DOCUMENT RESUME 



ED 272 73B CE 044 B59 

AUTHOR Cochrane, Nancy J.; And Others 

TITLE J. R. Kidd: An International Legacy of Learning. 

Monographs on Comparative and Area Studies in Adult 
Education • 

INSTITUTION British Columbia Univ., Vancouver. Center for 

Continuing Education.; International Council for 
Adult Education, Toronto (Ontario). 

REPORT NO ISBN-0-88843-134-1 

PUB DATE 86 

NOTE 3 3 Op. 

AVAILABLE FROM Centre for Continuing Education, University of 

British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, V6T 
2A4 , Canada ( $15 . 00 ) . 

PUB TYPE Reports - Research/Technical (143) — Collected Works 

- General (020) 

EDRS PRICE MF01/PC14 Plus Postage. 

DESCRIPTORS *Adult Education; *Adult Learning; Biographies; 

^Comparative Analysis; ^Con^arative Education; *Cross 
Cultural Studies; Foreign Couatries; Surveys 

IDENTIFIERS Canada; India; ^Kidd (J R) 

ABSTRACT 

This monograph deals with the many contributions of 
J. R. Kidd to adult learning on a world scale. In Part 1, a number of 
scholars, family members, and friends comment upon specific events 
they witnessed in Kidd's life« This anecdotal, biographical, and 
historical section begins with an introduction by Nancy J. Cochrane 
and personal accounts from Kidd*s two sisters, Mary Mclvor and Muriel 
Teager (**The Early years** )« The following chapters contain many 
different perceptions of Kidd*s career from colleagues, students, and 
friends. Chapters and authors are **The Gibson's Bjq>erience" (Lester 
R. Peterson); **J. R. Ridd*s Contribution to Film and Broadcasting in 
Adult Education** (Harry Campbell); **A Decade of Leadership in the 
Canadian Association for Adult Education (Gordon Selmaa); *Roby Kidd 
and the Move to Professional Status of Adult KJucation* (Gordon 
Selman); **Roby Kidd and the Caribbean** (Leonard Sfaorey and Esmond 
Ramesar); ** International Outreach** (S. C. Dutta); **Cultural and 
Humanitarian Activities Leading to an International Role and Focus** 
(W. A. Teager); **OISE: A Provincial College with a ffiadow on the 
World** (Reg Herman); **The Rajasthan Experience: Living and Learning 
in India** (James A. Draper); **The Growing Edge: Adult Education*s 
Social Role** (Evelyn M. Boyd and Somsak Boonyawiroj ) ; *Roby Kidd and 
UNESCO** (Malcolm Adiseshiah and John Cairns); and **The International 
Council for Adult Education: A Hallmark of Achievement in 
Communication** (Nancy J. Cochrane). Part 2, *A Cross-C«ltural 
Comparison of J. R. Kidd*s Contribution to Advlt Education* (Nancy J. 
Cochrane), is an assessment of Kidd*s impact upon the field of adult 
education and takes a more structured approach. Results oi survey 
comparing Kidd*s contribution to adult education in India and Canada 
are reported. This part represents a set of responses from 
colleagues, students, and close associates who assessed Kidd*6 work 
in adult education according to the issues of organization 
development, scope of contribution, adult learning theory, adult 
education practice, major aims and goals, cross-col tural approach, 
personal qualities/character, personal inf iBence/tmpact* and overall 
contribution. The appendix describes the study methodology and 
O uestionnaire findings. The document concludes with a selected 

ERlCibliography of Kidd*s published writings from 1942-1983 and an index 

u^Hfo monograph titles in the bibliography. (7LB) 



J.R. Kidd: 

An International 
Legacy of Learning 



Hi' 



■ ! 11.' 



MONOGRAPHS ON COMPARATIVE 
AND AREA STUDIES IN ADULT EDUCATION 



U.S. DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 

OHitfe ot Educationsi Research and Improvement 
EDUCATIONAL RESOURCES INFORMATION 

7 CENTER (ERIC) 

J This document has been reproduced as 
• received from the person or organization 

ortginating it 
C Minor changes have been made to improve 
reproduction quality 



• Points of view or opinions stated m this docu- 
ment do not necessarily represent official 
OERI position or poliCy 



"PERMISSION TO REPRODUCE THIS 
MATERIAL HAS BEEN GRANTED BY 




TO Ty£ EDUCATIONAL RESOURCES 
INFORMATION CENTER (ERIC)/' 



MONOGRAPHS PUBLISHED IN THIS SERIES 

• VOCATIONAL TRAINING IN LATiN AMERICA: 

A COMPARATIVE PERSPECTIVE by Oscar Corvalan V 
(1977) $5.00 

• TRAINING OF ADULT EDUCATORS IN EAST EUROPE 
edited by Jindra Kulich (1977) $6.00 

• ADULT EDUCATION AS A FIELD OF STUDY AND 
PRACTICE by Duncan D. Campbell (1977) $7.50 

• VILLAGE LITERACY PROGRAMMING IN PAKISTAN: 
A COMPARATIVE ABE STUDY WITH GUIDELINES 
by Florence E. Hesser (1978) $7.50 

• WORKERS' UNIVERSITIES IN YUGOSLAVIA: AN ADULT 
EDUCATION MODALITY by Esref Delalie (1979) $7.50 

• THE UNIVERSITIES AND ADULT EDUCATION IN EUROPE 
edited by Jindra Kulich and Wolfgang Kruger (1980) $9.50 

• ADULT EDUCATION IN FEDERAL REPUBLIC 
OF GERMANY by Joachim H. Knoll (1981) $6.50 

• ADULT EDUCATION IN CONTINENTAL EUROPE: 
AN ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY OF ENGLISH- 
LANGUAGE MATERIALS 1975-1979 
compiled by Jindra Kulich (1982) $12.00 

• ADULT EDUCATION IN CONTINENTAL EUROPE: 
AN ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY OF ENGLISH- 
LANGUAGE MATERIALS 1980-1982 

compiled by Jindra Kulich (1934) $15.00 

• ADULT AND NON-FORMAL EDUCATION INTHETHIRD 
WORLD: A JAMAICAN PERSPECTIVE by Hopeton 

L. A. Gordon (1985) $15.00 



Order from: Centre for Continuing Education Price of this volume: $15.00 

The University of British Columbia (mailing charges included) 
Vancouver, B.C., Canada V6T 2A4 



MOii®GRAPHS ON COMPARATIVE 
AND AREA STUDIES IN ADULT EDUCATION 



Jindra Kulich. General Editor 



CENTRE FOR CC»mNUING EDUCATION 
THE UNIVERSITY OF BRITISH COLUMBIA 
in co-operation with 
THE INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ADULT EDUCATION 



J.R. KIDD: 
AN INTERNATIONAL LEGACY 
OF LFiOOnNG 



NancY J. Cochrane 
and Associates 



Vancouver 1986 



This bronze medal was created by artist Dora de 
Pedery-Hunt It was commissioned by the Canadian 
Association for Adult Education on the occasion of the 
60th birthday of J. R. Kidd in 1975. 



To Eric David 



and my children 



6' 



ERIC 



ABOUT THE AUTHORS 



Nancy Cochrane was the project director of this study and editor 
of all of the text She was Roby Kidd's student -and research 
assistant in the doctoral prograni at OISE, and graduated in 1981. 
She is currently a health care research consultant at the University 
of British Columbia and several Vancouver hospitals. 

Paul Miller was a long-term friend of Roby and had assisted him 
to establish and raise funds for the ICAE, He is now President 
Emeritus and Professor at the Rochester Institute of Technology. 

Mary Mclvor is the elder sister of Roby Kidd by three years. 
She was a teacher in many one- room schools in The Okanagan, 
British Columbia. Victoria, B. C. has been her home for more 
than forty years. 

Muriel Teager is the younger sister of Roby Kidd by two and 
one half years. She pursued a career in the field of pre- school 
education and the public library, and presently lives in Ottawa, 

Lester Peterson was a highschool and long-term friend of Roby's 
in Gibson's Landing, B.C. He has taught in British Columbia 
schools until retirement, and has written The Gibson's Landing 
Story, The Cape Scott Story, and the Story of the Sechelt 
Nation. He was also founding president of the Gibson's Library 
Association and Elphinstone Pioneer Museum Society. 

Harry Campbell and Kurt Swinton assisted Roby in the 
establishment of The Overseas Book Centre. He was Director of 
the Toronto Public Library with a background of experience with 
UNESCO. He is now a consultant on an educational project in 
China, and he lives in Toronto, Ontario. 

Gordon Selman was a close personal friend of Roby for 30 years. 
He assisted him at the organizational stages of the ICAE, and the 
two CO- edited a book. Coming of Age, about adult education in 
Canada in the sixties. He has been President of CAAE, CAUCE, 



JO 



CASAE and Director of the Extension Department of U.B.C. 
Currently he is Associate Professor and Co-ordmator of Adult 
Education, the Faculty of Education. U.B.C. 

Leonard Shorey and Esmond Ramesar were close colleagues of 
Roby when he was a consultant to the University College of the 
West Indies for one year. Leonard is currc^ntly the Project 
Co-ordinator of the UWI/USAID Primary Education Project and 
Esmond is Associate Director of the Extra Mural Studies Unit, 
both at the University of West Indies. 

Shiva Dutta is Vice-President of the Indian Adult Education 
Association, and he currently lives in New Delhi, India. He was 
one of Roby's close colleagues at the Rajasthan University, the 
Indian University Association of Continuing Education, ASPBAE 
and the ICAE 

William Teager is Roby Kidd's brother-in-law and he succeeded 
Roby in 1965 as Interim Executive Director of the Overseas 
Institute of Canada. He then guided its metamorphosis into the 
Canadian Council for International Co-operation, and resigned in 
1968 to become National Director of the Overseas Book Centre. 

Reg Herman was appointed by Roby Kidd as the first Project 
Director in the Department of Adult Education. OISE. His last 
project with Roby was the production of two videotapes (Roby 
Kidd and the Heritage of Adult Education) at the University of 
Guelph. which documented significant and uniquely Canadian 
programs. 

James Draper is a Professor and one of the earliest members of 
the Department of Adult Education. OISE He was a close 
personal friend and colleague of Roby's on the Rajasthan Project, 
and many adult basic education and cross-cultural adult education 
projects and programs. 

Evelyn Boyd and Somsak Boonyawiroj were both graduate students 
of Roby Kidd and they completed their doctoral degrees in adult 
education at OISE in 1982. Evelyn is an Instructor in the English 
Department at Srinakharinwirot University, Songkhla, Thailand, and 
Somsak is Director of the Provincial Nonformal Education Center, 
Ranong, Thailand. 

Malcolm Adiseshiah was appointed by Roby Kidd as the founding 
Chairman of the ICAE, and he worked with Roby when he was 



11 



• • • 

ill 



Chairman of the UNESCO World Literacy Jury and Deputy 
Director General of UNESCO. He is currently a Member of 
Indian Parliament and the Chairman and Honorary Fellow of the 
Madras Institute of Development Studies in India. 

John Cairns was a close associate of Roby Kidd at ICAE and 
UNESCO when John was Director. Adult Education Division, 
UNESCO, Paris. He is currently Professor and Director of the 
Centre for International Programs, at the University of Guelph, 
Ontario. 



12 



PREFACE 



Interest in the comparative study of adult education has been 
growing in many parts of the world since the first conference on 
comparative adult education held at Exeter, U.S.A. in 1966. This 
interest was given further impetus by meetings held at Pugwash, 
Canada in 1970, Nordborg, Denmark in 1972, and Nairobi, Kenya 
in 1975. 

A number of international organizations, among these 
UNESCO, the International Bureau of Education, the International 
Congress of University Adult Education, the European Bureau of 
Adult Education, O.E.C.D.. the European Centre for Leisure and 
Education, the Council of Europe, and the International Council 
for Adult Education have contributed their share. 

A growing number of universities in all five continents 
established courses in comparative adult education. Many other 
universities encourage students to deal with comparative study or 
with the study of adult education abroad in major papers and 
theses. The literature in this area has increased considerably since 
the early 1960s both in support and as a result of this university 
activity. A number of valuable bibliographies were published, 
cataloguing the growing wealth of materials available in a number 
of languages. 

Most of the literature available on adult education in various 
countries can still be found primarily in articles scattered 
throughout adult education and social science journals, while most 
of the truly comparative studies remain unpublished master*s theses 
or doctoral dissertations. Until recently there was no commercial 
publisher enticing researchers to submit manuscripts of monographs 
dealing with comparative adult education and case studies of adult 
education in various countries, even though the need for such a 
publishing venture was stressed at a number of international 
meetings. It was with the intent to provide such service to the 
discipline and the field of adult education that the Centre for 
Continuing Education at The University of British Colimibia, in 
cooperation with the International Council for Adult Education, 
decided in 1977 to publish a series oF Monographs on 
Comparative and Area Studies in Adult Education., 

In 1984 a major English publishing house in the field of 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

About the Authors i 

Preface v 

PART ONE: INFLUENCE AND ACHIEVEMENT 

Foreword 3 

Nancy J. Cochrane: Introduction 6 

Muriel Teager and Mary Mclvor: The Early Years 14 

Lester R. Peterson: The Gibson's Experience 24 

Harry Campbell: J. R. Kidd's Contribution to Film 37 
and Broadcasting in Adult Education 

Gordon Selman: A Decade of Leadership in the CAAE 47 

Gordon Selman: Roby Kidd and the Move to Professional 71 
Status of Adult Education 

Leonard Shorey and Esmond Ramesar: Roby Kidd and 85 
the Caribbean 

S. C. Dutta: International Outreach 97 

W. A. Teager: Cultural and Humanitarian Activities 112 
Leading to an International Role and Focus 

Reg Herman: OISE: A Provincial College with 137 
a Window on the World 

James A. Draper: The Rajasthan Experience: 163 
Living and Learning in India 

15 



ERIC 



viii 



Evelyn M. Boyd and Somsak Boonyawiroj: The Growing 184 
Edge: Adult Education's Social Role 

Malcolm Adiseshiah and John Caims: Roby Kidd 192 
and UNESCO 

Nancy J. Cochrane: The International Council for 198 
Adult Education: A Hallmark of Achievement 
in Communication 

PART TWO: A CROSS-CULTURAL COMPARISON OF 
J. R. KJDD'S CONTRIBUTION TO ADULT EDUCATION 



Nancy J. Cochrane: The Interview Findings: 219 
Major Themes 

Nancy J. Cochrane: A Comparative Assessment 231 
of the Canadian Interviews 

Nancy J. Cochrane: A Comparative Assessment 244 
of the Indian Interviews 

Nancy J. Cochrane: J. R. Kidd: An International 264 
Legacy of Learning 

APPENDICES 

Appendix 1: Questionnaire Design 277 

Appendix lA: J. R. Kidd Questionnaire 278 

Appendix IB: Assessment of Validity of 283 
J. R. Kidd Questionnaire 

Appendix 2: Questionnaire Findings 285 

Appendix 3: Interview Procedure and Method of Analysis 302 

Selected Bibliography of J. R. Kidd's Published Writings 305 

Index to Monograph Titles 318 



IS 



PART ONE 
INFLUENCE AND ACHIEVEMENT 



17 



enthusiasm of a devoted practitioner, but viewing it as a "calling" 
or cause or, indeed, a social movement To Roby, adult education 
absorbed lesser "movements," development, community action, and 
social learning among them. Thus he could trace out its linkages, 
and did so continuously and automatically, which enabled him to 
lead others into fruitful networks not only among adult educators, 
but also among sodal and political institutions in general. He 
seemed especially adept at linking the field to governmental and 
industrial centres of policy and action. 

While Roby's intellect grew to encompass mainly a world 
view, it is remarkable how he kept his base in Toronto at the 
Ontario Institute for Studies in Education (OISE), maintaining all 
the while his basic practice as a teacher and leader of young 
people, I suspect that not only did he love to work with young 
minds, but that he also recognized that adult education, given its 
motley and sporadic manpower background, needed very much to 
stabilize and generalize dependable methods of preparing people 
for the future. That he remained thus a "master" in the best 
sense, and for such a long period in Toronto, indicates a 
remarkable steadfastness and permanence that balanced against his 
peripatetic interests. 

Roby was a genius at involving others! Wherever he went, 
regardless of his pathway, he left a wake of individuals and 
groups with jobs to be done. It was not always convenient to be 
thus involved — I know! — but Roby's utterly genuine way of 
telling you "I need your help," and especially your awareness that 
he was going beyond his own limits, asking for no relief, 
combined to overcome reluctance to join the fray. Perhaps his 
genius on this front, however, sprang more from his manner of 
defining the tasks as being on the cutting edge of new 
breakthroughs, and as tasks, however local and menial, of 
worldwide significance. 

Along with his genius for helping others to become 
involved, Roby knew how to identify and use levers of advantage, 
even of power. He seemed to know that no amount of local and 
more menial activity could yield a world system of adult education 
if it were to spring alone from the grassroots of associations and 
institutions. Thus he veered from such localism to councils of 
world authority, e.g. the United Nations and its agencies, 
government conmiissions, and councils in capital cities, and 
governmental officials who could be stretched into seeing that what 
they were trying to accomplish was essentially adult education at 
its best This almost personal penetration of power and networks, 
in education to be sure, but also in broader fields, always with 
more involvements along the way, increasingly made Roby into a 
statesman. And he was growing in such a stature to the very end- 



Roby's approach to the Community College movement in the 
USA, and his involvement of whole new personages in the 
International Coimcil of Adult Education are but two examples. 

Roby Kidd had an incredible capacity to remember, — 
associates, agencies, events, professional materials and happenings, 
experiments tiied, experiments failed. Whatever was wonh knowing 
about, and remembering, in adult education and beyond, Roby 
knew. He had catalogued in his mind, surely more than any 
other, the present state and the potentials of adult education in 
the modem world. And he seemed to do so, not by the 
librarian's or registrar's skills, but by a constant friendship with 
the people who were plsmning and doing the tasks of adult 
education. 

In Roby's presence you knew that you were with a "very 
good human being." You enjoyed him: and knowing how to listen 
well and raise a pertinent question he, without contrivance, 
displayed always a genuinely felt interest in you. Always a person 
of great resolve a:id unusual drives, he could be said to be 
single-minded in his purposes. Roby possessed the quite rare 
capacity, and charm too, I suppose, of a renewing interest and 
exuberance in the interests of otiier people. Of course, this 
enabled a wide and easy acquaintance vdth people of so many 
cultures and languages; because he was so genuinely at home with 
them that they, so quickly it always seemed to me, rallied to 
him. 

Finally, he took the risks and absorbed the inconveniences 
of going out into the world to propagate an international system 
of adult learning. We have had, and now have, outstanding 
scholars in adult education; and Roby was one of them whose 
writings and conference testimonies continue to influence the field. 
But ^ Roby Kidd went personally out of his scholar's haunts to 
fashion, for the first time, a system of persons, institutions, and 
events that now constitute what, still dimly seen perhaps, is the 
beginning of a world process for continuous social learning. Roby 
Kidd became a "wandering scholar" in the best sense. Indeed, he 
wandered in two worlds — adult education and in the world in its 
modem reality — and his works and memory demand that all 
those whose lives he touched and enhanced should strive to 
sustain and augment what Roby Kidd so brilliantly and valiantly 
contributed in its establishment 

Paul A. Miller, 

President Emeritus and Professor, 

Rochester Institute of Technology, New York 

Letter dated September 14, 1983. 



20 



INTRODUCTION 



Nancy J. Cochrane 

In the process of learning, as in creating, men and 
women are at their best, particularly perhaps in the 
quest to reach mutual understanding (Kidd, 1979). 

Learning was the focus of fascination and work for James Robbins 
Kidd, a Toronto professor who devoted his life to the study and 
practice of adult education in Canada and throughout the world. 
While serving his profession, he died on March 21st, 1982. at the 
age of sixty- six. 

J. R. Kidd. or "Roby" as he was affectionately known, was 
a man of international stature and respect, not only because of his 
extensive contribution to adult education, but also for his 
leadership in the cultiual development of Canada. If one traces 
the major events of this man's life, there is a remsirkable parallel 
with the evolution of Canada as a nation; it is difficult to 
separate the history of this man and the history of this nation. 
The context in which Roby grew as a child and young man 
provides the clues to the powerful influences that moulded him. 
He was unique. He was not a passive observer of the social 
events of his country; he was a centre stage participant At the 
same time, he often performed, quietiy but powerfully, backstage 
in his country's rich cultural evolution. 

The spirit of Roby Kidd that lives on is that of a young 
man inflamed with hopes and dreams, but above all. with action. 
As adult education in Canada struggled through the intricacies of 
transformation, Roby took a central role in working for its 
professional status, and helped to shape it according to Canadian 
social needs. He was one of thie pioneers in his field. Like other 
pioneers in adult education, he assisted many cultures and nations 
to respond to the learning needs of adults. 

Roby Kidd helped Canada to move toward its own 
multi-cultiiral sense of identity. Roby saw Canada as a nation in 
movement toward self- actualization, and as a home for all other 
nationalities. He believed that the search for a sense of selfhood 
of a nation's peoples, working toward a common goal, might be 



21 



realized in and through the goals of adult education. His 
professional goals were rooted in his humanity. His personal life 
and work intermingled, and they expressed his meaning of adult 
education. He believed that adult education and mutual 
understanding shared common ground. 

He travelled from country to country to further international 
understanding of adult education. Roby did not see cultures where 
he visited and lived, he saw people. Because he saw their 
potential, and because he believed that adults had the ability to 
^cam, and to direct their learning towards their own destinies, he 
>vas able to help them to respond to the challenges of a changing 
world. 

He had many close colleagues and friends. Gordon Selman, 
a long-t3rm colleague and professor of adult education at the 
University of British Columbia, described the sentiments of many 
thousands of people when he concluded his part in the memorial 
service with these words: 

He has left us too soon. He may have been ready, 
but we aren't We feel sadness because we wanted 
him to have more time . . . We feel admiration 
because we marvel at what he accomplished. We feel 
pride in this Canadian because of what he did as a 
Citizen of the World. We feel gratitude for all that 
he accomplished on behalf of the things that he and 
we cared about We feel love because, most of all, 
we loved him (Selman, 1982). 



Review of J. R. Kidd's Career 

James Robbins Kidd was bom in Wapella, Saskatchewan, in 1915, 
and spent his formative years in Vancouver, British Columbia, and 
in Gibson's Landing (now known as Gibsons). From 1935 to 1945 
he worked as Secretary of the Young Men's ChrisUan Association 
in Montreal and Ottawa, and then as veteran counsellor for the 
YMCA in New York from 1945 to 1947. He continued his 
education as a part- time student at Sir George Williams College 
in Montreal, where he received his Bachelor of Arts Degree in 
1938. Still as a part- time student, he completed his Master of 
Arts Degree in 1943 at McGill University, and his Doctor of 
Education Degree in 1947 at Columbia University in New York. 
At the time, Canada had no doctoral programs in adult education 
but this situation later changed when Roby was part of raising 
this growing field to professional status. 

Having been identified by Ned Corbett, the first Director of 



22 



8 



the Canadian Association for Adult Education, as one of the most 
promising adult educators of his time, Roby was invited to join 
Corbett at the CAAE. Here Roby began his fourteen years of 
work, first as Associate Director from 1947 to 1951, and then as 
Director from 1951 to 1961. 

From 1961 to 1965, Roby was Secretary- Treasurer of the 
Social Sciences and Humanities Research Councils of Canada, 
During that same time period, he served as Executive Secretary 
and CO- founder of the Overseas Book Centre and Overseas 
Institute. 

The magnitude of Roby's comirutments became evident in 
these positions: organizer of the first National Conference of 
Continuing Professional Education in Canada; Program Chairman of 
the Canadian Conference on Education from 1956 to 1961; 
National Chairman of Canadiaxi Labour Week from 1958 to 1960; 
President of the Second World Conference on Adult Education, 
held in Montreal in 1960; Chairman of the UNESCO International 
Conmiittee for the Advancement of Adult Education from 1961 to 
1966; National President of International Co-operation Year, 
Canada, from 196< to 1965; Honorary President of the Canadian 
Union of Students from 1964 to 1965; President, Adult Education 
Division, of the World Confederation Organization of the Teaching 
Profession: and member of the Canadian Centenar>' Council from 
1966 to 1967. 

Roby saw the link between adult education, art. and culture. 
For example, he organized the Canadian Film Awards and the 
Canadian Radio Awards through the CAAE and Canadian Film 
Institute from 1947 to 1965 (Topalovich, 1984). He was also an 
active member and promoter of the Canadian Film Institute's 
National Board during that same time period. 

Roby had already established a reputation as an international 
expert in adult education by the time the Carnegie Corporation 
appointed him consultant to the University of the West Indies 
from 1956 to 1957 (Kidd, 1958). The Ford Foundation also 
recognized his consulting skills when he served as a UNESCO 
adviser at the Universitj' of Alaska. In the short space of about 
three weeks, Roby travelled 7,000 miles within Alaska and 
compiled a report of his work in consultation with Paul McGee 
and Julius Nolte. Another notable consultation project was at the 
University of Rajasthan, India, with the Indo-Colombo Plan from 
1965 to 1966. Having proven his ability to succeed in his 
cross-cultural undertakings, he was appointed Jury Member by the 
Director General of the UNESCO World literacy Awards 
Committee from 1970 to 1982, as the North American 
representative, and then as Chairman of the UNESCO Evaluation 
Committee of the Experimental World Literacy Project from 1974 



23 



to 1975. His outreach aiid cultivation of friendly relationships 
among colleagues and others in almost every country was 
particularly evident in his cultural and educational exchange m\h 
China beginning in 1965 while he was en route to India (Kidd, 
1980). 

Concurrent with his university appointment as first Chairman 
of the Department of Adult Education at the Ontario Institute for 
Studies in Education (OISE) from 1966 until 1972, he established 
the first Comparative Studies program in Canada, and attracted 
international fellows and students for graduate study. Roby also 
became Project Director of the Canadian Studies Office at OISE 
from 1969 to 1973, and Chairman of the Member Advisory 
Committee of the Ontario Educational Communications Authority 
^OECA) from 1971 to 1977. Finally, in 1982, the year of his death, 
he was appointed Professor Emeritus at the Department of Adult 
Education, OISE, University of Toronto. With the growing number 
of commitments and accomplishments in adult education, his ToUey 
Medal, awarded in 1973 by Syracuse University, was well earned. 

Many study participants who took part in the work dealt 
with in Part 2 of this book, said that one of the great 
monuments to Roby's insatiable spirit as the builder of institutions 
was his establishment of the first International Council for Aduli 
Education. At the time it was created, it represented the only 
international body of adult educators organized with a voluntary 
membership and service. Roby founded the ICAE in 1973, served 
as the first Secretary General imtil 1979, and then as Treasurer 
until his death. 

Roby loved teaching; and throughout his life he taught in 
universities and colleges, and conducted seminars in all parts of 
the world. For all his scholarly accomplishments, he was awarded 
no fewer than five honorary doctorates from Canadian Universities, 
including: the University of British Columbia in 1961; Concordia 
University — formerly Sir George Williams University — in 1970; 
Trent University in 1975 Laurentian University in 1980; ar.d York 
University in 1981. Queens University officially requested him to 
accept the sixth honorary doctorate in June 1982 but Roby never 
received the degree because of his death in March of that bzmc 
year. 

The distinction of which Roby was most proud was the 
Order of Canada, awarded in 1975 in recognition of his 
extraordinary contribution to Canadian life and culture. Shortly 
following his death, he was named a Fellow of OISE, an 
appropriate tribute for one who had transformed the meaning of 
learning and adult education theory in this institute renowned for 
its innovative approach to research and graduate studies. 

Roby was the first Canadian citizen to earn a doctorate in 



2'i 



10 



adult educatioa He is also remembered as a pioneer who worked 
hard to promote programming and government policy-making for 
adult education in the international world. Roby was internationally 
renowned through the publication of more than twenty books, and 
at leas^ one thousand articles, papers, reports, and pamphlets He 
founded and edited the first international journal on adult 
educauon. Convergence, which was published in four languages At 
the time of his death, he was editor of Adult, Recurrent, " and 
Lifelong Education, a section in the first International Encyclopedia 
of Education. 

Roby dedicated his time to exploring a variety of innovative 
ways to educate adults and to expand the scope of, and access to 
learmng opportunities which could emancipate women and men in 
Canada and abroad, rie sought peace through communication in 
adult learning. Tributes to his international legacy of learning have 
won him world acclaim from distinguished dignitaries. 



The Need for a Review of the Life and Work of Roby Kidd 

There are lessons to be learned from each and every individual's 
mark upon history. This is especially true of the complex and 
multi- dimensional pursuits of Roby Kidd. As the artist draws a 
personal profile, the demographer a map of the known terrain, 
and the musician finds harmony in the message of scale, so the 
scholar searches for meaning in the unfolding of a human life 
pe need for a written review of Roby's life and work arises 
from the need for an appraisal of the growing field of adult 
education and its interaction with international events. Any culture 
has an obligation to review its members' past achievements in 
order to build upon their structures that are part of ' our 
avilization. 

Adult education is not a new field of public life, but it is 
a relaUvely new profession that has grown to considerable 
proportions because of the contribution made by Roby Kidd. 
Consequently, it is necessary to trace the events and methods of 
Roby's achievements in order to understand his impact on adult 
education and Canadian life. 

In Part 1, a number of scholars, close family members, and 
fnends were invited to comment upon specific events that they 
had witnessed in Roby's life. Beginning with the personal accounts 
from Robys two sisters, Mary Mclvor and Muriel Teager. there is 
a narrative tone to the beginning of a saga. The * following 
chapters contain many different perceptions of Roby's career from 
some of his colleagues (who provide more of an academic 
approach;, students (who show the outcome of Roby's influence 



25 



11 



upon them), and close personal friends (who do not apologize for 
their subjectivity!). For this reason. Part 1 is anecdotal, 
biographical, and historical. Supportive material for this section has 
been drawn from personal accounts, archival documents, Roby's 
publications and speeches, and his personal dialogue with the 
respective authors. 7 his vnusual selection of perspectives and events 
is neither definitive nor comprehensive; nor is the review of 
Robys mark upon the history of adult education which is briefly 
sketched in Part 2 What is intended here is to offer an 
overview of J. R. Kidd's life, a framework for understanding Part 
2. Other reviews and other books should follow to^ adequately 
explain the complexities and richness of "the Kidd story." 
Biographies and reviews of othei great Canadians also may help 
illuminate their relationship wiih Roby in their efforts to build a 
Canadian nation (McLeish, 1978). 

Part 2 is an assessment of Roby's impact upon the field of 
adult education, and takes a much more structured c^pproach. 
Research for this project was conducted over a two-year period 
Kghty-two study participants from Canada, India, and UNESCO 
Headquarters were interviewed, and then completed questiormaires 
pertaining to a set of specific issues related to Roby Kidd's 
contribution to adult education. Part 2 is not intended to be 
resource information so much as a set of responses from 
colleagues, students, and close associates of Roby who knew him 
for extended periods of time. They have assessed his work in 
adult education according to the issues of organization development, 
scope of contribution, adult learning theory, adult education 
practice, major aims and goals, cross-cultural approach, personal 
qualities/character, personal influence/impact, and overall 
contribution. The Append^.x describes the methodology of the study 
and questionnaire findings. 

Parts 1 and 2 are distinctly different ways of revie>ying a 
person's life history. The link in common is that they primarily 
draw upon an oral history methodology. 

While the multi- authored set of readings in Part 1 
represents a smaller number of perspectives compared to Part 2, 
the second half of the book indicates the magnitude of the effect 
of Roby's work as viewed by a wider group of experts. A more 
intensive study of each of the major issues studied in Part 2 is 
recommended, because the breadth of material and history that is 
covered in that section demands closer attention as to how Roby 
effected change in the field of adult education, and the events 
that constituted his strategy for change. 

Roby Kidd was an exemplary educator, author, and world 
consultant who felt at home in foreign lands and with diverse 
cultural groups. His acts of diplomacy as a buiiuei of instirations 



12 



can be examined in light of the lessons that can be learned about 
the process of organizational and individual change. His application 
and consolidation of theories from the sciences and humanities 
concerning adult learning were focused upon the goals of 
individual development and the improvement of society. It is 
appropriate that this study should include a comparative assessment 
of Roby's work in Canada and in one developing country, India, 
because he sought the advancement of comparative studies 
programs and methods with regard to adult education. He believed 
that a plurality of methods and views would be required to 
conduct a comparative study (Kidd, 1975), and so it was with 
respect for his philosophy and value of oral history that this book 
was written. Educators from other cultures have been inviicd to 
join in the dialogue about Roby's life in Part 1, because persons 
from every culture formed part of the very large professional 
family in his life. Above all, the purpose of this study is to 
awaken an understanding about Roby's meaning of learning, and 
its place in the span of human development 

This book is not a record of one man's career, because a 
comprehensive examination would require individual studies for 
each chapter topic Those contained in this work represent a small 
sample of the highlights of Roby's impressive lifework. There are. 
no doubt, some gaps in this history because the extent of his 
trajectories are not easily traced, and they would require a great 
deal more time and research. 

The problem with any assessment of a person's life is, as 
one study participant advised, that it is perhaps impossible to be 
objective about something inherently subjective, and hence to 
quantify the unquantifiable! Nevertheless, we can leam through a 
variety of methods of perspective and discourse, and that is why 
this inquiry is best conducted by more than one person, and with 
more than one method of research. The plurality of methods and 
authors may prompt the reader into an ongoing search to 
understand a history, a person, and indeed our very selves. The 
meaning of learning affects all of us, and the meaning that Roby 
brought to learning invokes a deeply humanitarian message that, if 
understood, could affect the course of future history. 



References 

Kidd, J. R. (1958). Adult education in the Caribbean: the 
extra-mural department of the University College of the 
West Indies. Toronto: Canadian Association for Adult 
Education. 

(1975). Comparative adult education: The first decade. In C. 



27 



13 



Bennett, J. R. Kidd, & J. Kulich. Comparative studies in 
adult education: An anthology. Syracuse: Syracuse University. 

(1979). Tlie OTHER Salzburg Seminar. Learning. Z (3). 

11-12. 

(1980). China: A model for development, a review of some 

reports on China and assessing China's contribution to 

development Convergence li (4). 78-82. 
McLeish, J. A. B. (1978). A Canadian for all seasons. Toronto: 

Lester and Orpen. 
Selman, G. (1982). Transcribed tape-recording of a presentation at 

the J. R. Kidd memorial service, at the Ontario Institute for 

Studies in Education, Toronto. 
Topalovich, M. (1984). Academy of Canadian cinema. The 

Canadian Film Awards. Toronto: Stoddard Publishing, 

Division of General Publishers. 



28 



CHAPTER 1 



THE EARLY YEARS 

Muriel Teager and Mary Mclvor 

I am a part of all that I have met 

Yet all experience is an arch where- through 

Gleams that untravelled world 

Whose margin fades 

Forever and forever when I move. 

Ulysses - Alfred, Lord Tennyson 

If we had asked our brother, James Robbins Kidd, what made 
him tick, we would have heard that familiar chortle, then he 
would probably have brushed the question aside saying he had 
never given it a thought Achievers such as Roby seldom take 
time to think "Who am I?" or "What am I?" Roby was much 
more interested in "Who are you?" or "What can you and I do 
to further this idea?" 

Biographers, philosophers, psychiatrists, psychologists, 
sociologists, humanists, and moralists all seek the answers to the 
motivation, behaviour, and achievements of individuals. Is it an 
elusive mystery, a happenstance of genes, circumstances of 
environment, opportunities or challenges met, an open door, or 
human influences? Whether or not a biographer draws any 
conclusions, he or she must consider all of these possibilities. 
With this in mind we, Roby's sisters Mary and Muriel, have tried 
to recall and record some of these elements. As much of this is 
recall, complete accuracy is not entirely possible, particularly for 
the early years, because we were both very young. However, we 
have tried to verify where we could and where it was most 
important to do so. 



The Robbins Family 

In the United States, there is a very active Robbins Genealogy 
Society. We have studied letters from them as well as the 



29 



15 



findings of a branch scKiety called The Ancestors, Mayflower 
Descent and Descendants of Benjamin Robbins, the First Settler 
on Cheboque Point, Yarmouth, Nova Scotia. The records of these 
two sources are most interesting and revealing. In 1638 Nicholas 
Robbins, a shoemaker from the Chaime! Islands, was granted land 
by Miles Standish of the Mayflower, and settled in Cambridge, 
Massachusetts. Nearly three hundred years later, in the year 1923, 
our grandfather George Robbins bought land and settled in 
Gibson*s Landing, British Columbia. He, too, was a shoemaker. 
The Genealogy Sodet>' has traced the English line of the Robbins 
back to 1377 in England and the Jersey Islands, and back to 750 
A.D. in Italy. 

The Robbins apparently came to Canada in about 1762, 
when a certain Benjamin Robbins and his family emigrated from 
the more settled areas of the east coast of the New World, to 
Cheboque Point, just outside what is now Yarmouth, Nova Scotia, 
They were pioneers of pioneers, and brought few worldly goods 
with them. As others joined their small commimity, they and their 
neighbours created a fulfilling way of life. In later years and later 
generations, they became the boat builders and tanners cf a 
bustling Maritime province. 



The Kidd Family 

The following excerpt, written by Dr. George EL Kidd, appeared 
in The Derry, a publication named for an area in Beckwith 
County, just west of Ottawa, Ontario: 

At the time that the first party of Highlanders was 
selecting its farms among the maple woods of the 
Derry, still another family from another part of the 
British Isles was on the Atlantic making its way to 
Canada. Its head was Andrew Kidd, arid he was 
accompanied by his wife and several children. They 
came from Ireland, from the village of Coon, in the 
parish of Leighlinbridge, Wexford This family left the 
parish in April 1818. The voyage was a terrible one, 
lasting 21 weeks. The oldest boy. John, was 20 years 
of age. He had with him his young wife. Either 
while still at sea or immediately after landing, she 
gave birth to a boy. The child siu^ived but the 
Mother died. Jonn left the baby with a woman in 
Quebec City and together with the rest of the party 
proceeded inland. As soon as he had established a 
home, he returned to Quebec and claimed his son. 



30 



16 



John remarried in a year or so. His new wife was Margaret 
Garland, whose family had been neighbours of the Kidds in 
Ireland, ^and who had come out to the Derry a year after the 
Kidds. "Together, John and Margaret walked over the twenty mile 
bush trail to Perth for the marriage ceremony." Margaret and 
John were our great grandparents. Their son John, who was one 
of fourteen children, was a grandfather to Roby's generation. 

John, our grandfather, became a teacher and moved to 
Western Ontario where he met and married Betsy Gibson of 
Grimsby. They settled for a Ume in Walkerton, in the Township 
of Brant, before trekking out to the prairie to settle in the 
Fairmede District of Saskatchewan in 1884. 

Most pioneers faced daily challenges to their survival with 
courage, fortitude, and great initiative, diligently pursuing a better 
future for their offspring. They had visions but their feet were 
solidly on the ground, and working for their own and their 
neighbours' needs, they gradually moved towards their goals. 

An interesting feature in the growth and development of 
these new communities shows the Kidds and the Robbins alike 
becoming involved in establishing schools, churches, stores, and 
post offices. In almost every record one finds that a Kidd or a 
Robbins' home was used until a building could be constructed and 
maintained by the community. 

From information gleaned from Margaret Kidd's This is 
their Life, a story of the pioneers of Fairmede and adjacent 
Districts, the following has come to light John, our grandfather 
was, as I have said, a teacher, and also a land assessor for the 
Township of Brant in Ontario. When he moved west, he was, 
among other things, the scribe for the district, who was often 
called upon to write important letters and to fill in forms for 
homesteaders. He helped to organize the school district and served 
as secretary. Political meetings were held in his home where 
candidates of both parties met and explained their platform. In 
1885, he and grandmother operated a post office in their home 
and. to accommodate their neighbours, stocked a small supply of 
groceries for their convenience when collecting their mail. John 
was Justice of the Peace whose home served as a court house 
and. each fall in the eariy years, two men of the North West 
Mounted Police detachment were stationed there to watch for 
dreaded prairie fires. 

Grandfather was instrumental in forming the Agricultural 
Society for the district, presenting two acres of land on which to 
build a hall, and serving as Secretary- Treasurer of the society 
until his death. He was a breeder of pure- bred short horn cattle, 
and the first Agricultural Fair was held on his land. His Anglican 
neighbours also gathered in his home for services until they were 



17 



able to build a church. 

Betsy Gibson, John's wife and our grandmother, came to 
Ontario with her family from Peterhead, Scotland. According to 
Mother, she was a "dour little Scot" who could stand up to 
anyone without being intimidated. All were welcome in her home, 
and not the least of these were roving Indians who came to stare 
in the window, full of curiosity, and even to walk in uninvited 
because tiie door was never locked. Nor did they leave 
empty-handed, because grandmother knew their needs. She was 
often called upon as a midwife to the women of the community; 
indeed, it is said she brought more children into the world than 
many a doctor. 

Our father was the youngest of twelve children, growing up 
on his parents' farm, and ha^mg the good fortune to attend 
school for a few years. At uome point he went back east to 
Grimsby, where his maternal grandparents, an older brother, and 
several relatives lived. While there, he took a business course. 
According to Mother, and prior to his venture east, his older 
brothers took him to an area on the prairie where land was 
available, built him a lean-to, and left him to camp alone for a 
week or so. He thus acquired his first piece of property. 
Apparently this system was common in the 1880s. In 1901, he and 
his brother- in- law founded a hardware business, Kidd and 
Clements, in Wapella. Because we were very young when our 
father died, we have had to rely on people who knew him or 
worked with him, to leam what kind of man he was. We 
understand that he was admired and well respected; that he could 
turn his hand to anything; that he could not turn dovra any 
request for help; and that he had an insatiable drive and desire 
to see progress. A. P. Hanley, former mayor and a successful 
hardware man in Drumheller. Alberta claimed father "was the 
most honest man I ever knew. He was an innovator and an 
extremely successful salesman and businessman. He taught me 
everything I know." In a recent letter from our parents' friend. 
Lena Body, similar sentiments are expressed. "He was such a 
splendid salesman, and respected by all for his honesty." Lena 
goes on to say "that he sold farms on crop payments so that the 
farmers paid accordingly ..." Going through some business 
records of our father's, we found transactions which revealed that 
in a number of instances he had bought farms that people were 
losing, so that they could continue to live [on them] and work 
them as if they were their own. He never sold Uiem. and it was 
many years later, long after he had died, and after Second World 
War, that several of these grateful people were able to partially 
reimburse mother, who then closed the deals as paid. 

About the time that Kidd and Clements was being 



18 



established, our mother, Muriel Robbins, moved from Nova Scotia 
to Winnipeg with her parents and her only sister. She had 
finished high school in Yarmouth and decided to take a secretarial 
course. Her first and only job was as secretary to Mr. Zingg, 
editor of the Wapella Newspaper. Soon after she arrived in 
Wapella, the proprietor of the hotel learned she could play the 
piano, and asked if she would play for the hymn-sing he 
organized for travellers on Sunday nights. She agreed. Here, 
faSier, who had gone to the hotel to meet a business associate, 
was introduced to her. Romance blossomed, and the marriage 
which followed lasted thirteen happy years. Their first child, a 
son, lived only a few days, but John, Mary, Robbins (later 
nicknamed Roby by a high school friend) and Muriel thrived. 
James Robbins Kidd, to give him his full name, was bom May 4, 
1915. 

Living in a small prairie town provided many interesting 
diversions such as trips to Uncle Bob*s farm in the 
McLaughlin— the second car in the district— also skating, croquet, 
and other games. 

John and Roby had a typical boys* "gang" in Wapella, and 
being niral children the play was often farm-oriented Threshing 
was a common theme, and the boys used wagons and boxes on 
wagons as make-believe farm machinery. Another theme was Fair 
Days and again crates served as booths to display produce and to 
sell lemonade. One of the most imaginative and time-consuming 
activities was the construction of the Great Lakes System. This 
was dug in the sandy soil of the back yard and filled with many 
pails of water carried from the rain barrel at the side of the 
house. In winter there was a home-made curling rink, the curling 
stones being cement- filled jam tins that had curved iron rods 
stuck in the cement for handles. Then, as Mary points out, "there 
were always books. The last year we lived in Wapella, 
Grandfather Robbins visited us and spent many hours reading to 
Roby who was an avid listener." 

In 1919 the Kidd family planned to move to Vancouver, 
British Columbia. The night mother and father were waiting for a 
train to take them to Vancouver, where our father expected to 
buy a business and a house, father became ill. The malady turned 
out to be pneumonia, and because there were no miracle drugs in 
those days, it was a losing battle. Father died while still in his 
prime. 

Mother felt very much alone. Her mother had died in 
Winnipeg a few years earlier, her father had gone farther west to 
settle in Gibson's Landing, and her only sister, Katherine, had 
gone to China as a teacher- missionary with the Anglican Church. 
To go to Vancouver could mean better opportunities for her 



33 



19 



children as they were growing up, and she had her father and a 
few good friends there, to whom she could turn for advice and 
assurance. So after father's death, mother carried out the plans the 
two of them had made together. 

Our parents had both been very active members of that 
thriving town of Wapella. Father had had many business ventures. 
Apart from the Kidd and Clement stores in Wapella and 
Rocanville, he had the agencies for all the large farm implement 
and farm machinery manufacturers, he had sold McLaughlin cars, 
insurance, and dealt in real estate. He had had municipal 
responsibilities, and served as Mayor for several terms. He had 
supported and promoted the work of the Canadian Red Cross. He 
was an avid curler, and was actively involved with promoting 
sports of all kinds. During the 1914-1918 conflict, he had helped 
carry on many absentees* businesses, and looked out for the 
families of these men while they were away. Indeed, he took on 
so many responsibilities, that he wearied himself and hadn't the 
physical strength to survive that fatal pneumonia. 

Like most women in small communities at that time. Mother 
was busy too. She had been brought up a Baptist, but she was 
undaunted when she found there was no such church in Wapella. 
She always maintained that she could worship her God in any 
setting, so she gladly joined the Presbyterian Church, became their 
organist, taught Sunday School, and helped form an orchestra. 

When we moved, it was to the new and exciting 
Shaughnessy district of Vancouver. There were dirt roads, no 
sidewalks or boulevards, lots and lots of vacant lots, and new 
houses going up everywhere. We loved to explore these homes, 
particularly if there was a good view from them. When it was 
not foggy, we could see the flash of the Point Atkinson 
Lighthouse in Burrard Inlet 

Roby and Mary formed a club along with some friends. 
The clubhouse was dug out of the ground in a vacant lot; 
potatoes were roasted there, and meetings were held. One of the 
prerequisites for joining the club was to be able to ride down the 
41st Avenue hill to Kerrisdale. on our bikes, using no hands. 

One day Roby came home from school after being in a 
fight — the only time we can remember him physically fighting 
anyone. He always stood up for the underdog, not because it 
made him feel superior, but because he could always see the 
good in people. On this particular day, a boy from his class, a 
rather fat, efTeminate boy, was being pestered by some of the 
other children. Roby "persuaded" them to "lay off," and life was 
much better for his classmate after that 

In the Vancouver years, we went to the First Baptist 
Church, and John and Roby joined the YMCA. The family never 



20 



had much money but we don't remember that that was a bad 
experience. Everyone helped in some way. Roby delivered the 
Vancouver Daily Province and the Pictorial Review Magazine, 
using an old bicycle that was kept together with hay wire and 
frequent stops at a garage for free air. Roby lived enthusiastically. 
Going to a movie one Saturday with a friend, and not knowing 
Roby would be there too, we suddenly heard his unmistakable 
gufTaw of laughter. 

When summer holidays arrived we went to Grandfather 
Robbins* home at Gibson's Landing — now officially renamed 
Gibsons — on Howe Sound. It was a lovely place to spend the 
summer. We had a big old row-boat that we called "Kidd*s 
Chariot," and many an early morning we would row the Chariot 
to Keats Point and Salmon Rock for fishing. Afterwards, we 
would land on the beach and fry fresh trout for breakfast over a 
small fire. One day John and Roby caught a thirty- five pound 
salmon on their line. Too big to lift into the boat, they managed 
to row to shore and land it on the beach after playing with it 
for a very long time. 

Besides rowing and fishing there was sailing. We had a 
home-made sail and used an oai for a combined tiller^ rudder. 
Our boat had no keel so it was impossible to tack into the wind; 
nevertheless, we would sail happily with it, and when we had 
gone as far as we dared, we would furl the sail and row back 
home. 

Our summers were happy and active, with swimming at all 
hours of the day and even at night, in the moonlight, or when 
there was phosphorescence in the water. There were picnics, hikes, 
weekly concerts, and annual regattas. Competition at these regattas 
was keen between Gibson's Landing competitors and those from 
Grantham's Landing and Hopkins' Landing. Everyone appreciated 
the war canoe demonstrations and races put on by the Y boys 
from the nearest YMCA camp. 

Sports of all kinds interested Roby. We played softball and 
croquet Roby did a lot of skating, and played hockey. At 
Gibson's Landing an improvised hoop was set up for basketball; 
and a marvellous game of cricket was also devised One year 
John made a high jimip stand and a pit in the back yard, and 
we all practised for the Olympics. In later years, watching sport 
of any kind on TV \v ith Roby was an active rath er than a 
passive experience. 

One of our friends, Lester Sugarman, had access to his 
father's movie projector and films, and we enthusiastically set 
about making a theatre in Lester's basement Boxes - and planks 
made benches, an old white sheet, scrounged from Mother's scrap 
bag, made a curtain. Admission was five cents, but no one was 



21 



ever turned away for lack of a few pennies. We showed 
wonderful old silents, with music from a gramophone for 
background. The most memorable film was that imagmative old 
classic "The Lost World" - our introducUon to prehistoric 
monsters. Roby's long love affair with the silver screen must have 
had its beginning in our little theatre. . t.. t. ^ 

Although we were not the first family m the neighbourhood 
to have a radio - indeed it was many years after its advent 
before we did — we were, however, the first to have a crystal 
set The boys set it up in their bedroom. A copper wire was 
stretched across the room and through the bed springs to act as 
an aerial. We listened on an old telephone earpiece, and will 
always remember the thrill of hearing faint voices and music. We 
have no idea how far away the nearest station was, but suspect it 
was Seattle, Washington. t. , . ^ 

One Christinas, Roby acquired a photography kit Together 
Muriel and Roby blacked out the kitchen, and set up a dark 
room so we could develop our own prints. We had the use of 
our mother's camera, and we would head off on Saturdays for 
Stanley Park, Little Mountain, or Capilano Canyon to take 

pictures. ,^ ^ 

Sometimes at Gibson's Landing, Roby would disappear for a 
day at a time. Once when he came home he said he had been 
thinking about war. He had made up his mind never to go to 
wax, even if it me^ . iSonmenL He would do everything 

possible to work for pe out never would he take up arms. 

Mother was probaoiy the most influential person in all our 
lives She was a very wise, intelligent person to whom we owed a 
great debt of respect and love. She guided and encouraged us in 
all of our endeavours. In a subtle but direct way, she imparted to 
each of us the idea that service to our fellow man was the 
highest goal one could attain. Reaching that goal could only be 
achieved through our attitude to each and every person with 
whom we came in contact She showed us by example. Everyone 
she met was an important person to her, and she indicated this 
by word and action. Although she was widowed with four 
children under ten years of age. she never held us back for her 
sake. When asked about this, she would reply that animals and 
birds were known to push their offspring out of the den or nest, 
so that they could learn to take care of themselves. She believed 
in us, and inspired us to believe in ourselves. She urged us 

forward. . ^ ^ t. 

Mother felt that she was fortunate, as indeed she was m 
her day, to have a fairly good education. At the same time, 
however she valued the person who was not so fortunate, but 
was making it on his own. Our father was one of twelve children 



22 



in a pioneenng family of early Saskatchewan settlers, and his 
interlude at school was short, as it was for many, in an era when 
learning of any kind was gained primarily within the family or 
through expenence. This was the period when informal education 
particularly adult education, had its roots. Canada has been built 
by the labour and foresight of such people. The creators of 
culture and progress came from such backgrounds Life was 
precious. Mother taught us that a good life was attained only 
mrough the struggle, obstacles, and discouragements confronting us. 
bhe encouraged us to accept these challenges and to use them as 
stepping stones, assuring us that through adversity we would 
discover the meaning of life. 

Another member of the family who had great influence on 
c L o^^^^^ °^ brother John. He was ten when we lost our 
father.^^ Suddenly he was thrust into the role of the "man of the 

.n^tfAr.. ^''^ ^ older than Roby. and 

Mmeone to look up to. As they grew older, they grew closer, 
tach respected the other, and from an early age. they loved to 
discuss, argue, and exchange ideas in lively repartee. John would 
otten provoke the discussion with an opposing view, just to make 
It interesung. Every topic from the serious to the foolish was 
covered, everything from politics to how many angels could dance 
on the head of a pin. In all the many talks about the future, we 
don t remember money, fame, or power being a priority. Our 
ambiuons and expectations were to make the most of our abilities. 
Koby did that with enthusiasm and love; and many of the ideas 
ne was eventually able to put into practice were ones he had 
cuscussed with John. This wonderful relationship lasted throughout 
Aeir lives. John. too. felt the urge to pioneer and extend the 
i i^K*' r°PP°?™^]'.' to promote cultural and personal 

growth for Canadians through the development of useful 
organizauons. Like Roby, John was deeply influenced by the 
TMCA. and had great respect for. and rapport with, individuals 
John was instrumental in encouraging Roby to attend Sir George 
Williams College, and shared his brother's keenness for adult 
education. When John died in 1963. Roby lost his most valuable 
sounding board and friend 

The YMCA had an enormous impact on Roby's early 
development, and helped to shape him into a serious- minded 
committed person. At the time when we three (John. Roby, and 
Munel) were most active in the organization, it professed to be a 
worid-wide fellowship for the purpose of developing Christian 
personality; and buildmg a Christian society. This theme was 
stressed in staff and leadership training sessions. The Hi-Y 
orgamzauon m the high schools sponsored by the Y. held moving 
inducuon ceremonies, often in the setting of a local Sunday night 



37 



23 



church service. Personal growth and dedication lo service to others 
was stressed. 

Our church afiiliation undoubtedly had far reaching effects 
on his enquiring mind; and some of the Sunday School teachers 
and group leaders encouraged lively discussion and exploration of 
ideas. 

People of all walks of life, and ot all colours and creeds, 
impressed Roby and gave him inspiration. He revered, as many of 
us did, such men as A. E. Corbett and Henry F. Hall. Finally, 
his own growing family, with its diversity of goals, ideas, and 
interests, was a joy and a challenge. His wife Margaret, one of 
our most cherished friends, was his most devoted helpmate. They 
were right for each other, and made a perfect team. 



CHAPTER 2 



THE GffiSON^S EXPERIENCE 

Lester R. Peterson 

Each summer from the age of six, Roby Kidd travelled by 
steamer from Vancouver harbour to West Howe Sound. The home 
of George Robbins, Roby's maternal grandfather, overlooked Shoal 
Channel at the upcoast entrance to the Sound. Focus of the small 
settlement of Gibson's Landing was the public wharf, near which 
the original Gibson family house remained standing through the 
1920's. 

A road system linked Gibson's Landing to Gower Point, 
Roberts Creek, Wilson Creek, Davis Bay, Selma Park and Sechelt 
along the Strait of Georgia, and to Grantham's Landing and 
Hopkins' Landing on Howe Sound. Transponation contacts with 
the outside world could be made only by water. 

Throughout his boyhood and early youth, Roby lived with 
his mother, his brother, John, and his sisters Mary and Muriel on 
Marguerite Street in the city of Vancouver. During ten months of 
each year, he attended school and participated in an urban way of 
life. He excelled in scholarship. 

From an early age, Roby was imbued with a zeal to take a 
message to the world. The message remained unchanged: through 
learning and co-operation, human beings could attain a world of 
understanding. 

If the economic expansion of the decade after the Great 
War had continued, Roby's ideals may have remained abstract 
However, the Wall Street collapse of 1929, followed by prairie 
drought, placed the Kidd family in financially difficult 
circumstances. In 1932, the mother disposed of the city home and 
moved the family to Gibsons. 

Roby graduated that year from Prince of Wales High School 
with honours. As family finances could net accommodate the 
expenses involved in attendance at a university, he undertook 
senior matriculation through home study. This step would be 
attained three years later. While he continued to be an academic 
student during this time, other elements were also being brought 



25 



to bear to shape Roby's future. 

Unquestionably, one of the main contributing elements was 
the YMCA, His brother, John, worked at the Vancouver centre. 
From the age of ten, Roby spent time each summer at Camp 
Elphinstone, The YMCA had established this operation in 1907, in 
order to provide young city men with experience in the rural 
atmosphere of West Howe Sound. The Association sought to 
achieve and maintain an image of ardour, integrity, and 
self- discipline. The Y aimed at both identity of self and 
consideration for the selves of others. Campers from Elphinstone 
participated in Howe Sound regattas and staged demonstrations in 
water sports. Roby Kidd personified the YMCA to the residents 
of West Howe Sound communities. He exemplified a sense of fair 
play and conscientiousness. 

During the 1920s, as the number of homes and summer 
cottages increased, the wilderness atmosphere of the Hopkins' 
Landing locality diminished- In 1932. Camp Elphinstone was 
relocated farther up Howe Sound to a site near Williamson's 
Landing, beyond public road access. There, trees on the grounds 
merged with a forest ihat stretched unbroken to the top of the 
mountain from which the camp derived its name. 

Almost all the Elphinstone staff and campers were from the 
metropolitan area* Prominent citiz.ens had in their youth attended 
Camp Elphinstone. Prominent families continued to send their sons 
there. Schools and universities would provide the young with 
literary and professional skills. Summer camp was expected to 
contribute to a rotmding out of the liberal education through 
attainment of combined physical and mental fitness. Its concomitant 
outcome was preparation for leadership. Throughout his years at 
Gibson's Landing. Roby retained his contact with the city- based 
YMCA, 

The migrants who had filtered through the port of 
Vancouver were a rather diversified lot They had come from the 
Old World — some directly and some indirectly — across North 
America, Some had been propelled from their places of origin by 
political and social conditions. Some had been attracted westward 
by an appeal to romantic imagination, 

Vancouver had sprung into almost instant being with 
completion of the Canadian Pacific Railway to Burrard Inlet in 
1887. From this port, a fleet of Princess boats travelled the coast, 
and Empress ships crossed the Pacific Ocean, At the Canadian 
Pacific depot, where rail met tidewater, metal letters mounted on 
an arch spelled out the words "SPANS THE WORLD." 

The first to make their way to West Howe Sound found 
only timber as a resource. Regardless of what they had been 
previously to this move, they became loggers. They chopped and 



40 



26 



sawed the prime cedar and Douglas fir trees and sent the 
rainforest to Vancouver mills in the forms of logs and 
shingle- bolts. By 1900, much of this timber had been cut 

During the first two decades of the twentieth century, 
waterfront pre-emptions along West Howe Sound and up the 
mainland Strait of Georgia coast were subdivided into homesite 
lots. Above the steep sloping seaside, along the comparatively even 
base of Mt Elphinstone, the area that had been logged and then 
deserted was broken into pieces t ^at could conceivably be put to 
farm use. Some of the first families to undertake ranching brought 
cattle, horses, sheep, and poultry into what was to become known 
for a time as Gibson's Heights. Soon after, a group of Finnish 
origin acquired logged- off pre-emptions and set about to establish 
farms. Encouraged by government surveyors' favourable comments 
on soil and climate conditions, families and single men came with 
dreams of "living off the land." Following the Great War, the 
Soldier Settlement Board opened ten- acre plots to entitled veterans. 

The young at Gibson's Landing during the 1920s were raised 
m a community as isolated as any island. Homes were without 
telephone, and the radio was a rare novelty. Printed matter was 
scarce. Most information travelled directly by word of mouth. The 
past lived only in memory, as each individual pioneer recalled 
personal episodes from bygone times. 

Roby grew gradually into this world of recollected lore. He 
walked the narrow public ways tliat linked the scattered homes, 
and came to know the identities of their inhabitants. He followed 
skidroads and flumes that wound among a numberless array of 
giant stumps to clusters of split- cedar cabins that remained, vacant 
but intact, from the early days of logging. 

Roby and others of his generation were bom too late to 
see the first efforts at industry and settlement, but they were not 
too late to be immersed in the lore that had developed about 
these undertakings. Events from that past, particularly those which 
had left imprints on their setting, assumed to the yoimg listener 
forms that were larger than life. Giant deeds were :xSsociated with 
giant men. 

During his boyhood, Roby absorbed the lore by mental 
osmosis. Later, as a young man, he worked at times alongside 
some of these legendary figures at clearing and maintaining the 
roads, and heard their stories at first hand. They had coped with 
the world. They had assailed uninhabitable forest land and made 
it inhabitable. Their opinions on any topic carried the weight of 
experience. 

Within a few years after the arrival of the first settlers, a 
school was needed. Howe Sound Elementary, a one- room building, 
was opened in 1891. This waf; the first public building in the 



27 



community, and the first public schcx)! on the mainland coast 
north of Burrard Inlet Land for its purpose was donated, and 
volunteers planted the perimeter of the playground with maple 
seedlings. 

Children arrived at this school on foot They learned the 
basic functions of reading, writing, arithmetic, art, geography, and 
history. As immigrants from northern European countries settled 
along the base of the mountain, some students came from homes 
in which only the language of the parental birthplace was spoken. 
Families in general supported the school: they looked upon public 
school education as a means through which they young might 
succeed in the new world. 

From the beginning of what could be called settlement life, 
the various people who made up the population of West Howe 
Sound undertook to meet for common purposes. They met at 
pioneer homes and in the fields to discuss matters that were 
considered to be of significance. Speakers were invited to 
gatherings to talk on social, political, and economic issues. Directly 
or indirectly, the presence of these figures helped to lead the 
collective minds of their audiences into practical enterprises. 

Soon after the arrival of George Robbins, chapters of the 
Farmers' Institute and of the Women's Institute were formed. A 
co-operative general store was built and opened for business at 
the Gibson's Landing waterfront, and a co-operative cannery v/as 
established on Gibson's Heights to process berries and fruits. 
Annual fall fairs were inaugurated, and a drama society^ and an 
athletic club organized. Local commercial fisherman formed an 
association. 

National and metropolitan institutions were also making their 
presences felt on Howe Sound and along mainland Strait of 
Georgia shores. The Boy Scouts and Giri Guides established 
camps. At about the time that the Kidd family moved to 
Vancouver and began to spend summers at Gibson's Landing, the 
Baptist Church acquired the southern end of Keats Island. The 
entire island shore, across Shoal Channel from the Landing, 
constituted the principal feature in the view from George Robbins' 
home. The camp simulated the routine aboard ship. The sound of 
a bell that was rung at each change of watch carried across the 
water to the village. 

One day, when he was twelve years old, Roby decided to 
row over to Keats Island Camp to attend a talk by a minister of 
the Church. The speaker told of the need for volunteers to teach 
in India. Deeply moved by the plea, so Roby reminisced later on 
about the incident, he decided while he was rowing back home 
that some day he would go to the far-away country. 

Two years after this decision, the collapse of the stock 



42 



28 



market signalled the onset of what came to be known as the 
Great Depression. Enterprises that had been initiated and 
maintained by fmancial investment withered. 

Neither settlers nor visitors along West Howe Sound were 
wealthy. Cash resources were budgeted carefully; there was little 
to spare beyond the coverage of life necessities. The area ofTered 
neither cafeteria nor lounge. Ranchers on the tablelands provided 
Landing residents and campers with dairy products, eggs fruits 
and vegetables for cash purchase. Small farms were also operated 
withm the municipality of Gibson's Landing on all sides of the 
Kidd family home. From early childhood on, Roby encountered 
food production and exchange at first hand. The farmers spoke of 
the relative merits of various kinds and strains of plants, bushes, 
and berries under prevailing conditions. The growth and 
distw<>uUon required and resulted in a fine interdependence of 
economic and social forces. Individual growers, co-operative 
associations, and free enterprise merchants became intertwined 
during the production and distribution processes. Growers 
distributors, and consumers were all neighbours who contributed 
visibly and identifiably to these processes. The fall fair, held in 
August of each year, added a social atmosphere to the serious 
business ^ of agriculture. The social doctrine that Roby was to 
develop included food production as a significant element 

Firewood remained the common heating and cooking fuel 
throughout the West Howe Sound settlements during the 1920s and 
1930s. Trees and snags that had not been removed for lumber 
were sawn into cookstove, heater, and fireplace lengths. The 
hauling of firewood became a business. From the time that he 
could wield an axe, Roby had learned to split wood as a 
househola chore. When the family moved to Gibson's Landing, he 
found occasional employment as swamper on a truck that delivered 
firewood. The task necessitated piling each block on the truck 
deck, throwing it ofT at the point of delivery, and stacking it into 
cordwood dimensions. It was physically demanding work. 

During the times that Roby was engaged in this industry, 
he came into personal contact with the work ethic. Cutters and 
carriers of firewood exerted their muscles not in sport but in 
exchange for human needs. His experiences as a labourer left a 
lasting impression on Roby's memory. They offered him one of 
the bearing points from which he would continually assess his 
sense of direction. 

In 1932, the Howe Sound Women's Institute completed a 
hall across the main road from the school. The organization had 
from the time of its formation held a series of raffles, bazaars, 
bake sales, and other projects to raise funds for this structure, and 
an active member had provided financial assistance. 



29 



Almost all of the building was done by volunteers. This was 
not the first community hall, but it was larger than any of its 
predecessors, and it provided stage and dressing-room facilities. A 
Delco power plant provided electricity for lighting, and a 
wood- burning furnace supplied heat 

The Women's Institute Hall immediately became the focus of 
indoor community life. It offered space for public meetings, 
concerts, dances, stage shows, and sports. Users were responsible 
for operation of the power plant and the furnace. Both permanent 
residents and summer visitors made use of the W. L Hall. 

Roby joined the Gibson's Ajhletic Club and the Howe 
Sound Drama Society. At badminton meets, at basketball games, 
and at stage rehearsals and performances, he met his neighbours 
enjoying leisure hours. These associates accepted him as an adult 
Intervals between badminton games were suited to conversation, as 
were walks to and from the Hall in the black of winter nights. 

Basketball permitted Roby to put into use skills that he had 
acquired from his experiences with the game in Vancouver. During 
practices he encouraged teammates to develop moves in which 
they revealed latent abilities. While still learning, he found 
opportunities to teach. As on other occasions, while critical of his 
own limits, he remained patient with the imperfections of others. 
His attitude was always positive: human beings could learn to 
advance their skills in any combined undertaking. Through his 
contacts, players from Gibsons exchanged visits with Vancouver 
teams. 

Drama fulfilled a special purpose in the coastal communities. 
With the intrusion of Howe Sound and the Strait effectively 
isolating the inhabitants from anything more thsm rare acquaintance 
with the professional theatre, they found themselves thrown upon 
their own devices to create glimpses of imaginary persons and 
places beyond the realities of their own lives. 

Along with crafts and skills, immigrants had brought with 
them some memories of stage business. Various organizations had 
presented skits in whatever space was currently available. The 
provision of the new hall for footlights and settings allowed 
performers to undertake more elaborate productions. Scripts of 
both standard and new plays were available at little expense. 

Men and women walked through all types of weather to 
select material and to cast roles. Roby joined the group, the 
members of which he already knew. From one stage performance 
to the next he saw citizens of the community intermingle their 
own personalities with those of the characters they portrayed. 
Through his studies and experiences, Roby became aware of the 
extent to which drama can heighten life, and of the lessons that 
the real world can learn from its own image. 



44 



30 



From the time that Europeans realized the existence of 
North America and its native inhabitants, writers gave free rein to 
their fancies about conditions in the New World. The Romantic 
Age of literature gained much of its poignancy from the 
wilderness mystique of an unknown land. 

In Canada, Confederation added a national ethos without 
diminishing the romantic elements. Images of Canada as a country 
grew and bloomed in creative minds along with political 
federation. Completion of intercontinental railways opened the 
western half of the new Dominion to the works of Bliss Carmen, 
Charies G. D. Roberts, Frederick George Scott, Wilfred Campbell, 
Archibald Lamp man, Ernest Thompson- Seton, Peter McArthur, and 
other writers in the central and maritime provinces. 

Tom Mclnnes accompanied his family to New Westminster a 
decade before the CPR appeared. Pauline Johnson, renowned 
poetess, early in the twentieth century followed the rail to its 
terminal at Vancouver. Maijorie Pickthall and Isobel Ecclestone 
MacKay also gravitated to this city. Bertxand Sinclair, who had 
innovated the adventurous Western novel, crossed the continent and 
pushed northwards along the coast to Pender Harbour to pursue 
new social and psychological settings and themes. 

In 1926, A. M. Stephen, who had arrived at Vancouver 
from Bentick, Ontario, edited a selection of poetry and prose 
under the title The Voice of Canada. The book became an 
established text for grades seven and eight students. Stephen 
addressed his introduction, "Literature in the Classroom," to 
teachers of English: 

The primary aim of the teacher must be to implant 
in the child's mind a love of great writing, to stir his 
imagination and to give him a standard by which he 
may discern the difference between the permanent and 
ephemeral in life and literature . . . While it is 
necessary that the pupils should understand the 
meaning of what they read or hear read to them, it 
is also important that they should feel, in some 
measure, the inspiration which lies within the words 
. . . It might be hard to analyze the effect thus 
produced in the child*s mind; nevertheless, it will have 
a lasting influence upon character. 

The editor*s commentary summarized the educator's assessment of 
the role that literature was meant to play in the school system. It 
was to be aimed at both the imagination and the senses of the 
young student Its concomitant outcome was the development of 
ideals. Roby heard and studied poems and stories in Vancouver 



31 



schools. Along the waters and shores of Howe Sound he 
encountered the forces that had compelled the writers to put their 
experience into words. 

Canadian painters at this time were influenced by an art 
form known as Impressionism. Impressionist artists appealed directly 
to the viewer's emotional sensitivities. They worked with contrasts 
of light and shade to express and to create moods. Tom 
Thomson, J. E. H. MacDonald and other artists who all actually 
painted independently were referred to by critics as the Group of 
Seven. On the West Coast, William Weston and Emily Carr also 
developed impressionistic styles. Weston's fir trees and Carr*s 
cedars took their places along with Tom Thompson's jack pines 
and J. E. H. MacDonald*s oaks as symbols of nature as a temple. 

Maijorie Pickthall revealed her unique genius in "Pere 
Lalemont," in which she poetically brought together the threads of 
Impressionism and Symbolism. With infinite control, the writer 
reveals the missionary's stream of consciousness as he celebrates 
Mass in a Huron country forest: 

Pines shall my pillar be. 
Fairer than those of Sidonian cedars brought 
By Hiram out of Tyre, and each birch tree 
Shines like a holy thought 

The notion of the forest as a natural temple appealed powerfully 
to an imaginative reader. 

The chapel at Camp Elphinstone contributed to rhis appeal. 
It consisted of two boat hulls stood on end, bows uppermost, 
fronted by the stump of a felled fir tree. The vessels — the 
upturned ark — with the pulpit a remnant among living forest 
pillars, were set apart from the camp's physical activity areas. The 
chapel served as a sanctuary — a place reserved for meditation. 
Whatever matters an individual might contemplate at this site, the 
senses would be impressed with a spiritual element 

Another spot that came to be associated with pensive 
contemplation was located upcoast from the entrance to Howe 
Sound, just beyond the Headlands of the village of Gibson's 
Landing. There, a dome of granite rises almost sheer from the 
sea. Early in the twentieth century, a person whose identity never 
became public painted proverbs above ledges around the face of 
this promontory. Phrases such as CHRIST DIED FOR THE 
UNGODLY, THE WAGES OF SIN IS DEATH, and HE SHALL 
BE BORN AGAIN were clearly visible to travellers passing by in 
boats. The place became known as Gospel Rock. 

A romantic element was added to this unusual spot with the 
publication in 1924 of the novel Gordon of the Lost Lagoon. The 



32 



author, Robert Watson, Hudson's Bay Company ofTicial at 
Winnipeg and an established writer of history and fiction, has 
spent summers in a waterfront home within sight of tliis well 
known place. Cohoe, the setting of the story, was readily 
identifiable as Gibson's Landing. A key figure, the heroine's 
mother, was pictured as pale and saddened by tragedies from the 
past Although the story did not so specify, local folklore placed 
the scene of the melancholy lady's musings atop Gospel Rock. 

Soon after this story appeared in print, a road was 
constructed along the shoreline between Gibsons and the summer 
settlement of Gower Point It passed inunediately behind the top 
of the dome. Muriel Kidd took her family along the new road to 
the lookout site. To the east lay the mouth of Shoal Channel, tlie 
southern tip of Keats Island and, beyond. Hermit Island, on which 
was located the "lost" lagoon of the novel. To the south extended 
almost the entire scope of the Strait of Georgia, with mountains 
of Vancouver Island in the background. 

During his years on West Howe Sound, Roby walked many 
times to Gospel Rock to look out over the ocean, and to take 
psychological observations. 

Early in the twentieth century, rail lines were opening the 
Canadian West to settlement Winnipeg became the hub of the 
movement of people and goods. J. S. Woodsworth was sent to 
the gateway city by the Methodist Church to work among the 
immigrants. There he found that many new arrivals, who had 
crossed the sea and land in search of a new lease on life, were 
unprepared for harsh prairie conditions. In 1908, he published 
Strangers Within the Gates to focus public attention on the need 
for social legislation to alleviate the human suffering that was 
resulting from unregulated inunigration. 

Dissatisfied with the lack of impact of his book, 
Woodsworth moved his family across the continent At Gibson's 
Landing he renewed acquaintance with Doctor Frederick Inglis, 
who had spent almost a decade as medical missionary for the 
Presbyterian Church at Telegraph Creek, one of the ports of entry 
into the Yukon gold fields. 

The Woodsworths' stay in Gibsons coincided with the Great 
War of 1914-1918. Both Inglis and Woodsworth spoke out against 
the conflict, which contravened their fundamental teachings. 
Woodsworth returned to Winnipeg soon after the War's end, and 
spent the remainder of his active life as a member of parliament 
The community at Gibson's remained aware of his continuing 
efforts to implement social legislation; and general opinion, 
correctly or incorrectly, related his philosophic intent to the climate 
of thought he had experienced during the stay on West Howe 
Sound. Years before he founded the Co-operative Commonwealth 



47 



33 



Federation. J. S. Woodsworth had become a legendary figure. 

As the Kidd family took up residence at Gibson's, the CCF 
party was coming into being. The Woodsworth philosophy would 
be expressed through a nation- wide federation. To aver on the 
basis of speculation alone that Roby was influenced by 
Woodsworth's principles — or by any other contemporary forces — 
would be unrealistic. During his years on West Howe Sound. 
Roby often voiced ideas, but opportunities to put dreams and 
visions into practice were limited. 

On an August day in 1935. Roby and I walked south from 
Burrard Inlet to the Vancouver Normal School, at Cambie Street 
and 10th Avenue. There. I wrote grade twelve exams I had missed 
during the sockeye fishing season, Roby's exams, so I recall, 
completed his senior matriculation. Soon after that occasion. Roby 
travelled to Monueal to fill a vacancy in the YMCA staff. 

Officially, the move marked the beginning of his career. But 
throughout all his teaching life. Roby never lost the attitude of a 
learner that he developed during his boyhood and youth. As he 
moved forward in both national and international fields of adult 
education, he found occasions to glance back at these earlier years. 

In 1962. he undertook to see The Gibson's Landing Story 
into print, and wrote an introduction to the account He opened 
the recollected past with an assertion of his identity with the 
conununity of his younger years: 

Wherever I have been in any part of the world 
people have asked "Where is your home?" and I have 
answered that I live in Montreal. New York. Toronto. 
Ottawa, or wherever I happen to reside at the time, 
but my home is Gibson's Landing. If I think I won't 
be misunderstood. I say. "my spiritual home is 
Gibson's." 

In this reminiscence. Roby identified J. S. Woodsworth with 
Gibson's and referred to him as "that saint in politics." In so 
doing, he acknowledged an intellectual indebtedness to Woodsworth. 
whom he always considered to be more of an educator than a 
politician. 

In 1973. Roby gave a paper. "The Social Gospel in 
Canada." during the Interdisciplinary Conference on the Social 
Gospel in Canada at the University of Regina. In the opening 
memoir section of his address, he referred to the contrast of rural 
and urban influences from his maturing years: 

My old grandfather had built a tall, quaint, shingled 
house on a hill at Gibson's Landing, to which had 



34 



come the poor and lost, and adventurers from 
everywhere ... It was here in the bush and the 
fishmg boats and on the road gang that I learned 
economics and Canadian history: this was r^v real college. 

Roby seemed to remain slightly in awe of the 
school- of^expenence philosophers of his oung manhood years- 
who. while they eked their livelihood from unrelenUng physical 
exertion, could penetrate to the finest subUeUes of intellectual 
disputauon. He returned to this aspect of his educaUon in an 
interview which P. Bertram recorded on November 16 1974- "And 
so. m the major years of the Depression. I was" in Gibson's 
Landing. This was, of course, the most formative of my life " 

In April of 1981. Nancy Cochrane and Bill Barnard began a 
recorded interview at the Department of Adult Education in 
Toronto. In referring to his writings which he defined as "a kind 
of tiayellogue through the significant things that happened in adult 
educaUon over thirty years." he reiterated this observation: 

Well, the starting point is Gibson's Landing an 
extremely rich experience during the Depression years 
. . . The road gang in which I found myself often 
trying to get some kind of existence was a very lively 
debating group on economics and social policy and 
poliUcs. I have always thought of that as my school. 

On March 19. 1982. Bill Barnard visited Roby to complete 

the interview that had begun nearly a year earlier. During the 

conversation. Roby looked back one final time to a setting into 
which he had been introduced sixty years before: 

But I guess, if I really am pushed, I would still say 
Gibson's Landing is my home . . . And when, for 
example. I am under a certain amount of stress or 
pain, and tiierefore am trying to remove myself from 
this, and placing myself somewhere else, the place I 
most often go to is a rock very close to Gibson's 
Landing, witii tiie sea pouring over it It is tiiere tiiat 
I place myself, in that environment ... it is tiiat 
rock, but it is also the environment of Howe Sound. 

"That rock" was Gospel Rock — tiie Rock of Ages — which 
stands at tiie outer entrance to West Howe Sound "The 
environment of Howe Sound" included all of tiie geographical 
natural, and human elements tiiat Roby had encountered in tiie 
communiues of tiie Sound and at tiie YMCA's Camp Elphinstone 



35 



The term "social gospel" permeated Roby*s life. In this 
expression, a seemingly simple merging of known factors results in 
a complicated and mysterious product In the paper that he 
presented to the 1973 Regina Conference, Roby related adult 
education and social gospel in this impression that he had carried 
with him from his life on West Howe Sound: 

What I saw of adult education in those years of 
growing up in B.C. was not well organized. It was 
often interrupted and badly sequenced. But the few 
bociks that were available were well used, and men 
read and argued and discussed and tested each other. 
They and their families, particularly their women, 
made music and plays and dances, studied nature and, 
in the main, learned to live with their environment 
The local church, the school master, the dramatic 
society, and the political groups were the sponsors of 
adult education; and even the local leader of the 
Communists at Gibson's was as much imbued with a 
social gospel as any church member, only he called it 
humanity and brotherhood. 

The school master to whom Roby referred was Allan 
Stanley Trueman, who had come, with a bachelor of arts degree 
from St John's College, Winnipeg, and a master of arts degree 
from the University of British Columbia, to teach all senior 
students in all subjects at the one- room Howe Sound High 
School. Trueman was highly skilled in Socratic irony, which 
philosopic device he employed not to refute the points of view of 
other speakers but to analyze the topic of discussion to its 
essence. 

Roby had not been a mere observer of the processes on 
which he was to comment later. Not only had he been initiated 
into the academic stream of adult education through the 
Department of Education correspondence courses, but he had also 
participated in debates of the political groups and in the activities 
of the church, the school, and the dramatic society. He ignored 
neither the theoretical nor the practical stream, but combined from 
each those elements which he judged to be most valuable. From 
the outset adult education and social gospel were synonymous 
concepts to Roby Kidd. 

It would be cold charity to say that Roby either "grew out 
or his Christian background or "turned away from" the YMCA. 
He did neither. Inevitably, his unique experiences contributed to a 
syncretism the results of which were that he would every day 
discover new variations on a basic theme. During his visits to 



5u 



36 



West Howe Sound, his friends from his young adult years 
continued to recognize the same essential Roby striving through 
processes of education to achieve an enlarged understanding. 

Roby did not at any time depreciate his experiences 
throughout North America and among peoples of the other 
continents. He always valued those contacts, and he freely 
admitted influences from each of them on his perception of the 
social gospel. Regarding the influences that had affected his 
philosophy, he said of Gibson's not that it was the only point of 
call along the way, but tliat it was the "starting point" 

Others who knew him placed more emphasis on his 
qualifications than Roby was ready to assert By the time he left 
for Montreal, he had put in ten seasons at Camp Elphinstone, 
five of them as a leader responsible for practicable decisions. He 
was, in fact, well prepared for the road ahead in 1935. He did 
not attempt to force his views on his acquaintances, but they 
valued his studious judgements. He was relied upon to provide 
answers tliat could be realized in active form. Throughout his life, 
he continued to provide answers. 

Roby saw Gibson's Landing, somewhat idealized in 
retiospect, as a microcosm that had come into being through 
purposeful co-operative effort I believe that he drew upon his 
experiences at Gibson's, and on his trust in the autonomous moral 
virtue of humanity, to form his vision of a universal community. 



CHAPTER 3 



J. R. KIDD S CONTRIBUTION TO 

FILM AND BROADCASTING IN ADULT EDUCATION 

Harry Campbell 
(Edited by N. J. Cochrane) 

This review of the work of Roby Kidd in adult education 
concentrates largely on the beginning of film and broadcasting 
applications by adult educators in Canada. The assessment covers 
the period up to 1961. by which time Roby Kidd had moved on 
from his post as Director of the Canadian Association for Adult 
Education (CAAJE) to become involved in new directions in 
Ottawa, and in increasing international dimensions. It is because 
the use of film and broadcasting media in Canada were so 
important to adult education methods in this early period, that a 
look at Roby Kidd's activities during this development is of value. 

Because this appraisal of the work of Rcby Kidd revolves 
largely around his own appreciation of the role of the media in 
mass communication, as much space as possible will be given to 
Roby's own writings and comments. 

During the early 1930s audio- visual materials began to make 
their appearance in educational programs in Canada. By 1938, 
Roby Kidd had completed his B.A. degree at Sir George Williams 
University in Montreal. (Sir George Williams University grew out 
of the formal education work developed by the YMCA.) This was 
the principal reason that had brought him, in 1935. from viibson's 
Landing. B.C.. to work at the YMCA in Montreal. In his job at 
the Y, he had become familiar with the use of 16mm films, 
film-strips, and slides as part of the educational and recreational 
program carried on there. He had seen the impact which these 
new learning tools could have on community programs, and he 
had seen the impact which the sound motion picture had on 
commercial cinema, on advertising and on education. 

Working with adults and young people in community 
programs in Montreal, he was very aware of the need for film 
and other materials that could be put to use in educational 



38 



programs. At that time, school education leaders in Canada were 
making growing use of what were termed "visual aids." Roby saw 
that non-school education, and adult social and recreational 
programs, needed to have films, broadcast materials, music, and 
recorded sound. How were these to be secured? Clearly such 
agencies as the YMCA, and other church and community afTiliated 
groups, would rapidly be cast into the role of consumers of 
commercial materials, unless they took steps to determine both the 
specific use to which audio visual materials could be put, and the 
methods of securing materials that would meet their own needs. 
Both these requirements meant influencing, if not controlling, 
production of the materials. 

Since 1940, the Canadian Association for Adult Education 
had been involved in the National Farm Radio Forum program of 
the CBC, and since 1943 with the CBC in Citizens' Forum. The 
histories of these projects have been extensively recorded in The 
Passionate Educators by Ron Faris, covering the yesirs 1919- 1952; 
and several aspects were dealt with by Frank W. Peers in The 
Politics of Canadian Broadcasting 1920-1951. Many adult educators 
shared in various ways in the evolution of Canadian broadcasting 
policies, as they were developed by the government One of the 
main organizations that worked long and hard to make effective 
use of the media in Canadian education was the CAAJE. Canada, 
imlike the United States of America, had adopted a policy, since 
the 193bs, of establishing a Canadian public broadc?.sting agency. 
This meant that Canadian adult educators had some access to the 
broadcast medium, although the control of program production was 
largely retained by the CBC. 

One thing was clear from the very beginning. Canadian 
government regulation of the means of producing and distributing 
sound broadcasting, meant there would be some aspect of 
government sanction as to what educational use could be made of 
the media. Canadian adult educators discovered that Canadian 
public ownership of the medium allowed a considerable choice of 
themes for Canadian listeners; but it also carried with it program 
controls, that were operated by the government, to ensure that the 
latter maintained authority over the contents of the air waves. 

From early in the 1930s, Canadian adult educators were 
forever knocking at the doors, of both private and public 
broadcast producers and distributors, with proposals for adult 
programs that were not always accepted by those who provided 
the financial sponsorship. 



39 



Earliest Stages of Adult Education and Media Development 

1930s - 1949 

In a speech to the annual conference of the American Association 
of Adult Education, held in Des Moines, Iowa, in 1948, Roby 
Kidd had the following to say: 

o^veiul ul iiiy Aiiiciiuui ftiends have warned me from 
time to time that the use of government funds for 
films and radio is the first step to some kind of 
totalitarianism. I want to state that it just ain't so. My 
answer to them has been to invite them to come up 
and examine our situation. Granted certain conditions 
that we have maintained — a reasonably alert 
electorate, some citizen participation in planning, some 
safeguards in distribution, utilization in the hands of 
the local leaders — these media have made a very 
positive contribution to citizenship. 

Behind these words lay several years of experience by Roby 
Kidd in dealing with the policies of media agencies such as the 
National Film Board and the CBC Roby had seen the growth of 
the National Film Board production and distribution efforts at first 
hand, starting with the arrival in Ottawa of John Grierson from 
England, in 1939. He had followed with interest the establishment 
of the trade union, industrial, and rural film circuits by 1945, in 
every province. They had been set up with the co-operation of 
adult educators, and other specialists, active in citizenship 
education. In co- operation with the Board, Roby had taken the 
lead in carrying out experiments in film discussion groups, using 
the materials of the National Film Board, and other sources, as 
the basis for public meetings, and question and answer sessions. 
During a five-month period in 1945, a series of Film Forums, 
using short public affairs films for group discussions, v/as offered 
at the Ottawa YMCA, where Roby was adult program secretary. 
The Y's Public Affairs Committee, a planning group for adult 
programs, had co-operated in this undertaking with the Ottawa 
Women's School for Citizenship, the YMCA-YWCA Co-Ed, the 
Red Triangle Club for service personnel, and the Canadian 
Congress of Labour Educational Committee. The Research 
Department of the Film Board had worked with him to establish 
a series of questionnaires which were used to determine audience 
opinion of the discussions, and the discussion leader's views on 
the value of the project 

These efforts were part of the search to find a way for 
audiences to have some form of participatory experience from 



40 



matenal presented by the 16nKn film. Discussion based on sodal 
topics was felt to be an effective means of doing this. The 
experiences in Ottawa at the YMCA paved the way for Roby's 
participation, at Teacher's College, Columbia University, in a 
project on Film Forums carried out by the Institute for Adult 
Education in 1946-48. This occurred when Roby accepted a 
scholarship in the Institute in order to work for an Ed.D. degree. 
Out of this experience came a practical ability to utilize a variety 
of film evaluation tools in adult education, which he was to put 
to use when he returned to Canada. 

Before he had gone to the Institute, Roby had written in 
New Ways of Learning, published in Ottawa by the Canadian 
Council of Education for Citizenship: 

Remember that most film experiences, of adults 
especially, are passive, often little more than directed 
day-dreams. Your task is to get their attention before 
the film begins. An effort should be made, of course, 
to link what they are about to see with their previous 
experience. Adult film forums help this process by 
supplying related literature some time in advance of 
the rvening. 

On his return to Canada in 1947, as the Associate Director 
of the CAAE, Roby took on the task of organizing film reviewing 
as a basic means of equipping adult groups to cope with the 
growing quantity of materials that were being produced, and made 
available, m Canada. Through the agency of the Joint Planning 
Commission of the CAAE, film evaluation panels were established 
m various cities, to undertake evaluation of all 16mm films to be 
used with adults. The work was shared under Roby's management 
Evaluation panels were set up on international affairs in Toronto 
on social and community problems in Montreal, and on economic 
problems and on recreation and physical fitness in Ottawa. These 
panels viewed 16mm films and made annotations, which were 
published and distributed by the CAAE. in order to assist group 
leaders in the selection and use of program materials. Criticism of 
the films was related mainly to their purposeful utilization with 
adult groups. 



Canadian Filni Awards 

Roby was "the origmal innovator" (Topalovich. 1984) of the 
Canadian Film Awards, which were a special Canadian event 
Topalovich reports: 



41 



In May 1947, at a national conference of forty- four 
organizations afTiliated with the Canadian Association 
for Adult Education, it was decided that the time had 
come to arrange for awards for distinguished Canadian 
film and radio programs. The CAAE, and particularly 
its Assistant Director, J. Roby Kidd, recognized the 
far-reaching influence and importance of these two 
media in aiding the association's own adult education 
objectives. It was hoped that these new awards would 
be comparable in stature with the Governor Greneral's 
Awards for literature, and would realize three main 
objectives: recognizing significant Canadian creative 
effort, helping Canadians to understand the work of 
creative Canadian artists, and raising standards in the 
fields of film and radio. A fifteen-member National 
Advisory Board was formed, made up of 
representatives from a varety of disciplines and 
institutions from across Canada. Roland Michener, the 
former Provincial Secretary of Ontario, was its first 
Chairman, and Roby Kidd was its Secretary. 
Responsible for the conduct of the awards programs, 
the Board appointed an executive committee to oversee 
the day- to- day management of the organization. Its 
members included Roby Kidd; Mavor Moore . . . 
Victor Morin . . . Byrne Hope Saunders . . . Ralph 
Henson . . . and James E, McGuire. . . . Roby was 
Chairman of the Canadian Film Awards in 1956 
(Topalovich, 1984, p. 1-2). 

Funding for the Canadian Film Awards was provided by the 
CAAE, the Association of Canadian Radio Artists, the Canadian 
Broadcasting Corporation, the National Film Board, and several 
independent film companies. 

The Little Elgin Theatre in Ottawa was secured as the 
location of the awards presentation, and Prime Minister Louis St 
Laurent was invited to host the proceedings for the first time on 
April 27, 1949. Four hundred members and supporters of Canada's 
burgeoning film industry gathered to pay tribute to the outstanding 
productions of 1948. 

The winners would receive an original painting by a 
Canadian Artist (including members of the Group of 
Seven) as a token of their achievement These prizes 
were valued at fifty dollars each (Topalovich. 1984, p. 5). 



The Radio Committee met under the chairmanship of Mavor 



42 



Mcx)re, while the Film Committee was directed by Roby Kidd. 
These committees formed part of what was to become an 
enduring Canadian film industry tradition" thai^ks to the vision 
and action taken by persons such as Roby. 

One of the most notable film award winners, Dr. John 
Grierson, was honoured for coining the term "documenv'ary." 
"Grierson viewed film both as a medium for public information 
and as an art form, and had pursued his vision by foimding the 
National Film Board of Canada in 1939." Prime Minister St 
Laiu:ent presented Award citations to the winners on April 19, 1950 
at the Little Elgin Theatre. He said this about documentary 'films: 
They do much to establish national unity and understanding, and 
are particularly valuable in making Canada better known to 
Canadians, as well as to the peoples of other countries." 

Crawley Films was another shining star, winning close to 
300 national and international awards. 

In a unique presentation, the entire Canadian film industry 
was honoured by a Special Award sponsored by the United 
Nauons in commemoration of International Co-operation Year 
(ICY). Dr. J. Roby Kidd. president of of the ICY*s Canadian 
division and founding director of the Canadian Film Awards, 
presented the special medal to veteran cinematographer Roy Tash! 
who accepted it on behalf of the film industry (Topalovich, 1984). * 

Many non- governmental agencies in Canada were questioning 
the role of films in Canadian education. The wartime uses of 
films had been carried out imder very strong governmental 
direction. Now it was a time to question the role and place of 
the government in this area. Roby quickly took up the 
opportunity of working with the National Film Society, which had 
already been active in Canada in the late 1930s , and had its 
headquarters in Ottawa. The Society called a meeting in December 
1947, to develop a Canadian code of standards for sponsored films. 
Present at this meeting were representatives of the Association of 
Canadian Advertisers, the Canadian Association of Advertising 
Agencies, the Canadian Education Association, the Canadian Library 
Association, the Canadian Teachers* Federation, the Film Producers* 
Association of Canada, the NFB and the CAAR As part of his 
duties with the CA.AE, Roby prepared a review of film censorship 
practices in Canada up to 1949. In it he stated: 

Adults in Canada have the right to choose their own 
form of livelihood, to select representatives who will 
make their laws, the partner who will be a parent for 
their children; but must be told by the government 
what films, or what parts of films, they will be 
allowed to see. Censorship is also a negation of the 



57 



43 



basic principle of adult education that adults are 
capable of managing their own affairs and becoming 
'masters of their own destiny.' 

In his review of the problems of establishing film content 
standards, he highlighted the fact that in Canada, political 
censorship was the most commonly reported form of government 
concern for the non- theatrical 16mm film user, in a large number 
of provinces, including Ontario and Quebec. 



Activities of the CAAE from 1949 to 1961 in use of the Media 

There were several reasons why the CAAE needed to be heavily 
involved in communication technology in the 1950s. Beginning in 
the 1930s, it had experienced the problems of attempting to use 
sound broadcastmg for adult education purposes; now it faced the 
realization that television broadcasting in Canada would have a 
major influence on the content and methods of adult learning. As 
a national organization, the CAAE had to use every means of 
communicating with the public on a national scale. Yet it could 
not command the resources for sponsoring television broadcasts on 
its own. As Director, Roby had to keep the Association visible to 
the private media industry in Canada, as well as to the 
government broadcasters, and he had to do this without appearing 
to be unduly critical of the work which they carried out In a 
foreword written in 1980 to Citizen^ Forum, Canadcts National 
Platform, Roby included a quotation from remarks made in 1954 
by Hugh Keenleyside, President of the Canadian Institute of 
Public Affairs: 

Canada is still trying to be a democracy, and the 
degree of success we attain in this effort will depend, 
in great measure, on our success in the development 
of an informed interest in our public affairs. Given 
the facts of our geographic setting, and press are the 
only real tools that can be used for this purpose. It 
is therefore of great importance that we should, from 
time to time, examine the methods we use and the 
success or failure of our efforts in the employment of 
these tools. 

As part of its clearinghouse and information function, Roby 
saw to it that the CAAE devoted a considerable amount of 
attention to the role of the mass media in adult education. He 
had prepared Look, Listen and Learn with Harry L. Strauss. 



58 



44 



devoted to the methods and materials of audio- visual media in 
adult programs, and this had been published by the Association 
Press in New York in 1948. The CAAE Joint Planning 
Commission, of which he was the Executive Secretary, published a 
guide to the sources of film and broadcast materials for adult 
education in Canada in 1949, 1950 and 1951. At the University of 
Alberta's Banff School of Fine Arts, in October 1949, Roby was 
involved with a University Course on Extension Methods and 
Techniques, which had concentrated heavily on audio-- visual 
materials, on the organization of local film councils, and on an 
examination of National Film Board production methods and 
policies. The Film Services Committee of the Joint Planning 
Commission published its Survey of Film Sources in Canada in 
September 1950; and Film Utilization, a Handbook for Leaders. 
prepared by J. R. Kidd and C. B. Storr, had been brought out 
in English and French by the CAAE by 1951. 

Approaches to the use of television for adult education in 
1953 included the holding of a CAAE Television Workshop, and 
representations to A. W. Trueman, the government Film 
Commissioner, to secure the wider distribution of adult education 
TV kinescopes. That same year, the Association published Pictures 
with a Purpose, the Distribution of nan- theatrical films in Canada^ 
as part of its Learning for Living series. The problems of the use 
of the air waves were not neglected. In 1956, the CAAE presented 
a Brief to the Royal Commission on Broadcasting, which 
highlighted the concerns of the Association for more attention to 
adult learning needs in Canada. 

Because the National Film Board had been forced to 
concentrate so heavily on non~ theatrical and educational 
productions, it found a strong ally in Roby Kidd during his years 
at the CAAR A year never went by that the role of Canadian 
Film Board films was not reviewed and evaluated, through the 
projects of the CAAE, for adult use in Canada. This relationship 
developed to the point that, in the mid 1960s, the CAAE became 
a formal consultant to the NFB regarding the place of films in 
community information and adult education activities. In addition 
to th e work with th e NFB, Roby assisted in many oth er f ;lm 
initiatives. 

A Canadian Trade Union Film Committee was organized 
through the instigation of the CAAE, with Gerard Pelletier as its 
chairman: and a project for the use of films and filmstrips, as 
educational aids for Frontier College instructors in isolated camps, 
was carried out in the summer of 1955. 

While the CAAE could not become involved in the 
development of adult television programs directly, Roby as its 
Director was in a position to influence some of the early efforts 



45 



for educational television in various parts of Canada, Beginning in 
1955, Citizens' Forum began to appear on CBC television, and the 
CAAE received copies of programs on kinescopes for record 
purposes, and for loan to individuals and orga^iizations for 
non-conraiercial use. For its part in Citizens* Forun, the CAAE 
received a Special Award from the Ohio State University Institute 
of Education by Radio- Television in 1960. 

In Toronto, a group of local education agencies, including 
the University of Toronto, the Toronto Board of Education, the 
Royal Ontario Museum, the Toronto Public Library, the Art 
Gallery of Toronto, and the Boards of Education of North York, 
Etobicoke, York, and East York had established the Metropolitan 
Toronto Educational Television Association (META) in 1959, META 
set up three active program committees for children*s 
out- of- school programs. Adult Education programs, and School 
ETV programs. With the assistance of Ryerson Institute in 
Toronto, META was able to undertake training courses, technical 
studies, and a limited nxmiber of studio productions. The existence 
of META provided Roby with a laboratory situation for the 
examination of adult education TV program possibilities. He used 
it as a means of monitoring the developments in this new 
medium, as they affected adult education efforts in various parts 
of Canada. 



Adult Education in the Telecommunication Era 1960s-- 1970s 

The rapid growth of the adult population in Canada in the 1960s, 
and the increasing role that post- secondary education was being 
called on to play in provincial education policies in Canada, meant 
that many new agencies were becoming involved in adult 
education. Roby Kidd realized that there would be powerful media 
services in Canada that would want to use the adult conmiimity 
for a market, and would have little interest in the development of 
programs concerned with social issues. In a speech at the opening 
of the 1960 Pugwash Conference in Nova Scotia, Roby linked 
three themes that were going to be major areas of interest for 
him for years to come — Conmiunications, Continuing Education, 
and International Development From 1960 on, his growing 
involvement in international activities lessened his direct 
participation in Canadian communication issues. Tliere was only so 
much that one person could do. During his term of office for 
four years in Ottawa, as secretary- treasurer of the SSRC, and the 
HRC, and as Executive Secretary of the Overseas Institute of 
Canada, he maintained contacts and was active in project planning 
with the Canadian Film Institute in Ottawa, as well as such 



60 



46 



groups as the CAAE's Study of the Canadian Content of 
Television. 



Reference 

Topalovich, M. (1984). Academy of Canadian Cinema, The 
Canadian Film A wards, Toronto: Stoddard Publishing, 
Division of General Publishers. 



61 



CHAPTER 4 



A DECADE OF LEADERSHIP OF THE CAAE 
Gordon Selman 

Roby Kidd joined the staff of the Canadian Association for Adult 
Education (CAAE) in 1947 as Assistant to the Director. K A. 
(Ned) CorbetL When Corbett retired in 1951, Roby became 
Director of the Association, serving in that capacity for a decade. 
During those years, he not only provided dynamic leadership for 
the Association, and for the Canadian movement as a whole, but 
also emerged on the international scene. By the time he left the 
CAAE in 1961, he was one of the best known and most highly 
regarded adult education leaders in the world. During these CAAE 
years, Roby set the course of his life's work and made major 
contributions to the field, here in Canada and in the world. 



Philosophy^ Leadership and Priorities 

When Roby Kidd took over the leadership of the CAAE in 1951. 
the organization already had established an enviable reputation as 
an outstanding national adult education organization. The 
contributions of K A. Corbett, the charismatic founding Director 
whom Roby succeeded, included such internationally recognized 
programs as ^^ational Farm Radio Forum, Citizens' Forum, and 
the Joint Planning Commission (JFC). These are well known and 
have been described at length elsewhere (Corbett, 1957; Armstrong, 
1968; Paris, 1975; Selman, 1981). 

The Canadian Association for Adult Education had been 
established in 1935, by leaders drawn largely from the universities 
and govemmenL The intention of the founders was that it be a 
national clearing house and information centre, a servant of the 
institutions and increasing number of practitioners across Canada. 
However, as a result of the leadership of Ned Corbett, the 
conditions created by the outbreak of the Second World War, and 
the reconstruction period which followed, the CAAE was 
transformed from what had originally been intended to a direct 



62 



48 



programming agency. Instead of a service agency to the emerging 
adult education establishment, the CAAE became an active provider 
of citizenship education. For a brief period in the early 1940s, in 
the yeasty days of reconstruction thinking, the Association took a 
stand itself on particular social and political issues. Although this 
action gained the Association some criticism, the somewhat radical 
manifesto of 1943 was soon replaced with a more moderate 
declaration of principles in 1946. From this point on the 
Association was committed to "imaginative training for citizenship" 
(the words of the 1946 declaration), but took no positions itself on 
the issues of the day, other than submissions to government 
bodies on matters clearly related to the interests of adult education 
and the adult learner. 

Roby's experience and credentials for the work he was 
undertaking were admirable. They gave him experience with 
privately^ sponsored, non- formal aspects of adult education. While 
a doctoral student in New York, he gained further working 
expexience, mainly in film utilization, and made valuable contacts 
with the large philanthropic foundations based in that city. Roby 
was the first Canadian to earn a doctoral degree in the field of 
adult education. His gaining such a qualification was important 
because of the knowledge and competence derived from that 
experience, and also because of the standing a doctoral degree 
gave him in dealing with officials and institutions. Roby's doctoral 
dissertation was about education for citizenship and the role of the 
Canadian Council on Education for Citizenship (CCEC), to which 
he expected to return in a paid capacity on the completion of his 
doctoral studies. The organization ceased to exist while Roby was 
away, however, and he was recruited instead, in 1947, to the staff 
of the CAAE His chief task was to direct the affairs of the 
newly- CTeated Joint Plarming Commission. Hiring Roby had been 
suggested to Corbett by an ofiicer of the Carnegie Corporation, 
from which Corbett had sought a grant in support of the 
establishment of the JPC. (For the first year of his employment 
with the CAAE, Roby spent half his time in Ottawa, finishing up 
some projects for the by then defunct CCEC). 

Roby Kidd was 32 years old when he returned to Canada 
to join the staff of the CAAE, and 36 when he became Director. 
He was a quiet and friendly person with a quick and ready sense 
of humour. Like Corbett. he had a great capacity for forming 
friendships. He respected as a colleague anyone who was working 
in adult education, in however humble a capacity, and people with 
whom he came in contact were attracted, and heartened, by that 
sense of conu-adeship which he displayed. He was a lively 
companion and enjoyed the company of others, especially on a 
one-to-one basis, or in small groups. He was not a particularly 



6j 



49 



eloquent or dramatic speaker, but he always prepared carefully and 
people appreciated the professional skill and integrity, imagination, 
humanity, and humour always evident in his presentations. The 
warmth of the man came through most effectively in smaller 
groups and personal conversation. 

Roby was a different style of leader than Corbett had been, 
although he had many of the same sympathies. He was no less a 
Canadian nationalist, but increasingly as the years went by, he 
supported and became involved in international contacts and 
projects. Like Corbett, he strongly supported the development of 
the arts in Canada. And like Corbett too, he had a capacity for 
relating to a wide range of people and winning their loyalty and 
affection. Tlie most striking difference, perhaps, between his 
leadership and Corbett's arose from the fact that he had received 
advanced professional training in adult education. This tempered 
his approach to the field as a whole, and also made it possible 
for him to contribute, which he did more than any other person, 
to the advancement in Canada of adult education as a field of 
study and professional training. He saw the needs of an emerging 
group of adult educators and realized that the goals of that group 
would have to be less overtly political than the CAAE's had been 
in the previous period. There was, by the 1950s, a wave of 
conservatism in North American society which made an overt 
left-of-centre image a distinct liability in seeking support and 
attaining one's goals. Roby was a practical leader of organizations 
and projects, and he was sensitive to the winds of change which 
were blowing. He was not afraid of controversy, but he chose his 
ground carefully. 

The change in the political climate had been abundantly 
clear to Roby before he assumed the directorship of the 
organization. In the context of his Joint Planning Commission 
duties, he had had to deal with strident conflict of views over 
broadcasting policies and other issues. More telling were the series 
of conflicts which surrounded Farm Forum and Citizens' Forum in 
the closing years of Corbett's directorship (Fans, 1975), some of 
them spearheaded by James Muir, the President himself of the 
CAAR Roby spoke to these matters directly in his first Director's 
Report to the Association in 1952. He pointed out thrt anyone 
dealing with "bread and butter questions affecting the caily lives 
of Canadian people" could not expect to be immune from 
criticism. He went on: 

But an organization like ours has bounds and 
limitations which we must recognize. It is not, and by 
its nature cannot be. the radical agency of social 
action which some of you . might prefer. Nor can it 



64 



50 



be a research agency only — simply observing and 
reporting facts. Our work cannot be done in splendid 
isolation; we must stay close to where groups are 
living and working. The CAAE is concerned about the 
welfare of, but cannot be the mouthpiece of, the 
farmer, the union member, the housewife, the 
businessman (Kidd, 1952, p. 5). 

In the same way that Roby cautioned the organiiation 
against seeking to pursue a partisan course of action, he was 
inclined at a personal level to speak in eclectic and inclusive 
terms about educational philosophies, rather than make strong 
personal statements in the Corbett style. He was fond of quoting 
Gandhi's statement: 

I do not want my house to be walled in on all sides 
and my windows to be stuffed. I want the cultures of 
all lands to be blown about my house as freely as 
possible. But I refuse to be blown ofT my feet by any. 

Although he cautioned his colleagues against committing the 
CAAE to ideological political positions, Roby had a strong belief 
in the social and political relevance of adult education. This may 
be one reason why he was drawn to the international dimensions 
of the field, the Third World generally seeing adult education as 
a means of economic and social change. The English statesman, 
George Canning, said in a speech in 1826 (following his use of 
the Monroe Doctrine in European power politics), "I called the 
New World into existence, to redress the balance of the Old." In 
a way, Roby did the same thing, helping to draw the ethos of 
adult education into the developing countries to offset the 
tendencies towards disinterested professionalism which he saw 
emerging in Canada and North America. Roby also pointed out in 
his first major book that foreign visitors to Canada had a strong 
sense of adult education in this country being a movement with a 
"sense of shared purpose" (Kidd, 1950, p. 13). Adult education in 
Canada was in the early stages of becoming professional and 
institutional, and during Roby's directorship the pace accelerated. 
No one contributed more to that trend than Roby himself But at 
the same time, no one gave more effective leadership in the 
direction of avoiding the negative aspects of this development 

In some respects, the Kidd years can be seen as a 
transitional period in which the social movement tradition in 
Canadian adult education was being tempered by an emerging 
professional ethic. Adult education, at least as it was reflected in 
the CAAE, was to some extent losing the senbC of identity it 



51 



derived from taking a stand on some social issues, and was still 
in the process of reformulating its objectives in response to the 
outlook of a more professional field 

Citizenship education, in a broad sense, continued to be a 
central feature of the CAAE's work during the Kidd years. In his 
first annual report as Director, Roby spoke of the network of 
partnerships with other organizations on which the CAAE relied: 

This concept of the CAAE as a partnership, in fact 
and in the making, working with many organizations 
and interests towards the goal of responsible 
citizenship, is an essential r^cy to an understanding of 
this report (Kidd. 1952, p. 4). 

In his report to the twenty- first anniversary annual 
conference of CAAE in 1956, he returned to the theme of 
citizenship education, saying that adult education is "a basis, 
perhaps the basis, for responsible citizenship." He stressed that the 
Association "must always be found ... in the thick of life's 
urgencies and passions" (Food For Thought 12. 1, p. 13). 

Throughout the Kidd years, the Association continued its 
major citizenship education projects. Farm and Citizens' Forum, 
and the Joint Planning Commission; carried out programs in the 
citizenship education field, often in association with the Canadian 
Citizenship Council and/or the Citizenship Branch of the federal 
government; and promoted informed citizenship through the 
Commission for Continuous Learning and the National Commission 
on the Indian Canadian. Education for citizenship, in the broad 
sense of the term, remained, as it had under Corbett, the core of 
the CAAE's work. 

Another of Roby's priorities was the improvement of practice 
in adult education. With his considerable experience as a 
practitioner, and his advanced training from the most highly 
regarded graduate school in his field, Roby had both thr 
knowledge and the credibility which enabled him to provide 
effective leadership. His efforts towards the improvement of 
practice took two main forms: the advancement of research and 
professional training; and experiment with new forms of 
organization, methods and materials. Both will be dealt with below. 

He also gave priority to helping adult education serve more 
effectively a number of special groups in the population. He 
>yorked actively with the labour movement, giving a great deal of 
time to teaching at union- sponsored courses. He was anxious that 
the CAAE not become the preserve of professional educators, and 
it was because of his influence that two business leaders became 
President of the organization dming his time as Director. He 



66 



52 



worked hard to strengthen ties with allied fields such as 
communications and the arts, using the Association's annual Henry 
Marshall Tory Award, working relationships cultivated through the 
JPC, and other means to maintain contact In these ways, and by 
establishing standing committees of the Association on such areas 
as business and industry, labour, the media, govenmients, and 
school boards, he sought to relate the CAAE's activities to 
important interest groups. 

Beyond the afTairs of the CAAE itself, Roby was one of 
the earliest voices calling for more effective service by adult 
education to certain neglected groups. He expressed these concerns 
by developing specialized programs, and drawing public attention to 
the particular needs of older persons, women, single parents, 
immigrants, prison inmates, and native people. Although the 
Diefenbaker government began looking into these matters in the 
late fifties, the War on Poverty and other consciousness-raising 
activities were still several years ahead — in the mid-sixties. 
When reviewing Roby's work in the fifties, and that of the 
Association as a whole, one is struck by the leadership role which 
was played in this important area. The goals set at that time 
became a prominent feature in the ensuing decade. 

One of the most striking features of Roby's leadership was 
his involvement in international dimensions of adult education. His 
clear commitment to international contacts and assistance appeared 
early in the form of assistance in the Caribbean, the CAAE 
campaign for the creation of a UNESCO Commission in Canada, 
and Roby's increasingly frequent contacts with UhfESCO and other 
international bodies. His eight-month technical assistance mission in 
the West Indies, in 1957-58. gave Roby further experience in the 
problems of developing nations, and increased the confidence with 
which he carried out his international role. His scholarship became 
increasingly well known abroad. This, plus his growing ties with 
UNESCO, his chairmanship of the Adult Education Committee of 
the Worid Confederation of Organizations of the Teaching 
Profession, and m.ost of all. his spectacularly successful leadership 
of the World Conference on Adult Education in Montreal in 1960. 
established Roby. by the end of the decade, as perhaps the best 
known adult educator in the world. 

But Roby's priority task in these years was developing the 
CAAE into an ever-more useful servant of. and participant in. the 
adult education movement His growing prominence, at home and 
abroad, brought credit to the Association, as did his publications. 
His unusual ability to raise funds for worthwhile projects helped 
to increase the effectiveness of the Association, and to expand its 
work and staff. He attracted a number of especially talented 
people to the staff of the Association, and to leadership positions 



67 



53 



in its policy and executive bodies. 

Roby had his critics, as did all Directors. In common with 
almost all organizations which cannot support themselves out of 
fees from their membership, there is an inherent contradiction in 
their affairs. On the one hand, the membership expects to direct 
the activities of the association and establish its priorities. On the 
other hand, so long as the Director raises much of the money, 
especially for the main projects, he must go where that money is 
to be found, often following the lines of his own priorities and 
enthusiasni. In such a situation, there is a danger of the 
membership, and even the policy-making bodies, coming to feel 
that they are not in effective control. Roby was not a 
by- the- book administrator; and he was not always able to keep 
his National Council fully informed. Most colleagues understood 
that the Director must be given his head, and freedom to follow 
up on opportunities which appeared. And most of those involved 
in the Association's affairs were fond of Roby, respected aid 
admired his accomplishments, understood his situation, and were 
willing to "overlook" occasional lapses in communication. But there 
were a few who could not accept his style, or were not willing to 
do so, and who became alienated from him and the Association. 

By and large, however, his leadership of the Association, 
and his many personal accomplishments as scholar, teacher, 
organizer, and international leader, increased the CAAE's 
effectiveness and worked to the benefit of both the Association, 
and the movement as a whole. He was a man of many parts, 
with a prodigious capacity for work, and an unusual ability to 
relate to, and attract, the adnr.iration of others. His contributions 
to adult education, and to the CAAE in this period were 
impressive. 



The CAAE 1951-1961: Organization 
Administration and Staff 

The CAAE went through a period of considerable growth and 
development during Roby's years as Director. He was anxious that 
it not become tied in only with the educationaJ institutions of the 
country, much as he valued those associations. Therefore, he made 
substantial efforts to engage additional representatives of society in 
the work — people drawn from business and industry, organized 
labour, government services, other professions, and voluntary 
organizations. Of the five Association Presidents who served during 
the decade of Roby's directorship, two were businessmen, two were 
university presidents, and one an adult education administrator (and 
Canadian Senator). 



68 



54 



Soon after Roby took over as Director, the Association's 
overcrowded Toronto offices moved to more spacious quaners. 
Furthermore, an improved pension and fringe benefit package was 
arranged for the staff with the assistance of the President, an 
experienced businessman (CAAE NC Nov. 24, 1951; Exec. Jam. 10, 
1952). 

Finances were a constant concern for the Association. The 
Finance Conraiittee, chaired for most of the period by H. H. 
Edmison, performed steady service in securing and maintaining 
donations from corporations, provincial governments, and individuals. 
The Association budget more thaii tripled in the Kidd years, with 
a deficit only once — a modest one. Membership was maintained 
at a fairly satisfactory level; but membership did not help the net 
financial picture, although campaigns were carried out from time 
to time. On the program side, Roby was very successful raising 
funds foi projects. During this period two American foundations — 
the Carnegie and the Fund for Adult Education — and 
departments of the federsil government, notably the Citizenship 
Branch, were the sources from which he obtained the largest 
grants. Gradually, Roby gained the reputation of being a wizard at 
raising money. Perhaps one key to his success was the fact that 
he and the CAAE became known for achieving a great deal on 
slender resources. Roby revealed to close colleagues that an 
American foxmdation executive claimed the CAAE could do more 
with a dollar than any other organization he knew. Project grants 
were used principally for paying out-of-pocket costs, with only 
modest amounts, if any, covering administrative overhead. What 
made the system work as well as it did was the fact that in 
some of the larger grants, Roby built staff time (mainly his own) 
into the projects to be carried out He frequently "sold" his time 
several times over for such projects, which was fine so long as he 
could deliver. This he did, by virtue of prodigious effort and 
productivity and, to a lesser extent, that of some of the other 
professional staff. 

The size of the Association staff grew considerably as 
revenue increased, much of it frorr project grants. Isabel Wilson 
served throughout the decade. Citizens' Forum being her chief 
assignment There was always an editor for Food for Thought, the 
Association's journal, six different persons serving in that capacity. 
TTiree extremely capable people served as assistant directors during 
the Kidd years: Alan Thomas (1953-55), Gordon Hawkins 
(1955-59), and Arthur Pigott (1960-61). Among other key staff 
members were Diana Ironside, who managed the library, research, 
and information services, and Clare Clark, who took over staffing 
the Joint Planning Commission upon Roby's becoming Director. 



55 



Regional Development and Structure 

The organizational structure of the CAAE remained basically the 
same throughout the Kidd years, but some modifications were 
made to accommodate regional and provincial interests. In this 
respect, perhaps, the affairs of the CAAE anticipated developments 
in the larger society, with the emergence of regional and 
provincial claims, which became so prominent in the sixties. 

The constitution, as is customary with voluntary assocations, 
vested ultimate control over its activities in the membership, as 
expressed by ballot and at the annual meetings. Between annual 
meetings, policy matters were directed by a National Council. At 
first, it was simply left to the good judgement of the nominating 
committee and the membership to see that there was satisfactory 
representation from across the country on the Council. Soon after 
Roby became Director, however, he urged that more deliberate 
provision be made. At the annual meeting in 1951, the size of the 
Council was increased, and a formula written into the constitution 
whereby it would be made up of 24 persons from the Central 
Provinces, 16 from the Atlantic region, and 16 from the West 
(CAAE AM April 27, 1951). Between meetings of the National 
Council, which normally met three times a year, the affairs of the 
Association were managed by a small Executive Committee, the 
Director, and staff. 

One of the most important developments during Roby's time, 
and an aspect of the work to which he gave vigorous leadership, 
was the emergence of regional activities and provincial 
organizations of adult educators. There had been a few relatively 
short-lived organizations of this kind in the earlier years, one in 
Winnipeg in the mid- thirties (Selman, 1963, p. 320), in Ontario 
and the Eastern Townships of Quebec in the early forties {Food 
For Thought I. 5, p. 19; FFT, 2. 3, pp. 18-19) and in Alberta 
beginning in 1943 (Bercusson, 1944), but by the late forties no 
such organizations were functioning. Because of the growth of the 
field across the country, and the increased numbers of institutions, 
programs, and persormel involved, in late 1950 a practice was 
begim of holding national CAAE conferences on even- numbered 
years, and of holding regional meetings on the alternative years 
(CAAE Exec. Nov. 4, 1950). The aim was, by means of such 
regional meetings, to provide in-service development opportunities 
for adult educators in the regions, and to promote the general 
developmerit of adult education in those areas as well. 

As it turned out, organizational developments were quite 
different in the two regions. East and West (There v/as one 
Ontario region conference during the period, but apparently the 
national meetings and conferences generally met the needs of ihe 
region). In the Atlantic provinces, regional conferences weie held 



56 



every second year throughout the decade, but no provincial 
organizations resulted. In the West, provincial adult education 
bodies were formed, and there was discussion about a Western 
regional organization as well. 

The first regional conference under CAAE auspices was held 
at Amherst, Nova Scotia, in June of 1951. Subsequent meetings in 
the Man times were held at two-year intervals at Antigonish (1953), 
Charlottetown (1955), Sackville (1957), and Bathurst (1959). They 
concentrated largely on matters of professional interest such as 
inter- agency co-ordination, the development process, and the 
unique nature of the Maritimes region. 

In the West, the first regional conference was nof held until 
1953 and already, according to the report of the Director of the 
National Council shortly before the meeting, committees had been 
established to study "organization in the provinces" (CAAE NC 
May 19, 1953). At this first Western conference, held in Banff, and 
the subsequent ones in Saskatoon (1955), and Banff (1957 and 
1959), the establishment of provincial organizations and their 
relationship to the CAAE were the dominant focus of attention. 
Provincial organizations were formed in British Columbia and 
Manitoba during the decade, and the other two provinces held 
occasional provincial meetings (Selman, 1969). Out of discussions at 
the Western meetings came proposals for a more direct 
relationship between the provinciaJ organizations and the national 
body. At the annual meeting in 1958, constitutional amendments 
were approved under which afUliated provincial bodies became 
responsible for the nominations of those from their area who were 
running for membership on the National Council, and also became 
entitled to name their own representative to the Council (CAAE 
AM May 23, 1958). In the following year, the relationship with 
the provinces was augmented by designating the National Council 
members from each province as an informal "CAAE Executive" 
for the area. 

Although no further change in the relationship between the 
CAAE and the provincial organizations was made during Roby's 
directorship, change was very much in the air by the time he 
left In the early sixties, the constitution of the national body was 
considerably revised, providing for a unitary national organization 
with provincial divisions rather than the previous system of 
provincial afliliates. 

In all of these discussions during the decade, Roby Kidd, 
and while he was on the staff, often Gordon Hawkins, played a 
prominent part in these regional and provincial meetings, 
encouraging local and regional initiative, and facilitating the 
changes in the national organization which were required to 
accommodate regional aspirations (Selman, 1982). 



71 



57 



The CAAE 1951-1961: Program 
Farm Forum and Citizens* Forum 

National Farm Radio Forum and Citizens* Forum were creations 
of the pre-Kidd period and were already well known 
internationally by the time Roby became Director of the 
Association. In his introduction to Adidt Education in Canada, 
published in 1950, E. A. Corbett stated that at the World 
Conference in Demnark the year before, "every English-speaking 
delegate" was familiar with "the new techniques in radio education 
developed through National Farm Radio Forum" (Kidd, 1950, xi). 
In terms of the affairs and apportionment of resources of the 
Association, the two Fonun projects lost something of their 
dominance during the decade. Roby believed in their importance, 
an aspect of his strong sense of the centrality of citizenship 
education as a function of the field, but it was only natural that 
as new programs and new goals for the Association appeared, they 
should claim attention. Both programs were in a period of decline 
by the end of the decade, and their years were numbered. 

National Faim Radio Forum was the older of the two 
programs and the best known. After his retirement from the 
directorship, Corbett was still active on behalf of the Association, 
aiid one assignment he took on was representing it on the Board 
of Farm Forum. Because of the involvement of the Canadian 
Federation of Agriculture in the management of Farm Forum, 
there was an independent governing board; it was not an integral 
part of the CAAE in the same way that Citizens* Forum was. 

The period of the fifties was for the most part one of 
continued relatively high level of activity for Farm Forum, but 
there was a gradual decline in the number of listening groups. 
The highest level of activity had preceded Roby*s years as 
Director; in 1948-49 there were 1,600 listening groups, with 
approximately 30,000 members (Ohliger, 1967, p. 42). By the early 
fifties, the number of forums hovered between 900 and 1,000 
(Farm Forum News 1952; Wilson et al.. 1954). By 1957-68. the 
figure was down to 772, and the following year to 600 (CAAE 
DR 1958). In 1958, considerable efforts were made to reverse the 
trend, but although initial results were encouraging, the decline set 
in again (Ohliger, 1967). 

One significant event of the decade was the commissioning 
by UNESCO in 1951 of a study about Farm Forum, the purpose 
of which was to make the project widely known in the 
international community, for possible application in the developing 
countries. UNESCO put $16,000 into the project, and other funds 
were raised elsewhere (CAAE Exec. Nov. 23, 1951). The volume 
was prepared by Alex Sim, the pioneer of the project in Canada, 



72 



58 



and was published in 1954 under the title Canada's Farm Radio 
Forum. 

Citizens' Forum continued j operate throughout the decade as 
well, but on a declining soue, as far as the number of organized 
listening groups was concerned. Having reached a high of 1,215 
groups in its first year and 800 the next (1944), the number 
declined until it stood at 400 for several years in the late forties 
and early fifties. Decline set in again during the fifties (Wilson, 
1980, p. 28). In 1953, there were 315 groups functioning, and the 
following year the number dropped off to 200. Television had 
begun on a national scale in 1952, and the system got up to full 
production the following year. It was felt that if Citizens' Forum 
was to continue to attract an audience, which went far beyond the 
organized listening groups, it would have to go on television as 
well. The broadcast was moved out of prime time, to the 10:00 to 
10:30 p.m. time slot; too late for its* use in the usual way as 
discussion starter for listening groups, and then moved to Sunday 
afternoons. 

By the end of the 1958-59 season, there were between 40 
and 60 discussion groups functioning. The television version was 
clearly ^ reaching a larger audience than radio had, and the volume 
of mail from listeners about the programs had increased greatly, 
but the broadcasts now mentioned only the national office, and 
the number of listening groups did not justify maintaining 
provincial offices. In 1963-64, after many trials and experiments 
with format, and increasing signs of lack of interest in the 
arrangement with CAAE on the part of the CBC, Citizens' Forum 
lost even its long- standing title, which was changed to "The 
Sixties," and the radio version was converted to an open line 
show. The program had thereby been changed out of all 
recognition and for all practical purposes ceased to exist 

Joint Planning Commission 

The Joint Planning Commission had a special place in the heart 
of Roby Kidd. When he joined the staff of the organization in 
1947, his chief assignment was to act as the founding executive 
secretary of the project, and he saw it through its formative years, 
relinquishing the task when he became Director of the Association 
in 1951. The origins of the JPC have been described elsewhere 
(Clark, 1954; Selman, 1981). The Commission was an imaginative 
approach to voluntary co-ordination and consultation at the 
national level among agencies, public and private, concerned with 
adult education, and social and cultural development The 
biographer of John Robbins, a co- founder of the Commission 
along with Corbett. has called it an instrument of "the social 
growth of Canada" (McLeish, 1978, p. 103). 



73 



59 



The JPC was active throughout Roby*s years at the CAAE. 
There was a regular pattern of three meetings a year, usually in 
Toronto, Ottawa, and Montreal, through which programming and 
publication plans were exchanged, and significant issues studied and 
debated. Meetings were attended by representatives of more than a 
hundred government departments, crown corporations, voluntary, 
church, business, labour, health and welfare, cultural, and, of 
course, educational organisations. 

The JPC was not a "membership** organization in the 
normal sense; this would have been awkward for some of the 
organizations, especially the public agencies. Organizations simply 
took part on a regular basis if participation was useful to them. 
The JPC was stafTed by the CAAE, which was at the same time 
the organizer, and one among equals as a participant The JPC 
was not a social action body. The understanding was that no 
organization, by virtue of its participation in the Commission, 
would be committed to social action measures. However, many 
organizations, singly or in co- operation with others, did take action 
on issues, at least partly on the basis of insights and information 
gained through the JPC meetings, committee activities, or special 
projects. 

When the original grant from the Carnegie Corporation, 
which had made the orgaruzation of the JPC possible, ran out in 
1949, Carnegie was appealed to again and a further $22,500 was 
made available, not for general administration this time, but for 
special projects and experiments which grew out of the work of 
the Conunission. 

The JPC did not long survive the change in leadership in 
the Association after Roby left, being disbanded two years later. 
By any standard, the Commission was a highly successful venture. 
It succeeded where many such organizations had failed. The JPC 
was the subject of study by many visitors from elsewhere in 
North America and abroad (Clark, 1954), and is generally 
considered to be one of Ned Corbett*s major contributions to the 
field, and one of the CAAE*s, and Canada *s, significant 
achievements in adult education. Corbett and others created it 
Roby was a key figure in making it work successfully. 

Study- Discussion Programs and the Fund for Adult Education 

Funds for program activities, as for everything else at the CAAE, 
were always in short supply. The main body of the CAAE*s 
activities did not involve direct service to adult learners. As Roby 
put it on one occasion, "We are a national organization working 
with and through others" (CAAE DR 1956). The two Forum 
projects were in some respects exceptions to this, as were a 
number of demonstration projects which were undertaken from 




60 



time to time. During the Kidd years, much of this demonstration 
work was made possible by grants from an American foundation 
the Fund for Adult EducaUon (FAE), a subsidiary of the Ford 
Foundation. 

In the summer of 1951, Roby engaged in successful 
negouauons with the FAE, and he placed before the Executive in 
September an outline of various projects which would be carried 
out under a series of grants from that organiMtion, a series of 
pamphlets published under the title Learning for Living being the 
outstanding item. The Fund also had a particular interest in the 
small group or study group as a setting for learning, and in the 
late forties had begun to finance the development of study 
materials suitable for such groups, through such organizations as 
tfie Great Books Foundation, and the American Foundation for 
Political Education. In Canada, small group study activity was 
already a familiar part of the scene. The two CAAE-CBC Forum 
projects relied on discussion in small groups, and the well known 
Antigonish Movement, in Nova Scotia, also depended on small 
group study. Because of the considerable experience and reputation 
of the CAAE in the management of programs involving small 
group activity, it was perhaps not difTicult to convince the officers 
of the FAE that the CAAE was a suitable partner for some of 
Its programs involving that method. 

Late in 1953, Roby reported to the Executive that a grant 
of $12,500 had been secured from the FAE to finance an 
experimental discussion project, and thpt Alan Thomas had been 
employed to carry out the work (CAAE Exec. Nov. 3, 1953). In 
the subsequent year and a half, Thomas organized and supervised 
demonstration groups which followed one of three different 
programs which had been underwritten by the FAE The courses 
were generally known as study- discussion programs, the participants 
being required to read materials in advance of the session and 
then to come together and discuss them, under the leadership of 
a person who was not an expert in the subject matter, but had 
been given some training in the leadership of such group 
discussion. 

In 1955, Roby secured a further $35,000 grant from the 
FAE, which was to be paid over a three year period, and would 
be used mainly for the promotion of study- discussion courses in 
the liberal arts. He formed a new unit within the CAAE, the 
Commission for Continuous Learning, and employed a full-time 
staff member to direct the work (CAAE NC Dec. 6, 1956). Thus 
began a project which continued until the summer of 1961 
changing its name to Living Library, and limiUng its functions 
somewhat in 1960. The work involved the CAAE in a long-term 
demonstration project, the development of Canadian courses, and 



61 



the general promotion of study- discussion courses across the 
country. Under this project, the CAfi.E prepared or commissioned 
several study- discussion courses based on Canadian materials. In 
addition, the project continued to use programs such as Ways of 
Mankind, and World Politics, which had been developed elsewhere. 

The CAAE project also acted as a sort of clearing-house 
for several other organizations in Canada which were running 
study- discussion courses in the liberal arts, including the Thomas 
More Institute in Montreal, the North Toronto YMCA, 
Saskatchewan House in Regina, and the Extension Department of 
the University of British Columbia, Courses developed by the 
CAAE, or elsewhere in Canada, were made available to all these 
Canadian centres by means of this network; and representatives of 
these centres met from time to time. 

Other Programs 

In addition to the major projects described above, the CAAE 
carried out many other program activities. The most substantial of 
these was the National Commission on the Indian Canadian, which 
was created under CAAE auspices in 1957. and carried out its 
work until 1960, when it became an autonomous organization. In 
the late 1950s, Canadians began to take a heightened interest in 
the problems of native people. Indian and Eskimo. In their history 
of education in Canada, Wilson and associates date the upswing of 
government attention to educational needs in the North from 1955 
(Wilson et al., 1970, pp. 459-460) and Bothwell et al.. in their 
general history of the period, point out that the new Diefenbaker 
government, elected in 1957. spoke of its "Northern Vision" and 
gave increased attention to Indian and Eskimo education (Bothwell 
et al., 1981, p. 201). The voluntary sector responded in this same 
period, and the CAAE established a unit to give special and 
continuing attention to the area. After two years of study, and an 
organizational conference held in Kingston in June of 1956, the 
National Conmiission on the Indian Canadian was constituted. 
ofTicially a standing committee of the CAA]e Activities included 
clearing-house and information services, the publication of a 
newsletter, research activities, periodic meetings and conferences, 
and various forms of advocacy activity. It had been intended from 
the beginning that the Commission's status under the umbrella of 
the CAAE would be only an interim stage, prior to the group 
going out on its own. This latter step was taken in January of 
1960. with the creation of the Indian- Eskimo Association of 
Canada. 

Roby Kidd had a particular interest in labour education, and 
frequently taught at labour- sponsored courses. In late 1956, an 
important conference on Trade Union Education was held under 



76 



62 



CAAE auspices. Similarly, Roby made an efTort to kp'.p in active 
liaison with the business sector. In 1956, several Presiaent's Awards 
were made to certain businesses for outstanding records in 
"effective education of the public" (CAAE DR 1956); and in 1958, 
a standing committee on business and adult education, jointly 
sponsored with the Canadian Chamber of Commerce, was created 
(CAAE Exec. Dec. 5, 1958). A study of education in corporations 
was carried out in 1959. 

Over and above the principal citizenship education projects 
such as the Forums and the .IPC, the Association engaged in 
other work. A close relationship was maintained with the 
Citizenship Branch of the federal government; and with several 
people, who had been active with the CAAE, who were now 
holding responsible positions in the Branch. Many grants were 
obtained from that source over the years, beginning in 1953, for 
financing meetings, and for the production of program materials 
and state of the art reports. In the year 1958-59, for instance, 
grants from the Branch financed a major conference and study of 
residential adult education in Canada (Loosley, 1960); a series of 
eight research papers on voluntary action; a series of 
study- discussion readings on constitution and government; an 
annotated list of Canadian fiction which bore on citizenship 
matters; and a collection of tapes and kinescopes r aspects of 
citizenship. The Citizenship Branch provided more grants for 
projects than any other agency during the Kidd years. 

There was quite a highly developed system of standing 
committees in the Association, especially in the latter years of the 
decade. In 1958-59, there were eleven such committees in the 
management category, and six in charge of activities. These 
committees, especially the latter category, frequently organized or 
initiated programs. For instance, the committees on Rural 
Extension, School Boards, Governments, and Residential Education 
all had major meetings in the program year 1958-59. 

The CAAE and the Canadian Citizenship Council were the 
first orgeuiizations in Canada to begin mobilizing other groups in 
connection with the celebration of Canada's centenary. In 1959, and 
again the following year, the two organizations jointly arranged 
conferences on the subject, which were attended by representatives 
from both the voluntary and the public sectors. 

As the twenty- first anniversary of the founding of the 
CAAE approached, plans were made for recognition of the event 
The most ambitious project was a cross-country tour made by J. 
B. Priestly, the English writer and broadcaster, who spoke to five 
public meetings, in Toronto, Ottawa, Winnipeg, Edmonton, and 
Vancouver, joined in each location by two outstanding people from 
the region. A total of 4,000 people attended the meetings, and 



63 



many more saw television interviews and read press accounts in 
each centre (CAAE Exec. May 11, 1956). Several significant 
publications were issued, including one published jointly with the 
national adult education bodies in the USA and Great Britain — 
excerpts from the well known 1919 Report of the British Ministry 
of Reconstruction (Hawkins, 1956). 



The CAAE and the Development of the Field 1951-1961 
Professional Training and Research 

One of the most remarkable developments in adult education 
during Roby's directorship, and one to which he gave effective 
leadership personally, was the creation of increased opportunities 
for professional training for workers in the field. Roby missed no 
chance to emphasize the importance of training and staff 
development Not only did he teach courses himself, he also 
spoke frequently of the importance of training, and sought funds 
to enable selected persons to obtain it He gave prominence of 
place in many CAAE conferences to examination of training needs, 
and he used the pages of Food for Thought for emphasizing the 
importance of training and publicizing the opportunities available. 
Through his own writings, he contributed in various ways to the 
literature of adu". education. The Kidd years may property be 
seen as ones during which adult education in Canada emerged as 
a professional discipline; and Roby undoubtedly made by far the 
most significant single contribution to that development 

A short time after Roby joined the staff of the CAAE, and 
presumably as a result of his influence, the Association set up a 
Committee on Personnel in Adult Education which functioned for 
several years. The committee carried out a study in 1948 which 
indicated that out of 86 full-time adult educators surveyed, only 
two reported having any training, even a single course, specifically 
in adult education. In a preliminary report issued in 1948, the 
committee called for "a full graduate program to be given in one 
or more imiversities" (Kidd, 1950, p. 19). 

Roby and the CAAE were active in non-credit professional 
training. He helped teach at the first such course that took place 
in the West, a ten-day institute on Extension Methods and 
Techniques held at Banff in the fall of 1949, and attended by 80 
adult educators (Extension Short Course 1949). In 1951, the CAAE 
secured a two-year grant of $14,000 from Carnegie which made 
possible a project in Newfoundland for programming the outports. 
Under that project, a three- week intensive training course for rural 
workers was held in St John's in January of 1952. The first 
training course for tne Atlantic region as a whole was held in 



7S 



64 



March of 1958, under CAAE sponsorship (Professional Training, 
195o). 

Roby taught the first credit course in adult education in at 
least four universities. One of these, at the University of British 
Columbia in the summer of 1956, led to the creation of a 
masters degree program at that institution. This began in 1957 
and became the first degree program in the field in Canada. By 
that time, seven universities in the country were giving credit 
cotoses in adult education. 

Another aspect of the field's emerging professional status, 
and of the CAAE's leadership in this area, was the work of the 
Association's library and information services. With the assistance 
of Diana Ironside, after she joined the staff in 1955, the 
organization began to strengthen its services, and took increasing 
responsibility for cataloguing research work in adult education. 
Through the pages of the Association's journal, and by means of 
such publications as a Bibliography of Canadian Writings in Adult 
Education (Thomson & Ironside, 1956), the CAAE helped to 
mcrease the accessibility of the literature of the field. Roby's 
attempts to secure grant funds for the information services of the 
Association were successful in 1960, when $7,500 was obtained 
from the Atkinson Charitable Foundation in order to strengthen 
library and information work (CAAE NC Jan. 20, 1961). 

Provincial Governments and Schools Boards 

In the fifties, provincial government involvement in adult education 
increased greatly, and many school boards entered the field for 
the first time. Roby and the CAAE invested considerable effort to 
this end. An indication of the growth of interest on the part of 
governments during this period is revealed by the fact that, 
whereas in 1945 only one province, Saskatchewan, had a division 
of adult education within its department of education, by 1957, 
seven provinces had created such units (Canadian Education 
Assoaation, 1961, p. 4). By 1961, every province had taken that 
step (KJdd, 1961, p. 21). In their general history of education in 
Canada, J. D. Wilson and associates refer to this period as one 
m which adult education "lost much of its amateur status," and 
they link that development to the assumption of responsibility in 
adult education by the provincial ministries (Wilson et al., 1970, p. 
412). The CAAE promoted the growth of government and school 
board- sponsored adult education work by various means: 
discussions at CAAE conferences concerning the role and 
responsibilities of goverrmients in this field; the creation of 
committees of the CAAE on provincial governments and school 
boards in the field; the sponsorship of meetings and conferences 
about the matter; and the cultivation, by means of visits and 



65 



correspondence, of relationships with department of education 
officials across the country. 

Publications 

The CAAE was by far the most important publisher of materials 
about adult education during this period. A few books were 
published elsewhere, but these were exceptions. The CAAE's 
efforts included the publication of its journal. Food for Thought, 
pamphl ets, and oth er occasional pieces, and full 1 ength books. 
Pamphlets included the Citizens* Forum weekly publications 
(cumulatively, a very valuable documentation of public affairs 
issues in the period), the series of eleven pamphlets published in 
the 1952-54 period under the general title of Learning for Living, 
and at least twenty other individual pamphlets, on various topics. 
There were several book length studies: Roby*s two volumes of 
readings about adult education in Canada published in 1950 and 
1963; a study of Adult Education in the Canadian University 
(1956), and Adult Education in the Caribbean (1958), both written 
by Roby: and Design for Democracy (Hawkins, 1956), a selection 
of excerpts from the 1919 Report of the British Ministry of 
Reconstruction, prepared largely by Gordon Hawkins. 

Advocacy 

The CAAE had been active in an advocacy role on behalf of 
adult education throughout its history. Education being 
predominantly a provincial concern constitutionally, one of the 
important functions of a national organization was to speak out on 
issues at the national level, which potentially had impact on adult 
learning and access to educational opportunities. During the 
Corbett years, initiatives on the part of the CAAE had dealt with 
such matters as federal- provincial relations, economic, 
communications, and cultural policy (Selman, 1981, pp. 33-35). 

The major activity during Roby*s time consisted of follow-up 
on the Massey Commission on National Development in the Arts, 
Letters and Sciences. Briefs were also submitted to the 
Commission on Canada's Economic Prospects, and the Commission 
on Broadcasting (both in 1956), and to the Senate Committee on 
Manpower and Employment (1961). In addition, representations were 
made from time to time to the Prime Minister's Office, or 
through other cabinet ministers, in continued efforts to obtain 
federal financial support for the Association, but these efforts did 
not bear fruit in this period. (See CAAE NC May 26, 1954, for 
instance). 

The report of the Massey Conmiission was a landmark 
document in terms c. cultural policy in Canada (Ostry, 1978, p. 
64), and gave grounds for satisfaction in the CAAE, whose views 



so 



66 



generally were supported, and whose activities were mentioned and 
praised several times in the report (Canada 1951, p. 37, pp. 
74-75). The CAAE, by every means at its disposal, pressed the 
government to implement the commission's recommendations. They 
emphasized particularly the creation of the Canada Council, and 
perhaps even more strongly, the creation of a National 
Commission for UNESCO, a measure for which Roby and the 
Association had been arguing for some time. When the 
government announced, late in 1956, that it was moving on the 
matter, the news was greeted enthusiastically in Food for Thought 
(Jubilation, 1957; National Commission, 1957), and it was hailed 
that the first chairman of the UNESCO Commission was the 
current President of the CAAE, N. A. M. MacKenzie. 



Roby Kidd and International Conunitments 

There are accounts in other chapters of Roby's activities at the 
international level, and the story need not be repeated here. Any 
description of his role as Director of the CAAE from 1951 to 1961 
must, however, make reference to this aspect of his activity. It 
was during the fifties that he emerged on the international scene, 
began to gaun experience in the work of international organizations, 
and acquired more knowledge of adult education and development 
in Third World countries. Through these and other activities, and 
especially because of his prominence in the planning, and as 
President, of the Second UNESCO Worid Conference on Adult 
Education held in Montreal in 1960, Roby won a very high 
reputation internationally. By the end of the decade, he had 
become one of the best known adult educf^ors in the world 
(Selman, 1982). As he gained stature on the basis of his 
international work, he became all the better able to provide 
leadership in the field of in Canada. 



The Writings of Roby Kidd 

One of the most remarkable things about Roby, during his years 
with the CAAE, was his capacity to produce such a quantity of 
useful writing for adult education. It was difTicult for anyone, 
perhaps, other than members of his immediate family, to imagine 
when he did it In days — and years — full of administrative 
detail, meetings, fund- raising, conferences, extensive travel both 
inside Canada, and, increasingly as the decade progressed, outside 
as well, together with all the other demands made on an 
organizational executive serving a far- flung field, he somehow 



81 



67 



managed to be the most prolific and useful writer in the field, 
certainly in Canada, perhaps anywhere. Between 1950 and 1963. he 
wrote or compiled eight books, seven substantial pamphlets, and an 
unknown number of articles, reports, briefs, and other papers. 

His writing, on the whole, is not outstanding for its powers 
of expression, sdthough there were flashes of eloquence. He 
frequently articulated powerful ideas with brevity and modesty, 
tucked in amidst other material. What was outstanding about much 
of his writing was his power of organization, and the way in 
which he integrated new concepts and theories into his views of 
adult education* 

His contributions were important from several points of view. 
In Canadian terms, his two books of readings about the field 
(1950. 1963). and some of his pamphlets, helped give many 
practioners a sense of the significance of their vocation, and pride 
in their country's achievements. His textbook for adult education 
(1959) was the first, and only, one written in Canada. The work 
has been widely used in other countries, and was translated into 
several other languages. His study of adult education in the City 
of Toronto (1961b) was the only thorough examination of adult 
education at the mimicipal level ever carried out in Canada. His 
long pamphlet (1961) prepared for the 1962 Canadian Conference 
on Education was a significant effort to bring the nature and the 
needs of adult education to the attention of officials and scholars 
in the rest of the field of education. 

In a monograph in which he described the three World 
Conferences on adult education (Kidd. 1974). Roby used a 
quotation from All's Well that Ends Well, in referring to the 
field: 

Our doubts are traitors 

And make us lose the good we oft might win 
By fearing to attempt 

Part of Roby*s success as leader of, and advocate for. adult 
education was his deep belief in its importance, and his confidence 
in fighting for its interests. A man who worked closely with Roby 
in these years. Walter Herbert (who was the longtime chairman of 
the JPC). has said that during Roby's time studying at Columbia, 
he rubbed shoulders with American leaders, and the officers of 
some of the large foundations, and that he learned "to think big 
about adult education" (Herbert. 1959. p. 14). Roby constantly tried 
to persuade his Canadian colleagues of the richness of Canada's 
accomplishments in adult education, and of the field's rightful 
claim to more substantial recognition and support In the 
introduction to one of Roby's pamphlets, published early in the 



82 



68 



fifties, the writer stated that it was "recommended reading for 
pessimists" (Kidd, 1953, p. 4) because of the life, promise, and 
challenge reflected in it The same may be said of Roby himself. 
He thought big about adult education, and he invited others to do 
so as well. 

When Roby Kidd inherited the leadership of the CAAE, 
that organization had already accomplished great things, and was 
highly regarded, mainly for its programs. By 1961, when he left 
his post as Director of the Association, the CAAE enjoyed an 
even higher reputation, in both programming and other areas of 
professional concern, both at home and abroad. That this was so 
was in large part recognition of Roby Kidd as a person, his 
qualities, and accomplishments. 



References 

Where reference is made in the text to CAAE minutes and 
reports, the following abbreviations are used, accompanied by the 
appropriate date: Annual Meetings - AM; National Council - 
NC; Executive Committee - Exec; Director's Annual Report - 



Armstrong. D. P. (1968). Corbett's house: The origins of the 
Canadian Association for Adult Education and its 
development during the directorship of E. A. Corbett 
1936-195L Unpublished master's thesis. University of 
Toronto. 

Bercusson. L. (1944). First steps in Alberta. Food for thought. 4. 
(9). June. 14^16. 

Bothwell. R.. Drummond. I.. English. J. (1981). Canada since 1945. 

Toronto: University of Toronto Pre^.^ 
Clark. C. (1954). Joint Planning Commission. Toronto: Canadian 

Association for Adult Education. 
Corbett. E. A^ (1957). We have with us tonight. Toronto: Ryerson. 
Paris. R. (1975). The passionate educators. Toronto: Peter Martin., 
Hawkins, G. (1956). Design for democracy. London: Max Parrish. 
Herbert. W. B. (1959). Profile: J. R. Kidd. Food for thought. 2SL 

(1). SepL-Oct 12-59. 
Kidd. J. R. (Ed.) (1950). Adult education in Canada. Toronto: 

Canadian Association for Adult Education. 
(1952). A kind of partnership. Food for thought. JJ. (1). Oct 

4-7. 

(1953). Pictures with a purpose. Toronto: Canadian Association 

for Adult Education. 
(1956). Adult education in the Canadian university Toronto: 



69 



Canadian Association for ndull Education. 
Kidd, J. R. (1958). Adult education in the Caribbean: The 
extra- mural department of the U niversity College of the 
West Indies. Toronto: Canadian Association for Adult 
Education. 

(1959). How adults learru New York: Association Press. 

(1961). Continuing education. Ottawa: Canadian Conference on 

Education. 

(1961b). J 8 to 80: Continuing education in Metropolitan 

Toronto, Toronto: Toronto Board of Education. 

(Ed.) (1963). Learning and scciet y. Toronto: Canadian 

Association for Adult Education. 

(1974). A tale of three cities: Elsinore- Montreal-^Tokyo: the 

influenr r of three UNESCO World Conferences upon the 
development of adult education, Syracuse: University of 
Syracuse. 

Loosley, E (1960). Residential adult education: a Canadian view. 

Toronto: Canadian Association for Adult Education. 
McLeish, J. A. B. (1978). A Canadian for all seasons. Toronto: 

Lester and Orpen. 
National Commission for UNESCO. Food for thought. 18. (1). 

Sept-Oct. 44-45. 

Ohliger, J. (1967). Listening groups: mass media in adult education. 

Boston: Center for Study of Liberal Education for Adults. 
Ostry. B. (1978). The cultural connection. Toronto: McClelland and 

Stewart 

Professional Training. (1958). Food for thought. 18. (8). May-June. 
405. 

Selman, G. R. (1963). A history of the extension and adult 
education services of the University of British Columbia, 1915 
to 1955. Unpublished master's thesis. University of British 
Columbia. 

(1969). Toward co- operation: the development of a provincial 

voice for adult education in British Columbia, 1953 to 1962. 
(Occasional Papers in Continuing Education. No. 3). 
University of British Columbia Centre for Continuing 
Education. 

(1981). The Canadian Association for Adult Education in the 

Corbett years: A re- evaluation. (Occasional Papers in 
Continuing Education. No. 20). University of British 
Columbia Centre for Continuing Education. 

(1982). Roby Kidd and the Canadian Association for Adult 

Education 1951-1961. (Occasional Papers in Continuing 
Education. No. 22). University of British Columbia Centre 
for Continuing Education. 

Thomson, M. & Ironside, D. (1956). A bibliography of Canadian 



84 



70 



writings in adult education. Toronto: Canadian Association 

for Adult Education. 
Wilson, I. (1980), Citizen's Forum: Canadcfs national platform. 

Toronto: Ontario Institute for Studies in Education. 
Wilson, I., Peers. R, McKenzie, R., Houle, J-P. (1954). Education 

in public affairs by radio. Toronto: Canadian Association for 

Adult Education. 

Wilson, J. D., Stamp. R. M., Audet, L, (Ed.) (1970), Canadian 
education: a history. Scarborough: Prentice- Hall. 



85 



CHAPTER 5 



ROBY XroD AND THE MOVE TO PROFESSIONAL STATUS 
OF ADULT EDUCATION 

Gordon Selman 

A frequently made observation over the past few decades, is that 
adult education has become less of a movement and more of a 
profession (Campbell, 1977; Cotton, 1968; Selman & Kulich. 1980). 
By this is meant that the leadership of the field, which at one 
time saw adult education largely as a means of improving society, 
now tends to see it as a field of expertise, the gc^ of which is 
to deliver high standard programs and services to individuals, on 
demand. No one would claim that the practice of adult education 
has become fully professional; and many would argue that a move 
towards that end does not necessarily involve a loss of interest in 
the social impact of the field. But most observers do agree that 
the trend is towards professional status. 

This tendency is jgenerally regarded as a beneficial one. 
Whether adult education is seen to be of benefit to the individual 
learner, the broader society, or both, it is generally agreed that 
the practitioner should be as expert as possible in performing his 
or her role. The teacher of adults should be knowledgeable about 
learning theory, and be able to plan and carry out instruction in 
the way best calculated to facilitate learning. Similarly, the 
program planner should be competent at needs analysis, objective 
setting, the selection of appropriate methods and techniques, and 
the conduct of evaluation. A great deal has been learned about 
these matters over the last few decades, and training of adult 
educators has been a rapidly expanding activity. There are those 
who feel that we have been more successful in imparting expertise 
in the processes of adult education than in stimulating 
consideration of the field's aims and goals, and this debate 
presumably will continue. Roby Kidd would have us pay attention 
to both. Roby was initially a product of the movement dimension 
of the field. He gained his early knowledge and experience of 
adult education in a voluntary agency, the YMCA, an organization 
witli social and religious as well as educational goals. He learned 



86 



72 



on the job and it was not until he took a course on adult 
education at Sir George Williams College (as it then was), during 
his part-time studies towards his B.A. degree, that he was first 
introduced to the formal study of the field (Selman, 1982). These 
and other experiences led him, a decade later, to seek a doctoral 
degree in adult education. It is abundantly clear from his 
subsequent career that he was committed to both the professional 
competence and philosophical purpose of his chosen field. 

Roby's contributions towards putting adult education on a 
professional footing may be considered in three main categories. 
The first is comprised of his efforts to convince both adult 
educators themselves, and the agencies and govenunents which 
employed them, of the fact that there were important things 
which should be known by those engaged in adult education. The 
second has to do with the organization of the field in terms of 
the associations of adult educators. And the third includes all the 
activities undertaken by Roby to contribute to the training of adult 
educators, and to the body of knowledge available to them. 

Roby had many opportunities during his lifetime^ especially 
after 1947 when he completed his doctoral studies and joined the 
staff of the Canadian Association for Adult Education (CAAE). to 
influence and contribute to the advancement of adult education. As 
Assistant Director, and then for a decade (1951 to 1961) Director 
of the CAAE. he was in a position to provide leadership to the 
Canadian movement and did so in important ways. Beginning in 
the mid- fifties, he emerged on the international scene and from 
that point on. especially after he come into increased prominence 
as a result of the UNESCO International Conference on Adult 
Education in Montreal in 1960, he was in a position to exercise 
personal leadership in the international movement as well. His role 
in Canada took on new dimensions in 1966. when he became the 
first chairman of the Department of Adult Education of the 
Ontario Institute for Studies in Education in Toronto. He 
continued his role in that department for the rest of his life, 
carrying on as professor after his term as chairman came to an 
end. Similarly, at the international level, his opportunities for 
contributing to the nature of the field were considerably 
augmented when, largely as a result of his leadership, the 
International Council for Adult Education (ICAE) was created in 
1973, and he became its first Secretary'- General. Thereby, in a 
somewhat parallel fashion to his relationship to the field in 
Canada, his personal leadership was reinforced by an institutional 
position. Roby possessed the personal qualities and abilities which 
enabled him to use such opportunities in order to exercise 
effective influence over the development of the field. 

The story begins in Canada, and it may fairly be stated 



8;' 



73 



that the methods and techniques Roby developed for use in his 
native country were subsequently adapted for use in the broader 
community. Roby was the first Canadian to earn a doctoral degree 
in adult education (at Columbia University, in 1947), and when he 
returned to Canada to take up his duties at the CAAE, he 
brought a professional perspective to the field. This was soon 
demonstrated in a variety of ways: he began to emphasize the 
need for training practitioners; he participated in both credit and 
non- credit training activities, strengthened the support services 
provided by the CAAE, and began to publish material which both 
aimed at, and assisted with, raising the field to a professional 
level. 

A review of Roby's writing and speeches during his yeai'S 
with the CAAE, reveals a constant effort on his part to persuade 
adult educators themselves that there was much they could learn 
about how to conduct their professional duties more expertly. He 
spoke frequently of the importance of training, and he gave 
prominence of place in many CAAE conferences to consideration 
of training needs. He used the Association's journal to convey the 
same message, and to publicize the training opportunities available. 
Every armual report he made as Director during his time with the 
CAAE, stressed the importance of more adequate training for 
practitioners, and referred to the efforts of the Assocation to that 
end. One of the most striking examples of this appeared in his 
Director's Report in 1956: 

I have only one serious apprehension about the future. 
More and more the co^^eption of continuous learning 
is being accepted. But will we have the staff who are 
numerous and talented enough? Every year several 
important positions are open which require men and 
women of considerable capacity and long experience. 
So we quickly look around for r suitable person as if 
we did not fully understand that such people aren't 
just found, they must be "grown," and the growing 
period starts many years before (Kidd, 1956). 

Soon after Roby joined the staff of the CAAE, he took the 
lead in the establishment of a Committee on Personnel in Adult 
Education, whose first activity was to carry out a survey in 1948 
of full-time workers in the field. Data were gathered on 86 
persons, and of these only two reported having had any training 
in adult education, even a single course. An interim report, issued 
by the committee in the same year, urged the CAAE to 
contribute in a variety of ways to the training and in-service 
development of adult educators, and called for the creation of "a 



83 



74 



full graduate program" at one or more Canadian universities 
(Kidd, 1950, p. 19). The approval of the committee's report 
provided policy support within the CAAE for Roby's continuing 
efforts in adult education. 

During his years at the CAAE, Roby played an active part 
personally in the provision of training opportunities. He taught 
frequently at in-service training programs offered by other 
organizations such as labor unions and the National Film Board. 
He helped organize and taught at the first short course in 
Extension Methods and Techniques offered in the West, which was 
held for ten days at Banff in the fall of 1949 and was attended 
by 80 adult educators. 

Another area of major initiatives was that of degree- credit 
course offerings at Canadian universities. In the late 1940s and 
early 1950s, there were no degree programs at Canadian 
universities, nor even individual courses which were offered on a 
consistent basis. Roby taught a summer course at the University 
of New Brunswick in 1947, and what was apparently the first 
graduate course in the field in Canada, at the Ontario College of 
Education in 1951 (Kidd, 1970). He taaght the first credit course 
in at least four universities, including one at the University of 
British Columbia in the summer of 1956. This latter was the first 
step in the creation of a Masters program, implemented at that 
institution the following year; and was also the first degree 
program in Canada (Selman, 1982). By the end of the decade, 
courses were being offered from time to time by at least seven 
universities. 

Roby was successful in securing funds from foundations to 
enable Canadian practitioners to travel to other countries and other 
centres in Canada to observe programs and confer with other 
adult educators. In 1955, school board adult educators in Nova 
Scotia and New Brunswick were assisted to visit outstanding board 
programs in several American and Canadian cities. And for at 
least four years, 1957 to 1960, the Fund for Adult Education, 
which was supporting other CAAE projects at the time, was 
persuaded to make $15,000 available annually to be used to 
support the in-service development of adult education workers. 
The gramts were usually referred to as travel grants or funds for 
travel study projects, and were used mainly to make it possible 
for selected persons to visit adult education projects in other 
centres. In some cases, the initiative was taken by the individuals, 
who applied for gremts. In others, it was decided to gather 
information about a particulatr topic (for instance, the use of the 
mass media in public affairs programming), and people were 
approached, each to undertake a part of the task ("Good news for 
adult education,- 1957: CAAE NC June 4, 1960). 



75 



In addition to these efforts to promote and assist with 
training for practitioners, Roby and the CAAE also tried, during 
the fifties^ to convince the educational community, especially 
provincal departments of education, of the importance of tixeir role 
in adult education, and the need for providing suitable training for 
personnel who were responsible for this work. The efforts made 
to do this by means of Roby's and the CAAE's publications will 
be described below. But in addition, other steps were taken. The 
role of government and public agencies in the field was frequently 
discussed at CAAE conferences. Standing committees of the 
Association were established, one on the role of governments and 
one on school boards in the field. Several special conferences and 
workshops were held during the decade on school board adult 
education work. And throughout the period, Roby took particular 
pains to keep in touch with both educational authorities in the 
province, and also the Canadian Education Association, the national 
meeting ground of those involved in the public school systems- 
Whereas in 1945, only one provincial department of education in 
Canada had an adult education unit, by 1960. all ten of them did 
(Kidd, 1961); and according to the standard work on the history 
of education in Canada, it was during the fifties that adult 
education "lost much of its amateur status" (Wilson, Stamp & 
Audet, p, 412), 

Roby also encouraged and supported the growth of adult 
education's professional stature in this period, by strengthening the 
CAAE's library, research, and information services. A professional 
librarian, Diana Ironside, was added to the staff in 1955. She 
began to develop the library and information services; organized 
more comprehensive book review coverage in the journal; and 
published A Bibliography of Canadian Writings in Adult Education 
(Thomson A Ironside, 1956), the first of its kind in Canada apart 
from a n^odest effort by Roby himself some eight years earlier 
(Kidd, 1948), Roby secured the consent of the National Council 
of the CAAE in 1953 to establish a national information service 
for the field, but he was not successful at that time in raising 
the necessary funds (CAAE NC Mar, 7, May 13, 1953). Seven 
years later, however, he secured a grant of $7,000 from an 
Ontario foundation for the purpose of strengthening the library 
and information work (CAAE NC Jan, 20. 1961). 

Publications which Roby wrote, or was responsible for 
publishing, were also a important part of his contributions 
towards the field's increasingly professional standing. Although it is 
difTicult, and perhaps unwise, to make a clear distinction between 
the two categories, some of the publications may be seen to be 
making the case for adult education and the training of 
practitioners, while others were perhaps more a contribution to the 



90 



76 



field of knowledge. Promotion of the field, and stating the case 
for trained manpower, were clearly the purposes of a number of 
Roby^s works in his CAAE years. Just before he assumed the 
directorship, he wrote a pamphlet called Adult Education and the 
School (1950b). which dealt with the role of school and school 
boards in adult education. In 1953. he produced the concluding 
pamphlet to a series of eleven which the CAAE had published, 
his called People Learning from Each Other (1953). which dealt at 
some length with the role of the adult educator Later in the 
fifties, he wrote two major studies which dealt with the role of 
universities in adult education, one on the Canadian situation 
(1956). prepared at the request of the universities of Canada, and 
one written at the conclusion of an extended consultancy for the 
University College of the West Indies, Adult Education in the 
Caribbean (1958). Shortly before leaving the CAAE. Roby wrote 
two extended publications which were directed mainly at 
educational decision makers, and intended to convince them of the 
importance of adult education, and the need for trained personnel 
to take charge of the work. The first was a large pamphlet, and 
was written as one of the preparatory studies for a national 
conference on education to be held in Canada, in 1962 (Kadd. 
1961), The second was a quite remarkable survey and set of 
recommendations prepared for the Toronto Board of Education, 
entitled 18 to 80 (1961b), In both of these he challenged the 
educational community with the educational needs of adults and 
urged them to take seriously the training needs of those 
responsible for that work, Roby also published a pamphlet by 
Guy Henson. Adult Education in Nova Scotia (1954). which 
described the activities and policies of the Adult Education 
Division of the provincial department of education in that 
province, and was clearly issued in the hope that other provinces 
would follow Nova Scotia*s lead. 

There were other publications of this period which were 
prepared for the purpose of documenting the field of adult 
education and/or providing a guide to practice. In the former 
category were two volumes of readings about the adult education 
movement in Canada: Aduit Education in Canada (1950) and 
Learning and Society (1963). which Roby compiled; and several 
pamphlets which he commissioned such as Pioneers in Adult 
Education in Canada (Rouillard. 1952). The Banff School of Fine 
Arts (Cameron. 1953). and Education in Public Affairs by Radio 
(Wilson et al. 1954). to name only three. 

The most important work which Roby ever wrote was his 
textbook. How Adults Learn (1959), The title of the book is 
somewhat misleading in that it could be mistaken for one which 
deals only with the learning process, rather than what it is. a text 



91 



77 



which c Ci 3 such other areas ar institutions, program planning, 
teaching, and methods. It, and a 5 cond edition which appeared in 
1973, have been used as a text in more than forty countri^. and 
have been translated into five ether lanp^iages. But the title is 
appropriate in one important respf r. His text placed much greater 
emphasis than any before it oii Lhe adult learner and adult 
learning, as distinct from methodolog> and other institutional 
concerns. In this respect, the book anticipated developments which 
are only now strongly coming to the fore. Some other books and 
pamphlets by Roby in that period, which had to do with aspects 
of practice, were on film utilization (1953b), group discussion 
techniques (1956b) and the financing of adult education (1962). 

An account of Roby's contributions to the professional status 
of adult education in Canada in this period would be incomplete 
without reference to his role in the establishment of adult 
educators* organizations. As adult education expanded in Canada in 
the 1950s, Roby saw clearly that it was important to create 
additional organizations to support the field, as the need was felt 
by practitioners. He led the way in expanding the governing body 
of the CAAE in the early fifties, and strengthening the 
representation of the regions. He arranged for the national body 
to have conferences only every second year, encouraging the 
regions. East and West, to hold their own meetings in the 
intervening years. He played an active part in the regional 
activities. As adult educators in some provinces indicated a wish to 
form provincial organizations, he supported such steps in every 
way, both personally and through the CAAE (Selman, 1982). The 
new organizations were brought into affiliation with the CAAE, 
and given direct representation or its National Council. He 
encouraged the formation of standing conmiittees of the CAAE 
which at the same time had affiliation with other bodies, such as 
the arrangement whereby the school board-based adult educators 
formed a CAAE conmiittee which was also linked with the 
Canadian Education Association. He also welcomed and gave 
support to the efforts of those involved in imiversity extension 
when they decided, in the early fifties, to form their own national 
organization. He clearly felt it important to encourage the creation 
of other organizations of adult educators whenever colleagues felt 
that such a move would strengthen their efforts and their 
commitment to adult education. 

Some emphasis has been placed on the period of Roby's 
leadership of the CAAE. because it was one of intense activity, 
and also revealed the various facets of his approach to advancing 
professional status of the field. 

Roby*s subsequent efforts in this direction, as they relate to 
Canada, may be seen to focus largely on his activites arising from 



92 



78 



his role as founding chairman, and then faculty member, in the 
Department of Adult Education at the Ontario Institute for Studies 
in Education (OISE). His work there is described in a chapter of 
this study. For present purposes, it can be said that, as a central 
figure in the largest graduate studies department in the field in 
Canada, he was an important influence in the professional 
development of the large number of Canadian and foreign students 
who studied at OISR Many foreign students were attracted to 
OISE during Roby's time there at least partly, presumably, because 
Roby had become such a well known figure at the international 
level, and for much of the period also was directing the affairs of 
the International Council. al>o based in Toronto. 

Roby^s continuing work relating to the move to professional 
standing of the field in Canada, may be demonstrated in part by 
describing four of the Canadian publications over the past twenty 
years. The circumstances surrounding each may provide a glimpse 
of his continuing influence. The first of these was a series of 
lectures published in 1966 under the title. The Implications of 
Continaus Learning. He was invited by the University of 
Saskatchewan to give these lectures, in a lectureship series which 
was devoted to the whole field of education. It was typi<^ of the 
imagination and intellectual reach of the man that he was 
challenging the educational community to come to terms with the 
implications of lifelong education many years before the UNESCO 
Report. Learning to Be (1972). brought the concept so forcefully 
to the world*s attention. 

In 1970. the CAAE. for which Roby had worked a decade 
earlier, was at a crucial point in its development Various versions 
of its future role and style of operations were being advanced, 
and it was decided to determine the future directions for the 
organization at its annual meeting in the spring of that year. 
Roby*s stature was such that he was invited to give the main 
address to the meeting, which he did under the title. "The 
Imaginative Training for Citizenship." Although he did not come 
out directly in favor of any of the choices before the meeting, he 
raised a series of issues which he thought were relevant to the 
decision to be made, the first of which was "the development of 
adult education as a professional field of study" (Kidd. 1970. p. 
117). 

A year later. Roby's colleague at OISE, Dr. James Draper, 
edited a book of readings on community development, entitled 
Citizen Participation: Canada (1971). One of the central articles, in 
terms of the concept of community development and the 
professional roles involved, was provided by Roby. and it is one 
which is still commonly referred to by students and widely quoted. 
Not many persons, perhaps, would have , seen Roby before that as 



93 



79 



an expert on that particula:t' subject, and it was a further 
reflection of his scope and interests that he contributed a chapter 
on that subject which has proven so valuable. 

In 1979, a small group of adult educators in British 
Columbia organized a conference which was intended to examine 
the historical roots of adult education in Canada. This projrxt was 
to serve as a background to analyzing public policy development 
in the field. Their choice of keynote speaker, who was judged to 
be both an authority on the history of adult education and 
knowledgeable about the field as a whole, was Roby Kidd. His 
suggestive and comprehesive paper on "the heritage" of Canadian 
adult education (1979) has been of great use to scholars in the 
field since that time. 

One major contribution which Roby made at the 
international level, which is of importance to present concerns, is 
his contribution to building organizations and organizational 
networks. The role which he played in UNESCO over the years 
was of great importance, but tends to be largely "invisible," in 
view of the intergovernmental nature of that organization. In the 
sixties, his activities as chairman of the advisory body on adult 
education were handled with great skill. His chairmanship of the 
Second International Conference in Montreal, in 1960, was an act 
of the highest diplomacy and finesse; and his continuing role as 
advisor and participant in the international juries for the literacy 
prizes were of great importance to both UNESCO, and the field 
as a whole. His position as chairman for the first six years of 
the Adult Education Committee of the World Confederation of 
Organizations of the Teaching Profession, required acute political 
IT dgment and leadership skills, and made a significant contribution 
> that dimension of adult education. 

Perhaps most significant of all, in terms of his organizational 
contributions and accomplishments, was the creaaon and 
management of the International Council for Adult Education 
(ICAE). He made a decision, some two years before the Tokyo 
conference of 1972, that the long- deferred dream of 
re- establijihing an international, non- governmental organization for 
the field could at last be realized. After some years of planning 
and consultations, including informal discussions at Tokyo, the 
decision was made to proceed, with interesteu national 
organizations as the membership base. Although there was no 
provision for individual membership in the resulting ICAE, there 
have been many opportunities for individual practitioners to play a 
part in the various activities; and it has been a valuable avenue 
of professional development and professional services for many. Of 
particular importance in this connection has been the decision on 
the part of the ICAE, to the maximum extent possible, to channel 



80 



its activities through the regional adult education bodies, such as 
those in Africa and the Asian and South Pacific regions. 

Two further contributions to raising the field to professional 
status at the international level, have been Roby's scholarship 2md 
publications. Of particular significance, with respect to the content 
of the subject, has been the journal. Convergence. This was 
launched by Roby, in 1968, under the auspices of his department 
at OISE; and when the International Council was formed, it was 
transferred to that organization in 1973. A multi- lingual journal, it 
has, over the years, provided a vehicle for an international 
exchange of information and points of view, frequently with a 
focus on a particular theme or problem judged to be of 
widespread interest. 

Another example of Roby's contributions to the field of 
knowledge is the pamphlet. A Tale of Three Cities: 
Elsinore- Montreal" Tokyo (1974), which he produced in 1974, and 
which records and examines the three international conferences on 
adult education which have been held under UNESCO auspices 
since the Second World War. As an active participant in two of 
the three meetings, and President of the one held in Montreal in 
1960. Roby was uniquely placed to write up the story of these 
meetings, and did so with particular style and insight Reference 
also should be made to Roby's work in the comparative study of 
adult education. He played the leading role in directing the 
attention of adidt education students and scholars to the value and 
character of comparative study. He took a lead in publishing 
material about the subject, most notably the volume. Comparative 
Studies in Adult Education: An Anthology (Bennett. Kidd & 
Kulich, 1975), introduced courses on the subject within the 
program of OISE, and organized periodic meetings of those 
interested in the subject 

The other content area to which Roby made a significant 
contribution, in recent years, has been that of adult education in 
the development process. He was actively engaged in development 
work since the mid- fifties, as personal participant, organizer 
(especially through the ICAE), and scholar. There has been, 
especially since the sixties, a rapidly increasing acceptance of the 
idea that the development of himian resources was a necessary 
and integral part of the development process, and Roby was one 
of the leaders in this school of tliought His book, Whilst Time 
is Burning (1974b), explored many aspects of this subject, was 
remarkably comprehensive in the breadth of experience reflected, 
and is widely quoted in the development literature. Focusing more 
directly on adult education and its role in development. Roby and 
his successor at the ICAE, Dr. Budd Hall, co- edited an important 
book. Adult Learning: A Design for Action (1978), a record of 



81 



papers presented and conclusions reached at the ICAE conference 
in Dar es Salaam in 1976. The journal. Convergence, has also 
made a significant contribution to thinking in adult education 
about the process of development 

Thus, it may be seen that Roby Kidd made an important 
and unique contribution in assisting adult education gain 
recognition as a professional discipline. The focus here has been 
on the last thirty ye^ of his life, and on his work both in 
Canada and in the international community. He has contributed in 
various ways: by adding to the fund of knowledge available to 
adult education, by taking part personally in a wide range o^ 
formal and non- formal teaching activities for adult education 
personnel (only his work in Canada has buen referred to in any 
detail), by developing the organiiational structure of the field, and 
by seeking to persuade both ttie employers of adult educators and 
adult educators themselves that there is a body of knowledge that 
practitioners can — and should — draw upon. 

He clearly saw the importance of adult educators taking a 
more professional approach to their vocation and contributed to an 
impressive extent, and in several important ways, to bringing that 
about But what kind of profession? What kind of professional? 

Roby was not inclined to make ringing personal statements 
of principle, much less pontificate about the field and what others 
should believe. In the many books, pamphlets, papers, and 
speeches which he produced over the years, tliere are remarkably 
few instances of his speaking out on such issues. And when he 
dealt with them, he tended to speak in eclectic terms, often 
relying on quotations from other sources. 

The dominant theme in his writings, with respect to the 
purpose of adult education, is summed up in the words 
participation and empowerment At the local national level, he 
expressed this in terms of citizenship. He frequently returned to 
the idea expressed in the CAAE 1946 declaration, which spoke of 
adult education's principal task as "the imaginative training for 
citizenship" (Kidd, 1963, p. 109). At the international level, he 
was clearly comfortable with the concept of adult education as an 
integral part, even the core, of the development process. He was 
a participant in drafting the Declaration of Persepolis in 1975, 
which spoke in terms of literacy being not merely a skill, but "a 
contribution to the liberation of man and to his full development," 
and which called for organizational structures which "tend to bring 
about the effective participation of every citizen in decision- making 
at all levels of social life: in economics, politics, and culture" 
("International Symposium" 1975, p. 5-6). 

Roby spoke effectively to the adult education practitioner, 
but he practically never gave him or her advice, unless asked 



82 



directly. He did not pontificate; he asked questions and explored 
areas of inquiry. One of the rare exceptions appeared in the 
second edition of his textbook. How Adults LearvL There he 
advised the teacher of adults by means of what he called a 
"decalogue." .And the advice could as well have been directed to 
all adult educators. The blend of good humor and good sense, of 
modesty and a sense of high calling, will serve as the final 
statement of Roby Kidd on the professional adult educator (Kidd, 
1973, pp. 306-7). 

1. Thou Shalt never tr>' to make another human being exactly 
like thyself; one is enough. 

2. Thou Shalt never judge a person's need, or refuse your 
consideration, solely because of the trouble he causes. 

3. Thou Shalt not blame heredity nor the environment in 
general. 

4. Tliou Shalt never give a person up as hopeless or cast him 
out 

5. Thou Shalt try to help everyone become, on the one hand, 
sensitive and compassionate, and also tough- minded. 

6. Thou Shalt not steal from any person his rightful 
responsibilities ... for determining his own conduct and 
the consequences thereof. 

7. Thou Shalt honour anyone engaged in the pursuit of 
learning and serve well and extend the discipline of 
knowledge and skill about learning which is our common 
heritage. 

8. Thou Shalt have no universal remedies or expect miracles. 

9. Thou Shalt cherish a sense of humour which may save you 
from becoming shocked, depressed, or complacent 

10. Thou Shalt remember the sacredness and dignity of thy 
calling, and, at the same time, thou shalt not take thyself 
too damned seriously. 




83 



References 

Where reference is made in the text to CAAE minutes, the 
minutes of the National Council of the organization are referred 
to as CAAE NC, followed by the appropriate date. 

Bennett, C, Kidd. J. R.. Kulich, J. (Eds.). (1975). Comparative 

studies in adult education: An anthology, (Occasional Paper 

No. 44. Syracuse Publications in Continuing Education). 

Syracuse: University of Syracuse. 
Cameron. D. (1953). The Banff School of Fine Arts. Toronto: 

Canadian Association for Adult Education. 
Campbell. D. D. (1977). Adult education as a field of study and 

practice, Vancouver: University of British Columbia Centre 

for Continuing Education. 
Cotton, W. E (1968). On behalf of adult education, Boston: 

Center for the Study of Liberal Education for Adults. 
Draper, J. (Ed.). (1971). Citizen pariticipatioru Canada. Toronto: 

New Ptess. 

Good news for adult education (1957). Food for thought IS. (1)- 
46-47. 

Hall, B. L., Kidd, J. R. (Eds.). (1978). Adult learning: A design 

for action, Oxford: Pergamon. 
Henson, G. (1954). Adult education in Nova Scotia. Toronto: 

Canadian Association for Adult Education. 
International symposium for literacy: Declaration of Persepolis 

(1975). Convergence fi, (4). 5-7. 
Kidd. J. R. (1948). A bibliography of adult education, Toronto: 

Canadian Association for Adult Education. (Typed multilith). 
(Comp.). {\95Q), Adult education in Canada. loronto: Canadian 

Association for Adult Education. 
(1950b). Adult education and the school, Toronto: Canadian 

Association for Adult Education. 
(1953). People learning from each other, Toronto: Canadian 

Association for Adult Education. 
(1953b). Pictures with a purpose: The distribution of 

non- theatrical films in Canada. Toronto: Canadian 

Association for Adult Education. 
(1956). Adult education in the Canadian university, Toronto: 

Canadian Association for Adult Education. 
(1956b). Putting words to work: Effective group discussion, 

Toronto: Canadian Association for Adult Education. 
(1958). Adult education in the Caribbean: The extra- mural 

department of the University College of the West Indies. 

Toronto: Canadian Association for Adult Education. 



98 



Kidd, J. R. (1959). How adults learru (Rev. ed. 1973). New York: 
Association Press. 

(1961). Continuing education. Ottawa: Canadian Conference on 

Education. (Conference Study No. 6). 
(1961b). 18 to 80: Continuing education in Metropolitan 

Toronto. Toronto: Board of Education for the City of 

Toronto. 

(1962). Financing continuing education. New York: Scarecrow 

Press. 

(Ed.). (1963). Learning and society. Toronto: Canadian 

Association for Adult Education. 
(1966). The implications of co. iinuaus learning. New Delhi: 

Indian Adult Education Association; Toronto: W. J. Gage. 
(1970). The imaginative training for citizenship. Continuous 

Learning. ^. (3). 111-125. 
(1974). A tale of three cities: Elsinore^ Montreal- Tokya the 

influence of three UNESCO World Conferences upon the 

development of adxdt education. Syracuse: University of 

Syracuse. (Landmarks and new horizons in continuing 

education). 

(1974b). Whilst time is burning: A report on education for 

development. Ottawa: International Development Research 

Centre. (Monograph IDRC-035e). 
(1979). Some prelimiary notes concerning an enquiry into the 

heritage of Canadian adult education. Vancouver: University 

of British Columbia, Centre for Continuing Education. 

(Occasional Papers in Continuing Education No. 19). 
Rouillard, H. (Ed.). (1952). Pioneers in adult education in Canada. 

Toronto: Canadian Association for Adult Education. 
Selman, G. (1982). Roby Kidd and the Canadian Association for 

Adult Education 1951-1961. (Occasional Papers in Continuing 

Education. No. 22). University of British Columbia Centre 

for Continuing Education. 
Selman, G., & Kulich, J. (1980). Between social movement and 

profession — a historical perspevUve on Canadian adult 

education. Studies in cudult education. I2-. (2). 109-116. 
Thomson, M., & Ironside, D. (1956). A bibliography of Canadian 

writings in adult education. Toronto: Canadian Association 

for Adult Education. 
UNESCO. (1972). Learning to be. London: Harrap. 
Wilson, I., Peers, F., McKenzie, R., Houle, J- P. (1954). Education 

in public affairs by ra^'o. Toronto: Canadian Association for 

Adult Education. 

Wilson. J. D., Stamp, R. M., & Audet L. (Eds.). (1970). 
Canadian education: A history. Scarborough: Prentice- Hall. 



CHAPTER 6 



ROBY KIDD AND THE CARIBBEAN 

Leonard Shorey and Esmond Ramesar 

It is both a ^a,^ xe and a privilege to be invited to join in this 
fitting tribute to die late Professor James Robbins Kidd. 

Roby Kidd, as he was familiarly but very repectfully known, 
had considerable impact on adult education in tl?e Caribbean, as 
he did in several third world countries, and in cUier countries as 
well. A review of his relationship with the Caribbean reveals what 
was also true of his relationship with other countries — his 
remarkable capacity to absorb the "ethos" of a country, to 
assimilate its culture, to empathize with its goals and aspirations, 
to be moved by its poetry and other art forms as much as he 
was by similar creative work in his own country, Canada. In 
particular, Roby possessed the very rare gift of being able to 
make objective assessments of persons, programs, and activities 
while at the same time being able to view those persons, 
programs, and activities through the eyes of nationals, or from the 
point of view of national and local policy or requirements. 

In July, 1958, Roby Kidd submitted a report entitled Adult 
Education in the Caribbean: The Extra- Mural Department of the 
University College of the West Indies. This report was the result 
of an inquiry funded by the Carnegie Corporation, and carried out 
with the full support of the then University College of the West 
Indies. The work involved gave Roby his first direct contact with 
the Caribbean. 

The Kidd reT>o- is a significant docimient not least of all 
because it was ^-h first, and indeed is still the only, 
comprehensive^ ass/^9<niont ever made of the "adult education" 
activities of the Extra-Mural Department of the University College, 
now the University of the West Indies. 

Roby's report reflected the sensitivity of the man himself to 
the problems facing a region whose many countries range in size 
from "British Guiana (now Guyana) as large as England and 
Scotland" to "Montserrat, 32 square miles, while some of the 
Virgin Islands are but specks on the sea." These English-speaking 



86 



countries, with which alone the report was concerned, were, in 
Roby's apt comparison, "not unlike that of Canada at the time of 
Confederation in 1867 when people in four 'colonies' [were] spread 
thinly along a ribbon of settlement stretching for nearly 2000 
miles . . . "(Kidd, 1958, p. 48). 

Typical also of Roby was his ability to sense the pride of 
West Indians evident in the region's poets as, for example, in 
Sheriock's "Jamaican Fisherman" (1978, p. 98): 

Across the sand I saw a black man stride 
To fetch his fishing gear and broken things 
And silently that silent body -cried 
Its proud descent from ancient chiefs and kings. 

He sensed that in the pc *m, "Song of the Banana Man", 
Evan Jones" [had] caught much of the strength and pride, and 
something of the yearning too, of the man of the hills, poorly 
educated in a formal sense, but possessed of strength and dignity" 
(Kidd. 1958, pp. 77- 8): 

Tourist, white man wiping his face 
Met me in Golden Grove market place 

And said, "You're a beggar man I suppose," 

He said "Boy get some occupation 

Be of some value to your nation." 

I said "By God and this big right hand 

You must recognize a banana man 

I leave my yard early morning time 
And set my foot to the mountain climb 
I bend my head for the hot sun toil 
And my cutlass rings on the stony soil 
Clearing and weeding, digging and planting 

So 2X1 you see these old clothes brown with stain 

And soaked clean through with Portland rain 

Don't cast your eye nor cast your nose 

Don't judge a man by his patchy clothes 

I'm a strong man, a proud man, and I'm free 

I know myself and I know my ways 

And will say with pride to the end of my days 

Praise God and my big right hand 

I will live and die a banana man " (Jones, 1966, pp. 

4^6). 



I'll 



87 



Roby was particularly interested in the arts which, he felt, 
reflected national sentiment and this was itself, in Roby's own 
words, "the most powerful social force in the British Caribbean 
today . . . National sentiment involves a feeling of status, of 
belonging together, and of belonging to a region. It is a tmifying 
force, stimulating regard for one's own culture and country. The 
change produced by this in West Indian attitudes is seen in a 
poem by the Barbadian H. A. Vaughan" (Kidd, 1958): 

Turn sideways now and let them see 

What loveliness escapes the schcK)ls 

Then turn again, and smile, and be 

The perfect answer to those fools 

Who always prate of Greece and Rome 

(The face that launched a thousand ships) 

And such like things, but keep tight lips 

For burnished beauty nearer home. 

Turn in the sun, my love, my love! 

What palm-like grace! What poise! I swear 

I prize these dusky limbs ibove 

My life! What laughing eyes! What gleaming hair! 

(Vaughan, n.d., p. 63) 

Roby's Caribbean investigation necessarily led him to 
examine the antecedents to the establishment of the University 
College of the West Indies as a College of London University in 
1949. As he noted, it was against a background of regional 
disturbances precipitated by economic poverty and debilitating social 
conditions in the colonies, that the metropolitan country. Great 
Britain, had appointed the Commission on Higher Education in the 
Colonies under the chairmanship of Mr. Justice Asquith. The 
terms of reference of the Commission included a consideration of 
the principles which would guide the promoting of higher 
education, learning, and research, and the development of 
universities in the colonies. 

He noted that the Commission set up its own 
sub- committee, "The West Indies Committee of the Commission 
on Higher Education," under the chairmanship of Sir James Irvine, 
but itself recogni^.ed the need for such tmiversities to reach out to 
"those members of tne population whose studies must necessarily 
be restricted to the leisure left from other work . . . [so that] In 
every colony served by a university there should certainly be one 
centre for extra-mural studies ..." (KJdd, 1958). 

The case for adult education as an important activity for 
such a University College was a strong one. nowhere made more 
strongly than by the late Dr. Eric Williams, Prime Minister of 



102 



88 



Trinidad and Tobago, who had long before aigued the case with 
great cogency. Roby took due note of, and quoted Dr. Williams' 
contention that: 

All over the islands today there are thousands of 
literate adults, between the ages of 18 and 45, avid 
for knowledge, thirsty for guidance, eager for greater 
intellectual equipment which will enable them to 
understand their world and help themselves. To keep 
such people outside the university merely because they 
have not the entrance prerequisites, or to encourage 
them to dissipate their energies in securing these 
prerequisites, would be a mistake (Williams, 1968, p. 91). 

c iixtra- Mural Department was created expressly to meet 
\ c needs, and was headed by Mr. (now Sir) Philip Sherlock, 
himself one of the members of the Irvine Committee. As Roby 
noted, it was one of the first depaitments set up in the 
University College of the West Indies, which had been established 
in 1949, and it became a vital component of that institution. 

The early years of the Department were not without their 
own difTiculties and problems, especially with respect to the kind 
of philosophy and practice which the Department should follow. 
Roby was quick to note that in the Caribbean, as in other 
countries, there was fundamental disagreement as to precisely what 
role an Extra- Mural Department should play, i.e. just what should 
be the activities of the adult education arm of a university? What 
kinds of courses should it ofTer, to whom, and at what level? 

To set the matter in perspective, Roby reviewed the major 
contentions of those whose great concern, indeed whose 
pre- occupation, appeared to be with "standards," as well as the 
arguments advanced equally strongly by others who urged a 
considerably more liberal philosophy, i.e. for univeisity involvement 
in general adult education. He was, therefore, not surprised to 
find evidence of such controversy in the Caribbean, as is clear 
from the following comment: 

One would expect that there would be some 
opposition, even if all the work done with adults were 
of the highest quality. No change ever comes about in 
any university without vigorous and valid questions of 
the new . . . Resistance to change ... is just as 
common today (Kidd, 1958, p. 27). 

Thr 'ei critical matter as to the kind of role the 
Ts u; rnent should play, the kinds of programs in 

I'Ki 



89 



which it should engage, and the "level(s)" at which such 
programs/courses should be set was to remain an open and 
undecided question so far as the Extra- Mural Department of the 
University of the West Indies was concerned. 

Roby Kidd's report is a masterful blend of relevant detail, 
and enlightening anecdotes and references, in which the last two 
are used to shed light on the first, or to help elucidate its nature 
and rationale. The history of the Extra- Mural Department and its 
development from 1949 to 1958 is traced with sympathy, and with 
an intuitive understanding of, and respect for, the creative and 
imaginative steps and strategies devised by the early standard- 
bearers to meet the varying and challenging needs of societies 
moving gradually, but impatiently, towards independence. 

One of the outstanding characteri: tics evident in Roby's 
report is his ability to keep an eye on quality performance and 
outcome while recognizing that the medium and the context, 
geographical or otherwise, may require novel means and 
approaches if the all- important goals are to be achieved. He 
never took refuge in decrying solutions merely because they were 
different from those to which he was himself accustomed We see 
this clearly in the following comment which introduces his 
"General Observations": 

How does one judge extra-mural work in a region as 
unique as this? Certainly to measure the number of 
classes or the subjects taught and the quality of class 
study would not be worth much. Each of the tutors 
in turn discovered that traditional paths were not for 
him; that he must improvise and develop educational 
activities desired by the adults with whom he was 
working and suited to the conditions under which they 
were living. The record of adaptation and invention, of 
effort in the face of unusual difficulty should have a 
place of honour in the history of the new 
commonwealth (Kidd, 1?58, p. 119a). 

We need to emphasize, however, that Roby was no naive, 
starry-eyed, impractical dreamer unaware of, or indifferent to, the 
realities of the situation. Numerous comments provide ample 
evidence of his realism. The following is only one such example: 

It is painfully clear that some of the most persistent 
difTiculties confronting those engaged in adult education 
in the smaller islands will not quickly difappea: 
may be ces<^nT^ to -^^^vise a spec^^' str ^ fo ^">e 
islar ' iclu, ; p. 119a). 



lU4 



90 



On this point it must sufTice to say that those persistent 
difTiculties have indeed not disappeared and that even now, some 
twenty- seven years after Roby's report was written, efforts are still 
being made to find an acceptable special strategy for these smaller 
islands. 

Roby was also uncanny in his abil^" lo spot . e kinds of 
problems most likely to .jus a.w.culty and to be most 

intractable of solution he early put his finger on one 

difTicultj' which was long to persist: 

One of the chief difficulties, or to turn it around, one 
of the chief opportunities of Extra- Mural work is that 
two objectives must be pursued simultaneously. The 
University College is the university of the entire 
region. It must be built up, maintained, and 
sometimes, defended. While taking part in this 
common goal, the tutor, at the same time, must keep 
in mind the needs of people in his territory for 
education, and their naturd and proper concern about 
territorial development . . . The tutor must work both 
for the health of the University and of educational 
services in his territory fKidd, 1958, p. 264). 

The problem identified by Roby in the preceding extract 
was to remain a persistent one, for which no completely 
satisfactory solution has yet been found. 

Nor was Roby blind to the need to accept, modify, and 
even discontinue programs and activities, or to change perspectives. 
This is clear from his insightful comment about the kind of role 
the Extra- Mural Department should seek to play, and how best it 
could approach that role: 

While the Extra- Mural Department ought to keep in 
touch with governments . . . and not duplicate sound 
efTorts, it ought to keep the initiative and freedom to 
explore, demonstrate, and develop needed kinds of 
education. Conven;ely, from time to time it might turn 
over activities to government or other agencies (Kidd, 
1958, p. 265). 

Tbr howl 'i^di bucn developments have indeed taken 

p ..ce. ? cgun by the Department have been passed over 

lu, or b. takcii over by governments and by other organizations, 
while the Department has encountered new challenges and has 
found new worlds to open up and conquer, new problems to 
tackle, new needs to meet 



91 



We must add that no one more clearly saw the need for, 
and the possiblility of, flexibility as an essential characteristic of 
adult education in the Caribbean region than did Roby himself. 
One of his near- final comments dealt with this point in particular 
reference to financial control, but it applies equally to program 
offerings and other aspects of Extra- Mural work, as time has 
clearly shown: 

The work of any Extra- Mural Department differs in 
many respects from most University schools, faculties, 
or departments . . . But the distinguishing mark of 
Extra- Mural is flexibility, in choice cf date, place, 
time, stafT. There is no certainty that activities will 
happen every year or fall into the same period of 
time (Kidd, 1958, pp. 270-271). 

This statement remains as true in 1985 as it was in 1958 
when Roby saw with such clarity that flexibility is the essence of 
Extra-Mural work in the Caribbean. It is often said that tlie 
proof of the pudding is in the eating. ITie wisdom and foresight 
of Roby Kidd are evident in the fact that over the years those 
programs of the Department, and those branches of the 
Department which have been most flexible are precisely those 
which have flourished best and which have proved most successful 
in vaiious countries of the region. 

Roby visited the region again in the very early seventies, 
partly to do some writing but partly, also, to get some 
well-earned resL Even so he found Lme to prepare and give a 
public lecture in Barbados, and once again to share with others 
the fruits of his own wide experience 

During this visit in April 6-11, 1970, Roby also presented a 
paper on the "Needs and Objectives of Adult Education" at the 
Second Caribbean Regional Conference on Adult Education held in 
Georgetown, Guyana, and sponsored by UNESCO and the 
Government of Guyana. In his closing remarks at that Conference 
he shared with others his very insightful perceptions of the 
Caribbean, and it is a matter worthy of note that the region is 
still only awakening to the potential which Roby long ago so 
clearly sensed: 

The people of the Caribbean may still need to know 
themselves and to prove themselves, as most peoples 
everywhere need to do. But increasingly, they will 
need and they will find the courage and confidence, 
to be themselves. And when they do, who can tell 
what will be the contribution of such a people to the 



92 



wide world beyond the sea (Kidd, 1970, p. 61)! 

But Roby's influence on, and association with, Caribbean 
adult education were not limited to these contacts. At the 1976 
ICAE General Assembly held in Dar-Es- Salaam, when the 
Caribbean representatives urged that the Caribbean become an 
autonomous region within ICAE, Roby showed a characteristic 
sensitivity for the problen". As a result, and in spite of its 
relatively small size, the unique position of the Caribbean 
outweighed other considerations and in 1978 the Caribbean was 
accepted as an autonomous region by ICAE, The regional body 
became known as the Caribbean Regional Council for Adult 
Education (CARCAE). 

Roby Kidd visited the Caribbean for the last time in 1981, 
when he attended the ICAE Executive Meeting and a 
Seminar/Workshop on "Adult Education: Training and 
Employment" held in Port- of- Spain, Trinidad. As 
rapporteur- general, he summarized the seminar in a statement 
which he called "Travelling Together: the Spirit of the Seminar." 
The excerpts from his report, presented below, are an accurate 
reflection of Roby's feelings about the Caribbean: awareness of its 
problems and confidence in the region's ability to overcome these. 
Above all, his statement is an excellent summary of Roby's own 
approach to, and philosophy about, adult education — that we "go 
on the road together;" that our differences need not be handicaps 
but may serve rather as stimuli, for "when difficulties and 
differences begin to exhilarate us, then we know that we are 
starting on the road towards success." Such was the man Roby 
Kidd. 

In his summary as rapporteur- general, Roby noted the 
contributions being made by regional governmental organizations in 
the Caribbean; he also referred to the Caribbean- bom guest 
speaker who, at the opening session, "was reminding us that 
self-reliance is not only necessary but possible, and that general 
education as well as job training is needed in smaller countries as 
well as in our society." He specifically referred to other Caribbean 
speakers who "reminded us that creativity does not end with the 
arts, but ought to get into the political processes, educational 
organizations, and into our own lives, action, and thinking," and 
lat there remains "the challenge to make the most effective use 
of education, to meet with the daunting problems that lie in our 
way." He expressed the view that "the most memorable 
statements, to me at least and, I think to all of us, have come 
from the Caribbean region in which we are meeting" (Kidd, 1981, 
pp. 149-151). He continued: 



1 'J / 



Particuiarly, we rejoice in the hospitality and 
pioneering work of our host organizations and their 
officers and members. For tlie Caribbean Regional 
Council for Adult Education, we salute the tireless 
work of its Secretary, Esmond Ramesar, who has 
borne the brunt of the planning and organizing of the 
seminar ... In addition to his CARCAE role, he hp.s. 
brought together the Congress of Adult Education of 
Trinidad and Tobago, as well as continuing the fine 
work of th e Extra- Mural Studies Uni t of th e 
University of the West Indies. And then we have had 
the rich and diverse fellowship of adult educators from 
so many parts of the region; women and men from 
countries and territories of many languages: English, 
French, Creole, Dutch. A particularly strong 
contribution has come from the many women with us 
from all parts of the region; without their presence 
here we would have had a very unbalanced sense of 
respect and commitment among practitioners in the 
Caribbean. . . . We learned of the importance of the 
mother tongue and of the beauties of the various 
forms of the Creole languages and their significance, 
and that that is not just limited to the Caribbean; the 
notion is fundamental for development throughout the 
world. We became aware that "small is beautiful" and 
that from small, as from islands, often comes greatness 
of spirit . . . We realize, of course, that much of the 
business of the seminar is still unfinished, and that we 
still have a long way to go. But we have learnt of 
an emerging coherence and have been refreshed and 
energized by our difTerences . . . When difficulties 
and differences begin to exhilarate us, then we know 
that we are starting on the road towards success. But 
in all of this, we have a sense of travelling together, 
and the metaphor of "being on the road" has a deep 
meaning for adult educators. Thus, I conclude with a 
modem Greek poem based on the words of Sl 
Francis: 

The roads of the entire earth stretch 
Before us; let us portion them 
Out in a brotherly way and start 
Our journey. Go into the open 
Air and set ofT along the main 
Roads, travelling in pairs, so that 
One can be a source of courage and 



I'Jd 



94 



Comfort to the other (Kidd, 1981, pp. 1 1^151) 

Importrjai though these interactions wei ^ . Roby's interest in 
the CaiiL Lj. in ^,cneral and in the development of adult 
education in the region in particular was nci limited to these 
visits. As much u other individual, he helped to shape and 

influence U:^ de^'elopnicnt of adult education in the Caribbean, not 
directly but liiiouph tliosc who were privileged to work with him 
during his lik^^iuti. This is particularly true of those who studied 
under him during the years when he was Professor of Adult 
Education and Chairman of the Department of Adult Education at 
The Ontario Institute for Studies in Education (OISE). Indeed even 
after his Chairmanship had ended, he continued to teach graduate 
courses and to influence the thinking and philosophy of many 
students. 

Mention has already been made of Roby's sensitivity to the 
culture of other peoples; to his rare ability to put himself in the 
place of others and to see thiigs from their perspective. This 
exceptional trait had its counterpart on a personal level in his 
xmcanny ability to sense when a student needed a word of 
encouragement On such occasions the word was always given, the 
psychological boost provided, the encouragement offered at the 
vcrj' point in time when it made the greatest difference to many 
a hard-pressed student 

Roby was also one of the most readily accessible of 
professors. Despite his nimierous national and international 
commitments, as well as his own teaching responsibilities, it was 
rare, indeed, for one of his graduate students to have to wait 
more than a day to see him — provided, of course, that he was 
in Toronto. 

From time to time his students included persons from the 
Caribbean and these were later to return to their respective 
countries and to take back with them not only the degrees which 
they had earned under Roby's guidance and inspiration, but also, 
and as important on a personal level, they were to retain very 
happy memories of Roby both as a Professor and as a thoughtful 
and considerate human being. He was in many ways to serve as 
a model for such students, and it is doubtful whether any higher 
praise can be given. 

Roby's association with the Caribbean did not. however, end 
with such student contact In the middle seventies, a number of 
adult educators on the staff of the University of the West Indies 
and of the University of Guyana, who were past students of Roby 
or who had worked with him, took the initiative in promoting the 
establishment of a university course for teachers of adults. They 
also constituted themselves into an informal Steering Committee of 



95 



what was subsequently to become the Caribbean Regional Council 
for Adult Education (CARCAE). 

Roby welcomed tliese early efforts to set up a regional 
adult education association and to establish a training program for 
teachers of adults, because he was well aware of the scarcity, in 
the English- speaking Caribbean, of persons trained in adult 
education. He himself contributed very directly to the success of 
the venture by securing funds from the Canadian International 
Development Agency to help mount the firot Certificate Course for 
Teachers of Adults ever to be provided in the region. Moreover, 
Roby was also largely responsible for securing assistance from a 
German funding agency for the same course, and it was on the 
basis of these two sources of funding that the certificate course 
got ofT the ground in the late 1970's. The continuation of this 
program remains a tribute to Roby and to his interest in the 
Caribbean region. 

On occasion, also, Caribbean scholars were invited to take 
part in graduate seminars ou comparative adult education. Former 
OISE students from the Caribbean who visited Toronto were 
always warmly welcomed by Roby, who showed a genuine interest 
in being brought up-to-date with respect to the region, its 
development, its prospects, and its problems, especially with regard 
to adult education. He vas, of course, always ready to discuss 
matters relating to adult eu'^cation, and was as unselfish with his 
ideas as anyone could be, ever ready and willing to share his 
own thinking on professional matters, and to give others the 
benefit of his insights. But despite his eminence in tlie field of 
adult education and his world-wide renown, Roby was an 
extraordinarily modest man, not prone to pontificate nor to lay 
down the law. 

The death of Roby Kidd was a severe loss to persons 
around the globe as this volume of tributes testifies but, other 
than among relatives and close personal friends, there are few (if 
any) countries/regions in which his loss was more keenly felt than 
it was in the Caribbean by those who knew him well. For we in 
the Caribbean lost not only a fellow adult educator, and one of 
international standing, but a tried and true colleague of 
unquestioned integrity. 

To those closest and dearest to him whom he left behind, 
we tender our sincere and heartfelt sympathies for the loss of one 
who loved, and was loved by, people in every country and in 
every walk of life. 

Professor James Robbins Kidd was unique in being able to 
walk with crowds and keep his virtue, to talk with kings without 
losing the common touch. He was, indeed, a man. 



llu 



96 



References 

Jones, E, (1966). The song of the banana man. In Caribbean 

voices. Vol. I, an aMhdogy of West Indian poetry: dreams 

and visions, selected by John Figueroa. London: Evans, 

quoted in iCidd, (Report), pp. 77-78. 
Kidd, J. R. (1958). (Report on) Adult education in the Caribbean: 

the Extra- Mural Department of the University College of 

the West Indies. Toronto. 
(1970). Needs and objectives of adult education. In Second 

Caribbean conference on adult education report. Georgetown, 

Guyana. 

(1981). Travelling together: the spirit of the seminar, (Seminar 

report on) Adtdt education, training and employment. Port of 

Spain: ICAE/CARCAE/CAETT. 
Sherlock, P. (1978). Jamaican Fisherman. In Brown, Lloyd W.. 

West Indian poetry. Boston: G.K. Hall & Co., 1978, quoted 

in Kidd, (Report), 1958, p.7. 
Vaughan, H. A. (n.d.). Revelation. In Caribbean voices, Vol.I. 
Williams, E (1968). Education in the British West Indies. New 

York: University Place Bookshop, quoted in Kidd, (Report), 

p.42. 



Ill 



CHAPTER 7 



INTERNATIONAL OUTREACH 
S. C. Dutta 

Roby was the most outstanding adult educator in the world, not 
just because he was the most travelled and best known who, in 
his turn, knew most of the well-known adult educators at the 
national and local levels, but because of his abiding belief in 
interna tinal co-operation and "travelling together." He once said 
that "the metaphor of being on the road" has a deep meaning 
for adult educators. He was always on the road, hopping from 
one continent to another, proffering an international perspective 
and vision to adult education, and, through adult education, to 
mankind for building a new social order. 

Roby was friendly and generous, with a strong sense of the 
mission of adult education. He liked most people, and most of 
them liked him. I met Roby for the first time in 1954. in 
Toronto, and from that time until he died, I received the utmost 
courtesy, support, guidance, and affection from him. In return, my 
respect for him grew. I shall alv;ays be grateful to him for what 
he made of me. and of the adult education movement in India. 
We had common perceptions about the goals and roles of adult 
education in developing countries, and he strove hard to give it 
form and content in these places. 

Very early in his life, he was appalled at the misery and 
squalor of the poor people, and was concerned with means and 
methods of bringing about improvement in their lives. Therefore, 
my meeting with him in 1954 was really a meeting of kindred 
spirits, because I had come to the conclusion that adult education 
must become an instrument of social change. Immediately after 
1954, Roby started talking about international co-operation» 
collaboration, interaction, and exchange; and urged CAAE to move 
forward* 

Writing in Food for Thought, Roby said. 

We have recently received in the library a book from 
India, a report of the Indian Adult Education 



1L2 



98 



Asscxnation for the past 21 years. The report is edited 
by the General Secretary, S. C. Dutta, who was in 
Canada several years ago ... It is interesting to note 
that the title of the report is On to Eternity, a title 
which reflects an interesting difference between 
ourselves and our colleagues in Asia. Because the 
CAAE has now survived a full quarter century 
perhaps we, too, should be planning for more than 
the next twelve months. If not "On to Eternity' let us 
at least plan to do something significant in the rest of 
this century which some have claimed for Canada 

While Roby talked about "an interesting difTerence," he also 
talked about characteristics shared between India and Canada. In 
his article entitled, "Change with Consent", which appeared in the 
Souvenir volume of the Nehru Literacy Fund Drive, published by 
IAEA (Kidd, 1965), Roby stated that adult educators in India and 
Canada believe that "Man is capable of greatness, capable of 
freedom, to be encouraged, enlightened, and enlarged." 

Talking about international co-operation, and Nehru's call to 
the Indian people (when Indians woke to Independence on August 
15, 1947) to dedicate themselves "to the service of India and her 
people, and to the still larger cause of humanity,'' Roby concluded 
that India and Canada "will continue as friends and colleagues, 
and as companions on the long, long road that leads at last to 
universal brotherhood.'' 

Roby's commitment to international development was an 
active one. He organized the Overseas Book Centre (1959), and 
the Overseas Institute (1961) which grew into the Canadian Council 
for International Co-operation. Thus. Roby reached out to peoples 
of other lands in a variety of ways with the sole intention of 
serving those who were in need of such service. 

He also worked in the Caribbean, and India, and with many 
colleagues in various countries. He took on responsibilities in 
international organizations which I will mention later just to give 
an idea of the wide sweep of his interest — interest with the sole 
objective of educating the minds of all people of all lands so that 
they can learn to live together in peace and harmony. 

Roby dreamed of humanity and universal brotherhood. The 
motive for most of his activities was to build a brotherhood of 
adult educators, belonging to all races, sexes, and coimtries, for 
establishing a new social order of free and happy people. This 
led him to the international field. For almost thirty- five years, he 
travelled round the world creating a group of friends wedded to 
the cause of adult education. 

Roby was a creative thinker, a brilliant scholar and practical 



113 



99 



leader. Others will be writing about his scholarship and his 
thoughts. I only wish to highlight his role as a practidd leader, a 
crusader, and an entrepreneur for the promotion and development 
of adult education throughout the world Actually it is this role 
that e?med him a lasting place in the history of adult education. 
As a leader of the international adult education movenient, he 
stood head and shoulders above the lesL While Roby had a high 
degree of pragmatism he was, as indicated earlier, an idealist And 
this unique blend of idealism and pragmatism helped him to 
become an apostle of international co-operation and human 
brotherhood In many of his speeches, he appreciatively quoted Sir 
Rabindranath Tagore, saluting The Gold of Humanity, The 
following are the verses: 

On the shores of Bharat 

Where men of all races have come together 

Awake, O my mind 

Standing here with outstretched arms 

I send my salutation to the God of Humanity 

None live forever, brother, keep that in mind and rejoice 

Beauty is sweet to us because she dances to the same 

fluting tune as our lives 
Knowledge is precious to us 
Because we will never have time to complete it 

RabindrEuiath Tagore 

Roby was also an apostle of international understanding, 
because he believed that if human beings had a better 
understanding of one another, most prejudices would disappear and 
the ground would be clear for the building of a better world I 
learnt a lot from Roby, but the greatest lesson I learnt from him 
was "that while we must break barriers within our own country, 
we must build bridges with other countries." It was this idea of 
building bridges that took Roby to China and Vietnam. 

I was the Chairman of the Asian South Pacific Bureau of 
Adult Education, from its inception in 1964 imtil 1976. The bureau 
covered a large number of countries inhabited by vast populations, 
most of them poor and illiterate, with great variations in their 
perceptions, goals, hopes, and aspirations. In one of our Executive 
committee meetings, it was decided that instead of one monolithic 
structure with one chairman, we should think of carrying out our 
structure on a regional basis, and I was asked to draft a 
constitution. In the draft, I proposed four regions, one of which 
consisted of Laos, Kampuchea, Vietnam, and China. This proposal 
was accepted by the ASPBAE at its meeting held at Dar es 
Salaam, in 1976, along with the meeting of the International 



114 



100 



Council for Adult Education. This proposal got the enthusiastic 
support of Roby. Actually. I was encouraged by Roby to make 
this proposal. 

In this connection. I would like to narrate a small incident 
which shows Roby's thinking on the question of creating better 
understanding. The International Jury responsible for awarding the 
UNESCO Literacy prize was meeting in New Delhi. Roby was 
staying in the capital's posh five- star hotel. Ashoka. At that time. 
I used to live amidst foreign embassies and chanceries, very close 
to the hotel in Chanakyapuri. named after ancient India's famous 
economist and diplomat, Chanakya. Every evening. I used to walk 
up to his room to discuss some of the common thoughts and 
strategies for the promotion of adult education in developing 
countries. There was an outstanding educationist from the Soviet 
Union on the International Jury. He was also staying in Ashoka. 
Roby suggested that we should meet him. Fortunately for us. he 
was accompanied by an interpreter, who was with him when I 
rang him. He was kind enough to agree to see us immediately. 
The interpreter was not a mere professional interpreter but an 
outstanding educationist in his own right Therefore, we were able 
to have a very illuminating discussion. It was then that we 
realized that without the Soviet Union and China, the international 
adult education movement will not be truly represented Roby, in 
his characteristic way. started working towards bringing adult 
educators from these countries within the fold. 

In 1954. when I first met him. it became clear to me that 
Roby was not satisfied with the narrow western goals of adult 
education, either as remedial education, as extra-mural education, 
or as discussion on current affairs. He was toying with the idea 
of adult education being a dynamic instrument for solving 
problems which arose after the Second World War. He was 
looking forward to the social, economic, and international 
dimensions of adult education. Therefore, when in 1956 I wrote 
that "adult education will be a harbinger of a new world order 
of free and happy people." Roby applauded the idea. At that 
time. I had written about the role and functions of [the] adult 
educator, stating that: 

He will assist in the establishment of a pattern of 
social behaviour and practices, of certain social values, 
which enable people to progress and establish a 
society based on equality of opportunity, and freedom 
of thought and action. He will prepare human minds 
to absorb technological changes necessary for such a 
society. He will, in short, assist with the development 
of cultural requirements of a new society that is being 



101 



evolved in the country. 

Roby*s support of these roles and functions of adult educators 
clearly indicates that he was aware of the emergence of the field 
of continuous learning. He also saw the need for professional 
training in adult education, and for encompassing values in 
behavioural practices. In the report to the annual meeting of the 
CAAE, in 1956, Roby spoke strongly about the importance of good 
personal training. 

Some of the efforts to give momentum to professionalism in 
the field in Canada accelerated, and this concern for 
professionalism in adult education was partly responsible for Roby 
taking up an assignment first in the Oribbean, and later in India. 

This was the beginning of Roby's shift to the international 
scene. After his Caribbean assignment, Roby started getting 
involved with UNESCO and other international organizations, and 
he became a world traveller. Earlier, in 1952. Roby went on a 
two- month trip to Europe during which he visited Great Britain 
and several other countries in Scandinavia and Western Europe, 
and addressed a UNESCO Conference on Workers' Education. ITie 
links with UNESCO, and his involvement in its activities, launched 
him on his international development work, and on his most 
fruitful and lasting contribution to adult education. 

His sojourn in the Caribbean was very fruitful because he 
was able to get "an impression of the character and excitement of 
an enterprise in which a whole people in a new country are 
beginning to employ continuing education as a means of achieving 
self- determination and a more satisfying life" (Kidd, 1959). For 
the preparation of the report on Adult Education in the 
Caribbean, Roby talked with more than two hundred people. This 
itself was an educational endeavour, and Roby was "full of 
admiration for the conception of the Extra- Mural Programme of 
the University College and for the intelligence and courage shown 
in carrying it out under enormous difficulties" (Kidd. 1959). Roby 
was sure that the people could be helped to advance quickly, "if 
these efforts are guided by sound education." Roby's stay in those 
islands, his studies, and his discussions left two very lasting 
impressions. One he gained from a West Indian sociologist and 
lyric poet, M. G. Smith. This was: "Build now. while time is 
burning, forward before it's late." The second, he learned from H. 
D. Carberry: 

There shall come a time 
When these children in rage 
Who litter the streets 

Who know the crushing mastery of poverty 



102 



And the curses of dirt and slovenliness 

Shall walk the earth with heads erect 

Masters of themselves 

Proud owners of a new world 

AdTnitting no inequality 

Feeling no inferiority 

Only a great wonder and humility 

At the destiny that will be theirs. 



These two quotations which Roby included in his Report clearly 
indicate the way his mind was working, and the direction his 
theory and practice of adult education was to take in the future. 

The most outstanding event of the decade in the field of 
adult education was the Second World Conference on Adult 
Education held in Montreal in 1960. Roby was elected its 
President, and the Conference brought out the best in him. The 
world at that time was passing through a critical and tense period 
of the cold war; and there was a wide feeling tliat the adult 
educators assembled at Montreal would also be influenced by the 
cold war, and would not be able to achieve any concrete result 
This Conference was attended by two outstanding adult educators 
from India, Mr. Ranjit M. Chetsingh, founder and General 
Secretary of the Indian Adult Education Association and at that 
time its Vice-President, and Mr. J. C. Mathur, Indian Civil 
Service, then Director General of All India Radio who later 
became the Editor of the Indian Journal of Adxdt Education. 

Roby v^orked hard with Chetsingh and a few others to 
achieve consensus, and eventually the Conference adopted an 
agreed decoration which is named the Montreal Declaration. 

The Montreal Conference was successful in a professional 
sense because it placed the challenge of lifelong education before 
the world community, and urged "that the people everywhere 
should come to accept adult education as normal, and that 
governments should treat it as a necessary part of the educational 
provision of every country." 

By his tactful handling, ability, and acumen, Roby emerged 
from the Conference as perhaps the most respected leader in the 
field of adult education at the international level. 

In the closing moments of the International Conference, 
Roby once again propounded his philosophy which was to be his 
beacon- light: 

If there is to be a general advance in adult education 
all over the world then those responsible for it must 
know each other, must realize, indeed must feel, they 



103 



share common purposes; must employ the most useful 
methods ana techniques. It is possible for men and 
women to work together over vast gulfs of geography 
and colour and language, but only if they share a 
common body of knowledge and skill, and only if 
they trust each other. 

And it must be said to the greatness of Roby that on 
March 21, 1982, he left a large number of friends, colleagues, 
adr .ers, and students in over 100 countries of the world who 
shared "a common body of knowledge and skill" and shared a 
common purpose. 

Having established himself as an international development 
leader, Roby was requested, in 1959, to be the first chairman of 
the Committee on Adult Education, constituted by the World 
Confederation of Organizations of the Teaching Profession. He 
presided over the international conferences organized by this 
Committee in Washington in 1959, and New Delhi in 1961. The 
Indian Adult Education Association was asked to organize the 1961 
Conference. A Report of the conference edited by Helen Kempfer 
and S. C. Dutta was brought out by IAEA (1961). One hundred 
and twenty- one participants representing thirty- three countries from 
six continents attended. Significantly. Roby in his summing up 
used the phrase "adult education fellowship," and declared, "an 
increase in international understanding and goodwill." This address 
clearly indicated the future course of his work, thought, and 
action. Roby said, "The most notable thing, of course, affecting 
our discussions was the fact of change. It is not enough to accept 
change, or to tolerate it, but to welcome it, to have reverence for 
order and at the same time have unflinching rationality running 
through." Another result was the confirmation of our belief, "that 
education can have an effect on all people, and all people can 
learn." Furthermore, 

The Conference has had its effects in deepening our 
present insights and bringing new insights. Deepening 
our understanding of the special difficulties and special 
opportunities of the teachers in adult education, and 
their special requirements of training. Deepening our 
understanding that man himself is the only reliable 
force for social change. Deepening our awareness that 
for all countries all levels of education for men and 
women are needed simultaneously; that in all countries 
there is a very great and significant role for women 
(Kemper & Dutta, 1961). 



104 



Before concluding Roby said, "But all along I think we 
have had in our mind the person who is being educated, the man 
or woman, about whose growth and development we are deeply 
concerned, the development of the free man, the development of 
the free soul," and he quoted Tagore's message and vision that 
we have for this work of ours in adult education: 

Where the mind is without fear and the head is held high: 
Where knowledge is free 

Where the world has not been broken up into fragments by 

narrow domestic walls 
Where words come up from the depths of truth; 
Where the clear stream of reason has not lost its way in 

the dreary desert of dead habit 
Where the mind is led forward into ever- widening thought 

and action. 

Gitanjali 



A free man in a free society was the goal to which Roby 
dedicated the rest of his life. 

This was one of Uie few occasions when Roby and I spent 
a lot of time together and talked about our future hopes and 
dreams. Both of us came from the non- official sector of the 
adult education movement, and both of us were able to establish 
good working relations with our respective national governments in 
order to jointly initiate adult education programs and projects; but 
in many countries this was not the case. Similarly, at the 
international level, both of us were not very happy at the 
direction and functioning of UNESCO. Both of us felt that, while 
we should make use of national and international governmental 
and intergovernmental structures, we should plan to develop 
regional and international non- governmental adult education 
organizations. 

Most probably it was during this period that Roby came to 
know that I was working as General Secretatry of IAEA in a 
voluntary capacity, while earning my livelihood in All India Radio 
as a newscaster. In his characteristic thoughtful mood, Roby said, 
"Why can't I also take up a paid job and devote my free time 
to the promotion and development of adult education in all the 
countries which need me, with greater freedom." Perhaps this was 
the reason why he took up the General Secretaryship of ICAE in 
a purely voluntary capacity. Later, jokingly, he said, "In many 
ways I take cue from you." But this was more to himiour and 
encoiu'age me. To spend time with Roby was always to have 
one's imagination enlarged, and one's spirit rekindled. He always 



105 



made one think and dream. He looked to the future, because to 
him the future was more important than the present 

On July 28, 1961, Roby presented a cheque of US $1,500 on 
behalf of CAAE to IAEA for its headquarters, Shafiq Memorial. 
In his address, Roby said. 

Paradoxically, adult education is the newest and oldest 
form of organized instruction. Men first learned from, 
and taught, each other. Later they arranged for the 
orderly instruction of children. Confucius had a school 
for his mature disciples long before there were 
organized schools for the young. Centuries before the 
beginnings of universities in Western Europe, thousands 
of years before the modem era of technical and 
educational assistance programs in which we esc all so 
interested, scholars in their thousands travelled to 
India, as they might now travel to Oxford or Harvard 
or the Sor bonne; 

And he added, 

Shafiq Memorial re-establishes an ancient tradition; it 
stands in the place of, upon the foundation of, notable 
schools for men and women; this is a national but 
also an international centre, which will be a symbol 
and a force affecting people everywhere. 

It is our intention to make Roby's prediction come true. 
The Roby Kidd Foundation has been set up in India as a 
memorial and a tribute to the outstanding part Roby played in 
the promotion of adult education at the international level. The 
Foundation will stimulate the international co- operation in the 
field of adult education th?.t was so dear to Roby. This is 
another manifestation of Rob> s international outreach. 

Reiterating that, "a remarkable feature of adult education is 
internationalism," Roby said. 

The greatest gift of India is not nationalism with its 
power to glorify or to profane — the gift of India is 
spiritual, one that binds people together; just as 
scholars journeyed to India in the past, so is India's 
influence extending far and wide today . . . There is 
a growing affinity between Canada and India. Our 
delegations work closely with yours; at the UN we 
serve on the same truce teams; we seem to share 
principles and practices that go deeper than consciousness. 



120 



106 



In cx)nclusion, in a voice which still rings in our ears, 
reminding us of our mission, Roby said, "The Shafiq Memorial, 
we are sure, will continue the age-old traditions of India, but will 
not be shocked by everyday wisdom; it is the pathway to the 
new, a centre of eternal childhood." 

Roby, who had already gained a high reputation in 
international circles for his capacity and judgement, continued to 
make outstanding contributions to the field for the rest of his life, 
growing in stature, respect, and influence. 

Following the Montreal Conference, Roby was appointed 
Chairman of UNESCO's Committee for the Advancement of Adult 
Education for a two-year te^m, and was re-elected in 1963 and 
1965. Another instance of recognition of his work was that "The 
Creative Crusade," his address on the need for sharing and 
mutual assistance in the world community, was awarded an 
international prize by the Fund for Adult Education in 1960. 

In this talk, Roby dealt with men and women who 
journeyed from their own land on various missions of technical 
assistance, their job being to help other men to help themselves: 
they go. not to destroy an enemy but to win a friend Roby said, 
"The creative crusade accepts as an axiom that half the people of 
the world who went hungry to bed last night will no longer 
accept as their certain destiny that their mission must continue — 
the h^ve nots are convinced that this condition of half- rich, 
half-starved must be ended." Roby emphasized the need for social 
justice on a global scale, and the need for world brotherhood. He 
also said that without continuing education people are not helped 
to help themselves, and quoted C. V. Nsirashimham, Associate 
Managing Director of the UN Special Fund as saying, "it seems 
to me that more attention has to be given to the development of 
the human being for whose benefit all economic development is 
primarily intended." 

I have quoted extensively from Roby's various speeches to 
show that this world citizen was always talking and dreaming of 
world brotherhood, international development, social justice, and 
continuing education. 

I propose to deal with three international conferences, one 
held in Udaipur, India, in October 1977, the second held at San 
Jose, Costa Rica, in July 1978, and the third held in Finland in 
mid- June 1979 to indicate Roby's international outreach — his 
creation of international brotherhood. Mention will also be made 
of Roby's visits to China and Vietnam. These will indicate his 
extensive international contacts, the agreements signed, the projects 
planned for international exchange of individuals and ideas, and 
the projects for promotion of adult education in developing 
countries. Together with these new ideas, I will touch on the 



12l 



107 



impact they are having on the theory and practice of adult 
education in the so-called developed world. It is not for me to 
outline the basic changes taking place in the social, political, and 
economic structures of the developed and developing world as a 
result of the ideas and philosophies of adult educators; however, I 
wish to record that Roby was instrumental in initiating ideas 
which did identify the "alternatives," or "other way." This was his 
greatest contribution as a catalyst of alternative ideas for the 
development of mankind. The conference in Paris (1982) on 
"Authentic Development" epitomized the great life that this great 
world citizen lived and died for — a world free from poverty, 
inequality, injustice, violence, and conflict 

The Ucaipur conference was held on October 12-16, 1977, 
on the Role of Workers* Organizations and Workers' Education in 
Integrated Rural Development Nearly one himdred men and 
women from over tventy-five countries representing all continents 
attended the conference. Delegates included both practising adult 
educators and active trade unionists, all concerned with rural 
workers* organizations. Among their number was V. C. Deven 
Nair, then ICFTU Asian Regional President but currently President 
of Uie Republic of Singapore. 

The participants agreed on a ' Declaration stating that 
integrated rural development starts with the needs of the millions 
of rural poor and seeks to involve all such people in the 
decisions and programs for their development The action program 
suggested arousing the rural people*s awareness that they have the 
intelligence and power to be self-reliant in solving their problems; 
allowing them to determine their own needs and problems 
according to their own views of social, cultural, and economic 
realities; and to identify solutions. The action program further 
suggested the development of workers* education through viable 
and independent organizations established and operated by rural 
workers. Thus, the Declaration carried forward the thrust already 
agreed upon at Dar es Salaam. 

The conference revealed two things: one, that Roby was 
planning to work in co-operation with the trade union movement 
at the international level. This is a feature common to both I/lEA 
and CAAE; and two, his ideas on development were shared by 
trade union leaders. Roby used this conf^^ence, the IAEA Annual 
Conference, and the ICAE meeting in planning his visit to China 
and Vietnam to bring adult educators from these countries within 
the ICAE. 

A conference at San Jose, Costa Rica, was organized jointly 
by the International Council for Adult Education, the 
Inter- American Institute for Agricultural Sciences (IICA), and the 
Organization of American States (OAS). The theme of this 



122 



108 



conference was "Adult Education and Community Enterprises in 
Development" Simultaneously, the ICAE Sixth Annual Meeting 
was held. Over one hundred men and women representing 
thirty-one countries attended the conference. This provided a 
unique opportunity for information- sharing about the Latin 
American contributions to the theory and practice of adult and 
non-formal education. At the same time, delegates learned about 
the economic and social development work, and training program, 
undertaken by IICA (the OAS' specialized agency for the 
agriculture sector), and other institutions and groups in Latin 
America. The conference clearly demonstrated that far-reaching 
developments in adult education were under way there. The fact 
that the conference was inaugurated by the President of the 
Republic of Costa Rica, Rodrigo Carazo Odio, was proof of the 
importance given to adult education. 

The focus in the conference was on the marginal and rural 
poor, and tfie recognition, by the agricultural scientists, of the 
essential role of adult education for technical and economic 
improvement, for participation and analysis of issues and 
alternatives, and for providing educational content that is directly 
relevant to the lives, needs, and aspirations of the rural poor. 

The highlight of this conference, however, was the 
agreement for co-operation signed by the General Secretariat of 
the Organization of American States and the International Council 
for Adult Education, This was the tirst time that the OAS had 
entered into an agreement with a non-govenunental organization, 
and was a tribute to Roby and to the effectiveness of NGOs. 
Thus, tlie San Jose conference marks Roby's outreach to the Latin 
American countries, and the ICAE's strategies to "Come to grips 
with the Latin American economic and political reality of unequal 
distribution of wealth, and of the means of production." 

During the Seventh Annual General Meeting of the ICAE 
which was held in Finland in mid- June 1979 (about the time of 
the Murikka Conference on Peace Education), Roby stepped down 
from the Secretary-Generalship and became Treasurer and 
consultant in international relations. More than one hundred men 
and women from thirty- seven countries attended. Many participants 
stayed on to attend the international seminar on "Adult Education 
and the Future," organized by the Finnish Association of Adult 
Education orgaiazations. This organization, just like IAEA, had 
many features that were dear to Roby. Strengthening international 
co-operation, and promoting world peace, social justice, and 
outreach, were fundamental to all the organization's adult education 
activities. Initially, the Association used these annual meetings to 
foster international relations and deeper understanding among adult 
educators everywhere; now. however, these meetings discuss issues 



12 J 



109 



of world-wide dimensions, with particular focus on human and 
environmental survival. A. notable feature of these gatherings is 
that adult educators from communist countries, whose contacts with 
many parts of the world are often limited to formal meetings of 
intergovernmental bodies like UNESCO, feel at home and are 
welcomed to full participation. 

The Murikka conference, by the end of the week, had 
reached a consensus on priorities for adult education efforts, 
because most of the participants were drawn together by their 
common concem for international economic and social justice, and 
world peace. 

Now I come to the last great act of Roby as an 
international adult educator. His effort was aimed at bringing the 
Soviet Union, China and Vietnam within ICAE, The Soviet Union 
had started taking an interest in joining adult educators from other 
countries. Some representatives did start joining adult educators of 
other countries at ICAE meetings, seminars, and so on. However, 
in 1981, the ICAE established a three^year program with the 
People's Republic of China, designed to study and report on adult 
and non- formal education experiences in China, Phase one of the 
program consisted of visits to China by two small study groups, 
and the preparation and dissemination of materials for use both 
within China and abroad 

The first study group visited China from March 21 to April 
14, 1984, t ider this project An international seminar was held in 
China to which representatives of other countries were invited. 

The ICAE — China Co-operation Ffoject was developed 
under the direction of Roby Kidd. He started cultivating 
relationships with China by conferring with their Ministry of 
Education officials during the International Symposium on Literacy 
at Persepolis, Iran in September 1975* As a result of these and 
other discussions, Roby and Paxil Mhaiki, the iCAE Vice-President 
from Tanzania, now with UNESCO, went to Beijing in May 1978. 
as guests of the Vice- Minister of Education. During 1978-79. 
Roby continued his contacts through correspondence with the 
Ministry of Education. The response was friendly, and a small 
planning team was invited to Beijing in early 1980. Roby and 
Chris Duke went to China in late April 1980. They had 
discussions with the Vice- Minister of Education, the Bureau Chief 
of Worker- Peasant Education Research, and two officials of the 
Chinese National Commission for UNESCO. These discussions 
revealed that the oflicials were convinced of the usefulness of 
relationships with the ICAE, and with other countries through the 
ICAE and ASPBAE. 

The ensuing rapport and agreement demonstrate that Roby, 
as ambassador- at- large of education, achieved a major 



121 



110 



brcak&rough in bringing China into the international adult 
education movement for exchange of information, ideas, and 
personnel. Enlarging the brotherhood of adult educators by 
bringing the most popidated country within the ICAE was a great 
achievement indeed. 

We may find it worthwhile to recall that Roby visited 
China for the first time in 1965. After his visit, he wrote, "To 
simplify, but not to distort too much. China is the creation of 
two schoolmasters: Confucius and Mao Tse Tung." 

Later, in a paper submitted to iJie Commonwealth 
Conference on Non- formal Education, held in New Delhi in 1978. 
Roby made these significant f>oints: 

The styles of both these societies (China and India) 
are profoundly educative, they form much of the 
character and substance of non- formal education; both 
countries value vocational education, and see that 
education associated with vocational improvement is 
central; in both countries, artistic skills and the 
development of appreciation of arts are valued; in 
both countries, communication skills are emphasized. 

Later Roby and Paul visited Vietnam. Here the task was 
not so difnculL The Vietnamese were willing; however, their 
participation in international meetings was restricted because of 
financial constraints. About his visit Roby wrote, "We were 
convinced that adult education is a process and a movement that 
binds together those of different languages, cultures, ideologies; 
that all countries and peoples have much to contribute as well as 
leaxn." 

As stated earlier, on March 21, 1982, Roby left thousands of 
adult educators in over one hundred counaies who shared his 
dreams, hopes, and aspirations, with sentiments such as the 
following: "Those who will dare may lead the way to a better 
world for all," or "The great days are ahead, difficult and 
dangerous days but yet days in which the dragon of want may at 
last be slain, and the plagues of ignorance and hatred may be 
checked, in part at least, through the continuing education of men 
and women." 

This chapter may give the impression that I have painted 
Roby as a superman; far from it — I have written these words 
primarily for what Roby did, and for what he inspired 
insignificant mortals like me to do. Roby was a gift to mankind 
because he always fought for human values. A humanist to the 
core, he supported ideas anu work which would ultimately benefit 
the common men and women throughout the world. 



1<?5 



Ill 



References 

Kempfer. H. & Dutta, S. C. (Eds.). (1961). Report of the 
international conference on adult education. New Delhi: 
Indian Adult Education Assodation. 

Kidd, J. R. (1958). Adidt education in the Caribbean: the 
extra^ mural department of the U niversity College of the 
West Indies. Toronto: Canadian Association for Adult 
Education. 

(1961). Continuing education. Ottawa: Canadian Conference on 

Education (Conference Study No. 6). 
(1965). Change with consent: Continuing education, India and 

Canada. In Nehru Literacy Fund Drive, A Souvenir. New 

Delhi: Indian Adult Education Association. 
Selman. G. R. (1982). Roby Kidd and the Canadian Adult 

Education Association 1951- 196 L Vancouver: University of 

British Columbia. Centre for Continuing Education. 



CHAPTER 8 



CULTURAL AND HUMANITARIAN ACTiViTIES 

LEADING TO AN INTERNATIONAL ROLE AND FOCUS 

W. A. Teager 

Make no small plans; they have no magic to stir 
men's minds. 

D. H. Bumham 

As one looks at Roby's activities in the fifties and sixties, one 
cannot help but be impressed with the number of projects he 
undertook, some of them with great intensity. The wonder is not 
so much that he accomplished so much but that he did it while 
discharging with distinction his responsibilities as Director of the 
Canadian Association for Adult Education (CAAE) and later, in 
Ottawa, as Secretary- Treasurer of the Social Science and 
Humanities Research Councils of Canada. Among his main 
interests were: 



Public Relations Society 
Canadian Film Institute 
Canadian Film Awards 
Canadian Citizenship Council 
Canadian Centenary Council 
Joint Planning Commission 
Indian- Eskimo Association 

Centennial International 



Peter Martin Associates 
Frontier College 
Bon Echo Foundation 
Overseas Book Centre 
Overseas Institute of Canada 
International Co-operation Year 
Readers' Club of Canada 
Development Program 



These were all groups or programs to which Roby gave of 
his time, his expertise, his enthusiasm, and his capacity for hard 
work. If there was a trend that marked this period of his life, it 
was a growing interest in, and commitment to, international 
development The focus was on education, particularly adult 
learning, and on inter- cultural understanding and friendship, but 
the thrust was international and it culminated in the formation of 
the International Council for Adult Education. 



12/ 



113 



Through his travels with the CAAE, and particularly through 
his work with UNESCO, Roby had come to know many 
representatives of other countries, and his relationships with them 
were always warm and friendly. He recognized the difficulties 
most of them faced, and he empathized with them. 

An incident in my home after Roby returned from the 
Caribbean illustrated his warm regard for the people with whom 
he had worked in Jamaica. He was visiting when a neighbour 
came in to see us. We were chatting pleasantly, Roby his usual 
charming self, when she mentioned that she didn't like Jamaicans. 
Why don't you like Jamaicans?" Roby asked quietly. "Because 
they don't make good ser\'ants," was her reply. With quite 
uncharacteristic rudeness, Roby snapped, "Madam, I would not 
make a good servant either." He had no patience with people 
who were prejudiced. 

With one exception, Roby received no remuneration from 
any of these organizations mentioned. The exception was the 
Public Relations Society in which his friend, Walter Herbert, was 
actively interested. Walter chuckled as he recalled what happened: 

I dragged him into the Public Relations Society. Roby 
was the first examiner for our accreditation program 
and I have a letter at home still in which the 
President of the society had written him and asked 
him if he would accept the position — and it was a 
paid one — not much — of chief examiner. In the 
copy of his reply he (Roby) said, "Yes, I will take it 
on if Walter Herbert will be one of the examiners." 

Roby loved to have a little fun with his friends and this was his 
return poke at Walter. 



The Canadian Film Institute 

Roby had always been interested in films. He was one of the 
instigators of the Canadian Film Awards. He took a great interest 
in the Canadian Film Institute (CFI), and was responsible for 
getting Charles Topshee. an adult educator from Nova Scotia, to 
the CFI in 1955. Roby served on the Board of CFI for a number 
of years and became a firm friend of Topshee. In 1962, Topshee 
went tc Basutoland (now Lesotho) to work with the University 
there as Extension Director, and the two kept in touch. It was a 
great blow to Roby when Chariie died shortly after his return 
from Africa (Mrs. C. Topshee, personal communication, March 22, 



128 



warm and friendly. He recognized the difficulties 

faced, and he empathized with them, 
ident in my home after Roby returned from the 
istiated his warm regard for the people with whom 
ed in Jamaica. He was visiting when a neighbour 
ee us. We were chatting pleasantly, Roby his usual 

when she mentioned that she didn't like Jamaicans, 
you like Jamaicans?" Roby asked quietly. "Because 
nake good ser\'ants," was her reply. With quite 
: rudeness, Roby snapped, "Madam, I would not 
I servant either." He had no patience with people 
judiced 

ne exception, Roby received no remuneration from 
5 organizations mentioned. The exception was the 
ns Society in which his friend, Walter Herbert, was 
5ted. Walter chuckled as he recalled what happened: 

5d him into the Public Relations Society. Roby 
; first examiner for our accreditation program 

have a letter at home still in which the 
t of the society had written him and asked 
he would accept the position — and it was a 
e — not much — of chief examiner. In the 

his reply he (Roby) said. "Yes, I will take it 
/alter Herbert will be one of the examiners." 

D have a little fun with his friends and this was his 
t Walter. 



The Canadian Film Institute 

^ays been interested in films. He was one of the 
the Canadian Film Awards. He took a great interest 
iian Film Institute (CFI), and was responsible for 
IS Topshee, an adult educator from Nova Scotia, to 
'55. Roby served on the Board of CFI for a number 
became a finn friend of Topshee. In 1962, Topshee 
itoland (now Lesotho) to work with the University 
nsion Director, and the two kept in touch. It was a 
) Roby when Charlie died shortly after his return 
Mrs. C. Topshee, personal communication, March 22, 



128 



115 



He (Roby) got interested in Allen Sapp, a Cree, I 
think. As a young man Allen had TB and took up 
painting . . . became really a fantastic painter of the 
Canadian scene . . . Well, Roby was a main push 
behind the Allen Sapp story. 

Here again Roby's interest in Canada's native peoples — 
discussed later in comiection with the Indian- Eskimo Association — 
and his ready recognition of genuine ability led him to give all 
the support he could to a promising artist 



The Canadian Centenary Council (Hanna, 1968). 

Keenly interested as John and Roby were in their country, it was 
natural they should talk about the forthcoming himdredth 
anniversary of Confederation. The result was that the CAAE 
joined with the Citizenship Council in sponsoring, on May 6, 1959, 
a first conference on "Planning Ahead for Canada's Centennial." 
then fewer than eight years away. Thirty- two representatives of 
different organizations attended. A second meeting was held in 
February, 1960 with Walter Herbert as Chairman. John Kidd made 
a strong statement to stimulate thinking, and Roby spoke on 
"Emphases and Objectives." 

Three months later, on May 17, I960, the Canadian 
Centenary Council was formed when 80 delegates met in Ottawa. 
The Council aimed at making it possible for Canadian voluntary 
and other non- governmental organizations to participate in the 
Centennial observances. The Centennial Commission, the federal 
agency with John Fisher as Commissioner, was not established 
until January, 1963. 

Most local groups interested in Centenary activities became 
members of the Canadian Centenary Council which linked with 
Expo '67 and the Centennial Commission in a tripartite, 
co-ordinating secretariat Also, the Council set up Youth Advisory 
and Ethnic Advisory Panels in 1966, to ensure the optimum 
participation of youth and ethnic groups. The Council brought 
together in one agency, representatives of religious, educational, 
cultural, recreational, labour, and business groups (A. M. Clarke, 
personal communication, Jan. 31, 1984). Two hundred and fifty 
voluntary organizations participated, as well as more than 600 
corporations from business, industry, and commerce. 

The E. B. Eddy Company sponsored a half-hour film, 
produced by Crawley Films. Roby appeared in the film along 
with such distinguished Canadians as Vincent Massey, A. Y. 
Jackson, Marius Barbeau, Maurice Richard, and others. 



130 



116 



As Executive Director of the initiatirg agency, the CAAE, 
Roby played a prominent role in the begnmings of the Coiincil; 
and he was active throughout as a member of the Board of 
Directors. Roby was the one who asked the second conference, in 
1960, "Can we have a touring Canadian exhibition on wheels for 
the Centennial, one which could be seen in each and every 
province, showing Canada to Canadians?" Seven years later the 
Confederation Train became a highly visible and very popular 
feature all across Canada (Hanna, 1968). 

At the final meeting of the Council, early in 1967, Senator 
Norman A. M. MacKenzie paid special tribute to the Council's 
founders. Dr. Roby Kidd and Colonel Hugh M. Wallis. A formal 
resolution of that meeting also paid tribute to John Kidd, who 
had died in 1962. 



The Joint Planning Commission and Indian- Eskimo 
Association of Canada 

The Joint Planning Commission (JPC) was an all-inclusive body 
representing Canadian voluntary organizations. Ned Corbett. 
Director of the CAAE at the time, John Robbins, then Director 
of the Canadian Council on Education for Citizenship (later the 
Canadian Citizenship Council), and Walter Herbert, Director of the 
Canada Foundation, were influential in setting it up. Herbert 
served as Chairman for fourteen yeairs. 

The JPC was establ ished as a wing of th e CAAE, an d 
Roby worked closely with it as it became a uruque and valuable 
clearing-house for the organizations involved. Roby wrote a letter 
to some key people in the JPC, dated November 7, 1952, 
following his trip from several European countries, in which he 
said of the JPC, "This extraordinary organization of ours ... the 
Joint Planning Comjnission, is the wonder and interest of people 
in every other country . . . Others are keen to leam from us 
how many and diverse interests can find common ground and be 
of assistance to each other." 

It was at a meeting ot the JPC that a proposal was put 
forward to study the problems of the native peoples of Canada. 
As a result, Roby set up the i^ational Commission on the Indian 
Canadians in 1958. Clare Clark was appointed chairman (W. B. 
Herbert. J. R Robbins, C. W. Clark, personal commimication, 
Feb. 6 & Feb. 20, 1984). Two years later the Commission became 
independent of the CAAE, and Clare Clark became the first 
President, an ofTice she held from 1960 to 1965 (C. W. Clark, 
personal conununication, Feb. 20, 1984). In 1958, John Melling, 
who had been doing extension work with Leeds University in 



117 



England and wanted to come to Canada, was appointed Executive 
Director. The name Indian- Eskimo Association of Canada was 
chosen, and the organization was incorporated under that name (C 
W. Clark, personal communication, Feb. 20, 1984). 

Roby had persuaded Alfred (Alf) Best, who had served in 
the same capacity for the Bon Echo Foundation, later the 
Overseas Institute of Canada, and the Overseas Book Centre, to 
be Honorary Solicitor (R. A. Best, personal communication, Jan. 
22, 1984). Best and his partner did a great deal of work for the 
I- EA in its early years. 

Melling was succeeded, in 1963, by Ernest R. McEwen who 
believed strongly in the thrust of the I-EA, which was to enable 
the native peoples to organize themselves. But some of the native 
leaders wanted to speak for their groups themselves, and they 
urged a change of name of the I-EA to reflect this. They also 
asked the I-EA to support their role under the new name, to 
assist them in raising necessary funds, and to sponsor an in-depth 
search of native rights. McEwen left early in 1970 to work with 
the Citizenship Branch of the federal government in developing 
policy for involving native groups in "participatory democracy" (R 
R. McEwen, personal communication, April 6, 1984); and Allan 
Clark, the Assistant Director of I-EA, succeeded him as Director. 

In line with the requests of the native leaders, the name 
was changed to Canadian A ic in Support of the Native 
Peoples (CASNP). By 1973, u .Live groups were taking more 
and more responsibility. CAL ^P thus became a supporting 
organization working in co-operation with the Indian Centre in 
Toronto, and with groups across Canada. 

Roby was involved only incidentally in the ongoing 
operations of the I-EA once it got well under way. He was a 
prime mover, however, and his initiaiive and support had been 
important, especially in its beginnings (C. W. Clark, personal 
conununicaUon, Feb. 20, 1984). Hence he made a substantial 
contribution to the recognition of the case for natives' rights in 
Canada, and to the steps that have now been taken towards a 
just settlement of their claims. 



The Readers' Club of Canada and Peter Martin Associates 

Peter Martin, who assisted Roby at the CAAE. had an idea to 
bring Canadian books to the attention of the Canadian public 
through a regular series of readers featuring reviews, poetry, and 
so on — all kinds of Canadian writing. He talked about his idea 
with Roby whose response was typically forthright "You should 
do it," he said. 



118 



Thai was all the encouragement Peter needed. In 1959, he 
and his wife, Carole, started the Readers' Club of Canada. Roby 
backed up his verbal encouragement with practical help. He put a 
little of his money into the venture: he recruited friends and 
associates as members, and he accepted the Chairmanship of the 
Board. Peter's tribute to Roby's part in the project is genuine and 
warm. "Roby was enormously helpful," he says. "A great many 
people became involved because Roby thought it was a good 
idea." 

The Club undertook two projects: one was the publication 
of books by Canadian authors; the other was the circulation, every 
four weeks or so, of the Canadian Reader, a potpourri of reviews 
and other writings by Canadians. But the project was ahead of its 
time, and government support was very slow in coming. Roby 
arranged a chattel mortgage of some $4,000 through the Overseas 
Institute. But it was not until the mid- seventies that any grants 
were secured from the Canada Council (P. Martin, personal 
communication, April 9, 1984). 

A Martin book in which Roby took a personal interest was 
The Gibson's Landing Story (Peterson, 1962), a record of a village 
on the Sunshine Coast of British Columbia, and of the people 
who settled there. Roby spent his boyhood and teen summers at 
Gibson's, and some winters too. He knew the author. Lester R. 
Peterson, who later became the high school principal and a youth 
leader in the area. Still later in his life, Peterson was a prime 
mover in establishing the Gibson's Museum for which he was the 
first curator. Roby gave Peterson's book his whole-hearted 
backing, suggested a designer for it, and wrote the introduction. 
That introduction reflects his interest in, and his feeling for, the 
people of the place even though he was so young at the time 
(Peterson, 1962). 

It seems ironic that, although J. S. Woodsworth, the "saint 
of politics," ministered in the Methodist Church there just after 
the first World War. and people like Peterson and Roby grew up 
there, the village is known today primarily because it is the 
setting for a CBC television series. The Beachcombers. 

In the mid- seventies the two operations, the books and the 
periodical, were separated. Carole undertook the presidency of 
Peter Martin Associates, Peter the presidency of The Readers' 
Club of Canada. There were problems, however, and Saturday 
Night took over the operation of The Readers' Club in 1978, only 
to close it out about a year later. Then, in 1981. Carole was 
ofTered a position with the Canada Council, and Peter Martin 
Associates was turned over to the Book Society of Canada Ltd. 
(Martin C. & Martin, P. personal communication, March 15 & 
April 9. 1984). 



133 



119 



Thus ended one of Roby's favourite projects. 



Frontier College 

Roby was a great supporter of Frontier CcUege. The College 
places college students to work in the summer with labour crews 
on Canada's frontiers. During their ofT hours, and to some extent 
as the work is being done, the students teach the workers English 
or French, numbers, and other subjects. Roby's son, Ross, had 
served with Frontier College while a student at McMaster 
Universky, working and teaching with crews in Saskatchewan, 
Ontario, and British Columbia. Later, in the early seventies, Roby 
came on the College Board of Directors. He chaired several 
committees, visited a number of the work- sites, and gave tlie 
theme address at the 75th Armiversary Celebration Meeting. He 
received, posthumously, the Fellow of Frontier Award, an award 
that is not given to sitting members of the Board. 



The Bon Echo Foundation (BEF) 

The Bon Echo project encapsulated many of the things that 
interested Roby: adult learning, arts and letters, films, forums, 
theatre, recreation — the whole range of Canadian culture, not to 
mention the great Canadian outdoors. Roby envisioned it all being 
brought together at beautiful Bon Echo, and the vision stirred his 
being. 

Situated on a bay of Lake Msizinaw in Ontario, about 
midway between Toronto and Ottawa, the site is one of the most 
beautiful in the Canadian Shield. Fronting it across the bay is a 
magnificent rock face rising some 400 feet from the waters. Indian 
pictographs on the rock are a visible reminder that the Algonquin 
Indians had gathered here for their councils. They had named it 
Nan- si- nay or place of meetings. The modem name, Bon Echo, 
has been given it because of the awesome acoustics associated 
with the rock (Denison, n.d). 

Well-known authors Flora MacDonald Denison and her son, 
Merrill, then a boy of eight, first stayed at the property in 1901. 
They fell in love with it Rora MacDonald purchased the 
property in 1915, and the Denisons made it a gathering place for 
artists, writers, and thinkers. Horace Traubel, a companion and 
biographer of Walt Whitman, was one of these. 

In 1919, shortly before Traubel's death, a dedication ceremony 
in Whitman's memory was held at Bon Echo, on the centennial 
of the poet's birth. A year later an inscription, visible from the 



120 



Denisons' property across the lake, was carved on the face of the 
rock reading, in part: 

OLD WALT 
1819 - 1919 
Dedicated to the Democratic Ideals of 
Walt Whitman 
by 

Horace Traubel and Rora MacDonald 

Bon Echo attracted young foresters as well as writers and 
artists, and it became, from the mid- twenties, something of an 
imofficial forestry research centre (D. MacDonald, 1973). 

Later, in the mid- thirties, and subsec^uent to periodic 
discussions b'::tween Denison and provincial ofTiaals, the Provincial 
Government accepted in principle the gift of the property as a 
study centre. However, a site deemed to be more suitable for the 
government's purposes was found at Dorset, and the tentative 
agreement with respect to Bon Echo was dropped. 

Merrill Denison continued to think in terms of turning the 
property over for an educational and recreational centre. Roby had 
come to know Denison and the site and, in 1955, a group of 
interested people got together with Denison and Roby, and formed 
the Bon Echo Foundation with Roby as Chairman of the 
Executive Committee. 

It appears that Merrill Denison was a difficult man with 
whom to reach a definite agreement, perhaps because the Ontario 
government's interest in the place was still a factor in his 
thinking. Roby tried to get Denison to commit himself to deeding 
the property to the Foundation, but for some time his efforts 
were to no avail. Alfred Best, the honorary legal counsel for the 
Foundation, recalls one attempt to pin Denison down: 

Denison was up from New York witti a friend . . . 
and we met, the four of us, in the old CAAE office 
. . . We had a rather lively and humourous discussion 
for a while. But neither I nor Roby could pin 
Denison down to conunitting himself that, in fact, he 
would deed the property over to Bon Echo. 

It appears Denison finally came aroimd. On May 17. 1955. 
the Ottawa Citizen carried an article announcing the gift of the 
property to Canada by Merrill Denison, and preliminary plans for 
the Bon Echo Foundation. 

In June of that year. Denison hosted a special meeting at 
the site to commemorate the one- hundredth anniversary of the 



121 



publication of Whitman's Leaves of Grass. Members of the 
Canadian Authors' Association attended One of the speakers was 
John Fisher of the CBC (D. MacDonald, 1973). In announcing the 
event, a flyer prepared by Denizen, and printed by tlie Tweed 
News read in part: 

The property is presently held in trust by the Bon 
Echo Committee . . . pending the formation of a 
non-profit foundation whose aim will be the provision 
of facilities for a national and international conference 
centre. The costs of exploration and planning are 
being borne by John Labatt Ltd. 

This announcement, dated June 15, 1955, went on to list the 
members of the committee, headed by J. R. Kidd of the CAAR 

Roby and his brother John envisioned a conference and 
training centre comparable to the Banff School of Fine Arts in 
the West, and they threw themselves into the work of planning 
with zeal. John settled on the site with his family in the summer 
of 1957, and put an extraordinary amount of time into planning, 
organizing, and labouring around the property. Six groups plus a 
number of individuals attended that siunmer. They included a 
"National Seminar on Education for Citizenship" eirranged by the 
CAAE and the Citizenship Branch (12 days), a "Canadian Youth 
Hostels Conference" (2 weeks), the Ottawa Art Association (1 
week), and a Boy Scout group who helped with clearing. Total 
attendance was 243 plus twenty or so members of the Alpine 
Club who camped there several weekends (J. P. Kidd, 1957). 

Meanwhile, Roby was engaged in endeavouring to raise 
funds. At the end of that first summer, he wrote a lengthy letter 
to the members of the Bon Echo Committee. In part his letter 
read: 

I have also taken the representative of one American 
Foundation to Bon Echo, shown one motion picture to 
the staff members of another large American 
Foundation, and discussed the project with staff 
members of two additional foundations. The interest is 
very keen and as soon as we have made a start with 
Canadian Junds (underlining Roby's) we should be able 
to raise up to $250,000 from these American sources. 
But our start must properly be made with sums raised 
in Canada. 

However, it appears that not enough attention was given to raising 
the necessary funds in Canada; indeed, the Committee lacked the 
corporate strength necessary to the task. 



136 



122 



There was one more quite successful summer of actual 
programs; quite successful given the limitations imposed by the 
eight small, rustic buildings. John, as Acting Secretary and 
Manager, and his able wife, Joy, worked hard and were able to 
demonstrate the possibilities for the future. But in 1959, Merrill 
Denison formally granted the property to the Government of 
Ontario to be used as a Provincial Park. 

The Foundation went into limbo for some time afterwards. 
Otlier sites were investigated without success. Alfred Best smiles 
today as he recalls the number of inquiries made to his ofiice in 
the next year or two, by individuals and groups who had seen 
the name "foundation," and were requesting grants of money. 

The demise of the Bon Echo project was a bitter 
disappointment to John Kidd who had put so much work into it 
Roby, too, was disappointed; the Centre at Bon Echo was one of 
his fondest dreams. But whereas John was actively engaged in a 
few projects, Roby had many on the go, and losing one of them 
was not such a jolt for him. Also, he was already involved with 
the books for developing countries project, and thinking more and 
more about the needs of the developing areas of the world. This 
led him to the idea of an Overseas Institute which might serve in 
several ways to give impetus to, and in practical ways assist, 
Canada's contribution to international development By early 1962, 
the organization which had been the BEF had become the 
Overseas Institute of Canada (Bon Echo Fovmdation). The 
combined name was used for a while with little activity, but soon 
the BEF was dropped. Then, in April 1965, Roby wrote to Alf 
Best advising him that all the directors of the BEF had agreed to 
surrender its provincial charter, and that the board members of 
the Overseas Institute had been so informed. 

Roby had been negotiating with the Ford Foundation for an 
inaugural grant, and the Ford people agreed to the change, giving 
the OIC a funding base of $60,000. So, out of the ashes of the 
BEF came a new organization, the Overseas Institute of Canada, 
and its major function, the Overseas Book Centre 



The Overseas Book Centre and 
The Overseas Institute of Canada 

The Overseas Book Centre (OBC) started as a totally volunteer 
effort in Toronto, in the late fifties, inspired and organized by 
Roby in co-operation with Harry Campbell and Kurt Swinton. 
Campbell was then Director of the Toronto Public Library with a 
backgiound of experience vvith UNESCO. Swinton was then the 
President of Encyclopaedia Britannica in Canada. They were well 



137 



123 



aware of the desperate lack of books in the developing countries, 
and aware also that large quantities of books were becoming 
surplus in Canada each year, only to be burned or shredded. 
They agreed to do something about it (H. Campbell, personal 
communication, Jan. 19. 1984). 

In the past there had been occasions where, in a small way, 
individuals or groups had sent some books overseas. For example, 
in 1956 Helen Tucker, later President of the Voice of Women in 
Canada, had taken the lead in arranging a shipment of 250 books 
for a Peace Library in Hiroshima, Japan. Harry Campbell selected 
the books for that gift (H. Tucker, personal communication, Jan. 
20, 1984). But it was not until Roby took the initiative that 
anything was done in a formal way. He, more than anyone else, 
was responsible for founding the organization which became the 
OBC. 

Kurt Swinton provided space in the Encyclopaedia Britannica 
warehouse in Toronto where volunteers could collect and pack 
books. A committee was formed and Marion McFarland, a 
member of the United Nations Association, was hired part-time as 
Secretary- Manager. Roby found money to pay her. 

Harry Campbell arranged for some useful surplus books to 
be turned over by the Library. Publishers, schools, colleges, 
professional groups, and individuals donated other books. The 
Saguenay Shipping Company, a subsidiary of the Aluminium 
Company of Canada, undertook to transport OBC books to the 
Caribbean area free of ocean freight charges. Other shipping firms 
and several trucking companies followed suit with free or 
subsidized transport As the Overseas Institute came into existence, 
the OBC was put under its aegis. 

The Overseas Institute of Canada (OIC) was a product of 
Roby's imaginative planning, as was the OBC. The OIC arose out 
of a meeting in Toronto in April, 1961. As was indicated earlier 
in connection with the BEF, the terms of reference of the BEF 
were sufficiently broad to include international activity; and 
because the BEF*s primary objectives were not readily realizable, it 
seemed convenient to tie in the OIC. The move proved to be a 
masterful one. When the BEF failed in its plan to set up a 
conference centre, the BEF name was simply dropped and the 
OIC was on its way. 

Here it may be helpful to an appreciation of how Roby 
worked, to comment on the man. His capacity for work was 
remarkable. While very much involved in the affairs of many 
organizations, intensively so in some instances, he managed to 
write countless articles and pamphlets, and to give all kinds of 
speeches, as well as to travel quite a lot He was forthright in 
the way he went about working towards his objectives. He seemed 



138 



124 



to regard bylaws as necessary ^vils, and to avoid them as long as 
possible. He tended to be vague in approaching people to take on 
responsibilities as board or committee members, which contributed 
to some turnover of personnel from year to year. He was 
sometimes a little vague about other things. He would announce, 
for example. "The following have been invited,*" when it was not 
clear whether those listed had yet had a chance to respond. In 
fact, it might turn out that letters were just then on the way to 
some. He tended, too, tc "run" meetings sometimes, There was a 
little joke among some of his associates that he could write the 
minutes of a meeting before it was held (A. L. Hepworth & C. 
Hibberd, personal communication, Jan. 30 & Feb. 18, 1984). But 
his methods achieved impressive results and, while they drew mild 
and gooi matured criticism from some, they drew strong support 
and commendation from others. 

Roby was a tidy workman. He kept his desk clear, with 
writing materials handy so he could sit right down and go to 
work. 

As Alan Clarke points out, he was a master of networking, 
that is, he cultivated a network of individuals, far and wide, 
whom he knew or had met sometime, and if anyone spoke about 
needing a stafT position filled, or wanting to move to a new 
position, or requiring advice about something, Roby could instantly 
say, "Try so and so." 

Walter Herbert and John Robbins speak with some nostalgia 
of the group which used to meet informally for lunch at Sammy's 
place in Ottawa. The gathering included John Robbins, (until he 
left to take on the Presidency of Brandon College), Walter 
Heibenc, John Kidd, Charlie Topshee, Alan Clarke, and Roby, 
although they were not all in the group at the same time. Walter 
recalled, "John (Robbins) and I would bring to those meetings 
. . . people from the academic world and from business, and 
Roby would meet them for the first time and a year later he'd 
be using them." 

Roby's absorption and retention of information was quite 
phenomenal. Clarke observes that he could come into a meeting 
of a group which had not met for some time, sit down, and pick 
up a conversation where it had left ofT previously. 

Roby was genuinely interested in people and never hesitated 
to help them if he could, or use them if he needed. He was 
quick to spot and appreciate talent, as mentioned in the case of 
the Cree painter, Allen Sapp. Dora de Pedery-Hunt, distinguished 
sculptor- designer was a refugee from Hungary after the second 
World War. Eventually, about 1950, she visited Walter Herbert 
(Canada Foundation) in Ottawa. Roby was in the next room and 
she met him. She says of him: 



125 



He had a lovely, warm, human way of talking to 
someone and I needed encouragement Roby could see 
I had difTiculties and tried to help ... I could never 
ever get at all anywhere without the help and 
friendship of people like Roby. He really meant a 
great deal in my life . . . There is an imprint of 
Roby on me, I know that, and Tm a little better 
because of it . . . Impossible not to love the man. 

Mrs. de Pedery-Hunt designed the logo for OIC, and medallions 
which were used as awards during ICY. Later, she also designed 
the logo for Convergence, the journal of the ICAE, which Roby 
edited. She designed a chapel of shell- concrete construction which 
impressed Roby who tried hard to find a way it could be used: 
with the Company of Ycang Canadians, as an inter- faith place of 
worship, at the United Nations site in New York, as a special 
memorial to those who lost their lives as a result of international 
service abroad. 

The memorial to the people who served in the cause of 
international development was one of Roby's cherished ideas, but 
he never managed to get support for it Early in 1965, he wrote 
in Food for Thought, the CAAE's publication: 

It is to be hoped that before long some fitting 
memorial may be established for those men and 
women of the United Nations, and in other places. 
However, our first attempt to do this at UN 
headquarters has not succeeded. Since the missions on 
which some of them were engaged, that of Dag 
Hammerskjold for example, were themselves the subject 
of international dispute, it is not possible yet to have 
unanimous support for recognition of their devotion. 
However, this should be done in the most appropriate 
way possible before any of their achievements are 
forgotten. 

Mrs. de Pedery-Hunt says, "Roby never gave up. He tried several 
possibilities ... If it ever gets built it will have Roby's name on 
it somewhere" (de Pedery-Hunt, personal communication, Feb. 7. 
1984). Margaret Kidd now has a small bronze model of the 
chapel given by the artist 

Peter and Traudl Markgraf, now widely recognized for their 
fine serigraphs of the British Columbia coastal scenery, speak 
similarly, and their experience throws light on the way Roby got 
ideas and plunged into acting upon them. Traudl wrote to me (in 
a letter dated February 3, 1984) about one of Roby's visits to 



140 



126 



their home, then in Hudson Heights, Quebec, and what came of 
it Roby had taken great interest in the silk- screen prints the 
Markgrafs were then doing of works by Canadian artists. Traudl 
wrote: 

Roby became very pensive . . . and then all of a 
sudden he turned to us with beaming eyes and a 
slight smile and said, "How would you like to go to 
Jamaica?" Then he, very enthusiastically, outlined his 
plan to us. He had been saddened about the fact that 
some of the best Jamaican artists sold their paintings 
to tourists and this deprived the island of very good 
native art-work. He saw a solution of this problem in 
reproducing some of the paintings and selling the 
reproductions through commercial outlets — in this way 
creating a kind of rotating fund that could be used to 
reproduce more paintings (and original art would stay 
in Jamaica as a heritage for the Jamaicans). The idea 
sounded simple, and Roby's enthusiasm was certainly 
catching. We proved this by acting in a way that we 
normally would not (underlining hers, T. Markgraf, 1984). 

Traudl went on to describe how they were sent to Jamaica 
by the OIC and chose paintings, with the help of the Jamaican 
Institute and other experts, insisting that they had to take them 
with them right away. In one instance, they showed up late at 
night — together with the artist — in a private home, and 
convinced the owner to agree that "we had to take the painting 
off the wall right then and there." And her letter went on: 

I think we thought that we had to keep Roby's idea 
out of bureaucratic procedures and that we better 
apply Roby's way of achieving things by unorthodox 
means. And then he gave us quite a shock by 
mentioning — sort of "by the way" — that there were 
no funds available to pay for the four editions. But 
this "unimportant little detail" would be solved right 
away. He took Peter to a meeting of Alcan (the 
Aluminium Company of Canada), and in his most 
charming way convinced the members of the board 
that they wanted to back this wonderful program. To 
our surprise (and relief!) they did (T. Markgraf, 
personal communication, February 3, 1984). 

The project was not the success that Roby hoped it would 
be. Many of the reproductions were sold in Canada but only 



some of those sent to Jamaica were sold. The Markgrafs reported: 
"The plan watered away due to petty jealousies and political 
intrigues — according to one of the Jamaican artists who visited 
us later in Canada** (T. Markgraf, personal communication, 
Februar>' 3, 1984). 

There was a messianic quality about Roby — messianic in 
the best sense of the word. He believed he had a message and a 
task whose time had come, and he tackled both v/ith an 
enthusiasm tliat was infectious. 

In 1962, as he conceived the idea of the OIC, he wrote a 
paper: An International Development Program for Canada (ICidd, 
1962). In part it was prophetic. He outlined some objectives with 
respect to international development, among them: 

• An information program 

• Support and encouragement to Canadian organizations 

• Finding people for service abroad 

• Study and research 

And he added: 

We believe that an excellent beginning in all these 
tasks can be achieved in two to three years. At that 
stage the "institute" should reorganize or place its 
experience and resources within a larger organization 
or authority which will have then emerged. 

On the matter of organization, Roby proposed, "an 
immediate beginning to be made within an institution already in 
being, the Bon Echo Foundation." And he concluded: 

If there is anything in the doctrine of leadership by a 
middle power, if Canada does have a special mission 
among the nations, it is in international development 
that it will best be shown. We are proposing a 
modest but essential means by which this initiative 
may be evoked. 

It is interesting to reflect now upon the extent to which 
those things that Roby envisioned, and worked to initiate, actually 
have come to pass (A. M. Clarke, personal communication, Jan. 
31, 1984). Not all of them have come about directly through the 
work of the OIC, but we now have a widely recognized research 
centre in Canada: the International Development Research Centre 
(IDRC). We now have an effective urr^brella organization working 
with the non- governmental organizations, the Canadian Council for 
International Co--operation (CCIC). We now have strong, efTective 



142 



128 



organizations finding people for service abroad: at the 
governmental level, the Canadian International Development Agency 
(CIDA); and at the voluntary level, the Canadian University 
Service Overseas (CUSO), the Canadian Executive Service Overseas 
(CESO), and World University Service of Canada (WUSC), to 
name just three. One could think of other organizations that now 
fulfil one or more of the objectives Roby delineated. 

To continue about the OIC, Roby was able to announce, 
early in 1965, the receipt of a further grant from the Ford 
Foundation, this one for three years in the amount of $150,000. In 
the booklet. Adventure in Development, Stage Two, he wrote: 

In the face of accelerating need, it should not be 
impossible to put to good use every dollar that can 
be found, taxed, begged, or borrowed. Perhaps the 
"principles and practices" (quotation marks Roby's) 
may have to be bent a little, or stretched a little, or 
improved a little (J. R. Kidd, n.d.). 

Here, in the last sentence, is an interesting side to Roby: an 
ethical man, he nevertheless found it practical to "bend principles" 
if it would help in achieving an objective that he considered 
worthy. 

The full story of the OIC and its accomplishments cannot 
possibly be detailed in the space allowed here. Until he left for 
the project in India, in 1965. Roby was the OIC. In addition to 
many seminars and meetings, the OIC sponsored or co- sponsored 
several major conferences that did much to give impetus to 
Canada's efforts in international development These included a 
"Conference on Overseas Aid" in mid- May, 1962, for which the 
Canadian Institute for International Affairs took the lead; a 
"Conference on Mass Media in International Development" in 
November. 1962 (Bulletin, 1963); a Workshop on Canada's 
Participation in Social Development Abroad in June, 1963. in 
co-opeiation with the Canadian Welfare Council and the Canadian 
Committee of the International Conference on Social Work 
(Bulletin. 1963a); and the Second National Workshop on C:anada's 
Participation in International Development held in L'Esterel. 
Quebec in November. 1965 (Bulletin. 1966). 

The OIC published many booklets, directories, film-lists, and 
reports, including a quarterly Bulletin which 'jvas sent, not only to 
members and other interested people in Canada, but also to all 
Canadians serving in developing countries. The OIC made grants 
of money to CUSO and CSOST (Canadian Service for Overseas- 
Students and Trainees) to help finance their early effort^ as well 
as to the Committee on Friendly Relations with Overseas Students 



143 



129 



to provide for travel to a national conference (Bulletin, 1963b). A 
library and information service on international development was 
also made available, and was widely used; and Roby and other 
staff members gave many speeches to service clubs and other 
organizations. 



International Co-operation Year 

In 1963, the General Assembly of the United Nations unanimoxisly 
resolved that 1965, the mid- point in the Development Decade, 
should be set aside as International Co-operation Year (ICY). 
Canada^s Minister for External Affairs, the Honourable Paul 
Martin, announced that Canada was firmly behind the idea. The 
result was a loose- knit conference of some 150 English and 
French speaking organizations in Canada. The Governor General 
and Madiame Vanier were Patrons. The Honourable Paul Martin 
was Honorary PresidenL Roby was named President, and no fewer 
than 24 "distinguished Canadians" were Vice-Presidents, 

There were financial difficulties from the start Competing 
with constituent organizations for funds to run the ICY was 
considered unwise because they needed such support to pursue 
their own programs of international co-operation. Some individuals 
and organizations contributed funds in modest amounts, some staff 
were loaned, and a number of individuals volunteered their 
services. The Department of External Affairs gave a grant which 
permitted the hiring of a Public Relations Director. The OIC 
provided the administrative services, and the Federal Government 
provided some additional office space and used furniture. 

There can be no doubt that Canadians were made more 
aware of the problems of the developing countries through the 
work of the ICY organization in Canada, It became difficult to 
keep track of all the activities, but as nearly as the secretariat 
could tell, there were some 400 projects involving at least 200 
organizations (Bulletin, 1966a). Projects ranged from the issue of a 
special postage stamp to support for existing organizations, such as 
funds for the Coady Institute to provide fellowships for students 
from the Caribbean, They included much support for elementary 
and secondary education in the developing countries, as well as 
donations of money, books, medical supplies, clothing, laboratory 
equipment, and machinery. ICY also sponsored a competition of 
one- act plays on the theme of international co- operation. The 
OBC set, and met. an objective for the year of sending one 
million books to schools, libraries, universities, and community 
groups in the developing countries. 

A feature of the ICY program was the presentation, to 



144 



130 



many individuals and orjganizations, of specially designed medallions 
in recognition of their contribution to Canada's international 
development efforts. Similar recognition was sent to nil Canadians 
carrying on development work in the Third World at u.at time. 

If it is true to say that Roby was the OIC, it is even 
more true to say that he was ICY in Canada. He worked 
furiously, writing, counselling, delivering speeches, and meeting with 
groups to discuss plans. His articles appeared in a number of 
publications such as Canadian Library, the official journal of the 
Canadian Library Association which devoted its edition of 
November. 1965 to ICY, and Information of the United Steel 
Workers of America which came out with a special issue in April, 
1965 carrying a picture of Roby on the cover. Several other 
groups published special articles in their bulletins or journals. 

Roby was in his element in writing and speaking for ICY. 
One speech, which he gave several times with modifications to fit 
the occasion, he entitled "The Great Crusade." A selection from it 
gives some idea of the intensity with which Roby approached the 
challenge presented to him and to OIC by ICY. 

Instead of pennons, the insignia of the Great Crusade 
is penicillin and text- books. Instead of great chargers, 
the army is mounted on tractors and plows. Instead of 
skill with lance and broadsword, these emissaries are 
adept in the arts of healing, teaching, printing, 
governing, and managing. They go not to destroy an 
enemy but to win a friend. The new Crusade echoes 
with Albert Schweitzer, "Remember you don't live in 
a worid all your own" (Kidd, 1969). 

Roby went to the University of Rajasthan late in the 
summer of 1965, and Anselme Cormier succeeded him as President 
of ICY Canada* In September of the same year, the writer joined 
the staff as Executive Secretary, to work with two able and 
dedicated staff people, Mrs. Carolyn Hibberd, Office Manager, and 
Angus Archer, Program Officer. Bert Hepworth, who had been 
Program Officer through 1962- 1963 and had moved to the 
Canadian Labour Congress, continued as a member of the OBC 
committee and served as first National President of the OBC in 
1969 and 1970. 

Angus acted for the OIC in giving leadership to FAO's 
Young Worid Mobilization Appeal (YWMA) in Canada. He 
travelled the country meeting with youth groups and youth leaders. 
The YWMA was a massive program of education and involvement 
of young people in helping the developing countries. In Canada, 
scores of projects were undertaken, and a great deal of educational 



1415 



131 



material was distributed informing young people of the needs of 
the developing worid, and about Canadian programs and projects 
which could be supported. In March, 1966, Angus attended the 
YWMA Conference in Rome, Italy. In mid- summer of that year, 
the FAO reached out its long arm and plucked him away to be 
Youth Program OfUcer in Rome. 

While Roby was in India, he kept up his interest and his 
contacts, sending a barrage of suggestions and comments to the 
Executive Council of ICY and to QIC. 



Centennial International Development Program 

This program was the direct result of activity carried out by the 
Canadian Centenary Council, and Roby did much of the 
preliminary work on it An Inaugural Conference, held January 
10th of 1966, ofTicially brought ICY to a close. A new organization 
was set up, the Centennial International Development Program 
(CIDP), which had been brought about through negotiation 
between tb.e ICY Executive Council and the government- appointed 
Centennial Conmiission. Roby had played a prominent role in this 
for the voluntary sector. The discussion culminated in a contract 
whereby the Centennial Commission provided an administrative 
fund for the new organization, to enable it to carry on a program 
of public education and involvement, including support of the 
voluntary agencies active in the field of international development 
The general objective was the improvement of Canada's 
participation in international development as part of the observance 
of the Canadian Centennial (Bulletin, 1967 1967a). Again, the 
OIC supplied the space and administrative services, as was done 
for the ICY. But Roby's part in it was done. The struggles, the 
accomplishments, and the people who engaged in them are another 
story. 

Roby returned from India in the summer of 1966, to the 
position with the Ontario Institute for Studies in Education (OISE), 
and to A.^lp establish and lead the International Council for Adult 
Education (ICAE). 

He was elected Vice-President of the OIC, and served in 
that capacity for the next two years. During that time, he 
completed for the OIC, and without cost to it, a study of 
Canadian capability to assist with the world campaign to eradicate 
illiteracy (Kidd, 1967). Done in the Adult Education Department of 
OISE under Roby's direction, it summarized information from 
many countries, and was a useful assessment of the possible 
contribution Canada might make to the World Literacy Campaign 
being promoted by UNESCO. 



146 



132 



We should not only note, but underscore, that in all his 
work with OIC as Honorary Secretary, with ICY, and with the 
initial negotiations for CIDP, Roby received not one cent of 
salary. He was given the use of a car for a while, and he 
received some expenses, but he worked without pay. 

In his 1962 paper, Roby foresaw a reorganization of his 
proposed "institute" in two or three years. The process took 
somewhat longer, but the OIC did indeed reorganize. This came 
about through a series of meetings and discussions in which the 
OIC listened to what others were saying, and did some 
soul-searching. I, being one with training and experience in group 
work, endeavoured to be a catalyst I believed in L. K. Frank's 
concept of a leader as one who "evokes" response. In my student 
days I had read a statement attributed to Lao-Tsu, the ancient 
Chinese philosopher, "Of the good leader people will say when 
his work is done, we did this ourselves." So I did my best to 
promote and support the input which followed from many sources. 
A little of that input appeared self-centred, and there were one 
or two fools who rushed in with opinions without any background 
or understanding of what was going on. But the process was 
interesting and productive, and for the most part it was 
undertaken sincerely and purposefully. 

Change started with the L'Esterel Conference, which was a 
good one, involving a broad section of the private sector and 
some participation from the public sector, government The result 
was a resolution, unanimously approved, inviting the OIC to 
"immediately study ways in which it would be willing to 
transform its terms of reference and structure to become an 
agency truly representative of French and English speaking, 
participating, private organizations" (Bulletin, 1966b). This mandate 
involved the OIC in much self-study and consultation with other 
organizations over the next two and one- half years. It was evident 
that, while some organizations were prepared to accept the OIC as 
an umbrella group, others felt that what was needed was a 
genuine council set up by the organizations themselves, and truly 
representative of them. Also, it was clear that the OIC could not 
funcdon in such a way and, at the same time, operate a practical 
program of overseas aid (the OBC) alongside its constituent 
organizations. 

Finally, a conference of individuals and organizations was 
held in the spring of 1968, in conjunction with the 1967 armual 
meeting of the OIC. That conference resulted in a complete 
reorganization of the OIC to become two separate organizations: a 
council, and a practical program of overseas aid, the OBC. The 
name, Canadian Council for International Development (CCID), 
had been chosen for the Council, and incorporation proceedings 



147 



133 



started. But just at that time, the External Aid Office announced 
a change in its name to Canadian International Development 
Agency (CIDA). It was too similar a name so we quickly 
consulted and changed the CCID to Canadian Council for 
International Co-operation (CCIC). Roby's statement, made in 1962, 
had indeed proved prophetic: the Institute had reorganized. 

With the metamorphosis complete, I resi{?ned as Executive 
Director to become National Director of the OBC. It, too, was 
incorporated as quickly as possible. 

There were problems with finances for a while, particularly 
for the CCIC a few years later. But both organizaUons have gone 
on to play very important roles in Canada's efforts to assist the 
developing countries. Both have received whole-hearted support 
from CIDA. 

Many people have played a part in the success of these 
institutions. At least three of those Roby recruited twenty or more 
years ago are still active as this is written. They are: 



Len C. Curtis (now deceased), former Vancouver School 
Principal who was the volunteer director in Vancouver 
1964- '83, and National President 1974- '75, wrote to me in a 
letter: "The OBC became a big factor in my life for the 
next twenty years. I finally retired from the job (as 
Director) last June. I am still working as a volunteer" 
(Curtis, personal communication, February 3, 1984). 
Tom Gray, who represented the YMCA at the first meeting 
in Vancouver when the book- sending program was proposed 
and joined Len right away, was co-opted as Treasurer of 
the B. C. Branch, a position he still holds while working as 
a volunteer at the Centre. 

Alfred Best, who was one of the first volunteers in Toronto 
became Honorary Legal Counsel and served as National 
President from 1970 to 1974, still serves on the Toronto 
committee. 



The OBC program has expanded steadily to include the 
provision of all kinds of educational aids, from paper to 
mechanical equipment as well as books. Robert Dyck became 
National Director late in 1977 when I retired. In 1983, in keeping 
with the ever- expanding nature of its program, the name of the 
OBC was changed to Canadian Organization for Development 
through Education (CODE). 

It was well that this change of name came afler Roby*s 
death. He would have been a little sorry to see the name go, as 
he was when the OIC name was dropped, but he knew, as he 
had written in 1962, that in time the "institute" should reorganize. 



134 



Roby» the Person 

Roby was a very likeable person. He had a great respect for 
women and this, along with his personal charm and consideration 
for others, was not lost on them. Carolyn Hibberd, who worked 
with him through the period of his leadership of OIC and ICY, 
said of him, "He could chann birds right out of the trees . . . 
He was a very special person and he changed my life. Tm sure 
he changed a lot of people's lives" (C. Hibberd, personal 
communication, Feb. 18, 1984). Dora de Pedery-Hunt said. "So 
many things happened in my life when Roby showed me the 
way. Impossible not to love the man" (personal communication, 
Feb. 7, 1984). And a lifelong friend, who grew up with him in 
Gibson's, said simply, "You know, it's possible for a woman to 
love a man without being in love with him, and that's how I felt 
about Roby." 

Walter Herbert once described him, in a perceptive essay, as 
leading a double life as far as outward appearances went, one as 
Dr. Kidd and the other as Roby. When on parade addressing a 
conference, leading a delegation, negotiating with a foimdation, 
pleading with a cabinet minister, or teaching a university class, he 
was essentially a man of dignity and persuasiveness. Herbert then 
went on: 

The Roby role is hard to reconcile with the official 
and professional man. Restless, persistently curious, 
surprisingly boyish, warmly sociable, strongly gregarious, 
slow to anger, quick to forgive but not to forget, 
proud, optimistic, cheerful. . . Roby is an affable, 
kaleidoscopic fellow who never ceases surprising the 
people who know him best; but the main thing about 
him is his warm, unvarnished, emphatic interest in the 
welfare of every person he meets (Herbert* 1959). 

That was written a number of years ago but it remained true of 
Roby all his life. 

To fully know and understand Roby, one needed to know 
his family. His wife, Margaret, and he were a team; and she has 
been all that Roby needed as a life-partner: an able homemaker, 
a gracious hostess, and a devoted wife and mother. Together, 
Roby and Margaret raised five children each of whom is now 
coritributing to the well-being of the community, and all in varied 
aud interesting ways. 

The essence of Roby's character is difficult to capture. His 
steadfast drive throughout his life to help make the world a 
better place stands out But what endeared him to his friends was 



135 



his loyalty and his sense of humour. He saw humour in much 
that went on around him. He liked to chat with taxi drivers, and 
they often featured in some of his stories. He told one yam 
about a taxi driver in New York. He had asked this fellow how 
business was. and the driver replied that it wasn't too bad but 
you had to work hard. "You know." he said, ""if you don't have 
universitv degree, , vou've got to use your brains" (W. B, 
HeiberL 6l J. L Kobblliy. pei^uual communication. Feb. 6. 1984). 

To those who were fortunate enough to know him. Roby 
Kidd was a great man. They did not always agree with him. but 
they recognized his admirable qualities; they enjoyed his human 
ones — his impulsiveness, his boyish sense of humour, his great 
capacity for friendship — and they loved him. 



References 

Bulletin of the Overseas Institute of Canada 
(1963). Bulletin. L 1. 2. 
(1963a). Bulletin. L 3. 2. 
(1963b). Bulletin. L 2. 3. 

(1966) . Bulletin. 2 1. 4. 
(1966a). Bulletin. Z 1. 1. 
{1966b). Bulletin. Z 1. 4. 

(1967) . Bulletin. ± 3. 3. 
(1967a). Bulletin, i, 4. 2, 

Denison. M. The Bon Echo gift. Informal memorandum. Bon 

Echo Committee. n.d. 
Hanna. A. (1968). The Canadian Centenary Council 1959-1967. 
Herbert, W. B. (1959). Food for thought. Toronto: Canadian 

Association for Adult Education. 
Kidd. J. P. 'Nevi? roots in Canadian soil. Ottawa: Canadian 

Citizenship Council. n.d. 
(1957). Report of operations of Bon Echo during summer 

1957. Mimeographed report 
Kidd. J. R. (1962). An international development program for 

Canada. Mimeographed report 
(1967). Functional literacy and international development. 

(Study of Canadian capability to assist the World Campaign 

to eradicate illiteracy). Toronto: Ontario Institute for Studies 

in Education. 

Adventure in development stage two. Overseas Institute of 

Canada. n.d. (distributed in 1965 by J. R. Kidd). 

(1969). Education for perspective. Toronto: Peter Martin 

Associates Limited. 

MacDonald. D. (1973). Mugwump Canadian. Montreal: Content 



136 



Publishing. 

Peterson, L. R. (1962) The Gibson's Landing story Toronto: Peter 
Martin Associates. 



151 



ERIC 



CHAPTER 9 
OISE: A PROVINCIAL COLLEGE 
WITH A WINDOW ON THE WORLD 
Reg Herman 

Like any institution of higher education, OISE enjoyed attracting 
noted foreign visitors and international attention, and both are 
referred to in its first Annual Report (1965-66) by R. W. B. 
Jackson, the Director, and Bora Laskin, Chairman of the Board of 
Governors. The two men were old friends of Roby Kidd, and 
they consistently supported his efforts to advance international 
exchange in education, and in those fields that Roby saw as 
interrelated: health, environment, peace, labour, recreation, media, 
and so on. However, for many others in OISE, even those who 
enjoyed basking in the international recognition he brought the 
Insutute, Roby was rather too much of a good thing. And he 
never could get the hang of all the bureaucratic rules. 

Virginia Woolf wrote of James Joyce that he was a man so 
desperate for fresh air that he would smash the windows instead 
of merely opening them. Roby would be more likely to call the 
Ford Foundation, a D3an of Architecture, the Director of the 
International Labour Office, and the Minister of Trade and 
Commerce and announce, "Ladies and Gentlemen, that window is 
too small," and when most of the wall was gone, he'd stand 
there with his hands on his hips and say, "That seems very good 
to me. Now, I wonder if we could improve the view by obtaining 
the help of one or two people in the field such as Rene Maheu 
of UNESCO, Julius Nyeiere of Tanzania, and Don McNeil at 
Frobisher Bay." 

In the second edition of How Adults Learn, Roby concludes 
that the concept of leadership is still ill-defined. His own qualities 
of leadership may help us to improve the definition. In one 
dimension, his first priority was steadfast loyalty in his personal 
relationships including those with his students, his staff, and 
colleagues in the field. In another dimension, his judgement was 
almost infallible: in any situation, he always saw the full range of 



152 



138 



alternatives, selected the ideas whose time had come (ideas he 
may have been circling for twenty years), brought together from 
among his friends the very best people in the country, and 
delegated to them the responsibility to get the job done. But what 
made Roby Kidd a different leader was a third dimension in 
which these qualities — especially his unique commitment to 
personal relationships — were joined to a world view. This chapter 
can only deal witli the major issues of Roby's role in OISE, but 
the picture would be distorted if we did not document, very 
briefly and inadequately, at least two aspects of his valuing and 
support of individuals. 

In 1968, Roby hired Virginia Grinin, his first American 
appointment, recommended by Allen Tough. She was a former 
Co- operative Extension agent and an expert in program plarming 
and evaluation; and she immediately began teaching this important, 
key subject, which from the beginning was in high demand by 
students. A problem she faced was a recurrent one: GrifTm had 
not yet completed her doctoral thesis; but in the spring of 1969. 
Roby assigned her to teach in the 1969 summer program, when 
the student body of fifty became many hundreds, placing 
enormous strain on the department's teaching resources. I 
discovered GrifUn's dilemma, her urgent need to have that 
summer free to complete her thesis, quite by chance. Now the 
problem changed character: how to find Roby Kidd. who had left 
the countrj' for the far parts of the world in the same way the 
rest of us would take a streetcar. I would discover he was back, 
and where he had been, when I returned to my desk in the 
morning and found a package of Turkish cigarettes or Cuban 
cigars. So I waited until a pack of Figaros appeared on my desk, 
and came into the Department the following Sunday, when I knew 
I would find Roby attacking his antediluvian portable with two 
fingers, his pocket radio defeating Brahms, and the door open, 
always. The demands of the summer program were so great, that 
I was not sure of his response to GrifTin*s need to have the 
summer free, and it's for that reason the absolute lack of 
hesitation has remained so vividly in my memory: "Of course, I 
should have thought of that We'll find someone else to teach the 
course." 

Later that year, Leonard Shorey. a doctoral student, was 
desperate to finish his thesis before returning to Jamaica. The 
date of the oral exam was set, but the thesis had to be typed 
and copied beforehand for all members of the thesis committee. 
Roby virtually turned the Department over to the task, providing 
secretarial support, lining up all the tables in the department as a 
production line, and joining personally in the physical work of 
collating the sheets as they rolled off the secretaries* desks. Of 



153 



139 



course, he had provided similar support the year before for the 
completion of Josephine Flaherty's thesis, but she was a staff 
member. 

In later years, I returned to Roby with more difficult staff 
problems, but always with the certainty of his immediate response 
and genius in finding a way to protect people. 

The other aspect of the portrait is more complex: during 
his years at OISE, Roby Kidd acted as a one-man employment 
agency for the world of adult education. One of his purposes was 
simply to enlarge the perspective and experience of Canadians in 
adult education abroad through a continuous stream of short-term 
referrals and appointments. In 1967-68, for example, Roby 
arranged for Allen Tough to teach a course in comparative studies 
at the University of Rajasthan in India, and a lecture tour by 
Alan Thomas, then Director of the Canadian Association for Adult 
Education (CAAE), in five countries of East Africa. TTiese 
placement activities continued after he was no longer chairperson. 
For example, he named Fred Rainsberry, a media expert in 
OISE's Curriculum Department, to evaluate the multi- media 
literacy program in Pakistan. (Roby had been Chairman of the 
International Literacy Council, awarding prizes to the best literacy 
programs in the world). Another appointment was that of John 
Whitehouse, a laboiu: educator, the first Canadian to head the 
International Labour Office (ILO) in Geneva. However, interwoven 
through all these activities was a more significant role Roby 
played, interceding to find permanent placements for colleagues. By 
accident, I was privy to Roby's telephone call to Alex Charters 
when Boston University closed A. A. (Sandy) Uvcright's Centre 
for Liberal Studies. Charters, an adult educator of the same 
stamp, offered an appropriate teaching position to Liveright at 
Syracuse University. Of course, there is no record of the extent of 
Roby's interventions of this kind, but they were knovm by his 
colleagues. In 1969, Paul Miller, former US Secretary of Education 
and then Vice-president of Ohio State University (two jobs Roby 
did not broker), accepted Roby's invitation to keynote the National 
Institute for Canadian University Extension that I was again 
co-ordinating at OISE. (Miller had also accepted the year before, 
but had been forced to cancel because of the need to attend a 
Senate budget committee). I picked Miller up at the airport and 
broached the subject of his expenses, including air fare. Miller's 
reply was, "I would have walked here for Roby Kidd." 



OISE*s Mandate 

In a recent interview, George Flower (1983) refers to an early 



154 



140 



joke about OlSE's origin, expressing confusion about whether it 
emerged out of Bob Jackson by Bill Davis or was the Davis 
college out of Jackson. OlSE's mandate, however, was clear: it 
was to serve as a centre for the improvement of the educational 
systems of Ontario through programs of Graduate Studies, 
Research and Development, and Field Service. To achieve these 
ends, OISE was established as a provincial college under 
independent charter m 1965, but affiliated f^r degree granting 
purposes to the University of Toronto (U of T), and designated as 
that institution's Graduate Department of Educational Theory. This 
meant, in turn, that OISE's Graduate Studies programs fell under 
the jurisdiction of the U of Ts School of Graduate Studies. 
Collision with this body was not long in coming. 

R. W. B. (Bob) Jackson, the founding Director, W. G. 
Fleming, Assistant Director, and George Flower, Co-ordinator of 
Graduate Studies of OISE and Chairman of the U of Ts 
Department of Educational Theory, had been personally exposed to 
the ideas and influence of Roby Kidd, and in planning the 
organization of OISE. and in searching for key staff in 1964-65, 
they made the decisions both to include a Department of Adult 
Education and to persuade Roby Kidd to come as its founding 
chairperson. The first hurdle of both decisions was the incredulity 
of Ernest Serlick, then U of Ts Dean of Graduate Studies, that 
adult education could be considered a field of study. With this 
view,^ it was hardly surprising that he was not impressed with 
Roby's writings and major posts nationally and internationally; in 
the end, what made Roby academically acceptable to Serlick was 
that he had been Secretary- Treasurer of the Humanities Research 
Council and Social Science Research Council from 1961 to 1965, 
when he left for the year's consultancy to the Jniversity of 
Rajasthan (Rower, personal communication, 1983). 

The second hurdle was Roby himself, who replied from 
India to the question of his availability to head OlSE's 
Department of Adult Education: "Get Alan Thomas," (Kidd, 1981). 
The reason for Roby*s reluctance appears to have been a concern 
about maintaining his international commitments. Pressed further, 
he accepted on two conditions: the first was that he must be able 
to continue his international activiLies, and the second was that he 
would hold the position for only one term of four years. To the 
first, he received somewhat reluctant, tacit approval; in the case of 
the second, he extended the term one year, probably to ensure 
the availability of Alan Thomas as his successor, a point to which 
we shall return. 

In this brief chapter, while we touch on some of the 
research and development projects he directed, the main focus will 
be to describe Roby*s most important and lasting contributions at 



141 



OISE: building the largest and most widespread international 
department of adult education in the world; establishing Certificate 
programs for practitioners ineligible for entry to the Graduate 
Studies programs; initiating the first courses and a leld of 
Comparative Studies in Adult Education; founding the inteniational 
journal. Convergence, initiating Canadian Studies and setting up an 
Office for International Studies, two spearheads that typified Roby's 
breadth of vision. 



The Department of Adult Education 

As nearly as one can make out from the great range of Roby*s 
objectives in setting up the Department, three emphases appear 
paramount While they do not contain the full scope of his 
activities and influence, they serve to explain his principal 
administrative decisions as founding chairperson. These are: 
diversity, field service, and international exchange. That they were 
interrelated is obvious; in Roby perhaps they were inseparable, 
much as one could not separate his world view from his valuing 
of the individual. Still, he named these goals himself, so they 
provide at least a starting point 

Diversity 

Jackson's vision was remarkably clear; he warned Roby, as well as 
OISE's other founding administrators, that there was a pressing 
need for rapid growth, the largess of the mid-sixties^ would not 
last very long. However, size clearly was not Roby's aim but 
diversity of staff and therefore of programs. We gain an 
interesting insight from the account of James Draper (1983), who 
had worked with Roby in India, v/hen he applied to join the 
Department in early 1967. Roby informed Draper that he had not 
planned lo include him in the Department because his expertise 
was too similar to Roby's own, that his priority was diversity. 
However, the higher priority prevailed, as always. (Allen Tough 
had been appointed in July, 1966, two months before Roby's own 
arrival), so Draper was Roby'3 first appointment to the staff, and 
inunediately began to organize key courses on literacy and 
community development, a CtrtiTicatc Program (see Field Service), 
and national surveys of degree and non- degree research in adult 
education. 

My appointment as a Project Director in July of 1967, 
certainly represented a diversion because I came from a business 
background. When he made the appointment. Roby told me that 
he wanted fresh ideas. My responsibilities were: to build a 
circulation and serve as managing editor of a new international 



I5d 



142 



journal of adult education - Convergence; to plan a National 
Insutute of Management for University Extension Directors in 
Canada; to assist in the evaluaUon of the AddicUon Research 
houndauon commissioned by the provincial Ministry of Health; to 
assist m developing a study of professional educaUon in Canada 
beginning with the University of Toronto; and to administer the 
budget of the department I am not sure about the fresh ideas 
but I admit to finding these activities sufficiently diverting, 
to^ox S department's second annual report (July 1967-June 
1968). Roby wrote: No department can do everything, but our 
department simply cannot afford the luxury of concentraUon on a 
few targets. At least not until other institutions are in the field " 
His appointments and methods reflect this determinaUon; tlie 
tollowing attempts a very brief summary. 

Aspects of the focus of James Draper and Virginia Grimn 
have been reterred to; Josephine Flaherty conducted her thesis 
research on tesUng the future academic success of mature students; 
iNorman High became heavily involved in a consulUng capacity for 
the professional development of teachers in the new Colleges of 
Applied Arts and Technology (CAATs); Robert Torrance focused 
on the impact of electronic media on adult educaUon; Marion 
Royce mvesugated programs for the educaUon of women in both 
the US and Canada, and produced unique documentation for both 
countnes: Joyce Tyrrell was involved in social animation for 
educauonal mtervention in the development of Toronto's waterfront- 
Ernest Stabler, briefly in the department, began the spadework for 
^ToS"*'^^ °f international studies; and Myma Knechtel. unique in 
OlbJi. served as the departmental editor, evidence of Roby's 
emphasis on the importance of producing publications not for 
academic reputation but for the field. Of course. Allen Tough 
who preceded Roby in the department, has become world famous 
for his research on self- directed learning. 

Three staff members require special note because they 
represent Roby's stated intention to bring Canadians back to 
Canada. These are: Diana Ironside, a librarian and information 
retrieval speaalist who designed the first computerized directory of 
adult educauon programs anywhere, for Metro Toronto; Donald 
Bnindage. an expert on family life education; and Harold Houston 
whose thesis research was on educational participation of 
blue- collar workers (never completed because of his death in a 
car acadent). 

In addition, as early as 1967-68. Roby extended the 
departments outreach still further by drawing in experts from 
other OISE departments through cross appointments: Robert Laxer 
introduced courses for the training of counsellors in the CAATs 
which grew into a distinct sub-program called "Counselling and 



143 



Adult Education;" David Abbey co-ducted research on museums 
and taujght conamunications theory; ^ ormer Ellis conducted unique 
longitudinal research on women engineers and taught research 
methods; and from the Umversit>* of Toionto, Roby made Serlick 
(i.e. U of Ts School of Graduate Studies) happy by legitimizing 
the Department of Adult Education through early 
cross- appointment of two professors of Higher Education. Edward 
Sheffield's and Robin Harris' presence, and then poiitically 
manoeuvred withdrawal, ultimately resulted in the formation of a 
Department of Higher Education at OISR Roby*s last 
cross- appointment was John Farina, of the U of T School of 
Social Work, whose research on leisure contributed to a higher 
profile for Roby's Committee of Research on Recreation and 
Leisure. This committee, which served in an advisory capacity to 
the Youth and Recreation Branch of the Ontario E>epartment of 
Education, led, in turn, to the formation of an Association for 
Research and Leisure in Ontario. 

Even this range of diversity was not enough to meet Roby*s 
perceptions of the field, so he exploited OISE's generously funded 
summer program, which drew about 1200 teachers from the 
Ontario school systems, to bring in such international figures as 
UNESCO's Ernest Cassirer, an expert on media, and John Lowe 
of the University of Edinburgh and OECD, He also created two 
new categories: Associates of the Department and the W. L. 
Grant Fellowship, The Associates device introduced to the 
Department teaching resources such as Alan Thomas (as early as 
the first year); Kenneth Beck of the Ministry of Correctional 
Services; Lawrence Beech, theological continuing education; Harvey 
Silver, Head of Manpower Coxmsellors in Ontario; Budd Hall, then 
newly home from Tanzania, and so on. 

The W. L. Grant Fellowship was invented by Roby as a 
way of bringing a continuous stream of important adult educators 
v/ho were on study leave. They were asked for short periods of 
two months to a year, primarily to pursue their own studies, but 
with invitations to participate fully in the Department The 
planning of the Fellowship and a modest brochure were funded 
by a $5,000 grant by the J, S, McLean Foundation; the Fellows 
were, and still are, provided with office space and limited 
secretarial services. In addition to extending ttie Department's 
resources, the Fellowship was intended to strengthen Departmental 
relations with educators in the field in Canada, Accordingly, W. 
L. Grant Fellows included Cliff Mcintosh, fo^mder and Director of 
a residential centre (Quetico) for continuing education in 
Northwestern Ontario; John McLeish, Dean of Education at 
Brandon University; James Church, President of Conestoga College; 
Samuel Smith, President of the University of Lethbridge; Gordon 



144 



Selman, Director of Continuing Education, UBC; and so on. Roby 
also intended the Fellowship to promote international exchange, a 
point we will return to in that section. For the great range of 
studies, projects, and other forms of intervention produced by this 
creative mix of energies, the reader must be referred to the 
Department's Annual Reports, 1966-71. They are eminently readable 
— they were all written by Roby. 

Field Service 

In the first annual report of the Department, (July 1966 - June 
1967) Roby defined the term development: 

... to describe activities carried out to advance the 
whole field of adult education, including initiating 
activities that may precede studies or research by the 
Department A characteristic of the field at this stage 
is that mucii preliminary work must still be done in 
conceptualizing, collecting of data, securing interest and 
support, demonstrating, even before systematic research 
or needed courses can be planned 

The specific stress on development vis-a-vis research in that 
statement was the consequence of a confrontation between Roby 
and Allen Tough at a faculty meeting early in the fall of 1967. 
Tough argued that the primary focus and efforts of the 
Department should be on research, ihat lack of basic research was 
the most critical problem in the field of adult education. 
Perturbed, Roby shot out, "Surely you can't mean that," which 
brought the curt reply, "Yes, I do." A trip lo India arranged by 
Roby did nothing to alter Tough's view, but the disagreement did 
not prevent Tough from developing an enduring interest in 
futurism as a consequence of being exposed to the Futurist 
Society's newsletters circulated by Roby in the Department, nor 
did it prevent Roby from using every opportunity to draw 
international attention to the importance of Tough's research on 
self- directed learning. What we are describing is a difference 
about emphasis only; in the Department's second Annual Report 
(July 1967- June 1958), Roby wrote: "The ratio of research 
investment in the total budget, now about 30 percent, is rising. 
We predict an increased volume of research in subsequent years 
and more of it will be rigorous, sustained, and concentrated." Still, 
there was a consistent commitment to direct intervention in the 
field that valued individual adult educators over institutional 
constraints; research that was "action oriented" (second Annual 
Report, p. 14): and above all, a term that he disliked but was 
forced to use in his last years at OISE, relevance. For Roby, the 



145 



individual, professional responsibility, and intervention in the field 
at every level, were the same thing. The observations of Dr. 
Lynn Davie, present Chairperson and an administrator in OlSFs 
Graduate Studies from 1976 to 1983, help to explain the 
relationships (1983). 

If there was a conflict about a student with Graduate 
Studies it was dearly the student who was always in 
the right and the rules, or whatever else, were not 
... he was more than averagely successful at 
dealing with the Institution around such student issues 
... he wrote well, and he had a really good mind, 
so when he would write in support of someone it 
would be a really strong case presented. One element, 
however, that I think he had a lot of influence on — 
he was not the only person looking at this but it was 
a major issue — and that was Roby's insistence on 
. . • looking at the situation from the perspective of 
the learner as opposed to the perspective of education. 
His view of credentialling was that we essentially 
ought to give it to any good person . . . "You know, 
well the world needs people with doctorates, let's 
make sure they get them and here's the place to get 
them ..." He worked with them to get good quality 
work but his view both inside the Institute and in his 
public speaking was on what the world needed and on 
what the important issues were . . . Roby's work was 
really in direct opposition to [elitism]. It was simply 
that he continued to bring hope to deserving people 
with bright ideas in a lot of places around the world 
and Canada, to encourage them to come and study . . 
. Roby said that "if they had the right ideas we 
should take them in. They were good people despite 
a C* minus in their undergratuate term. We know 
undergraduate education is not very good and not 
something we should look at . . . "clearly, Roby 
seemed to be having an impact on the Canadian 
Government's view of adult education ... I think the 
impact [of his ideas] has clearly got to be seen . . . 
[in terms of] a unique individual who was hitting his 
major stride right at a time when the world was 
receptive . . .(personal communication, 1983). 

The Certificate Program 

Technically, the Certificate Program was, and is, part of the 
Department's instructional program, but its audacious concept was 



EKLC 



146 



really field service — to provide an opportunity for professional 
development to practitioners "who lacked either the time or the 
prerequisites needed for graduate studies," (First Annual Report, 
1967). In an interview with George Flower in 1984, in which I 
asked for his opinion of Roby's outstanding achievements in OISE, 
he named the Certificate Program, Canadian Studies, and the 
OfTice of International Studies. This recognition of the importance 
of the Certificate Program is not surprising. The idea was Roby*s, 
implementation was ably manoeuvred by James Draper, but it was 
Flower, Co- ordinator of Graduate Studies and Roby's long- time 
friend, who ran interference with the U of Ts School of 
Graduate Studies (SGS) for the unheard-of idea of a Certificate 
door into study. Considering that tlie Department of Adult 
Education was itself suspect at SGS, Flower's successful defence of 
the Certificate Program was a signal achievement 

Over the years, the Certificate Program expanded in several 
directions, to include a special focus on Counselling and Adult 
Education, and entry into a subsequent subprogram for 
organizational and staff training development (Developing Human 
Resources). Briefly, in the early years of the province's Colleges 
of Applied Arts and Technology (CAATs), Roby organized a 
specialized Certificate Program to meet the needs of new teachers 
in the CAATs; it was discontinued when the CAATs developed 
their own training programs. The Certificate Programs are no 
longer a source of contention; Certificate students are even 
registered on the U of T computer that schedules courses — one 
of the few acxndents of equity in higher education. 

The Certificate Program has never been large — fewer than 
300 graduates since its inception. But especially in the early years, 
it was the only door into the Department's program for many 
students from the developing nations: and again in the 
mid- seventies, provided admission for refugees from Chile, for 
whom it was impossible to retrieve their academic records. 
However, the great majority of students have been native bom, 
and as Roby noted in the Third Annual Report, their 
accomplishments, "assessed in ways identical with the evaluation of 
other students, put them in the top rank in academic 
performance." Thorough evaluations of the program were conducted 
in 1968 and 1969, and these are available from the Department 

Canadian Studies 

That it was Roby Kidd who initiated Canadian Studies in OISE is 
not surprising; what is little known is the resistance he had to 
overcome to do so. 

From the Department's first year, Roby's emphasis on 
development clearly included a determination to address the 



147 



overwhelming need for publications in Uie field of adult education. 
Each Annual Report includes lists of both staff and Departmental 
publications: papers, reports, monographs, and books. As we 
mentioned earlier. Adult Education was the only Department in 
OISE to hire its own staff editor. In 1969, through staff 
contributions of funds — chiefly those of Diana Ironside and 
Norman High — Roby set up an outside account which I 
administered specifically for the establishment of a program to 
publish departmental monographs. The continuous stream of these 
can be found in the Annual Reports. 

If you lost Roby Kidd in a strat^j'^ city, the place to look 
would be the local museum or library. He loved to prowl in 
libraries, including OISE's. so it isn't surprising that he learned 
that the library had a problem of unspent purchase funds in the 
spring of 1967. The marriage of this embarrassment to the 
endemic financial difficulties of the CAAE was the sort of thing 
Roby would arrange with a few unrecorded conversations. 
However, George Flower recalls delivering the cheque for $10,000 
to Alan Thomas, then Director of the CAAE, on a Friday 
afternoon, because of Thomas' gratitude at being able to rush the 
cheque to the bank before the weekend. Roby refers briefly to 
the purchase in the Second Annual Report, merely as a first 
phase, though "a cmcial one/ in building a significant research 
library for adult education. Typically, though, he reports this not 
under Research or Graduate Studies, but in the section on 
Development 

In the Department's third year, 1968-69, Roby met with 
Jackson, OISE's Director, and on two occasions with William 
Davis, then Minister of Education, to persuade them to set up a 
special, "animating" project for Canadian Studies at OISE. A grant 
of $25,000 with no time limit, but a request for three annual 
reports, was made from a Department of Education account "for 
interprovincial projects." The concept, the breadth, and the 
originality of the subprojects and strategies were all pure Roby 
Kidd; and typify his preferred method of educational and social 
intervention, so that "OISE was not to administer the projects, but 
to act as a stimulus and animateur, to attempt to arrange for 
others to carry out the projects after the planning and 
development stages." The projects were also intended to "explore" 
new fields and possibilities not already being covered by other 
agencies, including the proposed Canada Studies Foundation (Kidd, 
1976). 

In 1976, there was still a balance of $5,000 in the project 
and Roby was compelled to write a "Progress Report" to prevent 
OISE from re- directing the funds. Briefly, he describes 11 projects, 
one of which failed (a plan for interprovincial exchange of the 



162 



148 



mobile museums they had built for Centennial Year), and two of 
which were blocked at that time (a distribution plan for Canadian 
documentary films and development of Canadian materials for 
senior citizens' study groups). If the reader will tolerate a 
presumption, the following synopses are listed from least to 
greatest impact, while admitting to fuzzy boundaries: 

Presentation on French Canada in Ontario, 

Conceived as a one- week mini- festival at OISE in 1971, with 
films, music, lectures, and library, the presentation travelled to the 
Shaw and Shakespearian summer festivals and several schools, but 
became too expensive. Materials were turned over to the Ministry 
of Education and the French language organization in Toronto, Le 
Galerie. 

Distributing Canadian Materials to School Boards in the North 
In 1973, Roby helped Robert Rist of the Mirustry of Education to 
fill a mobile van with 2,500 items (print, films, records, displays). 
Roby loved this kind of innovative approach, and indeed teachers' 
reports in school districts throughout the province were enthusiastic, 
but it was never repeated through the use of a mobile va.*. 

Colleges and Faculties of Education 

Roby collaborated twice with the Canada Studies Foundation on 
Seminars on Canadian Studies for Colleges and Faculties of 
Education. Finally, in 1984, the Ministry of Education has set up 
a fund to encourage development of materials in Canadian Studies. 
Of course, in the educational system, this might be considered 
lightning action. 

Professors of Adult Education 

Two national meetings of professors of adult education resulted 
initially only in a bibliography of theses in Adult Education. 
However, a imiqiie collaboration of several universities presented a 
proposal in 1982 to the Secretary of State for a project on the 
history of adult education in Canada, and may yet be funded. 

The Art of Canadian Indians 

The initiative of this project stimulated a major exhibition by the 
Royal Ontario Museum in 1972, and other exposures, but Indian 
art has never enjoyed the promotion of Innuit work. Still, in 1969, 
Roby's effort was a cry in the educational wilderness. Interestingly, 
on a research team studying education in Federal prisons in the 
late seventies, it was Roby who drew attention to the fact that 
native- speaking and Francophone prisoners outside Quebec had no 
provision for educational resources — or anything else — in their 



149 



own language. 
Education of Women 

The project supported the research of Marion Royce, former head 
of the Women's Bureau, Department of Labour, to catalogue 
Continuing Education Programs for Women in Canada, an 
important document in 1970, published by the Department of Adult 
Education as a monograph. While it would be nonsense to draw a 
straight line between Royce's work and the organization of the 
Canadian Congress for Learning Opportunities for Women 
(CCLOW), Royce's presence and publications, sponsored by Roby. 
fostered an environment in ihe Department of Adult Education 
that encouraged students and sta^T to found and build this 
organization to a national level. 

Canadian Studies in the University 

Roby used the project to organize the first national conference of 
Canadian universities about Canada Studies. A direct result of this 
meeting was the founding by Professor McMullen and others of a 
new Learned Society for Canadian Studies, which publishes and 
acts as a major stimulus for Canadian Studies through the 
universities. 

Canadian Studies in Community Colleges 

The project sponsored the first and two additional annual meetings 
on Canadian Studies for college teachers and presidents, and 
commissioned two national studies, most notably the research and 
report of James R Page, Canadian Studies in Community Colleges 
in 1974. As Roby reports, "The result of six years work is that 
there is now a national ofTice of Canadian Studies as part of the 
headquarters of the Association of Canadian Community Colleges, 
with Professor Page as Executive Director . . . "(Kidd, 1976). In 
ACCC publications, OISE is specifically credited for its initiating 
role (Kidd, 1976). 

The Unions 

Roby described: 

It took patient effort from 1970 to 1974 to persuade 
the educational staff members of Canadian unions to 
plan together nationally for education, and to consider 
the p-^^ce of Canadian Studies in workers' education. A 
national meeting was held in 1974, at OISE, and this 
paved the way for a large National Conference, 
sponsored by the Department of Labour . . . and 
subsequently the formation of a national Continuing 
Committee on Labour Education. The work of 



164 



150 



animal eur assumed by the Project has now been 
placed with the latter committee, but participation of 
OISE is invited (Kidd, 1976). 

In the same 1976 report, Roby notes that OISE's role was publicly 
credited by the Federal Minister of Labour and union leaders and 
that future project initiatives would be weJccmed. Four years later, 
the Department of Aduli Education was asked to undertake a 
major national study of labour education, which was conducted by 
David Abbey and Alan Thomas. 

To the time of this report, and including the three rather 
noble concepts that did not materialize but also entailed time and 
money in planning, the total cost of all these projects was 
$20,000. The factor, of course, was Roby, and William Davis' trust 
in Roby, in making the unusual decision not to impose a 
deadline. Certainly, Roby also worked effectively to deadline. The 
three- year study of Professional Education in Canada, funded by 
the Kellogg Foundation in 1970, conducted many interventions in 
professional schools, and unique cross- disciplinary and 
inter- university meetings of professional faculties: produced a film 
on innovations, and the first National Conference on Continuing 
Education in the Professions, and a national newsletter; and on 
conclusion, deposited in OISE a substantial library on professional 
education. Again, in 1976, the Manpower Program funded a 
proposal by Roby to produce a video program for the training of 
teachers of basic adult education. Typically, he brought into 
collaboration with OISE. the Ontario Educational Communications 
Authority (OECA) and Ryerson Polytechnical Institute; and instead 
of a single program, produced four that have been widely 
disseminated in the community college system. 

However, in 1970, when Roby undertook to accelerate the 
inevitable within OISE itself, his proposal for a Canadian Studies 
intitiative ran into resistance in OISE's Ofiice of Research and 
Development (R&D). Perhaps part of the problem was that OISE's 
Co-ordinator of R&D at the time wis an American, but the 
opposition manifested itself in the old argument: research vs. 
development 

In response to an inquiry, Kenneth F. Prueter, former 
Co-ordinator of Field Development at OISE, forwarded this 
insightful account: 

At OISE, both Roby and I had our difiiculties, for 
each of us were often criticized by our foreign and 
very young faculty as being too interested in 
development of people and ideas and not really very 
"academic.** This criticism brought us together too, not 



lb* 5 



151 



so much to cry on one another's shoulders as to 
consider ways in which OISE could develop with 
necessary consideration for both people development as 
well as the academic as traditionally defined. 

Also Roby was most concerned that OISE 
become a Canadian study centre, working in the 
interests of the peoples of the world from the 
Canadian point of view, Roby felt that the American, 
the British, etc. approaches were well covered by 
significant study centres in other parts of the world 
but that the Canadian point of view would not be 
heard unless we made it so. It was this determination 
which in my mind marks Roby's most significant 
contribution, and I spent many hours talking about 
other Canadians who might be invited to join the 
OISE team , , , Then after Bemie Hodgetts did his 
study (1968). Roby was asked to head up a Canadian 
Studies Group within OISE Roby and I met with 
Walter Gordon and others a number of times and 
Roby's proposed approach was to help Canadians and 
particularly young Canadians to be more aware of 
what it meant to be a Canadian and to develop 
knowledge and pride in our country and for our 
country, I recommended that a professorial chair be 
created at OISE. a professor of Canadian Studies, and 
that Roby be invited to be the first incumbent While 
people like Walter Gordon, Claude Bissel (President of 
U of T), the late Bora Laskin, and our director 
applauded this suggestion, our young mavericks within 
OISE were strongly opposed on the grounds that 
Canadian Studies must be research based with little 
attention to either the teaching program or the 
development program for the first years, Roby wanted 
all three to begin, drawing upon existing expertise and 
knowledge until new studies suggested change (Prueter, 
personal communication, March 27. 1984), 

What Prueter and Roby recognized was the danger that 
without the focus of a Centre, Canadian Studies could become just 
another group of research projects without developmental impact — 
a common problem at OISE as in many research organizations, 
Roby described the goal in the 1970-71 Departmental Report (his 
last): 



Canadian Studies are a feature, not only of one 
Department but of the whole Institute. However, since 



152 



th e *major th rust' is being co- ordinated by J. R, 
Kidd, much of the planning for this area of work was 
centred in the Department during 1970-71. In future 
years OISE will have a special centre for Canadian 
Studies to which the Department will be one 
contributor among many. 

But coming at a time when financial constraints were 
becoming severe, the setback to Prueter's initiative was fatal. 
Roby's leadership stimulated numbers of cross- departmental 
projects, but the majoi thrust (another term Roby disliked) has 
not materialized into a Centre, and Canadian Studies remain 
fragmented and sporadic at OISR Perhaps the fresh enterprise of 
the Ministry of Education, referred to above, will revive the 
concept; if Roby were alive today we could eliminate the first 
word of this sentence. 

Roby Kidd continued his own initiatives, of course. In 1979, 
he obtained funds from the Ontario Ministry of Culture and 
Recreation for a project on the Heritage of Canadian Adult 
Education which brought into collaboration with OISE, the Ontario 
Association for Continuing Education, Frontier College, the United 
Nations Association, a Rural Learning Project, and the International 
Council for Adult Education (ICAE). The following year he 
proposed a second phase within OISE to document: 

. . . the growth and development of important 
programs in Ontario's mid- century period (1937-67) in 
the area of adult education, recreation, leisure, and 
community development The monographs will 
reproduce the fragile materials and reports found in 
archives that illuminate an era and provide social 
history in aural, picture, and written form (Kidd, 1980). 

A spinoff was to be the presentation and publication by the Third 
(National) Conference on Organization Archives, which naturally 
Roby was instrumental in organizing. 

One last point about Roby's commitment to Field Service/ 
Development, while recognizing that the preceding description 
barely sufiices as an introduction to the range of his interventions: 
he hand-picked his successor, Alan Thomas, as Chairperson, in 
1971. In the interview referred to earlier, Lynn Davie assesses the 
connection in relation to OISE: "At the moment adult education is 
enjoying a great deal of support in the Institute . . . My view is 
that the biggest impact on that change in perception is Alan 
Thomas. Now you have got to understand that Alan Thomas was 



153 



brought here by Roby Kidd . . . "(personal communication, 1983). 

Clearly, Thomas was his own person; Roby*s objective in 
shepherding Thomas — like himself, a former Director of the 
CAAE — to succeed as Chairperson was to ensure that the 
Department would continue to remain relevant to the needs of the 
field. The distinction with which Thomas honoured that 
responsibility was rewarded in 1981, when he was named a 
Member of the Order of Canada. 



International Exchange 
Comparative and International Studies 

Mention was made earlier that Roby intended the W, L. Grant 
Fellowship to bring foreign scholars as well as Canadians to the 
Department, and from the beginning it has done so. In the early 
years, international Fellows included Dusan Savicevic, University of 
Belgrade; Ingelise Udjus, University of Oslo; Kwa Hagan of 
Ghana; Elisabeth Boucherant. Secretary of the World Confederation 
of Organizations of the Teaching Profession (Roby was first 
Chairperson of its Adult Education Committee); Anil Bordia, a 
deputy minister of education in India; and Paul Lengrand, then 
Head of UNESCO's Division of Youth and Adult Education. 

Note also must be made of the unending stream of visitors 
from abroad to Roby*s office, many of whom were pressed into 
presenting seminars or lectures; thirty of these visitors were listed 
in the Year Two Departmental Report — after that, the list grew 
too long to include in the annual reports. 

Finally, but by no means insignificant, was the great number 
of foreign students attracted because of Roby*s reputation: students 
from the new nations of Africa, from India, Australia, New 
Zealand, Thailand, the Philippines, Egypt, the Sudan. Israel, the 
UK, and the West Indies. Because of the nature of the 
department - small clr<;ses, Roby*s decentralization of 
decision- making in committees with substantial student 
representation, and encouragement of the formation of a student 
organization, and much emphasis on group learning projects — the 
foreign students were rich resources in this learning community 
and an ongoing chain of international exchange after they 
departed. 

The international atmosphere generated by all these people 
was a constant in the Department, but Roby wanted more 
institutionalized support and structures in OISE, an Office for 
International Education. In the 1968-69 Department Report, Roby 
describes the purpose of the OfTice: "To structure and direct the 
international outreach of OISE; to facilitate educational exchange 



168 



154 



and professional collaboration; to undertake research and studies 
rn^o,!,Jt^«°"-S. problems of cr em to our modem intemational 
community. The person he tui^.ed to in OISE was Ken Prueter 
Co-ordmator of Field Development, and an Office was set up in 
Prueicrs area; he describes the relationship: 

Roby and I worked most closely in the area of 
mternational education. Here Roby was the leader and 
he worked with me to make me enthusiastic too. 
Roby felt that Canadian children must be given the 
opponunity to grow up seeing themselves as Canadian 
ciuzens of a very dependent and interdependent world. 
Smce he felt that educational programs which seek to 
develop attitudes must be started at the earliest age 
he turned to me as an early childhood educator. Then 
Roby was concerned about ways in which OISE could 
work with developing countries to help them to 
develop their national aspirations. And Roby was 
concemed that the student body at OISE be 
international in fact, so that Canadian students could 
benefit from smdy with students from other parts of 
the world and foreign smdents could find smdies 
related to the problems with which they would deal 
on their return to leadership positions in their own 
o^^i^^^N ■ ■ ■ (P^^t^J^- personal communication. March 

The Office received project funding for curriculum 
developments with a School Board, the Ontario TeacS 
?^?aerauon. and so forth, but not a long-term commitment from 
A lu ^^^S'^^' J^S concept was picked up by others in OISE, 
and the OfTice of Intemational Education is planned to be located 
again m the Department of Adult Education under the supervision 
of David Wilson and Joseph Farrell. both formerly of the 
Department of Educauonal Planning. 

In the Department's Graduate Smdies program. Roby brought 
all these intemauonal resources together in the summer of 1967 
to present the first course of Comparative Studies in Adult 
Educauon offered anywhere. He was proud of the distinction but 
had no intenuon of preserving the exclusivity. On the contrary he 
moved with dispatch to involve other universities, probably because 
they were obviously needed if comparative smdies were to become 
a significant sub- discipline in the smdy of adult education but 
also perhaps, because he perceived the role that comparative 
studies in adult education could play in the intemational exchange. 
Accordingly, he attended the meeting of the Commission of 



155 



Professors of Adult Education (United States and Canada) in early 
1968 in Chicago, invited that body to meet at OISE in 1969, and 
persuaded them to establish a sub- committee on comparative and 
international education, which he agreed to chair. (At this meeting, 
he was also elected as one of the three editors, with George 
Aker and Robert Smith, of the United States Handbook of Adult 
Education). 

Meanwhile, he persuaded John Ohliger of Ohio State and 
John Lowe of Edinburgh to introduce comparative studies into 
their programs, and on April 10, 1968 — barely eight months after 
completing the first course on the subject — he collaborated with 
Donald Adams of Syracuse to organize at OISE the first 
International Seminar on Comparative Studies in Adult Education. 
The report notes 23 participants from six universities in six 
countries, and while it is true that many were students, it should 
be remembered that Roby regarded them as colleagues and 
resources for a future network. 

Two years later, the new "discipline" had advanced to the 
point where a two- day seminar at OISE could focus on the 
specific topic of "Methods in Comparative Studies in Adult 
Education" and by the fall of 1970. Roby was able to add a 
second stage to the Comparative Studies course, so that students 
could pursue their research at a more rigorous level. He organized 
an international seminar agam in 1971, and by now had set the 
stage for larger things; however, to appreciate the perspective, we 
must take a brief step back in history. 

Roby enjoyed recalling that the Second World Conference of 
Adult Education, which he chaired in 1960 in Montreal, was the 
first and only time that an event in adult education appeared on 
the front page of the New York Times. Both The Times and 
Time magazine predicted that the Russian contingent would walk 
out When the Russians arrived. Roby led the Canadian delegation 
to a lengthy meeting with them, which ended with the Russians 
agreeing to permit the Canadians to put forwsird the contentious 
Russian recommendations. Coming from the Canadian delegation, 
the recommendations were accepted in their entirety by the 
Americans and the conference was saved. Seven years later, 
Michael Kachin, the head of tiie Russian delegation and Deputy 
Minister of Education for the Russian Republic (a very exposed 
political position), trusted Roby to such an extent that he accepted 
a post as Editorial Associate of Convergence. 

It can be appreciated then, that the Third World Conference 
(changed to Third International Conference to avoid connotation 
with the Third World countries), which was to be sponsored by 
UNESCO in 1972. was high on Roby's list of priorities. But in 
1971, UNESCO experienced unexpected financial cutbacks and Rene 



170 



156 



Maheu, the Director- General, began to challenge the need for an 
expensive world conference. Informed by Paul Bertelson, Head of 
the Out- of- School Department, Roby flew to Paris and persuaded 
Maheu to let the conference go on. by promising to take personal 
responsibility for its planning. In doing so. Roby followed the 
standard UNESCO procedure of organizing international meetings 
of experts to identify themes and major issues to be addressed at 
the conference. The great stroke was turning these meetings onto 
the theme of Comparative Adult Education, as at the January. 
1972 meeting in Denmark. It was through these meetings also that 
Roby organized the initiative for the International Council for 
Adult Education, but the mark of the man was surely that while 
saving the world conference in Tokyo, he was single-handedly 
advancing a field of study. 

In OISE itself, the impact of Roby*s work in comparative 
studies is described by Davie, in the same interview quoted 
earlier: 

For a long period of time during the 1970*s the 
primary work in comparative adult education that was 
being done in the Institute was Roby*s . . . 
coincidentally with his death, we were then merged 
with a big chunk of resources from the Educational 
Planning (Department). Four faculty members 
eventually ended up here from that department with 
interests in comparative education. In fact this year 
. . . that whole area is sort of flowering ... If 
there hadn't been Roby when the decision to disperse 
the Educational Planning Department came about . . . 
I don't think it would have occurred to anyone that 
adult education would be a good place for their 
resources . . . Certainly anyone who is well known 
and has star status brings it to the Department 
(personal communication. 1983). 

Convergence 

In 1965. UNESCO ceased publishing Youth and Adult Education, 
not a very impressive journal but the only international one in 
the field. One of Roby's earliest acts as Chairperson was to 
obtain OISE support for a proposal to the Atkinson Foundation. 
This resulted in a grant of $16,000 to found an international 
quarterly for a three- year period. In eariy April. 1967. he met 
with Jackson. OISE*s Director, and obtained roughly matching 
funds that paid for the fine editing services of OISFs editorial 
division, and a portion of a Project Director's time to act as 
Managing Editor, the position I assumed July 1, 1967. 



17i 



157 



Roby took the title of the journil from Teilhard de 
Chardin, "Tout ce qui monte, converge," on being informed that 
the word existed with that meaning in Spanish arid Russian. His 
intention was to publish in four languages of UNESCO, i.e. 
articles originating in French and Spanish- speaking countries and 
in the USSR were published in Convergence in their respective 
languages. Translation costs were funded by a grant of $5,000 
obtained by Roby from the UNESCO National Commission. 

One of Roby's first tasks was the appointment of 
twenty- two adult educators around the world to act as Editorial 
Associates, whose chief function (rarely required) was to identify 
sources. The Canadian Associate was Femand Jolicoeur in Quebec 
(Claude Ryan declined); the coup was Michael Kachin of the 
USSR, but the list reads like a Who's Who of adult education in 
the world. On the other side of the coin, Roby's name and 
reputation were such that before Convergence published its first 
issue, mailed announcements brought nearly 1,000 subscriptions. 
Ultimately, subscriptions hovered about the 1700 mark in 70 
countries, which Roby expanded to over 100 in 1969 by donating 
free subscriptions to the national libraries of countries not yet 
penetrated by the journal. It was also Roby's policy to accept the 
request of countries for subscriptions through exchange of journals 
(including the USSR!) with the consequence that my office 
gradually filled with educational journals that I suspected no one 
in their right senses would read even if they could, so I donated 
them to the OISE library. 

It won't do to overlook the design of the cover. In 
December of 1967, Roby attended a showing of the work of Dora 
de Pedery-Hunt, a very fine medallist He persuaded her to 
design Convergence's cover and medal which became a gift that 
Roby gave with special feeling, partly because of its beauty, partly 
because of what Convergence represented to him. What that was 
can be inferred from the themes, which were always his decision 
until he handed over editorship to Edward Hutchison in 1973, and 
from the special features: the great educators, the great schools, 
research abstracts, a calendar of international and major national 
conferences, and an invention, a kind of collation of international 
information that bore on the theme of the issue and/or was news, 
as in Vol. IV, No. 3, 1971, when Roby was able to annoimce that 
he had negotiated confirmation of the World Conference (the 
name was changed later) for July 25 to August 7. 1972, in Japan, 
and in the following issue, on Research in Adult Education, 
reproduced the questionnaire that went out to all member 
countries to prepare national statements for the Conference; Roby 
gave this column the title Ensemble; it simply reinforced his 
determination to foster international exchange and co-operation. 



172 



158 



The themes of Convergence represented Roby's perceptions 
of the priorities of international adult education. The first issue 
featiued "professional training of adult educationists" and 
introduced ^to the field the Yugoslavian coinage of the term 
"andragogy." As it happened, I presumed to correct the spelling to 
androgogy, a solecism that earned a sharp rebuke from Dusan 
Savicevic, so that the term was profiled in corrected form in Vol. 
1. No. 2, June, 1968, in all four languages of the journal, with the 
Yugoslavian researchers' embryo definition: "Andragogy is the 
theory of adult education that now takes place as a new discipline 
in the universities." A consequence of the accident was that it 
drew the attention of Malcolm Knowles, who wrote to thank Roby 
for the term he had been seeking for some time to differentiate 
adult education from child education, and gave the word powerful 
currency for theory building in this "new discipline." 

There were many firsts in Convergence's themes, beginning 
with the first issue, and of course each issue was unique ir 
Roby's remarkable accomplishment in bringing together th- 
experiences of so many countries cn each subject And, at least in 
this admittedly brief perspective, many of the themes he chose 
appear to have earned a lasting historical significance. 

Here are a few of those theme nimibers: the impact of the 
technologies on adult education; Education Permanente, including a 
major analysis by Paul Lengrand who formulated the concept; the 
Education of Women, edited by Marion Royce; Leisure (doubly 
unusual in that it focused on research in that field); Legislation 
and Financing of Adult Education, which drew attention to new 
Danish legislation^ the first of the Scandinavian governments to 
fund autonomous study grour-s; an historical review of the decade 
following the Montreal Worid Conference (1960); and also in 1970, 
the issue that introduced to the world Comparative Studies in 
Adult Education included a description of the work of Paulo 
Freire in Brazil and Chile, which distinguished Convergence as the 
first adult education journal to publish Freire's methods and 
philosophy. 

In addition to commissioning the articles and writing the 
Introduction, Roby occasionally contributed anonymous pieces, as in 
Volume IV, No. 1 on the Third Worid, in which he wrote the 
features on a famous educator (Jose Marti) and the famous school 
(The School of the Third Worid: Prison). In this same year, 
while he was planning the Tokyo Conference, he wrote a signed 
piece for the issue on Community Colleges and organized the 
issue on Research, a theme he predicted in his Introduction "will 
exercise the delegates at the 1972 Conference ... to establish 
regular channels by which all research projects, from any country 
and in whatever language, can be summarized and shared." 



173 



159 



Volume V in 1972, was the last Roby edited: No. 1 is heavy 
reading, but it is an historic document, presenting the Pveports 
prepared by Member Countries for the Tokyo Conference; No. 2 
is a tour de force on Correspondence Education; No. 3 contains 
Roby's report on the Conference; No. 4 is a swan song to OISE, 
where the journal has come under attack because it is not 
academic enough, and becomes instead the ofTicial journal of the 
simultaneously announced International Council for Adult Education. 
It is interesting that in 1967, Roby had the foresight to set up an 
outside- OISE mailing address for Convergence, so that this change 
in affiliation in 1973 involved no problems whatsoever for 
subscribers and correspondents. 

A few brief retrospections. In most of the countries of the 
world, Roby's international journal had few subscriptions — in the 
USSR three or four — yet accurate and powerful penetration. For 
example, in a three- week visit I made to the Soviet Union in 
late 1968, every educator I met was familiar with Convergence sind 
eager to tell me what was wrong with it In 1970, Roby 
persuaded Cyrus Eaton to host a Pugwash Conference for 
Convergence's Editorial Associates and UNESCO experts, and so 
on: the strength of the support for the journal was astonishing, 
both from Europeans and Arnericsms. Savicevic stated that it was 
only through Convergence that he and his colleagues in Yugoslavia 
learned about what was going on in adult education research in 
the USSR. (In 1981, in the article on research in Convergence 
quoted at the end of this chapter, Roby drew attention to the 
"national institute on adult education research in Leningrad with 
100 full-time professional research personnel, publishing regularly, 
and none of us has made individual or co-operative efforts to 
know more about, to translate, or use this accumulating body of 
knowledge"). 

In 1970, Convergence conducted a competition; the prizes 
were four sets of the Encyclopaedia Brittanica (a gift of Kurt 
Swinton) and publication of the four best articles. The lead time 
was short, about nine months, because that issue was very late 
(every issue was late, as we held on to the last possible moment 
for a commissioned article), and only about 30 entries were 
received. But all of them were from Europe and the Third World 
countries, in many cases where the only subscriber was a 
government ministry or a library. In the 1967-68 Departmental 
Report announcing Convergence, Roby wrote: "Barriers of space 
and speech present adult educationists with formidable problems as 
they attempt to exchange ideas and experiences." Somehow, in a 
hundred countries. Convergence was scaling some of those barriers. 
Incidentally, the first prize winner, "Autcdafe of an adult literacy 
worker", by C Bonani (Vo!. IV, No. 1, 1971) is still a jewel. 



160 



Finally, Roby had a reputation lor being a vague 
administrator at OISE. That was nonsense, a figment of 
bureaucratic vision. The reader will recall that Convergence was 
funded by a one-time grant for three years; it was his skillful 
negotiation that extended those meagre funds until it was time to 
move Convergence into tlie ICAE. 



To Sum Up 

In shaping the Department of Adult Education at OISE in the 
late sixties, Roby was unequivocal about his emphasis on 
development and field service vis-a-vis research. It seems 
appropriate to conclude this chapter with his address, "Education 
Research Needs in Adult Education" delivered to the Lifelong 
Learning Research Conference, University of Maryland slightly 
abridged in Volume XIV, No. 2, 1981, of Convergence: 

We grew up quickly, learning valuable lessons from 
some of the achievements of older traditions of 
research, but also absorbing, emphasizing, and repeating 
some of the worst practices of others ... we often 
employ this truly precious resource (research funds) for 
questions so banal or so obvious that we might just 
as well flip a coin. 

How were the Chinese able, in a relatively short 
time, to animate, and sustain, about 600 million men 
and women as they underwent the trials and 
difficulties of becoming literate? 

There are other examples which show how we 
should make some effort to understand what others 
seem to be achieving in the realm of moral as well 
as cognitive learning. We might broaden this enquiry 
to enable us to underi>tand what different consequences 
there may be when adult education emphasizes and 
uses goals of the general good rather than, or in 
addition to, individual advantage, when cc^ operation is 
fostered and expressed rather than on those of intense 
competition . . . 

If my statement of the problem is accurate, 
what is needed is the use of research methodologies 
so that people who will be affected by research 
outcomes can participate in identifying the problems, 
obtaining the data, and prescribing outcomes based on 
research. . . 



17o 



161 



One development is that the map of adult 
education is filling in dramatically; important activities 
now occur in at least 80 countries. What are some of 
the important names in adult education today? 
Nyerere, a Tanzanian; Bordia, an Indian; Gelpi, an 
Italian; Freire, a Brazilian; Cabral, in Guinea-Bissau. 
At a world meeting on adult education in 1976, only 
about 20% of th e countributions were made in th e 
English language and most of these were by people 
who used English as a second and international 
language. . . . 

We do not attempt to keep in touch regularly 
with research in adult education and associated fields 
from other countries, even in such obvious places as 
Europe. . . .Learning is usually observed by us as an 
individual psychological or therapeutic activity, and 
rarely as a social process. . . . 

Much writing about research is as stylized as an 
airlines timetable, and only half as exciting. Not many 
practitioners want to hear or read the bland, 
homogenized, deodorized prose with which we report 
most educational experiments, inventions, innovations. 
Real people have laboured, agonized, sweated, found 
joy, frustration, and exhilaration, but we write about 
them, and their adventures in learning, as if they were 
cadavers or ciphers, not living, striving, loving, failing 
human beings. . . . 

To improve both practice and research means 
the improvement of communication, back and forth, 
between the practitioners and researchers. . . , 

More important, perhaps, than structures and a 
refinement of techniques, or the improvement in 
technologies, will bo to build a large consensus and 
commitment to adult education and its dedication to 
the growth and enlargement of all members of the 
human family. Some advance in research in adult 
education in the 1980*s is certain to come; but to 
reach our research potential we must use both brain 
hemispheres and all the powers that make us human. 

I would like to conclude on a personal note, albeit based 
on a lengthy heritage. Many adult educators distinguish between 
pedagogy and andragogy chiefly through the differences of life 
experience and the capadty for self- initiated and self-directed 
learning. Few perceive thai there is a more significant distinctioiL 
What really separates adult: from children is the recognition and 



162 



valuing of the responsibility to give to one's community. That is 
the greater sense of what it is to be an adult: to go beyond 
valuing one's family, friends, work, to accept responsibility to one's 
community and society. And a few. all too few, expressly include 
in their value system a larger vision that entails a personal 
commitment to the well-being — now the survival — of all 
people. I call this a world view, a distinction that was epitomized 
by Roby Kidd. 

References 

Davie, L. (1983). Audiotaped interview. 
Draper, J. (1983). Audiotaped interview. 
Flower, G. (1983). Audiotaped interview. 

Personal communication to the author, 1984. 

Hodgetts, B. (1968). What culture? What heritage? Report of the 

national history project. The Board of Governors, Toronto: 

OISE, 122. 

Jackson, R. W. B. (1965-66) First annual report of OlSE. 
Toronto: OISE. 

Kidd, J. R. Department of adult education aimual reports (in 

Department Archives): 

(July 1. 1966 - June 30, 1967) "Report of activities" 

(July 1967 - June 1968): Year two 

(July 1968 - June 1969): Year three 

(July 1969 - June 1970): Year four 

(July 1970 - June 1971): Annual report: lifelong learning 

(1973) How adults learn, 2nd edition. New York: Association 

Press. 

(1976). Progress report. Canadian studies projects, Toronto: 

OISE. 

(1980). Research and development proposal, USE. 

(April 14, 1981). Audiotaped interview transcript by B. 

Barnard. Toronto: OISE 
(1981). Education research needs in adult education. 

Convergence. XIV (2). 
Laskin, B. (1965-66). First annual report of the Board of 

Governors. Toronto: OISE 
Page, J. E. (1974). Canadian studies in community colleges. 

Toronto: Canadian Studies Office, OISE 175. 
Prueter, K. (March 27, 1984). Personal commimication to the 

author. 



17/ 



CHAPTER 10 



THE RAJASTHAN EXPERIENCE: 

LIVING AND LEARNING IN INDLV 

James A. Draper 

Introduction to Rajasthan 

It seems appropriate, even awesome, that I should be reflecting 
almost twenty years to the day, on the beginning of the Rajasthan 
Project What a rich and unforgettable experience it was for all 
those who participated in the experiment, especially for the 
Canadian members of the team. Officially, this was a Colombo 
Project between the governments of Canada and India, channeled 
through the University of British Columbia, and directed to the 
University of Rajasthan. From October 1964 to June 1968 these 
two universities worked closely with one another to expand and 
strengthen the extension and conmiunity activities of the University 
of Rajasthan, and eventually of many other post- secondary 
institutions in India. As an innovative enterprise, its story is a 
long one. The learning that occurred was immense, and people 
learned from successes as well as from those experiences that fell 
short of achieving their goals. The effects of the projgram's idea 
and structure are still very much in evidence in Rajasthan and 
other parts of India. Madras, Bombay, Pune, Hyderabad, 
Chandigarh, and Delhi, were only some of the areas touched by 
the power of concepts such as "continuous learning," social 
consciousness, and the responsibilities of universities to society. 

The historical and cultural history of India, and the 
contempory trends in the early 1960*s, offered fertile groimd for 
innovations and a re- examinination of the old way of doing 
things. For many centimes, universities and other centres for 
learning in India encouraged the quest for knowledge. There was 
a long indigenous tradition of higher education in this 
subcontinent The Indian Adult Education Association, one of the 
oldest Associations of its kind in the World, was formed in 1939. 
Furthermore, India had a long tradition of private. 



164 



non- governmental, social, and educational societies which practiced 
the ideas of social responsibility, self- help, interdependency, and 
community- based social action. All of these values, and more, 
symbolized the fertile ground in which seeds of promise, the 
ligasthan Project, were to grow and flourish. 

The need for the project grew out of a mmiber of political, 
social, and cultural factors, hence it is important to briefly say 
something about Rajasthan and Lidia, as ihey reflect these factors. 
In 1964. when the project began, the State of Rajasthan had a 
population greater than the whole of Canada, that is. upwards of 
twenty million. The State itself is the second largest in size in 
India- Eighty percent of the people live in some 33,000 villages. 

As for India as a whole, it is estimated that at that time, 
over 200 million adult men and women were illiterate (literacy 
levels included 26% male and 9% female). Such a situation also 
reflected other disadvantaged conditions: poverty, limited access to 
health care, and lack of other social and educational services. 
India became an integrated political unit in 1947. and at the 
commencement of the project had been independent for only 17 
years. Rajasthan was a feudal state at that time, and its present 
political borders did not become finally established until 1954. 

India's development goals were aimed at achieving 
modernization of society, economic development, reducing social 
and economic differences, and achieving social reforms. These 
broad goals were reflected as well in the purposes of the 
Indian-Canadian Colombo Project This began during India's 3rd 
Five Year Plan, 1962-67. although the 4th Plan was in 
preparation and was to put a greater focus on adult education and 
literacy. 

The University of Rajasthan was established in 1947. 
Although its main campus in Jaipur offer, graduate studies only, 
its more than sixty colleges, mostly liberal arts and some 
professional, ofi^ered the Project a network that extended 
throughout the State. In November 1962. as a result of the efforts 
of the vice-chancellor. Dr. Mehta. the University began to break 
away from tradition, and to cultivate a new and broader outlook 
on social utility, adaptability, and responsibility through its newly 
established department of adult education. 



The Meeting of Minds 

Three key persons were behind the thinking, planning, and 
contracting of the Rajasthan Project These were Drs. Mohan 
Sinha Mehta, J. Roby Kidd and John Friesen. Dr. Mehta. M.A., 
LL.B., Ph.D. (London), as a foremost adult educator in India, and 



165 



vice-chancellor of the University of Rajasthan from 1960 to 
January 4, 1966, was the principal person behind the Project It 
was he who brought it to Rajasthan. 

Mehta had a long and distinguished career as lawyer, 
diplomat, and educator; and brought his talents to the fields of 
education, social service, administration, diplomacy, and writing. He 
held ambassadorial posts in the Netherlands, Pakistan, and 
Switzerland, and represented India at the United Nations General 
Assembly. As an innovator in education, he established 
experimental schools for the training of teachers as well as village 
workers. He studied programs of adult education abroad and felt 
that universities must take the lead in preparing for change. 

From 1922 to 1938, Dr. Mehta was the honorary Scout 
Commissioner for India; and from 1944 to 1947 (the year of 
Indians independence) he was the chief minister of the Banswara 
princely state, which later became incorporated into the state of 
Rajasthan. 

Mehta believed that no community can survive or be free 
and viable in the world today unless there is a widespread and 
effective scheme of adult education organized for the community's 
benefit He believed in taking knowledge to the people and to 
their communities. Up to the early 1960s, universities in India did 
very little to render "extra-mural" service to society, apart from 
occasional extension lectures. Mehta was concerned about the 
English model of universities that essentially served the elite of 
society. He was determined to change the roles of universities in 
India, crumbling the walls separating them from their respective 
communities; and in 1961, realizing that the issue of university 
adult education needed to be faced practically and immediately, he 
decided that something should be done. 

In 1962, his concise proposals on the aims and forms of 
university adult education were accepted by the University of 
Rajasthan and the University Syndicate, and a University 
Department of Adult Education was organized in that year. In 
1963, a Department advisory conmiittee was organized with Mehta 
as chairman. Other members included the chief secretary. 
Government of Rajasthan; S. C. Dutta, honorary secretary of the 
Indian Ac'ult Education Association; the joint development 
commissioner; and Mr. V. V. John, director of college education 
in Rajasthan. The committee emphasized that an adult education 
program should be firmly based on community needs, and that 
surveys and research on their needs was a first requirement The 
report of the committee referred to four components of a 
university program. The first was university extension which would 
have a general program for the public, and would involve itself 
with the continuing education of teachers, community development 



ISO 



166 



workers, engineers, those in the health sciences, and other 
professionals. Such a program would also have special projects 
including literacy and women's education. The second component 
was the training of professional adult educators; it would offer a 
diploma course in extension education, and eventually a degree 
program in adult education. The third task was the development 
of a continuing education program through correspondence 
instruction. Lastly, there was to be established an evening college. 

During 1963-64, activities of the new E>epartment were 
confined to the organization of extension lectures. At the beginning 
of the India-Canada Project, the University of Rajasthan had 
already accepted the concept of university extension, and was the 
first university in India to do so, except for some extension 
activities of a few agricultural universities. Adult education was, 
therefore, not a foreign idea to the University. 

Mohan Sinha Mehta and Roby Kidd met for the first time 
at an international conference in New Delhi in 1961. At that 
time. Mehta was the president of the Indian Adult Education 
Association, and Roby was the executive director of the Canadian 
Association for Adult Education. Again at a later meeting at the 
UNESCO headquarters in Paris, Mehta shared his ideas with 
Roby. 

A number of events quickly followed In February 1962, Dr. 
John K. Friesen, then director of extension at the University of 
British Columbia, CuAiada, on his study- travel in India as a 
Fellow of UNESCO's East- West Project, journeyed to Rajasthan 
where he conferred with the Chief Minister and several of his 
Cabinet members. In Delhi, Friesen was also fortunate to meet 
with Prime Minister Nehru and with the then Vice-President Dr. 
Radhakrishnan. Both warmly endorsed the joint universities' Project 
in adult education. 

Prior to Friesen's informal discussions on a future agreement. 
Dr. Mehta had already approached the Government of India and 
the University of British Columbia to explore the possibility and 
extent of support In April 1962, he visited Canada to address the 
Canadian Conference on Education, and met with Dr. N. A. M. 
Mackenzie, then president of UBC. Mehta also met with Mr. H. 
O. Moran, director of External Aid in Ottawa (later to become 
the Canadian International Development Agency, CIDA). Mehta 
and Friesen were primarily responsible for working out a detailed 
plan which was submitted to the Government of India, and 
eventually the Government of Canada, The University of British 
Columbia agreed to offer its experience, and to make available to 
the project ideas and some resources. Additional costs beyond a 
university budget were to be supplied by the Canadian External 
Aid Office. Because of the India-China war, the implementation 



167 



of the project was delayed until 1964, although the initial 
intention had been to begin in 1962. 



A Contract is Signed 

A three- year Colombo Plan contract was signed between the 
govemnients of India and Canada and the Universities of 
Rajasthan and British Columbia. The Project contract was to 
expire in August, 1967, with the option of a one- year extension. 
As partners, the two universities agreed to expand the continuing 
education and extension activities of the University of Rajathan by 
increasing the scope and efTectiveness of the University in such 
areas as: 

• the training of professional and techrucal personnel; 

• teaching and research in adult education and related 
disciplines; 

• the organizing of correspondence courses; 

• the establishing of an evening college; 

• expanding the extcrsion program of the Universities; and, 

• recommending qualified staff and graduate students to study 
adult education and extension in Canada. 

As a demonstration project, the program was to work with 
management and government persons, and to facilitate the 
continuing education of professionals, including teachers. The 
Project was to include all aspects of adult education, continuing 
education, extra-mural studies, and social education. Furthermore, it 
expanded the concept of adult education beyond its narrow 
reference to literacy. The Project also introduced and popularized 
the usage of terms used at the international level, such as 
"lifelong" and "continuing education." The Project was to promote 
self-help development through training programs. Cultural 
exchanges were to be encouraged, and achieving this went beyond 
the boundaries of both the Indian and Canadian universities. From 
the beginning, the Canadian members of the team realized the 
importance of encouraging all organizations in India to continue 
their work with adults, and especially were supportive of the 
voluntary, non- governmental educational, and social service agencies. 

The Goverameut of Canada's grant included the salaries and 
international costs of the Canadian team members, provided 
equipment, books, and other publications, and, eventually, a 
four-wheel drive Land Rover. On the other hand, the University 
Grants Commission, Government of India, was to provide for local 
travel, accommodation, and special project funding such as research 



182 



168 



conferences. 

Although the focus of the Project was on one department of 
the University of Rajasthan, many resources beyond it were 
tapped. In return, many organizations became formally or 
informally associated in some way with the enterprise. The 
philosophical base for the Project was expressed by many key 
persons including Roby Kidd, and in many of his speeches he 
spoke of actions beginning with thoughts which are expressed in 
words. After the Canadian teams became involved in the Project, 
the need was recognized to keep re-examining and rephrasing the 
conceptual basis for the Project One endeavour attempted to 
broaden the working front with Rajasthan personnel who were 
engaged in, or responsible for, facilitating adult learning. The 
Project was also in charge of planning, organizing, conducting, and 
evaluating educational programs. Surveys were undertaken in order 
to ascertain ideas for progranraiing. The Project was to be 
innovative in its work, and to seek alternative methods of teaching 
and learning, as well as seeking new ways of delivering and 
sharing information and knowledge. Project members worked 
closely with many academic departments and field services of the 
University. The University was intended to be a leader and a 
trainer of leaders. The basic principles of adult education needed 
to be understood and practiced to the greatest extent possible. 

The Canadian members did not want to be perceived, nor 
to act, as foreign experts as was typical of many international aid 
programs. The members came as learners and teachers, prepared 
to listen and observe, working within a different but very 
stimulating cultural environment Speaking on continuing education 
in India and Canada in September 1965, Roby expressed a sincere 
humility by emphasizing what we all had to learn from India and 
our Indian colleagues. He especially mentioned what we could 
learn from India's philosophical and religious insights, India's 
principles and practices of social education, her skills in art and 
literapire, as well as music, theatre, and crafts, and from India's 
association with many peoples with whom Canadian contacts were 
minimal or uncommon. The Project began with enthusiasm, hope, 
and great expectations. 



The Beginnings 

As Project advisor I arrived in Jaipur, followed by John K. 
Friesen, director of the Project, in October 1965, to initiate the 
project with Indian colleagues. These colleagues included Dr. 
Mehta, vice-chancellor, L. R. Shah, assistant registrar and soon to 
become a key figure in the project, and U. S. Gaur, director of 



183 



169 



the Department of Adult Education. In consultation with many 
university faculty and government personnel, the first major task 
was to carefully plan and undertake an extensive survey of 
selected Rajasthan commtuiities, both urban and rural. Major urban 
centres were visited and meetings v/ere organized with such groups 
as public school and college teachers, health, welfare, and 
community development workers, business people, persons associated 
with co-operatives, voluntary agencies, numerous government 
services, and journalists. Meetings were also held with all 
departments of the University of Rajasthan as well as with two 
other state universities in Rajasthan. Furthermore, in the city of 
Jaipur where the University is located, ?00 male householders and 
325 women were polled to find ways that the University might 
serve them. 

The rural component of the assessment included sixteen 
villages, randomly selected throughout the State, in order to leam 
the general socio-economic picture of these areas, and to assess 
the priority of needs with which the University might be able to 
deal. Special attention was given to the need for literacy and to 
economic and social development Interviews were held with village 
leaders, teachers, administrators, and also with government officials 
within the village regions. In all, a team of six young Indian men 
took part as interviewers in the survey. In some cases, the team 
went into the villages with 16mm projectors and films, for 
purposes of entertaining and educating, but especially for 
publicizing the new University of Rajasthan project and its 
expanding work in extension and adult education. The result of 
these far-reaching mral and ui^an surveys was a report called 
Continuing Education at the University: A Plan for the University 
of Rajasthan, (Friesen & Draper, 1965). The report made a 
number of recommendations, and served as a guide for the 
continuation and further planning of the program as it moved into 
its second year. Other publications came out of this Survey as 
well (Draper & Shrivastava, 1965). 

Through this initial year, the Canadian advisors and 
colleagues co-operated closely with such agencies as the National 
Education Commission, the Indian Adult Education Association, the 
University Grants Commission, and oflicials of the Government of 
Rajasthan in organizing two very important national conferences, 
one on general adult education held at Mount Abu, Rajasthan, 
and the second on the extension role of Indian universities which 
took place in Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh. Dr. Mohan S. Mehta was 
the general chairman for both conferences. 

During the warm days of April 1965, forty men and women 
educationists journeyed to the Rajasthan hill station of Mt. Abu 
and took up residence in the summer palace of tlie Maharaja of 



184 



170 



Bikaner. Participants included Mr. V. V. John, director of the 
Indian Council for Social Science Research. These camp conference 
participants worked diligently for five days defining and discussing 
problems and issues of general adult education, such topics as the 
concept and philosophy of adult education, literacy education, civic 
participation, and the training of leaders. The concluding statement 
coming from the conference was that ''Lifelong education for 
survival has become so imperative that we shall ignore it at our 
peril" (Friesen, 1965). 

The first all- India conference on university extension was 
held in the city of Bhopal, July 5-9, 1965. The purpose of the 
conference was to further understand and define the task of 
Indian universities, and to examine their responsibilities both for 
the education of adults and for their respective communities. 
Education for social responsibility, liberal education, the continuing 
education of the professions, and adult education as a field of 
study were also discussed. Among the forty- four participants were 
ten university vice-chancellors, as well as S. C. Dutta. Honourary 
General Secretary of the Indian Adult Education Association; 
members of the Indian Planning Commission (Education): Dr. V 
S. Jha, V. K. R. V. Rao and Dr. K. G. Saiyidain; Prof. L. R. 
Shah, the administrative secretary to the vice-chancellor of the 
University of Rajasthan and later to become fully involved in 
adult education; Dr. Amrik Singh. Secretary of the Inter 
University Board; A. P. Srivastava, head of the Department of 
Library Science. University of Rajasthan, later to become a 
UNESCO advisor and eventually the chief librarian. University of 
Delhi; and Dr. T. A. Koshy, Director of the National 
Fundamental Education Centre in New Delhi. (Friesen & Dutta, 
1965). 

This conference of vice-chancellors and representatives of 
universities in India was convened jointly by the University of 
Rajasthan and the Indian Adult Education Association, with 
financial assistance from the University Grants Commission and 
active co-operation from The Education Planning Commission. It 
should be noted that, arising directly from this Conference in 
Bhopal, the Indian University Adult Education Association was 
formed in 1967. 

Also in 1965. the Education Commission appointed a task 
force on adult education to study the problems of university 
extension work. The resulting report indicated that "generally 
speaking, all the universities in India agree in principle that the 
university should serve the community including the adult 
population." 



1 3 



171 



Roby Kidd as Conceptualist and Facilitator 

John Friesen left India in June, 1965. I continued into my second 
year on the Project and was joined in Jaipur in August 1965, by 
Roby Kidd. Roby's presence especially was influential on policy 
development At the international level, the year had further 
significance. Nineteen sixty- five was International Co-operation 
Year, initiated by Prime Minister Nehru in his speech at the 
United Nations in November, 1961, and endorsed and seconded as 
a resolution by Canada. To enhance the coincidence and ties 
between the two countries and Roby's presence, it is important to 
record that he was chairman of the Canadian International 
Co-operation Year Planning Committee. Roby acknowledged that 
"my coming to India is my personal ICY Project" He felt that 
international co-operation must go beyond what governments can 
do. 

The year 1965 was indeed vibrant In November, the 
President of India, Dr. Radhakrishnan spoke at the convocation of 
the Indian Institute of Technology in Kanpur, and talked about 
the role of science in the pursuit of truth. An editorial in the 
September 22 issue of The Times of India newspaper urged that 
India "Shake off the Bonds of Old Ties." A reorganization of 
agricultural research in India was underway, and throughout India 
students were being urged to act as agents of change. Such was 
the rapidly evolving stage upon which the Project was performing. 

The second year of the Project was restricted by a number 
of "emergencies" in India, not the least of which were the failure 
of the 1965 monsoon, military expenditures on the Pakistan and 
China borders, and the devaluation of the Indian rupee. Roby 
Kidd's presence on the Project helped greatly to minimize the 
restrictive pressur on the undertaking. There was no doubt that 
he was perceived in India as a dynamic and well respected leader 
in the field of adult education. 

A few days after the Indian Pakistan war in September, 
1965. Roby and I were invited to the desert city of Bikaner to 
meet with Mr. Anil Bordia, the director of primary and secondary 
education for the Stale. Among other topics, they discussed the 
possibility of holding the first adult continuing education program 
for teachers in May, 1966. Other subjects examined were: the 
possibility of offering corresponc ^nce study programs; establishing 
an institute for headmasters; uroan literacy; as well as offering 
adult education through the schools; and the government 
Department of Education. Returning overnight to Jaipur in 
darkness imposed by the war curfew, Roby's and my own wishes 
for peace were intermingled with enthusiasm for the work that lay 
ahead in implementing the Project 



1S6 



172 



Upon his arrival in Jaipur, Roby immediately became 
chairman of two important committees both of which produced 
reports. The first was a Report of the Committee on Evening 
Colleges (Kidd, 1965) which prepared a plan for evening college 
classes to be held in twelve cities in the State of Rajasthan, 
through the vast college network of the University of Rajasthan. 

The second was a Report of the Committee on 
Correspondence Study (Kidd, 1966). Expected initial enrolments of 
10,000 students per year would greatly extend the learning 
opportunities for adults and others in the State. This Report was 
approved by the University Syndicate on November 24, which 
made it possible to proceed immediately in developing 
correspondence programs in Hindi. Also in November, the Report 
on Evening Colleges was approved to work through arts, 
commerce, and science colleges. 

Roby Kidd was also greatly influential in conceptualizing a 
Centre for Continuing Education which he defined as "a facility 
that is planned to provide continuing opportunities for mature 
people to study and grow." Such a Centre would help to facilitate 
business and industrial competence, leadership in voluntary groups 
and agencies, citizenship and international understanding, individual 
growth and development, physical education and recreation, and 
arts and crafts. All these he saw in a wide perspective, and as 
frequently interrelated. On December 23, 1965, the comer stone 
for such a Centre was laid on the campus of the University by 
the Honourable Roland Michener, High Commissioner for Canada 
to India. 

In the Fall of 1965, I was invited by Professor A. P. 
Srivastava, head of the University's Department of Library Science, 
to offer the first graduate level course in India on adult education 
as a field of study. Focusing on the role of librarians as adult 
educators, the course lasted a full semester. Roby was invited to 
give two lectures. These anticipated later offerings of graduate 
studies in adult education by the University of Rajasthan, and 
took the meaning of adult education beyond its narrow reference 
to adult literacy. The course discussed the role of the library in 
the service of the community, and linked adult education and 
extension work to the functions of the library. 

As if the above accomplishments were not sufficient, a 
number of others can be cited, that directly related to the 
Rajasthan project: 

• Arising out of Anil Bordia's increasing interest in adult 
education, a special issue of Naya Shikshak focused entirely 
on adult education to which Roby, myself, and others 
contributed articles. Naya Shikshak is the quarteriy journal 



187 



173 



of the Department of Education, G vemnient of Rajasthan. 
In ais chapter, Roby urged administrators of universities, 
colleges, and schools to become involved in continuing 
education, and he pointed out that the adva^jtages of doing 
so were to the student, the Institut'.a, and to teachers. He 
firmly reiterated his strong belief th^.t adults have a capacity 
to learn. He also stated that teaching adults was a privilege 
and not a burden. 

• Efforts were made to explore the possibility of the 
University of Rajasthan becoming the centre for adult 
education for South East Asia. 

• Dr. Robert Heilig,- M.D., a senior faculty member and its 
librarian, became the medical extension person, thiis 
extending professional resources within the University's 
extension program, 

• November, 1965, the first conference of College Extension 
Directors was held at which Roby Kidd and myself were 
present This lead to the opening of extension activities in 
some twenty- five colleges in the State. 

• The first issue of Prasar was produced as the journal of the 
Department of Adult Education, University of Rajasthan. 
This journal grew directly out of recommendation from the 
College Extension Directors' conference. 

• Meena Dandiya joined the Department of Adult Education, 
After U. S. Gaur retired in 1968. she was appointed 
director of the Department 

The untimely and unexpected death of Prime Minister 
Shastri in January, 1966, was a great loss to the Nation. The 
University of Rajasthan also shared its own loss because of the 
retirement of Dr. Mohan S. Mehta as vice-chancellor. He was 
succeeded by Professor M. Mathur. 

In 1966, the Indian Education Conmiission completed several 
years Of study and reconmiendations. A key chapter in its Report 
(Ministry of Education, Government of India, 1966) was devoted to 
adult education and the high priority that must be given to it. as 
an integral part of India's plan for development and influencing 
India's Fourth Five Year Plan, 1966-71. This chapter's 29 
recommendations urged that libraries, voluntary agencies, and 
universities assume greater responsibility for the education of 
adults; and that they set up divisions of adult education, literacy, 
and correspondence programs. Primarily, it was Roby Kidd and S. 
C. Dutta, of the Indian Adult Education Association, who prepared 
the first draft of the chapter on adult education for the 
Conmiission. 

After months of planning by myself and others, a ten- day 



188 



174 



National conference was held at the University, on the topic of 
ct>-operaUon and planning. It served as an example of the kind 
of intei^ agency co-operation that took place in the Project's 
innovative kinds of programming. The conference was co~ sponsored 
by Tlie Departments of Adult EducaUon and Economics. University 
of Rajasthan. with added support from The Rajasthan State 
Co-operaUve Union. The State Department of Development and 
Plaiming. and the Registrar of Co-operatives in the State of 
Rajasth^. Financial support came from the British Columbia 
Credit Umon (Canada). Some of the topics discussed by various 
resource persons and the twenty- nine participants, senior officials 
ot commumty development in Aajasthan. included: the role of 
co-operatives in democratic planning, agriculture co-operatives in 
India, and consumers co-operatives (Draper. 1966). 
. April. 1966. Roby returned briefly to Canada to deliver 

me Quance Lectures on Canadian Education. Upon his return to 
Jaipur ne conducted an extended seminar at the University of 
Rajasthan. attended primarily by deans and faculty. He spoke of 
the implications of continuing education, drawing heavily upon his 
guance lectures. He referred to. and in fact eloquently argued for 
the application of the principles to which he was committed, for 
instance, ^continuing learning can result in sharing the power of 
education. lifelong learning brings into association all the 
members of the educational family." and "teaching can become the 
most sigmficant of all professions." In keeping with his tiadiUon 
of delivery, he ended with a quote, this time a prayer from the 
Rig Veda: 

O Lord, accept the fruits of our labour. 
Grant us new and ever renewing life. 
And raise amongst us great teachers 
who may enrich us all with wisdom. 

io/:c ^sing from the discussions with Anil Bordia in September. 
1965. Roby and James Draper launched the first professional 
training diploma on adult education, designed to improve the 
provision of adult education in Rajasthan. The program which 
went from May 9 to June 1. focussed on the Principles and 
Methods of Adult Education and was offered on the campus of 
the University. The twenty-six participants included college 
extension directors, librarians, secondary school administrators, 
extension ofTicers, and others. The program would not have taken 
place had it not been for the support given by Anil Bordia and 
V. V. John. 

Amidst whirling ceiling fans, and with dampened kush hush 
grass over the windows, and in the dry heat of Rajasthan's desert. 



183 



175 



participants worked on projects, discussed, and prepared papers. 
Some also worked on the third issue of Prasar, the journal of the 
Department of Adult Education of the University. At the 
successful completion of the course, participants received a 
certificate which read: "In duration, degree of difUculty, and 
teaching methods employed, this course is equal to courses offered 
at The Master of Arts degree level in universities in Canada and 
the United States." The Certificate was jointly signed by Roby 
Kidd and myself. Towards the last days of the program, Knute 
Buttedahl arrived from Canada, to bejgin the third phase of the 
Rajasthan Project Mr. Om P. Shrivastava, who was initially 
appointed to assist me with the rural survey in 1964, assisted with 
this program. In time, Om was to travel to Canada to receive his 
doctorate in adult education, and to return to make a sigr'ificant 
contribution to adult education in India, 

Other achievements during this second year of the Project 
included these: 

• In early 1966, approval was given by the University 
Syndicate to develop a post graduate degree program in 
adult education, offering the M.A. and M.Iitt degrees, 
certificates in adult educaton, as well as individual courses. 
The following year, this policy was to begin with a Diploma 
in adult education. 

• Project members assisted in developing a plan and a budget 
for adult education, which eventually went to the Ministry 
of Education. 

• Ansing from a two-day conference sponsored by the 

apartment of Adult Education of the University, and 
attended by upwards of ninety persons, came tne formation 
of the Rigasthan Adult Education Association. 

• A jeep for the Project was acquired. 

• The Inflo- Canadian Society was formed in Jaipur at the 
initiative of Indian friends and colleagues. As a result of the 
efforts of this Society, and especially its president. University 
dean D:. T. K. N. Unnitban, the cities of Jaipur and 
Calgary were eventually "twinned" and so recognized by 
UNESCO^ 

• The Canadian members spoke to a number of groups, 
including Rotary International and schools, about the Project 
and the concepts of continuing education. 

• In April, Dr. M. S. Mehta went to Vancouver, Canada to 
reinforce the ties between the Universities of Rajasthan and 
British Columbia, and to discuss some of the activities of 
the forthcoming third year of the i .roject with Knute 
Buttedahl and John Friesen. 



176 



Project members worked closely with Faculties of 
Engineering, Social Sciences, and Commerce to actually 
develop extension programs in Engineering, Management, 
Public Administration, and Welfare. 
The first college extension newsletter was produced. 
Team members assisted the Government of Rajasthan in 
planning a five year adult literacy campaign for men and 
women in the 14^45 age group. 
® A grant from the University of British Columbia Women's 
Club assisted the campus nursery school in Jaipur to 
purchase equipment Two Canadian women, associated with 
the Project through their spouses, were founding members of 
the school. The same Women's Club in Vancouver 
"twinned" with its Jaipur counterpart 

• The Encyclopedia Britannica, the Thompson Foundation, the 
Overseas Institute of Canada, the Centre for the Study of 
Literal Education for Adults in the United States, the 
University of British Columbia and others made contributions 
to the University of Rajasthan library collection on adult 
education. Other gifts were forthcoming from Canada, 
including a shipment of paper. 

• Thanks to the strong influence of Anil Bordia, the year 1966 
saw the formation of the Bikaner Adult Education 
Association 

• Seminars for headmasters of secondary schools were 
organized and night schools were opened where none had 
existed before. 

• Disaissions were held with medical doctors to plan health 
and nutrition programs, as well as consultations with state 
government officials about the further training of 20,000 
village- level leaders. Finally, discussions took place with 
business men about how courses in business administration 
could be fostered. 

• Ways were explored by which resources from the United 
Kingdom, Australia, the United States, and other countries 
could be found to support the continuing work of the 
Project in India, especially material resources. 

• These many months also included considerable travel, 
especially throughout Rajasthan, and there were frequent 
trips to New Delhi. 

I left India in early June. 1966, and Roby left a few weeks 
later. It would be grossly unfair, and oversimplified, to say that 
all of the above-mentioned activities and accomplishments began 
or ended with the first three Canadian participants to the PiujecL 
In many cases, things only began in these two early years of the 



ERIC 



177 



Project In other cases, the seeds of promise were only sown, and 
it fell to additional and continuing members of the team to fulfill 
the promises (Buttedahl, 1968). All this occurred in addition to 
completely new initiatives which came from subsequent participants. 
The remaining duration of the project is summarized below. But 
first, it seems appropriate to draw to a close Roby Kidd's 
contribution and dedication to the Rajasthan Project 

During the time that Roby was a Project member, a great 
deal of lobbying, planning, explaining, convincing, and writing took 
place. Roby was very much involved in all these and other 
acti\ities. On the one hand, he was very visible at the centre of 
things because he indeed was a respected and sympathetic leader 
in the field of adult education. On the other hand, Roby's 
contribution was what he did behind the scenes, being supportive, 
giving advice and encouragement to university and government 
persons. He, like all Canadian members of the team, tried to be 
sensitive to the fact that we were visitors, M'orkirg within another 
culture with long traditions. Roby often stated how much he felt 
at home in Rajasthan and in India (Draper, 1982). He has been 
quoted as saying that his most important overseas work was in 
India. His association with the Rajasthan Project and the great 
contribution he and his colleagues made to it influenc-1 other 
programs in India and was intense and heartwarming. While his 
contribution to adult education philosophy and programs there is 
great equally important is that what Roby learned from India 
brought mutual satisfaction and respect 



Beyond the Beginning 

The first two years of the Project were initiating years. The 
Project was conceptualized in a Rajasthan context The initial 
survey acted both as a needs assessment and a way to publicize 
the Project giving it visibility. Through questioning and discussion, 
the undertaking gained momentum and commitment Within 
months, it began to influence University, State and National 
policies. What was especially important was tnat the Project went 
beyond words, and immediately began to apply the principles that 
were being expounded. Hence, team members became involved 
with their Indian colleagues in implementation. For this reason, 
and because needs were expressed and given priorities, the second 
year team became engaged in actual programming and teaching. 

As mentioned previously, Knute Buttedahl arrived in Jaipur 
toward the end of the training program which was completed in 
J une, 1966. He also became the director of th e Proj ect in 
December, 1966, replacing John Friesen after John's resignation 



1S2 



178 



from the University of British Columbia. Knute himself was on 
the staff of the UBC Department of University Extension. Shortly 
after his arrival, he was joined by a second team member, Bill 
Day. Their Phase III of thj Project especially focused on 
demonstration and implementation, and further developed programs 
in the wider community as well as on the campus of the 
University of Rajasthan. Working with many others, they became 
involved in training and demonstration projects through short 
courses, lectures, and evening classes for professionals, as well as 
for the general public. There was a wide range of content and 
subject matter taught, and various teaching techniques and devices 
were demonstrated. 

During this Phase III, both Meena Dandiya and L. R. Shah 
went to Canada as part of the Project, but at different, 
overlapping times. Most of their time was spent at the University 
of British Columbia, but they also travelled to other parts of 
Canada to observe various extension and other educationsil 
activities, and to become further informed with the literature and 
techniques relating to adult learning. Later, in 1968, both were to 
fill key positions and further fulfill the plan of the Project 
Dandiya became director of the Department of Adult Education 
after U. S. Gaur retired. Shah became director- in- charge of the 
Centre for Continuing Education. 

Largely because of the influence of Anil Bordia. the Bikaner 
Adult Education Association was formed in 1966. The Project team 
became more involved with literacy adult education, including some 
rural work. Attempts were made to find land for the proposed 
Centre for Continuing Education and, in fact, the local Mahararu 
was asked to donate property for the Centre. 

Building on the work initiated in Phase II, a 
recommendation was made to establish an M.A, in adult education 
at the University, and a draft proposal to this effect was 
submitted to the University Grants Commission, Further work iu 
evaluation was undertaken; and consultation and training continued, 
especially working with the State Government in measuring the 
results of the State literacy program. Much more was done in 
training administrators, and these and other activities led often to 
radical changes in both policy and practice, setting new patterns 
for literacy work in Rajasthan. That is, instead of focusing on 
crash literacy programs as was the practice, longer and more 
intensive programs directed to fewer adult learners enhanced the 
chances of retaining functional literacy, and in turu, of influendng 
others to want to attain literacy. The Project team also further 
studied the role of the university and colleges in supporting the 
work of the State literacy program. 

During this time, attention was given to building and 



I'jj 



179 



staffing the proposed Centre for Continuing Education, which was 
to become the first of its kind in India, Also, arising directly 
from the 1965 conference in Bhopal, came the formation of the 
Indian University Adult Education Association with some thirty- five 
founding vice-chancellors among its charter members. 

The last phase of the Project, Phase IV. began under the 
direction of Glen Eyford from the Universit>^ of Alberta. Buttedahl 
and Day left India in May and July, 1967, respectively. Eyford 
became involved further in implementing the University's Diploma 
in Adult Education, the first professional program in India, which 
was advertised widely both within India and in South East Asia. 
Indians and others were being trained to work with government, 
industry, voluntary agencies as well as the functions of teachers, 
organizers and administrators. Further work was also done in 
expanding the evening colleges. 

Also in 1968, a Correspondence Study program was created, 
to become the second of its kind in India. Money for the 
program was received from the University Grants Commission, and 
ihe undertaking was supported by the Central Ministry of 
Education and the Ministry of Finance. Initial courses were in 
commerce, leading to a Bachelor of Commerce degree. In August 
of 1968, the Institute for Continuing Education was conceived as a 
broad umbrella organization to administer and co--ordinate adult 
and continuing education activities, as recommended in the 1965 
Report It was to have four wings: adult education extension, 
non-credit wing; the adult education formal program, begirming 
with a Diploma and focusing on adult education as a field of 
specialized study; the Centre for Continuing Education; and the 
Correspondence Study program. 

The final activity to be mentioned here, as part of the 
initial general plan, was to make it possible lor selected Indians to 
travel and study in Canada. Anil Bordia was the third such 
person and he spent many months in Canada, primarily in 
Toronto with Roby Kidd and myself at the Ontario Institute for 
Studies m Education. This was in 1968 and resulted in a number 
of concrete results. Not only did Bordia become more committed 
and knowledgeable about adult education, but during his stay in 
Toronto he, Roby, and I planned to collaborate on a book, which 
was published in 1973 under the title Adult Education in India 
(Bordia, Kidd, Draper, 1973). The three of us also became 
founding members of Sangam Associates (from the Sanskrit word 
"coming together"), whose purpose was to support educational and 
cultural programs between India and Canada. For its first year of 
operation, it contributed to the salary of Om Shrivastava in his 
later initial employment with Dr. Mohan S. Mehta in Udaipur at 
Seva Mandir's non- formal education program in Rajasthan. These 



180 



are only a few examples of the intertwining, sharing, and 
co-operation that arose from the Rajasthan Project Finally, it 
should be noted that throughout the four year Project, a number 
of volunteers from Canada, and one person each from Australia 
and the United States, contributed for short periods of time to 
the Project (Buuedahl, 1968). 



Ripples on a Pond 

How does one assess the collective coniribution of the Rajasthan 
Project? Apart from the specl"^ achievements of individual 
members of the team, of Roby and others, what can one say 
about all aspects of this process of change? How does one 
measure the power and influence of an idea? More than anything 
else, the Project dealt with the implementation, or further 
expansion, of ideas: the concept of lifelong learning; the equality 
of opportunity for learning and education; the role of publically 
supported institutions such as universities, colleges, and libraries in 
sharing knowledge and Information, and in facilitating the learning 
of others; the emphasis on social conscience; and the overall 
concern for the quality of human life and human settlements. Of 
course, many leaders in India were already expounding and 
practicing these ideas. 

Prior to the commencement of the undertaking, what was 
special about the Rajasthan Project was its attempt to 
reconceptualize these ideas, bringing them together in new and 
innovative ways. Extending an awareness for change, and bringing 
people together to share ideas and to listen and plan, were 
essential to the Project The Project did lead to local, regional, 
and national meetings which resulted in some concrete 
developments. The pebble that sent ripples from Jaipur touched 
many parts of India, so that today most universities there have 
extension activities which can in many cases be attributed directly, 
or indirectly, to the innovatiORi fiiR formulated through joint 
interchange in the Project of the Rajasthan/British Columbia 
Universities. Always, however, one must be cautious in making 
diiect cause and effect relationships. In some cases the relationship 
is clear. In other cases it can only be inferred. For instance, the 
February 1976 Seminar on Continuing Education held at the 
University of Pune was directly influenced by the Project and its 
many participants. Mohan S. Mehta, Om Shrivastava, and persons 
from the University Grants Commission took part in this seminar. 

The expression o! ideas was accomplished through events, as 
already noted, but also through writings, in reports, journals, 
speeches, and other publications. The Project and its many team 



181 



members were committed to leadership training; the continuing 
education of all, whether these be illiterate villagers or members 
of professions; tlie effective management of resources; the 
economics of adult education and alternative means for personal 
survival and economic expansion; developing and extending a 
broad- based support system for adult and continuing education; 
meeting the challenges of change at all levels: social, economic, 
cultiual, and political; broad- based evaluation which took into 
account the affective or feeling aspect of personal and communal 
change. 

The Project was indeed eclectic in its usage of content, 
ideas, and people from a wide range of experiences and training. 
For instance, to illustrate the latter point. Project members came 
in conla^ '],x almost all disciplines at the University of 
Rajasthan, , uc ag philosophy, history, statistics, political science, 
library science, sociology, and commerce. Outside the University. 
Project staff worked with members of the educational and business 
communities, governments at all levels, and the University Grants 
Commission. The Project also saw some interesting co-operation 
between individuals and institutions- 
Exchanges of personnel and materials took place between 
India and Canada. The first three Canadian members of the 
Project especially were directly involved in selecting those that 
would visit Canada from India. Additional efforts were made to 
further link adult educators in India with the wider international 
community. 

The Project emphasized the importance of a basic psychology 
of adult education which was more student- centred. It attempted 
to redefine the role of teacher and students, stressing that each 
learns from the other. It especially introduced the idea that apart 
from being a field of practice, adult education also had its own 
particular body of knowledge and was a field of study as well. 
Furthermore, it was not enough to have a knowledge of content; 
adult education was based on the application of that knowledge to 
often unpredictable circumstances. A team approach was encouraged 
for solving problems. As with other chapters in the book, the 
Project touched on raising adult education to professional standing; 
the continuing edu:£-.j:n in the professions; international outreach; 
adult education Btii luntary association; adult education for social 
change; and the roje of the mass media and communication. The 
Project helped support what many adult educators in India were 
already doing. 

Of course, the momentum of some parts of the initial plan 
did not continue equally, for instance, the continuation of the 
graduate studies program which eventually declined. In 1971. the 
Canadian International Development Agency did contract a person 



182 



to undertake an initial evaluation of the Project, and a number of 
limitations were documented, including resources which were not 
forthcoming. In the early part of Phase I, a dedicated Indian 
educator accused the Project of neglecting the poorer sectors of 
society. The Project tried not to do so, and aaempted to 
demonstrate this although more could have been done in this 
regard. 

Yes. the Project went beyond tradition. It encouraged people 
to act critically and responsibly. It was an intervention as well as 
an education experiment Learning and teaching were always at the 
centre of the Project, and it is likely that the Canadian members 
of the team did more learning and less teaching than anyone else 
associated with the program. Certainly, Roby Kidd and other 
members of the Canadian team were never the same as a result 
of their days spent in Rajasthan. Roby expressed this humil^'n^ and 
openness many times. In retrospect, it can be said tJidt the 
Rajasthan experience of 1964-65 subsequently attracted interest and 
response in many Indian States, and even beyond the borders of 
the sub-continenL The Project touched the hearts of many, as did 
Roby himself. 



• The author is grateful to Dr. John K. Friesen for his helpful 
suggestions and comments, adding to the clarity and accuracy of 
the material. 



References 

Bordia. A., Kidd J. R.. & Draper, J. A. (1973). Adult education 
in India: A book of readings. Bombay: Nachiketa 
Publications. 

Buttedahl, K. (1968). Seeds of promise: university adult education 
in Rajasthan. Vancouver: The University of British 
Columbia. Department of University Extension. 

Draper. J. A. (Fd.). (1966). Report of seminar on co-operation and 
planning. Jaipur: University of Rajasthan, Department of 
Adult Education. 

(1982). Dear Roby: The man and the legacy. [J. P. Naik 

Memorial Issue]. Bulletin i. Pune: Indian Institute of 

Education. 127-135. 
Draper. J. A. & Shrivastava, O. P. (1965). Profile of the rural 

primary school teacher in the State of Rapsthan. Jaipur: 

University of Rajasthan. 
Draper. J. A. (1965). An exploratory education survey of the 

Panchayati Raj (development) officers in the Stale of 



183 



Rajastharu Jaipur: University of Rajasthan, Department of 
Adult Education. 

Friesen, J. K. (Ed.)- (1965). Report on the camp conference on 
adult education. Mount Abu, 1965, Jaipur: University of 
Rajasthan. 

Friesen. J. K. & Draper, J. A. (1965). Continuing education at the 
university: A plan for the University of Rajasthan: report of 
a survey January to April, 1965. Jaipur: University of 
Rajasthan. 

Friesen, J. K. & Dutta, S. C. (Eds.). (1965). Report on the 

conference on university adult education, Bhopal, 1965. 

Jaipur: University of Rajasthan. 
Kidd, J. R. (1965). Report of the committee on evening colleges. 

Japipur: University of Rajasthan. 
Kidd, J. R. (1966). Report of the committee on correspondence 

study. Jaipiu:: University of Rajasthan. 
Report of the Indian Education Commission 1964-1966. (1966). 

New Delh:: Ministry of Education, Government of India. 



CHAPTER 11 



THE GROWING EDGE: ADULT EDUCATION'S SOCIAL ROLE 

Evelyn M. Boyd and Somsak Boonyawiroj 

A metaphor, the growing edge, has been chosen to introduce this 
tci. This metaphor, used by Roby in a speech given in 1956 
(Kaud, 1969, p. 48), and again in his book, /fow Adults Learn 
(Kidd, 1973), seems to embody much of Roby's philosophy and 
thought about adult education as social action. He used the phrase 
"the growing edge" to sum up the characteristics of being 
open-minded to fresh ideas, different viewpoints, and differing 
basic assumptions, of being in the vanguard. Although his own 
conception of the parameteis of adult education continued to grow, 
the central role of adult education as responsibility was articulated 
publicly in 1956 (Kidd, 1969, pp. 265-275). This theme of social 
responsibility formed the basis of Roby's actions as well as being 
a key element of his many addresses and speeches over the years. 
We have tried to present Roby's conception of adult education as 
social action in both developed and developing areas of the world, 
drawing upon his many public statements, his writings, interviews 
with adult educators who knew him, plus our own personal 
association with Roby at OISE. However, first we need lo provide 
a backdrop of Roby's philosophy and ideas as they are inseparable 
from his activities. 



Basic Assumptions about the Nature of Human Be:ngs 

Roby had very deep, unshakeable optimism and faith about human 
nature: people are capable of extremes of good and bad, but if 
given an opportunity, people make growth- enhancing choices. He 
believed that often a person's greatest obstacle was not some 
outside factor but rather an internal one. A few selected 
quotations from speeches are representative of his beliefs: 

• ^'^^n nil men. are capable of grace and capacity far bev ^ - 
il estimate of themselves (Kidd, 1%9, n. 283). 



185 



• The human person seeks health, seeks learning, seeks 
wholeness — he has within him a principle of growth with 
which we can work (ICidd, 1959, p. 129). 

• The strongest chains are those with which men fetter 
themselves (ICidd, 1969, pp. 205-206). 

• Those of us of weakest vision can see that our tendency to 
self- denigration, of self-pity, of smallness of spirit, is 
scarcely justified flCidd, 1969, p. 8). 

But Roby was no Pollyanna. Rather, he chose to see the 
glass of water as half full rather than half empty; a situation 
could be viewed as a problem or as an opportunity. He always 
mphasized the positive and the possibility of complex, problematic, 
or seemingly hopeless circumstances. 

Roby urged others to bring a balanced perspective to 
challenges they encountered even as he himself strove to do: "I 
hope that in asking some of the difficult questions we must face 
together I have not torn the wings off the butterfly, that I have 
not lost sight of the whole" (ICidd, 1969, p. 305). "We can do it 
if we will not lose our nerve and will be ourselves, and have a 
storehouse of lo^e and patience, imagination and sense" (Kidd, 
1969, p. 26). "The most perplexing problems are as much the 
result of man's humanity, his science, and his medicine, and his 
rising expectations, as they are the results of man's weakness or 
depravity" (Kidd, 1969, p. 248). 



Basic Assumptions about Learning and Education 

For Roby, living and learning were synonymous and inseparable. 
A typical statement reflecting his conception of learning was made 
in 1959 when he described the human being as a learning animal, 
"free to learn and adapt, to create tools, to change and grow. 
Nothing is so characteristic of man as learning" (Kidd, 1969, p. 
100). "What you are, you have learned. For you, and for 
everyone else, learning is the most fundamental thing about living" 
(Kidd, 1969, p. 193). 

Equally important for Roby were the conditions of learning: 
"Affection is the quality in which constructive learning has its best 
opportunity. Love, not hate or envy, is the condition of learning" 
(Kidd, 1969, p. 120). "Learning of quality happens best when a 
man has some part in choosing what he will learn, when he is 
deeply engaged all through the learning transaction, and when he 
tests, appraises, evaluates his own progress" (KiJd. 19' '05^ 

Rob^ spoke of education n?"^- >r n ine 

illumir--* of .u.. the key uri.^ckin^ *vuat 1 rthwhile in 



2uu 



186 



living, and the key to economic and social progress. He believed 
that every person from childhood to old age has a right to 
lifelong education. Knowledge was seen as the central resource of 
a society, thus rapid change demanded ongoing, continual learning 
as a social responsibility. He pleade"* for re^^vant educational 
opportunities for adult learners, espec^ those \n. ch foster skills 
of learning how to ' sunu.,...y, education and lifelong 

learning for Rob> paramount, and he carried this message 

wherever he went, whenever he wrote and spoke, and in whatever 
he did. 



Social Needs and the Role of Adult Education 

Roby's vision of the role that adult education could and should 
play expanded and grew during the late 1940s and throughout the 
fifties. Beginning in the late fifties, Roby's writings, speeches, and 
personal interactions with the worldwide community of adult 
educators stressed adult education's role as encompassing social 
action. Roby came to view adult education as the core, as central 
to political, economic, cultural, professional, and institutional 
dimensions of societal ch37 ge (Kidd, 1969. p. 237; 1978; 1979). The 
remedial mentality of past adult education programming was far 
too restrictive and myopic in scope. Roby's social conscience and 
educational concerns came to include a population of adults usually 
out of sight and out of mind — prisoners. He was well aware 
that until society and prison administrators viewed prisoners as a 
worthy adult learner population, little or none of their prison 
experience would equip them to handle the complexities of society 
which most would eventually rejoin. Adult educators had a social 
responsibility to enlarge the perspective of legislators, judges, 
correction officials, and the general public. 

Roby exploded simplistic myths and assumptions about social 
change and development He pointed out that raising a society's 
standard of living does not automatically improve life quality. 
Roby warned against thinking that government or experts can do 
everything, against abdicating individual responsibility to them. He 
reminded people that individual citizens can do m.^ny thingj> that 
governments cannc* do for ^^a^ous Aison? 

Ch.nrs vrmn: o; tr^.-^^s ^ broi.. eisp-ctive, ..c did not restrict 
vcvcionnci on. leedcQ in *'lhird World" countries. Rather, 

he ^ .1 that extremely rapid change was occurring in the 

deve...^ed .^ations of North America and Europe. The eight 
months Roby spent in Jamaica during the late fifties made a deep 
impression on him. The time he spent there not only widened his 
international perspective — a perspective which grew with every 



187 



trip abroad — it also gave him a clearer vision of what was 
needed at home. "North America is still a frontier. Many of the 
new problems associated with industrialization, urbanization, and 
technological change we encounter first" (Kidd, 1969, p. 287). And 
again in 1962 he said, "Here, if man is to have a rich life, must 
be worked out the great new social inventions. It is we who live 
on the great social frontier"(Kidd, 1969, p. 235). 

Roby reminded adult educators that functional competency is 
demanded in a highly complex society if its citizens are to play a 
responsible and truly participatory role. Educational efforts are 
needed in such diverse areas as literacy, unemployment^ 
re- employment, vocational training and re- training, managenal 
training, professional continuing education, national and international 
current affairs, religion, leisure, and life quality. He stressed that 
both developed and developing nations share the modem 
phenomenon of the urban city and the challenge of how to build 
decent, humane living conditions in a large city environmenL 



Developing Nations and Adult Education's Social Role 

Roby did his homework: h: read; he attended conferences and 
meetings across Canada and abroad, absorbing everything; he 
taught; he served on committees and commissions; he prepared 
and delivered speeches on a variety of themes. And throughout all 
of his varied professional activities, he met people. He talked to 
people, listened carefully to what they had to say, reflected upon 
these conversations, and shared personal experience and 
perspectives. Roby would mingle with government leaders one 
moment, then strike up conversations with yam planters the nexL 
His travels through print, other people's experiences, and his own 
personal experience and contacts, reaffirmed his basic assumptions 
about learning and human nature, and engendered additional 
beliefs. We have attempted below to summarize beliefs which 
formed the backbone of his ideas concerning adult education's 
social role with reference to developing countries: 

• All people are brothers and sisters and are more alike than 
they are different 

• Face- to- face contact is a crucial first step to internauonal 
understanding, relating, sharing, and respect 

• International joint action often succeeds where going it alone 
fails. 

• Adult education is the vehicle for social advance. 

• An education component is crucial for successful development 
efforts. 



188 



Educational forms cannot be transplanted effectively without 
modification by native people in the recipient country. 
Developing nations need all levels of adult education 
Programming should covf^r the range of human experience 
mcludmg the arts as well as science and applied technology 
Formal education efforts must be accessible to all and not 
be a vehicle to bolster class privilege and power. 

Roby chided citizens of developed nations for their tiny 
contribuUon to development in developing countries. He challenged 
ciuzens to commit 1% of their Gross NaUonal Product to 
developmg countries for the next fifty years (Kidd. 1969. p. 339) 
as a minimal beginning. He viewed international agencies as the 
most effecUve means to aid development, and efforts in educaUon 
and community development as particularly valuable. He warned 
complacent Canadians that Asia's populous countries would soon 
develop sophisUcated military weapons, and a social conscience 
which would no longer accept the gross inv^quality of wealth 
Roby perpetually encouraged people to do more, to do better even 
as he conunually asked himself. "What can I do? How can I be 
helpful?' He challenged adult educators to stretch their social and 
moral horizons, as well as their professional thinking, in terms of 
the role which adult education could play in development efforts 

Roby identified human beings as the only growing 
expandable resource, and stated that "the best form of foreign 
assistance is a man who will share his experience" (Kidd. 1969 p 
223). Training managers and leaders abroad was vitally important 
Also of great importance for Robv was the sending of material 
resources such as books, tools, and equipment He pointed out in 
a 1967 speech (Kidd. 1969. p. 293) that the Ume had come when 
business people, administrators, and public officials around the 
world had finally joined educators in realizing that the most 
producUve form of investment in a country's social and economic 
development was investment in education. 



Adult Education: Some Structures for Social Action 

This concluding section focuses on Roby as a man of action We 
have only attempted to give a brief sketch of his ideas of forms 
wmch adult education could take to meet social needs. 

Anyone who knew Roby would agree that he was an acUon 
man; things happened around Roby usually because he had a 
quiet hand in making them happen. He made himself accessible 
to others, and his humble manner made him approachable Roby 
encouraged and lauded theoreUcal and research efforts, but felt 



189 



that people do not change their daily practices after only studying 
some academic model. Rather, first-hand encounters with 
something they see as useful in their own situation are what have 
lasting impacL 

Roby's greatest contribution appears to have been his ability 
to act as a catalyst, a promoter, an encourager, an introducer. 
Roby functioned something like a honey-bee gathering pollen from 
one type of flower, poller, from another type, and the result was 
not only honey but the cross- fertilization blending as well. An old 
Indian friend and adult education scholar described Roby as a 
"co-ordinator par excellence'' In a March, 1983 interview, he 
illustrated what he meant by saying that Roby "collected 
something from Tanzania and passing it to India and enriching the 
Indian experiment And similarly he must be taking some of the 
ideas from India and going to Malaysia and other places" (Dutta, 
personal communication, 1983). 

Two siructuxes which Roby viewed as important and valuable 
in bringing adult educators together were international organizations 
and international conferences. He was active in both realms. He 
felt very strongly that the major benefit of international 
conferences was that they provided an opportunity for people to 
meet on a one-to-one basis. In a 1960 speech, he lamented that 
we "lack the means to converse with our brothers elsewhere, the 
institutions for working together in common causes and for 
humane objectives" (Kidd, 1969, p. 192). 

Roby would take it upon himself to make sure that certain 
people met certain other people. One typical example of this 
middleman role was when he insisted that a pioneering Indian 
adult educator attend a meeting in Ottawa. This educator recalled 
in a March, 1983 interview that Roby "had the foresight You see, 
he wanted me to meet a man — He knew that I did not know 
him. He said that I must go and see him. There was no 
question of not going, so I had to go. And, you know, that 
meeting of mine with . . . was so useful" (Dutta, personal 
communication, 1983). 

Roby*s convictions, enthusiasm, integrity, universal nature, and 
international stature all enabled him to be an effective "moving 
power." From our experience of Roby, he would be ever on the 
lookout during his foreign travels for adult educators who would 
benefit from studying abroad. He was a moving force behind 
bringing three Thai adult educators to OISE in 1979 so that they 
could pursue doctoral studies. His reception of the three Thai 
educators when they arrived was typical. They presented him with 
a small gift which he received warmly and humbly, and he 
responded by saying that they were the most valuable gift he 
could receive from their country. Roby acknowledged that adult 



190 



educators need certain credentials to be reco^ /ed, and in order 
to have impact on developing countries, and he felt a 
responsiL.l ' to accept and assist such foreip studciits. 

^^obv appreciated a wide spectrum of ^..Mv.cal ideologies yet 
clearly vaiucJ freedom of the individual. was by no means 
apolitical: to th ^onuj y, he was as pcliticii as Marx or Friere. 
However, he cia.- i radically from them because he always 
advocated "orkinp within the existing power structure and system 
for social a.?-Uir:. 

His bciiwl that every adult has the right to lifelong learning 
(Kidd, 1969, p. 330; ICidd & Ray, 1979) is a belief which supports 
increased awareness, knowledge, questioning, and change. New 
knowledge is potentially a powerful avenue of social change. In 
1960 and 1961 speeches Roby remarked: "In many a 'developing* 
country, the road to political power is through community 
development and fundamental education" (KJdd, 1969. p. 339). 

Roby urged adult educators not only to work within existing 
stiucures and institutions, but to also create new ones which 
would be lesponsive to current, and anticipated, future needs and 
problens. If idtras were 'sorrowed, they required alterations to fit 
a new context In a typical speech given in Thailand, he prefaced 
his remarks by saying that only Thais could adapt ideas and 
formats to their own situation. "However, it is useful, I believe, to 
note how other people are also seeking to discharge the same 
kinds of responsibilities and I will produce some examples from 
other places which may stimulate you, not to emulate, but to do 
better" (Kidd. 1979a). 

In this same speech, Roby urged Thai universities to expand 
their leadership roles in nonformal adult education efTorts, both in 
existing forms and in developing new. appropriate structures. He 
especially encoiu:aged universities to provide training and continuing 
education opportunities for a wide range of professional neople 
drawing upon teaching talent beyond university walls. A specific 
service area he saw Thailand providing was offering training in 
adult education for people from neighbouring countries. 

Everywhere and always, Roby expressed his desire to see 
more research in adult education being done. In developing 
countries, he saw value and need for replication studies plus new 
research carried out in the native context from a native 
perspective. A long-time friend and British professsor of literacy 
education remarked in a July. 1981 interview that although Roby 
was himself not a prolific researcher, his critical insight functioned 
"to open doors for you, open windows rather through which you 
can see more clearly than you did before. In a furny sort of 
"vay, I think that Roby KLidd is not so much the onginator of 
research findings himself as the cause whereby truth is found by 



191 



others" (A. Jones, personal communication). 



Summary 

For Roby, adult education was inherently social action because its 
goal was change. Thus he included in the adult education family 
not only people who label themselves adult educators, but also 
scores of others who function as such. Counsellors, trade union 
people, health workers, mass media people, agricultural officers, 
librarians, village leaders, and religious leaders, to name just a 
few, are all engaged in working towards political, social, economic," 
professional, and/or institutional change. All play a central role in 
development efforts which should be supported at both formal and 
nonformal levels. Roby believed that one individual can and does 
make a difference. "Co-operation is a human act, that starts with 
one man facing another man" (Kidd, 1969, p. 218). 

In a 1966 speech (Kidd, 1969, p. 350), Roby spoke of a 
literary character, Henderson, created by the novelist Saul Bellow. 
Henderson was a dreamer- doer, a guy with not only ideas but a 
program. Roby Kidd could also be described as a dreamer- doer, 
both an idea man and a man with a plan, and above all an 
individual adult educate^ with a growing edge who made a 
difference. 



References 

Kidd, J. R. (1969). Education for perspective. (A compilation of 
papers and speeches given by Roby Kidd during the 1950's 
and 1960*s). New Delhi: Indian Adult Education Association. 

(1973). How adults learn. New York: Association Press. 

(1978). An urgency: Adult education in and for development 

Hall. B. L. & Kidd, J. R. (Eds.). Adult learning: A design for 
action. Toronto: Pergamon Press. 

(1979). The learning society. (Address to Tennessee Adult 

Education Association, Fairfield Glade, Tennessee). 

(1979a). The burden of social responsibility and the 

conscience of society. (Address to a conference on Roles and 
Responsibilities of Universities in Adult and Nonformal 
Education). Kanchanburi, Thailand, April 16, 1979). 

Kidd, J. R. & Douglas Ray. (1979). Lifelong education: An 
emerging human right (Paper presented at a seminar at the 
University of British Columbia, April 5, 1979). 



CHAPTER 12 



ROBY KTDD AND UNESCO 

Malcolm Adiseshiah and John Cairns 

J. Roby Kidd was UNESCO's guide, philosopher and friend, 
working as one of its key advisors, and helping to shape 
UNESCO's ideas, programs, and plans for adult education. Over 
many years, he served as the unofficial Canadian expert and 
liaison in adult education to the UNESCO Secretariat even though 
he was not the designated Canadian representative. On his 
frequent visits to Europe, Roby invariably spent a day or so at 
UNESCO discussing, suggesting, and offering advice on issues 
related to the development of UNESCO's programs. These 
informal activities were in some ways £is significant as the more 
formal contributions made through various committees. 

The organization has several international and study tour 
programs. Here, too, Roby played a valuable role by bringing 
adult educators, trade union and co-operative movement leaders, 
and so on, into the orbit of these programs with which they were 
previously unfamiliar. In many ways, he served as an unofficial 
ambassador for UNESCO by encouraging participation in UNESCO 
activities by adult educators and others. 

One of Roby*s most valuable accomplishments was to make 
UNESCO conscious of its responsibility to adult education, and to 
encourage the development of its multi-pronged program of adult 
education. This encompassed the immense undertaking of literacy 
for the developing countries, dealt with remedial and continuing 
education for the industrial nations (with a certain amount of 
spill- over into less fortunate regions of the world), and also 
developed the program of youth education which impinged upon 
all countries. 

While Roby promoted the work of the literacy and other 
work- oriented adult education projects implemented by UNESCO, 
he did not oversee them. Rather, his involvement took the form 
of a continuing moral and professional support in terms of the 
need for, and value of, widespread literacy efTorts. The projects 
received funding from the United Nations Development Programme 



193 



(UNDP) ai a cost of well over one million dollars per project In 
addition it should be noted that, on average, each project was 
supported by in- kind contributions from the host government 
which more than matched the UNDP component 

Roby was a member of the Evaluation Committee which 
was established by UNESCO and UNDP, and played a prominent 
role in its decisions concerning the final Evaluation Report On 
the Evaluation Panel, his main contribution was in his 
non-political stance and his emphasis on the professional and 
educational issues involved. 

The Evaluation Report was as forthright in bringing into the 
open the high cost, the non-replicability, and the wastes of the 
projects as it did the positive contribution to development The 
difficulties of the Evaluation Committee were compounded by the 
fact that many of the issues were political and impinged upon 
internal matters of member states taking part in the literacy 
programs. The conciliatory maimer Roby brought to this 
undertaking was a small reflection of the integrity and courage he 
exhibited in his work in adult education. 

In 1960, the year that Roby chaired the Second World 
Conference of Adult Education in Montreal, there emerged a need 
to identify what UNESCO*s objectives should be in adult 
education. Attention was focused on several important areas: 

(a) To strengthen UNESCO in carrying out its major 
purposes, such as the attempt to eradicate illiteracy, to 
establish a world clearing house for education and to 
promote adult education throughout the world; 

(b) To facilitate regional action (seminars, traiiiing courses, 
etc.) which contribute to UNESCO*s purposes as a 
world organization; 

(c) To increase the possibility of personal contacts between 
people directly responsible for the provision of adult 
education; 

(d) To develop mutual understanding by encouraging 
people from different countries to meet for travel, 
study and discussion in educational settings; 

(e) To encourage the work of UNESCO and of existing 
national and regional centres for research and provision 
of information which are open to people from more 
than one country, and to support the development of 
new centres as necessary; 

(f) To increase the international usefulness and circulation 
of publications, audio- visual material, etc, produced by 
UNESCO, by public and private agencies in Member 
States and by international non- governmental 



2'J8 



194 



organizations (UNESCO, Paris, 1980, pp. 29-30). 

These matters led on to the establishment of a precise UNESCO 
framework for action in the following tuims: 

(1) There should be established within the framework of 
UNESCO a committee with a permanent status and a 
known basis of membership, to continue the work done by 
the Consultative Committee on Adult Education since 1949. 

(2) Within the limits of the possibilities set by the Constitution 
of UNESCO, the Director- General should have regard to 
securing the services, in the first place, of persons with 
specific experience: 

(a) in governmental activities of Member States in the 
field of adult education; 

(b) in major agencies of adult education, e.g. workers* 
education, public and voluntary evening school 
programmes, university extension, residential folk high 
schools, centres, and agencies for the production of the 
instniments and means needed in the development of 
adult education, including those particularly concerned 
with the ma^s media of communication; 

(c) in non- governmental organiiations not included in (b) 
above which demonstrate in their programmes and 
actions a high degree of educational purpose fulness 
and which provide ways through which UNESCO can 
communicate with the peoples of the world; 

(d) in national and regional organizations established to 
encourage co-ordination of effort between different 
adult education agencies. 

(3) The Director- General may wish to invite additional members 
to serve in the proposed committee when particular problems 
or projects are under consideration. 

(4) The committee, in addition to advising UNESCO, should 
have as an essential purpose the further development of 
commimication and exchange of experience between Members 
States and amongst those professionally engaged in adult 
education (UNESCO, Paris, 1980, p, 31). 

Roby's second decisive contribution to his field had to do 
with founding the International Council for Adult Education. This 
agency came into being because a perceived need, and out of 
Roby*s masteriy use of the opportunities open to him at the 



195 



UNESCO Conferences. UNESCO relies heavily on both 
governments and non- governmental agencies, and until the Council 
was set in motion, no professional world-wide NGO existed to 
provide support or liaison for adult education or the world body. 
Many Conference delegates were already active in the membership 
of th world body. Roby's task lay in securing the support of all 
those who were sympathetic to his vision and willing to join him 
in establishing the ICAE 

With Roby leading a movement in favour of a world 
council for adult education (which had been discussed exhaustively 
at Montreal but cast aside), discussions on the subject resumed, 
after hours, at the time of -the Third World Conference on Adult 
Education in Tokyo. 

The issue of the International Council was not part of the 
agenda in Tokyo, and had no direct connection to the scheduled 
Conference program. Officially, Roby was not a member of the 
Canadian delegation. However, he did attend as a representative of 
one of the international NGO's, and while there he called a 
separate meeting one evening to further explore the possibility of 
launching his International Council for Adult Education (ICAE). 
Although the meeting was attended by participants from some 20 
to 25 countries, they did not attend in their official capacity as 
national delegates. Their role was a much more informal one, as 
representatives of adult education organizations within their 
respective countries. 

The general reaction to Roby's proposal was far from 
positive, with only a few participants actively supporting the idea. 
Generally, support was forUicoming from adult educators in North 
America, part of Europe (France and West Gera[iany). and a 
number of developing countries. Some of the Western European 
countries in particular feared that the development of ax\ NGO 
adult education organization would conflict with UNESCO's 
activities in this area. They preferred that priority and resources 
should go to UNESCO. 

Roby was an exceptional man; he never gave anything up 
in despair. If things went wrong in the field of adult education, 
his approach was to try to set them right, to improve them and 
set them back on course. 

Following the Tokyo Conference, Roby returned to Toronto. 
Within the ensuing six to nine months, operating on a shoestring 
and with minimal backing, he launched the International Council. 
This was all the more remarkable in that his discussions in Tokyo 
had not given him a strong basis for support Through his efforts, 
the ICAE did receive assistance from some adult educators and 
others within the UNESCO Secretariat, who were aware of the 
important potential within the concept of the International Council. 



2iu 



196 



As has been noted, Tokyo was not Roby's first exploration 
of the subject; it had been preceded by several years of 
correspondence and visits with adult educators in a number of 
countries. What the UNESCO meeting in Tokyo gave Roby was 
an opportunity to get together with a large group of potential 
participants in his proposed International Council of Adult 
Education. In retrospect, Roby was absolutely right about the fact 
that the non- governmental International Council for Adult 
Education could carry out a large number of activities that were 
difficult for UNESCO to implement through its mainly 
inter- governmental system of operation. 

The Council's early years were not easy. The organization 
survived through sheer faith, hope and conviction on the part of 
Roby Kidd and his colleagues. Malcolm Adiseshiah served as its 
first Chairman, with Roby in the position of Secretary- General. 
Fund-raising activities made it possible for ICAE members to 
meet in Geneva (1973), in Bonn (1974), in Ottawa (1975), in 
Dar^es-Salaam (1976), in Udaipur (1977), and in Helsinki (1978). 
From a Council of 12 associations from 10 coim tries, the 
membership grew to 82 associations from 72 countries. When 
Roby and Malcolm Adiseshiah handed over their responsibilities to 
their successors, Robert Gardiner (Ghana), President, and Budd 
Hall (Canada), Secretary- General, the ICAE had a fully- fledged 
constitution with a General Assembly meeting every three years 
and a Council meeting every year. 

A point worth stressing is that the International Council for 
Adult Education has retained close links with UNESCO over the 
years since its inception. Through the creation of the Council, 
Roby was able to bring together the inter- governmental adult 
education system and programs of UNESCO, and the more 
grass-roots, professionally-oriented activities of the largely 
non~ government associations that comprise the ICAE 

The conflict which so many initially feared between 
UNESCO and the ICAE in fact never developed. What has 
resulted are complementary programs which enhance and reinforce 
one another. This was part of Roby's vision and it has come 
abouL 

Between the Montreal and Tokyo Conferences, Roby headed 
UNESCO's Advisory Committee on Adult Education. Many of the 
ideas and issues he had raised during the preceding years 
ultimately found expression in an International Recommendation on 
Adult Education which was adopted by UNESCO in Nairobi in 
1976. The broad concept of such an International Recommendation 
was one Roby had been promoting for quite some time. 

Finally there was Roby's appointment, by the Director 
General of UNESCO, to Tlie International Jury of UNESCO 



2ii 



197 



which selects the Annual Literacy Awards. Seven members are 
drawn from various regions, and Roby was the representative for 
North America. The Jury meets for about one week each year in 
Paris, France. From its inception in 1970 until his death in 1982, 
Roby brought to the deliberations unrivalled pedagogic expertise in 
evaluating the merits of adult educators. As a teacher and Ph.D. 
supervisor of adult educators and adult education, he brought a 
personal knowledge of adult educators and adult education bodies 
in Africa, Asia, and Latin America. 

He created an invaluable bridge between industrialized and 
developing countries, and was revered and trusted by adult 
educators in every society. He refused to be daunted by political 
or ideological differences, but focused his energies on building a 
consensus^ for development and improvement of adult education in 
ways which would benefit every society. Out of his experience 
and knowledge of the world, with its long history of education, 
Roby was able to perceive and to identify the paths of growth 
i nd development — the development of the human person. 



Reference 

World Conference on Adult Education, Montreal. (1980). Paris: 
UNESCO. 



CHAPTER 13 



THE INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ADULT EDUCATION: 
A HALLMARK OF ACHIEVEMENT IN COMMUNICATION 

Nancy J. Cochrane 

It is a great thing to develop an international council 
for adult education in a world of such vast differences 
and ideologies, and to get people to collaborate . . . 
(Dandiya, personal communication, 1983). 

Reasons for Forming the Council 

Roby believed that an International Council for Adult Education 
could facilitate communication which would bring about social and 
economic independence for a vast number of people. For this 
social change to be effective, part of the process would have to 
take place among the people in power or who were occupying 
important positions. Thus, Roby*s vision encompassed a Council 
that would serve as a co-operative enterprise in development, a 
forum for shared ideas, experiences, and resources. Roby was 
convinced that by establishing the ICAE. the field would gain an 
important profile in the global community, and bring its practical 
problems and concerns to world-wide attention. Also, the ICAE 
would facilitate in utilizing adult education more effectively, 
especially in the developing countries (Kidd, 1975). 

Study pairticipants, whose observations appear in Part 2 of 
this book, were quick to recognize that Roby's cross-cultural and 
co-operative approach to adult education grew out of his intense 
interest in international afTairs. and his fascination with people 
from vastly different backgrounds. A comment once made by 
Margaret Kidd, similarly described Roby as being "fascinated when 
you took an idea and saw it brought to fruition in a different 
way, in a different country, and yet how that particular method — 
say, what was happening in the University of the West Indies — 
would be very inspirational to someone from the University of 
New Guinea" (M. Kidd. personal communication, 1983). 

The actual founding of the Council was to call on all of 



2id 



199 



Roby*s organization- building skills as well as his tenacity in the 
face of challenging odds. Among the reasons for forming the 
Council was the thought that government efforts made through the 
United Nations system could be greatly complemented and 
strengthened by parellel (but not conflicting) activities earned out 
through an international, non- governmental organization. Greater 
emphasis would be placed on a grassroots approach and person to 
person contact For instance, representatives in adult education at 
UNESCO were government appointees. They did not necessanly 
jflect the community's views of adult education nor that 
community's desire to use those local education movements for 
social action. Roby wished to see representatives from local 
organizations in the field rather than just government appointees 
alone. Only in this way could education lead to real development 
that would benefit the greatest number of people. . , 

The official incorporation of the ICAE in 1973 sigmfied a 
remarkable attempt to find a new complementary yet alternative 
channel for promoting international co-operation and exchange 
among widely disparate elements of the world community. While 
the Council continued along the lines of the former World 
Association for Adult Education that had existed between the tv/o 
World Wars the ICAE's sphere of influence extended far beyond 
the older body's handful of countries in Western Europe and 
North America. Indeed, the ICAE, with sturdv roots in the 
developing countries, could truly claim representation in all regions 
of the V orld. 



Strategy for Gaining Support 

Convincing the colleagues whom he wished to interest in the 
project required all of Roby's persuasive powers because not 
everyone was as visionary as he was, and not everyone could 
make the great leap of faith needed to initiate this experiment 
Exploratory talks arcling around the possibility of creating an 
international council were held at the UNESCO World Conference 
on Adult Education, at Montreal in 1960. and on less fonnal 
occasions. All too often, the lengthy and inconclusive discussions 
would end with the matter being shelved as premature. 
Nevertheless, important seeds were sown at those times. 

When Roby became the Chairman of the Second World 
Conference on Adult Education, held in Montreal in 1960, "it was 
almost a springboard for the world movement of Adult Education 
This was an excellent conference which brought together 
people from Russia and the Iron Curtain countries, as well as 
countries from the Caribbean and Africa, and the United States 



214 



200 



tw^^^ P^- P^^- personal communication. 1983). Futhermore. 

1Q& ^^^P^^ Canadian Centennial Commission 

vLJiV V appreaated the powerful impact of bringing in 
hSSSSn °^ ^° decide how things would 

MwJs •u,Sn H°'i^ ^''^n • • • ^V:^ kind of projects that small 

io^^u:Sdon. 1^83)/^ ^^^^^^ 
«,oc ^^'^^ ^^^^ reaching out on the international scene, he 

ThL n"? th".^''^^"^ ^d encouraging them to 

Sf,-.c ^emselves as "Canadian nationalists." These concurrent 

w?c ?hi. '.^.°*^'^u^^°^yu^^^ T^^^^^ ^d resourceful person who 
was able to combine the development of adult education at home 
with Its development abroad. As Margaret Kidd stated. "It is 
iQfio'^^S his real emergence into the international scene in 

•i^' ? the conference m Montreal, paralleled his real Howering 
into - his push for ^.anadian nationality . . ." (M Kidd oersond 
conmiumcation. 1983) Malcolm Adiseshiah agreed with {his view^ 
rhS,t tw .1,°' .^^"^^ education that Roby did for Canada - I 
.-^ foundation on which his international 

and extranauonal work m this area was built" (Adiseshiah 
personal communication. 1983). v^uibCMUdn. 

rnnvinS^H i . "■"Ow^^S number of people were becoming 

fnnnH^^^ ETguments and the situation seemed ripe for 

tounchng the Counal. Increasingly, national associations or boards 
M«nv hln ^?J^^^°r" ^^'^^ ,set up in developing countries. 

JoP^^ji T*?"?? of regional co-operation for the field, and 

»HnU .h'"''? ^d FAO were lookin- more and more to 

adult educauon to assist them in the dissemination of their 
programs, as were a variety of non- governmental organizations. To 
«!!.^^^ r ,^L*ese burgeoning developments. Roby spent the 
?o.?nt?,- ^'''°"f^ ^^^^ consulting with more San fifty 
countnes about the usefulness of an international association in 

tSl'^C??.Te°"had''o'bservli C: ""^^'^""^ ™* 

It was from the developing countries in Asia and 
Atnca that the need for greater co-operation was put 
forward, and these countries were foremost in urging 
. Council be created. The problems and 
possibihues were fully discussed with the UNESCO 
Secretariat (Kidd. 1975). 



Feasibility of the Council 
The way in which the council was formed did not meet with 



21 



201 



total appro^'al, particularly from adult educators in French Canada, 
Scandinavia, Australia, and a handful of other persons who 
questioned the urgency to form a council. In all his travels about 
the world, Roby had continually promoted the idea and sought 
people's support for the Council, but at the Third World 
Conference of UNESCO, held in Tokyo in 1972, he moved into 
higher gear. Further informal talks and meetings took place. These 
were not part of the regular agenda of the conference and were 
carried out separately from the ofTicial sessions. Gordon Selman 
described the proceedings as follows: 

An evening meeting was called and there was 
resistance to there being an international organization 
that led Roby to go from an international association 
where individuals would be members of an 
international body. He made a move from that 
position to there being an International Council, the 
membership of which would be the national adult 
education bodies. There was great concern in the 
discussions in Tokyo that building the international 
body would weaken or make it more difficult for 
national organizations to build. I think tJiat there was 
some concern that people would be so interested in 
an international organization, which might have some 
glamour and appeal, that the efforts in some countries 
to build national associations would weaken. One of 
the things that came out of that was a decision to go 
instead to an international council for adult education, 
the membership base of which would be the national 
adult education bodies rather than individuals (Selman, 
personal communication, 1983). 

Thus the greatest re:>istance to form the Council lay in the 
view that an international non- governmental organization would 
siphon off some of the energy and commitments of national 
educators and their leadership in UNESCO as well as in their 
national adult education associations. For those of this frame of 
mind, the Council simply was not feasible. Some of the dissidents 
were convinced that a much more important focus called for 
strengthening UNESCO's channels for co-ordinating adult education 
programs and their attendant reviews. Thus the ICAE would only 
detract from UNESCO. In the face of such formidable opposition, 
Roby maintained his faith in the ability of the Council to reach 
parts of the globe with activities UNESCO did not usually 
undertake, namely, development education, basic literacy, and 
leadership training at the "grass-roots" level. 



2ib 



202 



Roby*s communication network and persistence, however, were 
two of the most influential factors affecting the course of the 
Council's emergence. He feimiliarized himself with, and nurtured 
through encouragement, the national associations of adult education 
that eventually made up the membeiship of the Council. How did 
he recruit this membership? Claude Touchette had clear 
recollections about the formation of the Council because he was 
the CAAE's representative to the ICAE board: 

He [Roby] had relations all over the world ... It 
began when he was a civil servant in Ottawa and 
continued after tha; when he was on the Social 
Sciences Research Council and Humanities Research 
Council . . . Roby knew people in Tanzania, Kenya, 
Botswana, India, Pakistan, New Zealand, Australia et 
cetera, and it is with those people, and with new 
people coming to meetings, that he created that 
Association. He let the opposition go. He did not 
confront it He said: 'okay, you do not want to come, 
you will come later' (Touchette, personal 
communication, 1983). 

The Council's formation required Roby to build, at a far 
more complex level, the same type of thing he was attempting at 
the community and national levels in Canada, His strategy was 
primarily "that sort of highly personalized building of confidence 
in an idea, building a sense of companionship in working in a 
personal way towards an agreed upon objective (Selman, personal 
communication, 1983). 

The Danes suggested that a feasibility study of the ICAE 
should be implemented prior to its actual and formal realization. 
Particular consideration, they believed, should be given to the 
following dimensions of the organization and its mandate: "There 
should be an investigation, various models of procedure should be 
tried out, or if not tried out then tried on paper and considered 
in terms of cost factors, resource conmiitments, and so on" 
(Selman, personal communication, 1983). Per Himmelstrup and 
others volunteered themselves to be part of this proposed 
investigatory exercise, which was planned in Tokyo. 

Not long after the Tokyo conference, Roby indicated that 
the proposed investigators of "feasibilities" were "founding 
members" of the ICAE, and this sudden translation of roles 
without the completion of a formal feasibility study came as a 
shock to some people. This "hard sell" approach was deplored as 
a typical North American ploy, but the annoyance soon cooled 
down when Roby approached each individual on a one to one 



21/ 



203 



basis. Once the parties concerned realized that he had not 
intended to manipulate or use them as valuable resources for 
achieving his own ends, they quickly supported the meetings and 
activities designed by the Council. Gradually the "charter 
members" saw that tlie time was ripe for such an organization, 
even though the adjectives "high risk" and "gamble" were used to 
describe the monumental task of bringing the ICAE into being. 

Just as there were members in the CAAE who felt that 
their organization was "Roby-run," so did the same concern lurk 
in some minds of the new Council's membership. So persistent 
was this idea with a handful of people that they felt that without 
his leadership and dominance the ICAE would cease to exist 
Balancing this fear, on tne other hand, v/as a different 
understanding of the problem: "Now in many of the enterprises 
that he [Roby] had been rimning, that is really the only way that 
it could function" (Selman, personal communication. 1983). That 
Roby was "probably the most important actor at the international 
level as far as adult education is concerned" (Selman, personal 
communication, 1983) and one of the most prominent Canadian 
adult educators of all time were two important foundation stones 
ui the creation of the Council. Despite the resistance encountered, 
Roby unquestionably enjoyed contacts and confidence in vitally 
important and diverse quarters of the world, which no other 
educator could claim at that time. Once the ICAE was established 
and functioning, opportunities were present for revising important 
aspects of its structure and mandate. In 1979, the Constitution was 
reformed at the annual meeting. On this occasion, the emphasis 
was designed to make possible a more "democratic" institution 
wherein the leadership would not be dominated by one person. In 
efTecu rather than Canadians providing a central force, the 
administrative responsibilities were broadened to engage more 
diverse perspectives at the policy-making and operationsl levels. 

Early funding came from various sources including the 
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA). The Kellogg 
Foundation provided the first three- year grant to get the Council 
firmly established, and this was followed up by continued support 
from CIDA, as well as support from the governments of 
Germany, Iran, and the United Kingdom, and international 
organizations such as OECD, UNESCO, and the Commonwealth 
Secretariat (Kidd, 1975). "It was one of his [Roby's] great abilities 
to attract decision- nakers and high placed people internationally 
into his movements and to raise funds" (Whitehouse, 1983). Prior 
to the actual receipt of such financial suppon, Roby put into the 
Council account the remainder of his personal savings, a stun 
which came to about $12,000. This went towards paying the 
salaries of a small staff and helped the Council to stay in 



204 



operation while awaiting vital grants. At the same time, this 
gesture expressed Roby's faith in the organization and served to 
build confidence on the part of otbf^rs who might be encouraged 
to identify with its underukings. 



Aims and Goals of the Council 

As Roby Kidd saw it, the goal of the Council was to create a 
comprehensive and ongoing development program in contrast to 
disconnected and ad hoc projects. Of paramount importance was 
the need to cultivate diverse adult human resources tiiroughout the 
world, drawing on adult education in order to restructure local 
educational systems. These would be designed so as to meet the 
emerging needs of their respective communities. Tlie Council aimed 
at providing opportunities of "self-help" for adults in many 
nations where adult education facilities had been limited or were 
non-existent, and which would otherwise be missed. 

Where national agencies or boards did not exist, the Council 
undertook to help those countries establish adult education vehicles 
to co-ordinate national leadership activities, and promote regional, 
national, and international exchange of people and ideas. By 
helping countries create networks of information and mutual 
assistance, the ICAE opened and maintained charmels for the 
improvement of adult education and the sharing of experiences 
that might be beneficial to others. Qualified and responsible 
leadership was a key concern of the ICAE, whose members 
endeavoured to render assistance where necessary by sponsoring 
visits by outstanding educationists. This particulsir form of aid had 
considerable impact on young adult and youth movements. 

The Council's objectives also included the designing of new 
curricula and strategies by setting up models to test pilot 
programs. A number of short research projects came under this 
heading, and attention was given to improving methods of project 
and program evaluation; for example, the case study evaluation of 
the primary health education program (Tandon, 1983; personal 
communication, 1983). 

Of course, an important part of any mandate such as the 
ICAE had embarked upon, included strong communication 
measures. Providing adult educators with opportunities for travel, 
exchange and so on between countries and regions, and enabling 
educators of recognized merit to share their insights in those areas 
manifesting the greatest need was only psirt of the Council's work. 
Equally prominent in the Council's overall priorities was 
dissemination of the results of these experiences through such 
media as the journal. Convergence., 



205 



Finally, the Council sought to assist the advancement of 
adult education everywhere in the world by means of planning 
and designing projects, arranging for and assessing required 
leadership training programs, and choosing media strategies. A 
specific strategy adopted by the ICAE was offering direct 
assistance in improving comparative adult education, and to this 
end it published, as its first official piece, an anthology of 
comparative adult education. This publication is directed to 
graduate courses in the field, and is used in at least ten countries 
(Bennett, Kidd and Kulich, 1975). 



Structure of the Council 

Roby realized the importance of establishing a relationship between 
the Council and UNESCO, and also between the Council and 
other bodies: 

The Council has been recognized as a consulting 
member of UNESCO and at the United Nations, and 
has been registered as a non- governmental organization 
at the UN. It eryoys close working relations with 
personnel concerned with adult education at UNESCO, 
the International Labour Organization, the Food and 
Agi :ulture Organization, the World Banlc. The 
Organization for Economic Co-operation and 
Development, and the United Nations Environment 
Program. It also has reciprocal arrangements with some 
thirteen international non- government organizations 
(Kidd, 1975). 

While the ICAE has its headquarters and Administrative 
Council in Canada, most of its officers and the loci of its work 
are in the developing countries. The ICAE sought an international 
slate of representatives, and numbered among its first officers 
were: Malcolm Adiseshiah, fonner Assistant Deputy 
Director- General of UNESCO, Paul Lengrand, outstanding French 
adult educationist, Paul M'haiki of Tanzania and President of 
Kivukoni College, and Edward Hutchinson, President of the 
European Bureau of Adult Education. The ICAE executive consists 
of the bureau of ofilcers who are elected at the General 
Assembly, members of which meet at three year intervals and 
include active and inactive members and leaders of the Council. 
In 1985, the executive was made up of the following members: 
Dame Nita Barrow, President; Robert Gardiner, past President; 
Budd Hall, Secretary- General; Luis Echeverria, Honorary President; 



22u 



206 



Chris Duke, Associate Secretary- General; and Edmund J. Glazer, 
Treasurer. 

Council meetings are held yearly and are combined with an 
educational program. These events have been held in Bonn, 
Germany in 1973; Geneva, SwiUerland in 1974; Ottawa, Canada in 
1975; Dar es Salaam, Tanzania in 1976; Udaipur, India in 1977; 
San Jose, Costa Rica in 1978; Helsinki, Finland in 1979; 
Washington, D.C in 1980; Trinidad, West Indies in 1981; Paris, 
France in 1982; Baghdad, Iraq in 1983; Moscow, USSR in 1984; 
and Buenos Aires, Argentina in 1985. 

The Constitution of the Council allowed for several 
categories of association. The first was that of national boards, 
councils, or national associations of adult education. Representatives 
from countries with an adult education organization, that were able 
to function and communicate effectively with other adult education 
organisations, were eligible to become voting members. Provision 
was made so that a country could have more than one agency 
represented within its membership, and national officials had the 
right to name and to change their representatives. It was expected 
that these would all be distinguished educationists. 

The second category was created for regional associations of 
adult education which acted for more than one country; while the 
third covered individuals who were invited by the Council to sit 
as members because of their particular area of experience and 
expertise. On occasion, too, international non- governmental 
organizations, such as UNESCO. ILO, and FAO that had adult 
education as a significant concern, could be invited to take part in 
meetings and activities but without voting rights. 

When the ICAE was formed in 1973, it had a membership 
of 22 national and regional members. By mid- 1975, forty- five 
eligible regional and national associations or boards of adult 
education had obtained membership in the Council and accepted 
representation on its Board. In 1981 there were 68 national and 
regional member associations representing 88 countries. 

The ICAE had identified six regions of the world in which 
regional secretariats could be created to act as communication and 
dissemination centres: Africa, Asia, Caribbean. Eastern Europe, 
Latin America, and North i^.j:nerica. As of January 1985. there 
were 8 regional members (Africa. Arab States, Asia, Caribbean, 
Europe, Latin America, North America, and South Pacific), 70 
national members, and 1700 friends and subscribers. 

The Council has had a reciprocal arrangement for exchange 
of information and publications, and representation at board 
meetings with more than thineen non- governmental organizations 
including: the Internationa' Congress of University Adult Education, 
the International Council on Correspondence Education, the 



2iL 



207 



International Federation of Librar>- Associations, International 
Institute for Adult Literacy Methods, World Education, World 
Confederation of Organizations for the Teaching Professions (KJdd, 
1975). 

^ The primary responsibility of the ICAE consists in aiding in 
the "development of structures, educational resources, training and 
research to facilitate education all over the world" (Kidd, 1975). 
Three priorities were defined in order to ensure that the Council's 
activities would be geared to practical and relevant needs, and that 
these would be supported and directed at local levels: 
"leadership-training and research in countries of the Third Worid; 
establishment of a regional- based communications network that 
links up and shares the experiences and resources of developed 
and developing coimtries; and building of the intellectual 
foimdations of adult education everywhere" (Kidd, 1975). 



Evaluation of the ICAE's Activities 

Roby Kidd's persistence and clear-headed goals with respect to 
the Council, while at the same time pursuing a host of other 
national and international endeavours, enabled him to bring the 
idea of the ICAE to full fruition. 

And really he had founded it on a shoestring in the 
face of a great deal of indifference and resistance 
. . . The whole thing started to coalesce and come 
together, but in the beginning it was an absolutely 
incredible demonstration of what one man can do with 
enthusiasm and energy and just sheer will-power and 
determination. And his personality led to the contacts; 
this was a critical thing (Cairns, personal 
communication, 1983). 

Abdelwahid Yousif, one of the support persons for the 
ICAE while he was in Toronto, had this to say about Roby's 
abilities to lead the ICAE: 

He never lost sight of the main course, the objective 
that was to create a healthy society based on 
understanding, co-o^^eration and respect for human 
beings no matter wi.at colour or creed they are . . . 
The man was so large, large in every respect His gift 
was in getting people together and to make them 
work together. That was fantastic You must have 
known about his contacts in China, Soviet Union, and 



222 



208 



his cx)ncem for the Eastern European countries to be 
represented in the International Council for Adult 
Education (Yousif, personal communication, 1983). 

In September 1979, the ICAE approached the Canadian 
International Development Agency (CIDA) for funds to conduct an 
evaluation of its activities in developing countries, with particular 
focus on the 1976-1979 period. Alan Etherington was co-ordinator 
and a team of regional specialists were contacted to conduct 
regional analyses: Abdelwahid Yousif, Sudan; Carlos Beca, Chile; 
and Nitish De, India. Alan Thomas was an "external critic," and 
Henry Sissons, a former senior business executive, carried out an 
administrative assessment (Healey, 1981). 

The principle aims of the evaluation were to: 

(1) Describe and, where possible, measure the achievements of 
the ICAE to date against its declared and implied goals; 

(2) Identify the strengths and weaknesses of the ICAE; 

(3) Identify future program directions; 

(4) Examine the administrative and decision- making structures 
for the pursuit of present and future programs; 

(5) Provide an opportunity for participation by the ICAE 
Executive, national associations, regional associations and 
groupings, and the staff in the assessment of past programs 
and determination of future directions (Healey, 1981). 

Several methods were used to carry out the evaluation. A 
series of interviews was arranged in which 175 adult educators 
took part The majority of these participants came mainly from 
Africa, Asia, the Caribbean and Latin America. On a broader 
base, 1,650 people throughout the world who were felt to have 
had a reasonable amount of contact with the ICAE since 1976 
were contacted for a mail survey. Of this number, 285, or 17 per 
cent responded. Finally, a review of files, publications and other 
materials at the Council were examined (Healey, 1981). 

The results of the evaluation demonstrated that the ICAE 
had been particularly successful in the following activities: 

(1) Good management and financial accounting procedures; 



2i4 



209 



(2) Communications: The mulii- lingual ICAE journal 
Convergence, and other publications seemed to be meeting a 
real need amongst adult educators; 

(3) Intra- TTiird World Links: Tlie ICAE was seen as being 
especially helpful in linking up Africans. Latin Americans, 
and people working m the Third World nations; 

(4) Legitimating grass-roots work: The fact that \he ICAE was 
able to attract the support of such international figures as 
Julius Nyerere. Robert Gardiner, and Luis Echevenna was 
seen as very important in legitimating the often isolated 
grass-roots work in which adult educators were engaged; 

(5) The ICAE was credited with having played a key role in 
either starting, or significantly strengthening, regional adult 
education sttuctures in Africa (AAEA). Asia and South 
(CEALD- ^"^^^^ (CARCAE). Latin AmeriS 

(6) Attracting more funds to adult education: The ICAE was 
able to stimulate an increase in the attention paid by UN 
and bi- lateral agencies to adult education. In its own case 
It increased its financial support from three sources in 1973 
to over 40 sources in 1980 (Healey. 1981). 

Some areas where ICAE work revealed room for 
improvement were noted. Two findings sought more active 
education work with the poor, and improved capacity in Council 
publication in French and Spanish. Other points covered the need 
for more representation of socialist members and. inevitably 
emphasized the importance of improving operating resources. 

Summary 

The Council exists as a tangible expression of Roby's vision and 

A?wo;i/"^?VA°;°''^'"^^r^ efforts of many persons throughout 
Jhe wor d. The ICAE grew from its beginnings in Roby's office at 
Ulbb to become an international meeting place for adult 
educations national and international representatives That it 
succeedsd can only be judged by those experts in the field who 
rifrfr"" /""^ "'^ outreach. "By about 1980. the Council was a 
major force on the whole world in terms of adult education 
literacy, education for co-operatives, workers* education, education 



2^4 



210 



for peace, et cetera" (Cairns, personal communication, 1983). 

But the achievement of the ICAE was only made possible 
by the foundation for success that Roby had painstakingly laid 
down for himself and for others in Canada. His "extra- national 
work in this area was built from his home ground" (Adiseshiah, 
personal communication, 1983). Not only had he managed to 
recruit good leaders in adult education in Canada, but many 
high-ranking international figures attribute some of their own 
expanded role in education to Roby's influence: "I think that his 
influence on me, primarily, was that he brought me back into the 
adult education field, internationally ..." (Adiseshiah, personal 
communication, 1983). 

The formation of the Council, and the successful execuuon 
of its objectives for 9 years until Roby's death and thereafter, is 
a monument of achievement in communication. In the end, it 
became an organization- run project rather than a Roby- run 
project, and in a letter to his colleagues dated July 16, 1974, there 
is evidence that Roby's efforts alone could not make the Council 
function: "The International Council for Adult Education is moving 
ahead but is taking far more time and more talent than I really 
have. . . . still it is growing ..." (Kidd, personal communication. 
1974). 

While reflecting on Roby's own role intemauonally. Budd 
Hall had this to say: 

I think that in the field of adult eduction and in 
some other broader international aspect, Canada's part 
in the world has become much better understood and 
has been augmented a great deal by his work over 
the years . . . and his work on behalf of adult 
education and international development and various 
things has really stood Canada in very good stead in 
all kinds of places; that's another legacy, that of 
course will continue on (Hall, personal communication, 
1983). 

There were countless spin-offs from ICAE's activities. Many 
foreign students participated in research at the Council office in 
Toronto. By having the headquarters located in Toronto, OISE was 
"visited weekly by educationists from all over the worid, and . . . 
this has also resulted in OISE making a significant contribution to 
other universities and countries" (Kidd, personal communication, 

1978). . „^ „ 

Malcolm Adiseshiah supported this view; There are hurally 
hundreds, if not thousands, of scholars all over the worid who 
owe their knowledge of adult education, their passion for adult 



education, to Roby KJdd" (personal communication, 1983). 

Finally, Roby wrote the following statement in summing up 
the Council's achievements and, although he was addressing the 
issue in 1975, the words adequately expressed the outcome of the 
Council's activities at the time of his death: 

The Council is a form of Canadian enterprise, but is 
already a nerve-centre and communication link 
between committed people all over the world who are 
co-operating for the advancement of education for the 
thoiisand million who have been denied, and the other 
millions who must continue to learn. Stated most 
succinctly, it is education for freedom and for social 
jusUce (Kidd, 1975). 



References 

Bennett, C, Kidd, J. R., & Kulich, J. (1975). Comparative studies 
in adult eiucation: An anthology, Syracuse: Syracuse 
University. 

Healey, P. (1981). The International Council for Adult Education 

Evaluation — A summary. Toronto: The Ontario Institute for 

Studies in Education. 
Kidd, J. R. (1975). Development means human development: The 

International Courxil for Adult Education. Canadian and 

international education. 4. 2. 
Tandon, R. (1983). Our own health: Report of the study on the 

role of adult education in community involvement in primary 

health care. Toronto: International Council for Adult 

Education. 



2^6 



PART TWO 

A CROSS-CULTURAL COMPARISON OF J. R. KIDD'S 
CONTRIBUTION TO ADULT EDUCATION 
NANCY J. COCHRANE 



2^/ 



INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY 



In January 1983 I received a two-year grant from the Social 
Sciences Research Council of Canada to conduct a study of the 
impact of Roby Kidd's contribution to the field of adult education 
in Canada and abroad. The purpose was to obtain a historical, 
biographical, and analytical review of Roby's work that pertained 
to the following themes: organization development, scope of 
contribution, adult learning theory, adult education practice, major 
aims and goals, cross-cultural approach, personal qualities/character, 
personal influence/impact, and overall contribution. These nine 
themes were identified in a pilot study conducted in 1981 prior to 
Roby's death, and represented some of the most important features 
of his work. These same themes were addressed in the 
questionnaire and personal interview survey, which was completed 
on 82 study participants. 

The survey compare ^^ ' contribution to adult education 
in India and in Canada. indian group of participants was 

selected for cross-cultural omparison with a Canadian group 
because Roby*s work in India provided an example of his 
international outreach. In 1965-1966, Roby was one of four 
consultants who assisted in the development of the Department of 
Adult Education at the University of Rasjasthan in Jaipur. Until 
his death, he cultivated important relationships with Indian 
educators who helped him shape a philosophy and an approach to 
comparative methods in adult education (Kidd, 1975). Roby's work 
in India served as a stepping-stone for further activity on the 
international scene, although it was not his first international 
project His one- year consultancy term at the University of West 
Indies marked the beginning of his work in a developing country. 

One of Roby's most extensive efTorts in a developing 
country were in IncQa, and this led to further work abroad. The 
Indian participants as a group believed that Roby*s contacts and 
experiences in the Rajasthan Project may have laid the foimdation 
on which he then built structures of adult eduction in many other 
cultures. Participants noted how Roby's maturing view of the goals 
of adult education was reflected in his writings about India, 
specifically his focus upon the goal of social change as a product 
of individual and group awareness. Participants also noted how he 



228 



216 



drew frequently from the writings of Gandhi, a figure he greatly 
respected for his non-violent, peav^emaking actions. 

Roby's writings mirrored a steadily increasing focus on adult 
education for social change, both during and following his 
one- year stay in India (KJdd. 1967. 1968, 1969, 1974). Reflecting 
upon his experiences there, he said in an interview just three days 
before his death: "There's so much in the ethos of India which 
is important in the work we're doing, the kind of life that we're 
trying to live" (Kidd, personal communication, March 17, 1982). 
There is little doubt that his work on the Rajasthan Project 
marked a turning point in his career. 

In that same interview on March 17, 1982, Roby was asked 
where he felt most at home, and he named two places: India, 
which represented the vigour of life and the potential for 
educational opportunities for the masses; and Gibsons (previously 
Gibson's Landing) in British Columbia, a small nu-al community 
which greatly influenced him as a young man. Roby also 
described his attachment to one Indian community: "We felt very 
much at home in Jaipur, and for at least 10 years afterwards, if 
we were asked where we lived, if we weren't thinking we'd say 
Jaipur. It felt like home to us ... " (Kidd, personal 
communication, March 17, 1982). Roby gave two criteria for 
selecting the places where he felt most at home: "where you had 
learned a lot" and "where you'd really put your sweat and blood 
in" (Kidd, personal communication, March 17, 1982). 

The Study Design 

The study combined both qualitative and quantitative methods 
because neither approach alone could satisfy the study objectives. 
Semi- structured interviews and a multiple- choice questionnaire were 
used to address the diverse facets of Roby's work. The 82 
participants were interviewed in major cities in Canada and India, 
and at the international UNESCO headquarters in Paris. France. 
While the interviews in India provided one example of Roby's 
work in the developing countries, the interviews at UNESCO 
headquarters supplied an overview of his international activities. 

Other sources of data included: preliminary interviews 
conducted in 1981 in Western Europe; field notes from site visits 
to organizations where Roby had worked; his writings, speeches, 
personal correspondence, and daily diaries; archival documents; and 
meetings with two other persons who were conducting oral 
histories in the field of adult education. 

The design and findings of the questionnaire are found in 
Appendices 1 and 2. 



217 



The Research Participants 

A list of study participants was compiled through consultation with 
experts in adult education, Roby's spouse and close friends, and 
with Roby himself prior to his death. Adult education colleagues 
and students, and close friends of Roby who had known him for 
a minimum of six months were selected. 

Of the 82 study participants, 22 were Indian, 43 were 
Canadian. 8 were officials at UNESCO in Paris. France, and 9 
were pilot participants primarily from Western Europe and 
England. Only 50 of the 82 study participants (16 Indian. 29 
Canadian. 5 UNESCO) completed a questionnaire because not all 
participants had sufficient familiarity with all areas of inquiry. 
Seventy- three participants had personal interviews; nine participants 
had telephone interviews due to the impracticality of arranging a 
personal interview. 

Participants agreed to complete a written consent form which 
outlined the intended use of questionnaire and interview 
information obtained from them. Whenever possible, consent was 
obtained from the participants to reveal their identities with the 
interview quotations which appear in this book. These statements 
were kept anonymous whenever the participants had requested it 
or indicated that they were offering confidential information. This 
was relevant in only a few cases. Transcriptions from the 
interviews were sent to the participants for vsdidation prior to 
being used and quoted in this text, but not all participants 
responded to the validation procedure. 

The personal, tape-recorded interviews varied from one and 
one- half to four hours in length, which depended upon the 
individual preferences of the participants and how much they had 
to say. 



References 

Kidd, J. R. (1967). Functional literacy and international 
development: A study of Canadian capability to assist with 
the World Campaign to Eradicate Illiteracy. Toronto: Ontario 
Institute for Studies in Education, Dept of Adult Education. 

(1968). Target - Eight hundred million. Bridging the gap 

(functional literacy). Tokyo: Asian Broadcasting Union. 23-37. 

(1969). Education for perspective. New Delhi: Indian Adult 

Education Association; Toronto: Peter Martin. 

(1974). Whilst time is burning: A report on education for 

development. Ottawa: International Development Research 
Centre. 



23 u 



dd, J. R. (1975). Comparative adult education: The first decade. 

In Bennett, C, Kidd, J. R., and Kulich, J. (Eds.). 

Comparative studies in adult education: An anthology, 

Syracuse, New York: Syracuse University, Publications in 

Continuing Education. 12. 
— (1982, March 17). Transcribed text from an interview with 

Roby Kidd conducted by W. Barnard at the Ontario 

Institute for Studies in Education, Toronto. (To be obtained 

from W. Barnard or N. Cochrane). 



231 



CHAPTER 14 



THE LNTERVIEW FINDINGS: MAJOR THEMES 

The following selections from the interview findings represent a 

small portion of the data, and ihey are intended to represent the 

major tliemes of the interviews. 

The first theme, Roby's strategy and motivation, was 

identified during the study as an additional area which interested 

the participants* and it provides a context for the rest of the 
findings. 



Theme I: Strategy and Motivation 

Chapter One provides a brief description of Roby's early 
experiences. Both sisters' accounts show how people and events 
helped to shape Roby's system of values. One sister, Mary 
Mclvor, wrote in a letter to me in 1983 that she felt Roby was 
not driven to become successful, he did not have a large ego, nor 
did he aspire to become great She believed that he just did what 
he thought was important because someone had to do it 

Chapter Two presents the Gibsons experience, and furnishes 
us with additional clues to Roby's motivations. At the Baptist 
camp, Roby felt committed to become a missionary in India. He 
fulfilled that dream, not in the traditional sense of workinj as a 
missionary, but by spreading the "gospel" of adult education as a 
social movement So indeed, it was a gospel from a different 
pulpit 

Roby took a very practical and active approach to his 
personal mission. For instance, when he began his first job at the 
YMCA, his purpose was to help people, and to test out what he 
already knew about program development: "I had a chance to 
specialize in adult program[niingj in the YMCA, and to begin to 
test out what little I knew about how to design programs, and 
maintain an environment for learning, and utilize films and the 
different media that were beginning to become available" (Kidd, 
personal communication, 1981). 

Every six months Roby took time to reflect upon and 



232 



220 



evaluate his achievements: "One thing I was going through, and I 
guess am still going through, every six months I would take at 
least a day or a day and a half to reflect on where I stood with 
respect to the world ..." (Kidd, personal communication, 1981). 

Roby's strategy and motivation may have been influenced by 
his early childhood education in the family, his formative years in 
Gibson's Landing, his first working experiences in the YMCA, and 
most of all his incidental experiences with people. Roby had 
learned his strategies from close friends and mentors, and was 
adept ai making dungs happen very quickly. He was an active 
observer of people and he tried to leam from them and about 
their potential (ICidd, personal communicaiton, 1981). 

Roby studied the experiences of others seriously. Because he 
could listen and remember well, he proved to be a sensitive 
teacher of adults. But his classroom was the world. His focus was 
not restricted to the laboratory of his home town or home 
cotmtry. He sought to build an international community. ITiis 
quality made him much more than a great teacher. 

Most of the study participants did not believe that Roby 
had a planned strategy for his projects. They credited him for 
being skillful at seizing the opportunities of the moment, but this 
did not mean that he was a careful strategist However, they 
recognized that he had organized a world-wide communication 
network of educators, the ICAE, which testifies to the success of 
his persistence and hard work. 

Roby's strategy and motivation were oriented toward social 
action. Many participants described Roby as an idea man or 
"rain- maker" who put his ideas into effective action. "He was a 
mover, motivator, and doer" (Markle, personal communication, 
1983). This made him more than a theorist and much more than 
an idealist The consistent motivation for and goal of Roby's work 
was social change through education. Roby saw the role of adult 
education as a voice for persons who were in greatest need of 
education, and yet were the most removed from access to it This 
was apparent in his contribution to the Report to tht Solicitor 
General Concerning the Educational Program of the Canadian 
Corrections System (Thomas et al, 1979). 

What was extraordinary about Roby was the amount of 
work that he accomplished, because most of it was done during 
the last thirty years of his life. His use of time was economical 
and intense, which may have been affected by his health 
problems. He could never be sure that his health would permit 
him a long life. 

What was the purpose of forming an international 
community? Gower Markle believed that: "He [Roby] perceived 
the relevance of Adult Education tc all adults for resolving social. 



2 3 3 



221 



economic, and political problems on both personal and group 
levels. He liked and believed in people, and believed that the 
human condition could be improved through co-operation and 
sharing and learning" (personal communication, 1983). 

An understanding of Roby Kidd's strategy may reveal a 
process that other adult educators may leam. However, given the 
complex interplay of Roby*s personality, his indefatigable energies, 
and his vision of adult education, this may prove no easy task. 

A few participa)its described Roby as "a-political." "Political 
issues were not Roby's interest" (Adiseshiah, personal 
communication, 1983). Contrary to this a larger number of persons 
believed that the underlying issue^ for him was always political 
change. Political change for Roby meant the balancing of power 
among people. Education was for people, by people, and in the 
interests of equalizing resources among people. "He fought for 
freedom of expression and non-political interference" (Stinson. 
personal communication, 1983). 



Theme II: Organization Development 

There was consensus among members of this study that Roby had 
skilfully facilitated communication among persons within 
organizations; for example, by arranging conferences and discussion 
forums, linking people with resources, helping to establish new 
premises and policies, providing contact between organizations 
sharing common concerns nationally and internationally and, 
stimulating action through ongoing teamwork. 

Roby was a catalyst, an expert advisor for the development 
of adult education throughout the world. Gower Markle described 
Roby's organizational approach as follows: "He initiated proposals, 
stimulated action, and was a catalyst in the development of 
change." This required hard work, often with the burden of 
raising funds for the good ideas he or others had developed. To 
quote one participant, "He built the machinery which he then 
gladly allowed, or rather encouraged, others to operate" (Griffith, 
personal communication, 1983). He could step aside after he had 
promoted a good idea so that others could do something with iL 
In fact, the stepping aside after the machinery was built, so that 
others could operate it was a quality for which Roby was both 
criticized and praised. While the stepping aside was necessary so 
that he could go on to other projects, some participants saw this 
as a neglect of home operations. 

In India, his greatest impact on organizational development 
was described by Om Shrivastava: "Dr. Kidd made connections of 
many fields with adult education. It was he who was able to 



suggest the university's involvement in the continuing education of 
professionals in India" (personal communication, 1983). 

In summary, Roby's strengths in an organization were 
primarily his idea- building and his initiation of action. A few 
participants believed that his weakness was in being a marginal 
administrator, because he often did not have time for 
administrative details, and he had to delegate these to other 
people. Roby demonstrated a great deal of trust and good 
judgment in delegating his tasks to other people. 



Theme III: Scope of Contribution 

The s ^^e of Roby's contribution may be understood best through 
his own example. He sought to have a full and rich experience 
as an adult learner. He never stopped learning, and he never 
stopped encouraging it around him. Roby's scope was considered 
to be the most far reaching of any adult educator in the world 
One way of assessing him is to examine the impact of his 
approach upon other educators' meanings of adult education: "He 
broadened the view of p.Jult education, particularly in the informal 
areas. He saw relationsnips with the arts, culture, ei cetera" 
(Stinson, personal communication, 1983). 

His scope was imbued with a philosophy of "education for 
all" on an international scale. His theory of lifelong education was 
very broad: "While there are fev^ consistent examples, the notion 
of learning that is coterminous with living, that starts with birth 
and is terniinated only when the heart and mind cease to 
function, th?s notion is now being accepted all over the world" 
(Kidd. 1973). 

Roby renounced a definition of adult education since he 
believed its meaning would be interpreted and applied differently 
for each person. Rather than defining adult education per se, his 
writing and speaking constantly increased the scope of thinking 
about adult education. 

What was included in this scope? "All aspects of human 
activity ~ physical, moral, cultural, social, political, and spiritual of 
all ages, religions, and nationalities" (Singh. personal 
communication, 1983). Thus the meaning of learning included 
everything that enabled an individual to live a full life. "He 
perceived the relevance of adult education to oil adults, for solving 
social, economic, and political problems, on both personal and 
group levels" (Markle, personal communication, 1983). 

Countless examples were cited by participants whereby Roby 
had broadened the scope of specific organizations, by inviting 
labour unions, businessmen, artists, the school system through 



2^3 



223 



Ministries of Education, and prison officials, to meet around 
common issues concerning the rights of learners and how these 
could best be realized. To promote adult education he employed a 
broad spectrum of media, from literature to theatre, sports, 
individual and group encounters, and any activity where adults 
congregated. 



Theme IV: Adult Learning Theory 

One of Roby's books. Whilst Time is Burning, represented a 
turning point in his attention to social change and its urgency in 
tiie developing countries (Dutta, personal communication, 1983). 
How Adults Learn was cited by the majority of participants as 
the most important contribution to the Tield of adult education 
because it synthesized isolated theory and translated it for 
practitioners. Also it "popularized adult learning theory of the 
time" and provided a compendium of known learning theories 
(Friesen, personal communication, 1983). Participants often spoke 
about the role of Roby's writings and speeches, and about the 
dialectical relationship between his complementary roles as 
practitioner and scholar; they found him consistent in his theories 
and practices. 

Once again the extent of Roby's outreach in his work was 
shown in the translations of his book How Adults Learn from 
English into Hindi in 1966, French in 1966, Arabic in 1978 
German in 1979, and Romanian in 1981. 

There were a variety of opinions expressed about Roby's 
theory- building contribution: While some participants observed that 
he had educated his colleagues about tiie process of how adults 
learn, with an emphasis on "humanism" (Selman, personal 
communication, 1983), others believed that he primarily "opened up 
{Jo^^^^tr (Stinson, personal communication, 

1983). However, the majority view was best expressed by these 
^vo statements: "He was more of a synthesizer rather than a 
developer of learning theory, except for comparative methodology 
which he helped to develop" (Buttedahl, personal communication 
1983); and he was an activist and a catalyst, not a theoretician" 
(Caims, personal communication, 1983). 

Although Roby may not have initiated many new theories 
he introduced and organized a way of observing how theory was 
generated. For example, "he led in the direction of mathetics " 
which IS the study of how adults learn (Selman, personal 
communication, 1983). Also, he was considered by Buttedahl to 
have understood the "relationship of 'continuous learning* or 
lifelong learning' to life itself as a development process - I think 



224 



Roby grasped this before it was well articulated and this is why, 
perhaps, he was so eclectic" (personal communication, 1983). 

In addition, "he demonstrated the value of pragmatic 
methodology and the role of institutional and oiganisLational 
support systems, something most theorists ignore" (Cairns, personal 
communication, 1983). His practical example was found in his 
writings "which brought together a lot of isolated theory and 
translated it for adult educators" (Davie, personal communication, 
1 98 3). There is no doubt that he " was a pioneer in this area " 
(Selman. personal communication. 1983). 



Theme V: Practice of Adult Education 

Roby had many roles in his practice of adult education; he was 
educator, administrator, learner, and he was often described as an 
evangelisL He had a special talent for mobilizing people and 
facilitating communication among them. He was viewed as an 
excellent planner, an avid reader who knew his subject well, and 
someone who could put his knowledge into very effective practice 
(Singh, personal communication, 1983). In short he was described 
as a living message of his teachings. 

His ways of working were inspiring to many participants, 
because he could "move mountains" that otherwise seemed 
impossible to most persons. As an initiator and motivator of 
people he was able to accomplish a great deal in a relatively 
short lifetime, and it may be that he was, in fact, driven by what 
he perceived as his mission, which caused him to become an 
extraordinary achiever (Mehta, personal communication, 1983). 

As a teacher, his students described him as drawing from 
the experience of group members rather than lecturing. His 
presentations showed engaging and effective adult education, by 
using a learner- centred teaching approach, by never forcing a 
learner, and by providing many avenues from which a learner 
could choose (Shrivastava, Sachdev, personal communication, 1983). 
Roby*s strategies as a practitioner were complex but clearly visible. 
He led conferences creatively, flexibly, and with imagination. "He 
understood how to focus the resources of the individual, 
organization, or *commimity* at the appropriate level to be 
effective; for example, at national and international conferences" 
(Markle, personal communication, 1983). "He mediated resources, 
and he produced ideas and contacts among people" (Buttedahl, 
personal communication, 1983). Roby could motivate people into 
projects, and gave them support for continuing them; he kept pace 
with their development As a scholar and teacher he was 
described as "firmly based, but eclectic and practical." "He did 



2M 



225 



not let dogma impede action" (Markle. personal communication. 
1983). 

Roby's greatest and most successful expression as an effective 
practitioner in adult education was in founding the International 
Council for Adult Education. "What could be a greater 
demonstration of applying adult education on a world scale?" 
(Cairns, personal communication, 1983). 

Above all, his momentum showed a great commitment to a 
cause, which is consistent with a man with a missioa 



Theme VI: Aims and Goals 

This theme overlaps the first, that of motivation, but it was meant 
to assess his political sdms for adult education. Many participants 
referred to Roby's meaning and philosophy of adult education with 
regard to this theme. His philosophy of seeking equality of 
opportunity for the disadvantaged through education was a 
recurring motif among the participants' responses. Roby was 
repeatedly perceived as a visionary with respect to his goals for 
adult education. One participant described this well: "He had a 
broad vision of a new world through adult education. He had 
ideas about knowledge and its dissemination, and a deep 
understanding of the vital world issues. He had concern for the 
world and its people, especially those of the Third World" 
(Wijetunga. personal communication. 1983). 

After 1965. Roby chaimelled his Canadian outlook lo other 
countries. This is most evident, for example, in his participation in 
the overseas UNESCO and ICAE functions. 

One could interpret the following statement as being Roby's 
goal: "Roby did not look for a comfortable living. He was 
forever the courageous, often audacious explorer, racing after the 
fleeing boundaries of adult education knowledge" (Friesen. personal 
communication. 1983) 

This new world, brought about by adult education, could be 
envisioned by Roby as an outcome of an international exchange of 
knowledge, that could result in greater human consciousness. While 
this seemed to some participants to be ideal, to others it meant 
that Roby could shape his vision into focused action. A 
philosophy which was believed by one participant to underlie 
Roby's vision was based on Roby's view of human beings and 
their innate capacities: "Roby viewed the human being through 
the eyes of an evolutionist Man is capable cf change given love 
and trust in the direction of good men" (Kabwasa. personal 
communication. 1983). 

Adult education. Roby believed, was a humanistir means for 



238 



226 



attaining wisdom and truth. Such qualities could lead to world 

understanding and peace. Several participants disputed whether Uiis 

was a realistic association even though they trusted Roby's 
sincerity. 



Theme VII; Cross- Cultural Approach 

Roby's personal qualities affected the cross-cultural approach to his 
worL He had a natural ability to fit into and be sensitive to the 
nuances of each cultural group with whom he interacted, and they 
were at least 83 in number! Apan from this extensive outreach in 
international organizations, Roby represented a "Canadian 
perspective." One cannot overestimate the influence of that role 
overseas, because he represented a Canadian view of the world 
that was both sensitive and generous. While this image may 
sometimes have been myopic to the intricacies of Western 
European culture — for example, the importance of language and 
being able to master at least one language other than one's native 
tongue (Bataille, personal communication, 1983), his establishment of 
the first international program in comparative adult education in 
Canada was a demonstration of an understanding of cultures. His 
wise use of resources in the developing countries was evident from 
his first involvement in a UNESCO program in 1946. 

The participants generally agreed that Roby's establishment 
of the International Coimcil for Adult Education best exemplified 
his cross-cultural and co-operative approach to adult education. 
The history of this organization is full of examples of Roby's 
"extraordinary ability to work with representatives of different 
races, cultures, and political systems for effective development of 
adult education, and to support programs in terms of their needs" 
(Cairns, personal communication, 1983). 

In spite of many obstacles and diversities of needs among 
the member countries, Roby managed to establish the ICAE by 
persuading people from opposing camps to join this voluntary, 
non- governmental organization. By doing so he made adult 
education a "world problem" or concern, and brought people 
together in dialogue about the common problems facing adult 
education systems in action (Mehta, personal communication, 1983). 

He was known as a great organizer because he could absorb 
cultural differences, and see a commonality among divergent 
vie>\T>oints. He was described by Shiva Dutta as a "imiversal man 
who could bring people from opposing camps together" (personal 
communication, 1983). Roby was successful in developing a 
methodology and program for comparative cross-cultural studies in 
edult education. He acquired the sensitivity to accomplish this task 



227 



first on Canadian ground, when he acted in the capacity of 
consultant in Canada's Northland, and in Alaska, regarding the 
learning needs of natives and immigrants. 

Roby's practice of adult education in other cultures was 
viewed as sound. "His work in India was an excellent example of 
his cross-cultural approach. In Jaipur he involved many 
professionals in the development of, and thought about, adult 
education that were based on Indian culture. He used Indian 
examples in his writings extensively" (Dandiya, personal 
communication, 1983). There are many other examples of Roby's 
broad outreach of adult education in other cultures, and his 
contribution in India has be examined in greater detail in this 
study because it exemplified his ability to understand a very 
complex culture. 



Theme vni: Personal Impact 

One of Roby's most durable legacies most likely will be his 
personal impact upon the lives and careers of many people in 
many lands. As Selman noted: "He had a belief in and 
tmderstanding of his fellow people, and a love for their 
development" (personal communication, 1983). Not only did Roby 
become an overseas participant, but he also opened up a whole 
world of overseas work to a generation of people in Canada. He 
recruited them from other fields, almost like converts to the cause 
of adult education internationally (Singh, personal communication, 
1983). This bridge to other cultures is an important dimension of 
Roby's personal impact His enthusiasm, encouragement, and 
commitment persuaded people to join him and this impact changed 
the careers of many young people (Shrivastava, Cunningham, 
personal communications, 1983). 

Among graduate students, he has been described as a 
beacon of guidance, and he provided a graduate studies program 
for countless international students at the Ontario Institute for 
Studies in Education. Roby's enthusiasm for adult education 
attracted new members into the field, and more than one 
participant had said that "He was primarily responsible for my 
taking up adult education as a career" (Shah, personal 
communication, 1983). 

If there is one feature that is consistent throughout the 
study, it is Roby's great impact upon the lives of the people with 
whom he worked. I was a great admirer of Roby. He was the 
greatest adult educator of this century. He encouraged me, offered 
jobs, and provided professional opportunities" (Dutta, personal 
communication, 1983). In short, he had opened doors for many 



24U 



228 



persons, and often he enabled his students to feel like partners in 
his mission of adult education. Characteristically, he posed 
challenges to them and had faith in their ab^ities, and he 
furnished personal contacts so they could develop aad learn. He 
was a model of achievement, as one student described: "He was a 
gifted animator, which I tried to emulate. I looked to him for 
stimulation" (Cunningham, personal communication, 1983). 

A comment from one participant vividly described Roby's 
role among his associates: "Dr. Kidd was not only an organization 
builder but a man maker. For some, just one sitting with him 
could be a turning point in their lives" (Singh, personal 
communication, 1983). The vitality with which Roby committed • his 
efforts to assisting other people in their careers was steadfast 
Friesen sadly remarked that one of the things that may have 
killed Roby at an early age was that "he was salvaging so many 
people all over the world, ?jid the pressure would have killed an 
elephant!" (personal commun cation, 1983). 

The Shrivastavas in In.iia observed that Roby had the skill 
to identify and then recruit the commitment of excellent people as 
leaders in adult education. They believed it was because he was a 
good judge of character in other people, he made them feel 
important and stimulated their interests, and he was a captivating 
person (personal communication, 1983). 



Theme IX: Personal Qualities 

Roby's personal qualities affected all the other dimensions of his 
life and work, especially his personal impact More than 70% of 
the data was focused upon Roby's personal qualities (which was 
highly redundant!). Almost ever>' participant focused on this topic 
at length. In the interviews, Roby's contributions were often 
discussed within a context of a personal quality. This directed the 
study toward a highly personal and biographical profile of his 
work, rather than a more factual account of events. 

Some of Roby's strongest and most obvious qualities and 
characteristics were: his commitment to a cause, tenacity in the 
face of all odds, accessibility to people, generosity, humility, 
erudition, and sympathy for others (Shah, personal communication, 
1983), tenderness and sensitivity which led him to seldom criticise 
or blame those who faltered. He was described as: having a 
universal nature, a great humanist, enthusiastic, [showing] love for 
people, expert communicator, loyal friend (Adiseshiah, personal 
communication, 1983), competent politician, [having] integrity, 
enormous capacity for work, and above all discovering the world 
as a totally involved learner (Friesen, personal communication, 



241 



229 



1983). 

Several participants believed that Roby's ability to understand 
other cultures was his most conspicuous quality. Possibly all of the 
characteristics that have been described were essential to his 
understanding of different people and their needs. Participants 
believed that Roby's personal qualities were the essence of his 
success. There can be no doubt that in a field that involves 
people working together, the qualities with which Roby was 
endowed were crucial to the establishment of his worldwide 
contacts. He had the right skills and personal qualities to build an 
international community of adult educators. 



Theme X: Overall Contribution 

One participant's statement summarized the magnitude of Roby's 
overall contribution to the field; "I consider that he became the 
most influential adult educator in the world during 1972 to 1982" 
(Grifiith, personal communication, 1983). 

Aside from the grand scale organizations which Roby helped 
to establish, the most lasting legacy of his work will be the 
people who continue to develop the profession of adult education. 
Because his practice of adult education affected the lives of so 
many people his enduring contribution will be realized in the 
work carried out by his successors. 

Many decades will pass before the full effect of Roby*s 
work in adult education can be determined, because the fruits of 
his labour and message required the right timing and the 
appropriate receptivity to bring about the kinds of changes that he 
was proposing. 

I conclude with the following quotations from three 
participants which best describe Roby*s overall contribution: 

• He became a symbol of the brotherhood of adult educators 
wherever in the worid they are. and of the common bonds 
cind sympathies we have. ... He contributed to the 
development of people whose lives he touched, came into 
contact with (Jones, personal communication, 1981). 

• You felt challenged, stirred, and called to more effective and 
vigorous action as a result of dealing and being with him 
(Selman, personal communication, 1983). 

• He was the Messiah of adult education, involved in diffuse 
cultures and systems (Dutta, personal communication, 1983). 



242 



230 



References 

Kavoori, J- C, Ed. (1985). Living in an unfrontiered world, Indian 

journal of adult education. 46 (3). 2. 
Kidd, J. R. Personal communication, April 198L Transcribed text 

from an interview with Roby Kidd conducted by N, 

Cochrane and W. Barnard at the Ontario Institute for 

Studies in Education, Toronto. 



243 



CHAPTER 15 



A COMPARATrV^E ASSESSMENT OF TllE 

CANADIAN INTERVIEWS 

Overall the Canadian and Indian perspectives were similar, 
although in Canada there was more depth and scope in the 
information, because the majority of participants had a longer 
association with Roby. The Canadians' contact ranged from 3 to 
60 years with an average of 26 years, while the Indian 
participants knew Roby for a range of 2 to 28 years and an 
average of 15 years. Although this represents a significant 
difference in time, the interviews showed a remarkable consistency 
in the perception of Roby's work and personal qualities among the 
two groups of participants. 

Both groups were congruent in their generally positive views 
about Roby's work. One finding was obvious in both sets of data: 
Roby's work in Canadian and Indian cultures had far-reaching 
implications for the growth of adult education. 

Most opinions were harmonious to the extent that often 
even the same words were used to describe Roby's characteristics, 
action, and philosophy. Where there were some differences of 
opinion about Roby's contribution to adult education, it posed an 
intriguing diversion from the norm. 

One difference of opinion, while not representative of the 
group of Canadian interviewees, is noteworthy. A long-time 
colleague of Roby (who wishes to remain anonymous), who vvas 
active in political and academic activities in Canada, believed that 
Roby's efforts towards raising adult education to professional status 
meant that less attention was paid to public affairs activities. The 
attempt to make adult education into "another academic discipline 
of stature" was a turning point in Roby's career during his 
directorship of the CAAE, which marked a change in his primary 
responsibility to adult education. According to this participant, "the 
CAAE had as a prime responsibility: the question of trying to 
keep the Canadian public informed about the central issues of 
Canadian Society, to keep the splintering process into provincial 
and regional and linguistic groups from creating too much 



244 



232 



splintering in a Canadian Scxnety." Furthermore, he believed that 
Roby's attention to the formation of a bilingual institution of adult 
education, through the CAAE, was less than desirable. This same 
opinion was also expressed by one UNESCO candidate interviewed 
in Paris. 

The reason given by this Canadian participant concerning 
Roby's overly extensive attention to professionalism was as follows: 
"It was a kind of personal objective to create more status for it 
[adult education] " (anonymous participant, personal communication. 
1983). 

A third criticism of Roby's priorities was his devotion to 
international activities of adult education. This was seen as a 
neglect of his work in Canada. He was also accused of keeping 
his approach to policy and practice so vague that it was difficult 
to know his exact stand on a particular issue: "[He was] 
developing an international reputation by keeping all his objectives 
so very vague that nobody could object to them but also very 
few people would implement them" (anonymous participant. 1983). 
He explained that Roby was a believer in consensus and thus he 
would keep his objectives vaguely defined so as not to alarm or 
offend anyone: "He was a great believer in consensus and he 
became a kind of guru of social consensus and in that sense I 
think he missed a real leadership role, but he achieved a personal 
eminence in a field that he really genuinely felt that he was 
serving . . . "(anonymous participant, 1983). 

The same participant described Roby as a very nice, 
persuasive, attractive person who had a genuine desire to make a 
contribution to educadon, but he was so full of goodwill that he 
couldn't bring himself to think that hard choices were sometimes 
necessary. He believed that Roby had spent his life trying to 
build consensus, and eventually he chose the international worid as 
the best place to build consensus because the projects really could 
only be very "insubstantial cobwebby things." As a communicator 
he never really took any lively interest in English- French 
communication in Canada, and from my point of view when you 
are interested in consensus but also interested in creative 
contribution of education, it is a hell of a lot easier to get 
interested in the Third World than to contribute to Canadian 
unity. I hope that doesn't soimd too tough or negative but it is 
really what I feel and I would like to finish by saying that I 
have been wrong before" (anonymous participant. 1983). 

A French Canadian had a different perspective from the 
previous participant concerning Roby's interest in the adult 
education issues peitaining to French- English Canada. "What was 
interesting was that Roby was insisting all along that a link be 
made with French speaking Canada . . . "(Belanger, personal 



246 



233 



communication, 1983). 

Roby's reaction to French Canada's decision not to join the 
ICAE was to meet with members of the Institut Canadien de 
rEducation des Adultes requesting their participation in the 
Council. "Roby told us, 'Listen, we want French-speaking 
[educators] to come into the Council . . . You have a place 
thorr ' ir\ii^y Uii' Ubvtimess of Roby, just make space 

for a very pluralistic view of the Council . . . That was the most 
fascinating thing about Roby. He played a very important role in 
trying to bring us in rapport with other groups while at the same 
time respecting what we were. . . . Roby thought it was very 
important for an organization like us to be in this network and at 
the same time to respect us, and he did that for lots of 
organizations all over the world, for a lot of interesting 
English-speaking organizations, for organizations in the United 
States, for organizations in Russia and China" (Belanger, personal 
communication, 1983). 

Roby's ability to be inclusive of people, and to involve 
them personally, was certainly a strength that was recognized by 
almost every peirticipanL This gave him the ability to communicate 
in different cultural settings, as well as the sensibility to 
understand the needs of Canadians in important public affairs 
issues and to be attuned to their personal learning needs. Roby's 
rapport with people was an important theme for almost every 
participant in the study. His adaptability, which enabled him to 
shift his perspective without losing his own ground for the sake 
of consensus, was considered a rare quality that required a 
harmony between his theory anu practice. His adaptable nature 
was defined this way: "Roby is certainly one of the most 
pluralistic persons that I have met Roby can have significant 
rapport with people in power at a very high level and at the 
same time be in significant rapport with the grassroot activist 
people in popular education" (Belanger, personal conimunij::ation, 
1983). 

This rare quality was considered to be an internationalist 
point- of- view. Some people felt that without this perspective Roby 
could not have succeeded in the formation of the ICAE. As it 
was, the support which he eventually gained, came from over 70 
national and regional member associations. 

In direct contrast to the anonymous Canadian participant 
who believed that Roby compromised his objectives by maintaining 
a stance of consensus, a greater number of persons felt that there 
was another purpose in his gentleness and kindliness of action. 
Paul Belanger's comments exemplified this view: "He was not 
bringing all those people together [in the ICAE] by reducing the 
platform on which everybody would agree. He brought those 



246 



234 



people together because of the importance of the challenge that 
he was putting in front of them, and that was very difTerenL For 
example, he brought all those people together around the 
declaration of the Dar es Salaam meeting not on a minimal 
diplomatic inertic kind of approach but rather on the challenge of 
training people, the challenge of making people conscious to live 
"(personal communication, 1983). 

There were varied opinions about Roby's political stance, but 
he was generally viewed as being tolerant of many political views 
insofar as they enabled people to engage in meaningful and 
purposeful activity. And according to Paul Belanger, "For Roby 
that was not an issue to be a Marxist, to be Socialist or not to 
be a Socialist There were many ways to change, but the issue 
was: are we able to make people autonomous in the way they 
analyze and solve their problems? If they choose any way he 
would respect that; and. indeed, I think this is the platform for a 
Council; because with such an approach tlie Council, as a dynamic 
network, became possible" (personal communication, 1983). 

Another participant contested that Roby was not political 
either in action or in partisan support; nor did he lean toward 
socialist- democratic perspectives. He felt that since Roby could 
negotiate with many members of eastern communist regimes meant 
that he was open-minded about ways of achieving social change. 

Above all. adult education was to be linked philosophically 
with freedom. As Rsyesh Tandon stated during an interview: 
"Without such an approach, that is, without being open-minded to 
change, or without insisting . . . that adult education is linked 
intimately with freedom to think, and freedom to analyze, and 
freedom to search for solutions, freedom to search for errors — 
without this platform the Council would not have been possible" 
(personal communication, 1983). 

Tandon continued: "It is an explosion of people who are 
autonomous in their thinking. All of them analyze the things they 
are discussing, the solutions, so there is no possibility of 
manipulation into this." "Because this process of change is an 
educational process, it makes each person autonomous in analyzing 
the solution, and defining the change. . . . Roby worked precisely 
to develop tools to make this work for adult education. It is easy 
to say but not that easy to do. How to develop a curriculimi. 
how to develop the linkage between public institutions and groups 
— media to group dynamics to participatory research and so forth" 
(Belanger, personal communication, 1983). 

Roby as a practitioner was effective and consistent with his 
theories. As one West Indian participant declared: "He was a 
practitioner in a very practical sense because he could see what 
was needed but didn't set out to tell others that this was the best 



24/ 



235 



form of education . . . You found yourself growing into it" 
(Barrow, personal communication, 1982). 

He was a facilitator of others, and the term "enabler of 
other people" was used by more than ten participants. Often it 
was Roby's enthusiasm that prompted the direction of the person 
he was helping. "I think he wls an enabler of other people and 
he had a vision of things which could happen . . . often you 
were not aware of what he saw as the ultimate goal but you got 
into it because you got enthused by just talking" (Barrow, personal 
communication, 1982). 

Consistent with the Indian view, tlie Canadian perspective 
generally concurred that Roby's cross-cultural approach to working 
with people was enhanced by his ability to communicate with 
people at all levels. Roby made friends very easily, was 
easy-going, rarely imposing or abrasive. He was described 
frequently as a very effective diplomat, and a quiet persuader. 

Another common theme of Indian and Canadian participants 
concerned Roby's interest in, and promotion of, adult learning 
theory. To Roby adult education was by its very nature, something 
that usually happened outside the classroom or universities or 
formal institutions. In his book /fow Adxdts Learn, Roby made an 
important contribution to learning theory, which prompted this 
description from one participant: "It was a book not to explain 
adult education to university people, but for the field" (Buttedahl, 
personal communication, 1983). More than twenty participants 
viewed the book as having wisdom in its simplicity, because it 
presented a synthesis of ideas clearly and succinctly for the 
layperson, and for the newcomer to the field of adult education. 
"At first sight it looks a very simple book. But this book was 
made by a practitioner for practitioners. It was made for people 
in the field . . . and once you look at it from that point of 
view it makes a very different book, that is the reason why this 
book was so successful. . . . The book was published at a time 
when a few people were beginning to look at adult education as 
such. There were really no textbooks for someone interested in 
adult education. I always look upon How Adults Learn as being 
really the very first attempt It was sort of a popular approach in 
an academic way to explain what all this business of adult 
learning was abouL People were beginning to look a little more 
seriously at what they were doing if they were working with 
adults. His book explained that adult education is a field of study 
and it could help me to do a better job when working with 
adults" (Buttedahl, personal communication, 1983). 

Another participant believed that Roby wanted adult 
education to have a broad meaning so it had to be at the 
people's level and not all, exclusively or principally, at a university 



24b 



236 



level. "What was fascinating with Roby was that he was able to 
always see over the heads of everybody, and to see the longest 
possible perspective, and to create structures that will help us to 
have some influence on these long-term perspectives "(Belanger 
personal communication, 1983). "I think he was always way ahead 
of everybody else in this thinking. . . He was a visionary and 
many, many things which have come to pass really were things 
which Roby was concerned about, and started people thinking 
about, years before they ever became pan of our every day 
understanding" (Buttedahl, personal communication, 1983). 

At least thirty participants acknowledged Roby's genius for 
creating new ^ ideas and felt that he was an implementer and 
starter upper , even though he was inclined to move on once the 
ground had been broken. "Roby was a great starter of things. 
When things were going, I don't think he was much interested in 
sticking around . . . when tliere was just the mundane 
administration kinds of things left to do. He would leave that in 
the hands of other people and move on "(Buttedahl, personal 
communication, 1983) since he probably knew that his greatest skill 
was as a founder. In his founding capacity, he was able to bring 
into being structures and organizations that heightened society's 
awareness of adult education. 

Questionnaire and interview findings show that Roby was 
consistent in personality from situation to situation, from country 
to country, and from person to person, both in his work and in 
his personal life. "So he is consistent, I think. I mean, in his 
personality, there is no doubt about it that Roby of ten years ago 
was the Roby of today: steadfast, unswerving in the sense that in 
almost thirty years I don't think I noticed any changes in the 
man whatsoever in terms of his principles, in his way of dealing 
with people. He was just so consistent The only change in Roby 
was his health "(Buttedahl, personal communication, 1983). 

1 here were few occasions when Roby did not have an 
overseas student or educator staying in his own home, sometimes 
for long periods of time. He would provide moral and financial 
support to many persons at the expense of his own family's 
pnvacy and income. His generosity had no limit In short, one 
participant summarized what she believed to be Roby's motive 
behind his never failing drive: his love for. and intense interest 
in, people, especially for their development (M. Schwass, personal 
communication, 1983). 

Many of the Canadian participants mentioned how Roby was 
known to circumvent the rules and regulations of an organization 
in the service of his goals. The ends would somehow justify the 
means, and it was often the petty rules that disturbed him. But 
adherence to institutional policy and codes of ethics was no 



24J 



237 



problem for Roby; he was regarded by the participants as a 
highly ethical person. 

Roby was sometimes criticized for his administrative tactics 
because he appeared not to adhere to the rules of organization 
and "old school" practice. He was a generalist and was not 
always sympathetic to attending to detail. For this and other 
reasons, there have been some critics of so- call ed " Roby- run " 
organizations. In the CAAE there were people who perceived 
Roby's leadership as too personalized and they felt somewhat 
excluded. Others thought that the CAAE's activities during Roby's 
leadership reflected his own aims, and that the Board of Directors 
was dominated by Roby and lacked a strong enough voice in 
setting the targets for the organization. 

In the ICAE also, there were people who sensed that the 
organization was functioning only as Roby conducted it and not 
according to the decisions of the governing body. At the same 
time, many persons came to Roby's defense in this regard and 
replied in a manner similar to Gordon Selman: "Roby has built 
these personal networks and there have always been people, it 
seems, who have not responded for one reason or another to that 
sort of an approach, and who have been critics of Roby- run 
enterprises, and who have been turned off by that • . . Now in 
many of the enterprises that he has been running, that is really 
the only way that they could fimction. That is the paradox- So 
there have been people who have not been willing to take the 
good out of that means of proceeding, that way of running an 
organization. Roby is not an organizational man in the way that 
one would ordinarily imderstand that phrase. He has built 
organizations, he has made them go. They have been there 
because he got them going and kept them strong" (Selman. 
personal communication. 1983). 

The former Co- ordinator of the Department of Adult 
Education at the University of British Columbia. Bill Griffith, also 
perceived strength in Roby's apparent weakness. "Roby was an 
organization man in an unusual kind of way — an organization 
man who is not a bureaucrat, an organization man who knew by 
personal experience the evils, the weaknesses, tlie deficiencies of 
institutions, and yet he appreciated how essential they were and so 
he built them. And as soon as he would get one started he 
would turn it over to somebody else and move on" (Griffith, 
personal communication. 1983). 

Griffith shed more light on the issue of Roby's 
administrative skills: "After all, the best administrator or operator 
is the one who h£LS the widest range of resources to use and is 
free to use them; and I think he was quite willing to use 
whatever was appropriate even though other people might not 



2ou 



238 



judge it to be appropriate" (Grifnth. personal communication. 
1983). 

Perhaps the reason why the topic of Roby's administiative 
skills became a hot debate among several participants is that many 
of them believed that the ends alone could not justify the means. 
Certainly for Roby there were hard choices to make. Often he 
could not take the time to meet the details of the process to 
reach a goal. He simply had to delegate, and delegation may have 
been viewed by some persons as a cop- out or sloppy technique. 
To others this decision was simply viewed in the light of good 
use of time. 

In spite of the criticisms, tlie end product was clear to the 
majority of participants, which was exemplified in this statement: 
I think Roby has done probably more than any other single 
human being in Canada to develop a national adult education 
community. I would give him full marks on that In the 
development of the international adult education community there 
is no other adult educator who is better known and more 
respected (Grimth. personal communication, 1983). 

In spite of the criticism about Roll's work strategies, there 
was little disagreement about his manner of working with people 
once he appeared on the scene. "The Roby Kidd process that I 
had been familiar with [wad the sort of highly personalized 
building of confidence in an idea, building a sense of 
companionship in working in a personal way towards an agreed 
upon objective "(Selman. personal communication, 1983). 

In conclusion, one could say that Roby viewed adrtiinistration 
as a tool to obtain something, but it was never a device in itself. 
He did get the job done with the benefit of facilitating good 
interpersonal communication and consensus; and sometimes the job 
was completed by one person without the i-am function. 
Therefore, while the sacrifice (or neglect) of social etiquette may 
have daunted some people, the overwhelming number and quality 
of achievements of a single person seemed to justify the means. 
None of the participants doubted Roby's sincerity. Several persons 
saw Roby's need to plunge ahead with an idea as a sign of 
tenacity when he realized that a good project could be done. He 
had enormous energy and a few of his colleagues were suspicious 
about and even jealous of this quality. The need to accomplish so 
much may have been construed as egotistical; but to those who 
knew Roby, it quickly became obvious that he never let the 
prestige of an accomplishment distract him from his humanitarian 
goals. 

The issue pertaining to good protocol was viewed differently 
by Canadian and Indian participants. The Indian participants did 
not object to Roby's break with protocol; on the contrary, they 



25i 



239 



saw such initiatives as being a service to all persons involved. 
Although Roby visited the homes of some of his Indian students 
and so broke with local protocol (Jayagopal, personal 
communication, 1983), he generally observed the cultural nornis and 
values during his stay in India, 

The greater variance of opinion among the Canadian 
participants may have been caused by the wider selection and 
larger number of people in the Canadian sample, whereas in India 
he had worked with a selected group of persons who shared 
common goals and sympathies. In his home territory, Roby worked 
among people who had not gained a world perspective of adult 
eduction, and they may not all have been able to understand his 
ver>^ wide-ranging scope and vision of adult education. 

A long term colleague and friend, John Friesen, believed 
that Roby had far- ranging and far-reaching strengths in his field, 
which was reflected in his wide scope of adult education activities: 
"In my opinion, one's 'scope of adult education* harkens back to 
one's life experience. Roby's work experience covered a broad 
swathe. His research is another reflection. And there's nothing like 
an immersion in world adult education to broaden one's scope" 
(personal communication, 1983). 

Roby's social action goals may have been better received in 
places such as India, where the definition and function of adult 
education develops out of the immediate social need. In the West, 
the social action movement of adult education may have had its 
greatest impact during the life of Citizens' and Farm Radio 
Forums, when adult learning circles received their vitality and 
driving force from organizations such as the CAAE. 

Roby understood the urgency for learning in India, which 
exists^ among a great number of illiterate and indigent poor, but 
Roby's role in creating building blocks for adult education 
structures in India was understood poorly by many of the 
Canadian participants; they generally lacked a knowledge of the 
details of his international accomplishments. One Canadian 
perceived Roby as an evangelist, while many Canadian and Indian 
participants viewed Roby as a missionary with "another pulpit." 
the pulpit of social gospel that sought to provide just and equal 
learning opportunities for all members of society. Although Roby 
was respected by both groups, there was more controversy among 
the Canadians about his aims and goals of adult education. There 
were some Canadians who believed that Roby deliberately did not 
define adult education, because to do so would limit its scope, 
and thus run counter to his own philosophy about the nature of 
adult education. While some participants saw this as a strength, 
others felt lhat this diminished the theoretical basis and 
philosophical presupposition that may have prompted his mission. 



252 



240 



In India Roby's mission may have been more clearly 
defined: it was a move toward social action in the service of the 
less privileged castes of their society. To attempt to build 
structures in support of the privileged class would have been 
redundant in India, Roby had introduced new concepts of adult 
education in India, one example being the role of the universities 
in organizing community outreach programs of adult education: this 
was no new concept in Canada, even though it had not been 
applied to any large extent in serving the needs of the 
disadvantaged members of Canadian society. 

One Canadian proffered a reason why Roby had invested so 
much of his energy in the international work of adult education: 
''So even in the last few years, one of my analyses of why he 
turned his attention outside was because he simply was better 
creating things than maintaining them. Right up to the end he 
was looking at creating things, and this sort of entrepreneurial 
kind of thing is a real advantage (in overseas work) . . . Roby 
was always a better interpreter than a theoretician. His mind ran 
to linking somewhat unlinkable kinds of things . . . One element, 
however, that I think he had a lot of influence on. and that was 
Roby's insistence on leadership towards looking at the situation 
from the perspective of the learner as opposed to the perspective 
of education . . . Roby's interest in what he used to call 
'mathetics* was a science of learning as opposed to teaching 
methods" (Davie, personal communication. 1983). 

Lynn Davie also believed that Roby had a predominant role 
in the maturation of adult education in Canada, including having 
an impact on the Canadian Government's view of adult education. 

While both participant groups agreed that Roby had an 
outstanding personal impact upon the lives of individual educators, 
this is much more evident within the Indian group. In Canada. 
Roby was on occasion seen as a backstage member of the team, 
while in India his frontstage team role provided an impetus for 
the outcome of many projects. In Canada Roby may have taken 
the solitary role more often than in India, but even in India he 
was described by one participant as being "a secluded hard worker 
behind the desk" (F. Krishna, personal communication. 1983). 

To the Canadian participant Roby was usually regarded as 
mystery, but to the majority of Indian participants his ways were 
seen to be more like those of a guru or yogi, a great thinker 
and spiritual leader. His educational gains in a developing country 
were more easily recognizable, where the practical emphasis was 
likely to have been more highly valued than a theoretical 
contribution. 

Both groups used similar terms in describing Roby's private 
and public life: they were inseparable — interwoven to suit his 



241 



life mission, the mission of adult education for the masses. As 
one participant noted: "Cleail, nis life was tied up with the 
growth of an idea and the elopment of it ... I think he 
was one of the few who id a vocation to work in adult 
educaton. but along with tha he simply was a person with an 
extraordinary capacity for work ... he simply had a lot of 
energy all through his life" (Davie, personal communication. 1983). 

In conclusion, while the social role of adult education in 
Canada ^ may have become less obvious following the extinction of 
CiUzens and Farm Radio Forums, the need for basic education in 
India provided a relevant focus for the social role of adult 
education. There can be no doubt that social readiness is a prime 
factor in the success of any efTorL Roby's success can also be 
nieasured in what he fostered in people's personal lives. Influence 
of this nature often lies hidden, requiring many years of 
germination to reach maturation. 

This study cannot impart the full significance of Roby's life, 
either in Canadian society or in other cultural groups, without a 
much closer study and assessment of the long-term results. These 
may be more clearly manifested in the growth of individuals and 
insutuuons. On the whole. Roby was remembered as a success by 
the Canadian. Indian, and U^fESCO participants, with the 
excepuon of a small number of persons who looked upon his 
achievements with cynicism. 



Summary of Roby Kidd's Major Contributions to 
Adult Education as Viewed by the Canadian Participants 

The Canadians assessed Roby's contribution as highly successful 
and in general they regarded him as an outstanding Canadian 
ciuzen and adult educator. Some of Roby's accomplishments, which 
have been interpreted from the interview transcripts are as 
follows. * 

The raising of adult education to professional status in the 
r D u system can be attributed primarily to the work 

of Roby KiQd. He was seen as the progenitor of graduate study 
in adult educauon in Canada. No one else had exerted as much 
infiuence on universities in persuading tJiem to create adult 
education divisions or departments. 

His contribution to the advancement of adult learning theory 
was considerable. Roby elucidated th- relationship between 
conunuous learmng. or lifelong learning, to life itself as a 
developmient process. Furthermore, he promoted the development 
of a body of theory known as "mathetics." which is the study of 
the learning process from the point of view of the learner (rather 



242 



than a study of teaching methods). In addition, he introduced new 
theory pertaining to comparative and cross-cultural studies in adult 
education. His numerous publications and public presentations 
broadened the view of adult education as an applied discipline 
that draws and applies knowledge from many other fields. Finally, 
he introduced a new perspective to education and learning, 
especially through his advocacy of informal learning systems. 

He helped to build a national and international movement 
of adult educators, through keeping the CAAE alive and relevant, 
and by establishing the ICAE, 

His effect on the lives of other people was most evident in 
the cadre of skilled leaders whom he had attracted and then 
facilitated their personal development In this way his practice of 
adult education provided an exemplary model for his students and 
colleagues. His own living example of a dynamic adult learner was 
invigorating and captivating to others. 

An attitude of greater acceptance towards adult education 
was fostered by Roby in the developing countries, particularly 
among Government officials. He influenced educational policy in 
many countries, including Canada. Roby had a hand in building 
some of Canada's great institutions (see Part I), and he was adult 
education's best fund raiser. 

He was renowned as a brilliant and gifted teacher who 
showed the greatest respect for the integrity and autonomy of the 
individual learner. He understood and demonstrated good use of 
media in adult education. Complementary to this he was an 
excellent facilitator of communication among groups of people to 
help them find a common ground. 

Above all, Roby will most likely be remembered by 
Canadian educators as a great humanitarian, an outstanding 
Canadian citizen who broadened the meaning of citizenship, and as 
one of the world's greatest leaders in adult education in this 
century. Don MacNeil, one of Roby*s first students and closest 
colleagues, made an important concluding statement about the 
impact that Roby had had on him: "I don't think of the things 
that I have learned from Roby, although there are countless 
enough of those, but I think of the things I felt from Roby" 
(personal communication, 1983). 



References 

Kidd, J. R. (1973). Relentless verity: Education for being — 
becoming — belonging. New York: Syracuse University Press. 
(A Publication in Continuing Education 13). 

(1974). A Tale of three cities: Elsinore — Montreal — Tokyo: 



243 



the influence of three UNESCO World Conferences upon the 
development of adult education. New York: Syracuse 
University. (Landmarks and new horizons in continuing 
education). 

Thomas, A., Cochrane, N. J., Kidd, J. R., Curtis, B., Dennison J., 
O'Connor, R, Beck, C & Pnmard, W. (1979). Report to the 
Solicitor General of Canada concerning the educational 
program of the Canadian corrections system. Toronto: The 
Ontario Institute for Studies in Education. 



25d 



CHAPTER 16 



A COMPARATIVE ASSESSMENT 

OF THE INDIAN INTERVIEWS 

Instead of deschooling society, education should be 
used to neutralize social- class differences and promote 
the welfare of the rural poor so as to give them a 
fair chance in life (Doraiswami, 1983). 

The above was the context within which Roby was invited to help 
organize a Department of Adult Education in the University of 
Rajasthan, India in 1965. The late Dr. Mohan Sinha Mehta, who 
was Vice- Chancellor of the Unwersity when Roby came to India, 
paid tribute to the important foundation which Roby helped to 
establish for graduate studies in adult education. 

Mehta wrote: "Our Association feels that the wisdom, 
thoughts, and the dynamic spirit which characterize Roby's actions 
and writings should have an impact on a far larger number of 
intelligent and thinking people in this country than has been so 
far the case . . . You may live in the same room with Roby 
Kidd for ten days, but you may not discover his nationality. The 
current conception of narrow nationalism passes by without 
touching him. He is at home everywhere. He is, in his ideas, 
feelings, and aspirations, truly a citizen of the world, without 
making any pretensions about it His active sympathy extends to 
all parts and peoples of the world . . . Roby Kidd belongs to a 
tribe so scanty in numbers. Its few members are ever active in 
striving to take the troubled twentieth century out of its trials, 
narrow jealousies, and stupid cruel wars to the twenty- first which 
should secure goodwill, abiding peace, happiness, and civilized 
living for the human being" (Mehta, 1969, Foreword). 

Roby strove to become a citizen of the world. His Canadian 
background, richly endowed with settlers from other lands, enabled 
him to identify with mulu- cultural identities. The context in which 
Roby Kidd grew up is well described in a biography of John 
Robbins entitled A Canadian for all Seasons (McLeish, 1978). 
Robbins, the first Canadian Ambassador to the Vatican, and one 



25/ 



245 



of the most active Canadians in Amnesty International was Roby's 
closest friend as well as an important mentor and colleague for 
over forty years. 

Dr. S. C. Dutta, another long-term colleague and friend, 
who IS Vice-President of the Indian Association for Adult 
Education, said that Roby's greatest quality was in the way "he 
was adjusting himself to the needs of the situation, he was so 
much a part of ordinary life" (personal communication, 1983). This 
quality enabled him to adapt to the Indian culture and its adult 
education needs. Dutta believed that Roby had effected a cultural 
exchange in India, and he did not '^unction as an expert adviser 
but as a learner who was curious, became involved, and helped 
people through an interchange of ideas which he facilitiated. 

Although Roby was considered to be an avid learner he was 
criticized by several UNESCO diplomats for his inability to master 
any language other than English. They considered it peculiar that 
a person with such multi- cultural zeal could not learn one of the 
most important components of a culture, its language. Others, 
however, have been more tolerant of this shortcoming by taking 
into account the lack of time at Roby's disposal to learn other 
languages. 

Almost all of the Indian participants were complimentary 
about Roby's personal qualities, especially those that enabled him 
to "become like an Indian," which they believed was a difficult 
task for a Westerner. Many described Roby as a missionary who 
did not ofTend the people's heritage and rich cultural values. 

Roby was a resource for the Indian educators, supplying 
them with materials for educational programs. For example Roby 
presented the Indian Adult Education Association with Rs. 8722.20 
from the National Farm Forum of Canada for the purchase of 
radio sets to be presented to the Rural Farm Forums run by All 
India Radio. The report about the project read: "Another sum of 
about 28 thousand rupees are likely to be received from Canada 
for the same purpose" (lAAE, 1962). Roby had expedited the 
transfer of knowledge about Canada's Farm Radio Forum program 
to the Indian population, and the radios assisted the transmission 
of programs across the country. Several Indian educators considered 
the project a great success because it was carefully adapted to 
Indian culture. 

Dr. Dutta believed that Roby had the right qualities for 
leadership; and there is little doubt that Roby was esteemed in 
India as a leader of the international community of adult 
educators. One quality in particular which Roby possessed made 
him effective in this way: "It is honesty with oneself that makes 
a great leader. Roby was honest with himself and with others. 
You could trust him and depend on his word" (Dutta, personal 



258 



246 



communication, 1983). 

Dr. Francine Krishna, an English professor at the University 
of Rajasthan recalled her image of Roby while he was working to 
develop the Department of Adult Education: "Roby was impressed 
by the new things the people were producing. It was the 
capability of what India could do — the possibilities. It was the 
range of things that interested him ... He listened a lot, but 
you were not quite sure what he was thinking. Roby was at first 
difficult to get to know" (Krishna, personal communication, 1983). 

Roby could see the rich possibilities in organized strength 
and educated talent, possibilities that could become realities if this 
great mass of people acquired opportunities for learning. He knew 
that this could never be accomplished through the "filter down" 
theorj' (Mathur, 1982), whereby the poor receive the filtered down 
benefits from an educated upper caste society. The lower castes 
needed systems of education that could make them self-reliant so 
that they could represent their own interests. 

The adult education program that Roby helped to develop 
needed to be relevant to the immediate needs of the community. 
One participant told a story about a fishemian in the community 
who wanted to take a course on international law so that he and 
his fellow fishermen could understand the fishing rights and 
geographic boundaries. In response to this request, a couxse was 
established in the Continuing Education division of the Department 
of Adult Education at the University of Rajasthan. 

During the year that the Kidd family lived in Jaipur, in 
the State of Rajasthan, they were viewed by local residents as a 
"dedicated team" who worked well together. Meena Dandiya, 
Chairperson of the Department of Adult Education of the 
University of Rajasthan, described Roby as being "superior in his 
contribution to the Rajasthan Project," possessing the qualities of 
"dedication, experience, rapport, enthusiasm, sensitivity" (personal 
communication, 1983). Furthermore "he instilled confidence in the 
people. His contagious enthusiasm and sound knowledge won him 
high acclaim among students and educators in India. Another 
reason he was so well received was that he understood the role 
of adult education as an instrument of social change in a 
developing country" (Jayagopal, personal communication, 1983). 

The former Vice-Chancellor of the University of Rajasthan. 
Dr. T. KL. N. Urmithan, had some doubts about the success of 
the Rajasthan Project, because the survival of any program 
requires a theoretical basis and philosophy which could be revised 
according to new experience and research findings. He explained: 
"If there are theories in education, there must be theories in 
adult education. What are the specificities in educating the adult? 
Action and theory are required for a sound theoretical base to 



247 



sustain and develop practice. Action and theory go together, and 
empirical verification is necessary to build a theory. For example, 
the hypothesis could be tested that caste is an important 
impediment in adult eduction, since there are impacts of 
socio- cultural restraints upon action programs" (personal 
communication, 1983). 

The Vice-chancellor could not easily summarize Roby's 
contribution to adult education in India. Instead, he described M'hat 
he thought to be Roby's philosophy and overall intentions: "He 
sought to better the human condition, and he used adult education 
as a means to improve the human situation. He was deeply 
convinced of a better quality of life . . . His theory was 
essentially based on this possibility of bringing social development" 
(Unnithan, personal communication, 1983). 

Some participants were critical of Roby's idealism, specifically 
the way he thought that adult education could be used to 
improve the human situation. Roby had not drawn evidence from 
controlled research to support this idea; his theory was centred in 
his own personal experiences. 

Dr. Unnithan believed that even though Roby may have 
had an appropriate vision of adult education for India, their 
university system was not ripe for the kind of change required to 
establish a program in graduate studies with a community 
outreach. Roby was thought to be ahead of his time with regard 
to this goal. Dr. Unnithan speculated about the possible reasons 
for this problem: "Adult education has not gained the disciplinary 
status that it has probably in Canada, and certainly so far as an 
academic discipline is concerned it is at a very low level ... So 
far as adult education is concerned it is not even recognized as a 
discipline of the university because it is more orientated towards 
action, and adult literacy is not really taken as a program of the 
university" (personal communication, 1983). University interest would 
come when there would be greater possibilities for research, and 
improvements in the methods of teaching adults. 

Finally, the Vice- Chancellor paid tribute to Roby's personal 
qualities and accomplishments in India, and described the outcome: 
"People appreciate the sincerity in any individual. Now they 
immediately can sense to what extent a person is devoted . . . 
one of the greatest qualities of Roby KJdd was that he was truly 
devoted to the cause ... so that generated a faith and 
enthusiasm in others who were associated with him"(Unnithan, 
personal communication, 1983). 

Dr. Unnithan believed that Roby was effective because his 
experiences in developing countries gave him a background for 
seeing the common basis of their needs. Without this experience 
he could not have sustained large teaching and action programs in 



2o.j 



248 



adult education around the world. He thought that Roby must 
have had a sound theoretical base for sustaining such action 
programs (Unnithan, personal communication, 1983). 

Roby's experiences as a world consultant were highly valued 
in the international community of adult educators, and they were 
viewed as experiments whereby Roby could bui!d and test his 
theories of adult education. More importantly, his personal qualities 
enabled him to accomplish more than other educators because, as 
UnnitJian noted; "He was a seeker an j he was devoted to the 
cause (personal communication, 1983). 

The first Director of the Depaitment of Adult Education at 
the University of Rajasthan, Mr. U. S. Gaur, felt that Roby's 
genius lay in his ability to combine a theoretical and practical 
approach in the classroom; for example, he could organize groups 
to function effectively. However, this practical emphasis may not 
have been well received in the Indian university system, which 
was primarily aimed toward the development of scholarship for its 
own sake. The university system in India had aimed to serve the 
needs of the scholar, but tlic needs of the rural Indian folk cuuld 
not possibly be met in a system that catered to the upper castes. 

Gaur, who is now retired from the Department of Adult 
Education, believed that: "The Department [of adult education] in 
Rajasthan was looked down [on] as a secondary discipline, as a 
matter of grace rather than a matter of necessity ... In time 
there was a beginning appreciation but that did not go far". He 
added: "Few people today are aware of the importance of adult 
education" (personal communication, 1983). 

This was probably an impediment to Roby's efforts to plant 
a seed for the acceptance of adult education as a discipline and 
as a potent social force. Roby fostered an understanding of the 
role of adult education, which extended beyond literacy and 
teacher training in the developing countries. He brought with him 
a spark of enthusiasm and persistence that penetrated parts of the 
political, educational, and social systems of India (Jayagopal, Dutta, 
personal communication, 1983). The task, however, was 
overwhelming, which requited special pe sonal qualities that could 
sustain him in times of despair. Dandiya described: "the human 
touch was ver>^ important" (personal communication, 1983) in the 
success of Roby's efforts to reach persons in large and complex 
systems. 

Following his year in Jaipur in 1966, Roby continued to 
maintain contact with the Indian people beyond the mandate of 
the Colombo Plan Agreement He continued to provide moral 
support as well as stimulating ideas that could be tried and tested. 
But, as the current Director of the Department of Adult 
Education, Meena Dandiya, described the problem: "The whole 



261 



249 



university is alien to the people. It is too elitist The university 
system is on the verge of breakdown. It is not able to bear the 
pressure of this new group of learners. They are the first 
generation of learners. There is a social- moral change and the 
university is not able to cope with this change. The hierarchy of 
the academic circle is so alien. It is a group of disenchanted 
persons. Tliere is anger and strife . . . Political leadership could 
be in the hands of the farmers [because] they have money now" 
(personal communication, 1983). 

Concerning Roby's qualities which enabled him to susiain his 
hope and support for the Indian people, Dandiya explained: "Roby 
was a man of great vision. A very broad overall perspective was 
in his grasp. He would go ahead. He was always positively 
involved. He was academically superior to the other Colombo 
consultants ... He made an attempt to put a humanistic 
discipline on a scientific plane ... He was beyond the average" 
(personal communication,1983). 

Along with several other Indians, Dandiya believed that 
Roby changed his focus after his stay in India during 1965-66. "I 
think that the best part of his life, and his contribution and 
achievements were after his stay at Rajasthan. I think that the 
real Roby was the impact that he made after his visit here. So 
one could really put his life into certain parts. In India he 
showed his capacity to absorb and exploit the climate that he had 
in a foreign land, and he became a real international figure. But 
I think the best part of his life was contributing to the 
International Council for Adult Education. To my mind, the most 
remarkable thing about the person mainly [is that] he almost 
walked like a messiah for adult education. What Roby gives is 
spread ouL It covers a loL Roby tends to be a generalist . . . 
Roby essentially is a great humanist, a man so much interested in 
people and being good to them. The mechanism was through the 
development of the ICAE. It is a great thing to develop an 
international organization ... of such vast differences and 
ideologies, and to get people to collaborate with him. He was a 
big seller of adult education over the world. I think he is the 
one single person who did the greatest to spread the idea of 
adult education. One cannot think of any other person who has 
done so much. So he was a great organizer and a man of great 
vision in this respecL Well, I admire him as a man and as an 
adult educator, and I am intrigued how in such a short span [of 
time] he was able to do so much, how he could absorb the 
cultural differences and only see the commonalities amongst people, 
and harness and exploit these commonalities or common factors 
for the development of adult education — how he could rise 
above himself and above the narrowness of man at any stage and 



250 



then contribute so widely . . . There must have been fnistrations 
and disappointments in his life, but still he continuously, with a 
smgle-minded aim, went ahead and ahead. [His] energy and drive 
was faith, which got him over those things which depress and 
repress a person's enthusiasm. Another thing is that he was able 
to involve some of the very outstanding people and organize 
them" (Dandiya, personal communication, 1983). 

Anil Bordia, Director of primary and secondary education for 
the State of Rajasthan, recalled his very close involvement with 
Roby during his stay in Jaipur in 1965-66. His first recollection 
IS that Roby had an article published in the Indian journal called 
Naya Shikshak which in Hindi means "The New Teacher." The 
article was entitled "And he who lives a hundred years" (Kidd 
1968). This article was a follow-up to Roby's Implications of 
Continuous Learning which was published by the Indian Adult 
Education Association (Kidd, 1966). In these two publications 
Roby presented his view of the adult learner, and it became the 
subject of discussion in the Rajasthan Board of Secondary 
Education. 

Bordia recalled Roby's impact at the time: "The point that 
Roby was making was to sort of look at the whole problem of 
curriculum development in a very, very different sense. In India, 
and probably in several other countries, we have tended to look 
at curriculum as something which contains all information all 
knowledge to be presented in a manner which can be absorbed 
by students of a particular age. This article of Roby*s, and the 
lectures and elaborations which he made, and a number of 
meetings among teachers and curriculum developers in Rajasthan at 
that^ time, had a tremendous influence, you know. Since then we 
don t look at curriculum development in the same manner as we 
did before. Unfortunately, that message has not been fully 
absorbed and fully internalized. Basically, it means that people 
have not fully understood the meaning. They have not fully 
identified themselves with the concept So it has not had as much 
inOuence as it might have had but, nonetheless, it still has quite 
a lot (personal communication, 1983). 

Bordia was referring to Roby's theory of continuous learning, 
in which he had identified three dimensions of adult learning: the 
perpendicular, horizontal, and depth dimensions of learning (kidd 
1968). Part of Roby's concept was as follows: "Continuous 
learning, or lifelong education, has a beginning in the home and 
the nursery school; it comprehends all schooling for children and 
youth. It includes higher and adult education, and it covers the 
educational activities of older men and women. Part of this is 
formal, in educational institutions; much of it is informal. In other 
words it is consonant with education . . . Continuous learning is a 



26S 



251 



concept', it is an attitude; ii is a totality; it is not a segment or 
a special field or division of education" {t^idd, 1966). 

Bordia also identified one of the political contributions of 
Roby's work in India, namely his support for and development of 
many voluntary agencies, which enabled adults to have access to 
educational opportunities, and which provided a system of 
communication with government lines of support These voluntary 
agencies were at the "grassroots level" in organizing programs of 
functional literacy for the rural Indian people. They also consisted 
of State Resource Centres, and Dr. Mehta and Roby jointly 
sponsored the formation of the Rajasthan Adult Education 
Association (RAEA), which was a support and training institution 
for field adult education and literacy program. Roby also 
strengthened many voluntary agencies in other parts of India. One 
of the most prominent associations, which functions as a State 
Resource Centre, is the Bengal Social Service League, directed by 
Dr. S. Maitre in Calcutta. Roby assisted Dr. Dutta, Dr. Mehta, 
and Mr. Bordia in forming the Asian South Pacific Bureau of 
Adult Education (ASPBAE) in New Delhi, which was established 
in 1964 (Kidd, 1979). 

Roby was very much interested in the indigenous character 
of adult education in India, and its natural evolution from within 
the culture as an inherent native featiu-e. The history, religion, and 
crafts of the people of India were rich with an educational 
heritage that was passed from person to person. For example, 
Roby's interest in the goddess of learning and wisdom, Saraswati, 
encompassed an iconic image of the value of learning to the 
Indian people. In response to his attraction to this concept, Roby 
formed an organization in Toronto called Sangam Incorporated in 
1968, which means meeting place, or a place of convergence of 
waters. He also adopted the Saraswati image of the goddess for 
the cover page of the journal he established and edited called 
Convergence. 

Anil Bordia described Roby's full engagement in the culture: 
"He was reading all the time about India, about what is there 
and what is not there, history, geography, and Indian images, 
iconography and so on" (personal communication, 1983). Bordia 
described Roby as an "institution builder" who was sensitive to 
the cultural differences in India. That was a difficult 
accomplishment for several reasons: firstly, change in the 
educational system required a great deal more time in Indian than 
in Western cultures; secondly, the caste system often served as a 
hindrance to providing equal opportunities to the indigent 
population; thirdly, Roby's belief that all human beings had 
infinite capacities was sometimes viewed as naive. 

In summary, Bordia appraised Roby's overall contribution as 



2b*4 



252 



being quite remarkable in light of the obstacles he had faced. 
Roby brought a new dimension md meaning to the concept of 
education in the political, educ onal, and social systems of India. 
He was a builder of voluntary institutions that could establish a 
line of communication to sources of funding. His Canadian 
experiences during the years 1938-1961 furnished him with the 
skills to access funding sources. As a man fully engaged in the 
life and culture of India, Roby valued the indigenous nature of 
adult education there, and drew from it symbols which he applied 
to his teaching and writing. 

Finally, and most importantly, Roby instilled in the 
university system, the concept of continuing education for the 
general public, especially in rural communities. He strengthened the 
model department of adult education at the University of 
Rajasthan, and consequent to this at least six other departments of 
adult education were established in other parts of India, using 
Roby^s principles of teaching and leadership. He had planted the 
"seeds of promise" (Buttedahl, 1968) in the University of 
Rajasthan. From them a lifeline of communication and growth 
flourished among adult educators which continues today. 

Roby could achieve so much in India during a relatively 
short period of time because of his personal qualities. Shiva Dutta 
reflected back: "He was a leader who used to go down to the 
lowest as well as to the highest, and in that process he was 
meeting all types of people, and he was behaving according to his 
situation. His greatest quality was that he was adjusting himself to 
the needs of the situation. He was so much a part of ordinary 
life . . . One important thing is tliat in our culture we have a 
hierarchical system you know . . . therefore, we must maintain 
distance. For a man like Roby to meet with ordinary people, go 
to their homes, and all these things, nobody could imagine — but 
he was doing that all the time. He was visiting the homes of 
students. He broke with protocol and therefore he was different 
For after all, in tlie developing countries adult education and 
poverty go together. In our country, adult education is not for the 
rich. That is the association. We are taking over health education 
for social change; inequalities, poverty, bring about structural 
changes in our social and economic structures. When he was 
breaking protocol, it automatically meant that he was advocating 
social change. After all, the social change must proceed by certain 
attitudinal and behavioural changes amongst the people who are in 
power, or who are occupying important positions" (Dutta, personal 
communication, 1983), 

Roby managed to influence persons within the political and 
educational systems of India so that his mission could be achieved. 
He understood from his Canadian experience that change could 



253 



not come from the grassroots level alone; it had to be preceded 
and supported by a sympathetic audience of powerful persons. 

What was the purpose of social change, if we consider this 
to be one of Roby's most significant contributions to the Indian 
educational system? Many of the interviewees had conceptualized 
tiie purpoiie in similai' ways. For Shiva Dutxa the end goal was 
the development and freedom of mankind: "Roby, in his 
experience in Canada/USA and overseas must have come to this, 
that unless we bring about social and economic independence for 
the vast number of people, the concept of freedom of mankind 
will be far away. So education and development will and mus^ 
lead to development, and development means equal benefit to the 
largest number of people. Caste system is a means for exploitation. 
The exploiting class, or the exploiters, are utilizing all of the 
opportunities within our social system for keeping themselves in 
power" (personal communication, 1983). 

Dutta also believed that Roby's concept of education for 
development evolved during his stay in India in 1965-66, and that 
prior to that time his focus was primarily remedial education or 
education for skill development "At that point in history, Roby 
changed totally" (Dutta, personal communication, 1983). In fact, the 
seed for this new outlook had been planted in 1956-57 when he 
had served as a Carnegie consultant in the Caribbean, where he 
was greatly influenced by Sir Philip Sherlock. That was Roby's 
first direct exposure to a developing country and the problems of 
innovating a system of adult education. Roby may have realized, 
as Dutta described, "that education is not only meant as a 
remedial education, but education of administrators, education of 
politicians, all of those kinds of things. Literacy was for 
liberation" (Dutta, personal communication, 1983). 

Roby was a co-orcMnator par excellence. In all his travels to 
other cultures, he adapted to the people's needs, and he himself 
was growing. Through this growth, he was in his own way trying 
to synthesize and concretize his perspective and give it to the 
world (Dutta, personal communication, 1983). "He must have 
collected something from Tanzania and passed it on to India to 
enrich the Indian experiment, and similarly, he must have taken 
some of the ideas from India when going to Malasia and other 
places. The quest for learning was so great in him. He was 
hopping from one place to another in quest of truth ... I am 
one of the great admirers of Roby Kidd. He was the greatest 
adult educator of the century" (Dutta, personal communication, 
1983). 

A large number of Indian participants suspected that Roby 
was a deeply religious man, much like a Christian, much like a 
Hindu, but more like a non- sectarian humanist who lived out his 



2G6 



254 



religious beliefs with a gentle but firm spirit of social mission. 

Mr. U. S. Gaur, former Director of the Department of 
Adult ^Education in the University of Rajasthan said this about 
him: Very affectionate man. When I looked at him, I thought 
that I was looking at a verv good Christian. His spirit, the 
human touch were very important. He had so much sympathy 
and affection' (personal communication, 1983). 

_ Gaur's summary of Roby's contribution is that he had 
inspired a whole generation of workers in adult education. He 
knew how to identify good leaders, and he then managed to 
inspire them so that they became devoted workers. Roby could 
combine the talents of the scholar who devoted much of his time 
to the publication of adult learning theory, and the man in the 
classroom capable of reaching and recruiting people for the field 
Gaur recalled his teaching: "I invited him several times to address 
the undergraduate class, and the way he was able to pass on 
intncate intellectual ideas in a very simple, lucid manner was 
amazing. So I thought he was a teacher in the classroom ... a 
teacher in big groups and ... a person who could also guide 
people in the community. In his books he was capable of 
building up theories" (personal communication, 1983). 

Gaur added that, to his regret, he was dissatisfied that 
many solid theories of adult education have not been developed 
with regard to special needs; for example, economic welfare "so 
that people should learn so that they can earn better" (personal 
communication, 1983). Education of the aging population was 
another need Gaur identified as requiring a great deal more 
attention in India. 

Dr. Jayagopal, Professor of the Department of Adult and 
Continuing Education, University of Madras, India, spoke about 
Kobys role in a six- week training program organized in his 
Department in 1976. "The six- week program gave us the base 
and out of it again we went through several curriculum 
committees, but the basic material for this was given by Roby. 
That is what I would like to emphasize. One good point, and one 
very important thing which you should mention, is that we are 
Indians; we have been here and it is part of our culture but 
Roby had the tremendous insight into the Indianness of the 
program, which I think many people would miss . . . Roby had 
the insight into many of these problems ... His idea of 
initiating a masters degree program materialized only in 1976. So 
that is the Indianness, it lakes time! You can plan the area you 
can help people, but it will take some time to grow" (Jayagopal 
personal conununication, 1983). v j & h . 

The significance of tl, adult education training program 
and the subsequent development of the Masters Degree program! 

2G/ 



255 



at Madras University were described as follows: "He had sown 
the seeds right here. The field activities, the potentiality of the 
department to go to tlie community ... We now have programs 
for industry, programs for ladies and for older people" (Jayagopal, 
personal communication, 1983). 

The Masters' level program at Madras was intended for 
trainers of practitioners in adult education, or those who have 
"sufficient insight into ihe community problems, particularly the 
priority areas of literacy and post- literacy, but who should not go 
with the theory alone" (Jayagopal, personal communication, 1983). 

Jayagopal explained that approximately 85 per cent of India's 
population comprises the "unorganized sector." This represents the 
rural, agricultural sector that lives in villages. Roby played a very 
vital part, including influencing the government of India in the 
National Adult Education Programme in 1978, which was initiated 
in response to the literacy needs of the people. Jayagopal noted 
that "the time was ripe for us, that the university itself would get 
involved in this program in a massive manner" (Jayagopal, 
personal communication, 1983). 

Jayagopal also believed, like so many Indian adult educators, 
that Roby was using adidt education ao a way to reduce 
inequalities. This was Roby's mission, but as Jayagopal said: "He 
did not impose his own ideology on the people. He was more 
participatory in the sense that he allowed us to participate . . . 
maintaining all the time his balance and involving all of us . . . 
He communicated, he noted, he was very natural ... He said 
'Don't leave anybody out, bring everybody. Let them say what 
they want Let them say how they look at adult education' . . . 
Roby knew the people . . . There is a lot of difference in 
knowing the people, and knowing the programs. I have an idea of 
adult education, but I should also know for whom it is intended. 
Such a precarious subject varies from one country to another. The 
thrust and priorities vary in each location. So then the adult 
educator knows the people, the opinion leaders in this area, and 
what drove them. There is a subtle way of working tlirough 
leaders, and with the program" (Jayagopal, personal communication, 
1983). 

In summary, Jayagopal thought that Roby had laid a very 
strong foundation for a teachers' training program, because other 
essential programs in adult education grew out of this. For 
example, Jayagopal extended his work in Madras to include 
continuing education programs for industrial engineers and 
industrial workers. 

Dr. V. S. Mathur, General Secretary of the International 
Confederation of Free Trade Unions, Asian Regional Organizations, 
located in New Delhi, India, focused on Roby's contribution to the 



263 



256 



social change perspective of the Indian condition. He and Roby 
worked closely to align the objectives of the trade union 
movement, and the adult education movement, in India and in 
Asia. They also shared some common values about the role of 
education in society. Mathur explained: "The aim of education is 
to help the personality of the individual, which is perhaps best 
when he or she is given the chances, the opportunities for self 
expression, and that self expression can take hundreds of ways. It 
can be in writing, it can be in speech, it can be in social work, 
it can be in service, and when you are serving others your 
personality develops so much" (personal communication, 1983). 

Mathur continued: "Another thing that must be remembered 
about this is that men and women work best when they are 
participating in co-operative work. By co-operating with each 
other, we are able to achieve much and develop faster; and 
education must take into consideration that it is not merely 
development of tlie intellect It is the condition of certain values 
and the development of character, by which I mean the will to 
be able to live up to your convictions. But all of this will help 
the individual best in a society, or in an organization where he 
has the opportunities to co-operate with others. In isolation you 
don't develop your personality" (personal communication, 1983). 

Mathur regretted that Roby had died too soon, because they 
were in the planning stages of launching co-operative projects in 
adult education, and worker's education; this would have included 
education for personal development as well as labour education. 
The two movements could supplement each other to reach mutual 
goals. Mathur^ described the rationale for the link between the two 
movements: "If you are building up an organization without 
educating the people, thai organization is not going to function 
very effectively, and will not achieve the aims that you have in 
view. So education and organization have to go together. So, 
therefore, I have been connected with both of these movements' 
and I was very happy that Roby shared some of these ideals" 
(personal communication, 1983). 

Roby Kidd and V. S. Mathur often met at meetings of the 
International Confederation of Free Trade Unions, and they v/ere 
working out some plans for education activity among the rural 
people in Udaipur. As one of the previous presidents of the 
Indian Association for Adult Education, Mathur came to know 
Roby more intimately from 1965 to 1982. He summarized his 
perspective of Roby's important contribution in India: "I think his 
main contribution was involving the universities in the field of 
adult education, and he was quite clear about the concept of 
education and literacy ... He appeared to agree with me that 
while literacy is very, very important, it is a means. Literacy is 



257 



not education. It is a means to achieving education. That's one 
contribution that he made. Generally, his contribution was inspiring 
people to do work, and to take a broad view of human affairs" 
(Mathur, personal communication, 1983). 

Furthermore, Roby and Mathur shared a common philosophy 
concemmg access to education for the disadvantaged members of 
soaety: "Education has to be rated in favour of the poor, and 
not in favour of the rich, as it is to-day. And I thiii he 
[Roby] increasingly believed in this. He became aware of this, 
and he started stating this forthrightly, and he did so in the 
UNESCO Conference in Tokyo and in many other places, and I 
thmk it was very, very important" (Mathur, personal 
communication, 1983). 

Mathur viewed this philosophical position as a product of 
transformation in Roby, one he attributed to Roby's own personal 
development The perspective that education should lead to social 
consciousness, meant that the poor would have a powerful 
instrument for achieving their own development - economic and 
soaal. Mathur described how Roby's perspective was affected: 
"You see, as he gradually became more aware of the problems 
and the turmoils - there is no doubt about it, his stay in Jaipur, 
and his travels with us in India and other parts in the developing 
world during and after 1965 ~ did help him to realize that the 
problem was very vast But the whole problem here is that even 
my colleagues in the adult education movement do not realize the 
value of our revelations" (personal communication, 1983). 

Mathur believed, and so did Roby. that education was not 
enough. Action must follow, which would take the form of 
helping the poor to organize themselves in a co-operative effort 
to achieve their goals and expand their thinking. Finally, he 
summarized his image of Roby in this way: "You see, you 
communicate not merely by the excellent words you speak' from 
your mouth. You communicate by your whole personality, and the 
personality of Roby was such that nobody could remain 
unmfluenced. I was very much influenced by him, because every 
time I talked to him, I felt this was a very honest person talking 
to me ... I think he was the person who really influenced the 
pohcy ... He really made the policies of the ICAE "(Mathur, 
personal communication. 1983). 

Two former students of Roby, who are now working at the 
grassroots level in a voluntary organization called Seva Mandir in 
Udaipur, India, described how Roby had ananged for their 
positions at Seva Mandir, and in so doing had changed their lives 
substantially. Drs. Om and Ginny Shrivastava described their 
expenences of Roby as teacher: "He has always been a kind of 
discovery teacher, in the sense that he tells you, and then you 



258 



discover for yourself about how things arw^ . . Roby changed our 
lives in a way . . . [he had a] commitment in seeing people 
grow. If you put people in these conditions [of challenge and new 
opportunity], then they will rise to the occasion, and sometimes, I 
suppose, he must have been v.Tong. . . He selected at least fertile 
minds, as opposed to average ones" (personal communication, 1983). 
The Shrivastavas described how Roby would pui people in touch 
with others to enable them to meet individual goals, but he did 
more than act as a visionary for people and new organizations. 
According to the Shrivastavas he was an action man and an 
implementer. "People, lots of people, can be visionaries; but to be 
the implementer of the stiengthening of a movement [adult 
education] — that is sometliing very few people can do because 
they either get bogged down in making an institution, or they 
only stay at the role of being visionaries and idea people ... It 
isn't the vision but the energy, and the person on-the-spot 
identification and nurturing ... He would go out of his way 
doing things for people ... to introduce people to different 
people" (personal communication, 1983). 

The Shrivastavas also witnessed Roby's ability to integrate 
theory with practice in the field setting, which revealed that his 
teachings and writings were consistent with his actions: "Roby 
stands head and shoulders above other adult educators we know. 
It was his insight into the dynamics between theory and practice, 
and the social issues . . . the balance of keeping the dynamics 
between theory and practice, and implementation in effect in the 
social realm" (personal communication, 1983). 

The Shrivastavas discussed Roby's efforts in building an 
international adult education movement He was troubled about the 
status of adult education, which was obviously poor when he first 
came to India. As they saw it, this was Roby's mission: "He 
made his essential network throughout the world — or throughout 
the selected patterns of the world — where he was moving in 
adult education" (personal communication, 1983). Their view was 
that Roby's biggest achievement lay not in institution- building, but 
in building the institution of adult education on an international 
scale. "When you look at his contribution to adult education, it is 
to the movement Everybody struggles with how you buiid or 
support a movement, because it has to be flexible and dynamic. 
You know lots of people can build organizations, not a 
movement" (Shrivastava. O. & G., personal communication, 1983). 

Roby had persisted in building up an international order, 
which the Shrivastavas suspected was not yet fully in place at the 
time of his death. The reason why he sought to build this 
international order was not solely for the status of adult education, 
but rather, for linking people and their ideas together. Ginny 



2/1 



259 



Shrivastava explained: "I very clearly remember him saying that 
there should be many more channels in the international field 
where people can learn from other people, and that there is a 
definite role that, one should see in learning from each other, and 
[he said:] 'that's what my mission is*" (personal conmiunication, 
1983). 

A very intimate colleague and friend of Roby was the late 
Mohan Sinha Mehta or, as he was affectionately called, Bapu 
(meaning father) Mehta, He was the Vice- Chancellor of the 
University of Rajasthan when Roby came to Jaipur. Roby met 
Mohan in 1961, when Mohan was President of the national Indisin 
Adult Education Association. Mehta was also the founding 
President of the flourishing voluntary agency called Seva Mandir, 
located in Udaipur, India. He had organized the Rtjasthan project 
at the University of Rajasthan, and invited Roby to come as 201 
external consultant in 1964 (after he had invited John Friesen to 
be director of the Colombo Plan project in that same year). 

Mohan described his growing friendship with Roby: "After 
living with Roby for one year in Jaipur, we became very intimate, 
and I came close to him and admired his many personal qualities. 
I saw in actual life a person who rose above the national 
boundaries and national differences or racial differences. You see, 
he was a man in whose company you did not feel what 
nationality he was. His coming was a very great benefit to the 
university" (Mehta, personal conmiimication, 1983). 

Mohan explained how Roby raised the status of adult 
education to a higher place in the university world of India. He 
recalled that Roby was such a broad- minded person, and for this 
reason he managed to enrich the Department of Adult Education. 
Mohan observei that "He had a peculiar nature, what you would 
call universal . . . and he had foresight" (personal communication, 
1983). One of Roby's tangible gifts to Seva Mandir was arranging 
for the funds from the Canadian International Development 
Agency (CIDA) to establish the first library in Udaipur, which 
made such a difference to Mohan Mehta's work. "He was serving 
mankind. It did not matter what colour, or what creed, or what 
religion, or what country, or what race. His contribution was 
valuable for this reason right through the years" (Mehta, personal 
communication, 1983). 

Concerning Roby's international status, Mehta shared his 
perspective of Roby's role at UNESCO. "His work was greatly 
appreciated by UNESCO ... I should think his contribution was 
that he was their expert advisor on the promotion of adult 
education in the world ... He encouraged the policy of 
UNESCO from behind the scenes as it were. He was known to 
people at UNESCO, and they always used him for promoting and 



272 



260 



developing adult education in different parts of the world ... by 
sheer personal qualities and enthusiasm for a good cause in which 
he believed. You see, he was both talented and extremely 
enthusiastic. You find this combination rare in our public life" 
(Mehta. personal communication, 1983). 

Mehta summarized the effect that Roby had made on his 
own personal life, by saying that he became very invigorated after 
he had come into close contact with Roby, particularly with regard 
to Roby's ideas> about the role of the imiversity in promoting 
continuing education in society. Specifically, the university could 
reach out-of-school adults among the rural poor, by providing 
training programs for adult educators who could then work in the 
community. Finally, the professional people could receive upgrading 
and education concurrent with their work activities through the 
university extension department 

Mehta also stressed the importance of Roby's religious 
pledge and its possible effect on Roby's mission. "Roby's religion 
was a social gospel . . . general himianitarian and social work 
cuts across all classes [of religion]. That is the type of religion 
that we should practice and preach, but you have to develop a 
new religion for this" (personal conununication, 1983). 

According to Mohan, Roby's mission was to foster an 
egalitarian society. The social cause was clear: "[He believed that] 
the potentiality of the human should be developed to the fullest, 
for his own benefit and for the benefit of society ... If he had 
lived longer he may have succeeded in influencing policy in 
government" (personal communication, 1983). 

Above adl, Mohan viewed Roby's most important contribution 
as "making adult education a world problem an<^ giving it its 
content and force" (Mehta, personal communication, 1983). The 
purpose of adult education was not well und^jstood by persons in 
government, and Mohan Mehta saw how /.oby was constantly 
trying to educate them. Roby worked hard to convince persons in 
power that literacy is not enough, that one must attend to the 
other aspects of people's lives. Mohan expressed this well when 
he said: "We will not be content to make a man literate, and 
then not consider his ethical life, or his social life, or his other 
civic consciousness" (Mehta, personal communication, 1983). This 
represented a more holistic approach to adult education. He was 
concerned that the potential of the human being should develop 
to the fullest, not only for the individual's own sake, but for the 
benefit of society. 

Mohan had marvelled at Roby's unique ability to be both a 
scholar in his writings, and an action- oriented person. These two 
qualities are seldom seen together and Roby combined them well. 
Thus he could reach people in a variety of ways: through direct 



261 



personal action, and through his teachings, public lectures, and 
writings. 

In summary Mohan Sinha Mehta and Roby Kidd had an 
important mutual influence on each other. They trusted each other 
and shared an important cause. Mehta died three years after 
Roby, and he had this concluding statement about his dear friend 
and colleague: "Roby was one of these great leaders with vision. 
I can see him in that light" (Mehta, personal communication, 
1983). 



Summary of Roby Kidd's Major Contributions to 
Adult Education as Viewed by the Indian Participants 

Almost every participant had a favourable impression of Roby's 
contribution to adult education, but two participants questioned the 
extent of his contribution to the development of adult learning 
theory. 

Roby sought to improve the human condition in India, and 
he used adult education to further this aim. He was one of the 
key players in facilitating a cultural interaction between Canadian 
and Indian adult educators through an exchange of ideas, 
philosophies, and methods of adult education in the Rajasthan 
Project and beyond. Furthermore, he helped to implement a Farm 
Radio Forum program throughout India to foster a system of 
communication in the rural sector. 

In India he had generated faith and enthusiasm in the 
possibilities of the people through introducing an expanded concept 
of adult education. His teachings and personal influence attracted 
bright new members to the field. Fortunately his combined 
theoretical and practical approach was suitable to the Indian 
context He was able to demonstrate how adult education could be 
practiced as an applied profession and discipline within the 
university structure and in the community. Roby's learning theories 
were realistic, and they were consistent with the indigenous nature 
and heritage of Indian culture. 

He will be well remembered in India for the way he 
fostered an understanding about the role of adult education beyond 
literacy training and teacher training in the developing countries. A 
very broad perspective of adult education was in his grasp, and 
for this reason he was known widely among adult educators in 
India as a visionary. In addition to this, he was an activator. He 
planted a seed for the acceptance of adult education as a 
discipline, but also as a potent social force. For example, his 
support of many voluntary agencies, which functioned primarily at 
the grassroots level, strengthened the cause of functional literacy 



274 



262 



and its role in social change. 

While in India he was successful in getting people to 
collaborate with him, which provided a good testing ground for 
the creation of the ICAE, an international o^gal^i^ation containing 
vast differences and ideologies. 

Roby's concept of lifelong learning penetrated curriculum 
development and educational planning in the system of Indian 
education, especially with regard to various training programs for 
rural educators, and graduate programs. His emphasis on the role 
of informal learning added a new dimension to the traditicnal 
concepts of adult learning in the university system. 

Roby strengthened the lines of communication among adult 
educators in India through arranging and supporting national 
conferences and assemblies that could encourage the sharing of 
ideas and implementing better structures of adult education. For 
example, he assisted the establishment of the Asian and South 
Pacific Bureau of Adult Education (ASPBAE), and the organization 
of two national conferences: one conference was held in Mount 
Abu, Rajasthan regarding adult education and the other conference 
was in Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh regarding the extension role of 
Indian universities (See Chapter 10 for more detail about these 
conferences). 

Roby functioned as a model educator who could 
communicate at many levels with the Indian people, rather than 
emulating the already rigid hierarchy of caste privileges. His 
invitation to scholars from other disciplines within tiie University 
of Rajasthan encouraged an open dialogue about the meaning of 
adult education and its relevance to the continuing education of all 
professional groups. This helped to improve their understanding 
and acceptance of adult education at the University. 

The strengthening and support of participatory research 
programs through the ICAE activities illustrates a new approach to 
the evaluation of programs and organizations, and it was a 
relevant methodology for the developing countries. The goal of 
adult education for social and economic development of indigent 
persons placed adult education activities within a public 
(community) forum rather than in the classroom alone. 

Roby helped to open the lines of communication between 
adult educators in India and other developing nations, in order to 
foster cultural and educational exchange and to share common 
problems in their educational systems. In this endeavour he 
demonstrated excellent personal relations and co-ordination skills. 

Roby made contact with the labour education movement in 
India, in the interests of promoting organization for the rural poor, 
and to find common ground between the interests and goals of 
labour education and adult education. 



275 



263 



Above all, he demonstrated an exemplary cross-cultural 
approach in his work and personal life. Roby was able to create 
an international network of communication, and by doing so he 
discovered and nurtured new leaders in adult education. To further 
assist these new recruits, he fostered the establishment of new 
graduate programs that offered training for adult educators. 

The Indian educators knew Roby Kidd as an expert advisor 
in promoting adult education throughout the world and as a 
successful consultant for UNESCO. More than this, he was 
renowned in India as a great humanist who brought good things 
to the people. 



References 

Buttedahl, K. (1968). Seeds of promise: university adult education 
in Rajastharu Vancouver: Department of University Extension, 
The University of British Columbia. 

Doraiswami, U. (1983). How to teach the rural pupils. The Hindu. 
19. 

The Editor. (1962). Canadian farm forum's gift. The Indian journal 
of adult educatioru New Delhi: Indian Association for Adult 
Education. 23. (6). June. 

Jayagopal, R. (1983). Adult and continuing education 

programme of the University of Madras. Indian journal of 

adult education 44. (6). 3-9. 
Kidd, J. R. (1966). The implications of continuous learning. New 

Delhi: Indian Adult Education Association. (Series No. 74). 
(1968). And he who liveo a hundred years. Naya shikshak: 

Professional organizations of teachers. ID. (5). 64-82. 
(1979). The burden of social responsibilitj' and the conscience 

of society. COURIER. Asian- South Pacific Bureau of Adult 

Education. 17. December. 
Mathur, V. S. (1982). People's participation through organizations 

of the rural poor. Jakarta, Indonesia: ICFTU Asian Regional 

Organization. June. 
McLeish, J. A. B. (1978). A Canadian for all seasons. Toronto: 

Lester and Orpen. 
Mehta, M. S. (1969). In J. R. Kidd Education for perspective. 

New Delhi, India: Indian Adult Education Association, v-vii. 



276 



CHAPTER 17 



J. R. KroD: AN INTERNATIONAL LEGACY OF LEARNING 

It is no accident that in his dcxtoral thesis Roby sought to 
understand the function of the Canadian Citizenship Council. An 
understanding of the role of the citizen demanded from him not 
only an inner exploration but a nation- wide and world- wide 
mission that would eventually bring him to the status of an 
internationalist. His legacy of learning was indeed international. 

The concept of adult education for Roby encompassed a 
new social order with citizenship consciousness, which meant that 
individuals would have a greater input into the decisions made by 
their country's leaders. This meant that the citizen would be 
liberated through increased awareness of social problems and would 
be able to make more informed decisions. The focus, however, 
was not just on the individual but on the collective activities of 
citizens with common goals. Never in his travels was a concept so 
vitally potent as ii. the developing countries such as in India, 
where group action on the part of citizens was linked to 
individual survival. 

Roby understood that education is for survival. For example, 
the illiterate Indian in an adult literacy class learns the functions 
of language so that language can then become a veivicle to 
communication, and communication becomes a vehicle for asserting 
rights and ultimately for surviving. But conmiunication also is a 
link to understanding. Through communication individual and group 
needs can be shsired and then acted upon. 

Helping citizens to become more conscious of. and act upon, 
their rights and community needs was one of Roby's essential 
goals of adult education. So it was, in fact, an education to make 
people alive. 

To understand Roby is to understand his family roots, his 
earliest goals and aspirations, and his value system. He was a 
man deeply interested in his own culture. He has spent many 
years as a boy with the Vancouver Y and at Camp Elphinstone. 
Later, he followed his brother John to Sir George Williams 
University in Montreal. John had suggested that Roby could pay 
his way through university by working at the Y because the 



2 77 



265 



family did not have the financial resources to make attendance at 
university possible. Roby's positions in Montreal, as Secretary of 
"boys work" at North Branch Y, and as Program Secretary at 
Notre Dame de Grace, were stepping stones to his subsequent 
career in adult education. His transfer to the Ottawa Y in the 
war years gave Roby an opportunity to meet and participate in 
the evolving national war effort His work in Ottawa, both in the 
Y and as a volunteer on various committee'^, introduced him to 
many citizens' groups. These were a proniinent feature of 
Canadian life during the 1940s and 1950s, which were part of the 
war effort, and part of the burgeoning post- war re- establishment 
activity. Roby was intensely interested in the citizenship issues of 
his time, but this was not completely surprising in view of his 
family upbringing which involved stimulating discussions on 
pertinent social issues. In fact, the family's intellectual and social 
climate seemed to nurture all three of Roby's siblings to become 
very active in the development of Canada. 

To understand Roby's role is to understand the mission of 
his work. As a persevering young man who had succeeded E A. 
Corbett as Director of the CAAE, he carefully observed the lives 
of his mentors who were intimately involved in, and progenitors 
of, Canadian developni:^nL But Roby's mission reached beyond 
Canada, and his concept of being Canadian implied that he would 
become an intemationalisL 

Roby was a good student; he learned lessons from the 
examples which his colleagues had set As Secretary Treasurer of 
the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Councils in Ottawa, 
he rubbed shoulders with government leaders and diplomats. He 
learned what comprised effective action, and he learned how to 
apply principle into practice. 

When Roby joined the Canadian Youth Commission in 1943, 
he again witnessed the examples of some outstanding Canadians: 
Hugh Keenleyside. Chairman; R. E G. Davis; John Robbins, his 
forerunner at the Canada Council; Gregory Vlastos, a philosopher 
from Queens University; George Luxton; and Frank Patten, 
Superintendent of the Ottawa Secondary Schools. At the meetings 
of the Canadian Youth Commission, plans were made for 
cross- Canada hearings where youth groups and individual young 
people could respond to crucial questions formulated and circulated 
by the Conmiission, as well as express their own ideas. Roby had 
good company for formulating and testing out new ideas. 

His close colleague and life mentor, John Robbins, wrote the 
Dependency of Youth, which was a valuable economic and 
demographic profile of Canadian Youth. It probed into the 
attitudes of Canada's youth (McLeish, 1978, 104-105). From 
Robbins and other close comrades, Roby learned about the statutes 



2 78 



266 



of good citizenship and how needed Canadian organizations could 
be established. Roby was an idea- maker, a quality that was 
nurtured by many of these colleagues who. as great Canadians, 
helped to shape a Canadian identity. 

The study participants on the whole believed that the reason 
why Roby strived to be an international citizen was based on 
humanitarian motives, but they had observed that he had a few 
enemies who were suspicious of the speed of his accomplishments 
and wondered if he sought to create a system that would only 
serve his own purposes. Roby was alive with new ideas, new 
experiments, and a momentum that kept him exploring fresh 
approaches and an ever- widening circle of" international contacts. 
The predominant success of his undertakings reinforced his desire 
to begin new projects and new channels of co- operative efforts on 
a world-wide scale. 

In the final analysis we can never plumb the depths of 
Roby Kidd and understand what he set out to do and how he 
did IL But some things are known: he brought a refreshingly new 
scope to adult education, its literature, and its practice. His aims 
and goals were relevant to the needs of the people he had 
helped, his personal impact far-reaching. He lived a life that was 
rich in meaning and purpose, and toward the end of his life he 
returned to his earlier writings in the book. Relentless Verity: 
Education for Being — Becoming — Belonging (Kidd, 1973, pp. 
19-20): "The great tragedy is not death itself, but death without 
meaning. The greater tragedy may be life without meaning. Being 
— Becoming — Belonging is about the meaning of life and the 
meaning of death. Almost everything we have said so far has 
been about finding meaning in living, can we find meaning in 
death?" 

A character study of Roby Kidd reveals remarkable strength 
>yith the problems of ill health, the need to greatly economize 
time, and exceptional creativity in combination with the propensity 
to serve and develop people. Although his life brushed death 
many times, these events served to intensify his efforts and his 
use of time. He was a calculating risk- taker and entrepreneur. His 
life is full of examples which showed him risking the odds in 
favour of gaining the maximum potential out of a situation. For 
example, when he knew that there was a substantial opposition to 
the formaiion of the ICAE, he intensified his efforts until he 
brought about the Councirs formation. This was because he knew 
that the timing was critical in the creation of new enterprises. He 
was a brilliant strategist who appeared not to plan his actions in 
advance, but he did plan with very careful consideration of the 
alternatives. 

Roby*s concept of education was much more expanded in its 



27j 



267 



scope and philosophy than that of most of his colleauges, which 
is evident in his writings: "If in adult education we care about 
our fellows as well as our children, we will immediately begin to 
study and teach in two areas — how zest and enthusiasm for 
living can be practiced, restored, and maintained; and how being 
— becoming — belonging can be fostered in aJl its dimensions. 
These are not impractical or esoteric tasks to be left until all the 
remedial, vocational, and leisure skills training are completed. To 
put it starkly, these educational goals spell life or deatli. And if 
adult educationists are too busy, too unsure, or too blind to take 
the lead, who will?" (Kidd, 1973. p. 21). 

Roby was clear about the kinds of things which were not 
included in his concept of education. He was always cautious of 
people who sought to use education as a means to exploit others, 
and he believed that there was a fine line between education and 
propaganda. He warned about the dangers of some forms of mind 
exploration and development, and of religious indoctrination for the 
sake of individual enhancement, or for the extension of a single 
ego. He was also critical of ostentatious wealth. 

Countless letters, photographs, memoires. and artifacts were 
contributed to this study. Many poems and candid thoughs remain 
vivid in the meaning that they imparted. Satyen Maitre. the 
Director of the Bengal Social Service League, a voluntary adult 
education agency in Calcutta, India, which Roby strongly supported 
and assisted, wrote this in a letter addressed to me; "I remember, 
years ago. I read in the biography of a political activist that 
somebody was trying to dissuade her from over- exertion, as she 
was in failing health. Her reply -^s a quotation from some poet: 
'Your advice, my dear friend, is wonderful. I should cease to live 
so that I might live on*. Roby exemplified this attitude in his 
life. So he died in harness. But what has he left for us? He has 
left for us the memory of a man whose very presence heightened 
our consciousness and enhanced our be'ngs" (Maitre. personal 
communication, 1983). 

Roby's personal trajectories ranged far and wide. They have 
been emphasized again and again in this book. He assisted the 
development of adult education associations in many African. Latin 
American. Asian, Arab and Caribbean countries. He had a special 
liking for Asia, and was the first adult educator to visit the 
Soviet Union, the People's Republic of China, and Vietnam, and 
bring them into the international family of Adult Education 
through membership in the International Council for Adult 
Education (Adiseshiah. 1982). 

In recent years, associations from Ghana. USSR, the Arab 
States, islands of the West Indies and the Pacific, Asia, the 
Americas, and Europe have all become members of the ICAE. 



2S0 



268 



The ICAE is a partnership of individuals who know, in Roby*s 
words, "that even if this were our last day on earth but one, I 
think we might choose to be here, working together for what is 
most human and most enduring** (Gayfer, 1982). 

The value of Roby Kidd*s contribution to adult education in 
Canada, and in more than 83 countries, was expressed in the 
memorial service which was held on March 24th, 1982 in the 
auditorium of the Ontario Institute for Studies in Education. 
Tributes were sent from around the worid from heads of state, 
and Prime Minister Trudeau's personal message to Margaret Kidd 
reflected the regard in which he was held in Government circles 
as well as our sense of loss as a nation. Few occasions have 
brought together such a diverse gathering of friends from all parts 
of Canada and from many countries. 

Lewis Perinbaum reminded us of the task to which he 
committed his full life: the well-being and betterment of the 
human family in Canada and throughout the world, and he 
likened Roby*s leadership to the Athenian leader who said nearly 
two thousand years ago: "I never learned how to tune a harp or 
play the lute, but I know how to raise a small and inconsiderable 
city to glory and greatness" (memorial service, 1982). 

Robert Blakely described his image of Roby Kidd: "There is 
only one currency that passes, unchallenged, unquestioned, through 
all human differences, differences of age and of sex and of race 
and of cultures and of language, and that is obvious goodness. It 
must be genuine goodness, but it must also be obvious. And this 
Roby had. ... In 1959 or 1960 when Roby grappled with his 
cancer, and it was then Hodgkin's disease, fatal in almost all 
cases, suffering against those odds, suffering the nausea of intense 
radiation, Roby finished a book" (memorial service, 1982). 

Budd Hall, Roby's successor as Secretary General of the 
ICAE, extended his tribute by pointing to the vast numbers of 
Roby*s offspring in adult education throughout the world, as well 
as the illustrious company he kept "It has been Roby*s vision, a 
vision which transcended religion and ideology and race; as well 
as his skills in explorations, in entrepreneurship and poetry, which 
have created the forum (for the ICAE). . . Like his view of 
adult education itself, his international work was built to serve the 
cause of social justice on a global scale, the cause of practitioners 
working in isolation everywhere and to build peace. In Montreal 
in the I960 World Conference on Adult Education, which Roby 
chaired, he worked on the declaration, the first principle of which 
said: *Our first problem is to survive. Survival requi/es that the 
countries of the world must learn to live together in peace. Learn 
is the operative word. Mutual respect, understanding, sympathy are 
qualities that are destroyed by ignorance and fostered by 



281 



269 



knowledge' (KJdd, 1974). As we know so well, he was a man of 
action. His writings are filled with quotes which call it forth. 
From Dag Hammarskjold (Markings, 1964), he quoted: 'In our era, 
the road to holiness necessarily passes through the world of 
action', and from the Italian Rosmini (1893): 'The educational act 
is perfect when the truth apprehended by the intellect is felt in 
the heart and expressed in action'" (Hall, memorial service, 1982). 

A final tribute was paid at the Memorial Service by Roby's 
intimate friend and associate, Alan Thomas, who succeeded Roby 
as Director of the CAAE and later on as Chairman of the 
Department of Adult Education at OISEL "Roby knew that Canada 
needed a generation of adult educators. Roby recruited us, he 
nurtured us, he challenged us, and he watched us ... To spend 
time with Roby was always to have one's imagination enlarged, 
one's spirit rekindled. . . Roby was not foolish or naive about 
evil or ignorance or just plain stupidity, but he pitied the people 
in the thrall of those things . . . Others of us, this afternoon, 
have pointed out that when Roby looked up into the world, as 
he did more than most of us, he never saw a vast impersonal 
system. He never saw impenetrable bureaucracies. He never saw 
anything but individuals in certain places; with certain hopes, and 
certain fears, and certain aspirations, and certain backgrounds who, 
if reached, would understand and could, in one way or another, 
affect the course of those bureaucracies. He never gave that up. 
A world without him will be difficult to bear. But a world in 
which he had never lived or had been, would be inconceivable 
. . . he said that the North and South Poles had been reached, 
and he really needed some advice about what he should do next 
Roby climbed a lot of mountains and some of us were able to 
climb them with him, but the funny thing was that whenever we 
got to the top, he always saw more than the rest of us did" 
(Thomas, memoi.dl service, 1982). 

Roby left us many lessons, which he demonstrated in action. 
He left with us the example of the economical use of time, the 
ways that international co-operation could be reached, and concrete 
ways to improve society through individual opportunities for 
learning. He often quoted from the Greek saying: "Carry me and 
I will carry you, and thus we will ascend the mountain," a phrase 
that echoed his own example of living to the fullest extent 
possible. But it was not so much the esoteric advancement of 
theory for theory's sake that Aohy achieved, although he did 
advance learning theory on an international scale, but the 
development of men and women whom he cared about the most 
He visited prison inmates across Canada to find a way to 
introduce a learning system in the correctional services, and he 
was oftentimes the spokesperson for the bereft and disadvantaged 



282 



270 



members of Canadian scxnety and in other countries. Thus, it was 
appropriate that he should quote from the Ghana proverb: "It is 
man who counts. I call upon gold, it answers not I call upon 
cloth, it answers not It is man who counts" (memorial service. 
1982). 

On November 22nd. 1982 Roby was honoured as a Fellow 
of the Ontario Institute for Studies in Education, and Walter 
Pitman presented the award to his widow Margaret with the 
following message. "Six weeks ago to the day. a few of us in 
this room were in the assembly hall of UNESCO in Paris, 
France, on the occasion of the opening session of the International 
Council of Adult Education Conference. There in the presence of 
President Mitlerand. members of the cabinet speaker after speaker 
from every comer of the world spoke to an audience of several 
hundred representatives of 80 nations about the unique, copious 
contribution of J. Roby Kidd as founder of that organization and 
its leading spirit over the past decade. Chairman for the assembly, 
we are to-night honouring a recognized and a distinguished 
educator, indeed a world figure of importance, a man whose full 
impact will only be recognized over the years to come. Further, it 
could not be more appropriate that the Institute for Studies in 
Education should honour J. Roby Kidd. for it was in the earliest 
days of this institution that Roby joined his friends as Chairman 
of the Department of Adult Education. A single acquisition gave 
immediate recognition for the seriousness of this province's decision 
to establish a place for graduate work, research, and for 
community outreach in education. In short it provided its 
credibility throughout the entire educational community, and his 
work in the Department has influenced adult education work 
beyond measure. At least by gathering other distinguished 
colleagues . . . and preparing hundreds of young teachers who 
would join a new art as an adult educator for Canada and in 
other parts of the world. But most of all we are honouring the 
great human being who will be remembered for his unswerving 
purpose, extraordinary determination, uncommon courage, exciting 
vision and with all that a glorious sense of humour and deep 
profound compassion for the learning needs of every person. 
Indeed, those who came into his presence came ultimately to 
respect and love him" (Pitman. Fellow Award Ceremony. 1982). 

Margaret Kidd accepted the honour and she responded to 
Walter Pitman's tribute with the following comments: "I am very 
proud to be representing my husband. I know that we all wish 
he could be here himself to be welcomed into this community of 
scholars. He would be so pleased because he would see it as 
another form of recognition of his beloved field of adult education 
as an academic discipline. Roby was a man of vision and his 



271 



great asset \'as that he was able ground tiiose ideas in 
practice 1 reality. He had to go ?wa,. from Canada to get a 
dociorate in adult education in the 1940s because there were no 
university departments of education which sj^ecialized in adult 
education, rie turned down jobs in , e States and managed to 
come back to Canada and find a job with the CAAE, and when 
Dr. Jackson in 1966 invited him too . . . Chairman of the 
Department of Adult Education, he was delighted. For here he 
was working with a whole group of scholars in education of all 
kinds, not only in professional training but in research and 
development He was proud of the Institute and the College here 
with [which] he was associated . . . We are all joined in the 
continuing quest for better theory and improved practice in 
assisting all people, including ourselves, in the improvement of 
theirs and our most human qualities of learning. Roby and I and 
our family thank you very much for this honour" (M. Kidd, 
Fellow Award Ceremony, 1982). 

In a personal interview conducted by Bill Barnard just three 
days prior to his death, Roby reminisced about his formative years 
in the rural conununity of Gibsons, British Columbia. He said this 
about the problems he faced in Canadian society during the 
thirties and forties: "I didn't see such a great difference between 
the local community and the national community" (Kidd, personal 
communication, 1982). Wherever a nucleus of people would meet, 
the human problems were common in the eyes of Roby, and he 
saw no boundaries between rural, national and even international 
communities where the human condition needed improvement He 
could transcend cultural boundaries and interpersonal differences 
and see their conmionalities. 

The clue to Roby*s success as an international diplomat is 
found in the lessons he learned, which were described in that 
same interview on March 18th, 1982. Roby recalled the events: 
"When I was working in the area of the Citizen's Forum, where 
we were debating regularly public issues, I resigned from the CCF 
party. I think Donald MacDonald thought I should not have done 
that, but I did. figuring that if we were dealing as technically 
. . . with the vital issues of public discussion ... in order not 
to be compromised on any of them, so that we would deal 
seriously with controversy, then I should not have belonged to 
some organization that seemed to have taken a stand on all of 
the issues . . . And not wanting to cut oneself off by it. by 
position. That's the thing that hurt me most about pacifism- I 
thought the stand was right, but it cut me off. Taking an absolute 
position on alcohol, which I did for a while, was probably right 
from one point of view, but cut me off from me. And that hurt, 
you know. That seemed wrong. I can take some pretty positive 



284 



272 



positions now without interfering with human interaction. But that 
was the test stone, the litmus paper for a good many decisions, 
whether or not it encouraged communication, communion with 
other people, or not And if it didn't, if it denied it, then maybe 
there was something wrong" (Kidd, personal communication, 1982). 

Roby tried not to offend the position of aiiy racial group 
or political ideology, because this contradicted the goals and 
philosophy toward which he was working in adult education. The 
tributes from participants in thi^ study, as well as from those 
already cited, provided evidence that Roby achieved his goals of 
linking people together in a community of understanding with 
regard to adult education, i^oby did not compromise his own 
views for the sake of consensus, but he would and could sacrifice 
his own personal views for the sake of being op«,n to new ones. 
He usually withheld his own point of view in order to gather 
new information in the act of learning. Roby was the best of 
learners because of his ability to facilitate interaction between 
himself and others. This yielded a roster of international contacts 
in adult education. Through bringing people together, Roby 
facilitated the founding of an international commimity of adult 
educators through the International Council for Adult Education. 
Roby exemplified world citizenship, both in his development of 
theory related to cross-cultural comparative education studies, and 
in his journeys as a consultant and exemplary practitioner. 

In April 1982, the Indian Journal of Adidt Education paid 
tribute to his "Life of Commitment," and the evidence of the 
gifts to his comrades became obvious once more. "Immense indeed 
would be the richness of a man's life who endeavoured to bring 
meaning to other people's life. For, there is no cause nobler than 
dispelling ignorance to make people self-dependent" (Kavoori. 
1982). 

In conclusion, the boundaries of Roby Kidd*s quest were 
limitless, which is reflected in his New Year's letter to his 
comrades in January 1982: "The North and South poles have 
been discovered and Mount Everest climbed, so I am open to 
suggestions about what to do next" The mission was certainly 
clear in his mind, which made him different from the rest of us. 
"Whoever wants to travel to the Moon or to Venus is welcome 
to it, as long as it isn't me. That's not the adventure I crave. 
Because I have discovered that there are other quests, other 
voyages that hold greater excitement; namely, searching the 
thought and feeling of men of all ages expressed through the arts, 
how man gets along with man with all the terrors and 
possibilities, and, most perilous of all perhaps, how one comes to 
grips with the exploration of oneseir (Kidd, personal 
correspondence, January 1982). 



273 



This vision, which to a great extent became reality for Roby 
but was and would always be an unfinished job. marked him as 
one of the most ambitious adult educators of his time, in line 
with the calibre of ideals of Illich, Freire, and Vanier, all of 
whom sought to improve the human condition. 



References 

Adiseshiah, M. S. (i982). Roby Kidd - A unique adult educator. 

Indian journal of adult education. 43. (4). 4-5. 
Dutta, S. V. (1982). Roby - The greatest adult educator of the 

century. Indian journal of adult education. 43. (4). 6-7. 
Gayfer, M. (1982). A legacy of learning: Tributes to Roby Kidd. 

Convergence. XY. (1). 65-73. 
Hammarskjold, D. (1964). Markings. London: Faber and Faber. 23. 

108. 

Kavoori J. C. (1982). J. R. Kidd - A life of commitment 
Indian journal of adult education. 43. (4). 3-4. 

Kidd, J. R. (1973). Relentless verity: Mucation for being — 
becoming — belonging. Syracuse: Syracuse University. 

(1974). A tale of three cities, Elsinore- Montreal-- Tokyo- the 

influence of three UNESCO World Conferences upon the 
development of adult education. Syracuse, New York: 
Syracuse University. (Landmarks and new horizons in 
continuing education). 35. 

McLeish, J. A. B. (1978). A Canadian for all seasons. The John 
Robbins story. Toronto: Lester and Orpen. 

Roi^iiiinl Serbati, A, (1893). (trans. Mrs. William Grey). The ruling 
principle of method applied to education. Boston: Heatt. 

Singh, A. (1982). J. R, Kidd — Some recollections. Indian journal 
of adult education. 43. (4). 5-6. 



286 



APPENDICES 



2Hi 



ERIC 



277 



APPENDIX 1 

QUESTIONNAIRE DESIGN 

A total of 88 items were clustered into sections of the 
questionnaire according tc major themes (See Appendix lA). An 
open-ended set of questions at the end enabled participants to 
elaborate on their responses to the fixed choices. 'fhe 
questionnaire included a two- item evaluation of its content and of 
the study methodology. 

A pilot test was completed on 25 participants in the 
Toronto- Hamilton region, and its validity was rated as adequate 
(Appendix IB). The questionnaire's test-retest reliability showed a 
Pearson correlation co-efTideint of .85. 

An abbreviated form of the study proposal was mailed to 
the participants for background information before personal 
interviews were arranged and questionnaires were completed- 



288 



278 



APPENDIX lA 
J. R. KIDD QUESTIONNAIRE (Abbreviated) 
Section I 

The following items concern Dr. Kidd's contribution to 
organizational development. Please rate his contribution using the 
following scale: 

0 = unable to assess; 

1 = detrimental/negative effect; 

2 = no contribution; 

3 = low contribution; 

4 = medium contribution; 

5 =^ high contribution; 

6 = very high contribution. 



1. The development of policy. 

2. The development of philosophy. 

3. The identification of goals and objectives. 

4. The facilitation of an increased quality of educational 
opportunities for adults. 

5. The facilitation of an increased quantity of educational 
opportunities for adults. 

6. The facilitation of communication among persons. 

7. The facilitation of an application of effective adult learning 
principles. 

Section n 

The following items concern the scope of Dr. Kldd's contribution 
to adult cducatioru Please rate each item using the scale in 
Section 1. 

1. The expansion of the scope/depth of adult education. 

2. The facilitation of the development of a national adult 
education community. 

3. The facilitation of the development of an international adult 
education community. 

4. Major contributions may have included the following: social 
development, political developnient, institutional development, 
theoretical development, individual (of persons) development 



279 



Section m 

The following items concern Dr. Kidd's contribution to adult 
learning theory. Please rate each item using the scale in Section I. 

1. Contribution of new adult learning theory. 

2. Synthesis of an already existing set of theories of adult 
education. 

3. Contribution to the curriculum development of adult 
education. 

4. Contribution of practical theories. 

5. Contribution of advanced research methods that were 
appropriate to adult education. 

6. Publication and dissemination of knowledge about changing 
practices of adult education. His published work was: 
systematic (methodical, comprehensive, thorough). valid 
(accurate, realistic, defensible), specific (clear. not 
overgeneralized), relevant, inspirational. 

Section IV 



The following items concern Dr. Kidd's practice of adult 
education. Please rate each item using the scale in Section I. 
Please rate his proficiency in the following roles: 



1. 


adult educator/ teacher. 


2. 


consultant 


3. 


administrator/leader. 


4. 


social scientist/researcher. 


5. 


professional writer. 


6. 


orator/public speaker. 


7. 


overall scholar. 


8. 


innovator. 


9. 


social activist 


10. 


Practice of adult education was congruent/consistent with 
theories of and writings about adult education. 


11. 


Facilitated the training of effective adult educators. 



Section V 



The following statements may reflect Dr. Kidd's maj(^ aims and 
goals of adult education. First circle "D" for disagree or "A" for 
agree, and if you agree then rate the extent to which he achieved 
these goals using the scale in Section I. 



280 



1. Adult education should provide forums for discussion and 
communication among citizens. 

2. Adult education should facilitate national identity and unity. 

3. Adult education should facilitate international communication. 

4. Adult education should stimulate social action. 

5. Adult education should promote both formal (institutional) 
and informal (non-instituti'^nal) modes of learning. 

6. Adult education should aid the personal development of 
individuals. 

7. Adult education is a basic right of every human being, 
including every creed, race, socio- economic, and civil status 
represented. 

8. Adult educators and politici.^ s should work co-operatively 
toward the achievement of common purposes. 

9. Adult education organizations should be eclectic (broad) in 
political purpose and membership; that is, they should not 
reflect partisan (biased) aims. 

10. Adult education organizations should be independent of 
government control. 

Section VI 

The following items concern Dr. Kidd's cross- cidtural and 
comparative approach io adult education Please rate each 
statement using the scale in Section I. 

1. Sensitivity to the needs, feelings, mores, and differences of 
your own culture. 

2. Demonstration of an approach to adult education that was 
appropriate to your culture. 

3. Contribution of an effective comparative adult education 
approach. 

4. Facilitation of the development of adult education activities 
in your community. 

5. Demonstration of an appreciation ??nd promotion of the arts 
in your culture. 

6. Demonstration of an appreaation and promotion of scientific 
development in your culture. 

7. Demonstration of an ability to communicate with persons of 
different creed, ethnicity, socio-economic, and power status. 

Section Vn 

The following items concern Dr. Kidd's influence upon your own 
life and career. Please rate each statement using the scale in 
Section I. 



2^U 



281 



The advancement of your professional career through: 

1. encouragement 

2. serving as advocate (spokesman). 

3. guidance/counselling. 

4. active assistance. 

His teaching influenced the direction of your: 

5. personal life. 

6. value system. 

7. career development 

8. theories of adult education. 

9. practice of adult education. 

Section VID 

The following ^laibutes and capabilities may describe some of Dr. 
Kidd's personal qualities or characteristics. Please agree or disagree 
with these items using the following scale: 

0 = unable to assess; 

1 = strongly disagree; 

2 = disagree; 

3 = agree; 

4 = strongly agree. 



1. compassionate/sensitive 

2. fair in judgement 

3. able to manoeuvre around restricting rules and regulations 

4. animateur/change agent 

5. idealistic 

6. thorough 

7. committed to a task's completion 

8. patient/not easily provoked to anger 

9. giacious/lactful in personal relationships 

10. kind, giving 

11. enthusiastic, chn^smatic 

12. personally ackr.: wledged the human worth and strengths of 
individuals 

13. had above average foresight and vision 

14. had above average intelligence 

15. offered constructive criticism 

16. flexible 



282 



Section DC 



The following items concern Dr. Kidd's overall contribution to the 
field of adult educatioru They represent summary statements. Please 
rale them with the scale in Section I. 

1. Facilitation of the overall development of your organization 

2. Facilitation of the overall scope of adult education 

3. Overall contribution to adult learning theory 

4. Overall demonstration of effective practice ol adult education 

5. Overall contribution to cross- cultural/comparative approaches 
to adult education 

6. Overall impact upon your own life and career 

7. Overall impact of his personal qualities upon the field of 
adult education. 



Please give an overall appraisal of these items using the following 
scale. This will assist the researcher to determine the effects of 
the research methods upon the participants. 



1. Please give your overall appraisal of this questionnaire. 

2. Please give your overall appraisal of the appropriateness of 
this research method for the J. R. Kidd study. 



Section X 



0 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 



undecided; 
major problems; 
minor problenrs; 



adequate; 
very good; 
excellent 



2.U 



283 



APPENDIX IB 

ASSESSMENT OF VALIDITY OF J.R. KIDD QUESTIONAIRE 



1. In general, are all of the questions appropriate to a study 
of Dr. Kidd's contribution to adult education? 

Yes No 

If not, which questions and/or sections are not appropriate? 
Please explain. 

2. Do the questions make sense? Aie they clearly written 
without jargon language? 

Yes No 

If not, which questions and/or sections are unclear. Please 
explain. 

3. Would persons from a variety of cultures and occupations be 
al.e to understand and respond to these questions? 

Yes No 

If not, which questions and/or sections are inappropriate? 
Please explaia 

4. Do all questions reflect the objectives of the study proposal 
(enclosed)? 

Yes No 

If not, which questions do not reflect the study objectives? 
Please explain. 

5. Is the questionnaire comprehensive? 
Yes No 

If not, what questions are missing concerning Dr. Kidd's 
contribution to the field of adult education? 

6. Do the items in each section relate or correspond well to 
each other in the overall meaning of the section? 

Yes No 

If not, which questions do not correspond with those in the 
same section? 

7. Are the questions very representative of Dr. Kidd's most 
important achievements? 

Yes No 

If not, please give suggestions: 



Are you contented with the ways in which the questions are 
asked and the way the questionnaire has been designed? 
Yes No 

If not, please explain specifically and then give suggestions 
for improvement. 

Are any of the questions redundant? 

Yes No 

If so, which questions are redundant? 

Do you have any other difiiculties with the questionnaire? 

Yes No 

If so, please explain and give suggestions: 



2:Jo 



285 



APPENDIX 2 

QUESTIONNAIRE FINDINGS 

There was a 78 per cent return rate for the questionnaire. In 
most cases it was mailed to the participants within the week 
following their personal interview. Some of the participants' reasons 
for non- response were: they were out of town and did not have 
time to complete the questionnaire within the 3- month return 
period, it was too soon to properly appraise KJdd's contribution, 
they thought the questionnaire was redundant to the personal 
interview, and in a few cases it was felt that the questionnaire 
wa^ am inappropriate data- collection tool. 

The findings in Diagram lA indicate that the participants 
rated the questionnaire predominantly as adequate, good or very 
good, and Diagram IB shows that it was rated overall as an 
appropriate tool for the study. With respect to the contents and 
design of the questionnaire (Diagram lA), 18 per cent rated minor 
to major problems, 33.3 per cent rated it as adequate, 46.2 per 
cent rated it as very good to excellent, and 2.6 per cent were 
undecided. As far as the appropriateness of the questionnaire was 
concerned (Diagram IB), 20.5 per cent rated it as having minor to 
major problems, 25.6 per cent rated it as adequate, 46.1 per cent 
rated it as very good to excellent, and 7.7 per cent were 
undecided. 

Overall the participants valued the use of the questionnaire 
only when it was used before or after a personal interview, so 
that they could elaborate on the context of their questionnaire 
responses. 

Diagram 2 shows the mean scores on all major variables 
which were tested in the questionnaire, and portrays the high and 
low points of Roby's contributions as viewed by the study 
participants. The questionnaire was scored on a 6- point scale, with 
0 = unable to assess, 1 = detrimental or negative effect, 2 = 
no contribution, 3 = low contribution, 4 = medium contiibution, 
5 = high contribution, and 6 = very high contribution. The 
highest mean score was 5.45 for Roby's personal characteristics, 
while the lowest mean score was 4.17 for his practice of adult 
education. In general all the scores were very high and the range 
of scores was small. Generally, participants viewed Roby's 
contribution to adult education very favourably. 

A more detailed examination of the questionnaire responses, 
found in Diagrams 3 to 9, reveals the scores for Roby's 
contributions to organization development, scope of adu' educnt.^ i, 
adult leamir ^ theory^ adult education pT-act . e. ros^- '\ \r.\. 
approach, xin?^' > xht imp . c pti qualities 



236 



286 



or character. All questionnaire scores have been rounded ofT to 
the nearest percentage point in the diagrams. 

Diagram 3 portrays Roby's contribution to organization 
development, and depicts a range of scores which vary from 10.3 
per cent of participants indicating no contrbution, to 30.8 per cent 
indicating a very high contribution, ^ at one alf of the 

participanis rated Roby ^ .on ^ aspect of his work, 

while the other hal.' . mm mediocre to low, or gave no 
rating at all. However, it appears that Roby made a substantial 
contribution to organization development, and the interviews 
substantiated this finding to a greater extent than the 
questionnaires. 

Roby's scope of adult education was rated very highly by 
56.4 per cent of the participants, as shown in Diagram 4. The 
range of scores for this variable was small, showing little 
controversy about his scope of ideas, broad-minded aims, and 
creative work. 

The responses regarding the contribution to adult learning 
theory, as shown in Diagram 5, were generally consistent w:th the 
interview data. The participants viewed Roby's principal 
contribution as a synthesis of existing theories, the application of 
theories from other discipli*ies which helped to shape adult 
education into an applied profession, and the formation of new 
theory related to comparative education studies. Fifty- nine per cent 
of the participants gave a high or very high score to his 
contribution to adult learning theory. Thus ii may be concluded 
that while he may not have developed a great deal of new 
theory, he advanced and facilitated the development of theory in 
the r^eld. 

Diagram 6 shows that Roby's practice of adult education 
was rated highly or very highly by 74.4 per cent of participants, 
and only 5.1 per cent rated it as a low contribution. The 
interview findings agree with this rating: most participants saw a 
consistency between his theories and his application of them in 
practice. Overall his practice was rated as highly effective. 

One of Roby's greatest skills is shown in the ratings for his 
cross-cultural approach, illustrated in Diagram 7. Sixty- four per 
cent of the participants saw this as a very high contribution, a- d 
28.2 per cent rated it as high. The interview Oat;^ -otvorred with 
this finding, ar ^ Roh " foTnr.t:^jrKi '^c >.remati.:^al Council for 
Advit Educ - J vva^) it- triOb. frequcnily cfs being his best and 
:bi r.^- ^'^^^ .iU5»- cultural achievement 

L ad^, .11 8, Roby's personal impact upon the lives of the 
participants revealed an interesting range of scores. This variable 
may have been one of the most difficult to rate because personal 
impact is perhaps better evaluated after a number of years have 



2:JV 



287 



passed. While Roby*s overall personal impact was rated as very 
positive, the scores on this item were not as high as others. 

On the whole his personal impact was substantially positive 
for 59 per cent of the participants. Furthermore, the interview 
data indicated that whenever his influence was felt, the influence 
was strong. Participants who, though few in number, had assessed 
Roby*s influence as negative, felt this strongly; but, against this, 
more than half the participants retained strong positive sentiments 
about his personal impact. He has been described as an animateur 
and activist by more than 50 per cent of the participants, 
suggesting that his influence was generally invigorating. Resistance 
or enthusiam is engendered by a strong leader, and Roby*s 
animating quality was viewed by a large number of participants as 
"electric" and "contagious." For a very small number of 
participants he was seen as aggressive and overpowering, albeit 
captivating. 

In Diagram 9, Roby*s personal qualities have been rated 
very highly by 59 per cent of participants. Ninety per cent 
recognized him as a facilitator, because They believed his personal 
qualities enhanced the accomplishment of his objectives. Although 
the questionnaire data yielded a mean score of 3.7 on a 4-point 
scale, or a highly positive scorp for Roby*s administrative skills, 
some of the interview responses identified these administrative 
skills as one of the weakest and most controversial areas of his 
work. 

Finally, a more detailed picture of Roby*s personal impact is 
presented in Diagram 10. This shows the fluctuations of scores for 
each of the selected roles. Because *he interview data revealed 
personal impact to be one of the most enduring facets of Kidd*s 
influence, it deserves fmther attention. The mean scores ranged 
from 3.9 to 5.3 on a 6-point scale, and were generally medium 
to high. The scores on this variable may have been affected by 
the ratings of Roby*s personal qualities because one can expect an 
interrelationship between them. The interview data reflected a 
much stronger ano' more vivid image of his positive impact upon 
the lives of the participants than the questionnaire findings 
indicated. 

Although the questionnaire data specified some measure of 
the impact, they were neither comprehensive nor specific with 
respect to all of his contributions. Instead, the interview data in 
Part II dealL with the personal context in the participants* own 
descriptions of ^heir experiences and thoughts about Roby KJdd. 

The highest rating was given to Roby*s role in the 
advancement of the participants* own careers through active 
encouragement However, a relatively low score was given to the 
impact of his teaching upon the participants. The concept 



288 



"personal influence" is open to interpretation. The meaning of this 
term may vsoy from culture to culture. The questionnaire was not 
pilot tested for its "culture free" or culture specific qualities. 



Comparative Analysis of the Indian and Canadian Findings 

When the frequencies of scores for each major variable on the 
questionnaire were compared among a total of 13 Indian 
participants and 23 Canadian participants, no significant difference 
was found (p less than or equal to .05). The statistical significance 
of the difference in scores for each component is shown in the 
following p values: 

P Values for Scores on Major Variables 



Organization Development: p = .9? 

Scope of Contribution: p = .95 

Adult Learning Theory: p = .33 

Adult Education Practice: p = .69 

Aims and Goals: p = .40 

Cross- Cultural Approach: p = .59 

Personal Impact: p = .70 

Personal Qualities/Character: p = .98 

Overall Contribution: p = .13 

Appraisal of Questionnaire: p = .62 



These findings closely resemble those of the interview 
transcripts, in which Roby's contribution to aduli education was 
viewed as being consistent from Canada to India. 

The majority of participants described him as very stable 
and reliable in his personality and work. They coulc rely upon 
his judgement because he niaintained an unswerving commitn^.ent 
and high calibre of application in his personal and professional 
relationships. In conclusion, the questionnaire and interview data 
expressed a consistently strong testament with respect to the way 
Roby and his achievements were perceived. 



Limitations of the Study 

Although the interviews and questionnaires provided cross- validation 
and two consistent images of Roby Kidd's contribution, problems 
arose over the use of a questionnaire in this kind of study. As 



289 



with all questionnaires, only selected issues could be addressed, 
and these issues did not appear equally relevant to all participants. 
A fixed choice response with numerical ratings could not include 
all possible variables, and the context and meaning of each choice 
had to be interpreted by each participant; thus, the meaning of 
each reply could conceivably vary from one participaxit to another. 
Also, it is difficult to construct a questionnaire that is cultiu-ally 
neutral. 

Although the questionnaire was easy to score and analyze 
with a set of affirmative statements, the lack of negative 
statements may have posed some bias by compelling the 
participants to respond in a favourable way. Furthermore, the 
questionnaire was designed to assess Roby's contribution, and this 
placed an evaluative meaning on the study which in some cases 
elicited an unnecessary value judgment about him as a person. 

One must exercise great caution in forming definitive 
statements from findings that are drawn from a structured 
questionnaire approach. The interview data provided a useful 
context to substantiate interview ratings, so that the questionnaire 
findings functioned as a summary of most interview comments. 
The findings are also limited by the small sample size, and the 
general limitations of questionnaire instruments. 

One of the many helpful things that Roby did in the field 
of adult learning theory was to furnish a philosophical framework 
within which adult educators could develop. The passage quoted 
below is a reminder of his open-minded approach to research and 
evaluation. His support of multi- methods, rather than one single 
method, sheds light on the potential limitations of, and possible 
directions for, adult education research. At the same time, it offers 
a place for the research approach employed in this study. 

It is equally obvious that since goals are so many and 
varied, no single mode of enquiry will suffice. One of 
the least profitable exercises that dominated 
comparative education for a decade or more was the 
search for a basic method. Clearly multi- methods are 
required, ch osen in relation to multi- goals. ... Of 
course, we do not denigrate any efforts to make 
comparing more systematic where possible, to develop, 
select, and order data that can be expressed in 
computational forms, to free oneself of one's own 
cultural biases. But these are efforts not at all 
inconsistent with the acceptance of multi- methods: they 
are simply criteria to be applied in the selection of 
methods (Kidd, 1975). 



Sou 



290 



References 

Cochrane, N. J. (1985). A cross cultural coin, in'<^on of J, R. 

kiO contribution to adult cduca^' -n, IhJian journal of 

nr^nU education. 46 (3). 2-13. 
Kidd, J. K. -1975). Comparative adult educa^-oii. The first decade. 

In Bern - r . Kidd, J. R.. anM Kulich, J, (Eds.). 

Comparand ^ ztiuiies in adult education. an anthology. 

Syr. Mse, New York: Syracuse University. (Publications in 

Conur nrir Euucation 12). 



3 i 



iigtam 1 A 



ITEM X-1. APPUISAL OF QUESTIONAIRE 



Mumbcr of Pariicipants pfi Response 



Number of Participants 



16 



12 



4 - 



w 



X 





'mi 

mm 



Mi 




Undecided Maj.Prcblcm Min.Problen Adequate Very Good Excellent 



ERIC 



Response 
H ■ 39 



3 ''2 



H 



Diigrain I P 



ITEM X-2. QUESTIONNAIRE APPROPRIATENESS 



Number of PjnlcipsnM per Response 



Number of Participanti 






mm?. 



iili 
iili 

liiil 



life 

||||| 

fill 







; 




; 


ill 


\ 








mm 




• 




i 








! 




t 
















iP 













Undecided Mij.Problefn Mln.Problem Adequate Very Good Excellent 



N 
N 

Rejponje 



ERIC 



h6 



N = 39 



DUgrafn 2 

MEAN SCORES OF MA)OR VARIABLES 




Mean Score 



ES3 



:3 



Or|.nl»tlon Scope Practice Goals xCultur.l Learning Influence Overall Character 



Major Variables 

0 



d'4 

o 

ERIC 



ITEM IX-1. ORGANIZATION DEVtLOPMENT 



PercenUge o( Pirticipants 




ITEM IX-2. SCOPE OF ADULT EDUCATION 
Pcrtcntjge of Pirticipints 



High, -11% 




None, 3% 



Very High, 55* | 

o 

ERIC 



Pilgrim S 

ITEM IX-3. ADULT LEARNING THEORY 

Percentige of Participants 




ITEMIX-4. ADULT EDUCATION PRACTICE 
Percentage of Participants 




ITEM IX-5. CROSS-CULTURAL APPROACH 
Pcrccnugt of Particip.inU 




ERIC 



ITEM IX-6, PERSONAL IMTACT 
Percentage of Pirticipants 



Medium, 18^ 




Very High, 31% 

3ii) 



Di)gfim ') 

ITEM IX-7. IMPACT OF PERSONAL QUALITIES 
Percentage of Participants 



High, M 




ITEM VII. 1-9. MEAN PERSONAL INFLUENCE 



Mein Score 



6 - 



i 

m 



U4 

K 

m 
i 

■Vir: 



m 
m 



Mi 



p 



il 



i 

m 



EncourigementVilue Advocacy Guidance Perjonal Practice Assistance Career Theoretical 



ERIC 



Area of Influence 




302 



APPENDIX 3 

INTERVIEW PROCEDURE AND METHOD OF ANALYSIS 

Interview Procedure 

All interviews were conducted in the participant's home or office 
and began with an explanation of the study design and the list of 
topics to be discussed. These were the same topics, which were 
outlined as major themes, in the questionnaire. As principal 
investigator, I conducted all interviews to ensure a consistent 
approach, and to familiarize myself directly with the participants in 
me role of a participant- observer. Most of the topics chosen for 
the interview and the questionnaire we.'e wide-ranging to ensure 
that no essential theme would be overlooked. 

_ The participants usually spoke openly about their experiences 
with Roby; however, they often focused upon topics that were 
relevant to their own experiences. This meant that all the topics 
hsted as major themes in the questionnaire were not necessarily 
covered in all of the interviews. Hindsight suggests it would have 
been better if the participants had been mailed a list of interview 
topics in advance in order to prepare them for the questions 
Also the interviews might have yielded more focused information 
if the participants had been selected according to their area of 
expertise relating to a specific topic and the corresponding time 
penod in Roby's life. Because of the broad range of subjects 
selected, some participants had more knowledge about certain topics 
than others. Many of them commented that the interview schedule 
was too extensive in its scope, and it required a very intimate 
knowledge of Roby's work. 

In view of the above situation. I decided to follow the 
preferences of each member of the study, and focused attention 
only on some of the given topics abo it which he or she was 
most knowledgeable and interested. 



Analysis of the Interviews 

Thematic content analysis consisted of a quasi grounded theory 
approach which described the highlights of data using the 
participant's own words (Glaser & Strauss. 1967). Interpretations 
were drawn from these descriptions, but the main intention was to 
represent the participants' views of Roby's work. 

The data that were not used were either redundant, 
represented what seemed to be minor points about Roby's work 
or were briefly expressed by only one participant on one occasion' 



303 



Therefore, the information reported in Part II represents mainly 
the common perspectives among the participants. In addition, when 
one participant's strong point of view stood in opposition to the 
viewpoints of other p-uticipants, this opposing viewpoint was 
reported. 

Using the grounded theory approach, categories of date are 
usually identified and then arranged into themes (Glaser & Strauss, 
1967). However, in this study, the themes were identified prior to 
the study. These themes included: organization development, scope 
of contribution, adult learning tlieory, adult education practice, 
major aims and goals, cross- cultural approach, personal 
qualities/character, personal influence/impact, and overall 
contribution. These formed the principal variables in the interview 
data; however, some participants pointed out one other theme that 
had been overlooked. 

One topic that had not been pre- selected, which was 
sometimes introduced in the interviews, was Roby's overall 
motivation for his work. Many participants were quite interested in 
knowing whether or not Roby had an overall plan, such as a 
or.-^ year or five-year goal, and whether or not he evaluated the 
achievement of his goals. Thus the motivation for and strategy of 
Roby's work were discussed as an important theme in Part II, 
although this topic was discussed informally with only a small 
number of the participants. 



Reference 

Glaser, B. G. and Strauss. A. L. (1967). The discovery of 
grounded theory: Strategies for qualitative research, Chicago. 
Ihnois: Aldine Publishing Company. 



305 



SELECTED BIBUOGRAPHY 

List of References to the Published Writings of J. Kidd 

The following is a list of references to works prepared by J. R. 
Kidd and published from 1942 to 1982. Because of the number of 
his published articles, not all are included. In Food jar Thought 
and Conyergence there are articles not listed here, some of which 
are not signed 

The purpose of the list is to provide citation references to 
his major works, so that persons v/ishing to use them as 
references can do so. 

The references are arranged in chronological order by year 
of publication. The serial numbering is designed to be used with 
the title and author indexes provided, and to permit additions to 
the references, 

1942 

42.01 Citizens are made- not bom. Survey midmonthly, 2S. 

135-136. 

42.02 A new deed for city children. Montreal: Notre Dame de 

Grace Young Mens Christian Association. 

1944 

44.01 A study of the influence of Dn H, Af. Tory on educational 
policy in Canada. Unpublished master's thesis, 
Montreal: McGill University. 

1945 

45.01 New ways of learning, Ottawa: Canadian Council of 

Education for Citizenship. 

45.02 (Ed.). Community councils by M. G. Ross. Ottawa: 

Canadian Coxmcil of Education for Citizenship. 

194o 

46.01 (Ed.). An experiment with film forums, conducted by the 

Ottawa YMCA Public Affairs Committee. Ott'^:wa: 
Young Mens Christian Association. 

46.02 Audio visual aids for discussion. Food for thought (8). 

40-41. 

46.03 with Kidd, J. P. (Eds,). Community centers. Ottawa: 

Canadian Council of Education for Citizenship. 

1947 

47.01 A study to formulate a plan for the work of the Canadian 



306 



Citizenship Council. New York: Columbia University 
(Thesis EcLD.). 

47.02 Canadian students in the U.S. are needed here. Saturday 
night. ^. July. 10. 

1948 

48.01 Films for adult education. Food for thought. (6). 40. 

48.02 A preliminary report on personnel problems in adult 

education, Toronto: University of Toronto, Ontario 
College of Education. 

48.03 with Strauss, L. H. Look, listen and learn. A manual on 

the use of audio- visual materials in informal education. 
New York: Association Press. 

48.04 with Strauss, L. H. Adult education in Canada. Adult 

education. 21. (1). 6-11. 

48.05 Adult education and the C.A.A.E. Canadian union. 22. 

August 180-181. 



1949 

49.01 (Ed,). Survey of programme materials. Toronto: Canadian 

Association for Adult Education, Joint Planning 
Commission (1950 and 1951 Revisions were published). 

49.02 First Canadian film awards. Saturday night. M. July. 2-3. 

1950 

50.01 Fore\ Drd In Survey of film services in Canada. Toronto: 

Joint Planning Commission, Canadian Association for 
Adult Education. 

50.02 (Comp.). Adult education in Canada. Toronto: Canadian 

Association for Adult Education. 

50.03 Adult education and the school. Toronto: Canadian 

Association for Adult Education. 

50.04 Was Mr. Carnegie right? Canadian business. 23. December. 

44, 92. 

50.05 Some problems of film utilization. CLA bulletin. 1. 

November. 72-15. 

50.06 Foreword In D. Smith, Survey report on labour education in 

Canada, (p. 1). Toronto: Canadian Association for 
Adult Education. 

50.07 Learn and like it Canadian life. 1 (4). 25. 

1951 

51.01 with Storr, C. B. Film utilization: A handbook for leaders. 

Toronto: Canadian Association for Adult Education. 

51.02 with Storr, C. B. L' education populaire par le film. 

Montreal: ACEA. 



3 Id 



307 



51.03 Giving has its problems too. Canadian business, 24. October. 

38-39. 96-97. 

51.04 What needs to be done about citizenship. In Responsible 

citizenship in fifty- one, (pp. 45-51). Ottawa: Canadian 
Citizenship, 

1953 

53.01 Pictures with a purpose: The distribution of non- theatrical 

films in Canada. Toronto: Canadian Association for 
Adult Education. 

5 3.02 People learning fi^om each oth en Toronto: Canadian 

Association for Adult Education. 

53.03 Training for democratic leadership. In Report of national 

seminar on citizenship, (pp. 105- 1 24). Ottawa: 
Canadian Citizenship Branch, Dept of Citizenship and 
Immigration. 

1954 

54.01 Trends and problems in Canadian adult education. 

Vancouver. B.C: University of British Columbia, 
Department of Extension. (Occasional paper in adult 
education No. 1). 

54.02 Can Canadians make motion pictures? Canadian film news. 

i. May. 2. 

1956 

56.01 Putting words to work: Effective group discusdorL Toronto: 

Canadian Association for Adult Eiducation. 

56.02 Adult education in the Canadian University. Toronto: 

Canadian Association for Adult Education. 

56.03 (Ed.). Brief ft-om the CAAE to the Royal Commission on 

Broadcasting. Toronto: Canadian Association for Adult 
Education. 

56.04 (Ed.). Design for democracy: Abridgment of the 1919 report; 

by R. D. Waller. London: Maxwell Parrish. 

56.05 L' envoi. In Labour^ university cooperation on education: A 

report on the National Conference on Labour 
Education. Ottawa: Canadian Labour Congress. 

56.06 Here's an audience Canada isn't reaching effectively. 

Canadian business. 29. April. 120. 

56.07 Humans make the best bosses. Financial post. 3Q. May 26. 



317 



308 



1957 

57.01 Liberal education for business leadership. In R. A, Goldwin, 

& C. R, Nelson. (Eds.). Towards the liberally 
educated executive, (pp. 84-91). New York: Mentor 
Books, Nev/ American Library. 

57.02 Liberal education for business leadership. Adult leadership, 

(1). 11-14. 

1958 

58.01 (Ed.). Adult education in a free society: Speeches by Revert 

J. Blakely Toronto: Guardian Bird Publications. 

58.02 Adult education in the Caribbean: The Extra-mural 

Departme^: of the University College of the West 
Indies, Toronto: Canadian Association for Adult 
Education. 

58.04 The organization and administration of adult education. 

Review of educational research. 22. 269-279. 

58.05 Canada's stake in UNESCO. Queen's quarterly ^. Summer. 

248-264. 

58.06 Challenge of automatioa Food for thought. 18. 214-219. 

1959 

59.01 Renaissance in Puerto Rico. Food for thought. 12. 156-160. 

59.02 How adults learn. New York: Association Press. 

59.03 Market place for ideas as well as goods. Saturday night. 14. 

May 23. 16-17, 44-45. 

1960 

60.01 Responsible broadcasting. Food for thought. 2Q. 314-317. 

60.02 From remedial to continuing education. Food for thought. 21. 

108-111. 

1961 

61.01 18 to 80: Continuing education in Metropolitan Toronto. 

Toronto: Board of Education for the City of Toronto. 

61.02 Continuing education. Ottawa: Canadian Conference on 

Education, (Conference Study No. 6). 

61.03 with Frayne, T. G. The real point about Bruce Kidd. 

Macleans magazine. 24. November. 23-25, 33-35. 
61.05 Editor's preface. In E C. Undeman, The meaning of adult 
education, (pp. xiii-xxiv). Montreal: Harvest House. 



31 



309 



1962 

62.01 Continuing education in the professions. In A symposium on 

continuing education in the professions, (pp. 17-31). 
Vancouver, B.C: University of British Columbia. 

62.02 Continuing education in Alaska. Fairbanks: University of 

Alaska* 

62.03 The creative crusade. In C. S. Fletcher, Education, The 

challenge ahead, (pp. 71-82). New York: Norton. 

62.04 Films. In J. A. Irving, (Ed.). Mass media in Canada, (pp. 

51-86). Toronto: Ryerson Press. 

62.05 Financing continuing education. New York: Scarecrow Press. 

62.06 Leisure time. Community courier. No. 124. pp. 2-7. 

62.07 Adult education. Community courier. No. 133 . 

62.08 Introduction. In L. R. Peterson, The Gibson's Landing story 

Toronto: Peter Martin Books. 

62.09 Ensemble. See bi-monthly issues of Continuous learning. A. — 

6210 Continuing not fundamental education only. In C. W. 

Hunnicutt, America's emerging role in overseas 
education, (pp. 1-199). Syracuse: School of Education, 
Syracuse University. 

1963 

63.01 (Ed.) Learning aru' society. Toronto: Canadian Association 
for Adult Education. 

1964 

64.01 There is no strength where there is no strain. In 

Proceedings Ontario Conference on Corainuing 
Education, (pp. 7-16). Toronto: Ontario Association for 
Curriculum Development 

64.02 "/ am what a librarian made me . . . " Staff paper. 

Toronto: Ontario Institute for Studies in Education, 
Library. 

64.03 Canada. Radio Broadcasting. In Encyclopedia Americana. 

New York: Americana Corp. J5. 366-368. 

1965 

65.01 Change with consent: Continuing education, India and 

Canada. In Nehru literacy fund drive, A souvenir, (pp. 
31-42). New Delhi: Indian Adult Education 
Association. 

65.02 Corbett, God bless him. Continuous learning. 4. (1). 39-42. 

65.03 Inside the Great Wall. Continuous learrung. 4. (4). 251-255. 

65.04 Adult education. In Encyclopedia Canadiana. 1. 51-57. 

Toronto: Grolier. 



310 



1966 

66.01 L'education des adultes, principles et moyens, (Translated and 

adapted from Kjdd» J. R. How adults learn by Nicole 
Danmard). Paris: Editions Cuyas. 

66.02 The implications of continuous learning. Toronto: Gage. 

(Quance lectures in Canadian education 1966). 

66.03 How adults learn. (In Hindi) New Delhi: Indian Adult 

Education Association. 

66.04 The implications of continuous learning. New Delhi: Indian 

Adult Education Association. (Series No. 74). 

66.05 Research and public policy, and Evaluation in research. In 

Programmed Learning and research in adult education: 
Proceedings of a conference organized by the Adult 
Education Association of East and Central Africa, (pp. 
68-74; 89-94). Nairobi: Adult Education Association of 
East and Central Africa. 

66.06 Reflections on the place of adult education in the world 

today. In Report of proceedings of the 6th Annual 
Conference of the Australian Association of Adult 
Education (pp. 1-23). Canberra: Australian National 
University. 

66.07 Masters of the art of intelligent living. ASPBAE journal, JL 

1-10. 

66.08 The social sciences in Canada. Social science information L 

March. 78- 89. Paris: International Social Science 
Council. 

66.09 Still on our agenda. Continuous learning, 1, 107-114. 

66.10 Adult education and the educational authority, Naya 

shikshak, April. 

66.11 Introduction. In Report of the Committee on Correspondence 

Study, Jaipur: University of Rajasthan. 

1967 

67.01 Man is not dead. In Proceedings of the Annual Meeting 

The Canadian College of Teachers, IQ. 15-26. 
Toronto: The College. 

67.02 Adult education today and tomorrow. College. Alaska: 

Cooperative Extension Service. University of Alaska. 

67.03 Functional literacy and international development: A study of 

Canadian capability to assist with the world campaign 
to eradicate illiteracy, Toronto: Ontario Institute for 
Studies in Education. Dept. of Adult Education. 

67.04 What's ahead for volunteer organizations. Petticoats '67, 

YWCA of Canada centennial publicatioru Toronto: 
YWCA of Canada. 

67.05 Literacy around the world. Canadian UNESCO bulletin. ID. 



32{J 



311 



1968 

68.01 (1968). Target- Eight hundred million. In Bridging the gap 

(Functional literacy) (pp. 23-37). Tokyo: Asian 
Broadcasting Union. 

68.02 Some factors and considerations respecting methodology for 

comparative adult education. In Report of a Seminar 
in Comparative Studies in Education, (pp. 5-12). 
Toronto: Ontario Institute for Studies in Education. 

68.03 The implications of education permanente for university adult 

education. In A. A. Liveright, The concept of lifelong 
integrated learning "Education permanente" and some 
implications for university adult education, (pp. 10-21)/ 
International Congress of University Adult Education. 
(Occasional Paper II). 

68.04 And he who lives a hundred years. Naya shikshak: 

Professional Organization of Teachers, IQ. (5). 64-82. 

68.05 Functional literacy and international development: Summary 

of a study of Canadian capability . . . Ottawa: 
Canadian National Commission for UNESCO. 

68.06 Preface. In The Institute of University Extension 

Administration, March 6-9, 1968, Toronto: Ontario 
Institute for Studies in Education. 

69.01 A study of the Banff School of Fine Arts and the Banff 

Centre for Continuing Education. Edmonton, Alberta: 
Department of Education. 

69.02 Education for perspective. New Delhi: Indian Adult 

Education Association. Toronto: Peter Martin. 

69.03 Leisure in Canada: Proceedings of the Montmorency 

Conference on Leisure, Ottawa: Department of Health 
and Welfare, Fitness and Amateur Sport Directorate. 

69.04 Continuing education in the professions — The pioneers: 

Solon, Confucius, Hippocrates. Convergence, 2, (3). 
75-79. 

69.05 with Gayfer, M. You can't tear up the seamless robe of 

learning. School progress. iS. September. 58-62. 

69.06 You can get anything you want Adult leadership, 12. (8). 

351-354. 

70.01 with Smith, R. M. & Aker, G. F. (Eds.). Handbook of 

adult educatioTL Lx>ndon: Macmillan. (Issued by the 
Adult Education Association of the U.S.A.). 

70.02 with Jacobs, D. E (Eds.). A brief to the Commision on 

Post-- secondary Education in Ontario, Toronto: Ontario 
Institute for Studies in Education. Dept of Adult 
Education. 

70.03 The education of the decision- makers. In D. Krishna, V. V. 

John, P. S. Sundaram, Indian education today: 



3il 



312 



Prospects and perspectives. Jaipur: Rajasthan University 
Press. 

70.04 The nation was — because of me. In D. Whitbock (Ed.). 

Adult education in Australia, New York: Pergamon, 

70.05 Community colleges: A comparative investigation. In 

Communications: The Comparative and International 
Education Society of Canada, (pp. 32-48). Toronto: 
The Society. 

70.06 The imaginative training for citizenship. Continuous learning. 

5. (3). 111-125. 

70.07 Developing a methodology for comparative studies in adult 

education. Convergence, i. (3). 12-26. 

1971 

71.01 with Bennett, C. (Eds.). Comparative studies in education: 

Readings, book one: Hist(^y and methodology. Toronto: 
Ontario Institute for Studies in Education. 

71.02 with Bennett, C. (Eds.). Comparative studies in education: 

Readings, book twa Applicatioru Toronto: Ontario 
Institute for Studies in Education. 

71.03 Adult education, the conununity and the animateur. In J. A, 

Draper (Ed.). Citizen participation: Canada; A book of 
readings, (pp. 137-158). Toronto: New Press. 

71.04 Learning and leisure: Some reflections on development(s) in 

adult education and their relationship to leisure. 
Society and leisure. No. 3. 35-54. 

71.05 Canadian studies at OISK In Seminar on Canadian Studies 

in Universities, (pp. 1-4). Toronto: Canadian Studies 
Office, The Ontario Institute for Studies in Education. 

71.06 Comparative studies in adult educatioru Presented at Seminar 

on Methods in Comparative Studies in Adult 
Education, OISK (pp. 1- 8). Toronto: The Ontario 
Institute for Studies in Education. 

71.07 Preface. In A. Weston (Ed.). Basic readings in Australian 

adult education, (p. 3). Melbourne: Council of Adult 
Education. 

1972 

72.01 Literacy, ABE and the three R's. In W. M. Brooke (Ed.). 

Adult basic education: A resource book of readings, 
(pp. 94-115). Toronto: New Press, 

72.02 Other streets in the global village. Canadian and 

international education. 1. 4-15. 

72.03 Report for IDRC on educational developments in 18 

countries. Ottawa: International Development Research 
Centre. 



313 



72.04 From Montreal to Tokyo - The Third Unesco World 

Conference on Adult Education, Corridor. 2. 6-15. 

72.05 International trends in publications in continuing education. 

In A. N. Charters, & W. M. Rivera, International 
Seminar on Publications in Continuing Education, (pp. 
82-91). Syracuse: Syracuse University Press. 

72.06 Notes on education for employment and self employment In 

Adidt education and national development. Occasional 
paper Number XV. (pp. 98-- 108). London: 
Commonwealth Foundation. 

72.07 Writing in adult education, 1972. Convergence, i. (4). 28-32. 

73.01 (Ed.). Leisure in Canada. Ottawa: Department of Health and 

Welfare, Fitness and Amateur Sports Directorate. 

73.02 Relentless verity: Education for being- becoming- belonging. 

Syracuse: Syracuse University. 

73.03 with Bordia, A., & Draper, J. A. (Joint comp.). Adult 

education in India: A book of readings. Bombay: 
Nachiketa Publications. 

73.04 Next steps in the development of a field of study. In 

Seminar on Methods in Comparative Studies. Toronto: 
Ontario Institute for Studies in Education, Dept of 
Adult Education. 

73.05 How adults learn. (Rev. ed.). New York: Association Press. 

73.06 The advancement of professional education in Canada: The 

report of the Professional Education Project . . . 
written by John A. B, McLeish on behalf of J. Roby 
Kidd (and others). Toronto: Ontario Institute for 
Studies in Education. 

1974 

74.01 A tale of three cities, Elsinore- Montreal-Tokyo; the 

influence of three UNESCO World Conferences upon 
the development of adult education. Syracuse: Syracuse 
University. 

74.02 Recognition: The UNESCO literary awards. In J. R. Kidd, 

& J. Draper (Eds.). The literacy experience, reflections 
by Canadian educationists, (pp. 287-302). Teheran: 
International Institute for Adult Literacy Methods. 

74.03 Whilst time is bin ning: A report on education for 

development. Ottawa: International Development 
Research Centre. (Monograph lDRC-035e). 

197S 

75.01 Comparative adult education: The first decade. In C. 

Bennett, J. R. Kidd, & J. Kulich. Comparative studies 
in adult education: An anthology. Syracuse: Syracuse 



3^3 



314 



University. 

75.02 Development means human development: The International 

Coimcil for Adult Education. Canadian and 
international education. 4. (2). 35-48. 

75.03 Partisans and/or citizens: Co-operation of unions, universities, 

colleges, and adult education in Canada. In B. Pearl 
(Ed.), Labour education in Canada, (pp. 3-18). 
Ottawa: Labour Canada. 

75.04 The social gospel and adult education in Canada. In R. 

Allen (Ed,) The social gospel in Canada, Ottawa: 
National Museums of Canada. (History Division Paper 
No. 9). 

75.05 Yin and yang: change and continuity in learning. Toronto: 

Canadian College of Health Service Executives, 

75.06 The inner continuum. In R. H. Dave (Ed.). Reflections on 

lifelong education and the school. (pp. 27-30). 
Hamburg: UNESCO Institute for Education. (UIE 
Monographs 3). 

75.07 Perspective from Persepolis. Convergence. £. (4). 1-4. 

75.08 Confessions of a male suffragist Adidt leadership. 24. 

December. 134-136. 

75.09 with McLeish. J. A, B. (Eds.). Report: The Lacdle Centre 

for educational innovatiort Montreal: Concordia 
University. 

75.10 Literacy and adult eduu ior development In J. Muller 

(Ed.). Final report, irdernational expert panel: Adult 
education and development with special reference to 
the Arab States, (pp. 129-147). Bonn: German 
foundation for International Development (DSE) 
Education and Science Branch and Sirs-El-Layyan, 
A.R.E: Regional Centre for functional literacy in rural 
areas in the Arab States (ASFEC). DOK 837 A/a. 

75.11 The years between. Adult leadership. 24. (1). 31-33. 

1976 

76.01 Foreword. In Adult education and development. Conference 

report of ICAE, Dar es Salaam, June 1976. Literacy 
discussion. 1. 

76.02 Adult learning in the 1970s. In R. M. Smith. (Ed.). Adult 

learning: Issues and innovations, (pp. 1-26). DeKalb, 
Illinois: Northern Illinois University. (Information Series 
No. 8). 

76.03 International adult education. In International encylopedia of 

higher education. New York: McGraw-Hill. 



3U 



315 



76.04 Comparative studies in adult education — Correspondence 

course, Toronto: University of Toronto, School of 
Continuing Studies. 

76.05 Crossroads: Education in the Muslim world. Convergence, 5. 

(1). 1-3. 

76.06 Education for the community: An international perspective. 

In Education or catastrophe? Papers presented to Dr. 
Mohan Sinha Mehta. P. S. Sundaram and A. B. 
Shah, (Eds.), (pp. 21-38). New Delhi: Vikas Pub. 
House. 

1977 

77.01 with & Mohi, El- Dine Saber. (Eds.). Development and adult 

education in the Arab States: An analysis of some 
issues. Toronto: International Council for Adult 
Education and Dokki, Cairo: The Arab Educational 
Cultural and Scientific Organization. 

77.02 The question as commitment, a symposium. In R Cahn and 

C. Going (Eds.). Thomas More Institute Papers/77. 
(pp. 1-2, 16, 29, 93-95). Montreal: The Institute. 

1978 

78.01 How adults learn. (In Arabic). Cairo: Arab League 

Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. 

78.02 with Hall, B. L, (Eds.). Adult learning, a design for action: 

a comprehensive international survey, Oxford: New 
York: Pergamon Press. 

78.03 with Selman, G. R. Coming of age: Canadian adult 

education in the 1960s. Toronto: Canadian Association 
for Adult Education. 

78.04 Human development through education. In R. St J. 

Macdonald, D. M. Johnston. & G. L. Morris. (Eds.). 
The international law and policy of human welfare. 
(pp. 273-290). Alphen Aan den Rijn: Sijthoff and 
NoordhofT. 

1979 

79.01 Wie Erwachsene lernen. (Translated from J. R. Kidd, How 

adults learn by Elfi and Don Porsche). Braunschweig: 
Westermann. 

79.02 The vast progressive tasks of mankind. In International 

developments in post secondary short cycle education. 
Report of a Wingspread Conference. Racine: Wisconsin. 

79.03 with Gayfer. M., & Hall, B. L. (Fxis.). The world of 

literacy: Policy, research and action. Ottawa: 
International Development Research Centre. 



316 



79.04 Lifelong learning in the United States. In T. Schuller, and 

J. Megaixy, World yearbook in education, 1979: 
Recurrent education and lifelong learning. (pp. 
113-127). New York: Kogan Page. 

79.05 Adult learning programs in India and China. Canadian and 

international edurrUoru (2). 58-82. 

79.06 Some preliminary nc concerning an enquiry into the 

heritage of Canuuian adult education. Vancouver: 
University of B.C., Centre for Continuing Education. 
(Occasional Papers in Continuing Education No. 19). 

79.07 A nation of learners. Convergence. 12. (1-2). 25-39. 

79.08 The development of comparative studies in adult education 

at OISE 1966-1975. In K. L. Oglesby. (Ed). 
Comparative studies in adult education, (pp. 33-46). 
Sheffield: University of Sheffield, Division of 
Continuing Education. 

79.09 The OTHER Salzburg Seminar. Learning. 2. (3). 11-12. 

79.10 Classroom is the nation: impressions of China and Vietnam. 

Convergence. 13. (4). 78-82. 

1980 

80.01 China: A model for development, a review of some reports 

on China and assessing China's contribution to 
development Convergence. 13. (4). 78-82. 

80.02 with DuQuet, D.. & Snell. A. (Eds.). Directory of archival 

materials in adult education. Toronto: Ontario Institute 
for Studies in Education, Dept of Adult Education. 

80.03 Foreword. In I. Wilson, Citizens' Forum, Canadcfs national 

platform. Toronto: Ontario Institute for Studies in 
Education, DepL of Adult Education. 

80.04 Continuing professional education. "Prospects for the 80s.'' In 

H. K. Baskett & W. H. Taylor, Moving into the 80s. 
(pp. 83-88). Calgary: Faculty of Continuing Education, 
University of Calgary. 

80.05 Training and research - the 1980s. NSPI journal. 14. (6). 

8-10. 16. in V / 



1981 

81.01 Cum invata adulti. (Translated from J. Kidd, How adults 

learn, by A. Dumitru). Bucharest: Editura Didactica Si 
Pedagogia. 

81.02 Research. In A. N. Charters, & Associates. Comparing adult 

education world wide. Adult Education Handbook 
Series No. 10. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass. 

81.03 A nation of learners. In P. M. Cunningham and I. Larson 

(Eds.). Yearbook of adult and continuing education. 



317 



1980, (pp. 2-13). Chicago: Marquis Academic Media, 

81.04 with Blakely, R., & Hall, B. L. (Eds.). The education of 

adxdts: Recent changes and present prospects. Centre 
for the Study of Education in Developing Countries 
(CESO) and Netherlands Study and Development 
Centre for Adult Education (SUE). 

81.05 Education research needs in adult education Convergence 14 

(2). 53-62. 

81.06 Some new symbol for the soul, or learning, not just distance. 

The isolated in education, Alice Springs: Darwin: 
Australian College cf Education, 

81.07 Finnish association's planning meeting focuses on broad and 

enduring issues. Convergence, 14. (4). 77-78. 

81.08 Travelling together: The spirit of the seminar. In Seminar 

Report, Adult Education, Training and Employment, 
Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago, June 1-3, 1981, 
(pp. 148-151). Toronto: International Council for Adult 
Education. 



1982 

82.01 Some new symbol for the soul; and defeat of isolation — 
the isolated in education. Developing education. (6). 
27^33. 



1983 

83.01 witli Douglas Ray. Lifelong education: An emerging human 

right In D. Ray and V. D'Oyley (Eds.). Human 
rights in Canadian education, (pp. 53-67). Dubuque, 
Iowa: Kendall Hunt 

83.02 (1983), Learning and libraries: Competencies for fviU 

participation. Library trends, 3L 4. 



3<!7 



318 



INDEX TO MONOGRAPH TOLES 

The following is a list of the titles of published monographs 
contained in List of references to the published writing:; of J. R, 
Kidd, The serial numbers shown refer to the numbering of the 
List, Only those monographs are indexed where J. R. Kidd was 
the author or editor. This is not an index to the works to which 
he contributed. This index is issued separately. 

A 

70.02 A brief to the Commission on Post- secondary Education in 
Ontario 

48.02 A preliminary report on personnel problems in adult 
education 

69.01 A study of the Banff School of Fine Arts and the Banff 

Centre for Continuing Education 
44.01 A study of the influence of Dr. H.M. Tory on education 

policy in Canada 
47.01 A study to formulate a plan for the work of the Canadian 

Citizenship Council 

74.01 A tale of three cities, Elsinore- Montreal- Tokyo; the 

influence of three UNESCO World Conferences upon 
the development of adult education 

78.02 Adult learning, a design for action: a comprehensive 

international survey 
48.05 Adult education and the CAAE 

50.03 Adult education and the school 

50.02 Adult education in Canada 

73.03 Adult education in India: A book of readings 
56.02 Adult education in the Canadian university 

58.02 Adult education in the Caribbean: The Extra-mural 
Department of the University College of the West 
Indies 

67.02 Adult education today and tomorrow 

46.01 An experiment with film forums, conducted by the Ottawa 

YMCA Public Affairs Committee 

B 

56.03 Brief from the CAAE to the Royal Commission on 

Broadcasting 

C 

78.03 Coming of age: Canadian adult education in the 1960's 
46.03 Community centers 

45.02 Community councils 

71.01 Comparative studies in education: Readings, book one: 



328 



31? 



History and methodology 
71.02 Comparative studies in education: Readings, book two: 

Application 
61,02 Continuing education 
62.02 Continuing education in Alaska 

81.02 Cum invata adulti 

D 

56.04 Design for democracy, abridgement of the 1919 report by R. 

D. Waller 

77.01 Development and adult education in the Arab Spates: An 
analysis of issues 

80.03 Directory of archival materials in adult education 

E 

66.01 L'education des adultes, principles et moyens 

69.02 Education for perspective 

61.01 18 to 80: Continuing education in Metropolitan Toronto 

F 

51.01 Film utilization: A handbook for leaders 

62.05 Financing continuing education 

67.03 Fimctional literacy and international development: A study of 

Canadian capability to assist with the world campaign 
to eradicate illiteracy 
68.05 Fimctiona! literacy and international development: Sununary 
of a study of Canadian capability . . . 

H 

70.01 Handbook of adult education 

59.02 How adults learn 

73.05 How adults learn (Rev. ed.) 

66.03 How adults learn (In Hindi) 

78.01 How adults learn (In Arabic) 

I 

64.02 "I am what a librarian made me . . 

66.02 Implications of continuous learning 

L 

63.01 Learning and society 
73.01 Leisure in Canada 

69.03 Leisure in Canada: Proceedings of the Montmorency 

Conference on Leisure 
67.05 Literacy around the world 

48.03 Look, listen and leam, A manual on the use of audio- visual 



3 2\) 



320 



materials in informal education 

N 

45.01 New ways of learning 

P 

53.02 People learning from each otlier 

53.01 Pictures with a purpose: The distribution of non- theatrical 
films in Canada 

56.01 Putting words to work: Effective group discussion 

R 

73.02 Relentless verity: Education for being — becoming — 

belonging 

72.03 Report for IDRC on educational developments in 18 

countries 

S 

81.06 Some new symbol for the soul, or learning, not just 

distance. The isolated in education 
79.06 Some preliminary notes concerning an enquiry into the 

heritage of Canadian adult education 
49.01 Survey of programme materials 

T 

73.06 The advancement of professional education in Canada: The 
report of the Professional Education Project . . 

81.04 The education of adults: Recent changes and present 

prospects 

65.04 The implications of continuous learning 

79.03 The worid of literacy: Policy, research and action 
54.01 Trends and problems in Canadian adult education 

W 

67.04 What's ahead for volunteer organizations 

74.03 Whilst time is burning: A report on education for 

development 
79.01 Wie Erwachsene lemen 

Y 

75.05 Yin and yang: change and continuity of learning 



33u 



