<<<PAGE 1>>>
YEARS of Community Building
YMCA of Greater Halifax/Dartmouth
<<<PAGE 2>>>
Greetings
from the Chair of the Board of Directors and the 
President and Chief Executive Officer
Established in 1853, it’s hard to believe it’s been this long and we’re thrilled to 
be a part of it, celebrating the YMCA of Greater Halifax/Dartmouth’s 165 years 
of community building! In tribute to this, we’re pleased to share with you a 
collection of our rich and diverse history, coupled with our “Y Stories” from 
over the years. 
The YMCA of Greater Halifax/Dartmouth would not exist without the 
continued support of our donors, volunteers and staﬀ, and we can’t wait to 
welcome you into our newest centre of community. 
You all belong here.
Peter Doig
Chair,  
YMCA Board of Directors
Brian Posavad
President and
Chief Executive Officer

<<<PAGE 3>>>
History
YMCA of Greater Halifax/Dartmouth
On December 6, 1853, a small group of men came together 
in the oﬃce of Peter Lynch. In the Forrester Building on 
Barrington Street with a reading room, a library, classes, and 
bi-weekly lectures, the organization that would become the 
YMCA of Greater Halifax and Dartmouth was formed.  
Moving from building to building, the organization 
developed the Community YMCA on November 21, 1951 in 
the Old Children’s Library. The South Park Building opened 
its doors just a few years later. At that point, Big Cove YMCA 
Camp had been thriving for almost 65 years after opening in 
1889 as the ﬁrst residential camp program in Canada.   
We have been here through two world wars, one of 
the biggest explosions in history, and a massive ﬁre that 
destroyed the Community YMCA in July 1979. Through it 
all, the YMCA has remained a centre for everyone to grow in 
spirit, mind, and body.
 
<<<PAGE 4>>>
On June 17, 1995, Halifax hosted the G7 summit and the First Lady of the United States, 
Hillary Clinton, attended the Grand Opening of the Community Y on Gottingen Street. 
(Left to Right) Gary Farmer, George Rodger, President & CEO of YMCA Halifax,  
Mark Smith, CEO of the Community Y . 
<<<PAGE 5>>>
September 20, 1995
Letter from Janet Blanchard (assistant to  
Hillary Clinton) to George Rodger on behalf  
of the First Lady. 
<<<PAGE 6>>>
Four Community YMCA Campers prepare to leave for Big Cove YMCA 
Camp in the summer of 1968 for a Junior Leadership course. Left to right 
are: Frank Symonds, Gary Farmer, Greg Downey, and Michael Lucas. 
One of the rules passed by the Club in March 1952 was that anyone misbehaving while in the gym or club rooms 
would be ﬁned on a three-cent basis. The ﬁne had to be paid within a week or another two cents would be added.
Quick Facts
• 1962: Lou Dixon was elected to the Order of the Cove by his fellow campers at the Big Cove YMCA Camp. 
• Basketball was continuing to be popular in the 1980s. The basketball program was so good that youth 
were coming from all over the city and outside to join the many Y teams. One of the top-notch coaches 
included Irvine Carvery – our current Community YMCA Director (2018). 
• The success of basketball enabled the players to travel and see other parts of the country learning to 
present themselves with discipline, dignity, and conﬁdence. The Community Y reputation grew and became 
known throughout Eastern Canada.
• Donors of the Community Y since the beginning: Halifax Protestant Youth Foundation, Metro United Way, 
and the City of Halifax Social Planning Department.
Our Community Y
In the Beginning 
On November 21, 1951, the Community Y opened in the Old Children’s Library  
and was known as the Brunswick Street Division of the YMCA. Total enrolment at  
that time was twelve. Before the year was out, an executive was elected for the  
Club. The name picked for their club was “The Y Devils” .
<<<PAGE 7>>>
1957: Junior (ages 12-15) and 
Intermediate (ages 15-18) 
basketball team entered the 
YMCA Church League for the 
ﬁrst time under Carl Johnson. 
The Intermediates won their 
division while the Juniors made a 
ﬁne showing before losing in the  
semi-ﬁnals.
Carl turned the responsibility over to his brother and Wilfred Jackson. The 
1958-59 program saw the Intermediate team win the YMCA Church League 
title again. Not to be outdone, the Juniors also won their division under Carl 
and Mack Johnson.  
A House Basketball League was formed in 1962 with the “Celtics” and the “Warriors” .
In Church League play, the Community “Y” again captured both the 
Intermediate and Junior League Championship (1962).
House League continued in 1963 with an additional two teams – the 
Ambassadors and the Royals. Church League play continued this year with the 
Community Y winning both the Intermediate and Junior crowns.
The City started Biddy (ages 9-12) and Juvenile (ages 15-17) leagues in 
1968. The Community “Y” won its ﬁrst City Juvenile League title in 1970. 
“A feeling of pride comes over me, as I meet 
and greet so many of today’s successful people, 
whose roots go back to the Community 
YMCA…it goes without saying, that without 
the encouragement and support of the local 
Community Y, many of us would not have 
carried the books as well as the ball. Our 
Community Y has enjoyed an outstanding 
reputation, throughout its long history of 
positively shaping the lives of its membership.  
Although we have seen major changes within 
the YMCA movement in the metro area, the 
Community Y has remained steadfast in its 
eﬀorts to meet the needs of inner city youth.  
It has always been there  
when we needed it  
most.”
Wilfred A. Jackson,  
Chairman of the 1990  
Halifax Community  
YMCA Reunion

<<<PAGE 8>>>
Our very own Big Cove YMCA Camp, in Pictou County, Nova 
Scotia, is the oldest continuously running residential camp in 
Canada. Ardythe Wildsmith, a long-time supporter of Big Cove, 
worked there as a counsellor in the mid-1960s. “I was very 
musical, involved with choir and dance, so I brought a more 
artistic perspective to the job,” says Ardythe, also known to her 
fellow campers as Ardy. “Before going to camp though, I had 
never been in a canoe, so I had a bit of a learning curve that 
ﬁrst summer!” Growing up in the North End of Halifax, Ardythe 
heard about the counsellor jobs while attending the Hi-Y 
program at the South Park YMCA.  
“At that time in Halifax, there were very clear divisions, including 
North-South, poor-wealthy, and Catholic-Protestant. What I 
loved about the YMCA and Big Cove was that none of that 
mattered – everyone is equal at the Y,” she says. “To this day, the 
YMCA emphasizes that it doesn’t matter where you come from 
– you can be whatever you want to be.”
“What I loved about the YMCA and Big Cove 
was that none of that mattered – everyone 
is equal at the Y. To this day, the YMCA 
emphasizes that it doesn’t matter where 
you come from – you can be whatever 
you want to be.”
– Ardythe Wildsmith
Ardythe and Bruce Wildsmith, met at Big Cove YMCA Camp  
50 years ago, and have been married for 48 years.
Ardythe
<<<PAGE 9>>>
“The days are long, but the time 
is short. Camp levels every social 
playing ﬁeld – it’s a melting pot 
of perfection.” 
– Breanna Lane 
Breanna Lane started her journey at the YMCA Big 
Cove Camp over 15 years ago. She came to camp as an 
extremely shy kid, and left with irreplaceable experiences 
and memories; a network of life-long friends.  
Her ﬁrst year at Big Cove was when she was 11 years old. 
She recalls being very nervous on the ﬁrst day, but as 
predicted by the Big Cove staﬀ who have seen it every year, 
she was devastated to leave on the last day and cried the 
whole way home.  
She credits Big Cove – and in particular, the 10 day-out trips 
and overnights by herself – with helping shape her sense of self and build her conﬁdence. After spending 
four years as a camper, she completed both Leadership I and Leadership II. Breanna also spent ﬁve years on 
the Big Cove Staﬀ.  

<<<PAGE 10>>>
Honourary 
Life Member
of the YMCA
The ﬁrst time I walked into a YMCA, I was 8 years old looking for extracurricular 
activities. Those ﬁrst steps led to a fulﬁlling career lasting over 27 years.  
My career with the YMCA has provided me with many incredible opportunities. 
I developed leadership skills, worked on initiatives that improved my 
community, made life-long friends, and travelled to many countries. The 
most satisfying aspect was having the opportunity of watching young YMCA 
members develop into productive young adults.  
It has been my experience that the YMCA is a welcoming and safe environment 
where we all can ﬁnd something that helps us ﬁnd our place and path in the world. 
The YMCA philosophies are deeply embedded in everything I do.
Lou Gannon’s YMCA story has 
taken many forms as a member 
and staff person. In 1988, he was 
appointed Chief Executive Officer of 
the Charlottetown YMCA. He was the 
first African Nova Scotian to hold this 
position in Canada. Lou still remains as 
a Honourary Life Member of the YMCA 
of Greater Halifax/Dartmouth and 
his daughter, Kim Gannon, currently 
serves on the Board of Directors. 
Lou Gannon
Honourary Life Member
<<<PAGE 11>>>
New  
Beginnings  
start here.
The YMCA began assisting Sawsan Shamo in April of 2017 
as she was seeking admission to Saint Mary’s University. 
She did not have all her academic transcripts, as she was 
unable to acquire them from Syria due to the civil war. 
The transcripts that she was able to bring in addition to 
the YMCA staﬀ speaking to the admissions oﬃce and 
advocating on her behalf, she was granted conditional 
acceptance. 
Sawsan began her studies at the Language Centre at SMU 
and graduated in June 2018. She is now double-majoring in 
English Literature and International Development Studies.  
Sawsan is excelling in her studies. 
Sawsan attended the Centre for Immigrant Programs 
“Employment Series” workshop and gained insight into how 
to start her own business in Canada. She has aspirations of 
having her own clothing line and importing clothing from 
overseas. The YMCA is immensely proud of Sawsan and 
the accomplishments she has achieved in her short time in 
Canada. 
Sawsan
<<<PAGE 12>>>
“Working in community 
on a grass roots level 
has always been my 
passion and where I feel 
I do my best work. I am 
privileged to be a part of 
the YMCA and give back 
to this community.”
– Lynda Thomas
Co-Director of YMCA NS Works Employment Services Lynda
<<<PAGE 13>>>
“Halifax is so small and so nice; the people are 
great and friendly, always smiling. I have a great 
group of friends here at the YMCA.”
– Kanan Receb 
Kanan received employment through YMCA Centre for Immigrant Programs employment education services
<<<PAGE 14>>>
Robert Richardson 
was born into 
social housing in 
Halifax’s Mulgrave 
Park and spent his 
early years in the 
North End with his 
parents and seven 
of his ten siblings. 
They all lived in 
what he refers to as a “cozy two bedroom apartment.”  
At the age of 10, Robert and three of his siblings went 
to live with his sister, Shirley, and her husband Stephen 
after their mother unexpectedly passed away. At the 
young age of 25, Shirley and Stephen took on the care 
of two children and two teenagers. 
Robert is now an industrious entrepreneur and a well-
respected business leader and a tireless community 
builder with a long history of commitment to making 
our community a better place.  Robert has dedicated 
his time, talent and treasure to the YMCA and serves as 
a member of our Capital Campaign, Honorary Trustee, 
and Chair of the YMCA Legacy Foundation and was the 
Past-Chair of our Board of Directors.
“I have a deep respect for 
YMCA’s principle of oﬀering 
programs to participants 
regardless of their ability to 
pay. That would have been 
me as a young boy –  
unable to pay, but very  
much wanting to play.” 
– Robert Richardson 
Robert
<<<PAGE 15>>>

<<<PAGE 16>>>
Ahmad’s Story   
Ahmad Al-Helwani is a 13-year-old Syrian refugee. After he 
and his family left Damascus in 2014 to escape the war, they 
spent two years in Cairo, Egypt. They were selected to come 
to Canada when the federal government eased immigration 
quotas to admit more Syrian refugees. 
Since arriving in the country a year ago, Ahmad has been 
making the most of his new home. He credits the YMCA of 
Greater Halifax/Dartmouth in large part for his success in 
adapting to his new country, including learning English. 
Ahmad was selected to participate in a four-day trip to 
Ottawa in 2017 through the WE organization, where he 
participated in workshops and sightseeing, and was on stage 
at the Canada Day concert. He was partnered with a student 
from Dartmouth through a buddy system where Canadians 
are matched with newcomers. These two students were the 
only ones from Atlantic Canada chosen for this program! 
According to Fadi Hamdan, Manager of the YMCA Refugee 
Youth Program, Youth Advisor (Atlantic Canada), Ahmad’s 
passion for his new country and his willingness to give to his 
community made him the ideal participant. 
When asked about how he felt about the opportunity, 
Ahmad said he was a little nervous. 
Ahmad (left) and his younger brother Yousef
Al-Helwani boys
<<<PAGE 17>>>
“It will be my ﬁrst time outside Halifax since coming to 
Canada. I don’t really know what to expect. But I am excited 
to meet new people. We were told there is a chance we will 
meet Prime Minister Trudeau. I would like that – I would like 
to say thank you.”
 – Ahmad Al-Helwani 
Ahmad got the chance he had hoped for. 
He got to meet and personally thank Prime 
Minister, Justin Trudeau
<<<PAGE 18>>>
“I just love it! I love that I can 
relate to my clients. I can tell 
them my story.
–  Kim Marsman Kim
Kim Marsman is a lead case manager at the YMCA Employment 
Centre of Dartmouth, but her YMCA story began long before she 
was staﬀ. In fact, she started out as a client of the Centre.  
Kim was on assistance raising her kids and was using the YMCA 
to help her job search. She took some workshops and realized 
that her passion was in management and counselling. Kim 
went back to school through the Adult Learning Program. 
After graduating, she studied Business and Administration 
Management, and during her summer break came to the YMCA 
to volunteer from Monday to Thursday for three months. She 
enjoyed the position so much – and was so good at it - that the 
Centre welcomed her back with open arms for her ﬁve-week 
work term of her program. She decided to stick around, and  
she’s been with us ever since.  
“I just love it! I love that I can relate to my clients. I can tell them 
my story. I do share it with them. I can say that I was in their 
shoes, and that I was on assistance too. I think it inspires my 
clients to know that they’re not just talking to someone who 
doesn’t know what they’re going through.”
<<<PAGE 19>>>
Tara Smith’s son Teddy was diagnosed with Autism Spectrum 
disorder when he was two and a half. Because of his unique 
situation, Tara was always conscious about where she would 
take him for child care.  
“I’ve always said to myself that I would never go to work or 
leave Teddy, unless I knew with 100% certainty  that he was 
going to be absolutely safe. Once we joined the YMCA, it’s 
like a smaller community, within a community. We have 
developed friendships. Some of our closest friends are now 
part of the Y.” 
As a single mom, Tara also faced barriers in aﬀording child 
care such as the YPHD Program that was recommended by 
one of Teddy’s teachers. She was able to ﬁnd support from 
YMCA Strong Kids, and Teddy has been playing basketball 
and running track and ﬁeld ever since.
  
“The YMCA Strong Kids Campaign changed our lives. I was in a 
situation where I really needed help and they were fantastic, the 
whole team took Teddy in and really embraced him. They made 
him feel part of everything.” 
–  Tara Smith
<<<PAGE 20>>>
Abilities in  
Motion (AIM)
Gwen MacLachlan joined the AIM program in 2014. At 83 years old, 
and dealing with the symptoms of MS, Gwen had diﬃculty moving 
and used a walker to get around. After coming to AIM, she is able to 
walk between the parallel bars!  
She says that AIM helped her maintain her mobility and 
independence, but it wasn’t just the physical activity that helped her. 
The friendship and caring environment also had a positive eﬀect. She 
says, “AIM is a wonderful and caring community. The amount that 
the participants and volunteers care for each other is what makes it 
particularly special.” 
To sum it up, Gwen makes her feelings on AIM pretty clear, “It is the 
greatest thing since sliced bread!” 
Gwen
“AIM is a wonderful and 
caring community. The 
amount that the participants 
and volunteers care for  
each other is what makes  
it particularly special.” 
– Gwen MacLachlan
<<<PAGE 21>>>
Paul Curwin has been with AIM for over 10 years. In addition 
to his work with AIM, Paul is a member of the YMCA and 
he also teaches YMCA Forever Fit. He is a much loved and 
highly respected volunteer, with many of the participants 
crediting him as their favourite part of the program. Gwen 
MacLachlan says that he is the “number one person.” Shelley 
Conrad says that it is him that makes the program “so 
special.” And Paul feels the same way about the participants.  
“AIM lifts my spirit. There’s lots of mutual respect and support. AIM 
makes life better, and the members make it special. This program 
helps people stay ﬁt or get ﬁt, set goals, and feel proud of their 
achievements. I think AIM ﬁlls a gap in the rehab world.”
–  Paul Curwin
Paul
<<<PAGE 22>>>
“Getting back self-esteem 
is a big part of the process. 
That’s where the YMCA 
team kicks in and says ’okay, 
get rid of those negative 
thoughts – let’s help you 
ﬁnd the right track for you.”
– Gene MacCabe
Gene received assistance through YMCA Employment Centre on Wyse Road
Gene
<<<PAGE 23>>>
Sabrina Lewis graduated with a diploma in Health Information 
Management from NSCC. She says that if you had asked her 
three years ago where she imagined herself, her current life 
would deﬁnitely be a surprise.  
April 1, 2010 was her last day of work in Customer Service. She 
decided that the situation should become an opportunity, and 
that going back to school to receive more education was her 
best chance. Sabrina attended career planning sessions at the 
Dartmouth YMCA Employment Centre and realized that she 
wanted to go into healthcare. She wanted to help people, but 
avoid blood. 
As part of her program, Sabrina participates in “Service Learning” 
where students give back to the community. Each year, they 
raise funds for the Bone Marrow Transplant Comfort Fund at the 
QEII Hospital to support patients and their families in the diﬃcult 
times of illness.  
All in all, Sabrina says the last two years have changed her life for 
the better. “I realize now that when they say ‘you can do anything 
you put your mind to’ that they are right!”
Sabrina
“I realize now that when they 
say ‘you can do anything you 
put your mind to’ that they  
are right!”
– Sabrina Lewis
<<<PAGE 24>>>
John A. Irvine was a member of the Halifax YMCA Board of Directors at 
the turn of the 20th century. At the 46th Annual Meeting in April 1900, the 
president noted the good work that J. A. Irvine had been doing in the Boy’s 
department. Boy’s Work Committee started in Halifax circa 1890.
Pictured: Mrs. Murielle Duckworth at Cornerstone Laying Ceremony 
(November 14, 1951) 
“In all our work, let it be distinctly understood 
that we do not wish to bring boys here to 
teach them how to make a living, but rather 
to teach them how to live.”
– John Irvine, Chairman of Boys Work Committee
Hi-Yer’s Robbie 
MacKeigan/Margaret 
Webb Honouring Dr. 
JMC Duckworth (1962)
Jack Duckworth
Jack Duckworth was a staﬀ person in the YMCA for over 35 years 
with the ﬁnal 15 years of his professional career at the Halifax 
YMCA as General Secretary (Chief Executive Oﬃce) from 1947 to 
1962. Jack oversaw the construction and opening of the South 
Park YMCA building. The commencement of the Community Y 
occurred during Jack’s tenure and the evolution of the largest 
Hi-Y Club and youth program in a YMCA in Canada. Jack was also 
strongly committed to the peace movement and he and his wife,  
Muriel, devoted much of their time to the cause of peace.
A. Gordon Archibald 
A. Gordon Archibald was an 
outstanding volunteer in the 
Halifax YMCA beginning in the 
1940’s. He served as President 
from 1949 to 1953 and was 
Chairman of the Campaign & 
Building Committee that resulted 
in the South Park YMCA. 

<<<PAGE 25>>>
Did you know?
1854: Halifax had a population of 20,000 with a large naval and military presence. There were a disproportionately large number of licensed and 
unlicensed establishments. Community leaders recognized the need to provide a safe, healthy alternative for young men coming into Halifax “from  
the country” who were otherwise distracted by the metaphorical bright lights of Halifax. 
There were well-delivered, topical lectures that were popular across North America in the late 1800s as a form of entertainment – prior to the 
introduction of movies. 
1855: Halifax YMCA had its ﬁrst YMCA Annual Report in Canada
• Membership fee: 1£
• Expenses: 374£ (pounds) 7s (shillings) 3d (pence) 
1900: Howard Crocker, Phys Ed. Director at the Halifax Y became the most inﬂuential physical educator in Canada between 1900-1930. Crocker  
set the standard for teaching physical education. 
September 2, 1860: Two members did the ﬁrst YMCA “fundraising blitz” by calling on 20 members in one hour – they made 12£.
January 15, 1878: Demonstration of the telephone at the Halifax YMCA with 120 attendees. 
1901: YMCA orchestra was active at YMCA functions and performed at church socials and other community organization meetings during year.
1930: In addition to WW1, WW2 and the HFX explosion, the Great Depression of the 1930’s added to the burden on the Barrington Street Y. The Y 
was heavily used during the Great Depression.
1969: Kinderschool Y program at Kin House on Caledonia Road.
1981: Full-day Day Care opens in 1981.
<<<PAGE 26>>>

<<<PAGE 27>>>

<<<PAGE 28>>>
December 6, 1853 
A small group of men meeting in an oﬃce of the 
Peter Lynch formed the Halifax YMCA. One of the 
ﬁrst formed in North America. First “rooms” were in 
the Forrester Building on Barrington Street.
1953
South Park Street 
YMCA opened 
at the cost of 
$1,500,000.
1889
Big Cove Camp  
was established. 
1912 
New building  
erected on  
Barrington Street.
1923 
Y Men’s Club of  
Halifax founded. 
1975 - 1980
Big Cove Camp operated the last season 
since opening as the children’s residential 
summer camp, until 1980 when it reopened 
for resident camping once again.  
1965 - 1969
Pre-employment Classes for 
school drop outs to enable 
them to continue and 
upgrade their education.
 
1983 - 1985
Carole MacDougall, the 
ﬁrst woman Board Chair 
for the YMCA. 
Serving youth in community-based settings in the 
areas of employment and personal and community 
enrichment, starting with the Options Project. The Y’s 
Job Generation Project, which was funded by Human 
Resource Development Canada, ran successfully for more 
than 10 years and served unemployed youth with  
multiple barriers to employment.
1992
Our YMCA started working in partnership with 
schools throughout our community to support 
the settlement families new to Canada. 
1970 - 1972
Metro wide campaign 
to renovate South 
Park YMCA building, 
including the building 
of Rockingham YMCA, 
and repairs to the 
Community YMCA 
facilities. 
1952 1953
November 21, 1952 
The Community YMCA opened 
in the Old Children’s Library and 
was known as the Brunswick 
Street Division of the YMCA.
A stroll down memory lane
History of events throughout the years at the YMCA of Greater Halifax/Dartmouth
December 6, 1917  |  Halifax Explosion 
Volunteer helpers at work within an hour removing debris, preparing beds, cots and 
supplies – dressings, food and medicine.
 Three hundred cases of injury received 
attention in the ﬁrst two days! 2,500 people were treated during this period. 
1874
Prince Street Building erected. The ﬁrst permanent 
home of the Halifax “Y” among the ﬁrst and ﬁnest 
YMCA Buildings on this continent in its day. 
Cost was $40,000.
1939 - 1945
• Lobby and gym used as ﬁrst hostel at the 
 outbreak of the war. Halifax Ladies College  
 purchased, adapted, equipped and  
 operated  by YMCA as a hostel. 
• During WWII, the YMCA became especially   
 known for it’s “Tea Cars”  that delivered hot  
 tea and biscuits to soldiers.
1965- 1969
1970- 1972
1874 1889 1912 1917
 1975- 1980
1983- 1992
1992
The Post Oﬃce on 
Gottingen Street is  
bought to house the  
new Community 
YMCA. 
1853 1923
 1939- 1945
<<<PAGE 29>>>
2019
John W. Lindsay YMCA 
slated to open its doors. 
2000
First woman President and 
CEO, Bette Watson-Borg. 
2009
Planning and development to bring  
a “new YMCA Centre of Community  
to Peninsular Halifax and the region  
is a major initiative underway.”
2003
• YMCA turned 150 years old 
• Development of the ﬁrst Strong Kids Campaign  
(contributions totalled over $91,000) 
• YMCA Newcomer Services received the Citation for  
Citizenship – the Federal Government recognizes  
organizations/individuals for their service to  
immigrants. The YMCA was nominated by the Nova  
Scotia Human Rights Commission
2014
• YMCA partnered with the province to  
 leverage existing resources and expertise in  
 immigration to oﬀer YREACH 
• Closed the South Park YMCA on May 30, 2014,  
 after serving the community for over 60 years  
• The new YMCA to be named -- John W. Lindsay 
2016
• YMCA is part of the national initiative to welcome  
 Syrian refugees, helping over 800 refugees feel at  
 home across the province  
• Partnership begins between YMCA Employment  
 Services and Nova Scotia Works
• Excavation began for the John W. Lindsay YMCA 
2017
• November 17, 2017  
 Wade Smith, a long time volunteer with the YMCA,  
 wins a Posthumous Senate of Canada 150 Medal
• Premier Stephen McNeil and Member of Parliament  
 for Halifax Andy Fillmore helped unveil the cornerstone  
 of its new John W. Lindsay YMCA facility on the corner  
 of South Park and Sackville Streets
Breakfast 
2018
November 22, 2018 
YMCA Peace Medal Breakfast at Pier 21 with 
Bridget Brownlow, President of Peaceful 
Schools International, as award recipient and 
keynote speaker.  
2018
November 21, 2018 
The ﬁrst ever “Out and Equal” 2SLGBT+ 
Job Fair held at our YMCA NS Works 
Gottingen Street location.
2000 2004
2004
• YMCA named the oﬃcial charity of the  
 Blue Nose International Marathon  
• John Lindsay Sr. appointed into the  
 YMCA Fellowship of Honour 
20092003
 2014 2015 2017 2018 2019
2016

<<<PAGE 30>>>
“The YMCA feels like home 
to me. It’s great to have a 
safe place to come to and 
hang out.” 
– Heavyn Beals
<<<PAGE 31>>>
Leadership starts here.
From the age of four, the Community Y on Gottingen Street has been a huge part of Heavyn 
Beals’ life. Her family connections to the YMCA runs deep – she started out playing on a Little 
Dribblers basketball team coached by her dad.
Heavyn played on the midget-level Panthers team and was often found shooting hoops at 
the Community Y. In addition to practicing her skills on the courts, Heavyn also participated 
in many of the Community YMCA programs for children and youth, including Kids in the 
Kitchen, the after school program, and Junior Leaders. “The YMCA feels like home to me,” she 
says. “It’s great to have a safe place to come to and hang out.” 
Heavyn says that the Junior Leaders program in particular made a big impact on her life. As 
part of the program she was given opportunities to volunteer with younger kids and work 
on career planning, which both inspired her future plans. “I want to be a child psychologist,” 
says Heavyn. “I love working with kids. I want to know what their problems are and help 
them through it.” 
Heavyn is doing very well since the Panthers, currently playing for a prep school in Ottawa, 
Central Tech Blue. 
Heavyn
<<<PAGE 32>>>
“Because of the Y, 
I’m on a journey 
that is ﬁlled with 
light and joy!” 
– Linda Carey
Linda

<<<PAGE 33>>>
Nine years ago, Linda got a big wake up call from her doctor. 
Her partner had recently passed away after battling illness for 
three years, she was dealing with stress in her job and her only 
coping mechanism was over-eating and poor food choices. 
Linda’s doctor had diagnosed her with Type 2 Diabetes. It was 
a pivotal moment for Linda and she asked her doctor for some 
time to turn things around before starting on medication.  
That’s when Linda found out about YMCA Forever Fit classes 
and started attending regularly. 
 After going to classes for a few months, Linda was able to 
get her health back on track. Linda was so dedicated to the 
program that two of the instructors took her under their 
wings and encouraged her to go through training to become 
an instructor herself. Linda’s life was transformed and she was 
able to avoid diabetes medication. 
“At the time when I got involved with the Y, I was at a low level 
of depression and sadness, and heading for disease,” Linda 
says, “Because of the Y, I’m on a journey that is ﬁlled with light 
and joy!” 
 The diﬃcult times were made easier by the support she had 
from the participants in her classes, but her health challenges 
were not over. In 2012, Linda was diagnosed with breast 
cancer and continued to teach throughout her treatment. “My 
people encouraged me,” she says. “They kept me strong.” 
“We’re not just a class, we are friends,” says Linda with a 
beaming smile. She plans to keep teaching for years to come, 
following in the footsteps of Ida Hebert, a former YMCA yoga 
instructor in Ontario who holds the Guiness World Record 
for oldest yoga instructor. “I have her picture up on my fridge. 
That’s going to be me!”
A healthier you starts here. 
<<<PAGE 34>>>
Meet Shawn (left)
Shawn grew up going to the Community Y, and learned a lot of 
valuable life lessons. He wanted to start volunteering to give back 
to the kids, and has been volunteering for a total of 15 years at our 
YMCA. Shawn coaches the Junior NBA and Panthers Basketball 
teams. Both of his sons now play! He says, “kids are the best 
motivator for volunteering. They’re engaged and want to learn.” 
Thank you for your years of service Shawn!
Meet 
Madhurima (left) 
She started 
volunteering in 2017 
when she moved to 
Halifax from India. 
She’s been a huge 
support at the YMCA 
helping with events 
and assisting with 
administrative tasks. 
She’s gained new skills fundraising, which have helped her to better 
understand the Canadian workplace culture. Always ready to lend 
a hand, her sewing and educator skills have increased the number 
of participants at the YMCA Centre for Immigrant Programs Sewing 
Social. She says, “The Centre for Immigrant Programs is so full of 
energy and amazing set of people, volunteers, and staﬀ, that are 
working toward making Halifax/Dartmouth an absolutely wonderful 
place to live” . Thank You, Madhurima.
The Value of  Volunteering

<<<PAGE 35>>>
Meet Twila (centre)
Twila volunteers assisting instructor Linda Carey at our Forever Fit program. Each participant 
gave Twila glowing reviews saying, “she has the greatest laugh and most infectious smile” . 
“She doesn’t just open the door, she actually greets us for every class.” Linda emphasized 
that she couldn’t do the class without Twila, “she’s always there when I need her. If someone 
falls sick, or misses class for a few days, she follows up with a phone call. People have to 
understand that we have a large variety of individuals, and as an instructor my people are 
my heart. When someone gets sick or can’t go on, Twila is there to help me ... and that’s 
what it’s all about.” Thank You, Twila. 
Meet Susan  
(far left)
Susan came to the 
YMCA about 7 years 
ago for rehabilitation 
with the Abilities in 
Motion Program (AIM) 
after sustaining injuries 
from a car accident. At the end of each workout session she practiced 
Tai Chi, and soon enough other participants in AIM took notice and 
wanted to learn Tai Chi as well! Susan decided to volunteer teaching 
Tai Chi at AIM, and has been for about 5 years now. Thank you, Susan!
Meet Svetlana
Svetlana volunteers 
at our Centre 
for Immigrant 
Programs in the 
Active Children’s 
Program, assisting 
with several 
activities (including 
martial arts!), events, and trips, as well as helping students with their 
homework during Youth Homework Club. We appreciate all you do, 
Svetlana! 

<<<PAGE 36>>>
“Grand Friends is a 
unique opportunity 
for children to have 
close contact with 
older generations 
and to begin to 
understand the 
aging process. For 
many seniors, it’s a 
reason to get up in 
the morning.” 
– Marg MacDonald 
YMCA Grand Friends Lead
In loving memory of  
George James “Marshmallow” Forsyth  
(July 5, 1929  – April 25, 2016)
<<<PAGE 37>>>
Grand Friends
George “Marshmallow”  Forsyth 
To the children from the YMCA Child Care programs 
he was known simply as “Marshmallow.” A jokester 
at heart, George Forsyth was always excited to take 
part in the Grand Friends program at the Camp Hill 
Veterans Memorial Building.  
The Grand Friends program brings together children 
from our YMCA Child Care with the residents at Camp 
Hill for social activities, including arts and crafts, 
gardening, music, baking, and physical activity. It 
oﬀers a unique experience for both generations to 
get to know each other and develop friendships. 
George’s son, George Jr., often visited with his dad 
during the Grand Friends program and enjoyed 
seeing the smiles on the faces of the participants. 
His dad would light up when the kids came for visits. 
George Jr. says, “He called kids magical, because they 
can do anything they want or be anybody they want 
when they grow up.” 
George Sr.’s favourite activity with the kids was art 
and he loved having pictures that the kids gave to 
him decorating his room. A veteran of the Korean 
War and living with Alzheimer’s disease, George 
recognized the pictures of himself with the kids from 
Grand Friends on display in Camp Hill.  
The nickname “Marshmallow” originally came 
from George’s family as he frequently roasted 
marshmallows with his children, grandchildren, 
and great-grandchildren over ﬁres in the backyard. 
George Jr. would bring in mini marshmallows for his 
dad to share with the kids in Grand Friends and one 
of them called him “The Marshmallow Man.” From 
then on, the nickname “Marshmallow” stuck and the 
kids loved to visit him and share a mini treat!
<<<PAGE 38>>>
Terry Dixon has a long history with the YMCA. He currently works 
as a Job Developer with the YMCA NS Works Employment Centre 
in Dartmouth.  Previously, he has held positions such as Director 
of the Community YMCA, Manager of the Boys Midget Basketball 
Team, Coach, and Chair of the Fundraising Committee. 
A favourite memory of his multi-layered career with the Y was 
in 2015 when he took the YMCA Panthers Basketball team on 
a trip to New York City. 
Along with two coaches and three parents, Terry travelled 
with eight players. For them, part of the trip was playing in the 
“Hall of Fame” tournament in the Basketball Hall of Fame in 
Springﬁeld, Massachusetts. With over 300 teams at all diﬀerent 
levels, he said that it was “a great experience for the kids 
because they are challenged in their skills.”  
In the ﬁnal game of the tournament, the team was down to only 
ﬁve players. But they didn’t let that stop them! “It would be easy 
at 14 years old, when your top three players are sitting on the 
bench, it would be easy to say ‘we’re done.’ But they didn’t. They 
made that team beat them. They didn’t beat themselves.” 
But that trip was about more than basketball, says Terry. 
“If I could put it in one word…memories. To make memories. 
All of us, the older guys and even the guys a generation away 
from me, we remember the trips. We remember. We are able 
to provide these kids with this opportunity to go to New York, 
and give them memories of that. It’s more than just the trips 
or stopping here and there. It’s also the interaction between 
the players in the hotel rooms. The teasing each other; 
throwing water on someone who’s sleeping. Those kinds 
of things.” It’s also important that all the kids that want the 
opportunity do receive it. It’s something that Terry believes 
the YMCA does its best to achieve.  
“We try our best to make sure that every child has the 
opportunity to be involved in our programs no matter what 
their ﬁnancial situation is. That’s huge. I think that that’s one of 
the things that as an employee of the Y, and volunteer with the 
Y, I’m most proud of. It’s the fact that we go out of our way to 
make sure that every child has every opportunity, no matter 
what. I love that.”  
<<<PAGE 39>>>
“We try our best to make 
sure that every child has 
the opportunity to be 
involved in our programs 
no matter what their 
ﬁnancial situation is. 
That’s huge.” 
– Terry Dixon
Terry

<<<PAGE 40>>>
Irvine Carvery is the current Director of the Community 
YMCA as his life comes full-circle. Describing himself as a 
“Y Guy,” he came to the Community YMCA after he was 
relocated into the city from Africville when his community 
was destroyed in 1965.  
He was attending a diﬀerent school than his old school 
friends, and so the Community YMCA was the place to 
make new friends “in town” as he calls it.  
“It was always a place to go to meet friends, but more 
importantly, it was a place to go to stay out of trouble. 
Because we were always looking for trouble. Even today, 
parents in the community know that their child can be out 
at the Community YMCA. They know they’re going to be 
safe, and there are people that are going to care for them 
and love them as if they were family members.” 
Irvine sees his role at the YMCA as just a small way he can give 
back to the community that gave so much to him. Recently a 
coaches meeting at the Community YMCA reminded him of 
this dedication that everyone in the community feels.
“That sense of belonging, that sense 
of responsibility – that’s what makes 
the YMCA special. Every one of those 
coaches in that gym were there 
for the right reasons because they 
wanted to give back what they were 
able to get out of being a part of the 
Community YMCA.” 
 – Irvine Carvery
Irvine
<<<PAGE 41>>>
Jade Verney’s life at the Y started at 10 years old when she 
came to play basketball. Her ﬁrst coach was Stephen Nelson 
– the very person that she now shares an oﬃce with as Youth 
Development Coordinator for the Community YMCA!  
Jade played basketball from ages 10 to 16, including playing 
for Citadel High School. She came back to coach in order to 
give back to the kids. After working for the YMCA part-time 
since 2011, she secured her full-time position last fall.  
“Being able to come back home and live through the Y all 
over again and securing a full-time position just makes me 
not want to go anywhere else. I love this place.” 
Jade is now bringing her son up through the YMCA basketball 
program, and he’s starting out with the same coach she had – 
Stephen Nelson!
“It’s all in the family!”  
“Being able to come back home 
and live through the Y all over again 
and securing a full-time position 
just makes me not want to go 
anywhere else. I love this place.” 
– Jade Verney 
Youth Ambassador, 
YMCA of Greater Halifax/Dartmouth Jade
<<<PAGE 42>>>
“My Y story 
is helping 
others create 
their own  
Y Story.” 
– Stephen Nelson 
Program Director at the  
Community YMCA 
Stephen
<<<PAGE 43>>>
Stephen Nelson is the Program Director at the Community 
YMCA and has grown up in the Y.  
“Back in the day, there wasn’t a lot of technology, and 
when everyone had fun, it was at the Y. I started back when 
I was ﬁve or six, when my father was actually one of the 
coaches.” 
Stephen stuck it out with basketball with strong guidance 
from his coaches and parents. As his skills grew, he made 
his high school team and the Nova Scotia team, but he 
always credits the YMCA for building him up. 
He graduated from high school in Halifax and attended 
Cape Breton University to study a Bachelor of Arts in 
Community Studies while playing basketball. After 
graduating, he played basketball in China and Korea before 
coming back home. Upon his arrival back on Nova Scotia 
ground, he came to watch his niece’s basketball game, and 
within days became her coach.  
“The Y is that place. It’s that hub where it happens, and it 
never stops happening. The Y has just been here. We grew 
up thinking ‘Each One, Teach One’ and ‘if I got it, you got it’ 
and that’s all we knew.” 
“I have so may Y stories, but the biggest one that sticks 
out for me, is the exchange program. It’s when we take 
kids out of the community and show them other parts 
of Canada. I can see the impact and how it changes their 
lives. My Y story is helping others create their own Y Story.”
“The Y is that place. It’s that hub 
where it happens, and it never stops 
happening. The Y has just been here. 
We grew up thinking ‘Each One, 
Teach One’ and ‘if I got it, you got it’ 
and that’s all we knew.” 
– Stephen Nelson
<<<PAGE 44>>>
YMCA 
Community 
Action Network 
(YCAN) 
The YMCA Community Action Network  (YCAN) is one of Canada’s 
national youth service initiatives, part of the Canada Service Corps. The 
program is for young adults aged 15 to 30, and is led completely by the 
participants! Groups identify needs in their community and create service 
projects to address them, gaining employable skills throughout their 
journey. The YMCA’s role is to reduce barriers to participation and engage 
with youth who may not otherwise have the chance to participate in a 
service project.
Amber
Women Unlimited, an alternative option for 
young women who are looking to explore 
various trades. Should they choose this 
path, upon the completion of a 14-week 
program with Women Unlimited, they are 
offered a seat at NSCC in the trade of their 
choice! 
Pictured above: Amber Grosse, Program 
Coordinator YCAN in Halifax
<<<PAGE 45>>>
Gender-Based  
Violence Prevention 
Project (GBVP)  
Made possible thanks to support 
from Immigration, Refugees, and 
Citizenship Canada (IRCC), the YMCA 
of Greater Halifax/Dartmouth has launched a new Gender-Based 
Violence Prevention Project (GBVP) through their YMCA Centre 
for Immigrant Programs. The project began in September 2017 with 
a focus on working with newcomer children, youth, and families to 
raise awareness about gender-based violence and how to access 
available resources within their community. The Project also focuses 
on capacity building of service providers to engage, support, and 
better understand how gender-based violence impacts newcomer 
communities.service project.
YREACH
Our provincial YMCA YREACH Program provides 
information, orientation, and settlement/
integration support to Immigrants, Refugees, and their 
families who are new to communities outside of HRM.
We work with local partners to create welcoming 
communities and have staﬀ in multiple smaller 
centres across the province.
• Nine in-person, local Settlement and Integration  
support sites
• Over 20 diﬀerent Language Instruction sites
<<<PAGE 46>>>
Excerpts taken from The Coast feature in June 2014. The South Park Y officially closed its doors on May 30, 2014.
Our Farewell to 
South Park YMCA
Member of YMCA Halifax since 1975, served on the Board of 
Directors for 10 years starting in 1980, President 1988/1989.
“There are people here that have known each 
other I’m sure for 25 years, and if you ask them 
what that person did for a living, they wouldn’t 
know, because they wouldn’t care. All they care 
about is who you are. And that’s kind of nice.” 
“The YMCA has always been at the leading 
edge of community need. YMCA programs 
have traditionally been developed in response 
to unmet community needs.  When the 
community has met those needs, the Y has 
moved on to address new needs that have not 
yet been met.”
Fred Honsberger
Started working at the YMCA in 2006. As team leader in membership and sales, she 
was the friendly face you’d see weekday mornings at the front desk and (still) calls 
the Y her second home.
“I worked full time at the front desk. It actually reminded me 
of back home. Our home always had people coming in and 
out. I’m a people person. We were raised always surrounded by 
people. The members, I got to know them and developed some 
relationships with them. We became a family in this space.” 
“I think the Y is important because to have a strong community 
you will have a healthy community. It’s a place you can always 
come in and be accepted no matter who you are.”
Amy Hunt
<<<PAGE 47>>>
“We can solve the problems of the 
world after class over our coﬀee. We 
could run this city, no problem.” 
“I come for the exercise but also the 
camaraderie. We’ve all gone through 
various things, so when we sit on the 
couches, we’re able to open up to 
each other as well.” 
“If anyone needs us, we will listen. If 
anyone has a problem, you know you 
can talk to someone. At other facilities 
people work out, they go home – this 
is so much more.” 
“People always ask me why the Y? And I instinctually say it’s because 
of the pool. And for the most part that is true, but for me it’s because 
I’ve always felt comfortable being a member of that organization. 
I like the fact that they don’t refuse anyone their services. It’s 
important to feel comfortable in the place where you’re trying to 
better yourself because it can be a really vulnerable experience.” 
“It’s the connections you have that are fascinating. Anybody 
can go to the Y, it welcomes all ages. It’s not just buﬀ gym 
bodies. It’s people with diﬀerent body shapes, diﬀerent 
ages, abilities, income levels, and they all feel pretty darn 
comfortable there.” 
“A phrase from the Y a number of years ago was ‘you can 
go anywhere but you belong to the Y.’ I see that. It’s that real 
connection of community. It’s that intangible thing you 
experience. (There is) just something about the Y.”
Samantha Twohig
Hugh Gillis
Aquafit volunteer instructor since 1987
Member since 2006
Early Morning Group
Quotes from the class participants, led by instructor Suzanne McDonough
<<<PAGE 48>>>
John Lindsay Sr.
John Lindsay Sr. was a volunteer, member, and ambassador of the 
YMCA of Greater Halifax/Dartmouth. John joined the Board of the 
YMCA in early 1960s and remained as Director until 1971, all while 
remaining an active and encouraging participant of his much-
loved YMCA exercise class. He was also active in every YMCA fund 
raising campaign from 1970 to the time of his passing in 2006. 
In 2005, he was appointed to the YMCA Fellowship of Honour 
in a ceremony on Parliament Hill. Because of his dedication and 
passion for the YMCA, the new Centre of Community was named 
in his honour.  
Even after his passing, John was recognized for his generosity and 
care. Marjorie and John were celebrated for their philanthropic 
work in our community with a Lifetime Achievement Award 
from the Association of Funding Professionals at the 30th annual 
Maritime Philanthropy Awards in 2016. Marjorie reminisced on her 
husband’s giving spirit, saying, “I had an amazing marriage, to an 
amazing man, and I shaped him well!”

<<<PAGE 49>>>
John Lindsay Sr. is survived by his wife, Marjorie, their children, John 
Jr. and Deborah Rotta-Loria , and their grandchildren, who were his 
deepest passions. His contributions to, and involvement with, the YMCA 
of Greater Halifax/Dartmouth are an integral part of our history.
<<<PAGE 50>>>
“Next to my family and friends, the YMCA is the 
most important thing in my life. I met my wife at 
the YMCA and my children went to daycare there. 
I have developed lifelong friendships with many 
people I would never have met had I not been a 
member.
When the new facility opens, so many of us will be 
excited to go to our new second-home, welcome 
new members to the YMCA family, and create new 
memories.”
– Jim MacGowan 
Jim holds up a shower handle from the old South Park YMCA that he keeps 
in his gym bag as a reminder that he will soon be home again in our new 
YMCA! 

<<<PAGE 51>>>

<<<PAGE 52>>>
www.ymcahfx.ca
YMCA of Greater Halifax/Dartmouth
5670 Spring Garden Rd, Suite 306, Halifax, NS  B3J 1H6  |  (902) 423-9709
Charitable Registration No. 136 560 760 RR001
165 YEARS of Community Building
@YMCAHD
Follow Us Online! 