Source: Postmedia Content Works / Montreal Gazette
Title: Rewilding childhood: How one summer camp is tackling nature-deficit disorder among Montreal youth
Author: Ursula Leonowicz, Postmedia Content Works
Published: March 4, 2026
URL: Montreal Gazette (Postmedia)
Type: Sponsored content / advertorial on behalf of the YMCAs of Québec

---

Even though they're digitally always connected, both kids and teenagers are experiencing unprecedented levels of loneliness and anxiety. Due to their increased reliance on screens and reduced access to the great outdoors, they're being affected by what's referred to as "nature-deficit disorder."

The term was originally coined by Richard Louv in 2005 to describe the effects of alienation from nature caused by technology, among other reasons. Particularly in children, nature-deficit disorder is also linked to obesity and depression as well as attention issues and higher rates of emotional and physical illness. Research also suggests that it weakens stewardship of the natural world.

At Camp YMCA Kanawana, they have recognized this issue and have been tackling it for years.

"I think there's a few things that make Kanawana a really special place for me," says Xavier Maclaren, who attended the camp for six summers before becoming a camp counsellor and canoe tripper. "It's a place where you learn about nature, how to survive in nature and how to respect nature. It's also a place where I've developed some really good friendships and learned how to be the person that I am today."

Camp YMCA Kanawana was founded in the summer of 1894 when the YMCA of Montréal's Billy Ball took a group of boys to a camp on an island on Lac Saint-Joseph in Saint-Adolphe-d'Howard. The idea was to take city youth away from everyday life and teach them about group dynamics, team-building and leadership. That year, the camp, which was Quebec's first residential summer camp, opened with a total of 20 campers. Looking for something larger, the YMCA acquired a site in Saint-Sauveur in 1910 when 85 campers registered for the summer session. In 1968, Kanawana started welcoming girls, beginning a long tradition of inclusion and diversity. An English camp that's accessible to kids who speak many other languages including French, Camp YMCA Kanawana does its best to accommodate campers with different needs and diverse abilities.

With three private lakes on a 550-acre domain in Saint-Sauveur — and no cellphones or Wi-Fi — the unplugged camp is a change of pace and scenery for most campers who are used to city life.

At camp, each day is an outdoor adventure dedicated to learning survival techniques as well as canoeing, rock climbing, archery and axe throwing. As for creative pursuits, arts and crafts, music and dance are all offered. Whether it's sitting around a campfire, singing call-and-response songs in the forest or learning new skills, all the activities are designed to challenge participants, foster creativity, encourage outdoor exploration and help create new friendships. These can be difficult to cultivate for teenagers in particular, especially those who don't participate in camp and have nothing to look forward to in the summer other than scrolling on social media and gaming.

"During my teenage years, Kanawana really helped me develop a sense of confidence," Maclaren says. "I remember the first time I went down a rapid in a canoe, and I was so scared. But when I got down, I thought it was awesome."

There are regular, leadership and expedition programs for kids aged seven to 17 that last between 12 and 48 days, all of which encourage campers to develop new skills through teamwork and community living. Whether it's to become a camp counsellor, a canoe trip guide or a program coordinator, Camp YMCA Kanawana has the program for teens to acquire new childcare, camping, program planning and survival skills.

If cost is an issue, financial assistance is available through the YMCA's financial assistance program.

The motto at Camp Kanawana is non nobis solum, which means "not for ourselves alone," and according to Maclaren, that motto goes beyond camp. "What I learned from non nobis solum is the feeling of caring for people other than yourself, of caring for nature, of caring for your environment, of supporting the people you love around you, and bringing them up when they're having a tough moment; that's living not for yourself alone," he explains.

For more information about Camp YMCA Kanawana, which is located at 673 Saint-Elmire St. in Saint-Sauveur-des-Monts, 45 minutes north of Montreal, email camp.kanawana@ymcaquebec.org or visit campkanawana.org.

This story was created by Content Works, Postmedia's commercial content division, on behalf of the YMCAs of Québec.
