a» Report of Junior Camp Committee, 1900. 
The Junior Camp was held this year from Thursday June 28th. to Saturday 
July 14th. It was a record Camp in point of numbers as is shown by the 
following figures, 
45 Boys, 6 Leaders, 17 Visitors, & Mr. Calhoun and Mr. Brown 
in charge. 
Fifteen boys joined the Dep't to go to Camp. 
Six tents were used for sleeping in and some of the boys slept in- the 
house; the tents were in charge of the following leaders, 
Messrs. A.Peden, H.Beall, D.McGavin, G.Shaw, W.K.L.Greig 
and Mr. Brown. 
The weather was very rainy, 11 days out of 16 being wet, and con— 
sequently it was very hard to keep the boys amused and in control. 
Morning and evening prayers were held each ésé day ) three Friday 
night meetings and on Sundays three services, eee Bible 
class and evening song service. 
The cook was only fairly satisfactory and was disgustingly dirty in 
his work—though some excuse is found in the fact that the kitchen is 
too small to prepare food in for such a number. 


The financial statement is attached and shows a balance of $ 5.05 in 


the bank. 


Gey 


The Camp received as a donation from Mr. Marotte the tea, coffee 


‘ 


and spices ordered from Marotte Leblanc and Co. 


The following sugcestions are referred to the Permanent Camp Com'te, 


1.) That the party which goes out prevéous to the Junior Advance pary 
should cet accurate information as to the state of the Camp equipment. 
2.) That a mail—box be put up in the house where all outgoing nail 
may be placed, also that the teamster be provided with a bag to carry 
the mail back and forth in. 
3.) That the chimney be fixed in some way to prevent its smoking. 
4.) That more butter plates and salt cellars be purchased. 
5.) That a rainbarrel or pump be installed beside the kitchen in orde 
that the cook may have no excuse for not washing the dishes »vroperly. 
6.) That some sort -f cover or boathouse be provided under which the 
boats may be put at night also rope painters and rope and anchor for 
each boat. 
7.) That rubber sheets be purchased for the tents as part of the Camp 
equipment. 
8.) That an athletic field be procured as soon @ S possible. 
Respectfully submitted 
S (loan. 


Chairman Jr. Camp. Com' te 


