MAN CULTURE 


YounG Men's CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF THE CITY OF MONTREAL 
North Branch: 
CORNER PARK AVENUE AND ST. VIATEUR STREET 


Board of Management 


W. A. WiILsoN, Chatrman  H.R.MacGrecor, Vice-Chatrman 
G. W. Exttiort, Treasurer W.B. Basnaw, Recording Sec’y. 


Jupce Sera P. Leer R. J. Larimer 


G. R. MacGrecor S. W. CUTHBERT 
C. McFaRLAnp Hy. BLAcHForp 
R. L. CHARLTON C. DINGMAN 

Jz HLS: Parke H. T. Diptock 
H. SLoan A. E. SHAW 

Re FH. Price G. S. RorKke 


D.W. McKecuntg, M-D. 
W. J. Hotitmay, General Secretary 
Haroip C. Cross, W. S. Macuire, 
Boys Work Secretary Physical Director 


HE history of the North Branch of the Younc MEn’s 
CuRISTIAN ASsOcIATION from its organization has been 
one of progress. 

The Dedication Service to be held Sunday after- 


noon, April 14th, marks the culmination of a work 


begun about five years ago, when a few earnest men 
met together to provide some definite means to. advance 
the welfare of the young men and boys of the community. 

The work which had such a humble beginning is-now housed 
in a new and splendid home, most admirably adapted to serve to 
the fullest extent the requirements of a large and active membership. 

That there was a need in this rapidly growing district for such 
a building was apparent to the Board of Directors several years 
ago, and the present suitable building is their response to that need. 

The building is completed and ready for service. The respon- 
sibility now rests upon the citizens of this district to co-operate in 


carrying on a work so well begun. 


A few Facts about the Building 


Artistically finished in natural wood, open fire- 


Reception Hall. 


place, furnished with window seats and comfortable 
chairs, An ideal place to spend an evening in social intercourse or 
with the latest current magazines, of which a number will be provided. 
‘ 39 x 57 feet. Well lighted and well ventilated. 
Gymnasium. : r ; : 
Complete and modern equipment. Graded running 
track, 36 laps to the mile. The schedule of classes being outlined 
will provide physical exercise for the boy of 12 or the man of 50. 


Natatori d The swimming pool is beautifully finished in white 
atatorium an 


Shower Rowni and colored mosaic. 18 x 45 feet, 44 to 7 feet 


in depth. Water will always be kept at an even 
temperature. Six showers with latest non-scalding attachment. 


Separate locker rooms for men and boys. 


Bowling Alleys. Three regulation 60 foot alleys. 


Billiard Room. 
Lecture Hall. 


Class Rooms. 


Dining Room 
and Kitchen. 


Dormitories. 


Junior and 
Intermediate 
Section. 


Space has been provided for four tables. 

The Lecture Hall has seating capacity for 75, 
Two separate class rooms will provide facilities for 
Educational work. 

A well-furnished kitchen, with dining room ad- 
joining, will serve to foster the social spirit of 
the membership. 

26 well-lighted, comfortably furnished rooms for 
young men away from home. Present appearances 
indicate a greater demand than supply. 

Two large comfortably furnished rooms will pro- 


vide for the social life of boys from 12 to 17 years 


of age. 
Membership 


Any young man over seventeen years of age, with satisfactory 


references, may become a member of the Senior Department on 


payment of the fee. 


Fees are payable with application. 


A member removing to another city may have his membership 


transferred, but memberships are not transferable from one person 


to another. 


Sustaining—$10.00, 


Regular—$i .00. 


Limttead—$3.00. 


Regular—$5.00. 
Limtted—$2.50. 


$4.00. 


Regular 


Limtted—$2.00. 


MEMBERSHIP FEES 

SENIOR—Over 17 
Includes all privileges, also locker, 
Includes Gymnasium, Swimming, and_ Social 


Privileges. 


Includes use of Reading Room, and_ Social 
Privileges. 

INTERMEDIATE—15 to 17 
Includes Gymnasium, Swimming, and Social 
Privileges. 


Includes Reading Room-and Social Privileges, 
_JUNIOR—12 to 14 

Includes Gymnasium, Swimming, and Social 

Privileges. 


Includes Reading Room and Social Privileges. 


Programme for Opening Week 


Beginning Sunday, April 14th, 1912 


Sunpay, 4 O'CLOCK. 


ce 


Tuespay, 8-10 


WED., 3-5 S 


TuHursbay, 6.45 ‘‘ 


Fripay, 8-10 ‘ 


SaturpDay,10.12 * 


Dedication Service. All men heartily invited. 


Reception to Membership and General Public. 


Music. Addresses. Refreshments. 
Reception to Ladies by the Ladies’ Auxiliary, 


Opening of Two Weeks’ Membership 
Campaign. 

Reception by Boys’ Department to the 
Business Boys and Older Schoolboys. 

Reception by Boys’ Department to Junior 


Schoolboys. 


