BRIEF AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF ASSOCIATION CAREER 


-My first knowledge of the Young Men's Christian Association 
Game through reading the Annual Report of the Montreal Bible Society 
which was, in those days, housed in the Young Men's Christian Association 
Building, Victoria Square ,Montreal. 


In 1883 a gauky country lad climbed a flight of stairs and 
walked into the Young Men's Christian Association, then located on 
Victoria Square, Montreal, seeking for a boarding house. In the long 
hallway leading from the stairway into a reading room he was met by 
the Secretary, Mr. D. A. Budge. The hand-shake was characteristic of 
the man. That and the cordial words hed more than a passing influence. 
The effects remain until this day. The names of boarding houses were 
given and an invitation extended to attend the Saturday night Gospel 
meeting. Prom that time on none of these meetings were missed for the 
next ten years except when absent from the city. Largely through the 
influence of Mr. Budge, both in the Bible Class, personal workers’ class 
and through private conversation , I was led to take part in meetings, 
One of the methods of securing an attendance at the Gospel Meeting was 
to distribute little invitation cards on the street corners and in the 
saloons. It was my privilege to have a part in this work and after- 
wards to direct it. I speak of it as a privilege because the various 
kinds of ‘reception given to the little cards helped to develop Christian 
life and character. The Secretaryship of the Committee was given to 
me and afterwards the Chairmanship of the Sunday afternoon Bible class, 


During these early years in Montreal the Sunday night Strangers* 
tea was originated. To this were invited the young men arriving in the 
city during the week and m endeavor was made to make them feel at home 
and then invite them to the churches. The soliciting of fruit, the 
purchasing of supplies, the laying of the tables, the getting tea ready 
and serving it was a part of my work of those days. I also took an 
active part in the boys’ meetings which were under the leadership of 
Mr. Harold W. Buchanan. 


At the outbreak of the Riel Rebellion in 1885 I enlisted 
with the Montreal Garrison Artillery as a full private in the rear 
rank. About three months were spent on active service. Our corps 
was the last called out and only went as far as Long Lake, Sask. 


During my earlier days in Montreal I was apprenticed to the 
machinist trade. Force of circumstances, however, necessitated my 
leaving this, and after some shifting about secured a position in 
Drysdale & Co's, Book Store. 


In 1888 after very deliberate consideration it was decided 
to enter Association service. Mr. Budge very carefully placed all 
the difficulties before me clearly. He endeavored to make it 
perfectly plain that it was not to a life of ease or luxury that I 
was being called. I applied for entrance to the Y.M.C.A. College at 
Springfield and was admitted as a student. An unexpected vacancy, 
however, occurred in the Montreal Association which led the Executive 
to offer me the Assistant. Secretaryship. The salary was $40.00 per 
month. It was accepted September Ist, 1888, The great Moody meetings 
and the building campaign were features of the work during these years. 


aoQe 


I attended the Employed Officers’ Conference at Orange, N.J. 
in 1889 and the Philadelphia Convention which followed immediately. 
Two years were Spent as Assistant Secretary under the benign influence 
‘? Mr. Budge when application was again made for entrance to Spring- 

ield. 


In the Fall of 1891 I was given the position of Right Guard 
on Stagg's famous Springfield football team. I captained one side 
of the initial basket-ball game under the direction of Dr. James Naismith. 
= 
During the vacation period of 1891 I returned to Montreal and | 
took out to Jones’ Island, about 40 miles north-west of Montreal in f 
the Ottawa River, the first Montreal Boys'* Camp. A very unfortunate | 
circumstance occurred the first day we were under canvass. A lad » 
named David Louden while out swimming got beyond his depth and was ae 
drowned, Louden came from one of the finest homes in Montreal. On | 
the arrival of help the next day the camp was broken up and the site 
was never again used for this purpose, eel 


On graduation in 1892 I accepted a call to the them new 
building in Montreal located on Dominion Square, taking charge of 
membership, finances, etc. The need of an outing resort was felt keenly 
by many of the young men, and a small group composed of W. H. Ball, 

John W. Ross, Will Wilson, myself and others fomed a small syndicate to 
investigate the possibilities of securing an opening for a young men's 
campe St. Agathe District was visited by four of us and two or three 
days spent investigating in different directions. As a result it 

was decided to locate the first camp at Lac la Croix and in 1894 the 
first group went out. It was then discovered that just a little further 
on. there was a better location, and property with fishing privileges 

was secured at Lac St. Joseph. This camp has been operated ever since 
as a YeM.CeAe Gampe Within the past few years another property has 

been secured for the boys’ campe 


In the early part of 1894 I received and accepted a call to 
the General Secretaryship of the Winnipeg Association and in June of 
that year succeeded Mr. Herbert Gill, becoming the third Secretary 
of this Association. The first was Mr. C. M. Copeland. The 
Association was then housed in rooms at 205 Alexander Ave. corner of 
Main Street. The organization had rendered spendid service to the 
young men coming to this city but at the time the cause was small and 
the finances in bad shape. The Free Press Company even refused to 
put through an order for printing until the money was in their hands, 
The rooms consisted of about 1,200 square feet on one floor and divided 
into office, reading room, parlor sand meeting roomo From almost the 
very beginning I took an active part in the general church life and 
especially evangelistic work. Westminster Church elected me to the 
eldership. A representative church committee of which the late 
pastor, Alexander Grant was Chairman, and of which I was Secretary, 
wrote repeatedly to Mr. D. Le Moody urging him to come to Winnipeg. 
Our appeal succeeded in 1897 end great meetings were held in the 
Brydon Rink on Princess Street. . 


Prior to my arrival som steps had already been taken to 
secure an Association Building for Wimipeg. The late Mre Re Je 
Whitla head deposited $1,000.00 fin the bank on account of a $5,000.00 
subscription. The question of a building was constantly up for 


o ; -3=— 


discussion, but the necessary money was not available. A lot 

88 X 132 was finally purchased at the corner of Portage Avenue 

and Smith Street and was held by trustees. About 1898 a move was 
made from Alexander Avenue to 528-1/2 Main Street. The rooms were 
new but not very well stited for Association work. The only physical 
work during this period was foot-ball led by Mr. D. M. Duncan. 


Active canvassing for the proposed building was undertaken 
in 1898 and Mr. Geo. Browne was selected as architect. Not only was 
canvassing done in the bity but Messrs. Whitla and Ashdown went East 
soliciting from concerns which had brancSs and did much business in the 
West. Phe building was started in 1899 and completed for the 
opening January 1st, 1901. The cost was $100,000.00 plus the furnish- 
ings. The Secretarial Staff at the opening consisted of the General 
Secretary, Robert G. Horn, Boys’ Work Secretary, Prank H. Ganton, 

Asste Secretary and A. N. Jewett, Physical Director. 


Prior to 1894 Messrs. C. M. Copeland, W. D. Bayley, R. De 
Richardson and others had secured five islands in the Lake of the 
Woods situated about seven miles north-west from Kenora through the 
Devil's Gap. Their object was to establish the Lake of the Woods 
Institute for Bible Study and general conference work. My first 
visit was in July of 1894 and from that date on camps were promoted 
ané held annually. At first these camps were for both sexes but in 
1911 it was decided to limit the attendance to men am boys only. 

The little steamer "Pastime™ had been purchased and used for transporta- 
tion purposese It was not used, however, after 1908. Practically 
all of the stock held by the Lake of the Woods Institute was in 1907 . 
turned over to the Young Men's Christian Association of Winnipeg. The 
property consisted of five islands containing approximately 27 acres. 


Included in the campaign budget of 1910 $5,000.00 was allotted 
for the purchase of a launch and for camp improvements. A very fine, 
serviceable gasoline launch was built especially for the camp at 4 
cost of $3,000.00 and named "Neaniskos" . With improvements, such 
as pavilion, small cottages in place of tents, and under the direction 
of W. A. Alldritt the popularity of the camp increased. The largest 
island was named "Copeland" after the first General Secretary of the 
Winnipeg Association. The smaller island to the east is called 
"Patton". The island lying to the north of "Copeland" was called 
"Sir George” after the founder of the Association. A beautiful 
{sland to the south of "Copeland" was named "Fleming" after the 
Secretary (atvrone time) of the Brandon Association, and a very little 
island to the north-west of "Copeland", scarcely more than a good 
rock, is called "Ball" after the one time Secretary at Calgary. The 
Camp itself was styled Camp Stephens in honor of the om who occupied 
the position of President for eight years. In 1914/35 boys and /2% 
men visited Camp Stephens. The restricting of this Camp for the use 
of men ami boys only, led to the formation of the Methodist Literary 
and Athletic Association ( M.LeA. ) at the Lake of the Woods and tire 
Presbyterian Athletic and Literary Association Camp ( P.A. & Lf.) at 
Minaki. Under the leadership of Mr. Walter T. Hart the former has 
been a great Successo The latter has hardly had time to develop into 
large proportions. 


From 1915 to 1918 comparatively little use was made of the 
islands except for some boys’ work, but with the close of the war 
steps were taken to not only put the islanis to their full use, but 


v 


=4— 


to hold a Summer School and Institute thus putting the property to 
the pse for which it was intended in the earlier days. The 

great Winnipeg Strike of May and June 1919 made the carrying out 
of this plan impossible. It is hoped, however, that in 1920 the 
fond ambition of those who first bought the property will be 
realized and a school for Bible Study and ‘general Association work 
will be held at this beautiful spot. 


In 1901 a call came from the European Branch of the 
Association in Calcutta. Having long had the desire to serve in 
the Foreign field the invitation was accepted, Shortly before 
Christmas Mrs. Patton ami I journeyed castward, sailing from 
New York on December 27th of that year, reaching Galcutta on 
February 3rd of 1902. I plunged into the new work with all the 
energy allowable in that climate. The Central Building was in 
course of construction, while the "Foreign Branch" was housed in 
rented quarters an Esplanade. We resided at 86 College Street in 
the heart of the native quarter with Mr. J. Campbell White, Mr. B. R. 
Barber, Mro Fe. We. Steinthal and others, In August, owing partly to 
the very damp condition of the building caused by reconstruction, 
I contracted Malarial fever. As soon as conditions permitted we 
made our first visit to Landour in the great Himalaya range of 
mountains. Five weeks restored me completely to health and I was 
glad to get back to the plains. The building at 25 Chowringhwe was 
completed and opened under the Presidency of Sir Andrew Fraser. 
Our living quarters were then moveé to the new building which faced 
on the great Maidan of 1,200 acres, commonly called"the lungs 
of Calcutta”. Mr. Campbell White who had been General Secretary 
for about seven years, retired in the Spring of 1903 and for the 
next year and a half I occupied the position of Acting General 
Secretary. During all of our residence in India Mrs. Patton suffered 
much because of climatic coniitions. After consulting with three 
of the best doctors, it was decided that it would not be possible 
for her to remain in India. We left Calcutta by boat on February 
4th, 1905 joumneying eastward. At the request od Dr. John R. Mott 
we visited all of the City Associations in the farther East. I 
conferred with Boards of Directors and Committees and gave a great 
many addresses. Places visited were Rangoon, Mandalay, Penang, 
Port Sweltenham, Singapore, Hongkong, Shanghai, Peking, Seoul, 
Moji, Nagasaki, Kobe, Kyote, Osaka, Nagoya, Tokio and Yokohoma. 
Opportunity was allowed for several little side trips for sight-seeing 
and pleasure. We landed in Vancouver in May 1905. leaving Mrs. Patton 
in Winnipeg for medical treatmant I proceeded to Ottawa and in June 
assummed the General Secretaryship of that Associafion. One of the 
pressing needs presented was that of a new building. After going 
into the situation it was decided to secure the services of Campaign 
Director, Mr. C. S. Ward. The first whirlwind campaign to be con- 
ducted in Canada was that of March 1906 in Ottawa. The objective 
was $200,000.00 in ten days. Owing to the fact that a financial 
depression was announced just about that time, the task was a % 
difficult one. At the end of the ninth day we were $66,000.00 
short, but the tenth day closed shortly after ten o'clock with the 
full amount pledged. Messrs. Jackson & Rosencrans of New York 
and Mr. J. Albert Ewart were retained as architects. The President 
of the Association, to whom is due great credit, was Mr. Gordon C. 
Edwatds, A suitable lot was secured at the corner of Metcalf Street 


and Laurier Avenue. measuraéng 120 X 77 feet. The building exceeded 


< 


siliin 


the estimates and cost $270,000.00. Strikes delayed the completion 
so that it was not opened until the Summer of 1908. 

; Prior to my Secretaryship in Ottawa a very smaj]} camping 
Place had been secured at Marshall's Bay on the Ottawa River. It 
was small, only accessible through amother man's property, ad joined 
a marshy tract full of mosquitoes and was too much sheltered from 
the winds.» Steps were taken to secure a Suitable camping ground, 
especially for the boys of the Ottawa Association. Finally a 
beautiful, high, pine treed location was secured on Lac da’ Or 
( Golden Lake) a little beyond Renfrew, With the exception of some- 
time during the war period, this camp ground has been used regularly. 


Repeated invitations to return to Winnipeg were refused 
until after the Ottawa Building was an assured success. The call 
then seemed too insistent to withstand and in January 1910, we re- 
turned to Winnipeg. The building which in 1901 was supposed to 
be suitable for at least 25 years had already proven to be too small 
and there was an urgent demand for a larger one. The citizens of 
the North End of the city, partly cut off by the C.P.R. tracks, 
showed that a building in that section of the city would render great 
service. Shortly after arrival, a Building Committee was appointed 
with Mr. J. H. Ashdown as Chairman. A survey of the city by local 
men and International Secretaries was made. A property had already been 
purchased on Vaughan Street a little north of Portage Avenue, measuring 
155 X 120. As a result of the survey another property was purchased 
at the corner of Selkirk Avenue and Powers 66 X 100. For the purpose 
of carrying on a living-out-of-doors camp, property was also secured 
at Middle Church, Again the services of Mr. C. S. Ward were requisi- 
tioned and in November 1910 a Campaign was conducted for $350,000.00. 
This added te the sale of the old property, gave a pledged amount of 
$550,000.00. The campaigners were successful, Mr. Ashdown leading 
off with a conditional $25,000.00. At the close of the campaign a 
further $26,000.00 was raised for the Young Men's Christian Association. 
Messrs. Jackson & Rosencrans and Mr. J.H.G. Russell were retained as 
architects. Owing to the conditions of the ground discovered below 
the surface, it was necessary to put down piles. This extra work, 
together with strikes delayed building operations and instead of the 
building being ready for occupancy in the Summer of 1912, it was not 
7 ore the Spring af 1913. Messrs. Henry Birks & Sons, the 
purchasers of the Portage Avenue property, according to agreement, 
demanded the building for reconstruction. This forced the Association 
onto the street. For office purposes only we were temporarily housed 
in a corner of the new building. This was especially unfortunate 
as the first Dominion Convention of Young Men's Christian Associations 
was held in Winnipeg in November 1912. The gatherings were held in 
the Industrial Bureaue The building was informally epened to the 
public in the Spring of 1913. The cost of the whole building scheme 
Was more than expected, and inability to collect some of the pledges 
left the Association about $100,000.00 in debt. Because of unforeseen 
circumstances and conditions this was further increased by loss on 
operating expenses. The work really did not get started because of 
financial depression. Then the war broke out taking from us large 
numbers of members especially those who had been residents in the 
building. Because of the attifude of some of the Directors and an 
apparent desire to change the Executive head, I tendered my resignation 
which was accepted in September 1915. Being offered the Military 
Y.M.C.A. work for Winnipeg and vicinity it was accepted October lst. 
This was not the first experience with soldiers. Dating back as 
early as 1889 I had had largely to do with work in volunteer camps 


age 


- 


at Le prairie, St. John, Sherbrooke, Farnham ani Rockeliffe, It 
was congenial work and offered large opportunities for service, 
besides it was helping to win the war. In May 1916 I was appointed 
Area Supervisor for M. D. No. 10 which included at that time the 
Province of Saskatchewan. To the soldiers in the Camps ami Barracks, 
on troop trains and wherever groups of enlisted men were to be found, 
service was rendered as far as possible. In the latter part of 
May 1916 a sudden attack of appendicitis sent me to the hospital 
for six weeks, otherwise the Area Supervisorship was continued up 
to June 1918. In addition to the work for the soldiers, a great 
deal of time was spent in raising money for the home ani Overseas 
work. During the Dominion-wide financial campaign of 1918 I was 
iven charge of the work in Saskatchewan. The allotment was 
175,000.00 and the amount secured in cash was $508,709.00. It 
was then decided by the National Council that I should follow up 
the financial work and Mr. J.H. Dawson was appointed Area Supervisor, 
Much of the time during these recent years has been spent on the 
road and away from home. It has been a privilege, however, to assist 
in this great enterprise in which we have been engaged, and it is 
highly gratifying to know from the best type of men that the work of 
the Association has been worth while. 


ww, COZ 
AAG! q ; 


ang 


