: ir. - z, Colville was born in the city of Quebec on Kevenber as gee 
' His father was a British soldier’ who served his Queen and Country for 


twenty~six years. When he was quite young his father's reginént was moved to 8 
Niagara on the Lake - aS se his parents. From there they moved to Jeeie reds 
then to Kingston, then to Montreal and in 1862 his father’s regiment was waned to > Ee 


London, Ontario, where his father received his discha argee 


In 1364 he moved to Toronto with his parents where he “tnd shed his 
adueation in the Poronto Fublie Schools. 


.o, 


In, 1867 he entered the Dry Goods Business in Toronto and was $i that a 2 
business until 1888, when he received a ¢all to become the Assistant near etary 
of the Buffalo New York Young lien's Christian Association. 


my i 2 
: ; "Previous to this he had spent seven years in the west part of Ontario 
dea nd there. Te eT hh ME ae 
ee Dresden. ; mn 
Returning to Toronto in 1864, he bacame actively engaged in church work es 
and taught-in the Central Prison Sunday School under the superintendency of me 
J _ Hamilton Cassells. be 
When lr. MeCullough,the Genersl Secretary of the Toronto Association ‘ay 
heard of the call to the Buffalo New York Y.M.C.A., he strongly urged feto <4 
accept the Assistant Secretaryship of the Toronto Central Association, and with hy 
the esrnest solicitation and endorsatica of other Toronto men, such as, 1.d.Wilkie, My 
_and G, B. Meadows, Ag decided to remain in Toronto and enter Association work ead 
Bi thare, in September 18Gh he 
In December 1888, Mr. T. S. Cole, Travelling Secretsry of the Provincial a 


Committes, asked howe to accept the General Secretaryship of the Peterborough, 

Young Men's Christian Association, which at that time was very much in debt and 

needed much assistance. Mr. McCullough, the Genersl Secret ry at Toronto, would ~ ali 

not ge of jt, but after much negotiation on the part of the Provincial Committee, is 

was Oo the Peterborough Association for a period of two weeks to conserve y 

the results of the Hunter & Crosley Evangelistic Mecting§ held at that time in ‘ ‘i 

Peterborough, when a large number, particul-rly young men, had been lead to és 
_ Christ. Before hfreturned to Toronto. the Peterborough Associ-tion extended-a - -- 
ah very hearty and unanimous call to become General Secretary ware ou aint bts and wae 
entered into the work, May 28rd, 1689. 


On entering the work there ve realized the great. possibility there was F. 

for service and with God's blessine we had great spiritual results from our work, 2 

“although we were in circumscribed quarters having only three rooms Ses to conduct a 

all our Association activities. On the invitation of one of our Board, he visited © 

Stony Lake, twenty-four miles North of Peterborough, which is now known as ‘the, pe oe 

Karwaitha Lakes, and hs suc asted to the President of the Association, Ere Ge ae aoe i 

Rogers, the advantage of having a Sumer School, which he grestly endorsed and = 

_promised his hearty support. After consulting with Mr. Cole, the Provineial ; 

‘ Secretary, it was arranged that we would hold a Summer School or District Confere 

for two weeks on thé@e beautiful Lake#. It was arranged that Mr. Cole should — 

' a be the Dean of the School and conduct. the Bible Study, and other 2ssocistions 
ae : General Secretaries were to lead the youig men present in the Associations his 
_ and Serviced’. Invitations were sent to the different ! Associations and at this 


wees Sunmzer School we had po ae fore oy tyra in the © Bast, to Toronto 4 


=t= Cie 7 $ = 4 


_the West. Lindsay, Port Hope and Picton sending large delegations , of mane It 
was & time of real fellowship and beneficial deestruction. + 


The outstanding features of our work in Peterborough were, fivet - ‘ 
7A velista revival among the young men, and in one year fifty-two accepted Christ 
- and united with the church. Four of these young men volunteered for Foreign 
- Mission work.- One of them went +o ers two to Africa and one to South America, 
Dr. William Smart, @ brother-in-law of E. R. Wood, now of Toronto, but then of 
Peterborouch, was one of our brightest and best men. 


Te last outstanding feature, was the fact that we were able to clear 

off many years indebtedness, and to gain favor with the late Mrs. Nichols, who, 

in her bib bequeated to the Psterborough Yourlg Men's istian is tion, the belie 

sum of $20,000.00. She also made this provision, tha oth tegice Aeee ie: 

would be interested in giving further aid and we rejoice to Ikmow, ae from that 

estate PwPetearbdoroigh, tae Association has already received between 265,000.00 

and $75,000.00 and is still receiving aid from that estate. 

> ef rb b = 
As 3 result of God's favor,amons us, we were compelled to get ta —_n 

~renieas and through the kin co-operation sere Re Yood with the Honorable G80 Z aad 

A. Cox, we secured a suite of rooms over two sores pal on George Street. ‘thek 

the Honorable Mr. Cox was very generous in fitting up and srranging this suite of 

rooms to mest the needs of the Associcstion at that ‘ie and for five years the | 

Association occupied these premises, and then the new building was arected by the , 

Executors of the Nichols Estate. Unfertuncately the | of Peterborough ext, 7 

not os called upon to contribute anything towards the arrangement of equipment 

of this new building. 


; We were able to secure in Peterborough, > Mr. Arthur Jolley, who went 
in to work as Assistant at Familton and afterwards became the first General 
Secretary of the Galt Y.M.C.A., but whose untimely death cut short a very useful 
life for the Association. 


In 169¢ 1, received a'call to the West End Young Men's Ceristian Association 

of Toronto. This was originally a Railway Association and was organized by 
Wmi Gooderham who was the President of the credit valley railroad which has now 
become part of the C. P. R. System. Meetings were held in the waiting room of 
the Parkdale station and Mr. Gooderham very often le@i_these meetings and in 
Kis will left a goodly sum for the extensions of this work. The work grew until 
the Association had to get larger premises and they rented a store on Queen 

ae Strest near the Queen Streét subway. They remained there until the erection 

—~ Of thé new butldine st tis Gornar, of Qusen and. DoF. Moda : eae 


In the sarly instant W. E. Burford, of sacred mamory, particularly, 
' ¢0 railroad non, Mtv. his life in service as Secretary. He was succeeded by 
Alex Weir as Gondral Secratry, and in 1892 I succeeded Mr. Weir. We found on 
-réaghing there that ¢hemewas good work going on amone the @ membership at that time, , 
lef, by such men XY S. J. Moore and J. E. Foreman} but owing to the collapses of haba 
boom, mony men who gave pledges for the building were unable to pay, and, as a 
result, there was an indcbtedness of $53,000.00 upon the building which hampered 
the work for many years. 


In January 1894 a Provincial Convention was held in the West End Building = 
and John H. Elliott who was the General Secretary of Minneapolis, R. O. Morse of 
ve New York, 4. A. Budee of Montreal, and other prominent Association workers from - 
the United States and Canada were prasent. It was an inspiring time for all and. 
2: put heart into the workers of the Association to push forward and reduce the | NSica 
‘(r= debtedness upon. their building. this Vawter a Quark . 


, Through the kindness of the Association I was able to attend the Jubilee 
Convention at London, England, in 1894, and on my return plans were perfected for 
@ Financial Campaign to reduce our indebtedness, which was lead by one of the 
International Secretaries and resulted in our securing the sum of $20,000.00 whic 
was of great help to us at thgt time. A, Ladainn lates pone Mae? Drerneet by 

The outstanding featurss of fete sight years service in the West End 
Association were - The diecovery of men for Association Work, and, who to-day are 
leading our Association activities in United States and Canada, Dm r. John 
Brown of New York, Harry Ballantyne, Percy Lee, Will Cook, Will Tath of Vancouver, 
Will Green of Edmonton, Chas. Robson fprmerly of Regina and Dr. James Barton of 
Toronto. 


In 1900 through the urgent request of the International Committee, I 
accepted the Secretaryship of the Railway Department in Toronto, where I remained 
until 1908 when at the urgent request of the International and National Committees 


i was asked to go and organize the railway work inthe Lake Superiordivision-of—- 


the C. P. Rs at Chapleaun. This was the beginning of the work for railroad men + 
under the auspices of the C.'P. Re ‘The Company erected an equipped building 
costing over $25,000.00 at this divisional point, with the understanding that if 
the Assocition made good there, they would open up their system for Y.M.C.A. 
activities among their employees. God wonderfully and gens Saeed bléesed the 
work there, and at the end of the first year, the three ‘hotels had changed hands 
and one had gone out of business. The church attendance of men was very marked 
and the benefit to the railway company so outstand that the Association got 
the hearty ondorsation from the President down for tite work it had accomplished. 
The President, Mr. G. B. Nicholson, who had been the Chairman from the beginning 
of the work there, and is now M.P. for that district, said at a public meeting, 
that the Associ=tion had practically turnsd the town upside down and it was the 
greatest boon that had ever come to the community. In the railway service, we 
were able to discover men for the work and E. J. 8. Chisholm, now of Schreiber, 
George F. Brodly of Bridgsburg, Allan Bean of Sarnia were induced to sive théir 
life to the Association work among thes mene 


In March 1911 I was asked by the International and National Committee 
to go to St. Thomas for the purpose of reorganizing the work and securing a 
modern building for that railroad city. God continusd to bless the work and 
within five years we were able to secure a site, erect a building, equip same, 
and which is_one of the most up-to-date buildings in Ontario. One of the results. 
of the organizing of St. Thomas was the securing for Association activities, 
Joe McCull now of Toronto, and Jack Lane, Physical Director of the Halifax 
ee M. Cc . Ae ? 


In January 1915 I ascepted a call to the Toronto CentralY.M.C.A. 

as Cashier and Office “ecretary. After a year's service a new position was created 
and I was appointed the first Lobby Secretary at the Central Building, Toronto, 
where I am still in service. 


