Az \ 


[ee ee 


KAMP KANAWANA 


MONTREAL YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION 


BOYS’ CAMP 


Open June 22nd Camp Director, - G. D. BRANDON 
to August 27th Camp Doctor, - - H. H. HART 


| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 


Whale Hunt at Kanawana 
u IN THE FOOTHILLS OF THE LAURENTIANS, FORTY MILES FROM 


MONTREAL, ON THE CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY 
TO ST. AGATHE 


CER FS FS ATT a ERE. AA NST SES OTR SF AMSAT ER | 


Ask for Information from any Montreal Y.M.C.A. 


| ae, 


S101 Se Se 00 Se ead 


~~ 


A WORD TO PARENTS 


AMP KANAWANA, conducted by the Young Men's Christian Association, of 
Montreal, is a healthful, delightful and beneficial place to send your boy. 

The Camp life near to nature, in ‘‘God’s out-of-doors,” induces clean thoughts 
and right living. The object of the Camp is not to pay dividends in money, but in 
the development of character. Hundreds of boys have already been made better 
in ‘‘body, mind and spirit,” because they have responded to the call of the Camp. 

Leadership has always been the most important consideration, only men of 
character, well qualified to work with boys, are selected. Camp is divided into units 
of about eight boys in a tent, in charge of a young man as tent leader. Tent leaders 
are older boys who have proven themselves capable as leaders of younger boys. 

The Secretaries of any of the Branches will be glad to answer your enquiries 
by personal interview or by telephone. 


A WORD TO THE CAMPERS 


T’S great to get away 
from the heat, noise 
and dust of the city, and 
live in a real boys’ camp 
where you may dive, 
swim, canoe, row, fall in 
at the cook house door 
with a hearty appetite, 
go on hikes, play games, 
assist in the entertain- 
ments, gather around the 
Camp Fire, listen to the 
stories while the flames 


shoot into the night ; and 


Off for a “Hike” 


when the moonbeans 
dance on the rippling water, and the familiar note of the bugle sounds ‘‘tattoo,” 
you make your way to the tent with the other members of your happy family, and 
you crawl between your blankets and sleep the livelong night through. Believe 
me, it’s a great life, and we want to have you with us. Be a Kanawanian this year. 


LOCATION Kanawana is five miles from Piedmont Station on the C.P.R. 
————— line to Ste. Agathe. 


Mr. G. D. Brandon, Community Secretary of the Y.M.C. A. 
R P : 4 < : ’ 
LEARERSHL will be Camp Director. He will be assisted by a splendid staff 


of experienced men. 


Mr. H. H. Hart, of McGill, a 4th year medical man, will look after the hy 
of the boys. ’ 
Mr. F. H. Spinney will again be Educational Director. Mr. Spinney has 
attended Camp in this capacity now for five years. 
Mr. Harry Smith will be chef again this year. Harry has spent seventeen 
summers as chef for boys’ camps and he begins his ninth year at Kanawana this 


season. 


EQUIPMENT A latge new ataing hall, Eanes and boats, and wireless 
equipment. We have tents provided with high, dry wooden 


floors, flotilla of boats and canoes, including_a fenced-in pool for teaching non? 
swimmers. Our drinking water is secured from a mountain spring, The 
pavilion takes care of the Campers in wet weather and provides accommodation 
for amateur evenings and entertainments, 


PROGRAM Every day is full of clean, wholesome fun. Baseball, swimming, 
————___ boating, field sports, cross-country runs, hikes, Bible study, camp 
fire stunts and Sunday services all have their place. The instructional program 
includes nature study, athletics, camp craft, first aid, life-saving, swimming, 
public health, basketry, signalling—thirty-two subjects in all. Special 


rowing, 


speakers and illustrated lectures are frequently arranged for. 
WHAT TO Good clothes are not the fashion at Kanawana. A boy’s usual cos- 


BRING 


comfortable in Camp with his toilet articles, two warm blankets, sleeveless, 


tume is running shoes, long khaki trousers and a sleeveless. City 
clothes are put aside until his return to the city. A boy can be 


trousers and running shoes. 


MINIMUM—1 Heavy pr. boots; 1 pr. shoes; 2 pr. socks; 1 pr. long pants (khaki); 1 sleeveless ; 
l dark shirt; 1 pull-over sweater ; 1 bathing suit ; 2 double blankets ; 1 tooth brush and paste ; 
1 towel ; 1 comb and brush ; soap ; Bible ; pyjamas ; underwear. 

MAXIMUM—For long stay : 2 heavy pr. boots ; 1 pr. running shoes ; 3 pr. pants (khaki); 3 sleeve- 
less; 1 sweater coat ; 1 rain coat; Ll running pants; 1 rubber sheet ; 1 strong pillow ; 2 towels ; 
1 flash light; 1 glove for baseball; 
6 blanket safety pins ; camera ; 
musical] instruments ; 1 paddle, 
if you wish to use canoe; extra 
boot laces; 1 jack knife and 
hatchet ; music; costumes and 
straps for hiking ; costumes for 
skit. The Camp library needs * 
more books ; bring a good book 
with you. 


REGISTRATION 


Any 
boy 


over 12 years may attend, 
provided he has the written 
consent of his parents 
and has been medically 


examined by his physician. : 
Membership in the Asso- Council Fire an" 


4 


», wi ets — 

on, which is covered™by a 

ial fee, is necessary. Appli- 
ion should be made imme- 
itely, as we cannot guarantee 
ccommodation after June 15. 


COST The cost will be $8.50 

for first week, and 
$8.00 a week for balance of 
stay. This includes railway 
fare. A deposit of two dollars 
must be made with the appli- 
cations and arrangements are 
made in advance for each boy’s 
expenses. Final instructions as 


to train time, etc., Kanawana 
badge, baggage checks and After-Dinner Concert 

privilege card are then issued. 

Each boy must have his privilege card before transportation to Camp ,.can be 
obtained. 


INFORMATION 


The Boys’ Work Secretaries at the following Branches will be glad to give you information: 


Central Y.M. C.A., Drummond Street, Uptown 6500 

North Brach, 2300 Park Avenue, Rockland 1176 

Railway Y.M.C.A., Sebastopol Street, Victoria 747 
Westmount Branch, 4585 Sherbrooke Street, Westmount 1200 
Maisonneuve Branch, 574 Adam Street, La Salle 3517 

Verdun Branch, 88 Church Avenue, Victoria 3088 

Cote St. Paul Branch, 144 Hadley Street, Victoria 3007 


RULES 


1. No firearms nor air rifles 
are allowed in Camp. 


2. No one will enter the water 
for swimming except in the 
presence of Leaders, and 
only at the regular periods 
designated. 


3. The use of tobacco is ab- 
solutely prohibited. 
When a boy signs an application 
blank le agrees to observe whatever 
regulations are decided upon as best 


—7, to Kanawana for the welfare of all. 


