Kamp ror Boys 


* 


“Yo Triumphy! Yo Triumphy! 
Hoben Sloben Rebecca Leeammour, 
De hoop de hoop de Shalla de Veer, 
De boom de rye de hye de pop, 
Whooneka Heeneka Waac de Waac, 
Hob Dob de Bowl de Bara, 
Con Slob de Hob Dob Rah, 
Kanawana---Rah |” 


CAMP 
OPENS 
CONDUCTED BY Ses 


YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION tee 


oF MONTREAL Ries) 


NN O- 


AuGUST 


THIRTIETH | 


A WORD TO PARENTS 


AMP KANAWANA is the result of the untiring efforts of a number of 
K Montreal men who feel that the experience of Camp life can be made 
one of the greatest factors in a boy’s development. To this end, they 

have been striving for twelve years to provide equipment and activities that 
make for character, health, mental alertness, self-reliance and, last but not least, 
a consideration for others. Whether it be on a hike, sleeping out under the stars, 
portaging on a canoe trip, or in a game of ball, the experiences of rubbing 
shoulders with the other fellow and of pulling together in a common effort, 
develop as nothing else the attributes that you would like to see in your boy. 


TO THE CAMPER 


(Sort of confidential) 


EAR by year boys have been coming and year by year the Camp has 
Y been growing, until now we know that the kind of time you are going 
to have will depend’on you, yes, just you. There will be swimming, 
athletics, hiking, canoeing, woodcraft, basketry and a hundred and one other 
things. You'll be busy the live-long day, so busy that sometimes when dinner 
comes round, you'll feel like eating the bark of the saw-horse, and sometimes so 
tired at night that to twiddle your thumbs will seem like moving a ton of bricks. 
But, when you come just remember the Camp motto, “Each for all and all for 
each.” Keep smiling, then all will have a good time and, 


‘“‘What is more, my son, 


You’ll be a Kanawanian.’ 


KAMP KANAWANA Page three 


LOCATION 


Kamp Kanawana is 45 miles from Montreal on the Canadian Pacific 
Railway to Ste. Agathe. Campers get off at Piedmont and are driven six miles 
into the foothills of the Laurentians to the Camp site on Lake Kanawana. 

The Camp authorities will only arrange for boys to be conducted from 
Moitreal on Wednesday, June 21st, and each Saturday following. Campers 
leave by the 7.30 a.m. (Standard time) train from Place Viger Station. 


EQUIPMENT 


Camp will be divided into Junior and Senior Sections with separate 
activities, only coming together for meals in the large new Dining Pavilion. The 
tents are provided with high and dry wooden floors 

In rainy weather a large lakeside Pavilion takes care of the campers and 
provides accommodation for entertainments. 


A new Hospital building has been erected which assures comfortable quar- 
ters for any slight cases of illness. 


LEADERSHIP 


Lemuel P. Ereaux will be Camp Director. He comes to Camp with 
the experience of eleven summers. ‘‘Lem’’is now a fourth-year Medical Student 
at McGill University and he will also be Camp Doctor, 

“Boys’ Physical Director at 
the staff of the Department of 
University, will be in charge 


Hay Finlay, formerly 
Central Y.M.C.A. and now on 
Physical Education of McGill 
of the Senior Section. 

Edwin M. Crawford, 
at Westmount Y.M.C. A. will 
Section. 


formerly Boys’ Work Secretary 
be in charge of the Junior 


F. H. Spinny will again be Educational Director and 


Basketry Instruction will be in his charge. 

Harry Smith will be Chef. Harry returns to Camp Kanawana for his 
tenth successive year. ‘ 

Johnston W. Abraham returns again as Business Manager. This is his 
ninth year at Camp. 

Assisting the Executive Staff will be a group of University and’ High 
School Students as Tent Leaders. 


Page four 


Activities are many and varied at Kanawana. 
Camping is combined with sport on land and lake, 
evenings spent around the camp fire and wide-awake 
activities on wet days in the shelter of the pavilions. 


AQUATICS 


E. M. Crawford will be in charge of this depart- 
ment. Swimming is only conducted at certain periods 
during the day and is under strict supervision, a patrol 
boat manned by qualified leaders being always at hand. 

A special effort is made to teach all boys to 
swim. A fenced-in pool provides a safe place for 
beginners. 

A.W. Ross, of the Royal Life-Saving Society 
will visit Camp on July 14th and Aug. 18th. Exam- 
inations for the awards of the Society will then be held. 


ATHLETICS 
Hay Finlay will act as supervisor. Instruction 


KAMP KA! 


We will teach yo 


in athletics, as well as such games as Baseball, Volley Ball, Basketball, group and scout 


games, will be given. 


Afternoon Sports. 


HIKING 

Hikes will be taken to 
nearby lakes and these 
parties will live away 
from camp for several 
days at atime. J. Mac- 
Kinnon, H. Corriveau 
and others are planning 
to lead hikes to Mount 
Tremblant and other 
places of interest. 


The Kanawana-Boys’ 
Farm Athletic Meet 
This is an event held 
annually for the last ten 
years. This year it will 
take place July 25th and 
26th. The whole camp 


NAWANA Page five 


will hike to Shawbridge to meet the boys of the Boys’ 
Farm in track and field events and in a baseball game. 

Shawbridge boys are the present holders of the 
Cup which is competed for yearly. They were success- 
ful in winning the J. Earl Birks Trophy for the first 
series of meets. 


WOODCRAFT 


Kanawana is a chartered tribe in the Woodcraft 
League of America. The campers, as Braves, meet in 
the Lodges around the Council Fire. Tribal affairs are 
dealt with and afterwards woodcraft games are played. 
Opportunity is given to the boys to earn Coos (Coups). 


NATURE STUDY 


Speakers on such topics as Bird Life, Trees, 
Rocks and Minerals, Butterfles, will give instruction, 
ur boy to swim. illustrated talks and conduct expeditions during the 

course of the summer. 
Mr. W. T. B. Crombie, Secretary of the Quebec Branch of the Royal Astronomical 
Society is to spend a short time at Kanawana. 


HONOUR AWARDS 

. The Instruction Program 
includes: Athletics, Camp 
Craft, Life-Saving, First Aid, 
Public Health, Signalling— 
thirty-two subjects in all. The 
instruction is given by the 
Staff and Leaders. 

F. H. Spinney will conduct 
the classes in Basketry, which 
has always been very popular. 

Badges and camp emblems 
are awarded to boys who have 
successfully passed tests in 
the above instruction. The 
large‘‘K"’isthe highest award 
and is only given to boys who 
have obtained the required Around the Camp Fire 


Page six KAMP KANAWANA 


number of instruc- 
tionalbadges, have 
passed the Tri- 
angle Test and 
have shown the 
spirit of unselfish 
service and good 
fellowship. 


Camp Paper 


The''Gas Bag,” 
the cfficial Camp 
Paper, is published 
bv the boys and 
deals with all 
phases of camp 
life. 


Morning Dip, 


RELIGIOUS 

A short morning devotional period at the breakfast table, the quiet period 
before lights out led by the tent leader, the Sunday services in the open-air chapel 
and around the fire, and the voluntary groups for Bible Study all add to the 
Kanawana atmosphere. 


WHAT TO BRING 

Good clothes are not the fashion at Kanawana. A boy’s usual costume is: 
running shoes, long khaki trousers and a sleeveless. 

City clothes are put aside until his return to town. A boy can be comfort- 
able in camp with his toilet articles, two warm blankets, sleeveless, trousers and 
running shoes. 


FOR SHORT STAY 
2 double blankets 


1 pair heavy boots 1 sleeveless, 1 dark shirt Toothbrush, paste, soap 

1 ** shoes, 2 pair socks 1 pull-over sweater Towel, comb, brush 

4“ long pants (Khaki) 1 swimming suit Pyjamas, underwear, Bible 
FOR LONG STAY in addition to the above 

1 pair heavy boots 1 pair running pants 6 blanket safety pins 

1 “ running shoes 1 strong pillow 1 hatchet, straps for hiking 

2 “ pants (Khaki) Extra shoe laces Camera 

2 sleeveless, 1 sweatercoat 1 towel, 1 flash lamp Costumes for skits 


{ rain coat, 1 rubber sheet 1 baseball glove, 1jack knife Musical instruments, music 


Calico bag, size 20 x 30 jn., for protection of city clothes, It is advisable to bring a 
paddle if you intend doing much canoeing. Racks are provided for private paddles, 


KAMP KANAWANA Page seven 


BOXES FROM HOME 


The receiving of boxes from home is discouraged. Experience has taught 
that “midnight feeds’ are detrimental to the health of the campers. 


VISITORS 


Are welcome at Kanawana but the staff would be pleased if notice of in- 
tended visits be sent some days in advance. Transportation arrangements may 
be made at the Y.M.C.A. Branches. Limited accommodation for mothers may 
be had at the neighbouring farmhouses. 


REGISTRATION 


Any boy over 12 years of age may attend, provided he has the written 
consent of his parents and has been examined by his physician. Membershi» in 
the Association which is covered by a special fee, if necessary, is prerequisite. 
Application should be made immediately to the ats Work Secretari.s at any 
Y.M.C.A. Branch in the City. 


R. E. G. Davis, Central, 127 Drummond Street, Uptown 6500 

F. O. Stredder, e st sie “ $s 

G. R. Ingleson, Westmount, 4585 Sherbrooke St., Westmoz:nt 1200 
G. Guiton, North 2300 Park Avenue, Rockland 1179 

R. G. Burgoyne, Eastern, 244 St. Catherine West 

J. G. MacKinnon, Cote St. Paul, Victoria 3007 

J.S. Teet, Railroad, Point St. Charles, Victoria 747 


COST 

The cost will be $8.50 for the first week and $8.00 for each succeeding weck. 
This includes railway fare and drive into camp. A deposit of two dollars ($2.00) 
must be made with the application and arrangements made in advance for the 
boy’s expenses, Final instructions to campers, Kanawana Badge, baggage checks 
and Privilege card are then issued. Each boy must have his Privilege card in 
order to obtain transportation to Camp. 


RULES 
(1) Firearms, air rifles and dogs are not allowed in camp. 


(2) Campers will not enter the water for swimming, nor use a boat except 
during the regular periods designated, and in presence of leaders. 


(3) The use of tobacco is prohibited. 


APPLICATION CAMP NO........4.0...: 


KAMP KANAWANA 


* 


Please Enrol my name for Camp this Summer. Enclosed find the sum 


~ 


of $2.00 on account. I agree to obey whatever rules are decided upon and to help 


promote the best welfare of all. 


INSRERR Goes roves ies oases nse s obec thas Vaneez wacdon eesnpoereasaars YANCY SOU ed eGR tes Ree Ee reve oh 
Rather a Heaainess, AGGresas ./Pisisc 0350-5) eastiat ea A aaeong iis cent vadp pe oeaarning (abd etip Owe Slee AF 
School OF Business... jhciiiscsictcscdsseces Expect to arrive in Camp...............0i00.cccscssescssarseoes 8 
Lea Ve Gam pivicssiis.s.acerssecstoneecens What-Church do vou attend! 5.0. ee icccsttdee ees 
EWGG etre recreates VOATS OLS OB ia ciyy sc ceaceer seiecae eo dacdense hip isacdliodast cigar enemuenies 192 

Member of which branch of Y.M.C.A.....0.00000000. 0. 2. Can you swim 25 yards?............ 


Arrangements must be completed in advance for each boy's expenses, and a Privilege 
Card secured. Without this Card a boy cannot obtain transportation to camp, nor accom- 
modation there. 


This application has my approval and consent. I agree to the conditions of your 
printed pamphlet and the regulations of the camp. 


Signed by Parent or Guardian. 


CANOE PERMIT 


After passing the required canoe test I desire my boy be granted the use of 
canoes. 


Signed by Parent or Guardian, 


After examination of applicant I am satisfied that he is in good physical 
condition. 


