FOREWORD 


ee AMPING! How that word ar- 
ouses within a real red-blooded 
@ boy all the prehistoric instincts 
of the great out-of-doors; the 
smell of the woods, the magic of the camp 
fire, the mysterious sounds of the night, 
the mastery of the wave through swim- 
ming, this coupled with directed play, 
seascnable hours of sleep, wholesome 
food, regularity of eating, friendly leader- 
ship, studying nature, attending services 
of worship, discussing life problems, and 
discipline based upon justice make up a 
summer program at Kamp Kanawana, 
which has a tremendous appeal to real 
boys. 


KAMP KANAWANA 


is not a summer hotel. It is a creative 
camp where personality and high ideals 
count for more than its splendid equip- 
ment—the camp spirit of “help the other 
fellow” gets deep into the heart of every 
Kanawana boy and makes him give of his 
best freely. Here boys may live the happy 
outdoor life untrammeled by the de- 
mands of unnatural civilization, absorb- 
ing that high morality and purity of life 
which nature only can teach; where time 
is not loafed away but purposefully 
occupied. 


STAFF 
The Camp will be under the direc- 
tion of Mr. Philip G. Paterson, 4 
B.A., Boys’ Work Secretary, at 
the Westmount Y.M.C.A. He 
will be assisted by a fine group of 
very able leaders. } 


Mr. Howard Ellis, Boys’ Physical 

Director at the Central Y.M.C.A., who has made a 
great name for himself in this capacity, will be 
Director of the Junior Camp. Mr. L. P. Little, 
better known as “Bones,” a Sixth year McGill 
Medical Student and Captain of the 1924 McGill 
Senior Rugby Team, will be Camp Doctor and 
Assistant Chief of the Junior Division. Mr. Allan 
B. Cornell will be Educational Director again this 
summer, This will be his sixth year in Kanawana. 


The Senior Division will be under the direct super- 
vision of Mr. H. K. Ashdown, a student in Theology 
at McGill. He has had considerable experience in 
summer camps near Toronto. Mr. Stan. Reid, 
B.A., Editor of the McGill Daily, will be assistant in 
Senior Camp and responsible for entertainments. 


Mr. Fred. Webb as Comptroller and Mr. Reg. 
Cowan as Business Manager will look after the 
financial end of the Camp. Both of these men are 
attending McGill and are well qualified for the 
work. Reg. Cowan having had eight years’ experi- 
ence in Kanawana. 


ORGANIZATION 


Kanawana is divided into two Divisions: Younger 
boys, 12 to 15, and Older boys, 16 to 18—each with 
its own site. The boys sleep in tents with wood 
floors, high and dry above the ground. Each tent 
has a qualified older boy in charge, who is responsi- 
ble for the eight or ten boys under his care. The 
number depending on the size of the tent. 


FOOD 


Good wholesome meals with fresh milk, vegetables, 
butter, eggs and meat brought in regularly are 
prepared by a staff of expert cooks and served liber- 
ally. Each group of boys with their tent leader dine 
at a separate table in the large dining pavilion. 


EQUIPMENT 


The equipment is most complete. It consists of two 
spacious pavilions, one for dining and one for re- 
creation in wet weather—the latter having a large 
open fireplace. A flotilla of boats and canoes, four 
diving spring-boards, two high and two low. A long 
zinc “chute the chutes” into the lake, an open air 
chapel, where Sunday meetings are held, a large 
Council Ring where woodcraft meetings are held, 
an icehouse which is kept well filled and a well 
equipped hospital building where any sick are taken 
care of. The water supply is obtained from two 
mountain spring wells. 


LOCATION 


Kamp Kanawana is situated among the trees on the 
high sloping shores of Lake Kanawana, which is 
some 45 miles from Montreal in the Laurentian 
Mountains. Campers get off at Piedmont and are 
driven six miles in—to the place where freedom 


reigns. 
HONOUR AWARDS 


Opportunity for learning many 
phases of camp life is efficiently 
presented and included in the vary- 
ing program of the camp. The 
boys are encouraged to participate 
in them all. Silk ribbons are 
awarded to those who pass the 
necessary tests after a week’s train- 
ing. Special awards are made for those who qualify 
for a certain number of ribbons in all of the Depart- 


ments, so that.an all round training will be obtained. 
Instruction is given in 32 subjects in all. 

The following list will give some idea of the 
system used and some of the badges: 


Educational Athletic 
Bible Study Hike 
Nature Study Boxing 
Camp Craft Wrestling 
Bandaging Tumbling 
Cooking Athletics 

Aquatic Service 
Swimming Altruism 
Diving Entertainment 
Life Saving Correspondence 
Rowing Camp Improvement 
Canoeing Editor’s Assistant 

cOoSsT 


Kanawana is not a money 
making proposition. The 
rates are kept just as low as 
possible so that it will be 
within the means of most 
boys to attend. The cost is 
$8.50 per week in advance. 
This includes transporta- 
tion to the extent of one 
return trip between Mont- 
real and the Camp in a 
summer. A boy may go for any period of time. 
Parties are taken up each Saturday morning during 
the summer. 


REGISTRATION 


The mg renee of the Kamp though large is 
limited. Only those whose application are in early 
will be considered in the case of a larger number 
applying than can be comfortably accommodated. 
In any case registrations must be in a week in 


advance of the time of arriving in Kamp along with 
a registration fee of $2.00, which will be allowed on 
first week’s board. 


Registrations will be accepted at any Branch of the 
Young Men’s Christian Associations of Montreal. 
All fees should be paid at the Association where 
registration was made. 


Only those boys who have passed their 12th birth- 
day and who are not over 18 may register. 


3 RULES 


Kanawana is noted for its very limited number or 
rules. There are certain precautions, however, 
which must be taken. They are: 


1. Fire-arms, air rifles and dogs not allowed. 

2. Swimming and boating during regular 
periods only, and in the presence of others. 

3. The use of tobacco in any form is abso- 
lutely prohibited. 

4. Absence from camp only with the per- 
mission of the director. 


VISITORS 


Are welcome at Kanawana and especially parents 
whose boys are in camp. Accommodation is limited 
especially over the week-ends, so that advance 
notice of your visit should be sent in. 


For further information apply to any Branch of the 
Y.M.C.A. in Montreal, where application and final 
instruction sheets may be obtained. 


ge: 


