YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN 
ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 


toth SEASON 


JUNE 25 


fe, 


Camping at Kanawana 


T° THE BOY who has camped at Kanawana these ma- 

gic words conjure up never-to-be-forgotten mem- 
ories — memories of its Council Ring and even- 
ing fires, the smell of the woods, the mysterious 
sounds of the night, the daily activities on land 
and lakes and the close fellowship through daily 
association with sympathetic leaders. How the word 
“Camping” arouses within every red-blooded boy 
the natural and wholesome instinct for a free life 
in the open. 


Kamp Kanawana is a creative camp where time 
is purposefully occupied and where personality 
and high ideals count for even more than its well 
balanced program of directed activities, made pos- 
sible by its splendid equipment. Parents may rest 
assured that all possible care will be taken of their 
boys. 


Directed play, reasonable hours of sleep, whole- 
some food, regularity of eating, friendly leader- 
ship, studying nature, attending services of worship, 
discussing life problems, all have their place in 
Kamp Kanawana. Here, where discipline is based 
upon justice, the spirit of “help the other fellow” 
guides every camper to give of his best freely. 


Location 


AMP KANAWANA is 50 miles from Montreal, in the 

Laurentian Mountains. The Camp property com- 
pletely surrounds two beautiful lakes, Kanawana 
and Wilson, and borders on a third, Lac Beescie. 


Campers travel via C.N.R. from Tunnel Station 
to St. Sauveur des Monts. From this station there 


is a drive of five miles to Camp. Conducted par- 
ties leave each Monday morning for camp during 
the season. 


Equipment. 


HE EQUIPMENT is most complete, including two 

spacious pavilions—one for dining and one for 
recreation in wet weather, the latter having a large 
open fire-place. Senior Section has a Log Cabin 
as a social centre. Our splendid new Library and 
Museum, with open fire-place, books to read and 
a place to write, is a great asset. There is also 
a large flotilla of 36 boats and canoes, four div- 
ing spring boards—two high and two low—a long 
“Shoot the chutes’ into the lake, an open air 
Chapel for Sunday services, a large Council Ring 
where Wood-craft meetings are held, an ice house 
connected with the kitchen, a bakery, and a well 
equipped hospital and doctor’s quarters where any 
sick are well taken care of. A first class Photo- 
graphic dark room is available for instructional 
purposes. The Camp has two Athletic Fields, with 
ample space for games of all knds. Tennis Courts 
are to be built this year. The new cabin on Lac 
Beescie will be used for camping out parties. All 
tents are weather proof, provided with high and 
dry wooden floors. The water supply is obtained 
from two mountain wells. 


Food 


00D wholesome meals with fresh milk, vege- 

tables, butter, eggs, and meat brought in regu- 
larly are prepared by a staff of expert cooks and 
served liberally. 


Swimming and Boating 


Organization 


THE CAMP is divided into three sections: Senior 16 

to 18, Junior 12 to 15, and Juvenile 10 to 12, 
each with its own location and Director. All sec- 
tions unite at meal times and for many major 
activities. At other times, the programme is ar- 
ranged according to the ability and interests of the 
boys in the different sections. 


Each tent has a qualified older boy or young 
man in charge, who is responsible for the six or 
eight boys under his care. 

Camp duties are shared equally by the campers, 
providing a splendid training in citizenship. The 
aim is to make the Camp an ideal community. 


Programme 


ACTIVITIES are many and varied at Kanawana. Each 
is planned. with a view to its character build- 
ing value in the lives of the campers. 


ATHLETICS of all kinds, including baseball, 
basket ball, volley ball, indoor hockey, track meets. 
cross country races, and other activities of an 
athletic nature help to keep the campers on their 
toes, ever ready for a new adventure. 


SWIMMING is conducted at two scheduled per- 
iods daily, and under strict supervision. Special 
classes are provided for beginners and the effort 
is made to teach all boys to swim. Weekly meets 
create incentive for each camper to become a bet- 
ter swimmer. 


BOATING AND CANOEING are very popular 
pastimes. (Canoes are used only by campers who 
have passed the special canoe tests). Weekly re- 
gattas are held to provide friendly competition. 


INTEREST GROUPS are organized weekly un- 
der the direction of the Camp staff, and instruc- 
tion is given in such subjects as:— 


Swimming Boxing Bible Study Photography 
Diving Tumbling Nature Study Bandaging 
Life Saving Athletics Camp Craft Cooking 
Canoeing Basketry Signalling Sketching 


HONOUR RIBBONS and PENNANTS §are 
awarded to the boys who pass certain tests in 


The Camp Hospital 


the above subjects and in recognition of camp du- 
ties well done. These are not looked on as prizes 
but are used in an effort to encourage on the 
part of the boys the satisfaction which comes 
from a sense of achievement of a project com- 
pleted. 


CAMP FIRE PROGRAMMES with rollicking 
songs, stories and surprises, fill the evening hours 
with happy variety. 


EVENING ENTERTAINMENTS such as the 
weekly Saturday night shows, Boxing Exhibitions, 
Mock Trials, etc., add to the fun. 


TWILIGHT LEAGUES provide friendly team 
competition each evening after supper in baseball 
and volley ball, and every boy is expected to 
be on a team. 


RAINY DAYS mean a complete change of acti- 
vities; indoor games, song fests, and readings 
around the roaring fire in snug quarters. 


HIKES have always been popular at Kanawana. 
Short and longer hikes will be arranged to many 
of the beautiful Laurentian lakes within reach of 
Camp. 


CANOE TRIPS, for boys whose parents give 
their consent, have been arranged. Parties leave 
Round Lake near Weir, from whence they paddle 
up to St. Jovite, by way of the Rouge and Devil’s 
rivers, or make the shorter trip to Huberdeau. Spe- 
cial light weight canoes and hikers outfits are 
available. Extra charge per boy $2.50 (to cover 
rail ticket to Weir, express on canoes, etc.). 


THE “GAS BAG” is the official camp paper. It 
is edited by the boys themselves, and deals with 
all phases of camp life. 


A NATURAL RELIGIOUS atmosphere is pro- 
duced in Camp through the short daily chapel after 
breakfast each morning, the evening tent devo- 
tions, voluntary Bible Study, inspirational Camp 
fire talks, and the regular Sunday service in our 
beautiful open air Chapel. Personal interviews 
and the comradeship of Christian leaders help meet 
the needs of the Campers as they become appa- 
rent. 


Flag raising ceremony 


Leadership. 


THE SUCCESS of any camp is determined, to a very 

large degree, by its leadership. Staff mem- 
bers and tent leaders have been carefully chosen, 
and the Camp Committee feels that Kanawana has 
an unusually strong group in charge for 1928. 


The camp will again be under the personal di- 
rection of Harold C. Cross, Executive Secretary of 
Westmount Y.M.C.A., a camper of many years 
experience. 


A. A. Struthers, a student at Springfield Y.M.C.A. 
College, and with previous experience as a Physi- 
cal Director, will be in charge of Senior Section 
this year. 

Ralph J. Smith, B.P.E., who graduates from 
Springfield this year, will again direct Junior Sec- 
tion, and supervise swimming. After camp, Mr. 
Smith goes to North Branch Y.M.C.A. as their 
new Physical Director. 


Fred Hudson, of Pickering College, will again 
be in charge of the Juvenile (Specials) Section, 
which he handled so well last season. 

Ken Norris, McGill ’29, comes back again as 
Business Manager, and we hope will edit the 
“Gas Bag”. 

Karl R. Perry, teacher at Pickering College, and 
for five years on the staff at Camp Ahmek in 
Algonquin Park, will head up a new department 
this season. Mr. Perry will devote his entire atten- 
tion to the encouragement and direction of all kinds. 
of Craftsmanship. He is unusually qualified for this 
type of work, and we feel that Kanawana is very 
fortunate in securing this leader. 

B. Munn, M.D., and H. S. Mitchell, M.D., are 
fully qualified physicians who will care for the 
health of the boys. Each will be Camp Doctor for 
a month. 

William Watson, for the third season, will fill 
the important position of Chef. All campers will 
know this means good “eats’’ at Kanawana. During 
the winter, Mr. Watson was cook at the Diocesan 
College. 

Beau Lewis will assist in the Business Office. 
Jim Cowan will again be in charge of the ever- 
popular Basketry classes. Francis Hudson and Harry 


Off on a Canoe Trip 


Griffiths are other leaders who are already book- 
ed for 1928. 


Special features 1928. 


Improvements to Camp will include the new Canoe 
wharf and racks, new Boat wharf, repairs to road 
through camp, ete. 


New Juvenile (Specials) Camp Site will be ready 
up on hillside between Museum and Senior Camp. 
This will be a wonderful high and dry location, 
looking out over the lake. 


Tennis Courts it is hoped will be ready for this 
season. These will be specially for Senior campers, 
and very popular we feel sure. 


The Museum and Library will be completed, 
fire-place, hardwood floors and all. Last year’s 
campers have donated a splendid collection of new 
books and pictures. Already some interesting spe- 
cimens have been received for the Museum and 
we hope these will be continually added to by 
friends of the camp. 


Canoe Trip Dates will be as follows:— 
July 9—13 
July 30—Aug. 3rd 
Aug. 183—Aug. 17th 
A ten day trip for older boys will be conduct- 
ed if sufficient boys are signed up. 


A Gypsy Hike is planned to take the place of 
the old Otoreke Hike. A waggon will convey our 
outfit, and we will cook and sleep as we trek from 
lake to lake. This should prove a very popular 
event. 

Camp Circus was such a success last year we ex- 
pect to repeat it this season. 

Craftsmanship will be featured under Mr. Per- 
ry’s direction. This will include Wood-craft, Camp- 
craft, and various other forms of Handicraft, and 
will prove fascinating to every ambitious boy. 
Groups and individuals will be encouraged to un- 
dertake various projects, under supervision, and 
to carry them through. 

Archery will be introduced to Kanawana this sea- 
son. This is a pastime which develops skill and 
strength of hand. We expect it to become very 
popular. 


The New Museum 


Rules 


KANAWANA is noted for its very limited num- 
ber of rules. There are certain precautions how- 
ever, which must be taken. They are: 

1. Swimming and boating during regular periods 
only and under supervision. 

2. The use of tobacco in any form is absolutely 
prohibited. 

3. Absence from Camp only with the permis- 
sion of the Director. 


Who may go 


Any boy over 10 years of age may attend, pro- 
vided he has the written consent of his parents and 
has been examined by his physician. Membership 
in the Association is required. (Short term mem- 
bership may be arranged). _ Registrations will be 
accepted at any branch of the Y.M.C.A. in the 
city. All fees must be paid at the Association where 
registration is made. A boy may go to Kanawana for 
two or more weeks. 


Cost 


Kamp Kanawana is not a money making propo- 
sition. We have tried to keep the cost at the low- 
est possible figure. The tharges are $8.50 per 
week, payable in advance. This includes all privi- 
leges in Camp. Rail fare ($2.40 return) is extra. 


Final Instructions 


Final instructions to ‘campers, Kanawana badge, 
baggage checks, and Privilege Card are issued af- 
ter application is signed and a deposit of $2.00 on 
account is made. 


Visitors 


Kamp Kanawana welcomes visitors and especially 
parents whose boys are in camp. Accommodation 
is: limited however, and advance notice of your 
visit should be sent to Camp so that transporta- 
tion etc., may be arranged. A few ladies can be ac- 
commodated overnight at a nearby farm house. 


