Mr. Beaton 


REPORT ON CAMP DORVAL 


SEASON 1928. 


Camp Dorval was again operated jointly by the Verdun and St. 
Paul Branches, the task of Directorship and the cost of operating being 
shared equally by the two. 


The large house which was used in 1925 and 1926 was again 
found to be available, and a lease with the Marcil Trust Company was 
entered upon, whereby we had the use of the house from May until. November 
for the sum of Seventy-five dollars. 


The total cost of operating amounted to about $500.00, which 
includes the purchase of dishes and cutlery and two row boats, our boats 
and canoes of last year having been destroyed or stolen. Included in 
the $300. expenses were the back taxes on the house we used last year, 
which we were committed to pay through an arrangement with the owner 
of the house. This amounted to about Seventy-five dollars. 


There is no revenue from the Camp. Boys are charged at the 
rate of 20¢ a meal and 10¢ overhead each week-end. The overhead and the 
balance from the meals just about pay for the wood and the lighting. 


The total attendance this year was smaller than it was last, 
owing chiefly to the fact that the Secretaries of both Verdun and St. 
Paul were on their holidays at the same time, and the Camp was then 
closed except to very small parties of older responsible boys. On 
one occasion during July a party of 17 boys from North Branch used 
the Camp. 


The following figures sum up the attendance at the Camp:- 


Number of week-ends operated. . . « «+ « 
Number of Individual Campers. .... ~» 

Total number week-ends spent in camp. . . 214 
Number of full weeks Camp was opened. -. 2 


The Program consisted of running, jumping, football,softball, 
swimming, boating,hiking, checkers,camp fires,and reading,while some boys 
preferred just to rest. Football, softball and such competitive games 
were not indulged in on Sundays,while a devotional service was held just 
following dinner. 


On one occasion,through the kindness of Mr.Dent Harrison,all 
the boys were taken for a spin over Lake St.louis in the Harrison Motor 
Launch. 

The near-the-City Camp idea has proven itself,as far as the 
District South of the Canal is concerned,and it is strongly recommended 
that the Camp be continued in future years,if at all possible. 


