“Have you smelled wood-smoke at twilight? 
Have you heard the birch log burning ? 
Are you quick to read the noises of the night ? 
You must follow with the others, for the 
oung men’s feet are turning 
To the camps of proved desire and known delight." 
KIPLING, 


KANAWANA 


Operated by the 
YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN 
| ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 


20th SEASON 


JUNE 24 


TO 


~* 


$y 
yy fs 
: % %< 


\. 


in 


Pp 


coe ee 


KANAWANA 


JUNE 24th — SEPTEMBER 2nd | 


Fl @ 


iirc aeawe. Fit nto 


ed io Pe. 


“Get out of doors, ’tis there you'll find 

The greater things of heart and mind.” 

fifty miles from Montreal on the C.N.R. The Camp 
property completely surrounds two large beautiful 
mountain lakes, Kanawana and Wilson, and bor- 
ders on a third, Lac Becsie. 


Conducted parties of Campers leave the Tunnel 


Camping at Kanawana 


Our in the warmth of the sunshine, the clear air 

of the age-old Laurentians, the smell of the 
woods and with nature for a companion, a boy 
will discover the above quotation to be true. Living 
in the forest, canoeing, swimming, and hiking 
bring brightness to the eye, color to the cheek and 
stuff to stiffen the backbone. To face the life and 
adventure of! the open, to learn the joy of doing 
things, sharing in the work and play of his fellow 
campers, is surely part of the natural heritage of 
any Canadian boy. 

Particularly when a boy lives in the city with all 
its dust, bustle, and noise, its artificial life and 
luxuries, will he appreciate a camp where he can 
delight in beautiful surroundings of wild simpli- 
city, where he can eat generous quantities of plain 
wholesome food that will help build a sturdy body. 

That is Kanawana, the mecca for many boys of 
Montreal and district during the months of July 
and August. The great number of boys who come 
year after year is the test of its popularity and an 
appreciation of its value to boy-life. Besides learn- 
ing to adjust himself socially a boy is encouraged 
to develop his own particular personality and 
pecular talents. In spite of the multiplicity of or- 
ganized activities of the camp program there is 
ample time given ‘for a boy to follow his own par- 
ticular interest or hobby. 

At Kanawana there is directed play, regularity 
in eating and sleeping, wholesome food, friendly, 
capable leadership, services of worship, and life 
problem discussions. At Kanawana we seek to have 
boys develop their personalities and acquire out- 
door skills. 


Location 


K ANAWANA is located in the heart of the Lau- 
rentians, five miles from St. Sauveur des Monts, 


Station every Monday morning and are conveyed 
from St. Sauveur to the camp. Those who wish to 
go by auto may get directions at any Y.M.C.A. 


Equipment 


THE equipment is most complete, including two 

spacious pavilions—one for dining and one for 
recreation in wet weather, the latter having a large 
open fire-place. Senior Section has a Log Cabin 
as a social centre. Our splendid new Library and 
Museum, with open fire-place, books to read and 
a place to write, is a great asset. There is also a 
large flotilla of 42 boats and canoes, four diving 
spring boards—two high and two low—a long 
“Shoot the chutes’ into the lake, an open air 
Chapel for Sunday services, a large Council Ring 
where Wood-craft meetings are held, an ice house 
connected with the kitchen, a bakery, and a well 
equipped hospital and doctor’s quarters where any 
sick are well taken care of. A first class Photo- 
graphic dark room is available for instructional 
purposes. The Camp has two Athletic Fields, with 
ample space for games of all kinds. All tents are 
weather proof, provided with high and dry wooden 
floors. The water supply is obtained from two 
mountain wells. 


Food 


GoD wholesome meals with fresh milk, vege- 
tables, butter, eggs, and meat brought in regu- 
larly are prepared by a staff of expert cooks and 
served liberally. 


Swimming and Boating 


Organization 


‘T HE Camp is divided into three sectoins: Senior 

15 to 18, Junior 12 to 14 and Juvenile 10 to 12, 
each with its own location and Director. All sec- 
tions unite at meal times and for many major 
activities. At other times, the programme is ar- 
ranged according to the ability and interests of the 
boys in the different sections. 


Each tent has a qualified older boy or young 
man in charge, who is responsible for the six or 
eight boys under his care. 


Camp duties are shared equally by the campers, 
providing a splendid training in citizenship. The 
aim is to make the Camp an ideal communty. 


Programme 


A CTIVITIES are many and varied at Kanawana. 
Each is planned with a view to its character 
building value in the lives of the campers. 


ATHLETICS of all kinds, including baseball, 
basket ball, volley ball, indoor hockey, track meets, 
cross country races, and other activities of an 
athletic nature help to keep the campers on their 
toes, ever ready for a new adventure. 


SWIMMING is conducted at two scheduled per- 
iods daily, and under strict supervision. Special 
classes are provided for beginners and the effort 
is made to teach all boys to swim. Weekly meets 
create incentive for each camper to become a bet- 
ter swimmer. 


BOATING AND CANOEING are very popular 
pastimes. (Canoes are used only by campers who 
have passed the special canoe tests.) Weekly regat- 
tas are held to provide friendly competition. 


INTEREST GROUPS are organized weekly un- 
der the direction of the Camp staff, and instruction 
is given in such subjects as:— 


Swimming Boxing Bible Study Photography 
“Diving Tumbling Nature Study Bandaging 
Life Saving Athletics Camp Craft Cooking 
Canoeing Basketry Signalling Sketching 
Fencing Archery Model Aircraft 


HONOUR RIBBONS and PENNANTS are 
awarded to the boys who pass certain tests in 


The Camp Hospital 


the above subjects and in recognition of camp du- 
ties well done. These are not looked on as prizes 
but are used in an effort to encourage on the part 
of the boys the satisfaction which comes from a 
sense of achievement of a project completed. 


CAMP FIRE PROGRAMMES with rollicking 
songs, stories and surprises, fill the evening hours 
with happy variety. 


EVENING ENTERTAINMENTS such as the 
weekly Saturday night shows, Boxing Exhibitions, 
Mock Trials, ete., add to the fun. 


TWILIGHT LEAGUES provide friendly team 
-competition each evening after supper in baseball 
and volley ball, and every boy is expected to be 
on a team. 


RAINY DAYS mean a complete change of acti- 
vities; indoor games, song fests, and readings 
around the roaring fire in snug quarters. 


HIKES have always been popular at Kanawana. 
Short and longer hikes will be arranged to many 
bs the beautiful Laurentian lakes within reach of 

amp. 


CANOE TRIPS, for boys whose parents give 
their consent, have been arranged. Parties leave 
Round Lake near Weir, from whence they paddle 
up to St. Jovite, by way of the Rouge and Devil’s 
rivers, or make the shorter trip to Huberdeau. Spe- 
cial light weight canoes and hikers outfits are avail- 
able. Extra charge per boy $2.50 (to cover rail 
ticket to Weir, express on canoes, etc.) 


THE “GAS BAG” is the official camp paper. It 
is edited by the boys themselves, and deals with 
all phases of camp life. 


A NATURAL RELIGIOUS atmosphere is pro- 
duced in Camp through the short daily chapel after 
breakfast each morning, the evening tent devo- 
tions, voluntary Bible Study, inspirational Camp 
fire talks, and the regular Sunday service in our 
beautiful open air Chapel. Personal interviews and 
the comradeship of Christian leaders help meet 
the needs of the Campers as they become apparent. 


Pioneer-Builders 


Camp Staff 


The Chief Director for this year will be George 
Porteous, B.A., Boy’s Work Secretary of North 
Branch Y.M.C.A., who has had experience in all 
phases of organized camp life. 

The Business Manager will be Reg. Cowan, B.A., 
of the St. Andrew’s College, Aurora, Ont. Mr. 
Cowan filled this position for several years and 
his return to our staff is greeted with great inter- 
est. His assistant will be Sinclair McIntosh. 


H. C. Brennan, Director of Physical Education 
of the Outremont Schools, a popular leader of 
boys and a resourceful athletic director, will have 
charge of the Senior section. 

Fred Hudson, who last year piloted a record 
Juvenile Camp will guide the destinies of the Juni- 
or section. Fred needs no introduction to Kanawani- 
ans having spent many consecutive years in the 
Laurentians as camper, leader and director. 

A. W. (Wally) Kemball, an experienced Y.M.C.A. 
Secretary and camp organizer, now enrolled at 
McGill, will act as foster-father to all the young 
hopefuls in the Juvenile (10-11) section. Just to 
meet ‘‘Wally” will be enough to inspire confidence 
in both parents and boys. 


As usual there will be a fully qualified physician 
in camp to care for the health of the boys. Instruc- 
tion is also given in first aid, care of the sick, etc. 


William Watson for his fourth season will fill 
the important position as Chef. As usual this means 
“good eats” and lots of them as last year’s gang 
will testify. 

Jim Cowan will be with us again to instruct in 
basketry. Harry Griffiths will teach the non-swim- 
mers in his easy kindly style that has made him 
popular with many boys, large and small. Scott 
Kneeland will have charge of the workshop, Verne 
Estano of the Museum and Charlie Payton will 
help teach in the Model Airplane classes. 

Henri Denis and Douglas Scott will be back to 
take tents in the Junior section. John Large, Jim 
Brophy, Bob Brophy, Osborne Rutherford, Fred 
Chase, Alan Barnes, Norman Thom, Edward Bay- 
lis, Bob Goodier, and Tom Baird are also among 
the leaders for this year. All of these young men 
are tried campers and have the finest of qualifi- 
cations and recommendations for their work. 


Off on a Canoe Trip 


Special Features for 1929 


AMONG the several improvements made to the 

camp of special interest are the Canoe House 
and the Workshop. Another feature is the Exten- 
sion Camp to be built on Lae Beesie during the 
“overflow” period of July and August. Kanawana 
proper will be limited to 180 campers as we feel 
this is quite large enough to give the maximum 
service. 


The Tennis Courts are in excellent shape and 
will be largely featured this year. As well as Tour- 
naments there will be instruction for beginners. Be 
sure to bring the family racquet. 


The Museum and Library with the fireplace and 
hardwood floors will be a popuar rendezvous this 
year. Verne Estano of Hobby Show fame will add 
to the collections and direct the work of boys in- 
terested in nature study. He will organize a camp 
“Wantonoit” Club. Bring your butterfly net and 
magnifying glass. 


The Workshop will be a source of never-ending 
activities. Scott Kneeland will be workshop coun- 
sellor and guide boys in making articles for camp 
and home use. Among others, Charlie Payton, Mont- 
real’s leading model aircraft builder and flyer will 
direct interest in this work. Kits of all kinds will 
be available at Camp, through arrangements made 
with the Supply Depot of the Model Aircraft 
League. 


Archery will again be featured, Mr. Brennan 
taking the lead in this. This popular sport, intro- 
duced last year, is a great game for developing 
skill and strength of limb and keenness of judg- 
ment. 


A “covered wagon” gypsy hike is planned if a 
sufficient number of boys desire it. 


The “Circus” will bring out the originality and 
ingenuity of the campers. Bring along ideas and 
costumes. Also bring your musical instruments (not 
including your piano) because John Large will 
form a camp orchestra for those who desire it. 


Photography. The Camp Director himself is a 
camera bug so the dark room will be specially fea- 
tured. Bring along your camera and let’s develop 
together. 


The New Museum 


Rules 


KANAWANA is noted for its very limited num- 
ber of rules. There are certain precautions how- 
ever, which must be taken. They are: 

1. Swimming and boating during regular periods 
only and under supervision. 

2. The use of tobacco in any form is absolutely 
prohibited. 

8. Absence from Camp only with the permis- 
sion of the Director. 


Who may go 


Any boy over 10 years of age may attend, pro- 
vided he has the written consent of his parents and 
has been examined by his physician. Membership 
in the Association is required. (Short term mem- 
bership may be arranged). 


Registration 


Registrations will be accepted at any branch of 
the Y.M.C.A. in the city. All fees must be paid at 
the Association where registration is made. A boy 
may go to Kanawana for two or more weeks. 


Cost 


Kamp Kanawana is not a money making proposi- 
tion. We have tried to keep the cost at the lowest 
possible figure. The charges are $8.50 per week, 
payable in advance. This includes all privileges in 
Camp. Rail fare ($2.40 return) is extra. 


Final Instructions 


Final instructions to campers, Kanawana badge, 
baggage checks, and Privilege Card are issued af- 
ter application is signed and a deposit of $2.00 on 
-account is made. 


Visitors 


Kay, 1p Kanawana welcomes visitors and especial- 
ly pare: ts whose boys are in camp. Accommodation 
is limite, ' however, and advance notice of your 
visit shouk, be sent to Camp so that transportation 
ete., may Ih? arranged. A few ladies can be ac- 
commodated ,Vernight at a nearby farm house. 


CAMP post OFFICE, KANAWANA, P. Q. 


-— 


