SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS COLLEGE 
of the Montreal Y.M.C.A. 


SCHOOL OF ART 
(Co-educational) 


Supplementary Announcemount 


Winter Term, Commencing January 4, 1932. 


1441 Drummond Street - Montreal - Marquette 8331. 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS COLLEGE 


SCHOOL OF ART 


OFFICERS OF ADMINISTIATION 


Fe Oe Stredder, MeAey Ph. De 
Principal 


Ke Se Norris, MeA- 
Registrar and Bursar 


De Ae Je Pavitt, 
Director, School of Art. 


TAFF OF IiuSTRUCTION 


De. A. Jp Pavitt, - Drawing, Colour, Etching. 
O. S. heeler, B.Ae, - Modelling and Sculpture. 
Jas. lcCorkindale, - Commercial Ari. 
Je Le Haner, - Commercial Art. 


and special lecturers. 


We Sellers — Sccretary, Marquette 8331. 


—3e 


Purpose of the School of Art 


The purpose of the School of Art is twofold: 


First:- The development of talent and appreciation in the various 
media of the Fine Arts, including drawing and sketching, 
pastel, water-colours, oils, etching, modelling and 
sculpture. 


Second: The discovery and training of artistic talent in the field 
of Applied and Commercial Art in all its branches: 


Many individuals desire to study Art, to develop skill and appreciation, 
as a means of creative self-expression. This occupation of part of one's 
leisure hours in artistic study not only provides great personal satisfaction 
and pleasure, but also contributes in no small measure to a cultural educ- 
ation. Through the means of charcoal, crayon, pastel, water-colour, oils 
or clay, the student learns to create - not merely to copy, and to experience 
thereby a feeling of personal achievement. This sense of having achieved 
is one of the sreat experiences of life and contributes in a large measure 
to happy, abundant living. There arc many people who cherish a secret 
desire to express themselves through art but who hositate to make a beginning. 
Dr. Banting, co-discoverer of Insulin, and the Rt. Hon. Winston Churchill are 
examples of men who have discovered the inner satisfaction to be gained by 
the pursuit of art as a recreation. 


Others feel thet Applied and Commerciel Art offers unequalled opportun- 
ities for « successful professional career. For these the School of Art 
must sorve two functions. It first provides students with an opportunity 
of discovering whether or not they have sufficient talent and ability to 
wearrent the time and expense of professional training. And then, having 
assured itsclf of this fact, it makes available for its students the wide 
and varied instruction in ell the branches of Art so necessary to the 
Commercicl Artist. This treining must include not only the fine arts, 
and the fundamental techniques of drawing and colour, but elso specialized 
instruction in design, advertising lay-out, feshion and figure drawing, 
lettering, poster design, magazine and press illustration, etc. 


Opportunities in Commercial Art 


To-day, more than ever before, Commercial Art offers attractive oppor- 
tunities for a successful acrcer. The tremendous growth of advertising 
in the past few ycars, and the increasingly important place of the artist 
in this growing profession, opcns up a vast range of possibilities for those 
whose talent and interest lie in this direction. 


Advertising is now ranked «s one of the ten largest business enterprises 
on the North American continent, spending, according to latest statistics, 
more than two billion dollars per yeer. When one considers the great 
quantity of advertising materiel which is thus produced cach day, and the 
large proportion of its preparation which is dependent upon the ertist, the 
importance of Advertising ond Commercial Art as a vocation is readily under- 
stood. Magazines, newspnpers, posters, catalogues, booklets, folders, -- 


all demand that the skilled artist provide in picture the fundamental appeal 
which is the heart of the advertisement. One has only to glance through 
the pages of some popular magazine, such as the Saturday Evening Post, to 
appreciate the truth of this statement. 


Points for Consideration 


In choosing the School of Art of the Sir George Williams College, 
students may have complete assurance on the following very important points:- 


le The School of Art is one of the six Schools conducted by an educational 
institution which last year had enrolled 1235 individual students 
in its various courses. The educational reputation of the Sir George 
Williams College, established throughout the past 58 years, insures 
that a high standard be maintained in each of its Schools. 


2s All instructors have had excellent professional training, and are them- 
selves successful practising artists. Their instruction is based 
upon a first-hand knowleage of modern practices in fine and commercial 
arta 


5. Courses and curricula of study are arrenged to give to each student of 
Commercial Art a broad and thorough training in the Fine Arts as well, 
with liberal choice and ample opportunity for specialization after 
the fundamental techniques have been mastered. Courses are practical, 
there is no wasted time, and emphasis is always placed upon creative 
work. 


4. Classes cre limited in size, to insure the maximum of individual attention 


for each student. This is made possible by the fact that the School 
has three art studios, each equipped for some specific branch of art 
instruction. 


Steff o€ Instruction 


The School is under the direction of Mr. D.A.J. Pavitt, who secured his 
professional training ct the Slade School of Art, the Charing Cross School of 
Art, and South Kensington Museun, London, England. 


The instructor of modelling and Sculpturo is Mr. Orson S. Wheeler, B.A. 
(Bishop's College), who received his professional training under the Royal 
Canadian Academy, Cooper Union, Beaux Arts Institute of Design, and the 
Netional Academy of Design, New York. 


Mr. James McCorkindsle, instructor of Commercial Art, is a graduate of 
the Glasgow Art School, and during his professionel study wes a scholarship- 
winning student undcr Maurice Griffin Hagen. In Montreal he has coached and 
trained several prominent commercial artists now conducting their own studios, 
including Felix Shea, Lerry Porter, end Russcll Patterson now in New York. 
Mr. MceCorkindnle hes done decorative art work for the C.P.Re at Lucerne in 
Quebec, the Halifax Theatre, Loew's Theatre in Montreal, and now operates his 
own commercial art studio in this city. 


Mr. J-L. Hamer is also o trained commercial artist who has had several 
yeers* experience in art instruction in Montrenl. He specializes in pen and 
ink work, fashion drawing end black and white wash. 


es BS 
Curricula of Courses 
Fine Arts — 


Students who are interested in the Fine Arts only, as a means of 
creative expression and cultural education, may choose one or more of the 
following Courses of Study: 


Fl.— Drawing ~ Charcoal, pencil, crayon, sanguine chalk. 

F2-- Colour - Water colour, pastel, oils. 

FS.- Life portraiture - figure drawing, quick sketching. 

F4.- Sketching - Outdoor work during spring, summer and autumn. 
F5.- Etching and woodcutting. 

F6.- Modelling and Sculpture. 


These Courses of Study are described in more detail on page six. 


Commercial Art ~ 


Students of Commercial Art will receive a comprehensive training in the 
following wide variety of Courses of Study, (with Specialization permitted ° 
for advanced students): 

Cl.- Drawing ~ principles and technique in pencil, charcoal, crayon. 

C2.- Colour ~ principles and technique in water colour, pastel, oils. 


CS.- Pen and Ink - for fashion drawing, catalogue and magazine illus- 
tration, ctc. 


C4.— Black and White Wash - technique and application, opaque, trans- 
parent, etc. 


C5.- Lettering - design, technique, historic and modern uses. 

Cé.- Still life - drawing and colour, for merchandise illustration. 

C?-- Life Portraiture - figure drawing, fashions, quick sketching. 

C8.— Composition - for original work in design. 

CO.- Advertising design and lay-out - principles and practice. 

C10- Fashion Drawing - men's and women's clothing, merchandise, ctc. 

Cll- Illustration - Fiction end press illustration, in megazine, 
newspéper and book. 

Cl2- Poster Design - clementary and advanced. 

Cl13- History and Survey of Art. 


C14- Special Classes = for advanced students wishing further special- 
ization. 


These Courses of Study are described in more detail on pages six and seven. 


- 6 -~ 
Subjects of Study 


The specific Courses of Study listed above are herein outlined in 
somewhat ,reater detail. As stated above, students in Fine Art select one 
or more specific Courses, while students of Commercial Art follow a compre- 
hensive curriculum. 


Fl.- Drawing - Elementary and advanced. Charcoal, sanguine chalk and 
crayon, Measurements, actual and comparative; perspective and proportion; 
tones; portraits, draperies, landscape proportions, tree anatomy, cloud 
forms, etce 

F2.—- Colour - Elementary and advanced. Water colour, pastel and oils. 


Still life ond nature. Elementary portraiture. 


FS.- Life Portraiture - A class in portraiture, etc. for advanced students. 
Drawing ena colour. Anetomy, caricature and draperies. Cuick sketching. 


F4.- Sketching - During spring, summer and fall, outdoor sketching groups 
are formed. Hours and fces upon cpplicection. 


F5.— Etching and Voodcutting - A comprehensive course outlining the 
technique of ctching. Instruction in cutting and pressing of zinc 
end copper pletes. For those interested, instruction in woodcuts and | 
woodcutting. 
F6.- Modclling and Sculpture - A course in clay modelling, teaching the 
mechanics ond art of modelling and sculpture. The course will begin 
with the building of armatures and putting up clay, followed by modelling 
from casts of antique sculpture, natural objects, and portrait busts from 
life. Design ond composition in clay will be taught, and carving from 
plaster of paris. Instruction will be given in plaster casting for those 
studcnts wishing to cast their own work. 


Cle- Drawing - Regardlcss of the medium . Commercial Artist my usc, 

the originel sketch and lay-out are usually meade in pencil, ereyon or 
charcoal. Students must learn to draw as the first step in their Art 
educe.tion. This is, therefore, a course in the analysis end con- 
struction of fom, including the study of persyective, proportion and 
shading with their ettendant technical probloms. Effort is made to 
stimalate obscrvetion, judicious selection of essenticls, and appreciation 
of the artistic possibilities of « variety of objects. 


C£.—- Colour - Instruction in the principles of colour harmony end 
design, cnd in the technique of artistic expression through the use of 
water colour, pastel and oils. The advertising velue of colour will be 
dealt with in dctail. 


CS.— Pon end Ink - The ability to work with pen and ink is invaluable 
in catalogue and fashion drawing, newspaper, book and magazine fiction 
illustrating, cartooning, etc. Instruction is given in these various 


pheses of pen and ink technique. Some instruction in Etching also. 


C4.— Black and White Wash - There is no more cffective advertising form 
‘than the black and white wash drawing. Instruction is given in the use 
of opaque and transparent wash, with special emphasis on the possibilitics 
of advertising design in black and white. 


C5.- Lettering - The student specializing in lettering acquires in a very 
short time & skill which will prove commercially profitable immediately. 
But every commercinl ertist, whether he intends to specialize in letter- 
ing or not, should acquire some skill and appreciation in this sub ject. 
In this class the student learns the historic and modern alphabets, and 
Studics their uses ond variations in artistic design. 


C6.— Still Life - The employment of still life objects, in drawing 
and colour, not only provides valuable practice in the teckniquesof 
the various artistic media, but is also a direct training in merchand-— 


ise illustration and poster work. 


C7.— Life Portraiture - A life class for advanced students. Drawing 
and colour. Anatomy, caricature, and draperies. Figure drawing for 
fashions. Cuick sketching. 


C8.- Composition - Original studies in drawing, colour and design, 
in order to stimulate the student's inventive faculties, and enable 
him to develo» ana express his ideas in harmony with what he has 
learned in all his other courses. 


9.- Advertising Design and Lay-out - This course involves a study 

of the principles of advertising and typography, and of the relation 
of the drawing and design to the advertisement as a whole. The study 
of effective advertising appeals includes the psychology of suggestion, 
attention, imaginetion and the instinctive treits of human nature. 
The choice, disposal and balance of type, illustration, white space, 
border, etc-., constitute the technique of Advcrtising Lay-out. The 
development of the original idea into an effective and attention- 
arresting design which tells the advertising story in picture es well 
as in words,— this is the skill to be acquired in this course. 
Methods of reproduction of various types of Commerciet Art will also 
be dealt with. Booklet and folder construction will clso be studied. 


C10.- Fashion Drawing - Instruction in catalogue and merchandise 
illustretion, particularly dealing with men's, women's and children's 
fashions. This is a most valuable branch of commercial art, and one 
in which many students specialize. 


Cll.- Illustration - The illustration of articles and stories in 
magazines, newspapers and books forms en important field of special- 
ization for the Commercial Artist. Instruction and practice in 
this ficld are provided for advanced students. Cartoon, caricature, 
and cover design are elso studied in this connection. 


ClzZ.- Poster Design —- Instruction in this branch of Commercial Art 
renges from the design of ordinery show cards to advanced work 
including the bill-board, street car card, public signs, booklet and 
folder construction, ctc., with methods of reproduction of the artist's 
work. Even in its elementary stages, poster work provides the 
student with a skill from which he may draw financiel return immediatee- 
ly. 

C13.- History and Survey of Art - It is essential that all students 
know Somcthing of the history, progress and present stendards of Art, 
in order that they may analyze their own performance, appreciete art 
values, snd stimulate their own creative powers. <A thorough survey 

of present practices is thus allied with « study of pre-Classical, 
Classical, Medieval, and Renaissance Art. 


C14.- Special Classes - Advencec students wishing to specialize in 
Some other specific phase of Commercial Art may arrange to do so. 
There are several particularly inviting fields of specialization in 
addition to those provided for above. 


- Bm 


Studio Hours 


Fine Arts, Studio A - 


Mornings - Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday, 10.00 to 12.00 
Afternoons - Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday, 10.00 to 12.00 
Evenings - Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, 7.30 to 9.30 


Saturday Classes - 10.0C to 12.00 a.m; 2-50 to 4.30 p.m 


Fine Arts (Modelling and Sculpture), Studio B - 


Mornings - Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday, 10.00 to 12.00 
Evenings - Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday, 7.30 to 9.30 
Saturday Class - 10.00 to 12.00 aem. 


Commercial Art, Studio C - 


Mornings - Monday to Friday inclusive, 10.00 to 12,00. 
Afternoons . - Monday to Friday inclusive, 2.30 to 4.30. 
Evenings - Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday, 7-350 to 9.30. 
Saturday Class - 10.00 to 12.00 aem. 


Course Hours for Students 


The curricula in Fine and Commercial Art are arranged so that students 
who have their deys free for study may spend almost their full time in the 
studios, while students who are employed by day may pursue their art education 
by means of evening study. 


Students of Fine Art may thus enroll for either: 


or 
or 
or 
or 
or 
or 
or 


roe m,oead0” 


four full days per week, 

four half-days per week, 

two half-days per week, 

four evenings per week, 

two evenings per week, 

one evening per week (etching only), 
Saturday morning only, 

Seturday efternoon only. 


Students of Commercial Art may enroll for either: 


(a) five full deys per week, 
or (b) five half-days per week, 
or (c) two helf-days per week, 
or (d) four evenings per week, 
or {e) two evenings yer week, 
or {f) one evening per week (special course only) 


Sl gs 
Enroliment 


Registration may be made in the School of Art at any time.- As all 
instruction is individual, the sooner the student commences study, the 
sooner he or she will expericnee the satisfaction of successful work. 


Those interested in commencing the study of Art should call personally 
at the College Office, visit the studios, and interview the Secretary of 
the School of Art (Mr. Scllers) regarding suitable courses, class hours, 
tuition fees, ctc. The College Offices cre open continuously from 9.00 a.m. 
to 10.00 poem daily, except Saturday when they close at one. In order to 
avoid deley, it is porhaps edviseble to telephone asking for a definite 
appointment et a convenicnt hour, day or cvening. Employed people may 
find it particularly convenicnt to visit the office and studios at noon 
hour, or in the eftcrnoon immediately efter leaving work. 


Sir Gcorge Williams College 


1441 Drummond Street (Officcs on Third Floor) Ferquctte 8331. 


