i 9 fe 


KA? KRANAWANA BaAVADCAGT  ------ BLAVLIUN C¥Cx 


There is in all of us an urge from time to time to go off into the 
woods and live the simple natural life, free from the restrictions and 
conventions of civilization. This is probably an inheritance from our 
nomadic ancestors who roamed about, pitching their tents wherever there 
Was grazing ground for their stock, Modern city life has intensified this 
feeling, and boys particularly, after ten months of conventional life in 
the city, feel very strongly the urge to get away from it all and to 
rough it in the wilds. 

Many years ago the iiontreal Young Men's Christian Association ree- 
ognized this urge on the part of boys, and opened one of the first summer 
camps for boys on the North American continent at St. Adolphe de Howard 
as a branch of their men's camp. In 1909 the demand for s neplnasern aes 
Was 80 great that a beautiful site on the shores of Lake Kanawana in the 
Laurentians was purchased, and for twenty-seven years Kanawana has been 
the sumer home of thousands of Montreal boys, 

Camping to-day is of course vastly different from what it was in 


those early days. Then it was felt that it was sufficient to take boys 


out into the woods, pitch a oe, and let them rough it. We id ao nen 
ae owt 4 we wale sf hn 


just what happened, ‘but 
UL n£ o + bhatt y Aare 


age that it was a wort while experience, To-day, however, with the in- 
oe | 


crease a& our knowledge of ssychology and the other social sciences, 
the summer camp has come to be looked on by parents and educators as 


an experience for the developement of character and personality in boys. 


Boys are essentially active, and they learn by doing things nx 
from which they derive setisfaction, and they learn best by repeating 
these satisfactory experiences, In @tmp the boy becomes a member of 
the community with certain rights and with certain responsibilities, 
He gains his rights through the carrying out of his responsibilities 
to the community. This, of course, is the basis of good citizenship, 
and many boys have received their first lesson in citizenship through 
their experience in a well-conducted summer camp. 

Character and personality are simply the product of the manner in 
which we respond to all our experiences, In camp there are continually 
opportunities for making choices and determining ways cf action. The 
unique feature of the camp is that thcse choices are made under the 
guidance of mature and competent counselors who have been specially 
trained for their work, The years that lie ahead of us callfor men of 
strong personality and high private, as well as public, integrity. 
fhe wise parent recoghizes the contribution which the sumer cemp can 
make to his boy's development, and makes provision in the summer plans 
for the boy to spend some time at least in a properly organized camp, 
preferably one with a long tradition and experience back of it. 

In order to achieve the best purposes of camping three things are 
essential to success. The organization and the facilities of the camp 
must be of the best, the staff must be well and carefylly selected, wm 
gee tie tndiinog ay trained in camping methods, and the program must be 
such that it provides opportunity for choice and initiative and the 
opportunity for a growing experience, 


Kamp Kanawana, With its twenty-seven years of experience, meets shuns 


these qualifications in a unique degree. While the camp site itself is 
situated on the shores of Lake Kanawana, its property of one hundred 


and fifty acres includes the complete shore-line of three lakes and ihr 


a portion of the shore-line of a fourth. The camp is divided into three 
sections, Juveniles, for voys under twelve years of age, Junior®&, for 
boys twelve to fourteen, and Senior, for boys fifteen to seventeen. 


Bach section is organized with its own director, and staff of counselors, 


Hach section has its own campus and recreation hall for rainy weather 


and carries on its own program of activities, graded properly according 
to the age and interest of the campers. The boys in the Senior and Junior 
sections sleep in tents, each of which is pitched on, high dry wooden 
platformg. The boys in the Juvenile section, those under twelve years of 


age sleep in cabins which are being erected new this year, These cabins 


) 
are Well constructed and contain bunks for seven boys and a counselor, 
mere is lets of light and air, with e211 doors and windows well screened. 
All tents and cabins look out over the lake, each in a choice location, 

The fleet of forty boats and canoes permits of an adequate pro- 
gram of water samkixikmunxx activities. Kefore boys are allowed to use these 
boats and canoes they must pass certain tests to satisfy the camp auth- 
orities as to theft fitness and skill in handling them, Three swimming 
wharves, one in each section, provide excellent facilities for swimming, 
and for instruction in swimming and life saving. 

The dispensary and hospital, under the supervision of a resident 
@vaduerwte doctor, ensures proper care in case of illness or naatiect, 
The large cedar log dining pavilion is a Shostitca building and a very 
popular spot three times a day. j 

Two large playfields, one on either side of the lake , provide opp- 
ortunity for games and sports of all descriptions. Off in the woods, 
along the shore of the lake,is the outdoor chapel where service is held 
each Sunday morning. Behind the chapel ,on the hill, is the Council Ring 
where campfires aee—Hese which have a pti significance pe belo, 


Great care is always taken in selecting the staff for Kanawana, 


a ly 


The camp director, who has charge of all activities, is one of the 
senior secretaries of the Montreal Y.M.C.A. The Section Directors are 
men with wide experience in working with boys either in the Y.M.C.A. 
or in school. Associated with these directors is a group of thirty- 
five trained and qualified counselors, each in charge of a tent or 
cabin group of six or seven boys. Many of these counselors are old 
Kanawana beyt. All have attended a thorough training course in prep- 
aration for thet task. 

The camp doctor, who is in camp at all times, is a graduate of 
MeGill University, with some years of hospital experience behind him, 
The chef, who prepares the meals as drawn up by a qualified dietitian, 
has been ket at Kanawana for the past ten years. We feel that the camp 
staff is adequate and well trained for their job. 

The camp program is so arranged as to take into consideration 
the individual needs of every boy, and an effort is made to see that ea 
is happily adjusted to his new environient. It is graded according to the 
age ofthe boyd and his length of stay in camp, so that there is always 
another new experience just ahead. Periods of relatively quiet activity 
are alternated with the more active athletic games, and land and water 
sports, Adequate provision is made for sufficient rest between strenuous 
activities.< 

The days? program is a varied one. When the rising bell rings all 
boys get up and go down to the lake for their wash and dip. The daily 
soap bath is an important feature of the day's programme and is followed 
by an inspection for cuts, bruises,or sores of any kind. All such are 
immediately reported to the doctor who sees that the necessary treat- 
ment is received. After the boys are dressed mamx comes the signal for 
breakfast, and it is very seldom that a second eall is needed. Follow- 
ang breakfast is the daily ten-minute chapel service taken by a member 


of the staff. 


an 


The next forty-five minutes are spent in cleaning up the dining hall, 
tents and campus, when everything is put shipshape for the day. Then 
followe the interest group periéds, Here there is opportunity for boys 
ef all types to find something to interest them. There are groups in 
basketry, woodworkng, leatherwork, metalcraft, nature study, photo- 
graphy, dramatics, bird lore, campcraft, woodcraft, canoeing, beating, 
and many others. ¥requently boys, either individually or in small groups, 
work on particular projects. Une group may build a cabin in the woods, 
another 2 lean-to accross: the lake, in which they will later sleep, Per~ 
haps a group will deeidetone of the bridges along a trail needs re-buildg 
ing, and will set ext to do that.Some boys decide to build a boat and 
then there is great seurrying around to find wood, and for a few days 
there is sawing and hammering going on at a great rate, until the great 
dg comes when the boat is launehed and named,and the proud builders 
Fees a trip ef2 up the lake. 

There is no limit to the ingenuity of boys, and tonstructive ideas 
are encouraged and fostered, Leadership and help being given where 
needed, but the boy's initiative is encouraged at every point. 


When the interest groups are over it is time for swimning instruction. 
Beginners are taught separately with individual instruction, and it 


is the exceptional boy who does not learn to swim quickly at Kanawana. 
There are classes also for those who can oie a little, but not well, 

and classes,toc, for advanced swimmers who are anxious to inprove their 
stroke. Instruction is also given in both elementary and fancy diving. 

At the same time the class in Life Saving is under way, and boys are 
taught the fundamentals of life saving methods leading to the sarti tients: 
of the National Council of the Y.M.C.A. There are classes for all grades 
of swimmers and an affort is made each year to have every boy improve 

his swimming ability. 


_ After the instruction periods is General Swim, where boys put into 


Rint , _ ceed ee ee ee eer 


practi@e what they have learned in the instruction periods. General 
swim is lots of fun. Two diving boards, one high and one low, provide 
opportunity for boys to try their skill at the thrilling sport of 
diving. The long water shute, where boys slide from the top of the hill 
down into the waterwith a mighty splash is also lots of fun. Obviously 
only the good swimmers try these, so that all non-swimmers are keen to 
pass out of the beginners' class and take their turn on the shute and @ 
diving boards, All swimming periods are carefully patrolled by qual- 
ified life-guards placed at stitegic points along the waterefront and 
in boats, one life guard for every ten boys. 

After the swim the boys lie about in the sun untilA dinner time, 
Hach day following dinner there is a song and music period. New songs are 
learned, and campers with musical ability take turns in playing for 
the rest of the camp. Then comes rest period. After the strenuous 
morning the boys need to rest, and for the hour following dinner there 
is no activity. Boys are encouraged to sleep. Perhaps they read, of 
write letters home. Sometimes the counselor will xamdx read a story. 
This hour is essentially a rest hour and it provides recuperation for 
a busy afternoon. 

The afternoon is comparatively free. boys may boat or canoe, or 
go on short hikes, The craftshops are open for those who want to work 
there. Games are organized for those who want them, but no coercion 
is used to make boys participate if they do not want to, Regattas, 
swimming meets, athletic meets and other games and sports take place in 
the afternoon. before supper is another swim , as carefully patrolled 
as in the morning. 

After supper quiet games are played, or boys again go out on the 
lake, boating and canceing. When darkness falls the campfires are lit. 
Sometimes the fire #m is in the Council Hing, sometimes it is on the 
eampus, sometimes on the hill accross the lake, or on cold nights in 


) 
2 ts aes ak VY a a 


: ar: 


= 73 F de aioe Sg eal 
ie a 
: . 


the large open fireplaces in the recreation halls. What memories 


these campfires bring to old Kanawanians, of songs wane getories told, 
ef stunts and games, and of the quiet, inspirational note which beings 
the day to a close. Friendships are cemented firmky around the fires 
of Kanawana. Then as the embers are dieing down, its off to bed, to 
snuggle in between the blankets thoroughly satisfied witn life, and 
determined to make to-morrow an even better day than to-day. 

Briefly etated then, the purposes of Kanawana are to provide a 
camp where a boy is safe, morally and physically,; to stimulate the 
boy's growth and development by furnishing ample opportunity for happy 
and profitable activities underm the leadership of carefully selected 
counselors, thus filling each day brimful of fun and happiness, and the 
keen zest of healthful Living; and, through personal attention, : 


to inspire our boys with the ideals of Axx Christian Citizenship, that 


t 


they may make a worthy contribution to the life of their home and 
coumunity. 7 


Parents, who are considering the choice of a summer camp for 


their boys, will be making no mistake in selecting Kanawana, the 
Y.M.C.A. summer camp for boys. Buil information may be secured either 
by writing or telephoning to any, of the eight branches of the Y.N.C.A. 


in Montreal, An enquiry will bring an immediate reply. 


A, 


