w. 


. Sharpe - 


The Voice of Youth - Feature Programme <- 
Thur. 10 Nov. I938 - CBM - Told peMe 


The Boys of Kanewens. 


(Piano - come in with a chord to start esch song.) 


Songs - 
i. Kaemewana Marching Song. 
ii. Hi-ho, hi-ho. 


Well, fellows, it's certeinly like old times at Kemp Kenawane - for your 
singing recalls those zippy cemp sing-songs in the dining hell, at Ferewell 
Rock, around the fire-rafts on the lake, and - of course- at our Seturday 
Night Shows. and - who'd heve thought that John Peerson, when he was waving 
his arms at us when leading the sing-songs, would one day be waving those 


same arms while your old favourites went on the air? 


But - therets another memory we must bring beck. Remember [2-year old Sandy 


Spence singing on Sunday at camp to over 250 campers and visitors. 


Sandy - there will be a great many more listening to you to-night, as you 
sing - “My Old Kentucky Home". And - they're all waiting to hear you. 


Song - "My Old Kentucky Home". 
(Applause - feding on signal) 


How about one of our Saturday Night skits, Frank? 


Coming right up, John. Kanawana's expert skit producer - Morry Cross - 
has one called 'Hot News'; and, in keeping with our radio megezine - 


"The Voice of Youth - the scene is leid in ea newspeper office. 


The actors; Editor - Morry Cross; : 
Reporters - Allan Steeves; Keith Farquarson; end Bob Lemoine. 


Ready - ACTION. 


J 
“e 


Wilmot - (Sound effects - slamming door; presses, typewriter, or telegraph. ) 


Steeves - Here’s some red hot news for you, Chief. Reilroad accident at Westmount. 
Fifty people killed. 


Cross - When? 

Steeves - dust half an hour ago. 

Cross - No good. Too old. Seram! And don't come beck until we you have some real 
hot news. 

Wilmot - (Sound effects as above.) 


Farquerson - Get « load of thie, Chief. Two airplanes collided at Cartierville. 
Eighty people killed. 


Cross = When? 


Farquerson - Just ten minutes ago. 


Cross - No good. Stale stuff. Get out. we want hot news. 

Wilmot - (Sound effects as above.) 

Lemoine - Big news, Chief. Gasworks explode at Ville Emard. One hundred people killed. 
Cross - When? 

Lemoine - Wait a minute. Listen - 0%. 

Wilmot - (Bxplode paper bag.) 


p= = (Levgehter and groans - fading ovt on signal.) 


Sharpe - *Hot news* is right; but - now for some real mesic. — e Re ver at the. 
Wednesday Night oe feeds - Benny Leshley, tiekiea ie old ivories with 
Vee Yew = alee > 
the touch of a master seed ome With him to-night ~~ Housemen, who, like 


3. 


Sendy Spence, is another of Kenawana's song birds. Benny will pley that 


Leshley- femous Scottish air “Loch Lomond"; later - fading into the melody of 


piano cue. 
"The World Is Waiting for the Sunrise” - which will be sung by John Hoveemen. 


Leshley - (Piano - "Loch Lomond.) 
Fading to - 
Housemen - Seng - chorvs only - “fhe World Is Waiting For The Sunrise". 
// smoree - (Appleuse - fading on signal.) 
IESE, 
all 
Lemoine - Say, Frank - we ‘ve hed singing, a skit, and msic - but, how about one of our . 


Seturdey Night Show stories? 


Sharpe - Right you are, Bob. Here it is. 
The story - "The King with the Terrible Temper". 
The story-teller - “John Pearson, thet debonair jack-of-all trades”. 
‘ound effects - “By the Boys of Kaneawana”. 
And - let's give it lot's of stuff! 


Pearson - There was once a king with a terrible temper. 

Chorus - Grere-TrePe 

Pearson - He had three deughters, the oldest of which was very fat. 
Chorus - Ka-plunk. 

Pearson ~ The second was exceedingly thin. 

Chorus - (Whistle) 

Pearson - But - the youngest was very besutiful. 

Chorus - Awa-a-sh. 

Pearson - Now in @ nearby country, there lived a handsome prince. 
Chorus - Achae 

Pearson - One day he came to the palace of the king with the terrible temper. 


Chorus - Gr-rer-re 


4. 


pearson - "J have come", seid he, “to seek a wife among your daughters". 

Chorus - Ke-plunk ~- (whistle) - s-a-a-ah. 

Pearson - First, he was presented to the oldest and heaviest daughter. 

Chorus « Ke-plunk. 

Pearson - "che would eat too much", said the handsome prince. 

Chorus - A-hee 

Pearson - Thmappeared the daughter who was very thin. 

Chorus - (Whistle). 

Pearson ~ She did not please him, either; so, he said, “I heve heard you have a young 


and beautiful daughter? 


Chorus - jraeatehe 

Pearson - This displeased the king with the terrible temper. 
Chorus - Grerer-re 

Pearson - Said he, “you can't rob my nursery for a bride". 


"Well" ,came the reply, "I cannot love your oldest deughter". 


Chorus - Ke-plunk. 

Pearson « I don't like your thin daughter. 

Chorus - (Whistle(). 

Pearson - dust then - on the stair ~- appeared the youngest and most beeutiful daughter. 
Chorus - A-a-aeah, 

Pearson ~ Rapture filled the heart of the handsome prince. 

Chorus - Anhe. 

Peerson - Then he cried, “She must be mine". His words greatly angered the king with the 


terrible temper. 


Chorus - Gr-rer-re 

Peerson - "Gall out the guards", he thundered, “and turn ont this upstart of a prince”. 
Chorus - Awhee 

Pearson - But - the suitor at once seized in his arms the willing princess. | 


Chorus ~ Ao@tegeah. 


5. 


Pearson - With her, he rushed out. Shen the royal court reached the door, all they 
could see was « cloud of dust raised by the hoofs of » galloping horse. 


Chorus - (Horse hoofs). 
pearson - and here endeth the story of the king withthe terrible temper. 
Chorus - Grere-r-Te 
Pearson - His three daughters. 
Chorus - Ka-plunk -(whistle) - a-e-a-sh. 
Pearson - And the handsome prince. Le 
Chorus - A-ha. { A 
(Nnefne Teer ) 
Sharpe - Bravot That's « story whet is a story. And - now to Dick Abrahm - with his 


guiter and Kanewane song specialty - "Johnny Verbec”. Grind out the sausage 
% 


song, Dick. 


Abrahm - (With guiter - song - “Johnny Verbec".) 

Chorus - (Laishley - give piano chord for 'Taps'.) 
Song - *Taeps't. 

Sharpe - (Thréugh music of 'Taps*'.) 


All too soon ovr sixth feature programme - a variety show of fun and frolic, 
in words and music - presented by the boys of Kemp Kanawene - turns back to 
the desk of the Bditor-In-Chief of 'The Voice of Youth’ - Ted Moorehouse. 


