ee ae a ll a a ~ ble i i aie Be 


; va, 
| nPpe sy 
fo 


RADIO. 


Advertising » VICKERS & BENSON LTD. - Montreal-Toronto 


"The Voice of Youth” - No.30 
Thur November 10th,1938 


Wilmot: - 


MoorhGuse: - 


Wilmot :- 


Extra! Extra! Hear all about it ! 


(Up presses) 


The Canada Starch Company Limited presents:- 
"The Voice of Youth" 
a radio journal for boys and girls with Ted “oorhouse. 
It's feature article night once agein for The Voice of Youth, and here at 
his desk, selecting the illustrations for our special issue, is our 


editor-in-chief, Ted Moorhouse. 


Good evening, boys and girls. You know by now that every Thursday night 
brings us a full-length article on some one of the group activities of 
youth in this district. And tonight is camp night, when under the 
direction of our Special Events editor, Frank Sharpe, we shail reproduce 
for you a glimpse of the fun that is had at one of the oldest and 
largest camps in the Laurentians. It's Kanawana night, and here in the 
studio we are surrounded by a crowd of fine, healthy-looking, bright 
eyed boys who are going to present for you a Kanawane variety show just 
as it might be held on one of those beautiful summer evenings on the 
shores of Lake Kanawana. But first of all, there is still a little 
business to be done around the office. Jerry, has the advertising 


copy come up? 


Here it is chief: 


RADIO 


Wilmot:- 


Moorhouse: ~ 


Advertising - VICKERS & BENSON LTD. - Montreal-Toronto _ 


- 


~Be 


Start the day off right, eat "CROWN BRAND" CORN SYRUP every morning. 
Try it om your cereal, porridge, toast and pancakes. It's a delicious 
treat and a wonJerful source of quick energy. For personality plus 


@as “CROWN BRAND" CORN SYRUP. 


ae. and now for our article on Kamp Kanawana. That's a great institution, 


Jerry. For twenty-nine years now, Kanewana has been a by-word amongst 
the boys of Montreal, and from tis city and other parts of the province 
over four hundred boys each year revel in the fun to be had amon:sat the 
lakes and the woods near St.Sauveur, 54 miles north of hentatenl. The 
Montreal ¥.H.C.A. which sponsors the camp as a non-profit organization, 
and, in particular, the camp director, Chief Greig MacDiarmid are to be 
congrétulated for the splendid way in which they provide opportunity for 
boys to have a glorious summer program of athletics, of entertainment 

and of vocational projects and hobbies of practical use. There is nothing 
like fun in the out-of-doors, and though its large and well-trained staff, 
through exceptional facilities which include the shores of four lakes, 
three swimming wharves, a fleet of forty boats, a craft shop, a library 
and an outdoor chapel, Kanawana provides e maximum of fun and instruction 
in a beautiful setting. The friendships that have been made and the 
character-building that has been achieved there have been a large 
contribution to the service of youth in this province. 

But I mustn't take any more time telling you about the camp, for a host 

of eager young men are waiting here to entertain you with a variety show 
of Kanawana Kapers. Aad so to our feature contribution of this week's 


issue, - our Special Events Editor, Frank Sherpe, who is capering up to 


the microphone, and the “oys of Kenawana! 


RADIO _ 


— 


Advertising » VICKERS & BENSON LTD. - Montreal-Toronto 


-3= 
Leshley:- (Piano - come in with a chord to start each song) 
Chorus: - Songs 
1.- Kanawana Marching Song 
2.- Hi-tllo, Hi-tio. 
Sharpe: - Well, fellows, it's certainly like old times at Kamp Kanawana - for your 


sincing recalls t ose zippy camp sing-songs in the dining hall, at Farewell 
Kock, around the fire-rafts on the lake, and - of course - at our Saturday 
Night Shows. And, who'd have thought that John Pearson, when he was 
waving his arms at us when leading the sing-songs, would one day be waving 
those same arms while your old favourites went on the air? 

But - there's another memory we must bring back. Remember 12-year old 
Sandy Spence singing on Sunday at camp to over 250 campers and visitors. 


Sandy - there will be a great many more listening to you tonight, as you 


we . 

| sing - “My 014 Kentucky Home". And - they're all waiting to hear you. 
Leishley 
piano cuei-- 
Spence:- Song - “My Old Kentucky Home". 
Chorus: - (Applause - fading on signal) 
Pearson:- How about one of our Saturday aight skits, Frank? 
Sharpe: - Coming right up, John. Kanawana's expert skit producer - Morry Cross - 


has one called “Hot News"; and, ‘in keeping with our radio magazine - "The 
Voice of Youth" - the scene is laid in a newspaper office. 


The actors : iditor - Morry Cross 
Keporters - Allan, Steeves; Keith Farquarson and bob Lemoine 


Ready - ACTION 


"os 
y 


RADIO. 


Steeves:-~ 


Crossi- 


Steeves: - 


Grossi- 


Wilmot: - 


Farquarson: - 


Cross: - 


Farquarson: - 


Crossi- 


Wilmot: - 


Lemoine: - 


Crossi- 


Lemoine: - 


Wilmot: - 


Chorus: - 


Advertising » VICKERS & BENSON LTD. ~ Montreal-Toronto 


~4- 


(Sound effects - slamming door; presses, typewriter or telegraph) 
Here's some red hot news for you, Chief. ailroad accident at Yestmount. 


fifty people killed. 
When? 
Just balf an hour azo. 


No good, Too old. Secram? And don't come back until you have some real 


hot news. 
(Sound effects as above.) 


Get a load of this, chief. Two airplanes collided at Cartierville. 


#ighty people killed. 

when ? 

Just ten minutes ago. 

No good. Stale sutff. Get out. We want hot news. 
(Sound effects as above) 


Big news, chief. Gasworks explode at Ville Mmard. One hundred people 


killed. 

When? 

Wait a minute. Listen - NOW. 
tmepledin’ duper bag) 


(Laughter and groans - fading out on signal) 


Sharpe: - 


Leshley- 
piano cue 


Leshly: - 
Fading to - 
Houseman: - 


Chorus! - 


Lemoine: - 


Sharpe:- 


Pearson:- 


Chorus: - 


Pearson: - 


Chorus: - 


Advertising » VICKERS & BENSON LTD. - Montreal-Toronto 


-5- 


"Hot News" is right; but - now for some real music. Many a time, at the 
Wednesday Night Leaders’ feeds - Benny Leshley, one of Montreal's leading 
young pianists, tiekled the old ivories with the touch of a master musician. 
With him tonight is 12-year old John Houseman, who, like Sandy Spence, is 
another of Kanawana's song birds. Benny will play that famous Scottish 
air “Loch Lomond"; later ~ fading into the melody of "The World is Waiting 


for the Sunrise” - which will be sung by John Houseman. 


(Piano - Loch Lomond) 


Song - chorus only - “The World is Waiting for the Sunrise” 


(Applause - fading on signal) 


Say, Prank - we've had singing, a skit, and music - but, how about one of 


our Saturday Night Show stories? 


Right you are, Bob. Here it is. 

The story - "The King with the Terrible Temper". 

The story-teller - "John Pearson, that debonair jack-of-all trades". 
Sound effects - “By the boys of Kanawana", 


And @ let's give it lot's of stuff! 

There was once a king with a terrible temper. 

Grer-r-r. 

He had three daughters, the oldest of which was very fat. 


Ka-plunk. 


RADIO 


Pearsonie 
Chorus: - 
Pearson: ~- 
Chorus: - 
Pearson: - 
Chorus: - 
Pearson: ~ 
Chorus: - 
Pearson: - 
Chor usi- 
Pearson: - 
Chorus: = 
Pearson: - 
Chorus: - 
Pearson: - 
Chorus: - 


Pearson: - 


Advertising » VICKERS & BENSON LTD. ~ Montreal-Toronto 


The second was exceedingly thin 

(Whistle) 

But - the youngest was very beautiful. 

A-a-a-eh, 

Now in a nearby country, there Lived a handsome prince. 


A-ha, 


One day he came to the palace of the king with the terrible temper. 


GreLaPaIe 


"I have come”, said he, "to seek a wife among your daughters”. 


Ke-pluak (Whistle) - a-e-a-ah. 


First, se was presented to the oldest and heaviest daughter. 


Ka-plunk. 

"She would eat too much", said the handsome prince. 
Awha. 

Then appeared the daughter who was very thin. 
(Whistle) 


She did not please him, either; 


and beautiful daughter.” 


so, he said, “I have heard you have a young 


RADIO 


- Advertising » VICKERS & BENSON LTD. - Montreal-Toronto 


Chorus: ~ 
Pearson: - 
Chorus: - 


Pearson: = 


Chorus: 
Pearson: - 
Chorus: = 
Pearson: - 
Chorus: - 
Pearson: - 
Chorus: - 


Pearsont- 


Chorus: - 


Pearsoni- 


Chorus: - 


Pearsoni- 


a 


Awa-a-aeh. 
This displeased the king with the terrible temper. 
Gr-r-r-r. 


Said be, “you can't rob my nursery for a bride”. 


"Well", came the reply, "I cannot love your oldest daughter". 

Ke-plunk 

I don't like your thin daughter. 

(Whistle) 

Just then - on the stair - appeared the youngest and most beautiful daughter 
A-a-a-ah. 

Rapture filled the heart of the handsome prince. 

A-ha 


Then he cried, "She must be mine”. His words greatly angered the king 


with the terrible temper. 
Gr-r-r-r. 


"Call out the veards", he thundered, "and turn out this upstart of a 


prince”. 
Awha. 


But - the suitor at once seized in his arss the willing princess. 


Advertising » VICKERS & BENSON LTD. + Montreal-Toronto 


Chorusi- 


Pearson: - 


Chorus: - 
Pearson: - 
Chorus: - 
Pearson: - 
Chorus: - 
Pearson: - 
Chorus ?- 


Sharpe: - 


Abrahm: - 


Chorus: - 


Sharpe: - 


RADIO 


A-a-a-ah © 


With her, he rushed out. When the royal court reached the door, all they 


could see was a cloud of dust raised by the hoofs of ea galloping horse. 
(Horse hoofs) 

And here endeth the story of the king with the terrible temper. 
Gr-r-r-r. 

His three daughters. 

Ke-plunk - (Whistle) - a-a-a-ah. 

And the handsome prince. 

A-ha. 


Bravo! That's a story what is a story. And - now to Dick Abrahm - with 
his guitar and Sanawana song specialty - “Johnny Verbec". Grind out the 


sausage song, Dick. 
(With guitar - song - "Johnny Verbdec") 


(Leishley - give piano chord for “Taps".) 


Song - "Taps". 


(Through music of "Taps") 
All too soon our sixth feature programme - a variety show of fun and 


frolic, in words and music - presented by the boys of Kamp Kanawana - 


turns back to the desk of the Editor-in-chief of "The Voice of Youth" 
Ted Moorhouse. 


RADIO 


Advertising - VICKERS & BENSON LTD. ~- Montreal-Toronto 


Moorhouse: - Thank you, Frank, and a salute to the boys of Kanawanea. Those long 
summer evenings must be all too short if you have as good a time ag them 
as you've given us here. I wish we hed more chance to hear of some of 
your other activities, but perhaps we'll manage it in some future issue, 
But our sports news is on the wire with the results of this afternoon's 


big championship football game. Give us the report, will you, Jerry. 


Wilmot: - \ (Sport News) 


Moor house: - And now the deadline for publication is here, and the mighty presses 
belonging to your journal of youth are ciled and ready. Push the buzzer 
to the press-room Jerry. 

(Presses) 
Another vocal copy of your radio journal has come to you. Listen in 
again tomorrow night to our special Literary issue of "The Voice of Youth"¢ 
This is your editor-in-chief, Ted Moorhouse, saying "Good-Bye" until that 


time. 


Wilmot: - Here is the last display advertisement for tonight. Listen attentively. 
Keep fit with "CRUWN BRAND" CORN SYRUP. 
If you are strong and full of energy and pep, you are far more likely to 
suceeed in work, study or sport and be liked by everyone you meet. To gain 
that vitality and keep it nothing is of more importance than eating the 
proper kinds of food. You'll enjoy the delightful flavor of "CROWN BRAND" 
CORN SYRUP and find that it supplies you with fresh energy, in a 


surprisingly short time. Yor greater enjoyment, end for better health, 


eat "CROWN BRAND" CORN SYRUP - every day, 


! ; ae) ae 
J RADIO 
Advertising > VICKERS & BENSON LTD. - Montreal-Toronto 


— #10- 


Wilmot: - Tomorrow evening at 7.15, The Canada Starch Cogpany Limited, makers of - 
CROWN BRAND CORN GYNUP will present another home edition of "The Veice of 
Youth", the radio journal for youth by youth, Will you be listening? 


Your announcer, Jerry Wilmot, bids you "Good Night". 


-6-0-0- 


