_» ~~ Kamp Kanewana 
, June 10, 1939 
9.45 pem. 


Announcere+es+seeeeGood evening ladies and gentlemen. For the past two Saturday 
evenings at this time we have had with us here in the studio 

of CRCF, Mr. Macdiarmid, the director, and Dr. Mitchell, the 
medical advisor of Kamp Kanawana, the YMCA summer camp for boys. 
They have told us graphically of the facilities of the camp, 
of the care taken in the physical, spiritual and intell- 
ectual development of the campers and of the precautions 
observed to safeguard health and safety. Following their talks 
we have hedy many requests for further information that we 
have brought to the studio to-night, three persons who have 
had a long association with Kanawana and we are going to ask them 
to tell you something further about the camp, which has been 
truly described as “the Boy's Paradise in the Laurentians”. 

Here are Junior Taylor, 14 years old who has been a camper 
for the past four years, Basil Burgess, a camper at Kanawana 
since he was a little fellow and a leader for the past three 
years, and J. F. Cartier, a member of the Camp Board, and father 
of a boy who thinks Kanawana the only place to spend his summer. 

First, here's Junior Taylor. Junior will you tell us, and 
our listening audience, something about Kanawana and why you go 
back there each year. 

Juniore..eees vou bet I will. I went to camp first in 1935 and haven't missed 
a year since. I can hardly wait until June 24th when it opens 
again, and I'm going to be there among the first. I don't 
know just why I like Kanawana so much, but it does something 


to you, that makes you want to go back. I think its partly the 


fun you have, and partly the spirit that is there. 


», 


ey 
4 
’ ek | 


(2) . 
A fellow has a chance to be himself and to do a lot of things 


he wants to do. You know, in the city, there's always someone to 
tell a boy what he enagidn*t do. But at camp they tell you what 
you can do and there's always somebody there to help you do it. 
hstinenbttihe adi ced? ig tasth tin. Tell us what you mean by someone to help ve 
tunxaK you do it. tai 
Junior.e...+..e-Well, the staff and the leaders are always ready to help you 
_— out. If you like swimming, they teach you. If you want to 
go on a hike, they go along with you and teach you how to pack 
and how to carry a packsack, and how to build an overnight 
shelter, and to cook and all that sort of thing. 

Then if you want to make something in the craftshop, there's 
someone there to help you do it. And the meals, oh boy, they re 
great. Chef McHardy did a great job last year, and we're all 
glad he's coming back again. 

Another thing I like are the campfires. Sitting around 
the fire at night with a bunch of fellows is great. We sing 
songs, play stunts, someone tells a story, and it closes with a 
hymn and a prayer. Then we get chased off to bed. But somehow 
you don't seem to mind it in camp like you do at home. I hope 
I'm ahle to go to Kanawana every year, until I'm old enough to 
be a leader, and help other fellows have the fun I've had. 

Announcer....Thank you very much Junior. That was Junior Taylor, who has 
camped at Kanawana since he was ten years old. I think you've 
made us all wish we could be boys again and back at Kanawana 
with you. 

And now, here is Basil Burgess, a third year student at 
McGill University, and another old-timer. Basil, you are one 


of the leaders, how long have you been camping at Kanawana? 


BUPZeSSeeeseeeeeeeSince 1930. I was a camper for # six years and a leader 


= 


) 


} (3) 
for three. I'm going back this year for my tenth year, my 
fourth as a leader. And I wouldn't miss it for the world. My 
years as a Gemper did a lot for me. They taught me to look 
after myself and to be self-reliant. That's one of the reasons 
x wikted to be a leader, and why I keep going back year after 
year. I feel that I want to help the younger boys, as the 
leaders helped me when I was a kid. 
You know acting as leader and passing on your knowledge 

and experience is a great thing. We leaders feel we have a 
real responsibility--but it's fun, too. It's great to see some 

one real greenhorn come to camp and to watch him develop and learn 
to do things. I remember a fellow who couldn't swim. He was 
absolutely frightened of the water. A leader took him in hand 
and gave him personal instruction every day. He had first to 
overcome the fear of the water. That was a hard job, but he 
did it. Then came the swimming lessons. It was a long slow 
process, but before he went home that boy could swim 25 yards. 
It was a real satisfaction to that leader to know that he had 
done something worthwhile. ‘That sort of thing goes on all the 
time. Our job as leaders is to supervise the activities of the 
campers and to teach them skills in the various activities in 
which we are proficient ourselves. 

Announcer...+eeeeeThat’s very interesting, but tell us, Basil, what sort of 
training do the leaders have? Are they just selected at random, 
or how is it done? 

BurgesSSeecececeeeee When a leader comes to camp he knows what it's all about. 
Before he is accepted he has to attend a training course, when 
he is given a complete understanding of his’ job. The course 
combines theory and practice. Such things as "Understanding 
Boy Nature" and "H,w to lead Hikes", are covered in a practi¢al 


way. 


(4) 
All phases of camp life are covered, and we understand 
pretty thoroughly what our job is to be, and what our respons- 
ibilities are. If a fellow doesn't take in the training 
course he has small chance of being accepted. Of course he has 
to be a right living fellow as well because his influence on 
the boys has got to be a good one. 

I don't think there is any finer experience a fellow can 
have than to spend the summer at Kanawana. He mixes with the 
right type of boy and the leaders are really interested in him. 
We think its a great privilege to be there and I just wish every 
boy in Montreal Gould join us. 

ANNOUNCE eseeeeeeeeThank you, Basil. You have made us realize the importance 
of the leaders at Kanawana. I am sure parents who are listening 
in will appreciate the seriousness with which you take your 
responsibilities. It must be gratifying to them to know that 
there are young men like yourself in charge of each tent and 
cabin. 

Junior Taylor and Basil Burgess have told us, ladies and 
gentlemen, something of Kanawana from the Campers and leaders 
points of view. Here is Mr. Cartier, father of a boy who camps 
at Kanawana. Mr. Cartier I wonder what you think of what Junior 
and Basil have said? Is Kanawana really the wonderful place 
they describe it to be? 

Cartier...seosoeseslt is indeed. Two years ago when I was interested in send- 
ing my ten year old boy t6 a summer eum, i got a great deal of 
information about a number of omnes and finally selected Kana~ 
wana, because I believed it would do what I had in mind for the 
boy. First of all, it is conducted by the YMCA, and I believe 
that the YMCA influence is a good one. Its purpose is to 
develop Christain persons and a Christian Society, and I look 


(5) 
on the camp as a place where this is done, Then I wanted my 
boy under proper supervision, I wanted him to learn certain 
skills, and to develop a discipline of himself which every boy 
should have. Then too I felt he was going to be away from home 
influence for two months and that I wanted a camp where the 


spiritual side of life was not neglected. Like every father I 


‘Geka boy to grow up into a self-reliant Christian Gentleman. 


So I chose Kanawana as the camp to send him to, and I have 
not been disappointed. For the past two years Jimmie has 
camped there and I have been a frequent visitor on week ends. 
To see the boys in action, to see their personalities bloss- 
oming forth, to see the care and attention which is given 

each individual boy, and to learn of the ween personal interest 
of the staff and leaders is really a wonderful experience. 

I was interested in what Junior Taylor said because I have 
heard my own son say the same thing many times. Basil Burgess 
spoke of the responsibilities of the leaders. I ean endorse 
that. The precautions which are taken to ensure that the boys 
are well looked after, and that they will be safe and healthy 
are really amazing. 

One of the features which I like about the camp, is that 
back of it, determining policies, and taking a keen, intelligent 
interest in everything that goes on is a Board of Management 
of twenty-two prominent tuxkumxx Montreal Business and Profess- 
ional men, who give liberally of their time and effort to ensure 
the success of the ventures. They are always trying to improve 
things and this year as you know, we have added a nurse to the 
steff as a further health measure. The nurse will work closely 


with the Doctor. 


? 


= 


’ 


(6) | 
As father of a camper, and as a member of the Board of 
Management, it has been my privilege to see the camp from all 
angles and I can assure that any parent can have complete 
confidence in entrusting their boys to the camp this summer. 

We must hot forget the boy's angle. While all these pre- 
cautions are taken, the fact that boys go to camp primarily for 
fun is not lost sight of. Life at Kanawana is all fun. Even 


work is play there.. It's a great spot for boys. 


Announcere..+.+++sThank you Mr. Cartier. You are certainly a great admirer 


of Kanawana. What you have said is important. They are the 
things which parents are concerned about as they plan their 
boys' vacations. Certainly Kanawana has a warm friend in YOUsee 
-++But here is Mr. Macdiarmid, chief of the camp. Chief, 

have you anything to say to our radio audience before we close 


this series of broadcasts on Kanawana. 


Macdiarmid........There is not much more to be said. Certainly Junior, Basil 


and Mr. Cartier have spoken most impressively of what we are 
trying todo. I would like to thank Station CFCF for their 
kindness in making possible these idee broadéasts in which 

we have been able to tell of what goes on at Kanawana. The 
camp opens on June 24th and for ten weeks, until September 2nd, 
willbe a hive of activity. Boys between the ages of ten and 
eighteen are weleome there. Anyone wishing more information 
should ask at any of the fourteen YMCA branches in the city or 
telephone MArquette 8331. We will gladly send them our 
illustrated booklet. The camp exists as a unit of the YMCA to 
serve the boyhood of Montreal. That is our job. We are trying 
to do it to the best of our ability. 


(7) | 
Announcer... +. .+++Thank you, chief, an@ thank you Junior, Basil an 


7 


—_ i Ae oll 
ae P 


ay Cartier. Ladies and Gentlemen. It has beennour pleasuré 9 
+ ade night to have with us Junior Taylor, camper, Basil Burgess, 
leader, and J. F. Cartier, father and Board Member, telling us 

7 of Kamp Kanawana, the YMCA camp for boys, in the Laurentians, 

and painting word pictures of what goes on there. Interested 

listeners will receive the camp booklet by calling Marquette 

8331 or any branch of the YMCA. This~—ise the-thtrd cf a series 

af —tbrenteasts—_on Kemp Henawere. 

This is Station CFCF and Shortwave CFCX, Marconi, Montreal. 


