MRe De Ae BUDGE I. 


There is a very great deal of material about Ur. Budge in the Annual 
Reports of the Montreal Y.M.C.A. and in the Minutes of the Board of Directors 
Meetings. This does not attempt to do more than gather together in chronoe 
logical order extracts from these sources which seem to be particularly 
relevent, and indicate what further sources of information are available. 

Ur. Alfred Sandham, Secretary of the Montreal 1. K. C. A., retired in 
February 1674 and on March 10th ur. D. A. Budge, who had previously been a 
committee worker, was appointed to take his place. He was the first Secretary 
to occupy the newly completed building, the first to be erected by the Assoc- 
lation in Montreal. 

1876 - 1877 Employment Committee 

Boarding House Committee 
1877 = 1878 Sunday Afternoon Bible Class Committee 
This class was presided over by ur. Budges "The Lord has 
strengthened our brother for this very important and arduous task", says the 
Report. This class was his special charge for a great many years. 

1675 = 1881 oarding House Committee (3 years) 

1678 = 1879 Annual Report Pe 10. ur. Budge was in charge of the Point 
Ste Charles Cottage Meeting. Average attendance Alle 

1881 = 1682 Annual Report F, 10. Went as a delegate to the Sth World 
Conference in London, England, in August. Represented the Montreal Association 
at the Canadian Convention in Cobourg in October, 

Lectures, Classes and Meetings Committee 

In charge of Sabbath afternoon Bible Class. 

1862 — 1853 mployment Comittee 

Delegate to International Conference of Railway Association 


Delegates at St. Thomas, ont, in Maye Delegate to second Dominion Conference 


Mre De Ae Budge 2. 


in Truro, I. 8., in Julye 

P. 16 muell Report. Educational Committee. The class in phonography 
was taught by D. A. Budge. 

1683 ~ 1686, Chairman of Mission Committee. 

Annual Report FE, 8. Represented the Association at the International 
Convention in Milwaukee. F. 18. Association tents were erected in the Brigade 
Camp at Brockville, where Mr. Budge was in charge. Several thousand tracts 
were distributed and every tent visited. 

186, — 1885 Annual Roport P. 11. Attended the Provincial Convention 
at Peterborough October 2326the 

Pe 15+ De A. Budge was absent for two months on account of ill health 
and his Young Men's Bible Class was taken over by Prof. Fenwick. 

1856 + 1887 Annual Report P. 29. The Svangelistic Bible Class spent an 
evening at Ur. Budge's house so that the members could be brought more into 
social intercourse. 

Pe. 38. He liberally entertained the Standard Snowshoe Club when they 
returned from their expeditions. 

1687 - 1868 Amnual Report Pe 35 ur. Budge addressed the boys occasionally 
at thoir Friday night meetings. 


1885 - 1889 
TO9O = chairman of Young Men's Building Committee 


1889 - 1690 Annual Report E. 36 Young Men's Bible Class Report. The 
Committee on behalf of the class desire to take this opportunity of wishing their 
leader, Mr. Budge, who is about to sail for Burope to enjoy a well-earned holiday, 
a very pleasant trip. 

Pe 37 Bible Study Department. kr. Budge took up a course of twenty lessons 
on training in personal and general Christian work. 

1890 - 1891 Chairmen of Training Classes Committee. 


Mire De Ae Budge Ss 


1890 - 1691 Annual Report Pe 16. Report of Executive. Urgent invitations 
and requests have come during the year from Winnipeg, the New York State Convention 
and other points, for our secretary to go and help them and, while the Committee 
regret that it was impossible for Mr. Budge to spare the time this year, they 
are gratified at this evidence that the services of our Secretary are known and 
appreciated abroad as well as at home". 

1891 - 1692 Annual Report P. 2, Sunday Afternoon Evangelistic Bible Class 
Report. at this time this report would be incomplete were noi mention/made of 
the extraordinary strain borne by our beloved teacher, Ur. D. A. Budge, curing the 
past year, and we rejoice for his sake that the time is coming soon when, with the 
present anxious problem settled, he shall be at liberty to give his undivided 
attention to the work in one building". 

1892 - 1893 Training Classes Committee. 

1892 = 189), Chairman of Personal Work Committee (2 years) 

189, = 1895 Chairman of Young Men's Meeting Committee. 

1895 = 1897 Chairman of Religious Department (2 years) 

1696 = 1899 Annual Report P. 22 ur. Budge conducted a Bible Study course 
on the Gospel of Ste John. 

1899 = 1900 Annual Report Pe 6 At the Annual Meeting Mre Alec Arthur, in 
a graceful and welleworded speech, on behalf of the members of the Association 
presented Mr. Budge with a silver tea service in honour of the completion of his 
twenty-fifth year of service as Secretary of the Association. Prolonged and 
hearty applause greeted this happy ceremony. Ar. Budge replied briefly, expressing 
his gratitude at the kindness of the friends and members who had made this gift. 

Pe 9 A meeting of Directors and members was held March 10th, 1699, to mark 
the fact thet our Secretary, Mre Budge, had completed a term of twenty-five years 


of service with the Association. In some respects this is unique in the history 


of the work, as only in the case of the late R. B. McBurney of NewYork City has 


Mre De A. Budge lye 


one man filled the post of Secretary continuously at one point for such a period. 
| Pe. 15 Finance Comittee. The splendid effort of the Secretary, Mur. D. A. 
Budge, to remove the mortgage indebtedness on the Building will,we trust, be 
crowned with success and allow of greater expansion and usefulness in our work. 

E. 21 Young Men's Bible Class Committee. The Committee, on behalf of the 
class, wish their leader, Mr. Budge, who is about to sail for Europe to enjoy a 
welleearned holiday, a very pleasant trip. 

March 10th, 1899. 1901 History of the Montreal T. H. C. A. P. 2. On this 
date Mr. D. A. Budge completed twenty-five years of service. The occasion was 
marked by a meeting of members and friends at 6 o'clock that morning in the 
Lecture Hall for prayer, praise and thanksgiving. On May 16th, two days af ter 
the Annual Meeting when he was presented with a silver tea service, a Banquet 
was tendered him by the Board of Directors, members and business men of the City. 
At this meeting Rev. Theodore Cuyler D. D. and Messrs. R. C. Morse and John Re 
Mott of New York City, were present and delivered addresses. The newspaper reports 
of the speeches and celebrations at this time have been gathered together into a 
small booklet under the title "Iwenty-fifth Anniversary of Ur. De A. Budge, 

General Secretary of the Y.M.C.A. held Thursday evening, May 10th, 1699, Association 
Hall, Montreal". A copy of this is obtainable in the files of the Metropolitm Office. 
Further reports are in the Minute Book of the Board of Directors Ma 1899 pages 

313 and Zu. Ar. Budge was granted four months leave of absence and, accompanied 

by urs. Budge, took an extended trip to Europe. 

History of the Montreal I. H. G. A. 1901 P. 26 "No history of the Association 
would be complete without reference to the noble part taken by the one who, under 
the guidance of God, has now for over twenty-seven years largely moulded its policy 
and directed its life - the beloved General Secretary, ur. D. 4. Budge. He has 
brought to his life work not only a consecrated religious devotion, which to a 


large degree has been the means of keeping the Association true to the lines of 


its direct work instead of wasting its power on side issues, which so often besets 


Mre De Ae Budge 5e 


such work. He has secured the esteem and active support of the business men of 
Montreal, and been able to surround himself with, and retain, sympathetic workers 
for the prosecution of the objects of the Associations He has, largely by his | 
efforts, through the esteem in which he is held in the community, been enabled to 
raise the funds which now places, free of debt, in the possession of the young men 
of Montreal, a property worth over $175,000.00. His influence hes guided the lives 
of many men for their eternal blessing and good, and truly, as of Sir Christopher 
Wren, it will be said of him, when the time comes for him to render up his account, 
"If you wish to see his monument look around in the hearts and lives of the young 
men he has touched during all these years". 

1901 — 1902 Annual Report F. 47 Jubilee Celebration June 6-10, 1901. 

On the opening night D. A. Budge presented the historical sketch of the Association, 
reading extracts and making comments. 

1902-~1903 Annual Report Pe 36. Sunday Afternoon Bible Class Committee. 
On Easter Day a special service was held at which Mr. Budge gave an address on the 
meaning of the Resurrection. E, 36 Bible Study. One of the two Bible training classes 
held every Tuesday evening was led by Mr. Budge. Subject - Haith and Conduct. E. 39 
The usual Christmas morning serwice was conducted by Mr. Budge. 

1903 — 190 Annual Report Pe 29. Sunday Afternoon Bible Class led by 
De Ae Budge had en average attendance ofsixty-three per Sunday. Subject - Gospel of 
St. John and Lessons from 01d Testenent Characters and Jewish History. Pe 30 The 
class greatly appreciates the faithful services of our beloved leader, Mr. Budge. 

190, June 13th E. 136. Minutes of Board of Directors. Resolved that in re- 
appointing Mr. Budge as Generel Secretary, the Board of Directors take this opportunity 
of congratulating him on his thirty years’ service as Secretary of the T. l. C. A. „of tho 
City of Montreal. 

During this period under his able administration, the work of the Association 
has been carried on along broad and successful lines. 


Mr. De Ae Budge 6. 


As a wise counsellor and a true friend to thousands of young men, the 
influence of his manly Christian life is shown by the development of character in 
many individual lives, as well as by his influence upon the Association policy and 
brotherhood as a while. 

The Directors are proud to know that his work end life is appreciated 
not only in Montreal, throughout the Dominion of Canada and in the United States, 
but they rejoice also to feel that in Australia and New Zealand at the present time 
he is forming Christian friendships, and is seeking by his counsel to promote and 
extend Christ's Kingdom among men. . 

They further desire to record the true Christian Spirit that has always 
dominated hie relations with the Board. His tact and faithfulness have won the 
esteem end love of each members | 

"We also fully recognize and appreciate the share which Ars. Budge has had 
in the work carried on by her husband, the many sacrifices which she has been called on 
to make, and the deep interest that she has at all times taken in the work of the 
Association". 

1905 + 1906 Annual Report E- 26 Educational. March Elst. Ur. De As 
Budge gave en “Illustrated Travel Talk on Australia". Four hundred people were present. 

1906 — 1907 Annual Report f. 13 Mr. Budge's Visit to Australia. The 
International Committee had great difficulty in finding a suitable man to go to 
‘Australia as Supervising Secretary, end what with the need of other cities in Australia, 
it asked if ur. Budge could be given leave of absence to go to assist them. Jotwi th- 
standing the great sacrifice involved in being absent from home for such a protracted 
period, Mr. Budge consented to go, sailing March Seth. He will spend the summer months - 
visiting the Association in New Zealand and Australia, returning to Montreal in 
September. 

It is an unusual tribute to the world-wide influence of our Association, 


and to the life and labours of ow beloved Seoretary, thet he should be called to 


ur. De Ae Budge 7. 


render this far-resching service to these great sister countries of the Empire. We 
are confident that in years to come it will be a matter of extreme satisfaction to 
our Association that we were thus able to co-operate in the strengthening of Assoc- 
kation work in that part of the world. Tour directors would gake this opportunity 
of expressing their deep appreciation of the long and remarkable service rendered 
by ur. Budge, not only in Montreal, but in the Association brotherhood at large. 

October 15th, 1906 Minutes of Board of Directors P, 256. Letters from 
the Adelaide and Sydney Associations were read, in relation to ur. Budge's visit 
and work, and were considered of so much importance by the Bord that they were 
ordered to be embodied in the Mimutes as follows; 

Adelaide, August 23rd, 1906. 


Mr. John M. Ross, 
President, 1. U. C. A. 
Montreal. 


Dear Sir: 


The Board of Menagement of the T. H. C. A. of Adelaide, South Australia, 
desire to convey to you some heartfelt expressions of their indebted- 
ness to Mre D. A. Budge for visiting again, and to your Committee for 
setting him free to visit us again in South Australia. All over the 
Commonwealth his services have been mighty helpful, but in no place 
have they been of more value than here in Adelaide. On his arrival, 
he set to work with characteristic energy, looked thoughtfully into 
all we were doing, met our members and committees, and at once saw 
improvements that it would be wiseto ain ate He won our confidence 
by his modesty, kindness, considerateness and charm of mannor, by 
his acuteness in grasping the situation, by his skill is making his 
conclusions clear to the minds of his hearers, by his patience in 
persuading the slower and by his power of inspiring confidence, and 
evoking prompt and vigorous action. 


He addressed our Bible Classes and Evening Meetings, and everywhere 
left behind him the impress of a mind experienced in dealing with 

the problems that confront us, madevaluable suggestions, and conferred 
lasting benefit. Perhaps the most striking evidence of what we owe to 
him if to be seen in the removal of the financial incubus that lay upon 
use An obligation of £6000 oppressed and hindered us, we had long 
thought and hoped tovremove this and had secured some promises towards 
that object. Mr. Budge met our Debt Extinetion Committee, suggested a 


Mr. De A. Budge 8. 


scheme which was at once full of business sagacity and Christian 
faith in Him “whose are the silver and the gold", developed it 

in detail, assiduously superintended its execution, and before a 
month had passed the amount needed had been raised, to the vonder 
ment of many and to the devout thankfulness of Christian hearts 
in the Association end throughout our commnity. 


We purpose at once to take important steps towards greater useful- 
ness, indeed have pledged ourselves to do so, and as years go by, 
more and more will be be seen how abiding and far-reaching have 
been the results of ur. Budgets visit and how much added efficiency 
it has meant to the important work entrusted to us, and to the young 
men of our city and state. 


Very heartily yours, 
(Signed) H. A. Wheeler, General Secretary. 


Sydney, Lijth August 1906. 


The President, 
1. . C. A. Montreal. 


My dear Sir: 


At a meeting of the Board of Management of this Institution held 
last week, the following resolution was unanimously and heartily 
carried, namely - "That the Sydney Association transmits its hearty 
thanks to the International Committee of American Associations, and 
particularly to the Montreal Association for permitting the visit of 
Mre De he Budge to the Colonies and New Zealand, places on record 
ite high appreciation of his services to the Associations, and desires 
Mre Budge to take fraternal greetings to the Montreal and other 
Institutions on the other side of the Pacific". I desire to add that 
the Board of Directors has appreciated very greatly the giving to us 
of Mre Budge, and the excellent work accomplished by him during his 
staye He will tell you all the developments of our Institutions on 
this side of the world, and we know that few will rejoice with us more 
heartily than you, brethren of America and Canada, seeing you have 
taken such a practical interest in us. We shall never forget Mr. 
Budge's visit. , 
With fraternal greetings, 

Yours sincerely, 


(Signed) John James Virgo, 
General Secretary, 


Mr. De A. Budge Ge 


October 15th, 1906 Minutes of Board of Directors, Pe 260 A letter 
was read from Mr. C. T. Williams, as Chairman of the Canadian Section of the 


International Committee, asking on behalf of the Comnittee, the services of 
Ur. Budge for four months of the coming year. Resolved that the Board agree 
as far as possible, without detriment to the regular work.“ 

1910 +1911. Annual Report E, 15. During 1910 ur. Budge led a 
Brotherhood Class every Sunday at 3, average attendance twenty-seven. He 
also led a Teacher's Training Class attended by eighteen young mene 

Pe 21. We cannot close this report without expressing our heartfelt 
thanks to our beloved General Secretary, Mre Budge, for carrying out the work 
so successfully, while nearly the whole of the year carrying on the work of two 
men after Ur. C. k. Calhoun's resignetion. His Christian Spirit has been a 
source of great inspiration to us alle Our closing word is our earnest prayer 
that he may continue in the vigour of mind and body and give us added inspiration 
for many years to cone. 

Pe 32. The Railroad Branch, Point St. Charles, Physical Department 
extend their thanks to Mre Budge for co-operation and helpful assistance during 
the yeare 

1913 + 1914 Anmial Report E. 10 The board of Directors have to 
aunounce the resignation of their General Secretary, Mr. D. Ae Budge. 

The letter written by Mr. Budge on February 2lst, 1913, announcing 
his resignation to the Board of Directors can be found in full on pages 23), and 235 
of the Minute Book of the Board for 1913. In it he says, that he is about to 
enter upon his fortieth year as General Secretary of the Association, and as he 
looks back over the past he feels that it is forever impossible for him to 

discharge the debt which he owes the Association for the privilege of this 


extended term of servicee He reviews the changes in the movement from the time 


Mr. De Ae Budge 10. 


he first knew it until the present, and says "I need not say that I have loved 
this work for men with an ever increasing passion as I have seen the pissibilities 
for service to the Church and to the world through its agency". He feels that 
the time hascome for him toresign because he has always put the interest of the 
work above those of the man, and therefore believes it is time for a younger 
yan with larger qualifications to take the leadership. Ne expresses his 
gratitude for the friendship and fellowship of the members of the Board, past 
and present, and hopes to have the privilege of working in the interests of 
the Association during the remaining years of his lifwe 

The reply in full of the Committee of the Board of Directors appointed 
to consider this is to be found on Pages 21,3 and Alt of the Minute Book for 1913, 
and is in the form of a recommendation to the Board. The substance of it is- 

1. That the resignation be accepted, the date to be fixed later, 
but that ur. Budge be asked to retein the General Secretaryship until the 
completion of the . year - 

2. That a new office in connection with the Association be created, 
to be known as Consulting Secretary, and that Mre Budge be elected to fill said 
office and to retain a seat on the Board of Directors. The duties of the office, 
which may be added to later, are designed to relieve ur. Budge entirely of the 
detailed work connec ed with the administration of the Association, the manage- 
ment of the branches and the raising of finances and carrying out of the 
forward policy of the Board except in so fer as his services may be called into 
requisition for such purposes. He is thus to be left free to act in a 
consulting and counselling capacity, and to carry on the personal contacts, and 
eblisting and training of volunteer workers for which he is so eminently fitted, 
as well as developing individual interest in Prayer and Bible Study and the 
building up of Christian character among young mene It is further hoped that 
he will accept a leave of absence of six months during the present year to be 


| Mire De Ac Budge 11. 


taken at such times and in such manner as would be most acceptable to hime From 
henceforth he is to have entire control of the time to be occupied in service of 
the Associations 

"We believe in outlining the above policy your Board of Directors 
would be taking an advance step in Association history. In relieving of the details 
of administration one whose ripe experiences, rich Christian character and influential 
and magnetic personality will be freed to give direction and stimulus to what we 
believe to be the fundamental principle and sole reason of existence of the Assoce- 
iation - to win men to Jesus Christ, end to fit and train them to yield a conse- 
crated loyalty to Him and to the extension of His Kingdom among mon". 

The resolution expressing to Mre Budge the appreciation of the Board 
for the very valuable services rendered to the Association for so many years by 
him in his capacity as General Secretary is given in full on pages 25, 27 and 21,6 
of the Minute Book of the Metropolitan Board of Directors for April 1913. on 
pages 21,5 and 249 there is also a newspaper article from the Montreal Herald of 
April 5, 1913, entitled D. A. Budge Furnished Motive Power for the T. M. C. A. in 
Montreal", and tracing his influence upon the Association for the forty years of 
his connection with ite The article contains some very interesting information 
about tho history of the Associations as well as pointing out how ur. Budge was the 
mainspring of all its achievements. 

1914 + 1915 Anmal Report P. 9 Report of Board of Directors 
Ur. Calhoun took over the Secretaryship of the Montreal T. M. C. A. on dune lst, and 
since that time Mr. D. A. Budge has acted as Consulting General Secretary. 

Sept. 16th, 1916. P. 451 Minutes of Board of Directorse ur. b. A. 
Budge made a very full statement of his trip to the railroad and other Associations 
between here and the Coast, especially mentioning the work being done by the Railroad 
Association which he was instrumental in establishing about 12 years ago. 


ur. De Ae Budge 12. 


Mre Budge had received a cable from Major Birks in England asking 
him to go Overseas and assist in the work amongst the Canadian soldiers. The Board 
was unanimous in the feeling that this would be most desirable and gave Mr. Budge 
full permission to go, leaving the final decision to hime 

1917 = 1918 Annual Report Pe 1 and 2 "Major Birks’ hands have been 
strengthened by the co-operation of Mr. Kingman, ur. Budge and ur. Corbett at the 
London offices. It has been a great satisfaction to the Board to have Mre Budge, 
our veteran Secretary, free to co-operate at the headquarters in London during this 
great development of our Canadian Association work“. 

Nove 25, 1910+ Pe 19 Minutes of Board of Directorse On behalf of 
the Board Sir John Kennedy presented a beautifully framed portrait of Mr. Budge, 
paking fitting reference to his many years of faithful, service. The portrait is 
to remain on the walls of the Building. 

Dece 18, 1922. Minutes of Board of Directorse Pe 250 
A letter was read from ur. Budge stating that in accordance with the requirements 
of the Retirement Fund he severed his official relation to the Montreal Association 
as an employed officer on August Ist, after « period of for eight years and ten 
monthse The Board learned with pleasure of the recomnendation of the Executive 
Committee that he be elected a Director, and requested that a suitable acknowledgement 
of his letter be prepared and forwarded. 

i923. Annual Report Ps 5. With the successful conclusion of the effort 
to secure four million dollars to care for the accrued liability, the Retirement Fund 
for Employed Officers was launched last July, and our veteran and much beloved 
Secretary, Ur. D. A. Budge, formally retired from professional service in the 
Association after rounding out a wonderfully rich experience of 48 years and 10 months. 
Your Board welcomed this opportunity and did themselvos the honour of electing him as 
a Director of the Association, and «a member of the Finance Committee. 


| Ar. De As Budge 13. 


1923 = 1926 = Board of Directors (3 years) 

192, + 1925 Annual Report Board of Directors report E. 11 
De Ae Budge Anniversary. On March 10th was celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of 
the entrance into T. . C. 4. Secretaryship of ur. Daniel Andrew Budge - as Rev. 
Theodore Cuyler said twenty-five years ago, "An Old Testament Prophet linked to 
a New Testament Saint". 

The significance of the event was in the fact that it gave an oppore 
tunity to pay fitting tribute to one who has given a whole life of nobly service 
to the extension of Christ's Kingdom among young mens 

It was hoped that the torch which he has held so high during all these 
years might be passed to eager young hands, and that new fires of aspiration and 
service might be kindled in the hearts and minds of the generation who have entered 
into so rich a heritage as the present members of the Montreal T. M. C. A. 
Old friends and visitors came from widely scattered cities, and cables, 
telegrams and hundreds of letters of congratilation were received from all parts 
of the world. 

The day began with an employed officers breakfast in the Central Building 
when ur. Budge was host to the staff. In the afternoon Mr. & urs. Budge were 
At Home to their many friends, and in the reception room in the Drummond Street 
Building, so bright with spring flowers, a gay spirit was in evidence. 

The banquet in the evening was attended by a large company of friends, 
including many visitors from out of towne 

The presentations of the evening included a large basket of roses for 
Mrse Budge, a substantial cheque and a huge birthday cake with fifty candles, all 
lighted. 

Perennial youth and unfailing faith in three generations has enabled 
ur. Budge to keep step with the world's onward march, and his life of service has 
been richly blessed with abiding friendships". 


Wire De A. Budge . liye 


Two pages in the Minute Book of the Board of Directors Meetings for 192), are 
devoted to newspaper reports of ur. Budge's Jubilee Celebrations, pages 35); and 355. 
There was an editorial in the Gazette telling how he came to be a T. M. C. A. Secretary, 
and outlining his career and influence for fifty years in Canada and the world. 
These eight articles contain much useful material. 

June 21, 1926 Minutes of Board of Directors Pe 2. A letter wasread from 
Ur. Budge asking resignation from the Board. It was left over until September. 

Sept. 20, 1926. Minutes of Board of Directors. Mr. Budge's resignation was 
accepted, and he became an honorary member of the Board. 

Oct. 19, 1926. Minutes of Board of Directors E: 7+ There is a resolution 
congratulating Mr. & urs. Budge on the celebration of their fiftieth wedding 
anniversary. 


1926 « 1927 Executive Committee 
Building Comittee 


1926 - 1929 Honorary Chairman of Campaign Executive 

1933 = 1934 Annual Report FP. 18 and 19. In connection with the passing of 
Mire De Ae Budge, the Association has paid the following tribute to his life and 
memory. "RESOLVED - That the members of the Metropolitan Board of Directors of the 
YeMeCeAs have learned wirh profound regret of the death on February 13th of ur. 
Daniel Andrew Budge. Ur. Budge was born in 1851, the year in which the first 
Association in North America was founded in Montreal. Inarly life he became 
identified with the Association Movement, maintaining a close connection with, and 
helpful participation in, its work until the day of his death. 

For thirty-nine years he as the honoured and beloved Secretary of this Assoc 
iation, subsequently acting as Consulting Secretary until his retirement in 1922. 
| The rapid growth in service and influence of the Montreal Agsociation is due in a ly 
large measure to his untiring and devoted efforts, and to his wise and inspiring 
leadership. His idealism was contagious, and his aim in life wes the development of 
the finest type of manhood. 


Ar. De Ay Budge 15. 


“Throughout the entire brotherhood, ur. Budge was well and favourably known, 
and his advice and counsel were sought and highly prized. His contribution to the 
development of the Association in Canada, his relation to the work of the International 
Committee, and his keen appreciation and helpful attitude to the Foreign Work are 
gratefully recalled. His services to the Association in Australia and New Zealand, 
and his several visits to Great Britain both before and during the Great War, brought him 
in helpful relationship to many of the overseas Associations and leaders. 

| He identified himself with a wide range of activities in the interests of 
the social and religious welfare of the community in which he lived, denoting his 
experience and talents unreservedly in giving effective leadership to the many 
financial campaigns for philanthropic objects. 

His compelling personality and deeply religious spirit won for him an 
abiding place in the hearts and affections of literally ena of young men with 
whom he came in contact. Though his voice is now silent, his life yet speaks, his 
influence still remains, and the true value of his life's service is indelibly 
written upon the hearts and lives of many who gladly acknowledge his inspiring 
ministrations. A great number of these men have passed on, but we, his more intimate 
associates, whose hearts have been knit with his - while we rejoice at his entrance 
into the presence of Him Whom he served so long and faithfully - desire to express 
our profound regret at the passing of a life so aundantly fruitful, and so fully lived". 

Mre Budge left the Association $1,000.00. 

1936. Minutes of Board of Directors, July. On July 28th, 1936, the 
Association was notified by the Royal Trust Company that under the provision of the 
will of the late William Gilman cheney, it had been bequeathed a one-twentieth share 
in the residue of the Estate. The will provided that this shall be an endowment 
to be known as the D. 4. Budge Memorial Fund, the annual revenue whereof to be used 
by the said Association as it may deem best." This important bequest came from the 


son of the late Mr. Gilman Cheney, for many years manager of the Canadian Express Co., 


Mr. De As Budge 16. 


to whom'in the early days the late Mr. P. A. Budge was stenographer and secretary. 
Upon the death of ur. Cheney Senior, the late ire D. A. Budge became co-exeoutor 
of his Estate with his son, Mre William Cheney, the donor of this generous bequeste 
In Mr. Budge's papers when he died, the following letter was found, dated October 
27 th, 1927. “I have passed my 69th milestone today! Before leaving Montreal I 
meant to have told you the following, but the opportunity did not arise. In my 
will, as it stands now with the Royal Trust Company, I have given an emount to the 
1. M. C. A. = the interest from this fund goes in any direction the Association may 
determine, but the fund itself is to be knownas the b. A. Budge Memorial Fund. I 
only hope you will not object to this". 

The Memorials Committee have recommended thet a memorial tablet to Mr. Budge 
be erected, that Association Hall be re-named, and that $1,000.00 be set aside from 
the annual income of the Cheney Bequest. For a tims this sum vill be used annual ly 
for D. A+ Budge Memorial Scholarships in the evening division of the Sir George Williams 
College, and for the purpose of selected books for our libraries. 

1939+ The Memorials Committee were responsible for erecting two memorisls 
in memory of the late D. 4. Budgee The first was a tablet in stone placed in the 
Hell of Remewbrance, the second a bronze teblet in connection with the reneming of 
Association Hall as the D. A. Budge Memorial Hall. Both of these tablets were 
unveiled at an impressive service of dedication on December llth 1938, the service 
being conducted by the Reverend C. Leslie Pidgeon in t he presence of members of the 
- family and friends of the late ir. Budge. 

The wording of the tablet in the Mall of Remembrance is as follows: 
In Memory 
of 
Daniel Andrew Budge 
1851-1933 
General Secretary of this Associa- 
tion for thirty-nine years 
Whose vision and geal laid 
broad foundations for the 
Young Men's Christian Association in 


Montreal and influenced the extension 
of the Movement throughout the World. 


Mr. „D. A. Budge 17. 


The following further information about Mr. Budge is obtainable in the 


files of the Metropolitan Office, Montreal. 


le 


2. 


3. 


lye 


50 
be 


7. 


Ur. De Ae Budge - Daniel Andrew Budge, Born April 16th, 1851, 
at Newmarket, Ont. (2 typewritten pages) 


Deniel Andrew Budge. April 16th, 1851] + February 13th, 1933. 
(Typewritten page) 

Letter from Charles 8. Falconer and Son, Wellington, New Zealand, 
to W. M. Birks, Eeqe, in New zealand, Oct. 21st, 1936 
relating to ur. Budge's visit to New Zealand. (2 typewritten pages) 


De Ae Bu An Appreciation - . J. Holliday, Montreal, April 6th, 
192, (U typed pages) 


De A. Budge (13 typed pages) 


Twenty-Pifth Anniversary of Ur. PD. A. Budge held May 16th, 1899, 
Association Hall. Newspaper articles in condensed for (7 pages) 


Sheaf of newspaper clippings referring to Mre Budge's death. 


August 23rd, 191,0. 


