REPORT ON "Camp (Phunderbird" 
August 6 - 13th - 1943 


Central Branch Period 


The first session of Cengral Y.M.C-A. boys at Camp Thunderbird opened on 
Friday, August 6th with an enrolment of staff and campers totalling twenty-two. 


The camp was under the direction of A. T. Dodds, who was assisted by Simon 
Toye, a leader of many years experience at Central Branch and a scout leader at 
Camp Tamaracouta. Mrs. Dodds attended as dietician and cooke 


Five older boys went as assistant leaders; George Staples, Joseph St. Dennis 
(bugler), John Atkinson, Don MacPherson and Ken Young. 


Although none of these boys were over 14, they all rendered good service. 
They received a reduced fee in consideration of their services and in recognition 
of their leadership at the Indoor Camp. 


Four tents were used and camp activities and organization were based ou these 
units. The following boys participated. 


Tent # 1 = Leader — Ken Young, Stuart Watson: Donald Allen: Fred Copley: 
Ron Urquhart. 


fent # 2 = Leader Don Macpherson; Gerald Degras Ross Staples; Frank Staples; 
Peter Eastop. 


Tent # 3 = John Atkinson ( Leader) : James McIsaac; Donald McIsaac: James 
t Martin; Norman Fabese 


Tent # 4 — Leader = Joe St. Denis; George Staples: James Negras; Ede LeBlanc. 
The daily routine of the camp generally followed this outline. 


7e50am » Rising - wash and dip. 
8.15 — Breakfast 
9.15 - Tent Inspection 


9.50 ~- llan pe Camp Projects. 
11.00011.45 — General Swim 
12-15 = Dinner 
1.00pm —- 2.00 Rest Hour 
2.00 — 4.00 _ Program 
4.00 = 4.45 - General Swim 


5-50 Suppere 


6.30 - 8-350pm — Free Period 

9.00 - Camp Fire 

9.30 Bihle Reading by tent leader 
9.35 = Taps - Lights out. 


GENERAL PROGRAM ITEMS. 


Hikes were held to near by woodse A life Saving instruction class of 
eight boys was given drill and practice in methods of rescue twice a day.e The 
camp-fire site was reconstructed and five camp fire programs were held. The 
c00k=hcuse benches and signs were painted.e Work parties were sent to collect 
fire wood on the nearby islands. Several conducted excursions were held to 
Kozy Korners- Boating parties around the island were a daily attraction, but due 
to the fact that there were only two row-boats for twenty-two people, this sport 
was limited. Games of Commando's volley ball and nature study occupied much 
of the free time the boys had on the island. A brief Chapel Service was held 
on Sunday. Leaders’ meetings and discussi ns were held frequently during the 


rest periode 


A number of visitors came é@ach day to the island end each in turn was given 
a tour of inspection. Mr. and Mrs. Nurse, son and daughter of Montreal attended 
several times and on their last visit brough homemade cookies and dessert for - 
all the boys at camp which was very much appreciated. Altogether thirty-two 
people visited us of whom three remained.for meals. 


RECO.MENDATIONS : 


Further equilpment>féruthe kitchen is required and serving dishes for use 
on dining room tables is needed- Many kitchen utensils listed must have been 
stolen as the supply was limited. The stove should be checked and repaired as 
the oven could not be used and did not supply adaquate heat for quick cooking. 
An outside fireplace wan sonst eted and used exclusively for cooking during 


the last five days of camp. 


All supplies and necessary equipment should be purchased if possible in 
the city and taken to camp. Costs are much higher in the nearby stores and 
selection is limited. Purchasing, looking after the food stores and account- 
ing should be the responsibility of one person for the entire seatone 


Additional boats are needed, a screen door on kitchen and a cheap ice box 
would help greatly to lessen the cost of food and add to the enjoyment of 
campinge 

Despite the cold and wet wather encountered the boys enjoyed the camp. 


There were several eases of homesickness, James McIsaac who was diagnosed in 
time for him to reach the city where that evening he underwent an appendix 


operations 


In a small camp of this nature there is an excellent opportunity to know 
the personal problems of the boys, and there is a need for this type of camp 


within the close range of the citye 


BUDGET 
‘Receipts Corer eeenrereonereescccesseseeeseess epane00 


Donations covecessccasecssvececcncccsvncscceseesie00 


EXPENDITURES 
COOK. sevcseccvccerecenecsesccvcecisecsseccceeezle00 
Neoduriangaidiccc dca teri cess ean rian 
wrass partial leans éacccsdsedausssdedesseessnene 8.70 
Miscellancousssevesecveseseseveseccscscecaccee 8042 


LOCAL roccsoceseenvesenvesessnvcccesseveesseneGhidiad 


Average cost was l4$¢ per person per meal for food. 
(Fees were $7.00 a week with a reduction to the leaders.) 


A. Te. Dodds 
Camp Director. 


