a 


CAM 5 
TALUS DER BIRD 


CAMP FOR- BOYS 
ON 
AN ISLAND IN MILLE RIVER 


20 MILES FROM MONTREAL — 


Operated by Central YMCA 


Aug 7 to Aug 14, 1943. 


CAMP ‘THUNDERBIRD 


A eamp for boys who are members of tthe Central Y.M.C.A. , 
twelve to fifteen years of age. The camp is situated on an 
island in the Mille Isle River, near Ste. Eustache, 20 miles 
from Montreal. Nearby forest land, a large field for games, 
the vast array of islands in the river to be explored and the 
romance of living on a small isla nd itself will make this 
camping experience a memorable es | 

EQUIPMENT: The boys will sleep in tents which are pitched on 
high* land. ‘There are wooden floors in each tent. Each boy has 
a straw mattress. There is a kitchen and dining tent. Small 
games and craft equipment will be available on the island, and 
there are sufficient row boats for all to spend a good deal of 
time on the river, fishing and boating. 

SAFETY REGULATIONS: All boating periods» trips, hikes and swim- 
ming periods will be supervised by the Director and leaders. A 
well stocked first aid kit is at the camp and nearby doctors 
are on call in case of an emergency. The spring-well has been 


tested . cnd'fresh food supplies will be brought in daily. All 


= 


attending mist have their beginner ‘s swimming certificates 5 
or equivelant ~ This is necessitated because of the great t&se 


of boats at the camp. 


FEES The fee (which merely pays the cost of food and up~acp) 
is set to appeal to the boy of modest means. It is $7.00 a 
week, payable in advance. The camp period is for one week, Aug. 
7-14. Total capacity is twenty-five so that early registration 


should be made. Registration forms are provided at the office. 


TRANSPORTATION 
The camp is reached by the Provincial Transport Bus, fare will 


be 48g return. ‘the boys arrive and leave amp on Saturday. 


WHAT TO BRING 

A list of equipment that each boy is to bring will be given. 
at the time of registration. Ration books must be . ough to 
Mr. .oids at the Cen trgl "Y" on Thursday, before the boys 


go to camp. 


STATE 
Camp Thunderbird is directed by Mi. A. T. Dodds, 
Associate Boys ! Work Sceretary of the Central Y.M.C.A. 
All applications: and “enquiries should be made to him.’ 


Mrs. Dodds will be the camp dietitian and will assist 
the director in many ways. 


Acarefully selected group of older boys will act as 
tent léaders. 


MATL ADDRESS 
' Camp Thunderbird, 
efo Mme. Lupi 
“Ste. Rose West, 
Quebec. 


ENQUIRIES AT 

Central Y.M.C.A. 
1441 Drummond St., 
MA 8331 


