OTTAWA 
CANOE TRIPS 


FOR OLDER BOYS 
15 TO 18 YEARS 


FROM 


ILE PERROT 
ON 4: 
OTTAWA CITY 


AND RETURN 


Be 


Operated 
by 
THE MONTREAL Y.M.C.A. 


THE ROUTE 


During the early history of Canada the Ottawa River 
was the main highway to the great unexplored hinterland 
that lay beyond the settlements of Montreal and Lachine. 


Up its broad bosom went the early explorers, the 
missionaries and later the settlers. Champlain came near 
loosing his life on the Long Sault Rapids and Adam Dollard 
and his small band of Frenchmen saved the settlements at 
Lachine and Montreal from the Iroquois hordes by his heroic 
stand near the present site of Carrillon. There is hardly a 
spot on the river bank that has not been camped on by 
Hurons, Iroquois, early explorers of Coeur de Bois. Recap- 
turing the historical atmosphere of the River is one of the 
experiences that awaits the “Y” voyaguers. 


To-day there are many places of interest that await 
the traveller. The Long Sault Rapids are a sight well worth 
seeing. Going by canoe through the Grenville Canal and 
its seven locks is an experience to be remembered. Calling 
in at little towns, looking over the ruins of old docks, visiting 
lumber mills and then, of course, Ottawa city itself with the 
Parliament buildings, museum and other places of interest. 
These are some of the opportunities that the Ottawa Canoe 
trippers have to enjoy a real out-of-doors holiday. 


Who May Go 

Any young man fifteen to eighteen years of age. 
While canoe trip experience is helpful it is not essential. 
Those going on the trip must be able to swim at least 100 
yards. 


Equipment 

One canoe only will be used on the trip. Four trips 
in all will be taken during the summer commencing on 
saturdays and lasting for a two week period. The canoe is 
' nineteen feet in length and is made by the Chestnut Canoe 


Co. It is fifty one inches in beam. Numerous tests in this 
canoe and many trips over the Ottawa route have shown 
this craft to be extremely seaworthy. This canoe holds seven 
paddlers and the adult leader. 

The YMCA will provide, paddles, ground sheets and, 
of course, such equipment as tents, cooking utensils, etc. 

Each person going on the trip must provide in addi- 
tion to clothing and personal equipment, ie. towels, tooth 
brush etc., three blankets, a sun helmet and sun goggles. 
A complete list of equipment is sent on receipt of the 
application. 


When Trips will Leave 
The trips will leave on the following dates— 
Saturday June 29th. 
Saturday July 13th. 
Saturday July 27th. 
Saturday Aug. 10th. 

The trips will leave from the YMCA Camp on Ile 
Perrot. Those going on the trip will go by train to the Camp 
on Saturday afternoon. The trippers will become familiar 
with the canoe and equipment on Sunday and leave the Camp 
on Monday morning. The party will return to the camp on 
Friday two weeks later and back to Montreal on the Saturday 
or Sunday. 

Cost of the Trip 

The total cost of the trip will be thirty dollars. This 

includes transportation from Montreal to Camp and return. 


Leadership 

The trips will be supervised by Mr. R. H. Hanagan, 
director of the YMCA Junior Camping program. Mr. 
Hector Van Reet will be in charge of the Canoe parties. 


Registrations 
Each trip will be limited to seven young men, so those 
planning to go should put their applications in early. 


APPLICATION FORM 
OTTAWA CANOE TRIP 


Mr. R. H. Hanagan 
Camp Office 

YMCA Drummond St. 
Montreal 


Please register me for the Ottawa Canoe Trip to 
leave the Canoe Trip base at Camp Perrot on the following 
date. 

Satutday. 205.01 dee ine LL iepensid. 


Enclosed find the amount of five dollars to be applied 
on the canoe trip fee. 


INBRO: FF ss ccatssecepensapeprotess ge fo 2 ae a 
AEs. cit erat Hel gh tn teenisipisasiyinn Wy Cuts od Senergsveqgh 
SEEIOL.ss0.sseecenn Gtade.....iae.0s. Bigs) Sty sabe Section was: 
Gatideing Be perience iia ating edie. chimeremmnn sagan 
Swimming ability. State distance in yards...........000. SEI Sores ah 
CR 5263. OE ATS A. A Ge scene 
SEQMAEMEE. ...:cccaspvaleactetesssath comeeesntdconas 

Sigmature Gimearent,........:5..csciscinsssacackentuameneta 


Parties will leave the Ile Perrot Base for two week 

trip to Ottawa on the following dates: 
Saturday June 29th returning to Montreal Sat. July 13th 
és July 13th Bie *  Vootabeyi arte 
July 27th 4 7 ‘ ” Aug. 10th 
«Aiea, Meat ied) Footbed. ") . Ampaadth 


