(aM 


1947 
Report of the Montreal YMCA 


Camp Perrot for Boys & Girls. 


To the Board of 
Management. 


Gentlemen:~ 
Introduction 


The fourth season of the YMCa 
Camp on Ile Porrot was a stimulating experience for 
campers, staff and other adults. It was not with- 
out its problems, Many of the difficulties arose 
when the sudden expansion required additional equip-~ 
ment and a necessary enlargement of the staff. Our 
resources were often taxed to the limit, but with 
the steady and willing co-operation of all the per- 
sonnel connected with the Camp, including the camp- 
ers, we were able to conclude a Successful season 
without serious difficulties, 


I feel the camp has reached a 
degree of maturity as far as possible with the pre- 
sent equipment. The numbers attending have greatly 
increased. Many new outlets for using the camp 
property have been developed. The camp acted as 
host to 260 Campers, 15 other organized parties, 
and an average of 80 parents and visitors each Sun- 
day during the camping season. 


The formal camping season was 
Open for a period of nine weeks beginning Wednese 
day Juno 25th. ana closing August 27th. The statis- 
tical report as attached, will reveal the extensive 
use made of the property during 1947, 


Since the close of the camp in 
1946, many people recognized the desirability of 
the surrounding area and as a result, a colony of 
cottagers have bought and erected private dwellings 
On the adjacent property. While this invasion of 
neighbours has been thrust upon us, they in no way 
interfered with any phase of our program or activ-~ 
ities during the season, still they left a deep 


ae. ae 


impression that we should at once look to our fen~ 
ces anc expand to the East before the camp is en- 
closed, 


The exceptionally high flood 
waters of the Spring, altered the contour of our 
shoreline, swept away many fine trees, scattered 
the beach, eroded the cliff and left the cabin 
near the shore in a precarious position - it now 
must be moved before the beginning of another sea- 
son, if it is to be saved ~= However, before the 
formal camping began, the water receded and by the 
middle of the year our fine sand beach began to re- 
appear. | 


The values of the property, 
not only in material worth, but physical and spirit- 
ual are, I am sure, understood by those who have 
visited the site. With the necessary vision and 
encouragement this area can be developed into a 
broad program spot, easily accessible to many more 
YMCA activities than it at present enjoyse 


CAMP PERROT 


Statistics. 
1947 
1946 , 1947 1947 1947 
Branch Boys & Girls Quota Boys Girls 
(weekors) (weekers) Actual Total’ 
Southwestern 107 120 98 735 Weal 
Ne De Gs 54 60 32 16 48 
East. Comm. 7 10 20 0 20 
North 37 100 77, 13 90 
Central 102 75 73 0 73 
Lachine 120 100 66 21 87 
Westmount 33 40 36 5 41 
Ptee Ste Chase 19 20 cS i@) wo 
Rosemount 0 20 20 16 36 
Camp Office 73 0 107 21 128 
International 5 40 2 4 6 
557 585 544 169 TES 


A "“weeker" is a camper attending camp for a period of one week 


(Registration for Boys and Girls were not accepted after July 


4the, 
ached.) 


Total Noe 
” 


NUMBER of CAMPERS b 
July Seleeees 68 


ul 9 eseeelLOl 
bd 16 ceesoe 9S Less 
Ms 23 evvce 90 One 
Me 350 ee 90 Two 
Auge Beseee 85 Thre 
Aj Four 
20 Five 
a Six 
of different Boys that 
" ” Gi rls " 


WEEKLY PERIODS (BOYS 


1947 as more than the capacity at that time had been ren 


Length of Stay of Campers 


Boys 
than 1 week 4 
week 15 
: 84 
e" “29 
v ar 
" 8 
W . Came kie 
(iar de® 185, 
attended camp = 185 
tt tt a: 75 
260 


ORGANIZATIONS (not included above) THAT CAME 


St. James 


TO CAMP & USED 
the Apostle, . 


Anglican Church picnic 
Central YMCA So-Ed Club (2) 
Lachine Protestant Churches 
picnics (three) 


Ptee Ste 


Charles Young People 


Barn Dances (2) 


Mtl. Area 


Hi-Y Conference 


(three days) 


Ste. Anne 
S.Se 


de Bellevue Protestant 


Lachine "Y" Crippled Children 
North Branch "Y"=Y.M,. Council 
"y" Camp Committee 


Attendance 


FACILITIES 


(150) Central "yY" 2 
(-85) North Branch (2 
{ Pte. St. Chase(é 
(375) Ne De Ge (2% 
: ' Eastern Comm. (1 
( 90) Westrount Bi 


1s 


Gir 


tphust 
boy 
~f 

Gury 


BOYS OVERNIGHT GROUPS 


gro 


ups 
v 


lg et a eR ce 
( 35) Each group averaged 7 


people = 


Attendance 


6 


3 


Actual(weekers 


zo % 
Su 
x 3 


2¢vai 40 


foo KL * 206 


- 4 « 


NEW EQUIPMENT 


The development of the camp property 
has proceeded along a definite long range plan as out= 
lined by the Camp Board some time ago. This year, sev~ 
eral phases of expansion program were necessary in ad- 
vance of the proposed time-table. These included, four 
new tent platforms, completing the upper and lower tent 
circles, and 32 new bunks, similar to the type used in 
the other tents. Extra dishes, cutlory, tables, benches 
and many other small items were also required and pur- 
chased when the increased accommodation was necessarye 


Four new boats proved a welcome and 
valuable addition to the aquatic program. The boats 
were used not only during the boating periods, but pro- 
ved their worth as pilot and life-guarding craft dure 
ing the three daily swims. as tho high water of this 
Spring swept away all of our approach to the dock, it 
was necessary this year to re-build the steps and most 
of the foundation. In trying to do this job at the 
least possible exponse, we did not put as strong sup 
ports as required in the building and as a result, after 
three severe storms, we were forced to erect the wharf 
again. 


With so much playing space available 
we also purchased a rugby football, baseballs, bats and 
volleyball for use in the field. These items of sporte 
ing equipment provided many times their value in fun 
and active playe 


After attempting to drain the land 
between the kitchen and dining hall, we found that 
the best method was to sprinkle fine crushed stone 
around the surface. This eliminated the need of dig- 
ging drains to take off the surface water, the clay 
soil in the area being such that it did not absorb 
the water after a rain. 


The kitchen stove, in previous years, 
a constant source of annoyance to the cooking staff, 
was in the early part of this year converted into use 
for coal, an electric blower attached, the chimney 
stack extended and a new type top, called a vacuim 
cap added. However, the foreman in charge of the 
alterations, after looking over the situation, said 
that, complete satisfaction would not be gained un- 
less we cut down the huge Elm tree that over~shadowed 
the chimney draft. Rather than cut down a beautiful 


may. eee 


tree (for they are limited on the property), we accept- 
ec the new chimney and the stove operated reasonably 
well 95% of the time. 


PROGRAM 


To give a detailed account of the var- 
ied program carried on this summer would be an exhauste 
ive record running fa%o a good many more pages than 
this cntire report therefore, in this short space, we 
shall merely summarize the ganeral weekly program and 
give the highlights of the special programs conducteds 
Swimming, boating and canoe trips seemed, as usual, to 
attract the most interest. 


Monday mornings throughout the camp 
season was always "Breakfast Out", when the campers 
secmred their supplies from the kitchen and in front 
of their own tent, cooked their meal. Tuesday, camp 
fire night, Wednesday, "Fires-of Friendship" conduct- 
ed seperately by each tent to greet thenew campers. 
Thursday, tent projects. Friday, tho trip to the 
village, Saturday, hike day and campfire and Sunday, 
the Chapel Service and visitors day, Monday, Wednes- 
day and Friday afternoons were craft periods for woods 
work, clay modelling, art, archery and gardening. A 
few of the outstanding events were; Olympic Day, 
Indian Day, Camperd Day, the Christmas and New Years 
Parties, tho Hayrides, Regattas, Stunt Nights, Camp- 
fires, otc. 


Eight over-night canoe trip parties for 
the boys were conducted to Cascade Island and one two 
day trip circled Perrot Island, while numerous other 
short trips were taken to nearly points, Beauharnois, 
the Canal and island. The privelege of going on such 
trips, while restricted to only the highest qualified 
swimmers was alyays popular and the one canoe suitable 
for such excursions was always in action. 


CHAPEL 


The site of the Chapel was this year 
transfered to the beautiful grove of trees in the 
middle of the property. Through careful arrangement 
we were able to mark out an area that can accommodate 
100 people with ease and comfort without in any way 
disturbing or removing any of the trees or shrubs, 
Rough hewn logs were placed on the ground for seats 
and a general plan drawn up for the construction of 
an outdoor Chapel. Anyone who has ever had the oppor-~ 
tunity of attending one of these services will testify 


to the beauty and quiet dignity the spot gives to our 
Christian emphasis programe: 


Mr. W. C. Holiday, Secretary on the 
Montreal Association, proved to be invaluable as a 
“source man in preparing a standard set of evening de~ 
votions for use of the counsellors in their tent 
GroupSe These brief, to the point, religious messag- 
es, a fusion of the new with the old, are the type of 
reading that had a great appeal to the boys and really 
emphasized our Christian program. Mr. Holliday was 
also kind enough to spend one Sunday vith us and speak 
at the Chapel Service. Other "Y" men we are indebted 
to for their Sunday talks are: Mr. Robt. Smith of 
Southwestern, Roy Shepherd of N.D.G., Mr. H. C. Clinch 
of Westmount YMCA, Mr. 3. Hammond of the Camp Board 
and Mre Be Rajaiah of Indiae 


All Chapel service collections were con-~ 
tributed to the World Youth Fund. er 


HEALTH & SAFETY 


The general health situation during 1947 
was very good. The fact that we were not Able to obs 
tain the services of a registered nurso until the month 
of August speaks volumes for the staff. They all pith 
ehed in on occasions and to2o0k over the hospital duties 
and care of the small cuts, headaches and minor ail+ 
ments, besides their regular duties, until the arrival 
of the very efficient and-capable, Miss Zlizabeth 
Coully.e 


Dr. Kelso of St. Annes gave unstint- 
ingly of his time and skill when we were without pro- 
per medical supervision in the first five weeks of 
campe Dr. Kelso arranged to visit us each Wednesday 
On arrival of the new campers and gave each boy a 
Physical and health check-up. He also made a special 
visit during the week to inspect and advise us on any 
case that baffled cur knowledge, We are deeply in-~ 
debted to Dr. Kelso for keeping a watchful eye on our 
wards, his friendly interest in the camp and his read- 
iness, at any hour, to respond, whenever we consulted 
hin. 


FUBLICITY & PROMOTION 


This years excellent folder, was, I - 
feel sure one of the major reasons why we were flood- 
ed with applications so early in the season. We found 
it necessary to limit the number going to camp shortly 
after the opening date, then on J‘ily 4th. had to re-~ 
fuse further applications for enrolment for the rest 
of the season. 


The folders were mailed out to all o14 
campers, and distributed in many local schools and the 
YMCA'ts by the branch secretaries. Branches were also 
provided with posters. 


Several minor revisions, I feel are 
necessary and should be considered for inclusion in 
next ycars booklet. These suggestions are in the Re-= 
commendation list on this report. 


The Westward Rotary Club again sent a 
number of boys and girls to the Camp. The majority of 
these came from Lachine and were selected by Mr. H. 
Patterson of the Lachine YMCA. Mr. Duckworth of the 
N.eD.Ge, YMCA as chairman of the Youth Service Commit~ 
tee, made the necessary arrangements with the Rotary 
Clube 


GARDEN 


The garden at Perrot this year was very 
late in planting, due to the very wet Spring months, 
and as a result, the crop was as a whole, too late to 
be of advantage to the camp. 


Careful consideration of the camp needs, 
and expected return from the garden should be mado for 
another year and the project greatly modified. 


STATION WAGON 


The acquistion of the Station-Wagon 
formerly used at Kanawana, aided greatly in the se- 
curing of supplies, cut down immensely in transport- 
ation costs, allowed us to buy produce an@ foods at 
lower costs in a wider market and proved invaluable 
in many cases of emergency. 


STAFF 


This report would not be complete without 
grateful words of thanks to all those who contributed 
towards making the season a success, 


One must first mention the Staff and Couns 
sellors, for upon their shoulders rested the respon- 
sibility of planning program, dealing with the daily 
problems that arise and maintaining the ideals and 
standards of the camp throughout the summer months. 


Once again we feel safe in saying that 
"never before was so much done, by so few, for so 
many" as the members of the staff contributed this 
yeare 


Alden Wheeler, a Navy Veteran, student at 
the McGill School of Physical Educagion, this year, 
was the “rogram Director and rendered commendable 
service and was most helpful particularly in the 
swimming and aquatic program. 


Mr.e Rudolph Lehrs as Camp Manager, did an 
excellent job, not only in the administration of the 
accounts, purchasing and general duties related to 
such an ardupus position, but his even disposition 
and variety of skills in program made his presence a 
valuable asset to the camp. 


Miss Zlizabeth Colly, the Camp Nurse during 
August, set a very high standard of cheerfulness, 
cleanliness, efficiency and competence in her duties 
at camp. No praise is too high for the wonderful way 
she was able to fit into the camp life and contribute 
to ite 


Peter Sykes returned for his third ycar, 
‘this season as Senior Counsellor and Director of the 
Out Tripse His pleasant manner an@ calm efficiency 
added a great deal to the camp programs 


Russell Bell, with his jovial manner and 
ever Willingness to assume new duties and respone- 
sibilities as an seasoned Senior Councellor, was ever 
helpful in numerous situationse 


Terry Seaman, an outstanding pianist return+ 
ed to the camp for his third season. This ever wel-~ 
come contribution in the field of music and song- 
leading always stimulated the campers and called for 


- 2-= 


encores, For some time he also took over hospital 
duties an@ added further lustre to his laurelse 


Mrs Patricia Parr returned for her fourth 
year as Chef of the camp but left shortly after the 
opening of the Girls't Camp. She was succeeded by the 
very caja ble, efficient cook, Mame. La Tour who 
consistently produced good appetizing meals. 


The splendid voluntecr services of the 
Counsellors deserves special mention and thanks. They 
maintained the highest standards of service and camp- 
ing in their duties during the seasone 


Ray Bowman Ken Bernham 

Guy Jutras Malcolm Brownridge 
Rene Chabout Robin Matheson 
Gilbert Young George Ward 
Charles Gaitens Fred Collins 

John Smith Ian Smith 

Harry Pederson Albert Gaitens 
Nick Assley Alex Maciviez 


We are also thankful for the assistance and 
leadership given by Gerald Wright, Al. Twintarney, 
Gordon Mackey and the members of the Camp Board who 
frequently visited with us and gave their support and 
aid. 


To Miss Mae Houghton and Miss Vera Ruther~- 
ford of the staff city office goes a4 special word of 
appreciation. Their devotion to the camp as evidenced 
through long hours of work and @iplomatic handling of 
delicate situations was most thoroughe 


GIRLS CAMP 


yy, Dodds acted as Resident 
» This was Mrs Dodds 
tive capacity but not 
ience or direction of 
s Dedds had @ great 
2001 groups and Churcly 


i a] 
Director of the Giris 
first year in an adnini 
her first cne in camp e iy 
girls work, Freviously, Mrs 
deal of wok with Sunday Sch 
projects. 


Girls Camp opened on August 6th. 
and ended August 27th., Curing which time we had 
75 campers, who had the good fortune to have ideal 
vamping weather, ‘there was only one rainstorm to 
break the very warm, sunny days. Judging from the 
splendid teamwork of Staff, Conneellors and Campers, 
I feel we had @ very =nppy canp life. We had many 
visitors at camp. Mr. Owens and other Camp Com- 
mittesc members paid an official visit to the camp~ 
On August 21st. An average of 80 parents and vis- 
itors came on Sundays when wo served afternoon tea 


out on the lawn. 
PROGRAM 


Swimming was very popular through- 
out the camping period dkne to the very capable ins- 
tructvess, Marilyn Mathews Some canoe trips were 
made to Cascades Islend, Grafts were held three 
afternoons eof c°ch week when the campers had a 
choice of canoeing instruction, dancing, dramatics, 
clay modeliing. and archer Carol Hammond had an 
rdprvislly Boot dance group which met in the Barn 
for instruction and those canpers demonstrated their 
skill on two occasions for evening programs in the 
Barn and at the Closing Banguet. Much priase is due 
to Carol for the capable way sue handled this project. 
Jane Hammond shoved particular aptitude for Dramatics 
and did somo fine work with her group which also took 
part in the program for the Closing Banquet. Archery 
was taken by Phil Dunn of the Chatoauguay Archery 
Club. Thore were many group games and baseball in 
addition to which were special features such as; 
Campfires (in particular, tho openine and closing 
Torchlight parades); indiviéual Fires of Friendship; 
stunt and amateur nights: dramatics night; dance 
recital in the Barn: pyjama perade; campers day; 
backwards day; masquerade; olympic swimming meet; 
track and field meet; movies; Christmas Party; New 
Year's Party; hay ride; Indian Night; Saturdays all 
day hike; Monday mornings breakfast out; log din- 
ners; closing banque, By popular vote, Ann Avison 
was elected tie best counsellor for 1947 and Helen 
McLean, the best camper 


cs was held each Sunday in 
the camp grove of trees 11:00 AM with Staff mem- 
bers in charge. The Record Flayor donated by Mr. 
Hammond, was used at all Chapel services and helped 


nme nt On 3 
VNaADS OPV. 
~+ 

y) 


« £2 = 


greatly in creating a reverend worship in the out.- 
doors. An average of ten girls went to early Mass 
at the Village Church at 7:30 AM each Sunday and all 
Campers attended the Camp Chapel Service. 


HEALTH 


No praise is too high for the Camp 
Nurse, Miss Elizaboth Colly who examined the girls 
at frequent intervals. The nurse helped in setting 
a standard for cleanliness in the washing of dishes, 
tea towels and dining tables. These were all ins« 
pected aftor cach meal. 


STAFF 


Marilyn Mathews was in charge of swims 
ming and water-front and helped with other phases of 
camp activities, in all, she exhibitea talent and ens 
thusiasm. She was an invaluablo staff member, 


Carol and Jane Hammond, who were Prow 
eran Assistants, did splendid work anda their many 
skills in this field made them also invaluable in the 
life of the camper, 


When camp opened we had seven Counsel~ 
lors: Bess Clements, Gladys Hincheliffe, June Petrie 
Earla Taylor, Alberta Gilbert, Mary Bullock, Anne 
Avison. Brenda Lamb ana Maurien Mears, both of whom 
were campers, cven made Counsellors, & position they 
filled very well. The second week of camp, Carol Dal-« 
lison and Joan Henley came as additional Counsellors, 
Fat Neason, a camper, was made a spare Counsellor, 


When Mrs Pair withdrew from camp as 
Chef, the campers, Counsellors and staff helped me in 
every way to prepare the meals for fivo days until we 
Secured Mme. La Tour, who proved to be &@ very effic- 
tent cook, 


The great part which the Counsellors 
accepted during the entire camp exemplified a high 
type of Christian Service to campers, the community 
and the YMCA. 

Respoctfully submitted, 


Verlie Dodds 
(Girlst Camp Directress) 


Froperty: 
l. 


Be 


36 


4e 


Se 


Recommendations 
Camp Terrot 1947, 


Negotiations should start soon with our 
Farmer-neighbour on the East, Mr. Leduc, 
to exchange an equal or greater area of 
our unused land back of our barn, for his 
piece of property adjacent to ours and be- 
low the road, 


That if possible, an arrangement, or long 
term lease, be concluded with our East 
shore=wline neighbour, Mr. Lalonde, for use 
of his meadows and beach for campers dur- 
ing the season only. 


The water-front area cliffs be graded, or 
other steps be taken before next season, 
to prevent further crosion of the land y 
beach. 


Work on the moving of the water-front cote 
tage should begin as soon as the frost is 
in the ground. 


Reforestration plans, as developed by the 
Board to prevent erosion, beautify the 
grounds and to mark the boundry lines, 
will be very valuable in the years to come 
and should commence in the early Spring. 


Construction: 


1. 


2e 


Be 


4e 


The camp has now reached the stage where 
an adequate Dining Hall is required with 
facilities, not only for the campers, 

but the proper reception of Conference 
Groups, organized parties, and other YMCA 
program features can be accommodated.e This 
is necessary if full use is to be made of 
the property. 


A Hospital unit seperated from the Admin- 
istration building is required. 


A Craft Shop building adequately equiped 
would add a great deal to the program and 
provide constructive leisure-~ time hobbies 
for the campers. 


Sturdy constructed tables and benches are 
needed for the Dining Hall and around the 
grounds. 


Trogram: 
le 


Se 


Staff: 
le 


— 


The barn could be converted into a rainy- 
day play area and auditoriun for games, 
dances, dramatic presentations, etce 


Camp Ferrot has within its reach great 
stretches of water-ways that lead to many 
spots of historical ‘and education interest 
to the campers. With additional ganoes 
many more yarties could ve Conducted to 
these places of interest, both one day and 
over=night trips should be featured. 


In order to provide a wollerounded camping 
experience for all it should be stipulated 
that no campers be accepted for a period of 
less than two weeks. 


The staff, if the numbers of the camp are 
to be increased, should also be augmented 
with a helper in the kitchen, office secre- 
tary, and at least one more paid member on 
the program staff. 


Other Suggestions: 


No refunds should be granted on the regis- 


le 
tration fee unless illness occurSe 
2. If a camper withdraws before the complet~ 
ion of registered time - except in case of 
illness - no refund should be granted for 
the time not spent at campe 
Respectfully submitted, 
OeN,H, Owens Ae T, Dodds 
Chairmane Camp Director. 


