Owned and Operated by 
THE 
Y.M.C.A. OF MONTREAL 


INNUUCTUNAVA ATTA 


FOR BOYS . . . . JUNE 28 TO AUGUST 9 
FOR \GIRES 20s wie es, AUGUST: 13 TO +27 


QONUUUVVAAAUAA ATT 


LEADERSHIP ... 


Director of the camp is Donald 
Cochrane graduate of McGill Univer- 
sity School of Physical Education. He 
has had wide experience in camping 
and has directed Camp Perrot for the 
last six years. As a Director of Physical 
Education in Lachine Schools, he is in 


close contact with youth throughout the 


year, 


Camp Staff 


Of paramount importance to parents in selecting a summer camp for their 
boys is the calibre of leadership provided. Perrot staff and counsellors are 
carefully selected for their knowledge and interest in boys, for their 
experience and skill in camping, and for their all-round exemplification 
of genuine Christian living. Pre-camp training sessions are scheduled both 
in the city and at the camp before the arrival of campers. The Montreal 
Y.M.C.A. has stressed the importance of adequate, trained staff in all 
of its activities. Camp Perrot has consistently lived up to this high 
standard. The camp is divided into two age-sections: Juniors, and 
Seniors. Each of the age-sections of the camp is supervised by a 
competent Director, thoroughly conversant with the needs and interests 
of the boys under his care. 


Girls’ Camp 


The girls’ camp will again be under the direction of Mrs. Maureen Ring, 
formerly Y.M.C.A. Secretary at Northeastern Y.M.C.A. who has many 
years of camping experience. Associated with her will be a trained staff 
of program personnel and counsellors. 


A registered nurse will be in residence throughout the entire season. 
Daily health clinics ensure the health and safety of campers. The John 
W. Ross Memorial Hospital is completely equipped in every respect. 
A doctor in nearby Ste. Anne de Bellevue is available by telephone. 
A deep artesian well, government tested and approved, provides an 
abundance of pure drinking water. 


Donald Dewar (chairman), Gordon Mackey, H. C. Brophy, George 
Clouston, A. Forbes, Herb Furness, Cam Gorrie, Dr. Henry 
F. Hall, A. Hamilton, W. 


J. CG. Hewetson, F. G. 
Hubbard, S. F. Kneeland, 
M. Lebeau, J. F. Lewis, 
A. Miles, F. J. Nobbs, 
O. N. H. Owens, Dr. 
Preston Robb, S. A. Sem- 
per, A. R. Twentarny. 


Camp Perrot is situated 
on the south shore of Isle 
Perrot, looking out over 
the St. Lawrence River, 
with Beauharnois on the 
left and the Ottawa and 
St. Lawrence Rivers 
merging on the right. The 
Camp property consists 
of forty-five acres and has 
600 feet of sandy shore 
line. The Camp is ap- 
proximately twenty-eight 
miles from Montreal. 


Story-time is adventure time at Camp Perrot 


Fun in the Water Under Close Supervision 


Safe Swimming 


There is a sandy shore where campers swim under the watchful eye of 
qualified life guards. The slope is gradual and the swimming location is 
safe for beginners. Special instruction is given to non-swimmers. 


Playing Space 


A considerable portion of the Camp property is level ground and lends 
itself to all types of team games, such as softball, football, and athletic 
events. 
Extensive bush country is within walking distance of the camp, where 
campers can enjoy nature hikes, camping out, and various wood craft 
games, 


Program 


There are ample facilities for a healthy outdoor vacation for boys and 
girls. Swimming and boating, hikes, camp craft and woodcraft, camp 
fires, and games of all kinds are a few of the program features. The 
watercraft facilities include row-boats, and a fleet of freighter canoes 
which are available for qualified canoeists. 


Chapel 


Non-sectarian Chapel services for all campers are held every Sunday 
morning amid the surroundings of a beautiful natural Chapel. Arrange- 
ments are made whereby Roman Catholic campers may attend Mass 
in the nearby village. 


Food 


Well balanced meals are prepared under professional supervision, Plenty 
of fresh fruit and vegetables are available and only pasteurized milk is 
served. 


Special Events 


Special events are traditional in Camp Perrot program. These include 
masquerade parties, stunt nights, hay rides, Indian Council Fires, Penny 
Fair, Backwoodsman Day. The opening and closing camp-fire ceremonies 
will live long in the memories of Camp Perrot campers, with their long 
torchlight processions winding throughout the Camp and the huge “Fire 
of Friendship”. 


CAMPING DEVELOPS HEALTHY MINDS AND BODIES 


A Hike Group Camping Out 


SECOND 
IN SE 
OF Y 


REGISTER EAR 
NEAREST Y.M. 
OR THE CA 
1441 DRUMMONE 


CENTURY 


RVICE 
OUTH 


LY AT YOUR 
C.A. BRANCH 
MP OFFICE 

) ST. - VI. 9-8331 


Canoeing is Fun 


Boating and Out Trips 


Rigid swimming tests must be passed by campers before they are allowed 
to use any water craft. They learn to use boats and canoes under skilled 
supervision. Trips in the freighter canoes up the Ottawa river are 
outstanding features for qualified campers. Life Jackets are worn on all 
out trips. 


Crafts and Interest Groups 


Handicrafts play a major role at Camp Perrot. The Laddie Millen 
Memorial Handicraft Workshop was presented to the camp by Mr. 
J. E. Millen and family. The shop includes complete equipment for 
woodwork, leathercraft, square knotting and braiding. For the older 
campers, power tools offer the opportunity of making such fine articles as 
bows, paddles, and many other exciting articles. Girls also share in this 
craft program. 


Tents 


Campers live in tents with raised wooden floors, built well off the 
ground. They sleep in single and double decker canvas bunks. 


Rainy Weather Facilities 


The camp property includes a large farm barn renovated by the Fore- 
men’s Club of Montreal, and made available for rainy day activities. 
The spacious Dining Hall with the huge open fireplace is also used for 
indoor programs. These provide facilities for amateur shows, sing-songs, 
and “stunt nights’. 


Nature Lore 


Nature lore plays a prominent part in the camp program. The country 
around the camp abounds in wild life, including bird life, wild plants 
and flowers, fossils and the like. The camp has a fine nature lore 
museum with hundreds of interesting specimens collected by the campers. 


Who May Go 


Any boy age 9 to 14 years may apply for accommodation during the 
Boys’ Camp Period. Girls age 9 to 15 years are accepted during the 
Girls’ Camp Period. 


CAMPING PROVIDES FUN AND ADVENTURE 


Each tent is occupied by seven campers and a counsellor 


Personal Equipment 


Each camper will require three warm blankets, pillow, toilet articles, 
towels, bathing suit and clothes suitable for Camp. A complete list of 
equipment will be mailed when the application is received. 


Camp Dates and Registration 


In order to provide a holiday for as large a number of boys and girls 
as possible, a two week period is suggested for each camper. Boys’ 
Camp opens on Saturday, June 28th, and Girls’ Camp on Wednesday, 
August 13th. A registration fee of $5.00 must accompany advance 
registration and is not refundable. This amount is applied on camp fees 
which are payable two weeks prior to leaving for camp. 


Transportation Arrangements 


FEES 


Campers will be taken by bus from the Terminus on Dorchester and 
Drummond Streets to the camp and return. The cost is nominal. 
Supervised parties for boys leave the terminus on changeover 
Saturdays at 10 A.M. and for girls, on Wednesday at 10 A.M. 
Returning groups reach the Terminus around 12.30 P.M. 


Since the prime objective of the camp is to provide a low cost camp 
experience for the greatest number, the rate for the first two week 
period is $32.00, and $23.00 per week for each additional week. 


Address 
The camp address is: Y.M.C.A. Camp Perrot, Ile Perrot North, Que. 


Camp Perrot is operated by the Y.M.C.A. as a service to boys 
and girls of Greater Montreal who for a variety of reasons 


are unable to attend camps with more elaborate facilities. 
Fees are set at a figure below actual operating costs with an 
Annual allocation from the Y.M.C.A. Financial Campaign. 


The Y.M.C.A. of Montreal also operates Kamp Kanawana, a north- 
woods camp at St. Sauveur, for boys 8-16. A tripping and_ hiking 
program is emphasized with extensive water craft facilities. For 
information, inquire at any Y.M.C.A. Branch or the Camp Office. 


