1948 


REPORT OF THE MONTREAL YMCA CAMP PEROT FOR BOYS AND GIRLS 
aerate ene eee amet ce 


To the: 
Camp Board of Management. 


INTRODUCTION 


Gentlemen 3 
The fifth season for the YMCA Canp on Ile Perrot may be 

termed the "Building Year" and the complete vindication of the 
early committéé who set out to find a beautiful camping site, 
easy OF access td the city, where the youth of Montreal could go 
at reasonable cost for a camping experiencee 

~ The increasing fopularity of this island for summer 
cottages, and ifideed its steady growth for many as year-round 
Fesidence, attest the far-sighted view of the pioneer group in 
secuting the present location for deVelopmente. “Land values in 
the camp afea have trebIed in the last few years and the erection 
of~the presént buildings have set the camp property on a permanent 
basis and as yet unestimated value. 
oa Through the years to come, the ever-Active and pro-~ 
gressive Camp Committee”have charted many plans and activities that 
are not limited to Ofie scason or group, but entail a”vision of 
inereesing uscfulness for the property and fecilities available. 


Cemps and cemping experience require no justification 
to this committée but we~would like to quote Prof.”Marroney of 
Columbia Univercity who said, "Ever¥ boy 4nd girl should have a 
camping expericncé°for like public schools, they are not a luxury, 
but an absolute essential." 

It is widely believed that~there is no element of the 
program™of the YMCA which accomplishes more then the summer carp 
for boys. From the results there c%m be little doubt. Cempers 
make friénds they would not otherwise have made. They are taught 
camping skills, swimming, canoeing, baseball, volleyball and - 
washing dishes, etc. Men now in the mature life Iook Back upon 
their”period in Boys* Camp as a time when life was outstandingly 
wholesome and happy; and not a few ha¥e fouiid their way into YMCA 
work and other foims of definite Christian service primarily as a 
result of contacts at camp and with camp leaders, 


~ 


NEW BUILDINGS The new Dining Hell erected at Cemp during the 1948 season 

is an ideal one in every way. 

Location: pleAssnt @nd central; Size: suitable to serve an 
expending camp up to 160 campers and ataff, or for special day or evening 
groups up to 250 people; Equipment: sturdy, practical, adjustable for many~ 
types of program, movie shows, conferenée sessions, dances, or small parties, 
etez; Facilities: unlimited,~could be used for year-round activities, “Fall 
and Spring conferences, the summer camping period and small beginner ski 
parties in the winter. 

~ To-date the buildings have been of~invaluable se¥vice, not 

Only during the sufmer, but for many clubs and g¥oups that have visited the 
site since the close of the formal boys and girls camp. 
~  _The™local contractor, Mr. E. Leduc,~fulfilled everyone of 
the obligations in his contract, and~in many other respects did additidnal 
work, beyond his job, at no-extra cost, to make thé Dining Hall and Hospital 
two-of the finest such units in any camp in Canaia.e During the course of 
éonstruction, with the approval of the Cofmittee, the original plans were 
slightly extended to have the fire-place stone-work continued to the roof. 
This addition has given the Dining Hall a beautiful harmonizing centre-piece 
thet has become a prscticel utilized "Hearth" for the entire cCampe 


~ ~ ww 


THE KY TCHEN Has been désigned on a functional basis, to give quick, 
efficient service for the freparation, dispensing and™ 
servicing of~food and the sanitary cléen-up’ and™~disposal 
of provisions. Thé equipment incIudes all sorts of 
modern conveniefices, designed to speed the production of 
wholesome meals in a cheerful atmosphere. An 80 gallon jack-heater and tank 
to” supply hot water, en automatic electrically controlled refrigeration 
system and cooler roome 


~ a 


~ ~ 


- Adjecent to the kitchen there is a specially drilled well, 
with an automatically electric controlled pump and system 
supplying water up to a quantity of 40 gallons a minute. 


- An eutomeatic bread and™meat ctittér mathifie, a butter cutter 
end all manner of tools, utensils, dishes and pans necessary 
in en up-to-date kitchen, 


~ ~ ~~ 


~ 


“The contractor 4nd his employees were kept busy fdr most 
of the camping season, making adjustments, doing™detail work and on supple- 
mentary projects in connection with the buildings for moat of the canping 
seasOn. Howevér, they did not Interfere with the on-Zoing program. Of one 
occasion, I was conéerned in™cAse there would not be sufficient benches to 
accormodate the boys and guests for the official opening. 


The inaugural ceremony took place on Tuesday, June 29th. 
with Col. Gereld W. Birks officiating and a group of distinguished guests 
presente 


Page 11 


~ . ~ ~ ~ 


THE HOSPITAL The John W. Rdss Memdrial Hospital is indeed one of the™most 

complete units of its type in aifly campe The location is in 

a quiet areaof the camp grounds, yét giving an~ overall view 

of the camp setting” and lake. The structure must be ‘seen to 

be eppréciatéd. Inside, évery convenience for the ease and 
welfare of the campers is presents The easing of pain and the quick recovery 
of their health have been the primary cénsideration in equiping this wit. 
the building is partitioned end fo¥ this review, may be classified in these 
sections:= ~(1) The surgéry or first aid room, where slight cases are treated, 
examinations and diagonia are meade ala office records kept. ~(2) The nurse's 
bed-sitting Foom end private quarters. (3) The four bed hospital ward. 
(4) Thé olitside Porch convelescent wing. THroughout the building tiie equipment, 
appartus,~ supplies, furniture™ and furnishings are the best. There is adequate 
cupboard space thréughout, a sink, running vater, self-contained toilet facili- 
ti8s, specially designec "picture windows" and awnings, the building is”éspecially 
insulated, suppliéd with electric power through many~ convenient outlets. It is 
decorated both insite and out in harmonizing and pleasing colourse 


A férmal detication sérvice was held on Sunday efternoon, 
August 8th. The Rev. Leonard Griffiths officiating. Before the unveiling of 
the plaque, Mr. J.W. Beaton spoke of the life and service of the late Dr. John 
W, Rosse Mr. John F. Lewis, CKhairman of the Camp Committee, presided. Following 
the ceremony, afternoon tea was served to honoureé guests, visitors and camperse 
* The Montreal YMCA Ys deeply indebted to Mr. J. Ernest Millen 
end his femily for his very generous bequeste 


~ ~ 


BARN The Foremen's Club of Montreal, with the léadership of Mr. N. 
Millington, have taken oVer the old Barn as their service 
project. They came Sut several Saturday atternoons and have 
laid a new floor, installed electric lights,~and will in the 
future, further carry on with a planned transformation of the 

Berti into a Recretional Hall, including a stage and facilities for”Craft work. 

This group have already expended much effort, time™ and money on this projécte 

Eventuafly, the old barn will be made into a fine spot for rainy day and special 

progr amg. 


a ~ 


NEW EQUIPMENT Truck: The 01a camp~1929 Fo¥d Station-wagon was sold” this year 
and thé money so’raised, plus an additional amount was used to 
purchase the present 1935 ton”and a half truck. We made great 
use of this vehicle, which was an esséntial part of the cemp 
equipment. It was due to our having such 4 truck aveilable 

that we were able to buy much of our food locally et lo# cost. We made ex- 

tensive use of the truck to bring urgent and essential supplies. 

ps be Hovever;~the truck was not all it appeared to be, and at mid- 

season it was foun? nécescary to replace thé motor with a new one and to buy 

wo now tires’ With some more adjustments soon, necessary on the truck, it will 
soon prove itself cven more valuable in the years to comes 
Raft: It was necescary in the interest™of safety, that this 
year a-complete few raft be Built. Mr. E. Leduc did this job for us and We now 
heve 2 solid and substential six-drum raft anchored off the beach. It adds much 
to the waterfron activity. 


Page 111 


~ ~ 


LEADERSHIP I am indebts4 to the following tounsellors anit staff who ~ 
AND STAFF meae it possible for the campers to enjoy this year's activities. 


They all contributed «9 mich to the on-going program and act- 
ivities of camp life.~ I should like to thank each and everyone, 
and in particular, Mrae I. Bogle, our efficient Camp Chef. 


COUNSELLORS 
Junior Section Senior Section 
Gord icberts John Smith 
Nick Assley Ray Bowman 
Doug Wilstn Fred Russell 
John Nourse Herbert Braithwaite 
Douz Sellar Charles Gaitens 
Ronnie Law” Fred Collins 


David Niles 


SECTION DIRECTORS 
George Ward Lloyd Bourdon 
KITCHEN & DINING HALL STAR? 7 
Mrsq I. Bogle,- Chef. Bill Rae - Albie Gaitens 
BUSINESS MANAGER 


Clayton Cemeron 


WATERFRON AND CANOE TRIP DIRECTOR 


Pete Sykes 
HOSPITAL PROGRAM & CRAFT DIRECTORS 
Miss Marie Comeau, R.N.°' Phil Dunn ~ 
Dr, Kelso Ernest Robinson 


Dr. Lougheed 


~ ~ ~ ~ 


A’special word should be said also at this time, to the many 
old reliable friends who contributed so muth to the camp whenever they hed an 
opportunity to drop in, on @’ weekend or 2 special cceasion: Members of the Board 
of Manegetient, Mr. H.C. Cross, The architect, Mr. E. Wiggs, Mr. Le Clarke - 
BuYIding supérintendent, Mr, Herb Patterson, AL. Tvintarney, Jerry Wright and 
Russell Belle 


~~ ~ ~ 


LEADERSHIP Ye were fortiinate Again this year in seturing the servicés of 
TRAINING so many counsellors whs had beén with us in the 1947 seasone 


Over 50% of last year's leaders réturned to camp to make the 
nucleus around which the new corps formed. 


Page 1V 


~~ J 


~ 


Individually they were interviewed” conterning this year's 

aims aid objectives. An outline of théir duties, responsibilities and privileges 
was also givene The program men Were supplied with books, pamphlets and papers 
@ealing with their particular phase of the camp organization very early in the 
yeare Several Social gatherings were held when camp proceedure was explained 

and camp methods were developede 


~ ~ 


ne 


. Well before camp, every counsellor ani™staff member was given 

a specially prepared twélve pagé "Camp Perrot Counsellors Training Course" book- 
let = a booklet that was a digest of many books, articles and” the experience of 

the Camp Director, having particuler reference to the problems that would be met 
within Perrote 


es On the weekend of June 25th. - 27th. all tHe Boy and Girl 
counsellors met tdcdther”at the camp for a combinéd, on™the spot, Training Coursée 
Druing the camp, sessions Were held”~with the counsellors and constant contect was 
meintrined with the fembers of the «taff and leaders to help them seek a solution 
to the many problems that occur in any camp organizations 


STATISTICAL Use Sf the Cemp property was not @onfinod to the formal canping 
REPORT dates. <A great mafiy organizetions in the Montreal YMCA, end 


others, made extensive usc of the fatilities before the official 
opening, du¥ing the regular camping season end after the closing 
of the girls period. 


~ nw 


Forements Club of Montreal (5 visits) ~ 55 
Central "Y" Saturday Night Club (5 visits) 225 
Cetitral "Y" Young Peoplés Conference 22 
Westmount ~- YS6ung Adults ~ 30 
Lachine Protestent Churches picnic 150 
Church of the Messiah picnic 125 
Olympic Swimming Team 9 
Point St. Charles "Y" Conference 35 
Westmount™"y" Conference 15 
Hi-Y Clubs of Montreal Conferente 25 
LatGhine City Camp boys 4nd girls picnic 70 
Rosemount City Camp boys and girls picnic 60 
Rotery Club members visit 15 
Mr.~"X" Entertsinment Party 12 
Kingmen's Club of Lachine ~ 15 
North Branch "Y" Young Men's Committee 14 
Point St. Charles "Y" Barn Dance 39 
Phalanx Club of Central "Y" 8 

920 


Overnight Boys Hike Groups 
Central "Y" Boys (3 state) 22 


Weetmount "Y" Boys (4% visits) ~ 30 
Southwestern "Y" Boys (5 Visits)~ ~ 36 
Point Ste Charles "Y"~Boys (2 visits) 12 


Kenewana Canoe Parties (2 visits) 20 


1948 i - 
STATISTICAL Brench ; Boys Girls Total 
REPORT j 
Southwestern 26 51 87 
N.D Ge 18 10 28 
Eastern Communities 15 4 19 
North 12 2 14 
Central 34 34 
Lachine 75 58 133 
Westmount 15 4 19 
Pointe Ste Charles 27 4 iE 
Camp office 132 43 195 
International & 2 6 
308 178 546 
(The 1948 camp~was open for a period of eight weeks, whereas 
in 1947 it was a nine week period. In 1948 the girls had only 
a two week period.) 
i 1948 1947 
Total number of different Boys 
that attended camp 162 185 
Total number of different Girls 
that ettended camp 89 75 
251 260 
Number of boys” passing Svim Tests - 96. 
Number of girls p#sing Swim Tests - Mie 
Number of boy% going on one day canoe trips ~ 90 
Number of boys going on overnight canoe trips 63 
Number of Parents and friends visiting camp 
on Sundays 800 
PROGRAM To givé @ detailed account of thé varied program carried 


on this eummer would be an exhaustive record. However, 
I would like to suimerize the general weekly program and 
give the highlishts of the special programs conducted. 


Waterfront: Swimming of course, was the major progra.. 
foatiire of camp, boating and canoe trips éeme next on the list of campers in- ~ 
terest and participation, The very fine sandy beach that was flooded after last 


Page V1 


Spring's exceptionally high watér, acain Appeared on our waterfron property, 
thus rectoring one of the campts finest assets. 


y ~ 


~ 


he counsellors and campers in the early part of the season 
made steady progress in elcsring the waterfron area, erecting wharfs, and 
enchoring log booms eroune the swirming areae 


~ a ~ 


~ ~ 


General Program: With camp periods opening on Mondays instead 
of Wednesdays, we were able to have a’ completé round of activities without a 
mid-week chanZe over. Morning periods were ustially devoted to Craft activitiés 
and camp games. The after dinner time to hikes, projects, nature study g¥oups, 
ete.” The early evening Hours to baseball, team games, sports and of course the 
almost nightly camp firese Special programs incIuded;- Saturday, an all day 
hike time, the boys cooking thei¥ own dinfler on sélected”’sités around the island. 

Olympic Day, Indian Day, Cempers’Day, Masquerades, Christmas and New Yéar's 
parties, Hayrodes, Weekly Regattas, Stunt Nights, etc. A Penny Fair was held 
where the entire csmp efijoyed the fun of preparation and taking part in the mmy 
novel exhibits and gemese The entire proceeds of this event were given to the 
YMCA World Service Fund. 


~ ~ i 


CHAPEL The pleasent grove of trees on the camp property was used 
each Sunday as the sité~for our Chapel servicess Here each 
week the entire camp assembled to join in meditatisn and 
prayer. Inspirational talks weré given by our guest Mr. 

“Sediq D¥al Cheiid on two occasions; Mr. Herb Patterson, the™ 

Camp Director,and several servitcs where conducted entirely by the Counsellors 

and Cemperse Chapel collections were forwarded to the World Service Fund. 


Morning devotional periods at bréakfast were taken from the 
book "Special Delivery” by Douglas Monahan. These short up-to-date, moral 
pointed letters proved to be very worthwhile and popular with the boyse 


HEALTH The genérAl health of the camp was good. However, a great 
AND SAFETY many cases of poison ivey were treated from contacts made 


outside the camp property. An educatiofial campaign was 
conatantly mentioned to help the campers recognize this 
obioxious Weed when on hikese The greatly improved™hospital 
facilities were extensively used and™all the campers, coufisellors and staff 
mombers were urged to have their cuts, scratches, ailments, attended to at once 
before deeper infections were allowed to get a holde 


~~ 


~~ 


ded 


~ pr. Kélso of $t. Anne’s again gave unstintifigly”of His skill 
and professional services. His ready response to all our calls was a source of 
great™aid to us in maintaining the camp health and’ safety. When Dr. Kelso left 
on his holideys He asked the doctor teKing OVer his practice to keep a watchful 
eye on his wards. Dr. Lougheed, his successor, continued the interest in our 
camp and we Were agreeably surprised to learn that Dr. Lougheed had formerly 
been on the staff of Kamp Kanawanae 


~~ 


PUBLICITY This year's folder was indeed an excellent medium for thé 
AND promotion of the~camps A great deXl more information was ~~ 
PROMOTION conveyed~in the seme Space and thus eliminated many needless 


questions, phone calls and embarrassing situations that arcse 


Page Vil 


~ 


~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~ 


the previous yeare 
i It was discovered late in the” season that the restriction on 
registéring for a period of longer than two weeks lost a great many potential ~ 
camperse The practice, however, of having the camp period open on a Monday was 
foufid to be very~good and should in my opinion™be continued. New cuts of the 
presont buildings and activities, obteined this year, will add a creat deal to 
the presentation and promotion, 

“Meny obvious iifficulties arose this year in giving the office 
work for both camps to one girl in ea central tity offite. More efficient work 
and plannin# cen be carrie? out If the responsibilities of the two camps are 
divide? or sheared by ancther person in a central location. 


The necessity of havin the Cemp Director out at Camp déaling 
with many details on the new buildings just prior to the opening, also caused~a 
Accline~in promotion. In another yoar this. would not happen and with the con- 
tinue? support of the branches, we feel sure the camp would be filled to capacitye 


ee ~~ 


IN APPRECIATION The Camp Director is very eppreciative to thos many people 
net formally~recognized in such a report as this, but who” 
eontributed so much to the welfare of the camp and campers. 


~ Tc the Parents and friends who gave willingly of their time 
and ability when called upon. 

e To~the Provincial Trensport Company who arranged a special 
bus to and from the camp each Sundey. 

- To our neizhboirs, tradesepeople and friends on the island, 
who were elways so helpful and understanding. 


-. To the YMCA staff of the Montreal Branchese 


- -To Miss Vera Rutherford of the Camp Office. 


RECOMMENDATIONS A formal”and detailed refort™ containing suggestions, recomm- 
endations and proceeéures has been prepared and tabled with 
the special Committee desling with Camp Perrot. 
However, in this report I would Tike t® metition its urgent 

need of having a retain wall along the waterfron as soon as possible. 

ae Additione to the camp fleet are required for next seasOn. 

Row Boats,~smalY punts and another Targe”freight canoe. The planting of suitablé 

trecs and Shrubs in strategic points, visualizing the area in terms of many years 

should be started early next Springs 


~ 


Respectfully submitted, 


AeTe DODDS 
Camp Director 


ATD /bt 


GIRLS CAMP 


AUGUST 9TH, ~ 23RD. 1948 


aed 


~ 


STAFF Progrem Directress ~ 
Vaterfront Directress 


Senior Counsellor 


Carol Hammond ~ 
Marilyn Mathéws 
Bess Clements 


Chef Mrs. Ina Bogle 
Nurse Miss Marie Comeau, 2.N. 
Senior Section Junior Sectidn 
(12 years ani over) (Under 12 years ) 
Directress: Carol Hammond Directress: Marilyn Mathews 
Counsellors: Joan Allton Counsellors: Lynn Bowe¥ing Cc 
Joan Deachman Myrna Chislétt C 
Gladys Hinchcliff X Carol Dollison x 
Brenda Lamb x Caireen Elliott (spare) 
Janet Preston” Joan Henley x 
Hilary Spriggs Nina Long 
June Petrie x 


~ 


X Counsellor last year. 


~ 


~ - ~ ~ 


C Lest year's campere 


Number of Cempers 89 


~ ~ ~ ~~ 


The fifth season for GirIs Camp vas a happy experience with 


the largest enrolment to-date, of 89 campers who participated in a full outdoor 


and™indoor program. 


The new Dining Hall end Hospital facilitated” to a very 


considerable extent the general camp administration and activities. 


PROGRAM 


J ~ 


~ nw ~ 


~ 


The two weeks period assigned to™Girls Camp foTlowed a 
definite daily routine interspersed with many special events. 
The waterfront activities were confined to Swimming and 
Cefoeing instruction; Swimming and Uanoe trips for advanced 


swimmerse New Row boats are urgently needed for use in swim patrol and for further 


waterfront programe 


~ ~~ 


~ ~ nw ~~ 


There were Many group games, stavenger and™treasure hunts, 


baseball, hike days 4nd breakfast corked out Wednesday mornings, and in addition 


many special features such ast~ 


(1) 


~ 


Camp-fires (in pa¥ticular, opening and closing 
Torchlizht parades). 
Stunt Night, 
Cempers’ Day - 4 campers’ staff, elected by poluar 
vote, took over camp-administration and program for one 
day. 
Masqueradeée 
Hayride and Weiner Roast. 

Olympic Day - Swimming, track and field events. 
of ‘Olympie Queen at evening camp-fire 

Indian Nitht - Colourful event in Council Circle: 
Hiawathats arrival by canoe; feats of skill by 


~ ~~ 


~ 


Crowning 


CRAFTS 


DRAMATICE . 


CHAPEL 


HEALTH 


VISITORS 


(8 


~— 


(9) 


(10) 
(11) 
(12) 


(13) 


Page li 


~ 


"Braves"; Peace Pipe Ceremony. 


Christmas Party: The christmas tree, @ donation from 

the Mayor of Ile Perrot, was placed besidé the fire-place 
in”the Dining Hall. The Camp Director,” as Santa Claus, 
distributé* gifts donatéd by all cemperse 

New Year's Eve: Campers brouzht to Dining Hall at midnicht 
to say ferewell to Old Camp Perrot 1948 and welcome the new 
Perrot 1949, 
Movicése 

Lumber jatk Dinner. 
Kinsmen's Club, Lachine ~- 8 members had dinner with campers 
efter which they provided movies and other entertainment, 
followéd by a Corn Roast. They also gave icecream 4nd 
cookies for the evenifig dinfer. ‘Their generosity was much 
appreciated by campers and staff. 

Closing Banqtet - Held in the new Dining Hall. Several 
visitors present. The Perrot Follies, capably directed 

by Carol Hammond followed the banquet. 


id ww 


~ 


Two afternoons a week, crafts were held On the verandah of 
the Dining Hall, which made it very pleasant. Shellcraft 
was’ a popular craft as well as Felt Work, Clay Modelling, 
Plastic Work and Arte ~ , 

Archery instruction was in charge of Phil Dunn, 


~ 


This group met in the”’Barn to read playse Since the closing 
of camp, the Foremen's Club of Montreal, have built a stage ~ 
in the barn which will be adequate for many dramatic projects 
auring next year's compe 


~ ~ ~~ 


Chapel service was héld in the grove of treés on Sundays at 
11:00 A.M. with ‘the staff in charge the first Sunday, and 
Counsellors the sé@ond Sunday. Eizht Roman Catholic girls 
attended early Mass at the Village church. 


~ ~ ~ 


The modern Hospital with completé equipment was a source” of 
invaluable help to the cempe Miss Marie Comeau, R.N. was 
the nurse in charges 


~ ~ ~~ 


At least 175 parents and~visitors were at Camp Perrot on 
the two Sunday afternoons, may of whom came by the Special 
Suncay Bus, Afternoon tea was -érved on the verandah of the 
Dining Hall. I found the parents to be very cooperative and 
friendly toward the campe 


Page 111 


STAFF AND a i i 
COUNSELLORS to all members of the Staff and Counsellors, I should like to 


say how much I have appreciated their splendid teamwork and 
hich t¥pe of service which they rendereg to the Camp and 
Campers ' 


~ we ~ 


RECOMMENDATIONS To next year's Directress ani Staff, I should like to make 
the following recommendaticns:- 


~ 


(1) That the Cemper's ace range be changed to 9 = 19 years 
instead of 10 - 16 years. ~ ii 
(Counsellors! age range was from 15 - 1” years) 


(2) Theat Counsellors be requireé to have a Life-Baving 
Certificate end a craft skill for insttuctinz. 


~ 


(3) That age grouping be ret2ined with 2 Section Directress for 
each groupe 


~ 


(4) That a small area on one’of the Ile Perrot farms be rented 
for overnight hike groupse 


~ 


Respectfully submitted, 


VERLIE DODDS ~~ 
Girls Camp Directress 


w/t 


