CAMP PERROT 
SUGGEST IONS 


RECOMMENDATIONS 


1948 


l. 


The Barns 


The Garden: 


SUGGEST IONS 


REC ATIONS 
CAMP PERROT 1948 


That the Foremen'’s Club be encouraged to complete re- 
novations of the Barn before the beginning of the 1949 
season: 


(a) 
(b) 


(c) 


(a) 
(e) 
(f) 
(g) 


(h) 
(4) 
(3) 


(k) 
(1) 


The section formerly used to store ice be built up 

to the level of the other flooring. 

The western section be turned into a Crafts section 
with adequate cupboard space, and that the electric 
wiring be extended to that area, with provision to 

be made to eventually use power tools. 

That the stage section be completed with special 
wiring for stage lights installed and wings or 
dressing room space be made available. 

That the interrior be spray-painted in harmonizing 
colours. 

That the roof be re-shingleé or otherwise weather- 
proofed. 

That the barn area have a humber of floor-plug outlets 
for use of movies or other special events, 

That a proper stairs be built up to the loft section, 
and that this area could be renovated and used for a 
balcony to the assembly section, a reading or club 

room and many other usese 

That more window space be made available on the western 
side to be used for crafts. 

That the rear door be permanently locked and kept 
closeé. 

That the two entrances now available be securely lockeé 
when not in use, and that strong locks be used through- 
out the entire barn to protect the contents. 

That benches be made to line the inside wall of the 
Recreation section. (non=movable type) 

That cupboard space be available to stoe games equipment 
around hall area, (suggest under benches) 


After careful consideration it is our critical opinion that 
the idea of cultivating a garden during the camping season 
should be abandoned. The results achieved are negligible 
to the food supply, and the labour involved is out of all 
proportion to the amount gained. The campers felt it was 
an imposition on their time, and the little work done was 
completed by members of the staff in any spare time they 
might have had, the crop with few exceptions did not pro- 
duce in time for the camp to use, and all in all it was 
very discouraging for the cost and effort. 


However, this area would make an ideal spot for several 
tennis courts and a games ereae It is well shaded, has an 
excellent hedge around and is easy of access. 


Se The Cottage: 


(1) Celler (a) The present water-pump should be completely re- 
conditioned. Soundings should be taken of present 
well to determine the depth of water and if the 
pump now in use is sufficiently powerful to draw 
same to surface. That the inlet to the cellar 
from the garden well water should be tested to see 
if there is water in large enough quantities and if 
so, then the pipe inlet should be hooked up to act 
as a reservoir for the other well. This would then 
necessitate the garden-well unused at present, to be 
adequately covereé. 

(b) The constant dampness of the cellar does not permit 
it to be use@ as a reliable storage place for any 
equipment that may rust, corode or be of value after 
any time left there. Proper ventilation would help 
to a slight degree but not to any appreciable extent. 


(21) Kitchen (a) With slight alterations, and the opening of the 
verandah door, this area could be made into a suitable 
Tuck Shop for the camperse Generous hours when the 
Tuck Shop would be open and operating, together with 
attractive surroundings, benches, tables, and a 
variety of goods for sale at suitable prices would 
lessen the desire of the staff, counsellors and 
campers to visit the nearby and in my opinion, un- 
desirable restaurant around the corner from the campe 


This renovation would cost a little to be done, but 
in my opinion unless it is done well, it should not 
be attempted. Over a period of time, I feel sure the 
din pitas profits from such a ‘Place would well take care of the 


t es be Saige employed to attend this Tuck Shop and look 
‘after the business of such a place. 


It is also my strong opinion, that arrangements could 
be made in such a place withthe Bell Telephone Company 
to have a Pay Telephone installed there, where it would 
be under control of such an attendant who would be em- 
ployed there in the Tuck Shop, thus giving us the 
benefit of telephone service into the camp, but also 
controlling the out-going calls to regular periods 
under supervision and forcing the people making such 
calls to paye I understand also that from such a 
telephone service there is a generous discount allowed 
on the total receiptse 


Such an arrangement as that suggested above would not 

in eny way prevent the usual use of the kitchen equip- 
ment, stoves, etc. for small parties or duties connected 
with the housee 


3. The Cottage: 
(Continued) 


(111) The Living 
Room 


(lV) ‘The Bathroom 
and Stairway 


(v) Office 


(¥1) Storage 
Room 


4. Hospital: 


Page 3 


The above suggestion has been arrived at after the 
experience with the Restaurant this summer and the 
ineffectual effort to keep a certain record of oute 
going telephone calls. It would under this arrange- 
ment he necessary to eliminate the present telephone, 
end all camp out-going calls would be paid for in 
cash, with a limited and controlled time for people 
other than staff to use same. (Selected staff people 
could have a key to the Tuck area and thus use the 
ghone). The Tuck Shop could be open to parents and | 
visitors on Sundays and a considerable revenue thus 
collected that now goes to the Restaurant. 


This room is now in excellent condition for the 
reception of visitors and guests, however, it is not 
fully or well equipped with furniture and requires 
additional chairs, mats, pictures, a comfortable 
sofa or chesterfield, etc. 


The stairway leading to the upper section of the 
house is in urgent need of a paint job, ahd the 
Bathroom should be repainted yearly to maintain 

it in an acceptable condition for the Staff and Camp 
Visitors, before, during and after the regular camp 
seasone This bathroom should not be made available 
to all the Counsellors, or any Campers except in dire 
emergencies as the capacity of the drainage system 
is limited. 


The desk and various cupbeards now in the office 
should be reinforced with locks to prevent official 
information from going to the wrong people. The 
typewriter should also be placed in a case or recept- 
acle where its unauthorized use can be prevented. As 
there is not always a Staff member present in the 
office, and on several occasions, information, loss 
of valuable equipment or personal belongings dis- 
appeared. Confidential information, bills and other 
matters should be the concern only of the members of 
the staff entrusted with such facts or dutiese 


The old Food Storage room under the stairway is an 
excellent but small place to maintain supplies for 
Tuck and many other miscellaneous items. Access to 
this room as to others, should be limitede 


Though the hospital is a new building, and excellently 
furnished and decorated in every way to fulfill its 
essential function, the following items should be 
given consideration with a view to always maintaining 
it in first-class condition:= 


4. Hospital: (a) 
reatincea : 
(b) 


(c) 


\(@ 


(e) 


(f) 


5. The Dining Hall: 


(a) 


Page 4 


The flooring as constructed is not be best adapted to 
keep clean or that presents en unbroken and neat surface. 
A new flooring could be over-laid on the presant one that 
would be much more sanitary, easier to clean, much more 
presentable and last a lot longere 

With a view to the future, a flush toilet could be in- 
stalleé in the present room housing the chemical toilet 
and prevent a lot of disagreeable odours from penetrating 
the hospital roome 

The entrance door to the hospital is at the time awkward 
to open from the outside, a railing along-side the stairs 
would aid the people going into the hospital and prevent 
the door from swinging too far out, and accidents from 

a slip on the stairs. 

There is at present no eavestrofts around the roof, some 
method of collecting rain water should be devised to 
drain the building and prevent erosion on the verandsh 
and around the buildings 

Shrubs, flowers and strategic placed shade trees planteé 
around the hospital can add a great deal to the beauty of 
the building in the years to comée 

A greduated remp should be made from the hospital beé-room 
to the verandah to make the movement of beds to and from 
the area easiers: 


This new biilding has already proven itself invaluable 

to the campe A pleasant place to eat, unsurpassed for 
rainy-dey camp-fires, an excellent view, a grand meeting 
place, an attractive and outstanding cheerful fireplace, 
an efficient unit that knits the entire camp together. 
This building is the answer to a great many dreams of 
various people. The recommendations listed are the re- 
sults of the experiences of only one season and are made 
only to increase the effeciency of the building, and to 
utilize all its outstanding features to the full, not 
only during the camping season but for that great period 
of time when it can be useful before and after the 
childrens camping period. 

The stove from the old kitchen has not in actual practice 
proven very efficient, economical or as responsive as it 
should have been for the new building. Three emergency 
calls were placeé with the manufacturing concern to have 
them make adjustments and recommend proper procedurese 
After they had made the visit the behaviour of the stove 
lasted for only a very brief period and it again re-acted 
unfavourably. The top plate of the stove cracked com- 
pletely across nd a new one was ordered. This is at 
present at the camp but has not been used because of other 
difficulties and the high cost of the part it was decided 
not to make the replacement at this time but rather to 
wait for a decision of the Camp Committee and see if a new 
stove could be purchased. 


(a) 


(e) 


Ni (f) 


6.The Cabin-by~ 
the-Lake: 


Page 5 


Two electric plug outlets on the beams in the kitchen 
have never been used due to the height at which they 
have been placed and their almost inaccessibility. It 
is recommended that these be lowered to the side of the 
wall near the fireplace. The job can be done simply 
and without the need of new parts or replacements. 

In the Dining Hall proper the corner areas can simply 
have racks made to hold books and writing equipment. 
Several tables not at present in use can be made into 
temporary deskse Books can be secured by asking each 
camper attending to contribute a suitable book. The 
arrangement of such an ares would add greatly to the 
use of the hall, particularly on rainy dayse Several 
corners of the Dining Hall could also be set aside for 
the use of a Nature Museum. 

To add colour to the Dining Hall, it is suggested that 
an exchange of Pennants and Crests be arranged with 
other YMCA camps across Canada. A suitable place for 
the displaying of these would be along the top of the 
south wall of the Dining Hall. 

Additional verandsh chairs would add greatly to the 
comfort of campers and visitorse At the present time 
there are six, sturdy and comfortable chairs available, 
these are occupied on most occasions and as a result 
benches from the Dining Hall have been brought out to 
care for the over-flow. Ten more chairs of the same 
type would be useful, four more for the verandah, and 
the others could be used on the lawn around the cottage 
and hospital. 

A long rubber hose with the proper water connections 
would be extremely useful around the Dining Hall. A 
few of its many uses would be:= (1) An emergency fire-_ 
hose for the Dining Hall and Kitchen; (2) Flushing and 
washing of the verandah; (3) Watering the shrubs and 
flowers around the Dining Hall; (4) Keeping the reab 
kitchen area clean and in en sanitary condition, washing 
out garbage cans, containers and box where containers are 
kept, etc. 


This cabin needs some special attention given to it, in 
order to maintain it at anywhere near the standard of 
the other camp buildings. Minor changes were made this 
season, not all of a harmonizing nature. At the present 
time it is not an attractive building, but it is indeed 
worthy of a little more thought, attention, work and 
money to put it in good condition. 

(a) This season it was partially debarked. (A very 
difficult and unsatisfactory job.) and then white- 
washed. The whitewash did not take and streaked 
very badly. A real paint job is needed on the ex- 
terior, preferably of a grass green colour with some 
suitable other colour for trim. 


Page 6 


(b) An additional verandah should be added on the 
wouth leke sidee (The cabin originally had one 
there.) This would greatly add to its attractive- 
ness, and give an unsurpassed view, out-of=-the-sun, 
to visitors and picnicers. 

(c) The interior stairs as now used are dangerous and 
require immediate repairse New treads and a railing. 

(4) A little cheerful paint used around the interior 
downstairs would completely alter the present drab 
interior. The floor and some furniture this year was 
apinted the only available colour - —- Grey. 

(e) Better furnishings, (e,g.) beds, tables, bureaus, 
chairs and some colourful drapes and pictures would 
add a great deal to the inside atmospheree With the 
changes suggested being made, it would also be in 
keeping to alter the neme of this building to "Guest 
House" for the many people that arrive at the camp 
and are invited to stay overenight. At the present 
time, there is no suitable dwelling to offer such 
guests. Several senior members of the camp staff 
could also make this their residence during the camp 
seasONe 


7. Waterfront: After a great deal of work and effort the beach and shore- 
line this year began to show resultse The low Spring water- 
level aided in bringing back the ideal beach we have. The 
water-front is of a major importance to the camp. and with 
the increasing difficulty of moving off the land property 
for over-night camping or spots to which a hiking party can 
travel to on the Island restricted, then the only outlet 
for excess energy of the campers becomes the beach area, and 
over-night canoe trips to nearby points of interest and 
cemping spotse 


The Beach Our neighbours to the west have at considerable 

expense constructed a rock retaining wall all 
along the waterfront of their property. This wall is made 
of imported rock, three feet high, and about three feet 
away from the waters edge. They are using dirt fill behind 
it to give it a solid basee They have no dgandy beach such 
as ours in front of it, and their waterfront is completely 
covered with reeds. This rock wall extends right up to the 
edge of our property, and such a retaining wall continued 
along the contours of our property, would give us a great 
deal of sandy beach in front and stop further erosion of the 
cliff. We have a great many natural rocks along the shore 
that would be useful in making such a walle 


Piers At least two well constructed piers out into 

the lake are necessary for the docking of boats 
and to be used for swimming purposes. Such piers also aid 
nature in keeping the sand on the beach and preventing erosion 
of same by heavy wavese These piers could be constructed out 


8. 


9 


10. 


ll. 


Toilets: 


Tents and Tent 


Platforms: 


Canvas Bunks: 


Page 7 


of the natural rocks now along the shoreline or of 
conerete pyramid blocks on which wooden jetties could be 
constructed, and removed at the close of each seasOne 


Boats and Watercraft We have been unfortunate in the © 
past in the purchase of our boats. 
At the present time we have only two boats suitable for the 
waterfront. The others are not sea-worthy and after a great 
deal of time spent on repairing them they were still not 
redeemable for this year or nexte Boats are necessary for 
swim patrol and over-night trips. It is therefore recommend- 
ed that the fleet of boats be built up to at least a total 
of ten craft. One more large Hudson Bay Freight canoe or 
War Canoe should be included in this list for taking a party 
of ten at once for over-night canoe tripse 


Sunday services were held regularly in the grove of trees 

on the camp property. It was necessary on each occasion to 
take benches and tables down from the Dining Hall to use for 
the congregation. This area, with a little construction and 
levelling of the ground can be turned into one of the finest 
out-door chapels. No trees or shrubs need be cut or removed 
to build this natural area up for camp worship periodse 
White birch logs could be useé to rail off the area and to 
make a pulpit. Levelling the ground’ and rustic benches would 
complete this ideal spote 


A fresh coat of paint inside and out, re-screening and 
plenting of creeping vines would keep this place clean and 
tidy. 


The condition of the tents and fly coverings for same is 
such that at least six new tents are required before the 
next season. Many of the tents now in use are disinteg- 
rating and are dated as much as fifteen years ago, they 
were all put in as good a condition as possible at the 
beginning of this season, but it is the opinion of the camp 
director and staff that new ones are necessary next yealre 
The other alternative is to erect a permanent roof over each 
tent platform and use canvas for the sidese Many campers, 
however, objected to this when it was casually mentioned to 
them, preferring the canvass cOvéere 


This method of sleeping accommodation has proved itself as 
comfortable and suitable for the camperse However, after 
this season it was found that a large percentage of the 
canvas part had given way on the bunks and needed replacing. 
It is recommended thet a heavier and better type of canvas 
be used to replace those already torn or beyond repair. 

All bunks should be carefully examined well before the be- 
ginning of next season and repairs made. 


12. 


Grounds in 


General: 


Tree Planting: 


Over-night 


Hike Spots: 


(a) 


(b) 


(¢) 


(a) 


(e) 


(f) 


Page 8 


The area in back of the barn could be turned into a 

rough golf coursee So far it has not been utilized 

for any purposee The farmer next door did not even 

get a crop of hay from it that was worthwhile. It 

is not level ground, and not suitable for cabins or 

cottages being too far from the waterfront and too 

many bugs and mosquitoes present. 

The area in front of the barn, to the east, and behind 

the hospital has been partly developed into an Archery 
rangee This site could be further developed for 

Archery and the other section continue to be used for 
parking automobiles. 

The lone, three-quarters dead tree, on the south side 

of the road in front of the hospital, could have a bench 
erected around it, so campers and visitors could view the 
penorama view across the lake. The tree could also be 
stripped of all its bark and be used for carving the 
initials of campers on it who have attended the campe 

(This would be a natural outlet for their carving instinct 
and also a reminder of their stay at camp.) 

The road down to the back of the kitchen should be put in 
useable shape as soon as possible. The municipality on 

the island now have a garbage collection service operating 
twice a week, but with the road down not being useable for 
trucks they at present refuse to pick up from our campe 

The road is also necessary for deliveries of food, milk, 
etc., but the grade must be reduced before becoming useable. 
The other road leading down is hazardous, long and not good 
or available after a rain or heavy dew. 

Athletic Field: This area of land to the east of the water- 
taps can be developed and used as a very fine sports centre. 
The baseball field requires a back=-stop, further levelling, 
and constant trimming of high grass and weeds in the back- 
field. A cinder track could be made circling the entire 
areae Jumping pits, football goal posts and other track 

and field games could be marked out and played in this area. 
Council Circle: Rustic seats, and Indian type fence, and 
more suitable totem poles could be made to add to this area 
the proper Indian Council atmosphere. 


& general plan covering the entire area for planting of 
trees, shrubs and flowers should be made immeéiately. It 
is suggested that this should be done, if at all possible, 
this Fall. It is further suggested that, taking the long 
term view, slow growing trees be planted with quick growing 
shrubs or trees and when the shade trees have developed to. 
a suitable size, then the fast growing ones can be removeé,. 
A plan covering at least a ten year period should be followed. 


Several likely sites have been viewed at the extreme points 
on the Island. These owners should be approachéd very soon 
with a view to purchasing the sibe for use of over-night 
hike parties using them. The present Mayor of the Island, 


qg2<e? € 


aszype 


5, ¢ 


a < 


Adjacent Farm 
Property: 


Page 9 


Mr. Lalonde, has several choice sites available for 
sale or to rent on a long term basis. Mr, Lafleche, 
at the other extreme on the island has also a few 
choice camping spots availablee Property values are 
constantly rising on thé island and rapidly being 
purchased by outsiders for cottages, and within a 
few years even these spots will be beyond the camps 
financial meanse 


Committee negotiations for the purchase of the property 
next to the camp should be continued. If undesireable 
owners secure the triangle piece of farmland with a 

view to building cottages on it, the camp would possibly 
find it necessary to do some shifting of tents and cur- 
tailing of certain activities. These restrictions would 
not be in the interest of better camping for the group 

to which we are catering. Every endeavour should be made, 
at a reasonable price, to secure this land. From the 
appearnace of our next door neighbour, The Lalondes, they 
seem to have no intention of selling their land, for at 
the present time, they are extending their home building. 


