MONTREAL YelieC oho 


CAMP PERROT 


ANNUAL REPORT 


Chairman: AeRe Seaman 
Dre Preston Robb Director 


Chairman Perrot Committee 
Be Hammond 


To the Camp Board of Management, 
Montreal Y.M.C.eA» Camps for Bovse 
Gentlemen: 

The 1950 season at Camp Perrot marks the seventh consec= 
utive year that the Montreal Y.M.C.A. has operated its near-the-city 
camp on Ile Perrot. It could be described as a year of advances 
This season the camp had the highest record of attendance, with a 
total of eight hundred and twenty-sevon woekse This, coupled with 
the fact that the promotion budget was cut in half, would indicate 
that this branch of the Montreal Y.M.CeA. is indeed firmly estab 
lished. 

The excellent cooperation of the branch Secretaries in 
promoting the camp through their branches and communities should be 
recorded at this time. . Throughout the camp season it was necessary 
to refuse applications due to the large attendanco. There... : 
were only two weeks that the camp did not operate over-capacitye 

While the above facts are useful and interesting, thoy 
would have a hollow ring, were it not for the fact that the program 
was - high calibre. This was due in no small measure to the ex-= 
ceptional effort put forward by the staff end counsellors of the 
campe It was their understanding of the job to be done that con= 


tributed to the success of the past seasone 


=2ee 

PROGRAM ¢ 

In the 1949 report of Camp Perrot it was recommended that special 
provision should be made for the boys fourteon to sixteen years of age, who 
attend the camp in relatively large numbers. The Director felt at the time 
that the program set up for these older boys was not adequatoe 

After due consideration by the Perrot Committee, it was recommended 
that a third section be set up in the camp to accommodate these older boys, 
and that special program be established wherein these boys would receive an 
experience suitable to their age and ability. To this end a section of 
three tent platforms was set up near the waterfront. During the entire 
season there were from twenty to twenty-five boys, fourteon to sixteen years 
of age, in this section. The Section Director assumed responsibility for 
one tent, with two counsellors to assist him, each assuming charge of a 
tent. 

the entire program was planned by the camper group, with particular 
emphasis on out-trips and canoe tripse In all, this group took some fifteen 
canoe trips, ranging from one to three dayse Two or three permanent camping 
sites were set up in cooperation with some friends of the campe (One of these 
places in particular should be mentioned, iee, the "Christian Homes for 
Children" at Vaudreuil, which is under the direction of Rev. He Martins This 
organization owns a very fine, well equipped estate at Vaudreuil, and Reve 
Martin, time and time again, entortained the visiting parties to the extent 
of motor boat trips, horse back riding, etc. 

This new section was established also with the thought that it would 
be good training for future counsellors and counsellors=inptraining, There 
will be at least six of this year's campers who will next year come in this 


categorye While it is sometimes not good practice to single out individuals 


vegew 


in a report of this nature, it would bo amiss not to make mention of the excell- 
ent job turned in by Edgar Knight, Director of this Voyageur Sectione Knight, a 
student teacher, took his responsibilities seriously, and exhibted an outstanding 
brand of leadership, and keen understanding of the needs of these boyse It was 
the unanimous feeling of the staff that this section constituted one of the most 
important phases of the camp's programe 

It should also be stated here that the names of the other two sections 
in the camp have been chaged, the Junior Section is now the Pioneer Section, and 


the Senior Section, the Courier des Boise 


WATERFRONT ¢ 

The Waterfront Program of the camp was much improved this yeare This 
is due primarily to the fact that there was a waterfront director on the camp 
Staffe Statistics concerning the nwmber of campers who learned to swim and who 
passed swimming tests will be found elsewhere in the reporte The addition of 
three new boats, a gift of the Foremen's Club of Montreal, added considerably to 
the waterfront programe The swimming area was set up in a manner ‘ which was 
excellent for supervision and water-safetye The attached diagram will show 
clearly this set-upe 
NATURF=LORE s 

This season there was the most active nature lore program ever carried 
on at Perrote It could be said here without fear of contradiction that every 
camper this summer, at one time or another, took an active part in this programe 
A major step was made towards the establishment of a natural history museum at 
camps Some two hundred and fifty insect specimens were caught by the campers, 
dried, and mounted in a permanent display casee The camp was fortunate in having 


as one of its counsellors a merber of the Royal Astronomical Society, who 


when 

brought with him to camp a six inch telescopes This proved of great interest to 
the camperSe 

In the second week of camp one of the campers, while down at the shore, 
picked up a curious looking object, which appeared to be a fossilized bone of 
some type of animale This specimen was taken into Redpath Museum of McGill Univ- 
ersity for identification. Shortly after this, under the direction of the Water= 
front Director, a large number of bones were gathered from the same areae These 
were also sent to Redpath Museum. While still awaiting a final report of all of 
the specimens sent to McGill, we have been informed by Mrse Alice Turnham, Assis- 
tant Curator of the Museum that some of these bones are definitely the vertabrae 
of the “White Whale" which inhabitod this part of the country some six thousand 
years ago, when the area was coverod by the Champlain Seae This was apparontly 
quite a discovery as both Mrs. Turnham and Dre Maxwell Dunbar of McGill Univers- 
ity both visited the camp to see if furthér specimens of bone could be found. 
Many other bones, a piece of skull bone and a human clavicle were founde In the 
search pieces of authentic Indian pottery were also turned upe One can readily 
imagine the interest and excitement created among the campers by these discover- 
ieSe 

A unique collection of geological specimens was found by the waterfronte 
Dr. Dunbar remarked that he had never seen such a fine collection gathered in sush 
a short space of time from such a confined areae It is interesting to note that 
from these specimens that were found, the various chapters of prehistoric times 
can be traced back six hundred million yearse (It is of interest also to note 
that the oldest specimens were masses of garnets imbedded in laurentian gneiss.) 
In the dining hall fire place, constructed so beautifully of matched stones, there 
are two excellent specimens of this stone. A large glass topped case was constre= 


ucted by the campers in which these various specimens were set up and labellede 


be 


The above mentioned items of program were only a part of the over~ 
all program of tho campe Space does not permit a complete coverage of our 


programe 
GIRLS CAMP: 


Girls’ Camp was again under the direction of Mrse Ae Re Seaman, 
With her was a most competent group of staff and counsellorse 

Girls' Programe The girls made use of tho new Voyageur Section, 
although in a two week period it was impossible to carry on ag extensive a 
program as followed in boys! Campe The excellent weather and the keennoss 
of tho staff and counsellors made it possible to have a full outdoor programe 
Ninety three of the one hundred girls slept out at least once during their 
Stay at campe Overnight hikes, campfires, and meals cooked out were 


extremely popular. 


Other program items included handicrafts, boating, canoeing, 
camperaft, amateur shows, International Day, Christmas Party, Camp birthday 
party, corn roast, and many others. 

Some thirty seven girls wore taught to swim, and seventy-six 


passed swimming tests. 


=6= 

SERVICE CLUES: 

During the past year Camp Perrot received outstanding support from the 
Montreal Westward Rotary Club, Kinsmen and Kinettes of Lachine, and the Foreman's 
Club of Montreale In all some one hundred and forty boys and girls were sent to 
camp at the oxpense of these clubse The Foreman's Club of Montreal also contrib- 
uted a substantial amount of money-toward camp program equipmente 

Special commendation is duo to Mr. H. C. Patterson, Executive Secretary 
of the Lachine Branch of the YeMeC.Ae, for the effort that he put into making the 
necessary arrangements to send many Lachine children to campe This fall Mre Patt- 
erson is retiring from the Y.M.C.A. after forty two years in the Association, and 
it would be amiss not to express in this report the sincere appreciation for the 
interest that Mr. Patterson has put into Camp Perrot since its inception seven 


years agoe 


COUNSELLOR TRAINING: 

This year the Perrot Committee recommended an in=camp counsellors train= 
ing course in preference to periodical meetings in the citye To this end the 
counsellors had six full days of in=camp training, ieee week-end several weeks 
prior to the opening of camp, and four days immediately before the opening of the 
campe The proximity of Camp Perrot lends itself well to this type of program, and 
it is recommended that this be continued next seasone The results of "“on=theespot 
training" were very satisfactory, allowing the Director to see the counsellors in 
action in the camp situatione It would also be recommended that there be two or 
three evening sessions held in the city prior to the in-camp training, particularly 
to acquaint new counsellors with camp routine, rules, regulations, otce, using the 


time in the camp for more pertinent traininge 


=T< 
HEALTH s 

The matter of health this year at Camp Perrot can go down as & record 
season with no serious illness of any type to report throughout the entire 
seasone This was due in no small measure to the efficient manner in which the 
camp nurses carried out their dutiese Drse As Kelso and John Hackney of Stee 
Anne de Bellevue served as medical consultants when needede 
FOOD: 

This year the camp was fortunate in obtaining the services of a Chef 
from the Montreal High School cafeteria, a highly trained man, he produced exce 


ellent food at all times. 


VISITS s 

In the 1949 season it was noted that considerable difficulty was 
encountered with the indiscriminate mannor jn which parents visited the camp, 
and considerable effort was exerted to prevent this re-occurencee The results 
were very gratifying. There were four visiting days set aside for boys' camp, 
and one in girls' campe The visiting hours were restricted over past yoarse It 
is good to note that the parents were most cooperative in this manner, and tho 
problem of homesickness was reduced to a minimume On visiting days close to 
one hundred and twenty parents took the opportunity to come to the camp, and 


were most kind in their remarkse 


NEW EQUIPMENT: 

Three new boats were added to the fleet this year, a gift from the 
Foreman's Club of Montreal, bringing the camp fleet to six dories and two nine= 
teen foot canoeSe 

This season a dish washing machine was installed in the camp kitchen, 


and more than proved its. Value» At all times the dishes were clean and sterilee 


=Bew 


New Equipment Con'te 

This season the camp purchased a 1950 half ton Ford panel truck, 
which gave excellent service throughout the entire season, and reduced 
the budget expenditure fifty percent over the previous season with the 


old Trucke 


REFORESTATION s 

Next May eight hundred trees will be planted on the Camp 
property. Final arrangements were made this fall following a trip 
to the camp of R. Delisle. M. Velisle is director of the small 
holdings Branch of the department of Lands and Forests of the Quebec 
Government 

Mre Delisle spent half a day at the camp going over our 
property, and drew up plans for a reforstation program for the camp 


propere Four rows of trees will be planted near the cliff to make a 


wind break, Clusters will be planted around the tent sites as per a plan °: 


drawn up by Me Dolisle.e 

Next summer plans will be made for further porjects on the 
balance of the camp propertye The trees will be supplied free of charge 
by the government, the Camp being responsible for transportation 


from the government nurserye 


Dae 

RECOMMENDATIONS 
T. The fire which destroyed the cabin by the lake in 1949 resulted in the 
fact that counsellors have no place to gather in off-times, outside of the 
main camp cottagee This proved a strain on this small building, which is also 
the administration building for the campe INcluded in this building are the 
following: the director's office, business manager's office, quarter master 
stores, and a tuck shope This, coupled with the fact that it is also the 
residence for camp staff, over-taxes the buildingse 

In the recently completed survey it was recommended that a building be 
erected in the camp that would serve as (a) a craft shop, (b) accommodation 
for counsellors in off-times, (c) tuck Shop and quarter=master storess The 
construction of such a building would add considerably to the camper's program 
in that handicrafts play a vital part in program, and it would relieve the 
over=crowding within the main cottagee It is also important to note that the 
campers have to cross the highway to come up to the tuck shop and Q.M. stores, 
and this proves a safety hazarde If the above building was constructed it 
could be placed down in the camp proper, thus eliminating much crossing of the 
highway, as well as easing the strain on the main cottage es 

It is therefore recommended that this building be constricted before 


next summer's camping seasone 


2e One of the major difficulties encountered during the past years, from 
an administration point of view, was the inadequacy of proper living quarters 
for the camp director. At present the director lives in the main cottage 
of the camp above the highways This building serves as a general meeting 
place for camp staff and counsellors, as well as staff residence and camp 
administration centre. The result is that the director has little or no opp= 


ortunity for quiet or privacy. 


-10< 

The job of directing camp is an arduous and exacting Ones requiring 
long hourse The main cottage is an old building, and in no way sound proof’, 
any noise in the building is heard clearly in every roome This means that 
if there is a meeting or gathering of any kind going on in the cottage, it 
is impossible to conduct interviews or carry on any kind of worke It means 
also that the director cannot got away from camp administration any time of 
night or daye 

The Director also feels that at present he is centred too far from 
the centre of camp activitye If a camper wishos to talk with the director, © 
often it means crossing the higways prosenting a hazard to safetye 

To this end it is recommended that careful consideration be given to 
the erection of a director's cabin down in the camp propere This would mean 
that the director would have closer supervision of the camp activities, but 
at the same time would have a groater degree of privacye 

This cabin would not have to be elaborate, a small two room cottage 
would be adequate, with one room serving as a bedroom, and another for a live 


ing roome 


3e The present camp toilet facilities have been condemmed by the camp 

Board medical advisor, as the cement receptacle has collapsede This matter 
will have to recoive immediate attentione Along the same linos, the present 
chemical toilet in the hospital is entirely unsatisfactory This is not an 


expensive item, and may be purchased and installed at a very low coste It is 


recommended that a sé tic tank be installeds 


ee 


APPRECIATION 1 

The director would indeed be ungrateful if space was 
not given in this report to the many people who gave so freely 
of their time and skills in making the 1950 season at Camp Perrot 
the success that it wass 
The camp staff and counsellors for thoir loyalty and willingness to 
serve otherse 
The director of girls camp, staff and counsellorse 
The camp board of management for their understanding and supporte 
The staff of the Montreal YeMeC.A for their part in a promotions 
The Yoomen's Club of the Contral Branch for their interest and 
effort in the campe 
The many friends on Ile Perrot for their many kindnessese Particularly 
M & Mde Robilliard camp carctakerse They avr truly “friends of tho Camp". 
To Dootore Kelso and Hackney who gave unstintingly of their time 
and effort to assure the health of the campe 
Migs Vera Rutherfprd of the camp office in Montreale Hor pleasant 
disposition and willingness assisted greatly in the success of the 
CAMP» 
Doctor Maxwell Dunbar and lirs Alice Turnham of McGill University 
for their fine contribution to the camp Nature Lore Programe 
Roy NeLocke, executive secretary of Boys Campse Roy is always 
at hand when needed moste 


To all these people we give the "Thanks of a Camper" $ 


Respectfully submitted 


Ae Ross Seaman 
Director 


GROUPS MAKING USE OF THE CAMP OUTSIDE OF THE 
REGULAR CAMPING SESSIONS s 


Groups from all Branches of the Montreal Y.M.C.A. are encouraged 
to make every use possible of the facilities offered by the camp for both 
camping and social programe This year fourteen different groups used the 
camp, often more than once during the seasone 


St. Matthias Anglican Church Picnic 150 
Westmount Y.MeC.Ae Conference 25 
Rosemount United Church Picnic 250 
Central "Y" Saturday Nite Club (3 visits) 200 
Saint James Apostle Scouts 18 
Chalmers United Church Young People 60 
Rosemount United Church & Y.M.CeAe Conference 29 
Central Branch City Camp 7 
Westmount Y.MeC.A. City Camp (2 visits) 28 
Point St. Charles Branch City Camp 5 
International Y.M.C.A. City Camp 9 
Westmount Y.M.CéA- Young Adults 28 
Point St. Charles Branch Conference . 30 
Lachine Branch City Camp Picnic 60 


(Boys' Camp) 


Ae Ross Seaman 


Be Ge Knight 
Ge We Taylor 
Je He Klein 


P. Me McFarlane 
Miss M. Patterson 
Miss Jean Snyder 


Ce McMichael 
Ee Zimmerman 
Ae Higgs 


Re Bowman 
Te Shannon 
P. Brewer 
Fe McKeen 
Je Duggan 


Te Noseworthy 


M. Gingras 
De Williams 
Re Botham 
Ge. Parker 
Ge Roberton 
Ee Belford 
Ce Collins 
Celele*s 

C. smith 


We Jones 


ADVANCE GUARD: 


STAFF 


Director 

Voyageur Section 
Courier de Bois 
Pioneer Section 
Waterfront Director 
Nurse 

Business Manager 
Chef 

Kitchen Help 


Counsellors 


(Girls' Camp) 


Mrse Ae Ross Seaman 
Mrse Ee Mayotte 
Miss Ae Parkinson 
Miss T. Horsey 


Miss He Marshall 


De Adamson 

Re Hisenach 
Ae EHisenach 
Ne Dimianohuok 
M,. Chislett 
N. Lachapelle 
Me McLeod 

E. Bradley 

D. Hooker 

P. McLashan 
Qe Norman 

A. Higgs 

C. Gibbs 
Cel T.'s 

Ruth Loshaw 


Again this season the members of the Point Ste Charles Branch of the YMCA 
accepted the responsibility of acting as advance guard for Camp Perrote 
They devoted many week=-ends at the camp preparing for the summer activite 
iese While they do enjoy these week-end excursions, nevertheless it is an 
outstanding contribution that this group make to the campe 


Camp Perrot Waterfront - 1950 


|e Water feowe 
Guard, = D1Rec10® 


STATISTICAL REPORT 


WEEKS CAMPERS TOTAL 
YEAR BOYS GIRLS BOYS GIRLS CAMPERS 
1948 358 178 
1949 588 189 223 100 323 V 
1950 635 193 


299 100 399 ~ 
—_~ 
oe Ab% 
000 ~\a' 
Number of boys taught to swim 
Number of swimming tests passed 102 


Out of 79 non=swimmers who came to camp, 52 passed their green cord test, 


Of the remaining 27 boys were able to swim a short distance, but not suff- 
ificient to pass the first camp tests. 


Number of boys going on overnight hikes and canoe trips 280 
Number of visitors 720 


Number of campers for each week of camp: 


June 23rd = July 3rd 88 
July 3rd to July 10th 107 
July 10th to July 17th 115 
July 17th to July 24th 100 
July 24th to July 3lst 120 
July 31st to August 8th 99 
August 8th to August 15th 99 


August 15th to August 22nd 94 


