EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT 
1951 


MONTREAL YMCA 


Dr. J. Preston Robb 
Chairman 

E. Hanmnond 

Perrot Comnittee 

&. Ross Seanan 
Director. 


Vv 


CAIIP PERROT 1951 REPORT 


fo The Camp Board of Management 


Gentlenen: 


Nineteen fifty-one has proven to be one 
of the most successful seasons the camp has experienced. 
With a near capacity registration throughout the entire eight 
weeks, a staff of highly skilled and interested persons, well 
trained counsellors plus the unexcelled equipment of the 
camp all contributed to a successful eighth year of operation. 


The season's highlight was the dedica- 
tion of the Laddie Millen Mcmorial Handicraft Work Snop on 
July 29th. The workshop building with complete equipment for 
both boys' and girls' Handicrafts was the gift of 
lir. J. Earnest Millen in memory of his late son. 


The Montreal Westward Rotary, Foreman's 
Club of Montreal and the Lachine Kinsmen's Club continued 
their excellent support of the camp in sending a large 
number of needy children for a holiday in the country. The 
Foreman's Club also contributed towards new canp equipment. 
The interest shown by these service clubs in the camp is most 
gratifying and encouraging and the deep appreciation of the 
camp should be accorded these service clubs at this time. 


oo 
COUNSELLOR TRAINING 


Counsellor training course this 
past season included two evening sessions 
at the Central Y.1i.C.A, in May a week- 
end practical treining course at the camp 
and e four day in-camp course prior to 
the opening. The director also sent out 
four training kits which were mineo- 
graphed forms discussing such topics as 
discipline, water safety, rainy day pro- 
gran, camp organization and camp standards. 
This course of training while it could be 
lengthened, allows time for considerable 
training. The opening of camp was post- 
poned three days over the previous year in order to assure that 
all counsellors and staff could be in camp for the pre-canp 
training period. 


PROGRAM 


This past season particular emphasis 
was placed on pre-camp program planning with members of the 
progran staff. Each of the three sections based their progran 
on a thene. 


The Pioneers' (10 to 11 years) program was evolved about the 
Indian theme. Small imaginations thrilled to the way of the 
Indian with council ceremonies, Indian skills and crafts. Much 
of the history of the Indian activities about the district 

was revealed to the campers. 


Campers in the Coureurs de bois section (12 to 13 years) 
struggled successfully with the skills of their predecessors 
in order to receive their "powder horns" as recognition of 
their achievenents. In the Chief's cottage hangs ea powder 
horn with the names of the successful canditates inscribed. 


True to their nane the Voyageur Campers (13 to 16 years) spent 
nore tine on the Ottawa and St. Lawrence Rivers than in camp, 
following the routes taken by the Voyageurs of long 

ago. 


PROGRAM (Cont'd) 


The traditional program features 
of the canp which each year are called 
for by the campers played an important 
part in the all canp program. These 
included Christmas Day, the Canp Birthday 
party, the circus, Moldy Gloves Boxing 
Tournanent, Penny Carnival, Olympic Meet, 
Indian Ceremonies, the closing Banquet 
and the opening and closing campfire 
cerenonies. 


GIRLS' CsiiP 


Tie girls' caiip this season 
set soriething of e recorc in that the sun shone only four of the 
fourteen days. Despite this difficulty the girls enjoyed a fine 
camp session. 


f. canpers' council took responsi- 
bility for planning each day's progren and assisted in carrying 
it out. 


Of the one hundred and five girls 
who attended canp this sunner forty-seven were successful in 
attaining Junior and Interuediate Red Cross swimnuing certificates. 
The new Laddie Millen Menorial Handicraft Shop had great appeal 
for the girls, lir. J. E. Willen graciously supplying complete 
leathercraft equipment for the girls. It is also interesting to 
note that the girls displayed considerable interest in woodwork, 
turning out uany very fine articles. 


the cap session was the "{.nnual Fair”. This day long progran 
started in the morning with preparations for the Penny Carnival 

in the afternoon. This was followed by"supper at the Fair". 

In the evening the side shows took over with many weird and . 
wonderful acts. Girls' cap was a “singing camp" with music | 


Perhaps one of the highlights of | 


playing an important part in the progran. 


During girls' canp the 
new cap bell, a gift of the St. Lambert United Church, a 2 
was formally dedicated by the Reverend J. lacRae, 
minister of the church. 


CRAFTS 


The new Laddie iiillen Menorial 
Handicraft Shop opened up en entirely 
new field of progran at Camp Perrot 
this summer. Equipped with the finest 
tools available including power tools, 
practically every camper had the oppor- 
tunity to take home some article made 
in the shop. The shop is equipped to 
handle approxinately forty boys working 
in the shop at one tine. 


The activity witnessed in the 
Handicraft Shop morning, afternoon and 
evening from the tine the shop was opened clearly showed the 
significant part it will play in the camp program in the years 
to come and will be nost gratifying to the doner. 


HEALTH 4.ND SAFETY 


The camp experienced another 
season of good health and was free from accidents. There were 
the usual minor complaints and these were quickly and 
competently cared for at the camp hospital. 


The waterfront activities were 
as usual strictly supervised and completely accident free. 


BUILDINGS «AND EQUIPMENT 


Tre present overall condition of 
the camp buildings and equipment is excellent. Naturally there 
are the regular maintainance items. The previously mentioned 
Laddie iillen Handicraft Shop has added the much needed feature to 
the camp. Tukis shop is one of the most modern and conpletely 
equipped of its kind in any camp in Canada. The dining hall will 
require repainting in the Spring and the final installation of 
the septic tank at the camp hospital. 


The cement receptical 
of the camp toilet was replaced prior to the opening 
of canp following condemnation of the previous one. 
This was constructed by the local contractor along the 
lines recommended by the camp medical advisor. 


REFORESTATION 


In the 1950 season's report it 
wes announced that negotiations had been 
carried out with the Quebec Governnent 
whereby they would supply the canp with 
sone six hundred trees to commence a long 
term reforestation project for the camp. 
In tuc Spring of this year members of the 
Cosy Bocrd of Management carried out the 
first stage of this prograu by planting 
approxinately six hundred trees as per the plan set down by the 
Governnent Forestry Engineer. This Fall the planting was in- 
spected by Governnent Officials who congratulated the camp on 
the excellent job done. The planting was carried out with 
practically no loss of plants. 


Application has already been 
nade to the Government for the second lot of tree plants to be 
planted in the Spring of '52 in an area already prepared at 
the back of the camp property, this in keeping with the master 
plan for reforestation of the camp. 


ADVANCE GUARD 


For the past three seasons a 
group of young people from Point St. Charles have made a major 
contribution to Camp Perrot in giving liberaly of their tine 
for the six week-ends prior to the opening of camp. This 
group of young men and women have spent literally one hundred 
hours preparing the camp for each year's operation. The task 
for preparing a camp such as this is an arduous one and requires 
hours of painting, cleaning and repairing. The director would 
like to express here the deep appreciation of the Camp Board 
as well as his own to this group for their loyal support. This 
group includes Miss Isobel Colconb, iiiss Myrtle McLeod, Miss 
Nancy Dinianchuk, Norman licLeod, Wallace Devine, John Thompson 
and Richard Freitag. 


RECOM .NDA TIONS 


The present staff accomodation at 
the camp is now taxed beyond capa- 
city. This presents a major pro- 
blem particularly in the case of 
the camp director. At present 

the nain cottage of the camp above 
the highway is the only quarters 
for the director. This building 
Serves as general meeting place for 
camp staff and counsellors. as well 
as the staff residence and the camp 
administration building. The job 
of directing the camp is an arduous 
and exacting one. The main cottage 
is an old building with very thin 
walls. This means that if there is a neeting or gathering of 
any kind it is impossible to conduct interviews or carry on any 
kind of work. It is also felt that the director is at present 
too far fron the center of camp activities being separated fron 
the camp proper by the highway. It is therefore recommended 
that a director's cabin be erected in the canp proper. Plans 
for this proposed cabin are available through the courtesy of 

a friend of the camp. 


&. The gravel road adjoining the camp has now been paved and 
with it comes an increased safety hazard that will bring 
additional traffic past the canp. It is suggested that some 
thought be given to the possibility of some type of underpass 
which would elininete the necessity of campers crossing the 
highway. , 


5. The problem of the erosion at the waterfront has not yet been 
solved. Funds have been available to construct a retaining wall 
for the past three seasons but there have been good reasons why 
this wall could not be constructed. It was brought to the 
attention of the camp staff this year that the back wash created 
by this wall would remove the sandy beach. 


It is therefore recommended that the problem of this erosion 
be turned over to experts in this field. The 
director feels that this is a serious problem as we 
have lost some forty feet of property within the 
last three years. 


RECOMMENDATIONS (Cont'd) 


4. & coal jacket heater provides hot 
water for the camp kitchen. Near 
the close of the camp season the 
grates burned out and the door of 
the heater was smashed. An electri- 
cally operated heater could be 
readily adapted to replece the coal 
heater. It would elininate the 
necessity of handling coal and also 
provide e better service. 


5. With the addition of the Laddie Millen Memorial Handicraft 
Shop to the camp equipment, the director feels that definite 
consideration be given to enploying a fulltime Handicraft 
director for the coming season. The shop with its superior 
equipment needs someone skilled in instruction of Handicrafts 
if a proper job is to be done in this progran. Fron the time 
the shop was in operation this past season it was used morning, 
afternoon and evening. Handicrafts are to play a aajor part 

in future canp progran and if this job is to be done adequately, 
it requires the fulltine efforts of 5 coupetent person. 


6. It is becomming increasingly evident that sone type of wash 
house should be constructed in the canp. The present facilities 
are not adequate particularly in the case of the girls camp. 
The facilities at present are five taps in the center of the 
camp with no protection afforded from the weather. It is sugg- 
ested that a simple shelter with proper crainage be constructed 
in the canp. 


CLOSING 


is T:e director records here his 
deep appreciation to the many people who have a part in 
making Camp Perrot the fine camp it is for boys and girls. 


The Staff and counsellors of boys' and girls' camp. 
The Camp Board of Management. 

The Staff of the Muntreal Y.l.C.A. 

ir. O. N. H. Owens and Mr. R. Fair for their valuable 


assistance in the designing and equipping the Handi- 
craft Shop. 

Miss Vera Rutherford of the Camp Office in Montreal. 
Roy D. Locke, executive secretary of Boys" Carp. 

And to the many other friends, the 


"Thanks of a Camper." 


Respectfully submitted, 


A. Ross Seanan. 


CAMP STAFF 
BOYS" CAliP 


A. Ross Seaman Director 

E. G. Knight Voyageur Section Director 
Eric Robinson Coureur de Bois Section 
G. W. Taylor Pioneer Section 

C. Robinson Waterfront Director. 

Miss 4. Grbac Nurse 

Miss J. Snyder Business Manager 

C. Mellichael Chef 

E. Zimmerman A£ssistant chef. 


GIRLS' CailP . 


lirs. A. Ross Seaman Director 

Iiiss E. Bradley Voyageur Section Director 
lirs. P. Everard Pioneer Section 

lIrs. J. Mayotte Waterfront Director 


iliss H. Marshall Nurse 


S. Bobula P. Binns 

R. Bradley S. Spencer 
J. Duggan L. Ball 

W. Jones M. MeLeod 
E. Kenwood S. Pike 

R. Hewitt N. Guest 

P. Olshefsky E. Saunders 
D. Presley B. Warren 
D. Presley O. Norman 
G. Roberton K. Sullivan 
G. Snith i. Holmes 
J. Waid J. Walford 
D. Williams G. Mercer 
is. Kowaluk N. Lachapelle 
Oe Le Tg Ciket® 

P. Willer P. Lenay 

E. Oke 


VY 


Boys 
Girls 


GROUPS USING CAMP PIERROT 


St. Annes United Church 
Forements Club 

Westmount Branch 
Rosemount Branch 

N. D. G. Y.M.C.A. Branch 
Mtl. Westward Rotary Club 
Central Branch 

Chalmers United Church 
City Hall Ave. Branch 
Kanawana Canoe Trip 
Dominion Douglas United Church 
Rosemount United Church 
Strathmore United Church 
Phalanx 

Parents & Visitors 


STATISTICS 
CALIPER WEEKS 


1948 1949 

Boys 358 588 

, Girls 178 189 
“536 “777 


225 


100 


523 


Total: 


1950 
635 


193 
828 


NO. OF INDIVIDUAL CAMPERS 
1949 


1950 
199 
_100 
299 


150 
Ls 
916 


1546 


V/ 


