NINTH ANNUAL REPORT 
1952 


MONTREAL Y.M.C.A. 


Se Fe Kneeland, 

Chairman, 

Ee Hammond, 

Chairman, Perrot Committee, 
De Cochrane, 

Directore 


To the Boys' Camp Committee, 
Montreal Y.M.C.A. 


Gentlemens: 


The summer of 1952 was a most successful season at Camp 
Perrote Even with an almost complete change of staff and counsellors, 
the camp operated smoothly, and taking into consideration almost perfect 
camping weather, and an excellent and qualified staff, Camp Perrot enjoyed 
a perfect summers 


HIGHLIGHTS 


The season's highlight was the Montreal Foremen's Club's 
generous gi?t of a new set of wharves, which provided the camp with an 
enclosed swimming area. This added greatly to the safety of the campts 
swimming programe Also, the Foremen gave five new beautiful boats. 


The Laddie Millen Memorial Handicraft Workshop was in 
full operation this year, much to the pleasure of all concerned. At the 
end of the season Mr. J. Ernest Millen presented a skilfully hand carved 
plaque to the workshop, in memory of his late sone This plaque was carved 
by Major Stuart Forbes, and is an inspiration to all craftsmene 


SERVICE CLUBS 


The Foreman's Club of Montreal, the Lachine Kinsmen's 
Club, and the Montreal westward Rotary Clut again sent needy boys to the 
Campo 


PROGRAM 


Mre Robert Kneeland, Craft Director, ensured the success 
of the Handicraft Workshop by spending some forty hours preparing projects 
before camp opened. This procedure is almost essential in a camp where the 
average stay is only two weeks. 


Square knotting and braiding, a new craft to Camp Perrot, 
proved very popular with the boyse Keen interest was also shown in archery, 
fishing, boating, nature lore and a special group for non=swimmerse There 
is nothing more rewarding than sending home a camper who has been taught 
to swim in two weeks. There were cases of boys who went from non-swimmers 
to the advanced group in that short period. 


ties 


TRIPPING 


The keeness shown by campers for canoe trips was‘very grat- 
ifyinge Our trips covered all waters from Lachine to Carillone Even the 
youngest campers went on overnight canoe trips, accompanied by, and under the 
close supervision of theirSection Directorse The three war canoes were in 
great demand by all three sections of the camp, and many friendly argumenta 
ensued as to whose turn was next! 


As tripping depends so much on good weather, which we had 
this summer, it is hard to say whether or not the camp should invest in more 
of these large canoes. Certainly we could have used twice as many this 
summere 


INDIAN COUNCIL FIRES 


The weekly meetings of the tribes in full war dress were 
exciting evenings for everyone. The "papooses", "braves", and "warriors", 
pitted their strength and skills against each other, and the rivalry was 
very keen among the different tribes. I+ was like reliving a page from the 
past to have canoe trips coming back to camp, having followed the same water 
routes of the Indians, to be greeted by the Chiefs and Warriors and receive 
the tribal blessinge 


The atmosphere is so genuinely absorbed by the campers 
that it is strongly felt that steps should be taken during the winter months 
to obtain a large quantity of turkey feathers to enable the camp to have 
authentic headdressese 


PENNY FAIR 


The Penny Fair was a huge successe It was held on the 
last Saturday of Boys' Camp, and many parents arrived to take part in it. 
A larger turnout could be expected next year if letters were sent informing 
the parents of this very worthwhile projecte 


HEALTH s 


It was unfortunate that the camp was subjected to a rivge 
of summer flu which spread rapidly through each section in spite of every 
precaution being taken as to cleanliness and daily disinfecting of the toil- 
ets» Unfortunately the "bug" hit the camp on Saturday, and by Sunday, visit- 
ors day, half the campers and staff were incapacitated. Several campers were 
taken home by their parentse By Monday the Siege was over, and there was 
only the occasional case during the rest of the summer. We were most fort- 

unate in having Miss Marie Todd, ReN.e, who handled the situation most 
capablye Mr. Ronald Tyres, "Chief Red Fox", Director of the Iroquois Section, 
deserves an honorable mention at this point for his untiring efforts in 
keeping both camper and camp cleans 


eiges 


CAMP DEVELOPMENT 


Wharves We are greatly indebted to the For@inarita Club for providing 
the camp with the necessary funds to build eighteen interlocking wharvese 
This provides a. 60' x 60" enclosed swimming poole 


Boats The Foremants Club are also responsible for the five new 
dinghy type row boats, which have been added to the Perrot Fleete 


Stage Mrs William MacRae, "Chief Black Bear" of the Stadacona 
Section, greatly assisted in building the new stage in the barn, which in- 
creased the enthusiasm of the campers for dramatics each Saturday nighte 


Reforestation The five thousand Norwegian Spruce planted at the back 
of the camp property were all healthy and growing at the close of the seasone 


Painting The following buildings were painted this years 
The Cottage - All outside woodwork was painted. 

The Dining Hall - Background was painted green with yellow trim, and the 
windows rede It was decided to make the above colours standard for all 
buildings with the exception. ff white for the cottages All galleries and 
floors were painted greye 


Following this theme each of the three Sections had their 
own colour, and painted their lamps, brooms, and rakes to corresponds 


Perrot Kanatas (Senior) Yellow 
Iroquois (Intermediates) Green 
Stadacona (Junior) Red 


"Parliaments" - The Parliaments were painted inside and oute The Craft Shop 
should be painted next yeare 


RECOMMENDATIONS 


HEALTH? 1. Although there have not been any ill effects, the camp's 
drinking water is not as good as it should bee All reports from the Govern- 
ment's Health Department have rated it as “doubtful", even after lime was 
addede This matter should be investigated by expertse 


2e The kitchen cesspool is inadequate as there was a large 
amount of overflow lying on the surface all summer. Mr. Le C. Clark recomm- 
ended more tile drains, while Mre Robillard feels that putting tile in clay 
does not do any good, and suggests a bed of gravel under the tile. 


3. The cesspool for the hospital's new toilet is in a 
similar conditione 


whe 
RECOMMENDATIONS CONT'D 


KITCHEN : An immersion heater for the hot water tank in the kitchen 
would partially solve the problem of an overheated kitchen in the summere 


Larger counters are needed for the dish washing section 
of the kitchen as the present set up is a "bottle neck." 


A potato peeler would simplify kitchen worke 


TENTS ¢ The present tent platforms measure 12*' x 14' which is the 
sam size as the tentse Thus no allowance is made for shrinkagee In future 
all platforms should be mde 113 x 13%". Similarly the tie rails should be 
made at least two feet longer so that the corners of the tents can be pulled 
out to cover the corners of the platforms. 


All tents should be 12t x 14' x 4', 10 oze canvas, with 
extra gromets inserted on the walls just below the ropes so that the sides 
may be rolled upe 


The wind plays havoc with the tents at Perrot. At least 
six were almost completely destroyed by wind this year. The only answer is 
& more rapid replacement of old canvas along with smaller platforms which 
will allow the flaps to be tied closed during storms. 


PROPERTY ADDITION: It is strongly recommended that further efforts be made 
to obtain the property to the east of the campe This would be the first 
step in the direction of having the whole camp below the highway, and thus 
eliminate the danger of campers crossing the roade 


STAFF : A great deal of valuable program time was lost by both 
the staff and counsellors trying to keep pace with general repairs before 
and during the camp seasone A handyman is needed for at least a month be-= 
fore camp opens, as well as during the camp seasone 


The need for a Senior Section Director was also strongly 
felt this summere 


IN CLOSING I would like to thank everyone who contributed to the 
success of Camp Perrot this summere 


The Foremants Club of Montreal for their generous con-= 
tribution. 

All members of the Advance and Rear Guard for their many 
hours of painting and tree plantings 

The Staff and Counsellors of boys' and girls? camps 

The Camp Board of Management, 

The Staff of the Montreal Y.M.C.A., 

Miss Vera Rutherford of the Camp Office in Montrealy 

Roy De Locke, Executive Secretary of Boys’ Camps, 

Ae Ross Seaman, Past Director of Camp Perrot, and 

Miss Jean Snyder, Business Manager, for their helpe 


Respectfully submitted, 


De. Cochranee 


CAMP STAFF 


Boys' Camp 


De Cochrane Director 

Re Kneeland Crafts Director 

We MacRae Stadacona Section Director 

Re Tyres Iroquois Section 

Miss M. Todd Nurse 

Miss J. Snyder Business Manager 

Je Surridge Chef 

We Efimchuk Assistant Chef 
Counsellors 

Bob Stevens Waterfront 

John Winmill Perrot Kanata Section 


Peter Olshefsky 
Ross Bradley 


Eric Oke Iroquois Section 
Nick Zalany 

Neil Dyson 

Jack MacFarland 

Gordy Smith 

Peter Bondy (C.I.T.) 


Sterling Mair Stadacona Section 
Clarke Leverette 

Ed Kenwood 

Ted Howard 

John Elvers 

John Smarzik 

Ed Bordash 

Ian Roberts (C.I.T.) 


Boys 
Girls 


Boys 
Girls 


Average 


STATISTICS 


Camper Weeks 


1948 1949 
358 588 
178 189 
536 777 


1950 


635 
193 


828 


' 1961 1952 
584 589 
2038 203 
787 792 


Number of Individual Campers 


2285 
100 


523 


Stay per camper 


199 
100 


299 


792 


Lee 205 
105 103 
282 508 


NUMBER OF CAMPERS FOR EACH WERK OF CAMP 


202 weekse 


STAFF : 


COUNSELLORS 


HEALTH 


PROGRAM 


CAMP PERROT GIRLS CAMP REPORT - 1952 


Camp Perrot Girls' Camp was held from August 7th te 
2lste This was the ninth summer during which girls have 
camped at Perrote Each year sees more of the campers of prev= 
jous years returning, and bringing with them songs and ideas 
that they have enjoyed at camp, and at the same time adding 
new ideas and zeste These two weeks mean much to the girls 
who look forward to camp all years 


To greet these campers on arrival this year was a 
keen group of staff and counsellors. We were fortunate in 
having a staff who were mature and experienced in camp worke 


The counsellor group was fairly young having three 
fifteen year olds and the others sixteen and seventeene How- 
ever they were all keen to learn, and the one day of training 
before the campers arrived was of great value to theme Prev- 
jous to that they had received mimeographed mterial on the 
camp program, ideas, etc. It should be mentioned here how 
difficult it is to get both staff and counsellors for a camp 
session cf such a short term and as late in the summer as 
Perrote We are grateful to the various Y.M.C.A. Branches for 
their help in this mttere 


Health during girls' camp was excellente Much 
credit goes to the capable camp nurse who kept an ever watch- 
ful eye on the girlse 


Girls*t camp is divided into three sections according 
to age as follows, Pioneers, ten years and under, Coueurs de 
Bois, eleven and twelve years, Voyageurs, who are teen agerse 


Emphasis was placed on tent and sectional program, 
each group carrying out ideas suitable to their own age groupe 
These ideas for the most part came from the camperse Each 
tent had a “little Chief" who met with their Section Director 
and discussed the ideas from each tent groupe However, there 
were a number of all camp program items that everyone enjoyed 
and took part in, and to which the girls always looked forwarde 
These ideas again came from the campers and counsellors who 
organized and carried them out under staff supervision. These 
events included opening and closing camp fires, a fair, amateur 
night, International Day and Christmase This year Christmas 
Eve was introduced anc added a lovely opening to the Christmas 
programe It started with a Candle Light Vesper Service, and 
after “lights out" the counsellors went caroling through the 
campe 


HANDICRAFT 


WATERFRONT 


CANOEING 


OVERNIGHT 
HIKES 


-2= 


Vesper Services this year were held instead of the 
morning assémbly that had proved not too successful in the 
past. Chapel Services took place each Sunday with campers 
taking an active parte 


Leatherwork and shellcraft were introduced to the 
girls this yoare Other crafts were clay modelling, painting, 
small handicrafts, and plaster moldinge Leatherwork was 
greatly enjoyed by the older girls who showed their apprec- 
iation by making 4 beautiful key case for Mr. ds Be Millene 


The new swimming area was a boon to our waterfront 
program. At the end of camp there were only nine girls who 
had not attained their swimming cord, and even these few red 
corders were making progresse Twenty-one girls passed Red 
Gross Swimming Tests this year and received certificatese 


Although we enjoyed fine sunny weather, the wind 
was continually blowing so that it was impossible to take out 
more than one canoe tripe However, the Voyageurs particularly 
got out on overnight hikese 


Nine groups went out on overnight hikes and some 
girls slept out behind the barn at the overnight camp sites 
Our difficulty is to find suitable overnight hike spots 


RECOMMENDATIONS The following are recommendations for girls' campe 


1. That a shelter be erected over the water taps, or that a 
wash house be built, this wash house might include a showere 


2, Provision be made in the budget to provide a fully qual- 
ified handicraft instructor. This person should have no res- 
ponsibilities outside of this field in order that campers may 
work at handicrafts cutside of regularly scheduled periods 
This is the only way that all campers may participate during 
the short time they are there. 


3. That a record player be purchased as part of camp equip- 
mente 


aS oe : 

RECOMMENDATIONS 

CONT'D 4. That a portable organ be purchased for use in Chapel and 
Vesper Servicese This would be an asset in boy and girl's 
campe 


5. It is recommended that all campers (girls) should have a 
medical examination within two days of leaving for campe It 
is felt that this would add much to the health and welfare 
of the camperse 


6. It has previously been recommended *hat a Womens' Comm- 
ittee be formed to give active assistance to girls' canp. 
It is recommended that this Committee be formed at anearly 
datee 


CONCLUSION In closing I would like to express my sincere 
appreciation to the Camp Staff and Counsellors who wrked 
so well this last summer; also to Mrs. D. Cochrane and Mrse 
Re Kneeland for their wluntary help with Leathercrafte 
The co-operation and help of the Director, Mr. Cochrane, 
was much appreciated by the Girls' Staff. 


Respectfully submitted, 


Margaret Seaman, 
Girls’ Camp Director. 


