FILE Copy 
METROPOLITAN © OFFICE 


OF MONTREAL 


POINT ST. CHARLES BRANCH 


ANNUAL REPORT 


FIRST STEPS INTO THE 
__ SECOND CENTURY __ 


CENTRAL PROGRAM AND PHYSICIAL ACTIVITIES 


A. TWENTARNY - CHAIRMAN 


A surprising step took plece in the number 
of members in the teenege groups The boys and 
young men from 14 to 20 end the girls from 14 to 
16 formed the mein source of new members during 
1952. The Seturday night teenage dances proved 
tc be the mein sttrection. Members who ceme 
for this activity soon found out more ebout the 
reguler progrem end heve teken an active pert 
in it. 


Due to the lack of adequate facilities for 
individuel groupprogrems, it was necessery to 
meet the needs of the teenegers through mass 
activities. Some groups, however, have been 
formed end the beses leid for others. 


A Phelenx Club ( ® group for young men over 
17) wes organized during the fell end it has plenned 
e very worth while program. 


Due to the loss of the capable leedership 
of Mary Jeen Seunders the Y-Ettes girls club stopped 
holding meetings in the spring. There is great 
need for leadership for girls! teenage groups. 


The girls' gym classes heve continued to be 
the mein progrem for girls only. They took en 
active pert in the gymnestic display held during 
the spring. 


The older bovs orgenized themselves into a 
four-team ‘BasketbeallHovse Leegue. Games were 
being pleyed on Tuesdav evenings until the repairs 
were sterted on the gvm floor. 


BOYS' WORK COMMITTEE 


J. “. Long - Chairmen 


Our steps with bovs 10 to ly yeers of ege hes been 
meinly in the field of club work. Gre - Y (Grade 
School YMCA)Clubs were held after School for boys 
from grades through 7. N. Ye (Neighbourhood 
YNCA) Clubs were held in the evenings. Speciel 
physicel grovps were held both after school, in the 
evenings end on Saturdey mornings end #fternoons. 
There were specific times, too, when the bovs hed 
gym clesses for #11 members, the use of the gemes 
in the Gemes Room, end sponteneous gemes of floor 
hockev in the besement ereas. 


Cemp Chemplein wes the Point S+. Cherles 
Y.’.C.A. city - dey cemp for boys held during the 
month of julye Supervised outdoor activities were 
the mein progrem, which elso includes swimming, tours 
of industries, end pleces of interest, crefts, speciel 
speskers, end overnight cemping. Camp Champlein 
wes held in the Certensry United Church. 


A new venture hes been the work with the girls 
of gredes 5,6 end 7 of Lorne School. With the help 
of the gym instructress, two Girls Gre - Ys heve 
been orgenized. One efternoon each week has been 
devoted to » progrem of gemes and squere dancing 
for bovs end girls. ' 


The work which the Y.MeCeAe is doing with both 
the boys end girls is onlv possible throvgh the 
volunterv help of older people. This work can be 
expended if more volunteers ere obtsined. 


HOUSE COMMITTEE 


H. W. HOLMES ~ CHAIRMAN 


1952 wes ® year of meny changes in the 
eccemmodetion of the Point St. Charles YMCA in 
Lerne School. 


Repairs were mede to the gymnasium during 
the summer months which prohibited the use of the 
building by the ‘boys ef “Camp Chemplein." 

During November the eccommodation on tho Ist 
flour wes required by the School Boerd, end the 
alternetive space in the basement wes not 
aveileble until the end of the yeer. The 

floor of the gymnasium was torn up by the middle 
of December end was not completed until 
mid-Janusrv. 


The result of these leter repsirs was that 
only the large besement ereas w ere aveileble for 
progrems. This neturslly ceused some decline 
in ettendence end membership renewels. 


The final result, however, has been en 
overall improvement in our eccommedeation, end 
the space eveilsble for ectivities. 


Ge McPHERSON = CHAIRMAN 


The Y.M.C.A. of Montreel is one ef the 
outstanding supporters of the work of the YoM.C.A. 
in others countries. The main werk of the Y.M.C.A. 
Interneatione] Committee is to provide leaders who 
develop the Y.M.C.A. in the courtries to which they 
sre sent. The results ef this policy ere seen in 
the strong Y.M.C.A.'s in Asia, South Americe, end 
the revivels in Europe since the end of the war. 
{In 1952 Montreel contributed $30,350 = ef this 
the Point St. Cherles Brench objective of $100 
wes secured. This small sum w es reised through the 
ceoperetion of all members by individuel contribution, 
sele of Christmas Cerds, and coca-colas st the dances. 


SPECIAL EVENTS 


The Annual Gymnestic Displav was an outstanding 
step forwerd this veer. The demonstretion of the 
Senior and Junior Tumbling Clubs wes rated very 
high. The progrem elso featured precision 
merching by the Preps, # Commendo race by the 
Juniors, end items by the Girls! Gym Class. 


A Point Svorts Council wes organized to 
essist in the «peretion of community - wide house 
lesgues for boys in the sessonal sports. Under 
this council the YVCA developed a Basketball 
Training Course for all bovs 14 snd under. The 
Course wes cepablv handled by Megnus Flynn, 
Athletic Director of Sir George “illiems College, 
and members of the "Georgians" Besketbell Teem. 
Gemes in the house lesgue were pleyed at the 
79th Bettery end the Y.M.C.A. 


YMCA _- Sir George Williems College Building Fund 


Cheirman = Hugh C. Fetterly 


Members end friends of the Y.N.C.A. 
united under the capable leadership of our 
Cheirmen to raise the largest emount in the 
history of the Point St. Charles Y.M’.C.A. This 
yeer's cempeign wes for *3,300,000. The main 
objective was to secure the funds to erect a 
building for Sir George Williems College, 
edjecent to the Centrel Y.M.C.A, Additions to 
Southwestern, N.D.G., end Central YMCAs and new 
buildings for Northmount end Lachine Branches, 
were also included in the objective. 


Point St. Cherles residents heave found the 
value of Sir George Williams College snd Schools. 
Meny of them heve their formel education by 
attending the Elementerv end High School, end 
the Dav or Evening College. Rhe result of the 
cempeigh, while not 100% is sufficient to stert 
ell the projects. 


MEMBERSHIP COMMITTEE yy, 
a 


H. Broadley - Chairman 


Registered 
Paid 


Members Dec. 31/51 185 
Members Dec. ai 375 


Boys 


154 
Young Men(18 to 2h))3 
Men ( 25 & over) 23 
Girls 148 
Women(18 & over) 7 


A 


f 


a f 
Registered. Total 


Not Paid > 


194 519 
182 557 
135 289 
157 58 
23 

32 180 
; 


New Members 305 Untenewed Expiries 115 Gain 190 


Total Different Members During Year 509 


PARTICIPATION 
Number Total 
No. Enrollment of Sessions Participation 
Clubs T2 1 C 919 
Clesses 11 191 190 3042 
Teams 32 312 131 2520 
Special Interest Group 5 106 61 116) 
Committees 13 65 62 340 
Camp Chemplain 1 17 50 1054, 
Reguler Gen. Activities 18 375 11186 
Special " " tT 21 1195 
Totals 
103 855 1006 21,480 
Members Home Arees 
Point St. Charles 221 7h, 6% 
Verdun 3 11.4% 
St. Antoine 19 5 5% 
Other # 32 8.5% 
Total 375 100.% 


‘# Includes Ville LaSalle, Lechine, N.D.G., Ville St. Lavrent, 
Rosemovnt, Town of Mount Royal, Perk Extension. This gives 
an indication to where Point St. Charles people have moved. 


1952 


en. eS 


J. « Long - Chairmen 

J... Shields - Vice Cheirren (“esipned - moved evar) 
C. thrberdt - Secretearv 

DeA. verper - Finance 
*, Broedley - lembershinv (Pesigned - moved evar) 
‘, Trerterny- General Prorrer. 
I.” . *olmes - Fouse Committee 
L. i:elie - i} etropoliter Ye--. Committee 
G. icPrerson -orld Services. 

he Lerrison 

P. Surrovs 

Ne ' cCCreight 


R.0. “irkhem (Pesigned = ill heelth) 
T. Teitley (Fesigned - ill heelth) 
", Leetherberrow (Pesipne’ - Business ) 
T. Levitt (Pesipned - Rvsiness ) 
Je tore (Cesipned -i11 heelth) 


Epa R Se cash al 


S. “neelend i'rs. f+ t'. Buckler Pev. G.Fe "eigh 
Hugh C. Petterlv (Finencisl Cempeign Chetrmer ) Dr. *. G. Pers 


Statement cf Purpose 


cee Vas eae 
The Yovng Men's Christian Association is a world-wide 
Fellowship of men and bovs united in a common lovaltv 
to Jesus Christ for the purpose of building Christian 


personalities in a Christian society. 


Voluntery Leeders 


Y-Httes Girls Club Yarv Jeen Seunders 
faturday morning ice hocv-ey Grehem F~ench 
Tumbling Clubs — Pov Normen 
Model firplane Club Roper Carter 
3ovs N.Y. Clvbs Normen }cLeod 

Cvril Pichardson 
Riddy Beszetbell Teem Albert shepherd 
Gemes Poom Supervision C, Ehrherdt 


¥. Gearev 
R, Ee Kirvhem 


Helpers - ‘e*erees + Timekeevers 


Keny voung men and women, end boys end girls geve outstanding 
service ecting es referees, end timekeepers, giving cut gemes 
end equipment, supervising vleving erees, decoreting the new 
Club Room, end soliciting in the Finenciel Cempaign. Their help 


vy 


was needed ~ the work of the ¥.M.CeA. covld not continue without them. 


stert 

J. Gordon Clerte “xecutive Secretery 1 
D. A. Luger Prrvsicel 

G. Plevfair (Jen - Nay) , (Aovs end 

Gel. 1ePee (Oct - Nec) ( Teensrers 

’. Crombie ( Jen -! ey) \Girls Phvsicel 

D. Fleming ( Oct. - Dec) \Girls Physicel 

C. Bradley (Oct - Dec) Bovs 


Finence Cemmittee 
Se A. Semper - Chairman 
Total exvenditures (school rental, sdministretion, #8, 05), 53 
eauipment and vrogrem) 


Totel receipts — membership end vrorram 22,048.87 
X Oversting deficit 26,605.66 


X Amount received from Joint Fund, fer which tre Finencial 
Campaign is held. 


IN APPRECIATION 


Je GORDO CLARKE - RRECUTIVE SECPPIFRY 


The first year in the second century of 
YMCA work in Montreal hes passed. A step into 
the future has been taken and become history. 
The mein imprint will be the increased work with 
the teenegers - boys end girls ly yeers of ege 
and over. The foregoing reports give the facts 
end figures. Here we wish to express our 
epprecistion of all that has been done by our 
members and friends. 


The co-operetion ef ell concerned with Lorne 
School has continued to be a source of great joy. 
The caretaking staff, the teachers, the principal, 
end members of the Protestent School Board of 
Greater Montresel, have 811 contributed to the 
success of our work. 


The work of the chairmen, team cepteins and 
workers in the YMCA = Sir George Williams Building 
Fumd cempeign, was outsterding. Thev heve had 
the privilege of helving to make & sounder future 
for the youth of Montreal end -districts Theirs 
is the satisfaction of ® job well done. 


The other orgenizetions working with the vouth 
of Point St. Charles have been co-operative. The 
formetion of the Point Sports Council wes 9 great 
edvancement. 


A tribute must be paid to the parents who 
heve shown their interest, the volunteryv leaders 
who heve helped in many end varied capscities, 
end the Boerd of Menagement who have underteken 
the responsibility for the Branch. The staff 
too, have contributed greatly to the success of the 
year's work. 


Apprecietion is given to the countless 
number of individusls who have helped in the 
operetion of our progrem. Steinbergs! Dey et 
Belmont Perk is the peak of the summer progrem. 
Visits to industriel plants help give the bovs 
en insight into the outside world. The facilities 
of the Montreel Playgrounds, the coverage of the 
press, and the support of tke ether Brenches of 
the Y.M.C.A. of Montresl heve contributed to the 
success of our program. 


The work of the Y.M.C.A. is only possible 
through the co-operation of the community, the 
schools, the churches and the homes. Its basis 
is the sound Christier principles that guide us. 
With vour prevers and God's help, the work of the 
Young Men's Christian Association in Point St. 
Cherles will continue to serve the youth of Canada 
end of the World. 


