STATISTICAL REPORT 
——— ee 


CAMP PERRO? 


Tenth Annual Report 
1953 


Montreal VoMia Gots 


‘Chairman, Chairman, 
Boys! Camping Committee - SF. Knee land:Camp Perrot Committee - S- Mackey 


Director - Donald Cochrane 


Committees 
Bruce Campbell] Y John Ae McGiffin 
George Campbell v Dre Preston Robb 
CeJs Campbell EeH.e Sampson 
PeJ. Fisher v SsAe Semper 
Allan Forbes = JeF We Smith 
Henry F. Halle AeRe Twentarny 
Ae Hamilton wv John Venters 
WedeCe Hewetsone O.N.H. Owens 
John F. Lewis Donald Cochrane 
Gordon Mackey ' ‘Don Dewar 


DeRe Melville Roy De Locke 


To The Boys! Camp Committee, 
Montreal Y.MsC.A. 


Gentlemen: 


With the return of Mre Robert Kneeland, Crafts Director, and 
Mr. William Mack8:, Junior Section Director, and the addition of Mr. 
William Osterman, with ten years camping experience, Camp Perrot was 
ensured a successful 1953 seasone In fact, I have never enjoyed a 
camping season as much as this past summer, 


Highlights 


Once again we are indebted to Mr. J» Ernest Millen. This 
summer he presented the Camp with a portable threespeed gramophone, 
$100.00 for Crafts material, and-plans to add a bandsaw to the Craft 
Shop next spring. 


The Foreman's Club of Montreal, aftor having presented the 
Camp with twenty wharves for the Swimming Pool, feels that it cannot do 
enough for the boys and girls of Montreal and now plans to build a much 
needed Recreation Hall for Camp Perrol. Two thousand dollars was donated 
by this group as the first step towards this noble project. 


Program. 
Morning Interest Groups 


Once again the Handicraft Workshop was in continuous operation 
under the skillful supervision of Mr. Robert Kneeland. As usual, woodwork 
in the Craft Shop proved most successful, with archery and boating in second 
place, and with braiding, bait casting, wood carving, clay modelling, 
nature lore and woodsmanship falling in the above order. 


Tripping 


The Camp's three nine-man war canoes were greatly in demand by 
all campers. With the addition of life-jackets, as an added safety measure, 
tripping was extended to the younger camperse Having accompanied three 
canoes of tho youngest boys (ages 10 and 11) on an over-night trip to Pine 
Island, which is 6 miles from the Camp, I found them very capable and keen. 


In a camp such as ours, where program and hikes are limited due 
to the lack of wooded areas and the location, canoe trips fill the gap and 
adds greatly to the campers experience, for tripping is camping in its 
truest sense. 


Some 160 campers went on trips from 2 to 5 days plus 20 counsellors, 
C.leTs, and staff members. 


Indian Council Fires 


New life was added to the council fire programs with addition of 
Chief Tomahawk (Bill Osterman) and his well planned Indian wars which 
provided a variety of physical activity for the braves and warriors but 
nearly crippled older members of the Perrot Councill 


The background props for Council Fires was greatly improved 
with the planting of 100 cedars around the ring, the addition of 16 
railway ties for seats, 2 more totem poles, and the mowing of the grass 
which has almost turned the ring into a lawn. 


We are slowly building up our Indian costumes but still have 
trouble getting turkey feathers. 


The Backwoodsman's Day 
cichlids 


This all-camp program was very successful. It consisted of 
true competition in log-sawing, pack-sack relay races, knot-tying, 
tent pitching, fire lighting and pancake cooking. The program ended 
with a cooksout. It was thrilling to see 16 fires, ina large. circle, 
in operation and the campers trying to flip pancakes. Some were surprising 
good at it. 


Perrot Penny Fair 


A very successful Penny Fair was held this year.» The parents 
were notified in advance and came out en masse to support this worthwhile 
cause; all proceeds were donated to World Service. 


Some campers ate as many as eight hot-dogs, without any ill- 
effects. "Get a kiss from the Nurse" was the most popular booth. 


Other program highlights, enjoyed by everyone, were the Saturday 
night shows, especially The Staff Shows; the Masquerade Birthday Party, 
Indian Decathlon and the many swim meets, regattas and tournaments. 


Waterfront 


Owing to the unlimited energy of Steve Montague, Waterfront 
Director, a hundred boys passed Y.M.»C.A. Swim cards. Steve was instrumental 
in the construction of the railway tie wall at the bottom of the bank in 
the swimming area. ; 


Health 


Under the able supervision of Miss Norma Anjo, ReNe, the 
hospital operated smoothly with only minor casualties. From records kept 
by the nurse, it was found that the average campers gain in weight was 
33 poun¢se The counsellors! average gain was 6 pounds with Eric Oke topping 
the list with a gain of 15 pounds. It is interesting to note that Eric was 
out on canoe trips most of the summer. 


Visits to the hospital: Campers - 350, Counsellors-100, Staff - 2. 
Camp Improvement 
Painting - All buildings have been painted within the last two years. 
The south-west sides of the dining hall and "Parliaments" 


should be painted next year with extra linseed oil being 
added to the paint. 


Grounds - The large hedge around the cottage was cut back three feet. 
The lawn on the west side was levelled and seeded. Considerable 
work needs to be done on the rear lawn. A power driven lawn 
mower was bought in an attempt to develop lawns across to the 
hospital, in front of the dining hall and in the Council ring. 
The ground in the hospital area needs to be rolled next Spring. 


- All the apple trees were pruned but need more. 
- Cedars were planted in beds in front of the dining hall. 
Reforestation - Another 5,000 spruce were planted in the back half 
of the camp property, giving a total of 10,000. About 100 
Spruce wore planted along the top of the bank at the waterfront. 
Several rows were placed along the ditch in the lower half of 


the camp. 


- Several pine-trees have been planted in the lower camp and 100 
cedars around the Council Ringe 


- 100 poplar have been ordered from the Government for the 
waterfront next spring. Many wild poplar and willow are 
Sprouting up all over the newly graded bank. 


- 10 small lilac trees were transplanted from the cottage to 
the lower camp. 


- All trees were doing well on my last visit to the camp on 
October 9th. 


Chapel 
Twenty old railway ties were obtained for seats in the chapel. 
Waterfront 


The heavy canvas donated to the camp by Mr. Frank McPhee 
greatly enhances the wharves. 


- Another twenty ties were built into a wall along the waterfront. 


- Several tons of rock were removed from the shore this summer 
thus allowing the sand to be washed ine This is resulting in 
a nice beach similar to the one to the east of the camp property. 


Cesspool Systems 


- More tile, set in gravel, plus another cesspool was added to the 
system leading from the kitchen in order to handle the overflow 
which was appearing on the surface. Similar steps were taken to 
handle sewage from the hospital. 


New Pump 


As there are two wells on the camp and the pipe system is so 
arranged that either well can supply the whole camp or one 
supply the cottage and hospital while the other supplies 

the dining hall and lower camp; a new electrical siphon jet 
type pump was bought for the cottage well. 


Drinking Taps 


The area of the drinking taps in the lower camp is an eye soree 
There is poor drainage and the ground is always wet and muddy. 


The rule has been that the taps are for drinking and teeth 
brushing only, the river to be used for washing but everyone 
washes at the taps anyway. 


As there seems to be an ample supply of water, we should build 
& proper wash house and include showers. 


Kitchen Staff Quarters 


Kitchen 


Canoe and 


There is a real need for living quarters other than tents for 
the kitchen staff. Both the kitchen and the tents are extremely 
hot during the summer, then there is no place for them to relax 
comfortably during their short breaks from the kitchen grind.. 
It is suggested that a 2 room bungalow with a gallery and an 
inside toilet be constructed in the area back of the kitchen. 


An immersion heater for the hot water tank, in place of the 
jacket-heater would partially solve the problem of an over- 

heated kitchen in the summere It would also eliminate the dirt and 
and dust encountered in handling coale 


Paddles 


There is need of another war canoe and 2 dozen shorter paddles. 


Waterfront 


Trees 


The soil washed out of the new embankment should be replaced by 
stonee This would amount to approximately 400 tons. The cost 
delivered would be (1.75 per ton ($700.00) as quoted by Mre Ee 
Leduc, the camp's local contractore 


As the tents are still without protection from the wind and the 
thoughts of waiting 15 years for trees to grow is very 
discouraging, it is suggested that a sum of money be obtained 
for larger treese 


In Closing 


I would like to thank everyone, who contributed to the success of 
Camp Perrot, 1953. 


Mr. Je Ernest Millen for his continued support of the camp. 
The Foreman's Club of Montreal for their generous donation. 


Mr. F.Be. Walls, Vice President of the Montreal YoM.CoAs, for 
the nylon Union Jack. 


Mr. Frank McPhee for his generous gift of heavy canvas to cover 
the wharves. This eliminates the hazard of boys slipping on the wood 
and contributed greatly to water safety. 

Mr. Victor Daoust, building contractor, who kept the campers 
supplied with firewood. As there is little, if any, wood available 
on the camp, this thoughtfullness of Mrs Daoust kept the camp fires 
burning brightly. 


The "Y"'s Men's Club of the Westmount Branch of the Y.MeC.A. for 
painting the hospital and Craft Shop. 


All members of the advance and rear guard for their many hours 
of hard work. 


The Staff and Counsellors of Boys' and Girls* Camp. 
The Camp Board of Management. 
The Staff of the Montreal YoMeCeA. 
Miss Sheila Dover of the Camp Office. 
Roy De Locke, Executive Secretary of Boys* Campse 
My sincere thanks. 
Respectfully submitted, 


Donald Cochrane. 
Director. 


BOYS' CAMP STAFF, 1953.. 


D. Cochrane 
Re Kneeland 
W. Osterman 
W..Macks 2 

S- Montague 
G. Swoger 
Miss Ne Anjo 
Je.Boeeker. 
Ne Christen 
Je Sporkeels 


Counsellors. 


Eric Oke 
Norman Wray 
Buck Kay 


Don Roberts 

Ted Howard 
Eddie Reiger: 
Graham Harrison 
Bob Raymant 


Chuck Parker (Counsellor in Training) 


Mark Shapiro 

Ted Hassall 

John Elver 

Bill Burden 

Don Sketchley 

Tony Whittall 

John Duckworth 

Ken Copland 

Jim McPhee (Counsellor in Training) 
Ed Clarke (Counsellor in Training) 


Director. 

Crafts and Senior Section Director. 
Intermediate Section Director. 
Junior Section Director. 
Waterfront Director. 

Business Manager. 

Nurse... 

Chef. 

Assistant Chef. 

Assistant Chef. 


Senior Section. 


Intermediate Section 


Junior Section... 


Roving Counsellors. 


Bob Allen 
Bob Simpson 


Boys 
Girls 


Boys 
Girls 


Weeks 


June 30 
July 7 

July 14 
July 21 
July 28 
Aug 4 

Aug 12 
Aug 19 


Average 


STATISTICAL REPORT 
tae tcc tals 


536 


Camper Weeks 
Poise: tel NE ata lo 


1949 


588 


189 
UL 


—— 


1950 


193 
828 


1951 


584 


203 
787 


Number of Individual Campers 
— ot Nv empors 


- July 7 
- July 14 
~ duly 21 
- duly 28 
- Aug 4 
- Aug ll 
- Aug 19 
~ Aug 26 


stay per Camper 2.8 wecks. 


225 


100 
323 


_—_ 


199 


100 
299 


1953 


LT 7 


105 
282 


205 


103 
508 


263 


Number of Campers for each week of Camp 
ech Wook of Camp 


