Ske 


REPORT OF 
OLDER BOYS CAMP 


SUMMER 1959 


This report will be presented in two sections, the first 
being a documentary account of what (in the opinion of the leaders) 
happened in the initial year of operation. The second portion 
will deal more with the future, including the recommendations and 
possible scope of this type of program, 


PART I 
Summer 1959 


In as brief a manner as possible, this report will now 
attempt to outline the most significant observations of the past 
summer, from both positive and negative viewpoints. 


1. What happened to people? 


In general it must be noted at the outset that the 
general ability of both the campers and the leaders was 
quite high, with the chief implication being that although 
this would be desirable it might not always be the case in 
the future. 


a -—- The camper tends to make more meaningful acquaintances 
while at camp, due to the intense experience in group 
living. 

N.Bs Lack of frequent contact with other persons out- 
side his own group, and hence a lack of outlets, dis- 
tractions, escapes etc. 


This point of course has its negative aspects. What 
about isolation in the group? Should the camper turn 
out not to fit into the group due to improper place- 
ment for example, this confinement could be quite 
harmful. 


b - The camper is able to make a closer identity with and 
hence have a greater understanding of the leader and 
his role. The increased contact and closer attention 
that the leader is able to afford, help to bring this 
about. 


c - The boy lives in a much more permissive atmosphere 
where a greater degree of self expression is possible. 


2 


Due to such factors as listed above, the boy is able 
to feel even more independent and develop a higher 
measure of self assurance, 


Because of the lack of routine and regimentation the 
camper is also able to "start to realize" that he 
is not being dominated, 


Identifies his own personal problems, and thus has a 
better opportunity to do something about it. 


Is able to share with other boys of the same age, the 
more complex problems of the adolescent, through dis- 
cussion, example, and assistance from the leader, 


Personal skills were developed to a far greater extent 
- due to a more practical application and the need for 
constant usage. 


What of the physical setup of the camp? 


a- 


b = 


Base camp on "Lake Wilson", It was in this area that 

a good deal of the problems were realized, First off, 
the close proximity of K.K. retards the natural end 
full development of the OBC and its campers. In order 
to attract and maintain the interest of the older boy, 
the identity of the OBC must be established and main- 
tained, Administration of the camp, with regard to its 
contact with K.K. was difficult and cumbersome, Trans- 
portation and the time involved was the other major 
question mark. Too much of the time was wasted in the 
process of travelling to and from camp, and then to 

the park and back etc. It is felt that this time could 
have been better spent in the park itself and to this 
end the period of time spent at Wilson was reduced as 
much as possible. Other points of concern in this 
area would be over such matters as the prestige factor 
between Pathfinders vs OBC, and of the conflict that 
did and might arrise over the use cf the Wilson camp 
sites etc. 


In "La Verendrye Park". The key note here is the 
flexibility of the area. Our experience was definitely 
positive in this regard. Space does not permit a full 
explanation of routes travelled etc., except to say 
that over the course of our six trips we were able to 
both cover and accumulate a fair amount of knowledge 


on the park proper and the areas adjacent to it. This 
is being documented and will be made available to the 
director of camping. 


c - Size of groups. 
It was found that the ratio of five boys to 
one leader worked out very satisfactorily. A group 
of such a size has several obvious advantages, 

a) Quality of job that can be done with boy. 

b) Size is very workable - good for movement in 
woods, and six is good from the point of people 
in canoes. 

c) Discipline and other such considerations are 
kept to a minimum, 


d -— Equipment. 
On the whole, and with a few minor suggestions, 
the equipment as used was felt to be most satisfactory. 
N.B. Ganoes, tents. 


e —- The following are felt to be some of the more important 
questions to be askeds- 
a) Is the camp to be more than canoe tripping, and 
is so what? 
b) How can we improve on the selection, and place- 
ment of campers? 
c) Whet about the boy who gets to camp, but who is 
unable to fit in? 
d) Should t!ere be supervision of the leaders on 
the trail? 
e) Interviews of the campers and/or parents prior 
to camp. 


To conclude this portion of the report, it was that the 
decision to keep the camp small in this initial year was good 
judgement. It proved to be a very workable size, and yet per- 
mitted the staff to anticipate some of the future problems of a 
larger decentralized camp of this nature. 


PART II 
Recommendations 


1. If the OBC is to be continued, it should be permantly 
established in La Verendrye Park. 


2e 


3. 


A great deal of importance must’ be placed on maintain- 
ing an exceptionally high standard for the leadership of 
such a camp 


What is important in a leader? 
a —- Must be experienced as a "leader", 
~ Be able tu recognize and help solve group problems. 
- An "individual" centered program, 
b - Must have a high degree of skills. a 
- Be able to adapt skills and techniques to the needs 
of the group. 
- Be able to transmit and relate to group. 


c — Must like this type of living. 
- Intense experience with a small group. 
- Minimum of time off etc. 
- Must derive satisfaction from same. 


d - Should be a person of 1-2 yr. college level. 
- Above the age and problem sphere of group. 


If this project is tc be continued or explored further, a 
camp under canvas would be a good step, until a final 
location is established, along with what form size and 
scope the camp is to take. 

The following is a proposed outline of such a camp. 

a — Organization 


[ pirEcToR | 
Pa 


ASSISTANT ASSISTANT 

DIRECTOR DIRECTOR 
ee ae _ 7 i ee 
| LEADER | | LEADER | | LEADER | | LEADER | 


Responsibilities 


Director - Staff supervision. 
- Food-supplies-stores-inventories . 
- Administration of camp. 
- Transportation (of trips etc.) 
~- Liason with director of camping. 


Asst.Director - Supervision of leaders. 
~ Responsible for advanced group of boys. 


fae lor riprhp, 


Dear Dave (Boss) 


A few brief comments and suggestions on the camp which is run by the 
Montreal YMCA, Most of “@ them will be familiar to you as we have dis» 
cussed this before, 


PUBLIC RELATIONS 


Kids don't get too worked up over logs while on the trail and one 
written by the tripper probably won't be a big seller, To give the 
crews something to remember camp by, I would recommend “‘g# opening up 
a store with a line of sweatshirts. The appeam] of these is primarily 
(can "in thing" so I see no reason why they could not be humérous, The 
campers will know what they are for even if there is no name 
on them and others who might# see them during the year will have their 
curiousity aroused and may find out about camp, 


The confidential information form should be edited to read more 
smoothly to give a better impression and the smoking query should be 
eliminated as it is extraneous. Requests for more specific information 
might be in order if only to stimulate greater response on the general 
request for info on the back, It might be well to have the kids fill in 
such things as why they want to come to camp, past camping experience 
and family vital statistics. 


Publicity might be shifted to emphagize challenge and the rewards 
acrueing to those who overcome same, I still like the idea of two pics, 
the first showing someone in water up to his knees and the second up to 
his neck. The captions might read respectively, "This is one camp where 
he'll get his feet wet” and "If he watches his step.“ The possibility 
of a snowshoe trip for all staff and former camper should be looked 
into, This would serve as a reunion, additional publicity (how many 
other camps do this) and would offer a new challenge and camping exper- 
ience to all, This would not have to be done right at Landron, but 
in the general area of tripping if possible. 


Parents could be involved more, You might at least try to meet through 
appointment, those who cannot be at the parents night, Parents might also be 
involved by inviting them up to bring the kids home, Parents could arrive 
onthe last da y of camp and remain one extra day with their child to do 
a bit of fishing and paddling before returning home. This». ould not sub-= 
stantially interfere with the staff during the break between sessions 
or atthe end of the summer, 


eanoes (this word should have been capitalized) 


Three people can be craphjed in a canoe and getting 17 and 18 footers 
will alleviate this. At its ultimate, a crack crew with 6 kids out for a 
month may want to have (and be able to handle) 6 packs plus a seperate 
tent and cook kit, The 16 footers are just too small, The longer ones 
should be as easy to manuver as they would draw less water (same dis- 
placement), 


add 1 


All canoes should be fitted with a yoke or tump. These should be as 
standardized as possible in the event that repairs should be necessary and 
yokes should be placed on top of the as they are easier to work on, 
and make it easier to see ahead when carrying a canoe. If nothing else, 


these yokes would be made and padded during the week at “anawana, 


Repairs,..stripping the canvas and using fiberglass would save some 
canoes which have been written off in the past, The rigid coating per- 
mits use of canoes with weak planking and broken ribs, Fiberglass is 
also lighter than canvas and could be used on old canoes for young small 
campers who would be taking easier trips anyway. Spare planking should 
be salvaved and kept at base camp. (Bob's canoe could have been fixed 
had some been available). 


Color,,,Yellow is offensive to the eye and the reasons for its use 
assume an incompetance on the park of the staff and campers which may or 
may not be justified. Green is nice, but used by scouts and “api tachuan, 
Therefore sky blue is recommended as it is visable and yet appealing to 
the x eye. 


MAPS 


The map cases were totally inadequate and this could be serious when 
tripping in area never passed tele) The acrylic spray helped although 
even this could not prevent the maps from coming apart where folded, 


A complete set of large-scale maps which could be sprayed and left 
in base camp would be worth the effort, orrections, campsites and other 
pertinent data could also be kept on these, Another idea might tm be to 
put up a large board at base camp and paste the maps on it so that the 
whole area is covered, This could then be varnished and would be handy 
for planning trips, The varnish would, however, prevent corrections 
from being added, 


First Aid “its 


A colorless, non-stinging, greasy first aid cream would be of use 
as itwould be quick and slightly waterproof, thus remaining in the wougd 
after soap is washed out, Bleach (javel) would be better than peroxide 
as it has greater chemical stability and its chemical reaction exax 
(oxidation) is identical to peroxide, 


The number of band aids could be cut and more gauze pads added as 
the latter are far more versatile, Non-waterproof adhesive tape is 
an advantage only when a large area is to be covered for a protraced 
period, Since a person with a really serious injury would be taken off 
the trail in all probability, waterproof tape should be packed, It 
holds better and can also be used for some general repairs, 


A small curved needle should also be packed with thread for extremely 
serious cuts, Antibiotics should be carried for the trippers at least 
since our operation is so small that replacements are impossible to get. 


add 2 


PACKS 


Packsfeould be ordered with slightly larger dimensions as this 
would give them a lower center of gravity and keep them from flopping 
around so much, A design which did not have any straps on thek top 
to grab and rip would also be good, These packj/did not close Jgpy 
tightly at the top and small if frequently would fail out of over- 
loaded packs, 


Packs should be able to take tump lines but these should not be a 
necessity. 


Tent and Cook Kit 


Cylindrical sheaths of heavy canvas should be obtained for carrying 
tents and cook kits, These can be carried in the arms to offset the 
weight of a pack or simply tossed up to ride on the packs, 


Tenfqt/ should be heavy canvas and 6% or 7 feet square, Waterproof 
compound may be necessary to eliminate flyg Design is unimportant 
except for ease and speed of pitching, 


Tin plates would be a good addition to cook kit as they are handy 
in food preparation and may actually be placed over fire without harm, 
Reflector ovens which are lightweight and small might be worth an in- 
vestment, Canvas sheathe for these (and perhaps for grates) would also 
be worthwhile , 

GEOGRAPHY OF BASE CAMP 


Base camp is not in too good a location as there are tourists, noise 
from route 30, no convenient route in or out of camp which has not been 
logged and access to water systens is not especially good. For starters, 
the northera side of Camachigama lake or Portage Bay would give better 
tripping access and eventual location in an area like Chibougamou (?) 
might be desireable, 


It would be well to check lease rightf; not only on what we might 
be able to get on “andron, but also on what we can do on the leases of others, 
Gan we, for example, be legally kicked off a campsite or can we fish as 
long as we eat the fish on the spot? 


TRAINING 

Staff...A staff breaking trip is a must so that newcomers can see 
how to pitch a tent akisxfivalls conditions and pick up tips in organiza- 
tion, Newcomers should also get training in map reading, compass using, 
selection of camp site and cooking. If possible, some white water should 
also be run, but navigation on large bodies of water would, perhaps, 
be of more importance. It would also be good t or ® staff members to 
give various demonstrations to each other so that each could pick up 
ideas in communications orteaching as well as new trail skills, 


camper...Groups could be irained and sent on a breakin in two trail 
groups to be split afterx® the trippers have had an opportunity to see 
them for a few days. Trips should be shortened, especially for younger 
and inexperienced campers, Some attempt would be made to seperate the 
old from the new and the thought of a longer trip would act as a lure 
for some to return, In-canp training and and a breaking help the cam- 
pers get in physical shape and also cut down on the need to train while 
actually on the trail (which never works well anyhow), 


add 3 


GENERAL 


Paddles should be ordered and sold or rented to campers as part of 
the overall fee. These should be varnished, strong, not laminated and 
uniform, Too many campers have miniscule blades or ddles which easily 
break, 


Smaller needles should be used on sail silk or even the canvas of 
the packs than those which we carried, 


Life preservers are bulky and when it is raining they get heavy 
no matter what. Unless actually worn they are of little use for evena 
pack has more boyancy and a canoe is easier to grab, The adoption of 
yokes or tumps will negate their only positive feature and CIP men we 
have met have seemed to pay no attention to them. They should be done 
away with except for non-swimmers, 


FOOD 


The stocking of staple foods would permit more variety on the trail 
and less work for the in-camp staff, More food could also be purchased 
in bulk and these foods tend to be cheaper, For example, five kinds of 
meat and potatoes, macaroni and rice give the possibility of 15 kinds of 
stew. Tomato paste will up this to 30 and cheeseWwill increase the num- 
ber of varieties to 60 (admittedly some will taste nearly the same), 


All vegetables should be dehydrated (except corn) and a mixed veg- 
table combination kept for stews and soups, Fruit should also be dried 
as peaches, apples, dates and cocktail are available, 


Main suppliers of these items to camps and restaurants inthe US 
are Bernard and Sexton, Inc, The latter should have a ganadian branch, 
Otherwise, General “ills makes some tripping foods out Of soybeans and 
this should be looked into, 


Egg powder is a necessity. lt is needed for cooking if nothing 
else for even T-Bisk recipes frequently call for it as do Twinkles, 


Should staple foods be used, a larger number of spices will be 
necessary , Flour may be completely substituted for T-Bisk as it is 
cheaper and far more versatile.(pie cmuxrusts, crepes, pizza crusts), 


As + mentioned earlier, I still feel that the Widji standardized 
lunch would be a huge improvement, It contains slight quantities of 
cheese, salami, chocolate, peanut butter, kool aid, rye crisp and raisens, 
It is quick and contains protein, salt, sugar and a few carbohydrates, 
With the exception of times when bannock was baked and carried, this 
was more satisfving than any combination used this year, 


On the next page is a list of recommended additions and deletions, 


add 4 


dd 
Adc powder 
tomato paste (not sauce) 
cheese (process) 
salami 
bacon (side) 
— 
bacon and burger) 
salmon 
chicken 
yeast 
cake mix (variety) 
corn meal 
tuna fish, 
pineapple 
onion soup 
mughroom soup 


Tany 


SPICES 


vanilla 
maple 

pepper 

chili powder 
onion salt 
garlic powder 
cinamon 
oregano 


CO EE alee Such 


DEHYDRATED ELIMINATE 


peas 
green beans 
boston beans 
veg-a-rice 
mixed veg, 
onions 
potato flakes 
mixed fruits 
dates 
peaches 
apples 


calrtege 


pea soup 
canned stew 


ba Hed beg ng 


= 


