LES VOYAGEURS 
DE 
LA VERENDRYE 


Report - for 1960 


Submitted by: 
Roger Wilson = 
O a 
a Ve oe 


Vega T 


1441 Drummond St, 
Room 51) 


Montreal, Que, 


January 3rd, 1961 


Metro Y.M.C.A. 
Camp Office 

1441 Drummond St, 
Montreal, Que, 


Attention, Mr. A. Ross Seaman 
Dear Sir: 


Early in February 1960 the first meeting of the staff for 
Les Voyageurs was held, and in three successive meetings the preliminary 
plans were laid, 


During the months of May and June one member of the crew was 
hired full time to do promotion and purchasing, 


On June 26th, the crew assembled at Kamp Kanawana for a week's 
training. The following week we moved to La Verendrye Park, and the 
week following that, the first Voyageurs arrived. They were followed 
in three weeks by the second group. 


Upon closing camp, four days were spent at Kamp Kanawana. 
This time was spent in storing equipment and evaluation sessions at 
which time notes were taken; the elaboration of which formulates this 
report. 


It was the hope of the staff that the evaluation sessions and 
the report would serve as a guide for next year's operation. The 
recommendations are made after a summer's experience on the job, and 
it is hoped they will aid in solving problems in future years, 


The recommendations and suggestions made have been incorporated 
into the body of the report in order to aid understanding. A section 
is dealt with as it was this year, and as we suggest it be handled next, 
Contributionsto this report were made by the six staff members 
and the campers, and were recorded in the evaluation sessions, 


Yours respectfully, 


Roger Wilson 


(ii) 
TABLE OF CONTENT 


Page 

batter of Transmittal « «<6 6 = = ww hws we ew (i) 
Table of Content (ii) 

-. TREC? = ewe ee ee eS Se Se we Sw ee oe 2 
Pow) TOTO <a a ces, ar a ae Ja os Se ees ss ow 2 

Pe UPRIMA ON 3 weak ee ea ew oe ee ae ee 2 

Ce FUPGHSHINg §« = 4 ee nee eee oe ee ew 2 

Dye Siee © Trteeing Arca eee a Sie me oe es hs me 3 

Big. | OEUNLD PM ses sity cas oa a ae are ar eg Gay cee aga cs 3 

Ll OTAEE = == ee tn ew ee ee ee ee ee ew ee h 
he ROCKUMARE 2 wi ee om ee ee re ee a, ee 4 

By Tree & eS ee ek ie oe ae ee eee h 

C. Supervision -< «see swe nen annaesnsneae hh 

cit EQUI = Sse ee i ar ee ee ks a me 5 
By CAMGS, PEddlOR « - see ee cee doe win cna cs 5 
ss ee ee ee ee ee eee 5 

Sa, SOME IIE, WRCISE BGG cert eer aa ss ce Se as ls ee, 6 
LS ee ah me eat ae ek a ee ee ews sg 6 

Mat ge CUE oe eee ee ee as gy a a pas es eee aw Gc 6 

F, Miscellaneous - - += -- 4+ ---- eee es ennnwe 7 
RODS eee eee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee 7 
f 

As BYGSKGQUh Sot ae wine eee ee oe ew 7 

Bo. LENCHAN Ss ice Gy OK eit ee ee wes a rf 

Cy SUPPERS = wa em ee te eee ae ee ee ] 

D, MiBcelLianeoug « = « = wwe ee es ee a ee ww me 9 

E. Added Recommendations - - - = - 8 = = ees nw anon 9 
es ea ere 10 
Be GG CA yey ee ee a es Gd ee ee ew 10 

Be Tp ==<S Beem enn eae ee ee ee ee le 11 

Vi PRON sae On ee ee oe oo ee ew ee Se ee ti 
Ae GONOTEl 6 eS a ee ee ee ee ee ee ee 11 

Bs Workaldeh 6 2 wee eh eee ee eB A ee ee 11 

G Grouping methods. = « «= =a ees ew nwt ee ew 12 

VII PLACEMENT RECOMMENDATIONS --..---.-2.-2.--.... » 
VE Re ren OG ee eS ae a ee ea ee ss es 13 
te Voyageur Folge wa ase eee ee ee ee ee 13 

ee list of Voyagetre'6) <<<. <s se ancemawuaanns = 1h 

3e List of Equipment for each Tent Group -----+----. 15 

by Gish of Pirwt Atd Sapsites: sie wm we wm once me 16 

Sy) PARb er Tied Saed6” eww ae oe ae ee ke eee 17 


S. Suggested Nong. 62a 6 Aw ee Bk ee ee 19 


-2 = 
I - PRE-CAMP ~ GENERAL PREPARATION AND COMMENTS 


A = Promotion: 


A publicity folder was produced for the Voyageurs by 
Gerry Wright of the Metropolitan Y.M.C.A. Public Relations Office, 
in co-operation with Jack Organ of the Voyageurs. Jack was the only 
leader with previous experience with the Voyageurs, and had pictures 
and ideas which aided greatly in the production of this folder. 
Three thousand copies were received by March 15th, and distribution 
was made to all previous Voyageurs, all senior camners of Kamp Kanawana 
who the previous year were recommended bv the Section Director and the 
Section Program Director, and to all the Y.M.C.A. branches in Montreal, 
Several copies were sent to other adults who it was felt might be 
interested in Voyageur programs in their own camps or who had an 
interest in camping. - See Apnendix #1 for folder. 


If possible in future years, personal contact is felt X 
to be the best way to sell camp. Talking to parents and boys will 
stimulate more interest. This will require the establishment of 

contacts with schools and various adult groups. 


B - Organization: 


The original organization was piloted by Jack Organ and 
Ross Seaman, The staff hiring was started by Ross, and at the end of 
April, four trippvers and a business manager were hired. The Director 
was hired later, The trippers were Jack Organ, Glenn Lane, Art Perry 
and Roger Wilson; business manager was Frank Carpenter, and Gus Oki 
became the Director, The trippers all entered third year Arts the 
next fall, and Frank, second year Science, and Gus began work on his 
Doctors degree. This indicates the high calibre of staff hired for 
this project, and this fact went a long way in making the summer a 
success, 


All arrangements re food and equipment were handled by Jack in 
conjunction with Ross, as were the arrangements with regard to 
facilities in the Park, 


C ~ Purchasing: 


With respect to this item, reference will be made in 
the area of equipment and food in their respective sections. Obviously 
the difficulty of having nothing definite to base the purchasing on is 
a real problem, No doubt subsequent vears will see this major problem 
largely reduced. 


The purchasing this year was left so late that deliveries 
were delayed and exchanges for mistakes in delivery could not be made. 
The feeling was that the delivery deadline should be the first week 
in June, and the order checked then. This would leave time to exchange Ps 
goods if they were the wrong size or type. This is essential to avoid 
mistakes, 


D = Site & Tripping Areas 


The selection of a suitable base camp site which is 
located centrally to good tripping territory is necessary in an 
operation like the Voyageurs. This will become more evident in the 
section of this report on the Site. Lack of time prior to the opening 
of camp limited the selection of a suitable site, but present familiarity 
with the area will make it possible to recommend a new site, 


E- Camp Periods: 


Generally speaking the Pre-camp period is difficult to 
assess, both in terms of what was attempted and how effective it was. 
Except in the area of staff training no one of the eventual staff 
(with one exception) was involved in any pre-camp activities. This is 
inevitable to an extent, but it would be beneficial if not essential 
that subsequent years will see greater involvement of other staff 
members in pre-camp programs. 


Discussion took place around this topic and the feeling 
was that the length of the periods was fine, but some break between the 
two periods was necessary for the staff's benefit. 


This year, there was only a twenty-four hour break, and 
it was felt this was not long enough. Three weeks had been spent with 
the same group of boys and some time was needed to forget this group, 
and begin thinking towards a new fresh group. 


Time is required to do the preliminary mental thinking 
and planning necessary before facing a new group of boys. Also in 
this break a trip to town (Maniwaki) is suggested for a good meal and 
a change of atmosphere, This takes a day, and one day should be spent 
visiting people in the area. This provides a welcome change and is 
also interesting. After this variety and change, the leaders should 
be fresh and ready to take on the second group. Relaxation and change 
are the necessity here. 


The suggested timing for the summer is along the lines 
of eleven or twelve days for the staff together in the Park prior to 
campers arriving for the first three week period recommended for new 
campers or those not familiar with the bush; a full three day break 
and the final four week period for old and experienced campers. This 
set-up would mean one or the other of the groups would leave for camp 
in the middle of the week. It was suggested that this would inconvenience 
parents wanting to get away for holidays on the weekend, However, it 
was further suggested that the weekend-changeover - days were a tradition 
of Kanawana, and that many other camps had changecver days in mid-week 
at no apparent inconvenience to parents. Advance knowledge of this 
fact by parents would eliminate most problems, and we feel many will 
not even realize or be concerned by the change, 


II - STAFF 


Generally speaking this was the most satisfactory area 
of the operation this summer. Recognizing the fact that this was the 
first year of the camp, it was fortunate that such a competent staff 
of leaders was available 


A- Recruiting: 


The recruiting of men of this calibre, however, was 
essential considering the many "unknowns" that were to be encountered. 
With no patterns or systems previously established, the leaders had 
many demands placed on them that would not exist in subsequent operations, 
Thus it is of crucial importance to retain the staff if at all possible, 
Familiarity will minimize the routine demands of the leaders! role and 
will allow them to concentrate on the more ultimate objectives, 


B - Training: 


With respect to pre-job training, some of the staff 
participated in a program during the winter and the whole group took 
part in a more specific training experience during two weeks prior te 
the beginning of camp. The winter program was in the nature of a 
general "sensitizing" experience, the value of this cannot be established 
but it is probably safe to savy that some growth occurred, 


However, as mentioned above, the staff will make or break 
this operation. The kind of experience that the campers have will 
depend almost exclusively on the nature and quality of leadership that 
is provided for them by the staff. 


In relationship to Kamp Kanawana, it may be wise to do the following: 


a - Clearly establish the existing formal and informal relationships 
as to staff, budget, equipment, facilities, materials, 


b - Clearly establish the existing formal and informal relationship 
as to Lay Committee, the Montreal Y.M.C.A. generally. 


c — That the relationship of the Voyageur's Camp to Kamp Kanawana, 
insofar as traditions, customs, staff organization, etc be 
clarified as much as possible, 


C - Supervision: 


The supervision provided the staff, both by the Director 
of Camping for Montreal and the Director of the Voyageur Camp itself 
probably wasn't adequate insofar as the needs of the staff was concerned, 
Some of these inadequacies were a direct result of the newness of the 
situation. Others, however, probably could have been minimized by 
better preparation and organization, 


In the area of skilled training, there wasn't too much 
need for either training or supervision. This speaks well for the 
original selection of personnel. However, skill-proficiency isn't the 
basic requirement, although it is an essential, particularly in the 
"bush" setting, 


TIT - EQUIPMENT 


From the previous year when only three groups operated, 
there were three sets or pieces of each part of the equipment. This, 
due to expansion had to be increased to four. The individual items 
have been grouped and will be described in detail. For a total list 
of each group's equipment see Appendix #3. 


A - Canoes & Paddles ete: 


We received delivery of four canoes at the end of Sune, 
They were purchased from the Chestnut Canoe Company of New Brunswick; 
three being of the Prospector model and one being a 16! Canvas "Vv" 
back which was equipped with a three horse-power Evenrude motor. 
The "V" back was poorly constructed and was returned for a replacement 
after camp closed. 


The feelings of the camp were that for ordinary tripping X 
the canvas covered canoes were fine, but after experiencing some rough 
tripping, it was felt that Aluminum or double ribbed canvas covered 

canoes should be investigated. 


The possibility of having mast fittings was suggested 
and this although not essential, would be handy. After the season's 
use, all the canoes should be sanded and repainted. Special care should 
be taken in order to keep weight down, thorough sanding is therefore 
essential, 


The paddles which the boys brought were on the most part 
sufficient and in the event that a boy did not have one, the paddles 
which came with the canoes were borrowed. This setup was quite 
satisfactory. 


B = Packs: 


Six new Woods "1 packs were purchased, and these were 
the same as the ones already on hand, Some repairs are needed and 
these should be determined by inspection early in the spring, 


Twenty-five army surplus packs were bought for carrying 
personals and these worked well. . 


One group had an army mess bag for utensils, and it was 
suggested that these would be good for all groups. 


Discussion took place with regard to the advisability 
of wooden boxes for carrying supplies for kitchen use, The box would 
have built-in areas for various equipment like pots, dishes utensils 
and could even include an area for butter and jam containers and bread 
if there was room, No design was made up, and the size would depend 
on equipment to go into it. The reason for this type of thing was 
that the ordinary packs with this type of equipment require extensive 
planning in packing. The box would have straps for portaging and to 
hang it on a tree in camp. 


= 6 = 


The rubberized bags for food were good, but the feeling 
is that twenty per group are needed and not ten as are now available. 


A supply of canvas bags would also help. There are some 
things which might damage the rubber ones and canvas would be better. 
Six per group was the recommended number. 


C - Cooking and Rating: 


The pots were good, We had three per group and they 
were of the 3, 43, 7 & 93 quart size, The need was felt for four per 
group, and one must be the largo 93 quart size, The present frying pans 
were fine. 


The plastic Kamp Kanawana dishes should be replaced by 
porcelain plates and bowls. Plastic cups were however, recommended as 
they were cooler to hold. 


A spare set of cutlery per group is a good idea as well 
as another large serving spoon, giving each group two, 


The small metal crank can-openers were recommended rather 
than the type with handles. It was felt that the less complicated the 
machine the less could go wrong with it. 


D = Tools: 


1. Axe - The axes carried, varied with each tripper, and it 
is recommended that the axe taken be left to the 
tripper's discretion. It was suggested that leather 
cases with buckle flaps be purchased and leather 
thongs could be sewn to the case, so the axe could 
be tied to the canoe gunnel 


2. Files - A file is needed for axe sharpening and two per 
group are recommended, 


3. Reflector Ovens - Two new ones were purchased. One of the 
old ones must be replaced and a new design or type 
is suggested, The cost of these is high, and a 
cheaper aluminum model should be looked into. Trays 
should be bigger - large enough to hold two metal 
Pie-plates, Heavy Aluminum foil would also aid here, 


lh. Machete & Entrenching tools - Each group had one of each. 
The Entrenching tool was a valuable item but little 
use could be found for the Machete, 


E - Tents: 


The tents were sail-silk, and the three original 
12' x 1h' x ' models were suplimented by two 10' x 12' x ! of the 
same material. Trouble was had with tabs and grommets which pulled 
loose. These should be reinforced and a small repair kit be purchased 
for base-camp. The possibility of reinforcing the ridge of the fly with 
canvas should be investigated, 


poorly sewn in 


redone, and a better quality neeting be used. 


= a 


The mosquito netting in the tents is very poor. It is 
It is suggested that the job be 


and does not fit. 


The type that lifts up 


is better than the one that opens down the centre, but it must be full 
enough to be lifted to get under and also tie up. 


There are a few minor repairs to be made on tents and 
flys, but these can be examined and done in the spring, 


F - Miscellaneous: 


1 - "Nu-weld" glue was carried and it was found that "Ambroid" 
glue is much better and has more uses, 


2 - First-aid kits should be waterproof and should contain aspirin 


or 2'22's, 


and recommendations. 


See Appendix #l, for list of articles carried 


3 - Butcher twine or Pine-tar twine is recommended over Binder- 
twine but Pine-tar may be best as it is less expensive. 


IV = FOOD 


#5, and the recommended menu is Appendix #6, 


A total list of food for one group is listed in Appendix 


The items of food will be 


listed, evaluated and recommended changes made in this section, 


A - Breakfasts: 


9. 


Item 

Orange juice 
Coffee 

Tea 


Bacon 


Eggs 


Cold cereal 
Hot cereal 


Pancakes 


Dates, prunes & 
raisins, apricots 


Rating 
good ~ 


good - 


poor in bulk - 
poor size tin - 


fresh only, - 
used 


Grapenuts good- 
oatmeal & - 
cream of wheat 
good 

Teabisk type - 
is best 


Good for snacks 


Suggestion 


more variety - try lemon 
or grapefruit 

medium size bottles and 
not small ones, 

bags are a must. 

whokte tin must be eaten 
at once or slab side 
bacon. (serve every day) 
check various types of 
powdered and serve every 
day. 

also for lunches, 

check on others for 
variety - important 


If cost is comparable use 
it over Aunt Jemima 


- more - supplv in bulk 
and pack selves 


B « Lunches: 


Item Rating Suggestion 
1. Mix-ade fine - order the same 
2. Milk shakes good for treat - " a " 
3. Cheese good - need more if for 


sandwiches. Order in 
bulk and package 


h. Soup good - need more quantity and 
variety. dried best 
5. Kraft Dinner good - Need 3 per meal for 6 
fellows. Might buy 
in bulk 
~ 6. Veg-a-rice good - order again , 
7. Soup vegetables good - best as just a vegetable 
not used in soup 
~ 8. Ginger & Corn good - should have more 
bread 
9. Pork & Beans good - re-order 
10. Canned fruit not used for - would add variety 
Lunches 
C - Supper: 
1. Fish fine - no more than one meal 
scheduled per week 
2. Potatoes good - re-order 
3. Ham good - can size is too big. 
should be finished in 
one meal. 
h. Canned beef good - re-order plus more 
canned meat. 
5. Rice good - good in place of 
potatoes. 
6. Irish stew good -look for a brand with 


more meat e.g uiritan 
or Chuckwagon 


7. Beef & Gravy good - re-order 
8, Weiners good - re-order 
9. Hamburgers good - re-order 


10. Vegetables: 


(i) Turnips good -) all dehydrated and 
(ii) Beets good ) good on trips 
(iii) Carrots good ) 

(iv) Peas good -) cans were heavy 

(v) Bean good ) suggest their use only 
(vi) Mixed veg. good ) in base camp. Not 


to be carried. 


ll. Desserts - 


(4) Apples -) Suggest dehydrated where 
(ii) Pudding (Gumperts) ) possible and these to be 


D. - Miscellaneous 


E. 


(iii) Peaches ) used on trips. The heavy 
(iv) Plums ) eans are best used in Base 
(v) Pears ) camp. 

(vi) Rhubarb ) 

(vii) Apricots ) 

(viii) Cherries ) 

. Item Rating Suggestion 

ie Mil good - suggest buying bulk - 
approx 100 lbs. 

2. Jam good - suggest buying bulk 
and put into containers 
on own, See recommenda- 
tion for containers. 

3. Bravo good - smaller size cans 

h. Salt - less is needed 

5. Honey good - more if possible - or 
corn syrup. 

6, Shortening good - ) can be balanced for 

7 Olive Oil good ) frying. 

) need both 
8. Cinnamon good - need more 
9. Sugar good in - need more 
bulk 
10. Soap good type - quantity fine 
11. Hot Chocolate McLeans is - need more 
good 
12. Mustard good - better in a plastic 
container 
13. Liquid good - good containers 
Detergent 
1h. Pepper good - re-order 
15. 6s0.8. good - re-order 
16. Teabisk good - need more, especially 


if used for pancakes 


~ Added Recommendations: 


1. Bakers Chocolate - would be a good treat and source 
of energy. Quantitv of one a day 
per person. Difficulty may be 


storage. 

2. Corn Syrup - good if in a sealed plastic 
container. 

3. Ketchup - also if in a container 


h. Variety of spices - will add to meal taste. Needed 
only in a small quantity. 


» 10 = 


It will be noted that for many items, plastic 
containers are recommended. It is suggested that these resemble 
the containers now containing soap (vitsin). These are of a durable 
plastic and have a screw top. The "Vitsin" people could be investigated 
and their supplier approached. These containers are not only suggested 
but are essential for the transportation of some of the goods mentioned. 


V « SITE 
A, Base Camp 


This year we developed the camps first on location base 
camp. The previous year there was no base camp in the north, and so 
the establishment of the base camp was another experimental step. 


We were located this year at the lumber camp at the end 
of the access road cutting of the Barriere road at mile 10.2. It is 
about 7 miles from the Barriere road and on the shores of Lake Nanouatan, 
just southeast of the washout. As previously stated, it was on the site 
of an old lumber camp, and two of the camp buildings were taken over, 
fixed up, and used for a supply shack and base cabin. 


Although the site was convenient to mail, supplies and 
bus line services - 17 miles one way - the site had many drawbacks, 
The lake is locked by rapids up and down stream. The site is sandy 
making camping dirty. The lower exit from the lake is into the Dozois 
Reservoir, which is a poor tripping area, The surrounding country has 
been logged, and much of the natural beauty is lost. Lake Nanouatan 
is a popular fishing area and many tourists come into the region. It 
was the group feeling that we should be in a more "bush" area where a 
real "bush camp" could be established, as much camping enjoyment should 
be derived from base camp as from the trail. This was certainly not the 
case this year, 


After much discussion and disagreement, the recommendations 
we submit for next year are as follows: 


- Relocation in the Nanouvatan areas, but not the same site. 

- Investigate laws re leases, and the existing leases in the area, 
This may disclose an area which could be leased by the Y.M.C.A. 

- Investigate the cutting plans of the C.I.P. (Canadian International 
Paper). This will insure that an area chosen will not be cut over 
in the next few years so again losing the "bush" setting. 

- It was the general feeling that one more year would be necessary 

to make a reliable decision on base camp establishment. 

Opinions of the group in general lean to location on Indian Lake, 

This site is about 80 miles from the highway, making it about 90 miles 

from the closest store on the highwav. However, a group of campers 

known as "Adventurers Unlimited" have told us of a supplier from 

Maniwaki, who comes into the various lumber camps with supplies. 

If contact could be made with the supplier, this would eliminate 

the need to run to the store, and also provide for a mail delivery. 

- The one drawback is transportation of boys from the Abitibi bus run 
into the base. This may be eliminated by contacting the C.I.P. bus 
used to transp»rt workers. This should be investigated, and the 
locating of a base in this area considered. 

- If deemed necessary, the site could be explored again this year, 


1 


es ee 


B - Tripping: 


Reservoir travel is not recommended for extended periods, 
but provides a break from the monotony developed by extensive lake and 
river travel, High winds when in these areas give exciting paddling 
in high waves and an opportunity for sailing. 


Campsites are plentiful in most areas, except the flooded 
regions, 


The area gives unbounded variety, including ricers, creeks, 
big and small lakes, trekking, portages - (100 yds to 2 or 3 miles) - 
and rapids to shoot. 


VI - PROGRAM A Genera: 
A general pattern of program this year was, three days 
in base for training; a short three to five day trip; return to base 
for two or three days, and out again for a long trip; and back to base 
two or three days before leaving. As mentioned before, this was the 
general pattern, and by no means the final or decisive word, or 
necessarily followed by all groups. 


During the second period, general instruction was given 
by various leaders on camp skills. This was done with mixed groups, 
and the feeling was that the group leader would be best to do this 
using his own group for aid. 


It was felt that a group orientation to the setting and 
to each other, and the equipment is necessary. This should be flexible 
and depend on what the boys want, The first short trip was meant to 
do this, and be a climax to the orientation. There was never a fine 
line drawn around orientation, it was just the natural thing to do, 


The leaders were unanimous in mentioning that the 
Voyageurs should be a "bush camping group) and not a "canoe tripping 
group". Bush camping stresses camperaft, hiking and canoeing for a 
means of transportation, 


The leader can establish his groups camping level, and 
set goals. Goals can be raised as the group progresses, The rule 
of the "I's" was established, and proved to be all inclusive - 
Initiation, Imagination and Inventiveness, these were the main 
requirements of a group and it's leader, 


B - Work Aids: 


The camper and group development forms (See Appendix 5 & 6) 
established and used at Kamp Kanawana, were used by all leaders, 
They were of more use to the leader himself, than to anyone else, 
They allowed or perhaps forced him to take a look at the group, and 
by this the weak areas were re-enphasized, and further work could be 
done in the area. There were a yood reminder, and gave a lift to the 
leader when an improvement was noted in a group or individual, 


a 


Cc - Grouping Methods: 


With our two periods, we tried two methods of grouping. 
First, the trial and error method, whereby boys of equal ability and 
experience were grouped. This was done by the leaders, and the groups 
were formed the first night. 


With the second group, we used the more scientific way; 
using a sociogram, and the boys personal choice. The first day the 
boys were observed, and a sociogram was made. The groups were formed, 
the leader assigned and groups announced, Anv unsatisfied persons 
were heard and changes made. 


It was generally agreed that the former method was more 
efficient, if less democratic. There were no advantages observed to 
the second method, and the delay in grouping aroused some confusion, 
which may have been detrimental, 


This is a question with which future leaders will have 
to deal and experiment. The hope is that they will come to a more 
concrete solution. Most of the leaders agree however, that the first 
method was if not the best, the most practical for our purposes. 


VII - PLACEMENT RECOMMENDATIONS 


To aid in the selection of staff for Kanawana next 
year, recommendations were made as to the boys which we felt were 
capable of Counsellor's jobs, Junior Counsellors-in-training program, 
or those who should return to Les Voyageurs for another year before 
entering the Junior Counsellor-in-training program. 


1 - Recommended for Counsellor - Paul Tutsch, 
2 - Recommended for Junior Counsellor-in-training program: 


George Griffiths Jim Smallwood 
Laird Brown Bernie Achtman 
Ronnie Brown John Patton 
Dave Sides Tim Weisbord 


3 - Recommended to return to Voyageurs: 


Colin Lewis Gary Davies 

Dave McClymont Bob Pepper 

Bob Schuyler Steven Gruber 
Dave Snasdell-Taylor Ron Foreman 

Ray Green Dick Kerr 

Peter Polovchik Howard Strothard 
Richard Dumas Ken Mackenzie 


Yvan Aird 


4 ° {* . 
Appendix #1 


The Camp Folder 


Appendix # 2 


= TR im 


LIST OF VOYAGEURS 165 


First Period 


Leonard Bazar 
Peter Brown 
Charles Wakefield 
David Sides 


Glenn Lane - Leader 


John Garon 
Hubert Langlois 
Ken Mackenzie 
John Dubsky 
Yvan Aird 

Art Perry - Leader 
Bob Pepper 
Ron Foreman 
Steve Gruber 
Tim Weisbord 
Jack Organ - Leader 
Dave Snasdell-Taylor 
Bob Schuyler 

Dave McClymont 

Colin Lewis 

George Griffiths 

Roger Wilson ~- Leader 


Second Period 


Ron Rosenthall 

Jim Smallwood 

Dick Dumas 

Pete Polovchik 

Sandy Hoskins 

Glenn Lane - Leader 


Peter Marosi 

Paul Tutsch 

John Patton 

Bernie Achtman 

Art Perry - Leader 


Howard Strothard 

Dick Kerr 

Gary Davies 

Ray Green 

Jack Organ - Leader 


Ron Blofield 

Len Thyer ~ 

Charles Prosser 

Ronnie Brown 

Laird Brown 

Roger Wilson - Leader 


Appendix # 3 


FOR EACH TENT GROUP 


LIST OF EQUIPMENT 


Tent so eS 
Tent fly sponge bowl 

canoes can opener 

packs canoe patcher 

packs (small) reflector oven 
bowls axe files 

plates salt shaker . 

cups serving spoon 

forks map reader 

spoons compass 

knives whet stone 

pots and covers rubber bags 

fry pan set first aid supplies 
dish pan 

machete 

axe 

shovel 

egg lifter 


Base Camp Supplies 


NEPYPPENPHYNNHYD 


canoes h cots 

outboard 1 screwdriver set 
canvas tents & flies 1 shovel 

gas tanks 1 role rope 
life-jacket 7 - 8" x 30" stove pipes 
coleman stove 2 - 8" elbows 

coleman lamps 1 - minnow bucket 
plywood boxes 1 broom 

rake 1 coaloil lamp 
hammer 2 - 2 cell lamps 
buck saw 1 - 3 volt flashlight 
pots 18 paddles 


water pails 6 fishing rods 


care om 


- 16- 


Appendix # 
FIRST AID SUPPLIFS IN ORIGINAL ORDER 


6 Boxes absorbent cotton 
6 bottles vaseline 
6 boxes ];" gauze 
6 boxes 2" gauze 
2 boxes gauze pads 
6 bottles green soap 
6 thermometers 
5 boxes band-:i.ds 
6 bottles Kalpec 
bottles Eno 
> ~~ adhesive tape 2" 
5 tubes Calagestic 
6 pr. pliers 
5 sewing needles & thread 
3 boxes triangular bandages 
2 doz. wax candles 
1 pr. sissors 


Recommend - 1 tube of Ozonol first aid dressing per group. 


- A larger kit with more variety of supplies for base camp. 


Cotton swabs 


throat lozenges 


Arpirins or 2!'22's 


