The Adventures 


The Voyageurs 
of 


Verendrye 


This is the story of 30 Voyageurs 
on a Summer Adventure in 
Quebec's northern wilderness... 
the vast unconquered land 
of the Algonquin, Radisson, 
Champlain, La Verendrye, 
and the beaver-trapping voyageurs 


of the Hudson’s Bay Company. 


A CHALLENGING 
EXPERIENCE FOR 
SENIOR BOYS 
STANDING AT THE 
THRESHOLD TO 


MANHOOD 


VOYAGEURS .. . 1960 


Directors: 
A. Ross Seaman, Director of Boys’ Camping 
Harry K. Gordon, Voyageurs Director 


Voyageurs Leaders: 
J. Organ; R. Wilson; A. Perry. 


Camp Committee: 
Gordon A. Mackey (Chairman), H.C. Brophy, George Clouston, D. Dewar, Allan 
Forbes, H. Furness, A. Hamilton, W.J.C. Hewetson, F.G. Hubbard, S.F. Kneeland, 
Marshall Lebeau, Roy D. Locke, A. Miles, F.J. Nobbs, O.N.H. Owens, A.R. 
Tzventarmy, E.J. Stafford. 


Advisory Committee: 
John F., Lewis, Dr. J. Preston Robb, Dr. H.G. Dimock, Dr. H.F. Hall. 


OPERATED BY THE MONTREAL YMCA 
1441 Drummond Street VI. 4-0131 


Cover photo: VISITING ‘‘EMILE’’, QUEBEC FORESTRY RANGER AT LAC BOUCHETTE 
350 MILES ABOVE MONTREAL AND 100 FEET ABOVE GROUND 


DESIGNING A 
SENIOR CAMPING EXPERIENCE 
FOR TEEN-AGE BOYS 


Three hundred miles north of Montreal is La Verendrye Park. Within several 
thousand square miles of virgin bush and lakes, some occasional Indian encampments, 
Hudson’s Bay Posts, lumber camps, and Fire Rangers are the only signs of civili- 
zation. This was the land of New France . . . The domain of Radisson, the home of 
the Algonquins, and the once busy territory of the French beaver-trapping voyageurs. 
Into this vast unspoiled country went 30 boys on a land of wilderness adventure that 


would inspire the imagination of any teenage boy. 


The YMCA has been concerned about the needs of the older boy in camping. By 
the time a lad has had five or six years of organized camp program, he feels he has 
‘*had the course’’ and is looking for a more challenging experience. What kind of 
summer adventure could YMCA offer to answer the needs of a teenage boy. . . a boy 
who stands shorn of childish pursuits yet unprepared and unaccepted in the adult 
world? It had to be a kind of experience that would challenge him physically and in- 
tellectually; that would appeal to his boyish imagination; that would stimulate him 


to recognize and accept the responsibilities of growing into manhood. 


Last summer the Metropolitan Boys Camp Committee of the Montreal YMCA set up 
six three-week canoe-trip ‘‘voyageurs’’ adventures into the Quebec northlands. The 
test project involved 30 boys, 14-17 years old. It was decided that a ‘‘voyageurs’’ 


group would be comprised of five boys and a senior YMCA leader. 


NO ORDINARY CAMP-OUT TRIP 


Leadership was the first concern. This was no ordinary camp-out trip . . . the 
voyageurs leaders had to have a great variety of skills. Most important, they had to 
have camping skills and experience that would guarantee their ability to live for 
three weeks in the Quebec wilderness with no access to city life. But there was 
another kind of leadership that was important . . . the kind of mature man who could 


recognize and fulfill the needs of a growing teenage boy. 


TRAINING AT THE BASE CAMP 


A sleep-out ‘‘Base-Camp’’ was established 144 miles outside YMCA Kamp Kana- 
wana. This was a training camp where the Voyageurs spent three days getting ac- 
quainted with each other and brushing up on their camping skills. This orientation 
program included the use of canoe equipment, bedding down, and cooking, just as 


they would later in the northlands bush. 


Canvas canoes built for fast and rough waters, and light enough for frequent 
portaging later became the pride of each group. At Base Camp the neophyte Voyageurs 
studied proper care for and repair of torn canvas and cracked ribbings. There were 
lessons in map reading with government topographical maps .. . there is no one to 


ask directions of in La Verendrye Park! 


Camping is a real experience when the equipment is sensible and comfortable. 
The three-day Base Camp training proved valuable in many ways. Packing procedures 
were rehearsed for food packs and gear since everything for the three-week venture 
had to be carried. Specially smoked, canned, and dehydrated meats were used. Tents 
were pitched with squaw poles cut on the site, sodcloths were dug in, and nylon 
screen flaps closed. Then a shot of insecticide and everyone was safe from pests of 


the night and the worst that nature’s violent moods could provide. 


INTO THE LAND OF HISTORY 


Then came the long trip to the northern outpost (250 miles) by truck - - - 300 miles 
above Montreal - - - hauling a trailer of food, packs equipment, and six canoes all 
readied for the coming adventure. From their northern station, the Voyageurs set out 
on separate routes, planned and mapped by themselves. Some covered 200 miles of 
wild lakes, rivers, rapids, and portages. Five fellows living together for three weeks 
in a challenging and inviting adventure! - - - no switches for lights, no turn of the 


dial for cooking. 


Five fellows living together for three weeks, 


in a challenging and exciting adventure - - - 
the company of Voyageurs '59 covered some 200 miles 
of wild lakes, rivers, rapids, and portages, 
rediscovering the trails of Radisson and the beaver-trapping 


voyageurs of the old Northwest Company of the 1680's. 


CHARTER ROLL 


THE GRAND COMPANY OF 
THE VOYAGEURS OF VERENDRYE 


OUTFIT 1 

Pete Marosi 
Bob Pepper 
Colin Lewis 
Jacques Couture 
Alex Henderson 


Jack Organ 


OUTFIT 4 

Michel Gaucher 
Tim Weisbord 
Bruce Fogle 
“‘Bernie’’ Achtman 
‘‘Cal’’ Creslin 
Jack Organ 


OUTFIT 2 

Ross Mountain 
Bob Clibbon 
Ross Probert 
*“‘Chuck’’ Prosser 
David Reed 
Peter Whitenect 


OUTFIT 5 
Terry Alcorn 
Bill Palmer 
Andy Aschner 
Paul Tutsch 
Steve Gruber 
Peter Whitenect 


OUTFIT 3 

Francois de Martigny 
Dick.Spencer 

Ron Foreman 

Stanley Gray 
Leonard Thyer 


Dave Carson 


OUTFIT 6 
Ronnie Brown 
Ron Blofield 
John Rothschild 
Dick Evans 

Jim Campbell 
Dave Carson 


EXCERPTS FROM THE LOG 
VOYAGEURS - ‘59 


From the log of OUTFIT 3 


THURSDAY, JULY 16 

We broke camp in the morning on Camatose 
Lake, and dug our paddles to the water for the 
first time. There was a strong wind and the 
waves were extremely high, some of them 
breaking into the canoes. We lost direction for 
a while but a group of Pennsylvanian fisher- 
men told us the way to Camatose River. Down 
river 18 miles we were stuck by a log jam 
completely blocking our passage. Ron got out 
and pushed many away. We cleared it and con- 
tinued down stream until we were met by 
another log jam, but this one about a mile 
long. Dave got out and scouted ahead while 


6 


Ron guided Thyer’s canoe. Stan got out, 
peeled off his jeans, and guided the canoe 
through for a while. It was a grand sight to 
see him standing up in the stern making like 
a Viennese gondolier. After an hour we got 
through and stopped at a small dam. We swam, 
rolled logs, (very wet game) ate and then 
pushed off. This time we had to smash 
10,000,000,000,000,000 logging booms. Stan 
and Dick had to get off sometimes. We paddled 
through 9 miles of bay for over an hour until 
we found a camp sight. We made camp, ate, 
and after Dave and Len fished we slept. 
Changed ahead 1% hours to DST. Seen: 1 cow 
moose, 1 calf moose, 1 deer, 1,000,000 bugs. 
Tragedies: Ron lost 1 moccasin. 


SUNDAY, JULY 19th 

We rose late, broke camp, and left. We 
paddled into 1,000 bays, inlets, and streams 
searching for the Ottawa River. Along the way 
we found 30 different Capistachuone Rivers. 
At 4:15 we came into a bay and saw a trap- 
per’s cabin with Indian and English writing 
on the wall. We continued on for a long time 
hoping to find a campsight. Hungry and tired, 
we stopped for raisins along the way. Finally 
at 8:30 we came to a cabin. Across the river 
was a huge clearing by a road. We walked up 
the road and discovered it skirted the border 
of La Verendrye Park. Somebody goofed! 

We ate, and after a long exhaustive study 
(taking all of 15 seconds) we found that we 
were on the Capistachuone River instead of 
the Ottawa and had travelled over 20 miles 
that day looking for a lake that wasn’t there. 
Slept and froze at night. Seen: 1 cow moose, 
1 bull moose. 


TUESDAY, JULY 21st 

Broke camp early. Paddled along River 
until noon. We saw four ‘‘meese’’ that morning. 
Ate and swam. Trekked canoe over rapids. It 
took a long time and we had to empty the 
canoes of water and everyone was scratched. 
Portaged twice more until we reached Portage 
Bay. Had hoped to reach Lake Camashigama 
and flake for two days, but the sun was al- 
most down and the portages too long. Made 
camp near a cabin and ate and bedded down 
for the night. Seen: 8 cow moose, 1 bull 
moose. Tragedies: Ron lost his hat. 


WEDNESDAY, JULY 22nd 

Rose early to pleasant sound of millions 
of mosquitos. Broke camp and did the 4 mile 
portage from Portage Bay. Paddled to second 
portage and a miserable 1-1% miles through 
bush and fallen logs to Lake Camashigama. 
The flies were terrible. Paddled across Lake 
Camashigama to be greeted at the other end 
by a welcoming committee of 10,000 gulls 
who staged a protest demonstration against 
our arrival. Camped at a long and beautiful 
beach. Swam for hours, ate, and swam again. 


Les Voyageurs 
travel 


Kon-Tiki style 


FRIDAY, JULY 24th 

We rose late because of rain. Broke camp 
at 1:00 p.m. and a storm came up on Camashi- 
gama Lake. We waited in the lee for a while 
then darted across the lake. It was pouring 
rain and the white caps were stupendous. The 
bow of Dave’s canoe submerged every time 
it plunged into the waves. We finally got to 
the river and the storm let up but the rain 
continued. We continued on to one portage 
and then stopped at the Fire Ranger Cabin 
at Akos. We had tea with the ranger and his 
companion; the comforts of a log cabin seemed 
luxurious. They took us to the top of the 
tower (100 feet) where on a clear day one 
could see forest, rivers and lakes for 60 miles. 
The rain cleared in the late afternoon so we 
shot one set of rapids and portaged another 
until we camped for the night at an old Fores- 
try Cabin. 


SATURDAY, JULY 25th 

We rose, broke camp and left by 10:30. We 
met a group of fishermen on a small lake. We 
shot rapids and ate at the road on Lake Bou- 
chette. Swam a while and proceeded down 
the next rapids. They were rough! We cracked 
the ribs of Dave’s canoe and tore a hole in 
the canvas. Repairs were made. Came through 
Lake Bouchette from the Camashigama River 
on to the Ottawa River where it was really 
white water. Stopped for a rest where Lenny 
played in the sand. Camped at an island on 
the Ottawa. 


SUNDAY, JULY 26th 

Rose at 10:00 a.m. and left by 12:30. 
Paddled along the Ottawa and across to Lac 
Barrier. Had stopped at a beach to eat, when 
Pete’s group appeared. We swapped stories 
and also took a lot of food from them, who 
had an excessive amount of goodies. Paddled 
off again and passed Pete and Jack in second 
gear. Shot rapids and after that we arrived at 
a lumber camp. 


~ 


g- 


=the, 


Civilization’s northern base... from 
ere up it’s ‘strictly Man and Nature. 


From the log of OUTFIT 1 


THURSDAY, JULY 16 

Arose at 8 a.m., D.S.T., good breakfast 
and a trip to the store, finally broke camp at 
11. Travelling north, we passed through the 
Gauthier narrows and headed towards Pte. 
Jerome camping for the night at a point 
several miles short of the above mentioned 
place. Erected a lean-to, and caught first 
fish, Colin Lewis. Pete caught second, an 
18’’ Dore. Mosquitos bad that night and the 
fellows slept poorly. Crew works well, but 
slowly. 


MONDAY, JULY 20 

Beautiful day, Lewis caught a good-sized 
Dore this morning. Got the reflector oven 
working satisfactorily and had biscuits and 
‘*Potatoes au gratin’’ for lunch. The fellows 
fished in the afternoon with excitement, but 
no success. For supper we had Pizza-Pie 
done in the reflector oven.and spaghetti. 


THURSDAY, JULY 23 

Broke camp on Bay Langevin and travel- 
led to Barrage Barriere, and first rapids 
which required portaging. Immediately after 
the Portage, saw a bear and a moose. Made 
camp on Nanouatan Lake, and had a good 
supper just at dusk. Saw two large owls 
above tent tonight which gave us all an eerie 
few moments until identified. 


SATURDAY, JULY 25 
Beautiful day, fished at the rapids with 
great success. Everybody’s doing washing 
and soap is becoming quite scarce. Jack 
Couture went for a paddle in the evening and 
saw a bear cub. Had another visit from our 
owl-friends this evening. 


8 


SUNDAY, JULY 26 

Beautiful morning: Went for a walk and 
saw a deer about 5 miles back, past Brat 
Lake. Twelfth day out and finally running 
low on food. Pete’s group moved into our lake 
tonight while I was out chasing a bear... 
the second today. Dave’s group passed by a 
little later; they intend to go 15 miles tonight, 
5 sets of rapids included and it is almost 
dark. 


WEDNESDAY, JULY 28 
My boys broke camp ably on their own 
beating Pete’s crew by 20 minutes. Then the 
long drive back to Kanawana. Everybody in 
good spirits, but a little sad to leave. 


From the log of OUTFIT 4 


WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 12 
Travelled the Cabonga 30 miles of paddl- 
ing, all-told. High tail-winds and waves, 
tough job to avoid shipping water. Arrived in 
Washego Channel about 7:30, the fellows, 
tired, and rain coming on, so camped in a 
cosy log cabin near destined camping spot. 


THURSDAY, AUGUST 13 

Fishing, Bruce caught a 10-pound Pike, 
Bernie on his first time fishing, lost a 20- 
pounder, at least, when his line broke in the 
fight. Several fish caught this evening, Bernie 
landed his first Dore, very excited. Had an 
excellent camp fire this evening which lasted 
to 12. We sang for an hour. 


FRIDAY, AUGUST 14 
More fishing in the morning, some of the 
fellows went exploring from our cabin here 
on Washego. Late supper tonight started at 
7:30 and ended at 10, followed by a camp fire. 
Discussed future prospects of this Older Boys 
Camp, camp’s purpose, and ended up ina 

vigorous discussion of religions. 


A thousand bays and inlets to explore 


SATURDAY, AUGUST 15 
Saturday morning were surprised by visit 
from Ross and Don Dewar. In the afternoon we 
hiked up the road from Washego, north to 


lumber camp where we met some real ‘‘cou- © 


reurs de bois’’, had a coke, and returned. 
Covered 20 miles in the afternoon from 1:30 
to 6:45. On return walk from Robb Lake did 
10 miles in 14% hours. 


SUNDAY, AUGUST 16 


Took it easy this morning as the weather - 


was poor. In the afternoon the fellows went 
across the lake to pick blueberries. About 10 
quarts were picked, and about 5 quarts eaten, 
before the remains were made into blueberry 
jam by Cal Breslin. 


MONDAY, AUGUST 17 

Left Washego at 12 o’clock. Destination 
was Lac Bouchette, but because of several 
delays at the dam we were not on the Ottawa 
until about 7 p.m. Travelling north, a storm 
suddenly began to brew on the horizon. Turn- 
ing into Wabash Bay we found a fish and 
game club, where we asked for information 
regarding a camp spot... we were invited in 
just before the rains came — and did it come! 
So we slept in beds this night and had tomato 
sandwiches and coffee before retiring ... 
nice treat! 


WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 19 

Another rainy day, it has rained every 
night since the second night of the trip. 
Thank goodness for the tent. Cal and Bruce 
made raisin bread, and chocolate pie this 
morning. Bushed or not, it was tasty. Visited 
the Forest Ranger tonight at Lac Bouchette 
and made arrangements to go to the tower 
with the boys tomorrow. 


THURSDAY, AUGUST 20 
Another day of rain, broken by the ex- 
citement of missing a 5 pound Pike. In the 
afternoon, we met two American boys from 
N. J. travelling from their base camp, on Lake 
Verendrye. Invited them to our camp-fire 
supper, and also Emile the ranger; had an 
interesting talk with him and we all learned 
much about this region and some tricks of 
camping trade. Emile enjoyed the antics of 
the fellows and instructed Bernie on portaging 
techniques. We examined an Indian birch-bark 
canoe cached near our camp-site. Indians still 

trap beaver and mink in some areas. 


a eer ; as 
ee : Sei 
Re a ae ste ae 
ene Bice lag eas 
o — 
om ae ; ome i ae 


le : 
Meeting the lumber supply boat 


FRIDAY, AUGUST 21 
Fellows did some cooking in the morning 
and we had Pizza-Pie for supper. Climbed 
the ranger tower again today ... we were 
able to see as far as Dorval Lodge (30 miles). 
Emile came to visit our camp fire in the eve- 
ning and taught us a few words of Algonquin. 


SATURDAY, AUGUST 22 
Said good-bye to Emile this morning and 
paddled to Lake Nanouatan, 21 miles. A 
beautiful sunny day for a change — the first 
in fact since 11 days. Saw an otter and had 
a soup stop on Lake Barriere on a pretty little 
island with old cedars and sandy beach. 


SUNDAY, AUGUST 23 

Made camp at Nanouatan last night, wak- 
ing this morning to more bad weather. Very 
cold. This evening the two American boys 
pulled in again, very tired. Very sincere and 
mature boys; they are both 16. They made 
camp with us for the night. Before turning in, 
they read their Bible. 


MONDAY, AUGUST 24 

I was up at 6 with the Yankees. They 
hope to paddle almost 50 miles today and it 
is cold and wet. We wished them bon-voyage 
and ourselves struck out for Dozois... given 
a tow by a Yankee motor boat 4 miles from 
Dorval, arriving there about 5:00, where we 
met Pete’s group and camped nearby. 


WHERE LEADERSHIP IS MAN TO MAN 


TOP CALIBRE LEADERS PROVIDE GUIDANCE 
TO THE STEPPING-STONES TO MANHOOD 


Tripping with the Voyageurs is a true test of a boy’s mettle. It calls upon his 
manliness, his physical prowess and his courage. It provides all the ruggedness and 


challenge that nature, in all her varying moods can offer. 


In this setting a group of five older boys quickly learn that leadership is 
strictly ‘‘man to man’’. Tripping leaders are skillful voyageurs in the wilderness of 
Quebec. They are also mature college men chosen for their good character, and their 


understanding of problems boys face at the threshold to manhood. 


QUALITY LEADERSHIP IS THE BIG COST 


In all its years of work with Youth as a character education force, the Y.M.C.A. 
believes that the most important program expense is the investment in leadership 
persons. Social studies indicate that much character is developed out of association 
with groups of like-minded individuals . . . the kinds of ideas, attitudes and values 


the Y.M.C.A. introduces to camp groups are thereby of vital importance. 


On this new Voyageurs adventure in Y.M.C.A. camping 39% of the total budget 


goes to obtain skilled and mature personnel. 


10 


PLANNING FOR VOYAGEURS ’6O 


TEN VOYAGEURS TRIPS ARE PLANNED 
FOR THE SUMMER OF 1960 


Additional leadership persons are being engaged. A new training Base 
Camp will be established in the north this year rather than operating out of Kamp 
Kanawana at St. Sauveur. This will encourage the Voyageurs to acquire a feeling 


of self-determination and complete freedom from any formal camp program setting. 


QUALIFICATIONS 


Voyageurs ’60 is planned for boys, 14—17, who have preferably had 
some camping and tripping experience. Minimum swimming ability is 150 
yards for every Voyageur, coupled with a general requirement of good 
physical health. 


TRIPPING DATES AND FEES 


Trips will be organized in two periods: 
July 9th to July 30th — 3 week period — $150.00 
July 30th to Aug. 27th — 4 week period — $185.00 


EQUIPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION 


Food, packs, tents, and gear are all provided by the YMCA. Transport 
by bus to and from the Base Camp is additional. Lists of recommended 


personal clothing and effects are available on inquiry. 


REGISTRATION 


Early inquiries are recommended since the ‘‘Company of Voyageurs’”’ 
for 1960 will be limited to 50 boys. Application may be made to any 
Branch of the YMCA in Montreal or the Camping Office — 1441 
Drummond Street. 


11 


Whether you eat it 
or frame it, 


the fishing’s terrific! 


Y.M.C.A. STANDS FOR 


CERTAIN VALUES 


We call them ‘‘Values for Living’’. These 
values are not fixed points or absolutes to 
which people adhere . . . they are goals 
which provide direction to the character 
development of individuals. 


The new ‘‘Values for Living’’ statement 
brings to the historical three-fold purpose of 
the Y.M.C.A. a fresh focus that is specific, 
meaningful, and practicable for young people. 


Healthy and Fit 
Intelligent and Reasonable 


Emotionally Adequate 
Self-Reliant and Responsible 
Socially Co-operative 
Individually Re-Creative 
Motivated by Principle 
Spiritually Vital 
Aesthetically Appreciative 


MONTREAL Y.M.C.A. ..+ CAMP OFFICE... 1441 DRUMMOND ST. 


