CANOE TRIPS Register 


Now for 


ea, 
“nen past i 


wh 


Plan to Join For Summer '63 


Les Voyageurs de LaVérendrye 


* 


A CHALLENGING EXPERIENCE FOR SENIOR 
BOYS STANDING AT THE THRESHOLD TO 


MANHOOD WHERE LEADERSHIP IS MAN 
TO MAN 


TOP CALIBRE LEADERS PROVIDE GUIDANCE 
TO THE STEPPING-STONES TO MANHOOD 


Canoeing with the Voyageurs is a true test of a boy's mettle. It calls 
upon his manliness, his physical prowess and his self reliance. It provides all the 


ruggedness and challenge that nature, in all her varying moods can offer. 


In this setting a group of five older boys quickly leam that leadership is 
strictly "man to man". Tripping leaders are skillful voyageurs in the wilderness 
of Quebec. They are also mature college men chosen for their good character, 
YMCA experience and their understanding of problems boys face at the threshold 


to manhood, 


DIRECTORS: 


W. F. Halliday - Director - Les Voyageurs 
A. Ross Seaman, Director of Boys' Camping - Montreal Y.M.C.A. 


OPERATED BY THE MONTREAL YMCA 
1441 Drummond Street VI. 4-0131 


ie 


PLANNING FOR VOYAGEURS ’63 


TEN VOYAGEURS TRIPS ARE PLANNED 
( ) FOR THE SUMMER OF 1963 


Leaders are now being engaged. A permanent training Base Camp has 


been established on Lac Landronto encourage Les Voyageurs to acquire a feeling 


of self-determination and complete freedom from any formal camp program 


setting. 


QUALIFICATIONS 


Voyageurs '63 is planned for boys, 14-17, who have preferably had some 


camping and tripping experience. Minimum swimming ability is 150 yards 


for every Voyageur, coupled with a general requirement of good physical 


health, 


VOYAGE DATES AND FEES 
Trips will be organized in two periods: 


July 2nd to July 30th 
five groups of five boys - 4 weeks - $185.00 


( July 26th to August 23rd 
five groups of five boys - 3 weeks - $150.00 


EQUIPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION 


Food, packs tents, and gear are all provided by the YMCA. 


Transport by 


bus to and from the Base Camp is additional. Lists of recommended 


personal clothing and effects will be provided. 


REGISTRATION LIMITED TO 50 BOYS 


Early inquiries are recommended since the "Company of Voyageurs" for 
1963 will be limited to 50 boys. Application may be made to any Branch 
of the YMCA in Montreal or the Camping Office - 1441 Drummond Street, 
Phone: VI. 4-0131 - Ext. 39 


DESIGNING A 
SENIOR CAMPING EXPERIENCE 


FOR TEEN-AGE BOYS 


Three hundred miles north of Montreal is La Verendrye Park. Within 
several thousand square miles of virgin bush and lakes, some occasional Indian 
encampments, Hudson's Bay Posts, lumber camps, and Fire Rangers are the only 
signs of civilization. This was the land of New France... The domain of 
Radisson, the home of the Algonquins, and the once busy territory of the French 
beaver-trapping voyogeurs. Into this vast unspoiled country went 38 boys ona 


land of wilderness adventure that would inspire the imagination of any teenage 


boy. 


The YMCA has been concerned about the needs of the older boy in camp~ 
ing. By the time a lad has had five or six years of organized camp program, he 
feels he has "had the course" and is looking for a more challenging experience. 
What kind of summer adventure could YMCA offer to answer the needs of a teen- 
age boy. . . a boy who stands shorn of childish pursuits yet unprepared and un~ 
accepted inthe adult world? It hadto bea kind of experience that would challenge 
him physically and intellectually; that would appeal to his boyish imagination; 


that would stimulate him to recognize and accept the responsibilities of growing 


into manhood. 


In 1959 the Metropolitan Boys Camp Committee of the Montreal YMCA 
set up four three-week, and four four-week canoe-trip "voyageurs'' adventures 


into the Quebec northlands. The project involved 38 boys, 14-17 years old. 


Each "voyageurs" group is comprised of five boys and a senior YMCA leader. 


NO ORDINARY CAMP-OUT TRIP 


Leadership is the first concern. This is no ordinary camp~out trip... 
the voyageurs leaders have to have a great variety of skills. Most important, they 
have camping skills and experience that guarantees their ability to live for three 
weeks in the Quebec wilderness with no access to city life. But there is another 


kind of leadership that is important . . . the kind of mature man who can recog- 


nize and fulfill the needs of a growing teenage boy. 


BE SON ets tt. A CR i ey 


Five fellows living together for three weeks, 


in a challenging and exciting adventure..... 
the company of Voyageurs cover some 200 miles 
of wild lakes, rivers, rapids, and portages, 
rediscover the trails of Radisson and the beaver-trapping 


voyageurs of the old Northwest Company of the 1680's. 


TRAINING AT THE BASE CAMP 


A sleep-out "Base-Camp" is established as a training camp where the 
Voyageurs spend several days getting acquainted with each other and brushing up 
on theircamping skills. This orientation program includes the use of canoe equip~ 


ment, bedding down, and cooking. 


Canvas canoes built for fast andrough waters, and light enough for frequent 
portaging later become the pride of each group. At Base Camp the neophyte 
Voyageurs study proper care for and repair of tom canvas and cracked ribbings. 
There are lessons in map reading with government topographical maps. . . there 


is no one to ask direction of in La Verendrye Park? 


Camping is a real experience when the equipment is sensible and comfort~ 
able. The Base Camp training is valuable in many ways. Packing procedures are 
rehearsed for food packs and gear since everything for the venture has to be 
carried. Tents are pitched with squaw poles cut on the site, sodcloths are dug in, 
and nylon screen flaps closed. Then a shot of insecticide and everyone is safe 


from pests of the night and the worst that nature 's violent moods can provide. 


INTO THE LAND OF HISTORY 


From their northern station, the Voyageurs set out on separate routes, 
planned and mapped by themselves. Covering miles of wild lakes, rivers, 
rapids, and portages. Five fellows living together for three weeks ina challenging 


and inviting adventure! no switches for lights, no turn of the dial for cooking. 


SAFETY PRECAUTIONS 


Senior YMCA officials are always aware of the location of each group and 
Voyageur Leaders are able to call for assistance quickly in the event of an emer~ 
gency. Canadian Intemational Paper Company bush telephones or Fire Rangers 


communications are available throughout the territory. 


THIS IS LE PARC DE LA VERENDRYE 


C HERE FOR YOU 
Three hundred miles north of Montreal is 
TO EXPLORE La Verendrye Park. Within several 


Crimea fF f PY venain, thousand square miles of virgin bush 


and lakes, some occasional Indian 


encampments, Hudson's Bay 


ieee 


Posts, lumber camps and Fire 
Ranger Posts you will find 
the thrill of adventure. 
This is the land you 
can re-explore this 


summer, 


( ‘OP CALIBRE LEADERS 
~ SHOW YOU THE WAY 


Tripping leaders are skilled 


voyageurs in the wilderness 


Fern 


of Quebec. They are all 


\5 rf "On no 
pia Sz Mile, Mon 


mature college men chosen e 
t Jean-su 

. 7 A 

for their good character and hah ei 


their understanding of boys. 


Gta ¢ . 
Grin - Schyan ouby> . 


OVINCIAL 


a 


dete te ™ AndA 


Whether you eat it 
or frame it, 


the fishing’s terrific! 


Y.M.C.A. STANDS FOR 


Healthy and Fit* 


CERTAIN VALUES 


Intelligent and Reasonable 
Emotionally Adequate 


We call them "Values for Living". These Self-Reliant and Responsible 
values are not fixed points or absolutes to 
which people adhere. . . they are goals 
which provide direction to the character 


development of individuals. 


Socially Co-operative 
Individually Re-Creative 
Motivated by Principle 
Spiritually Vital 
Aesthetically Appreciative 


The new "Values for Living" statement brings 
to the historical three-fold purpose of the 
Y.M.C.A. a fresh focus that is specific, 
meaningful, and practicable for young people. 


MONTREAL Y.M.C.A. ..- CAMP OFFICE... 1441 DRUMMOND ST. 


