fs 


. , lo : Aine 
GENERAL COMMENTS 


This year's camp of Les Voyageurs can boast the — 


largest enrollment of its three year history as forty boys 


ie; 
a 


benefitted from the "bush" experience. Twenty-five boys Ye 


ines 


were present for the first period operation while fifteen 
attended the second period. As twenty-five is the capacity e 
of the camp it can be seen that we were ten short during the | 
second period. We feel this situation may be rectified by a 
more elaborate promotion program, and also by changing the 
periods so that the four week period is the first period. A 
more comprehensive presentation of our feelings with regards 
to the changing of periods can be found on the tape recording 
of our evaluation session. 

We were faced with a particularly trying problem : 
during the first period this summer when we were "locked" in 
the "bush" for twelve days as a result of the dangerous fire 
hazard situation. The restrictions placed on us made it 
extremely difficult to operate the camp within the framework 
intended. Although lunch fires were forbidden, we were able 
to use our Trail Stove and the Coleman Stove. With these 
facilities it would have been a relatively simple matter to 
cook for the whole camp as one group, but this would have 
defeated the idea of autonmous groups. Therefore, each group 
did its own cooking, arranging their own menus at allotted 
times, thus maintaining a certain amount of autonomy. 

Program during the forest closing was a big problem 


when you consider that our philosophy for this camp does not 


lend itself to the planning of orgenized program. To plan 


some program would have been the easy way out, but it would 
have defeated our purpose. In following the camp's purpose, 
we therefore left each group to provide their own entertainment. 
Needless to say, adequate guidance was provided when and where 
necessary. This guidance was in most cases only necessary 
during the early days of the period - during the time when 
the boys were adjusting to the type of programming we were 
attempting to stimulate. The type of programming or philosophy 
we were attempting to stimulate may be described as follows: - 
It appears that more and more of today's boys have 
programs planned for them - agencies provide recreation 
for them, team sports are planned for then, in some 
cases parents allot responsibilities to them, and in 
many camps a Program Director sets down a program 
they are to follow. Our idea at Cemp Les Voyageurs 
has been to help the boy use his own initiative within 
a group setting in the "bush". Our program is merely 
"living in the bush" and it is hoped that this fulfills 
the goals set by both campers and parents. (i.e) having 
fun while learning and growing. 
Following the ideas of programming mentioned above 
proved very frustrating at times due to the extonted stay in 
a confined area, but eventually, all crews took on a large 
project to busy themselves with. It is interesting to note 
that in practically every case the idea for the project came 
from the boys themselves. One such project was a Giant Water 


Swing, (apparently a great success) an idea which couldn't 


> a 


possibly originate anywhere but in the imaginative group mind 
of five adolescents. 

When the forests finally opened, we only had eight 
days of camp in which to do some tripping. Naturally trips 


were short, but nevertheless successful, thus providing a 


satisfactory climax to the first period of this summer's camp. 

The second period of camp ran very smoothly without # 
problems such as forest closing. As mentioned above, we only 
had three groups. Each group first took a short orientation 
trip of about five days' duration following which a longer 
trip was taken consisting of sixteen to eighteen days. On 
this longer trip one crew set up their own base camp on 4 
secluded lake and spent most of their time at this site. This 
arrangement worked out extremely well as the group was able 
to do true "bush" camping and at the same time have ample 
opportunity to enjoy and appreciate their surroundings. (i.e) 
Indian encampments, end nature signs such as wolf tracks, 
beaver teeth etc. These are many of the experiences that are 
missed by other crews who spend considerable time tripping, 
but it should be realized that this type of arrangement was 
successful probably because of the older age and supenten wer athraneed 
maturity of this particular group. With a different type of 
group this sort of trip may not have been as successful. 

One of the other crews did very little tripping 
during the long trip but moved from site to site, spending 
considerable time at each site. Once again this was satisfactory 
for this particular crew, but it may not have worked for 


another. 


Neither of the trips mentioned above would have been 
satisfactory for the third crew, and in view of this they took 
a@ very long and rough trip. The trip tended to bring the crew 
together into a more closely working group which was the 


desired result. 


CAMPER GROWTH 

Camper growth is very difficult to measure objectively. 
To the best of our ability we hope our objectives for the 
campers covered all of the YMCA's "Values for Living". However, 
our emphasis, which were four in number, may sound a bit 
different. Our emphasis was placed on inter-dependency, self 
discipline (as opposed to discipline administered by a leader), 
socially comfortable (gaining of confidence in one's self), 
and stimulating some thinking for one's self about life in 
general. As mentioned above, to adequately measure success in 
these areas is practically impossible with the tools we have. 
However, the staff as a whole discussed the growth of each 
individual thus providing outside observers. Also, the Director 
hed sessions with each tripper in the hopes that camper growth 
may be evaluated. We strongly feel that considerable camper 
growth was realized, not losing sight of the fact that our 
findings are very subjective. The Director, as an outside 
observer, feels he saw considerable positive growth, particularly 


in the second period. 


STAFF 

Although in any operation, the calibre of the staff 
is important to the success of the operation, we may say that 
this is doubly so with Gam Les Voyageurs. The reason for 
saying this is fairly obvious. Because of the autonomous 
operation of the groups, the lack of close supervision, and 
the small size of the camp, a "weak link" cannot be absorbed by 
stronger staff members. Also, because of the inability of staff 
members to enjoy the occasional day off in a completely new 
setting away from the responsibilities of the job, morale is 
extremely important. In view of these facts, the importance of 
high calibre staff cannot be over emphasized. — 

‘\ With only one exception, this year's staff filled the 
above requirements perfectly. Alex Ross, who was with us for 
only the first period, was the youngest member of our staff, 
and although his intentions were good, and he possessed an 
extreme desire to turn in a good job, he was nevertheless unable 
to grasp the philosophy we were attempting to put forth. This 
may have been no fault of his, but might rather have been the 
result of inadequate supervision, supervision being very difficult 
in a "bush" camp setting. This vould underline the required 
high calibre of staff as was mentioned above. 

Of the four remaining Trippers it would be next to 
impossible to choose one over the other in Bo far as performance 
was concerned. Each one had a slightly different way of operating, 
and the atmosphere created by the flexibility of aixtonomous 
groups lended itself to this individuality, resulting in an 


‘. 


excellent job done by all. ~ 


‘\ 


\ 


Keith Lewis, with the camp for a second term, more or 
less handled \the job of Assistant Camp Director. Although this 
was not his officiel title, he did fall into this position. 
Keith is an excellent "bushman" and very capable in organizing 
the camp where organization is necessary. He was perhaps the 
greatest asset to al1 \yechanical aspects of the camp. Also, his 
ability to work with adolescente was shown in the success he had 
with his group. \ 

Frank Carpentér wad, also serving a second term with 
the camp having been on the Dave Camp Staff two years previously. 
Although Frank took a crew only in the first period, he was 
definitely not relieved of these duties in the second period 
because he was a weak member on the ‘staff. Quite to the contrary, 
Frank turned in an excellent job with particular credit going to 
his success with the group during the forest closing. The reason 
Frank was chosen to remain in Base Camp eer the second period 
was because his personality fitted in best with the Director's. 
Frank has a profound understanding of the philosophy of the camp 
and is able to put his understanding to good usd in a@ group. Also, 
Frank possesses considerable knowledge of the suri unding area and 
contacts as a result of his close relationship eae 
in the second period and because of his Base Camp position two 
years ago. In view of these above qualifications it is strongly 
recommended that he be procured for next year's staff as he would 
be invaluable to the new Director. , 


Rusty McKay came to us from Western University followi 


several years experience at Kamp Kanawana. He was quick to catch 


oe 


on to the philosophy of the camp and very conscientious in 

working with his group. He was greatly concerned with being able 
to accomplish some worthwhile growth with his boys and I would 

say that he certainly achieved satisfactory results. Rusty was 
perhaps bell a bit idealistic in setting his goals for the group, 
and therefore found it difficult to accept the shortcomings of 

the group, but n vertheless, this over sensitivity of his seemed 
to pay off in the end as he was very effective in finding the 
problem areas, and seemed reasonably satisfied with the end result. 
The Director was certainly satisfied. 

We might consider Bob McNeil as an experiment. Last 
year we hired a Tripper with a great deal of skills in the bush 
but lacking in experience yorkine with youth. The results were 
very discouraging. This year we hired Bob who was completely 
lacking in camp skills, but had experience working with youth 
through his Physical Education course at Western University. 

Also, Bob came out very favorable on Dr. Dimock's attitude scale 
of Counselor prediction. Although Bob abpeared apathetic at the 
beginning, we were quick to learn that thik was just his manner 


while warming up to his new environment. He spent considerable 


time reading about camping and conversing with fellow staff 
members in an effort to acquire camp skills during\the training 
days prior to camp's opening, and his particular type of person- 
ality certainly made it possible for him to continue learning 

from his boys once camp got under way. Thanks to his ddcire to 
learn, and his ability to grasp and put into effect the philosophy 


of the camp, Bob turned in an excellent job. Although Bob case 


may a alc the importance of experience and understanding in 
working \with youth, I would not suggest that we can draw any 


from the fact that he was unskilled in camping. Bob 


due to his own physical activities, and both these coupled with 


a keen and imaginative mind. 

I would stron ly recommend Bob, Rusty, Frank and Keith 
for staff positions es 

The two Base Camp ‘positions, which were created this 
year, worked out very well. Pete Marosi, a three year old Les 


\ 


Voyageurs camper from Montreal, ‘and Tom Sides, a one year old 
camper from Conn., were hired for\these positions. As this was a 
new position, their job eae to be very flexible until 


such time that it became clear in oun minds what their duties 


should be. A job description was laid\down before camp commenced, 
but it was found that many changes and charifications had to be 

made as camp progressed thru such abnormal\conditions as forest 

closing. The reason for the concern regardi a definite job 
description was to prevent the Base Camp boys from becoming a 
couple of "Joe Boys". In view of this they were given definite 
responsibilities such as complete control of food and its issue, 
and aiding the Director in general care and upkeep of the Base 

Camp plant and equipment. The Director found these bays to be of 
particular value as companions while crews were on the trail, and 
more important, in remembering and helping with many of e details 


involved in this or any operation, as the Director was at i 


aa ee 


prone to overlook some of the details. However, they too failed 
to remember the correct date for the opening of camp. The Base 
Camp bays were also involved in any discussions or meetings held 
by the other staff and they made many concrete and worthwhile 
contributions. To sum up, the Base Camp boys' job may well be 


described as job for the purpose of aiding the Director in the 


operation of the\Base Camp set-up so that the Director may be 
relieved from many of the mechanical aspects of directing the 
camp, thus leaving him\free to devote more of his time to 
administrating and suvervi ing. These two Base Camp positions 
proved invaluable to the successful operation of the camp and 
it is strongly recommended that t ey be retained next year. 

Tom and Pete were particularly fine choices for the 
Base Camp positions this year because F) their familiarity with 
the camp and their willingness to do ae Tom was 
particularly sharp and capable, and he also ‘possesses a fine 


personality coupled with a helpful attitude towards staff and 


campers alike. His unselfish and unbiased attitude towards kids 


would be worth remembering in considering future Kanawane or Les 
Voyageurs staff. 
NOTE: - For Base Camp staff next year I wouly like to 


recommend Jim Legein. I was Jim's Tripper one 


\ 

summer and worked with him in a Hi-Y club Nor one 
Winter. He was a camper this year with Fra 
Carpenter. I know him to possess a great de of 
initiative, a very necessary qualification for the 


position of Base Camp Boy, and his personality \is 


- 10 - 


“puch that he would be desirable to have around 
for the ten week period. Knowing a great deal 
about Jim*s_ personal life, homelife and problems, 
I would say ai experience as Base Camp Boy 
working in close vonnection with the Director 
would be most beneficial to Jim in helping him 


to sort out his attitudedvend set of values. I 


am sure the new Director wo find him a very 


fine choice for the position, and ask that at 


the very least, Jim be given every consi eration. 


BASE CAMP 

This year the Base Camp site was moved from Lac 
Nanouaton to the lower end of Lac Landron. Much of the appeal 
this area offers was described in last year's report, and 
following a summer's experience in the area, we found it more 
than lived up to expectations. However, it does have one 
disadvantage - it is quite a distance from the main highway. 
This presents a problem in transporting the campers from the 
Barriere Gate to Lac Landron. This year we transported the boys 
with our own truck, but it is obvious that this is extremely hard 
on the truck and also very inconvenient when you consider the 
time element. It is our suggestion that an all out effort be 
made to charter a bus for the trip, and this should be done 
early in the year. Edgar Moore in Maniwaki or Romeo in St. 


Sauveur are two people to consider. A bus could bring the boys 


=~ i] an 


within three or less miles from the Base Camp landing. 


Because Lac Landron is ideal as a Base Camp set-up, it 


is strongly recommended that immediate steps be taken to obtain 


&@ lease for the area. 


Base Camp facilities were found to be most adecuate 


for this summer's operation. 


36 


RECOMMENDATIONS 
Promotion this year was stepped up considerably from last 
year, but there is still much desire for more active and 
earlier promotion. 
Arrangements should be made early in the year to charter a 
bus for the purpose of transporting campers closer to the 
Base Camp landing. 
A few books should be purchased to be made available to 
campers. (ie) camp craft, nature lore, sex etc. Many such 
books were in the camp this year, but they belonged to 
Trippers, and although they were available to campers, I am 
not sure the campers were aware of this. 
A lease for the Lac Landron area should be obtained immediately. 
Food issue and evaluetion forms should be revised and 
brought up to date regarding changes in some types of food, 
elimination of others, and adding of new types. The system 
for issuing food this year was found to be most satisfactory, 
and before the forms are revised, it is suggested that this 
system be gone over with a previous staff member so that the 


best possible form might be devised to svit the intended 


Nive ae 
- 12 = 


purpose. Frank Carpenter or Pete Marosi would be most familiar 


with the problems of food issuing. See appendix for the two 
types of sheets presently being used. We feel these two 
sheets might be combined so that only one type of sheet 
would be necessary. 

Jack Organ proposed a crest for Les Voyageurs complete 

with a legend. It is hoped that serious consideration will 
be given to the adoption of this crest. We recommend that 
this crest be made of high grade felt and not be so large as 


to take away from its prestige. 


