EASTERN COMMUNITIES PROJECT ~ EXTENSION PROGRAM OF INTERNATIONAL Y.M.C.A. 
REPORT OF OPERATIONS 


May 1963 to Dec.1963 


In April 1963, the Metropolitan Board approved the establishment 
of an Extension office of the International Branch at the Boulevard 
Shopping Center. Apvroval was also given for a one year trial period 
of Vocational, Educational and Service types of programmes as outlined 
in the International Branch submission to the Metropolitan Board. 


The following is a report on operations of this Extension Program 
for the six month period ending Dec. 31st, 1963, together with an 
assessment of results to’ date and recommendations concerning future 
operation of the project. 


REPORT ON OPERATIONS; 


The extension office was furnished, staffed and opened. during 
May 1963. , 

Announcements, both in English and French, were prepared outlining 
the scope of services available and the objectives of the project. These 
were distributed to all daily newspepers in the city, radio stations, 
television stations and eight community newspapers covering the eastern 
part of the city of Montreal and Eastern suburbs. All media circularized 
carried items reporting the opening of the extension office and gave 
varying amounts of coverage to the services available. 


During the initial weeks the project Director, Mr. R.B. McFarlane 
visited individuals and agencies located in, or with various operations 
serving, the area. These included, industries, parish priests, schools 
and school boards, Federal and Provincial and Municipal Departments, 
Social and Welfare agencies, etc. Each individual contacted was given 
a brief written outline of the services and types of programme which 
the center was prepared to undertake and an indication of the types of 
projects with which the center would be able to assist. 


In the period under review, a number of possible program areas 
were investigated. 


SHOPPING CENTER ; 


A number of meetings were held with the Shopping Center Merchants! 
Association and managers of the various stores. 


Specific programme proposals were made including; commercial 
courses ie Retailing for Store Employees, ladies day out, visits to the 
center and specific stores, educational services to store employees, etc. 
In each case it was not possible to get the minimum amount of interest 
and support necessary to assure some hope of programme success. 


Bins 


During the summer months it was arranged for "y" examiners to visit 
the Shopping Center outdoors swimming pool. A number of children were 
tested and about 70 were awarded cards signifying various degrees of 
swimming proficiency. 


INDIVIDUAL ASSISTANCE; 


An average of about 15 individual persons per month have been 
interviewed and wherever possible have been encouraged and assisted in 
their plans for personal improvement and growth. These are broken down 
as follows - 67% males, 23% females; of the total 33% were High School 
students; 53% were English speaking, 38% French speaking and li% from 
other language groups. About 45% were referrals from Family Service and 
Welfare Associations; 30% from schools and the balance of 25% were from 
City Agencies, Y.M.C.A., Y.W.C.A., etc. and casuals.More than one third 
were from outside the eastern area. 


ACADEMIC CLASSES: 


In Sept. plans were made to start French and English language 
classes at the Center in October. Publicity was undertaken through the 
stores in the Shopping Center, by advertising in local community news- 
papers and through language class registration at International Branch. 
Although there was a reasonable initial response, the number of per- 
sons indicating a serious intention of enrolling was so small they were 
referred to classes at the Branch. 


HIGH SCHOOLS 


For the past several months meetings have been held during the 
regular scheduled guidance periods of three classes of Practical 
Students at Dunton High School. Discussion covers such topics as student 
concern about home life, school work, vocational and career planning. 

In addition, the center provides film strips and printed material con- 
cerning vocational choice and conducts individual meetings with students 
who are planning to drop out. 


The staff of Rosemount High School has been approached regarding 
a similar type of program, but establishment of such a project does not 
appear possible at this time. 


SOCIAL AGENCIES: 


At the present time a co-operative program involving two groups 
of youth is being carried out at the Hast End Boys and Girls Club. 
There are about 15 boys in one group and about the same number of girls 
in the other. Each group meets on alternate Thursday nights. This is 
a group counselling program consisting of discussion and field trips. 
Arrangements have been made for all participants to take a series of 
tests provided by the Applied Social Sciences Center of Sir George 
Williams University. To date more than half of all group members have 
completed testing. 


-3- 
POTENTIAL PROGRAM AREAS: 


Juvenile Court; - A series of discussions with inmates of the 
Juvenile Detention Home regarding employment is tenatively scheduled to 
start this month. 


Churches; - Possibility of leadership development and group guid- 
ance program assistance to English speaking churches is under prelim- 
inary consideration. 


ADVISORY COMMITTEE: 


A bilingual project advisory committee has been established. Three 
French speaking and three English speaking men with interests in the 
Eastern section of the city are serving on the committee under the chair- 
manship of Mr. A. Kabbash, a member of the International Board. 


UTILIZATION OF RESOURCES: 


Building space; - Space provided has been more than adequate and 
has not been fully utilized. 


Professional Staff;- The Project Director has been fully employed 
investigating possible areas of service, planning, initiating, and directing 
program and other related duties. 


Financial; - The budget has been adequate for programme requirements 
to date. No program possibility which came within our terms of reference 
and for which our other resources were adequate has had to be neglected 
because of financial limitations. 


OBSERVATIONS CONCERNING THE PROJECT: 


1.) Involvement of French speaking individuals in program and de- 
velopment of contacts with French speaking groups has been 
very disappointing. 


2) Changes in the method of academic grading, provision of in- 
creased guidance facilities by school boards and strict ad- 
herance to school board policy would indicate that our pre- 
sent "in school" type of group program has a limited future. 


3) Group counselling programs together with individual Guidance 
and Counselling service and eventual job placement are rec- 
ognized as urgent needs of the eastern communities. 


l.) The need for individual counselling and guidance is great. 
This type of service is time consuming, costly and beyond our 
staff resources. : 


S) Anticipated response to programs designed to vorovide even a 
limited amount of income has not been materialized. 


-l- 
ASSESSMENT OF OPERATIONS: 


Within the limits of the terms of reference and resources under 
which the project was undertaken the following evaluation was approved 
by the Advisory Committee. 


a) Information regarding the project has been brought to the 
attention of individuals, groups and organizations in the 
community who might be interested. 


b) Establishment of services to or in co-operation with the 
shopping center personal is extremely unlikely. 


c) There is no immediate possibility of establishing revenue 
producing program. 


d) Development of "French" program will be a slow long-range 
project at best. 


e) Program development to date has been largely with the dim- 
jnishing "English" population of the area. 


f) The approach to the Project has been sound. 


g) Program established to date confirms the need for Guidance 
Services in the area. 


h) There is serious doubt that results to date justify the ex- 
penditure. 


RECOMMENDATIONS: 


In view of the above and taking into consideration other pertinent 
factors, the Board of Management of the International Branch makes the 
following recommendations. 


1) No new programs be started in the area. 


2) All current programs be run until completed in April or earl- 
ier as scheduled. 


3) Such assistance as is requested be given to personol at the 
East End Boys Club to enable their staff to carry out future 
group guidance programs. 


l.) Immediate notice be given regarding termination of the lease 
on the space at the Shopping Center. 


5) A report on our operations and reasons for leaving the area 
be prepared and distributed to all persons and organizations 
associated with the Y.M.C.A. in the eastern section of the 
city. 


-5- 


6) All phases of the Project be completed, and the Project ter- 
minated by April 30, 196l. 


7) The Metropolitan Program Committee consider the advisability 
and possibility of continuing group guidance programs in the 
eastern area and the possible use of this type of program 
in other parts of the city. 


Respectfully submitted, 


Basil Burgess, 
Chairman, 
Branch Board of Management. 


Alex Kabbash, 
Chairman, 
Eastern Extension Committee. 


January 22, 196). 


