ANNUAL 


REPORT 


KAMP KANAWANA 
196), 


MONTREAL 


Oe et a emma et 
ae gee eee ent EE RR NE NRTA ee 
Peer AINE TE allan TES CAS 
Fee SOUS eae BERS CAR a7 Bae ILS ST EN NES Rh 8 
rn rt te ce cn ratte teams Se te 
cite ppt Nr eer 
a eC SEE Dye AE TEE AES SS NALLY TESS AYO E EES IA Ka RRU TERE AB 
“ wi 


YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION 


Introduction 


Staff 


The Seventy-First Annual Report of 
Kamp Kanawana of the YMCA of Montreal 


Nineteen hundred and sixty-four was the seventy-first 
season cf the Montreal Boys' Kamp Kanawana, established 
in 189). Kanawana is rich in the tradition of service to 
the Montreal community in the boys camping field. 


It is the goal of Kamp Kanawana to provide an opportunity 
for fun, growth and development of boys in the outdoor 
setting offered by camp. Sometimes it is dramatic to see 
the things that happen to people at Kanawana, the change 
and growth that takes place in both campers and staff 
lead to the belief that the camp is in part attaining 

its goal, 


The report that follows is an effort to outline some of 

the high points of the season's operation and recommendations 
that will help Kanawana to move further towards the 
accomplishment of its goals. 


This season Kanawana had the most mature staff of the last 
six years. The average age of the counsellor group was 
19.8 years. An increase of 1.2 years over 1962, Eighteen 
(or 60%) of the thirty-one counsellors were university 
students, three were university graduates and the remainder 
had completed gunior or senior matriculation. They were 
paid an average salary of $173. The salary range was 

$100 to $280 with six receiving salary cf over #200. 
Salaries are based on age, education and experience. 

Nine counsellors had previously been at Kanawana in the 
capacity of a counsellor, the balance being new to 
Kanawona this year. 


The four section directors were all school teachers, 

The Pathfinder section director Stanley Wasilewski. 
completed his 5th year as a section director at Kanawana. 
Kenneth Fellows was section director in the Coureurs de 
Bois for the 2nd year. Dave Caddell and Bob Drummond 
section directors of the Woodsmen and Pioneer Sections 
respectively, were in their first year as section directors 
at the camp. 


Staff Training 


Recommendation 


Ben T. Hannan was the Assistant Camp Director 

for his fifth year. This meant that three of the 
five senior staff members at the camp had previous 
Kanawana experience. 


It should be noted here that Ben Hannan has spert 

fifteen years as a member’ of the staff at Kanawava 

and has made a unique and outstanding contribution” to 

the Kamp. Ben, as he is affectionately known to the 

camp, has a warm outgoing personality and an ability to 
help that has endeared him to all who have had the 
opportunity of working with him. His dedication and 
service to Kanawana has made his contribution outstanding. 
A school teacher by vocation, a Kanawanian by avocation, 
Ben has enriched the lives of both campers and staff over 
the fifteen years he has been a member of the Kanawana staff, 


The staff of the camp this year came from a wide variety 
of backgrounds, In one section alone six different 
countries were represented on the staff, one from Holland, 
one from Poland, three from England, one from France, one 
from Australia and of course from Canada. Three of the 
staff were English University students who came to Canada 
on a student chartered plane and stayed nine weeks in camp 
before making a tour of parts of Canada and the United States. 
This diversification of staff backgrounds added much to the 
richness of the season both to campers and staff alike, 
Staff members came from as far east in Canada as Cane 
Breton Island to Toronto in the west and as far south 

as Virginia in the United States. 


For a full week prior to the opening of camp the staff 
took part in a training program. The content of this 
program is divided roughly in half between camping skills 
and training o work with campers, The evaluation of the 
training week by the staff recommends more time in the 
acquiring of camping skills so that the counsellors may 
feel more comfortable in their role of working with the 
boys. This in no way negates the need for adequate time 
being given to learning about camper behaviour and the 
working with boys in groups. 


It is recommended that the pre-camp training period be 
extended by at least or 5 days. This would involve 
increase costs for staff training but it is possible that 7 
for 1965 additional fund could be available for this 
purpose, Full time staff of the Montreal YMCA 


could be available to serve as trainers. While 

it is unlikely that all of the staff could be present 
for the entire training period, 70 to 80% of the staff 

members would be in attendance. It has been found that 

those who arrive late for such a training program find 

an incentive to work harder to catch up with the others. 


Campers This year there was a total of 535 boys attending Kanawana. 
68% or 36 campers spent two weeks at camp. It would seem 
more and more that a two week stay at camp is the most 
popular length of stay. 131 boys stayed four weeks at 
camp this season, 12 boys spent six weeks at camp and 20 
boys spent the entire season at camp. 


This season there were campers from Bahamas, U.S.A. and 

two boys from Japan whose fathers are residing in Montreal 

as members of I.C.A.0, One camper came from Haiti, his 
father being the commander of the army of that country. 

The two boys from Japan spoke little English but their 

warm personalities and broad smiles made understanding 

them a simple matter and thev thoroughly enjoyed their 

stay at the camp, Their counsellor who came from Malysia 

and spoke four different eastern languages, but unfortunately 
Japanese was not among them, 


Each year the camp seems to attract an increasing number of 
French campers, many of whom are sent to Kanawana to learn 
English, There were many 'new Canadian! boys at the camp 
from such countries as Hungary, Holland, Germany, France 
and Italy. 


The new YMHA camp has made no difference to the total 
number of Jewish boys attending Kanawana, It would seem 
reasonable to predict that we will always retain a fair 
number of Jewish campers, as the parents of many of them 
feel that this is a good opportunity for them to get 
outside of the Jewish community for a period of time, 


New Property This year Kanawana added approximately 120 acres to the 
site with the acquisition of property at the south end 
of Lake Wilson, namely a part of lot 215 and lots 216 
and 217 in the Parish of St. Sauveur. This property was 
acquired to protect Lake Wilson. Lot 215 was purchased 
in co-operation with the Boy Scout Association, Camp 
Tamaracouta. The acquisition of this lot joins the 
property of the two camps. Lot 216 and 217 were 
purchased outright by the camp to prevent the development 
of a proposed summer colony of some 200 lots. The owner - 
of this property had sufficient property at the outlet 
of Lake Wilson to allow him to offer water rights on 
Lake Wilson to the purchasers of these lots. Two lots 
100 x 50 feet have been sold and the camp is at present 
attempting to acquire these two lots as well. If these 
two lots are not acquired it would make little difference 
to the privacy of the camp. 


The purchase of this property further insures suitability 
of Kanawana as a camp site for years to come, without 
having to be concerned with outsiders using the lakes and 
surrounding property, The Kanawana property now extends 
over approximately 1,000 acres. 


Flush Toilets This year flush systems were installed in the Pioneer 
Section and Staff Toilets, all toilets in the camp are 
now flush, This is a great improvement in the camp 
improving the sanitation of the camp immeasurability. 
The two remaining units completed this year were done at 
a cost of approximately $1,000. The actual installation 
was done by the camp caretaker, Julien Tasse. 


Compressor A new compressor was purchased for the fridge replacing 
the old obsolete machine installed some 15 years ago. 
This greatly improved the refrigeration in the camp. An 
indication of this fact was that there was no food spoilage 
this season. 


Senior Waterfront Just prior to the opening of camp it was found that the 
ice had severely damaged the west end of the cement wharf 
in the swimming area. The ice had undermined the cement 
deck to the point where the high dive was in danger of 
collapsing. Holes were punched in the decking and some 
6 tons of concrete were poured to repair the damage. 
Further work will be required along the entire waterfront 
as ice has damaged the facing to the point where there 
are holes all along the front. Forms will need to be 
constructed along the entire frontage and concrete poured 
to repair this damage. 


om 4 


Junior Waterfront 


Filtration Plant 


Electric Chlorinator 


Hot Water Supply 


Recommendation 


Caretaker'ts House 


Tents 


The Junior Wharf was raised on the ice this past winter 
and completely renovated. The main supnorts had separated 
and many of the beams had rotted, This was a major job, 
but the cost was minimum, Julien Tasse doing the work, 


The general overall condition of the camp plant is excellent. 
A plant of this size requires continuous maintenance and 
repair to maintain this excellence. 


The filtration plant requires general overall, During the 
closing weeks a considerable amount of sand was prevalent 
in the water, indicating that the filtration plant was not 
functioning properly. It has been almost 15 years since the 
plant was installed and during this time it has not had an 
overhaul. It is recommended that this overhaul be done 
prior to the opening of the 1965 season, 


A new electric chlorinator installed in the water system 
this year. The taste was considerably improved and there 
was no problem in the chlorine content changing, once 
changed it was regulated, 


One of the two hot water storage tanks for general kitchen 
and camp use sprung a leak the last day of camp. There are 
two 200 gallon galvanized storage tanks, The leaking one 
cannot be safely patched. Both these tanks have been in 
use for at least ten years and the advice is that the 
remaining one will most likely go soon. Our plumber 
recommends that both these be replaced. 


It is recommended that a horizonte1 steel storage tank be 
purchased, with a capacity of approximately 00 gallons. 

A steel tank would considerably outlast the galvanized 
variety and a korizontal tank is more efficient. 


It was recommended last year that consideration be given 
to an addition to the Caretaker's House, Frank Nobbs drew 
up a plan which would add a 20 x 20 kitchen and another 
bedroom. It was hoped that this work micht be done in the 
fall of 196 but it is quite anparent that funds would not be 
available this year. As the Tasse family has increased, 
there are four children as well as Mr. & Mrs, Tasse the 
present home is completely inadequate. It is recommended 
that this addition be made in the fall of 1965, The cost 
of the addition plus an adequate furnace will cost 
approximately $3800. Julien and his assistant would do 
the actual construction, This is an essential addition, 


This year, new tents were required in the two older 
sections, tents to the dimension of 16 x 1) were purchased. 


Previously we have used 12 x 1! wall tents. 

This meant increasing the size of the tent platforms. 

As two new tent platforms were required, they were 

built to the new dimensions and the others required 

an addition to the present platforms. The larger tents 
were wich appreciated by the campers and added considerable 
floor space. Five more tents require replacing next year 
and it is proposed to purchase the larger type. Two plat- 
forms need to be replaced, the remaining three will require 
additions put on them to accommodate the additional size 

of canvas, 16 x 1) tents cost no more than the previous 
12 x 14' tents and the cost of increasing the size of the 
platforms is negligible. 


Washing Facilities It is recommended that consideration be given to 
building a wash house for the Pioneer and Woodsmen Sections 
which would include more adequate wash stands and shower- .. 
facilities. The cold weather we have been experiencing 
in the summers is not conducive to youngsters going in 
for morning dips and some days this past two summers the 
weather has been so poor, that evenswimming during the 
day is not particularly comfortable, plus the fact that 
cold water is not the best for keeping clean. A shower 
house in the two younger sections with hot water provided 
by propane gas instant heaters would considerably improve 
the cleanliness in both the younger sections, The pump 
that presently serves the two section toilets with raw 
water would be adequate to provide water for the shower 
facilities. Overall cost is estimated at $1,000. The 
present shower facilities in the camp receive their hot 
water from the central camp sunply which also supplies 
the hot water for the dish washing and kitchen cleaning 
purposes, This means that showers can only be had at 
certain times of the day, when the kitchen facilities are 
not in use and with 390 people in the camp this is not 
adequate to serve all. 


Boats & Canoes The fleet in the camp as this point requires considerable 
attention, The canoes are in fairly good condition, but 
at least three new ones should be added to the fleet this 
year at anproximatelv $130 each. The rowboats in:the camp 
require major overhaul and estimates are being obtained. 
In addition at least four or five new boats should be 
purchased at a cost of approximately $90 each. The 
increased canoe tripping program has placed extra strain 
on the tripping canoes at least three of these canoes should 
be replaced this year. 


Program Equipment The amount of program equipment in the camp urgently needs 
to be increased, e.g. bows and arrows, baseballs, footballs, 
soccer balls etc. and it is recommended that the program 
budget be increased next year to allow for the purchase 

of new equipment. 


i'ocd Cervices 


The food services of the camp this year left much to 
be desired, Part of the problem was due to an in- 
adequate Business Manager who, not only lacked the 
necessary business knowledge to keep the food supplies 
flowing steadily into the camp, but also lacked any 
ability to work along with our chef and kitchen staff, 
The quality of food that came into the camp was beyond 
reproach, However, the chef has been with the camp 
for so many years he tends, at times, to become a 
little lax and the food lacks the zest that makes 
institutional food enjoyable and acceptable; he needs 
to be constantly proded to keep his performance at a 
high level, 


For many years the camp budget has allowed a very low 
salary for an Assistant Chef, which means that we 

get a man who lacks real skills and only does the leg 
work for the chef, instead of contributing to the 

food preparation in the camp. This means that the 
chef has to be responsible for preparing and cooking 
ell the fool for 300 people daily. When trying to 
acquire a second cook after the first one quit this 
season, the camp was bluntly told by the National 
Employment Service that they simply could not find any 
second cook who was prepared to come to camp at a 
salary of $30.00 a week, and that it would be necessary 
to pay between $50.00 and $70,00 per week if we were 
to get an adequate man. 


If a permznent Business Manager is hired as recommended 
he will then have adequate time to acquire the services 
of a good second cook, but it is recommended that the 
budget Sor « second cook be raised so that we can 
attract a men with cooking skills and thus improve 

the meals at the camp. The rest of the kitchen ran 
smoothly under the kitchen supervisor this year. 

Only one kitchen boy quit during the season, which 
certainly is a record over the past six years. 


The new dishwashing machine purchased two years ago 
continued to provide the camp with adequately clean 
dishes at all times, and the kitchen was at all times 
in immaculate comition, 


Dishes ~ The present coloured plastic dishes in the 
jitchen, with some replacements, have served the camp 
now for approximately fifteen years. These dishes 
have now past both their utility and their attrac- 
tiveness, The glaze has just about completely worn 
off and they do not present an attractive table. 

This year three or four dozen plastic dishes ofa 

new variety were tried out in the camp, These dishes 
are made by the Cyanamid Company of Canada and are 


Promotion 


white with a blue border and very closely resemble 
china dishes, They present a much more attractive 
table than the old and received many favourable 
comments from staff and campers alike, 


It is recommended that a new set of dishes be pur- 
chased for next year to replace the old. Three 
hundred and fifty dinner plates, three hundred and 
fifty bowls and four hundred cups will be required. 
Two years ago side plates for pie, etc., were pur- 
chased for the camp, as prior to this time they were 
not used, The side plates are of the old variety, 
but are in A-l condition, having been in use only 
two Summers, 


The following was the promotion program for 196 
season. A new folder was developed for the camp this 
year which, after consulting with the Public Relations 
Firm, included Kanawana, Les Voyageurs, Training Camp, 
and Family Camp, as well as brief information on 
Otoreke and Branch Day Camps. Some 6,500 folders 
were distributed by mail, through YMCA Branches and 
other outlets. 


Office Secretary information notebooks were made up 
so that the office secretary in each Branch would 
have access to information for parent inquiries. 


Write-ups on Les Voyaguers and Kanawana, plus an 
advertisement were carried in the camping supplement 
of the Montreal Star in late May. 


Advertisements were placed in six local papers in- 
cluding: Westmount Examiner, Verdun Guardian, NDG 
Monitor, Montreal West News, Cote St. luc News, 

the Lachine Messenger, the Lakeshore News, and the 
Town of Mount Royal Post. Donald McKay worked with 
the camp for approximately six weeks, working through 
the Branches of the "Y". A good job was done, but 
the period of time was much too short, 


A television interview was arranged on the cry. 
"Tike Young" program with two members of the Voyageurs. 
They had approximately three minutes on the air, 


The Radio Station CJAD was most co-operative with 
the camps, They carried spot announcements to: the 
value of $1,360.00 for approximately a 23 month 
period. These were made as a community service by 
CJAD. 


The Director had two one half hour interviews with 
Doris Clark of CJAD on her afternoon show, These 

two programs were not Kanawana "advertisements" but, 
rather the Director discussing the values of a 
camping experience for youngsters, and looking at 
some of the more important questions that parents ask 
with regard to their children going to camp, 


Again, Kanawana crests were sent to each camper 
when he registered, along with a cartoon map of the 
camp property. 


A camp reunion was held in Janwry, but due to in- 
adequate time for preparation, a relatively small 
number of campers turned out for this occasion, The 
acquisition of a Business Manager to develop and 
handle an on-going promotion program which would 
include reunions should considerably spark and liven 
up this program, 


Again, the response from the branches was excellent, 
It is most encouraging to the Director to find such a 
ready response on the part of all the Branches across 
the city in promoting the camps. There was a 
noticeable increase in registration from every Branch 
across the city and it would seem from the advice we 
have had from public relations consultants, that 

this is still the area that should receive a lion's 
share of the promotion program, With the ready 
co-operation of the Branches it should not be difficult 
to realize, 


Parent Meetings 


Visitor Days 


Camo Committee Visits 


This year five Parent Meetings were held, one in 
each month from February to June. Parents of new 
campers to Kanawana were invited. The program 
included an opening statement by the Director, giving 
a brief historical sketch of the camp and the 
educational philosophy, This was followed by a 
presentation of pictures of the camp, including 
information about the sleening accommodations and the 
program areas. This was done with 35 mm slides, plus 
an excellent commentary by Ben Hannan, 


This was followed by a discussion by the Director on 
"preparing your son for camp." Coffee was served and 
then the parents broke into three or four groups each 
led by a camp staff member. During this time parents 
were encouraged to ask questions and discuss any of 
the evening's program, This program increases mutual 
understanding of goals of parents and the camp. 


Parents were also encouraged to visit the camp with 
their youngsters the first two week-ends of June when 
members of the advance guard escorted them about the 
camp. 


These Parents Meetings over the past two years have 
paid large dividends, The number of phone calls 
from anxious parents during the camp season has 
decreased considerably, and when difficulties and 
misunderstandings do arise communication has already 
been established between parents and the staff. 


There were three visiting days during the camp season, 
one following each two week change-over period, This 
year approximately one hundred and fifty visitors 
were received in camp on these days, The first day 
is always greeted with some qualms on the part of 
the staff, many of whom are not quite sure what to 
expect. However, each of the visiting days was a 
highly satisfactory experience, both for the campers, 
staff and parents. These visiting days provide the 
opportunity for consultation between parents and 
staff. 


Seven members of the Camp Committee visited the camp 
this Surmer, Roy Locke and Don Dewar made a two day 
visit to the camp during which time they had the 
opportunity to talk with staff members, and to 
observe first hand the on-going program of the camp. 
The remaining members spent briefer periods at the 
camp but they, too, had the opportunity to view the 
on-going operation, Visits of the Camp Committee are 
welcomed by the Director, and it is hoped that in the 
future every member of the committee will take the 
opportunity to visit during the Summer. 


Full Time For the past two years the business manager has 
Business Manager proved unsatisfactory, This has caused the director 
“ considerable frustration as he had to spend a large 

proportion of his time keeping the business end of 
the camp functioning smoothly and this necessitated 
him taking time away from the job he should be doing 
as director of the camp. It is difficult to get an 
adequate person for the short camp period. The 
business manager's job is a large and complex one and 
it takes a full season to learn the job and even if a 
man with adequate background were available it would 
still take a great deal of time on the part of the 
director to train this man, A new man each year means 
the job has to be repeated year in and year out. 


This year Kanawana did not reach its budget of camper 
weeks and will result in defecit operation this year. 
There is no question that Kanawana could be filled to 
budget and beyond providing there was ssaquate on-going 
promotion. Kanawana has about a 50% return of previous 
campers. The other 50% being people who move away, make 
other plans for the summer and also those youngsters who 
reach the age when they feel they no longer want to 

go to camp, this means that Kanawana needs to recruit 
approximately 250 new campers each season in order 

to attain budget, This can only be accomplished through 
an adequate systematic promotion.program. The director's 
off-camp season schedule does not allow him adequate time 
to do this promotion. In past years we hire part time 
people on a hit or miss basis to do this important job. 
The result is budgeted income for camper weeks is not 
realized, There is no reason at all that with adequate 
orcemotion this budget cannot be reached readily each 
year, but it requires an on going year round promotion 
program which the director has not got the time to do, 


It is recommended that consideration be given to hiring 
permanent staff on a part time or full time basis to handle 
promotion ard business administration of three operations ~ 
Kamp Kanawana, Family Camp and Les Voyageurs. 


It is recommended that to meet the increased costs of an 
additional staff member and to meet other costs recommended 
in this report that the fees for Kanawana be established 
for the 1965 at $5.00 per week. On the present budget 

of 1530 weeks, this would mean an increase of $,600 per 
annum. 


Finances In the light of the discussion around finances of the camp 
held earlier this year with Mr. Al Dickinson, Financial 
Secretary of the Montreal YMCA, it is recommended that the 
camp committee give consideration to the study of the finances 
of the camp with a view to meeting with the Metropolitan 
Property & Finance Committee, recommending necessary action 
in order that the camps may embark upon a realistic policy 
for financing the operations, 


* Full Time For the past two years the business manager has 

Business Manager proved unsatisfactory. This has caused the director 
considerable frustration as he had to spend a large 
proportion of his time keeping the business end of 
the camp functioning smoothly and this necessitated 
him taking time away from the job he should be doing 
as director of the camp. It is difficult to get an 
adequate person for the short camp period. The 
business manager's job is a large and complex one and 
it takes a full season to learn the job and evenif a 
man with adequate background were available it would 
still take a great deal of time on the part of the 
director to train this man, A new man each year means 
the jco has to be repeated year in and year out. 


This year Kanawana did not reach its budget of camper 
weeks and will result in defecit operation this year. 
There is no question that Kanawana could be filled to 
budget and beyond providing there was #saquate on-going 
promotion. Kanawana has about a 50% return of previous 
campers. The other 50% being people who move away, make 
other plans for the summer and also those youngsters who 
reach the age when they feel they no longer want to 
go to camp, this means that Kanawana needs to recruit 
appreximately 250 new campers each season in order 
to attain budget. This can only be accomplished through 
an adequate systematic promotion.program. The director's 
ff-camp season schedule does not allow him adequate time 
to do this promotion. In past years we hire part time 
people on a hit or miss basis to do this important job. 
The result is budgeted income for camper weeks is not 
realized, There is no reason at all that with adequate 
promotion this budget cannot be reached readily each 
year, but it requires an on going year round promotion 
program which the director has not got the time to do, 


It is recommended that consideration be given to hiring 
permanent staff on a part time or full time basis to handle 
promotion and business administration of three operations ~- 
Kamp Kanawana, Family Camp and Les Voyageurs. 


It is recommended that to meet the increased costs of an 
additional staff member and to meet other costs recommended 
in this report that the fees for Kanawana be established 
for the 1965 at $5.00 per week.. On the present budget 

of 1530 weeks, this would mean an increase of $,600 per 
annum. 


Finances In the light of the discussion around finances of the camp 
held earlier this year with Mr. Al Dickinson, Financial 
Secretary of the Montreal YMCA, it is recommended that the 
camp committee give consideration to the study of the finances 
of the camp with a view to meeting with the Metropolitan 
Property & Finance Committee, recommending necessary action 
in order that the camps may embark upon a realistic policy 
for financing the operations. . 


Conclusion 


This is the part of the report that I wish to 
express myself in the first person. 


We have had a wonderful season at Kanawana, 

though many parts of this report might indicate 

that all was not well at camp this sumer, but let 

me hasten to correct this impression. In this 

report I felt it was necessary to share with the 
committee some of the major concerns as I saw them, 

but let this not detract from the fact that it was 

as far as I am concerned, the best season that I have 
spent as director of Kanawana., The high level of 
maturity of the staff contributed much to the many 
youngsters who were with us this summer. The Council 
( section directors, the assistant director and the 
director) met regularly to train, constantly assess our 
progress and to plan the future. The council was a 
group of mature men, earnestly and sincerely concerned 
for our campers and the goals of the camp. We had fun 
at Kanawana this year both campers and staff, not-with- 
standing the relatively poor weather in the month of August. 
The staff worked hard to assure that wherever required each 
youngster in the camp received individual attention, 
The emphasis was definitely on fun and growth at 
Kanawana in '6h, 


I would like to express my personal thanks in this 

report to each member of the Kanawana staff of '6). 
IT have often said that the paradox of Kanawana is that 

the staff get more out of the experience than do the 
campers. And the truth of this statement may be found 

in the fact that each member of the staff in doing his 

job, must give of himself and those who give of themselves 

get much in return. 


I would like to express my deep appreciation to the Boys! 
Camping Committee of the Montreal YMCA for their many 
hundreds of hours of hard work throughout the year, 
plus their unfailing supnort to myself and staff. Each 
year we see many things that we could have done better 
and possibly if we have a weakness in our camping 
group, it is that we are often harshly self-critical 
and do not take time enough to sit back and look at the 
many good and fine things that we accomplish year after 
year. I‘feel sure that no camping program could have 
survived for the 71 years that Kanawana has, if it were 
not for the fact that somany fine things have hapnened 
to so many people year in year out. 


Respectfully submitted, 


A, Ross Seaman, 
Director. 


Appreciation The outstanding success year after year at Kanawana 
depends on many, many people, beyond the committee 
and staff of the camp, Appreciation is expressed 
to a following for their contribution to Kanawana 
196k: 


The campers of 196 and their fine parents. 
The Y's Men's Club of the Notre Dame de Grace YMCA. 


The Board of Management of the Westmount YMCA who, 
each year, allow the camp to use their Branch as a 
terminus for campers. 


The many neighbours living around the camp who so 
willingly allow us to use their properties and 
assist us in many ways, 


Mr. Romeo lafleur who for so many years has faith- 
fully and without mishap carried our campers to and 
from St. Sauveur and camp and, this year, provided 
transportation to our campers from Montreal and 
camp return, 


Mr. Colin McKay, the Director of Camp Otoreke. 


Mr. Rix Rogers, Program Coordinator of the Montreal 
YMCA. 


Dr. Antonio Dezee of St. Sauveur for his assistance 
and cooperation in matters regarding the health of 
our campers. 


The members of the branch staffs for their continued 
encouragement and support. 


Dr. Hedley Dimock for his continued cooperation in 
staff training and development and personal assistance 
to the Director. 


Miss Margaret Casserly of the Metropolitan Program 
Office Staff for her extra-ordinary assistance this 
year in a time of need. 


Mr. Denis Clark and Mrs. Eleanor Taylor of the 
Metropolitan Accounts Office. 


Dr. J. Preston Robb, camp medical consultant and | 
member of the Advisory Committee, for his continued 
support. 


The staff of the Montreal YMCA for their continued 
encouragement and support, 


S06 ¢*l2 SIOqUOW 7, WePUS.ZEg 
Tet] =k °9t stedueo Iswu0y azequadiag 


le 71°¢€ (syeem) Ae4s Jo yysueT esesoay 


€2S elt siedueg jo szsequny 
71Z9T TOT STeyoL 
€02 glt_ 43g 
02 TO? UudL 
602 602 449 
Tl2 goz 44s 
gt2 TL? yy 
gt2 902 pag 
c8t Q6T pug 


6LT 002 499M 4ST 
yoom yoeg siadweg fo °oN 


71291 NTO STeqOL 

18 97 grazuey 
ELE gle stapuT syed 
ole SLE sftog ep sumaumog 
Lov Lot ususpooM 
O6€ got I9oUu0Tg 
9a6t asét suo tyzoeg Aq sysoy tedwep 


t * % 
NINE YEAR ' SUMMARY , : 


A, > of Campers 1995 1956-1957 19581952 - = 2960198. 962— 963. EN 

8 65 73 47 18 hg Sh 35 76 70 70 

9 88 87 68 60 69 81 69 92 83 

10 80 91 102 87 102 76 99 107 88 87 

ye "3 92 96 115 103 97 8 89 76 90 

12 TT 72 88 8h, 102 99 77 81 91 80 

13 55 58 7h 80 58 79 68 51 76 75 

1h 26 35 50 Ls 31 3 5 38 ho 21 

15 7 11 27 39 11 15 23 1h 21 17 

16 2 h 6 10 1 1 3 2 12 10 
Length of Stay in Camp 

1 week 8 0 0 ) 2 ) 0 3 i 2 

2 weeks 211 32h 375 367 338 6.2 369 65.6 316 62.8 35 62.6 360 36h 

3 weeks 77 3 0) 3 mM 3 1 1 2 7 

l, weeks 97 137 122 109 137 129 143 163 143 131 

5 weeks and more 80 57 ¢) ) @) 2 0 ) 1 12 

6 weeks and more 0) ) 19 23 19 16 21 19 21 - 

8 weeks and more ) 9) 43 36 27 26 22 20 29 20 
Religious Proportions by Weeks 
srotestant estan 975 113); 1178 1203 115h 1079 963 1013 963 96h 

Roman Catholics 216 170 222 18) 229 258 266 311 318 312 

Jewish 423 320 296 236 18); 2h8 280 338 360 17h 

Buddhist 8 * h 
Age of Counsellors 
ao: T 2h 21 28 29-19-17 yrs. lb-l7yrs. 5-l7yrs 5-17 yrs. 2-17 yes. 2-17 

10. 21 6 7 5 8 9-18yrs 7-18yrs, 12-18yrs]1h-18 " 9-18 11-18 

22- 27 2 3 5 h 5-19 " 4-19" 6-19" 719" —gng ot t-19 

28- 0 | 0 O 3-22-27" 2-20" 3-20" 2-20yrs 5-20 " 5-20 

2-21 yrs 3-21 yrs 2-21" 2-21  h-21 
2-22yrs 1-22 " 3-22 " 2-22 
41.04% 2-23 +" 1-23 
1-26 " 1-2) 
Sollege Men Counsellors 0 @) @) 0 3) 11-3729% 10-33.5% 10-31:8% 20-60,6% 

Average Counsellor Age fe) fe) ) fe) 18,11 18.19 19-lyrs, 18.6 19.6 yrs. 19h 

Namoer of Program Staff EL 10. aE LT 17 18 17 16 16 53 
tic Gapers to Staff (to 1) 9.1(to 1) 5 bed 39 3h L.2 \ L.5 Leb 3<h7 

gamer of Administrative — nad 16 17 16 17 16 aT 16 17 17 19 


Junior _Counsellors-in a ? ? 7 8 
= 10 


i? 


