a | a: 
CHESTNUT. 
the 
fa+h finder 


Summer 
Summa ry 


TENTS, FRAILS, TREES AND TRACKS, 
PATHS, PADOLES, PETS AND. PACKS, 

LERE THE 30YS 1TH THE STRONGEST RACKS 
SE'RE THE 30S SHO S"ING THE AXE. 

HERE WE ARE) THERE WS ARE, 

TRIPPING MEN FROK NZAR AND FAR 

SYISH, SASH, 'S PLISH, SPLASH 

yE'RE AT KANP'TC HAVE A SASH, 


YEA, PATHFINDERS, 


This yell, which was original to the Pathfinders 
in 1965, required maximum particip2tion and group effort in 
order for it to sound really*good in the dining hall. This ig 
typical of ali that the Pathfinders do throughout the year. 
Reing a tripping section, the motto “one for all and all for one”, 
must be practised at all, times in order for a trip to be successful 
and haopy. e 


_ The yell itself is dependent upon the items of nature 
as ere the PethFfinders, If ts an expr ssion of comradship 
and pride = oride in the individual, the tent, the section, the 
Kamp, lt is a pride that many -ore people in the world should 
possess. 50, as you.continue on your peth of tife, ! can only 
shout "Pathfinders, ARE YOU READY - = =~", | hope the reply is 
always "WE ARE ~ ak 


4 


The Chief -< 


Ric Petten - 


Mike *“alker « 


Jim Thyer - 


Bill Kennedy « 


ir v —_o “on fF tee 


=, 


- KAMP KANAANA 


The interviewer questioned the Chief as to whether he 
had been ef camo @s @ camper. His response was thet 

he had beenh ere as a C de B and he had really enjoyed 
oe He said that he realty enjoys his job. Changes 

he would like to see include @ good staff lounge and 

a co-educational canp. “hen asked to qo deeper into the 
latter change, he said boys and giris should be together 
and if wou!s be good for the moraie. Wr. Seaman works 

at YNCA in Montreal, is married (his wife is camp director 
at Jel.) and has three children (two girls and one boy). 
He tikes to see a full camp (226 campers and 69 staff). 


Ric is 22 ycars of eae anc has seven years on camo staff. 
His jobs have included being a counsellor for three years 
and SPC for two years and a section director for one. He 
@élso wes admiral! for one year. Xic doubts he will be back 
next year because of the forth coming happy event in his 
life. The reason he likes camp is because he has an ; 
opportunity to work with the campers and it is invaluacle 
experience for his future employment with the YCA, 


Mike states his age as 45, tut one has to doubt that this 
is true. This is #ike's first year at camo = he is an 
English teacher in the winter. Mike thinks the food at 
camp is delicious. He expresses the desire to be Assistant 
Chey in the future and he sees vast imorovements in Kamp 
Kanawana in thenext five years. 


Jim is known as the man in the Red Feather. He likes KK 
because of his vast experience here and he tikes to instruct 
campers On camping. During the winter Jim is a school 
teacher in Mount Bruno. Jim does not like the city in 
summer and he likes kids very much. Jim is of French- 
Scottish-English descent. You figure it out. 


Billy is the tent no. | counsellor in the Pathfinder 
Section. He is a 19 year old student at SGYU. 3i1i's 
ambition is to either become a radio broadcaster or to 
work for the YaHCA. He heard of KK from his brother who 
was here four years ego and Billi expresses a desire fo 
return. 8:11! would tike to see KK coeducationa! for an 
experimental year. 


= 


Steve Mills - 


Bill McDonald - 


Mike Osadchuk «= 


Hat. Potter «= 


Joe Page « 


Stan “asilewski - 


Julian Tasse = 


Dugie Livingston- 


“on Ness « 


Ed McNider - 


eee nema entree wens Nees 


Doc Syvaine « 


ent mt en ete tee tan nca 


Steve is !* and this is his second year ét KK. His first 
appearance was as @ cémper ten years ago. Steve does 

not want to return next year, but if he Wid, he would 

like to be a Section Director. He goes to itcGill University 
where he is studying dentistry. Steve would like to see 
this camp coeducational, 


Gili has been at KK for two years. He dislikes Tegroups 
end coeducational! campos, The highlights of fhe s ummer 
have been his numerous canoe trips. 


Mike is in his second year at KK. He likes it very much, 
During the winter he is a student at McGill University . 
Main project for the year ~ to get that bridge built. 


Hal is in his second year at KK, A student at Stanstead. 
He likes his job at KK, He would tike to return in the role 


in the middle of the summer a sad thing happened to the 
Pathfinder section, Smiling Joe was transferred toe higher 
position, Aithough all were happy to see the promotion, 

it left a cavity in the section which never property 

was filled. Joe is presently the CIT director. He is in 
his final year at Univerity of Ottawa studying physical 
education and desires to work with children, Joe says that 
it doesn't matter to him if the camp is French or English. 


Stan is the Assistant Camp Director. In the winter Stan 
is @ commercial course teacher. He s@ys his reason for 
coming to camo is that he likes to and this is his sixth 
year ere. 


Julian is 33 years of age. He has been working at camp 

for seven years. He would tike to see KK as a coeducational 
camp. His favourite expression is Sacre 3leu.in the winter, 
he paints boats, he shovels snow end makes and repairs 
screens. These are only a few of his many jobs. 


Dugie is our Scottish arts and crafts Director. He does 
this sort of work all year round et school, He heard 

of the camp from Stan. Dugie would tike to see more work 
for everyone else and tess for himself. He is not certain 
if he wilt return, but would ftike to return. 


Ron is in his second year at camo and is 26 years old. 
He previously worked at Powters end Day camps. Ron teaches 
in the winter and would like to return in his oresant job. 


Ed is the Hike and Trip Director, He has worked at KK for 
five years. Sefore working here he was a counsellor at 
Royal Ambassador 8o0y's Camo for two years as counsellor, 
At KK he has also been @ counselior and S°C. 


is 35 years old. He hes @ private practice on the Lakeshore. 
He same to KK at the request of Chief. He enjoys working 
here very much because he likes finks. He doesn't want to 
see KK become coeducational because he thinks it is a good 
idea for boys to be together. . 


ae es «6S Sn ae aa eee a = v po pf aT ye ee he et ee re 
a! oes a ee 7, ti —. 
Fy | : 7 a = 


eS is 21 years of age and is the Tripper. He is a student 
at fount Altison in New Grunswick and desires to pea 
math teacher. He has sorked et camp for % years. He 
heard of KK from poster in university. He is undecided 


about returning next year. 
Arnie Achtman - is !7 years otd end pians to go to Liyota next yeer study - 


ing something in the arts. This is his tenth year at KK 
and doesn't know if he will return. He comes here for 
"the money". He would like KK to be coeducationa!. 


_ Gavin Turley - is eéyyears oid. Gavin has deen here one year and goes to 
SG%U., He séys the food varies from bed to worse. He is 
a uncertain of returning next year and sees distinct imorovee 


ments in the next five years, He would like to see a 
coeducational camp. 


Mac @ Has spent i7- years at Kamp and obviously does the best 

=a with what he has. The meals this year have been terrific 
and so - = orchids are extended to the Chef, 

Jorge Jemaltka - is Our nature iore expert. He has been at KK for six years 

alr : and intends fo return. Jorge would like to see the nature 

lore orogram more child centered and would fike KK to bce 
coeducational. 

2erbara Jack - the nurse, is 2t years of age and is a nurse by occupation. 

= ; She came fo camp on acvice of Dave Hardcastle. This is 
rs her first camp job and she wishes to return next year - she 


likes oufdoor atmosphere. She doesn't want KK te become 
coeduational because she thinks we are the arong age 
to associate with girls. 


r ee ee Ne ee zs oes ee eer 
#7 


a 
are ean eh Vs 


bag oe 
l 


FOR ARA®& GEAR ANDO LOTS OF CHEER 
see Ric Patten 
FOR THE EXTRA WHAM IN PROGRAM 
see Nalker 
WANT TO GO CANOE TRIP © » uh = = TRIPPING? 
FOR HAVING A BASH IN CANOEING, 


see Jim Thyer 


HAVE SCALPEL 
WILL TRAVEL 


Doc- Swaine 


5 es ee i ee 
"WHO POUR“ED THE SHELLAC IN KY COFFEE" Lion rampant 


(Dugie) 


| suggest we have @ su way service to J.L. 


Steve Mills 


WANTED: COUNSELLOR SNACK CLIANUP COMMITTEE 
See Stan 
FOR ANYTHING YOU SANT DONE = « - FORGET IT 
Gavin 
“i i \ eM | | od 


The profits obtained from this page of advertisements were donated 
to Wortd Service. 


THE CAMPER TALKS — 
INTERNATIONALITY AT CAMP = by Billy fisnzel 

In most tents, there are at least three fanguages. | t hink 
this is good because it heips campers to get alongwith people from 
different countries. | am sure that peopte from foreign countries 
are as good, if not, better in certain sports. Canadians tease 
people from different countries = they forget that these people 
are as good as they are. 


| find that an international camp is fun and adventurous 
and that is my main reason for coming to Kamp Kanawana each summer. 


GENERAL CORMENTS BY CAMPIRS 


Rob Bazzo - food is better than last year. *ouid like to return. 
This is Sth year at KK, Likes the idea of coed camp. 


Doug Ray = tunch is best meal. Likes campsvery much. This is his 
3rd year. He sould like coed camp. 


ark Sixth year and he stil likes if. Says it becomes boring 
Asselman = at times - if you dontt like the food you're spoiled. 


Normen Ashe-This is first year and he has no comptaints. 


Job Ray = doesn't want to see the camp coeducational (he doesn't} 
know why) and he doesn't like the food. 


Pierre Likes things they way they are “Tout est bien" 
Sernier « 


Juan Fuentes Likes things the way they are. 


Andy Xould tike to see more definite orogram (like to see 
Kamoroni ~ a comoulsory set out program with no discussion on it). 


Billy Menzel-likes things they way they are. 


NOTE: To campers ~ Ati addresses of camprrs are availabie through 
the downtown YMCA Kamp office shoutd you wish to contect | 
afellow camper during the year. 


A RED FEATHER REVUE 


As | look back on this summer at Kamp |! find that many 
excitin things have taken place, particularly im the Pathfinder 
Section. There have been canoe trips to Lake Toureau, to the 
Kiamika and Lievre Rivers, as well as to Oforeke. Hikes have 


gone to Lec St. Denis to visit the Air Force Sase, to Kerr's 
farm and back through Morin Heights a trip which has several! 
beautiful views down Laurentian vatileys. 


' 'deas for programmes in Kamp have produced varied 
and useful activities as well. Canoeing has been popular in 
our Section; campcraft and nature tore have been done with such 
things as Indian cucumbers being eaten and birch fea being brewed. 
A oridge was begun , one tent bui!t a fence around its area 
another made a new firebow!. Games of Kili the Counselior, 
Capture the Flag, Ping Pong have been popular at various times. 
A Kangaroo Court was hetd and members of the Staff and Campers were 
sentenced to odd tasks. Section regattas were held, one in 
competition with the C de 2 section, one with a Scout troop 
from Tamaracouta which probably helped fhe idea of a orogram 
between our Kamp and Tamaracouta to commemorate the linking 


of the two. Section and AlteKamp fires have added variety to the 


Evening programmes. 


Last, but not teast, the idea of having a Section 
paper was tried out, and a good. idea it was too, especially as 
a summary for the summer's activities. 


| think we of the ?athfinder section have indeed had a 
summer fo be proud of, and from me fo the section = “Yell dons! 


Ou 0 (> SS 645 


ee ee ae 


eae enn eee err at, 


ae Sa ee 


