ANNUAL REPORT 


MAE) 


SNIWEaMO 


1965 


MONTREAL 
YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION 


Introduction 


The Seventy-Second Annual Report of 


Kamp Kanawana of the Y.M.C.A. of Montreal 


Kanawana is People, 


George is ten years old, when he was about six years of 
age his father was in a serious motor accident and was 
over a year and a half recovering. The impact of George's 
father being away for so long a year ago showed through in 
George's behaviour. A very intelligent child he failed 
his year at school, was aggresive, unhappy and "difficult 
to manage", His parents took him for psychiatric help and 
it was found that one of his problems was that he was 
afraid to succeed. What George needed more than anything 
was to be in an environment away from the every day 
pressures where he would be accepted regardless of the 
"sometimes anti-social behaviour" and where he would have 
the opportunity to work on some skills to the point where 
he would have a reasonable degree of success. George's 
Counsellor is one of those fellows who, a little bit of 
so-called unusual behaviour didn't bother him very much, 
is a chap who has unlimited patience, and who had some 
understanding of George's problem, The boy wanted to 
swim but was afraid. The Junior Waterfront Director 
moved in to work with the Counsellor and before long 
George was able to duck his head without feeling too 
fearful and before the end of his stay he had mastered 
the first stage of the camp swimming program. Being 

able to swim fifty feet may not sound like much of an 
accomplishment but to a small boy with some emotional 
problems it was an exciting accomplishment. His parents 
informed the camp that George has seemed much happier 
since camp and he is still proudly wearing his "red disc" 
indicating that he has passed the first stage in the 
swimming program, it is now eight weeks since he has left 
the camp. 


2. 


Gordon is a foster child whose foster parents are a warm 
and loving couple and have taken this boy into their 
hearts as well as their home, Kanawana has had quite a 
number of foster boys at Camp but what makes Gordon so 
unique is that he is almost totally blind. He has some 
sight vision in one eye and with extraordinary thick 
lenses he can read a little. Gordon desperately needs 
to be like other boys and doesn't want his blindness to 
hamper him. At the closing camp fire he was presented 
with a "Golden Arrow" which is an award that has been 
instituted at camp this summer and presented at the 
discretion of the staff to any boy in camp who shows 
extraordinary personal achievment during his stay, This 
is not a "popularity poll" but an award that is given on 
recommendation only. 


Gordon learned to go off the high dive at camp, a real 
achievment when you can't see where the water is. He had 
also earned his "C" canoeist and nobody made the test any 
easier for Gordon. He had to measure up to the standard 
of fully sighted boys. Can you imagine how Gordon felt 
when he left camp on the last day of the season. 


These are but two of the many stories that could be 
related about the Seventy-Second Season at Kanawana. 


This season at Kanawana was markedly different from any 
in the writer's experience. There was a new feeling of 
excitement at Kanawana this summer - the campers felt it, 
the staff felt it. For many years Kanawana has been 
concerned that the campers had fun, ami that campers and 
staff alike had the opportunity to grow and develop. To 
help attain these goals the best methods of doing so have 
been searched out. 


This summer an innovation in staff training was made with 
the introduction of the laboratory training method. In 
order to bring in this method the training program was 
lengthened from one to two weeks prior to the opening of 
camp. Senior personnel from the Montreal YMCA staff 
participated as trainers in this program and six days 
were devoted to the laboratory training. 


3. 


The impact of this training on the camp was startling! 
The understanding and insights gained by the staff 
through the specialized training program helped them 

to give the kind of help and leadership to campers 

that was so important to George and Gordon, Because 

of self-insight and understanding the staff were able 

to function more competently together and this produced 
a satisfying working experience which reflected again 

in the way that staff were able to work with the campers. 


Over the past years the Director has constantly worked 
toward a maximum of staff participation in the develop- 
ment of program and in carrying out the administrative 
practices of the camp. He has also worked to develop 
a permissive climate in which staff could be freed to 
develop their own potential and creativeness, This 
emphasis combined with the human relations-sensitivity 
training of this season culminated in an exciting and 
satisfactory experience for both staff and campers. 


This major advance in staff training has made a consider- 
able impact on the Director of Kanawana which can possibly 
best be described by relating an incident of a young 
camper getting lost for a brief period of time this 
season, 


It is the practice of the camp when a camper does become 
lost, to constantly toll the camp bell to serve as a 
directional signal both for the lost camper and the 

search party. Happily this child was never more than 
fifteen or twenty feet from his cabin but he had concealed 
himself in such a way that the search party did not find 
him for sometime. To make the job of tolling the bell 
easier the staff menber responsible, instead of usi ng 

the clapper of the bell, used a hatchet with which he 
repeatedly struck the bell. For many people who read 
this, they will no doubt feel a touch of nostalgia when 
they hear that the bell was cracked but to the writer 

it seemed almost prophetic. This bell which has signalled 
camp time for many, many years was damaged in the perform- 
ance of its duty, but with the growing feeling throughout 
the camp on the part of both staff and campers, the era 
that was signalled for so long by this old bell may well 
have drawn to a close, this incident in turn signals the 
beginning of a whole new era of camping both in concept 
and in program, 


he 


Last Spring Mr. Jack Breckenridge agreed to chair the 
Camp Committee's sub-committee on Planning and Deve Lop- 
ment, as requested by the Metropolitan Planning and 
Development Committee, The initial purposes of this 
Committee is to probe in depth the goals and purposes 
of Kanawana with a view to re-stating and/or re-defining 
these goals and purposes of Kanawana so that they may 
prove even more meaningful to the thousands of boys who 
will be coming in the future, 


There may well be changes but it needs to be recognized 
that the children of today and tomorrow cannot possibly 
have the same concept of camping as those who have camped 
in the past. Many of the parents of our campers have no 
concept of camping as it was twenty years ago. The idea 
of "roughing it" has long since passed and unacceptable 
to parents and campers, The tremendous commercial 
emphasis on family camping is educating people to a whole 
new concept of camping, The portable gas refrigerators, 
heaters, and a complete line of camping equipment have 
been designed with one idea in mind - comfort for the 
user, This added to the increased comforts of homes 
today, and the advanced technical work being done to 
provide added comforts for living, legislate against the 
concept of camping that has been held for so many years. 


It will be necessary to re-examine the plant and the 
equipment of the Kanawana of today in light of our 
changing society, its economics, its needs, and desires. 
The privy toilets which were used without thought in the 
past are completely unacceptable to the children of today 
hence Kanawana has modernized these facilities. The over- 
night shelter of yesterday which could be made swiftly 
and simply out of the equipment that nature had supplied 
is available only on the Kanawana property because where 
our campers hike today is private property and the owners 
do not take kindly to having their trees cut to make 
shelters. 


Staff Training 


5. 


So Kanawana now has to look to providing the type of equipment 
which will give adequate shelters for yougsters on overnight 
hikes to protect them against the elements. 


The concept of being close to nature and learning of nature 
should in no way be diminished but rather the methods we use 
need to be examined. Boys still love the thrill of canoe trips, 
the opportunity of shooting the rapids, and of being far away 
from civilization on the edge of a crystal pure lake, sitting 
around the camp fire. The bull sessions with their buddies on 
the goings on of the day, or looking into the future as to the 
career they would like to follow, solving the religious problems 
of their day, discussing politics and the space age are meaning- 
ful experiences. 


Two recognized facts are, the children coming to Kanawana today 
are increasingly sophisticated and the youngsters of today are 
maturing at a much earlier age than they did even ten years ago. 
The mass communication media are adding to this sophistication, 
The tremendous technological strides being made in our society 
are adding their part in the speed up of this growth and develop- 
ment. The question Kanawana needs to face is - are the needs of 
campers of today being met? 


The part of the report that follows cannot begin to catch the 
feeling of excitement, fun and satisfaction that permeated 
Kanawana this summer. One needs to actually experience the 
thrill of being part of this season's experience to really feel 
what has happened. At best that which follows is an effort to 
report on some aspects of Kanawana 165, 


Staff training commenced on June 13th this year. A week earlier 
than previous years but it had been decided to hold a two week 
pre-camp training period. 


The program started with a two day general camp orientation. 

This was followed with a five and a half day intensive laboratory 
T-Group training program with four senior members of the Montreal 
YMCA staff serving as trainers - they were Ted Lowe, Public 
Relations Secretary for the Montreal YMCA, Bruce McFarlane, 
Executive Director of the Verdun-LaSalle Branch, Ray Rouse, 
Executive Secretary of the Northmount Branch and Rix Rogers the 
Co-Ordinator of Staff Development. 


6. 


The staff in their evaluation of the pregram felt it had 
been one of the most satisfying and best learning 
experiences that the staff as a group had had at Kanawana. 
Each member of the staff was presented with the opportunity 
for growth and change and he had the option of accepting 
or rejecting these opportunities. Each member of the 
staff had the opportunity to experience being a member 

of a real live group with the opportunity to sit back 

and examine what was happening within the group setting. 
This gave the individual staff member a greater insight 
into camper groups that he was to work with throughout 
the summer and hence made him a much more effective 

staff member as he worked with the campers. 


The second week of the training program included camping 
skills training and further orientation to the camp and 
the general organization, 


Promotion This year the Camp Committee under the leadership of 
Morey Cross developed a carefully thought out promotion 
program, Gavin Turley was hired on a part-time basis 
to carry out the promotion program also to serve as 
Business Manager for the camp. He carried out his 
responsibilities in a most effective and efficient 
manner. 


Unfortunately, notwithstanding this excellent promotional 
program the registration at the camp was at the lowest 

it has been in many years with a total of some 1200 weeks 
realized on a budget of 1500 weeks, There are many 
factors that contribute to this lowered attendance this 
year and the following are suggested: 


(a) The very poor weather conditions that have existed 
over the last three summers particularly during 
the month of August no doubt were the biggest 
contributing factor. This fall-off in attendance 
was severely felt by many camps in the area. 


(b) The increase in fees may have had some effect on 
attendance. 


(c) The increase in family camping no doubt added its 
toll to fewer youngsters coming to camp. 


Staff 


Te 


(ad) Summer school for youngsters who do not do particularly 
well in. their school year definitely contributed to this 
fall-off this year as a fair number of applications were 
cancelled out due to the fact that some boys had to go 
to summer school, 


(e) Another contributing factor is the fact that each year 
the length of the average stay of the camper at Kanawana 
gets shorter as the statistical report will indicate. 


(f) It is also suggested that Kamp Kanawana is not seen as a 
status camp and with the fee being charged today - by 
paying a very little more the youngster can be sent to one 
of the status private camps. 


This problem of filling the camp is indeed a serious one but 

the program initiated this past winter and spring was developed 
as a long range program and has moved into gear immediately upon 
the closing of camp, Gavin Turley the Business Manager will 
continue to give leadership to this promotion program through 

the fall and winter. This problem will require special consider- 
ation by the Camp Committee early this fall. So goaiwas the 
experience of the campers this year it is suggested that this 
will have a very positive effect on registration for the coming 
166 Season. 


The 1965 Season saw one of the finest staffs the Director has 
had the privilege of working with. The staff group was enhanced 
by the fact that there were seven YMCA Fellowship Students on 
the staff most of whom carried senior staff responsibilities. 
These men were able to make a unique contribution to the camp 
because of both their skills and their knowledge of the YMCA. 


The Director is largely concerned with the hiring, training, 

and supervision of staff and gives considerable proportion 

of his time to this particular responsibility. A large percent- 
age of the staff were university students and the average age 
of the counselling staff was maintained. 


8. 


Increasingly Kanawana is atracting young men who are 
interested in the kind of experience they can receive 

as a staff member at Kanawana, This is particularly 

so for those who are moving toward the service profess- 
ions. The opportunity to work in a permissive situation 
where they have the opportunity to use their own creative- 
ness and initiative under competent supervision is an 
invaluable experience to these men, 


Program It will be recalled that an increased allotment was 
made for the program budget this year with a view to 
further improving the program materials and supplies. 

It did make a considerable improvement over the previous 
year, but further effort is still required to constantly 
upgrade the program opportunities in the camp. The 
reports of various program personnel in the camp are 
available and contain a considerable amount of useful 
information, suggestions and recommendations. Some of 
the recommendations will be caught up in this report; 
the other reports should be reviewed by the Committee 
for consideration and action, The overall program of 
the camp will be reviewed this winter by a staff 
committee at their request with a view to making 
further recommendations to the Camp Committee. This 
move is essential to be sure that the program and the 
materials and equipment are adequate to help the staff 
in their responsibilities in working with the campers. 


Canoe tripping was as popular as ever at Kanawana, with 
as many as three and four trips out of camp at one time, 
Otoreke was used on several occasions by the Coureur de 
Bois campers for canoe trips of short duration. 


Hiking is a popular part of program - every camper who 
came to Kanawana this summer was out on at least one 
overnight hike and often more. 


One of the interesting highlights of the summer was a 
joint program with the Boy Scout Camp Tamaracouta. It 
will be recalled that Kanawana and Tamaracouta jointly 
purchased a property which joins the two camps. A 
program was held during the 7th week of camp, at which 
the new "Kanawana - Tamaracouta Trail" was officially 
opened by the "Factor" of Tamaracouta and the "Chief" 
of Kanawana with campers and staff from both camps in 
attendance. There followed an exciting day's program 

in which both camps met at the end of Lake Wilson, 
pitched camp and for a day joined in a program to- 
gether. It is recommended by both camps that this 
joint program become an annual feature in the future 
as it proved to be a great success. 


Administration 


Plant 


9. 


The overall administration of the camp was considerably 
more efficient this year due in no small measure to the 
fact that a decision was made to hire a permanent part- 
time Business Manager who would be prepared to stay on 
staff for a minimum of two years, working part-time 
through the winter and full-time during the summer, 
Gavin Turley, a Fellowship Student, was recruited for 
this position and he has done a most commendable job, 
He has a high degree of interest and loyalty in this 
particular responsibility and is making a fine contribut- 
ion to Kanawana, 


This year the camp plant has reached a peak in its 
overall condition. The painting program was a heavy 
one this year but the general repairs required around 
the camp were much less than in previous years and 
allowed for a good deal of brushing which considerably 
enhanced the appearance of the sito. 


Five new tents were purchased this year which means 
that all canvas is presently in A-1l shape short of the 
minor repairs that are required annually on some tents, 
As new tents were purchased the platform size was 
increased from 12 x 1 to 1) x 16 and larger tents 
purchased to accommodate them. This proved most help- 
ful in the accommodations in the Coureur de Bois and 
Pathfinder Sections, 


22,000 board feet of lumber was cut at camp last winter, 
as well as approximately 100 cords of firewood which 
would tell any Camp Committee member that Julien Tasse 
was hard at work last winter, Reference is also made 
to the excellent condition of the plant which drew 

many favourable comments from parents, staff and lay- 
men during the summer. 


All of this has been due to the continuing excellent 
job that Julien does for Kanawana. He was assisted 
by Mrs. Tasse who does the camp laundry during the 
summer, as well as taking care of the feeding of the 
advance party for the period of six weeks before camp 
opens. 


Food Services 


Staff Change 


10. 


A Camp Plant Manual is now being developed which will 
give actual photographs, all the dimensions of the 
buildings and their immovable contents e.g. electric 
light outlets, running water, sinks, etc, Repairs and 
maintenance charts of each individual building will be 
included. It will be the responsibility of the Business 
Manager to keep this workbook up to date. This manual 
of operations will also be most helpful to the Camp 
Committee as they discuss the various aspects of plant 
maintenance and repairs. 


This year for the first time in many years, there were 
two highly skilled chefs working together in the camp 
kitchen. A year ago the Director expressed a concern 
over the fact that the assistant to the chef was 
inevitably an unskilled person due to the low rate of 
pay. The Camp Committee last year authorized an 
increased amount so that a competent assistant could 
be hired, This, plus careful supervision, resulted 
in a vastly improved food situation in the camp to the 
point where both campers and staff were pleased and 
satisfied with the food. 


The Camp Committee authorized the purchase of new 
dishes to replace the very old and discolored camp 
dishes. New plastic dishes, manufactured by the 
Cyanamid Company of Canada, were purchased. These 
are a white dish with a colorful border design in 
blue. These added much to the attractiveness of the 
dining hall tables and, here again, satisfaction was 
expressed by both the campers and staff. 


Mrs. Olga Hall joined the camp staff as the Office 
Secretary in the spring, taking over from Mrs, Duffy 
who left to have a family. Mrs. Hall has moved in 
very quickly in an efficient manner and has made an 
excellent contribution to our operation. She deals 
politely and effectively with the parents and no 
amount of work "is too much", For example, during 
the mail strike we had youngsters write letters and 
these were brought by hand to the camp office with 

the understanding that if parents did call in enquiring 
about the youngsters they would be told there was mail 
waiting there for them. 


ee 


Mrs. Hall took it upon herself to telephone each and 
every parent whose child had written letters and 
informed then that there was mail there from their 

boys and they could pick it up and bring letters for 
their children which, in turn, would be taken up to 
camp. This gesture was most appreciated by the parents 
and, certainly, Mrs. Hall made an excellent contribution 
to the public relations program of the camp. 


Recommendations More adequate housing for the camp caretaker and his 
family is imperative and pressing and should receive 
immediate attention. 


It is recommended that the back ballfield have major 
work done on it prior to next season with a view to 
enlarging it, leveling it, and making it more suitable 
a play area as the camp is limited by a lack of 
adequate flat play areas, 


It is recommended that the Program Staff Reports be 
reviewed by the Camp Committee for consideration. 


Co-ed Camping - 


There was considerable discussion amongst the staff 
this year regarding the possibility of introducing 
co-ed camping at Kanawana., It will be recalled that 
under the Chairmanship of Keith Farquharson a committee 
did an extensive survey of the YMCA constituency to 
ascertain interest in camping for girls. There was a 
very large and positive response to this survey which 
would indicate there would be considerable support 
for such a project. A recommendation was made to the 
Metropolitan Board of Directors that consideration be 
given to the establishment of a girls camp, following 
the report, but the Metropolitan Board indicated that 
while there was a good deal of interest in such a 
project, it could not be contemplated at that time 
because of other items that had to take priority at 
that time. 


12, 


Children today, in practically all instances, take 
part in co-ed activities in the Montreal YMCA and 
camping need not be an exception. There are many 
co-ed camps in existence today which are providing 
an excellent camping experience for the campers. 
Co-ed camping at Kanawana would offer the opportunity 
to fill the need for camping experience for many 
girls who are members of the YMCA and this type of 
an operation would help to round out the YMCA 
experience for our girl members, 


It is recommended that the Camp Committee give 
consideration to the setting-up of a pilot project 
in co-ed camping at Kanawana for the 1966 season, 
It is recommended that this pilot project be 
operated in the Woodsmen Section of the camp (10 
and 11 year old). This section lends itself to 
such a project. One additional unit could be added 
(this could be a tent) which would provide eight 
units in the section, four of which would be boys 
and four would be girls. There is adequate accommo- 
dation for staff in the section, The toilet facil- 
ities are adequate as presently constituted and 
would require only a partition and a doorway to the 
present building to allow for separate toilet 
facilities. One other addition required would be 
an adequate wash house with showers for the girls 
and this would not be an expense of more than $300. 
or $00. 


Appreciation of Kanawana is expressed to the 
many people who contributed to the growth and 
development of the Youth who attended the camp. 
The N.D.G. Y's Men's Club 

Westmount Branch YMCA 

Westmount Police Department 


Mr. Romeo Lafleur 


All of the staff of the Montreal YMCA 


Respectfully submitted, 


A, Ross Seaman, 
Director 


13. 


Camper Weeks by Sections 1955 


Pioneer 4,08 
Woodsmen 4,07 
Coureurs de Bois 375 
Pathfinders 378 
Rangers 16 

TOTALS 161), 


No. of Campers Each Week 


lst Week 200 

2nd 198 

3rd 206 

hth 21h 

Sth 208 

6th 209 

7th 201 

8th _178 

TOTALS 1614 

Number of Campers 473 


Average length of stay(weeks )3.h 
Percentage former campers 6.7 


Percentage "Y" members 27.3 


KAMP KANAWANA TEN YEAR SUMMARY 


1957 


382 
399 
393 
392 
130 


1696 


1958 


35f 
397 
371 
380 
118 


1623 


AGE OF 
CAMPERS 


STAY IN 
CAMP 

1 week 

2 weeks 

3 weeks 

h weeks 

S weeks & up 
6 weeks & up 
8 weeks & up 


BY WEEKS 
Protestant 
Roman Cathe 
Jewish 
Buddhist 

Not reported 


AGE OF 
COUNSELLORS 
16-18 
19-21 

22-27 

28- 


1955 1956 1957 1958 1959 


18 9 
60 69 
87 102 
115 103 
8h 102 
80 58 
u5 31 
cs ee 
10 1 
0 1 
367 338 64.2 
2 h 
109 137 
0 0 
a> Wg 
36 «27 
1203 115 
18 229 
236 18h 
29 19-17 yr 
8 9-18 " 
h 5-19 " 
O 3422.27 ® 


369 65.6 


TEN YEAR SUMMARY 


1962 


5-17 yr 
12-18 " 
6-19 " 
3-20 " 
3-21 u 
2-22 


1962 


3 
35 62-6 


5-17 yr 


8 " 


1-1 
7-19 
9.26 
2-21 
122 
1-23 


" 
" 
' 
" 
'" 


2-17 yr 
11-18 " 
h-19 " 
5-20 " 
-21" 
2-22 " 
1-23 0 
1-2); " 


3-17 yr 
10-18 " 
11-19 " 

Le20 " 

1-21 " 

1-22 " 


1-26 '" 


1955 
1956 
1957 
1958 
1959 
1960 
1961 
1962 
1963 
196) 
1965 


COLLEGE 


COUNSELLORS 


0 
8 
11-37.9% 
10-33 ..5% 
10=-31.8% 
20-60.6% 


2% 


AVERAGE 
COUNSELLOR 
AGE 
0 
O 
fe) 
0 
18.11 
18.19 
19. yrs 
18.6 
19.6 yrs 
19.4 
19 


TEN YEAR SUMMARY 


RATIO 
10 STAFF 
(to 1) 
9.1 (to 1) 
5 
4.3 
369 
30h 
he2 
iM 
heS 
heh 
3eh7 
2 


NUMBER OF 

ADMINISTRATIVE 

STAFF 
16 
17 
16 
17 
16 
17 
16 
17 
17 
19 
17 


JUNIOR 
COUNSELLORS 
IN TRAINING 


oOo mn SO 


‘oO 


COUNSELLORS 
IN TRAINING 


10 


GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF CAMPERS 


Tle Perrot 
Senneville 

Baie D'Urfe 
Beaurepaire 
Beaconsfield 
Pointe Claire 
Valois 

Dorval 

Lachine 

Ville St. Pierre 


St. Laurent 
Ahunsic & Cartierville 


N.D.G. & Montreal West 
Cote St. Luc 
Hampstead 

Westmount 

Central 

Outremont 

North End 

Rosemount 

T.M.R. 


Rosemere 


Roxboro - 7 
Dollard des Ormeaux- 5 
Pierrefonds - 8 
South Shore -26 
Verdun-LaSalle -i 
Hudson -5 
Sherbrooke -2 
Chomedey - 6 
Fabreville - 2 
Montreal East - 3 
Ville D'Anjou - 6 
From Ontario - 5 


From New Brunswick - 1 
Others from small 
towns in Quebec 

and U.S.A. -15 


(Campership Fund) - 13 


