Les Voyageurs de La Verendrye 
1966 


Trippers: 


Although 5 trippers were hired this year we had to make do with 
h for the two sessions on account of the failure of one to report 
to camp, The four trippers present: Mike Brennon, Udo Buechner, 
Ralph Fisher and Todd Sewell, proved to be first-rate staff members 
and the camp did not appear to suffer from the shortage. These four 
men are all quite different and had different approaches to working 
with teens in a wilderness setting but were fairly equally successful. 


This year a week of training was held at Kamp Kanawana. This in- 
cluded discussion and talks on: the background of the camp; the 
philosophy for working with teens; skill sessions; a first aid. 
session and preparation of the equipment. I feel that for next year 
we can cut this time at Kanawana shorter as the week up north at 
Lac Landron prior to the arrival of the voyageurs offers plenty of 
opportunity to go over such topics. The setting along with getting 
the camp set up makes the sessions all the more pertinent. 


Voyageurs: 


The first period was full with 25 boys taking part while there 
were only 17 in the last session. 


June 29-July 27 


Udo Todd 

Don Bailey Clark Hopkins Tom Moyle Jon Van Den Berg 
John Hackney Howard Lewis Derek Seaman Pierre Provost 
Bruce Robb Paul Wittes 

Mike Ralph 
Richard Tarlo Paul Stevenson Bill Finlay Andre Brassard 
Ted Hopkins Kevin Cadloff Dave Morrow Glen Miles 
Chris Dumper Pierre Brassard John Graham Brad Elliott 
Robert Lanoue Jonathan Bushnell Scott Hoover 
July 31 - August 21 

Mike Todd 
Bill Finlay Ian MacLaren Tim Bowman Mikael Stoffregen 
Terry Tustin John Graham Brian Wallace David Wheatley 

Ralph Udo 
Harold Forsberg David Lewis Gilbert Sansoucy Bruce Hatcher 
Phil Mitchell Jacques Godbout Tony Theodosis Philip Bushnell 


Barry Norris 


» 2a 


The grouping of the boys into the four sections was done on the 
first day of camp in both cases. I travelled on the bus from Montreal 
to Lac Landron with the boys of the first camp and so was able to 
interview them and divide them into groups accordingly. The division 
was done mainly on the basis of preferences stated by the boys. It 
worked quite well and there was only one instance in which a change 
had to be made on account of personality clashes. 


As can be seen from the above lists the fifth group was split 
between two of the other groups. 


In the second session the grouping of the boys was done at the 
base camp as soon as the interviewing was done. 


The first period went very smoothly except for the third last day 
when one of the boys decided to hitch hike down to Montreal on his 
own. It seems that this act was prompted partially by desire to 
leave and partially by the adventuresome aspect. Both his tripper and 
I had talked to him previously when he first mentioned his idea and 
felt we had discouraged him. Evidently he had fooled us for a day 
later he slipped away. Fortunately he arrived home safely. 


In the second camp there were two boys who had to be taken into 
Maniwaki to the hospital. One had injured his hand treking a set 
of rapids and the other had severe pains in the abdomen as well as 
aifficulty sleeping and eating. Neither boy's condition was serious 
and after they were treated they were allowed to return to camp. 


One problem that occurred both periods was smoking. Since we 
had not asked for any evidence from the parents stating whether or 
not they allowed their son to smoke we had no effective means of 
control. Next year we must make sure that this matter is mentioned 
in the literature so that camp does not become a place for boys to 
gain the smoking habit. 


In the coming year with EXPO in the spotlight it may prove in- 
creasingly difficult to obtain a full camp. I feel that it will 
consequently be necessary to intensify the advertising campaign and 
it might be feasible to offer a package plan for "out-of-the-province" 
boys by which they would visit the World's Fair either prior to or 
following camp. 


Program: 


In each period the first three days of camp were devoted to 
checking the skills of the "voyageurs' and training them in any areas 
in which they were weak, The training outline was as follows: 


Canoeing: - tipping 
- strokes 
- packin 
- portaging 


Swimming: - basic skill and endurance 


- 3- 


Equipment: - packs - packing and how to carry 
- bedrolls - waterproofing 
- care of equipment 
- use of axes, knives and machetes 


Campsite: - how to choose 
- how to set up 
- types of fires 
- how to leave a campsite 


Map and Compass 


AA U 
Ot 


This introductory period also gave the tripper a chance to assess 
the ability of his individual Voyageurs and of his group as a whole, 


During this period each group would also plan their trip, have it 
checked by the Director and arrange meoting times. 


In all cases the groups went out on an extensive canoe trip 
during their respective veriods. Each group came back to base camp 
several days before their departure date so as to be able to get 
their equipment cleaned and in top shape. 


Equipment: 


The tripping equipment was generally well received by the trippers. 
There will be need in this coming year to replace and replenish some 
of the supplies as some articles have reached the limit of their 
service. Two canoes were badly damaged in accidents through care- ie 
lessness this summer and one definitely is beyond repair. One tent 
seems to be rotting and tears very easily. As well there are some 
cooking utensils lacking which should be replenished. 


At the beginning of camp a new tire, which had been recently 
purchased for the truck, was stolen from the landing area where the 
vehicle is parked. 


In the second period we had trouble with a push-rod on one of 
the valves breaking. The exhaust system also broke away from the 
frame and had to be reconnected and one case a spot-weld was necessary. 
The shock-absorbers also were showing signs of losing their ef: 
fectiveness. In the first period one of the absorbers broke its 
anchor plate and this had to be replaced. From my observations this 
summer I would suggest that thought be given to replacing this truck 
within the next year in order to prevent incurring high repair bills. 


It is suggested that a can of "OFF" be added to the "What to Bring" 
list as well as a varnished paddle if we do not supply a varnished one 
for sale. The main difficulty with the hand-made, unfinished variety 
that we have been providing is that they become waterlogged and rough 
in a short time. 


Food: 


- - 


The types of food used were very good and in almost all cases 
well received. Through talking with the trippers and from my own 
observations I have some recommendations which I feel are valid: 


l. 


9. 


10, 


Change to Carnation Instant Milk - the type of powder 
we used was hard to mix especially after getting damp. 
It did not have a pleasing taste no matter how it was 
mixed. 


The Pizza mixes tried this year worked out very well. 
It is recommended that pizzas be brought into regular 
use next year and the amount of spaghetti increased 
with Kraft Dinner being reduced accordingly... 


The addition of kernel corn this year to provide 
vegetable variety proved successful and should be 
maintained in the menu. 


We are overstocked in breakfast cereals. In most cases 
Grape Nuts were not well received and there was a lot 
of waste. This item can be reduced in quantity in 1967. 


Research should be done to try to discover new types 
of canned meats on the market. More variety would be 
good. 


The Burns Sausages were not liked but the Burns 
Frankfurters were very much. Concentrate more on 
the latter in '67. 


The tea should be ordered in bags as the loose is 
difficult to handle and work with. 


More bread should be provided - Tea Bisk is not filling 
the gap and lunches are inadequate and in most cases 
non-existent. 


The Sunkist Orange Base was accepted much better than 
the Sunkist Lemon Base largely because the lemon base 
required sugar whereas the orange didn't.. 


The Clark's Beef Stew was in many cases liked better than 
the Clark's Irish Stew. A variety of both would be good. 
Also we might try Clark's Chicken Stew now out - same price. 


Base Camp Staffs 


There is a definite need for base camp boys who will be in 


camp when the director is not. This need was indicated this summer 
by the increasing number of tourists on the lake and emphasized by 

the loss of the truck tire mentioned earlier. Also they perform a 

useful function inthe running of the base camp, 


» Faw 
Base Camp Site: 


Wilderness camping has an important place in the Montreal YMCA 
camping picture and will continue to have in the years to come. The 
site now being used is an ideal one. Efforts should be made directly 
to lease or purchase this land on Lac Landron while it is still 
available. It is an excellent base camp from which trips can go out 
and increased activity in the area will not lessen its ability to 
function as such. 


This year a cabin has been started with the floor being laid 
and the walls started. It is anticipated that this building will be 


finished in the coming year. This will serve as the director's 
residence. 


Respectfully submitted, 


Jack Soule 
Director, Les Voyageurs 


September 1h, 1966 


