PROPOSAL FOR EXPANSION 
French Language Department 
of 
The Adult Hducation Center 


International Y.M.C.A. 


May 2, 1966. 


EXISTING PRACTICE & OBJECTIVE 


For the past thirty-five years the International Branch of the Montreal 
Y.M.C.A. has been involved in the teaching of English as a second lan- 
guage to New Canadians. The objective of this Program has been to 
provide these people with a means of communication through which they 
can seek to better their own personal standards and growth, thus en- 


abling them to become more productive members of our Canadian Society. 


THE GREATER PROBLEM 

Within the past three years, the impact of our French Society has become 
increasingly apparent. It has been realized that in order for a greater 
level of understanding to take place between the French and English 
cultures, it is necessary for each to experience the other personally. 
Part of this must involve learning of a second language so as to be 


able to open the door of that cultural group. 


This challenge has been taken up much more by the French than by the 
English in the past. However, as was previously said, the impact of 
the French community has been such in the last three years, that it 
has become necessary for the English to take it upon themselves to 


learn the second language. 


Here in Quebec we are faced with the increasing demand for bilin- 


gualism and many jobs are placing this qualification very near the 


iia 


top of their list. dnglish speaking people in Quebec are in the minority 


and the need for French as a second language has become a major concern. 


WHAT IS INTERNATIONAL DOING ABOUT THIS PROBLEM? 

In the Fall of 196); in answer to the increasing demand for French 
language instruction, the Adult Education Department opened up courses 
of French language instruction. Since that time over 670 students have 
received French Language instruction at this branch and close to 170 
students have received instruction given them at their own place of 
work such as Sherbrooke Paper Products, Dominion Rubber Co. Ltd. and 
Canadian Pacific Railways. At the present time we have 75 students 
taking French language courses at International Branch and our exten- 


sion program being operated at Canadian Pacific Railways. 


The Department began its instructions by employing post graduate students 
from the University of Montreal and since that time has expanded its 
faculty until in the Winter of 1966 part time professional teachers 


and 3 post grad students were involved in the program. 


THE IMMEDIATE PROBLEM 

At the present time we have expanded our French Program to the point 
where it is no longer possible for one person on a part time basis to keep 
it under control. In the past, course development and curriculum 

control has been done by part time teachers such as Jacques Gagnon 

and Albert Zgarka who have given a small portion of their time to this 


area. However, areas of supervision, curriculum control, and course 


development have expanded so in the past year that it is no longer 


possible to administer these areas at peak efficiency. 


The demand for French Language Courses is not decreasing but increasing. 


Various companies are demanding that more and more of their employees 
take French in order that the company can more effectively relate to 


and serve the French community. Companies are asking for courses at 


all times of the day and night, morning, afternoon and evening, placing 


more demands uponthe language schools for the use of full time or retired 


instructors who are available at these times. 


With the development of a Company Course, a great deal of research needs 


to take place in order that the curriculum can be custom made to meet 
the company needs. Various methods of teaching and length of courses 
need to be developed to be able to give the company a variety of 
choices that will meet the needs of different levels of employees 


that take the course. 


Up to the present time, International Y.M.C.A. has been able to 
operate a satisfactory French Language Program. However, if we wish 
to expand the present program we are going to need much tighter 
control on the areas of supervision, curriculum control and course 
development. We are at the present time pressing our luck with the 
programs now in operation and any further expansion under the present 


conditions could put the whole program in jeopardy. 


-)- 
WHAT HAS BEEN THE REACTION TO OUR COURSES? 
In this section only companies where we have offered French will be 


discussed. 


SHERBROOKE PAPER PRODUCTS LTD. 

It was this company where our out-of-building French Programs began. 

Basically the company was satisfied with the course. However, there are 

certain factors that must be considered. 

1) The course was held during a peak period for the company and as a lot 
of students involved in the course were salesmen the attendance varied 
very drastically. 

2) The time that was best suited for the company to run their course was 
not possible for us to accomodate, as they wished a2 course in mid 


afternoon not after working hours. 


DOMINION RUBBER COMPANY LIMITED 

In this company we ran three different French classes. Two beginners 
and one Intermediate. The company was very satisfied with the work 
that we did there and it was with regret that they had to discontinue 
the classes last year. Basically, the main reason for discontinuing 
the program was the lack of sufficient employees to make up classes. 
Due to transfers and job responsibilities only half of our original 
groups remained making it impossible from the company's financial point 


of view to continue. 


-5- 
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAYS 
As yet, due to the fact that the C.P.R. courses are still in session, no 
formal review of our work had taken place. However, a number of comments 
can be made on this contract. 
C.P.R. spent nearly $30,000.00 on French Courses this year with Inter- 
national receiving only 1/3 of this amount. The other 2/3 went to the 
Mount Royal School of Languages. Why? 
In the Fall, when these courses were set up, we were not cpable of handling 
the total number of students that C.P.R. had due to lack of staff, lack 
in versatility in program and inability to teach except after ):30 pm. 
Some of the areas where we have failed to meet our objectives have been: 
1) Curriculum control, insufficient research has taken place for us to 
offer and teach a well company oriented course. 
2) Supervision, it has been impossible for the Adult Education Director 
to supervise effectively due to his lack of French and his inexperience 


in the teaching field. 


HOW HAVE Wz COMPARED TO THS MOUNT ROYAL SCHOOL? 

From all reports to date, International and Mount Royal School have 
operated at about the same level of performance. Both have failed to 
some extent to meet the objective of teaching a custom-made course. 
However, Mount Royal have had the staff, and resources to offer a variety 
of courses both to small and large groups. They have been sins to 

teach at all times during the day which has allowed them to take on more 


students. 


fia 
Reactions at this early date are quite favourable to continuing the program 
in the Fall. However, this must wait the approval of their new president 
when he is appointed. There are certain areas in the French field that 
are in need of development. (1) Advanced French Grammar Course and 
(2) French Business Correspondence. However, these can only be developed 


through an expansion of our Program under highly specialized supervision. 


WHY MUST WE EXPAND? 
We have been in the field of communications for 35 years. Our YMCA 


objective is to build Christian personality and a Christian Society. 


If we accent this objective then we cannot turn down the challenge to 
help our community made up of inglish and French to live together in 
harmony, each accepting the other and trying to learn about and from 
the other. Our role in this is to teach the French Labguage to the 
best of our ability, not only imparting knowledge of a language but 


also of a cultural society. 


A second but no less important reason for us to expand into this field 


would be the financial implications that it would have for our YMCA. 


As has been previously stated, any further expansion with the present 
staff and resources would be hazardous to the entire French Language 


Program. Any expansion that does take place must assure us of top 


coverage in this area of supervision, curriculum control and course 


development. 


NED FOR A SPECIALIST IN LINGUISTICS 

The Adult Zducation Department recommends that International YMCA 

hire as a full time employee, a Specialist in the field of linguistics, 
fluently bilingual, (English & French) and capable of handling the 


areas of supervision, curriculum control and course development. 


With the addition of this person to the staff, the Department would be 
in a position to sell at least enaqugh programs to cover his salary and 
expenses during the first year and would be well on the road to greater 
development in the language field both program wise and financial during 


the second year of this program. 


Having this individual on the staff would give the department the 
versatility needed to negotiate with various companies being more aware 
of their needs and offering them the selection of programs best suited 


to their needs. 


The inclusion of this individual within our organization would enable 
us to better serve our community and do our small part in helping to 
establish a greater sense of brotherhood between the French and English 


cultural groups. 


WHAT WOULD Bi THE R&SPONSIBILITIES OF THIS SPECIALIST? 
Such a specialist would be attached to the Adult iducation Department 
of International YMCA and would assume the title of "Assistant Director". 


He would be directly responsible to the Director of Adult iliducation. 


xs 
The following would be a proposed outline of his job responsibilities 


during the first year:- 


1. Hiring of all French Personnel for the teaching of French as a 


second language. 


2. Supervision of all French Language Teachers. 


3. Accept full responsibility for the teaching of French at Inter~ 


national YMCA both in-building and out-of-building programs. 


Such responsibility would include: 

a) development and implementation of curriculum 

b) orientation of new personnel to curriculum 

c) teaching of more advanced and specialized courses in French Language 


Language field. 


lh. Work closely with the Adult Education Director in the sales and 


development of company oriented courses. 


S. Work co-operatively with the Adult Education Director in terms of 


scheduling, budgeting, co-operative program planning and advertising. 


HOW WILL THIS EXPANSION BE FINANCED? 
The in-building French Language Program has, up to this time, been 


operating on a break even basis. It has been just meeting (a) teaching 


-9- 
costs, (b) advertising costs and administrative costs which would in- 


clude a portion of my salary. 


However, the company centered programs have brightened the department's 
financial picture considerably. To date our out-of-building French 


Programs have grossed $12,605.00 


DOMINION RUBB&R 480.00 

1200.00 
SHERBROOKS PAPER PRODUCTS 225.00 
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAYS _10700.00 


12605 .00 


Approximately 65% of this money has been used for teaching and admin- 
istrative costs. 50% teaching and 15% administration such as my 
salary and expenses. This has left approximately 35% to enhance the 
department's budgeted surplus income figure. This year alone, because 
of our C.P.R. contract, the budget surplus was increased by approx- 


imately $4,000.00 


With the addition of a Specialist to the Adult Education Center, I am 
confident that additional programs will be sold so that the salary 
of this specialist can be met without harming in any way the proposed 


budget of the department for the coming year. 


ai Ge 
It is quite apparent although not officially confirmed at the moment, 
that C.P.R. will continue their association with this department in 
the coming year. With this type of prestige and the inclusion of 4 
linguistic specialist on our staff, it will allow us a far greater scope 


upon which to deal with new companies. 


It is anticipated that the cost of a French Specialist would be 


approximately: - 
Salary $8 , 000.00 
Pension 700,00 


Travel & Expense 1,300.00 

$ 10,000.00 
This expense could be well taken care of if we are able to sell programs 
totalling about 2 1/2 times the size that C.P.R. has been this past year. 
If C.P.R. renews its contract with us, then there is every possibility 
that the renewal would be on an expanded basis over and above this year's 
if we are able to offer them the services of a specialist who would 


develop programs more closely relating to their needs. 


It may not be possible to finish next year in the same budget position 

as this year. Our first year in this venture will require most of the 
surplus above expenses on company contracts to pay for the specialist. 
However, with this program, it is possible that within two or three years, 
the income from this expanding program would boost our surplus $10,000 

to $15,000. Various discussions that have taken place between the Adult 


Education Director and persons such as Dr. Whitelaw, Head of the French 


-l1- 
Department S.G.W.U., Mr. Harry Suffrin, Manager of Operational Planning, 
Steinberg's, and Mr. J. Duclos, Vice Principal of Baron Byng High School, 
would seem to support this view and highly recommend this type of ex- 


pansion. 


THE RECOMMENDATION 

The Adult Education Committee would strongly recommend that the Board 
of Management of International Y.M.C.A. approve this document and 

take action to secure as a member of the staff, a linguistic specialist 


with the qualifications outlined in this brief. 


Respectfully submitted, 


Erle W. Ulley, Chairman Adult Education Committee 


Ward G. Minielly, Director 


Adult Education Center. 


