WD oO os 
o( -CAmMO(Y (As) -| AG Ae eK elle Ahk. 


PG YQ - Woubnat, -Om 
—— pated at 
VRos 6 wpymrerd- Lor 


LES VOYAGEURS DE LA VERENDRYE Srvidarclo| 


CAMP DIRECTOR*’S REPORT 1967 


The following report is based on recommendations and ideas discussed by the staff 
during a variety of discussion periods extending over the whole course of the 
Summer, It is hoped some of these will be acted on to improve_camp operations 
next Summer, 

Staff: It is hoped that the staff will be hired before the end of January 
1968, A number of us would like to return next season and contacts 
are out to other interested parties, 

Campers: It is hoped that we will be able to improve registration next 
year, A number of campers have already indicated intentions of 
returning. By changing our promotion and spreading it over a 
greater area we could attract the older age group (16 - 17) for 


which Les Voyageurs appears to be designed. 


Campers during the first period were for the most part return 
campers of 1966. They divided themselves into groups on the bus 
ride to camp, After a certain amount of watching, questioning and 


discussion, the staff confirmed the wisdom of the campers choice. 


The second period campers were placed in groups according to parents’ 


wishes, personal requests, desired experience and camping ability. 


Both methods were unscientific but worked for these groups, 


Pre-camp training tended to be Unstructured, Discussions about camping 
procedures, camper problems, etc, for the most part took place while the staff 
was painting canoes or sewing tents, The first week at Kanawana should remain 
a patch and sew period as much as possible. There does exist a need for 
instruction in first aid, survival camping techniques and problems facing 
contemporary teenage boys, This instruction should be specifically designed 
for our particular problems by people familiar with our type of situation, 


It should be organized to fit in with our repair sessions or else pre-pre-camp, 


The week at Les Voyageurs was not as satisfactory as it could have been, Next 
season the staff should spend one or two days on the trail to go over procedures 


of the trail, techniques, etc. 


Camp Program: The staff found the standard of camping and care of equipment 
at Les Voyageurs to be generally low. There were also a number of 
attitudes concerning camping which the director md staff felt were 
in need of change, Although we want to keep Les Voyageurs as free 
of structured program as possible and allow the camper the maximum 
amount of responsibility for himself we cannot accept an “anything 


goes" attitude, 


For this reason a number of changes in technique were introduced 
and directives were given by the director to the staff and campers 


concerning conduct on the trail, 


Visits to the Dorval Lodge and Le Domaine by canoe trips were 
limited to short periods necessary for a pop and candy bars. Trippers 
camped some distance from these spots so that the temptation for 2 and 
3 day visits was avoided. Repeated visits to lumber camps for "free 
meals” were discouraged as was the practice of camping in private 


cabins belonging to various hunting camps. 


On base camp sites an emphasis was placed on an attempt to discourage 
indiscriminant cutting and maiming of trees, New kybos (parliaments) 
and garbage pits were dug. Canoe racks were built on two of the 
three sites used so that canoes were not left beached on shore, An 
attempt was made to clean up stumps on the various sites, Next year 
proper fireplaces and eating tables should be constructed as well as 
canoe racks on the other sites, The birch bark teepee built several 
years ago had deteriorated to the point of being an eyesore and so 
was removed, The poles were stacked for future use, The log cabin 
also built in the past was cleaned, logs re-chinked with moss and the 
roof covered with tar paper. A group using surplus fibre board panels 
converted it into a steam bath, Plans were laid for the construction 


of a hot shower and bath tub on the same location for next year, 


Axes were kept under the control of the tripper in an attempt to 
limit injury to campers and trees, Axemanship displayed by new and 


old campers was at tines nerve wracking, 


Although campers at Les Voyageurs are generally already experienced 
their standards are far too low and they will require a program of 
training in elementary camp skills before moving off on their trips. 
Trips were organized for one shift portaging. Campers were retrained 


so that they could do single lifts and carries, 


An attempt was made to introduce the use of canoe lines for river 
work, The staff should be trained more thoroughly in their use as 
they save wear and tear on equipment, It was insisted that canoes 

be removed from the water when not in use, The practice of ramming 
the shore and tossing paddles out of canoes still requires work to 
discourage it,Although the director is an exponent of dry foot camping 
our circumstances just about rule this out, Techniques of wet foot 
camping (getting your feet wet rather than grind a canoe on the shore 
while loading or unloading) were adopted and should be continued, 

We will have to re-examine our footwear, The shooting of rapids was 
restricted so that equipment was not damaged for the sake of a thrill, 
This did not eliminate the shooting of rapids as it is impossible to 
move through the country without hitting white water. Greater 


emphasis has to be placed on the skills required for fast water work, 


Although Les Voyageurs appears to need a camper training set-up we 
think it should remain as unstructured as possible, Many of our 
problems can be solved by changing attitudes towards a pride in 


doing things well, 


Les Voyageurs should be a place where a boy can pound his chest md 
bellow "Look what I've done", It is significant that one crew by the 
end of their session could all carry a canoe singles for at least 


200 yards and all took a fair amount of pride in their accomplishment. 


It had been suggested by the director that each tripper take his crew 
on a short two day trip before attempting any major one, This would 
allow techniques of camping to be established and practiced and yet 
allow the campers time to adjust themselves and their gear, During 
both periods no tripper adopted the suggestion, At the end of the 
Summer during evaluation sessions trippers recommended a similar 
idea, It should be adopted next year, A short route which covers 
various types of terrain and centres on Lac Landron has been partly 
explored for such a trip. It is felt by all staff that emphasis has 
to be put on fast water work as this is where most of the damage to 


canoes occurs, 


All crews elected to go out for extended canoe trips this season. 
Pressure for this came from campers during the first period and from 
staff the second, As all staff are new, and records of past trips 
are scanty, an attempt was made to systematically explore the 
country and compile information for a master set of maps showing 
routes, campsites, portages, rapids, etc, It should be noted that 
our current maps are 1938 vintage, Routes of these trips will be 


outlined and evaluated in a later section, 


All trips left from and returned to Landron, An entrance from the 
South was explored and found - in future years with portages well 


cut this should become a commonly used route, 


During the first period weather and bugs were a problem, Two of the 
three trips returned to base camp after a week to re-equip and re- 
organize, It has to be observed that the degree to which a trip was 
chopped by bugs and weather was directly related to the bush skill 

of the tripper. It is the director's belief that a trip may be wet 
or bitten but 5; still successful unless it is unable. to cope with 
its surroundings, no matter how skillful the leadership is in dealing 
with group frustrations, etc. - if he has bush skills many of the 


frustrations and tensions wouldn't have arisen in the first place, 


Dave Taube's crew remained on the trail for their scheduled time and 
moved through the country with a certain esprit de corps that only 


a crew of successful bushwackers can maintain, 


After regrouping md rebuilding the confidence of the other two trips 
both pulled out for the remaining period of time and had successful 


trips. 


Flies and damp weather brought on a series of colds, coughs and 
infected fly bites, The first aid kit proves itself to be something 
of a joke and in these circumstances its inadequancies lec toa 
number of cases of physical discomfort, The director was able to 
meet each trip once a week to check on health conditions, In most 
cases it takes less than a week for simple fly bites to become 
infected or a cough to develop into a severe cold, It has not been 
the director's experience or any of the staff to have to cope with 
such inadequate medical kits. By limiting itself to aspirin, 
bandages and hydrogen peroxide the camp may be safe from legal 
action but it says little for our concern for people, The suggest- 
ion that we turn our first aid problems over to the facilities at 
Camp Landron merely shifts the weight of legal responsibility from 
us to Canadian International Paper Company - a position which I 
doubt, in spite of their generosity and help,they want to bein, First 
aid kits may not have been a problem in the past - this is a problem 
now and will have to be solved, The director would like to discuss 
our situation with a doctor and a lawyer and attempt to find an 
answer, Trippers should also be given a first aid course by someone 
familiar with the type of situations we would find ourselves in, 
This course could be given during the week at Kamp Kanawana, It 
should cover such areas as what to do with axe wounds, bites, 

broken bones, burns, etc., as well as minor problems encountered 


in the bush, i.e. athletic foot, fly bites, and vitamin deficiencies. 


It is recommended, if possible, to obtain the help of an Air Force 
instructor in bush survival techniques not because I expect anyone 
to have to survive in the bush for any length of time, but to help 
promote an interest in survival camping - living off the land - 
ise, total involvement with our environment and not just as a 
tourist. This should cover edible plants, ways of cooking fish, 
frogs, turtles, etc,, shelters, rescue signs and signals, how to 
cope with pests - again this would be done during the week at 


Kanawana, 


Each trip returned to base camp with one or two days to spare 
before the end of camp. This gave each crew member an opportunity 
to clean and repair their kit, The second period crews were a 
mixed lot and for the most part inexperienced or Kanawana trained. 
Trips were not as arduous and for the most part entered areas not 


explored during first period. 


The truck was used to transport one group out to a spot so that 
they could cover country that appeared interesting on the map. 

It was used to bring in another trip at the end, This arrangement 
worked satisfactorily as in both cases it allowed the trips to 
move into country they wouldn't have had time to reach if they had 


paddled directly from Landron, 


One trip returned to the base camp four days from the end of their 
session and contented themselves by fishing, cooking and eating 
blueberries. One trip didn't swing back into camp until midnight 
before camp closed, This shot down any orderly closing of camp, 

In pre-camp training definite arrangements for contacting base 
camp should be established and definite plans laid down for search 
parties, their movements and the movements or non-movement of the 
lost party. This would at least allow the director to anticipate 
some of the actions of the trippers in certain situations, This 
country is wild, but there are few places where contact cannot be 
made with people. Our problem is communications between base camp 
and trips. Messages just do not arrive at base camp, Therefore, 
we have to work out a set of pre-planned systems of procedure, 

On two occasions a tripper had to leave his group in order to hike 
back to camp to inform the director of a necessary change in plans, 
This director is a product of the school of thought which maintains 
a tripper never leaves his crew unless absolutely necessary, In 
these two cases things worked out and trips were able to continue. 
However, for a period of 24 hours one crew was leaderless and 
legally wide open for action, In a second instance a tripper 
should have contacted camp but instead stuck with his crew and 
attempted to solve his problem by bringing his crew and part of 
their equipment back to camp, By his decision campers were under 
constant supervision but the total operations of the camp came to 
a standstill and base camp with one base camp boy in charge and 
nine campers had to run the closing of camp, the preparation of a 


closing banquet, personal cleaning and packing... 


During our analysis of what went on the suggestion was made that the 
camp adopt a junior counsellor or senior camper position. This 

would be a past camper who is chosen by staff on his past performance 
and personality, approached by the camp during the winter, either 
offered the session at a reduced rate, for free, or for a small wage. 
His duties would be as a counsellor's assistant, relief, and as a 
legal cover if the tripper had to pull out to contact base camp, 

The idea has a number of kinks in it, one being the "Joe boy" 
positions, junior counsellors are often reduced by self-satisfied 


trippers. However, its merits are worth looking into, 


Each week the director met each group to re-supply, deliver mail 
and discuss trip problems with its tripper, During this Summer, 
for a vareity of reasons it took an average of two days to find 
and supply each group. With a full camp of five groups this would 
impose a heavy load on the director's time, A junior counsellor 
on each trip would allow the tripper freedome to withdraw from the 
group and possibly lengthen the time between sessions of mental 
therapy with the director, Two people in charge per trip would 
release the anxiety of the director somewhat when a trip didn't 


make its meeting point on time, 


The director again is the product of a system that allowed a trip 
to move through country for 18 - 20 days without making contact 

with base camp. By re-organizing our food this would be entirely 
possible (as things now stand we can just carry a week's supply of 


food and at that cut rations). 


10, 


One complaint of the trippers was that each week had to be planned 
as a separate trip. That is, the route was greatly determined by 
the ability of the director to drive to a meeting point and the 
operations of the trip were determined by the need to be at that 
place at a certain time, The trip becomes a round of moving from 
point to point. With a junior counsellor on each trip this 
connection to camp can be loosened, the tripper and crew are free 
to move and do as they like over a greater period of time, The 
junior counsellor also allows us to increase each group from six 
to nine - a group size that can maintain itself in the bush and 
move far easier than the six - with five groups we increase our 
capacity from 25 to 35 or for base camp logical purposes reducing 


the groups to four with seven campers (28 full camp). 


Base Camp: On the opening of camp a number of jobs had to be handled - 
damage due to weather had to be repaired - a new dock and approaches 
were constructed, canoe racks, shelves in storage shed, a flag pole, 
and a roof was put on the log storage shed, A new kybo was dug 
(12 feet deep) and a dwelling constructed over it to serve as a 
storage shed and reading room, Work progressed on the log cabin 
to the extent that three walls are up. The remainder of the cabin 
should be finished next year. Base camp was re-organized so that 
only one storage tent is now necessary plus the staff tent. The 
fly oven kitchen is in good condition, staff tent needs one seam 
sewn, Next year plans call for another log storage shed, cmoe 
racks of a more permanent nature, new garbage, pit, hot shower 


and bath tub in island log cabin, 


lls 


As mentioned before only three of the camper sites were used this 
year. All require work to clean up damage done to trees in the 
past. 

The Canadian International Paper Company opened a public campsite 
down the bay. Les Voyageurs now lies on the path of fishermen 


coming and going fishing, and as a result had many visitors. 


On two occasions Voyageur campsites were camped on by fishermen 
(not noted for their clean camping habits). It is strongly 
recommended that Voyageurs lease its sites and post the land so 
that there will be no interference with the program, The road to 
the Voyageur landing has been changed. A new dock is planned for 
it next year, The entrance from Road 16 is rough for 4000 square 
feet but it discourages tourists. A road map of the area should 
be left at Kamp Kanawana, To move from base camp to Rapid Lake 
is a 2 - 24 hour trip although only 34 miles by road, For the 
director to spend 5 hours driving to give directions to incoming 
traffic is considered a waste of time, energy and gas. A couple 
of strategically located signs and a map showing C.I.P.'s road 


"30" is all that is required, 


It is suggested we post signs on the roads to indicate the YMCA 
has activities in the area, An incident this Summer showed that 
very few people in the area know we exist or just where we are 
situated. It could be difficult for someone trying to get 
information from a trip to me in an emergency. TI would suggest 
plywood signs of a good size that could be removed at the end of 


a season's operations, 


12. 


Base Camp Boys: Rick Holyoke and Harry Fox were hired as base camp staff 
and worked closely with the director in keeping the camp organized. 
Their main duties were organizing food, breaking it down (re-packing) 
for trips, filling food orders, maintaining the kitchen, cooking 
and many other jobs not defined, Their willingness to help others 
sometimes left them open to "Joe boy" jobs, When base camp slack- 
ened off they spent their time on construction in camp, On supply 
trips one of the boys would accompany the director, Both would 
discuss the operation of camp with staff. Being of similar age to 
the campers they were often filled in on areas kept from the staff. 
Both Dick and Harry developed a strong rapport with the staff, 
helped maintain the director's sanity and enabled and reminded me 
to attend to many details I otherwise would have forgotten, The 
leadership and personal initiative displayed by these two fellows 
was on numerous occasions on a par with that of the trippers. Both 
boys have expressed the desire to come back next year. With their 
experience this year they should be able to do an ever better job 


and I would recommend re-hiring both, 


Each boy was hired at $50,00 for the Summer, As they worked a 
full day each day, and on numerous occasions more than a full 
day I don't think we lost on the deal. I would expect a similar 
or better salary next year for base camp duties, If Rick or 
Harry do not return I would suggest we make a strong attempt to 


get a past camper for the job. 


Equipment: 


Canoes: 


13 


The equipment for the most part did its job this year, It will 
be necessary to replace a number of items next year and adjust our 


equipment to suit our situation and activities, 


Canoes for the most part leaked and were heavy. Bow seats were 

a real problem- at some stages half the fleet having broken slats. 
These should be replaced with steady constructed or gut lashed 
seats, The bad bow seats are due to poor construction and also 
poor technique in unloading the canoe at landings, i.e. packs 
were carried up the canoe and dropped on the seat before being 
lifted off. However, this director has never experienced before 


this Summer seats that break from being sat on, 


Canoes are portaged singles - it is suggested the camp look into 


the use of yokes or canoe tumps, 


New canoes should be of heavier construction, heavier canvas and 
at least one foot longer, Chestnut Kruger or Cronge canoe models 
are recommended (70 and 75 1lbs.). This move has been recommended 
a number of times in the past and I don't understand why it hasn't 
been carried out before now - The slight increase in initial 

costs can't possibly overbalance the accumulated savings in 


repairs due to the heavier construction, 


14. 


It is also suggested that the camp look at the practice of selling 
off canoes after 3 or 4 years and replacing them with new equipment. 
In our situation (and we only have to look at the fleet) a canoe 
after six years is so heavily patched as to be next to useless on 
trips or good only for spare parts, By spreading over four years 
the cost of the equipment and then reclaiming $50.90 we should be 
able to maintain a fairly reliable fleet. From my experience 


damaged canoes only get damaged that much easier, 


The purchase of aluminum canoes looked into, Although none of the 
staff "like metal canoes it may be an economic factor to look into, 


Look into Rilco canoes, 


It is recommended another method of repairing broken planks be 


found - the present method only encourages dry rot. 


A supply of paint and varnish be kept at base camp so that canoes 


can be maintained, 


Canoe keels be bolted on - at present the keels can't be tightened 


if the keel springs. 


A supply of bow irons be kept at base camp plus spare seats and 
thwarts. If Kanawana is scrapping canoes we wouldn't mind the 
parts. A supply of spare planking - either new or from scrapped 
canoes and one or two spare gunnels. It was only because we had 
two spare canoes this season that we were able to run trips 


without delays caused by the need for canoe repairs, 


Packs: 


15. 


Three canoes were damaged this season, In two of the three cases 
it was a human facter that caused the damage - one lack of skill 
and knowledge of precedure and the second bad judgements, Several 
canoes need to be stripped and possibly recanvased, Work should 
be done on all canoes well in advance of pre-camp so that trippers 
are not spending time doing major repairs and not having time for 
the minor details, I suggest the outfitting of a couple of sail 
canoes and insignia an the bow for identity - we don't like being 


called boy scouts in spite of their many virtues, 


Pack sacks were all eld this season and a number should be 
replaced. Most packs lacked tump lines - these should be found 
or purchased as it is very awkward to carry this style of pack 
without them, Tumps are an integral part of the Deluth pack 
design and I can't see attempting to carry a 90 1b. pack 2 or 3 


miles without them, 


It is suggested we purchase some larger pack sacks with a different 
strap arrangement, Damage to our packs this year was due to them 
being lifted by the straps. We have to re-educate the campers 


on how to lift and lower packs or else change styles. 


Tents & Flies: All tents are fine except for minor holes, Flies are in 


bad shape and a number have to be sewn or replaced, It is 
suggested that the camp purchase four 3 man Bark Lake tents as 
developed by Camp Wangoma (Toronto YMCA), These would be for 


the use of a crew which wanted to move around the country. 


16% 


As it is now a 12 x 12 tent plus fly weigh three times as much and 
take up a complete pack sack, It also requires an open flat space 
at least 20 x 20 feet. This is not always possible in our country - 
in fact on some stretches it is frankly impossible to pitch this 
tent because of space problems, Base camp does not require any new 


canvas as it should be eased out of use by next year. 


Cook Kits: We need two new kits plus canvas bags to carry the pots in. 


Maps: Maps are old, inaccurate and important sheets are missing (out of 
print). We are developing a master map with all known routes, 
campsites, rapids and portages marked on, We would like to have 
a complete set of topographical maps for base camp on which this 


information is marked, 


Map cases worked for the most part, Recommend continuing to use 


them, 


Experimented with water-proofing maps with a plastic spray - all 


maps should be so treated in the future. 


I recommend the camp purchase a supply of La Verendrye maps to 


sell to campers for use on their trips. 


Paddles: Campers being sent to La Verendrye should be encouraged strongly 


to get a paddle before arriving at the Park, 


17. 


The camp paddles are all one standard size - impossible situation 
for someone planning to use it every day for four weeks, A paddle 
should fit as comfortably as a good pair of shoes, otherwise you 
get sore shoulders and blisters plus a wretched padcling style 


that is difficult to work with or chage in later years. 


Truck: No problem - should be re-cheeked and loose nuts and bolts tight- 
ened, Right front fender nut is loose, Fan belt squeeks - may 
need tightening, Battery needs a more permanent attachment - small 
wire to it needs soldering, Gas gauge needs adjusting. Right rear 
shock may need to be tightened to frame, Roof paint needs to be 


touched up. 


Truck racks need to be replaced with something steadier, In two 
emergency situations and twice for program purposes it was 
necessary to move trips by truck, This meant two canoes on the 
roof, It can be done easily enough but the racks have to be 
stronger, For the most part the camp truck had a canoe on top 
when on supply runs, A more secure arrangement woulc have helped 


the driver's nerves, 


Outboare Motor: The motor needs to be completely overhauled - many nuts 
and bolts are loose. A new handle is required, A new starter 
cord and oping in the re-wind, The water pump needs to be 
repaired, The impeller is slipping on the shaft, There will 
be a spare motor at camp next Summer so that mechanical breakdown 


won't be a problem, 


Odds & Ends: 


Food: 


One of the naptha hurricane lamps needs new gaskets, 
A propane gas refrigerator would be wonderful. 
A buzz saw would be fantastic. 


A flag would be patriotic, 


See the comments of 1963-64-65 Directors, 

I am investigating dehydrated foods and sources of supply. I don't 
think we can just limit ourselves to deciding now how much less 
grape nuts flakes to buy. Food (as far as tripping foods are 
concerned) just did not make too much sense this Summer, As canoe 
trips appear to be our main program we have to adjust food to its 


requirements and this means looking at the whole situation, 


Supplies - Sheets: A system was worked out for the base camp boys to use 


in the issuing of food, Each tripper was issued his equipment and 
this entered on his supply sheet. To draw food the tripper made a 
week-menu - broke this down into numbers of servings and this into 
number of cans required, etc. This was checked by the director and 
then the food orders were made up by the base camp boys, It allowed 
the tripper to establish a menu and then adjust it as required by 
weather, etc. A refined system has been worked out and will be put 
into practice next year, It will be based on a list of our supplies 


from which the tripper marks off number of meals and units per meal. 


Trip reports were limited to conversations between the director, 
trippers and campers, A portable tape recorder would have been 


helpful here. 


Campers and trippers were encouraged to keep logs of trips, These 


are being collected and we hope to have them published for Xmas, 


Photographs were limited to three people this season, An attempt 


should be made to obtain good photographs for publicity purposes, 


Tripping Areas: 


The entire staff being new and unfamiliar with the country and with 
scanty records of past trips, it was planned to send trips into 
different areas to get an idea of the lay of the land, The first 
period of three crews was divided so that two crews were those 
wanting extensive tripping and the third light and easy short ones, 


All three crews left from and return to Lac Landron by water. 


Paul's crew first spent a week moving up the South channel of the 
Ottawa. They had planned to move up the South channel and down 
the North to return to Lac Landron, Bad weather, bugs, and in- 


experience forced them to turn back after only doing half the route. 


The second trip was down the North channel of Ottawa, up Ottawa to 
Lac Bouchette, to Lac Bernier, Seven Mile Bay into Cabonga Reser- 
voir to Washeka Bay and back the same route, In spite of earlier 
reports the country is extremely beautiful, easy going and perfect 


for a young and inexperienced group. 


Dave Taube's crew elected to go out for as much of the four weeks 


as possible. 


They left Lac Landron up the Ottawa to Lac Ferguson to Lac 
Camachigama to Lac Vimy to the Capitachouane River to Moore and 
Lac Capitachouane, Lac Choiseul, Lac Furger, down the Camachigama 
to Lac Camachigama, Lac Akos, Lac Bouchette and into southern 

Lac Landron, The country varied greatly but the further North 
the wilder and more beautiful it became. Good country for an 
experienced crew to explore, Dave made contact with Camp 
Kapitachouane on Lac Choiseul which runs trips similar to ours in 
that area (since 1942), The director knows the area quite well 
and his camp has established a number of portages, The area 
hasn't been cut by C.I.P. for a number of years and is worth 


investigating again, 


Dave's second trip was similar to the first except he was trucked 
to the vicinity of L, Lalsbert to enable him to explore the Susie 
River and North of L. Choiseul, This time he returned down the 
Capitachouane River to Ottawa and Lac Landron, Much of the country 
in this area has been changed by a recent dam (not shown on present 


maps). 


Bob's first trip had been planned as an extensive one as his 
campers were for the most part returns from last year, He was to 
have explored the lower Capitachouane, across the Chochocouane 
River to L. Demaine and North, Flies and weather forced him back, 
his crew refitted and replanned a route to L, O'Sullivan, They 
moved down the Ottawa to Bouchette to Cabonga South to L. Bark 


to explore a portage between Bark and Lac Poigan, 


21.6 


One doesn't appear to exist though it could be cut, They returned 
to the Cobanga dam and into Lac St, Amour, Low water forced them 
to halt here and they hae to move to a spot further up the Belinge 
River, From there they continued up to O'Sullivan and finally 
into the Ottawa and Lac Landron. The first part of the trip was 
easy and again contrary to previous reports, beautiful and good 

to camp on, The last part was rough and should have been taken 


in the other direction i,e, downstream only for an experienced crew, 


Bob's second crew took a short trip after spending time in base 
camp and more time after their trip. Again, it was planned to 
explore the Chochocouane River but troubles with non-existant 
rivers (shown on maps) and portages forced a shift into the Dozois, 
through a chain of lakes to Lac Cematose, Here they were trucked 


back to camp. 


Paul's second trip left Lac Landron down the Ottawa to Bouchette, 
Lac Barriére Ottawa River to Lac Dozois to Grand Lac Victoria and 
back to Dozois. This country proved to be easy to move through 

and extremely beautiful, at some places on a par with the country 


in Algonquin Park, 


Next year for average trips it wuld be well if we continued to 
explore West and leave the "gung - hoo” trips for the Northeast 


and Southern areas. 


It has been suggested that for next year a special trip be organized 
which would follow a pre-planned route from Landron, Wdst through 
the Park to Kinpawa to the Ottawa and down the Ottawa to Kanawana 

or the vicinity. This trip would be advertised as such and campers 
sign on for it (mainly second or third year campers). This would 
become a regular part of the Les Voyageurs program - with trips 
being planned at least two years in advance so that those boys at 
Les Voyageurs can plan for the following year, Its route would 

vary year to year, It would be self-contained and self-sufficient, 
It would also mean Les Voyageurs could attract the older ex- 


Voyageur camper and still leave program for the ex-Kanawana type. 


I have suggested an idea to Bob Nesbitt (Camp Wangoma) that we look 
at the possibility of sending trips from La Verendrye through 
Algonquin to Wangoma and then being shipped by truck to Ottawa and 
from Ottawa to Kanawana, Bob is also trying to develop an extensive 
canoe tripping program, An exchange canoe trip, one coming, one 


going looks good on paper and may be worth further investigation, 


Confidential Information Form: It is suggested that the form be designed so 
that part is filled in by the parent and part by the boy. Very 
often the information given by the parent on the son is a picture 
of the parent and not the boy we are working with. I would like 
to see a sheet in which the front contains statistical information, 
age, experience, religion, etc., boy's objectives in coming to 


camp - what his interests are, what he plans to do in Vite, Ste. 


The reverse side would be for the parents - their view of son and 
relationships in family peer group, (not questions such as does 
your boy have friends younger, older) why they are sending boy to 
camp - why this particular camp? 

In an attempt to solve our medical problem it may be an idea to say 
we are using this, this and this drug or medicine in our first aid 
kit. Do we have the permission of the parent to use it, or a form 
stating our medical supplies and have the doctor, during his 
physical examination, determine if he is allergic. Or if our 
medical kit is to be what it is then I think we have to state our 
position in no uncertain terms and allow the parents to equip their 


own sons, 


I think "Care" packages should not be a problem if it is stated to 
the parents and the campers that such packages in our situation 


are to be shared between the group and this is understood by all, 


Camp's Public Image: I think that on some occasions there was a distorted 
picture in the minds of campers and parents just what the physical 
set-up of La Verendrye is like, I think we should describe to 
parents — possibly with photographs - what our facilities are, 
where they are and how we use them, I think our operations 
should be described in more detail than the usual generalized 
“clean mind, clean body". I think we have to try and present an 
image that appeals to a particular type of boy - a mixture of 
Huck Finn and Jack London, I would like to see our posters be 
made a little more bold and flashy - and distributed outside 


the YMCAs, 


be 


(I think we should watch what we show in a presentation of the 
camp to parents - the picture of shooting rapids is fine except 
the gsernsman doesn't sit with his paddle across the gunnel in that 
kind of water), Les Voyageurs developed a certain esprit de corps 
this Summer, a feeling of superior camping ability and bush wisdom, 
This should be reflected in our advertising. We worked on an 
attitude towards the bush, an aesthetic feeling for beauty, the 
pleasure of a good paddle, a camp site that combines all the 
necessary points plus a good view, This should also be reflected 
in our presentation of our image. I would like a list of books 
for the camper put on the information sheet so that he can read 
up - not just on technique but also philosophy of camping. 

Calvin Rutstrum - North American Canoe Country 

- New Way of the Wilderness 
Sigurd F, Olson - The Singing Wilderness 


Listening Point 


- The Lonely Land 
- Runes Of the North 


Red Cross Manual - Canoeing 


General Ideas: I would like to see a Christmas card with a photo of camp 


or area sent to each camper from the camp, 


I would also like to have the reports of the trips reprinted 


and distributed to all of last season's campers and staff. 


ho 
ui 
© 


I would like to see a camper reunion week-end or a few days 
during Christmas where we can get together (at Kanawana or further 
North) to snowshoe, ski or winter camp. This idea has already 
been discussed between the staff and some campers and has a 


favourable feeling. 


The clothing list sent to the campers appears to be designed to 
satisfy anxious mothers, I think we have to look at this care- 
fully. In practically every case this Summer extra clothes had 
to be left at base camp,because of our set-up they only got damp 


and musty, 


In such beautiful fishing country we should do everything to 
encourage the bringing of tackle to camp. However, we should 
explain (and list equipment) that full tackle boxes, nets, etc., 
ete., can't be carted about on long canoe trips. Few boys had 
tackle this Summer and most of that was left behind at base camp 


instead of being taken on the trips. 


I would like a questionnaire sent out to the past campers asking 
them for news on their experience: 

- what they got out of camp 

- what changes they would see in (1) Program 
. (2) Equipment 
(3) Food 
asking parents (1) what they see being improved 


(2) what son got out of camp and/or 


(3) did it accomplish what they wanted. 


I would like to see the philosophy of Les Voyageurs (what its all about) 
put down on paper (and not in the typical vague generalities) so that 
directors, trippers and even campers can know in what direction this 
camp is moving and why. This would also enable us to clarify 


attitudes about program and its implementation, 


Campers should be screened so that those who are coming are able to 
fit the rather particular environment of Les Voyageurs (i.e. I don't 


think we are a language laboratory). 


I would like to see a budget breakdown of expenses of this year's 


operations against the proposed budget, 


I would like to see compiled this winter a cook book (or find one) 
for each trirper to take on the road, This would offer different 
ways of preparing meals from basic staples and help prevent meals 
from falling into a rut, (at least end any excuses), I think all 
campers should cook on the trail and this would help them to some 


extent, 


Polyethelene bottles were very useful anc we can use more, Instead 
of a metal lid it is suggested we change to a polyethelene one - 


they don't leak, 


The food bags worked satisfactorily and also can be increased, 


ave 


Heavy gauge plastic bags (green ones used by Department of Highways 
for sand) would be ideal for lining pack sacks. I believe they are 


made by 3-M Company. 


Staff Relations: The staff developed into a unit and worked as a team for 
the full length of the season. The awareness of eee feelings 
displayed by the crew, the willingness to help each other and the 
concern for each other's problems was a situation I was very happy to 
work with, There were, of course, problems and tensions which for 
the most part were faced and resolved one way or another, A staff 
that had two days off out of a nine week operation who worked in a 
confined group and remote area who did hard physical labour most of 
that period who were never able to be free of their responsibilities 
or seek temporary diversions and who came through sane ad sociable 
certainly should be congratulated, Criticisms of their shortcomings 
have to be weighed very carefully against the reality of their 
situation and their own special set of problems, That the camp, 
program anc staff need to improve standards is evident from the many 
recommendations of this report, The staff is aware of this need as 
many of the recommendations are theirs, The camp should be aware 
of the needs of the staff and be prepared to go out of its way to 
help satisfy them, I think the staff more than fulfilled their 


obligations to the camp and campers this year. 


After a successful Summer the last few days at Kanawana were to say 
the least "cold", The mechanics of this period should be examined 
so that personal tensions cue to re-adjustment are kept to a 


minimum in the future, 


Camp Les Voyageurs de la Verendrye is a wonderful thing, Like 


anything worthwhile it requires attention to keep it in line, 


David Taube, 
Paul Mongraw, 
Bob Matheson, 
Trippers, 


Submitted by, 


David Blake, 
Director - 1967, 


Richard Holyoke and Harry Fox, 
Base Camp Staff. 


28, 


