MONTREAL YMCA 


INTERNATIONAL BRANCH 


PROPOSAL FOR FRENCH LANGUAGE DAY CAMP 


SUMMER 1968 


May 3, 1968 R.S. Wilson, 
Director. 


CONTENTS 


I. Reasons for the Program page 1 
1. Difficulties learning French al 

2. English-French understanding aE 

3. Introduction to the Montreal community 2 

lh. An alternative learning method 3 

II. The 1967 Experiment and Results 3 
1. Improved French 3 

2. Wider Horizons 4 

3. An exciting summer experience 5 

lh. Personal development 5 
Test results 6 

III. Recommendations for 1968 6 
Chsing recommendations 1967 6 
Proposed program 1968 7 
Appendix proposed budget 8 


I. 


INTERNATIONAL Y.M.C.A. 
PROPOSAL FOR FRENCH LANGUAGE DAY CAMP SUMMER 1968 


Reasons for the Program 


In the summer of 1967, the International YMCA conducted an 
experimental project to help New Canadian children learn 
French, We are concerned with this problem for four reasons: 


Le 


It is obvious that the necessity to learn French creates 
many problems for the New Canadian child. Oriented to 
the North American society, he has struggled to become 
conversant in the English language while at the same time 
developing his ability in the native language of his 
parents. The latter is essential in maintaining the 
primary family group. 


Through the efforts of the school, and because English is 
the language of his school mates and of the cultural milieu 
he wishes to identify with, the immigrant child reaches 

an acceptable level in a second language. 


However, if he wishes to succeed within the educational 
system he is forced to learn a third language. To many 
who are already endeavouring to deal with two languages 
this becomes an odious task, That failure or promotion 
within the school system often hinges on his ability in the 
third language creates frustrations and fears that were 

not present in his eagerness to become part of the much- 
awed North American society. 


This summer French program is seen as a means of intro- 
ducing the child to the French language through the use 

of an environment which is, as closely as possible, similar 
to that in which the learning of English had seemed so 
worthwhile and exciting. By introducing the child to 
French in a social context, it is hoped that he will gain 
similar stimulation and motivation as had been provided by 
the challenge to become part of English-speaking North 
America. 


The Montreal Y.M.C.A. is concerned with the development of 
the potential of people. It seems obvious that if one is 
to play a full and understanding role in this province it 
is impossible to remain ignorant of the feelings, aspir- 
ations and culture of the majority. 


ate 


Recently much has been made of the danger of the French 
Canadian cutting himself off from the rest of North 
America, The same dangers are present when the English 
speaking Quebecer, and especially the immigrant, is unable 
to identify with or understand the language ofthe majority 
within his province. 


Through this summer program it is hoped that a start will 
be made on bridging the gap that presently exists between 
English and French-speaking citizens. Not only will the 
child become more conversant in French, but he will also be 
introduced to the real Montreal and the French-Canadian 
culture, to which proficiency in its language is the key. 


The community of which the International Y.M.C.A. is part 
has the largest immigrant population in the city. A great 
concern of ours is the development of sub-groups which be- 
come increasingly isolated from the main-stream of this 
cosmopolitan metropolis. 


It would not be inaccurate to describe this region as a series 
of villages between whom there is a minimum of communication, 
Frequently the life led by the New Canadian is built around 
the culture and social system of the village, with the most 
superficial aspects of the modern metropolis serving to create 
an illusion of progress and improvement. 


The Y.M.C.A. is not primarily concerned with the cultures 
these people choose. However, we are concerned with the con- 
flicts and despairs that are the result of fears and pressures 
founded on ignorance. It is the withdrawing into the close 
ethnic group and the inability to break away from it that 

is the cause of the failure to become more truly a part 

of our society. 


By introducing the New Canadian children to aspects of the 
metropolis of which they are largely ignorant, this program 
hopes to enable them to gain a greater understanding and 
feeling for the society in which they live. 


This program is an attempt to demonstrate to the partici- 
pants (and educators) that learning can be exciting, and 

need not be drudgery and imposition. By providing an environ- 
ment which offers stimulation and is free from outside 

threats true learning and insights are possible. 


The task of the educator in such a method is not to in- 
troduce and enforce facts but to develop a climate of 

trust and care for the individual. The attitude of the leader 
should not be that of a condescending authority, but of an 


-3- 


equal whose greater experience and knowledge of resourcessis 
at all times available. The educator's role should be one 
which is not a challenge to the individuality of the student. 
He may suggest but cannot enforce. He can be challenged and 
corrected. 


If the leadership provided is autocratic then questioning 
will be seen as a challenge to authority. However, if the 
educator has been able tw develop an acceptance of himself 
by the group then it can only be viewed as part of the dem~ 
ocratic process. 


By encouraging participation and by providing a challenging 
experience this program hopes to demonstrate to all concerned 
that there are alternative methods of learning. 


In summary then, the YMCA embarks on the summer program: 


1. To try to help the children in the area overcome diffi- 
culties in learning a third language in the school system. 


2. To try to begin to help English and French-speaking 
citizens understand each other. 


3. To begin to introduce New Canadians to the culture of the 
majority of the province of which they have been unaware. 


h. To demonstrate an alternative learning method. 


II. The 1967 Experiment and Results 


The program was run last year on an experimental basis with 
only 30 children taking part. The specific goals were defined 
ast 


1. Improved French 

2. An introduction to wider horizons 

3. Providing each child with a worthwhile and exciting 
summer experience. 

h. Personal development. 


Following is the evaluation of last year's program in the 
light of these goals. 


be 


yes 


Improved French. The statistics on page 6 leave no doubt 
as to whether the program was a means of improving each 
child's ability in oral French. The method has not pro- 
duced miracles, but its success is not limited to that 
statistically indicated. 


A significant remark was made by one of the group. "I 
have not learned many new words but when someone speaks 
to me, I understand them. It makes sense." 


Perhaps even more significant was the remark, " It was 

not really learning at all, even when the leaders made 

you speak French, it was fun." I believe this statement 
is the key to the whole process. The program broke down 
the view that French is an imposition, as the memorizing 
of verbs and rules, Instead, French became the password 
to an exciting experience; it fitted into a social context. 


This aspect of the program more than any other requires 
further development. Although forewarned that the children 
would be testing them in the first few days, the group 
leaders made the mistake of frequently conversing in 
English. Once this was established they had a continual 
battle to enforce the "French only" rule. 


Towards the end of the program, short intensive vocab- 
ulary sessions were introduced, These were extremely in- 
formal and concentrated on words of value within the 
context of the program. This was found to be successful 
as it enabled the child to express himself in a more 
fluid style. 


A further experiment was inviting the French Canadian 
children in the branch to sit in on the movies and to take 
part in the Penny Fair. This was also successful and 
particularly in the later event produced a program that 
was exciting to all who witnessed it. 


There can be no doubt that the program did much to bring 
about a change in the attitude towards the learning and 
the use of the French language. With this year's ex- 
perience and with the innovations tested during the pro- 
gram even more significant results can be produced in 1968. 


An Introduction to Wider Horizons. For most of the group 
members, the fact that they were sharing their summer 

with people outside the dhnic community was a new and 
challenging experience. By participating in activities 
with other children, notably French Canadian, group members 
were exposed to one of the most valuable features of this 
bilingual and cosmopolitan city. 


-5- 


The group was not restricted in its movements. Visits 
were made to Radio Canada, the Dow Planetarium, Outre- 
mount Parks, and the outdoor swimming pool at Kent Park, 
The Kent Park visit was an all-day affair, each child 
taking a picnic lunch. National Film Board movies 

and slides were shown and served to introduce further 
aspects of this city and country. All these activities 
were conducted in French, 


Through this exposure, the group did experience some 
aspects of life outside the ethnic community. However, 
much more could have been achieved. Exciting ideas 
were presented but were not always developed any fur- 
ther. In part, this was due to limited financial re- 
sources and time restrictions, 


In the final analysis it can be said that for 3 or 
hours a day, each child moved away from the restric- 
tion of the ethnic community and made contact with 
other aspects of the society in which he lives, 


Providing each Child With a Worthwhile and Exciting Summer Experience, 


This program was structured to function between 1 and pm, 
That it was successful can be most clearly seen by the 
pattern of attendance. Throughout the five weeks of the 
program it was notable that each participant did not see 
any restriction to his being at the Y. Each day members 

of the group would begin arriving as early as 10 am, and 
it became a regular feature for many to have lunch in the 
building. In similar fashion, four o'clock was not the 
signal for the group to disband and members would be in 
the Y till five or five-thirty. The eagerness to partici- 
pate was also reflected in the high rate of regular attendance. 


The above features and the interest and enthusiasm shared by all 
the participants would certainly indicate that the program 

was providing a meaningful summer for all concerned, For 

the majority this was their first experience in any type 

of organized summer program and the excitement and energy 
demonstrated left no doubt of each child's re-action to it. 


Personal Development, 


"They have developed real group feelings and do things as 
a group now." This quote from one of the group leaders 
adequately indicates the position the group reached. 


Participation in a democratic group was a new experience 
for all. The results of such an experience were in some 
instances outstanding. The most dramatic development 

was shown by a small Chinese girl. At school this girl 


~6~ 


had been extremely timd and insecure; rather than mix and play 
with her classmates, she preferred the company of her teacher. 
An indication of the social progress she made is the fact that 
by the final weeks of the program, the child was taking a full 
part in all physical activities, was contributing to the group's 
newspaper and had accepted responsibility for washing any 
utensils used, As the program progressed, a feeling of being 
part of a group was most noticeable; however, individuality 
was not lost. On the contrary each personality seemed to 

gain confidence and become more positive. Over a relatively 
short period of time, it was gratifying to observe the manner 
in which the freedom allowed was accepted in a responsible 
manner. Discipline problems were almost non-existent in this 
program. 


Testing- An oral test consisting of 50 questions was prepared 
by one of the Protestant School Board's French specialists. 
Records were kept of the number of questions the children 
could comprehend and respond to. 


The children were tested at the beginning of the program and 
again at the conclusion. 


Results of the question and response test were: 


July mean score 26.7 August mean 3.4 
July median score 27.0 August median 35.0 


Thus an increase of 7.7 in the mean score and an increase 

of 8.0 in the median score indicates a significant increase 
in the children's ability to comprehend French questions and 
respond to them. 


TII. Recommendations for 1968 


Following the evaluation of the 1967 program, the following 
recommendations were made (in August 1967) for the summer of 1968. 


1. It is recommended that - French camp be a part of our pro- 
gram next summer and that it be expanded so that we can 
deal with approximately 200 participants. 


2. It is recommended that further research and thought be 
given to the development of this method of learning and 
that some funds be made available now for the preparation 
of necessary equipment and aids. 


3. It is recommended that next year's program run for 6 
weeks, 5 or 6 hours a day. 


-7- 


h. It is recommended that a thorough training program be 
designed for next year's leaders. 


5. It is recommended that the possibilities for the use of 
an outdoor area within walking distance of the Y be in- 
vestigated. 


6. It is recommended that all possible areas of financial 
support be thoroughly investigated. 


We propose to conduct the program this year in line with the 
recommendations. The strength of last year's program (notably 
the use of the small group which plans and rung its own pro- 
gram and the employment of competent French Canadian advisors) 
will be retained. The carrying out of these recommendations 
will enlarge and strengthen the program, 


It is hoped that this year the program can be made available 
to 200 children. For this hope to become a reality, funds 

must be found to subsidize the program. Otherwise, the cost 
to the participants would be far more than their ability to 


pay. 


Based on two periods of three weeks each, each period serving 
100 children, the following budget has been drawn up. Three 
scales of fees have been used, and produce three different 
subsidies required. 


The need is urgent, and plans have been made. The counsellors 
are recruited, and a start has been made on curriculum, All 
we require to do the work is financial support, 


Appendix - Proposed Budget 


-8- 


Income (based on three fee scales per three-week period) 


lst period A B C A B C 
100 children @ 5.00 7.50 10,00 500, 750. 1000, 
2nd period @ 5.00 7.50 10.00 500. 750. 1000, 
Total Income 1000. 1500. 2000. 
Expenses 
Director 3 months 1/5 time and 6 weeks full time 1040. 
Counsellors 10 @ 350. for 7 weeks including one week 

training. 3500. 
Materials 400. 
Miscellaneous 200. 


Total Expenses 


Subsidy required 


(a) with $ 
(bo) with $ 
(c) with $1 


$ 4140, 
$ 360. 
fee $ 3140. 


5140. 


