‘Sean Mellarr, Peter Hayvren, John Mingolla, 
(members elected by the Teen Club to 
represent the teens before the Board.) 


Since the beginning of summer, there has been a great interest in the ine 
creased number of teen coming to the International YMeCeA. There is interest 
not edly benaine of the great increase, but because this increase has shown that 
& great number of teens from the community itself have become aware of what the 
"Y® has to offere We feel the reasons for this development ares 1) the lack of 
almost any other facilities in the area, 2) the organization of a teen lounge, 
dances, and sports activities by the teana, 3) availability of facilities, ex» 
cluding the pool and gym, were open to all teens whether menbers or nob, 4) the 
increased interest of. the "Y" in providing some staff and equipment for the use 
of the teens. 


_ We would also like to emphasize that during the sumer the activities which 
were organized depended to a great deal on the teens. Much of the equipment, in~ 
cluding ampliptiers, decorations, records, etc. were provided by the teens, Also 
post of the organizing and planning has been dus to the initiative we ourselves 
have taken. In other words, while we are grateful to the "Y" for the use of 
certain areas of the building, the teen club has so far operated with little or 
no direct financial assistance. 


But there is much more to be done. For the teen club to continue to be 
effective and grow, much more planning, organization, and probably some financial 
assistance will be necessary. Specifically we see certain developuents as de« 
sirable if the "Y" is to deeply involve itsalf in the needs of the teanss 1) 
financial agsistence for water polo teams, basketball games, etc. 2) one 


ss SO 


ie Seed 
permanent room for use as a teen lounge, 3) experimen’ with possibilities for 
teen use of the building on evenings during the week and Saturday nights, )) a 
floating fund for the teen club which would allow loans to begin projects and would 
hopefully but not necessarily be paid back. 


Along with our hopes for the future, we also realise there are problems, 
There has been some damage to the building and equipment. In past cases, the 
teens have paid out of their om money for damage done to one wall and a record 
Player. We will continue to pay for damages, but more important, we hode ‘that 
the emphasis we have lately put on respecting property will continue to be 
effective and more, serious damage will not result. 


In conclusion, we would like to thank this Board for the opportunity of 
appearing before them and sharing our plans and problems, We hope that for 
ihe veut of the year, by working with this Board, the Youth Comnittes, and 
YMCA, staff, the teen club will. continus to grow and serve the needs of the 
young people of our comnunitys 


