MILE END WEST PROJECT - C.D. TASK FORCE 


GOALS: 
To develop a sense of "community" among the residents of Mile Ind 


West, so through cooperation and united action they may alleviate 


the present social and economic conditions. 


Through "action learning" enable the large immigrant population 


become more integrated and effective in the total society. 


OBJECTIVES: 

1.x Meet the citizens of the area and gain their confidence. 
The fears, distrust amd feelings of hopelessness of Mile 
End West citizens have been described and must be overcome 
if they are to solve their problems. 

2. Assist citizens learn they can change the conditions affecting 
their lives. A climate must be created in which the citizens 
are aware that they have the same rights as all Canadians and 
can and should exercise them. 

3. Assist the citizens learn how to solve problems. They must 
learn to define problems adequately, how to identify resources 
they possess or have access to, and how to bring these re- 
sources to bear on the problem, * 


% pe 1h, Mile End West Project 11/68 


CONSTITUENCY: 
Total population 0,385 %* 
Canadian born 52% y 


Other 8% * 


>, 


nin 


< 


Average Income per family $ 3,840 


Average Income per head of family $ 2,903 
* 1961 Census. 


In the years 1965,66,67, immigration to Mile End totalled 30,000. 
The largest percentage were Greeks, with Italians, Portuguese and Chinese 


being other significant groups. 


Presently our main concentration has been with the Greek population 


the largest ethnic group and the one most in need of help. 


In fact no Greek community exists as the population is completely 
divided and often alienated from each other. There are a few Greek 
organizations usually representing a geographical region at home and with 
the main purpose being to provide assistance for those who have not 


immigrated. 


However, several incidents over the past two years have shown that 
there is an effective informal system of communication. Decision- 
making is not restricted to any particular group one of the weaknesses 
in the community being a lack of leadership. The church, upper and middle 


class Greeks in no way speak for the residents of Mile End. 


APPROACH: 


* Concept and Philosophy - At present, the terms "community" and "community 


development" are open to differing interpretations. Therefore, the sense 


in which they will be used in this proposal is as follows: 


-3- 


"Community, defined in its implicit elements, is any process of 
social interaction which gives rise to more intensive or extensive 
attitudes and practices of interdependence, cooperation, collabora- 
tion and unification. Community in this sense is not a place, it is 
a process by and through which people are learning to relate to one 
another in such a way that the capacity for cooperative, collabora- 
tive living is developing." (Edward E, Lindeman, Encyclopedia of the 
Social Sciences, vol h. p. 103.) 


"Community development is the conscious effort to stimulate and 
facilitate the growth of individuals to mature interdependent re- 
lationships through action learning. The action may be through in- 
ternal or external intervention into the life of the community. 
Community development is more than re-organization or re-alignment 
within the structure of a community. Community development involves 
changes in the lives of individuals, their attitudes, their fears, 
and their orientation to their environment. Through "learning by 
doing", the individual relates to others in identifying and defin- 
ing community problems. A further step in the process is the de- 
velopment of cooperative relations with others, to utilize internal 
and external resources as they may be needed to gain more control 
over the environment." (Edgar Smee, National Council, Y.M.C.A.'s 
Toronto, Ontario), 

The democratic state has provided channels whereby citizens may 
legally make known their dissatisfactions and desires for change. It 
is our intention to inform the citizens of Mile End West of these legal 
means and help them learn how to use them. However, it would be naive 
to believe that these channels at all times remain open. Vested in- 
terests and the threat of change can make it difficult for under- 
privileged citizens to express their concern and to be heard. In 
such instances, the power (the ability to control or bring about 


change) of a united front becomes a political reality with potential 


to bring pressure to bear in those hindering the democratic process. 


The objective of this project is to gain the trust of the people, 
assist them in identifying problems, unite them so that they may plan 
solutions, and to provide support as they follow their plans through 


action. Much of this work will be done quietly in interviews, 


whine 
meetings and planning sessions, Only when attempts to make use of the 
provided channels have been rebuffed, do we believe that overt action, 


such as demonstrations or mass publicity is valid. 


It is our intention to help the residents of Mile End West learn that 
through planned change and responsible united action they may gain the 
power to bring about change in their environment and to gain the rights 
that have been denied them. Through "learning by doing", we believe 
the residents will gain a greater sense of "community" and so become 


more productive and active members of the total society. 


The community development process involves not only social but also 
psychological change. For by learning to deal with ptoblems through 
communicating and cooperating with others, the resident is exposed to 
others! view of life. Through participation and exposure, the adult 
is forced to deal with his fears and anxieties. While the changes in 
the adult may be minimal, the effect they have on his children can be 


of great value in enabling them to more readily adjust to the new society.* 


* pp. 11 &12 Mile End West Project 11/68 


RATIONALE 

* In 1965 the Montreal Y.M.C,A. began an intensive evaluation program, 
the results of which are to be the basis of guidelines and objectives 
for the coming decade. As a part of the overall process, the International 
branch conducted an evaluation of its on-going program, which together 
with surveys conducted by other agencies, formed the basis of the branch's 


Planning and Development Report. 


al 
This report indicates that the community served by the branch is grappl- 
ing with the dual problems of poverty and cultural alienation. The ex- 
tont of the scio-economic problem was far greater than had been antici- 
pated and it became obvious that the only adult programs of real value 


were the English and French classes conducted by the language centre. 


As a result of this study, it was recommended that a community develop- 
ment project be established in the area known as Mile End West. This 
area is defined by Pine Ave. in the south, C.P.R. tracks in the north, 
Hutchison in the west, and St. Dominique in the east. These barriers 
were chosen because they defined an area populated mainly by immigrants 
and which had not been served by similar projects conducted by the Company 
of Young Canadians, the Urban Social Re-development Preject, or the Mon~ 


treal Council of Social Agencies. 


As of September 1967, one member of the staff spent one day each 
week, meeting with the people in the commnity and assisting them to 
identify their problems and concerns. From these efforts a need was 
identified and a proposal for a limited community development project 
was approved by the branch Board of Management. However, it became 
obvious that much more was really necessary and a more comprehensive 
proposal was drawn up and submitted to the local Board and the Metre~ 


politan Y.M.C.A. Board of Directors. 


In February, the Metropolitan Executive Committee approved the pro~ 
posal and in March the Metropolitan Board of Directors approved both 
the principal and the type of work proposed and the solicitation of 


government funds. However, efforts to have the project financed were 


unsuccessful, and the project has operated since May on small grants 
from the Nationai Council of Y.M.C.A.'s and the Montreal Y.M.C.A. 
Although operating on a limited scale, the project has been effective 


but to accomplish its objectives, full financing is a necessity, 


* pp. 2 & 3 Mile End West Project 11/68 


