INTERNATIONAL Y.M.C.A. 


FRENCH DAY CAMP REPORT 


1968 


R, Wilson, 
Director. 


FRENCH DAY CAMP REPORT 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION 
19 


International Y.M.C.A,'s French Day Camp has just completed its second summer, Based on 
last year's experience the goals for this year were as follows, 


1) To try to help the children in the area overcome difficulties in learning a third 
language in the school system. 


2) To try to begin to help English and French speaking children to understand each 
other, 


3) To begin to introduce lew Canadians to the culture of the majority of the prov- 
ince of which they have been unaware. 


4) To demonstrate an alternative learning method to that employed in the schools at 
present. 


5) To enable children to learn new skills (in areas other than language ) e.g. 
a) social skills in their groups, b) sports, swimming and craft skills, etc. 


6) To provide children with an exciting, worthwhile "fun" experience, 


These goals were more thoroughly spelled out in the program proposal dated May 1968 
as were the following recommendations, 


1. It is recommended that - French Camp be expanded so that we can deal with 
approximately 200 participants, 


2. It is recommended that further research and thought be given to the development 
of this method of learning and that some funds be made available now for the 
preparation of necessary equipment and aids. 


3. It is recommended that next year's program run for 6 weeks, 5 or 6 hours a day. 


lh. It is recommended that a thorough training program be designed for next year's 
leaders. 


5. It is recommended that the possibilities for the use of an outdoor area within 
walking distance of the Y be investigated. 


6. It is recommended that all possible areas of financial support be thoroughly 
investigated. 


We propose to conduct the program this year in line with the recommendations. The 

strength of last year's program (notably the use of the small group which plans and 
runs its own program and the employment of competent French Canadian advisors) will 
be retained, The carrying out of these recommendations will enlarge and strengthen 
the program, 


On 
It is hoped that this year the program can be made available to 200 children. For 
this hope to become a reality, funds must be found to subsidize the program, 
Otherwise, the cost to the participants would be far more than their ability to pay. 
Based on two periods of three weeks each, each period serving 100 children, the 
following budget has been drawn up. Three scales of fees have been used, and pro- 
duce three different subsidies required. 


_PROPOSED BUDGET - MACH 1968 


Income (based on three fee scales per three-week period) 


lst Period A B C A B C 
100 children @ 5,00 7.50 10,00 500, 750. 1000, 
2nd Period @ 5,00 7.50 10,00 500. 750. 1000. 
Total Incone 1000, 1500. 2000, 
enses 
Director 3 months 1/5 time and 6 weeks full time 100. 
Counsellors 10 @ 350. for 7 weeks irfluding one week 
training. 3500. 
Materials 00. 
Miscellaneous 200, 
Total Expenses 510. 
Subsidy required (a) with & 5.00 fee & hilo, 
(b) with & 7.50 fee 360. 
(c) with 10.00 fee 310. 


With these goals and in the light of these recommendations we set about preparing 
the 1968 French Day Camp. Following is a brief resumé of what happened this summer, 
and an evaluation of the concerns of the program, as well as the success of the 
program. 


The budget was based on the premise that support would be found for the program 
from outside sources, however, this proved to be overly optomistic, and no support 
was found. Approaches were made to the following organizations without success. 


a) St, Jean Baptiste Societé 
) Club Richlieu de Iontreal 
c) Club Richlieu de Maisonneuve 
d) Rotary Club of liontreal 
e) Optimists Club 
f) Chevaliers de Colomb 
g) Chambre de Commerce de Montreal 
h) Board of Trade - Montreal 
i) Ministére des Affaires Culturelles du Québec 
j) Inter-Service Clubs Council 


=3- 


These applications for support were made between early March and late June but by 
the start of staff training, it became apparent that no support was forthcoming and 
other means had to be found. 


The fee had to be set at § 12 for non members and $ 10 for Y members, and one 
immediate result of this was a slow registration. However, we were able to cut back 
on staff to 6 counsellors, and they agreed to work for a greatly reduced salary of 

() 200 for the summer, In this way the program was able to go forward without too 
great a loss as the financial statement in the appendix shows. 


Training consisted of 5 mornings and 1 evening sessions during the week before 
camp, during which time the counsellors identified over areas they wanted to work 
in. An intensive series of skill sessions, and discussions on child development 
and group process made up the content of the training week. 


After a great deal of effort in promotion, the registration for the first period 
reached 73, giving us an average of 12 children per counsellor, Program highlights 
of the first period included visits to open air pools, picnics on Mt. Royal, visits 
to Old Montreal, the Planetarium, and Place Ville Marie, Perhaps the twin high 
points were a visit for every child to Man and His World on passports supplied by 
the city Welfare Dept., and an outing to Granby Zoo during the last week of the 
period, This, added to a regular program of gym, swimming, crafts and games in 

the Y and local parks, added up to a varied and satisfying program which the child- 
ren enjoyed thoroughly, As in 1967, each day started with approximately one hour of 
French vocabulary which was designed to be of relevance to that day's activities. 
Then the children were encouraged to use their newly acquired vocabulary while 
taking part in the activity. This method was extremely successful in the increas-~ 
ing fluency and comprehension, Much more difficult, however, was the enforcement 
of the French only rule, in planning sessions, where the children were trying to 
plan the following days program, Also the tendency of the children to address each 
other in Inglish, (or several other languages) was very hard to combat, and all 

the counsellors reported extreme difficulty in this area, As a result of these 
difficulties, it would have to be siad that the amount of actual involvement of 
members in planning their own program was much less than is desirable, and while 
the results of the French tests were excellent, much more can still be accomplished 
and even more spectacular results achieved, if the children can be motivated to 
keep to the French only rule. The results of the tests are listed in the second 
appendix of this report. 


The seond period registration was considerably lower (53). This was expected 
because in conversation with first period campers, it was stated many times that 
they wanted to return for the second period but would not be able to because of the 
cost. While every effort was made through calls to parents of these children, to 
assure them that in cases of need, a reduced cost would be arrived at, many would~ 
be campers did not re-register. 


In al1,6 campers in the first period and 15 in the second, were subsidized varying 
amounts, from 2 or 3 dollars, to the full amount of $12. In addition many campers 
were subsidized small amounts for special trips like the Granby Zoo visit, or 

simply for bus fares, etc. While this subsidizing does permit some of the children 
who can not afford it, to participate in our program, it will never be completely 
effective in reaching all the people who are unable to pay, and for 1969, some form 


sil 


of subsidy must be found, As it is, our rates of $12 for 3 weeks of French Day 
Camp compares very favourably with similar ventures in other branches, e.g. $ 29, 
for 2 weeks, but we must face the fact that $ 12 is still too high for families 
whose income in many cases is less than $ 3,000 per year, Wo matter what arrange 
ments for subsidies we make, people are scared right off when they hear the price 
and we never get them all back, 


The second period was extremely successful as regards the improvement in French, and 
the fun the children had. With smaller groups - average size 9, greater personal 
contact was possible between counsellors and campers, and the slightly higher 
average improvement in the test scores bears this out. Highlights of the program 
included a visit to Oka Beach, more visits to Terre des Hommes, and on the last day 
of camp, a production of Cinderella in French, produced, acted and directed and 
staged by the children themselves, 


The show was a great success, and press and television who were in attendance gave 
the show rave reviews } 


Taken all in all, I feel that the goals of the program were all at least partly 
achieved, 


1) Improved French ~ Despite the aforementioned difficulties the results of the 


tests and the assessments of each child leave no doubt that this goal was achieved. 


2) English - French understanding. I feel that this was certainly helped, and was 
demonstrated in the rapport established between French speaking councellors and 
the children, and also by the contacts with French speaking campers in tle Summer 
Fun Club, The older groups became involved in several discussions of the Quebec 
situation, and one counsellor was called upon to give a short course in French- 
Canadian history } 


3) Introduction to French Culture. - This is difficult to achieve in the bilingual 
setting in Montreal, but visits to Old Montreal, record sessions with recordings 
by Gilles Vigneault, etc, and the discussions mentioned above certainly helped. 


4.) Alternative Learning Method - The program again amply demonstrated that children 
learn what they want to learn, when they want to learn it, The counsellors were 
unanimous in stating that the most learning did not come from the formal vocab- 
ulary sessions, but rather from the informal use of the language in conversation 
during enjoyable activity. Children who catie to the French Day Camp only because 
their parents sent them, could not believe that they were meant to have fun and 
in many cases it was only after 5 or 6 days that they lost their suspicion that 
at any moment a formal, repressive, atmosphere might be established. However, 
once this suspicion was gone, children who had flatly refused to use one word of 
French at the start, were begging for more words, and experimenting with phrases 
and sentences. 


5) Learning of New Skills (other than language)- During the 6 weeks, 27 non-swimmers 
from the French Day Camp learned to swim, and 18 passed 1 or more swimming cards. 
This was in a situation where swimming instruction and tests were completely 
optional at the decision of the group itself, and were conducted most of the 
time in French also } Children participated in gymnastics and games throughout 
the program and some samples of their paintings are on display in the Y, Many 


6) 


Bes 


other crafts projects were carried out, and the finished articles taken home. 
Prizes of passports for Man and His World were distributed for the outstanding 
crafts productions at the end of each period, and finally, the effort of all con-~ 
cerned in the production of Cinderella was an example of real learning. 


While the group participation was not as great as had been hoped, as explained 
above, progress was also made in areas of inter-social skills with each group. 
Successful group decision-making and problem solving was achieved with some 
groups, though there were many failures in this area as well. While this goal 
is an integral part of the philosophy of the camp, success is always going to 

be very hard to achieve. The combination of non-directive leadership and having 
to speak French, added to the normal difficulties encountered by children in this 
situation in any language, must of necessity limit our expectations in this area, 


Exciting, worthwhile "fun" experience. Without question, this goal was achieved. 
The number of children who have taken out membership in the Y.M.C.A. is about 

30 at time of writing and more are expected when the fall program starts. The 
attendance figures were high throughout the 6 weeks (see appendix) and several 
parents have phoned to say how much their children enjoyed the program, 


Finally all the counsellors have stated in their reports that they found the 
experience worthwhile, and out of 6 want to come back next year. For the staff 
and the director, it has been an enjoyable, worthwhile, learning experience. 


RECOMMENDATIONS FOR 1969 are:- 


1) Financial support must be found, both to keep the costs to the children,down 
and to enable us to have smaller groups. 


2) Greater co-operation from the schools be sought. No co-operation at all 
was received from the Catholic School Commission, The Protestant School 
Board distributed flyers, and in a few cases teachers discussed the pro- 
gram with their classes, but much more could have been done. 


3) While the employment of French Canadian counsellors is essential to the 
success of the program, as far as possible we should try to have French 
Canadian counsellors who are bilingual. This would be in order to mini- 
mize the very real frustration felt by the counsellors, not in the area 
of teaching French, this was no problem, but in trying to achieve close 
personal relationships with children and dealing with some of the children's 
personal problems. This was very hard to do if the children had to speak 
French at these times, or if the counsellor was not bilingual. (Only 2 
of this years staff were fairly bilingual, none fluently). 


h) Applications for the program were received from all areas of Montreal, 
Laval, the South Shore, and the West Island area. It seems obvious that 
parents in these areas at least, see this program as important and branches 
concerned with these areas should consider running similar programs in 1969. 


whe 
APPENDIX I 


The final financial statement for the 1968 French Day Camp is as follows.’ 


INCOLE: 
Program fees 122h. 
Member ship 20h. 
Total Income 1320. 
EXPENSES: 
Salaries - 6 counsellors @ 200, 1200. 
Supplies, books & equipment 104.75 
Travel & Expenses 57.62 
Promotion 72,00 
& 1430.37 
Deficit $ 110.37 


SUMMARY OF RESULTS OF FRENCH DAY CAMP 1968 


lst Period 
Number of children registered 73 
Number attending more than 5 days 66 
Average score before camp 20.8 
Average score after camp 93.6 
Average improvement 12.8 
% improvement 25 6% 


SUMMARY OF COUNSELLORS ASSESSMENT OF CHILDRENS PROGRESS 


Ex 17 VG 26 G 6 F8 P 9 =Total 66. 
Average attendance (possible 15) 1342 
2nd Period 

Number registered 53 
Number attending more than 5 days 53 
Average score before camp 22.8 
Average score after camp 38.3 
Average improvement 15.5 
% improvement 31.0% 


SUMMARY OF COUNSELLORS ASSESSMENTS OF CHILDRENS PROGRESS 
Ex 10 Va 2h G 13 F 5 P 1l-Total 53 


Average attendance (possible 15) 12.3 


