VW olis tte 


INTERNATIONAL YMCA 
MILE END ALLEY PROJECT REPORT 


SUMMER 1969 


RS. Wilson 
Director 


Why an alley program? 


The community served by International YMCA, primarily the district 
known as Mile End West, is bounded by Hutchison in the west, Van Horne in 
the north, St. Lawrence in the east and Pine avenue in the south. Accord- 
ing to the 1961 census there are close to 10,000 children under the age of 
14 in this area. The southern part of the area is made up of Jeanne Mance 
Park and Mount Royal, but apart from that and one tiny mini - playground 
at the extreme northern limit there are no parks in the entire district. 
Furthermore, although there are parks in the City of Outremont to the west 
and also east of St. Lawrence Blvd., because of the extremely heavy traffic 
on Park Avenue, 5t. Lawrence Blvd. and Mount Royal Avenue, young children 
in the area are effectively cut off from play space and have to play in the 
street. A final point is that St. Urbain Street is itself a very busy North- 
“South traffic artery and all the east west streets are busy throughout the 


day. 


This area is populated largely by immigrants, mostly from Greece, 
and is characterized by poor housing, high unemployment and under employ- 
ment, low wages and inadequate education. Delinquency, school drop-outs, 
and broken families are common and the area has been described in several 


studies as a "priority zone", in terms of social problems and needs. 


Development of the plan 
It was in view of this background that in March 1969 the youth 


department of International YMCA submitted to the city parks dept. a propo- 
sal for a recreation project in the alleys of Mile End West. The plan 


called for the closure of 5 alleys in the district and for the placement of 


sa Des 


two trained and experienced workers in each alley, onz male and one female, 
to organize and supervise recreation for the children living in the surround- 
ing blocks. The proposal called on the City Parks Dept. to provide funds 

to pay the salaries of these ten workers and one supervisor and to provide 
recreation equipment for the 5 units. The YMCA proposed to recruit and train 
the workers, provide them with on the job supervision, and to make available 


the YMCA swimming, pool each afternoon for the use of children in the project. 


This plan was presented to Mr. René Belisle and at the same time 
support was sought and received from lir. Fernand Alie, city councillor for 
the district, and from Police Station 17. Many parents of children in the 
area were already strongly in favour of the proposal as it was in response 
to their fears for their children's safety that the idea arose in the first 


place. 


Problems encountered 

At this point the Cie of our several problems with the inevitable 
bureaucracy of the city rose. The decision to support the project could not 
be made immediately since the final decision had to be made by the executive 
committee. The Parks Dept. was supportive but could not guarantee the pro- 
posal's acceptance, although the need to begin interviewing prospective staff 
was becoming more and more pressing. Some applications for employment had 
been recsived and more were coming in every day. Day camps and other summer 
employers were filling their staff and the need to move while some of the 
more experienced and qualified staff were still available was acute. Con= 
sequently staff was tentatively hired on the chance that the city would not 
support the project but while no committment could be made by the YMCA on 


its own part or on the part of the city, nonetheless the very fact that 


1 
eo 
! 


highly skilled and qualified staff had to refuse other job offers on the 
chance of being hired by the city, created an extremely bad situation. It 

is an indication of their concern for the goals of the project and the wel- 
fare of the children concerned, that 11 first-class workers mostly graduates, 
all with a great deal of experience and excellent references from previous 
employers, took the chance and promised to work in the alley program if and 


when the city made up its mind to hire them. 


The gamble paid off for ten of the eleven. They were finally in- 
formed that they were officially hired on the 2nd of July! By this date 
they had given up any chance of being hired in any other summer job, had 
spent one week in training for the unique demands of the alley program, and 
had spent one full day in the alleys, June 30th, which was the day we had 
informed citizens that the project would start! Had we waited till the city 
, decided to go ahead with the project, none of the children or their parents 
would have known of the project and the staff would have been totally un- 
trained on the 2nd of July - over a week after school closing! How many 
additional traffic accidents this could have led to is of course unknown, 
but on the 30th of June, after a small promotion campaign in the district, 
close to 1,000 children appeared in 5 alleys at 10 A.M. when tho monitors 


arrived for th2 first day's program! 


Continued difficulties 

It will ba noted that the hiring gamble paid off for ten of the 
eleven workers. For one the difficulties were far from over. The City parks 
Dept. has a rule that no two members of the samo family may be hired to work 
for the department at the sama time. -As a result of this ruling one mom- 
ber of our staff team, Miss Ellen Lakoff, ironically one of the most experi- 


Y. 


«hm 


enced of the whole group, was informed on July 2nd that she was unemployed 
ecause her brother was hired! This was the first mention that had been 
made of the rule and she like the rest of the staff could easily have had 
other jobs during June had she wanted. The fact that she particularly 
wanted to work in this district on these kinds of problems, meant that she 
had refused other jobs on the chance of working in Mile End West. An imme- 
diate appeal was made against this ruling and Mr. Parent of the Parks Dept. 
promised to appeal it in view of the special circumstances. This was done 
and the ruling was reversed on July 22nd. Miss Lakoff was paid from that 
date but this meant she had worked for 3 weeks in the project without pay. 


She has still not been paid for this period! 


While I have spelled out the above difficulties there wore many 
more, less serious ones, which space does not permit me to expand on, Generally 
the relationship between the Y and the Parks Dept. was cordial and mtually 
‘helpful and this only serves to underline the rediculous and unnecessary 
nature of some of the problems we had. Equipment supplied to the project was 
ancient and, as an example, many of the balls we received were already burst 
when we got them. Cleaning of the lanes was erratic at best, and only after 
continued complaints was any action taken. Arts and crafts equipmont was 
not made available until the second week of program was almost over and then 
only a basic minimum was granted. At the two co-operative functions involv- 
ing other parks with the alley program, it was obvious to all how poorly our 
children were equipped compared to others. Our staff were not called to sign 
on at the Parks dept. - a procedure we didn't even know was necessary - until 
the day after the program started and consequently they were not paid for the 


training wock and tho first day of program as they could only be paid from 


x Bow 


the day they signed on. This contretemps was finally settled in the last 
wock of the program, but it caused much unnocessary damage to staff morale 
in a situation which was already quite demoralizing due to the depressing 
surroundings. Tho number of children involved cach day varied bstween 

200 and over 700 and this I feel indicates the value of the program to this 
community. The Parks Dept. is to be congratulated for its support of the 
program and it's to bo hoped that next yoar bureaucratic difficulties will 


not be placed in the way of the smooth efficient operation of the program, 


Program highlights 


Typical programs initially were located in the lanes since this 

was the contre for the children to identify with. After three of four 

weeks, regular groupings of children had formed in each lane and conse- 
quontly the groups could move out of th: lane for. a day at a time without 
_ leaving children behind. Thus great use was made of Mount Royal and Jeanne 
Mance Park which could be visited since th2 monitors were ablo to supervise 
strect crossing etc. Use was also made of parks within the city of Outremont 
although several times groups were refused admittance to these latter parks 
as thoy were non-residents of tho city. Seven hundred visits wore made to 
Man & his World, four hundred on visas supplied by the city welfare dopt. 

and three hundred on visas supplied by C.IF.C.F. television. A small party 
of thirty children from tho alleys was entertained on board H.M.C.S. Ottawa 
which was on a visit to Montreal. Within the alleys themselves art exhibits, 
olympic days, games, sports, dancing otc. provided the main program content, 
and ono alley presunted two porformancos of its own bilingual version of 
Cinderella to an audience of parents and children from the other ) alleys. 


Children designed and painted their own scenery and costumes and wrote 


«Gm 


their own Script for this excellent production, Children from the alleys 
joined children from Several parks in a mass field day at Jeanne Mance 
Park and tho final wook Saw them participate in a city wide day-out at St. 
Helen's Island, Many more interesting visits would have been made had 
more staff been availablo, Valuablo assistance was given voluntarily by 
parents and teen=aga volunteers from the YMCA Teen organization but more 
could have been used. Mention has been mada of the shortage of good 
equipment and of course the physical limitations of the alleys themselves 
created many problems. Tho YMCA swimming pool was mad3 availablo for two 
hours each day and children from each alloy had the opportunity of Swimming 
at least once a week, but in tho hot weather this merely served to whet 


their appstites and was not nearly Cnough, 


Social action 

Initial contact was made with quite a few parents by the alley 
workers, Many parents expressed concern for their children's wellbeing, 
particularly in view of the dirt, rats and limited Space in tho alleys, 
One of the most crowded alleys was between Van Horne and Bernard and the 
alley backed on to tho yard of Edward V11 school which was of course locked 
up and surrounded by barbad wire fencing. Aided by alley workers and an 
organizer from the Mile End West Project, concerned parants circulated a 
petition and submitted it to the Protestant School Board of Greater Montroal 
asking that children from tho alley be allowod to play in tho empty school 
yard, Permission was granted and much use was made of tho yard for the rest 
of the summor, At the timo the program was tho subject of very favourable 
reports and editorials in both the Montreal Star and the Gazette, and Channel 


12 television visitod the alleys and filmod the program for its news. The 


-7- 


organization of parents concerned with recreation is still in existence and 
hopes to continue meeting and doveloping plans for community recreation in 
the coming fall and winter. As this organization, now part of the Mile End 
West Project, expands, it is expected to assume a large amount of the re- 
sponsibility for developing plans for next summer and also for prograns 
during the fall, winter, and spring. It is hoped that the joint venture of 
the International YMCA Youth Dept. and tho City Parks Dept. will be repeated 


next year with the Parents committee as a third membor,. 


Staff Evaluation 

Day to day Supervision and co-ordination of programs was handled 
by Miss Gita Dranicky, teacher of physical education at Baron Byng High 
School, and a graduate of McGill University. 


Program staff wore: 


Miss Judy Bucklo B.A. University of Saskatchewan 

Miss Caroline Slater Dowson B.A. Sir George Williams University 
Miss Ellen Lakoff th Year McGill 

Miss Joyce Halpern lth Year McGill 

Miss P, Arthell Hill B.F.A, Sir Goorge Williams University 
Mr. Gary Kobor 3rd year McGill 

Mr. Vince Nigro 3rd year Sir George Williams University 
Mr. David Lakoff 3rd year McGill 

Mr. Bill Giannis ist year Dawson College 

Mr. Arich Bonder B.A., McGill 


Moetings of the total group wore held approximately once a weok 
to develop program ideas, cloar up problems and provide support to the 


staff. Miss Dranicky met caéh staff momber cach day and ono full day 


ie 


training session was hold half way through the program. Tho porformance of 


the workers was, on the whoic outstanding. Needless to say difficulties 
arose and problems had to be dealt with, but in terms of hours worked, child- 
ron reachod and conditions put up with, the overall offort has to bo rated 
most highly. I would have no hesitation recommending these young people 


for any position that involved work with children. 


Recommendations 
1) Hiring Practices 

If similar joint ventures are to be undertaken in futuro it is 
essential that fairer hiring procedures be developed for specially selected 
staff. While the present procedures may be adequate for regular park and 
playground monitors, thoy aro painfully inadequate if staff with special 
qualifications and skills are to be attracted to special projects such as 
the alley program. 

In the specific case of Miss Ellen Lakoff it is hoped that as a 
result of reading this report, the recreation dept. will sce its way to 
pay hor for the weeks she worked and did not get paid for - the period 
from July 2nd = July 22nd which by my calculation amounts to 97.5 hours 


at 1.75 per hour - a total of $170.62. 


2) School yards 


Since there are several school yards situated in this district, it 
is foit that better use could be made of thom than is presently being made. 
Tho installation of playground cquipment, swings, sco-saws, climbing frames 
atc. and the provision of playground monitors would be a wolcome step towards 
solving somo of the problems of the childron during the summor months. Tho 


Alley program demonstrated the need for parks or playgrounds and provided a 


a Fm 


temporary, unsatisfactory solution, It should not be scen as an answor to 
the problom in itself - to anyone who has walked through tho alleys in Mid- 


July the reason will be obvious, 


3) Mini-parks 

The only long term solution to tho problem of youth recreation in 
the district is the construction of playgrounds, Vacant space is ata pre- 
mium but careful study should be made of available spaco and of what has 


been accomplished in other communities with mini-parks, school yards, otc. 


4) Budget 


In any future joint project, some small budget should be made avail-~ 
able for supplies, bus rentals ctc. This would pormit greater flexibility 


and a more satisfying program. 


5) Equipment 


Condition of the equipment uscd this summer has been montioned. This 
needs to be improved and mich more art and crafts cquipment is needed. Only 
a fow games can really bo successful in the alleys so mora emphasis should 


be placed on creative work, 


6) . After school program 


Since most of the families in the commnity have both parents work= 
ing, virtually the same need exists cach day after school as existed during 
the summer. Discussions are under way between YMCA staff, school teachers 
and principals, parents and children, with a view to sotting up a recreation 
program after school in two of tha schools in tho district. The initial work 
on this project will be done by voluntcors but it is recommended that the 


Parks Dept. study this plan with a view to financing it in tho future. A 


« 16 = 


major cffort in this ficld could do a lot to reduce traffic fatalities and 


juvonile delinquency in the cistrict. 


Conclusion 

I would like to thank Mr. Marcel Parent for his co-operation through= 
out the summer. Reference to problems made throughout this report is ine 
tended as constructive: criticism of a very exciting example of agency/city 
co-operation and should not be taken as personal criticism of Mr. Parent or 
of his department. In supporting the Mile End Alley Project the Parks Dept. 
rosponded to needs as identified by citizens of the commnity. Only by 
many more such responses can the problems of the inner city be attacked and 


eventually defoated, 


FACTS & FIGURES 


Program commenced Juno 30th 
Program ended August 22nd 
No. of days of program 38 
Days cancelled due to rain 1 
Average total daily attendance 303 
_ Total attendance 11,518 
Total attendance in YMCA pool . 252l7 
Man & his World visas used 700 


Number of different children 
involved throughout summer Approximately 700 


