Lol-Canv(y- Pro) -| 


LES VOYAGEURS DE LA VERENDRYE 


DIRECTOR'S REPORT 1970 


TAFF & TRIPS: 


Another good Summer for Les Voyageurs. Paul Mongraw, 
Paul Heyer, Walter Gordon, Pip MacKenzie and Gary Maavara all are 
recommended for rehire if they should want to work for us again. 


In spite of an extremely wet first term all trips 
were successful in the end. Paul Heyer and his crew went down the 
Capitachouan to Le Domaine and were trucked back to camp. Paul 
Mongraw and Walter Gordon both took their crews Northwest into the 
Grand Lake Victoria area. 


Second term Mongraw went to Ottawa Lake, an area the 
camp hadn't used for several years- The entire crew was extremely 
pleased with the trip. The area is recommended. Heyer had a 
fishing crew and he brought them up the Camachigama to Indian 
Lake. Gordon and his crew went up the Capitachouan to Lake Moore. 
Heyer attempted to reach the Chochocouane River but the creek 
access was too dry. This is probably the most beautiful river in 
the area and a new and more reliable access to it must be found. 


TWO WEEK CAMPER: 


First period we had a two-week camper. He joined 
Paul Heyer's crew at mid trip re-supply- The camper was particul- 
arly difficult and this crew was particularly close knit so the 
experience was fairly unfortunate. However, even under the best 
of circumstances, I believe it is silly to add a member to a crew 
in the middle of a trip. I opposed the idea of two-week campers 
from the time it was first suggested. The two-week camper was our 
only "escapee". I am still opposed to the idea! 


FOOD: 


The food list was pretty well based on the previous 
year and it was good with the following exceptions: 


We tend to overbuy in the bulk items 
ieee rolled oats, spaghetti, sugar 
and flour - leading to considerable 
waste. 


We still need a palatable dessert 
pudding. 


win 


MAINTENANCE & REPALR: 


The cabin re-assembled by Blake and the base attend- 
ants last year was roofed and a door installed. (A rather large 
tree had fallen on it over the winter) Normal repairs to benches, 
etce, were made. 


A new garbage pit will have to be dug next year. 


The dock is still sound and with a few repairs, e-g- 
boards changed, will probably last several more years. 


Several dead trees were cleared from base camp but 
many more remain that present a menace. A chain saw borrowed from 
Kamp Kanawana for a few days (at change-over, perhaps) would aid 
immensely in this task. 


The campsites used underwent normal improvements and 
are in good condition. However, more permanent toilet and garbage 
pits should be dug on these sites. 


The base camp stove is on its last legs and during 
the course of next Summer a replacement should be found if possible. 


FURTHER RECOMMENDATIONS : 


Over the Summer the staff have found the necessity 
of the following: 


- On re-supply the director should bring, 
besides the base camp first aid kit, 
spare paddles, packs, complete canoe 
repair kit, ax handle. 


- Trippers should be equipped with C-I-P.- 
road maps. 


- We need a new supplier of paddles - the 
toys bought by campers from Kamp Kanawana 
were entirely inadequate. 


- We need new maps of all sectors. 
- The list of things to bring needs to be 


trimmed down to reflect the campers real 
needs rather than to comfort mother. 


wim 


It has been suggested that Les Voyageurs de la 
Verendrye 4§ we know it be discontinued; that the operation be 
moved to Kamp Kanawana, and that the trips be reduced to two weeks. 
I am personally violently opposed to any change of this nature. 


Les Voyageurs, running at capacity, shows profit. 
(Even this year, with attendance down and extraordinary truck 
expenses, we broke even or slightly better) It seems to me that 
we should be striving to bring up attendance rather than thinking 
of abandoning this type of camping. 


Twelve years years ago the Montreal YMCA decided to 
get into the area of canoe and canvas camping offering trips of 
one month and three weeks in Quebec's wilderness. Since that time 
over 500 teenage boys have enjoyed all the pleasure and the 
character building benefits such trips offer. Most have rounded 
off their skills to the point where they could take extended canoe 
trips on their own. Mest have gained a deeper and more understand- 
ing love of the wilderness. 


Ig this no longer important? 


The thousands of man hours that went into making each 
camper's stay at Les Voyageurs as happy and successful as possible, 
are these no longer important. 


The suggestion has been made that this type of camping 
no longer responds to a need among our teenaged community. No one 
who saw the lads up there this Summer could believe that. No one 
who has left our city and lived under canvas in our beautiful 
wilderness for a month and felt all the muck and grime and tensions 
of the city slip away from him could entertain such a thought. 


A camp like Les Voyageurs is needed and desired today 
more than ever. In fact, there is not a damn thing wrong with the 
camp except that not enough money is spent on it. With proper 
promotion the camp would have a waiting list. 


Les Voyageurs should have its own promotion brochure - 
not be a back page item on Kamp Kanawana's. This should be sent 
to, among others, all ex seniors at Kamp Kanawana of the last two 
years. We have had campers from New York, Boston, Chicago and 
other U-S.-. cities. A five line advertisement in the major paper 
of even these three cities would reach millions of potential 
campers. 


Avis 


I'm not a promotion expert but there are some around. 
Surely our Board members can come up with someone to give us guid- 
ance in this field. 


Once we've attracted capacity attendance we must keep 
it. To do that we must offer the most excellent canoe and canvas 
camp available anywhere! 


- Our fleet must be renewed at the 
rate of two canoes per year. 


- Our truck changed every two years. 


- Tents must be checked, repaired 
and/or replaced every spring. 


- All cook kits should be complete 
and in good repair. 


- Our staff must be the bast picked 
and best trained anywhere. 


- The location of the camp must, in 
the near future, be changed. 


In conclusion, we must be prepared, over the next 
two years, to spend; to spend time and energy in revamping Les 
Voyageurs into what it potentially is, the best camp of its nature; 
to spend the necessary money to bring it up to par and to tell the 
world about it. This undoubtedly means the operation is going into 
the red for the first two years of its renewed existence, but from 
then on we will have a profitable camp, running at capacity - the 
best tripping camp anywhere. 


I would welcome the opportunity to meet with the Board 
Or with any Board member to discuss the contents of this report. 
I am prepared, at the request of, and in cooperation with the Board, 
= prepare a comprehensive design for a renewed Les Voyageurs de la 
Yerendrye 


Respectfully submitted, 


Yves St. Pierre, 
Director '70. 


