BACKGROUND ON MOVE OF YMCA ALLEY 
PROGRAM TO EDWARD VII SCHOOL 


General 


International YMCA is located at Park Avenue and St. Viateur, 
about 23 blocks away from Edward VII School. The district, known 
as Mile End West, is bounded by Van Horne on the North, St. Lawrence 
on the East, Pine Avenue on the South and Hutchison Street on the West. 


Mile End was identified in 1966 in a study by the Conseil des 
Oeuvres as one of the seven "grey areas” in Montreal. It is an 
area of poverty, high unemployment and under-employment, poor 
housing and few recreation outlets. It exhibits most of the cha- 
racteristics of an “inner city” area, i.e. broken families, high 
crime and delinquency rates, high rate of street accidents, school 
drop-outs, youth gangs, drinking and drug problems, and more insi- 
diously, feelings on the part of the population, of futility and 
despair at their inability to affect their environment or cope 
with stresses of 20th century urban life. 


Role of the YMCA, Past and Present 


The YMCA has been a part of this community for many years, 
originally North Branch, and since 1951 as International YMCA, due 
to its efforts to relate more directly to the largely immigrant 
multi-ethnic population. The branch is known throughout the city 
for its achievements in the field of language instruction and every 
year more than 2000 students of up to 47 nationalities receive ins- 
truction in either French or English. 


In 1966, as part of a city-wide re-assessment of the Y's 
role in the community, the branch re affirmed its commitment to 
serve the Mile End area, as its top priority and accepted a strong 
recommendation from a research committee studying the area, that 
the role of the International Branch become that of a community 
development agency rather than as in the past, a membership- 
serving orgenization. Traditional programs have been maintained 
but they attract, at least in youth programs, four members from 
Park Extension end other areas to everyone attracted from Mile 
End. 


eee © BOO w HOS sealie 


Inter~Agency Co-operation 


One of the primary functions of an agency concerned with com- 
munity development should be to work for the maximum utilization of 
existing community facilities and the development of co-operative 
relationships between institutions in the community. Progress has 
been made in involving churches in Mile End in co-operative projects 
with youth and adults. 


More and more university students are seeing a role for themselves 
in the affairs of the community and in view of the new approach of 
this branch and its commitment to work for better conditions in a 
deprived area, are coming forward to volunteer their time and ex- 
perience to work on the problems of youth. Many of these volunteers 
have considerable training and experience and are highly qualified 
for the work. Also, ways are opening to provide agencies working 
in the community with the resources available in university social 
science departments. 


Learnings from the alley project - 1969 


One of the main reasons for the turnout of 700 children for this 
program, was found to be that the program took place right in the 
children's daily milieu. The reluctance of people in this area to 
participate in programs in buildings like the YMCA (quite apart from 
restricted space available and relevance of program) lies in the 
fact that they had to leave their regular surroundings and take the 
often anxiety-producing step of entering what amounts to a foreign 
institution which they have never identified as being concerned with 
them. This applies especially to children whose reception in buildings 
other than their own home and school is often hostile. 


The project took place in 5 closed-off lanes which were just 
tolerable as playgrounds during the summer months, but, of course, are 
of no use at all during the other seasons. The Alley Project was 
aimed at providing recreation and supervision for children who other- 
wise would have been on the streets all summer. But the problem 
exists during the school year, from 3:30 till 6:00 p.m., since many 
mothers in that area are working and children are on the streets 
from the time school gets out until parents come home from work. 


6C SHES THOS EOeC CaS 


Physical Recreation 


Student-volunteers collaborate with Physical Education staff 
in providing supervision for after-school games and sports prograns, 
thus making extra-curricular participation available to more and 
more children. This focus is seen as complementary to programs 
run by the Physical Education Department which may already be 
taking place. 


Arts and Creative Work 


Art and drame students set up programs on children's creativity 
and its development. 


Group Programs 


A primary need for children in this age range is for participation 
in group situations with their peers. It has been found that children 
as young as 8 years old are capable of making considered decisions in 
groups, on topics that concern them. Thus a suggested program 
thrust would be in group centred rather than activity centred areas-- 
small groups of children working with an adult advisor (student- 
volunteer) to plan their own activities. Such activities could 
involve tours and visits to places of interest, museums, planetariun, 
etc, and the YMCA swimming pool is available free for the use of 
such groups. The advisor's task is to help children actively develop 
their own programs around their own interests and needs. 


Tutorials 


Senior university students working on specific Subject problems 
with children referred to them by teachers. 


French and English instruction could be a major part of this 
in our area, with language specialists in the school directing 
children to the program and working as consultants with student- 
instructors. 


mia 

For further information please contact: Bob Wilson, Youth Program 
Director, . 
International YMCA ~ 271-2548 
or 
Bill Sher 
Metropolitan Public Relations 
YMCA - 849-5331 


