MILE END WEST PROJECT 


Progress Report for the Period 


October 1, 1969 - March 31, 19790 


Kerry W. Johnston 


Project Director 


Project Title:-- MILE END WEST PROJRCT 


1. Muaber $54-1<2 
2. Date submitted 6/9/69 


3, Summary of previous years work plan. 


1) SBetablish a day care centre with enphasis on parent participation 
in administration and decision-making. . 


2) Establish an overall Greek parents association. 


3) Increase contacts with tenants with the objective, the estabdlish- 
ment of a tenant's association. : 


4) Develop a group of Greck citizens to establish eae Greek histoty 
and mythology program for elementary school children. 


5) A group of residents will study problems that exist in the medi- 
cal services area, : 


6) Develop consumer and legal aducation prograns. 


7) Work with a group of citizens concerned with the lack of race 
reational space. 


8) Gather data on local employment conditions. 

9) Contact Greek regional associations to study Greek probles. 
10) Enlist support of sympathetic Greek professionals. 

11) Develop a Greek information and referral service. 


12) Establish programs with locel achoole that will give teachers 
a better understanding of the problems of the immigrant child. 


4. Progress Made: 


The Project has been successful in initiating a developmental 
process within the Greek immigrant community. However, the extent of 
thip success can only be measured in relation to the hostility and sis- 
trubt thet characterize this community. While the Project staff were weil 
aware of this, its extent and the degree of alienation from the total 
society were far greater than had been anticipated. 


. Steff efforte have been directed to developing a Project identi- 
ty in the community. This has required carefully planned actions that 
take into account the many potentially divisive forces that are in a large 
part the cause of the existing disunity. 


ale 


The oucceso of these efforts can be seen in the extent to which the 
Project 40 identified ao an essential part ef the community. 


A 

‘ Disevseions in the traditional meeting places, barber shops, pool 

bonus rostaurents, frequently revolve eround some aspect of the Project. 
e@ increased uoe of the talcphone information service (average 100 calis 

aweek ), The number of people who congregete at the offices of the Pro- 


ject, all indicate that the otaff efforts have been effective. 


: While 4t 4 too soon to state that a unified community exiets, the 
basic elements for its development are emerging. For that group of people 
whe are closest to the Project, a re-definition of themselves in relation 
to the total society is discarnible. This re-definition involved a 
realistic statenant of life goale and a clearer view of themselves vis «a 
vis Quebec and Canadian society. It involves recognition of «a "ghetto" 
existence and a desire to nove avay from its negative and restrictive 
especto. 


Specific progress in relation to previous work plan: 


1) The eotablishnent of a day care centra has. been identified by many 
as a basic need, primarily in order to increase the economic base of 
the family unit. Vdnancing to available, resident interest is high, 
indigenous qualified staff have been found, but all efforte founder 
because of a lack of adequate space, Approximately ten buildings 
have been considered, but all have failed to meet the required city 
fire and health regulations. Wegotiations sre presently in process 
for what may be the only acceptable bedilding in the conaunity. 


2) A Greek Parents and Cusrdians Association has been established and is 

currently applying for incorporation. The Association hes a neuber- 
, ship of 2,500 fanilies, with local committees in nine schools. Sach 
' committee appeints two delegates to the Association council. 


4 Public meetings have been held in all locel schools with ea 
average attendance of 290. Tho Council has met with School Board officialae 
90 several occasions and one of tho results has been the eppointaent of 

@ Greek-speskins teacher to act as liaison between the community and the 
local schools. Tho main aspect of this position ie to interpret indivi- 
dual school problems to concerned parents. 


' The Assoctation did nuch soul-searching in relation to Bill 63, 
end finally came out in support of the Bill. This has led to a deter- 
bination to see that their children receive the best possible French, a6 
well as English {notruction. This ie a najor development when one consi~ 
@ere the hostility that oxieted a mere six months ago. This sunser the 
Association will work with the Project to provide a French-oriented summer 
recrestion pregrom. 


WEP ED Eta hy 


A tutorial program has been initiated. Staffed by volunteers 
from the teaching profession and university students, this program is 
filling the role of Greek-speaking parents who are unable to assist their 
children with school work. 


3) While there has been contact with many tenants, housing problems have 
not been indicated as a high priority. Individual rental problems 
have been taken to the Rental Control Board and information concern~ 
ing leases and housing conditions has been widely circulated. 


The development of an organization is made e¢7fficult because of the 
type of housing (triplex) and the fact that many tenants have a 
gentleman's agreement with landlords in respect to having more than 
one family per house. 


4) The development of Saturday morning Greek classes has been highly 
successful. Approximately 300 children attend these classes and 
teachers are volunteers. 


Greek classes played an important part in the Project identity- 
building, and continue to serve as a prime time for the establishment 
of contacts. The Project office on Saturday morning has been aptly 
compared to a Greek village water pump. 


5) Important data has been gathered in regard to the medical needs of 
the community. The rapidly increasing rate of mental illness, the 
sickness due to inadequate diet adjustment, the difficulties of 
childbirth for women who suffered from malnutrition as children, an 
increasing number of criminal abortions are facts that make this 
a major area of concern. Data has also been collected from local 
hospitals that indicate they are unable to deal with the problems 
of the Greek immigrant. 


A group of Greek professionals have worked with the Project staff 
to develop a concept for a community clinic. This clinic will 
provide the essential services and will act as a filter for the 
hospitals. The clinic will be controlled by the local residents. 


6) Consumer and legal problems have been developed and promoted through 
articles in the bulletin “Echo” These articles have been well- 
received by the community and the number of consumer problems brought 
to the Project's attention has greatly increased. 


7) Work began with a group of residents during the late summer. The 
group never became effective and died from a lack of interest. This 
was an attempt to work with a multi-ethnic group and besides the lang- 
uage problem, the antagonisms and hostilities that were most appar~ 
ent, piayed a major part in its failure. 


1. See appendix 1. i 


8): Research hes beon Anithated into employment conditions and many 
individual centacts have been established, however, to this point 
thera hac been no dosire indicated to initiate any action. The 
unenploymont situation and the threat employers hold over the workers 
noke thio o particularly difficult area.. 


9) Infornal contact hao been established with many of the regional 
associations. The associations contacted sre most supportive of 
the Projest and its various aspects. 


10) A nost revarding development has been the support thet hae come fron 
Grack profecetonals, academics and students, Many are a4nvolved in 
aopecto of tho. Project, and they provide a large pool of dependabdie 
and okilied volunteers. 


11) Tho inferndtion and referral service has developed to the extent that 
Profoct ctaff now find f¢ difficult not to become completely 
engaged in casawork. Relations have been established with various 
agecacies, aad professionals, and use is now being made of these 
resources. Wovever, Project involvement is still required ae the 
majority of cliente are wuneble to speak French or Boglish and few 
agoneies can function in Greek. 


5. ModigientLens: 


fho only med4fication hes bean in terns of attempting to work 
simultancously with che various ethnic groups thet reside in the area. 
The Project svbmicsion indicated that the objective was to develop the 
means to integration iato the totel community, and this remains so. How- 
ever, exporioncea has indicated that it 4a not possible to do so by attenpt- 
ing to unite the groups of the local érea. 


: Thoro ore caveral factors that make thie impossible. First, the 
concept of a comeunity exioting in this area, is not shared by the resi~ 
dents. To Ganndian-born residents, the concept of community extends far 
beyond the limits of Milo End Weat. To the immigrant residents, the 
concept ef coununity is based on the ethnic fact. Any program that attempts 
to ignore this fact, is bound to be ineffective. 


Second, the vast majority of Greek immigrants are unable to 
communicate adoquately in French or English, and so language presente & 
major obstacic. 


: Third, it ouet be realised that the immigrant resident is isol- 
ated and alienated fron the society in which he is living. The present 
conditions in Quabec only tend to heighten the anxiety that is normal with 
cultural cdjuctcent. This fact becomes further exaggerated by the fact 
that Greek inoigvants now dominate the ares both in terms of population 


ake 


and business services. Both the French and English residents of the area, 
who tend to have lived there for more tnan one generation, are resentful 
of this aud frequently display open hostility. 


i Finally, schools, welfar: agencies and hospitals indicate that the 
Greek immigrant community is in the most desperate of situations. The 
illness both physical and mental, the cowplcte ignorance of institutions 
and the lack of leadership and organization, combine to create @ situation 
which is urgent but unapproachable througi traditional means. 


In consideration of these factors the Project concept has been 
modified go that resources may be directed to solving the lack of leader- 
ship and organization within the Greek immigrant community. It must be 

mphasized that this is a modification in terms of approach only. The 


e 

basic objectives remain intact and the necessity of having the immigrant 
recognize and define himself in terms of the Quebec majority if he is to 
successfully integrate, remains basic to the Project concept. : 


-5- 


nL 


2. See appendix 2. 


6. 


Work Plan for next Fiscal Year: 


:' 


3. 


ll. 


12. 


Work will continue with the Parents’ Federation, strengthening 
the organization, assisting them isolate causes of specific 
problems and taking actions designed to ensure that the local 
schools provide an education equal to that in any other part 
of the city. 


The day care centre will be put into operation and a parents 
sesociation devsloped to take full control. 


Funds will be sought for the medicel clinic and if successful 
it will be in operation. 


The monthly magazine will be developed so that it becomes 
self-sustaining. It will continue to function primarily as 
an informative paper but greater emphasis will be given to 
the effects provincial and national events have on the 
damigrant conmunity. 


Specific programs will ke developed to promote understanding 
of the French mejority. 


Consumer education pregrams will be developed and the possib=- 
lity of developing active consumer groups explored. 


Emphasis will be given to developing more positive action in 
the field of employment, working conditions, etc. 


The information and referral service will be further developed 
and contacts established with more agencies and resources. 


Efforts will be made to make available some form of legal aid. 


The tutorial program will be further developed in cooperation 
with the Greek Parents and Guardians Association. 


A group will develop recreatioaal, programs for the children 
of the comnunity. 


The various erganizations that exist within the immigrant 
community will develop a coordinating council. 


Communication will be established between the psople with 
whom the Project is working, and the Continuing Education 
Department of the Y¥.M.C.A. in order to make language classes 
more available to local residents. 


TTS RESIS OP EPR EA EN IRR EEA CREE 


3. See appendices 2 & 3. 


af@ 


The enumerated items represent specific plans for the coming 
year, but in conjunction with these, the Project staff will work to increase 
the acceptance of the Project and its goals, to develop greater unity with- 
in the community, and to take all opportunities to have the immigrant 
relate to the total society into which he must integrate. 


APPENDIX I 


————————— 


The manner and the relative speed with which the Project 
has been accepted within the community, can be attributed to 
two major factors. First, the general concern and frustration 
with the social and economic conditions and second, the ability 
of the Project to integrate into the informal but effective lines 
of communication that exist within the community. 


Communication has been the key to the Project's develop~ 
ment and will be crucial to the eventual integration of this 
presently isolated and alienated ethnic group. The frequent 
request for basic information and the tension that was develop- 
ing from inaccurate information, provided the motivation for the 
establishment of a monthly bulietin. 


a) Objectives: 


1. To make available to the Greek immigrant community 
news of relevant Canadian political and social develop- 
ments. 


2. To provide the basic knowledge that is necessary to a 
full comprehension of the above developments. 


3. To inform the community on matters which will enable 
them to better adjust to this society and of the laws 
and institutions provided to protect individuals from 
exploitation and injustice. 


4. To assist in the development of an effective ethnic 
organization. 


b) Need: 


The Greek immigrant community, the most isolated ethnic 
group in the City of Montreal, is largely ignorant of thea ser- 
vices available to them. There is almost a complete lack of 
awareness of laws governing working conditions, landlord-leasee 
relationships, sales contracts, ete. In addition to the 
ignorance of specific details which effect everyday life, there 
is a great gulr in the understanding of affairs in the province 
and tiie nation. This state of affairs only serves to maintain 
the isolation and heighten the alienation of the immigrant. 


Three newspapers are published in Creek. Their focus is 
almost completely on developments within the political scene of 
Greece. Very little attention is given to local developments and 
often the information given only serves to create alarm. 


whe 


, 


i No space is devoted to providing the immigrant with the basic 
information 60 desperately required. 


The ethnic presse can be viewed ae negative forces in the adjustneats 
that are required to a very different society. The emphasis given to news 
from Greece only prolongs the isolation of the immigrant. Fortunately, 
the Greek press is not widely read and the political base from which they 
work has led to the development of a credibility gap. 


i. c) Organization: 

i At present, Echo ia completely controlled by the staff of 
the Project. One member, devotes his time to researching and translating 
articles, and then, the total staff team acts as the editorial board. 


The etaff, however, do not act in a vacuum, as the many : 
contacts the Project has with the local residents serve as & most efficient 
feed-back system. 


As with all other programe initiated through the Project, 
the objective is to have the bulletin completely in the hands of the 
immigrant community. With the development of a community structure, Echo 
will become the property of the Greek immigrant. 


d) Response: 


‘ The overwhelmingly positive response to Echo has dexon~ 
strated that it is serving a major purpose. Circulation, has increased 
within three months from 1,500 to 3,000, and will reach 5,000 within the 
next few months. This increase 49 a result of the requests from indivi-~ 
djeals in the community. Significantly, doctore, barbers and restaurants 
have asked for copies and the bulletin is read and discussed in all the 
traditional meeting places. 

3 The bulletin has had a profound effect on the information 
and referral service provided by the Project. Telephone calls have 
facreased from 15-20 a day, to more than 100, and visits to the Project 
office have increased. As a result of this increased contact, many cases 
of discrimination and injustice are being investigated. 


-2- 


APPENDIX 2. 


uebec, the Immigrant, the Project: 


The Project's stated objective is the integration of the ethnic 
group. Integration in Quebec requires an understanding of the lang- 
uage of the majority and identification within that cultural milieu. 
Therefore, it is obvious that the Project staff must take all opport- 
unities to encourage the immigrant to accept and participate in Quebec 
society. 


In deciding how this integration is to be achieved, two factors 
have to be considered. Consideration must be given to the present 
existing conditions in which the immigrant and the host exist, and to 
the desired result of integration. 


First, the Greek immigrant is extremely threatened and perplexed 
by developments within Quebec. As stated earlier, this ethnic group 
is barely coping wita the neoeded adjustments and in addition, is placed 
under greater tension by forces which view the immigrants only 4s 
political pawns. The working class Quebecois reject the immigrants 
with theix differeut values and life-styles, and view them only as 
potential job usurpers. Political leaders say they are welcome in 
Quebec, yet they are discriminatcd against in such basic services as 
medicine. Spokesmen from the established Greek community tell them 
the law says they must learn French and that if they do not, they 
will suffer. 


Under such conditions, tie immigrant quite naturally becomes 
hostile and resentful. The tendency is to reject the present develop~ 
ments on a purely emotional basis and thus increase the isolation. 


Second, it is obvious that integration requires more than lang~ 
uage skills. If the only desire is to have the immigrant speak French, 
then, under sufficient pressure they will do so, but they will never 
be true citizens of Quebec, and the ghetto will become a permanent 
reality. 


Integration that will lead to the destruction of ethnic ghettoes 
and the full participation and contribution of the ethnic group, can 
be acnieved. It requires a realistic view of the present conditions 
and the support of the ethnic group as they struggle to ensure 
equality and just treatment. It also requires understanding and en- 
couragement as the immigran devclops a rational vicw of the host 
socicty. 


In a society concerned with its future development, only the 
latter approach is acceptable. It is this approach that the Project 


= 


has adopted. Through stressing a rational response and playing down 
emotions, tie staff has been successful in developing an acceptance 
of such changes as Bill 63. By introducing programs that expose the 
immigrant to the wealth of the surrounding culture, the immigrant 

is more likely to make the decisions tnat will lead to succzssful 
integration. An integration that results in participation and the 
contribution of his own culture and experiences. 


