to" 


MILE END WEST YOUTH PROJECT 


PROPUSAL 


Henry ROzenblat 
October, 1971 


PREFACE 


The entire field of youtt work in Canada, at ths present, to 
be centred on alienation and drug abuse. In attempting to 
deal with the problems confronting youth, many well meaning 
social scientists and institutions have fallen into the (at 
times not so apparent) trap of treating symptomatic behaviour 


rather than the underlying malaise. 


The youth Department of the International Y.M.C.A. has first 
hand experience of living in the trap. Through operating 

a drop-in santos Hie three years, we have come to the realiza= 
tion that professionals dealing with the problems of youth 
must confront the very basis of the problems; these are 

most often found outside of any of the existing youth sub= 


cultures. 


Tt is for this reason that we decided to approach the problems 
foced by youth in Mile End Wast not as problems unto them-= 
selves, but 2s indicators of a more prevalent climate in the 


community. 


The Mile End West Youth Project Proposal must be viewed as 


an extension of the presently operating Mile End West Project. 


I. Introduction: 


The International YMCA, located in the heart of the ifile 
End West district’, has been for some time now involved with 
the youth of this area, Over the past years, the agency's 
programming has attempted to fill a void in the fields of 
recreation, informal education, and the evolution of leadership 


in the community. 


The void has been growing larger. Traditional programming can 
no longer satisfy the needs of youth with whom we have contact. 
Properly organized swimming and basketball have little 
relevance to youth who are detached from their schools, have 

no prospect for stimulating work, and whose daily concerns ars 
primarily centred around survival in a community which lacks 
the institutions that could possibly assist in the total 


dsvalopment, of tha members of the community. 


At this stage, it is necessary to clarify that the community 


to which I refer is a geographic one. The residents of this 


1 
Mile End West is that area of Montreal bounded by Pine Avenue 
to Van Horne Avenue and St. Denis to Hutchison Avenue, 


community are Greek, Italian, Portuguese, Polish, French, and 


English. 


Tt is these othnic groups which have traditionally perceived 

Mile End West as a transitional areca. During tho past ten years, 
2 

statistics indicate that the area has become a permanent 


residence for a groat many who settle there. 


" In Canadian cities the ethnic pattern is 
more varisd and less easily linked to urban 
decisions. Many cities are predominantly of 
either French or British descent and even in 
those cities with largo numbers of Now 
Canadians the problems of mtual cultural 
adjustment are not easily associated with 
urban growth and development programmes. 
The sources of dissatisfaction and stross 
are therefore varied and complex, difficult 
to identify and genoralize. Many of the 
Canadian immigrants ary already middle= 
class, white-collar families who disappear 
rapidly into tho suburbs. Othors, of half 
a dozen different national origins, are 
upwardly mobile, often achisving considvre 
ablo sconomic success within a fow yoars. 
They obscure the poverty, exploitation and 
acculturation difficulties of the remainder. 
Only when the successful and unsuccessful 
nowcOmers becoms sorted out, economically, 
socially and spatially, will those problems 
play a significant role in urban growth, " 


2 é 
Research Departmnt, Montroal Council of Social Agenciss, Sixty 
Major Study Arcas and Thoir Comparative Socio-Economic Profiles 


in Metropolitan Lontreal. (July 1968) Study arsa no. 21 


3 
James and Robert Simmons, Urban Canada, The Copp Clarke 


Publishing Company, (1969) Pg. 12. 


Because of its previously transient nature, and low cconomic 
level, the area's institutions greatly noglect the needs of 
its members. Tho project shall define itself as the community 
animator organizing the youth of the various ethnic groups in 
an attempt to make tho local institutions work for the area 


citizens, 


Tis 
Theoretical Framework and 


Statement of Problem 


The Mile Bnd West district is ono of tho grey arcas of Montreal, 
Fifty-eight por cont of the families in the arca carn less than 


L 
$000 par yoar. 


Immigrant children have adopted either English or French as 
their second languags. Tho schools are poorly equipped to handles 


these childron and the resulting effect is an extremely high 


ly 
Research Department, Montreal Council of Social Agencies, Sixty 
Major Study Arcas and Their Comparative Socio-Economic Profiles 


in iiotropolitan Montreal. (July Study arca no. ol. 


rate of high school, and in many cases, primary school drop outs. 


Ton per cont of all Montreal youths aro attending high schools. 
In Mile End West the porcentage is 36756 Four por cent of 
Montreal youths are in postesecondary schools, whilo in Mile 


fné West only one por cent attend thes:. 


An added aroa of stress for tho youths of Mile End West is the 
cultural duality that oxists botwoon the home and tho Canadian 
institutions in tho aroa,. The value systom that exists within 

the family structurs is often rejected by ths young who are 


in tho process of becoming Canadian. 


Tt is within this framework that the project staff undertook 
to sxamine tho problematic situation within the commnity and to 


apply the concepts of Community Dovolopment. 


The process of Community Development is an evolutionary one. 


An inherent part of this process ia ths historical and 


. 

2 

Research Department, Montreal Council of Social Agencics, Sixty 
Major ancy Aroas and Thoir Comparative Socio-Economic Profiles 
in Metropolitan Montreal. (July udy arca no, Zhe 


cultural understanding of the community. In the paragraphs that 
follow wo will outline the historical and cultural factors alive 
tn Mile End Wost and the effect that thess have had on tho develop= 


6 
mont of our theoretical framework. 


Tho initial stimlant to youth work in communities in and around 
Montreal was the hsavy incidents of drug abuss. Our responso 
followsd ths pattern of opsning a drop-in centre and familiarizing 


oursolves with the lifustyle of the area's youth. 


‘In this community, wo porceivad that the youth who madc uso of 
the contre held little hope for the future and led a noo = 
existentialist lifestylo. Dropping out of school was the 
pattern rather than the exception as wore wolfare and Low incoms 
familios, and drugs wero one way of at least montally gotting 
out of that anvironment and focling a part of somo thing that 


is happsning in America, 


6 
For definition of Community Development, sau Mile ind West 
Proposal, Appendix, Page5 (Approach). 


Be 


In that perspsctive, wo percsivad drugs as boing symptomatic 
of the general situation which these youth find themselves in 
the commnity. Ruruing tho drop-in contre was just not onough. 

Ws wore providins a service rather than actively working on 


a solution, 


At this stage wo decided to focus our attention on issuvs 
relevant to the youths with whom we had contact. Our 
relationship with thom took on the added dimension of jointly 
trying to understand and botter the conditions within the 


community. 


Since we wore locking for the solution, the next stage was to 
examine all tho contributing historical and cultural factors. 


After assossing some of these factors, we decided to adopt a 


now aporoach, Closing the drop-in csntre, which in itself created 


hostility botwoon the statf and the teens, followod. 


To try and move through this hostility, wo began talking to the 
youths about issuus which by then we identified as relevant 
40 then: omployment, high school sducation and recreation 

i p) 5 


in the community. Having sp3nt most of their livas subducd by 


6. 


theso institutions, and then punished for not being able to 
boar that weight, theso youth virtually did not respond to the ¢ 


kind of ideas wo wero initiating. 


Tho one issue that drew a response was the writing of a Y.M.C.Ae 


sponsored nowsp2per. The opportunity of crvating an cdition 

of this paper, comprisod soley of their reactions to tho high 
school situation, was attractiv: and challenging to thu group, 
and prosented vary little long-term committment to thom, This 
two woeks of work pulled the group together around a specific 
task and placed thom in a position whers they were able to 
challenge each other's viows and memories of their high school 


days. 


With tho cohssion that the success of the newspaper generated, 
wo attempted at this point to follow through with a more 


pormanent community nowspuper, Yet, for this, tho youth were 


faced with the responsibility of concentrating on their community, 


of making an effort to offoctively communicats thoir dissatis- 


faction and concerns to the rest of the citizons, This was the kind 


of committrant which their experience has taught them they 


could illeafford, both financially and idoologically, Parallcling 


this was the fooling that it should bo the staff who must 


Te 


initiata tho work at this stago. 


To overcome this, wo bogan talking about work with the youth 
which could be casily accomplished. The issuo of this kind which 
was most pressings was the organizing and running of the 


proviously Y.i.C.A,. Operated summer Alley Programs, 


For this programme, tho staff has traditionally come from 
universitics outside of tha community. For the first tims, to 
support the kind of work wo had been trying to initiatc, it 
was decided that these indigenous youth eat bo hired. This 


would provides an excollent opportunity for these teens to becom: 


involved in one form of community activity, and, at tho samo timo, 


be provided with a steady income throughout tho summer. In 
addition, keeping in mind ths kind of long-term organization 
wo intended to ostablish, the teens would now bo in a position 
to croate some degroe of credibility with the adult groups in 


tho community. 


To accomplish this, wo formed tho Mile Snd West Youth Project 


whos: primary and immediate concern became the organizing 


Pe 


of the Summor Alloy Programmo for 1971. 


Tho staff took the initiative of submitting a proposal to the 
Federal Government's Opportunitiog for Youth programme and 
obtained a grant that allowed us to smploy ninetocn of tho areats 
youth, The programme had two distinct 4aspacts: Tho day camp 
operated four days por woek both in the city and on a donated 
farm. On Fridays of anch wock, wo hold informal training 
Ssossions in which wo tricd to understand tho direction the 
programme was taking, thc behaviour of tho children in tho any 
camp, the behaviour of the staff, and pagsibly to chancl that 
understanding into a constructive way of changing some of the 
things which they idontifiod as negative influences on them 


and on their community. 


The obstacles in making this cennection botwoon tho ros=. 
ponsibility to tho self 2nd to the commarity arc inhoront in the 


historical and cultural foundations of Mile 2nd Wost. 


Tho community of Milo End West has traditionally boon tho Landing 
ground for immigrants arriving in Montreal. Tho youth with whom 
wo are donling are not recent immigrants. Most of thom cro cither 


sccend, third or fourth generation Canadians. Because of that, 


10. 


they have witnessed ths arrival of various cthnic groups into 
Milo Snd Wost; thoy hive witnossed various groups! mobility 
‘anole in terms of accepted Canidian standards and thoy hove 
stood by while the other ethnic groups moved on to "bottor!! 
‘and mors prosporous parts of Montreal. This is one historical 
fact that has 2 mjor significance on how these youth perceive 
their dofcatism in relation to tho valuss, standards and class 


of the Canadinn socicty. 


Along with the historical implications bohind this fact, wo 
have to romomber that Mile Znd West is very much a part of the 
inner eity of Montreal, As such, it suffors all ths ills of 


innor city lifc. 


These ills aro further compounded by the fect that wo ara dealing 
with a prodominantly immigrant population which is attempting 

to adapt to institutions within the community that cre primarily 
aimed at the Canadian middls class. As such, those institutions 
make it difftieult, and at times impossible, for tho individual 


to cope, 


A common resetion to this often impossible situation is a strongly 


ll. 


prevalent foeling of alionstion, According to Fromm: 


" Alisnated man does not exporiznes himself 
as an active bearcr of his own povers and 
richness, but 28 an impoverished 'thing!, 
dependent on powers outside of himself 
unto whon hoe has projected his living 7 
substance, |! 


For tho youth of this area, alienation takcs a predictablo twist 
in its development. in that their slicnation is « port of a 
questioning sub-culture of youth, with all tho implications 


that 1971 holds for 2 maturing individual. 


Growing up in an environment which removes ono from most 
decision-making, which housos institutions whoss programming 
is gonorally irrelevant to the commnity's neods, puts one 


in 2 position of looking for soms positive reinforcoment. 


Yor tho youth, this roinforcoment came in the form of boing a 


} 
(Ed.) Brie and Mary Josephson, Man Alone. (Now York) 
1962. Pe.55. 


part of the 'cultural revolution! of tho Youth of Amoric.. 


Tho antire questioning of standards and valucs that the North 
Amarican socisty is undergoing is vory much a part of tho 
lifestyle of inner city youth, Because of their aJienation, 
they thomsolves aro rosponding to the now values of the youth 
sub-culture. As such, they aro strongly detached from tho 
institutions that have contributed to the greatest extent tn 


their alionation frou thoir community. 


Tho result is two groups, both of whow are alicnated from those 
institutions, but who havo pereeizsid their roles in tho 
community difforcntly. Onc group of youth has decided to romain 
in school and usu that as ° moans to "mako it", Tho othor group 
has left school, cithcr financially forced to do so, or it has 


simply considered it ths more appropriate choico. 


In rolation to this latter group of youth, wo find ourscives 
in a bind, We are working with « group of people that has a 
a. ganso of valus that croatos disonchantment with its 


environment. Thoy .re also, mainly through drugs, managing to 


12. 


ic 


turn thoir thoughts inwardiy. For thom, tho answer to community 
action and community problem solving lizs in cach individual's 
ability to turn inward, in coach individual's ability to 


become 'good', and this in turn will make the commnity tgood!, 


We are in this bind because what wo are attempting to do is to 
create an environment which will make it possible for overy 
individual to cxpsrience his potential and his goodnnes in 

that community. Many of the youth in this community adopted 

the new and cifferent valucs of ‘looking inward', but 
ossentially rejected ths other important part of the sub=cultura 
of taking social action to create this kind of community. This 
latter value could not be adapted to thair environment. With 

the history of poverty, defeat, and alienation from institutions, 
many had no option but to adopt thoss principles of the 


Youth Revolution which were best suited for thoir community. 


It is for this reason that the project will bave two distinct 
arenas of involvament, In relation to the youth who are still 
attending school, the project shall attempt to work with thom 
in identifying problems and organizing students, parents and 


taachers into working committees. These committcos will attompt 


to work towards solutions for common problems and effect change 


in aroas of concern, 


In dealing with the latter group, those out of school and largely 
unemploysd, keeping in mind the historical background and the 
social forces within the community, the nocossity of physically 


removing this group from the commnity became apparent. 


Tf wo aro to bo at all susccssful in organizing this particular 
group, thon wo rust consciously challenge thoir valus of isolated 
introspection, This task becomes almost impossible in their 
present environment which constantly reinforess that. vzluc, 

This same force is provalont in the group which romeins in 
school, yot thoir proscnes in those schools is in itself an 
indication of their willingness to work within tho ose 


tablished institutions, 
TTI, Project Scop: ance Size 


Cont4auing with tho conecpt developed in the Thooretical Framoe 


-work, tho scopy of the project shall focus on two distinct 


lh. 


aroas of involvoments: 


A. Winter Work Canp 


The Winter Work Camp is an cxperimontal programme which was 
developed as a different and potentially more promising means 
to doal with the rather unique cultural experience of one sogment 


of the youth of Mile End West. 


The work camp will involve some 12-15 youths and ono staff momber 
working under 2 contractual agreement with a Laurentian camp 

to clear ski trails, Tho participants will live at the camp 

for five winter months (November 1971 to March 1972). They will 
ba responsible to care for thoir communal cabin, pool part of 
their salarics cach week for food and look after the basic neads 


that people living in such a setting require. 


As such, basic day=toeday survival will become . now aroa of 
involvoment, The participants will bo responsible to winterize 
thoir cabin, for oxample, and work togather to provide some 


*heuseneld rules! to gonerate a harmonius way of living together. 


The physical labour required under the contract will bo carried 


156 


out on four dys of cach weok, The remaining timo will bo 
directed townrds dovoloping more Objective ways for the group 
to look at the 2n2logous, although more sophisticated, nsood 
for survivel in their own city community and to question the 


basis for that offort at survival, 


Through this, wo will .ttomot to oxamine the behaviour of the 
group monbers and to trace the development of this bunaviour 
as it relates to tho institutional order of thsir communitys 

On what basis have tho schOols, churches and businesses in tho 
arca related to the youths are these institutions rosponsible 
for tho need existing to try to survive, emotionrlly and 
financially, or have they facilitated survival, providing 

for aroas of involvoment and docisionemaking in oducition, rece 


roation and civil rights. 


These sessions will consist of group discussions, guost speakers, 
‘an an approprinte library, all of which sh2ll help to facilitate 
the questioning of tho roles the institutions take in their 
conmunity. This process shall be focussd on chanelling the pere- 
ticipants! now ways of loolcing at themselves tin relation to- 
thoir aroa in the direction of commnity involvement when thoy 


roturn,. 


B. Work in Miles End West 


Realizing that the youth who aro attending school are to some 
degree committed to staying within the commnity, the project 
staff shall contact them around issues related to education 
and recreation in Mile End West. It will be tho worker's 

task to develop high school committees which will focus their 


attention on actively dealing with identificd problems. 


Here tho possible programming shall consist of, initially, tho 
organizing and staffing of, the prosntly Y.M.C.A. operated, 
After Schoo) Programme (recreation in aftar school hours for the 


younger childron of the area), 

_ Initiating tho After School Programme will place the group in 
a position of potentially becoming mors involved with issuos 
other than recreation and establishing thomselves as a 
working group within the community. 


Ce. Youth Corporation 
; as earnestness 


To ensure some dogrea of success in the two areas outlined above, 


17. 


18. 


the Youth Corporation will act as an integrating -gont betwoon 


the two groups and the rest of the commnity. 


The corporation will consist of youth, unomployed as well as 
students, who, 1s members of the corporation, will make themselves 
availablo for any number of paying jobs nogded in and around 

the community. As > logical development of the Winter Work Camp 
and the recreational activities in the city, the contractual 

work engaged by tho corporation will include renovations, 

general maintenance, operation of day camps and a possible 


operation of a cooperative garage, 


Since tho basis for tho corporation is of a cooporative nature, 
the income of theso undertakings will bo oqually divided among 
its working mombers, with possible profits boing chanolled 


into commnity programmes. 


Through the throe areas outlined above, the project shall 
initially be in contact with som: fifty of tho area's high 


school aged youth, With the expansion of ths various high school 


committses and the growth of the corporation, the projoct will 
come into contact with at loast fifty per cent of the areats 
youth. It is through this sort of contact that the project and 
its programming shall attompt to bring the youth of tho various 


athnic groups into a joint problem solving milicu. 


We Objectives 


Specific: 


1. To dovolop within the community a Youth Corporation that 


shall. evolve to become independent of the agcncye- 


2. Through involving youth of various othnic badkgroands in 2 
common,problom solving milicu, attempt to instill 2 sonso 
of commnity identification that will allow the youth to cope 
with and challenge, if necessary, the present social and 


economic conditions in Mile End West. 
General: 


1. To assist youth in identifying their problems and their 


causality, and through available resources attempt to bring 


19 «. 


this understanding into dealing with community probloms, 


2. To creata, among the youth, an awareness of their rights 
- and to support tho youth whenever thoy choose to sxcorsisa 


these. 


V. Project Cliontole 


Tho project shall address itself to the youth (1525 years of age) 


of the Milo End West area, This area of Montreal has a2 popula= 
tion of somo 1\8,000 psoplo and of these some 22,000 aro under 
tho age: of twonty=fivo 2 It has been our expericnco that theso 
youths have great concerns for the issues facing thom and thoir 
commnity. It is a rocognizod fact that at this stage of thoir 
lives, they aro moro willing to place themselves in more 
sstionable and uncortain situations than tho adult community. 


It is with those thoughts in mind that the staff team selected, 


6 
Rossarch Department, Montreal Council of Social Agoncics, Sixty 


Major Study Aroas and Their Comparative Socio-Economic Profilos 
in Stroperiien Hontreal, (July TEE) Study arca no. ele 


20. 


as tho project clicntels, the youth of tho areca, 


Tho aroa of Mile End is comprised of two distinct communitics: 
tho French community boing East of St. Laurent, ind tho immigrant 
community being West of St. Lauront, the arsa known as Milo 

End West. The projoct staff shall rocruit its clientels from 
both of these communitios in an offort to introduce the 


immigrant youth to the Quebec wilicu. 
VI. Duration 


The project, at this stage, has a projected duration of three 
yoars. During this time, the staff and cliontelc shall define 
needs and work on both short and long term solutions. (Sco 

Appondix, Goal Setting, for a comprehensive explanation) Tho 


foraszen phases of operation ares 


1. Continuing already established relationships 


and development of short and long range goals. 
(1971=72) 


2, Establishment of Youth Corporation independent 


21. 


22. 


of the YM.CeA. (1972-73) 


3. Phasa out of ¥.iH.C.A. involvogont (1973=7h) 


VII. Work Plan for Fiscal Year 


On the basis of our previous work in tho community and through 
tho neds identified by the youth contacts which tho staff 
havo established, the following is a tentative work plan for the 


up-coming yoar: 


1. Secure funds to carry through with tho proposed Winter Work 


Camp. 


At tho samo time, tho steff romaining in tho city will increase 
contacts with high schcol studonts to organize and staff the 


After School Programmes, 


2, Initiate tho process wheroby tho participants of the Wintor 
Work Camp can begin to question their involvement in Mile End 


Wast. Programmes will be initiated at this stage (guost speakers, 


236 


films, focusad sessions, assigned reading and discussion) to 


facilitate this loarning, 


At tho samo time, inatiate this sams procass with those attonding 
high school, Bfforts will be made to ostablish working committces 
with the students through training sessions, reading matorial,ote. 
The omphasis at this stage will bo to oxpand the students! area 
of involvoment beyond ths After School Programmc and to bogin to 
doal with concorns of education and civil rights through tho 


committess. 


3. With the understanding to which the participants of the Winter 
Work Camp will be oxposed, en and means of doaling with 
identified community problems, The concept of the Youth Corporae 
tion will bo introduced at this stage to offer a financially 
and emotionally mors sacure means of maintaining tho group's 


involvorent upon their return from tho work camp. 


At tho same timc, ensurc that tho committees of high schocl students 
bogin to actively deal with tho identified concerns, Programmes 


c2n ba foresoon here in terms of students! rights, a community 


2he 


newsptper and oxpansion in recreation, Here, too, the concept 
of the Youth Corporation will be introduced as a means of 


continued 4nvolvemont 1t the end of the school year, 


ke To establish tho Youth Corporation with tho participants of 
the Winter Work Camp (now roturned to tho aity) and tho mombers 
of the high school committoas, Efforts will be made at this stago 
to secure contracts for various kinds of omploymont for tho _ 


members of tho corporation. 


One foreseen contract, tho now annual Summor Alloy Programma, 


4s anticipated for the corporation by summor,1972, 


S. Tho organizing and staffing of tho Alley Programmo by tho 
corporation will bo tho basis for now branching out into intonse 
community involvement, It will bo attempted, at this stago, to 
secure contracts for omployment that will directly or indirectly 


bencfit the commnity. 


A contract of this nature can be forososn in tho operation of 


25. 


of a cooperatively run garage. 


At the same timo, tho members of the corporation will be at 

tho stage where they aro in a position, both financially and in 
tarms of how the rest of the community views tho youth, to 
actively confront those institutions within the community that 
fail to be sensitive to the needs and the changing naturo of 


the area rosidents, 


The reader is asked to refer to the Appendix for detailed 


explanations of the following areas: 


1. Operational Setting 
2. Outline of Social Development Programme 


3. Coordination and Liason with =xisting 
Resources and Services 


lh. Citizen Control 

5S. Leadership Training 
6. Volunteers | 

7. Staff Orientation 
8. Project Planning 


9. Administration 


Henry Rozenblat 


