COl-CAW? (y-MNo)- ¢ 


FRENCH PROGRAM 
SUMMER ‘71 


January 25th, 1971 


Kerry W. Johnston 
Director 
Mile End West Project 


Montreal Y.M.C.A. 


eee omk 


Ls Introduction: 


The recent Quebec crisis has had the effect of further polarizing 
this society. This polarization is not limited to the affluent and the 
poor, but unfortunately, includes polarization between the two language 
groups. As this becomes more entrenched, the possibilities for the anglo- 
phone minority to gain an understanding of the francophone milieu and 
culture become fewer and more strained. 


The Montreal Y.M.C.A. aware that it must define its role in Quebec 
has acknowledged that as a basically anglophone institution it has a res- 
ponsibility to rpomote and encourage understanding and interaction with 
the Quebecois on the part of the anglophone population. It is also aware 
that this task is extremely difficult as the "two solitudes" become more 
and more a reality. 


The widely shared view of the stereotype Quebecois, developed in 
the main from the exposure given to certain elements of the Quebec milieu 
by the media, makes a rational and empathetic understanding of the situa- 
tion, difficult. The development of this stereotype has resulted in a 
fear of contact with the majority and gives credibility to the claim of 
some that the anglophone population of Montreal exists in a ghetto. 


It is in an attempt to promote a greater understanding on the part 
of the linguistic minority and encourage eradication of the ghetto stigma 
that the Montreal Y.U.C.A. is proposing the concept developed in this 
submission. The Y.M.C.A. with seven branches in the anglophone community 
and a tradition of providing summer programmes, is uniquely positioned to 
establish and administer such a program. 


2. Concept. 
A. Development. 


The program was initially developed to help immigrant children 
overcome the resistance they developed to learning a third language. A 
language to which they in no way identified and which was introduced to 
them via outmoded and stagnant teaching methods. 


Basically the concept was developed from the traditional day camp 
operation. Counsellors for the program were French-speaking students, the 
language of communication became predominantly French and activities and 
trips were planned in such a way as to give the participants an intro- 
duction to the life of the francophone milieu which surrounded them. Re- 
sults of the program indicated that it was successful particularly in its 
effect on changing the attitudes of the participants. Several local 
specialist French teachers observed that children who had participated in 


ere: 


the summer experience were far more enthusiastic and more inclined to 
participate in classroom activities than their classmates who had not 
enjoyed the same experience. 


In the summer of 1970, the International Branch, which had 
initiated the program, extended the program to include some 300 children. 
This was done with the financial assistance of the Social Action Branch, 
Citizenship Department of the Secretary of State. 


The program of 1970 differed from the previous years in that it 
emphasized exposure to the Quebec culture rather than the French language 
and because attempts were made to involve parents in some aspects of the 
program. The use of unilingual counsellors was another innovation which 
proved hgihly successful and created a minimum of difficulties. Although 
parent participation was not all that had been hoped for, the program 
was successful and definitely contributed to the changing attitude of an 
immigrant community towards the francophone majority. This is no small 
achievement and indicates that the concept can become a vehicle for 
promoting understanding and interaction. 


B. Summer ‘71 


The proposed plan for this summer calls for expansion of the 
program to involve some 4,500 children, These children would be drawn 
from all aprts of the western section of the Island of Montreal, that is 
from St. Lawrence Boulevard to Baie d'urfé. 


This expansion is justified in that the program has been demon- 
strated as a viable and successful means of dealing with a social situation 
that will drastically effect future developments both locally and nation- 
ally. 


The program will be decentralized and operate from some twenty 
sites. The sites will be selected so that they will be readily accessible 
for local participants and provide sufficient space for creative program- 
ming. Schools and social agency buildings seem the most likely possi- 
bilities. 


Participants will work in small groups of 12 to 15 with a uni- 
lingual French student as counsellor. Each site will have a bilingual 
supervisor whose task among others will be to intervene and assist when 
problems arise with communications. 


Basically the program will develop around one major experience 
each week. This experience could involve spending a day ro more inter- 
acting and playing with children from francophone communities, or visits 
to institutions that reflect the Quebec culture and milieu. However, 
the decision as to what experience the group will participate in will 
remain in the hands of the counsellor and the group. 


ia owed 


The remainder of the week will principally revolve around pre- 
paration for the event and assimilation of the experience through dis- 
cussion and other forms of expression. Language instruction will be 
limited to short periods where children will be introduced to a vocabulary 
‘pertinent to their planned activity. The usual day camp activities, sports, 
etc., will be included, wherever possible, they will be used to encourage 
exposure to activities that are representative of the Quebec culture. 


Larger groups will be brought teogether for planned activities 
using a day camp site in Ile Perrot. French groups will be invited to 
participate in these activities. A further possibility is to use fac- 
ilities in the Laurentians. This would involve groups of up to fifty 
children in a more intensive experience as it would mean they would spend 
3 or 4 days and nights with their monitors in a total French milieu. 


From past experience it is apparent that the degree to which the 
children participate in these new experiences is dependent on the atti- 
tudes and enthusiasm of the counsellors. Emphasis will be placed on 
hiring counsellors who have some experience and a desire to work with 
children. Teacher-training institutions and the Université de Montréal 
will be approached in order to identify the students most likely to 
provide the leadership required. 


Deliberate efforts will be made to develop programs that will 
involve the parents of the participants. Such programs could include film 
evenings, folk dancing, etc. It will be clearly spelt out in the job 
description and the training program that this is an essential component 
of the summer activity. 


The program will operate for two terms of four weeks, 5 days 
per week. Fees will range between $50 and $10 per term and will be 
established on a regional basis, according to the general economic level. 


oa ale 


Administration. 


| Director ——-_—____—___—_ Business Manager | 
Coordi (2) Secretary (2) | 


nators 


| Area Coordinators (3) 


| Counsellors (10 per Supervisor) | 150 


{———-———. 
| Participants 15 per Counsellor) 2,250 per term 


ei owe 


4, Budget. 

Expenses 

150 Counsellors @ $600. ea. $90,000 

15 Group Supervisors @ $750 ea. 11,250 

3 Area Coordinators @ $1,000 3,000 

2 Coordinators @ $3,000 6,000 

1 Business Manager 1,750 

2 Secretaries @ 500 ea. 1,000 

1 Director 3,000 

116,000 
Travel 30,000 
Supplies and Promotion 25,000 
Rentals 10,000 
Training 10,000 
Service Charge 5,000 
80,000 
TOTAL 
196,000 

Income 
4,000 children @ avg. fee of $25 100,000 


Total subsidy requested $96,000 


