SUMMER PROGRAM PROPOSAL - 1971 


INTERNATIONAL Y.M.C.A. 


The International Y.M.C.A, has operated the summer Alley Program 
for the past two years in the area of Mile End West. The program makes 


use of the back alleys and lanes of the area as program centres. 


For the summer of 1970, the program was especially successful, Throughout 
the two months of operation, some 700 - 1000 children were invdlved 

in the activities which included sports, excursions, and arts & crafts. 
By the arts & crafts staff moving among the alleys each day, most of 

the children became skilled in one aspect of crafts by the end of 


the summer, 


This year, a 750 acre farm has been donated for our use for an extended 
camping version of the Alley Program. We are not required to pay 
any fees for the use of the land. A small waterfront and farmhouse 


for workshops are available as well. 


This camping experience will undoubtedly prove to be extremely valuable 
to these inner city children. Last summer, we were able to provide 

one twoeday camping trip. The children considered it as the peak of 

the summer experience and all through the winter they talked about 


“gamp" and asked if we would be able to return this summer, 


It is evident from this response and by looking at the "play areas’ 
where these children spend most of their time during the warm months, 
that it is essential for inner city children to be exposed to the open 
spaces and facilities that the country can offer. Most of them have 


rarely been outside of the immediate surroundings of Mile End West 
and their perceptions of the world end there as well. 


With the anticipated funds, we will employ ten counsellors and 
three specialised arts & crafts instructors. These workers will be 
hired from the local high schools and universities, and, as such, 


they will develop leadership skills that #111 remain in the community. 


For these reasons, it is important for the Federal and Municipal govern- 
ments to take a serious look at the needs that the children in this 


community exhibit, and meet with us to discuss the enclosed budget. 


BUDGET: 

Staff 

40 counsellors at $600 O8....c<scequasenessvasssegesasce¥Oy000 
1 supervisor at Si ecnvsacaiewyeceesankenenadgenncgeers 650 
3 arts & crafts instructors at $600 Siswkacex¢ooungsgnachegeoo 


Equipment. ..coccscesscqecseseqecceccscoesqoaaqeceequcsqees 500 


Transportation 
(buses to and Creti ccvaddvevcevanqeanbebage coqnesnenvunwe syed 


Training, administration 
and general overhead at 8%......+.4- itiwmuineheaswsser Ore 


total $13,122 


36 


