KAMP KANAWANA_'7] 


Our campers had a good summere It was one that was packed 
full of fun, excitement, making new friends, growing into young 
men and women, learning new skills and being 'camp-sick' (the 
opposite of homesick). We were fortunate to have a large per- 
centage of last year's staff join us again this season. Their 
knowledge of Kanawana and their previous experiences added 
immensely to the success of our camping season. 


Our program areas functioned smoothly and saw all campers 
involved in a variety of programs to an extent of meeting their 
pre-determined needs. '‘All-camp' programs showed high camper 
spirit and participation without placing heavy emphasis on the 
"one-to-one' competition. 


Bridge building, the clearing of new and old trails, 
sounding the lake were only a few of the many constructive 
activities the staff and campers identified and did as group 
projects. 


Fun was a great part of all our programs and everyone 
enjoyed themselves at campfires, skit nights, etc. Several 
trips returned to camp and sang songs that they made up about 
their trip and its events. It was a good summer. 


To be more specific here about what took place at camp 
this past summer would take more time and space than is presently 
available. I feel that it would also be an exercise in writing 
(a skill which does not come easy to me) and of little use for 
the coming summer. 


I would like to take the opportunity here to reflect on 
what I have learned during my all too short, two years as Director 
and focus this report on recommendations for '72. 


I feel that I have gained immensely from those who were 
involved in planning over the winter period and those who imple- 
mented the plans during the summer. I hope that this report does 
justice to all your tireless efforts and long well spent hours of 
work. 


I have felt for sometime now that there was something 
lacking at Kanawana and only recently have been able to formulate 
in my mind what it was- It is not that something is missing but 
that too much is involved. 


We began as a tripping camp and since then have continued 
to add to it. We are now at the extreme where we must concentrate 
on all the ‘other' program areas to the decline of our tripping 
quality. 


Let me expand on this for a moment. Our Hike and Trip 
Committee found several areas of weakness (i.e. food portions 
per camper per trip) where they designed a better system by which 
we functioned this yeare This should be the continued focus. 
Our staff are concerned about program schedules (i.e. campers go 
riding because they identified this as an interest), that they 
have short duration trips. A lack of equipment - our canoes are 
used for boating and trips and there are not enough available to 
operate a quality tripping program of trips 7-10 days in duration 
holding our campers to camp, etc. 


My premise is that we have the experience, knowledge and 
understanding to operate the best tripping (i.e. this also includes 
hikes) camp in Quebec if not in Canada. I feel, therefore, that 
if we accept this premise that we set our focus in this direction 
and eliminate all other areas. 


Our camp is well known as a person centered camp. Our 
focus remains the same. But the increase of program areas (i.e. 
bikes, horses, etc.) gives us the dimension of a program scheduled 
camp where the campers fit the schedule. We all know what inter- 
personal relations, awareness of self, others and appreciation of 
nature can take place on a trip. This is what I feel our campers 
are really looking for. A meaningful experience and identity 
they receive with the closeness of a trip. An opportunity to get 
away from schedules and to be themselves. 


Stated very simply my major recommendations for Kanawana 
are as follows: 


l. 


Kanawana program should focus specifically on 
hikes and canoe trips. 


- this would reduce budget expenses by cutting 
back on all other program staff and equipment. 


- all meals would be cooked out - just as when 
they are on their trip. 


Kanawana should move this aspect of its operation 
50-100 miles further north to a smaller base camp 
site. 


- buildings and program areas are no longer 
needed. The hiking areas around St. Sauveur 
are rapidly disappearing and our canoe trips 
are venturing this far north at the present 
moment. 


The age for campers should be raised to at least 
ten years of age (if not higher). 


- day camps linked with us could offer a 
challenging program for the younger child - 
who is already sought after by sports teams, 
and other specialized programs. 


Kanawana's present property to be used for 
experimental programs or rentals. 


- our budget surplus should come from rentals, 
not from our camp operation alone. 


- it would allow time for major renovations 
(i.e. rebuilding, winterizing, etc.) to be 
done. 


“2. 


- our Becsies property is over-run by '‘locals' 
and wandering youth. It should become a 
"hostel in the north',or better, to sell it 
now and use the proceeds to equip our hikes 
and trips. 


The above is stated all too briefly but the basic idea 
and implications are clear. A smaller and less costly operation 
could function next year along the lines that we have the 
expertise in (i.e. hikes and trips). 


The remaining sections of this report will look at various 
areas of Camp '71 and all recommendations will be based on the 
proposed model suggested above. 


> 
iG 
7 


20 


2L 


PROPOSED CAMP EXPERIENCE 


PARK 
DE LA 
VERENDRYE 


nn 


TRAINING 


CAMP 


STAFF 


SENIOR 


STAFF 


Program operated on Kamp Kanawana site can be for all ages. 


PRE-CAMP TRAINING: 


Our pre-camp training sessions this year, although they 
contained similarities to previous years, had several distinctive 
points about them. 


The primary focus of this year's pre-camp was skill (both 
people and camp) learning sessions and fun. 


The skill sessions were improved by with a high percentage 
of old staff returning to Kanawana this year which allowed us 
greater depth and resources to begin camp with and by the addition 
of the Park trippers who added their own personal insights into 
tripping with a few ‘helpful hints'. 


As we are basically a hike and trip camp we also sent the 
staff out on a three day camping session (in the past it usually 
comprised of an overnight hike). The two senior sections (male 
and female) ventured separately on the Preston-Simon trip. This 
trip proved to be an excellent one for the campers during camp 
as it contained ‘a little bit of everything' - large and small 
lakes, trekking, fast water, etc- in it~ The junior sections 
camped nightly at various sites on our property. They used their 
time to get-to-know each other and to clean up the sites and 
swimming areas in preparation for the campers. 


The fun aspect was included on the premise that if we can't be 
loose and have fun, then how do we expect the campers to enjoy 
themselves. It was a dry-run at evening campfire programs, skit 
nights and entertaining ourselves with the talent we found among 
use This proved to be the solid foundation for many enjoyable 
sessions with the campers during the evening and the staff 
continued to gather all during the summer in their ‘lounge' for 
an evening's fellowship. 


There were several visitors or resource people who took 
part in the pre-camp training. These people were warmly welcomed 
to camp but there was a feeling of intrusion by these people 
coming to camp- The staff feel that they are on the front lines 
with the campers and they know what the camp (or campers) need 
and what is lacking. They feel that they are stunted in their 
attempts to make their views known. There is an urgent need to 
bring the staff together in an informal session to dialogue about 
the camp - as the staff see it, and for them to understand the 
tremendous man-hours and involvement of groups such as the Hike 
and Trip and Waterfront Committees have given behind the scenes. 
Unless this is acted upon there will be a growing split between 
the lay and staff groups - which will do nothing but hamper what 
we all are attempting to do. 


RECOMMENDATIONS : 


1. 


If we are to be a hike and trip camp then our 
entire pre-camp session should be re-focused 
to concentrate in this area. 


Our trippers should be out at least one month 
in advance to pre-camp to investigate new trips 
(and hiking areas) and see what changes have 
occurred in the old ones. 


Pre-camp training to remain at a 2 week period. 
It would be broken down as follows: 


4 days - clean up camping sites and repair 
equipment, etc. 


4 days - skill sessions 


l day - lay-staff sessions over present and 
future developments 


4 days - canoe trip and/or hike 

l day - free time 

Pre-camp should extend all year round with 
reunions (both staff and oe training 


sessions, skill (i.e. lifesaving) sessions, 
etce held in Montreal. 


ORGANIZATION: 


The camp is a large organization (over 60 staff, most of 
whom might be hired up to one month before camp begins). I feel 
that it is too large for what we really need to do. 


This summer there were 13 people supervised by the Director 
and 4 by the Business Manager- With our staff changing their 
positions each year (i.e. counsellor to section director) they 
need extra supervision in order to provide the support structure 
necessary for them to function adequately. Time at camp does 
not always allow for this, particularly if the Director wants to 
see programs in action and is available for the 'emergency' 
situations that occur. 


RECOMMENDATIONS : 


1. By focusing on hiking and tripping we would 
eliminate a large number of staff (and reduce 
budget expenses) to bring the camp into a more 
personal focus. 


2. IKIf the campers prepared their own meals while 
at base camp (possibly 3 days in total) then 
we would save a sizable budget figure. If the 
camper is expected to be knowledgeable about 
camping he should begin immediately upon his 
arrival by cooking his own food =- he has to do 
it on a trip. 


PROMOTION: 


1971 Promotion started last December with Christmas cards 


being mailed to all campers. 


Drench mailings totaling 17,881 brochures and application 


forms were sent to the following locations: 


Beaconsfield) 
Beaurepaire 

Candiac 

Brossard 

Lachine West 

Montreal West) 

N.D.G. ) 

Hudson ) 
Hudson Heights) 

RoR. #1 ) 

Como 

Ste Anne de Bellevue) 
Senneville ) 
Ste Marie Road ) 
Baie d'Urfe ) 


The following areas were also covered totaling 2,292: 


YMCA Branches 
Business Men's Club 
"69 & '70 campers 
Downtown Boys 

Metro Board Members 
Northeastern U-S.- Ys 


The West Island Branch assisted us in mailing to the 


following areas: 


Cedar Park Heights 
Lakeside Heights 
Valois 

Central Pointe Claire 
Lakeside 


4547 


1059 
2810 
2741 
2537 


2050 


2137 


466 
578 
455 
304 
397 


10. 


PROMOTION (CONT'D) 


A camper and staff reunion was held on Sunday, May 16th, 
at the Westmount Branch. Approximately 100 campers and some 
parents really seemed to enjoy this get together. 


The “Travelogue” section of the Montreal Star edited by 
Ted Parks on May lst gave honourable mention to all YMCA camps 
including a very good write-up on Kamp Kanawana. 

We placed advertisements in daily, as well as weekly 
newspapers both on and off the island. The Camping supplement 
of the Montreal Star ran a special feature on Kanawana.- 


A telephone survey was also conducted to all "70 campers 
and parents to give us an idea of possible registration for '7l. 


RECOMMENDATIONS : 


1. Consider the usage of: 


Birthday cards to campers 
- TV coverage 

- Radio talk shows 

- Speaking engagements 


2. Assistance for P-R- (and also financial support) could 
be secured through the development of a double 'K' 
double 'A' group (Kamp Kanawana Alumni Association). 


3. The Montreal office should have a distinct 'camp' 
flavour (i-e. pictures, paddles, etc.) about it. It 
should be separate from other areas and encourage 
parents and campers to drop in and talk about camp - 
summer camp, winter camp and usage- 


ll. 


REGISTRATION: 


Camper Weeks No. of Campers 
Boys Girls Boys Girls 
743 504 284 197 


RECOMMENDATIONS : 


1. A smaller camp operation would require fewer campers. 
It would provide a personal, high quality program, 
however, this would produce, very shortly, a waiting 
list of campers. It would also be easier to meet the 
new budget figure and allow the time previously spent 
on PeR- to be re-focused on equipment, program, etc. 


12. 


PROGRAM -— GENERAL: 


Our program this year was very successful. Again the 
emphasis must be placed on the staff. Pre-planning can only go 
so far - it is, in the long run, up to the staff to make it work. 


Our only difficulty was one of communication. With a staff 
the size of ours it is easy to have situations of miscommunication 
but over the summer we seemed to iron out most of the bugs. 


Whatever happens in camp is the direct responsibility of 
the Camp Director. He should be the only one who makes the 
decisions as to what will happen at camp and who and what is 
needed. Unless he is knowledgeable about everything that is 
going on and/or it has his approval there will be a communication 
breakdown and eventually the camp will be affected by it. 


WATERFRONT 


Our staff did an excellent job this year. The swimming 
and boating instructions were of good quality and many campers 
smiled happily in the dining hall as they received their cert- 
ificates. There was some confusion on the part of both staff 
and campers as they adjusted to the new boating cards. These 
tests should be re-investigated before it is finalized. There 
was also a shortage of equipment (i.e. canoes and life jackets) 
as many trips began to go out. At some points toward the end 
of camp junior campers could not venture forth due to the lack 
of life jackets. 


I would also question our swimming program and its focus. 
We operate a similar program to the Montreal YMCA but cannot and 
should not be expected to make swimmers out of our campers. We 
are affected by weather, trips and hikes, other programs (4.66 
riding, all-camp, etc.) and cabin programs. The swim times can 
be kept consistant by the swimmers - availability cannot. There- 
fore, I feel that we should encourage all potential campers to 
attend classes in Montreal before coming to camp- In that regard 
we need focus on boating skills and can get trips away more 
safely and quickly. 


13. 


HIKE & TRIP: 


The availability of our Hike and Trip Director (for the 
third year), the resources (due to first period cancellation of 
Les Voyageurs de la Verendrye) of the Park trippers and an 
excellent, hard working packer made this area function extremely 
well. That is until the last three weeks when our Director had 
to join the two Park trippers at La Verendrye and due to oper- 
ating on a tight staff operation we were slightly disorganized 
toward the end of camp. 


Our canoes are divided into three areas - Park, hike and 
trip, and waterfront. Each area (except the former) has an 
inadequate supply of canoes in good repair. Our majority of 
canoes should be for tripping (a set of 3 for each tent group to 
use and maintain). Our equipment also needs to be re-examined 
and re-stocked. 


A donation of food from McGill University added to our 
quality of dehydrated foods but this will not be available for 
too long into the future. 


Longer trips or exchanges with other Provinces (or the 
U-S-A-) should be considered. Most of our present trips are at 
least 50 miles away from camp and it would make sense to look to 
this area as use for a new base Camp. 


Camper transportation should also be considered. Several 
vehicles and canoe trailers would make the tripping operation 
more successful as would a camp car for emergency le supplies) 
trips. 


Several of our better trips are on the verge of becoming 
‘cottage’ trips as housing developments continue to move further 
north. Negotiations for buying of small areas of land for camp 
sites might prove a worthwhile venture. 


Our Becsies property has become over-run with the ‘locals’ 
using it for weekend picnics and old staff and Campers using it 
for a place to '‘crash'. It has become too well known. To place 
a guard on the property would be poor local P-R. and only a 
gesture. 


14. 


HIKE & TRIP (CONT'D) 


Last year's report suggested usage of it for youth travelers 
as they travelled through Canada. A resource person on the site 
working or available to them would be one suggestion. This could 
be funded through a special resource and provide the youth with 
a much needed area to feel ‘welcome’ at. The other alternative 
is to sell the property and use the results to purchase land 
further north. 


Meanwhile back at camp, I feel that our trips should be 
extended to 8-12 days duration. This would provide the time to 
enjoy the fellowship of others on the trip, to properly at first- 
hand learn the skills of tripping and to appreciate the 'unspoiled' 
country we still have. 


We should also design a procedure for late or lost trips 
‘off' our property. We are geared for any emergency on our site 
but not off of it. 


RIDING: 


The program went extremely well this summer with trail 
riding, lunch rides and overnight trips. Special stalls were 
built at two locations on camp property so the horses could be 
used for overnight rides. Most of the Campers received sufficient 
riding time and many 'horsemamship' awards were presented to 
proud campers. 


Actual grooming, preparing and understanding of horses 
was included in the riding program. 


Again communications proved to be a problem here due to 
(a) the distance of the stables to the camp and (b) the un- 
certainty as to who was on staff or helping at the stables. 
Several campers volunteered much of their time to assist at the 
stables because of their interest in the horses. 


The stables themselves were placed in excellent condition 
due to the work of Julien Tasse during pre-cCamp. 


RECOMMENDATIONS : 


1. That the riding program be discontinued as a 
part of Kanawana program. It may be re- 
considered as one particular program separate 
from all others for those whose interests 
move in that direction. It is an expensive 

too expensive) program for Kanawana at the 
present time. 


Ls 


OTHER PROGRAMS : 


Several tents became interested in nature and involved 
their learning to include: survival hikes, building bridges 
and trails, sounding the lake, making candles, etc. 


Archery was enjoyed but its distance from the camp did 
not keep it in the forefront with other nearby visible activities. 


Soccer and volleyball games seemed more prevalent this 
year than in the past - the latter was usually coed when senior 
Campers played. 


All-camp programs showed ingenuity and a high spirit of 
involvement and fun. There were usually two special programs 
per period. These programs were planned by a variety of the 
staff and this added to the interest and involvement by all. 


Visitors days saw a planned water show by campers and 
staff. Races, demonstrations, etc. were included. It was held 
to approximately one hour and all the visitors enjoyed themselves. 


TRAINING CAMP: 


Our training camp program was redesigned this year and 
thanks to its Director, it was a fantastic success. Basically 
we did away with the Counsellor-in-Training and Junior Counsellor 
concept and called all those involved Junior Counsellors. Then 
we opened the program to those who inquired - and seemed like 
good prospects for our camp - for a one month period. To those 
that we knew previously or who seemed to be outstanding candidates, 
we offered them a two month program. 


The program for the first month included: 


First 2 weeks 5 days - skill sessions 

5 - canoe trip (hike) 

| es - free time 

1 - working in section 

1 - preparing with 
section staff 


Second 2 weeks Working in sections with 
same status as counsellors 
(except no swimming on 
hikes unless another 
counsellor was on hand). 


16. 


TRAINING CAMP (CONT'D) 
The second month program was the reverse of the above. 
This outline proved to be successful except the second 
month was reversed to be the same as the first month due to low 
registration for the third period and a sudden increased in the 
fourth period. 


RECOMMENDATIONS : 


1. Training camp pay full fees. 


2. The outline for '71 could basically be 
continued and improved upon in consideration 
of: 


(a) the re-focus of Kamp Kanawana '72 


(b) keeping it as a part of Kamp 
Kanawana or operating it as a 
leadership training program 
(i.e. for day camp and resident 
camp staff). 


17. 


HEALTH & SAFETY: 


Our nurse did an excellent job at camp this summer. Her 
responsibilities were increased this year due to the fact that 
we did not have a doctor in residence. 


Our two main problems in this area were: 


(a) transportation of (sometimes 8 at one 
time) campers to the doctor in 
St. Sauveur. 


(b) having to decide whether to wait 
to take a camper to St. Sauveur 
during visiting hours or to, 
instead, transport him/her to 
St. Jerome or Montreal. 


There was also a large amount of 
time spent by our staff waiting 
for the campers to be seen. 


After many futile attempts to secure permission to install 
a washing machine at camp we finally placed a second-hand wringer 
machine for the benefit of the staff. Until that time the staff 
had to travel to St. Sauveur to do their laundry. There should 
also be a commercial dryer installed at camp to handle wet 
sleeping bags, etc. 


Our ball fields, play areas, etc. are still very dangerous 
with unlevel ground and large boulders protruding at irregular 
intervals. During some free time during pre-camp training the 
staff took it upon themselves to rake and attempt to level several 
areas for safety's sake. These areas should receive attention 
before next year or not be used due to their unsafe nature. 


18. 


CAMPERS : 


The campers this summer were excited, enthusiastic and 
ready to have fun. They participated in all the activities and 
learned many skills (i.e. riding, canoeing, campcraft, candle 
making, etc.) while at camp. 


They also mixed as they desired (coed) and made many new 
friends. There were no major problems with campers this summer 
CisGs drugs or coed programs). 


A number of the younger campers remained 'homesick' for 
long periods of time as there seemed to be an over abundance of 
parents calling to ask about their camper. The latter, upon 
further discussion, showed more parental insecurity than camper 
concern. We had a good number of parents ‘dropping in' on us as 
they were in the neighbourhood to see how things were going. 


The camp began, at one point, to look like a drop-in center 
for almost everyone (Becsies had more visitors dropping in than 
we did however). 


Our junior campers are a little bit too junior yet for the 
type of camp (i.e. hike and trip) we are operating. We should 
raise our age level to at least 10 years and offer another program 
Lise. a traveling day camp or a family camp) for those under 10 
years. 


19. 


PLANT: 
Rentals 


There are an increasing number of rentals at Kanawana each 
yeare As the camp itself lasts only a short period of time, yet 
is expected to subsidize a full year's operation, it would seem 
to be for the best interest of Kanawana to re-examine our rental 
policies. Rentals should prove adequate enough to more than 
realize the financial loss occurred by the camp operation. 


RECOMMENDATIONS: 


1. All rentals be made by the Director. 


2- A fee structure be set, including scope for 
the size of the group. 


3. A written document of what can be made avail- 
able ro rental groups (i.e. rules, equipment, 
etc.) and what is ‘out of bounds'. 


4. A staff resource person should be on site for 
all rentals. 


5- The sale of Becsies property to help financially 
support plant rebuilding at Kamp Kanawana. 


Our property still needs a rest. Late winter and early 
rentals makes it very difficult to put the camp into its necessary 
state of readiness. Our property and buildings could also be 
winterized to add to its year round usage. If we experimented 
with the property in new programs we could do so on a rotation 
usage of the sectionse This would allow at least one year for 
each section to receive major work on it. 


Various plant repairs, etc. are documented in the Directors' 
reports from 1967 to 1970. 


RECOMMENDATIONS 


1. A long range plan of usage of the property should 
be identified first, then the focus of rebuilding 
(or repair) could start. 


2. A capital campaign is really necessary to see 
the camp brought up to the level it should be. 


3. A plan by which new equipment (i.e. canoes) 
would be purchased each year on a rotation basis. 


20. 


FOOD SERVICES: 


Our food and services were excellent again this year. We 
had delicious programs ranging from a cook-out (all camp) to our 
closing banquet. The Chef felt a real part of camp and he and 
his staff assisted with the smooth functioning of our operations 
(i.e. hike and trip supplies) at every opportunity. The Chef 
also visited some of our hikes and showed them how to bake beans 
in the sand. 


RECOMMENDATIONS : 


1. The new site for our hikes and trips would see 
all campers preparing their own meals- As they 
have to do so when on a trip, why not start 
immediately. 


2. If experimental programs were to be operated 
from Kamp Kanawana a cafeteria style operation 
should be considered. 


COMMENTS - GENERAL: 


1. Our season is long for the staff. Next year we 
should consider a three day break between the 
second and third period or shorter periods 
(i.e. 12-13 days) with all staff receiving the 
same day off. Thus the number of rover 
counsellors would be reduced. 


2. 1 have followed a policy of all staff being 
18 years of age or over. Senior staff are 
21 years of age and over. 


This area has raised some question as to the 
possible hiring of younger (counsellor) staff 
and should receive the attention of the Board 
for a statement to our policy in this matter. 
My own recommendation is that we retain our 
present policy. 


2l. 


LES VOYAGEURS DE LA VERENDRYE: 
The Park program had a good season, although the first 
period was cancelled due to low registration. 


The concerns about the Park program are: 


(a) a lack of knowledge about the applicants' 
swimming and boating skills prior to 
arriving at camp. 


(b) (on my part) a lack of communication 
with the various groups to ensure that 
all is well on the trips. 


The trips were shorter this year (2 and 3 weeks) and I 
feel that they should be extended back to their original 3 and 
4 weeks» The co-ordinator should also be re-established at the 
Park to provide supplies and periodic checks on all the trips. 


The Park seems to receive the least amount of P-R- (not 
even a separate brochure) and yet it is the best experience we 
offer. Special PeR» should be given to this area before we are 
forced to cancel more sessions due to low registration. 


ORGANIZATION CHART 197] 


WOODSMEN PATHFINDER WOODSMEN PATHFINDER 
BOYS BOYS GIRLS GIRLS 

C0 Die Sie Dis Ga Ss Die 

7 10 5 


COUNSEL'S COUNSEL'S 


COUNSEL'S COUNSEL'S 


—_———— 
CAMP DIRECTOR aoe JULIEN 
TASSE _ 
i 
NATURE SENIOR HIKE RIDING BUSINESS TRAIN. 
CRAFT WATER- & MANAGER CAMP 
FRONT TRIP | 
| 
' 
{ 
| 
BDAT JR ASST. 
INST. WATER- RIDING 
FRONT 
a | 
3 
TRIPPERS 
INC. PARK 
TRUCK 5 CATERER 
DRIVER B-O.« RELATIONS 


ASST. 


NURS} 


At this point, I would like to express my sincere 
thanks to all those that I have worked with over 
the past two years. 


Any operation such as ours cannot function properly 
without two key ingredients. The first is the pre- 
planning, thought, and insights into what should be. 
The second is the actual, direct contact with the 
Campers as to what can be. 


I can also not forget to mention the untiring and 
endless help that Mrs. Hall gives to all Board, 
staff, campers, parents and most of all the 
Director. 


The staff and Board make Kanawana - the campers 
make it go. 


My sincere thanks, 


James H- Turner, 
Camp Director, 
Kamp Kanawana '7l. 


