MILE END WEST PROJECT 


Progress Report for the Period April 1, 1970 - 
March 31, 1971. 


Kerry W. Johnston 


Project Director 


4, Progress Made. 


a) The Hellenic Parents end Guardians Federation now has a member- 
ship in excess of 3,500 and can correctly claim to be the organization that 
represents the Greek immigrant population of Montreal. It was the action 
that asserted this representation that was one of the major developments 
in the past year indeed it is proving to be the most significant in the 
history of Montreal's Greek population. 


Its significance lies in the fact that for the first time there is 
an alternative organization to the paternalistic Montreal Hellenic Community. 
An organization of some 100 wealthy Greek-Canadians that for decades has 
refused to recognize the plight of the immigrants or involve itselself in 
their problems. Indeed with its emphasis on the fatherland and its glories, 
the Hellenic Community has acted as a foil to the process of integration 
into Canadian and Quebec society. 


The action that led to the assertion of the immigrants, developed 
around a request the Parents Federation submitted to the Protestant School 
Board seeking permission to use classrooms,out of school hours, for Greek 
language classes. The Board reacting to this ‘grass roots' request, invited 
the Greek Church/Hellenic Community to develop such classes. Despite the 
considerable pressure that was applied to the parents by teachers, priests 
and the local media, a move of disgust and anger spread through the immi- 
grant community. 


The Parent's Federation publicly declared its opposition to the 
School Board's decision and perhaps for the first time the many groups 
that have splintered the community united behind the Federation. At a 
public meeting attended by some 2,000 members, representatives of the 
School Board admitted they had acted on bad advice and offered the Parents 


Federation the same facilities as the Church/Hellenic Community. The 
demand that permission be withdrawn from the latter organization could not 
be met as a contract had been signed. 


The strategy then became one of registering as many students as 
possible. Despite the continuous harassment from the pulpit, the support 
for the Parent's Federation became wide-spread and by the Fall, there were 
classes in some twenty-five schools. Significantly much support came from 
cutside of the "ghetto-area" of the ethnic community, as for many, the 
Federation offered the first viable alternative to the Hellenic Community. 
By December, it was apparent that there was no competition and many of the 
teachers and the students previcusly registered with the Hellenic Community 
changed their allegiance. 


While the struggle with the Hellenic Community had absorbed much 
of the time and energy of the 2arents Federation, they were active in sev- 
eral other ereas. During the summer, a French progran involved some 300 
children in activities that were designed to expose the participants to the 
dynamic culture of the francopuone majority. 


re ae 


Through the pressure applied to local city aldermen and the School Board, 
the Parents Federation was successful in having a school yard that had 
been converted to a city parking lot returned to its original purpose. A 
brief, outlining the problems that existed at the local schools and re- 
commending a series of solutions was presented to the School Board. Some 
of the recommendations were followed-up and the Parents Federation is pre- 
sently conducting a study in conjunction with the McGill School of Archi-~ 
tecture that will result in a more precise definition of the problems and 
recommendations for appropriate actions. 


B. After many frustrating delays, due in the main to the difficul- 
ties of finding suitable premises in the area and the great volume of 
bureaucratic red tape, the Park Avenue Coop. Day Care Centre was begun. 
Although the delays made it difficult to sustain parent involvement and 
interest, the support given as the Centre became closer to a reality and 
the response, in terms of enrollment, indicated that the Centre was of 
importance to a large section of the population. 


An interesting contrast was developed with this and another day 
care centre opened some eight blocks away by the Junior League. This latter 
effort involved no local participation and had no ability to communicate 
with the surrounding immigrant population. 


Its failure to attract more than 12-15 children in contrast to 
that of the Park Avenue Centre which had a waiting list of 20 children 
three days after it opened indicated the success of citizen involvement. 
Although attempts were made to refer parents to the other centre, the 
attitude was generally "this is our centre not that one, we will wait". 


The Centre is presently administered by the Family Services Assoc- 
dation, and the Y.M.C.A. which is the leasee of the premises. All staff 
have been recruited from the local community and all are bilingual, that is, 
speak either French and English or one of the two plus Greek. A continuing 
grant has been secured from the Quebec Government. 


The Project has continued to work with the parents of the children 
involved and it is anticipated that a parents association will take full 
responsibility within a year. 


C. As with the above operation, considerable frustration has 
developed as a result of the inability to have a clinic become operational. 
The confused state of medical administration in the province, the hesitancy 
on the part of local hospitals and doctors, and the Project staff being 
unable to devote sufficient time are the causes of the frustration. 


However, considerable progress has been made in having local hosp- 
itals become aware and sensitive to the particular problems of the ethnic 
community. Outstanding in this regard is the Allan Memorial, the psychia- 
tric hospital, as it is making considerable effort to adjust so that it 
may better serve the acute problems of the immigrant population. A team, 
consisting of a psychiatrist and a social worker, is now working with a 


wow owt 


team of indigenous workers in the community. In addition to working 

with cases, the team is training the indigenous workers to identify and 
assist those in need of help. Within the next month, it is anticipated that 
the nucleus of a clinic will become operational. 


D. The monthly magazine Echo has continued to be a major vehicle 
in the approach to the community. Funding for one year has been secured 
from a private foundation and advertising is now being sought. 


The essential information conveyed by the magazine has been instru- 
mental in creating a greatly increased awareness of the society in which 
the immigrants live, and of the rights and protections that are provided 
by the law. It has, in addition, played a major role in developing the 
understanding of the support that exists for unified communities and in 
the increasing local identification with the society at large. 


Echo, as a concept for communicating with isolated ethnic groups 
has attracted considerable interest from the provincial and federal 
governments and the United Nations. 


E. Mention was made earlier of the summer French program conduc- 
ted jointly by the Hellenic Parents Federation and the Project (A). 
Although this program was aimed primarily at elementary school-age children, 
specific programs were developed in the evenings to involve parents. The 
response to the program was widespread and enquiries are now being made as 
to whether it will be available this summer. 


Project staff have taken all opportunities to develop awareness 
and understanding of the Quebec situation. Considerable space has been 


devoted to the subject in Echo and French is the first language of the Day 
Care Centre. 


A program designed to teach immigrants French and to have them 
examine their role vis-a-vis Quebec society prior to their interacting with 
a francophone group that has examined their attitudes towards immigrants 
has been funded by the Federal Government and will be initiated in the 
spring. Representatives of the Workers Association and the Parents Feder- 
ation are presently contacting the Catholic School Commission in order to 
develop their own French language classes. 


F. Consumer education has been a major feature of the magazine 
Echo, and has resulted in cases with this orientation becoming a large 
part of the problems handled by the information and referral service and the 
legal aid clinic. 


G. As a result of the number of employment related cases handled 
by the legal aid clinic, a series of articles on the labor code and legis- 
lation protecting specific workers was published in Echo. The response 
— oe and as a result the Hellenic Workers Association was 

ormed, 


ieeend 


This organization presently sees as its main function the supplying 
of information to its members. It has contacted the Quebec Labor Federation 
and is now able to call upon its lawyers. A series of seminars, conducted 
by union leaders, dealing with labor law and unionization is planned for 
this summer. 


Contact has also been established with the minimum wage commission 
and a major blitz on local enterprises acting outside of the law is being 
planned for the spring. 


H. The information and referral service has developed in conjunc- 
tion with the increasing wide-spread knowledge and support for the Project. 
In excess of an average of 100 cases are handled each week, many requiring 
follow-up. 


This increasing demand on the Project staff's time has made it 
difficult for a balance to be maintained between essential casework and 
the development work which is the main objective. The failure of the social 
agencies to provide locally based case workers has not assisted the main- 
tenance of a balance. The failure too of the Quebec Immigration Department 
to recognize that the Parents Federation and the Workers Association, and 
not the Hellenic Community, represent Greek immigrants has to this point 
made it difficult for the Project to respond to the increasing demand for 
individual services. 


I. As an extension of the information and referral service, legal 
aid was initiated early in the summer. Initially, the service manned by 
one voluntary lawyer, one afternoon a week, took the form of legal advice 
only. However, the urgency of many of the cases made it impossible to 
restrict the service in this way. 


In the past ten months approximately 450 cases have been handled 
by the lawyer and the need for extended services becomes more apparent day 
by day. In this regard the Quebec Bar Association has been contacted and 
the services of a second lawyer should be available to the community within 
a month. 


Working conditions, housing problems, sales contracts (door to 
door salesmen) and family problems cover the bulk of the cases handled. 


J. Due to the increased demand on staff time and the limitations 
imposed by a lack of facilities, no formal tutorial program was initiated 
this year. However, local college students have developed a network of 
tutoring relationships through-out the community. This method which makes 
use of the homes of the children is probably the most satisfactory method 
of assisting small groups of children. 


K. Recreational programs apart from those that took place last 
summer (see E) have been developed around the after-school language and 
culture classes. Creative arts, drama, and folk dancing have become major 
features of the program. 


<i aie oan 


Plans are now being developed for a more extensive recreational 
program this summer. These will include family picnics, camping for 
children 9-12 years, and swimming, in addition to the above programs. 


L. While as yet no co-ordinating council exists, the necessity 
and the concept are now widely accepted. An important step over the past 
year has been the formation of a federation of Greek regional associations. 
This organization along with the Hellenic Parents and Guardians Federation, 
is representative of the Greek immigrants and together they will provide 
the base for a truly representive council. 


To appreciate the difficulty in developing such a council one must 
understand the deep divisions that exist within this ethnic community. 
That many residents now identify the need for a council and are prepared to 
work towards it becoming a reality is an indication of the success of the 
Project in placing itself beyond the divisive forces but in direct contact 
with the residents. 


M. Several efforts have been made to make classes more readily 
available to local residents, but they have not, however, been successful. 
There is undoubtedly a greater desire to learn language skills, however, 
there seems to be a reluctance to opt into what are viewed as courses run 
by an outside organization. In this regard it will be of interest to see 
the response when financing is achieved to allow local organizations run 
their own courses (see C). If the experience of the Day Care Centre and 
other occasions is repeated, the classes will be highly successful. 


N. A series of public lectures were held throughout the year. 
Topics ranged from the Pill to the F.L.Q., to meetings with M.P.'s. Average 
attendance 200 persons. 


5. Work Plan for next Fiscal Year, 1971-72. 


1. Work will continue with the Hellenic Parents' Federation specifically 
to strengthen the participation of the local school committees and to 
ensure more direct action in attempts to improve the standard of local 
education. 


2. The Day Care Parents' Association will be strengthened to the point 
where it will assume full responsibility for the management of the Centre. 
This Association will in all probability join forces with the Parents 
Federation. 


3. Work will continue on the Medical Centre so that it becomes a reality 
early in the year. A major aspect will be developing local citizen control 
and defining the limitations of the professionals involved. 


4. The monthly magazine, Echo, will continue to disperse basic information 
to the local population. It will be developed to become a source of income 
for the community. 


eared 


5. The information and referral service will continue and will be linked 
to legal aid services and casework agencies. 


6. The Workers Association will be developed so that it becomes a re- 
presentative body able to deal with injustices reported by its membership. 


7. Legal Aid Services will be consolidated and funds will be made avail- 
able for court appearances. 


8. Programs that will promote and encourage understanding and contact with 
the francophone majority will be developed. The various community organi- 
zations will be encouraged to develop their own French language programs. 


9. Work will continue with the Hellenic Students Associations so that they 
will contribute to the development and direction of the community. 


10. Locally based organizations will be encouraged to develop children's 
recreational programs. The Parents Federation will conduct a summer camp 
in the Laurentians. 


ll. The series of public information lectures will continue. Topics will 
be identified by the participants. 


12. A co-ordinating group consisting of representatives from local organi- 
zations will be developed. This group will eventually take over the Project's 
programs and will become responsible for the raising of funds and community 
planning. 


13. Greater emphasis will be placed on the development of indigenous 
leadership. Exposure to the values and philosophy of community involvement 
must be an essential aspect of this program. 


14. Programs will be developed in conjunction with local women. The women 
presently have been least effected by the Project as they are completely 
immersed in their cultural role. 


6. General; 


There is no doubt that the Project is now identified as part of the 
local community. The lack of trust, the fear and the hesitancy to get 
involved, all behaviours that a year or so ago made the task of the staff 
extremely difficult have to a large extent been overcome. This is re- 
flected in the greater involvement in the affairs of the Project and the 
increasingly widespread support for its goals and objectives. 


Observations from those outside of the community indicate that 
there is now a form of cohesiveness that did not exist previously. This 
developing cohesiveness or unity is reflected in the general response of 
the community to specific problems: A response that is now based on a 
common concern. 


svcd 


Simultaneously with the increased group identification there has 
developed an increased interest and awareness in the affairs that operate 
outside of the ethnic group. Much of this can be traced to the fact that 
the local population has a reliable source of information in Echo, the 
monthly magazine. The emphasis placed on informing the local population 
of the total society in which they now exist has been deliberate and the 
response to this date indicates that it is playing a key role in the inte- 
gration process. 


Attitudes on the part of other groups within the geographical 
community have undergone considerable change. Much of this can be attri- 
buted to the changed perspective in which they view the local Greek popu- 
lation, which dominates the area. The increased unity and action on the 
part of the Greeks has resulted in their gaining a greater measure of 
respect and in addition other groups have come to gain from the actions 
that have brought improvements to the local area. The base is now being 
developed for greater interaction. 


Meation must be made in this report of the pressure and harassment 
that has been applied to the Project staff. Threatening telephone calls 
and interfering with cars are instances that have occured in the past six 
months. The source of these actions is difficult to identify but it can 
be explained by the success of the Project in effectively developing a 
consciousness amongst the ethnic population. A consciousness that makes it 
difficult for power-brokers and criminal elements to act as ruthlessly 
and with the same disrespect as they had done previously. 


The Project, which is now at the mid-point of its planned exist- 
ence, has been successful in initiating a process which is resulting in 
the development of unity and an increased comprehension of the factors and 
nature of the total society. Conditions which have exploited and/or 
suppressed the local population are now being challenged while at the same 
time the fears that prevented contact with life outside of the "ghetto" 
are now beginning to erode. 


The method of work promoted by the Mile End West Project has re- 
sulted in a great amount of work being done with other organizations and 
agencies. A list of these organizations, some 90 of them, is included in 
Appendix 1. 


The Project's demonstration of work with ethnic groups has created 
wide interest. The United Nations and individuals from several countries 
have communicated with the Project in order to gain more information. 


ri, 


Agency and Departmental Involvement 


Day Care 


Family Service Association 

Quebec Govmt. Dept. of Family and Social Welfare 
Montreal City Planning, Health and Licensing Depts. 
McGill, School of Architecture 

Montreal Diet Dispensary 

Children's Clinic, Allan Memorial 

Several Foundations and Agencies 

Jewish Allied Services 

Six (6) Day Care Centres 


CONKDURWNE 


French Summer Camp 


1. Federal Govmt., Citizenship Branch 

2. Quebec Govmt. Immigration and Education Depts. 
3. Protestant School Board of Greater Montreal 

4. City of Montreal, Parks Dept. 

5. University of Montreal, Education Faculty 

6. Local M.P.'s 


Information and Referral, Legal Aid & Case Work 


1. Lawyers 

2. Bar Association 

3s SsAcVils 

4. Quebec Govmt. Immigration Dept. 
Family & Social Welfare Dept. 
Minimum Waze Commission 
Medicare 


5. Federal Govmt. Immigration 
Manpower 
Health and Welfare 
Unemployment Commission 
Consumer Affairs 
Citizenship 


6. Hospitals Children's Allan, Montreal General, 
Royal Victoria, Jewish General, Hotel 
Dieu, St. Justine's. 


7. Better Business Bureau--Montreal & Toronto 
8. Family Service Association 

9. City Welfare Department 

10. A.C.E.F. 

11. City Health Dept. 

12. City Rental Board 

13. Conseil de Development Sociale 

14. Montreal Council of Social Agencies. 


Hellenic Parents and Guardians 


i Protestant School Board of Greater Montreal 
2s ” * “ St. Martin 

3, Quebec Govmt., Immigration Dept. 

4. Federal Govmt., Citizenship Branch 

5. City of Montreal 


Echo 

1. All Montreal Media 

2. Canadian Scene 

3. Federal Govmt., Citizenship Branch 
4. Postal Dept. 


5. Quebec Govmt. 

6. Printing Companies 
7. Foundations 

8. Gendron Commission 


Summer Camping 


1. Federal Govmt. Citizenship Branch 
2. Quebec Govmt., Immigration Department 
3. Federal Govmt., Dept. of Defence 


Workers Association 


Lawyers 

Legal Aid Inc. 

C.N.T.U. 

Quebec Federation of Labour 

Quebec Minimum Wage Commission 

Quebec Labor Department 

McGill Faculty of Law 

Federal Government, Human Rights Division 


e 


. 


OnaULFWNE 
. e 


Learning Clinic 


1. Allan Memorial 

2. McGill, Faculty of Education 

3. Protestant School Board of Greater Montreal 
4. Montreal Children's Hospital 


Community Clinic--Mental Health Project 


1. Local G.P.'s 

2. Medicare 

3. Royal Victoria Hospital 
4. Children's Hospital 

5. Jewish General Hospital 
6. Hertzl Clinic 

7. Allan Memorial 


8. Mental Health Association. (....cont. next page) 


o%0o20 


eoeell 


9. Hotel Dieu 

10. Quebec Family & Social Welfare 
11. City Health Dept. 

12. Victorian Order of Nurses 

13. McGill, Faculty of Medicine 
14. Architects. 


Other---General 


1. Sir George Williams Univ. Sociology 

2. University of Montreal 

3. Indiana University 

4. Federal Government, Research Sections of National Health and 
Welfare and Citizenship 

5. Federation of Greek Societies 

6. Jewish Immigration Aid and Services 

7. Institutue of Urban Studies, University of Winnipeg 

8. Foundations 

9. International House, Toronto 

10. Montreal Junior League 

11. U.N.E.S.C.O. 

12. Canadian Association of Neighbourhood Services 

13. Company of Young Canadians 

14. University Settlement 


