Gorr- HEC (Y- Feol- 10 


SUBMISSION 


THE MILE-END FRANCOPHONE PROJECT 


MARCEL VEILLEUX 
DIRECTOR 


April, 1972. 


1. Title: The Mile End Francophone Project 

2. Context: Situated in the centre of the city, the Mile-End is a 
disadvantaged area, bounded to the North by Van Horne, to 

the South by Pine Avenue, to the West by Hutchison and to the East by 

St. Denis. This area has a varied population of 71,500 people of which 

58% are French-speaking. 


Numerous studies carried out in the Mile-End by Federal, municipal 
and independent research agencies, have shown that 96% of the area's 
population consists of a non-specialized work force whose average annual 
salary for the head of the family is $3,800. Closely related to the 
economic status of the population, the severe social conditions are 
significant indications of the difficult existence in which the popula- 
tion of Mile-End lives: 30% of the population lives on welfare and 
unemployment insurance; 40% of the families have a deficient diet; 55% 
of the dwellings, the majority of which were built before 1920, need 
immediate repair: 97% of the population has less than 7 years of 
schooling; 82% of the young people between the ages of 15 and 24 no long- 
er go to school, and 3/4 of them live a life of idleness, since the job- 
market is unable to absorb them. 


The rate of school dropouts in the Mile-End area is the highest 
in the Metropolitan area. of 2,460 registered as having left school 
prematurely in the C.S.C.M. during the 1970-1 school year, 1,092 came 
from two high schools in the area. Already this year, according to the 
principals of the two schools, 1,100 students have dropped out. Further- 
more, a 20% daily absenteeism is a constant pheonomenon in these schools. 


The population is also exposed to a form of private exploitation 
by small traders who sell on credit at an extremely high rate of interest. 
Furthermore, Portuguese and Italian nationals are prey to the greatest 
form of exploitation through the local clothing manufactureres who do 


not respect minimum wage laws. 
Ls 


2. 


There seems to be very little local organisation centered on the 
family unit. There are several parish groups in existence which have 
spare-time activities as well as some charitable organisations which 
give assistance to families in greatest need. Generally, these organi- 
zations consider poverty on an individual basis. Confusing the basic 
characteristics of poverty with its causes, they reduce the problem of 
eliminating poverty to one of individual rehabilitation. Since they do 
not bring about any social improvement, this paternalistic intervention 


only creates feelings of guilt and frustration, or an attitude of 
marked dependence by individuals who have to face daily problems of living 


in an environment which can only be oppressing. 

On the other hand, there exists in a section of the area, the 
Olier residents committee whose aim is to discover the area's known 
problems at the same time, in an adjacent parish their is another resi- 
dent's committee which is trying to create an awareness of the problem 
through a newspaper. The action of these groups is very positive, but 
their efforts remain sporadic and are limited to their own parish area. 


3. The Problem: 


The greatest problem at the moment in the Mile-End area is that 
there is no social organization in existence to which the francophone 
population can resort for their social and economic problems. It follows 
from this that there is lack of essential services which would meet the 
needs of the population, as well as a deficiency of information on their 
rights. This state of social disorganization has created an apathetic 
population alienated from values and ideas of Canadian middle class 
society. 


4. Theoretical Aspect of the Problem: 
The economic and social conditions at the Mile-End: low wages, 


chronic unemployment, social assistance, miserable living conditions, the 
high percentage of delinquency and crime are all interdependent facts 


3. 
which have contributed to the emergence of a particular way of life. 


This cultural adaptation is a psychological reaction of the 
population faced with their inability to confront the problems and situ- 
ations which daily exceed their limits of understanding. Fatalism and 
a low level of social ambition have become essential traits in the 
character of the francophone population of Mile-End. It is amongst 
these people that we find the highest percentage of people living on 
social assistance. 


The effect that these psychological consequences have is to re- 
inforce the prevailing social conditions in the area and to make the 
population settle further into the vicious circle of poverty . Unable 
to follow technical and economic progress and industrial society, they 
thus find themselves on the outside, condemned to a life out of step with 
modern society. 


As a consequence, the objective of the project is therefore to 
promote a consciousness of their collective hardships and of the factors 
which have created their disadvantaged situation. The project will thus 
act as a rationalising agent to help the alienated and apathetic popu- 
lation to pass into the state of a community of conscious residents who 
are informed and capable of acting effectively on community problems which 
prevent development and blossoming of their collective future. 


5. Specific Objectives: 


Animation of the residents of the area: 

1. To develop within the francophone community an organizational 
structure by which the residents will be able to control their 
collective future and transform their environment. 


4. 


2. To develop a sense of community amongst the francophones. 

3. To develop a solidarity within the community which will go 
above cultural and linguistic difference in the Mile-End 
population make-up. 


B. Animation with the area's young people 


1. To make the young people aware of their problems and to 
describe alternatives to them which would solve them. 

2. To develop amongst the young people, a sense of community 
and civic responsibility. 

3. To develop an organizational structure through which the 
young people may collectively express themselves and contri- 
bute positively to the collective welfare of the community. 


6. Description of the Project: 
A. Animation with the residents of the area. 


Since there already exists a structure and community services 
centered on the Greek community which represents the majority of the 
anglophones of the Mile-End, the project, while maintaining close colla- 
boration with the Federation of Greek Parents and affiliated groups, will 
be concentrated more particularly on the francophone community which 
represents 58% of the Mile-End population. This involves all those 
residents whose working language is French. The principal ethnic groups 
involved will be the French Canadians, the French, the Portuguese, the 
Italians and the Spanish. 


Starting by joining the community together, the essence of the 
project will consist in involving all the residents concerned in trans- 
forming their environment through the method of community organization. 
This method will make the residents understand that they can in some 
measure exercise a control over their environment. 


The method of achieving this objective will be to help the resi- 
dents to define their problem and to develop the machinery to create 
solutions. This will make the way clear for collective action so that 
all resources. 


The starting up of essential community services defined by the 
residents themselves; e.g. a local newspaper, legal aid service, a 
tenant's association etc., will be concrete forms by which the residents 
will experience feelings of fulfillment and unalienation. The confidence 
obtained by these experiences will change their athletic and help towards 
a consciousness of the possibilities of development. 


The project must therefore ensure that the residents will profit 
from all situation where they can learn and develop a sense of community 
and that they will recognize the need to establish a permanent structure 
which will assure continuing social participation in community life. 


B. Animation of the’ young people of the area 


On the level of the young population, whose number is around 
19,000, the symptoms of the ills occasioned by the environment are 
normalised in the form of a sub-culture. Drop-outs, the use of drugs, 
vagrancy, delinquency and crime are only a few of the characteristics of 
the problems of the young in Mile-End. 


It is thus urgent, (since their problems are closely tied to 
the social and economic conditions of the community at large) to channel 
their energies in a positive and constructive way, Opening the path to a 
collective action alongside the adult residents in order to transform 
their environment. 


The method of social intervention will be the same as for the 
adult residents, as has been described in section A of the previous page. 


6. 


Beginning with immediate problems, identified by the young people them- 
selves, the social animators will help them to set up a series of services 
and programs which will answer their needs. It is from these services 

and programs that the young people will develop a greater understanding 
of the problems and their environment and will realise the possibilities 
of making changes as responsible citizens within the community life of 
the area. 


7. Scope of the Project 


The process of community development is a pattern for ener- 
getic intervention based on the active participation of aware residents 
to confront the problems of their community.In order to meet the fixed 
objectives, the project will have to lest a period of 3 years. 


8. Personnel 


The project will need a staff of 4 social animators, a secre- 
tary and a director. 
The specific functions of each will be as follows: 


Director: He will be responsible for the direction and the smooth running 
of the project towards the defined objectives. His responsi- 

bilities will include administrative tasks. The editing of bi-monthly 

reports, and the supervision and coordination of the animators' work. 

He will also act as official representative to agencies and governments. 


2 Animators working with the residents: AT first, they must establish 


contacts in order to moblise those concerned and will act as 
organisers. One animator will wokr particularly with residents who want 
to set up essential community services. The second animator will occupy 
himself with residents concerned with the problems of work and consumer 
exploitation. He will also be responsible for making the residents aware 
of the problems connected with poor education in the community. 


2 Animators working with young people: 


Their function will be to make the young people aware of their 
problems and to help them to determine their specific objectives which 
will meet their needs, at the same time encouraging new behaviour. Each 
animator will be associated with a different element. This view is based 
on the natural division of the young population between students and other 
young people since these are distinct problems and needs. 


1 Secretary: The secretary's function will be to undertake the daily 

responsibilities of the office, to help the director in 
his administrative tasks and to coordinate and give information about the 
project. 


9. Administration 


The project will be administered by the Department of Community 
Programs of the Montreal Y.M.C.A. Services will include book-keeping for 
the project. 


As a member of this department, the director of the prdject will 
be responsible to the Montreal Y.M.C.A. On all occasions, as the residents 
committee develops, the director will be directly responsible to the 
latter. 


10:« Evaluation 


The project will be evaluated by the personnel regarding its 
accomplishing of the fixed objectives within a specified date. The bi- 
monthly reports will be a comprehensive resumé of progress as well as the 
problems incurred. Weekly meetings between the members of the staff will 
assure continuity. 

The project will be evaluated further by members of other community 
projects with the YMCA's Community Programs Department. This will afford 
a more objective view and assessment of the whole project. 


Finally, machinery will be drawn up s0 that the residents of 
the area can evaluate the effectiveness of the project with reference to 
their problems and needs. 


1. 


ANNUAL BUDGET 
A. Staff 


1 Director 
4 Social animators 
@ $7,000 each 


l Secretary 


B. General Expenses 


Expense and transport 
$200 x 5 persons 


Office Rentals 


Office equipment & supplies 
Rental of office equipment 
Telephone 

Administration 

Professional Consultation 


$8000 
28000 


5000 
41,000 


3,075 


10. 


$44,075 


$51,525.00 


