MILE END WEST PROJECT 
PROGRESS REPORT FOR THE PERIOD 
April 1, 1971 - March, 1972 


Barbara Katadotis 
Project Director 


Kerry W. Johnston 


Director, Community Programs 
Montreal Y.M.C.A. 


Project Title: Mile End West Project 


Number: 554-1-2 
Sate Submitted: 6/9/69 
GENERAL: 


The Mile End West Project is now entering the final six months 
of its present agreement with National Health and Welfare. Almost at 
the time of the formulation of this report, actions developed that 
indicated that the original objectives of the project are becoming 
realities. The development and the success of the Common Front 
recorded elsewhere in this report indicates that now that the members 
of the Greek immigrant population have attained a degree of community 
cohesiveness, stability and self-worth, they are more than willing to 
cooperate and recognize their interdependence with their French, 
English, Irish, Itaiian, and Jewish neighbours. This and other develop- 
ments certainly indicate that the process outlined in the original 
submission is now proving successful. 


PROGRESS MADE IN PAST FISCAL YEAR: 


a) The Hellenic Parents and Guardians Federation now has 
legally chartered Parents' Associations in 24 schools in Montreal. 
By-laws have been prepared and submitted to Quebec for the umbrella 
body as well as for each of its member associations. 


In the past year, the Parents Federation was faced with several 
major problems affecting the education of their children: 


In June 1970, Park Extension parents heard unofficially that 
of the 740 children (mostly of Greek and Armenian descent) being bused 
+o four schools in the Town of Mount Royal since 1967 due to over- 
crowded cond“tions in Park Extension schools, the 140 pupils attending 
Algoncuin school would ne longer be accepted there in September due to 
pressue from TMR parents who felt that the presence of immigrant 
children in their schools was hampering the education of their own 
children. The Greek parents were upset and requested a meeting with 
the Protestant School Board of Greater Montreal and asked the latter 
to take no further action until the meeting. The PSBGM denied the 
rumours and promised to meet with the Parents Federation representatives 
as soon as possible. The Parents had waited over 6 weeks for the 
promised meeting when they noticed relocatable classrooms being eredted 
in the Barclay School playground in Park Extension. Now the parents 
were incensed. An immediate meeting with PSBGM officials was demanded 
and granted. The parents had first-hand knowledge that in 1967, when 
the decision to transfer three streets in Park Extension into TMR's 
school distvict, TMR residents had opposed the decision vehemently in 
spite of their own decreasing school population. 


* & wiod 


ny 


eee 


The Algonquin School teachers had refuted the charges that the edu- 
cation of TMR children was suffering due to the presence of immigrant 
children in a brief to the Board. After several meetings and extensive 
use of Greek and non-Greek news media, the PSBGM agreed to allow child- 
ren already enrolled at Algonquin School to continue, but to accept 
no new Park Extension pupils. The Parents were forced to accept this 
as a temporary solution in view of the fact that schools were opening 
in less than a week. However, negotiations have already started bet- 
ween the Parents Association of Park Extension and the PSBGM to find 
a more suitable and permanent solution. , 
Another area of major concern to the Parents Federation was 
the introduction of Bill 23 in the National Assembly. Representatives 
were sent to all discussions and debates held on this subject by the 
PSBGM and other groups. The Federation requested its legal advisor 
to confer with various educators and craw up a complete analysis of 
Bill 28, related legislation and its repercussions. This document was 
compiled discussed at length in Federation meetings and finally dis- 
tributed to all Greek parents. Time was procured from a Greek open- 
line radio program for further discussion, and clarification and 
several information meetings were held. In addition, a brief outlining 
the concerns of Greek parents was prepared and set to the Minister of 
Education. 


At present, the Federation has just completed a study with 
local non-Greek committees and the Montreal Teachers Association on 
the problems of inner-city schools (attended by a large majority of 
their chileren). A brief outlining their findings and recommendations 
is now being finalized for presentation to the PSBGM. 


The Parents Federation has also been actively involved in Greek 
cultural and folkloric denonstrations in the past year. In addition 
to the Greek language and history classes which are still being attend- 
ed by close to 3,000 elementary school children on weekday afternoons 
or Saturday mornings, Christmas plays and presentations were held in 
most of the schools where children performed for audiences averaging 
200 to 500 persons. 


On March 25th, the anniversary of Greek independence from the 
Turks, the Parents Federation rented two large halls to house the 
3,500 parents who turned out to see their children perform in plays, 
poems and in the folkloric songs and dances. There were’ tears’ in the 
eyes of many spectiutors. 


b) The Park Avenic Day Care Centre has now been in operation 
for more than < year. There ave presently 42 three to five year olds— 
enrolled with a waiting list of 90. Although there was much frustration 
at the outset due to the inability of the Greek staff to work effective- 
ly with the non-Greek staff because of cultural differences in rearing 
children, regular staff meetings, replacement of one staff member and 
in-service training, this problem is now non-existant. 


cane 


The Parents Committee of the Day Care Centre is becoming very 
active and shows signs of readiness and willingness to take over Fuld 
responsibility for the management of the Centre without delay. The 
possibility of incorporating the Parents Committee to make this possible 
is presently being explored as well as the feasibility of amalgamating 
with another local Day Care Centre which has ample space but no 
community base and is therefore not being used to full capacity. 


The Parents Committee is presently preparing to meet with 
Quebec officials to request that their per diem subsidy be augmented 
in line with increases to other Day Care Centres in Montreal. It is 
interesting to note that prior to MEWP, the thought of meeting with 
"authorities" would have shocked or petrified Greek immigrants. 


The Park Avenue Day Care Centre's case histories reveal many 
exciting successes with problems such as a child who would not or 
could not speak on admission who now speaks readily; several overly 
aggressive children have learned to play more and fight less; children 
who could not be toilet-trained at home have completely overcome their 
difficulties shortly after arrival. 


A Sesame Street Program was set up several months ago and has 
received excellent response. This summer, it is hoped that with the 
help of Université de Montréal's Education Department, an intensive 
but specially-designed French program will be initiated. 


ce) The Medical Clinic mentioned in our previous report is 
no longer feasible in view of the introduction of medicare and Bill 65. 
However, the Project continued to work with local hospitals concerning 
the handling of Greek patients and acted as a referral centre. 


d) Echo--continued to play a key role in communicating the 
activities of the various local organizations and dispersing basic 
information to the Greek immigrant population. All new legislation 
concerning education, consumer protection, unemployment insurance, 
language issues in Quebec were dealt with in detail as was Canada's 
Multiculturalism Policy. Articles on tenants rights, citizens rights, 
in case of bailiff seizures, and other similar legal problems were 
covered. One page per issue was devoted to a series on the history of 
Québee in the Canadian context. 


e) Information and referral remains as a basic service of the 
Project. Some agencies have adapted their services to function more 
effectively as a result of contacts with MEWP. Laws and services 
available are still being translated and dispersed to the community. 


f) The Hellenic Canadian Labour Association was incorporated 
in May 1970. It presently has a membership of over 400 and provides 
services to more than 150 persons each each week, including non-Greeks. 


The Workers Association's services are many and varied. In 
addition to advocating and/or interpreting services fo cases related to 
unemployment, minimum wage, workmen's compensation, etc, the Workers 


ow arcane tt 


provide job placement services to immigrants either of accompanying 
them to their Manpower Office or by sending people out into the 
community to locate available jobs which are then made known to persons 
on their lists of unemployed. 


At present, there is one person available all day who completes 
income tax forms for Greek immigrants who would otherwise be forced 
to pay upwards of $5.00 to local travel agents for this service. The 
same is true in the case of unemployment insurance benefit report cards. 


Much work has been done to help the immigrants benefit more 
from their unions by providing interpreters for meetings held with 
employees. In several cases groups of workers who were working under 
adverse conditions and wished to be unionized were directed to the 
proper channels. 


Besides translating and making available labour laws and 
related information, the Workers Association has made extensive use of 
Greek radio programs to disseminate vital information. e.g. Following 
one such discussion concerning the unemployment insurance entitlements 
of pregnant women, the Association was swamped with close to 100 tele- 
phone calls on that subject the following day. 


A problem of major concern to the Labourers Association is the 
10,000 or more illegally landed Greek immigrants who are under constant 
pressure and become easy prey to exploiters who force them to work for 
ridiculous wages. Having no other means of support they accept adverse 
working conditions after displacing legally landed immigrants or 
Canadians who dared to complain or report the exploiter. The Association 
is presently attempting to generate support for a request for amnesty 
which would solve the problems of all workers affected. 


g) Legal Aid- this service has now been expanded from legal 
advice to full legal service. Arrangements were made with the Bar 
Association of Quebec to have a legal aid lawyer provided twice weekly 
for immigrants in the area who are eligible for free legal aid but 
cannot be handled at the Central Office due to a lack of interpreters. 
MEWP provides the office space and interpreters. Cases requiring legal 
action are referred to practicing lawyers for free service. Here 
again, MEWP provides translators. To date, we have not been too 
successful in communicating the availability of this service to Italian 
and Protuguese immigrants, as they are not responding nearly as much 
as the Greeks. 


An interesting phenomenon of the legal aid service has been 
the heavy preponderance of divorce and separation cases among Greek 
immigrants. Local Greek-speaking lawyers were consulted and corrobora- 
ted this fact in their own practises. MEWP recently approached a 
Greek psychiatrist at the Allan Memorial Institute who displayed an 


cs awd 


interest in helping us develop a research program around this problem 
with other specialists. The results of this study could result in 
family-life conferences aimed at examining and bridging the cultural 
gap faced by families who grow up with one set of values and are 
dumped unprepared into another. 


h) Integration in general has been happening slowly but surely. 
The various groups which grew out of MEWP have not begun to coordinate 
their efforts with those of non-Greek groups around common problems. 


This progress may be related to the fact that last fall the 
Board of Management of the International YMCA made a concerted effort 
to encourage community participation. Five seats were allotted to 
MEWP groups who in turn elected their representatives This has been 
effective in bringing the Greek groups closer to the local non-Greek 
groups and giving them a chance to influence the direction of the 
Branch's orientation while understanding many aspects of the community 
in which they live which they previously ignored. 


Last week a common front of Greek, English, and French commun- 
ity groups succeeded in obtaining much needed playground space and 
monitors for after-school and Staurday recreation programs. Previous 
efforts by individual groups had been fruitless although the lack of 
such facilities has existed for years. This battle was a landmark in 
the work of MEWP as the groups realized that they could communicate 
across language barriers, that they did have common interests and 
problems, and that working in isolation, they could not solve many 
problems. 


i) French Integration Program was initiated as an attempt to 
help local Greek immigrant become better acquainted with their environ- 
ment. A group of 40 immigrants are presently receiving French language 
training. This will be followed by visits to typical Quebecois sites 
to introduce them to the Quebec culture and group discussions center- 
ing on that culture and its significance to immigrants. The group will 
then be encouraged to meet with francophone Quebecers to discuss 
common concerns and interests, exchange experiences, and interests, 
exchange experiences, and ultimately develop an open line of communi- 
cation. 


WORK PLAN FOR NEXT FISCAL PERIOD: 


a) Major efforts will be made to assist local associations of 
the Parents Federation in furthering their involvement in the problems 
of inner-city schools and encourage a greater sensitivity to the 
problems of immigrant children and their integration into the Québec 
milieu. 


Parents associations will be formed in local high schools as 
well. 


seeed 


Work will continue with the Federation to encourage further 
demonstrations of the Greek culture to promote greater exchange in 
keeping with Canada's multiculturalism policy. 


b) Work will continue with Parents Committee of Day Care 
Centre to finalize their taking over complete responsibility for its 
management. This Association will also be encouraged to form an 
affiliation with the Parents Federation and to recognize the necessity 
for coordinated efforts in seeking solutions to the problems of immi- 
grant children at all levels. 


c) The Labour Association will be assisted in the development 
of expanded services. More lectures and media programs will be encour- 
aged to disseminate essential information. 


d) Echo will continue in its present form with its future 
dependent on the priorities established by the MEWP component groups. 


e) Efforts will be made to communicate the availability of 
legal aid services beyond the Greek community to better serve Italian 
and Portuguese immigrants in the area. 


f) FPamily-life education program will be established with the 
help of qualified Greek specialists to promote a deeper understanding 
of the social and psychological forces that are presently destroying 
too many Greek immigrant families. 


g) Greater use of available recreation facilities will be 
promoted. Also, Greek organizations will be encouraged to continue 
their efforts with non-Greek groups to improve and augment recreational 
facilities and playgrounds in the area. 


Parents Federation will be assisted in developing Day Camps, 
and cultural activities during the summer months. 


h) The formation of a coordinating council and/or editorial 
board from local organizations will be formed if Echo is to continue. 


i) Continue to promote the necessity for understanding and 
integration into the Québec milieu. 


j) Encourage further coordinated efforts or common community 
problems between Greek groups and non-Greek groups with similar interests 
and problems. Explore possibility of forming local tenants association. 


k) Continue to encourage volunteer participation in all aspects 
of the Project's activities. 


1) Research local residents to evaluate degree of MEWP's 
impact on the community. 


Budget Requested--April 1, 1970 - September 30, 1972 


1. Project personnel 
Director 
Community Workers (4) 
Secretary 


Fringe Benefits 


2. Travel &€ Sustenance 


3. Office Expenses 
Supplies 
Rentals (equipment) 


Telephone 


4. Other 


Professional charges 
(supervision) 


Rental of Office Space 
Administrative charges 


(bookkeeping ,accounting 
etc.) 


5,000 
13,050 
2,500 


1,100 


500 


500 
240 


200 


500 
500 


250 


TOTAL BUDGET 


21,650 


500 


940 


1,250 
24,340.00 


