NATIONAL COUNCIL 1912-1972 


A Diamand Jubilee shouldn’t pass 
unnoticed; — even if the sixty years of 
National Council is only a fraction of the 
history of many of the more well 
established YMCAs. Montreal ‘Y’ is 121 
years old now and Halifax, Charlot- 
tetown and Toronto are only two or three 
years behind. After all, the YMCAs that 
existed during the first decade of this 
century created the National Council and 
not vice versa. Since 1912 however, one of 
the functions of the National Council has 
been ‘‘extension’’ and many of the 
younger Y’s owe their existence to the 
efforts of National Council. 


REGIONAL COMMITTEES 


To summarize it in an absurdly over- 
simplified way, National Council was 
created in 1912 out of three regional 
committees, two of which were not 
functioning very effectively. These were 
the Maritimes, the Ontario-Quebec and 
the Western Provinces Committees. 
These committees were not isolated and 
unrelated committees however. They 
were sub-committees of the International 
Committee which was the supervisory 
agency for all the Y’s in North America 
and had been since its incorporation in 
1872 just a century ago. Its roots however 
went back to 1854 when representatives 
of the newly created Ys in North America 
came together in the World’s first 
International YMCA Conference to form 
a North American Confederation. 
Canadians had always played an im- 
portant leadership role in the affairs of 
the International Committee. Many of 
the annual and later biennial conventions 
of the International Committee were held 
on Canadian soil. As far as the ‘Y’ was 
concerned the ‘‘great undefended bor- 
der’’ didn’t even exist as lay leaders and 
professional staff took positions of 
responsibility without regard to 
geography. 


There were tensions occasionally; one 
time in the 1850’s a Toronto delegate 
stormed out of a Confederation meeting 
because it refused to take a position on 
the question of slavery. One of the ar- 
chitects of the controversial ‘‘Portland 
Test’’ in 1869 was a 34 year old clergyman 
and active YMCA leader from St. Mat- 
thews Church in Halifax — the Reverend 
George Grant who three years later was 
hiking across Canada with Sir Sanford 
Fleming surveying a possible route for 
the Canadian Pacific Railroad and 
writing from ‘Ocean to Ocean’ as 
preparation for his role of one of the 
heroes of Pierre Berton’s ‘‘The National 
Dream.”’ When the staff of the Inter- 
national Committee started to multiply 
and specialize, they sought the out- 
standing Boys’ Worker on the continent 
and found him in Edgar Robinson from 
St. Stephen, New Brunswick who later 
founded the Boy Scouts in the United 
States and eventually became the World 
Alliance boys Work Secretary. 


*‘SEPARATISTS”’ 


It was to many people therefore an 
agonizing break that took place in 1912. 
At that time Canada had a population of 
7% million spread over a gigantic piece 
of geography. Some doubted that it would 
be possible for a body created by the Ys 
in such a struggling and developing 
country to be financed adequately to 
provide supervisory services from coast 
to coast. But most agreed that it had to be 
better than what they were getting. 
Dissatisfaction with the International 
committee was widespread, with the 
Maritimes and Western provinces being 
particularly bitter at the lack of attention 
they received from the New York 
headquarters. The General Secretary of 
Winnipeg complained that he had had 
only four visits in ten years, two from 
colleagues in Minnesota, one from the 
General Secretary of Montreal who was 
on his way to a convention and one from 
an International Committee staff person 


(who was probably trying to raise some 
money!). 


For the most part, American leaders 
were courteous and considerate, feeling 
that if the Canadians were determined to 
go it alone they would receive nothing but 
cooperation and the hope that the bonds 
of brotherhood which had been so strong 
between the YMCAs of the two countries 
could be continued. There were some 
exceptions, the most important of which 
was John R. Mott. By this time he was in 
charge of all the overseas work of the 
International Committee and was shortly 
to become its General Secretary. 

The formation of a Canadian National 
Council didn’t happen overnight 
however. It was considered by the 
Canadians who were at the 1901 con- 
vention in Boston and again in 1904 in 
Buffalo. In 1905 a Canadian convention 
was held in Montreal and an attempt was 
made to set up a separate Canadian 
Supervisory agency within’ the 
framework of the International Com- 
mittee. John R. Mott didn’t like it. He 
insisted that the International Com- 
mittee should continue to have the final 
authority over policy in Canada. He 
wrote saying, ‘‘you will remember that at 
least four times I used particularly this 
language’’ C. M. Copeland (whose name 
still embellishes a Geneva Park 
building) and who received a copy of this 
letter wrote ‘‘I am quite aware that Mr. 
Mott used such language several times 
and am equally aware that it did not 


” 


commend itself to the gentlemen ....”. 


John R. Mott however was a man with 
an open mind. He came to realize that a 
separate organization to unify the 
Canadian movement was needed. He 
helped His Canadian friends, including C. 
M. Copeland, to persuade the Inter- 
national Committee to call a meeting of 
Canadians to consider a better way of 
developing such an organization. The 
meeting was held in Toronto, December 
29, 1911. Many of the key ‘Y’ leaders, 
staff and volunteers, from across Canada 
were present. It was not a large meeting 


Page 2 


(ADRS CANADIAN 
GOVERNING BOD 


First National Convention of Cana- 
in Y,M.C,A, Associations 
Opens This Afternoon, 


- 


y-+n\t national convention ef Young 
ye tC) Pistian Associations in Canad’ 
1 ope!) in Winnipeg at 3 o'clock th 
~ynoen Principal McKinnon, of P 
Pe: “*slifax, will deliver 

but the list of those attending represents 
‘a cross section of the leadership of the ‘Y’ 
in those days and testifies to the 
significant role the ‘Y’ played in 
Canadian life at that time. The list in- 
cludes such names as Sir Robert 
Falconer (President of the University of 
Toronto); W. M. Birks and T. W. Birks 
(Montreal Jewellers); H. Ryrie (Toronto 
Jeweller); G. H. Wood (Stock-Broker) ; 
E. R. Wood (Trust Company) and many 
more. Key staff people were also present, 
H. Ballantyne (a future National General 
Secretary); D. A. Budge, General 
Secretary of Montreal; C. M. Copeland, 
the Regional Secretary for Ontario- 
Quebec; F. G. Marshall and C. R. Sayer, 
the Maritime and Western region 
Secretaries; G. A. Warburton, General 
Secretary of Toronto and so on. 

Many years later it became my 
privilege to know some of these men 
because they were identified with the ‘Y’ 
for the balance of their lives. They were 
able men with great devotion to the 
purposes of the Association. One would 
not have thought that it would have been 
difficult to choose a chairman for the 1911 
meeting from their number but a strange 
thing happened. They decided that they 
wanted John R. Mott to chair the 
meeting, and he did! Even in those days, 
“Y’ Secretaries weren’t ordinarily called 
on to chair important Association 
meetings, but the fact that Mott was, is a 
testimony to the regard Canadians had 
for his judgement and ability. At that 
time he was 46 years old and was to give 
almost another 46 years of leadership to 
the ‘Y’ in one capacity or another! He 
had served the ‘Y’ since 1886, had 
established the student movement on this 
continent and around the world, he had 
organized the World Service work of the 
International Committee which had 
developed associations in every corner of 
the globe and was to go on to even greater 
things as General Secretary of the 
International Committee of the U.S. 
National Council, as President of the 
World Alliance of YMCAs and was to be 
instrumental in founding the World 
Council of Churches and many other 
world organizations in recognition for 


which he was to be awarded the Nobel 
Prize in 1946. 

At that meeting it was decided to calla 
convention the next year (1912) to con- 
sider the organization of a ‘Canadian 
National Committee”. The following 
principles were to characterize the new 
organization 


— a unity of policy for Canada 

— leadership, the responsibility of 
Canadians 

— one financial appeal for supervision 
in Canada 

— elimination of duplications 

— recruiting and training Canadian 
professional leadership. 


In addition it was agreed that all 
provincial organizations were to be 
merged into one national organization 
with one council, one budget and one staff 
for the coordination and supervision of 
work in Canada. Each year an annual 
meeting of representatives would be held 
and every three years a National con- 
vention of a broad cross section of the 
membership would take place. 


These principles were welded into a 
draft constitution which in many ways 
still stands as a model of what a con- 
stitution for a national organization, 
which is also a federation of local 
autonomous units, should be. Through 
the years it has been tampered with (not 
always wisely) but even today it stands 
as an instructive and challenging 
document — not as a restricting 
deadening handicap as constitutions 
sometimes are. 


In the same way that some hostesses 
have the annoying inability to say 
goodbye to their departing guests at the 
front door, the Canadians (courteous 
gentlemen to a man) avowed that their 
close relations with their American 
colleagues would continue as before. 
‘«’.. Nothing in this constitution’’, they 
said, “‘is intended to change the relations 
now existing between the local 
Associations of Canada and the Inter- 
national Committee”’. 


These gracious words probably didn’t 
fool anyone because the changes were 
basic and almost complete. There were 
however a few areas that would continue 
on a North American basis — World 
Service, International Conventions, the 
Year Book and the Professional 
Organization. 


WORLD SERVICE 


Continued to be a joint U.S-Canadian 
effort of great significance for the next 
sixty years and is only now being phased 
out with the Canadian effort being 
separated from the American. Up until 
1956 over 800 fraternal secretaries had 
been sent abroad to develop Y work and 
many millions of dollars had been 


donated from North America to establish 
work in over 40 countries for which the. 
International Committee took respon- 
sibility. The Canadian share of World 
Service continued to be greater than its 
proportion of the North American. 
movement — whether the measurement 
is in terms of money donated or the 
number of men who served overseas as 
fraternal secretaries. 


INTERNATIONAL CONVENTIONS 


were continued but lost much of their 
relevance for Canadians during and after 
the first world war. However three im- 
portant conventions were held in 1931, 
1946 and 1951 in which Canadians par- 
ticipated with great enthusiasm. The 1931 
convention produced the famous 
Cleveland Statement of Purpose for the 
YMCAs of North America. Its wording 
is: 


“The Young Men’s Christian 
Association we regard as being in its 
essential genius a world wide 
fellowship of men and boys united in 
common loyalty to Jesus Christ for 
the purpose of building Christian 
personality and a Christian Society”’. 


The acceptance of this statement 
represented a long delayed victory for 
liberal theological voices which had been 
trying for a new statement for thirty 
years. Canadians had grown impatient 
long before and devised their own 
statement in 1924 subsequently known as 
the Preston Statement because it was 
passed at a Canadian Convention held in 
Preston, Ontario. Both the Cleveland and 
Preston statements in their original form 
were drafted by the same man — Ernest 
Best, who in 1931 became the General 
Secretary of the Canadian National 
Council. 


The Year Book 

has continued to be a priceless possession 
of the YMCAs of North America. It 
records the statistical records and the 
development of the Movement in all its 
local manifestations every year. 
Researchers and students would be 
severely handicapped by not having 
access to these data which the ‘Y’ has 
been recording since the 1880s. To many 
local Associations it represents a tedious 
annual chore and it is not as accurate as 
it should be in recording program and 
membership data. Curiously enough 
however it is extremely accurate in 
recording financial data as community 
pressures and board members have 
always insisted on careful financial 
records. It is devoutly to be hoped that 
the year book continues in some form 
with data comparable to those ac- 
cumulated over the years. 


The Professional Organization 

for the YMCAs of North America that 
continued through the years has, with the 
exception of World Service been the most 
vital and valuable joint effort of the 
Canadian and American movements. 
Professional societies were organized in 
every aspect and specialization of ‘Y’ 
work under the umbrella of one 
professional organization which has had 
a series of names, the best known of 
which was the Association of Secretaries. 
The professional staff across the con- 
tinent unified in this way worked 
together on projects in the various 
disciplines which made up the YMCA 
fabric — from Physical Education to 
Group Work, from Counselling to 
Administration. Training programs and 
security provisions (including an in- 
surance scheme and the YMCA 
Retirement fund) stabilized and thus 
raised the competence of the YMCA 
profession during succeeding decades. 
These close working relationships with 
American colleagues continue in matters 
of economic security and personnel 
work. Although there continues to be a 
great deal of sharing of leadership and 
resources across the border in matters 
having to do with professional 
development, Canadians in the 1960s 
formed their own professional society 
currently called the Canadian 
Association of ‘Y’ Personnel. 


THE CONSTITUTIONAL 
CONFERENCE 


The purpose of the 1912 meeting 


therefore was to form a_ national 
organization for Canada. It was decided 
to hold itin Winnipeg because of the three 
regional organizations in Canada, the 
west seemed to be the most reluctant. At 
this point in our history the west was 
experiencing its greatest period of ex- 
pansion. The future seemed to belong to 
that part of the country. The decade 
between 1904 and 1913 saw two and a half 
million immigrants come to Canada (our 
greatest period of immigration, far 
exceeding even that of the post World 
War II era). The big attraction was the 
great western plains which promised 
prosperity for unlimited numbers. 
Western cities were being established 
and were growing fast. Any good self- 
respecting city had to have a YMCA and 
many were established often in cities 
whose population hadn’t yet grown to the 
point where the facilities that were built 
were economically justified. Some of 
them were struggling for survival and 
needed help. The International Com- 
mittee in New York might as well have 
been on another planet for all the good it 
was in helping these struggling 
associations. Possible help from Eastern 
Canada was regarded with some 


suspicion too. The Liberals had called an 
October election in 1911 and Laurier was 


defeated. One of the important planks in; 


the Conservative platform was the 
protection of developing Canadian in- 
dustry — which of course was mostly 
located in the east. Western YMCA folk 
were not strangers to this anti-eastern 
feeling and it would seem that the 
easterners knew it. In any event it 
seemed to be good strategy to hold the 
first meeting on western soil and Win- 
nipeg as the strongest of the western 
Associations was the logical host. 


The meeting was well attended. We 
still have the original book that the 
delegates were supposed to sign in when 
they arrived in Winnipeg; it may not be 
the complete list but it does contain some 
interesting names whose continuing 
contributions to Canadian YMCAs are 
well known., The three regions were 
represented as follows: the West 56, 
Ontario-Quebec 50, the Maritimes 13. 
There are also 10 signatures from 
Americans who were there presumably 
to observe on behalf of the International 
Committee. 


The Ontario-Quebec and the Maritime 
Committees came to the conference 
ready to approve the constitution and 
establish a National Council. But the 
Western group hadn’t yet decided so the 
conference adjourned briefly to give 
them an opportunity to hold a caucus and 
decide. They decided favourably and the 
constitution was passed unanimously. 


W. M. Birks of Montreal was elected 
the first President and G. H. Wood of 
Toronto, Chairman of the Executive 
Committee. These were logical choices 
because of their previous prominence in 
YMCA affairs, but the selection of 
Charles Bishop as the first National 
General Secretary came as a surprise. 
Although he was doing student work in 
the West and was very young — logical 
prerequisites — he was not known 
nationally. It has been assumed that 
John R. Mott had an important voice in 
his selection for several reasons. 


— Bishop was University trained,* 


including theology 


— he was engaged in student work 
(Mott’s portfolio) 


— he was interested in foreign work 
(Mott’s prime interest) 


— he had never been a local General 
Secretary! (Mott’s greatest source of 
opposition). 


PREMISES 


The new National Council offices took 
over the quarters occupied by the 


lan a: 


Page 3 


Ontario and Quebec committee at 15 
Toronto St. in Toronto, in which city it 
has always remained. During World War 
I, it moved to offices at 88 Adelaide Street 
East. In the late 1920’s it established 
offices on the second floor of Toronto. — 
Central ‘Y’ on College Street where it 
remained throughout the depression 
when at certain points the staff was 
reduced to as few as five. With the ex- 
pansion of National Council services to 
include War Services during World War 
II, larger quarters were needed and 21 
Dundas Square became a _ famous 
YMCA address until 1950. During the 
war, two floors and more of this large 
building were required but in the period 
following the war; National Council 
activities were confined to the fifteenth 
floor. When rents started to go up this 
became too rich for the Council’s blood 
and a doctor’s office and residence at 15 
Spadina Road was purchased. The 
decade of the 50’s again saw considerable 
expansion of the Council’s work to the 
point where staff members were oc- 
cupying offices in the cellar, the attic, 
and renting space from a labour union 
next door and the Bible College across 
the street. By 1960 ther National Coun- 
cil’s “Canadian YMCA Youth Fund” 
campaign was beginning to take shape 
and after occupying temporary quarters 
at 88 Eglinton Ave. E. for a two year 
period, the move was made to 2160 Yonge 
Street to a building built to National 
Council specifications with room for 
further expansion. 


FIRST STAFF 


The first two years under Charles 
Bishop’s secretaryship augered well for 
the future of the new national 
organization. A staff was appointed with 
an Associate General Secretary C. M. 
Copeland (operations and field work); a 
Phys. Ed. Secretary (John Brown); 
Transportation (Jim Dudley); 
Immigration (Bill Lee); Boys’ Work 
(Taylor Statten); County Work (E.P. 
Stewart); Student Work (E. Clarke) and 
Geneva Park (Henry Yeigh). The budget 
for all this was to be $52,000 per annum. 
Money was raised through contributions 
of member Associations, campaigns 
conducted by area committees and 


Page 4 


wt Khaki University 


‘ree cigarettes distributed was 
Wer 150,000 newspapers and « 
sed over the counter. * 
Wad 300 990 =~ 


1,200.6 


solicitation of gifts from business men in 
Toronto and Montreal. Although this 
produced only about $45,000 each year, it 
seemed to be sufficient and there were no 
great financial worries. 


WORLD WARI 

Then came the war. 

World War I changed every aspect of 
Canadian life not just for four years but 
permanently. The YMCA was affected as 
much if not more than most institutions 
in Canadian life. There is not space to 
review here the magnificent contribution 
made to the welfare of both armed forces 
and civilians by the ‘Y’ in that desperate 
era. The matter has been debated ad 
nauseum even to the point where the ‘Y’ 
was used as a scapegoat by some who 
poured their agony and frustrations on 
the ‘Y’ because there was no one else 
visible to accept blame. The war effort of 
the ‘Y’ would not have been possible had 
the National Council not been organized 
in 1912. The pity is perhaps that it had not 
been organized a decade earlier when the 
Canadians wanted to do it — there would 
have been time to develop a strong 
organization with resources available to 
marshall the vast effort that was 


required. As it was the ‘Y’ effort was a 
miracle of inventiveness, dedication and 
improvisation. 


EXPANSION AND RETRENCHMENT 

Back home program was expanding 
rapidly particularly in the field of Boys’ 
Work. With Taylor Statten at the helm, 
Boys’ Work Boards sprang up all over the 
country. The Tuxis Movement with the 
Trail Ranger program showed promise 
of reaching every boy in Protestant 
English speaking Canada. The Soldiers 
of the Soil program involved thousands of 
boys who would spend periods of the year 
working in farmer’s fields particularly at 
harvest time — a pattern that has been 
emulated in recent times by Red China. 


By 1920 National Council had grown to 
unplanned for dimansions. At one point 
there were 18 full time secretaries on the 
National Boys’ Work Staff alone plus 
another dozen who gave part of their 
time to boys work. 


Other departments were expanding 
although not on this scale. It was perhaps 
inevitable that retrenchment had to take 
place. Finances were an important part 


of it, but not the whole story. The Student 
Secretary organized a conference that 
took the Student Movement out of the 
YMCA (and YWCA) creating the Student 
Christian Movement. The church cen- 
tered boys work left the ‘Y’ and 
organized the National Boys’ Work 
Board, becoming one of the streams that 
eventually came together to form the 
Canadian Council of Churches. County 
Work, although it had had many spec- 
tacular successes in affecting human 
experience proved to be financially 
impractical and so it disappeared too. 
For instance, Cliff Schell and Hiles 
Templin were recruited as ‘Y’ 
Secretaries and Harold Rea first became 
involved as a result of one project on the 
eastern shore of Lake Huron. The writer 
had his first exposure to ‘Y’ work in a 
camp conducted by R.C. Sidenius the last 
of the County Work secretaries who 
worked in Wentworth County. 


GENEVA PARK 

Geneva Park deserves — and indeed, 
already has — a written history of its 
own. Its roots go back four years before 
National Council was formed, as a 
training centre for the Ontario-Quebec 
region. It became part of National 
Council in 1912 playing a vital role for all 
of the 60 years of the Council’s history 
particularly in the field of secretarial 
training. For many years — until the 
1930’s — it offered the only training 
available in Canada for those aspiring to 
Association Work. The largest groups of 
YMCA Secretaries ever brought together 
in Canada were at Geneva Park in the 
years following World War I — 200 
secretaries would sometimes be there at 
the same time doing courses in Boys’ 
Work, Physical Education, 
Administration, Religion and those 
aspects of skill and knowledge necessary 
to be a YMCA Secretary. Although its 
training role diminished during the 1930’s 
and the war years it was always an 
important conference centre for the 
Canadian Movement. The training 
program picked up considerably after 
World War II, but it remained for the 
Canadian YMCA Youth Fund under 
Harold Rea’s leadership and the 
Canadian YMCA Centennial Project 
campaign to make it the significant 
conference and training centre that we 
know today. 


PERSONNEL 

When the Council was organized in 
1912, provision was made in the con- 
stitution for what we now call personnel 
services. Recruitment and training were 
seen as the major task in the early years 
of the Council but it wasn’t until 1923 that 
a committee was organized with this 


assignment and some five years later 
before a full time Secretary (R.E.G. 
Davis) was appointed. Meanwhile the 
work was developed with men like Dr. 
George Pidgeon, the distinguished 
churchman, as chairman and Harry 
Ballantyne, National General Secretary 
doing the Secretarial chores in addition 
to his many other administrative 
responsibilities. The National Council 
President R.F. McWilliams who much 
later became Lieutenant Governor of 
Manitoba also gave important leadership 
to this development together with Dr. 
E.M. Best, Professor of Religious 
Education in Montreal and later to be 
National General Secretary (1931-1937) 
and still alter President of Springfield 
College. 


One of the outcomes of this early 
concern for personnel was the beginning 
of the Fellowship Training Plan. It began 
at McGill University arranged by E.M. 
Best with the candidates working in the 
Montreal YMCA while in college. The 
first candidate was a young Boys’ Work 
Secretary from Sherbrooke — Henry F. 
Hall, the next was from Ottawa — 
Kenneth Norris and the following year 
Clarence McCully from Saint John en- 
tered. These first three “fellowship men’’ 
all received first class standing, giving 
the project great prestige in both ‘Y’ and 
University circles and all three spent the 
balance of their careers in the Montreal 
‘Y’. Norris and Hall’s names will always 
be identified with the development of Sir 
George Williams University and McCully 
was the financial administrator of the 
Montreal ‘Y’ for the next 35 years. The 
Fellowship Training Plan was developed 
in other ‘Y’s in University cities and 
there were times in the 40’s and 50’s when 
nearly 200 young men and women were 
preparing themselves for the YMCA 
profession in this way. 


POST WAR REBUILDING 


The 1920’s and 1930’s were exciting yet 
problem filled years at National Council. 
The problems were mostly financial. The 
budget in 1918 had been $3 million (in- 
cluding war work) in 1919 it was $300,000 
(not including War Services) but by 1923 
it was $150,000 and the staff for “home 
services’’ had dropped from 54 to about 7. 
Associations across the country were 
seriously in debt because of the neglect of 
local work in the all out war effort and 
could do little to help. A period of 
rebuilding followed. Thanks to the ability 
of a series of innovative secretaries and 
laymen working together in a mutually 
supportive relationship great progress 
was made. Although finances did not 
permit a very large staff for the next 20 
years, it was a carefully selected group 
of colourful intelligent men willing to 
experiment with new concepts and new 


programs. Fortunately a large number 
of laymen who had been recruited to the 
many committees of the Council in 
previous years remained loyal and to a 


large degree made up for the severe staff 
losses. 


Physical Education was booming. The 
concepts of sportsmanship and games, of 
conditioning and leadership given to the 
world a generation earlier by Luther 


Gulick and his colleagues at Springfield 
College (including James Naismith from 
the Ottawa Valley who invented 
basketball) were now bearing fruit. 


Boys’ Work got caught up in the new 
educational philosophy that came out of 
Columbia University and the disciples of 
John Dewey. Boys’ Work Secretaries 
went to conferences in the United States 
where Harrison Elliott, George Coe and 
others of that school were active leaders. 
In turn these men would come back to 
Geneva Park for Canadian Conferences. 
The discipline of ‘“Group Work” evolved 
in the YMCA as a result of this ferment 
and youth work in the ‘Y’ would never 
again have a paternalistic regimented 
approach. 


Adult Education was another field 
where the leadership of National Council 
made an impact which was felt in many 
segments of Canadian life. It ranged 
from a new concern for public affairs to 
the development of new universities. The 
first YMCA discussion group that the 
writer participated in was in the winter 
of 1931 in the Hamilton‘Y’. Some of the 
subjects we discussed included The Gold 
Standard, Disarmament, Trouble in 
Manchuria, Sex Education and Liberal 
Theology. Enthusiasm was such that if 
the Thursday Night Volleyball House 
league cut into our time we would come 
back on Sunday morning at 9 o’clock. 


The Khaki University developed by the 
YMCA in England during the war and 
which was of great value in the period 
immediately after the Armistice when so 
many of the armed forces had prolonged 
waits overseas, had a carry-over with a 
group of men who had great enthusiasm 
for the role of higher education. Dr. H.M. 
Tory was one of these. He came from a 
prominent Halifax family whose 
members were always actived in the 


YMCA. He himself came to the Khaki 
University from the University of 
Alberta. His influence was strong in 
developing opportunities for higher 
education in Canada in the years that 
followed. Many years later Carleton 
University was the ultimate result of a 
committee of the Ottawa YMCA, and 
York University was the outcome of a 
Series of meetings held by the North 
Toronto YMCA. Sir George Williams 
University which started as an outgrowth 
of program in the Montreal YMCA was 
the inspiration for much of _ this, 


especially the concern it has always had 
for providing educational opportunities 
for adults who had already embarked on 


careers. 


BALLANTYNE AND BEST 


Much fruitless discussion is often 
engaged in by ‘‘Y’ folk concerning what 
gave the extraordinary vitality to the 
National Council in the period between 
the wars. R.F. McWilliams, Gerald 
Birks, E.M. Best, Bill Cook, Dick Davis, 
Joe McCulley, Sydney Smith and many 
more were all leading participants. I 
don’t think any one person can be given 
credit for all this creative ferment but 
my personal nomination of one whose 
role was crucial would be Harry 
Ballantyne. He was the careful 
systematic administrator who ‘filled in” 
as National Secretary between Bishop 
who left in 1923 and Best who came in 
1931. But he was there before and 
remained after. He was most effective in 
recruiting and encouraging laymen of 
great distinction by helping them develop 
significant projects and see them 
through to completion. He was interested 
in all aspects of the work, encouraging 
colleagues to follow their own interests 
and talents. He seems not to have created 
many of the exciting ideas of these years, 
but he could recognize a good idea when 
he saw one and could help the originator 
make it a reality. It was he who modestly 
claimed that he didn’t have the 
qualifications to be National Secretary 
and in 1931 persuaded several leaders to 
raise additional money so they could 
obtain the services of E.M. Best for 
National Secretary. 


During these years the National 
Council became a national force in its 
own right. It had been created as a 
federation of Associations to provide 
them with services which they could not 
provide for themselves and to represent 
them at the national and international 
level. It continued to do this, but not 
always to the satisfaction of local ad- 
ministrators. Complaints were par- 
ticularly loud during the 1930’s when 
local General Secretaries were com- 
plaining that the National Staff under 
E.M. Best’s direction were getting in- 
volved in all sorts of national issues and 
projects that did not bear directly on 
their obligation to serve the needs of the 
member Associations. As a program 
participant during those years, I was 
aware of those dissatisfactions but I also 
had the impression that the program 
secretaries of that time, particularly in 
the academic world were full of ad- 
miration for the work of the National 
Council, which they saw as quite distinct 
from the struggling local Associations 
carrying on their routine programs. On 


Page5 


anadian Y.M.C.A. 


Study 
Makes Progress 


“dy Commit- All are bneacare 


the other hand many persons in the 
business community became rather 
impatient with these “‘radicals’”’ at the 
National Council who failed to come to 
grips with real life as they saw it at the 
community level. 


HOSKING 


It fell to R.S. Hosking to readjust this 
balance during his 20 years (1938-58) as 
National General Secretary. As a 
member of his staff from 1947 on, I soon 
learned that the most important thing we | 
had to do was serve the member 
Associations. This we did, and to a 
considerable degree it resulted in a 
better family feeling in the Movement 
across the Country. But some of the 
electrifying excitement of the creative 
Canadians who had served under the 
National Council banner could not be 
maintained merely to provide services to 
member Associations. 


BEATON AND SCHELL 
WORLD WAR II 


Dick Hosking had hardly been installed 
as the new General Secretary when 
World War II descended. By this time the 
National Council had had enough ex- 
perience in organizational work that it 
was able both to mount a huge War 
Services enterprise and at the same time 
maintain a reasonable amount of 
resources to keep the home services from 
disintegrating as they had to some 
degree in World War I. J.W. Beaton of 
Montreal headed YMCA War Services 
which placed 725 supervisors in service 
with the armed forces in Canada and 
aborad. C.A. Schell who had become a 
‘Y’ Secretary in the year that National 
Council was founded provided the ad- 
ministrative back up for both Beaton in 
War Services and Hosking in Home 
Services through the war and for 15 years 
thereafter. He was a worthy successor to 
Harry Ballantyné and on countless oc- 
casions his wisdom saved both the 
National Council and member 
Associations from financial or other 
forms of administrative disaster. But he 


Page 6 
Public Recreation 


Executive Committee of “Th: 
4. and Public Reereation Comp 
meeting recently when 1 
he Commission was revie 
Area Con" 


~ ait. WARS 


was much more than just a financial 
administrator. More than any living man 
he has seen the National Council in all its 
phases, having participated with 
program people when they reached for 
new approaches to human services as 
well as slugging it out on the front line of 
debt reduction campaigns both 
nationally and locally. For about 40 years 
he had the happy faculty of being ‘‘where 
the action was’”’ in the Canadian YMCA. 
He was the keynote speaker at the first 
‘Y’ conference the writer ever attended 
in 1929. His insights go well beyond the 
exigencies of administering the budgets 
of what he likes to call ‘‘eleemosynary 
agencies’’. 


YM-YWCA’S 


Cliff Schell was General Secretary of 
the ‘Y’ in Windsor when they moved into 
a new building with the YWCA in the mid 
20’s which eventually resulted in the 
union of the two Associations in Windsor. 
From that beginning the development of 
local amalgamations of YMCA’s & 
YWCA’s sprang until there are now 27 of 
them from Dartmouth to Victoria. This 
type of development is unique to Canada 
in that it has been approved by both the 
YWCA of Canada and the National 
Council of YMCA’s. Over the years the 
two National bodies have worked 
together in harmony and with a good 
spirit of cooperation. Some of the YM- 
YWCA’s however, have not always been 
happy with the services and relationship 
with the two national bodies. From time 
to time commissions have been set up to 
explore ways and means of improving 
these relationships. The usual results are 
strikingly similar — reduce overlapping, 
agree on similar policies, work more 
closely together, etc. etc. Guidelines of 
good standards for united Associations 
have been developed and considerable 
progress has been made — on paper and 
in practice. But always there is a point of 
view that the two national bodies should 
unite. This has not been a majority 
opinion up to now but it is consistent and 
strong. The YMCA National Council in 
1959 agreed. following the ‘‘Dunlop- 
Dewar’’ report, that it was willing to 
consider a union at the national level 
which was probably “inevitable”. The 
word “‘inevitable”’ was challenged by the 
YW, making the point that the YWCA has 
a special mission in-Canadian life — to 


develop the, as yet unrealized, potential 
for leadership on the part of women and 
girls — and in spite of several subsequent 
studies, including one being conducted 
currently, the situation remains un- 
changed. Except for a few impatient 
leaders, the Council has not pressed the 
cause of national union, although it has 
expressed a willingness to embark on the 
task of working out all the agreements 
that would be necessary to effect such a 
development. Many YWCA leaders still 
remain unconvinced that their basic goals 
could be achieved if the two movements 
were to unite. 


NATIONAL PRESIDENTS 


During the late 1950’s and until the 
present time, National Council was 
blessed with a series of remarkable 
Presidents. Their leadership elevated the 
Council once again to a position where it 
could take pride in its own strengths. 
Instead of being merely the humble 
servant of its members, it started to 
become a voice in national affairs once 
more, while giving more positive 
leadership to Association affairs. The 
President who “‘broke the mould’’ and set 
a new pattern was Basil Tippet who in- 
sisted that the officers of National 
Council meet every week and plan 
together the changes and new departures 
that needed to be made. The officers 
responded. Regional conferences were 
organized, laymen did regular cross 
country (and international) trips. A new 
plan of organization and changed port- 
folios were developed for the national 
staff and a program of enlistment of key 
leaders in the work of the Council was 
initiated. J. Hiles Templin succeeded 
him, followed the plan and was tireless in 
visiting Associations across the Country 
building a unity and national fellowship 
that had been lacking for some time. 


As a result of this intensive in- 
volvement in the work of the Council it 
became clear to the officers that it was 
inadequately financed, poorly housed 
and severely lacking in resources to do 
the job that was seen to be necessary. 
Meetings were held with the key General 
Secretaries of the larger city 
Associations, with business leaders and 
with the council staff. It was decided that 
a major financial campaign would be 
necessary. 


To the next President, John Magwood, 
fell the task of ‘‘making it happen’’. It 
was agreed that it could happen only if 
the right man could be found to give 
leadership. He had to be a business man 
known nationally as a man of integrity 
whose life purposes were consistent with 
YMCA goals. W. Harold Rea was the 
obvious choice. Fortunately we had the 
right people to approach him because 


John Magwood was a member of the 
same Church and Hiles Templin was 
born in the same town — Kincardine, 
Ontario. So we all took Harold to lunch; 
He didn’t say ‘‘yes’’ but he didn’t say 
‘no’. Some weeks later after several 
meetings in his office and sharing our 
plans and aspirations with him, and after 
a trip of assessment to Geneva Park 
(which he said looked the same as the 
last time he’d seen it, which was in 1928), 
he said ‘‘yes’’. This was in the summer of 
1961. Ten months later on an objective of 
$1,750,000 we had raised $2,100,000. Every 
section of the country responded, $250,000 
were donated by members of the 
National Board. YMCA Secretaries gave 
$35,000 including members of the 
national staff who gave 10 percent of 
their annual income, spread over a three 
year period. With the proceeds of the 
campaign we: 


— built a new headquarters for 
National Council at 2160 Yonge St. 


— built Geneva Court and rehabilitated 
Geneva Park 


— allocated $185,000 for recruiting, 
training and development of YMCA 
Secretaries 


— allocated $400,000 for the establish- 
ment of new Associations 


— allocated $80,000 for research and 
lay leadership training. 


Harold Rea later assumed the 
Presidency of National Council for a 
period of three years during which time a 
team of management consultants was 
engaged to develop an organization plan 
that would enable the Council to use its 
resources most effectively to achieve its 
goals. Another ‘‘quiet’’ campaign was 
held to complete the job at Geneva Park 
out of which a residence for 100 more 
guests was built and a conference centre 
with an auditorium was completed as a 
Centennial project for the Canadian 
YMCA. It was opened in the summer of 
1966 in advance of Canada’s Centennial 
so that it could be functioning well by the 
time 1967 dawned. 


Maurice Strong succeeded Harold Rea 
as President and promoted a series of 
National — local _ conferences 
culminating in the conference held at 
York University in June 1968. This was 
attended by 500 delegates from nearly 
every Association, the largest conference 
held by the Canadian YMCA in 
generations. Half of the delegates were 
under 30 years of age many of them still 
in their teens. This conference gave to 
the Movement a set of ‘“‘York Goals”’ the 
implementation of which fell to the next 
President John Carson. These goals were 
agreements made by the Movement for 


priorities for the next four years. They 
had to do with 


— increasing the proportion of youth, 
women and minority groups in 
Association decision making bodies. 


— developing a new Statement of 
Purpose 


— extending the scope of the ‘Y’ into 
the community. 


— strengthening professional 
leadership and lay leadership 


— developing methods for the ‘Y’ to 
express itself more effectively on social 
issues 


— increasing the financial resources 
for the Council and for local work 


_ improving communication 
throughout the movement 


Conferences were held in every region 
on these goals and considerable progress 
was made in implementation. National 
Staff members were deployed with work 
on these goals as a priority for a year. 
The services of Dr. H. Dimock of Sir 
George Williams University were 
retained to guide this progress. At the 
next Annual Meeting, President John 
Carson elaborated on these goals and 
challenged the ‘Y’ to be more effective in 
working for national unity and in serving 
the deprived members of Canadian 
society. 


Many of the tasks implied in these 
goals required careful study and con- 
sultation with leaders in member 
Associations. Under the guidance of the 
next President, Holbrook Davis, Task 
Forces were created to work on those 
questions. One worked on lay structure 
and organization, another on United 
Appeal relations, another on financing 
the National Council and two more in 
cooperation with the YWCA on questions 
relating to the place of YM-YWCA’s and 
the relations between the two 
Movements. 


REPRESENTING THE MOVEMENT 


At different periods in its history the 
National Council has devoted various 
proportions of its resources and energies 
to representing the Canadian YMCA with 
other national bodies, with governments 
and with international 
The original constitution placed great 
emphasis on this and that clause remains 
in the constitution. In recent years a 
great deal more attention and time is 
being given to this function. The creation 
of an office in Ottawa in 1970 with full 
time staff increased the opportunities for 
the YMCA to enhance its role in relation 


with other national agencies, with 
departments of the federal government 
and with international bodies such as the 
World Alliance and United Nations. A 
great deal remains to be done because 
the ‘Y’ has not been known well at this 
level in recent years. 


A similar situation had existed with 
regard to representation at the in- 
ternational level. Until 1967 the Canadian 
‘Y’ was a part of the International 
Committee which took responsibility for 
overseas extension work and relation- 
ships with other Movements. The 
National Council of Canada was 
represented at the World Alliance but it 
was a nominal relationship and the 
tendency was to “let the folks in New 
York do it’’. 


In the late 1940’s Hiles Templin was 
asked to represent the Canadian ‘Y’ at 
World Alliance meetings. He was told it 
was not an onerous responsibility and 
that there was no need to worry about 
attending all the meetings. He’s not the 
kind of man who responds en- 
thusiastically to assignments of that 
nature. If a task isn’t worth doing 
completely, it’s not worth doing, is his 
usual point of view. Anyway he went. He 
soon became Chairman of the World 
Boys’ Work Committee and chaired two 
major World Boys’ Work Conferences in 
France and Holland. He continued to 
make his lonely pilgrimages to world 
meetings and gradually interested other 
Canadians in the importance of Canada’s 
responsibility for giving leadership at the 
world level. At the World Council 
meeting in Geneva in 1961, Canada had a 
fair sized delegation. In 1965 in Japan it 
was larger (21) and still larger in 1969 in 
Nottingham gwhere Canada impressed 
the World Movement by having over half 
its voting delegation under 25 years of 
age. All of the standing committees and 
the two commissions of the World 
Alliance now have Canadian members 
and Canadians such as Ken Lawson, 
Niels Petersen and Maurice Strong, in 
addition to Hiles Templin, have chaired 
or are chairing some of these important 
world groups. 


Those of us who believe strongly in the 
responsibility Canada has at this level 
and the significance of the contribution it 
has to make, were greatly encouraged 
this year when Rix Rogers the new 
General Secretary of National Council, in 
spelling out to the National Board the 
priorities he saw for the period im- 
mediately ahead, placed participation in 
the affairs of the World Alliance high on 
the list of these priorities. 


Ottawa 1972 
' Les Vipond 


(In developing this sketchy outline of 
the history of National Council, the 


Page 7 
writer has made generous use of: 


“The YMCA in Canada’ by Murray 
Ross and 


“History of the YMCA in North 
America”’ by C. Howard Hopkins. In 
addition, C. A. Schell has helped by 
writing his recollections of several 
aspects of Council activity through the 
years. He and J. W. Patterson of Toronto 
are the only living men we know of, who 
were in the ‘Y’ when the Council was 
organized and who remained active in it 
for the past 60 years. I was born long(?) 
after the Council was organized but my 
father attended National Council Annual 
Meetings as early as 1917 to which he 
would often refer. I had the privilege of . 
knowing most of the men referred to in 
this article and can recollect many 
discussions with such men as E. M. 
Robinson, John R. Mott, Harry 
Ballantyne, George Patterson, Lou 
Buckley, Ernie Best and Charlie Bishop, 
not to mention the young fellows like 
Hiles Templin, Cliff Schell, Dick Davis, 
Dick Hosking and Pat Patterson. 


COMMENT: 


Les Vipond, with his characteristic 
modesty has neglected to mention the 
breadth of his own contribution to the 
growth of the Council over the twenty- 
five year period of his services on the 
National Staff, notably as General 
Secretary from 1958 to 1970. 


He joined the Council in a professional 
capacity in 1947 as Secretary for Boys’ 
Work and successively served as 
Secretary for Personnel Services and 
Executive Secretary for Personnel, 
Program and Research. At the present 
time he is making a significant con- 
tribution to the Council as its Ottawa 
plenipotentiary. 


Those of us who have worked with Les 
over the years have come to respect his 
sound judgment in weighing the 
divergent influences that have con- 
tributed to the growth of the YMCA’s 
impact on the national scene and his 
ability to reconcile varying staff and lay 
points of view. Truly, his balance, and his 
ability to maintain a warm personal 
relationship with so many over such a 
long period of the Council’s history en- 
titled him to a preeminent place in its 
annals. 


(John M. Magwood, Q.C., 

Past President, 

The National Council of YMCAs of 
Canada) 


national 
council 


PRESIDENTS OF 
NATIONAL COUNCIL 


W. H. Birks, Montreal, 1912-1914 

G. H. Wood, Toronto, 1915-1920 

Abner Kingman, Montreal, 1921-1923 
Hon. R. F. McWilliams, Winnipeg, 1924- 
1928 

J. A. Machado, Ottawa, 1929-1931 
Gerald W. Birks, Montreal, 1932-1933 
Edward E. Reid, London, 1933-1936 
Russel T. Kelley, Hamilton, 1937-1938 
Dr. Sidney E. Smith, Winnipeg, 1939-1941 
Lloyd E. Shaw, Halifax, 1942-1943 

H. Jasper Humphrey, O.B.E., Montreal, 
1944-1949 

John M. Pritchard, Montreal, 1950-1956 
C. F. Basil Tippet, Toronto, 1957-1958 
J. Hiles Templin, Hamilton, 1959-1960 
John M. Magwood, Q.C., Toronto, 1961- 
1962 

W. Harold Rea, Toronto, 1963-1965 
Maurice F’. Strong (now United Nations), 
1966-1967 

John J. Carson, Ottawa, 1968-1969 
Holbrook R: Davis, Montreal, 1970— 


2160 Yonge Street, Toronto 


LEADERSHIP 


THROUGH 
THE YEARS 


CHAIRMEN OF THE 
GENERAL EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 


H. M. Peacock, 1927-1931 

R. G. Dingman, 1932-1934 

Chas. Bauckham, 1935-1937 

W. J. Lind, 1938-1939 

H. R. Frost, 1939-1945 

J. A. Northey, 1946-1955 

George E. Edmonds, Q.C. 1956-1960 
Bruce A. MacDougall, 1960-1967 
John F. Girvan, 1967-1968 


In 1968 name changed to NATIONAL 
BOARD 


William H. Woodrow, 1968-1970 
Niels F. Peterson, 1970 — 


GENERAL SECRETARIES 


Dr. Charles W. Bishop, 1912-1921 
Harry Ballantyne, 1922-1931, 1936-1937 
Dr. Ernest M. Best, 1932-1936 

Dr. Richard Hosking, 1938-1958 
Leslie Vipond, 1958-1970 

Rix G. Rogers, 1971 — 


Geneva Park, Ontario 


) ~* Program, ma 

Y Kh wency 

Pe 

Tee - Q 

Ye lea ret, ° 

13 € 

Seq 5909 a lisy buy Crsip 

Mey . th a W ay 1 Was ‘ Ty 
« § 
Sah Be 200 gy 
ana 


a demonstration, in the 

r of Jaymen and 

¥.M.C.A. Mover 
ut Int?” 


snned as secre: 


owing numbe 
*snadian 


ani cr vices *% 
ee 100,000 Callers seeking ; 
sonal Services hava, 8 Mun. 


