KAMP KANAWANA 


263 


DIRECTOR'S REPORT 


CAMPING & OUTDOOR EDUCATION BRANCH 
MONTREAL 


YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION 


KAMP KANAWANA DIRECTOR'S REPORT 


TO AUGUST 5, 1973 


It is not without sadness that I write this, my last report 
on Kamp Kanawanae To me, the summer of 1973 was the best one, in 
the three years I was involved, from the point of view of operation, 
program, staff, spirit in general and weather. My reasons for 
leaving the Association are in no way connected with Kanawana, it 
will always be near and dear to my heart. 


Although registration was somewhat lower than last year it did 
pick up during the summer and the final figure, I understand, will 
not be nearly as bad as the June projections indicated. In spite 
of sound, professional opinions that the main reason for poor 
registration was late or inadequate promotion I still maintain 
that last summer's weather did not help and I am just as convinced 
that this summer's weather will help next year's registration. 

I don't mean by this that we shouldn't advertise early and 
adequately but that we can look forward to some "outside" help. 


Recruitment and hiring of staff went well with a roughly 50% 
returnee rates The only problem area at the opening of camp was 
the infirmary. The nurse we had hired was forced to withdraw her 
services due to a family problem which would have made her emotion- 
ally unable to cope with the job had we held her to her contract. 
We were fortunate in having the help of a fourth year medical 
student until July lst and using Kathy MacLellan, last year's 
nursing assistant until the second period when Mrs.e Leslie Bliss, 
R.N. (last year Associate Business Manager) came up to bail us 
out for the remainder of the summer. We had to release one girl 
counsellor during pre-camp as she was unqualified physically and 
emotionally for camp work and another after the first period for 
poor attitude and being A-W.-O-L. overnight. 


Four pre-pre-camp sessions were held in town with staff, deal- 
ing with organization, program and schedules, first aid, psychology 
and naturelore. For the latter three, specialists were recruited 
in the persons of Barry Burroughs, St. John's Ambulance Instructor, 
Dr. George Mager, Psychologist specializing in children and youth 
and Les Borzormeny, Biology Teacher from Lindsay Place High School. 
These sessions were not only informative but served to acquaint 
the staff with each other and to get them "together" before going 
up to campe My thanks to the resource people, specially Barry 
Burroughs and George Mager who came free of charge. 


sD i 


During the actual pre-camp training at camp, emphasis was put 
on the activities that make up the camp program eege aquatics 
(including life-saving and A.R-), canoeing, sailing, camp craft, 
tripping, games (outdoor and indoor), arts and crafts, orienteering 
etcee.s A post pre-camp training evaluation questionnaire answered 
by the staff indicated that on the whole it was a valuable time 
which left them far more ready to handle their tasks once the 
campers arrived. 


The only consistently negative feed-back on the questionnaire 
was concerning a session put on by the International Program Depart- 
ment wherein they played a simulation game, controlled by the 
resource people, called "Star Power". The session seemed to be 
totally irrelevant to our pre-camp training and only served to 
disrupt the unity which was forming amongst the staff. The brief 
talk given by Ross Bannerman was remembered as a high point of 
training camp, touching people's feelings and relating to the 
values of the camping experience and the impact it can make on 
both campers and staff. I believe everyone got something positive 
from it. 


The design and co-ordination of program was excellently 
handled by Derek Walsh as was his supervision and operation of the 
camp in my absencee Derek had been a camper at Kanawana many years 
ago but was a newcomer on staff. In spite of this, his many years 
of experience in other camps in many capacities from camper, through 
Cel.eTe to camp director plus his open personality made him well 
accepted by even the most senior of our staff. With his skills and 
experience he brought many new programs and games to camp which 
were very successful. It was a comfort to me, leaving camp early 
as I did, knowing he was there to carry-on. The many weeks of his 
own time he put in at the office and at home prior to camp were an 
enormous help in getting us off the ground in such good shape. My 
thanks to him. 


The four Section Directors used in lieu of two §.D-.s and four 
head Counsellors as last year was a much better system. It gave 
them less people to supervise thus permitting them to be more 
involved in programe They did a fine job, particularly the junior 
camp S-Des Eva Menzak and Bob Fyfe. 


jt Ses 


Another outstanding area was the Hike and Trip Department. The 
contribution made by Perry Olshansky to this program has, in my 
opinion, pulled Kanawana back up to being one of the top camps in 
the country in terms of tripping, canoeing and camp craft. In his 
third year on staff (senior counsellor, section director, now Hike 
and Trip director) Perry was sent to the Canadian Canoe School, 
before camp, and obtained his Instructor's Certificate. The skills 
he learned there plus his own boundless energy and enthusiasm made 
his department the busiest in camp during the first half of the 
summers He had everyone motivated, campers and staff alike, in 
taking his courses to upgrade their skills for out-tripping. 


He developed corps of canoe instructors and camp craft instruct- 
ors who were kept busy morning, afternoon and evening and not many 
meals went by without some camp craft awards being presented. 


During the third period Perry was able to free himself up to 
lead an exploratory canoe trip down Thirty-one Mile Lake through 
to Lake Pensichangan via some other small lakes. This trip was 
highly successful and out of it have been developed a number of 
alternative routes for a variety of age and skill groupse The area 
lies south of Maniwaki and east of the Gatineau with easy access 
for drop-offs and pick-ups requiring no more, and often less, 
driving than some of our traditional trips. 


In the aquatics department, both waterfronts were well run and 
supervised by Wendell White and Jane Bannerman with Wendell being 
the senior person. We were fortunate in having people running this 
area who are certified in life-saving and swim instruction at a 
national level and it showed up in their programs. Wendell ran 
two Bronze courses for C.I.T.s and staff which were well attended. 
A Royal Life Saving Society examiner was brought in to test the 
candidates and of those who took the courses all the C.I.T.es and 
most of the staff obtained their medallions. 


On Jane's junior waterfront, many non-swimmers learned some 
swimming and many swimmers improved a great deal. The activity in 
the YMCA Card instruction program was heavy all summer with a large 
number of juniors attaining higher card levels. 


Sailing was much bigger this year with the addition of four new 
two man "Arrows". The program, this year became a major one with a 
staff person, Dave Bennet, relating solely to sailing. Much credit 
for the growth in this activity must go to Eric Smart, of our Board 
of Management, who not only spent considerable time prior to camp 
getting the equipment ready but also spent two weeks of his vacation 
at camp organizing the program and training the staff. 


wiv ss 


The only major problem encountered was with the masts of the 
new boats which kept bending. The dealer informed us that this 
had been a problem with some of the original masts produced being 
badly tempered. He just replaced those which were bent and assured 
us that it should not happen with the new ones. 


With the seven "Snarks", two "Cadets", four "Arrows" and a 
"Szabo" (donated by Eric Smart) we now have a sailing fleet of 
fourteen boats and there were days this summer when almost all were 
out on the lake. 


In spite of the good weather this year the Arts and Crafts shop 
was a popular place with its director Jan Chartrand and a number 
of other creative people (including the very artistic Moez Shabudin) 
lending many skills to the program. 


The Business Office was efficiently and pleasantly operated by 
Cathy Bannerman who at the same time did yeoman work co-ordinating 
the movements of the large numbers of C.I.T-s we had in camp this 
summer. Due to her efforts and the cooperation of the senior staff 
the new C.I.T. program was quite successful in its first year. 
Instead of being a separate section, they were integrated and 
trained on-the-job in all areas of camp. They generally seemed 
very happy with this set-up and they were much better accepted by 
the rest of the staff rather than being considered parasites who 
were only evident in the staff lounge and who consumed everything 
in sight at staff snack (summer of '72). 


Very little needs to be said about maintenance as Julien Tasse 
and his crew did their usual tremendous job of keeping our ageing 
facilities in top shape. Considering the size of the property, 
the number of buildings, the amount of plumbing and the strain put 
on it, I can only congratulate Mr. Tasse for his good natured 
patience and cooperation with everyone's large and small requests 
during camp. How he ever manages to satisfy them all in addition 
to the regular work load and still keep smiling will always be a 
mystery to me. 


One area we should look to improve next year is the food service. 
Whether it was the pressure of trying to keep costs down in the face 
of rising food prices or an attitude problem I'm not sure but the 
meals were not nearly as consistently good as in previous years with 
Industrial Caterers. The firm changed names this year having been 
bought out by J. A» Hubert and Sons and they may have occasioned a 
change in policies. 


Bis 


The chef's supervisor, Mr. Timmins, used to come up, in the 
past, at least once a week, this year, I only saw him twice in the 
first three periods and that was near the beginning. The chef was 
out of camp more often than he used to be, leaving his sub-ordinates 
in charge. I believe that had he been more closely supervised he 
might have seen to it that his staff did a better job but this may 
have been partly my fault for not complaining sooner. However, I 
was thinking all the time about the budget and when things had gone 
poorly for awhile they would suddenly improve, we would get a few 
good meals and forget about it until they began to slip again. The 
kitchen boys were hired by the chef, in Cowansville, but were on 
our payroll. This may have caused him and the firm to feel less 
responsible for their supervision thereby leaving us with a some- 
what less efficient operation. The only bright light which should 
emerge, (I hope) in view of all this, will be possibly lower, or, 
at worse, no higher food service costs including wages than last 
year in spite of much increased provision prices. 


Last but certainly not least, without the untiring help and 
constant communication from Mrs. Olga Hall, whose cheerful optimism 
and continued loyalty over the years, through four different Camp 
Directors, we would be hard pressed to make all ends meet. 


RECOMMENDATIONS : 


- All '73 staff could be re-hired unconditionally with the follow- 
ing exceptions: 


Brenda Tooby ) 
Pierre Parizeau ) Do not re-hire 
Pierre Audette  ) 


Al Mongraw does not work well without super- 
vision and does not supervise people well 
himself. However, he does have good skills 

at repairing program equipment (canoes, etc.) 

and could be specifically given this responsib- 
ility and supervised. He tends to put his own 
needs and pleasure ahead of the camp's interests. 
Considers himself a power figure amongst the 
staff and is a great rationalizer. 


silat 


Recommendations Cont'd 


Rick Deterding has good skills but poor 
attitude when asked to do something he 

doesn't like such as being a counsellor 
for junior boys. 

- Kitchen boys should be hired from Montreal Office and at the 
same time as other staff so they can participate in the same 
orientation program and therefore feel part of the staff with 
the same commitment to camp. 


- Spell out more clearly the chef's responsibility in the contract 
with whichever catering firm is dealt with. 


- Send at least two more people to the Canadian Canoe School. 
- Have less CeI.Tes in camp. 


- Get a doctor (or two for one month each) in the infirmary. 
With Medicare this is quite feasible at no cost to us. 


Respectfully submitted, 


Leo J. Robitaille 


August 17, 1973 


