THE MILE END WEST PROJECT 


A study of community development in an 


immigrant community 


Christos Sirros 


Sponsored by: 
The Montreal YMCA 
The Welfare Grants 
Division of the Department 
of National Health and Welfare 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


Preface 


Introduction 


Chapter I: The Greek Community 
Before MEWP 


Chapter II: The MEWP and the 
Issues 


Chapter III: A Theoretical Framework 


for Evaluation 


Appendix 


Chapter IV: A Personal Perspective 


Observations and Recommendations 


14 


27 


36 


39 


Pt 


PREFACE 


The Mile End West Project (M.E.W.P.) was a consequence 
of the International Branch of the Montreal YMCA redefining 
its role in relation to the surrounding community. This 
community, in the north central area of the city with Park 
Avenue as its focus, has traditionally served as an initial 
settling place for immigrants. Through the late fifties and 
continuing into the sixties the influx of Greeks was such that 
the area's identification moved from an earlier link with the 
Jewish community to one as "Greek Avenue". 


This relatively rapid transition of population had 
several consequences. Most notable was the almost complete 
absence of local social services giving recognition to the 
Greek fact. The earlier Jewish community had established its 
own services, however, as the population changed these services 
were discontinued. It was this condition in the area coupled 
with the disunity of the Greek community, for which there 
are ample historical explanations, that prompted the initiation 
of the project. 


The YMCA was instrumental in the establishment of the 

project on several accounts: 

1) it demonstrated a willingness to support innovation and to 
hire non-traditional YMCA staff; 

2) it provided initial funds, both from the Montreal YMCA and 
the Canadian National Council of YMCAs; 

3) it demonstrated flexibility in its structural relationships 
with the project and the local community. 


> A Park Avenue restaurant which became a major meeting 
place for persons involved with M.E.W.P. 


The Mile End West Project was initiated in 1968 with the 
major attention being given to a thorough researching and 
documentation of the community. Full operational status was 
reached in the fall of 1969 with the gaining of a grant from 
Welfare Grants, National Health and Welfare. The funds from 
this grant and the continuing financial support of the YMCA 
formed the financial base for the following three years. This 
financial base did not exceed fifty thousand dollars in any 
one year while the total expenses of the project exceeded 
three hundred thousand dollars. The difference being the result 
of a number of small government and foundation grants and 
community efforts. 


The purpose of the following evaluation is to consider the 
effect of the Mile End West Project on the community. The 
Project's effects, however, have not been restricted to the 
local community and some indication of this can be found in 
studies completed for the Montreal YMCA.* 


Finally, the Mile End West Project placed great demands 
on its staff who since its completion have gone many different 
ways, however, for me the "gringo" of the team those years remain 
invaluable and highly significant both in terms of knowledge 
gained and the persons, staff and community, with whom I worked. 


K.W. Johnston 
* A) YMCA Community Outreach - The Experience of the Montreal 


and Toronto Associations, A. Stinson & A. Clarke 
B) The First Paper - S. Rozenblatt 


— 


INTRODUCTION 


At the time of undertaking this evaluation the MEWP has stopped 
functioning for a year. I feel this may allow for a more 
realistic view of the effect the project had on the community 
and on how successful it was in achieving its objectives of 
citizen participation and action. If indeed the MEWP had not 
succeeded in setting up viable citizen organizations to deal 
with community problems, a year of absence would have resulted 
in a weakening or a disappearance of these organizations. In 
the final analysis this must be the test of the effectiveness 
of a community development project. 


C. SIRROS 
MONTREAL 
SEPTEMBER, 1973 


CHAPTER I 


THE GREEK COMMUNITY BEFORE MEWP 


THE GREEK COMMUNITY BEFORE MEWP 


It is, of course, extremely difficult to give a complete picture 
of a community within the confines of a written report or indeed 
any report. The word ghetto has been used to describe the area 
known as the Greek community. Cultural ghetto is a more apt 
description. The Greek community was characterized by a very 
tight cultural isolation. It consists of approximately 50,000 
people. The great majority are to be found in the Park Avenue - 
Park Extension areas. Perhaps the best way to indicate what the 
Greek community was like before the MEWP, for the purposes of this 
report, is to look at the vehicles that existed for integration 
into Canadian society. It may sound rather glib to say this, but 
in effect there were none. The community organizations consisted 
mainly of associations of people from the same geographic area 

in the old country: the Cretans Associations, the Roumeliotan 
Association, the Iperoton Association, etc. The list numbers 
approximately forty. The main function of these associations 

was social - to bring people from the same area together. This 
served to keep alive the memory of the old country, the old way 
of life, the old traditions, etc. An important result of this 
was to keep the focus of attention away form the problems facing 
people here. These very problems, by providi ng a striking contrast 
(e.g. working conditions, housing, education, etc.) served to 
strengthen the idealization of life back in the village. Each 
of these associations kept some ties with the old country in 

the form of contributions to village funds, to needy families, 
churches, etc. These local associations were made up, in general, 
of people who had not been here more than ten to fifteen years. 
Parallel to the existence of these associations there was the 
official Hellenic Canadian Community of Greater Montreal. This 
association sponsors the churches and has attempted to serve as 
the official spokesman for the Greek community. The Hellenic 


~ 


mas 


Community was characterized by an almost total lack of contact, 
concern, and involvement in the life of the Greek immigrant. 
The leadership was comprised generally of old, established 


families, in most cases quite wealthy, who have been in this country 


since the beginning of this century. There was a definite 
feeling of "they and us" amongst Greeks about the Hellenic 
Community. The membership of this "official" Community hovers 
around the one hundred mark (official figures are hard to ob- 
tain) and General Meetings rarely draw more than seventy people. 


To compound an already difficult situation there existed a 
definite lack of unity amongst even the immigrant population. 

In fact it may be said that there was a state of active disunity. 
Political events in Greece during 1967 served as a catalyst for 
such disunity. Many Greeks had left Greece for political reasons 
as well as economic ones. There were those who wanted to forget 
all about any sort of politics, those who wanted to continue 
their fight against the Greek regime, those who supported the 
Greek regime and those who feared any sort of zdentification 
with any of these groups. Suddenly people who had previously 
been friends began to question each other on the issue of the 
coup d'etat. Suspicion, long a trait of people who must fight 
for their survival, began to creep into almost all community 


affairs. 


In the realm of communications, Greek language radio has~ long 
been a part of the Greek community. Time was bought on CFMB 

and the programme was mainly an hour or two a day of Greek music. 
There also existed a cable radio station, CHCR. There were two 
local newspapers - The Hellenic Postman and the Greek Canadian 
Tribune. Both were primarily concerned with political develop- 
ment in Greece and to a minor extent with attacking the Hellenic 
Community. 


There was almost no contact with the schools, Parent-teacher 
nights were generally poorly attended, and few had any idea 
about what was going on in the schools. 


To summarize, the Greek community was to a great extent isolated. 
It looked towards Greece for comfort and ignored local issues. 
Its own professionals and more established members ignored it. 

It existed in a state of disunity and an atmosphere of mistrust. 


CHAPTER II 


THE MEWP AND THE ISSUES 


THE MEWP AND THE ISSUES 


In its three year life the MEWP worked at setting up organizations 
run by local citizens which would help solve some of the problems 

of the community. There were three major problem areas identified 

by staff members. First was the whole area of education. Contact 
between the home and school was minimal. Parents exhibited a fear, 
one might say, of the educational institutions. Being immigrants, 
not speaking the language well, assuming that one did not question what 
was happening in the schools (a carry over from the old country where 
parents committees are unheard of), not feeling secure in their 

right to be here, all resulted in a very passive involvement in 
educational affairs. The second problem area was that of employment. 
For many of the same reasons plus an ignorance of labour laws, it 
was observed that many Greek immigrants were working for below 
minimum wage, were not getting vacation pay, and were generally 
abused (e.g. welfare rights, workmens compensation, etc.). The 

third area was a more general one and contributed to the existence of the 
above two problem areas. The Greek immigrant was ignorant to a 

large extent of Canadian/Quebec laws, customs and history. They 
were still largely tuned in to what was happening in the old country 
and avoiding getting involved with what was happening around them 
and to them in this country. Daily newspapers, television and 

radio were in a foreign language to them. They thus did not partic- 
ipate in the Canadian/Quebec culture. Their own mass media to a 
large extent ignored the problems of immigrants and focused on Greek 
news. 


The MEWP attacked these three problems on three different fronts. 
Each solution, or attempted solution, contributed somewhat to the 
solution of the other problems. This was so because the biggest 
block to the solution of these problems was the fear of involvement. 
As people slowly broke through 


1 h= 


this barrier they began to feel more and more confident about 
dealing with the issues surrounding them as well as interacting 
with the larger community. 


Indeed, an understanding of why some community action projects 
succeed and some fail depends on an understanding of how people 
can become involved. Although I will again make reference to 
this point in the following chapter, I would like to turn my 
attention to this area now and look at how the MEWP dealt with 
the three areas I have mentioned. 


The Basic Hypothesis 
The MEWP operated in all three areas with one basic hypothesis. 


In Mr. K. Johnston's* words, 


“only when the community has gained the required 
self-confidence, awareness, unity is it possible 
for it to initiate or risk interaction with the 
community at large". 


Working from this perspective it would be useful to look at 
some of the major events and developments in which the MEWP 
participated. 


On an initial level, the staff concentrated their efforts almost 
totally to making contacts and establishing their credibility. 
Secondly, the MEWP took on itself the role of acting as a service 
organization. An information and referral service was initiated, 
follow-up to the immigration department, the courts, etc. was 
done. Once a level of credibility judged substantial was built 
up, then the MEWP decided to begin dealing with one of the major 
problems in the area. 


Education 

In dealing with the Greek population it was a wise decision to 
begin with the general area of education. Education holds a 
certain mystique for Greek parents and they, perhaps more than 
others, if its fair to say so, will sacrifice 


*Director MEWP. 1968-1970 


ms i 


anything for their child's education. Be that as it may, the 
MEWP approached this area from the same basic hypothesis. 

First, services, plain and simple were offered. Greek language 
classes on Saturdays were organized and run by the MEWP. Once 
these classes had established themselves and the MEWP had built 
up its credibility in the area of education, moves were made 
towards a broader approach. The contacts built up were used 

to form a nucleus of interested parents. The topic of parental 
involvement in the schools was first broached with this nucleus. 
After much intensive educating of these parents (see next 
chapter) a first step was made toward the organization of a 
larger group. Out of a meeting attended by two hundred parents 
the Hellenic Federation of Parents and Guardians of Greater 
Montreal emerged. It is important to remember that even at this 
stage this group was still far from well established. It was 
felt that two things were necessary. First, an ongoing ed- 
ucation of this larger group, and second, some concrete achieve- 
ment on their part. The education aspect was done in regular 
meetings with the Federation to iron out its organizational 
structure and identify its objectives. The first hint that they 
were becoming an important force in the community came when the 
Protestant School Board of Greater Montreal appointed Mr. J. 
Kotsos to serve as liaison officer between the schools and Greek 
parents. Encouraged by this, the Federation decided to run 

its own afternoon Greek classes, similar to those offered by the 
MEWP, but in the local schools. A crisis developed when the 
Protestant School Board replied by saying that arrangements had 
already been made with the Hellenic Canadian Community for such 
classes and that further space could not be granted. At that 
point, the Federation took the one most important step in its 
history so far - it decided to challenge that decision. The 
MEWP had worked hard to convince them to do so. A mass meeting 
was called to which members of the School Board (notably Mr. 
Stanley, District Superintendent) were invited. The meeting 
was a more than anticipated success. Over 1000 people attended. 


ie 


The PSBGMas a result compromised and offered space to both 
groups. This one victory, if I may call it such, resulted in 

a distinct- uplifting of the spirits of the Federation, ina 
definite strengthening of self-confidence and in a readiness of 
the Federation to move towards dealing with problems related to 
more general things. Thus, when the School Board decided more 
than a year later to stop students of Park Extension (a basically 
Greek immigrants area) being bused to Town of Mount Royal 

(an upper middle class area) the Federation was able to con- 
fidently and efficiently work against the move. The mass 

media, newspaper and television were effectively used to gain 
public support. It is my belief that this step of “initiating 
interaction with the community at large" would not have been 
possible without first having dealt with an issue that concerned 
only the smaller community. 


Today the Federation has a membership of over 2000 families. 

It has continued its interaction with the community at large and 
exhibits a healthy attitude towards it. As one of the people I 
interviewed said (see Dr. G. Tsoukas) "the Federation will be 


around for a long time to come." 


Employment 


In the employment area the MEWP worked to create an association 
of indigenous workers, to inform them about labour laws, etc. 
and move them to spread into the community with information, 
action and guidance to other workers. As a result of these 
efforts the Hellenic Canadian Labour Association was formed. 
Many of the contacts that had already been made through ventures 
mentioned above were used to create this organization. 


Here again, that one basic hypothesis about developing self- 
confidence was followed. It was only after the members could 
feel secure and convinced of their value by dealing with matters 


= 


of importance only on a local level that they could move into 
contact with, for example, the QFL and CNTU. 


Information 


In the third area, that of information, the MEWP undertook to 
publish a monthly magazine of Canadian news and information. 
This will be dealt with in more detail in the following chapter. 


CHAPTER III 


A THEORETICAL FRAMEWORK 
FOR EVALUATION 


=1S= 
A THEORETICAL FRAMEWORK FOR EVALUATION 


In order to evaluate the work of the MEWP it would be useful 
to develop a theoretical framework of analysis. Stinson, 
Clarke and McLaughlin have outlined a framework of community 
development involving three stages:- 

(a) Entry 

(b) Developing a basis for action and 

(c) Strengthening and extending the basis for action 
To further clarify this framework, I would like to quote directly 
from their writings. 


"PHASE I 

"Entry" is "getting in" to the community. Many community 

projects fail to achieve a sound entry even though they 

"seem" to be functioning at an action level. Involved 

in gaining entry are a number of factors, including: 

(a) an inviting group or agency 

(b) an issue or problem requiring outside resources 

(c) the credibility of the outside agency 

(d) the image of the Association 

(e) the availability of the necessary staff and resources 
to respond 

(f) the availability of funding 

(g) adequate facilities 

(h) changing the program or activities of an organization 
or agency already "in" the community 

(i) taking advantage of new sources of funding 


PHASE II 

Strengthening and extending the basis for action (the 
organization or movement). Few community action projects 
achieve this third stage although there is a tendency 

for many to assume they have: 


ee 


(a) a well defined and expanding constituency 
(b) clearly defined objectives and operating procedures 


(c) independent financing * 


With this in mind let us return and look at each phase in 
relation to the MEWP. 


Phase 1 Factors 


(a) 


(b) 


(c) 


kKK 


Inviting Agency 

There was in fact no inviting group or agency. The MEWP 
was not the result of an agency decision to get involved in 
community development. That decision came only after the 
need for such work was brought to the agency's attention by 
Mr. K. Johnston. The YMCA was only an inviting agency in 
the sense that it finally accepted Mr. Johnston's** proposals. 
Issue or Problem requiring outside resources 

The decision of the YMCA to accept the project solved for 
the MEWP items (b) and (c). Outside resources (office 
space, duplicating facilities, etc.) were guaranteed and 
the YMCA provided the MEWP with a certain amount of 
credibility right form the start. 

Item (d), the image of the Association was a minor problem. 
Up to the emergence of the MEWP , the YMCA had played a 
purely social role in the area and in fact to a small 
minority of that area. The Greek population of the area 
were not involved in any significant way with the 
recreational services the YMCA offered.*** The image of 
the YMCA forced the MEWP to look at ways for changing the 
ideology behind the offering of recreational services. 


YMCA Community Outreach - The Experience of the Montreal and 
Toronto Associations - by A. Stinson, A. Clarke and J. McLaughlin 
Mr. Johnston had been teaching in the community for five years 
Although many Greek immigrants were involved in language 


classes these classes did not serve to develop a significant 
relationship between YMCA and the Greek Community 


i ee 


(d) With the availability of funding (f) through both the 
YMCA and particularly the Department of National Health 
and Welfare the problems of resources, staff and facilities, 
(e) and (g), were solved. 

(e) The YMCA, as I have already stated was not actually "in" 
the community. The physical plant was there but the 
programmes did not interact with the community. The 
addition of the MEWP served to radically change the image 
of the International branch. It did not totally change the 
programme but it certainly did change the clientele. The 
MEWP took advantage of the facilities of the YMCA (pool, gym, 
camps, etc.) to establish itself by developing contacts and 
gaining acceptance. The YMCA branch started becoming a 
truly community building. The people using the facilities 
did not merely use them and leave. These were now people 
that were also involved with other community considerations. 
The International Branch began to be accepted as part of the 
community. In fact the MEWP offices in the building had 
been compared to the village fountain where people con- 


gregated to exchange news and see each other. 


Phase I - Comments 

Gaining entry means gaining the acceptance of the community. 
There are certain factors which made this an easier task than 
it could have been for the MEWP. 


The fact that the MEWP was housed in the YMCA building immediately 
put the project above the community in-fighting.. The 

fact that a non-Greek was the director further insulated the 
project from mistrust. The fact that the Federal Government was 
in part funding the project allayed any misgivings the community 
may have had about the integrity of the funders. These factors 
and a staff that had not been identified by the community as 
controversial served to hasten and assure the success of the 

entry stage for the MEWP. 


=} 8= 


With respect to the framework outlined here, the MEWP achieved 
close to 100% success in the entry stage. Within a relatively 
short time the MEWP was ready to launch itself into Phase II. 


Phase II 


(a) Community groups taking decision related to policy, strategy 
and programs. 


Right from the start, the project staff had to make one 
basic decision; what would be the policy of the MEWP with 
respect to existing community groups? This was one of the 
most important decisions made by the project. The project 
was faced with two distinct types of groups. On the one 
hand was the Hellenic Canadian Community and its affiliated 
organizations (Ladies' Benevolent Society, Church aux- 
jiliaries, etc.) which controlled or had in their possession 
substantial financial resources. On the other hand was the 
large number of groups comprised almost totally of recent 
immigrants with not much money and a lot of mistrust and 
disunity. 


Given the aims of the project the choice in retrospect, was 
clear. The MEWP decided first to ignore the first type of 
group but not to expend any energy fighting them and secondly 
to develop friendly relations with the latter type but not 
to rely on them for the implementation of action. This 
meant that the MEWP initiated no communications with the 
Hellenic Canadian Community but did do so with the various 
regional associations (see description of community). The 
aim of such communications however was to develop individual 
member participation, to scout for leaders, to publicize 

the MEWP, but not to develop group-type work. 


Having made this decision the MEWP was faced with the need of 
developing new organizational structures that would deal 
with the issues at hand. 


=35— 


In its first year the MEWP was basically able to deal with 
the problems of education and information. More will be 

said about information later. Having identified education 

as one of the basic problems and also as the one that would 
probably find the most response in the community* the MEWP 
had to develop a community organization to deal with it. This 
was not as simple as drawing up a constitution and finding 
some members. Once a group of people with sufficient interest 
and leadership abilities were found through the various means 
of contact already mentioned, a long, detailed, often tedious 
education of these people had to take place. In fact, once 
these people were grouped together, about six months passed 
with weekly and often semi-weekly meetings before the public 
heard anything about a Parents Association. This is,however, 
a very important point and one of the key factors in the 
success or failure of any community development project. 

If enough care is not taken to ensure that participants have 

a fundamental understanding of the issues involved then there 
is only a lot of goodwill and no means to put it to use. 


Eventually, a parents association did get off the ground. 
Today, that association, the Hellenic Canadian Parents and 
Guardians Federation boasts upwards of 2500 members. 


(b) Increasing awareness on the part of the staff to potential 


groups and agencies in the community. 


* In this particular case one of the most pressing problems 
was also one that was to find great response. This is 
not, however, always the case. In the early stages of life 
of a project it would be useful, I feel, to seek out a 
problem which will mobilize people fairly quickly so as to 
build confidence in themselves and trust for the project. 


(c) 


=A 


Here, too, there were no existing groups or agencies to 

become increasingly aware of. Here again the MEWP had to 

move on to its own. An information and referral service was 
one of the first services offered directly by MEWP staff. 

Once it was known to the community more than a hundred calls a 
week were being handled. A legal aid service was also 

set up with the services of a Greek lawyer, Mr. E. Hadjis. 
This also marked the first success at the integration of 


the communit y's professionals into the community. 


Increasing awareness of and experience with the communications 
network in the community. 


The communication network of the community consisted of two 
major local weeklies and Greek language broadcasting on a 
cable station (CHCR) as well as time on a regular AM station 
(CFMB). With the exception of the AM programme these 
communications media were plagued by the same mistrust of 
each other and disunity that characterized the community. 
Each had its own axe to grind, so to speak. None of them 
was taken seriously by the community. They existed and 
continue to do so only because there is a tremendous need 

to hear and read something that is in the native language. 
For many, if not the majority, these were the only means 

of getting information simply because it was in a language 
that could be understood. The AM programme on the other 
hand was a straightforward commercial enterprise. Both the 
newspapers and CHCR were willing to devote space and time to 
the MEWP in the form of a regular contribution. The staff 
studied the idea of presenting a weekly radio programme 
which CHCR would carry. This would offer the advantages of 
increased publicity, a public forum for discussion and a direct 
communication link with parts of the community. This had 
to be weighed against the possibility that the MEWP would 
be identified as an endorser of the views of CHCR 


(d) 


-21- 


which represented one segment of the community - the 

conservative right wing so to speak. The risks of becomining 
entangled in the mud slinging between the various factions 

were greater than the possible benefits of a radio programme. 
Instead of any sort of direct input to the existing media 
organizations, the MEWP decided to ‘launch its own information 
vehicle. Echo, a monthly publication began circulating in 

1969. It was sent out to 5000 homes, free of charge. It was hoped 
that it would eventually become a self - sufficient publication. 
Echo served to introduce the Greek immigrant, in his own language, 
to Canadian history and political developments and to local 

issues of direct concern to him. It served both as an informa- 
tion vehicle and as an ambassador for MEWP. More than that it 
served to lend further credibility to the project for it was 

a well written, well planned, well presented and interesting 
publication, which strengthened the MEWP's basis for action. 

In my view it contributed more to the success of the MEWP than any 
amount of input into the existing media could have done. 


Increased experience in cooperating with other groups and 
agencies. 


This is one area where the project as a group did not succeed. 
The significance of this can be questioned. The MEWP had an 
animating function. It served to start members of the community 
thinking and acting in groups. As far as the MEWP is concerned, 
it would be a better question to ask whether the MEWP took 
advantage of the services of the various groups and agencies so 
as to make these available to the community and to the groups 
that were set up. Stated in this way the answer is a definite 
yes. MEWP worked with Family Services Association to set up a 
day care center. It worked with the Quebec Bar Association to 
offer legal aid services, it introduced the Parents Federation 
to OFY, helped the Workers Association to get LIP money etc. 


ap 


(e) Identification of project competence by the community. 


(f) Increasing confidence in the project by the community. 


These two items are, I feel, tied together. If one believes 
that an organization is competent in a given area, one has 
confidence in that organization. A number of events point 

to the success of the MEWP in these two areas. Indicators 

such as the success of the information and referral service, 
the reception given to legal aid, the response to Echo, prove, 
that the MEWP had been identified as competent by the community 
and gained the community's confidence. 


(g) Articulation by the project of a philosophy for change. 


This particular point occurred well before the MEWP undertook 

any action. It is this philosophy, which has to a large extent 

been responsible for the success of the MEWP. Before developing 

a philosophy for change, the nature of the community must be 

clearly understood. In this instance it was an immigrant 

community. The implication of this are; that one is dealing 

with a group of people outside the normal values of the host 

society, that one is dealing with a more insecure group when compared 
to natives of a country, that one is dealing with a group that has 
less factual knowledge of events and situations surrounding them, 
that one is dealing with a group that is more resistant to (or fearful 
of) involvement. 


The aim of the MEWP was to help the Greek immigrant community 
integrate into Canadian and Quebec life, to benefit from their 
rights and to recognize and accept their responsibilities. How 
can this happen, it may be asked, if everything the MEWP has done 
concerned itself entirely and solely with the Greek population? 


ee Ye 


Echo was only in Greek, the Day Care Center was for Greeks, 

the Parents Federation is only for Greeks, the Workers 
Association is only for Greeks - where is the integration? 
Doesn't integration require cooperation with the other 

elements of a society? These are valid questions. Never- 
theless, it is often forgotten what it means to work 

with an immigrant population. To use an analogy - just as 

you cannot take an elementary school child and put him into 
university so you cannot take an immigrant population,and 

expect it to interact with others. There are certain things 

that have to be learned first. There are certain basic steps 
that must be mastered before such a group can work cooperatively 
with others. That group must first find adequate confidence 

in itself before it can be confident of working with others. 
That group must first be able to or have attempted to deal with 
its own problems before it can ask others to help it or offer help 
to others. Once the problems of lack of confidence, unwilling- 
ness to get involved, lack of information, etc. have been 
overcome internally, only then can a group confidently move 
towards cooperation with other groups. When finally such 

a group does move towards cooperation, then integration into 

the total society is well underway. This is why although the aim 
of the MEWP was to foster integration it dealt with only areas 
that affected Greeks. This philosophy of building up confidence 
first and venturing to outside ties later also reflected itself 
in the specific undertakings of the project. When the Parents 
Association was formed, it did not leap to making sweeping 
proposals for changes. The first major action of the Parents 
Association was to ask for space to run afternoon Greek language 
classes - something that has no effect on the regular educational 
process. Their most recent major action however was to sponsor 


Sen 


and elect a school councillor to the PSBGM. They are now 
beginning to integrate themselves. They could not have reached 
that point without having first established the foundations 

on which to build. Nor could they have done so had they 

only had a lot of "good intentions". Those initial six months 
of intensive self-eduction I spoke of earlier bore fruit. 

These two basic ideas, (1) to educate as well as organize 
around issues and (2) to build confidence by first dealing 

with solvable problems and then expanding the field of action, 
pervade the actions of the MEWP. It is these two ideas combined 
that I feel have permitted the MEWP to achieve the successes it 
did. 


Phase 11 - Comments 


The MEWP achieved a remarkable amount of success in Phase II. 
Almost all factors outlined had been successfully implemented. 

A realistic, philosophy for change had been worked out that 
allowed the project to develop its base for action in a 
meaningful way. It overcame the difficulties of working 

in a community in active disunity where mistrust was dominant. 

It further succeeded in gaining the trust of that same community. 


Phase III 


The MEWP was given a three year life. As a project, it no 
longer exists. Phase III can only be examined by looking at 
what the MEWP helped create. If the organizations it helped 
create have succeeded in Phase III, then so has the MEWP. 
This is, I feel, the most crucial of the three phases. If 
the three points listed below can be achieved, then the time, 
effort and money that went into the first two phases can be 
justified. 


a Ba 


(a) A well defined and expanding constituency, 
(b) Clearly defined objectives and operating procedures, and 


(c) Independent financing 


Both the Hellenic Canadian Parents and Guardians Federation and 
the Hellenic Labour Association fulfill these three requirements. 
They are chartered associations by the Provincial Government. 
Their objectives are clearly spelled out and their rules of 
procedures are available to all their members. Their 
constituency is defined by their objectives and both associations 
have a healthy growth rate in membership. Their finances come 
mainly form their fees and activities which they sponsor (e.g. 
dances, etc.). The Labour Association has relied more heavily on 
grant money, however, and there is some uncertainty about how 


long that will continue. 


These two associations have also taken over some of the services 
originally offered by the MEWP. In the areas of employment and 
education they do their own information sharing their respective 
areas much in the tradition of Echo. The MEWP is in a sense still 


functioning through these associations. 


There have, however, been some failures in this area. Echo was 
originally intended to become self-supporting, however, it failed. 
It did not fail because there was no need for it. Voluntary 
subscriptions and donations kept coming in, but they were simply 
not enough. In the case of the other local papers both are 
published by people who do more than just publish a newspaper.* 


* In fact Echo was refused government grants because it was 
felt that it would be unfair, in terms of competition, to 
the other local newspapers. 


ay 


Although I cannot say so with absolute certainty it may be that 
their newspapers are subsidized by their other businesses. 


There is still a need for information and referral services in 
the community. This aspect of the MEWP also failed to carry on in 
a direct way after the money ran out. 


On the whole, however, I feel, that the main thrust of the project 
has managed to reach and successfully deal with Phase III. The 
other services I have mentioned may well grow out of the continuing 
influence of the involvement of more and more people in the issues 
of their community. 


tT 


APPENDIX I 


I have already outlined areas in which the MEWP became involved. 
The task was an immense one. To get some indigenous reaction to 
the MEWP, I have interviewed a number of people that had in 

one way or another been involved with or affected by the work of 
the MEWP. The sample is small. It is however representative of 
almost all the different groups of people who had some stake in 

what the MEWP did. 


= 


TIMOTHY HADJIS 


Mr. T. Hadjis had long been involved in the Roumeliotan 
Association before he became into contact with the MEWP. He 
works as an electrician with CN Railways. His formal education 
goes up to Grade 8 and he has been here for years. Aside from 

the fact that he holds a technical job he is fairly representative 
of the average Greek immigrant. We spoke for about an hour and a 
half about what he felt the MEWP had done for the Greek community. 


I feel I should mention that his first reaction to hearing that 
I was doing an evaluation of the MEWP was one of enthusiasm - 
"Excellent, he said, it is good that you will write about it. 
More people must hear about what it has done. It has awakened 
us and there should be more things like that." 


Mr. Hadjis felt quite strongly that more projects such as MEWP 
are necessary. He felt that the MEWP in particular had been very 
effective in filling what he saw as an immediate need - parent 
involvement in schools. I asked him for some specific examples 
of where the Parents Federation had been of tangible use. He 
quoted the need for Greek language classes, the issues of busing 
of Greek students out of TMR schools which was fought and delayed 
by the Federation, the election of a Greek school commissioner 
sponsered and supported by the Federation as well as others of a 
social and cultural nature. He emphasized that had it not been 
for MEWP these things would never have happened. 


I then asked Mr. Hadjis if he felt that MEWP had had any effect 
on the official Hellenic Community of Greater Montreal. He 
expressed the sentiment that others I interviewed also expressed, 
which is that MEWP acted as a threat to the community which 
forced them to rethink some of their policies and actions. He 
feels that at least now the Hellenic Community recognizes the 


existence of the mass of Greek immigrants. 


=25- 


The next area we covered in our discussion was where the MEWP 

could have improved. Mr. Hadjis said that he really could not 
think of any such suggestions expect perhaps that MEWP should 

have had a longer life. 


VAGELIS SOUZOS 


Mr. V. Souzos, a student at McGill University when the MEWP 

Was in operation, had served as a volunteer teacher in the 

Saturday Greek classes and tutorials organized by the MEWP. Since 
then he has kept an interest in the developments in the community 
and has numerous contacts in the Parents Federation and the Workers 
Association. Here too the conversation revolved around the same 
questions I asked Mr. Hadjis. Mr. Souzos felt that the work done 
by MEWP was extremely useful. He saw the Greek community in much 
the same light I have described it earlier in this paper and he felt 
the MEWP had made a dent in the isolation armour. As President 

of the McGill Hellenic Club he had served as a representative to 
the committee for the election of school commissioners to represent 
the Greek population. The fact that an interest by the community 
was taken and that a commissioner was elected was, he felt, proof 
of the impact of MEWP. This was, he pointed out, the first time 
such a well planned, organized attempt to elect someone to a body 
outside the Greek community was make. The effort paid off in the 
election of Mr. G. Vogas as school commissioner. Mr. Souzos also 
Saw the Workers Association as a positive force in the community. 
He pointed out that the MEWP succeeded in orienting people, who 


were already socially and politically active with respect to events 


in Greece, to the problems facing Greeks here. That was, he felt, 
both noteworthy and important for the Greek community. 


Mr. Souzos felt that the MEWP should have spent more time in teaching 
people how to effectively work in groups and committees and should 
have more time developing leadership qualities. He felt that 


=30= 


more could have been done in this respect had there been more 
time available to MEWP. 


I asked Mr. Souzos if he felt the MEWP had had any effect on 
the values of Greek parents. Were they now more able to accept 
Canadian norms? He answered with a definite no. (This would 
also confirm my own feelings on this matter), He pointed out 
that such values are too deeply ingrained in the character of 
the Greek people. Whenever old values and new values come into 
conflict (e.g. dating behaviour) with respect to their children, 
the parents would make every possible effort to maintain the 
old values. "We should remember that although such values may seem 
totally incongruous with the present reality it is not a simple 
matter for a first generation immigrant to adjust to the 
present reality." 


DENNIS ADAMOU 


Mr.D. Adamou is presently a full time employee of the Workers 
Association. He has long been involved in the "happenings" in 

the Greek Community. He had been particularly active in political 
organizing since the coup d'etat in Greece in 1967. 


Mr. Adamou also commended the work done by the MEWP. He felt, 

as Mr. Souzos, that it was particularly encouraging to see people, 
including himself, turn their attention to more local matters, 
directly affecting their everyday life. He also felt hearthened 
by the fact that the Hellenic Community had been forced, he felt, 
to move away from their traditional posture of neglect of the 
Greek immigrants. 


Pe 


He felt his own association is both a necessary and useful factor 
in the community. He pointed to some of the work that has been done 
through his association such as translation and distribution of 
labour laws, contacts with the CNTU and QFL, the organizing of at 
least one local CNTU affiliate, as well as serving as an employment 
agency. 


I asked him if he felt that his previous interest with Greek 

matters had ended. To quote him "I do of course take a keen interest 
in what is happening in Greece. I am very interested. Now, 
however, I think I use my time and interests more effectively. 

I have always fought what I felt were injustices. Now I can fight 
for real things and real people, here. Perhaps now I am doing 

more than I ever did. This is not theory, this is action". He 

felt that had it not been for MEWP he would have tried to do some- 
thing in this area somehow, but the MEWP offered the opportunity 

for something concrete to happen. He pointed out that the MEWP 

had not been able to combat the suspicions and disunity which he 
felt still exist but that despite that people had managed to turn 
their attention to the here and now. To expand on this Mr. Adamou 
felt that there is still a basic mistrust of his association because 
much of its active membership comes from people formerly involved 
in political action against the junta in Greece but that many other 
people are using its services despite this. 


MR. MANOLAKOS 


Mr. Manolakos has long been involved with the Hellenic 
community and is at the moment the President of that body. 


Mr. Manolakos felt that citizen action groups involved in an 
animating function, such as the MEWP helped organize can be very 
useful in any community. They do, however, he felt, often attach 


—iom 


themselves to various political movements which tend to overshadow 
the good work they do. As far as the MEWP itself was concerned, 
Mr. Manolakos felt that the project had made some very good con- 
tributions and that the citizens of the area had benefited. He 
felt quite strongly that the Hellenic Parents and Guardian 
Federation was the most significant outcome of MEWP. He was 
certain that the organization would be in existence for a long 
time and it has been instrumental in helping to direct the 
interests of parents towards what is happening in the schools. 


Mr. Manolakos also felt that the MEWP had indeed forced the 

reshaping of the thinking of some of the leaders of the Hellenic 
Community, he himself being one. In his own words "... organizations 
such as these serve to make stagnant groups conscious to certain 
needs." As a result of such rethinking the Hellenic Community 

is now involved in many areas it had previously ignored. For 
example, there ‘is now:- 


(1) A full time social worker to deal with cases before the 
juvenile court. 

(2) An employment referral center. 

(3) An emergency accommodation center. 

(4) A vocational training center for seamstresses. 

(5) A Library. 


Mr. Manolakos felt that MEWP had tended to ignore certain 
established organizations in its life. He felt that the MEWP 
had been rather antagonistic towards the Hellenic Community. 
He thought that the project should have cooperated with the 
Church, for example, as well as other organized groups in the 
Hellenic Community. 


ic fey 


VAGELIS HADJIS 


Mr. V. Hadjis is one of the few Greek speaking lawyers in 
Montreal. He had participated, on a voluntary basis, quite 
extensively in some of the work of the MEWP project. He had 
acted as the lawyer for the legal aid offered by MEWP, as legal 
advisor to the Hellenic Parents and Guardians and is presently 
legal advisor to the Hellenic Federation of Societies. 


During our discussion, Mr. Hadjis made it clear to me that he gave 
his time because he believed in the need for people to recognize 
their rights. He also believed that the best way to effect change 

is to motivate people to deal with their problems themselves. 

He felt that the MEWP had been desperately needed. To quote him 
"before the project there were many people sitting in cafes and 
living rooms complaining, the MEWP gave them the option to do 
something." He felt that the most important achievement and the 

most urgent had been the organization of the Parents Federation. 

He attributes a large part of the success of this organization 

to the work put in organizing its inception by the MEWP staff. 

Mr. Hadjis has also worked closely with the Workers organization. 

In this area he expressed some apprehension. He stated that although 
to date the work they have done (see Mr. Adamou's interview)has 

been useful he was somewhat apprehensive about the political leanings 
of the group. As far as the MEWP was concerned, however, he felt that 
it had done its job in that field. 


On a more general level Mr. Hadjis expressed agreement that MEWP 

had had a definite affect on the character of the community. 

People were, he said, more aware, more concerned, less afraid. The 
Hellenic Community, he felt, had also sat up and taken notice. They 
too, were obliged to attempt some sort of approach to the problems 
of the immigrant which they had for so long ignored. 


the 


Mr. Hadjis also stated that the MEWP had overcome much of what 
had been the downfall of other attempts to organize action. He 
commended the project for having overcome the distrustfulness of 
the community, for having avoided political coloration, and 
entanglement in the community in-fighting. He recognized that 
these in themselves were noteworthy achievements but he further 
went on to say that he would have hoped more could have been achieved. 
Here again I would like to quote him "...although much was done, 
the money that went into the project should have had a greater 
impact. There could have been a more effective use of resources 
available." 


GEORGE TSOUKAS 


Dr. Tsoukas was involved with the MEWP in an attempt to set up 

a medical clinic in the Greek community. The effort got through 
the initial planning and contact stage but fell through at the 
financing level. 


In Dr. Tsoukas' view, the project had been an enormous success. 

"You know that even today I hear mention of that project in some 

of the strangest places, hospitals for instance. I think the MEWP 
was what started the ball rolling here. The community is definitely 
different. The Parents Federation has been a tremendous asset to the 
community. I regret very much not having been able to complete 

the clinic we were planning. Had it opened it may have met with 

a lot of resistance from other doctors or even the Hellenic Community 
but it would have been the crowning of the whole effort". 


Dr. Tsoukas felt that the time in which the MEWP had to work was 
short. That the community could have benefited from one or two more 
years of the MEWP he felt. 


-35- 


DR. PATTERSON - Chairman Protestant School Board 
of Greater Montreal 


The interview I held with Dr. Patterson was a very brief one. 

I did not have the opportunity to adequately explore his views 

on the effect of the Hellenic Parents and Guardians. I asked 

Dr. Patterson if he felt the Association had had any effect on the 
schools in the area. He answered by saying that he was aware that 
parents in that area were keenly interested in the conditions of 
the school in the area. This, I feel, is a valuable statement, 
proving that MEWP had a very real effect in the area. Previous 

to the MEWP there was no interest. If the chairman of the Board 
can state that he is aware of a keen interest then something cont- 
ributed to the development of the interest. Dr. Patterson further 
stated that he is also pleased that there is a representative of 
the community on the School Board. This too is a direct result of 


the Parents Association involvement in educational matters. 
I also held peripheral conversations with the following people:- 


Mr. P. Spanoganis 
Mr. P. Tsakonas 
Mr. P. Ferentinos 


All three had been quite heavily involved in the projects work. 

I have not written separate sections for the first three people 
since their sentiments are pretty well the same as those of Mr. 

T. Hadjis. All three felt the project was extremely useful 

in that it motivated and activated them to attempt to deal with 
their problems themselves. They felt the Greek immigrant community 
was a lot better off as a result. They cited the same examples - 
involvement gives one a sense of belonging. Each expressed the 
feeling that now he felt more at home here in Canada, that he was 


more aware of his rights and his responsibilities. 


CHAPTER IV 


A PERSONAL PERSPECTIVE 


=a 
A_ PERSONAL PERSPECTIVE 


As I have outlined earlier in this report, the Greek community 
prior to the MEWP, was an isolated, unactive one. It is my view 
that the time was ripe for a project such as the MEWP. Given 

the myraid of problems - that, education, housing, recreation, day 
care, medical, legal, employment, information, etc. any group 

of people which could have gained the confidence of the community 
would have done as much and more than MEWP. The success of the 
project is due to a number of factors. First, it chose to deal 
with issues which that the community felt were problems. It did not 
seek to create issues that were not there. Second, it chose to deal 
with these problems with an indigenous staff. This was not a group 
of outsiders that were going to show the people the way. Virtually 
all staff members were people who had gone through what the 
residents of the area were going through, had experienced the 

same background and empathized with them. Third, the aim of 

the project was not to solve the problems but to help create the 
framework through which the people of the area themselves could 
deal with these problems as they saw fit. Fourth, the people 
involved were not rushed by the project staff into making any 
radical decisions. If they were to ever be able to make such 
decisions they had to first build up their moral, confidence and 
knowledge. Fifth, the MEWP did not only organize around an issue 
for actions sake, it took time to educate the people involved about 
the issue. Lastly and definitely least, luck. I feel this element 
always enters into such ventures. A specific issue may arise at a 
particularly opportune time. In itself, though, it contributes 
nothing, it is the readiness and ability to make use of such 
occurances that is important. 


Aside from the framework which was set up (e.g. Parents, Workers) 
what else was achieved by the MEWP? I can only answer this from a 
personal perspective I have gained during my involvement with the 


—ag= 


Greek community. I believe that two major things were achieved. 


(1) Whereas before the MEWP the various organized groups were 
seperate and often worked at cross purposes many of these 
associations have banded together in the Federation of Societies. 
Although this had been attempted before this is the first time 

it has succeeded in getting off the ground and it is now 
beginning to function smoothly. The MEWP cannot take credit for 
this specific achievement. Many of the people involved with 

the Federation of Societies however are the same people who worked 
closely with the MEWP. I feel that these people are key factors 
to the success of the Federation of Societies. They have gained, 
through their contact with MEWP, the experience necessary to effect- 
ively work in groups and to deal with issues. 


(2) Another area where I feel the MEWP has had an important effect 
is in bringing the professionals of the community closer to the 
population. Before the MEWP there was no organized contact 

between the "intelligentsia" and the community. As an indirect 
result of the MEWP the Hellenic Canadian Society of University 
Graduates has become an active member of the Federation of 
Societies. The MEWP had much the same effect on 

this body as it has had on the Hellenic Community. It forced 

the University Graduates Society to re-evaluate its role. After 
some soul searching this body decided that it should offer its talents 
for the use of the immigrant community. In doing this it dropped 

an attitude of aloofness in favour of one of involvement. 

The MEWP has not been a panacea for the multitude of problems facing 
the Greek community. It has, however had effects which are 
important for those involved and it has helped move the Greek 
community somewhat out of its isolation. It has helped create a 
more meaningful life for members of that community and it has 

shown them how to help themselves. In my own view and ih the 

view expressed by all the people with whom I spoke to, the MEWP 

was a definite success. 


=39= 


OBSERVATIONS 


1. That the M.E.W.P. demonstrated that the widely accepted 
homogeneity of this ethnic group was a distortion and that 
the structures of the identifiable and accepted community 
organization(s) in fact hindered the progress and integration 
of the immigrant majority. 


2. That a guided developmental process whereby the minority 
group gains the required self-awareness and confidence can be 
instrumental in the process of integration. The integration 
of an active, responsible citizen aware and "alive" in terms 
of his/her cultural identify. The process of integration if 
it is to be satisfactory to all concerned parties requires 
that the minority be sufficiently powerful to ensure a 
continuing identity and therefore, input within the host group. 


3. That the community development process if it is to have a 
continuing effect requires the vision, analysis and planning 
best exhibited by an outside, but informed and committed, agent. 
The agent's role is not one of paternalism but of resource 

and objectivity. 


4. That social and individual development is dependent on the 
availability of supportive social systems and structures. 
Development can have a continuing effect where it concerns 
itself with the building and maintenance of such structures. 


5. That the M.E.W.P. has been successful in the development of 
necessary community structures but that these find it Gifticuit 
to maintain themselves without financial support beyond the 
three year life of a project. 


6. That the M.E.W.P. did effect the lives of some 12-15,000 
people. The government support equates to approximately $4 
per individual over a three year period. 


—ih= 


RECOMMENDATIONS 


1. That greater efforts be made in terms of funds and identi- 
fication of spokesmen to ensure that traditional ethnic struc- 
tures are not in a position to dictate the continuity of dist- 
ortion and repression. 


2. That when an analysis of intra-community events and conflicts 
is required, it be made in consideration of the political and 
social realities within the given community. 


3. That funds be made available to ensure that community 
organizations and systems that contribute to the "integration 
from power" concept are maintained. The granting of funds 

in this manner would be more successful in promoting the 
concept of multiculturalism than the support of purely cultural 
group and events. 


4. That the concept of the "ghetto" is basic to the initial 
survival of a minority group. The need is not for the destruction 
of such ghettos but for the development within them of 
self-awareness and a positive view of their potential role and 

the availability of structures that will lead to interaction 

and integration. 


5. That in the light of the M.E.W.P. experience greater efforts 
be made to ensure funds are directly contributing to the attain- 
ment of project goals and objectives. The major contribution 

in terms of developmental goals is the availability of staff 
resources. 


