KAMP KANAWANA 
VOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 


CAMP DIRECTOR'S REPORT 
SUMMER 1974 


KAMP KANAWANA 


1974 DIRECTOR'S REPORT 


The eighty-first year of Kamp Kanawana has come to an end. I look 
back with many fond memories and some unpleasant ones too but over- 
all a very successful season from most aspects. 


The following report is intended to give an impression of this 
summer's kamp as well as assist us in the plannings of Kamp 
Kanawana 1975 in order to continue to improve the quality. 


I have never learned so much in such a short time about so many 
things as I have in the past year's involvement with Kamp Kanawana. 
As Kamp Director, I made several mistakes and apologize if anyone 
has been hurt in the process- Any decisions made have taught me 
much about the position of Kamp Director and about myself. With 
the help and guidance of Tom Potts as well as the excellent per- 
formance of most of our kamp staff, we were able to accomplish 
most of our objectives for the season. 


Registration this summer was slightly ahead of budget. In the 
ten year survey which was recently completed, there were two 
significant findings. Firstly, this year showed that we had the 
highest percentage of returnee campers registered in the past ten 
years (45.2%). We also saw the highest average stay for campers 
in the past ten years with an average stay of 2.9 weeks. 


Registration figures are as follows: 


Camper Weeks 

Session lst 2nd 3rd 4th Total 
Junior Girls 44 T2 48 64 228 
Junior Boys 70 102 98 102 372 
Senior Girls 72 94 80 70 316 
Senior Boys 68 94 92 94 348 


254 362 318 330 1264 


Staff hiring started in December '73. It was completed by early 
May, but due to staff agreement cancellations, we were compelled 
to continue the process until kamp opened. Perhaps there may be 
a way to get a more definite commitment from our staff in the 
future at the time of hiring. 


We were fortunate this year by having an exceptionally large 
percentage (72%) of returnee staff with use Their previous 
experience at Kanawana together with their maturity added greatly 
to the success of this summer's operation. 


ate 


As I was responsible for the program in 1973, I can easily compare 
this year's to last. Undoubtedly, it was far superior this year. 
The program was expertly handled by Stuart McLean. He was a 
Section Director in '7l and had been on staff for several years 
before that.e I had much trouble recruiting the "best person" for 
the position of Assistant Kamp Director but believe that the "best 
person" possible was hired. I sincerely thank Stuart for his 
dedication to Kamp Kanawana and his support. It is my hope that 
he will return next season as Assistant Kamp Director to continue 
with the fine work he did this summer. 


This summer we saw a slight re-organization but more importantly, 
a different approach with more ingenuity, flexibility and variety 
in programming. Such things as kampers and staff getting involved 
in kamp improvements was the most evident. We saw a group of 
senior kampers design and repaint the Lodge as well as the oldest 
senior boys building a terrific outdoor sauna across the lake. 

My thanks to the two staff involved Jon Grier and Bill Flaschner 
respectively for their enthusiasm and encouragement of these two 
projects. 


I believe one of the greatest improvements in program, in terms 

of quality and quantity, was that of the Hike and Trip Department. 
This area was again excellently handled by Perry Olshansky. The 
enthusiasm generated for overnight trips became so great that it 
became difficult at time to meet the demand. 


Each and every one of the 100 plus trips this summer was successful 
and all indications from the kamper questionnaires are very 
positive about the trips. We saw many happy faces after a week 
long canoe trip or our first hike along the Aderandack Trail. My 
thanks to Perry especially and his Department for a job well done. 


The kampers at Kanawana went home happy this summer. There were 
only a few difficulties that arose and at that most were minor in 
nature. Most of these difficulties and also the supervision and 
operation of the four sections were excellently handled by the 
four Section Directors, Eva Menzak, Kerry Finucan, Kathy Maclean 
and Bob Fyfe. My sincerest thanks to these four for their 
determination and cooperation throughout the summer. 


Both waterfronts were well handled and supervised by our water- 
front staff. After having sent four of our staff to the Canadian 
Canoe School, the quality of canoe instruction (as well as repairs) 
improved tremendously over last years The sailing program did not 
suffer from some of the equipment difficulties that it did last 
year and consequently functioned smoothly with more kampers able 

to participate in the instruction. My thanks to each and everyone 
of the waterfront staff for their efforts this summer. 


shim 


Despite the new activities in kamp this summer, the expansion of 
the Arts and Crafts program was worthwhile as it again proved a 
very popular program. The Arts and Crafts Director, Jan Chartrand, 
once again had her Department producing many fine pieces of work 

as well as banners, etc. for all kamp programs. My thanks to Jan 
and her staff. 


The Counsellor-in-Training program was headed this year by Pat 
Morrow from the Westmount Y's leader corp. The C.IeTes 
experienced such things as a bronze lifesaving course (all but 2 
were successful), a six day canoe trip with Perry Olshansky 

(Hike and Trip Director '73 and '74), a four day theory session 

on communications, etc. where they planned "Camp C.I.T." in detail. 
They also had direct participation in all areas of Kanawana and 
most are now well trained to become staff at kamp next year. 


The kitchen and dining hall at kamp this summer was probably 
cleaner than it has been in several years due to many factors. 
Our Head Chef, Mrs. Madeleine Wundele, and her staff were con- 
sistent in serving many fine meals- The only concern that I have 
here was the unpopularity of certain meals on the menu. Perhaps 
it is my fault for not bringing this to the attention of Ed Neal 
from the Downtown Y for adjustments or alterations. Before next 
year's food services are finalized, I would suggest that some 
sort of random survey be done to determine the likes and dislikes 
of our kampers and staff. 


This should facilitate the planning of a more popular menu without 
altering other factors to any significant extent. It should also 
be mentioned here that Kanawana was one of six camps whose food 
service was studied this summer (done by 3 R-.N-, P.H-N. for a 
course at Loyola College). The study indicated that we rated 

very high as compared to these other camps. 


The Business Office was extremely well managed this year by 
Kathy Moffat. Besides running the Business Office so well, she 
also got involved in some repair work for the Voyageur program 
as well as numerous other areas of kamp that presently do not 
come to mind. My thanks to her for a job well done. 


As in past years, we had difficulty in hiring a registered nurse 
for the entire summer. We had four different R-Nes this year 
but it did not seem to affect the operations of the infirmary 
too greatly. The adjustment from nurse to nurse was relatively 
smooth due to the assistant nurse, Pam Reynolds. 


In terms of health, less kampers and staff were sick as in past 
years except for a period of a week or so when some "bug" went 
around and had many people ill for a 24 hour period. 


= 


The Quebec Camping Association's representative, Dr. Robert 
Wilkinson, again visited us this summer for their annual visit. 
Implementing most of the recommendations from last year's Q-C.A-~ 
visit, the kamp was in excellent order and should be, in my 
opinion, reaccredited with the Q.C.-A. There were numerous minor 
suggestions made by Dr. Wilkinson during our tour of kamp. These 
will all be carried out before next summer. 


Les Voyageurs de la Verendrye again had a very successful season. 
We were very fortunate to have Paul Mongraw direct the program 
again after a year's absence. All trips were safe, well planned 
and well received by the participants. Registration was as 
follows: 


July 2 - July 16 July 22 - Aug. 5 July 22 - Aug. 12 
18 8 ll 


There are two items worth mentioning here: 


l. The dates and duration of the trips might need some 
alterations. A discussion with Paul Mongraw and 
others should clear this up in the fall. 


2. The new Grumman canoes were excellent from every 
aspect. I feel that two more should be purchased 
next year, equipping us with a total of eight 
aluminum canoes for the park. 


"Wilderness Camp" operated again this year, however, with less 
campers than last. I feel I should have mentioned it more often 
than I had to eligible campers at Kamp Kanawana in order to 
increase registration. It is a good program, however, the income 
generated and the number of participants does not make it very 
feasible to continue but some study will be required in order to 
clarify its merits. 


In my twenty months of contact with the YMCA and Kamp Kanawana 
specifically, I have met and got to know two people who I shall 
never forgets Olga Hall and Julien Tasse are two of the most 
dedicated and honest people that I have ever worked with. For 
their kindness, patience and understanding I shall be always 
grateful. 


SPECIFIC RECOMMENDATIONS : 


l. 


For the most part, the majority of staff from the summer 
of 1974 should be re-hired. There are a few who, for one 
reason or another, should not be re-hired and also a few 
that I would be apprehensive about. For further detail 
on the above, please consult the personnel confidential 
file at the Camp Branch Office. 


In order to retain the desired staff from '74, as well 
as attract some new quality people, a genuine increase 
in salaries will be required for most positions in kamp. 
It is becoming increasingly difficult to get the people 
we want and expect so much from them. 


I do not believe that we have serious faults in our 
promotion of Kamp Kanawana due to the number of new 
kampers that we attract each year. But some more 
professional thought is required. 


The kamp was fortunate to have a second vehicle available 
for the last 6 weeks. It proved very useful for trips 

to the hospital or Montreal, etc. Knowing the cost of 
maintaining Kanawana's truck, as well as our present 
needs, I would suggest that the possibility of leasing 

a vehicle be looked into for next summer. 


I think that most people at kamp find the eight week 
season a long one. I believe that the feasibility of a 
two day break between a couple (or all) sessions be 
looked into. This would eliminate the position of 
"Rovers" for the sections, help rejuvenate all the staff 
at one time, and also help Julien with his work as the 
kamp would virtually be empty during these times. 


The foundation grant was extremely helpful in improving 
the site the summer. Some more program and other 
equipment is desirable for next summer. This should be 
looked into in the fall after studying the Assistant 
Kamp Director's report. 


We should continue to send staff to various training 
schools available to use The benefits from the Q.C.A., 
Canadian Canoe School and Vermont Ecology Course were 
tremendous this summer. 


wih x 


Pre-kamp training requires change. The concept of mixing 
two programs (i-ee. train new staff and khuild on skills of 
returnee staff) has its merits but tendg to interfer 

with the quality of each. A study of this year's reports 
and pre-kamp evaluations as well as discussing the 
situation with other Camp Directors should be a big help 
in designing pre-kamp 1975. 


I feel that there are many potential programs that should 
(and maybe have been) investigated. Some are: 


l. A nineth week of camp for families. 
2. A nineth week of camp for 50 campers. 
3. Post camp canoe trips - campers 

- staff 

- father and son 

- families, etc. 
4. Winter camping - small groups 

- possibly from Kamp Kanawana 
5. Canoe School for Quebec in May-June 
6. Encourage Y (and other) Day Camps to come up 
for a day, etc. 


This past summer has been one of the best summers for me. I 
believe that many of the things that I personally wanted to see 
happen - did. It was by no means an easy summer but a most 
rewarding onee I shall always be indebted to the many staff and 
kampers for it was they that made this past summer's experience 
so worthwhile to me 


Respectfully submitted, 


Derek V. Walsh, 
Director '74. 


