LES VOYAGEURS DE LAVERENDRYE 


Report on Summer 1974 


Preface 


This report may be a somewhat more personal document than is 
usually expected in the Director's Report. It is first of all 
a report on the summer of '74 but more than that I hope it to 
be a kind of summing up. I've worked for Les Voyageurs since 
1967 and now marriage and a career preclude spending another 
summer in LaVerendrye. Therefore besides reporting on last 
summer's activities I hope this report will give some sort 

of overview of where the camp has been and where I think it 


should go. - 


I.The Brochure 


Once again a plea must be made to make the Voyageur's handbook 
of information and especially any forms the parents must fill 
out bilingual. We deserve abominations like Bill 22 if we make 
no effort to translate into French simple things like lists of 
clothing and equipment to bring. 


The staff felt the following things should be emphasized in the 
publicity brochure and the information handbook. I concur. 


a) that the clothing brought by campers need not be new. It 
merely needs to be in good condition. 


b) that the campers be asked to bring a minimum of five dollars 
for lunches coming to and from the Park. 


c) that raincoats be waterproof. The kids are still bringing 
frail plastic ponchos and suffer accordingly on rainy days. 


d) that there be a more precise description of the kind of bed- 
roll and groundsheet that should be bought. To wit: a compact 
down-filled bag: a corespondingly small ruberized-canvas ground- 
sheet. 


e) that sunglasses be added to the "equipment to bring" list / 
as an optional item. Bath towels can be taken off. 

f) that more emphasis be put on the suggestion that they bring 
One or two paperback books to read. 


g) that if the campers are to still bring their own self-pur- 
chased paddles then the adjectives "strong", "wooden", and "wide" 
should be emphasized. 


'74 report - page two 


h) the general consensus was that the campers should be aware 

that they are not going to be pampered - i.e. that they should 
expect a fairly rough experience. We are still getting campers 
who think they are going to paddle around Lake Kanawana. 


i) the information booklet should emphasize the parent's attend- j 
ance at parent's night. Every parent should be phoned and per- 


sonally invited. 6 
II. Policy 


1. A set policy should be made about the physical si ‘ 
We are sti i ads who whatever their attractions 


as persons do genuinely suffer because of the weight of the packs 
and of the canoes (even aluminum ones). What should be a pleasur- 


able experience becomes cruel and unusual punishment. Moreover 
they fee group hostility because they do not carry the 


same loads as their larger confreres. There is the special embar- 
rassment of the light pack that has specially to be packed for 
them. The policy should be that the campers must be at least aie 3 
pounds in weight and over five feet in height. 


2. Some effort should be made to discover whether campers know 
what Voyageurs is and whether they want to come to the Park. 
Nothing is more disheartening than the camper who has been shang- 
haied by his parents and has not the slightest desire to be on 

a canoe trip. Each prospective camper should be interviewed by 
the director of the camp. 


3. The optimum number of people on our canoe trips is six ( one} n/a 7 
tripper and five campers) travelling in two canoes. A group of 
that size is not unweildy and,canoe and portage through the wild- 
erness quickly and safely with a minimum of confusion. More than 
six is difficult because there are not enough activities to keep 
everyone busy. However the greatest difficulty is that with just 
one more camper than five you need another canoe just to bring 
along the extra person. The extra canoe slows down the trip and 
the load on portages cannot be divided evenly. Consider: with a 
trip of six people,two carry canoes while the food, bedrolls, and 
equipment is stuffed into four packs to be carried by the rest. 
But with a trip of seven three carry canoes and there are still 
only four packs which now must be overstuffed to carry the food 
and gear of seven people. The point of this is that the camp 
should make a policy of keeping the trips to five campers and 
stick to it no matter what the temptation of making a few extra 
bucks by adding one more camper to a trip. The revenue is not 
worth the problems that result from a seven-man trip. Last summer 
when I told a tripper that an extra camper had been added to his 


'74 report - page three 


trip his comment was, "They screwed us downtown". They did indeed. 


4, The Voyageur Director if carefully chosen for his post should 

be trusted in his choice of staff and in his spending for food and 

equipment. A lack of confidence especially in the choosing of staff 
was perceived last summer from the Camping Director and this some- 

times hampered my ability to get things done. 


5.The Kanawana caretaker of last season was an able and hardworking 
individual who could not disguise his contempt for the Voyageurs 
Director and his staff. While the planning, preparation, and exe- 
cution of a canoe trip does not fall into the catagory of backbreak- 
ing labour which in the ethic of the Caretaker can only be consid- 
ered work, the trippers did do their jobs well. In no way did we 
deserve the unfriendliness and petty harassment that we got from 
the Caretaker. The requests from our outfit are minimal (hot showers 
and access to buildings) so that it mystifies me that a dislike for 
us of such intensity should have developed. But develop it did and 
to no small degree it spoiled our summer while we were at Kanawana. 
The Caretaker should be instructed to meet what few demands the Voy- 
ageur Director makes on him without petulance and these reasonable 
demands include the Director inspecting and repairing the Voyageur's 
equipment in May and June. 


6. A reassessment of what trippers are paid is in order. The base 
salary for a tripper last summer was $450. for the summer. That is 
the same as I got for my first summer back in 1967! We will not get 
good staff unless we are prepared to pay them well. 


III. Staff 


The trippers for Summer '74 were superb. A more temperate, skilled, 
and competent staff there is not. I recommend without hesitation 
that should they want to return next summer that they be rehired. 


Special mention should be made of Bob Woodhouse's resourcefulness 
in doing major repairs on a badly damaged canoe and still getting 
his trip back on schedule. 


Evidence of the ability of the trippers is that every trip reached 
its pickup on time and there were no injuries all summer. 


In choosing staff in the future I feel that while an applicant's 
tripping skills are crucial their counselling skills are just as 
important. 


'74 report - page four 


IV. Food 


In general, everyone including the campers was pleased about the 
variety, quantity, and flavour of the food carried on the trips. 
I believe we have lowered the weight of the food carried on a 
trip to as low as is possible while still maintaining nutrition 
and variety. A number of new (for Voyageurs) products were used 
and what follows is mostly an evaluation of those products. The 
list of foods used is in the appendix. 


a) We tried both Salada Hot Chocolate in the individual serving 
packages and Gumpert's in the double serving bags. The choice 
was unanimous for Gumpert's because of its superior flavour 

and because its packaging withstood the rigors of a canoe trip. 
Salada's did not. 


b) Gumpert's Spanish Rice Dinner was tasty and a good base for 
stews. Again excellent packaging. 


c)Gumpert's dried peas and carrots mix we felt was even better 
than the freeze-dried variety besides being well packaged. Reorder. 


d)Since pure Grape Nuts (not the flakes) was not commercially avail- 
able we substituted "Harvest Crunch" (Quaker) which met with 
universal acceptance. 


e)Praise was heaped on Schnieder's Dried Salamis which proved to 
be flavourful and, most important, almost indestructable. It's 
the only salami we have found that travel s well without refrig- 
eration. A couple should go with each trip. We found them at the 
deli in Fairview Mall in Pointe Claire. 


f)We carried, for the first time, freeze-dried beef and pork patties. 
They were well packaged for travel. I personally thought the pork 
ones excellent and the beef ones woody but the trippers were enthu- 
Siastic about both kinds and want them next summer. 


g)Everyone agreed that the freeze-dried vegetables were good and 
that we should check to see if the company carries anything besides 
peas, corn, and green beans. 


h)Keep buying tinned kidney beans - with freeze-dried ground beef t 
you have a good base for chili. 


i) Do not buy jam and peanut butter. There is no bread to spread j 
it on and much is wasted. = 7 


j) Buy one tinned ham per trip. It's heavy but it travels 0.K. and 
is a relief from the freeze-dried meats. 


'74 report - page five 


k) Buy lots more dried soups - especially onion. 


1) The camp might supply some flour and yeast so that if a trip 
finds a cabin with a stove it can bake bread. 


m) Jeff Roberts thought we could have bought a higher quality raisin. 


n) It was agreed that the Salada ''Rise 'n Shine" powdered fruit juices 
were good and traveled reasonably well. Also, unlike Gumpert's when 
you finish a package you can burn it instead of being left with a can 
for disposal. Besides a can is difficult to reseal once it is open 
while the foil lined bags are not. 

does 
n) What Pezner's does not supply or,not have in stock can usually be 
purchased at Saffran's wholesale food warehouse (the dried salamis 
being an exception). 


V. Canoes 


We used-for the first time in Voyageur's history-aluminum canoes. TRLS, 
I think,was a positive step. While the canoes are unappealing aesthetic- 
ly they certainly are lighter and much more durable than the cedar 

strip variety. The savings in paint, varnish, canvas, wood, and glue 
needed for annual spring repairs to the cedars will be considerable as 
the years go by. We found that complaints about the noise and the 

hot gunwales of aluminum canoes were overblown. The gunwales never 

got more than warm and the packs muffled the noise of the water on the 
huli. We did not find them significantly harder to handle on windy 

days. However to carp: 


a) The deck plates should be painted a dull colour. Presently the sun 
reflecting on them can be blinding. 


b) There are some sharp edges on the gunwales and under the seats that 
should be taped or filed. 


c) The very indestructability of the aluminum canoes is to me their 
chief liability. There is a danger that some trippers might attempt 
rapids which otherwise they would not touch in a cedar canoe thus 
exposing their campers to unnecessary peril. Aluminum canoes mean 

that the camp must be especially discerning in who it hires as trippers. 
A reckless tripper and an aluminum canoe is a lethal combination. 


d) We should buy two more aluminum canoes and thus have a full comple- 
ment. 


'74 report - page six 


VI. Equipment 


No one had any complaint about the availability and quality of the 
equipment we used. Our tents and packs seem best suited to the 
kind of operation we run. With the advent of aluminum canoes we 
had more time to devote to the preparation and repair of equip- 
ment. A lot of packs were repaired and the first aid boxes over- 
hauled. About equipment there was general agreement on the follow- 
ing points: 


a) A good combination aluminum canoe repair-equipment repair kit 
including needle and tentmaker's thread) should be assembled for 
each trip in a watertight container. 


b) The hunt should continue for a durable waterproof mapcase. (What 
does the Canadian Army Airbourne use?) 


c) The camp should supply tooth powder, a flashlight, spare batteries, 
and bathing soap for each trip. Presently each camper brings his 

own and since only one of each is carried on each trip a lot of 
parents are wasting money. 


d) Somebody should find a company that sells transparent plastic 
freezer bags (with ties) wholesale. We waste a lot of time and money 
running around all summer from store to store buying them retail. 


e) The following equipment needs to be purchased for summer '75: 


hickory axe handle 
map cases 

sail silk tent fly 
Woods tripper packs 
pot kit bags 

saw blades 


WENrR AR 


VII. The Future of Voyageurs 


In recent years, principally because of its inability to afford a 
truck (and thus access a base camp) Les Voyageurs has based itself 
at Camp Kanawana with the following effects: 


a) The campers arrive “high" for the bush and spend their first day 
at a residence camp abounding with little girls and eight-year-old 
boys. Instead of their transition and training period being spent in 
a wilderness base camp they spend it at Kanawana with a resultant 
letdown. This is not to criticise Kanawana but it is certainly not 


'74 report - page seven 


what the parents are paying for. More than one camper has told me 
that he felt the two days spent at Kanawana constituted a "ripoff". 


b) Because of all the travelling involved the Voyageurs summer has 
been made shorter so as not to interfere with Kanawana fTjyysthe 
result that we waste the best part of August. 


c) Before camp Les Voyageur's schedule and its ability to have a 
staff training trip is hampered by its dependance on Kanawana's 
truck, 


d) Without the base camp there is no opportunity to set up the 
camp in the environment in which we will work. 


e) Les Voyageur's presence has resulted in conflict with Kanawana's 
caretaker and its campers are sometimes disruptive to the routine 
of Kanawana while they are there. 


f) If things continue as they are now then Les Voyageurs de LaVerendrye 
will inevitably be absorbed by the Hike and Trip department of Kan- 
awana and will cease to be a separate operation. The loss of a dis- 
tinctive canoe tripping camp is something the YMCA can ill afford. 


VIII. Conclusion 


The very survival of Les Voyageurs is dependant on its acquiring a 
truck and consequently being able to use a base camp. A new base 
camp should not be in Parc de LaVerendrye. I say this with regret 
but the Park is becoming increasingly crowded, the fees more and 
more onerous, and the surrounding fishing clubs more and more 
touchy about trips crossing their territory. With all the new roads 
open to the James Bay Project (ugh) we should be able to find a 
new tripping territory that is both exciting and acessible and on 
which we can build a new base camp. It will take planning and 
initiative. The time to do it is now. 


Respectfully submitted 


QZ 


Paul Mongra 
Director 1974 


APPENDIX ONE: FOOD USED SUMMER '74 


oatmeal 
cream o' wheat 
Red River Cereal 
Harvest Crunch 
Salada Orange drink 
Salada Lemonade 
Salada Grape Drink 
Salada Apple Drink 
white sugar 
brown sugar 
jam 
peanut butter 
dried apricots 
dates 
raisins 
prunes 
sardines 
instant coffee 
corned beef 
tinned pork loaf (eg. Prem, Klik etc.) 
tinned cakes (Crosse and Blackwell Date Loaf) 
Gumpert's Spanish Rice Dinner 
Gumpert's Peas and Carrots mix 
Freeze-dried green beans 
Freeze-dried peas 
Freeze-dried corn kernals 
Gumpert's Hot Chocolate mix 
Baker's Semi-sweet chocolate (chunks) 
Lipton's dried onion soup 
Lipton's dried pea soup 
Lipton's dried chicken noodle soup 
Lipton's dried beef noodle soup 
tinned Kidney beans 
spagetti 
tinned tomato paste 
tinned baked navy beans 
dried onion flakes 
Freeze-dried ground beef 
Freeze-dried beef patties 
Freeze-dried turkey chunks (U.S. army) 
dried mashed potatoes 
Freeze-dried pork patties 
rice 
macaroni 
flavouring mixes (French's chili,spagetti sause, cheese 
B.B.Q. sause 
cooking oil 
milk powder 
honey (in tins) 
margerine 
dried salami 


Bisquick 


APPENDIX TWO: INVENTORY OF SURPLUS FOOD SUMMER '74 


10 bags Red River cereal 

11 bags cream o' wheat 
20 oz. box of cream o' wheat 
22 oz. bags of Rise 'n Shine Apple Drink 
22 oz. bags of Rise 'n Shine Lemonade 
2 1b. 4 oz. box of Freeze-dried peas 
bags of freeze-dried green beans 
case (6/ 1 1b. 12 oz. tins of freeze-dried turkey chunks 
tin (1 1b. 12 oz. tin of turkey chunks - freeze-dried 
% 6z. Spanish Rice Dinners 
2 1b. boxes of rice 
1 1b. boxes of spagetti 

bags freeze-dried potatoes 
cases (24 cans) freeze-dried potatoes 
cases (23 cans) freeze-dried macaroni 
1 1b. bags of Bisquick 

packages of dried soup mix (pea) 

63 tins sardines 

3 tins corned beef 

4 tins kidney beans 

4 10 oz. jars instant coffee 

2 12 oz. bottles of BBQ mix sause 

17 1 1b. boxes of powdered milk 

200 single serving salada hot chocolate 

lo 1b. brown sugar 

35 1b. dates 

3 ib. raisins 


ANDRRODNHHNHAGQH 


vy 


APPENDIX THREE: EQUIPMENT INVENTORY 


Quanti 


i uw 


PNK RRRRARPRrPEUNANMN 
Ow 


vw 


PRR HRRWW PUTO OOF rR WY 


UINWWN 
Woo 


NO 


ty 


lo” 
(eo) 
tal 


quart 
quart 


tins 


six-man pot kits 

frying pans 

first aid kits 

boxes of matches 

packs in good repair (at bottom of box) 
packs needing outside repairs (sent out) 
packs needing inside repairs (on top of good packs) 
pot scrubbers 

pot bags 

personel packs (small canvas knapsacks) 
bars Sunlight soap 

pack repair material (leather, buckles, stitching awl) 
spar varnish 

marine grade yellow paint 

paint brushes 

wire brush 

ambroid glue 

assorted repair tape 

tool boxes with assorted hardware and tools 
rubber mallets 

steel box of brass screws 

screwing brace 

spirit level 

Raid bug killer 

coils of nylon rope (10' each) 

bush saws with guards 

axes with covers (one needs new handle) 
pairs of fire gloves 

trenching shovels (one needs new handle) 
nine man sail-silk tents 

six man sail-silk tent 

nine man tent flies 

16 oz. plastic jars 

12 oz. plastic jars 

plastic seal-top bottles 

melmac eating bowls 

melmac cups 

life preservers 

spare paddles 

cutlery for 30 people 

aluminum canoes 

Chestnut cedar strip canoes 


APPENDIX FOUR: FIRST AID SUPPLIES CARRIED 


small tubes of antiseptic ointment (first aid cream) 
small tubes of ointment for burns, bug bites, poison ivy 
25 pill bottle of Gravol 

100 tablet bottles of Halazone 

tube of Lypsyl 

25 pill bottle of asperin 

12 tablet tube of 222's 

2 oz. bottle of Kaopectate 

3 packages of 3M suture strips (3 to a package) 

1 oral thermometer in case 

1 roll of adhesive tape (%" by 5 yards - J&J Dermicel) 
48 large bandaids 

1 Ace elastic bandage (2" width) 

sterile gauze pads (4" by 4" Steripads) 

sterile gauze pads (3" by 3" Steripads) 

tweezers 

small scissors 

box of (1'"' by 10 yd.) regular bandage 

box of (4" by 10 yd.) regular bandage 

eye pad in sterile package 

lo ml. bottle of Polysporin ear and eye drops 

safety pins 

salt tablets 

St. John Ambulance First Aid booklet 

dime for phone 


