II 


POSITION ON LANGUAGE TRAINING 


Policy 


The Association adopted "The'Y and the Montréal Fact" aS policy in 1975. 
References to personnel include: 


A) Staffing 


The necessary steps be taken to ensure that a staff force representing 
the required qualities in terms of skills and commitment can conduct — 
the public and internal affairs of the Association in French and English. 


Strategy 


A) When hiring and promoting the ability. to work in both languages or the 
willingness to gain the skills becomes of significant importance for 
positions where bilingualism is designated as necessary. 


B) Attention should be given in the recruitment of staff to their cul- 
tural background as future developments will require staff indigenous 
to the two predominent cultures. 


C) To proceed immediately on a priority basis with a French language 
training program for present staff. 


Language training for staff has been identified as a priority and every unit 
should be able to operate bilingually by 1979. The number of positions in 
the Association available to unilingual persons will become increasingly 
fewer. The Association is committed to provide support and assistance to 
staff. 


Present Program and Future Trends 


The present program was designed and is operated especially for YMCA staff 
by the Department of Linguistic Services. To date selection of staff for 
language training has been very broad, but by September 1977 it will have 
become more selective. Some staff members, in jobs identified as high 
priority, will be participating in an accelerated program. 


By June 1977, language priority for all jobs will be clarified.- The train- 
ing program for 1977-78 will include both regular and accelerated programs. 


ill 


Common Questions and Answers 


Ts 


What is bilingualism? 


Within the Association, bilingualism is the ability of an individual to 
communicate in and understand the two official languages. 


. What is a working language? 


The language in which verbal and written communications occur between 
and among employees. : 


. What is competence in a working language? 


The ability of an individual to communicate and understand in order to 
carry out his or her job. 


. What is or will be the working language of the Association? 


Both French and. English will be working languages in the YMCA. Increas- 
ingly, a working knowledge of French will become a reality in the Montréal 
Association. 


. If my job is classified as one requiring bilingualism, how much time will 


I have to learn the second language? 


The time required will naturally depend on your present second language 
capability, the level of bilingualism required in your position and the 
time available for language training. 


. When and how will I find out if my knowledge of the second language meets 


the requirements of my position? 


Most of you know already, however in the next 3 months the second language 
requirements, if any, of your position with respect to both internal and 
external communications will be clarified. 


If I take language instruction, will it be during or after working hours 
and what proportion of the cost will the Association pay? 


Our policy allows for some or all language training to take place during 
working hours and provides for payment of some or all of the cost. The 
actual proportion of such training taken during next year's working hours 
will depend on the relative urgency and priority of the individual situation 
and the degree to which the time to be devoted to such training is appro- 
priate to the language needs of the position. 


10. 


Wh. 


12. 


13. 


. Bilingualism is required in my job and I am fluently bilingual. Will 


I be compensated for this skills? 


Not directly. Yourincome is related to your job performance and your 
total set of skills, not any particular one of them. 


. What happens when a present staff member has not acquired the necessary 


degree of bilingualism required of his position? 


Everyone is capable of acquiring at least some degree of proficiency in 
the other language. If such degree is inadequate, changes in position 
content or reorganization could be the solution. In a few instances, © 
individuals might be assigned to another position where bilingualism is 
not required. 


Will additional staff be available to provide acti when eiiayens are 
learning a second language? 


Not necessarily, but time required for language training will be considered 


when determining staffing levels. All employees will contribute some 
personal: time for language training. 


Will there be any positions in the Association not requiring the two 
languages? 


Yes, but very few. 


Can I communicate with my superior in my own language? 

You are entitled to do so. However, if your superior cannot communicate 
in your language, he will require time to acquire the necessary skills. 
Everything else being equal, will a bilingual person be given priority 
in promotions? 


Yes. 


