5 KANAWANA } 


‘S, 


cass 


CAMP DIRECTOR'S REPORT 1977 


a 


KAMP KANAWANA 1977 


DIRECTOR'S REPORT 


Well we made tt! Kamp Kanawana has ended leaving behind rich 
memories for hundreds of people. From the time we started to 
work on K.K. '77, | sensed it was going to be a good year. It 
was the best year the Kamp has had In the last 5 years. This 
report may seem overly optimistic but It ts,. as written - a 
report on a super summer. 


This year ts a turning point for dear old Kanawana. The bull- 
dozers have started work for the new year round site. As this 
is the last year of K.K. as we've known It, this report will 
mentton some of the highlights and statistics of 1977 with some 
relevant recommendations for the first year of the renovated 
and new Kanawana sites. 


KAMPERS: _ 


‘For’ some reasons, unknown to me, registration at summer camps 


was very low this year. Kanawana was not unaffected by this 
trend, as we also saw a significant decrease In our registration 


“with our actual flgure of 1174 kamper weeks. 


“We worked with 414 different children. The returnee rate of 


kampers was the highest In at least 10 years, with the figure of 
54.8% (vs the previous high from 1975 of 46.8%). For detalis 
see Appendix A. . 


STAFF: 


A most significant feature of this summer was our staff. Thelr 
cooperative spirit was at a high all summer. It was not un- 
common to observe staff working above and beyond the call of 
duty. In my 19 years of camping, | don't believe I've seen a 
fIner and more dedicated crew of people working at any camp. | 


belleve any camp director would be proud as ! was, of such a 


fine group. 


The average age of program staff was 20.7 years with 66% of 
these being former Kanawantans. Durtng the summer, two staff 
were dismissed for behavioural reasons. It was unfortunate but 
necessary to adhere to our policies of work at Kanawana. 


Our Assistant Kamp Director, Kerry Finucan, deserves a special 

mention here. Many of the programs that I've wanted to see 

happen at K.K. did happen this summer. Under Kerry's excellent 
direction, a more flexible and relevant system of Interest groups 

was successfully carried out. His mature, energetic and In- 

novative approach to Kanawana and his job, made him a real asset 

to the Kamp and myself. 1 congratulate and thank Kerry for his 

great work. Kanawana will be truly fortunate to have him back In '78. 


To the staff of 1977, a well deserved thanks.... 


The staff of 1977 were: 


Cynthia Aboud 
Susan Ambrose 
Brian Arbuthnot 
Joanne Armstrong 
Susan Armstrong 
Michael Arscott 
Steve Bauman 
Chris Bishop 
Claude Boucher 
lan Chester 
Christiane Corbin 
Kelly Curlitss 
Susan Davis 

Susan Dean 
Jean-Claude Deglaire 
Trudy Dulvenvoorden 
Patricia Evans 
Kerry Finucan 
Bill Flaschner 
Kevin Forster 
Geoffrey Fox 
Richard Fray 
Cathy Fryer 

Nancy Fulford 
Ross Gill 

Julie Greenwood 
David Grimala 
Olga Hall 

David Hart 

John Hergel 
Richard (ltche) Kerr 
Amy Kuntz 

Jacques Labelle 
Terry Lamb 

Miche]! Lane 


Senltor Girls Rover-Counsellor 
Junior Girls Rover-Counsel lor 
Sentor Boys Section Director 
Waterfront Auxillary 

Junior Girls Rover-Counsellor 
Senfor Boys Counsellor 

Junior Waterfront Director 
Senior Boys Counsellor 

Senior Girls Counsellor 

Sentor Boys Counsellor 

Kitchen 

Bustness Office Assistant 
Junfor Girls Counsellor 

Senior Girls Counsellor 

Chef 

Juntor Girls Section Director 
Junior Girls Counsellor 
Assistant Kamp Director 

Senior Boys Counsellor 

Junftor Boys Section Director 
Business Office Manager 

Junior Boys Counsellor 

Senior Girls Section Director 
Sentor Girls Tripper-Counsellor 
Kitchen 

Kitchen 

Senior Boys Counsellor 

Camp Secretary 

Junfor Boys Counsellor 

Juntor Boys Counsellor 
Counsellor-in-Training Director 
Kitchen 

Maintenance 

Hike & Trip Auxiliary 8 Counsellor 
Truck Driver 


Staff List continued 


Tony Latimer 
Burke Lawrence 
John Lawrence 


Genevieve L'Esperance 


Sharon Levine 
Adele (Misty) McKay 
Alison Marshall 
Beverley Membride 
Melanie Moynan 
David O'Donnel | 
David Palttel 
Bill Perras 

Wendy Prince 
Peter Relzes 

Jeff Roberts 

Eric Sandmark 
Peter Sandmark 
Stewart Sandmark 
John Savage 


Nancy (Chad) Sawyer 


Kate Schissler 
John Siverson 
Don Smith 

Donald Southern 
Julien Tasse 
Yves Tasse 

Lisa Taylor 

Rod Taylor 

David Townson 
David Vaillancourt 
Al Vaughan 
Robert Woodhouse 


Junior Boys Rover-Counsellor 
Tripper 

Senltor Boys Counsellor 

and Hike & Trip Auxiliary 
Junior Girls Rover-Counsellor 
Doctor 

Juntor Girls Counsellor 
Sentor Girls Counsellor 
Junior Girls Counsellor 
Nurse 

Canoeing Director 

Junior Boys Counsellor 
Maintenance 

Junior Girls Counsellor 
Senior Boys Tripping-Counsellor 
Les Voyageurs Director 

Arts & Crafts Asststant 
Juntor Boys Counsellor 

Arts & Crafts Director 
Kitchen 

Assistant Hike & Trip PiTSeTer 
Nurse's Assistant 
Maintenance 

Doctor 

Hike & Trip Director 
Maintenance Supervisor 
Malntenance 

Senior Girls Counsellor 
Juntor Boys Counsellor 
Senior Boys Rover-Counsellor 
Kitchen 

Senior Waterfront Director 
Les Voyageurs Tripper 


STAFF TRAINING: 


Tralning of staff started early in May with twenty-seven of our 
program staff successfully completing the standard St. John's 
Ambulance first-ald course. This was pald for by the Quebec 
Workmen's Compensation Board. In addition, staff were sent to 
the followIng courses and conferences: 


Ontarto Camping Association Conference - 4 people 
Ontarto Camping Association Counsellors Workshop - | person 
Quebec Camping Association Conference - 6 people 
Canadian Yachting Association Instructors Course - I person 
Canadian Recreational Canoeing Association 
Instructors School - 2 people 
Archery Instructors School - | person 
National WoodsmanshIp School - | person 
Visits to St. Hilaire Conservation Centre - 2 people 
YMCA Aquatics Instruction School - | person 


The.8 day pre-kamp program was good and only minor modifications 
should be considered for next year. It was augmented beforehand 
by a 28 page staff manual which was developed by the staff 
committee last winter. 


Some of this season's success was due to many things. I! belteve 
+he staff manual and the pre-kamp program both contributed 
significantly to this. 


In '78 our training and assistance for training courses should 
continue. 


PROGRAM: 


| was very: Impressed with the program this summer. The modific- 
ation of interest groups to make them coed and varying the 
length, proved to be very desirable for all and should be 
considered for '78. There are some other modifications that 
could be made and should be considered for next season. 


All program areas operated very well this summer. Hike & Trip, 
both waterfronts, Arts & Crafts all ran well. Thanks to Don 
Southern, Al Vaughan and Stewart Sandmark, | do not have: any 
suggestions for improvement In these areas. 


An Interest group which was brought back this year (from 1972) 
was rock climbing. It proved to be very popular and hopefully 
wiil continue fn 1978. 


Program continued 


Due to a grant from the Federal Government Young Canada Works 
Program, we were able to accomplish a number of things that I've 
wished to do since 1973. These included: 


- tralls around Lakes Kanawana and Wilson 
- building and improving campsites 
~ construction of a Hebertism course 


This course will require a couple of days work 
by someone knowledgeable with ropes. 
First indications are that it will be a very 


popular program area next summer. 
Some of the special programs we experienced included: 


Christmas Day Swim meet with Lac Marois 
Association 
Topsy-Turvy Day 
The Energetic Company 


Kanawana 500 (skits on energy conservation) 
cross-country 

car rally Santa Claus Parade 

Olympics Day Klondyke Day 

World Record Day Derek Walsh invitation al 


golf tournament 
Fishermen's Supper 
Pyjama Breakfasts 
Letter Lunches, etc. 
Lumbermen-Voyageur Competitions 
Green Triangle Banquet (Lumbermen won) 


A special mention to the Junior Boys Section Director, Kevin 
Forster who Initiated a number of the above in his section. 


During the summer, almost every Kanawanian had some sort of 
overnight experience. Our truck travelled over 19,000 miles, 
with trips to Vermont, 31 Mile Lake, Post River, White Fish 
Reservoir, Mont Laurier, Lac Legare & Clear Lake among other 
regions. 


Hike & Trip statistics: 


Backpacking trips (Vermont) 6 
Extended canoe trips 19 
Local hikes & overnights 38 
Sneakouts dz 
Total number of Out-trips 75 
Total number of People Nights 1196 


Some specific recommendations for '78 programs are: 
- update staff manual for the two kamps. 
- constder and study modifications to present systems. 


- have Assistant Kamp Director spend more time In May 
studying program ideas. 


~ assign one person to Hebertism course to train staff, 
supervise and maintain course. 


- look closely at present equipment and resources wlth 
a view to replenishing for next summer, te program 
equipment, Hike & Trip equipment, watercraft. 
STAFF COMMITTEE: 
Since last December, a group of 12 K.K. staff have worked with 
me planning for this summer. Some Items dealt with, developed 
or recommended were: 
~ staff manual 
- policies for staff and kampers 
- Interest group system 
- C.1.T. program 
- staff agreement 
- building plans, etc. 
This work not only was a big help to Kanawana but also developed 
a commitment to Kamp at an early stage. The committee should 


continue to operate In the development of our plans of our two 
site operation next year. 


isthe 


COUNSELLOR-IN-TRAINING PROGRAM: 


For the first time since !|'ve been at Kanawana, ! can say we had 
an excellent 8 week C.1.T. program. Under Its Director, Itche 
Kerr, the group of 13 C.1.T.s were exposed to on-the-job training 
In virtually every area of Kamp. 
Also included were: 

- a 6 day canoe trip 


- Bronze Medallion |ffesaving course 


~ C.1.T. exchange with the YWCA's Camp Oolahwan 
and the Lac Marois Association 


- skill sessions in canoeing, campcraft, salling, etc. 


- sessions in group dynamics, philosophies of camping, 
the YMCA and Kamp Kanawana. 


- etc. 
If any, only minor alterations are required for the C.1.T. program 
next year (other than looking at how It will operate In 2 sites). 
The success ‘of the program was due to Itche for the commendable 
way he ran It. 


HEALTH & SAFETY: 


Again this year we were fortunate to have a resident doctor. 
Doctors Sharon Levine (Section Director 1973) and Don Smith were 
always avallable to treat all the aches, palns, scrapes, etc. of 
our 250 or so people at Kamp. Our Nurse, Melanie Moynan did an 
admirable job In coping with the general running of the hospital, 
feeding patients, etc. 


One thing that | believe helped our health situation this summer 
was the use of disposable dishes in our kitchen. So much so that 
| recommend they be used at both sites next year. 


The actual number of colds, sore throats, etc. did decrease from 
'76,. During the summer, 2 kampers were sent home due to accidents 
and 2 due to illness. Two staff were hospitalized in Montreal - 
one for appendicitis and the other for unknown reasons. Overall 
it was a relatively healthy summer at Kamp. 


FOOD SERVICES: 


A year ago, | recommended that we increase our food spending by 
30%, | now believe that In so dolng a right decision was made. 
Our food service was managed by Bob Gill of Fan Fare Foods. | 
have nothing but praise for Bob and our Chef, Jean-Claude 
Deglaire for the fine job that was done this summer. | know 
+here Is still room for Improvement but nevertheless it was still 
more satisfactory this summer than it has been In the last five 
years. 


in terms of our survey, here are the results of Food Services 
(as answered by the kampers' parents). 


Question: From what you have heard, how would you 
rate the food? 


1974 1975 1976 1977 


Excellent 94 8% 6% 32.66% 
Very Good 25% 34% 17% 36.86% 
Good . | 35% 37% 44% 24.14% 
Fair * 23% 19% 23% 5.6% 


Poor 5% 2% 10% 1.42% 


wv 


MAINTENANCE: 

It was a busy summer for Jullen Tasse and his crew as we began 
some of our planned renovations. I'm still overwhelmed at the 
amount of patching up, transplants, repair work and construc}ion 
that this man does every summer. Kanawana is truly fortunate To 
have such a capable caretaker as Julien, particularly during 
this time of construction and renovation. 


Some of the things done this summer over and above the regular 
repairs and maintenance Included: 


- replacing the Kamp sign 
- erecting a new gate 
- painting the caretaker's house 


- staining and painting the Lodge and Business Office 
bul lding 


- repair and repainting the 16 rowboats 
- installing a new septic tank for the B.0. 


- replacing or repalring various doors, balconies, 
cabins, etc. 


A special thanks to our Arts & Crafts Director, Stewart Sandmark 
who made the new signs for Kamp. Kanawana and the Outing Club. 


PROMOTION: 


The amount of money spent on promotion was minimal as compared 
to a few years ago. | am not convinced that ft is really 
necessary to spend large sums of money, however, due to our 
lower registration, it must be considered for '78. 


This year's promotion included the following: 


- 2300 brochures were distributed via phone 
inquiries, YMCA branches and staff. 


~- a calendar-review was again produced - 
1000 coptes were sent to '76 Kanawantians 
and friends of K.K. 


Promotion continued 


The Montreal YMCA placed numerous ads In several 
Montreal newspapers. 


Kanawana was listed In tho American directory of 
schools and camps as well as the Quebec Camping 
Association directory (14,000 distributed). 


On behalf of the Q.C.A. |! was interviewed on 
CFCF, CJAD, CBC and CJFM radio stations. 


Feature articles appeared in the Montreal Star 
and Gazette for which | was interviewed on behalf 
of the Q.C.A. 


Stx issues of the Green Triangle were sent to all 
'76 Kanawantans. 


A K.K. birthday card was developed and sent to all 
Kanawantans on their birthdays. 


The Kanawana reunion was held in April with over 
200 kampers attending. 


Kanawana participated in a booth at the Conference © 
of the Quebec Federation of the Home & School 
Association. 


As the following will show most of our new kampers hear about 
Kanawana ¢rom friends or neighbours. Here Is the result of 
our post-kamp questionnaire: 


Question: If your child was a new Kanawantan 


this year, how did you hear about 
Kamp Kanawana? ; 


1974 1975 1976 1977 


Friend or neighbour 30% 8% 51% 47% 
YMCA Branch 15 20 18 19 
Q.CsA- 6 3 7 


Advertising 14.9 9 7 4 


Promotion continued 


School 2 4 | 4 
Relative of former kamper 36 20 20 9 
K.K. Staff member 5 
Newspaper article 3 


Kanawana Outing 
Club member 2 


MONTREAL OFFICE: 


It was a busy year for our camp secretary, Olga Hall. The 
extra work related to the building and renovations of K.K. 
as well as the Camp Director being President of the Q.C.A. 
substantially tncreased her work load. For her continued 
dedication, optimism and support | am very thankful. J know 
the parents of kampers appreciate her efficient and pleasant 
ways of handling the office. 


1978 


During the past year, the Branch Building Committee has refined 
the plans for the new construction and renovation of the 
Kanawana property. 1978 will Initiate a two site operation. 
-The present site will have 98 senior kampers while the new year 
round site, at the west end of Lake Kanawana beyond Farewell 
Rock, will house 98 juniors. 


DurtIng the summer, a group of us visited three YMCA year round 
camps in the U.S. Much was learned from an architectual, 
engineering and program standpoint that will be of value for 
the future. 
Currently the work being done is as follows: 

- renovation of block house and farm house 

~ enclosing and renovating the dining hall 


- relocating tent platforms in the new and old sites 


- erecting a new shower bullding in the senfor section 


During the winter some bulldings will be relocated or demolltshed,. 
By June 1978 the new site will be in operation with four double 


self-contained living units, six tent platforms and a large 
multi-purpose dining-recreation hall. 


The project will cost approximately $850,000. We have hired 
three additional fulltime maintenance people to assist In the 
carrying out of the above work. 


SPECIFIC RECOMMENDATIONS : 


This year buses were rented from the Laurentians 
rather than Montreal. This enabled us to have a 


3 hour break at Kamp between groups. It was also 


less expensive. This arrangement proved success~ 
ful and should be continued in 1978. 


Our revised policies (as written In the staff 
manual) regarding clgarettes in Kamp for staff 
and kampers was well accepted by parents and 
Kanawantans alike. These should be maintained 
next year. 


The Introduction of health food and fruit juices 
in the Business Office was well received by both 
staff and kampers. This should be done again in 
1978. 


Virtually all staff from '77 could be rehired in 
'78. There are, however, a small number that 
should not be considered. The personnel 
confidential file In the Camp Office should be 
consulted for details. 


Due to the operation of 2 sites next year, if 
will be necessary to keep our staff, parents and 
kampers Informed of the changes. Perhaps a 
bulletin explaining the physical and program 
changes should be widely circulated. 


The non-refundable deposit required for the 
registration of kampers should be increased 
substantially next year. Since June Ist, 1977, 
there were 108 kamper weeks of cancellations. 


Consideration should be given to a program of 
replacing all canoes and rowboats with low 
maintenance ones, (ie aluminum or whatever). 
This could be done over a 5 to 10 year period. 


wr 


et 


CONCLUSION: 


As | said at the beginning of this réport, this year was the 
best of the last five years at Kamp Kanawana. 


The following response from the parents of this summer's kampers 
indicates this. It gives me a feeling of satisfaction to know 
that the hard work of recent years on my part and that of the 
staff has been worthwhile and as a result the Kamp has steadily 
Improved. 


Question - What is your appraisal of Kanawana? 


1974 1975 1976 1977 


Excellent 28% 29% 30% 39.42% 
Very Good 60 56 53 54.02 
Good — 12 1413 6.57 
Fair 0 oo 4 0 
Poor — 0 25 0 0 


Certainly, the success of Kanawana is due to a lot of people. 
To our Board of Management and Chairman Phil Davey, a thank you 
from the YMCA and Kamp Kanawana for their constant advice, 
support and hard work. 


To our kampers, | shall always be indebted to you - for It fs 
you that make all this worthwhile. 


It is hoped that this report will be of value to those who 
worked at Kamp this summer and as well to those who wil! plan 
for *78. 


To the future successes of Kamp Kanawana. 


Respectfully submitted, 


Wk br2b 


Derek V. Walsh, 
Director of Camping. 


APPRECIATION: 


Appreciation is expressed to the following who contributed to 
the success of Kanawana. 


Ivanhoe Corporation for permitting us to use the parking 
lot of the Dorval Gardens Shopping Centre as the Montreal 
terminal for kamper transportation. 


The staff of the Montreal YMCA for their continued 
encouragement and cooperation. 


Our 13 C.l.Tes for their work and assistance at Kamp this 
summer. 


Our many neighbours around Kamp who so willingly permit 
us to use their properties and assist us in many ways. 


The Drug Companies who so generously donated medications 

and supplies for our infirmary, Burroughs Wellcome, 

Cooper Laboratories, Connaught, Parke-Davis, A. H. Robins, 
Schering Corporation, Sterling Drug, Syntex, Upjohn Company, 
Winthrop Laboratories. 


George Balcan and Jack Finnigan of CJAD radio who spoke about 
some of our programs this summer. 


To Canadian Erectors Limited and its President Stanley Hawkins. 


To Jim Simpkins for his donation of the design of our Kanawana 
birthday card. 


To Montreal Copy Centre for various free printings. 


To the Westmount, West Island and Downtown Branches for 
lending us rooms for meetings. 


To the Clouston Company for the loan of a drink machine. 


To Tom Thompson for the donation of 4000 K.K. postcards. 


a HOPE 


Look to this day! 

For it ts life; 

The very life of life. 

In its brief course lie all the varieties 
and realties of your existence. 

The bliss of growth; 

The glory of action; 

The splendor of beauty. 

For yesterday is already a dream, 
and tomorrow is only a vision; 

“But today, well lived, 

Makes every yesterday a dream of happiness, 


And every tomorrow a vision of hope. 


°y - Anonymous 


