ia 


| would like to begin my report by making a few comments on this 
summer. Unfortunately, our registration was rather low this year. 
| am unable to fathom why this was so. We placed advertisements 
in two English newspapers but got no results from those ads. 
Perhaps the old yellow posters for Kamp Kanawana, Les Voyageurs 
and Wilderness Camp could be updated and posted in Y Branches 

and schools. This may help create an interest In both camps. 


It is not viable to Implement a complete marketing scheme for 
camp, but | do have a few suggestions that may be used In the 
future. The posters are one which might prove successful. In 
addition, we might contact the publisher of one of the coloured 
sections (ie The Weekend and The Canadian) carried on weekends 
by newspapers. An article in one of these magazines might do 
much to promote interest In Y camps. T-shirts for Les Voyageurs 
would be a good way to get some coverage. |! know that there is 
a sketch of a print that could be turned into a sitkscreen for 
printing on T-shirts. Contact Eric Sandmark for this sketch. 
There is also a slide show available for use. Some of the slides 
are owned by the Y and some are privately owned. It would not 
cost much for the camp to purchase copies of the private slides. 
This slide show could be used for those who express an Interest 
in the camp.. 


| found that this summer ran smoothly with the exception of some 


problems with the truck and trailer. in future years ! think 
that the staff for Les Voyageurs should all be im camp one week 
before the first trip goes out. This will allow adequate time 


to plan and prepare for the trips. This would also leave enough 
time to pack the food for the whole summer. If everything is 
prepared before the first trips go out then much of the time 
between trips may be used as days off. It is important that 
trippers have at least two days off between trips. If possible 
more time should be allowed. Three two week trips in a row 

makes for a fairly gruelling summer. However, ft ts the Director's 
responsIibIility to ensure that things are organized well enough to 
allow staff adequate time off. 


In regards to equipment and food there should be drawn-up, before 
camp, tists of everything to be taken on each trip from canoes to 
matches. This would help In packing. These should be typed and 
coples made. They can be updated-.as necessary. 


| might comment here that the lower age of campers should be 


raised from 13 years to 14 years. In general 13 year olds do 
not profit that much from their experience. There, of course, 
are exceptions . | think at the very least that 13 year old 


applicants should be interviewed by staff members. 


This year we began to keep information files on campers. The 

purpose of this is to have records of previous campers to that 
the staff has a better tdea of the personality and skills of © 

these returning campers. 


Coed Trips: 


Two out of five trips this summer were coed trips. I! can see 
no reason for not continuing this practice. 1! think tt would 

be best that If there were two trips goIng out at the same time, 
that one be coed and one males or females only. Not all people 
are Interested In coed trips. If registration permits then all 
girl trips should be encouraged. 


With the advent of second staff, or trippers-tIn-tratining, it 

has been necessary to Increase the size of each trip. It Is not 
financlally viable to send out two canoes with two staff and 

four campers. As such the standard group In the future will be 
three canoes, two staff and up to seven campers. Although this 
does make the group slightly slower and cumbersome ft works quite 
well. -Anyway, there is very little 'wilderness' left in the La 
Verendrye area and it is not as important as tt once was to have 
highly mobile ‘disciplined’ groups. * 


Reference should be made to Jim Pelton, John Kennedy and Diane 
Morrisette for more information on these groups. 


Unfortunately, due to low registration | had io cance! both three 
week canoe trips. | don't think that these trips should be 
cancelled altogether but should be continued. If changes must be 
made then there should be one three week trip at least which Is led 
by an experienced tripper. The campers would be potential second 
staff. The purpose of these trips would be to explore and/or open 
up new country for Les Voyageurs. This should be a priority due to 
the ever increasing 'traffic' im and around Pare de la Verendrye. 


| mention now that there is a need for a Voyageur staff canoe trip 
before the summer. This would help acclimatize both trippers and 
second staff. It would allow staff to learn new skills from each 
other and to observe other styles of canoe trippIng. This trip 
need not be long, three days should be sufficient. The experience 
would be Invaluable in the amount of knowledge transferred among 
staff. 


| think that second staff members should be paid $50.-$75. per 
trip taken out. Perhaps $75. is a bit high but it ts unreasonable 
to assume that we can attract the necessary Individuals without 
giving them any type of financial reward. 


Brochure: 


Again the brochure might be updated. [ heard a few comments from 
campers to this effect. However, most campers felt it sufficient. 


One comment | would like to make is that | question the changing 
of covers. | think the previous cover was much better and in 
itself conveyed a message. | have enclosed a copy of the original 
cover. to the brochure In appendix |. 


Staff: 


This summer the only tripper to work with me was Jim Pelton. 
Considering he was somewhat lacking in previous tripping expertence 
he performed his job admirably. 1! can see no reason for not hiring 
him next year. He worked very well with campers and managed his 
trips well. 1 think he learned a lot from this summer and if | 
were Director next year | would not hesitate in hiring him if he 
gets his St. Johns Ambulance certificate and updates his Bronze 
medallion. 


When confronted with an accident, not quite of emergency proportion, 
he acted well and with forethought. His spirit is very good. The 
only exception that {| may point out Is that by the end of the third 
2 week trip he was beginning to burn out. He might perhaps spend 
his days off getting a touch more rest and relaxation In years to 
come. 


If Jim wishes to return next year then | think that he should be 
sent to Canoeing School in order to consolidate and enhance his 
canoeing skills. ! think that this would be beneficial to both 
Jim and the camp. Jim is someone who Is worth keeping around 
Les Voyageurs-for future years. 


The only adverse comments | can make | can also explain. IJ found 
his attitude in and around camp to be a jittle exaggerated,immature 
and self-defeating. | am not saying that these patterns of behaviour 
were predominant or even prevelant but they were apparent to myself. 
However, it must be considered that he did, successfully, take out 
three 2 week canoe trips in his first year as a tripper. |! think 
these behavioral characteristics were out of tune for him and were 

a result of the responsibilities and stresses of a tripper taking 
extensive canoe trips. I! am quite certaln these practices will 

not be repeated In the future. 1 must mention that 1, myself, 

acted in a similar manner In my first year as a Voyageur tripper. 
Again, ! recommend that Jim Pelton be rehired if he applies. 


Robert D. Woodhouse 
Direct... 


Andre Masson 


Andre was my second staff inamber on two trips for a total of four 
weeks. In general 1 am Impressed with Andre. His skills are 
quite good in almost all aroas. If he wishes to return to Les 
Voyageurs in future yoars he must get his Bronze fn swimming and 
his St. Johns Ambulanco, | aiso strongly recommend that he get 


to go to Woodsmanship School before working as a tripper. This 
would allow him to consolidate his skills. 


The only area where I was disa , 

3 ppointed with Andre was that he 
tended to be a peta dictatorial with campers. This is not a 
major problem as This tondoncy is not an extreme case. Again | 


think a course at the Woodsmanship Schoo! would modify this 
behavior. 


Andre's canoeing skills 

these skills may be pick 
to return for more than 

School. 


are good but not exceptional. However, 
od up with more experience. If he wishes 
One year he should be sent to a Canoeing 


His campsite skills aro good but he could benefit from a few camp- 
Sheth Seeercns in Kanawana as well as gotng to Woodsmanship School. 
Andre's map reading skills are fair but he shows great interest and 
potential. | would not consider this area a problem. 


Overall, ! think Andre woutg 
able to establish a good ra 
be better off if his as 


make a good Voyageur tripper. He is 
pport with campers. If think he would 
Sistant tripper had good experience. 


1f Andre applies for tho 
qualifications and i 
should be accepted. 


Job and has acquired the necessary 
S WIIling to go to Woodsmanship School he 


If time and money permlt Canoeing School would be beneficial. 


Andre might be considerod 
Kanawana. I'm not sure 
any sort of gratitude. 
if such was the case. 


for a position as counsellor at Kamp 
1f he would receive this suggestion with 
He would also make a good camp tripper 


Robert D. Woodhouse 
Director 


Diane Morrissatty 


Kanawana C.1.T. «4 Ayo 16 


2 week coed trl) total 9 people 


Diane ee ls the consummate Voyageur. She displays the 
full range Of Qualities and talents necessary to be'tripping 


material’ par oxceltence, These abilities are doubly effective 
by virture of har bttingualism. 


She sterned Canows 
of two weeks. Hor 
Bowman weighed twi¢ 
mine and she didn! 


with a variety of paddlers over the course 
skills were strained only once when the 

© as much as she. The fault of this was 

t complain. 

At camp she had ful! knowledge of the routines and duties, 

and she both suporvised and aided in thelr execution. As Ina 
canoe, there was seldom any questioning of her abilities or 
authority. Reatlon tn her canoes was both swift and accurate; 
when Diane sald "gor out", they got out - fast. Generally her 
skills and her Mbl lity to communicate them were amazing. 


On portages Be dir! was tough. She outperformed nearly all 
TG eee ay and never was there a word of complaint 
except to confirm my own fealing of annoyance. 


Her coordinatlon on some unbellevably mucky terrain was 

excellent (despIty infrequent problems with her ankles). Her 
awareness W3aS Porfoct - she always knew where everything/everyone 
was and her ability and willingness to engage the most difficult 
challenges proved to be an Inspiration to all others. It was 


here that her loadorship abilities were most evident. She leads 
by example rathaor than command. 


Her organizational abiyities with regard to food, campsites and 
other things are superb without question. As Is proper she was 
also aware Of Who wore what clothes on any given day insuring 
that all campers 


hod a supply of dry clothes. 


She could also cook, 


In concluston, ! woutd like to say that Diane Morrisette Is a 
vivacious, enerqatic, aware and responsible second staff. Her 
toughness and Strongth of character are most admirable. 


| do not wish to wake a 16 year old girl sound superhuman. She 
is 16 and this Tq evident, but the character sulted for tripptIng 
is often a black and white sort of thing - elther you have it or 
you don't. This Charming and gutsy young tady has ft! 


Jim Pelton 
Voyageur Tripper 


Diane Morrissette 7 


| had the time to observe Diane this summer under tripping 
conditions. She was a C.I.T. on the trip I took out for Kamp 
Kanawana. She was helpful In all capacities. She is able to 
establish a good rapport with campers while maintaining a staff 
member's position. There were no problems around the campsite 
as she is a willing worker and shows good judgement. Her skills 
are good. 


| also spent five days with Jim Pelton's group on which Diane 
was the second staff member. Even among campers her own age she 
had few problems maintaining an authority position. 


Diane will be an excellent staff person. It would be well worth 
the camp's time to encourage her In achteving skills. 


The only problems ! can foresee is that due to her age she may 
let her position 'go to her head’. I don't think this is likely 
and it is not a thing that should block her progress. 1 would 
accept her as a second staff member next summer although she may be 
good counsellor material. If such Is the case she should be 
encouraged to do both. ; 

Robert D. Woodhouse 

Director 


John Kennedy 


K.K. Master Canoeist 
Les Voyageurs Second Staff 


John Kennedy was my second staff for the first Voyageurs trip | ever led. 
He was also my second staff for the last trip of the season. Through the 
four weeks of tripping together we developed a tripping style unique unto 
ourselves along with a good friendship. Between the two of us we managed 
+o cause both confusfton and excitement among the interpersonal relations 
in both groups. This somehow prevented the occurance of an “underdog” 

in both trips. On these trips we also managed to introduce some of the 
kids to music (with harmonicas) and poetry (Rudyard Kipling being most 
popular). 


- John is an excellent canoeist, this summer receiving the Kanawana Masters. 

He was extremely beneficial for both the campers and myself in this respect. 
Furthermore, he has an ability to "read" rapids allowing us the opportunity 
+o "shoot" what we would otherwise have to avoid. By teaching the skills 
necessary and leading the way John greatly enhanced the travelling pleasure 
on trips. His canoe skills are invaluable to the Voyageurs and serious 
consideration should be given to furthering his abilities. For this | 

would consider sending John and possibly myself to a certified canoe school. 
This would be of value in at least two ways: |) it would enable Les 
Voyageurs to confidently and safely engage in exploratory trips, which seem 
at least potentially of great benefit considering the developing popularity 
of Parc de la Verendrye. 2) secondly, in the probable development of 
greater public concern for canoe safety, especially with kids the credentials 
and abilities of Les Voyageurs would not be questioned. * This motion, | feel, 
is In line with the already implemented concept of second staff. 


In the same vein John and myself should both, without doubt, be trained by 
qualified persons in First Aid and Cardiopulminary Resuscitation. 


| personally feel that, in this area, (medical problems) John would greatly 
benefit from courses. If John has a fault, its overaction in precisely this 
area - he tends to be excited to excess by blood. His reactions are of the 
“oversafe" variety which isn't bad as such but it indicates that movement 
from reason to emotion which an amount of knowledge will contain. 


This reactionary tendency is in marked contrast to other aspects of John's 
personality on trips. He sometimes tends towards a go-for-broke attitude 
which is a fantastic infection of energy for the whole group. 


John Kennedy (Cont'd) 


On the other hand | have found myself taking the opposite course of 

action on occasion which somewhat dampens spirits as a result. Ina 

sense this makes us a dynamic pair and the trips have something of both 

of us in them, but the aforementioned tendency may indicate a couple of 
things: |) that John has yet to recognize some types of limits (usually 
physical or logistical) that | have become aware of. 2) that Il, asa . 
tripper tend to hesitate on certain questions from a sense of responsibility 
Cand sometimes, honestly, instruct) and given the same responsibility I 
suspect he would be more conservative. 


In any event, it is this balance between wild and tame that John must 
develop. It may be that by next year John will have the necessary 
maturity - he certainly has the skills. I will reserve recommendations on 
his "promotion" on that account, io with the age considerations... (My 
conservatism?) 


pag Sy E98urs Tripper '79 


John Kennedy 


| was pleased with what | saw of John this summer. Unfortunately, | was not 
able to see him in a tripping situation but all reports | received of his 
performance were good. 


| think that John needs to mature a bit more before he is ready to become 

a Voyageur tripper. Perhaps | misread him and he needs more skills in 
certain areas such as First Aid and swimming. His canoeing and campcraft 
skills are admirable. t would recommend that he go to Woodsmanship School 
next year. Perhaps he would learn a different manner in accepting respons- 
ibilfty as well as learning new skills. 


John fs definitely good tripping material and will be a good addition to 
Les Voyageurs staff. He also might be considered for positions in camp. 
A year as a counsellor might be good for him but | am not sure if he is 

suited for such a position. 


He might also be considered as a Canoeing Director. I think he has the 
skills for this position. However, the Director of Kanawana must decide 
if John's mentality is right for this position. If he is accepted in 
this position he should be sent to Canoeing School to receive his 
Instructors. 


John also might be a good camp tripper. It is*also feasible that for 
his first year as a tripper he might work for both K.K. and Les Voyageurs. 


In any case, he must get his St. Johns Ambulance and his Bronze in 
swimming award for any position. 


Robert p- Woodhouse 


~-_~ 


»[G= 


Food: 


In the spring a master menu should be drawn up. It is important that this 
menu be used for all trips. Once the menu is drawn up and the projected 
number of campers determined (taken for the year's financial budget - 
projected revenues) then the quantities of food may be determined. 1 have 
included a menu from the summer of 1979 (Appendix II). This may be used 
as a guideline . There is one for 2 and 3 week trips feeding 6 people 
and one for 2 week trips feeding 9 people. In addition | have included 
some comments on the food used this past summer..- 


t wish to note that if possible the menu should be gone over by a dietitian, 
preferably one who has some knowledge of tripping. 


This year t ordered from Hardee, Gumperts and Silver Foods. In addition, 
t bought other foods that were not needed in bulk from Provegain in 

St. Sauveur. It was also necessary at times to purchase food from 
depanneurs on the way to the Park. Perhaps better planning could relieve. 
this problem. I was satisfied with the service of all suppliers.When 
ordering the Director should obtain the new price lists at least a month 
before camp. 


Once the desired quantities are known the food should be ordered so that 

it arrives at the very least one week before the first trip. Allow 
approximately one week for delivery. This gives about two weeks before 

camp that the food is ordered and should be sufficient to avoid shock~ 

outs on the part of the distributors. | have always had the food delivered 
to camp. Note: that this year | stored all food in the ground floor bedroom 
of the Farmhouse. Doing this avoided loss of food due to animals because 
the shed is not animal, or human proof. 


. cd 
| might mention here that plastic bags should be bought in bulk. If we 


‘cannot get them from the company (Glad Bags) we should try Silver Foods. 


if this is not successful we can buy them in most Pascal's by the case. 
Quantities should be approx. 1000 small sized bags and 1000 medium sizes. 
| have found that these bags are the best for two week trips as they are 
of a heavy gauge. The bags from Page's are only fair and available in 
only one size. They also don't have twist ties. 


New Food Used: 
Hardee Freeze Dried Porc Patties 


- proved to be very good. Gave a change from the predominantly beef dinners. 
It takes a little longer to cook but turnsrout very well. Tends to be a bit 


expensive but is only used for one or two meals per trip. Should be re-ordered. 


ats 
New Food Used Cont'd: 
Hardee Instant Apple Sauce 


~- worked out well. However, there was a tendency to use it in cooking 
main dishes. Much better than the Gumperts product. Re-order. 


Hardee Pineapple Tidbits 

- excellent. Very good in certain recipes. 

Re-order, one case is sufficient unless menu is changed substantially. 
Hardee Sliced Mushrooms 


- excellent, used ina number of dinners. Should be re-ordered and 
planned into meals. 


Hardee Strawberries 

- tasted good but not useful - do not re-order. 

Hardee Carrots 

- should be dropped completely from menu. Taste is overbearing. 

This year we dropped Hardee Chicken Stew from our menu. There was no 
misgivings in doing this. The Beef Stew and Chicken Stew taste somewhat 
similar. tn fact the least desiratle dinner on the menu was the prepared 


Beef Stew. This meal might be replaced if a suitable substitute is found. 


An alternative to the Beef and/or Chicken Stews might be the new Hardee 
Irish Stew. It has a comparable price. 


The Hardee Chicken has increased in price substantially. The quantities 


bought should be kept down. Two meals per trip should be sufficient. 
The chicken meals give an excellent break to the more common beef dinners. 


Tang Grapefruit Juice 
- excellent, has the most natural taste of any powdered drink. 
This year | dropped Apple drink with no misgivings. 


| also used liquid honey which worked out well, although quanti-ty was a 
little high. 


al 


Apricots have increased. greatly in price, although still a favourite. 
A cut in quantity might be suggested. Also, pre-measured amounts might 
be considered in packing. 


This year | started having soup with every dinner. Although it is a bother 
its very good and useful. I had no complaints of being hungry after dinner. 


For next year it may be considered using one or two of Hardee!s instant 
meals for lunch. A case of two meals could be purchased and experimented 
with on all trips throughout the summer. 


This year | ordered food from Silver Foods rather than Bronstein. | was 
pleased with the service . 


Equipment 


This summer we had the good fortune to get 8 new Grumman canoes. These 

were a very good addition to our equipment. We also installed gunnel guards 
on 6 of them and | am pleased to say that these gunnel guards were well worth 
the money spent on them. They stop a lot of the racket of paddles hitting 
the gunnel, protect the gunnels themselves, facilitate the tieing down of 
canoes on the trailer and do many other things that re aesthetically pleasing 
to the user of aluminum canoes. 


The only damage received to any of these canoes was a bent thwart. This 
thwart was bent when the right wheel fell off the. trailer while travelling 
up to the Park. 


We bought more Jifejackets this summer. The Floater brand were used more 
and are much s*perior for our purposes than the Stems brand. The Stems 
PFDs performed their job well but the "Floater" also serve} as a vest to 
keep people warm. There is a tendency for people to Wear the Floater all 
day long while the Stems are worn only in heavy weather or in rapids. 
Perhaps we could trade our Stems for some of the Floater canoe-Kayak 
vests that Kanawana has. . 


SVEA Stoves 


- an excellent purchase. They were not used very often but when they were 
used they did the job well. The intention of buying these stoves was that 
they would be for emergencies or special situations. They did that job 
well. They were carried in coffee cans and that worked out well. 


The gas cans, however, should be wrapped in 'gaffers' tape to protect them. 


Next year the camp should buy a large roll of gaffers tape for use at base 
camp as well as the regular rolls to put into the canoe repair kit. This, 
| think, would save some money. This tape is available at most Pascal's 
stores. 


-|4- 
Equipment Cont'd 


The camp needs more Chicago screws. See Pascal's in Westmount (Sherbrooke 
Street). Apparently these screws are not made anymore. If this is true 

a large quantity should be bought. They are the best rivets | have seen 
for pack repairs and are practically priceless. 


We used candle lanterns for the first time. They proved to be a worthwhile 
investment. Unfortunately, the ones we bought were difficult to 'load' with 
candles. Some of them are somewhat mengled as a result. There is another 
brand that has only one sliding bar on @ spring to push back to insert the 
candle. This is a much better idea. For future use, | saw these lanterns 
in the Mountain Hut. 


It might be an idea to look for collapsable tent poles for our 9-man tents. 
Apparently Finnie Manufacturing Company has some. Should be checked out. 
Consider that they might be lashed into the canoes especially if groups are 
of 3 canoes. 

We borrowed machetes from K.K. this summer. They were invaluable. Les 
Voyageurs should buy some so that each trip has one. Leather cases can 

be made in Arts & Crafts. This piece of equipment should be standard 

in our trip equipment. 


Tents & Flys a 

- some need new ropes. 100% braided cotton size No. 5 should be used. 
Should be at least 8 feet long each, preferably 10 feet. The ends should 
be sealed. P-tex candles would be ideal. These may be bought in any ski 
shop for about 75¢ each. 

Some of the axes in stock should be put to the grinding wheel. .It might 
be an idea to purchase one more long handled axe. mag 


Unfortunately, the packs are not in as good shape as they could be. In 
order to be fully operational in 1980 the staff of Les Voyageurs should 
plan on at least two full days of pack repairs in pre-camp. 


Maps 

This year | put together a new master map and devised a system of planning 
trips. The master map (scale 1:125,000) contains all the possible tripping 
area for Parc de la Verendrye and its environs. Marked In red are all the 
routes that have previously been done by groups of Les Voyageurs. From 
this map the tripper may plan his basic route. Once this is done, he may 
take out the large scale maps (150,000) to get a better view of the country. 
These maps are filed numerically. 


Maps Cont'd 


In addition, each map of this scale has a master map. This master Is 
not to be taken on trips. There are others in the file that are trip 
maps. This system permits us to accummulate information on routes on 
one map that will always be in camp. It is the responsibility of the 
Director and his staff to ensure that these maps are updates after each 
trip. This system is not complete but the inventory included in this 
report (appendix II) indicates which maps do not yet have masters 

and which maps need to be purchased. Maps may be bought at Circam in 
Complexe Desjardins. 


First Aid Kits 

We doubled the size of our kits this summer, each trip having two. This 
was a good move especially as one kit would be inadequate for a group of 
nine people. Again, check lists should be drawn up and typed. I! have 
included one such list in the appendix (IV) but it is not quite complete. 


| think it might be an idea to include vitamins in our kits for regular 
use. If the menu is examined by a dietitian then this idea may or may 
not be worthwhile. 


All trippers should have their St. Johns Ambulance First Aid course. 

As such the tripper should be the only person to carry any type of drugs 
in his kit. This kit should be off limits to anyone but the tripper and 
perhaps second staff members. 


