¥ 


LANGUAGE POLICY STATEMENT 


APPROVED BY THE NATIONAL BOARD FEBRUARY 24, 1979 


NATIONAL COUNCIL OF YMCAs OF CANADA 
2160 Yonge Street, Toronto, Ontario M4S 2A9 
416-485-9447 


NATIONAL COUNCIL OF YMCAs OF CANADA 


LANGUAGE POLICY STATEMENT 


A. PREAMBLE 


The Statement of Purpose of the National Council of YMCAs of Canada is 
as follows: 


The Young Men's Christian Association is a worldwide 
fellowship, dedicated to the growth of persons in spirit, 
mind and body, and in a sense of responsibility to each 
other and to the human community. 


Adopted May 24, 1970 - "The York Basis" 


This was the latest adaptation to the formal Statement of Purpose since the 
founding of the YMCA in Canada in 1851 and is the broadest and most 
inclusive Statement of Purpose. This revision stemmed from major debate 
at the 1968 National YMCA Conference where it was agreed that the 
YMCA in Canada should become more inclusive in its leadership and in the 


people served. 


A particular desire was expressed that the Association should become truly 
ecumenical in nature where Canadians of all faiths could feel at home. 

It was apparent that a reworded Statement of Purpose was needed to 
encourage fuller participation by women and youth and by French-speaking 


Canadians. 


In practice, National Council has fallen behind the reality of the 
Canadian YMCA today. This was recognized as early as 1976 at the 
"En Route '76" Conference when the following resolution, subsequently 
approved by the National Council, was overwhelmingly endorsed: 


In support of the Canadian National Council's 
commitment to the linguistic realities of our 
Movement, 

BE IT RESOLVED THAT we strongly support and 
recommend a continuted effort to provide services 
and communications bilingually where requested 
or necessary. 


Since 1976 the demands for such services and communications have 
increased dramatically. The encouraging success of some YMCAs and 
YM-YWCAs in serving both official language groups within their 
communities now has national implications. The National Council has 
the challenge of serving our entire membership with equal quality. 

This necessitates, by the very nature of our Canadian constituency, 
increased capacity in the two official languages. 


Some Associations have already approved policy statements, setting 
out targets to increase their capacity to serve in both languages. 


Currently there are 16 Associations across Canada serving communities 
where there are significant numbers of French-speaking Canadians. 
These Associations will be assisted through this Policy to increase their 
capability to serve in both languages. 


B. GOALS OF THE LANGUAGE POLICY 


1. To reflect at the National level the official linguistic 
realities of the Canadian nation and the YMCA federation. 


2. To service the YMCA federation in both official languages. 


C. OBJECTIVES OF THE LANGUAGE POLICY 


1, To ensure that both the Toronto and Ottawa offices have 
the ability to represent the National Council in both 
official languages. Such a representation will require as 
a minimum that within each office there will be a member 
of the professional staff and the appropriate support staff 
who can effectively communicate in whatever official 
language may be the minority. 


Present capabilities in this regard must be maintained and 
through the process of attrition and language training the 
above minimum position is to be attained no later than 
June 1982, 


2. To ensure that the materials and publications of the National 
Council reflect the linguistic realities of the YMCA federation, 
wherever physically feasible all materials (crests, booklets, 
letterheads, posters, etc.,) will be of a bilingual nature. 


YMCA publications will support this language policy ensuring 
that the required publications and information are readily 
available in both official languages. 


By June 1980 unilingual National Council materials will be 
the exception and this position is to be attained by the 
gradual replacement of present materials, 


By June 1980 all public information will be released in both 
languages and technical publications will be available in 
both languages on order. 


Associations and/or YMCA service-delivery-networks 
operating National projects or training events must, by 
June 1980, have the capacity to serve constituents in 
both official languages. (See National Linguistics 
Centre). 


Language principles for National projects will include: 
a) Written materials available in both languages. 


b) Questionnaires, reports will be produced in 
both languages. 


c) Training events, trips, etc., will have bilingual 
capacity in the leadership team where participants 
from both language groups are involved. 


d) Planning and Management groups will have adequate 
representation from Associations operating in 
communities with significant involvement with official 
linguistic materials. 


e) The National Council will provide all possible support 
to Associations with significant official language 
minority communities to ensure that the committees, 
the Board and the Council increasingly reflect the 
linguistic duality of the YMCA federation. 


Materials for such bodies will be presented in both 


languages no later than June 1980. 


When appropriate, translation facilities will be made 
available to the above bodies. 


f) The National Council, in order to ensure that its members 
are acquainted with and sensitive to the linguistic and 
cultural realities within both the YMCA federation and 
Canada, will conduct an annual orientation program. 

This program will involve volunteer leaders at the National 
level and senior members of the staffs of the Associations. 


D, NATIONAL YMCA LINGUISTICS CENTRE 


The National Council will establish a National YMCA 
Linguistics Centre through a contractual arrangement 
with an Association, 


The four major functions of the Centre will be: 
i) language training for staff members; 
ii) translation of materials; 


iii) conducting orientation activities for National 
Council leaders; 


iv) support and encouragement to Associations to 
provide services in both languages, where appropriate. 


The Linguistics Centre will also develop a standard lexicon 
for technical YMCA terms to promote consistency and 
uniformity in the use of nomenclature throughout the YMCA 
federation. 


A National Co-ordinator will be named to the Centre 
to implement this Policy and to provide assistance to 
Associations in their planning to better serve their total 
communities. 


