YMCA HUB CITIES 
1972 -1980 


SOLON COUSINS 


DUNBAR REED 


YMCA HUB CITIES 
Contents 
I. Introduction 
A. Urban-Metropolitan Concerns 
- Map Display, Urban-Metropolitan YMCA‘s 
- Map Display, Urban Sprawl and Prime Markets 
B. Metropolitan YMCA Functional Analysis 
C. YMCA Cluster Definitions 
D. The Hub-City Concept 
- Map Display, Metro Services-Community Development 
II. YMCA Hub-City Development 1972-1980 
A. Current Projects 
- Map Display, Hub Cities 1972, 1973, 1975, 1980 
B. Development Schedule 
C. Projected Budget 
D. Criteria for Development 
III. Addenda 
A. City Commitment to Hub-City Development 
- Survey Illustration - Data Bank 
B. National YMCA Support 
C. Cluster Study 
D. Research Findings 1971 
E. Proposal Examples 


F. Profile of Hub-City and Project Activity 


13-14 


19-22 


25-28 
29-38 
39-81 


82-124 


INTRODUCTION 


Beginning with this era of major focus on Organizational Development, learnings from 
empirical data (factors identified by Solon Cousins in his recent paper presented to 
the Urban Metropolitan Conference at Atlanta, Ga.) established the fact that organi- 
zational change must be considered in the context of broad social change. YMCAs find 
themselves in a continuous process of adaptation, adjustment and reorganization as 
they seek to meet new conditions in the locations where they are serving. The immi- 
nent change is valued differently among different groups of YMCA leaders. Some value 
it highly; others view it with suspicion and even fear. The majority of studies and 
surveys on the effect of change, indicate a tendency in American life to accept change, 
uncritically. They believe in progress; and they measure achievement by the work 
people do. Growth, in an industry or business, or in personal acquisitions, becomes 
a value symbol. Such growth brings increased status and prestige and inevitably 
involves change. 


Yet change does not necessarily solve problems. It may result only in exchanging one 
set of problems for another. Change may result in improving conditions; but it also 
can result in deterioration. Why changes are made, how they are made, is as important 
as whether changes are made. 


In our quest for organizational viability, relevance and excellence, we in the YMCA 
are faced with at least three types of strategies in planning change. They are: 
(1) Empirical - rational; (2) Normative - re-educative; (3) Application of power in 
some form, political or otherwise. 


It would appear to me that the Hub-City concept must be approached openly and honestly 
with clear-cut understanding which can be brought about by selection of basic guide- 
lines which call for firm contracts with carefully and strategically selected Cities 
based on the following: (a) National YMCA Board priorities; (b) Role of Generai 
Agency (Regions and Urban Group) ; (c) Funding; (d) Number and location of the Hub 
Cities (present and future). 


Recognizing that we are one National General Agency (Regions and Urban Group Depart- 
ment, alike) with one National Board, one National budget, and one National purpose, 
we must confront the present dichotomy that exists by removing fears, suspicions and 
mistrust. The initial blocks that have been identified that need confronting are: 
(1) The resisting of Regional leadership; (2) The generating of fear by the Urban 
Group leadership. 


I. Behaviors 
Urban Group Leadership - Generating fears among some general agency people by what 
appear to be demands, extreme reordering of finances, threats of withholding, and/ 


or operating outside of the organization. 


Region Leadership - Resisting an idea whose time has come out of legitimate con- 
cerns for being able to service the whole Movement. 


Headquarters Leadership - Reacting to apparent erosion of funds to continue the 
developmental thrust they have been charged to carry out. 


II. Assumptions 
- Urban Centers have the power to carry out withholding of funds. 


- Unilateral power moves will start chain reactions which could debilitate the 
Movement. 


~ F = 


- Interfaces between the Urban Group, National Executive and Region Executives 
to develop mutually agreed guidelines for formation of Hubs will eliminate 
either blocking or unrealistic demands for Hub formations. 


- Some monitoring will need to be exercised by the General Agency to assure an 
adequate delivery system. 


- Equity of funding will assure that growth of one type of service doesn't 
debilitate the other. 


- Region funds are a major resource in negotiating Hub-City contracts. 


- Hubs need to develop budgets with some sources of funding from participating 
Associations where projects involve costs over their formula allocation (for 
special financial development, E.D.P., training, etc.). 


Dunbar Reed 


The development of hub-city capability to serve branches and surrounding independent 
YMCA's is clearly a priority of the National YMCA organization. This developmental 
program has been an objective of the Urban Group YMCA's for two and one-half years. 
Early experimental models have evolved into a half dozen projects in 1972 and a fore- 
cast of many more projects by 1975. The contents of this document reflect our early 
experience, the collaborative nature of the Hub-City model (national and local), and 
the dream of better service to metropolitan branches as well as independent YMCA's 
from a hub-city base throughout the United States and Canada. The Hub-City is but 
one model of service, but clearly a vital one for the city Associations that have 
invested money, energy, and time, over a long period - in the interest of effective 
YMCA service to members and constituents. The National YMCA organization has joined 
in this developmental thrust through cash and staff assignment to cluster projects. 
The urban-metropolitan YMCA's will continue to seek help and support through the 
years ahead as we test the Hub-City model of services. 


Solon Cousins 


URBAN-METROPOLITAN CONCERNS 


The YMCA was born in the city. In the intervening 130 years, the Association's con- 
tinuing developmental impulse has been urban - and the metropolitan character of 
major YMCA's a result of urban growth. The economic, spiritual, political and social 
dilemmas that stimulated George Williams in nineteenth century London persist - and 
present an infinitely more complex problem to urban YMCA planning as we develop our 


work in the 1970's - toward a more effective program in 1980. The issues of the 
city - ert j j j j iti 

tures, corporate apath on's 
issues and, thereto n 


cities. 


nel 


THE URBAN-METROPOLITAN YMCA DIMENSION 


issues will~determine not we are a credi i ing a new 
country, or only a passi od, € ional-recreational a ling 


We would make the assumption that the effectiveness of the YMCA Movement is tied to 
the good health and development of 75 urban-metropolitan Associations (Illus. p. 4). 
These Associations produce over one-half the income of all YMCA's - with program 
participation commensurate with this figure and beyond, when you consider involve- 
ment on a subsidized basis. These YMCA's produce over 50% of our World Service 
support, embrace 43% of the total membership, and employ nearly 50% of the employed 
officers. They represent 40% of the capital investment of all YMCA's - and, not 
incidentally, provide nearly 40% of the fair share support for our National and 
International structure. This significant data shoul not minimize the effective 
work and-total Size Of the other 825 corporate YMCA's in the United States and 
Canada. These independent Associations are conducting relevant, growing programs 

in proliferating facilities. In fact, the health prognosis for these YMCA's is 
considerably better than that of their large city brethren, However, we must recog- 
nize and accept the dimensions of the urban YMCA's - the concentration of the prob- 
lems and potential and apply our resources within cities, and as a national organiza- 
tion to the insurance of their survival and good health. 


URBAN INTERESTS 


Major cities and the YMCA's in them are concerned not only with survival, but with 
dealing with new thought in the areas of changing human values; - the complexities 
of the inner city, including the lingering racism which affects us; - metropolitan 
planning and its implications for suburban involvement in city problem solving; - 
and in the changing economic habits of our urban citizenry. We know, for example, 
that the concentrations of population in the year 2000 (Illus. p. 5) will create 
25 prime markets (Illus. p. 5). Our urban-metropolitan YMCA's are located in each 
of these and are affected by this growing urban pressure. In turn, we hope to 
affect our involvement through sensitive and aggressive programs which are backed 
up by the best technology we can bring to bear as an operating organization. 


YMCA REGIONS AND OFFICES 


URBAN - METROPOLITAN YMCAS 
100 RADIUS AREA - URBAN METROPOLITAN YMCAS 


cm ecammaa . aed 
‘NORTH DAKOTA Y *#tsty 
(MINNESOTA 
\ 


\, 


NEV t. . ! 
: “—T ; I 
; i | 
PACIFIC ; SOLORA, — 
2) \ j rrr 
a, |! i 


—— _ 
Si 


} —_* 
a) ARKANSAS, PrENNESSEE 


! 
I 
~“ 


Loui J, 


\ 


a 


IAL. 
fe 
4-7 c [AROLINA 
“— 


oa 


1 cproMDAe 


LORID 


ORGANIZING FOR URBAN ACTION 


are those -- that can successfully move people.to action; they have low overhead; 
they are adaptable and can change their names,.symbols, and structures easily;they 
are consumer-oriented rather than organizationally occupied, They are mobile and 
“€an take risks in the economic, social, political, and spiritual arena. 


Organizations that are becoming potential 1980..transformation.agents in..communities 


Assuming that urban-metropolitan YMCA's have or will gain these capabilities, here 
is an urban-metropolitan YMCA framework that might stimulate the necessary means to 
make an impact in 1980 - and serve as a base for Hub-City collaboration. 


Metropolitan Service Technology Supporting Local Community Development (Illus. p. 19) 


In order to increase the effectiveness of urban-metropolitan Associations, certain 
specialized functions must be performed by the metropolitan organization in support 
of branch and/or other units. If we are to assume that our primary impact is_at 
the_point of program participation in local neighborhoods, and—we.further assyme 
that_the metropolitan organization is a supportive one rather.than an operating unit, 
then the following services, enriched by the technology of the 70's, and the involve- 
ment of community and neighborhood leaders, may be appropriate: 


Metropolitan Services 
1. Strategic Planning 


- Over-all direction setting by the Metropolitan Board on a community-wide, inter- 
agency basis, encouraging joint program and facility operations. 


- A financial development program for current, capital, long-range and investment 
management (with a special strategy for planning and financing inner-city 
program). 


- A community institution change plan, including a city-wide White strategy to 
reduce racism and alienation. 


- An established plan of objective setting and production appraisal. 


- Collaborative arrangements with other YMCA's for hub-city development (an 
elaboration of this concept follows). 


- A "pipe line" to corporate and academic technical aid for Organization 
Development purposes. 


A specific strategy to affect municipal planning. 
- An operations renewal plan, using “Standards of Excellence" as a guide. 
2. Program and Fiscal Systems 


- An integrated budgeting, accounting and reporting system, with computer utili- 
zation for program and financial data processing. (Note: several Urban Group 
Associations are contemplating a joint experiment utilizing a computer base 
unit and remote terminals to provide basic fiscal and membership functions for 
each other and branches.) 


3. Community Education and Influence 


- A plan to educate the total community about the breadth and diversity of 
programs. 


- A process to develop advocacy positions (youth and adult) for community 
improvement in education, jobs, housing and recreation. 


4. Program Research, Development and Marketing 


- A specific commitment of resources to qualitative analysis and validation of 
programs - in collaboration with other organizations (such as the United Way). 


- A marketing strategy to expose our capabilities to the federal government, the 
United Way, special donors and foundations in specific program areas (health 
and physical education, counseling, group development, and job training). 
(Note: Our YMCA problem is as much or more a sales problem as it is a 
management one.) 


5. Management Development and Training 


- A planned developmental experience sequence for supervisory and program 
operators - in an urban perspective - and on the assumption of high mobility 
in and out of the urban Association. 


6. Special Services 


- An established administrative plan to provide and monitor insurance, legal, 
and real estate needs. 


Within this metropolitan framework of services are the supports necessary to encour- 
age and sustain local community development, the focal point of all our program 
energies. 


Branches of metropolitan and/or other YMCA units might perform within the following 
framework of functions: 


Local Community Development 


1. Program Production in Selected Markets 


- Program services in a development spectrum from early childhood to senior 
maturity, with specific activities, as appropriate to each community, branch, 
or neighborhood: 


Physical Education Education and Counseling Job Training 
Recreation Interfaith Understanding Community Organization 


2. Involvement in Community Improvement 


- Visible advocacy positions affecting educational, economic, political, and 
religious institutions in the branch neighborhood (supported by the over-all 
metropolitan change strategy). 


3. Leadership Training 


- Visible and explicit youth and adult programs of leadership development for 
community and group organization. 


This concept of metropolitan technology supporting local community development (a low 
overhead assumption) may serve as a resource to planning, and may be one alternative 
as urban-metropolitan Associations strive to be more sensitive to the environment 

and more operationally sound in their approach to the total metropolitan area. 


The Hub-City model of collaboration and service delivery mentioned above has parti- 
cular significance on the strategic planning agenda of urban Associations. 


THE HUB-CITIES MODEL (Illus. p. 10) 


The clustering of YMCA's, in varying forms, has been evident for many years, and the 
successful banding together of Associations for specific purposes has given valuable 
experience from which to draw for the future. There are several kinds of clusters: 


1. YMCA's in geographic proximity - of varying size and, under our present 
National organization, served by a consultant (15 to 20 YMCA's). 


2. YMCA's of like interests not necessarily in geographic proximity. (The 
Urban Group is an example.) 


3. A hub-city with surrounding independent YMCA's in a single metropolitan 
area. (St. Louis Metropolitan is an example.) 


4. A hub group of two or more metropolitan Associations joining resources to 
serve each other and surrounding units. (The Southwest Region Metro 6 
Cluster and the Mid-America Viking Cluster (Minneapolis-St. Paul) are 
examples.) 


Since 1968, there have been cluster arrangements designed for experimentation, with 
various forms of collaboration as well as delivery of general agencies services. 

The Massachusetts Bay, New York Tri-State and the Chicagoland projects were partially 
funded by the National organization, managed primarily by the metropolitan Associ- 
ations, and evaluated by independent research in early 1971. Additional pioneer work 
was recorded during this period by the St. Louis Association serving its own branches 
and surrounding YMCA's in Missouri and Illinois. In 1972, through the stimulus of 
the Urban Group and under the auspices of the various Regional Boards, eleven special 
cluster projects are under way on an experimental basis toward the goal of evaluating 
a variety of collaborative efforts. $187,000 has been allocated by the Regional 
Boards for the support of these cluster experiments. The urban-metropolitan Associ- 
ations involved are giving leadership, energy and money to these projects. 


The Urban Group, at its November, 1970, and March, 1971, planning sessions gave com- 
mitment to the idea of developing major Associations as Hub-City cluster models. The 
purpose was to develop a stronger metropolitan organization and service to branches, 
and also a variety of special services to surrounding independent YMCA's, if desired 
by them. The Massachusetts Bay, Viking, St. Louis Metropolitan, and the Chicagoland 
clusters are currently operating on this basis. It is quite clear that not all inde- 
pendent YMCA's in metropolitan areas are desirous or even interested in a Hub-City 
relationship with the urban-metropolitan Association. The Hub-City model assumption 
is that only those independent YMCA's which want to join in the collaboration should 
do so, and that no attempt be made to ''sell'' them on being a part of this arrangement. 


o Gs 


It is our conviction that urban metropolitan YMCA's must strengthen their management 
services' back-up to local units in order to insure future effectiveness. The volume 
of added independent YMCA units and the potential of the sale of special services to 
these units (and branches) will both improve services to units and ultimately reduce 
the cost of operation. The over-all advantages of having all YMCA's in a metropol- 
itan area work together - while maintaining their corporate identity and autonomy - 
is obvious, when one thinks of the common constituency, fund-raising sources, pro- 
motional media, and overlapping program service areas. The evidence is clear and 
growing that in Hub-Cities clusters such as St. Louis and Chicagoland, branches and 
independent YMCA's are receiving the specialized kinds of technical services needed 
for effective management. The added dimensions of cohesion and collaboration are 
increasing in importance. 


By 1976, there should be a commitment to Hub-City model development, with specific 
objectives set forth on a systematic basis, including dates for accomplishment. 
20-25 urban-metropolitan YMCA‘'s should make this commitment, and between 1976 and 
1980, there will be a solid experience with this concept (and some modified version 
that will compel long-range adoption by all city YMCA's). Between 1972 and 1976, in 
collaboration with our regional field structure, these urban YMCA's hope to encour- 
age National study and support. 


As each hub city seeks to strengthen its own capability by developing goals and tar- 
gets for the strengthening of the service to branches, it is also important that the 
independent YMCA units involved in a Hub-City program develop their own sub-system 
of objectives relative to the cluster. The development of the total metropolitan 
Hub-City model should be scheduled on an annual basis. 


Services 


There are necessary risks to be taken by urban YMCA's as they prepare to offer more 
sophisticated services to branches and other YMCA's. Staff must be employed or re- 
deployed in metropolitan offices to support “hard’' services such as - fiscal systems 
implementation, computer programming, staff training, preventive maintenance diagnosis 
and service. The coordination of cluster-wide public relations and financial develop- 
ment programs requires additional investment of time and money. All of the 1972 
project cities have assigned or employed staff for purposes of Hub-City capability 
development. Most new assignments have been in technical areas. However, some 
metropolitan staff have been working on general consulting and diagnostic tasks 

with branches and others. The added volume of independent YMCA's reduces the risks 
of adding under-financed metropolitan resource staff, particularly when “hard" 
services are being purchased. 


THE URBAN METROPOLITAN YMCA COMMUNITY 


METRO BRANCH 
INDEPENDENT YMCA 


= OT = 


eee 


METROPOLITAN SERVICES TECHNOLOGY 


A M 
|. STRATEGIC PLANNING LOCAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 
|. PROGRAM PRODUCTION IN 


Il. PROGRAM AND FISCAL SYSTEMS 
SELECTED MARKETS 


Il. COMMUNITY EDUCATION AND INFLUENCE 
Il, INVOLVEMENT IN COMMUNITY 


IV. PROGRAM RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, IMPROVEMENT 


AND MARKETING 
Ill. LEADERSHIP TRAINING 


V. MANAGEMENT TRAINING 


VI. SPECIAL SERVICES 


me A 


YMCA HUB-CITY DEVELOPMENT 


1972 - 1980 


The Boston, Chicago, New York, and St. Louis Associations provided the original 
experimentation in clustering YMCA's around a metropolitan center. This work, 
done in 1969 and 1970, was researched and encouraged by the National Board (see 
Addenda - this document). Projections of Hub-City development, based on the 
urban nature of the YMCA future, were made at the National Council meeting in 
May, 1971 and more specifically - toward 1980, at the Key Staff meeting of the 
Urban Group in September, 1971. The Region Boards voted support for most of 
the 1972 projects (p. 12) and the National Executive Director and Board Chairman 
expressed support for the Hub-City developmental concept in March of 1972. The 
Urban Metropolitan Conference, in April, 1972, exposed a ten-year program of 
gradual Hub-City development (illustrated by maps on p. 13 and p. 14). (Note: 
Circled Hubs represent data-processing capability.) 


The 1973 segment of Hub-City development is proceeding, with partial financial 
support being sought through Regional Boards. 


The illustrations on pages 15 and 16 represent a suggested schedule of development 
in the years ahead - and a combined minimum dollar investment necessary by local 
and National Boards to implement the plan. 


Special Notes: 


P. 15: The locations which are indicated by ‘Hub*-Mis" on page 15 represent 
possible management information centers, strategically located throughout 
the country. The Mis centers imply the utilization of electronic data- 
processing equipment at these locations. 


P. 16: Dollar amounts represent cash and "in kind'' (staff and materials) investment. 
Other assumptions are: 


(1) City Associations will provide approximately 60% of the developmental 
cost, and the National organization about 40% - on an ideal basis. 


(2) Hub-City financial commitments will be implemented regardless of 
the amount of National organization dollar support. 


(3) One professional person with clerical back-up equals $35,000. Addi- 
tional amounts in the budget forecast include approximate time 
allocations against existing staff salaries (based on preliminary 
cost analyses made in Chicago, Boston, and St. Louis). 


The original research on the Mass. Bay, Tri-State, and Chicagoland Projects surfaced 
some suggested criteria for the establishment of Hub cities. These appear in the 
Addenda. In addition, the editors of this paper suggest supplemental criteria for 
urban YMCA's (p. 17) as they develop commitment to the Hub-City model for survival 
and service. 


City 
Boston 
Chicago 
Cleveland 
Dallas 
Detroit 

Los Angeles 
Louisville 
Milwaukee 
Minneapolis 
New York 


St. Louis 


San Francisco 


*Contract for service to independent YMCA's 


**For cluster programs 


ae 


1972 


CURRENT PROJECTS 


Cluster 

Mass. Bay 
Chicagoland 
Northeastern Ohio 
Metro Six 
Southeast Michigan 
Los Angeles County 
Kentuckiana 
Wisconsin Group 
Viking 

Tri-State 

St. Louis Metro 


Bay Area 


Cash Support 


(National) 


$ 35,000" 


56,000" 
** 
24 ,000 


* 
15,000 


15,000*" 
* 

29,900 

31,000" 


**k 
20 ,000 


$225,900 


Regional 
Staff 
Assignment 

1 


1 


= 13 + 


URBAN METROPOLITAN YMCAs 
1972 
HUB CITY AND PARTIAL SERVICE CLUSTER @ Provects 


is dele tie ttt tel a | 
j NORTH DaKorA b Taba 


~~ 
(MINNESOTA "Ne" 
\ 


\ —, MICHIGAN, 


. wisct 


ae 
«SOUTH DAKOTA NSIN 'L 


I 
i 
basemen ) 


anansis 
ati | 
j F rm i 
et tees pos . 
\ MassssPh eetani6 


CLEARTYPE 
STATE OUTLINE 
UNITED STATES 


Scale of Miles 
100 


MAP NO. 119 
Correct 
AMERICAN MAP NC. 


Soe 
Bas 


URBAN METROPOLITAN YMCAs 
1973 
HUB CITY AND PARTIAL SERVICE CLUSTER PROJECTS 


tm, MICHIG 
ONSIN 


AC 


\. 
ae, 
=e, mF TKROLINA 
mq OKLAHOMA Leer = Acifessee i 
? L KANSAS. Ly Teese 


pop 


¢ 


<oRibaee 


CLEARTYPE 


‘us rat or 


URBAN METROPOLITAN YMCAs 
1980 


22 HUB CITY Dano 13 PARTIAL SERVICE & CLUSTERS 


~ 


** mete me ss oe ew gee sD 
NORTH DAKOTA T *#ueay, 
! [MINNESOTA “S\e* 


» SOUTH DAKOTA 


4 


% MISSOURI 


AN 


ea acaes 
| 
ee 
*, i — i . 
smd! ms annem 4 | Ys i 
AuississiPPh 


, 


CLEARTYPE 
STATE OUTLINE 
UNITED STATES 
samen 
“ 


MAP NO. 119 


Corre 
[AMERICAN MAP COMPANY, INC. 


HAWAII 


Se 
> 


URBAN METROPOLITAN YMCAs 
1975 
HUB city WH ann PARTIAL SERVICE CLUSTER @ PROJECTS 


<8 se oe mo 6 mo 9 pee 
+ NORTH DAKOTA Ge ae hae, 
MINNESOTA Od 


_— 
L = Aaatessee 
TARKANSAS Oj TENNE 


\ 
if 


\ AussissiPr) eacamoat 


! 
| 
H ka niin, 


Sem 
( 
CLEARTYPE 
STATE OUTLINE 
UNITED STATES 


Scale of Mites 


« 1§ « 
URBAN-METROPOLITAN CLUSTER PROJECT DEVELOPMENT 1970-1980 


47 Urban Metro- 1977 
politan YMCA's 1970 8=1971 1972 1973 1974 1975 1976 -79 1980 
Atlanta + 1 Pro Hub Hub* D Hub* 
Birmingham Par Par D Par 
Boston Pro Par Hub Hub* Hub* Hub* ~ Hub* D Hub* 
Charlotte Par Par D Par 
Chicago Pro Hub Hub* Hub* Hub* Hub*  Hub* D Hub*-Mis 
Cincinnati Pro Par Hub D Hub 
Cleveland Pro Pro Par Par Par Hub D Hub 
Dallas + 5 Hub Hub Hub Hub* — Hub* D Hub* -Mis 
Dayton Pro Pro Pro Par D Par 
Denver Par Par Hub Hub D Hub 
Detroit Hub Hub Hub Hub* D Hub* 
Houston Pro Par Hub D Hub 
Indianapolis Pro Pro Par Hub D Hub 
Kansas City Pro Par Hub D Hub 
Los Angeles + 1 Pro Par Par Par Hub*  Hub* D Hub*-i lis 
Louisville Pro Pro Pro Par Par D Par 
Miami Pro Par Par D Par 
Milwaukee Pro Pro Par Par Par Par D Par 
Minneapolis + 1 Hub Hub Hub* Hub*  Hub* D Hub* 
Montreal Pro-,: Par Hub Hub D Hub 
New Orleans Par Par dD Par 
New York + l Pro Pro Pro Par Hub Hub* Hub* D Hub*-Mis 
Oklahoma City Pro Par Par D Par 
Omaha Pro Par D Par 
Orlando Pro Pro Par Hub D Hub 
Philadelphia Pro Pro Par Par D Par 
Phoenix Par Par D Par 
Portland Par Par D Par 
Pittsburgh Pro Par Par D Par 
Rochester + 2 Pro Pro Hub Hub Hub Hub D Hub 
St. Louis Pro Hub ~=Hub Hub Hub*  Hub*  Hub* D Hub* 
San Francisco + l Pro Pro Par Hub Hub Hub D Hub 
Seattle Pro Par Hub Hub* D Hub* 
Toledo Pro Par D Par 
Toronto + 1 Pro Pro Par Hub Hub Hub D Hub 
Washington, D.C. Pro Par Hub Hub* D Hub*-Mis 
Code: Pro - Special Collaboration project 1980 

Par - Partial services delivery 

Hub - All services delivery 14 Partial Services Centers 

Hub* - Data Processing Capability 22 Hub cities 

D - Developmental work 11 Hub cities - Data Process. Cap. 


Hub*-Mis - All services - Mis center S Hub*-Mis Centers 


ao Be x 


URBAN-METROPOLITAN CLUSTER PROJECT DEVELOPMENT 1970-1980 


MINIMUM BUDGETS (IN 1,000'S) COMBINING LOCAL INVESTMENT AND NATIONAL SUPPORT 


47 Urban Metro- 


politan YMCA's _ 1970 1971 1972 1973 1974 
Atlanta + 1 20 
Birminghan 10 
Boston 20 25 45 75 90 
Charlotte 

Chicago 30 60 100 200 250 
Cincinnati 20 
Cleveland 10 10 20 
Dallas + 5 25 50 60 70 
Dayton 5 10 
Denver 10 20 
Detroit 10 20 60 
Houston 20 
Indianapolis is 40 
Kansas City 20 
Los Angeles + 1 5 30 40 70 
Louisville 10 20 40 50 
Miami 20 
Milwaukee 10 15 20 40 
Minneapolis + 1 40 70 7s 
Montreal 10 19 20 
New Orleans 

New York + 1 15 20 60 100 150 
Oklahoma City 20 
Omaha 

Orlando 10 
Philadelphia 20 
Phoenix 

Pittsburgh 20 
Portland 

Rochester + 2 20 40 60 
St. Louis 10 LS 40 50 70 
San Francisco + 1 15 40 50 80 
Seattle 15 25 
Toledo 20 
Toronto + 1 15 25 50 
Washington, D.C. __ a a _20 50 
TOTALS 75 185 505 875 1,500 


\ 


Y (o~40 
RUG ~ VATIONS | 


a 29 a 


The Hub-City developmental experiences of 1970-72 compel the following criteria for 
continued development during the period 1973-1980: 


1s 


There must be a Metropolitan Board commitment to the Hub-City model, 
including a commitment of money and staff to implement the plan by 
1976. 


Independent YMCA's surrounding the hub city must make a commitment, on a 
voluntary basis, to participate over a three-year minimum period. 


The hub-city administration must commit itself to an all-services delivery 
to branches and independent units, including general consulting services 
as well as hard services. 


An objective and target schedule for a three-year period must be adopted by 
the hub city and surrounding units, with an annual review as a basis for 
participation. 


The hub-city Board/Staff must involve National Board/Staff in hub-city 
planning, particularly in regard to the degree of involvement of National 
Staff in implementing the hub-city's program of service. 


« {8 = 


III. ADDENDA 


A. 


F, 


City Commitment to Hub-City Development 
- Survey Illustration - Data Bank 
National YMCA Support 
Cluster Study 
Research Findings 1971 
Proposal Examples 
- Mass. Bay 
- Chicagoland 
- Metro Six 
- Kentuckiana 
- Viking 
- Tri-State 
- Pacific Region 
Profile of Hub-City and Project Activity 
- Mass. Bay 
- Chicagoland 
- Northeastern Ohio 
- Metro Six 
- Kentuckiana 
- Wisconsin Group 
- St. Louis Metro 
- Bay Area 


- Lake Ontario 


Page 
19-22 
23 
24 
25-28 
29-38 
39-81 
39-46 
47-54 
55-56 
57-58 
59-62 
63-68 
69-81 
82-124 
82-86 
87-98 
99-102 
103-105 
106-109 
110-113 
114-118 
119-122 


123-124 


— 
RATIONALE FOR HUB-CITIES DEVELOPMENT 


Urban Group Memo of 3/31/71 


Regarding Delivery of General Agency Services Through Metropolitan YMCA's 


BACKGROUND 


A. Included in the eight operational objectives of the Urban Group, established in 
November and reaffirmed in March, were the following two objectives related 
directly to clustering of YMCA's for service: 


I. Develop and achieve metropolitan cluster capability to deliver General Agency 
services, reimbursed by percentage support. 


A. Review and evaluate the experimental clusters (New York, Boston, Chicago) 
and develop, in each Urban Group city, a package (s) of services to 
cluster Associations - testing our ability to produce on a cluster basis. 


I. Target Projects - 1971 


A. 


Get complete research data on the three experimental clusters partially 
funded by the National Board (Boston, New York, Chicago). In addition, 
with the aid of local staffs involved, develop reports on independent 


cluster experiments in St. Louis, Los Angeles, and the Southwest Region. 


(Accountability: S.C. Responsibility: Hardy, St. Louis, Los Angeles, 
Dallas. Target Deadline: A report to Urban Group Executives (mail 
4/30) and the National Council, May 20, 1971.) 


Achieve agreements with individual Urban Group cities on packages of 
services to be presented for discussion and action to independent 
cluster YMCA's. (The ‘package’! should include all General Agency 
services -- or, it might be built on specialized services, such as 
payroll, accounting, membership, maintenance, and training.) 


(Accountability: S.C. Responsibility: Urban Executives. Target 
Deadline: Report plan to National Council 5/20/71. Present packages 
to clusters by 9/1/71, and report progress to Urban Group key staff 
meeting 10/71. Implementation of tests 1/1/72.) 


II. Develop flexibility in the use of our National YMCA resources to facilitate 
operational clusters and sub-clusters - Metropolitan and Regional - utilizing 
Regional Consultants as working participants. 


II. Target Projects - 1971 


A. 


This target to be achieved through Target I. 


(Accountability: S.C. Responsibility: Cluster cities and assigned 
Regional staff.) 


S.C. to participate as a member of a four-man team to establish a new 
model of General Agency services by request of Bob Harlan. Target 
Deadline: 6/1/71. Stan Enlund and S.C. to participate in National 
Organization Consultation on General Agency Objectives - May 5 and 6. 


~ 20 - 


Root, Howes, Urquhart, Baker, Kessler, Bannerman, and S.C. to serve 
on sub-group of National Board Percentage Finance Committee. 


(Accountability: S.C. Responsibility: S.C., Stan Enlund, and 
Urban Group Executives.) 


Assumptions underlying these two objectives are as follows: 


1. Clusters of YMCA's will represent key management centers of the future 
National organization. 


2. Urban Group cities, in need of financial relief and technical help, must 
have a volume of activity and business to support more sophisticated 
technical services emanating from Metropolitan offices. 


3. More highly developed technical back-up and general consulting - will enable 
both Metropolitan branches and surrounding independent YMCA's to provide 
their constituents better program activity. 


4. Metropolitan staff resources represent a better base of technical service 
to cluster YMCA's than do Regional staffs. 


5S. There is sufficient flexibility in the application of percentage financed 
dollars to allow for the purchase of services from Metropolitan YMCA's for 
independent surrounding units. 


6. An ultimate objective of the clustering concept is the consolidation of YMCA's. 


7. Extension work (the creation of new operating units) is being referred to 
Metropolitan YMCA's when this need arises in an urban or suburban area. 


8. The Hub-Cities Experimental Projects, conducted 1968-1970, support the con- 
tinuation and expansion of the concept of cluster management and service. 


9. Urban Metropolitan YMCA's will be strengthened and can serve their own 
branches for less dollar cost. 


10. Participation in the hub-city cluster by independent Associations is on a 
strictly voluntary basis. 


During March, the new National YMCA Management has taken certain positions suppor- 
tive of the development of cluster service. A documentation of this stance 

appears in Exhibit A attached, with special note of those objectives and directions 
affecting urban clusters. 


A PROGRAM FOR THE DELIVERY OF SERVICES 


A. 


AS AN URBAN GROUP, WE ARE PROPOSING THAT, IN UP TO TEN URBAN METROPOLITAN LOCA- 
TIONS, WE BE PREPARED TO DELIVER ALL OR PART OF THE GENERAL AGENCY SERVICES TO 
NEIGHBORING YMCA'S IN THESE GEOGRAPHIC CLUSTERS, WITH IMPLEMENTATION TO BEGIN 
1/1/72. (THIS IS IN KEEPING WITH OUR TARGETS SUPPORTING THE URBAN GROUP OBJEC- 
TIVES.) 


THERE ARE AT LEAST THREE ALTERNATE MODELS FOR THE DELIVERY OF SERVICE WHICH COULD 
BE REIMBURSED FROM PERCENTAGE FINANCED DOLLARS: 


OE a 


1. Current services provided by Regional Associates. This involves general 
contact work, problem solving, planning, and the brokerage of special ser- 


vices. (The current General Agency plan calls for one Regional Associate 
per fifteen Associations - at an average cost of $35,000 per position, 
including clerical back-up and contingent expenses.) 


2. A complete Metropolitan package: 


(a) Fiscal Management - accounting, including payroll, preventive main- 
tenance, and the eventual installation of operational standards. 


(b) Manpower Development - recruitment, off-the-job training, the filling 
Of vacancies, salary and benefits administration (other than the 
designation of specific wages and salaries). 


(c) Financial Development - cluster-wide public relations and promotion, 
coordinated membership campaigns. 


(d) General Consultant - the general contact role with branches and neigh- 
boring YMCA's now carried out by Regional Consultant, including the 
extension of program services to new communities. 


3. Partial Services. The following specific activities can be offered on a 
sale-of-service basis: 


(a) Accounting (d) Payroll 
(b) Off-the-job training (e) P. R. materials 
(c) Preventive maintenance (f) Other 


ACTION NEEDED FROM URBAN GROUP CITIES INTERESTED IN TESTING AND/OR APPLYING THEIR 
CAPABILITIES TO ONE OR MORE OF THE ABOVE PROPOSED PROGRAMS: 


A. 


DATA COLLECTION 
Respond to the questions on the Information Bank green sheet. 
INVOLVEMENT 


Original tests in Urban Group cities indicate involvement at the outset of: Metro- 
politan staffs, Regional Executives and/or Consultant, Board Executive Committees, 
and Executive Directors of neighboring YMCA's. (SC available to serve as inter- 
preter of this program with Regional Consultant - in order to relieve an Urban 
Group city Executive of the advocacy position.) 


DEADLINES 
Review the data collection questions and return to SC by 4/23. SC will contact 


you about the possibility of scheduling meetings with representatives of surround- 
ing YMCA's, Regional Consultants, and your Metropolitan staff by 4/30. 


= 22 «< 


THE URBAN GROUP OF YMCA'S 
ROLE, FUNCTION, AND OBJECTIVES 


Through collaboration, The Urban Group seeks to improve: (1) the quality of life 
in the cities, through their program, and (2) the capabilities of these YMCA's in 
Manpower Development, Financial Development, and Fiscal Management. 


Urban Group Operational Objectives, 1970-73 


Approved in November, 1970, St. Louis 
Revised in March, 1971, Toronto 


I. Develop and achieve metropolitan cluster capability to deliver General Agency 
services, reimbursed by percentage support. 
A. Review and evaluate the experimental clusters (New York, Boston, Chicago) 
and develop, in each Urban Group city, a package (s) of services to cluster 
Associations - testing our ability to produce on a cluster basis. 


II. Accept and accomplish the following collaborative tasks: 

A. Influence the United Way of America (Canada) regarding criteria to be used 
to appraise YMCA performance (utilizing lay and staff resources to develop 
functional budgeting and basic accounting procedures). Develop national 
strategy for negotiating new agreements on fund raising, allocation, and 
program reporting. 

B. Collaborate and/or negotiate with other organizations in order to influence 
the Treasury Department toward a favorable view of YMCA tax exemption, with 
specific reference to the accounting and legal implications of our residence 
and food service operations (utilization of special National Board Tax Com- 
mittee). 

C. Develop ad hoc groups within the Urban Group on differentiated tasks (finan- 


cial development, marketing, manpower development, program, operations). 
D. Complete current tasks under way and form new groups for new objectives. 


III. Develop and implement a monitoring system for The Urban Group by engaging a 
group from the outside consultants now serving Urban Group cities to - 
A. Monitor the performance of our Urban Group's accepted goals, and 
B. Provide feedback on the individual cities' performance on their own 
respective organizational goals. 


IV. Develop flexibility in the use of our National YMCA resources to facilitate 
operational clusters and sub-clusters - metropolitan and regional - utilizing 
Regional Consultants as working participants -- and establish a methodology to 
communicate and elaborate to the National Board the total urban priority in the 
United States and Canada, utilizing the Urban Group Executive role in the head- 
quarters staff and Urban Group laymen on Regional and National Boards. 


V. Establish and engage a new volunteer force (one or more per Urban Group city) to - 
A. Communicate, stimulate, and reinforce our transformation role and our pro- 
gram impact in the cities, and 
B. Be a lay testing body for Urban Group goals and planning - and establish a 
power base in the National YMCA organization and the community. 


VI. Develop a program of international work that is integral to the management, 
financing, and program processes of Urban Group cities. 


VII. Enhance collaboration with BAN-WYS and other Black leadership in order to con- 
front institutional racism in urban YMCA's. 


VIII. Develop a mechanism for monitoring and reporting legislation affecting YMCA's 
and take action to implement the monitoring and reporting system. 


oe 


THE YMCA URBAN GROUP VY 
INFORMATION BANK 


HUB-CLUSTER DATA COLLECTION 


PROGRAM: 
Solon B. Cousins 3/31/71 
REQUESTED BY: DATE: 
ASSOCIATION DEADLINE FOR RETURN 4/23 


1. Identify, by name, by your own ground rules, the independent YMCA's in your 
cluster: 


2. How many operating units are in the cluster, including your branches? 


3. Are you now participating in any formal or informal cluster meetings, councils 


federation? If so, for how long? 


4. What is the general climate of acceptance or rejection of the core urban city 


by surrounding units? Positive Neutral Negative 


5. How much money in percentage dollars is being paid by the independent units in 


your identified cluster? 


rn 


6. What is the attitude of the Regional Consultant and/or Executive to delivery 
of National services by Hub City clusters? Positive Neutral 


Negative 


7. What is the attitude of your staff and Board regarding the providing of ser- 
vices beyond your own branches, given the necessary commitment of energy, man- 


power, and dollars? Positive Neutral Negative 


8. What would be the annual cost to you to provide services in (1) each of the 
three models, or (2) any combination noted on page 3 in terms of additional 


staff persons? 


er 


Equipment? 


nT 


« 2 & 


EXHIBIT A 
Urban Group Memo 
3/30/71 
GENERAL AGENCY SUPPORT OF THE DELIVERY OF 
SERVICES BY AND THROUGH URBAN-METROPOLITAN YMCA'S 


General Agency Management Stance - March, 1971 - Indicating Support of the Cluster- 
Service Concept, as Described in the Urban Group Operational Objectives - 3/7/71 


I. Six postures of Bob Harlan (Urban Group meeting 3/6/71 - Toronto): 


*1. Accelerating response time to critical issues 

2. Orienting leadership to the future, not the past 

*3. Targeting leadership and resources on critical local Association needs 
4. Becoming a force for inducing change 

*S5. Providing more flexibility in our resources 

*6. Increasing our capacity to take risks 


II. Proposed guidelines for a balanced General Agency budget in 1972: 
(Design Committee - Harlan, Reed, MacMorran, Hardy, Cousins - 3/16/71 - Atlanta) 


*1, Reduce 1971 budget by $600,000 - $400,000 to balance; $200,000 - pool 
2. For each staff reduced, 1/3 of saving will be placed in $ pool 
3. Facility leasing will assist in balancing budget (Headquarters and Region) 
*4. Buying services from local Associations will be included in Regional budgets 
5. Reduce Committee expenses throughout organization 
6. The principal of Regional endowments and reserves will be transferred to Natior. 
7. Reduce 17 staff positions: 
- 8 from Regions (create equity) 
- 9 Headquarters (2 already) 
8. Emphasis will be given to development of contributions income 


III. Assumptions (elements) of a long range model for the National organization 
(Design Team - Harlan, Reed, MacMorran, Hardy, Cousins - 3/16/71 - Atlanta) 


*1. Consolidations of YMCA's 
*2. $ pools for use by General Agency units to meet special crisis needs 
*3. Use of local resources in delivery and development 
*4, Flexibility in use of dollar and manpower resources 
5. Reduced (vastly) manpower 
6. Emphasis shift to competency (from seniority) 
7. Little or no operations by General Agency 
8. Greatly reduced committee structure (congruent with management structure) 
*9, Heavy emphasis on technical assistance 
10. Emphasis on manpower development for total organization 
*11. Decentralization implementation, centralized planning 
12. Limited functions necessary to implement changing priorities 
*13. Different definition of delivery of service 
*14. 99% of resources committed to line operations 
15. General Agency laymen should be linked to local line operations 
16. Model will seek external inputs 
*17. Future model will be focused on future culture in which local Associations 
will be operating (i.e., consolidation of agencies; YMCA's, etc.) 
*18. Functions of a long range model: 
a. Bring about consolidation of units; of agencies 
b. Enable YMCA's to address themselves directly to the societal needs 
around them 
c. Enable delivery of basic product line (support of) - P.E., Family 
Associations, Camping, Residence. 


*Direct effect on cluster concept. 


To: 


From: 


Re: 


= OS x 
NATIONAL BOARD 


CLUSTER STUDY 


Selected Executives Urban Metro YMCAs, Regional 
and Headquarters Executives, Regional Associates' 


Robert W. Harlan 


Cluster Study 1972 


Paul Permar has done a service by updating the National Board's movement in cluster- 


ing. 


Tr. 


IT. 


Supplementary resource to the study include: 


National Board of YMCAs - Associations Cooperating in Clusters, prepared by 
John Fisher. 


"Associations Cooperating in Clusters" by the Task Team VII - Cluster Function, 
Lloyd Arnold, Orville Emmons, Al Hallowell, Gordon Mack, William Markell, 
John Fisher. 


The 8 Regions replied. The results are as follows: 


I. 


Four Regions have contracted on technical resources with the following 
Associations: 


Association Regional Dollars Allocated Assoc. Region 

St. Louis $ 15,570.00 4 Mid-America 
St. Louis 15,570.00 10 Region I 
Minneapolis 29,900.00 6 Mid-America 
Los Angeles 15,000.00 18 Pacific 

San Francisco 20,000.00 7 Pacific 
Chicago 56,000.90 26 Region I 
Boston 35,000.00 13 Northeast 
Total 6 $187,040.00 90 4 


These contracts between Region and local Associations have been developed for the 
following purposes: 


1. 


as 


To provide services normally delivered by the Regional staff. (3) 


To provide services normally delivered by the Regional staff plus 
specialized consultant/training services. 


To develop a centralized purchasing service. 


To develop an accounting system for a Federation of 7 Associations in 
collaboration with a local United Way. 


In all cases, a Regional Associate is related to these clustering investments of 
dollars and time related to the specifics. An exception is in St. Louis where a 
local staff man coordinates or brokers the services with a Regional Executive iden- 
tified in a relating role to the Hub City. 


- 26 - 


All of the Regions which have contracts have a review process to determine continu- 
ation or renewal of the allocations to the Clusters. 


Clusters by Georgraphical Proximity 
Great Lakes S. East Region I N. East Mid-Amer. Pac. Mid-Atl. S. West Total 


a 


6 9 5 4 12 6 6 7 oS 


Associations by Geographical Proximity 
62 110 45 51 110 51 126 54 609 


II. On Clusters by Geographical Proximity, the 8 Regions have identified 55 of these 
organized clusters involving 550 Associations (separate corporations). During 
the past twelve months, these clusters by geographical proximity conducted 256 
recorded meetings. These clusters engaged in numerous projects and achievements. 


Membership Campaign Workshops 

Cooperative Employee Credit Union Development 

News Media Coordination 

Collaboration with United Way Presentations 
Cooperative Uniform Accounting Development 

Training on Management by Objectives 

Cooperation on Financial Development Implementation 
Workshops on Unemployment Compensation 

Presidents Workshop 

10. World Service Strategic Planning 

11. Workshop on Equal Employment 

12. Collaborative Camping Promotion 

13. Training Programs on Legal actions affecting YMCAs 
14. Training in the Processes of Corporate Finance Planning 
15. Coordinated Purchasing 

16. Development of Reciprocal Membership Service 

17. State Operating Group for Youth and Government 

18. Manpower/Financial Development 

19. Financial Development Workshop/Lay Staff Training 
20. AMA Supervisory Management Workshop 


WON ANHPWNeE 


Dollars from Regional dollar pools are allocated to these clusters in these Regions 
for membership workshops, parent education workshops, while in 2 Regions each cluster 
as identified here has a stated share of the dollar pool with the cluster leadership 
determining the expenditures. 


Regional Associates are assigned to each of these clusters identified by geographical 
proximity with the most prominent role of the Regional Associate identified in this 
rank order: 


G.L. S.E. J N.E. Mid-Amer. Pac. Mid-Atl. S.W. Rank 
1. Broker 2 iL 5 2 1 2 1 2 6.25 
2. Specialist 3 2 4 1 Z 1 - 1 5.25 
3. Convenor 1 4 6 4 4 - ~ 3 Seo 
4. Part Observer 5 3 5 5 3 - - 4 2.87 
5. Recorder 4 5 7 3 5 - - 5 2.37 
6. Org. Dev. - - 5 - - - - - wor 
7. Monitor - - 2 - - - - - sts 


« OF x 


This Study indicated movement from the general consultant/broker role with only 
3 of the 8 indicating the general consultant broker role as,the most prominent 
role. 


III. Thirty-three clusters, by common interest, have been established with Regional 
Associates specifically related to 26 of these clusters. Limited dollars from 
the Regional dollar pools have been allocated to this type of cluster with ex- 
penses for travel the only identified purpose for allocation of funds, with the 
exception of the Pacific Region, where $35,000 has been allocated for a cluster 
of YMCAs focusing on central purchasing and another cluster committed to an 
accounting system compatible with the United Way, and Southeast Region, where 
$10,000 has been allocated. 


There are 287 Associations who are members of the 33 established clusters by 
common interest. 


Clusters by Common Interest 
Great Lakes S.E. Region I N.E. Mid-Amer. Pac, Mid-Atl. S.West Total 
0 2 0 0 14 13 1 3 33 
Associations by Common Interest 


0 43 0 0 110 107 6 21 287 


These common interests are: 


1. Management Training 9. Uniform Personnel Employment System 

2. United Way Relations 10. Corporate Goal Setting Process 

3. Family Communication Workshops 11. Aquatic Training Institutes 

4. Physical Education Fitness Training 12. AMA Supervisory Management Training 

5. Camp Management Training (33 camps) for all Staff 

6. Sports Festival 13. Workshops on Program Project Budgeting 
7. Youth in Government 14. Workshop on Data Processing 

8. Financial Capital Needs 15. Central Purchasing 


These clusters have had 127 recorded meetings in the past twelve months. 


For some additional general information related to other cluster activity, it was 
determined that Regional Executives have direct relationships to this variety of 
clusters in 5 of the 8 Regions. 


All Regions reporting believed the activities of the clusters were congruent with the 
goals of the National Board. Conspicuous by its absence was any mention of cluster 
activity in regard to overcoming institutional racism. 


As to the prediction for cluster activity for the balance of 1972 compared with the 
same period of a year ago, all Regions indicated Increased activity," except one. 
Northeast estimated, "About the same." 

Additional comments offered by those completing the questionnaire are as follows: 


- Very promising potential, thus far only partially developed. 


- Good concept--need to develop better leadership from local Association to make 
concept work better. 


« S82 < 


- It's the only way to go. It maximized the utilization for local and National of 
resources, financial and manpower, particularly. Decentralized the decision- 
making process. Provides better climate for acting as a "grass roots" organization. 
If we really listen to, and respond to, the needs of local Associations, no two 
clusters will ever be alike in organization and delivery of services. 


- Our Region Study was highly supportive of this method of work. It will be 
increasingly effective for us. We are just getting started. 


- Difficult to gain significant participation of entire group. Cluster activity 
works best when there is a direct need for the service by several local YMCAs. 
A Region Committee is encouraging participation by laymen to improve the comnuni- 
cation within the Region. 


- Would appear to be the only method of providing services open to the Region, given 
the reductions in Region staff over the past 3 years. 


- It's the way of the future, and in my judgment will be accelerated in the days ahead 
- Geographical Clusters tend to be more closely related to National Organization 


because Regional staff are initiators. Metro 6 more independent because of 
funding, strong leadership, line with TUG, and self interests of staff. 


- Quality of delivery system. (Duplicate and competitive at times) 
- Prevailing self interests of some staff. 


- Actions, decisions, programs that are separate and apart from collective National 
interests. 


- Anxieties of some National Board staff around loss of status, position, influence, 
- Desire of some local staff to decimate National Board organization. 
- Negative reactions from medium smaller Associations. 


In concluding the Study, it would seem that there is a considerable development of 
clustering with some Regions affecting more comprehensive and varied cluster units 
than others. But for a general nationwide picture 83% of all the corporate YMCA units 
are now engaged in cluster activities with Regional staff having a direct relationship 
to these clusters. Some YMCAs are isolated from clusters because of location, there- 
fore, almost all potential Associations are now involved. 


The new National YMCA Organization Structure and Function has encouraged this cluster- 
ing to develop and in its development a wide range of models has been generated. 


The looseness of the cluster structure should create continued and expanded innovative 
activity in clustering. 


Time did not allow the study of the attitude of local leadership involved in cluster- 
ing experience. It should be a second step to the Study at a later date. 


RWH: bp 
June 27, 1972 


« 39 = 


SUMMARY EVALUATION OF 
THREE URBAN-METROPOLITAN 


EXPERIMENTAL CLUSTERS 


James M. Hardy, Coordinator of Evaluation 

Francis J. Pilecki, Evaluator, Mass. Bay Project 
Lyle K. Johnson, Evaluator, Chicagoland Project 
Harold C. Harlow, Jr., Evaluator, Tri-State Project 


Research and Development Division 
National Board of YMCAs 
April, 1971 


» 60 @ 


SUMMARY EVALUATION OF THREE 
URBAN-METROPOLITAN EXPERIMENTAL CLUSTERS 
ee ee 


Background 


The original impetus for developing Urban-Metropolitan Experimental Clusters emerged 
from the Steering Committee of the Conference on the Development of Urban-Metropolitan 
YMCAs. This Steering Committee, chaired by John Root of the Chicago YMCA and com- 
posed of the Executives of several Metropolitan YMCAs and members of the National 
Board staff, recognized that YMCAs in large urban areas must begin to work more close- 
ly together and coordinate more adequately their resources and their efforts in plan- 
ning, program, manpower development, financing, and other activities. Six different 
cluster models were considered by the Steering Committee of which three were finally 
selected to become operational. Each of the three experiments, which are the central 
focus of this summary evaluation report, were seen as sufficiently different to insure 
a wide range of experience. An operating description of each of the experiments is 
contained in the pages that follow. Collaborative funding for all of the experiments 
was negotiated between the National Board, the then Area and Regional Boards, and the 
group of participating Associations. Direct funding was provided by special grants 
from the General Agencies but large grants of staff time and YMCA resources were 
contributed by local Associations, particularly the Metropolitan Boston and Chicago 
Associations which functioned as the "Hub-Cities" for two of the experiments. 


Other Collaborative Projects 


The three Urban-Metropolitan Experimental Clusters were not the first or only experi- 
ences of the YMCA in effecting collaboration between Associations in urban-metropolitan 
areas. Indeed, the Los Angeles County YMCAs, the Bay Area YMCAs, and the Orange 
County YMCAs, all in high density areas of California, have had over a decade of 
successful experience. These three "councils" have operated on a fundamental assump- 
tion that YMCAs which occupy a common metropolitan trade area need to get together 
regularly to plan and on occasion to take joint action. In addition, a recent survey 
identified 21 examples of inter-Association collaboration in metropolitan areas.°- 
These examples ranged from rather loosely knit, single event cooperative ventures to 
well organized and staffed projects. 


In March, 1970, approximately one year after the Cluster Experiments began, the YMCA 
of St. Louis and St. Louis County entered into a contract with the Mid-America Region 
and Region One to provide support services and maintain contact relationships with 

12 independent YMCAs around St. Louis. A preliminary report has been submitted and 

a complete evaluation is currently in process.*“- 


It is postulated that the three Cluster Experiments that were selected to become 
operational represent an intensification of the YMCA's experience in inter-Association 
cooperation with a focus on: 1.) collaboration (Tri-State); 2.) direct delivery of 
comprehensive general agency services (Chicagoland); and 3.) a combination of collab- 
oration and direct delivery of specific services (Mass. Bay). Thus the experiments 

do represent a range of cooperative patterns which build upon and expand YMCA experi- 
ence of the past decade. 


1. Kessler, John W., Inter-Association Collaborative Efforts, 1969, mimeographed 
report to Conference on the Development of Urban-Metropolitan YMCAs. 


2. Hawkins, T. W., Metropolitan St. Louis Cluster of YMCAs, March, 1971, mimeographed. 


« S11 = 


Guiding Principles 


In order to gain sanction for the parties involved and to provide direction for the 
three Cluster Experiments, the Steering Committee developed and agreed upon the 
following statement of principles to guide the formation of the Cluster Experiments 
and their operation. 


I. 


Experimentation will take place within the context of the reorganization plan 
so as to enhance its concept and support its momentum. 


All Associations should be involved in the formative planning of experiments 
and should be given option as to joining or not joining the clusters. Official 
actions endorsing and authorizing participation of Associations should be 
secured. 


a. Clusters should meet and determine the nature of the collaborative pro- 
gram, planning, or training ventures to be conducted and the financial 
amounts required for these. 


Participating Associations should be prepared to make investments of staff time 
and financial resources to provide leadership and monetary capital for the pro- 
grams emerging from the experiments. The General Agency will be involved as a 
full collaborator in this process. 


a. A decision will be reached as to which of these should be managed within 
the resources resident in the Associations in the cluster; which should 
be collaboratively funded or solicited by cooperating Associations; which 
by a combination of Association and General Agency financing; and which 
by request for special General Agency appropriations. 

General Agency will provide support personnel to work with the experimental 
cluster and its collaborative ventures and they will be related to both the 
regionally-based National Staff and the National Urban Action Team. 


General Agency funds should be provided for in the regional section of the 
national budget for: 


a. Payment of the salary and expenses of the assigned professional 


b. Payment to the Hub-City Association or to other consultants inside or 
outside the Y Movement of agreed-upon fees for support services 


c. Payment of other expenses necessary to the experiment. 
General Agency funds required should come from: 
a. An item of appropriate size in the regional section of the national 
budget using regionally generated funds plus specially allocated 
national funds 
b. Funds to be cooperatively solicited for the financing of special projects. 


Funding should cover experimental programs for an agreed-upon period of time. 


Provision should be made for an objective evaluation of the experiments. 


- 32 - 


9. The experimental design and evaluative process should contribute directly to 
the goal of identifying the skills and resources needed to make possible the 
most effective YMCA service in Metropolitan areas. 


Evaluation 


The National Board's Research and Development Division was assigned the task of 

evaluating the three Cluster Experiments during a 21-month experimental period, 

April 1, 1969 to December 31, 1970. The Project Evaluators selected for on-site 
evaluation of each of the three experiments were: 


MASS. BAY - Dr. Francis J. Pilecki, Assistant Professor of Education, Boston 
University 


CHICAGOLAND - Dr. Lyle K. Johnson, Assistant Director, Division of Social Work 
Education, George Williams College 


TRI-STATE - Dr. Harold C. Harlow, Jr., Coordinator, Urban Studies Program, 
Springfield College. 


The Coordinator of the Evaluations was James M. Hardy, Executive of the Research and 
Development Division, National Board of YMCAs. 


The purposes of the evaluation of the three experiments were: 


1. To determine the efficacy of the experiments in terms of their objectives: 
satisfactions of clients; maintenance of strategic relationships; delivery 
of services (quality and quantity). 


2. To provide feedback into system with time for correction. 
3. To provide recommendations for continuance, discontinuance and/or change. 


4. To provide recommendations and operational descriptions for replication and 
dissemination. 


5S. To determine the mutual availability and use of resources among participating 
units. 


Key leaders in the Cluster Experiments and related General Agency staff were inti- 
mately involved in the evaluation throughout the experimental period. Specifically, 
leadership teams from the Cluster Experiments met with all Project Evaluators at 

the beginning to develop the evaluation design and at mid-point to assess progress. 
The evaluation designs of the three experiments were very similar, varying only 
around specific objectives of particular experiments. The research methodology con- 
sisted of analysis of written materials, meeting observations and interviews. In 
addition, an instrument based upon an output analysis conceptual framework was de- 
vised to elicit information from individuals in all YMCA units participating in the 
experiments. There were multiple administrations of the instrument in all of the 


Experiments. 


o 3, = 
SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS 
MASS. BAY PROJECT 


Recommendations 


Continuance/ Discontinuance 


The 


A. 


following suggestions are offered to the appropriate national and regional bodies. 


Augment the intensity and the thrust of the systems project. (As suggested in 
a previous report, a graduate student from a college of business administration 
might be awarded an internship to conduct data-gathering and information- 
dissemination duties.) 


A regular series of preventive maintenance programs on delimited topics (sel- 
ected by an analysis of the needs assessment done by Mr. Larabee) should be 
offered. Attendance by maintenance personnel, executives, and lay boards 
should be solicited. 


Meetings should be conducted sub-regionally to insure greatest possible attend- 
ance. Agenda should be devised and published well in advance. Start and end 
according to schedule. 


Some minimal "tax" or Association support scheme should be effected to instill 
greater participant interest. In addition, since the client is paying some of 
the costs, he will have a greater inclination to offer evaluative feedback on 

programs, and to indicate what he wants for his money. 


More time should be devoted to on-site contacts with executive and program 
personnel. Perhaps an in-house contact person should be designated by each 
participating unit. This would increase independence in upward-downward- 
lateral information flow. 


The National and Regional support should continue, both logistically and 
financially, until this project can become self supporting. 


The project should explore the "Broker" model -- offering services and informa- 
tion to several units at a contract cost which would be less than any one unit 
would pay were it to work individually. Rather than a large central staff, a 
small group of part-time, innovative personnel could effect great change. 


Explore (preferably with YMCA colleges), an intern program wherein a student 
might work with the Collaborative staff and in the field for both his own 
development and for the good of the project. (Costs would equal tuition plus 
room and board for one semester.) 


CHICAGOLAND 
Recommendations 
The project now includes the provision of continuous services. This has drawn 


some closer while others have moved away. It is recommended that a process be 
developed to permit the reconsideration of the involvement for each Association. 


a SE « 


2. At the conclusion of the experimental period, there seems to be a reality 
orientation in terms of the potential to meet initial objectives. It is 
recommended that the objectives be reviewed and modified as appropriate. 


3. The project has been guided, directed and implemented primarily through the 
executive cluster group. It is recommended that within the recognition of 
the key role of the executive group, improved patterns of communications and 
involvement be developed. Other directors at different levels in the system 
need greater involvement. 


4. The project is fully implemented, and definite process and services have de- 
veloped. The system that has emerged is relatively open and adaptive. It is 
recommended that the project be continued as one means of providing general 
agency services in the Chicagoland YMCA area. 


5. The executive directors indicated more dissatisfaction at the end of the experi- 
mental period than any of the other professional groupings. However, they also 
expressed a feeling of greater freedom to make suggestions regarding the direc- 
tion of the project. It is recommended that the executive directors in the 
cluster group use their freedom to make suggestions and their power to guide 
the project so that the project functions more to their satisfaction. 


TRI-STATE 
Recommendations 


Recommendations grow out of the data, but in a very real sense extend the data over 
into areas which include many different variables. They do not have to be agreed 
with, and can be checked against the data to find other avenues which could have 
been opened up, but which were not included in the recommendations. Nevertheless, 
they are a "lever" toward creative use of existing data for future planning. They 
are as follows: 


1. As a temporary system for dealing clearly with felt needs, Tri-State is providin, 
a method of clarifying these needs. Therefore, there exists a need for the 
continuation of this kind of experimental effort in some form. 


2. The effort at some sort of cluster support system in or around a Metropolitan 
area having several major operating power structures in existence needs to be 
taken into consideration. For instance, the presence of the National Offices 
and the reorganization of general services can be seen as causing confusion. 
Therefore, strong, consistent Staff and Lay leadership may need to be clearly 
defined and exhibited within the cluster system to offset these forces which 
might not exist in another situation; or more leadership and support given by 
the power groups. 


3. Long range goals are necessary. However, clear, attainable, non-controversial 
and tangible short range objectives need to be established early. These need 
to be measurable and open to redefinition at the end of given short periods of 
time based on concrete results. 


4. Establish an ongoing communications network which not only provides for up-to- 
date information but aims at the provision of a psychological support system 
for all members whereby they can feel free to enlist aid or support within a 
rapidly changing institution which reflects a rapidly changing society. 


» $5 « 


Members participate to the degree to which they are involved. It is therefore 
recommended that any cluster system provide a means for involvement through 
smaller sub-clusters or other means to insure participation in the decision 
making process. 


Confusion felt to exist in the total organization as the result of changes, 

and power groups in close proximity to a cluster support system, inevitably 
introduces this same confusion and concern for where power resides within the 
cluster system. Therefore, the new system must determine its own goals and 
make its own direction without waiting for clarity from outside groups and 
must make adjustments to these groups and their decisions as the cluster system 
develops, otherwise the new system will only procrastinate. Without this 
decision, a cluster group will not be in a position to make adjustments to 
decisions made by these power groups. 


The data indicated that laymen felt more a part of the planning process than 
did staff, and in many instances felt more involved and felt that Tri-State 
was more vital than did staff. Inasmuch as staff in their responses had felt 
left out of the process at many levels, even including communications, it 
seems necessary to say something about human relations consideration in the 
planning stages of any cluster support system. 


Executive Committee members meet fairly often and have the feeling that things 
are moving. However, the data from the surveys show that distribution of 
Executive Committee minutes is not enough to produce this same feeling in the 
general membership. 


The laymen may have felt more involved because of the special attention which 
was paid to them and the special effort made to communicate with them clearly 
and fully. Staff, on the other hand, who normally use such human relations 
skills with their constituents, seem to forget them when working with their 
peers. It is strongly suggested therefore that the variable which deals with 
openness, humanness and individuals' needs regarding participation and psycho- 
logical support be built into the plann’ng from the beginning. 


The cluster support system does marshall ideas and leadership for meeting some 
needs. Through discussion and arousal of interest in cluster support, some of 
the ideas or projects get fed into local Associations where leadership evi- 
denced at cluster meetings is used to put a project to local use, broaden 
horizons, or bring new perspective to cooperative work and planning. It also 
generates new projects within local Associations. 


The dual development above can be seen also in first, the increased verbaliza- 
tion from local Associations for more specific services from either National 
or Regional; and secondly, within the cluster of the development of specific 
projects, even though it is conceivable they might have been accomplished by 
Regional or National. 


Thus, the development of ideas, projects, new work relationships across differ- 
ent boundaries, and perhaps infusion of some of this into the local situation 
(all task oriented) can be seen as a positive result even while remaining un- 
documented except for the growth and development of institutional leadership 

in experimenting with better, sharper and more relevant forms of organizational 
functioning. Such experiments need support and continuation. 


18. 


16. 


17. 


— oe 
IMPLICATIONS FOR URBAN-METROPOLITAN CLUSTERS 


(Derived from Evaluations of Three Cluster Experiments) 


Operating Implications for the Future 


There is positive evidence supporting the Hub-City Cluster concept for delivery 
of services. 


There is no one model that is most effective for collaboration of contiguous 
units and delivery of services. Flexibility in patterns of collaboration and 


service delivery must be maintained and based on needs, readiness, and desires 
of participating units. 


Commitment is essential on the part of: 
- Regional Boards and Staff 
- Hub City Board and Staff 
- Participating Unit Boards and Staff 


Broad involvement in the planning process is very important (particularly laymen 
and staff below the Executive level). 


Specific roles and line accountability for task performance of cluster staff 
must be clearly identified. 


Rational financial base relative to goals and objectives of cluster is vital. 


Units providing specific service should have contractual arrangements with 
accountability for performance. 


Special technical services, as differentiated from general consultant services, 
encourage successful experience. 


Attitudinal blocks of participants (big-small syndrome) must be and can be over- 
come. 


It is important to provide a range of involvement for participating units, with 
local options. 


Collaborative endeavors tend to maximize use of "close to home" resources. 


Continuous process of evaluation and feedback, using various research methodol- 
ogies and disciplines, should be an integral part of Hub-City cluster functioning. 


Emphasis should be given to the involvement of laymen. 


Financial projections for financing Hub-City Clusters must be made and funding 
sources identified. 


Aggressively supportive stance of National Board and staff is necessary in en- 
couraging collaborative arrangements among local YMCAs. 


Steering Committee for Clusters should have built in rotating membership pattern. 


Realistic, short-term objectives that are achievable and measurable should be a 
part of cluster planning. 


- 37 - 
CRITERIA FOR SELECTION OF HUB-CITY CLUSTERS 


Objectives 


Have staff and laymen from all participating units been involved in the 
planning for the Cluster and specification of objectives? 


Are objectives operationally specific? Can achievement be measured? 


Is there a rational financial base for the Cluster that makes the achievement 
of objectives realistic? 


Leadership 


Is there evidence of full commitment on the part of: 


- Regional Board and Staff? 
- Hub-City Board and Staff? 
- Participating Unit Boards and Staff? 


Is the National Staff organized in both a flexible and functional way that 
will provide support and/or leadership? 


Are staff and lay roles clearly specified and lines of accountability for task 
performance identified? 


Has provision been made for rotating membership on the Cluster Steering 
Committee? 


Has provision been made for adequate lay involvement from all participating 
units? 


Is the Hub-City ready to support the influence potential of all participating 
units in Cluster functioning? 


Organizational and Process Structure 


Is the Hub-City supportive of the Cluster and willing to commit resources to 
Cluster functioning? 


Are all participating units in the Cluster willing to share resources as they 
are needed and desired by other Cluster units? 


Does the Hub-City have technical resources as part of its Metropolitan staff 
in the following areas: 


- Fiscal Management? 

- Building Maintenance? 
- Manpower Development? 
- Financial Development? 
- Planning? 


Has the Hub-City demonstrated high performance and expertise in the above 
areas? 


Are there contractual arrangements for specified periods of time that provide 
specific Cluster objectives with accountability for performance? 


Are options for participation provided for all units in the Cluster? 
Have provisions been made for evaluation of Cluster effectiveness, including 


cost/effectiveness, on an annual basis and for continuous feedback into the 
Cluster? 


Environment 


Is the Hub-City perceived as having competence that is wanted by the contiguous 
units? 


Does the Cluster represent a regional planning area, metropolitan trade center 
or Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area? 


Does the media coverage of the Cluster override local YMCA service areas? 
Do prior working relationships, contacts and experiences indicate that 


collaboration with other agencies in the Cluster can be effected in achieving 
Cluster objectives? 


« 39 = 


EXAMPLES OF 1973 PROPOSALS 


THE MASSACHUSETTS BAY YMCA COLLABORATIVE PROJECT 
14 Somerset Street 
Boston, Mass. 02108 
Tel. 617-523-4570 


MEMORANDUM 


To: Mass. Bay Executive Directors and Branch Executives 
From: Jack Appleton 


Date: April 11, 1972 


Re: Request for Hub City Funds for 1973 


Attached please find a copy of the proposal to be presented to 
the Regional Board requesting a grant of $50,000 for specialized 
services to be delivered to Mass. Bay YMCA's by the Greater Bos- 
ton YMCA during 1973. This covers all services presently avail- 
able under the 1972 contract plus certain new features proposed 
by a committee made up of George Ramsden, John Danielson, Bruce 
Taylor and Jack Appleton. 


The proposal will be reviewed in detail in the special open meet- 
ing called for such purpose on Friday, April 14. Any modifica- 
tion resulting from the discussion at the called meeting will be 
incorporated prior to the final vote at the regular meeting of 
the Steering Committee on Thursday, April 20, at the Waltham YMCA. 


Attachment 


« i < 


On January 1, 1972, the Greater Boston YMCA began delivering consultative Field 
Staff services on behalf of the Northeast Region YMCA to the YMCA's in the Greater 
Boston Area. During the initial three-month period of the twelve-month contract, 
the following types of services have been provided to local Associations and to the 
Mass. Bay Cluster of YMCA's: 


Development of uniform chart of accounts 

Installation of one write systems 

Mass media public relations 

Maintenance consultation 

Consultation on contracts with State of Mass. Department of Youth Services 
Seminar with YMCA executives and charitable foundation representatives 
Consultation on capital fund raising. 


The above list is intended to be descriptive rather than evaluative. The life of 

the contract has been too brief to provide a full evaluation. There will be a mid- 
point evaluation at the end of six months and a year-end evaluation. However, 
response to the services provided to date has been positive and the volume of requests 
has increased each month. This has encouraged the development of a second-year con- 
tract proposal which has been prepared in collaboration with the regional staff 
person assigned, John G. Appleton, and the Chairman of the Mass. Bay Cluster, George 
Ramsden. 


Therefore, based on experience to date, the attached proposal for $50,000 is sub- 
mitted to the Northeast Region YMCA Board. 
I. PERSONNEL 


The Greater Boston YMCA will continue to make available through this contract 
the consultative services of the following staff: 


John Danielson Leo Johnson Peter Post Bruce Taylor 
Alden Eberly Al Larrabee Jack Rogers Ken Thompson 
Arthur Fultz Rob MacIntosh Alvan Sinoff Don Vincent 


In addition, services of other members of the Greater Boston staff can be uti- 
lized as they might be required. 


II. SERVICES 


The contract will provide for the continuation of consultative staff services 
in the following areas: 


A. Personnel and Training 
1. Development of a uniform personnel policy with particular reference to: 
a. Provisions for annual appraisal of personnel. 
b. Salary ranges and salary administration. 
c. Fringe benefits. 


2. Monitoring minimum standards of orientation of new employees. 


3. Development of a uniform and complete file on professional and adminis- 
trative personnel. 


B. 


C. 


x ME = 
4. Development of a schedule of career development for Staff Associates. 


5. Identification of personnel, orientation and training needs of Executive 
Directors and training resources. 


6. Development of more adequate budget resources for staff development. 
7. Upgrading utilization of work-study students. 


8. Interpreting and promoting participation in the comprehensive program 
of Career Development and Staff Training of the National Council of YMCA's. 


9. Development of a system in response to compliance with the Unemployment 
Compensation Act. 


Financial Development 
1. Sustaining Membership Campaign or World Service Campaign 


a. Help develop lay and staff training workshops. 
b. Consult on campaign materials, including design and content. 
c. Consult on manpower needs and organizational structure. 


2. Deferred Giving 


a. Provide outline for material for Endowment Brochure. 

b. Recommend technical consultants on annuities, non-cash gifts and 
other methods of deferred giving. 

c. Provide training sessions for attorneys, bankers and insurance men 
concerning deferred giving. 


3. Capital Campaign 


a. Provide information on Capital Campaign consultants. 
b. Help design lay and staff training sessions. 
c. Consult on manpower needs and organizational structure. 


4. Foundation Giving 
Provide information on Greater Boston Foundations. 
5S. U.Giss 


Provide consultation on strategy, preparation and presentation of U.C.S. 
budget requests. 


Management Services 


1. General Consultation - Consultation on "general" type of issues where 
the scope of problem is undefined; goal is to assist local management 
in identifying critical variables for local decision making. 


2. Computer Systems - Assistance in preparing feasibility studies leading 
toward manual/machine decisions for local implementation. Scope of 
studies could include the following: 


10. 


Lt. 


se ED 


a. In-house computer processing. 

b. In-house electric accounting machines. 

c. Full capability service bureau. 

d. Limited capability service bureau (i.e., handle payroll). 


Manual Systems - Evaluation and recommendations leading to modification 
or replacement of local manual accounting, accounts receivable billing, 
accounts payable, membership, program record keeping methods. 


NOTE: The Management Services Staff assumes that (a) most Mass. Bay 
participating Associations do not have sufficient transaction volumes 
to support in-house computer installation; (b) there is a distinct 
advantage to local-regional-national adoption of the recently accepted 
Uniform Chart of Accounts. 


Main Desk Procedures - Local implementation of an integrated plan in- 
volving physical layout and installation, receipting and record keeping 
equipment, evaluation of support machines; leads to job descriptions, 
manpower deployment, and flow of work outputs. 


Operating Budget and Cash Flow - Use of local data to develop "historical" 
cash income and expense. When related to "spread" budgets, enables local 


management to plan for cash shortages/surpluses well in advance of crises 
situations. Potential outcomes could be short-term borrowing, short- 
term investments, line of credit, etc. 


Capital Budgets and Cash Flow - For use in capital projects. Basic con- 
cept is estimation of capital contract billings and forecasting of income 
from pledges. Potential outcomes as above. 


Invested Funds - Evaluation of performance of invested funds; recommenda- 
tion regarding future long and short-term investment policy. 


Purchasing-Inventory - Evaluation of inventory investment and security. 
Output is recommendation regarding efficiency of inventory management 
(re: frozen cash) and purchasing volume. 


Controls - Testing of receipting process and petty cash procedures. 
Elimination of potential loss, pilferage, or error in cash receipts. 


Capital Projects - Including but not limited to consultation on contracts, 
furnishings, scheduling, arbitration, construction monitoring. 


Cost Studies - Consultation on implementation of either the "National 
Formula’ or other reasonably accepted cost collection-allocation methods; 
follow-up consultation regarding rate structures based on rate-of-return 
or other profit constraints. 


D. Maintenance 


1. 


Consultation on Cost Estimates 


Accurate cost estimates for YMCA buildings can be provided that will in- 
clude labor and material costs for plumbing, electrical, carpentry, and 
painting work, and for renovation and construction projects. Estimates 
will be prepared in written forn, itemized for hours of labor, kinds and 


a AQ « 


amounts of materials, estimated time to complete a given project and 
supervision to completion any contract agreed upon. 


2. Consultation for Training of Maintenance and Custodial Personnel 


A program to provide for the training of personnel in cleaning, maintain- 
ing and maintenance prevention of YMCA facilities. Training of custodial 
personnel on what to look for before troubles begin and what to do after; 
how to determine the right materials for specific maintenance jobs; and 
training employees where to find the resources for specialized maintenance 
projects. In this program will be included any one or all of these pro- 
cedures; group training, in-service training and/or on-the-job training. 


3. Consultation on a Preventative Maintenance Program 


Preventative Maintenance consultation will include development of systems 
for individual member units, kinds of materials needed in the program, 
time involved and personnel needed for the success of the program. 


Personnel available for these training programs include experienced builders, 
maintenance Superintendent, licensed plunbers, licensed electricians, quali- 
fied and experienced carpenters, engineers and specialists in the building 
and maintenance field. 


Public Relations 
1. Service to Local Units: 


a. Evaluation and/or consultation in the area of utilization of available 
media resources. 


- Newspapers - radio - television - billboards - special promotion 
b. Evaluation and/or consultation of organizational graphics. 


- Brochures - letterheads - posters - billboards - annual reports - 
special funding materials - membership cards - all other printed 
material designated for public contact - printers (most efficient 
use of) 


c. Organization of Special Presentations. 


- One on one interpretive books (for funding, volunteers, etc.) - 
exhibits - slide tape and multi-media - simple and portable; 
complex (gear to one time and/or specific groupings) 


2. Service to the Mass. Bay Units Collectively (via Jack Appleton) 


a. Consult for a Mass. Bay Area Public Relations Workshop which would 
include: leaders from key media - newspaper, radio, T.V. - an 
Instruction Manual for the utilization of simple public relations 
tasks - i.e., calendar announcements, news releases, spot announcements. 


b. Consult for the consolidation of materials with common use - i.e., 
camp brochures, YMCA week, sustaining membership - would include the 
larger per cent of materials printed by YMCA's. 


= 44 « 


c. Collaborate to produce Radio and T.V. spots for common events (also 
Billboard, Posters) - i.e., fall program, camping, Y week, Learn-to- 
swim. 


F. Program Development 


Program development in the YMCA is essentially the actions and interactions 
which further the purposes of the YMCA. 


Personnel, including members, volunteers, laymen, staff, facilities and funds 
are resources for program development. Broadly considered, program is every- 
thing that happens to people in their contacts with or because of the YMCA. 
It includes all of the influences which the organization exerts upon their 
growth and development and their attitudes and conduct. 


Basic to program development is the clarification of goals and purposes, of 
needs and interests. Appropriate involvement of those persons concerned or 
to be affected, built-in planning and evaluation processes, assessment and 
mobilization of resources are fundamental elements of program development. 


Bringing about growth in persons and constructive changes in society are both 
recent and traditional goals of the YMCA. The realization of these goals is 
interrelated in program development. It is well illustrated by those who 
attended classes to improve their skills in the use of underwater breathing 
apparatus and who concurrently collaborated with others in getting state 
legislation passed to insure the manufacture and sale of safe apparatus. 


The positive result of program development is the only rationale for the 
existence of the YMCA. All other components of the YMCA may be judged by 
the extent to which they contribute or the extent to which they are utilized 
in program. 


The scope of program development and services available to the Mass. Bay 
YMCA's through the Greater Boston YMCA is as follows: 


1. Clarify the goals and purposes of the local YMCA by boards, committees 
and staffs. 


2. Expand the recruiting and training of volunteer leadership on behalf of 
Association program. 


3. Increase the role of youth and young people in the goal setting and 
decision making of the Association. 


*4, Develop pilot projects in collaboration among YMCA's in response to 
public issues which merit state or federal funding. 


*Qpportunities for enlarging the scope of such projects as "Spanish-Speaking Resident 
Camping'' supported by federal funds should be explored. For example, if the project 
is renewed, it may be possible to include Spanish-Speaking youth who are residents 
of municipalities outside of Boston. 


Concerns common to several YMCA's should be identified which may be developed into 
proposals which fall within the scope of federal legislation and funding. Particular 
attention should be given to the availability of project funds through H.E.W., the 
Department of Labor, and the Department of Justice. Attention should be given also 
to project funding through state and municipal agencies. 


« 45 « 
5. Implement the minimum standards of the YMCA Aquatic Program. 


6. Develop minimum standards in the operation of fitness programs for 
adults. 


7. Respond to the growing need for veterans counseling. 
8. Expand the outreach of the YMCA into the community. 


9. Utilize the resources of college and university students for career 
oriented experiences. 


10. Coordinate planning and resources for resident and day camps. 


Organization Development and Planning 


Organization development describes the process in diagnosis, problem solving 
and training which can be used to help an organization improve its effective- 
ness. Organization development focus is the concern within the organization 
for increased competency in the functions and work of persons within it; more 
flexibility in dealing with the changes it must confront and increased capa- 
city to do the work it must to become the kind of organization it desires to 
be. Organization development, therefore, works with both the people in the 
organization and the facts of organizational life. That is, its procedures, 
its structure, its process of communication, its decision making and its 
relationship to its external environment. 


Organization development, therefore, will focus on the following factors in 
organization life: 


. Development of a problem-solving orientation and process. 

Development of diagnostic skills. 

Identification and mobilization of resources needed. 

. Design and implementation of training required. 

. Development of a continuing process of planning, implementation, evalu- 
ation and modification. 


WRPWD Pe 


Planning is a rational process of decision making based on clear objectives, 
adequate information, development of alternative courses of action, selection 
of one or more of these alternatives, implementation, evaluation and modifi- 
cation. 


Planning, therefore, will focus on the following: 
1. The development of a planning process including: 


a. Long-range planning -- The means for projecting where the organi- 
zation wants to go over the next five or ten years, and involving 
systematic decision making to determine long-range needs and objec- 
tives and to formulate broad plans of action to meet them. 


b. Short-term planning -- The establishment of short-range goals (one 
to three years), the selection of activities to be undertaken within 
that period, the assignment of priorities and designation of specific 
courses of action that will be undertaken. This is based on review 
of existing activities and projection of suggested new activities. 


« 46; = 
c. Budgeting -- The translation of plans into the financial require- 
ments for a specifically defined time period, and the basis on 
which financial resources of the Association are committed among 
approved programs. 
2. Project planning. 


3. Organization self-studies. 


4. Community need assessments. 


III. NEW SERVICES 


Three new or expanded services are proposed as a part of this contract. 


A. 


To provide 50% of the time of a full-time staff person in the area of Person- 
nel, Training, Employment and Racial Practices. In addition to the specific 
areas listed in II A, the following areas would be added: 


1. Development of job mobility for staff within the 20 YMCA's in the Mass. 
Bay Area. 


2. Personnel systems and practices with particular emphasis on performance 
appraisal, labor relations, unemployment law. 


3. Implementation of such national thrusts as Project Equality. 


4. Development of YMCA job opportunities and job mobility for minority group 
members. 


To provide 25% of the time of a full-time staff person to function as the 
primary staff resource to the Program Council of the Mass. Bay Cluster of 
YMCA's in the development of: 


1. Training for full-time program staff. 
2. Inter-Association program projects. 


3. Full utilization of the potential leadership on Greater Boston Area 
college campuses. 


4. Training designs for part-time program staff in specialized fields such 
as: day and resident camps, high school work, community outreach, 
aquatics, etc. 


To make available to all YMCA's in the Mass. Bay area participation, through 
the Greater Boston YMCA, in two health benefit plans -- Blue Cross/Blue 
Shield and Harvard Master Medical. The Greater Boston YMCA would make the 
necessary arrangements with both of these health plans and provide the 
administrative services necessary to process all participants. 


= 47 = 


The Young Men's Christian Association of Metropolitan Chicago 
CHICAGOLAND PROPOSAL - 1972 - 75 
BACKGROUND 


Executives of 14 independent YMCA's, including Chicago and 13 adjoining YMCA's, have 
been meeting about monthly for three years, with full support and initiation by 

Dunbar Reed and Region I. During this three years, four additional YMCA's have joined 
this cluster (making 18) and at present, 8 to 10 other independent YMCA's are in 
negotiation for this relationship. Individual operating units from both Indiana and 
Illinois include approximately 60 in Chicago, 22 units of affiliated independent 
YMCA's and about 15 units in those YMCA's considering this relationship. All but one 
existing YMCA included in the cluster is actively participating. It is anticipated 
that approximately 100 operating units will be involved in the near future - 60 in 
Chicago and 40 units from about 27 independent YMCA's. 


Two years ago, this group of Executives asked the Chicago Association to provide full 
support services beyond those normally proved by Region or National Staff. This 
original contract for services was one of the three hub-city experiments contracted 
with the National Board, whereby Chicago YMCA was reimbursed for some of their oper- 
ating/servicing costs. Funds were built into the Region I budget for this, which 
amounted to about $54,000 in 1969, $63,000 in 1970 and $56,000 in 1971. 


The three years have seen continual growth in the cluster. During 1968, the chief 
focus was on building a common power base to affect the Region and National service 
delivery. In 1969, a deluge of specific service requests to Chicago were generated 
and serviced. During 1970, trust and openness in the cluster was established through 
crucial test actions - experimenting with a unified financial development plan 
(basically a bust) - critical staff executive placement decisions - enrollment in a 
variety of fringe benefit programs (group health and life, credit union, deferred 
annuity, disability) - computerized accounting-payroll system and one formal con- 
tracted affiliation, including line supervision. In 1971, the primary thrust is 
development of and "buying into" a variety of support systems that indicates a sur- 
vival need for both Chicago and independent YMCA units. Continual development and 
refinement of sophisticated programs to provide effective management and administra- 
tive support, and thus free up greater energy for service delivery, is indicated as 
the primary focus for both the immediate and long term future, and applies equally 
to all operating units both in Chicago and in the independent YMCAs. 


Key to the cluster development experience has been the ongoing meeting together of 
Executives. This group is defining objectives, assessing results and determining 
thrust for the cluster. More and more, they are performing the key communication 
role to other staff and laymen for two way communication. 


Additionally, the gradual increased involvement of other key Chicago Metropolitan 
staff (through testing needs for, and feedback on, support system development) pro- 
vides consideration of requirements of both independent units as well as operating 
groups of Chicago units, thus increasing effectiveness through coordination of de- 
velopment and planning. 


Finally, the thrust of the cluster has been enhanced by a three way support dialogue 
throughout - independent YMCA Executives, Region Staff and Chicago Staff, leading to 
a continued growth in potential and operational effectiveness. 


oe 
RATIONALE 


Support system development (as opposed to continual "fire fighting" in crises) will 
be the major thrust in coming years. Development of these systems with full involve- 
ment of all operating units is essential. Financing their development, testing 
refinement, and making them operational must be provided. 


The major technical expertise areas being developed in the YMCA of Metropolitan 
Chicago as services available to both its operating units and independent YMCA's 
are as follows: 


I. Project Management of Chicagoland Cluster operation 
II. Fiscal Management 

- Automated accounting for all operating accounts, including payroll 
Automated complete accounting, including capidal and reserve accounts 


Program-Budgeting - Cost accounting sub-system 
- Fiscal Management for government funded projects 


III. Management Development 


- Program development and coordination 
- Management by Objectives 

- Facility operations 

- Personnel Administration 

- Fringe benefits administration 

- Training and manpower development 

- Technical expertise consultants 

- Planning 


IV. Financial Development 


- Consultation in communications, financial development and marketing 

- Government Regional Office representation, including proposal develop- 
ment for public funding 

- TV and radio spots for Chicago outlets and local station uses. 


COSTS 


It is assumed that developmental costs for these above support areas will be primarily 
costs to the Chicago Association. Providing these services on an operational basis 

to independent YMCA's in the cluster will continue to be supported partially from 
Region I through its contract with the Chicago YMCA for delivery of services. It is 
assumed a growth rate of about 5% annually will increase these payments from the 
$56,000 in 1971 to approximately $68,000 in 1975. 


- 49 - 


CHICAGOLAND YMCA'S 
BUDGET 
1972 1973 
I. CLUSTER MANAGEMENT 


- Cluster operations - providing cluster executive - 

25% of one staff time equivalent $ 6,000 $ 6,300 
- Monthly (or more often) cluster meetings 800 1,000 
- External Organization Development Consultants 2,000 2,300 


Total - Cluster Management $ 8,800 $ 9,600 


II. FISCAL MANAGEMENT 


- Provide Automated Accounting System for all oper- 
ating accounts, monthly operating statements, 
including printouts of supporting data - and 
computerized payroll system for 7 independent 
YMCA'ts in 1971, 14 YMCA's in 1972, 21 YMCA's in 
1973 and 28 YMCA's in 1974, $35,000 $40,000 


- Funding for developmental work (external con- 
sultants and technical expertise - plus current 
staff) to implement a Complete Accounting 
System - an automated system to record all 
capital, operating and club treasury accounts, 
monthly operating statements and balance sheets; 
printouts of all supporting data. 15,000 No Charge 


- Funding for development work (consultants, experts, 
and current staff) to implement a Program - 
Budgeting - Cost Accounting Sub-System to include: 
membership recording-billing;, program activities 
and services recording system, including cost 
accounting, conforming with internal management 
needs, United Way and National YMCA report needs. No Charge 12,000 


- Fiscal Management System for Government Funded 
Projects, including budget preparation, operating 
guidelines, contract negotiations, administrative 


procedures. No Charge No Charge 
Total - Fiscal Management $50,000 $52,000 


Chicagoland YMCA's - Budget - Cont. 
III. MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT 


- Provide technical expertise for consultation 


on call in the following areas: 

-Program development and coordination 

-Management by Objectives system 

-Facility Operations system 

-Personnel Administration system 

-Fringe Benefits Administration system 

-Training and Manpower Development system 

-Urban Programs, including community 
development 

-~Education programs, including high school, 
college and informal education 

-Employment and Training Programs 

-Planning 


- Provide direct operational services to Chicago 
and independent YMCA units as follows: 


-Coordination of special events and acti- 
vities in Physical Education - Physical 
Education Congress and Methods, Research 
Conference, etc. 

-Provide administration and claims handling 

for health and life insurance program 
of the Urban Group. 


Total - Management Development 
IV. FINANCIAL DEVELOPMENT 


- Provide consultation services in Communications, 
Financial Development and Marketing. 


- Provide Governmental Regional Office Repre- 


sentation: All government agencies have 
regional offices in Chicago, serving from 

8 to 10 midwest states. Provide consultation, 
and entry to these agencies - who to see, 
where to take what kind of proposal, etc. 


- Provide TV spots and Radio Spots (camping, 


swimming, contributors, etc.) run for 
Chicagoland YMCA's through Chicago TV outlets 
and sent to local radio and TV stations in 
local cities. Production costs to be shared 
by cluster YMCA's. Development costs by 
Chicago. 


Total - Financial Development 


SUMMARY TOTALS 


I. Cluster Management 
II. Fiscal Management 

III. Management Development 
IV. Financial Development 


GRAND TOTALS 


1972 


No Charge 


No_ Charge 


No Charge 


No Charge 


No Charge 


No Charge 
No Charge 


$ 8,800 
50,000 
No Charge 
No Charge 


$58,800 


1973 


No charge 


No Charge 
No Charge 


No Charge 


No Charge 


No Charge 
No Charge 


$ 9,600 
52,000 
No Charge 
No Charge 


$61,600 


ie SE = 


PROPOSAL 
CHICAGOLAND MODEL FOR 1971-72 


I. Presently four styles of membership - participation 


1. Attendance at monthly meetings 

2. Call for what help you want of specialized technical nature or general 
consultant nature 

3. The computerized accounting - payroll package 

4. Affiliation - like Berwyn Cicero 


II. During the past six months, we have moved toward operation issues, supports 
and systems as primary priorities for services in monthly Chicagoland meetings - 
this prompts several needs. 


1. Need tie-in of Chicago operational staff on operational issues. 

2. Need coordination of developing support systems (i.e., accounting - person- 
nel administration - training - planning - financial development - 
program development, etc.) so needs of all operating units - both inde- 
pendent Y's and Chicago units are considered and serviced. 

3. More effective use of people's time. 


III. RECOMMENDATIONS 


A. Participation 


1. Maintain monthly meetings of Executive group with agenda items surfaced 
by both operational and support groups. 


2. Pinky Parker and Jean Anne Durades to be assigned by Dunbar Reed as 
general consultants to the Chicagoland Cluster, both independent and 
Chicago units. 


3. Pinky Parker to meet twice monthly with Chicago District Directors 
(Dale Litney's group) for liaison with operational problems. 


4. Jean Anne Durades to meet regularly with Corporate Resources and Devel- 
opment staff (Bill Kuntz's group) for liaison with support systems. 


5. Dale Litney to meet monthly with Chicagoland Executive's group for 
liaison with operational issues. 


6. Dunbar Reed and John Root will meet with Chicagoland executives as 
required. 


7. Bill Kuntz to continue as needed in coordinating monthly executive 
meetings and coordinating Chicago support services. 


B. Objectives for 1971-72 
1. All cluster executives of independent units active in monthly meetings 


in determining directions and assessing results of cluster effective- 
ness. 


Include other independent "Y" units in the cluster - i.e., north- 
western Indiana, such as South Bend, Porter County and Michigan City, 
as well as other northeastern Illinois units, such as Belvidere, 
Ottawa and DeKalb. 


Increase participation of all cluster units in the two complete support 
systems now available - the complete fringe benefit package and the 
complete accounting package. 


Commission a staff group composed of both independent YMCA's and 
Chicago personnel to recommend by December 31, 1971, a model to do 
two things: 


a) Achieve participation, communication and mutual support by both 
independent and Chicago units in cluster affairs 


b) Determine appropriate involvement at three levels - program staff - 
executive staff - laymen 


c) Utilize outside consultant with this task group - possibly Tom 
Bennett 


Secure re-affirmation by each independent YMCA by Board action for 
participation in the Chicagoland YMCA Cluster. 


William Kuntz 


WK: f1 


5/18/71 


PROPOSED Y'S IN CHICAGOLAND CLUSTER 


1970 

ILLINOIS ACTUAL 
Aurora $ 10,527 
Belvidere 2,670 
Berwyn (Berwyn-Cicero) 0 
Chicago 68,252 
Crystal Lake (Lake Region) 1,999 
DeKalb (Kishwaukee) 2,693 
Elgin 10,433 
Evanston 75033 
Glen Ellyn (B. R. Ryall) 6,319 
Joliet (Joliet Central) 10,076 
Joliet (Community Branch) 804 
Kankakee 5,316 
Libertyville (Waukegan Community Branch) 470 
Lombard 0 
Naperville 4,068 
North Suburban 9,250 
Oak Park 6,340 
Ottawa 1,683 
Proviso -- 

Rockford 8,383 
Waukegan (Central) 5,506 
Waukegan (Genessee Street Branch) 932 


TOTAL ILLINOIS 


« 5% = 


FAIR SHARE SUPPORT - 1970 


REGION I - ASSOCIATIONS 


$162,754 


1970 
UNPAID 


$13,829 


« SA < 


FAIR SHARE SUPPORT - 1970 


REGION I - ASSOCIATIONS 


1970 
INDIANA ACTUAL 
Chesterton (Porter Co. 

Westchester Branch) $ 425 
Elkhart 0 
Gary 3,000 
Hammond 2,319 
LaPorte 2,668 
Michigan City 2,368 
Portage (Porter County - 

Portage Township Branch) 431 
South Bend 9,814 
Valparaiso (Porter County) 1,432 

INDIANA TOTAL $ 22,457 
Summary: 

20 Illinois Y's $162,554 

9 Indiana Y's 22:;457 

TOTAL $185,011 


TOTAL PAID §& UNPAID 


$212,123 


PROSPECTIVE IN CHICAGOLAND CLUSTER 


1970 
UNPAID 


2,706 


$13,283 


$13,829 


13,283 


$27,112 


(Pd. $5,888 in 1969) 


« §& « 
SOUTHWEST YMCA METRO SIX BUDGET PROPOSAL 


ORGANIZATION: 


Metro/6 is the collaborative organization of the six Metropolitan YMCAs in the South- 
west Region. These Associations have a total of seventy-nine operating units. The 
Metro/6 Staff group has a membership of 18 staff members and has been meeting four 
times each year for training, planning, and working on major issues and concerns. 
Three Task Groups are functioning in the area of: 1. Fiscal Management; 


2. Financial Development; 3. Management Development. 
PURPOSE : 


Develop and maximize the use of the collective capabilities of the six Southwest 
Metropolitan Associations for more effective management and influencing societal 
changes. Within this purpose is the assumption that existing and developing capa- 
bilities of the Metro-Six would be available to other Associations who desire to 
work in a collaborative system for their own improvement. 


EXPERIENCES: 


In the past year, the expertise of the staff has been enhanced and the capability to 
share management resources with other Associations increased through the following: 


1. A Management Development plan has been completed which provides for position 
description, performance appraisal, training need assessment and salary 
administration. Each of the Metro/6 Associations is working on this plan, 
and at least one other Association has adopted the plan. The task team from 
Metro/6 gave leadership to a National Meeting on wage and salary administration 
meeting of the National organization. 


2. Staff has been of assistance to small Associations in I.R.S. related problems. 


3. The Fiscal Management Task Group is well along into the Data Processing Pro- 
gram which will be available to other Associations. 


4. <A planned program Budgeting Training Program is planned. 


5. A YMCA Marketing Training Group will be held Sept. 6-8, 1972 from which will 
come new learnings in marketing the YMCA product. 


6. A Financial Development session was sponsored for selected Executives and 
the Metro/6 Staff. 


7. John MacBean conducted a financial development seminar for Metro/6 staff and 
laymen. 


These are a few achievements which are moving the Metro/6 group toward its objectives 
of becoming more proficient in its own management skills and in improving its capa- 
bility in responding to other Associations as needed. 


BUDGET PROPOSAL: 


We present the request for funding in 1973 from the Regional Budget with growing con- 
fidence in the collaborative idea. The achievements of the six Associations in the 
past year have demonstrated the gains to be made and already can be seen in the spin- 
off value to all Associations. 


« 56 = 


METRO/6 1973 BUDGET ESTIMATES 


LEADERSHIP TEAM 


6 Meetings - 4 people $1,600 
Communication-Tele., postage 300 
General Meeting Expenses 300 
Consultant fees 1,000 
TOTAL $3,200 


FISCAL MANAGEMENT TASK GROUP 


Data processing program 


Programming time 4,500 
Rental Key Punch (testing) 1,500 
Key Punch Operator 1,500 
Consultation time 2,000 
Reproduction 200 
TOTAL 9,700 


*** MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT TASK FORCE 
Self Development 
Development Training 1,000 
Personnel Administration 1,500 


Other Training §& Development 


Program action planning 1,000 

Program Skills 1,500 

Consultation Expense 3,000 
TOTAL 8 ,000 


FINANCIAL DEVELOPMENT 


Reproduction 300 
Leadership Training 
Special Seminar 2,500 
Travel 300 
Meetings - Hotel, Meals 500 
Postage, Telephone 200 
TOTAL 3,800 
TOTAL BUDGET REQUEST $24,700 


***See detailed information attached-- 


& BF a 


KENTUCKIANA CLUSTER 
GOALS AND OBJECTIVES 


1973 


Purpose: 


The purpose of the Kentuckiana Cluster is to operate and develop 
as a Cluster of local YMCAs, with the Louisville YMCA as the Hub 
City Association, to work cooperatively in sharing experiences 
and meeting needs in order that the member YMCAs be strengthened 
and their constituents more effectively served. 


1973 Goals and Objectives: 


Goals 


hs 


Il. 


Tif. 


To continue a program of Finan- 
cial Development to strengthen 
the financial situations of 
participating Associations. 


To investage and implement such 
administrative support services 
as are deemed feasible, i.e. 
Computerized Membership records, 
Central Bookkeeping, etc. 


To develop a Cluster Assembly 
which includes Lay and Pro- 
fessional members and to 
strengthen Lay involvement in 
the Cluster. 


1. 


2. 


Objectives 


Continue utilization of FD consulting 
services. 
Establish a set amount of money in 
local budgets for Financial Develop- 
ment. 
Each Association operating with a 
FD plan and program. 
A Sustaining Membership drive in each 
local Association with successfully 
achieved goal. 
Successful Membership Enrollment in 
each Association. 
A percentage increase in the follow- 
ing categories: 

Sustaining - 15% 

Membership - 15% 

Cash Contributions 10% 

over 1972 actual. 
Each local Association establish an 
Endowment Fund and involve 50% of 
Corporate Board Members in Fund. 


Hold a seminar on possible adminis- 
trative services. 

Involve local Associations in experi- 
mental projects around feasible 
administrative support services. 


Hold a Spring Workshop for Lay and 
Professional around pertinent source 
material. 

Hold a Workshop in the Fall built 
around pertinent source material. 
Election of delegates to Cluster 
Assembly from each Association. 

Lay involvement in on-going program 
of Cluster. 


IV. 


VI. 


VIII. 


To develop and implement a "self 
help" process and program that 
identifies resource and skills of 
member YMCAs that are readily 
available and responsive to needs 
and potentials of member YMCAs. 


To effectively involve all staff 
members in the operation of the 
Cluster. 


To develop and provide for member 
YMCAs a comprehensive system of 
Fiscal Administration and Manage- 
ment for local application and 
utilization to assure successful 
local financial operation. 


To develop and strengthen the 
administration and operation of 
the Cluster, through adequate 
staffing, toward successful 
Cluster functioning and 
achieving Cluster goals. 


Financing: 


~ SF 


Secure in writing the 1973 objectives 
of all member YMCAs to serve as an 
assessment of Association resources 
needed by each YMCA during 1973. 
Establish and make operative a ''Re- 
source Bank" of manpower (Lay and 
professional), Program models, admin- 
istration and organizational models 
represented by member YMCAs. 
Establish and implement a system of 
regular sharing and communicating of 
successful program, management and 
developmental models and experience 
throughout the Cluster. 


Keep all staff informed regarding the 
operation and program of the Cluster. 
Involve staff as members of committees 
and task forces responsible for Cluster 
programs and projects as needed. 
Conduct one (1) total Cluster Staff 
Meeting/Training program. 


Conduct a Fiscal Administrative and 
Management Workshop for General Direc- 
tors and Branch and Unit Executives. 
Maintain an up-to-date resource 
library of pertinent literature and 
materials on YMCA fiscal administration 
and management for member YMCA use. 
Examination by each local Association 
of its Rate and Fee schedule with an 
intent to increase earned income by 
15%. 


To clearly define and document the 
administrative and staffing needs 
for Cluster operation. 

To more effectively relate and inte- 
grate the role and function of the 
Cluster facilitator with that of the 
Consultant to member YMCAs. 

To develop a plan to finance the 
Cluster for 1974. 


Prepare Cluster constitution and by- 


laws. 


The Kentuckiana Cluster acknowledges the fact the annual investment in the 


Cluster in terms of a consultant's time is estimated at some $20,000. 


In order 


to finance the Cluster's operation and the meeting of the 1973 Goals and Objec- 
tives with special emphasis being continued on Financial Development, a budget 


of $15,000 will be required. 


Of this $15,000, a fair proportion from the South- 


east Region would seem to be $10,000, and Region I's share would be $5,000. 


Submitted by: 


Shirley T. Smith, Chairman 
Kentuckiana Cluster 


« BG x 
EXAMPLES OF 1972 PROPOSALS 


Young Men's Christian Association 
TWIN CITIES CLUSTER - VIKING CLUSTER 


PROPOSAL 
PROPOSAL 


It is proposed that the YMCA of Metropolitan Minneapolis will contract with 
the Mid-America Region for 1972 to provide YMCA management and specialized consultant 
services to itself, the St. Paul Area YMCA, and the YMCA's of Duluth, Mankato, Austin, 
and Eau Claire. It is assumed that the YMCA of Metropolitan Minneapolis, in fulfill- 
ing this contract, may provide all of these services from its existing staff or may 
subcontract for certain services from the other YMCA's involved. 


PURPOSE 

The purpose of this proposal is to provide for inter Association planning, 
communication, and action programs which will facilitate an increased contribution 
that will impact on the YMCA's participation in the project as well as strengthen 
their performance in their respective communities. 
SERVICES TO BE PROVIDED BY THE YMCA OF METROPOLITAN MINNEAPOLIS 

The YMCA of Metropolitan Minneapolis will provide the following percentage 
supported general management consultant services to itself and the other partici- 
pating Associations. 


1. Public Relations Counsel 


Consultation on the development of materials, establishing relationships 
with the media, development of an appropriate lay committee, etc. 


2. Manpower Development 


Consultation on personnel recruitment, placement, salary administration, 
training, performance appraisal, and benefits and standards. 


3. Fiscal Management and Business Administration 


Consultation on internal control systems, accounting procedures, budgeting, 
auditing procedures, internal and external and fiscal reporting processes. 


4. Urban Program 


Consultation on human relations and interracial matters, government project 
funding, and urban action programming. 


5. Financial Development 


Consultation on the development of materials, staff and lay training, board 
and community interpretation, proposal writing, etc. 


6. Sustaining Membership 


Consultation on the development of materials, use of systems, training 
programs, etc. 


« 6 = 


7. Organizational Development 


Consultation on program and facility study and planning processes, board 
and lay recruitment and training, lay organization and structure. 


8. Property Management 


Consultation on property maintenance, housekeeping, taxes, insurance 
coverage, facility development, and renovation, etc. 


9. General Program 


Consultation on camp management and programs, family programming, health 
and physical education, program evaluation. 


10. World Service 


Consultation on World Service education and fund raising programs. 


The YMCA of Metropolitan Minneapolis will assign a key General Office Staff 
Executive to serve as the coordinator of the services. He will be responsible for 
maintaining records of services requested and rendered, and the results achieved. 


RELATIONSHIP TO REGION/NATIONAL STRUCTURE 


The specialized staff resources of the Region/National structure will be 
available to the cluster when needed and if they are available. 


PURCHASE OF SPECIALIZED SERVICES 


Participants in the cluster or units outside of the YMCA of Metropolitan 
Minneapolis may wish to individually or as a unit purchase specialized services 
from the YMCA of Metropolitan Minneapolis. Examples of these specialized services 
are: 1) Accounting and Record Keeping; 2) Financial Development Calls; 3) APPD 
Type Training Programs, Development of Public Relations Materials, etc. 


STAFF COORDINATION 


An operating staff group, consisting of the General Executives of the par- 
ticipating Associations, a Region staff member, plus two additional staff members 
from the YMCA of Metropolitan Minneapolis will be developed to monitor the contract 
and plan and implement special events. 


LAY INVOLVEMENT 


A representative group of lay leaders will be developed to provide direc- 
tion to the operating staff group as well as determine those special events in 
which lay leaders should participate. 


EVALUATION 
Action goals and evaluation procedures are to be established from the outset 


so that all Associations may benefit operationally as soon as possible. Among these 
will be: 


1. Degree in which collaboration takes place between Associations and the 
general agency. 


2. Degree to which performance of participating Associations improves. 


3. Degree to which the YMCA of Metropolitan Minneapolis is able to provide 
contact and general consultative services as defined in this proposal. 


4. Cost analysis for services rendered, both direct and in kind. 
Accountability for the administration of this contract will be shared by 
the Executives of the Mid-America Region and the YMCA of Metropolitan Minneapolis. 
Progress and evaluation reports shall be submitted by the YMCA of Metropolitan 
Minneapolis each three months to the Mid-America Region. 


BUDGET 


Project Management 


Staff Coordination Meetings (6) $ 600 
Communication 1,000 
Resource Materials, Reports 1,000 

TOTAL $ 2,600 


I. Financial Development 


A. Financial Development 


Interpretation to Board §& Community $ 1,050 
Development of Materials 1,050 
Staff & Lay Training 1,050 
Proposal Writing 1,050 


B. Sustaining Membership 
Development of Materials, Systems, Methods, Training 1,050 
C. World Service 
Education and Fund Raising 1,050 
TOTAL $ 6,300 


II. Management Development 


Recruitment and Placement $ 1,050 
Salary Administration § Performance Appraisal 1,050 
Training Assessment Designing 1,050 
Standards, Benefits, Personnel Policy 1,050 


TOTAL $ 4,200 


th 


III. Fiscal Management and Business Administration 


Accounting Systems, Chart of Accounts 
Internal Control, Reporting, Budgeting, Cost Procedures 
Property Management 

Maintenance and Housekeeping 

Insurance, Taxes 


TOTAL 
IV. Program Development 
A. Urban Program 
B. General Program 
TOTAL 
V. Organizational Development 
Studies and Planning 
Lay Training and Recruitment 
Structure and Organization 
TOTAL 
VI. Public Relations TOTAL 
TOTAL 


The budget includes manpower, travel, clerical, and all 
other back up services. 


5/18/71 


$ 3,150 
1,050 


1,050 


1,050 


$ 6,300 


$ 2,100 


__ 3,150 


$ 5,250 


$ 1,050 
1,050 


1,050 


$ 3,150 


$ 2,100 


$29,900 


= 6§ = 


July 28, 1972 
TO: Northeast Region Board 


FROM: Tom Cochrane, Chairman 
Hub City Steering Committee 


The Central/Western New York Hub City concept was conceived on October 27, 1971 in 
Rochester, New York, when a meeting presided over by Mr. Lawrence A. Zwicker, Vice 
President of the National Council of YMCAs, was held to discuss such a project. 65 

lay and staff were in attendance. Associations represented were: Urban Group, North- 
east Region, Allegheny County, Batavia, Binghampton, Brockport, Buffalo, Canandagua, 
Corning, Cortland, Elmira, Fredonia, Geneva, Hornell, Jamestown, Little Falls, Lockport, 
Mohawk Valley, Niagara Falls, Olean, Oswego, Rochester, Rome, Syracuse, Watertown, 
Wellsville. This group indicated their unanimous support to a Hub City project. 


It would consist of 47 operating units and represents a total of approximately 
$150,000 paid for General Agency support. 


The Steering Committee consists of: Tom Cochrane, Chairman (Buffalo); Warren Webber, 
Henry Ellis (Rochester); John Kuhfahl (Buffalo); Don Roesler, Joe Stinson (Syracuse) ; 
Bob Cummings (Wellsville); Ed Doubleday (Niagara Falls) ; John Greenover (Chautauqua 
County); Dick Adams (Mohawk Valley); Clarence Vanderzell (Utica); George Davenport 
(Auburn); Don Ayres, Bob Firth (Northeast Region). 


Why Hub City? This is the direction our National organization is taking. It is a 
priority of our Northeast Region. A different approach to the delivery of service 
with general agency support money. 


Rochester would serve as the hub, with Buffalo and Syracuse adding support services. 
Both general and specialists. 


A hub city administrator would be employed (salary range $17 ,000-$23,000) and become 
a member of the Rochester staff and be supervised and report to the General Executive 
of the Rochester Association. 


First year budget of $100,000 is necessary. Financing to come from the Northeast Region 
budget; the 5% flexibility budget of the National Board, or a combination of both. If 
the "flexibility budget'' is to be used, the request must be in by August 1, 1972. A 
further breakdown of the $100,000 is: $45,000 for one administrator and administration- 
consultant services; $20,000 for general consultant services; $35,000 for specialized 
resources. The specialized resource money would be expended as follows: 


Manpower development & training events $ 7,500 
Program development 5,000 
Maintenance 4,500 
Public Relations 3,500 
Financial development 3,500 
Competitive sports 2,500 
Membership 2,000 
Accounting, etc. 2,000 
United Way 2,000 
Steering Committee 1,500 
President's Conference 1,000 

$35,000 


Each unit would be guaranteed a minimum of four (4) visits per year. 


Your interest, consideration and ultimate financial support is greatly appreciated by 
the committee representing the 47 operating units that will benefit from this program. 


x Gh 


TRI-STATE METROPOLITAN CONFERENCE OF YMCAs 


Preliminary 1973 Budget Proposal 


Introduction: 


Tri-State is a very large cluster of YMCAs in a very small geographic area. It 
offers a unique opportunity to experiment and demonstrate ways of effectively 
collaborating and improving services to local Associations. 


This proposal is based on the realization that the majority of Regional services 
to Tri-State Associations are supplied by Tri-State staff. The basic services 
currently provided by Regions for Tri-State are physical education coordinating, 
vacancy mailings and the maintenance of files on prospective new entrants; Career 
Development Programs; coordination of the procedures necessary to certify local 
Associations; and a variety of administrative tasks such as communication with 
the National Board. Since Tri-State does not need to perform these functions, 
with the possible exception of CDP, the National formula for allocation of Per- 
centage Support to Regions does not apply. Some funds from Tri-State need to be 
set aside to help cover the cost of general Region operations. 


What the Figures Generally Represent: 


The proposed 1973 budget calls for the addition of two full-time staff members, one 
clerical staff and an increase in consultation funds. The larger operation means 

a proportionate increase in all budget items. Thus, the total budget would be 
increased from $164,500 in 1972 to $255,510 in 1973. 


The Need for Services: 


Tri-State has gone through a planning process that has resulted in priorities being 
established for 1972-73. Five task forces are currently at work in the areas of 
Corporate Finance, Lay Development and Corporate Planning, Staff Power Development, 
Public Relations and Work with High School Youth. 


In addition to providing ongoing consultant services to the 139 units plus 15 camps 
in Tri-State, our staff is assuming major responsibilities for these priority 
services that tie in directly with National YMCA goals. 


We simply need to enlarge our staff in order to serve all YMCA units more effectively, 
and we need to attract additional staff with expertise in financial management, 
planning, and staff development. Further, we need to continue to draw on the 
expertise of external consultants to assist in specialized areas and to aid in 
providing assistance in experimental and demonstration projects. 


~ $5 « 


TRI-STATE METROPOLITAN CONFERENCE OF YMCAs 


Proposed 1973 Budget 


EXPENSE BUDGET FOR 1972 PROPOSED 1973 
/01 Salaries of Directors $ 77,562 $124,800 
/02 Salaries of Clerical Staff 16,000 24,460 
/03 Fringe Benefits 10,809 15,900 
/04 Travel 17,500 24,000 
/05 Postage and Shipping 3,000 5,000 
/06 Office Supplies and Expense 5,000 5,000 
/07 Telephone and Telegraph 5,000 7,000 
/09 Insurance 850 1,250 
/10 Committee Expense 2,500 3,000 
/11 Miscellaneous 500 500 
/12 Staff Training 600 1,000 
/14 Shared Headquarters Service 4,429 6,000 
/16 Program Materials and Expense 750 1,000 
/17 Consultation Services 18,500 34,000 
/22 Literature and Dues 500 600 
/23 Public Relations 1,000 2,000 

sx nities cat neal 

TOTAL $164,500 $255,510 

scsi sensi ciabatta iti tA ae ene 
6/21/72 


Explanation of Major Increases in Accounts 


/01_ Salaries of Directors 


This increase covers an average 6% increment for the four present staff and the addi- 
tion of two competent full-time staff members who would have expertise in general 
consultation and bring specialized knowledge in financial management, corporate 
planning, and staff development and training. 


= 66. a 
/02 Salaries of Clerical Staff 


This increase covers an average of 6% increment for our two present clerical staff 
and the addition of one full-time person to assist with the additional work load of 
a larger professional staff. 


/17 Consultation Services 


This increase would provide funds for external consultants, would be the source of 
funds for purchasing specialized services from local Associations and for funding 
various experimental or demonstration projects that grow out of the work of the task 
forces. For example, in 1972 we will use the consultation funds for the following 
projects: 


Functional Accounting System Development in Fairfield County 

Coordinated Planning Effort of Nine YMCAs in Westchester County 

Special Collaborative Planning in Ocean County 

A Demonstration of Collaboration in Work with High School Youth in Morris County 

Resource Assistance from such persons as John MacBean in Financial Development 
and Dr. Jack Gibb in Organizational Development 

6. Documentation of Factors Affecting a Successful Corporate Planning Effort on 

Long Island 
7. Racism Workshop in Orange, New Jersey 
8. Planning Specialist in Morris County. 


we WN PE 


Information Relevant to the Distribution 
of National Dollar Resources 


Since Tri-State Funds are allocated by the Northeast Region and Middle Atlantic 
Region, this data seems to be pertinent to the matter of a fair distribution. 


% Support Paid in 1971 by Local YMCAs 


Middle Atlantic Region - $489,140 
Northeast Region - $590,821 
Tri-State Conference - $429,481 


Number of Professional Directors (May, 1971) 


Middle Atlantic Region - 389 
Northeast Region - 482 
Tri-State Conference - 372 


« 67 = 


TRI-STATE METROPOLITAN CONFERENCE OF YMCAs 


NORTHEAST 
1971 
% 
NEW YORK - CONNECTICUT Support 
Kingston, N. Y. $ 4,469 
Middletown, N. Y. 1,470 
Mt. Vernon, N. Y. 256 
Newburgh, N. Y. 4,454 
New Rochelle, N. Y. 7,598 
Port Chester, N. Y. 3,660 
Poughkeepsie, N. Y. 7,313 
Rockland County, N. Y. 3,682 
Rye, N. Y. 35107 
Tarrytown, N. Y. 1,100 
Westchester County, N. Y. 826 
White Plains, N. Y. 14,658 
Yonkers, N. Y. 7,144 
Greater New York City 67,285 
Nassau-Suffolk Counties, N. Y. 28 ,433 
Bridgeport, Conn. 21,000 
Danbury, Conn. (Regional) 1,181 
Darien, Conn. S175 
Greenwich, Conn. 8,026 
New Canaan, Conn. 10,559 
Norwalk, Conn. 8,198 
Stamford, Conn. 3,988 
Westport, Conn. 8,152 
Wilton, Conn. 1,166 


Total $222,898 


» 68 « 


TRI-STATE METROPOLITAN CONFERENCE OF YMCAs 


MIDDLE ATLANTIC 


1971 
% 
NEW JERSEY Support 
Bayonne, N. J. $ 4,746 
Bergen County, N. J. --- 
Camp Speers-Eljabar, N. J. 427 
Central N. J. Camps, N. J. 587 
Eastern Union County, N. J. 7,499 
Fanwood-Scotch Plains, N. J. 5,650 
Freehold, N. J. 2,829 
Frost Valley, N. J. Ls2e2 
Hightstown-East Windsor, N. J. --- 
Hoboken-North Hudson, N. J. 4,613 
Hopewell Valley, N. J. 193 
Hunterdon County, N. J. 5,906 
Jersey City, N. J. 8,054 
Lakeland Hills, N. J. 1,361 
Madison, N. J. 6,500 
Metuchen, N. J. 1,531 
Montclair, N. J. 12,527 
Morris County, N. J. 2,113 
Morristown, N. J. 6,831 
Newark, N. J. 27,209 
North Passaic Valley, N. J. 13,437 
Ocean County-Lakewood, N. J. 2,594 
Oranges, Maplewood, §& West Essex, N. J. 26,959 
Passaic-Clifton-Garfield, N. J. 8,424 
Perth Amboy, N. J. 4,845 
Plainfield, N. J. 1,327 
Princeton-West Windsor, N. J. --- 
Rahway, N. J. 2,837 
Raritan Valley, N. J. 4,782 
Red Bank, N. J. 9,566 
Ridgewood, N. J. 5,276 
Shore Area, N. J. 4,541 
Somerset Hills, N. J. 1,042 
Somerset Valley, N. J. 5,024 
Summit, N. J. 7,000 
Toms River, N. J. --- 
Westfield, N. J. 9,081 
Total $206,583 
RJY/md 


6/21/72 


ee 
PACIFIC REGION, NATIONAL COUNCIL OF YMCAs 


Minutes of Meeting 
Cluster Agreement Task Force 


Hilton Inn, San Francisco, California 
Saturday, July 24, 1971 


IN ATTENDANCE : Norbert W. Dean (Long Beach), Chairman; Allen Ellsworth (Seattle); 

Robert Felder (Long Beach); Prentis C. Hale (Los Angeles); Charles 
Jacobson (Los Angeles); Judge Charles V. Johnson (Seattle); Robert Mayer (Redwood 
City); Paul Steward (San Francisco); and William Stuber (Portland). Staff: Meredith 
Mathews, Charles Van Winkle, and Lee Wilson. 


INVOCATION: Lee Wilson opened the meeting with an invocation. 


OPENING REMARKS: Introductions were made by the Chairman. He said that the purpose 

of the meeting was to formulate and approve proposals for Regional 
Board consideration in September relating to financing Hub-City or Cluster Agreement 
Projects in 1972. 


BACKGROUND : Meredith Mathews explained that the 1972 Pacific Region budget 

was approved by the Regional Finance Task Force on June 25th, and 
sent to the National Council Control Office in New York to meet the July 9th dead- 
line. The budget contained a new expense item - Cluster Agreement Account 31 of 
$35,000 to fund approved Cluster Projects. 


Lee Wilson then developed the history of the Hub-City concept, which began with an 
Urban-Metropolitan Conference in Chicago, of the 64 largest YMCAs in the United 
States. This Conference was initiated by the largest Metropolitan YMCAs to consider 
the critical needs of urban Associations, and to search for more effective ways of 
providing National services to meet such needs. Out of this conference, the Urban 
Group, made up of the 17 largest city YMCAs, staffed by Solon Cousins and supported 
by the National Council through percentage financing, evolved. Three urban-metro- 
politan experimental cluster projects were established -- Massachusetts Bay, Chicago- 
land, and Tri-State (New York, New Jersey and Connecticut). Each was designed to 
provide needed services to all the YMCAs involved. These projects were evaluated by 
the Research and Development Division of the National Board during a 21-month 
experimental period, April 1969 to December, 1970. The results of the evaluation 
were generally positive, with the recommendation that such cluster projects be con- 
tinued, and that other groups of Associations develop projects utilizing the "'learn- 
ings'"' from the three experimental projects. 


Solon Cousins, working with other clusters of YMCAs, developed projects in Louisville, 
Kentucky; developed projects with six large cities in the Southeast Region and in the 
Southeastern Michigan Cluster; developed three projects in the Mid-America Region 

(St. Louis, Twin Cities, Wisconsin); developed cluster projects in Los Angeles County 
and the San Francisco Bay area; and also developed projects in the Mid-Atlantic and 
Northeast Regions. 


Bob Harlan, National YMCA Executive Director, supported the Hub-City concept as 
flexible and effective ways of using percentage dollars to meet the pressing needs 
of local YMCAs, and authorized the Regional Boards to make final decisions for 
funding such projects in the 1972 Regional budgets. 


= FO = 
In the Pacific Region, the following sequence of steps has been taken: 


A) The San Francisco Bay Area Council of YMCAs developed a project with three 
objectives: 


1) Actualize a Bay Area Federation of YMCAs 

2) Develop a common budgeting system capable of presenting a single 
request to UBAC, and 

3) Develop a uniform or single accounting system. 


B) The Executives of the Los Angeles Cluster of YMCAs, in a two-day meeting, 
May 14-15, 1971, at the Glendale YMCA's Camp Fox on Catalina Island, developed 
a proposal to fund a pilot project of centralized purchasing; to employ a 
purchasing agent to manage such collaborative purchasing arrangements for 56 
YMCA operating units in Los Angeles County and for such other YMCAs which can 
benefit from this specialized service. 


C) A meeting was held in Los Angeles on June 10, 1971, of an informal Task Force 
which was chaired by Allen Ellsworth, General Executive of the Seattle YMCA: 


1) To determine cluster agreement guidelines, and 
2) To make recommendations to the Regional Finance Task Force responsible 
for formulating the 1972 Regional budget. 


D) Budget proposals were formulated by the Regional staff on June 14 and 15, 1971, 
in which it was proposed that for 1972, $35,000 be included to fund approved 
‘Cluster Agreement'' projects. (It was proposed that in the Pacific Region, 
the term "Cluster Agreement Projects'' be used instead of "Hub-City Projects.'') 
This amount was made possible by recommending a Regional staff of 10 instead 
of 11 for 1972. The elimination of salary and all related support expenses 
for one staff person made possible a budget of $35,000 for Cluster Agreement 
Projects. 


E) On June 25th, the Regional Finance Task Force approved the 1972 budget, inclu- 
ding the $35,000 Cluster Agreement Project item, and proposed the appointment 
by the Chairman of the Regional Board, of a Cluster Agreement Task Force to: 


1) Review and modify the tentative guidelines set up on June 10th 

2) Review proposed projects, and 

3) Formulate recommendations to the Regional Board meeting in Boise, Idaho, 
in September. This brings us to our task in this meeting. 


CLUSTER AGREEMENT Allen Ellsworth reviewed the guidelines which had been formulated 
G.IDELINES : on June 10th by the informal Task Force. He stated that the Task 
7 Force was called together to consider the whole issue of Cluster 
Agreement Projects and to formulate proposals to the Regional Finance Task Force 
relative to funding such projects in the 1972 Regional budget. He stated that the 
Task Force recommended that the Cluster Agreement Projects of the Los Angeles County 
YMCAs and Bay Area YMCAs be supported in 1972 within the limits of funds available. 
Tentative guidelines and proposals for the administration of the projects were de- 
fined, and some possible options for managing the projects were suggested. 


After extensive discussion and modification, full agreements were reached on the 
guidelines (Note Exhibit 1). 


TASK FORCE By unanimous agreement, the Commission to the Cluster Agreement 
COMMISSION: Task Force was restated for the sake of clarity, in the following 


ae a 


terms: ''The Cluster Agreement Task Force of the Pacific Region is appointed by the 
Chairman of the Regional Board to solicit, evaluate, and recommend to the Regional 


Chalrman OF TNe Keg onal poet ee ones ee eg ea ee a 
Board, project proposals to be funded in 1972, and to review all future proposals." 


SUBMISSION OF The following statement of procedure relative to the submission 
PROJECTS : and management of Cluster Agreement Projects was agreed upon: 


"All proposed Cluster Agreement Projects for the year 1972 shall 


be submitted by December 31, 1971, and for all subsequent years, proposed projects 
must be submitted not later than April 15th in the year preceding the proposed 


erfective date." 


CLUSTER PROJECT OF Robert Moyer presented the San Francisco Bay Area proposal, sup- 

{UE SAN FRANCISCO plemented by remarks by Paul Steward (see Exhibit IT). Discussion 

BAY AREA YMCAs: followed and after considerable analysis, the following action was 
taken unanimously: "That the project of the San Francisco Bay 

Area YMCAs be approved, and that funding for 15 months for $25,000 beginning October 1, 

1971, be recommended to the Regional Board; that alternative staffing services in kind 

be explored; and, because of the urgency for beginning the project soon, that the 


Regional Board request $5,000 from the old Pacific Southwest Area Council Reserves." 


CLUSTER PROJECT OF Bob Felder, General Executive of the Long Beach YMCA, representing 

THE LOS ANGELES the Los Angeles County Cluster of YMCAs, presented the proposal 

COUNTY YMCAs: (See Exhibit III). He stated that the proposal had been formulated 
in a two-day meeting of Los Angeles County YMCAs in May. Charlie 

Jacobson also made comments supporting the proposal. Extensive discussion followed 

after which the following action was taken unanimously: "That the project of the 

Los Angeles Cluster of YMCAs, beginning January 1, 1972, be recommended to the 

Regional Board as a ‘seed money project'; that not to exceed $15,000 be allocated 

for the project to be drawn upon as needed; and that the Regional funds so used will 


hopefully be returned to the Pacific Region within a three-to-five-year period." 


OPTIONAL METHODS Allen Ellsworth called attention to the several optional methods 
OF MANAGEMENT : of managing these projects which had been suggested by the Task 

Group which met on June 10th. It was suggested that these and 
other options be considered as these projects are proposed: 


- Some use of Pacific Southwest Area Reserve funds. 

- Reassignment of some time of the Bay Area General Consultant. 

- Leasing rather than purchasing equipment for the Bay Area Project to reduce 
immediate costs. 

- Return of some or all of the funds advanced by the Region for initiating the 
Los Angeles Cluster of YMCAs' project, out of anticipated savings or profits 
of the project. 

- Redeployment of Regional staff members to manage one or both of these projects. 

- Negotiate with National Purchasing Services of the National Board to help finance 
and/or manage the suggested Los Angeles County Project. 

- Include a portion of the expense of one or both of these projects in the 1971 
operating budget. 


COMMUNICATION: Because of the importance of the actions taken and the interest 

which many other Associations have in the projects and the prece- 
dents being established, members of the Committee felt that there was an urgent need 
to communicate its actions and it was agreed that: 


- Lee Wilson and Prentis Hale will draft Minutes and Revised Guidelines to be sent 
to Cluster Agreement Task Force members for review and modifications, if neces- 
sary, before final drafts are prepared. 


= FO 


- An article will be prepared for the August "Communicator'' explaining the Cluster 
Agreement Projects concept, and the actions to be recommended to the September 
meeting of the Regional Board. For the information of the Task Force members, 


a copy of this article will accompany the minutes of this meeting. 


- Following the Regional Board meeting, a more complete memorandum will be mailed 
to all local Associations; this communication will include Regional Board action 
on the proposals, and the Cluster Agreement Projects Guidelines. 


ADJOURNMENT : The meeting adjourned at 3:15 P.M. 


Recorded by: 


Lee Wilson and Prentis Hale 


EXHIBIT I 
PACIFIC REGION, NATIONAL COUNCIL OF YMCAs 
CLUSTER AGREEMENT PROJECTS 


Guidelines 


Cluster Agreement Projects, supported by Regional resources, represent one of the 
innovative ways of better serving the program and administrative needs of local 
Associations. Such projects have broad implications for the general well being and 
upgrading of all Associations, and the Movement as a whole, and are designed to be 
consistent with National Goals and Regional Objectives. The following Guidelines 


will apply: 

1. Cluster Agreement Projects originate only through collaboration of 
several YMCAs in Clusters. 

2. Projects must be directed to the high priority needs of the units 
involved, and have collaborative commitment (commitment to a project 
is given emphasis by the resources assigned to the project by the 
local Associations involved). 

3. Cluster Agreement grants will be viewed as "seed money'' and the project 
plan must guarantee that after an agreed period of time, the project 
will be supported by the Associations involved. 

4. There must be lay involvement in the planning and operation of the project. 

5. Any Association expressing interest in the project may participate, if 
feasible. 

6. The Cluster Agreement Task Force shall review and monitor each of the 


funded projects to determine its effectiveness, and whether it is 
serving the program and administrative need as intended. The Task 
Force shall report its findings and recommendations to the Regional 
Board annually or more often if necessary. 


= 9% = 
EXHIBIT II 


A PROPOSAL 
FOR A HUB CITY PROJECT OF THE YMCA'S OF THE BAY AREA 


Revised July 20, 1971 


The YMCAs (7) of the San Francisco Bay Area organized into a Council in 1962. The 
objective at that time was to begin intelligent planning and collaboration for the 
five-county area, and to request and receive a single allocation from the United 
Crusade. For reasons external and internal to the YMCAs, these goals were never 
realized. 


In the last nine months, a new energy has been released to achieve these former, and 
now expanded, goals. Repeated meetings of lay and staff as a Council and special 
Task Forces have resulted in agreement to move from a Council to a Federation. 


Recent developments by the United Bay Area Crusade have stimulated and provided a 
sense of urgency to the local Associations to attain identified objectives and also 
provide a testing ground for other YMCAs and United Way relations across the country. 


The Bay Area, therefore, has been included in the Hub City projects which were re- 
ported to the National Council May 21-23, 1971 to be funded from National resources. 


IT IS PROPOSED 


That an amount of $20,000 be allocated by the Pacific Region Board to the Bay Area 
YMCAs as a Hub City project (as reported for 1971 by the National Council, May, 1971) 
to implement the Bay Area Federation, to effectuate unified United Bay Area Crusade 
budget planning and negotiations, and to establish the accounting systems and pro- 
cedures necessary for single fiscal agent performance, and that the project be con- 
sidered for a maximum three-year developmental period with funding not to exceed 
$20,000 each of the subsequent years. 


THE PURPOSE OF THE FEDERATION IS - 


"To increase the effectiveness and influence of YMCAs and YMCA program in the Bay 
Area." 


THE GOALS ARE TO - 


Develop economic and efficient support and management systems. 

Develop a cooperative planning process. 

Secure a broader financial base for support of the YMCAs. 

Present an integrated program of interpretation throughout the Bay Area. 

Design a plan for YMCAs to collaborate and organize programs dealing with 
urbanism. 


wWBRWN Ee 


THE SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES OF THE HUB CITY PROJECT ARE TO - 


1. Actualize the Bay Area Federation in 1971. 

2. In 1971, develop a single request to UBAC with the objective of securing a 
three-year funding base and to receive a single allocation for 1972, 1973, 1974. 

3. To explore the ways of developing a uniform and/or a single accounting system 
related to a single request and allocation from UBAC. 


Other Objectives (not to be implemented immediately) are to - 


4. Develop a unified purchasing system of selected items. 


i GR ue 


S. Examine the possibility of unified camping services. 
6. Examine the possibility of unified youth outreach training programs. 


To facilitate the objectives of the proposal and project, a key element for success 
will be staff support. The following criteria and functions of staff are identified: 


Criteria 1. 
Zi 


3 


Functions Le 


ut 


Extended experience and capability in management and administration 
functions. A senior staff member. 

Capability of dealing with top echelon Association and community 
leaders. 

Extended skill and ability in fiscal control and systems. 

Skill and ability in the planning-Programming-Budgeting System. 


Provide staff work for the Federation. 

Facilitate negotiations with member Associations and Boards for 
adoption of Federation plan. 

Provide staff services for the Bay Area YMCA General Directors 
achieving stated objectives. 

Give leadership in developing unified budget system and presentation. 

Spearhead planning and negotiations with United Bay Area Crusade 
(UBAC) in budget and allocations processes. 

Design training in PPBS (or other system developed) for necessary 
staff. 


FINANCIAL REQUIREMENTS ESTIMATED FOR 1971-72 


Proposed 
Budget 
Executive Salary (% time) $10,000 
Steno Services 2,400* 
Social Security 650 
Health 350 
Retirement 800 
Workmen's Compensation 250 
State §& Federal Unemployment 250 
Office Supplies 500* 
Telephone §& Telegraph 500* 
Postage 600* 
Office Space 600* 
Travel and Expense 800 
Materials, and Supply Systems Development 3,400 
Equipment Use or Lease 3,000 
Consultant Assistance 500 
Total $24,600 

*Local YMCA's Contribution 4,600 


National Support Request $20,000 


« IG 


YMCA OF METROPOLITAN LOS ANGELES  EX?ibit III 


A PROPOSAL TO FUND A PILOT PROJECT TO DEMONSTRATE THE FLEXIBLE USE OF REGIONAL FUNDS 
TO MEET A PARTICULAR NEED OF ASSOCIATIONS IN LOS ANGELES COUNTY: SPECIFICALLY, AN 
AGENT TO MANAGE COLLABORATIVE PURCHASING ARRANGEMENTS ON BEHALF OF THE 56 OPERATING 
UNITS. 

BACKGROUND 


There are 18 independent Associations in Los Angeles County, comprising 56 operating 
units. The General Directors of Los Angeles County have met regularly over many 
years to discuss problems of mutual concern. More recently, the collaboration has 
included lay representatives around such items as United Fund concerns. 


For several years, the Associations have collaborated with the Los Angeles Association 
in purchase of food inventories for their many camps, and in bulk ordering of paper 
and envelopes. The Los Angeles County Associations have been the core group in pro- 
viding financial support for specific YMCA public relations efforts in the radio and 
TV media throughout Southern California, eminating from the Los Angeles YMCA's Public 
Relations Department. Further, on an informal basis, the Los Angeles Association 

has continued to make available to other Associations a wide range of specific staff 
training opportunities. The history of collaboration, therefore, is firmly estab- 
lished in Los Angeles County. 


RATIONALE 


The several independent Associations of Los Angeles County propose that funds from 
the Pacific Region be granted the Los Angeles Association to establish a Purchasing 
Department for the benefit of all units in the County. 


In these days of spiraling inflationary cost for materials and services, it is 
imperative that a program of astute conservation be initiated by each YMCA director 
and his staff without compromising the purposes, intent, or services of the local 
Association. 


Recent test cases have proven that a system of centralized negotiation and/or buying 
would show a cost savings of many thousands of dollars to each of the Associations 
concerned. A purchasing agent would pursue the most reasonable cost and greatest 
saving commensurate with requirements. 


The YMCA of Metropolitan Los Angeles, with accountability for 30 of the 56 operating 
units provides the logical focal point for the establishment of purchasing services 
in behalf of Los Angeles County Associations. The Los Angeles Metropolitan head- 
quarters could meet the space needs of a purchasing agent, and could provide the 
back-up systems through its communications center and accounting services to effi- 
ciently manage the operation. The Los Angeles Director of Operations could provide 
effective line supervision of the purchasing agent in behalf of the cooperating 
units. The Los Angeles County Associations have agreed that, should such a pilot 
project be funded, a high level of purchasing expertise would be employed. Initial 
recommendations suggest a recently retired purchasing agent from some major corporate 


« FG « 


source. A flexible work schedule could be arranged to meet the needs of the indi- 
vidual as well as the participating Associations. Such a plan would minimize salary 
expenditures during the pilot period. If the plan proved fully operational, Lt 
would be the desire of the Los Angeles County Associations to extend the service to 
other Associations in Southern California, and develop a funding formula that would 


reflect the increased magnitude of savings. 
Specific examples of areas in which savings might be effected are: 


Stationery supplies 

Janitorial supplies 

Pool supplies 

Linens, towels, etc.; purchase or rental supply 


PWN e 


5. Equipment purchases 

6. Contract services 

7. Merchandise resale items 

8. Gymnasium and sporting goods 

9. Paint and hardware 

10. Photo equipment sales, service and rentals 
11. Coordination of inter-Association items for sale 


These are but a few of the areas that the General Directors and staffs enter into 
negotiations or have dealings with every day. It is anticipated that centralized 
buying would allow a cost saving of 20% or 30% and higher to be passed on to every 
unit. Not only dollars would be saved but on-time servicing and/or delivery could 
be better controlled. 


Each unit has been losing much of every dollar expended every month by not being able 
to take advantage of quantity buying discounts offered by most distributors of goods 

commonly used every day in every Association. There are also many services that can 

be obtained at a substantial savings. 


Central buying would allow every Association to take advantage of the volume buying 
power of the additional fifty-four units to effect a cost reduction in most facets 
of operation. Examples of savings reflected recently with minimal contacts and 
little persuasion are: 


1. Typewriter ribbons from $1.16 to 60¢ a spool. 

2. Gestetner offered a 95¢ reduction per tube of duplicator ink. 

3. Pacific Mailing Equipment offered a 30% reduction from Pitney-Bowes 
cost for service contracts and has included the availability of 
unlimited calls versus two caJis per year. 

4. Service contracts on IBM typewriters dropped from approximately $44.00 
per year with service calls to $37.00 per year with three preventive 


maintenance calls and unlimited service calls. 


5. Pool chlorine and associated chemicals such as acid wash, etc., 
priced at a 20% saving. 


6. Industrial chemicals for branch maintenance and sanitation supplies 
to be purchased at prices equivalent to supermarket wholesale prices. 


These examples indicate typical savings that can be passed on to each Association. 


«- 7% = 
PROPOSED BUDGET - 1972 


Purchasing Agent $ 6,000 
Clerical Support 6,500 
Payroll Taxes § Fringe Benefits 1,000 
Auto Allowance 500 
Administrative Overhead 1,000 

$15,000 


GESTETNER CORPORATION 
3000 Beverly Boulevard 
Los Angeles, California 90057 


April 20, 1971 
Young Mens Christian Association 
714 W. Olympic Boulevard 
Los Angeles, California 


Attention: Mrs. Martha MacNeil 
Dear Mrs. MacNeil: 


We wish to thank you for the courtesy extended to Mr. Bill Blogg and the writer, when 
we visited your office recently and discussed the arrangements made with you regard- 
ing purchase of supplies as follows: 


1. All supplies purchased by the YMCA in the Los Angeles area will be invoiced at 
maximum quantity discounts, with respect to your order. 


2. All paper purchases will be invoiced at maximum quantity discounts less 5¢, in 
respect to the size of your order. 


3. All repairs charged to the YMCA, to those without contract, between December 17th 
and April 1971 will be credited pending the purchase of contracts. 


4. All of the branches in the metropolitan area will be informed by our representa- 
tives of our free instructional service to all the Gestetner users. 


5. I would also like to confirm our offer to over-haul, free of charge, any old 
Gestetner belonging to the YMCA's which is now ready to be traded in for a new 
machine when a second machine would be required by one of the smaller YMCA 
offices who could not afford the price of a new unit. 


ao TE = 


PACIFIC MAILING EQUIPMENT COMPANY 
1735 West Seventh Street 
Los Angeles, California 90017 


April 26, 1971 


Metropolitan Y.M.C.A. Headquarters 
714 W. Olympic Boulevard 
Los Angeles, California 90015 


Attention: Mrs. Martha McNeil 
Dear Martha, 


Thank you for giving us the service maintenance agreement on your Pitney-Bowes 
mailing machine model 4351. 


As per your request I am pleased to quote our ‘will call" rate for servicing other 
machines in your various branches. The charge for this type of service is $15.30 
per hour which is 10% less than a similar service would cost from Pitney-Bowes. In 
addition, when you are ready, I will be happy to quote you service maintenance agree- 
ment prices on the branches that have existing contracts. 


Also, we offer all types of rebuilt Pitney-Bowes equipment at substantial savings 
and all carry new machine guarantees of one year on parts and 90 days on labor. 


We believe in offering regularly scheduled maintenance to our customers in hopes of 
eliminating costly breakdowns. Our customers have found that they have fewer 
interim calls with this type of service. 


It, I am sure, would be of interest to you to know that in this area we service many 
large firms. To name but a few -- IBM, Pacific Telephone, Automobile Club of South- 
ern California, American Broadcasting Co., Farmers Insurance Group, Broadway-Hale 
Dept. Stores and many others who have been extremely satisfied with our service and 
equipment. 


We would appreciate an opportunity to show you what we can do for the Y.M.C.A. 
branches. 


I will be looking forward to hearing from you. 
Cordially, 


Gordon Weaver 
Sales Manager 


as EXHIBIT IV. 


DRAFT OF COMMUNICATOR ARTICLE 


CLUSTER AGREEMENT PROJECTS: (a communication from Prentis Hale, Chairman of the 
Pacific Region Finance Task Force). When the Presidents and Executives of the 64 
large YMCAs met in Chicago with the Headquarters Staff and Regional Executives in 
October, 1969, all YMCAs followed the action with great interest and with some tre- 
pidation. Out of that meeting was formed the Urban Group made up of the 17 largest 
Associations and staffed by Solon Cousins. Ostensibly the purpose of this Urban 
Group was to study ways of more effectively providing the much needed delivery of 
services from National. Such a plan could require the use of Regional Staff and 
percentage funds. Three Urban-Metropolitan experimental cluster projects were 
established in Boston, Chicago and Tri-State (New York, New Jersey and Connecticut). 
The results of these experiments were carefully monitered and evaluated and the 
effectiveness of this Hub-City concept was generally validated. 


Two such potential cluster projects were identified in 1971 in the Pacific Region: 
a) The San Francisco Bay Area of eight Associations which sought to form a Bay Area 
Federation in order to develop a common budgeting system for presenting a single 
request to the United Bay Area Council, and to develop a uniform accounting system; 
b) The Los Angeles Cluster Project proposed to develop a ‘seed money'' project of 
centralized purchasing for Ys in Southern California, and other Ys where feasible. 
Both of these Pilot Projects developed budgets and requested funds from the Regional 
budget for 1972. After thorough discussion, the Regional Budget Task Force decided 
to recommend to the Regional Board that for 1972 there be a Regional Staff of ten 
instead of eleven, and that the salary and related expense funds thus made available 
be used to fund Cluster Agreement Projects in 1972. 


Mr. Bill Schneider, Regional Board Chairman, at the request of the Regional Finance 
Task Force at its meeting on June 25, 1971, named Norb Dean, Long Beach, as Chairman 
of the Cluster Agreement Projects Committee. This Committee met on July 24, 1971, 

to analyze, evaluate and approve these two pilot projects, prepare appropriate guide- 
lines and to formulate a recommendation for action by the Regional Board in September. 
Following the board meeting, the “Guidelines,'' as modified and approved by the 
Regional Board, will be sent to each Association together with an invitation for 
additional Cluster projects as they are identified. Such projects must meet the 
Guidelines in order that the Cluster Agreement Projects Committee may evaluate and 
recommend on a consistent basis. 


Cluster Agreement Projects, supported by Regional resources, represent new and inno- 
vative ways of attempting to serve more effectively the program and administrative 
needs of local Associations. Such projects have broad implications for the general 
well being and upgrading of all Associations, and the Movement as a whole, and are 
designed to be consistent with National Goals and Regional Objectives. 


Based on the above general statement, please express any reactions you have to the 
"Cluster Agreements Projects" concept to a Regional Board member or to Meredith 
Mathews, Regional Executive, before the Regional Board Meeting, September 17-18. 


- 80 - 


PROPOSAL OF PACIFIC REGION HUB-CITY TASK 
GROUP TO THE REGIONAL BUDGET COMMITTEE 


On June 10, an Ad-Hoc Task Force was called together to consider issues in connection 
with Hub-City projects, and to formulate specific proposals related to the 1972 
Pacific Region Budget. In attendance were the following: Allen Ellsworth, Seattle, 
Chairman; Paul Steward, San Francisco; Glenn Allen, Los Angeles; Bob Goff, Santa 
Barbara; and Jim West, San Diego. Attending as resource participants were: Meredith 
Mathews, Lee Wilson, Dwile Heggem, Dave Fenn, Larry Pelesh and Fred Cords. Guide- 
lines governing Hub-City projects were formulated as well as a specific proposal for 
the Regional Budget Committee. 


Guidelines 


Hub-City pilot projects, supported by Regional resources, represent new and innova- 
tive ways of better serving the program and administrative needs of local Associations. 
Such projects have broad implications for the general well being and upgrading of 

all Associations, and the Movement as a whole, and are designed to be consistent with 
National Goals and Regional Objectives. The following guidelines will apply: 


1. Hub-City projects originate only through collaboration of several YMCAs in 
clusters; 


2. Projects must be directed to the high priority needs of the units involved, 
and have collaborative commitment (commitment to a project is given emphasis 
by the resources assigned to the project by the local Associations involved) ; 


3. Hub-City grants will be viewed as "seed money" and the project plan must 
guarantee that after an agreed period of time, the project will be supported 
by the Associations involved; 

4. There must be lay involvement in the planning and operation of the project; 


5. Any Association expressing interest in the project may participate, if feasible; 


6. Any Associations in the project cluster must be paying monthly their full 
fair share of percentage support. 


Implementation 


1. Regional Hub-City lay-staff task force will be appointed by the chairman of 
the Regional Board to evaluate all Hub-city projects conducted in 1972 and 
review 1973 project proposals. 


2. The Hub-City Regional Task Force will make its proposal directly to the 
Regional Committee responsible for approving the Regional Budget; 


3. Projects are evaluated each year and may be renewed annually. 
PROPOSAL 


The Task Force on Hub-City Projects endorses and recommends to the 1972 Budget Task 
Force of the Pacific Region the Hub-City Cluster projects of the Bay Area and Los 
Angeles County Clusters (the L.A. County Cluster Project enlarged to include all 


Associations interested in participating, if feasible) for their consideration and 


« @1 = 


encourage finding financial assistance within the limits of funds available to 
enhance these projects. 


Identified as possible options to be considered as ways of managing these projects 
were the following: 


Lis 


Ds 


Some use of Pacific Southwest Area reserve funds. 
Reassignment of some time of the Bay Area General Consultant. 


Leasing rather than purchasing equipment for the Bay Area Project to reduce 
immediate costs. 


Expecting from the savings or profits in the Los Angeles County Project a 
remuneration of some portion of the funds advanced by the Region for initiating 
the project. 


Redeployment of Regional staff members to manage one or both of these projects. 


Negotiate with National Purchasing Services of the National Board to help 
finance and/or manage the suggested L.A. County Project. 


Include a portion of the expense of one or both of these projects in the 1971 
operating budget. 


The Task Force further recommends that funds be included in the 1972 Region budget, 
as in the past two years, for special projects of other Associations which may be 
requested or submitted. 


Also, that the guidelines as herewith attached be proposed to the Region Board for 
use in determining projects to receive financial support in the 1973 budget and 
procedures be established for their implementation. 


LSW: dy 


= 82 = 
A PROFILE OF HUB-CITY ACTIVITY 


THE MASSACHUSETTS BAY YMCA COLLABORATIVE PROJECT 
14 Somerset Street 
Boston, Mass. 02108 


1972 ANNUAL REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN 


In 1969 a small group of Executives met several times to discuss the possibility of 
independent YMCA's working together on projects of mutual interest. Out of this 
meeting the idea of a Massachusetts Bay YMCA Collaborative Project was born. This 
small group called together all the Executives in the Massachusetts Bay area and 
they in turn organized a Steering Committee to manage the Project. The first Chair- 
man was Wayne T. Evans, Executive Director of the Brockton Association, and it fell 
on his shoulders to begin to organize for collaboration. The National Council of 
YMCA's recognized this as a worthy experiment and provided $15,000 for the first 
eighteen months of our operation. From the beginning the State Executive Committee 
of YMCA's of Massachusetts and Rhode Island has been interested in the Project, pro- 
viding $10,000 for the original Project fund and $5,000 each year since to assist 
with the continuation of this collaboration. 


EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP 


Two years ago the Northeast Region of YMCA's recognized that if we were to be success- 
ful, we should have an Executive Director for the Project and assigned Jack Appleton 
to this position. The Steering Committee now meets monthly to discuss business from 
September through June with special meetings during the summer. The Executives 

Group meets four times a year with the Steering Committee to hear reports, determine 
needs, and make suggestions. 


PROGRAM DIRECTORS COUNCIL 


At our Annual Meeting last year I reported that the Steering Committee was assisting 
in the formation of a Program Directors Council to focus on program needs and inter- 
Association activities within the Collaborative Project. I am pleased to announce 
that the Program Council under the leadership of its Chairman, Ken Butler of Malden, 
has been very active and most supportive of the idea of collaboration. They have 
developed Swim Team Competitions, Aquatic Certification Institutes, Junior Leadership 
Training, Camping Workshops, Floor Hockey Leagues, Indian Guide Workshops, School 
Vacation Jamborees, Physical Fitness Training Clinics, Education Workshops and Gym- 
nastic Championships. Most of the YMCA's in the Project have been a part of these 
programs. This has been a most significant forward step in our Project. 


HUB-CITY SERVICES 


During the past year the Steering Committee, with the approval of the Executives 
Group, shared with the Greater Boston YMCA to develop a proposal whereby specialized 
services of the staff of the Greater Boston YMCA would be made available to all 
member Associations in the Mass. Bay Project. This proposal was presented to the 
Northeast Region YMCA through the offices of Lou Hall, the Regional Director. As a 
result, our Project has received $35,000 from the National Association to reimburse 
the Greater Boston YMCA for the cost of these additional services. The services now 
available to each member Association, on request, and at no charge, are as follows: 


Personnel and Training - Financial Development - Management Services - Preventive 
and On-going Maintenance - Public Relations - Program Development - Organizational 
Development and Planning 


= £3 « 


This service became available January 1, 1972 and we are just beginning to use these 
specialists supplied by the Greater Boston YMCA. Later, during the year, we will 
evaluate this project. However, in the meantime, we have found that even during this 
short time, some Associations have made use of the service and feel that it has been 
most worthwhile. As a result, we are presently developing a proposal for renewal of 
Regional financial support for continuance of such specialized services through 1973. 
It is another example of what we can do and the strengths that we can have when we 
join together collaboratively. 


CAREER DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM 


A year ago, I also announced that we were trying to develop a Career Development Pro- 
gram for new YMCA professionals so that they could receive their training and become 
certified without having to travel all over the country to do this. Since that time, 
a committee of representatives from Mass. Bay and the two other clusters of YMCA's in 
Massachusetts and Rhode Island, with Alden Eberly as Chairman, has worked out an 
arrangement with the National Personnel Development Board and has designed a Career 
Development Program right within our area. The first ten-day session was held last 
Fall and it was most successful and well received. The second session of this Career 
Development Program is being held in April of this year and the third session next 
Fall. Already plans are being projected for a second series of courses in the near 
future. 


PRIORITIES FOR 1972 


As we enter into another year of collaboration, the Steering Committee has determined 
that their goals or priorities for 1972 should be as follows: 


Further Development of Physical Fitness Programs 

Continuing our Career Development Program 

The Encouragement of Participation by all Associations in Project Equality 
Collaboration 

Joint Approach to our United Community Service and United Fund Needs 

Training in Financial Management 

Training for Professional Competence 

Unemployment Compensation Services 


Our success in these areas will be very much determined by the staff and lay leader- 
ship of our member Associations. 


We feel that there is great strength in numbers. After working together for four 
years, we have experienced some failures as well as success, but the need for col- 
laboration seems even stronger today and with your help we will strengthen our 
independent Associations as they strive to serve the Massachusetts Bay community. 


GEORGE H. RAMSDEN, JR., CHAIRMAN 
MASSACHUSETTS BAY YMCA COLLABORATIVE PROJECT 


APRIL 5, 1972 


- 84 - 


SIX-MONTH SUMMARY 


Starting January 1, 1972, the Greater Boston Y.M.C.A. began providing services to 
YMCA's in the Massachusetts Bay region in seven specifically defined areas: 


- Personnel and Training 

- Financial Development 

- Management Services 

- Maintenance Consultation 

- Public Relations 

- Program Development 

- Organization Development and Planning 


There was general agreement that a systematic way of monitoring the delivery of 
services was important and so the attached two reporting documents were developed 
for that purpose. Minimum basic standards were developed in order to provide for 
a standard method of accounting for services delivered. These included: 


1. Reporting of professional staff time in half-day segments - 3 to 4 hours 
of time being recorded as one half-day segment. 


2. Including all supportive clerical and office services and supplies in the 
recording of professional staff time. 


3. Establishing a cost factor of $75 per half-day segment, which would be 
used in determining the $ value of services delivered. 


The following summary for the first six months of this year has been developed based 
on reports filed to date either on services in progress or services completed to 
YMCA's in the Mass. Bay Cluster: 


Management Services 69 half-day units $ 5,175 
Financial Development Services 24 half-day units 1,800 
Program and Personnel Services 49 half-day units 3,675 
Public Relations Services 54 half-day units 4,050 
General Consultation Services 20 half-day units 1,500 
Maintenance Consultation Services _31 half-day units Zsa20 


TOTAL 247 half-day units $18,525 


« aes 
DELIVERY OF SERVICES 
CONTRACT COMPLETION REPORT 


1. OPERATING UNIT 2. DATE 


cea t 
2 Contract completed on: | 


en ac se ate np psp thurman 


Actual time spent: (Use half-day segments for reporting this figure.) 


5. Direct expense: 


—_——— See 


6. Comments and observations on completed contract: (Limit to this space; attac 
separate documents as needed, including any reports, etc. that were part of 
the services delivered.) 


7. Staff member accountable for contract: 


fy iinaamenmieeees  ... «| 


| 
| 


el 


GREATER BOSTON YMCA 


1 - 72 


« 86 < 
DELIVERY OF SERVICES DESCRIPTION 


1. OPERATING UNIT 2. DATE 


i 


3. Contract Description: (Limit to this space; attach supporting documents it 
needed.) 


nn ne 


Scere aan sccm peg esac eae amet tacsiec DeAS 
LEE LAAT TLL 


iM Staff member with whom contract description was discussed: 
—_—<—<—<——— 
1 


i5. Process Information: (Indicate any exceptional requirements such as other 
staff to be involved, outside resources needed, etc.) 


{ 
| 6. Projected time schedule for completion: | 


17, Estimated time requirements: (Use half-day segments in determining this 
i figure.) | 


eS Na 


En 


is. Staff member accountable for contract. | 
{ 


GREATER BOSTON YMCA 


i= 2 


« 87 « 


CHICAGOLAND 
TO: Dunbar Reed, Executive, Region I 
FROM: William Kuntz 
RE: Delivery of Service Contract 


As per your request, this is a partial report of the past year of the Chicagoland 
Cluster for the Chicago Delivery of Services Contract. 


This report is compiled primarily from information supplied from executives of the 
16 Chicagoland YMCA's and staff of the YMCA of Metropolitan Chicago in response to 
my request for information on: 


1) Services requested; 2) Services provided or not responded to; and 3) What 
difference has this arrangement made. 


This is a partial report, for there is no complete documentation possible due to the 
"open system established a year ago in this service arrangement, which established 
the ground rules as follows: 


1. The skill and technical know how of the Chicago YMCA's, Region Staff and 
Chicagoland YMCA's are to be made available wherever needed in the system. 


2. Bill Kuntz, as coordinator of the Delivery of Services Contract, will be 
called within two ground rules: 


a. When a need exists, and the person does not know who or how to 
contact the needed resource, I am to be called. 


b. If the needed resource has agreed to help, but has not functioned, 
I am to be informed to intervene and see that it happens. 


I will report in four sections, as follows: 
I. A specific listing of services requested and responded to. 
II. Experiences within the cluster arrangement. 
III. Summary of observations and recommendations. 
IV. Attachments of letters of response to my request for information. 
I. A SPECIFIC LISTING OF SERVICES REQUESTED AND RESPONDED TO 
A. PROGRAM SERVICES 


1. Consultation with a suburban branch YMCA Board of Directors on youth 
program. 


2. Consultation with branch staff on program goals. 
3. Consultation with total unit staff on Outreach Program approaches. 
4. Consultation with unit staff on Outreach and day camp programs. 


5. Consultation with Executive Committee of Board on Youth Program 
approaches. 


=< 88 < 
6. Directed a youth-adult seminar for a unit. 


7. Provided summer residence camp experience for 130 youths from two 
other Chicagoland Y's. 


8. Forty families served at Chicago YMCA family Camp Nawakwa. 
9. Four Chicagoland Y's included 9 participants in the week-end seminar 
on "June-70 Conference'' - A training and goal setting experience on 


the thrust of youth program for the 70's. 


10. Six Chicagoland Y's enrolled with 27 staff and laymen participants in 
week-end training seminars in new thrusts in physical education. 


ll. Five Chicagoland Y's participated in a problem-solving seminar on 
YMCA's health and businessmen's clubs. 


12. Considerable business communications on membership fees, health club 
fees and building fund pledge requirements. 


13. Four Chicagoland Y's brought youth participants to the drag race day 
at U. S. 30 Drag Strip. 


14. Consultation on use of YMCA program and facilities by the black community. 


15. Consultation on possible public funding of program with five Chicagoland 
YMCA units. 


16. Consultation with two Chicagoland YMCA units for College Work Study 
students. 


17. Consultation, interviews and recommending steps to take to involve black 
families in the YMCA unit. 


18. Specialist consultation on physical educational techniques and program 
development with four Chicagoland "Y" units. 


19. Assistance in proposal writing and development of a "Head Start" program. 
20. Black-white consultation and confrontation with community leaders. 
21. Consultation with community agency groups on black-white problems. 
22. Supply head bands, "“Y'" pins and various program supplies. 
B. PERSONNEL, TRAINING AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT 
1. Assistance with personnel recruitment with seven Chicagoland units. 


2. Supply personnel policies, job classifications position, descriptions, 
and wage and salary administration plans to various units. 


3. Training and organization development consultation with both staff and 
lay groups from one to two days each with 12 Chicagoland units. 


4. Consultation with Board of Directors on personnel issues with five 
Chicagoland units. 


= 89 = 
5. Contract negotiations for personnel with two units. 


6. Personnel evaluations with four units. 


7. Staff team directed lay-community leader seminar on objectives setting 
with two units. 


8. Four executives enrolled in training seminar on Management by Objectives. 


9. Two-day consultation and training of new financial development staff 
member. 


10. Change of health and life insurance contracts to incorporate nine Chicago- 
land units into the Chicago contract. The combined savings to partici- 
pants and the "Y's" in this broader contract for the first year is $16,000. 


11. Change of Credit Union By-Laws and inclusions of two Chicagoland units 
in the Chicago Credit Union. 


12. Required staff work provided in developing basis for new National Urban 
Group Health Insurance program soon to be completed. 


13. Staff assessment and consultation on personal and organizational goal 
setting with nine Chicagoland units. 


14. Consultation and intervention in staff conflict and staff and lay con- 
flict for problem solving with seven units. 


15. A weekly listing of job descriptions for all job vacancies within 
Chicagoland units attached to the Staff Bulletin (Hotline). 


16. Six staff members are participating in the Chicagoland APPD. 
FISCAL MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION 
1. Consultation relating to insurance coverage and insurance programs. 


2. Consultation on establishing fiscal management procedure for a federally 
funded program. 


3. Staff work for Chicago Purchasing Services to become the National 
purchasing arm for Region I. 


4. Consultation on Internal Revenue Service tax laws. 

5. Consultation on financial systems. 

6. Consultation on business procedures. 

7. Survey of property considered for purchase. 

8. Consultation on Community Fund, United Fund relationship. 
FINANCIAL DEVELOPMENT 


1. Six staff from five units are enrolled in the six session training 
seminar on campaigning starting October 14th. 


5. 


6. 


» 80 = 


Six Chicagoland units joined in the Metropolitan "Y" Special Gifts 
Campaign. 


Consultation with staff group, board group or lay committee on Financial 
Development with six Chicagoland units. 


Six participants in two-day financial seminar. 
Four participants in a Deferred Annuity seminar. 


Feasibility study conducted to determine size of a capital campaign goal. 


PUBLIC RELATIONS AND COMMUNICATIONS 


Ls 


Twenty phone consultations with executives and other staff members 
around public relations and communication problems. 


Two-man team conducted training session on communications and public 
relations for a Chicagoland unit. 


Weekly Hotline distribution (the Chicago Staff Bulletin) to all Chicago- 
land "Y's" provides: 


a. Opportunity to receive and give information regarding programs, 
events, meetings. 


b. Announcement of staff training opportunities. 
c. Opportunity to participate in special events. 


d. Opportunity to participate in "bargain price" or give-away equipment 
(the last two items were free coin-operated games). 


Information and referrals (both phone and letter inquiries) are handled 
through the Chicago Information Service. Over 50 responses were made 
on behalf of Chicagoland units in the first nine months. 


Materials supplied in the way of reprints of speeches or to supply the 
"Y'"' Symbol Book developed by Chicago. 


SERVICES TO CHICAGO 


One of the purposes of the Delivery of Services Idea was to find ways to 
improve the delivery of a support system to the 53 operational units of the 
YMCA of Metropolitan Chicago, as well as the 22 operating units of the other 
Chicagoland "Y's." 


Ls 


Tom Bennett has been retained as an ongoing consultant for organization 
development. 


A plan for organization development has been formulated. 


Some team building and critical interfaces between operating groups 
has occurred. 


Dr. Charles Hughes of Texas Instruments has conducted training programs 
in Management by Objectives for all staff executives. 


4 §] » 
5. Beginning steps of installing a MBO procedures has been initiated. 
6. A new goal statement and set of objectives has been determined. 


7. Region I staff members participated as consultants in an executive staff 
conference as an important part of this goal setting program. Quintin 
Guerin of Internal Revenue Service and Solon Cousins served as confer- 
ence consultants. 


8. Region I staff will be utilized as an integral part of the continuing 
development of this support system. 


EXPERIENCES IN CLUSTER MEETINGS 


Cluster meetings have been held on a monthly basis throughout the past year. 
Primarily, these have been meetings of executives, although one meeting involved 
lay Board Chairman and a second meeting involved other key staff members. A 
special meeting involved a consultation with John Root on the Chicago YMCA Goals 
and Objectives setting procedure. 


Cluster meetings have been convened with agenda planning done by the cluster 
consultant and cluster chairman and executive committee. 


Both Dr. Thomas Bennett and Dr. Thomas Wicks of TRW have been utilized as con- 
sultants in cluster meetings. 


The cluster adopted a loosely defined proposal about a year ago which listed 
three thrusts. 


A. Find a more effective way of inter-Association work. 
B. Effective ways of sharing general agency services. 
C. Work at solving major urban problems as they relate to the YMCA's. 


It also gave tacit approval to eleven specific objectives, such as identifying 
areas for collaboration and coordination; provided a power base to effect ex- 
ternal restrictive policies and procedures, to share experiences, operational 
issues and emerging concerns, etc. 


A broad assortment of issues appeared on the meeting agendas during the year, 
receiving from minimal to maximum attention. These items include: 


Report on financial development plans. 

Report on 50 Cities Conference. 

Report on Region I Board Meeting and National Board Executive Committee. 
Lay involvement in Chicagoland project. 

Evaluation of Chicagoland project. 

Personnel services available to Chicagoland "Y's." 
Health Insurance plan. 

Report of sub-committee on the groups behavior. 
Understanding professional and lay roles. 

Develop our executive skills. 

Exercise in executive negotiation skills. 

George Williams College field work proposal. 
Fellowship hour. 


. 


rAUHTOAMDMOASS 


= 
— 
. 


Itt. 


- 92 - 


In the last 90 days, assessments and recommendations for cluster functioning 
have been developed. These were developed because there was common agreement 
that a more effective working system of cluster meetings was required. The 
pay off for the informal approach to meetings and agendas was lacking for the 
time investment of the executives. 


One concept recommended forming lay and staff teams of four to six laymen, staff 
and youth from each unit. In this planning, the cluster is seen as a loosely 
structured Task Force of these unit teams, using cluster resources to develop 
models for work on the needs, planning and development of their local "Y's." 


A second concept suggests a role of a regional general consultant with meetings 
for full-time professional staff and laymen; suggests a plan for cooperative 
efforts in the area of sharing skills, material and knowledge, as well as bene- 
fits of combined purchasing, accounting, fund raising, etc. 


It recommends freedom for Associations with like interest for combined efforts 
and recommends eight groupings of Chicagoland YMCA units on a closer geographical 
basis, including outer-city and suburban Chicago units, as well as independent 
YMCA's. 


A third proposal supported by the Executive Committee as a proposal for work in 
1970-71 listed eight objectives, recommended four Task Force Groups be formed 
and composed of executives, other staff and lay participants, and recommended a 
procedure for these Task Forces to function. 


To date, none of these concepts have been adopted. A questionnaire was distri- 
buted to executives, seeking support for these concepts. Concepts with most 
support were: 


1. Smaller cluster and group meetings. 
2. Continue the "open system." 
3. Provide a general consultant for the cluster. 
SUMMARY OF OBSERVATIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS: 
My assessments of the past year of the Cluster are as follows: 
POSITIVE 
A. There is increased formal and informal communications between individuals 
and units, both within and among the independent YMCA's, as well as cross 


communications between Chicago units and independent units. 


B. Individual participation in a wide variety of training and development oppor- 
tunities have been provided. 


C. Matching of needs and resources has improved, such as pooling of purchasing 
power in insurance programs. 


D. Extensive consultation on goals and objectives setting and problem solving 
has developed. 


E. There is general support for maintaining the delivery of services arrangement 
and “open system," with need to improve cluster meeting functioning. 


« 93. - 
NEGATIVE 


A. The cluster has been primarily executives only involved. 


B. Extreme difficulty exists in leadership and direction setting for efficient 
work. 


C. Staff changes in cluster consultant both in personnel and in job responsi- 
bilities. 


D. The repressive atmosphere for voluntary agencies in an extremely difficult 
financial climate makes voluntary Association work difficult, when the prime 
need is keep my ship afloat. 


E. Past experiences, personal styles of people, and resistance to collaborative 
effort for fear of losing identity and power. 


WK: £1 


10/13/70 


LAKE REGION YMCA 
95 N. Grant Street 
Crystal Lake, Illinois 60014 


October 6, 1970 
Mx. William Kuntz 
YMCA of Metropolitan Chicago 
19 South LaSalle Street 
hicago, Illinois 60603 


Dear Bill: 


My purpose in this letter is to respond to your request about services requested and 
received from the Chicago Delivery of service contract. 


During the past fifteen months the Lake Region YMCA has requested service in several 
ways. We requested and received a feasibility study to determine the size of a Capital 
Campaign Goal. We were invited to participate in a Metropolitan Finance Campaign, 

but we chose not to participate due to our own Capital needs. You were invited to 
attend our last Annual Meeting and a later Board meeting. Your attendance at these 
meetings was helpful. Dunbar Reed attended our Capital Campaign kick-off last May 
providing an essential challenge to the adults who were present. 


All of our requests for service have been met so far. 


In the near future we will be asking for help in establishing a new membership plan, 
in public relations as plans are developed for the opening of a new building, and in 
a cost study of the new building. Also information about capital fund contributions 
which are required when joining a YMCA with a new building will be requested. 


I would feel that the monthly meetings and subsequent communications have helped our 
awareness of the total YMCA movement in the Metropolitan Chicago area. At these 
meetings I have met the Executives of neighboring YMCA's. 


fs I conclude this letter, I feel that some requests for service have been forgotten 
and that there will be additional requests for service, but letters must end. I hope 
the above information has been helpful. 

Sincerely, 


James C. Zoellick, Executive Director 


Mr. 


- 94 - 


THE B. R. RYALL YMCA 
65 Newton Avenue 
Glen Ellyn, Illinois 60137 


October 8, 1970 


William Kuntz 


YMCA of Metropolitan Chicago 
19 South LaSAlle Street 
Chicago, Illinois 60603 


Dear Bill: 


Tn answer to your request concerning the kinds of services we have requested this 
year from the Chicago YMCA, and our evaluation of them - let me make the following 


comments : 
1) We have made about a dozen telephone requests where we have called for advice 
over the phone, and these have all been handled promptly and courteously. 
2) We have availed ourselves of consultative service on a limited number of 
occasions: 

a) John Grotberg made one visitation to an Executive Committee meeting, and 
talked with me a couple of times on the telephone concerning financial 
development. 

b) Bruce Cole spent the better part of a day looking over our area and talking 
with me about funding of special projects. 

c) Jim Gleason spent an afternoon and evening interviewing persons and touring 
our black community, and met with our staff and several black leaders. 
Just before he left the YMCA, he followed up this visit with a very con- 
cise report recommending steps we might take to involve black families in 
our YMCA. 

d) Bob Freeman has visited with us on several occasions and has been most 
helpful. 

e) You, yourself, Bill visited us also on about three occasions. 

While we have been quite pleased with the consultation we have received from 

these visits, our staff feels that there were not any other men available whom 

we thought had the answers to problems that we have had. In other words, our 
use of the Chicago YMCA personnel has been limited because of our evaluation 
of their capabilities. 

Let me add that we have used personnel from other YMCAs within and out of the 

Cluster, although this too, has been on a limited basis. 

3) In one specific area we have needed service and it has not been available. 


This is in the area of public relations. I have called Ruth Scheele and she 
has informed me that they do not have anyone available to help with laying out 
brochures, or anything in the line of this type of public relations. There- 


fore, we have had to pay for it locally. 


You ask in your last question, ‘What difference has it made to have this Chicagoland 
Y relationship over the last fifteen months?" Yvonne Rish and I have thought about 


- 95 - 


this seriously, and it is our conclusion that it has not made much difference at all. 
Even if we had paid each of the men who came here for a day, or part of a day, $100 
for each visit, the total amount would not come anywhere near the percentage of our 
fair-share support that comes back to the Chicago YMCA. Frankly, we would just as 
soon keep all of that fair-share support and hire our own consultants when needed. 
Looking back over the last fifteen months, we probably would have been glad to pay 
Jim Gleason $200 for the service he rendered and the same goes for Bob Freeman. We 
probably would not have had Bruce Cole come out if we were paying each time, but 
because it was already paid for, we had him come. 


I would have to say that under the old Illinois area system, YMCAs such as B.R. Ryall 
did not feel that they received enough consultation or service for their fair-share. 
Under the new Cluster set-up we have received slightly more but still not $4,000 
worth (which I calculate is quite close to the amount of our Fair Share that comes 
back to Chicago). 


I do not know the answer to this dilemma any more than you do but I know that many 

of the Executives in the YMCAs in this Cluster around Chicago would, no doubt, love 
to have the four, five, or six thousand dollars that goes into Chicago for their own 
budgets. I suppose it depends on your local situation and what position your Associ- 
ation finds itself. I am sure Jim Furrie got all of his money's worth this past year. 


My proposal, of course, for the future was included in the comments that I made to 
you concerning the future of our Cluster. The basis of those comments was that we 
do away with the experiment that has been carried on for the last fifteen months and 
that the YMCAs in this Cluster be assigned a general consultant, and that Chicago go 
its own way - with the YMCAs in our Cluster still being allowed to call upon the 
Chicago services but with Chicago receiving a much smaller subsidy. 


I do not envy you the job of trying to make sense out of all this organizational 
renewal that is going on. 


Sincerely, 


David C. Sheldon 
Executive Director 


« 96 « 


YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION 
215 North Ottawa Street 
Joliet, Illinois 60431 


October 6, 1970 
Mr. William Kuntz 
YMCA of hietropolitan Chicago 
19 S. LaSalle Street 
Chicago, Illinois 60603 


Dear Bill: 


In general the Joliet Association has been pleased with the contractual arrangement 
with the Chicago YMCA. Specifically, I will try to answer your questions. 


1-A. We have had assistance in the planning of our ‘Design for the 70s Seminar’ 
and there will be participation from Chicago and the Region in this seminar. 


1-B. A three day visit by John Pittenger and financial assistance. However, I 
believe the financial assistance came direct from the Region. 


1-C. We have requested help with various personnel items. This has been the most 
non productive of any of our relationships. 


1-D. Assistance in the development of the Head Start program at our Community Branch. 
This was most helpful and productive. 


1-E. The attendance of our Youth Directors at a youth serving seminar. 
1-F. Assistance in the planning for our extension program. 
is We have had a response to every request we have made. 


Bs We have asked for help and assistance when we felt it was needed. I imagine 
there are many services available that we have not used. Perhaps we will in 
the future. 


4. None to my knowledge. However, the effectiveness of personnel assistance 
leaves much to be desired. 


5. The Joliet Association has always had a good relationship with the Chicago 
Association. I believe this has reaffirmed this close working relationship. 


The above are just some of my thoughts and recollections on this experiment. As I 
stated before, in general I have been pleased with it. I have some questions on 
our monthly meeting of Chicagoland Executives. To me most of the meetings, although 
enjoyable, have been rather a waste of time. 


Cordially, 


Clarence V. Lenz 
Executive Director 


- 97 ~- 


YMCA OF METROPOLITAN CHICAGO 
19 South LaSalle Street 
Chicago, Illinois 60603 


April 14, 1971 
TO: Dunbar Reed, Executive, Region I 


FROM: William Kuntz 
RE: Delivery of Service Arrangement 


As per your request, this is a partial report of the past six months - October, 1970 
-- March, 1971 of the Chicagoland Cluster for the Chicago Delivery of Services Con- 
tract. 


This again is a partial report, for there is no complete documentation possible, due 
to the "open system" established a year and a half ago in this service arrangement. 


However, during this past six month period, there are ongoing specific service de- 
velopments that I want to report, as well as major new developments and examples of 
service requests. 


More and more the cluster is moving toward developing and utilizing collaborative 
service systems, rather than one shot requests -- accounting and payroll systems, 
program development collaboration, management systems of goal setting and performance 
appraisal, mass purchasing systems, personnel, training and employee benefit systems, 
etc. 


MAJOR NEW DEVELOPMENTS 


1. Complete accounting and data processing services, including payroll, being pro- 
vided by Chicago's computer capability to seven Chicagoland Y's since January 1, 
1971. 


2. Chicagoland Y's physical education staff and laymen now included in the Metro- 
politan Physical Education Society and Sports Council activity. 


3. Major consultation with Elgin, North Suburban, Kankakee, Evanston, Waukegan, and 
Aurora from 1 to 3 days each in performance appraisal and goal setting processes. 


4. Consultation with the Corporate Management Staff groups of Chicago in performance 
appraisal and goal setting conferences, involving 24 different sessions. 


5. Survey and report workshop on mass purchasing power potential of combining 
Chicagoland Y's purchasing volume, and opening specific purchasing contracts 
to all Chicagoland Y's as first step. 


6. Workshop on Personnel and Manpower Development for Chicagoland Executives and 
key staff covering personnel policy, management by objectives and performance 
appraisal, wage and salary administration, training and fringe benefit programs. 


7. Interpretation and enrollment of Chicagoland Y's in the new Urban Group Health 
and Life insurance program. (Chicago staff furnishes staff direction to this 
Urban Group insurance program nationwide -- including interpretation, plan 
analysis for local YMCAs, meetings, in 41 of the 63 Urban Group cities in the 
last four months with staff and lay groups - consuming over 30% of George 
Georgandas' time.) 


oy 9B. we 


8. Interpretation workshop and plan developed for Chicagoland's participation in Tax 
Sheltered Annuity Plan. 


ONGOING AND CONTINUING SERVICES 
1. Consultation on where to get specific technical help. 
2. Staff support to monthly cluster meetings, workshops, seminars, etc. 


3. Participation in training events - APPD, Financial Development, Physical 
Education skill clinics, etc. 


4. Participation in Chicago Credit Union. 
5. Job vacancy listings in staff bulletin (HOTLINE). 
6. Information and referrals through Chicago Information Service. 


7. Providing claim processing for all Region I Y's in Health Insurance plan, etc., 
etc. 


EXAMPLES OF SPECIFIC REQUESTS RESPONDED TO: 

1. Legal Interpretation for Proviso ''Y." 

2. Real Estate appraisal for Berwyn-Cicero. 

3. Consultation on residence operation - Rockford. 


4. Consultant team for leadership of board, staff and community leadership 
goal-setting seminar - Jolict. 


5. Consultation on drug abuse training - Elgin. 
6. Cost study - Naperville. 
7, Architectural study of feasibility, specifications and cost estimates for 


building renovation and handball courts addition - Rockford. 


William Kuntz 


- OF « 
NORTHEAST OHIO 


MEMORANDUM 


TO: General Executives of the Northeast Ohio Service 
Area and The Tri-County Plus One Associations 


FROM: William H. Parkhurst 
Cleveland, Ohio 


SUBJECT: APPD - CDP 


A committee of the Northeast Ohio Service Areas has been meeting in consultation 
with the National Personnel Development office in an attempt to design an APPD (CDP) 
program which would be offered to our Northeast Ohio Associations and others who 
might wish to participate. 


As our basic document, we used the modified Experimental APPD Program for Hub Cities. 
(A copy of which is enclosed.) Our committee agreed that the modified program was 
more suitable to our local Association needs than previous APPD Programs. Course 
content, over-all cost, length of time away from the job, and tie-in with the local 
YMCA, all seemed far better in the experimental program. 


Starting from that basis, we agreed to outline in detail the first phase, get it 
approved by the National Personnel Department Office, submit it to the potential 
users and then, if the need and acceptance were there, to go ahead and offer the 
first phase. Phases 2 and 3 will be outlined in more detail once we are certain 
that it will be feasible to offer them. 


At present, our committee has agreed on the tentative content of Phase I (copy en- 

losed), and has received authorization to offer our proposed course with the 
participants receiving full credit for one Unit of APPD. Our next step is to 
secure your feed-back so that we can incorporate it into our final design. We 
also need a commitment in terms of the number of men you might enroll. No site 
aas been selected, but the program will be held in Northeast Ohio. 


Please drop me a note as quickly as possible with your recommendations and a poten- 
tial number of participants. It has been suggested that we may all need to meet as 
a group to work on the final design. I am in favor of such a meeting if there 
seems to be a considerable amount of adjustment to make on our tentative content. 

I will be in touch as soon as I have word back from most of the Associations. 
Thanks for your help. 


Reply to: William H. Parkhurst 
Assistant General Secretary 
YMCA of Cleveland 
2200 Prospect Avenue 
Cleveland, Ohio 44115 


- 100 - 
MEMORANDUM 


TO: Local Associations of the Great Lakes Region 
FROM: Bill Parkhurst, Cleveland, Ohio 


RE: APPD-CDP 


We have been hard at work for almost a year in an attempt to design an APPD Program 
for the Northeast Ohio Cluster which would conform to the National Personnel Develop- 
ment Board's experimental APPD project for Hub Cities and which would do the follow- 
ing: 


Reduce the cost of APPD 

Not take men away from the job for unusually long periods of time. 

Have a much greater back home applicability. 

Provide trainees with a solid background of orientation to the YMCA Movement 


PWD 


Such a plan has been developed and has been adapted for experimental use throughout 
the Region. The total program will be in three phases and provide for the required 
30 days' training over a two-year period. 


The purpose of this memo is to announce some of the specifics of Phase I and to begin 
preliminary registration. 


Phase I consists of three parts: A) Local Orientation; B) 3-Day Cluster 
Orientation Session; C) 6-Day Inter-Cluster Seminar. 


Local Orientation is a prerequisite of the program and must be completed 
before the 3-day orientation. (Form Enclosed) 


Cluster Orientation will be held in the Detroit, Cleveland, and Dayton areas 
on October 25, 26, and 27. (Dayton - October 26, 27, and 28.) 


Inter-Cluster Seminar will be held the week of December 5th at Bergamo Center 
in Dayton, Ohio. 


Final fees, specific times, etc. are yet to come. At this point, we would appreciate 
preliminary enrollments for those on your staff who are in need of this program (form 
enclosed). Those enrolled should be completing six months on the job at the end of 
1971, and must be able to attend the Cluster Orientation and the Inter-Cluster 
Seminar. 


Phase II will be offered in 1972 and Phase III in early 1973. Those enrolled in 
these courses will receive full APPD credit. 


- 101 - 
PHASE I (One Complete APPD Unit) 


A. Orientation in the Local YMCA 


1. Each local Association will be required to hold orientation sessions for 
potential participants. 


2. Content of this local orientation will be recommended by our committee, 
with certain areas that must be covered. 


3. Each participant in Phase I must have evidence of having completed the local 
orientation. A form indicating completion of the local orientation, by whom, 
when it was held, and an evaluation of worth and effectiveness, must be de- 
signed for this purpose. 


4. Tentative content of local orientation sessions: 


a. Job Description 

b. Development of goals by supervisor and trainee based on Association goals 
and objectives 

c. Standards of performance developed, including plan for appraisal by 
result 

d. Association policies and practices: 


Personnel Policy 

Fringe benefits 

Business procedures 

Organization of the local Y (Lay/Staff) 

How the local Y is financed 

. Local Association projects in which all staff must participate, 
i.e. Membership Drives, Camp, World Service 


Aun PWN Pe 


e. Introduction to the community 


1. Data collection by trainee on community needs or other related project 
2. Personal introductions to local community contacts 


f. Visitation to other Association (s) (If needed in smaller Association, 
for a broader perspective) 

g. Guidelines for working with lay volunteers, Committees and Boards 

h. Introduction to Literature and Resources of the YMCA. 


B. Orientation in Clusters 


This session is designed to be held on three consecutive days. (Not during a 
week-end.) Participants would be trainees from the Northeast Ohio Cluster and 
others who may want to participate. It will introduce the trainee to the broader 
scope of the YMCA, and will give trainees a chance to begin a process of need 
assessment based on his specific job as it is now understood. This session might 
also include some specific skill sharing, i.e. Physical Directors together, Youth 
Directors, etc. 


Tentative Content 
1. Organization development concept introduced 


2. Overview of the YMCA Career Development Program 
3. Evaluation and testing of local orientation 


- 102 - 


Learning need assessment session 

Organization of Regional, National and International YMCA and their 
relationship to local Associations 

6. Regional and National Programs 

7. Regional and National Goals 

8. History of the YMCA 

9. The supervisor's role with volunteer and part-time staff 

10. Working with committees 

ll. Program Planning 

12. Skills of documenting 

13. Personal Work and Time Organization 

14. The role of the YMCA today: Urban Crisis, Black-White, Drug Scene, etc. 

15. The supervisory relationship between professionals 

16. Skill Sharing. 


C. Regional or Interregional Seminar 


This third part of Phase I would be similar to the present APPD sessions. Train- 
ees would need to be on the job a minimum of six months to be eligible for this 
session. Depending on numbers involved, it could be made up of just the original 
orientation cluster group, or perhaps in combination with other such groups. 
Tentative course content is as follows: 


1. Skills needed for the variety of roles a Y professional is expected to fulfill: 


Change agent skills 

Group's process skills 

Working with Boards and Committees 
Training volunteers 

Organization development skills 

Personal and organizational goal setting 
Management skills 

Dealing with conflict. 


. 


sre moandaewn 


2. Concepts of adult learning 


a. Next steps in learning for the trainee 
b. Resources available (People, material, places) 


3. Understanding and assessing of self. 

This seminar would be 5-7 days in length. Leadership for this and for the cluster 
orientation session would be largely from Y Professionals within the cluster. An 
outside consultant would no doubt be needed for the seminar session. 


A tentative time schedule might be: 


A 


September - October - Local Orientation 
November - Cluster Orientation 
January - February Seminar 
¢ 
May 24, 1971 


WHP/km 


- 103 - 
SOUTHWEST REGIONAL YMCA METROPOLITAN SIX 


SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES, DECISIONS AND PLANS 


1969 -- 1971 
September, 1971 


In February of 1969, at the initiation of Rodney Hibner, Southwest Regional YMCA 
Executive, there was held a meeting of the Executive Directors of the six Metropolitan 
YMCAs in the Region: Dallas, Fort Worth, Houston, Tulsa, Oklahoma City and San 
Antonio. Out of this meeting there began a system of close collaboration between 
these Associations which has grown into a strong organization now receiving special 
funding from the Regional Budget, with meetings each quarter and other special pro- 
jects. 


The first meeting in 1969 was concerned with changes taking place in the National 
YMCA structure, the proposed meeting of the 64 Metropolitan Associations in Chicago 
in September of that year and possible changes in percentage financing for National 
support. 


Following the Chicago meeting of the 64 Metros, the representatives of the Southwest 
Metros met again to examine their own position in relation to organizations of Metro 
YMCA's which seemed to be emerging at that time. It was then agreed that these six 

Associations had much in common and that it would be to their advantage to develop a 
system of closer collaboration. One of the first projects was a proposed financial 

development workshop which Bob Janes, of San Antonio, was asked to direct. 


The Dallas YMCA became a member of the Urban Group, which was an organization of the 
17 large YMCAs. With this relationship, the Dallas Association could provide a link 
for communication between The Urban Group and Metro 6. 


PLANNING TEAM DEVELOPS PURPOSE AND ORGANIZATIONAL PATTERN 


In January, 1970, a Planning Team was assigned the task of examining the purpose, 
management and needs of the Metropolitan Group. This Team made its report to the 
total group on April 7, 1970, which was adopted. The purpose of the organization as 
identified in this report was ‘Develop and maximize the use of collective capabilities 
of the six Southwest Metropolitan Associations for more effective management and in- 
fluencing societal changes. Within this purpose is the assumption that existing and 
developing capabilities of the Metro-Six would be available to other Associations who 
desire to work in a collaborative system for their own improvement.'' (See EXHIBIT A) 


LEADERSHIP TEAM APPOINTED 
As recommended in the plan, a Leadership Team was appointed: John T. Kaempf, Fort 
Worth, Chairman; Clifford Smith, Dallas; Carl Cooper, Houston; and Phil Knight, 
Oklahoma City. 


The expense for four meetings each year for the Leadership Team and consultants for 
group meetings has been funded by the Southwest Regional YMCA, since the project has 
met two of the Regional Guidelines: 1) to support temporary systems, and 2) to fund 
outside consultants. The six Associations agreed to pool expenses for 3 staff persons 
in attendance at each of the quarterly meetings. 


Under the guidance of the Leadership Team, a regular schedule of four meetings per 
year was established, purpose and goals came into focus, projects were initiated, and 
a pattern for meetings evolved. Meetings were programmed to cover 1/Information 
sharing, 2/Issues and 3/A special projects or concerns. (See EXHIBIT B) 


» 168 = 
MAJOR ISSUES DEALT WITH BY METRO SIX 


The percentage financing of the National YMCA was one of the first issues before the 
Metro/6 Group. The position taken was that an even distribution of financing by all 
Associations was favored in 1971 and leveled at 3%. This position was carried to 
the National Council and Southwest delegates urged to support it. 


Much correspondence and telephone conferencing was held around the concern with APPD 
Training. The group made clear its position to the National officials in this regard 
and influenced changes resulting in appropriate training by the Metro 6 in collab- 
oration with the Regional staff which will qualify persons for Senior Director recog- 
nition. (See EXHIBIT C) 


A survey was made of Association concerns with United Funds. These were identified 
as Budgeting process, Reserves, Capital Funds, Chart of Accounts, Employee insurance 
and funding of National Health Agencies. Further consideration of this issue was 
delayed until the September, 1971 meeting. 


SPECIAL PROJECTS AND ACTION 


Service needs among the 6 Associations were surveyed and a list of priorities com- 
piled. (See EXHIBIT D) The priorities were grouped and were the basis for organizing 
task teams and in determining other projects. 


Three sessions were scheduled for training in annual planning and corporate goal set- 
ting. Mr. Earl Weed of Texas Instruments was a very valuable help as Consultant in 
these areas. 


In collaboration with the Southwest Region, a Financial Development Seminar was con- 
ducted using the resources of the YMCA National Financial Services Bureau, Kennedy 
Sinclaire, Inc. and Taylor Reedy. This workshop was designed for Branch Executives 
and Metropolitan Staff. On the first day, laymen from each Association attended. 
The Regional organization covered the expenses of the leadership for this project. 


A second Financial Development workshop under sponsorship of the new Financial Develop- 
ment Task Team was held in June, 1971, as a follow-up on the one held in October, 1970, 
using the resources of John MacBean for the purpose of dealing more specifically with 
getting a development program started. Metro Staff and laymen attended. 


A presentation by Mr. Thomas Rowe at the June, 1971, meeting outlined the advantages 
and costs of the Urban Group Insurance Plan. The follow-up on pursuing this insurance 
plan was left to each Association. 


THREE TASK TEAMS ARE ESTABLISHED 


To further pursue work on priorities and achievement of the group's purpose, three 
Task Teams were established and they began working together at the June 9-10, 1971 
meeting of the Metro/6. These Teams are: 


1. Financial Development 
2. Fiscal Management 
3. Management Development 


The Financial Development Team was responsible for the workshop in June, 1971, with 
John MacBean. A second project of this team will be to invite executives from a 
selected number of smaller Associations to a meeting in September, 1971, to discuss 
a Financial Development Program. 


- 105 - 
SPECIAL FUNDING FOR METRO 6 IN 1971-'72 


An important undertaking in the Spring of 1971 was to build a case for and negotiate 
funding for Metro 6 under the proposal to provide funding through regional budgets 
for Hub-cities and cluster groups. 


It was the contention of the Metro 6 that during the past two years, a collaborative 
effort had been demonstrated which would develop the capabilities of the 6 Associations 
and could lead toward a service to all YMCAs in the Region. Funding through this 
concept would be of a greater service if made available to the Metro/6 as a group 
rather than to one Association. 


A program and budget was developed and presented first to the National officials and 
later, after revisions, to the Southwest Region Board. (See EXHIBIT E) The Executive 
Committee approved the request for funding as follows: 


1971 $ 7,400 
1972 $17,750 


These funds will be used for projects of each of the Task Teams and the Leadership 
Team. 


SENSITIVITY TO METRO SIX RELATIONSHIP WITH ALL ASSOCIATIONS 


The staff members of the Metro 6 have been sensitive to its relationship and the 
feelings of professionals in other Associations in the Region. They have not wanted 
an attitude of the "Big Six'' to develop. It has been necessary, however, in these 
first two years for a spirit of collaboration and trust to develop along with our 
own expertise for the group to be more effective in providing services. 


When the executive of the Midland Association expressed an interest in working with 
the group, a response was made and he has attended several meetings. Plans are being 
made to keep all Associations informed of work in progress. Ten executives from 
smaller Associations were invited to attend the September, 1971 meeting and especially 
to be a part of the presentation of the Financial Development Task Group. These 
Associations were: Little Rock, Wichita Falls, Austin, Abilene, Amarillo, Waco, 
Beaumont, Corpus Christi, El Paso and Midland. In these beginning ways and others 
that will develop, the Metro 6 is beginning to reach out to all Associations in the 
Region. 


- 106 - 
KENTUCKIANA CLUSTER OF YMCA'S 


(Region I; Southeast Region) 


Meeting of Executives of Cluster June 2, 1972 
10:00 A.M. Louisville, Kentucky 
Notes of Meeting 


Those in attendance were: Shirley Smith, Lexington, Ky.; Monroe Monday, Frankfort, Ky.; 
Eddie Edwards, Evansville, Ind.; Clark Baker, Davies County, Ind.; Gene Bell, Vincennes, 
Ind.; Reube Joiner, Louisville, Ky.; and Al Rogers, Cluster Consultant. 


1. An opening prayer was given by Clark Baker. 
2. Review of notes of meeting, May 5, 1972. 


- Reminder that Financial Development Check List is to be completed and turned in 
to Shirley Smith. 


- The New Staff Orientation Institute scheduled for May 30-31, 1972 was cancelled 
due to insufficient registration. There was agreement that the late scheduling 
of this Institute was the primary cause for cancellation and it was determined 
that this event be scheduled earlier in the spring for 1973. 


- Review of portion of meeting dealing with discussion with Dunbar Reed, Region I 
Executive, and Richard MacMorran, Southeast Region Executive, regarding Cluster 
plans and financing for 1973. 


3. Cluster Report to Southeast Region Board of Directors. 


- Shirley Smith distributed copies of his report on Cluster development and program 
that was presented to the Southeast Region Board of Directors at its meeting of 
May 20, 1972. 


- Concern was expressed regarding the apparent lack of response and reaction of 
the Southeast Region Board to this report on the work of the Cluster. Probably 
the lack of an opportunity for this report to be discussed by small groups of 
Board members during the meeting contributed to the haste with which the report 
was handled. 


- There was agreement that more response and interest of the Board to the work of 
the Cluster was expected. It is possible that some suggestions could be given 
to the President that might include opportunities and discussion at the time 
that the Cluster has another opportunity to report. 


- A copy of the report of the Cluster to the Southeast Region Board of Directors 
accompanies the official copy of these notes. 


4. Cluster Goals and Objectives for 1973. 


- Shirley Smith distributed copies of a draft of 1973 Objectives in support of 
the 1972-1975 goals of the Cluster. This work was a follow-up of the May 5, 
1972 meeting when it was agreed that further work on goal and objective de- 
velopment would be done for review at this meeting. 


- The Objectives for 1973 were reviewed and certain modifications were agreed upon. 
A copy of the 1972-1975 goals and the objectives for 1973 accompanies these notes. 


5. 


- 107 - 


- Regarding the financing of the Cluster project for 1973, Shirley Smith shared a 


letter, May 30, 1972, from Richard MacMorran, Southeast Region Executive. This 
letter referred to a reduction in Regional budget for 1973 in the amount of 
$26,647.00 from the 1972 budget, in accordance with the formula being used to 
allocate percentage finance funds to the several regions and to headquarters. 
In addition to sharing the financial facts of 1973 with the Cluster, MacMorran's 
purpose in writing the letter was to urge the Cluster to continue its work in 
developing long-range plans and preparing its request for funds for 1973. Fur- 
ther, upon approval by the Regional Executive Committee and Board, the funds 
for the Kentuckiana Cluster would be included within the total budget request 
of the Southeast Region. This Cluster budget request is to be submitted by the 
end of June to allow full processing of the 1973 budget by August 1, 1972. 


Reube Joiner shared a memorandum from Solon Cousins of the Urban Group regarding 
Hub-City developments for 1973. This memo urged the Cluster to move to prepare 
its budget for 1973, building upon its 1972 experience. Further, it clarified 
that such request would be processed through Regional Boards, with July 1 being 
the deadline for the 1973 request. 


Following considerable discussion, there was agreement that Shirley Smith, 
Cluster Chairman, should seek a meeting of him and Al Rogers with Mrs. Robert W. 
Huff, Region Chairman, and Richard MacMorran, Region Executive, for the purpose 
of discussing Cluster financing for 1973, along with the possible ways in which 
the Cluster and member Associations might be of assistance to the Region Board 
as it pursues its budget request for 1973, particularly in light of the possible 
reductions in the budget allocation. (Shirley Smith immediately contacted 
Richard MacMorran and tentatively set a luncheon meeting with Mrs. Huff, Dick 
MacMorran and Al Rogers for Friday, June 9, 1972 in Atlanta, Ga.) 


Following detailed review and discussion of goals and objectives for 1973, action 
was taken to accept the 1973 Objectives and assignments to develop targets in 
support of such objectives, such targets to be completed by July 15, 1972 were 
made and accepted as follows: 


- Goal I, Financial Development, Shirley Smith. 
Goal II, Administrative Support Services, Reube Joiner. 
Goal III, Cluster Assembly and Lay Involvement, Gene Bell. 
Goal IV, Self-Help and Resource Bank Development, Clark Baker. 
Goal V, Staff Involvement, Monroe Monday. 
Goal VI, Fiscal Management, Eddie Edwards. 
Goal VII, Cluster Organization and Administration, Al Rogers. 


Agreement was also reached that for 1973 the following requests would be made: 


- $15,000 for continuation of Financial Development Plan §& Program for Cluster/ 
Member-YMCA's 

- $5,000 - from Region I 

- $10,000 from Southeast Region 

- Continuation of Cluster "Facilitator" of member YMCA's consultant through half- 
time staff services from Southeast Region. 


Financial Development, Reports of Developments and Progress. 


- John Grotberg's consultation at Frankfort, Kentucky resulted in excellent and 
good reactions from leadership, and generally a good experience. 


- 108 - 


- Capital campaign feasibility study to be conducted by the Daviess County, 
Indiana YMCA in July, 1972. 


- Financial Development consultation by John Grotberg to be scheduled in 
Louisville, Kentucky sometime during end of June, 1972. 


- Financial Development consultation scheduled as follows: 


- Evansville, Indiana, June 15, 16, 1972. 
- Somerset, Kentucky, June 6-7, 1972. 
- Owensboro, Kentucky,June 8-9, 1972. 


Request for one-page descriptions of local YMCA's for distribution to all member 
YMCA's. Descriptions prepared and ready for distribution from Louisville, Ky., 
and Daviess County, Indiana. All of the other Executives urged to prepare and 
send to Al Rogers for distribution. 


Cluster programs and schedule for remainder of 1972: Agreement on the following 
programs and dates: 


- Salary Administration Workshop (Earl Armstrong, leader) in Louisville, Ky., on 
October 19, 1972. This primarily for all professional staff of Louisville YMCA. 
All Cluster General Directors urged to attend for their own orientation and 
possible follow-up locally. 


- Membership and Sustaining Workshop for General Directors, Branch Executives, and 
Campaign Lay leadership (Gene Bell, Chairman) in Louisville, Ky., October 6, 1972. 


- Endowment Funds Development Workshop (John MacBean, leader) in Lexington, Ky., 
July 20-21, 1972. (Cluster to finance 50% of $100 registration fee for all 
Cluster General Directors.) 


- Regional Public Relations and Marketing Workshop (National P.R. and Metro P.R. 
leadership), Nashville, Tenn., September 11, 1972. 


- Regional Financial Development Workshop (sponsored by Kentuckiana Cluster) , 
Nashville, Tenn., November 30 - December 2, 1972. 


Review of Southeast Region Objectives § Achievement Measures or Indices for 1973. 
Al Rogers distributed copies of the Operating Objectives and Achievement Measures 
of the Region for 1973 for review and discussion. The purpose of this review was 
to secure some reaction from Cluster Executives regarding the relationship of 
these Unit Objectives and Achievement Measures to their respective YMCA's and the 
implications for job segments of the Cluster consultant, who also serves as the 
consultant for the local YMCA's involved. The process through which these Objec- 
tives and Achievement Measures had been developed through involvement of local 
YMCA leadership, Board and Committee leadership and Regional Staff input was re- 
viewed. Al Rogers emphasized the importance of this kind of consideration to 
assure a high degree of understanding and congruency between the needs and direc- 
tions of the Cluster and its member YMCA's and the job segments and standards of 
performance to which he is committed and held accountable for through the Regional 
organization and, in particular, the Regional Executive, Richard MacMorran. 


- This review proved interesting and helpful and there was agreement that the job 
segments and performance standards developed by Al as a result of this review 
and in consultation with MacMorran would be reviewed again with the Cluster 
Executives as they are completed. 


- 109 - 
9. "Al's Five.''’ Al briefly reviewed the following items: 


- "Operation: Contact Point" - a special public relation thrust from Craig 
Altschul, Director of Public Relations. This is an attempt to get our ‘own 
house in order" by attacking the most crucial public relations "contact points" 
of our local, National-Regional YMCA centers. 


- Memo on Economic Controls phase II, March 15 and May 22, 1972 from National 
Board of YMCA's. 


- Request from Harold L. Gibbs, National Financial Development Executive, on 
Up-Dating of Innovative Practices in Fund Raising. 


- Memo from Region I regarding the following of IRS Form 2950 and Form 4848. 


- Announcement and need for registration for Day Camp Staff Training Institute, 
June 7-9, 1972, at Camp Piomingo, Louisville, Kentucky. 


- Distribution of brochure on Projects and Proposals for 1972 by the National 
Board of YMCA's and Management Guidelines for Project Funding by the National 
Board. 


- Memo from Dunbar Reed, Region I, regarding Dunbar's leadership and responsibility 
in the United Nations Conference on Human Environment, June 5-16, 1972, in 
Stockholm, Sweden. 


- Brochure and information from Jerald Panas Incorporated, Financial Development 
Organization. 


- Memo from National Board of YMCA's regarding the Federal Requirement Effective 
in 1972 on Uniform Financial Reporting, from the United Way of America. 


- The creation of a new Public Relations Resource Bank by the fifteen full-time 
professional Public Relations Directors of the large metropolitan YMCA's, 
through National P. R. Office at 291. 


- Memo from John R. Fisher, regarding the suspension of National Registration of 
high school age ciubs. 


- Special brochure from John L. MacBean regarding Endowment Workshop, July 20-21, 
1972, at Lexington, Kentucky. All Cluster General Directors urged to attend 
and to share learnings and experience within the Cluster. 


10. The meeting was adjourned at approximately 4:00 P.M. 
Notes prepared by Al Rogers. 


ACR/he 
6/8/72 


Distribution: General Directors of Kentuckiana Cluster 
Southeast Region Staff 
Dunbar Reed 
Dave Stubbs 
James ''Bo'' Hardy 
Solon Cousins 


- 110 - 
AGENDA 
MID-AMERICA REGION YMCA 
Wisconsin Group Executives 


Room 205 
MILWAUKEE YMCA 


10:00 a.m. 
Tuesday, May 11, 1971 


Ivan Springstead, Chairman, Presiding 


Invocation 

Minutes Review and Reporting. ... . . . Max W. Clowers 
“UPDATE'' 2... 6 ee ee ee ee ee William A, McAllister 
HUB-CITY SERVICES DELIVERY ... .. . . Solon Cousins 


(Experiences and Possibilities) 


12:15 p.m. - LUNCHEON. ....... . . Room 224 


What Do We Want in 1972? ........ All 


2:00 p.m. - Adjournment 


- 11 - 
MINUTES 


MID-AMERICA REGION YMCA 
Wisconsin Group Executives 


Room 211 
Milwaukee YMCA 


Wednesday, January 20, 1971 


Present: Ivan Springstead, Beloit, Chairman, presiding; Robert Brunken, 
Appleton; M. Brutus Baker and Jacqueline Janders, Milwaukee; Gary 
Unruh, Lake Geneva; Richard Meunier, Oconomowoc; Charles Wise, 
Milwaukee; Don Lohmann, Sheboygan; George Haddad, Racine; Cal Hessert, 
Wausau; Harley Van Akkeren and Max W. Clowers, Regional Consultants. 


Absent: Robert Brunelle, Beaver Dam; K. E. Holland, Fond du Lac; George F. 
Murray, Green Bay; Albert J. Jaggard, Janesville; Douglas McNeel , 
La Crosse; William L. Schultz, Madison: William Riggle, Manitowoc; 
Paul Bradley, Oshkosh: Harold Frank, Waukesha. 


Invocation: Harley Van Akkeren 


MARK IT Following a brief review of Minutes, Ivan Springstead commented on 
SEMINAR REPORT the excellent experience we had in the MARK II SEMINAR with John 

MacBean and expressed group appreciation for the leadership and help 
given to it by Milwaukee. Both Milwaukee and Beloit have received stock gifts in- 
spired by the seminar. Brutus Baker reported that Milwaukee has a 24-day contract 
with MacBean, which reduces his per diem to $300. Members of the Wisconsin Group may 
contact MacBean directly if they want a day of his time. He may then, with agreement 
by Milwaukee, be able to use one or more of his contracted days in service to that 
Wisconsin Group Association, requesting him as a member of the group. Under this 
plan, the Association would receive the $300 per diem rate as over against the normal 
$500 per diem rate. 


ORGANIZATIONAL Max Clowers presented a proposed organizational plan for the WISCONSIN 
PLAN GROUP of the Mid-America Region of YMCA's. Discussion seemed to 
reveal the following: 


- There is a proved readiness on the part of the Executives of the 
Wisconsin Group of Associations to cooperate with each other. 


- There is concern that we do not insist upon formalizing or struc- 
turing the group now. 


- There is a feeling that we have identified some mutual concerns 
and the group is ready to move on them. 


- There was general approval that the Executive Group meet as neces- 
sary to clear on joint undertakings and to involve other staff and 
lay resources as needed to accomplish its work. 


- It was felt that letters of approval from the Executives of the 
Wisconsin Group Associations would be enough to release our 
energies to move ahead. 


- 112 - 


ACTION It was moved (Haddad-Lohmann) and passed that Max Clowers secure letters 
from the Wisconsin Group Executives indicating their willingness to 


work together on matters of common concern and interest in Wisconsin. 


MINI-ASSEMBLY Layman Cal Hessert of Wausau, who had agreed to chair the Wisconsin 
PLANS Mini-Assembly following the Group's request in December, then spoke to 

his concern for the Assembly planning. He pointed out that the one-day 
or two-day Mini-Assembly was conceived at the Regional Assembly in Kansas City to give 
local YMCA's in geographical clusters a chance to meet around their own concerns, 
Regional concerns and National concerns in an interim year when no total Regional 
Assembly would be held. He stressed the fact that, while these several Mini-Assem- 
blies across the Region were not constitutionally empowered to act on matters of 
Regional or National Council Business, nevertheless, their voices would be heard as 
they discussed YMCA Movement concerns. 


The point was made that our own concerns here in Wisconsin could take precedence over 
Regional and National concerns, but that we were being asked to give some attention 

to the proposals of our Regional By-Laws Committee, the proposed National Constitutional 
changes and to Regional effectiveness. (The percentage finance issue also mentioned 
has been dropped at the National Board and Council level for 1971.) Cal stressed that 
he hoped we could plan for a balanced program between the prescribed items and our own 
concerns. 


WOMEN's. Max Clowers and Bob Brunken reported on a date-conflict which had 
PROGRAM arisen when the Fox River Valley Women's Group had chosen April 23-24 
_ for a meeting with Dr. Joyce Brothers at the Pioneer Inn, Oshkosh. 
They had already contracted for Dr. Brothers and arranged for meetings Friday night 
and all day Saturday at the Inn. Discussion brought out the following: 


- The dates were good and the Pioneer Inn a very attractive meeting 
place. 


- Both the Women's Group and the Mini-Assembly might "win" if we could 
work out a plan to combine our meetings in some way for promotional 
advantages. 


- The Executive Group is concerned about women's involvement in our 
Associations, particularly among the Fox River Valley "Y's" where 
the program is strong and women professionals are employed. 


- It is not important that the two groups meet together this year. 


- The Mini-Assembly should be kept separate, but the men could join 
their wives on Friday evening at the Pioneer Inn. Brunken reported 
that the Holiday Inn in Oshkosh had meeting facilities available to 
us. 


There was no complete agreement on timing because of lack of knowledge about accommo- 
dations and it was apparent that some latitude would have to be given to Cal's Plan- 
ning Committee when it was formed. 


ACTION It was moved and passed (Unruh-Haddad) that we meet Thursday evening 
in Oshkosh, continuing through the day Friday, and combining with the 


women for the Friday evening Banquet and Program at the Pioneer Inn. 


- 113 - 


HIGH SCHOOL Charles Wise of the Metropolitan Milwaukee Program Staff reported that 
ASSEMBLY in response to a letter sent out to Wisconsin "'Y‘s" by our National 

Youth Council representative, "Chuck" Cahill, 100 High School youth 
have responded wanting some kind of Assembly to take the place of the National Assem- 
bly cancelled due to lack of support. Seventy-five of the replies came from outside 
Milwaukee. Subject matter suggested by the youth included: 


- Uniting Hi-Y 

- Developing Youth-Adult Task-Force Teams 

- Personal Growth 

- Becoming a more effective person 

- Learning to communicate with people and with God 
- Responsibility for our own families. 


‘'Chuck'' Wise agreed to be a member of a team to pursue the matter. Gary Unruh agreed 
to support it and Don Lohmann agreed to furnish a lay-leader as a team member. Chuck 
and Gary agreed to hold some meetings with teenagers to further discover the level of 
interest and support before going further with the project. 


NEXT MEETING Dates and spacing of subsequent meetings of the group were left to 
Ivan Springstead and Max Clowers. Bob Brunken issued an invitation 

to hold the next meeting in Appleton. Interest in reports on the URBAN GROUP were 

expressed and Max Clowers was asked to share Movement and Wisconsin concerns with the 

group at each meeting. 


ADJOURNMENT The meeting adjourned at 2:30 p.m. 
Respectfully submitted, 


Max W. Clowers, Secretary 


MID-AMERICA REGION 
February 18, 1971 


At our last Wisconsin "Y" Executive Directors' meeting in Milwaukee, I was asked to 
write to you concerning your interest in and commitment to our working together as a 
Wisconsin Group. Implied in your favorable response is your agreement to participate 
actively in the group decision-making and goal-setting processes and to support these 
decisions and goals to the degree you and your Board decide your Association can 
afford to do so. 


Support implies deciding at the time a group project is undertaken what resources your 
Association can afford to commit, whether they be in staff time, lay-resources, equip 
ment or money. 


We have, to all intents and purposes, been working together in this way and have iden- 
tified a number of projects and concerns to occupy us in the immediate future. 


The Mini-Assembly in April is an immediate project priority and it is possible for us 
there to bring together some lay-staff task force teams to begin work on concerns we 
have identified. The attached Proposed Organizational Plan has been modified somewhat 
in light of our discussion in Milwaukee and contains a list of concerns the group is 
ready to move ahead on. May I hear from you? 


Yours sincerely, 


Max W. Clowers 
Regional Consultant 


- 114 - 
THE YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION 
OF ST. LOUIS AND ST. LOUIS COUNTY 
GREATER METROPOLITAN ST. LOUIS CLUSTER YMCAs 
REPORT OF SECOND-YEAR'S OPERATION 


The contract between the YMCA of St. Louis and St. Louis County and Region I and the 
Mid-America Region, in effect since March 1, 1970, has now passed the two-year mark 
since its inception. The contract authorizes the St. Louis YMCA to provide support 
services and maintain contact relationships with the following YMCAs: 


MID-AMERICA REGION REGION I 

Hannibal, Missouri Quincy, Illinois 

University of Missouri, Jacksonville, Ill. - Sherwood Eddy Memorial YMCA 
Columbia, Missouri Alton, Illinois 

Jefferson City, Mo. Granite City, Ill. - Tri-City Area YMCA 

YMCA of St. Louis and Edwardsville, Illinois 
St. Louis County Springfield, Illinois (July 1, 1971) 


Belleville, Illinois 

East St. Louis, Illinois 

Carbondale, I1l. - Jackson County YMCA 
Mt. Vernon, Illinois 


During the past year, twelve (12) different members of the St. Louis YMCA staff made 
fifty-one (51) visitations to Cluster Associations, covering 5,797 miles, and were 
away from St. Louis for 347 hours. Itemization for some of the reasons for Cluster 
visitations follows: 


Competitive sports consultations Public Relations program planning 
Programming maintenance staff Long-range financial planning 
Consultations on cleaning and Long-range planning 
maintenance problems Family program planning 
Feasibility and planning regard- Membership Enrollment consultations 
ing Capital Funds Campaigns Management By Objectives consultations 
General Administrative consultations Staff interviews 


Physical Education program evaluations 


Although individualized services have been and will remain a major thrust, many other 
kinds of services play a part in the total area of relationships that are a part of 
the St. Louis Cluster operation. 


In early 1971, a very comprehensive evaluation of the work of the Cluster during its 
first year of operation was developed. As a result of this evaluation, the Cluster 
Steering Committee identifiedfour (4) primary areas that would constitute the chart 
of work for the Cluster for year two. Let's take a look at the four priority areas 
as outlined in the chart of work, comparing the priority area with the chart of work 
instituted by the Cluster to help meet the priority needs: 


Program Development - One of the prime areas identified in the evaluation was the 
need throughout the Cluster to develop techniques and know-how in program and pro- 
gram development. In an attempt to meet this need, the Cluster was involved in 
the following types of special programming sessions: 


1. Aquatic Certification Institutes 3. Mini Bike Information Sessions 
2. Leaders Club Training Institutes 4. Numerous Program Staff meetings 


- 115 - 


5. Y-Indian Guides Skillerama 8. Mini Bike Workshop 
6. Program Development Workshop 9. Industrial Management Clubs 
7. Fitness Finders Workshop Workshop 


The above are only samples of various kinds of program events that were scheduled and 
open to all Cluster members during the past year. The events occurred at the rate of 
one or two per month and usually had an average of about five (5) Cluster representa- 
tives in attendance at each one. 


Financial Development - Financial Development was identified through the evaluation 
tool aS a prime need. The following kinds of events were available for lay and 
staff participation from the Cluster: 


1. Financial Development Workshop 
2. Staff Financial Development Seminar 
3. Board Members' Conference with special thrust on Financial Development 


Administrative Techniques - A wide variety of needs surfaced in the evaluation 
under this heading. Many were met through the following types of involvement: 


1. The delivery of the American Management Association Basic Supervisory Manage- 
ment Course to eleven (11) of thirteen (13) Executives. (Delivery in 
process to five (5) Senior Program Associates in the Cluster.) 

2. A special Cost Study Workshop 

3. Unemployment Compensation Workshop 


Lay Involvement - By design, the first year of operation of the St. Louis Cluster 
did not emphasize the development of excessive lay involvement or lay structure. 
During the second year, initial steps were taken to create "an informal" structure 
that would allow lay in-put and involvement to a degree to be determined by the 
structure in the affairs of the Cluster. Special lay events held during the past 
year included: 


1. Financial Development Workshop 3. Board Members' Conference 
2. The first St. Louis Cluster Assembly 4. A special Presidents-Executives meetir 


Several events that have transpired during the past year need special attention in 
this report and I would like to do that at this time. 


FIRST ST. LOUIS CLUSTER ASSEMBLY 


All but two (2) of our Cluster Associations were in attendance at the first Cluster 
Assembly as one hundred fifteen (115) youth and adults participated in this Conference. 
Chaired by Bob Damon (Alton) and Dave Nicholson (St. Louis), the Assembly was high- 
lighted by a special Multi-Media presentation. The Assembly also provided opportunity 
for Cluster representatives to evaluate the past, raise questions regarding services, 
and have in-put as to what they would like to see in the future. 


FINANCIAL DEVELOPMENT WORKSHOP 


A special staff and lay opportunity to participate with John MacBean in a Workshop 
relating to the total field of Financial Development. Eight Cluster Executives par-~- 
ticipated in the Executives' Workshop and thirty-two representatives from the Cluster 
were in attendance at the evening session. It was identified that our Cluster Associ- 
ations have over a $1 million capital indebtedness, thereby highlighting the need for 
this kind of training. 


- 116 - 
STAFF GOLF TOURNAMENT 


Ten Cluster professionals participated, plus Dunbar Reed and Dave Stubbs from Region I. 
The Cluster Association representatives literally ran the St. Louis staff off the golf 
course as they collected the majority of the hardware that was awarded for top place- 
ments in the tournament. 


AMA SUPERVISORY MANAGEMENT COURSE 


With all but two Cluster Executives participating in this training opportunity and five 
Program Associates at present involved in the Course, this probably has resulted in the 
most meaningful Management Training for not only the Cluster Executives, but also St. 
Louis staff, in some time. 


BOARD MEMBERS' CONFERENCE 


Forty-one members of the Cluster were in attendance at the Board Members' Conference 
at Trout Lodge on October 8 & 9, 1971. The Alton YMCA led the ten Associations repre- 
sented with the most lay people in attendance. 


CLUSTER EXECUTIVES-PRESIDENTS MEETING 


January 13, 1972 was a red letter day for the Cluster as the first formal lay organiza- 
tional structure was approved. A Conference of Presidents, composed of Presidents and 
First Vice Presidents of all Cluster Associations comprise this organization. The Con- 
ference will be chaired by the Past President of one of the Associations outside of St. 
Louis. The first Chairman of the Conference of Presidents is William F. Hoelscher from 
the Tri-City Area YMCA. The Conference of Presidents will hold at least one Annual 
Meeting (usually in January) but will also gather at other occasions such as the Board 
Members' Conference and the Cluster Assembly. Special meetings will be held on call. 


The Steering Committee, composed of four St. Louis staff members, one Cluster Associ- 
ation Executive, an Executive from Region I, and also an Executive from the Mid-America 
Region, along with a rotating Cluster Executive from a non-Metro East Association, have 
met eight times during the past year to conduct immediate affairs of the Cluster. Un- 
finished items of concern to the Steering Committee at the present time would include: 


1. The need to work at a program of Board training and Board development with Clustez 
Executives. This has been identified by the Cluster Executives as a number one 
need in a training identification questionnaire to which they responded. 


2. Working with the Conference of Presidents to examine the possibility of developin; 
a training session for new Association Presidents and involve the Conference in 
development of documentation for Cluster financing. 


3. The possibility of developing a training session for Executives contemplating 
entering into Capital Campaigns. The large number of Associations contemplating 
Campaigns would indicate that preparatory training for Executives involved in 
these efforts could be quite helpful. 


It would be the opinion of the Cluster Coordinator that the work of the Cluster has bee: 
accomplished in a more efficient manner as a result of the learnings of the first year. 
Due to the development of relationships between staff, much productive work can now be 
done via telephone rather than in-person visits. This does not say that personal visits 
should not be made on a frequent basis, but merely indicates that with the development 
of personal relationships, many kinds of things can be managed in other ways. This 
dramatically increases the effectiveness of time usage and also relates to the effec- 
tiveness of the work of the total Cluster. 


Ted W. Hawkins 
3/11/72 Cluster Coordinator 


- 117 - 


PREPARED FOR THE ST. LOUIS MINI ASSEMBLY 
MARCH 20, 1971 


A CASE HISTORY 1970 - ALTON, ILLINOIS YMCA 


The Alton YMCA facilities consist of a social and office building with junior and 
senior lounges, game room, general-purpose room, adequate athletic department, in- 
cluding gymnasium, swimming pool, locker rooms, health club and handball courts -- 
but without residence facilities. 


Membership currently totals 2,500. One-fourth are women and girls. Forty per cent 
belong via family membership plan. Nearly half are age 6 to 18, and nearly half are 
over age 30. Probably less than ten per cent are Black. 


The Alton YMCA serves a community of approximately 100,000 in population. The Alton 
YMCA is valued at approximately one million dollars. The annual operating budget is 
approximately $135,000.00. 


A fund drive in 1960 raised a substantial portion of the money needed to replace the 
then 50-year-old building in downtown Alton. The new building opened in October, 1964. 


Membership soon doubled from the 1100 level in the old facility. However, in the first 
five full years of operation, a deficit of nearly $30,000 was accumulated. In addition, 
debt service of over $2,200 per month on a $270,000 mortgage posed severe problems. 

By the end of 1969, we were on our third Executive Director since we moved into our 

new facility, with little tangible evidence of financial stability and control. 


In May, 1970, about two months after the St. Louis Metropolitan Cluster Group was estab- 
lished, we appealed to that Group for help. Initially, we requested a management sur- 
vey to evaluate just what our problems were. We wanted to know how we compared to 
similar YMCA's in expense, income, membership rates, program, maintenance, United Fund 
subsidy, etc. 


Ted Hawkins, Associate Executive Director, Operations, challenged Harold Berg, Associ- 
ate Director, Division of Personnel and Training, with this project. The result was 

a unique study comparing the Alton YMCA with 14 similar facilities in similar comnun- 
ities in the mid-West. The basis for the study was factual data and statistics for 
1969. (Jacksonville, Illinois YMCA was among the fourteen included in the study.) 


There were some surprises. We learned that our membership rates were in line, not low, 
as some of us felt. The maintenance expense was found to be on the high side. The 
number of members per the population base was very low (3 per 100 vs. average 6 to 7 
per 100 in comparable Associations), with an unusually small proportion of young 
members. 


Other highlights of the study: Aiton's debt load is on the high side. The quality of 
programs offered rated high as judged by participant loyalty. United Fund subsidy is 
unusually high. 


In addition to the above study in June, 1970, a number of other interesting things 
happened in 1970. The annual membership campaign in January was below expectations. 
The Board conducted a mini-fund drive and raised $30,000 in cash and pledges to ser- 
vice the mortgage. The old YMCA building was sold for $23,500. The mortgage holder 
agreed to our paying only interest for two to three years. The Executive Director 
resigned September 1. 


- 118 - 


A search for a new Executive Director began, with the help of the Cluster Group. 
Candidates were screened and tested by Ted Hawkins and his associates. They recom- 
mended our present Executive Director, Les Sommers, who joined us in September, 1970. 


Since then, we have been quick to use existing programs and services of the Cluster 
Group and the St. Louis Metropolitan YMCA. For example, a delegation of five attended 
the Board Members! Conference at Trout Lodge in October. Four of us attended the 
membership campaign workshop in October. Our staff attended a program accounting work- 
shop in December. Just recently, three swimming instructors participated in an aquatic 
workshop at the St. Louis YMCA. 


The Alton YMCA has sought expert counseling in particular problem areas. Dave Wimber, 
Manager, Property and Purchasing, has made several visits to evaluate maintenance 
practices, job description and purchasing procedures. For example, we are now buying 
light bulbs at National Council prices. We had special help in trying to solve the 
problem of green pool water. J. Philip Hellwege, Director, Division of Finance and 
Business Management, St. Louis Metropolitan YMCA, has participated in attacking our 
bookkeeping problems. Use was also made of the Campaign theme selected by the St. 
Louis YMCA, thus allowing us to get maximum effectiveness from a limited membership 
campaign budget. The close proximity of the St. Louis YMCA to the majority of Cluster 
Associations provides us almost instantaneous response when problems arise. 


Unaudited figures for 1970 indicate a deficit of $2,600. It was this low because of 
a strong surge of new memberships in the last quarter and some early cost reductions 
in purchase of materials and supplies. 


1971 is off to a good start with a membership drive that met its goal. 


As accounting and maintenance improvements are further implemented, I believe 1971 
will see improved financial operations. AS creative programs and enthusiasm take 
hold, I believe membership will increase toward the capacity of the beautiful facil- 
ities in Alton. 


A major building fund drive is in the offing but the prospects are looking better. 
I see the exchange of experience and the resources available in the St. Louis Ciuster 


as an important factor in what I believe is a turn-around of Alton YMCA's fortunes. 


R. H. Damon 
Past President 
Alton YMCA Board of Directors 


- 119 - 
BAY AREA FEDERATION OF YMCAs 


PROGRESS REPORT 


The Pacific Region Board of Directors allocated the sum of $25,000 in September, 1971 
to provide major support to the Bay Area Federation of YMCAs during the initial 15- 
month period, October 1, 1971 to December 31, 1972. 

Stated objectives were: 


1. Actualize the Bay Area Federation in 1971. 


2. In 1971, develop a single request to UBAC with the objective of securing a 
three-year funding base and to receive a single allocation for 1972, 1973, 1974. 


3. To explore the ways of developing a uniform and/or a single accounting system 
related to a single request and allocation from UBAC. 


Other Objectives are to - 
4. Develop a unified purchasing system of selected items. 
5. Examine the possibility of unified camping services. 
6. Examine the possibility of unified youth outreach training programs. 


The founding members of the Federation are: 


Berkeley YMCA, Berkeley, Calif. West Contra Costa YMCA, 
Mount Diablo YMCA, Pleasant Hill, Calif. Richmond, Calif. 
Sequoia YMCA, Redwood City, Calif. YMCA of Oakland, Calif. 


University YMCA (Stiles Hall), Berkeley, Calif. YMCA of San Francisco, Calif. 
Qur progress to date with respect to the above is, briefly: 


1. Staff was employed effective October 1 to implement the attainment of the 
objectives. 


2. The Bay Area Federation of YMCAs has been established and it held its first 
meeting on December 14. Attached is a copy of the Federation Articles of 
Agreement signed by the founding members. It is hoped that adjoining YMCA's 
will see fit to join the Federation, as our activities move beyond our present 
concentration of work with the United Bay Area Crusade (UBAC). 


3. Six of the seven-member YMCAs have agreed to request a single 1972 allocation 
from UBAC and have developed a method of dividing a single allocation. The 
request was submitted on February 1 and a budget panel hearing in behalf of 
the Federation was held on February 16. 


In view of the disappointing 1971 campaign results, UBAC has declined to make allo- 
cation agreements now beyond 1972. 


The University YMCA (Stiles Hall), with permission of UBAC and with full agreement 
by the other Federation members, decided to make a separate budget request for 1972 
wiile it explores options of joining other campus agencies for future requests. 


- 120 - 


Agreement has been reached by Federation members on an account numbering 
system and on program categories for functional budgeting. This is based 
upon National YMCA Urban Group systems and is consistent with United Way 
standard accounting procedures. It has been accepted by UBAC. 


With respect to the development of a common planning-programming-budgeting 
system, negotiations with UBAC have been initiated and commitment has been 
made on their part to join the Federation in the design of a mutually 
acceptable system. 


Interesting beginnings have been made in camping and public relations. The 
member Associations plus Palo Alto YMCA, Palo Alto, Calif.; Santa Rosa YMCA, 
Santa Rosa, Calif., and Solano County YMCA, Vallejo, Calif. have joined in 
the common effort to promote their YMCA summer camping programs. Highlights 
include: 


a. Compilation of the attached camping directory. YMCA's receiving in- 
quiries about programs they do not have will refer them to other 
cooperating Associations. 


b. The professional public relations staffs of the Oakland and San Francisco 
YMCAs are taking leadership in a very substantial promotion of YMCA 
summer camping through television, radio and the press. A color movie 
spot announcement on camping has been prepared for use by most Bay Area 
television stations urging ''Contact your local YMCA." 


Member YMCAs are beginning studies of the feasibility of joint operation of 
several aspects of camping for 1973, including caravans, promotion, transpor- 
tation, insurance, etc. This idea developed at two conferences of YMCA camp 
management personnel, jointly sponsored by the Federation. 


The lay and staff leadership of the member YMCAs have been hard at work during the 
six months since October 1. Our records show about 50 different board, committee 
and staff group meetings held during that period in furtherance of the Federation's 


Pacific Region staff, especially Charlie Van Winkle, have given us valuable 


assistance and advice. 


Robert Stice 
Executive Director 


April 3, 1972 


- 121 - 
SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA COUNCIL OF YMCA'S 


POSITION DESCRIPTION 


POSITION DESCRIPTION: Project Director 

GENERAL INFORMATION: 

The YMCAs of the SAn Francisco Bay Area organized into a Council in 1962. During the 

past years, steps have been taken to mature this Council into a Bay Area Federation 

of YMCAs. The goals and objectives for this Federation have been established. The 

general purpose is to “increase the effectiveness and influence of YMCAs and YMCA 

program in the Bay Area." 

GENERAL RESPONSIBILITIES: 

The Project Director will provide staff services and leadership to the Bay Area Council 

of YMCAs in establishing a Bay Area Federation of YMCAs. The Director will work to 

establish a collaborative system with the YMCAs and United Bay Area Crusade in devising 

a single presentation and receiving a single allocation. The Director will serve as 

the convener and facilitater for the General Directors of the participating Associations 

SPECIFIC FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES: 

1. Give required leadership and staff work to developing a unified budgeting system 
and a single presentation, and to give leadership and staff work to the planning 
and negotiations with United Bay Area Crusade (UBAC) in developing the budget and 
allocations processes. 


2. Provide the staff leadership required to actualize the Bay Area Federation of the 
YMCAs. 


3. Identify and aid in developing staff training programs necessary to achieve stated 
objectives. 


QUALIFICATIONS : 

1. Extended experience and capability in management and administration. 

2. Ability to deal effectively with top echelon YMCA and community leaders. 
3. Demonstrated ability in budget development and fiscal management. 


4. Knowledgeable about functional budgeting systems and application to agency 
operations. 


5S. Demonstrated ability in establishing and achieving organizational objectives. 
6. Demonstrated ability as a team worker and coordinator. 


7. An innovative, creative and imaginative approach to problem solving. An ability 
to develop new and effective ways of achieving determined objectives. 


AUTHORITY AND RELATIONSHIPS: 


1. The Director is employed by and reports to the Bay Area Council of YMCAs. 


- 122 - 


2. The Director will operate within the policies established by the Council. 
3. The Director will supervise the staff of the Council that may be employed. 


4. The Director will supervise project consultants that may be employed in behalf 
of the Council. 


5. The Director will serve as convener and provide staff services for the General 
Directors' Staff Committee. 


SALARY : 


This position is viewed as a half-time position in terms of an annual salary up to 
$10,000 plus approved benefits and expenses. The anticipated budget for the project, 
including salary and benefits for the first year for this office, is $24,600. The 
project is currently approved for fifteen months. 


HOW TO MAKE APPLICATION: 


Applicants should send resumes and other evidences of qualification, together with 
requests for interviews to: 


Richard Johnson 

President 

Bay Area Council of YMCAs 

833 First Western Building 
Oakland, California 94612 

(415) 452-2133 


Deadline for applications is September 1, 1971. 

It is intended that interviews will be held between September 13 and September 17, 1971, 
and that employment will begin on October 1, 1971 if present target dates can be 
achieved. Applicants must carry their own transportation expense for interview. 


Applicants are requested to provide a resume' for review. 


Attachment: Bay Area Federation goals and objectives. 


8/10/71 


- 123 - 
LAKE ONTARIO 


NOTES FROM GENERAL SECRETARIES! MEETING -- LAKE ONTARIO REGION 
Wednesday, February 9, 1972 at 2160 Yonge St., Toronto 


PRESENT: Messrs. Eric Eamon; Gary Brittain; Arthur Buckley; Ron Hupfield, Henry 
Labatte and Rix Rogers. Special Guest - Solon B. Cousins, Wellesley, Mass. 


Solon Cousins presented an informative description of urban developments in the United 
States YMCAs, and particularly the various cluster experiments under way. The term 
‘cluster' refers to four kinds of development: 

(a) Groups of Y's geographically contiguous to one another; 


(b) Non-geographic cluster -- special group of Associations of similar 
interests who have formed together; e.g., the Urban Group; 


(c) Hub-city cluster -- a geographical pattern, but closely related to one 
large metropolitan urban Association; 


(d) Hub group cluster -- a grouping of two or more large metropolitan Y's 
which are relatively close to one another. 


BASIC THEORY 


Clustering is a banding together in an effort to strengthen the effectiveness of the 
YMCAs. The larger Y's are facing serious difficulties and it is important to 
strengthen them. 


GENERAL DISCUSSION 


A wide variety of topics were discussed which would lend themselves to collaborative 
effort, and it was stressed that selected specific items should be the starting point 
for mutual work. 


YWCA PARTICIPATION 

Discussion took place to see if we should invite YWCA Executives in the region to 
join YMCA Executives at further meetings. It was agreed that the local YMCA Execu- 
tive would invite the YWCA Executive in their city to attend the next meeting. 
FINANCING REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT 

Several ideas were discussed. Each Association will need to send a few dollars to 
start with -- we may want to allocate some resources from the National Budget. It 


was felt we could start gradually and then attempt to build up the resources for 
the 1973 operation. 


PLAN FOR THE NEXT MEETING 
PLACE - Oakville CHAIRMAN - Gary Brittain 


DATE - Wednesday, March 29, 1972 
10:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. 


« £24¢ 


AGENDA ITEMS 


1. Community Use of Schools 
..-Denis McClelland of Toronto will be asked to share a draft of a 
Brief he is working on. 
2. Liaison with Provincial Government 
. Henry Labatte will have a detailed proposal. 
3. General Inventory 
.-Arthur Buckley will use form from Solon Cousins to collect and 
analyze data from all executives. 
4. Program Profile and Resources of the Region 
.-National Council Research Department (Alex Owen) to be asked to 
do an analysis of major areas of expertise and functions for 
discussion at the meeting. 
5. Standards of Performance 
..-Solon Cousins will have copies in our hands in the areas of fiscal 
management, financial development, and manpower development. 
6. General Recommendations regarding next steps in the development of the 
region for presentation to the next Regional Meeting on April 12, 1972. 
R. G. Rogers 


February 14/72 


