NATIONAL COUNCIL OF YMCAs OF CANADA 


NATIONAL LINGUISTIC CENTRE 


YMCA of Montreal 
January 1980 


<a) 


NATIONAL LANGUAGE POLICY 


PRN CRaeeasceisaeea ee ence eens 


NATIONAL LANGUAGE POLICY STATEMENT: 


Cc CUSCL Ives 32S eee ene 
D- National YMCA linguistic Centre--------------- 


l= MOGI TICAt ONS saree ee eeeesn eee See 
“o~ ContYactual arrangelient<=<]——-eeessesees-se=~ 


MONTREAL YMCA: 


j= The Sixtties-------<<----=-—-<sesaemsaeemessan= 

ar - Ie Sere nies Sse esses ee ease ree eS 
NATIONAL LINGUISTIC CENTRE: 

le ROl6-<seee= een eS eee eae e= == 


2  FORGTIORS == — =n = mae eee ses 


CONCLUSION----------------------------------------------------------- 


Annexes: 


I - National Language Policy Statement 

II - Montreal Fact 

III- Montreal Fact - analysis - 1975-1979 

IV - National Linguistic Centre - Action Plan - Phase I 


Page 


| 


ms scheme ens See naabscecncen abet Ne sb ete tetas cle aeecs at OT ni TIED Anas ci 


* 
— an eae RRO sn: eS eae ee 


PREFACE 


It is not necessary at this point to refer once again to the historical 
background of YMCAs of Canada. There is ample documentation to recall the stages 
of this federation, unique by its philosophy and its presence in all levels of 


the Canadian community. 


noe na aseer een «senna oueerneeenen ener 


For the past 12 years, the YMCAs of Canada have been analysing the Canadian 


reality and its cultural and linguistic pluralism. The very essence cf the YMCA 


philosophy, as is well known, is based on the recognition of this pluralism, the 


respect of the individual, and the development of man within a collectivity. The 


Canadian collectivity brings together two founding peoples of different cultural |; 
and linguistic heritage. The population of Canada consists principally of English! 
speaking and French speaking people, which form the membership, both present and 
future, of YMCAs. 


In accordance to their principles, YMCAs must not only serve the entire 


commmity but also respect provincial, regional, and local differences. Limiting 


| 
H 
i 
| 
| 
the services of YMCAs to one Canadian group oniy is out of che question. .o bz | 
a reflection of the Cana. ia: co:muity implies t.:e recognition of a true bilinguism. 
From t.e West coast to the iast Coast of Canada, English speaking and French | 
speaking people live side ty side. In order to be able to meet the various i 
requirements of the Canadian community, YMCAs of Canada have taken the necessary 
measures and adopted a definite position regarding Canadian bilinguism that led 

to a "National Language Policy" approved by the National Board of Directors of 


YMCAs of Canada on February 24,1979. 


ec eae ane Sa A ne EN A ENA eR th A Nee RoR a ne a he 


Fr rn a were meneame amenermemeentngans fe mk onstrate nn ae meme AG Ome = ON ee NI A RNIN ROE 


1 


cece ae ARTUR arene enna et Sennen in Ae seme Geman -o- nee Oe eT Smee 


NATIONAL LANGUAGE POLICY 


(annexe I) 


The text is concise and clear. 


PREFACE (annexe I - p. 1-2) 


History of YMCAs of Canada 


1976: Resclution to provide services and commmications bilingually 
where requested or necessary. 


There are 16 Associations across Canada serving communities where there 
are significant numbers of French speaking Canadians. 


Increase the capacity to serve in both languages. 


GOALS OF THE LANGUAGE POLICY (annexe I - p. 5) 


OBJECTIVES OF THE LANGUAGE POLICY (annexe I - p. 3-4) 


1- 


To ensure that both the Toronto and Ottawa offices have the ability to 
represent the National Council in both official languages. 


- no later than June 1983 


To ensure that the materials and publications of the National Council 
reflect the linguistic realities of the YMCA federation. 


- no later than June 1981 


National projects or training events must have the capacity to serve in 
both official languages 


~ no later than June 1981 


Will be in both languages: 

- written materials 

- questionnaires - reports 

- training events, trips 

- Planning and Managenient groups 

- possible support from National Council 


no later than June 1981 


1 


The National council will conduct an annual orientation program. 


NATIONAL YMCA LINGUISTIC CENTRE (annexe I - p. 5) 


- contractual arrangement with the YMCA of Montreal 
- major functions of the Center 
- a National co-ordinator. 


a8 seernenet meray es aotnens eebermname ene: 


*] Modifications 


Some modifications have been made in the original text. Thus, all the 
target dates have been postponed for a year. The National Linguistic Centre 
started its operations on December i>" 1979. 


*2 Contractual Arrangement with the Montreal YMCA 

The practical application of this linguistic policy at a National level 
began on December 1 1979, but this important project related to the YMCAs 
and the national reality had been studied for several years. Financial 
support from the Federal Government has permitted to put these studies on 
bilinguism into a more concrete form. A contractual arrangement has been made 
with the Montreal YMCA, an Association that has promoted bilinguism in its 
operations since 1975. The annexed documents (Annexes II and III) detail the 
charges accomplished over a foureyear period. 


Thanks to the National Linguistic Centre, the Montreal YMCA will be able 


to guide and orientate, up to a certain point, the other Associations having 
to meet the requirements of the Canadian duality. 


= ee ee 
ne em ee NE RE CE REE OR RA NS IEE RT A NR A RE 


ne TR ne ne nee a rr enn re ee 


ae RN AE A A A a A NN RRR te RETR ne ae _ a 


THE MONTREAL YMCA 
(Annexes II-III) 


l= In the 60's, the Montreal YMCA began to see the need to serve the total 
community and not simply a selected constituency. As Montreal is a community 
consisting mainly of Francophones, the need to work in both official languages 
also emerged as an increasing priority. The YMCA National Conference at York 
University in 1968 opened the doors and the Montreal YMCA began its efforts. 
Various projects had already exposed the need and the possibility for an or- 
ganisation such as the YMCA to work within the French speaking community of 


Montreal. 


2- The 70's represent the manifestation of this aspiration through the 
implementation of fumctional bilinguism. The adoption of the Linguistic 
Policy in 1975 consecrated the role of the Montreal YMCA: to be the reflection 


of the community as a whole. 1979 was the target date to meet these objectives. 


The annexed document (Annexe III) details this evolution. The quantitative 
analysis illustrates the sustained effort of the Montreal YMCA to meet the 
requirements of the community through the use of the two official languages. 
The projects, the contribution of bilingual volunteers, the professionnal 
French speaking staff, etc. permit us to clearly state that the Montreal YMCA 


is no longer unilingual Association. 


Let's examine this statistical analysis in detail. 


mere wr kat er rmne ean ee” Sa EREE ERI RES I aR Te OOO ETAL ENTE A 


nee ANE i BS ew oN 


i etc tc el DL ALON, i ree: 


en cameneian 


sl 


1- The role of the Centre 


Over the years, the National Council has understood the importance of 
fuctioning in the 2 official languages of Canada. A service for simultaneous 
translation has been established at Geneva Park and certain publications are 
already bilingual. 


The objective of the National Council, in order to bring to reality its 
desire to serve all the commmities of Canada, was the creation of a National 
Linguistic Centre. This Centre is now in operation through a contractual arrange- 
ment with the Montreal YMCA. However, it is clear that there is no question of 
copying the work done in Montreal and of applying it in full in the various regions. 
of Canada. The Linguistic Centre is national, therefore it must reflect the 
Canadian diversities. Each region having to develop its bilinguism capacities 
will be analysed and orientated according to its own requirements, its own parti- 
cularities, its own originality. The Centre will provide professional linguistic 
services, attempt to standardize the terminology used in the YMCAs, organize 
language training according to a proven and adequate methodology and help the 
Associations in their planning to better serve their commmity. 


Generally speaking, the Centre will play animation and technical role. The 
analysis of the 4 functions of the Centre will help to clarify these two initiatives. 


2- Fimctions of the Centre (annexe IV) 
1- Language training for staff members 
2- Translatio of materials 
3- Conducting orientation sessions for National Council leaders 
4- Support and encouragement to Associations to provide services in both | 
languages where appropriate and the development of a lexicon for technical | 
YMCA terms. 


For the first year of operations (Phase I of the project), the Centre has 


prepared a realistic and feasible action plan. The concrete results of the year 
will serve to establish the course to be followed for 1981-82-83 etc. 


(See annexe IV). 


te ee AN ee oo NE SCALE ETE AC NE OO AON NN CE A OS 


CONCLUSION 


The adoption of a National Linguistic Policy and the application of this | 
Policy give an indication of the will of the Canadian YMCA federation to better | 
serve the total community. 


The Federal Government has provided a substantial subsidy to the YMCA 
federation. The collaboration of members of the Secretary of State, and 
especially that of Mr. Denis Roberge and Mr. Terry Tétreault, has been invaluable. | 
It is worth mentioning that they are still working with us and that they have 
understood the human meaning of this request for money. 


The YMCAs have an important role to play in our country, a role that goes 
far beyond the political frontiers... Man wants to develop himself, man needs 


i tac nc tn el sa caste nee 


challenges, man belongs to a collectivity, man is limited, man wants to give, 
man belongs to a whole... These fundamental philosophical ideas are the vary base 


of YMCA activities. With no discrimination of religion, color, race and age, 


Canadians of all ages are already participating in the various programs offered 


i 
i 
| 
all are invited to participate in YMCA activities. More than one million of 
by the Association. Bilinguism will allow more Canadian to join us. 

| 

H 

| 


Thus, the success of the implementation of the National Language Policy is 
very closely linked to the very meaning of a YMCA. 


The means that are outlined in this document will contribute to a massive 
broadening of the capabilities of the YMCAs of Canada in their struggle for 
human development and social action. 


¢ 
4 
i 


