1982 -- REVIEW: 


Although this year, "Les Voyageurs" cannot boast about the number of 
campers we had, we can boast about the things that did happen with the 


small number who were there. 


For the second year running, all the "Les Voyageurs" trips have been 


fun, challenging and safe. 


All the campers were pleased with their trips and most felt they had 
accomplished something they never felt they could. My personal 
feeling is that not only did the campers go home feeling that they had 
"made it" through a one hundred and twenty five (125) mile canoe trip, 
but also that they had learned a, lot more than how to" start a fire in 
the rain". I also feel that they all learned more about themselves and 


how to work with others as a team. 


Bue cd the fact that we put a lot of effort into teaching on our canoe 
trips, it was especially gratifying to see such keen, responsive 
campers. Most important of all was the fact that all our canoe trips 
were safe. This we feel was due to the way in which we handled our 
groups and a lot of luck. We took no unnecessary chances or challenges 


which we though would endanger any member of our group. 
{ 


What we taught our campers is that you can still have a challenging 
experience in the bush without taking unnecessary risks with the 


safety of the group. 


I am often told by peple (even YMCA staff) that I must enjoy a 
wonderful summer, how canoe trips must be so ei am able to swim 
anytime, get a suntan and generally take it easy all summer. When 
they hear how much planning and preparations alone are needed to 
completely prepare seven campers for a successful trek through one 
hundred and twenty five miles of swamp, grown over portages, large 
lakes and river systems, they realize that ten hours a day for twelve | 


days straight is a big responsibility. 


It involves not only travelling on nice sunny days, but rainy days, 
days when the black flies an deer flies are areal problem. The work 
is hard and when a day's paddle is finished you're looking at working 
around the campsite to set up for the night. Often it takes a lot of 
resourcefulness to motivate the campers as well as myself through 


diffitult parts of a trip. 


The question is "then why do it?" Tome it is a chance to teach young 
people new skills with nature as my classroom. It gives them a 
chance to learn more about themselves and how they function in a co-ed 
group, and an opportunity to test newly aquired physical skills. To 


me, it is worth all the hardships on any trip. 


' 


Tripping Area: 


Each year there seems to be more and more people and garbage in the 
after where we have always tripped. There are still some beautiful 
areas that are clean and somewhat isolated in the Park, but the fees 
are getting so high that we have been taking most of our trips north 


east of the Park. 


It has been suggested, in past Directors' reports, (Paul Mongraw in 
1974 and Bob Woodhouse in 1978) that we start looking elsewhere to 
trip becuase of people ang garbage. I think that this is important | 
and we should look around for new extended tripping routes, but not in 


1983. Next year should be used to get the camp on its feet. 
Staff: 


In the past two years I have worked with Bill Partridge. I have yet 
to meet anyone his age (17) who is more able inthe bush. He is very 
much a self-starter and I see no reason why he shouldn't run his own 


canoe trips next summer. I recommend him very highly. 


Any other staff hired should be (as in past years) the best trained 
and most experienced with both young people and with canoe trips. 


They are very hard to find but well worth the effort. 


‘ 


Equipment: 


It is all in good shape and is in the boxes in the trip shed beside the 
farm house. There should be enough equipment to take out three - six 
man trips. As there has only been one trip out at a time in the past 
two years, much of the equipment has gone unused. Hopefully this 


will change in 1983. 


Whoever is directing Les Voyageurs should go up to camp in May and air 
out the equipment. As every tripper has their own style, next year's 


Director may want to add to the existing inventory. 


In terms of paddles, the Voyageurs should be advised at parent's 
night in May, to buy them in the City. Kamp Kanawana's supply is 


often low and generally of poor quality. 


- 
’ 


At least 1200 (good qaulity) baggies must be bought before camp. 
This supply would last the summer and save a lot of time if bought 


before camp. 


Four more metal first aid kits should be purchased. Two should goon 


each trip, one with bandages, and one with pills, tape, etc. 


i 


More Chicago screws. They can be bought downstairs at Pascals on 


Ste., Catherine St. 


Some of the pots need repair, and there is probably only enough for 


two trips. 


There are five tents and tarps and three of these need repair before 


they go out. 


Bob Woodhouse (Director, 1978-79) put together a fantastic map of all 

the Voyageur routes used in the past ten years. It is in the 
equipment box at the farm house. As it has taken many long hours of 
work to put this map together, and is an extremely useful tool, it 


must be taken care of. A new set, of maps should be bought before camp. 
Food: 

- 
The fdod that I use on trips is very simple: porridge, cream of wheat 
for breakfast, dried fruit and canned meat and fish for lunch, 
spaghetti, chile, beans, freeze-dried foods, etc., for suppers. 
All of our food was good and very simple to prepare, all that had to be 


added was care. In taking time and energy making the meals all the 


t 
campers were satisfied and I had no problems. 


For the last two years, the campers have arrived the morning before 
their long trip up to the Park. . This leads to a long slow day without 
much to do. Next year they should arrive no sooner than late 
afternoon. The same situation occurs when they return to Kamp 
Kanawana, staying at the farm house overnight and returning to the 


city at 3:30 PM the following day. It is a letdown after the trip. 


The Director of Les Voyageurs earned $1,000. in 1970. In 1982, as 
Director, I made $1,400. and I think it is about time the YMCA took a 


look at this. 


Camper parents night should be compulsary for all. Last summer I 
gave ten days notice and no parents showed up. The night should be 


scheduled for May to ensure full attendance. 


Thank's to Jim Pelton, Bob Woodhouse, Yves St.Pierre, and special 


thanks to Olga Hall for her help and patience. 


Muchas 


MICHAEL JAMES 
DIRECTOR 
LES VOYAGEURS DE LA VERANDRYE 1982 


LES VOYAGEURS 


"Les Voyageurs" is one of the few camps in North America that takes 
young people on extended canoe trips. The trips are well planned and 
safe. The food is better than ever, and with a little effort you can 
eat as well and as much as in any camp dining hall I have ever been in. 
The country is fantastic and always changing. Any one trip offers 
all the different kinds of terrain you will see in North Eastern North 
America. Campers have a chance to see dozens of mammals and birds. 
The fishing is great and any keen fisherman in our group has always | 
gotten more than his fair share of pike and dore. The water and air 
is as clean as any camper will ever experience. The learning and 
exercising of new skills is part of everyday as is the bulding of 
relationships with new found friends. Many campers and staff who 
have shared just one two or three week canoe trip have remained 


friends for life. 


- 
° 


Why is it then that we have only attracted eleven campers in 1982 and 


seventeen campers in 1981? 


After asking myself this question over and over again, I submit the 


following: 


\ 


Lets look at some history.- 


1961 


1963 


1965 


1967 


1969 


1970 


Roger Wilson had a voyageur folder made up by March 15th of 
that year. Three thousand (3,000) copies were sent out to 
all ex-voyageurs, senior K.K. campers, and all YMCA branches 


around the city. 


Les Voyageurs had a new brochure but in the Directors’ 
Report of that year, the first recommendation was that there 


should be more active and earlier promotion. 


Les Voyageurs were on pages six (6) and seven (7) of the 


Montreal Y.M.C.A. Camping brochure. 


Les Voyageurs were on, page nine (9) of the Kamp Kanawana 


brochure. 


The Directors' Report states that in his view, "the adver- 
tising is pretty bad", and makes some suggestions on how to 


improve it. 


The Directors' Report again asks for more effective adver- 


tising for the camp. 


« 
‘The Director, in his final report, is very much against 


moving the base camp from the "Park" to Kamp Kanawana (the 
farm house). He points out the camp will loose much of its 
independance and identity. He also suggests that we try 


putting ads in newspapers in some large American cities. 


In that year (1970) half the Directors’ Report was dedicated 
to suggestions for improvement and maintenance of the 


independance of Les Voyageurs. 
1972 Les Voyageurs moved to Kamp Kanawana. 


1974 The Directors' Report points out the negative effects on 
Les Voyageurs due to the new base of operation out of the farm 


house at Kamp Kanawana. 


1978 Directors' Report asks for some form of outreach advertis-. 
ing, pointing out that without this, registration will 
fall off. 


1979 Director points out that although there were ads in two 
newspapers, the registration was still down. He did make 
some suggetions, T-shirts, and a story in the Canadian 


Section of the Saturday newspaper. 


1982 Les Voyageurs is now on page five (5), twelve (12), and 


thirteen (13) of the YMCA Kamp Kanawana brochure. 


What I am trying to point out is that over the years, many very 
dedicated people who worked for "Les Voyageurs" took time to make 
suggestions for improvement on camp registration. Unfortunately, 
it appears that for the most part these suggestions fell upon deaf 


ears. 


We have to understand that unlike most other camps, Les Voyageurs has 
only one year campers and because of this more time must be spent in 
trying to "sell" the camp. For example, this year I, along with some 
of the other K.K. staff posted two hundred posters for Les Voyageurs 
in May. Unfortunately we later found that these posters should have 


been posted three months earlier. 


Les Voyageurs can work and itis very worthwhile. Personally I think 
it would be a sin if our camp were to be absorbed by Kamp Kanawana, Les 
Voyageurs is a different camp than Kanawana and would therefore loose 
its identity. Les Voyageurs should be dealt as separate by the "Y". A. 
little time, effort and money spent in January and February would 
boost registration for next summer although in viewing reports this 
has not been done. 


Some personal suggestions and some from past years would be: 


- A story on page three (3) of the Gazette in Ted Blackman or Nick Auf 
Der Maur's column. 

- A spot on McGowan's Montreal 

- Ads in the Sunday Camps section of the Sunday, New York Times 

- T-shirts 


Posters - 1,000 posted before April. 


iy 


In order for "Les Voyageurs" to be the camp it should be, we have to 


sell. It is a quality project and the more who know about it the 


Mekedl Pome Oey. #972: 


better. 


