tahoe 


ae 


YMCA HAITI 

1379 Caristroem Street 
Port-au-Prince 
Telephone : 509-245-7277 


Konbit™ Youth Center 


__iMPLEMENTATION PHASE - PROGRESS REPORT 


Andrés Fortunato, Secretary General. YMCA _ of 

Dominican Republic, Frédéric Boisrond and two par- 

ticipants of the Leadership program ir santo Domingo. 
I am pleased to forward you the progress report on the implementation 
of the YMCA of Haiti. We expect that it will be compieted by March 31, 
2002. You will note that this report was written by the team at the 
Centre Jeunesse. In my opinion, it reflects how quickly the proiect has 
matured, the sense of responsibility of those involved, the sound struc- 
ture which all partners involved provided them and, in particular, the 
willingness of each and everyone to give Haitians a YMCA worthy o° ‘ts 


_tf I rely upon the archives I consulted in Haiti, the first attempts to 

nmplement a YMCA go back to 1966. These all ended in failure. 
According to my research, the first projects in Haiti in which the 
Montreal YMCA was involved occurred in 1972. In 1976, the Montreal 
YMCA supported a project in the community of Saintard. At the begin- 
ning of the '80s, we abandoned this project because the people 
involved in Haiti were unable to prove the validity of their project and 
could not demonstrate that the funding provided by the Montreal YMCA 
was being managed properly. 


For all.ofethese reasons, all of us who were involved in this project, 
from near or far, can be proud of our contribution. You met a consi- 
derable challenge by showing confidence in the capabilities of the 
youth of Haiti. 


I believe that the Youth Centre, which is now known as KONBIT, has 
been built on a solid base and that the people involved with it are well 
aware of the importance of their tasks and their enormous responsibi- 
lity. The future of our first point of service in Haiti depends on the 
partners respecting the commitments they made during the implemen- 
tation process. I am confident that the Centre is there to stay and that 
it will continue to develop and respond to the growing needs of the 
Haitian youth. 


Our work is now focused on finding partners who are willing to support 

similar initiatives in other neighborhoods or cities of Haiti. We have 
_informed the YMCA of France, the YMCA of Switzerland, the YMCA of the 
“\nited States, the Heifer Foundation and World Vision. The support we 
received from the YMCA of the Dominican Republic is simply invaluable. 
Here, in Canada, we are continuitig to provide information, in order to 
make both our successes and our plans for the future known. 


To date, I have received projects for the Lévy farm, in Camp-Perrin and 
for the St-Gérard neighborhood in Port-au-Prince. These groups: have 
been involved in the implementation process for several years. Some 
of the persons involved participated in the training given by Carlos 
Sanvee, in March 2000. Moreover, I have received an official commu- 
nication from-the-government of Haiti inviting us to build a physical 


education centre in a modern neighborhood. It has been agreed with — 


World Vision that we will work on implementing a pilot project, most 
probably for l'Ile de la Gonave. 


Upon reading this report, you wiil note how quickly the Centre Jeunesse 
Konbit is developing. It will no doubt incite your willingness to pur- 
sue the work we have undertaken. You would be surprised to know the 
number of people who are showing an interest in contributing to the 
development of the YMCA in Haiti. For all of these reasons and many 
more, we have the obligation to succeed. 

Frédéric Boisrond, 

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, Hochelaga-Mzisonneuve YMCA 


{1] Konbit: Creole expression signifiying the pooling of resources of people from 
the same community for the accomplishment of important work (especially dur- 
ing harvest time) 


if 


Jour de konbit - Konbit day 


1 


Prea= “te 


any ve ‘ous people from the 
YMCA have worked with us in 
Haiti over the past 28 years: Frédéric 


Boisrond, Sheila Laursen, Catarina 
Milani, Carlos Nick 
Nightingale, Martin Vogler, Silvana 
Anania, Sandra Pike-Anthony, Andrés 
Fortunato, Rick McDaniel and many 
others. They neve. stopped believing in 
the feasibility of establishing a YMCA 
in Haiti. They gave us both their leader- 
ship and their sense of responsibilities, 


Sanvee, 


which helped us find the necessary 


funding to realize this project. Through 
this first report, we take the opportunity 


Activities 


ACTIVITIES... 


he Centre Jeunesse Konbit was 
Pesan opened on October 13, 
2001. The main activity of the month 
was Konbit day, reserved for the 
In fact, 
eighty-two people helped out. On 
that day, the Centre was visited by 
Dr. Louis Gerard Gilles, Senator of 
the Republic and Mr. Hermann Nau, 
Secretary of State for Youth, Sports 
and Civic Services. Their presence 


cleaning of the centre. 


not only gave an oftie.alcharacter to 
our first activity but also gave us the 
support we so greatly desired. Two 
companies - Tropic S.A. and Kola 
Larco S. A. - graciously provided us 
with refreshments for this memo- 
rable day. 


The Centre also organized two cther 
on October 20th 
October 27th respectively. The pur- 


activities, and 
pose of the first activity was to sensi- 
tize the youth on the civic signifi- 
cance of the commemoretion of the 
anniversary of the death of the 


PREAMBLE 


to thank them for the good work they 
accomplished. Also, we especially 
wish to thank the organizations which 
guarantee fre finanemg for the first 
three years of Centre Jeunesse Konbit: 
CIDA, the World Alliance of YMCAs, 
the Montreal YMCA and the du Pare 
YMCA. 


To Frédéric Boisrond, who deserves 
much more than our thanks, the Centre 
Jeunesse Konbit of the YMCA of Haiti 
dedicates this first report to him, in gra- 
titude for so much work accomplished 
so effectively. Hi 


founder of the Haitian homeland, the 
Emperor Jean Jacques Dessalines. It 
was also held to form, from among 
those present, three work committees 
which would help structure the 
office: the installations committee, 
the recruitment committee and the 
activities committee. 


The second activity took place to 
allow the three committees previous- 
ly mentioned to work on making re- 
commendations to the steering com- 
mittee and create a democratic 
administration of the Centre, while 
encouraging the participation of its 
members. 
November marked by the 
immersion trip to the Dominican 


Was 


Republic organized and realized by 
Andrés Fortunato, Ezéchiel Mojica 
Ramirez. Rick McDaniel, Frédéric 
Boisrond and the steering committee. 


During this necessary, instructive trip 
these budding leaders from the 
Centre Jeunesse Konbit of the Haiti 
YMCA had the opportunity to see 
how the YMCA of Santo Domingo 
had proceeded to build its leadership 
program. The lessons learned from 
these pragmatic leaders of the Santo 
Domingo YMCA also helped us 
establish programming for the Centre 
Jeunesse Konbit. 

ACTIVITIES — Cont'd at page 2 


(Page (2) 


ae 


OCTOBER 1, 2001 TO DECEMBER 31, 2001 ) 


ACTIVITIES — ... 


THE FOLLOWING 
ACTIVITIES WERE CHOSEN: 
Rules of Operations and Membership: 
To make administrators, employees 
and volunteers aware of their respon- 
sibilities and to develop rules of 
ethics. 

Promoting YMCA Values: To reinforce 
the identity of the organization, to 
make the YMCA and its position bet- 
ter known, and to instil YMCA values 
in the membership. 

Awareness of the Members’ Potential: 
To identify human resources in place, 
and to recruit leaders and volunteers 
for the various activities. 

Training and Welcoming New 
Members: To increase the member- 
ship and the participation in services. 


page 2 


Two other meetings took place du- 
ring the month of November. This 
was a time during which the agenda 
established in Santo Domingo was 


Finances ___ 


f the $15 000.00 US which was 
0 transferred to our account during 
this quarter, $14 469.00 US was 
spent, 80% of which was for the fol- 
lowing 4 items: Salary ($3 595.00), 
Installations ($3 990.00), Travel 
($2 402.00) and Rent ($2 400.00). 


It is important to underline that all 
major budget items were respected: 
$3 966.00 US was budgeted for 3 
salary positions, while $3 595.00 US 
was actually spent. Also, $3 305.00 
US was allocated for rent, while 
$2 400.00 US was actually spent. 
And, when adding items 10, 12, 13 
and 14 of the budget, we note that 
$4 164.00 US was budgeted while 
expenditures estimated at 
$3 990.00 US. 


are 


This brief analysis leads us to con- 
firm that the budget, as established in 
April 2001, will be respected in 
every way for the first quarter ending 
March 31, 2002. 


In fact, of the $10 283.00 US which 
has yet to be transferred, according 
to the budget, it is expected that for 
Salary and Rent expenses for these 
items will be in the same propor- 
tions; while for the Installations and 
Travel items a substantial decrease in 
expenses is foreseen. A partial state- 
ment of expenditures made during 
this quarter is provided below, to 
allow you to better understand the 
financial portion of this report. 


3595.00. 
~ 3990.00 


2402.00 © 


2 400.00 © 


rae 
Creating a Neading Centre: To pro- 
mote reading, to give access to infor- 
mation and to supervise the children. 
Promoting the YMCA in the 
Community: To increase the member- 
ship and to facilitate communication 
with the community. 
Developing the Leadership Program: 
To facilitate the parent-youth-com- 
munity relationship, to enhance par- 
ticipant leadership, to train partici- 
pants in the following areas: first aid, — 
fire prevention, etc. 
Civic Action: To protect the environ- 
ment and the creation of God, to pre- 
vent illness and to contribute to 
improving health (salubrity). 
Org Accompanying 
To integrate outcasts or handicapped 
individuals in national life, to lead 
recreational, sport and educational 
activities, to form new partnerships 
with other institutions of the Haitian 
society, and to sensitize youths to 
the realities of outcasts. 
English and Literacy Courses: To pro- 
mote exchanges, to facilitate integra- 
tion in the job market and to allow 
parents to better supervise their chil- 
dren with their homework. 
Daycare Services for Single Mothers: 
To allow mothers to continue their 
studies or search for employment, 
and to allow children to benefit from 
decent care and educational services. 


outlined; the group which made the 
trip to Santo Domingo was rein- 
forced; a gynecologist, Dr. Aurélus, 
was invited to the Centre to facilitate 


i 
an ififormation session on STDs and 
AIDS and a reading centre was set 
up. This program had us working in 
the same spirit we had during the day 
we spent cleaning the Centre and 
when we took possession of the space 
on October 13th. In fact, our library 
now contains 400 books, magazines 
and documents loaned by some 
members of the Centre who wanted 
to initiate this program which they 
considered a personal challenge. In 
addition, a seminar was held by 
Gwénaél Apollon during which he 
taught young members how to pre- 
pare aresume. This activity gave the 
Centre the opportunity to create a 
personal file with a corresponding 
number for each member, thus facili- 
tating access to the activities for 
members. In all, three hundred peo- 
ple participated in these 6 meetings. 


At the beginning of December, the 
values advocated by the Centre 
Jeunesse were displayed on the walls, 
both on the inside and outside of the 
building: RESPECT, LEADERSHIP, 
RESPONSIBILITY, EMPOWER- 
MENT. December was marked by 
the Christmas party organized on 
December 22nd . It was intended to 


raise funds to install a recognition 
plaque in honor of all those ~ 
helped us both technically and fii” 
cially. A Christmas tree was donated 
to the Centre for the circumstance, 
and the youth were helped by the 
steering committee to decorate it. 
This activity which perhaps was of 
little importance for some was impor- 
tant for others since some had never 
decorated a Christmas tree and many 
had never had a tree at home. 


In December, we also created 4 
clubs: the sports club, women's club, 
games club and reading club. These 
4 clubs brought together the thirty or 
so most dynamic members of the 
Centre. 


Moreover, through the intermediary 
of Mrs. 
blankets from American Airlines 


Desvarieux, we received 


which we quickly offered to disad- 
vantaged children at_the Foyer des 
enfants humanistes, in Kenscoff. It 
was visited by Guerline Frédéric and 
Gwénaél Apollon accompanied 
the Board of Directors of the Crd 
des humanistes d'Haiti, on December 
6th. 


Jour de konbit - Konbit day 


Administration 


ADMINISTRATION.. 


he beginning of the quarter coin- 
bi with the end of the mandate 
of the restructuring committee imple- 
mented in November 2000. This 
committee organized seminars to 
help prepare the plan for the opening 
of the Centre Jeunesse and helped 


P ersp ectives 
PERSPECTIVES... 
uring the next quarter, the Centre 
Jeunesse Konbit will make every 
effort to structure the 4 clubs orga- 
nized in December (sports, women's, 
games, reading). The Centre will 
work towards tripling its number of 
members, now estimated at 118. We 
will also continue to organize 
planned activities for the immersion 
trip to Santo Domingo. 


Furthermore, our volunteer, Jean 
valier Sanon, who is responsible 
lations with the public 

ying an excellent job. 


rent the space which houses our 
Centre. However, given the magni- 
tude of the administrative work anti- 
cipated, we had to form a steering 
committee composed of members 
who were more experienced in 
administration and were more apt to 
be trained in this area. It is with this 
in mind that a steering committee 
was created to manage the Centre 
with future staff members. 


The steering committee is composed 
of Guerline Frédéric, President, 
Bertrande Bourdeau, member, and 
Jacques Juvigny, member. 


The Centre Jeunesse has hired its 2 
first employees:.Sherley Elie, 
Secretary-Receptionist and Agénor 
Cilain, guard-messenger. An admi- 
nistrative assistant will soon join the 
other staff members to strengthen the 


management team. The Centre also 


Leadership session 


Because of this, the YMCA of Haiti 
has already received an invitation to 
reserve a piece of land in the new 


"quartier 2004", in Port-au-Prince, 
with a view to build a physical fitness 
centre. 


Moreover, Gwénaél Apollon will 
continue to work in close collabora- 
tion with Frédéric Boisrond to pro- 


benefits from the services of a con- 
sultant, Gwénaél Apollon, whose 
mandate is to identify,.and train a 


coordinator. 


As regards staff turnover, it should be 
noted that health problems have pre- 
vented our secretary-receptionist to 
pursue the work she began with us 
last October. Members of the Centre 
organized a system whereby volun- 
teers take turns doing the work and 
ensure a presence and permanency at 
the Centre. 


Moreover, work meetings are orga- 
nized on a regular basis with the small 
group of 6 people who represent the 
nucleus of a_group.of leaders... These 
young people are learning how to 

pare, organize and lead meetir—es, 
facilitate activities and motivate young 
people. 
many other facets of leadership. Ml 


They are also discovering 


vide necessary assistance to the 
group at Centre St-Gérard, in Port- 
to World Vision, in 
Lagonave and to the Ferme de Lévy, 
in Camp-Perrin, in order to help them 


au-Prince, 


structure their youth centre projects. 
Our goal is to find partners to open 5 
youth centres over the next 5 years. 


The discussions with Mr. St. Louis, 
the lawyer responsible for our file on 
incorporation matters will be main- 
tained. We hope that the YMCA - 
Haiti will have a legal status as soo” 
as possible. Once we have comple- 
ted this phase, we will proceed with 
the official inauguration of the 
YMCA of Haiti, which will hopeful- 
ly occur in May 2002. 


2a el 


