M | | UL 


AFTER OFFICE HOURS 
Sir George Williams College 


Sir George Williams College 


OF THE MONTREAL Y. M. C. A. 


CO-EDUCATIONAL 


COLLEGE OF ARTS, SCIENCE AND COMMERCE 
(Evening) 


Three year programme, for high school graduates, leading to Diploma of Associate in Arts, Science 
or Commerce, Two year programme in Arts, Science, Commerce or Engineering, leading to Senior 
Matriculation. Single subjects, leading to certificate. 


EVENING HIGH SCHOOL 


Four year course leading to High School Diploma or Junior Matriculation. Qualifies for entrance to 
university or to evening College of Arts, Science and Commerce. Advanced standing granted for 
work completed in day high school. 


INSTITUTE OF BUSINESS AND TECHNOLOGY 
(Evening) 


Courses in Bookkeeping and Accounting, Business Arithmetic, Business English and Correspondence, 
Business Science, Chemistry, Electricity and Radio, English Conversation, French Conversation, 
Mechanical Drawing, Practical Mathematics, Shorthand, Slide Rule, Typewriting. Commercial and 


Technical certificates awarded. 


SCHOOL OF ART GRAMMAR SCHOOL 


Day and evening courses in drawing, colour, Evening courses, Grades V, VI, and VII. Pre- 
portraiture, etching, outdoor sketching, model- paring for high school entrance. Special classes 
ling and sculpture. for adults. 


DAY BUSINESS SCHOOL 


Business, stenographic and secretarial courses for young men and boys. Six to ten months course. 


For complete 64-page catalogue, address REGISTRAR 


1441 Drummond St., Montreal. MaArauette 8331 


Class in the Evening High School 


More than 1200 students each year attend the 
various schools of the Sir George Williams College. 
Of these, 500 are enrolled in the Evening High 
School. The College plant consists of 30 class- 
rooms, laboratories for physics, chemistry and biol- 
ogy, science lecture room, the Abner Kingman 
Memorial Hall, library, bookstore, and art studio. 
Staff of more than 50. The 150 different courses 
of the five evening schools are open to any man 
or woman, boy or girl. Ages of students range from 
13 to 50 years; separate classes for older students. 
The following pages present some phases of the 
programme of an educational institution which has 
been developed primarily for those who face the 
necessity of pursuing their education during the 
evening hours. 


Biology Laboratory 


Courses in biology are offered as single courses as 
well as a part of the regular High School and 
College programmes. Subjects included are intro- 
ductory biology, animal and plant biology, zoology, 
evolution and genetics. The laboratory, accommo- 
dating 30 students, is equipped with high-power 
microscopes for individual use, a wide variety of 
instruments, a modern microtome and accessories 
for the preparation of microscopic specimens, and 
a fine collection of microscope and lantern slides. 


This laboratory accommodates 40 students. A wide 
variety of courses is offered in the High School 
and College, as well as a number of single courses 
in the Institute. The chemistry equipment is un- 
usually complete. The three student tables are 
provided with individual lockers, A.C. and D.C. 
electricity, gas and water. Six chemical balances 
mounted on a special balance shelf are provided 
for student use. Fume chambers, six in number, 
fitted with shatter-proof sliding doors and a high 
velocity exhaust fan, make possible the perform- 
ance of experiments with noxious gases. 


Chemistry and Physics Laboratory 


> Mt ta 


Class in Electricity 


Classes in physics and electricity are held in the 
physics-chemistry laboratory. Over 500 students 
took courses in science during the last session. 
The physical equipment is diversified and includes 
apparatus for the elementary and advanced study 
of light, heat, sound and mechanics. It includes an 
optical disc, force table, vacuum-pressure pump, 
Atwood machine, alpha-ray track apparatus, high 
pressure boiler, etc. The electrical equipment is 
particularly fine and includes static electricity 
apparatus, wheatstone bridges, potentiometers, var- 
ious types of galvanometers, motors and dynamos, 
X-ray, high frequency apparatus, and a complete 
radio demonstration and experimental equipment. 


This room is used for lectures and demonstrations 
in various science courses and for popular lectures. 
Sixty tablet arm chairs, placed on a tiered floor, 
face the instructor’s demonstration table. This table 
is equipped with water, gas, D.C. and A.C. elec- 
tricity, and a complete set of demonstration appar- 
atus. In addition, the equipment includes two 
projection lanterns and screens, and a set of demon- 
stration charts for general science, physics, 
chemistry and biology. Special lighting arrange- 
ments make it possible for students to take notes 
and reproduce diagrams while the projection lan- 
tern is being used. 


Science Lecture Room 


Bookkeeping -and Accounting Class 


Included in the programme of the Institute of 
Business and Technology are many practical train- 
ing courses for those who have completed element- 
ary school, — Bookkeeping and Accounting, 
Business Arithmetic, Business English, Business 
Correspondence, Business Science, French Conver- 
sation, Shorthand and Typewriting. The College of 
Arts, Science and Commerce offers courses for 
high school graduates in Accountancy, Economics, 
Commercial Law, Business English and Reports, 
Credits and Collections, Financial Organization, 
Principles -ok Business: deto s son ee te ae 


. . . The Bookkeeping and Accounting room is 
provided with 40 special desks. The typewriting 
equipment consists of 30 machines of four standard 
makes. It is not necessary to enroll for more than 
one subject at a time, but many combinations of 
courses are available at reduced tuition rates. A two 
year programme in the Institute leads to the Com- 
mercial Certificate; a three programme in the 
College of Arts, Science and Commerce prepares 
for the Diploma of Associate in Commerce. Many 
of the business courses may be taken as a part of 
the General High School course. The Day Business 
School, for young men and boys, provides business, 
stenographic and secretarial courses. 


Typewriting Class 


Mechanical Drawing Room 


Among the courses offered in the Institute of 
Business and Technology are Mechanical Drawing, 
Machine Design, Chemistry, Electricity and Radio, 
Practical Mathematics and Slide Rule Computa- 
tions. These courses may be taken singly or in 
combinations leading to the Technical Certificate. 
The Mechanical Drawing Room is equipped with 
special drawing boards and T-squares, the student 
merely providing his own drawing instruments. 
The laboratories are used for the science courses. 


The High School prepares for junior matriculation, 
or for the general diploma which admits the stu- 
dent to the Evening College of Arts, Science and 
Commerce. The Grammar School provides work 
in Grades V, VI and VII, and prepares for en- 
trance to the Evening High School and to the 
Institute of Business and Technology. In the 
Grammar School there are special classes for adults 
who have been away from school for some years. 


Class in Mathematics 


The Library 


All students of the Sir George Williams College 
have the use of the library and reading rooms. The 
library is in charge of two trained librarians who 
will be glad to advise upon the choice of books, 
preparation of reading lists, etc. In addition to 
many reference books, there is a fine selection of 
standard and current fiction, and a wide assortment 
of periodicals. The library hours are 12.30 p.m. to 
10.00 p.m. 


THE SCHOOL OF ART, which offers day as 
well as evening classes, gives instruction in draw- 
ing, color—water color, pastel and oils,—portrai- 
ture, etching, outdoor sketching, sculpture and 
modelling. The Studio is provided with modern 
type easels and equipment. The School offers an 
opportunity for those who wish to follow Art as 
a hobby, and provides the basic training necessary 
for those who wish to adopt art as a career. All 
instruction is individual. | 


College Bookstore 


Personal 


One of the chief functions assumed by the staff of 
the College is that of counselling with students re- 
garding their educational and personal problems, 
and the selection of suitable courses of study. 
Thousands of interviews are held each year with 
young people and their parents. Those who have 
such problems should seek an interview with the 
Student Counsellor or some other member of the 
administrative staff. 


Guidance 


The executive offices of the College are located on 
the third floor of the building. The suite includes 
a waiting room, information desk, records office, 
and the offices of the Principal and Dean, Regis- 
trar and Bursar, and the Student Counsellor. The 
office hours are 9.00 a.m. to 9.30 p.m. (Saturday 
9.00 a.m. to 1.00 p.m.) From June 15th to Septem- 
ber 15th the hours are 9.00 a.m. to 5.00 p.m. 


Those desiring full information concerning the many 
educational programmes offered during the evenings 
should call, write or telephone for a copy of the 
complete 64-page catalogue-—Sir George Williams 
College, 1441 Drummond Street, Montreal. MAr- 
quette 8331, 


Executive Offices 


