<= 


CO rpaiagn 
coe 


4 


Today as never before they need the 


"Give a man a fish and he.eats for a day, 
Teach a man to fish and he eats for life" 


Our minimum campaign objective is $30,000. 
This is $32,000 more than we raised last year. 
It will not be an easy job but we can do it. 
The need for Funds is known to us all. 


The extra push in our 1968 campaign is to 
provide funds so that we can more effectively 
work with people, 
- Improved counselling service 
- Work with youth in "on the street" work 
situations 
- Work with young people towards cooperative 
solutions to today's problems 
Improved communication between generations 


Phase I of the campaign (advance gifts) 

is now underway. Returns are beginning 

to be received at the Metropolitan offices. 
Most Dividions are now contacting special 
names gifts, Board and staff, Commercial 
and Industrial supporters. 


MANPOWER - If you still have senior manpower 
problems - contact Lorne Main. He has been 
able to help several Divisions fill key 
leadership positions. 


IN PASSING - "The other night I dreamed I died, The pearly gates they 
opened wide, An angel ushered me inside, and there stood folk I'd 
known on earth, and counted them of little worth: But on their face 
was stark surprise, twas very plain to see, that no one standing in 
that crowd ------- could have expected me!" 


HAVE YOU 7? 


- Completed your recruitment for Phase II of the campaign ? 

- Forwarded your lists of people to be invited to the 
Opening Luncheon on February 13th to the Metro office ? 
(Required by January 29th) 

- Received all your campaign materials ? 

- Made a start on your advance gifts ? 


FOR YOUR USE AT METRO 


In assessing the potential - Audio-visual slide presentation on 
of your campaign cards, has WHY -THE "Y" 

the market survey material . Extra kits, cards, bulletin paper 

been helpful ? .- Campaign window posters 

% The slide presentation to date has been used by five Branches 


Replies so far have been favourable. Our thanks once again 
to John West and Bill Sher for their work. 


"Continued education is the gradual escalation from cocksure ignorance to thoughtful 
uncertainty" 
CREDITS FOR STORIES - "Stories To Sell By" - P. Norman Alexander 
Toronto Metro YMCA 


LITHO IN U.S.A. 


