Kors.) CAMPAIGN PROGRESS 


BULLETIN 


OF GREATER 


MONTREAL November 13, 1967 


NUMBER I 


All Divisions of our campaign organization have now secured their 
AT ', Divisional Chairmen. Many of them have completed all their top leadership 
WORK positions, such as, Regional, Area, Commercial, Industrial, and Special 
Names Chairmen. Recruitment of captains is underway . 


WHO'S WHO -- Enclosed with this bulletin is a roster of all our Key Campaign 
Personnel for your use and information. 


To you our special thanks and appreciation for your acceptance 
of this responsible position in our campaign organization. 


PROSPECT CARDS are now being prepared and will be ready by December 19th 
for all Divisions. 


PLEASE CHANGE OF MEETING DATE 
N.OTE Our next meeting of Divisional Chairmen which was scheduled for 
November 16th has been changed: 
FROM: Thursday, November 16th, 1967 
NEW MEETING: Monday, November 27th, 1967 
TIME: h:00 P.M. ~~ 5:30 P.M. 
PLACE: Downtown YMCA 
Our apologies for making this change b t several of our top 
leadership would be out of town and, therefore, not available. 
The postponement of our meeting date will probably be most 
helpful in enabling us to complete our total divisional 
organization before the next meeting. 
FOOD 
FOR Have you given thought to:- 
? HO UiGak tT 1. Your own divisional master schedule? 


2. Your divisional objective related to specific 
projects or branch subsidy? 

3. Development of a local or divisional sponsors list?. 

. Your plans for local Public Relations Program - 
such as, campaign folders, letters, and use of 
Press and Radio. 

5. Training plans for divisional canvassers. 


NEED FOR FUNDS Dur Planning and Development Seminar at Tremblant last week~ 
end clearly identified the critical needs of youth for today. 
To meet these needs increased financial resources are required. 
The success of our campaign will determine in a large way what 
we will be able to accomplish. 


DON'T FORGET Our next meeting date - NOVEMBER 27TH, and once again - our 
most sincere thanks. 


"Where youth are growing!” 


