v 


| 
D. You 


NEED TRAINING 


for a business career 


The Sir George Williams College Offers to Young Men 


and Women Several Programmes of Business Training 


Commercial Certificate 
Evening Course—Term Opens Sept. 19 


The Commercial Certificate of the Sir George Williams 
College immediately stamps a young man or young woman 
as possessing a thorough and superior business or secre- 
tarial training. Employers recognize the qualifications 
which it represents. Those who are unable to attend a 
day course may obtain the Commercial Certificate by 
means of evening study in the Institute of Business and 
Technology. The complete course requires only two 
evenings per week for two school years, and is open only 
to those who have at least an elementary school education 
or equivalent. The programme of study is as follows: 


Commercial Certificate Course—Evening 
First Year Second Year 


Business Arithmetic Business Sciencé 
Business English English 
Bookkeeping Bookkeeping 

or Shorthand or Shorthand 
Typewriting Public Speaking 


Many students, however, find a selection of one or two 
single subjects more suited to their needs. For these, the 
following unit courses are available: 


Bookkeeping & Accounting French Conversation 
Business Arithmetic Public Speaking 


Business English Electricity 
Shorthand Chemistry 
Typewriting Practical Mathematics 


Advertising Mechanical Drawing 
Business Science 


A two-year programme of technical studies leads to the 
Technical Certificate of the Sir George Williams College. 
Subjects included are:—Mechanical Drawing, Electricity, 
Chemistry, Physics, Practical Mathematics. Complete 
information regarding Certificate courses and single sub- 
jects is included in the general catalogue, which may be 
obtained from the Registrar. 


Commercial Certificate 
Day Course—Term Opens Sept. 6 


A young man may enter business with some assurance 
of success if, in addition to his general education, he has 
also had specialized training in business or secretarial work. 
With such training he is immediately useful to an em- 
ployer. The day Commercial Certificate course provides 
this training efficiently and expeditiously. Six to eight 
months is the average ingth of time required to complete 
the course. The Business Course includes, Bookkeeping 
and Accounting, Business English and Correspondence, 
Business. Arithmetic, Office Routine. The Stenographic 
Course includes, Shorthand, Typewriting, Business Eng- 
lish ‘and Correspondence, Business Arithmetic, Office 
Routine. The Secretarial Course combines the subjects 
of the two foregoing courses. 


Many high school graduates complete one of the above 
courses before entering business. Bendents with a high 
school education. may considerably shorten the time re- 
quired for, the completion of the.course. (Note: The day 
course-is,for young men and boys only). Complete par- 
ticulars are given in the general catalogue. 


Commercial High School 
Diploma 


Evening Course—Term Opens Oct. 3 


For those who desiré a more thorough general education, 
along with specific business training, the Evening High 
School Commercial Diploma Course is suggested. In this 
course the same training is given in Bookkeeping, Stenog- 
raphy, Mathematics, English, etc., as in the Commercial 
Certificate Course, but the student has the opportunity to 
add such subjects as Economics, Public Speaking, French 
Conversation, Science, English Literature, Current His- 
tory, etc. Only three evenings per week are required to 
complete the course. Those who have already completed 
part of their high school course are given equivalent credit, 
and courses are arranged to suit their needs. Graduation 
from the Evening High School qualifies for entrance to the 
College of Arts, Science and Commerce. Detailed informa- 
tion is given in the general catalogue. 


Associate in Commerce | 
Diploma 


Evening Course—Term Opens Oct. 3 


It frequently happens that those who are fully capable 
and desirous of profiting by a college education are de- 
prived of the opportunity to go to college because of lack 
of means. Many high school graduates, realizing that they 
cannot give up positions which are their only means of 
support, and go away to college for four years of study, 
abandon all hope of ever enjoying the benefits which a 
college education can provide. The Evening College of 
Arts, Science and Commerce meets the needs ‘of such 
young men and women. Three-year evening programmes 
inyolve only two or three evenings per week of class work, 
and lead to the Diploma of “Associate” in Commerce, or 
Arts, or Science. The course in Commerce is as follows: 


Diploma in Commerce Course’ 
First Year: Accountancy, Economics, English. 


Second Year: Accountancy or Advertising,'Prin- ‘ 
ciples of Business, Investments, 
Economic Geography. : 


Third Year: Financial Organization, Business ~ 
Psychology, Statistics and Chart- 
ing, Commercial Law, Cost. Ac- 
counting. 


For those who wish to take a general college course, or 
to specialize in Science, programmes are offered which 
include a selection from English Literature, German, 
French, Spanish, Biology, Zoology, Chemistry, Economics, 
Latin, Mathematics, History, Divide: Public Speaking, 
Electricity, Philosophy, Psychology, Sociology, and 
General Science. A student does not necessarily have 
to follow a complete programme, but may take any 
one or more subjects as single courses. 


Admission—Students who have been graduated from 
high school, or who have the equivalent of a high school 
education, and persons over 21 years of age who may not 
have satisfied the technical requirements for high school 
graduation but who have the capacity to do college work, 
are admitted to the College of Arts, Science and Commerce. 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS COLLEGE OF THE MONTREAL Y.M.C.A. 


1441 Drummond Street 


Montreal, Canada 


MArquette 8331 


Opportunity Always Exists 
for Trained Men and Women 


The demand for intelligent, ambitious young men and 
women who have had business training is well recognized, 
and will be greater in the near future, when business 
conditions begin to improve. Now is the time to prepare 
to take advantage of the better times which are sure to 
come. There has never been a surplus of well-trained 
Fava and the man or woman who is so qualified for a 

usiness career can look forward with confidence to his 
chances for future employment and promotion. 


For those who are already employed, evening commercial 
education provides the bist available opportunity of 
increasing their business efficiency and earning power 
without leaving their jobs. It enables them to secure 
additional skill in the work they are already doing, or to 
obtain training for other jobs. The ability to do more than 
one kind of work makes an employee doubly valuable, and 
increases his chances of securing a new position should 
occasion demand. 


Sound commercial training eliminates the long wasteful 
years of learning by experience. In so doing it gives the 
trained person a valuable advantage over those who trust 
to their experience alone to produce advancement. Com- 
mercial training at the Sir George Williams College is 
unexcelled, for the following reasons:— 


All classes are personally taught by qualified in- 
structors. Personal attention is given each student, and 
rapidity of progress is limited only by the capacity of the 
individual student himself. Educational authorities are 
agreed that a personally taught course, with the immediate 
stimulation of fellow class members and instructors, is 
better than any other method of business training. 


Courses are practical and adapted to the daily 
needs of the students. This is possible because of the 
wide variety of subjects and courses available in the 
six schools of the Sir George Williams College. 


There are 135 different courses from which to 
choose. Therefore, there are courses suitable for students 
of all ages and all degrees of previous education. The ages 
of students each year range from 14 to 55 years, and their 
educational status from elementary school to the university 
graduate degree. The numerous day and evening courses 
of the Sir George Williams College appeal to the following 
types of men and women:— 


1. Junior executives who realize the need of being 
constant students of business, in expectation of increased 
responsibilities. 

2. Junior clerical or secretarial workers who are am- 
bitious to get ahead more rapidly in business, to change 
their type of work, or to secure a general education in 
addition to their business course. 


3. Recent high school graduates, who desire a 
thorough business training before taking a permanent 
job, with the possibility of a college course at night 
while employed. 


4. Recent elementary school graduates, obliged 
to go to work, who wish to secure day or evening business 
training, and perhaps to complete high school at night. 


5. College graduates, who wish to study certain 
subjects which their university courses did not include. 


6. Technical workers, who desire further technical 
training, or an understanding of business as a background 
for their work or an opportunity for change. 


All business courses require only two evenings per 
week of class work, during the school year of eight 
months. The moderate tuition fees may be paid in in- 
stalments if desired. Full details on courses and fees 
in general catalogue, available from Registrar. 


Sir George Williams 
College of the Y.M.C.A. 


This School is the oldest business training institution 
in Montreal (inaugurated 1873). It has the largest 
staff (over 50 teachers), the greatest variety of courses 
(135 from which to choose). It is the only school in 
Montreal with a trained Student Counsellor, to confer 
with parents and students concerning suitable vocations 
and appropriate courses of study. Tuition fees extreme- 
ly moderate. Equipment includes 30 classrooms, 3 
science laboratories, 3 art studios, 2 lecture halls, 
library and specially equipped commercial and draught- 
ing rooms. A non-profit-making institution. Courses 
open to men and women, boys and girls. 


College of Arts, Science and 
Commerce 


Evening college-grade courses for men and women. 
Three-year programme for high school graduates lead- 
ing to Diploma of Associate in Arts, Science or Com 
merce. Special course leading to Senior Matriculation. 
Also single courses in Economics, Advertising, Public 
Speaking, Accountancy, French, Biology, Chemistry, 
Literature, Mathematics, European History, History of 
Civilization, Physics, Latin, German, Spanish, Nature 
of the World and Man, Psychology, etc. 


Evening High School 


Four-year course, to Graduation Diploma or Junior 
Matriculation. Courses in English, Mathematics, 
Physics, Chemistry, Biology, French, Latin, History, 
Economics, etc. Also commercial and technical subjects. 
Credit given for work done in day high school. 


Institute of Business and 
Technology 


Evening Courses in Accounting and Bookkeeping, 
Business Arithmetic, Business English and Corre- 
spondence, Business Science, Chemistry, Electricity, 

nglish (for French-speaking people), French Conver- 
sation, Mechanical Drawing, Practical Mathematics, 
Shorthand, Typewriting. so a DAY BUSINESS 
SCHOOL. 


Evening Grammar School 


Grades V, VI, VII. Special classes for adults. Pre- 
pares for high school entrance. 


School of Fine and Applied Art 


Day and evening courses. Professional and leisure 
time training in all branches of fine and commercial art. 
Drawing, painting, modelling and sculpture, poster 
design, failiton drawing, illustrating, advertising art. 
Four specialized instructors; 3 studios. 


For general catalogue, or School of Art 
prospectus, apply to Registrar, 1441 Drum- 
mond St., Montreal. MArquette 8331. 


