gota. 2 Memorandum °f the Early Beginnings of the 
Young Men's Christian Association Work on the 
Canadian Pacific Railwaye 


About the year 1890 I began to mail regularly to the officials of 
the Canadian Pacific Railway printed matter, including reports issued 
by the International Committee, showing the progress of their Asso- 
ciation work on behalf of the railroad men on the American lines. This 
publicity was followed by interviews with some of the officials. 


Winally T asked Mr. John Kennedy, who was a personal friend of Mr. 
William Van Horne (later Bir Yilliam Van Horne), then President of the 
Canadian Pacific Railway, to secure an interview in the interests of 
the Association work for railroad mene We met Mr. Van Horne and had 
the otportunity of explaining the progress already made by the Asso- 
ciation on the lines of the New York Central, the Michigan Central, 
and the Chesapeake and Shio roads; and presented letters from officiak 
of these roads indicating their approval of the work and their appre- 
ciation of the practical service which it had rendered to their employ 
ees at the points where it had been established. 


Sir Villiam's reply was to the effect that the railroad men on the 
whole were high grade men and he could not see the advantage of in- 
troducing the Association work. He advised us to apply the Assoc iation 
work to the lawyers as he stated they needed it, in his judgment, much, 
more than the employees of the railway. However, he agreed to take 
the matter under consideration, and also expressed his willingness to 
receive from time to time any reports which we might be able to send 
of the work on other lines. 

——ith-such an attitude.on the part of-the.President. ofethe Dead 4 
was not easy to secure the sympathetic interest of other officials. 


I interviewed Mr. Davig McNicoll when he became General Manager,» 
and brought the matter to his attention. 


T also interviewed Yr. Yilliam “hite (later Sir Villiam White) of 
“winnipeg, Manager of Yestern Lines, when on a visit to Montreal, and 
found him deeply interested in the progress of the work and willing 
to give the matter consideration. 


After I had been requested by the General Manager of the Grand 
Trunk Railway to make an investigation into the conditions of the men 
‘at the terminal points on their road, I took the liberty of sending a 
copy of this report to Mr. David McNicoll and explained to him whatwas 
now being done on the line of the Grank Trunk cailway. Nothing definie 
however, resulted from these interviews. 


In 1904 7 was asked to make a trip to Australia and New Zealand in 
the interests of the Association work inthose countries. TI called upa 
Mr. McNicoll and told him that if he desired I shoud be “tine” to mak 
a similar investigation to that which T had made on the (Gh DS. a.., 4 
Railway at the divisional points on the Canadian Pagific Railway. This 
T offered to do without any expense to the Company and, on the receipt 
of the report, he could take what action or make what use of it he 
thought best. 


= 
He stated he would consider the matter and if the Company decided to 
do anything hé would advise me on my arrival in Vancouver. 


On my return to Vancouver it was with no little eagerness that I 
went to the office of the Superintendent of the C.P.Re I found a letter 
from Mr. Vhite, Superintendent of Yestern Lines, asking me to make an 
investigation as to the condition of the men at the terminal points on 
their line and report to him on reaching Yinnipeg. He enclosed letters 


of introduction to the Superintendents at divisional points, asking them 
to give me every facility to make such an investigation. I visited the 
following divisional points on the road - Vancouver, Revelstoke, Nelson, 
Granbrook, Calgary, Medicine Hat, Moose Jaw, Brandon, Winnipeg, Rat 
Portage (now Xenora), Tort VYilliam and North Bay. (later on I made an 
investigation at Schreiber and Ghapleau, divisional points at the north 
of Take Superior). 


- On reaching Yinnipeg Mr. White invited me to take luncheon with him 
at the Manitoba Club, and in company with Mre Jas. Ae M. Eakin, now 
Sir James Eakin, who was then the solicitor of the Canadian Pacific 
Railway, we conferred at considerable length over the details of the 
report which I had submitted. Mr. White expressed his complete sympathy 
and his willingness to co-operate. He also stated that on his next 
visit to Montreal he would take the matter up with the President of the 
roade 


It is of interest to review my experience at Revelstoke, the second 
point on the line at which I stopped in making this investigation. I 
found Messrs. Fitzpatrick and Temple, the Superintendents in charge, 
sympathetic and they agreed to convene a meeting of the men at three 
@'clock in the afternoon at the station which seemed the only available 
place».The engineers, firemen, employees at the roundhouse and shopmen, 
were released and asked to attend the meeting. The little room in the 
station was altogether too small so we adjourned to the platform. I 
explained the nature of the work which the Association had been enabled 
to do at other points on railroad lines and sought to secure the sympathy 
and co-op-ration of the men, and then threw the meeting open for questions, 


The matter was freely discussed and it was finally resolved to name 
a small committee to take the matter under further consideration. Before 
leaving Revelstoke I called upon the merchants, shop-keepers and min- 
isters, advising them of our plan and soliciting their co-operation 
should this committee decide to go forward with the work. Mr. Re Howson 
in the furniture business, expressed very practical sympathy and ac- 
companied me on this visitation to the other business men of the towne 


Mr. Howson afterwards became Chairman of the Committee that raised 
the funds for the erection of the building, which was the first point 
opened on the line of the Canadian Pacific Railway, Mr. White agreeing 
to the request of the men by setting aside a lot upon which the building 
could be placed. 


In 1905 a Railroad Conference was held in Detroit. 1 approached Mr. 
MceNicoll in Montreal and advised him of this conference and asked if 
he would not be willing to send one of his Superintendents and thus 
have an independent report of the practical value of this work as it 
would be illustrated at such a gathering. I greatly regretted that he 
did not comply with this request. 


< -3- 


I advised the Revelstoke Committee 
they sent a delegate, Mr. Jack Lyons, 
ber of the Committee, and took a very 
of the funds among his fellow railway 
tion to Mr. Yhite at Winnipeg, Mr. 
Detroit and return and his attendance 
and developed his interest in the 


collections for the 


Movement that he went 
encouraged the Committee that they were able t carry 
building to 2 successful issue. 

President of the Association at Revelstoke in 1920 and is 


of the Detroit Convention and 

an engine driver, who was 4 mem- 
active interest in the raising 
men at Revelstoke. On applica- 


Lyons was given transportation to 


at that Convention so increased 
back and so 
through their 
Jack Lyons was 
still driv- 


ing the fast express irom Revelstoke to Field. The names of the men 
on this first Committee are as follows: 
T. Kilpatrick R. Howson JeHeLyons 
J. Lawson A. McIntyre W.Bews 
Je Ie Yoodrow W. H. Pratt R. Anthony 
Ae E. Miller H. Clarke C. Pe Hume 
He Creelman FP. He Bourne Re Urquhart 
Ae Ee Phipps M. Fe Crawford M. S. Hastings 
Je Goble Dr. Y. Morrison J. McLeod 
We Lawrence Re J. Rogers Re Gordon 
On my return to Montreal I submitted a copy of this report to Mr. 


David McNicoll, the General Managers 
consideration. 


“ith the exception 
occurred for some years; 
concerning making an 
on their lines - 


then Mr. 


An investigation was made at these points, 2 
to draw up plans which would be suit- 
This Mr. Paynter did, and after 


the C.P.Re architect Mr. Paynter, 
able for the begisning of the worke 
conference the buildings were erected 


Pacific Railway as there were practically 
directly or indirectly connected with the railwaye 


except those who were 


At Chapleau, Mr. 


of the action of the men 
McNicoll asked m- to confer with him 
investigation at two of the most difficult points 
Schreiber and Chapleau. 


who agreed to give the matter 


at Revelstoke no result 


1d Mr. McNicoll asked 


at the expense of the Canadian 
no residents at these centres 


Nicholson, who had been formerly an engine driver 


on the road but at that time was owner of a sawmill cutting ties and 


lumber for the railway, took a very 


great interest in the 
ana in the proposal to have a work started at Chapleau. 


investigation 
He become the 


first President, and it was largely through his interest and co-oper- 
ation that the work was successfully started at that pointe 


A similar building then followed at Schreiber and now there are 
Railroad Branches established on the line of the Canadian Pacific 


Railwa 
and approval of the officials, the 
ified itselfs 


Revelstoke, BeCe 
Cranbrook, BeCe 
“Pield, Be Ce 


at the following divisional points, all enjoying the co- 
work having so far more than just- 


Schreiber, Onte 
Chapleau, Onte 
White Rivers 


operation 


Cartier, Ont. 
Ignace, Onte 


Onte Kenora, Ont. 


Brownville Tunction, Mee 


a2 a mie 
sented to Mr- William 


I enclose a copy of the original report as p-e& 
David McNicoll with the exception of the investigation 


‘hite and Mr. 
at Chaleau and Schreiber which were made later and copies of which 
I regret cannot be found. 

(signed) De A- Budge 


(no date) ae 


we : | 
© pe qrenpeboveny, 
t) : f - rie Se Woergr™ 


\4. a Kor * oe wy 


