EDUCATION 


Can, bes an- 


ADVENTURE 


Some suggestions to men 
and women, both youn- 
ger and older, who are 
high school graduates- re- 
lating to the creative use 
of their evening hours. 


What 1w Education? 


Education in its truest and finest sense may be an adventure in 
creative living. At its highest level, education is not the mete 
impartation or reception of information or skills. It is the pro- 
cess by which persons grow, by which they are enabled to Jive 
significantly. 


Some things which good education enables people to do are: 
explore those things which they find of interest, remain per- 
meated with the play spirit during their work, respect persons 
holding diverse opinions, treat institutions and groups not as 
ends in themselvyes—but as means to human values, look upon 
differences between people as precious, consciously apply suitable 
standards of judgment to all their experiences, keep active a 
desire for continued growth, increase their capacity for further 
education, develop the capacity for self-direction, utilize all 
available resources for continued growth, help save for the group 
the best in the social heritage, introduce social changes without 
introducing disorder, freely change their ways in response to 
evaluation or criticism, relax the grip of authority of customs 
and traditions, integrate thinking and knowledge with activity, 
bind individuals together in cooperative human pursuits, en- 
courage the sharing of interests among all persons affected, 
break existing barriers between groups and foster harmonious 
relationships, bring into the open their real thoughts, master 
needed knowledges and skills—but subordinate these to social 
ends, effect changes in existing conditions, integrate knowledge 
with morals. 


Education is a way of life. It is an interesting way, an adven- 
turous way; it is a way which frees from enslaving tradition, 
tabu, narrow utilitarianism, conventionalism and passion. It is 
a way, however, which each person must discover for himself; 
one cannot pursue education vicariously. Education is the 
continuous reconstruction of experience, both individual and 
social. It is the experiencing which is educative. 


Two Major Misconceptions 


The foregoing description of some of the qualities of the educa- 
tional process immediately brings to a focus several fallacies in 
the conception of education which is held by many people. Of 
these two will be mentioned. 


The first, and most common, misconception is that education 
is a process which terminates at specified points—graduation 
from high school, from college, from the professional school— 
after which the man or woman enters a vocation, which becomes 
the chief concern of life. The major interest, from this so-called 
terminal point, is in ‘“‘getting on’’ in the world rather than in 
understanding and re-making it. The truth is that education is 
not a terminable process but is a process which is contempor- 
aneous with life itself. Education begins at the moment of 
birth and ends only with death. The problem for men and 
women is that of giving their education proper direction. Some 
adequate directions have been suggested on the previous page. 


A second, and almost equally common, misconception, is that 
education consists of the accumulation of specific bits of in- 
formation or the development of proficiency in narrow special- 
ized skills. True, information and skills are part of the equipment 
of an educated person, but they are means, not ends. The pro- 
foundest knowledge of subject-matter—in science, language or 
any other field—does not per se make an educated man or woman. 
Subject-matter is what one needs to know in order to do what 
one is interested in doing. Subject-matter becomes educational 
to the person when, if, and as he uses it in a purposeful activity. 
Some faecsibns in which purposeful activity may be found 
have been indicated under the heading What is Education? 


‘Pathways to Knowledge 


It has been suggested that subject-matter, or knowledge,—ideas, 
information, skills—becomes educational if it is used and as it 
is used in a purposeful activity. An activity with purpose is 
deliberate; activity which is deliberate involves a consciously 
foreseen end, and a mental weighing of the case for and against; 
it involves conscious desire for the end. Knowledge is a per- 
ception of those aspects of an object which determine its applic- 
ability in a given situation. The function of knowledge is to 
make one experience freely available in other experiences. 


The experimental method has re-made our theory of knowledge. 
It is the method of obtaining knowledge, i.e., discovery. It is the 
method of evaluating what we know, i.e., proof. The experi- 
mental method is a systematized means of making knowledge. 
The significance of the experimental method is generally regarded 
as belonging to technical, physical fields. However, it applies 
equally well to other fields, including the social and moral. 
Many people still want the crutch of dogma and authority to 
support them in their bel iefs—so avoiding the effort of thinking 
and the responsibility of acting as they think. They prefer to be 
halting followers rather than insatiable inquirers. 


With this view of the nature of knowledge, its discovery and 
use, it is now possible to suggest a few of the highways and 
byways where knowledge may be found. There are many path- 
ways, and perplexities not a few. The problem for a young man 
or woman of inquiring mind is that of selection. Not all know- 
ledge is equally valuable in forming the disposition of and 
supplying the equipment of the members of our present society. 


In selecting a field of knowledge for exploration one should use 
criteria of social worth (a number of such criteria are given in 
the statement on page 2; the reader can devise others). Es- 
sentials come first, refinements second. Essentials are those 
things which have to do with the experiences in which the 
widest groups of people share. The refinements are the things 
which deal with the needs of specialized groups and technical 
pursuits. 

Beyond this rough classification of knowledge into essentials 
and refinements one cannot go. It is not possible to say, in 
general, that one study is more valuable than another. A study 
of great worth in one specific situation may be one of least worth 
in another, like the choice between food and poetry. Further- 
more, each study, in one of its aspects, has an intrinsic value, 
which is unique, irreplaceable, marking a characteristic enrich- 
ment of life. 

Again, different studies do not have distinct sorts of instrumental 
values. To realize the instrumental value of a study, one must 
be placed in a specific situation requiring its use. To illustrate 
by the study of science: Among the possible instrumental values 
it may have are military, as an instrument of strengthening the 
means of offence and defence; technological, as an instrument 
of engineering; commercial, as an aid in the conduct of business 
or industry; philanthropic, rendering service in the relief of 
human suffering; conventional, helping to establish one’s 
social status as an ‘educated’ person. It would be arbitrary to 
select one of these values as the ‘real’ aim of science. 

The following pages suggest some areas of knowledge which offer op- 
portunity for fruitful and significant experiences on the part of those 


who possess open minds and a zest for discovery. These fields of study, 
and others, make possible continued and adventurous education. 


Chemistry 


A few illustrations, by no means exhaustive, will indicate the 
extent of the contribution of chemistry to human welfare: 


Power: Through the development of the ‘cracking’ process in 
the petroleum industry, ‘‘anti-knock’’ gasolene, distillation of 
shale oil, methods of producing petroleum from bituminous 
coal, conversion of coke into synthetic motor fuel, and many 
other discoveries, chemistry has contributed much and will 
contribute more to the provision of adequate power—which is 
the basis of all industry. To Agriculture chemistry has contributed 
a now widely used method of extracting and fixing atmospheric 
nitrogen, a chief constituent of artificial fertilizers; the Palo 
method for determining the butter-fat content of milk; many 
insecticides and fungicides; methods of increasing the pro- 
ductivity of soils, and the acceleration of ripening of crops. In 
Medicine the name of Pasteur is universally recognized, and there 
is little need of mentioning the vast army of successors to him 
who through chemistry are working co-operatively with other 
scientists to combat human disease. 


The story of synthetic chemistry is one of the romances of the 
modern age. Synthetic camphor has recently broken the Japanese 
monopoly; synthetic plasmochin threatens the Dutch East 
Indies monopoly of quinine; synthetic nitrogen has smashed the 
Chilean nitrate monopoly; there is a possibility of synthetic 
milk of uniform composition and superior nutritive qualities; 
synthetic leather is very widely Pi synthetic lacquers are 
revolutionizing the paint industry; synthetic alcohols, rubber, 
plastics and many other products are being produced from 
petroleum; synthetic antiseptics and drugs have made tremendous 
progress in medicine possible during the past fifty years; one of 
the most spectacular achievements of synthetic chemistry has 
been the development of Rayon, or artificial silk, and its close 
relative, cellophane. There are also countless synthetic perfumes 
and flavours. 


‘Physics 


During the past few years discoveries in the realm of physics 
have turned previous ideas of the nature of the physical world 
upside down. Even modern physicists, who have been dead 
but a few years as time goes—Lavoisier, Faraday, Maxwell, 
Kelvin—would find these discoveries to be almost .incredible. 
Even thirty years ago the leaders in the field believed physics 
to be a static science. They thought that all the fundamental 
principles had been discovered. 


Then came the revolution. The first X-ray poceraphe were 
published. Radio si to unfold a new field for physical re- 
search. The Curies discovered radium and the phenomenon of 
radio-activity, which has led to entirely new concepts of the 
structure of matter and the sources of radiant energy. Planck's 
quantum hypothesis has compromised the “‘impregnable’’ position 
of the wave theory of light. Michelson and Morley first cast 
doubts upon the existence of ether and indicated the impos- 
sibility oF absolute motion. Lord Rutherford and his associates 
have made true the alchemist’s dream, by battering the atoms 
of certain elements to pieces—thereby producing lighter elements 
from heavier ones. Einstein’s theory aieduciney, if valid, proves 
our universe to be finite, not infinite. According to Millikan, too, 
the cosmic rays indicate that elements in the utmost profusion 
are continually being born in inter-stellar space. The radiant 
energy of the stars is being converted into thie primordial stuff 
from which nebulae, suns and solar systems arise. 


There is much more. We do well to reflect, as Sir James Jeans 
tells us, ‘‘that mankind is at the very beginning of its existence; 
on the astronomical time-scale it has lived only a few brief 
minutes. It is hardly likely to interpret its surroundings aright 
in the first few moments its eyes are open.” 


‘Biology 


The biological sciences include those branches of knowledge 
which have to do with living things, in contrast to the physical 
sciences, which deal with inanimate objects. Biology has been 
called the Science of Life. Everything pertaining to the form, 
structure, function and behaviour of living organisms belongs 
in the realm of biology. 


One of the most engaging speculations in biology is the problem 
of the origin or beginning of life upon the earth. Another related 
and equally interesting problem is that of organic evolution. 
By this is meant the development of the myriads of animals and 
plants which are now found in the world, from the simpler 
early forms of life. Through study of the phenomenon of in- 
heritance, biological science seeks the solution to these and 
many related problems. 


Biology also leads to a wider understanding of the everyday 

roblems of how we live—the essentials of health, questions of 
oo the mechanism of the body. The science of biology 
attacks the practical problems of scientific agriculture, horti- 
culture, forestry, animal husbandry, fisheries, the control of 
insect life and the production of improved varieties of plants 
and animals. Modern medicine is based upon knowledge from 
the field of biology. 


To facilitate its study, biology is subdivided into a number of 
branches. The two main divisions are zoology, the science of 
animal life; and botany, the science of plant life. The intro- 
duction to biology is usually made through one or both of these 
divisions. A third branch is bacteriology, dealing with a group of 
living organisms which are neither typically plant nor animal 
in nature. 


‘Psychology 


Psychology is known as the science of behaviour. Formerly it was 
known as the science of human behaviour, but its field has been 
extended to include animals. 


Dr. Knight Dunlap, an eminent psychologist, defines the field 
of psychology as CE llowes “Psychology deals with perceiving, 
thinking, and feeling, and the acts which go with them or 
result from them or from parts of them. These are the great life 
processes, the ‘mental processes’ with which we are concerned. 
Psychology sets out first to discover the laws of their occurrence: 
under what circumstances this sort of perception occurs; under 
what circumstances that thought, that feeling, and how this 
or that type of action is built up. Finally, it seeks to find the 
way of improving the mental processes: how to make perception 
and thought more accurate; how to control feeling to the best 
advantage of the human being; and, more complexly, how to 
adjust the life processes of man to his environment and the 
environment to the life processes, in order that human life shall 
be more orderly, rich, and progressive.” 


There are a number of divisions within the field of psychology: 
normal psychology is the study of mental processes which occur 
so generally that they are called normal and practically satis- 
factory; abnormal psychology includes the unusual mental pro- 
cesses. While the insane fall in this group, so also do a very 
large number of people who are oom eat sane but who are 
emotionally unbalanced and are failing to make a proper adjust- 
ment to life in any of its aspects. ‘There are adult psychology, 
psychology of infancy, child psychology, psychology of adolescence, 
individual psychology, social psychology. There are a number of 
branches of applied psychology, including educational psychology, 
business psychology, psychology of religion. 


H. astory 


History is possibly the broadest field of knowledge of human 
interest. Its aim is to give an account of all that has been thought 
and done in the world. History has assumed, in modern times, 
a scientific approach and attempts to explain causes and 
effects—why man has thought and behaved as he has, and how 
our present society has arrived where it has. Gibbon, one of the 
great historians, a century and a half ago, declared it to be the 
duty of history to set forth ‘‘the truth, naked unblushing truth.”’ 
This ideal remains fundamental with the modern scientific 
historian. 


In the past history tended to be a rather narrow study. It dealt 
primarily with parliaments and kings, the church and the 
clergy, armies and wars. It had much to say of rulers and princes, 
but little of the lives of the common people. The modern view- 
point of history is greatly broadened. It is interested in what 
has been thought and done in art, religion, philosophy, and the 
world of nature; in the masses as well as the classes. It provides 
much of the material needed by the economists, sociologists, 
and psychologists, and also uses the findings of other social 
scientists in its work of interpreting the past. 


History provides a framework into which may be fitted the 
material of almost any other field of knowledge. It gives one a 
realization of the evolutionary process, as it applies to society. 
It makes possible the understanding of the present and provides 
guidance for the future. The study of history fosters the love of 
truth, seeing questions from several points of view, with a 
consequent sympathetic understanding of other creeds, races, 
nations and forms of government. 


10 


‘Philosophy 


Philosophy began when men began to think about things. It began 
when people became curious, when they doubted and questioned, 
challenged, speculated. It began when men no longer trusted, 
if they could help it, their sense experiences and emotions but, 
rather, began to depend upon thought. 

Philosophy is opposed to dogmatism, to closed-mindedness, to 
inability to see the other side. In many respects philosophy is 
a method, an attitude of mind, a dynamic process, rather than a 
static or fixed set of ideas. 

There can be a philosophy, or several philosophies, of almost 
anything so long as an open-minded and critical attitude is 
maintained. There are philosophies of politics, of law, of science, 
of religion, of education, of art, and of conduct. 


Philosophy began with the Greeks in the sixth and seventh 
centuries B.C. This was when the Greeks began to “‘think about 
things.’’ They had no physics, chemistry, or biology, little 
astronomy, some mathematics, but they did have religion, art, 
and politics. Some of the chief problems about which they 
thought were: (1) What is the fundamental stuff or substance 
out of which everything else is made? (2) What is the meaning 
or significance of what is now accepted by most philosophers 
as a fact, namely, that the universe is one of law and order; that 
it is a cosmos, not a chaos? (3) In what sense and to what extent 
is there purpose in the universe? (4) Is there a God, and, if there 
is, what is his nature? (5) The Problem of Values: Goodness, 
Evil, Beauty, Ugliness. (6) The Problem of Knowledge: the 
character of Knowing, Fact, and Truth. From these beginnings 
Philosophy has evolved. 


ll 


Economics 


Economics has been defined by Dr. Rexford Guy Tugwell as 
“the discovery and orderly stating of particular problems and 
the suggestion of solutions—the problems being roughly, but 
not closely, defined as those having to do with our ways of 
getting and using a living.” 


Never has there been a time more pregnant with opportunity 
for creative economic thinking than the present. The above- 
mentioned writer makes the following statements: ‘‘Poverty— 
even accompanied by down-right hunger—still torments vast 
numbers of people in the world. Nothing has been done toward 
softening the tragic paradox which Karl Marx, Henry George, 
and many lesser social critics have written about so bitterly; 
progress and poverty still are intimate corollaries. For there is 
the spectacle of factories idle and food going to waste on farms, 
while food, shelter and clothing, in adequate amounts, are 
lacking to many millions. And no one seems to know how to 
disembarrass the farmer of his surplus or how to start idle mills.”’ 


“The penalties of orthodoxy ‘are upon us now. The disparity 
between our social and mechanical institutions seems suddenly 
to be coming home to many minds. The economists are no 
longer so intrigued by their assumptions, having been made 
humble by facts; the mood of the world has changed and, 
especially among business men, faint glimmers of uncertainty 
begin to appear. Not infrequently we are all of us made to 
inquire whether what we are doing strictly for ourselves is, 
after all, and in the long run, good even for ourselves. It is this 
perception which is most salutary and which may presently 
give the newer economics a chance.”’ 


12 


Sociology 


Sociology is the study of society in the modern world, a study of 
contemporary civilization. It is concerned with such problems 
as: immigration, citizenship, community organization, war and 
peace, recreation, maladjustment and social attitudes, public 
opinion, social institutions, the family, population and food 
supply, social attitudes, birth rates, status of women, environ- 
ment as a social factor, human ecology, eugenics, races and 
nationalities, industrial relations, child welfare, standards of 
living, poverty, dependency, religion and religions, crime and 
penology, youth and society, intolerance, leadership, civilization. 


Professor Giddings, a well-known writer in the fieldof sociology, 
was once asked the question: Why study sociology? ‘‘We should 
study sociology,’’ he replied, ‘‘because it shows us how inex- 
haustibly interesting, as well as how complicated and often 
difficult, is the game of chess that we call life, and the importance 
of moves that are not obvious to untrained players.’’ And again 
‘sociology is frankly a Jiberal study, an indispensable part of 
so-called liberal education.’’ The objective of a vocational educa- 
tion being to learn how to do specific tasks, it differs from liberal 
education which is to learn how to think. ‘‘In learning how to 
think in a scientific spirit, soberly and dispassionately—about 
great human interests, and preparing ourselves to take part 
intelligently and responsibly in community life and in large 
public affairs.”’ 

At no time more than the present has there been such urgent need 
of intelligence in social affairs. The study of sociology will enable 
one to participate in an intelligent way in the reconstruction of 
contemporary society. 


13 


Literature 


Literature is the most intellectual of the fine arts. Yet many 
people are unable to appreciate and enjoy literature in its in- 
tellectual aspects. Many derive from a novel, a drama, or a 
oem, a certain direct sensory or emotional satisfaction, but 
Peele else. Recalling early school experiences with Shakespeare, 
or Milton’s L’ Allegro, men and women are heard to say: ‘‘I 
cannot enjoy literature if I attempt to make an analysis of it, 
take the time and trouble to discover the precise meaning of 
words, or study the writer's style or his methods of portraying 
character.” 


The reply to such comments is that pleasure at the sensory or 
emotional level may be supplemented and enhanced by intelligent 
understanding of the sources of such pleasure, and discrimination 
of its peculiar quality. This is education of the senses, and leads 
to further education. In literature, as in all art, there is com- 
munication from the artist to the audience of something which 
has been experienced or imagined; and this communication is 
intellectual , pa mind to mind. 


The study of literature, as distinct from mere reading, may be 
approached from three points of view: First, a consideration of 
the artist as a person—his native endowment and experience, his 
views of the world in which he lived, his relations with people, 
his thoughts about them and about himself. His writings were 
the result of these things. Second, a consideration of the manner of 
people these others were—their way of life, their interests and 
ideals. Third, a consideration of the art, or technique, of the 
artist. This is a matter principally of the language and second- 
arily of the forms in which he uses it, in poetry or prose. The 
artist's technique is an aspect of his own experience and is also 
influenced by the social conditions of his time. The study of 
these three aspects should proceed simultaneously. 


14 


Modern Lan guages 


The Germans group under the term Kultursprachen (“Languages 
of Civilization’), English, French and German, the mother 
countries of which they consider have contributed most to the 
culture of our present western civilization. These countries 
have created our aesthetic values, manners and morals, and much 
of our historical, technical, and scientific material and works 
of fine literature. Other languages, of course, could be added to 
this group. 


The power to read, if not to speak, any one of these languages 
easily brings one close to the life of a people who are similar to 
ourselves in many respects, but different in others. One of the 
great unifying forces of humankind is the realization—achieved 
through native speech and literature—that the folk of other 
nations are meeting with the same problems, economic, religious, 
political, social, scientific, and aesthetic, as we ourselves. They 
may be approaching their problems with different methods and 
different aims, but we may learn much from their experiences— 
both successful and unsuccessful. 


Careful experiment has shown that the man or woman of twenty- 
five to thirty-five can learn a new language more rapidly and 
more thoroughly than can a child of ten to fifteen. The difficulties 
of learning a new language have been greatly exaggerated. 
Those for whom English is the mother tongue have a great 
advantage in learning either French, German or Spanish, for 
the development of English is closely related to these three. 


15 


She Fine —Arts 


There are numerous forms of expression in art. Architecture is 
both an art and a science. Within its scope must be included the 
Parthenon and the peasant’s home, the cathedral and the factory, 
if they are all expressions of the highest will and desire of their 
builders. Sculpture is a plastic art. In sculpture men have shaped 
clay, wood, stone, bronze, bone, ivory, and recently soap, in 
forms that have satisfied them. The bone carvings of Cromagnon 
man, the wooden figures of the African, the totems of the North 
American Indian, the clay figurines of China and the Hellenistic 
age, as well as the figures of Athenian youths and maidens, the 
carvings of Gothic cathedrals, and the decoration of modern 
skyscrapers—all are sculpture. Other forms of sculpture are 
medals, cut gems, and coins, as is also furniture—a Greek chair, a 
Renaissance pulpit, a Louis XVth mantelpiece. 


Pottery, enamelwork, and mosaics fall in the group of graphic arts, 
as do modern colour-printing, wood-block engraving and 
etching. Photography, also, has great possibilities for artistic 
expression. Drawing goes back to remote scratchings on bone, 
stone and clay, since which time it has been enriched by addi- 
tional media such as brush-work, crayon, charcoal, pen and 
pencil. 


Painting has had its development through the vase painting, wall 
frescoes, and tempera panels of Egypt, Greece, Rome, the Middle 
Ages, and the Renaissance, the glazed and painted tiles of Meso- 
ta and the book illumination of the middle ages, through the 

evelopment of water-colour painting in the XVIIIth century, right 
down to the attempt at the formation of a distinctive Canadian 
school of painting by the Group of Seven. 


16 


cAn- Evening 
(College of Arts, 


Sciences, and Commerce 


In its Evening College of Arts, Science, and Commerce the Sir 
George Williams College provides a programme of adult edu- 
cation for those who, during the day, are engaged in making a 
living. 
The courses of study, listed on the following page, the science 
laboratories and other special equipment, have been provided 
particularly for those who wish to study during the evening 
hours. The members of the professorial staff are selected upon 
the basis of their sympathetic understanding of the special 
aioe of part-time education, as well as for their special 
nowledge and abilities. 
The standard of achievement demanded in the courses is strictly 
that of the day college or university. The courses are regular 
college courses given during the evening hours. 
Any mature person, younger or older, may obtain admission to 
the College providing he or she can show evidence of sufficient 
background to give reasonable assurance of successful participa- 
tion in the particular course of study in which he or she is in- 
terested. For those who wish to obtain the Diploma of Associate 
in Arts, or Science, or Commerce, high school graduation or its 
equivalent is required. In unusual circumstances, an ex- 
ception may be made to this last regulation—providing the 
student can pass a special examination of ability and present 
evidence of proper background. 
Special programmes are available for those who wish to prepare 
for the Senior Matriculation examination of McGill or other 
Universities. By completing such a programme a student may 
enter the second year of the day university. 


17 


Courses of Study 


Offered in the Evening College of Aris Science, and Commerce 


Each course, except a laboratory course, is held one evening 
each week for a period of two hours. It is possible to follow two 
courses on the same evening. Laboratory courses, marked *, 
are held on two evenings each week, two hours each evening. 


General Science: The Nature of the World; The Nature of Man. 
Biology: General Biology*; Animal Biology*; Vertebrate 
Zoology*; Plant Biology*; Genetics and Evolution. Chemistry: 
General Chemistry*; Qualitative Analysis*; Quantitative 
Analysis*; Organic Chemistry*; Industrial Chemistry. Physics: 
Mechanics, Electricity and Magnetism*; Sound, Heat and 
Light*; Electricity*. Mathematics: Senior Matriculation 
Mathematics; Introduction to Statistics. English Language: 
Senior Matriculation English; Survey of English Literature; 
Contemporary English Novel; Business English and Reports; 
Public Speaking. Modern Languages: French Language and 
Literature; German Language and Literature; Spanish ere 
and Literature. Latin: Senior Matriculation Latin. astory: 
History of Civilization; European History. Philosophy: Intro- 
duction to Philosophy. Psychology: Elementary Psychology; 
Social Psychology; Applied Pay noloRy Sociology: Introduction 
to Sociology; The Family. Edsecatzon: Introduction to Educa- 
tion; Principles of Religious Education; Curriculum and Practice 
in Religious Education. Fine and Applied Art: Drawing; Water- 
Colour and Oil painting; Etching and Wood-Cutting; Modelling 
and Sculpture; Commercial Art. Economics and Commerce: 
Principles of Economics; Contemporary Economic Problems; 
Economic History; Economic Geography; Principles of Business; 
Financial Organization; Investments; Advertising; Accountancy. 


An outline of the field covered in each of the above courses is given in the 
current catalogue of the College. A special catalogue is issued describing 
the work offered in Fine and Applied Art. Either catalogue will be 
supplied upon request by the Registrar. 


18 


“‘Diploma— of Associate,’ 


For those who can give two or three evenings per week to study, 
and who are willing to spend a period of three years in pursuing 
a systematic and well-balanced programme of studies, the 
Evening College of Arts, Science, and Commerce offers a diploma 
course leading to the College Diploma of Associate in Arts, or 
Science, or Commerce—depending upon the field in which the 
student does the major part of his or her study. 


This three-year course is the equivalent, in classroom hours 
and courses, to two years of day university work. Following 
the practice of Harvard University and many other institutions, 
the successful completion of this led of the course is recognized 
by the award of the diploma and title of ‘Associate’. 


Details of the required and optional courses in these diploma 
programmes are given in the general catalogue. 


Students who wish to complete one year of university work, 
in the evenings, so shortening their day course by one year, are 
prepared for the Senior Matriculation Examination of McGill 
University—in Arts, Science, Commerce, or Engineering. Success- 
ful students are awarded the Senior Matriculation Certificate, 
which qualifies them for admission to the second year of most 


~ 


colleges and universities. 


Students who complete successfully any single course in the 
College of Arts, Science and Commerce are awarded a Course 
Certificate for that particular course. 


For further information communicate with or interview 


F. O. Stredder, M.A., Ph.D. ov Kenneth E. Norris, M.A. 
Dean Registrar 


College of Arts, Science, and Commerce 


Sir George Williams College of the Montreal Y.M.C.A. 
1441 Drummond Street Montreal, Canada 


