Historical Sketch 


of the 


Young Men's Christian Association 


of the City of Montreal 


1851-1901. 


Presented at the Jubilee Celebration, June 8-10, 190. 


1851-1901. 


Historical Sketch 


Young Men’s Christian Association 


of Montreal. 


Organized, November 25th, 1851, 
In the St. Helen Street Baptist Church. 


Presented at Jubilee Celebration, Montreal, 


June 8th, 1901. 


HISTORICAL SKETCH 


OF THE 


YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION 


OF THE CITY OF MONTREAL. 


The period from 1851 to 1873 when the first Building on Victoria 
Square was erected and occupied. 


The organization of the first Young Men’s Christian Asso- 
ciation on this continent owes its origin to the Christian 
earnestness and zeal of a few young men who had been 
members of the Young Men’s Society founded by David 
Nasmith, of Glasgow, when on a visit to America. While in 
London on a business trip, one of these young men had 
witnessed the good results which had followed the London 
Association, and on his return to Montreal the question was 
discussed among his friends, and finally a meeting was called 
on Nov. 19, 1851, in the St. Helen Street Baptist Church, to 
consider the practicability of forming a Young Men's 
Christian Association on the London plan. Amongst those 
present when it was decided to issue the call for the meeting 
of Nov. 19th, were. Messrs. F. E. Grafton, T. James Claxton, 
W.G. Milne, F. H. Marling, and John Holland. Mr. 
F, H. Marling, then a student in the Congregational 
College, and in charge of Gosford Street Church, was 
chairman of the meeting on Nov. 19th, at which a resolution 
was adopted appointing a provisional committee consisting of 
two young men from each of the evangelical churches, with 


2 

instructions to ascertain the number of young men in their 
respective churches likely to join such an Association, to draft 
a suitable Constitution, and to report the same at a meeting 
to be held at the same place on Nov. 25th, 1851. Mr. FP. H. 
Marling was chairman of this committee, which consisted of 
24 members, <A canvass of the churches was made and a 
Constitution was drafted and submitted to the meeting on 
Noy. 25th and adopted. The title‘ Montreal Young Men's 
Christian Association” was chosen. No provision was made 
for the classification of members, but it required that “all 
young men who would sign the Constitution should be eligible 
for membership.” It was understood that the officers should 
be chosen from those who were members of the churches. 
The membership fee was placed at two shillings and sixpence 
per annum, and it was to be an optional matter with members 
as to making a larger contribution. 

Article II of the Constitution says:—Its object shall be— 
The religious and mental improvement of its members, especi- 
ally in connection with the study of the Scriptures, the union 
of young men of various churches in various plans of useful- 
ness, and the providing of means by which young men coming 
as strangers to the city may be brought under religious 
influences. 

Article II] —This Association adopts as the basis of all its 
proceedings those fundamental principles of evangelical 
Christianity on which all orthodox Protestant churches are 
agreed, and will never admit any intermeddling with those 
matters of faith and polity on which such churches differ. 

The Provisional Committee and others in the meeting 
signed this Constitution, and thus constituted themselves the 
first members of the Young Men’s Christian Association of 
Montreal. It was decided to hold a meeting on Dec. 9th, for 
the election of officers and other business, and at that 
meeting Mr. J. H. Winn was elected the first President, and 
Mr. F. H. Marling, Secretary, and Mr. P.W. Wood, Treasurer, 
The Managing »Board was called a “ General Committee.” 
The Oddfellows’ Hall, St. James Street, was rented for its 


weekly meeting, and the Rev. Donald Fraser, Pastor of Coté 


T. James Claxton, Rev. F. H. Marling, 
Charter Member and President for 11 years. Charter Member and Secretary, 1851. 


F. E. Grafton, Peter W. Wood, 
Charter Member and President, 1860-1861. First Treasurer, 1851. 


a4 
v 


Street Presbyterian Church, delivered the inaugural lecture to 
a large audience on Dec. 18th, 1851. 


The Work Outlined. 


During the earlier months of the Association the meetings 
were principally of a religious and literary character, but at 
the first Annual Meeting in 1852, it was urged that more 
aggressive efforts be put forth, and a Committee was named 
to consider and report upon a plan to better advance the 
objects of the Association. This Committee reported as 
follows :— 


Ist. That sub-committees be named for each church in the city, 
whose special duty it shall be to induce every young man connected 
with these churches to join the Association. 

and. That each member must realize his personal responsibility to 
do all that in him lies to promote the best interests of his fellow- 
members, and the young men with whom he is connected in 
business, and to be much in prayer that his efforts may be owned and 
blessed of God. 

3rd. That a room in the central part of the city be secured, suit- 
able for the Association, and that a person employed by the Asso- 
ciation be in attendance at stated hours to meet all who come, and 
to give information. This room should be supplied with British, 
American and Provincial newspapers for the use of members and 
visitors. 

4th. Donations of books should be secured for the formation of a 
Library. 

5th. Greater publicity should be given to the existence of the 
Association, and circulars should be printed stating the objects 
and nature of the society, and these should be forwarded to editors of 
newspapers and ministers of the gospel, in Great Britain, United States 
and the Provinces, with a request that young men coming to Montreal 
be invited to communicate with the Association, and that such 
circulars be placed in the railway stations, on board steamers, and 
on lines of travel leading to the city. 

6th. That a City Missionary be appointed, and that the London 
City Mission be communicated with to secure a suitable man for 
this purpose. 

7th. That this Committee at once be instructed to ascertain the 
amount which can be secured from the members towards carrying 
out these objects. In their opinion an annual income of not less 
than two hundred pounds would be required, and while they admit 


4 


that this is a formidable obstacle, still they are confident that by self- 
denial and increased activity on the part of the members, and a 
measure of liberality from the churches, the difficulty could be 
surmounted, and a great amount of good accomplished, with God’s 
blessing, the measure of which at present it is difficult to conceive. 

This report was adopted, collectors appointed, and funds 
secured. It was difficult to obtain a suitable missionary, and 
in June 1853, Mr. W. Greenfield, a member of the Associa- 
tion, was secured to devote a portion of his time, while he was 
preparing for the ministry. In October, 1853, Mr. Samuel 
Massey was sent out by the Manchester City Mission, and he 
labored with great acceptance as missionary of this Associa- 
tion for many years. 

Mr. John Holland, one of the members of the Preliminary 
Committee of Organization, removed to Toronto in 1853, and 
in December of that year he was instrumental in the forma- 
tion of the first Association in that city. 

In 1854 the Committee decided to take steps toward 
entering more fully upon the legitimate work of the Young 
Men’s Christian Association, and strongly advised that as far 
as practicable the Association should be separated from the 
city mission. This was done because it was being absorbed 
by the city mission work, and but little effort was put forth to 
meet the needs of the young men. They found that members 
would not come to dingy, uncomfortable rooms simply for the 
purpose of meeting strangers. It was also decided to make a 
canvas of the city merchants, in order to ascertain what 
amount each would subscribe annually towards its support. 

In 1854 changes were made in the Constitution classifying 
the members and placing the entire control of the Association 
in the hands of the active membership, thus defined as 
members in good standing of evangelical churches. 


Confederation of Associations. 


In the same year the voluntary Confederation of the Asso- 
ciations of the United States and British Provinces was 
formed, and in ‘January, 1855, the Montreal Association gave 


St. Helen Street Baptist Church, where the Montreal Association 


was organized November 25, 1851. 


Bible House, corner Craig and Alexander Streets, 


occupied by Association, 1867 to 1873. 


o 


its adhesion to this Confederation. The two salient points in 
the Confederation of the Associations being:— 

tst. That the Coniederation shall not legislate for, nor exercise 
authority over, the local Association. 

end. That the Associations of which it is composed in their rela- 
tions to it and to one another, shall be placed upon an equal and 
independent footing. 

In 1855 the General Committee issued instructions that a 
room be secured for not more than £15 a year rental, and that 
£14 be spent in furnishings. Through the donation of a 
friend a Library of 300 volumes was secured. 


The Paris Basis. 


During this year the European Associations met in Confer- 
ence in Paris, France, and adopted a basis of union which had 
a most important bearing upon the future history of the 
movement and is universally accepted to-day. It is called 
the “ Paris Basis,’ and reads as follows..— 

“The Young Men’s Christian Association seeks to unite those 
young men who, regarding Jesus Christ as their God and Saviour 
according to the Holy Scriptures, desire to be His disciples in their 
doctrine and their life, and to associate their efforts for the extension 
of His kingdom amongst young men.” 

The third Annual Conference of the Confederated Associa- 
tions of America met in Montreal on June 19-21, 1856, and 
adopted the above basis of union, so that this city was not only 
the birthplace of this organization on this Continent, but it 
was at the Convention held in Montreal that this basis of union 
was adopted which has since bound all the Associations 
together. 

At this Convention 75 delegates were present, representing 
23 Associations, besides 12 delegates from Boston, Portland 
and New York Associations, which had not at that time 
entered the Confederation. 

At this early period in the history of the organization the 
physical work came up for discussion and the following 
resolutions were adopted, which practically forms the basis of 
the work at the present time :— 


6 


Ist. That as bodily health is intimately connected with mental and 
spiritual activity and development, anything which conduces to the 
same must be beneficial. 

2nd. That when properly conducted, gymnasiums, baths, and 
bowling alleys are beneficial to bodily health and physical develop- 
ment. 

3rd. That the public sentiment in many of our cities in regard to 
bowling alleys renders it inexpedient for the Convention to recom- 
mend their establishment. 

4th. That this Convention approves of every proper means being 
used by the Associations for interesting and improving the young 
men of our cities, and of thus drawing under good and Christian 
influences those whose hearts have not yet been given to the 
Saviour. 

5th. That this Convention recommends to the Associations whose 
circumstances render it practicable, the establishment of gymnasiums 
and baths, to be as far as possible self-supporting, that is, to be 
maintained apart from the regular dues of the Association. 

In this year the Association moved to 205 Notre Dame 
Street, where larger and better accommodation was secured. 
This resulted in an increase in the membership, which reached 
205. A lecture course was started and continued for many 
years. The rooms were opened each afternoon except Sunday 
from 5 to 10 o'clock; a Bible class was started for young men, 
also one for youths; a Membership Committee was organized, 
and employment work started. 

The report of that year gives a list of members, amongst 
whom we notice : — Chas. Alexander, James Baylis, Alex. 
Milloy, Geo. S. Brush, T. James Claxton, Alexander Clarke, 
J. P. Cleghorn, Geo. Childs, Wm. Cooper, Alex. Craig, Jacob 
DeWitt, David Bentley, Robert Gardner, F. E. Grafton, E. K. 
Greene, Alexander Harte, W. R. Hibbard, Robt. Irwin, Fred 
W. Kay, James Knox, James Farie, Joseph Learmont, S. H. 
Burnett, Thos. Leeming, John Louson, Theo. Lyman, Wm. 
McDunnough, Alex. McGibbon, Samuel Massey, Geo. May, 
John Murphy, William Muir, G. B. Muir, R. S. Oliver, Dr. 
Reddy, Wm. Robb, James Whitham, N. S. Whitney, J. H. 
Winn, Peter W. Wood, John Warnock, George Young, A. A. 
Stevenson, Robt. Dow, Henry Drummond, Kenneth Camp- 
bell, Henry Morton, S. B. Scott, Jos. Tees, James Walker, 
T. M. Taylor, Richard Matthews, William Dickson, Richard 


J. H. Winn, First President, 1851. 
E. T. Taylor, President, 1852. George Childs, President, 1853-1854. 


4 


‘ 


Holland, P. S. Ross, R. A. Becket, Jos. Rielle, John Wilson, 
H. A. Nelson, Alfred Savage, John Torrance, Jr., David Tees, 
John Dougall, R. C. Jamieson, William Hodgson, John Lewis, 
W. C. Wyatt. 

In 1857 the contributions to the Mission Fund enabled 
them to employ an additional missionary, and Mr. Musgrove 
was selected. A French Bible class was added to the other 
meetings. The library was enlarged, and general enthusiasm 
displayed in connection with the work. 


Montreal withdraws from the Confederation. 


In this year the “ Slavery question” was prominent, and on 
Feb. 10th a resolution was introduced in the Montreal Asso- 
ciation declaring that slave-holders, or those in sympathy 
with them, were ineligible for membership. While the 
majority approved of this resolution, decision was deferred 
until the call of the next International Convention. This was 
finally announced for Richmond, Va., and. the Montreal 
Association was asked to vote on the same. After much 
discussion on the subject it was 

Resolved : “ That the Montreal Association cannot vote for 
Richmond, Va. as the place of next Convention, and as 
southern Associations which reject Christian young men of 
color from membership, are connected with this Confederation, 
therefore this Association resigns its connection with this 
Confederation as at present constituted.” 

A circular was prepared and issued calling for the formation 
of a new union of the Associations on the above resolution. 
This circular was widely circulated in Great Britain and the 
United States, and responses came from all sections. The 
Associations at Kingston and Halifax followed the Montreal 
Association, and the Washington and San Francisco Associa- 
tions,—while not withdrawing from the Confederation,— 
expressed their sympathy with the Montreal Association on 
this question. 

In the year 1858 there appears to be a decline in the work. 
The Association was compelled to leave their rooms on St. 
James Street, and they removed to 90 McGill Street, at a 


8 


rental of £65 per annum, this included the missionary’s 
residence. 

In this year the proposal to erect a suitable Building was 
considered on account of the frequent removals. This 
Building was to include the general religious societies of the 
city. No definite action was, however, taken. 

Principal Dawson, of McGill University, appears as a 
lecturer for the Association at this time, and he continued a 
most efficient member and worker until his death in 1899. 

A daily noon meeting was established, and was afterwards 
moved to a larger room in the Mechanics’ Hall. 

Great interest was taken in young men coming as strangers 
to the city, and especially in the work among the sailors, the 
missionaries and their helpers visiting all the ships, and 
holding Bethel services every Sunday afternoon. 1,150 
visits to ships were made, 60 services held, and 140 Bibles 
furnished to sailors, besides the large numbers of tracts 
distributed. The need of a “ Bethel” amongst seamen was 
felt, and a petition was addressed to the Lords of Admiralty, 
presenting the facts of the case and asking for an old “ war 
ship” which the Association would suitably fit up for such 
purposes. This petition was favorably received, and a 
dismantled vessel offered, but the expense of fitting up and 
bringing it to this port was found to be so great, that the 
plan was finally abandoned. 

In this year Mr. John Milne was engaged as city missionary, 
and continued until after the erection of the Victoria Square 
Building. 


A Dark Period. 


From 1859—1862 very little was done for young men apart 
from the city mission work. It was a very dark period in the 
history of the Association. The membership was decreased 
so that for some time it was impossible even to secure a 
quorum. At this time, when it was at the lowest point, the 
Association occupied a room in the Mechanics’ Institute, 
having use of the same for one hour each day and Tuesday 
evenings, for which they paid $10.00 per month. On Nov. 


Major General Russell, one of the Leaders, 1865-70. 


John Millen, City Missionary, appointed 1858. 


{) 


Ist, 1862, the Association was homeless. Finally a meeting to 
consider the question of disbanding the Association was held 
on Noy. 17th, 1862. Mr. F. E. Grafton was chairman, and 
only nine members were present, all of whom were in‘favor of 
continuing the Association. New officers were appointed, with 
Mr. Thomas Leeming as President, new members secured, and 
two rooms obtained over the Bank of Upper Canada, on St. 
James Street, at a rental of £50 per annum. The membership 
was increased to 200, new life followed, and greater activity 
prevailed in all departments. 

This close approach to the death of the Association proved 
to be the stimulus which marked the beginning of a vigorous 
future work, which has continued to this present time. 

This new era had just gotten under way when a fire occurred 
in the building, damaging the furnishings of the Association, 
and in May, 1863, a new suite of rooms was secured adjoining 
the Post Office. The activity in all the branches of the work 
continued. | Every evening was set apart for some special 
work at the rooms. French and music classes were formed, 
debates and literary evenings were planned, the Bible classes 
and devotional meetings were sustained, besides the city 
mission work and the employment work for young men. A 
Reference Library containing 300 volumes was added, and the 
Circulating Library increased to 1,376 volumes. 


The Chicago Convention. Montreal re-enters the Confederation. 


In this year the Chicago Association issued a call for an 
“International Convention.” The last session of the “ Con- 
federated Associations” had been held in New Orleans in 
1860, and the next Convention was called for St. Louis, but 
the Civil War having broken out in the meantime, it was 
deemed unsafe to hold the Convention at that point, and it 
was postponed. The Civil War broke up the old Confedera- 
tion of Associations, as several States were in rebellion against 
the United States Government. It was decided to organize 
upon a new basis, by inviting all the.Associations of the Loyal 
States and British Provinces to send delegates to Chicago. 
The invitation was accepted, and the Montreal Association 


10 


sent three delegates, with power to invite the next Conven- 
tion to meet in Montreal, provided such amendments were 
made as they could accept. 

This Convention adopted strong resolutions condemning 
slave holding principles, which was termed “the sum of all 
villanies.” A reunion was effected here, and the full recog- 
nition of the rights of all Christian brethren to meet on terms 
of common equality, without reference to color, was granted. 
In this important matter the Montreal delegation took a very 
important part. ‘ 

In 1864 the increased activity continued, and new and 
enlarged quarters were secured on St. James Street. . The 
city was divided into 13 districts for mission work, a thorough 
organization was carried out and 20 meetings held weekly. 
The Sunday evening meeting on College Street was transfer- 
red to Nazareth Street. This important mission was 
afterwards taken over by one of the city churches, and still 
continues an active work. The seamen’s mission was most 
aggressively prosecuted, and small libraries were sent out with 
ships, to be exchanged on the return voyage. This was very 
greatly appreciated by the sailors. The present Sailors’ 
institute was founded by a member of this Association, and 
was an outgrowth of this work. 

The work now became such a heavy burden upon the 
honorary officers, and the claims of young men, especially 
strangers, increased so rapidly, that it was resolved to engage 
a General Secretary, to have special charge of the work for 
young men, and Mr. Atrrep SANDHAM was secured, who 
continued in the position until March, 1874, when he was 
succeeded by the present Secretary, Mr. D. A. Bunce. 

To the International Convention held in Boston on June 
11, 1864, the Montreal Association sent eleven delegates. 
Their report indicated one of the principal deliverances of the 
Convention to be that, “whatever occasional or general 
efforts the Association might undertake, they should clearly 
recognize their special sphere to be work for young men.” 
From this time the mission work as carried on by the 
Association was transferred wherever possible to the various 


James Baylis, President, 1855. 


George S. Brush, President, 1857-58. 


Alex. Milloy, President, 1859. 


li 


churches, and more interest and effort given to definite work 
for young men. 


The First Militia Camp work. 


In 1865, the membership increased to 490, and the amount 
received from subscriptions to $2,816. This was the year of 
the Fenian Raid, and the Montreal Association offered the 
services of a Committee of 20 members to deliver parcels at 
the various camps, distribute tracts and reading matter, and 
hold meetings where practicable. This offer was accepted 
by the Military authorities, and the Camps at St. Johns, St. 
Armand, Huntingdon and Durham were visited regularly, 
with most beneficial results, as acknowledged by the officers 
in charge. 

The Outdoor Relief Work for the city was constituted in 
connection with the work of the Association’s city missionary. 
This was carried on for two years, and then assumed by the 
“ Out-door Relief Committee ” and held since then in connec- 
tion with the Protestant House of Industry. 

The news of the assassination of Abraham Lincoln, Presi- 
dent of the United States, led to a special meeting being 
called, and the appointment of a committee to draft a letter to 
the Associations of the United States, extending to them 
sympathy and condolence on account of their nation’s sorrow. 
This letter was received with great appreciation by the 
Associations of the United States. 


Twelfth International Convention. 


The year 1867 showed a marked development. 249 new 
members were added, making a total of 649. The rooms 
were removed to the Bible House, corner of Craig and 
Alexander Streets, where the second floor-was leased for a 
term of years. This year was especially important on account 
of the meeting of the Twelfth International Convention in 
Montreal on June roth. This was the second time the Inter- 
national Convention met in Montreal. Great changes had 
occurred since the first meeting in 1856. Then 35 Associa- 
tions were represented by 98 delegates; at this time there were 


12 
597 delegates representing 106 Associations with 75 corres- 
ponding members. The great Civil War had just closed. 
Thousands of the flower of the young men of the United 
States had perished on the field of battle, and the nation had 
been purged from the fearful curse of slavery. The British 
Provinces had been united in Confederation under the title of 
the Dominion of Canada, and this country had just taken her 
place among the nations of the earth. The Convention was 
a most important one, It lasted five days. | Major-General 
Russell, commander of the British forces, presided over the 
welcome meeting, and Sir Henry Havelock was on the list of 
speakers. Messrs. T. J. Claxton, D. Bentley, and J. R. 
Dougall, formed the Committee of Arrangements; and the 
Reception Committee :—Major-General Russell, Hon. James 
Ferrier, Principal Dawson, Messrs. E. K. Greene, James 
Court, Henry Lyman and Charles Alexander. 

This Convention was remarkable for its International charac- 
ter. Delegates from Northern and Southern States were sitting 
side by side, just at the close of their prolonged and fearful 
struggle, and uniting together as Christian workers. The 
spiritual power and influence of these meetings was most 
remarkable, and attracted attention throughout the land. 

It will be remembered that the Montreal Association had 
been foremost in protesting against the exclusion of colored. 
men from the membership of the Association, and had with- 
drawn from the Confederation on that account. It was her 
pleasing duty to welcome at this Convention a delegation of 
colored men who were for the first time received as accredited 
delegates. This delegation came from New York City, and 
was the first Association organized for colored men. Their 
President, Mr. E. V. Eato, in presenting his report, was 
called to the platform, and was received with the greatest 
enthusiasm. He said : 

“Mr. President and Christian Brethren—I rejoice that as 
a representative of the first Colored Association, I stand under 
the glorious flag of Her Most Gracious Majesty, and upon the 
soil of Canada, where so many of my brethren, once enslaved, 
now forever free, have found an asylum. Our Association is 


Thos. Leeming, President, 1862. John R. Dougall, President, 1864. 


Rev. Samuel Massey, Alfred Sandham, First General Secretary, 
Appointed City Missionary, 1853. Appointed 1864 and continued until 1874. 


13 


but three months old. We have now 52 members. We feel 
that the practical work of reconstruction for our young men 
of the South must be done through this kind of labor, and by 
Christian young men. Politics may do much to reconstruct 
society, but we need the refining process of Christianity to 
make them good, true, noble citizens and worshippers of God.” 

Brigadier-General Charles H. Howard, of Washington, 
presented the following resolution:—Resolved : “That the 
Committee on Associations be instructed to adopt such 
measures as in their judgment will best promote the formation 
of Young Men’s Christian Associations among the colored 
men throughout the United States and British Provinces.” 

This year, 1867, saw the formation of the first Branch of 
the Montreai Association, in Point St. Charles, with Mr. 
Lemuel Cushing, jr., as President, and Mr. J. R. Dougall as 
Secretary. It continued for two years and then disbanded. 

Through deputations from Montreal, Associations were 
organized in Kingston and Brockville, and a visitation of all 
the Associations in the Eastern Section of Canada was carried 
out, which was the earliest form of our present provincial 
work. 

The years 1868-70 do not present any special features. The 
general work was continued and increased. Every year the 
report refers to the need of a Building for the use of the 
Association, and Major-General Russell acted as chairman of 
a meeting, held at the residence of Joseph Mackay, Esq., for 
the purpose of initiating this project. 

During the visit of His Royal Highness Prince Arthur, in 
April, 1870, a reception was tendered to him at the rooms on 
Alexander Street. He expressed his pleasure at being present 
and his deep interest in the work for young men. Sir Henry 
Havelock and Major Malan delivered addresses. 


The Victoria Square Building Project. 


This year saw the successful inauguration of the Building 
project which for several years had been on the minds and 
hearts of the members. A Bible House was proposed in 
which the Association would have suitable rooms, but this 


14 


plan was frustrated. On Sept. 22, 1870, a series of meetings 
was held under the auspices of the Association, called a 
‘“ Laymen’s Institute,” conducted by Mr. K. A. Burnell, of 
Illinois. Some of the topics discussed were ‘ Personal 


Religion,” ‘‘ Christians should study to be personally more 
attractive,” “* Religion in the Family,” “ Obligations of Chris- 


tian business men to their employees.” While these meetings 
were not largely attended, they aroused a deeper interest in 
the Association, and on Friday evening, Sept. 30th, a public 
meeting was held in the Mechanics’ Hall to consider the 
Building project. Mr. Burnell and Mr. Claxton had called 
upon a number of business men and the project was favorably 
received. Mr. Claxton headed the list with $2,500, and his 
example was liberally followed by a large number of the 
business men of the city. 

A most encouraging feature was the self-denying subscrip- 
tions made by the young men. ‘The total amount aimed at 
was $25,000, and the subscription list represented $17,040, 
which had been secured in one week. This success gave a 
great impetus to the general work. A site was secured on 
the corner of Craig and St. Radegonde Streets at a cost of 
$14,000, a Building Committee named, plans secured, and on 
Sept. 7, 1872, in the presence of a large assembly of the most 
representative citizens, the corner stone of the new building 
was laid by Mr. T. James Claxton, President of the Associa- 
tion. Rev. Geo. C. Wells, Dr. Potts, Dr. Burns, Dr. Wilkes 
and Mr. Burnell, of Illinois, were the speakers. | When 
completed the Building was to cost $50,090, and one-half of 
that amount had been secured. The project had been 
conceived in prayer, it was prosecuted in prayer, the corner- 
stone was laid in prayer, and they looked forward to the 
completion of the work in the same hopeful spirit. 

During these twenty-two years the Association had occu- 
pied rented rooms as follows : 


Ist. —1852-55, Oddfellows’ Hall, St. James Street. 
2nd.— 1855-56, One room at 205 Notre Dame Street. 
3rd. —1857-58, St. James Street, near the Ottawa Hotel. 


Wy 


GHAGUEL) 


. oy 


David Bentley, President, 1865-1866. 
Lemuel Cushing, President, 1867-1868. George Hague, President, 1880-1881. 


1d 


4th. —1858-62, At 90 McGill Street. 

5th. —1862-63, On St. James Street, over Bank of Upper 
Canada. 

6th. —1863-66, On St. James Street, near the Post-Office. 

7th. —1866-73, Bible House, cor. Craig and Alexander 
Streets. 


During the same period three city missionaries were 
employed :—Rev. Samuel Massey, Rev. C. P. Watson and 
Mr. John Milne. Mr, Alfred Sandham was the first General 
Secretary appointed in 1863, and occupied the position for ten 
years, until the opening of the Victoria Square Building. The 
following gentlemen occupied the position of President during 
this period :— 


1851 -—J. H. Winn. 1860-61—F, E. Grafton. 
1852 -—Edward Taylor. 1862 -—Thomas Leeming. 
1853-54—George Childs. 1863 -—T. James Claxton. 
1855 -—James Baylis. 1864 -—J. R. Dougall. 


1856 -—T. James Claxton. 1865-66—David Bentley 
1857-58—George S. Brush. 1867-68—Lemuel Cushing. 
1859 -—Alex. Milloy. 1869-73—T. James Claxton. 


In reviewing the early history of the Association, there is 
one name which must be mentioned, as it was largely through 
his untiring effort that the Association was kept alive and 
true to its original purpose. 


Mr. T. JAMEs CLAXTON, 


not only gave time and money to this work, but he also kept 
the Montreal Movement prominently before the Association 
leaders on the Contigent. Together with such men as the 
Hon. Cephas Brainard, and Robert R. McBurney, of New 
York, Jno. S. McLean, of Halifax, and other early Fathers, 
he had an important part in helping to shape the policy of the 
general work during the first twenty-five years of its history. 
It was almost entirely through his efforts that the Victoria 
Square Building was secured. 


16 


The period from 1873 to 189!—in the Victoria Square Building. 


The Building was opened and dedicated on Oct. 23, 1873, 
when a week’s services were held. At these services Mr. H. 
Thane Miller, of Cincinnati, Ohio; Mr. K. A. Burnell, of 
Chicago, and T. Jas. Wilkie, Secretary at Toronto, were 
present. These meetings were full of interest, and command- 
ed the attention of the citizens. The Building contained only 
Reading Room, Library, Offices and Hall, but it was an 
immense step in advance. 

In February, 1874, Mr. Alfred Sandham resigned the 
Secretaryship, and on March toth, 1874, Mr. D. A. Budge, who 
was a worker on the Committee force of the Association, was 
secured as Secretary, and has continued in the same position 
until the present time. 


Work for Boys begun. 


During this year 569 new members were added to the list, 
making a total of 1,360. Work for boys was organized into 
a separate Committee, and a weekly meeting conducted with 
an average attendance of 25. This Association was one of the 
first on the Continent in organizing this important Branch of 
the work. 

Evening classes in Commercial and Mechanical branches 
were also proposed, and comment was made upon the fact 
that no suitable accommodation was provided. In fact, the 

suilding was considered too small before the end of the 
second year of its occupation. Two classes, one in French 
and one in phonography, were started. 

A daily noon meeting was started and continued until 1889 
with most helpful results. ; 

The annual expenditure had increased to $5,664, which was 
secured by the Finance Committee with great difficulty. This 
was caused by the pressure on account of the heavy debt on 
the Building. » 

In June of this year, a monthly publication called “The 


RHROLAND | 


ge a a 


J. M. Smith, President, 1882-1883. 
Dr. F. W. Kelly, President, 1884-1885. R. H. Holland, President, 1886-87. 


LF 


Christian Worker” was issued, giving facts and announce- 
ments concerning the work. 

The year 1875 shows great activity in the religious meetings; 
special services were held under the direction of Mr. W. P. 
Crombie, Rev. A. N. Somerville, of Glasgow; Mr. Geo. C. 
Needham, and Mr. Harry Moorehouse. These services held 
at different times greatly quickened the religious life of the 
members, and many conversions were reported. 

During this year Mr. John Currie came to the Association 
Building. His life had been blasted through intemperance. 
His coming to the meetings resulted in his conversion to God. 
He at once became an active worker and soon entered evan- 
gelistic work in which he has continued with much acceptance 
ever since. He has labored in all sections of this continent, 
and is now in charge of the Inspector Street Mission in this 
City. 

During this year work among the city firemen was organ- 
ized, and every Sunday morning a committee led by Mr. W. J. 
Orr, visited all the fire stations, leaving papers and books, and 
conversing with the men as they had opportunity. This 
work was carried on for a number of years with excellent 
results. 

An Employment Bureau was started, and certain hours of 
each day devoted to this branch. 

To meet and provide for the crowd of men out of work who 
made the rooms a loafing place in winter, a separate room was 
secured on Craig Street, and a man was placed in charge. 
Daily meetings were held from three to four o’clock. This 
relieved the Reading Room, and made the Building a more 
attractive resort for the members. 


The Building Debt subscribed. 


The special feature of these years, 1877-78, was the removal 
of the debt of $20,000 from the Building. So pressing had 
this burden become that the regular work was being hindered, 
and the offer of the Treasurer to secure $10,090 from the 
merchants of the city, provided the young men would 
secure an additional $10,000, was accepted, and the amount 


18 


was subscribed within the year. The Young Men’s amount 
was secured by one hundred young men subscribing $100 
each, payable in three years. Mr. Stapleton Caldecott’s name 
should be associated with the Treasurer in this effort, as he 
was one of the most enthusiastic and practical workers. 

In 1879 the Association suffered great loss through the 
resignation of their President, Mr. T. James Claxton, who, 
for 28 years, had been so actively identified with the work. 
In fact it was largely through his efforts that the building on 
Victoria Square had been secured. He had also been most 
helpful in the development of the general work on the 
continent. A general depression in business throughout the 
country caused the failure of many firms and a consequent 
reduction of the staff, so that both the membership and the 
subscriptions suffered, and the difficulties greatly increased. 
The distinctive religious work of the Association was always 
kept in the first place, and most encouraging results were 
secured, Special meetings were held, conducted by Mr. W. P. 
Crombie, Rev. Dr. Parsons, of Buffalo, and Mr. George 
Muller, of Bristol, England. This year closed with a debt on 
current expenses of $1,950. 

In the same year the Association began meetings for Grand 
Trunk Railway men at Point St. Charles. Through the 
courtesy of the Grand Trunk these were held in the “ mess 
room,” and were largely attended. 

A Sunday afternoon meeting was also organized on behalf 
of Commercial Travellers. This work was finally abandoned 
through lack of support. A Sabbath afternoon Temperance 
Meeting was organized in 1881, and sustained with good 
interest for three years. Mr. Henry Morton was the chair- 
man of the Committee and the principal worker in this 
meeting, 

In 1879 work was undertaken in the Volunteer Militia 
Camp at St. Johns, Que. A tent was secured and fitted up as 
a Reading and Game room, and arranged for evening evangel- 
istic meetings. It became very popular and the officers in 
charge acknowledged the service which was rendered to the 


Victoria Square Building, occupied from 1873 to 1891. 


Dominion Square Building, entered December, 1891. 


19 


men in Camp. Excellent results were obtained. This was 
made an annual feature of the work of the Association, and 
followed the Military Camp at Farnham, Granby, Richmond, 
Compton, St. Johns, Laprairie, or wherever held. This has 
continued up to the present time. 

In 1881 the question of enlarging the educational work in the 
line of evening classes and lectures for young men was carefully 
considered by a special committee. The result was that short 
courses of lectures were planned on Physiology and Hygiene, 
Chemistry, Canadian History, First Principles of Machinery, 
and classes were formed in Arithmetic and Bookkeeping in 
addition to those in French and Shorthand. Many difficulties 
were experienced from the fact that the rooms were not suit- 
able for this work, but it was now so successful, especially in 
the evening classes, that these were continued each year and 
increased up to the limit of the accommodation. 


Work for Railroad Men begun. 


In 1882 the work of the Railroad men of the Grand Trunk 
Railway was enlarged by securing Mr. Frank Lonsdale, 
formerly Secretary at York, England, to take charge of this 
branch. His work consisted of visitation of the men at their 
homes, tract distribution, holding a Sunday evening meeting, 
Bible Classes and the Gospel meetings on Sunday afternoon 
in the Mess Room, the use of which was kindly granted by 
the Company. 

The work of hospital visitation of young men was system- 
atically undertaken by Mr. John Louson, and carried on 
effectively for many years with excellent results. 

In 1882 the formation and development of Workers’ Train- 
ing Classes became a marked feature. This led to an 
increased attention being given to Bible study and personal 
work, 

The year 1883 reports the following members of this 
Association who had been called to fill the position of General 
Secretary :— 


20 


James E, Gould... ., .... ... Bangor, Maine, 
Win, J, tr 98! dared 4s 3? BE Gilomas, Ont, 
Prank Toonsdale. bok 2-2 ok - Hamilton, Ont. 
(ceo, EP Walliams) wf ca, bh <x Peterboro, Ont. 

G. A. Kuhring .. .. .. .. .. ., Ottawa, Ont. 

eG Brewer trie ais oc rot eke or LOWER Sound, Ont. 
yr ee ea re Springfield, Mass. 
Chas:, 0. Walliams 6. ... i. <. «Sait Antonio, Texas. 


At this time a greater concentration of the work on behalf 
of young men was considered, with the following results : 

First—Giving more attention to the membership, consider- 
ing men individually, and personal visitation. 

- 2nd.—The development of active members on Committee 
work. 

3rd.—The work among strangers and the unemployed. 

This plan centred the work more than ever around the 
Building and revealed the fact that nothing was being done 
on the Physical, and but little on the Social side, as there was 
no accommodation in the building for these branches. To 
meet the social need the permanent seats were removed from 
the hall and it was converted into a parlor. To meet the need 
of Physical work an affiliation was made with Mr. Barnjum 
whereby the members could enter classes in his gymnasium 
for physical culture. A Lacrosse and Football Club was 
also organized, 

It was in 1885 that the mixed meeting held on Sunday 
evenings at eight o’clock was changed to a meeting for men 
only, thus making the work one entirely for young men and 
boys. 


Work for Young Men in Foreign Lands begun. 


During 1888, through a visit from Rey. J. Hudson Taylor, 
of the China Inland Mission, special interest was aroused in 
work for young men in foreign lands, and a committee named 
to present papers and addresses on this subject, and secure 
subscriptions to a mission fund. The first year resulted in 
raising $196.00. The following year the International Com- 


VROSS 1 


; LHPACKARD 


D. W. Ross, President, 1888-1889. 
L. H. Packard, President, 1892-1893. Abner Kingman, President, 1890-1891, 


21 


mittee appointed Mr. J. T. Swift, of New York, to proceed to 
Japan, and shortly afterwards Mr. David McConaughy was 
sent to Madras, India. The Montreal Committee resolved to 
accept India as their field, and appropriated their gifts to this 
special work. In the past thirteen years the interest in this 
work for young men in foreign lands has steadily increased. 


The Dominion Square Building Movement. 


The pressure in all departments in the Building, notwith- 
standing the recent enlargement, made it absolutely necessary 
that a new Building should be secured. In 1887, a special 
Committee was named to consider the whole matter, and after 
a great deal of investigation it was decided to launch the new 
Building movement. The securing of a suitable lot was a 
great problem. Many locations were considered, having in 
view the future growth of the city, and finally at the close of 
a series of evangelistic meetings under Mr. D. L. Moody, 
which had been held in the Crystal Rink, Dominion Square, 
he was asked to counsel with the Committee on this important 
matter. ‘* Why not select this site where the meetings are 
now being held ?”” His counsel prevailed, and on May 4, 1888, 
the deed was signed, which transferred to the Association the 
present site on Dominion Square. The Building Committee 
was enlarged and resolved to meet each Thursday morning 
for prayer and conference having these three points in view : 

1. That their decisions might be unanimous. 

2. That the labor of canvassing for funds and the gifts 
donated might be a spiritual blessing to all concerned. 

3. That the building might be erected to the glory of God 
and for the young men of the city free of debt. 

Thus the Dominion Square Building was initiated, and the 
great work of securing funds for its erection begun. Mr. 
Warden King was chairman, and those associated with him 
continued their work in this spirit until its completion. Their 
prayers were abundantly answered. Messrs. Fuller & 
Wheeler, of Albany, N.Y., were chosen as architects, on 
account of their previous experience in erecting similar 
Buildings,, and five months were occupied in the carefui 


22 


preparation and consideration of plans. Work was com- 
menced August 17, 1889, when the foundations were put in, 
and on April 13, 1890, the work proceeded until its completion 
in December, 1891. 

During the occupancy of the Victoria Square Building the 
following gentlemen filled the office of President : 


1873-79.—T. James Claxton 1886-87.—R. Henry Holland. 
1880-81.—George Hague. 1888-89.—D. W. Ross. 
1882-83.—J. Murray Smith. 18 g0-91.—Abner Kingman, 
1884-85.—Dr. F. W. Kelly. 


The name of Mr. Warden King must ever be prominently 
mentioned in connection with the carrying through of this 
Building enterprize. The time, thought and patient service 
which he rendered was invaluable, and the young men of the 
city owe him a debt which should not be forgotten. 

The Victoria Square Building was finally sold. 


The period from 1891 to 190!—ten years in the Dominion Square 
Building. 


The entrance upon the Dominion Square Building, in the 
fall of 1891, was marked by an immediate increase in the 
membership, which has continued steadily until the present, 
growing from 1,070 in 1891, to 2,070 in 1901. The work of the 
Association has tended to concentrate in the Building where 
the Educational, Physical and Junior Departments were care- 
fully organized and enlarged with increased supervision. 

The Extension Fund which began in the Victoria Square 
Building was continued in the Dominion Square Building 
with good results in every way. 

In September, 1896, an important step in advance was 
taken when the Association decided to become responsible for 
the support of Mr. David McConaughy, Secretary of the 
International Committee, in Madras, India. The givings of 
the members were increased to $1,200 a year to this object 
for a term of five years. In addition individual members of 
the Association became responsible for the entire support of 


W.TEES. 


Warden King, Chairman Finance Committee, 1883-1888 ; Treasurer, 1892-c6. 
Wm. Tees, President, 1894-1895. H. B. Ames, President, 1896-97. 


23 


five of the Secretaries of the International Committee in India 
and Japan. 

In January, 1893, the Provincial Convention of Ontario 
and Quebec met in our Association. Over one hundred 
delegates were present, representing the Associations of the 
two Provinces. 

When the Dominion Square lot was secured the Committec 
sought to purchase the rear half of the adjoining lot on 
Dorchester Street, for an annex where the gymnasium and 
other buildings might be placed, but this was impossible. Mr. 
Warden King, however, kept the matter in mind, and in 1894 
purchased the whole lot, making a deed of the rear half, 
64 x 69, costing $10,000, to the Association. This lot is still 
waiting the erection of an annex to the present building. In 
1895 the death of Mr. Warden King occurred, and the Asso- 
ciaticn lost one of its most interested and helpful friends. 


Rooms for Members. 


In July and August, 1896, the Secretary was asked by the 
International Committee to assist in making a study of the 
Grand Trunk Railway System as to the possibilities of organ- 
izing Association work for the men at divisional points. <A 
report was made, and through Mr. Chas. M. Hays, General 
Manager, presented to the Board of Directors in London, 
England, who agreed to the introduction of the work as 
conducted for railroad men at nine points on their line. They 
also made an annual appropriation towards the current work 
at these points. As a result four buildings have been erected, 
and at five other points rooms secured. Nine men are now 
employed as Secretaries, in these Railway Associations. 
Since early in 1899, a Secretary has been in charge of the 
Railway Branch at Point St. Charles, and a new Building is 
under consideration. 

The heavy mortgage debt of $51,000 on the new Building 
was felt to be a great hindrance to the development of the 
work. After frequent reference to the matter in succeeding 
Annual Reports a Committee of young men with Mr. Alec. 
Arthur as chairman, proposed to raise a fund of $10,000 from 


24 


among the young men. The report of their action to the 
Board of Directors in November, 1897, led to a unanimous 
decision to make a great effort to clear off the whole debt. 
A special Committee was appointed which met with other 
members of the Board each week for prayer and conference, 
and after a persistent and faithful canvass, subscriptions cover- 
ing the whole amount were secured in the spring of 1899. 

In 1897 the loss of the largest tenant led to the change of 
the third and fourth floors of the Building into bed rooms for 
young men. These changes together with the furnishings 
required cost $8,500. 

The additional amount of $8,509 for changes made in the 
Third and Fourth Floors, was included in the Building Fund, 
and subscriptions secured to cover it. 

In 1898 a Ladies’ Committee was added to the Committee 
organization. Although for years the ladies of the various 
churches had freely assisted the Association, no organized 
work had been done. They agreed to assist in the Social 
Department, and also to help in advising concerning the 
appointments of the Building. 

On March roth, 1899, Mr. D. A. Budge, Secretary of the 
Association completed twenty-five years service. The occa- 
sion was marked by a meeting of members and friends at eight 
o'clock that morning in the Lecture Hall for prayer, praise 
and thanksgiving. At the Annual Business Meeting of the 
Association on May 16th following, the members presented 
him with a silver tea service in honor of the event, and on 
Thursday evening, May 18th, a Banquet was tendered him by 
the Board of Directors, members and business men of the city. 
At this meeting Rev. Theodore Cuyler, D.D., and Messrs. 
R. C. Morse and John R. Mott, of New York City, were 
present and delivered addresses. Mr. Budge was granted 
four months’ leave of absence, and, accompanied by Mrs. 
Budge, took an extended trip to Europe. 


With the Canadian Contingents in South Africa. 


9, . . 
In October, 1899, when the war broke out in South Africa, 
and two Canadian Contingents volunteered their services, this 


Chas. T. Williams, President, 1898 to 1got. 


25 


Association took initial steps in arranging that Association 
Secretaries accompany the regiments. This was done under 
the direction of the Provincial Committee and Dr. H. G. 
Barrie, and Mr. Thos. F. Best, Secretary at Brantford, went 
out with the troops and continued with them until their return. 
The Association also secured through Miss Gould of this city 
the sum of $3,090 to be used by our representatives for the 
immediate necessities of the mén. The efforts of our Secre- 
taries were deeply appreciated by both officers and men, and 
the good effect of this work upon all our Canadian Associa- 
tions cannot be over estimated. 

Since entering the Dominion Square Building, the following 
Bequests were received ; 


Estate Robert Anderson .. .. .. .. ..$1,800 
Painter iy PU hd Siw otis tie ond eo ORS 
tity Wieden King i. obrn iG. an «dies ag00 
PD ee de RR as Mor chem «sce Shy aie 
hf Pe Be ARCANE Sauna eee A Skee OS 
Tif We ken WURDE ohn. by.cvete hoe OOS 
ve GgObmpArehibald 64 saline 3. F978 

Mins LOagd ers. Arar) Wieinkcclih set? 450 


This would indicate that during the last ten years the atten- 
tion of the citizens has been drawn to the future needs and 
development of the work in the city as never before. 

During this decade the following Directors have filled the 
President’s chair : 


1890-92.—Abner Kingman. 1894-96.—William Tees. 
1892-94.—L. H. Packard. 1896-98.—Herbert B. Ames. 
1898-1901.—Chas. T. Williams. 


After ten years in the Dominion Square Building, the 
pressure for expansion in all the departments and the estab- 
lishmaent of branches in other sections of the city is very great. 

For all that has been accomplished we would render humble 
and devout thanksgiving to God. We confidently commit 
the future of the work to His care and guidance, as the sole 


26 


aim of the Association is the extension of His Kingdom 
among the young men of our city and land. 

No sketch of the history of the Association would be 
complete without reference to the noble part taken by the one 
who under the good guidance of God has now for over 27 
years largely moulded its policy and directed its life, the 
beloved General Secretary, Mr. D. A. Budge. He has 
brought to his life work not only a consecrated religious 
devotion and an extraordinary sympathy for young men, but 
also a business capacity and sound judgment, which to a large 
degree has been the means of keeping the Association true to 
the lines of its direct work instead of wasting its power on 
side issues, which so often beset such work. He has secured 
the esteem and active support of the business men of Montreal 
and been able to surround himself with and retain sympa- 
thetic workers for the prosecution of the objects of the 
Association. He has largely by his efforts, through the 
esteem in which he is held in the community, been enabled to 
raise the funds which now places, free of debt, in the posses- 
sion of the young men of Montreal, a property worth over 
$175,000, ° His influence has guided the lives of many men 
for their eternal blessing and good, and. truly, as of Sir 
Christopher Wren, it will be said of him, when the time comes 
for him to render up his account, “If you wish to see his 
monument look around” in the hearts and lives of the young 
men he has touched during all these years. 


D. A. Budge, General Secretary, appointed 1874, 
having been in active service for 27 years, and still directs the 
work of the Montreal Association. 


fir. eae 


Ye, 


iS 
y 
2 
iZ 


io 


NY. 


NS 


mM 


Placed on the Warehouse of Gault Brothers Co., Limited, 
St. Helen Street, Montreal. 


OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS, 1900-1905. 


D. W. Ross. 


PRESIDENT. 


CHARLES T. WILLIAMS. 


VICE-PRESIDENT. 


H. J. MUDGE. 


TREASURER. 
L. H. PACKARD. 


RECORDING SECRETARY. 


GEO. LAMB. 


BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 


Term expires May rst, rgot. 


D. BENTLEY. 


CHARLES T. WILLIAMS. Hi. B. AMEs. 


James W. Knox. 


ABNER KINGMAN. 


Joun KENNEDY. 


R. H. BucHanan. 


H. J. Munce. 
L. H. Packarp. 
C. W. Brown. 


Joun Murpuy. 
WALTER PAUL. 


G. H. HARROWER. 
¢. B. GAowt. 


Term expires May rst, 1902. 
Rosert HENDERSON. 
CHARLES CUSHING. 
RosBert Munro. 

C. C. HoLianp. 

Term expires May Ist, 1903. 
Dr. W. F. Hamitton. 
Setu P. Leer. 
Joun W. Ross. 


ADVISORY DIRECTORS. 
GrEoRGE LAmp. 


GEORGE HAGUE. 
Davip YUILE. 


