KA=NEWS '79 


In less than a month pre-kamp, consequently things have been buzzing in the 
Kamp Office. 


Kevin has met with some returning staff to discuss pre-kamp and draw up 

some goals and objectives for that session. Julien Is very busy getting the 
Kamp ready for our arrival. Now that the majority of the staff Is hired 

we will be starting our section meetings and also get together as an entire 
group. 


STAFF MEETING: 


WEDNESDAY, MAY 30, 1979 
7:30 PM 
BOARD ROOM (SECOND FLOOR ROOM 251) 
DOWNTOWN YMCA 
1441 DRUMMOND STREET 
MONTREAL, P.Q. 


The meeting Is to provide Kevin and | am opportunity to fill you fn on 
further developments regarding pre-kamp and kamp. Please make every effort 
to attend. 


FIRST-AID: 


There will be a First-Aid course given by the St. John's Ambulance on 

JUNE 2ND AND 3RD FROM 9:00 AM TO 5:00 PM both days at a cost of $5.00 

(to cover materials and certification). This its a compulsory course for all 
staff who presently do not have a valid First-Aid Certificate. If you do 
not have your First-Aid up-to-date contact Olga to tell her you'll be here. 
The meeting room will be the same as rhe staff meeting. 


SOMETHING TO JOG YOUR MEMORY: 


Some members of our staff have still not returned their staff agreements. 
We'd I!ke to finalize the agreements so please get them tn. 


Tax Forms 


Enclosed are the federal and provinctal tax forms that all employees are 
required to submit. The annual income of most K.K. staff fis such that 
they are exempt from having income taxes deducted from their wages. In 
order to obtain this exemption the federal and provincial tax forms must 
be submitted to the respective governments. 


lf you are uncertain as to how to fill out the forms bring them to the 
staff meeting and we'll! conduct a mini course in income tax completion. 


Also Enclosed: 


Kampers info booklet In which you will find a medical certificate which 
must be filled out by your physician before you come up to Kamp. 


Ka-News '79 Page 2 
PRE-KAMP ; 


Pre-kamp training begins on SATURDAY, JUNE 16, 1979 at 9:00 AM. On that day 
there will be a bus in front of the Downtown Y to transport people to K.K. 
We are assuming that most staff will be on this bus. If for some reason you 
cannot be on it then please contact Mrs. Hall at the Camp Office. This will 
be the only transportation provided by the Kamp. Those who can't take this 
bus will have to get up to K.K. on their own steam. Luggage will be loaded 
on the bus at 9:00. If it Is inconventent for you to bring your gear down 
on Saturday morning you can bring tt to the Camp Office the day before and 
leave ft overnight. 


Pre-kamp training is essential if we are to perform well in our jobs this 
summer so everybody should attend. If because of exams, etc. you can't 
attend all of pre-kamp inform your section director or program department 
head at the meeting on the 30th. 


CAMP COUNSELLOR'S HANDBOOK: 


We understand that people are having difficulty locating Blackstock's and 
Latimer's 'Camp Counsellor's Handbook'. A telephone survey of most of the 
W. H. Smith, Classics and Cole's bookstores tn Montreal Indicated that 
none have it In stock. Consequently, we've ordered 18 coples directly 
from the publisher. These will, hopefully, be available at the staff 
meeting on the 30th. We'll sell them at the publisher's price (less than 
bookstore prices). If you're not Interested In buying the book It Is 
probably available in limited quantity (one or two coples) at public 
libraries. Mind you, If you're not already a member tn a IIbrary it 
would probably be Just as cheap to buy the book. In any event, we still 
expect all staff to have read this by pre-kamp. 


KEVIN'S J.G. 


Dave O'Donnel! and Luc Tremblay our new C.1.T. Director are presently 
breaking their backs working for Julien's maintenance crew. Kevin McGrath 
is training to enter In the Montreal Marathon in late August, unfortunately, 
knee problems have hampered the young athlete. Dave Paltiel left for 
Victorfa, B.C. to work for Derek at Camp Thunderbird as Waterfront Director. 
David's younger sister, Loule feels comfortable In making up for David's 
mistakes. Sue Armstrong was seen at the Kanawana Reunton hobbl ing on one 
leg. Bob Woodhouse our Voyageur Director, recently set off to do some 
weekend camping with Marie Therien at K.K. A slight drizzle sent the two 
hardy outdoor leaders back to the caboose the first night. 


Ka-News '79 Page 4 


Michel "Irish" Lane was disappointed when he heard the new van wasn't an 
‘automaton'. Well maybe next year Mike. Gord Logan buzzed into our office 
last month to reminisce about his experiences leading a senior girls trip. 
Gord will offer his talents at Kamp this summer, hopefully, In a less 
challenging area than with senior girls. Lynne Chantler struggled out of 
the backwoods of Temiscaming, Quebec where her cottage is only accessible 
by boat to land a job at K.K. Luckily Lynne didn't have to come In for a 
second interview. If you see a mini Honda bombing around Montreal with 
Alberta plates, it has to be a 4'II" person by the name of Jeannette 
Penwarn. Jeannette will be the Senior Girls Section Director. Doug "The 
Kampcraft" Peets and Marie Therien will hopefully be going to school for 
seven days this summer. They will be bringing back their ideas from the 
Ontario Woodsmanship School. That's all for now folks. 


Kevin Forster 
Assistant Kamp Director 


KAMP_KANAWANA & LES VOYAGEURS REGISTRATIONS: 


As you all know, kamper registrations help make a successful summer, If you 
have any suggestions or ideas re promotion bring them along to the meeting 
on the 30Th. 


Dave Twynam, 
Director. 


