KA-HEWS 
December 1978 


Bonjour = Chimo - Greetings- Shalom - 


Yes - the staff Xmas party is coming - and this letter Is your Invitation. 
Details are: 


DATE: FRIDAY, DECEMBER [5TH 
TIME: 8:00 PM 
PLACE: DEREK'S 
Apt. 4 
4160 Dorchester, West 
(near Greene Avenue) 


N.B. Entrance at the side of #4 
the building. 


| look forward to seeing you then, 


A number of staff have enquired about K.K. '79, Already, I've met with 
@ number of people. lf you think that you might like to Join the staff 
for another Kanawana summer, just give Olga or | a call at the office. 
We will begin sending applications out on the 3rd of January. 


A couple of changes for next summer should be mentioned: 


1. Counsellor Salary range has been incresed by 25% - 
other salaries are essentially the same. 


2. Those wishing to work as a tripper or tripper- 
counsellor must have their St. John's Ambulance 
First Ald Certificate and a minimum of a Bronze 
Medallion Life Saving Award, 


3. The positions of Arts & Crafts assistant and 
waterfront auxiliary no longer extst. 


4. Kamp will be operated a little differently 
next year. A number of things that were 
tolerated in the past will not be tn '79, 
Details will be discussed when you have your 
interview. Sentor positions will tn most cases 
require two or more interviews. 


Change of address: Dr. Sharon Levine 
#1202 
700 De Gaspe 
Nun's Island H3E |H2 
Telephone 761-3129 


Ka-News 2 


MORE _KA-NEWS 


Sue Dean is busy learning how to drive - maybe she'|l! bump into Lynn... 
Janne did not go out west and has returned to Denmark...Wendy just went 
out recently and has informed me that she has been accepted by CUSO to 
work In Nigerla for the next 2 years. She leaves Canada shortly after 
Christmas - congratulations Wendy - we'll miss you...Derrick Neilson is 
presently working In the Men's Wear Department at Ogilvy's...subsequent 
to our earlier report regarding Don Southern - he is now the Recreation 
Supervisor for the Town of Saint John, N.B. (new Toyota as well) congrats 
Don...Yours truly Is golng on holidays after Christmas and will be back 
in the office on January 24th...Gord has left CFCF to take up writing 
fulltime - a story of his on Canoe Tripping with Girls' will be published 
next spring in 'Outdoors Canada! magazine - Best of Luck Gord...lan Davis 
was the winner at the most recent choir practice - guess who wasn't... 
the Kamp truck was sold while Michel is the part-time time keeper at the 
Verdun Arena...John Lawrence ts really enjoying Katimavik, he heads out 
west soon with his group...'The Panda Game’ party in Ottawa was a 
smashing success...Dave O'D Is busy studying at McMaster U. in Hamilton - 
also doing a paper on Kanawana...Jose Pieres Is now a head chef at a 
local high school...Steve Reizes and Marie Therien may have some of their 


photos printed with Gord's story...Bill Perras has left K.K. and will be 
working at a local ski hill this winter...one staff member has not yet 
handed In his report - | won't mention any names but | do hope that you 


can find the time Herwig...Murph visited Eric, Kev and Kerry recently - 
| understand that she tntroduced the boys to some of our local constab- 
ularles...The new septic system is half complete and will also provide 
a large new play field near the chief's cabin. 


Well, | think that is all the news that's fit to print. Do have an 
enjoyable holiday and best wishes for super 1979. 


See you next week. 


Takvowoushi, Salut, Adios, Best Wishes. 


no 


Derek V. Walsh, 
Director of Camping. 


