KA-NEWS 
October 1978 
Bonjour et Chimo! 


Here we are almost November. I+ has been busy here as Olga and | prepare 
for the winter sk! program - The Kanawana Outing Club. You'll receive a 
Brochure on this shortly. Meanwhile at Kamp, we are In the midst of 
installing a new septic system. It will be large enough to ‘accommodate’ 
all Kamp wastes. In addition, renovations are taking place In most of the 
staff quarters, dining hall, kitchen and Lodge. Some of this work has 
been long overdue and I'm sure you are pleased to hear about It. 


K.K. staff are as always on the move. Here are some temporary addresses 
to add to your directory. 


John Lawrence Terry Lamb 

c/o Katimavik c/o Peter Porteous 

Box 354 General Delivery 
Bridgetown, N.S. Banff, Alberta 

Burke Lawrence Kevin Forster 

Room 307 Boucher House #7 

Jean Royce Hall 217 Laurter Avenue, East 
Queen's University Ottawa, Ontario KIN 6PI 
Kingston, Ontario K7M 2B9 Phone #613-233-3642 
Kevin McGrath David O'Donnel I 

Kerry Finucan McMaster University 
Erle Sandmark Matthew Hall 

#1009 North House 

1950 Lincoln Avenue Room 34\| 

Montreal, P.Q. H3H 2N8 Hamilton, Ontario 


Phone #931-9567 
Kathleen Murphy 


Cathy Hay #1453 
McLeod House Bishop's University 
University of New Brunswick Lennoxville, P.Q. 


Fredericton, N.B. 
Stephen Relzes 
Lynn Whitehead #211 
885 Silver Birch Trail 4900 Cote St. Luc Road 
Mississauga, Ontario L5J 4C2 Montreal, P.Q. H3W 2H3 


SOME BITS OF NEWS 

Janna and Wendy K have headed out west - Alberta perhaps to join Terry L 
and Bo....Kerry ts working part-time as an orderly at the Queen Elizabeth 
Hospital....Kevin McGrath is working at the Dawson Boys & Girls Club as a 
project director - Congrats Kev....! get my flying license next week.... 
Cathy Hay Is studying recreation at UNB....Dave Paltiel was the big 

winner at a recent chotr practice....Jean-Claude Deglaire and Christine 
were married In October - Congratulations to them both....Dave Scammell ls 
is busy studying at LCC....Don Southern went to New Brunswick for a job 
interview 3 weeks ago - he's still there???....The Kamp truck is for sale 
....Four staff have not yet handed in thelr reports....To those who have - 
Merc! Blen. All staff and C.1!.T.s should have recelved a '78 directory 
and my report - if we missed you, just give me a call....Eric Sandmark Is 
working part-time at CFMB radio as an operator....Lynn Whitehead Is taking 
Driver's Ed tn Toronto. That's about It for now gang - If you have any~ 
thing to add to our next Ka-News, just let me know. Until then enjoy the 
fall and keep well. 


Derek 


