KAMP KANAWANA 
December |, 1977 


CA-NEWS 


Bonjour! 


Yes, there will be a staff XMAS party. As marked on the KK. calendar, 
the party will be held as follows: 


DATE: SATURDAY, DECEMBER 1I7, 1977 

TIME: 8:00 PMIsh 

PLACE: Derek's new place 
Apt. 4 
4160 Dorchester Blvd. West (enter by baek door) 
(between Atwater and Greene) 


Hopefully we'!! see you there, 


i've been busy here getting the Winter Outing Club going. At the same 
time, getting things ready for K.K. '78. The new brochure Is out but 
much the same as the last one. If you know of any prospective kampers, 
just let me know and I'11 shoot some brochures to you post-haste. 


Preliminary discusstons have begun In regards to senlor positions for 
next summer. One thing Is definite, we will have the same Director and 
Assistant Director. As time progresses, hopefully we'll have a chance 
to talk about K.K. ‘78. 


Speaking of next summer, | intend to get the Staff Committee going again. 
Last year, a group of a dozen or so Kanawanlans spent many hours In 
assisting with the planning of 1977. If you are Interested In this, 
Please call elther me or Olga. The first meeting will be In mid-December, 


Some Bits of News! 


Two of our '77 staff have now secured fulltime work. For both, | feel 
that thelr experlence this summer has been a good preparation. 


Miche! Lane is now a school bus driver tn LachIne. This should be good 
because of the 4 hour lunch perltods. I'm really happy for you Michel! 


Itche Kerr ts off to Woodstock. No, not the place In New York where the 
rock concert was but to the Woodstock YMCA tn Ontario. He will be 
joltning the staff as thelr Aquatics Director. Good work Itche! 


My congratulations to them both. 


Ca-News Page 2 


SInce the last Ca-News, Stuart McLean has moved back to Toronto. He wlll 
be researching and reporting for the CBC radio program called Sunday 
Morning. 


Some New Addresses 


In addition to my address changing, here Is a IIst of new (mostly school) 
addresses: 


Burke Lawrence 

Room 110 Lalrd House 
Queen's University 
Kingston, Ontario 
K7M 2B9 


Dave O'Donnel! | 
McMaster UniversIty 
Matthews Hall! 245 
Hamilton, Ontario 


Melanlte Moynan 
334 Violet Cres. 
Dorval, Quebec 
H9S 3N9 


lan Chester 

9 Baalbec Road 
Highbury 
London N,5 
England 


At this point, we have not started construction of the new site. So here 
we go agaln with another ‘last! summer. 


That's It for now gang. Hopefully I'Il see you during the holidays. 


Cheers! 


Derek Walsh 


