Apri! 28, 1978 


KA-NEWS ‘78 


| tru’? that everyone Is getting ready for the summer. As you can 
guess, It gets buster around here as we get closer to the summer, 
In order to help us to prepare for K.K,. '78, please note the 
follow!ng: 


-~ | have menttoned to many that the book ‘Camp Counsellor's 
Handbook! by John Latimer and Brian Blackstock should be 
read. Kerry and | are planning the pre-kamp training 
program with the assumption that all staff wlll have read 
It before June I!7th. Please do so at your earliest 
convenlence, 


- Camp Counsellors' Worksho 
The Quebec Camping Association Is sponsoring a one day 
workshop on SATURDAY, MAY I3TH, at McGII! (Str Arthur 
Currle Gym). Some of the sesstons tnclude: 


song leading, games, dramatics, attitudes for ralny 
days, aquatics, nature, folk dancing, campfires, etc. 


It should be a valuable program for any staff member, 
particularly new counsellors. Kamp Kanawana !s prepared 
to sponsor you, so please let me know Tf you are able to 
attend. 


N.B. In order for us to get the advance registration 
rate, please notify me or Mrs. Hall by May 4th. Hopefully 
we'|{| have a large group of Kanawanltans present. 


1\f you are In Toronto, the Ontarlo Camping Assoclation Is 
holding a similar program on May 6th. Call them at (416) 
486-8630 for details. 


~ Kamp Kanawana 
Enclosed 1s the Kanawana crest and Interpretation. 


~ Kamper Informatton Booklet | 
his booklet Is Intended for kampers, nevertheless, you 
should be fam! liar with Its contents. 


- Medical 
This form ts Instde the booklet. It Is necessary that all 
staff have medicals before kamp. Please arrange for this 
In the near future. 


KA-NEWS '78 


- Other Forms 
Some staff have not yet returned thelr staff agreements. 
Please do so Immediately so that we can bring our files 
up-to-date. 


- Positions Still Open 


Waterfront Director 

Salling Dlrector 

C.1.1. Director 

Junftor Girls Section Dlrector 


lf perchance you know of someone who may be Interested, 
Just have them give me a call. 


KELLY'S JG. 


Pat Evans Is working fulltime at the Queen EIfzabeth HospItal 
while Brian Is golng Into a Master's of Education program at 
Concordia... They send thelr regards and advise that thelr 
wedding willl be at 12:30 PM, August 19th at the Loyola Chapel... 
Dave Grimala Is working for "Centre d'Accuell Berthelet" - a 
centre for juvenile delinquents...Al Vaughan Is working at the 
Str Winston ChurchI 11 Pub on Crescent Street...Kerry Finucan Is 
In Nova Scotla now - will be beginning fulltime work at K.K. on 
May 4th...The Downtown Y had a flre recently, damage was malnly 
on the 2nd and 3rd floors - the Camp Office Is OK except for 
the smell...Don Southern fs In Ottawa finishing up his practical 
part to his degree. 


That's all for now gang - we'll be having a couple of meetings 
In May. I'll tet you know later. A Green Triangle wilt follow 
next week. 


Adios, 


Derek 


