KA-! EMS '79 


February 1979 


Greetings and Happy New Year to one and all! 


Well folks I'm back after visits to Western Canada, Tokyo, 

Hong Kong, Macau and China. It was a wonderful trip with many 
new and exciting experlences. The most memorable part of the 
trip was the four days In China. Anyway, I'm back at the ranch 
now aS you can see getting prepared for K.K. '79. Enclosed are 
a couple of our 1979 brochures. Your help In passing them along 
to Interested parents is, of course, appreciated. 


In the near future, you will receive two T-4 slips. You will 
need these when you complete the required Income tax forms. By 
the way, all staff of '78 should file Income tax forms. If you 
have any questions, just give me a call. 


Incidentally, while visiting a YMCA camp In Hong Kong, the 
possIibIitities of a staff exchange were discussed. If you are 
interested, let me know so that it can be pursued. 


In regards to Kanawana '79, we have already sent out over 100 
applications. Shortly, | will begin the Interviews for those 
who have applied. Again, If you are Interested In returning, 
give either Olga or | a call at the office (849-5331). 


SOME TID-BITS OF STAFF NEWS! 


1 saw James Orbinsk! and John Lawrence white visiting In the 

Banff area. Both are doing well. Actually there are a number 

of former staff there: Suzanne Dunn, BIII Underwood, Nancy Lester 
and Terry Lamb. The skiing looked good - | understand that Terry 
and James visited Sue Ambrose In Saskatoon - she's doling fine. 


Wendy Kelen has left for Nigeria. I'm sure that she'd appreciate 
a letter or two from Canada. Her address Is: 


| jabu Muslin 

P.M.E. 2030 College 
| jabu - Ode 

Ogun State 

Nigerla, West Africa 


Page 2 
Ka-News '79 


- Good News...All reports were In by December 18th, 1978 - Merci 
Herwilg...Yours truly has been nominated as Vice-President of the 
Canadian Camping Association...Dave O'D New Year's eve party was 
| understand lots of fun...! was drinking Saki at a Shinto Shrine 
In Tokyo...There were a few choir practices during the holidays - 
Kerry was the loser...Thanks to Bob Gill and Fan Fare Foods for 
the cake and food at the staff Xmas party...It was good to see so 
many of you agaln...Former K.K. counsellor and father of some 
present kampers Is the new Chairman of the Board of the Montreal 
YMCA...Congratulations to John Cleghorn...Gord and | will be 
gotng to the CCA-ACA convention In Minnesota next month. 


Here are a couple of focal conferences that might be of Interest 
to you: 


Ontario Camping Assoclation 
March 2-3-4 


For details contact: 
Ontario Camping Association 
Suite 203 

102 Eglinton Avenue, East 
Toronto, Ontario 

M4P IEl 


Quebec Camptng Association 
March 16 & I7 


For details contact: 
Quebec Camping Assoctation 
2233 Belgrave Avenue 
Montreal, Quebec 

H4A 2L9 


Telephone: 489-1541 


INDIAN PRAYER 


GREAT SPIRIT 


Grant that | 
may not criticise my 
neighbor until | have 


walked a mite In his 
moccasins. 


That's about It for now gang. Sayonara... 


Derek 


