ATTENDANCE : 


REGRETS: 


INVOCATION: 


MINUTES: 


MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE 
METROPOLITAN BUILDING COMMITTEE 
Wednesday, 8th November, 1967. 12:30 p.m. 
Room 251, 1441 Drummond Street. 


Mr |.R. Tait, Chairman, Messrs. C.A. Colpitts, H. 
Umphrey, J.P. Petolas, R.E. Heartz, E. Smith, F.G. 
Hubbard and R.S. Whittingham. 


Messrs. F.F. Fulton, W.D. Robb, N. Wrightson and W.E. 
Adkins. 


The invocation was given by Mr F.G. Hubbard. 


The minutes of the meeting held on 26th October, 1966, 
having previously been circulated were taken as read 
and upon motion duly made and seconded were accepted 
as a correct record of that meeting. 


H.F. HALL BUILDING: 


Perini and Wilson Contracts. 

The Perini contract, by virtue of performance, was 
reported as being complete. Al! progress and holdback 
payments have been disbursed. 


A holdback of $10,000.00 is being retained against the 
Wilson contract, due to the unsatisfactory performance 

of thirty freezers in the Chemistry Department laboratories. 
These freezers have proved unreliable and it has been 

agreed that modifications-are to be made by Wilson to 

render these units operable on a reliable basis. 


The development of the Chapel area, funds for which 

were to be provided exclusively by the University, is 
presently in the hands of the contractor, W. Barr Limited, 
and except for the previously mentioned Wilson deficiency, 
is the only other item outstanding on the Hall Building 
construction programme. 


It was reported that the elevator capacity on both 

freight and passenger facilities had been exhausted. 

In addition, escalators are running at the allowable 

top speed. Consideration is being given to the installation 
of two more elevators, the shaft already being available 
from the original plans. Cost is expected to be in the 

area of $165,000.00 for both units and Province of 

Quebec Government assistance on capital grants for this 
purpose if being sought. 


It was noted that problems with soot in the Hall Building 
are being experienced and it is believed that positive 
steps will have to be taken to avoid contanimation of 
filters and air conditioning water. Measures to resolve 
the situation include a precipitator or a scrubber. The 


ad 4 


Building Committee 8th November, 1967. 


latter is more efficient and Messrs. Keith Associates 

have been asked to enquire into this facility. It was 
pointed out that with the use of a scrubber it would 

be necessary to obtain City of Montreal approval to 

dump slurry into the city's sewers and steps are being 
taken to secure such approval. Anticipated cost of a 
scrubber unit would be in the region of $90,000.00 to 
$100,000.00. Attention was drawn to the probably 
availabitity in the near future of low or free sulphur 
content oil, and this development should not be overlooked. 


BRANCH RENOVATIONS AND REPAIRS: 
The second phase of the ventilating correction programme 
at the Notre Dame de Grace Branch was reported as being 
complete and satisfactory. 


The fire prevention recommencations affecting the stair- 
well in the Westmount Branch were also reported as 
complete. Minor clean-up jobs on this contract were 
being undertaken locally by the Branch. 


ILE PERROT TENTING AND TRAILER CAMP: 
The operation of this project was reported as being 
satisfactory and contributing usefully to the demand for 
accommodation during the Expo period. Preliminary figures 
indicate a surplus of $22,000.00 toward the capital cost 
of the project. 


DOWNTOWN HEALTH CLUB: 
The air conditioning and air circulation difficulties in 
the Massage room of the Downtown Health Club have now 
been resolved through the installation of an air circulating 
unit. These units are giving very satisfactory results. 


DOWNTOWN BUILDING POWER LOAD: 
It was reported that the three transformers supplying 
the Drummond-Stanley building complex are one hundred 
percent loaded and that additional capacity will be 
required in the near future. It was thought doubtful 
that either the transformer suppliers or Quebec Hydro 
would wish to acquire the present transformers although 
it was felt that both these authorities might be aware 
of a customer requiring such equipment. 


It was determined that space availability for the 
installation of new equipment is satisfactory. Professor 
J.P. Petolas agreed to inquire into the alternate 
suggestions of auxillary loading or additional cooling to 
the present equipment. 


NINTH FLOOR RESIDENCE BUILDING: 
The renovations to the ninth floor of the residence 
building were reported as having been satisfactorily 
completed and in full operation. All residence facilities 
were in very heavy demand during the Expo period. 


of 


Building Committee. 8th November, 1967. 


RENOVATIONS TO EIGHTH FLOOR RESIDENCE BUILDING: 
The principle of proceeding with renovations to one 
floor per year of the Residence Building has been 
confirmed by the Executive Committee. The next floor 
scheduled is the eighth floor and after discussion and 
motion duly made and seconded it was 


UNANIMOUSLY RESOLVED 


to authorize the placing of a contract for renovations 

to the eighth floor of the residence building, such 

contract to be with the same contractor and upon the 

same basis as previously entered into for the renovations 
. of the ninth and other floors. 


The Secretary was requested to contact Messrs. Ross, Fish, 
Duschenes & Barrett with a view to implementing this 
resolution. 


FIRE PREVENTION RE CAFETERIA KITCHEN: 
A proposal for a carbon dioxide extinguishing system for 
the cafeteria kitchen at a cost of $6,021.00 was reviewed 
and tabled for later consideration. 


FIRE INSPECTION REPORTS: 
Reports prepared by an insurance company inspector 
concerning measures necessary to minimize fire hazards in 
all Branch buildings have been circulated to those 
concerned. Where possible action is either in hand or 
has already been completed. 


Recommendations included the installation of sprinkler 
system in both the International and Westmount Branches, 
however, due to the age of these buildings this was felt 
+o be an uneconomic proposition. 


TERMINATION OF MEETING: 
There being no further business for consideration the 
meeting was declared terminated at 2:10 p.m. 


EEE UE EEE EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEN 


Chairman. Secretary. 


