MINUTES OF THE MEETING 
Of The 
METROPOLITAN BUILDING COMMITTEE 
Wednesday, November lith, 196), 
Room 253, 1441 Drummond Street, 
12:30 PM. 


ATTENDANCE: I.R. Tait, presiding. Messrs: F.F. Fulton, R.E. Heartz, R.C. Rae, 
W.D. Robb, A.E. Sargent, F.G. Hubbard, R. Whittingham, C.M. McCully. 


Regrets: W.E. Adkins, G.Shaw, H. Umphrey, N. Wrightson. 


GRACE: The minutes of the meeting of April 23rd having been circulated by mail 
were taken as read and approved with the following correction: "The Super- 
vising Fee for the Central Scientific Co. Limited for the contracts on Labora- 
tory Furnishings and Equipment should be 3.4% and not 4% as recorded". 


SGWU--H.F. HALL BUILDING: 

(a) Kitchen Equipment Contract--It was reported that this contract had been 
placed with Robert Mitchell & Co. Itd., the second lowest bidder. After 
much consideration and investigation it was finally decided, with the 
approval of the government officials, that this contract should not be 
awarded to the low bidder for a number of reasons, among which was the 
fact that the cafeteria consultants felt strongly that the company was 
not equipped to do a quality job, an opinion which careful inquiries 
confirmed. The General Contractor is now very satisfied with the way 
in which this matter has been handled and has already had made avail- 
able by Robert Mitchell Co. Ltd. a considerable number of shop drawings 
of equipment to be fabricated. 


(b) Laboratory Furnishings & Equigpment--The tenders for the Lab Furnishings 
and Equipment were opened on October 29th. The low bid was filed by the 
Wilson Scientific Supply Company of Toronto, in an amount of $1,044,500. 
against a budgeted allocation of $1,047,075. Following the submission 
the company immediately made a statement in writing that they could not 
meet the scheduled dates on segments of the work. They were invited to 
review this matter and, at the same time, were given information on 
possible Quebec sources for parts of their contract. Their final report 
is due on November 17th. A deposit from this company of $113,000 is 
being retained and they have been given no indication whatever that they 
could withdraw from their tender obligations. 


In the discussions it was pointed out that all the preliminary work re- 
lating to the development of plans and specifications had been undertaken by 
Central Scientific Co., who would continue to act as consultants and would 
supervise the detailed implementation of the contract for a fee of 3.)%. 


It was pointed out that the General Contractor had been asked to take on 
the responsibility for overall supervision in meeting scheduled dates. There 
will be some cost related to this function, the details of which will be 
available in the near future. 


It was agreed on motion by F.F. Fulton, seconded by R.E. Heartz that the 
action of the Chairman with respect to this contract in holding the lowest 
bidder to his commitment, be confirmed. 


a 


Building Committee Mirates (Cont'd) 


2 


(c) Performance Bond--Further to the action taken at the meeting on April 23 
it was reported for information that a performance bond had been negotiated 
for 50% of the contract price and that the fee was $68,175. 


(d) Procedure Regarding Change Orders--In connection with the approved pro~ 
cedure in dealing with changes indicating that the Chairman of the Building 
Committee be given authority to approve items entailing a cost of %10,000. 
or less, it was agreed that when such items reach the aggregate sum of 
$50,000. they be formally reported to the Building Committee for ratifica- 
tion. 


SGWU~-K.E. NORRIS BUILDING: 


Bursar's and Registrar's Offices--It was reported that the extension to these 
areas are now completed and in use and that the final cost figure was approxi- 
mately $3000 less than the overall estimate of $53,000. 


RENOVATIONS AND REPAIRS: Reference was made to the lengthy memorandum of Branch 


renovations and repairs deferred from the last meeting. Postponement of con- 
sideration was related to completion of negotiations about Branch subsidies 
for 196/65 and final consolidation of budgets. This latter step has now been 
completed. 


It was agreed that L.C. Clark, former Building Superintendent should be 
asked to examine these submissions in detail and make an appraisal of priorities 
for subsequent review by the Committee. 


Since the submissions on Branch repairs have been filed, a condition in 
the terracotta cornice in the Downtown Branch Building has developed which calls 
for extensive renovation in that area. This item will become a part of later 
consideration of these matters. 


SGWU--H.F. HALL BUILDING PROJECT: 


(a) Progress Report: The progress report as submitted by Mr. A.E. Sargent was 
presented as indicated below: 


Satisfactory progress being made in all areas. 

Latest revision of C.P.S. advances date of occupation of 10th floor from 
June 21st 1966 to June 2nd, 1966. 

Structural steel is one full week ahead of schedule. Bridge Co. now prom- 
ises to be off the job on February 9th, 1965 which is one full month earlier 
than the estimated completion date. 

General contractor is now on schedule and is prepared to take full advantage 
of Bridge Co's advanced schedule. This will entail a further tightening of 
schedules for all trades. 

General contractor has strengthened his staff by adding an experienced 
engineer to co-ordinate the work of all trades. This has helped the pro- 
gress of the job and the effect has been noticeable. He now has a staff 

of 18 on the job, 

The architects and engineers have a staff of six on the site full-time 
with others making daily visits or being "on call" as required. 

The number of bodies employed at the site has increased from 10 in April 

to 2h2 at November 7th. 

The contractor's Progress Claim for October was for $1,06),516. and he has 
completed over 2.5 million dollars to date. 


* Building Committee Minutes (Cont'd) 3 


(b) Ratification of Change Orders: Ratification of Change Orders as indicated: 
in a detailed memorandum filed with these minutes, was approved on motion 
by W.D. Robb and seconded by R.C. Rae. The difference between the cumula- 
tive debits and credits as of October 31st is $17,926. 


(c) Furnishings & Equipment Budget Tabulation: The details of the estimate of 
1,781,858. for furnishings and equipment to which reference was made at 
an earlier meeting were reported as follows: 


HENRY F. HALL BUILDING 
Furnishings & Equipment Budget 
as included in project financing to date 


April 23/6) 
Science Faculty 
Laboratory furniture for Biology, Chemistry & physics $932,930 


Geology 17,500 . 

As per CENCO estimater $950,430 
Engineering Faculty- per CENCO estimates 78,070 
Arts Faculty 

Language Laboratories - estimated by department 40,000 
Social Science Lab - "  CENCO 5,000 
Fine Arts studios - " " Bursar's office 23,000 
Psychology laboratory - " " CENCO 11,800 
Statistics laboratory - " " CENCO 2,475 - 82,275 
Total laboratory furniture & equipment 1,110; 775 
Classrooms, Auditoria, Offices and Lounges 43,918 


Includes furniture, drapes, blackboards, 

tackboards, classroom desks, etc. Estimates prepared 

by Bursar's office ° 
Library Furniture 75,165 

Science & Reserve Library - estimate prepared 

by University Librarian 


Cafeteria 
Furniture - estimated by Bursar's Department 25,000 
Dishes and Cutlery - estimated by Bernard & Assoc. 40,000 65 ,000 
Student Lockers 000 @ $15 60, 000 
Maintenance 
12 floor cleaning machines @$2800 36,000 
TOTAL BUDGET 1, 781,858 


As a matter of information the budget allocation for Laboratory Furnishings 
and Equipment of $1,047,075, to which reference is made in an earlier paragraph, 
is confirmed by using the total Laboratory Furnishings and Equipment estimate 
of $1,110,775. less the item for Language Laboratory for 0,000 and Fine Arts 
studios of $23,000 which are excluded from the tenders now under review. 


SALES TAX REFUNDS: Some discussion took place regarding the methods to be used in 
filing claims of refunds of sales tax on construction materials. The government 
offers alternate methods: 

(1) a detailed request documented by aprropriate invoices and certificates. 
(2) the adoption of a formula relating to the total contract. 

It was pointed out that the current formla prevails until December 31/6h. 

The nature of a new forma presumably to be available early in 1965 is 
not known. 

The Chairman pointed out that this matter is the subject of a good deai 
of consideration and review by the Protestant School Board and that, as yet, 


” Building Committee Minutes (Cont'd) h 


no Single method has been adopted. 

Reference was made to a visit of the local inspector who called attention to some 
of the practical problems related to submission of detailed refund claims. 

It was agreed that no final action should be taken on this matter until early in 
1965 when the new procedures are available for review and appraisal. 


ARCHITECT'S FEES: The Chairman referred unofficially to a letter which is forth- 
coming from the architect's asking for reconsideration of the fee structure which 
is now 5.3% of the total contract up to $15,000,000 and 5% for any amount in 
excess of that figure. This fee pattern was confirmed in writing and formally 
recorded in the minutes of April 2h, 1963. The reason behind the desire for a 
reconsideration is related to the architect's suggestion at the outset that in 
lieu of an extra fee of 2.5% on detailed laboratory layouts and air conditioning 
an overall fee of 5.3% would cover this work in the overall $15,000,000 estimate. 
It now appears that instead of a $2,000,000. cost for air conditioning and labora- 
tory layouts the amount will be $3,600,000. In consequence the possibility of 
reverting to the original fee pattern of 5% plus 2.5 is suggested. 

In discussing this matter it was felt that, inasmuch as the details of the 
contract with the architects have been released to government officials and 
confirmed as a part of the total building project, that no change could be made 
without first of all testing the matter with the Provincial Government. 


ADJOURNMENT: The meeting adjourned at 2 pom. 


SECRETARY CHATRMAN 


