MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE 
METROPOLITAN BUILDING COMMITTEE 
Friday, 13th May, 1966. Room 250, 
1441 Drummond Street. 12:30 p.m. 


ATTENDANCE: Mr I.R. Tait, Chairman, Messrs. W.E. Adkins, F.F. Fulton, 
A.E. Sargent, H. Umphrey, F.G. Hubbard, J.P. Petolas and 
R.S. Whittingham. 


REGRETS: Messrs. J. Bryson, R.E. Heartz, E. Smith, W.D. Robb, N. 
Wrightson, G. Shaw, and Dr. R.C. Rae. 


INVOCATION: The invocation was said by Mr. F.G. Hubbard. 


MINUTES: The Minutes of the meeting held on February 9th, 19tt, having 
previously been circulated were taken as read, and unon motion 
duly passed, were accepted as a correct record of that meeting. 


H.F. HALL BUILDING - PROGRESS REPORT: 


Perini and Wilson Contracts. 

Completion of the project is now in sight and to this end hand- 
over procedures are being planned and expedited with the owners. 
Several University departments are now occupying approximately 
fifteen percent of the new building and this will increase to 
twenty-five percent by June lst, 1966, The main areas of 
concern are the completion of science laboratories involving 
the Wilson contract, and the difficulty in securing an adequate 
supply of supervisory personnel. Work on the Wilson contract 
has been slowed by the trucking strike in Ontario which has 
created temporary shortages of material and rendered work co- 
ordination difficult. In addition, work on the sixth floor has 
been impeded by aluminum extrusion material being incorrectly 
cut, thus creating temporary material shortages. Double shift- 
ing in some trades has been intermittent for the past six weeks. 
Every effort is being made to hasten the work, and the general 
contractor is insisting on sub-trades working overtime, however, 
it is believed that it will be difficult to avoid tradespeople 
being in the building at the time of the opening on September 
lst, 1966, 


Ratification of Change Orders. 


A statement of change orders was approved since the last meet- 

ing and a summary of the total contract position to April 30, 
1966, copies of which are attached to and forma vart of these 
Minutes, were reviewed. Upon motion duly made and seconded it was 


UNANIMOUSLY RESOLVED 


that such change orders be and they are hereby ratified and 
accepted as forming a part of the total contract position as 

x at April 30, 1966, now amounting to %19,236,64).6. Care is 
being exercised to restrict change orders to those areas where 
a workable solution renders it absolutely necessary to provide 
additional work. 


Reinstatement of Original Contract Items. 
The Finance and Property Committee have advised that funds are 
available for the reinstating of certain contract items previously 


excluded for reasons of economy. The items agreed to, and upon 
which wrk has already begun, are as follows: 


Down escalator from seventh to sixth floor $ 53,)00.00 


Communications Centre 107,100, 00 
Theatre rigging 100,000, 00 
Decorative glass for indoor campus 8,000, 00 

$268,500. 00 


Renovations to the Norris Building. 


In line with the total overall development of the H.F. Hall 
Building project, negotiations have been completed for the 
renovation and redesigning of the Norris Building, to provide 
for expanded administrative and changed classroom facilities, 
Upon motion duly made and seconded it was 


UNANIMOUSLY RESOLVED 


to ratify the upset price contract of the E.R. Casey Construction 
Company Limited, at a price of $228,229.00, including a fixed 

fee of $12,000.00. It was noted that the contract is approxi- 
mately ten percent below the next lowest price and that the 
assurance has been given that the work will be completed by 
August 3lst, 1966. 


DRUMMOND STREET BUILDING - BOILER FACILITIES: 


It was reported that the Drummond Street building boilers, 
acquired in 1928, have been condemned and that a contract has 
been placed for a new Vicker's oil burning boiler. Preliminary 
installation of pipe work and controls has begun, with completion 
scheduled for September lst, or 15th at the latest. These 
facilities will provide adequate coverage for Winter operations, 
however, we will be dependent on a single boiler operation 
throughout the forthcoming Summer, 


ARCHITECTS! FEES: 
Meetings have been held with the architects in an attempt to 
resolve the question of whether to pay architects' fees on that 
part of the total cost of the work represented by refundable 
federal sales tax. No agreement has been reached. Legal advice 
was sought, which confirmed the opinion that no liability for 
the payment of such fees exists. It was noted, however, that 
additional design and consultative work had been provided by the 
architects without fee. In particular, as this applies toa 
design based on local by-laws which required the building to be 
at a different height front from back. Ultimately this design 


was not required, but was provided by the architects over and 
above their normal fee requirements. Upon motion duly made 
and seconded it was 


UNANIMOUSLY RESOLVED 


that the architects, Messrs. Ross, Fish,Duschenes and Barrett, 
be and they are hereby requested to submit their account for 
additional work as discussed with them. 


FURTHER RESOLVED 


that no payment be made in respect of architects! fees on that 
part of the cost of the work represented by refundable federal 
sales tax, 


VENTILATION OF DOWNTOWN AND NOTRE DAME DE GRACE BRANCH BUILDINGS: 


It was reported the ventilation problems are being experienced 

in the Physical Department of the Downtown Branch, due primarily 
to inoperative heating coils. In addition, some form of air 

c onditioning for the Cafeteria and Coffee Shop has been requested. 


Air circulation and ventilation of the Notre Dame de Grace 
Branch was also reported to be causing serious problems in that 
negative air pressuers exist throughout the whole building. It 
was suggested that if possible these items be deferred until 
after Expo because of current increasing labour costs. However, 
despite this possibility, it was decided to obtain further 
details and costs from our engineers before determining future 
action, 


As part of a preventive maintenance programme it was suggested 
that a systematic inspection of buildings be carried out upon 
an annual basis, and that technical assistance be obtained from 
the University for this purpose. 


RENOVATIONS TO TENTH AND ELEVENTH FLOORS - RESIDENCE BUILDING: 


The renovations to the tenth and eleventh floors of the Residence 
Building are now almost complete. Minor items of drapery and 
pictures still remain outstanding, however, the floors are in 
use and it was reported that the renovated rooms are being well 
received. 


BUILDING COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP: 


The Chairman reported that Mr G. Shaw of the Canadian Pacific 
Railway has now retired and that Mr C.A. Colpitts, who is 
succeeding Mr Shaw, will be happy to serve on this Committee. 


Upon motion duly made and seconded it was 
UNANIMOUSLY RESOLVED 
that the Chairman acknowledge Mr Colpitts! offer and extend 
to him a warm welcome from this Committee. 
TERMINATION OF MSETING: 


There being no further business for consideration the meeting 
was declared terminated at 2:00 p.m. 


Chairman, Secretary. 


