ATTENDANCE: 


REGRETS: 


INVOCATION: 


MINUTES: 


MAJOR REPAIRS 


MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE 

METROPOLITAN BUILDING COMMITTEE 
Wednesday, 13th July, 1966. 12:30 p.m. 

Room 250 = 141 Drummond Street. 


_ 


Mr I.R. Tait, Chairman, Messrs. C. Colpitts, R.E. Heartz, 
F.G. Hubbard, J.P. Petolas, Dr. R.C. Rae, W.D. Robb, 
A.E. Sargent, E. Smith, H. Umphrey and J.A, Hastings. 


Messrs. W.3, Adkins, F.F. Fulton, N. “Wrightson and R.S, 
Whittingham, 


The invocation was given by Mr F.G. Hubbard. 


The Minutes of the meeting held on May 13th, 1966, having 
previously been circulated, were taken as read and upon 
motion by H. Umphrey and A.E. Sargent were taken as a 
correct record of that meeting. 


TO Y¥.M.C.A. BRANCHES 1965-1966: 


It was reported that expenditures during the fiscal 
year ending May 31, 1966, for major repairs to Y.M.C.A. 
Branch buildings, amounted to $37,816.30, Totals by 
Branches are shown on the list filed with these Minutes. 


The authorized limit set for this work last year was 
$40,000.00. Major items in each branch which had 
received attention were reviewed by the Secretary. 


REQUESTS FOR MAJOR REPAIRS IN Y.M.C.A. BRANCHES 1966-1967: 


A summary of repairs and renovations deemed urgently 
needed, and others less immediately necessary, was 
presented - covy of which is filed with these Minutes. 
After a review of the most pressing items it was 
agreed that the Chairman and the Secretary, in con- 
junction with the General Secretary and Mr L.C. Clark, 
would process quotations and decide on the work which 
should be put in hand within the limits of financial 
resources available. A similar arrangement to last 
year's would be made with Mr L.C. Clark, retired 
Y.M.C.A. Superintendent of Buildings, to supervise the 
work, 


of « 


= 2 = 
Metropolitan Building Committee 13th July, 1966 


DRUMMOND COURT BUILDING: 


It was reported that new boilers are being installed 
in the Drummond Court Building, on our north side, 

and in the process they are creating a permanent 
entrance to their basement, at the point where they 
made an opening to admit the new boilers. They seek 
our permission to eliminate our cement wall dividing 
the two properties, to make their entrance more useful. 
Since some legal implications are evident, it was 
recommended that we obtain the advice of our lawyers. 


SIR GSORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY - H.F. HALL BUILDING: 
Ratification of Change Orders. 


A statement of change orders approved since the last 
meeting, cooy of which is filed with these Minutes, 
was reviewed, Upon motion duly made and seconded it 
was 


UNANIMOUSLY RESOLVED 


that such change orders be and they are hereby ratified 
and accepted as forming a part of the total contract 
position now amounting to $19,265,975.15. 


Progress Report. 

Mr A.E. Sargent reported that the University has taken 
occupation of major portions of four floors of the 
H.F. Hall Building and other sections are due to be 
taken over soon. The moving of Departments and staff 
will be seriously hampered soon by the delays created 
by the laboratory equipment contractors. This phase 
of work has given trouble from the start and it appears 
impossible for their finishing dates in August to be 
maintained, This in turn will prevent full occupation 
of the laboratories in September for term onenings, 
and full completion of installation may drag until 
December. 


Advice has just been received by long distance telephone 
call from Toronto that the laboratory contractors, 
Wilson Science Equipment Ltd., has been taken over by 
Canadian Office & School Furniture Co. Whether this 
will aggravate or assist the work is uncertain, but 

some further delays seem inevitable as the supervisory 
personnel on the job are being released. / 


= a 
Metropolitan Building Committee. 13th July, 1966. 


H.F, Hall Building - Prozress Report (Cont'd. ) 
es nsenennsersesnste en enienstneamnee nen oon’ 


Discussion took »lace on whether it would be better 
to take over management of the laboratory equipment 
installation, It was agreed, however, that such a 
step could create more difficulties,as it would be 
dangerous to act independently, and that we must 
struggle through. Some classes will be short of 
laboratory facilities for a month or more. It was 
also agreed that the Principal should request an 
immediate visit to Montreal by the new owners of 
Wilson Science Equipment for consultation with him 
and his advisers on what can be done to improve the 
situation. 


TERMINATION OF MEETING: 


There being no further business the meeting terminated 
at 2:15 p.m. 


Secretary. Chairman. 


