MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF 
THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING COMMITTEE 
Wednesday, November 3, 1965 
Room 253-11 Drummond Strees, 12:30 p.m. 


ATTENDANCE :Mr. I.R.Tait, Chairman, Messrs. R.E.Heartz, W.D.Robb, E.Smith, 
A.E.Sargent, G.Shaw, N.Wrightson, F.G,Hubbard, H.Umphrey, 
R.S.Whittingham 


REGRETS: Messrs. W.E.Adkins, F.F.Fulton, R.C.Rae 
INVOCATION:The invocation was said by R.S.Whittingham 


MINUTES: The minutes of the meeting held on May 14, 1965 having 
previously been circulated were taken as read and upon motion 
duly passed were accepted as a correct record of that meeting. 


H.F.HALL BUILDING ~ PROGRESS REPORT: 


Mr. A.E.Sargent reported that the general progress of the 
building continues to be satisfactory and all schedules are 
being well maintained, 


Significant items of importance were reported as follows: 
e 

Temporary heating assured for week commencing November 15, 

Building totally enclosed except for the 10th floor by 

November 15, 1965. 


Windows being installed at the rate of 50 per day. General 
contractor has agreed to accept responsibility for damage 
resulting from advanced scheduling of window installation 
which is being undertaken to avoid temporary closing in 
with polyethylene. 


Plastering complete on basement, sub-basement and mezzanine, 


Use of epoxy terazzo floors instead of vinyl asbestos tile 
has been rejected due to additional cost of $160,000. which 
is equivalent to a six times replacement factor for norml 
usage of vinyl asbestos tile. Consideration is presently 
being given to using epoxy terazzo on the fourth and fifth 
floors in heavy traffic areas only. 


Escalator frame work installed to the top floor; escalator 
gear work presently being installed. 


Masonry work schedule much improved. 
Roofing complete except for flashing. 


On the basis of present progress it is expected that the 
building will be fully complete for occupancy as scheduled, 
however, some concern is felt about the timing for the insta- 
llation of lab furnishings. 

wéiwwie 


(2) 
Minutes cont'd 
LABORATORY FURNISHINGS CONTRACT: 


A misunderstanding with Wilson Science Equipment Limited 
regarding the posting of a performance bond has resulted in 
difficulties in obtaining this bond from the Wilson Company. 
The non-availability of appropriate signatures from Wilson 
Science Equipment Limited has been explained to the bonding 
company who are attempting to remedy this situation. It was 
stated that the Wilson Company have been behind schedule on 
all requirements, however, commencing Monday November 8, 1965 
this company will assign one man solely to the H.F.Hall project 
and it is expected that a marked improvement will result. This 
position is being watched closely by our Architects and Consultants. 


RATIFICATION OF CHANGE CRDERS: 


A statement of change orders apprcved since the last meting 
and a summary of the total contract position to November 1, 1965 
copies of which are filed with these minutes were reviewed. Upon 
motion duly made it was 


UNANIMOUSLY RESOLVED 


that such change orders be and they are hereby ratified and 
accepted as forming a part of the total contract position now 
amounting to $19,022,263. 


FEDERAL SALES TAX CLAIM: 


It was reported that a claim for refund of Federal Sales 
Tax in amount $369,682.60 had been filed with the Federal Excise 
Department. Subsequently our records have been examined by a 
Federal Sales Tax Awiitor who has questioned the validity of 
including some items on the grounds that they are"not incorporated 
in the building! These items include, equipment rental, setting 
up office permits, fire insurance, temporary services, kitchen 
equipment. It was agreed that the Federal Sales Tax Auditor 
would apply to Ottawa for a ruling on these items and as of this 
date no reply has been received. 


PROVINCE OF QUEBEC SALES TAX ON BUILDING CONSTRUCTION: 


It was noted that present Quebec legislation does not pro- 
vide for a refund of sales tax on the construction of educational 
buildings. In consequence it was decided to defer any further 
action with the Province in this regard until further information 
becomes available from other educational construction projects. 


A request from Perini Quebec Incorporated to discontinue 
their monthly reporting of sales tax information was refused at 
this time. It was thought advisable that Perini continue to 
provide sales tax information in accordance with the contract, 
until the position with Quebec had been further clarified and 
the Federal refund claim realized. 

saved 


(3) 
Minutes cont'd 
ARCHITECTS FEES: 


As indicated in the minutes of the meeting of May 14, 1965 
the question of Messrs, Ross, Fish, Duschenes and Barrett making 
a donation to the University campaign equivalent to that part of 
their fee as calculated on the refundable portion of the 11% 
Federal Sales Tax, has been Suggested to them. To date no reply 
has been received and it is presumed that this suggestion is 
still under consideration by them. 


DOWNTOWN BRANCH LOCKER ROOM RENOVATIONS: 


The General Secretary stated that he had received a roport 
from the Downtown branch outlining a proposal for 4 substantial 
re~arrangement .of the lowor floor facilitics to meet .the’ increasing 
requirements of the senior and business men's health club member- 


Secretary to request further details and costs from the Building 
and Furnishings Service, New York. Further action is deferred 


BRANCH RENOVATIONS AND REPAIRS: 


A program of Branch renovations and repairs has been in 
Progress throughout the summer and fall months a significant 
part of which has been the conversion of furnace operations at 
International, N.D.G. and Westmount Branches from coal burning 
to oil burrer operations, The change over at International is 
complete, Westmount is operating one boiler on oil with the 
second boiler in process of conversion and N.D.G, will be fully 
converted when present coal stocks are exhausted, 


TERMINATION OF MEETING: 


There being no further business for consideration the meeting 
was declared terminated at 1:55 p.m. 


S Chairman 


ecretary 


