ATTENDANCE: 


REGRETS: 
INVOCATION: 


MINUTES: 


MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF 
THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING COMMITTEE 
Wednesday, 26 October, 1966, 12:30 P.M, 
Room 252 = 141 Drummond St. 


Mr I.R. Tait, Chairman, Messrs. R.E. Heartz, W.D. Robb, C.A. 
Colpitts, H. Umphrey, N. Wrightson, R. Rogers, A.E. Sargent, 
R. Bannerman, J.A. Hastings, S. Steele, E. Smith and R.S. 
Whittingham. 


Messrs F.F, Fulton, W.E. Adkins, R.C. Rae, F.G. Hubbard. 

The invocation was given by Mr R.S. Whittingham. 

The Minutes of the meeting held on 13th July, 1966, having 
previously been circulated, were taken as read and upon motion 


by Mr R.E. Heartz and Mr H. Umphrey were accepted as a correct 
record of that meeting. 


H.F. HALL BUILDING PROGRESS REPORT: 


Perini and Wilson Contracts. 

Mr A.E, Sargent reported that the building was now virtually 
complete, excepting for deficiencies and the proving-out of the 
mechanical equipment. It was noted that the balancing of air 
conditioning will be continuing for some months. Deficiencies 

in five labs on the ninth floor are presently receiving attention - 
all other labs are fully operational. Since the change of 
supervision on the Wilson Contract, some six weeks ago, the 
efficiency on these onverations has been much improved, It is 
expected that the Wilson Contract will be complete by mid November, 
but pressure will be necessary to achieve this objective. 

Building deficiencies on the general contract are to be cleared 

by the end of October, except for the major changes involving 

the escalator, which should be completed by mid November, and 

the communications centre which should be complete by the end 

of November, 


Ratification of Change Orders. 
It was reported that change orders presently outstanding numbered 


two on the Wilson Contract and 12 on the Perini Contract. A 
statement of change orders approved since the last meeting, copy 
of which is attached to and forms a part of these Minutes, was 
reviewed, Upon motion duly made and seconded it was 


UNANIMOUSLY RESOLVED 


that such change orders be and they are hereby ratified and 
accepted as forming a part of the total contract nosition on 
both contracts. 


It was acknowledged that the delay in completion of laboratory 
facilities in the H.F. Hall Building had caused substantial 
inconvenience to University faculty and staff and that a high 
order of tolerance and co-operation had been exhibited by all 
concerned. 


me 


RENOVATIONS TO THE NORRIS BUILDING: 
Good progress is being maintained on the renovations to the 
Norris Building which are expected to be complete by mid 
November. Some difficulties have been encountered with the 
provision of air conditioning on the second floor in that the 
proposed installation was not acceptable to the Registrar. 
Present plans call for one eleven ton and one fifteen ton 
refrigeration unit which it was felt would nrovide adequate 
temperature control. It was noted that an additional $20,000.00 
would be necessary to provide the type of air conditioning 
requested for the second floor, Discussion revealed that this 
could probably be effected at a leter date at less cost. 
Therefore, upon motion duly made and seconded, it was 


UNANIMOUSLY RESOLVED 


to defer the installation of the type of air conditioning 
requested by the Registrar and to proceed on the basis of the 
present plans. 


DOWNTOWN BOILER ROOM FACILITIES: 
It was reported that the installation of a Vickers oil fired 
boiler in the basement of the Drummond Street property was 
almost complete. Work is continuing on a satisfactory basis 
and steam could be raised immediately if an emergency made 
this necessary, however, automatic controls were not yet fully 
available. 


REPAIRS AND RENOVATIONS TO BRANCH BUILDINGS: 
A review of the most urgent repairs required to branch buildings 
has been completed and revealed expenditures totalling $27,000.00, 
of which $2,500.00 has been committed involving miscellaneous 
improvements to all branch buildings. The major item of rcp: 
concerned ventilation to the Downtown Building Physical Devartment 
which is in process. 


The Chairman reported that a meeting had taken place between 
himself, the architects, engineers, and Notre Dame de Grace 
staff, in connection with the circulation of air in the N.D.G. 
Building. The engineers had devised a schedule involving 

five different phases, for a total cost of $69,700.00. It was 
the opinion of the architects that this quotation would soon 
become invalid due to rising costs and that action should be 
implemented as soon as possible. It was felt that the gymnasium 
was the most urgent and costs were estimated at approximately 
$30,000.00, 


RENOVATIONS TO NINTH FLCOR RESIDENCE BUILDING: 
It was reported that the Finance and Property Committee had 
agreed to make available the necessary funds to renovate and 
refurnish the ninth floor of the Residence Building. After due 
consideration and upon motion duly made and seconded it was 


UNANIMOUSLY RESOLVED 


to authorize the placing of a contract for the above renovations, 


wD a 


such contract to be with the same contractor and won the same 
basis as previously entered into for the renovations of the 
tenth and eleventh floors during the Fall of 1965. 


DEVELOPMENT OF ILE PERROT PROPERTY: 
A plan for the development of the Ile Perrot Property as a 
Summer camp and trailer site, initially to provide such facilities 
during the Expo period, and subsequently to provide an exnanded 
day camp facility for the total Association, was presented by 
Messrs S. Steele and R. Bannerman of the Lakeshore Branch. 
Details of the plan, specifications and costs were examined and 
it was noted that the Finance and Property Committee had agreed 
to make provision for a loan of $65,000.00 to the Lakeshore 
Branch for this undertaking. It was stated that if the pronosed 
facilities are utilized only to the extent of 0% of total 
capacity during the period of Expo, it was anticipated that 
approximately two thirds of the capital investment could be 
recovered during that period. Due to high installation costs 
electric wiring was to be made available to only thirty of the 
ninety trailer sites. Upon enquiry as to the possible future 
financial position of these facilities it was stated that 
present experience indicates that Summer camping operations in 
the Lakeshore area will be either a break-even or surplus 
operation. Upon motion of Messrs. R. Heartz and C.A. Colpitts 
it was 


UNANIMOUSLY RESOLVED 


to grant authority to the Chairman to sign a contract with the 
H.C. Johnston Company, in accordance with details submitted to 
this meeting, such contract to have an upset price of $65,000.00 
and to include a combined 10% fee to the contractor, and the 
architect, Mr Hugh Valentine. It was agreed that vrogress 
payments on the abovementioned contract would be subject to the 
approval of the architect. Authorization was also granted to 
have the Ile Perrot site surveyed by a Quebec Land Surveyer, at 
a cost not in excess of $800.00, which cost to include the 
provision of a Certificate of Location. 


RESIDENCE TELEPHONE FACILITIES: 
It was noted that the Finance and Property Committee had authorized 
finances to be made available, not in excess of $2,000.00 per 
annum, for the provision of improved telephone facilities in 
the Downtown Residence, Such facilities would enable direct 
dialling of local calls and the automatic recording of such 
calls for improved efficiency at the Residence Desk checking-out 
operation. Upon motion duly made and seconded it was 


UNANIMOUSLY RESOLVED 


to authorize the placing of a contract with the Bell Telenhone 
Company for the modernization of the Residence telephone 
service as indicated above. 


TERMINATION OF MEETING: 


There being no further: business for consideration, the meeting 
was declared terminated at 2:30 P.M. 


Chairman Secretary. 


