MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE 
METROPOLITAN BUILDING COMMITTEE 
Wednesday 9th February, 1966 
Room 252 - 1441 Drummond Street, 12:30 p.m. 


ATTENDANCE: Mr. I.R. Tait, Chairman, Messrs. F.F. Fulton, W.D. 
Robb, A.E, Sargent, G. Shaw, E. Smith, H. Umphrey, 
N. Wrightson, Principal R.C. Rae, Professor J.P. 
Petolas, R.S. Whittingham. 


REGRETS: Messrs, W.E, Adkins, R.E, Heartz, J. Bryson, F.G. 
Hubbard, R. Rogers, 

INVOCATION: The invocation was caid by R.S. Whittingham. 

MINUTES: The minutes of the meeting held on December 28th, 


1965, having previously been circulated were taken 


as read and upon motion duly passed were accented 
as a correct record of that meeting. 


H.F. HALL BUILDING - PROGRESS R®PORT: 
Perini and Wilson Contracts. 


Mr A.E. Sargent renorted on construction progress 
and the following noints were noted: 


On-site meetings are being held twice a week, between 
the owner, the contractor and the architect, to 
achieve closer coordination and supervision. The 
previous off-site meetings have now been discontinued. 


Masonary work is now almost complete on the ninth 
floor and will shortly be commenced on the tenth 
floor. 


Deficiency lists have been prepared for all rooms 
and are being acted upon. 


Installation of laboratory equipment has been commenced, 


University Denvartment Heads are assisting in the over- 
all supervision of the building by being frequently on 
the job site, The new manager of the Premises Division, 
Mr. Sire, is also spending considerable time on the 

job site. 


a Os 


The fourth and fifth floor lobbies are being 
finished with durazzo instead of vinyl asbestos 
tiles, for an additional total cost in excess 

of $12,000.00. The price differential per square 
foot was a dollar and a quarter for durazzo, 
against thirty cents for vinyl asbestos tiles. 


The overall progress of the building was considered 
to be satisfactory, although it was acknowledged 
that crisis situations were likely to develop as 
the completion date draws nearer. 


Ratification of Change Orders. 


A statement of change orders avproved since the last 
meeting and a summary of the total contract »osition 
to February 8th, 1966, copies of which are filed and 
form a part of these minutes, were reviewed. Upon 
motion duly made and seconded it was 


UNANIMOUSLY RESOLVED 
that such change orders be and they are hereby 


ratified and accepted as forming a part of the total 
contract position now amounting to %19,038,028.00. 


General Contract - Consideration of deleted items. 
Considerable discussion ensued around the possibility 
of reinstating certain items in the general contract 
which had earlier been deleted for reasons of economy. 
The most significant of these, and approximate prices, 


are as follows: 


a) The down escalator between the 
seventh and sixth floors. $40, 000, 00 


b) Theatre rigging and lighting. $95,000.00 
c) The stained glass windows on the 

Bishop Street side of the indoor 

campus. $ 5,000.00 


d) The mral in the main lobby No vrice available 


e) The communications centre No price available 


> 


It was noted that in some instances it was important 
to make the installation at the present time, other- 
wise construction difficulties and high costs would be 
faced in making these changes at a later date. 


The abovenoted items have been discussed with the 
Province of Quebec but until the building has been 
completed, they will not commit themselves to any 
further financial assistance, other than that already 
established. The Provincial Government have no 
objection to these items being included in the over- 
all fabric of the building, however, financing 

would have to come from the University's own re- 
sources. After a thorough review of the circumstances 
surrounding the abovementioned requirements, and unon 
motion duly made and seconded it was 


UNANIMOUSLY RESOLVED 


to approve in principle the implementation of items 
Nat, Mb", "cl and "el", such approval being subject 
to the securing of satisfactory prices and the 
availibility of sufficient finances. Item "'d" - 
the mural in the main lobby - was to be further 
considered at a later date. 


In connection with the above resolution it was noted 
that $214,000.00 is available as interest on Canada 
Council Grants and that half of this money - $107,000.00 
has recently been received. The balance is expected 
upon completion of the building. 


RENOVATIONS TO TENTH AND ELEVENTH FLOORS RESIDENCE BUILDING: 


It was reported that work on the renovations of the 
tenth and eleventh floors of the residence building 
was proceeding satisfactorily. Conduit and gyproc 
installation is nearly complete amd wall coverings 
are due for commencement in about ten days time. 

Some difficulty is being experienced in the vrocure- 
ment of carpeting within the requisite time limits. 
However, this item is being expedited and honefully 
will not cause delays. Contracts for furnishings amd 
draperies have been »laced, with deliveries requested 
for March 2th. At the present time the opening date 
of April lst appears to be reasonably possible, and 
the general contractor is exerting every effort to 
meet this objective. 


si ts 


DOWNTOWN BRANCH LOCKER ROOM RENOVATIONS: 


It was reported that some reconsideration of the 
Downtown Locker Room study by the Buildings and 
Furnishings Services, New York, has been thought 
necessary. If the proposed locker room expansion 
is approved there is some question whether shower 
head facilities would be adequate to meet the 
demands of an expanded locker room. In consequence, 
it has been thought advisable for the New York 
Buildings and Furnishings Services representative 
to do a feasibility study on the ratio of »ronosed 
enlarged locker room facilities to other building 
services requirements, and for such feasibility 
study to be examined before proceeding with the 
total overall stndy. 


OTHER BUSINSSS: 


Reference was made to the placing in motion of 

the correct »rocedures for the construction of 
another major building for Sir George Williams 
University. The Chairman stated that this would 
appear to be a matter primarily for consideration 
by the Planning Committee of the University, and 
subsequently to be placed before the Joint Executive 
Committee, but that in any event it was nota 

matter fa consideration by this Committee. 


Principal R.C. Rae drew attention to the date far 

the special convocation of the University for purposes 
of opening the H.F. Hall Building. This date has 
been set at Friday, October llth, 1966, 


Attention was drawn to the necessity of inscribing 
a suitable plaque with reference to the Minister of 
Education, Province of Quebec, The Honourable Gerin 
Lajoie, and to Mr. W.N. Hall, Chairman of the H.F. 
Hall Building Capital Campaign. 


TERMINATION O}!? MWSRTING: 


There being no other business for consideration the 
meeting was declared terminated at 2:00 p.m, 


Chairman. Secretary. 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY 
HENRY F. HALL BUILDING 


Change orders approved from last report of December 22, 1965, to 
February 9, 1966. 


BUILDING (PSRINI CONTRACT) 


No. DESCRIPTION DEBIT CREDIT 
117/2 Change hardware door 105/113 $313. 

118 Delete some locks on glass panel doors $3,500, 
126 Alterations to Library areas 390. 
160 Change reinforcing steel penthouse slab No charge 


164 Electrical outlets for Direction lights $952. 

169 Revise M.C.C. # M.2.B. from 50 to 601P, $92. 

172 Utility cases in walls of Psychology dept. No charge 
173 Delete putty coat behind lockers & 
176 Replace V.A.T. with durazzo Lobbys 01, 


Sol. $12128, 
182 Exhaust system for constant temp. rooms cancelled 
183 Sculptured screen in Main Lobby No charge 
18) Relocate sink room 1057 in room 1068 *20h. 
185 Translucent glass from Fine Arts to kitchen$00. 
186 Audio Visual consol controls cancelled 
190 Changes to theatre stage floor $778. 
192 Steel supports for light fixtures $126, 
193 Inside flashing to Louvres Mezz.Z 672, 
198 Extend some partitions Mezz.Z $326, 
203 Gasline to Metallurgy Lab. $261. 
205 Redesign screen around penthouse $1,519. 
208 Change some electrical fixtures #92S 

#963 $671. 
a Alterations to door to parking area $152. 

TOTAL $18,773. h,886. 


LAB FURNITURE (WILSON CONTRACT) 


No. DESCRIPTION DEBIT CREDIT 
3B Replace some open cabinets with glazed $2, 13. 
i Relocate sink from # 1057 to 1068 No charge 
17 Reduce height of all wood wall cases No charge 
18 Masonite backs to wall cases sixth floor 42,760. 
19 Change size of some units in Chemistry 

Lab. No charge 


TOTAL $2,760. $2,143. 


