MINUTES OF THE MEETING 
Of The 
METROPOLITAN BUILDING COMMITTEE 
Friday, January 15th, 1965, 
Room 253, 41 Drummond Street, 
12:30 P.M. 


ES aap eeneseEdaccereenentees 


ATTENDANCE : I.R. Tait, presiding. Messrs: W.E. Adkins, R.E. Heartz, W.D. Robb, 
A.E. Sargent, 5. Smith, H. Umphrey, C.M. McCully, R.S. Whittingham. 


Regrets: Prin. R.C. Rae, F.F. Fulton, G. Shaw, N. Wrightson, F.G. Hubbard. 
GRACE: C.M. McCully said Grace. 


MINUTES : The minutes of November 11, 196) having been circulated by mail 
were taken as read and approved, 


SALES TAX REFUNDS: eference was made to a previous review of this subject, in 
which it was decided to await details on the new government forma for filing 
claims for refunds of sales tax on construction materials. The alternate 
methods are: 

(1) A detailed request documented by appropriate invoices and certificates. 
(2) The acceptance of a formula offered by the Federal Government which is 
in one dimension for refunds claimed up to December 31,196) and in 

another for those subsequent to that date. 


After discussing the matter further it was decided that the method 
to be adopted would be a Submission of detailed requests based upon the actual 
tax collected and paid on invoices, 


Tax of 6% is now levied on the application of the 11% Federal Sales Tax and 
that a refund from that source can also be claimed, that the Association's 
auditors should be asked to prepare the initial claims and advise concerning 
the procedure to be followed subsequently. 


ARCHITECT'S FEES: A formal letter requesting reconsideration of the fee struc- 
ture for the architect's Services, particularly in the area of mechanical 
Service, air conditioning and laboratory layouts, was reviewed. The details 
of the request had been discussed in a preliminary way at the last meeting. 


Specifically the request asked for the application of a 24% fee on 
mechanical and electrical service, etc., to a sum of $3,600,000. rather than 
$2,000,000. as originally estimated. This request is made against the back- 
ground of an agreement that the extra fee would have been met by the applica- 
tion of 0.3% on a total contract fee of $15,000,000. In the discussion cer- 
tain aspects of the matter were emphasized: 


(1) The detailed laboratory drawings which were to be the responsibility 
of the architects did not have to be produced by them. 

(2) There has not been extras to the original contract in the amount of 
$1,600,000. In other words the overall contract has not been sub- 
stantially increased by virtue of the matter under discussion. 


Minutes=Bldg. Committee (Cont'd. ) 2 


(3) If the contract has been increased in any dimension by virtue of 
mechanical, electrical, etc. services, the architect's themselves 
will benefit from the application of their 5% fee even though the 
work will have been done by the engineers, 


After considerable discussion it was agreed that the Chairman should review 
the matter further with the architects, with authority to discuss a compromise 
of some dimension. It was felt that inasmuch as the matter has been brought 
into focus by an error in calculations by the arehitects that they should be 
prepared to accept some responsibility for the effects of the error. On the 
other hand it was also felt that the engineering consultants should not be 
asked to accept the full loss for what they claim was not their mistake. The 
possibility of a compromise expressed in terms of a fixed sum was felt to be 
more desirable than to revert to the original contract with the application of 
2.5% fee.. on all electrical, mechanical etc., services. 


BRANCH RENOVATIONS AND REPAIRS: A Progress Report was made on this matter. It 
was recalled that a detailed submission of the consolidated request of all Branches 
had been reviewed at a meeting a few months ago. At that time action was delayed 


pending completion of budget discussions and final consolidation of budget esti- 
mates. 


In the meantime, Mr. L.C. Clark has investigated each branch request by inspect- 
ing the properties concerned. A comprehensive report is now available. It is 
quite obvious that requests require classification into: 


(1) Urgent in order to maintain properties. 

(2) Necessary but with less urgency and subject to a possible further post- 
ponement. 

(3) Desirable, subject to the availability of funds. 


The matter was. referred to the subcommittee of the Chairman, A.E. Sargent 
and R.S. Whittingham with power to add, to formulate specific recommendations to 
go to the Finance Committee. 


PROGRESS REPORT=-H.F. HALL BUILDING: Further details of Change Orders which are 
filed with these minutes, were presented which reflected a net credit to the 
contract as of January 13, 1965 of $69,600. 


The January progress is satisfactory. The topping off ceremony in relation 
to steel erection took place on January 12th, one month ahead of schedule. The 
work of the general contractor is one week ahead of schedule. 


Reference was made to the outstanding reimbursement which was due for the’ 
November progress payment. The progress payment for December is now due and, 
based upon telephone inquiries, it would appear that funds will be forthcoming 
from Quebec within a day or two. 


MANAGER OF PREMISES DIVISION: .. The Chairman reported that as a result of a very 
careful search for a manager of the premises division to relate to the YMCA 
building on Drummond Street, the K.E. Norris Building and the H.F. Hall Building, 
Mr. George Baird had been engaged to assume duties on February 15. Mr. Baird is 
currently in charge of the former Royal Bank Building at 360 St. James St. He 
has AB and R certificates and is well qualified to assume these new respon- 
sibilities. 


ADJOURNMENT: The meeting adjourned at 2 pem. 


Secretary Chairman 


