MINUTES OF THE 
METROPOLITAN BUILDING COMMITTEE ‘ 
THURSDAY, MARCH 28, 1963 
STANLEY ROOM 
12:30 p.m. 


lor 


ATTENDANCE: I. R. Tait, presiding. Messrs: H. Umphrey, E. Smith, 
J. P. Petolas representing R. C. Rae, F. F. Fulton, 
A. E. Sargent, R. A. Dickinson, C. M. McCully. 


GRACE: C. M. McCully said grace. 
MINUTES: The minutes of the meeting of February 20 th having been circula- 
ted by mail were taken as read and approved. 


FLOOR LAY-OUTS: Following the request made at the previous meeting details 

S.G.W.U. BUILDING of floor lay-outs with other relevant information were 

PROJECT placed in the hands of all mexbers of the committee. These 
appear on file in the minutes. 


CRITICAL PATH SCHEDULE: Both the Chairman and Mr. Sargent reported progress in 
discussing this matter with the architects. A number of people 
have been consulted and the architects are studying the matter 
carefully. Mr. Sargent is to review the subject further with 
the architects. It was the feeling of members of the committee 
that the basic idea inherent in critical path scheduling coul” 
be implemented at once by the architects in their production of 
detailed drawings and specifications. Further use of the tech- 
nique was considered very desirable and discussions are to con- 
tinue with the architects to review implications of this possi- 
bility. 


EARTHQUAKE PROTECTION: It was agreed that the recommendation of the architects, 
which has been confirmed by an officer of the Provincial Government, 
that the structural design of the Sir George Williams University 
new building should be based on Zone 2 for earthquake requirements, 
be approved. This action would safeguard the risks inherent in 
what is considered to be an intermediate risk category. 


It was pointed out that a new section of the building code is now 
being developed to include regulations relating to earthquakes and 
this action, therefore, would conform to what is now becoming 

more general practice. 


The additional cost of the structural steel frame may be 10% or 
approximately $120,000. 


ARCHITECTS FEES: In the original contract with the architects provision is 
made for an additional fee of 2.5% to the 5% fee relating to: 
"Detailed laboratory layouts and air cenditioning". 


The architects now advise that in the original building estimate of 
$15,000,000. and amount of $5,000,000. is included for all mechani- 
cal and electrical services. $2,000,000 represents the estimate 
for air conditioning and laboratory services. The additional fee 


REQUEST BANK 


oe Ow 


would be approximately $50,000. In order to arrive at the exact 
fee it would be necessary to determine the actual breakdown of 

the mechanical and electrical contractors costs which is difficult 
to do with any precision. 


It is suggested, therefore, that the fee be altered to .3% of the 
total cost which on the $15,000,000 project would be $5,000. 


It was agreed that the suggested revision in the fee basis be 
approved with the understanding that the 5.3 percentage would 
apply to a maximum of $15,000,000. and thereafter revert to 5%. 


This matter is to be discussed further with the architects. 


OF MONTRHAL: The request of the Bank of Montreal that this 
institution be accorded first opportunity for the sole banking 
rights in the new building was considered. It was pointed out 
that the practice of establishing "On campus banks" of chartered 
banks in different universities has already been in operation in 
other Canadian universities. 


The members of the committee were sympathetic to the request but 
felt that it would be impossible to sacrifice space which has 
already been carefully allocated for university purposes and 

this action having been taken after months of study and discussion. 


Under the circumstances the committee regrets that there is no 
space available within the building project for such purposes and 
suggests that the decision with respect to further action in this 
connection is a policy matter for the attention of the Executive 
Committee. 


APPROVAL OF LAYOUT PLANS: Layout plans in detail were presented to the 


ADJOURNMENT : 


SECRETARY . 


committee and formally approved with the understanding that, 
except for minor details, the basic plan is not to be subject to 
further change. It now becomes the basis on which detailed 
drawings are to be developed. 


The meeting adjourned at 2 o'clock. 


CHATRMAN 


