ATTENDANCE: 


REGRETS: 


INVOCATION: 


MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF 
THE M&TROPOLITAN BUILDING COMMITTEE 
Tuesday, December 28, 1965. 
Room 253 ~ 141 Drummond Street, 12:30 p.m. 


Mr I.R. Tait, Chairman, Messrs W.D. Robb, N. Wrightson, 
A.%. Sargent, F. Fulton, R. Rae, F.G. Hubbard, R. Rogers, 
J. Hastings, R.S. “whittingham. 


Messrs R.E, Heartz, E. Smith, H. Umphrey, W.%. Atkins, 
G. Shaw. 


The invocation was said by R. Rogers. 


H.F. HALL BUILDING - PROGRESS REPORT. 


RATIFICATION 


It was reported that a top level meeting held with 
Perini to discuss concerns over the general progress of 
the contract had resulted in a marked improvement in work 
tempo. At that meeting an individual trade and floor by 
floor review was undertaken, and the significance of the 
concerns felt by the owners was conveyed to the contractor... 
Difficulties were being experienced with the supply of 
some materials, noteably glazed block and convectors, It 
was agreed that meetings of this kind are to continue on 
a monthly basis to ensure close swervision of all major 
problems. 


OF CHANGE CRDERS: 


A statement of change orders approved since the last 
meeting, and a summary of the total contract position to 
December 22nd, 1965, copies of which are filed with these 
minutes, were reviewed. Upon motion duly made it was 


UNANIMOUSLY RESOLVED 


that such change orders be and they are hereby ratified 
and accepted as forming a part of the total contract 
position now amounting to *19,023,52).00. 


- Dd. 


WILSON SCIENCE EQUIPMENT LIMITED: 


It was agreed that due to a misunderstanding and 
subsequent difficulties with the Wilson Company it would 
now be advisable to request cancellation of the Laboratory 
equipment and furnishings performance bond. Upon motion 
duly made and seconded it was 


UNANIMOUSLY RESOLVED 


that approval be and it is hereby granted for the Financial 
Secretary to request the insurance underwriters, Canadian 
General Insurance Company Ltd., to cancel forthwith the 
performance bond with Wilson Science Equipment Limited. 


Progress on the laboratory furnishings contract is proceed- 
ing satisfactorily, with materials being delivered well 
ahead of schedule. The first progress billing on the 
Wilson contract in amount ‘120,000.00 has been received 
and after consideration it was decided to settle this 
account immediately. Subsequent billings will be paid 
after receiving proof of payment by the contractor of 
previous commitments, or some other suitable indemity 
against liens of subcontractors and suppliers. Consider- 
ation was given to consolidating both the general and 
furnishings contract under the sunervision of Perini to 
avoid difficulties between the two major contractors 
regarding building damage. The cost however was pro- 
hibitive and this suggestion was therefore discarded, 


RENOVATIONS TO TENTH AND SLEVENTH FLOORS RESL?SNCE B'TILDING: 


In accordance with a policy established by the 
Executive Committee to attempt to renovate the remaining 
eight floors of the Residence Building as soon as was 
convenient, and upon motion duly made and seconded, it was 


UNANIMOUSLY RESOLVED 


that work should proceed with the negotiation of contracts 
required for the renovation and refurnishing of the tenth 
and eleventh floors of the Residence Building and authority 
is hereby granted to the Chairman to sign such contracts as 
are necessary within the scope as defined by the minutes 


= 3s 


of the Metropolitan Board dated December 20th, 1965. It 
was noted that timing was critical in that work should be 
undertaken immediately, for completion by April 1966, in 
order to take advantaze of the most economical time in 
terms of low demand for residence accomodation during this 
period. In addition, it was intended to convert the old 
shower accomodation on the third, eleventh and twelfth 
floors into luxury type bedroom accomodation with shower 
attached, such showers to be finished in ceramic tiles. 


DOWNTOWN BRANCH LOCKSR ROOM RENOVATIONS: 


It was recommended that further information be obtained 

on the scope of renovations provosed for the Downtown 

Branch for the enlargement of Downtown locker room facilities, 
and that the building and furnishing services in New York 

be required to prepare a detailed study on this proposal. 

The cost of this study was not to be in excess of $2,000.00, 


FODERAL SALES TAX ON H.F. HALL BUILDING: 


It was reported that implementation of the formula method 
of claiming federal sales tax refunds on the H.F. Hall 
Building had now resulted in the realization of the first 
claim totalling ‘3373,310.09, covering the period March 

1964 to July 1965 inclusive. It was noted that the assess-~ 
ment is made on the date of payment of the sales tax and 
not on the date of billing by the general contractor. 


DOWNTOWN BOILER ROOM FACILITIES: 


Consideration was given to the necessity for installing 

a new boiler to replace the two original YMCA boilers now 
condemned. Messrs James P. Keith & Assocs., Consultants, 
have prepared a report on requirements and layout which is 
presently being studied before inviting price quotations. 
It was stated that as heating now comes under the jurisdic- 
tion of the Sir George Williams University it was believed 
that the installation of a new boiler would also be the 
responsibility of the University. The possibility of using 


i Tce 


low-cost interruptable gas, with oil as an auxillary fuei, 
was discussed, and it was agreed that further information 
on the source of suosply of interruptable gas would be 
obtained. While at the present time there is no standby 
equipment other than the condemned boilers, it was believed 
that the latter facilities would be sufficient to meet an 
emergency situation should this arise. 


H.F. HALL BUILDING CONTRACT DELETIONS: 


It was revorted that the Quebec YVovernment were now request-~ 
ing details of those items originally pared from the specific- 
ations of the H.F, Hall Building to reduce costs. A list 

has been nrepared which is to be forwarded to Quebec, the 
most significant items being; 


1. The down escalator between the seventh and sixth floors, 


2. The stained glass on the Bishop Street side of the 
indoor campus, 


3. The theatre rigging and lighting, and 
h. A mural in the main lobby. 


It was the feeling that while economies were necessary in 
earlier planning, it was now realised that some of the 
deleted items were of significant importance to the total 
satisfactory operation of the building, ani if at all 
possible, serious consideration should now be given to 
reinstating them. It was noted that this point of view 

is to be pursued with Quebec when next reviewing the capita! 
grants for 1966/1967. It was agreed that favourable con- 
sideration should be given to the aforementioned proposals, 
providing sufficient finances can be obtained. 


TERMINATION OF MEETING: 


There being no further business for consideration, the 
meeting was declared terminated at 2:00 p.m. 


Chairman Secretary 


