A 


MINUTES OF MEFTING 
OF THE 
METROPOLITAN BUILDING COMMITTEE 
Held in the Stanley Room 
Wednesday, April 2th, 1963 


12 230 PeMe 


ATTENDANCE: I. R. Tait, presiding. Messrs: R. A. Dickinson, R. E. Heartz, 
F. G. Hubbard, A. E. Sargent, G. Shaw, E. Smith, H. Umphrey, C. M. McCully. 


GRACE: F. G. Hubbard said grace. 


MINUTES: The minutes of the meeting of March 28th having been circulated by 
mail were taken as read and approved on motion by H. Umphrey and seconded 
by E. Smith. 


CRITICAL PATH SCHEDULING: A. E. Sargent reported that the architects are 
proceeding with the development of a critical path schedule with respect 
to their work. The architectural segment is just about complete and it is 
expected that the mechanical details will be available in the immediate> 
future. The scheme has three general areas: 

1. <A broad inclusive plan. 
2. Detailed drawings. 
3. The finishing schedule. 


In the discussion, the necessity of establishing mile posts was emphasized 
and a procedure to have weekly examinations needs to be established. 


ARCHITECTS FEES: Further to the action at the March meeting and subsequent 
conversations between Mr, I. R. Tait and Mr. J. K. Ross the architect, the 
formal acceptance of the fee structure was confirmed by the architects as 
follows: 


"We would be pleased to accept Mr. Tait's suggestion that the fee under 
Note #1 of the contract, for air conditioning and special laboratory 
services, now be incorporated in the general fee on the following basis:- 


Basic Fee to be 5.3% of the cost of construction up to a 
cost of $15,000, 000.00. 


Basic Fee to be 5.0% of the cost of construction that is 
in excess of $15,000,000.00." 


YALE ENTERPRISES: Further reference was made to the conversations with the 
representatives of Yale “nterprises Ltd. by Messrs. Tait, Sargent and 
McCully and to the fact that the question of whether or not to use the 
services of this organization still awaits decision. Again it was 
pointed out that many of the advantages which this company had to offer 
were already being realized through the lay workers on the Building 
Committee and the relationship of A. E. Sargent to the undertaking. It 
was also felt that because of the proposed methods of handling sub-contracts 
to effect savings, that the owners could appear in an unsatisfactory role 
particularly in view of the dependancy of the YMCA on the good-will of the 
public for financial support. It was agreed, therefore, that an official 
communication should go forward to the Yale Fnterprises Ltd. declining 
their offer of service, inasmuch as many if not all of the advantages in 
their proposed method of handling the General and sub-contracts were 


- 2 « 
already being realized through existing procedures. 


ARCHITECTS PROPOSAL RE AWARDING CONTRACTS: A suggestion of the architects 
regarding a possible method of awarding the contract for the SGWU building 
was discussed at length. The details of the proposal are filed with these 
minutes and will not be circulated with the next notice of meeting inasmuch 
as copies have already been placed in the hands of Committee members. 


There was lack of unanimity with respect to the acceptance and/or non- 
acceptance of the plan, It was decided, therefore, to defer action until 
the next meeting, on a motion by R. E. Heartz, seconded by E. Smith. At 
that time a preliminary list of prospective contractors is to be available 
for review since such information has direct relevance to the proposal. 


ADJOURNMENT: The meeting adjourned at 2 p.m., on a motion by R. E. Heartz. 


SECRETARY CHAIRMAN 


