MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF 
THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING COMMITTEE 
Friday May 14, 1965 
Room 253-Lhhh Drummond Street, 12:30p.m, 


ATTENDANCE: Mr. I.R.Tait, Chairman, Messrs. F.F.Fulton, A,E,Sargent, 
E.Smith, H.Umphrey, F.G.Hubbard, C.M.McCully, J.A.Hastings, 
R.C.Rae, R.S.Whittingham. 


REGRETS: Messrs. W.E.Adkins, W.D.Robb, G.Shaw, N.Wrightson, R.E.Heartz. 
GRACE: Grace was said by R.S.Whittingham. 


MINUTES: The minutes of the meeting held on March 5, 1965 having 
previously been circulated were taken as read and upon 
motion duly passed were accepted as a correct record of 
that meeting. 


H.F.HALL BUILDING - SALES TAX REFUNDS: 

The method of claiming refunds of Federal Sales 
Tax was reviewed in the light of an estimate of refunds 
available to date calculated both by the detailed method 
and by the formula method. The latter showed considerable 
advantage over the detailed method. It was pointed out 
that if it was decided to use the detailed method the 
services of a tax consultant would be necessary at a fee 
of approximately 10% of the net tax savings. In view 
of this involvement it was felt advisable to employ the 
formula method and upon motion duly made and seconded 
it was 


UNANIMOUSLY RESOLVED THAT 

this committee do hereby recommend the use of the 
formula method presently at ).4% of the total contract 
amount, as the method to be employed for the reclaim 
of Federal Sales Tax. 


It was reported that the 6% Province of Quebec 
Sales Tax was not being refunded to Educational Autho- 
rities at this time, however it was felt that represent- 
ation should be made to Quebec in the hope that some 
alleviation of the Tax burden could be obtained, 


ivagpve 


Minutes cont'd (2) 


ARCHITECT'S FEES: 
An exchange of correspondance had taken place 

between the Architect and the Association concerning 
the payment of fees on that part of the contract rep- 
resented by the 11% Federal Sales Tax, Advice had been 
sought from the Association Solicitors who contended 
that the 11% Federal Sales Tax subsequently to be refun- 
ded by the Federal Government to the Association was not 
a part of "cost of the work" as set out in Article 11 
of the contract with the Architect. This point of view 
was not in accord with the interpretation placed upon 
the contract by the Architect who maintained that in more 
recent contracts specific provision has been made for 
the inclusitn of the 11% Sales Tax as being a part of 
the total contract price. In view of these circumstances 
it was decided to approach Messrs. Ross, Fish, Duschenes 
& Barrett with the suggestion that if the Association 
agree to pay Architect's fees on the 11% Sales Tax, 
would they in turn make a donation of a like amount to 
the University Campaign. It was noted that this suggestion 
does not imply any liability by the Association for the 
payment of Architect's fees on amounts of Federal Sales 
Tax. 


BRANCH RENOVATIONS AND REPAIRS: 

It was reported by Mr. J.A.Hastings that a review 
of the survey of Branch renovations and repairs prepared 
by Mr. L.C.Clark had taken place and that a limited 
number of the more important. considerations from each 
Branch had been extracted from the total requirements, 
The matter was now in the hands of Mr. L.C.Clark who was 
reviewing these items in greater detail in preparation 
for specific action, 


It was also reported that the conversion of West- 
mount, N.D.G., and International coal furnaces to oper- 
ation by oil had been considered separately from the 
other building requirements. Quotations on such conversions 
had recently been obtained from Messrs. Farquhar Robertson 
and Company Limited and were being studied. 


eeeenee 3 


minutes cont'd (3) 


H.F.HALL BUILDING - PROGRESS REPORT: 

A report presented by Mr. A.E.Sargent indicated that 
progress on the new building was generally satisfactory. 
The main considerations are as follows: Pouring of the 
second quarter of the ninth floor was presently taking 
place two weeks ahead of schedule. Curtain Wall - General 
Contractor keeping ahead of the erection of the curtain 
wall by Schokbeton and progress very satisfactory. 
Mechanical- Air-conditioning, plumbing and electrical 
trades having some difficulty in keeping up with the gen- 
eral contractor. It was stated that while erection of 
duct work can be maintained at a fast enough pace, man- 
ufacture of such duct work has fallen behind, and a double 
shift on manufacturing has now been put into effect. 
Installation of electrical work is the area presently of 
most concern, and it was agreed that appropriate contacts 
would be made in order to try and improve this situation. 
It was reported that the main electrical switchboard 
installation is one month behind schedule. In general 
terms however, progress is considered satisfactory. 


H.F.HALL BUILDING - CHANGE ORDERS: 
A statement of change orders approved since the 
last meeting was reviewed along with a summary of the 
total contract position to May 1h, 1965 copies of which 
are filed with these minutes. Upon motion duly made it was 


UNANIMOUSLY RESOLVED THAT 

sguch change orders be and they are hereby ratified 
and accepted as forming a part of the total contract 
position now amounting to $18,991, 709.00. 


It was stated that the total overall credit of change 
orders is currently in the area of $75,000, 


ALTERATIONS TO NORRIS BUILDING: 

A letter received from Messrs. Ross, Fish, Duschenes 
and Barrett proposed a $5,000. limit be placed on costs 
of preliminary studies (drawings, blueprints etc.) for 
changes to the Norris Building. Such costs subsequently 
to be included in the minimum fee of the Architect proposed 
in this letter at 73% of the actual cost of the work. It 
was agreed that this would be a reasonable method for con- 
trol of such preliminary costs. 


The importance of including property south of the 
Norris Building when considering changes and alterations to 
this building was pointed aut, and it was suggested that 
The Montreal Trust should inquire into possibilities of 
property aquisitions in this area. I 


Minutes cont'd (4) 


FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT - LA LOUCHE RESTAURANT 2170 BISHOP STREET: 
A letter from the Montreal Trust Company indicated 
that the insurance underwriters were not prepared to renew 
their policy for coverage of 2170 Bishop Street unless 
automatic fire protection equipment was installed in 
La Louche Restaurant. The Montreal Trust Company had 
brought pressure to bear upon the Restaurant operators 
to install the required fire protection equipment, but 
without success, and they were now requesting our per- 
mission to commence more forcefull legal action against 
the operators. It was agreed that the Montreal Trust 
Company be authorized to suggest to La Louche Restaurant 
that the Association would share equally with them the 
costs of installation of fire protection equipment 
currently estimated at approximately $500. In the event 
that this proved unsuccessful the Montreal Trust Company 
were empowered to use their discretion to obtain a satis- 
factory solution to this problem. 
TERMINATION OF MEETING: 
There being no further business for consideration 
the meeting was declared terminated at 2:10 p.m. 
Those members who could do so were invited to accompany 
Mr. Sargent on a tour of the new building. 


