MINUTES OF THE 
METROPOLITAN BUILDING COMMITTEE 
WEDNESDAY FEBRUARY 20, 1963 
ROOM 253 STANLEY BUILDING 
12 230 PpeMe 


ATTENDANCE: I. R. Tait presiding; Messrs; R. E. Heartz, Mr. A. E. Sargent, 
G. Shaw, H. Umphrye, E. Smith, Dr. 0. M. Solandt, F. G. Hubbard, 
R. C. Rae, R. A. Dickinson. 


GRACE: F. G. Hubbard said grace. 


MINUTES : The minutes of the meeting of July 11, 1962 having been 
circulated by mail were taken as read and approved. 


LAKESHORE BUILDING: The Chairman reported that the keys to the new Lake- 
shore Building had been turned over to the Lakeshore Board 
at the official opening of the building on February 11th. 
A few minor items still remained to be completed but 
on the whole the finished building was extremely sat- 
isfactory to all concerned. 


DRUMMOND/STANLEY BUILDING RENOVATIONS: All conversion projects have 
been completed and are satisfactory. 


SIR GFORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY: The Chairman stated that the main pur- 
pose of the meeting was to discuss and approve the carry- 
ing on of the preparation of the working drawings for 
the new University Building. It was reported that the 
requested building By-Law change would be approved by 
the City Council at their March meeting. In view of 
this it was imperative that work commence immediately 
on the working drawings if the building is to be ready 
for occupancy in the fall of 1966. The following ex- 
cerpt from the minutes of the Metropolitan Board of 
Directors meeting of Monday Februarv 18, 1963 was tabled. 


"On recommendation of the Executive Committee, the Buil- 
ding Committee was asked to review the plans of the 
proposed (Sir George Williams University) building and 
to authorize the architects to take immediate steps to 
prepare working drawing and specifications." 


The meeting was then turned over to Mr. A. E. Sargent 
who, with the aid of the building model and sketch plans 
of each floor, gave a complete review of the building 
contents and design. In conjunction with the presenta- 
tion a statement of the floor area alloted to each un- 
iversity department and service, both in the present 
and new building was presented. This statement is att- 
ached to and forms part of these minutes. The building 
is designed to provide laberatory space for 5,000 
day students and class room space for l,000 students. 
The class room area provided it the equivalent of 1 1/3 
seats per student. 


=D 


The following proposed construction schedule was sub- 
mitted 


Preparation of working drawings Feb. 15/63 - 
Nov, 63 

Preparation of contractors 

estimates and bids 6 weeks to bid 
dead-line Dec.31/63 

Commencement of demolition Jan. 1/64 

Letting of contract Jan.15/64 

Start of Construction Feb. 1/6 - 26 months 
to March 31, 1966. 

Furnishings and equipment tune--up 3 months 

Staff Adjustment 2 months 

Occupation by students Sept.1, 1966 


It was pointed out that one of the key factors affect- 
ing the ability to meet this rigid construction sch- 
edule was the ability of the architects to complete the 
working drawing in the time alloted. Dr. 0. M. Solandt 
suggested that a close liaison be established with the 
architects and an effort be made to have them institute 
a "Critical Path Scheduling" concept into their oper- 
ations. To assist the implimentation of this concept 
he offered to make available from his staff an engineer 
who was an expert in this field. It was also suggested 
that the possibility of sub-contracting the excavation 
and foundation work be looked into. If this were done 
it would be possible to start on this phase in October 
of 1963. The Committee recommended this be followed ur 


The question was raised as to how final were the lay 
out plans, It was felt that in view of the very tight 
scheduling, any major changes in lay out made during 
the course of construction wuld make it extremely 
difficult to meet the required completion date, Mr. 
Sargent reported that the plans had been gone into 
very thoroughly by all the University personnel con~ 
cerned, and that the onl:* major revisions which show? ' 
occur would be those caused by lack of necessary funds 
to complete the project as origin wiv designed. The 
Committee agreed that Mr. Sargent should be given the 
power to refuse lay out changes during the course of 
the construction. It was also agreed should any major 
changes be deemed necessary that they must have the 
approval of the Building Committee. 


The Committee then discussed the validity of the state- 
ment of costs of the project. This statement is att- 
ached to and forms part of these minutes. The total 
building cost of “~4,635,000 is made up as follows: 


Building 10, 78,,400,. 
Equipment and Air Conditioning 3,150,000, 
Electrical 1,800,000, 
Escalators and Elevators 900,000. 


In preparing these estimates the contractors had sketch 
plans and the detail of the finishes for the building. 
The estimate for the mechanical equipment was made on 
the basis of the actual lay out and sizing of all the 
equipments. It was pointed out that the original es- 
timated cost of the building of $15,150,000 contained 
contingencies of $500,000. This revised estimate of 
$16,635,000 has any contingencies built in. As it is 
considerably higher than the original estimate it was 
felt that it was quite a valid one. 


The Committee also agreed that in order to assist in 
their future discussion on this project, they should be 
provided with a statement giving details of floor lay 
out, costs, area statistics and other pertinent build- 
ing details. 


On a motion by Mr. R. E. Heartz, the Committee unanimously 

approved an initial expenditure of $40,000 to have the 

building architects start work on the working drawings 

of the new University building, with the proviso that 

(a) the architects be asked to introduce "Critical Path 
Scheduling" concepts into their operation, and 

(b) the lay out plans be frozen as they are now consti- 
tuted. 


There being no further business the meeting adjourned 
at 2:30 p.m. 


Secretary Chairman 


