ATTENDANCE: 


Pa 4 
MINUTES OF THE MEETING (© 
OF THE yy 
METROPOLITAN BUILDING COMMITTEE vf oo 
MONDAY OCTOBER 21, 1963 ly LW 
CONFERENCE ROOM, 141 DRUMMOND STREET 


12:30 P.M. 


Mr. I. R. Tait, presiding; W. C. Robb, A. E. Sargent, 
G. Shaw, W. E. Atkins, F. F. Fulton, N. Wrightson, 
R. C. Rae, F. G. Hubbard, C. M.McCully, R. A. Dickinson, 


The blessing was asked by C. M. McCully. 
The minutes of the meeting of August 6th, having been 


previously circulated by mail, were taken as read and 
appr oved. ’ 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY - NEW BUILDING 


STATUS OF SITE ACQUISITION: It was reported that details of the 


purchase of the strip of land owned by the City was in 
the hands of the City's Notary and the appropriate Deed 
of Sale would be drawn up for the Association's appro- 
val and signature on October 22, 1963. The sale price 
of $3)-200,00 was the equivalent of the original pur- 
chase price said to have been paid by the City. 


The Association's petition for acquisition of the lane 
was to be heard by the Superior Court on October 28th, 
Following decision by the Court it would take approxi~ 
mately one more week for the matter to be processed 
through the office of the Provincial Curator. The sum 
of $9,200 had been advanced to the City of Montreal re-~ 
presenting the estimated costs of relocating services 
in the lane, 


In the mtter of leases held by occupants of buildings 
on the site, the following was reported; 


The Montreal Trust had been authorized to obtain 
release from the lease held by the tenant of 2105 Mackay 
Street in return for a settlement of $5,000, This lease 
expires April 30, 196). 


A meeting had been arranged between the lease holder 
of 2083 Mackay and his colicitors, and the Montreal 
Trust Co, and the Association's solicitors with a view 
to an arrangement satisfactory to both parties. This 
lease expires October 31, 1964 with an option and pen- 
alty payment clause of $1,500. 


— 2 


Four tenants still held leases in 2110 Bishop Street 
until April 30, 196, While the Trust Co. were optimis- 
tic in regards cancelling these, indications are that 
some difficulties might be experienced before settle- 
ment was achieved. 


It was reported that the survey of the building site 
was in the hands of C. C. Lindsay, Quebec Land Surveyor, 
and would be completed within the week. 


DEMOLITION CONTRACT: It was reported that tenders for the demoli- 
tion of buildings on the site had been requested of 
Beaver Demolition Co. and LaJeunese Demolition. The 
latter had agreed to tender but declined at the last 
minute due to the sale of their business facilities. 
As a result the only tender on hand was that of Beaver 
Demolition Co. at a price of $32,430. The original 
estimate of demolition costs was $50,000. On motion 
of Mr. F. Fulton, the Committee accepted Beaver Demo- 
lition's bid. 


BUILDING CONTRACT: The Standard Form of Construction Contract and 
e Proposed General Conditions of Contract had pre- 
viously been circulated to the Committee for their re- 
view. It was reported that significant comments and 
suggestions had been mde in writing by Mr. Wrightson 
and that these would be considered in a redraft of the 
General Conditions, 


Four main areas were discussed at the meeting: 


1) Temporary Heating: It was agreed that this clause 
should be spelled out specifically with a view to satis-~ 
fy the best interests of owner and contractor. 


2) Prior Occupancy By Owner: It was agreed that 
this clause be worded so as to avoid the possibility 
of excess costs being incurred by either owner or contractor, 


3) Guarantee Bond: It was agreed that the General 
Conditions state that the owner reserves the right to 
demand a guarantee of performance bond of 50% of the 
contract price, premium to be paid by the owner. Con- 
tractor to submit with his tender a letter from a Bond- 
ing Co. stating their willingness to supply such a bond. 


h) Bid Bond: It was agreed that a bid bond of 
$1,500,000 be supplied by all tenderers. 


DISCUSSIONS 


COACH HOUSE: 


a Dm 


The list of contractors to be asked to tender was re=- 
viewed. The name of Perini (Quebec) Ltd. was mentioned 
as a possible addition. The Committee decided that the 
reasons for the original choice of contractors were still 
valid and no changes should be made to this list. 


The list of sub-contractors to be included in the instruc- 
tions to tenderers was reviewed and approved with the 
removal of Moulton & Co. from the Plumbing and Heating 
list, G. M. Gest & Co. from the Electrical and the add- 
ition of the Hall Co. to elevators and escala ors. 


WITH FINANCIAL AUTHQRITIES: It was reported that at a 
recent discussion he tween the Principal and Finan- 
cial Secretary and representatives of the Quebec Govern- 
ment, it was pointed out that under present conditions 

we would be unable to spend all the funds alloted to 

the project under Bill 61. Quebec had advised that some 
arrangements might be worked out by means of a sub-con- 
tract for steel work, enabling a draw-down of Provincial 
Grants prior to March 31. This matter was being followed 
up. The Committee reviewed the list of possible contract- 
ors for the steel work and it was agreed that the firm 
Standard Structural Steel be explored further with the 
architects, 


A review of draw-down procedures for Government Grants, 

as confirmed by discussions held in Quebec, was presented. 
Details are attached to and form part of these minutes. 
The question was raised whether we would in effect have 
sufficient time to draw funds from the Government be=- ~ 
fore the contractor would have to be paid. It was agreed 
that this matter would have to be worked out more com=- 
pletely. 


A letter was tabled from Mrs. Nina B. Raginsky request- 
ing consideration be given to preserving the Coach House 
at 2060 Bishop Street. It was agreed that Mrs. Raginsky 
be informed of the Committee's regrets that this would 
not appear to be feasible under the circumstances. 


CORNER STONE: The question of a corner stone and related ceremonies 


was raised by Principal Rae. It is reported that this 
had been provided for by the architects in the contract 
and that definite action could be taken at a later date. 
It was suggested that this matter be referred to the 
University's Board of Governors, 


ole 


INTERNATIONAL BRANCH ~ BRICK WORK: It was reported that it had been 
necessary to undertake considerable repair work to the 
brick-work of International Branch as a bad state of 
deterioration had been discovered, Total cost would 
be approximately $5,500. The Chairman remrked that 
this pointed up the necessity for periodic review of 
the condition of all Branch properties by qualified 
perconnel, in order to e::cure preventative m-intenance. 
It was agreed that this mtter should be taken in hand. 


ADJOURNMENT : ert being no further business the meeting adjourned 
at 2:40 P.M, 


SECRETARY CHAIRMAN 


