MINUTES OF THE MEETING 
OF THE 
METROPOLITAN BUILDING COMMITTEE 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 31, 1964 
BOARD ROOM, 1441 DRUMMOND STREET 
12:30 P.M. 


ATTENDANCE: 


GRACE: 


MINUTES: 


Messrs. I. R. Tait, presiding; R. E. Heartz, 

W. D. Robb, N. Wrightson, A. E. Sargént, W. E. Atkins, 
F. F. Pulton, H. Umphrey, G. E. Shaw, R. C. Rae, 

F. G. Hubbard, j. O'Brien, R. A. Dickinson. 


The blessing was asked by F. G. Hubbard. 
The minutes of the meeting of October 21, 1963, 


having previously been circulated, were taken as 
read and approved. 


NEW UNIVERSITY BUILDING - TENDERS: 


The Chairman reported that he had officiated at 
the opening of tenders for the construction of the 
new University building at 2:00 P.M. on Thursday, 
January 23rd. In attendance at the opening were 
representatives from the Ministry of Youth of the 
Province of Quebec, the Architects, Engineers, and 
the various contractors concerned. 


A summary of the tenders submitted was presented 
to the meeting for consideration. This summary is 
attached to and forms part of these minutes. 


It was pointed out that the gross tender figure 
shown for all contractors should be increased by 
$97,000. This was due to the fact that all con- 
tractors had included in their tenders a sub-con- 
tract for the Applied Insulation Co. which was not 
acceptable to our consulting engineers. 


It was noted that the tender of McNarmara Quebec 
Ltd. had been disqualified as it had been received 
after the bid deadline of 12:00 noon. The tender 
of E.G.M. Cape Ltd., although the lowest at 
$19,750,000. had also been disqualified because 
the tendering documents had not been properly com- 
pleted. The basis of their disqualification is 
contained in Article 19 of the"By-Laws concerning 
subsidies for purpose of construction" of the 
Province of Quebec. The rejection of the Cape 
tender was confirmed by the representativesof the 
Quebec Government who were in attendance at the 
opening. 


oD ws 


Perini Quebec Ltd., at a price of $19,793,000., 

was therefore considered as the low bidder on the 
project. On this basis the cost of the building 

was some $2,500,000 greater than the amount budgeted. 
As there was no possibility of additional financing 
being made available for the project, it was there- 
fore necessary to undertake a complete review of 

the project in order to ascertain where savings 

could be made to bring the cost into line with 

the funds available. 


This review was presently underway in conjunction 

with the Architects. Assuming that the necessary 

savings could be achieved without a major redesign 
of the building, it was intended that new bids be 

called for on the revised basis. 


The Committee entered into considerable discussion 
on all aspects of the tenders. Particular refer- 
ence was made as to which contractors should be con- 
sidered eligable for re-bids. It was the consensus 
of opinion that the lowest three tenderers should 

be asked for revised quotations. The question of 
the eligability of E.G.M. Cape Co. would require 
further clarification from Quebec. 


The Committee agreed that no decisions could be 
made until a complete review of the situation 
could be completed by the Architects. It was 
therefore decided to call a tentative meeting of 
the Committee for Friday, February 7th at which 
time it was hoped sufficient information would be 
available to enable the rendering of a decision, 


There being no further business the meeting was 
adjourned. 


SECRETARY CHATRMAN 


