MINUTES OF MEETING OF 
THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING COMMITTEE 
Held on Tuesday, August 6, 1963 


at 12:30 p.m. in the Board Room 


ATTENDANCE: I.R. Tait, presiding; A.E. Sargent, H. Umphrey, “ric Smith, 
F.F. Fulton, F.G. Hubbard, R.A. Dickinson, C.M. McCully 


By Special Invitation: H.R. Crabtree, W.M. Hall, C.W. Webster, 
John Ross (Architect). 


GRACE: F.G. Hubbard said grace. 


MINUTES : The minutes of the meeting of June 19th having been circulated 
by mail were taken as read and approved. 


CONTRACT FOR SR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY BUILDING PROJECT: The basic 
purpose of the meeting was to decide whether or not a fixed fee 
contract was to be used in relation to the university building. 
Proposal forms related to this method were circulated in advance 
to all members of the Committee and others in attendance in accord~ 
ance with the action taken at a previous meeting. The advantages 
and disadvantages of this type of contract as they have emerged in 
Committee discussions and have been expressed, both orally and in 
writing, by others present were tabled and appear on file in these 
minutes. 


At the same time a communication was sent to the Provincial 
Government to determine their reaction relating to the proposed 
method. A few minutes before the meeting a verbal communication 
was received from the government as follows: "Mr. Farrell of 
Quebec called and says that Mr. Martin has refused permission to 
select a contractor on a fixed fee basis. We must go out for 
lump sum tenders. We can call for tenders from a restricted list 
of bidders by seeking permission to do so. We need not submit the 
proposed bidders." 


Discussion then came to a focus on the earlier plan to deal with 
the contract in segments, viz. excavation, foundations and structural 
steel to become the first unit with the other part of the project to 
follow at a later date. It was pointed out that the details for 
implementing this proposal would be ready on schedule. Mr. Ross 
suggested that there might be some difficulties in getting a list of 
contractors willing to submit lump sum tenders on a project of this 
dimension and the possibility of locating French contractors to 
tender was even more remote. After considerable discussion it was 
agreed that Damien & Boileau, Quemont Co., and Janin and Co. be 
invited to tender on the first segment of the contract along with 
the list of general contractors already approved with the addition 
of Anglin Norcross Ltd., and the elimination of Piggott Construction 
Co. 


UNDERPINNING THE DRUMMOND STREET BUILDING: It was reported that the under- 
pinning of the Drummond Street building is proceeding according to 
schedule. The major difficulty in the undertaking is to maintain 
sequences of preparation, underpinning, and restoration of facilities 
and at the same time provide service to the membership. In order to 
maintain one shower room in operation continuously there will be a 
lapse of 11 days in the actual underpinning between phases 3 and 


of the project. In view of this cessation of work by the Parco Co. 

and its attendant penalty clause of $1650. and the condition of the 

piles revealed in the work so far, it became apparent that considera~ 
tion should be given to underpinning an additional 6 columns at this 
time. Further reasons which prompted this consideration are: 

1) while the settlement is not serious in these 6 columns there is 
no assurance that the condition may not become acute in the not 
too distant future. (Subsequent investigation has validated 
this assumption). 

2) the preparations which have .already been made and the attendant 
program inconveniences suggest the desirability of dealing with 
the problem now. 

3) the lapse of time in the actual underpinning on the present basis 
could be used to advantage and eliminate the penalty fee. 

lh) the entire project will not take any longer because the different 
segments can be coordinated to better advantage. 

5) practically all of the future underpinning if, as, and when it 
becomes necessary can be undertaken by working from the outside 
and thereby not occasion program inconveniences. 


The additional cost of underpinning these 6 columns is $19,750. 
If it is decided to delay action until some future time the total 
cost, based on prevailing estimates, would be $26,900. 


It was agreed on motion by Eric Smith and seconded by W.N. Hall 
that the work should be undertaken. 


ADJOURNMENT : The meeting adjourned at 2 p.m. 


SECRITARY CHA TRMAN 


