MINUTES OF THE MEETING 
OF THE 
METROPOLITAN BUILDING COMMITTEE 
THURSDAY, APRIL 23, 1964 
ROOM 253, 141 DRUMMOND STREET 
12:30 pem. 


ATTENDANCE: Mr. I. R. Tait, presiding, Messrs; W. E. Adkins, A. E. Sargent, 
G. E. Shaw, H. Umphrey, N. Wrightson, E. Smith, F. G. Hubbard, 
C. M. McCully, and R. A. Dickinson. 


GRACE: Grace was said by F. G. Hubbard. 

MINUTES: The minutes of the meetings of January 31st and February 27th, 
196 having previously been circulated were taken as read and 
approved. 


HENRY F. HALL BUILDING: It was reparted that construction work on the new 
building was proceeding quite satisfactorily. 28,700 cubic yds 
of earth had been excavated to date and rock drilling was well 
underway. It was estimated that 12,000 cubic yds. of rock would 
have to be removed. 


The contractors were preparing their critical path schedule 
for the project and this would be watched closely by the Archi- 
tects! representatives. 


The formal construction contract was not as yet signed, but 
the final addendum had been received on April 23rd and it was 
expected the contract would be signed shortly. 


The contract for kitchen equipment had not as yet been included 
in the overall construction contract, Star Stainless Co. had 
submitted the lowest tender on kitchen equipment. However, 
there was some doubt as to their ability to fulfil this con- 
tract to everyones entire satisfaction, and consideration 
might be given to rejecting the lowest tender in favour of the 
next lowest. To do so, it would be necessary to obtain the 
permission of the Minister of Youth. The University was curr- 
ently discussing this matter with representatives of the Pro- 
vincial Government. 


The Committee reviewed the furnishings and equipment budget 

as included in the total project financing to date. This total 
budget amounted to $1,781,858.00, the bulk of which was in 
laboratory furniture and equipment. The present schedule called 
for the placing of tenders for this equipment in September. 

The Companys most likely to submit bids are Central Scientific 
Co., Valley City Company and Art Woodwork Ltd. It was agreed 
that the control of these bids should be in the hands of the 
Building Committee and that the bidding schedule should be so 
arranged as to allow the Committee two weeks to review the 
tenders. Central Scientific Co. were doing all design work on 


-~2-/ 


laboratory furnishings. It was pointed out that Central Scien- 
tific Co., if requested, would undertake to supervise all in- 
stallations of laboratory equipment, whether or not they are 

the successful bidders. Their fee for supervising the contracts 
of the others would be %. 


Mr. N. Wrightson raised the question of lockers for the new buil- 
ding. He stated that the Protestant School Board had had con- 
siderable experience in this area and had developed their own 
locker designs. He offered any advise and help that the School 
Board might be able to give. 


It was reported that the question of a Performance Bond on 

this Contract was still under diseussion, Attempts were be- 
ing made to have the U. S, Parent Co. of Perini Ltd. guarantee 
the contract to the extent of their loan to, and interest in, 
the Canadian Co. There was considerable doubt that they would 
do this as the U. S. Co. is a publie company. After discussion 
on the subject the Committee agreed that the best course of 
action would be to take out a performance bond, and recommended 
that such bond should be 50% of the construction contract. 


Mr. A. E. Sargent, reviewed the procedures laid down to cover 
the processing and approval of contract change orders. The 
Committee approved these procedures, and agreed that the Chair- 
man should be authorized to approve all change orders up to 
$10,000.00. Changes of a larger mgnitude should have the 
approval of the Building Committee. 


EXTENTION TO BURSARS AD REGISTRARS OFFICES: The University had submitted a 
proposal for the construction of a one storey addition over 
the light court, adjacent to the university building, on 
Stanley Street. Such addition would provide approximately 
2,000 square ft. of much needed office space for the Registrar's 
and Bursar's Departments. The plans called for the installa- 
tion of sky-lights in the roof of the addition and the total 
cost of the project was estimated to be $50,000.00, The Build- 
ing Committee agreed that this project should be proceeded with, 
with the exception that cost savings should be effected by 
the elimination of sky lights. 


RENOVATIONS AND REPAIRS: The Committee reviewed an extensive list of por- 
jeeted repairs, renovations, and property imporvements as 
submitted by all Branches of the Association. The Committee 
agreed that until such time as a comprehensive review of all 
such projects could be undertaken, only those repairs deemed 
absolutely neccessary should be proceeded with. 


—e 


RESIDENCE 12th FLOOR RENOVATIONS: It was reported that the restoration of 
the 12th floor in the residence had been satisfactorily com- 
pleted. The members of the Committee were invited to inspect 
the 12th floor following this meeting. 


ADJOURNMENT: There being no further business the meeting adjourned at 2:20 p.m, 


SECRETARY CHA IRMAN 


