ATTENDANCE : 


MINUTES OF THE MEETING Fa 


OF THE 4 
METROPOLITAN BUILDING COMMITTEE 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 196) 
ROOM 257, 141 DRUMMOND STREET 
5:00 P.M, 


Mr.I. R. Tait, presiding; Messrs F. F. Fulton, H. Umphrey, 
A. E. Sargent, G. E. Shaw, R. C. Rae, F. G. Hubbard, 
C. M. McCully, R. A. Dickinson. 


NEW UNIVERSITY BUILDING - TENDERS: The Chairman reviewed briefly the 


SECRETARY 


steps that had been taken regarding the contrect for the 
new building since the last meeting of the Committee. 


The original tenders of January 23rd having been too high, 
a complete review of the project had been undertaken, in 
conjunction with the University and Architects, to deter- 
mine where substantial savings could be made. A sizeable 
list of changes, deletions and substitutions was compiled 
and it was decided to ask for re-bids on the project on 
the basis of the revisions made. On the advice of the 
Quebec Government, all of the original contractors were 
asked to re-tender. Structural steel and kitchen equip- 
ment were to be excluded from the new bids as they would 
be negotiated separately. 


The new tenders were opened at the Architects! Offices at 
2:p.m. February 27th. Five of the original 8 contractors 


chose to re-bid. Perini Quebec Ltd., at $14,987,000 proved 


to be the low bidder. A summary of the tenders is incor- 
porated with these minutes. Based on the Perini tender, 
the building would cost $22.1) per square foot or $1.18 
per cubic foot. This compared favourably with other re- 
cent university construction. 


The Committee reviewed the summary of tenders submitted 
and the revisions made to the original specifications. 
The relationship of the revised tender price to the total 
financing of the project was also examined. 


On a motion by Mr. H. Umphrey, seconded by Mr. G. Shaw, 
the Committee unanimously agreed to recommend to the 
Metropolitan Board of Directors that Perini Quebec Ltd, 
with a bid of $1,987,000, be awarded the contract for 
the construction of the building. 


The meeting adjourned at 5:45 P.M, 


CHATRMAN 


