MINUTES OF THE MEETING 
OF THE 
METROPOLITAN BUILDING COMMITTEE 
Friday March 5th, 1965 
Room 253, 141 Drummond St. 
12.30 P-. 


ATTENDANCE: Mr. I.R.Tait, Chairman, Messrs. F.F.Fulton, W.D.Robb, 
A.E.Sargent, G.Shaw, =.Smith, H.Umphrey, N.Wrightson, 
F.G.Hubbard, C.M.McCully, R.C.Rae, R.S.Whittingham. 


Regrets:Messrs. W.E.Adkins, R.E.Heartz. 
GRACE: F.G.Hubbard said grace, 


MINUTES: The minutes of the meeting held on January 15, 1965 
having previously been circulated were taken as read and 
upon motion duly passed were accepted as a correct record 
of that meeting. 


H.F.HALL BUILDING- 

PROGRESS REPORT Upon the request of the Chair, A.—.Sargent reported 
on the present status of the H.F.Hall Building which was 
stated to be slightly ahead of schedule. Fourth floor 
concrete work was presently being vovred. Regular job 
meetingswere being well attended and good co-ordination 
of all construction work was being maintained. 


Discussion of floor coverings revealed a tendency to use 

p Rastic floorings on a number of local projects, and where 
practical similar floorings were being used on the H.F.Hall 
Building in place of terrazzo. 


In general all progress was satisfactory with no critical 
path scheduling being necessary at the present time. 


FEDERAL SALES TAX REFUNDS 
Considerable discussion ensued concerning the most 
advantageous method to be used for processing a Federal 
Sales Tax refund claim. 


A formula method of claiming a stated vercentage of the 
total contract price (1.2% June 1), 1963 to March 31, 196) - 
2.4% April 1, 196 to December 31, 196) and ).l% January 1, 
1965 to date) was compared to the detailed method by which 
individual invoices for taxable material are submitted to 
the Government in support of a tax refund of %, 8% or 11% 
depending on the period involved. 

It was suggested that a 1% to 13% advantage could 
result from the use of the detailed method, however, 
enquiries concerning the present McGill University project 
revealed that they were in favour of the formula method. 


jouw’ 


MINUTES cont'd (2) 


It was stated that use of the detailed method inva riably 
involved contentious issues between the Government and the 
claimant as to what constituted taxable and non taxable 
materials, and negotiations in this regard were often 
tedious and protracted, with a resulting increase in 
expense to the claimant. 

It was pointed out that under the terms of the building 
contract the general contractor was required to submit 
details of materials subject to Sales Tax, and that in the 
case of the Provincial Government the present policy of Quebec was 
to deal only with the general contractor. 

In order to be in a better position to assess which 
method should be used for the H.F.Hall Building, Mr.A.E. 
Sargent agreed to approach the general contractor with the 
suggestion that if it was decided to use the formula method, 
and by so doing the contractor would be relieved of his 
contractual requirement to provide details of materials 
subject to Sales Tax, would the general contractor be 
agreeable to ani equal division between himself and the 
owners of the costs normally incidental to the provision 
of such detailed sales tax information. 


ARCHITECES FEES 


The point was raised concerning the base upon which the 
architects fees are assessable in that the present contract 
price includes an amount for Sales Tax which will eventually 
be refunded by the Government, the architect maintains that 
his fees are assessable on total contract price thich at the 
present time includes 11% Sales Tax, and he has been 
following this practice in his monthly billings. 

Indirectly relevant to this question is the request 
by the consulting engineers employed by the architects to 
further consider their fee structure as agreed between the 
architects and the engineers in the light of additional 
engineering services required for laboratory layout and . 
air conditioning work not previously forseen by the architect.) (fru 
The chairman stated that a direct approach had been made by 
the engineers to him on this matter but that he had pointed 
out that our contract was with the architects and that the 
engineers should negotiate this matter directly with the 
architects. — 

It was stated that a* this time no reason could be seen 
for any change to be made to the architects fee structure 
beyond what had previously been agreed, namely 5.3% up to a 
contract value of $15,000,000. and 5% for any amount in 
excess of $15,000,000. 

The secretary was requested to submit to the Association 
legal counsel a copy of the contract with the architect and 
request an interpretation of Article TI of the contract, in 
particular as such article applies to Liabilit, for payment 
of architects fees on that portion of the cost of the work 
represented by refundable Sales Tax. 


teased 


MINUTES cont'd (3) 
MANAGER PREMISES DIVISION 


It was reported that Mr. G.Baird had commenced his 
employment as of February 15, 1965, and was presently — 
familiarizing himself with central building operations. 

In connection with the H.F.Hall Building, Mr.Baird 
had suggested that we hire our oum_heat ing staff as 
required during construction with the objective of building 
up a good background and historical knowledge of start up 
problems and maintaining continuity of staff. Subsequently 
some financial reimbursement could be arranged with the 
contractors for providing this service. This suggestion 
was to be further considered. 


BRANCH RENOVATIONS & REPAIRS 


A summary of repairs and renovations to branch buildings 
as taken from a survey prepared by Mr.L.C.Clark, was 
placed before the meeting - copy attached to these minutes. 

Mr. F.Fulton made particular mention of item three - 
Ladies Toilet 2nd Floor - of the N.D.G.listing.and stated 
that he had been asked to bring this to the special attention 
of the Committee. It was pointed out that there was 1M 
record a list of repair priorities relevant to N.D.G. Branch 
as made by the Board of that branch. 

Due to the extent of the listing and the considerable 
expenditure involved in carrying out the repairs and 
renovations as suggested, it was agreed that Messrs. I,Tait 
and A.E.Sargent would give detailed consideration to the 
proposed: repairs with ¢ view .to establishing priorities 
within the framework of total Association requirements. 

H.F.HALL BUILDING - CHANGE ORDERS 


A statement of change orders approved since the last 
meeting was reviewed along with a summary of the total 
contract position to March 3, 1965, copies of which are 
filed with these minutes. 
Upon motion duly made it was unanimously resolved thah such 
change orders be and they are hereby ratified and accepted 
as forming a part of the total contract position now 
amounting to $18,989,515. 


UNIVERSITY BOOKSTORE 


Brief mention was made of the relocation of the University 
Bookstore from that shown on the original plans. 

Full consideration at this time had not been made by 
the University of a suitable alternative location for the 
bookstore, and it was left with Mr. A.E.Sargent to make a 
detailed survey of presently available alternative facilities 
and to submit recommendations resulting from his survey. 


TERMINATION OF 
MEETING There being no further business for consideration, 
the meeting was declared terminated at 2:25 p.m. 


ae inn eae 
Secretary Chairmn 


