Metropolitan Offices 
1441 Drummond Street 
Telephone 849-5331 


Montreal Communiqué 


For release at will. 

Special to: Montreal Gazette 
and Suburban Weeklies. 
Approximately 300 words. 
Tuesday, May 13, 1969. 


YMCA'S KAMP KANAWANA 
SET FOR RECORD SUMMER 
There's nothing stodgy about the Montreal YMCA's Kamp Kanawana. 
It's status as Canada's longest established summer camp might inhibit 


some administrators, but not the personnel in charge of this operation. 


In 1968 it was girls and horses. In response to enthusiastic 


requests from parents, capacity of the co-ed sections is being doubled. 


This summer Kanawana is introducing a special French-language 
program for English-speaking boys. Next year--well, the Y's Camping 


Commission is looking ahead. 


"Good things don't just happen at camp--they're made to happen. 
That's why the far-sighted youth workers who plan programs also participate 
in the training of staff who work with youngsters," observes Geoff Anderson, 


Director of Kanawana. 


Despite the way it has evolved and grown since 189, Kanawana's 
main emphases remain on fun, the encouragement of initiative and self- 


Om 


development, physical fitness, sports, aquatics and the preparation of 


youngsters for adolescence and the post-teenage years. 


In addition to section directors, supervisors, a diversified 
team of activity specialists, a resident doctor and nurse, and a dietician-- 
Kanawana's staff includes one counsellor for every seven campers. Every 


youngster gets the attention he needs. 


"Tt's not all go, go, go. There are chances to read quietly, 
start hobby shop projects or observe the moon through a telescope. What- 
ever a child's interests, we'll have someone experienced to help him or 


her enjoy it," says Mr. Anderson. 


Participants in Kanawana's new French section will be quartered 
in a converted farm building which adjoins the main property. There will 
be one French-speaking counsellor for every five boys, all supervised by a 


special director and a language co-ordinator. 


"Instead of classrooms and school-type texts, leaders of this 
forward-looking program will use Kanawana's wide range of vacation-time 


facilities to motivate their charges to learn while playing." 


Part of each day will, however, be reserved for study, but also 


in an atmosphere of relaxed informality, 


ann 


Mr. Anderson emphasizes that though Kanawana is located just 
50 miles from Montreal, near St. Sauveur, it covers more than 1,000 acres 


of playing fields, woodlands and lakes. 


Its range of activities includes: horseback riding; swimming; 
canoeing; rowing; sailing; arts & crafts; skin diving; naturelore; 


archery; riflery; hiking; sports instruction. 


"Pre-registration to date indicates this will be our biggest 
summer ever," says Mr. Anderson. 


asin Ome 


Fer further information please contact: Bill Sher or Allan Greevy 
849-5331 , 


