Metropolitan Offices 
1441 Drummond Street 
Telephone 849-5331 


Young Men’s Christian Association of Montreal 


FOR RELEASE 
MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 1969 
AFTER 12:45 p.m, 


YMCA FLAG RAISED AT PVM 


Some of the ways the Montreal YMCA positively influences 
the bives of people--especially youth--were outlined Monday by 
W.N. Hall, President of the Assoclation, at spectal observances to 
help mark National YMCA Week. 

As the YMCA flag was raised over the Plare at Place Ville 
Marie, he estimated that more than 4,000,000 people from all over 
North America would be participating in similar ceremonies during the 
week ending January 26, 1969. 

He observed, however, that, because the first YMCA in 
North America was founded In Montreal, I17' years ago, National YMCA 
Week has special significance here. 

In tracing the Y's history, he noted that, almost from 
the outset, its members went outside to acquire first-hand Insight 
into human problems. They quickly learned that strong Idealism, 
warm concern and a sincere desire to help were not by themselves 
sufficient. 

As the movement evolved and matured, Its range of concerns 
spread to encompass the social and physical needs of people. 


"The characterlIstics which are Its greatest strength 


«De 


today began to emerge. Perhaps the most significant of these is the 
ability to remain relevant. For well over a centuFfy, this has 
enabled the YMCA to keep in step with the times by identifying cor- 
temporary problems and participating on a front-line basis in the 
development of answers." 

Continuing education courses came later. They started by 
the Y offering night courses to enable people who had been deprived 
of schooling to take public and high school education at night. Now, 
they stress self development and the expansion of the Individual's 
capacity, whether It is capactty for pleasure or capaelty to adjust 
to social and technological change. 

"Today, in Greater Montreal, the principal YMCA emphases 
are on character development and leadership training, on preparation 
of pre-teens for adolescence and teenagers for maturity, on the 
search for ways to bridge the generation gap and, on the search for 
solutions to contemporary social and community problems." 

"New ways are being sought to help clarify and strengthen 
family relationships. More programs are being developed to foster 


communication and co-operation between Quebec's two main language 


groups." 

"At the same time, thousands of youngsters are each year 
provided with experiences that will enjoyably promote all-round 
development and become treasured memories in later years."--30-- 
For further information please contact: Bill Sher 


849-533] Loc. 738 


January 16, 1969. 


