Metropolitan Offices 
1441 Drummond Street 


eee Telephone 849-5331 
Montréal Communiqué 


Thursday, November 26, 1970 


TOP MONTREAL YMCA STAFF POST: Effective December Ist, D. Ross 
Bannerman takes over as General Secretary and Chief Executive 
Officer of the YMCAs of Greater Montreal. 


His predecessor, Rix G. Rogers, will serve as Assistant to the 
President in Montreal until April 1, 1971, when he becomes 
General Secretary of the National Council of Canadian YMCAs. 


Operating with an annual budget of some $3,000,000, Bannerman 
will share major responsibility for setting policy in Montreal, 


He will also oversee city-wide activities which involve over 
55,000 people and a staff which, including part-time help, 
totals over 800. 


CLOSER TIES IN THE OFFING? Maybe it's nothing 

more than a flirtation, but the YMCA and YWCA 

are jointly discussing areas of greater co-operation 
in Montreal. 


TOGETHERNESS AT VANIER COLLEGE: Members of the Vanier College 
faculty and administrative staff have joined with students in 
a YMCA-conceived fitness program. 


Participants were first put through a series of YMCA tests which 
evaluated physical condition and provided an accurate basis for 
charting progress. 


The tests used finely-calibrated equipment to check muscular 
strength, power and endurance, efficiency of the cardiovascular 
system (heart and blood vessels), flexibility and fat content 
at key points of the body. 


Conditioning sessions are now being run twice a week, on campus, 
by members of the Y's phys ed staff. A series of re-tests will 
be scheduled in 17-18 weeks to assess the improvement of those 
involved. 


ATTRACTING YOUNGSTERS: Saturday participation in youth programs 
of the Northwestern (N.D.G.) YMCA is currently about four times 
greater than last year. The branch has developed a Go-go schedule 
of activities and the kids are really becoming involved. 


ee e-Mmore 


wie Das 


LEGAL AID CLINIC: A free legal aid clinic is now being operated 
out of the International YMCA. Its principal resources are Miss 
Barbara Katadotis, a Y community developer, and Evangelos Hadjis, 
a young lawyer. 


The clinic was started mainly to serve the many Greek immigrants 
residing in the area served by International, 


Mr. Hadjis, who was born in Greece, has first-hand knowledge 
of many of the problems facing newcomers to this country. Miss 
Katadotis's father was a Creek immigrant. 


A SPECIAL FOR SIMPSONS-SEARS: International YMCA's Continuing 
Education Department has developed a Learn-French program for 
a group of senior sales executives from Simpsons-Sears 
department store, 


FITNESS COMPLEX AT WEST ISLAND Y: The West Island YMCA could 
have a comprehensive fitness complex in operation early in the 
next year. 


A proposal now being considered calls for the installation of 
modern-equipped exercise rooms, a sauna, solarium, locker rooms 
and lounges on the second floor of the building. 


Details of plans, to be revealed shortly, also involve a series 
of professionally Supervised conditioning programs for men and women. 


STREET WORKERS SET SIGHTS ON DELINQUENCY: The Federal Solicitor 
General's Department is underwriting a street-work pilot project 
to prevent juvenile delinquency. 


The undertaking was started some 23 months ago by the YMCA's 
Metropolitan Outreach Unit in an inner city district with a 
mainly French-language population of almost 90,000. 


Results of street workers’ efforts are being scientifically 
evaluated, on an ongoing basis, by teams of researchers from 
a number of universities, 

¢ 


=30« 
For further information please call: Bill Sher 
849-5331 


