FROM THE INFORMATION OFFICE 
Vi. h-O13! Local i30 
GERALD WRIGHT DIRECTOR 


PUBLIC LECTURE 
SPONSORED BY WORKMEN'S CIRCLE 
AT BIRKS HALL, SGWU 


METROPOLITAN YMCA 
OF MONTREAL 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS 
UNIVERSITY AND SCHOOLS 


June Ith, 1963 


WORKMEN'S CIRCLE = ANNUAL LECTURE 


As Canadian Delegate, Professor Arthur Lermer 
participated in the International Congress of 
Economists in Rome on economic planning. Im- 
mediately thereafter he conducted an economic 
research study in Western Europe. You are cor- 
dially invited to a reception with the follow- 
ing programme: 


|) Opening remarks . .... . Ps. Wolkovitch 
2) The social, economic dynamics 
of Western Europe (from Rome 
to Stockholm) -- 
lecture 2°. s ssi sieue » Prof. A. Lermer 
3) Solo by an outstanding vocalist, 
composer and conductor. Ben Yomen (Miami) 
Place: Birks Hall, Sir George Williams University 
1435 Drummond Street 
Date: Saturday, June !5th, 1963 


Time: 8:00 p.m. 


3% ATTACHED ARE ENGLISH NOTES ON THE TEXT OF THE LECTURE-- 
THE LECTURE WILL BE DELIVERED IN YIDDISH. 


4 


Notes on text to be delivered 
in Yiddish on June /I5th--re- 
lease time, 10:00 P.M.-- by 
Professor Arthur Lermer, Chair- 
man of Department of Economics, 
SGWU, to Workmen's Circle at 
Birks Hall. 


INTRODUCTION 


Perhaps one should begin with a brief statement about the or- 
ganization which sponsors tonight's lecture. The Workmen's 
Circle, a fraternal order with over 65,000 members in North 
America, is a democratic movement, left of center, with strong 
social democratic undertones. It originated in the late 1890s 
on the East Side of New York City as an effective instrument 
serving the cause of integrating the lonely impoverished Jewish 
immigrants from eastern Europe into the American urban scene, 
The Canadian branch offspring followed the same philosophy. 


It served as a mutual social benefit society, with emphasis 
on education. 


When in the frying years between the two wars §0 many Jews 
looked taward Moscow for a solution to the perplexing rise of 
anti-semitism and social injustice, the Workmen's Circle stood 
almost alone in its relentless fight against communism and for 
reintegration of the Jewish people into the North American 
society. It has heen consistently dedicated to the evolution 
of a fuller economic, political, social, and cultural democracy 
in the U.S.A. and Canada, as well as throughout the world. 


It is in that soirit that the Workmen's Circle pioneered in the 
formation of the Jewish Labour Committee, formed in the 1930s 
to combat fascism and anti-semitism, and in fact to combat any 
form of racial discrimination. 


Today, the Workmen's Circle is in the forefront of the great 
struggle for human rights now being conducted on the North 
American continent. 


During the war, through the Jewish Labour Committee, the 
Workmen's Circle penetrated into the ghettos, hide-out bunkers, 
and concentration camps with the most vital materials and moral 
assistance. One of the most glorious acts was the saving of’ 
over 1600 families, the majority of whom were non-Jews from 
Western Europe and the Russian occupied territories of Poland, 
from the Nazi holocast. 


My family reached this promised land of Canada in 19k], via 
Russia and Japan, after an almost two year.odessy as a result 
of the full assistance rendered to us by the Jewish Labour 
Committee. 


No wonder that it is with a sense of great pride | am as- 
sociated with this movement and have readily accepted to share 


some of my Impressions from a recent trip to the main capitals 
of Europe with you, ladies and gentlemen, tonight. 

NOTES ON LECTURE 
My topic has great scopes; "The Dynamics of Western Europe". 
Thee are so many facets of the current dynamic trends in Western 
Europe that any attempt in a lecture to treat the topic ina 
comprehensive manner would be impossible. | shall single out 
the topic of economic planning because of the Internationa! Con- 
gress of Economic Planning which | attended in Rome and the 
numerous interviews with planning authorities which | subsequent ly 
conducted in Rome, Paris, Bruxelles, Stockholm, Oslow, and The 


Hague. 


The methods training differ with each country, but the common 
denominators seem fo be: 

1}. That a democratic society cannot accept laissez-faire 
policy. 

2. Nor can a democracy flourish when private initiative 
is suppressed. 

3. Government must, therefore, plan and induce the public 
and private sectors of the economy to respond fo fhe 
planning process. 

h. The process of planning requires, not only a profound 
system of economic research, but a most enlightened 
attitude of all classes in the society. 

5. Both trade unions and management do participate actively 


in the planning process. 


6. The European Common Market indulged recently in effective 
planning--ift also exercised a very strong influence on 
the entire planning process in Western Europe. 

7- The planning system widened and enhanced the democratic 
process by developing another non-political meeting 
ground beside the parliamentary sphere for the meeting 
of divergent economic groups. 

8. Above all, through a continuous concerted effort, wil nine 
ning assures benefits of a long-run perspective in 
economic develooment. 

9. Economic planning has so far helped to avoid fluctuations 
and raised the economic potential of the respective 
economies. The standard of living has risen accordingly 
in each case. 

10. The France of Charles de Gaulle certainly not a social 
democratic oriented country, has nonetheless under 
economic planning reached the highest level of efficiency 
in the planning process and is leading all the countries, 
both in terms of techniques as well as results. 

ll. While research and persuasion are the main vehicles of 
the French planning techniques, the carrot (i.e. in 
terms of tax benefits, subsidies, etc.) as well as the 
stick (through the credit system) are used effectively 


in the application of the plan. 


North America and Canada especially can learn a great deal from 
the Western European experience in planning. Too long have we 


shunned government intervention through planning for economic 


~k< 


growth because of our long have we shunned government inter- 
vention through planning for economic growth because of our 
long out-dated adherence to laissez-faire principles. Out of 
the experience of the depression crisis, we finally only re- 
luctantly accepted counter cyclical intervention on behalf of 
government. If we are willing to throw off these out-moded 
attitudes, then we can learn from European experience that long- 
range coordinated economic planning between government and 
public and private sectors of enterorise is the only truly 
creative and realistic approach to the problems of the business 
cycle and to the vrobelms of long-range economic development 


and rising standard of living for all. 


With the establishment of a Federal and Quebec economic ad- 
visory council, we are just beginning to move in this direction. 
The sooner we would appreciate the full Significance and im- 
pact of the planning process for Canada, the greater the chances 
for a successful acceleration of our economic growth and a 


better living for all. 


