Metropolitan Offices 
1441 Drummond Street 


Telephone 849-5331 
Montréal Communiqué 


Vv 


October 26, 1973, 


STAFF ADDITIONS: George Hale:7, formerly with the Federation of Catholic Charities, 
Fakes over as Executive Director of Lachine-Dorval YMCA... 

Bienvenue: Ex~C.0.F.I. Professeur Jacques Dessureault a ét6 nommé Coordonnateur 
des moyens de divertissements de la Succursale Internationale de la Y. 


STAFF RE-ASSIGNMENTS: Glynn Davis has been appointed Director of Physical 


and Recreation of Westmount YMCA. He was Community Projects Director 
at Verdun-LaSalle Branch. 


CAMPAIGN '74; David Braide, a Vice-president with CIL, will serve as general 

Of the Montreal YMCA 1974 financial campaign. Logan Brown, President 
of Robin Esod Multifoods will head the Corporate and Special Names on of 
the drive . Murcay Robinson, Manager, Mutual Life Insurance Co., will be Chair- 
man of Branch Divisions. 
Chairmen have also been named for four branch divisions, they are: P. Davey, 
Camping Branch; John Rogers, Downtown; Graham Ballantyne, Nerthwestern; J, 
Normandin, Verdun-LaSal'c. . 


SPEAKERS 'BUREAU: A corps of spokesmen has been recruited to help 
relate and interpret what the Y is doing in Greater Montreal. If 

you have any candidates for this Speakers'Bureau, or know of any groups 
who might be interested in hearing about the Y, please contact Bill 
Sher at 849.5331. 


BUREAU D'ORATEUR: Une formation d'orateurs a été recrutée en vue d'aider 
 raconter ef interpréser ce que fait la Y dans le Grand Montréal. Si 
vous avez des candidats pour ce bureau d'orateurs, ou connaissez des 
groupes qui pourraient Etre intéressés au sujet du Y, s'il-vouseplaft 
comuniquez avec Bill Sher 4 849-5331. 


LANGUAGE CLASSES POPULAR: International Branch reports its language classes -- 
mornings and evenings -- are operating at capacity. Participation is about 17 
per cent ahead of last year. 


LES CLASSES DE LANGUE POPULATRE: La Succursale Internationale donne un compte- 
rendu de ses classes de langue -- matin et soirs -- fonctionnent 4 capacité. 
La participation est d'environ 17 pour cent meilleure que l'an dernier. 


IN CHATEAUGUAY: Over 300 persons -- including a number of pre-school children 
=- are currently involved with Y programs in Greater Chateauguay. Emphasis is 
on recreational activities such as swimming, karate, judo, yoga, ballet, 
badminton and an indoor playground program. 


SKIING AND SNOWSHOWING AT KANAWANA: Programs for outdoor people of all ages 
Will again be carried on at Kamp Kanawana this winter. Facilities include a 
lift, three downhill slopes, 20 miles of trails for cross-country skiing and 
snowshoeing, a club house and a baby-sitting service. Instructional courses 
will be directed by Leo Robitaille. For complete information please contact 
Mrs, Olga Hall at 849-5331 or Mrs. Elaine Robitaille at 691-1118. 


INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS: A West Island Y group is raising funds to help finance 
a program to train young unemployed men for jobs with the fishing industry in 
Ceylon... The Canada world Youth Exchange Program has asked the YMCA to involve 
a group of young people from Fiji for a one-month period with community programs 
in the Montreal area. 


SHAPING UP: If what is happening at Northwestern YMCA is indicative, the snow 
fills should be busy this winter. About 155 men and women are taking part in 
the branch's ski-fitmess program, an increase of 20 per cent over last year, 


WESTMOUNT ASTIR: Television-watching is also, probably,down significantly in 
Westmount. Participation in all Y courses there is substantially higher than 
was anticipated. 


LEADERSHIP PROGRAM FOR WEST ISLAND LADIES: West Island YMCA has started a 
Teadership training course for participants in its ladies'fitness program. 
Officials from St. Anne's Veteran's Hospital have already indicated interest 
in having some of the graduates operate a program for them. 


FORMER "Y" STAFFER DIES: René Denault, former director of Le Plateau Project 
Of the Downtown Branch died recently of cancer at the age of 28. René was 

on the staff of the Solicitor General's Department in Ottawa at the time of his 
death. 


DECES D'UN ANCIEN MEMBRE DU "Y": René Denault, ancien directeur du projet Le 
Plateau de la succursale du centre-ville est décédé récemment du cancer A l'age 
de 28 ans. René était membre du personnel du département du Solliciteur Général 
d'Ottawa au moment de sa mort. 


FOR SLOW LEARNERS: The Jewish Junior League is sponsoring a Verdun-Lasalle YMCA 
project for slow.learners. Three teachers will be placed in Bannantyne School 
to work with the children. 


BOYS' CLUBS OF CANADA SYMPOSIUM: Floyd Johnson, Downtown Y's Fitness Director, 
Will be a key leader at a Health and Fitness Symposium for Boys' Clubs regional 
staff. The symposium will be in Montreal, from October 29th to November 3rd. 


ADVERTISING AND PROMOTION: Need any help in designing promotional material, 
developing or placing advertising and/or producing printing? Downtown Y's 
Advertising and Creative Section might be able to give you a hand. For further 
information contact Bob Kuman at 849-5331 local 712. 


SKI ET A KANAWANA: Des activités extérieures pour les gens de tous — 

ages continueront au Kamp Kanawana cet hiver. Les facilités incluent un monte-~- 

pente, trois pistes de descente, vingt milles de parcours pour le ski de fond 

et raquette, un pavillon et un service-de garderie. Les cours d enseignement 

seront dirigés Léo Robitaille. Pour plus d'informations, communiquez avec 
geeu9-8331 ou Mne Elaine Robitaille a 691-1118. 


Mme Olga Hall, 
For further information, Pour de plus amples informations , 
please contact: veuillez communiquer avec: 


Bill Sher 
849-5331 (Local 742) 


