hd 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY 


v 


HISTORICAL REVIEW e« 


FROM THE INFORMATION OFFICE 
Vie -O13!1 Local 130 
GERALD WRIGHT DIRECTOR 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS 
UNIVERSITY AND SCHOOLS 


METROPOLITAN YMCA 
OF MONTREAL 


June IIth, 1963 


The present faculties of Arts, Science, and Commerce 

of Sir George Willtams University developed from the 
formal evening education work of the Montreal Young 

Men's Christhan Association. This work, inaugurated 

in 1873, represented Canada's earliest efforts in 

evening courses for employed young men. a was initiated 
largely at the hand of Dr. F. We. Kelly, a member of 

the Protestant Central Board of Examiners and President 
of the Montreal YMCA. The classes drew as lecturers 

some of the great names of Canadian science and education, 
including Sir William Dawson, Principal of McGill; 

Mr. P.eS. Ross, who taught Commercial Arithmetic and 
Bookkeeping; J. T. Donald, Chemistry ; Dr. Roddick, on 


Healths Sir William Oster, on The Brains and Dr. Proudfoot, 


on The Eye) 


At the turn of the century, the classes were coordinated 
into the system known as the YMCA Schools. In 1920, 
largely to serve as a rehabilitation scheme for World 
War | veterans, the Evening High School was inaugurated, 
and in 1926 the name Sir George Williams College was 
adopted to designate, from that time forward, the ex- 
panding formal adult evening education program of the 


Young Men's Christian Association in Montreal. 


L the College was first conducted under the terms of 
the charter of the Montreal Young Men's Christian 
Association (1851). In March, 198, however, the 
College was granted a specific Charter by the Provincial 
Legislature, establishing It a body corporate and 
politic, for the purpose of conducting a university 


in the Province of Quebec. 7 


ee 1956, Sir George Willtams College occuplted a new 
$3 million building constructed especially for its 
use from funds contributed by the Montreal community. 
With its efficient new building, and without a campus, 
located as it is in the heart of downtown Montreal 

ge MENTS it is most readily accessible to its students, 
Sir George Williams has grown over the years, not only 
in numbers, but in the acceptance and esteem of its 
community and among other institutions of higher 
learning. With 90 years experience in evening education, 
from elementary school to university level, Sir George 
Williams University is Canada's foremost project in 
formal evening adult education. Its status was clarified 
on December 18, 1959, when the Provincia! Legislature 
passed an amendment to the 1948 act of incorporation 


changing the name to Sir George Williams University. 


The University is presently engaged in the preparation 
of a $22 million expansion to Its downtown concrete 


campus. A capital grant from the Provincial Government 


and a proposed capital funds campaign are expected 

to provide for a unique high-rise l0-storey university 
building at Bishop and Burnside Streets by 1966. This 
will allow enrollment to grow from the present 2500 
day and 6300 evening students to 5000 day and 10,000 


evening students. 


