NEWS RELEASE 


METROPOLITAN YMCA | SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS 
OF MONTREAL ' UNIVERSITY AND SCHOOLS 


i 


From the Information Office 


Rotary Club of Montreal 849 - 5331 Ext. 57 


Leadership Development Experiment 


HARRY THOMAS 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE | 


The Rotary Club of Montreal in cooperation with twenty-five other 
organizations interested in youth are conducting an experiment in lea- 
dership development. They have brought together fifty-six teen-agers 
(15-19 years) to actively participate in a group-centered experience of 
leadership development. 

The young people are divided into four groups and meet on conse- 
cutive Mondays through a six-week period which runs from January 27 to 
March 2. All sessions take place at the Drummond St. YMCA. Staff meme 
bers from the ‘participating organizdtions serve as group leaders. 

The goals of this experiment are to develop better methods of en- 
couraging young people to take positive leadership roles in the commun= 
ity and assist youth organizations in developing stronger leaders among 
their memberships. The program is based on the concept that leadership 
ability in our society stems from self-insight, the understanding of 
groups and how they function, and the development of social attitudes 
compatible with our democratic philosophy and way of life. 

There are other interesting aspects of the Rotary experiment. The 
teenagers represent a cross-section of the community along several lines; 
socio-economic, ethnic and religious. Such heterogenity enables the 
participants to see themselves as members of a much larger and more com- 
plex community. The extensive and varied representation also broadens 


MOTCecsesecerseeve 


-2- 


the outlook of staff members who have become accustomed to working with 
young people all from the same segment of the community. 

The unique leadership training program was developed by the Rotary 
Clubs Youth Services Committee under D. Novinger. A special committee 
headed by 0.N.H. Owens was formed to put the plan into action. The 
services and facilities of the Metropolitan YMCA were enlisted and the 
various youth organizations in Montreal were invited to participate. 
Rix Rogers of the YMCA is staff coordinator, 

Other staff include: J. Hopkins, Verdun LaSalle Branch YMCA; 
Rhoda Kopstein, YM-YWHAs; Lynne Kyle, Montreal Girls Association; 

Bruce McFarlane, YMCA Vocational Centre; Pat Morrison, University 
Settlements; Robert Russell, Montreal Boy's Association; Ross Seaman, 
Metropolitan Office YMCA; and Lloyd Welton, Westmount Branch YMCA. 

Rotarians hope the project will continue on an annual basis, with 
participation expanding each year. Those attending this year, about as 
many girls as boys, were selected by their organizations on the basis 
of interest. 

Organizations represented in the project are: 

Rosemount Boys Club YM~YWHA 

Holy Cross Boys Club St. Andrews Youth Centre 
Dawson Boys Club Verdun-LaSalle Branch YMCA 
- Westmount Branch YMCA Montreal 4Girls Association 
Lakeshore Branch YMCA Lion's Boys & Girls Club 


East-End Boys & Girls Club Unity Boys Club 


Tyndale House 
Lachine Branch YMCA 
Camp Lewis 


Negro Community Centre 


Boys Scouts 
N.D.G. Branch YMCA 


YMHA (Western Branch) 


MOLEC ocececce 


-3- 


Pointe St. Charles Boys & Girls Club Catholic Boys Services 
Old Brewery Mission's Camp Chapleau Lachine Braneh YMCA 
Victoria Town Boys Club University Settlement 
Ukranian Orthodox Church 


=~ 30 - 


