Metropolitan Offices 
1441 Drummond Street 
Telephone 849-5331 


Young Men's Christian Association of Montreal 


For release after 2:00 P.M. 
Friday, February 28, 1969. 


YMCA ON FRONT LINES OF SOCIAL CHANGE 


Steps being taken to meet some of the more disturbing youth 
problems in one of Montreal's largest suburban regions were outlined 
Friday to a group of concerned businessmen by William Pigott, Associate 
Executive of the West Island YMCA, 

This branch of the Montreal YMCA is probably best known for 
its Ski Schoole-the largest operation of its kind in Canada--and for 
its recreational, physical, educational and social programs for young 
people and adults. 

But over the past year, tore effort has been devoted to 
recruiting people and involving them in a wulti«front effort to meet 
deep-rooted problems. Unresolved, these could seriously warp the out- 
look for many thousands of pre-teenagers, as well as adolescents and 
men and women in their 20s. 

By identifying problems and clearly explaining their urgency, 
thie Y has been able to mobilize hundreds of individuals, including 
many who had never before participated in community development programs. 

One tangible result is the West Island Social Action Committee, 
which he chairs. It is made up of representatives of School Soards, 


MOTESsessvrve 


2 


Municipal Government, Police, Hospitals, Home and School Associations, 
Church Groups, teachers, parents and young people. 

Current main concern of this organization is the increased 
usage and trafficking of drugs among young people. This in turn 
has focused new attention on the need for more recreational facilities 
and activities for youth, more programs to help parents understand 
their role, greater involvement of young people in the decisions which 
will affect them. 

Last summer, a Youth Employment Agency, run by and for young 
people in the West Island area, was able to partly fill a void by find- 
ing part-time jobs for 150 students. This project will be re-organized 
and operated again this coming summer. 

Another undertaking that is being watched with close interest 
involves Dick Hamill, „ detached worker with the west Island Y. He 
and a representative group of students from all major Protestant schools 
in the area are preparing a proposal which will attempt to define how 
young people can have a voice on School Boards. 

Youth centres at Seaconsfield and Pierrefonds provide young 
people with further opportunities to exercise initiative. With e YMCA 
staff member on hand to provide counsel, they set their own standerds 
of behaviour and dress, plan their own programs, and have the respon- 
sibility for maintaining the premises. 


More 


In addition to recreational activities, these centres have 
also prompted the formation of a vocational guidance service and a 
number of discussion groups. 


wn 30 ee 


For further information please contact: 8111 Sher, 
849-3331 Loc. 742 


