Metropolitan Offices 
1441 Drummond Street 
Telephone 849-5331 


Young Men’s Christian Association of Montreal 


heb. WS. bE 1 £26 OR 
JANUARY 30, 1969. 


THE MONTREAL YMCA IN A NUTSHELL: January 20-26 was 
marked throughout North Amertca as Nattonal YMCA Week. 

Some of the ways in whitch the Association positively influ- 
ences people--espectally youth--were outlined by W.N. Hall 
at a flag-raising ceremony in Place Ville Marte. 

Mr. Hall, president of the MONTREAL YMCA, noted that 
the first YMCA in North America was founded here in 1851. 
In tracing its evolution, he said its main emphases today 
are on character development and leadership training, prep- 
aration of pre-teens for adolescence and teenagers for 
maturity, the search for ways to bridge the generation gap 
and the development of solutions to contemporary and comm- 
untty problems. 

New ways are being sought to help clarify and 
strengthen family relationships. More programs are being 
developed to foster communicatton and co-operation between 
Quebec's two main language groups. Thousands of youngsters 
are each year provided wtth experiences that will enjoy- 
ably promote all-round development and become treasured 
memories tn later years. 


SPOTLIGHT ON DETACHED WORK: The CBC devoted a major segment of its 
January 23 Hourglass Show to Mark Early and the young people he 
works with fn Montreal West. Mark, 25, is an engineering assistant 
who is also studying for his B.A. degree at Sir George Williams 
University. He recently refused a salary increase, arranging 
instead to get time off from his job so he could serve as a volun- 
teer detached worker. 


PROBING THE SYMPTOMS: On January 21, R.G. Rogers, 
general secretary of the MONTREAL YMCA, inststed at a Mon- 
treal Rotary Luncheon that the current revolt of young 
people can be resolved so that almost everyong would bene- 
fit. 

"One of the main keys ts front-line face-to-face 
leadership--leadership by example, leadershtp which pro- 
poses guidelines, encourages discussion, shares values and 
heeds criticism," he said. 

Next evening, during an address to the Quebee Camp- 
ing Association, he observed that drug-taking will not be 
checked unless its real hazards and causes are clearly 
understood by both users and those who try to dtssuade them. 

"Inereased use of drugs has, however, made both 
young people and adults more aware of the complexity of the 


aa 


gulf that separates them. This in turn has re-emphasized 
the need for continuing dialogue and frank interchanges." 


QUEBEC OFFICIAL LOOKS AT Y: M. Pierre Duceppe, The Province of Que- 
bec's Commissioner of Youth and Leisure, spent all of January 27 at 

a special MONTREAL YMCA orientation program. The day-long session 
was part of an overall! look by the Provincial Government at Engl ish- 
language recreational services in Quebec. 

The Y presentation ranged from community development to camping, from 
mothers and pre-teen programs to ski schools and continuing education, 
and from bilingual activities to physical education. 

Y program specialists also discussed detached work, efforts to combat 
drug-taking, leadership training and the role of drop-in centres. 


HONING OLD SKILLS AND DEVELOPING NEW ONES: Ray Rouse, 
of METRO's Program and Field Services Staff, will be a 
group leader at a Professional Development program to run 
February 1-13 at Geneva Park. Emphasis will be on up-grad- 
ing and strengthening of the capabilities needed by YMCA 
workers today. 

Judging by past experience, participants wtll pro- 
bably be working some 12 hours a day and seven days a week. 
Trainees from Greater Montreal are Marton Hamill of WEST 
ISLAND BRANCH, Terry Johnston of METRO, Bob Landreville of 
DOWNTOWN, Arden Thurber of NORTHMOUNT and Al Whittal of 
LACHINE-DORVAL. 


REMINDER: DON'T FORGET THE PRE-CAMPAIGN BUFFET DINNER TO BE HELD 
ON TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, AT 6:00 P.M., IN DOWNTOWN BRANCH'S 
BUDGE HALL. 


For further Information please contact: Bill Sher 
Public Relations Director 
849-5331 Loc. 742 


