Metropolitan Offices 
1441 Drummond Street 
Telephone 849-5331 


Montréal Communique 


April 24, 1969. 


THE HIGH COST OF INDOLENCE: Recent experiments in DOWNTOWN 
YMCA demonstrated that physically inactive adults--especially 
those in sedentary occupations--are flirting with serfous 
trouble. Using the Branch's fitness-testing clinic as the 
arena, the tests pitted men who were not taking part in planned 
physical activities against others who have been Involved In 

Y programs for from 3 to 12 months. 


Participants In the demonstration did not physically compete 
against each other. Instead, special equipment was used to 
measure and compare responses of hearts and blood vessels, 
lung efficiency and excess fat--the key elements of endurance 
and physical capacity to work, play and recover from extra- 
ordinary stress. 


Findings indicate the non-Y testees had been needlessly 
squandering years of youthful vitality and permitting their 
resistance to cardiovascular breakdown to deteriorate pre- 
maturely. But comparisons also Indicate that the adverse 
effects of inactivity are almost always reversible, and in 
a relatively short time. 


Results for the Y volunteers show that cardiovascular effic- 
iency can be Improved by some 35% in three months and 70%- 
75% In one year. Further comparisons emphasize that--even 
in the shorter period--surplus fat can be significantly 
reduced and plumonary efficiency increased markedly. 


Y MARATHONERS COMPLETE THE DISTANCE: Spectators and 
competitors overflowed the starting line. The density of 
the crush made it difficult to single out individual runners. 
All that could be established for sure was that six Montreal 
YMCA standard bearers started and finished the Boston Marathon. 


From DOWNTOWN BRANCH, there were Jean Forest, 57, Terry 
Hendershot, 31, George Howell, 43, Joe Huza, 43, and Peter 
Van Dan Dungen, 23. NDG-Y's colors were carried by Lawrence 
lrany, 39. Messrs. Huza, Irany and Van Dan Dungen finished 
the more than 26-mile long course in under four hours. 


CAMP COUNSELLORS NEEDED: Kamp Kanawana still has a limited 
number of openings for male counsellors over 18 years of age. 


my 


For further information please contact Geoff Anderson at 
849-5331 local 743. A flood of applications for the Girl's 
Section are still being processed. Pre-registration for the 
upcoming summer is to date some 15% ahead of last year. 


This summer, for the first time, Kanawana will also offer 

an immersion style "Living-in-French" experience for boys 
age 12-16. Instead of classrooms, it will take advantage of 
woodlands, lakes, playing fields and hobby shops to whet the 
boys appetites for learning. There will also be some time 
reserved each day for more formal study. 


BIG-TIME OPERATION: Did you know that the YMCA 
ts the biggest hotel operator in North America. 
In Montreal alone, the 12-storey residence has 
500 rooms, ranging from economy accommodattons 
to $10-a-day executive suites. 


NDG-Y LADIES IN THE NEWS: Miss Hannah Archibald, a member of 
NDG-Y's Board, walked away with top honours in the Ladies "B" 
Singles Division of the Lakeshore Badminton Tournament. She 
then teamed up with runner-up Ann Donovan, the Branch's Ladies 
& Girls Phys. Ed. Director, to sweep the Doubles. 


Participants in NDG's Ladies Fitness program also attracted 
attention with their March Marathon. They logged a total of 
more than 1,100 miles and, collectively, shed 153 pounds. 


DETACHED WORK SEMINAR: A |2-man contingent will partic- 
ipate In a Detached Work Consultation in Kingston, Ont. on 
April 28-29. The Federal Government will be represented by 


Don McCombe, Chief, Correctional Consultation Centre. 


PEOPLE ON THE MOVE: Ross Seaman of METRO's Program & Field 
staff now on a special one-month World Service assignment in 
Guyana. Colleague Ray Rouse and wife there also, but on 
vacation...Ray's absence is probably a lucky break for his 
Girl Friday, Shelagh Johnson. She is getting over an ankle 
injury received during a run-in with a bicycle, and hopes to 
get rid of her crutches before returning for a two-week visit 
to her native England. 


SHORT TAKES: Lois and Harley Smith (he's with WEST 
ISLAND Y) are doing their bit for the population explosion. 
Their first child, a boy, was born March 30...Former Montreal 
Y staffer Terry Forth married recently in Churchill, Man., to 
the former Mehrun Nathoo, a native of Karachi, India. Terry 
works out of Churchill for the Department of Indian Affairs 
and Northern Development. His bride is a nurse in that region. 


For further information please contact: Bill Sher, 
Public Relations 
Director, 
(514) 849-5331 Loc. 742. 


