Metropolitan Offices 
1441 Drummond Street 
Telephone 849-5331 


Young Men’s Christian Association of Montreal 


For release at will. 


RECORD YMCA CAMPAIGN RUNS UNTIL MARCH 17 

The Montreal YMCA's biggest ever financial campaign is well 
underway with more than $131,000 in advance gifts already received. 

The drive runs until March 17 and has an objective of $375,000. 
While part of the proceeds will be channeled into a number of selected 
programs of social action, most of the proceeds will help support 
vital work with young people. 

"The search for answers to the bitter hostility and uncaring 
masks with which so many young people face adults is being pursued on 
many fronts," notes Lorne G. Main, Vice-President, Hawker~Siddely 
Canada, and General Chairman of the YMCA campaign. 

"One of the things the YMCA is trying to do here is to foster 
the sort of initiative and self development that will help prepare 
youth to challenge nihilistic militants and look for alternatives 
to anarchy and revolution." 

"This sort of preparation, backed by warm family relatione 
ships, can also motivate youngsters to stay in school, check the 
spread of drug-taking and ease the way through the pre-teen years 
and adolescence to naturity, he says. 

Mr. Main suggests that youth's alienation-«-whether active or 


passive--is frequently intensified by the belief that most adults 


MOTOSccrcress 


are indifferent or unaware of social inequities and obsessed with 
the pursuit of material possessions. 

"Space-age technology has helped raise the artescience of 
disseminating information to an unprecedented level, but done little 
to bridge the generation gap, he deplores. 

"On the contrary, it may have deepened misunderstanding and 
acgoravated growing-up problems by spotlighting how advances in 
machine-making and gadgetry have, apparently, outstripped humanistic 
development.” 

For the growing number of young people who avoid contact with 
any of society's institutions, the Y operates a wide range of outreach 
programs. Staff members involved in this work make contact with young 
people wherever they meet. 

"Their job is to listen, help identify concerns, answer 
questions, join in the development of co-operative answers," says 
Mre Maine | 

Inebranch programs of leadership training, physical education 
and self: development have also been updated. New ways are being 
developed to strengthen family relationships by preparing them to 
understand and cope with change, and by providing more opportunities 
for parents ard children to spend at least part of their leisure 
time together. 

"Calls for the YMCA to assist community groups are also pro- 
liferating,"” observes Mr. Main. 


MOr e 


wo Bue 


"These sometimes ask only for help in assessing issues and 
charting courses. More frequently, however, they require also that 
the Y muster resources, co-ordinate efforts and be both a long-term 
leader and participant." 

Efforts to help promote French-English understanding are also 
being stepped up. New lines of communication have been opened, and 
a number of co-operative projects initiated. 

"This emphasis or co-operative undertakinos is also reflected 
“dn work with immigrants. YMCA staff members in this field concen- 
trate on explaining the e ant responsibilities of Canadian 
citizens, and on encouraging newcomers to the country to develop the 
self-reliance and initiative to join the main community,” says Mr. Main. 

~~ 2080 
March 3, 1969. 


For further information please contact: 111 Sher, 
249-5331 Loc. 742. 


