*NEWS RELEASE /COMMUNIQUE DE PRESSE 


Editorial Communications Canada Limited 


A subsidiary of The Creative Communications Group Limited 


2065 Sun Life Building, Montreal 2, P.Q.— 861-9274 


EMBRYO YMCA MUSTERING COMMUNITY RESOURCES 
SUBJECT /SUJET 


WORD COUNT/NOMBRE DE MOTS 


YMCA OF MONTREAL 
FOR/COMMUNIQUE AU NOM DE 


AT WILL 
FOR PUBLICATION/PUBLIABLE 


rus Sat eRNEMENTS 
COMMUNI 
}CONTACT WILLIAM SHER 


Using a $10-a-month basement office as their base of operations, a 
representative group of Chateauguay residents is nurturing a YMCA 


action centre. 


"We don't need a building with swimming pool and gymnasium," says 


Constable Tony Cornford of the CNR's police department, a spokesman 


for the group. 


"We are developing our own leaders and hope to take full advantage of 


facilities already in existence in the community," he explains. 


Premises of the embryo association are located beneath the medical 
building in the Place Chateauguay Shopping Plaza. Furnishings are 
sparse, consisting of a battered desk, a scarred table, a dozen hand- 
meSdawn chairs and an old filing cabinet. 


Continued 


"This room is mainly for meetings," 


emphasizes Mr. Cornford, who was 
recently elected chairman of the developing Y's program committee. "For 
our fall program, we have already been promised the use of the basement 


in St. George's church and the Chateauguay police gymnasium." 


Mr. Cornford, aged 32 and the father of two pre-school children, notes 
that the initial main objective of his group is "to work with and for 


the teenagers of Greater Chateauguay." 


This objective was selected by English and French-speaking parents, 
priests,ministers, school principals, teachers, civic administrators 


and representatives of various service clubs. 


"To determine our most urgent need, we carried out an in-depth 
reconnaissance of the community and had many discussions with teenagers," 


recalls Mr. Cornford. 
Continued 


ae 


"We now have over 350 sustaining members and are going ahead, but we are 
anxious to involve as many representative groups and individuals as 


possible in the planning process." 


Terry Forth, who was recently assigned by the Lachine-Dorval Branch of 
the Montreal YMCA to work with the Chateauguay group, agrees it may be 


pioneering a new concept in YMCAs. 


"Starting as it is, from within, completely free of institutional goals, 


this Y should be a true product of the community," 


observes Mr. Forth, 
the only professional YMCA staff member associated with this fledgling 
branch. 

He feels that his most important duties now are to help avoid duplication 
of effort and facilities, and assist in the establishment of contact 


with existing community organizations. 


Continued 


He will also help start and operate a Community Leadership 
Development program and serve as advisor to a newly-established 


Youth Council. 


While the Montreal YMCA will provide whatever professional assistance 
is required, the development program will provide most of the adult 


human resources needed. 


The Youth Council, made up of 15-18 year old boys and girls will 


initiate and co-ordinate activities for teenagers. 


= 30 = 


October 2, 1967. 


