(pur ( 167 Metropolitan Offices 


1441 Drummond Street 
Telephone 849-5331 


Young Men's Christian Association of Montreal 


\ 
/m - (t f / ih For release at will. 
[bmnt 1 THA 

4 


With some 2,000 volunteers out in the fieldg, the Mentreal YMCA's campaign 


far $375,000 reached the $/63,v7v mark on Friday. 

Most of the proceeds of the drive, which runs until March 17, have been 
earmarked to help support work with young people. 

Youth's alienation--whether in the form of active hostility or passive 
apathy--is currently one of the main concerns of the YMCA in Greater Montreal, 
says R.G. Rogers, General Secretary of the Assnciation. 

In its efforts to find relevant answers--not just palliatives--the Y is 
emphasizing activities which encourage understanding and two-way dialogue 
between adults and young people. 

Mr. Rogers deplored that space-age technology has helped raise the art- 
science of disseminating information to an unprecedented level, but done little 
to bridge the generation gap. 

"Instead, it may have deepened misunderstanding and aggravated growing-up 
preblems by emphasizing how advances in machine-making and gadgetry have, 
apparently, outstripped humanistic development." 

For the growing number of young people who avoid contact with any 
of society's institutions, the Y operates a wide range of outreach programs. 
Staff members involved in this work make contact with young people wherever 
they meet, listen, help identify concerns, answer questions and join in the 
development of co-operative answers. 

In-branch programs of leadership training, physical education and self 
development have also been updated. New ways are being developed to strengthen 


MOTCeceovee- 


wes 


family relationships by preparing parents and children to understand and cope 
with change by providing them with more opportunities to spend at least part 
of their leisure time together. 

"Calls for the YMCA to assist community groups are also proliferating," 
observes Mr. Rogers. 

"These sometimes ask only for help in assessing issues and charting courses. 
More frequently, however, they require also that the Y muster resources, 
co-ordinate efforts and be both a long-term leader and participant." 

Efferts to help promote French-English understanding are also being stepped 
up. New lines of communication have been opened, and a number of co-operative 
projects initiated. 

This emphasis on co-operative undertakings is also reflected in work with 
immigrants. YMCA staff members in this field concentrate on explaining the 
rights and responsibilities of Canadian citizens, and on encouraging newcomers 
to the country to develop the self-reliance and initiative to join the main 
community. 


telah 


March 7, 1969. 


For further information please contact: Bill Sher, 
849-5331 Loc. 72 


