Ww io 


NEWS 


FROM THE MONTREAL YMCA 


1441 DRUMMOND ST., MONTREAL 
TELEPHONE 849-5331, EXT. 57 


April 6th, 1965. 


For immediate release 


Y CAMPAIGN REPORT 
"All too few people are aware that the work of the Y.M.C.A. in 
underprivileged nations recently celebrated its 75th anniversary", 
said Maurice Strong, Vice-Chairman of the International Committee 


of the Y.M.C.A.'s today. 


Speaking to leaders of the current Y.M.C.A. Financial 
Campaign, Mr. Strong who has personally visited many of these Y- 
centers, described the world service program as one »sf release, 
rather than one of relief."Since the inception of this program 
in 1889, the Y has made it a policy to go only where it was in- 
vited and to work itself out of a job as soon as possible by 


developing local leadership." 


There are now over 12,000 Y centers in 83 countries 
and territories reaching an estimating 100 million persons each 
year. Although none of the funds currently being raised are 
slated for this world service program, the Montreal Y has each 
year increased its support of the international program of the 


YMCA. smeoreleee 


-2- 


"Leadership training is probably a greater need than many of 
the costly development projects now being completed in newly 


developing nations.", Mr. Strong concluded. 


Another guest at today's luncheon was Alex L. Hall 
whose membership dates back to the 1890's. Mr. Hall was an 
active member of the first Y.M.C.A. blitz campaign in 1911 which 
provided for the construction of 1912 of the Central, Westmount 
and North Branch Buildings. This campaign established a pattern 
which has since been adopted by campaigns all over North America. 
"You will never know how much value the dollars you raise today 
will have in the life of the community of tomorrow" Mr. Hall 
told the group. "I haven't been ill since 1918", Mr, Hall con- 
tinued , "and the credit goes to the kind of training I had as 


a young lad at the Y." 


Mr. Leonard Walker, who chaired today's meeting 
reported that the Y has now reached 58% of its minimum 
objective. "Every possible effort must be made to reach our 
target within the next week if we are to realize our goals 


in the year ahead," 


