Metropolitan Offices 
1441 Drummond Street 
Telephone 849-5331 


Montréal Communique 


Approximately 300 words 
For release at will 


YMCA Continuing Educativn 
Courses fill space-age gap 
Computers and their "do not fold or spindle" punch cards are among the 
many current elements adding significance to the continuing education programs 


of the YMCAs of Greater Montreal. 


They sharply reduce the time required to carry out a multitude of business 
operations, enabling companies to cut work weeks, offer longer vacations and 


generally permit employees more time for recreation. 


The importance of the recreational gap that can be filled by post-school 
learning for adults is further underlined by the continuing development of 
labor-saving devices which provide homemakers with more liberty by enabling 


them to get through their daily chores in less time. 


Unfortunately, a number of machines, especially those employed in business. 
tend to encourage conformity and inhibit creativity. As a result, many men 
and women handle extra freedom from their jobs as nothing more than additional 


time to be bored. 


Though sometimes troubled by uneasiness that their lives should and can 


be better, they don't quite know how to start effecting improvements. 


Amual vacations, weekend trips, caring for lawns and gardening help some 
individuals find relief from tedium during the summer. But as days shorten, 


and autumn gives way to winter, they retreat to their television screens. 


/more 


Bian 
This tendency has prompted the YMCA to concentrate increasingly on ways to 
strengthen peoples' leisure time capabilities and provide them with enjoyably 


rewarding outlets for their leisure time. 


As the pioneer of continuing education on this continent, the YMCA has 
also developed a wide range of courses to strengthen earning potentials, 
sharpen perceptions and both adjust to the times and become masters of their 


environment. 


Such courses share answers, teach new skills and help strengthen old ones. 
Perhaps of most importance, they prompt people to ask the sort of questions 
that help them understand and cope with change. 


=a30as 


September 10, 1969 


For further information please contact: Bill Sher 
89-5331 


