Metropolitan Offices 
1441 Drummond Street 
Telephone 849-5331 


Montréal Communiqué 


January 1971 


HAPPY NEW YEAR. HERE'S A BRIEF LOOK BACK AT 
SOME OF THE THINGS THAT HAPPENED IN 1970. 


JANUARY--The Montreal YMCA assumed interim responsIbiltty for the Montrezi 
Youth Clinic. At the time It was providing medical and psychfatric 
assistance to about 250 young people. The monthly caseload soared to 
about 1,200 during the summer period. 


A private citizen purchased a house on St. Catherine W. for use as 
a youth centre. Now, chartered as 4424 Inc., the premises contain 
facilities for recreation, counselling and Informal education, as well as 
a comprehensive medical and psychlatric clinic. 


The Y was called on to direct a course on "The Use and Abuse 
of Drugs." It was offered under the auspices of McGil| University, In 
co-operation with the United Nations Assoclation. 


West Island Y came up with a family ski program. It operated Saturdays 
at Kamp Kanawana and included Instruction, a baby-sitting service, lunch 
facilities and free soup. 


Accomodations were provided for 14 young ladies in the Downtown Y's 
500-room residence. 


FEBRUARY--Three of the most popular members of the Expos baseball club 
were enlisted as honorary captains for the Y's financial campaign. They 
were Ronnie Brand, Dan McGinn and Claude Raymond. 


A 60-hour hockey marathon was organized to raise funds for the Y 
In Verdun-LaSalle. The undertaking Involved some 50 young people, age 
14-20. 


N.D.G.-Y's Kinder Program taught a 7-month old pre-toddler to 
enjoy the water, Immerse her face in It and float on her back for up to 
three minutes at a stretch. A special fitness-testing clinic was also held 
for women. 


MARCH--International Y began an after-class recreational program for 
several hundred 8-I5 year olds from Edward VI! School. 


Management of Falrview Shopping Centre agreed to provide facilities 
In the complex for a youth centre. This is now operating as RENDEZVOUS 
680l. 


Rix Rogers, the Montreal Y's General Secretary, warned that 


Ignoring elther 'turned-on' or 'turned-off' young people could eventually 
result in soctal bankruptcy. 


more. se 


APRIL--West Island Y's Bill Pigott and Dr. Sidney Lecker, a prominent 
psychiatrist, co-authored a paper on "Coping with Drug Abuse." The 
matertal was published by the National Department of Health and Welfare. 


Undeterred by rain and chill, eight Montreal Y Joggers entered 
the Boston Marathon and completed the more than 26-mile course. 


Following the example of International and Westmount Branches, 
N.0.G.-Y announced that a special French-language section would be added 
to Its summer day camp. 


Fred Hubbard, former General Secretary of the Montreal Y, was awarded 
a life membership in the National Counc!! of YMCAs of Canada. This is 
the Highest Y honor in this country. 


After just two years in organized competition, the Downtown Y's 
Red Ralders won the Quebec basketball! champtonship. 


Dr. J.R. Unwin, Director of the Allan Memorial Institute's 
Adolescent Unit, took time out from a hectic schedule to publicly salute 
the Y. He said the association's outreach work in Montreal ts the only 
type of program in which he had any great faith. 


MAY--A free legal aid clinic was started In International Y for Greek- 
born Immigrants. 


Holbrook R. Davis, Alcan Aluminium's Chief Employee Relations 
Officer, was elected president of the National Council of Canadian YMCAs. 


Fifteen YMCA fitness program participants took part In a Miles 
for Millions walk. Most of them jogged the 28-mile course in under four 
hours. 


Directors of the Metropolitan Board of the Montreal YMCA approved a 
record budget of more than $2.8 million for the fiscal year started 
June |, 1970. 


JUNE, JULY, AUGUST--As was noted In the annual report, efforts to cope with 
a mounting workload helped sharpen and temper the capabilities of the 
Montreal Y during the year ended May 31, 1970. 


Some 32,000 different persons were Involved during the summer in 
Montreal Y activities. These included street work, day camps, resident 
camps, aquatics and alley programs. They provided vacation time 
employment for some 375 students. 


NDG Branch developed a special aquatics workout for Individuals 


who felt it would be too hot to exercise ina gymnasium. The name of this 
branch was officially changed to Northwestern YMCA. 


MOFEeee 


SEPTEMBER=-Challenging samplings of current moves to meet change were 
dramatically highlighted at the Montreal Y's II8th annual meeting. 


Two more ladies were appointed members of the Metropolitan Board. 


The Solicitor General's Department underwrote a Y street 
work project to curb juvenile delinquency in an east-central area of the 
city. 


A vacant police station on Craig St. E. was converted Into a youth centre. 


A program to ‘physically and psychologically! develop youngsters 
was Included in a new Y manual for minor league football coaches. 
Material was prepared by Roy McKelvie and Floyd Johnson. 


OCTOBER--RIx Rogers was appointed General Secretary of the National 
Counct! of Canadian YMCAs. He takes over that post April 1, 1971. 


The following volunteered to serve as key leaders of the Y's 
1971 financial campaign: G. Arnold Hart, Honorary Chairman; Frank B. 
Peterson, General Chairman; Pierre Delagrave, Chairman of Divisions; 
E.A. Thompson, Chairman, Corporate & Special Names. 


A 10-hour non-stop Run-a~Fund was held tn Alexis Nihon 
Plaza to raise funds for the Y's work in Guyana, South America. 


NOVEMBER--Ross Bannerman was appointed General Secretary and Chief 
Executive Officer of the YMCAs of Greater Montreal. 


Participation In Saturday youth programs of Northwestern Y was 
four times greater than a year earlier. 


International Y was selected to operate a Learn-French 
program for Simpsons-Sears sales executives. 


Members of the faculty and administrative staff of Vanier College 
started participating with students in a YMCA fitness program. 


DECEMBER--Plans were announced to develop a comprehensive YMCA fitness 
centre in the West Island area. 


A foundation agreed to finance the next !2 months costs of 
publ Ishing ECHO, the Greek language magazine put out by a group involved 
with the Y In the Mile End West section of Montreal. 


HERE'S HOPING YOU ALL HAD 
A MERRY CHRISTMAS 


-30- 
For further information please 
contact Bill Sher at 849-533], 


