November 15, 1967 

FOR RELEASE: At Will 

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, PLEASE CONTACT: 
Editorial Communications Canada Limited 
2065 Sun Life Building 


Montreal, Quebec 


William Sher/861-9274 


POLICE BOMB DISPOSAL SQUAD 
"buys' YMCA TRAINING COURSE 


Four bomb disposal experts and a representative of the Montreal 
Police Department's Identification Bureau have enrolled in the 
Downtown YMCA's scuba diving course. 

The men will be part of the regular class scheduled to start 
in mid-January. 

While you won't find any toddlers in Montreal's Downtown YMCA 
pool, chances are that you'll meet a number of grandparents being 
taught how to take their first strokes there. 

Growth of learn-to-swim classes for the very young has prompted 
this Y to concentrate on the frequently neglected adult section of 
the population. 

Milton D'Ganigian the Downtown Y's aquatics director, estimates 
he has over the past seven years trained dozens of instructors 
and helped some 800 adults develop the ability to enjoy them- 
selves in water. 

Emphasis of Milt's program, which is considered one of the 
most progressive in Canada, is on various types of recreational 


swimming and on life-saving. 
more 


A husky 29-year old, married and the father of a boy and 
girl, he is convinced no one is too old to learn to swim. Backing 
this conviction, he stakes his professional reputation every time 
he enrolls a new student. 

"Anyone who sticks with one of our six-week beginners courses 
will walk out a swimmer,'' is his unequivocal guarantee. 

Milt defines as "a swimmer" anyone who can jump into the 


deep end of the pool and swim 14 lengths. After that, "its 


just a matter of practising to improve style and develop endurance." 

His oldest student was an 8l-year old man who had never before 
done any swimming, but decided to learn under doctor's orders. 

A self taught swimmer, Milt is considered something of a 
maverick by fellow swimming directors. But, assisted by 20 
qualified instructors, he has contributed significantly to the 
development of YMCA aquatic standards across Canada. 

Milt started giving instruction at age 16, when he became 
coach of a teen-age group at the International YMCA, in the 
North End of Montreal. 

Some 10 years ago he became interested in scuba diving and 
subsequently designed the only bilingual underwater log book in 
existence. 

Interest in scuba diving prompted him to enroll in the Sir 
George Williams University course in oceanography. This, in turn, 
attracted him to underwater photography and, again spurred by 
inventive instincts, he developed a new type of waterproof camera case. 

Using versions of this development, he will this January 


introduce Canada's first course in underwater photography. 


