FOR RELEASE AFTER 6:00 PM 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 18,1967. 
For: YMCA of Montreal ee 


From: Editorial Communications Canada Limited 
2065 Sun Life Building 
Montreal 2, Quebec 
Contact: William Sher 
861-9274. 
MONTREAL YMCA PROBE CONTINUES 
AS W.N.HALL ELECTED PRESIDENT 
Wilfred N. Hall, former president of Domtar Ltd., has 
been elected president of the Montreal YMCA. He 


succeeds T. Denton Lewis, vice-president Securities, 


Bank of Montreal. 


In his final address as president, Mr. Lewis noted that 
the Montreal YMCA, now in its 116th year of operation, 


is facing many new challenges. 


"The strengthening of physical, social, intellectual 
and spiritual values, and the development of people's 
ability to get along with each other and work for the 


common good," is how he identified the job ahead. 


Quoting Professor Arnold Toynbee, the noted historian 
and humanitarian, Mr. Lewis observed: "The tragedy of 
human affairs is that we have been successful in 
mastering non-human nature, but have been relatively 


unsuccessful in the much more important business of 


. . Ww 
getting on with each other. Sentinued 


F. G. Hubbard, general secretary of the Montreal YMCA, noted 
that the association has over the last 2% years been carrying on 
an intensive self-examination, designed to ensure it remains in 


step with the times. 


"Discouraging and frustrating is the knowledge that there are 
so many areas of need that go untended. The wastage of human 


potential is saddening and tragic," he deplored. 


Main concerns of the YMCA are: 


Youth's rebellion against society and the broadening communications 


gap between young people and adults. 


The often unsatisfied outcry of young people for a voice in many 


of the changes affecting society. 


The need for more programs of continuing education. These should 
be designed to promote individual self-development and stretch 
participants’ capacities to enjoy more things more fully and to 


make a useful contribution to society. 


The growth of institutionalism and the increasing influence of 


government on all aspects of human activity. 
Ecumenism and biculturalism. 
The degree to which Y branches should participate in the affairs 


of their communities. 
Continued 


Other officers elected for 1967-68 were: 


Honorary President: H. Roy Crabtree 
President: W. N. Hall 
lst Vice-President: W. S. Kirkpatrick 
2nd Vice-President: | J. D. Houlding 
3rd Vice-President: R. A. Irwin 
Honorary Secretary: Albert L. Fairley, Jr. 
Honorary Treasurer: W. C. Corbett 
-~30- 


September 15, 1967. 


