Metropolitan Offices 
1441 Drummond Street 
Telephone 849-5331 


Young Men’s Christian Association of Montreal 


For release, Monday September 30, 1968. 
after 8:00 P.M. 
Approx. 310 words. 


MONTREAL YMCA TACKLES 
ROOT SOURCES OF UNREST 


A many-front confrontation with some of the root sources of today's unrest 
is being readied by the Montreal YMCA, R.G.Rogers, general secretary, told the 
116th annual meeting of the association. 

"Many of the key areas of concern have been identified, and our resources 
are being deployed to grapple with them", he said. 

According to Mr.Rogers, ‘involvement! seems to be one of the YMCA's main 
themes for the months ahead. 

"We are increasing our services to, and involvement with, the Frénch- 
speaking community. We are becoming more involved on a front-line basis 
with social and community problems. We expect to become increasingly in- 
volved in co-operative ventures with other organizations." 

Flexible programs have also been developed to involve family units in 
leisure-time and recreational activities which, while encouraging individual 
development, promote understanding and communications between different age 
groups. | 

Detached work programs, set up to establish contact and rewinvolve 
alienated or apathetic young people with society, are also being expanded. 
Emphasis here is on face-to-face involvement with individuals or groups +“== 
on street corners, in restaurants, shopping centres, bowling alleys and other 


such common youth meeting places. 


onQ an 

Beneficial influence of coffee houses and drop-in centres that are 
operated by and for teen-agers -- on their terms -- is also spreading. This 
in turn re-emphasizes the desire of young people for a say in the decisions 
affecting them. 

Mr. Rogers noted that the Metropolitan YMCA has established broad objectives, 
is handling overall planning and will serve as an information clearing house. 

"But the action is decentralized through our eight branches and our camps", 
he emphasized. "Working within broad Metro policy, each operating unit has 
set its own priorities and is developing the programs most needed in the 
communities they serve." 

While exploring and developing new areas of service, the Y is also up- 
dating its traditional programs of self-development, leadership training and 
physical education. 

"Our history shows clearly that the ability to identify, participate in 
and lead the way towards solutions to contemporary problems has long been one 


of the mest important strengths of the Y", commented Mr. Rogers. 


For further information please contact:- 


Bill Sher 

Montreal YMCA 

141 Drummond Street 

Telephone No. 69-5331. Loc. 7hi2 


