Metropolitan Offices 
1441 Drummond Street 
Telephone 849-5331 


Montréal Communique 


For release at will 
Approximately 275 words 
No-holds-barred Speaker 


To Address Y Annual Meet 


John J. Carson - human relations expert, outspoken social 
commentator, head of Canada's Civil Service - will be the keynote 
speaker at the Montreal YMCA's Lll7th annual meeting. 

Mr. Carson, father of six, is also Nattonal Prestdent of 
the YMCAs of Canada. 

The meeting, open to the news media, will be held on 
Monday, October 6, in Budge Hall, Downtown YMCA, 1441 Drummond 


Street. It will start at 6:00 p.m., with a buffet supper. 


R. G. Rogers, General Secretary of the Montreal YMCA, will 
discuss the Association's activities for the first four months 
ended September 30 and outline plane and objectives for the 
remainder of the current fiscal year. 

During the twelve months ended May 31, 1969, emphasis 
of all operating units of the Montreal YMCA was, increasingly, 
on the development of operating objectives and programs which 
could convert general aspirations into specifically positive 


acttons. 


«f< 


x 2 


Though activities which encourage individual self- 
development remained high on the YMCA's list of prtortttes, each 
branch concentrated on providing the types of programs most 
needed in their constituencies. 

Main objectives of tin-butlding programs were to promote 
physical education, fitness, leadership capabilities, sporte and 
social skills, self-awareness, aquatics, family unity and under- 
standing between different age and ethnic groups. 

Outside of branches, detached work programs were carried 
on tn a number of areas. This YMCA-ptoneered approach was 
started 3% years ago to establish contact with altenated young 
people, help them identify real concerns and assist in a search 
for positive alternatives to destructive anarchy and 
indtfference. 

In line with steps to become a more effective social 
force, the Y also involved itself more deeply with community 
concerns and human rights. This, in turn, led to greater involve- 
ments with young people, other organizations, the French- 
speaking community and governments. 


wZDe 


September 26, 1969 


For further information, please contact: Bill Sher 
849-5331 


