Metropolitan Office 
1441 Drummond Street 
Montreal 107, P.Q. 
Telephone 849-5331 


Young Men's Christian Association of Montreal 


September 26, 1973. 


REMINDER: Don't forget to make your reservation for the Metropolitan 
YMCA annual meeting, to start 6:00 p.m., Monday, October lst. 


RAPPEL: N'oubliez-pas de faire votre réservation pour l'assemblée an- 
muelle du YMCA, qui aura lieu 4 6:00 p.m., lundi le ler octobre. 


FAREWELL: Gary Boone former Phys. Ed. Director at Westmount Y, has moved 
to Halifax. He will serve there as a Recreation Consultant to the Nova 
Scotia Government. Good luck, Gary... John Weidman, Gary's counterpart at 
Verdun-LaSalle Y, has moved on to become a community worker at Montreal 
High School. Best wishes on the new job, John. 


WELCOME : Simon Larade succeeds John Weidman, at Verdun-LaSalle. Simon, 
a Maritimer, is a graduate of St. Francis Xavier University. Welcome 
aboard... At Downtown Y, Norm Clement has joined the staff as Assistant 
Director of Fitness Programs. Norm has earned a Bachelor's Degree in 
Biology and Chemistry at Loyola College, where he is following up with 
night-time studies in Physiology. Glad to have you with us, Norm. 


GOVERNOR-GENERAL HONORS OLD-TIMERS: Seven Montrealers, all YMCA members 
for at least 50 years, were honored recently at a special ceremony in 
Ottawa. Together, the group has been involved with the Y for a total of 
376 years. 


COMMUNITY PROGRAMS: The fall programming session finds all projects 
working from a position of strength established by a successful round 
of summer activities. The growth potential revealed by this work has 
surpassed expectations of the community developmental-educational concept. 


LE GOUVERNEUR GENERAL HONORE LES ANCIENS MEMBRES: Sept Montréalais, tous 

S depuis au moins 50 ans, ont recu des honneurs lors d'une 
cérémonie spéciale tenue & Ottawa. Le groupe entier a participé avec le 
YMCA pour une période totale de 376 ans. 


way OD. as 


JOBS FOR YOUTH. Verdun-LaSalle YMCA has organized a Youth Employment 
Service which found jobs for over 400 young people this past summer. 


Participants received training in how to act during interviews, how to fill 
out applications and how to behave on the job. In a number of instances , 
as a follow-up, the youthful workers were visited on the job. The project 
was headed by Barry Poxon. 


"THEO": Project 'THEO' , a volunteer training bureau that stands for: bens 
Helping Each Other, has been started at Verdun-LaSalle Y. Under the leader- 
ship of Linda Hoar, it will start by concentrating on such areas as child 
care, babysitting and other aspects of service. 


EMPLOIS POUR LA JEUNESSE: Le YMCA de Verdun-LaSalle a organisé un Service 
OL pour la Jeunesse, lequel a trouvé des emplois 4 plus de 400 jeunes 

durant 1'été dernier. Les participants ont regu un entrafnement, 4 savoir 

coment agir durant les entrevues, comment remplir des formules d' application 

et se comporter au travail. Dans plusieurs cas, par la suite, les jeunes 

travailleurs étaient visités sur les lieux de leur travail. le projet 

était dirigé par Barry Poxon. 


FOOD CO-OP. Verdun-LaSalle Branch's Jean Lipton is looking for people with 
experience in retailing, merchandising or handling of finances to participate 
in setting up a food co-op in Verdun. If you are interested, contact Jean 
at 769-2728. 


MAGASIN CO-OP: La Section de Jean Lipton 4 Verdun-LaSalle demande des gens 
avec experience dans le commerce de détail, promotion des ventes, ou manuten- 
tion des finances pour un magasin Co-Op établi & Verdun. Si vous &tes 
intéressés, contacter Jean 4 769-2728. 


INTERNATIONAL SCENE: Westmount YMCA's International Development Group is 
planning a mid-October dance to help raise funds to purchase motors for 
boats of fishermen in Tanzania. 


SPREADING THE WORD: The Cote St. Luc Community Project has put out a 
newsletter, "The Extended Family." Its aim is to share information and 
encourage participation in a wide range of activities. Scope and services 
of the project have been listed in brochure. Phone 487-5559 for your copy. 


For further information, Pour plus d'informations, 
please contact: veuillez-vous adresser a: 


Bill Sher 
849-5331, Local 742 


