Metropolitan Offices 
1441 Drummond Street 
Telephone 849-5331 


Young Men's Christian Association of Montreal 


NEWSLETTER 
October 31, 1968. 


METRO ANNUAL MEBTING: A capacity crowd of almost 170 turned 
out for the Metro annual meeting in Downtown Branch's Budge 
Hall on September 30. There were representatives of all age 
groups, including a number of teenagers. 


A sampling of feedback from those who were there was over-~ 
whelmingly favorable. The buffet was imaginatively arranged 
and appetizing, the program was varied and interesting, the 
speakers performed admirably--and the whole affair finished 
only about two minutes behind schedule. 


HE'S NOT SO TOUGH: Together with other members of DOWNTOWN BRANCH'S 
hys ed staff, Ebbe Marquardsen works mainly with and for adults. 
Some of the men, especially those in his advanced fitness classes, 
consider him as something of a martinet on the gym floor. But it's 


an entirely different story when it comes to youngsters. 


Ebbe, who also doubles as Downtown's Boys' Director, has boosted 
enrollment by introducing special courses in judo, wrestling and 
weight training for 9-14 year olds, and lowering the age minimum 
for learn-to-swim classes from 9 to 6. Currently, there are some 
250 youngsters participating in various phases of this program. 


THE PEANUTS SET: More than 100 youngsters have already 
joined Charlie Brown's Gang at LACHINE-DORVAL BRANCH. Devel- 
oped for ages 7 to 12, this program is designed to use the 
gym, crafts, movies and field trips to develop awareness 


and creativity. 


For teenagers, this branch is carrying on two vocational 
guidance projects. One is operated in local high schools. 
The other involves face-to-face question-and-answer sessions 
with senior executives. 


CHATEAGUAY'S board, committee members and program leaders 
will meet Saturday, November 2, for an all-day orientation 
seminar with six members of the Montreal YMCA's profess-— 
jonal staff. The program has been designed to actively 
involve all those attending in an examination of the Y's 
objectives and planning its role in the community. 


ADULTS AND PRE-TEENS MOVE IN: Faced by an upsurge in the popu- 
larity of ladies' activities, adult participation in VERDUN- 


olen 


LASALLE's range of programs is substeantinlly highor than last year. 
Biggest gainers are sewing, language and fitness classes, with a 
newly-introduced course in interior decorating also pemyed a real 
winner. 


Gains are also being reported in programs for 8-13 year olds, with 

Saturday morning fun clubs and Saturday afternoon judo classes the 

biggest attractions. A decline in in-building participation of 
teenagers has been offset by an increase in detached work prdgrams. 


Virtually all activities are carried out in both English and Freneh. 


WoW NORTH SHORE CENTRE: WEST ISLAND BRAICH'S North Shore Y 
has rented a house in Pierrefonds. It will serve as a drop- 
in lounge, guidance centre, coffee house, for dances and 

for courses. Guided by Geoff Anderson and Marion Hamill, 
teenagers from the community are helping ready the premises 
and develop programs. 


Another drop-in lounge, as well as the community's Civic 
Centre, are being operated by West Island staff members in 
Beaconsfield. Harley Smith and Gavin Turley are providing 
direction and front-line leadership. 


In Pointe Claire, the Y is co-operating with Cedar Park 
United Church in a program which digs into many concerns of 
today's parents. This project is a result of a phone call 
for information about sensitivity training. 


BIG JOB UNDERWAY: Work is well advanced on a top-to-bottom reno- 
vation of “ESTLOUNT BRANCII'S facilities. From residences to boiler 
room, the building is getting the full treatment--but not at the 
expense of programs. 


Participation in continuing education courses is well ahead of last 
year, with extra sections required in a number of classes. Final 
preparations are being made for a course in creative dramatics and, 
for children 11 and over, after-school instruction is being offered 
in guitar. 


Youth and adult judo classes are also becoming increasingly popular, 
as is the Ladies Slimnastics program, which provides a baby-sitting 
service. 


BIG JOB COMPLETED: Except for a few final touches, NDG 
BRANCH has completed its 13,000 program of re-decoration 
and renewal. It is operating seven days a week, with 


ahs 


Saturdays and Sundays devoted mainly to activities in which 
families can participate together. 


Attendance at NDG's ski fitness classes and ladies' condition- 
ing courses is booming. In the field of continuing education, 
Shaun Erb quickly filled two French classes and is now organ- 
izing a third one, 


Acting on a suggestion by Ross Thorpe, who was subsequently 
assisted to develop and supervise the project, Rosedale 

United Church has set up a coffee house in its basement. 

It is open Friday's from 7:30 p.m. to 10:30 o.m., and attracted 
30 teenagers on its first night. 


Incidentally, Ed Giles reports that the top man in NDG's 
100-Mile Club, L. Irany, has logged 900 miles since the start 
of the year. Four other members have passed the 400-mile 
mark. 


DETACHED WORK: Troubled by reports of youth unrest, juvenile 
delinquency and drug usage in their community, a group of Town of 
Mount Royal businessmen recently met with representatives of 
NORTHMOUNT BRANCH. Preliminary talks indicate they might be 
interested in helping find financing for a detached work program in 
the area. 


Meanwhile, Ed Fox continues to look for volunteers to maintain on- 
the-street contact with young people in Saint Laurent. The detached 
work program in this area slowed to a standstill several weeks ago, 
when funds ran out and the municipality's administration announced 
it could not provide financing at this time. 


OUT—~OF-BRANCH:IN-BRANCH: INTERNATIONAL BRANCH'S Bill Meis 

is developing a program to involve some 50 pre-teens and teen- 
agers in co-operative in-branch activities. Initial contact 
with many of these young people was made on the streets or 

in youth hangouts. The groups include many individuals who 
had previously; been involved with the YMCA, as well as some 
school drop-outs, members of motorcycle gangs, juvenile 
delinquents and products of underprivileged environments. 
Leaders are being developed from among the ranks of the 

young people. 


Positive steps have also been taken to strengthen Inter- 
national's language program. This now offers seven levels 
of classes in English and four in French. Teaching methods 
and the curriculum have been updated, and a comprehensive 
system of oral testing developed to ensure students ar 
placed at the appropriate level. 


For further information please contact: Bill Sher 
Public Relations Director 
849-5331 Loc. 742 


