Metropolitan Offices 
1441 Drummond Street 
Telephone 849-5331 


Montréal Communiqué 


March 24, 1971 


For release at will 


Two chilling tales of human misery were related 
Wednes¢ay te illustrate one of the lesser-known aspects 
of the Ice work in the Mile ad West section of Montreal. 

“These stories may sound like something out of Charles 
Dickens, but they happen everyday, right here in our city,” 
emphasized Kerry Johnston, co-ordinator of ¥ activities in 
this largely immigrant district. 

In Mile ind Y efforts here now involve some 10,000 
immigrants in a realistic confrontation with such vital issues 
as housing, education, human rights and responsibilities, 
welfare of children and personal development. 

To help demonstrate the urgency ef this program, Johns ton 
cited instances of abysmal suffering frequently resulting from 
attempts to survive. 


For further information 

please contact: Bill Sher, 
Public Relations Are ter, 
uc of Montreal, 
849-5331 


REMARKS BY KERRY JOHNSTON, CO-ORDINATOR OF 
THE MONTREAL YMGA MILE ENO WEST PROJECT, 
WEONESOAY, MARCH 24, 1971. 


Sefore | explain the Mile End West Project 1 would like te take 
sometine to present to you two cases we have come in contact with 
recently. The cases are not exceptional in our comaunity but they 
will serve te convey te you the conditions under which people sre 


forced to survive. 


The first case involves: 

~ family of four whe live in a basement apartment of 
four reems fer which they pay $65.00 a month. 

+ heating is provided by a coal-burning stove. 

~ the father, unemployed since last August, is now 
forced te walk with @ cane, the result of a bad 
fall during the winter. 

~ the mother who has just been released from hospital. 

- she awoke one morning in Yecember to find that her 
liebs were completely paralyzed. 

~ diagnosis indicated that she had s severe infection 
the result of badly decayed teeth. 


— the woman cannot afford to visit a dentist and knowing 
ef no other means te receive the necessary treateent 
she hee suffered for six months. As a result her 
intestines are decaying. 

+ released from hospital, she has been given medication, 
which she cannot afford on the $200.00 a sonth the 
family exiets on, and teld te get plenty of rest - 
an impossibility in a 4 room spertment with two children 
and an unemployed husband. 


The children of this home are frightened and pale, the 
mother is partly parelysed and decaying, the father is 
nervous, depressed. Yet there is still the spark of 
strength + the house is clean, the mother with great 
pain sews for her children. 


The second case! 

~ family of five, 570.00 fer basement apartment. 

- man of the house had fallen inte trep of opening his 
own business. 

~ it failed, he lost everything. 

= began working 70-80 hours « week to clear himself of 
debt. (Cultural values - to fail at business, to 
secure debts is to be ridiculed) 

~ wife noticed he more and nore frequently spoke of 


evicide. 


~ he became convinced that the total community was 
laughing at hia 

~ he couldn't sleep and begen to drink. 

~ wife took him to several hospitels, cool reception 
(too busy, nothing 1 can do, etc.) gave him pills, 
sent him home. 

~ The Allen Memorial was the last place to be visited. 
Same treatment, no beds available, can't get you inate 
Yerdun, too busy. 

~ gave him pills, sent hie home. 

~ that night he attacked his wife with a knife. 

- ene wound punctured her lungs, the other severed the 


nerves in her erm. 


U 


after two operations the nerve is still paralyzed. 
husband arrested and after six weeks brought before 
the court where he was declared temporarily insane, 
and transferred to the Youglas. 

~ finally released and returned to Greece where he is 


U 


now under psychietric care. 

- meanwhile his wife whe cannot continue her trade in the 
garment industry lives on vel fere. lech month she pays 
her husband's bills and ekes out living on the remainder. 

~ the children, who witnessed the attack, are extremely 


pale, nervous and tense. 


3. 


Be 


The first family have been here for 14 years, the second nine. 
They are not freeloaders, the idiots or the revolutionaries 

that some self-appointed spokesmen for this ethnic group 

would have you believe. They are people whe tore themselves 

from their rural homes and travelled a hundred years or sore 

in terms of societal progress. They are people whe are willing 
to accept that life will be difficult for them and that they will 
be strangers in an alien land in the bellef thet their sacrifice 
will pay off in terms of a better life for their children. 


Yet more and more frequently they are questioning whether or not 
our society is concerned. How does one accept the hardships 
when one perceives that for most of the children in the srea 
school ends in grade 8 or 9 That local schools are inferior 
and that in all probability your children will suffer as you 

ere doing. To project your dreams beyond your children te 
grandchildren that perhape do not yet exist is difficult when 
one is caught in a daily struggle for survival. 


In brief, but in a real sense, these are the conditions that 

have forced the International F te chenge its focus. And 

these are the conditions which the steff of the Mile ind West 
Project ere actively assisting local citizens attempt to elleviate. 


