GRAND MONTREAL 


News Release 


For immediate release 


Consultation process at Park Avenue YMCA 
leads to a solution that is viable for all parties 


(Montréal, March 19, 2007) — At a press conference today Du Parc YMCA management 
announced its decision to install clear windows with blinds in fitness room 2B. “We believe that 
this solution is viable for everyone, and our decision is final,” said Du Parc YMCA manager 
Serge Saint-André. 


The Park Avenue centre’s management reached this conclusion through a consultation 
process. Given the unusual circumstances, Du Parc YMCA management first polled its 
membership to determine their opinion and test a few possible solutions. It also consulted 
some of its partners, as well as interested volunteers. The findings were then discussed with 
the Local Advisory Committee (LAC), which is made up of volunteers from the community 
where the YMCA is located, including members, non-members, participants, residents, and 
representatives of partner organizations. Its role is to provide consultation and represent the 
community to YMCA management. The LAC finally submitted a recommendation along the 
same lines as the poll results. 


Du Parc YMCA hired ADHOC Recherche to design the questionnaire and brought in the firm 
BIP to administer the poll. The poll’ was conducted from February 17 to 28, and involved 302 
members. “The poll told us that installing clear windows with blinds controlled by users of the 
room was deemed to be a somewhat satisfactory or very satisfactory solution by 72% of 
respondents,” Mr. Saint-André noted. 


It is important to specify that installation of frosted windows in fitness room 2B is actually not a 
case of reasonable compromise, but is instead an example of good neighbourly relations. 
Moreover, the poll findings show that 85% of respondents believe that Du Parc YMCA acted in 
good faith in making this decision. In addition, 78% of them feel that Du Parc YMCA takes a 
balanced approach in reacting to various requests from the entire community. 


Du Parc YMCA management also took care to notify its immediate neighbours of the decision. 
“We discussed the situation with representatives of the Hassidic Jewish community. We feel 
confident that our decision is the best one possible under present circumstances,” Mr Saint- 
André added. 


“All YMCA of Greater Montréal centres are involved in their communities, and must field 
different kinds of requests from their neighbouring communities every day,” added YMCA 
Communication Director Marie-Josée Meilleur. The YMCA is a meeting place of different 
communities, dedicated to finding solutions so they can get along better. This is part of our 
mission. The many requests we receive always are and always will be treated with diligence 


" Margin of error : 5 % 19/20 


and respect. However, the YMCA of Greater Montréal will build on this experience to improve 
its guidelines for the handling of future requests.” 


Facts of the Case 


e The decision to put blinds on the windows in room 2B was made 12 years ago; 

e At the time, the YMCA had received several requests from the Hassidic Jewish 
community to block its view of the fitness room; 

e After several discussions with the Local Advisory Committee at the time, the decision 
was made to install blinds; 

e In March 2006, the broken blinds needed replacement; 

e After consulting informally with of a few users of the room, some of whom wanted to 
keep the blinds for the privacy they afforded, the management had frosted windows 
installed because this kind of window lets in light, and is also safe and more durable 
than blinds; 

e In November 2006, a petition was filed at Du Parc YMCA requesting that the frosted 
windows be removed; 

e Du Parc YMCA then decided to poll a representative sample of its membership, and 
asked the Local Advisory Commitee to submit a recommendation. 


Through its physical fitness and community programs, the YMCA of Greater Montreal seeks to 
develop a positive, friendly atmosphere where everyone can find opportunities for self- 
development. It cultivates values of respect and accessibility, and all its initiatives are 
designed to promote inclusiveness. For example, children with special needs (autistic, 
epileptic, physical or mentally handicapped) are accepted in its day camps because the 
YMCA believes in integration. Access to the gyms is reserved for the use of youth from the 
local neighbourhood free-of-charge at peak hours because the YMCA believes that it is 
important for these young people to have a place where they can gather and socialize. 
Resources permitting, the YMCA provides financial support to underprivileged members 
through its Equal Access Policy because it believes in open access to all services. 


About the YMCA of Greater Montreal (www.ymcamontreal.qc.ca) 


The YMCA of Greater Montreal, the first YMCA in North America, was founded in November 
1851. The mission of this charitable organization is to develop the full potential of individuals 
in body, mind and spirit and to foster self-reliance in persons, families and communities. Its 
ten centres are visited every year by close to 150,000 people who benefit from its many 
programs ranging from community, international and child development to language courses 
and physical fitness programs. The YMCA of Greater Montreal is a member of the Canadian 
network of 60 YMCA associations. 


- 30 - 
SOURCE: YMCA OF GREATER MONTREAL 
Information: Katia Bouchard 


Morin Public Relations 
Cellular: 514-912-1838 


