Metropolitan Offices 
1441 Drummond Street 
Telephone 849-5331 


Young Men’s Christian Association of Montreal 


FOR RELEASE 

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1969 
AFTER 8:00 P.M. 
APPROXIMATELY 300 WORDS 


YMCA BARES PROGRAM NEEDS 


Key areas in which resources are being deployed to meet some of today's 
more urgent human needs were outlined Monday evening at a rally of leaders of 
the Montreal YMCA's 1969 financial campaign. 

The fund drive, to run March 3-17, has an objective of $375,000, 

“With most of our adult programs paying their own way, we are more than 
82% self-sustaining," emphasized R.G, Rogers, General Secretary of the Montreal 
YMCA. “It is our work with young people which requires financial backing." 

He noted that outreach prograns, for example, are completely subsidized 
with special funds, "Whether it be social activities within our own facilities, 
operation of a drop-in centre or work in the streets or a shopping centre, the 
costs are exceedingly high." 

The objective of the YMCA workers engaged in such activities is to make 
contact with young people, help them identify concerns, guide their search for 
meaning and participate in the development of co-operative solutions, 

"We can identify right now where 10 additional workers are needed,” 
says Mr, Rogers, 

Complementing this work are the Y's efforts to develop more real ways 
to bridge the generation gap and provide young people with alternatives which 
encourage self-development and the exercise of constructive initiative, 


MOTC .cecee 


a~2— 


"In helping prepare pre-teens for adolescence and teenagers for adulthood, 
we also try to provide them with experiences that enjoyably promote development 
and will become cherished memories in later years, commented the YMCA executive. 

He also outlined some of the ways the YMCA helps promote family unity. 

These include some programs which provide parents and children with op- 
portunities to enjoy at least part of their leisure time together, and others 
which help people of all ages to understand and cope with change and the pressures 
of modern day living. 

“As a logical follow-up, we plan to broaden our counselling service to 
cover personal, vocational and family problems of individuals ad groups of all 
ages." 

New ways are also being explored to promote harmony and understam ding 
between Quebec's two main language groups through the development of co-operative 
projects and by fostering an environment in which individuals of all faiths and 
ethnic backgrounds will feel genuinely welcome. 

Work with new Canadians is also being expanded, especially in run down 
regions of the city. Here, YMCA workers initiate self-help projects, explain 
the rights and responsibilities of citizens, and prepare newcomers for economic 
and cultural opportunities. 


=<30nn 


For further information please contact: Bill Sher 
849-5331 Loc, 742 


