a 
a 


SGWU ANNOUNCES NEW 


FROM THE INFORMATION OFFICE 
Vie h-O131 Local 130 
GERALD WRIGHT DIRECTOR 


CENTER FOR HUMAN RELATIONS 
AND COMMUNITY STUDIES 


METROPOLITAN YMCA 
OF MONTREAL 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS 
UNIVERSITY AND SCHOOLS 


August 430th, 1963 


Sir George Williams University has announced the creation of a 
Center for Human Relations and Community Studies. The new research 
center, to begin work in September, wil! make the latest research 
and information in the field of Applied Social Sciences available 
to public and private organizations serving the fields of health, 
recreation, general education, religious education, and welfare in 


Montreal. 


Dr. Hedley Dimock has been appointed Chairman of the Department of 
Applied Social Sciences and Director of the Center. In announcing 
the establishment of the Center, Principal R. C. Rae stated it was 
hoped that community organizations would consult the University's 
resources on their special research needs and organization problems, 
such as inservice, professional education, training programs for 


volunteer l!eaders, and urban community studies. 


Several! study and consultation projects are tentatively planned 
for this Fall. The Registered Nurses Association of Ontario and 
the YMCA of Hamilton wii! receive heip in the design of training 
programs for their staff. The Center is now planning to undertake 
a study of the inter-personal relations and problems of mothers in 


modern suburbia. 


At present there are 90 students at Sir George Williams University 
studying the applied social! sciences. There are h5 students pro- 


ceeding fo professiona! careers in the YMCA and 40 students studying 


— 2 


for careers in the Boys! Clubs of Canada. The Center will make 
available opportunities for them to gain laboratory experience on 


research projects undertaken by the Center. 


In discussing some of the needs the Center hopes to fulfill, 

Dr. Dimock stated that "with all the rapid change taking place 

in our modern urban living, fhere is a continuing need for com- 
munity-serving organizations to understand changing patterns of 
family life and their effect upon children, teenagers, young adults, 
and parents. Youngsters, for example, are dating earlier and 
going steady at !12 and 14% years old. We need to learn how to cope 
with a new generation who are facing the impact of the mobility 
provided by the automobile, the love images of TV, easy access of 
alcohol, and a new standard of moral behaviour. In the United 
States and Canada, there is increasing unemployment in fhe teen- 
age group which is closely related to the increase in school! drop- 


outs," 


The Center also hopes to undertake studies in the field of human 
relations and group life. Dr. Dimock stated that "there is a need 
to help people in organization iife develop skills to cope with 
"the organization" so that their individual initiative is not 
smothered. Decisions that used to be made by individuals, now are 
made by committees and this kind of group decision process is some- 
thing that the organization and the individual both need to learn 
more about. 


> 30° = 


