Editorial Communications Canada Limited 


A subsidiary of The Creative Communications Group Limited 


February 16, 1968. 


The Dilemma of Young People--their anxieties and 
frustrations, their search for meaning, identity and 
truth--remains a top-priority concern of the Montreal 
YMCA. 


Increased involvement with drugs, the distressing lack 
of communications between generations and the conflict 
with the Establishment are just a few of the indications 
of the gravity of the problem. 


As you may already know, all YMCAs in Greater Montreal 
recently completed an in-depth survey to determine the 
most pressing needs of the communities they serve. 


The objective of this research, which also involved a, 
critical self-examination, was to ensure the YMCA 
remains a relevant and vital movement, in close touch 
with contemporary problems of people. 


The survey confirmed that never before have humans of 
all ages--collectively and individually--been subjected 
to so many and such complex pressures. It also pin- 
pointed a number of emerging but vitally-important 
challenges for the YMCA. 


The enclosed notes cover some current concerns of the 
YMCA, and activities that have been planned or under- 
taken to resolve them. No attempt has been made to 
trace the history of the Montreal YMCA which, when 
founded 116 years ago, was the first YMCA in North 
America. 


I feel certain there is a worthwhile story here for 
you, and would be pleased to provide any additional 
background or specific information you might require. 


Any editorial support you may provide will be greatly 
appreciated. 


s + 2065 Sun Life Building, Montreal 2, P.Q. — 861-9274 
William Sher 


Approximately 1400 words 
For: Montreal YMCA 


From: Editorial Communications Canada Limited 
2065 Sun Life Building 
Montreal, Quebec 
Tel. 861-9274 


Contact: William Sher 


YMCA SEEKING CO-OPERATIVE WAYS 
TO MEET EMERGING AND VITAL NEEDS 


Support of all kinds is being offered the Montreal YMCA in its multi- 
front drive’ to pin-point and provide real answers to many of the more 


troublesome problems disrupting society today. 


Dr. Wilder Penfield, world-renowned neuro-surgeon, practical humanitarian 
and president of the Vanier Institute of the Family, offers this 


encouragement: 


"More power to the Young Men's Christian Association of Montreal. The 
most urgent cause in our society today is to help Canadians to build 
a stronger, more successful family life. The YMCA contributes strength 


to this cause in a way that only a YMCA can." 


Monseignor Paul Grégoire, Auxiliary Bishop of Montreal, is equally 
outspoken. "I rejoice at the excellent work accomplished by your 
Association in the development of personal values and sense of 


responsibility," he says. 


"We have noticed with pleasure the ecumenical orientation your association 
has adopted. The respect of persons, of their religious convictions 
and of their cultural affinities cannot but engender harmony and peace," 


he concludes. 


R.G. Rogers, assistant general secretary of the Montreal YMCA, sums it 


up this way: 


Continued 


<= 


"We feel that by truly welcoming people of all faiths and languages-- 
of all ages--we can help create an environment in which they can share 


mutual concerns and learn to understand and respect their differences." 


The changing problems of young people--from pre-teenagers to many in 
their early 20s--will also continue to be a top concern of the Montreal 
YMCA, 


"The existence of our eight branches and three camps is justified only 
so long as they continue to serve real needs. Operating within the 
broad framework of the Montreal Y, their task is to maintain programs 
and provide services that are relevant to the times," comments Mr. 


Rogers. 


The Montreal YMCA has four full-facility branches, four community branches, 
a children's resident camp, a resident camp for young adults and a family 


day camp. 


Each of the full facility branches--DOWNTOWN, INTERNATIONAL, NDG and 
WESTMOUNT--has a gymnasium for team sports and group workouts, a swimming 
pool, space for club groups and rooms for continuing education programs. 


Some also have living accomodations, handball courts, squash courts. 


It is the full-facility branches which best fit the most popular 
conception of a YMCA facility. They are in marked contrast to the 
fledgling Y operation started recently in the South Shore Community of 


Chateauguay in a $10-a-month basement office. 


LACHINE-DORVAL, NORTHMOUNT, VERDUN-LASALLE and WEST ISLAND Ys--the 
community branches--also operate without many of the facilities 


generally considered hallmarks of a YMCA, 


Many of their traditional activities, such as aquatics training and 
physical education programs, are carried on in community and school 
swimming pools, school gymnasiums and civic recreation centres, church 


halls and private homes. 


Continued 


he 


"But no matter what kind of branch, or where it's located, it's 
people who make the Y, not buildings and equipment," emphasizes Mr. 


Rogers. 


"The faces change from home to home, from community to community. 
They reflect different aspirations, different needs, different 
concerns. Not all of these are pertinent to every branch, but many 


of them are, increasingly, becoming interrelated." 


Current main concerns of the Montreal YMCA include: 


The widening communications gap between parents 


and children; 


The increase in the number of young people who 
seem to be attacking society, or withdrawing 


Erom it) 
The causes of family breakdowns; 


An upsurge in juvenile delinquency in the 


metropolitan area; 


A dramatically disturbing increase in the use of 
drugs by young people, particularly among 13-14 
year olds; 

Growing tendencies of all age groups to permit 


leisure time to become more of a liability than 
an asset; 
The artificial barriers separating Quebec's two 


main ethnic groups. 


NORTHMOUNT YMCA, for example, has started a program for a group of 
Town of Mount Royal mothers who are anxious to gain a deeper insight 


into their role in a fast-changing world. 


Continued 


wells: 


At the other end of the spectrum there is the community served by 
INTERNATIONAL BRANCH, 


"Here, the main conerns are poverty, unemployment and a high 


percentage of school drop-outs," notes Mr. Rogers. "Many of these 
living in this district are newly-arrived immigrants to Canada. A 
top objective is to help these future citizens adjust to their adopted 


homeland and learn its languages." 


At NDG-Y, the emphasis has shifted from recreational athletics to 
the restless floundering of young people and their seeming lack of 


purpose and rebelliousness. 


While continuing informal education courses and programs to develop 
initiative, leadership and physical fitness, this branch is also 
introducing a number of new activities for older youth and young 
adults. 


WESTMOUNT Y is also preparing to shoulder responsibilities in a number 
of new and vitally-important fields. In becoming more deeply involved 
in the affairs of the community it serves, this branch is straining to 


answer the increasing number of requests for assistance by other groups. 


Top concerns of Westmount Y include the marked increase in anti-social 
or delinquent behavior of juveniles and a strengthening of the forces 


impersonalizing relationships and threatening family life. 


None of the branches are satisfied now to provide only physical 


activities. 


WEST ISLAND Y is also mustering its resources to meet new challenges. 
This largest suburban YMCA in Canada serves the fast-growing North 


Shore and West Island communities of Greater Montreal. 


Planning ahead for further growth, it too is taking steps to provide: 
more guidance and counsel to teenagers; more programs to strengthen 
family relationships; more encouragement and training for volunteer 


leaders, 
Continued 


aSm 


DOWNTOWN YMCA, in the heart of Montreal's bustling business and 
entertainment district, has one of the most comprehensive range of 


programs available anywhere. 


In addition to physical education, sports and continuing education 
courses, Downtown Y has launched a number of pilot programs. Here 
too, the emphasis is on troubled teenagers and young adults, and 


on co-operative work with other community organizations. 


Major emphasis of VERDUN-LASALLE YMCA continues on teenagers, but 

more and more programs have been developed for pre-schoolers, adults 

and businessmen, Most of these are carried on in both English and 
French, and the branch hopes to expand its activities to include programs 


for elderly people. 


LACHINE-DORVAL YMCA's concerns are similar in many ways to those of 
Verdun-LaSalle Branch. Both are expanding their counselling services 


and initiating joint community projects with other associations. 
LACHINE-DORVAL also provides assistance to the newly-formed CHATEAUGUAY Y. 


Most branches have also initiated an out-of-building and on-the-street 
program with the growing number of young people who avoid any sort of 


relationship with adults or any contact with established institutions. 


"Being a good listener is one of the prime attributes of those involved 
in this work," observes Mr. Rogers. "Our field workers don't try to 
force these disassociated young people to accept society as-is. Many 
are disillusioned, with some justification. Only by demonstrating, 
repeatedly, that we are truly interested in their ideas and opinions 


can we expect them to share with us their hopes, fears and aspirations." 
Mr. Rogers emphasizes that the Y is not trying to "go-it alone". 


"We are eager to co-operate wholeheartedly with any community 
organization, The co-operative approach to meet community needs-of 
organizations working together-is without a doubt the best course of 
action. Our resources, our experience and our facilities are at the 


Continued 


disposal of everyone. We have already formed a number of liaisons 


with various groups and associations, and are looking for others." 


The field of leisure time activities, for example, is providing 
an increasing number of opportunities for warm co-operation 
between different ethnic and language groups, particularly the 


English and French people in this province. 


Together with the Allied Jewish Community services of Montreal, 
the Federation of Catholic Charities and United Red Feather, the 
Montreal YMCA recently joined the newly-formed Association of 


Leisure Time Services of Quebec. 


This group will work closely with two French-language associations: 
Service Régional des Loisirs de Montréal and Conféderation des 


Loisirs du Québec. 


Another little-known aspect of the YMCA is its World Service Program. 
These are designed to help people in emerging nations achieve THEIR 


objectives by giving them a hand up instead of a hand-out. 


"To fulfill our growing responsibilities, we are consciously building 


in a greater degree of flexibility than ever before," comments Mr. 


Rogers. 
"This means we must cultivate the ability to recognize when traditionally 
successful programs are outmoded, and encourage willingness to 


drastically revise or discard them for something more relevant," he 


emphasizes. 


a Silas 


February 16, 1968. 


