NEWS 


FROM THE MONTREAL YMCA 


1441 DRUMMOND ST., MONTREAL 
TELEPHONE 849-5331, EXT. 57 


November. 13, 196). 


FOR Immediate Release 


NQRTHMOUNT YMCA WEEK#END LEADERSHIP SEMINAR 
rena einem es anti ra 


The nature and role of the Northmount YMCA in the communities it serves 
is the concern of a week-end leadership seminar to take place November 20-22 at 


Far Hills Inn, Val Morin, Quebec. 


The three day seminar will be attended by some 36 Northmount YMCA 
leaders representing Board of Management, Committees, Area Councils, Youth 
Councils, other volunteer leaders and staff members. It has a twofold purpose -- 
-- to help leaders develop a better understanding of the 'Y! Branch they support 
and to provide a creative atmosphere in which to consider how the Association 


can be more effective, 


Small discussion groups dealing with specific and real concerns will 
meet in an informal and relaxed atmosphere, providing an important opportunity 


for the participants to get to know one another better. Members of the Montreal 


YMCA Metropolitan staff and YMCA National Council staff will act as-facilitators 
in the discussion groups. 


Topics of discussion will include objectives of the Northmount Young 
Men's Christian Association, priorities in programming, roles of leaders and 
staff and who should the 'Y! serve, The seminar will also be asked to give 
careful study to ways of making the Association more effective in the community 


cocccee (MRE) 


aan 
NORTHMOUNT YMCA WEEK-END LEADERSHIP SEMINAR cont'd 


through -- -~ interpretation of the YMCA purpose in program -- -- better under= 


standing between youth and adult leaders. 


One of the most interesting facets about the Northmount seminar is 
that it brings together youth and adult leaders to discuss mutual concerns on 
an equal basis, It is in this sense that the seminar is unique and is recognized 


as a "pilot project". 


The Northmount YMCA is one of eight branches of the Montreal YMCA and 
serves principally the communities of Town of Mount Royal, St. Laurent, Cartier- 
ville, Saraguay, Roxboro, Dollard des Ormeaux, and East and Central Pierrefonds. 
The Branch headquarters, which include offices for staff, meeting and club rooms, 
and limited recreational facilities, is located at 155 Rochon Street in 


St. Laurent. 


Through the utilization of facilities available through the cooperation 
of other community organizations the Northmount YMCA is able to offer a wide 


range of program -- -= from learn -to-swim classes to Youth Councils. 


» 30 « 


From: Harry E. Thomas, 
Public Relations Secretary 


