Metropolitan Offices 
1441 Drummond Street 
Telephone 849-5331 


Montréal Communique 


November 28th, 1973. 


NORTHWESTERN AUCTION: CBC Sportscaster Bob McDevitt will wield the 
gavel at a handicrafts auction sale to be held Saturday, December 8, 
2:00-5:00 p.m., in Northwestern Branch. Proceeds will help finance 

a domestic arts and agricultural training centre for girls in Sri Lanka 
(formerly Ceylon). 


IMMIGRATION POLICY: The Federal Government has asked the YMCA's of 
Canada to suggest items for consideration in formulating a new im- 
migration policy for this country. Rick Patten, Montreal YMCA Director 
of International Programs, is working with a special task force on a 
submission here, 


POLITIQUE D'IMMIGRATION: Le Gouvernement Fédéral a demandé aux YMCA 
du Canada de suggerer des articles pour fin d'examen, dans le but de 
formuler une nouvelle politique d'inmigration pour le pays. Rick 
Patten, Directeur des programmes internationaux de la YMCA de Montréal, 
s'occupe présentement d'un groupe qui a préparé une soumission pour 
Montréal, 


WOMEN'S PROGRAMS BOOMING: Participation in women's physical education 
programs iS Up substantially at Westmount YMCA. To handle the increase, 
the branch has enlarged and re-decorated its Ladies locker room. The 
front lobby has also been re-tiled and several offices renovated. 


REGIONAL CONFERENCE: ‘'Communication, Co-operation & Commitment for 
the Future” will be the theme of a Regional Youth Conference to be 
held November 30 to December 2 at the Jesuit Retreat House in St. 
Jerame. Sixty-five anglophone and francophone representatives of 
Province of Quebec YMCAs and YWCAs are scheduled to participate in the 
conference. 


CONFERENCE REGIONALE: "Communication, coopération et engagement pour 
le futur" sera le theme d'une conférence régionale qui se tiendra du 

30 novembre au 2 décembre 4 la Maison de Retraite des Jésuites 4 Saint- 
Jéréme. Soixante-cing anglophones et francophones, représentants des 
YMCA et YWCA de la Province de Québec sont cédulés pour participer 4 
la conférence. 


IN THE WEST ISLAND AREA: Same 30 boys and girls in special education 
classes are involved in an after-school recreation programs developed 
by the West Island YMCA...About 120 youth and adults from Hudson and 
Rigaud are taking part in new aquatice, gymnastics and fitness programs 
operated in their communities by this branch...The physical education 
staff also expects soon to be operating special fitness classes for 
ladies over age 45. 


LOCAL INITIATIVES PROGRAMS: The YMCA is waiting for decisions on 
applications for L.I.P. funding for the six months starting December 5, 
1973, Some 25 community projects are involved. 


PROGRAMMES D'INITIATIVES LOCALES: La YMCA attend la décision en ce 
qui concerne la demande des fonds du P.I.L. couvrant 6 mois, commengant 
le 5 décembre 1973, Environ 25 projets conmunautaires sont concernés. 


CARDIAC VICTIM RESCUED: Ray Cohen, Director of the Y's Alternatives 
program, recently saved a 64-year old man whose pulse had been stopped 
by a heart attack which felled him in the street. After directing a 
policeman at the scene to start mouth-to-mouth resuscitation, Ray 
began to rhythmically pummel the victim's chest. The external heart 
Massage was Maintained until a pulse was restored. 


RUDY SPITALSKY IN HOUSTON: Downtown YMCA Residence Director, Rudy 
Spitalsky, is in Houston, Texas, this week attending the Annual Confe- 
rence of the Business Administration section of the Association of Pro- 
fessional Directors of the YMCAs of the U.S.A. One of the major items 
on the agenda will be related to YMCA Residence operations and how they 
can be improved on the North American continent. 


wanes: SON comes 


For further information, Pour plus d'informations, 
please contact: veuillez-vous adresser a: 


Bill Sher 
849-5331 (Local 742) 


/cb 


