« NEWS RELEASE / COMMUNIQUE DE PRESSE 


Editorial Communications Canada Limited 


A subsidiary of The Creative Communications Group Limited 


2065 Sun Life Building, Montreal 2, P.Q.— 861-9274 


Youth Rebellion, Institutionalism, Job Obsolescence, 
Biculturalism, Among Main YMCA Concerns 


SUBJECT / SUJET 


620 
WORD COUNT/ NOMBRE DE MOTS 


FOR/COMMUNIQUE AU Nom pe_YMCA of Montreal 


FOR PUBLICATION/PUBLIABLE _After 8:30 p.m. September 23, 1966 


POUR ecpr nee igh 
COMMUNIQUER AVE 
/CONTACT W. Sher 


we Rie 

Maurice F. Strong, President, National Council of YMCAs of 
Canada, said tonight that, with young people gaining an increasingly 
powerful voice in politics, the rebellion of large sections of the 
youth population against what they regard as society's established 
institutions cannot and should not be ignored. 

"Young people today are questioning the values and standards 
on which our society is based. They insist on testing these against 
their own reason and their own experience. They are not willing to 
accept the pat answers, the comfortable clichés and the smug dogmas of 
yesterday." 

Mr. Strong, the opening speaker at a seminar to re-evaluate 
Montreal YMCA policies and programs, reviewed many of the problems 


created by rapidly changing socio-economic conditions. 


Continued 


Pa ee 
The review was far-ranging,.touching on such contemporary 


topics as urbanization, increasing. institutionalism, occupational 
obsolescence, the increasing.role of young. people in society, 
biculturalism and the role of government. 

"The directions we take will have a significant influence... 
on the future of the total YMCA movement,'' he told delegates to the 
seminar. ‘Our decisions here will determine whether the Y will be in 
the forefront of today's changes or a reluctant rear guard." 

He urged delegates to recognize that, in the minds of many 
young people, the YMCA is considered a conformist association, instead 
of an instrument to eliminate social inequities and deficiencies. 

"We must expose ourselves to these criticisms and ask ourselves 
searchingly and objectively the extent to which they may have some 
validity." 


Continued 


oi She 
Pointing to estimates that, within the next two decades, 


80% of the North American population will be compressed into a 
relatively small number of great metropolitan complexes, he said 
this will create new social, organization and institutional problems. 

"More and more our lives are being lived within, and affected 
by, larger and more complex institutions. We are educated by big 
institutions, we work in the big institutions of business life or 
government bureaucracy: many of our needs are provided by big 
institutions and much of our recreational and leisure time activities 
are carried on within an institutional environment," he stated. 

"One of the greatest challenges of our times," he declared, 
is to.create a dynamic and flexible institutionalism which enables 
fedteddaails to develop and express the best in themselves, rather than 
the cumbersome and stereotyped bureaucracy which smothers." 


Continued 


sail 

On the subject of occupational obsolescence, he emphasized 
that, as skills learned during an individual's youth may not be 
sufficient to enable him to earn a livelihood throughout his lifetime, 
education must be a continuing process. Helping prepare people to 
adjust to this fact should be an important Y objective. 

Mr. Strong also thinks the current confrontation of Canada's 
two main solitudes, which he considers the "greatest challenge ever to 
Canadian nationhood," as another opportunity for Y service. 

"We must,'' he urged, "become a medium through which English- 
speaking and French-speaking people develop significant meaningful 
communication with each other." 

Growing Government involvement in specialized aspects of 
education, social welfare and recreation will modify the need for many 
services formerly offered only by churches and voluntary organizations. 


Continued 


"In some cases the voluntary agency will become obsolete. 
In other cases it will have to occupy an increasingly narrow and 
specialized area of activity. And in still other cases, it will have 
an opportunity of multiplying its effectiveness by becoming the 
instrument through which Government resources are directed and applied." 
"Which of these results the YMCA will experience will depend 
upon the way in which we respond to the challenge implicit in the growth 
of Government involvement in areas in which we have tradionally been 


active. We must be prepared to take the initiative." 


« 20 = 


September 23, 1966 


