Metropolitan Offices 
1441 Drummond Street 
Telephone 849-5331 


Montréal Communique 


30. October, 1969, 


HELPING KEEP OPTIONS OPEN: Ways in which detached 
workers forge significant links between society and 
alienated young people were outlined at a Rotary Inter- 
national Convention by Al Whittal of the YMCA's outreach 
staff. 


"The detached worker can mingle freely and draw on his 
training to counsel or refer individuals to where they can 
obtain specialized assistance. He can also help them 
develop some form to their existence, find alternatives 
and provide that ever-essential listening ear." 


In discussing current efforts to control drug-taking, he 
suggested that moralistic lectures or attempts by Insuf- 
ficiently informed individuals to solve youth problems are 
usually either tuned out or laughed down by teenage users. 
Nor is it possible to legislate this practice out of 
existence, he insisted. 


While some authorities feel drugs may be helping tranquilize 
anarchists, others suggest they are making apathists out 

of many young idealists who would otherwise be sparking 
needed social change. 


INVOLVING SPECIALISTS: As noted by Al Whittal, 
linking up young people with specialists its an important 
function of the detached worker. The same experts are also 
called on to participate in continuing efforts to 
strengthen the capabilities and understanding of those 
engaged in this work. 


To help this development process, twenty members of 
Metro's Detached Unit recently spent two crowded weekends 
with a select group of authorities on different aspects of 
youth behavior. These included a Federal Crown Prosecutor, 
representatives of the RCMP and other police forces, a 
lawyer who specializes in youth offenders and several promi- 
nent psychiatrists. 


To further its search for understanding and answers, 
senior representatives of the Y will meet later this month 
with a group of the leading psychiatrists in the fleld of 
juvenile behavior. 

offs 


saan 


STREET WORK GAINING MOMENTUM: Dorval's city council has 
granted the YMCA $10,500 to finance detached work in their 
community until the end of 1970. The municipality is main- 
taining |iaison with the project through Councillor 

J. V. Ballance, head of its Public, Social and Welfare 
Commission. 


Lachine's administration has also authorized a grant of 
$1,500 to underwrite detached work until the end of this 
year. This municipality's council has, in addition, under- 
taken to study ways of financing such a program through 
1970. 


In addition to professional youth workers, efforts in both 
communities will involve citizens' committees and local 
service clubs, as well as civic administrators and police 
departments. 


NO-MAN'S LAND: The third floor of the 
Downtown YMCA Residence has been officially 
reserved for members of the fatr sex. Six 
young ladies, ftve of them students, have 
already moved in as permanent guests. 


Temporarily, at least, the floor has been 
declared off limits to males. But a pro- 
posal to provide a guest lounge there could 
change that ruling in the very near future. 


Stmilar factlities are also being readied on 
the student floors. 


MAKING WAVES IN LABRADOR: The Downtown Y's Aquatic Pro- 
gramme now extends as far northeast as Labrador. It all 


came about as the result of a phone call Milt D'Ganigian 
received from Wabush last March. 


Before he could flip his tank, the Downtown Aquatic director 
was visited by three members of the mining community who 
took a "Plunge" course in learning the various aspects of 
the branch's aquatic programme. 


Three months later, Milt was invited back to examine the 
newly-trained scuba class and also help organize a club. 

Not only did he find an above average group of students, but 
also an overall well-run aquatic programme, all directed by 
volunteers. 


At the moment, the swimming programme is the only source of 
organized recreation in the community. Milt feels it quite 
likely that the YMCA will be asked to help set up other pro- 
grammes. 

ots 


-3- 


LOOKING AHEAD: A leading industrialist witha 
long record of community service has been appointed 
Chairman of the Montreal YMCA's newly-formed Development 
Committee. He is J. D. Houlding, President of RCA Victor 
Ltd. The committee, which reports directly to the Metro- 
politan Board of Directors, has major responsibility for 
pinpointing emerging needs, formulating policy for meeting 
them and for the long term development of the Montreal 
Association. 


ENGLISH-FRENCH RELATIONSHIPS: As part of a drive to pro- 
mote two-way communication and understanding between 
Quebec's two major language groups, the Metropolitan YMCA 
has also formed a Francophone Advisory Committee. It is 
headed by M. Michel Chevalier, Director of the University 
of Montreal's Centre d'Urbanisme. 


SHORT TAKES: General Secretary Rix Rogers has 
started taking three French lessons a week . . . Metro 
Controller Ron Whittingham looking a bit more relaxed 
these days. His missus is back from the hospital after a 
three-week bout of pneumonia. . . Mac Singleton, former 
Executive Secretary of NDG Branch, reported happy and wel! 
in his new position in Ottawa . . . Ray Rouse recovering 
nicely from a broken arm. It was fractured during a role- 
playing session in detached work. 


For further information, please contact: 


Bill Sher 
1441 Drummond Street 
Telephone No. 849-5331. Loc. 742 


