Metropolitan Offices 
1441 Drummond Street 
Telephone 849-5331 


Montréal Communiqué 


Thursday, October 29, 1970 


HEADS yMCAS OF CANADA: Rix G. Rogers, general secretary of the 
Montreal YMCA, has been selected for the top YMCA staff post in the 
nation. His appointment as general secretary for the National Council 
of Canadian YMCAs becomes effective after January 1, 1971. 


Born in Fort Williams, he is 39, married and the father of five 
children. He holds B.A. and M.Sc. degrees, and has been staff assistant 
with Sir George Williams University’s Centre for Human Relations and 
a part-time member of the Fazulty of its Applied Social Sctences 
Department. 


Rix started his YMCA career in Toronto and also served in New 
York before taking over, in 1956, as executive secretary of the 
Montreal YMCA's Lakeshore (West Island) Branch. 


In 1963, he became co-ordinator of Program and Staff Development 
for Greater Montreal and, twe years later, was appointed assistant 
general secretary. He was named general secretery of the Montreal 
YMCA in 1968. 


WAR ON TENSION: Natural techniques that help ease the pangs of 
childbirth have been adapted by the Northwestern (NDG) YMCA ana 
incorporated into a ‘Conditioning by Relaxation’ course for men. 


Participants will be trained to control individual muscle 
groups to relieve nervous tension. In doing so, they will also 
improve overall muscle tone. 


Classes will start November 3, on Tuesdays and Thursdays, 
12:30-1:15 p.m. 


KEY CAMPAIGN LEADERS: Frank B. Peterson, president of Montreal 
Shipping, will be general chairman of the Montreal YMCA's 1971 
financial campaign. It will run March 8-20, with a city-wide 
Objective of $400,000. 


Special names portion of the drive will be headed by B.A. 
Thompson, president of Dominion Glass. Pierre Delagrave, vice- 
president, Employee and Public Relations, Domtar, will be vice- 
chairman in charge of divisions. 


G. Arnold Hart, chairman of the Bank of Montreal, will serve 
as honorary chairman. 


cece eMOLKre 


win 


RUN-A~FUND: John Zlatuschka, building superintendant of the 
Northwestern (NDG) and Westmount YMCAs, was the top money earner 
in a 10-hour non-stop Run-a-Fund hela last Saturday in Alexis 
Nihon Plaza. 


Sponsored by groups from both branches, at 10-50 cents a 
mile, he jogged 10 consecutive miles for a total of $129.50. 


Objective of the run was to win financial hacking for the 
Montreal YMCA's work in Guyana, South America. It attracted 
participants of all ages from Northwestern, Verdun-LaSalle, West 
Island and Westmount Branches. 


A WORKING PARTNERSHIP: Progress of Montreal-~backed efforts to develop 
an association that will be self-determining, self-supporting and 
self-perpetuating were outlined recently by Lloyd Hinds, National 
Secretary of the YMCAs of Guyana. 


“We feel that our pertnership with the Montreal YMCA is 
evolving into a relationship that could serve as a model for 
providing leadership to the growth of developing nations,” he said. 


JOBS AND PROGRAMS: Some 32,000 different persons of all ages were 
tnvolved this past summer in Montreal YMCA activities. Street 
work and aquatie programs, day camps and resident camps. back- 
alley programs--together, they provided summer employment for a 
total of 375 students. 


SHAPE--UP: The ‘what’, ‘hows' and 'whys' of physical education 
will be examined in depth by YMCA staffers from across Canada at 
an upcoming training workshop. Its purposes are summed up by its 
title: SHAPE--uUP: Symposium for the Human Application of Physical 
Education~-Upgrading Process. 


s3hi< 


For further information please contact: Bill Sher 
849-5331 


