Metropolitan Offices 
1441 Drummond Street 
Telephone 849-5331 


Young Men's Christian Association of Montreal 


For release:Friday,Sept.20,after 2:00 p-m. 


INTERDEPENDENCE SEEN KEY 
TO RESOLVING YOUTH UNREST. 


A prominent youth worker estimates there are now 
in Canada between 500,000 and 1,000,000 young people who 
are disaffected with society and its institutions. 

"Pre-occupied with militant activists, we sometimes 
overlook the far greater numbers who take drugs, leave 
school, run away from homes, or just withdraw behind 
indifferent masks of apathy", deplored Ray Rouse of the 
Montreal YMCA's Program and Field Service staff. 

Mr Rouse, who this summer spent a tense four 
months supervising a potentially explosive emergency 
program in Montreal's inner city, feels that inadequate 
communication - - either way - - is a root source of 
the problem. 

During that time, he and his associates were 
involved in placing individuals in jobs, and finding 
medical or psychiatric attention for those suffering from 
malnutrition, VD, hepatitis, other common diseases or 
emotional problems. 

"We helped pregnant girls find assistance, tried to 
re-direct disillusioned youngsters, sought to find 
creative and healthy ways in which individuals could 
express themselves, 'talked-down' drug users, reasoned 
with the militants, and generally worked to promote 


constructive dialogue," said Mr. Rouse. tas 


For release: Friday, Sept.20, after 2:00 p.m. - 2 


"Many of these alienated young people see 
organized society as conservative, ultra-materialistic, 
impersonal,.non-caring for the individual and apathetic 


towards social issues of the day," he reported. 

"They regard businessmen as people to be 
mistrusted, dogmatic, difficult to change, insecure in 
many ways, cloistered and not really aware of what is 
going on in the world", he told a Canadian Potato Chip 
Luncheon in the Queen Elizabeth Hotel. 

He emphasized the impossibility of trying to close 
the communications gap by encouraging 'sameness', and 
rejected policies which try to isolate different groups. 

"About the only way now open is to make everyone 
aware of their inter-dependence, '-meesiggested. ‘. 
"But for this to work individuality and conflict over 
differences would have to be viewed as creative, helpful 


and contributing positively to the development of sound 


relationships and trust between people.” 


For further information, please contact: 


Bill Sher 
849-5331 


September 19,1968 


