Metropolitan Offices 
1441 Drummond Street 
Telephone 849-5331 


Montréal Communique 


28th January 1971 


THE BIG BOOT: George Springate, Liberal MNA for Ste. Anne's 
and placement specialist of the football Alouettes, will be 
the key speaker, Wednesday, February 24 at the pre-kick off 
dinner for the Montreal YMCA 1971 financial campaign. 


The campaign, to run March 8-20, has a city-wide objective 

of $400,000. Proceeds will help support programs and activities 
that cope with urgent problems which would be self-perpetuating 
if ignored. 


SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT CLINIC: A bilingual youth centre fs now belng 
operated In Lachine-Dorval YMCA. Y street workers and a diver- 
sified group of volunteer professionsals are providing medical 
and psychiatric assistance, legal aid and help with personal, 
group and family problems. 


The staff of medical volunteers consists of a gynecologist, 
a psychiatrist, a general practitioner, several nurses and 

a pharmacist. There are also a lawyer, a priest, a number of 
social workers and school counséllogs. 


SINKING THE NAVY: Ex-matelot, Len Boucher, now physical 
education director at Verdun-LaSalle YMCA, led a group of 
fellow Y staffers to an 8-4 hockey victory over a team from the 
Ville LaSalle naval depot. 


WEST ISLAND FITNESS CENTRE: A comprehensive fitness and health 
centre is expected to be in operation in West Island Y 

before April Ist. It will serve men and women, offer planned 
programs and contain the most up-to-date equipment and 
facilities. 


IMW_IN TROUBLE: Eleventh hour attempts are under way to rescue 

the Integrated Media Workshop. This project has been rechannel ling 
creative capabilities of alienated young people into the field of 
communication. Lack of funds may force it to be terminated. 


DAY CARE CENTRE: As part of the Y's Mile End West Project, a 
day-care centre is slated to open on Jeanne Mance Street near 
St. Viateur In a few weeks. The undertaking, to accomodate 47 
youngsters age 3-5, is supported by the Provincial government. 
It will serve children from low-income immigrant families. 


sne/f2 


— 2 


OVERCOMING HANDICAPS: Northwestern (NDG) Y's phys ed department 
has developed a "Recreational and Socialization" program 

for children with perceptual handicaps. These Include: 
difficulty in coordinating hands and eyes, visual interpretation 
and laterality. Work with an initial group of 20 youngsters, 

age 4-7, Is scheduled to start in about three weeks. 


MONTREAL YOUTH CLINIC BUSY: Caseload of the Montreal Youth Clinic 
on Ste. Famille Street now averages 600-700 a month. 

A demographic study now under way indicates that young people 
from all over Greater Montreal are currently availing themselves 
of its free medical and psychiatric services. Results of the 
Survey are expected to be released early in February. 


THE DRUG SCENE: A recent analysis shows that || staff members 
of the Y's Central Outreach Unit now spend 55-65 per cent 

of thelr time working with adolescents involved with problems 
related to drugs. Observation of activities in parks and 
playgrounds Indicates an increasing number of pre-teens are 
experimenting with drugs. 


THE Y_IN ACTION: Samplings of the Y in action are presented In 

a 10¢-minute audio-visual presentation, available in both 
English and French to service clubs, community organizations, 
citizen's committee, etc. For bookings, please call Miss Yolande 
Soucy at 849-5331, local 739, 


EASING CHILDBIRTH: In co-operation with the Victorian Order 

of Nurses, Verdun-LaSalle has started an exercise and discussion 
program to physically and psychologically prepare expectant 
mothers for childbirth. 


= 30 = 


For further information please 
contact Bill Sher: 849-533I1 ext. 742 


