Metropolitan Offices 
1441 Drummond Street 
Telephone 849-5331 


Montréal Communiqué 


For release at will 


YMCA STEPS UP TEMPO 
OF NATIONAL FITNESS DRIVE 


A high-ranking Federal Cabinet Minister and an Important 
civil servant will next Friday, September 5th, participate ina 
YMCA-initiated drive to reverse the near-crisis trend towards 
physical unfitness in Canada. 

As part of the campaign, Treasury Board President C.M. Drury 
will start a contingent of YMCA fitness program participants on a 
non-stop 24-hour run. 

The send-off will also involve Louis E. Lefaive, head of the 
Department of National Health & Welfare's Fitness & Amateur Sports 
Directorate. 

The race against time is to get underway at 12:30 p.m., in 
Alexis Nthon Plaza, located at the northwest corner of St. Catherine 
and Atwater Streets. 

The runners will include some men in their 80s, as well as 
grade-school-age youngsters and, hopefully, a number of women. 


Together, they plan to cover at least 1,001 miles during the round- 


the-clock marathon. 

The entire distance will be logged in Alexis Nihon Plaza 
to help demonstrate how the YMCA is making it possible for thousands 
of Montrealers to enjoyably channel part of their leisure time into 


fitness-developing activities. 


New emphasis of YMCA fitness programs is mainly on 
matntalning youthfulness, stregthening functional capacity 
and, perhaps of most importance to those over age 30, on 
minimizing the risks of premature cardiovascular deteriora- 
tion. 

During the 24 hours ending September 6th at 12:30 p.m., 
YMCA members will also demonstrate their proficiency in such 
recreational sports as gymnastics, judo and fencing. 

The program also includes a fitness-testing clinic. 

After the start of the run on Friday, there will be 
a luncheon for news media representatives in the Maindenhead 


Inn, on the Metro level of Alexts Nihon Plaza. 
ain 5 Oa= 
August 29, 1969 


for further information please contact: Bill Sher 
849-5331 


