NEWS RELEASE /COMMUNIQUE DE PRESSE 


Editorial Communications Canada Limited 


2065 Sun Life Building, Montreal 2, P.Q.— 861-9274 


LONG HOT SUMMER LIKELY HERE 
WARNS MONTREAL Y SPOKESMAN 
SUBJECT/ SUJET 


500 
WORD COUNT/NOMBRE DE MOTS 


YMCA OF MONTREAL 
FOR/COMMUNIQUE AU NOM DE 


AFTER 2:00 P.M., TUESDAY, APRIL 23, 1968 
FOR PUBLICATION/PUBLIABLE 


POUR RENSEIGNEMENTS 
COMMUNIQMONTACT___WILLIAM SHER 


The increasing urgency of the need to establish two-way communication 
between young people and adults was emphasized today by R.G. Rogers, 


assistant general secretary of the Montreal YMCA. 


"Without major attitude changes on both sides, the generation gap will 
continue to widen and reach proprotions which will threaten the 


continuity of our society," he warned the Rotary Club of Montreal. 


"This threat is not just something we may have to face sometime in the 
vague future. It is real, it is here, and it may well confront us 


jarringly this summer," he stated bluntly. 


In support of his premonition, Mr. Rogers pointed to the increasing 
number of young people who are attacking society, or withdrawing from 


it. 


"Hostile acts by juveniles are on the upsurge. Unrest is mounting in 
high schools, as well as in universities. More teens are experimenting 


with sex, drugs and alcohol--and at an earlier age than ever before." 


Such behavior, he insisted, frequently masks strong idealism, keen minds 
and unfulfilled desires to be acknowledged as responsible individuals. 
This is particularly true of the many young people who seem so indifferent, 


so docile and ready to capitulate to adult demands. 


When we adults don't understand, we generally either rationalize that 
"kids will be kids', or we clamp down with such extreme and rigid controls 


that there is no room for human development." 


Emphasizing that "we are not all wrong--and the young people all right," 
he urged nevertheless that adults take the initiative in developing two- 


way understanding. 


Mr. Rogers also suggested that the current youth rebellion is essentially 
a negative reaction to the disparities between society's stated aspirations 


and the direction it now seems to be pursuing. 


"With leadership, this rebellion can take a positive form," he said. 


He noted, for example that before becoming corrupted by those attracted 
by "the glamor and trappings" of its symbolism, the hippie movement had 
been trying to build a value system which resembles a mixture of early 


Christianity and Zen Buddhism. 


Unfortunately, the pseudo hippies took over and, during the past two years, 
have accounted for the sharp increase in run-away teens from affluent 
communities and the growing number of young people on the loose in urban 


areas. 


Re-emphasizing the need for prompt action, Mr. Rogers noted that, while 
many young people will change as they mature, their current values and 
attitudes are being passed on to still larger generations of younger 


people. 


Over the past three years, working outside of branches and regular 
programs, the Montreal YMCA has established contact with more than 3,000 


young people who normally shun any of society's institutions. 


As a result of this involvement, it was discovered that many seemingly 
indifferent young people are in fact desperate for real two-way 


relationships with adults. 


"Through patient and understanding interchange we can learn to appreciate 
the genuine creative search of young people and, at the same time, gently 
challenge the naivety of overnight transformation and solutions to a 


troubled world,'' said Mr. Rogers. 


"The key to communication is the ability to really listen," he said. "Only 
by demonstrating that we are truly interested in the ideas and opinions of 


young people can we expect them to share with us their hopes, fears and 


* * " 
aspirations. -30- 


