Metropolitan Offices 
1441 Drummond Street 
Telephone 849-5331 


Young Men's Christian Association of Montreal 


FOR RELEASE AFTER 8:00 P.M. 
WEDNESDAY, January 22, 1969. 


LACK OF JOBS, BOREDOM ENCOURAGE DRUG-TAKING 


Drug-taking will not be checked unless its real hazards are clearly 
understood by both users and those who try to dissuade them. 

"Following the pattern of last year, this summer will also, 
probably, be active where drugs are concerned, especially in the more 
affluent communities," says R.G. Rogers, General Secretary of the Mon- 
treal YMCA. 

Noting that the age at which youngsters start expertmenting with 
drugs has been getting lower for some time, he told the Quebec Camping 
Association that its use is also growing among adults. 

Increased use of drugs has, however, made both young people and 
adults more aware of the complexity of the gulf that separates them. 
This In turn has re-emphasized the need for continuing dialogue and 
frank interchanges. 

Youth workers who discover young people using drugs should, above 
all, remember to 'keep their cool’. Strictly discipl Inary action alone, 
without discussion and explanation, will only drive the practice under- 
ground. 

"Many young people do not themselves fully realize why they take 
drugs. Approach them with warmth and understanding. Make it clear 
you are really Interested in thetr viewpoint. Try to get them to 
examine and share their reasoning." 

The YMCA executive also delivered a blunt warning against trying 
to shrug off drug-taking as a passing fad. 

"In many instances, it is essentially 'escapism', a reaction 


against the forces of depersonalization or the state of the world, a 


- 


+ 


a Du 


symptom of personal problems or an attempt to artificially break out 
of ones self," he said. 

Mr. Rogers suggested that drug-taking received extra impetus last 
summer, when there was a scarcity of jobs for students. 

"This encouraged a number of youthful '‘users' to become 'pushers' 
so they could earn money. Other users, bored with Inactivity and 
frustrated by lack of opportunity to exercise their initiative, 
provided a ready market." 

Mr. Rogers touched on some guidelines for associations that serve 
youth. 


' he urged. 


"Educate yourself--young people are very well informed,' 
"Involve workers in the development of drug policies--simply setting 
hard and fast rules may create further problems." 


nin Baw 


For further Information please contact: Bill Sher, 
849-5331 Loc. 742 


January 22, 1969. 


