Metropolitan Offices 
1441 Drummond Street 
Telephone 849-5331 


Montréal Communiqué 


Special to the Montreal Gazette 
For release at will. 
JUNE 7, 1969--Yesterday was the 125th anniversary of the 
founding of the YMCA in London, England, during the chaotic 
days of the industrial revolution, just one century before the 


D-Day invasion of France. 


"We were reluctant to risk detracting from this historic 
turning point in World War II, and permitted the birthdate of 
our Association to pass without fanfare," commented R.G. Rogers, 


General Secretary of the Montreal YMCA. 


The Montreal YMCA, founded in 1851, just seven years 
after the Association was organized in England by George Will- 


iams, is the first YMCA on this continent. 


Celebrations to mark the 125th anniversary have been 
scheduled for June 19-21, when thousands of representatives from 
all of the 86 different countries in which the YMCA operates 
will meet in St. Louis, Miss. 


Jowes 


2 


"We will be participating in that convention and, in 
addition, hope that a great-grandson of Sir George Williams, 
John Smith, a Liberal member of the British Parliament, may 


be visiting us later this month,” said Mr. Rogers. 


Mr. Rogers noted that the Montreal YMCA started as an 
evangelical organization. As it evolved and matured, its 
range of concerns expanded to take in social and physical needs 


of people. 


It was in answer to previously neglected needs that 
the Y became a pioneer in the fields of self-development, 


recreation, education and physical education. 


Today, along with physical fitness programs for all ages, 
the principal emphases of the Association are on character- 
development, the preparation of pre-teens for adolescence and 
teenagers for maturity, the generation gap, human riohts and 
a front-line confrontation with social and community problems 


of the times. 


fever 


id 


=3< 


New ways are being developed to help clarify and streng- 
then family relations, and more programs evolved to foster 
communication and co-operation between Quebec's two main 


language groups. 


Work with immigrants and people in underprivileged areas 
is also being expanded, as are activities in the community and 
counselling for all ages on personal, vocational and family 


problems. 


The Y also operates a number of world service programs 
which concentrate on helping people in emerging nations to 
identify and meet their objectives. 


For further information please contact: Bill Sher, 
849-5331. 


