Metropolitan Office 
1441 Drummond Street 
Montreal 107, P.Q. 
Telephone 849-5331 


Young Men’s Christian Association of Montreal 


For release after 2:00 p.m. 
Thursday, Apri! 10, 1969. 
Approximately 225 words. 
PREMATURE DETERIORATION 
A RESULT OF INACTIVITY 
The very real hazards facing people tn sedentary 
occupations were outlined Thursday by Alex Wright, Physical 


Education Director of the Montreal Downtown YMCA, at a Mon- 


treal Kiwanlts Luncheon. 


"Automation and the continuing development of labor- 
saving devices encourage physical inactivity and have helped 
make It one of the biggest contributors to heart attacks and 


related diseases," he said. 


Yet, despite mounting evidence that they are need- 
lessly squandering years of youthful vitality and efficiency, 
too many men continue to follow routines which hasten physical 


deterioration, 


They work, drive home, eat, sit before their televisions, 


go to bed and arise next morning to repeat the whole process. 


"Helped by pills to make them sleep, wake up, ease 
_pafn, break the smoking habit and relieve depression--many of 


them do reach a ripe old age," he conceded. 


Pa keel 6s 


oiin 


But no one has yet been able to develop a substitute 
for exercise as an essential element of physical fitness. 
The price of failing to recognize this includes the possib- 
Ility of arthritis In the bones, shakey joints, malfunctioning 


bowels and the need to be very careful indeed. 


"We won't solve the problem by throwing bricks at 
televisions, or puncturing car tires and causing elevators 
to breakdown. What we must do--and are doing--Is develop 
exercises which serve as substitutes for hard physical work 


and natural movement." 


Susceptibility to fatigue and an increase in the length 
of time required to recover from physical exertion are two 


warning signals. 


"Frequently, the best way to fight these is to get 
tired more often," he urged. 


~=3Qa— 


For further Information please contact: Bill Sher, 
849-5331 Loc. 742 


