s 


. \NEWS RELEASE/COMMUNIQUE DE PRESSE 


Editorial Communications Canada Limited 


A subsidiary of The Creative Communications Group Limited 


2065 Sun Life Building, Montreal 2, P.Q.— 861-9274 


Real answers -- not platitudes, 
at 'no-nonsence' YMCA seminar 
SUBJECT /SUJET 


WORD COUNT/NOMBRE DE MOTS 490 


YMCA of Montreal 
en ee a ne eS ae eee ee 


sie bites rineieinisamin After 5 p.m., Sunday, November 12, 1967 


POUR RENSEIGNEMENTS i i 
COMMUNIQUER AVEC William Sher 
/CONTACT 


Contemporary human problems and practical paths to 
solutions were searchingly examined and warmly discussed this 
weekend by some 250 participants in a two-day Montreal YMCA 


seminar. 


The broadly representative group included high 
school and university students, heads of industry, youth workers, 
representatives of the professions and many who dubbed themselves 


"interested human beings". 


All were Y volunteers or staff members. The National 
Council of Canadian YMCAs and regional boards were also well 
represented. Assembled into work groups, they shared the 
responsibility of charting a course for the Montreal YMCA. 


Continued 


2 
The seminar, held in the retreat setting of St. Jovite, 


Que., was called to formulate recommendations for ways to ensure 
the Y remains a vital and relevant association, with objectives 


and programs attuned to the times. 


Basis for discussion was a far-ranging report on a 
24-year probe into the Y's policy, philosophy, purpose and goals. 
The report synthesizes the findings of one of the most comprehensive 


series of in-depth surveys ever carried out in Greater Montreal. 


W.S. Kirkpatrick, head of the Montreal YMCA's Planning 
and Development Committee, set the mood for the assembly on 


Saturday morning, at the opening plenary session. 


"The accelerated and unprecedented rate of change in 
the way of life of our communities is ushering in a new era of 
problems and opportunities," commented Mr. Kirkpatrick, who is 


also chairman and chief executive officer of Cominco. ‘ 
Continued 


“How can the Montreal YMCA best serve the needs of 
the changing times? That's the question we will try to answer this 


weekend," he said. 


"I suggest to each participant that he bear in mind 
that we can only get a consensus," he warned. However, he added; 
"This does not suggest for an ev that strong disagreement to 
a basic concept should not be vigorously voiced during the 


discussions." 


R.G. Rogers, assistant general secretary of the Montreal 


YMCA, backed Mr. Kirkpatrick with another warning. 


"Whatever we develop must be functional -- no platitudes 
will suffice,'' he declared. "If the YMCA is to be a relevant and 
effective social movement, it must involve itself more deeply with 


more of the affairs of the community." 


Continued 


4. 
Current main concerns of the Y include: the widening 


communications gap between young people and adults; barriers 
between different ethnic groups and cultures; the effects of 
increasing urbanization and institutionalism; the impersonalization 


accompanying technological advances in our society. 


-30- 


