SHORTAGE OF YMCA PROFESSIONALS STRESSED 
CHICAGO 
MARCH 22, 1963 


Most major YMCA branches across Canada are one third or more under-= 
staffed in professionally trained YMCA workers. While Canadian 
universities are turning out 40,000 graduates per year to the labor 
force, the Canadian YMCA has a difficult time recruiting 30 graduates 
and sixty per cent of those we do recruit, we are holding for only 

an average tenure of 1.8 years. They are returning to graduate 
schools, moving into high school teaching, or going into government 
social welfare jobs at much higher rates of pay. Apart from a better 
standard of living, all of these jobs offer more prestige and personal 


status in the community than any YMCA job. 


This statement was made by a senior spokesman at a nation-wide meeting 


of YMCA Executive Secretaries at the Chicago YMCA yesterday. 


A.W. Kemball, a member of the Personne! Committee of the Association 

of Secretaries, a YMCA professional body, said his organization had 
tried, along with the Montreal Metropolitan Staff Development Committee, 
to suggest ways this and other problems could be discussed with branch 
boards and senior executives of the Montreal Association but they had 
made no apperent gain. Kemball is Executive Secretary of the Central 
Branch YACA and Chairman of the Staff Development Committee for the 
Montreal 'Y'. Mr. Kemball said the Staff Development Committee, and 
other staff groups had difficulty putting their views before the 


General Secretary and the laymen committees on keeping staff salaries 


Continued . « # ¢ 


in line with rates in private employment, teaching and government & 


welfare services. 


"One need only consider the plight of the YMCA secretaria! profession 


to realize the seriousness of the matter," he said. 


Poor recruiting and poor salaries are only part of this problem--the 
real roots nobody wants to face up fo are that a YMCA job is so poorly 
defined no young person can seevany definable life long career in the 


field. 


Like many social agencies the 'Y' has tried to keep up with new con- 
cepts of character education but these ideas take three and four times 
as many trained and specialized staff people to handle. In the old 
days, one staff person could run a mass community program for 1000 
members=--today's small grouply program with Its intensive education 


concepts requires large numbers of hi gnafcht ned staff. 


The YMCA's program and its impact on the community are suffering be- 
cause we are not hiring enought staff and because the young staff we 


do recruit are saddled with jobs way beyond thier experience. 


Mr. Kemball said that while consultation procedures were set up in the 
A.0.S. Code of Ethics and in the Montreal Staff Development Policy, 
the Committee and A.O.S. representatives ran into difficulty In putting 
them into practice. When the General Secretary wants to consulf on 
some subjects, only a few hours or days are given the committees to 
prepare, but the same committees have tried in vain for months and 


years to initiate consultation on other subjects. 


Continued .« « « e 


Even within the salary review field, consultations which we had been 
led to expect did not always materialize, and when they did occur 
we have no-reason to believe that they had any significant effect on 


the implementation of previously prepared official positions," he said. 


censweSQwasen 


