NEWS 


FROM THE MONTREAL YMCA 


1441 DRUMMOND ST., MONTREAL 
TELEPHONE 849-5331, EXT. 57 


Monday, January lth, 1965. 


For Immediate Release 


YOUTH COUNCILS SHOW WHAT YOUNG PEOPLE CAN DO 


Four Youth Councils in operation on the lakesktns are proving that young 
people today can accept responsibilities and carry-out well-planned programs 
to meet the needs of the teen population. Approximately one-half of the 
Lakeshore's nearly 3,500 teenagers regularly participate in programs organized 
by these young leaders. 

The Youth Council is a group of about 15 young men and women between 15 
and 18 years who meet with Lakeshore YMCA staff advisors to plan and conduct 
recreational activities for teens in its particular area. Its prime purpose is 
not to keep teens off the streets, nor just to keep them occupied, but rather 
to provide social and character growth programs. 

The four Councils set up their own organizations, elect their own officers 
and make their own decisions. YMCA Staff Advisors assist only to help the 
groups work out methods and provide resources for solving problems, 

Rules of dress and hehavior are established and strictly enforced by the 
teens themselves. They manage their own business affairs including budgeting 
for programs and banking. They also face squarely up to their mistakes. 

Young people show in these councils that they are willing and able to 
carry out the responsibilities which go with freedom. Their programs are of a 


high calibre and duties are carried out promptly. seeneaes 2 


si Eom 
WEST END YOUTH COUNCIL 

The activities of this group are centered in the "Coop" at Baie d'rfe,. 
Programs consist mainly of regular dances and lounges. The Council also conducts 
an annual Driver Training Program in summer, and takes an active part in the Baie 
d'Urfe Day activity each year. 

NEW "Y" TEEN COUNCIL 

The New "Y" Council conducts its activities in the YMCA headquarters 
building, Pointe Claire, and in various schools in the area. The Council 
operates noon hour and after-school drop-in lounges, and regular Saturday 
night dances, Its highly successful "Blue Bunny" teen night club has outgrown 
the Y Building and now is held in school gyms. 

VPB YOUTH COUNCIL 

The Valois—Pointe Claire-Beaconsfield Council is now in its eighth year. 
The Council conducts lounges on Wednesday evenings and Saturday night dances 
in the Youth Hall on Lakeshore Road, Pointe Claire. Other activities included 
trips to Camp Perrot, ski trips, and the sponsorship of a Foster Child (through 
special dances and other events). 

JUNIOR YOUTH COUNCIL 

This is a group of younger teenagers (ages 13-15), who organized a council 
of their own because of different interests and emphasis on activities. The 
Junior Youth Council has its headquarters at the Lakeshore 'Y!building in Pointe 
Claire. 

The Lakeshore YMCA looks forward to the establishment of more youth councils 
in the communities of the West Island. At the moment, the formation of a | 
council on Ile Perrot is well underway. The Town of Pincourt has already made 
available a house to serve as the "teen center" and young people are working 
with the YMCA representative to organize programs. 


- SG a 


