Metropolitan Offices 
1441 Drummond Street 
Telephone 849-5331 


Montreal Communiqué 


September 24, }969 


REMINDEP: Don't forget to circle Monday, October 6th. The 
annual meeting of the Metropolitan YMCA of Montreal will be 
held on that date starting at 6:15 p.m., in Budge Hall, Down- 
town Branch. 

The evening will start with a buffet supper. Keynote speaker 
will be Mr. John Carson, Chairman of the Public Service Commis- 
sion of Canada and President of the Canadian YMCAs. 


TWO WOMEN NOMINATED TO METRO BOARD: Mrs. Muriel Armstrong and 
Madame Jeanne Sauve have been proposed for seats on the Metro- 
politan Board of Directors. Mrs. Armstrong, mother of three, 
is a professor of Economics at Sir George Williams University. 
Madame Sauvé, a freelance broadcaster and expert in public 
affairs,has one son. 

Other new nominees to the board are: 

C. A. Duff, Vice-President and Managing Director, Henry Birks 
& Sons Ltd., 

L.Y. Fortier, partner in the legal firm of Ogilvy, Cope, Por- 
teous, Hansard, Marler, Montgomery and Penault; 

Dr. John O'Brien, Principal and Vice-Chancellor, Sir George 
Williams niversity; 

Yves Pratte, Q.C., Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, 

Air Canada; 

E. Paul Zimmerman, President, Reader's Digest Association 
(Canada) Ltd. 


TEENAGERS AND MOTHERS TEE OFF ON DRUGS: YMCA Outreach Staffer, 
Al Whittal, is working closely with a newly-formed group of 
mothers and teenagers on a drive to check drug-taking in 
Lachine and Dorval. The action group, chaired by Mrs. Sheila 
Phipps of Dorval, includes a number of young people currently 
on drugs. 

The committee proposes to place a full-time YMCA detached 
worker in the field and form a youth clinic to which he could 
refer those in need of specialized assistance. 

The clinic would be staffed by volunteers such as psychia- 
trists, psychologists, physicians, lawyers and social workers. 
Support for the project is being sought from the municipali- 
ties of Lachine and Dorval, and from service clubs in the area, 


Sac eoewreeae 


ot 2e 


DOUGLAS HOSPITAL PATIENTS EARN SWIMMING AWARDS: During the summer, 
~ 40 YMCA swimming certificates were awarded to youngsters involved 
in a psycho-educational program at the Douglas Hospital. The 
instructors were YMCA-trained members of the hospital staff. A 
number of children, age 8-14, have also been integrated into regular 
fun clubs, crafts and sports programs of Verdun-LaSalle YMCA. 


NON-STOP MARATHON: Jean Forest, 57 and a member of Downtown Branch, 
jogged one mile for each birthday to win top honors in a non-stop 
run, held by the Montreal YMCA during the 24 hours ended at 12:30 
p.m., September 6th. 

Among those on hand for the start of the run were Treasury Board 
President C.M. Drury and L. E. Lefaive, head of the Department of 
National Health and Welfare's Fitness & Amateur Sports Directorate. 


Some 120 runners, aged 5-81, logged a total of 1,027 miles during 
the round-the-clock test of fitness. John Zlatuschka of Westmount 
Y's service staff chalked up 52 miles to finish in second place. 


CARPETS IN THE LOCKER ROOMS: Only a few final touches are needed to 
complete major programs of modernization and expansion of the phy- 
sical education facilities at Downtown, NDG and Westmount YMCAs. 
Work includes major face-lifts to changing room facilities, sauna 
baths and sun room installations, and the addition of exercises 
rooms with the latest equipment. 

Qn Tuesday, September 23rd, fuilback Dennis Duncan of the Alouettes 
nelped mark the completion of NDG-YMCA's revamping program by demons- 
trating some of the physical prowess which helps him shred opposing 
lines. On the evening of September 23rd, after a full workout with 
his team, he showed up at an Open House in the branch and performed 
a 1,770-1b leg lift. 


FELLOWSHIP: A total of 11 university undergraduates, seven males and 
four females, are involved in the Montreal YMCA's 1969-70 Fellowshin 
‘raining Program. Designed for young people preparing for careers 
with the Y, its emphasis this yeęr will be, increasingly, on field 
work with various operating units of the association in Greater 
Montreal. This will provide participants with more opportunities 

to test and apply what they learn in classrooms. 


aw Sja 


For further information please contact: Bill Sher 
Public Relations Director 
Telephone 849-5331 Loc.742 


