Metropolitan Offices 
1441 Drummond Street 
Telephone 849-5331 


Young Men’s Christian Association of Montreal 


NEW oS LE ff TER 


November 28, 1968. 


METRO CHRISTMAS PARTY: Watch for details about the Christ- 
mas party for etty-wide staff. The date: Priday, December 
13, 1968. Festivities are being planned by Leo Robitaille 

of METRO, Jim Turner and Al Whittal of LACHINE-DORVAL, and 

Bill Pigott of WEST ISLAND. 


BIG BUSINESS FROM THE INSIDE: Five major companies and Chateaaguay 
school officials are backing a LACHINE-DORVAL YMCA pilot projeet 
involving Youth and Industry. The program starts mid-January. it 
“was conceived by Jim Turner, the Branch's executive secretary, who 
will also serve as co-ordinator. 


The project is designed to give students an in-depth look at Itndus- 
try. They will tour plants, meet face-to-face with alf levels of 
management and have opportunities to quiz executives about company 
philosophies, objectives, operating methods and about how they 
fulfill their responsibilities as corporate citizens. 


PROJECT 'WHEELS'’: After three years of operating out of 
a brief case and telephone booths, Detached Worker Terry 
Johnston ts getting hits own office. A one-ton step-van 
ts being converted for his use as a mobile meeting room 
and counselling facility. As a start, tt will be used tin 
Westmount, N.D.G. and Montreal West. 


BENDING THE RULES: Tuesday, November 12, 1968 will probably be 
remembered by most Montrealers as the day of the nightmare snow- 
storm which paralyzed traffic. But some YMCA chroniclers may 
better recall it as the day that The STANLEY RESIDENCE temporarily 
overlooked its 'Men-only!' rule. 


By re-shuffling arrangements, Residence Administrator Cam MacLeod 
was able to provide overnight accomodation for three ladies--Miss 
May Connell who presides over the fifth floor offices of the Credit 
Union, one of her friends who works nearby, and Mrs. N. Beaton, 

who staffs the residence registration desk during the evening hours. 


SCHOOL BOARD PROBE: Kerry Johnston of INTERNATIONAL BRANCH 
will represent the MONTREAL YMCA on a spectal committee 
formed by the Protestant School Board to study the funetton 
of the school system in the inner etty. 


TUNING IN: Detached work programs often provide alienated young 
people with their first real link to the so-called adult world. 


we Diss 


This was emphasized by the Toronto YMCA's supervisor of detached 


youth work and drop-in centres, Grant Lowry, during a recent visit 
to DOWNTOWN BRANCH. 


Mr. Lowry, who has eight years experience in this increasingly 
important aspect of YMCA work, both on the front lines and as an 
administrator, discussed its significance and subtleties with mem- 


bers of the Downtown Board and interested representatives of the 
staff. 


POLICE LIAISON: Vie Hryhorchuk, Executive Secretary of 
DOWNTOWN BRANCH, and Leo Robitaille of METRO will represent 
the MONTREAL YMCA in a move to develop areas of co-operation 
with the Montreal Police Department. Vie will serve at 

the policy-making level. Leo will establish contact with 
the officers who direct station operations. Both these 
seasoned Y staffers are fluently bilingual. 


FINISHING ON TIME: NORTHMOUNT BRANCH held its annual meeting on 
Thursday, November 21. Following METRO's example, the program 

started with a buffet supper. Attendance totalled about 90, with 
more than half of those there in the under-25 age group. Despite 


a crowded program, the evening concluded five minutes ahead of 
schedule. 


HAVE FUN, GUYS: If you should want to contact Phil Macdonald 
or Bill Pigott between 5:00 and 6:00 p.m., most evenings 
you'll be able to find them in NDG-Y's gym. For the past 
few weeks, this dashing duo from WEST ISLAND BRANCH have 
been turning up regularly to indulge in calesthenics and 
toss around a basketball. Its the only place they could 
find whitch would permit them to have a workout at that time. 


THE LADY PLAYS SQUASH: Some girls like to knit. Some like to dance. 


Some like to cook, to sew, to listen to music. In addition to many 
of these popularly acceptable feminine pastimes, Arlene Murphy 
also enjoys a fast game of squash. Following up on her Interest, 


Arlene, who works at the front desk of NOG BRANCH, has organized a 
squash club. Plans are to hold tournaments with DOWNTOWN BRANCH. 


For further information please contact: Bill Sher 
Public Relations Director 
849-5331 Loc. 742 


