A. 


Metropolitan Offices 
1441 Drummond Street 
Telephone 849-5331 


Young Men’s Christian Association of Montreal 
FOR RELEASE: AT WILL 


ENLIGHTENED LEADERSHIP AN URGENT NEED 


MONTREAL, JANUARY 21, 1969--The current revolt of young people against 
so many aspects of society can be checked, insists R.G. Rogers, General 
Secretary of the Montreal YMCA. 

Better still, it can be resolved so that almost everyone would 
benefit by combining the energy and idealism of youth with the exper- 
lence and resources of adults, he told a Montreal Rotary Club luncheon. 

"One of the main keys Is front-line face-to-face leadership-- 
leadership by example, leadership which proposes guidelines, encourages 
discussion, shares values and heeds criticism," he suggests. 

Though young people are sometimes naive when they demand overnight 
solutions to pressing problems, they have throughout history prompted 
many vital reforms. 

"There have always been tensions between generations, and there 
always will be," cautioned Mr. Rogers. "Many of them are desirable, 
but some are destructive. All must be carefully assessed." 

He warned, for example, that the corrosive bitterness with which 
so many young people attack adult values cannot be dismissed as mere 
boyish over-enthusiasm. 

"Our fleld workers have been made jarringly aware that quite a 
number of youthful activists have only one firm aim--to destroy 
society." 

He noted that these hostile militants include many idealists. 

"But, if left unanswered, they could adversely arouse the grow- 


ing number of young people who express their disaffection with society 


2 


by apathetically withdrawing from it." 

He observed that "creeping allenation" had some time ago spread 
to youngsters of 13 and young adults in their 20s, as well as those in 
the age group between. 

"Too many young people seem to think that they alone care about 
justice and human values," diagnosed Mr. Rogers. "They just can't seem 
to see how deeply their concern is shared by so many adults." 

He emphasized, however, that this confusion and lack of perception 
works two ways. "Many adults don't realize that hostility or apathy 
are often the results of Impatience with failure to correct inequities 
and unfulfilled desires to serve." 

Separated by this "perception gap", both groups become even more 
confused by one of "the most insidious dilemmas" of our time--how to 
sort out the differences between right and wrong. 

Mr. Rogers suggested that the search for ways to correct social 
injustice could unify different age groups instead of dividing them. 

"l# they could only be made to realize it, all people, young and 
old, have many common concerns and some vision and experience to con- 
tribute to solutions," he said. 

As for associations such as the YMCA, their role is to provide 
the sort of counsel and create the sort of environment which will help 
people develop their own solutions--not provide pat answers. 


sant sci 


For further Information please contact: Bill Sher 
849-533) Loc. 742 


