Metropolitan Offices 
1441 Drummond Street 
Telephone 849-5331 


Young Men’s Christian Association of Montreal 


Be ow S t & TT ER 
JANUARY 3, 1969. 
HAPPY NEW YEAR TO EVERYONE 


HOW THE SYSTEM OPERATES...AND WHY: Live data will be used 
and real sttuattons examined at the three-day ortentation 
program to run January 6-8, 1969, for personnel who jotned 
the staff of the MONTREAL YMCA during the past 12 months. 

Current objectives and goals of the Assoctation will be 
explained, ways being followed to achieve them discussed, 
tndtvidual responstbilities put in perspective and support 
structures clarified. 

Looking ahead, program leaders will outline some of the 
major changes foreseen for the Y and the qualifications that 
will be needed by staff members in the future. 


A_FRESH LOOK AT RELIGION: Self-giving and concern for others will not 
alone promote brotherhood. Love and understanding rematn essential 
ingredients, but a frank confrontation with hatred and hostility is 
also required. 

Beliefs such as these will be searchingly probed on January 13, 1969, 
when branch heads and the METRO staff of the MONTREAL YMCA meet with 
the Association's Religious Advisory Committee. 


The meeting will re-assess the effectiveness of the Y's efforts to 
promote understanding between different faiths. It will work on the 
evolution of a spiritual philosophy that will be more acceptable and 


have more relevancy to young people. 


SKIING ON A SHOESTRING: For budget-consetous groups of out- 
door types, the YMCA’s RED GATE SKI LODGE is again operating 
this winter. Located between St. Agathe and St. Adolphe 
d'Howard, it can accomodate up to 75 persons. 

Cost for an overnight stay for a minimum group of 10 ts 
$1.25 per person. Beds, pillows, blankets and hot water are 
tneluded, but guests are required to bring their own sheets 
and towels. 

Meal prices are $1.25 for dinner or supper and 50¢ for 
breakfast. Groups that prepare thetr own meals are charged 
25¢ per’ person per day for use of the stove, refrigerator 
and dishes with which the lodge ts equipped. 

For complete information, please contact Robert Landre- 
ville of DOWNTOWN YMCA's Continuing Education Department at 
1441 Drummond Street. The telephone number is 849-5331, #720. 


SHAKE-UP AT WESTMOUNT: From now on, most activities at WESTMOUNT YMCA 
will be offered on a 'course' basis. Even those provided at no extra 
charge to members will be clearly scheduled, with specific times and 
dates for completion. 

The wholesale re-shuffle is part of a drive to encourage more of the 


sia 


branch's members to take fuller advantage of what Is offered. Measur- 
able objectives have been developed to give added incentive. 


NORTHMOUNT SCORES TWICE: Bruce B. Tingley is an insurance 
and investment counsellor. He ts also chairman of NORTHMOUNT 
BRANCH's Town of Mount Royal Area Council. During the two 
weeks before Christmas, he probably devoted more time to the 
YMCA than he dtd to his business. 

It all started when Bruce read that British Columbia was 
expecting a bumper holly crop. Using the telephone, telegrams, 
and the mails, he ordered 500 cases from Victoria and started 
arranging for their re-sale in Montreal. 

Morgan's set up YMCA holly booths in two of tits stores. 
Stmpson's did the same. Dominion Stores followed suit in its 
Town of Mount Royal operatton. 

All told, some 70 volunteers were involved in this pro- 
ject. Final results have not been tallied yet, but proceeds 
wtll help finance detached work and family education programs. 

NORTHMOUNT's World Service efforts also flourished during 
the holtday season. Christmas tree sales netted $450, 
tnereasing the total raised by the branch for overseas work 
to an all-time yearly high of $958. 


WEST_ISLAND Y'S MEN DO IT AGAIN: Don Wales and the WEST ISLAND Y's 
Men netted more than $5,000 during the branch's fourth annual sale of 
Christmas trees. Proceeds will help subsidize a number of projects 
for young people. 


For further information please contact: Bill Sher 
Public Relations Director 
849-5331 Loc. 742 


