NEWS RELEASE /COMMUNIQUE DE PRESSE 


Editorial Communications Canada Limited 


A subsidiary of The Creative Communications Group Limited 


2065 Sun Life Building, Montreal 2, P.Q.— 861-9274 


YMCA BREACHING GHETTO BARRIERS 


i] 9 
suBvect/suser____ WITH 'THIRD-LANGUAGE' DAY CAMP 


WORD COUNT/NOMBRE DE MOTS 350 
FOR/COMMUNIQUE AU NOM be___YMCA OF MONTREAL 


FOR PUBLICATION/PUBLIABLE AT WILL 


PCCOMMUNIQUER Avec = WILLIAM SHER 
/CONTACT 


The belief that learning can be enjoyable is being put to a severe 
test in Montreal's teeming North End by the International Branch of 


the Montreal YMCA. 


This neglected district, with Park Avenue and St. Viateur as its 
core, has long been considered a melting pot for new immigrants to 


Canada. 


But, with an increasing number of arrivals clinging tenaciously to 
their ethnic identities, it has become more like a hotbed of unrelated 


nationalities. 


Continued 


The result - a series of ghettos, isolated and unaware of the 
opportunities existing outside their self-made boundaries, with 


inhabitants unwilling to join the mainstream of the community. 


Language differences are the main barriers to integration. 


Most of the foreign-born newcomers to this area recognize that 
they must learn one of Canada's official languages to earn a 


living here. For the majority, English is the first choice. 


Those who master or acquire a working knowledge of English are 


habitually reluctant to tackle French. Efforts to interest them 


Continued 


in learning what would be a third language are greeted with 


indifference. 


The biggest losers are the children, most of whom regard any form 

of extra study as punishment. ‘To offset this attitude, we are using 
the pool, the gym, arts and crafts, music, movies and magazines to 
help the youngsters learn French," states Kerry Johnston of the 


International Y's education department. 


"The program is designed to bring the language to life by creating 

an environment that is free from threat, emotional strains and tensions. 
We operate much like a summer day camp but, as French is the only 

language used, mastering it becomes a personal objective of the youngsters.” 


Continued 


Kerry, aged 28 and a former school teacher, insists that true learning 


and insight cannot be imposed. 


"The task of the educator,'’ he maintains, ‘is not to introduce and 
enforce facts and skills, but rather to provide an environment in 


which the student becomes stimulated and motivated. 


"He should make his greater experience and knowledge of resources 
available at all times, but forego the role of condescending authority. 
While remaining free to make suggestions, he should welcome challenge 
and be reluctant to act as an enforcer.’ 

= Sin 


July 20, 1967. 


