NEWS RELEASE /COMMUNIQUE DE PRESSE 


. 
s 


Editorial Communications Canada Limited 


A subsidiary of The Creative Communications Group Limited 


2065 Sun Life Building, Montreal 2, P.Q.— 861-9274 


SUBJECT / SUJET 


WORD COUNT/NOMBRE DE MOTS 


FOR/COMMUNIQUE AU NOM DE 


FOR PUBLICATION/PUBLIABLE 


POUR RENSEIGNEMENTS 
COMMUNIQUER AVEC 
/CONTACT 


MONTREAL YMCA UNDERTAKES CRITICAL SELF-EXAMINATION 


400 


MONTREAL YMCA 


AT WILL 


W. SHER 


° PEC 5 1966 1. 


Details of a far-reaching program of self-examination were announced 


today by the Montreal YMCA. 


Its objective is to re-assess critically the policies and programs 


of the association, revising them to meet real contemporary needs. 


"We believe strongly that voluntary associations have an essential 
part to play in the building of a strong democratic society," R.G. 
Rogers, assistant general secretary of the Montreal YMCA, told a news 


conference. 


In such a society, he said, there is ample room for individual 
initiative and, "all cultures can flourish and be allowed the privilege 


of enjoying their differences." 


Government bodies have a growing responsibility for dealing with 
community problems, but it would be disasterous if we were to rely on 


them completely, he said. 


: 2. 

Mr. Rogers noted that the first YMCA in North America was founded 
in Montreal 115 years ago. In its early days the stress was on 
spiritual and educational activities. 'Later, physical education became 
a major emphasis and, in fact, has been so successful that for many 


people this is the only image by which we are known today." 


The YMCA is one of the few places where Christians, followers of 
other faiths, and those without any religious commitments, can meet 


to share mutual concerns. 


"There is a growing desire to broaden the basis of our membership 


and the people we serve," said Mr. Rogers. 


Another major objective of the Montreal YMCA is to contribute 
increasingly to the easing.of racial tensions in the community by 


working co-operatively with similarly motivated groups. 


continued.... 


_ = 
"Over the past five years, an increasing number of French-speaking 


' said Mr. Rogers. 


Canadians have been taking part in YMCA activities,' 
"At present, nearly one-third of the people we serve are French-speaking 


Canadians, some of whom have assumed positions of responsibility and leader- 


ship in the Association." 


As part of the research program, each unit of the Montreal YMCA is 
assessing in depth the requirements of the community it serves to help 


develop clear plans for every branch and camp. 


This study involves young. people, as well as adult members and 


community leaders from all parts of Greater Montreal. 


"As a youth-serving organization_we are experimenting with better 
ways to work with youth -- not simply to do things for youth," said 


Mr. Rogers. 


a 


