Metropolitan Offices 
1441 Drummond Street 


Telephone 849-5331 
Montreal Communique 


Vv 


TASK FORCE ON SPORTS: Roy McKelvie, who is helping co-ordin- 
ate YMCA physical education activities in Greater Montreal, suggests 
the Association could significantly help implement some of the 
recommendations contained in the recent report of the Task Force 
On Canadian Sports. 

The YMCA Is concerned mainly with adults and youngsters who 
never made their school teams and are unlikely to win any medals 
for performance in the years ahead. But it also promotes amateur 
athletics by providing basic skill instruction and opportunities 
for mass participation in physical education programs. 

Sports governing bodies could take over the further develop- 
ment of youngsters with promise for competition. This would in 
turn enable the Y to concentrate on activities for people who take 
part in sports and fitness programs for the pleasure, recreational, 
social and health benefits they derive from them. 


May 29, 1969. 


FITNESS PROGRAM LAUDED: YMCA efforts to stem the curr- 
ent 'eptdemte' of heart attacks were lauded at DOWNTOWN 
BRANCH'S Awards Banquet by Dr. H.F. Mizgala, a prominent 
eardtologist and consultant with a number of major Montreal 
hospitals. 

"Setentifte evidence is rapidly accumulating to indi- 
cate that proper exercise may not only play an important 
role in preventing coronary artery disease, but may be of 
great benefit to those already stricken," he said. 


BECOMING A MORE EFFECTIVE SOCIAL FORCE: A contingent of 25 
persons from Greater Montreal participated in the annual meeting of 
the National Council of Canadian YMCAs. Held May 22-24 at Geneva 
Park, Ont., it attracted some 300 delegates from across the country. 

Emphasis of the discussions was on ways to make the YMCA a 
more effective social force, a national Y policy on social issues, 
human rights, the greater involvement of young people and women in 
decision-making and the Y's statement of purpose. 

"We shall be taking risks and getting into trouble," warned 
John Carson, National President of the YMCA and Chairman of the 
Public Service Commisston of Canada. "But the Y is committed to 
express itself on social issues where it has concern, interest and 
competence." 

During the marathon round of meetings, Susan Young, a 19-year 
old fellowship student at Sir George Williams University, became 
one of the first three females ever named to the board of the 
National Council. Other new Montreal appointees to this policy- 
making body are R.A. Irwin, President of Consolidated Bathurst and 
J.G. Kendrick, President of Zeller's Ltd. 


owe end am gue 


ay 
nw 


Fred Hubbard, former General Secretary of the Montreal YMCA, 
was cited for his many years of outstanding service and made an 
Honorary Lifetime Member of the National YMCA. 


DETACHED WORK IN VERDUN: VERDUN-LASALLE YMCA will co- 
ordinate an [inter-agency Detached Work program for young 
people in the City of Verdun. Patterned after a pilot pro- 
ject operated last summer by the branch, it is being backed 
by the municipality's administration, police and recreation 
departments. 


Bill Russell, Verdun-LaSalle's Executive Secretary, 
expects to start with a team of two full-time workers. Two 
others will be added if, as is expected, service clubs in the 


area lend their support. 


-A_REAL"'SLEEPER': The Montreal YMCA's WESTMOUNT BRANCH faces 
one of the pleasantest, most spacious and best-tended parks in 
Greater Montreal. Yet it is just 10-15 minutes away, by public 
transportation from the bustling downtown centre of the city. 

Few of the thousands of people who daily pass this three- 
storey full-facility building realize that it contains 26 resi- 
dence rooms. Rates for accommodation range from $17 to $20 a week 
or $2.50 to $4.00 a day. Costs include full membership privileges, 
and parking is available at $1.25 a week. 

For those who insist on staying right in the heart of the 
action, the Y's downtown residence is the place. Long established 
as a stopping place for budget-conscious visitors, it also has com- 
petitively-priced executive-type accommodations. 


B & B AT KANAWANA AND DAY CAMPS: Kamp Kanawana wil | 
this summer operate a special French-language section for 


English-speaking boys age 12-l16. It is designed to encourage 
the campers to learn the language naturally while enjoying 
all the fun and benefits and an all-round program. For 


further information please contact Geoff Anderson at 849-533] 
or your local YMCA. 

In the city, day camp programs of INTERNATIONAL, VERDUN- 
LASALLE, WEST ISLAND and WESTMOUNT BRANCHES will either be 
bilingual or have special French-language sections. In co- 
operation with the Quebec Association for Mentally Retarded 
Children, West Island's day camp complex on Ile Perrot will 
also have special activities for handicapped youngsters. 


ARE GIRLS MORE DARING? Young people, age 18 to 25, male or 
female, have until June 10th to register for "Aventure Canadienne"-- 


a two-month tour across Canada. Prospective participants are asked 
to submit an outline of what they would like to do during the trip. 
Total cost--including food, travel and accommodations--is $200. 


The project, conceived by the YMCA and backed by Secretary 
of State Gerard Pelletier, is designed to promote functional 


bilingualism, and provide young Canadians with a matchless oppor- 
tunity to gain an insight into the attitudes, aspirations and ways 
of life of people in different parts of the country. 


= 3% 


To date the ratio of female-to-male applicants Is about 7:1. 
For further tnformation please contact Leon Ouaknine of DOWNTOWN 
YMCA's Continuing Education Department at 849-5331. 


For further Information please contact: Bill Sher, 
Public Relattons Director 
(514) 849-5331 Loc. 742. 


