Metropolitan Offices 
1441 Drummond Street 


Telephone 849-5331 
Montreal Communique 
February 26, 1970 
MUCH MORE THAN MEETS THE EYE: "The tip of the iceberg." That's the 


description given to the brief talks by a diversified group of indi- 
viduals at the February 23rd rally of participants in the Montreal 
YMCA's financial campaign. 


The group consisted of a journalist, a psychiatrist, spokesmen from 
Little Burgundy and Mile End West, an involved wife and mother, anda 
fitness program follower. Each related an example of how the Y had 
touched-their lives. 


SET TO GO: Final countdown is underway for the official start of 
the Y's city-wide drive for $400,000. By blast-off time--on 
March 2nd--the total task force involved in the undertaking is 
expected to reach 2,000. 


HOCKEY MARATHON: To help raise funds, relays of 50 young people-- 
age 14-20--propose to play hockey for 60 hours, non-stop, in 
Verdun's Crawford Park. Face-off time is 4:00 p.m., Friday, 
February 27. Time on the ice will be underwritten by sponsors, 
with proceeds going to the Verdun-LaSalle division of the campaign. 


WHERE'LL THE MONEY GO: Programs that help youngsters cope with and 
enjoy their formative years will be among the principal beneficiaries of 
the campaign. 


In addition to Y gyms, pools, camps and club rooms, such activities are, 
increasingly, carried on in back alleys, school yards and public parks. 


Whatever the milieu, the objective is multi-faced: firm up young muscles, 
teach sports skills, encourage initiative, give some understanding of 
responsibility and foster awareness. 


DON'T WRITE OFF YOUTH: The current rift in adult-youth relation- 
ships could conceivably become a near impassable gulf which 
would further isolate chances for inter-generation co-operation. 


Frustrated by apathy and aimlessness, angered by self-centred 
approaches and acts of destructiveness, irritated by the seeming 
unwillingness of young people to recognize that responsibility 
almost invariably accompanies privilege--some grown ups seem 

on the verge of abandonning part of the upcoming generation. 


sveveven weet 2 


2d= 


To forestall such a rejection, which would almost certainly 
work two ways, the Y consciously provides forums where dif- 
ferences can be searchingly examined, jointly, in an atmosphere 
of mutual trust. 


STARTING YOUNG: Like most other children her age, crawling is 7-month. 
old Kimberley Zacabe's favorite means of locomotion. But, she has one 
big advantage over most other members of the diaper set. She can 
swim--sort of. 


Since her enrollment in the N.D.G. YMCA's Kinder Program, Kimberley 
has learned to float on her back for up to 3 minutes at a stretch, and 
will fearlessly (and happily) emerse her face in the water. 


This program was started last September for children under age two. 

It involves both Gym and Swim activities. Some 45 youngsters have 
participated in the program since it was started. The youngest of these 
was a 5-month old boy who was taught to float and enjoy putting his face 
in water. 


THE DOCTOR APPROVES: Dr. Frank de N. Brent, Alcan's 
Director of Health Service, sat in on a recent fitness- 
testing clinic in Downtown YMCA. His comment; "Very 
impressive." 


290 
For further information please contact: Bill Sher 


849-5331 
Local 742 


