~ 


Metropolitan Offices 
1441 Drummond Street 
Telephone 849-5331 


Montréal Communique 


For release after Sept. 2, 1969 


TWO YMCAs AMALGAMATE 


Operations of the West Istand and Lachine-Dorval 
Branches of the Montreal YMCA have been amalgamated in a 
move to avoid duplication of effort and broaden the range 
of activities avatlable in both constituenctes. 

This closer relationship will immediately place 
YMCA specialists from both branches at the disposal of all 
communities involved. 

Phil Macdonald of West Island YMCA heads the com- 
bined units. Jim Turner, formerly in charge of Lachine- 
Dorval, is associate executive, with spectal responsi- 
bility for staff supervision and North Shore area development. 

Bill Piggott assumes’ major responsibility for out- 
reach work programs and services in Pointe Claire and 
Beaconsfield. He is backed in these communities by Murray 
Horn, who also remains in charge of the YMCA's day camp 
complex on Ile Perrot.. 

AL Whittal is planning, supervising and helping 
implement programs and services in Chateauguay, Lachine and 
Dorval. Peggy Humby has been assigned to co-ordinate and 
develop special programs and skill-development activities 
itn all communities. 

Bill Burke will provide overall direction of physteal 


education and take charge of the West Island YMCA ski school. 


Joe Mallette takes responsibility for combined 
business services. 

West Island YMCA began in rented premises in 1963 
in Pointe Claire, and moved into its own building in 1965. 
This serves as an admintstratton and training factlity as 
well as a program and meeting centre. 

The branch provides a wide range of physteal and 
recreational activities for all ages, many of them carried 
on in school gyms, church halls, school rooms and etvie 
centres. 

Its ski school, for example, serves all ages. Wtth 
an enrollment of more than 2,000, it is the largest 
operation of its kind in Canada. Its swimming operatton 
involves about 5,000 persons. There are fitness classes 
for ladies and for businessmen, as well as training programs 
for many sports. 

At the same time, the branch is providing more pro- 
grams to strengthen family relationships and is developing 
new ways to help young people to find constructively 
enjoyable alternatives to such contemporary concerns as 
drug-taking, boredom and the revolt against adult values 
and institutions. 

In the communities served by Lachine-Dorval Branch 
prior to the amalgamation, the emphasis will remain on 
young people and their concerns. 

The Lachine building has been completely refur- 
bished as a program centre. 

whlm 


For further information, please contact: Bill Sher 
849-5331 


