Metropolitan Offices 
1441 Drummond Street 
Telephone 849-5331 


Young Men’s Christian Association of Montreal 


YMCA SPOKESMAN SAYS LEGISLATION 
ALONE NO ANSWER TO DRUG-TAKING. 


For release at will. 
NOVEMBER 29--A prominent youth worker suggested last night that 
adults will have to dig deeply into their wells of patience and 
understanding if they want to check drug-taking by young people. 

"| doubt if the problem can be legislated out of 
existence," says R.G. Rogers, General Secretary of the Montreal 
YMCA. “Laws will help, but only knowledge, Insight and repeated 
demonstrations that adults really care can provide a lasting cure." 

Mr. Rogers, a panellist In a Drug Forum at John Grant 
High School in Lachine, noted that some students try marijuana, 
hashish and L.S.D. because it is an 'in' thing, and they are 
curious. 

But many who become habitual users are protesting, 
often unknowingly, against overly-strict or insufficient controls 
and a real or fancied Impersonalization of relationships with 
adults. 

"Most young people would welcome opportunities to 
share responsibility. They resent being deprived of opportunities 
to exercise Initiative," he insists. 

In discussing the ramifications of such attitudes, 
the YMCA executive observed that young people are generally extremely 
sensitive about their dignity, and where they fit. 


"They react both to what is said, and how it is said. 


= 


They would rather be given information, guidelines and some clear 
expectations than simply be controlled," he stated. 

He also emphasized that young people urgently want 
adults to share themselves as genuine persons who, regardless of 
competency, will frankly reveal their feelings and weaknesses along 
with their strengths. 

"| think youth are looking for standards, principles 
and values to measure themselves against," he added. "If adults 
don't share theirs openly, then youth is deprived of an essential 
Ingredient in seeking alternatives." 


For further information please contact: Bill Sher 
849-5331 Loc. 742 


