Metropolitan Offices 
1441 Drummond Street 
Telephone 849-5331 


Young Men's Christian Association of Montreal 


NEWSLETTER 


September 26, 1968, 


MANAGEMENT BY OBJECTIVES: While skeleton crews minded the store, senior 
full-time staffers from every branch went up north September -6 to participate 
in one of the most far-sighted workshops ever held by the Montreal YMCA. 


The three-day crash program emphasized that, while sound motives and 
the ability to play-it-by-ear are fine, objectives can be best achieved when 
they are clearly defined, and step-by-step ways of reaching them are care- 
fully organized. 


The program concentrated on the development of workable objectives, 
interim action steps and ways to measure results. It was emphasized that, 
with measurable results, remedial measures can be taken more efficiently when 
performance is below standard, 


Discussion leaders were Don Case, Director of Management, Personnel 
and Management Services, U.S.National Council of the YMCA, and Bill Skinner, 
Personnel Services Division, National Council YMCAs of Canada. 


Synthesizing the findings of major industry, they helped provide an 
efficient basis for the development of long range plans for all phases of 
YMCA operation in Greater Montreal. 


FROM WHERE DOES THE MONEY COME.....AND GO? As part of this week's 
orientation week, 20 of the 33 Fellowship students now preparing for careers 
with the YMCA visited International, Northmount and NDG branches on September 
10. 


While their main interest seemed to be in outreach activities and 
community development programs, they also displayed an increasing desire to 
understand the business and financial aspects of Y operations. 


Their questions covered sources and management of funds, physical assets, 
budgeting and financing of non-revenue activities, as well as ways of planning 
and implementing programs. 


In reviewing the tour, one spokesman expressed his appreciation for 
the clarity and frankness with which some of the staff members had discussed 
the strengths and weaknesses of both their branch and the total Montreal 
association. 


A majority of the group said they would appreciate an opportunity to 
tour some of the other branches later this year. 


=2 


NEW MONTREAL APPOINTMENTS: Robert Landreville has been appointed as Program 
Secretary, Downtown Staff, with specific responsibilities in Continuing 
Education. He will also explore ways in which the branch can expand and 
improve its services with organizations and individuals in the downtown area. 
A University of Montreal graduate, his past experience includes a stint as a 
leader with the Company of Young Canadians in the Province of Quebec. 


Tom E.Potts is replacing Roy McKelvie as Executive Secretary of 
Westmount Branch. Tom was Director of Physical Education, Toronto Central 
YMCA. Roy, as previously announced, is now a Field Service and Program 
Secretary with Metro staff. 


EXTRA PORTFOLIO: Ed Giles, Physical Director of NDG Y, has taken 
on another portfolio. He is now also Associate Executive of the branch, 
with special responsibilities for its Family Program. 


OUR MAN IN THE ARCTIC: Former YMCA staff member Terry Forth writes that 

he is due in Montreal on or about October 26. Terry is now with the Depart- 
ment of Indian Affairs and Northern Development. He works out of Churchill, 
Manitoba and expects to be accompanied by his Eskimo interpreter on his visit 
here. He is looking forward to seeing his many old friends in Montreal and 
planning to show some slides of the area he serves. 


FINAL REMINDER: It now looks as if there will be about 150 
participants in the Metropolitan YMCA's annual meetinge Don't forget the 
time and place: Monday, September 30, in Downtown Branch's Budge Hall. 


FINANCIAL CAMPAIGN: Canada Steamship Lines President J.W.McGiffin announced 
that, including pledges, the Montreal YMCA's 1968 financial campaign had 
topped it's objective of $30,000 by some ‘600. 


Mr. McGiffin was head of this biggest-ever annual drive for funds, 
Lorne G.Main, vice-president Hawker-Siddeley Canada was its general vice- 
chairman. 


E.Paul Zimmerman, President of Reader's Digest (Canada), was special 
names chairman of the campaign, and Paul E.Cote, vice-president, Molson 
Breweries, was his co-chairman. 


For further information please contact: 


Bill Sher 
141 Drummond Street 
Telephone No. 849-5331. Loc. 72 


