Metropolitan Offices 
1441 Drummond Street 
Telephone 849-5331 


Montréal Communiqué 


May 28, 1970 


RECORD BUDGET: Directors of the Metropolitan Board of the 
Montreal YMCA have approved a record high budget. of more than 
$2.8 million for the year starting June 1, 1970. The total 
covers all phases of city-wide operation, both branch-based 
and outreach. 


Major emphasis will be on specific needs that have already 
been identified. These include: 

(1) The placement of additional youth and women's programmers 
on branch staffs (2) expansion of physical education activities 
(3) the deployment of more workers on detached service with 
alienated youth (4) the further establishment of drop-in 
centres, youth clinics and counselling services. 


MONTREALER NAMED NATIONAL Y PRESIDENT: Holbrook R. Davis, 
chairman of the Montreal Downtown YMCA and Alcan Aluminium's 
Chief Employee Relations Officer, has been elected president 
of the National Council of YMCAs of Canada. 


He suggested in accepting the post that the fuller involvement 
of youth in setting policy and planning programs might help 
strip away the layers of complacency still insulating many 
adults from some of the deep-rooted problems gnawing at society 
today. 


Young people have often proved themselves quicker than adults 
to recognize problems and initiate action, particularly against 
social inequities, poverty, umemployment, alienation and 
dehumanization. 


Unfortunately, he commented, many young people don't appear to 
realize that many current shortcomings were inherited from 
preceding generations. Frustrated by seeming indifference, inertia 
or ignorance, they lash out impatiently in attempts to destroy 
totally so they can rebuild from the ground up. 


This fosters antagonism. If attitudes are not to harden--become 


more polarized--young people and adults will have to become more 
open-minded and sensitive to each other's needs. 


MOYPE..e 


wane 


YOUTH INVOLVEMENT A 'MUST': Outgoing National YMCA President 
John J. Carson also insisted that the energy, social conscious- 
ness and dedication of young people must be utilized if the Y 
is to meet the challenge of the ‘70s. 


The young people the Y is hoping to attract may have their 
own mores, their own life style, even their own language. 
But they must be met at least half-way, with tolerance 

and understanding, he urged. 


"In recent years, we have been debating the meaning that should 
be given to the "C" in our Movement's name. I believe that it 
is at least equally crucial for us to be quite certain about 
the significance of the "Y". 


FITNESS TESTING: Female members of the Northern Electric Employees' 
Club are demanding equal time, and getting it. Over the past few 
weeks, the club subsidized a series of fitness-testing clinics 

for its men. They were run through in Downtown Y's testing lab. 

A similar program for the girls has been tentatively scheduled for 
July. 


MILES FOR MILLIONS: Fifteen YMCA fitness program participants 
took part in Montreal's recent Miles for Millions walk. They 
jogged the entire 28 miles, completing the course in under 
four hours. 


WATCH THIS GIRL: Blanche Putzel, the gal known as 'Sam', has been 
appointed a director of the board of the Canadian Mental Health 
Association. She's a member of the Y's Metropolitan Detached 

Work Unit, serving in the West Island area. 


CAMPING: A total of almost 500 boys and girls have been 
enrolled to spend part of this summer at Kamp Kanawana. 
Another 24 boys have been signed up for Les Voyageurs canoe 
adventures. Pre-registrations is also high for the day camp 
programs operated by different Y branches in the city. 


«~30= 


For further information please contact: Bill Sher 
849-5331 


