Metropolitan Offices 
1441 Drummond Street 
Telephone 849-5331 


Montréal Communique 


PEOPLE MANAGERS GIVEN 
SOME VITAL FACTS OF LIFE 


Approximately 300 words, 


For release Monday, 
December 8, 1969, after 
1:30 p.m. 


Some of the lethal hazards of sedentary living were out- 
lined Monday in blunt terms by Alex Wright, a national expert on 
fitness who is currently physical education director of the 
Montreal Downtown YMCA. 


Mr. Wright noted, for example, that "lack of exercise has 
been identified as one of the major causes of the upsurge in the 
number of men being felled during their most productive years by 
the wide range of cardiovascular diseases lumped under the 
heading of ‘heart attack'." 


It sometimes seems as if there is a gadget-and-pil| 
conspiracy to discourage physical activity, he deplored during a 
luncheon address to the Montreal Personnel Association. 


This lack of activity, aggravated by tension and ten- 
dencies to overeat, has allowed the level of physical fitness 
on this continent to sink to a near-crisis level. 


Flaccid muscles and expanding waistlines are among the 
more obvious signs of premature physical deterioration. So are 
declines in resistance to fatigue, increases in the time required 
to recover from exertion and, sometimes, even malfunctioning 
bowels. 


"While drugs and pills can mask or relieve some of these 
symptoms, they are not substitutes for the natural movement so 
essential to keep the human body in sound operation," he said. 


Mr. Wright cautioned, however, that an overenthustastic 
rush into a haphazard round of sports or games can also have 
serious effects. 


"Exercise is specific. It is specific to the particular 
needs of the individual. It is specific to your age, to your 
work and to what you want it to do," he commented. 


contd/2 


While YMCA programs are tailored to trim down waistlines, 
tone muscles and improve flexibility, the main emphasis is on 
cardiovascular endurance. 


This, above all, determines how efficlently an individual 
will be able to work, play and cope with day-to-day stresses or 
emergencies. 


To assess what kind of exercises an individual should do - 
and for how long, how fast, and how hard - the YMCA has developed 
a fitness-testing program. This also serves as a basis for 
charting progress. 


mee 


For further information, please contact: Bill Sher 
849-5331, Local 742 


