From: Information and Publications For release: 10h.00 p.m., 
Branch 
Department of Youth Friday, May 3lst, 1963. 


ADDRESS BY THE HONOURABLE PAUL GERIN-LAJOIE 
delivered at the Annual spring convocation of Sir George 


Williams University, on Friday, May 3lst, 1963. 


Montréal, May 3lst, 1963. 


This Convocation Day has a joyful meaning for 


each of you. It marks the beginning of a new period for which 


you have worked and planned, whether you mean to undertake 


more advanced studies or enter immediately upon a carerr. 


I congratulate you on your present success and I wish you great 


personal fulfillment in your individual projects. At this very 


important moment in your lives, I would like to bring home 


to each of you the social meaning that I attach to graduating 


from university in Québec today. 


Over the last few months, I, and may be even 


some of you, have wondered if the year 1963 does not represent 


a commencement in Canadian life. Much has been said in recent 


months about the internal problems of Canadian society. Only 


a few days ago, the Prime Minister of Canada wrote the Premiers 


of the Provinces regarding the appointment of a Royal Commission 
on Biculturalism. You are well aware that today inter -group 
relations is a matter of serious concern to all Canadians and, 
particularly, to Quebeckers whatever their origin. If proper 
attention is given to the interdependence of the various elements 
of our population, during the coming months, the present year 
might well represent the beginning of a new era for Canada, 
I say beginning and I use the word advisedly, because the detection 
of significant problem areas, the elaboration of appropriate 
social planning, and the implementation of nécessary changes, 
cannot and will not take place overnight. 

Today's university graduates inherit a considerable 
share in the task of finding solutions to the dilemnas in our 


national life and Québec residents have a heavy responsiblilty 


of showing true leadership. That is why I wish to speak to you 


of Canadian dualism at this academic gathering. 


As residents of Québec we have the important task 


of insuring that French Canadians will be treated as charter 


citizens of Canada. The dilemnas of Canadian society are to 


be found in large part within our Province and, it is to the solu - 


tion of local problems that we must give priority. 


An American social scientist, Professor Hughes, 


on inquiring into the unemployment problem, during the thirties, 


indicated that the picture of employment in Québec could not be 


drawn without taking into consideration the ethnic origins of 


employers and employees. Later analyses show little change 


in this image of urban Québec. Our large enterprises are Angio- 


American; their administrative and technical staffs are largely 


English-speaking; comparatively few French Canadians have 


reached the upper levels of management. 


Large corporate enterprises, of course, do not 


form the whole of Québec's society. Take Greater Montréal 


with its temples, hospitals, schools, universities, welfare 


institutions and small enterprises that serve various groups 


according to their particular ethnic requirements. This plurality 


is desirable and offers multiple career opportunities. In Montréal 


and in other large centres, we find, besides, that federal, 


provincial and municipal governments offer public services which 


provide career possibilities to various elements of the population. 


Why think of inter-group relations in terms of 


employment and especially in terms of employment within large 


corporate bodies, public and private? For three reasons! 


First, large corporations employ the majority of the labour 
force and through technological progress their employment 
potential increases. Second, technical and administrative 
employment is giving the urban dweller an ever greater share 
of his training while it increases his potential for personal 
development. Third, work is remunerative and, toa large 
extent, the financial reward which it provides determines the 
ambitions and opportunities that one generation passes on to the 
next. These reasons are sufficient, I believe, to arouse compe - 
tition with respect to job opportunities. However, within an 
industrial society comprising various groups of different cultural 
backgrounds, the competition for worthwhile occupations is not 
as free and open as we might be sometimes led to believe. 

The urbanization and industrialization of Québec and 


Ontario, at the turn of the century, gave rise to social arrangements 


-§~ 
which engendered inequality of opportunity for our two main 
language-groups. The inequality of social progress which 
resulted has since been given many different explanations. 
However, on examining these explanations we find many half- 
truths. 

I refer to these half-truths since on the one hand 
some were interpreted as completely justifying the situation 
and on the other hand, some were never interpreted in terms 
of their true consequence. My reference to these, however, 
should not be looked upon-as an attempt to lay the blame some- 
where but rather to stress the complexity and the importance 
of the problems which still face us. 

It has been alleged that urbanization in Québec has 


been rapid and is a recent phenomenon. This however is incorrect. 


Since 1871, Ontario and Québec have had basically similar rates 
of urbanization. Differences occurring at certain periods are 
minute in comparison to the rates of urbanization in all other 
provinces. Therefore Québec's urbanization may no longer be 
used to explain the French Canadian's alleged failure to adjust. 
However, was urbanization in Ontario and in Québec 
accompanied by a similar rate of industrialization? The two 
regions have been industrialized, but after different patterns. 
Types of industries are very different: manufacturing industries 
in Ontario produce complex durable goods and require a skilled 
male labour force. Québec's industries produce non-durable 
goods to a much greater extent and require principally a semi- 
skilled female labour force. An industry coming from an English- 


language environment and requiring a highly-skilled labour force 


might well have made the use of the French language, a requisite 
to any fair measure of business activity. Inter-regional compe- 
tition undoubtedly was affected by language differences during the 
process of Central Canada's industrialization. Canadian subsi- 
diaries of foreign enterprises have been invited by the Canadian 
Government and by various Provincial governments to a broader 
concept and a more intensive practice of good corporate citizen- 
ship by allowing Canadians to hold directorship and key managerial 
positions in Canadian Branch companies. Much has been achieved 
in other Provinces in this*direction but in Québec the trend has 
yet to develop. 

It is now becoming obvious to many French Canadians 
that language differences have much to do with our integration into 


industrial, commercial and financial activity and with our eventual 


access to key positions. Until recently, we had not given much 


attention to the problem of language differences. French Canadians 


accepted too easily that they were inadequate in the face of urban 


life and industrialization. 


Since, in Québec, others held the positions of 


entrepreneurs and technocrats, members of our élite tradition- 


ally shunned industry and commerce to become professionals, 


teachers, priests, politicians, civil servants, or, at the most, 


small businessmen. 


Undoubtedly, on seeing the light to-day, we have 


many reasons to blame ourselves. We would not, however, 


be justified in taking all the blame. Urban French Canadians 


are not only the product of their distant history, the admonition of 


their leaders and their own culture. They have lived in a Canadian 


eo 

society which, it appears to them now, never found the means 
of giving them a part to play which called for a full measure 
of their characteristic resourcefulness. 

You, who are embarking upon a new life and who 
are about to take a more active part in the affairs of your Province, 
you may ask yourselves, ''what will French Canadians do to meet 
the requirements of industrial America''? Are way likely to 
prepare, better than heretofore, to play a fuller part? These are 
important questions for you, who graduate today, because French 
Canadians will be your teammates in Québec's future development. 
Before I offer you an answer to this, let me point out a weakness 
which has existed in French Canada, but which is now disappearing: 
the lack of schooling of Québec's youth, Some ten years ago 


our youth did not stay in school as long as other Canadians. 


2 


Today, attendance levels have raised and students 


in Québec's French schools receive better training which pre- 


pares them technically - in mathematics, in science - to fill 


positions calling for industrial, administrative and technical 


skills. Programs in the French school and universities, over 


the last decade, are drawn up to meet the requirements of our 


economy and French institutions of learning are turning out 


increasingly larger numbers of graduates who are prepared to 


shoulder a full measure of responsibility in a modern economy. 


Shall we find the means, now and in the future, 


for all our young people to fulfill their rightful ambitions in 


Québec, each according to his capabilities and legitimate aspi- 


rations? Jt would belie what I have said so far if I were to claim 


that this can be accomplished soon and easily on all fronts. 


« Tin 


All of us might have the natural tendency to say that people 


have the success which they deserve. If this were so, should 


not young French Canadians be able to integrate into the technical 


and administrative levels of corporate enterprises in proportion 


to the percentage of the population which they represent in Québec ? 


For this to be accomplished, they must, however, overcome a 


language barrier! The majority of Québec's graduates, as you 


know, are French-speaking and trained in French. So far, 


English is the working language of corporate administration in 


the Province. This places them under a handicap. It isa serious 


problem and it will be solved only if all of us understand its 


implications for our population in terms of its development. 


The prosperity and progress of the whole of Québec 


determine the level of our individual well-being. English - 


and French-speaking residents of Québec are interdependent. 


Pe 


If the integration of French Canadians into contemporary indus - 


trial life is hampered, because of a conflict between the character 


of our industry and the character of our population, it is the 


whole of Canadian society that is hampered. Residents of Québec, 


French and English, are those who would suffer directly from 


the situation. 


It is high time to question the procedures which 


have been utilized in the past to stimulate the co-operation and 


the competition between our two language groups. It is not our 


feelings for one another that have made us first-and-second- 


class citizens. Neither is it the formal training that we receive 


in English and French institutions of learning. It is, rather, 


the arrangements reached in business and industry which have 


neglected the development of the individual for sake of expediency. 


= A we 


Two conditions are necessary for a second language 


to be learned by large numbers of people: first, the implementa- 


tion of methods for teaching it realistically; and second, the 


economic necessity for using the second language. While we 


must improve methods for teaching both French and English, the 


economic necessity to use French has, in large part, yet to be 


created. 


With time, Québec will become increasingly more 


French. During the present century, Québec's French popula - 


tion has faced the necessity of using English in order to earn a 


living. It was an advantage for English-speaking residents 


to have a knowledge of French, especially in recent years. 


However, with the future trend it will soon become a necessity 


to speak French in order to hold a position of responsitility 


in Québec. English will remain a necessity in positions of 


~1e 
national or continental scope in large enterprises. However, 
the fluent use of English will become less of a general neces - 
sity than at present. 

If we place the matter of our inter-group relations 
in their proper per spective, we shall eventually change our 
ways to suit the requirements of our population. We must there- 
fore work together to bring these changes about and thereby 
strenghten our national unity. 

All residents of the Province must make a serious 
effort to define the contingencies of our special life, to take 
stock of their advantages and disadvantages, and to view possible 
aa recs in long-term perspective. Iam confident that justice 
will guide us in our search. Its principles cannot be sacrificed, 
even unwittingly, to the pursuit of immediate comfort or to 


withdrawal in the presence of temporary discomfort. We must 


ie 


create conditions in our midst that will assure the best per - 


sonal development to the largest number of our people. This 


calls for an intimate knowledge of the characteristics of our 


population and for working towards the fulfillment of their 


aspirations. 


I believe that you, who have received advanced 


training in the humanities, in social knowledge and in the 


physical sciences, will contribute to our search into our human 


problem and to the discovery of solutions for them. It is in 


this respect that your graduation in 1963 has a social meaning 


of great consequence as well as a profound personal significance. 


a ee 


Du: Service de l'information A publier aprés 4h.30 p.m. 
et des publications 


Ministére de la Jeunesse le vendredi 31 mai 1963 


ALLOCUTION DE L'HONORABLE PAUL GERIN-LAJOIE 
lors de la remise d'un doctorat honorifique en Droit de 


l'Université de Montréal, le vendredi 31 mai 1963 


Montréal, le 31 mai 1963 


En lisant, il y a quelque temps, quelques -uns 
des principaux ''mémoires" présentés 4 la Commission royale 
d'enquéte sur l'enseignement dans cette province, il y a une 
‘phrase qui m'a particuliérement frappé. Vous me permettrez 
bien, Monseigneur le Recteur, de citer ici ce passage que 
j'emprunte a l'étude soumise a4 la Commission par l'Université 
Laval, & laquelle tant de liens rattachent notre Université de 
Montréal: 

"Une université du vingtiéme siécle'} écxit -on 
dans ce mémoire, "ne saurait remplir sa fonction premiére, 
si l'enseignement supérieur qu'elle dispense tend a s'éloigner 
des réalités du milieu qu'elle doit servir et ol ses propres 


gradués seront appelés un jour a travailler, chacun dans sa 


sphére propre". 


Cette phrase, A mon sens, touche 4 l'un des 
problémes majeurs qui se posent 4 nos universités, particuliere- 
ment 4 nos universités du Québec: celui de leur adaptation aux 
exigences de la société contemporaine. 

Je n'ai évidemment pas la prétention d'étre le 
premier 4 soulever cette question: la littérature des derniéres 
années sur le rdle des universités porte la marque évidente de 
cette préoccupation; et je sais que les dirigeants de nos propres 
universités en sont conscients. Cependant, j'ai cru qu'il ne 
serait pas inutile d'ajouter 4 tous ces témoignages, celui dtun 
homme, plus plongé dans l'action qu'occupé, dans le silence 
de son cabinet d'étude ov de son laboratoire, a réfléchir sur 
les diverses manifestations de l'activité contemporaine. 

C'est un truisme, c'est devenu m@éme une cons - 


tatation banale, que d'affirmer que le monde du vingtiéme siécle 


connait une véritable révolution, que notre propre société 
québecoise connait des changements profonds qui viennent 
bouleverser ses structures, modifier radicalement ses modes 
de vie et opposer, en quelque sorte, 4 ses valeurs tradition- 
nelles, considérées souvent comme immuables, des valeurs 
nouvelles, dont l'insertion dans son patrimoine crée des inquié- 
tudes et suscite chez plusieurs de véritables crises de cons- 
cience. 

En effet, c'est bien la l'un des plus graves pro- 
blemes de l'heure que cette prise de conscience des changements, 
dont la soudaineté et l'ampleur ont pris comme par surprise, 
le monde occidental et, plus particuliérement, notre propre 
milieu du Québec, ot largement replié sur soi-méme, 3 l'abri 


de la plupart des influences et des grands courants de pensée 


+ oo 

extérieurs, on s'était habitué & un bonheur paisible, reposant 
sur des valeurs simples et que l'on n'avait rarement mises 
en doute. 

Mais, subitement, c'est comme si, depuis quel- 
ques années, un vent de libération s'était mis 4 souffler sur 
le monde avec une certaine violence. Aucune sockkis nty échappe, 
la notre pas plus que les autres, de méme qu'aucune classe et 
qu'aucun secteur de l'activité humaine. Le jack est rejeté 
violemment par les uns; il devient pous les autres le temple 
sacré ot les valeurs traditionnelles, les seules acceptables a 
leurs yeux, doivent étre déposées comme dans un refuge invio- 
lable et rester ainsi le seul objet de contemplation de l'esprit 
humain et la source inépuisable de sa quiétude. 

Ce phénoméne de réactions contraires en face 


de l'évolution est évidemment vieux comme le monde: c'est la 


se 
division entre ceux qui, avides de progrés et impatients dtat - 
teindre leur but, considérent, comme un poids et un obstacle, 
le patrimoine légué par les générations antérieures, et ceux qui, 
-méme stils ne refusent pas de facon abstraite la notion de pro- 
grés, s'en effraient et recherchent la sécurité dans la conserva- 
tion absolue des structures sociales traditionnelles et dew valeurs 
qui en sont l'expression. 

Dans cette lutte, souvent violente, qui n'oppose 
qu'une faible fraction du peuple, il y a toute la multitude des gens 
ordinaires qui s'étonne, qui s'interroge, qui prend parti pour 
une faction ou pour une autre, de fagon instinctive et qui, au 
demeurant, reste inquiéte et ballottée au gré des courants les 
plus divers. 

Il y a aussi le groupe restreint de ceux qui se 


rendent bien compte de ce qui se passe, mais dont les devoirs 


Pg ae 
sont si nombreux et les responsabilités si lourdes qu'ils n'ont 
pas le temps d'apporter 4 l'étude de cette grave situation 
l'effort de réflexion qu'elle exige. C'est 1A, 4 mon sens, 
mesdames et messieurs, l'un des aspects les plus tragiques de 
cet état de choses: en effet, dans le désarroi des idées, c'est 
de ces personnes, placées aux postes de commande des grands 
secteurs de la vie sociale, autorités religieuses, dirigeants 
politiques, chefs d'entreprises, leaders ouvriers, hommes 
d'oeuvre, que l'on attend les directives claires, les orientations 
nettes. 

Or, il est certain que seule une collaboration 
étroite entre les individus qui, particuliérement dans les univer - 
sités, ont pour mission de poursuivre constamment la recherche 
sereine et réfléchie de la vérité, tout comme d'établir les 


fondements ordonnés du progrés, et les personnes qui, 


= 7a 
aux premiers rangs de l'action, ont la responsabilité de diriger 
la société, seule cette collaboration facilitera et rendra possible 
la poursuite d'objectifs sociaux, économiques, culturels et 
‘religieux nettement définis et clairement compris. 

Les universités, et particuliérement les univer - 
sités de notre province, ont donc 4 cet égard un rdle primordial 
a jouer. On oublie trop souvent, et peut-étre l'oublie-t-on 
aussi dans les universités, que celles-ci constituent un secteur 
particulier de la société, en ce sens qu'elles ne doivent pas 
étre engagées dans les remous quotidiens de la vie sociale, 
méme si elles en subissent inévitablement les contre-coups; 
elles font partie, et il faut le rappeler fréquemment, des ins- 
titutions supérieures de la nation. D'autre part, pitt appartien - 


nent aA une société donnée et A une époque donnée; et c'est dans 
se | 


cette perspective que la citation que je vous livrais au début 


de mon allocution, mesdames et messieurs, prend tout son sens. 


En effet, ''une université du vingtiéme siécle ne saurait remplir 


sa mission, si l'enseignement supérieur qu'elle dispense tend 


& s'éloigner des réalités", réalités des hommes d'aujourd'‘hui, 


"du milieu'', de la société dans laquelle elle s'insére et qu'elle 


doit servir. 


La premiére et la meilleure fagon, pour les 


universités en général, mais spécialement pour nos universités 


de langue francaise, de servir adéquatement cette fin, c'est de 


préserver et d'accroftre la qualité académique des services 


qu'elles peuvent et doivent rendre. L'‘université moderne, 


particuliérement dans le milieu nord-américain, s'est peut-étre, 


sous la pression des circonstances et de certains groupes influents, 


« Oke 
cru obligée de trop multiplier et de trop diversifier les ensei- 
gnements, croyant ainsi rendre service. Elle s'est engagée 
dans des secteurs d'enseignement ou d'activité ot d'autres ins - 
titutions, d'un type différent et spécialement préparées, auraient 
donné des résultats équivalents, sinon meilleurs. Elles ont 
ainsi parfois non seulement contribué d'elles-mémes & abaisser 
les normes de leur enseignement et la qualité académique des 
services qu'elles devaient rendre, mais elles ont aussi empéché 
la nation de se donner l'équipement scolaire répondant le mieux 
&% ses besoins. Je ne puis m'empécher ici de citer ce passage 
d'une étude faite, il y a quelques années aux Etats-Unis: 
"Je ne vois pas pourquoi chaque univer sité tenterait PaReeigner 
et d'étudier toute chose. Plusieurs matitres ne me semblent 
pas avoir atteint le stade de l'enseignement, et pourtent nous 


nous sommes lancés avec ardeur dans leur enseignement. 


ails 
D'tautres ne peuvent étre abordées avec compétence que si on 
les enseigne en un nombre restreint d'endroits. Il répugne 
de constater la prolifération infinie des cours". 

En concentrant ainsi leurs efforts sur ce qui 
est proprement universitaire, c'est-a-dire 4 ces secteurs 
de la formation, de la réflexion et cy la recherche du niveau 
le plus élevé, les universités, et par la j'entends surtout les 
universitaires, pourront apporter aux hommes plongés dans 
l'action la contribution la plus utile et devenir les collaborateurs 
essentiels de ceux qui ont la responsabilité de diriger la société. 
En effet, livrés aux seules taches qui sont du ressort de l'uni- 
versité, les professeurs formeront des hommes et des femmes 
mieux préparés et capables d'assumer dans les divers secteurs 
de l'activité sociale, des rdles de plus en plus nombreux, de plus 


en plus importants. 


ARTS 


Or, l'apport de cette contribution est devenu 


d'une extréme urgence dans cette province. L'élévation du 


niveau politique, l'amélioration de la fonction publique, la mise 


en oeuvre de nos vastes ressources, le progrés de nos entre- 


prises, le rendement accru de nos divers groupes de producteurs, 


lfaccession de notre population 4 des niveaux de culture et d'ins- 


truction de plus en plus élevés, tout cela n'est possible, que si 


vraiment nos universités concentrent leurs efforts afin de four - 


nir une authentique formation supérieure. 


En outre, en se tenant le plus possible aux fonc- 


tions qui sont de leur ressort, les universités pourront per - 


mettre a leur personnel académique de consacrer beaucoup plus 


utilement leur temps 4 la publication d'oeuvres et 4 la poursuite 


de recherches qui exercent une influence certaine sur notre 


ae. 
milieu québecois et contribuent 4 éclairer la population sur la 
nature et les effets de notre évolution. Ainsi les universités 
faciliteront grandement le réle des dirigeants qui pourront, 
dans une meilleure compréhension générale des objectifs fixés, 
orienter les développements nouveaux et opérer les changements 
qui s'imposent dans les divers secteurs de notre activité sociale, 
culturelle, économique et politique. 

Voila ce que la population et tous ceux qui, a 
divers titres, ont regu la charge d'assurer son bien-@étre, 
attendent de nos universités. Puis-je exprimer le voeu que nos 
univer sités frangaises, qui ont rendu a notre collectivité tant de 
services, et souvent dans des conditions d'existence trés péni- 
bles, constituent au sein de la société une présence sans cesse 
renouvelée de la pensée contemporaine. 


_— 


