Fsb2odo-wsd3. 290M 2S = 


MS >2>H]QOQO0RV 


f, a 


FOR YOUR UNFORM< JN 


Montreal YMCA International Programs 


July 2000 


PROFILE: THE ACJ/YMCA OF ECUADOR 


The YMCA/ACJ was 
established in Ecuador in 
1959 and has an active 
presence in the communi- 
ties of Quito, Machala, 
Portoviego, Chone and 
Santo Dominigo de los 
Colorados. 


As Germanico Pinto, for- 
mer chairman of the 
board of the Ecuador 
ACJ, so eloquently point- 
ed out during a recent 
talk at the Downtown 
YMCA in Montreal, the 
YMCA in Ecuador is not 
a recreation centre, it is a 
vehicle of empowerment 
for the poor; for youth, 
women and the disenfran- 
chised. 


Due to the rapid urban- 
ization process in 
Ecuador, there is a large 
population of poor people 
in the urban areas, living 
without water or sewage 
systems. The ACJ works 
in these neighbourhoods 
to help the people under- 
stand their rights and 
responsibilities, to evalu- 
ate the needs of their 
communities and to orga- 
nize in order to voice 
their concerns to the 
appropriate government 
powers. 


For more information, contact: 
Sheila Laursen or Julie Madore 
International Programs, 
Montreal YMCA 

1441, rue Drummond, 5th Floor 
tel.: 849 - 5331, ext. 264 

email: sheila_laursen@ymca.ca 


{ ACJ works in neighbourhood 
development with other social orga- 
nizations in a number of different areas. 
The ACJ has published neighbourhood 
leadership manuals that help with that 
community development process. They 
also work in improving housing, basic 
services and the environment. In the area 
of health, they train health promoters in 
health education and preventive medi- 
cine. The ACJ is very active in youth 
development and also trains community 
mothers to work in the government day 
care centres which are managed by the 
ACJ. 


The ACJ of Ecuador has become known 
worldwide for its innovative and effec- 
tive youth programs. They believe that 
youth have the right to live with dignity 
without discrimination due to age or sex, 
that they have social, civil and political 
rights and that their opinions count. 
They recognize youth's knowledge and 
feelings and help them develop the skills 
necessary to take an active role within 
their community and country. The ACJ 
participates in The Acuerdo Nacional 
Juvenil del Ecuador (ANJ), a youth net- 
work that works for the rights of the 
child. The ANJ organized a youth event, 
“Peace is Youth”, involving youth orga- 
nizations from Peru and Ecuador to 
work towards creating a “culture of 
peace” that would end the border dis- 
putes between their two countries. 


The ACJ has formed the Cultural 
Caravan "Frog Family" to promote 
human rights. Youth volunteers present 
cultural and artistic activities that deal 
with youth and children's issues and 
nights. This Cultural Caravan has toured 
Colombia and is featured at the Youth 
Pavilion of Hope at Expo 2000 in 
Germany this year. 


The ACJ of Ecuador has also created a 
Casa da la Juventud, an alternative youth 
space managed by young people them- 
selves and where youth volunteerism, 
leadership training, employment initia- 


tives and citizen participation are pro- 
moted. 


Every summer, the ACJ of Ecuador 
trains young people to work as volunteer 
monitors with children in day camps in 
poor neighbourhoods of Quito, Chone, 
Portoviejo, Santo Domingo and 
Machala. The success of their pre- 
school programs led the ACJ to estab- 
lish a primary school, offering 80 stu- 
dents a more complete education than is 
currently available. 


The YMCA also focuses on environ- 
mental education; its youth ecology 
clubs do hands on work in an Ecology 
Park. 


Youth volunteers organize regular 
video-forums and do radio broadcasts 
weekly to reach out to the youth in cities 
such as Santo Domingo de los 
Colorados. 


The YMCA/ACJ recognizes the impor- 
tance of global cooperation in its work 
and has developed mutually rewarding 
relationships with the YMCAs of 
Montreal, the USA, Germany, Peru, 
Ireland, Spain and Switzerland. The 
three year "Children At Risk" project 
was a partnership between the Montreal 
YMCA and the ACJ of Ecuador; it 
developed "Hands Up!, a children's 
rights educational manual. The ACJ of 
Ecuador produces and distributes the 
Spanish version, "Manos Arriba" while 
the Montreal YMCA offers the English 
and French editions. 


The YMCA/ACJ of Ecuador is a strong 
community organization. It relies main- 
ly on volunteers to carry out its work, 
with youth taking a major role. The ACJ 
believes in the potential of youth and 
knows that by educating, developing, 
investing in and empowering the young 
people of Ecuador, a more just society 
can be created in their country in the 
future. 


BRIGADISTA DIARY 


On June 26, Julie Madore (International Programs) and Sean Curran 
(Pointe-St-Charles YMCA) arrived in Honduras for an eight week stay. 
The remaining five members of the Brigadista Team will be joining them 
on July 22 for three weeks. 


Julie and Sean have been sending emails highlighting their experience as 
it unfolds. The following are excerpts from their communications... 


June 27 


We got here fine, our accomodations are perfect and we already have a 
great schedule for the week. We visited the reconstruction project and it is 
great. They are trying hard to really build a new village in a participato- 
ry way. It is really like building a new life. 


Everbody here is so welcoming and friendly. 
June 29 


We are visiting project after project and starting to help out a little bit. 
Last night we went with a group of youth to install garbage cans in a 
neighbourhood in '‘reconsruction’. I guess there is always a certain 
amount of reconstruction going on. People seem to be fixing and building 
a lot in the poor colonias. The group was absolutely amazing and hard 
working. They have been volunteering for a year now. On the 23rd and 
24 th, just after (the rest of ) the Brigadista arrive, there is a leadership 
camp organized for youth from the ACJ. I plan for the Brigadista to par- 
ticipate. Next week we are off to Marcala and Taulabe (two rural areas of 
Honduras). 


July 8 


These past two weeks have been very interesting. We have been very busy 
visiting the various YMCA projects going on in and around Tegucigalpa 
and it looks like this summer is going to be a lot of fun. In fact, people here 
are so excited about your arrival (the rest of the Brigadista Team) Julie 
and I were even interviewed on the radio! 


The way things appear right now, it looks like our time here will be divid- 
ed into two parts. For the first week we will be working at a youth center 
in the colonia of San Francisco in Tegucigalpa. We have already been to 
visit it and it looks like it will be a great experience. For the last two weeks 
we will be working on renovating the new youth center in a small town 
called Marcala. We spent the last couple of days there and the people were 
really great. During our stay we will be staying with families. 


Look for the continuation of the Brigadista Diary in the next issue of "For 
Your Information”. 


World March of Women 2000 


Montreal YMCA International Programs 
will be holding workshops in YMCA cen- 
tres from July to October concerning the 
demands of the World March of Women 
2000. These half-day sessions will include 
reflection and discussion on the effects of 
poverty and violence against women and 
possible solutions. Banners for the World 
March of Women will be made by the par- 
ticipants. These workshops are open to all 
women, youth and men who wish to partic- 
ipate in the upcoming World March of 
Women 2000. All those interested in 
attending a session should phone Julie 
Madore or Sheila Laursen at International 
Programs, 849-5331, ext. 264 for more 
information on the dates and centres which 
will be involved. 


Here are the special activities planned by 
the Marche mondiale des femmes, 
Coalition de I'ile de Montreal for the week 
of Oct. 9 to October 13, 2000. 


Monday Oct. 9 


March decision: The Montreal YMCA will 
not be participating in these activities in 
respect for Yom Kippur which falls on the 
same day. 


Tuesday Oct. 10 
March in the West end of Montreal 


Theme: Redistribution of wealth to help 
eliminate women's poverty. 


Wednesday Oct. 11 
March in the North end of Montreal 


Theme: The elimination of discrimina- 
tion against all women. 


Thursday Oct 12 
March in the East end of Montreal 


Theme: Estabish laws that protect the 
rights of women 


Friday Oct 13 - 


Full Moon Night March “Take back the 
night march” to Parc Lafontaine 


Celebration to close the events of the 
week, with performances by singers, 
dancers, etc. 


