FbB2zo=-sB2amMsxS= 


HM SBAGDOAN 


DEVELOPMENT WEEK 
FEBRUARY 5-9 2001 


The Montreal YMCA's 
International Programs 
celebrated International 
Development Week by 
focusing on two solidarity 
actions; Fair Trade and 
Emergency Relief Efforts. 
The Montreal YMCA in 
collaboration with OXFAM- 
QUEBEC hosted a photo 
exhibition and Fair Trade 
coffee tasting at the new 
Downtown YMCA, Feb. 
5,6, & 7. The Montreal 
YMCA is also continuing 
its El Salvador Relief 
fundraising campaign in all 
the YMCA Centres. Look 
for information on 
International Development, 
Fair Trade and the El 
Salvador Relief campaign 
in your YMCA Centre. 


Y 


YMCA 


We build strong kids, 
strong families, 
Strong communities 


For more information, contact: 
Sheila Laursen or Caterina Milani 
International Programs, 

Montreal YMCA 

1435, rue Drummond, 6th Floor 
tel.: 849 - 5331, ext. 264 

email: sheila_laursen@ymca.ca 


lo ae 
FOR YOUR INFORMATION 


Montreal YMCA International Programs February 2001 


“wero GLOBALISATION 


The deteriorating world situation caused by the forces of economic glob- 
alisation has created the need for global action. As citizens of the world, 
we cannot tolerate the inequality, poverty, discrimination, unemploy- 
ment and exclusion experience by the majority of the world's people 
while the richest 20% of the world own 82% of the income and the poor- 
est 20% share 1.4%. 


i ies worldwide YMCA movement has been promoting global actions that pur- 
sue economic justice and the right to development of all peoples, based on 
equity and justice. The YMCA has been active participants at United Nations 
conferences, as well as at the Copenhagen +5 and Beijing +5 meetings. The fol- 
lowing is an extract from a document presented by the YMCA at Beijing +5: 


"The World Alliance of YMCAs considers that poverty is not related only to the 
lack of means for subsistence, but it deeply affects the dignity of human beings. 
Without the fulfillment of basic material needs it is not possible to fully exercise 
citizen's rights, which include the right to live with economic security and well- 
being. Our mission calls us to contribute to build a more just, equitable and sol- 
idary world for women and men. Therefore we are concerned about the human 
rights of all those peoples affected by the current global economic system. As 
members of the community of peoples who stand for justice, we express our deep 
disagreement with the exclusion of women from exercising their full rights. 


To face this situation, it is necessary to look for solutions that seek the redistrib- 
ution of richness and respect for women's integrity and human rights. We recog- 
nize that urgent action is needed to ensure: 


©The cancellation of the foreign debt of the impoverished countries, which pre- 
vents them from achieving economic and social development; 


=>That the policies of cooperation, financing and credit should not impose unac- 
ceptable conditions for peoples' right to development 


That conditions for debt cancellation should clearly state that the money 
released from interest payments will be used to advance women's situation 


The YMCA has joined the International Campaign to Ban Landmines and the 
Global March Against Child Labour. YMCA members have also promoted debt 
cancellation through the Jubilee 2000 Campaign. More recently, the YMCA co- 
founded the Ecumenical Coalition for Alternatives to Globalisation. We must 
continue seeking alternatives at all levels: local, national, regional and global. 
The future of the world and all its peoples depends on our collective efforts and 
actions." 


sas an CLO TRE CITROEN ETRE EN OL I RPE ASOT ENE A ERE TE PNAS OE EDEN LPL I TT OEE I TT I OEY 


sramersecy 


INTERNATIONAL YEAR OF THE VOLUNTEER 


ar Reh TOE SBI NORBERT TCIM ALES EDO RMB TET EEL LY NEEL NN TIEN EAH TY IIS ELE EIEN wee 


gyrewnna ener erwte 


THE IMPACT OF GLOBALISATION ON DEVELOPING COUNTRIES 


The following is a summary of the address given at the YMCA of Argentina in July 2000 by Ignacio Ramonet, 


Director of "Le Monde Diplomatique", Paris: 


Be key - and intertwined - phenomena characterize our 
planet. All states participate in the dynamics of globali- 
sation and, at the same time, the world is witness to the rev- 
olution of information. We are living a second capitalist rev- 
olution: globalisation. This refers to the ever-increasing 
interdependence and intertwining of economics from many 
countries, in particular the financial sector. The free circula- 
tion of capital is absolute and enables this sector to dominate 
the economy. 


Globalisation extends to all corners of the world, and ignores 
or overlooks the rights and rules of individuals and compa- 
nies as well as the independence of peoples or the diversity 
of political regimes. 


Financial markets can dictate their laws to companies and 
states. In this new political-economic scene, the financier 
prevails over the entrepreneur; what is global, over what is 
national, and markets over the state. 


Globalisation is accompanied by a daunting process of 
destruction: entire industries disappear in all regions with the 
ensuing social suffering which this causes; fierce exploita- 
tion of men, women and, even more scandalous, children: 
300 million children are exploited in the world. 


Globalisation also involves ecological devastation. Large 
companies plunder the environment in unrestrained ways. 
They profit indiscriminately and unscrupulously from the 
natural wealth that represents the common good of 
humankind. 


In more than 70 countries, the average income per capita is 
today less than 20 years ago. At world level one child out of 
every two suffers from malnutrition. 


The number of people living in poverty is larger than ever 
and the distance in relative terms between developed coun- 
tries and developing countries has never been so great. The 


gap that separates the North from the South is today so 
large that it is difficult to imagine how it could disappear. 


We can witness with satisfaction that in the last 20 years 
more than 100 countries freed themselves from military 
and single-party regimes and that, for the first time in his- 
tory, most of humanity lives in a democracy. However, 
economic disaster endangers the progress of civil liberties 
in many developing countries. 


When a democratic government intends to protect its 
national companies and develops a policy favouring 
growth and employment by reducing the profits of large 
companies and tolerating a small increase in inflation, 
international investors will immediately accuse it of pro- 
tectionism and impose sanctions against the country, 
either by striking against its currency, or by massively 
selling shares of their companies. This brutal reaction pro- 
vokes a crisis and makes it impossible to implement poli- 
cies democratically adopted by its citizens. 


In conclusion, globalisation builds dual societies. On the 
one hand, a group of the privileged and hyperactive and, 
on the other, a huge mass of the unemployed and margin- 
alized, living in precarious conditions. 


When are we going to understand and accept that equity 
and social justice, far from being obstacles to develop- 
ment, really favour, in the medium and long term, eco- 
nomic efficiency, trade expansion and prosperity of com- 
panies? Measures of wealth redistribution need to be 
adopted in order to facilitate the access of the poor to 
income, while policies that stimulate the involvement of 
the poor in social and economic life should also be imple- 
mented. 


Only in this way will we succeed in humanizing globali- 
sation and making it compatible with a greater under- 
standing of democracy and human dignity 


MONTREAL YMCA INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE 


he Montreal YMCA's International Programs now has a support committee with representatives from most YMCA 

Centres. This committee meets monthly to discuss ideas, plans, and activities to integrate International Programs a part 
of the life of each YMCA Centre. We wish to thank all those that came forward to take on extra work and responsibility to 
promote International Programs in their Centres. 


We urge anyone interested in supporting the Montreal YMCA's international partnerships to contact the committee repre- 
sentative in their Centre. 


The representatives are; YMCA Centre-ville, Annie Murray (Coordonnatrice du Centre Jeunesse) 849-8393, ext. 335, 
YMCA du Parc, Beatriz Franco (Préposé au service a la clientéle) 271-3437, ext. 206, YMCA Guy-Favreau, Diane 
Paulin ( Préposé au service a la clientéle) 845-4277, YMCA Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Michel Forgues (Intervenant 
Communautaire), 255-3495, ext.36,. YMCA NDG, Sharon Parry (Coordonnatrice programme aquatique et préscolaire) 
486-3273, ext. 231,YMCA St-Laurent Oneyda Arias, (Coordonnatrice Approche-Quartrier) 747-9801, ext. 237, YMCA 
West Island, Diane Lévesque (Directrice Développement Communautaire) 694-9622, ext. 234 and in the Westmount 
YMCA, Chris Craig (Coordonnateur des programmes jeunesse) 93 1- 6770, ext. 237. 


At the moment we do not have a representative from the Point-St-Charles YMCA and would welcome anyone interested 
in filling that role to join us. For more information about this committee, phone Caterina Milani at 849-5331, ext 264. 


