“The Y.M.C.A. is a world-wide fellowship of men and boys united by a 
common loyalty to Jesus Christ for the purpose of developing Christian 
personality and building a Christian Society." ~— laternationel Cleveland Convention 1931 


ONE HUNDRED AND FOURTH 


ANNUAL REPORT 


1955 


YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION 
OF MONTREAL 


AGENDA 
ANNUAL MEETING 
OF THE 
YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 
MONDAY, APRIL 16TH, 1956, AT 5:00 P.M. 
BUDGE HALL, Y.M.C.A., 1441 DRUMMOND STREET 


CHAIRMAN = F.B. WALLS, 

PRESIDENT, 

Y.M.C.A. OF MONTREAL 
le DEVOTIONAL EXERCISES eeereeteeeereeaneeeeeeree er MURRAY B. SHANTZ, 

: Assistant Metropolitan 

Program Secretary and 
Director of Kamp Kanawana. 

2e  PRESIDENT'S REMARKS 
Se ADOPTION OF THE MINUTES OF THE LAST ANNUAL MEETING: 


MOVED BY: 
SECONDED BY: 


4. REPORT OF THE HONORARY TREASURER eecoceeseesee T. DENTON LEWIS 
5e REPORT OF THE GENERAL SECRETARY ..sccsceseeeee FRED G. HUBBARD 
6. MOTION TO ADOPT THE REPORTS: 


MOVED BY: 
SECONDED BY: 


7- REPORT OF THE NOMINATING COMMITTEE AND 
ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; 


MOVED BY: 
SECONDED BY: 


8. APPOINTMENT OF AUDITORS: 


MOVED BY: 
SECONDED BY: 


Qe SUCH OTHER BUSINESS AS MAY PROPERLY COME BEFORE THE MEETING 
10. ANNOUNCEMENT: BRIEF MEETINGS OF THE METROPOLITAN BOARD AND THE 
CORPORATION OF SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS COLLEGE AT TRE 
CLOSE OF THIS ANNUAL MEETING 


ll. ADJOURNMENT 


ANNUAL REPORT 1955 


ITEM INDEX PAGE 
ig INTRODUCTION le 
Hibs OUR METROPOLITAN ORGANI ZATION Se 
Lite PROGRAM: 
Program Modernization Project 5e 
Staff Development Series 6. 
Clubs and Groups be 
Informal Education Te 
Branch Formal Education 8. 
Health and Physical Fitness 86 
Sir George Williams College 
(Extra-curricular activities) 86 
Summer = camps Se 
- city day camps 10. 
IV. BRANCH CHAIRMEN'S COMMITTEE 10. 
V. SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS COLLEGE & SCHOOLS die 
VI. PERSONAL SERVICES 13. 
VII. OUR CHRISTIAN EMPHASTS 14. 
Wah MEMORIALS COMMITTEE 15. 
IX. MEMBERSHIP 16. 
Xe CITY-WIDE COOPERATION 17. 
XI. FINANCE AND PROPERTY 18. 
XII. PERSONNEL 20. 
XIII. NATIONAL COUNCIL 2260 
XIV. WORLD SERVICES 236 
XV. THE WRLD'S ALLIANCE 246 
XVI. OBI TUARY 266 
XVII. APPRECIATION 276 
XVIII. CONC LUSI ON 286 


STATISTICAL RECORD 


BALANCE SHEET 


AUDI TORS? REPORT OFFICERS AND MEMBERS OF THE 


STATEMENT OF INCOME 
STATEMENT OF EXPENDITURE 


NOMINATING COMMITTEE 


REPORT 


BOARD OF DIRECTORS & 
ADVISORY BOARD 


I. 


THE ONE HUNDRED AND FOURTH ANNUAL REPORT 
OF THE 
YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 
FOR THE YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31ST, 1955 


INTRODUCTION 


Your Board of Directors do herewith submit the Annual 
Report of the Young Men's Christian Association of Montreal for 
the year ending December 3lst, 1955, in accordance with the 
requirements of the Constitution. 


This report covers matters of general interest affecting 
the Montreal Association as a whole. Detailed reports of all 
Branches have already been submitted and approved at individual 
branch meetings, and are included in their records. 


The building expansion program, made possible by the 
Capital Funds Campaign in 1952, neared completion, with the 
opening of the new Sir George Williams College Building antic- 
ipated early in 1956. In an official ceremony, last June, 
Mr. F.B. Walls, President of the Y.M.C.A. of Montreal, laid 
the cornerstone of the new building. 


Considerable progress was made towards the goal of program 
modernization in the Association during 1955. 


Three hundred and thirty Canadian delegates, including many 
from Montreal, attended the Paris Centennial Conference of the 
World's Alliance of YMCAs. In the city where the first meeting of 
the World's Alliance was held 100 years ago, they met with delegates 
from all parts of the world to take part together in conferences, 
worship, assemblies and sports competitions. 


In 1955, men and nations sought to draw closer to each other 
and achieve a more stable world. The Y.M.C.A+ of Montreal acted in 
this spirit at home and in World Service. 


IT. 


3 


OUR METROPOLITAN ORGANIZATION 


The Montreal Young Men's Christian Association operates 
in Greater Montreal in nine self-governing branches, the Sir 
George Williams College and Schools, three summer camps and a 
ski lodge. 


Five branches are located in buildings equipped with gym- 
nasia and swimming pools and owned by the Y.M.C.A. These are 
Central Branch, 1441 Drummond Street; Notre Dame de Grace 


Branch, 4665 Hampton Avenue; International Branch, 5550 Park 
Avenue; Southwestern Branch, 1000 Gordon Avenue, Verduns and 


Westmount Branch, 4585 Sherbrooke Street West, Westmount. 


Northmount Branch is located in a community-type building 
(administration, office, lounge, club and all-purpose rooms) and 
is situated at 1455 Rochon Street, Ville St. Laurent. Lachine 
Branch, 3955 Provost Street, Lachine, is located in a similar 


pbuilding. 


Branches which make use of rented quarters and facilities 
in the communities they serve are Northeastern Branch, formerly 
Rosemount Branch, in Nesbitt School, 3001 Rosemount Boulevard; 
and Montreal East Branch in Montreal East School, St. Cyr Street, 
Montreal Bast. 


In addition to the locations where branch headquarters are 
found, the following communities are being served: 

Central Branch - Pointe Claire, St. Lambert 
and Valois 

International Branch - Park Extension 

Lachine Branch = Central Park and Dorval 

Montreal East Branch - Champlain Village and 
Tetreaultville 

Northeastern Branch = Montreal North, Montrose 
and Ville St. Michel 

Northmount Branch - Cartierville and Town of 
Mount Royal 

Southwestern Branch - Cote St. Paul, Crawford 
Park and Ville La Salle 


II. 


OUR_ METROPOLITAN ORGANIZATION (cont'd) 
a nae tla a 


Sir George Williams College and Schools, which serve 
the entire Metropolitan area, will be consolidated in the new 
College Building, 1435 Drummond Street, and the Central Branch 
Building early in 1956, 


Camp Otoreke, a summer vacation camp for young adults, 
is situated sixty-five miles north of Montreal at Lake St, 
Joseph, near Ste. Agathe des Monts. The island property is 
owned by the Y.M.C.A. of Montreal and was the site of the first 
Y.M.C.A. camp established in 1892, 


Kamp Kanawana, a summer vacation camp for boys eight 
to sixteen years of age, covers sixty acres of woodland and 
lakes on property owned by the Association near St. Sauveur, 
about fifty miles north of the City. 


Camp Perrot, a summer holiday camp for boys and girls 
between the ages of ten and sixteen years, is located on forty- 
five acres of Y.M.C.A.-owned land on Ile Perrot, twenty-five 
miles west of Montreal. 


The Christieville Ski Lodge, at Christieville, Quebec, 
is a winter camp for young adults located approximately fifty 
miles north of Montreal. Its two lodges are also the property 
of the Y.M.C.A. of Montreal, 


The management of the Association is vested in the Metros 
Olitan Board of Directors, This body of elected members has 
supervision and control of the work and policy of the Association, 
Standing committees of the Board include Executive, Finance and 
Property, World Service, Program, Public Relations, Branch x 
Chairmen's and Memorials, 


The management of each branch is vested in a Board of 
Management, This body represents the membership in formulating 
and establishing policy and plans in keeping with general YMCA 
purpose and overall policy of the Metropolitan Board of Directors, 
and in order to meet the needs of youth served by the Branche 
Appropriate committees within each branch are appointed by and 
responsible to the Board of Management. 


The affairs of the College are managed by the Board of 


Governors of Sir George Williams College and Schools, 


Elke 


5e 
PROGRAM 
Program Modernization Project; 


In recent years building improvements, new buildings 
and expansion have modernized e facilities o e Montreal 
Y.M.C.A. As this was achieved, it seemed reasonable to ask, 
"What would happen if in the next few years we devoted as much 
time amd energy to modernizing our program?" 


Realizing the constantly changing setting of the 
Montreal Association in its many branches and outreaches, in 
January 1955, the Metropolitan Board authorized, on the recom= 
mendation of the Metropolitan Program Committee, that a Program 


Retooling Project to reeexamine the purpose of our program and 


modernize its methods be undertaken, 


Seven essential steps were visualized in this under- 
taking: 

1. To redefine objectives in program. 

2. To accumulate program materials consistent 
with the objectives. 

5. To train staff and leaders in the use of 
these materials. 

4. To apply them in specific situations. 

5. To evaluate the results obtained, 

6. To revise the materials and methods to more 
adequately achieve the objectives, 

7. To embody the results of the previous steps 
into the permanent administration and 
program of the Association, 


Step One - Last April, 50 members of the College administrative 
staff and city-wide staff met for a Conference at Christieville. 
Their purpose was to examine the "Why?” rather than the "What? 
or "How?" of the program of the Montreal Y.M.C.A. They sought 

to define in specific terms what the Association is endeavouring 
to achieve in the lives of members and participants. As a result 
of this Conference, some basic propositions were developed with 
regard to program. It was felt that, "The purpose of the program 


is to provide an opportunity for individuals to grow to maturity 
and to enrich their lives in the following respects: 

1. Physical Health 

2 Intellectual Competence and Integrity 

5. Emotional Stability 

4. Sociability 


5¢ Moral Responsibility 
6. Spiritual Vitality 


66 
III. PROGRAM (cont'd) 


The meaning in specific terms of these objectives 
is being examined and expanded in detail so that a clear under-= 
standing of what constitutes good program consistent with these 
aims is being developed. 


The Program Modernization Project is the most funda- 
mental, vital self-examination ever undertaken by the Montreal 
Y.M.C.A. It's task will be on-going, as long as the contemporary 
world of man presents challenges to individual lives. As the 
seven steps of the plan are carried out, the impact of their 
influences on the Association program will depend upon the degree 
to which Branch Boards, Staff and Leaders and Members become 
familiar with the purposes and methods of the undertaking, and 
take steps to embody them in the policies and programs of the 
Association, 


In conjunction with the Project, Staff Development 
received a new importance during 1955. 


Staff Development Series: 


The Staff Development Committee arranged regular City- 
Wide Staff Meetings during the year, for lectures, skill sessions, 
and discussions. The aims and processes of the Program Project 
were shared so that staff members might consider their specific 
programs in the light of these aims. An Executive Workshop was 
held for members of College and Branch Administrative Staff where 
plans were made to develop administrative changes that would help 
achieve specific program aims in the Branch setting, 


Clubs and Groups: 


Small Fellowship Groups continued as a vital medium 
for individual growth and cooperation during 1955. In many instances, 
these were the basis for beginning program in a new area neigh- - 
bouring to the YMCA building. All of the Purpose Clubs contrib- 
uted to the life of their communities through valuable service 
projects in 1955, 


III. PROGRAM (cont'd) 


Twenty-six Senior Hi-Y Clubs for boys and girls 
15 = 18 were active in the Protestant High Schools of Montreal. 
Three new clubs were formed during the year. 


The number of Junior Hi-Y Clubs, for the 14 = 15 
age groups increased from 16 in 1954 to 29 in 1955, 


Gra-Y Clubs, for elementary school children 10 = 14, 
numbered 54, in contrast to 40 the previous year. 


Three Phiat and Phalanx Clubs, for young women and 


young men 18 = 24, were again active. 


During 1955, the Southwestern Branch Y's Men's Club 
was chartered by Westmount Branch Y's Men's Club. 


The Montreal Foremen's Club, composed of 525 supers 


visors in industry, is the largest of its type in Canada. 


Neighbourhood Y Clubs, for boys and girls 10 = 14 
were active, 


These clubs enjoy program suggestions and manuals 
supplied by National Council, but adapted for the individual 
groupe 


The total number of clubs and interest groups was 
1,01], an increase of 98 over 1954, The enrolment was 25,041 
and the attendance 273, 706. 


Informal Education: 


1,986 people enrolled for informal education activities 
and the total attendance was 43,650. This includes an attendance 
of 11,064 at lecture-forums and study groups. Educational outings 
and trips were enjoyed by 7,291 people. 


So-Ed Clubs, with outstanding lectures, craft oppor- 
tunities and recreation for adults, were held in 3 of the Branches. 


The libraries operated by Central, International, 
Southwestern and Westmount Branches, circulated 16,066 volumes. 
The circulation of Sir George Williams College library totalled 
76,056 books. 


III. 


8. 


PROGRAM (cont'd) 


Branch Formal Education: 


English and French classes for New Canadians 
enrolled 1,75 students during 1955 for 1766 sessions, and 
‘an attendance of 29,985. Language classes were also con- 
ducted at Northmount Branch, 


Health and Physical Fitness: 


Organized gymnasium classes attracted an enrollment 
of 2,189 members, with a total attendance o 3090. Additional 
participation in athletic activities by 56,787 was recorded. 
Various league tournaments involved 47,482 people and many inter- 
branch meets were held, 


The Central YMCA Water Polo Team won the Junior 
Provincial Championship in 1954-55, 


The Estonian Girls Sports Club, which meets at 
International YMCA, won the Dominion Volleyball Championship. — 


Learn to Swim Classes were very popular and through 
them 10, 822 persons were given formal instruction in this 
important. skill. An additional 2,915 members passed more 
advanced swimming and lifesaving tests. 


Sir George Williams College and Schools: 


Operating under the direction of 5 major student 
committees, the extra-curricular program encompassed 19 


different interest clubs. The average club membership was 
20e hight clubs were under the joint sponsorship of the Day 


and Evening Divisions 


The student program provides individuals with a 
rare opportunity for self-expression and leadership development. 
Highlights of the year were the American Student Exchange, 
Freshman Week Activities, Winter Carnival and the Annual World 
Service Campaign. 


Twenty-seven teams participated in 17 different sports 
at all levels of competition, The College Athletic Evenings 
attracted over 1000 students, 


S 


III. 


9. 
PROGRAM (cont'd) 
Summer Program: 


An over-all increase in attendance was marked 
at Camp Otoreke, Camp Perrot and Kamp Kanawana. The number 
of campers was 2,199, compared to 1,891 in 1954, and 1,949 in 
1955. There were 108 camp leaders. 


Kamp Kanawana = Kamp Kanawana seeks to provide 
for boys 8 to 16 years of age a natural setting in which rich, 
meaningful spiritual experience becomes an integral aspect of 
the day-to-day program. 


Last season 473 campers attended, for an average 


stay of 3.5 weeks, Attendance in 1954 numbered 446, 


Canoe trips, overland hikes and crafts continued 
as popular features of the program. The boys learned to cooperate 
with others and develop independence as each tent group of 7 
campers planned their own program together. Competition with 
self, rather than comparison with others, was the key note in 
all activities. 


Seventy-two boys learned to swims 323 passed Inter~ 
mediate Swimming tests; 182 boating, canoeing and sailing awards 
were earned and 22 campers passed YMCA Life Saving Tests and 
Master Swimming Awards. 


Camp Perrot - The season opened with a six weeks’ 
session for boys, which attracted 177 boys to the campsite on 
Ile Perrot. It was followed by a two weeks' Camp for 87 girlse 
The average camper stayed just under 3 weeks, 


Boy campers enjoyed a full program, including 
council fires, Olympic games, crafts, canoe-tripping, skits and 
movies. Hot weather and good leadership greatly stimulated the 
swimming program, After two weeks, 25 out of 30 non-swimmers 
had passed their tests. 


The girls camp turned rainy days into a wonderful 
opportunity for creative indoor activities. On hike day, a visit was 
made to the Historical Museum of Ile Perrot. The girls planted 
a maple tree on visitors' day hoping to establish a yearly tradition. 


The new wash house built and donated by the Verdun 
Y's Men's Club was greeted as the greatest single improvement 
to the campsite for many years. 


LES ¢ 


IV. 


10.6 


PROGRAM (cont! a) 


Camp Otoreke = The YMCA summer camp for young 
men, young women and married couples, had a record attendance 
of 117 for the 24th of May weekend, preceeding the regular 


camp opening on June Srd. A total of 1,211 men and women spent 
their vacation period or weekends at the camp. In 1954, 1O77 
attended. 


The weekly program, of which canoeing continues 
to be a favorite, includes a regular outdoor church service and 
is planned and run by a Campers' Committee, with the assistance 
of Camp Staff. 


Christieville Ski Lodge - A season of downhill 
skiing, cross-country trips, ski instruction, indoor tournaments, 
and Saturday night socials was again enjoyed at Christieville. 
The Otoreke Ski Club had the highest number of members in its 11 
wear Vasey ese see ee eet eee Wace 


Christieville has become a home to those who visit 
it regularly. Some guests are from the States, and some are new- 
comers from Europe, as well as many local Montrealers. Thirty 
persons joined in a gathering and turkey dinner on Christmas Daye 


Summer City Day Camps: 


Through City Day Camps, local branches of the YMCA 
provided 1,703 youngsters with a camping experience right in the 
city. The July and August program, including industrial trips, 
picnics, crafts, outdoor games, swimming and family events was 
attended by 28,561 boys and girls, 


BRANCH CHAIRMEN'S COMMITTEE 


This Standing Committee which was established three 
years ago, met three times during the year. The President was 
host at a meeting in the early Fall of the year at which Mr. John 
Be Frosst reported on the Centennial Meeting of the World's Alliance 
held in Paris in August. Other meetings were held in the Lachine 
and Westmount Branches, This committee provides an opportunity for 
Chairmen to exchange information and experiences and to see at first 
hand the facilities of the Branch visited. Its function is purely 
advisory. 


Ve 


ll. 
SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS COLLEGE AND SCHOOLS 


The year 1955 marks the end of an era in the life of 
the College and Schools. During the year classes have been held 
in no fewer than ten separate buildings in this area. We now look 
forward to consolidation of all classes in the new building and in 
the space which we shall continue to occupy in the Central Branch 
building. 


The year has been a most active one. Total registration, 
budget and a number of degrees and other diplomas granted, all offer 
statistical evidence that the year has witnessed the greatest volume 
of work in the history of the College and Schools, 


Four units held formal graduation ceremonies, the 
largest of which was the College's convocation which took place at 
St. James United Church on June 3rd with Dr. H.L. Keenleyside, head 
of the United Nations Technical Assistance Administration, as speaker. 
A total of 335 bachelor's degrees were granted at this convocation. 


Evening classes continue to be the main emphasis in the 
College's program although the registration in the Day Division 
represents a good sized collegiate institution, In fact it would 
stand alone as larger than about half of the universities in Canada, 


The staff has remained relatively stable although several 
changes have taken place as usual, particularly in the part-time 
members of the faculty. Mr. D.W. Cole left us to go to Macdonald 
College. The whole College was shocked by the tragio illness of 
Assoc. Prof. Neil Compton who was stricken with polio in the summer, 
However, all who know him have been greatly encouraged by the 
courageous attitude which he has displayed and the apparently success= 
ful struggle against this disease. 


The extra-curricular program continues with great variety 
particularly in the College where two students' societies, day and 
evening, direct extra-curricular activities. In this connection it 
is pleasing to note that the "Georgian", the student newspaper, under 
the editorship of John Yorston, was awarded the Jacques Bureau Trophy 
as the best College weekly in Canada. The annual world service 
campaign of the Y.M.C.A. was again successful and provided a project 
in which many leading students participated under the chairmanship 
of Jim Manolakos. Our students have been particularly active in the 
affairs of the National Federation of Canadian University Students, 


12. 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS COLLEGE AND SCHOOLS (cont'd) 


It is believed that community and wider relationships 
of the College continue to be satisfactory, We again cooperated 
with the National Council of YMCAs of Canada in the summer school 
at Geneva Park, Ontario, for junior secretaries, The College is a 
member of the National Conference of Canadian Universities, of the 
Association of Universities of the British Commonwealth and of the 
Association of University Evening Colleges (of North America). 


Some idea of the extent of the curricular program may 
be gathered from the following list of degrees and diplomas granted 
in 1955: 

Diplomas in Association Science 

(YMA Sepreterial Courses) oivssinsd ses edadvwastubenmbesy aged 
Bachelors! Degrees = Arts, Science & Commerce secseveeeeeeedd5 
Associate Diplomas - Arts, Science & Commerce sesessecsese 27 
High School Graduation Diplomas Coeercescvccevevceveccecevel oo 
Elementary Sghool Graduation Diplomas sescecceccccececveeee 50 
Business School Graduation Diplomas (Day) seccesecccecccee 63 
Business School Certificates (Evening) secccccccccesceesce 80 
School of Retailing Diplomas ss .ssecesessveccdscussnecsucn LO 


The details of registration for the year are as follows: 
A. Winter Term 1954-55 


Day Evening Total 
1. College (Faculties of Arts, 


Science & Commerce) ceccecesese 740 3106 3846 


26 High School Pee eee eee ere nesters eeeseees = 1466 1466 
oe Blomentary Soho) sawecbesossstetessesen | = 119 119 
O, -BUSIMESS, GONOOL, sels sees tied eealess herebale) CeO 782 1022 
5, Art School ee ee ee ee 5S 154 207 
6. Retail School Peeters eseee ee eesreeeeresee 18 ~ 18 


Total (Winter) I051 B67 6678 


B. Summer Term 1955 
le College (Faculties of Arts, 


Science & Commerce) eeeeeerees > 1321 1821 
ran High DONOO Ls sieasnietele-cleths dielece ee sik ieteiwie prone - 508 508 
3. Business DONGO! weep a eet seas G4 Mole wise ieee e 66 287 353 


Total (Summer) 66 2186 2182 
Total (Winter) 1051 5627 6678 


GRAND TOTAL UT, 7813 8860 


Vi. 


13. 


PERSONAL SERVICES 


Residence accommodation is provided for young men by 
Central, International and Westmount Branches. There were 601 beds 
available in these branches, slightly fewer than in the last two 
years because certain rooms in Central Branch were affected by 
construction of the College Building and were taken out of service. 
A total of 198,378 bed nights were recorded or an average of 92% of 
the available beds. Both bed nights and average occupancy have 
decreased slightly, indicating a trend comparable to that exper- 
ienced in other Associations in Canada and the U.S.A. 


Transient demand is greatest at Central Branch where 
many immigrants, upon arrival in Montreal, make the YMCA their 
headquarters. American tourists and other YMCA touring groups also 
make use of the residences, 


Resident members are encouraged to take advantage of 
the program offered by the branches. Weekly bulletins telling them 
of major events and a friendly welcome point out to them that YMCA 
Residences are meant to be "Homes Away From Home," 


At Central Branch, a varied program has been developed 
during the past year, exclusively for residents, It includes showing 
of films and informal discussion groups in the late evening on a wide 
varicty of topics. © 


Interviews and Employment - Personal counselling con~ 
tinues to be sought after. Young people come to seek guidance on 
@ wide range of problems, such as personal adjustment, educational 
needs, religious perplexity, home difficulties and frequently just 
a desire to talk to an understanding person. 53,982 interviews 
were recorded in 1955, This is slightly lower than in 1954, In 
addition to these voluntary interviews, during the Fall all permanent 
residents in the Central Residence were interviewed. The purpose of 
these interviews was to acquaint the men with the services available 
to them through the Program Department, to bring records up to date 
on each individual and to render any particular service which seemed 
to be needed at the time, 


While the YMCA does not consider itself primarily an 
employment agency, nevertheless, as situations arise, our secretaries 
have, through contacts with various firms, found it possible to refer 


young people for employment interviews, 719 young people were placed 


in employment this year, or 37% more than in 1954, 


VII. 


14. 


OUR CHRISTIAN EMPHASIS 


During this year, made memorable by the Paris Centennial 
Conference of the World's Alliance of YMCAs and the beginning of a 
re-thinking of program objectives at the Christieville conference, 
the members of the YMCA staff have set about their on-going task of 
intergrating Christianity with all of life with a renewed sense of 
dedication and spiritual insight, 


In reporting the Christian emphasis in the Y.M.C.A. of 
Montreal during 1955, the words of Saint Paul are recalled: "We look 
not to the things that are seen but to the things that are unscen." 
(II Cor. 4). It is difficult to describe and account for the intang- 
ibles, the things of the spirit. Any review of the "seen" things, 
the many basketball games, fellowship meetings, craft groups, swim- 
ming classes and service projects, to be complete should include a 
search for the number of meaningful experiences in the lives of boys, 
girls, men and women =--- experiences which mark the beginning or 
development of their lives along a path of Christian living and 
dedication, The "unseen" things are illusive, yet nontheless present 
and real, 


A vast number of people first come into contact with the 
YMCA through mass activities, such as residences and restaurants, or 
through becoming casual members of a popular groupe The influence of 
&@ personal example, expressed in a word of counsel, in welcoming a 
newcomer, in meeting a person in need on his own terms, can be like 
@ fine, gold thread weaving throughout our program and drawing more 
and more people into the fellowship of a Christian society. The 
personal relationships established in small purpose groups and face= 
to-face counselling continued to be the most effective media in which 
Christian emphasis readily developed. The Branch of the Montreal 
YMCA sought to maintain an atmosphere of friendliness, kindness and 
understanding in their buildings and in their program. 


At the summer camps in 1955, the staff and counsellors 
sought to set an example of conduct, mutual respect and Christian 
attitude that would pervade the entire atmosphere of the camp family, 
and to emphasize the attainment of essential characteristics of 
Christian living, rather than mere acquisition of skills, in their 
dealings with the campers, 


15. 


VII. OUR CHRISTIAN EMPHASIS (cont'd) 


In the YMCA, a very important part of the program 
consists of formal worship services and formal religious educations 
The total number of members who participated in these events and in 
World Service work was 6,119, A city-wide staff seminar was held 
in January on the topic "What it means to be a Protestant." Club 
indution services, regular services at the camps and ski lodge, 
daily worship in the Captain's Chapel of Central Branch, special 
worship services for the city-wide staff and Fellowship Secretaries! 
Society and the World Week of Prayer in November were again important 
events in this phase of our program. 


Few organizations have so inclusive a constituency as 
the YMCA. By raising no barriers of race, colour or religious denom- 
ination a great opportunity is presented to help people forget their 
prejudices, eliminate misunderstandings and to treat our fellowmen 
as brothers and God's creatures. Active World Service programs in 
all the local Branches during 1955 reflected the world outlook and 
missionary aspect of the Y.M.C.A. 


VIII. MEMORIALS COMMITTEE 


This committee, chaired by Mr. George Hodge, was appointed 
in 1953 to consider and develop suitable memorials to the early 
Association leaders, At a later date, the committee was also asked 
to accept responsibility for recommending a suitable design and 
location of a memorial to members who gave their lives in the two 
World Wars, and also to arrange for suitable recognition of several 
memorial and other special gifts to the Sir George Williams College 
Building, It has been decided to erect bronze war memorial tablets 
in the foyer of the Central Branch. Arrangements have been made for 
this work to be carried out following the renovation of this part of 
the Drummond Street Building. Brass plates are being erected to 
designate certain sections of the College Building which have been 
made possible by virtue of special and memorial gifts. 


16. 


IXe MEMBERSHIP 


As of December 31, 1955, our_membership rolls showed 
a total of 16,650 fully registered members. in addition, over 1777 
registered non-members participated in various activities in the 
Course of the year. Campers at Kanawana, Perrot, Otoreke and the 
Christieville Ski Lodge numbered 2199, Different members enrolled 
during the year reached a total of 28,253; by far the largest number 
of those enrolled (76.9%) were in the under 30 age category The 
figures given below do not include camp enrollment or registered non- 
member figures. 


A. Membership by Branches: Different Members Total at 
During the Year Deo. 31/55 
Central 6, 399 3,147 
Sir George Williams College 8,941 6,720 
Southwestern 2,470 1,080 
Notre Dame de Grace 2,951 1,132 
International 2,969 1,551 
Westmount 1,005 520 
Lachine 1,244 856 
Montreal East 741 373 
Northeastern 411 411 
Northmount Lytee 1,068 
TOTAL 28,253 16,658 
a LE 
B. By Sex: .. 
Male 106 
Female 306 
Ce By Age: if By Ages -. 
Under 12 12. 25 = 29 14. 
12 - 14 5.9 30 - 34 7.6 
15 = 17 12. 35 and up 10. 
18 = 24 336 Unknown 305 


In all, 32,427 different boys, girls, men and women 


were active in the program during the year. 


Xe 


17. 


CITY-WIDE “OOPERATION 


YMCA facilities were used by 1,207 outside organizations 
and groups a total of ¢, 7/26 times in the course of the past year. 

Outside groups related to the YMCA in this way included 
boys from the MacKay Institute and the School for the Blind, who are 
provided with a special program at Westmount Branch, and members of the 
Dutch Reformed Church, who meet twice each Sunday for worship in Inter- 
national Branch, Lutheran Church services were conducted by a group in 
Lachine YMCA, and neighbourhood nursery schools used the YMCA premises 
in a number of communities. Some of the Branches helped new organiz- 
ations and groups to become established, offering them the use of rooms, 
equipment and the benefit of leadership experience, given in an advisory 
capacity during the formative stages. 


Because of its Christian objectives, the YMCA has always 
maintained a close, cooperative relationship with the churches of the 
city. Church groups of many denominations made wide use of the YMCA 
facilities. This fundamental cooperation was also expressed during 1955 
by the Association's active participation on the Montreal Council of 
Churches and the attendance of members of the Clergy at meetings and 
special functions of the YMCA. 


Affiliation with the Council of Christian Education for 
the Province of gyebec and participation on the Montreal Council of 
Social Agencies continued during the past year. 


Through the courtesy of the Montreal Protestant School 
Board, the facilities of the schools have continued to supplement the 
building resources of the YMCA. The Hi-Y, Gra-Y and many other groups 
are schoolecentred. Cooperation from the schools helped make the YMCA 
"Learn-to-Swim" campaigns successful. 


Program which involved parents in the activities of the 
"Y" during the year, such as Parent Nights, Family Swims, Father-Son 
and Mother-Daughter events, Parent-Youth Panel Discussions, eto., pro- 
moted an understanding of the YMCA's function in many homes, The regular 
meetings of a great number of groups and clubs in homes further encour- 
aged the integration of the YMCA into the lives of families in the local 
communities. 


XIe 


18. 


FINANCE AND PROPERTY 


For the first time since 1952, the official dates for the 
Annual Financial Campaign (November 14-28) did not conflict with a 
Capital Fund Appeal of a hospital and the Association was therefore 
allowed complete freedom in its publicity program. The effect on the 
conduct of the Campaign found expression in a more effective organization 
and better morale. The objective was $210,000,a sum slightly greater 
than the final returns for 1954, At the final report meeting, the 
objective was reported in sight with the complete returns later showing 
$210,200 from 10,531 contributors, Mr. T. Denton Lewis for the cccond 
year gave superlative leadership as General Chairman, a performance matched 
by Mr. C.B. Neapole as Chairman of Special Names. 


12 new names were added to the list of sponsors bringing 
the total up to 222, In addition, 15 laymen rendered excellent service 
as Chairmen of Divisions. The total working force of over 1710 persons 
was well supported by a publicity program under the direction of Mr, Hot. 
Colemar, Dr. A.W. Trueman, Chairman of the National Film Board, addressed 
the opening meeting and in an inspiring message, focussed attention on 
the role of the voluntary organization in contemporary life and the 
challenge which this relationship presents to thoughtful responsible 
citizens. The attendance at the report meetings was particularly good 
with morale and enthusiasm being maintained at a high level. 


Capital Funds - A further amount of approximately $43,390 
was received toward the Sir George Williams College Building Fund from 
@ special canvass amongst Jewish friends by a committee under the chair- 
manship of Mr. Melvin Chorney. Normally, the addition of this sum to the 
Capital Funds would have left a financing problem of approximately $400, 00C 
which was anticipated in earlier plans. The action of the City adminis- 
tration, however, in cancelling commitments to charitable projests has 
increased the financing problem by $300,000. This matter is currently 
before the officers of the Association and arrangements have been made 
for temporary financing. Fortunately it has been possible to meet all 
contract payments to date without resort to borrowing and in addition 
all temporary surplus cash has been employed in suitable investments. 


XI. 


19. 


FINANCE AND PROPERTY (cont'd) 


Major repairs and replacements were carried out as indic- 
ated below. 

International Branch - complete renovation of locker rooms 
and installation of an accoustical ceiling in the swimming pool. 

Westmount Branch - major renovations of lobby, Boys! 
Division, Social Rooms and related furnishings, and renovations of 
residence furnishings, A special craft room was established and equipped. 

Kamp Kanawana = replacement of camp truck with a beach 
wagon and erection of a food storage room adjacent to the administration 
buildings. Lodge underpinning renewed. 

Camp Otoreke - two new washrooms erected and new games 
room completed. Wharf rebuilt. 

Camp Perrot - erection of wash house by Verdun Y's Men's 
Clube 


Building Projects - Under the chairmanship of Mr. I.R. Tait, 
the Metropolitan Building Committee continued to give detailed super- 
vision to building projects evolving from the Capital Funds Campaign of 
1962, 

Lachine Branch - the building was completed and occupied 
in March at a total cost including furnishings of $145,000, 

Notre Dame de Grace Extension - this building was completed 
and occupied in September at a total cost including furnishings to date 
of $145,000, Some additions to the furnishings have yet to be secured 
and final settlement with the contractor is pending, 

Central Branch Building Alterations = the renovations in 
the Central Branch had to be planned in three phases in order to operate 
the building with a minimum of interference in the regular program: Phase 
I involving the Boys' and Girls' Locker Room, the Wrestling and Judo Room 
and the Weight Lifting Room was completed and occupied in July. Phase ITI 
followed immediately and included the Senior Locker and Tote Basket Room, 
the Business Men's Locker and Tote Basket Room, the Solarium and service 
area, Work was nearing completion at the year end in readiness for occ= 
upation early in the New Year, 

Both these projects were much more complicated than new 
construction because of the unforeseeable problems related to wiring ana 
plumbing in an old building. The first contract was let on tender but 
the latter, because of its nature was awarded on a cost plus a fixed fee 
basis. The General Contractor in each case was Messrs. E.G.M.Cape and 
Company who were able to coordinate the effort with the work on the Sir 
George Williams College Building. 


XT. 


XII. 


20, 


FINANCE AND PROPERTY (cont'd) 


Phase III to include the College area on the third floor, 
certain changes on the second floor, new handball courts replacing the 
small gymnasium, and the whole lobby and administrative area will be 
commenced in early Spring with a target completion date of September 
next. 


Legacies and Bequests = A further sum of $75,000 was 
received from the Estate of tc Late Frank L. Benedict, The final 
payment will be forthcoming when complete settlement is received from 
the sale of a large tract of land. 


The Association also received from the Royal Trust Company 
an amount of $6,228.07 representing distribution of the capital of the 
William Warren Fund. Modest amounts have been received from the earnings 
of this fund from time to time for ordinary operating purposes. 


PERSONNEL 


Boards and Committees: 


The direction of the affairs of the Association Movement 
in Montreal is in the hands of the Metropolitan Board of Directors, Branch 
Boards of Management and departmental and sectional committees, 2343 
members of the Association were active during the year on these various 
bodies. They met regularly to formulate policy and to review progress 
of the on-going work of the YMCA. 


Group and Club Officers: 


A major aspect of the program was the many clubs and groups 
which engaged in a diversified program during the year under review. The 
responsibility for directing the affairs of these units was carried by 
638 members who were elected by their fellows to various offices in these 
gZYOupSe 


XIITe 


21le 
PERSONNEL (cont! d) 
Volunteer Leaders: 


Volunteer leaders are an important and vital part of the 
work of the YMCA. Our program was greatly strengthened by the unselfish 
service of 1293 men and women who gave freely and willingly of their time 
and skill acting as advisors, counsellors and leaders of clubs and groups 
The members of the Association will ever be grateful for the advice and 
help and leadership of these friends, It is to be hoped that they too 
have gained much through participation in our leadership training program 
and through this voluntary service. 


Staff: 


To augment the important work of volunteers, the Associatio 
requires many employed personnel. To maintain the buildings and equip- 
ment, to handle the details in offices, to prepare and serve food, to 
make beds and run elevators, to teach in the College and Schools, to 
work with committees and volunteers in the activities program and to 
administer the affairs of the Association, required the employment of 
240 people on a full-time and 525 on a part-time basis. 29 of the latter 
were Secretaries-in-Training who attended Sir George Williams College 
while doing field work in one of the branches. The work of these people, 
many of whom served beyond the strict requirements of their job, is 
gratefully acknowledged. During the year, the following changes occurred 
in the employed officers ranks: 

Kenneth MacKeracher, Assistant Boys! Work Secretary in 
Central Branch, accepted a position with the St. Catharines YMCA, He 
was succeeded by Niles Ring. 

Mary Anne Lohnes and Mrs. Barbara Davis, Women & Girls’ 
Work Secretaries at the Southwestern Branch, resigned in the Fall of 
the year and were succeeded by Misses Verna Harries and Sheila Neill. 

Charles A, Keir, Physical Director at Central Branch, 
resigned to undertake graduate studies and was succeeded by Allan Menzies 
who occupied the same position in Kitchener-Waterloo YMCA, 

Joseph T, Barratt, Central Branch Residence Secretary, 
accepted the position of Executive Director of the Old Brewery Mission. 
D.C. MacLeod moved from the Northeastern Branch to succeed Mr. Barratt. 

In the Notre Dame de Grace Branch, Ralph Erskine, Physical 
Director, and William Whitelock, Adult Program Secretary, both resigned. 
They were succeeded by Fraser Wade who came from the Peterborough Assoc- 
iation, and Victor Hryhorchuk of the Ottawa YMCA. 


XITe 


XIII. 


226 


PERSONNEL (cont'd) 


John Jackson came from St. Catharines to become Boys! 
Work Secretary of the International Branch, replacing John Vandenberg 
who resigned to enter teaching. 

Harry Clinch, a former Montreal "Y" Secretary, re-entered 
the work and accepted the position of Executive Secretary of Northe 
eastern Branch. 

Roy D. Locke resigned as Executive Secretary of Westmount 
Branch in order to enter business, N.A. Millington returned to his 
former position as Executive Secretary of this Branch after a year as 
Public Relations Secretary in the Metropolitan Office. 

Mrs. Margaret Virany was appointed Publicity Secretary. 


NATIONAL COUNCIL 


The National Council of YMCAs with headquarters at 15 
Spadina Road, Toronto, continued its helpful relationship to our Agsoc- 
iation during 1955. Members of their staff, including Mr. H. Arnold Ward, 
National Council Program Secretary, and Mr. Les Vipond, National Council 
Personnel Secretary, made unhurried, meaningful visits to our branches, 
In addition, Mr. Vipond is continually being called upon on occasions 
when personnel vacancies occur. He is always ready and willing to render 
any assistance within his power. Mr. J.M. Pritchard of Montreal was the 
elected president of the Council. 

An Executive Workshop conducted bv the National Council in 
Toronto from February 23-25 was attended by 4 senior members of the 
Montreal staff, 

Nineteen members of the Montreal /ssociation, representing 
almost every branch, participated in the National Council Annual Meeting 
in Toronto last May. 

The bi-annual Canadian YMCA Secretarial Summer School was 
held at Geneva Park, Lake Couchiching, Ontario, during August. Several 
members of the Montreal staff were in attendance. 

The Montreal Association, as a constituent member of the 
National Council of YMCAs of Canada, contributed $15,500 in support of 
the Council's services during the year. 

The following members of the Montreal Association are member! 
of the National Council of YMCAs: 


J.od.F. Bancroft T.D.Lewis G.M.Hobart W.R. Pritchard 
H.C Beatty C.A. Smith George Hodge D.R.Ross 
D.G.Currie F.V.Stone F.G.Hubbard W.G.Scott 

H. Edge Dr.J.S.thomson H.dJ.Humphrey Dr.C.D.Shortt 
JoM.Ferguson L.W. Townsend C.M.McCully T.C.Twyman 
C.E.Jenkins F.Firmin J.D.McKeown R.C.Vaughan 
R.C Johnston J.B.Frosst R.O.McMurtry C.W.Webster 
H.Keith H.F.Hall J.M.Pritchard F.B.Walls 


Dr.D.J.Wilson Mrs.F.B.Wilson 


23, 


XIV.» WORLD SERVICES 


World Services is the extension work of the YMCAs of 
Canada and the United States, which, since 1889 has grown from an 
experiment with two men, to one of the outstanding international 
aid programs of the world, Continuously since that time, Canadian 
and Americans have been sent to help in the formation and the 
improvement of YMCAs in foreign lands; the record now shows that 
in 67 years of operation, World Services funds have established 
national YMCA movements in 38 countries of the 78 countries in which 
the "Y" may be found, At present, 55 men are serving as Fraternal 
Secretaries in this work, and the YMCA is recognized as a world 
fellowship which transcends race, colour, creed, economic and social 
status. 


The success of all overseas expansion work of the YMCA 
has been directly related to the basic emphasis in developing 
leaders. Christian leaders of a voluntary Christian movement 
provide the only means whereby the "Y" can adequately reach the 
masses who should be taught. World Services funds are used for 
this purpose and each local Association becomes indigenous, and 
is encouraged to be self-propagating, self-governing and self- 
supporting. The fraternal secretaries from North America then 
are available to assist in other areas. 


That the policy works well is unquestionable, and 
growth is limited only by the available budget. Requests for aid 
in new areas always form a waiting list. Since the close of the 
war, new "Y" movements have been started in: 


Bolivia Indonesia Liberia 

Burma Jordan Pakistan 

Ethiopia Lebanon Paraguay 
Venezuela 


During the year, we were privileged to have John H, 
Dunderdale, Director of the YMCA Training School at Bangalore, India, 
as a visiting speaker to lead off our campaign for funds. Mr. 
Dunderdale is a Canadian, who prior to his 20 years in India, was 
a Boys! Work Secretary in Ontario, 


24.6 


WORLD SERVICES (conttd) 


Combined North American contributions for World 
Service in 1955 totalled $1,397,028; the Canadian total was 
$127,963.00; our local results were as follows: 


1955 1955 

Budget Secured 

Metropolitan Board $16,820, $16,936. 
Central Branch 2,000. Lie. 
Sir George Williams College 1,865. 2,187. 
Westmount Branch 1,150. LLeW. 
International Branch 1,650. 1,650. 
N.D.G. Branch 1, 700. Le6l Tt. 
Southwestern Branch 750. eit 
Lachine Branch 500, 300, 
Montreal East Branch 125. 83. 
Northeastern Branch 100, 43. 
Northmount Branch 2506 466, 
Camp Otoreke 1,000, 1,040. 
Kamp Kanawana 165. 165. 
Camp Perrot 125. 143, 
TOTAL: $28,000. $28,266. 


THE WORLD'S ALLIANCE 


The world-wide YMCA movement is almost a united nations 
in itself, The central organization known as the World's Alliance 
of YMCAs seeks to strengthen and coordinate Association work every- 
where, and also to speak as the representative body of over four 
million YMCA members. More than 9000 Associations around the globe 
have their focus in Geneva, Switzerland, where the headquarters are 
located. Five per cent of our World Service Fund contributions are 
devoted to the World's Alliance to support its operations. 


256 


THE WORLD'S ALLIANCE (cont'd) 


This similarity to the United Nations was heightened in 
1955 by the Paris Centennial Conference, held to commemorate the 
founding of the World's Alliance in August, 1855, when 99 young men 
from European and North American Associations met in Paris to create 
and give direction to an international organization of YMCAs. The 
conference one hundred years later, also in Paris, drew together over 
7000 delegates from 74 nations, who demonstrated how well the organiz- 
ation founded by the 99 young men has flourished. In six separate 
divisions of the Conference, people of varied colours, creeds and 
nations met to examine present day practices and policies of the YMCA 
and to determine the direction in which this important international 
organization should proceed in its second hundred years. 


Several important results were apparent within weeks of 
the meetings. The original "Paris Basis" statement of purposes of 
the Association from August 1855, was reaffirmed and proclaimed; 
emphasis was placed upon the need to keep evident the youthful char- 
acteristic of its founders in today's boards and committees - 
followed logically by the election of a youthful President, Charles 
Sherman, aged 37, accompanied by a youthful slate of officers, to 
follow in the tradition of the late John R. Mott. 


The varied groups of delegates acquired a greater com- 
prehension of the meaning of world brotherhood and of its potentials 
the thousands of laymen and secretaries returned to their homes 
around the world with new visions and inspirations whose effects on 
the Association of the future can only be estimated. 


XVI. 


266 


OBI TUARY 


We record with sorrow the passing of a number of 
friends of the Association - 


Lt. Col. I.P. Rexford, a member of the Metropolitan 
Advisory Board. 


Dr. E.C. Woodley, Board member for 50 years and 
former Chairman of the City Hall Avenue Branch. Albert M. Bond, 
former Chairman of the Montreal East Branch Board of Management. 
L.R. Newman, member of the Westmount Branch Board of Management. 
W.R. Stenhouse, member of the Southwestern Branch Board of 
Management. W.A. Wilson, member of the International Branch 
Board of Management, 


Other friends and supporters: G.M. Bunting, Dr. C.W. 
Colby, F.H. Hopkins, I.W. Killam, C.C. Lawes, H.A. MacNutt, A.L. 
Patterson, George Stephen, William Taylor, G.H. Townsend. 


James G. Taylor, a member of the house staff for 
almost thirty years. 


W.H. White, a member of the staff of the Y.M.C.A. of 
Montreal for 32 years, first as Membership Secretary and latterly 
as Executive Secretary of Central Branch until his retirement in 
1949, Mr. White continued in active service as the superintendent 
of the Old Brewery Mission and passed away suddenly in June. With 
an unusual capacity for friendship, "Bill" White made a lasting 
impression on thousands of young men with whom he came into contact. 


W.H. Ball, the first Physical Director of the YMCA of 
Montreal, passed away during 1955. He is endeared and remembered by 
members of our Association through his work in establishing the first 
Canadian camps for boys, and his part in founding the Dominion Square 
YMCA Building. 


The YMCA was saddened by the loss of Dr. John R. Mott 
in January 1955. A devoted Christian and a great man, he was Honor- 
ary Life President of the World's Alliance of YMCAs and Honorary 
President of the World Council of Churches. 


ulin 


XVII. APPRECIATION 


Any expression of appreciation at its best will be 
inadequate to deal commensurately with the thousands of indiv- 
iduals and organizations which were related in some way to the 
work of the YMCA for the year under review. 


With this in mind, we wish to place on record apprec- 
iative acknowledgement for the helpful relationship of the 
following: 


We are deeply grateful to all Board and Committee 
members for their frequent counsel, guidance and service; 


To the hundreds of volunteer leaders who have served 
as friendly counsellors of clubs and boys and girls in camps; 


To the many friends of the Association who have contrib- 
uted generously of their financial resources; 


To the press, television and radio stations; 


To the Protestant School Board for their generosity in 
making available school facilities for our programs 


To service clubs for their interest and support; 

To the Montreal Council of Social Agencies; 

To individual churches, the Greater Montreal Council 
of Churches, and the Christian Education Council with whom we 


share so much in common; 


To the many business corporations for their generous 
supports; 


To our sister organization, the Young Women's Christian 
Association, and to the Young Men's-Young Women's Hebrew Associatior 
and to the Quebec Federation of Youth Organizations; 


To the staff of secretaries and all others who have 
served the Association, we extend our gratitude.e 


28. 


XVIII. CONCLUSION 


The Montreal Young Men's Christian Association can 
be proud of its 104 years of service with the youth of this 
great city. Not the least of these is the year reported on 
herein. None of the opportunities we have faced in the past 
are more challenging than those of today and the days ahead. 
The coming of age of Canada at a time of unprecedented uncer- 
tainty in world affairs and the place of greater influence 
which she now occupies; the challenge to our way of life by 
forces ambitious and ruthless, makes the demand on our 
Canadian young people, who must soon take over the direction 
of our affairs, very great. 


The Y.M.C.A. has a unique and special opportunity 
and responsibility in these times. Let us hope that we have 
the imagination, the courage and the faith to discharge our 
duty, 


We must marshal all our resources for the task: 

» These tools, our buildings and equipment - clean,. 
well-ordered and modern; 

- Our "know-how" = 104 years of experience; 

« Consecrated leadership, lay and secretarial; 

e The goodwill and resources of those citizens who 
though outside our immediate circle, are 
concerned about youths 

« Our purpose which is fundamental to life itself, 


Who knows but that God in His mysterious way has raised 
up this Association and us with it to do His work and His will in 
such a time as this, If such be so, then indeed the past is but a 
prelude to the future, 


Respectfully submitted, 


Fred G. Hubbard, 
General Secretary 


STATISTICAL RECORD FOR 1955 


VOLUNTEER SERVICE 
Group Leaders 
On Boards, Committees and Councils 


HEALTH & PHYSICAL FITNESS 
Gymnasium Activities 
Swimming Classes 
Swimming Tests 
Taught to Swim 
Teams, Leagues, Rinks & Playfields 
Athletic Events 


CLUBS AND GROUPS = (1011) 


Purpose & fellowship Clubs, Interest 
Groups & Classes 


INFORMAL .EDUCATION 
Crafts and Hobbies 
Lectures, Forums and Study Groups 
Motion Pictures & TV -indoors & outdoors 
Libraries, Book Circulation 


SOCIAL RECREATION 
Dances, Parties and Social Affairs 
Dramatics and Musical Events 
Trips, Outings, Etc. 


RELIGIOUS EDUCATION 
Meetings, Study Groups, Chapel 


ENROLLMENT 


1,293 
2,343 


2,189 
5, 595 
2,915 


3,301 


25,041 


1,986 


SUMMER CAMPS: Campers Camper Days 

Boys: 650 15, 582 

Men: 681 11,928(& women) 

Girls: 87 Led 

Women: 673 ~(see above) 

Leaders: 108 4, 704 2,199 
CITY DAY CAMPS = (15) 1, 703 
PERSONAL SERVICES 

Counselling and Interviews 

Employment Placements 719 


Residences, Bed Nights 


FORMAL EDUCATION 
Sir George Williams College & Schools = 


No. of Students, 8941; No. of Classes 787; 


No, of Student Hours 


COMMUNITY SERVICE 
“Noe of Outside Organizations using 
"Y" Facilities 
No. of Times 


GROSS ATTENDANCE 
Clubs, Groups, Program Events & 
Personal Services: 


1,207 
2,726 


ATTENDANCE 


11,529 


20,690 
98,537 
10,622 


47,482 
56, 787 


273, 706 


43,630 
11,064 
77,088 
92,122 


76,138 
1,970 
7,291 


6,129 


33,425 


28, 561 


53, 982 


198,378 


2,105,986 


97,510 


3,352,817 


P.S. ROSS & SONS 


April 9, 1956. 


Ay UsDain ce LOu Rae Ro ahee (OR tr 


The Young Men's Christian Association of Montreal, 
Montreal, Que. 


We have examined the Balance Sheet of the Young Men's Christian 
Association of Montreal as at December 31, 1955 and the related Statement 
of Income and Expenditure for the year ended that date. In connection 
therewith we made a test examination of the books of account and financial 
records of the Metropolitan Office and of the reports from the branches and 
from the Residence Building but we did not make a detailed audit of the 
transactions of the Association for the year, We have received all the 
information and explanations we have required, 


In our opinion, based on the examination made, the attached 
Balance Sheet and related Statement of Income and Expenditure correctly 
set forth the financial position of the Association as at December 31, 1955 
and the results of its operations for the year ended on that date, according 
to the best of our information and the explanations given to us and as 
shown by the accounting records examined by us, 


P. S. ROSS & SONS, 


Chartered Accountants. 


Dg Op 


OFFICERS OF THE ASSOCIATION 


JW. McConnell 
F.B. Walls 

L.W. Townsend 
George M. Hobart 
0.B. Thornton 

T. Denton Lewis 
James H. Webb 


~- Honorary President 


President 

lst, Vice-President 
2nd. Vice-President 
érd. Vice-President 
Honorary Treasurer 

Honorary Secretary 


METROPOLITAN BOARD OF DIRECTORS 


D.S. Abbott 

E.R. Alexander 
R.D. Armstrong 
T.H. Atkinson 
J.Jd.F. Bancroft 
A. Turner Bone 
Joseph M, Breen 
Leslie H.1T.Clegg 


J.R. Crawford 

Hon. G.B. Foster, Q.C. 
John B. Frosst 

JA. Fuller 

George Hodge 

W.S. Kirkpatrick 
Herbert H. Lank 

Eric A. 


Leslie 


W. Norman Clelland X Harold M. Long 


C. Leslie Copland 
A.H. Cowie 
H. Roy Crabtree 


W.F. Macklaier, Q.C. 
H.M. Mawhinney 
John Ge McConnell 


James D. McKeown 


ADVISORY BOARD 


T.R. McLagan 

S.C. Norsworthy 
J.M. Pritchard 
B.W. Roberts 
Howard I, Ross 
A.E. Sargent 

H. Greville Smith 
Irving R. Tait 

W. Taylor=Bailey 
M.M. Walter 
Colin W. Webster 
Frank A, Whittall 


L.J. Belnap G.Blair Gordon A.W. McMaster R.E.Stavert 
Henry Ge Birks H.J.Hannaford R.O. McMurtry R.O.Stevenson 
George W. Bourke R.D.Harkness A.Wesley Mason Guy Tombs 
Arthur H,. Campbell R.A.C. Henry A.L. Paterson W.K. Trower 
Murray R. Chipman G.R.Hodgson Major-General R.C.Vaughan 

J.P. Copland R.C.Holden,Q.C. F.R.Phelan, Major-General A.E. 
Harold Crabtree W.H.Howard, Q.C. GC). Bey ID .S.0e4 Walford, C.B., 
S.L. deCarteret H. Jasper Humphrey M.C., V.D. C.B.E., M.M., 
S.G. Dobson A.C. Jensen R.B. Powell E.D. 

Victor M. Drury Frederick Johnson R, Pierce Reid G.A.Walker, 0.C. 
Hon. C.A.Dunning J.W.McConnell X Lt.Col.I.P. D.A.Whittaker 
George V. Ferguson Air Vice-Marshal Rexford E.C.Wood 

B.C. Gardner C.M.McEwen, C.B., W.W. Southam Walter P,Zeller 


X = Deceased. 


Central - W.R. Pritchard 
International - Erle Ulley 
Lachine - Dr. C.D.Shortt 
Montreal East - L.N.Sills 
Northeastern - T. Dranfield 
Boys! & Girls! Camping 
Committee - Scott Kneeland 


M.C.,D.F.C«& Bar 


BRANCH CHAIRMEN 


Northmount - A.G. Forman 
Notre Dame de Grace = F.V. Stone 
Southwestern - Howard Keith 
Westmount - H.C. Nourse 
Sir George Williams College = 

B.W. Roberts 
Camp Otoreke Committee ~ David Shanks 


RS POSS 
OF 
THE NOMINATING COMMITTEE 
TO THE ANNUAL MEETING OF THE 
YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 
MONDAY, APRIL 16TH, 1956 


Mr. President; 


Your committee, having carried out the constitutional 
requirements in connection with its duties, hereby nominates the following 
active members to become Directors of the Association: 


T.H. Atkinson J.D. McKeown 
C.L. Copland B.W. Roberts 
R.A. Emerson Howard I. Ross 
J.A. Fuller 0.B. Thornton 
R.E. Heartz L.W. Townsend 
H.H. Lank F.B. Walls 
J.R. Logan C.W. Webster 


F.A. Whittall 


Your committee also wishes to report that at the last 
meeting of the Metropolitan Board of Directors, the following were elected 
members of the Advisory Board: 


G.W. Bourke E.A. Leslie F.R. Phelan 
M.R. Chipman J.G. McConnell R.O. Stevenson 
S.G. Dobson C.M. McEwen Guy Tombs 
G.V. Ferguson A.W. McMaster A.E. Walford 
R.A.C. Henry R.O. McMurtry E.C. Wood 

A.W. Mason 


Respectfully submitted, 


J.d.F. Bancroft, Chairman 
W.S. Kirkpatrick 

T.D. Lewis 

Kenneth McAdam 

J.R. Logan 

E.L. Hamilton 


le 
26 
36 


4. 


le 
Be 
36 
Ae 


5e 


AGENDA 
SPECIAL MEETING 
OF THE METROPOLITAN BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
OF THE Y.M.C.A. OF MONTREAL 
HELD IN THE BUDGE HALL, CENTRAL BRANCH 
MONDAY, APRIL 16TH, 1956, AT 6:00 P.M. 


MEETING CALLED TO ORDER 
REPORT OF THE NOMINATING COMMITTEE ON OFFICERS 
MOTION TO ADOPT THE REPORT 


AD JOURNMENT 


AGENDA 
OF MEETING OF 
THE CORPORATION OF SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS COLLEGE 
HELD IN THE BUDGE HALL, CENTRAL BRANCH 
OF THE Y.M.C.A. OF MONTREAL 
MONDAY, APRIL 16TH, 1956, AT 6;15 P.M. 


MEETING CAILED TO ORDER 

ADOPTION OF MINUTES OF MARCH 19TH, 1956 
REPORT OF THE NOMINATING COMMITTEE ON OFFICERS 
MOTION TO ADOPT THE REPORT 


ADJOURNMENT 


