MONTREAL 


YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION 


A a a 


THIRTIETH 


ANNUAL REPORT 


TUESDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 29TH, 1881. 


—Montceat : 


D. Bentley & Co,, Book & Job Printers, 364 Notre Dame Street, 


1882. 


List of Wfficers and Committee for 1882, 


coe 


President, 


GEORGE HAGUE. 


oy); 


SAC? = 


T. JAMES CLAXTON. 
J. MURRAY SMITH. 


Presidente. 
DO . ROSS. 
GEORGE BISHOP. 


el 
Oteasuzez, 


J. 


S. McLACHLAN. 


Secretary. 


D. 


A. 


BUDGE. 


Ussistean t-Secretarsy. 


eS 


JODERY. 


Py +. 
Comiunittee. 


JOHN MURPHY. 
D. BENTLEY. 

R. HENDERSON. 
WALTER PAUL. 

R. H. HOLLAND. 
A. KINGMAN. 
WARDEN KING. 
H. L. PUTMAN. 
CHAS. MORTON, 
Dr. O. C. EDWARDS 
Dr. F. W. KELLEY. 
J. J. MACLAREN. 
W. G. BROWN. 

S. F. MASSETT. 

A. P. WILLIS. 

H. J. MUDGE. 


Board 


T. JAMES CLAXTON. 
T. H. HODGSON. 


CHARLES ALEXANDER. 


HENRY LYMAN, 
Dr. BAZIN. 

J. TORRANCE. 
GEO. YOUNG. 


We. 


1D. MORRICE, 

A. A. AYER. 

C. CUSHING. 
GEO. LAMB. 

L. H. PACKARD. 
F. W. FAIRMAN. 
R. H. BUCHANAN. 
R. THOMAS. 
ROBERT SMITH. 
J. B. PICKEN. 

W. TEES. 

J. DUMARESQ. 

H. W. BUCHANAN. 
ROBT. LOGIE. 

J. T. DONALD. 

. E. JODERY. 


= 


of Mirectarza, 


. MORRICE., 
. PATON. 
N.S. WHITNEY. 
THOS. CRAIG. 
R. IRWIN. 
H,. A; NELSON, 
E. K. GREENE, 
REID, 


STANDING COMMITTEES, 1881-82. 


>_> e——______—__— 


Fimancee, 


L. H. Packarp, . |. ~- Chairman. 
J. S. McLachlan. R. Thomas. Geo. Bishop. J. J. MacLaren. 
-T. Jas. Claxton. D. Bentley. A. A, Ayer. H. J. Mudge. 
Warden King. W. G. Brown. D. Morrice. J. B. Picken. 
W. Paul. Robt. Logie. Wm. Henderson. 


Lectures, Classes and Meetings. 


T. Jamgs CLaAxTon, . . ©. . Chairman. 


George Hague. John Murphy. L. H. Packard. - Warden King. 

Dr. F. W. Kelley. George Bishop. T. H. Hodgson. H. L. Putnam. 

J. Murray Smith, R. H. Holland. D. Morrice. Henry Morton, 

D. W. Ross. Dr. 0. CG: Edwards. A. Kingman. J. C. Holden. 

H. W. Buchanan, W. Tees. J. T. Donald. W. K. Graffty. 

H. J. Mudge. Rev. E, J. Rexford. H. O. Wilson. F. E. Jodery. 
P. S. Ross, J. J. Maclaren. J. L. Carson, 

Mission, 

R. HENDERSON, «a Chatrman. 

H. L. Putnam. R. H. Buchanan. P. Sinclair. W. Sloan. 

A. Kingman. A. P. Willis. H. W. Buchanan. J. H. Carnegie. 

S. F. Massett. George Lamb. A. D. Lanskail. John Louson. 

J. Dumaresgq. Robert Smith. Alex. W. Craig. F. E. Jodery, 


SMooms and Library. 
Dr. F.,W..KeLLeY, . . +» Chatrman. 


Dr. O. C. Edwards. | C. Cushing. F, W. Fairman. Allan C. Cummings. 
J. Murray Smith. J. J. Maclaren. R,. W. McLachlan. Dr. Bazin. 
Wm. Dick, Geo. Creak. F. E. Jodery. 
Membership, 
W. Paut, . . - Chairman. 
W. Tees. Q, E. Packard. © R, E. Ramsay. W. Drysdale.’ 
C. Cushing. ~ A. D. Lanskail. W. R. Hubbard. J.B Fudger. 
T. B. Macaulay. C. E. Ray. T. M. Henderson. J. S. Horton. | 


Mee eplion, . 


jJ. DuMAREsQ, . . . Chairman. 


J. .B Picken. A. P. Willis. W, F. Whelan. _ Wm. Law. 
Wm. Henderson. R. C. Brewer. G. W. Jones. W. Outhwaite. 
Alf. Griffith. J. E. Bizzey. Jos. Locke. F. Brundage. 


D. F. McQuaig. A. B. Gwilt. 


5 


Jawitation, 


' S. F. Maseatt, . . « Chatroman, 
A. D. Lanskail. Jos. Locke. W. Y. Seaman. Jno. MeMurtrie. 


Jno, Ohling. Geo. Williams. Chas. Caron. Henry Engelkie. 
Jas. Rea. J. Warwick, Jas. Goodfellow. Jno. Wilson. 
Jas. Copping. Chas. Fallon. Alex. McFarlane. 
Misitation. 


GrorGeE LAMB, . . . Chatrman. 


Jno. Louson, S. F. Massett. C. E. Ray. James Inglis. 


Commercial Gravelfers. 


R. H. Hottann, . . . Chairman. 


Chas. Morton. H. J. Mudge. R. Henderson. F. B. Smith. 
Robt. Logie. Arthur Rogers. ¥. W. Fairman. 
Sirplowmnent. 


F. E. Jopery, . . . Chairman. 


W. Tees. Warden King. Richard Holland. T. M. Bryson. 
Robert Smith. 


ANNUAL REPORT. 


<0 0 


This Association has been permitted, under the providence 
of God, to carry on Christian work amongst the young men of 
this City for the past thirty years. 


Krom the Reports now presented it will be seen that not only 
have the various branches of religious work been continued, and 
in some instances increased, but there has been added a new 
department—in establishing Educational Lectures and Classes. 
The results already attained show that this is meeting a great 
need, and will doubtless become a most important agency for 
increasing the usefulness of the Association, by directly benefitting 
and influencing for good a large class of our young men. 


Since entering upon our building, eight years ago, a steady 
growth in many branches of the work has been experienced, and 
and if we are to meet the present pressing demands additional 
accommodation becomes an absolute necessity. ‘To illustrate this 
it is only necessary to say that on three evenings of each week 
our reading room has to be closed to the public and used for 
classes or meetings, and on one evening two meetings immediately 
following each other are held in the same room. Besides the loss 
sustained in closing our public reading room, the present arrange- 
ment represents much inconvenience, and is no small hindrance 
to the well-being of the work. We hope this will soon be remedied 
by having a set of well furnished class-rooms in connection with 
the Association. 


It is somewhat difficult to give the membership and the 
public any definite and correct idea of the work which devolves 
upon the Secretary, on account of its general character. As an 
active member on every Committee, a large amount of time 1s 
necessarily occupied in advising with them, and aiding in carrying 
out their work. In addition to this, the other duties may be briefly 


see 


8 


summarized as follows :—-correspondence ; personal interviews for 
counsel and direction; general visitation ; welcoming strangers ; 
locating young men in boarding houses; and aiding young men 
in securing employment. These branches of work are carried on 
daily throughout the year by the Secretary and Assistant. 


CORRESPONDENCE. —Thisimportant department is continually 
increasing and requires the most careful attention. The average 
number of letters written monthly in connection with the business 
and work of the Association is at present 185. Much of this 
work is connected with the arrival of young men. from the old 
country, who are coming in such large numbers and in almost 
every variety of trade. To those going further West letters of 
introduction have been granted to Associations where they hoped 
to locate. ‘The Secretary has also endeavored, as far as possible, 
by means of occasional letters, to continue the influence of the 
Association over many young men who have been induced to seek 
THE Berrer Lire through attendance at our meetings, but who 
have now left the city. Instances might here be given full of 
interest through such correspondence. Scarcely a week passes 
without the receipt of one or more letters from parents or friends 
containing earnest appeals for the prayers and efforts of the 
Association on behalf of their sons or relatives. It will be evident 
from the nature of this work that unusual care and wisdom is 
required. 


' 
3 
a 
1 


PERSONAL INTERVIEWS.—This is one of the special features 
of the work of Young Men’s Christian Associations, and here as 
in every city and town where the Association exists, disinterested 
counsel and advice can be sought and is gladly given to any 
young man, whatever his nationality or religious belief. These 
interviews are very numerous, and present almost every variety of 
difficulties, both of a temporal and spiritual nature; they also 
afford unusual opportunities for pressing the claims of the Christian 
life. On account of it being so widely known that a Temperance 
Pledge Book is kept in the Secretary’s Office, large numbers of 
young men who feel their weakness in battling against this temp- 
tation call and sign the Pledge. This also presents invaluable 
opportunities to impress upon those who thus acknowledge their 
weakness, the power of the Gospel of Christ as alone sufficient to 
save from the power of every sin. During the year ine” young 


9 


men have thus come voluntarily and signed the Pledge. It would 
be quite impossible to give any estimate of the number of such 
interviews as described above, as they seem only to be limited by 
the time which the Secretary and Assistant have to devote to that 
work. The special difficulty which meets us daily is how to follow 
up successfully these numerous cases; whenever possible we 
communicate with the pastor of the church they attend, or interest 
some other Christian worker in their case, but we continually feel 
that much is lost by our inability more fully to follow up the work 
thus commenced. 


EMPLOYMENT.—The matter of aiding young men in securing 
employment is another important branch. Applicants names are 
registered as soon as we have reasonable grounds to believe, from 
personal enquiry or correspondence with former employers, that 
they are worthy of our assistance; on this account perhaps not 
more than half of those who make application are registered. By 
personal solicitation, and by replying to advertisements in the 
daily papers we endeavor to place them in suitable situations. 
This work is beset with many difficulties, and requires great caution 
and judgment; but it not unfrequently leads to a permanent 
interest in our work on the part of those who are thus helped in 
their time of need. During the year 271 names have been 
registered, representing the following branches of trade, and for 
s these 103 situations have been secured : 


PCO es bn oo 4 ro oY er a ee Pn 2 
Assistant Office Clerks..... 40 CSTOCGIY ACPEFER. Ops, 5 arene 14 
Books and Stationery...... 5 CrOeT WV CIR sts oo © bnew 39 
Me ee aA One Re, ee I Hardware Clerks... i). 3 
POUNCE DMCS ss cad og os I Farnéss Makers, oo... se +a.s 2 
DIAC SANICDS 8 sve a ees 3 CIOS OVE es hiss od Sake 
Bricklayers and Masons.... 3 Plumbers and Tinsmiths....° 3 
Civil Boginedrs: 324207. 12 I Photographers:.25. 0650.9 @e 2 
Comibctionbts pack ncatvn) 2 Railway Brakesmen........ 2 
Bs | Re One Seay Ca TR a I Shorthand Writers......... 2 
eo, See eee 2 SOCIO ie ok ins a 1c 5 3 
Cabinet Makers .. 35... « 4 SCDOO A ORCIREE a aus 2 oh ways 3 
Coachmen and Grooms..... 21 SHUCUMIMEER eh iso paces so 2 
Commercial Travellers..... 3 steremens 2 Wess Moa 23 
APRON Sega ss oa heen 2 PUAIMERS hic Paes od ee es ee 2 
Dry Goods Salesmen....... 18 PAWS eS aes 6 es by praca sks I 
Engineers and Machinists... 6 Telegraph Operators....... I 
Parmériics «2345 siivkic veo Sie 5 Waiters and House Servants 12 
PREERS hee sy vk ees nk at eae I 


10 


An appeal is here made to our members and other employers 
of labor, to advise us at once of vacancies in any branch of trade, 
and we shall do our utmost to fill them with satisfaction. 


BOARDING Housres.—We have upon our Register 127 houses 
where board and lodgings can be secured, and this is consulted 
daily by strangers and others. 


CONVENTIONS.—Your Secretary was sent as a delegate to the 
Ninth World’s Conference, held in London, Eng., in Aug. There 
were 15 Nations represented, and the Conference was of great 
value to the Associations throughout the world. During that visit 
to England and Scotland your Secretary met with repeated 
evidences of the good work of this Association, through those 
whose sons or relatives had in some way been influenced by the 
meetings. Mr. S. F. Massett fulfilled the duties of Secretary 
during the months of July and August. This Association was 
also represented by the Secretary at the Canadian Convention, 
held in Cobourg in October. Messrs. S. F. Massett and C. Cushing 
were representatives to the International Convention, held in 
Cleveland in May last. 


The “Association Recorp.”-—This monthly bulletin has 
been regularly mailed to all members and subscribers, besides 
1,000 copies for general distribution, and has been found of the 
greatest benefit in spreading general information as to the details 
of our work. It has been sustained for the first year by the 
contribution of one member, without expense to the Association. 


Mr. W. J. Orr resigned as Assistant-Secretary in April last, 
in order to accept the position of General Secretary of the Asso- 
ciation at Amsterdam, N.Y. While the Committee regretted the 
loss of so efficient an assistant, they were pleased to know of his 
advancement in the work. Mr. John Louson has filled the posi- 
tion until November, and it is now filled temporarily by one of 
our active members and workers, Mr. F. E. Jodery. Mr. Louson 
still continues his connection with the Association in the impor- 
tant field of general city mission work and visitation of the sick. 


BENEVOLENT WorK.—Although not a charitable institution, 
this Association finds almost more than it can undertake in meet- 
ing cases of pressing need which come within its notice. It 


+ 
ee ae! ee oe ee ee ae 


ot 


11 


seeks, through its employment agency, to make each applicant 
help himself, but in exceptional cases and after careful enquiry 
young men have been granted aid, simply as a loan, to be returned 
as soon as employment is secured. 


In concluding this report, your Secretary would say that he 
has no way of estimating the full results of our work, either as 
regards the number of conversions which have occurred, or the 
number of christians who have been stimulated to greater activity ; 
or the number in whose hearts have been sown some seeds of the 
Word of Life; we leave it all with our gracious God, who has 
promised to give the increase, and who also says that even a cup 


. of cold water given in His name shall not be without its reward. 


We are glad to know that many thousands have heard of His love, 
and we thank Him with all our hearts for the great privilege He 
has thus granted us of sharing in His glory during another year. 
In these days when “men’s hearts are failing them for fear,” and 
“the love of many is waxing cold,” it becomes us “to put on the 
whole armor of God,” and strive to bear continually a clear 
testimony to the power and joy of the christian life. 


D. A. BUDGE, 
Secretary. 


LECTURES, CLASSES AND MEETINGS. 


MEMBERS OF COMMITTEE. 


T. James Claxton, - - Chatrman. 
D. W. Ross, R. H. Holland, 
Dr. F. W. Kelley, Dr. O. C. Edwards, 
H. J. Mudge, | Wm. B. Dawson. 
A. W. Crombie, R. A. Becket, 
John Murphy, Henry Morton, 
John Louson, H. W. Buchanan, 

D. A. Budge. 


Your Committee beg to report that after considering their 
general work they placed one of their number in charge of each 
meeting who would be responsible for that meeting, and report to 


. 
—rewen, 


12 


the Chairman on the first Monday of each month, froni which the 
reports were prepared for General Committee. This plan has 
been found to work well. The members of Committee 
placed in charge of the various meetings, as a rule took a deep 
interest in arranging for them. Your Committee as a whole met 
monthly for prayer and conference, except during the summer ; 
these seasons have been times of refreshing, as we counselled 
over our work, our difficulties and successes. 


Our BisLe CiassEs—Of which there are four. One on 
Sabbath morning at 9.30 for enquirers and young Christians ; this 
was taught by W. J. Orr, Assistant Secretary, until he left the 
City, since which Mr. Louson has conducted it. The attendance 
at this meeting is small, ranging from eight to fifteen ; but it gives 
the teacher in charge the opportunity for personal contact and 
advice, which has oftimes been of value. 


THE SABBATH AFTERNOON BIBLE Cuass at 3 o’clock, 
under the care of D. A. Budge, Secretary, has had an attendance 
ranging from 40 to 75; and as there are many strangers and those 
who do not attend classes connected with the churches, it has 
proved a wide door of usefulness and one by which many have 
been reached personally. Cases of blessings received have been 
again and again reported. Some bave been developed into 
teachers, taking positions in the Sabbath Schools. 


Tue TurspAy EvENING BIBLE CLAss, under the able teach- 
ing of Prof. Fenwick, has outgrown the accommodation provided 
for it in the parlour, and is now held in the reading-room. ‘This 
class has increased from an attendance of about 30 to 60 and 75. 
The interest developed in the study of God’s word 1s very great, 
and those who attend value highly the instruction given. It is 
one of the encouragements in our work -as we see the increasing 
interest taken in the study of God’s Word. ‘This class is much 
valued by Christians. 


THE SATURDAY AFTERNOON BIBLE CuLass for Sabbath 
School teachers has been conducted by Principal Dawson, of 
McGill College ; the attendance has not been as large as we could 
have wished, numbering from 80 to 100, except on stormy days 
when the attendance was smaller. The Association and the Sun- 
day School teachers of the City owe Dr. Dawson a debt of grati- 


i 


15 
tude for his invaluable instruction. We are highly favored in 
having such a teacher willing to devote his time and talents for 
such a purpose; we trust the coming season will show a larger 
number appreciating the advantages offered by this class. 


THE SABBATH EVANGELISTIC MEETING has been regularly 
held, the attendance seldom going below 350, and from that to 
450. The simplicity with which the truths of the Gospel are 
presented, attracts those who seldom or never attend church 
services. Each Sabbath evening two short Gospel addresses are 
given by the workers, earnest prayers are offered for God’s bless- 
ing upon the Word spoken, Gospel hymns are heartily sung ;_ the 
meeting lasting for one hour. After the public meeting is closed, 
an opportunity is given for any wishing private conversation about 
their soul’s welfare, in a smaller meeting for enquirers held in the 
reading-room. We have reason to believe this meeting is of 
great importance, frequently reaching those who as _ strangers 
coming to our City have no desire to attend church services, but 
will come to our Hall. We know of many who have been 
blessed ; some are remarkable cases, and have encouraged those 
who are working in connection with this meeting. 


THE SABBATH AFTERNOON TEMPERANCE MEETING has been 
sustained with more than ordinary vigor. Mr. Henry Morton, 
who has charge of this meeting, has given it a good deal of time 
—looking out for suitable chairmen and attractive speakers, and 
thoroughly organizing the workers. ‘The result has been not only 
an increased attendance, but also more reliable work done than in 
former years. A system of visitation and kindly assistance has 
been adopted, following up individual cases, which results in much 
benefit. While there are discouragements in this work, there has 
been cause for encouragement ; and it becomes more and more 
evident that the only swre cure for the poor drunkard is for him 
to realize his true position before God as a lost sinner, and trust- 
ing for salvation from ¢Azs and all other sin to the Lord Jesus 
Christ as the only Saviour, and who alone can keep him from 
falling. 


THE Boys’ MEETING is held on Friday evenings; the at- 
tendance and interest has varied a good deal—sometimes a good 
attendance of from 25 to 30, then down again to 10 to 15 ; some- 


ld 


times a marked spiritual interest with enquirers and conversions, 
at other times a lack of both. The workers have shown great 
self-sacrifice in arranging to call for and take home some of the 
younger lads, thus giving an opportunity for personal conversa- 
tion, which has been found of value in many cases. We look 
upon this meeting as of great importance ; some of our present 
workers have been by this means led to Christ Jesus as their 
Saviour, and we look for our future members and workers in 
the Association to develop from the boys attending this meeting. 
It has been kept strictly religious in its character, and conducted 
by our brethren, H. W. Buchanan and W. B. Dawson. 


SATURDAY EVENING YouNG MEn’s MEETING has continued 
an important sphere of usefulness in our work. Here strangers 
are specially welcomed and spoken to ; frequently they take part 
in the meeting. Young converts find openings for their talents in 
speaking and leading in prayer, and at the close, personal conver- 
sation with others. ‘These meetings prove seasons of awakening 
to the careless, of strengthening to Christians, and the anxious are 
pointed to Christ as the only Saviour. We consider this perhaps 
the most important meeting carried on by the Association, and 
would urge the General Committee to give more attention to it 
than has been given in the past. _ It needs more of their presence 
as encouragement and help. Many have come as strangers to find 
not only those who took an interest in their spiritual, but also in 
their temporal welfare. The attendance ranges from 50 to go. 


THE Noonpay PRAYER MEETING has been held without 
intermission, the attendance being from 20 to 25, except at the 
New Year or when notable strangers take the meeting, it increases 
to 60 and 100, We cannot report this meeting a success as the 
class for whom it is specially intended are not present ; very few 
of our business men attend, and even members of our Committee 
are seldom in attendance. . Efforts of various kinds have been 
put forth to increase the interest—such as arranging with our 
Pastors to take charge of certain days of the week and prominent 
laymen other days—but the interest is not sustained. This meet- 
ing should be a source of power and delight to the Christians of 
the City. 


15 


LECTURES AND CLASSES. 


In March last, the following gentlemen were appointed as a 
special Committee to consider the feasibility of educational classes 
and lectures :—Dr. Kelley, Chairman; A. A. Ayer, T. James Clax- 
ton, Chas. Cushing, George Hague, Thos. H. Hodgson, J. Ivinson 
G.T.R., Warden King, A. Kingman, D. Morrice, L. H. Packard, 
D. W.. Ross, J. Murray Smith; J. S. McLachlan, Treasurer ; D. 
A. Budge, Secretary. 


After careful investigation the following facts were brought to 
their attention: That, while this City affords boundless facilities 
to the young men for amusement and dissipation, there are no 
public libraries, no museums, and except in drawing, no educa- 
tional classes for young men of moderate means employed.during 
the day ; that the young men themselves are constantly enquiring 
for increased opportunities for improving their time and bettering 
their position. In view of these facts, they sought the co-opera- 
tion of leading educationists and members of the Medical pro- 
fession, and obtained prominent lecturers and teachers to give 
instruction in Physiology and Hygiene ; Chemistry of common 
things; American History; First Principles of Machinery; also in 
Arithmetic, French, Book-keeping and Phonography. ‘They also 
concluded that for successful work lecturers and teachers should 
be paid, and fees, however small, should be exacted from the 
students. Five thousand circulars were issued and circulated in 
the various warehouses and manutactories of the City. The es- 
timated expense of the scheme was placed at $850, and twenty 
prominent citizens very kindly offered to meet the expense to an 
amount not exceeding $50 each. 


The courses were opened on October 3rd by an inaugural 
lecture from Dr. Dawson, on “The relation of Christian Young 
Men to their Intellectual Life.” It was an effort worthy of the 
subject and the man. The opening lecture in each course was 
made free to all in order to more fully interest the public in our 
intended work. In answer to many requests the Book-keeping 
class was thrown open to ladies. 


CLassEs.—Notwithstanding the many difficulties under which 
the Committee labored—in the unsuitable accommodation in the 
Building, and having to open each class at 7 o’clock—the attend- 


15 


ance has surpassed all expectation, and each teacher has borne 
testimony to the uniform good conduct and the interest manifested 
by the students. In Commercial Arithmetic, conducted by Mr. 
C. A. Humphrey, the attendance has averaged 55 to 70; in 
French, taught by Rev. A. B. Cruchet, 50 to 65 ; in Phonography, 
taught by Mr. D. A. Budge, 40 to 50; in Book-keeping, by Mr. 
P. S. Ross, 85 to 95 gentlemen, and 12 to 15 ladies. 


Applications were received for branch classes at Point St. 
Charles, but although the field was most inviting the Committee 
felt that they could not occupy it, at least during the present year. 


LEcTURES.—Considering that they are strictly educational in 
their character, these courses have been deservedly successful, and 
no pains have been spared by the lecturers on preparation or 
illustration. In Chemistry, Mr. Donald has treated of 
** Water,” ‘ Air,” “Starch and Glucose,” “‘ Fermentation,” ‘ Salt,” 
“Phosphorous,” and “Smokes and Fogs of Manufacturing 
Cities.” The attendance has been from roo to 150. In the 
medical course the attendance has been 150 to 225. Dr. Camp- 
bell has lectured on “ Winter and its Dangers”; Dr. Sheppard, 
on “The Human Skeleton”; Dr. Roddick, on ‘The Skin” ; 
Dr. Beers, on ‘The Teeth”; Dr. Proudfoot, on ‘The Eye” ; 
Dr. Sutherland, on ‘ Food and Digestion” ; Dr. Osler, on ‘‘ The 
Brain”; Dr. Mills, on “The Voice and Respiration”; Dr. 
Perrigo, on “ Out-door Sports” ; Dr. Gardner, on ‘ Health in re- 
lation to the House”; and Dr. Cameron, on ‘“ Preventable Dis- 
eases.” ‘I’wo courses of ten or more lectures follow after the 
New Year—one by Dr. Kelley on ‘ American History,” a subject 
of special interest to all Canadians ; and another on “ The First 
Principles of Machinery,” by Dr. Robins, who has made this a 
special study. 


The Committee are glad to report that they expect the re 
ceipts to cover all the expenses of the undertaking. 


The results are wholly good ; young men are given a thorough 
mental training for a mere trifle, and come in contact with a score 
of the most prominent teachers of the City. A large element 
has been drawn within the healthful influence of the Association ; 
unjust prejudices have been dissipated ; and the usefulness of the 
library has been greatly increased. 


17 


The thanks of the Association are specially due to the Press 
for the invaluable aid they have given in reporting and announcing 
these lectures, aud also to the medical lecturers for their gratuitous 
services rendered so heartily, 


F. W. KELLEY, 


Chatrman. 


Your Committee would, in addition to the above meetings, 
report the following’ special meetings held during the visits of 
prominent Christian workers to our City: 


Miss Macpuerson, of London, England, the little wander- 
ers’ friend, and Miss Perks, of Colchester, on two occasions ad- 
dressed meetings of workers, stirring us up to greater activity in 
the Master’s cause. | 


Mr. Rosert GRAHAM, of the Church of England ‘Temper- 
ance Society of Manchester, addressed some meetings with ac- 
ceptance and great power, 


Mr. GreorcE WILLIAMS, an evangelist from Glasgow, did us 
good service not only in our meetings, but also at the Volunteer 
Camp at St. Johns. 


Mr. R. C. Morcan, of the London CaAristian, and the 
venerated Dr. A. Bonar, gave us a little of their presence and 
words of cheer. 


Our much-loved brother, H. THANE MILLER, of Cincinatti, 
spent some days with us by arrangement of the International 
Committee. He conducted a conference of Christian workers, 
and addressed public meetings in different places. We always 
value this gifted brother’s visits. 


And lastly, Mr. D. L. Moopy, that eminent servant of God, 
paid us a visit on his way to England, conducting a conference of 
Christian workers on the morning of September 24th, in the old 
Zion Church. Over 800 were present, including nearly all the 
Pastors, many of the superintendents and teachers in our Sabbath 
Schools, and others engaged in special work. Mr. Moody’s ad- 
dress will not soon be forgotten ; many were stimulated to fresh 

C 


18 


energy and life in their Christian work. In the afternoon, he ad- 
dressed probably the largest gathering for strictly religious pur- 
poses ever held during the daytime in Montreal, the St. James 
street Church being crowded to excess, notwithstanding the day 
was very unfavorable. We have reason to believe that Mr. 
Moody was impressed with the importance of the position of 
Montreal, where a great work might be done ; and we shall hope 
for his return to enter upon a Series of meetings in this City. 


T. JAMES CLAXTON, 


Chairman. 
MISSION COMMITTEE. 

R. Henderson, - Chairman. 
John Murphy, Geo. Lamb, 
S. F. Massett, Geo. Young, | 
R. H. Buchanan, A. Kingman, 
J. Louson, P. Sinclair, 4 

WORKERS. | 
J. Dumaresq, G. Harrower, 
C. Anderson, A. B. Gwilt, 
W. Law, A. Ogilvie, 
A. Lanskail, W. Outhwaite, 
John Wilson, Jas. Wilson, 
Geo. Inglis, R. Daikers, 
A. Holliday, D. Cameron, : 
E. H. Blackadder, R. H. Ross, ) 
A. Dutton, Dz F. McCarthy, 
C. Fallon, C, 2 Scot, 
H. L. Putnam, H. O. Wilson, 
D. W. Ross, Geo. Creak, 
R. H. Holland, Alex. Craig, 
And others. 


The following branches of work have been carried on during 
the year, viz. :— 


CotraGE MEETINGS were held weekly at 709 Main street and 
41 Coté Street under charge of Bros. P. Sinclair and C. E, Scott, 


19 


with one or two assistants. None of these meetings had a large 
attendance, but quite an interest was manifested whilst they were 
carried on. The chairmen have from time to time reported bless- 
ing resulting therefrom. 


THe FRENCH MEETING, corner Craig and Gain streets, was 
opened on Sunday evening, April 3rd, and continued every Sun- 
day and Thursday up to Sunday, the 6th November. Mr. W. B. 
Dawson had the oversight of this work and reported an attendance 
varying “from 5 to 20, with considerable interest. In the early 
part of July Mr. Dawson was obliged to leave the city, we were 
not able to secure a suitable substitute, and the meeting has con- 
sequently suffered to such an extent that it has been thought ad- 
visable to discontinue it. The workers, however, report that 
‘many Roman Catholics have listened to the truth with much 
interest and attention,” and that ‘‘many have received French 
tracts and Gospel literature.” In this way the seed has been 
sown, and we look to God for the increase. 


An English meeting was also held for a short time in the 
same place on Tuesday evenings under the supervision of Mr. 
Sinclair, but could not be sustained. 


Fire Stations,—All the fire stations were regularly visited 
every Sunday morning by three of our workers, Messrs. Lanskail, 
Wilson and ; illustrated papers and magazines were 
distributed, which are ever thankfully received by the firemen. 


HospitaL.—A Gospel meeting and service of song has been 
held every Sunday morning from 9.45 to 10.30. Mr. Sinclair has 
been present constantly, and has been assisted by one or more 
workers at each time. Different members have taken the chair, 
and have thus given more interest to the meeting and to the 
patients who attend. We have to acknowledge the great assist- 
ance rendered by three Christian ladies, who help in the service 
of song, and also visit the Wards inviting the patients to attend. 
The attendance has varied from 7 to 20. A suggestion is made 
by Mr. Sinclair that Gospel slips be printed with an invitation 
thereon to the meeting, and distributed in the different wards. 


Point St. CHARLES.—Special efforts were put forth during 
the fall months of last year to awaken an interest in Christian 


26 


work amongst the employees of the Grand Trunk Railway Com- 
pany. ‘These efforts were heartily seconded by the Rev. Mr. 
Cruikshanks, pastor of St. Matthew’s Presbyterian Church, and 
several of the elders and active members of his congregation, who 
placed the school-house belonging to the church at the service of 
the Association for one night in the week, generously supplying 
attendance, gas and fuel. An evangelistic meeting was held re- 
gularly once a week from November to May last. The services 
usually consisted of brief Gospel addresses by different members 
of the Association, and Scripture reading, song and _ prayer. 
Miss Maver, of Point St. Charles, kindly presided at the organ, 
and interest was sustained by her voice and the voices of other 
Jady friends of the Association, who came from their houses in 
central Montreal. These meetings were attended by numbers 
ranging from 25 to 65 persons, with some few exceptions reaching 
considerably above the higher figure ; and a good degree of in- 
terest was always manifest. At first the attendance was largely 
made up of church members ; but later on, a fair proportion of 
those whose welfare was especially sought—the non-church goers 
—were habitually present. Two other meetings were also insti- 
tuted at Point St Charles last fall. One, a cottage prayer-meeting 
at g Hibernia Road; and the second, a chapel meeting at Vic- 
toria Mission. The former attracted a gathering of from 5 to 2s 
persons ; the latter, from to #0 40. The Victoria Mission meet- 
ing was held continuously once a week until May; that at 
Hibernia Road was discontinued some weeks earlier owing to the 
departure of late Assistant-Secretary Orr. During the month of 
November, a further effort was made to promote Christian work 
in this locality by the circulation of a petition to the Grand 
Trunk Railway authorities that the Association might have the 
use of the large room in which many of the employees take their 
dinner, for the purpose of holding a Sunday. afternoon Gospel 
service. Over 70 signatures were obtained to this petition ; and 
its presentation to Mr. H. Wallis, Mechanical Superintendent, 
met with a very kindly assent. A meeting was at once organized 
under the special conduct of Mr. S. F. Massett, assisted by Mr. J. 
Curtis Clark, Superintendent of the Grand Trunk Railway 
Reading Room, and by other members of the Association. 
Much attraction and interest was lent to this service by the sing- 


— ap tng, i 


21 


ing of Gospel hyinns by Mrs. Budge, who was present from timé 
to time. ‘This meeting has been continued until the present time 
and now looks te be a most permanent and hopeful field for 
Association work. A subscription list has been circulated 
amongst the men for the purchase of an organ ; the amount re- 
quired was freely given, and the organ has been procured. With 
this addition to the attractions and efficiency of the service, the 
outlook for the present winter season will be highly encouraging. 
The attendance throughout the year has ranged from 15 to 75 
persons ; and is at present 20 to 30, with a tendency to improve- 
ment. ‘The only fruit of this work at the Point that admits of 
definite statement is an accession to the membership of the 
Association of some 40 employees of the Grand Trunk Railway ; 
but Mr. Ivinson, Overseer of the Carshops, to whose personal 
efforts, energy and zeal this increase was directly due, has borne 
witness to the good influence of the meetings upon the men; 
and the Rev. Mr. Cruikshanks, writing upon another matter to 
the Secretary, incidentally mentions that he has met with some 
encouraging fruits of the work done at the Sunday afternoon 
meeting. Our chief source of encouragement, however, must be 
in the fact that the seed has been sown, the Word of God has 
been proclaimed from week to week in the hearing of these num- 
bers (some of whom do not attend any other place of worship), 
and our hopes for the future and our confidence in the past, rest 
upon the sure promise, “ Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing 
by the Word of God.” 3 


SAILORS.—Every Sunday morning at 8 o’clock an average of 
14 workers have met in the Sailors’ Institute, and after prayer 
have two by two visited the vessels in port, from Hochelaga to 
Wind-Mill Point end Canal, distributing tracts in different lan- 
guages. About 105,000 tracts and 2,000 cards of the Institute 
were distributed. Mr. Dumaresq has been chairman of this band 
of workers. Mr. Ritchie, Manager of the Institute, has always 
been present, and taken the general oversight of the work. Gos- 
pel meetings have been held regularly on Monday, Tuesday, 
Wednesday and Thursday evenings, at which two and three of 
our workers have been present on most occasions. The attend- 
ance of sailors has varied from 1 to 20; interest has, however, 
been sustained, and good testimony given by sailors and others, 


22 
Mr. Ritchie reports many enquiring the Way of Life, and says, 
“We often felt the presence of the Lord with us, and we had 
‘very precious times while he gave to us from the lips of his 
“servants, accompanied by the Holy Ghost, the words which are 
“the power of God unto salvation to every one that believeth.” 
Lady friends have greatly aided in the musical part of this work. 


SPECIAL Work has been carried on outside of the City, 
particulars of which are reported by Mr. Massett, as follows :— 
“Immediately upon my return from the Cleveland Convention, 
upon a call from the Rey. Mr. Shearer, of Bear Brook, P.Q., I 
went to that Settlement, and for a few days carried on evangelistic 
services under the auspices of the several churches in that locality. 
The meetings grew in interest and attendance until the church 
was full, the people coming from miles around and listening with 
unwavering attention. ‘They continued for a fortnight thereafter, 
the Rev. James McCall assisting in the meetings, which, I learn, 
were well sustained throughout. Upon my return from Bear 
Brook, preparations for the tent and Gospel services at the Volun- 
teer Camp at St. Johns, P.Q., next engaged my time. In refer- 
ence to this work, I would refer the Committee for details to the 
account given in the Association Record for July ; here I would 
merely state that the whole work was carried out with much suc- 
cess. The tent was very freely used as a Reading-room, and all 
the facilities offered for pastime or occupation were constantly 
availed of and greatly enjoyed. Through the thoughtful kindness 
of Mr. Packard, dominoes, checkers and other games were in 
good supply ; and by a contribution from Miss Macpherson, of 
London, the volunteers were provided with some thousands of 
tracts and Gospel literature of a very superior style and character. 
All these things were eagerly sought for and freely used by the 
men. ‘The Gospel services held every evening were well attended 
throughout, the numbers ranging from too to 300. The following 
gentlemen kindly took part:—Reyv. Messrs. L. N. Beaudry, G. 
H. Wells, Canon Baldwin, Prof. Fenwick, James McCall and 
Hugh Johnston, of this City ; and Messrs. Carruthers, Lewis and 
Mills, of St. Johns. Mr. Geo. Williams, of Glasgow, an evan- 
gelist for some years past, and prior to his conversion seven years 
ago, an actor, took a leading and most efficient part in nearly all 
the meetings, and did much to sustain and intensify the interest 


23 


aroused either by himself or the different visiting clergymen. 
The volunteers took special occasion to express their thanks for 
the work that had been done, through Col. McEchran, of the 
50th Regiment, who spoke warmly of the kindness shown by the 
Association, and also by Captain Jamieson, of the 60th, who on 
the following and last night of the tent meetings and of the en- 
campment, alluded very feelingly to the good that had been done, 
in a short speech, closing with the presentation of an envelope 
covering a collection of $6.25, taken up privately amongst his 
own men as a contribution towards the general expenses. In 
this work the thanks of the Association are due to the generous 
aid of several residents of St. Johns, of whom I would particularly 
mention Mr. Macpherson, the Misses Macpherson, Mr. and Mrs. 
Couzins, Mr. and Mrs. Franks, Mr. and Mrs. Cootts, Rev. Mr. 
Lewis, Miss Lewis, the Messrs. Tees, Mr. Gillespie, Mr. Irwin, 
Rey. Mr. Carruthers and Rev. Mr. Mills. One of the direct re- 
sults of the camp work is that 97 names were obtained to the 
temperance pledge book.” 


R. HENDERSON, 


Chairman. 


ROOMS AND LIBRARY COMMITTEE. 


Dr. O. C. Edwards. - + Chairman. 
G. E. Jaques, J. M. Smith, Dr. F. W. Kelley, 
W. G. Brown. 
Your Committee beg to report that the magazines and papers 
have been received with regularity during the year. 


The Reading-Room is increasingly used by young men, the 
number of daily visitors being about 200, not including attend- 
ance at the meetings. | 


The Library, after having been closed for about one year, is 
again open; and there is an increasing demand for books, es- 
pecially those relating to Canada and its present centre of attrac- 
tion—the North-West. 


24 


Proper doors and fastenings have been affixed, the cost ne- 
cessary having been defrayed by the Association. ‘The Committee 
have received during the year the following amounts for books for 
the library :—Mr. ‘T. H. Hodgson, $100; Mr. David Morrice, 
$100; Mr. S. Carsley, $15 ; and have expended the money re- 
ceived, as follows :— 1 


POG gh kbs coke tion he Kine eee tele ok Mews 12 volumes. 
HORTATING. 505 ree ee Ry ee elites Chae y by fe 7 
DET as ees RE ho Raa Paes hic bie ys 25 af 
SARTO he al un dai. SDA Ret RG 10 * 
Enpiish Witeratarets. £ioii/.was, <oinl. dh de 9 i 
OA IIRR nn} cerccarins tee ante RS 4G hee best Il a 
NI ECPIOTBOUS ois oe aoe a de ee bbb NS CRA 47 si 
Library of Universal Knowledge............ 12 % 
Encyclopeedia Brittanica (new edition). ...... 12 : 
TOA tee vba ae a hee 150 am 


The cost of papers and periodicals during the past year was 
$167.32, and the amount realized by the annual sale of magazines 
and papers, $38.40. 


We deem this a fitting time to draw the attention of Asso- 
ciation friends, both members and those outside who may cor- 
dially endorse the work carried on by this organization, to the 
great need of a better stocked library. It will be apparent to any 
who may take the trouble to consider the matter, that the useful- 
ness of the Association is becoming each year more and more 
extended—the number of young men freqnenting the rooms is 
annually increasing ; while this is so the Library Committee have 
to deplore the fact that the library, a most helpful adjunct in 
Association work, has not received the attention which it merits. 
It is true that we have a number of books on the shelves ; but 
how did many of them come there? From the former Secretary 
we learn that when an appeal to the Montreal public was made 
for books, some excellent and useful books were donated, but in 
many instances books were sent down which were lumbering up 
the shelves of private libraries—useless they were in the private 
libraries, and useless they were and are in the public library. In 
asking for books, therefore, we would in all justice to the best in- 
terests of those who desire to get knowledge and useful informa- 
tion request that the existing catalogue be examined, and if any 


25 


one desires in addition to contribute a book or books, let them be 
worth giving, and then they will be worth possessing; or send a 
money contribution to the Secretary for this object, and possibly 
the Committee could spend it more judiciously, knowing what we 
lack and what we need. We gratefully acknowledge the amounts 
received in the past towards the purchasing of new books, but re- 
membering the multitude and the existing hunger for, mental 
bread, we are constrained to say, ‘‘ What are these among so 
many ?” 


O. C. EDWARDS, 


Chairman. 
INVITATION COMMITTEE. 
S. F. Massett, - - Chairman. 
Geo. Lamb, A. D. Lanskail, Alf. Griffith, 
Jos. Locke, Wop Orr, . James Rea, 
John Ohling, A. F. Reid, W. Warwick, 


Geo. Williams. 


The work of the Committee is to distribute invitations to at- 
tend meetings—particularly the Young Men’s Meeting, held every 
Saturday night. They meet at 7.15 o’clock for a short service of 
prayer, before going out to their work. ‘The average attendance 
throughout the year has been five. Some of the members were 
away from the City during the summer, and some were occasion- 
ally constrained to give their time to business. Each member 
takes from 50 to roo leaflets containing on one side announce- 
ments of the Saturday Evening Meeting and other services, and 
on the other a number of Scripture texts. They proceed to 
allotted stations at the corners of the principal thoroughfares 
leading to the Association Building, and there for halfan-hour 
hand leaflets to the passers-by; others go to the Windsor, St. 
Lawrence, Ottawa, Albion and American Hotels, where they dis- 
tribute the invitations in the halls and billiard-rooms. 


The number of invitations distributed during the past year 
is about 21,000, or an average of nearly 400 per week. In addi- 
; D 


26 


tion the Committee has distributed 3,000 special invitations at 
Point St. Charles, either from door to door or by hand, to the 
men employed in the Grand Trnnk Railway Shops, and 4,000 
notices in French from house to house at the East End of the 
City, inviting the people to French Gospel services held through- 
out the summer at the corner of Craig and Gain streets. The 
full extent of the distribution carried on by the Committee is thus 
seen to be 28,000 invitations, covering pretty thoroughly the ex- 
treme east and west ends of the City, but particularly occupying 
the great thoroughfares which lie around Victoria Square—and 
the hotels. 


The distributors report that a considerable minority immed1- 
ately read the slips, while a good majority by retaining them in 
hand or pocket, seem to purpose reading them at another time. 
This does not apply, however, to those circulated among the French, 
which with still very many encouraging exceptions, were habitually 
received with indifference or indignation. 


It was proposed early in the year to distribute invitations in 
the different bar-rooms of the central portion of the City, and 
permission was very kindly and readily granted by a number of 
bar-room proprietors, but the membership of the Committee did 
not keep up to a point to permit the execution of the project, so 
the undertaking was abandoned. 


A few gratifying instances of the efficacy of the work of this 
Committee have come to light in the course of the year, chiefly 
through the testimony of strangers who have been led to the 
meeting through its agency. Encouragement is also taken from 
the consideration that impressions more or less distinct and last- 
ing must necessarily follow the receipt of the invitation taken in 
connection with its character ; but above all, confident hope that 
the work does good and will do good is sustained, through faith 
in the promise that “cas the rain cometh down and the snow from 
“heaven, aud returneth not thither but watereth the earth; and 
‘“‘maketh it bring forth and bud, that it may give seed to the 
“sower and bread to the eater ; so shall my Word be that. goeth 
“forth out of my mouth, it shall not return unto me void, but it 
“shall accomplish that which I please, and shall prosper in the 
‘thing whereto I sent it,” | 


S. F. MASSETT, 
Chairman. 


27 
MEMBERSHIP COMMITTEE. 


W. Paul, - - Chairman. 
W. Tees, A. P. Willis, A. D. Lanskail. 
G. S. Kimber, R. H. Buchanan, A. F. Reid, 
William King, Andrew Holliday, C, Cushing. 


Your Committee have much pleasure in reporting that they 
made efforts at the beginning of the year to bring the claims of 
our Association before the various congregations of the City, 
which have resulted in an addition to our membership—the 
latter not being quite so large as we anticipated ; and your Com- 
mittee, therefore, believe that if our own members in the various 
churches to which they belong and at their daily avocations, were 
to remember our Association—its privileges and its work—and be 
on the watch for young men, strangers, coming amongst them, 
and others growing up around them, a much greater increase 
would speedily be reported. And, therefore, your Committee 
would earnestly recommend all the members to interest them- 
selves in the way indicated. 

In considering the list of applications for membership from 
time to time, it occurred to your Committee that they would like 
to make the acquaintance of these young men, and accordingly 
they proposed to the General Committee the propriety of inviting 
these new members to meet them in a social way, explain the 
work, prospects and plans of the Association to them, and try to 
make them feel at home in the rooms. 

The General Committee heartily approved of this suggestion 
and two such meetings were held during the year which were 
quite successful ; and your Committee beg leave to request their 
successors in office, if possible, to hold similar meetings more fre- 
quently. 

During the year 148 members have been added, making .in 
all 1,022, divided as follows :-— 


RAVE IGS. AO eG W: CO 5Io 
ASSOCMIG dirs. isicc tba ndsta mt gel eitaeskile 188 
DN i a i os al an nd sg oe So 28 
OT Te Re ae ear 46 
USES So swine oie Lies hy ak eee 250 

along stall ae aa 1,022 


WALTER PAUL, 
Chairman. 


28 


RECEPTION COMMITTEE. 


J. B. Picken, - - Chatrman. 
Wm. Henderson, A. P. Willis, G. Wallace, 
W. F. Scott, Alf. Griffith. J. Dumaresq, 
T. M. Henderson, A. N. Webster. 


A number of the members of this Committee were obliged 
to resign during the year, owing to press of other duties, and we 
have found it very difficult to find others to fill their places, and 
in consequence have not always been able to have a member on 
duty as is intended; still the general attendance throughout the 
year has been good. ‘The rooms have been closed with Bible 
reading and prayer during the greater part of the year, with an 
average number of seven taking part. 


We have an average attendance of visitors to the Rooms 
each evening of about 30. 


J. B. PICKEN, 


Chairman. 
VISITATION COMMITTEE. 
D. W. Ross, Chatrman. 
George Young. John Louson. S. F. Massett. 


W. B. Dawson. 


The visiting of this Committee has been done almost entirely 
by Mr. Massett and Mr. Louson. 


The efforts of the Committee have been largely confined to 
the General Hospital, though not wholly so. A young man ill of 
consumption, living in Chaboillez Square, was visited constantly 
till he died ; a gentleman, living in the West End, sent requesting 
some one to visit him, which was done, and gratefully acknowledged, 
though the restored health has not brought with it a change in the 
life which previously had been most unsatisfactory. A gentleman 
afflicted with aneurism was visited repeatedly by a member of the 
Committee, his life hung as by a thread, which the slightest 
agitation or excitement might snap; he was very eager to obtain 
eternal life, and read whatever was given him with that object in 


29 


view ; the thread did snap one day, but before he passed away 
he had given satisfactory evidence that his faith was simply resting 
upon the finished work of Christ, and that His promises in the 
Word were his sole confidence and ground of assurance. A young 
woman from Edinburgh, Scotland, who regularly attended the 
Noon Prayer Meeting, when ill in the Western Hospital for 
women, requested to be visited. The medical staff told her the case 
was hopeless and she ought to return to her friends, but she had 
no funds or friends able to help, your visitor therefore collected $50 
outside the Y. M. C. A. and sent her home in the S.S. “ Dominion,” 
which she gratefully acknowledged on her arrival. A young 
married man, a clerk in an office, had a long spell of typhoid fever 
in the General Hospital, and had to resume work before he was 
fit for it, he broke down from weakness and his employers gave 
him another fortnight to rest, but living in a low-lying part of the 
City in the month of July, he was not likely to gain strength. 
He was told to exercise the “patience of hope” (Rom., xv. 4) 
and wait. That same morning, a gentleman on his way to his 
office called at the Young Men’s Christian Association, saying, 
“if we knew of any one needing a change to the country or sea- 
side to send them off at his expense.” That evening the Quebec 
boat took down the young man, his wife and little one for a fort- 
night sojourn at Murray Bay at an expense of $25 to the gentle- 
man. When he was informed of it, the feeling of pleasure 
seemed to be so great he thought he would like to send another, 
and that day a request was received to visit a poor though at one 
time notorious woman, who had been redeemed at the Sabbath 
evening service. She had sprained her ankle, and so was pre- 
vented going out choring for a living; “Oh, if I could only get 
to the country ” (near Ottawa), she said, “it would make a new 
woman of me ;” when given the means to carry out her wishes, 
those who know her can fancy her exultant shout as she cried, 
‘Praise the Lord, I knew he would be thinking on me!” 


It would be quite impossible to give anything like a detailed 
account of the visitation at the General Hospital. The stream 
of human suffering flowing through that building is without inter- 
mission—week in and week out your visitor has endeavored, as 
occasion offered, to minister both to the temporal and spiritual 
necessities of the many sailors, strangers and others receiving its 


30 


betiefit. Four young men who died in the Hospital and weré 
buried in Mount Royal Cemetery, an account of the death and 
burial of three of them having appeared in the Monthly Record, 
it is not necessary to refer to them; the fourth, being a Mason, 
was visited when living by members of the lodge he belonged to, 
and buried at their expense when dead. A trifling circumstance 
occurred in connection with his burial which by some may be re- 
garded as puerile, yet illustrates Miss MHavergal’s lines on 
‘¢ Ministers : ”--— 
‘* When the heart is overwrought, 


Oh, who can tell 
The power of such little things, to make it well.” 


The visitor, finding it impossible to go out to the Cemetery, re- 
quested the undertaker to bring him in a few wild flowers from 
the grave, to enclose in the letter he had to write to the widow in 
Glasgow ; the man, instead, cut a piece of the turf and brought 
it. The little box containing it and a lock of the dead husband 
and father’s hair was received, and acknowledged by the widow ina 
very touching letter ; the sight of the little clod from the grave 
she could never see with her own eyes, had moved her beyond 
adequate expression ; this may be mere sentiment but it is very 
real. It may be in place here to suggest the necessity of the 
Young Men’s Christian Association acquiring a lot in the Ceme- 
tery of Mount Royal, to lay to rest till the resurrection those 
brethren who, though “ strangers and foreigners,” are one with us 
in ‘that blessed hope,” and whose bodies are now scattered up 
and down throughout the Cemetery. Had the Association a lot 
all might rest together and rise together, for “the dead in Christ 
shall rise first.” 


A touching instance of your Committee’s visitation at the 
Hospital might be mentioned in the case of a very fine young 
man, who came from the Townships to be treated for his eyes, 
which had been fatally injured while splitting wood ; one eye was 
removed, and the other from sympathy became blind. But the 
eyes of his soul were opened, and “he saw Jesus.” On his re- 
turn to his (to him) now darkened home, very quaint and touch- 
ing letters were received from time to time, signed ‘‘ Levi’s 
Mother,” describing her own feelings as she looked at the patient 
face of the beloved son, and describing how wonderfully, as in 


31 


the case of the blind Postmaster-General of England, the re- 
moval of one sense was almost made up by the more acute and 
sensitive power acquired by the others, viz.: touch, hearing and 
smell. Some one having given him a faithful, intelligent dog, he 
was able to visit the neighboring farms by himself; then he sent 
seven dollars to be invested by your visitor in articles of constant 
use. These were sent, together with packages of tracts and papers 
to be scattered amongst the homesteads as he did his little trade. 
The $7 produced $13, that $23, and this week $43 is received 
and invested in seasonable, easily-carried goods; but “ Levi’s 
Mother ” writes, ‘‘ It is not the money she regards at all, it is the 
new life developed in the blind lad, the wonderful facility he dis- 
plays as to the goods, not to speak of the good he does scattering 
seeds of eternal truth in the printed pages he carries with him, 
and which all and sundry carefully read out of sympathy and pity 
for the giver, let us hope to their own everlasting good.” 


VISITATION AT THE JAIL has been almost a blank, owing to 
circumstances over which the Association has no control. = In- 
dividual prisoners have been dealt with and followed up after 
completing their sentence, but it would not be judicious to go 
further into detail, though much that is of interest might be told 
were it wise to do so. Let believing prayer be continued that the 
limited opportunities afforded for intercourse with the prisoners 
may be blessed and acknowledged as in the past. 


D. W. ROSS, 


Chairman. 


FINANCE COMMITTEE, 


Your Committee are glad to be able to repeat the statement 
made in last year’s Annual Report, that since the organization of 
our Association our financial position has never been so favorable 
as it is to-day. All current expenses are paid, and we owe no 
man anything. For this happy condition of our finances, we 
would render thanks to our Fleavenly Father. Our collectors 


32 


have been uniformly received with kindness, and a generous res- 
ponse made to all appeals. 


The receipts from subscriptions and donations have increased 
during the year and amount to $3,205, and the fees from mem- 
bership $318; life membership, $300. 


THE Desr on the Building at last Annual Meeting was 
$s,509, but has been reduced by $2,826 during this year, leaving 
2,683 still due, which we hope our friends to whom God has 
given the means will soon come forward and pay off, and thus 
place our Association Building free of debt, and enable the 
Association with greater vigor than ever to carry on the special 
work which our Master has called us to do in this large City. 


We desire gratefully to thank the many friends who have so 
generously and kindly assisted us with their contributions, and 
trust that the results of the work done by the various committees 
will be satisfactory evidence that the money has been well used, 
and that large numbers of young men have been greatly bene- 
fitted not only in temporal things, but many have been made 
heirs of the Kingdom of Heaven. 


lL. i. PACKARD, 


Chairman. 
R. THOMAS, 


Secretary. 


33 


tong | SUNOE SL ISBT ‘quaaoN Tol “TVANLNOW 


SSOU Ssanvi[ 
| “Aainsva4. “NWTHOWIOW pe i ‘J991109 punoy pu poulwex 4] 
a ge a Meron Reece = 
9zZ 9g¢ Seg” 2 8S SES MOD MpiIIES JogEtEE Oy. 
£9 Loe S$ £9 Loe S$ te 
97 Bg ie ae ee ee ge oe x a ee 
LE 6lzSg 
CS VEL = sf tyes:: “*"**syuaurded yews Arpung ,, es 
11 Lor spun Areqry 0} ue ,, 
Oz gz _aatat eo 4-42 “Romy quoasuen _, 
00 of tees toe eo 
“MOD PATNIIXGY OFUOIOT, 0} uodizdsqne¢ ,, 
LS g¢ Sea te ot eee ee eae ¥ 
OI 91 ee oo Na ot = a° GPO SS 85 Ss: spcieaics = bets 
SL ozz ata. yn oe suredayy * 89 90% f= zips TONED Ae one orogens puny Sur 
oe. Bee Seg eae AQUOEFIS  ». | PIM wor porajsuey syuay jo joy ,, 
o$ ihr _** *suinturaig souvinsuy ,, cy eae Sy |e \s019]UT 
be toh: B22 = Rake " SHapuIssosSy pue Sd}VY ,, TET og. Se enews aaa wees soa diysraquayy e 
* af oa Rie a OO. OOF. F y+ tits aay. “Trees s + «drysraquiayy IT ,, 
eat nt ts eae ee ee PARE SEEMS 5, 00 S0¢E t+ +++ suoneuog pu suondrosqne ,, 
OO en - Sse pe JUNOIDY Suisn2apy ,, £609 ¢ wet : 
LE gg she oo as Sarjaavry, ,, ee oar rere | "''* sss esasuadxa sory ,, 
86.079 Sipe — Redline So [oy pue ser) ” SZ O6G' stoke en. ‘UOT}O9T]OD Aressaaruuy 
00 06h ‘z¢ Tad dy} Io sarees Mq S6oL ¢ per ee-3 "tse ereak yser wos oureg OT 


19 


‘SINAWAVd SLdHIAOAY 


LEST “YIOE saguanony Surpuy 402 X ‘SASNIdXY LNAWIN 


34 


Montreal Poung Men's Christian Association. 


BurtLpiInGc Funp Account, Year ending November joth, 1881. 


oH hie se DI I a erie asec 


RECEIPTS. 
To Amount of Rents received...........-2e sees ees $1,412 00 
‘© Amounts received this year toward Reduction of 
Building debt..........0c ee eee eee ee ee ees 3,018 44 
———- $4,430 44 
PAYMENTS. 
By Balanee due per last Statement.....-.--..++++++5 $5,509 82 
‘¢ Interest on Mortgage. ...... eee ee eee eee eee rece 192 50 
‘¢ Amount of Rents transferred to Current Expenses 
ACCOURE. . os ews do swe 5 ARs wheels cee tls sate 1,412 OO 
$7,114 32 
Balance due Treasurers... 0.5.0: .e0008- Je ce nuns $2,683 88 


JOHN S. McLACHLAN, 


Treasurer. 
Examined and found correct, 
tee TONES.” Auditors. 


Liprary Account, Year ending November 3Zoth, 1881. 


—— i ee en — 


RECEIPTS. 
To Grant from Current Expenses Account........... .. $107 11 
‘¢ Donation by David Morrice.........5.-. see eee eee 100 00 
$207 II 
PAYMENTS. 


By Amounts paid for Books. &c.........-- SS ain 5 9 pr gain $207 I1 


JOHN S. McLACHLAN, 


Treasurer. 
Examined and found correct, 


JAMES ROSS, } z.5 
TC. JONES, Geer” 


MONTREAL. 30th November, 1881. 


LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS 


TO THR 


Montreal Young Men’s Christian Association 


For the Year ending November 80th, 1881. 


APALA, Be Co, hel. 6 $25.00 
Ames, Holden & Co......4 20.00 
PRIS Wan 65.0 ay oe AE 10.00 
AGED 8 61 PE x, yA, 5.00 
Atkin, James!) iy. 22 2c e0dd.3 5.00 
Anderson, Robt .........., 25.00 
Buchanan, W. O..:....... 5.00 
Bell, Simpson & Co........ 10.00 
Buchanan, H. W.......... 10.00 
Birks, Arthtit (4.40.4... 2.00 
Barre, H. Dr., of London, 

Life Membership...... 100.00 
Brus) GP oy a 4 a: 10.00 
Biaer’ & Liddle ti0 vito 5.00 
Bissett, Jateee 77,21 Ree 5-00 
Brown AL Rae ion 5.00 
Brows, Wi we iA 5.00 
Tres, ee Pere, Se ta s8 2.00 
Brodie & Harvie........... 5-00 
Boyt Rs TG e re tis 2.00 
PGE ee MASE SETA Ar Ze 2.00 
Bie Te Ae Ee 2.00 
FARE See eee Ye, 2.00 
Bery; Jameee se eo. 5.00 
Benny, Rage ce ee 5.00 
oe ak: Ob ed aed a 10.00 
eee, Soe Sates Or’, he Maree ck 10.00 
Bxyits, Jauesr */2 5c se9)) 5.00 
Barry, Greens, 54s ss peep 5-00 
Bick, Ts. St, Seas 2.00 
Brissetté, Mi He; 55). 722 1, 4.00 
Bottereih, Te Fins tent 5.00 
BOW y SS Sees LAAN 5-00 
Boater Gre 8 lt 2.00 


Baillie, Andrew. .......,... 2.00 
Buchanan, R. H..... 10.00 
Barrington, Geo.. 5-00 
Bemley) D. 33). te 5-00 
Onerie, Fotos yh gt, Pb II.00 
Campbell, Dr. G. W....... 25.00 
Crathern & Caverhill....... 25.00 
Cochrane, Cassils & Co... .. IO.00 
Cantlie, Ewan & Co........ 10.00 
Crm Ts f5544 ons 10.00 
Crombie,’ Ay -Mii.45.., 22% 5-00 
Coulson, R. B. & Co....... 5.00 
Capiora, “FW resseciys: 5.00 
mits, Chae eG tt 5.00 
Cassils, Stimson & Co...... 5.00 
Ciistving, Chast 11:;', 3.70%: 5.00 
Corse We Batecsgue 1M: 5.00 
Corsan) 72 tages Oe 45. 2.00 
Commer: Witiwiiaes .% « 2.00 
Campbell, Kenneth & Co... 10.00 
COM Pia TE 2 As «4 BSP 5.00 
Cooper, Fairman & Co..... 10.00 
Be he ee 5.00 
CORRE lx omnes 45 ¢ : OF, 2.00 
Coristine, James. .......... 10.00 
CATON FOURE SEP tt 6.72: 4.00 
Clephorater By os 5-00 
JOS ee ee end ft a 5.00 
COWEN Pao: POS: gee 2.00 
Court, Jats (207 22 TOS, 09 25.00 
Conta, VS bie ne 2.00 
Conmmige, Al os 8s 8 5.00 
ee ees tt es 20.00 
Clendinneng, W........... 10.00 


CN Te SUE iosa shoe wi oe 
CLI Ea OY Wis Kika We bien 60 
is ae. Sr ore 
Crawiord, Jone oi. csscn es. 
AC aD ae ar ye 
Dougall) J. 8 Co. ons pa eye) 
DiGnsnee OW Bi iaidy< viva 
RI TUE bebo his hain ia 
Douglass & McNiece....... 
Dawson, DG beds.. Ls 
Dun, Wiman & Co......5. 
es i 2 ee ea 
Dunversq, John........-..: 


Duncan,” Toh. os. 6. phe ods 
Dirmmond, G. Acs nigciae on 
Darling, W. & Co.......+5 
Dangerfield, W..........+. 
Davidson, T..& Gir..ts- 4. 


Date, John.........-eeeee- 
Drysdale, Wm... 22% «4 e+ 
Esplin, G. & J... ues vee os 
Elliot, James ... 0. .« ce ees 
Fegan TOS. «5's greys ale 4 2'ss te 
Eveleigh, J......-0.ssee0s 
Ewan, Wm. & Son........ 
TOSI. WN aks soe OF Ahem 


Ewing. S. H. & A. 5....-- 
evade, A Bicies ews kanes i 
PROG sb so oh he Spm ee 
Pate ACD RB ceo bianiess & 40.9 ete 
Fudger, —.....--seecerees 
Fux, 2.7 
Fraser, Thomas....... rN 


Sseeuet ee eanveervrese 


Grafftey, W. R........-+-- 
Greene, To. Bono. wees eves os 
Greenshields, Son & Co.... 
Gnaedinger, Son & Co.l..... 
Goodyear Rubber Co..... 

Grindley, R. R.........--- 
Glover & Brais.....5... + »% 
Gibbs, W. H. & Co........ 


36 
s.00 Gould, Ira & Son......... : 
3.00 Greene, G. A.... « iss hae 
25.00 “Galt BOS 00s aN caeewwe 
90,00" “Gatiiveyy Dita wis ce nanees 
Soe:  Arraeies D) os nse eine 
5pe0") Crrosse t W J. .). J... penrer ou 
8.00, (Grafton, Tin. 5... ese oi 
C0 | SEeOUe, NSEO). ep a ays wis 
5/00 Hodgson, A. &1CO. .J mands 
5.00 Hua, Richardson & Co...... 
20.00 Hughes & Stephenson...... 
S00. BE Ce ais 6h Mb eee bale e Kee 
ee so. ay «a rh oe 
5.00 Henderson, Robt.......... 
10:00; Hendersop, [.' Ts). .'. woli's 
to.oot ELendersond, 7 . ook sso. eee 
Soy holed, Re. ese Pe ees 
tooo Theney, Fo Bhi nse pes 2 eee 
5.00) Haswell, H. & Co... s.505.. 
5.00 Hodgson. Sumner & Co.... 
5,00, Howard, Dr.. R..P........ 
tt,00) Hannah, J. W....00 36 33h 
taoos Fially: Boss se ae eee 
50> Fdall, Mis isc 2 <> hee 'seeh +s 
5.00); Hunsicker, J. B.< éss9.4s)41- 
5.00, Hutton, James... 2.6.5 si 
ee a Oe. Sears 8 a 
2.50 Johnson, James & Co...... 
Boo?) Jocelgn, NY... sss cee se othe 
6.007 Ingram, W. J... sss. sep <3 
25.00 Jacques, G. E. & Co....... 
10.00. Jones, J. H. & Co... wan eehe 
ie ee Ed eR 
BOG L¥e@iatdy Ry. ce vain no a ea 
3.00 Jackson Bros io... ee se. ayy 
500°; Famieson, R. Cis . 06000 ss 
Pere am | ae Se cere ee 
5.00, Johnson, J. L...«......-- 44, 
a0.o0-, dem. Ropt. isis 0h o see 
4.00 Johnson. Russell & Co...... 
30.00, Kelley, Dr... 6). ++ +s dans 
25.00 King, Warden ............ 
10.00 Kirk,,Lockerby & Co...... 
5.00 Kennedy, John..........-- 
5.00 Kay, Geo..........0-2-- 
Io.oo Kingman, A..............- 
5.00 Kinloch, W. G.......--+-. 


Learmont, J.B... 50. 2.00., 
Livingstone, John.......... 
Linton, James & Co........ 
WOME Mes ek ena edu ee 
Larmonth & Son........... 
a > ae re 
Leeming, T. & Co ried . 


Lightbound. G............ 


Murphy, John & Co........ 
Masterman, | Wo.6 05. oo yee 
Boner, J. Bs. irises 
Miller, Robt. Son & Co... 

Meldrum, James, Jr........ 
Moseley, BE. Vo. ors kh ck. 
Miller, — 


oe 2'2 8 0 6. 9 26 @ oft tale be 


Mey G. Wego ae 
Mathewson, J. A......53.) 
Miller Bros. & Co..... sees 
Millow, AlGK 5 ib cnc ca 8 
Munderloh, W. H......... 
PT EE Nene alin 


TORIC Reg ieee gah va RES cee 
ee ae. ee: Pe eT LO 
Major Gibbs 3. uc seals 
WOES, Ge Rs ass eaneaY:, 
Lt Ae Re 7 
Motge, Bo Ranken s th. 
DER e) TORR, 5 dak cs se 
Morton, Phillips & Bulmer. . 
McLachlan Bros. & Co...... 
FARGO: SO a oie sie se x 9 3 
McLean, Captain... ...,.... 
McLennan, Hugh.......... 
McLean, Shaw & Co....,.. 
McLaren, W. & Co........ 
McLaren, J. C 
McIndoe & Vaughan 
McLeod & Shodden......., 


eeeereeerervnacve 


ot 2 se eS 


37 


MeGibbon, Alex... 5. is 
MoMerrow,. ‘5.605065 900) 
McDunnough, W........., 
MacKay Bros. sissies eau 
McDougall, Logie & Co.... 
MacKedie, J. W. & Co..... 
McDonald, W. Rasawvens?, 4 


McLaren, W: D.... 04:6. 
MeKeown, Ri... uciroh 4 
Nelson, H. A. & Son 
Nersiey, D. Ro. ocey see 
Sea Be Too es ae 
RRs Ii ol OO at 


“© 6 &£€ 


Phelps, GF once Ware 
Packard, L.. H. & Co... wr 
Pillow, Hersey & Co....... 
Palmer, ],.& Sons. 3m: 
Powers, W..B oo oe 
reer, Ts Sic 
Parks, J. G 


Porteous, Job) ye65,... set 
Pash, Walters oc. | een hic 


Phulipe Go Biss esc es 
Prowse, G. R...... beige 
Porter & Savage........... 
RGSS, MM os eda koe es 
Richards, Joseph 
POM TaN es ks ey 


Rankin, Beattie & Co...... 
PTT, ey dee TS) Sg eb PS 
| Sd en | Sa te ee 


Ross, James ...... 65/6 
Heed, GoW oc csi 258 
Robertsons, Linton & Co... 


Reddick, Droit 2 Pipe AS 
ROR Wi RAS ks © 
Riddell & Stevenson........ 
Robertson, J.......--+--+:- 
POGNOY Ar hee i riots 
Ramsay, R. E.....-....++: 
Ralston, P. & Son.... ff 
Rissell, Hs de J Fos. ea 
Se, Fish ebes ciecerk aes. 
Strahger, Ac diisscieeis's c' 
Stevens—.... 260. . cece eee 
Smithers, FoeO fees 
Smith, J. Murray. .....:-.- 
Sutherland, Lindsay & Co.. 
Shaw Bros. & Cassils....... 
Seath, Alexander.......... 
oo ps OU Pe Or es aa 
Sharpe, J. W....---..--56 
Semmbeis, Wo sts Poe es 
Shae, We Baw ied Oe, 
Smith, Gi Fy Core iets 
Smardon, Richard.......... 
Slaa, Woe wicicwser eres ede. 
Snowdon, C. C. & Co...... 
Shearer, J. S. & Co......--. 
Stevenson, C. J.......05-5- 
Sterling, John........-.--- 
Stephen, G. & Co......-.-- 
Strong, Samuel........---- 
Strong, Mrs......----+++5: 
Strong, Sydney......---+-- 
Smardon, W. F.......-..- 


38 


Stephens, G25 ooo ag hes ek 5.00 
Sims As. 346 x 45.0 CO OH 5.00 
Ce a eee STA FIO, 2.00 
SOOT Wee ve so tet otn hs 2.00 
Stevenson, J. Aw... ss 2.00 
Spicer, Wi]. .cvivewsvs Us, 5-00 
Savage, A. & Hon.........: 20.00 
SORES, Ai n20 sce Ree 5.00 
Shorey, Ff. d& Cosss [i554 4. 5.00 
Tees, Costigan & Wilson.... | 25.00 
Tasker, J. W. (Live Mem- 
ot ee ee i aa 100,00 
Tees; Williams: :::.. 65.0%. 10.00 
Thowias, Jamesi. 08 oe. T,00 
OTR BrOSi 534s ee. 3.00 
Teevel, FW. 8 Gow ones + 5.00 
Thotipson, fob... 9.5.20. 10.00 
Tompkins, Mark H:....... 5.00 
Torrance, D. & Co...) 2%. 25.00 
Teibull, Jonns soe. ssisey- 5.00 
THON) eo Vs 10.00 
Oy): Wsietecte i006 ek 2.00 
Taylor, John:& Co.-...6.... 10.00 
Thomas; Richard: 6.00040. 10.00 
Weatdon J. CreicceZ tt 10.00 
Whitley Bros: .. 2.603). 25.0% 5.00 
Wetton, Thi. es recs 5.00 
Watson, R. Gi... 5.00 
WHEE, Bs inadeccterec ted 2.00 
A Ae rr 2.00 
Warrington; -H...--. 0 5.00 
Walker, Jas. & Co......... 5.00 
Wilson, Walter & Co...... 15.00 
Whitham,, James; .s:. 0 6% 5.00 
Walker, J. W iw. .caa suede. 5.00 
Vutle) W..& Div icwwoeest oo 25.00 


