MONTREAL 


YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION 


bidet naeanerasct samc arcat a am Males (0) eis 


TWENTY-NINTH 


ANNUAL REPORT 


SUBMITTED 


TUESDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 30TH, 1880. 


CMHontreal: 


D. Bentley & Co., Book & Job Printers, 364 Notre Dame Street. 


1881. 
| 


i 
- 
; 
; 
f 
e243) 
Pg 
2) 
it 
| “ 
zi $ s 
i 
2% y 
~ 
Ay, ~ 
2 
. 
s 
pow 
~~ 


, 
‘ 
: ote | 
Sr 
ard 
| 
ee | | 
4 ; 
4 
* 
4 
4 
* s 
% 
. 
\ 
a 
i * 
t 
4 


p> oma 


hae 


List of Officers and Committee for 1881. 


resident. 


MR. GEORGE HAGUE. 


Bice-Presidents. 
T. JAMES CLAXTON. 


J. M. SMITH. 


Treasurer. 


GEO. YOUNG. 
R. H. BUCHANAN. 


J. S. McLACHLAN. 


Secretary. 


DAG BUDGE, 


Assistant-Secretarp. 


R. THOMAS 
DAVID MORRICE. 


W. J. ORR. 
Committee. 
JOHN MURPHY. 
D. W. ROSS. 
D. BENTLEY. 


R. HENDERSON. 
WALTER PAUL. 
R. H. HOLLAND. 
A. KINGMAN. 
WARDEN KING. 
H. L. PUTNAM. 
A. A. AYER. 

C. CUSHING. 
GEO. LAMB. 

L. H. PACKARD. 
GEO. BISHOP. 

G. E. JAQUES, Jr. 


CHAS. MORTON. 
Dt TEES. 

W. B. DAWSON. 
Dr. O. C. EDWARDS. 
J. B. PICKEN, 

H. J. MUDGE. 

Dr. F. W. KELLY. 
W. TEES. 

A. M. CROMBIE. 
R. A. BECKET. 
W. G. BROWN. 

A. P. WILLIS. 

S. F. MASSETT. 


Hoard of Mirectors. 


T. JAMES CLAXTON. 
E. V. MOSELEY. 


CHARLES ALEXANDER. 


HENRY LYMAN. 
DR. BAZIN. 

J. TORRANCE. 
GEO. YOUNG. 


W. REID. 


D. MORRICE., 

Ls PATON, 

N. S. WHITNEY. 
THOS. CRAIG. 
R. IRWIN. 

H. A. NELSON. 
EK. K. GREENE, 


STANDING COMMITTEES, 1880-'81. 


Hinance. 
L. EL PACKARD, |. eet es . Chaternan. 
J. S. McLachlan. D. Bentley. A. A. Ayer. Geo. Bishop. 
Richard Thomas. T. J. Claxton. D. Morrice. Dr. Bazin. 
J. B. Picken. W. Paul. W. G. Brown. 


Bectures, Classes and Meetings. 


T. James CLAXTON; . Chairman. 


R. H. Holland. Dr. Kelley. H. J. Mudge. . A. M. Crombie. 
D. W. Ross. Dr. O. C. Edwards. . W. B. Dawson. R. A. Becket. 
John Murphy. Henry Morton. John Louson. 
Stission. 
R. HENDERSON, . + . Chairman. 
John Murphy. Geo. Lamb. R. H. Buchanan. P. Sinclair. 
S. F. Massett. Geo. Young. A. Kingman. W...4. torr. 
. Louson. Capt. McRobie, 


Rooms and Library. 


Dr. O. C. Epwarps, . . Chairman. 


G. E. Jaques. J. Murray Smith. Dr. Kelley. W. G. Brown. 
SAembership. 
W. Paut, . . Chairman. 
W. Tees. A. P, Willis. A. D. Lanskail. G. S. Kimber. 
R. H. Buchanan. A. F. Reid. William King. Andrew Holliday. 
C. Cushing. 
deception. 
J: \B.. PIcKEN, | 6) 'Gs)) ww Catv. 
Wm. Henderson. A. P. Willis. G. Wallace. W. E. Scott. 
Alf. Griffith. J. Dumaresgq. T. M, Henderson. A. N. Webster. 
Enbitation. 
S. F. MASSETT, . . . Chatrman. \ 
Geo. Lamb. A. D. Lanskail. Alf. Griffith. Jos. Locke. 
My. SOM. James Rea. John Ohling. A. F. Reid. 
Geo. Williams. 
Visitation. 
D. W. Ross, . Chairman. 
George Young. John Louson. S. F. Massett. W. B. Dawson. 


Hoarding House. 
W. j. Orr, D. A. Budge. 
Commercial Travellers. 


CHARLES MorTON, . . Chairman. 


R.-H. Holland. R. Henderson. J. H. Carnegie. Geo. Young. 
W. P. Rodger. 


ANNUAL REPORT. 


IN presenting a statement’of the Secretary’s work in his 
_official relation to the Association during the past year, it must be 
the merest outline of a few of the facts which it is possible to 
summarize in connection with the varied git general duties 
which pertain to that office. 


And before doing so your Secretary would desire to thank 
God for the many blessings which have been personally received, 
and for the privilege of continuing actively in connection with 
this service for Christ. 


The daily routine work continues just as large as it possible 
for the Secretary and Assistant to overtake, and is represented in 
part by the following statement :— 


984 Letters received on Association business. 
1896 ‘* written Bi Hy 
384 Applications for situations have been registered. 
125 Situations have been secured. 
252 Young men directed to suitable boarding houses. 
261 Signatures to the Temperance Pledge. 
120 Young men have made voluntary enquiry for spiritual 
counsel (not in connection with meetings). 
84 Letters of introduction have been granted to young 
men going to Associations in other cities. 
60 Mission services and pulpits have been supplied by 
Members (apart from our regular meetings). 


These figures represent at least over 3,000 young men whom 
the Association have aided in some form during the past year, and 
these not directly in connection with any of the religious services. 


All work in connection with the Association should lead the ~ 
members either directly or indirectly to individual effort in com- 
mending the Christian life to young men ; and through these va- 
ried opportunities for service, every Christian young man, whatever 
his talents, may at once find a place to confess Christ, and to be- 


ee 
Bits Do ae 


6 


come a partaker of the joy of Christian service. This is of 
special importance at the outset of the Christian life. There are 
many, however, who make a fair start and go on well for a time, 
but when the trial of their faith comes they grow silent, and fre- 
‘quently drop out. This shows that the staying power is also 
needed, which is furnished by a knowledge of the Word of God. 
To meet this need, Bible study is made a most important feature 
in our Association, and four classes are held weekly with good 
attendance and interest. 


The publication of the ‘“‘ Monthly Record” was commenced 
in August last, and is found to be an invaluable aid, not only in 
the announcement of meetings, but also in securing more active 
sympathy and co-operation on the part of members ; 2,000 copies 
are printed monthly and are mailed to every member and sub- 
scriber. For the necessary funds to continue this publication the 
thanks of the Association are due to one of our members. 


The Association has suffered great loss during the year in 
the removal from the city of a large number of members, some of 
whom have been for many years prominent amongst its most ac- 
tive spiritual workers. The name of Mr. ALFRED SANDHAM is 
‘intimately connected with our past history, and especially with 
the erection and completion of the present building. During ten 
years he occupied the position of General Secretary, at a most 
trying and critical period of our history. After his resignation he 
continued a member of the General Committee and a most 
zealous worker. In July last he accepted the position of General 
Secretary of the Toronto Young Men’s Christian Association, 
and has been most successful in organizing. and directing their 
work. ‘The prayers and best wishes of his fellow-workers here 
have accompanied him. 


Mr. W. L. FRASER, for seventeen years a ‘member and 
worker, has removed to New York. He also served many years 
on the Committee, and specially as a leader in Bible Class work. 


Mr. HENRY SANDHAM, for many years a member of the 
General Committee and a most faithful worker in anything that 
‘he undertook, has removed to Boston. The Association is thus 


deprived of the fellowship and valuable co-operation of these 


much esteemed brethren. 


7 


_ We have been favored by visitation from four members of 
the International Committee, New York—Mr. R. C. Morsz, 
Secretary ; Mr. G. A. Hatt, State Secretary, New York ; Mr. E. 
C. WATKINS, Secretary Commercial Travellers’ work ; and L. D. 
WISHARD, Secretary College work. 


One of the zeeds at present is room for the accommodation 
of educational classes. In other Associations these classes have 
proven a most effective means in increasing the membership 
amongst the commercial class of young men, by placing within 
their reach, at moderate rates, the privileges of an increased edu- 
cation, and at the same time affording them Christian surroundings. 


The benevolent work has been carried on quietly, and 
wherever a case was found to be deserving, the needed help was 
granted. Many young men have thus received temporal aid. In 
great measure the funds necessary have been supplied through 
the contribution of individual members. The Secretary will be 
glad to receive contributions towards this fund. 


The results of the work in the conversion of souls and the 
building up of Christians, we cannot and do not attempt to estimate. 
Whether in sowing the seed or in reaping what others have sown, | 
the workers have simply been used as instruments by Him in the 
accomplishment of His blessed will, and the extension of His 
Kingdom. To Him be all the praise. | 


D. A. BUDGE, 


Secretary, 


FINANCE COMMITTEE. 


It is with feelings of gratitude that your Committee are en-- 
abled to present the following favorable report, for since the or- 
ganization of our Association, its financial condition has not 
been so satisfactory as it is to-day, and we believe that in the near 
future a day of thanksgiving may be set apart in which to rejoice 
and thank Gop that we owe no man. ‘Three years ago we were 
burdened with a debt. of some $20,000 on the building, and 


8 


nearly $3,000 as a deficit on our current expenses. The general 
depression of trade and the unsettled state of business at that 
time seemed anything but a fit Season in which to thik, much 
less attempt, to relieve ourselves of this burden. Nevertheless, a 
scheme was proposed by our Treasurer, Mr. J. S. McLachlan, in 
which he agreed to raise $10,000 among the merchants, if the 
young men would raise an equal amount amongst themselves. 
This proposition was at once accepted and acted upon; $100 
subscriptions were secured, divided into three notes of equal 
amount and extending over a period of three years. Owing to 
the continued depression in business, the death of some of the 
subscribers and removal from the city of others, the results were 
not fully realized, and at our last annual meeting we had to report 
our present indebtedness as $5,622.19; but when we consider 
that, in addition to raising some $17,000 towards the reduction 
of the building debt, we have also, during the last three years, 
raised nearly $6,000 per annum for interest and current expenses, 
making in .all some $35,000, we are ourselves amazed at the 
success which has attended our efforts, and the only satisfactory 
explanation we can give of such financial prosperity in days of 
commercial depression is that it is the Lord’s work ; we desire 
therefore, that a// praise should be ascribed to Him. 


Your Committee, satisfied that the amount of spiritual and 
benevolent work of the Association would be greatly increased by 
the removal of the balance of this debt, would suggest to its 
friends the advisability of coming to our aid and paying off the 
small deficit without delay. The Association will then require 
about $3,000 a year-in excess of its rental revenue to carry on 
the work. How valuable that work is and how greatly Gop has 
blessed it will be seen by reference to the reports of the other 
Committees. 


In conclusion, we beg to thank the merchants and subscrib- 
ers generally for their kind and generous response to the appeal 
of our collectors, without whose aid it would be impossible to 
carry on the work of the Association, which we know has proved 
a blessing to many young men of the city. 


L. H. PACKARD, 


Chairman. 


9 


MISSION COMMITTEE. 


Hospital Work.—A Gospel meeting is held every Sunday 
morning at 10 o’clock. A good average attendance of convales- 
cent patients have been maintained. The Chairman suggests the 
necessity of good singing, and would be glad of the assistance of 
some lady friends. A service of song is about to be started 
fifteen minutes before the hour of meeting. Bedside visitation 
on Sunday afternoons is being carried on by members, and many 
interesting cases are met with. 


Jail Work.—Upon the express invitation of the Rev. Mr. 
Borthwick, the Chaplain, Sunday services were held in the jail 
for nearly six months of the past year, three workers taking part 
weekly ; attendance, 30 to 50. Much interest was manifested, 
and we have every reason to know blessing resulted, as the fol- 
lowing instances clearly go to prove: 


A young Englishman, who, through evil companions, fell in- 
to sin and was compelled to serve a term of six months’ im- 
prisonment. By means of these Sunday services he became 
known to the members, and on his release sought the proffered 
help of the Association. He professed repentance, which has 
since proved to be sincere, and was helped in procuring a situa- 
tion at some distance from the city, which he still retains to the 
entire satisfaction of his employer, and is now a Sunday School 
teacher. | 


A young man, who served a lengthened term in the peni- 
tentiary and afterward a short time in jail, became acquainted 
with the members at these Sunday services and, upon his release, 
sought the aid of the Association. He professed deep repent- 
ance and was sent to Toronto, where he secured employment 
through Christian friends. His profession seemed to be real, as 
will be seen from the fact that he not only returned the amount 
expended in aiding him, but sent a donation to the funds of the 
Association out of his first earnings. He is now living with his 
brother in California, and when last heard from was evidently en- 
joying the Christian life and doing well in business. 


Another instance might be given of a lad who was sent to a 
B 


i a ——————— Ee 


10 


western city and introduced to the Association there, through 


whom he secured employment, and has since been doing well, 


and if not a Christian is at least placing himself in the way of 
blessing. 


It is much to be regretted, therefore. that the Chaplain has 
peremptorily forbidden the continuation of these services. It re- 
mains to be seen whether the Christian public will quietly submit 
to the dictation of one man, and allow Montreal to be the only 
city in Canada or the United States where this avenue of useful- 
ness is closed to young men ; and let it be noted that the Young 
Men’s Christian Association has peculiar facilities for taking up 
these men after their discharge, giving them a helping hand to 
better and holier things than in their dark past. 


Sailor Work.—Tract distribution amongst the seamen in 
port was continued for twenty Sundays. An average attendance 
of fifteen workers met in the Sailors’ Institute at 8 o’clock, a.m., 
and after prayer visited every ship in the harbor. ‘Tracts and re- 
ligious papers to the amount of 140,000 pages and in ten different 
languages have been distributed. The thanks of the workers are 
due to Mr. John Ritchie, the Manager of the Institute, for his 
many kind attentions. The work amongst the French bargemen 
is worthy of special notice, owing to its extent and the cordial 
receptions met with. 


Devotional meetings were held in the Institute four evenings 
in the week, under the direction of Mr. John Ritchie, two of 
which were continued throughout by members, the other two by 
workers at the Institute—average attendance at each meeting 
from 16 to 20. These services have been greatly blessed, not 
only to Christian sailors, but also in the conversion of others. 


Cottage Meetings.—These have not been as successful 
as in former years. One was held for a short time at 581 Ontario 
street—average attendance, 15. 


Firemen’s Mission.—This work commenced about five 
yeart ago, has not been without fruit. Two prominent members 
of the Brigade are now active workers, and especially in this 
branch. They take part in the distribution of tracts and religious 
papers at the different stations every Sunday morning. Over 


11 


3,500 tracts, religious papers and magazines have been placed in 
the hands of the men. 


“In the morning sow thy seed, and in the evening withhold 
not thine hand : for thou knowest not whether shall prosper either 
this or that, or whether they both shall be alike good.”—Eccles. 
Kr, '0- 


THOS. ROBERTSON, 
Chairman. 


POINT ST. CHARLES. 


Railway Men’s Meetings.—A special effort has recently 
been made to establish Association work at Point St. Charles, a 
labor centre that has long engaged the attention of the Mission 
Committee as a promising field for the spread of the Gospel by 
personal testimony. Some twelve hundred men are employed 
in the Grand Trunk shops located there, and of this number a 
considerable proportion does not, and seemingly will not, avail of 
the opportunities for spiritual guidance and instruction offered by 
the several churches in the neighborhood. 


In view of these facts, Evangelistic meetings were begun 
early in October last in the School House belonging to St. Mat- 
thew’s Church, a place of meeting kindly placed at the service of 
the Association by the Church authorities, who also furnished 
light and fuel at their own expense. The Church further, in or- 
der to give every encouragement to the movement, suspended its 
Wednesday evening prayer meeting in the expectation that the 
regular attendants would instead form part of the Evangelistic 
meetings. Whether or not this action, coupled with the place of 
meeting, served to give the movement a denominational charac- 
ter in the eyes of the community cannot be said, but for some 
weeks the attendance was composed mostly of members of St. 
Matthew’s Church ; and the numbers, which had at first been 
large, fell (from an enforced change of meeting night from Friday 
to Thursday) to less than half the previous average, the outside 
representation ceasing almost entirely. 


eee Se. re i ~~ 


12 


At this point, the work having apparently failed to reach the 
class for which it was designed, and the Church preferring a re- 
quest for the resumption of its regular service, the meetings were 
about to be abandoned, when the character of the attendance 
suddenly changed. Railroad men appeared in goodly numbers, 
and the church members ceased to come. Under the circum- 
stances, the offer of the use of the hall being generously extended 
indefinitely, the services have been continued and have assumed a 
most encouraging phase both as to the number and character of 
the attendance. 


In connection with this work three cottage meetings have 
been established and maintained now for eight weeks, two of 
which give not unpromising indications of interest, although the 
attendance has been small. These meetings seem to supply a 
real need, and with their continuance may reasonably be expect- 
ed to extend in their influence and bear fruit; but they have 
failed thus far, as was the case with the evangelistic meetings for 
-a time, to induce the presence of railroad men in any number. 
This may in part be accounted for by the fact that the Grand 
Trunk shops have been under great pressure throughout the sea- 
son, many of the hands doing night-work ; but withal it may be 
doubted if the means here named and already employed are cal- 
culated to attract, retain and develop interest in spiritual matters 
amongst the railroad men. 


A further effort to secure the presentation of the Gospel to 
non-church-going railroad employees is now on the point of trial 
and, so far as attendance is concerned, may be said to offer bet- 
ter promise of success than either the cottage or the evangelistic 
meetings could be expected todo. ‘The Grand Trunk Company, 
in compliance with a petition signed by 75 of the employees, has 
consented to the use of their large hall known as the ‘“ Mess 
Room,” and in which the men living at a distance from the shops 
take dinner daily, for the purpose of a Sunday afternoon service 
of song, prayer and Bible study to be conducted by members of 
the Association. ‘This privilege has been granted within but the 
past few days—the first meeting of the kind is announced tor 
‘Sunday, the 12th of December. 


Amongst other methods adopted for bringing spiritual mat- 


_ aS 


13 


ters to the notice of the men through personal testimony, printed 
postal cards addressed to the Association, having a blank form on 
the reverse side to be filled in with the name and address of any 
employee who might be ill or injured, have been distributed 
amongst the foremen, conductors and others, to be used as occa- 
sion shall arise. Three of these cards requesting calls have been 
received back, and these calls have resulted in each instance in 
awakening an outspoken interest in spiritual affairs. ‘They have 
also opened the way to more extended work of like character. 
The importance of establishing at Point St. Charles the work 
of personal testimony for Christ speaks for itself in the fact that 
twelve hundred men, largely non-attendants at church, are there 
met together in daily intercourse. With such a field at hand 
surely there is encouragement to spare no effort while yet any 
promising means of presenting the Gospel remains untried. 


LECTURES, CLASSES AND MEETINGS. 


The following is a list of the Meetings held during the year, 
with average and total attendance : 


"Hee naeeendonce 2 ee 
Noon Prayer Meeting, - 312 22 6880 
Saturday Evening Young Men’s 
pevseisit Meeting, } ‘ai 5 3380 
Sunday Morning Bible Class, 52 15 780 
Sunday Afternoon Bible Class, 52 42 2238 
Tuesday Evening Bible Class 52 25 1300 
Gospel Temperance Meeting, 52 45 2340 
Boys’ Meeting, - - - 52 23 1196 
Sunday Evening Meeting, - 52 306 16545 
Commercial Travellers’ Meeting, 2 6 12 
Enquirers at above Meetings, Te: - 176 


Tuesday Evening Bible Class, formerly conducted by 
Mr. W. L. Fraser, is now under the leadership of Prof. Fenwick. 
The classes for Bible study are amongst the most important 


Ps 


14 


features in connection with our work, and the appreciation of the 
advantages of this one on the part of our members is best 
evidenced by the deep interest and constantly augmenting attend- 
ance. 


Saturday Afternoon Review of Sunday School Lesson 
was continued under the leadership of several of our city Ministers 
until well on in the summer months, and was resumed on the 
2oth November, with Dr. Dawson as leader, whom the Committee 
are pleased to announce will lead it throughout the winter. 


The Boys’ Meeting.—The following report of the Chair- 
man of that Meeting speaks for itself ; 


I. We have found that gathering boys off the streets into 
our Meeting does not work well, as it drives the more respectable 
boys away, and so have discontinued doing so, but always give 
the former a cordial welcome when they come. 


I]. The leaders and subjects of our Meeting are previously 
arranged, so that all come prepared to take part, if it is only to 
read a passage of Scripture. 


III. We have endeavoured, and with some success, to get 
the Christian boys to become responsible for four or five others, 
and in this way, not only keep up our attendance, but give an 
opportunity to the youngest of doing something for the Lord 
Jesus Christ. 


IV. We have to thank God for the blessings that many of 
the boys received through Mr. Hammond’s labors, of which we 
have unmistakable proofs; also for permitting us to see some 
fruits of our own labors, both in the conversion and building up 
of boys who attend our meetings. 


V. We had our attendance largely increased before the 
summer holidays by sending notices to nearly all the boys who 
professed to receive blessing at Mr. Hammond’s Meetings, and are 
about to do so again, and trust it may have even a greater result 
than before. 


VI. We would be very glad if some arrangement could be 
made with the Superintendents of the Sunday Schools of the 
city who are favorably disposed towards our work, to have the 


15 


‘Boys’ Meeting” in connection with our Association announced 
regularly, so that many might attend who are at present unaware 
that such a Meeting is held. 


The other Meetings have gone on without any material 
change, and do not require further comment. 


Of the extra meetings, the New Year’s “ Reception” in the 
afternoon, and the open Social in the evening, were, thanks to the 
ladies and other friends of the Association, a successful in- 
novation. 


Prof.. Richards’ course of scientific lectures in February 
were interesting and instructive, and were well attended. 


Rev. Hugh Johnston gave a lecture on the Yosemite Valley, 
splendidly illustrated by Mr. Sanders, which was deservedly 
much appreciated. 


: A series of special services during the Exhibition season, 
though not largely attended, were nevertheless a blessing to many 
who bore testimony to good received. 


A reception to members of the Locomotive Engineers, while 
here in convention, was a time of much social and spiritual profit 
and it was hoped thereby to give an impetus to Railway work in 

our city. 


A special feature of the year and one long to be remembered, 

was the visit of that honored servant of God, the Rev. Dr. 

Muller, of Bristol, England, upon the invitation of our Associa- 

tion, whose practical and inspiring addresses given in several of 

our city churches, as well as in our own rooms, tended so greatly 
to strengthen the faith of Gop’s people. 


R. Hy. HOLLAND, 


Chairman. 


COMMERCIAL TRAVELLERS. 


The Commercial Travellers’ Committee reports that they 
have sought to enlist the interest of Christian commercial men in 


16 


the work of this Association, and also of Associations along their 
line of travel, and find this branch of the work is beset with 
many difficulties. 


Mr. E. W. Watkins, the representative of the International 
Committee in this department, visited the City and held four 
meetings in connection with this work, giving valuable assistance 
and many practical suggestions. A Sunday afternoon meeting 
was commenced, but this has met with but little success thus far, 
on account of those taking an active part being so frequently 
absent from the city. 


Cards of invitation, with special reference to this work, are 
distributed every Sunday morning to the guests in the principal 
hotels, being delivered personally in their rooms by members. 


We have introduced and are using to some extent the uni- 
form ticket. We are preparing handsome cards of invitation to 
be hung in the sample rooms of hotels, so that every traveller 
can see them. . 


Testimony has been received from several as to the benefits 
of the work, and we trust that better organization will lead to 
greater results. 


CHARLES MORTON, 


Chairman. 


MEMBERSHIP COMMITTEE. 


This Committee desires to report that with the assistance of 
the Asst.-Secretary the membership list has been entirely revised, 
so that the numbers presented in this report give, as nearly as_ 
possible, the correct number on the roll. 


We have also much pleasure in stating that, owing to the 
efforts of the Finance Committee, ten new life members have 
been obtained at $100 each, thus adding $1,000 to the general 
funds of the Association. | 


17 


During the year 108 new members have been elected, mak- 
ing in all now 759, divided as follows :— 


Pee Pao ok EN tee ia oon RIS Oia ev acted 453 
BSBOCtAtel., so 55 SN sm aap aren bie Wks wepeiwh 234 
LPR Y eke ASR ke Vin, 5 GARONA, o: 5 alse aia ialhe tend NR Sa: re 26 
RROD OTAIG Ss aia seme gon ook wedeal a ie ine es 46 

pe Dar): Ey ar ORE ae 759 


R. H. BUCHANAN, 


Chairman. 


ROOMS AND LIBRARY COMMITTEE. 


Your Committee beg to report that the magazines and papers 
as per annexed list have been received with regularity during the 
year. 


The Reading Room has been very largely used by young 
men, the average number of visitors daily being about 250, not 
including attendance at the meetings. 


A great boon has been supplied to the members in the alter- 
ations in the Library which has been provided through the kind- 
ness of the President and Mr. Robert Anderson, to whom the 
thanks of the Association are especially due. A Members’ Parlor 
has thus been provided, which was a pressing need and receives 
constant use. Our Library is still in need of some friend who 
will donate us 500 volumes. 


The annual sale of magazines took place on December 29th 
and the amount realized was $41.33. 


G. E, JAQUES, 


Chairnan. 


18 


PAPERS AND MAGAZINES ON FYLE IN THE 


READING-ROOM. 
DAILIES. 
Montreal Gazette. Halitax Chronicle, 
4 Herald. Quebec Chronicle. 
Wt Witness. Ottawa Free Press. 
shi Star. ras, CAtifen., 


Yoronto Globe. 


New York Tribune. 


New York I] Progresso Italiano. 


WEEKLIES. 


ENGLISH. 


London Christian. 
‘* — Christian World. 
‘© ‘Word and Work. 
Alliance News. 
Illustrated News. 
Graphic. 


London Punch. 

rm Dimes. 
Saturday Review. 
Liverpool Mercury. 
Glasgow Herald. 
Edinburgh Scotsman. 


ee 


Belfast News. 


AMERICAN. 


Philadelphia Sunday School Times. 
New York Christian Union. 
a Witness. 

Evangelist. 
Scottish American Journal. 
Scientific American. 
Harper’s Weekly. 
Montreal Northern Messenger. 
Boston Congregationalist. 

*¢ Watchman. 
New York Sabbath Reading. 
Chicago Y. M. C. A. Watchman. 

‘* Advance. 
Toronto Canadian Independent. 

‘¢ Evangelical Churchman. 
Canadian Baptist. 
Guardian. 
Presbyterian. 
Bowmanville Observer. 
Halifax Wesleyan. 
Boston Journal (semi-weekly). 
Chicago Inter-Ocean ‘‘ 

*“* Reformed Episcopalian. 


6eé 


sc 


¢é 


St. Louis Democrat. 
St. Paul Pioneer Press. 
Winnipeg Times. 
London Advertiser. 
San Francisco Chronicle. 
Honolulu (Sandwich Isiands) Friend. 
Toronto Grip. 
Chatham Missionary Messenger. 
Stratford Beacon. 
Lindsay Post. 
St. Thomas Journal. 
Peterboro’ Review. 

Examiner. 
Brantford Courier. 
Simcoe British Canadian. 
Sherbrooke Gazette. 

- Examiner. 
Montreal Canadian Illustrated News. 

‘ge Canadian Spectator. 

Aylmer Times. 
Cowansville Observer. 
St. John’s News. 
Waterloo Advertiser. 


1Y 


MONTHLIES. 


ENGLISH. 
London Leisure Hour. London British Workman. 
“Sunday at Home. ‘* British Evangelist. 
‘¢ Sunday Magazine. ** ~ Illustrated Missionary News. 
“Sword and Trowel. ** English Mechanic. 
** Good Words. **  China’s Millions. 
‘¢ British Temperance Advocate. ** Contemporary Review. 
‘¢’ ‘Quiver. ‘* Boys’ Own Paper. 
*¢  Cassel’s Magazine. **  Clergyman’s Magazine. 
‘¢ Magazine of Art. ‘* Chambers’ Journal. 
AMERICAN. 
New York Gospel in all Lands. Princeton Review. 
4 Scribner’s. ; Once a Month. 
bs Harper’s. Pittsburg Watch Tower. 
a Atlantic. The Truth. 
American Missionary. Canadian Monthly. 
Philadelphia Westminster Teacher. |The Bystander. 
Boston Times of Refreshing. Montreal Presbyterian Record. 


RECEPTION COMMITTEE. 


The duties devolving on this Committee call for considera- 
ble self-sacrifice, and it is very difficult to get the right men for 
the work. It requires men who are gentlemanly in their bearing, 
sociable in their disposition, and able as well as willing to make 
themselves agreeable to the different classes of people who visit 
the rooms. 

During the year we have endeavored to have at least one 
member on duty every evening, but have at times failed—on 
such occasions the rooms have been left in charge of the 
Secretaries. 

It has ever been our aim to make strangers feel at home, 
give them any information that would be of use to them, and 
some of the members have endeavored to lead their thoughts 
and conversation on and about Christ. 

The average attendance during each evening has been about 
thirty. 

R. HENDERSON, 
Chairman. 


20) 
INVITATION COMMITTEE. 


This Committee has met regularly every Saturday evening at 
7.15 o’clock with an average attendance of seven. <A few min- 
utes are always spent in prayer before going on duty. Some of 
the workers have then taken their stand on the corners of the 
leading thoroughfares, and at the door of the Rooms, and dis- 
tributed invitations to the meetings. Others have, in like man- 
ner, visited the five leading hotels, the Windsor, St. Lawrence 
Hall, Ottawa, Albion and American. Something like 12,000 or 
14,000 slips have thus been placed in the hands of strangers 
during the year, and though thousands of them doubtless have 
been cast carelessly aside, the invitation to the meeting spurned, 
and the text of Scripture never looked at, we cannot but believe 
that very many of them have been silent messengers for good, 
and that perhaps the seed thus dropped into some hearts may yet 
spring up and bear fruit unto Life Eternal. 


It would be difficult to say how many have by this means 
been induced to attend the meetings, but certainly a large num- 
ber ; and often the hearts of those engaged in the work have been 
encouraged by hearing some stranger in the meeting give expres- 
sion to his thankfulness for having had an invitation placed in his 
hands. 


More workers are needed—earnest, consecrated young men 
—so that not only the hotels, but as far as possible the saloons 
also may be regularly and systematically visited. 


Who will volunteer ? 
GEO. LAMB, 


Chatrman. 


‘OSQI ‘IOQWIDAON YIOL “IVAULNOW 


JUSLIND 0} parajsueT syuSY JO junOULY 


-10} UL poytposd syuNoUe ssaT 
Lt OPSE ccccccs ttt  saSvsjOPY Uo 4sar9zUy 


CL 1Sb‘1g++ ‘xvak Suump Tey pure 


¢ 
SHNOfL ‘O 
SL0]1pN { me 
3 PYF \ ‘sso SAW 
“UIANSDIAT ‘NWITHOVDPNW 'S ‘f *JOoIIOD PUNO} puv pourwex7y] 
zg 6055S Ta Peal ae cesses uMOp yySno1q ourreg 
zi Ibvr‘org zi Ibi ‘org 
zg 606 5S eee ee ee ee as eseeressssuMop porlieo soured geet 
of £9. —_—__—— oie 
ce €1¢ wot Sees Pare ee ia ee ee s+ MOD | ie o 
-oy sosuodx7y juetm jo yno pred ee 
= nt S uOpV "\qGOYy a jo yunowy | = ek 
redes dict ieee . eee ee er ee eS "OSSI sr Fe ae 
JIqUIQII(T_-O} UOSIOY} PaMOT[® S219} ee ee 
-ul puv yqoq Surpjmg jo uononper | i 
spieMo} Ivo sty] poasteooi sjuNouUry —o 
lo oo1'5¢ —————— | z6 ooo. = = -————— 
g9 1S€ = * * *tanpse yuaU9}¥}G JoOUL GL iSbtr ccc setts sss yunosoy sasuadxq 
| 
| 


sdI0]G Wo poalooar sjudy Ag 65 OF1 SE eee es "++ Juoulo}e}S ysvq od onp sourreg oF 
‘S Lda “SLNAUNAVd 
Ip 099T ‘YJOE haQueanopy Suseu 4vaX ‘LNNOOOY GNOY ONIATING ‘1gh 


‘NOLLVIOOSSV NVLLSINHO S.NHW ONQOA TVHaLNOW dnd 


‘OREI ‘4aquiawopy YjOE Suipua ava X ‘SISNAXY LNAWAND 


“S40J1IPNP ‘ 
“AILNSDIL J ‘NWIHOW DI =. ES 


oo aay 
we 
ate 
epee 
Lar. 
ne: 
ore 
Pas 
gaits 
SPs a a ee ee SP a te eee et 
“pIMg Woy potrysuvy syuoy Jo junoWwY 
SI mere ress" papunyas ysodaq. UO }so19}U] 
ocr CBee eae Ce **sonqyoo’] 
067 Ss ge eee es eee drysizoq ua Jy 
reve) 000‘{ <. bug' 0) Sa, ob eee oes ee ‘sdrysioq wa vy 


woot "ott suoljwUOq pue suondriosqns 
TLI Groves etssss s+ suonseoy Aresioaruuy 


+ TPA ts ee ea ee et So ged Yep ener aoaurer At 


‘SLA TAT ON 1 


‘SANOL °O ‘L 
SSOU SANV 


"7" UEMOp onan aourleg 


19 z6L‘ “19 26455 


99: 12£S$-—— 


°) 


‘OSSI “aqUIDAON YIOL “IVAALNO]\ 


*y91109 puNoO] puv pouruiexy 


‘sreee*s* UMOD PoTIIVd soueled 


"e+ *qs919]UL puv UTe[D S UOPYW "yy AP 
ee sjusursed [[eus Arpuns 
meat women eS 
RRO. BOP Ea Oe Oe Oe. 8-0 Ee ee Oe YOK MON 

‘QOIWIWIOD [eUOT}VUIOJUT 0} UOTdrZOsqns 
Bier RGe nm epioece! saree *sosuod xq Aresioatuuy 
Te ae ee et ees ee at Le ay Cree are ee ee “‘SuIUvITD 
sears a Rates FOS ee ‘a ++ +sdureyg a3v}SO0g 
Trreessseceeessscremouay pure sireday 
rrressss espa Z IO} yUNosoe AIIUOT}L}S 


Pa ee et Bee ae ee Sha Boa “SUINTULOL | sOUeINSUT 
$09 see 6 wetcn 6-8 o>e 28 ee sreod ¢——sysurssossy 
o..6 Dice * <0 42.8 6 eee oe Te ag ton Yer a ‘Sunuig 


‘ress sesssegreomponog pur srodedsma N 
at SRSA SSE AROS ke Sees 
Trereserses eggsuadxy SUITJOARI], 


00 9Sz Pet eee econ - 
i¢ NE eke oe See ace “OQQI OF Jong 


ee ask embarassed aoe ee 


LOLs TG tt rete ee knee eed ONT Jo; eorIES oF 


‘SLNAWAVd 


LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS 


TO THE 


Montreal Young Men’s Christian Association 


For the Year ending November 80th, 1880. 


nn Eg ge 


Lite Members. 


INVOE, Ie AS a hs tice ie ve $100.00 
FIOUSGOR, ETE, i uke 100.00 
Hague, ‘Georgeig. 0 t's 58nd a2 100,00 
Bishop, . George) oi .isisinivi vidi, 100.09 
Mena, A iy Sea Ls 100.00 
ADS, WV ie ose a RUE $10.00 
Ames, Holden & Co........ 20.00 
Agen, Bo Ai Ce LE, tts 20.00 
Anderson, ‘Robt. 3.5.0.6 25.00 
Mecham, BO eu ic a 10.00 
Pussies a Malka napoee bok Ueite 2.00 
Buchanan, W. Ov siii ius 10.00 
Bell, Simpson & Co........ 10.00 
Black 8. Lael. eo ik in Sh: ich 5.00 
Bissett. Tames oo) oo 2244. 64 5.00 
BSnry, MSGORO oie oes. 5.00 
DATE OF TPO 6a) 6 sca 50.00 
Ottere Feo Baa ke cg 5,00 
Brodie @ Tarview S06 Ske 5.00 
Briscoe, ae Ta ee 2.00 
Benhy, James, 4445 his ily 5.00 
Benny, Robert...... ed 5.00 
BOPOWNTS WV OS crcl iuia d Soke OO 
Brodie Jamieson......... 5.00 
CUI WR ai 5.00 
eae Oe ane y te ehinks a 5.00 
|e a Fae Mia) MIN RMN et ae 1 2.09 
Brown, A. Bu Coe oy vic 5.00 
Belle Toe Pe eis ba ke 5.00 


MR Pa ti he Sed 

fuantlie, James... 546 laud. 
Mane, Warden: .4s 0 os .44). 
MeaLachien, J. Ssxipe odd. 
SOON, eT os kak vemalele's 


uch Anat Re FE a's is , 
Buchawan, Fi. Woo. 2h ahak 
Bishop of Montreal ........ 
eee. Ae i ew bs Sala) 


mentiey,, David iwi. oie le ia 

ry special. .... 
beicher, Mev Si i..000iak. 
Cochrane, Cassils & Co..... 
Bere Tal We As | ES er eee ay ert an 
Campbell, Kenneth & Co.. 
Cushing, Chas io. <'6 4 es een 


Crathern & Caverhill....... 


Cassils, Stimson & Co....... 
BOON ON <i ein i ao ao eS 
AMPUC UE A. sv asdy ok 
RCs. Cae a te 
ON ACUTE ARE COR RRR gp EN A 
BRUNI, Be Gu ie eG tate 
RAAT Me en se 
Rc a a an a eR 


100.00 
100.00 
100.00 


24 

Coristine, | & Co... ses 10,00, Wallon, Chas... 0 0. /9G 5.00 
SONSSTIG, Ws os aioe eben SoS SA MRNA 6c Ala kam wy wll 3.00 
it Aa 4k ws clack pear 2.00 Forbes, Stevenson & Co.... 5.00 
CARs CSOs is wis hulp hss 2.00: Fairbanks & Co............ 5.00 
Cowan, ‘Ri. Won) ce raise ai BOOM MBRCII: ois os Seis tele eae ek oo ee 2,00 
Deawiord,. pone eos eeas 10.00 Grafton, F. E. (1876-7-8-9)... 40.00 
Cleghorn,’ J.P ..'.0s ween ks 5.00 i (4830) 5 40. 10.00 
Carte DB canary x 5.00 Gnaedinger & Son....... ROG aay Fe 8 
Cummings, A. C's .4.utigs's 5.00 Greene, E. K....:+..%..-4> 30.00 
8 eA MORSE MeO YD eV AF 2.00 Gault Bros. & Co.......... 10.00 
ii ele 16 ek ib 6 (ata eM eek 1.00 Goodyear Rubber Co....... 5.00 
ourt) james 4516.02) eas 25.00 Greene, 'G. Al.s... ev... 25.00 
RIO DER, WV TNs cis bigs 0's 44 3c0'e 5.00 Greenshields, E. B......... 10.00 
Care, Vy b+ Kshs ere ales 5.00 Greenshields, D. J. ........ 10.00 
Creak, (Geo (1881)). 25546 en: 5.00 Glover & Brais............ 10.00 
Dakers. Tames, iis iss e's oe c.oOueatindliey, Ro Re. eben 5.00 
Bun Wiman & Ca. .3).¢ 065 10.00) Gould, Ira & Son... 5.00 
Drake & ods. cdi (Nee. THOS: Note Gee sie hiss ote 7 2.00 
Dougall, Jas. & Co......... 5.00 Graham & Co., ‘‘The Star”. 25.00 
Douglass & McNiece....... 5.00 Hua, Richardson & Co. .... 10,00 
Donahue, Ws. 6 cis cies eeithas 5.00 Heney & Lacroix.......... 10.00 
PIAWRON DDN ainsi k sets 5.00 Holland, R. H............ 10,00 
Doate TOR oie. sie as se BOF PeOpe, inked esa aN a 1.00 
Douglas, A... 2.025 es ote TCE MERIAL TIOR cies nik invokes ip tes 5.00 
Dangerfield, W ............ 1.00, Eiutton, James.) 0...) 2.645 500 
Datling, W. & Cow.svs.. 5.00 Hunsicker, J. W.........-. 2.00. 
Drummond, G. A..... pean 25.00. acee, Geos) icles yee Me 
POTS OR Eo. pani alarothintiw epi P.OOn Maid, RD. is ee Wiwiale ets 10.00 
Drysdale, Wm ............ 10.00 Henderson, Robert ........ 10.00 
Phemedon, Wie Wi vee, esa wis 2.00 Henderson, William........ 5.00 
Dubcan, John .......4. ss. SO Habe Os fo ils ica re Red a ol Os Pasi, cael 
By J) Me Mae sts 4007: Podery,: Be. Bi ics sie cles). 20.00 
Dougall, John & Son. | seaigt Johnston, James & Co...... 20.00 

‘‘The Witness” J} °°" “a DTA, i. i cles ERO 5.00 
Elliot, James... 6.66.) oeey iO: Meta: DD an «sient RIS Ah 10.00 
Evans & Riddell.... ...... 5.00 Jamieson, R. C. & Co...... 5.00 
Boveleigh,: Joi. wat dnithe ie vaste 5.00 Jaques, G. E. & Co......... 20.00 
Ewing, S. H. & A.S....... 25.00 Jackson, H. feb: Sirah SE 5.00 
Evans, Henry $..).-.-.55 >> 10.00 Johnson, B. D.. ........-. 2.00 
vans, Wm. 0 fe Re Soc ves, FL. Re ea en 5.00 
Ewing Bros.....sseeesess ToodiTewin, Robt... ascivd aa eae as 5.00 
Esplin, G. & J...... sees. TO,OG EVANSOR, Joi. cal swe le iets 1.00 
Ewan, Wm, & Son......:. $10G) wean, Wardens. oii. slew 10,00 
Evans, Edward...........- 5.00 ~Kennedg, Jobtyy.).....56450 4% 10.00 
Ecroyd, Thos.........-+--- SOG: Manlochy Wi Gio... ote a Sin 5.00 
Pars BLOG. 6 6 ssid oo GSS Sod) Heemp, Geo. jist swe k oes 5.00 


Pair; Jonas os) 66 jivdcies ers W600) Dang, (Me. occu eee ees 10.00 


Rm 


duyman,  Flegnys6 2). es oils 2% 
Livingstone, John.......... 
Learmont, 1. 8 vaaed < waddan 
DUBIN EE sien dose Sires ie le 
Leeming, T. &iCoe. ve 77, 
duarmonth & Son... .iaabt. 
Beat, Tawi josie els 
Lamepig (200s oy be RG 
LOR RR ol as hes 
Lightbound,  G.oi.vi. wikiewwla ds 
Murphy, John & Co........ 
Morrice, David: ... 6.42. 
Miller, Roberts. os jsesmesalusa 
Mills & Hutchison. ........ 


DROP WIT TWA 6 sictuialels lace 
Piwcierion. WW i. ai, 


MACOR JON. mwa ae fs 
Meldrum. | James. i. 3 vine). 
WAP MALCE BO ei ie mes ale 
Morton, Philips & Bulmer... 
Morton, Hetiry 4.65 ood bed, 
MOiBoris Magli yes cel hots 
Marier & Payne, 04.1452. 3). 
NERO Toi Peava c's su we 
Miller Bros. & Mitchell..... 
fo ss Ai ee Ne a ConA Pi 9 
McLachlan Bros. & Cc. .... 
McLean, John & Co........ 
McLean, Shaw & Co....... 
MACKEY LOB ei vee cde 
McLennan, SIME els oso 
McDougall, Logie & Co.... 
MCLaren, Wins vai leeks 
MCALCS. Ao Ro i 
MacKedie, J. W. & Co..... 
MacDougall, D. Lorne...... 
DAGCIIONRIE LT sie seve 
DCR BOWE i CE eg 
MclLachign, Bers. os eis 63 
Nelson, H. A. & Son...... 
Ned, Wadwartdog oo os 
Ie VE SNE ee ay tis ly i 
D 


25 


Notman & Sandham...,.... 
Paton, Laws oss cade dvidos 
Porteous, TOR ahteis is’ abe 9) seis 
Pinkerton, Whitham & Co.. 
Packard, L. H, & Co... 4%; 
POreI0s, Pie Dh ie dba eee ee 
Perry & Cassils 
Porter Savage ics. 5 yes 
pte et ale, aE: Se nD Ee DT NO 
Pa es oe uf aibirh vw eet 
Tea sss ile ie ela 
RICCO, Fe Ses oss cal aed 
A IIR 'n'o's elnino ine wtb 
5 Ae ON. a 
Paterson. T0866. 5 Uva eae 
Daas Fa TS a pe 
PEST De: Fas hci ak ee 
Fealston, 2. Gr OMe ois) )e ee bs 
PORGIOUG x VY = Gh ince ee oma 
Rankin, Beattie & Co...... 
Richards, Joseph .......... 
Robertson, Robert. ....... 

RettaAy 600 COs. sic ceive ye 
Ross, James..... 
Reford, Robert & Co....... 
avaeet, SEE BC Tass soieid dina 
Rose @& Haskell. .....66 650/04 
Robertson,. Thomas........ 
Robertson, James: 3.6. 41, , 
Robertson, Linton & Co.... 
Rost, PSs eee 
BOOG, Lea NA AE cy ee ee ates 
Res, AE SSE 
SHOWGOR Ma ia s yaw hie ey 
LOVORRONY J, Phau ek Suess 
eR PER ley wine le 
mtephen, Georges 445465 cek 
Se WV TS vn en 
Dnt he eee eres 
meme, | EE Ge as es 
oo 5 EU SAID FYE 
Simpson. James & Son...... 
SSK: TONE fsb sels viet 
pavage A ke Bony. ils iG 
Sharpley, Rice & Son...... 
Mey ecg oy IRL Sais SRSA MO De amie 
co cec 2 SON alli . Seip a FU PE NERE CU 


eesreeenveevee @ 


26 


Sinithers, Co Fis. i agjo0 Menrancte, ‘D; '& Co! eal) ..2500 
Sutherland, Lindsay & Co.. 10.00 Tweed samples per \ xh 
Shaw Bros. & Cassils....... 10.00 McLachlan Bros...... = 


Simss A. BRO Ve aire goo * inmpson, - Jobs... oe Fe (Oe 
Sheater, J. Sufi 2s th ate hed Mlgon, . Walter &Co...8 on 25o 
Smardon, Bes osha, oO Ste ey, BUGS. 0% 6 ess CPR OR Ae 
SN ER TAA rae se eS $:00° ‘Watkes, - Robt..........:.5. 4808). ROO 
Samuel, Wee. ise See? TOO  Wiaksony Ji Cues eee EA TONOO 
Scott, Wir ck ou ee 2100 Sse, He es ea EE 44 gee 
Tees, Costigan & Wilson.... 25.00 Wilson, Paterson & Co..... 5.00 
TOGKE DIOR 6.8 eT ROS OO MRE ASCO: cain ov bbe dC ROO 
Tirmbull, Johns )).....25090 "R00 Waeren, We Es vs OO 
Tees, Wiis ae as A: lOO FEM, James. 03 00800 9506 
Tester, J. W: & Co:.......° 1.00 Williamson, James......... 5.00 
Thothas,’ Richard (3 0 Oe s.00 |" Wrrtgon,. BiG. oo i's es AO 
Taylor; Johny. ei. ee dae aeloo” Balle, Wit DD. pe Oa 1 2g 


en 0 a vcr — 


AMOUNTS RECEIVED AFTER NOVEMBER 30TH, 188o. 


Life Membership. 


James Tasker.............: $100:00 
Subscriptions. 


Mick Flee co ce Baon® Geran, TE oe ROSES A SOO 
Basin, ee es Seow Mee Teme ys Fie edad, 2A0k Oe 
Tompkins, M. Hii G0. yonii§lod “Skephens, G, -H...... eves l 4 yhoo 
eee, D. So. nasil peer Sloe TR Ae i ec ek cee oho 
Davig Msy.02 4 ovoid. ees) goo  Memettield, CliddGo ls caer yelob 
Hughes & Stephenson 5, 5505) 54000 Sams Bas. a ee Te eeeOo 
Maaioe,. Fe EE Be Te Rev Sc. wo vtt Gnitsegioe 
Alex, Cla ioc, + ativieble ss. PeQs0o 


27 


FORM OF BEQUEST. 


UR Cli aioe Ria i at a east sis hon A WSR UMNBR Lilcoc fel Manse aI, Meg aca ore ee Oe ee eM Cir eI 


and the receipt of the Treasurer thereof shall be a sufficient 


discharge to my Executors for the same. 


