Ll 
Mi tr Ue 
Tlie fe 


ie 


) Rey ih) 


rap pu | 


THE NINETY-FIFTH ANNUAL REPORT 
| OP TE | , i 


YOUNG MENS! CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 


YEAR ENDING MARCH 31ST, 196. 


— =00000- 


THE NINETY-PIFTH ANNUAL REPORT 
OF THE 
YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 


FOR THE YEAR ENDING MARCH 3lst, 1946, 


The Board of Directors present herewith the 95th Annual Report 
in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution, It reviews a 
memorable year in the history of this country and mankind, 


Early in the period covered by this report, the Allies reach- 
ed the climax of their combined inexorable drive across Germany from all 
directions and we celebrated V-E Day symbolizing a victory which brought 
into the hearts of millions a feeling of profound and heart-felt thanks-~ 
giving, Immediately the efforts of the Allies were directed towards the 
Pacific and much sooner than had been expected or hoped for, came V-J Day. 
The end of global warfare had been reached, At the same time, however, 
use of the atomic bomb in hastening the war’s end created a sober re-action 
which did much to modify the elation over final victory, Thoughtful per- 
sons realized that mankind had entered a new age in human history, fraught 
with droadful possibilities, 


The process of demobilization of the Canadian Armed Services 
proceeded rapidly, and a continuous stream of transports conveyed back 
to Canada our young men and women who had been overseas, many of them 
for several years, Troops stationed in this country were gradually re- 
leased, also, 


With the end of the need for munitions production a complicated 
period of "re-conversion" to peace-time production set in, Canada pro~ 
bably suffered less than any other country in this process, in spite of 
much dissatisfaction over delays and some hardships. Perhaps the out- 
standing problems have been the acute nation-wide housing shortage, 
especially as this has affected the returning service-men, and the alarm- 
ing increase in crime and delinquency, particularly on the part of the 
group 17 to 22 years of age, 


Events of significance in the field of social welfare were the 
actions of the Dominion Government in establishing a Ministry of Health. 
and Welfare and the Quebec Government in establishing a Ministry of Youth 
and Social Welfare. 


These were the main clements of the general situation in which 
the Association conducted its work during the past year. We have had to 
go through our own period of re-converstion from war to peace-time opera- 
tion, and this has required a considerable amount of re-ad justment. 


In reviewing the work of the past twelve months it should be 
kept in mind that each of our building branches has already reported to 
its own branch Annual Meeting, This report therefore will deal with 
matters of a more general interest which affect the Montreal Association 
as a whole, 


Re WAR SERVICES IN MONTREAL - LAST PHASE 


For the seventh year the buildings and equipment of the 
Montreal Association have been used by the men and women of the Services 
without charge, on the same basis as members, Following the termina- 
tion of hostilities and the commencement of demobilization there was a 
steady decline in attendance at activities for persons in uniform. 
Nevertheless during the periods of heaviest troop movements, the Central 
building, in particular, was on many occasions crowded to the doors with 
those recently returned from overseas. 


Central Branch physical department supplied 59,678 swims and 
baths during the year, which is 41% of the total usage of that Branch for 
the year. There was a total of 51,104 bed-nights in the Y.M.C.A. re- 
sidence for Servicemen, while 11,289 men were directed to rooms outside 
through the Hospitality Corner of Central Branch which continued to func- 
tion until February 1946, providing a variety of important services up 
to the end, 


The Red Triangle Club on Phillips Square functioned throughout 
the year, closing its doors finally, March 3lst, 1946, and completing one 
of the most effective pieces of war service conducted in Canada during 
six and a half War years, For the last few months of its existence there 
was a constant intermingling of men already discharged with the men still 
in uniform, The former gravitated naturally to the “old spot" of happy 
memory, reluctant to cut off this last connection with army life. 


Westmount Branch continued for most of the year to provide gym 
and swim facilities for men of the R.A.F.T.C., and the R,C.A.F. patients 
at the Timmins Convalescent Hospital and men of the Royal Norweigan Air 
Force. 


During the summer season at Camp Otoreke the Armed Services 
were represented by 169 men, 8 women and 11 married couples, 


Notre Dame de Grace Branch continued to send regular newsletters 
to their members in the three Services, This overseas letter which began 
in October 1940 with 24 copies monthly, ended in March 1946 with a cir 
culation of 946, North Branch also mailed newsletters each month to 
all members on their Honor Roll, Sir George Williams College provided 
courses without cost to 286 men and women of the Forces, 


Y.M.C.A. War Services were conducted throughout the year at 
the Military Hospital, Queen Mary Road, at the R. C. 0. ©, Depot, Longue 
Pointe, and with units of the Royal Canadian Navy. 


The Honor Roll of the Montreal Association, at the war's end 
included 3944 names of men serving on land, sea and in the air. At least 
326 made the supreme sacrifice. 


Se 


WAR SERVICES CONDUCTED IN BRANCHES OF MONTREAL Y.M.C.A., 
DURING PERIOD SEPTEMBER 1ST, 1939 TO MARCH 31ST,1946, 


Note: Branches include Central, Westmount, Notre Dame de Grace, 
Southwestern, North and International, 


Total Participation 


Last 
Year 1939 - 1946 
Swims and Baths 

and use of Gymnasia 30,317 495,030 
Use of Libraries 400 18, 656 
Use of Billiards, 

Table Tennis, Etc. 19,382 111,563 
Social Teas, Ete, 12,625 76,976 
Dances 24,724 174,796 
Use of Lobby and 

Social Rooms 14,893 452 ,697 
Bed-Nights in 'Y' Residence 51,104 226,322 
Directed to Lodgings 11,289 57,628 


Education Classes 
Sir George Williams College 15,160 83,545 
(1527 Service men & women) 


Hospitality in Homes 150 7,232 
Attendance at regular ‘yt 


Activities - including Camps, 
Tennis, Rinks, Etc, (Estimate)10,000 93,256 


Grand Total 259,844 1,797, 701 


3,  RE-ASSIMILATION - NEW PHASE 


In common with all Canadian Y,M.C.A.'s, the Montreal Association 
offered to all men discharged from the three Services a six months 
membership, covering all privileges, free of charge, This was done in 
grateful recognition of their services to Canada and as a means of help- 
ing them in the process of re-adjustment to civilian Life, 


National Y.M,C.A, War Services distributed "Welcome Home" leaf- 
lets to all men during their journey toward demobilization, In these 
leaflets the various services which the Association in Canada was pre- 
pared to render and the of’er of free memberships were made known, 
Y.M.C.A, Welcome Posters were on display also at all discharge depots 
throughout Canada. Locally, letters were sent from our Metropolitan 
Office to English-speaking men discharged through M.D, 4, We extended 
& welcome home, offered the services of the Association and an invita- 
tion to take advantage of the frec membership. To date a total in all 
Branches of 5341 have applied for and used these memberships as follows: 


Central 3228 
Southwestern 478 
Notre Dame de Grace 473 
Westmount 325 
North 559 
International 78 

5341 


Note: Over 2000 veterans enrolled in Sir George Williams 
College, in addition, are granted free privileges in our 
Branches, 


A serious attempt has been made to get these young veterans inter- 
ested in our various activities and the response on the whole has becn 
encouraging. Various social events were conducted in tho Branches, ¢.8., 
at Notre Dame de Grace ten "Welcome Home" dinnors were held, attended by 
779 returned men, Gencrally speaking, the veterans have shown little dcosire 
for segregated activitics and prefer to participate in the regular, on-going 
program. 


During this period of re-ad justment which is so trying to many 
veterans, the Association has bcen able to render a variety of personal 
services to a large number of mon, Those have had to do with securing 
employment, educational guidance, family problems, housing accommodation, 
making new friends, finding opportunities for wise use of leisure time and 
Similar matters, 


Perhaps the most outstanding single contribution of the Association 
has been made in Sir Goorge Williams College, through the Vetcrans'* 
Preparatory Courses and the regular Day Faculty. Details are given elscs 
where in this report, 


4, PLANNING FOR RE-CONVERSION 


A year before the war's end the Canadian Y,M,C.A, commenced a 
study of the Association Movement throughout Canada, Post-war planning 
was in the air, and along with it a recognition of the fact that the 
needs and opportunities for service in the new days of peace would in- 
evitably differ greatly from those which had faced our movement hereto- 
fore, As a result of this country-wide study the report "The Years Ahead - 
A Plan for the Canadian Y.M.C.A. in the Next Decade" was published and 
made available to Canadian Associations in October 1945, It has been 
stated that no other organization, national in scope, had ready so com- 
prehensive a plan with which to face the immediate post-war situation, 


The Montreal Association participated in this Study, supplying 
data as to local operations and conditions and sharing in the formula- 
tion of conclusions and recommendations. In June 1945 Mr, Alan E. Hugg, 
who at that time had just completed an assignment with the National 
Council, was engaged for a period of six months to proceed with a fur- 
ther study of the Montreal Y.M.C.A. applying the findings of the 
Canadian Study to the local situation and extending the investigation 
into aspects of the Association not covered in the national project. 

At the time of writing this report the Montreal Study is nearing its 
conclusion, 


This process of evaluation and planning for the future has had 
a stimulating effect upon the Association Movement in Canada and par- 
ticularly in Montreal, Laymen and secretaries have spent hours of time 
in study and discussion on this project of self-analysis, Much consid- 
eration has yet to be given to the implementation of the findings of 
the Study. Undoubtedly, this will be a continuing process for years 
to come. 


In the meantime, as a result of the Study certain significant 
facts have emerged in connection with our Montreal work: 


is While undoubtedly the problem has been aggravated by the war, 
the figures in the report nevertheless reveal that there is much too 
large a "turnover" in membership annually, While the Montreal average 
is slightly better than the Canadian average, the more thorough assim- 
ilation of our members, resulting in a better record of continuity, 
must be a matter of immediate concern and action. 


Bs The report also reveals a distinct trend during the war 
years towards mass activities and a lessening of small group activities. 
There are valid reasons to explain this trend, but the Montreal 
Association should definitely plan to eliminate this over-emphasis by 
enlarging its program of small group activities, 


4, Continued 


3. 
in all parts of the City is striking, 
geographical spread of this service to youth, 


Place of Residence of Y.M,C.A. Members 
as at May 1945 


The extent to which the Montreal Association serves 
The table below indicates the 


ou. 


eople 


Districts Central S.W. N.D.G, North West. Int'l S.G.W. Total 
Mt, Royal 170 3 34 28 45 12 182 444 
Nu Ds Gis 248 LO) e206 9 64 6 529 2,072 
Verdun 314 1,339 aL a 12 12 425 2,125 
West-St.H. 253 8 14 248 6 257 786 
Central 823 16 Ly 9 38 22 554 1,479 
North 350 10 19 711 5 45 949 2,107 
E. Central 557 5 14 329 362 1,267 
Rosemount 283 4 ua 31 8 89 584 
Vaison've 251 4 1 a 9 147 393 
Lachine 128 3 4 4 84 425 
Sth, Shore 71 el i 3 1 116 193 
Lakeshore 34 5 o7 96 
3,462 1,403 1,307 808 422 450 3,749 11,971 
Note: As our membership has greatly increased since the above 
count, these figures do not apply in 1946, though the 
"relative spread" is probably little changed, 
4, Nevertheless, 28% of the boy population of Montreal live more than 


a mile from any one of our Branch buildings or extension centres, This fact 


must be kept in mind in future planning. 


5. 40% of the English-speaking population of Greater Montreal live cast 
of St. Lawrence Street, according to the 1941 census figures, Since this 
mass of people is separated into small English-speaking "pockets" the problem 
of serving them adequatcly is greatly accentuated, 


6. The extent to which the Montreal Association now serves both sexes is 
indicated in the following comparison over a 15-year period of the relativo 
proportions of male and female memberships: 


Y.M.C.A. Total Membership: 


In 1930 - Boys 38% Men 62% Women andGirls 0 
Iv 1944 a a 27% iT] 38% " t i 35% 
7, The religious affiliation of members is also of interest: 
Protestant R.C, French R,C.English Jewish 
All Branches 68% 13% 14% 3% 
College 4.9% 15% 16% 16% 
Montreal Total 61% 14% 15% 8% 


7. 
Se PROGRAM 


The Canadian Youth Commission has pointed out, as a result of 
their survey, that young people in the 15 - 24 year-old bracket have 
acute needs with which few agencies seem adequately equipped to deal, i,e., 
that this age group are the most neglected today. The Canadian 
Y.M.C.A, Study recommends that the Association should specialize in 
this age field, giving it prior attention, 


The Montreal Association has given special attention during the 
past year to the needs and interests of the 15 - 19 year-old group. 
Special Teen-age Clubs, adjusted fees, attractive programs, respons- 
ibility for self-government, have been factors in causing a large in- 
erease in this section of the membership. 


Tn common with other Canadian Associations, Montreal has noted a 
rapid development in co-educational work during the war years, It is quite 
apparent that this trend is consistent both with the desires of young 
people and with the judgement of educators, The trend was maintained 
last year and much of our program was conducted on a co-educational basis, 


It should be remembered that the Montreal Y.M.C.A, has two Family’ 
Branches in which parallel programs, one for young men and boys, the other 
for young women and girls, are conducted, using the same equipment on se- 
parate schedules, This activity is quite distinct from the co-educational 
program, as such, In two other branches, a limited program for young women 
and girls is conducted, using the equipment at times when jt can be spared, 


A. Boys and Girls Program: 


(1) Building Activities: Six Branches have well-rounded pro- 
grams, along physical, social, educational and religious lines, 
with organized clubs, gymnasium classes, swimming instruction, 
athletics, handicrafts, game tournaments, hockey clubs and leagues, 


(2) Community Work has been conducted in several districts 
where the Association has no buildings, This has been possible 
through the invaluable co-operation of school boards and Church 
officials, who have loaned their buildings and playgrounds, 
During the year a full-time secretary started work in Point St. 
Charles, and full-time secretaries continued expanding programs 
at Rosemount and Lachine, Part-time secretaries conducted work 
in Maisonneuve, Hochelaga, Montreal East and Terminal Park, 
International Branch continued its extension work at Alexandra 
and Aberdeen Schools, North Branch at Peace Centennial School, 


5. 


Continued 


(3) Hobby Shows were held in four Branches: Central, 
Westmount, North and Southwestern, with close to 4000 entries 
in all, The boys and girls carried much of the respons- 
ibility involved in the arrangements in these events. 


(4) Summer Vacation Clubs or 'City Camps' were conducted 

at seven Branches, the one at Peace Centennial School being 
the latest addition, 1245 boys and girls were enrolled, 

the average duration of the clubs was five wecks, In several 
cases, the program for the entire period was built around a 
special theme, ¢.g., Central's theme was "The United Nations 
and World Citizenship," 


(5) Hi-Y Clubs enlisted nearly 500 senior high school 
students in ten different High Schools of Greater Montreal, 
There were cight clubs for boys, five clubs for girls and 

two Junior Hi-Y Clubs, The program included activities re- 
lated to the personal development of the members and to ser- 
vice in the schools, 


(6) Gra-Y¥ Clubs wore operated in several schools and we are 
pleased to report that this movement of boys in the elementary 
schools is developing, 


(7) Leaders Corps were active in five Branches, rendering 
helpful service of many types. Leadership training was con+ 
ducted to prepare these boys and girls. 


Young Adults Program: 


(1) Informal Education: Activitics of great variety wero .con- 
ducted in all our Branches, These included: 


(a) Arts and Crafts: facilitios and instruction were 
provided for leatherwork, weaving, woodwork, photo~ 
graphy, bookbinding, woodcarving, poster design, 
painting, pottery, jowelry and metal work, plastics 
and othor interests. At Contral Branch accommodation 
was unequal to the demand, 


(b) Dramatic groups in Central and Southwestern 
Branches had successful seasons and gave several 
porformances, 


(c) Music appreciation in many forms was encouraged, 
The Central group developed a regular weekly program 
and commentary which proved of considerable interest. 


(d) Language classes in English, French and Spanish 
were conducted in International, Central and other 
Branches, 


(e) Public speaking was featured and debates were held, 
(f) Discussion groups, lectures and addresses, Citizen's 


Forum Groups, encouraged interest in public affairs, 


\ 


Sy Continued 


(g) Libraries in Central and Southwestern Branches had 
a circulation of 7491 during the year, Magazines and 
newspapers were available in all Branches, 


(2) Physical Education and Recreation attracted a large proportion 


of our members, 


(a) Indoor activities included gymnasium classes for all 
ages and both sexes, gymnastics, calisthenics, basket ball, 
badminton, boxing, wrestling, swimming, life saving, weight- 
lifting, etc. Leagues and meets throughout the year helped 
maintain the interest, The Central program of swimming de- 
serves special mention: 12,310 lessons, 3,531 passed 
National Y.M,C.A. Swimming tests, 1,013 were taught to swim, 
51 men and boys passed life-saving tests and received certi- 
ficates, 


(b) Outdoor activities: included skating, hockey, ski-ing, 
tennis, baseball, rugby, picnics, sleigh drives, etc. We 

had a very successful season at our Ski Lodge at Christieville 
which was used by 269 individuals during the winter. Bi-~ 
cyele trips increased in interest and participation, 


(3) Informal Games were available in all building branches, such as 
table tennis, billiards, chess and checkers and were greatly used at 

"odd moments", Occasional competitions created additional interest 

as did bridge tournaments. 


(4) Co-educational Activities for young people included splash and 
dance parties (78 were held at Central with 27,097 total participa- 
tion); Saturday Night Qlubs, Fri-Nite Club, an Year's Eve Dance, out- 
ings, picnics, sleigh drives, discussion groups, chapel services, 
conferences and many other features, In several Branches, So-Ed 
Series were conducted, This is 4 type of socialveducational activity 
popular among young people, 


(5) Two Phalanx Clubs (one re-organized after a lapso of a few 
years) were active in the latter part of the year, This isa 
National organization of growing popularity among younger men, 


Speaking generallydevelopment of our program is based upon the needs and 
interest of youth, Their present capacities and the extent of our resources of 
leadership and equipment are of necessity guiding factors, Our program is aimed 
to provide opportunity for increase in skills, growth in leadership, and for 
experience in the art of getting alom= with others, At its best, it trains 
young people in Christian, democratic livim, 


10, 


5. PROGRAM 
C, Organized Camping: 


(a) The 52nd season at Camp Otoreke, on Lake St.Joseph, 
was another success. 931 young people spent their vaca- 
tions at camp during the three months' it was in operation, 
with a total attendance of 18,965 camper-days, 


The usual camp activities of swimming, canosing, fish- 
ing, tennis, picnics, volley ball, horse~shoes, camp-fires, 
dances, Sunday Chapel services, regattas, treasure hunts, etc, 
were thoroughly enjoyed, Five canoe trips in July and two in 
August were conducted up through the Pembina River and Lake 
Chapleau countries, 


Special program items included:- Art classos in Juno, 
Nature study for part of July, Wood-carving classes in mid- 
summer; discussion groups on: Visual Education (with film 
demonstrations), Dominion Government Post-war Plans, and Life 
in South America; a marionette production at the end of the 
Scason, One cvening weekly movies were available through cour- 
tesy of the National Film Board. 


(b) Kamp Kanawana, our boys" camp near St, Sauveur, in the 
Laurentians, had another satisfactory season, the 52nd for 
boys arranged by the Montreal Association. 324 different boys 
attended for 1360 camp-woeks, during the eight-weck period, 

A capablo staff of 24 mon and womon was in charge, assisted by 
35 older boys as tent and cabin leaders, A feature of the 1945 
scason was the visits of scveral old campers recently returned 
from overseas service in the Forces. Two 19-foot canoes wero 
purchased for out-trips, and cight trips wero made, starting 
from Shawbridge, down the North River, to tho Ottawa River and 
return 


Boating, sailing, woodcraft,campceraft, games swimming in- 
struction, life saving, over-night hikos, camp-fires, Sunday 
chapel services, amateur nights, nature study, talks by visitors, 
were among the regular featuros. The health of the campers was 
excellent, 


(c) Camp Perrot, our new near-tho-city camp on Isle Perrot, 
operated for its second season, with many improvements noted, 


180 boys attended during thoir six-week period, and 62 girls 
during a two-week period, A total of 242 different campers for 
480 camper-wecks, Several Service Clubs and other interested 
friends made it possible for a group of deserving boys and girls 
to attend camp, including sons of service men and others, who 
would otherwise not have bcen there, 


The program was varicd, with an cmphasis on games, swim- 
ming and hiking. Tho camp garden proved intoresting to many, 
The waterfront progran was always popular, Evening vespers, 
camp-fires, sing-songs, stunt nights, etc, rounded out the 
activitios of the full days, 


ane 


6. SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS COLLEGE AND SCHOOLS 


The outstanding developments in the College and Schools this 
year have been: first, a continuation of the phenomenal growth in en- 
rollment which has characterized this work throughout the past two 
decades; and second, a contribution to the rehabilitation education 
program for veterans which has involved, to date, well over 2000 ex- 
service men and women, 


The College has every reason to be proud of its record in this 
regard, In all units of the College and Schools the need to provide for 
veterans has been accepted as a primary obligation, This has necessitated 
the use of equipment and resources on 4 scale unparalleled even under the 
pressure of wartime training programs. For fourteen hours per day, 
twelve full months in the year, practically every classroom and labora- 
tory has been in constant use, Entirely typical of this multiple use 
of space has been the Claremont Division, which has operated definitely 
on a “three-shift" basis - a morning shift from 8:30 a.m, to 2:15 p.m, 
an afternoon shift from 2:15 p.m. to 7:00 p.m,, and the evening division 
from 7:00 to 10:30 p.m, 


The College has conducted its classes in four buildings through- 
out the year: its main plant in the Central building, its eight-room 
Annex on Drummond Street, the 19-classroom building on Claremont Avenue 
provided by the Federal Government for use in the college preparatory 
trainimg of veterans, and the Stevenson Hall of Emmanuel United Chur ch 
six mornings per week, for which the College is greatly indebted to the 
officers and congregation of the Church, 


At the new Claremont Division a remarkably fine service has 
been rendered in providing pre-matriculation and refresher training to 
858 veterans in the course of the year, 


Total registration in the College and Schools during the year 
1945-46 has been 5324 as compared with 3473 the previous year - not in- 
cluding the 286 members of the armed forces who were enrolled without 
tuition fee, The distribution of these students was as follows: 


A. Winter Term 1945-46 Day Evening 

Division Division Total 

1. College (Faculty of Arts, 
Science & Commerce 556 1258 1814 
2. High School 1118 1118 
3. Business School 268 813 1081 
4, Art School 138 183 S21 
5. Elementary School 132 1352 
6. Veterans' College Prep. (Claremont) 858 858 
Total 1820 3504 5324 
Armed Forees (free enrollment) 5 281 286 


Total 1825 3785 5610 


le. 


6. Continued 


B. Swmmer Session - 1945 Day Evening 
Division Division Total 
1. College 338 338 
2, High School 180 180 
3, Business School 39 147 186 
4, Veterans' College Prep. 85 85 
Total 124 665 789 
Armed Forces (free enrollment) 90 90 
Total 124 755 879 


With the close of the academic year 1945-46, the College brings 
to an end its seven-year practice of providing free tuition in regular 
classes to members of the armed forces. This war service, which has 
accommodated 286 men and vomen in uniform this year as compared with 381 
in the peak year 1944-45, has enrolled some 1527 members of the armed 
forces since its inception in October 1939, While many of these have 
had a fairly short tcrmof contact with the College, a very good number 
have had extended periods of attendance, Some have been able thereby to 
qualify for diplomas and degrees, and many have made a good start upon 
the rehabilitation education programs to be continued upon demobilization, 


The Staff of the College and Schools has included some 250 persons, 
of whom 90 have been full-time instructars, administrators or clerical 
workers, An important addition to the staff has been that of a Student 
Counsellor, whose guidance services will augment and co-ordinate those of 
the general supervisory officers and help to retain the close concern for 
the individual student which has been at the heart of the College's program 
throughout the years, 


At the annual Convocation of the College, eighty-eight students 
were awarded Bacbolorst degrees in Arts, Science or Commerce, sixty~six 
received Associate diplomas representing the successful completion of a 
selected two-year program of college studies, and four were presented with 
Diplomas in Association Science for academic work in training for the 
professional secretaryship of the Young Men's Christian Association. 
During the year more than sixty-five graduates of the College were in 
attendance at universities in Canada and the Unitéd States, following pro- 
grams of study leading to higher degrees. 


13. 


7. CHRISTIAN EMPHASIS 


The most important advance made during the year in the continu- 
ing effort to maintain the Christian Emphasis in our program, was the 
appointment of a full-time secretary to help in achieving this purpose, 
The constant interpretation of our program in terms of the Association's 
stated purpose, and the testing of our work against these standards has 
been the practice for years, 


During the year 150 laymen from all Branches attended the Annual 
Keymen's Conference when our program was carefully reviewed, particularly 
in the light of the recommendations of the Canadian Y,M,C.A, Study. Other 
helpful conferences, when the appraisal of our activities took place, in- 
cluded: the Hi-Y Regional Conference at Kingston, the National Y.M.C.A, 
Young Peoplest Conference at Ottawa, the Regional Conference on "The 
Years Ahead" also at Ottawa, the Regional Secretaries Conference, an 
Inter-Branch Young Peoples' Conference, a conference for Hi-Y Officers, 
and city-wide staff conferences, These provided inspiration to our 
volunteer workers and a challenge to better workmanship. 


The Chapel in Central building has continued to be a symbol of 
the spirit which we must ever strive to keep at the heart of the Associa- 
tion, It was used throughout the year for a variety of special services, 
organ recitals, induction ceremonies, as well as for private devotions. 
Groups making use of the Chapel included: Hi-Y, Gra-Y, Sir George Williams 
College students, Branch Boards, Saturday Night Club, Phalanx, and various 
committees, Organ music from the chapel may now be broadcast in the Lobby 
and this has been done on special occasions, 


A special V-E Day Thanksgiving Service was conducted in Budge 
Hall on the Sunday appointed by the King for this purpose, with a large 
group of Association members and friends in attendance, 


Two corporate Church services were arranged by Otoreke campers 
during the winter at Calvary United Church and the Church of the 
Ascension, The Hi-Y held a city-wide church service at Emmanuel Church, 
attended by several hundred older boys and girls, The co-operation of 
the churches was greatly appreciated, 


Other Association activities which help to emphasize our 
Christian objective include: seasonal worship services, inspirational 
addresses, Good Friday decision meeting (at Notre Dame de Grace Branch), 
Week of Prayer observance, Camp Sunday Chapel Services, evening tent devo- 
tions, sale and distribution of selected literature, etc. Display of 
the Association triangle emblem and the Statement of Purpose in prominent 
locations in our buildings has been of hcolp, There has boen a weekly 
display of information regarding Church services in the Central lobby, 


1h 


8. MEMBERSHIP 


As already stated earlier, membership in the Montreal Assoc- 
iation has grown considerably during the year, the chief cause of 
this increase being the return of our young men from overseas, On 
March 31st our paid membership was 14,198, and in addition 3,l25 
veterans held complimentary memberships. This is an increase of 
2,450 ordinary members during the year, or 5,875 if veterans active 
in our program are included. This represents an increase in part- 
icipation of 50% over the previous yeare Receipts were $73,839.25 
compared with $67,942.54 a year ago, an increase of $5,896.71. The 
most encouraging increase is shown in the young men's division which 
suffered so heavily during the war years. 


Membership in the various branches as at March 31st was as 


follows:-~ 
19L46 

Veterans Ordinary 195 1939 
Central 1,976 b,055 3 9369 2,929 
Sir George Williams 5 527 3,851 1,404 
Southwestern hh 1,38 1,103 998 
Notre Dame de Grace 23 1,181 1,315 921 
North 359 1,236 902 852 
Westmount 175 589 715 760 
International hs 5h3 299 283 
Lachine 206 258 122 


Eastern Community 297 PteSt.Chas. 


180 ~ 
eee eae eee 835 


Panne, 6h, 267 (Civic) 
Sa ae ee 


Add Veterans 3 9125 


Total number of members ... 17,623 


Less duplicates 


The above figures do not include summer, skating, tennis, camp 
and other seasonal and short-term members, which number about 3,000 
in the year, nor do they include the thousands who are reached through 
our community groups and pay no membership fees. 


A reasonable estimate: of the total of members and other partici- 
pants during the past year would be placed at 25,000 persons. 


The press, radio, printed material and our own "Y.M.C.A. NEWS" 
have been used to advantage in keeping our work before our members and 
the general public. 


156 


8, MEMBERSHIP (Cont'd) 


For purposes of the Association Year Book, an analysis was made 
December 31st, 1945, of our total membership ot that date, which will 
be of interest: 


By Ages: Under 12 years Th 
es | On 547% 
15 - 17 is 21% 
18 = 2h ' 33 07% 
25 = 29 : 13% 
a. a 10.5% 
35 and over 9.1% 


It will thus be seen that 80% of our Y.M.C.A. membership is 
under 30 years of age, and less than 10% is over 35 years. It is also 
shown that the important 15 - 2h year age group (see recommendations of 
the Canadian Youth Commission and the Canadian Y.M.C.A. Study) forms 
5.7% of our total membership. 


9, COMMUNITY RELATIONSHIPS 


These are days which demand increasing co-operation in community 
organization. The danger is that this co-ordinating and planning mach- 
inery may become top heavy and involve too much time on the part of an. 
organization like the Y.M.C.A., which carries heavy membership respon- 
sibilities and is constantly faced with new needs and new opportunities. 


The Montreal Association has endeavoured to maintain those re-~ 
lationships which will permit it to do well its own unique task with 
young people, and at the same time, to keep in touch with other groups 
and agencies so that co-operative thinking and planning for the good of 
the whole community may take place. 


These relationships are with such bodies as the Montreal Council 
of Social Agencies, the Churches, the Schools, the Religious Education 
Council, the Canadian Camping Association, the War Services Co-Ordinating 
Council, the Montreal Christian Youth Committee, the Youth Bureau and 
various government agencies. 


Our work also requires contact with the Young Women's Christian 
Association for purposes of clearance and co-operation in specific pro-~- 
jects, also with the Y.M.H.A., the NeA.A.J. and other youth organizat- 
fons. We have been happy to supply office space to the Youth Hostel 
Association. 


The Association co-operated actively in the Stanley Jones Miss- 
fon held in November, in Boys! and Girls! Week, in the National Clothing 
Collection, and other community projects. Each Branch had particular 
forms of local co-operation, e.g., the Community Garden League in Verdun 
composed of 400 gardeners, who canned 6,000 cans of produce in the South- 
western Branch canning plant. Space in our Branch buildings was granted 
to 239 organizations during the year, 1272 meetings were held, attended 
by 73,641 persons. 


166 


10. FINANCE AND PROPERTY 


The Annual Financial Campaign with an objective of $140,000. 
was held in November with a final report of $13h,82h. from 4,85 sub- 
seriberse 


The tradition of strong leadership and an effective Campaign 
organization was well maintained. H. M. Mawhinney was General Chair- 
man, Fe W. Miller Chairman of Special Names and Mrs. J. Cecil McDoug- 
all Chairman of Women's Special Names. W. C. Stannard was Chairman 
of Publicity. With experienced Division Chairmen heading a. Teams 
Organization of over 600 workers the Appeal was an outstanding success. 


The buildings and property of the Association continue to be 
subjected to unusual wear and tear, the heavy usage by men and women 
of the Armed Forces having been succeeded by active participation in 
activities by discharged personnel. It has been the policy to take 
care annually of all the essential items of maintenance with the full 
knowledge that certain extraordinary items will require consideration 
when general conditions are more stable. The following major repair 
and decorating items were carried out: completion of decoration of 
Central Branch office section of main lobby; installation of fluorescent 
lighting in College classrooms and offices; completion of delayed 
elevator service contract; re=decoration of Metropolitan Offices, Lib- 
rary: substantial repairs and decorating items in Westmount, North, 
Southwestern and Notre Dame de Grace Branches. Improvements were also 
carried out at Kamp Kanawana, Camp Perrot and Camp Otoreke. 


ll. RESIDENCE 


The capacity of our Stanley Street Residence is 5:7 beds, and 
during the year practically 100% accupancy has been maintained. In 
addition there is accommodation for 6]; men in the North and Westmount 
buildings. 


In all 7,433 different men were in residence, an increase of 
188 over 194-5. The total bed=nights numbered 201,190 compared with 
200,487 a year ago. Of this total, 31,920 were used by members of the 
Armed Forces. The gross residence revenue was $171,7l5«76, an increase 
of $16,190. over a year ago. 


Lie 


12, NATIONAL COUNCIL 


The Montreal Association, as a constituent member of the 
National Council of Y.M.C.A.'s of Canada, has a direct shere in the 
National program, which has many aspects, 


Undoubtedly, the outstanding accomplishment of the National 
Council during the past year was the completion of the Canadian Y.M.C.A, 
Study and the publication of the report "The Years Ahead - A Plan for 
the Canadian Y.M.C.A. in the Next Decade", The report was presented to 
the National Council at a very representative meeting held at Niagara 
Falls, October 1945, Following this official gathering a series of 
local Association conferences were held, from Coast to Coast, and later 
seven Regional Conferences were sponsored by the National Council. While 
all the recommendations of the Study have not proven entirely acceptable 
to Association leaders, there is no doubt but that at no previous time in 
our history has so complete a job of self-analysis been undertaken by the 
Association, - possibly by any other voluntary organization, The results 
have been stimulating and worthwhile. Dr. K, E, Norris, of the Montreal 
staff, was Chairman, and several of our laymen and secretaries served on 
the Study Committee, 


The newly formed National Extension Committee has been actively 
at work, endeavouring to cope with the requests of many communities across 
the country for help in the initiation of plans to meet the leisure-time 
needs of their youth. Several surveys were made, and new Associations 
have been organized at Cornwall, Chatham and Brockwille, while several 
other towns and cities are considering the possibility of organizing, 
A new development has been the formation of Y's Men's Clubs in smaller 
cities where no Y.M.C.A. has yet been developed, 


The Sports College of the Air has had another year of service and 
has maintained the interest of rural, small town and city youth to a re- 
markable degree. This is a joint project of the National Council and the 
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, 


The Canadian Institute of Public Affairs was held as usual at 

' Geneva Park, Lake Couchiching,with a large attendance and a significant 
program, A staff school was held at the same place in August fa three 
weeks, and attracted younger secretaries from all parts of the country, 
many of whom had recently returned from overseas, 


The usual committees and departments of the Council have func- 
tioned helpfully throughout the year, Members of the staff have paid 
' visits to Montreal on many occasions and their assistance has been 
greatly appreciated, 


18, 


13. NATIONAL WAR SERVI CES 


Following the termination of hostilities in the European theatre 
of war, the Canadian Y.M.C.A. found a greatly accelerated demand for its 
entire program of recreation and welfare. Notwithstanding the early 
demobilization of the troops, no supervisors of the Y.M.C.A. were per- 
mitted to return to Canada until the end of the calender year, because 
of their greatly increased responsibilities for program, 


Prior to the surrender of Japan, the Canadian Y.M.C.A. was 
selected as the one National Organization to proceed to the Pacific scene 
with the squadrons of the Royal Canadian Air Force. This Air Force per- 
sonnel did not leave Canada because of the sudden termination of hostil- 
ities following the use of the atomic bomb on Japan, 


Since the beginning of this year the demobilization of troops 
has been so rapid that the Y.M.C.A.'s services, practically terminated 
at home and overseas on March 3lst, 1946. Our work is continuing with 
the Army in Canada until Junc 30th, 1946, and overscas until the last man 
is in the repatriation stream, but the volume of work by comparison with 
the enormous program of the Association, which encircled the globe 
throughout the war, is now on a very small scale indoed. 


As one faces the termination of the War Services activities 
of our organization it is with the realization that the Canadian Y.M.C.A. 
was established in over 5000 centres, literally oncircling the globe, 
that 500 supervisors were engaged in these activitics with 2500 other 
full-time persons, and that 25,000 volunteers worked under the banner of 
the Red Triangle, The program activities were unprecedented in volume 
and tho financial turnover of the Association in this work exceeded 
$50 ,000,000.00, 


19. 


1h. WORLD SERVICE 


The Montreal Association has continued its support of the 
World Service program, conducted for the past 56 years by the North 
American Y.M.C.A's through the International Committee. 


We conducted the annual World Service Appeal in April and 
were able to pledge 89% of our 1945 quota at the end of the special 
effort. By the year's end we were able slightly to exceed our 
objective of $19,000.00 as the following figures indicate: 


1945 


194. 


Metropolitan $13 5292.78 $13 91.09 
Central 2,100.72 2,100,00 
Westmount 650.00 610,00 
Notre Dame de Grace 1,072.29 82h,.00 
North 02.38 376 83 
Southwestern 30.25 302,00 
International 7344.00 370,20 
Sir George Williams 102,00 75.00 
Lachine 167.00 165.00 
Camp Otoreke 169 Ly 157027 
Kamp Kanawana 62.14 79.0% 
Camp Perrot 15.00 - 
$19,072.00 $19,000.32 


In addition the Montreal Association and friends contributed 
$20,000.00 towards the accumulated depression debt of the Internat- 
ional Committee, which was finally liquidated in 195. 


One of the encouraging developments of the year was the in- 
creasing interest and support of the younger members of the Association 
particularly at the camps and in Hi-Y Clubse The Hi-Y boys contribut- 
ed $217.00 earned at their World Service Jamboree, and in addition 
other amounts direct from the Clubs. 


Distinguished visitors to Montreal in the interests of World 
Service during the year were: Frank V. Slack, Executive Secretary of 
the International Committee, Colonel C. Thomas Tchou and Paul Moritz 
of Chinas J. Hartley Fowler, National World Service Secretary, has 
given continual assistance during the year. 


The global nature of the war has created frightful problems 
for the National Y.M.C.A. movements in many countries, and it is a 
great tribute to the vitality of this World Movement that in all 
countries where the war was being carried on the Association has been 
able to maintain itself even though the spark of life at times was in 
danger of being snuffed out. In countries like Poland and Norway, 
Denmark, Holland, Belgium, France, Italy, Greece and other countries 
of the Balkans, the Association was able to carry on at least enough 


20, 


1h. WORLD SERVICE (Cont'd) 


of its work so that when liberation came the Association leaders 
were able to begin the process of reconstruction with at least a 
modicum of their work in progress. In countries like China the 
Y.M.C.A. was able to carry on both in the occupied areas and in 
free China. The situation in countries like the Philippines 
and Korea was particularly difficult due to the complete domin- 
ation of the enemy forces, 


/ 


The ending of the war made possible the re-entry of re- 
presentatives of the International Committee of the Y.M.C.A. 
into several countries from which they had been expelled, although 
it will not be possible for us to return to either Esthonia or 
Latvia. 


The National movements in the war-devastated countries 
suffered grievously - all of them will need the most generous 
assistance which friends of the Movement in North America can 
provide, and the International Convention of the Y.M.C.A's of 
North America, held in Atlantic City in March, was called pri-~ 
marily for the purpose of considering the whole problem of res- 
toration in war-torn countries.e 


15. WORLD'S ALLIANCE OF Y.M.C.A'S 


In February 19L6, for the first time since the summer of 
1939, the Executive Committee of the World's Alliance met in 
Geneva, Switzerland, for a conference of extraordinary signifi- 
cance, at which Canada was officially represented. 


Among the 35 countries represented, several had been under 
foreign occupation for years, cut off from the rest of the world. 
Some delegates had been prisoners of war, others had known the 
fearful hardships of the concentration campe All five continents 
were represented, and detailed reports of the present situation 
in the various national movements were made. 


The important decisions of the Meeting will have a profound 
effect upon the future reconstruction of the world-wide Association 
Movement. They had to do with the proclamation of the Christian 
Message to the world, the extension of the Movement, the enlistment 
and training for leadership, special activity among younger age 
groups, relationships with other world movements, and the organizat- 
ion and direction of the World's Committee. 


In 1949 the Y.M.C.A. began its services to prisoners of war 
on an international, neutral basis of Christian service to prisoners 
on both sides of the conflict. During the past seven years over 600 
camps for prisoners of war and civilian internees, in over 30 count- 
ries on five continents, have been aided and visited by the Y.M.C.A. 
War Prisoners! Aid. The 'Y!t provided equipment for sports - music - 
education - religion « handicrafts - drama - trades training - reading - 
art - writing - hobbies, or for any other means by which the men could 
be helped to forget their miseries. 


be 
16. SECRETARIAL PERSONNEL 


John W. Beaton, General Secretary, while continuing to carry 
important duties in this Association, also acted as Senior Secretary 
for National Y.M.C.A. War Services. A, W. Kemball, absent on leave 
sinee 1942 for employment with Y.M.C.A, War Services, and latterly 
manager of the Beaver Club in London, England, returned from overseas 
and resumed his duties as Executive Secretary of Southwestern Branch 
in January 1946, WJ. Holliday, absent on leave with Y.M.C.A. War 
Services, and who went overseas early in 1940, returned to Canada late 
in 1945, He was appointed Secretary for Christian Emphasis, involving 
relationships with all the Branches, 


W. J. G. Macdiarmid, on leave of absence with Y.M.C.A. War 
Services, who went overseas in December 1939, and is at present Senior 
Secretary for War Services in the United Kingdom, has accepted the 
position of Executive Secretary of Toronto Central Y,M.C.A. to take 
effect September first, and has therefore tendered his resignation 
from the Montreal Association, W. A, Buckley, also absent on leave 
with Y.M.C.A. War Services, resigned from tho Montreal staff to become 
General Secretary at Kingston, Ontario. 


Additions during the year included: R.A. O'Brien to International 
Branch as Boys’ Work Secretary; A. Ross Seaman from R.C,A.F. to Community 
Secretary, Point St. Charles; Miss Joy Powles to Notre Dame de Grace as 
Women and Girls York Secretary, Don T, Marks from Y.M.C.A. War Services 
to Notre Dame de Grace as Program Secretary; Stanley Liversidge from 
Y.M.C.A, “War Services to Central, Membership Secretary; Albert Humphreys 
to Southwestern as Acting Boys' Work Secrotary; Cameron Gorrie from 
Y.M.C.A, War Services to Central, Boys' Work Secretary. 


Walter Harris of Southwestern Branch, resigned to become Boys' 
Work Secretary at Regina, Saskatchewan, 


Ruben Sacttone, Boys’ Work Secretary at Montevideo, Uruguay, 
spent about six months on the Montreal staff as a Fellowship Secretary, 
through an arrangement entered into jointly by the International 
Committce and the Montroal Y.M.C.A. His purpose was to study boys' 
work in Montreal and Eastern Canada and his visit was mutually beneficial 
to our Association and, we hope, to the Movement in South America, 


22. 


17. APPRECIATION 


There are many factors which combine to make possible a 
successful year's work in the Y.M.C.A. We are grateful to the many 
friends who have contributed generously of their financial resources; 
to the members of Boards and Committees for their frequent counsel, 
guidance and services; to the many volunteers who have served as 
friendly counsellors of clubs and boys in camp; coaches and instruct- 
ors; interviewers; teachers; ministers; to the Press; the members of 
the gymnasium and swimming Leaders' Corps; the staff; to the Churches; 
the Woments Auxiliaries; the Montreal Council of Social Agencies, 
Railway and other corporations; the Young Women's Christian Association, 
and many other co-operating agencies, As we reach the end of our War 
Services, we feel that special reference should be made to the unique 
and devoted service of over 1500 women volunteers who have worked so 
effectively in our Branches and the Red Triangle Club during the past 
six and one half years in behalf of our mem and women in the Services, 
They have provided a kind of influence and a type of service that only 
women can supply. To all of thom we tender our heartfelt thanks. 
Above all, we are in humility grateful to God for his blessing and 
power, 


18, OBITUARIES 


We record with sorrow the passing of a number of friends of 
the Association: 


For many years George A. Ross was a valued member, first of 
the Metropolitan Board and later of the Advisory Board, a helpful 
counsellor in relation to general property and financial matters and a 
generous contributor to the Association work, As the senior partner 
of the firm of Ross and Macdonald, under whose direction the Central, 
Westmount, North and Notre Dame de Grace buildings were erected, the 
Young Men's Christian Association of Montreal had the benefit of his 
rich experience and sound judgement, 


F, N, Southam had made an outstanding contribution to the 
Y.M.C.A, through the years, Mr. Southam's helpful relation to the 
Association dated back at least to the period of the first Great War 
in connection with the initiation of our community work at that time, 
None had taken a more intelligent interest in the Foreign Work of the 
Y.M.C.A, of which work he was a most generous supporter, 


Other friends who have passed away during the year inelude: 


Si) Hy Ry Bush HE, Liersch, Sr Prof. H.E, Reilley 
F,. J. Campbell C, S. Mitchell Dr. H. S. Shaw 
Miss Jean Crombie Chas. E, Moyle D. S, Whittall 

A. P, S. Glassco J. Austin Murphy Mrs, C,T, Williams 
Rev. F,W, Kerr, DD, Rev. E.L. Pidgeon, DD, J. T. Wilson 


fF, P. LG, Lane BE. Ravel r Fred Wray. 


23. 
19, CONCLUSION 


In summary, it may be said that the year under review has been 
one of continuous re-adjustment on the part of the Association, We have 
had literally thousands of our members returning to us after years of 
absence, Our secretarial staff changes have been many and there are 
still some gaps to fill. A good beginning has been made in strengthening 
our committee organization, Much more new volunteer leadership must 
be enlisted and trained if the Association is to measure up to its op- 
portunities, 


We are entitled to take considerable satisfaction in the pro» 
gress made in our efforts to build up program and participation in the 
important 15-24 year-old group. While our developments in co-educational 
activities are a matter for satisfaction also, we should pay special 
attention in the immediate future to our program and services for young 
men, which is by Constitution our primary responsibility. 


We must actively engage in the implementation of the findings 
of the Canadian and Montreal Y.M.C.A, Studies, so that wo may profit by 
the experionce of the past and thus more adequately face the future, 


In closing, we quote from the resolutions of the 45th Inter- 
national Convention of North American Associations held at Atlantic City 
in March, - the first in fourteen years, when they faced their respon- 
sibilitics and opportunitics in the present world setting. 


"The world of which we are a part and in which we must live 
and serve has beon shaken to its very foundation and presénts 
an aspect of unpreécdented confusion and cross purposes, 
with its vory destiny hinging upon choices which must be made 
without delay, Moral and spiritual valucs have been under~ 
mined and woakened during past years, but at the same time 
they have been validated as never before in the heroie re- 
sistance of countless numbers and they are recognized as 
never before as the indispensable foundation of a new age, 

An opportunity to rise up and build a bettor world has been 
bought for us by the suffering and dcath of millions of our 
fellow men, which but lays more heavily upon us the respons- 
ibility for a supreme effort to justify their sacrifice." 


24, 
19, Continued 


"We record our deep sense of gratitude that during these 
recent years of testing, destructive and divisive as they 
have been, the ties of friendship in the Young Men's 
Christian Association across the world have been unbroken 
and have emerged strengthened and clarified, We are 
thankful that this world-wide organization of great in- 
fluence exists at this time with its potentialities of 
world fellowship and service." 


“Wo affirm our conviction - 


That the message of the Christian Gospel upon which the 
¥.M,C.A, was founded and by which it has been guided through- 
out its history is addressed to mankind's present needs, 
individual and social. 


That peace, freedom and abundance cannot ultimately be 
achieved through force but by the spiritual resources of 
intelligence and good will. Not by might, or power, milit- 
ary or economic, but by the spirit of the living God ex- 
pressed through the lives of men can peace come to the earth." 


May this be the motivating conviction of the Montreal Association 
as it enters its 96th year. 


Respectfully submitted, 


General Secretary pro tem, 


25. 
STATISTICAL RECORD FOR 195 


VOLUNTEER SERVICE: Persons Attendance 
VoLluntesr jeroup Leaders) ss\es sate eus © eneletiels ele 328 
On Boards, Committees & Councils essscreceses 15350 
Attendance at meetings LSy lel 
HEALTH AND PHYSICAL FITNESS: 
Gymnasium activities...eTotal participation 158,78 
Swimming: Classes & Individuals.... Total " 104,234, 
Athletic Events ........Total participation 69,119 


Persons taught to SWIM eesesesseeeeseeeveses, 2,189 
Swimming & Lifewsaving tests eesessseseseseee 1,851 


Teams, Leagues, Rinks & Playgrounds h8,l12 
SOCIAL RECREATION: 

Dramatic & Musical Events ...Total attendance 2,576 

Crafts & Hobbie siecscdencen |" 35,303 

Dances, Parties and Social Affairs Tot. ' 89 ,602 

Motion Pictures,Indoors & Outdoors " " 755157 


RELIGIOUS EDUCATION: 
Meetings, Study Groups, Chapel. Total attendance 11,583 


SUMMER CAMPS : 
Fanawane for Bove sseceisesens ee Noe of campers 52h 


Otoreke for Young People e...e5 / 931 
Perrot for Boys and Girle esse. "- " fh 
Total camp-days, 211 camps 31,8h5 


City Day Camps (seven) «.....+.eNoe of campers 1,2h5 


PERSONAL PROBLEMS : 
Number of Interviews @eeeevevevreevoneeevn eee eeu veaee 5,811 
Persons placed in employment esecsssssceceees 96 


CLUBS AND GROUPS: 
Number of Clubs Interest Groups eessssesreeer 328 
Meetings: Boys, Girls, Young People Total attend. 85,03 
Total Enrollment in all Groups, Classes, Teams, 
Councils, etce..... 18,292 


INFORMAL EDUCATION: 


Lectures, Forums, Study Groups, etCesssessree 26 826 
Tring, Outings, CEC evveccssnccevveseecscerrececs 8,19 
Labraries csivccrersecccvens sock Ciroulation 7,91 


FORMAL EDUCATION: 
Sir George Williams College...No. of Students 3,851 
No. of Classes 103 - Noe of Student Hours .... 608 ,937 


COMMUNITY SERVICES: 
Use of 'Y' Buildings by outside organizations. 239 
Noe of GLINOH)| lieve -wiwiw oe (ere 6 /elere Bere 


Estimated attendance of non-members .wserceceves 73,01 


