THE NINETY-SIATH ANNUAL EZPORT 
OF THE 


YOUNG  MBIT'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 


YAR ENDING MARCH 318ST, 1947, 


-o0000- 


GREATEST 
RESOURCE 


PRINTED IN U,8.A 


THE NINETY-SIXTH ANNUAL REPORT 
OF THE 
YOUNG MGN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 


FOR THs YEAR ENDING MARCH 31ST, .1947, 


mee 


Pursuant to the provision of the Constitution there is present- 
ed herewith the 96th Annual Report of the Young Men's Christian Association 
of Montreal. 


The report reviews the first twelve month period of peace 
since our 1938-39 report. It was a year of re-adjustment and re- 
organization after the stresses and strains of the long period of War. 


As might be expected the chief social factors affecting the 
work of our organization, grew directly out of the abnormal conditions 
of wartime, 


Youth delinquency has increased to an alarming degree and 
undoubtedly is related to certain conditions which the war inevitably 
developed, Many young people have become unsettled and disturhed, yot 
unduly independent, resulting, in its milder manifestation, in a certain 
irresponsibility, and in its more oxtreme form in a hoodlumism at times 
verging on the vicious, 


The acute housing shortago, nation-wido in extent has created 
social problems, involving many young poople and which if not soon ro- 
medied will have accentuated cortain maladjustments which will take gon- 
erations to ovoercomo, 


Employment has beon at an all-timo high, with youth especially 
in groat domand for a wide varioty of opportunitics at remunerativo ratos 
far in excess of anything heretofore experioncod. Tho consequent chall- 
onge to all organizations concorned with the loisuro timo of young people 
has nevor been groator, 


The fact that 55,000 Canadian youth wore in attcndanco at 
institutions of higher cducation during the past year is an added chall- 
enge to socioty, 


In the carly part of the yoar undor review considerable time 
and attontion on tho part of both staff and laymen were directed towards 
re-thinking our programme and ro-cstablishing tho prioritios upon which 
our work should be based, This was closely related to the findings of 
the Canadian ¥.M,0.A. Study and of the Montroal ¥.M.O.A. Study. 


With the ond of our War Sorvices, wo were ablo to strengthon 
our staff, which had bcon soriously reducod, in mcoting that omergency. 
Effort was directed towards cnlarging our Boards:and OCommittec porsonucl, 
and in this wo wore happy to cnlist the service and support of many 
vetcrans, At the same time, we wore ongagod in tho assimilation of 
hundreds of returned men into mombership. 


Among the more substantial achicvomonts of the year has beon 
the devclopment of our non-cquipmont work in the Hastorm End and South- 
western Sections of the City including Montreal East, Terminal Park, 
Maisouneuve and Hochclaga, Orawford Park, Cote St. Paul and Ville Emard, 


In considering this report, it should be undorstood that 
complete accounting of thcir activitics is givon in the reports presont- 
ed at the Annual Moctings of our various Branches. This roport therc- 
fore will deal with matters of more genoral interest which affcct tho 
Montreal Association as a whole, 


Be PROGRAMME 


The Y.M.C.A. conducts such a wide variety of activities for so 
many different people, it is essential in an Annual review to restate our 
basic purpose. Speaking in general terms, these are some of the ways tho 
'y' works with youth: 

It provides recreational opportunities for children, tecn- 

age youth and young adults in a variety of indoor and 

outdoor activities, and points the way to a wise use of 

leisure time, 


It helps young people to maintain hoalth and physical 
fitness - gain skill in personal relationships - and 
develop qualities of leadership. 


It seeks to help them understand themselves and the world 
in which they live and make right personal choices in life, 


It aids youth to take responsibility for planning and 
conducting their own activities through youth councils, 
committees, club groups and. to join with others in cormm- 
unity service. 


It holps thom to bocome good citizens by practicing 
co-operation, by discussion of issues involved in group, 
comunity, national and world living, and by learning the 
fundamontals of donocratic citizenship. 


It challenges them to explore the meaning of Ohristian 
principlcs in every day life, and holps them to achicvo a 
sustaining and courageous religious faith, 


In the following bricf paragraphs we can do little more then list 
some of the hundreds of prograrme items of tho past year, involving many 
thousands of persons, in all parts of Greater Montreal, 


In planning our prograrzie cortain emphases have bocn kept in mind: 
(1) To continue to give spocial attention to tho 18-24 age group, recognized 
today as the one most in necd of guidance and direction; (2) To exporiment 
further in co-cducational activities; (3) To extend our non-equi pnent 
cormunity work; (4) To strongthen our contacts with the primary institutions - 
the Horne, the School and the Ghurch, 


Continuod 


BOYS AND GIRLS” PROGRAMME 


(1) Building Activities: In the Oentral Branch on Drummond Street, 
serving people from all parts of Greator Montroal; Westmount Branch 
on Shorbrooke Street, serving Westmount, Eastem Notre Dane de Graca, 
and St. Honri; North Branch, serving the North End, Outremont and 

the Town of Mount Royal; Notre Dame de Grace Branch, serving Notre 
Dame de Grace, Montreal West and Hampstead; Southwestern Branch, ser- 


ving Verdun, Crawford Park, Cote St, Paul and Ville Emard; International 


Branch, serving new Canadians from all parts of the City; a well- 
rounded programme has been provided through organized clubs for both 
boys and girls, gymnasium classes, swimming instruction, atheletics, 
handicrafts, game tournaments, hockey and basketball leagues, 


(2) Non-Equipment Community Work: A most encouraging development 
may be reported in districts where the Association has no buildings 
of its own. This has been made possible through the valuable co- 
operation of school boards and church officials who have loaned their 
buildings and playgrounds, These Branches and outposts included: 


Lachine and Ville St. Pierre’ - through the continued co- 
operation of the school board, two teen-agers clubs and 
other weckly programmes have becn conducted in the high and 
elomcntary schools, Ohildren from Ville LaSalle and Dorval 
also participated in the Vacation Club, 


Point St. Charlos - the 'Y' Centre was located in Lorne f 
School, with an office for the secretary, a social and game 
room, uso of the gymnasium and playground for leagues, 


classes, crafts, clubs and other activities. 


Cote St, Paul - The Connaught School is used every 
Saturday aftcrnoon for boys of the district for gymnastics, 
group games and indoor sports, 


Rosemount - the 'Yt is located in space made available 

in Rosemount School, There is an office for the secretary, 
and a large social and gamc room, The gymnasium is used 
on schedule, during the winter, and supervised play and 
gemes are conducted throughout the summer months, 


Montreal Hast - Pte. Aux Trembles: Activities are car- 
ricd on in the Montreal East School basement, assembly 
halls and in the Church Hall, 


Terminal Park - Physicel activities, crafts and social 
recreational programmes for teen-age boys and girls were 
conducted in the United Church Hall, 


24 


Continucd 


Hocholaga - Maisonncuve - A limitca programms consisted of 
Gra-Y, crafts, and physical activitios in the Sarah Maxwell 
school gymnasium two cvonings weckly for oldcr boys. 


Jcan Talon District: Using tho Peaco Ccntennial. School, a 
programme including badminton, Saturday night toen=age club 
and gymaasium classes, was conducted throughout tho ycar, 


(3) Hobby Shows were held in two Branches, Southwestern and Westmount, 
A Board of some 50 boys and girls directed the Westmount Show, which 
included 13 departments to encourage hobbyists of many kinds, 


(4) Summer Vacation Clubs were conducted during July and August 
at ten branches, - Central, North, Westmount, Notre Dame de Grace, 

Southwestern, Montreal East, International, Rosemount, Lachine and 
Point St. Charles, with a total of 1379 boys and girls registered, 


(5) 14 Hi-¥ and Jr, Hi-clubs operated during the year, including 
four for girls, The purpose is to “create, maintain and extend high 
Standards of Christian character in school and community", through 


the personal devolopment of the members and service in the schools, 


(6) _The Gra-¥ Club movement has shown a slight growth and might 
be expanded further if leadership were available, 


(7) Teen-Age Clubs for older teen-age boys and girls havo been 
conducted in all branches and outposts, 13 in all,., 


(8)  Leadors Oorps were active in Central, North and Westmount 
Branches, Leadership training of a less formal type has been 
provided in all Branches, 


(9) Employed Boys' Clubs were successfully conducted in Central 
and Southwestern Branchos. 


YOUNG ADULTS PROGRAMME: 


(i) Informal Education: A great variety of activities wore conducted 
4 es a ORO Re a ae . 
in Our various branchos, These included: 


(a) Arts and Crafts sponsored by Contral Branch included 
leatherwork, weaving, woodwork, photography, bookbind- 
ing, painting and drawing, pottery, jewelry and motal- 
work, plastics. Workshops and competont instructors wore 
provided. Two exhibitions wore held. Other branches 
had similar but less extensive programmes, Southwestern 
Branch conductod two serics of classes in dressmaking for 
women, 


\0)} Diseussion Groups, leetures and addresses, Citizen 
Forum listening groups, debates and public speaking 
were foatured, The Annual So-cd serics in Central and 
Southwestern Branches drew large enrolments, 


Bie Continued 


(c) Language Classes in English and French for beginners 
and advanced pupils were conducted in Central and 
International Branches, 


(ad) Dramatics were sponsored in Southwestern and Central 
Branches and Otoreke campers staged a production at 
Victoria Hall on two evenings, 


(e) Preparation for Marriage Oourses drew a large enrol- 
ment at Central, Westmount and Southwestern Branches, 


(f)* Music Appreciation in many forms was encouraged, es- 
pecially through a group at Central Branch and another 
at Otoreke, 


(g) Our three largest Libraries - College, Oentral and 
Southwestern had a combined circulation of 47,881 during 
the year, Magazines and newspapers were available in 
Branch reading rooms, | 


(2) Physical Recreation: The Y.M.C.A.'s health and fitness progrannes 
have these three primary purposes: The development and maintenance of 
health and fitness of body and mind in early youth and through adult life; 
Fun through participation in recreational sports and games; Mastery of 
skills in using one's own body efficiently - in keeping physically fit, 
and in developing the ability to teach others how, 


(a) Indoor Activities included gymnasium classes for all 
ages and both sexes,gymnastics, calisthenics, basket- 
ball, badminton, tumbling, boxing, wrestling, fencing, 
weight-lifting, swimming and life-saving, jiu-jitsu, 
Central Weight-Lifting Club had over 400 members, 


(b) Outdoor Activities included, skating, hockey, skiing, 
tonnis, baseball, rugby, picnics, sloigh drives and 
ice carnivals, On Southwestern playground summer activ- 
ities included 186 events with ageregate participation 
of over 2,000, The Notre Dame de Grace playground was 
used daily for a varicty of activities all summer, 
During the winter skating participation totalled 10,298, 


(c) Oompetition was provided through house leagues in basket- 
ball, volleyball and hockey, badminton and tennis tourna- 
ments, Central and North Branchos,. participated in tho 
Provincial Championships which were revived last year, 
Branch teams participated in the Juvenile, Junior and 
Intermediate sections of the City Basket Ball League, 

An Inter-¥ basket ball league with three sections en- 
couraged competitiom in all Branches, Oentral staged 
the Provincial Wrestling Championships. Weight-Llifting 
and Swinming Championships were also held, 

\ 


7. 


6. Continued 


(da) Swimming deserves special reference in view of the 
large place it occupies in our five Branches with swimm- 
ing pools and at our three summer camps. Through re- 
gular instruction classes for beginners and special 
swimming canpaigng for school children, the following 
results were achieved: 


Number given swimming lessons ......... 4470 
Number passed Beginner's Test .......e06 3756 
Number passed other swimming Tests ..... 735 
Number passed life-saving Tests .....e0. 166 
Number given life-saving Lessons ...... 590 


Inter-¥ Swimming Meets, Ladies Marathon Swims, Swim-to-the- 
Sea for Boys, Progressive Swim Mects, Fancy Swimming 
Exhibitions, all had an important part in maintaining 
interest throughout the season, Oentral and North Branches 
held memberships in the 0.A.S.A, Seven swimming clubs 
operated in the Branches, 


(e) The ¥,M.C.A. Ski Club again had a successful season with the 
rented Club House at Christieville occupied to full capa- 
city most week-ends, On several occasions many skiers 
could not be accommodated, The Club hed 100 members and 
560 different individuals used the lodge, The annual Intor-Y 
Ski Mect drew a strong entry list as usual. Southwestern 
organized an active Branch Ski Club, 


(3) Social Recreation was provided in all branches, through such informal 
games as table tennis, billiards, checkers and chess, Banquets, suppers 
and refreshments wore among the means used to add the social clement, 
Co-educational activities of many kinds were conducted, including dances, 
splash partios, picnics and Outings. Special New Year's Eve dances wore 
held at Notre Dame de Grace and Westmount Branches, The Annual New Yoar's 
Reception was held at Central Branch, 


(4) The Residents! Council composed of representatives elected by the 
550 residents of the Central Building was re-organized and assumod 
responsibility for a varicty of activities in behalf of their group. 


CB} Citizenship: Reference should be made to the Special programme 
conducted by International Branch to encourage and give recognition to 
new Oanadians, Fifteen members of the Branch received their citizen- 
ship papers at an evening event, were addressed by Judge T.J. Coonan, 
and were presented by the Board with copies of "A Pocketful of Canada”, 


Continued 
ORGANIZED CAMPING: 
(a) Camp Otoreke: Our camp for young men and women on Lake 


St. Joseph, near St. Agathe, enjoyed another successful season, 
1027 young people including 116 married couples registered during 


. the three months of operation, with a total attendance of el OO 


camper-days, The programme included the usual camp activities of 
swimming, canoeing, tennis, volleyball, picnics, horse-shoes, camp- 
fires, dances, Sunday Chapel Services, music appreciation hour, 
dramatics, regattas, treasure hunts, and sailing. Canoe trips were 
conducted weekly, from four to twelve days in length and 143 young 
men and young women participated. These outings proved very popular 
and further developments are to be expected. 


Considerable voluntary work was done on Blueberry Island, one 
of the three Islands owned by us, clearing away the trees and underbush 
for a new playfield, Woodcarving classes in midsummer proved popular 
with many campers, During the winter months, several camp re-unions, 
the Annual Church Servicc, and a camp production staged at Victoria 
Hall were between-season events which kept the campers in touch with 
each other, 


(o) Kamp Kanawana: Our boys' camp noar St, Sauveur in the Laurentians 
enjoyed its 63rd season, 302 different boys attended for a total of 
1150 camper-weeks, during the cight week camp period, The polio* 
epidemic affected attendance for the last half of tho season, although 
most doctors advised parents that conditions at camp wore mao favor- 
able for children than were those in tho city. <A capable staff of 
trained boys’ workors gave leadership, assisted by a fine group of tont 
counsellors, many of whom wore young veterans. A resident doctor and 
two nurses took care of tho health of campers, 


Boating, sailing, swimming, campcraft, life-saving, handicrafts, 
over-night hikes, canoc trips, chapol sorvices, amateur night, talks 
by visitors, wore among the rogular programme features. 


Considerablo use was made of tho camp property during the wintor 
for skiing, Hightoon boys and leaders spent a weck at camp during tho 
Christmas vacation, and 45 boys in sevoral small partics spent week-ends 
enjoying the skiing on the hills sround camp, 


(e) Camp Perrot: Our new near-the-city camp on Ile Perrot operated 
for its third season, 166 boys attended during their six-weck period 
and 90 girls during their thres-wock period, a total of 256 campers for 
572 camper-wecks, 


Permanent platforms were erected for the tents, sleeping bunks 
were installed, tho barn was repaired and made suitable for rainy day 
use, and a carpentry shop was set up. The camp garden proved interest- 
ing to many, 


The programic included swimning, boating, baseball, volleyball, 
hikes, camp-fires, sing-songs, stunt nightsS, vespors, Sunday Ser- 
vices, etc, \ 


3 SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS COLLEGE AND SCHOOLS 


Continued growth in enrolment, oxpansion of personnel and fac- 
ilitics, and an overwhclming emphasis upon the education of the veteran, 
have been the keynotes in a year of intense activity in Sir George Williams 
College and Schools, At a time when most cducational institutions in 
the country have been pressed to the utmost, the contribution of the 
College to the educational emergency has been outstanding. 


In all units of the College and Schools veterans were given 
priority in enrolment, with the result that almost 2000 ex-service per- 
sonnel were included in the 5254 men and women who constituted the total 
student body, and that more than half tho College's Day Division were vetorans, 


The College has conducted its progranme the past yaar in five 
buildings. Besides its main plant in the Central building it has used an 
eight-room annex on Drummond Street; it has conducted its special Veterans' 
College Preparatory curriculum in a separate four-storey building on 
Claremont Avenue in Westmount; it has held classes six mornings each week in 
Stefenson Hall of Emmanuel United Ohurch; and during the second term it be-~ 
gan to occupy its new Annex on Stanley Street. This new annex represents 
an important improvemerit in facilities, not only for the accommodation of 
student veterans but for other students as well, 


Enrolment in the five units of the Oollege and Schools, cumulative 
for the acadomic year 1946-47, has been as follows: 


A. Winter Term, 1946-47: Day Evening 

Division Division Total 
College (Faculty of Arts, ) 835 1428 2263 

Science & Commerce) 

Evening High School - 1005 1005 
Evening Elementary School ~ 98 98 
Business School 252 767 1019 
Art School 100 BLS 312 
Claremont Div. (Vets'Prep. ) BOT ~ 557 


Total Winter Term 1744 5510 5254 


B. Summer Term, 1946; 


College (Faculty of Arts, ) 116 547 663 
Science & Commerce) 

Schools' Units (Drummond St.) 76 503 579 

Claremont Div. (Vets’ Prep.) 780 - 780 


10, 


Big Continued 


The significance of these enrolment figures becomes apparent 
when it is realized that during the past year the student body of the 
College and Schools has been no less than three times that of the last 
pre-war year, and that the College alone (the Faculty of Arts, Science 
and Commerce) in its Day Division has increased to five times its pre- 
war registration, 


The steady growth of Sir Gcorge Williams College and Schools 
throughout the past two decades is indicated by a comparison of this 
year's winter term registration of 5254, with that of 1238 students in 
1936-57, 808 in 1926-37, and 500 in 1921-22, 


It is now eightcen years since the inaugeration of the first 
colloge-grade instruction in the College, and twelve years since the 
expansion of what was then the Junior College into a four-year Senior 
College. In that time almost 400 bachelors? degrees havs been awarded, 
and the Faculty of Arts Science and Commerce has developed into a College 
of 855 day students, and 1428 evening students, as indicated in the table 
above, At the graduation ceremony in May, 1946, 89 degrees and 60 dip- 
lomas were awarded, The importance of this work and the extent of its 
growth are strong confirmation of the policy which led originally to the 
establishment of this service for the young people of Montreal, 


4, PERSONAL SERVICE: 


(a) Residence Rooms in the Stanley Stroot building showed an 
Occupancy of almost 100% for the year, The total number of beds 
available was 559, and the total numbor of bed-nights was 203,205, 
compared with 201,190 a year ago. In all 8,595 different men were 
in residence and it has been nocessary to maintain a waiting list 
throughout the year, 


There is accommodation for 64 men in the Westmount and North 
Branch buildings which was usod to capacity during the year. 


(b) Counselling and Guidance have always been primary functions of 
the Association, Porsonal interviews with young people have dealt 
with a groat varicty of problems such as education, marriage, em- 
ployment, lack of friends, relation with tho Church, home relation- 
ships, the meaning of life, finances, choice of life work, and many 
others arising in the process of growth and related to the adjustmonts 
required of youth, 


(c) Service to the Public is expected from the Association and 
given to the best of our ability and within the limits of our re- 
sources. The main location for this public survice is the office 

and lobby of our Central building, During the year our help has 

been sought chicfly in assisting young mon in securing room acconmnoda-— 
tion, when we have been unable to accommodate them ourselves, 

This appreciated Rooms Registry servico has involved the listing of 
hundreas of rooms and innumerablo "phone calls, Much information of a 
general type is requested by newcomers or strangers to the City aad is 
cheerfully supplied, 


aig 


Do, ACHIEVING THE ASSOCIATION PURPOSE: 


Maintaining the Christian emphasis in Association programme 
and the constant examining of all our activities in terms of the 
Association purpose have been matters for serious attention throughout 
the year, A Secretary has devoted his full time to this important 
effort, co-operating with all the branches, the College and the three 
camps whenever possible, Early in the year a citywide conference was 
held, attended by over one hundred leaders from the Branches, who 
critically examined our present programme in the light of our Christian 
purpose, under the inspiring leadership of Dr. Charles W. Bishop of Ottawa, 
Most Branches have Christian Emphasis Committees, with the aim of main- 
taining a strong "core" of religious purpose and meaning at the centre of 
our programme, 


Of course, some activities have more directly contributed toward 
the Association's stated purposo of building Christian persons and a 
Christian Socicty. These included: Bible classes, induction services of 
Hi-¥Y, Gra-¥, Phalanx and other groups, special board chapel services, 
noon-hour students chapel services, series of Lenten services, special 
chapel servicos at Christmas and Easter, observance of Week of Prayer, 
Sunday services at the three camps, Sunday Fireside Hour, Sunday musicale, 
earol services at the Ohristnas season, staging of the Nagivity play, var- 
ious projects for the loss fortunate, the Good Friday decision meeting (at 
Notre Demc de Gracc), the Wostnount Noon-hour Fellowship group and other 
events, 


Anongst the special ovents of the year which inevitably en- 
larged the horizons of those who attended and increased their effcective- 
ness as Christian leaders were: The Young Peoples' Conference held in 
April, ‘the Regional Hi-Y Conference at Ottawa, the Hi-Y Officers" Conforence 
at Camp Perrot, the Girls ‘Hi-Y Conference at Notre Dame de Grace, the 
Older Boys' Oonforenee at Cornwall, the Second Canadian Hi-Y Assembly at 
Couchiching attended by six Montreal representatives, the Annual World 
Service Hi-¥ Rally addressed by Rev, K.H. Ting and attended by nearly 300 
boys and girls, the Annual Otoreke Camp Ohurch Service at Oalvary United 
Church, 


Throughout the year tho Chapel in the Central building has 
performod a necessary and useful function, It has been open from 9:30 a.m, 
daily for private meditation and prayer, and in addition has been used 
for a variety of special services, organ recitals and inductions, referred 
to above, 


att MEMBERSHIP: 


The total membership in tho Montreal Association is slightly 
greater than a year ago, On March 3lst our paid membership was 14,873, 
compared with 14,198 a year ago, the increase being 675 persons, It will 
be seen from the table below that the increase is chiefly in Central and 
the Eastern Community Branchcs, In addition there are still a consider- 
able number of veterans holding six months complimentary memberships - 824 
this year, compared with 3,425 a year ago, 


12. 


Gi. Continued 


The number of members in the various Branches as at March 31st 
was as follows: 


1947 1946 1939 

Central 4,930 4,055 2,929 

Sir George Williams College 4,961 5,527 1,404 
Southwestern - 1,396 1,348 998 
Notre Dame de Grace 1,181 Liven 921 
North 1,223 1.256 852 
Westmount 509 589 760 

Fi International 650 543 283 
Lachine 204 206 122 
Eastern 605 180 297 


15,659 14,865 8,566 


Less duplications 786 667 
Grand Total — 14,873 14,198 8,566 


The above figures do not include Sumer, skating, tennis, camp 
and other seasonal and short-term members, which number about 3,000 in the 
year, nor do they include many hundreds reached through our community 
groups who pay no membership fee, 


For purposes of the Annual Year Book an analysis was made of 
our ma@abership at January first and revealed sone facts of interest:- 


Our total membership is divided 75% male, and 25% female. 
In 1944 the proportions were 65% and 35% respectively, This indicates a 
re-adjustment which was to be expected following the end of the tar and 
return of young men in large numbers, 


The break-down by ages showed 12% are 14 years and under, 
15% are 15 to 17 years, 43% are 18 to 24 years, 17% are 25 to 29 years, 
and 13% are 30 years and over, Tho fact that 87% of our total membership 
is under 30 years is Significant, 


A reasonable estimate of the total number of mombers and other 
participants in our activities during the past year would be over 25,000 
persons, 


The press, radio, printed material and our own "YMCA News" have 
been used to advantage in keeping our work before our mombors and the general 
public, 


7. RELATIONSHIPS IN THE COMMUNITY: 


The Association has recognized the importance of maintaining a 
close relationship with such primary institutions as the Home, the School 
and the Church. It realizes this as a mtual necessity if the greatest 
possible benefit is to aceruc to the youth with whom we all are concerned, 


13. 
ie Continucd 


(a) The Homes: A diroct attempt has bocn made to bring 
our programme into close touch with the homes, through 
parents! nights with demonstrations of our work, parents 
discussion groups, many interviews with parents and 
visits to homes, Other home co-operation included: two 
nursery schools, evonts for married couples, parent 
education series, lectures to parents, family events, etc, 


Fathers have served on boys' work and camp 
committecs. Mothers have acted as chaperones and spon- 
soring committoes of teen-age Clubs, 


Courses on preparation for marriage have en- 
rolled large numbers of young people, and are a long-term 
contribution to the strongthening of family life, 


(b) The Schools: Elsewhcre in this report reference is made 
to the splondid co-operation of school authorities in 
making possible the use of school equipment after school 
hours for our community programme, On our part we have 
enaeavored to make a contribution to schools, giving 
addresses at Home and School Associations and through 
co-opcration with parents and teachers in dealing with 
truancy, help in organizing sports and play periods, cam- 
paigns for swimming instruction of school children, guest 
days for particulor schools, co-operation in finding 
childron in nuced of camp experience, and in many other ways, 


(¢) The Ghurehes: Our relationships with the churches have 
been most cordial and on many occasions we have been able 
to render active assistance to their work, This ms in- 
cluded: use of our Association buildings for young peoples’ 
socials, splash parties, scouts swim tests, organizing and 
conducting loadership training courses, Sunday School swims, 
use of camp property for picnics, talks and demonstrations 
to many groups, co-operation in conduct of New Year's Eve 
Dance, 


“usher bodies with which wo have helpful relationships in- 
clude the Montreal Council of Social Agencies, the Religious 
#ducation Council, the Community Garden League, the 

Canedian Camping Association, youth organizations such as the 
Y.WeC.A., the Y.M.H.A., the N.A.A.J<. and the Youth Hostel 
Association, Space in our Branch buildings was granted to 
el5 organizations during the year, 1088 meetings were held, 
attended by an ostimated 77,872 persons, 


8, FINANCE AND PROPARTY COMMITTER: 


The Annual Financial Campaign having an objective of $140,000.00 
was held in Novembor with a final report of $145,593.00, Gifts were ro- 
ecived from over seven thousand individuals and corporations, the largest 
number ever recorded in a Maintcnanceo Appeal, 


14, 
8, Continued 


The effective leadership of H.M. Mawhinney as General Chair- 
man, F.W, Miller as Chairman of Special Names, Mrs. H,M, Long as Chairman 
of the Women's Special Names, together with a strong teams organization 
of experienced Division Chairmen and workers and an excellent Publicity 
Programme under W.C, Stannard, combined to make the Campaign a signal 
success, 


The heavy usage of the Association facilities during the war 
by mombers of tho armed services has been roplaced by a wider and more 
active participation by our mombers with little if any diminution in 
depreciation of buildings and equipment, It has beon our policy, however, 
to deal annually with essential itoms of maintenanco and to defer only 
thosc matters which can await moro favorablo conditions without impair- 
ing programme activitics, In addition to rountine decorations, repairs 
and replacomonts, the following major items wore carried out:- Replace- 
mont of roof and romoval of cortain skylights in Drummond Strect Building, 
replacement of stair treads leading from second floor to College office, 
complete renovation of Budge Hall, replacoment of dish washing equipment 
and Goffce urns in tho Cafctoria, oxtensivo boiler repairs including re- 
placoment of tubes at Westmount Branch, replacoment of hot water tank, paint- 
ing exterior of building, major intcrior decorating and installation of 
gymnasium heating unit at Southwosteorn Branch, installation tonnis court 
lighting at Notre Damo do Graco Branch, important plumbing and decorating 
at North Branch, and substantial additions to equipment at Camp Perrot, 
Kamp Kanawana and Camp Otoreke, 


Tho Camp proportics wero carefully appraised during this year 
by an cxperionced contractor, following which adjustments wore made in 
insurance protection and book valucs, 


Becauso of the need of more extonsive facilitics in the 
Sir George Williams College accentuated by the large numbers of veteran 
students and the necessity of rolinquishing a substantial portion of 
space in the Drummond Street Annex, arrangoments were completed to lease 
the Spanish-Portugose Synagoguc on Stanley Streot, The tonurc of the 
lease is for a period of five yoars and seven months from Novombor 1, 1946 
with option of ronowal, This Unit known as tho Stanley Strect Annox 
provides an additional fourtoon classrooms and four offices, Extensivo 
renovations wore undertakon at the expense of the ¥ .M.C.A. 


Through tho kindnoss of Mr. J. Erncost Millon a fund of $2 ,000,00 
has been established to finance tho construction at Camp Perrot of a camp 
hospital in memory of Laddie Millon and a eraftsmanship hut in momory of 
the late John W. Ross, L.L.D. who was closcly associated with the carly 
development of Y.M.C.A. Camps. This generous gift of Mr, Millen will bo 
invaluable in the progressive plan to improve tho facilities of Oamp Perrot 
from year to year, 


During tho yoar a legacy of $10,000.00 was recoived from the 
Estate of the lato Mrs, C.T, Williams. In accordance with the terms of 
the bequest one-third of tho gift was forwarded to the Y.M.C.A, Calcutta, 
India, to be applicd towards the cost of erecting a hostel or other build- 
ings in connection with the work of Charles Paterson, 


\ 


ED 
Ss Continued 


This generous gift recalls the helpful relationship of the 
late C,.T, Williams as President of the Association from 1898-1901 and 
the continued interest and support of the late Mrs. C.T. Williams which 
included a generous gift to establish a memorial library in Southwestern 
Branch, 


After thirteen years of conscientious service as Honorary 
Treasurer, Mr. E.A. Leslie resigned on November lst, and was succeeded 
by Mr. T. Denton Lewis, Mr. Leslie gave unstintingly of his time and 
under his experienced and capable leadership the financial affairs of 
the Association have been maintained at a high level, 


9,  PERSONNGL: 


(a) Volunteer Service on the part of hundreds of younger mem and 
womem of Greater Montreal alone made possible the immense volume and 
remarkable variety of the Association's programme during the past year, 


Such service has included: membership on boards and committees, 
the leadership of Clubs, acting as instructors of groups and classos, 
coaches of teams and athletics, giving lectures and addresses, work 
as personal counsellors, on leaderst corps, as camp counsellors, on 
ladies auxiliarics, and other groups. 


The splendid help given by 800 loyal workers who assisted in 
our annual Financial Campaign was also invaluable, 


(b) The Secretarial Staff, considerably depleted during the war, 
has once more been brought back to almost full strongth. 


Central Branch was strengthencd by the appointmont of Norman J. 
Millington as Mombership Secretary, J.J. Sims as Director of Physical 
Education, Reginald Harvey as Young Men's Secretary, Lynn Morgan as 
Assistant Boys' Work Secretary and M.R.B. Boyes as Residence Secretary. 
During the yoar Oscar L. Pearson, Director of Physical Education re- 
Signed to take a position with the city of Toronto as Director of 
Recreation, and Stanley Liversidge, Membership Secretary resigned, 

It is with the deepest regret that wo record the death by accident 
in November of R.S. Cuffe, for many years Residence Secretary. 


John Arnott was appointed Community Secretary at Rosemount to 
suceced J,0, Peters who resigned, 


Miss Joan Christie was appointed Women & Girls' Work Secretary, 
and Ronald Hupfield Men's Programme Secretary at Southwestern Branch, 
Miss Botty Reynolds was appointed Women's and Girls' Work Secretary 
at Notre Dame de Graco Branch, replacing Miss Joy Powles who resigned, 


R.A. O'Brien, Boys' Work Secretary of International Branch ro- 
signed, Harry Clinch transferred from Central to Westmount Branch 
as Boys! Work Secretary. 


LO. 


16, 


Continued 


During the year the following secretaries secured their 
Certification by the Association Of Secretaries, which is the pro- 
fessional society of Y.M.C.A. Secretaries: Roy D, Locke, George 
Barker and Harry Clinch, 


We have continued ow policy, inaugurated at the close @& 
World War I, with respect to providing training fellowships to 
young poople looking to the Association secretaryship as a career, 
and had the largest group to date, twenty young men and one young 
woman, For purposes of practical training those students were 
assigned to the following branches: 


Eric Stafford Montreal Hast 
C. H. Cameron Hochclaga 
Donald Duncan Terminal Park 


Arthur Jordon) ‘ ' 
Rothh tateen |) International Branch 


Clifford Junko Lachine Branch 


Alvin Wilkinson) 
Roy Shepherd  ) 
John Byans '\'s) } 
John Waldic ) 


Notre Dame de Grace Branch 


Albert Humphreys 


) 
Frascr Wade ) Southwestern Branch 
Miss Joan Buck ) 

) 


H.F. Cooke 
D. Ross Bannerman Wostmount Branch 


Bert Estabrooks) 
Alan McCann ) North Branch 


John Ferguson  ) 

J. Gordon Clarke) Central Branch 

Jack S, Myles) 

J. W. Brown Sir George Williams College 


NATIONAL COUNCIL: 


The Montreal Association, as a constituent member of the National 


Council of the Y.M.0.A.'s of Canada, has a direct share in its work. 


His Excellency Viscount Alexander graciously accepted the post 


of Patron of the National Council, soon after his arrival in Canada, 


\ 


ses 


10. Continued 


Several now appointments to its staff wero made during the 
yoar. Arthur A, Buckley, aftor a torm overseas with Y.M.C.A. War 
Services in the United Kingdom and ¥.M.C0.A. Force Director in North 
‘West Europc becamo National Young Monts Socretary. Murray G. Ross 
was appointed National Personnel Secretary, succcoeding T.H. Hutchinson 
who had acted in that capacityf°r a yoar and rotired in August 1946. 
T. A. Dimock was appointed National Secretary for Transportation, 


The annual Oanadian Institute of Public Affairs was held at 
Geneva Park, Lako Couchiching with a largo attendance of persons repre- 
senting all parts of Canada, Problems of World Security and Canadian 
Issucs were the two main topics of discussion, 


The Sccond Canadian Hi-¥ Assombly brought together at Lake 
Oouchiching about one hundred delagates from Hi-Y Clubs across Canada, 
and considered the topics "Hi-Y Today and The Years Ahead", 


The ¥ .M.C.A, Staff School was again hold at Geneva Park and 
performed a useful function in providing practical Association courses 
for younger secretaries. Dean Henry F, Hall of Sir George Williams 
College was Dean of the School. Five membors of the Montreal staff 
attonded, 


The National Boys' Work Committee conducted a series of ton 
older Boys' Conferences across Canada in November, including ome in 
Cornwall for Eastern Ontario and Quebec, 


The actual services to the troops carried on under the 
direction of the National War Services Oommittee ceased on January 21, 
1947, when the last Supervisor operating on the troopship service on 
the Atlantic was demobilized, Overseas the work was carricd on with 
diminishing volumo until July 27th when our operations with the R.C.A.F. 
in the Bombor Command Area folded up. In Oanada work in Naval cstablish- 
ments, Air Stations and urban contres ceased March 3lst, 1946, and in 
Army Camps on June 30th, 1946, 


The arduous task of disposing of surplus supplies and equipment 
both in Canada and overseas was carried out in close collaboration with 
the Federal Government authoritics and in harmony with the accopted pol- 
icics of both Government and the National Voluntary Organizations, 

Thesc disposals took place by two mothods:- 


(a) By transfor to permanent forces - Navy, Army, and Airforce, or 
(b) By direct salo. 


Overseas, buildings and cquipment generously loaned to the 
Canadian Y.M.C.A. by the British Y.M.C.A. were returned with the oxpressions 
of deep appreciation, Large quantitics of motion picture cquipmont, pianos, 
folding tables, ete. wore disposed of to the Prisonor-of-War Branch of 
the World's Alliance of the Y.M.C.A. The British, Dutch, and Polish 
Associations secured supplics of furniture, furnishings, and general equip- 
mont. A vory large proportion, however, of these, surplus supplies were 
disposed of by salc to UNRRA and other bodies, 


\ 


18. 


LO Continued 


Thus has come to a close another epic in the history of our 
Movement, involving a task which literally encircled the globe and which 
served 128,412 Naval ratings, soldiers and airmen participating on the 
average every day for six years and ten months, The gross operating 
expenditures exceeded forty million dollars, and over seven hundred 
Secretaries or Supervisors, 2500 other employees, and 20,000 volunteers 
were engaged in service, 


The final audit of accounts for the last year of the operations, 
the consolidation of accounts, and the completion of the History of the 
Canadian Y.M.C.A,'s in the war still remain to be completed, 


ih, WORLD SERVICE: 


As one views the efforts presently being made to build up the 
United Nations Organization, ons is grateful for the fact that the Young 
Men's Christian Association is now organized in 69 countries of the world; 
that it is a great International force for mutual undorstanding and co- 
operation, and that it has had over three-quarters of a century of exper- 
ience in working as a world organization. It is a potent force for good 
in this period of reconstruction, 


We report with pleasure that the sum of $18,100.68 was secured 
during the year for the support of Canadian Y.M.0.A. secretaries serving 
with indigenous National Movements overseas. While this amount is 
slightly less than the funds raised in 1945-46 it is over 2,000.00 more 
than our objective, 


All of the administrative units of the Association in Montreal 
participated in the sccuring of the funds mentioncd above and the results 
are as follows: 


Metropolitan Board $ 11,015.75 
Central 2,200,00 
Westmount 550,00 
Sir George Williams College 696,06 
North 500,36 
Southwestern 360,00 
Notre Dame de Grace 1,100.00 
International 1,100.00 
Lachine 175.00 f 
Eastern Oommunitics 100,00 
Kamp Kanawana 671.79 
Camp Otoreke 209,89 
Oamp Perrot usd) | oa ee 


$ 18,100.68 


196 


Ao a Continued 


Sevoral distinguished leaders of the Association movement 
visited Montreal during the year and were of great assistance in connec- 
tion with our programme of intemational education and in addition were 
extremely helpful in relation to the secuting of our World Service objcoc- 
tive. These speakers included: E, Stanton Turner, Sbnior Secretary of 
tho ¥.M.C.A. in the Philippine Islands, who had been interned during tho 
period of the Japancse occupation, Jocl Nystrom of South America, who has 
had broad expericnes in that continent, Robert 0. Bucll of Ocylon, who ir 
1930 spent a year on the staff of the Montreal Association, and who is now 
engaged in special research work in the East Indies for the World's Committee 
of the Y.M.O.A,. and J, Hartlcy Fowlor of the National Oouncil staff, 


Horacio Oanziani, a member of the staff of the Y.M.0.A. in 
Montevidco, Uruguay, spent three months with the Montreal Association as 
@ Fellowship Sceretary, through an arrangement entered into jointly by the 
International Committee and the Montreal Y.M.C.A. His purpose was to 
study the cducational and cultural programme of the Association and similar 
organizations in Eastorn Canada. 


S. C, Tsao of Chungking, China, is spending eight months in our 
Association on a similar Fellowship, taking a course at Sir George Williams 
College. Mr, Tsao and his family suffered unbelievable hardship through- 
out the period of the Japanese occupation, and while able to carry on his 
work in Free China, did so at great sacrifice and in the face of great 
diffictltics, 


12, WORLD YOUTH FUND: 


In some twenty-six countries in Asia and Hurope, such as Korea, 
Manchuria, China, the Philippines, tho Netherlands, Poland, Czecho-Slovakia, 
Roumania, Bulgaria and Greece, throughout World War II, Association build- 
ings were destroyed or occupied by invading forces. Secretaries were driven 
from their work and homes, several of thom killed, and almost everything 
except tho purpose and spirit of the Association was destroyed, Over 105 
buildings were either entirely destroyed or so severely damaged that thoy 
could not be used until rehabilitated. More than six hundrod Y.M.C.A. 
Secretarics lost their homes and large numbers of thom were separated from 
their families, The fact that these Associations have survived in tho 
face of difficulties is literally a miracle, Yot in spito of the tragodios 
their morale has continued to be amazingly good but they dosperately . 
need the practical help and encouragement which alone can come from tho 
Y.M.C.A. Movements in the United States and Canada at the present timo, 


In the face of this situation, it was decided to hold an 
International Convention, which in due course assembled at Atlantic City 
in March 1946, attendcd by approximately 2500 delegates from the Y.M.C.A.'s 
throughout North America, Association leaders from war devastated countries 
were present and with factual and descriptive statements of the conditions 
facing the ¥.M.C.A, in their respective countries challenged the Movemonts 
to give their maximum help in this period of crisis. Speakers included: 
M, Hrodmadka of Qzecho-Slovakia, General Romula of the Philippines and 
S.C, Leung of China, 


20, 


NAN Continucd 


As a result of the Convention it was decided to launch, at 
the earliest possible moment, a World Youth Fund for Restoration and 
Advance with a minimum objective for North Amorica of #8,650,000.00. 
In October the Canadian Associations undertook goals aggregating ovor 
460,000.00, Subsoquontly Montreal's objcetive was accepted at 
100.,000,00, 


Initial gifts for this undertaking wore quickly secured 
from both Corporations and individuals andthe Campaign Organization was 
set up undor the general chairmanship of John B, Frosst, J.P.. Copland, 
Vice-Chairman, All our administrative units accepted goals and by the 
close of our fiscal year on March 3lst most cnecouraging progress had 
been made in Montreal and over a million dollars had boen reported 
throughout North America, 


os OBITUARI.IS: 


In the following paragraphs it is impossiblo to express ade- 
quately the sense of irreparable loss sustained by the Association in 
the death of four members of our Senior Boards: 


Canada lost a truly great citizen in the death of Mr. Morris 
W. Wilson, His invaluable contribution to the welfare of the youth of 
Montreal through tho ¥.M,.0.A., as a member of tho Metropolitan Board of 
Diretors and its Finance Committee, as Genoral Chairman of the Annual 
Caipaigne and as a leading momber of succossive Special Namoes Committees, 
cannot be overestimated. In enlisting young mon in voluntary service in 
all good causes his achievements were unique. Among the thousands of 
laymon associated with the Montreal Y.M.0.A. throughout its long history, 
fow have given more offective lcadership and gonerous counsel, 


For nearly forty ycars John W. Ross, LL.D. had an outstanding 
place in the counsels and work of tho Young Mon's Christian Association, 
not only in Montreal, but also throughout tho Dominion of Canada, the War 
Services of the First Great War, and the World Outreach of the Inter- 
national Committoce omanating from New York. For a decade Dr. Ross was the 
Presidont of the Montreal Association and lattorly a valued member of the 
Motropolitan Advisory Board, He took a loading part in the forward move- 
ment of tho Association involving the rcmoval from the Dominion Square 
Building and the cstablishment of the Metropolitan Work in 1911 and 1912, 


Mr, Arthur Lyman had beon for the past fifteen years a valued 
member of the Metropolitan Advisory Board, Throughout his lifotimo he 
was @ helpful friend and generous supporter of the Association's work at 
home and abroad. He took a dcep and personal interest in the wélfare of 
individual older boys and young mon, particularly those in his employ and 
was most helpful in relating them to educational opportunities in the 
Young Men's Christian Association, 


21. 


LS. Continued 


Dr. Frederick J. Tees, C.M., F.R.C.S., M.C., had been an 
active member of the Association from boyhood. Throughout his life he 
was active in every phase of Association work, and in a voluntary capacity 
gave medical examinations to hundreds of members of the Association who 
were participating in active physical programmes. He also gave unstint- 
ingly of his time to all types of sports as it was his conviction that 
these played a large part in the molding of character. He was deeply 
interested in the world outreach of the Association, As a member of 
the Metropolitan Board for many years, he will long be remembered for 
his sympathetic understanding,his wise counsel, and his deep and abiding 
interest in the broadest aspects of the Association's work, 


14, APPRECIATION: 


There are many factors which combine to make possible a success- 
ful year's work to the Y.M.C.A. We are grateful to the many friends who 
have contributed generously of their financial resources; to the members 
of Boards and Committees for their frequent counsel, guidamce and ser- 
vices; to the many volunteers who havo served as friendly counsellors of 
clubs and boys in camp; to coachos and instructors; interviewers, teachors 
and ministers; to the Press; the members of the symnasium and swimming 
Leaders' Corp; the staff, to the churches, the Womon'ts Committees; the 
Montreal Council of Social Agencios; the Railways and other corporations; 
the Young Women's Christian Association and many Other co-operating 
agencies. To all of thom we tender our heartfelt thanks. Above all, we 
are in humility grateful to God for His blessing and power, 


15. CONCLUSION : 


In summary, it may bo said that the Association has enjoyed 
a fairly satisfactory year of re-adjustment to post-war conditions, of 
struggle to moet heavy demands from Voterans and their families, 


It has once more been indicated that our accommodation for 
the formal educational work carried on by our College is quite inade- 
quate to meet current needs, The most careful study is being given 
to our needs in physical equipment, staff and the services which the 
Association is called upon to render in this vitally important field, 


It has also becone clear that we face a pressing need to 
extend and greatly improve the equipment available for our work in 
certain outlying sections, such as the east-central, north-east, south 
shore and lakeshore districts, At the earliost possible moment funds 
should be secured to provide the necessary buildings in many rapidly 
expanding industrial and rcosidential districts, ; 

The development of our entire programme requires. furthor 
careful study, particularly with regard to providing more adequate 
skiing accommodation for young people and older boys and girls as 
well, A programme of improvements to Camp Perrot is already under 
way and awaits more favorable conditions in the construction industry 
for further implimentation, 


ee. 


MSY Continued 


As we face the future we should remind ourselves that this 
Association which will celebrate its centenary in 1951 has a great 
heritage in organization, in facilities,in resources and in tradition, 
Its future usefulness will be measured by the extent to which it 
ministers to the fundamental needs of young people and achieves its 
spiritual objective in the lives and purposes of men, 


Respectfully submitted, 


J. W. Beaton, 
General Sccretary. 


STATISTICAL RECORD FOR 1946 


VOLUNTEER SERVICE: Persons 
Volunteer group leaders esa faeutelteete Mer elavararera ettets 239 


On Boards, Committees & Councils ......cccece 1,268 
Attendance at meetings 


HaALTH AND PHYSICAL FITNSSS: 
Gymnasium activities ... Total participation 
Swimming: Classes & Individuals ... Total " 
Athletic Events ........e. Total participation 
POPSORS | COUR E EC: WEIN yids s sald waned eae 5,756 
_SWimming & life-saving tests .cscccserccves 901 
Teams, Leagues, Rinks & Playgrounds ...... 


SOCIAL RECREATION: 
Dramatic & Musical Events ... Total attendance 
Oratts&\ HOBBIGE:.| 6 cei ss duassais iu i 
Dances, Partios and Social Affairs, Tot, ™ 
Motion Pictures,Indoors & Outdoors " " 


RELIGIOUS HDICATION: 
Mectings, Study Groups, Chapel, Total attondance 


SUMMER CAMPS: 


Kanawana for Boys .......-. NO, of campers 302 

Otorekc for Young People .. " 2 i L027 

Perrot for Boys and Girls... " " ee 256 
Total camp-days, all camps 

City Day Camps(ten) ....... No. of campers 1,379 


PERSONAL PROBL&MS : 


BRST Or Mere CIS i) ee, UA alll gt iba ua tele deine 
Persous placed in cmployment’\\)\iss dc ecwe'e 131 


CLUBS AND GROUPS: 
‘Nunber of Clubs Intorest CEROMID Ie gletsieyal aieieie 360 
Meetings: Boys, Girls,Young People, Totl. Attend. 
Total Dnrolment in all Groups, Classes, Teams, 
COUNCILS, CTC, \'s0:0 24,482 


INFORMAL SDUCATION: 
Lectures, Forums, Study Groups, otc. .weccecece 
TRA yt Mey Ey) Lal. oe vopNak ely ew eda ale. wie 
TE DEAR GE levies a eins ve wine ROO OLeenLation 


FORMAL EDUCATION: : 
0 ae George Williams College .. No.of students 6,098 
No. of Classes 690 - No. of Student Hours 


COMMUNITY SERVICIS: 


Use of 'Y' Buildings by outside organizations 215 
BUGS VO GMS Ye shase andate elas eral e 1,088 


Estimated attendance of non-mombers ..\.ceceece 


23, 


Attendance 
16,496 


165,068 
139,646 
58,693 


27,731 


21,988 

4,362 
94,552 
22,964 


6,896 


25,108 


6,590 


93,547 


12,550 
2,427 
47, 881 


1,310,387 


77,872 


