YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 


ANNUAL REPORT 1959 


SPA Et ee EA Oe ee EE oy, | eee ees Pie) een par 


PROJECTS AND OPERATIONS SECTION 


FORWARD 


The Board of Directors takes pleasure 
in submitting the Annual Report of 
the Young Men's Christian Association 
of Montreal for the year ending Dec- 
ember 4Ilst, 1959, in accordance with 


the requirements of the constifufion. 


This report covers matters of general 
interest affecting the Montreal Assoc- 
iation as a whole. Detailed reports 

of all eleven branches, including Sir 
George Williams University and Schools, 
have been submitted and approved at 
their respective meetings and are in- 


cluded in the records of each branch. 


THE YOUNG MEN'S 
CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION 


OF MONTREAL 


METROPOLITAN OFFICES 
ip! DRUMMOND STREET 


Central Branch Northeastern Branch 

Ih! Drummond Street 4001 Rosemount Boulevard 
International Branch Northmount Branch 

5550 Park Avenue 1455 Rochon Street 
Lachine-Dorval Branch Notre Dame de Grace Branch 
3955 Provost Street 335 Hampton Avenue 
Lakeshore Branch Southwestern Branch 

2h6-A Lakeshore Road 7105 La Salle Boulevard 
Montreal East Branch Westmount Branch 

127 St. Cyr Street 4585 Sherbrooke Street West 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY 
1135 DRUMMOND STREET 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS SCHOOLS 
Ili! DRUMMOND STREET 


Evening High School School of Art 


Business School School of Retailing 
Elementary School 


CAMPS 


Kamp Kanawana Camp Otoreke 
St. Sauveur St. Adolphe de Howard 


YMCA Ski Lodge 
Christieville 


_ 


MEMBERSHIP 

BOYS AND GIRLS 

TEEN 

YOUNG ADULT 

PHYSICAL 

CAMPS 

SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY 
SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS SCHOOLS 
RESIDENCES 

PERSONAL COUNSELLING 

FINANCE AND PROPERTY 

YMCA AND THE MONTREAL COMMUNITY 
YMCA AND THE WORLD COMMUNITY 
PERSONNEL 

METROPOLITAN OFFICERS 

OBITUARY 

APPRECIATION 


STATISTICAL REVIEW 


PAGE 


MERGERS HI FP 


POPULATION . . . PROGRAM . . . AND THE 1960'S 


The Gordon Commission indicates population develop- 
ments that are of vital significance to the Montreal 
YMCA. Over the full decade the number of people in 
Canada under 40 years of age will increase by some 

43 million. It is noted that 80% of 'Y!' membership 
is in this age group. Those between 10-19 will num- 
ber h.2 million by 1970 with most of the increase 
before 1965. 


Growth is reflected by the comparison of 1950 mem- 
bership served (15,977) with the total during 1959 
(2h, 366). 


In looking ahead to the 60's, two parallel develop- 
ments mighf be anticipated in membership coming out 
of two new emphases in general program. The first 
being a considerable growth in the teenage group as 
the club-centred program is now developed beyond 

its experimental stage; the parallel development wil! 
be an increase in the young adult membership, attrac- 
ted by the growing endeavour of branches to offer 
short-term informal education and physical condition- 
ing courses to this group. 


The 'year end showed a total of 21,366 members en- 
rolled. tn addition, there were 1,726 registered 
non-members participating in various specific acti- 
vities during the year, while a total of h,430 cam- 
pers were enrolled. Different individual members in 
1959 reached a total of 439,399. The figures below 
do not include camp enrollment or registered non- 
memberSe 


In terms of age composition or sex composition, there 
has not been any significant city-wide shift in mem- 
bership. Within the particular branches it is int- 
eresting to note that in the Central downtown branch 
there is a rapid "aging" in membership. This is 
coming through the increased enrollment of executives 
for physical health and conditioning, and registration 
for informal adult education courses. The aging is 


comnou 7 


i q me 


compounded by a drop in the downtown youth and teen- 
age group. Over the years the population of the 
downtown area is becoming increasingly composed of 
single people and childless couples. 


In all 45,30 different boys, girls, students, men, 
and women were registered and active in the program 
during the year. 


Different Members Total at 


Membership by Branches During the Year Dec. 31/59 
Central 8,611 5,219 
Lakeshore 3,490 2,323 
International 4,467 1,002 
Notre Dame de Grace 3,101 1,57 
Northmount 1,622 t, tz 
Lachine-Dorval 1,594 97 
Westmount 1,387 928 
Northeastern 1,192 587 
Southwestern 1, Oly 319 
Montreal East 633 613 
Sir George Williams University 
and Sir George Williams Schools 13), 259 942i 
TOTAL 39,399 2), 366 
By Sex 
Male 15,05 
Female 9,32 

eRe a fT A ( 

By Age Per Cent By Age Per Cent 
Under 12 2,607 10.7 25-2 3,752 15-4, 
zw oe 97 1.0 4045 2° 558 10.5 
r & fF a8 10.5 35 & Up ohare 12.6 
18 - 2h 8, 286 3.0 Unknown 560 2.3 


BOYS A ND Gwd t Rw db S 


The Gray-Y Club Platform: "As 
members we achieve the purpose 
of our youth clubs by striving 
togethers 


~To be friendly 

-~To respect and serve others 

-To be healthy 

-To show good sporfsmanship 

-To be helpful af home 

-To keep up in school work 

-To take part regularly in church 
activities 

-To be reverent to God" 


In this category falls activities for boys and girls 
9-lh years of age. In 1959, h,086 of the total mem- 
bership were included in this age group. It is in- 
teresting to note the strong appeal of the smail 
friendship club to boys and giris as a focus of pro- 
gram activities. 


What Childneme Der. . .« 


Hockey teams, baseball, football, floor hockey, bas- 
ketball, general gym classes, and swim instruction 

were a big part of the general junior program in bran- 
ches. Some items of note (from many) are the trips to 
Quebec City by boys and girls for swimming competitions 
» « « "hop" over Montreal in a TCA Viscount ... kide= 
dies carnivals, fairs, and puppet shows raised over 
$1,000 for World Service. The Annua! Water Show at 
Notre Dame de Grace involved 80 girls in a colourful 
water ballet presentation of "Sleeping Beauty™ . « « 
Lakeshore had 8 Saturday Gym Centres operating for boys 
and girls from Baie D'Urfee to Pointe Claire. This by 
no means exhausts the list, but is is exemplary of the 
kind of activity being carried on throughout the branches 
for our junior boys and girls. 


Boys and Girls Love to Join a "Ciub" 


Friendship clubs (called Gray-Y clubs in some branches) 
are playing an important part in the children's acti- 


on 


vities. Groups of boys or girls from 9-Ih meet under 
the guidance of a volunteer leader in a home, a 
school, or the 'Y', Each club, under its own elected 
officers plans programs of special interest to its 
memberSe 


The interests of many youngsters is astounding. Rec- 
reation and program certainly cannot exclude movies, 
cokes, and ice cream .. . but they are equally eager 
for creative expression, museum trips, and arf ex- 
hibits. Individual crafts, hobbies, and dramatics 
absorb many youngsters in addition to hikes, games of 
various kinds and the intriguing responsibilities of 
running their own club. 


In addition to the small group activities, clubs come 
together on joint projects such as, Penny Carnival, 
Easter and Christmas baskets for "shut-ins"™, bean feed 
suppers, bus trips to Ottawa and Parliament Hill, Father 
and Son or Mother and Daughter Banquets, and athletic 
tournaments. 


BOYS AND GIRLS - MONTREAL YMCA 


Number of 


Branch Clubs Club Members 
Notre Dame de Grace | 105 
International 13 126 
Lachine-Dorval 22 420 
Northmount 2| 226 
Lakeshore 17 422 
Westmount 1] 157 
Northeastern 39 10 
Southwestern 10 6 87 
TOTAL io L, 753 


Tir WN 


The Hi-Y Club Platform... 
"To create, maintain, and ex- 
tend in the home, in the school 
and throughout the community 
high standards of Christian 
character". 


For six years the Montreal Association has been ex= 
perimenting with new approaches to teen program. 
First, at Northeastern under Harry Clinch, fifteen 
years 'Y' Secretary and six years teacher at St. 
Georges "Progressive" Schoo! in Westmount. Again, 
in 1958-59 the Metropolitan Program Committee spon- 
sored a two-year pilot project at Notre Dame de 
Grace dealing exclusively with high school youths 
in Hi-Y Clubs. 


Objective of the studies has been to develop program 
designs that would have high “Value Learning” poten- 
tial, and which at the same time would appeal to their 
needs for social experiences, recreation, and physical 
development. 


In 1959, experience from these years of experiment 
was introduced into club programs of the branches. 
Development has been intentionally careful and the 
numbers intentionally small. Results have been 
outstanding. 


Teenagers have enthusiastically taken hold to organ- 
ize their own club programs to set up ciub study pro- 
jects on community affairs, education, study habits, 
and so on. Club officer training courses have opened 
the door to acceptance of responsibility and experi- 
ence in the democratic processes of group organization. 


By the close of '59 the whole teenage program of the 
Montreal branches had moved to a point that "quantity" 
could soon be achieved without fear of sacrificing 
qualify. Without doubt, these years of experiment 
have produced findings and experience which in the 
early 1960's will have profound impact on large num- 
bers of youths in the community. We are now better 
prepared to provide a quality "Value Education" pro- 
gram to fhe on-coming inundation of teenagers. 


ec 


Several Kinds of Teen Clubs 


In each branch club formation has taken several forms, 
each an answer to the needs of particular teen groups; 
some are co-ed, others, boys and girls singly; some 
are a mixture of school and working youths; some are 
exclusively one or the other. In this teen category 
in 1959 there were 43 clubs operating with a total en- 
rollment of 726. 


In keeping with the qualitative emphasis in feen pro- 
gram, much effort throughout 1959 was directed to dev- 
elopment of closeknit friendship groups and fhe frain- 
ing of leadership within the groups themselves. Nofre 
Dame de Grace, Southwestern, Lachine-Dorval, Northmount, 
and International branches helped the officers of teen 
clubs organize an intensive series of lectures and dis- 
cussions and workshops on the principles and mefhods 

of how to be a good club president, treasurer, or ofher 
officer. Bound up in this whole process, are the dem- 
ocratic ideals, and essential attitudes of "Values for 
Living". 


Clubs Develop All Over the City 


New clubs (14%) were inducted in every community branch 
in 1959. The induction ceremony is a moving and solemn 
event, usually arranged for a Sunday evening in a church 
or 'Y' chapel, with parents and friends invited. In 

the candlelight ceremony, young people dedicate them- 
selves to a four-plank platform of clean speech, clean 
scholarship, clean sportsmanship, and clean living. 


Social Recreation 


Club program is but one aspect of teen activities. To- 
tal membership in this 15-19 group was ),126 at the end 
of the year (excluding those enrolled in the University 
and Schools). Throughout 1959 attendance at dances, 
parties, social events, dramatics, music, outings, etc. 
ran to 69,536 with a little more than half that made 

up of teenage participants, (excluding University). 


Physical Fitness 


A further aspect of teen program is the physical acti- 
vities which take a great part of their energy . « .« 
archery, badminton, gym teams, figure-skating, bowling, 
basketball, swimming, hockey, and softball. (See 
Physical Report) 


-9- 


1oU 8G 


AGPYUL TS 


More young adults are finding 
for themselves, within fhe 
YMCA program, a satisfactory 


medium 


for self-expression, 


fellowship, and education. 


ADULT PROGRAM 


This section of the report has reference to non-phys- 
ical program for adu!t members of the Association. 


Between the ages of 18 and 25, young people face at 
least four life-size decisions affecting the next 
forty or fifty years of their lives: 


i. They choose (or fall into) a career or steady 
job. 
2.e They choose a tife partner.and. marry. 


%. Apart from having babies and working fo sup-= 
port them, attitudes and habits of leisure 
take shape. 


he A basic philosophy of life forms, centred 
around a new system of values that must some- 
how relate to their work, their children, and 
fhemselves. , 


Thirty-four percent of the total membership falls 
within this age group. 


If should be noted here fhat in this age group there 
are 1,115 adults registered in Sir George Williams Uni- 
versity courses as "partial" students... This and the 


Evening Students Association program of clubs and ace-. 


tivities is a tremendous item of adult program in the 
Montreal YMCA. 


A further major shift is affecting adult program. 
Young adults are not joining the 'Y' to "buy" program. 
Members are taking over more of the organization and 
MOAB GENOME of their own activities. 


In the branches, adult program committees and coun- 
cils have taken an increasing responsibility for 
their own activities. The rising level of educat- 
ion over the past few years has produced a large 
body of highly skilled university-trained young 
adults . . . These kind of persons are less inclined 
to "buy" services .. . Their great need is to find 
within the YMCA a setting in which their educational 
background can be employed in creative expression 
and new intellectual challenge, 


Adult Social and Recreation Program 


Three branches last year offered So-Ed programs of 
exceptional quality; these programs were organized 
by the yound adult planning committees, and were 

set up on a three-phase concept of skills, lectures, 
and recreation. Essentially an informal education 
type program, So-Ed is a six or ten-week project. 


Lecture topics have included "Life is for Living" 
under which yound adults have investigated such top- 
ics as "marriage", "child-training", “choosing a 
vocation", "communism", "labour unions", “our poli- 
tical parties", "American investment in Canada", and 
"Canadian cultures", 


Adult Education Courses 


At Lakeshore, Central, Lachine-Dorval, and Notre Dame 
de Grace branches there has been an increase in the 
number of education courses offered on specific sub- 
jects. These have been designed to provide quality 
instruction under competent leadership, and have 
dealt with a wide range of subject matter. 


For Adults Wifh Hobby Interests ... 


Under fhe general heading of "hobbies", for the lei- 
sure available to adults, it can be reported that 
there has been an increased attendance in classes 
and clubs in such interests as: oil painting, phot- 
ography, leafthercraft, ceramics, smocking, and 
millinery. 


A variety of clubs, self-governing in nature, but 
centred around a common interest, included--camera 
club, outing club, glee club, music appreciation, 
film club, table-tennis club. 


Adults Like a Party Too... 


During the year there were social events consisting 
of dances, parior socials, bridge nights, dramatic 
and musical activities, and a variety of trips, 
fours, and outings. Many of these events are an in- 
tegrated part of the programs of adult clubs and 
groups. 


New Canadians 


Perhaps the most unique adult education program oper- 
ated within the branch setting is the English classes 
offered for New Canadians at International Branch. 

in 1959, 1,923 students received instruction in Eng- 
lish Language. 


Following the war, the first obvious step was to help 
New Canadians get established and earn a living by 
teaching them to speak the Language; buf as immigra- 
tion slowed, if became possible for the Branch Board 
to give more attention to help these people assimilate 
Canadian customs and mix into Canadian life. 


A study, sparked by Dr. J. S. Astbury (Education), on 
the International Board provoked a complete revamping 
of the Language classes at international and a conse- 
quent revamping of the aduif social and recreation 

programs to fit in with the student language schemes. 


SENIOR. SERVICE CLUBS 
"¥'s Men's Clubs 


This is the senior men's service club of the YMCA of 

which there are two duly chartered clubs in the Mon- 

treal Association-=-the Verdun 'Y's Men's Club, and a 

second ciub, af the Notre Dame de Grace Branch, char- 
tered in i958 by 'Y's Men's international. 


Besides the opportunity for individual growth and dev- 
elopment, these clubs contribute much by way of finan- 
cial assistance and leadership to the program of the 
YMCA members. 


They have raised funds for World Service, provided sub- 
sidy to send boys and giris to Camp Perrot, given time 
to committees within their branches, leadership to 

clubs and activifies for youngsters, and taken on impor- 
tant assignments in the Annual Finance Campaign. 


aw|{2Q- 


The Foremen's Club 


This club is for foremen and supervisors in industry 
with a membership of over 500 representing 81 indus- 
trial firms in the Montreal area. This club held 
monthly meetings with prominent guest speakers from 
Canada and the United States addressing them on topics 
related to their work. The club published its own 
bulletin and conducted ofher projects related to 

the advancement of foremanship, such as management 
development clinics, public speaking, safety cam- 
paigns, industrial exhibits, and tours. Fourteen 
boys and girls were enabled to attend Camp Perrot 
through a special fund raised by members of the 
Foremen's Club. 


OTOREKE SUMMER LODGE FOR ADULTS 


Two unique extensions of YMCA adult program facility 
are the summer lodge near St. Adolphe de Howard and 
the winter Ski Lodge at Christieville in the Lauren- 
tians. Operated by a separate Otoreke Camp Committee, 
these two resident lodges provide a summer and winter 
Laurentian setting for young men and women to come to- 
gether in an atmosphere of leisurely fellowship. Com- 
plete facilities are available for canoeing, sailing, 
volleyball, fishing, swimming, or just plain lazing 

in the hof sun. 


There is a very real change in the holiday habits of 
our particular constituency of young people .. . they 
are travelling to far places for their vacations, but 
they are also supplementing their full summer vacation 
trips with regular weekend outings. This appears to 
be the new role that Otoreke is fulfilling and it is 
likely that as fhe Laurentians become more and more a 
suburb of Montreal we can anticipate an increase of 
short-term guests. oe 

The possibility of a second new role for Otoreke seems 
to be developing with the increased requests from var- 
ious youth organizations for summer conference facili- 
ties. 


in the light of the changing pattern of vacationing, 


such a scheme would go a long way to fill the growing 
gap between mid-week and weekend occupancy at Otoreke. 


~13- 


CHRISTIEVILLE SKi LODGE 


This Lodge is the winter camp for many of the Otor- 
eke guests, who have formed an Otoreke Ski Club. 

Its membership during the year was 87 with close to 
100 guests and members visiting the Lodge during 

the ski weekends. It is situated in the heart of 
the ski country with hills and tows on the property, 
Or easy access to St. Sauveur, Morin Heights, Mont 
Gabrielle, Ste. Adele, Ste. Marguerite, etc. for 
fhose who want a taste of steeper fhrills. 


There is skiing instruction, cross-country and down- 
hill skiing, as well as indoor evening activities of 
a social nature. On Sunday, a morning worship ser- 
vice is conducted in the Lodge. 


Besides the winter use of the Lodge, the Montreal 
Association uses if for various conferences and 
branch meetings. It is also used by the Friendly 
Home for Orphans as a summer camp for children. 


-Ih- 


Po Yiisd 1. Al 


"Unless there is a widespread 

realization that the problem 

of sub-health exists in a ser-=- 

ious form and unless people 

realize that it is both curable 

and preventable, the problem 

will undoubtedly get worse with 

the consequent demoralization 

of the whole community." 
The Duke of Edinburgh's Presidential 
Address; Canadian Medical Association, 


June 30, 1959. 


12,915 members registered for 
some kind of physical activity 
in 1959, their use of facili- 
ties numbered just under half 
a million .. . 62,361 to be 
exact. 


PHYSICAL FITNESS FOR EXECUTIVE LIVING 


Discussion had centred for some time on the question 
of improving physical health programming for business 
men. Central Branch took a leading role in October, 
1958 with the presentation of Dr. T. K. Cureton in a 
two-day physical fitness clinic. This clinic was 
attended by several hundred business men and special 
guests from physical departments from local univers- 
ities and schools. This project was a tremendous 
stimulant fo ments physical program throughout al! 


of 1959. 


Dr. Cureton, (University of IIlinois) a leader in the 
physical education field in America, presented some 
striking evidence in the distinction between physical 
fitness and how much is accomplished in current phys- 
ical programs. “In the face of urban living, physi- 
cal middle age begins at about the age of 27," said 
Dr. Cureton. 


lf men are to retain fhe necessary vigour and health 
for lO years of effective living, then they will have 
fo take a more realistic attitude towards individual 
physical fitness training. A game of golf and a few 


» 15~ 


weeks vacation in the sun is fine recreation, buf if 
is not a sufficient substitute for a regular program 
of physical exercise. 


The Cureton Clinic increased interest in the business 
men's membership and the physical departments have 
acted to revamp some aspects of men's program to pro- 
vide individualized fitness training schemes in line 
with Dr. Cureton's recommendations. 


The major changes have been at Central Branch which 
serves the downtown executive (281) and business 
group (4,729). A new exercise room was outfitted 
and individual testing programs inaugurated along 
with scaled individual conditioning schemes for mem- 
bers. Three other branches--International, Notre 
Dame de Grace, and Westmount have also introduced 
some of the "Cureton" basics to their business and 
senior men's physical activities. 


Physical Activities 


The range of physical program is enormous. There 
were figure-skating clubs, golf schools in four 
branches, skiing instruction, archery, Branch and 
Provincial competitions in basketball, wrestling, 
swimming, ornamental! swimming, diving, football, 
and softball. Enroliment in teams and leagues was 
2,25! for 63,702 participating, while enrollment 
in total athletic events was 160,670. 


All branches ran "learn-to-swim" programs for chil- 
dren in the spring, with community branches coming 
by charter bus to pools at Westmount, Southwestern, 
and Central. 1,384 youngsters learned to swim dur- 
ing the year. In regular poo! programs, 5,288 were 
enrolled for swims and 12,06 progressive swim tests 
were awarded, ranging from beginners to life-saving. 


Gymnasium activities enrolled 4,593 persons on 
54,700 occasions during fhe year. In this category 
are included junior gym programs, judo groups, 
leaders corps trainees, (boys and girls), squash, 
gymnastics, body=building, and wrestling. 


Women were keen about "slimnastics", and swim prog- 
rams with enroilments at nearly every branch growing 
steadily last year. Women also showed active interest 
in badminton, archery, skiing, and skating. Married 
women were again the biggest group in the spring golf 
lessons series in 1959. 


a{6u 


CAMPS FOR BOYS AND GIRLS 


In the richest tradition of the 
YMCA triangle, a youth at camp 
grows in spirit, mind, and body, 
and carries home new ideas and 
Christian values that linger on 
as treasured memories and guide- 
posts to living in later years. 


KAMP KANAWANA 


Located near St. Sauveur in the Laurentians, the camp 
property includes three lakes and a part of a fourth, 
covering some 600 acres. Facilities of every kind 
make possible a variety of program regardless of wea- 
ther conditions. 


A Significant Social Study 


Kamp Kanawana, in 1959, was the centre of one of the 
most excifing social-study projects ever undertaken 
by the Montreal YMCA. The Camp Commiftee studied 
and approved a proposed program of "Planned Group 
Development" for camp counsellor and staff training 
in the 1959 season. This was an outgrowth of the 
staff training retreat project earlier in the year. 


Objective of the "P.G.D." was to raise the level of 

"Value Education" in all camp program by increasing 

the skill of counsellors in the general program, and 
second, fo be sensitive to symptoms of emotional or 

"Value" problems in their young campers. 


Dr. Dimock (Education) of the Montreal staff worked 
closely with Camp Director, Ross Seaman, and the 
Camp Committee on formulation of the entire project. 


Project Findings 


Perhaps the most significant finding of the total 
training project was the verification that young 
people, given the opportunity and the training, can 
in fact take hold of the new program and teaching 
methods and operate them successfully. 


«(T= 


This fact becomes of vital importance to the total 
year-round YMCA program, since it demonstrates that 
volunteer leaders, advisors, etc., given the proper 
setting and adequate skilled help, can achieve a 
high degree of competence in performing a "Value 
Education" program. The results of this project 
encouraged branches to implement the new-type leader 
training sessions in their fali schedules. These, 
too, have shown dramatic results on the qualitative 
uplift of branch programs, and particularly, youth 
club work. 


KANAWANA STATISTICS 


Age of Campers 1959 Length of Stay in Camp 1959 
8 9 | week | 
9 9 2 weeks 438 
10 102 weeks 
1 | 104 if weeks 147 
12 102 5 weeks 0 
| 58 6 weeks 19 
| 41 8 weeks 27 
15 {| 
16 pad 

Total Campers 526 


VOYAGEURS '59 


Designing a Senior Camping Experience for Teenage Boys 


The YMCA has been concerned about the needs of the ol- 
der boy in camping. By the time a lad has had five or 
six years of organized camp program, he feels he has 
"had the course" and is looking for a more challenging 
experience. What kind of summer adventure could YMCA 
offer fo answer the needs of a teenage boy .«... a boy 
who stands shorn of childish pursuits, yet unprepared 
and unaccepted in the adult world? It had to be a kind 
of experience that would chalienge him physically and 
intellectually; that would appeal to his boyish imagin- 
ations that would stimulate him to recognize and accept 
the responsibilities of growing into manhood. 


-18- 


Last summer the Metropolitan Boys Camp Committee (of 
the Montreal YMCA) set up six three-week canoe trip 
"voyageurs" adventures into the Quebec northlands. 
The test project involved 30 boys, Ih-I7 years old. 
lt was decided that a “voyageurs" group would be 
comprised of five boys and a senior YMCA leader. 


No Ordinary Camp-Out Trip 


Leadership was the first concern. This was no ordin- 
ary camp-ouf trip .. . the voyageurs leaders had to 
have a great variety of skills. Most important, they 
had to have camping skills and experience that would 
guarantee their ability to live for three weeks in 
the Quebec wilderness with no access to city life. 
But there was another kind of leadership that was im- 
portant . . » the kind of mature man who could recog- 
nize and fulfill the needs of a growing teenage boy. 


In this setting a group of five older boys quickly 
learn that leadership is strictly "man to man". Trip- 
ping leaders were skillful! voyageurs in the wilderness 
of Quebec. They were aiso mature college men chosen 
for their good character, and their understanding of 
problems boys face af the threshold to manhood. 


Training at the Base Camp 


A sleep-out "Base-Camp" was established Id miles out- 
side YMCA Kamp Kamp Kanawana. This was a training 
camp where the Voyageurs spent three days getting ac- 
quainted with each other and brushing up on their 
camping skills. This orientation program included 

the use of canoe equipment, bedding down, and cooking, 
just as they would later in the northlands bush. 


Ten Voyageurs "Outfits" Are Planned for the Summer of 1960 
Additional leadership persons will be engaged. A new 
training Base Camp will be established in the north 
in 1960 rather than operating out of Kamp Kanawana at 
St. Sauveur. This will encourage the Voyaguers to ac- 
quire a feeling of self-determination and complete 
freedom from any formal camp program setting. 

CAMP PERROT = FOR BOYS AND GIRLS 


This camp, like Kanawana, is operated under the Camping 


~ Gn 


Committee of the Metropolitan Board of Directors. 
Situated on the south shore of Isle Perrot, looking 
out over the St. Lawrence River and Lake St. Louis, 
its design is to provide a short term out-of-doors 
camping experience to boys and girls 10-16 years of 
age and at a modest fee. The camp operates a six- 
week period for boys (210) and then the last two 
weeks of August, the girls take over with their own 
staff and counsellors. 


Tent Unit, Section and A!ll-Camp Program 


Each tent consisted of five campers compared to fhe 
usual seven. Each tent group planned ifs own pro- 
gram for part of each day through the little Chiefs, 
(the tent representatives) who met daily with the 
Section Director. The counsellor was leader for his 
own tent group in all activities, and was with his 
campers at all times. This demanded more skill of 
the counsellor, but it did give more variety to his 
work and, most important, it gave better individual 
attention to campers. 


Evening programs were usually ona section basis, 
and consisted mainly of group games. 


The whole camp met for weekly Council Fires, Friend- 
ship Fires, and General! Swims. 


A few other outstanding events were Indian Day, Rodeos, 
Indian Decathlon, Swim Meets, Amateur Nights, and 
Regattas. 


Health and Safety 


The general health of the camp was very good. All 

ailments were of a minor nature. The average gain 

in weight was over two pounds, and fhe average stay 
per camper was two weeks. 


Future 


Due to the rapid encroachment of summer cottages and 
year-round housing in the general area of the camp, 
the Camp Committee had for some time been questioning 
the future of this site as a resident camp. At fhe 
end of the '59 season the Committee submitted to fhe 


-20— 


Metropolitan Board its recommendation that the camp 
no longer operate fully, but convert to a site for 
branch Day Camp programs. 


SUMMER DAY CAMPS 


Eleven day camps and summer fun clubs were operated 
by branches during the summer of 1959. These two 
fypes of program, identical in purposes, but differ- 
ent in technique, represent a growing segment of 
YMCA programming over the past decade. 


In the day camp, an actual ouf-of-fown camp site is 
obtained to which the youngsters travel by charter 
bus each morning. For example, the Lakeshore 'Y! 
obtained the use of 25 wooded acres at St. Barbe near 
Valleyfield on Lake St. Louis. Here, 456 campers 
spent the day building teepees, leantos, making cook- 
outs, and engaging in all the fascinations of Indian 
counci! lore. These are all the experiences of a reg- 
ular resident camp and yet the youngsters return home 
in time for supper. Lachine-Dorval Branch conducted 
a Summer Day Camp on another site. 


SUMMER FUN CLUBS 


The Summer Fun Clubs are similar in philosophy, but 
they are not centred on a particular campsife. Clubs 
were operated by International, Northmount, Northeas- 
tern, Montrea! East, Southwestern, and Notre Dame de 
Grace. If is a five-day a week program of special 
oufings, picnics, crafts, plant visits, competitive 
events, and recreational games. Some of the program 
is operated in fhe city branch, some is out-of-town 
picnicing, and some is in the form of museum and plant 
visits by charter buses. 


There were 1,73) children enrolled in 1959 Day Camps 
with a fotal program attendance of 29,927 over the 
seven-week period through July and August. 


Leadership for this work came out of branch staffs 

and was supplemented with experienced leaders from 

our own Universify=-YMCA Fellowship training group, 

and specially skilled people from some crafts instruc- 
fion. In addition, volunteer leaders included college 
and high school sfudents and mothers of participating 
boys and girls. 


ae a 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY 


The Montreal YMCA is uniquely 
involved in formal education 
through Sir George Williams Un- 
iversify. Through this year- 
round day and evening education- 
al program, 6212 persons atten- 
ded winter sessions and 201, 
Summer sessions . » © a fotal 

of 8,253 registrants in the year 
19596 


The past year was one of great activity and of almost 
maximum use of our plant and facilities. Just before 
the year closed, an amendment to the Act of Incorpor- 
ation of 1948 was passed by the Provincial Legislature 
and given royal assent on December 18, 1959. By means 
of this amendment, the name of the institution was 
changed to Sir George Williams University. 


These are stimulating days in the field of higher edu- 
cation. Perhaps never before have universities rec- 
eived so much public comment and attention. The growth 
of educational institutions in size and in number has 
been phenomenal, and that of Sir George Williams has 
been equal to most in many ways. This is vividly ill- 
ustrated by the fact that the operating balance sheet 
for 1959 was 22.5% of that of 195). 


The year !959 witnessed almost complete use of our 
physical resources with consequent levelling off of 
the hitherto sharply rising curve of registration. As 
previously mentioned, our institution has undergone a 
double expansion. On the one hand, it has continued 
to more nearly fill its evening education role in the 
community, and on fhe ofher, it has shared with other 
colleges the genera! trend toward an ever increasing 
student population, both actually and also relative to 
the population as a whole. The present situation poses, 
therefore, a crucial question as fo the future. Of 
this our governing boards, committees, and administra- 
tion are well aware and 1960 will see the function of 
a year long 1959 study by the University Planning Com- 
mittee under Dr. 0. M. Solandt. 


aaea 


TOTAL REGISTRATION 


WINTER SUMMER 

Day Evening Total Evening Only 
1958-59 1958-59 1958-59 1959 
.Arts 587 1,113 1,700 606 
Science 49 1,020 ae) 455 
Commerce 47 i, 109 1, 4.87 539 

Engineering 2 59 101 

Partial 20 1,9 1,501 yd | 
TOTAL 1,20 h, 792 6,212 2, 01 


DEGREES AND DIPLOMAS 


The number of degrees granted, which had been fairly 
constant for the past three years, reached a new high 
of 66 in the year 1959. These, together with diplo- 
mas listed below, were formally presented at two cone 
vocation ceremonies, both of which were presided over 
by the Chairman of the Board of Governors. The spring 
convocation was held at the Royal Canadian Hussars Ar- 
moury on May 22, the speaker being Dr. E. F. Sheffield, 
Research Officer of the Canadian Universities Founda- 
tion. The fall convocation took place on November 28, 
at the Salvation Army Citadel, the speaker being Mr. 
Willson Woodside, National Director of the United Na- 
tions Association. 


DEGREES AND DIPLOMAS GRANTED 
1959 1958 1957 1956 1955 


Bachelor Degrees h6é6 )o1 ho8 Io 445 
Associate Diplomas 23 23 28 32 aT 
Diplomas in Association Science “) 5 2 | 
Certificate in Engineering 10 --- --- --- --- 


SCHOLARSHIPS AND BURSARIES 
The growth of the University has focused attention on 


the fact that our number of scholarships is smal! in 
comparison to the size of the student body. Most 


~23= 


scholarships and bursaries are granted from the gen- 
eral funds of the University and, in effect, amount 
to a reduction in tuition fees. 


In 1959, the Professor John Hughes Scholarships were 
established by Mr. William Katz, and the Hugh Millar 
Engineering Scholarships were considerably augmented 
by their donor, Mr. Gus Miliar. In addition, the 
City of Montreal! granted us a scholarship fund of 
$12,500.00, available to students residing in the 
City of Montreal. 


For the year 1959-60, a total! of 152 scholarships 

and bursaries were awarded, amounting altogether to 
the sum of $1,020.00. This, however, does not in- 
clude the assistance given to students from the City 
of Montreal grant, ($12,500). The Quebec Provincial 
bursaries, which are available only to day students 

in science, engineering, and commerce, have greatly 
increased in our institution. This year 50 students 
received bursaries, amounting to a total of $14,700.00 
or an average of $27.00 each. 


ACADEMIC HONOURS 


The practice of issuing a Dean's Honour List, estab- 
lished in 1958, was continued. it contained the names 
of 39 day and 62 evening students who were honoured 

at a special! event on December 6. Woodrow Wilson Schol- 
arships were granted by the Woodrow Wilson National 
Fellowship Foundation to three graduates. 


STAFF 


During the year, the staff and faculty remained remark- 
ably constant, there being a minimum of changes. Four 
new faculfy members were appointed and two staff mem- 
bers, H. F. Quinn and E. G. Finley, received doctor's 
degrees from Columbia University. 


Mr. James R. McBride, B. Aw, was appointed Assitant to 
the Registrar and Mr. A. Douglas Insleay was appointed 
Athletic Director, having performed this function in 
an acting capacity the previous year. 

LIBRARY 


In spite of severe handicaps, the Library has attempted 


-2)- 


to serve the student body and has reached a new high 
in the number of books and other publications pur- 
chased and processed, as well as in the actual cir- 
culation. We look forward to a new Library project, 
which has long been planned, to give us in the near 
future more adequate facilities in this respect. 


FINANCE 


The current operating position for the year 1959 was 
very satisfactory. Due to increased earnings in tu- 
ition and to certain economies of operation, includ- 
ing a considerable decrease in cancellations, fhe 
budget has been satisfactorily balanced. This was 
accomplished in spite of a large increase in expen- 
ditures particularly for salaries and for plant im- 
provement. 


During the year, the University was notified that 
the third federal grant was now available through 
the Canadian Universities Foundation. This amount- 
ed to the sum of $345,561.00 which was added to the 
total held by the Foundation on behalf of Sir George 
Williams. 


The Provincial Government made a grant of $450,000.00 
to the University, of which $200,000.00 was earmarked 
for capital expense, and the remaining $150,000.00 
for maintenance. Half of each of these sums was re= 
ceived in 1959. 


Be 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS SCHOOLS 


University education has enjoyed 
much public attention recently. 
It is essential to note fthaft ed- 
ucation at every level adds a 
vital new dimension to the life 
of the individual. The four Mon- 
treal YMCA Schools constifufe an 
outstanding project in adulf ed- 
ucation in Canada. 


The four Schools continue to serve the needs of a 
large group of Montreal youth and, indeed, of many 
who can no longer be included in this category. 
Although often overshadowed by the University, the 
Schools constitute an outstanding project in adult 
education in Canada. 


REGISTRATION 


The total registration showed a slight decline in 
the year 1956-59 over the previous year. This was 
partly due to space restriction particularly in 
the evening division in the School of Art, as one 
studio was taken over by the engineering course as 
a drafting room. The following tables show the 
registration in the regular term and that of the 


summer. ~~ 
TOTAL REGISTRATION 
WINTER SUMMER 
Day Evening Total Day Evening Total 
1958-59 1958-59 1958-59 1959 1959 1959 
High Schoo] ioe 2,192 2, '92 --- 765 765 
Elementary School -<- 143 143 --- phen si uk 
Business Schoo! 263 779 | ob2 92 279 371 
School of Art 50 2h [7 wee wee anmnie 
School of Retailing 3h --- 3) --- _--- pare 
TOTAL 37 $228. 3,575 92 1,0h) 1,136 


~26— 


THE HIGH SCHOOL 


The Evening High School, the !argest Protestant high 
school in Montreal, seems to have an almost unlimited 
field. For the past few years if has vied wifh fhe 
evening University in occupying fully every foot of 
space assigned to it. The registration, therefore, 
remains practically constant in the given space. The 
Headmaster, Mr. A. Saunders, and the Assistant Head- 
master, Mre Ge. M. Cameron, assisted by a staff of 7I 
part-time teachers, most of whom are in the employ of 
the Protestant School Board of Greater Montreal, do 

a heroic job in meeting the educational needs of over 
2,000 pupils annually. This is a work the need for 
which seemed to be declining twenty years ago, but 
which continues to a remarkable degree aft present. 
However, one noticeable change is that the people, in 
general, are staying in school longer than was the 
case a few decades ago. The number of diplomas and 
certificates awarded by the High School over the past 
few years is as follows: 


1959 1958 1957 1956 


High School Diplomas 212 196 166 138 
Elementary School Certificates 73 57 6 5 


THE BUSINESS SCHOOL 


The Business School, which is the oldest member of 
the Sir George Williams! family, had a rebirth of vi- 
tality in the year under review. Over twice as many 
graduating diplomas were awarded in 1959 than in any 
recent year. The annual graduation ceremony was held 
on June 29, when the speaker was Mr. J. Be. Archer and 
Mr. Ro Re Merifield was Chairman. Diplomas and cer- 
tificates awarded by the Business School during the 
past few years are as follows: 


1959 1958 1957 1956 


Business School Diplomas (day) 100 3 iTKe) 58 


Business 


School Certificates (evening) 78 76 72 66 


The Director of the School, Mr. Ro. No Elliot, and his 
staff of eleven full-time and six part-time teachers 
deserve credit for this marked achievement. 


=27= 


THE SCHOOL OF ART 


This School, with studios on the top floor of the 
University building, is closely related to the Fine 
Arts Department of the University. However, if has 
a student body of its own. Our School has a grow- 
ing reputation due largely to several well-known 
artists who are part-time instructors under the dir- 
ection of Mr. John Stewart, the Director. A satis- 
factory exhibition was held by the School in Birks 
Hall during a week in May which received favourable 
comment from artists and art critics. Each year, 
several graduates of the School enter the fields of 
fine or applied art, many on a professional basis. 


THE SCHOOL OF RETAILING 


The youngest and smallest of the Schools is making 
excellent progress. The course has been changed 
from a one-year to a two-year program, and the fall 
of 1959 saw the enrollment of the first second-class 
as well as an increased first-year class. 


The Co-operating Committee of the stores, in which 
the students are employed on a part-time basis, con- 
tinues to play a vital role in the work of the School. 
The Director, Miss Patricia Dunton, performs a valu- 
able service, not only in directing the instruction 
of the School, but also in coordinating the work and 
study programs of the students. It is believed that 
the curriculum in this School has been considerably 
strengthened, not only by ifs extension in fime, but 
also by improvement of course offerings in certain 
subjectse During the past year, Mrs. Edna Jeweff has 
been added to the staff as instructor and part-time 
Assistant fo the Director. 


Pe) ye 


r= > 


o's’ ete 5 SER FW Cres 


Loneliness in the midst of a 


crowd 


is no uncommon phenomenon 


in the hectic bustle of our big 


cities 


- »« « Besides a place to 


sleep and eat, a young man, 
newly-arrived in Montreal, has 
need of recreation, friendship, 
and an opportunity to take root 
learning about his city and 
meeting some of its people. 


by 


MEN'S RESIDENCES 


Three of our branches, Central, International, and 
Westmount, have Men's Residences which provide ac- 
commodation at a reasonable cost to young men. ODur- 
ing 1959 this service supplied 172,961 bed nights. 


In 1959, two complete floors operated as a student 
residence for Sir George Williams University and 
Schools. There are 88 students in these single 
rooms, which are provided at $1.00 per day . « » 
less than one-third the usual rate. 


The Residence of the Central Branch, located in the 
downtown area, attracts the students, the servicemen, 
the 'Y' member from another cify or country, the 
foreign visitor, or the young man coming to the city 
for the first time. While in Montreal, they are ren- 
dered many of the services needed to make their stay 
in our city as pleasant as possible. 


The residence has served its role throughout the many 
economic and social shifts of the twenties, the thir- 
ties, the war years, and then the immigration days of 
post-war Montreal. In the last two years, the exper- 
ience in our downtown residence has stirred some 

fresh scrutiny into the possible role this YMCA ser- 
vice can expect to fulfill for young men in downtown 
Montreal throughout the next decade or more. Through- 
out 1959 a detailed study has been made of needs and 
services. 


"Job mobility" and "geographic mobility™ are terms 


#29 


made common now by "Fortune" Magazine and their stud- 
ies on North American business life. Our residences 
truly reflect the international "mobility" of youth 
in this new world. Twenty years ago it was an “oc- 
casion" to have residents from foreign lands. Today 
the residence services men from all corners of the 
Globe. Day in and day out, desk clerks struggle 
patiently to understand and serve the faltering Eng- 
lish of Japanese, Spaniards, Italians, Chinese, and 
others. 


The purposes and objectives in operating the YMCA 
Residence are two-fold and remain unchanged from its 
historical pasts- 


1. To provide service to young men in need of 
accommodation in Montreal. Besides a place 
to sleep and eat, this service should in- 
clude opportunities for healthful recreation, 
for friendships, and help in becoming ac- 
quainted to life in Montreal. 


2. To create a source of income to support ofth- 
er YMCA youth services in the city. 


Out of this study, if has become plain that if these 
service objectives are to be fulfilled, the Central 
Branch Residence rooms must be refurbished. Careful 
maintenance and replacement has kept furnifure and 
fixtures in good condition over the years. But 
styles and tastes have changed drastically since the 
1930's. Rooms which at that time were a cosy "home 
away from home" are no l!onger in tune with modern 


day standards. There is littie doubf that one of our 
most pressing "capital" problems in the immediate 
future will be renovation of the 518-room residence 


on Drummond Street. 


The Buildings and Furnishings Service consultants of 
National Council of YMCA'ts have been called in dur- 
ing 1959 and have submitted preliminary estimates af 
over $100,000 for renovations and refurbishing. 


-40- 


PE R S5@60i4at 6.0: NeSoGabjhulshy6 


An emphatic first belief of fhe 
YMCA since its inception has been 
the value of the individual per- 
sonality. Fellowship, recreation, 
and group interests have played 
various roles over the generafions 


in the 


YMCA's overall program of 


Christian personality development. 
But not all help comes through 


groups. 


Many persons find wifhin 


the YMCA a receptive and sympath- 
etic atmosphere within which they 
can discuss individual problems. 


77, |43 INTERVIEWS 


708 


The feeling of freedom from constraint coupled with 
the pervading friendly atmosphere in the YMCA setting 
opens the door to a unique kind of rapporf between 
the YMCA Secretary and many individual members. To 
develop such a rapport is the role of the Secretary, 
and, out of this, frequently comes a gradual disclo- 
sure of individual problems and concerns. 


Within this setting, Secretaries exercise help fo 
many individuals. To adults and teenagers goes help 
on vocations, marriage, courtship, family, and per- 
sonality adjustments; to youngsters, the problem of 
quitting school, choosing courses, dating; to parents 
the Secretary frequently becomes helper or advisor on 
child problems. The immigrant, the new boy in town, 
the unemployed youth... these are the focus of in- 
dividual staff attention. In 1959, there were 77, 1h3 
individual interviews recorded and likely double that 
number occured over the coffee cup, in the locker 
room, or after a meeting. 


JOB PLACEMENTS 


Sir George Williams University has had a long history 
of personal counsel and helpfulness for many fthous- 
ands of young people. The complexity of selecting a 
vocation is strikingly symbolized by the University 
Careers Library which classifies 36,000 different vo- 
cations in our complex society. 


a3 | = 


Throughout 1959 the University Students Guidance 
Office showed just over 4,000 counselling appoint- 
ments with the professional staff. The Placement 
Office reports nearly five thousand interviews 

with students, six hundred interviews with employ- 
ers, and 708 placements. In addition, over 40 firms 
and institutions sent representetives for one or 
more days to interview students at the University. 


tan 


F 


NANCE & PUR Gert ee tts 


The business community and citi- 
zens of Montreal continued un- 
failingly in their financial sup- 
port to the vital youth work of 
the YMCA. The total 1959 opera- 
tions budget of the YMCA went 
over 2. million dollars. Funds 
from Annual Campaign represent 
one in ten spent by the Associ- 
ation for youth program and edu- 
cation work throughouf the city. 


ANNUAL MAINTENANCE CAMPAIGN 


The Annual Financial Campaign which, apart from its 
immediate purpose, is the largest program event of 
the year by virtue of fhe area covered and the in- 
volvement of people, was held November I6th to 430th. 


Against an objective of $20,000, the final returns 
showed 1,237 gifts for a total of $20,186. These 
results were excellent in the face of the usual 
losses through deaths, removals, and business slug- 
gishness in certain areas of the economy. 


The organization included 2,200 workers and, on the 

whole, functioned extremely well. The difficulty of 
completing the job in the campaign period continues 

to be a problem in spite of good leadership and ap- 

parent high morale. Report meetings provided an ex- 
cellent medium of promoting fellowship. 


Mr. W. N. Hall, as General Chairman, again gave dyn- 
amic leadership to the undertaking. Special Names 
were in the capable hands of C. L. Walker. As has 
been the practice for several years, Branch Boards 
undertook responsibility for enlisting the services 
of Division Chairmen. This aspect of the organizing 
process is peculiar to the YMCA Campaign as compared 
with other similar efforts. 


Mr. Ne. Re Crump, President of the Canadian Pacific 
Railway Company, addressed the opening meeting. Speak- 
ing as one who had a long, and at times, intimate re- 
lationship with fhe Association, Mr. Crump heartily 


-44= 


commended the work of the YMCA and contributed greatly 
to a very successful launching. 


BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES 


Major items of building renovations and repairs were 
carried ouf as followss:- 


Drummond-Stanley Building 


Laying new viny! asbestos tile in classrooms and cor- 
ridors on the third floors; complete renovation, in- 
cluding new south wall, and refinishing and decorat- 
ing of basement handball court; conversion of offices 
and coatroom into a special exercise room on ground 
floors; commencement of major renovation of fhe swim- 
ming pool brought about by irreparable cracks deve- 
loping. 


Sir George Williams University 


Air-conditioning Birks Hall, a project eliminated from 
original building because of costs; extensive redecor- 
ating and installation of fabrilite in areas formerly 
painted; installation of new cabinets and tables in 
laboratories. 


International Branch 


Extensive renovations and rehabilitation involving 
complete replacement of wiring, renewal of plumbing 
lines; installation of acoustic ceilings in impor- 
tant areas, extensive floor tiling, installing new 
panelling in two large recreation rooms; and a large 
amount of redecorating. 


An area of land containing 75,000 square feet located 
on St. Johns Road in Pointe Claire was acquired from 
the city for $25,000 as the first step in providing 
permanent facilities in fhe Lakeshore area. 


In June, the Southwestern Branch building on Gordon 
Avenue, which has been sold to the Catholic School 
Commission, was vacated after an occupancy of approx- 
imately 30 years. 


The branch was relocated on La Salle Boulevard in the 


new building completed in June 1959. Formal opening 
ceremonies took place in September. This very compact, 


=3)- 


beautifully-designed functional unit, containing ap- 
proximately 100,000 cubic feet, is ideally located 
in a spot west of the Verdun Protestant Hospital 
overlooking the St. Lawrence River. 


BEQUESTS 


During the year the following sums were received 
and added to the Endowment Fund:- 


Estate late P. 0. Colwell i 250.00 

Estate late G. W. Birks 87,..92 (bal- 
ance of bequest) 

Estate late F. L. Benedict $3,000.00 ({fur- 


ther payment) 


YMCA AND THE MONTREAL COMMUNITY 


The Metropolitan YMCA co-exists 
with many varied institutions 

in this city of mixed cultures. 
lt works with them, serves them, 
and offers ifs facilities for 
their use. 


Many organizations and community groups found the 
right afmosphere and the right facility in a YMCA 
setting. There is the RCAF, Municipal Athletic 
Clubs, Children's Kindergartens, and so the list 
goes to a tofal of 729 community groups meeting on 
2,955 occasions in branches throughout the city. 


Community relationships find their expression in 
many ways$3 af Lachine-Dorval, International, and 
Centra! branches, the facilities are opened to reg- 
ular Sunday Church services of several religious 
congregations who were wifhouf their own churches. 


As a member of the Greater Montreal Council of 
Churches, the Council! of Christian Education for 

the Province of Quebec, and fhe Montreal Council 

of Social Agencies, the YMCA confinued to assume a 
helpful role in the activities of these organizations. 


-45- 


YMCA AND THE WORLD COMMUNITY 


In so many countries, broken 

as they are by social upheav- 
als, the YMCA is one place 
where persons of different 
backgrounds can meet with com- 
mon interests and mutual trust. 
The Near East, the Far East, 
the Middle East, Africa, South, 
America .« « » the YMCA is 

there . »« .« working with youths 
to help them find political and 
economic answers based upon the 
rights of individual freedom. 


WORLD SERVICE COMMITTEE AND "BUILDINGS FOR BROTHERHOOD" 


This year marked the 7Oth anniversary of YMCA World 
Service. 


Since 1889, when David McConaughty and John Swift 
set sail for India and Japan, hundreds of World 
Service men have carried the techniques of the Can- 
adian - U. S. A. 'Y¥' to other countries. The un- 
derlying principle has not changed-="to help people 
to help themselves", The Montreal Association has 
been identified with the undertaking from the be- 
ginning. 


The newest location to be added to the countries 
where the 'Y¥' now operates is Ecuador, and World 
Services has been responsible for 3 of the present 
total of 77 countries in which YMCA's operate. 


The type of service is as varied as the needs of the 
people. From a law school in the Philippines to a 
rural reconstruction centre in Martandam, India. 
From educational work in Turkey, to a refugee camp 
outside Jericho. Work camps, boys' clubs, sanitat- 
ion drives, hostels, etc. are an indication of the 
versatility and adaptability of what has been called 
the "largest layman's organization in the world". 


During the year, three men brought their knowledge 


and enthusiasm to Montreal audiences on this impor- 
tant work:- 


~3b— 


E. S. Wyborn, a former Fraternal Secretary in Ceylon, 
visited in March. 


David Tin Hla, General Secretary of the YMCA in Burma, 
visited in April. 


S. H. Pang, General Secretary of the Hong Kong YMCA, 
visited in June. 


Reference was made last year fo the Buildings for 
Brotherhood Campaign to provide for 116 building pro- 
jects in 33 countries at a cost of $16,000,000. The 
objective for North America is $6,000,000 and Canada's 
share has been placed at $106,000. Montreal accepted 
a goal of $80,000 and an intensive effort was made in 
1959, in addition to the annual goal of $29,500. 


In the combined picture, the results at December 4lst 
were as follows, with the B  B still continuing:- 


BUILDINGS FOR BROTHERHOOD 


Goal Actual 
North America $6,000, 000 $1,556,019 
Canada 06, 000 2436, 000 


WORLD SERVICE 


Goal Actual 
North America $1,610,775 $1,527,473 
Canada 145, 000 138,075 


In Montreal, the response to the two appeals was most 
encouraging as evidenced by fhe following administra- 
tive units. 


Actual Regular 

Branch Bh B Actual 
Metropolitan & 561,787 $ 16,576 
Central h,Ol2 2,000 
University Students tis 
University Others ro ihe be 
Westmount By 3? 1,200 
International 1,951 10 
Notre Dame de Grace , 237 |, 800 


-37- 


Actual Regular 


Branch BB Actual 


Southwestern $ 649 $ 00 
Lachine=Dorval 970 00 
Montreal East 70 
Northeastern 86 56 
Northmount 521 550 
Lakeshore 45 200 
Camp Otoreke 3,000 1,000 
Kamp Kanawana a We 
Camp Perrot | 

TOTAL & 70,711 & 29,700 


WORLD'S ALLIANCE 


The World Alliance, a federation of National Movements 
of YMCA, with headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland, pro- 
vides an opportunity for global exchange of ideas and 
techniques and for personnel training. It also pro- 
vides an opportunity for the Association to speak with 
one voice at international levels in the realms of 
government, education, and the United Nations. It is 

a body similar to the World Council of Churches and 

the International Red Cross. 


The National Council of YMCA's of Canada is represen- 
ted in the Alliance, and five percent of World Service 
receipts are allocated for the maintenance of the Al- 


liance. The Alliance has most important relationships 
with European governments in the field of refugee work, 
where the YMCA in II countries has demonstrated dedi- 


cated energy in refugee camps. 


-38- 


Pe RSS Sn WEL 


This Association of like- 
motivated people, through 
its whole structure of 
boards, committees, and 
voluntary leaders provides 
a medium for mutual help- 
fulness in Christian terms 
for youngsters, teenagers, 
and men and women. 


In this massive whole, we see the 
true context of the word, "Assoc- 
iation" and the true context of 
the phrase "mutual helpfulness". 


As the YMCA of Montreal continued to expand in 1959, 
more persons became involved in its work. Many ac- 
ted on boards and committees, others gave volunteer 
leadership in program as advisors and counsellors, 
while many employed personnel were required for buil- 
ding and equipment maintenance, clerical work, food 
and residence service, instruction in University and 
Schools, and fo work with committees and volunteers 
in the administration and program of the Association. 


BOARDS AND COMMITTEES 


The affairs of the Association were administered by 
the Metropolitan Board of Directors, Branch Boards 
of Management, and committees related to the various 
departments and sections of its work. During the 
year, 1,648 persons were active on boards and com- 
mittees. 


VOLUNTEER LEADERS 


Many thousands of hours of volunteer leadership were 
given by people who acted as advisors, leaders, in- 
structors, and counsellors in many crafts, interest 
groups, clubs, and camping programs. The total num- 
ber of 2,030 people were involved in this way during 


1959+ 
STAFF = SECRETARIAL 


During the year, there were 60 professional YMCA Sec- 


~49= 


retaries, 02 full-time employees, while 509 were 
employed on a part-time basis. Included in the 
part-time personne! were )O Fellowship Students 
from various parts of Canada, who attended Sir 


George Williams University and did program work 
as part of their preparation for YMCA secretary 
ship. 


EMPLOYED OFFICERS 


The following appointments took place among the 
employed officers during the years 


*xieKenneth Jo. Fellows became Metropolitan Finance 
Secretary. 


wuHA. Ro. Seaman became Metropolitan Program Secretary, 
Secretary and Director of Boys! Camping, succeed- 
ing Murray G. Shantz, who joined the YMCA Nation- 
al Council staff. 


*x%%Taimo Pallandi moved from Physical Director at the 
International Branch to become Physical Director 
of Central Branch. 


xeeJim Watt was appointed an Assistant Physical Direc- 
tor of Central Branch. 


*xe%eVictor Hyrhorchuk moved from Adult Program Secret- 
ary at Notre Dame de Grace to Executive Secretary, 
Lachine-Dorval Branch. 


wexeJudith Murphy was appointed Assistant Secretary at 
Lachine=-Dorval Branch, succeeding Peggy Hammond. 


“xeRodney Glansdorp moved from Assistant Secretary to 
Executive Secretary, Northeastern Branch, succeed- 
ing Harry Clinch, who joined the Faculty of Sir 
George Williams University. 


xex%lvan Fraser moved from Boys! Secretary, Southwes- 
tern Branch, to Assistant Secretary, Northeastern 
Branch. 


uxa%Joan Hotson was appointed Assistant Secretary, North- 
mounf Branch, succeeding Linda Sands. 


““xeBarbara Parliament became Women's and Girls! Program 


Secretary, succeeding Verna Harries at Notre Dame de 
Grace Branch. 


-l0-= Bees aa A 


#+Ron Watt became Youth Work Secretary of Westmount 
Branch, succeeding Jim Hawks who joined the Cal- 
gary YMCA staff. 


exeeJames R. McBride was appointed Assistant to the 
Registrar, Sir George Williams University. 


*#kxDavid Carson resigned as Assistant Adult Program 


Secretary, Central Branch, to undertake graduate 
study. 


“hte 


OFFICERS 

J. We. McConnell - Honorary P 
George M. Hobart - President 
O. B. Thornton - Ist Vice-Pr 


Colin W. Webster = 2nd Vice- 


H. Roy Crabtree = 4rd Vice-P 
Je Re Logan - Honorary Treas 
*%James H. Webb - Honorary Sec 


DIRECTORS 


PB. S. Abbott 
E. Re. Alexander 
Robert D. Armstrong 
we oe Fs Banerett 
A. Turner Bone 
Joseph M. Breen 
be He te Chegg 
W. Norman Clelland 
C. Leslie Copland 
A. He Cowie 
Je R. Crawtord 
R. A. Emerson 
Hon. G. B. Fosfer, Qs Cx 
John B. Frosst 
Jie Aw Fuller 
Go. A. R. Hart 
We. No Hall 
me Es Heartz 
%George Hodge 
M. 


M. Wal 


BRANCH CHAIRMEN 


Central - G. D. Birks 
International - William Tetl 
Lakeshore = Ralph R. Johnson 
Montreal East: - Geo. T. Jone 
Northeastern = W. Neilson 
Sir George Willi 


METROPOLITAN OFFICERS 


AND BOARD MEMBERS 


resident 


esident 
President 
resident 
urer 
retary 


Kendrick 
WW. Ss Kirkpaftriek 
Herbert H. Lank 
Denton Lewis 
F. Macklaier, Q. 
Mawhinney 
McKeown 
McLagan 
Norsworthy 
Pritchard 
Roberts 

|. Ross 
E. Sargent 
M. Sedgewick 
Greville Smith 
Irving Ro. Tait 
W. Taylor-Bai ley 
Le We Townsend 
F. B. Walls 


Jo Geo 


C. 


ter 


E. Frost 
- J. Breckenridge 


Norfthmount = C. 
Lachine-Dorval 
No Do. Ge = Ew C. Norsworthy 
Westmount =- E. Lo Hamilton 
Southwestern - F. B. Peterson 
ams University - B. W. Roberts 


ey 


Ss 


-2- 


ale 


CAMP CHAIRMEN 


Boys! Camping Committee - Gordon Mackey 
Otoreke Camp Committee - Gordon Poirier 


ADVISORY BOARD 


T. H. Atkinson 
Henry G. Birks 
Arthur H. Campbel | 
J. P. Copland 

S. G. Dobson 
George V. Ferguson 
G. B. Gordon 

R. D. Harkness 
George R. Hodgson 
W. He. Howard, Q. C. 
Frederick Johnson 
A. Wesley Mason 

» W. McConnel | 

- W. McMaster 

- O. McMurtry 


CB, 050; AC, VO 
R. E. Stavert 
Guy Tombs 
R. C. Vaughan 


‘George A. Walker, Q. C. 


“Deceased 


R. Phelan, Major-General, 


C. 


Wood 


Dis 
L. 
Gs 


A. Whittaker 
J. Belnap 
W. Bourke 


Murray R. Chipman 


J. 


H. Davey 

M. Drury 

C. Gardner 

J. Hannaford 

A. C. Henry 

C. Holden, Q. C. 

C. Jensen 

A. Leslie 

G. McConnell | 

M. McEwen, Air Vice-Marshall, 
CBAC, DAC & Bar 

L. Paterson 

E. Powell 

W. Southam 

K. Trower 

E. Walford, Major-General, 
CB, CBE, BA, ED 


NOMINATING CORA TT Fee € 


The Report of the Nominating Com- 
mittee to the Annual Meeting of 
the Young Men's Christian Associ- 
ation of Montreal. 


Monday, April 25, 1960 


Mr. Presidents: 


Your Committee, having carried out its duties in ac- 
cordance with the constitution, hereby nominates fhe 
following active members to become Directors of fhe 
Association: 


F. W. Bradshaw W. S. Kirkpatrick 
W. Ne. Clelland Ross McMaster, Jr. 
je SB SSR Oss t Je Me Pri ttehard 

ES LeliHamelton He Ge Smi fh 

G. M. Hobart hecR a olLast 


Your Committee also wishes to report that at the last 
meeting of the Metropolitan Board of Directors, the 
following were elected members of the Advisory Board. 


Le. ve Be linaip G. B. Gordon W. W. Soufham 
J. M. Breen W. H. Howard Re Ga, Sha vert 
Arthur Campbell J. W. McConnell W. Taylor-Bai ley 
J. Pe Copland W. Fe Macklaier W. K. Trower 
G. B. Foster T. Re. McLagan Me. M. Walter 

R. E. Powell 


Respectfully submitted, 


W. Townsend (Chairman) 
Breckenridge 

T. Clegg 

N. Hall 

R. Merifield 

D. Robb 

G. Hubbard 


ba i ta © I ae ne 
o's Ss TF & 6 


FOR 1 TMA RY 
We record with sorrow the pas- 
sing of a number of friends of 
the Association. 


H. C. Beatty 


Long-term member of Sir George Williams Uni- 
versity Board of Governors. 


1. Re Carlin -=- Former member of North Branch and Central 
Branch Boards, and active in National Boys! 
Work Field. 

P. O. Colwell = Long-time resident of YMCA. 

Geo. Hodge - Member of Metropolitan Board for over )O years; 


W. McDonald 


member and past Chairman Sir George Williams 
University Board of Governors; actively assoc- 
iated with National Council Transportation Com- 
mittee. 


Member of Metropolitan staff for 25 years. 


E. Ew. Pelton = Former member of Notre Dame de Grace Board. 

A. Te Roblin = Member of Board of Governors Sir George Wil- 
liams University. 

Geo. A. Walker- Member of Metropolitan Advisory Board. 

James H. Webb = Member of Metropolitan Board for 29 years and 


active on many important committees. 


Gordon Aird Rev. E. Aw Findlay 
Go. Te Atkinson Fred Finnie 
W. Bonnar Je Ge Ganetakos 
W. C. Bryce Dr. Chas. G. Gurd 
Je We Cheren C. G. Heward, Q. C. 
Dr. We Ve. Cone Horton Hough 
Gerald Cullen Ron Houston 

A. D. Hunt 


-l\5- 


Frank R. Deakins 
A. S. Dies 
Chris Doscher 


Aubrey H. Elder 
S00 Ener toms 


Ross MacDonald 

W. P. MacDougal | 
Dr. Fred Marshall 
J. Cecil McDougall 
A. E. McGruer 


Mrs. A. W. McMaster 


Lady Meredith 
Frank Robert Mills 
W. R. Mifchel! 

Wm. R. Muir 


Lt.-Col. W. H. Murray 


Henry Newman 
W. Je Niles 


Alfred Payne 
Alfred Powis 


Mrs. G. J. Kydd 


David A. Law 
dis Cr (heroex 
W. F. Locke 
Morris Luke 


AP SAmidr Veew-Randa,! | 
R. T. Riley 
Haviland Routh 


Louis J. Savard 
Miss C.. C. Short 
Miss Agnes Stewart 


R. Ge Tolmie 
G. H. Tomlinson 


N. W. Van Wyck 


Ese ale! Wa iin 
P. R. Walters 
W. S. Watson 
Fe. T. Webb 


alike 


APPREG A 7:1 O48 


It is never possible to adequa- 
tely express appreciation fo 
the many thousands of individu- 
als and organizations who con- 
tribute each year to the work 
of the YMCA, but we do wish fo 
record the following acknowled- 
gements. 


eeeTO the members of the BOARDS AND COMMITTEES who gave 
guidance and counsel to the work of the Association 
during fhe year. 


eeeT0O the hundreds of volunteer ADVISORS, LEADERS, and 
COUNSELLORS who played such an important part in 
group, club, and camp programs. 


eeeTO the many individuals and CORPORATIONS whose gen- 
erous financial assistance has made the year's work 
possible. 


eeeTo PRESS, RADIO, and TELEVISION for the help they 
have given in interpreting the work of the Associ- 
ation to the community. 


eeeTO0 the individual MINISTERS and CHURCHES in the 
Greater Montreal area; the Greater Montreal Counci | 
of Churches and the Counci! of Christian Education 
of the Province of Quebec with whom we have so much 
in common. 


eoeTO the PROTESTANT SCHOOL BOARD for making available 
school gymnasiums, offices, and club room space to 
supplement our own building facilities. 


eeeTO Other YOUTH ORGANIZATIONS: The Young Women's 
Christian Association, The Young Men's and Young 
Woments Hebrew Associations, The Quebec Federation 
of Youth Organizations, and The Montreal Council 
of Social Agencies. 


-7- 


THE YEAR IN STATISTICS 


Figures are meaningful only when 
considered as persons who are 
playing and learning together in 
a Christian environment. Chara- 
cter is influenced by association 
with like-minded people... 
during 1959 the gross attendance 
at all 'Y' programs was 5,331,652 


people. 
ENROLLMENT 
VOLUNTEER SERVICE 
Group Leaders 2,030 
On Boards, Committees and Councils |, 648 


HEALTH AND PHYSICAL FITNESS 


Gymnasium Activities 3 
Swimming Classes 5 
Swimming Tests and Lessons 

No. of individuals taught to swim-1, 383 
Teams, Leagues, Rinks, and Playfields 2,25) 
Athletic Events 


GROUPS AND CLUBS - 2,),86 

Purpose and Fellowship Clubs 

Interest Groups and Classes 27,37 
INFORMAL EDUCATION 

Crafts and Hobbies 1,27 
Lectures, Forums, and Study Groups 

Motion Pictures and Television 

Indoors and Outdoors 

Libraries, Book Circulation 


RELIGIOUS EDUCATION 


Meetings, Study Groups, Chape! 


-1,8- 


ATTENDANCE 


10, Ol, 


63, 702 
160, 670 


489, 849 


12,638 
50,902 
21,612 


115,663 


32290 


ENROLLMENT 

SOCIAL RECREATION 
Dances, Parties and Social Affairs 
Dramatics and Musical Events 
Trips, Outings, etc. 
CAMPS 

Campers Camper Days 
Boys 66 15,218 
Men 52 5,128 
Girls 76 1,06), 
Women 79) ee tie 
Leaders an 6,208 
Total Camper Enrol Iment 2,596 
Total Camper Days 
City Camps and Fun Clubs - II 1, 74 
PERSONAL SERVICES 
Counselling and Interviews 
Employment Placements 790 


Residence Placements 
Food Services 


FORMAL EDUCATION 
Sir George Williams University & Schools 


No. of Students-l2,9l2. No. of classes-994 
No. of Student Class Hours 


COMMUNITY SERVICE 


No. of Outside Organizations using 'Y! 
facilities 729 
No. of Times 2, 955 


GROSS ATTENDANCE 


Clubs, Groups, Program Events, & Personal Services 


-9- 


ATTENDANCE 


69,536 
4,9 
3,287 


31,330 
29,927 


77, 113 


172,961 
ant bes 


34459, 355 


79, 946 


5,331,652 


