ANNUAL REPORT OF THE CENTRAL BUILDING. 


At the close of another year the Committee of Management 
take pleasure in submitting a statement covering the activi- 
ties in the Dominion Square Building. 

From the outset the Committee of Management have sought 
to thoroughly organize the work and place it in charge of 
nine responsible Committees who would feel that it devolved 
upon them to make a success of the different features 
entrusted to them. 

Monthly reports from the Executive, Finance, Membership, 
Religious, Social, Educational, Physical, Summer Camp, and 
Boys’ departments were submitted to the Board throughout 
the year. 

The Committee would like to bear witness to the faithful- 
ness and zeal displayed by the sub-chairman, and to them 
is largely due the credit of the excellent reports which have 
been presented from time to time during the year, and which 
enable us now to pass in review the achievements of another 
year. 

For all that has been done we are profoundly grateful to 
God, to whose blessing we attribute whatever results have 
been secured. 

For ten months of the year members of the Committee 
have met weekly for prayer to ask God’s blessing upon the 
work and His guidance, having for their objective the reach- 
ing of the young men throughout the city, and influencing 
them to aspire to the higher life in Christ Jesus. 

The year has been one characterized by many changes. 
Four resignations were received from the Secretaries, and 
owing to the large number of calls from other centres, and 
the few men available, the vacancies were not permanently 
filled. This condition of affairs has suggested that the 
Montreal Association provide a larger budget in future for its 
staff, that the building may be used asa training school for its 
own, and the Dominion secretarial needs. Mr. Calhoun, the 
General Seeretary, who has served this association so faith- 
fully for 14 years, has accepted a call’ from the Canadian 
Section Committee, to supervise the larger Y. M. C. A. work 
throughout the Dominion. The resolution attached below will 
speak for itself. The Committee are earnestly considering 


> ] 


the appointment of his successor. So strongly has the con- 
viction grown that the building is now inadequate to provide 
for Montreal’s growing needs, that the Committee decided to 
recommend to the Board the immediate provision for larger 
accommodation and better equipment for its members. For 
ten months members of the Committee have been meeting 
weekly for prayer to ask God’s blessing on the work, for His 
guidance, and that the young men of the city may be led to 
a knowledge of Him, who gives light, life, and power. 

At a meeting of the Committee of Management of the 
Central Department of the Montreal Y. M. C. A., held on 
Monday evening, May 10th, 1909, the Chairman, Mr. C. C. 
Holland, announced that Mr. C. K. Calhoun was leaving at 
the end of the week to take up his new duties as Secretary 
of the Canadian Section of the International Committee. 

It was thereupon moved by Mr. Geo. E. Williams, 
seconded by Mr. W. E. Cushing, and carried unanimously, 
that a resolution expressing our great appreciation of Mr. 
Calhoun’s services during his connection with the Montreal 
Association be incorporated in the minutes, and that a copy 
of the same be given to Mr. Calhoun. 

The text of the resolution is as follows:. 


“That on the occasion of the resignation of Mr. Calhoun 
from the Secretaryship of the Central Branch of the Montreal 
Y. M. C. A. to take the position of Canadian Secretary for the 
International Committee, the Committee of Management desire 
to place on record their very high appreciation of the service 
he has rendered to the work in Montreal. 

“During the 14 years he has been connected with the work 
in this city he has won a very lasting place for himself in the 
esteem and affection of all the members of the Association. 
As a secretary, as a teacher, as a guide and counsellor, and as 
a personal friend, he has left a very profound impression on 
the young men of the city, and his departure will leave a gap 
that will not easily be filled. 

“The conscientious and earnest way in which he has carried 
out his duties, and the deep interest he has always taken in the 
spiritual life of the men he has come in contact with, leave 
no doubt as to his future success. The prayers of all the 
Committee go with him that his work may be even more highly 
blessed than it has been in the past.” 


MEMBERSHIP. 


We closed the year with a total membership, on April 30th, of 
2005, made up as follows: 

Life, 37; Sustaining, 182; Regular, 816; Limited, 418; Inter- 
mediate, 267; Junior, 125; Subscribing Members, 160. 

Of the Senior Members 540 are Active Members, 1073 Associate. 


2 


Renewals during the year were 1006. New members, 692. 
Transfers from other Associations, 38. 

Of the new members joining the Senior Department 26 were 
Sustaining, 206 Regular, and 261 Limited Members. 

Of these again 162 were living at home and 329 boarding. 

Classified by religious denomination: 


Church of England... .. 140 Congregational. .. .. .. 19 
Presbyterian. So a ae ee Hebrawes, atta eas, 
Methodist ...6 25.2 as east 279 | Bapuisty. iro Gun ee seyebe 
Roman™ Catholic Away re. 740.” ||) CINGLustatedet) se. > 8 fea 


The financial statement will be submitted separately, from which 
you will see that we close the year with a small balance on the 
right side. The Committee has not been able to secure this satis- 
factory result without -self-denying labor on the part of those 
responsible for the finances of the Association, and generous 
co-operation on the part of a large number of givers. 

We have felt the effects this year of the recent financial depres- 
sion, and notwithstanding every economy have had some unusual 
expenses to meet. 

We are especially grateful that we are again able to come to the 
Annual Meeting with all bills paid, and wish here to thank those 
whose kind co-operation has made this possible. 

Instead of giving the Committee reports in detail, this report 
will endeavor to embrace the essential phases of the work of each 
Committee, thus seeking to give a bird’s-eye view of the work as 
a whole. 


RELIGIOUS. 


At its first meeting last summer, the Religious Work Committee, 
after prayer and conference, felt that it was to lay particular 
emphasis upon four phases of religious work—prayer, Bible study, 
personal work, and evangelism—and that it was to extend its 
efforts in these directions outside of the Building unto the utter- 
most parts of the city. Plans were considered which will, in their 
fruition, lead to more practical forms of Christian co-operation 
among the churches and Christian workers of the city than any- 
thing we have yet seen. 

Mention of these plans was made at a conference of our Com- 
mittee, with a group of other Christian workers, held in September 
last, at which we had the pleasure of listening to an inspiring 
address from Mr. John R. Mott, on ‘‘ Conditions of a Mighty Work 
of God in a Community.” 

While all these phases of work have not yet been gotten under 
way, a great deal has been accomplished. 

The Prayer Committee, under the leadership of Mr. W. Y. King, 
arranged for the observance of the Week of Prayer in November, 
The Wednesday noon prayer meeting has met regularly, and other 
Special seasons of prayer have been observed with great profit. 

The Personal Work Committee, under the leadership of Mr. J. 
Ernest Millen, has conducted a training class for several months 
this winter, and has also rendered service at the evangelistic 
meetings. 

We were unable to secure a Chairman for the Bible Study or 
Evangelism. We are glad to report that Mr. Geo. M. Cole has 


3 


taken hold of the Sunday Afternoon Men’s Meeting with vigor, and 
with excellent results during the last two months. Mr. P. A. Doig 
has also consented to take the Chairmanship of the Saturday 
Evening Meeting. Among the speakers on Sunday afternoon were: 
Rey. J. Baleom Shaw, of Chicago; Colonel Halford, of St. Albans, 
Vermont; Mr. W. P. Archibald, of Ottawa; Prof. Jas. Orr, of 
Glasgow; Dr. Grenfell, of Labrador; and Dr, Crombie, of the New 
Hebrides Mission. A number of definite conversions have been 
reported in connection with the Saturday night meeting, which 
have greatly encouraged your Committee. 

During July and August the Sunday Evening Song Services were 
conducted from the steps of the Building, attracting large crowds 
of people on Dominion Square, and rendering a most useful service 
at that time of the year. 


SOCIAL. 


The work of this Committee has been confined to arranging 
occasions for the social enjoyment of our members during the fall 
and winter months, and Jatterly to careful discussion for improved 
equipment in the Building, so that our members, and those who 
ought to be members, might find here adequate facilities for whole- 
some social intercourse not available elsewhere. 

The Opening Reception for members on October ist last was 
attended by over 300. Two musical evenings and four travel talks 
were given in the social room during the season. Parlor Bowling 
was frequently indulged in by the members ‘with great enjoyment. 


A New Members’ Reception was held in October, with about 250 . 


men present. 

The Thanksgiving Day Supper brought together 130 men, of 
whom less than ten were born in Montreal, and less than thirty 
were Canadians. Great Britain, United States, the West Indies, 
France, Germany, Russia, Syria, and Australia were represented. 
The value of the Association as a home for men away from home 
was strikingly emphasized. 

The Strangers’ Tea has been well maintained during the year 
on alternate Sunday evenings. The usefulness of this feature was 
never more apparent than now, when the number of stranger 
young men appears to be greater than ever. 

On Christmas night a most enjoyable entertainment was held 
in the Social Room, attended by about 150 men. An old-fashioned 
Christmas Tree and other informal features passed the evening 
most pleasantly. 

The Annual New Year’s Reception, together with the evening 
concert, was quite up to the standard of other years. 


PHYSICAL. 


During the past season this Department has been entirely 
reorganized on what seems to be the most workable plan yet dis- 
covered. The Department is directed by a Chairman and Secretary, 
and added to these there is a representative from the following 
divisions of the Department. One man for the winter clubs, one 
the summer clubs, one the gymnasium classes, one the locker 
rooms and baths,"one the religious work of the Department, and 
one the extension work in this city. 


4 


TI 


she abe 


The competitive work of the Department is handled by a Board 
of Control, constituted as follows: One man each from the Board 
of Directors, the Committee of Management, and the Physical 
Department Committee. Added to these, one man from each com- 
peting club. This Board of Control reports directly to the Physical 
Department Committee. 

The Gymnasium classes have been held during the past year 
as outlined in the Prospectus with one exception, viz., the Busi- 
ness Men’s Gymnasium Class, which was conducted two evenings 
per week instead of three, the latter being found unsuitable. 

There have been 27 weekly classes, with a total registration of 
598, as compared with 702 of last year. There have been 304 men 
and boys examined. The total attendance at all classes for the 
year is 14,566; 729 class sessions were conducted, with a weekly 
average of 512. 


Sessions. Total. Average. Ave. for 

1908 
Men, Blementary.. .. .. .. ..55 1869 34 42 
Men, Intermediate.. .. .. ..55 858 16 24 
Men, Advanced.. ........ --55 220 4 6 
Mon, -Student.., enuleta scr cs.esie ho 1034 13 9 
Business Men, Senior... ... ..67 1191 18 24 
Business Men, Junior... ... ..51 1251 24 23 
Business Boys, Intermediate. ..57 1451 24 85 
Business Boys, Junior.. .. ..58 1713 29 85 
Senior School Boys.. .. .. ..84 1297 15 15 
Junior School Boys.. .. .. ..84 2881 84 40 
Leaders’ Corps, Senior.. .. ..21 175 8 10 
Intermediate Corps:. .. .. ..28 161 7 9 
Funnier COUPE ccs Nephew caste 170 7 7 
High School Corps.. .. .. ..18 118 6 


The Physical Department wishes to record its appreciation of 
the faithful services of Dr. W. F. Gilday and Dr. A. L. ©. Gilday 
as Medical Examiners for the past season. 

The Bighth Annual Physical Department Banquet, held on 
April 22nd, was one of the best ever held. The Committee was 
fortunate in- having as speakers of the evening, His Honor 
Recorder Weir and Rev. Arthur French. 

Three thousand copies of the pamphlet, “The Social Hvil,” by 
Chief Justice Taschereau, are being distributed. 

The Committee have sought, by illustrations and talks, to 
increase the interest of the community in the care of the body 
and the correction of unwise physical habits. Owing to the large 
number of drowning accidents, the Committee decided to offer to 
the boys of the city, between the ages of 12 and 17, the opportunity 
to learn to swim free of charge. 

In addition to their regular duties on the gymnasium floor, the 
Leaders’ Corps have been responsible for the Annual ‘“ At Home,” 
the New Year’s Exhibition, a series of Practical Talks, and the, 
Athletic Competitions. Some of the members have been teaching 
in clubs outside the Association. This year a new Corps has been 
formed of High School members, and has done excellent work in 
the Senior division of our Boys’ Department. We have, at present, 
completely-organized leaders in the Junior, the Intermediate 
Business Boys, High School, and Senior Departments. 


vo 


A new uniform, composed of white jersey, dark gray pants, and 
cardinal triangle, has been adopted by the combined Corps with 
much favorable comment. 

The Tennis Club had a total membership of 55. Their team won 
the championship of the city, and also the championship of the 
Province of Quebec in the Intermediate series. The Club showed 
a credit balance of $1.94. 

The Baseball Club played all their home games at the baseball 
grounds at Atwater Avenue, finishing second in the Mount Royal 
Amateur Baseball League. Several out-of-town games were played. 

The Harrier Club began training in May, running on Monday 
and Wednesday evenings and Saturday afternoon. A series of 
summer handicaps were conducted during July and August. The 
thanks of the Club, and of the Department, are extended to the 
authorities of McGill University for track privileges during the 
summer, and for the added privilege of holding the Twelfth Annual 
Field Day on the McGill ground. The day was a great success, both 
in events and attendance. Club membership, 58. 

The Basketball season closed successfully. The usual Associa- 
tion League games were held, with three senior and three inter- 
mediate teams. Our Association team did not play in the Associa- 
tion series, and being unable to play in the City League, owing to 
lack of competition in their class, found it necessary to play out- 
side games. The Committee paid a deficit of $30.00 from last year, 
and show a balance in hand of $0.55. 

The Swimming and Life Saving Club have a membership of 
28. It has taught during the year men and boys the art of 
swimming. The Club is fortunate in having as its leader, Mr. L. 
G. F. Norris, a good swimmer and fine instructor. Mr. Norris renders 
this service voluntarily. He was instrumental in organizing the 
governing body which controls amateur swimming in the Dominion 
to-day. 

The Snowshoe Club tramped regularly on Friday evenings and 
Saturday afternoons. The Annual “ At Home” was well attended, 
and the general interest good. Club membership, 57. 

The Bowling Club has met three nights a week, and interested 
new bowlers. Spoon competitions were held weekly, and the Club 
closed the season with a credit balance of $18.00. 

The Gymnasium Men’s Bible Study Class met weekly on Sunday 
afternoons, at five o’clock, holding thirty class sessions, with an 
average attendance of 24. A group of members met weekly on 
Friday evening throughout the winter for prayer. 

E. C. BUDGE, 
Chairman. 


BOYS’ DEPARTMENT. 


MEMBERSHIP. 

1909 1908 

AUB SCHOO BOVE. 2 1m kin wtf nono, moe 94 
BOIOL SoNOGl BOVE. ble yet) Ful it oe 42 47 
NUMor Business Boys 0icrscss. WS we 4a 149 
Intermediate Business Boys.. .. .. .. 123 140 
: 390 430 

6 


RELIGIOUS. 


A meeting has been held every Thursday evening by the H.A.B. 
(Hustle-a-bit) Club, taking the place of the meeting formerly con- 
ducted on Friday nights. This gathering consists in as many of 
the members as possible taking tea together, adjourning to a 
helpful service, thereby combining the social and religious spirit. 
The average attendance has been 19. The Sunday Morning Song 
Service at the General Hospital has been conducted regularly every 
fortnight, with an average attendance of 36 boys. Bible Classes 
have been held weekly, with a total enrolment of 155. 


PHYSICAL. 


There are now three Leaders’ Corps in connection with the 
Boys’ Classes, the Intermediate Corps having been split into two 
sections, viz., School and Business Boys. 

“Open Nights” have been held for parents and friends, all being 
largely attended. ‘ 

Classes have been conducted for boys desirous of learning to 
swim, and, as a direct result, at least 25 boys have learned the art 
of swimming. 

The Boys’ Harrier Club succeeded in retaining the Cup which 
they had won the previous year in connection with the Montreal 
District Boys’ Harrier League. 

The Summer Camp was successfully conducted for four weeks, 
from June 20th to July 18th, under the leadership of Mr. Holliday, 
assisted by an able staff of leaders. Attendance, 87; an increase 
of 11 over the previous year. 


SOCIAL. 


Snowshoeing, sleigh drives, indoor games, tournaments, and 
social evenings have contributed in bringing the members together 
in a spirit of helpful fellowship. 

The Evening Educational Classes are mentioned in the Hduca- 
tional Department Report. 

At the Silver Bay Conference, held last September, we were 
represented by seven older boys as delegates. The inspiration they 
received has given a decided impetus to the work here, and we are 
looking forward to a like result following the Couchiching 
Conference, in August of this year. 

In reviewing the season’s work, the two most striking facts are: 
First, the splendid success of the H. A. B. Club, which every Thurs- 
day evening has gathered together a group of manly fellows whose 
helpful influence will be greatly felt in the work of the Department 
during the coming year; and second, the unselfish service rendered 
by the Boys’ Cabinet, a Committee whose work has been especially 
noticeable during the Department’s want of a Secretary since Mr. 
Holliday’s transfer to the Senior work. 


LEMUEL CUSHING, 
Chairman. 


REPORT OF SUMMER CAMP FOR 1908, 


The Junior Camp, Mr. W. J. Holli 
on June 20th and closed on July 18th. 
36 Business Boys and 6 Leaders out June 20 to July 4. 
37 School Boys and 8 Leaders out July 4 to July 18. 

i Total attendance 87, as compared with 77 in 1907. 


otal “vetelyisrs ib 5 TiMagels . $1,051 34 
Total expenses.. .. .. .. tine) oe SORQ 
$210 60 


As compared with $154.05 in 1907. 


Mr. Holliday was very fortunate in having for his assistant Mr. 
Donald North, of the Springfield Training School, and reports a 
very successful Camp. Besides the usual games, regattas, socials, 
etc., there were held Sunday services, a daily Bible class, and a 
Friday night meeting, all of which showed good results. A swim- 
ming class was conducted by Mr. North, at which a number of the 
boys learned to swim. 

The Senior Camp opened on July 18 and closed on August 31, 
Mr. W. J. Henderson being in charge from July 18 to August 15, 
and Mr. W. A. McLaren from August 16 to August 31. Attendance 
at Camp was 95, as compared with 121 in 1907. 


Total receipts: 66.2 oles loos . $1,132 65 
Total expenses.. ...... .. :., ~., ,982 96 


As compared with $298.44 in 1907. 
$149 69 


The usual Camp attractions were offered, and both Mr. 
Henderson and Mr. McLaren report a fairly successful 
Services were held twice every Sunday, and were well attended, 
the morning service being open to those living around the Lake. 
We were pleased to have a two-weeks’ visit at Camp from Mr. W. 
H. Ball, of Detroit, our former Physical Director, and are indebted 
to him for the helpful service rendered. The Committee desires 
to thank all those who have in any way helped to make this 
season’s Camp a success, especially the volunteer leaders with the 
Junior Camp. 

Respectfully submitted, 


B. S. R. WATSON, 
Chairman. 


EDUCATIONAL DEPARTMENT. 


The Educational Department serves the young men of Montreal 
through its Classes, Clubs, Lectures, Reading Room, and Library. 
Classes. — Classes are conducted in the following subjects: 
Accountancy (2), Arithmetic (2), Bookkeeping (2), Stenography 
(3), Typewriting (2), Building Construction (1), Plan Reading (1), 


8 


day in charge, was opened 


Matriculation (Part I. and II.), French (3), English for non-English 
speaking (1), Engineering (2), Latin (1), Penmanship and Business 
Correspondence (2), Boys’ Group Course (2). 

Teachers.—In the conduct of these classes fourteen first-class 
teachers are employed. 

tinances.—The amount received in class fees was $2,422.46, and 
the cost of conducting the department $2,522.45. 


Baamination Results.—We note, with pride, the increasing number 
of students who continue their studies for the entire term, and 
write on Examinations, 


Work on which Exam, was based, + By whom condueted, No. a avery 
Students. 

Matriculation, Part I.. .. ..McGill University. . 
Matriculation, Part Il. .. . McGill University... .. .. +. +: 4 
Medical Matriculation.. .. ..Quebec Board (Medical)... ... 2 
Insurance...... -. -- ++ -- Insurance THSHRUGA ce clayey spe Ae 
Civil Service Mathematics. ..Dominion Government... 1 
Commercial and Technical 

Subjects... ..c<. ++ + _ International Committee... ... .. 125 


140 
4 


When we remember that our students are doing this work and 
practically paying its cost, in addition to their work day by day 
in office, store, and workshop, we are grateful that God has raised 
up the Young Men’s Christian Association as a means of helping 
them. 


Socially—The members of the faculty, and the students them- 
selves, have been brought more closely together by means of the 
faculty teas and through the Educational banquet, provided py the 
Ladies Auxiliary. The latter gathering was addressed by Mr. Wm. I. 
Gear, Dr. Frank Adams, and Prof. James Robertson, Principal of 
Macdonald College, St. Anne. 


Practical Talks—In addition to those given under the auspices 
of the Debating Club, Mr. R. J. Younge, General Sales Manager of 
The Canadian Rubber Co., delivered a series of talks on “Salesman- 
ship” to large audiences. The following topics were covered: 


The Salesman with himself. 
The Salesman with his house. 
The Salesman with his customers. 


Debating Club.—This Club was never in a more healthy condition, 
and the debates and discussions were of great value to its members. 
Our thanks are due to the following gentlemen for their addresses 
during the Session: 


Mr. A. Kirk Cameron—“The Poetry of Browning.” 
Mr. J. C. Ross—‘‘The Modern Newspaper.” 

Prof. Wm. Loughead—‘‘Insect Life.” 

Recorder Weir—‘‘Juvenile Courts.” 

Dr. Patterson Smyth—‘‘Social Service.” 

Mr. B. N. W. Grigg—“A Trio of Browning’s poems.” 


, 


9 


CLASS RECORD. 
Percentage of 


Classes. Men. Boys. Attendance. 
Accountancy....... ., as eeeike: rage a 89 
Arithmetic..5.. 7. .. raed al oie le a 5 67 
Bookkeeping... .. .. .. . Betoun tren ticat wad: yall 75 
Stenography.. .. .. .. .. Chak eet mae 3 79 
Typewriting.. .. .. .. eS kl ES 14 66 
Matriculation, Part I.. 1 a Poe puree ee “a 78 
Matriculation, Part IT. Bs icone wae oie A aft 73 
Penmanship and Business Corres- 

DOUOEICS,. yee ke ae 30 80 
Engineering... .. .. .. oe lease! arate. MOF 2 88 
Building Construction.. Rap micts ett Lins 2 76 
Plan Reading.. .. ., 4 LA Se) eae & 64 
BPOnCH ec. ye oe ee 67 oe 68 
ati Tios. cS. ee ge Perr. Waa or 97 
English for non-English speaking 18 rh 81 
Boys’ Group Course... eM afer hem Neves A 28 65 
PR VBICS 2 > ol tanned ee Sad NS bea Aes 8 vs 74 

346 126 


READING ROOM AND LIBRARY. 


The Reading Room and Library continue an attractive feature 
of our work. The best Literary and Technical magazines, to the 


Four hundred and twenty-one members made use of the Library. 
Hight thousand two hundred and sixty-five books were issued as 


BCLION ie sa ee aot oe cool as) ule oY ee OED 
Literature. ©. 30 Sate Miah aad ek 411 
PA ABOUY Mire ore eee Hea tesn> ig Paka ye: 
Biography. Se tad Tinos RM ae taks? SA OTS 
MOIONGO ch Ae Bi) Pinan» suis RecN cos | pee 
Useful Aris.. .. .. Fy) lovslbownd Paonia iene 801 
Hine Arise. pct DRT cd ote Sate 12 
OIC ICHe eee) tel. gt © cee, A) aetn ROO, 
EGU SOUS ee a8 cae oer of iawn. Se eee 
Lanenage) st AP BEN nc Ne as 74 

8265 


W. E. CUSHING, 
Chairman. 


TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE WOMAN’S 
AUXILIARY OF THE Y.M.C.A. 


In presenting our annual report we beg to state that the work 
has been carried on much the same as formerly. 

Hight meetings have been held during the season, from October 
to May, with an average attendance of 14, ry 

An important change in the constitution a year ago enlarged 
the membership to 50, and next year we hope this will tend to 
strengthen the work 6f the auxiliary. 


10 


Sree 


—* 


Our Corresponding Secretary reports letters of sympathy sent, 
and also letters of thanks received from these who received flowers. 

Our Social Committee has, as usual, had to bear the largest 
share of the activities of the auxiliary, having carried out success- 
fully the catering and serving of FIVE large teas, ONE reception, 
and THREE well-attended evening socials, as follows: The Board 
of Directors’ and Committeemen’s tea in May last; in October two 
socials for the new members, and also a supper for the representa- 
tives of the Laymen’s Missionary Movement; in November a 
largely-attended Thanksgiving tea. On New Year’s afternoon the 
usual reception was provided for; different ladies had charge of 
tables where tea, coffee, and cake were served to all comers. In 
April three large banquets were catered for, namely, Campers’ 
Reunion, Educational Class closing, and Physical Department 
closing. The committee feels repaid for all the hard work con- 
nected with these social functions by being privileged to listen to 
the inspiring addresses given in connection with the evening, and 
also by the hearty votes of thanks accorded by the various depart- 
ments. 

The Sunday evening teas held in the building for Bible Class 
and Strangers have been furnished with cake, during eight months, 
seventy-one cakes having been contributed by twenty-four different 
ladies. ; 

The Junior Department have been three times helped at their 
entertainments by our members. 

The Flower Committee has also shared to a considerable extent, 
having sent thirty-four donations of flowers to the sick, and eight 
times provided for decorations, and at teas and social affairs in 
the building. 

The Furnishing Committee have carried out the wishes of the 
ladies in providing necessary table linen and glassware for the 
tables, and also providing seven new pairs of Madras curtains for 
the boys’ rooms. 


The financial statement shows the receipts to be $379 83 
Pix PON dieUveds- rat eei aay ow, <P eee ee 156 04 


Balance on havids . ti. sus jee | eee less on $223 79 


The following ladies were elected to office, May 5th, 1909: 
President—Mrs. C. T. Williams. 
First Vice-President—Mrs. Henry Birks. 
Second Vice-President—Mrs. W. Godbee Brown. 
Secretary—Mrs. Archie Robertson. 
Treasurer—Mrs. Arthur Patterson. 
Corresponding Secretary—Mrs. Ralph Dawson. 
Conveners Social Committee—Mrs. Arthur Bell, Mrs. (om e.3 
Holland, Mrs, George Williams, Miss Currie (Junior Dept.). 
Convener Furnishing Committee—Mrs. John Ross. 
Conveners Flower Committee—Mrs. Ernest E. Millen and Miss 
Budge. 
Convener Finance and Membership Committee—Mrs. Wm. Birks. 
Convener Nominating Committee—Mrs. C. K. Calhoun. 
Respectfully submitted, 
MABELLE A. ROBERTSON, 
Secretary. 


11 


