TWENTY-FIFTH 


ANNUAL BREPOG® 


MONT Bebé 5 
See 370 
187° 


ie tit tt 


>< — > 


OFFICERS AND COMMITTEE FOR 1876-77 
AND oe 


LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS: 


Ae ae 0 


Slontreal : 
D. BENTLEY & CO., PRINTERS, 3644 NOTRE DAME STREET. 


LIST OF OFFICERS AND COMMITTEE FOR 1876-77. 


Jiresident. 
T. JAMES CLAXTON. 
Vice-Presidents. 
R. HENDERSON. §. CALDECOET: 
J. S. McLACHLAN. ye. ks A 
Treasurer. 
JAMES F. SCRIVER. 
Secretary. 
D. A. BUDGE. 
Assistant-Secretarp. 
H. G, PEARSON. 


Committee. 
O. C. EDWARDS. THOMAS CRAIG. 
G. W. JONES... R. H. BUCHANAN. 
J. C. ROBINSON. G. E. JAQUES, Jr. 
OC, Ca SrtiMG, GEORGE YOUNG. 
D. BENTLEY. JOHN CURRIE. 
W. DRYSDALE. ALF. SANDHAM. 
H. A. JACKSON. 5 ae, Bape PATTERSON. 
THOS. ‘ROBERTSON. JOHN MURPHY: 
Ll. PECPAGBARD. N. O. GREENE. 
H. WATSON. HENRY SANDHAM. 


WILLIAM ORR. 
Board of Directors. 


T. JAMES CLAXTON. D. MORRICE. 

E. V. MOSELEY. L.. PATON: 
CHARLES ALEXANDER. N..S. WHITNEY. 
HENRY LYMAN. THOS. ‘CRAIG, 
W. CLENDINNING. R. IRWIN. 

J. TORRANCE, H. A. NELSON. 
GEO. YOUNG. E. K. GREENE. 
W. REID. 


STANDING COMMITTEES. 


(|? <= - 
SAembership. 
R. HENDERSON, - - CHAIRMAN. 
H. A. JACKSON. ALEX. MACPHIE. 


P; SINCLAIR: 
Hooms and Hivrarp. 
G. E. JAQUES, Jr., - CHAIRMAN. . 
W. DRYSDALE. R. H. BUCHANAN. 
H. SANDERS. W. HENDERSON. 
ANission. 
A. SANDHAM, - - - CHAIRMAN. 


JOHN MURPHY. W. SLOAN, 
H. SANDHAM. JAMES SCOTT. 
H. WATSON. W. J, ORGS 
H.W. BUCHANAN, W. L, FRASER. 


JOHN CURRIE. 
Peetures. Classes and Meetings. 
O. C. EDWARDS, - - - CHAIRMAN. 
T: “ROBERTSON. jy. OM. WYARD. 
Wl, B. PATTERSON. WM, SCOTT. 
W: P. RODGERS. 
Himaree. 
S. CALDECOTT, - - CHAIRMAN. 
ie McLACHLAN. bi He PACKARD, 
GEO. YOUNG. Ey BY SAREE. 
Wie Ps PATTERSON. N. O. GREENE. 
1D. (BENTLEY. THOS. CRAIG. 
JOHN MURPHY. 
Emplopment. 
N. O. GREENE, - - CHAIRMAN. 
H. WATSON. CAPT. McELHENEY. 
DA“ BUDGE: : H. G. PEARSON. 
Envitation. 


J. R. ROBINSON, - - CHAIRMAN. 
And 15 Members. 


Visitation. 
GEO. YOUNG, - - - CHAIRMAN. 
Ww. O. BUCHANAN. ° JOHN CURRIE. 
W. JORDAN. 
Reception. 
H. SANDHAM, - - - CHAIRMAN. 
5 C HORLTOR, G. W. JAMES. 
A. SELLER. JOB, &.. THOMPSON, 
W, BRISEY o>: FE. Bi STREET. 


R. W. OAKES. 
Hoarding House. 
D..A; BUDGE, H. G.. PEARSON. 


NNUAL REPORT 


Another year in our history as an Association, with all its op- 
portunities and privileges, has passed away, and we are still spared 
to sing ‘‘ Praise God from whom all blessings flow.” In presenting 
this our Twenty-fifth Annual Report, we cannot do so without ac- 
knowledging with deep thankfulness to God, the way in which He 
has led us during the past quarter of a century ; for while many 
others with more congenial surroundings and a larger field for work, 
have fallen by the way, we have been led forward continually, and 
the past year has been the brightest and best of them all. While to 
some servants is given the privilege of scattering the incorruptible 
seed, and it remains for other hands to gather in the harvest, we 
have not only been permitted to sow the seed, but the joy of the 
reapers who came Jaden with the ripened sheaves has also been 
our portion; and it therefore becomes us, as a Band of Chris- 
tian workers, to walk very humbly before our God, and to give all 
the praise and all the glory to Him to whom it belongs. 


The character of the daily routine work im the Rooms has been 
of such a nature as to render it almost impossible to embody it in a 
report. The Association seems to be recognized as a sort of general 
encyclopeedia, and the young men who call on your Secretary are 
now so numerous and their wants so varied, that the question of 
supply becomes a very difficult one indeed. Words of encourage- 
ment to the desponding ones, and counsel to those in difficulty are 
freely given, and in cases of extreme necessity, assistance is ren- 
dered, and, when possible, the opportunity is used of pressing the 
need there is for a personal interest in Christ, who alone can direct 
and sustain in these times of trial and difficulty. Instances have 
occurred wherein these words dropped by the wayside have sprung 
up and brought forth fruit, and man’s extremity has proved to be 
God's opportunity. But before going into the detail of our general 
work as an Association we would express the conviction which we 


6 


hold very strongly, that the influence of Christian character and of 
individual work carried on under circumstances and with results 
which can never be tabulated, must ever be the great object to be 
attained. 


MEMBERSHIP. 


During the past year our Membership List has undergone a very 
careful examination, and 490 names have been taken off; of these, 
many had left the City, others refused to pay their fees, and some 
desired to withdraw. The difficulty of keeping a correct list, when 
so Many young men are constantly changing their addresses vr leay- 
ing the City, is very great, and we would feel obliged if members 
would notify us of any change. We have had 171 new members 
added during the year, and our revised List now stands as follows: 


Active Members......... Cae eS theta ean Me bls 
PERMIT G0) iy os ha one ie eae See a ae aka 
MeO ee ek 5 eS ei ag aad: gogeeoc: aan 


RLOROIRRY (eid! Ws ciallalouwidieed ieee 


er 


PON oo. Ge bie ke heal heute eee 


The membership fee is so small that it scarcely warrants em- 
ploying a collector, and we would therefore urge upon the members 
the necessity of promptly sending their remittances, 


READING ROOM AND LIBRARIKS. 


Our Reading Room still continues to attract a large number 
of readers, both during the day and evening, and we have constantly 
on fyle 15 daily papers, 50 weekly papers, and 23 monthly magazines, 
besides a large amount of miscellaneous literature. Many young 
men who are out of employment appreciate the privileges which it 
affords, and those in crowded boarding houses are enabled to spend 
quiet and profitable evenings, and in many cases are saved from 
haunts of vice. A Reception Committee has the special work of 
looking after the Room in the evening and of giving a welcome to 
those who come, and in every way in their power, endeavoring to make 
each young man feel perfectly “at home.’ The importance of the 
work of this Committee cannot be over-estimated, as “ first impres- 
sions ’ are generally lasting. 


7 


The lower Reading Room has been closed during the year. and 
D . > ’ 

the papers removed upstairs. It has been fitted up and rented as 
a store in order to aid in paying the interest on the mortgage. 


Our Circulating Library contains about 2,000 volumes, and 
we are indebted to Mr. J. C. Lonsdale for a donation of 50 vols ; 
and Mr. W. Wilson for a donation of 14 vols; also several authors 
have kindly sent us their new publications. If any of our friends 
can aid us further in this way, we should be glad to receive their 
donations. The number of books borrowed during the year has 
been about 1,000. Our Reference Library consists of 343 volumes, 
and has been used to a very great extent, as it affords young men 
an opportunity to consult books of reference which they have not 
the means to secure. It is greatly used by Sabbath School teachers. 
We have room on the shelves of this Library for many valuable 
books of reference, which would be a great boon to our members, 
but which we have not the means to procure. A complete catalogue 
of both Libraries has been published and can be had from the Sec- 
retaries, 


MEETINGS. 


During the year we have held 953 religious services, 624 of 
which have been held in the Rooms. The 


DAILY PRAYER MEETING 


has been held regularly, and with a better attendance than last year, 
while a healthful tone has generally pervaded it. Many have found 
it to be a fertile spot in a desert city life, and the stranger has often 
gone on his way rejoicing. 


BIBLE CLASSES. 


We are glad to report an increased interest in the study of the 
Bible, and during the greater portion of the year two weekly classes 
have been sustained, with a varied attendance at each of from 20 to 
70. The Association Bible Class on Tuesday evenings was re-or- 
ganized in May, under the leadership of Capt; ah. C: Adams, but 
having found it needful to resign on account of ill health, the work 
was taken up by Mr. Alfred Sandham, and has been continued with 
growing interest and spiritual profit. The one on Sabbath after- 
noons is conducted by the Secretary, and the attendance is princi- 


8 


pally made up of those who have no settled church home, and those 
who are gathered in by invitations on the streets. Three young 
men are now teachers in Sabbath Schools who were converted in 
this class. 


With a view to meet the social and intellectual wants of the 
young men, a weekly 


‘PARLOR MEETING ” 


was sustained for about two months. At each meeting an interest- 
ing and instructive address was delivered, the remainder of the eve- 
ning being spent in music and conversation. ‘These meetings were 
much appreciated by those who attended. We are indebted to the 
following gentlemen who delivered addresses: Prof. A. Duif, Rev. 
Dr. Somner, Rev. Dr. Wilkes, W. J. Patterson, Esq., Rev. G. H. 
Wells, T. 8. Brown, Esq., Mr. Septimus Fraser. 


“YOUNG MEN’S MEETING. 


The Social Religious mecting for young men held on Saturday 
evenings has been numerously attended, and the scene of much en- 
couragement and blessing throughout the entire year, and very 
many bright jewels have been plucked as brands from the burning, 
and enabled to rejoice in bearing testimony to the power of the Gos- 
pel. The attendance, which is seldom less than 100 young men, is 
secured mainly through invitations given on the streets and in the 
Billiard Rooms and Saloons by the Invitation Committee. In this 
way many are brought to hear the Gospel message who might not 
be reached by any other means. The unflagging interest in this 
meeting and the known results in actual conversion (instances of 
which we could here give did space permit) have caused us to real- 
ize that with God all things were possible. The informal and so- 
cial nature of this service has made it very attractive. 


THE BOY’S PRAYER MEETING 


Is held every Friday evening, and has been remarkable for its 
usefulness and earnest spiritual life. At times the attendence has 
reached over 200 lads, and many of them have been influenced by 


the earnestness and consistent Christian life of the leaders to give 


themselves to the Saviour. 


( 


Two Boys Prayer Meetings have been organized in two of our 
Sabbath Schools, the result of the conversion of some of their scho- 
lars at this meeting, and many teachers have acknowledged the 
influence which it has had upon their boys. The propriety of hold- 
ing such a service with a careful and wise supervision is placed 
beyond question, and we trust that God will continue to add His 
blessing. 


YOUNG CONVERTS’ CLASS. 


During most of the year a class was held on Thursday evenings, 
in charge of Dr. O. C. Edwards, for the assistance of young con- 
verts, and the work accomplished was undoubtedly very beneficial 
to those who attended. It was discontinued because the Chairman 
had not control of his time. 


SABBATH SCHOOL TEACHERS’ MEETING. 


The noon meeting on Saturday is specially set apart for Teach- 
ers, and the Review of the International lesson has been conducted 
by one of the City Pastors. This has not been so largely attended 
as we expected, but an effort is now being made to have it brought 
more prominently before each Sabbath School teacher in the City, 
and we trust the interest will become more general. 


SUNDAY EVENING MEETING. 

This meeting which commences at 8:30, after the Church ser- 
vice, has been conducted regularly throughout the year, and with 
very special continued blessing. Short Gospel addresses are deliy- 
ered by Members, City Pastors, and visiting Brethren, and the ex- 
ercises are of a varied and informal character. An Enquiry Meet- 
ing usually follows the first service, to which those anxious about 
their soul’s salvation are invited to remain, and many are found 
enquiring ‘what they must do to be saved.” The Hall has now 
become to small too accommodate the numbers who are drawn to 
this service. Many are induced to attend who either cannot or will 
not go to our churches, and in this way are brought under the power 
of the Gospel. Roman Catholics are frequently found amonest the 
enquirers, and we have reason to believe that some at least have 
been set at liberty. Much prayer is necessary for wisdom and 
guidance with reference to this particular meeting. 


B 


10 


Besides these regular weekly meetings, we had over 
125 SPECIAL SERVICES 


on the occasion of the visits of distinguished Brethren. On invita- 
tion Mr. W. P. Crombie, Travelling Secretary of the Executive 
Committee, spent two months with us, and Evangelistic meetings 
were held each evening during his stay. They commenced in our 
Hall, but were afterwards removed to the Theatre Royal. The 
blessing which resulted from these special services cannot be estim- 
ated; drunkards were converted, skeptics and infidels were com- 
pelled to yield to the power of the truth, the careless were awakened, 
and the hesitating were led to decide. A careful record of the 
names of the enquirers was kept, and these were duly forwarded to 
the ministers of the different churches for which they expressed a 
preference, and many of them are members in good standing of these 
churches. 


The amount of expense incurred in connection with these ser- 
vices was $464.25, of which, $418.75 was raised by special subscrip- 
tion. : 


During the summer we were favoured with a visit from the 
Rev. A. N. Somerville, of Glagsow, Scotland, whose Bible Readings 
and powerful Gospel addresses were greatly appreciated and blessed. 
He was followed by Mr. G. CU, NEEDHAM, the “ Irish Evangelist, ”’ 
who spent a week in giving two Bible Readings daily; and in the 
month of September we were privileged with a visit from Mr. HENRY 
Moornouss, England, who spent a fortnight in giving Bible Read- 
ings and Gospel addresses. God be thanked for the souls converted 
through this means of Grace, but especially for the impulse 
eiven to Christians in awakening an increased desire for the study 


of God’s Word. 


THE MISSION WORK 


Tas been conducted with greater earnestness and on @ 
larger scale than on any previous year, and much known 
blessing has been the result, Instead of the usual cottage 
prayer meetings in private houses, public rooms or school- 
houses were secured whenever practicable; and the meetings 
partook more of the nature of a Gospel service. Meetings 


11 


were organized in seven different localities, viz:—Papmeau Road, 
Lagauchetiere Street, Quebec Gate Barracks, Mile End, Desrivieres 
Street, Hochelaga and Point St. Charles, and were continued regu- 
larly during the winter season on Friday evening of each week. 
Conversions were reported at each station except one, and the ser- 
vices at Mile End and Point St. Charles were especially blessed. At 
the latter point the attendance reached as high as 150, and the in- 
terest became so great that three services were held weekly for a 
short time. Many are the testimonies to the blessing which has 
resulted from this meeting, and a pastor of one of the neighbouring 
churches stated that he had received several additions to his church 
directly through its influence. To God be all the glory. This 
service was continued through the entire summer. 


Although not directly in connection with the Mission work, a 
meeting has been held every Sabbath afternoon in Joe Beef’s saloon, 
conducted by our Bro., Mr. Joun Curriz, and aided by mem- 
bers. This has been a most difficult field of labor in many respects, 
and yet the proclamation of the Gospel has proved to be the power 
of God unto salvation unto many souls. Young men who have been 
well educated, and have seen brighter and better days, are at last 
through the power of sin reduced to the lowest extremity, and are 
compelled to eat the bitter fruits of disobedience to God. Many — 
such are found here in this saloon, and to them the Gospel comes 
as ‘‘ glad tidings,” and inspires hope, which had been almost crushed 
by sin. As a result of this service, several young men have been 
plucked as brands from the burning, and are now amongst our active 
members and occupying positions of trust in the City. ‘Two or 
three brethren have also aided every Sabbath evening in the service 
at the House of Refuge. 


TRACT DISTRIBUTION. 


This branch of the work, as heretofore, has been confined al- 
most exclusively to the Harbor. The ships have been regularly 
visited each Sabbath, and, in this work, over 75,000 Tracts have 
been distributed—40,000 English, 25,000 French, and 10,00 
Foreign. An invitation has been printed on each of these Tracts 
to the services held in the Sailor’s Institute. 


12 
HOSPITAL SERVICES. 


This is one of the most interesting fields, and tender hearts 
and loving hands are continually required to minister to the multi- 
tude who are lying at this Bethesda, waiting for the troubling of the 
water. Many precious jewels are found here, who shine out the 
more brightly because they are passing through the furnace ; while 
others, ere they pass away, have reason to thank God for their af- 
fliction, as they have found pardon and peace, although at the 
eleventh hour. There are sad remembrances also, of those who on 
account of continual unbelief have been compelled to go through 
the ‘dark valley” alone, and some of these will never be forgotten. 
A service for the convalescent patients has been conducted every 
Sabbath morning at 10 o’clock, and, while not large, it is full of in- 
teresting incidents. 


In connection with these Mission services, about 50 of our 
members have been employed, and while striving in some humble 
way to carry a blessing to others, their own souls have been richly 
blessed. 


The funds required for the Mission work was made the subject 
of special praver. and He in whose name the work was undertaken 
l ) 


has provided the means, as per statement :— 


Cash received from friends (unsolicited)......$ 77.75 
Paid—D. Bentley & Co., Printing...$ 22.00 


Gazette pam Neer Fo | 
W.Drysdale & Co. Hymn Books 11.65 
Rent, St. Lawrence 8. House 8.00 
Pt St Charles: .) aac kee 
Ballou Portus :\.. 004 .se0e aad See Me 
Am. : Tract. Society...) ..csss 0 7.50 

——— 72.09 

Balance in hand...... $5.70 


INVITATION WORK. 


The Committee which have this work in charge have labored 
very zealously during the past year, and with most encouraging re- 
sults. They meet each Saturday evening at 7:15 o'clock, and after 
spending a few moments in prayer, take their respective posts on 


the corners of the principal thoroughfares, and distribute these in- 
vitation slips to the young men who are passing along. Some are 
detailed to the Hotels, Billiard Rooms and Saloons on the same 
errand; and in this way 95,000 of these Gospel invitations have 
been distributed. We believe that ‘‘ His word shall not return un- 
to him void,” and this is ‘“‘ Bread cast upon the waters, which shall 
be seen after many days.” One young man received a slip with 
the word ‘‘ Kternity’’ printed in large type, and though he imme- 
diately threw it away, he could not cast it from his memory, and 
it was the means of causing him to stop in his downward career, and 
turn to Jesus for pardon. Many young men have been rescued from 
the Billiard Rooms and Saloons, but eternity alone must reveal the 
results. The work is of the most uninviting character, as those en- 
gaged in it are submitted to all manner of insult, and yet they have 
taken up the Cross and borne it nobly, and they shall not lose their 
reward. Many of God’s children who were passing through the 
City have been by this means informed of our services, and the 
cheering words which they have spoken have caused our workers to 
take fresh courage, and go forward, leaving the results with Him 
in whose name the service is undertaken, 


VISITATION OF THE SICK. 


We are glad to state that but few of our own members have 
required the services of the Visitation Committee during the past 
year, but, whenever reported, they have received prompt attention. 
They have regularly visited the General Hospital and administered 
to the sick and dying, and voluntered their services amongst the 
poor, and wherever opportunity offered. About 150 visits have thus 
been made by members of this Committee, and three cases are re- 
ported in which they were used of God in bringing the Gospel of 
peace and pardon to weary souls, who gave testimony ere they passed 
away, that ‘“ there is life for a look at the Crucified One.” 


WORK AMONGST THE FIREMEN, 


This important class in our City seems in the past to have been 
overlooked. Their dutics prevent them from attending church, and 
they are ina great measure shut out from all Christian influences. 
During the past year, our Brother, Mr. William Orr, in company 


14 


with others, commenced a systematic visitation of the Fire Stations 
on Sabbath mornings, while other brethren were visiting the Sailors, 
and they were very kindly received. Tracts and papers and books 
are carried to them each week, and the words of thankfulness which 
they receive in return show how much this service is appreciated. 
Although many of the men are Roman Catholics, they seem none 
the less eager to receive the papers, and we can only trust that it 1s 
one of the many ways of sowing the incorruptible seed which shall 
be gathered in by some one in the great harvest field. If any of 
our friends have suitable Books or Magazines for which they have 
no further use, and would kindly send them to the Secretary, they 
would be placed, through this Committee, in the hands of the Fire- 


men. 
“THE CHRISTIAN WORKER.” 


This Magazine, published under the auspices of this Associa- 
tion, by a Special Committee appointed for the purpose, was con- 
tinued until June last. This completed an issue of twelve months, 
which they had been instructed to carry out The General Com- 
mittee, considering the object for which the magazine was estab- 
lished had not been accomplished, thought it desirable to discon- 
tinue its publication for the present. The title and form has been 
registered, and can be issued again when desired, 


EMPLOYMENT AGENCY. 

The continued depression of business has rendered it very dit: 
ficult to secure situations for the number who have applied. Over 
163, however, have been directed in their search for employment, 
and 35 young men have been placed in situations. A much greater 
number have applied to us, but we have endeavored to entertain 
only those whose references were satisfactory. Many a young 
man, through the assistance rendered in this way, has become an 
attached member of the Association. 


OUR BOARDING HOUSE REGISTER 
Has been in very great demand. We have the names of 66 
on the list, and over 120 young men, many of whom come as entire 
strangers to the city, have been directed to suitable boarding- 
houses. 


te a eee, ~ ee eee. SE OO Be aca 


15 


We have supplied writing material free, and over 2,100 letters: 
have been written in the Rooms during the past year. 


We have to regret the removai from amongst us of several of 
our valuable workers, but we are pleased to know that they have 
not forgotten the service which they have learned to love. Our Bro- 
ther, Mr. Geo. H. McIntosh, who was a member of the General 
Committee, and one whom we all esteemed very highly, was com- 
pelled, on account of ill-health, to return to Scotland; and a paper 
which we received recently, informed us that at the Annual Meeting 
of a similar Association in his native town, he had been unanimously 
elected President; and he referred in the kindliest terms to his 
connection with this Association. 


On account of a business engagement, our Brother, Mr. James 
A. Gould, was compelled to go to Sherbrooke. Sherbrooke had no 
Association, and he at once commenced a Young Men’s Prayer 
Meeting, which has since developed into an active Association, of 
which he is Secretary. They report many conversions among their 
young men. 


Mr. H. C. Patterson was also called to Cornwall, and he gath- | 
ered the young men ‘together into a small meeting, which has re- | 
sulted in the permanent organization of an Association under the - 
most favorable circumstances, a deputation from this Association 
having been present on that occasion. 


While we regret the loss of these our active workers, we real- 
ize that the “ field is the world,” and rejoice to know that where- 
ever they go they are raising the Banner of the Cross as the only 
standard under which the young men of our land can safely enlist. 


We have received many calls during the year to send members 
out to country towns and villages to hold Gospel services; but our 
home claims have pressed so very heavily upon us that we have not 
been able to supply the demand for workers. “ Truly the harvest is 
great, but the labourers are few. Let us pray therefore the Lord 
of the harvest, that He would send forth labourers into His har- 
vest.’ During the year our Association has been called upon to 


supply the pulpits in several Mission Churches of our City, and 
have been able to fill the appointments. 


16 


In conclusion , we desire to express our sincere thanks to all 
those who have in any way aided us in our work, and especially to 
the City Pastors who have always shown us such hearty sympathy 
and co-operation, and we may say that never were we so strongly 
impressed with the magnitude of our task as now, and never were 
we so much encouraged. 


The following are a few of the many letters received from 
young men who have been converted during the past year, which 
will speak for themselves :— 


“ MontTREAL, January, 1877. 


“ Dear Mr. Bupgs, 

“<Qut of the fullness of the heart the mouth 
speaketh.’ My heart being full of gratitude to a merciful God, I feel that 
I should like to tell you a little of my history. Born and brought up in 
England, well educated and with every possible advantage, I might by 
this time have occupied a good position in life, At the age of 19 I left 
home, to serve my articles to the profession chosen for me to follow. All 
went well for a time; but by degrees I became acquainted with several 
young men who lived for this world only. My next step was to entirely 
neglect to attend any place of worship. Strictly attentive to my duty, 
however, I retained the respect of my employer and of all with whom I 
was associated. But the evil seed was sown and destined to spring up in 
due time into open rebellion against God. <A love of strong drink was 
slowly, but surely, making a perfect slave of me. _ Two years, the term of 
my articles, having expired, J returned home, and, for a time, settled down 
quietly enough ; but, alas! in about twelve months, that dreadful drink 
again laid hold upon me, and no earthly power could avail. The prayers 
and entreaties of many very dear relations and friends proved utterly in 
vain, The sudden death of my father left me entirely dependent on my 
own efforts. With a character already stained—a reputation well nigh 
Jost—-I was not without kind and sympathetic friends, who rallied round 
me, and did all in their power to guide me in the right path. I promised 
—nay, swore that I would reform. But what was all that without the 
‘Everlasting Arm’ to support me? Three times I signed the pledge, only 
to break it as many times. At last I lost the confidence of every one, and 
was obliged to leave the country of my birth. I reached Quebec early in 
September last, then on to Montreal. Homeless and friendless, I continued 
in a life of dissipation and sin. Very soon I was reduced to the very 
lowest state of poverty and degradation. I had made up my mind to get 
away to sea, for I nad not a cent left. One Sunday I was staying at Joe 
Beef’s in the greatest misery, when Mr. John Currie came in and conducted 
'a Gospel service. Never shall I forget that day. For the first time I 
realized my awful position, and trembled before the presence of an offended 
God. I spoke to Mr. Currie after the Meeting, and candidly told him my 
feelings He listened to me with the greatest kindness, provided for my 
immediate wants, prayed with and advised me, and arranged to meet me 
at the Y.MC.A. the next morning. I need not say how gladly I availed 
myself of his offer. On that Monday evening I signed the pledge again ; 
but, thanks be to Ged, I had Christ to help me, through whom I can do 
all things. Since that time, by the grace of God, I have been enabled to 


Lt 


abstain from strong drink, and with the joy of salvation in my own heart, 
to tell others of ‘Jesus and His love’ I can safely say that the happiest 
moments of my life have been spent in the rooms of the “'Y.M.C.A., and at 
the various meetings in connection therewith. Bound together by the in- 
separable ties of Christian love, I have met with the greatest kindness from 
the brethren of the Association, who are ever ready to give a word of ad- 
vice and encouragement. The burden of my former life of sin is entirely 
removed, and my once guilty heart cleansed in the precious blood of a 
crucified Saviour. Truly I can say that ‘Old things are passed away: be- 
hold ali things are become new,’ That God may continue to bless you in 
your good work to the glory of His own name, is the constant prayer of, 


“ Yours sincerely, 
ce ? 


ne ec nee 
. 


The following is from a coloured young man, who was on 
board one of the vessels, He received an invitation on the street, 
and came to our meeting, which resulted in his conversion :— 


“ Lonpon, Eng., Dec. 13th, 1876. 


Mr. Bupes, 


“ Dear Friend,—I have taken the liberty to write you to let 
you know that we arrived safely, although the ship leaked and we got 
aground once. But there was one friend who never left us—the Lord Jesus 
Christ, my Saviour. * * %* %* _ I ask you to pray for me, that 
the Lord would be with me in all my temptations, and keep me from sin. 
There were no Christians in our crew, but God sustained me, and He is 
able to keep me. The Lord be with you all and bless you is my earnest 
prayer. 

“ Yours sincerely, 


The following is from a young man who came into our meet- 
ing when intoxicated, and had to be taken out; but it led to his 
conversion during the next week. He then went to work on the 
N.C. Railway as stone mason :— 


“GRENVILLE, October 6th, 1876. 


“ Dear Mr Bopaz, 
“T write to you according to promise, hoping it’ will 
find you in good health as, thank God, I am enjoying the same blessing. I 
have commenced work, but I found it rather lonesome at first, as I greatly 
missed the meetings. But, thank God, although I can’t hear His Word so 
often, I know He is always with me. I find great comfort in His Word, 
and asking His blessing, and I am sure He is answering my prayers. 

“ Dear Sir, do pray for me, as I need them very much, as it is a very 
hard place here, and the men that I am working with are pretty rough. 
But I know what they are, as I am pretty well posted among them ; but, 
praise God, a new creature to what I was when I last worked among them. 
Some of those that knew me were rather surprised when they saw me 
going along the line last Sunday handing out those tracts you gave me, 


Cc 


18 


May God bless those little tracts, as the men were quite eager to get them. 
I went into one shanty, and the men seemed anxious to get them ; I could 
hardly serve them out fast enough. I intend going further along the line 
next Sabbath, ifGod spares me. I think you may send some more up next 
week, if you will be so kind. Iam sure they will do good to some poor 
soul. JI pray God may spare me in health and strength to work for Him 
while I am up here, as. they do need Christ very much. May God bless you 
all in your work ig my prayer for you always. 


“ Believe me to remain yours, 
“A Brother in Christ, 


4 ” 


~ 


The following is from a young man whose conversion was the 
means of that of his wife—a Roman Catholic—and a family resi- 
ding in the same house. 


MontTREAL. 


“ Dear Mr. Bupas, 

“T never can thank God enough for what he has 
done for me and my family through attending your meetings. Every Sun- 
day used to be spent in drinking and quarreling and blasphemy, and I 
made many promises to my wife and to God that I would give it up, but I 
never could. After a terrible spree last spring, I feared God would cut me 
off, and wanted to go to church, but my clothes were not good enough. 
I heard of the meetings in the Theatre, and went at once, and the first 
thing I saw, was “ Escape for thy life,” “Flee from the wrath to come.” 
The words that were spoken led me back to my father’s death bed, who 
was a Christian, and the kind loving advice of my mother ; and I resolved 
to continue at the meetings until J found what it was to be a Christian. I 
feared to remain to the enquiry meeting, but went home and hunted up 
my Bible and read the 3rd of John, but I did not understand it. I re- 
mained to the enquiry meeting the next night, and was led to see that 
‘whosoever’ meant ‘me,’ and I was saved. I gave my wife no peace until 
she came and received the blessing, and also a family in the same house. 
I thank God for the meetings in the Theatre Royal, for I know many like 
myself who would not go to church because they were not well enough 
dressed, May God bless the Y. M. C. A. and all the workers, for Christ’s 
sake. 

Your Brother in Christ, 


MonTREAL. 
‘Dear Brotruer Buper. 


“Tt is now twelve months since I first entered 
the Young Men’s Christian Association. I was then a sinner and a drunk- 
ard, but, thanks be to God, since I have given my heart to Christ, I have 
been able to overcome that accursed soul and body destroying evil—liquor 
—and I am ever indebted to Brother Budge for the kind and able assist- 
ance he has given me in giving my heart to Christ ; and I hope through 
God’s assistance the Association will succeed in bringing all those who 
have been led astray into the path of peace. 


“ Your Brother in Christ, 


19 


The foregoing is but a very brief statement of the labours of 
the past year, as much of our work can never be embodied in a re- 
port. ‘The record of the conversions we have not kept, but imper- 
fect and inadequate as our efforts have been, we know that many 
young and promising lives have been rescued from the snares of 
worldly pleasure, and devoted to the service of Christ, and that 
many a mother’s heart has been made to rejoice. With these re- 
sults, we can only thank God forthe honour thus conferred upon us: 
of being permitted to be co-labourers with Him in such a great 
work; and with humble confidence commend the future of our 
Association to Him who has so richly blessed us in the past, and 
who has promised to do even greater things than these. “ There- 
fore, my beloved brethren, be ye steadfast, immoveable, always 
abounding in the work of the Lord, inasmuch as ye know that 
your labor is not in vain in the Lord.” 


Dt Ae BUBCE. 
Secretary. 
MontREAL, Nov. 28th, 1876. 


20) 


a "Smee 


| 6° 800'°9 ——=—- 


G9 1ZL‘9$ G9 [ZT‘9S 

Li BGP a et SET Se See Ss pean eRe «40 spel UI DOUBT eg 

BF e69'G EEN DES ee mace + he See ai 
OE OO Trt te ese eee *yUN0908 pun Surpling preg 
EQ1Z PSD AA SS Et PES Oe a ae ee 

“SLIYD 1) JO JUNODOB UO BULOGSO “V “MA “qT pleg 

00° 068 PES RE SES Sa es ae UO 4s0.19}UT 
€e°PrPEel @e@e@eetevee* cesses ***"*soripung pur sures 
GZ’ I6IL SE To On Ss Sader pee o1niiain gs 
Ge° LP pitt nese tasse deed «oteee sein y guaroAguog 
96°1¢E 9) O28 28 08s Bye eg sy ae aos “°° sosuodxny AIVSIOATUUW 
GZ 96 oeesevee Rie te Exle ahenn teas * OOBLLIB,) pur o8e4s0g 
€l’e6 @ereove seeerreeeeress gosuedxY SUIT[eAvL, 
F6°SIZ Prete ee tee cere eee e ee eees oeee QoUBNSUT 
0Z°29 Kats & 6 erareck SEES SEES ee Ae ee 
ez cee Senses tas ¢ set <2 see sts os aaa png ge 
go's 2 8: 88 OOO. 88 “6 GIO Oe- 6 10, OOo o> B86: Ws ee SUISTPIOAPW 
PL'LT tase e stp e nhs t2 Sis «7 peoMET pee syoog 
6S°GE sorece eeeree**STBOIPOLIEg puy srodeds.ao N 
86°Z0E eavees semecs cesses ATOu0IEIG pure sunumg 


00° 0r6'I¢**** Cease ee ea reese 


SINAWAVd 


9.6.0 0.2 6 +6 .0 @."¢ 


ers ees SOLIBvI VS 


60°S 
0S°6I 
9°SE 


es'ogs‘t °° 


00°S9¢ 
€9° 79S 
OS 11h 


« 


08°Zz0'eh °° 


1° Z11¢ ooeoe ee ee eve 


. 


° 


no Se eek 


“*** srodeg jo o[eg 


a BOO oeee eevee 2S Pan JUD[OADUO 
"Te seeece sess SmOIssimMmog Yydeisolay, 
"Te seeees sess S910} JO SOXBT, pue JUOY 


0480. 60 e SS OO Ce. 66 8 Oe SO. ie Smee 


I[¥H JO Jusy 
SUOTPIITTON 


Seer eee woos Beene 1* 9990 7 diysioq uta 
eee ee coe *** sUOTZBUOGg pur suolndrmosqng 


"*** S187 ‘Te soqutooaq ‘puvy ur souvreg 


‘SLd THON 


Sr ee ee ee eS 


‘9fgr ‘Ist WHEWADAG ONIGNY UVAA AHL YWOA LNAWALVILS 


es 


UOYRMOSS YY ULYSLYD saapyp Sunog prayuoye 


21 


LIST OF SUBSCRIPTIONS, 


Angus, William...... 
Angus, By 54 
Alexander, (OF & Sons. 
Anderson, R es Maen ie 
Ayer, A. A. 

Ames, Holden & Co... 
Andres, ‘Dr. 


Anon. . ao: ole amuses ae. Seve 
Ault, Chas.. 5 00 
Ar mstrong, G. Fa eile: een 2 00 
Bank of Tor ONG, Loa 50 00 
Brydges, C.J. oech 30 00 
Baillie, Warnock &Co 1000 
Botterell, A ge > Gane: 10 00 
Botterell, | heh : Saas Gea 10 00 
Brown & Claggett.... 1000 
BISGOL, PAS Cee b 10 00 
Barry & Campbell.... 10 00 
Bishop, George...... 10 00 
Buchanan, WO 5. 20 00 
Burton, Po Hye oy. e308 
Bentiey. Bho cies vege 10 00 
Buchanan, Harold... 5 00 
Brush, George. 5 00 
Brown & Bros., Ji as. 5 00 
Black & Locke...... 5 00 
Benen, Wei Dee 5 00 
Baylis, James........ 5 00 
Brodie, John......... 5 00 
Bell, Joshua A....... 5 00 
Brissette M. H....... 5 00 
Brows th Mee i 2 5 00 
Brodie & Harvie..... 3 00 
Claxton, T. James.... 250 00 


Cons’d Bank of Canada 25 00 


Court, James.. 
Crather n& Caverhlll.. 
Clendenning, W...... 


Cochrane & Cassils. . 

Currie & Co., W. & BE 
Campbell, DRS URS 
UE Ma es obs oss 


Childs, G. 

Cassils & Camer on.. 
Corristine, J......... 
Corse, N. SREY 
Cantlie, Ewan & Co.. 
Cushing, Chas.. 
Cochrane, Geo. erie 
Cheney, G. Ue ueake 
Caldecott, S.. ie 
Clare WeoH eevee se: 
Cumming, pe ene 
Cooper, Fairman & Co 
Crawford, John.. 
Cleghorn, Efe sap ne 


25 00 
25 00 
25 00 
22 50 
20 00 
20 00 
10 00 
10 00 
10 00 
10 00 
10 00 
10 00 


1876. 


nee Por W. Tees. . 
ash.. 


Carvili, Barr & Co.. 
Childs, PRS sie ca ds 
Cash . ROO hoa gk Bate 
Covernton, i ee 
Dougall, 7 & Son.. 
Dun, Wiman & Co.. 
Dunn, R. & Co. 
Duncan, POP ii 2 Ge 
Drysdale, W. & Co.. 
Darling, W. & Co 
Lor 2 Aa a 
Darling, Pia sal choo 
Dakers, James. . f 
Dougall, PAA oa diets 
Dutton, W. C.. 

Ewing, S. H. & A. g., 
Eveleigh, Joseph..... 
Evans, Edward PAV SOUS 
Elliott, Phillips & Co. 
Kvard, We cat we oy 
Ferguson, P. F.. 
Fraser, J.. 

Fish, Shepherd & Ce.. 
Fulton, AS eae aa 
Greene, E. K.. 

Greene, George A 
Gault, Bros, & Co.. 
Garth, Chas. & Co.. 
Grafton, PLE). 
Greenshields, D. Be: 
Gould, Joseph Pauls o\6 
Gould J. & Sons...... 


Graham, Ww. AIR 4 
Graham, Geo. eae 


‘meagre une 
Hodgson, Jonathan.. 
Hodgson A. & Son.... 
PLCHOy, Bt oy. 
Heney & Lacroix..... 
Hutton & Co., Jas. . 
Huntington, Hn, L. H. 
Henderson, W.. 
Henderson, R. a: 3 
Holland & Cushing. - ue 
Henry & Wilson... ... 
RROUTV BoC oe 
Hall, Kay & Co;....: 
Tlenderson, T. M..... 
Hamilton & Massey.. 
ES CLR & ial Ghee en Unaae nay 
Ives, Fa ee oe nee . 
STWR OM oe ook Ds 


OS Or on 
oco 
ooo 


2 00 
1 00 
1 00 


: 200 00 


25 00 
20 00 
20 00 
10 00 

5 00 


Jaques, G. E. & Co... 


Jamieson, R. C. & Co 


Jack, J ames lores RLM a iear) 
J udge, E 


King, Wiad ‘i 


Lousuite. Ky G. 
Lewis, W. F. & Co. 
Lawrence, W.V 
Learmont, 4 a 
Lyman, Henry... 
Leeming, POR. Pe 
Lainskail, ek 
Linton, Jas BUNA nls NN 
Lord, Major & Munn. 
Leggatt & Johnson... 
Merchants’ Bank..... 
Molsons Bank ....... 
McKeown, R......... 
Murphy, J no.. ae 
McLachlan Bros.. 
McKay & Bros. Jos... 
Morton, Phillips & 

Bulmer my eat 
Matthewson, J. A.. 
Morrice, David Me tery 
McLennan, 1: Oa Wi 
Moseley, Ve 
Miller, R. gest 
Munderloh, W. Pole eRe 
Moss, G. W.. 


McMaster. W. o:% 
McLean, John & Co. 
Macfarlane, Duncan,. 
Mussen, Thos Pires eae 
Morton, He 


Milloy, FE a ea 
Morton, Ree settawets e 
Mattinson, Young 

eS ce 
Merry, W. A. 


McArthur & Son, Pe 

Matthewson & Co.. 

Morrison, McLean 
ae 


McNaughton, D.. 
McFarlane, David... 
McGibbon & Baird. . 
tc: 
Mooney, es Are 
McDonough, Wes 
MeKeand, A... .. .¢. 


Murphy, John........ 
Moffatt, Alex........ 
MAORI Bess sis os a 


Nelson, H. A. & Son.. 
Notman, Wi... 55% 
Nield & Co., E....... 
Olver Te eas cas 


Oxenden, Bishop..... 
Ogilvie, Wm..3.55.4% 
Popham & Co., J..... 
Paton, Laird oo... 
Picken, Jno, B.. 
Patton, R.. 

Pinkerton, Bae 
Phillips, omy aN ; 
Patton, Thos......’... 
Prowse, TREN ais wee 


Perkins, A M.. ; 
Packard, 1. Hi. & Co.. 
Payne, Ae aR 
Perse hs. cs esse he 
Parsons, 8. Bid cscs. 
PM dG Te: 
Reekie, R. James.. 

Reid, Ww. : 
Rankin, Beattie. & Co. 
Robertson Linton 


Pee Wd sca 
wees, TB. kaso vial 


22 


SUBSCRIPTIONS—Continued. 


Richardson, Jas...... 
Rae, Jackson...... 


Ramsay, A.. ‘ 
Rattray, J. & Coes 
Robinson, H. L...... 


TOO. WV Me etait 
Reford & Co., R..... 
Robinson, A. W...... 
TO, DABS vecaed ds os 
Ramsay, R.A......... 
BINGO, VE is aca wees 
Reid. William. ;.....; 
Stephen ,Geo. & Co.. 
1) oe See eee 
Sanbern, Hon. Judge. 
Savage & “aaa See 
Scholes, Fy, : 
Schneider, Te. 
Savage, A. & Son.. 
Shaw, ls. elvis 
Shorey, H. & Co...... 
Shearer, Mc Kedie 
Co 


Scriver, J. BSE 
Spence, ik oe 
Snowdon, AeA ate Vai 
MIR PROH, Oe ek sees 
Smith, CG. Fe... 
Sumner, George..... 

Stewart James,.. . 
Samuel Woy yiy eee. 
Snowdon, J. J...... 


Snowdon, C. C. & Co. 
Seath; Job: 2.4 6..i4. 
Rpenoe, Boo ig 


Simpson, J) Oi... 
Torrance, Hon. ee 
Talbot, 1 ‘ 

Taylor, Mga rs 
Turnbul., Pere eae 
Thompson, Job C.. 

Taylor, Tames... 03. 
1008 Broek od ale ce 
SOy OE es igh 
ye Ad UO es SP 
Vipond, McBride & Co 


Watson, js Be 


Williamson, Jas. & Co 
Wilson, James R..... 
Watson. R.G........ 


Walker, Joseph... ... 
Williams, Miles...... 
Warminton & Philbin 
Whiteside, F. R.. 

Wilson, W Ce abe hie ang he 
Young, (Feorge or... 
Yuille, W. & D. yas Le 
Dr. Beers... See wok 


