YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 


ANNUAL REPORT 1962 


ONE HUNDRED AND ELEVENTH YEAR 


ANNUAL REPORT OF 


THE YMCA IN GREATER MONTREAL 


INCLUDING 
MONTREAL'S SHARE IN THE 


INTERNATIONAL AND NATIONAL WORK 


The Board of Directors takes pleasure 
in submitting to the members the Annual 
Report of The Young Men's’ Christian 
Association of Montreal for the year 


ending December 3lIst, 1962. 


This report covers matters affecting 
the Montreal Association as a whole. 
Detailed reports of all branches, and 
Schools have been submitted and ap- 
proved af their respective meetings 
and are included in the records of each 


branch. 


METROPOLITAN OFFICES 
Hy t DRUMMOND STREET 


Downtown Branch 
Ih! Drummond Street 


International Branch 
5550 Park Avenue 


Lachine-Dorval Branch 
4955 Provost Street 


Lakeshore Branch 
2)6a Lakeshore Road 


THE YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION 


OF MONTREAL 


Northmount Branch 
1455 Rochon Street 


Notre Dame de Grace Branch 
335 Hampton Avenue 


Verdun-LaSalle Branch 
7105 LaSalle Boulevard 


Westmount Branch 
4585 Sherbrooke Street 


Eastern Communities 
5550 Park Avenue 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY 


135 DRUMMOND STREET 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS SCHOOLS 


135 DRUMMOND STREET 


Evening High School 


Business School 


School of Art 
School of Retailing 


Elementary School] 


CAMPS 


Kamp Kanawana 


St. Sauveur, Quebec 


Camp Otoreke 
St. Adolphe de Howard, Quebec 


Voyageurs de la Verendrye YMCA Ski Lodge 


La Verendrye Park, Quebec 


Christieville, Quebec 


MDE K 


MEMBERSHIP 


FOCUS -- A RESUME OF BRANCH PROGRAM: 


CANPS: 


Central Branch 
International Branch 
Lachine Branch 

Lakeshore Branch 
Northmount Branch 

Notre Dame de Grace Branch 
Verdun-LaSalle Branch 
Westmount Branch 

Residence 

Counselling 


Boys & Girls 
Otoreke' Adult Lodge 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS SCHOOLS 


FINANCE AND PROPERTY 


WORLD SERVICE 
PERSONNEL 


INTERNATIONAL AND NATIONAL WORK 


APPRECIATION 


METROPOLITAN OFFICERS 


STATISTICAL REVIEW 


PAGE 


SIA] NONI EEN ne) sa 


\O ©0O 


MEMBERS Hi! P 


The year end showed a total of 28,885 
led. In addition, there were 1,560 registered non- 
members participating in various specific activities 
during the year, while a total of ),025 campers were 
enrolled. This included 2097 resident campers and 
1,928 in summer day camps. Different individual mem- 
bers in 1962 reached a total of 9,229 with the cam- 
pers included. The figures below do not include camp 
enrollment or registered non-members. 


members enrol- 


Total at 
Dec. 31/62 


Different Members 


Membership by Branches During the Year 


Central ame yg 6,453 
Lakeshore bo jae 2,919 
International 2,20 1,069 
Notre Dame de Grace Seent 1,595 
Northmount 1,620 705 
Lachine-Dorval 1,741 L, 0 

Westmount 1,610 9 

Verdun-LaSalle 9,8 605 


Eastern Communities Transferred to International 


Sir George Williams University 


and Sir George Williams Schools 16,889 13,538 
TOTAL h5,19\ 28, 885 , 
By Sex 

Male 20, 51 

Female Py: 

By Age Per Cent By Age Per Cent 
Under 12 3, 886 13.0 25 - 2 3,927 1h.O 
l2 = th 1,052 .0 40 - 3 2,329 8.0 
8 = OF 2, 740 9-5 35 & Up 331,95 12.0 

18 - 2) 10,759 37.0 Unknown 99 2.5 


FOCUS -- A RESUME OF CITY-WIDE PROGRAM 
VALUES FOR LIVING --= A FRESH FOCUS 


In 1954 the Montreal Association sef in motion a long-term 
examination of ifs goals. Religiously and philosophically 
fhe YMCA strives for the development of Christian person- 
ality--the virile, honest, industrious and responsible man. 
Upon this basis, a fresh statement emerged in the form of 
"Values for Living". In this process, the overall! program 
goals of the Montreal YMCA have been sharpened to one of 
"Value Education" for young people. 


THE "FIFTIES" -- EXPERIMENTATION 


In the setting of the 60's, if the YMCA was to maintain its 
vital role as a character education force in the community, 
not only more clearly defined purposes buf new education and 
program techniques were needed. By the close of 1959, new 
program techniques had been tested in a number of "pilot" 
experimental projects in branch and camp settings. 


THE "SIXTIES" -- INNOVATION 


During 1960-62, the findings of our research in values and 
in education techniques are to be found infused in the var- 
ious elements of program. 


There has been a growth in the number and intensity of lead- 
ership projects across the city. The emphasis has been on 
strengthening the quality of leadership and counselling for 
program in all phases--from University faculty development, 
to youth and adult clubs and physical health classes. 


A program for staff training and development in 1962, has 
been approved by the Board and is becoming fully operative. 
It provides individual post-graduate study grants and also 
total staff, group training projects, and city-wide staff 
meetings with emphasis on new insights of contemporary in- 
ternational educators and religious leaders. 


The establishment of Founder's Day, in 1962, as a commemora- 
tive celebration now offers an opportunity to bring together 
the total lay leadership of the Association with focus on 
Christian character education projects and formal education 
within the YMCA. 


CENTRAL BRANCH 


In the sheer matter of quantity, statistics. indicate that 
in the YMCA on Drummond Street many people are finding the 
things they want and need. Attendance totalled 517,218 per- 
sons who participated in program events during 1962--an in- 
crease of 25,000 over the previous year. 


Following a critical evaluation in 1961, no new activities 
were introduced in '62 but a great deal was accomplished in 
oerfecfing methods and techniques to increase the success 

of existing programs. Conscious of its downtown "Inner City" 
role, Central Branch operated a series of 10 specialized re- 
creational and educational projects for young adults under 


the title "Montreal Panorama". In the Adult Education Centre, 
60), people registered in 4) adult classes. This is double 
the 1961 figure. The development of a class council! fostered 


a unique learning climate and a unique undertaking in col- 
lective program responsibility by young adults. With the 
success of Europe '61, a two week travel-educational program 
was presented in 1962. Twenty-three people visited Porto 
Rico, Jamaica and Haiti. The program was designed to give 
visitors an understanding of the culture, the politics and 
the economics of these three Carribean islands. Participa- 
tion in the enormous physical program at Central Branch con- 
tinued to grow even larger but there has been a noticeable 
shift in interest from the relatively narrow idea of fitness 
to the broader concern for physical health. The visits of 
T. K. Cureton and the efforts of committees and staff have 
contributed to this new awareness. 


INTERNATIONAL: BRANCH 


In 1912 the Montreal YMCA opened its Park Avenue Branch. 
Sweeping changes have taken place in this area of the city 
and the YMCA has been a dynamic part of this community in 
transition. The Branch operated a full range of program 

for its 2,420 members which included a youth and teen club 
project, boys and girls physical program for 800 youngsters, 
and a full fledged evening schoo! of English and French 
language instruction for 787 registered adults. Although 
these evening language classes have received great attention 
for their success over the past two decades, it should be 
noted that 1962 evidenced a marked return of the Branch to 

a broad spectrum of program, serving the youth, teen and 
young adult needs of this community. 


LACHINE BRANCH 
During recent years, Lachine Branch has put first priority 
on program for teenagers, primarily through Hi-Y clubs. One 


staff person has devoted almost full time to this important 
work and it is hoped, as a result of 1962's efforts, to double 


a = Be 


the present seven teenage clubs to fourteen. 


Last year teenagers also took part in swimming and life sav- 
ing, various leadership functions, Teen Lounge, dances and 
the very successful Driver Education Course which was offered 
in cooperation with the Lakeshore Kiwanis Club and the Quebec 
Safety League. 


Boys and girls 8 to 12 years of age acquired new skills and 
friends in the following programs: Gra-Y clubs, art class, 
gym and swim classes, day camp, handicrafts, stamp club, curi- 
osity club, highland dancing and baton twirling. 


Adults and young adults took major responsibility for leader- 
ship in their own groups which included Badminton Club, Kool 
Korner Klub, Ladies Hobby Group, Men's and Ladies! Gym, Swim 
Class and 20 informal educational classes. 


LAKESHORE BRANCH 


Established as a branch in 1956, construction of a new head- 
quarters building for Lakeshore climaxed two years of plan- 


ninge The new building will provide effective administration 
for the widespread YMCA program in the area. It also pro- 
vides a centre for essential leadership training. 


A remarkable single achievement of the Lakeshore Branch in 

1962 was the construction of a swimming pool at the Isle Perrot 
Day Camp site. Water pollution. cancelled swimming at the 

camp site but I! days later instruction was resumed in a new 
60! by 40' concrete pool. The pool will continue to serve all 
branches using this site for day camping. 


Membership in the Branch rose to 2,919 and shows a remarkable 
community position for Montreal's youngest YMCA branch. 


In line with the Montreal Association's priority emphasis on 
teenage clubs, programs were expanded to reach more teenagers 
than ever before, and a Teens and Twenties’ Club was established 
to reach young members of the community who are employed and 
find a vacuum after their previous high school! associations 
drop away. 


NORTHMOUNT BRANCH 


Three program projects stand out as highlights in the year's 
activities at Northmount Branch. The children's Day Camp pro- 
gram has been greatly improved, in quality and in quantity. 
More leaders were employed, more intensive training was given 
to all camp leaders, counsellors and staff and the net result 
was a significantly superior Day Camp program. Parents, al- 
though asked to pay a higher fee than ever before, were ex- 
tremely pleased with the high quality of the fun and learn- 


- - 


ing experiences their children reported to them day after 
day. 


In line with the Montreal Y's priority on teen programming 
in recent years, Northmount devoted one staff person's full 
energies to development of High School Hi-Y. Clubs are now 
fully operative in the Mount Royal-St..Laurent district and 
as a new extension unit over 100 teenagers in the Roxboro 
area have indicated their interest to form Hi-Y clubs. Tem- 
porarily lacking in program facilities for teenagers, these 
outlying communities are seriously in need of this extension 
program from Northmount. These students presently commute 
Le igh. Sepool jin St. Laurept. 


Refinement and improvement of course offerings in the evening 
adult education courses is the third main highlight at North- 
mount. There has been a keen demand for Art, Great Books dis- 


cussion, Sewing and Keep Fit Classes for women. It is hoped 
that, out of these more formal class groups, new continuing 
friendship club groups will be formed. 


The Branch, in total, served 1620 members and program regis- 
trants during the year met in a total of 3037 group sessions. 


NOTRE DAME DE GRACE 


Continuing developments in programs of health and fitness, 
character education, and leadership training were the features 
of NDG Branch work in 1962. 


Over 5000 persons were enrolled in the programs, including 
members, registered course members, leaders, advisors, coaches 
and committee personnel. 


The most significant overall aspect of the program work has 
been the priority emphasis on regularly scheduled leadership 
training and presentation of frequent opportunities for 
leadership experience for members in every age level. Hi-Y 
club advisors, gym instructors, teen club officers, coaches, 
and all members in leadership roles have gained by this 
"across the board" advance on leader training. The project 
has been undertaken on a planned and scheduled basis to sup- 
port the efforts of the volunteer leaders, and most important 
to fulfill the YMCA's task of training leadership for the 
community. 


Formal classes, persona! counselling, leadership evaluation, 
and supervision are all combined with 'on the job leadership 
experience' as some of the techniques involved in the com- 
prehensive project. 


To give a-dimension to the “leadership” activities in NDG, 
there were 623 program groups organized in the branch last 
year with attendance of 1Il2,000 operating under )05 group 
leaders, instructors, advisors, coaches or committees. 


VERDUN-LASALLE BRANCH 


The year 1962 showed a total membership of 605 at year end. 
Camp Onlyoak and the Y's Men's Softball League marked good 
gains to make up for continued dropping off of boys and 
girls gym craft and swim programs. Verdun is a unique com- 
munity which now enjoys one of the largest complexes of pub- 
lic and private recreation program facilities in the Province 
of Quebec. In this context, the role of Verdun-LaSal le YMCA 
has been to create top quality opportunities for smal! group 
programs, special skill courses, and intensified leadership 
training experiences for a core group of young people and 
adults in the area. 


The new building which was erected four years ago as a leader- 
ship training centre is a physical expression of this radical 
change in YMCA program for this district. The new emphasis 

has been on development of Hi-Y clubs for teenagers. There 
are Ih clubs now in operation. Through joint conferences, 
meetings, physical program and officer-leader training courses, 
these young people are gaining a top quality character ed- 
ucation experience. 


Among their special undertakings was a four session project 
with the Family Life Education Council which brought togéther 
parents and adolescents to explore the normal family conflicts 
at+ this, critical Jife.siage. 


WESTMOUNT BRANCH 


Physical program for men and women and youngsters captured 
the poet taahs and international fame for Westmount Branch 
in 1962. 


Two of the Westmount Y's Fencing Club members, Ben Simo and 
Car! Schwende, were members of the Canadian team in the 
British Empire Games at Perth, Australia in August, 1962. 
Mr. Simo won two silver medals and one bronze, and Mr. 
Schwende took one silver medal and two bronze. 


An advanced gymnastic group for young people (17 and under) 

was inaugurated in 1962. Under Don Cockrane, a top gymnastic 
instructor in Montreal, there is already evidence of excellence 
within the group of 40 boys and girls. 


Westmount Y also acquired honors when the new Ladies Volleyball 
Team won the Montreal Women's Volleyball! Championship. 


oe 


The 26th Annual Learn to Swim project enrolled 304% youngsters 
in a series of 20 fessons. To assure top quality instruction, 
the 404 registrants were broken down into small class groups 
or ity To 1%. 


RESIDENCE REPORT 


The Residence continues to attract and serve young men from 

all over the world. Some come in groups for ourposes of sfudy 
and sharing of knowledge under the "Colombo Plan" or "The 
Experiments in International Living" - others include trainees 
from Industrial-and Business Groups, both from home and abroad. 


As.a "Porf Cify', and.as a@ major metropolitan cify;° Prev tnt tux 
to Montreal of young men seeking help, advice and accommodation 
is a constant concern of the 'Y'. In one day, last year, 

young men arrived from Liberia, Norfhern Rhodesia and Greece. 


There wete; 23,202 men registered in Residence during the year. 
Of these, 1,178 applied for weekly rates and were interviewed 
by the Residence Secretary. Since most of these are young 
men who are strangers fo Montrea!, these interviews cover a 


wide variety of topics, such as - Jobs, and how to locate them 
- Program, and its use in order to get acquainted - Housing 
for families and, personal problems of all kinds. 


COUNSELLING 


Counselling with individuals is a daily occurrence in the 

"'y', Personal interviews help hundreds of members work through 
for themselves problems related to their education, health, 

sex behaviour, religion, employment and marriage. The prin- 
cipal objective of personal problem interviews is the adjust- 
ment and personal growth of the individual. The professional 
Counselling Service of the Central Branch has greatly widened 
the scope of our professional help to individuals. 


In the University Counselling Centre, a summary of activities 
for the year shows a total of over 4500 appointments with the 
professional counselling staff. In addition, over 000 ap- 
pointments were made on either an individual or group basis 
for psychological testing. The Placement Officer reports 760 
interviews with students, 2747 student interviews with em- 
ployers, and 887 job placements. 


Colin McKay was appointed Director of Otoreke in May 1962 
and, under his supervision, the tradition of strong camper 
participation in camp program planning and administration 
has been continued. Otoreke served 695 women and 812 men 
campers in ifs May to September season. In addition, eight 
organizations made use of the camp for study conferences. 


Improvement in the facilities kept pace with long range 
plans to increase the "comfort level" of the camp without 
decreasing its original rustic flavour. 


In the light of changing times in Quebec, an interesting 
footnote to the '62 season was the marked increase in French 
Canadian campers. The committee has been alert to see in 
this a unique opportunity for the Montreal YMCA to bring to- 
gether, on a common friendship basis, young men and women 
from the English and French communities of our Province. 

The committee acted promptly to enlarge itself with the ad- 
dition of several French speaking members and looks forward 
to a new experience in "cross-cultural" programming. 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY 
DEVELOPMENT AND EXPANSION 


In January 1962, a public announcement was made that Sir 


George Williams University would erect a ten storey build- 
ing at Burnside and Bishop. A city unto itself, the 
building will provide audiforia, classrooms, laboratories, 
student facilities, cafeteria services, etc. This vast 
expansion, developed by the Planning Committee of the 
Board of Governors, will enable the University to increase 


enrollment to 5,000 Day and more than 40,000 Evening stu- 
dents. This growfh is our response to the unprecedented 
need for higher education opportunities in this community. 


The Principal appointed a committee of Faculty members and 
Administrative Officers to systematically study the content 
of the proposed building as wel! as to consider the fufure 
use of the present building. Our needs were forwarded to 
the Architects so that sketches could be drawn prior to de- 


tail drawings and specifications. Sketches were ready by 
June 1962 and a completion date of September '1966 was ac- 
cepted. 


Preliminary cost calculations by the Architects were pre- 
sented to the Provincial Government in September 1962 in 
order to open negotiations as to the amount of money the 
Provincial Government would invest in Sir George. 


DR. HALL NAMED PRINCIPAL EMERITUS 


The University and the entire Montreal Association marked 
with pride the appoinfment of Dr. H. F. Hall as Principal 
Emeritus of the University and Schools. His appointment 
was made known in June by fhe Board of Governors as an 
honorary acknowledgement of his years of extraordinary ser- 
vice to the University for 37 years. Dr. Hall retired from 
the office of Principal and Vice-Chancellor at the end of 
the academic year. The new Principal and Vice-Chancellor, 
Robert Canon Rae, came to Sir George in 1956 as Dean. The 
subsequent series of senior administrative staff changes 
are noted in the employed officers section. 


FINANCE 


The fiscal year 1962 continued to show the projected in- 
creased income. This growth was due mainly to higher tuition 
fees for students in the Evening University and a result of 


increased student enrollment in the Day University. The 
statutory government grant, under Bill 58, which is re- 
lated to Day University enrollment also showed an increase 
in the fiscal period. 


For internal administration purposes, the University and 
Schools have been separated in their financial reports. 
This separation is now providing a more adequate cost anal- 
ysis of both the University and the Schools. As a result, 
it is expected that both units will be in a better position 
fo control costs and determine adequate fee income levels 
in the future. 


ACADEMIC DEVELOPMENT 


A table shows the courses offered in 1962-6% compared with 
1961-62. This comparison illustrates, apart from increased 
student enrollment, the clearest indication of growth in 
the basic activity of the University. 


Day Division Evening Division Total 
961 1962 1961 1962 1961 (1962 


: le 

Full Courses | fi 16e-/FF 219 185 ho2 35 

“Half Courses | Abe pge/ 209 199 363-343 
TOTAL™ 260 232 32h 285 58h. 517 


*Total course offerings have been computed by equating two hal f- 
courses as betmg equivalent to one full-course.) 


In terms of "total courses" as defined above , there was an 
increase of 67 courses in 1962-63 over 1961-62, an increase 
of 13% in course offerings. 


( 


Looking towards the future of the University, special com- 
miftees are actively studying extension and development of 
graduate works; the increasing of opportunities for research, 
scholarship, and original work by members of faculty; a 
widened cultural life for the University community; and a re- 
Organization of faculty structure. 


The full-time faculty of the University was augmented with 
twenty-one new faculty members. There were two resignations. 
The part-time faculty was increased by appointment of nine= 
teen new instructors for Day and Evening Divisions. 


REGISTRATION 


The tables shown below set forth the academic enrollment in the 
academic years 1961-62 and 1962-63. 


1961-62 
Summer 1961 Academic year of 1961-62 
(Evening only) Day Evening Total 
Arts 936 9),8 188 ara 
Science 72 532 1150 1682 
Commerce oT 522 H2 ge 
Engineering - 61 75 14 
Partials 576 I) 1770 178) 
2611 2077 6285 8362 
1962-63 
Summer 1962 Academic year of 1962-63 
(Evening only) Day Evening Total 
Arts 994, 1162 2108 3270 
Science 92 6) bihs 179), 
Commerce 652 a4 121 1985 
Engineering 26 68 63 13 | 
Partials 391 8 165 1653 
2555 25 | 6382 8833 


The degrees and certificates awarded by the faculties of the Univ- 
ersity for the academic year 1961-62 were as follows: 


Degrees Fall ‘61 Spring '62 Total -'61-'62 
Bachelor of Arts % 220 294 
Bachelor of Science 28 109 147 
Bachelor of Commerce 59 11] 150 
TOTAL DEGREES Io ho 580 


Certificates Fall '6l Spring '62 Total -'61-'62 


Associate in Arts 7 xi 2h 
Associate in Science Ps 4 
Associate in Commerce 2 h 6 
Certificate in Engineering 8 12 20 
Diploma in Association 

Science a 2 10 
TOTAL CERTIFICATES 20 hs 65 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS SCHOOLS 
THE EVENING HIGH SCHOOL 


During the summer of 1962, there were 1462 students registered in 
8 classes with 2245 subjects and an average of }16.8 students in 
each class. There were six classes in Grade VIII, six in Grade IX, 
eleven in Grade X and twenty-five in Grade Xl. 


When classes started on Monday, September 2lith, we had registered 
3205 students in the High Schoo! and II6 students in the Elementary 
School. The present registration in the High School is 34326 and 
Ih in the Elementary School. ; 


Students who come to this evening school do so from a variety of 
motives. Chiefly, they come to improve their academic standing with 
the hope, which is generally realized, that this will bring promo- 
tion and economic advancement. The desire for knowledge for its own 
sake offen follows this urge for economic advancement. 


Some students come here with the intention of keeping ahead of their 


children and sometimes to keep up with husband or wife. If is gra- 
tifying to find sa many people who are trying to find the purpose of 
living and wish to get into some profession like teaching, nursing, 


or social work where they can give service to others. Many house- 
wives, whose children have grown up, come here to get started on the 
road to greater self-development and fulfilment. 


Students who work at a full-time job in the day and come to school at 
night have many problems and difficulties to conquer and there are 
many examples of courage and perseverance under great odds. Many are 
confused and discouraged and are glad to be able to come to the office 
and talk about their troubles. It is gratifying, indeed, when we can 
help these students to carry on. 


ne hy = 


THE BUSINESS SCHOOL (DAY AND EVENING) 


January 1962 started off with 204% students in our Day Business 
School classes, compared to 195 in January of 1961, showing a 
slight increase. 


We graduated a total of 102 students from the Day Division, and 
76 students from the Evening Division, two of the largest groups 
in the Evening Schoo! being Business Correspondence and Type- 
Witt Tlinig. 


THE SCHOOL OF RETAILING 


Eighteen students graduated from the School of Retailing on 
May 16, 1962. This is a smaller number than usual, but emphasis 
is still being placed on keeping a high standard of graduates, 


rather than increasing the number of diplomas granted. 


The reputation of the School has spread all across Canada, for 
this year students have registered from Vancouver, 8.°C. “fo 
Ste Johns, Newfoundland. One store in Newfoundland has sent 
two scholarship sfudents fo the School of Retailing as the last 
two years of a three year training programme. 


THE SCHOGL OF ART 


Mro He Leslie Smith assumed the directorship of the School of 
Art, succeeding Mr. John Stewart. Enrollment in the School is 
steady with 26 students registered, as compared to 258 students 
in 1961-62. The annual exhibition of art was held in the spring 
and was well received by critics, teachers and the public. A 
graduation ceremony was held on May 40th and 15 students re- 
ceived diplomas and prizes. 


DIPLOMAS AND CERTIFICATES AWARDED -- All Units -- 1961-62 Graduations 
High School 305 
Elementary School fp 
Business School 
scnool ef ‘Art 15 
School of Retailing 18 
TOTAL h97 


— 


REGISTRATION: 


1961-62 
Summer 1961 
(Evening only) 
High School bis LJjaF 
Elementary School - 
Business Schoo] 
- Day 109 
- Evening 317 
School of Art e 
School of Retailing = 
TOTAL 1571 
1962-63 
Summer 1961 ¥ 
(Evening only) 
High School 13h 4395 
Elementary School - 
Business School 
=~ Day 9h WX 
- Evening 330 263 
School of Art ae 
School of Retailing - 
TOTAL 1767 


= 6 <= 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS SCHOOLS 


Academic year 1961-62 


Day Evening Total 
2 29 29h | 
- 119 119 

250 

72 | 97! 

107 I5 | 258 

5G = i156 


h1z 3932 35 


Academic year 1962-63 


Day Evening Total 
- 3326E7 3326 4,962 
- Livi Nh ye 
2h 292 


686 £87 930 %e/ 
88 TZ. 158 We 216 26 
9 =, aes 60 62 


392 3h -y706 


F 


NANCE AN D P R-O-UP - RP ¥ 


A new approach to Campaign planning was introduced in 1962. 
The objective, for the first fime in many years represented 
the consolidated estimated needs, based on projected budgets, 
of all operating units and was approved at a meeting repre- 
sentative of every segment of the Association. 


This objective of $285,000, representing a Ih% increase over 
1961, presented a formidable challenge to al! workers and par- 
ticularly to the Special Names Division where the larger part 
of the additional funds were to be sought. The final report 
showed a total of $267,670. from 1,235 donors or 9% greater 
than 1961. While the higher goal was not fully reached, the 
results represented a substantial move forward in the effort 

to keep pace with expanding financial needs and were considered 
excellent under the circumstances. 


Mr. Ho Roy Crabtree as General Chairman gave vigourous leader- 
ship in the organizing stages and the advance canvass and est- 
ablished a standard difficult to surpass. In his unavoidable 
absence during the public phase, Mr. John D. Houlding, Vice- 
Chairman, maintained the momentum, gave excellent direction to 
the organization and personally added much to the morale of all 
meetings. Mr. R. Aw Irwin, as Chairman of Special Names for 
the second year, again set a high standard of teadership in this 
area. The Divisional Chatrmen, enlisted by Branch Boards of 
Management from the Association lay ranks, once again demonstra- 
ted the vitality of the teadership which is related in a con- 
tinuing manner to work of the 'tyYy', 


The publicity, under the direction of H. T. Markey was excellent 
and reflected some changes in media and emphasis, particularly 
in brochure content and radio and T.V. 


The organization again included more than 2000 volunteers which 
when related to extensive canvassing territory gives some indic- 
ation of the impact of the appeal. The probiem of completing the 
task within a two week period continues to be a matter of con- 
cern. 


Mr. W. F. Macklaier, Q. C., a member of the Metropolitan Board 
and long-time member of the Association, gave a most inspiring 
message at the opening dinner, speaking with deep sincerity 

and profound conviction. Mr. Macklaier was able, ouf of his own 
personal experience, to validate his delineation of the Role of 
the Association in the contemporary world, and thereby add a 
dimension to his statements, not always possible on such occa- 
sions. 


BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES 
Lakeshore Bui Iding 


Construction commenced on the new two storey Headquarters build- 
ing in Pointe Claire for the Lakeshore Branch with completion 
early in 1963. This building will provide approximately 116,000 
cueft. of space at an estimated cost of $1.50 per cube. 


Once again unusual items of building renovation and repairs were 
extensive and included in the following: 


Drummond-Stanley Building: - 


Conversion of the 5th floor residence (Drummond St.) into Metro- 
politan General Offices and Faculty offices for S.G.W.U.3 con- 
version of former Metropolitan offices into meeting rooms; en- 
fire renovation and refurnishing of 43rd floor Stanley Street for 
exclusive student usage; and extension to Business Men's Health 


Club facilities by rearrangement of locker room space. 
Sir George Williams University:- 
Extensive internal changes in Library facilities to increase ef- 


ficiency of this service. 

Westmount Branch: - 

Extensive gymnasium equipment replacements. 
Notre Dame de Grace Branch: - 


Roof renewal, refinishing Gym floor and extensive equipment re- 
placements. 


Northmount Branch: - 

Extensive renovations and equipment replacements 
International Branch: - 

Roof renewal and installation of emergency lighting. 
Camp Perrot:- 


Installation of an outdoor pool for summer camping use, the 
river water having been condemned. 


ENDOWMENT FUND 
A strong Endowment Fund Committee under the Chairmanship of 
J. R. Crawford made significant progress during the year in 
augmenting endowment funds, illustrating in a very real way 
the latent possibilities of aconcerted effort in this field. 
Anonymous os 500.00 
Estate F. L. Benedict 1,980.00(Further payment on 
Bequest) 
Estate W. F. Brass 053.98(SWorld Service) 
J. R. Crawford (Life Assurance) Pr peg 00 
H. R. Crabtree m » 5,000.00 
Imperial Tobacco Co. &, COO00 
0. Ge Hetonne!t (on afe) 1,000.90 
J. W. McConnell Foundation 25), 000%. 00 
We. Ge MeConnel | , 000.00 
J. D. McKeown |, 000.00 
C. W. Webster ei, O00 
F. Weinstein (Life Assurance) 10,000.00 (Sir Geo. Williams Univ.) 


We Oo RP LOD = 2) ReYI Ce 


Again the Montreal Association maintains 


of being 
counted on to support 


Launched 7h years ago, the 
establish YMCA's in h6 of the 
which fhe YMCA now operates 


its traditional role 


in the vanguard of North American YMCA's which can be 
World Service undertakings. 


World Service program has helped to 


83 countries and territories in 
During the year 55 professional 


staff members served at home and abroad including 2 fraternal 


secretaries in 432 countries. New work was launched in Guate= 
mala and Uganda. 

The Y's global membership today encompasses over four million 
men, women and children. There are ten thousand centers in 
operation. The YMCA family represents almost every race, creed 


and nationality known to man. 


YR CA 


Internationa 


Geoff Anderson, a 
working with fhe 
Lebanon. This 
"i lliams University has 
Other Fellowship Students, 
Meyer participated in a 
USA-Canadian team associa 
young adults. 
assistance of 
of inestimable value 
the number of World 


Wm 
2ted 
imei v idualliss 
to the 


Service 


Is 


Fellowship student, 


is the second year that a student from 
been related 


work camp 
with 
these experiences, made possible by the financial 
YMCA groups, 
individuals 
interpreters 


spent his summer 

| Committee at the refugee camp in 
sir e@eorge 
such an assignment. 
Douglas, Fred McGregor end Gordon 
iv Lites! Peri, plant “af a 

én equal number of Peruvian 


9 


e 
a 


<S 


and service clubs, were 
concerned and increased 
locally. 


In addition, the use of World Service films including the latest, 
"Unofficial Ambassadors", distribution of printed material in- 
cluding leaflets, periodic use of the Reporter, and the circul- 
ation of 560 copies of the World Communique rounded out the inter- 
pretive activities. 


During the year, three men brought their knowledge and enthusiasm 
to Montreal audiences on this important world-wide enterprise. 


Jack H. Dunderdale, a Canadian with a tong experience in India 
and now associated with the World Alliance in Geneva, out of his 
rich experience shared important information about the Far East. 


Dick Cooper, fraternal secretary from India, who had a most signi- 
ficant experience in that country in raising Buildings for Brother- 
hood funds, was most effective in describing the significance of 
that undertaking. 


Stanley Susan, fraternal secretary from Bolivia, was used to stra- 
tegic advantage in the campaign amongst the Sir George Williams 
University students. 


Implementation of the projects envisaged in the Buildings for 
Brotherhood program, for which $80,000. was secured in Montreal, 
continues. IO projects are on blue prints, 38 projects have 
been completed, construction is proceeding in 58 cases and local 
campaigns are still being conducted in beneficiary countries. 


A significant forward step during the year was the completion of 
a study of all World Service Centres conducted by Dr. Robert King 
Hall. His recommendations are now being studied by administra- 
tion committees. Perhaps one extremely important facet of the 
project was the effect on Or. Hall himself. Starting out as an 
objective, discerning layman, he emerged as an enthusiastic sup- 
porter of the World Service idea and made significant observa- 
tions on how the program might be strengthened and improved and 
become more closely integrated into the ongoing loca! program. 


In the combined picture the financial results as at December 31, 1962 
were as follows: 


BUILDINGS FOR BROTHERHOOD 


OBJECTIVE ACTUAL 
Accepted 
Goal Cash 
North America $ 6,251,000. $$ 6,179,58. $5,369,658. 
Canada 05, 77. 396,796. 312,639. 
Montreal 80,000. 80,000. 80,000. 


WORLD SERVICE 


OBJECTIVE ACTUAL 
North America $ 1,80), 728. $ |, 738,870. 
Canada 180,000. 159, 683. 
Montreal ho, 000. 37,750. 


The following tabulations give results by administrative units: 


Metropolitan $18,569. 
Central 5,300. 
Foremans Club 1,000. 
University Students ,975. 
University Other I50. 
Westmount 1,200. 
International 53). 
Notre Dame de Grace 2,600. 
Verdun-LaSalle 00. 
Lachine-Dorva | 23. 
Northmount 03. 
Lakeshore 500. 
Camp Otoreke 1,200. 
Kamp Kanawana 288. 
TOTAL $37,750. 


This response to the World Service challenge is excellent. Had 
it not been for the unavailability in 1962 of two large gifts 
which have been current for the past few years, the goal would 
have been reached. The cooperation of many individuals and cor- 
porations, youth groups, SGWU students and a core of deeply in- 
terested laymen is involved in this creditable showing. 


The Montreal Association is well represented in the Internationa] 
Committee organization by J. J. F. Bancroft, W. N. Clelland, W. 
Devereaux, Ji. 1B.-Fmosst, J. G. Kendrick, Fs B. Peterson, M.F. 
Strong, and F. G. Hubbard. 


at = 


The Annual Leaders Corps Training Camp,and the Secretaries 
Training School offering courses credited by Sir George 
Williams University, were again held at Lake Couchiching with 
participation from Montreal staff and members both at the 
teaching and student level. 


The following members of the Montreal Association are members 
of the National Council: 


Ita dg Re IIB NeiRO ir F. D. Mathias 

J. Barrable C. A. Minshull 

J. A. Burke Dis Us We ERireneard 
W. A. Devereaux Mis (Ge Mae 

ta be ELOSst Die Rs, ROSS 

Dine Eee shoe! Die Gis. Ors ) SOMONE tT 
Miss Betty Hicking lea is, deant 

Bob Holmes A. C. Weaver 

T. D. Lewis C. W. Websfer 


rER SON NE L 
EMPLOYED OFFICERS 


During the year, there were 59 professional YMCA secre- 
teries, over 50 full-time employees, and more than 700 
were employed on a part-time basis. Included in the part- 
time personnel were 6 Fellowship Students from various 
parts of Canada, who attended Sir George Williams Univer- 
sity and did program work as part of their preparation for 
YMCA secretaryship. 


EMPLOYED OFFICERS 
APPOINTMENTS AND TRANSFERS 


The following appointments and transfers took place among 
the employed officers during the year: - 


The Branches of the Association 
wee R.A. Dickinson was appointed Financial Secretary re- 
placing K. J. Fellows, who returned to graduate study 
at MacDonald College. 
ait Colin W. McKay was appointed Metropolitan Adult Program 
Secretary and Director of Camp Otoreke, taking the place 
of C. J. McGerrigle who retired. 


wa Ron Cole was appointed Membership Secretary at Central 
Branch, replacing John Stewart who went to England. 


au Joseph Hood resigned as Assistant Physical Director of 
Central Branch to become Program Secretary at Woodstock. 


ao a 


ware Ward Minielly was appointed Adult Program Secretary at 
International Branch. 


ue Randy Scaling was appointed Assistant Secretary at Lachine- 
Dorval Branch replacing Jack Organ who resigned to study 
for teaching. 
} 
wie Sydney Zink was apoointed Assistant Secretary at Lachine- 
Dorval to replace Geraldine Zinn. 


wate William Halliday was appointed Assistant Secretary at 
Northmount Branch to replace Harry Gordon who resigned to 
study for teaching. 


aut Victor Bryant replaced Paul Adams who resigned as Adult 
Program Secretary at NDG Branch to do post-graduate study. 


aut Verna Harries returned to NDG as Women's and Girls! Pro- 
gram Secretary replacing Barbara Parliament who moved to 
Chatham YMCA. 


wie Anne Selig was appointed Women's and Girls! Physical Pro- 
gram Secretary at NDG to replace Frances Young who trans- 
fered to Woodstock YMCA. 


wee Beth Wylie became Assistant Hi-Y Secretary at NDG to re- 
place Arlene Pickle who resigned to travel abroad. 


The University and Schools 
“wee Dr. He. Fe. Hall retired as Principat and Vice-Chancellor 
of Sir George Williams University and Schools, and became 


nominated Principal Emeritus. 


“wee Robert Canon Rae was appointed Principal and Vice-Chancellor 
of Sir George Williams University and Schools. 


“a Douglass Burns Clarke relinquished the post of Registrar 
and was named Vice-Principal. 


wut Donald L. Peets was appointed Registrar, relinquishing 
the post of Assistant Dean. 


“ite J. P. Petolas was appointed Development Officer af the 
University, in a transfer from the Physics Department. 


wee Leslie Smith was named Director of the School of Art, 
replacing John Stewart who was appointed to the Univer- 
sity Department of Fine Arts. 


sesexe Keith Crouch was appointed Librarian of the University. 


2 23 = 


The sudden passing of members of the 


professional staff is reported with 
deep regret, and recorded in the fol- 
lowing ferms in the official records 


of the Association. 


STIRLING MAIR October 30, 1962 


"The sudden accidental death of Stirling Mair, Assistant 
Secretary (Hi-Y) at Verdun-LaSalle Branch since his grad- 
uation from Sir George Williams University in 1958. An 
excellent huntsman and woodsman, he died from exposure on 
a weekend hunting trip. 


The regard with which Stirling Mair was held by the Hi-Y 
members, amongst whom he worked, was illustrated by the 
sponteneous organization by the young people themselves of 
a special Memorial Service at Crawford Park United Church. 
A fitting tribute to a young man who worked with young 
people." : 


C. J. McGERRIGLE January 7, 1963 


"Clarence McGerrigle was one of those rare personalities 

who for almost an entire working life was able and willing 

to serve youth in the Association program in one locality. 

For twenty-five years he devoted his particular talents and 
energies almost exclusively to a realization of the character- 
building opportunities inherent in relating young people to 
the joys of outdoor life under YMCA auspices. 


His modesty, quiet sense of humor, practical good sense, 
gift for friendship and administrative ability, all fitted 


him for successful leadership. It is uniquely true when 
said of him, "He was exactly the right man in the right 
place" in his chosen work." 


- 2h - 


THE 


THE 


INTERNATIONAL WORK OF 


YMCA 


World's Alliance, the world-wide organization of YMCA move- 
ments with headquarters in Geneva Switzerland, numbers 8% 
countries and territories in its membership. The Alliance, 
which is allocated funds from World Service receipts, speaks 

as the representative body of millions of YMCA members around 
the world. If also seeks to coordinate experience, methods, 
personnel, and provides a medium through which the needs across 
the world can be ascertained and world strategy devised. It 
also carries on such emergency international services as work 
with refugees. 


Its official publication World Communique is recognized as one 
of the outstanding periodicals of ifs kind in the world today. 
For years, if has been a stimulating example of how an aggres- 
sive Christian publication can attract attention and tell a 
story. It comes to over 500 Montreal homes annually. 


THE NATIONAL WORK OF 


THE 


MONTREAL YMCA 

The Montreal Association is a constituent member of the National 
Council of the YMCA of Canada and as such had a direct share in 
its work. 


In addition to the annual allocation of $27,015, Messrs: E.C. 
Wood and H. R. Crabtree and C. W. Webster were responsible for 
the Montreal segment of the Canadian Youth Fund Appeal and se- 
cured a total of %517,000. The Appeal, under the National 
Chairmanship of W. Harold Rhea, was an ungualified success with 
a final total of $2,014,659. 


This signififcant financial undertaking was related to the 50th 
anniversary celebrations of the Council, one important aspect 

of which was a carefully prepared blueprint for the future. A 
new headquarters building, new facilities for the Couchiching 
Conference and Training Centre, and plans for extension and 
leadership development were made possible by the Campaign, thus 
adding a dimension to the occasion, of dynamic future potential. 


The Council has continued to render technical service to local 
associations in many aspects of ifs work, including Boys', Phys- 
ical, Young Adults and Extension. This has involved visits to 
Montreal by members of the Council staff, H. Labatte, J. W. 
McVicar and M. B. Shantz. 


- 25 - 


nF Pa Et 


It is 
tely 
the ma 
als an 
fripur 
of the 
record 
gement 


lot; 7) 4-0o8 


never possible to adequa- 
express appreciation to 
ny thousands of individu- 
d organizations who con- 
e each year to the work 

YMCA, but we do wish to 

the following acknowled- 
Se 


To the members of the BOARDS and COMMITTEES who gave 
guidance and counsel! to the work of the Association 
during the year. 


To the hundreds of volunteer ADVISORS, LEADERS, and 
COUNSELLORS who played such an important part in 
group, club, and camp programs. 


To the many INDIVIDUALS and CORPORATIONS whose gen- 
erous financial assistance has made the year's work 
possible. : 


To PRESS, RADIO, and TELEVISION for the help they 
have given in interpreting the work of the Associ- 
ation to the community. 


To the individual MINISTERS and CHURCHES in the 
Greater Montreal area, the Greater Montreal Counci|] 
of Churches -.and.the..Counci!l of Christian Education 
of the Province of Quebec with whom we have so much 
in common. 


To the PROTESTANT: SCHOOL BOARDS for making available 
school gymnasiums, offices, and club room” space to 
supplement our own building facilities. 


To other YOUTH ORGANIZATIONS The Young Women's 
Christian. .Associafion,, The. Young Men's. and Young 
Women's Hebrew Associations, and The Montreal Coun- 
cil of Social Agencies. 


= Bere 


OFFICERS 


J. W. McConnell 
Colin W. Webster 
H. Roy Crabtree 
T. Denton Lewis 
W. N. Hall 

J. R. Logan 


-Honorary 
-President 


DIRECTORS 


Abbott 

Alexander 

Fs Bancroft 
Turner Bone 

W. Bradshaw 

He Fs. € legg 

Norman Clelland 
Leslie Copland 
Ce Corbett 

R. Crawford 

R. A. Emerson 
VOOM Bs FrOsst 

Fraser F. Fulton 

By be hen ibion 

G. Arnold Hart 

Rave. ean iz 

George M. Hobart 
J. D. Houlding 


Sie 
Re 
de 


Of#rnremso 
* & © 


.. = 
» Se © e@ © « 
e 


F. B. Wallis 


BRANCH CHAIRMEN 


Central - TJ. Fe. Turner 
Internation - Basil Burgess 
Lachine-Dorval - J. M. Crawford 
Lakeshore - R. S. Davies 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY 
AND SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS SCHOOLS 


The Corporation 
The Board of Governors 


“Deceased 1962 
#xDeceased 1963 


ale 


rol. OW. 


METROPOLITAN OFFICERS 


AND BOARD MEMBERS 


President 


-Ist Vice-President 
-2nd Vice-President 
-3rd Vice-President 
-Honorary Treasurer 


Irwin 
Kendrick 
Kirkpatrick 
Mainguy 
Mawhinnhey 
McMaster, 
Norsworthy 
Pritchard 
Robb 
- Roberts 
E. Sargent 
Greville Smith 
Maurice F. Strong 

iGVilG Ra fant 
Mortey G. Taylor 

U."B. “Thornron 
A Townsend 
Ca Lan Waukee 


Os. Cs 


eo © @® © @ @ e ee e@ 


ZoTrowmEnowoown>S 


Tw Beat Ves cw. 
ome a2 STOLD @efF6°"Ss © 


Northmount - F. D. Mathias 

2. °D. G2 - = S27 C2"Shennon 
Verdun-LaSalle - Cliff Minshull 
Westmount - D. Y. Novinger 


Colin W. Webster, President 
F. B. Walls, Chairman 


« 2s 


CAMP CHAIRMEN 


Boys' Camping Committee « Fe Vs, Ke. Llouston 
Otoreke Camp Committee -Brian Hammond (Acting Chairman) 


ADVISORY BOARD 


T. He. Atkinson : Frederick Johnson 

i. Jd. Be limaip R. R. Johnson 

Joseph M. Breen Herbert H. Lank 

Henry G. Birks E. A. Leslie 

G. W. Bourke W. F. Macktaler, Q. C. 
Arthur H. Campbel| A. Wesley Mason 
Murray R. Chipman Je We. McConnell 

i Pe COP Land John G. McConnell | 

J. H. Davey Wilson G. McConnell! 
S. G. Dobson J. D. McKeown 

George V. Ferguson TF. R. Aclagan 

Hon ube Ge Foster, Oy, C: A. W. McMaster 

Ji Actuthher R. O. McMurtry 

B. C. Gardner Maj-Gen. F. R. Phelan 
GG. 8. Gordon fuse Eee OWE! 

H. J. Hannaford Howard |. Ross 

R. D. Harkness W. W. Southam 
George R. Hodgson: R. E. Stavert 

R. Ce Horlidem,, QO. C. Guy Tombs 

W. H. Howard, Q. C. Maj-Gen. A. E. Walford 
A. C. Jensen "Ex €. Wood 


OoB tTVaAR Y 


We record with sorrow the pas- 
sing of a number of friends of 
the Association. 


Dio (Ea Nis Busby Mr. Ro Ho McMaster 

Mr. Victor Drury Ar. Es B. Mi lis 

Me. Henry T. Fyon Mre Re We. Mitchell 

Mr. H. L. Gnaedinger ‘Rew, Dr. A. Lioyd Smith 
Mr. N. K. Gordon Mr. A. Turner 

Mr. R.A. Cy Henry Mr. Al Tzventarny 

Mer. WH. E. Herschern Hyp. John C. Udd 

Miss Olive Hosmer Mr. Roy E. Wagar 

Mr. Ross McLernon Mr. James K. Wilson 


= BOs 


THE YEAR IN STATISTICS 


Figures are meaningful 
considered as persons 


playing and learning together 

a Christian environment. Char- 
acter is influenced by associa- 
tion with tike-minded people. 


VOLUNTEER SERVICE 


Group Leaders 
On Boards, Committees and Councils 


HEALTH AND PHYSICAL FITNESS 


Gymnasium Activities 

Swimming Classes 

Swimming Tests and Lessons 

No. of Individuals Taught to Swim 
Teams, Leagues, Rinks, 
Athletic Events 


GROUPS AND CLUBS - 2,713 


Purpose and Fellowship Clubs, 
Interest Groups and Classes. 


INFORMAL EDUCATION 
Crafts and Hobbies 
Lectures, Forums, 


Motion Pictures and Film Clubs 
Librartes, Book Circulation 


RELIGIOUS EDUCATION 


Meetings, Study Groups, Chapel! 


- 29 - 


only when 
who are 


and Playfields 


[so # *? 


and Study Groups. 


ENROLLMENT ATTENDANCE 
oy ree 
TS 2°79 '" 40,546 
GO HVOF 20% ee oi 199894 
I 550 ap vanes ye 
7,405 ee 
Leno yt ; 
2,646 3994 eh a st 
“el, ee] 
13,279 2,593 280,756 397° 
1,063 //é (ey Aa7? Oe 
FO ent hah 5 4¥2 
15,33, u/c 
138,272 (7/70 
9,695 a 


ENROLLMENT ATTENDANCE 
SOCIAL RECREATION 


Dances, Parties, and Social Affairs 48,2 65337 
Dramatics and Musical Events Zyee0 die 
Trips, Gutings, Etc. Sete 4) 224 
CAMPS 

Campers Camper Days 
Boys 590 12,425 
Men °* Bl2 2,96 
Women 695 a5 
Total Camper Enrollment 2,097 
Total Camper Days 18,890 
City Camps and Fun Clubs - 8 ~2 1,928 27,819 29,337 
PERSONAL SERVICES 
Counselling and Interviews 85,3 £4957 
Employment Placements 840 9°! 
Residence Bookings ; 163,010 /469,5/5 
Food Services 5L7,175 yst, 939 


FORMAL EDUCATION 


Sir George Williams University & Schools 16,889 
No. of Different Classes - 1023 
No. of Different Student Class Hours 275,852 ¢ 
Y - - 7 Pe e3) 

COMMUNITY SERVICE 
No. of Outside Organizations Using a 

'y' Facilities 1,586 47~ 
No. of Times 3,386 2" 96, 926 
GROSS ATTENDANCE 
Clubs, Groups, Program Events, 

Informal Education Classes 

& Personal Services 5,096, 873 


= 20 = 


