Fr ftieth FNnnual Peport 


PNssociation 


of the City of Montreal 


Ajubilee @elebration fddresses 


June 8-10, 1901 


Full of interest to——___— 


Y.M.C.A. CLUBS. 


Our SPORTING GOODS DEPARTMENT in store 


2411 St. Catherine Street. 

TENNIS OUTFITS, FISHING OUTFITS, 
FOOTBALLS, BASEBALL OUTFITS, GOLF, 
INDOOR AND OUTDOOR GAMES. 


THE G. A. HOLLAND & SON CO. 


—— > —_——— 


Canada’s WALL PAPER Store is at 


2413 St. Catherine Street. 
THE G.A.H. & S. CO. 


RS 


GARTH & COMPANY 


MANUFACTURERS OF 


THE VANDUZEN 


PATENTED 


“TL”? Steam-Jet Pumps. 


Where the Pumps will work,—They are 
especially serviceable in Mines, Coal Pits, Brickyards, 
Quarries, Mills, and wherever it may be desirab'e to 
use them for elevating water for any purpose. Also, 
Tanneties, Pump Mills, Packing Houses, Stock Yards, 
Laundries, Dairies, Breweries, Distilleries, Canning 
Establishments, Draining Cellars, and on Steamboats, 
Barges, Ferry-Boats ; on Docks, Railroad Watering 
Stations, ‘And so we might name hundreds of uses 
for our Pumps. 

DOES AWAY with all kinds of expensive Pumps, 
Pumps from 200 to 20,000 gallons per hour, 

PRICES—From $7.00 to $75.00, 

£2 SEND FOR CATALOGUE, a 

Hot Water and Steam Engineering Plumbers 
Water Department Supplies. 

Importers of Wrought and Cast Iron Pipes, Malle- 
able and Cast Iron Fittings, Sanitary Earthenware, 
Lavatory Fittings, Iron, Brass and Copper Castings. 
Send for Price List. 


536-542 CRAIG STREET, 


MONTREAL 


a 


A DeuciousBeverace | LYMIAN’S 
MADE IN A MOMENT. | ‘ 
ii we | Fluid Coffee 


is made from the best MOCHA 
and JAVA, the bitter parts of 
both having been extracted. 
No Coffee Pot needed. 
No Grounds. 
No Trouble. 


It can be made to suit any 


person’s taste, and no more 


need be prepared at a time 


THE VERY THING hates: 
FOR CAMPING ouT than is required. 


LYMANS FLUID COFFEE | LYMAN, SONS & CO. 


AST rene Sete fr S| Maunfacturers, 
Put up in bottles of 4% lb., % Ib., 1 ab. 884 St, Paul Street, MONTREAL. 
FOR SALE EVERYWHERE. Established 1800, 


BUY YOUR }) y )) [hk All the Latest 
BOOKS at : « Books published. 
The correct thing in STATIONERY, CARDS, ete. ENGRAVING and PRINT- 
ING orders attended to with despatch at lowest prices. Telephone Up 1412, 
DRYSDALE’S OST OFFICE.—Money Orders and Postal Notes issued Branch 
of Post Office Savings Bank. 
WILLIAM DRYSDALE & CoO., 
2478 St. Catherine Street, Montreal. 


gh HENRy 1 ie ) 
manacer’ © 8, 10 & 12 Inspector Street. 


soth 


ANNGSL REPORT 


OF THE 


YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN 
ASSOCIATION 


ORGANIZED INCORPORATED 


Nov. 1851. Dec. 1870. 


OF THE CITY OF MONTREAL. 


PRESENTED AT THE ANNUAL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY EVENING, 
MAy 21ST, 1901. 


MONTREAL: 
“WITNESS ” PRINTING HOUSE, 


1901. 


A 
Perfect 
Finish 


No rough saw tooth edges,—clean 


andimmaculate, the product of skilled 
labor and improved machinery,— 
laundered under perfect sanitary 
conditions. Collars, Cuffs and Shirts 
are agnecialty with us. 


HE 
TOILET LAUNDRY co. 


LiMITED 
290 GUY STREET 


Formerly MONTREAL TOILET SUPPLY Co. 


’Phones Up 2601 and 2602 


ALBERT B. TUDDENHAM WARD. ANDERSON 


TUDDENHAM & ANDERSON 


Merchant Tailors 
344 ST. JAMES STREET, MONTREAL 


Telephone Main 3979. 


se 


A full line of IMPORTED GOODS 


always on hand. 


OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS, 190-1902. 


PRESIDENT. 
CHARLES T. WILLIAMS. 


VICE-PRESIDENT. 
ROBERT MUNRO. 
TREASURER. 

L. H. PACKARD. 
RECORDING SECRETARY. 


GEO. LAMB. 


BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 


Term expires May rst, 1902. 


ABNER KINGMAN. Ropert HENDERSON. 
Joun KENNEDY. CHARLES CUSHING. 
R. H. BucHANAN. Ropert Munro. 


C. C. HoLvanp. 


Term expires May rst, 1903. 


tH. J. Mupce. Dr. W. F. HamItton. 
L. H. PAckKarp. Setn P. Leer. 
C. W. Brown. Joun W. Ross. 
Term expires May Ist, 190.4. 
D. W. Ross. D. BENTLEY. 
CuarLes T. WILLIAMS. Ii. B. AMEs. 
James W. Knox. G. H. Harrower. 
C. E. GAvutt. 
ADVISORY DIRECTORS. 
Joun Murprty. GrEoRGE LAmp. 
WALTER PAUL. GEORGE HAGUE. 


Davip YUILE. 


D. A. BUDGE - - General Secretary. 

C.K. CALHOUN - - - Assistant General Secretary. 
JOHN ROY _= - - Assistant Secretary. 

fF. E. BURGESS - - - Educational Director. 
JOHN BROIWN - - Junior Secretary. 

J. EE: MERRITT - - Physical Director. 


A.B. DAIVSON - - Assistant Physical Director. 


WORK FOR YOUNG MEN IN FOREIGN LANDS. 


DAVID McCONAUGHY FUND. 

This report covers the year ending Dec. 31, 1900, in order to 

coincide with the fiscal year of the International Committee, to whom 

this fund is reported. A new Committee has undertaken this work 

and is planning to prosecute it with greater vigour and earnestness 
amongst the members. 


RECEIPTS. 


Envelope Contributions by members .. .. .. .-$330 69 
Stibscription “by Directors ..°o. g2 25-1. 2) = 14300 

$482 69 

DISBURSEMENTS. 

Postage cetChena Sees. 2. SR ac ee ears ees or ae 
Sent International Committee .. .. .. s. .~ «+ 475 00 
Balanceignsland.s kee ee v. Se waren 2 cueee seers ASS 

$482 69 


LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS. 


Arthur, Alec.; Babcock,’ C. S.; Bale, Chas.; Bell, R. F.; Bray, J. 
C.; Bruce, Alex.; Bruce, D. S.; Buchanan, R. H.; Budge, D. A.; 
Burrell, W. G.; Calhoun, C; K.; Charlton, R. L.; Comrie, G. J.; 
Coyle, E. J.; Dawson, W. Bell: Dawson, A. O.; Everett, Rev. T.; 
Giles, Dr. W. J.; Graham, T. W.; Hare, C. T.; Haycock, A. B.; 
Henderson, Dr. J. A.; Hetherington, J. S.; Hewitt, John; Holden, 
R. C.; Hornibrook, J. S.; King, W. B.; Lamb, Geo.; Leslie, W. S.; 
Leslie, Dr. P, C.; Layton, P. E.; Layton, H. A.; Mackenzie, H. M. A.; 
Meyer, C. L.; Millen, J. Ernest; Moran, W. L.; Mudge, A. L.; 
Mudge, H. J.; Peden, A.; Readman, J. G.; Robertson, G. E,; 
Robertson, C.; Roberts, E.; Roberton, C. H.; Rorke, Geo. S.; Ross, 
J. W.; Ross, D. W.; Roe, F. G.; Roulston, R.; Sherard, J. H.; Sloan, 
J. J.; Slocombe, F.; Sparks, W.; Stanton, J. H.; Stewart, Dr. W. 
G.: Walker, J. C.; Wilson, Jas.; Woodley, G. T.; Walker, F. J.; 
Young, W. 

Through the individual gifts of five members of the Association, 
three men are sustained as Secretaries in India, and one in China, 
and one in Japan,—all of whom are engaged in work for the native 
young men of these non-Christian lands. 


Gifts towards the annual expenses of the Association, 
and also towards its extension in the city, are earnestly 
solicited by the Board of Directors, 

The Association appeals to its many friends in the 
city, for a remembrance in the final disposition of their 
property. Bequests are invited toward an Annex to the 
present Building for the enlargement of the Physical and 
Educational work, and also for special accommodation 
for work for boys; also Branch Building at Point St. 
Charles and the Northeast End; also for the develop- 
ment of the Library, and the supervision of the 
Educational work, 


ay 


ANNUAL MEETING. 


Annual Meeting of the Association was held on 
at 8.15, in the Lecture Hall, Mr. 
C. T. Williams, President, in the chair. The meeting was opened 
with devotional exercises, Mr. Budge reading the twelfth chapter of 
Romans, and Mr. J. R. Dougall leading in prayer. The minutes of 
the last Annual Meeting were read and approved. A telegram of 
congratulation was sent to the Toronto Association on the occasion 
of their Annual Meeting. 

The report of the Board of Directors was presented by Mr. D. A. 
Budge, Secretary, and the Financial Statement by Mr. L. H. Packard, 
Treasurer. Reports of the various Committees were also presented 
in regular order. On motion, the following were elected to serve 


as Directors for three years >— 


The Fiftieth 
Tuesday evening, May aith, 1901, 


D. W. Ross. J. W. Knox. G. H. Harrower. 
Cc. T. WILLIAMS. D. BENTLEY. C. E. GAUvtt. 
H. B. AMES. 


On motion of Mr. S. P. Leet, seconded by Mr. I. Gammell, the 
foliowing amendment to the By-laws of the Association was adopted: 

“Article .—Membership.—Sections 1 and 2 to read ‘Any young 
man sixteen years of age and over, and Sections 2 and 3 to read, 
‘with satisfactory references as to character and general conduct,’ 
instead of ‘ good moral character ? and Section 3 to read, ‘upon 
presentation of satisfactory evidence as to character, as above 
indicated.’ ” 

The members then listened to a stirring address from Mr. W. B. 
Millar, of the International Committee, N.Y., on the work of the 
last fifty years and the outlook for the future. 

The meeting adjourned with prayer by Mr. John Murphy, and the 
singing of “ Blest be the tie that binds.” 


FINE BINDINGS 


When you want something ina BOOK NICELY BOUND 
for a BIRTHDAY or WEDDING GIFT, or a BIBLE 
bound so that it will last for years, call upon 
F. E. GRAFTON & SONS, 
240 St. James Street, 
‘THE BEST 100 PICTURES wil be completed in about 
17 parts at 4oc a part. Each part contains 6 plates, 
beautifully executed, of the representative pictures of the 
world. Ask to see them. They are worth framing... . 


pee NOR ie 


THE WORLD'S LEADERS: 
KNABE »# DOMINION .* NEWCOMBE 
WILLIAMS #* KINGSBURY 
Also CHURCH, CHAPEL and PARLOR ORGANS. 


WILLIS &. CO. 2470 St. Gaiwering Street 


EMPIRE BUILDING. 


| GEO. S. KIMBER 


Interior .. 


Decorator. 
, Be 
ae fA Paper Ibangings 
OF ALL KINDS IN STOCK. 
De 
ON THE MARKET |] 2466 St. Catherine Street, 
AT ALL SHOE STORES | MONTREAL. 


ALL. COLORS: 15% 25% SIZES 


Bell Telephone Up 1287. 


i_= 


NNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 


_—_———_ 


} ough the good ha 
4 the Jubilee year 0 
ation movement on t 


nd of our God upon us we have 
f this Association, and also of the 
he American continent. 


when a group of young men met 
ther in a room in the Baptist Church on St. Helen Street, 
the present time, this work for the young men of 
eal has continued without interruption. If a correct 
et of the men who have wrought out this movement in this 
+» could be made it would reach into the thousands, and 
id surely be an attractive study. A review of the past 
tory indicates the self-sacrifice and untiring labor which 
freely rendered by a large number of our predecessors, 
1 we are so greatly indebted. The majority of these 
men have passed to their reward, but they have left 
a great inheritance, and a worthy example. Let the 
ificing spirit of these early leaders fill the minds and 
of those who are now directing its affairs, so that 
er honor and glory may come to our God and greater 


¢ to our fellow young men. 


ld Power. 

ng this half century the Young Men’s Christian Asso- 
has demonstrated its right to be called “A World 
’ by its being planted in nearly every country in the 
and by its occupying almost every strategic point of 
in modern life. That young men need the prepara- 
their life work which the Association affords can no 
be questioned by any thoughtful man, and is abund- 
y proven by the constantly increasing number of young 
n who are taking advantage of the privileges offered. 


the year 1851, 


12 
Growth. 

The record of the work of the past year shows gratifying 
progress in about every Department. This is the more 
encouraging when we realize the work which is being done 
for young men throughout the city in other ways. A few 
years ago the Association was practically alone in that field, 
but now many of the churches have organizations for their 
young men, with Reading and Social Rooms, and in suburban 
sections organizations embodying the social and athletic side 
have come into existence. j 


Membership. 


The membership closed on May Ist with 2,070 young men 
and Juniors enrolled. This is the largest in our history, and 
the Committee and its Chairman, Mr. R. C. Holden, are to 
be congratulated for this result. It shows an increase of 371 
over last year. A systematic effort has been made by the 
Committee and the office towards the visitation of new 
members soon after they have joined. While this is of the 
utmost importance, the task is not an easy one when you 
consider the large number who join each month, and the diffi- 
culties of personal visitation at their homes or business. Ther 
Directors would commend the facts of the membership report 
to the careful consideration of all members. 


With Canadians in South Africa. 


This Association maintained a deep interest in the work 
of Dr. H. G. Barrie and Mr. Thos. F. Best with the Canadian 
Contingents in South Africa. Over $300 was subscribed by 
the members toward the necessary expenses, and through an 
arrangement with Miss Gould, of Montreal, the sum of $3,000 
was secured and cabled to Dr. Barrie and Mr. Best for sup- 
plying the immediate needs of the men on the field as these 
Secretaries might deem best. This was a great boon to the 
men, and it gave our representatives enlarged influence in 
the service they sought to render. The safe return of both 
Dr. Barrie and Mr. Best, after all the hardships of the cam- 


15 


is cause for devout thanksgiving to God. For the 
e record of this work see the report issued by the 


paign, 
complet 
Provincial Committee. 


Militia Camp- 

At the Militia Camp held July last at Laprairie, the Asso- 
ciation placed a tent and equipment on the field, and with 
the co-operation On Mire eel Distin, Secretary at Quebec, 
Provincial Committee and others, a good work was 
carried On- The facilities for reading, games and correspond- 
ence, and the addresses given each evening, were greatly 
appreciated by both officers and men. 


the 


Our Religious Work. 

The religious work has been animated by a helpful spirit. 
This is not confined merely to the devotional and gospel 
meetings and the Bible classes, but we strive to plan the 
whole so that there shall be no secular or religious work 
separate from each other. The religious life of the Associa- 
tion should permeate every department, and our Committee- 
men and volunteer workers should carry a religious life and 
interest into all their work. We believe this is done to a 
greater extent than ever before. As the Committee report 
will show, 4 distinct advance has been made in the all 
important matter of Bible study. We have lacked, however, 
the aggressive evangelistic effort, that reaching out after 
young men outside of our Building. We have had no special 
series of evangelistic meetings in order to bring the great 
fundamental truths of the Christian life before our men. An 
effort was made to secure this, but we were disappointed in 
not being able to get the leader. This should be remedied 
for the coming year. At least two series of such meetings 
should be held by the most competent men that can be 
secured, and more aggressive, evangelistic work undertaken 
en behalf of the young men of the city. The Directors 
suggest that this important matter have the earliest attention 
of our Religious Department Committee. 


14 
Finance. 


The financial statement will show all our bills paid at the 
close of the year. For this we are very grateful, but it shows 
a small decline in the amount of subscriptions toward current 
expenses. ‘This is accounted for in part by the greater. 
activity of the Membership Committee, who secured former 
subscribers as members, and in some cases increased their 
amount. But to meet the present and future demand of this 
magnificent field we should have a larger financial support 
from tthe citizens. The Finance Committee have plans in 
view for a more thorough canvas of the city. During the 
year one bequest was received of $450.00 from the will of 
the late Mrs. Frances A. Sanders. 


Building and Rooms. 


The Building has had careful oversight, and notwith- — 
standing the fact that its use has never been so great, your 
Directors are pleased to report that its general appearance 
is almost as attractive as when opened ten years ago. Plans 
are under consideration for some much needed improvements 
which will add to the comfort and convenience of the main 
floor. 


The Work of the Ladies’ Committee. 


The Ladies’ Committee has rendered most helpful service 
in the development of the social work and also in the appoint- 
ments of the Building. In fact, the social work in connection 
with the various departments has made great advance, so that 
the Building has become more than ever a social centre for 
the members. The work of the Ladies’ Committee has made 
this possible, and your Directors extend to them the cordial 
thanks of the Association. 


The Volunteer Working Force. 


For the detailed statement of the year’s work we, would 
refer you to the reports of the Department Committees. 
Your Directors desire to thank the chairmen and members 


15 


of Committees and all the other volunteer workers for the 
time and effort expended, and the loyal support they have 
eiven to the Board. The increase in the volunteer working 
Estce is one of the most hopeful signs for the future, as it 
offers such invaluable training for the young men who are to 
be the future leaders of the work. 


The Staff. 


The Directors desire to record their appreciation of the 
faithful service rendered by the staff, in their supervision of 
the various departments. Few of the members realize the 
multiplicity of detail, or the hours of service required in 
order to effectively supervise this large and increasing work. 
The only change in the staff was the addition of Mr. A. B. 
Dawson, as Assistant Physical Director. 


The Need of to-day is Men. 


The man of affairs to-day needs efficient men more than he 
needs anything else to enable him to carry out his projects. 
The demand for men of better training, steadier habits, higher 
character, was never greater. Young men are pushed to the 
front as never before. The colleges are filled with many who 
are making great sacrifices to secure the necessary equipment 
to meet this demand. The Association steps in to furnish this 
training, not only on the intellectual, but also on the social, 
physical and religious side of a young man’s life. It reaches 
after the great mass of employed young men. To prove that 
it is meeting this demand there are hundreds of young men 
who could give similar testimony to the writer of the follow- 
ing letter :— 

April 22, 1901. 
“Dear Mr. Bunce, 

“As you are aware, I have been identified with the Association 
oth as a junior and senior member ever since my 13th or 14th year, 
and as I have come under the influence of the work in almost all 
the branches, it seems in looking back that I have almost been 
entirely safe-guarded by those influences against the operation of 


16 


the numerous temptations which assail a young man less favorably 
situated. 
“It would be utterly impossible for me to form an estimate ¢ 
the value which my connection with the Association has been to m 
As you are aware, I have been fairly successful since entering 
commercial life, and I am convinced that the Association has be: 
andisthe greatest factor in my success. I am satisfied that ¢] 
time spent in the Association could not have been more profitab’ 
spent, and is the best investment which I could possibly have made 


Every thoughtful man must see what a tremendous respon: 
sibility thus rests upon the Association, but it can only meet 
this in proportion as it is given the enlarged means an 
facilities to carry on the work. 

Montreal is a strategic point. As a seaboard city it meets 
large numbers of young men who come to this country, J] 
is also the chief commercial city of the Dominion. The 
marked division in its population makes it a most important 
field for an organization which welcomes all young men 
character being the only test. 


Expansion in Branches. 


At no single point can the work be accomplished. Other 
cities like Buffalo, Pittsburg, New York and Chicago have 
met this need by Branches, all directed by a central Board, 
New York City has eighteen Branches, and others are bein 
added each year. These Branches need not be as large or 
expensive as the Central Building, but they should be adapted 
to the locality. A careful study of the map compiled by thi 
Membership Committee, showing where each membe 
resides, clearly indicates the sections of the city which need 
to be covered, These are 


Point St. Charles. Annex to Central Building, 
The North-East End. with separate Boys’ Department, 
French Branch in East End Evening Class Rooms, 


Addition to the Gymnasium. 

We had hoped to be able to report the beginning of the | 
Point St. Charles Branch, but matters hate arisen causing 
delay. We trust that these will be cleared away soon, and 


17 


y needed, begun. Our growth in this 
ilding and any marked increase in several of the depart- 
eS i well nigh impossible without enlargement. This 
J source of great concern to the Directors. 

The importance of a separate equipment for the Boys’ 
yenartment is most urgent. The business boys are a large 
jncreasing class, and we can practically do nothing more 
or them with our present equipment unless we conflict with 
Swork of the young men. For this special department, 
. York, Cleveland, Brooklyn, and other cities, are 
e rooms and buildings. We must do the 
t the demands and provide for the 


, Branch, so greatl 


iding separat 
ne if we are to mee 
a 

‘Superior Opportunity for Investment. 

Most wealthy men of to-day started poor. They have 
‘wht their way to success in this hard battle of life. They 
place a high estimate on those agencies which enable 
oung men to rise by means of wise and helpful use of their 
sure time. We do not believe that any investment can be 
made by our citizens either by gift or bequest which would 
have a more beneficent or far-reaching influence than in an 
ency of this kind which is moulding the lives of the boys 
and young men, who in coming years will control the com- 
mercial and public interests of the city and country. The 
Directors earnestly commend this to the consideration of all 
public-spirited citizens and persons of larger means. 


Prayer the Power. 


A review of the past history of our Association shows the 
important place which prayer has ever occupied. Those in 
charge have realized this to be a sacred trust committed to 
them by God, and have sought His guidance and help in its 
_ prosecution. Whenever new plans have been presented they 
have been committed to God for counsel, “ For unless the 
Lord build the house they labor in vain that build it.” This 
has been pre-eminently true the past year. Each Friday 


18 


morning at 8.30 the Directors have met for prayer on beha] 
of the work. These prayers have been abundantly answere 
Let the Association be encouraged to go forward int 
Twentieth Century to still greater achievements. a 


In Memoriam. 


During the past year death has made great havoc in ov 
ranks. Our men are falling by the way, reminding us th 
whatever good thing we plan to do must be done quickly, ; 
our opportunities may be gone. Some of these have bee 
valued friends of the Association for many years. 


DEATHS. j 


Grorce B. Murr, . 
Admitted to membership, Nov., 1851. Died, 4 
W. R. SAMUEL, 
Admitted to membership, Feb. 20, 1899. Died, July 1, 19¢ 
Somers C. Hutcutncs, ; 
Admitted to membership, Feb. 16, t900. Died, July 6, 190 
A. D. LANSKAIL, i 
Admitted to membership, 1875. Died, July, 10, 1900. 
GEORGE IRVING, ; 
A subscriber for twenty years. Died, August, 1900. 
Joun McMurtrie, 
Admitted to membership, Nov. ro, 1896. Died, Sept. : 
1900. 
Capt. P. T. LeEMatstrE, ' 
Admitted to membership, April, 1895. Lost at sea, Nov. < 
1900. 
Joun Morrow, 
Admitted to membership, Jan. 1, 1893. Died, Nov. 21, 19 
F. S. Foster, j 
Admitted to membership, Feb., 1873. Died, Jan. 6, 1901. 
Gro. D. ANDERSON, 
Admitted to membership, Sept. 9, 1897. Died, Jan. 7, 19! 
THEODORE LYMAN, 9 
Admitted to membership, 1854. Died, Feb. 6, 1901. 
GERALD S. RAcEy, 
Admitted to membership, Sept. 22, 1899. Died on boi 
ship to South Africa, March 9, 1901. i” 


19 


H. T. SPENCER, 
tted to membership, March 10, 1895. Died, March 7, 


er. Frep. F. Futon, 
dmitted to membership, Feb. 16, 1899. Died March 13, 


er F. E. Hopcson, 

.dmitted to membership, 1895. Died, April 2, 1901. 

_ Davip MACFARLANE, 

subscriber since 1897, and one who materially assisted in 
ye erection of this Building. Died, April, 4, 1901. 

Frep. D. LAuRIE, 

mitted to junior membership, Oct., 1896. Died, April 16, 


A. BUDGE, C. T. WILLIAMS, 
Secretary. President. 


FINANCIAL STATEMENT. 
sIpTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR YEAR ENDING APRIL 30TH, 1901. 
CURRENT ACCOUNT. 


Receipts. 
hip Fees Pes . $8,164 84 
oe ess iof MOSTEZE 
EMM Pee ss + + as Siwy ts a0 S2O ROO 
ice from Property Account .. .. .. ...... 835 52 
$15,950 11 
Expenses. 
RSs sk ea. os. ss SE Dep GaN LO 
Mepartment .. .... .. .. a. $502 32 
ubscriptions to— 
EO a ice an! ae aie: PASESS 
Pedy, Class)... .. ... 4310 
HEMeTVICES.. .: .. .. 25°00 
145 63 446 69 
BUR alee g's is A 344 81 
REEVE Macho ggh08..) auto ae 56 32 
2: — 288 49 
paleDepartment.. .. .. .. .. .. 007 13 
BMMRCCEIVEC i's 3s o. 0. ce TRINSO 
1D SS 75; '83 
d epattment .. .: .. ss £502" 50 


. = 483 25 
Bess ais 3. 32 00 


515 41 1,077 09 


20 


Junior Department ..1a5 seme... «+o, 2ATLSS 
Wess «Classi Hees. 2 4s =, 103 00 
SUidHEs fe Gel aes. OE A= «2005 
131 15 2160p 
Library and Reading Room.. .. .. .. 497 34 
Ibess ‘Sale: Periodicals, etch: .. «2..2' 75 S50 
——_ 421 78 
Relief Department .; 3... =; «- «+ «s 62 52 
IhegsiGash.. nee eee, ont 44 55 
Se 17 97 
Printing, Stationery and Advertising .. 862 65 
Less Subscription for Sign .. 135 75 
Advertisements «.., seeete es... 177-90 
313 74 548 or 
Postagesws = ne, on OE eee 
Sundry Expenses ee 2.9) Lee teveus 13.3, = Se 
Insurance on Library and Furnishings os So fie ae 25 00 
Repairs and Furnishings +> i em oS 
Proportion of Light ys umes. <. -< ce wien 3) | ORREEE 
Proportion of Heats cc uke. .. «+ sscar as. <s nOORUEm 
Proportion of Water: - mem... .. .. sess 6. | S00Rem 
International Committee saa. <. .. .2-.2 aes 7s.  TOOnoG 
Provincial Committee .. .. 5 so veeeeee eG 25 00 
Point St. Charles R.R. Branch .. .. .. .. .. .. 180 00 
Suspense.. .. a Vs oy «Je kaeeiee cape SCO 
Proportion of Wages. . 1 50) SOR cer aren ROE) 


PROPERTY ACCOUNT. 


Receipts. 
FREES, sabmioee se are SRR, <.. GSMS eS, wep sry 
Expenses. 
Repairs to Bee i) SE ss aca ea he were Sin PS ROMREM 
Insurance .. .. t SRE cs. owls! ela ao. > MOOmem 
ENCEreStcc. Sonera ee TARE... ac SSRs mp RROOREEIE 
Ha xiesa. ts ie. BMS oC ce ere eee 
Elevator—Wages. . eee oid Meme SRORGS) 
Wrater nee een! 2s. santa BO BA 
Insurance ORME Ls 5s 5 phan PONOy 
FRODAIES: ott URES. «.. sca LLOUKO, 
— 1,207 67 
Proportion of bight, ere ae eu (ss lar gets an) ORzmae : 
Proportion of Heat.. .. . wap aie’ tow tas, (O03 haan , 
Proportion of Salaries and Wages «2 ACI See Ee OORT 3 
Sundry Expensesof Roomss. .. .. ../2. o2 0 425) A57CRae 1 
Balance to Current Account.. .. .---........ 835 52 q 
—— $7;280m 


Certified correct, 


P. S. ROSS & SONS, ° 
Chartered Accountants. 


eee 
swecccan 


= 


Sesses 


sese 


S 


SSRwounaRahe 


ee 


Reoren 
SSSSSSsessse 


~ 


1, John ee. 
i Manf. Co .... 


21 


SUBSCRIPTIONS. 
Castle & Son---- -$10 00 
Cayford, J. - 8 
Chaplin, W. J--- 
Chase & Sanborn- 
Cheney, W. G..- 
Cheney, G 
Childs, G. A-- 
Clarke, C.O 
Clarke, O. L..- 
Cleghorn, J. P- 
Cooper, Jas.- 
Cooper, Wm. 
Coristine, Jas., & Co 
Covernton, C. 
Cramp, Geo B 
Crathern, Jas. 
Crawford, J---- - 
Cross, Mrs. Judge- 
Cross, Selkirk .-- 
Cunningham, R- 
Currie, Jas.----- 
Cushing, Chas. 
Cuttle, J. A- 
Cohen & Son.- 
Cummings, A. 
Corbett, John 
Dalrymple, Jas 
Date, John.--- 
Davidson, Pee 
Davidson, Mrs. 
Davidson, The Ma 
Davis & Lawrence Co-- 
Davis, C. W 
Dawson, W. 
Dillon, John. 
Donnelly, J. T.. & Co- .- 
Dorion, F. A.--- - 
Dougall, C. H-.--.-..----- 
Dowker, McIntosh & Co. 
Drummond, McCall&Co, 2 
Drysdale, D ee 
Duclos & Payan 
Dun, R. G., & Co 
Dunean, John, & 
Durnford, A. G.. 
Durnford, Geo -- 
Dickson, R. A 
Dyer, John... 
Eastwood, J. ¥ 
Ecroyd, Thos. 
Esplin, G. & J. 
MOV ATSs te Woo. . 25> 
Eveleigh, J., & Co 
Ewing, A. S- 
Ewing, S. H- 
Evans & Sons, Ltd 
Evans, Owen N.-- 
Evans Bros-......- 5 sae 
Ewing, Wm., & Co. -..- 
Elder, Dempster Co.-.. 
Fair, John 
Fisher, M., Sons & Co... 
Fisher, Mrs. R. C.... 
Fisk, H. J., & Co......-. 
Fleet, Falconer & Cook. 
Forbes Bros__- 
Forman, John 
Foster, Geo. G 
Francis, Wm 
Fraser Bros 
Fraser, G. 
Friend. 
Friend 
Friend. 
Friend. 
Friend. 


aatsiow SSsuvrrSisa 


m= 


Soups waouw 


whSSSe 


a 
cus 


w 


‘ 
= ~ 
SaanonsS 


reqeyetns 
SSSSSSuka 


Bee eS ee eS eS ee Se eS SS SSSESESESSSSSSSSSSSESES 


§ 


4 


ans aannsacse SownSssSa on 


eet 


Friend_ 

Friend. 00 
Friend. 00 
Friend _ 00 
Friend 20 
Friend. 10 05 
lv is) ts ae 00 
Frost & Wood Co., Ltd. 5 00 


ao 
~ 


yriend 
Finley, Samuel 


s 


Frankel Bros 10 
Filgate, Mrs. 5 
Galt, Lady -.. 10 
Gardner, Jas 5 
Garth & Co 10 
Gault, A 50 
Gault,T 0.. ee} 
Gault, Mrs. M. H... 10 
Gibb, A. H_- 1 
Gibb, Jas, R--- 5 
Giimour Bros. & Co_.... 10 
Glassford Bro. & Pollock 5 


Gnaedinger, E. W.. ---- 
Gordon, J. A... 
Gordon & ate 
Graham, A. 

Gardner, R.- 
Graham, Geo 
Graham, Hug! 
Granby Rubber 
Granger, A. O 


Greene, G. A- 
Greene, N. 
Greenshields, 


pee 
i—I—) 


AAASES aZeRstiatia 


Gurney, Massey Co WwW 
Gales, G. G_..-- 1 
Hague, Geo.- 150 
Hastings, W. A- 5 
Hagar, J. T..-. 10 
Hague, H. J 10 


Hains, John McD 
Hamilton, Miss - 
Handyside, Chas 
Harling, Thos. - 
Hart, eewranacs 
Heaton, E. P.... - 
Henderson tae ws 


= 
oisin 


Seesss 


Hickson, Lady -- 
Higgins, B. Ww 


Hodgson, Jonathan -... 10 00 
Hudson Bay Knitting Co 10 00 


Hutchinson, M.-. 5 00 
Hutchison, Mrs. 10 00 
Hutchison, Jas 10 00 

10 00 

5 00 

10 00 

25 00 
Hodge, Geo., & 5 00 
Hampson, Robt-_- 5 00 
Imperial Oil Co., Ltd__- 5 00 
Imperial Bank ofCanada 25 00 
Vesey ae Foc cue: 00. 
Ives, H.R. & Co -.....- 10 00 
Jamieson. R. C., & Co -. 5 00 
Jaques, C. A..-. 10 00 
Johnston, H. J 5 00 
Johnston, J. 200 
Joyce, A..... 10 00 
Kearley, G. R aa OD. 
Kennedy, John._.. ..... 10 00 


Kerr, Dr. R. A_- -$1 00 Montreal Lumber Co., Ross, Jas__ 
Kerr, R. & W 10 00 The.._. -$5 00 | Ross, Mrs, PS 
Kerry, W. 8. 5 00 Moodie, A. toss, Samuel] 
100 00 | Moody, 'M., & Son: Royal Bank of 
. 0 #r00Ke, es es aie R.G 
£ organ, Hy., is othwell, E. 
5 00 Morrice, D!, Sons, He 
Kingman, Abner 200 00 Morris, J. WwW. 
x 10 00 Morrison, J. Scott, Walter 


1 00 Morton, Henry 
LY Mudge, H. J.___- 
Kyle, Cheesebrough Co-_ 10 00 Manderloh & Co 
Lafleur, E____ Sr oora soak: RO Munderloh, H- 
Laing, Peter. 10 00 Munro, Robt 3 
Lamb Geo_. 10 00 Munroe, D. D____-. 10 00 | Seath, R., & Soni 
Langwell, Mr: 5 00 Murphy, Jolin, & Co 50 00 | Shaw Bro, & Cassi 
2 00 Mussen, H.S.. -_......-. 10 00 Shearer, Jas., Jp 
10 00 | Mussen’ Estate, Thos ... 25 00 Shepherd, R. w_- 
1 0) Miller, G C Sherwin, Williai 
Simpson, J. 
10 00 Slater Sho 


Savage, J. G 
Schultze, EK, 
Scott, Jas 
Scott, J. H_ 
Scroggie, W. 


10 00 Morrison, Jas.. - 
5 00 Nelles, J. Wilmer. 


Lewis, David A.. 5 00 Newman, F. W_. 5 00 
Lewis, Lansing 5 00 Nicholson, G. € 5 00 
Liggett, Thos > 00 Nolan, W. H- 5 00 
Lilly, E. A_.2. 3 00 Notman, W., & Sor 10 00 
Lindsay, C. W 10 60 Nelson, A. D 5 00 ie 
Linton, Jas., & Co . 10 00 Newman, T. H. -- 500 | Southam, F: 
Lockerby Bros._-.. - 500 North West Smoke 7 Spark, Wm... 
Lord Strathcona and Preventer Co... = * Stevenson Blackader 
- 2 10 eae z 
25 00 Stevenson, 
5 00 


Stewart, Dr. Jas 
Stewart, W. H 
Stockdill, B. 


25 00 Packard, L. H., & C 
5 00 Palmer, J., & Son 


Lyman, W. E. --- e 
- 500 Palmer, W. 


Ludington, Tracy 
Laurie Rnplie Co-_. 10 00 Parkes, Davis 
McKergow, John_ ~ 10 00 Parker, EK. W 
Macintosh, John. ~ 10 00 Parkin, F, F 
Mackay, Robt____-- - 25 Paton, Hugh 
Mackenzie, Hecto: Ps 
McArthur, Alex_- 
MeCaskill, D. A. 

McClary Manf. Co 
McCuaig, C. J_. 

McDougall, Edgar 
McDougald, A. M__.__. 
McFarlane, Son & Pelton, G. 


Tester, J. W_ 
Thom, Jas. 
Thompson,B.&8.H. 
Thomson, M. 


Hodgson._ - 10 0 Pennell, M Tooke, B- 
MeLean, Chas - 500 Percival Bro: Tooke, R, J 
McLaren, D. K - 500 Percival, J. V Torrance, D., & Co 
Macaulay, T. B 3 00 Perry, A. A... Troy Steam Laundry G 
McArthur, Colin 30 00 Picken, Turnbull, John. 


McLeod, Hawthor Turpin, W.J. 
C 


5 00 Wallace, C.S 

5 00 Walker, H. W_ 
25 00 

5 00 

5 00 

5 00 

5 00 


1G. W., & Co. 
15 Del, aODE.. 2. | J. Se 
Renaud, King & 
Patterson 


Whitham, Jas., & 
Wilkins, Dr. Geo_ 
Williamson, D_ 
Williamson, Jas 
Williamson, T.. 
Wilson, Paterson & Co_ 
Wilson, Andrew 
Wilson, Mrs. A__” 
Wilson, Daniel. 
Wilson, Walter- 


Merchants Bank of 
Canada... __. 


23 


MEMBERSHIP COMMIT TEE. 


g the past year the Committee has aimed to faithfully dis- 
’ duties, during as nearly as possible, every one of the 
- hs just closed. Hearty efforts were made along the 
Bemont tain the memberships of old friends and to interest 
Hines, t° stan as possible, and the usual advertising by printed 
De the press, etc., which was even more thorough than 
¥ i d great eegults: the voluntary and unsolicited member- 
Bere in more freely than ever before. Our present sustain- 
ae of 244 is a further gratifying advance, our closing 
years having been 56, 126, 180, and now 244. 
entered January, 1901, with so large a total membership that 
mined, if possible, to pass the 2,000 mark before the close 
Jubilee year on April goth. Such good progress was made, 
soon advanced our goal to close in a better position than 
eh-water record of the Blue and Red membership contest of 
We early appealed to Association members and Committee 
join in the effort, and their loyal and hearty response, and 
j assistance proves that there is almost no limit to the possible 
e of our Association work if our members but identify them- 
.s heartily with it. 
ur campaign closed most satisfactorily, as can be seen from the 
« statement of membership and cash receipts therefrom :— 


in) 


Last year. 
| receipts from that source, $8,164.84. $6,670.90. Increase $1,493.94 
sl membership on April 3oth.. 2,070. 1,699 “ 371 
‘membership is made up as follows :— 
190I. 1900. 
te... 7OL Limited 5. fox. ss. 224 206 
. 887 Repulat..: sneeecy oa lsteo 8590 
— Sustaining .. .. .. 244—1,588 180 
1,588 Juniors: ...se ors” .” 232 178 
Honorary aise st. | 202 
Tile 2). Saenger le 186 
Subscribers. .. .. 137— 250 
2,070 1,699 
BERT CUTING VEati «0% -) cr aie ues! AO eney AD 498 
istimated receipts for the year .. .. .. .. .. .. «+ ++ + $6,750.00 
SE ce os walt ke. se wadian Be bee ee ee eed Anod 


e action of the Board of Directors in tendering every Montreal 
er on his return from South Africa a year’s membership ticket 
, was highly appreciated, and 61 men took advantage of the offer. 


24 


The Committee, although unable to personally attend the Kingston 
Convention last February, were able to send up their Secretary to 
represent them and report on his return. 

The Committee strongly felt the need of some suitable sign on 
our building. They were very glad, through the generous help of 
a number of friends, to be able without demand upon the Associa- 
tion Treasury, to place over the front door, the sign which now by 
day and night tells every passer-by the purpose of our fine building. 

The Committee have just provided a new means of studying the 
membership problem, in the shape of a large map of the city, upon 
which is marked out the home addresses of our entire membership, 
its special purpose being to prove what sections of the city we 
influence from our present headquarters, and at what points our first 
Branch Associations are most needed. 

We close, asking the continued co-operation of our members in 
making men acquainted with the privileges our building offers and 
in securing them as members. 


Respectfully submitted, 
RUFUS C. HOLDEN, 


Chairman. 
SUSTAINING MEMBERS. 

Adam, J. R. Buckner, Geo. W. Dawson. R. H. 
Allan, John. Budge, D. A. Denman, W. S. R. 
Andrews, Chas. L. Budge, Edgar C. Dixon, Robt. 

Arthur, Alec. Burrell, S. R. Doig, W. A. 

Atter, Jos. Burrell, W. G. Dowie, Ernest E. 
Auld, R. S. Calder, Robt. L. Dowsley, Edwin. 


Avon, Josef. 
Binns, T. W. C. 
Barber, E. B. 
Babcock, C. S. 


Bailey, W. Taylor. 


Baillie, John. 
Barlow, Fred. W. 
Barrington, T. M. 
Beardmore, Fred. 
Bell, J. Ritchie. 
Benedict, F. L. 
Bezanger, Gilbert. 
Birks, Gerald W. 
Bissett, W. J. 
Boothe, Geo. H. 
Brown, A. J. 
Brown, C. W. 
Brown, David. 
Brown, Geo. 
Bruce, Alex. 


Calhoun, C. K. 
Campbell, A. H. 
Campbell, W. R. 
Cantwell, John. 
Carlyle, Jas. W. 
Carmichael, W. 
Carsley, W. F. 


‘(Ghartton, R. i. 


Clelland, Wm. 
Coates, W. A. 
Cooper, F. 
Court, W. B. 
Coyle, E. J. 
Craig, W. W. 
Creak, Geo. 
Cresswell, D. T. 


Curtis, Graham W. 


Cushing, Lemuel. 
Dawson, A. B. 
Dawson, C. N. 


Duckett, W. J. 
Duckett, O. H. 
Edward, B. A. 

Egg, Herbert F. 
Elder, Dr. J. M. 
Elliott, W. R. 
Emerson, D. W. 
Field, H. H. 

Field, W. J. 

Finley, Dr. F. G. 
Finley, S. Arnold. 
Pisk EL. 2. 

Foster, B. F. 
Foster, D. Campbell. 
Fraser, Septimus. 
Gale, W. H. 
Gammell, I. 
Gatehouse. Geo. A. © 
Gear, W. I. 

Gibson, J. L. R. 


Gibson, R. H. 
Gnaedinger, J. T. 
Goodfellow, G. C. 
Gordon, Chas. B. 
Greenleese, A. W. 
Greenleese, H. S. 
Gregg, Geo. A. 
Greig, Jas. R. 
Greig, Robt. 
Gordon, Jas. R. 
Hains, J. McD. 
Halfyard, Saml. 
Hall-Avel:: 

Hall, W. M. 


Hamilton, Dr. W. F. 


Hardy, Geo. 
Harrower, G. H. 
Hawkins, F. E. 
Heaton, F. R. 
Hetherington, J. S. 
Hibbert, Isaac. 
Hodgson, C. A, 
Holden, J. C. 
Holden, R. C. 
Holland, C. C. 
Holland, H. H. 
Horsfall, Jos. L. 
Hunt, W. G. 
Harrower, J. M. 
Jacoboreitz, A. 
Johnston, Robt. 
Jones: A.) ds, Ee 
Jones, G.. W. 
Jones, LeRoy H. 
Kilgour, J. W. 
Kneeland, J. A. 
Laing, Jas. N. 
Lamb, Hy. M. 
Layton, H. A. 
Layton, P. E. 
Lee, E. D. 
Lemery, Jos. R. 
Leslie, W. S. 
Lighthall, G. R. 
Likely, Chas. T. 
Logan, RB. S. 
Lowles, G. A. 
Lyman, Chas. 
McCaskill, D. A. 
McGoun, D. M. 
MacKay, Chas. 
McKay, Thos. 
McKillop, A. 
McKim, A. 
McLagan, P. W. 
McLennan, Bartlett. 


25 


McLennan, Francis. 
McMahon, L. T. 
McRae, J. H. 
McGavin, D. 
McNutt, J. K. 
Macdonald, R. H. 
Macfarlane, A. B. 
Macfarlane, F. S. 
Macfarlane, P. A. 
Macintyre, D. E. 
Mackellar, A. 
MacLaurin, A. L. 
MacLean, A. N. 
Maguire, Saml. 
Manhire, F. C. 
Marrotte, L. H. 
Medley, W. G. 
Meyer, C. L. 
Moran, W. L. 
Morrice, D., Jr. 
Morrice, W. J. 
Mudge, A. L. 
Munderloh, H. 
Munro, A. J. 
Munro, D. D. 
Murray, Alex., Jr. 
O’Hara, W. W. 
Page, Geo. H. 
Palmer, Geo. 
Patch, H. H. 
Paterson, A. L. 
Paterson, J. C. 
Paterson, R. C. 
Paul, Frank. 
Paul, Fred. 
Peden, A. 

Peden, Alex., Jr. 
Picken, J. B. 
Pitblado, J. 


Plamondon, J. M. A. 


Porter, F. W. H. 
Porter, H. S. 
Peterson, Delmer. 
Ramsay, J. Hale. 
Rawstron, B. A. 
Reece, J. 

Reford. Andrew. 
Reid, Capt. Arch. 
Reid, Capt. Arch. 
Robarge, W. C. 
Robb, A. M. 
Roberton, C. H. 
Roberton, G. E. 
Ross, A. F.C. 
Ross, Jas. G. 
Ross, J. W. 


Ross, Lorne. 
Ross RIsBs or. 
Rowat, H. M. 
Rowat, F. N. 
Roy, John. 
Rykert, E. G. 
Shultz, O. A. 
Scott, John A, 
Scott, R. A. 
Sharpe, J. H. 
Shaw, Fred. W. 
Shaw, J. Fletcher, 
Smaill, A. E, 
Smith, H. J. 
Smith, R. C, 
Smyth, H. W. 
Spark, Wim. 
Spiers, H. A. 
Sproule, G. St. G. 
Stafford, H. J. 
Standish, R. F, 
Stanton, J. H. 
Stearns, H. E. 
Stevenson, B. B. 
Taylor, J. Haddon. 
Taylor, L. 
Tombs, Guy. 
Trenaman, T. S. 
Turnock, F. H. 
Underhill, C. S. 
Vasey, T. E. 
Walker, J. C. 
Walsh, W. H. 
Webber, F. G. 
Weller, H. W. 
Wells, G. C. 
West, Archie. 
Westoby, Hy. 
White, W. J. 
Whitehead, Wm. 
Williams, C. T. 
Willows, L. 
Wilson, F. C. 
Wilson, F. H. 
Wilson, Jas. 
Wilson, S. B. 
Wilson, W. W. C. 
Winter, G. E. 
Wood, A. F. 
Wood, H. R. 
Woodley, C. E. T. 
Waterman, P. A. 
White, A. L. 
Wainwright. W. A. 
Young, A. W. 
Young, W. 


REPORTS OF COMMITTEES. 


RELIGIOUS AND BIBLE STUDY DEPARTMENT. 


One of the chief features of the work of this department during 
the year was its reorganization at the beginning of the season in 
the effort to co-relate the various meetings and religious agencies 
of the Association under one general department Committee. This 
Committee has met regularly each month, usually on the first 
Thursday, for the consideration of reports from the Sub-Committees, 
and has taken united action upon all matters affecting the religious 
life and work of the Association. This effort to bring the religious 
work of the Association under one Committee has been successful 
and promises greater things for the future. The Sub-Committees 
report as follows :— 


YOUNG MEN’S MEETING. 


This meeting has been held every Saturday evening during the 
year, with an average attendance of 50, the same as last year. While 
the meeting runs considerably over this number during the fall and 
winter, in the summer months the attendance falls below, largely 
due, the Committee believe, to the absence from the city, on Saturday 
afternoon and evening of many, as a result of the general half-holiday 
during the summer months. The Committee, after earnest and care- 
ful discussion, suggest that the meeting be held on Thursday evening 
for the months of June, July and August. The meeting has been a 
source of great help and blessing to many. Conversation has been 
had with enquiriers nearly every week at the close of the meetings, 
and the invitation has been given regularly in connection with the 
meeting to those desirous of beginning the Christian life. The 
meeting has also been a training to many by taking part in personal 
testimony and words of comment upon the subject for the evening. 
Many young men have here received a development in Christian 
Bae vice which has fitted them for larger responsibilities in Christian 
work. 


MEN’S MEETING. 


This meeting was held on Sunday afternoon at 4.15, from October 
28th to April 28th, with a total attendance of 3,105, and an average 
attendance of 115. Special vocal music was arranged for nearly every 
meeting. The sticcess of the past winter’s work proves that there 
is a place for this meeting and that it is needed. Many have 
attended who do not come to any other religious meeting in the 
Association. The special features of the year were addresses by Dr. 
Barrie, on his return from South Africa; by Rey. Wm. Sparling and 
Rev. Dean Carmichael, at the Memorial Service of our late 
Sovereign ; and J. Campbell White, of Calcutta, India. With these 
exceptions all our speakers were from the city. Special mention 
should be made of the very interesting series of addresses in January 
reviewing the Nineteenth Century and forecasting the Twentieth in 


97 


ai 


its special bearing upon the religious life of young men. We are 
also deeply grateful to Prof. H. M. Tory, who gave a series of seven 
addresses on the general theme of ‘‘ What the coming of Jesus Christ 
to the World has meant to the Life and Thought of Men.” These 
were all a strong presentation of the truth and helpful and stimulat- 
ing to those who heard them. 


BIBLE STUDY DEPARTMENT. 


The Committee in charge of this work carefully planned a course 
of studies for the fall and winter months, and early in September 
issued a neat prospectus to members and others. A Bible Study 
Rally was held on Saturday evening, October 13th, which did much 
to interest men in the classes. These commenced October 16th, and 
met weekly on Tuesday evening, from seven to eight, until April 
30th. Tea was provided at the Building from 6.30 to 7.00 for those 
attending, at a cost of ten cents, which was appreciated both for the 
convenience and for the social intercourse enjoyed by the members 
of the classes. The following is a statement of the leaders and 
attendance at all classes :— 


Enrol- Total 

Study. Leader. When held. ment. Sessions. att. Avge. 

International 8.8, Lesson .... John Brown Sunday, 9.45 aan, 85 51 659 13 

Young Men's Bible Class... . D. A. Budge Fe 3-4 pan, 100 62 3451 66 

“Faith and Conduct” ........ ee Tuesday, 7-8“ 24 22 284 13 

“ Gospel History of Christ”....C. K. Calhoun a a=0 FS 27 29 520 18 

The Bible and its Use ... ......F. E, Burgess ¥ 7-87" 10 10 50 5 

+ se fe Uae « aed ORMAROY. a %e8r *S 11 1s 72 4 

*“ Christ Among Men” ..... ...A. M. Mackay ae w-S8 10 1s 90 5 
The Holy Land in Geography 

and History... ...,. «+s. ..--Prof, Jas. Ross $f 8-9 “* 30 19 380 20 

247 219 5506 144 

Season 1899-1900, totals,... ... ............ 188 206 4002 104 

Showing an increase of..... ......... 59 13 1504 40 


The thanks of the Committee and Association are due to Prof. 
Ross, and also to Mr. A. M. MacKay for their kindness in conducting 
their classes during the season. 


YOUNG MEN’S BIBLE CLASS. 


The average attendance at the class for the past year was 66, 
making a total attendance for the year of 3,451, being an increase 
of 789 compared with the previous year. During the season the class 
made a study of “ Twenty-five Important Decisions,” followed by 
“The Lives of Prominent men-in the Bible,” which has been of much 
interest and profit to the members. A Xmas Service was held on 
Sunday, December 23rd, when we were kindly assisted by Mrs. 
Budge, Messrs. J. S. Penman and A. Nettleship. Personal calls 
were made and flowers sent on several occasions to sick members. 


28 


The class appointed Mr. Wm. Young as a delegate to the Kingston 
Convention. The Annual Class Tea was held on Sunday, February 
24th, at which 113 men were present. Short addresses were given 
by Mr. T. C. Williams and Mr. L. H. Packard, which were much 
enjoyed. The thanks of the Committee are due to the Ladies’ Com- 
mittee for their kindness in preparing and serving the tea. Thanks 
are also due to the following gentlemen who conducted the class in 
the absence of Mr. Budge :—Rev. J. Gordon, Rev. Dr. Lawson, Rev. 
Dr. Johnston, Dr. Rutherford, N. Kobayashi, of Tokio, Japan, and 
C. K. Calhoun. 

We earnestly hope the members will make the class known as 
much as possible, so that more men may be benefited. 


HOSPITAL. 


The Western Hospital Committee report their work in a most 
satisfactory condition. Service is held in the wards of the hospital 
every Sunday morning. They have upwards of a dozen workers. 
engaged in this work, and desire to thank the ladies of Mountain 
Street Methodist Church Choir and Erskine Church Y.P.S.C.E., who 
sc ably assist with the music on alternate Sundays. Our thanks. 
are also due to the officials in the hospital whose hearty sympathy 
has been accorded throughout the year. That our work has been 
appreciated is evident from the many words of thanks received from 
the patients. We trust and pray that God will continue to bless the 
efiorts of the Committee during the coming year. 


G. H. HARROWER, 
Chairman. 


SOCIAL DEPARTMENT. 


In addition to the regular events, the Committee arranged for two 
new features this past season, as follows :— 

On St. Andrew’s night a Scotch Concert was given in Associa- 
tion Hall, which was largely attended. An admission fee of 25 cents, 
was charged and excellent talent provided. Our aim was to provide 
a first-class concert at a low cost, and many of the members availed 
themselves of the opportunity. It proved a success in every way. 

On March 7th we held an “At Home” to members and their lady 
friends, the idea being to provide an evening similar to a home 
gathering, with games, music, recitations and refreshments. About 
75 were present. It proved so successful that another was held on 
. April 23rd on a larger scale, and despite the unfavorable weather, 
over 100 attended. The members were invited alphabetically. It is 
hoped this feature may continue another year. 

On the evening of Thanksgiving Day we did not forget the young 
men away from home and prepared for them a supper. Over 60 sat 
down to the inviting tables, kindly provided and waited upon by the 
Ladies’ Committee. The usual toasts were proposed and responded” 
to, This supper is always heartily appreciated by the young men. 


29 


Our Annual Reception on New Year’s Day was a decided success. 
The Building was taxed to its utmost by visitors. Among the many 
attractions provided were the exhibition by the Physical Depart- 
ment in the Gymnasium, the Biograph views of the Grand Trunk 
Railway System and the South African war souvenirs. The Camera 
Club’s exhibit this year was exceptionally fine, and the excellence 
oi their work was much commented on. The usual evening concert 
was given in Association Hall. Illustrated views of Japan were 
shown in the Lecture Hall by our ex-President, Alderman H. B. 
Ames. The Association Orchestra furnished music in the afternoon 
and evening, and the ladies served refreshments in the Lecture Hall. 
The New Year’s Reception is always most enjoyable and is looked 
forward to by old and new members each year. 


THE STRANGERS’ TEA. 


Committee report having held eleven Sunday evening Teas during 
the year, with an average attendance of 30. Much the same plan 
has been carried on as in former years. One new feature is worthy 
oi mention. At least one of the Ladies’ Committee has been present 
at each of the Teas, giving the occasion a more home-like feeling. 
We take this opportunity of thanking the Ladies’ Committee for the 
assistance they have so kindly rendered us at all times, not only by 
their presence at the Teas, but also in the supplying of refreshments. 

For the benefit of those who may not be acquainted with this 
Committee, we would say that these Teas are held at 5.15 on Sunday 
evenings about once a month, to which are invited strangers in 
Montreal whom the Committee have learned of. Our object is to 
have them become acquainted with the Association and its work, and 
with one another. In this way many agreeable as well as helpful 
acquaintances have been formed, and we are encouraged by the 
results which have followed. Efforts are also made to introduce 
them to churches of their choice. 


THE EVENING RECEPTION COMMITTEE 


has had members on duty in the evenings on the reception floor 
throughout the year as faithfully as possible. The records show that 
over 255 strangers coming from Great Britain and_ Ireland, 


30 


Australia, South America, United States and our own country, have 
visited the Building and been welcomed by the members of the 
Committee. The Committee has also been instrumental in securing 
at least 30 new members for the Association during the year. In the 
summer and early fall a number of informal parlor entertainments 
were arranged for, which proved very enjoyable, and interested a 
large number of young men. The members of the Committee have 
assisted at various social entertainments during the year, and have 
been of assistance to the office when required, during the specially 
busy evenigs of October and November. 


ALEX. ARTHUR, 


Chairman. 


EDUCATIONAL DEPARTMENT. 


Instruction was given during the past season in 14 different 
subjects, with a view to rendering the utmost practical assistance to 
young men employed during the day. In 6 of these subjects instruc- 
tion was given in both elementary and advanced grades. Twenty- 
three classes were held, 6 meeting once a week, and 17 twice a week, 
making a total of 40 classes each week. 

Four hundred and two individual students entered the classes, with 
a total enrolment of 578 (some students taking more than one class) 
being a gain of 55 per cent. over last year. 

It became necessary to divide the Elementary French class after 
the season opened, owing to its size, and Mr. F. de Repentigny was 
engaged to teach the extra class. The sessions of the German class 
were increased from three-quarters of an hour to one hour each, 
The Advanced class in English was replaced this year by a course 
in English literature, under Mr. I. Gammell, B.A. Shakespeare’s 
“Merchant of Venice” and “ Hamlet” were studied. Ladies intro- 
duced by members of the Association were admitted to this class. 
The Isaac Pitman system of Phonography was taught this season, 
and an Advanced class added. A class in Algebra and Geometry 
was added to the curriculum for the benefit of the students in 
Electricity. It was found, however, that the students entering varied 
very much in their knowledge of Mathematics, and some better plan 
will have to be adopted for another season. A class in Elementary 
Architectural Drawing was added this year. While it was not large, 
yet the interest and attendance was above the average. New classes 
were also held in Electricity and Commercial Law. The latter class 
proved very popular and useful among young business men. 

The other classes were carried on as formerly. Students are 
required to be full members of the Association, and to pay a small 
tuition fee. Sustaining members were exempt from fees. 

Seventy different students wrote on the International Examina- 
tions conducted in Arithmetic, Stenography, English, Electricity, 
Bookkeeping, and Mechanical Drawing. Forty-one of these have 
been passed by the teaching staff and their papers sent to the Inter-” 
national Board of Examiners, New York City. 


ol 


Of this number thirty-five were granted certificates by the Interna- 

tional Board, as follows :— 

English, Elementary.—F. Slocombe, 85; A. Weir, 75; J. W. Weir, 75. 

Arithmetic, Elementary.—D. Wright, 8o. 

Arithmetic, Advanced.—J. Atter, 95; H. Stafford, 92: H. T. Owens, 
80; W. H. Whinfield, 79; L. Willows, 75. 

Mechanical Drawing, Elementary.—F. 8B. Kilbourn, 92; W. J. 
Phillips, 89; A. S. Richardson, 80; D. Angus, 78. 

Mechanical Drawing, Advanced.—H. W. Meyers, 80; J. W. Buckland, 
80; B. R. Deacon, 77; E. Duckett, 75. 

Electricity, Elementary.—S. McOuat, 86; A. A. Owens, 77. 

Bookkeeping, Elementary.—H. Stafford, 100; Walter Lauer, 84; 
H. T. Somers, 83; T. S. Trenaman, 83. 

Bookkeeping, Advanced.—H. H. Hopkins, 94; F. R. Yule, 93; E. L. 
Miles, 92; F. A. Crowe, 88; R. E. Dixon, 88; W. J. Marshall, 84; 
J. W .Carlyle, 82; E. E. Hamilton, 77. 

Stenography, Advanced.—J. McKeen, 98; E. C. Budge, 95; J. H. 
Taylor, 80; D. E. McIntyre, 80. 


Special attention was given to the social side of the educational 
work with gratifying results. The opening Educational Rally, 
usually held the latter part of September, or the first week of October, 
took place this year on December 6th, after the classes had got well 
under way. It was attended by about 400 of the students and their 
friends, and was more strictly an educational gathering than any 
of the receptions heretofore. The programme consisted of an 
address to the students by our President, Mr. C. T. Williams, music 
and refreshments. Early in the season steps were taken to form 
what afterwards became an educational league. This is a group of 
students, consisting of a Chairman and Secretary elected from each 
class, forming a student body representative of all our evening 
classes. It resulted in the students of the various classes becoming 
better acquainted and contributing valuable suggestions as to the 


conduct of the work as a whole. The closing event of the season 
was our Educational Supper on Thursday evening, April 18th, at 
which 140 students, teachers and committeemen were present. 
Excellent addresses were given by Messrs. H. B. Ames, Henry 
Miles, Prof. H. M. Tory, A. M. MacKay, Isaac Gammell, and others. 
Great interest in our evening class work was developed, and we 
believe that its result on next season’s work will be very consider- 
able. Increased class room accommodation is urgently needed for 
the future of the work. It must be remembered also that the cost 
oi the classes is paid, year by year, from the current revenue, so that 
it is impossible to hold classes in any given subject unless a sufficient 
attendance is secured to cover a certain proportion of the cost. 
We could reach a great many more men had we an endowment of 
some kind which would enable us to hold classes for smaller groups 
of men. This becomes a necessity, as subjects are graded to meet 
the needs of advanced students, 
A statement of the class attendance is given herewith :— 


ENGLISH. Vocat Music. 

Teacher: Mr. I. Gammell, B.A. Teacher: Mr. J. H. Morse. 
Enrolment a.-3.o5 ¢ ee 22 Enrolment .. . 20 
Tessons: (seme oe 48 JeeSsOuS#) i, .: ee. 24 
Average attendance. ee Average attendance. se 

GERMAN. 
ARITHMETIC. f 

Teacher: Mr. I. Gammell, B.A. Se wea Gotthard L. 
Enrolment .. .. . > 54 EATOMMCHIOs amet ata. TO 
Peers Be cen pees 44 Tascone. a.” - bet) 46 

verage attendance. - 28 Average attendance. .. .. 13 
BOOKKEEPING. FRENCH, 

Teacher: Mr. A. W. ae el Teachers: Mr. T. Dambach, 
Enrolment .. . 5 Mr. F. qCREREREDY:: 
essons. <.. eee, 48 Enrolment .. . . 83 
Average attendance. sae. 2 Lessons’. . =. ae oe, 

$s se hey wenn Average attendance. .. .. 29 


: SHAKESPEARIAN CLASs. 
Teacher: Mrs, A. W. Young. Teacher: Mr. I. Gammell, B.A. 


eS cele Sn naam? a Enrolment. ..0. Pros 
Average attendance. hy eS Lessons .. .. aes oe 
me Average attendance. ieee. 20). 
PENMANSHIP. ELocution. 
Teacher: Mr. A. W. ewong Teacher: Mrs. Belle Rose 
Enrolment .. .. 44 Emslie, 
Lessons .. .. ree x 24 Enrolment .. + NS ES 
Average attendance. .. .. 17 Lessons .. . see 23 
% Average attendance. 8 
ELEcrRicity, ARCHITECTURAL DRAWING. 
Teacher: Mr. J. W. Fraser, Teacher: Mr. H. C. Stone. 
B:Se. Bnrolmentys = cs, U5. tiers 
Enrolment (as ass ast 3) 33 essoneern’..; ne eae 
Lessons... se se 42 Average attendance. Seni be 
Average attendance. .. .. 13 ComMERCIAL LAw. 
MECHANICAL DRAWING. Teacher: Mr. E. E. Howard 
Teacher: Mr. Geo. A. GESBE. B.A. ‘ 
Barolmentts.. paceman. 33 Mnrolmenty, 65 fs va 26430 
AJESEGHSE.d-), ees. 4S Lessons:. / <5 Jn eee 


Average attendance. ee a5 Average attendance. ae ee 


33 


The following are extracts from letters received from last year’s 
students :— 

“T have attended the evening classes for the past three years, and 
the practical knowledge acquired has been of the greatest value to 
me. I have always found the teaching well adapted to the varied 
needs of commercial life, and have no hesitation in saying that there 
is no more helpful institution in Montreal for young men who wish 
to increase their efficiency than the Educational Department of the 
Y.M.C.A. It is to be commended in the first place because the 
subjects taught are those best suited for young men, and, secondly, 
because its advantages are within the reach of all. 

‘Wishing you every success, I am,’ 


“T cannot pass without speaking of the many benefits received 
through attendance at the Y.M.C.A. Educational classes, my chief 
regret being that I did not take advantage of them long ago. I 
believe their usefulness to young men engaged in mercantile life 
cannot be overestimated, and any who neglect the opportunities for 
improvement thus offered are doing themselves a great injustice. I 
can certainly commend them to any young man as a first- class means 
of overcoming any deficiencies in his school training..’ 


A. M. MACKAY, 
Ghairman. 


READING ROOM AND LIBRARY. 


There is no part of our Building so largely used as our Reading 
Room, not only by our members, but by visitors and strangers, and 
it is the constant aim of the Committee to keep it thoroughly abreast 
of the times. 

There are 148 periodicals on the tables and files, 37 being donated 
by the publishers and friends, and the balance paid for by the Com- 
mittee at a cost of $241.92. The following new periodicals have 
been added to the list :— 


Black and White, Fliegenden Blatter, 
Canadian Architect and Builder, Chicago Record, 
British Monthly, Musical Opinion, 
Photographic Times, Musical Herald. 


A few of the better class magazines have been kept on the tables 
in the parlors. This has been appreciated by our members, as the 
parlor is a comfortable place to spend a quiet social hour. Our sale 
of magazines and papers took place late in December and realized 
$78.33. The sale next year will be held on the first Thursday in 
December. 

The Library is being used to a greater extent every succeeding 
year. The number of books given out during ihe year was 7,665, as 
compared with 5,667 the preceding year. Of this number 69 per 
cent. was fiction, 5 per cent. religious, 6 per cent history, 2 per cent. 
travel, 2 per cent. biography, 7 per cent. science, 2 per cent. poetry, 
I per cent. social and political, and 6 per cent. miscellaneous. Seven 
hundred and seventeen members have used the Library, as compared 
with 638 last year. There are now 3,905 volumes in the Library. One 
hundred and sixty-five have been added during the year. 


34 


The following are a few of the most popular books with our 
readers at present :—Eben Holden, Janice Meredith, Richard Carvel, 
Soldiers of Fortune, In the Palace of the King, Black Rock, Sky 
Pilot, Alice of Old Vincennes, Heart of the Ancient Wood, Seats of 
the Mighty, Chien D’Or, Les Miserables, Wild Animals I have 
known, Royal Manhood, How England saved Europe,, The Great 
Boer War, From London to Ladysmith via Pretoria, The Habitant, 
Great Books as Life Teachers, Forty-one years in India. 

Donations of books, or money to buy books, will be gratefully 
received. The usefulness of the Library would be greatly 
increased by a reclassification of all the books and the instituting 
of the card system of cataloguing; in fact this is very much needed. 
It is hoped that we will be able to obtain the necessary funds to do 
this during the present summer. 

I. GAMMELL, 


Chairman. 


CAMERA CLUB. 


Meetings have been held regularly, and the membership has 
increased considerably. It has been quite a successful year, as has 
been shown by the fine exhibits of work. The exhibition given in 
the Board Room on New Year's Day would have done credit to 
any photographic show rooms in the city, and this was one of the 
most popular points of interest in the New Year's Day reception. A 
collection of about forty photographs was sent to the Kingston 
Convention Exhibit, and it is needless to say that it compared favor- 
ably with the exhibits from other Associations. Another collection 
is in course of preparation for the Boston Jubilee Convention in June. 
We hope to do ourselves credit there also. 

A Competition was held among the members of the club during 
the winter, and the number of entries was larger than any previous 
year. The judges mentioned that the work was of an unusually high 
order for amateur work. The thanks of the club are due Mr. 
George Barratt and Mr. A. I. Rice for prizes given by them. The 
studio and dark rooms have been well used. ‘The former has been 
greatly improved, especially by the addition of a large back ground, 
the gift of Mr. Rice. These rooms are accessible at any time to the 
club members by applying at the office for the keys. 


H. W. WELLER, 
Chairmane. 


PHYSICAL DEPARTMENT. 


In reviewing the work of the past year, we are pleased to be able 
to report the interest in the various divisions of this department well 
sustained, and the work in all the clubs satisfactory. Last year, Mr. 
George E. Winter resigned his position as Assistant Physical 
Director, and the duties of that office were assumed by Mr. A. B. 
Dawson, who during the past year has rendered most efficient service. 
All the clubs have closed their year in good financial standing, the 
accounts of two balance exactly, while the remaining seven show a 
credit balance varying from 42 cents to $47.15. 


Or 
vo 


In connection with the general work of the Physical Department, 
it seems fitting that the present should record the step taken in con- 
nection with League Games. Some weeks ago, through the Physical 
Committee, an application was made to the Directorate for permis- 
sion to enter League games. This application, which once again 
raised the question now some years in abeyance, was dealt with by 
the Board with the greatest of consideration, and it was with much 
pleasure that the reply was received, granting permission under 
certain conditions for the Baseball Club to enter the League. 

At the beginning of the year Dr. W. F. Hamilton resigned his 
position as examiner in the Gymnasium Department, and was suc- 
ceeded by Dr. F. W. Gilday. To Drs. W. S. Morrow and F. W. 
Gilday the thanks of the Committee are due for the service so 
efficiently rendered. 

Another matter which comes out of a careful review and com- 
parison of the figures denoting the attendance in the Gymnasium 
Classes during the last ten years, is the general marked improvement 
in the regularity of attendance on the classes throughout the year. 
This, we think, indicates that there is a more fixed purpose on the 
part of those entering upon the autumn work, and at the same time 
proves the greater acceptableness and efficiency of the work. 


LEADERS’ CORPS. 
PEGE: eee es... EE PDE Nes ICETDS 


The Leaders’ Corps has framed its Constitution and had it printed 
with the By-Laws of the Physical Department. This step seems to 
be already warranted by the numerous demands for this constitution 
from many other Associations throughout Canada, the United 
States and Ireland. 

The members enrolled in this corps number twenty-four. 

Your Committee appreciate the faithful services rendered by the 
Leaders, and it is felt that their co-operation with the Physical 
Director is indispensable. Our most cordial thanks are hereby 
extended to them. 


BICYCLE CLUB: 


Prestaetianar ca aa.h 6+ 0 eels 1 ALO AWSON, 


The interest in the Bicycle Club has been fully sustained. The 
social side of the members’ life was developed through the hospitality 
shown to this club, and many pleasant recollections gather round the 
outings. The club closed the year with a small balance to its credit. 


THE BOWLING ALLEY. 


The bowling alleys were thoroughly renovated at the beginning 
of the season, which opened on the 14th of November, and closed 
on the 27th of April. It has been a very satisfactory one in regard 
to the attendance of the bowlers on the alleys, and the club closes the 
year with a balance of $47.15 in the treasury. 


36 


TENNIS CLUB. 
Presidents) GR, :. 0." ce Renee WEL SHARE: 


The membership is 37. The club played three other tennis clubs in 
a series of games, winning third place. The ensuing year promises 
to be one of increased activity and interest, on account of the new 
arrangements entered into last autumn, by which the vacant ground 
about the Western Hospital was secured. Thus five courts will be 
provided. This club also, while under considerable expense, closed 
the year with some balance in the treasury. 


BASEBALL CLUB. 
Secretary-Treasurer .. .... .. i... F. A, CROWE. 


The Montreal Baseball Park has again been secured. The 
membership during the past year has numbered 30. Four matches 
were played with other teams, all of which resulted in decided victory 
for the club. The balance is on the right side. 


ATHLETIC CLUB. 


PVOSIDEHE ene sean as Les.  c.2, pe WEBBER, 


The past year has been the most prosperous year of this club. 
Some of its members took part in the M.A.A.A. handicaps and made 
a very fair showing. A permanent athletic ground is still a great 
want felt by this club. It is believed that the Annual Field Day, held 
September 27th, was one of the most successful ever held by the 
Association, the attendance being much larger than usual. There 
were 130 entries for about 65 men. The liberality of the friends of 
the Athletic Club in providing the prizes is hereby gratefully acknow- 
ledged. The balance to the credit of the club is $3.00. 


37 
HOCKEY CLUB. 
President. Js cee wenn «- +s ee ee Ae B. SMAILE. 


The membership last year was the highest in the history of the 
club, and while in point of numbers this club was a great success, 
the opportunities for play both from lack of space and on account 
of bad weather, were not good. The usual Hockey Tournament 
was run through successfully, the winners being, Team D., cap- 
tained by H. T. Watt. The credit balance is $5.75. 


SNOWSHOE CLUB. 
President .. .. .. .. .. .. ++ «+ Geo. E. WINTER. 


This club was reorganized this winter, and great interest was 
exhibited throughout the entire season. Nine tramps across the 
Mountain were enjoyed. The average attendance out of an enrolled 
membership of 43, was 31. The season ended on the 4th of April 
with an “At Home” given in the Association Parlors and attended 
by about 7o. 


THE GYMNASIUM CLASS attendance is as follows :— 


Class. Sessions. Average. Total. 
Ndvancede tac? Gas ee coat... MOR II 748 
Intermediate. 4 <2 sy 2a. os... OF 17 1,106 
Elementary: . Dhue et ee 67 39 3,211 
Tuniog Sits ee wer, a 33 2,215 
Studentsa 2 “sais coud ate host A 17 936 
Bayss isaueicie at iceabes; «MBO 43 4,478 
Business Men,..... <2 .. -.-. 58 18 1,005 
Dieaders..28.2 23ers cds.) Re 24 834 


The Students’ and Business Men's classes are less than last year. 
All other classes show a large increase. 

The total number of members registered in the classes is 572, an 
increase of 116 over last year. 


Of new members examined there were :— 


Wot sen)... ... a) aeegae, amClease3r: 
BOVSaeeer Galas. SeReLS, 16. 
RSC er ha:8 25 a ESS sf 47. 


In addition, many members were re-examined during the year. 


W. F. HAMILTON, M.D., 
Chairman. 


38 
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT, 


In presenting the report of the past season’s work your Com- 
mittee feel that there is cause for great thankfulness to God for the 
measure of success which has attended the department throughout 
another year, and realize, as never before, the importance of the 
work as they have come into contact with the increasing number 
of boys who are availing themselves of the privileges offered for 
self-improvement. The statistics given below will show to what 
extent these privileges have been used. 

RELIGIOUS.—The Boys’ Meeting has been conducted each 
Friday night and has been a great help to the Christian boys, while 
many who did not profess to be Christians have taken a definite 
stand for Christ. 

Six sessions of the Boys’ Rally were held on Sunday afternoon, 

A service of song has been conducted in the General Hospital 
on the first Sunday of each month. 

Two Bible Training Classes have met regularly throughout the 
season. The “ Life of Christ” was taught by Mr. Wm. Young, and 
“ Bible Heroes” by Mr. John Brown. 

The money subscribed through the Missionary boxes will be 
spent in the interests of the work for boys in India. 


EDUCATIONAL.—The holding of evening classes for Business 
Boys was a new feature of the department. The large enrolment and 
faithful attendance of the students has shown the wisdom of this 
step. Should the accommodation be provided the Committee believe 
that this branch of the work will grow to very large proportions 
within the next few years. 

Additions have been made to the Library from time to time, and 
the number of periodicals in the Reading Room has been increased. 

SOCIAL.—The Social work has been maintained throughout the 
year. Special mention should be made of the Opening and Closing 
Entertainments, Illustrated Lecture by Mr. John Currie, and the 
Annual Sleigh Drive. The Closing Entertainment was largely 
attended, numbering upwards of 530, including parents and boys. 
All day outings and snowshoe tramps have also added interest to 
this phase of the work. 

Much has been added to the attractiveness of the rooms by their 
being retinted, and your Committee feel sure the members will one 
and all show their appreciation of this by doing all they can to keep 
them in their present condition. 

PHYSICAL.—Great interest has been manifested in the Gym- 
nasium Classes and they have been well attended. 

The “Tom Thumb” and “ Giant Killers” Basket ball Tourna- 
ments have been conducted successfully, keen competition being 
displayed in each series. Photographs of the winning teams, the 
“Stars” and “ Vics.” were taken. A photograph was also taken of 
the School Boys’ “ Gymnasium Class Leaders.” 

THE JUNIOR CAMP was held from 28th June to r4th July. As 
hitherto, it was most successful, and the Committee are looking 
forward to this year’s camp with even brighter prospects. 

COMMITTEE WORK.—Faithful and conscientious work has 


been performed by the 45 boys who served on the various 
Committees. 


39 


The Committee regret the withdrawal from active service of 
Mr. R. B. Ross, Jr., late Chairman of the department, who removed 
from the city. 

The Committee would like to testify to the diligent and earnest 
work of Mr. John Brown, who has had the supervision of the 
department during the year, 

The following figures show the average attendance at the various 
meetings and classes :— 


Membership =. 09s. «1. .. .. .. 233, am increase. of 55 
Religious Work. Average. 
SOD ONGMINGECIOS Ni. us « cgshler Jie aoe eur ee PAO 
OM OVGmRalMeStyr. js 0 6. «Geb. aon Seber es, AS 
SetOspitale Services... .. ..)uethieen co Matec e ibaa 
ASPD IDLER GIASSOS OR hs c's oe. sa kee eile ate ee eae) 
30 Missionary Subscribers .. .. .. .. .. .. .. $34.12 


Educational Classes. 
(Bookkeeping, Penmanship and Arithmetic.) 


Different Pupils enrolled .. .... Sood 

Averagewartendance... .: . ig. 4. sae cere 2+ +. 20 
Physical. | 

SchoIl%Boys’ Gymnasium Class .. 1... .. .. .. 47 

Business. Boys’ Gymnasium Class... .. ...... .. 34 

Camp. . Bape on aah wien mel re oe feoes 3 52 

LEMUEL CUSHING, 

: Chairman. 


PERMANENT CAMP COMMITTEE, 


Every year witnesses a great increase of interest in our camp, as 
well as a larger number of members attending. 1900 breaks all 
former records. 


The Juniors had the use of the club house from July 1st to July 
14th. Fifty-two took advantage of camp privileges last season, as 
against 37 the year before ; of the former number 41 were out for full 
length of time. There were an unusual number of rainy days during 
the two weeks, but this did not dampen their enthusiasm. 

Receipts from Junior camp were $441.23, expenditure $433.32, 
leaving a balance on hand of $7.01. 

The Senior Department handled two parties, one in May, the other 
in September, last year, in addition to the regular summer season, 
which extended from July 14th to September 4th. It was without 
doubt the best year in the camp’s history, as is shown by the follow- 
ing figures. Total receipts from Senior Camp were $1,175.99 ; 
disbursements, $1,175.99; expenses, $1,190.05; balance due Permanent 
Camp Committee, $14.06. 


Your Committee beg to report as follows :— 


42 
RAILROAD DEPARTMENT, POINT ST. CHARLES. 


In reviewing the work of the year I have endeavored to give you 
as clear and exact a report as possible; but, while at present we are 
carrying on a good work, our equipment and premises will not admit 
of our extending or enlarging it. God is certainly blessing the work 
among the railroad men, as is manifested by the several conversions 
during the year, and we have every reason to render Him our 
sincere thanks. The railway men are certainly showing their appre- 
ciation of our endeavors to furnish them with a good home away 
from home, by the large numbers who have applied for membership, 
and whom we have had to turn away owing to lack of room. Our 
united prayers are that God will in His loving kindness open up the 
way for us, and that this long looked for new building will soon 
be an established fact. 


MEMBERSHIP.—Our membership on May Ist, 1900, was 149, 
and on April 30th, 1901, was 163, showing an increase of 14 members, 
made up of 131 railroad men and 32 others. During the year 27 
members have withdrawn or removed, most of them, however, trans- 
ferred to other Associations. 


DAILY VISITS.—The total number of visits to the rooms during 
the year was 29,581, a daily average of 83. 

MEETINGS.—The attendance at our Saturday night Men’s 
meetings was 735, average weekly attendance, 14. This number 
should be more, as no meetings were held during the months of 
August and September. 

MR. BLACKALLER’S BIBLE CLASS.—Two months ago, our 
Chairman, Mr. Blackaller, started a Men’s Topical Bible Class, and 
during the past four of five meetings the smallest number we had was 
18. At our last meeting there were 32 men present. 


SUNDAY MORNING CLASS.—The Sunday morning Bible 
Class, held from 9.30 to 10.30, led by the Secretary, is also meeting 
with success. The attendance during the year was 402, average 8. 

SUNDAY AFTERNOON MEETING.—Our Sunday afternoon 
Meetings, held at 4.15 for railroad men, their families and friends, 
has proved to be one of the best features of our work. During the 
past two or three months we have had repeatedly to turn people 
away. The attendance during the past twelve months, 4,462, 
average, 86. 

MEN’S SUNDAY TEA MEETING.—On the second Sunday of 
each month, the Women’s Auxiliary, at the close of the afternoon 
service, invite all the railroad men running into Montreal whose 
homes are not in the city, to remain and have supper with us. The 
average attendance at these meetings was 19. 


BATHS.—The number of baths taken during the year was 1,788, 
daily average, 5. We have two tub baths, and one shower, with hot 
and cold water. 

REST ROOMS.—During the twelve months, 4,311 men have 
used our rest rooms, average, 12. As we have only 10 beds, you will 
see that we have slept two more each night than we have beds for. 
In our Association it is a case of first come, first served. This will 
show the need of larger premises. . 


LUNCH ROOM.—Our kitchen, where there is a gas stove 


45 


provided for the men to cook their meals, is much used, as a great 
number of the men carry their food with them. 


HOSPITAL WORK.—Eight hundred and seventy-three sick and 
injured men were visited during the year by our Hospital Committee. 
Mr. Thomas Davis, the convener, deserves special mention for his 
unfailing and ever faithful attention to this important duty. Our 
ambulance and emergency hospital room was used 24 times during 
the year, average, twice a month. 


SOCIALS.—We have had several enjoyable socials, one of the 
best being the Farewell Social and Presentation to Mr. Morrison. 
The enjoyable part was not in the fact of Mr. Morrison’s going 
away, but in the good time enjoyed by all. Mr. Morrison was 
presented by the Directors with a handsome travelling case, while 
the members presented him with a “ bureau” trunk. In presenting 
Mr. Morrison with the trunk, Mr. Sam. Pugh, in the name of the 
Association, wished Mr. Morrison all possible success in his new 
field. Mr. Morrison left Montreal at the end of September, having 
received and accepted a call to the Association at Concord, N.H. 
Another enjoyable Social was the Annual Supper, at which a 
presentation was made to Miss Blackaller, who acted as organist for 
our Association ever since its inception four years ago. 


CONCERT.—On October 30th, we held our first Annual Concert 
in the Hall of the Grand Trunk Reading Room and Scientific 
Institute. This was a grand success. After paying all expenses we 
had a balance in our favor of $65.00. 


NEW YEAR’S DAY.—On New Year’s Day we held open house 
all day, the ladies assisting in decorating the rooms, providing 
refreshments, etc. We had over 200 callers, and in the evening were 
packed to overflowing and had a most enjoyable concert. 


THE WOMEN’S AUXILIARY.—The Women’s Auxiliary is one 
of the most flourishing branches of our Association. Mrs. W. H. 
Mingie is President, Miss Lucy White, Secretary, and Miss Mingie, 
Treasurer. The ladies have always shown a deep interest in our 
work, and we have great pleasure in testifying to the helpful work they 
have rendered, not only in looking after our temporal requirements, 
but also our spiritual wants. They have always been equally willing 
to assist the Treasurer when called upon, and after helping us sub- 
stantially during the year, they have been able to carry forward a 
balance of $51.00. 


FINANCIAL STATEMENT. 


REcEIPTS. 
Balancevon hand, May ist, 1900.. .5 os. «. s1.+- $42 43 
Railroad and other appropriations .. .. .. .. .. 956 00 
Membership Fees—Railroad men... .. .. .. .. .. .. 305 00 
OINECS aces OMA. nee GAP eh adtad) FOSA00 
SHDSCHptOn san ea Cw REM inc ities: 2s ad Sze ler. oS ual wes 2ST 7S 
UWSGROtADedson My eee mes? Se pale Galas AF 80 
R. Hemsley, for Watch Inspection .. .. .. .. .. .. 132 00 
Total + S, Seeeener $1,829 04 


44 j 


EXPENDITURE. 
Salaries: av ss hi See ts es VERE Dd 0d BE SOS2IOS 
Cleaning. ote cen. cee 53 50 
Bathtoom Expenses 72 eee sc eet te Ge, be oe, SOBRE 
RELIOGiCAalS oe eee at iE es. oe Ore are ps up POC RA 
Stationery, Postage, efor, = 64) seen Ge as. oe Gl 040. 
reatuand ‘Dashes ee. vcs eee gs | es ee 
Purniture and! Repairs. sf. tee 20 Bey See pe ys OT 
RELISTOUS — WOK: ain cers seers o> 5. 9 ogee ee ceri 
Socialo Work cacm ate e een 3. nn Pea. | RZUTO 
Sundries). Ue 4 ere... < hea heer ate tas «903 50 
(eatindty matte ek eae A eee. «3. GeURO Meme ot ire TENS 
1,797 62 
Balanceu tes cb caeeee |. : SRR Repeats 
Totaiee srw ae. 5. wi. L0G Pa B20) 04: 


W. H. BLACKALLER, 
Chairman. 


IN CONCLUSION. 


A word about Life Assurance. It is both Protection and 
Investment. Nothing protects so securely as a policy in a reliable 
Assurance Company like the Sun Life of Canada,—as regards invest- 
ment, many people say this ““ Prosperous and Progressive’? Company 
is a leader. Here is an extract from a letter recently received from 
Mr. D. H. Maclaren, a prominent druggist of Barrie, Ont.:— 


* Being a firm believer in life assurance, I carry policies in the 
three leading Canadian companies and one in an American company, 
but I have always received larger profits from the Sun Life of 
Canada than from any other company. A short time ago I had a 
15-year Endowment with accrued profits matured in another Canadian 
company for $2,000, and upon the $2,000 for the same period, the 
profits were almost identical as I received on $1,000 in the Sun Life 
of Canada. This is a fair comparison, and shows why I lately took 
$2,000 more assurance in the Sun Life Assurance Company of 
Canada. I might also state that the amount received on my policy 
just matured is more than the agent with whom I placed the assur- 
ance told me it would likely amount to.” 


It may be worth your while to keep in touch with the Sun Life of 
Canada. Sunshine, the Company's monthly, is on the Y.M.C. A® 
Reading Room table. It will keep you posted. 


ADDRESSES, JUBILEE CELEBRATION, JUNE 8-10, 1901. 


The fiftieth anniversary of the organization of the Young 
Men’s Christian Association in the City of Montreal was 
celebrated by a series of Jubilee meetings on June 8, 9, and 
10, as follows:— 

On Saturday night, June 8th, at 7.45 o’clock, in Association 
Hall, an opening song service was conducted by Mr. J. 
Ritchie Bell, after which Mr. L. H. Packard took the chair. 
The hall was well filled with Association members and their 
friends, including many prominent delegates from Great 
Britain, United States and Canada, who had come to partici- 
pate in the meetings. 

On the platform were seated: Messrs. F. E. Grafton, P. 
W. Wood and David Bentley, Charter members ; Messrs. 
Geo. Brush, J. R. Dougall, Charles Alexander, Henry 
Morton, Jas. Ross, Joseph Rielle, John Murphy, and other 
early officers and committeemen, besides representatives from 
Great Britain, the United States and Canada. 

The meeting opened with the singing of the Doxology, 
and the hymn, “ O, God, our help in ages past,” after which 
Rev. J. A. Gordon, of the First Baptist Church, read the 
Scriptures and led in prayer. 


Mr. L. H. Packarp, Chairman, said :-— 


“We are here to-night to thank God for all His mercies during 
the last fifty years which have passed away, never to be recalled 
except in memory. As we look back we see how, year after year, 
His guiding hand has brought us thus far on the way, and has so 
blessed and honored the Association that we cannot but feel that the 
most devoted, earnest and practical way we could have of celebrat- 
ing our Jubilee to-night would be simply in a season of prayer and 
supplication and praise. But we have here with us so many 
friends who have come to share with us in this rejoicing upon our 
prosperity, through God, that I know you will have pleasure in 
meeting and hearing them.” 


Mr. C. K. Calhoun, Assistant Secretary, read a number of 
letters from the following gentlemen expressing regret that 


46 


it was impossible for them to be present at this Jubilee 
Celebration :—Messrs. James Stokes, New York City; F. M. 
Pratt, Toronto; Robt. Kilgour, Toronto; F. W. Ober, 
Editor “Association Men,” Chicago ; Geo. E. Williams, St. 
John, N.B.; Geo. A. Coxhead, St. Louis; L. W. Messer, 
Chicago ; W. H. Morriss, Baltimore, Md.; and others. 


Mr. C. T. Wretiams, President, welcomed the visitors as 
follows :— 


“T feel proud to be introduced as President of the Montreal 
Young Men’s Christian Association. It is an honor to any man in 
this city, or even if he came from another, but when I think that 
this is our fifty years Jubilee, and when I listen to such letters as 
those which have just been read, and hear of the interest and the 
work which has always been done by Montreal, I feel like Jamie in 
the ‘Bonnie Briar Bush.” We have met here together that we 
might thank God for the way in which He has led us for the past 
fifty years, and to look forward to the years that are to come, and 
see something of the work opening before us. I hope we may not 
be liited up with pride as we think of all that God has enabled us 
to do in this city, and throughout this land, and perhaps even 
beyond the borders of Canada. When we think of it all we are 
rather humbled, and would give all the glory to Him who has given 
us this great opportunity of service for young men. 

“There are upon this platform a few .of the men who have seen 
all the years that this Association has seen. We are honoured in 
their presence to-night, and it is with reverence that we welcome 
them, and we envy them the feelings they must have as they sit 
here and see what God has wrought, and what He has permitted to 
grow from that seed they planted fifty years ago. We have here 
also our city pastors. We can say in Montreal that the city pastors 
look upon the Association, not as a rival, but as a hand of the 
Church put out to take hold of this work which the church must do. 
We have here our Provincial Committee, a committee with whom it 
is a pleasure to work, and with whom we have been blessed in 
working all these years. We have here also the International Com- 
mittee. What shall I say about them? The fact is, the work be- 
tween this Association and the International Committee has been 
such, and always will be such, that they are just a part of the 
family, and are not even visitors here to-night. We look upon 
them as brothers who have come home. But there are with us 
to-night others who have come across the sea, and yet are loyal to 
the same flag that waves over us here. We are glad to welcome 
these brethren from the old land that have journeyed so far to see 
how the child of the Mother Country has gotten on in these fifty 
years. 

“ But beyond the bounds even of the British Empire, which we are 
so proud to think extends so far, we are honoured by the presence 
of those from other parts of the world—for this is now a world wide 
brotherhood, and whenever one member rejoices, all the members 
throughout the world-rejoice. ; 

“And then our younger brother is up here. Boston, who came 
so near being our twin, and yet whom we are so proud to feel is just 


47 


a little younger than we are—Boston has come here to see if the 
elder brother has departed from the faith once delivered to the 
saints. And London is here, the home of the parent association, 
and we are proud that we are honoured with a visit from the mother 
association of the world. London comes over to do honour to this 
child that was born fifty years ago. But there is yet higher 
honour for us to-night, for, sitting on the right of the line is the son 
of the honoured founder of the Association. I am glad I am a 
Williams. We are proud to-night that Mr. Howard Williams has 
come here as a representative of his father, and is to unveil for us 
on Monday the tablet that commemorates fiity years of association 
work. .Then again on the other end of the line is the son of 
the chairman of the first meeting when this association was formed, 
Mr. Alfred E. Marling, from New York City,—two honoured sons 
of two honoured fathers. 

“We welcome you all here to-night. While I am here as Presi- 
dent of the Association to present not only my own welcome, but 
that of the Board of Directors, there is another welcome that is not 
heard in this hall, and yet it is deeper than any other that can 
be given, and it comes to you from the thousands of young men 
who have come in contact with this Association, and through that 
contact have had their lives led to higher and better things. We are 
proud to think that in all these years hundreds and thousands of 
men have had their lives lifted up from selfishness and sin to the 
praise of God, who created them, and it is their gratitude and wel- 
come that is extended to-night as we are gathered here.” 


Mr. D. A. Bunce, the General Secretary, then presented 
the Historical Sketch of the Association, which had been 
prepared, reading extracts and making comments thereon. 
As this sketch has been published copies may be obtained at 
the Association. After singing the hymn, * Oh, for a thou- 
sand tongues to sing,” greetings were received as follows :— 


Greetings from the Ministerial Association. 


Rev. James Fleck, on behalf of the Ministerial Association, 
presented the following resolution, adopted by the Ministerial 
Association of the city of Montreal, at the meeting held on 
Thursday, 6th June :— 


“ Whereas, some three thousand delegates, including prominent 
Christian workers from all parts of the world, are gathering for 
the celebration, in the City of Boston, of the Fiftieth Anniversary of 
the inception of Young Men’s Christian Associations on chis conti- 
nent, and 

“Whereas, Montreal has the honour of being the first city in 
which this organization for the saving and developing of young iren 
was formed, and 

“Whereas, a preliminary celebration of this Jubilee is to be held 
in this city from the eighth to the tenth of June, be it hereby 

“Resolved, That the Protestant Ministers of Montreal, in special 


48 


meeting assembled, record their gratitude to God for the birth of 
this beneficent agency, for its enormous growth during the half 
century of its existence, and for the great service it has rendered in 
the making of Christian men, and’ it is further 

“ Resolved, That we recognize in the Association not a rival sect, 
nor a substitute for the Church of Christ, but an institute that supple- 
ments the work of all the churches in providing Christian companion- 
ship for our young men, with admirable facilities for their physical, 
mental, and spiritual improvement. 

“We commend the Association to the blessinz of God, to the 
generous support of all good people, and to the confidence of our 
young men, 

“On behalf of the Ministerial Association of Montreal.” 

“James Fleck.” 


Greetings from the International Committee. 


Dr. Lucren C. WARNER, of New York, Chairman of the 
International Committee, said :— 

“Tt gives me great pleasure to 
bring to the Montreal Association 
the greetings of the International 
Committee. I feel conscious of that 
fellowship which has been mention- 
ed by the President, and I have 
such a homelike feeling in Mont- 
real that I hardly knew whether 
those present are Americans and I 
am a Canadian, or whether they are 
Canadians and I am a Yankee. On 
looking back over the fifty years of 
the Association’s life in this coun- 
try, I can only say—What has 
God wrought. Fifty years ago 
our country was just entering upon 
the most marked material prosper- 
ity that had ever blessed any land 
in the world. Our vacant land was 
being filled up, our hamlets changed 
to villages, our villages to cities 
and our cities to great metropolitan 
cities, and wifh these changes and developments came new tempta- 
tions to the young men and new trials to the Church. But it was 
divinely appointed that at this point there should be developed the 
Young Men’s Christian Association, to get hold of these young men 
in our cities and hold them for Christ and for the Church. And 
the work has developed all along the line. Its educational system, 
its college branches and railroad branches, fill a want that nothing 
else could fill, and in this development Canada and the United States 
have worked together. 

“It is a source of great pleasure and gratification to us that we 
have as the vice-chairman of the International Committee, the son 
of the man who presided at the first meeting in Montreal for the 
establishment of the work on this continent. 


49 
Greetings from the Provincial Committee. 


Mr. Joun PENMAN, of Paris, Ont., Chairman of the Provin- 
cial Committee, said :— 


“TY have come to bring the greetings from the Associations 
throughout the Dominion, stretching from Cape Breton on the 
Atlantic coast to Vancouver on the Pacific, and to join in thanks 
and praise to God for the past. We are astonished when we look 
around and see the advancement the Association movement has 
made in the last fifty years, particularly the latter half of that period. 
When the Association was started and the earlier ones formed, it 
was simply a banding together of young men for Christian service. 
But to-day it is astonishing to see the all-round work for the body, for 
the mind, and for the spirit which was being done. Then there is 
the railway branch, the college branch, and the military camps. All 
these are the results of the work of the brave men who had had 
the courage to found the Association fifty years ago. Then there 
was the work for boys, and this was one of the most important 
works in the future. In the past it had only been possible to reach 
the larger cities, but the Associations to-day were stretching out 
their hands to help those in smaller places, and organizations were 
springing up in towns and villages which would produce great re- 
sults in the future. May God's richest blessing rest on the Montreal 
Association, and all other Associations, and may the secretaries and 
members take as their motto—* Whatever thy hand findeth to do, do 
it with thy might.” 


Mr. ALFRED E. Martine, of New York city :— 


“T do not know whether I should speak as a New Yorker, or as 
a son of my father, or a Canadian. born in Toronto. But which- 
ever one of the three, I am very glad to be in Montreal, and wish 
my father could have been here as well. I feel sure that my father 
and those who have gone before, would look down in congratulation 
and satisfaction upon the work which they had started fifty years 
ago, and which had continued so magnificently up to the present 
moment. 

“In these Jubilee proceedings we should not dwell too much on 
the past, marvellous as it had been. We cannot live on our past, 
and the present is but the stepping stone to the future. President 
Styker, of Hamilton College, says of the man who speaks constantly 
of his ancestors that you can be well assured the best of him is 
underground. I pray for God’s richest blessing upon the future of 
this great work, and hope we may all be worthy of the heritage 
which has been bequeathed to us.” 


50 
Greetings from the English Nationa! Council. 


Mr. W. H. Mitts, of London, England, Secretary of the 
English National Council, said :— 

“T would like to say in one brief 
word as to how deep has been 
the thankfulness with which we 
had heard from time to time of 
the progress of the work of the 
Association in Montreal and 
throughout Canada, and it is 
this good work which has 
brought so large a number of 
delegates from across the At- 
lantic to see it. After hearing 
the excellent report presented 
by Mr. Budge, all I can say 
would be summed up in four 
words, ‘Well done, go on.’ 
Lord Kinnaird will present the 
congratulations of the National 
Council, with an address for 
your acceptance.” 


Lorp Kinnatrp, of London, England, said :— 


“An honour has been given 
me as one of the Vice-Presi- 
dents of the National Council, 
in asking me to hand over an 
address to the Montreal Asso- 
ciation. It has required great 
force of will to keep Sir George 
Williams, our honoured and 
revered President, from  dis- 
obeying any order that any | 
friend or any doctor could give 
him. The address which I have 
been asked to present contains 
amongst its signers many well- 
known names, and one is very 
well-known and very much loved 
in Canada and many parts of 
the world; I refer to Lord 
Aberdeen, who, with his good 
wife, has done so much good 
and are so well known in 
Christian work. 

“We have a great deal to thank God for, but the work of the 
Association is only beginning. It seems to be growing greater 
all the time, and the more work done, the more there seems to be 
done. To-day there are three hundred millions of our fellow subjects 
who are waiting for the message to be sent to them in India, and 
it is our duty to heed the call. 


dl 


“The Associations on the other side have learned many lessons 
from those on this side, and they are learning lessons on_ this 
occasion. I am glad of the opportunity of seeing what a building 
should be for the benefit of young men. We will go back having 
seen what Christian liberality can do, and I hope we shall profit by 
the lesson.” 

The address was then presented and received on behalf of the 
Asscciation by Mr. John Penman, Chairman of the Provincial 
Committee. 


ADDRESS OF ENGLISH NATIONAL COUNCIL, 


The President, Vice-Presidents, and Council of the English 
National Union, to the Delegates and Representatives of the 
Young Men’s Christian Associations of the Dominion of 


Canada, Montreal, 1901. 
“Esteemed and Dear Brethren,— 

“The occasion of your assem- 
bling to commemorate the Jubilee 
of the Founding of the Montreal 
Young Men’s Christian Association 
presents an opportunity, of which 
we gladly avail ourselves, to convey 
to you, and, through you, to the 
entire membership of your Associa- 
tions, the heartiest greetings of As- 
sociations in the Mother Country. 
We unite with the other organized 
unions of Associations throughout 
the Empire, in congratulating you 
upon the good work accomplished 
during the past fifty years in all the 
more populous centres of the Do- 
minion; while we recognize with 
deep thankfulness the rich and mani- 
fold blessings which God has graci- 
ously bestowed upon your labors. 

“Fathers and mothers in the Home Land greatly appreciate your 
loving care for their sons, who in such large numbers come to reside 
in your country, and who, but for the cordial welcome extended to 
them by your Associations, would be exposed to grave peril and 
temptation. 

“ Formed upon the best models, your Associations have derived 
invaluable stimulus and support from their incorporation in the 
North American Federation; and we esteem it highly advantageous 
to the Home Associations, also, to be thereby brought into more 
intimate contact with the work for young men carried on with such 
conspicuous success throughout your entire Continent. 

“Increased facilities of communication, and the augrientation of 
business relations between different portions of the Enipire, have 
tended to knit more closely the ties of kindred and nationality; and 
our Home Associations count it a great privilege io be able row, 


52 


under the auspices of the British and Colonial Union, to welcome 
Delegates from the Associations of the Dominion, as well as from 
those of other Colonies and Dependencies, at the annual British 
Conferences, as well as at meetings of their Representative Councils. 
The World Tour of Mr. and Mrs. Oatts, undertaken at the instance 
of the English Council in the interests of Colonial work, expresses 
the great value we attach to the opportunities thus afforded for pro- 
moting fuller intercourse with your Associations, and thereby 
strengthening the bonds of sympathy and mutual interest which link 
the whole of the Associations together in a common aim and service. 

“We greatly rejoice in the signal honour already placed upon your 
labours, and pray that, in the new era upon which you are entering, 
God will give you to experience in even richer abundance the tokens 
of His favour and goodness—that He will “multiply your seed sown, 
increase the fruits of your righteousness,” and “‘stablish you in every 
good word and work.” 


Signed on behalf of the Council, 
GEORGE WILLIAMS, Kt., President. 


And by the following Vice-Presidents and Members:— 


Kinnaird, John H. Kennaway, Bart. 
‘Overtoun. (President Church Missionary 
Aberdeen. Society). 
Howard Williams. Arthur Backhouse. 
John H. Gladstone, F.R.S. Jas. E. Vanner. 
Thos. Fowell Buxton, Bart., John Charles Newsom. 

G.C.M.G. Wm. H. Stephenson, Kt., J.P., D.L. 
Jos. Storrs Fry. Robert Pullar, Kt. 
Jas. Fleming, (Canon of York). H. E. Fox, (Hon. Sec. Church 
M. H. Hodder. Missionary Society). 


William Sinclair (Archdeacon of J. E. W. Wakefield. 
London and Canon of St. C. Stansfield Wilson. 


Paul's). Doulas Fox, Kt. 
Martin J. Sutton. William McCall. 
T. F. Victor Buxton, D.L. W. H. Seagram. 
S. Hope Morley. .Caleb R. Kemp. 
George Cadbury. J..Charlton Parr 11. 
Edward M. Denny. T. Cheney Grafit, D.L. 
W. T. Crossley. James Cundy. 
Samuel Smith, M.P. Robert Heath. 
John Cory, D.L Albert A. Head. 
Chas. J. Procter. J. K. Starley. 
C. Albert Hingston, Herbert Philips. 
John Voce Moore, F. F. Belsey. 
(Ex-Lord Mayor of London). William Walker. 
George White, M.P. John G. R. Porter, (Chairman 
Alexr. Peckover, LL.D. Trish Union of Y.M.C.A.’s.) 
Hy. H. Bemrose. R. Cope Morgan. 
George S. Barrett, D.D. Wm. B. Mason. 
(Ex-Chairman Congregational W,. A. Baker. ® 
Union). W. H. Mills, 


(Sec. National Council). 


53 


Greetings from the World’s Committee. 


Mr. Cuar_tes Fermaup, of Geneva, Switzerland, General 
Secretary of the World’s Committee, said -— 


“In the twenty-two years 
since I have visited Montreal, 
great developments have taken 
place in the Young Men’s Chris- 
tian Association. I bring you 
the greetings of the Worl1's 
Committee, and the wish they 
send to the Montreal Associa- 
tion, and the Associations 
throughout the Dominion of 
Canada is that ‘they should 
be separated men of might, men 
fit for the battle, and for the 
King, men whose faces were 
like the faces of lions,’ or as 
our translation says, ‘whose 
courage was like the courage of 
lions, and as swift as the roe on 
the mountains. When I say I 
bring you the greetings of the 
World’s Committee, I mean the 
greetings of the Associations all 
over the world, and not only of the committee at Geneva. All over 
the world the eyes of the Young Men’s Christian Associations are 
centred on this Jubilee celebration. What is wanted in Association 
work to-day is young men who know Christ for their Saviour, and 
knowing him well, will go out to the people with a great courage, 
men who are ready to obey and go wherever they are needed. The 
work in Montreal must be in good hands, or it would not have 
prospered and been blessed the way it has.” 


Greetings from Boston. 


Mr. GeorGeE A. MIner, of Boston, said :-— 


“T have come with a heart full of greetings from the Boston 
Association, the twin brother as it had been called, and I have 
brought their warmest greetings to the Montreal Association on the 
occasion of your Jubilee Celebration. I do this with greater pleasure 
because I am a Canadian. I feel that I am both a pretty good 
Canadian and a good American, but there is one thing I am more 
proud of, and that is to have been a charter member of the Boston 
Young Men’s Christian Association. For four years I was President, 
and during that period the beautiful building in which we are at 
present was erected. I have been delegated by the friends in Bos- 
ton to give a hearty invitation to all to come to their homes and 
hearts during the next week, and I know that those who are coming 
to the Jubilee Celebration of the Associations will receiye great 
benefit.” 


Greetings from the 
Parent Association, 


At this point the Chair- 
man introduced Mr. J. H. Put- 
terill, Secretary of the Central 
Young Men’s Christian Asso- 
ciation of London, England, 
who read an illuminated ad- 
dress prepared by the parent 
Association, the text of which 


appears on opposite page. 


Mr. Howarp WIttiams, son of Sir George -Williams, in 
making the presentation made the following remarks :— 


“Mr. Chairman, in asking : 
you to accept for the Association 
this expression of our congratula- 
tions and good wishes, may I re- 
quest you to allow this to be hung 
up in one of your beautiful rooms, 
so that it may be a memorial to all 
time of the good feeling existing 
detween the oldest Associations in 
the Old World and in the New. 
We inthe Old Country have much 
to thank you for and I am glad 
of this opportunity of expressing 
our appreciation of the way you 
have looked after our boys when 
they have come across the ocean. 
Many a father in the Old Country 
has thanked God for this Associa- 
tion when his boy was coming to 
Canada, and many a mother has 
had her tears dried when she has been saying good-bye to her boy, 
and her tears turned to smiles when she remembered that letter in 
his pocket to Mr. Budge. We have come across the Atlantic to 
join you in celebrating this Jubilee. We come as_ brothers to 
brothers, with our hearts full of love and thankfulness for what has 
been done, and we believe in looking in your faces and shaking 
hands with the members of the Association, as we shall during the 
next two or three days, we shall increase our zeal for the work, and 
go home with a fresh inspiration to do better service than in the ® 
past in our own Associations.” 


Beloved Brethren and Fellow Workers, oe 
A this, the occasion of the Celebration of the Jubilee of | the 
lormation of your Association, we desire to tender you an. 
ression of our hearty congratulations on the comp! ee 
n ity Years’ work in the inferesis-of young me! 
"Fis the Parent Association, we rejoiced in the formation of the 


a and: ses anes i ~ 
nplis| wellare of youn 
alls tor the expression of deep $ 
the abundant less which Be has 


ee many and — 
employed in see lo promote | 
nd Physical Welfare of paces or 


ice on record our high appreciation 


at 
indness and attention) 

isn 19 many young men 
on their entrance upon life in the Domini 


bus. weer bonds of rime 


jation may with 
“and its more — 


head hi €¢: 


56 
Montreal’s Reply to these Greetings, 


Mr. H. B. Ames, on behalf of the Montreal Association, 
replied to the greetings :— 


“Mr. Chairman: I think you will all admit that upon my shoul- 
ders has fallen the most difficult task of the evening. I am not to 
address the audience, I am to address the platform, and I am to 
endeavour in some way to express the appreciation that the Montreal 
Association feels at the presence of these friends of ours with u: 
to-night, and with the words of cordial greeting that have fallen from 
their lips. 


“We have, I think, before us to-night, an opportunity which will 
probably never be equalled in the lives of any of us, although the 
majority of those in this room are yet young men. We have the 
opportunity to see, and to listen to men whose names are deeply 
graven in the history of the Young Men’s Christian Association. 
Never, do I believe, shall we have an opportunity of seeing upon a 
platiorm in the city of Montreal men who represent every epoch of 
Association history, as do those who are with us to-night. We are 
justly proud of ourselves because we realize that the seven thousand 
Associations scattered throughout the world, and nearly half a 
million members scattered throughout the globe all have their eyes 
turned to the Montreal Association. We realize, that for this night 
at least, we are the centre of the Association universe, and it is 
indeed grateful that we are, when from our own city and from each 
concentric ring about our city on and on to the furthest limits of the 
world, come these words of greeting, congratulation, sympathy and 
good cheer. 


“ First, it is very gratifying that we should be appreciated here in 
our own city by those men who are undoubtedly the best cipable of 
judging the value of Christian service, namely, our own Christian 
pastors. That these gentlemen should have gathered in special as- - 
sembly, and should have passed resolutions so kindly minded, and 
should have deputed one whom we so highly respect to come and 
present this resolution, causes us feelings of the deepest joy, and I 
assure Mr. Fleck we will treasure in the archives of the Association 
for many years the document he has been kind enough to deposit 
with us. 


* And again, for all of us who are Canadians, and it looks to-night 
as though nearly all good men were Canadians,—but all of us who 
are Canadians were glad to hear the words of cheer that came to us 
from the honoured Chairman of the Provincial Committee. We have 
a realizing sense that so long as men of that stamp and that sound 
judgment, and breadth of idea, and Christian fortitude, which Mr. 
Penman has, are in control of our provincial work, we shall ever 
advance abreast of the times. 


“And then, too, from our twin brother, over whom, you know, we 
have always claimed a slight advantage, in point of antiquity, and over 
whom we occasionally press that advantage, from the friends in 
Boston we too are glad to hear such welcome words. We are glad 


57 


they should come here to assist in this celebration. We will 
endeavour to go in large numbers to assist them in their subsequent 
celebration. 


“Tt is pleasant to feel, too, that we are part of a great whole, and 
that this boundary line which has been referred to by Dr. Warner 
to-night, which he expresses the wish may some day be abolished, 
which wish we perhaps are not quite so willing to admit—it is 
gratifying to feel that we are part of one great whole, and this imagin- 
ary line which separates us does not separate us in Christian hopes 
and aspirations. And I think we cannot be too grateful for what 
the International Committee is doing for this, and for the other 
Canadian Associations. Think what it means to have the Interna- 
tional Committee to fall back on for guidance and help, and counsel, 
and we appreciate it highly that their representative should be here 
to-night to extend to us the right hand of fellowship. 


“And still the circle broadens and we cross the ocean, and our 
thoughts rest upon the old land. We think of the old city wherein 
was founded this Association, and turn our eyes to the picture of the 
founder facing us, enveloped in the flags of several nations. We feel 
that to have upon our platform to-night those who represent the 
names of Williams and Marling, two names which stand for first 
principles, both in the London and Montreal Association, is a great 
honour, and we will indeed cherish this beautiful illuminated address 
that has been given us. This resolution shall be hung where it may 
be seen in our Association, where those of us who are here to-night 
may grow familiar with its spirit and thought, and where those of us 
as we grow older and learn to love it, shall pass it on to those who 
come after us, and tell them to cherish it as long as the Association 
stands in Montreal. 


“And then the International representative from Geneva comes 
to us with warm heart and kind words, and assures us that we are 
remembered also on the Continent of Europe, that we form a part 
of a still larger circle, that we.are doing similar work and have similar 
aspirations, and similar ideals with these young men who speak many 
languages in Continental Europe. It is to us who are in the thick 
of the fight, to us who are still young men, an inspiration and help 
to know that we form part of one great institution serving one 
common Master, ever ready to lend a helping hand the one to the 
other, ever lifting up our hearts in prayer to one common God. 


“In conclusion let me thank you one and all on behalf of this 
gathering, on behalf of those whom they represent, our two thousand 
and odd members, on behalf of all the Association members of the 
Dominion of Canada, who unite in spirit with us to-night, let me 
thank you for your presence and for the words of friendly greeting 
you have extended to us.” 


The meeting closed with the hymn, “ Ye servants of God 
your Master proclaim.” 


58 


On Sunday morning at 9.30 the visit- 
ing delegates and members of the Associa- 
tion met in Association Hall for a praise 
and thanksgiving meeting at which Mr. 
Ricuarp C. Morse, General Secretary of 
the International Committee presided. 

At the same hour a meeting for boys 
was held in the lower lecture hall by the 
Junior Executive Committee at which 
addresses were delivered by Mr. Howard 
Williams, of London, England, Mr. C. 
B. Willis, of Milwaukee, and Mr. Chas. 
Fermaud, of Geneva, Switzerland. 

On Sunday afternoon at 3.45 o’clock a public meeting was 
held in St. James Methodist Church, at which Mr. C. T. 
Williams, President of the Association, was in the chair. The 
large edifice was filled with a thoroughly representative audi- 
ence. The meeting opened with * All hail the power of 
Jesus’ name,” after which the Rev. G. Osborne Troop led in 
prayer, and the Rey. Dr. McWilliams read the Scriptures. 
Addresses were then delivered as follows :— 


Lorp KINNAIRD said :— 


“T have been asked to attend, not as an orator, but as a plain 
business man, to bring the most hearty congratulations and good 
wishes from the other side. We meet at a memorable time in our 
Empire’s history, because we have lost one under whose flag and 
under whose revered name we have labored, and whose work and 
life we all admired, and who had shown her appreciation of the work 
of the Young Men’s Christian Association on the occasion of the 
Jubilee some years ago, when all the delegates were invited to Wind- 
sor Castle and were treated right royally. Times were also important 
in our Empire’s history during the last eighteen months, and I have 
found the same sentiment here in regard to the war as was to be 
found at home, and many a young life had been laid down in the 
service of the Empire, not only from the Mother Land, but also from 
Canada and all our other colonies. 

“ During the last fifty years great changes have taken place, and 
from the history of the Association in Montreal which had been given 
by Mr. Budge, one could see the changes that had taken place here 
during that time. Sir George Williams himself fifty years ago could 
never have thought of the world-wide influence of the Associations of 
to-day, though he had more faith than most men, and to-day the 
motto which Sir George Williams and his associates took to them- 
selves was still being carried out ‘Young men for Jesus Christ, and 
Christ for young men.’ ” 

“The work of to-day could only be successfully carried on by a 
consecrated membership, a consecrated committee force, a cohsecrat- 
ed secretary, and all these essentials would have to work together 
in order that the work might be successfully done. But even when 


59 


our local work was well done our duty was not wholly accomplished, 
for greater work lay still before us. In India there were three 
hundred millions of young men waiting to receive the gospel, whilst 
here we had only half a million, and as half a million was to three 
hundred millions so our responsibilities were greater in non-Christian 
India. We have lately seen what the British Empire can do if a 
certain part of it is in danger. From every quarter of the globe help 
came, and that quickly, and now, when the call was being made for 
help in Christ’s kingdom, help should come just as quickly. <A 
British army officer had been asked how long it would take the 
British Army to take the Queen’s proclamation all over the world, 
and he had worked out what two hundred thousand men could do, 
and he said he would undertake to do the work in from 15 to 18 
months. The Church has for the last twenty centuries been trying 
to take Christ’s proclamation around the world, and has not finished 
its work yet. It was time we were up and doing, realizing the 
responsibility God has placed upon us. I trust all present will join 
in the work of winning the young men of this world for Jesus Christ.” 


Mr. W. M. Oarts, of Glasgow, said :— 


“One is too likely to 
take it for granted in such 
an audience that everyone 
present knows all about the 
work of the Young Men’s 
Christian Association, but I 
am going to appeal to them 
on its behalf, and hope my 
appeal will not be in vain. 
Fifty-seven years ago in 
George Williams’ office in 
London, 13 young men 
githered together and start- 
ed the London Young 
Men’s Christian Associa- 
tion, and from that small 
beginning there has spread 
this world-wide organiza- 
tion, with over seven thou- 
sand. I have been travel- 
ling some eighteen months 
and have gone 42,000 miles, all the time within sight of the British 
flag, and I have seen much during this journey of the work of the 
Young Men’s Christian Association. I have seen the Association 
away up in the snows of Lapland, away down in the Sunny South of 
Italy. I have visited the Association in Cairo where 27 young men 
are gathered together to worship God, and have fellowship and 
communion together. I have gone up to the Holy City, and as I 
passed through the Jaffa Gate met the well-known letters Y. M; C. A. 
in the city of the Great King. Then we went to the city of Nazareth 
where Christ was born, and we were helpful in establishing a Young 
Men’s Christian Association there, and Mrs. Oatts had assisted to 
establish a branch of the Youfig Women’s Christian Association, and 
so the good work was going on, and spreading. The work the Young 
Men’s Christian Associations was doing could be well illustrated by 


. 


60 


giving an instance which came to my knowledge. A young man left 
Glasgow for Montreal, and took with him a letter of introduction to 
Mr. Budge. He was given a hearty welcome, and was introduced to 
and became friends with the Christian young men there, and work was 
found for him. He had not been a month in Montreal before he 
sickened, and was taken to the hospital. The only ones coming to 
see him during the hours of his sickness were the members of the 
Young Men’s Christian Association. There he lay, three thousand 
miles away from home, and there he lingered and died. Did the 
Association leave him even then? No, they brought the remains of 
that young man down to their rooms, had a religious service over his 
remains, and followed his body to its last resting place. What a 
solace this was to his friends on the other side, to know he had not 
died friendless and alone. This was the work of the Young Men’s 
Christian Association, and what was being done all over the world. 

“Tn most worldly affairs one could see immense enthusiasm 
displayed. In Scotland I have seen a great many football matches, 
some of them attended by as many as 70,000 people, and what enthu- 
siasm was created. In New York Mr. Morse had taken me to see 
a baseball game. There had been some twenty of thirty thousand 
people there, and what enthusiasm there was. How every good play 
was cheered to the echo. There was plenty of enthusiasm for the 
things of this world, and we want that enthusiasm won over to the 
side of Christ. Christ Himself had that enthusiasm, or He could 
never have set his face to go up to Jerusalem that He might suffer 
and die for a lost world. Think of the enthusiasm of the Apostle 
Paul, “‘ This one thing I do,” and we want the young men of to-day 
not to have one whit less enthusiasm, but_to bring that enthusiasm 
and lay it upon the altar for the service to Jesus Christ. 

“Young manhood is a time of fierce temptation and is a great 
crisis in the lives of all young men. The open door of the Young 
Men’s Christian Association, the warm and loving grasp of the 
Secretary of the Association, was a thing to help a young man in 
that crisis, and I call upon those present to help on this work in the 
name of our risen Saviour.” 


THE ACHIEVEMENTS AND POSSIBILITIES OF THE 
ASSOCIATION MOVEMENT OF NORTH AMERICA. 


Mr. Joun R. Mort, of New York :— 


“Your President has introduced me 
as the prophet of the Young Men’s 
Christian Association, but before begin- 
ning to prophesy let me dwell a little 
on history. 

“The achievements of the Young 
Men’s Christian Association of North 
America have been of such extent, 
power, and significance, as to convince 
even the skeptical that Almighty God 
is in this work. The fact that the 
number of Associations of young men 
banded together in the name of our 
risen Lord, has increased from two in 
1851 to fifteen hundred at the present 

“time, is in itself an achievement which 


61 


should arrest attention. The fact that in those days there were less 
than one hundred young men banded together for the specific 
purpose of reaching their fellows, whereas to-day we have the vast 
army of 255,000 young men in these two sister countries alone, who 
have associated their efforts for the extension of God’s kingdom 
among young men, also demonstrates the reality of the work of God 
among young men of our time. Even as recently as 1869 there was 
only one building on the entire continent devoted to this work, 
whereas to-day we have not far from four hundred of these buildings, 
worth over twenty-five millions of dollars; and this fact has led many 
a man to enquire into the causes of the development of this movement 
and to pledge to it his allegiance. 

“The fact that during the last fifty years a new calling or profes- 
sion has been created, in the ranks of which to-day we find not less 
than fifteen hundred young men —a _ profession possessing such 
possibilities that it presents powerful claims to the strongest young 
men of the colleges and universities of our day, has been in turn the 
means of convincing many that here is a great work to do, and that 
it is being increasingly well done. 

“TI do not pause to enlarge upon such facts because that simply 
calls attention to means. It signifies not so much that there are a 
quarter of a million young men banded together in North America 
for this purpose, that we have over twenty-five millions worth of 
property, that there are fifteen hundred trained leaders. These are 
simply means to large ends, and before God, who calls us to give 
an account of the use of our talents, we have the right to expect that 
the use of these means would lead to large and convincing achieye- 
ments, and we have not been disappointed in our expectation. 

‘Notice in rapid summary some of the great achievements which 
have been wrought within the half century, as a result of this inspired 
movement. In the first place, the Young Men’s Christian Associa- 
tion has been the first great movement of laymen in the Christian 
Church. It has inaugurated, stimulated, and led the varied lay forces, 
which are to-day so prominent, and increasing in the different 
branches of the all-embracing Church of Jesus Christ. This 
movement was founded by a layman—God bless him richly to-day— 
it has been developed by laymen, and its distinguishing characteristic 
is that it is a lay movement. It should be emphasized, however, 
that it is working in harmony with and under the valuable suggestion 
of the clerical leaders of all sections of the Church of God. 

“This movement has placed before the world, and done much to 
realize the true ideal of young manhood—a symmetrical young 
manhood, a Christ-like young manhood. It seeks so to develop the 
body that it will endure the strain of this intense age of competition. 
Moreover, it emphasises the importance of the mind receiving the 
higher furnishing and finishing, the enriching and calling out of the 
social nature, and the salvation of the soul—the sending of the young 
man into the world to stand four-square to every wind that blows. 

“We notice, in reviewing the past fifty years, that the Young 
Men’s Christian Association has developed such an organization and 
agencies as have enabled it in a great measure to become all things 
unto all classes of young men. It has applied with splendid results 
this scriptural principle. It has involved the setting of a class of 
young men to work for the young men of that particular class; as, 


62 


for instance, in the college work, in the railroad work, the army work, 
the naval work, and the work among all the varied classes of our 
continent. 

The Young Men’s Christian Association in these fifty years has 
done much to break down barriers between man and man, and to fuse 
together the different classes in society. Take the railroad work, 
for example. What other organization to-day is bringing together 
the railroad manager and the lowest employee on a common platform, 
leading them to understand the point of view of one another, and to 
appreciate the spirit of one another, and to work for common ends? 
Take the College Associations. Not long since I visited a college on 
this continent where the son of one of the richest men on this side of 
the Atlantic was a student. I found that young man working on the 
sane committee with other young men who were earning their way 
through college by waiting on tables. These men worked together 
with perfect understanding and sympathy, and they will continue to 
appreciate each other, and as a result, will help to work out a larger 
and more successful solution of the social problems of our day. 

“The Association movement of North America has carried 
forward on behalf of young men an evangelistic campaign of such 
mighty sweep and power that an increasing number of young men 
have been ushered into the kingdom of our Lord and Saviour Jesus 
Christ. This is what the movement was called into being for, and 
when it ceases to stand for this, let it disband. It was the impulse 
inspired of God in the mind of our honoured founder. It has been 
the crowning glory of the Young Men’s Christian Association. The 
imagination staggers to-day as it tries to grasp the vast number of 
young men whose robes have been washed in the blood of the Lamb 
as a result of the beneficent work of these societies. 

“The Associations have afforded a striking demonstration of the 
reality of the great spiritual forces of the world, and this has been a 
service of great significance in an age, and on a continent in which 
the forces of materialism are so. strong, and where they are so increas- 
ing. I refer to such great spiritual realities as the living Christ, not 
one dead away back there centuries ago, but one living, and saving, 
and transforming the lives of tempted and doubting young men of 
to-day; the dynamic and quickening influence of the Word of God; 
the mountain-removing power of prayer, and the transforming 
influence of the Spirit of God working through organization and 
consecrated personal effort. These great forces have been made more 
real and commanding and felt, as a result of the work of these 
societies. 

“While the Associations have been doing the regular work for 
which they were called into being, they have, both directly and 
indirectly, by example given rise to other great spiritual movements. 
I need only give their names. Reasons could be given why each one of 
these is included were it necessary. Note the list : The Evangelical 
Alliance; the Young Women’s Christian Association ; the Young 
People’s Society of Christian Endeavour, which in turn did so much 
to suggest the great denominational movements, and in all of these 
we find some six millions of young people in these two countries 
alone; the Inter-Seminary Missionary Alliance of Students; the 


Student Volunteer Movement for Foreign Missions; the World’s 


Student Christian Federation. I might speak also of the evangelistic 


63 


movement of the last generation led by Mr. Moody, who gave testi- 
mony that the Young Men’s Christian Association had given him this 
impulse and much of his training. The mere catalogue of these great 
movements is impressive. 

“The mill-streams that move the great machinery of the world 
rise in solitary places. And when we see such vast, varied and benefi- 
cent activities we believe that away back there somewhere in the 
secret place a consecrated heart opened, Almighty God spoke His 
message and it was heard and obeyed. 

“The Young Men’s Christian Association movement of North 
America, in league with our brothers of the British Isles, have trans- 
planted the Association idea to the great non-Christian countries of 
the world. We have gone out there, and there was abundant need 
of our going. Our object has been to make the universities and the 
city communities strongholds and propagating centres of pure and 
aggressive Christianity. In response to the call of the missionaries 
of the non-Christian countries, to place at their disposal this agency 
so useful at home, there where it is so much more needed. There 
comes back to memory to-day the awful need of the young men of 
the unevangelized world as I have had opportunity to see it. At 
times it comes back to haunt me in the watches of the night. If my 
life be spared, I hope a few months hence to put my life once more 
alongside the fiercely-tempted young men of India, of China and of 
Japan, to help them in their battles. 

“ Another service, which I simply touch, although very significant, 
is that the Young Men’s Christian Associations have done much to 
emphasize and to realize true Christian unity. They have afforded a 
splendid demonstration of the fact that there is one body and one 
spirit, even as ye were also called in one hope of your calling, one 
Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and father of all who is over 
all, and through all, and in all. Only as we put our lives by the life 
of Christ when He offered the prayer that we all might be one, do we 
begin to realize what this service means. 

“And now let me call attention to some regions beyond, and as 
I do so let us ask ourselves the question: If this movement with such 
small and humble beginnings, has resulted in such wonderful achieve- 
ments, what may we not expect from God during the next fifty years? 

“T would say the first region beyond is the development of this 
work on the lines which have already been projected. We have only 
touched the fringe of the possibilities of this movement in any one 
department. It matters not what department you take. Do you 
take railroad work? Should we be satisfied with touching only forty- 
five thousand out of one million railroad men in the United States 
and Canada ? Talk about students: Should we be satisfied with 
having gathered within our fold only thirty-five thousand students 
and professors of these countries out of over two hundred thousand? 
And so on through the different classes and the different phases of 
this work. You and I are going to live to see the day when in the 
educational classes of the Young Men’s Christian Associations there 
will be more young men than we have in the colleges of our conti- 
nent to-day. We are going to live to see the day when in every city 
of considerable importance, and in the smaller towns there will be 
facilities for the development of the body. We are going to live to 
see the day when the spiritual achievements of this work are going to 
put to shame the achievements which are behind us. 


64 


“A second region beyond is in the realm of extending the Associa- 
tion. We talk about University Extension to-day, and by that we 
mean taking the university to people who cannot go to the university. 
The development of the next fifty years is going to be, not so much 
what takes place in the Association building as what goes out from 
the Association building. We are going to take the Young Men’s 
Christian Association where the young men are. We are already 
beginning to do this in the factories, on the naval vessels, and in 
other places where young men are doing their work, and spending 
their leisure time. We are also going to emphasize organized and 
delegated personal work for making Christ known and felt where the 
young men are having their sports, and doing their work. In so doing 
we shall be imitating Christ. 

“ A third region beyond will be suggested by the expansion of the 
population of these two countries. I am within bounds when I 
predict to-day that within fifty years the population of the United 
States and Canada will more than double, and the larger extension is 
going to be in this Dominion, and for obvious reasons. The Young 
Men’s Christian Associations of the next fifty years must grapple, 
therefore, not only with fifteen million young men of to-day, but 
they must get ready to deal with thirty millions. And more than 
the welfare of thirty million young men is involved, because on this 
continent, providentially situated between the two great oceans, in this 
age of world-wide expansion, these two countries, together with the 
British Isles, are going to be looked upon increasingly as a great 
pare of operations for the world-wide extension of the kingdom of 

rist. 

“Another region beyond are the fifteen million boys of North 
America, whose number within a half-century will increase to thirty 
millions. The statesmen of our movement, and the leaders of it must 
begin to get ready for grappling with this great problem. It is never 
too soon to prepare to do a great work. And, by the way, this work 
for boys is the most hopeful and fruitful work before us. Why ? 
You save a young man and you are dealing with addition, but when 
you save a boy you deal with multiplication. 

“There is a region beyond upon which I do not trust myself to 
enlarge, and that is the innumerable multitude of young men of less 
favored lands in the non-Christian world. How many are there? 
Now less than two hundred millions of them. In Canada and the 
United States we have one secretary for every ten thousand young 
men; in those non-Christian nations we have only one to every ten 
millions. Is this a fair distribution? If Christ were here to-day to 
pass in judgment upon the distribution of the light bearers and the 
Christian leaders, would He be satisfied? Judging by His command, 
by His teachings, and by His example, He would call for a more 
wide-spread diffusion of the leaders of our work among the non-Chris- 
tian nations. This is the greatest work that has been given to the 
Young Men’s Christian Association of North America, and for other 
Protestant countries to do. To my brethren of the British Isles I 
do not need to appeal, nor to our brethren from Germany, Scandi- 
navia and other places. We understand each other, and hand in 
hand we are going to go forward in this movement and plant the 
Young Men’s Christian Association in every great metropolitan and 
student centre in the non-Christian world. 


65 


“The sixth region beyond is in the realm of a more aggressive 
wariare against the forces of evil. When I consider to-day the 
magnitude of the forces of evil on this continent, as I am obliged to 
see them, when I recognize the ingenuity and the enterprise of the 
leaders of these forces of evil, when I notice, with faint heart at times, 
the vindictiveness and the awiul cruelty of these forces of evil, I am 
led to believe that Christ would have us be inspired with more of that 
enthusiasm of which we have heard so eloquently from our brother 
from Scotland, (Mr. Oatts), this afternoon. Yes, more of that 
enthusiasm. Not long since I went back to my own 
town in the West, where I spent the larger part of my life, 
and I saw strong men take away a young man with whom I 
used to go to school before I went to college. They took him away 
to the asylum of mental deaths. Sin did it. I will fight it until I 
die. Why should we not fight it? Everything which has caused 
suffering and loss and sorrow, and shame, and death, is traceable to 
sin. I appeal therefore to the young men of Montreal and of the 
other Associations here represented, that we declare uncompromising 
and aggressive warfare against intemperance, against impurity, against 
dishonesty, against irreverence, against hypocrisy in all their forms. 

“Another region beyond is in the realm of a more vigorous and 
exhaustive evangelism among the young men. Although results of 
this kind have steadily increased in volume, we should not be satisfied 
with our attainments. Let us begin at once to lay such plans as will 
result in a far larger ingathering of young men into the Kingdom of 
Jesus Christ. One time when I had the privilege of conversing with 
our honoured founder Sir George Williams, I asked this question: 
“ Sir George, what was the uppermost thought in your mind, and that 
of your associates, when you were led to form this Association?” He 
said: “We had just one main thought, and that was to associate our 
efforts that we might more effectively bring to bear Christ upon the 
lives of young men.” If the one to whom God gave the initial 
impulse which called into being this movement, maintained that the 
evangelistic purpose should have right of way, we must not relegate 
it to the background. Rather let us give it a larger and more 
conspicuous place. Let anything else go rather than this. Let this 
be our consuming motive, the preaching of Christ thoroughly to all 
young men. ‘I have used the word ‘exhaustive evangelism,’ by which 
I mean preaching Christ so fully that the blood of the souls of young 
men will not rest upon our heads. 

“One of the largest unoccupied regions for us is in the realm of 
prayer. The largest talent which God has given to the Young 
Men’s Christian Association—and, by the way, the largest talent He 
has given to every Christian—is the power of prayer. What right 
have we to leave unappropriated and unapplied the mightiest force for 
the salvation of men and the energising of Christian movements. The 
Christian Church will not witness her largest triumphs until individual 
believers everywhere come to recognize more fully their priesthood 
unto God, and get into the secret places to live these great energies 
that move God, that move the world. Let us go to the secret place. 

“Yet another region beyond is in the realm of securing more 
young men to devote their lives to Christian service. We must in 
some way stop the decline in the number of strong young men enter- 
ing the Christian ministry. The Association can do this better than 


66 


any other organization with which I am familiar. We must have a 
great army of young men to go out to the non-Christian nations. I 
am looking into the faces of some young men whom God would call 
to this work, possibly to-day. Let us count it all joy that we may 
sprinkle with our lives many nations, if need be by martyrdom, that 
this gospel of Christ may be preached to every creature. Let those 
of us whom God does not call to the ministry or to the mission 
service, or the association secretaryship, resolve to make our lives 
count as laymen. What a mighty power in any community is the 
earnest and active Christian doctor, the Christian lawyer, the Chris- 
tian business man. Let us look upon the Association not only as a 
field but also and especially as a force to be wielded on behalf of the 
world’s evangelization and the establishment of the reign of Christ 
from the rivers unto the ends of the earth. 

“A word about the perils of the Association movement. I just 
mention them; pride; jealousies and divisions; leaning on the past; 
depending upon our wealth, equipment, organization and machinery; 
compromising the fundamental spiritual principles on which we rest; 
not putting first things first. I conceive these to be among our 
chief trials. Let us watch, and let him that thinketh he standeth 
take heed lest he fall. 

“What is the result of entering the regions beyond, which have 
been opened before us? The secret is the same as that which has 
made possible the achievements outlined—note it well—the uplifted 
Christ. ‘I, if I be lifted up, will draw all men unto me.’ Another 
element in the secret is yielding to the sway of the Spirit of God, for 
Christ said that greater works than He wrought should we do if we 
yielded to that sway. And if we would have the ever-enlarging results 
we must realize in experience the principle involved in the words of 
Christ—‘ Except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it 
abideth by itself alone but if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit.” 
The cultivation of a constant sense of vocation, that is, an ever-present 
realization that every man of us is called by God to promote this 
great work, will have very much to do with achieving the larger 
things. Responsibility in the last analysis is individual, untransfer- 
able and urgent. It is individual. God is going to judge each man 
of us by what he is and by what he does. We cannot pass this 
responsibility on to any other man. Our responsibility, let it be 
repeated, is urgent. ‘The work which centuries might have done 
must crowd the hour of setting sun.” “We must work the works of 
rape that sent me, while it is day: the night cometh when no man can 
work.’ ” 


UNVEILING THE TABLET. 


On Monday afternoon, June 10, at 3.30 o’clock, the Histori- 
cal Tablet which had been erected on the Gault Bros. Building 
on St. Helen Street was unveiled. A platform had been 
erected for invited guests of the Association, and a large 
number gathered in the street. Mr. C. T. Williams again 
presided. The thymn, “ How firm a Foundation,” was sung, 
after which Rev. Dr. McWilliams offered prayer. Mr. 


67 


Howard Williams, of London, England, was then introduced 
and spoke as follows:— 


“Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen: I consider it a high 
honour to be invited to take part in this memorial gathering to-day, 
and to help unveil the tablet to commemorate the introduction, or the 
formation of the Young Men’s Christian Association on the American 
continent. Your beautiful city enjoys the proud distinction of being 
the birthplace of the first Association in the New World, and it is a 
source of great satisfaction to all of us that the Association started 
here first, under the grand old flag we all love and honour. 

“In England, we have a society to mark the birthplace of our 
famous men; I do not know whether that society has a counterpart 
in this country, but I know of no better way to teach the rising gene- 
ration the great facts of national and social import than by placing a 
tablet in some conspicuous position where all who run may read. 

“Tt is impossible to recall the history of this Young Men’s Chris- 
tian Association without paying tribute to the memory of Her 
Gracious Majesty Queen Victoria, for it was one of the grand institu- 
tions (and their name was legion), inaugurated in her reign. Her 
warm sympathy for the young men of the Empire was an example of 
her devotion to the best interests of her people. The great Queen 
Mother showed special interest in the Young Men’s Christian Associa- 
tion on the occasion of our Jubilee in London a few years ago. She 
was truly a noble woman. She reigned in our hearts and helped make 
the Empire the envy, as she was the admiration, of the whole world. 
And while we mourn her loss, we thank God for the King, so well 
able to reign over us. His life has been spent in the midst of the 
people, sharing their happiness and prosperity, in ameliorating the 
condition of the lowly, and in doing what he has been able to do to 
comfort the sick and suffering. We in England owe him a debt of 
gratitude for the help he has given to the Association in the past, and 
we believe that should the occasion occur again when we require his 
help. we are bound to have it. 

“ Now, ladies and gentlemen, it is a little difficult to realize to-day 
the great change that has taken place in the conditions of service 
required by mercantile men fifty years ago. In those days the 
mercantile interests of our own country were paramount. The greed 
of money-making tempted the employer to show little consideration 
for the happiness, the safety or the health of the employee. Young 
men worked early and late, and had hardly any opportunity of 
improving their minds, or their bodies. Then came the formation of 
the Young Men’s Christian Association in London. Please under- 
stand me: I do not claim everything for the Association, but who 
could have foretold that a dozen young men working in a London 
warehouse would have formed an Association which, within half a 
century, would have girdled the world with seven thousand Associa- 
tions; would have numbered its members by hundreds of thousands, 
and owned property to the value of millions of dollars. They were 
not particularly clever young men, but they shared an enthusiasm for 
the work they had undertaken. They banded themselves together to 
promote the religious welfare of young men in similar positions in 
life. Their work was of a distinctly missionary character. It was a 
mission of young men to young men. Their motto was, ‘“ Christ for 
young men, and young men for Christ.” They taught this, that 


68 


religion was a personal matter between a young man and his God, it 
was a vital principle which did not expend itself in going to church 
on Sunday, but it was a power which must be applied to the daily 
life, and be the mainspring of every thought and action. 

“ Now, in 1851 a unique opportunity presented itself to the Associa- 
tion in London to bring the claims of a Young Men’s Christian 
Association, and its advantages, before the young men of the world. 
We had in that year the opening of the first great international 
exhibition, and thousands of people came from all parts of the world 
to visit it. The Association had written for it a large number of 
tracts and pamphlets, the bottom of each one of which contained an 
invitation to the receiver, to come to the rooms of the Association. 
A gentleman from Montreal visiting the Old Country, received one 
of these leaflets, and went to the Association, and as a result of his 
visit, on his return to Montreal, a similar Association was formed on 
the site we stand on to-day. I need not tell the history of your 
Association, for your admirable Secretary, Mr. Budge, has already 
done so in print, and you here are all familiar with that spacious 
building on Dominion Square, which is a credit to the commercial 
metropolis of Canada, and a token of the large-hearted generosity of 
your citizens. 


dialed at alta Gate 


E. 
ie? 


ie 
ie? 
c 
e 
I 

r 
eee 


Wal 


“ Now, Ladies and Gentlemen, it is to commemorate the organiza- 
tion of this first Young Men’s Christian Association on the American 
Continent that I have now the honour, as my father’s representative, 
to unveil the tablet.” 


69 


“ Now, my friends, you will notice that the names of the original 
founders do not appear on the tablet, and I will tell you why. It is 
no secret.” It is typical of Association membership.  Self-forgetful- 
ness is one of its virtues, but although their names are not recorded 
here, we know that they were good men, true men, patriotic men, 
men with great hearts and strong faith. They knew the value of a 
Godly life, and the moral influence of Christian character, and they 
organized not merely to benefit the young fellows around them, but 
to help the stranger coming to your city. They were imbued with 
the true Imperial instinct. They realized the great future ahead for 
Canada and they foresaw that Montreal would be the gate through 
which tens of thousands, and hundreds of thousands of young men 
would pass to people your splendid country beyond, and knowing as 
they did that the future of the Dominion, for weal or for woe, depend- 
ed on the character of those young men, they instituted meetings and 
Bible classes to teach the young fellows how to live. They formed 
educational classes to enable the young man whose education had 
been neglected to meet the commercial requirements of the day. 
They played the role of guardian angel to the youngster from across 
the sea, and provided a home away from home. They gave him 
wholesome amusement, and healthy recreation. They believed in 
Christian manliness, and built a gymnasium where he could develop 
the muscles God had given him, and build up a strong constitution to 
aid him in the battle of life. If he was ill, they visited him in the 
hospital. If he was called home, they followed him to the cemetery. 
All honour, I say, to those men. Their record is a fine example ot 
Christianity in action. 

But these men did more: They promoted similar institutions in 
Toronto, Kingston, Brockville, and other cities and towns, and render- 
ed valuable services in many ways to the city, and throughout these 
long fifty years, through evil report and good report, in sunshine and 
in troublous times, the committee and officers of your Association 
have worked unceasingly. The building in Dominion Square is as 
much a monument to their energy and labour as this tablet is to the 
formation of the Association on this site, and I feel sure that so long 
as the work of the Association is carried on to the glory of God and 
for the benefit of young men the committee will never lack the 
support of the citizens of Montreal.” 


At the conclusion of Mr. Howard Williams’s address the 
Secretary announced that the following cablegram was sent. 


“June roth, 1gor. 
“ Sir George Williams, 
St. Paul’s Churchyard, London,— 
Montreal sends Jubilee greetings. Hebrews twelve, one and two.” 


“BUDGE? 


THE INFLUENCE OF THE MONTREAL ASSOCIATION. 


Mr. Joun R. Morr then spoke as follows:— 


“Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen: Without losing from 
thought and memory the inspiring and instructive address to which 


70 


we have just listened with much appreciation, and without attempting 
to recapitulate the sweep of the Association achievements on the 
continent as a whole, concerning which we had the privilege of 
speaking yesterday, we would at this time concentrate attention 
upon the work and influence of the Montreal Association, which is, 
as we have heard, the parent Association of the North American 
movement. 

“The Montreal Association has helped to mould the young 
manhood of this great city for well nigh two generations. In doing 
so it has, in a marked way, helped to promote the welfare and to 
determine the destiny of the city. The Montreal Association has 
combined the forces of young men of all the churches of the city, 
and brought their united influence to bear against a united opposition 
of the forces of temptation, a united indifference, a united scepticism, 
a united worldliness, and is therefore achieving, and has achieved, what 
could not have been accomplished by these young men working as 
individuals or as detachments not related to each other. 

“The Montreal Association, let me add, has commanded and kept 
the confidence of the churches throughout the city through all these 
years, and that in itself is a testimony of which the Association may 
well be proud. Moreover, it has inspired increasingly, the backing 
and co-operation in money and time, of the business and professional 
men of the city. During these fifty years, they have counted it a 
privilege to place at the disposal of this Association not less than half 
a million of dollars, and it is interesting to notice that they seem to 
have the disposition to increase the amount from year to year. While 
wisely conservative, the Montreal Association has been truly progres- 
sive, and has, step by step, incorporated the best ideas wrought out 
and evolved in the rich and varied experience of the entire Association 
Brotherhood. They have been trying all things, and holding fast at the 
saine time to that which is good. While the progress in things external 
and material has been nothing less than remarkable, the Montreal 
Association has preserved an ever-spreading spiritual life. This is 
not an easy thing todo. Moreover, the Montreal Association has been 
unswervingly loyal to the central points of the Christian faith. There 
has never been the slightest suspicion, or the least question with 
reference to the position of this organization upon the things essen- 
tial, and which we believe. The leaders of this work have insisted by 
example and by word, on the supremacy of the religious work of the 
Young Men’s Christian Association. Thank God for their example, 
and for their influence in this respect. One unbroken line of conver- 
sions is the answer which God has afforded them for their loyalty in 
these essential things. They have constantly emphasized the study 
of the Word of God, and have not lost sight of the true objective of 
all Bible study, namely, character and service. The Montreal Associa- 
tion has stood for developing and sending out young men of reality. 
These young men as they go into athletics and other sports, stand for 
that which is honourable and clean and wholesome. As they go into 
society they stand for good comradeship, for Christian friendship, and 
for purity. They go into business, not to become tricksters, but men 
of integrity and of sterling honour. They devote themselves to the 
legal and medical professions, not to become pettifoggers and quacks, 
but to honour the best traditions of these great professions. They 
enter the service of their country not to become merely politicians, 


71 


but statesmen. They participate in the activities of the Church, not as 
hypocrites, but as men of reality. This spirit of genuineness, of 
sincerity, is one of the deep secrets of the achievements of the Mont- 
real Association. Emerson says, “What you are, speaks so loud that 
I cannot hear what you say.” One thinks of this in thinking of that 
true note ever sounded out in silence as it were, by the lives lived and 
developed in this Association. 

“The Montreal Association has been, and is, a great training 
school. It has sent out into the Christian ministry of different 
denominations, into the foreign mission field, and into the secretary- 
ship of the Associations not less than forty young men. This is a 
mighty work in itself. But besides this, it has trained and inspired 
hundreds, I think I may say thousands, of men who have scattered 
themselves among the scores of churches in the city, and are to-day 
true pillars of the Church and more efficient workmen as a result of 
the training and inspiration afforded by the Association. While intent 
upon building up the young manhood of Montreal, this Association 
has been a formative factor in the Association movement throughout 
the Dominion of Canada, and has helped greatly to hold the Associa- 
tions of the States to the true purpose of the Young Mer ’s Christian 
Association. 

* The Montreal Association, moreover, has included within the 
range of its sympathy and helpfulness, the young men of the whole 
world. This Association has esteemed it an honour to recognize 
itself as a part of the world-wide Association movement. The Creed 
of St. Augustine might fitly be quoted to-day to characterize the work 
of this Association, and its position : ‘* A whole Christ for my salva- 
tion, a whole Bible for my staff, a whole Church for my fellowship, 
and a whole world for my parish.’ The Christian Association, like 
the Christian individual, cannot live unto itself. This Association 
early recognized, and it has never ceased to emphasize that it has a 
mission to the young men of less favored lands. Therefore, I am able 
to say now what it gives me great pleasure to say, that the Montreal 
Association is doing more, and has done more, than any other Asso- 
ciation on this continent, or any other continent, to extend the helpful 
influence of the Association brotherhood to the non-Christian world. 
I might almost say that the sun never sets on the activities of the 
Montreal Young Men’s Christian Association, because I am reminded 
that in the Punjaub is one man, in Bengal another, in the Madras Presi- 
dency a third, travelling among the cities of India a fourth, among the 
universities of India a fifth, in the great city of Tien-Tsin, in China, a 
sixth, and there is still a seventh in Japan. All these seven men are 
the representatives of this Association. I call attention to this record 
as an example and stimulus to other Associations and to inspire us all 
to larger achievements, because, believe me brothers, if we are to do 
the fair thing by the world for which Jesus Christ died, the Montreal 
Association must not be satisfied with what it is doing, and the other 
cities of the world must rise in their might and do much more. 

“In a word, the Montreal Association may be termed as nearly as 
we can term any association, a model Young Men’s Christian Associa- 
tion. Without flattery to Montreal, and without apologizing to any 
other Associations, because I am willing that they shall know what I 
say, but in recognition of what God hath wrought I simply state this 
as a fact. When the Foreign Department of the International Com- 


re 
(4 


mittee wish to send out a new secretary to a non-Christian nation, and 
wish to have him receive further training and instruction, and to study 
some model or type which he can reproduce in the non-Christian 
world, where do you think we send that man ? We send him to 
Montreal. 

“ Now in view of what I have stated, it is not necessary that I 
should speak of what the Montreal Association ought to be in the 
next fifty years. This Association has to be congratulated upon the 
leadership it has had in its secretaries and laymen. Keep up the high 
standard of the personnel in these two respects and continue the work 
on these lines which have been opened up by the Spirit of God, and 
there is no reason why the next fifty years of the Association should 
not be richer and yield a more abundant fruitage than the half century 
which we commemorate to-day. To this end, and this is the special 
message I would bring to-day, let us keep Jesus Christ at the centre 
of this work. We bear His name and sign. We go to Him to learn 
those methods which in the true sense of the word succeed. He 
furnishes us the ideal that moves men. We go to Him to catch that 
spirit that literally overcomes the world. We draw from Him our life. 
Anchored to Christ the work of the Montreal Association will abide, 
and only so. I congratulate the men and women of this city who 
give time and money, and energy, and influence, and active thought 
to the work of the Young Men’s Christian Association, because, 
believe me, you expend your time, and money, and energy, and 
influence, and thought upon that which will abide. After the Associa- 
tion building on Victoria Square, and after the one on Dominion 
Square, have crumbled to the dust; after this tablet has been obliterat- 
ed by the sure and tireless and never-ending work of time; after the 
prophecies of these three days have been fulfilled, so far as they have 
been in harmony with the will of God; after tongues have ceased; after 
knowledge has been done away by larger restatements of knowledge; 
after yon mountain has gone to the plain——for your own honoured 
Sir William Dawson maintained it was but the type of evanescence; 
after the beautiful St. Lawrence has ceased to run to the sea; yes, 
after this fair city gives way to that holy city, the new Jerusalem let 
down from God out of heaven, these influences, all anchored to Christ, 
will abide, for the simple reason that the world passeih away, and the 
fashion thereof, but he that doeth the will of God abideth forever, 
and for the deeper reason that Christ Himself is the same yesterday, 
to-day, yea, and forever.” 


The hymn, “ Blest be the tie that binds,” was sung, also the 
National Anthem. 

At six o’clock a luncheon was tendered the visiting dele- 
gates by the Board of Directors, succeeded by an informal 
reception of the Association members. The visitors left for 
the Jubilee Convention at Boston on the nine o'clock train. 


