TWENTY-SIXTH 


ANNUAL RE POR? 


OF THE 


SSeS 


=== | 


: 


[Hines 
Ar 


FPL ll 


Cyt 
7 “fi 
“il fi 
eRe) 
5 H 
Ht I 
(Nu 


y 


er 0 


OFFICERS AND COMMYETEE FOR 1877-78, 
AND ces 


LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS. 


+S ¢ —-——______. 


GMontreal ; 
D. BENTLEY & CO,. PRINTERS, 364 NOTRE DAME STREET. 


1878. 


UF ah gt o*% : : Lo baer ‘< | 
ri + : ae 


* - ‘ . ’ 


ete 
e. 


| 
: 
ue 


> 


_ eflaeragedua' 


Pare AAC TATOM joe ea THIAT 


ii 


LIST OF OFFICERS AND COMMITTEE FOR 1878. 


jIresident. 
T. JAMES CLAXTON. 


@Gice-Presidents. 


W. J. PATTERSON. S. CALDECOTT. 
J. S. MCLACHLAN, H. SANDHAM. 


Treasurer. 
JAMES F. SCRIVER. 


Secretary. 
D. A. BUDGE. 

Committee. 
O. C. EDWARDS. WILLIAM ORR. 
G. W. JONES, D. W. ROSS. 
GEO. HAGUE. R. H. BUCHANAN. 
C. CUSHING. G. E. JACQUES, Jr. 
D. BENTLEY. GEO. YOUNG, 
—. ROGERS. JOHN CURRIE, 
W. L. FRASER. WALTER JORDAN, 
THOMAS ROBERTSON. ALF. SANDHAM. 
L. H. PACKARD. JOHN MURPHY. 
H. WATSON. N. O. GREENE. 
R. THOMAS. R. HENDERSON. 
W. SCOTT. A. KINGMAN. 


J. R. LOWDEN. 


Board of Directors. 


T. JAMES CLAXTON. D. MORRICE. 

E. V. MOSELEY. LL. FATON. 
CHARLES ALEXANDER. N. S. WHITNEY. 
HENRY LYMAN. THOS. CRAIG. 
W. CLENDINNING. R, IRWIN. 

J. TORRANCE. H. A. NELSON. 
GEO. YOUNG. E. K. GREENE. 


W. REID. 


aa 


STANDING COMMITTEES. 


Sission. 
HENRY SANDHAM, - CHAIRMAN. 
A. SANDHAM. JOHN CURRIE. 
JOHN MURPHY. A. KINGMAN, 


W. L. FRASER. 


Lectures, Classes and Meetings. 
DR. O. C. EDWARDS, - CHAIRMAN. 
L. H.. PACKARD. DR. KELLEY. 
j. i. a BLV Ee W. P. RODGER. 
R. S. WEIR. 


SAembership. 


W. J. ORR, - - + - - CHAIRMAN, 
R. McCALLUM. WALTER JORDAN. 
R. H. BUCHANAN. A. C. McINDOE. 
GEORGE MOONEY. 


Rooms and Library. 
GEO. E. JAQUES, JR., - CHAIRMAN. 


WM. SCOTT. CHAS. CUSHING. 
| ROBT. ACTON. W. O. BUCHANAN. 
AHinance. 
S. CALDECOTT, - - - CHAIRMAN. 
J. S. McLACHLAN. | GEO, YOUNG. 
L. H. PACKARD. vW. AHERN. 
WM. J. PATTERSON. GEO. HAGUE, 
D. BENTLEY. D. W. ROSS. 
RICHARD THOMAS. 
Employment. 
GEO. YOUNG, - - - CHAIRMAN. 
THOS. ROBERTSON. WM. HENRY. 
Heception. , 
. H. BUCHANAN,- - CHAIRMAN. 
F, BI4STREET, F. BRUNDAGE. 
Fr. E. JODERY. W. R. GREGG. 
J. S. HORTON. T. D. GIBSON. 
J. C. THOMPSON, A. K. WATSON. 
G. W. MOIR. 
Visitation. 
H. WATSON, - - - - CHAIRMAN. 
ROBT. BENNETT. J. LOUSON. 
J. WESTON. JOHN CURRIE. 
Enbitation. 
R. HENDERSON, - - CHAIRMAN. 
JAS, SCOTT. H. CRAWLEY. 
JOHN OHLING. PETER KYLE. 
A. D. LANSKAIL. JAMES REA. 
JAS. WYLIE, B. AVERY. 
Boarding House. 


W. FRISBY, - - - - CHAIRMAN. 


yf Ob do ie cp hi gig bt dee 


a I 


‘he Montreal Young Men’s Christian Association has had the 
pleasure of celebrating its T'wenty-fifth Anniversary, and the occasion 
of its ‘‘ Silver Wedding ” was one of special interest. 


The growth of these Associations on this Continent, during the 
past quarter of a century, has caused them to be fully recognized as 
an important branch of the work of the Church of Christ, and they 
are now judged by their fruits. 


At the recent anniversary of the Boston Young Men’s Christian 
Association, the Rev. Joseph Cook, of that city, laid down the 
following propositions as the platform upon which Young Men’s 
Christian Associations are based, and they are so complete and so 
fully answer the questions which are sometimes asked as to the 
necessity of our existence, that we gladly reprint them for the benefit 
of our friends :— 


1, That there is a great amount of work which ought to be done 
for young men in cities, especially for the unemployed, the 
strangers and the homeless; and that, as the proportion of 
population living in the cities has increased since the opening 
of the century from one-twenty-fifth to one-fifth, the import- 
ance 1s great and growing. 


2. That neither individual churches taken separately, nor indi-. 
‘vidual denominations taken separately, can do this work 
easily and adequately. 


3. That all the Evangelical denominations united in a city can do 
the work easily by the organization of a Young Men’s 
Christian Association as their representative. 


4, That a Young Men’s Christian Association should be neither a 
club nor a church, but a representative agency of the 
churches ; not a club, making amusement and social inter- 
course as much its objects as religion and practical philan- 
thropy; not a church, with independent creed and member- 
ship, initiatiag its own activity, but a representative agency 
of the churches, or the library, the fireside, the prayer meet- 
ing and the philanthropic committee of the religious popula- 
tion of a city in its relations to young men who need aid. 


10. 


6 


That Young Men’s Christian Associations should bring the 
churches together in spiritual and practical, and not in 
ecclesiastical union. 


That jealousy on the part of the churches of an institution thus 
representative of themselves, is as unreasonable as jealousy of 
representatives on the part of constituents. | 


That many and varied experiments have proved that all Kvan- 
gelical denominations are capable of agreeing as to the 
character of libraries, religious meetings, lectures, preaching, 
and work in revivals; and that, for evident reasons, the 
Evangelical and un-Evangelical denominations cannot thus 
practically unite with each other. 


That the necessity of the case, business convenience and the 
‘interests of peace, and not of bigotry and exclusiveness, 
require, therefore, that the voting power in Young Men’s 
Christian Associations should belong only to Evangelical 
Church members. 


That membership in Young Men’s Christian Associations should 
be open to any one of good moral character, wholly irrespec- 
tive of creed. 


That in Great Britain and the United States, in the largest 
Christian cities of the world, Young Men’s Christian Associ- 
ations thus managed have had, for a third of a century, a 
growing success in meeting wants that the growth of great 
cities is making colossal; and that this success is a sign of 
the times, clearly indicating it to be the duty of the churches 
to give to such representative institutions a zealous support. 


Standing on this platform, we present the Association 
to the entire public as a-candidate for another 25 years’ 
term of office. 

Profiting by our past experience and that of our great 
brotherhood of Associations, sustained by the prayers of 
parents, whose sons have been saved through our humble efforts, 
by the promises of God’s blessed Word, and by the enlight- 
enment of the Holy Spirit, we would, for the future, totally 
consecrate ourselves to the service of the Lord Jesus, the 
Church and young men. 


In presenting you with this our T'wenty-sixth Annual Report, 


we do so with renewed feelings of thankfulness to God for counting 
us worthy to be co-laborers with Him during another year, and for 
giving us such manifest tokens of His grace and favor, and filling 
our hearts with gladness in His service. We can truly say ‘‘ Hitherto 
lath the Lord helped us,” and we are encouraged to go forward with 


confidence in His mighty power to make His own Word effective, 


7 


and in expectation that the result will still more redound to the glory 
of our God and the best interests of our fellow young men. 


To remove an impression which exists in the minds of some, we 
desire to say that our work in every department is wholly unsectarian. 
Every religious denomination in the city is represented on our 
membership, and no discussion on denominational differences is 
allowed in any of our meetings. One of the most pleasing features 
of our work is, that many of the active members have labored side 
by side for months without knowing to which denomination each 


other belonged. 


Our Religious Work is divided into two branches,—that carried 
on in the building being under the charge of the Committee on 
Lectures, Classes and Meetings, and that which is carried on outside 
in charge of the Committee on Missions. During the past year 840 
regular religious services have been held in the building, (more than 
an average of two daily), with an estimated total attendance of 
42,264. Of this number 194 have been exclusively for young men. 
The charge is sometimes brought against these organizations, and 
perhaps not without foundation, that but little direct work is done 
for young men. Sabbath school work, and temperance work, and 
general mission work, and city charities, are carried on, which are. 
all good in their place, but that the main object which the original 
association workers had in view, viz:—to influence young men for 
Christ, and enlist them in definite christian work, is overlooked. We 
endeavor to keep this one point prominently forward, work by young 
men for young men, and the result is seen in the conversion of a 
large number of young men, and the enlistment of many merely 
nominal christians into active work. The chairman reports upon 
these several services as follows : 


The Sunday Evening Gospel Meeting.—The attendance at this 
meeting during the year has been very good,—again and again the 
hall has been so overcrowded that many have been unable to gain 
an admission, and that when no special attraction was offered. But 
above all, we are made glad from the fact that this meeting has been 
productive of spiritual and eternal good to not a few—some who 
have been merely passing through our city, have in that meeting 
been led to consider seriously their soul’s interest,—some sailors 
have there been awakened, and brought out of darkness unto light, 
and others whom we might mention; thus has the Lord used this 


8 


meeting to His glory, in converting sinners, and also we are glad to 
say, In reclaiming some of His own children, who had wandered from 
Him. And those who have had the supervision feel deeply thankful 
to God for the way in which they have been sustained by divine 
grace, and helped in the performance of this very important work. 


Young Men's Evangelistic Meeting, every Saturday evening, 
has continued during the past year to be a means of mutual encour- 
agement and strength in the divine life. Again and again those of 
God’s children who have had to work hard during the week, have 
come to this meeting on Saturday evening truly as thirsty souls, and 
the Lord has met them there, and “made them to drink of the 
brook by the way, and with joy to lift up their heads.” The general 
expression is, it is a blessed, precious meeting, and a constant source 
of spiritual refreshment and encouragement to those who attend. 
Not only so, but those who are “Strangers,” have by the grace of 
God, through this instrumentality, been brought nigh, and made 
heirs of God and joint heirs with Christ. Conversions are constantly 
the result of this meeting. 


The Noon-day Prayer Meeting has of course varied in its 
attendance, from a dozen at some times, to the room being packed 
full at others; the average attendance would be about 30. Truly 
this noon hour has been a season of sweet fellowship and mutual 
help, and has been used of God in arousing sinners. More than one 
has ‘just happened to be” at that meeting, not looking for God, 
but there the conscience has been touched, and the soul has been 
led to ask with all sincerity, ‘What must I do to be saved.” 


The Boys Prayer Meeting, under the supervision of Mr, Harold 
Buchanan, has been continued without intermission during the year. 
The attendance would average about 15. Through this means, the 
Lord has been pleased to open some of these young hearts to the 
truth as it is in Jesus. Certainly this division of our work is of the 
greatest importance, in thus early leading the young into the ways 
of pleasantness, and into the paths of peace. 


The Sunday Afternoon Bible Class has continued throughout 
the year, presided over by our Secretary, Mr. D. A. Budge. The 
attendance would average about 35. The International Scheme of 
Lessons has been followed, and the study of them has been delightful 
and profitable. The Lord has also owned this branch of our work, 
and strengthened our brother for this very responsible and arduous 


~ 


9 


task. Three members of this class have been drafted into Sabbath 
School work, as teachers, during the year. 


The Tuesday Evening Bible Reading, under the direction and 
instruction of Mr, Alfred Sandham, has been a means of spiritual 
benefit and help to those who have availed themselves of this 
important study. ‘he lessons have been taken from the Gospel of 
St. John consecutively. The average attendance has been about 20. 
We trust that he will be permitted to continue the chairmanship 
during the present year. 


Lhe Gospel Temperance Meeting, held every Sunday afternoon, 
at 4.30, under the chairmanship of Mr. William J. Patterson, was 
commenced in June last, and has continued with a varied attendance, 
the average being about 100. The opening address was delivered 
by Dean Bond, and at each meeting the city pastors and laymen in 
sympathy with this work have delivered addresses, and an opportunity 
is given at the close of each meeting to sign the pledge. Mr. John 
Dougall, of New York, the founder of the old Sunday afternoon 
temperance meeting in Bonaventure Hall, on his recent visit to the 
city, took part in this meeting, and was greeted by a large number 
of his old friends and fellow-laborers in the cause. The object the 
Committee has in view, is to bring prominently before the public 
the religious aspect of the great question of temperance reform ; 
believing, as they do, that nothing but the grace of God, and the 
regenerating power of the Holy Ghost, can permanently liberate a 
man who is unfortunate enough to be once enslaved within its grasp. 
Our pledge reads as follows :—- | 


“With God’s help, I hereby promise to abstain from the use 
of all kinds of intoxicating liquors as a beverage, and as far as in 
my power lies, discountenance their use in others,” 


The Secretary also keeps a Pledge Book in his office, and during 
the year, no less than 480 persons have come voluntari| y and added 
their signatures. Some of these young men have been rescued, and 
are now leading consistent christian lives. Just before the Christmas 
holidays, the Rev. Canon Baldwin conducted a week of special daily 
prayer meetings in the Rooms, from 5 to 6 o’clock, the subject being 
intemperance, and for the rescue of its victims in this city. These 
meetings were well attended, and resulted to our knowledge in the 
conversion of two men. Ata recent meeting, one of our members 
testified that, although one of the greatest drunkards in Montreal, © 


B 


el i a em a, SS -* 


10 


he had been saved through the grace of God. In company with a 
friend he came in to sign the pledge during those meetings, and it 
resulted in his conversion. Thus it will be seen that the Association 
is fully alive and active in this work of temperance reform, notwith- 
standing charges to the contrary which have frequently been made. 
It however recognizes no permanent reform, either from intemperance 
or any other sin, apart from faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, and the 
acceptance of Him as a personal Saviour. 


Besides these regular meetings already mentioned, we have had 
at. various times special evangelistic services. Dr. Lorimer, of 
Boston, spent a few days amongst us, and we feel sure that he was 
used to the spiritual blessing of not a few. Our Bro. John Currie, 
also continued these special meetings after his departure, with 
blessing resting upon them. Rev. W. H. Parsons, of Boston, during 
his visit gave some very interesting and profitable Bible Readings, 
through which our members were richly blessed. We refer with 
ereat pleasure to the visit of Major Malan, one of our oldest members, 
who, on leaving some 10 years ago, did not wish to sever his connec- 
tion with us, but to remain registered as ‘‘ absent on duty.’’ Since 
retiring from the army, he has devoted his life to Mission work in 
South Africa, and has come over to America for a vacation, as well 
as to meet with his former friends and fellow laborers. He took 
part in several of our meetings, and his lengthened experience in 
christian work, caused his address to be full of interest and profit 
to our members. 


The Chairman adds, in concluding his Report, that those 
engaged in these various meetings, feel more and more the tremend- 
ous responsibility connected with this great work. We are seeking 
to influence men, not for a day, but for eternity, and the injunc- 
tion is not only imperative for those who listen to “take heed how 
they hear,’ but to those who stand up and speak to take heed how 
they speak, so that no one shall be misguided or misinformed con- 
cerning “the straight and narrow way which leadeth unto life 
eternal.”’ 


CHILDREN’S SERVICES. 


During the year, a series of Children’s Services were held, 
illustrated by a selection of very fine Dissolving Views. The object 
was to endeavor to instil a love into the minds of the children for 
Bible study, and thus aid the Sabbath School teachers in their 


11 


work. The subject presented first was “ Egypt and its place in 
Scripture History,” and it was followed by three other meetings, 
illustrating different Bible scenes. The attendance was as large as 
the Hall would allow, and the children, judging from the interest 
manifested, seemed to fully appreciate the efforts put forth for their 
entertainment and profit. Mr. Alfred Sandham provided the 
‘< Views,” and cheerfully rendered the labor in connection with this 
Service. We hope they will be carried on again, as we think they 
will be productive of much good. 


MISSION WORK. 


During the past year, 254 Religious Services have been held 
outside the building, with a total attendance of 4,740 persons. The 
Chairman, Mr. Alfred Sandham, in reporting upon these meetings in 
detail, says that their Committee desire to return thanks to 
Almighty God for the success which has attended the work. The 
seed, in some instances, has fallen into good ground, and has brought 
forth fruit to God’s glory, and, while sowing and watering the seed, 
the brethren therein engaged have been greatly blessed. Gospel 
Meetings were held weekly during the winter, at St. Jean Baptiste 
Village, Tanneries, Hochelaga and St. Matthew’s Church, Point St. 
Charles. Cottage Meetings were held at Papineau Square, Quebec 
Gate Barracks (French) and 104 Prince Street. The meetings at 
Point St. Charles and Hochelaga were full of interest throughout, 
the former being very largely attended. arly in the season, it was 
transferred to the Victoria Mission, Forfar Street; the Committee 
in charge having offered the free use of the building. 


Hospital Services have been held every Sunday morning at 10 
o’clock. The attendance has varied according to the number of 
convalescent patients; but these afflicted ones have expressed great 
interest, and we have reason to know that the physician of souls 
was present to heal the broken-hearted. Many interesting cases 
might be instanced in this work. 


Work among the Sailors.—Religious Services, especially for the 
sailors, have been held on Sunday afternoons at 3, also at 7 P.M. ; 
and, of late, a Service has been commenced at 11 o’clock,—all these 
being held in the Sailors’ Institute, under the ditection of Mr. John 
Ritchie, Manager of the Sailors’ Institute, and having no official 
connection with our work. A Committee of Tract Distributors, 
however, has gone forth every Sunday morning, and visited the 


12 


vessels in harbor, as far as possible distributing to the sailors tracts 
and religious papers in the various languages, and pressing upon 
them, whenever an opportunity occurred, the ‘one thing needful.” 
The attendance at our meetings of so many sailors has been largely 
due to the work of this Committee, and many conversions have 
been the result. In one steamship alone, one sailor was converted 
each time they arrived in port; and, on leaving the last time, the 
little band of Christians, who had learned to love the name of Jesus, 
had increased to four, and they went on their journey full of joy 
and gladness. The testimony of one of their number, at our Satur- 
day night meeting, will never be forgotten. God bless our sailors! 


Work among the Firemen.—This has been carried on under 
the supervision of Mr. William Orr, who has the spiritual 
welfare of the Fire Brigade laid very deeply upon his heart. All 
the Stations have been visited every Sunday morning by a small 
band, who have distributed amongst the men religious papers and 
magazines. These have been gladly received; but the Committee 
continued praying that the way might be opened for holding religious 
service amongst them,—their duties being such that they seldom 
have an opportunity of attending Church. The answer camea few 
weeks since, and, at the request of the Firemen themselves, a meet- 
ing was organized in one of the Stations, and is held regularly every 
Sunday evening at 8.45. As a result, many of the men have signed 
the pledge, and one or two have become anxious about their souls 
welfare. The members of the Association are asked specially to 
pray for this work, that these men, who are so constantly exposed to 
such imminent danger, may be won for Christ. 


For this Mission work, of course funds have been required, and 
in this, the Chairman says, the Lord has supplied the need. 
Sufficient has been promised to meet all the demands. 


OUR MEMBERSHIP. 


At the close of the year, our membership list stood as follows: 


POtIve FON LG, AR. AR 536 
Masovitte si iid Say. PAG. OA 375 
TH PEA EPR 74 CR 20 
Loney sis. ea as 42 


13 


The number of new members admitted during the year has 
been 85. This may seem small in comparison with other Associations, 
but when it is remembered that we have neither gymnasium, nor 
bowling allies, nor popular “star” lecture courses, as attractions, 
nothing save our definite religious work for young men, it will not 
be considered such a small accession. Notwithstanding this increase, 
it will be seen that our list is still over one hundred less than last 
year. This is accounted for by the fact, that when the Building 
was opened a large number handed in their names under the 
excitement of the moment, and without any permanent interest in 
the welfare of the Association. This swelled our lists to over 1,000 
members, and now we are erasing all names who have, after being 
called upon, not responded for two years. Many of these also have 
left the city. We purpose to continue this cutting down process, 
until we get a correct list of members who are in sympathy with 
our work. 


ROOMS AND LIBRARY. 


There has been a large increase of visitors and readers in 
attendance in our rooms dnring the past year. The daily attendance 
is counted once or twice monthly, and from these counts, it is 
estimated that fully 90,600 persons have visited our Rooms, not 
including meetings. We are receiving in our Reading Room at 
present, 13 daily papers, and 62 weeklies, and 23 monthly magazines, 
at a cost of $194.00. For 37 of these weekly newspapers we are 
indebted to the publishers, who have kindly furnished them free of 
charge, and to whom the thanks of the Association are due. We 
regret that very few additions have been made to our library during 
the year, as the funds would not warrant it. Through the kindness 
of Messrs. Morton, Phillips & Bulmer, and Messrs. Dawson Bros., 
several volumes of magazines have been bound, and placed on our 
shelves. We have still other complete volumes which require 
binding, and mention the fact in the hope that some friends may be 
induced to assist. There is room on our shelves for many more 
volumes, and any donations in this department of our work will be 
thankfully received. The number of volumes borrowed during the 
year has been 864. We are sure this number would be more than 
doubled, if we had the standard modern publications on our shelves. 
Who will supply this need, and place within the reach of our members 
the scientific and religious literature of the day? The chairman 


ae 


14 


suggests to his successors, the advisibility of having an auction in 
December of all magazines and papers, the purchaser to have 
possession of the old numbers as soon as the new one is received. 


RECEPTION COMMITTEE. 


The work appointed to this Committee, of attendance at the 
Rooms each evening from 7.30 to 10, and receiving and making 
welcome all strangers and visitors, has been carried out during the 
year under the chairmanship of Mr. H. Sandham. Over 4,000 
young men have been thus received and welcomed by this Committee, 
and whenever an opportunity has occurred, the conversation has 
been directed to the interest of their soul’s salvation. We have 
recorded over 150 special cases of this kind, besides a large number 
who have been induced to sign the pledge. 


INVITATION COMMITTEE. 


The work entrusted to this Committee has been under the 
supervision of Mr. R. Henderson, and is one of our most important 
and difficult branches of service. They meet at 7.15 each Saturday 
evening, and, after prayer, go forth to their different posts with 
invitations to the meeting. The prominent hotels and_ billiard 
saloons are visited, and a member is placed on each corner of the 


| leading streets surrounding the building. To stand up in a crowded 


Prayer Meeting, surrounded by those who are of one mind, and 
testify to one’s love for Christ, is comparatively an easy task com- 
pared with going out into the enemy’s camp and suffering the jeering 
remarks and sneers which are constantly received in carrying out 
this work. It is a grand school for testing the depth of one’s 
religious convictions, as no one who as simply a ‘“‘ name to live” can 
stand it long. ‘They are the “ picket men” in our work. The love 
of Christ must be the motive power in this service. This Com- 
mittee have 20 names on their roll, and have had an average 
attendance each Saturday evening during the year of eight workers. 
They realize that “it is given unto them, on the behalf of Christ, 
not only to believe on His name, but also to suffer for His sake,” 
and go forth joyfully at His command into the streets and lanes, “to 
compel them to come in,” that the house may be filled. The inter- 
esting incidents that have occurred greatly encourage the workers 
and leave them no room to doubt “ that their labor is not in vain in 


15 


the Lord.” We might fill pages of this Report in detailing them, 
but will just mention a few illustrations :— | 


A gentleman, in one of the hotels, on receiving an invitation, 
expressed his surprise ; and, on enquiring further about the Associa- 
tion, said that he did not profess to be a Christian, and had never 
attended a Young Men’s Christian Association, but was so pleased 
with the earnestness of the young man, that he gave him $5.00 to. 
help them on in their work. 


A young man on his way to the Theatre, a few days since, 
received an invitation, and, instead of going there, came to our 
meeting. He was spoken to at the close, and found to be deeply 
anxious about his soul. 


Another was the case of a young Chicago merchant, who, at 
one of the hotels, received an invitation to the meeting ; but, having 
made up his mind to spend the night in licentiousness, he threw it 
away. As he walked along the street, he received a second and a 
third, which shared the same fate. At last, a fourth was handed 
to him, which led him to the meeting, instead of carrying out his 
purpose. He became under deep conviction, and arose and told 
how he had formerly ridiculed religion, and how he was led to that 
meeting, and asked prayers that he might be saved. On Sunday 
evening, he was spoken to by one of our city Pastors, and we trust 
that the words were blessed to his eternal salvation. 


A woman called at the Rooms recently to sign the Pledge, and 
on being asked what had induced her to take that step, she said that 
her husband had brought home an invitation, which he had received 
on the street, which had laid about the place for three or four days. 
She was addicted to drink, and realized that her only help was in 
Christ ; so she took the invitation, came to the Rooms and signed 
the Pledge; and, from all that can be learned, she is saved through 
the power of Christ. 


Besides the arrest of many young men in this way, the Com- 
mittee frequently meet with God’s children, who are just passing 
through the city, and are delighted to come and have fellowship 
with us. Their words have often been full of cheer, and added 
new life to our meetings. In this work, they have distributed over 
36,400 invitations slips, and on each one there is printed some 
striking portion of Scripture, so that the indirect result of thus 


16 


scattering broadcast “the seed,” can never be known until we stand 
before Him on that great day. 


SERMONS TO YOUNG MEN. 


In harmony with the other Associations throughout the world, 
the Week of Special Prayer for Young Men was observed by us; 
and, in response to a circular, asking the Pastors to preach specially 
to young men, twenty-three sermons were delivered, and the tone of 
the addresses, without an exception, showed how deeply the Pastors 
sympathized with our work. The Noon Meeting, each day, was 
devoted to that object, and a Special Meeting was held on the 
Tuesday evening, when addresses were delivered by Dean Bond, 
Rev. G. H. Wells and Rev. A. H. Munro. We desire, at this 
point, to express our most sincere thanks to our city Pastors for the 
kindness they have always shown ia their active sympathy and 
hearty co-operation in connection with our work; and to this fact 
we attribute much of the success which has attended our labors. 


Employment Agency.—This Department has never been so 
fully entered upon by our Association as in other cities, where it is 
made a separate branch, under the direction of one, whose whole 
time is devoted to the work. We have received a great number of 
applications for situations, but have only registered those who could 
furnish satisfactory references; in each case, we communicate with 
the parties referred to. Our register shows 192, and for this 
number we have obtained 57 situations. The importance of this 
branch is very great, and we hope to be able to give it more promi- 
nence in the future. 


Boarding House Register—We endeavor to keep as complete 
a register of good boarding houses as possible, and it is continually 
consulted. During the year 156 young men have been directed to 
suitable places, and in many instances, this has enabled us to follow 
up young men who come here as strangers, and save them from the 
temptations with which this city abounds. 


Miscellaneous Items.—We supply writing material free of 
charge to young men who visit our rooms out ofemployment. During 
the year 2,450 letters have been written. The Secretary has received 
996 letters on Association work, and has written 1,272. Churches 
in the city have sent to us for pulpit supplies, and 18 appointments 
have been filled by our members. Amongst the number of young 


17 


men whom we have met at our services, and who have become 
intcrested in their spiritual welfare, we have introduced 72 to the 
various churches to which they had preference. 


FREE READING ROOM. 


During the Winter, when so many are out of employment, we 
find it difficult to keep our Rooms clear of that class which have “ no. 
stated lodging place,” but are literally pilgrims and strangers here 
upon the earth, and go into any open door for shelter. Some of 
this class are deserving, but the great majority are not, and how to 
deal with them has always been a difficult problem. To turn them 
out in the cold is unchristian, and does not seem compatible with 
our work of trying to rescue the lost and fallen ones, and to allow 
them to remain, drives away from us the very class we seek to 
benefit. Last December, through the efforts of Mr. N. O. Greene, 
a room was secured in Perry’s building, which was heated and. 
supplied with papers and magazines. Mr. William Tose was engaged 
to take charge, and this Room was thrown open to this class. It 
completely relieved us from any further embarrassment, ‘and proved 
to be the remedy which we had long sought for. It was continued 
until April, with an average daily attendance of 200. Meetings were 
held every afternoon from 3 to 4, and many of these men seemed 
truly grateful for the shelter and privileges thus afforded them. 


We very much regret the loss we have sustained, during the 
year, of two of our most active workers; but, while lost to us, they 
have simply been transferred to other parts of the field; and we 
cannot help thinking of the honor which has been conferred upon 
our Association in calling Mr. W. J. B. Patterson, who has, for 
many years, been one of our faithful workers, to the responsible 
position of Secretary of the Liverpool Young Men’s Christian 
Association. On his departure, in July last, to enter upon the 
position he had been called upon to fill, he was presented by the 
members with a very handsome illuminated album, containing a 
beautifully engrossed address, together with the photographs of 
all the officers and members of the General Committee and the 
signatures of a large number of the members. He has the earnest 
prayers of the brethren in the difficult work he has undertaken. 

Mr. J. C. Robinson, also a member of the General Committee 
and a faithful Chairman of our Invitation Committee, was com- 
pelled to leave the city on account of ill health, and has since settled 


c 


18 


in Sarnia, where he is as actively engaged as ever in the Y.M.C.A. 
work, — 

In return for these losses, we have had a most valuable addition 
to our ranks in the coming amongst us of Mr. George Hague, of ie 


_Toronto, who has, for many years, devoted much of his time and 


means to the advancement of the work of Young Men’s Christian 
Associations ; and to him, as Chairman of the Exccutive Committee, 
is largely due the establishment and continuance of these Associa- 
tions throughout the towns of Ontario. 


In the foregoing pages, we have detailed the work as carried on 
under the various departments. We cannot report the daily routine 
of work at the Rooms, which is as varied as the wants of the 
hundreds of young men who eall on the Secretary for counsel and 
advice. Many a young man, who has grown sad and weary, being 
unable to find any employment and having no friends in this large 
city, has received encouragement and taken heart to try again; 
many who have been battling against the world, the flesh and the 
Devil, and have fallen underneath his power, have received comfort 
and strength, and have gone forth again, directed to look to Jesus, 
who alone “is able to keep us from falling ;” and, oh, how many 
have come! (we regret their number has been so large) who are 
utterly helpless, bound hand and foot by the enemy, whose voice 
they have followed, and who has gilded the way until they are 
within his powerful grasp, and now he laughs at all their efforts to 
escape. or these we could do nothing, but call upon the “ Son of 
God, who was manifested to destroy the works of the Devil,” to put 
forth His mighty power and cast out this destroyer of human souls, 
To estimate the results is quite impossible. The living testimony 
of those who have been “ clothed and are now in their right mind,” 
which those engaged in the work have been constantly permitted to 
hear, and the benediction of mothers and fathers, which have been 
freely bestowed upon the Association in return for having these 
sons restored to them again, has been sufficient to assure the workers 
that their labor has been accepted, and to encourage them to press 
forward and make every effort for the rescue of thejr fellow young 
men in this city, ‘ eagerly redeeming the time, knowing that the 
days are evil.”’ | 


T. JAMES CLAXTON, D. A. BUDGE, 


President. Secretary. 


o> 
re 


SooUsIoJoX YsTuIN} UBD OYM ATWO asoy} I9]s159y - 


‘SOOTAIBS B1]X9 IO [eIoads Surpnypour jou ‘UoHeIDOSsY 9Y} JO y10M Areurps0 OY} JO JUaaze}s v Ajdurts st Age oY], 


zZ eo eye oe See eee ee ee keels a6 & We & ote as te oe Pee ee ee poe ee sayoiny SNOLIVA 9Y} 0} peonpoxqut usut Suno x jo s 
gI ES 28 Pe are gee ene eae SN A So et gS IERS elt mo Salad dm WE asc at ea ees “sroquiayy 4q paryddns soorarag ytdyng jo zoqumnyy 
7 oe ee ee rar ie oe oes Sh ees ee poystuiny sadojaauq pue rodeg—s1oyst,, fq wooy Surpvoy UI Ud} si9yo] 
b98 C12 Pelhe Meese 0.4 Bik eos AAS cn eT ees ee ere TO ne ee See Tent eesseeesersssss s+ AreIqry JO NO uaye} souINjo A 
SI <P Res 4800 5 Soe got pce Eb awe S ob eke Tew ees CUTE anes eeeceseeesssssssasnor Surpreog 0} payoomp uayy Sano x 
zlz‘r ccc Leese ectevreceves Wi rhe ee Bead edd ci Rak a ee er ee Ae oa Ud}TIM ,, be te 
966 i a wes» taal we ee ee NE ae Re LR ee Fe — ee 9 aint hte Ae a ee "* ++ £reja199¢ hq PAAToIoI YOM UOI}VIOOSSW UO sI9}}9'] 
LS + ae lp Sa ne Viele pa We ee wk eRe os AEP ZESN SS ree he ae oy ee oe PROORV MLM iitigpessteeritc2 2 pamqermionmnate 
z6I gee ge enelete Se ee ee ee ee |e by a Rang agk deus 2) un Geri am ee ee > a Peay eee 


juoutkodurg 107 pasoystSo1 suorjvorddy, 
oop ‘of **** +++ suorezauy pue sdijg jedson Surynqiystp ‘SUOO[RS pAvI]]Ig pue sjajozy rediourid ay} Ayyaom HSIA 99}}IUIWOD UOTR}IAUT 
“STOTTES 9} 0} poynqiyjstp orev ‘sasensuyy snouea ut ‘syovry. pue siodeg pure ‘Surusout Aepung Araaa payista are 1oqivyy ur sdrys [pw 


O00°SI "ODP Re ter kee poi es A SRST US TE? SOE 3m) 3SSn0ure PeNLjsIp soulzesvyy pur siodeg poeyerjsn{[] Jo raquinyy 
O99. 80's POL Bhs ns ciewie.e Sine airs wb eg he ee le ee Mla area vias Midrecet hate, *SUOLIEIS OILY 0} SYISTA SIONAINISICY JOVI 
zgb Lie aek ee eS Tee eee ae. © teas. ee tee. Pate $2 © AM ead aGhe. oe tates oth Le ty Ree ee ee 4 ‘+ ***a8parg *souvseduray, 0} samyeuSig 
008 ‘I CO eae Mae pe ae Ye ey eee a ne Oz a OI RE, at ea te a * *SSuTII I] souvssduray [adsory - a 
ogl a8 eg) B96 hese wok eae» Nee = zs soereeesees**Teydsopy Tersuey) ur ,, = Pe ~: re 
O11 ‘g 2 SS ga Saree © ele 8. & 4 se ee ve Pe P61 cece ee "Udy suno x IOJ Ajaatsnjoxa * es 8 me a 
196‘E ae es. 4,,€ Vata am guia taala ai, Ae esi © ns ZQI "ees -Surpring UOI}vIOOSsy apis}no a fe a ss “3 
WORSE St past bent te cs aoepaaae [B10], obg Bar ety tt +s SOE eu. ai PlPy ssunsspy SNOISI[DYY Iepnsay Jo Jaquin xy 
Oe oe tt tee ete 8 re He OR Aas 2 Re eS ee eee Surpnyour you)—Arviqry pue WooYy Ssurprey ut 9oULpUdI}}e pa}eVUysy 
£Q9 CCS NINES one aie ari ceemntinapcare a eee ices nacacor oe et ae ee och Be RAs a 


LINAWALVLS 1VOILSILVILS 


“LaANSDIA J, 


“SLOJION NI 


MAAINOS ‘a ‘f 


Zl L6OL‘S$ 


SL £6b 
16, £08 


Ce € One © 6 cs. @ ¢ 249s: © 0.6) Ct 6 of's 


Mis SUOT]USAUO’7) 
POLI: ace Weise obaaa re ae "* qunovy puny SuIping 


}So19}UT 
mBars-/ebtbewe eS YS ah ee solipuns pue Suruvat) 
oD oe oe os ee him we eles & sireday pue oIN}IUIN J 


re JOUBINSUT 
os © S744 £4 464 8 OS, dare BF dP KR (A402 ud 0 are, © i. Co [voy 
me @ 2.6 ». onl» ie o@ Se oe. £456 © £4 es @ 2's 2 2 £22 SOXVT 


rrtteeees gen 
"* SUISILIIADY 


REP OD PAE BOGS we EP eee Le © « o 66 ee 6 6 


eae eee ge ee ‘ S[BOIpOLlag pue siodedsma yy 


SINAWAVd 


es LOLSg 


—_——. 


| 


‘SANOL ‘O ‘L 
OLLAG ‘DO ‘M 


Li gzbg 


‘91109 puNo} pue pourmex| 


eee sels a ALS 6.4.00 8S B84 oOo. 2 


"LLQ1 ‘1aquisoaq ys1£ “IVAULNOW 


"et" * "39035 sAuedurog ser) uo puapraicq 
eres o6 been eo ete fer aqedeg ‘siyic 
"t's" **sradeq jo ares 
sores puny Jusjoasuag 
"***suorsstutuiog ydeisaza 7, 
Nat ET Ths gees * y+ een ne soto go amane 


"** "TVET Jo jusy 
Se ee et ae nee ees 


a» @ @ © 8 


tts ssog diysiaquiayy pure suondiuosqng 
“"* 9lgr ‘aquiasaq, ys1£ puvy uo soured 


‘SIdIdOaa 


YAGWNAOAC Ist® ONIGNA UVAA THL UOA LNAWALVLS TVIONVNIT 
UMOYRIOSS YY URYSMYD slayer Sunog prayuoyr 


LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS TO ‘Y.M.C. «A: 


21 


for Year ending October 3151, 


Angus, Wm.. .. $25 
Angus,. R. B .. sane. 20 
Adams, Capt. R.C.. 
Ayer, A. A. & Co..... ig 
Ames, Holden & Co... 10 
Anderson, RUT Biv: 10 
Acton, Robt Sane es 5 
Ault, Chas, ee 5 
Armstrong, GOO ce 2 
Bank of Toronto...... 50 
Botterell, J. 11........ Io 
Burton, PR ues Io 
Barry & Campbell..... Io 
Bissett, James........ be) 
Bentley, Davids <.sues Io 
Bishop, George. ...... 10 
Brown, (G vcieeeraite Io 
Buchanan, Harold.... 5 
Black & Locke.. ...... 5 
Botterell, FH. ais 5 
Brissette, M. H....... 5 
matin; Dr. Jo A. ss 5 
Buchanan, H. W..... 5 
Black, Lewis S....... 3 
Brown, Jas. & Bro.... 2 
Beds Dest o8) x 80 pine 2 
Claxton, T. James....250 
fe eS ee 50 
Court, James....;.«.. 50 
Crathern & Caverhill.. 25 
ake ag Bk. of Can. 25 
omg aa Peo sus cb adios 20 
Craig, T '» (1876). nant, 2 20 
Seb sana IO 
Currie & Co.,W.& F.P. 10 
Crawford, Robt. ...... 10 
Cantlie, Ewan & oe Ke) 
Campbell, &. Io 
Cushing, toa. oe. be) 
Regen. 7, TEs, nica 5 
Childs, Geo.. 5 
Cooper, Fairman & Co. 5 
Corristine, Bf 5 
ON Se . 5 
Court, W. xs 5 
Corse, ae : 5 
Caldecott, A 5 
Cassils & & Stimpson. ie 
Cash .. + 2 
Re args ayes eee I 


Cameron, Mackenzie 
Co 


ee eee sw eene 


I 
I 
I 
) 
° 


Campbell, ue W. ML D. 2 
Cayford, 1. cuss 5 
Cummings, A. rs sSeh aie 5 
Childs, Chas..... cae 


oo 


Cushing & Co...... .. 5 
Cleghorn, J. P........ 5 
Dunn, R & Co.. 25 
Dun, Wiman & Co.. 25 
Duncan, John... 52 ora 
Dobbin, EY cos 7 
Dougall, Pe Ke tas cdr 
Darling, W.& = Co. roan & 
Douglas, A.. Pocus 
Denson Wi. ie ks See 3' 5 
Date, John .. 


Dougall, as & Son... 


Ewing, S. H. & A. S$. ie 
Evans, Edward....... Io 
Evans, RP See 
EWE Ws. icc donors 5 
Eveleigh, Joseph...... 5 
FEVER PWM 50.5045 % >< 5 
Elliott, Phillips & Co.. 5 
Evans Bros........... 5 
Fair, John.. sO 
Pipers, A... «090 5 
Fish, Shepherd & Co.. 5 
Fulton, WOM oie s ss. 45 2 
Greene, Sy 50 
Greene, SOOA;. . 2 5x5 30 
Gault Bros. i: 25 
Greenshields, D. J.... 10 
Garth, Chas. & Co.... 10 
Graham & Co. (Star)... 25 
i tareg@e. WR oie os 5 
Glover, fe ea hf 5 
Gurney, E. H.& Co.. 5 
Gould, J. & Son.. 5 
Grindley, | AME | aoa eae 
Hodgson, A. & aren tee 
Hague, Geo.. . 60 
Hall, Min @s.35. 3c 50 
> pellieirh elle ia 25 
Heney & Lacroix..... 15 
ee a Oe eam Io 
Hamilton & Massey... 5 
Henderson, W.. oe 
Henry & Wilson. shih e 5 
Holland, R. H.. te 
Haultain, NS Se 5 
Hutton, Jas. & Co.. 5 
Hall, Kay O's in 5 
Henderson, T. M.. 
Henderson, i. ae 4 
Hadrill, its 5 es. «: 5 
Hartt, eee 2 
TPWIR, ROU. 5c once dese : 
Irish, ?. es 
Jack. James, & Co.. 3 . 
Johnstone, Jas., & Co. 20 
Jamieson, R. C....... 15 
Jones, R. A. A.. - Io 
JONMED, Bil cies ence 5 


0Oo 
ele) 
fele) 
Lele) 


oo 
0O 


oo 
Lele) 


1877. 


Judge, Edgar... ! 
Johnston, Will, gost 
Kennedy, J.. ee 
King, Warden........ 
Kemp, Geo........... 
Learmont, J. B....... 
Lyman, Mrs. H....... 
Lonsdale, Pa Ray , 
Lanskail, * Ag See 
Leggatt, fe raed 
Laing, M. ‘o 
Lord, Magor & Munn. 
Leeming, POR sachs 
Molsons Bank 
AD 
Murphy, John & Co. 
Mackay, Bros........ 
Moseley, EB. V.......; 
Morton, Phillips & 
Bulmer......... 
Moss, Geo. W.. 
Mills & Hutchison. . 
Mathewson, J. A. 
MacMaster, W. Je: Pax 
Miller, Robt.. ‘ 


PEON Bie os aie dec’ 
Mathewson, H. & Co. 
May, Thomas = C6; 

Mackedie, J. W. & Co. 
Munro, Hector. Apa re eo 
A 


ereeee eeesee 


Hea Mrs. J. 
McLean & Co. m 
McInnes D. & Ca. rectre 
McDougall, eres 
McFarlane, D.. 
McGibbon & Baird . 
McLaren, Wm. & Co.. 
Morton, Charles cLawe ¢ 
Nelson, H. A. & Son.. 
Notman, W 
Oliver, R, - STE eee, 
Packard, LH. & Co. 
Popham, Jee a Les 
Patterson, W. ac 
Paton, Laird . 


ee ee eesecee 


15 
a 


888883888 


Lele) 


nonvnw 


8§§88888 


fele) 


8§888888888 


22 


SUBSCRIPTIONS—( Continued). 


Prowse, Bros. ....... 5 09| Shepherd R. W. ...... 100 00 

“ * (1876.).s. 5 00| Spence, Alex....... IO 00 
Patton, Richard ...... 4 00} Scholes, F.. chéeae 80-20 
gg aa. 2 oo | Stephen, Geo.. , I0 00 
Patton, Thomas ...... 5 oo | Shaw, Bro. & Cassills . I0 00 
Phillips, C. S. J ...... 5 00] Simpson, W........ Io 00 
Rankin & Beattie..... 30 oo | Stirling John....... 10 00 
Robertsons, Linton&Co 10 oo | Shorey H ...... .... 10 00 
Richardson, James... 10 00} Savage, A. & Son .... 10 00 
mead, (5. Ws. ees ones 10 00 | Snowdon, C. C. & Co. 5 00 
Richards, J........... 10 00 | Sanborn, Hon. Judge. 5 00 
Reford, Robt..... “ers TO 00 Sumner, Geo....... 5 00 
Robinson; J. Ci.+..45 5 00 | Samuels, W....... 3 00 
Robertson, Ses 5 00} Stephen, F. & Co 5 00 
RRO Rs iv chias Access 5 00 | Stephens, J. F 5 00 
Rae, Jackson. o.i./..995'00 | Seath, A.....04 00. 5 00 
Robertson, Thos...... 5 00 | Savage, Lyman & Co. 5 00 
PE SITAY, J seis n-0shy he & 60; |-Scriver, . J. Fisk) 2). 5 00 
Ramsay, A. <.calsehl. 5 00 | Spence, R. W..... 5 00 
Reed,.Wm......% yeh it.6o! Simpson, HH... os.3i, 2 00 
Ritchie, John ........ 3 00] Stevenson, J. R....... 200 
Robertson John ...... I 00 


Schneider, T. H. & Co 5 


pene WA bi ivee savass 


5 
Torrance, Hon. Judge 10 00 


a Pompeo) FF oy oan 
cy) et eee ae 
Taylor, James G...... 
eestes, Fe WV Leeda od 
Taylor, Ws. J ices cos os 
Vinod, Lic: Bss4 ores 2 


Wilson, Walter & Co. 


Wilkes, oe ee 
Watson, Hugh ....... 
Winks, Geo. & Co.. 


Whitham, James... UL. 
White James.. b nad 
Whittey,. Pui) 398. .¢ 


Williamson, Jas. & Co. 
Wo HH... 


Yuile, W. & D........ 


15 00 


