MONTREAL 


YUUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION. 


ANNUAL REPORT 


TUESDAY EVENING, Nov. 27TH, 1883. 


MONTREAL : 
‘* WITNESS ” PRINTING HOUSE, 35 AND 37 ST. JAMES STREET WEST.. 


1884. 


LIST OF OFFICERS AND COMMITTEE 


GEO. HAGUE. 


L. H. PACKARD. 


T. JAMES CLAXTON. 
JOHN MURPHY. 
D. BENTLEY. 

R. H. HOLLAND. 
D. W. ROSS. 

R. HENDERSON. 
W. PAUL. 

A. KINGMAN. 

D. MORRICE. 

R. H. BUCHANAN. 
W. G. BROWN. 
J.T. DONALD. 


T. JAMES CLAXTON. 
A. A. AYER. 

CHAS. ALEXANDER. 
HENRY LYMAN. 
Dr. BAZIN. 


For 1884. 


qiresident : 


J. MURRAY SMITH. 


Vice-Dresidents 


DR. KELLEY. 
J. J. MACLAREN. 


Grensurer : 


J. S. McLACHLAN. 


Secretary : 
D. A. BUDGE. 


Assistant Secretary : 


GUS. A. KUHRING. 


Committee : 


T. B. BROWN. 
JNO. KENNEDY. 
WM. SLOAN. 

J.S. BUCHAN. 

H. J. MUDGE. 
WARDEN KING. 
H. L. PUTNAM. 
W. BELL DAWSON. 
WM. TEES. 

A.D. LANSKAIL. 
CHAS. CUSHING. 
GEO. LAMB. 


Board of Directors : 


J. TORRANCE. 
GEO. YOUNG. 


» D. MORRICE, 


L. PATON. 


F, FAIRMAN. 
ROBT. SMITH. 
J.B. PICKEN. 

H. W. BUCHANAN. 
H. O. WILSON. 
FRED. MEYERS. 
F, GAZELEY. 

J. L. CARSON. 

A. MORE. 

CHAS. MARTIN. 
R. C. BREWER. 


D. W. ROSS. 

R. IRWIN. 

E. F. AMES. 

E. K. GREENE. 
W. REID. 


STANDING 


H. PACKARD. 
S. McLACHLAN, 
JAS. CLAXTON. 


L. 
J. 
J 
W.G. Brown, 


ALEX. CRAIG. 
T. B. Brown. 
F,. GAZELEY. 

A. KINGMAN, 


A. KINGMAN, 
CuaAS. MORTON. 
JOHN KENNEDY. 


HENDERSON. 
H. BucHANAN, 


J. L. Carson. 
W. DowstLey. 
W. K. GRAFFTEY. 


R. W. McLAcHrian. 
C. T. WILLIAMS. 
WELLINGTON DIXON. 


COMMITTEES FOR 1883-84, 


Hinanee : 


WARDEN KING, Chairman. 


Dr. Bazin. 

J. M. M. Durr. 
F. W. FAIRMAN. 
Wma. HENDERSON, 


Debotional : 


J. B. Picken, 
Wm. TEES. 
Rost. LoGiz, 


R. H. HoLtiann, Chairman. 


HENRY MorrTOn. Hueu Kine. 


R. C. BREWER. Wm. C. PALMER. 
H. W. BucHANan. ALEX. ROBERTSON. 
D. W. Ross. ALEX. McFARLANE, 


Gducationnl : 


Dr. F. W. KELLEY, Chairman, 


J. J. MACLAREN. 
GEO. HAGUE. 

C. CUSHING. 
J.T, DONALD, 


D, BENTLEY. 
JOHN MURPHY. 
WARDEN KING. 


Nission : 

D. A. Buber, Chairman, 

J. DUMARESQ. Wo. SLOAN. 

W. B. Dawson. P. SINCLAIR, 
JOHN LOUSON. R. SMITH, 
FrReD. MEYERS, A. G. WIGHTMAN. 
H. L. Putnam. A. M. Cromsiz, 
Gro. LAMB 

Membership : 

WALTER PAUL, Chairman, 

Jno. McD. HAINES. Ww, KIna. 

J. H. McConneE Lt. Wo. TEES. 
ALEX. D. LANSKAIL. G. A. KUHRING, 


Rooms and Tibrarp : 


Dr. F. W. KELLEY, Chairman. 


F. W. FArIrRMAN. H. J. MupcGe 
J.T. DONALD. G. A. KUHRING 
H, L. Purnam. 


Cuas. H. Martin. 


Ww. F. Castie. 
Ww». Law. 

J. DUMARESQ. 
W. OUTHWAITE. 


ALLAN McFARLANE. 


J.S. BucHAN., 
CHAS. CUSHING. 
H. J. Haaue. 


JOHN MILLAR. 


JNO. LOUSON. 


Wu. CAMERON. 
JAS. REA. 
JOHN OHLING. 
Wm. SLOAN. 

F. HouMan. 


F. W. FAIRMAN. 


J. IVINSON. 


W. E. CaBue. 


J. H. Epwarns. 


Reception : 


J. B. Picken, Chairman. 


THOS. DAVIDSON. 
ALFRED GRIFFITH. 


Wm. CABLE. 
A. W. BIrRnie. 


B. W. Griae. KE. PercivaL Heaton. 
A. M. Narrn. GEO. W. JONES. 

C. C. HoLuanp. Ep. D. Bevirt. 

R. S. Ross. P. SINcLAIR. 


College Students : 


J. J. MacLaren, Chairman. 


Dr. KELLEY. 
W. M. Donaxp. 
WELLINGTON DIxon. 


E. H. Buackaper. 
W. A. CARLYLE. 


Employment : 
Ww. TEES, Chairman. 


R. D. MAacrPHERSON. CHAS. SALSBURY. 


Visitation : 


Wm. Brett Dawson, Chairman. 


Capt. ROBERTSON. 
R. Smirx. 


C. E: Ray. 


anbitation : 


ALEX. D. LAnsKatn, Chairman. 


HENRY CREED. ALEX. More. 


ARTHUR DUNN. Ep. Marsa. 
J. H. Epwarps. R. McMorrrir. 
H. HEvUBNER. Jos. Locke. 


JNO. HELLIWELL. ALEX. McFARLANE., 


Railoap Committee : 


JOHN KENNEPY, Chairman. 
N. McLennan. Cuas. SALSBURY. 


G. A. Kunrina. 


Boarding House Committee : 


F. GAzEeLey, Chairman. 


JAS. GOODFELLOW. 
R. GALLAGHER. 
FRANK M. Pray. 


F. HoLMAn. 
R. H. Marruews. 


THIRTY-SECOND ANNUAL REPORT. 


We cannot begin to recall the events of the past year without 
thanking God for the privileges granted, through the varied avenues 
of this Association’s work, to the thousands of young men who have 
come within its reach. Its comfortable rooms have afforded a shelter 
to many a tempted one ; its social prayer meetings have cheered and 
refreshed hundreds of God’s children, and have been “a word in 
season” to many a weary, sin-burdened soul; its Bible Classes have 
shown not a few that the only way to cleanse the life was by 
“taking heed thereto according to thy word”; its Educational 
Classes and Lectures have enabled many with limited means to 
preserve and develop the talents God has given them; and its 
well-filled Library has not only whiled away many an otherwise 
lonely hour, but it has delighted the mind, educated the taste, and 
excited a loftier energy and‘ambition, which will doubtless give tone 
and direction to the life in years to come. 

We wish it distinctly understood that our chief aim is the 
conversion of young men to God, and encouraging and directing 
them in their Christian life and service. 

When it is remembered that 1,065 religious services under the 
dire_tion of the Association have been conducted during the year, 
and these almost entirely for young men, and that 140 educational 
classes and lectures have been held, it will be seen how far-reaching 
the work must have been. And the effect upon the many members 
who have been voluntarily engaged in this work, is almost as 
important a fact as the influence upon those whose benefit has been 
sought. 

The Building is altogether too small for the present uses of the 
Association. We specially need a Members’ Private Parlor; we need 
a meeting room capable of seating 150, apart from the Reading 
Room ; we need two well arranged and equipped class rooms. These 
would simply meet our present pressing needs and enable more work 
to be done and with greater satisfaction. We hope that before 
another Annual Meeting these needs may be supplied. 


6 


Each year we are endeavoring to make our work more definite 
on behalf of youne men, and have sought to emphasize three points : 
“religious,” “ educational ” and “ social.” 

From the position of our City as a seaport, a very large share of 
the daily work in the Building is occupied in extending a welcome 
and offering counsel to young men coming from Great Britain. A 
superior class of young men have come out of late, but as oppor- 
tunities in Montreal are so limited, only a small percentage remain 
here, so that this Association acts as a missionary agency in intro- 
ducing them to Western Associations. The extent of this work 
interferes with the supervision and careful thought which should be 
given to our own membership. This we feel to be a serious defect, 
as our responsibility is great in the interests and care which our 
individual members should receive at our hands. 


CORRESPONDENCE.—There has been an average of 250 letters per 
month written on the Association business. Relatives and friends 
write us daily concerning the welfare of young men. We copy a few 
to illustrate this important department :— 


Sr. Joun, N. B. 
D. A. Buper, Srorerary, 


Dear Str,—I am glad you have got Willie something to do, and as he is able 


to fill a more important position, I trust it will not be long before he obtains a 
better place. I thank you specially for your kind interest in his spiritual welfare, 
and can only pray that he may be led, ere long, to the foot of the Cross. Please 
advise him as to regular attendance at Church and Sabbath-school. 


Lonpon, ENG. 
To THE SECRETARY. 
Dear St1r,—I just learn this morning that my son is in a Hospital in Mont- 
real, lying very ill. Will you kindly visit him. My prayer is that he may be 
saved. 


This young man had been visited and cared for by our members 
several weeks before this letter came to hand. 


Hauirax, N. S., Feb. 13th, 1883. 
To THE SECRETARY, 


Dear S1r,—I learn from my son that your Association is again evincing an 
interest in his welfare ; and have aided him in returning to his much offended 
Heavenly Father. Of course, I rejoice with trembling, and pray that the Holy 
Spirit may perfect the work in his life, &c. 


Ee 


—_—— 


ie se 


7 


The following extract is from a letter received within the past 
month from this son, whose “conversion” occurred at that time. 


B—— , N.S., Wor. 17th, 1883. 
Dear Mr. BUDGE. 

I was glad to hear from you, and to tell you of the results in my life. I have, 
indeed, been blessed during the year, and now it seems strange that I have been 
so long in finding out the only way of life worth living, viz.:—faith in and 
dependance upon the Lord Jesus Christ. Mine seemed to be a hopeless case, as I 
had signed pledges, as you know, without avail, but one Saturday evening, while 
attending your meeting, I heard a gentleman state that the only power he had 
found to deliver him was the grace of God coming into the life through a total 
surrender to Jesus Christ. This I determined to do, and now, with me, old 
things have passed away. 


GLascow, May 23, 1883. 
Mr. D. A. Bupesr, 


My Dear Srr,—My son has written me to say that you have obtained a 
situation for my other boy. I now hasten to thank you for your kindness in 
taking such a charge and interest in my boys. May God reward you and your 
Association for all your good towards them, and may they be able to repay you. 
It is many years since they have known a father’s care, but God tells us that He 
will not forsake the widow or orphan, and His promise has been true to us all 
these years. My thoughts and prayers are that God’s blessing may attend 
your work. 


Sincerely yours, 

The task of following up “ Enquirers,” who have been interested 
in Spiritual matters, is a most difficult one to accomplish. Seventy- 
two have been introduced by letter to city pastors, or members of the 
churches they professed to attend. By personal letters and through 
the various meetings, it has been sought to follow up the work, and 
while we do not estimate numbers, we have the knowledge of many 
who have become children of God and joined the church. 


Peksonat Inrervisws.—One of the great purposes of the 
Association is to counsel and advise with young men in difficulty and 
trouble. Three hundred and seventy-eight have called voluntarily at 
the Secretary’s office to sign the pledge during the year. This affords. 
an opportunity for personal counsel and prayer, and as a result many 


instances might be given like the following: 
November 19, 1883.. 
D. A. Bupee, 

Dear Sir,-—You will see by this that I have regained my former position.. 
Believe me I am truly grateful, and I sincerely thank God for directing my steps: | 
to your office on that day. I have awakened from the lethargy of my former life,. 
and found that peace which is only obtained through faith in the Lord Jesus. 
Christ. 


Sincerely yours, 


8 


Week or PrayEr.—This second Week of Prayer was observed 


by special meetings each evening. Sermons were preached in many 
of the City churches. 


Departures.—In May last Mr. F. Lonsdale, who was engaged 
in the Railway work here, was called to the position of Secretary at 
at Hamilton, Ont. We are glad to know that he has done good work 
at this point, and that the Association has become established on a 
more permanent basis. 

In September Mr. Guo. E. Winutams, one of our active workers, 
and a member of our General Committee, was called to the Secretary- 
ship of the Peterborough Association. Ata farewell gathering, on the 
11th Sept., the “ workers” met to bid him God-speed. From letters 
received, we believe that he is developing the work at this point. 

Through business changes we have lost a number of our active 
workers. These are difficult to replace. 


ConvEeNtTIONS.—This Association was represented at the Interna- 
tional Convention in Milwaukee, in May last, by Messrs. Geo. E. 
Williams, R. Irwin, D. A. Budge and G. A. Kuhring. 


Tue Montuty Recorp.—This has been published in an enlarged 
form since March last—five pages of reading matter, and three with 
advertisements. We circulate 1,500 copies per month, mailing them 
to subscribers and members. The cost to the Association, including 
postage, is $10 per month. It serves as a medium for advertising 
our general work, and doubtless it influences those who cannot attend 
personally. We have many instances where its messages have been 
blessed. While considerable time is occupied in its issue, there is 
ample return in the general interest which is created, and the increased 
attendance at our various meetings. Contributions from our members 
concerning any matter of interest in Christian work amongst young 
men will be welcome. The names and addresses of young men to 
whom you would like the Record sent, will receive attention. 

Next May the “ Secretaries’ Conference” will be held in this 
city. This conference will consist of about 300 representatives from 
the various associations on this continent, and will continue during 
five days. It will be an important gathering in its influence upon 
the work in this country. 


CoLLeGE StupENnTs.—Through the Special Committee of the Asso- 
clation and students combined, work has been or canized amongst this 


9 


class. It has been found that between 500 and 600 students are in 
attendance at the McGill Medical, Arts and Science and Bishop’s 
Medical Colleges. A systematic effort has been made to introduce 
them to the various churches of their choice. A Sunday afternoon 
religious meeting has been organized, conducted by themselves, and 
they have been invited specially to the free use of the Reading Room 
and Library. The importance of this branch of our work is second to 
none, and its requires the thoughtful consideration of the Committee. 

There has been a want in our Association in the link which 
should bind the Governing Committee to the membership, as regards 
the business transacted from month to month. To supply this need, 
an Association meeting has been established on the seccnd Thursday of 
each month, of a social character. The object is to inform our mem- 
bership of the general work—giving a short summary of the proceed- 
ings of the Committee—and seek to interest and engage them more 
actively in some branch, as well as meet them in this social way. 

We cannot conclude without referring to the promised visit of 
Mr. John Currie in January, 1884, God has greatly honored him in 
Evangelistic work in Chicago and on the Pacific Coast, and we trust 
that his visit here will lead to the conversion of many souls. 

In the prosecution of all this varied work there have been many 
failures, but when we see such marked signs of God’s approval and 
blessing, we are humbled in His presence ; let our workers consecrate 
their lives to His service, remembering that sINcERITY and REALITY are 
_the qualities called for at the present time. Doubt and scepticism 
amongst young men can only be met by the earnest and faithful 
testimony in the walk and life of every believing child of God. 


D. A. BUDGE, 


Secretary. 


10 


DEVOTIONAL COMMITTEE. 


This Committee has charge of all the religious meetings held in 
the building. Its work is so divided that one member becomes 
responsible for each meeting reporting monthly to the Chairman 
regarding attendance, suggestions, etc. We append a statement show- 
ing the number of meetings held, with the average and total atten- 
dance. We are glad to report the prominence given to Bible study, 
—no less than THREE cLassEs for young men are held weekly through- 
out the year. This indicates permanency and strength in the develop- 
ment of Christian life and service. We sincerely thank God for the 
continued spiritual interest which prevails and for the blessing 
which has refreshed so many lives. Special meetings were held for 
young men for three weeks in April last. The services on ‘ Xmas,” 
“New Year’s,” “ Good Friday” and “ Thanksgiving Day” are looked 
for as unusual seasons of spiritual refreshing. We regard the 

SATURDAY EVENING MEETING | 
as aspecial feature. Thrrough the efforts of the Invitation Committee 
and the attractiveness of the meeting itself, the attendance is often 
over 100 young men. Topics are assigned and it is conducted by 
different members. Short addresses and good singing add to its 
interest. This meeting is crowded with incidents where young men 
are arrested by the power of the Word of God, and led to a decision. 


Many letters could be given as follows : | 


Nov 24th, 1883. 
DEAR Mr. Bunae. 


I write to let you know how I am getting on in this Christian life. Sometimes 
I have doubts, but they always disappear through reading a portion of God’s Word 
and prayer. I want to do something in God’s service. if you can direct me. I 
shall always remember the good which has come into my life through going to the 
Young Men’s Christian Association, and I continue to pray that many, like 
myself, may be blessed through the influence of your work. 
Yours sincerely, 
‘ J. H. E. 
The following is from a Pastor in England : 
A———, Sept 7th, 1883. 
To THE SECRETARY. 
DeEAR S1r,—I understand from my young friend H. B. that, through your 
meetings, he has been led nearer to his God and to the feet of Our Saviour. I 


ee 


1] 


doubt not but the seed was sown before, for he was a hearer of the word, but it 
did not at once spring up. Thank God the Gospel has now become to him more 
than a promise, the seed has brought forth fruit unto eternal life. As one who, in 
the case of this young man, shares with you the joy of seeing him saved, I write to 
rejoice with you. The Lord make your Association increasingly useful. 

Sincerely yours, 


Cc. W. 


THE NOONDAY PRAYER MEETING 
has continued daily throughout the year. The average attendance has 
been 18. While the attendance is small, the importance of the meeting 
is great, and has been a means of development in Christian life to not 
afew. We continue to urge it upon our members who feel desirous 
to seek “daily supplies for daily need” even if they can only be 
present once a week, and that for 15 minutes. The cases presented 
for prayer are full of interest, and give life and tone to the meeting. 
Miss Fanny White has been most faithful in leading the service of 
song. | 

SUNDAY MORNING BIBLE CLASS. 

This class is conducted by Mr. G. A. Kuhring, Assistant Secre- 
tary, and has an average attendance of 17. It is especially for enquirers 
and young Christians; and many have been strengthened in their 
Christian life, and are being educated to take a part in the public 
services. Strangers are constantly met with at this meeting and 
directed to various churches. 


The need of such a class as this is apparent, there being those 
interested at the various meetings, who receive the Word, but require 
the assistance which this class affords, that Satan may not take away 
the good seed, but that it may bring forth fruit unto eternal life. 


SUNDAY AFTERNOON BIBLE STUDY. 


This class has beén taught by the Secretary. It has been entirely 
for young men. The lessons for part of the year have been taken 
from the International Scheme, and for the past three months from 
Our Lord’s miracles. The average attendance has been 56. It is 
“conversational” in its conduct and character, and has afforded many 
instances of young men who have been blessed. Five have gone out 
as Sabbath School Teachers during the year. This class is entirely 
EVANGELISTIC in its character, and the only aim is to present the 
Gospel in these Bible studies, so that young men may be won into the 
fold of Christ. 


12 


TUESDAY EVENING BIBLE CLASS. 


The Tuesday evening Bible Class has been conducted, as in former 
years, by the Rev. Prof. Fenwick, except in the vacation months, when 
his place was occupied by various members of the General Committee. 


The subject of study for the last three years has been the life of 
Our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, and the large attendance—an 
average of 53—and deep interest manifested by the class, which is 
_ largely composed of young men, combine to illustrate the truth of Our 
Saviour’s words, “I, if I be lifted up, will draw all men unto me.” 


It is a very pleasant sight, in these days, to see so many young 
men so deeply interested in this most important of all subjects, and 
there is much reason to thank God that He has, by the power of the 
Holy Ghost, enabled Prof. Fenwick go to gather up, and group together, 
the facts and incidents of the earthly history of Our Lord, as to exhibit 
to the minds and hearts of the students the manifold grace and divine 
perfection of that life “which was with the F ather, and has been 
manifested unto us.” 


And, blessed be God, it has been so manifested that two souls 

have been brought from darkness into light during the present session. 
SATURDAY EVENING TRAINING CLASS. 

This class was resumed on the 18th November and continued 
throughout the winter. It was conducted, as in the previous year, by 
the Rev. Prof. Fenwick ; the object being to train young men in the 
study of the Bible, and to take part in public services. 


Eighteen meetings were held, with an average attendance of 13. 
GOSPEL TEMPERANCE MEETING. 


The Sunday afternoon Gospel Temperance Meeting has been 
held regularly during the year, with an average attendance of 78, 
an increase of 13 over last year. The best temperance literature has 
been distributed, a collection being taken up at each meeting for this 
purpose, amounting to the sum of $83.00. One hundred and fifteen 
signed the pledge at the meetings. 


The plan, adopted last year, of having a definite subject for each — 
meeting and the same chairman for one month, has worked well, 
rendering the meetings more instructive and interesting, and has 
enabled the Committee, by the choice of a subject, to present the 
Gospel as the remedy for this and all other sins. 


13 


We have received valuable assistance in our work from the City 
ministers, 21 having addressed our meetings during the year; we 
were also favoured with the services of Mrs. Youmans, of Ontario, 
and Mr. Forbes, of London, Eng., and Mrs. McLachlan, of Boston. 

We must gratefully acknowledge the valuable work done in 
connection with our meeting by the “ Woman’s Christian Temperance 
Union,” in visiting the families of those who have signed the pledge 
at the meetings, or with the Secretary during the week, and also to 
Miss Barnard for her valuable musical assistance. 

In September last, a circular was sent to each Bible Class teacher 
(as far as known), suggesting that a short paper, not to exceed five 
minutes, on some phase of temperance suitable to the day, be read 
once a month by some member of the class. 

On October 4th, the City Pastors and Superintendents of 
Sunday Schools, were invited to meet the Committee to consider 
‘what methods could be adopted to promote temperance work in our 
City. Tea was served in the Library, Bishop Bond kindly consenting 
to preside. Many valuable suggestions were made by ministers and 
others present, which the Committee hope and pray may bear fruit. 

We acknowledge with grateful hearts, the goodness of God to 
us during the year, and we are encouraged to persevere in this corner 
of His vineyard, being quite confident that the time will soon come 
when this great curse will be swept from the earth, and to His name 


be all the praise. 
THE BOYS’ MEETING 


has been held regularly on Friday evenings throughout the past year, 
with only two exceptions. The total attendance during the year was 
1411, including the entertainment in the Hall, at which over 450 
boys were present 

The attendance has increased considerably during the last two or 
three months, and we are hoping that the recent entertainment 
will bring a still larger number to the meeting. Ttickets were 
sent to nearly all the Sunday Schools in the city, calling special 
attention to that gathering which was a decided success, the 
boys enjoying the musical part of the programme very much. 
A neat Invitation Card, printed specially for the occasion, was 
handed to every boy before leaving, with a promise of a hearty wel- 
come, and many promised they would attend. Twenty-two boys 
have signed the Total Abstinence and Tobacco Pledge during the 


14 


year, making 68 to date. Twenty-eight boys have joined the Children’s 
Scripture Union, against 24 last year, the object being to read God’s 
Word at home, all reading the same portion of Scripture as printed on 
the calendars, being about 15 verses daily. 

The Treasurer, Master Willie Craig, can now report over $5 on 
hand, being contributed by the boys for charitable purposes. Tracts 
have been faithfully distributed at the close of the meetings to the 
boys, and we trust that in this way, not only may the truths that 
they have heard be deepened, but that blessing may be carried to 
their homes through the printed Word. 

Several of the boys during the year have professed to have 
received the Lord Jesus Christ as their Saviour, and some of them 
have given evidences that the work of grace in their hearts has been 
real. Several of the younger boys now take part in prayer and in 
reading of God’s Word, while we feel confident that many of the older 
workers have been strengthened and encouraged. 

George Williams, now Secretary of the Y. M. C. A. at Dokewe 
borough, has assisted us in our work for a year or two, and we were 
very sorry to lose him. Another of our workers, who is now perma- 
nently connected with the work of the Association, was led to accept 
Christ as his Saviour in our Boys’ Meeting. 

A meeting of the Workers is held monthly, when reports are 
received of the number of boys called for, with the results, over eight 
boys were led to attend our meeting in one month, through the efforts 
of one worker by this means. 

Some of our workers have undertaken to have our meetings 
announced in the Sunday Schools they attend, on the first Sunday of 
each month. 

SUNDAY EVENING EVANGELISTIC MEETING. 

This is one of the most interesting and useful meetings held in 
this city. It evidently meets a felt want. 

The average attendance, which is over 400, might have been 
larger if there had been more room in the hall, as numbers have 
frequently had to be turned away from the door. 

The evident interest with which the proclamation of Gospel — 
truth, in its simplest and most direct form, is received, and the fact 
that that proclamation is made for the most part largely in the words 
of Scripture, show that the Word of God is still, as in early times, 
the power which above all others lays hold on the heart and draws 


15 


men to Himself, and that it is by the power of the Spirit of God that 
the work is to be done. 

While it is true that those further advanced in Christian life 
need the strong meat, there can be no question that now, as in old 
times, the pure milk of the Word is the best for beginners, and even 
more so for those who have not yet made a beginning. Our experience 
seems to prove that the masses can be more readily reached and more 
powerfully influenced by those, whether ministers or laymen, who 
will meet them on their own ground. 

The “enquiry ” meeting has been fairly well-attended through- 
out the year, and not unfrequently crowded. Members have from 
time to time sought the prayers of God’s people in this meeting, and 
very often several have remained after its close for conversation. We 
are thankful to believe that not a few have in this way been led to 
the Lamb of God who taketh away the sin of the world. 

One very interesting fact is that a considerable proportion of 
those who have professed to find peace have been strangers, either 
newly come to the city or merely passing through it, while others 
living longer here have not had any regular church connection. It is 
perhaps to be regretted that we have no adequate means of following 
up enquirers and young converts. The name and address of each is 
sent to the minister of the church to which he claims to belong, or, if 
a stranger, to some minister of the denomination with which he has 
previously been connected, and he is advised to seek help. and 
guidance in the church. 

The special need of this meeting is a large choir, and the 
attendance of an increased number of active Christian workers. 


STATEMENT OF ATTENDANCE AT RELIGIOUS MEETINGS. 


Held, Atsondenee. Total. 

Young Men’s Meetings, 52 86 4,504 
Sunday Morning Bible Class, 52 17 884 
Sunday Afternoon Bible Class, 52 56 2,914 
Sunday Afternoon Temperance Meeting, 52 78 4,056 
Sunday Evening Evangelistic Meeting, 52 415 21,610 
Tuesday Evening Bible Class, 52 53 2,768 
Boys’ Meeting, Friday Evening, 52 Yi 884 
Daily Prayer Meeting, 309 18 5,616 
Total number of Religious Meetings held in Building, 673 
Total Attendance, 43,236 


R. H. HOLLAND, 
Chairman of Devotional Committee. 


16 


MISSION COMMITTEE. 


This branch of work has been hindered through the resignation 
of the chairman, Mr. R. Henderson. Absence from the city through 
business has prevented his continuing the leadership. Active work 
has been carried on at the Hospital, Sailors’ Iustitute, Fire Stations, 
Cottage Meetings, Scandinavian Mission, and Railway Branch at 
Point St. Charles. 

THE HOSPITAL SERVICE 
is conducted by two or more members every Sunday morning at 9.30. 
The attendance varies according to the number of convalescent 
patients. The singing is a most attractive feature, and two or three 
Christian ladies are constant in their attendance and assistance in 
this service. Mr. Sinclair, who is always present, writes :— 


In following the Master’s injunction, ‘“‘I was sick and ye visited me,” one 
meets with very many refreshing cases of Spiritual life generated in the above 
blessed Institution. Not very long since a young man who was dying said to the 
writer, on being asked how he was, ‘‘ I’m very weak, but oh! so happy ;” and 
another, “‘ I do not wish to stay here, I’m going home to be with Jesus.” These 
and many others are among the rewards that Christ’s servants receive on earth in 
trying to serve Him. 

COTTAGE MEETINGS 


were only held at three points last Winter. 40 Robb’s Terrace, St. 
Catherine East, the meeting was good in point of attendance and 
interest; 554 Dorchester Street was also good for the first three 
months, but through the non-attendance of workers the interest failed ; 
at 11 Richmond Square meetings were only held for a short time. 
The importance of this branch demands the careful interest and 
attention of the forthcoming Committee. 
THE FIREMEN. 

The distribution of magazines and papers amongst the Firemen 
has been continued, all the Stations but one being visited Sunday 
mornings. This work has been carried on by Messrs. W. Y. Seaman, 
Jno. Rowley, Geo. Sloan, A. Riley, Chas. Reddy and the chairman, 


A. D. Lanskail. 
SAILORS’ MISSION. 


Under the joint leadership of Messrs. Dumaresq and Williams 
the work of tract distribution has been continued on Sunday morn- 


17 


ings, at 8 o’clock. On some occasions the workers have been too‘ few, 
especially has this been so in the French sections. The: workers 
report that a greater variety of illustrated tracts would be of service. 
The results from this service are difficult to estimate, other than the 
opportunity it gives for “sowing the seed,” and for personal contact 
with so large a class of men in the “ministry of the gospel.” 
Devotional meetings have been held on Monday, Wednesday and 
Thursday evenings of each week at the Institute, and these have 
been seasons of great blessing to the workers. Messrs. Craig, Dougall, 
Williams, Sinclair, Gazeley, Holland, Buchanan and Henderson, and 
others who assisted, under Mr. Ritchie, in these evening meetings, 
report great blessing. 
7 THE SCANDINAVIAN MISSION. 
Services amongst the Scandinavians, in their own language, have 
been conducted by Messrs. Jacobson and Ohling, in the Building at 
ll am., and 7 p.m. Since the 4th of December, 1882, 57 meetings 
have been held with a total attendance of 1778 persons. Two 
Cottage Meetings are held weekly :—Tuesday evening at 87 Grand 
Trunk Street ; Thursday evening at 528 Dorchester Street, with an 
average attendance of 11. There are about 400 Scandinavians in 
this city, and each year the number of those who immigrate here is 
increasing. The importance of uniting our Scandinavian Brethren 
in Christian fellowship, until they are strong enough to organize and 
sustain a Church, will be apparent to all. Several conversions have 
occurred, and the interest in the services is most gratifying to those 


who have charge. 
MILITIA CAMPS. 


Association tents were erected in the Brigade Camps at St. Johns 
and Brockville, from June 25th, to July 6th, and the work carried on 
under the direction of this A sociation. At St. Johns, Mr. G. A. 
Kuhring took charge of the work. <A large tent, 60 x 40, was used 
during the day as a Reading and Writing room. Games were 
provided in Checkers, Chess, Football, Base-ball and Quoits. Each 
evening the tent was crowded at Evangelistic services. Addresses 
were given by Rev. Messrs. Renaud, Armstrong and Lewis, of St. 
Johns. Rev. Dean Baldwin and Rev. Messrs. Wells and Cline, of 
Montreal, and Rev. Mr. Wetherell, of St. Catherines. In addition, 
several members of the Association assisted. Asa result of these 
services, the addresses of twenty-five ‘“ Enquirers” were secured. 


18 


These have been followed up by correspondence. The following 
letter received by Mr. Kuhring speaks for itself : 


JULY, 21st, 1883. 


Dear Frienp,—I received the ‘‘ Record,” and was glad to find that you had 
not forgotten me. I am very happy since coming home from the Camp, in the 
knowledge that my soul is at rest with God. Will you please send me a few 
Pledge Cards, as there are some here want to sign. I thank you for all the inter- 
est you took in me while in Camp, ete. 


The entire cost of this work for 12 days (including rent of 
tent $40), was $66.47. Towards this the volunteers handed in 
$25.50 on leaving. 

AT BROCKVILLE. 


Mr. D. A. Budge took charge. There were 1500 men under 
canvass, Lieut. Col. Maunsel, D.A.G., in command. The officers 
rendered every assistance. Two tents were erected, one 30 x 50, for 
News-room, Writing and Game room, during the day. Evangelistic 
services in the evening. One 17 x 30 for Bible Classes and Sleeping 
Tent. The evening services were always crowded, many listening 
outside. Rey. Mr. Crawford, Judge McDonald and Messrs. Bellamy, 
Reynolds and Tennant, of Brockville, rendered valuable aid. Rev. 
Mr. Salmon, of Toronto, spent three days in the work. Every tent 
was visited and several thousand tracts distributed : 975 letters were 
written by the men at the tent. Many enquirers were met and took 
great pleasure in having the word explained to them. The entire 
cost of the work was $59.64, borne by the Dominion Executive 
Committee. The following letter illustrates results in the work : 

Aveust, 5th. 
Dear Mr. Bungee, 
I received your letter, but waited replying until I could tell 
you that I had found pardon and forgiveness of sins through the precious blood of 
Christ. Now I can say, ‘‘ though thou wert angry with me, thine anger is turned 


away and thou hast comforted me, therefore I will praise thee.” Pray that I 
may be strengthened more and more in the Christian life, etc., etc. 


This is a most important and effective hranch of Association 
work, 
RAILWAY BRANCH, POINT ST. CHARLES. 
In May last, Mr. I’, Lonsdale, who laboured among the railway 
men and their families with much acceptance, was called to be 
Secretary of the Hamilton Association. 


19 


During the summer Mr. W. B. Dawson took charge of the work. 
Since September this Branch has been under the care of Mr. G. A. 
Kuhring, Assistant Secretary. Visitation has been continued one 
afternoon of each week. 

The average attendance at the Sunday Afternoon Gospel Meeting 
during the winter was 75; during the summer, 45. <A prayer 
meeting is held fora quarter of an hour before this meeting. 

A Cottage Meeting is held on Monday evening at 119 Congre- 
vation Street, average attendance 21. It is proposed to organize 
other Cottage Meetings. 

An Invitation and Tract Distribution Committee has been 
formed to distribute slips and invitations among their fellow-workmen 
in the shops, on the lne, and on Sunday Afternoons at the crossings, 
half an hour before the service. Two thousand and eighty-five tracts 
and invitations were distributed during September and October. 

A Bible Class is held on Sunday mornings at 9.30. Since Mr. 
Lonsdale’s departure, it has been conducted by Mr. Grigg. Average 
attendance during the winter, 16, during the summer, 10. 

-Our hearty thanks are due to Miss White, who, until September 
last, gave so much of her time and valuable aid in the service of song 
at the meetings. Severe illness ‘prevented her from continuing. 
Since September her place has been willingly filled by Miss Smith. 
We must also acknowledge our gratitude to Mr. J. Curtis Clark for 
his constant and valuable assistance in connection with these services. - 

We labour under great disadvantage in not having a room for 
our special work among young men, and we trust something may be. 


accomplished, before long, in this respect. 


20 


EDUCATIONAL COMMITTEE. 


The educational work noticed in the last Annual Report, was 
continued until April with most gratifying success. The attendance 
was regular, and the careful preparation of the Teachers and 
Lecturers was rewarded by the greatest interest on the part of the 
students and hearers. The course in Literature and Biography proved 
to be a very popular one, both from an intellectual and financial point 
of view. At the close of the course, after paying all expenses, we 
were enabled to place about $160 to the credit of the Library 
Committee. 

The present season your Committee has restricted its field of 
operations. As the Board of Art and Manufactures has large rooms, 
and abundant means, and as it has expressed its willingness to meet 
the need of mechanical instruction, the class in Geometry and 
Mechanism, so admirably taught by Prof. McLeod, has not been 
resumed. 

The class in Commercial Arithmetic is continued under Mr. 
Humphrey, who has also undertaken the instruction in Bookkeeping, 
while in addition to a class in Elementary French, Mr. Morin is giving 
an. advanced course to those who were able to undertake it. On 
account of the pressure felt the last two years, the Committee decided 
to have but one course of lectures, extending, if possible, throughout 
the entire season. As a fitting continuation of the lectures in American 
History, Canadian industries and commerce was proposed, as a subject 
worthy of the consideration of the young men of this city, during the 
earlier portion of the session. Through the kind co-operation of some 
of our leading business men a course is now being given, which, for 
general information, for light on the past history, growth and develop- 
ment of this country, on the men who have bravely and well laid the 
foundation of our present position and our future greatness, is simply 
invaluable. 


1. Dr. WILKES—‘‘ Montreal from 1823 to 1883: a review of its rise and 
growth,” . 


2. THOS. WHITE, Esq., M. P.—‘‘ The Newspaper interest: its rise and 
growth,” 


21 
3. HUGH McLENNAN, Esq.—‘‘ The Water-ways of Canada.” 
4, WM. J. PATTERSON, Esq.—‘“ Foot prints of Commercial and Mechanical 


Industries.” 
J. T. DONALD, B. A.—‘‘ The Mining interests of the Dominion.” 
G. HAGUE, Esq.—‘‘ The Banking interests of Canada.” 
J. K. WARD, Esq.—‘‘ The Lumber interests of Canada.” 
FRANK PAUL, Esq.—‘‘ The Silk industry.” 


E. F. AMES, Esq.—‘‘ The Boot and Shoe industry : its rise and growth in 
Montreal.” 


CM AS gs 


10. H. R. IVES, Esq.—‘‘ The Iron industry.” 


The knowledge given can be obtained in no text book, it has 
been gained from original sources, by great labour and research. 
It is entirely to the living and will be of more and more value to 
the future of this country, therefore, we think it is most desirable 
that they should be published in pamphlet form, ney of access 
and capable of preservation. 

To the press of the city, for extended reports, we are under deep 
obligation. 

F. W. KELLEY, 
Chairman. 


MEMBERSHIP COMMITTEE. 


We are glad to state that 215 names were added to the member 
ship roll during the year. Sixty-nine were admitted as Active and 146 as 
Associate members, and it is rather remarkable to note that the great 
majority of these voluntarily sought admission to our ranks, which 
fact makes it safe for your Committee to say that if the members 
generally were to exercise a little more energy and zeal in looking out 
for new members, much larger additions would certainly be the result. 

Your Committee has been very anxious to meet and get acquainted - 
with the new members, as they join from month to month, and have 
adopted the following plan. On the second Thursday of the month 
the new members are invited to meet the Membership Committee at 
tea, after which they are introduced. The work and privileges of the 
Association are then carefully explained, and a very pleasant and pro- 
fitable time is spent. 

Your Committee would respectfully recommend to their succes- 
sors the propriety of continually revising the membership roll, to 
retain and continue the interest of the members in some branch of our 
work. 

The following is the roll of members as it now stands: 


IWS Vachs cy hg aaduewed eV EL COR Cuen ee tent 572 
NORGE io Ve ee el oe 286 
NR ay td NRRL EL BES Bind 28 
PRONG i Nae ahd es os sree og Sales 46 
SR TEI SS ah aw alg wis pec gia Noe 265 
BMS Siaus s cgaed acai wectere <n NA Da 1197 

W. PAUL, 


Chairman. 


23 


EMPLOYMENT COMMITTEE. 


Month, heal suites aod 
1832. November ......cccecsseeeres Bey Ma aR lakes ie bce alight 
nt December .....- o+-+:- BD sn nn Gea aead wee eo ame 22 
1883, January......cccceecsce recess 48 hte vere 19 
ii February. j iacisheera ss omeenrael ery 10 
" Wale ou ele isin cd PAR Ne LR te OR wa otal nosis Ghivia d 13 
ee PD ned seid), oe nns ee eee (| SP Ptr 6 
a; oe, POE REELS PCC ESA ape ge alae te Pe sary 9 
Tea eae io) re gk 
ty August : SE dias vain Soma ee 11 
" September ......+-0+ eeeceers Bei. He. AER). 8 
si Qetaver oli ds ce dad) COS uw eee AR eee niece ORES Bee 19 
Total: is. ACL. UDO Fe AtS8 479 . aU yA 170 


The number of situations secured were divided among the 


different occupations as follows :— 


Blacksmiths! ic elii sce Vi eeel dienes pk 
Boots and Shoes ....- ..c-ccesccces 2 
Brakesmen and R. R. Employees . 25 
ButGhers oo sccsssciscceetanterss ge) 
Carpenters...... 2 uC gone oma © ib, 3 
Chemists and Druggists............ 2 
Clerks and Book-keepers ........+. 31 
ih: po) Se A 7 

sa Dry Goods ....e0eeeeee 11 
Coachmen and Grooms.-...e+.ee.es 16 
Dentist Assistants.......2.ecceeee 2 
Draughtsmen ... ...e cere e sr eeeece 3 
Engineer... sececcceee cece serene 1 
Engraver .... .see scene coer seeees aay * 
Farmers and Helps......... ...+. il 
. General and Liabowees: vip. wLhaces paca a 10 

"TOtal 45's deans 


Gardeners o@ree ore errereee *eeee 3 


Grocers...... Ue i Caen al hy wig'ak fs 
Leather Paul Ge. duwmbiane od ii ot ea 3 
Machinists. 2 sos s0 ee c sedow cee es oe 7 
Messenger ......-+ «- 5 rr er 5 1 
Painter fi-+0 cen Killah MS-b eee Lee 1 
Porte i. eh VEC aS oe S08 ais cae 1 
Printer, «4s Seb bode Cetin 0 a ee | 
Puree? io ick seco wece catva sivee coves 1 
Sia wWAR i sos Rade yee vals sn on bee 1 
Seer Cbs CN eee sk e sees se sence ieve 1 
Shoeimake? | onicses, Seow seri esne care 1 
Raita ALS anys ces wore panera tas Oe 
ae 8 Giak ss Slee Sy wie aise eee ea : 
PARES “ois 5 oe awe vas ln aT a euw hs 3 
WAGE Hi ied ae sas aoe eles Se Ree 
Lee CUR DNS Shae ere ema” vie oe 170 


In presenting the foregoing report, the Committee desire to draw 
attention to the large increase in number of applicants for employment 
from 152 in 1882 to 479 in 1883 ; increase, 327 ; and number of situa- 
tions supplied, 95 in 1882 to 170 in 1883; ae. 75. 


24 


We have set apart the hours between 10 and 12 a.m. to meet 
young men requiring our aid, but find it inadequate to the demand as 
the names registered represent only a proportion of those who come to 
the rooms soliciting assistance and advice. 

The increased number arriving in our city, and the fact that many 
of our manufacturers and merchants have reduced the number of their 
employees, renders it more difficult to secure situations; while the 
want of a knowledge of French on the part of applicants prevents us 
in many cases from rendering them assistance. 

We are glad to say that a better class of young men are coming 
to apprentice themselves as Farmers; we have been able to place all 
such, and expect a much larger number next year. 

Members and friends have not been as faithful as they might 
have been in notifying us, without delay, when vacancies came under 
their notice. . 

The question has been asked, Are there any results to this 
work, and does it pay? We answer—yes. 

Ist. We are enabled to help young men in temporal matters, 
whether they are Christians or not, and try to carry out the 
exhortation, ‘As we have therefore opportunity, let us do good to 
all men.” 

2nd. We are thereby enabled more effectually to invite them to 
our meetings. Some only attend for a few times, but many join the 
Association, and through its influence have been led to the Christian 
Life. 


“* Bear ye one another’s burdens, and so fulfil the law of Christ.”—Gal. vi. 2. 
W. TEES, 


Chairman. 


INVITATION COMMITTEE. 


The work of this Committee has been carried on as usual during 
the past year. 

Every Saturday evening, about half-past seven, members of the 
Committee have taken their places at a few of the principal street 
corners in the vicinity of our building and handed invitations to the 
young men passing by. The leading hotels have also been visited at 
the same time. 

Twenty-two thousand invitations have been distributed. Aver- 
age number of workers, seven. 

_ For the past seven months, invitations to the Secretary’s Bible 
Class have also been distributed in the hotels and at the street corners 
on Sunday afternoons. Average number of workers, five. 

We have to regret the removal of two of our most faithful 
workers, Mr. Wm. Y. Seaman, having left the city in March, and 
Mr. Geo. E. Williams in September. While the results of this work 
are to a great extent hidden from us, we believe that many have 
accepted the invitation, the attendance at the Saturday-evening meet¢ 
ings having been very large during the past year. We are occasion- 
ally cheered by the words of Christian strangers passing through the 
city, who receive invitations in the hotels, or on the streets. 

Two incidents which have come to our notice might be men- 
tioned. Early in the year a young man received an invitation in 
one of the hotels, and came to the meeting, and was led to put his 
trust in the Saviour. He has since left the city, but letters received 
from him indicate a growth in grace. 

The other was that of a young man who was passing through 
the city, on his way to the lower Provinces. Receiving an invitation 
in the hotel, he came to the meeting, and at the close, held a short 
conversation with the Se retary. As he was leaving for the Kast 
that night, a letter of introduction to the Assistant Secretary, (then 
at Quebec), was given to him. He called on the Assistant Secretary 
early the following morning, deeply concerned about Spiritual things. 
A letter received a short time after brought the glad tidings that he 
was enabled to rejoice in Christ his Saviour. 


ALEX. D. LANSKAIL, 


Chairman. 


ROOMS AND LIBRARY COMMITTEE. 


Your Committee beg to report that their aim has been to supply 
the very best reading matter which could be obtained. Large 
additions have been made to both Reading Room and Library, and 
no pains have been spared in strengthening this department of our 
work, in widening its influence, and in making it worthy of the 
Association. 

The cheery rooms and well-stocked tables have drawn large 
numbers of readers, and it is a matter for congratulation that we have 
now on our tables the best papers and periodicals of the English- 
speaking population of the world. At present there is a total of 119 
copies, as follows :— 


r Dailies. Weeklies. Monthlies. Total. 
Canadian 11 31 2 44 
British 15 18 33 
American 1 30 10 41 
French i 1 
12 Tt 30 119 


Among them are, The Century, Harper's, Cassel’s, and English 
Illustrated Magazines, Atlantic Monthly, Princeton Review, Magazine 
of Art, Magazine of American History, The Critic, Eclectic and 
Library Magazines, Grip, Punch, Harpers Weekly, London 
Graphic and Illustrated News, English Mechanic, Art Amateur, 
Seientifie American with Supplement, New York Times, and leading 


Canadian Dailies; best religious papers and periodicals ; while on the 


Boys’ Table may be found, British Workman, Boys Own, Science 
Gossip, Youth’s Companion, Harper's Young People, Swinton’s Story- 
Teller, Illustrated Christian Weekly, Wide-Awake, and St. Nicholas. 

The Library is becoming more and more known and appreciated. 
It is being realized that the Public Library is the People’s College. 
The number of readers has about trebled during the past twelve 
months, while the circulation has increased from 560 last year to 
1,911 the present year. The care of our efficient Librarian is shown 
in the fact, that when the books were checked in September last, it 
was found that only seven were missing from the shelves, and it is 


27 


hoped that even these may be recovered. A year ago there were in 
the Library 2,173 volumes, and notwithstanding our limited means, 
nearly 200 of the latest and best books have been added since the 
last Annual Meeting. As these are not included in our Catalogue, 
we append, for the convenience of members, a classified list of these 
additions. 

To our members, active and associate, to young men who have 
left school or college, to all who value good books, we confidently 
commend our Library, and for increasing its usefulness, we ask of 
our friends continued support. 

(Signed), 
F. W. KELLEY, 


Chairman. 


LIST OF BOOKS ADDED SINCE PUBLICATION OF CATALOGUE. 


BIOGRAPHY. 
2176 Richard Brinsley Sheridan ..............ceeeee- Mrs. Oliphant... .12-4-33 
2180, Tenimore OOODER. bis 64 vce seG edie ss aha eae ones Lounsbury .......12-4 
FSO: RMA OT. PF ONROMN bo wien’ cha dant eala el laalbmes Boewell o. 066658. 12-4 
2061 dames Naemy$h int idided ol tlassel id Ldtleb ae LIOR Kad eea a 12-1-12 
HISTORY. 
OOO Book of  Martyra tics o.cess wis alb arniiiig ecard ena Bax 3.0L DU oi 6-80 
GOL . | BEiator py OG Ph eE OANA RION ose se. 5 Sli leicie-c sieuclenwieceavenountane Fisher sees QU 5-8- 2 
602 . | Beginnings of ‘Christianity. ....... 00s eeuecvocsaed FO de HAI REL 5-8- 3 
1666 War of 1812....... SSE cent eieiniea stern Rossiter Johnson.10-4-11 
BOOT OR SP POO iia ha ian Hie iae see eee eee " ¢  .10-4-12 
1668 Hero of Cowpens..........-. (pkg Fab eee 6 owe ARON: . Rilte Bd 10-4-13 
1669. ‘Building of the Nation. »..... ice .as ahs 1s wieSeteles ORS sas view cress CAA 10-4-14 
PGTEL. FAITE OE EL eek Whdalaok doing nie msaepawkaese 2 coiin'v sunt RATA RM DAG he Velie, see 
16864 History of United States ....... VOR > Aaa acman Bancroft. ......10-5- 84 
16864 aS ri iy A ik Ske ee RADA | Src er ey as aR EAN ..10-5- 84 
2701 Transactions Literary and Historical Society of 
Qireenind) wails: 0044s ewinnws vol: 1 SRB Taf 2 alias oh soils 11-3- 1 
2702 Transactions Literary and Historical Society of 
Kee Oibeal GSH hase alee eaiarnes vol., 2, 1B72-7Tagad'). bees. 11-3- 2 
2703 Transactions Literary and Historical Society of 
CorebGor\, AST i bud nok eke Wik ty) CIPO aOR AK 11-3- 3 
270#: -|\Diateh: Republid! sil. cance ces imme vok: Dh osu ewe Motley bi 600s a's 11-3- 4 
2705 si OR et eye er cs. OE” FANNER RS iomAlaahen te ee aes ern 11-3- 5 
2706 ric TE sy cabedddastes aalcciieke shane VOL, Bebainn. Luin EAlOul, Be LeOWia 11-3- 6 
21G¢.. Erench Revolutionisss.tacd Rye teas ik 6 ain ew re MOTTO. (256... LL-See 
2708 Epoch of Reform..... ite mutal tert bane sane See a ION e's vaso 9 Lame 
2709 English People in its Three Homes...... ...... Freeman ... .... 11-3- 9 


2730 - Edin Bebe on hicks aw SAWN as hheand ss eRe RE CN At 11-3-10 


2711 
2712 
2713 


2714 
2715 
2716 
2717 
2718 
2719 
2720 
2721 
2722 
2723 
2728 
2729 
2752 
2753 
2754 
2755 
2756 
2757 
2758 
2759 


844 
845 
846 
847 
848 
849 
850 
851 
852 
853 
854 
855 
856 
857 
858 
859 
860 
861 
862 
991 
992 
993 
994 
1003 


AA irigi Oe Nabione ek Rawlinson... ..... 11-3-11 
ee ee ae oP ST ea Pd Walpole: .ecess eas 11-3-12 
History of the People of the United States 
plein! Ebley oath LC -toendeacee VOL 1... ..MigMaster..)..5011-3.48 
sept} wy ih sicey shee sly’ tended Sehtwthhws® seb iewes tibial 11-3-14 
‘ 11-3-15 
bah Gia lepeiee x Gulech. wn Miata obs Sle CE NOE NAL G Weck Om Rie nls i ¢ le oak ww TIN Hee eee | 
Seb Lot MOIR S a CR TT ee Ee Oe Oa) ee eee See TE, Ey 11-3-17 
SMiWl « bY RG o LEMS «tals PI MLo Seah MMSE. SY Vie od, St aCesh 2)? ¢ 11-3-18 
Young Folks’ History of the United States.... Higginson.... ... 11-3-19 
DOM QMIM eM oi Wii Jey. aie Showa le Hatton & Harvey .11-3-20 
Rise of the Huguenots...... .....vol 1.. .... PAE ase Sins ures 11-3-21 
y 4; et tiaeermakicratshee VOL, 2 VEL Us TAU AY, “2...11-3-22 
Dominion Annual Register, 1882............. Morgan 6663295’ 11-3-23 
A i nk WE DY shri OE. eee oe vied 11-3 
RTOS A AY a i iat p) isa eee eadawd ngs cbeeea ue eee 
The Mi sadeon of "Herland ey sme ee BOOLOY citad fa datat 11-4 
SUMO chia shh wea af oxee sodas dedicate. Bartow’, scas vos! Li’ 
PY RM ere at, PU, heehee CRN amas CR datas eas 11-4 
Wien with Mexioo. sx darwat.2h 0s axed. LER: Ladd : 11-4 
BROOD WE AUR he eos panded: pcr ty Neer i bee -.-11-4 
i vi ele bale G Wath. ot Soe Wills es wins BT oe ee ach (op eee 
aig Me TORE cece eS ever s3 oot EMG. Cede swan cs 11-4 
Cie Fr Ra eno e WOR oye oe Ve NM we lbtua 4 gee ak 11-4 
LITERATURE—GENERAL, 
Young Franc-Tireurs ..... . . . ccoeee. ey eT ee 7-1- 9 
EPO ee AGT IN se Need ecepibadeasnydath Adams 7-1 10 
BE TPG eases, BRT, civics oscreccidiororses Ai awaredetcianen eG Dr Macaulay....,7-1-11 
Biteniondry Proview $0. es avee cones .weewdistga rons 405% Oye 7-1-12 
DeVary deoyetA nual, 1878 iii ‘neue: ueeeer ccs. Rutledge......... 7-1-13 
Sietotany Prastiliiy sais casics Siskin. ‘bss A. Kearygoaad. A 7-1-14 
BEAK BBR cra fe. sols a's onic idananinn paid Oneaue POM 2ih.04's 0 09 2741-15 
WEY sch whic RO Roa iecixi nag ile dnvicantas +6: 6 eh ORE IO LOL: 7-1-16 
The Story of Siépfried isn eae amas =a Sees sSwieece> Baldwin,... ...;. 7-1-17 
Pi. 3% Se Rae a Pee ee St ce gli te Pe (sa: ree F-1-18 
PARR OSI y 6 4 ss ciieh conde cei yew ovabg sees Kellopes ooo iotn 7-1-19 
Lion Ben. hb Ghee Qbbd tie ehihe Lage, 3 iL wen Ee 7-1-20 
Wide, Wide World. ia Weed ba oleae eanee wad ’ Miss erika wesgs¢-L-21 
Stephen, MOD as. ks “thaion slaaded ei Lee . ES aL eworapcygy 7-1-22 
BP rinonss of Thulei ttre! Ot Joes, oe. ic Wm. Black, ..... 7-1-23 
Yolande . pa a WP) GRAS e MKS Glatesd els oe Bly ROI Rope 7-1-24 
Art at Cos. Le thikcc. av eee tpaans LIQTRO sav QRiiie ss 7-1-25 
Recollections of. a yahewtitnen Boy Riot nda daicks Baeiiee fc 5i wisi 7-1-26 
Macaulay’s teeing nnd Hesaye ioevoly ik akicniad bes 008d ka 2. 7-6-21 
rs ag Pe s\n ahhte ee cee Waaween heilate ld sabes 7-6-22 
1. : Ee No ree HA Cathie oti EE s aida 7-6-23 
Tracts and Stories Scottish People........+.... ogéreica'l dats 7-6-24 
OP ERIS: Bil Src cGhis: ecw sheds dads ee se: eceesGeo, MacDonald .7-7- 9 


29 

The Marquis of Lossie...........00.- sacar be .-- Geo. MacDonald. .7-7-10 
Hidbort PW aloistass ics ick acca teh cack ohie s ..7-7-11 
Alec Forbes of a thi pg kse'ss e4ye a dRRN eae a ..7-7-12 
‘Warlock 0 Glewwarlock <6... iss Pscsclesecuedacwes 4 ..1-7-13 
Annals of a Quiet Neighborhood......... rey fi ..7-7-14 
onal Grant. adyihis dyed eee veges. Sees eee * ..7-7-15 
The YEEREDLADNE SATE, Veles vane L VO Lge pg olay racecil cad 8-8-1 

eV AG oldie eee idee Ee ef darea'ttee B-Bx 2 
Uncle Tom’s Babin ar nadin deawdebac pale ceeee Mrs, Stowe........ 8-8- 3° 
c TOO FP sey «ao ewe Se eee LORE wie) aya Coopen.c). vised. .8-8- 4 
CRI oo 6's fats ilo.s 0. 0,5.0,0,4 Xo 3.5)5,5 Va ta aint yee Seema a ete 8-8- 5 
4g ME ge ht a re re IT welt bo weal ae 8S 
PRCDTRA irae kee oT bee ees a wet rte UF iodide Oi Rea 
a Ce oe oe ee eer rey ee eer Ory Tarts et" eh eee 8-8- 8 


The Bastonnais i065) 0 el ce0s ¥... dsc ek vio ss SIERO .ce see 


ODS TATA. ess oe ee ahi eae eee I a 8-8-10 
Bricks Without Straw........... staat St Salar See TOTS glee CALEY 3, 8-8-11 
Prot Plobrhwhares ei ot eas es) ee 8-8-12 
8-8-13 
8-8-14 
W entone Of Miveredalé: fi lil sisi is los eee lA ATION oop ak Coes 8-8-15 
att Some Miva ss eae es ee (ay Eo Oa ial tas Dag 8-8-16 
VY SPU. CU TR la 20s kale oc sa ve eeeeateone pe Cee 8-8-17 
Pa RUPE cp ca oe 5p" bos? Maan inne Paes NR OER 8-8-18 
PiMewiere Bare AWAS ede deeues eevee onan iy $is nas? 2 OU 
PLOURWONS TO TOAPUOSG UN kwe Us nheda ee eeees is Le 0002 2 8°8-20 
A Knight of XIX Centary: Ska iemetaiae ane woman edt ne tate 8-8-21 
Peear tr Teaemre e EReAre Te Sid on bea > see oe armas Bray es 8-8-22 
The Opening of a Chestnut Burr.. .... re hy Oa.) 0 ime abe 8 8-23 
A Day or Fate es hacia s eo Cae <a ake kaon meee’ re. SEReenes Re 8-8-24 
Without a Home..... eandiniitincst ardtone tee tated aene TY Ss ogee attics § 8-8-25 
His Sombre Rivals ........... Re a ek gett pe ec ing bak wives 8-8-26 
ane * Contry, S6sL-O2 ior). iiis Sue heea eae 13-3-7 
HCE. 5 GAMOON velit sds die ie suk pw sy sa ala og a eee ae 13-3-8 
Oy A. 03. seco. fe ached. ely gee li a a untae 13-3-9 
Ps Da sie sl Shain salle ae ote tig. wale hiae a eae 13-3-10 
Harper's Monthly iiss ee See ees VOR. BE. a irene ote ota t ed 13-7-14 
iat Dee oe a SF lla. o aa kk gee ale ok Re ciery did A 
PONbrey wa Ee ble nhncne dae DD AMES, 5. lee AERP META ot araipee 13-7-16 
PURI) | recy Be aes ell pe eee an. tae ated ae es As Ad 13-77-17 
LITERATURE—RELIGIOUS. 
From Death unto Life........ ‘Abate eycha Ge GEEMREMIL Ws -cad bes 3-1- 3 
Ween Tice car cckeeenecen ae oe oft. pen, i a eR a 3-1- 4 
Bwlding from the Toe (lives saci wee eeeares Pr Oh ey es elie 3-1- 5 
‘ine Thréee-fold itt of Giddy ale isa ee eees are Soll fig wiabe dase | ts 3-1- 6 
Presbyterian Church in Ireland ...... ... aie sa Alexander....... 3-1- 7 
Jos. Allene ..ss suds ee: See etal eer Pee kt, FOURAR OP ghd ae ones o-1- 8 
Bittle Fox ei adarpcl A « 3:00 asncnitanece Qiao bia Abbe SE Mrs. Stowe.......3-l- 9 


Waymarks in: the: Wilderness 6.6.66 05 sie deen cn dees Oi. cue 3-1-10 


oO 
11 Modern Doubt and Infidelity........... ia getinare wai Christlieb. ..,.. 31-11 
12 History of English Bible ..... Waesee wale vee eee Westcott ........ 3-1-12 
138 The Ages before Moses........ 2... Nadine Seat Gibson. .... 66... 8-1-13 
14 ;-The Mosaio Tia... os ccc elections ate hi tae “arabe Gite rams OP Ye ove. O-l-14 
15 Life and Writings of...... sncrinarete oa aR OLY I Benham......... 3-1-15 
16 Philosophy of Future State..........0.... eer ee rede NG SS 3-1-16 
17 Manliness of Christ ........... NOES peRRC ee ES Cee Hughes ...+...-. 3-1-17 
25 Koures.cf Matti viii cee Pi ee es eee a Tee ARS bad James..see...5.. 31-18 
19 The Christ of History........... ... Ue eig'a wsigais Wotan. 0044 2259 3-1-19 
20 The Early Days of Christianity ............... Peerage OG 3-1-20 
ee AO ATTN Os ea a Salat ala etee” Wipers yee well Wad: ac F PR 3-1-21 
22 Glimpses of the Truth as in Jesus................ Dr. Winslow..... 3-1-22 
SCIENCE. 
7013 Facts and Fancies in Modern Science.... ....... Dawson. ....0.++. 6-3-193 
TP.) Ae GUANO GE POO BAGON fos ioe) 6 ek waged mend dies Guillemin. .... 6-5-24 
Poe.) Pee’) MOOK AD  FASEVONOTIY yo. oc nes nedieude'd ve og FRGIG ras wey'siputia te 6-5-25 
767 The Heavens Above............. .« an ery hare ce a tal ee og lo 
7784 American Boys Handy Book .... 0.6. .0..ee0e, LT gs Ome TE 6-8-1335 
a DOU I OONMIIG Sa vkcs co eeksiee ves he hawares MAMEMCE Mae $3 'ia lanai 6-8-14 
Pak Pom as  EACHINAR, . ois ieee |g Sn eineleb hens ape Skt CoOe theta doo oer 
Ty RA SURE aid as vig sep xed wage RAIN Ke wwe a a aR 6§-8-15 
TO SION WAC ATL DOD ogee sices beeen wae patie Bese de Eiloart....4. 000% 6-8-16 
Te LiCREIE WO TOTR™ 66e F selina sce woe secs AAR EIB alas eats 6-8-1635 
781i History of the Steam je ed ds we tiad oe re ne ate hE DOR ity 6.4 ase, A-One 
Geo ACCES TS eleerADN cninis ba ainhh.c.s seas ebentles dodlaks L.. Bright....5 «...,.;'6-6 
ee MAOOUEAY Vi ines de oh. bub bibs Meekeaetlen kann’ BROMO K » 4,4: o\u: iene bh 6-6 
Toe, Re POOR TCT DULOBODNG aes ycceaew vers. Sanes TE sel A ala areas 6-6 
CR SR kh dday Shc buen uss piv 6h npg tt ela E. Ingersoll ..... 6-6 
UE EN ee ah ei ie hel caw mies adie bee Gh Rae J. Michelet...... 6-6 
PE DOD: RC OEOT, BON fel k densa bake ine: ae eten en Richardson ..... 11-5- 1 
2761 ot es ta asian Ads: Asawa: eel A a eh 11-5- 2 
2762 Sleep and Sleeplessness....... ies woken SVs Health Series....11-5- 3 
270G J308, Alr and BOA Bathing ess cccccccvesveoeseaces ‘ oso Ll-5- 4 
2764 Hearing and How to keep it .....,.c0.ssee: cece i ».--11-5- 6 
2765 Health in Schools and Workshops............-.. cr ..-.11-5- 6 
FI is coed hay da aka aA Ha eee nl 4! sae bl-b- 7 
PEE. PRAM TE EPEIIEIG 34h a ears eK nw les ein ww ool SCPC, anile ba eig 11-5- 8 
SUES). RAGES LOXPOR Bs. iss ce sipies 45 bs hin ce ones heer Ce Se ee J1-5- 9 
re AE ge RISERS eA LON NO i a a rn ee RR aa at 11-5-10 
eae RIMES OFTE > 0 ied nus Goods Shere Kink ARATE Ried ae ema gi tha hg 11-5-11 
AA, MOE TTD 5's en eked) abl WEAR One DREE eae Fin ie STINT a ia 11-5-12 
Phe.) RA ARNE BOR OURE ak a's aie eis ae ne Morne hed ce ae haan ho ie SEG aut 11-5-13 
2773 The Forms of Water...... gules tn Sea Sn Ah Mb ie Sag Tyndall.........11-5-14 
Side, IDA OLORG WLCERIS jays | ea twae teed bee pitas aia Bs ILE a arena dt bie 11-5-15 
PE MEI od oak kala viel alg hes Wi diem ee ca MALO Re Donnelly... ....11-5-16 
PAS ND gg ES a i a Pa ihPaaea RE oa has diate 11-5-17 
TRAVELS AND ADVENTURES. 
1325 From Powder-Monkey to Admiral............. Kingston.......-+ 9-1 
1326 Won from the Waves....... AhBeH nig nd BERS ws DRL reek | 


31 

133)... Among the Maly Bille: + 520s eet hs Wisin soy Soka ks 9-1 
1328 Mexico and her Lost Provinces.................. Bishop.......... 9-1 
1329 Among the Mongols...) ified OA ad CGM OUT: oo, ve oe 9-1 
1330 Boy Travellers—Central Africa.................. BeOS a Sess, 9-1 
1331 “ Cevion and India <si.baee 1 el Py aes 9-1 
1332 < Egypt and Holy Land ......... SR dl coniag ore tga or 
1333 sis Japan and China....... 02.0040. AO, OA at 9-1 
1334 “" SPAM OTL AW. ec pl dashaien’e' leone | A wegen «head | 9-1 
BO SOC LOPE RT CREPE TES DES Oa ent .e«... Ballantyne....... 9-1 

Doe LAO APM ROTTEN eee OU EDO. ees hae Mimygeton .. i... 9-1 
Heat + Bares POs: 2 i a eV Ye et 9-1 
1338 Vasco de Gama..... YR ee ee er ees PS eta dito Le area 9-1 
1339 Drake the Sea King of Devon................... sabes SS AO AL 9-1 
1372 Onthe Desert....... fee Wha h aloe! 5) waaltet ated Field ..... dees Seevow? 
ER ER Si ay wae WE a Se RAR Aba he VE KUae Ree Ree PMEUGOM or gS Ciss « 9-3-82 
14114 Norseman in the West........ ........0., wae A Ballantyne ..... 9-4-74 
145). Winning his Wey evags quails is enlegs |) A Coma Oia 9-4-2) 
1426... Onton the Pawmipad: scccisccwevwssvevecd vewds ees SRORUMUE ES teak wo 9-4-22 
ERT PORES er eteied 4 cand Gee es MAK een ROWM. Gage ners. 9-4-23. 
14298" red’ Man's Revenge 26 se ee eR Ballantyne ..... 9-4-24 
L420) Wild. Man'of the West. eee fo Geo Ree em Ce vente re 9-4-25» 
1490" Adventures in Canada 2560 SA ee ChOTRIO “There ce, 9-4-26 
1481 Th the. Wilds of Mlorida: ). 2° S000. 9 ey Kaingston........ 9-4-27 
L4s2' *' Manned i060 225 5598 Cie teew ed eke es eae nce eae sada ys a 9-4-28: 
£490 Pater Teak PP. es eS sas ae a he eae ee cee hak. Oe 
1468 “Sunshine and’ Storm). 2P a ee  e Mrs. Brassey..... 9-5-3532 
1469 Pictures from Sicily ..... Niele A stays sa ¥ oe yo a ee Barciete ree 9-5-31 
15575 Our New Way Round the World..... ......... COMME Owes i's: 9-8-2614. 
1561 A Voyage Round the World ........0. ccseee eee. Kingston ........ 9-8-30: 
1562. My First Voyage to Southern Seas../...... y heeee eve PANE eats 9-8-31 
LIES RR MIS PRS A OS he | Tae Oe ee ae sepia my 9-8-32: 


WORKS OF REFERENCE. 


Hebrew Grammar ... 


Hindostana Diswoary ooo isle sc cslees ChE CI een Oc. 
Putnam's Hints on: Home: Reading... 50°... a ET 
Encyclopedia Britannica.......... véle.\i5) ‘apd DGG soiQuxy 8 is 
Frandatiapiieds becise adil sue) aA .-.. A. Comstock..... 


Atlas of Island of Montreal.......... 


oer ee eee eo reer eee ea eee, Bee. 


VISITATION COMMITTEE. 


The work of this Committee is to care for and help young men and 
others who are sick and in need. In long protracted illness we have 
been called upon to provide watchers, when our members have gladly 
undertaken the work. In the case of a medical student different 
members sat with him each night during five or six weeks until his 
recovery. Another instance of a Boston gentleman, who took ill 
while visiting here. Several members visited him from time to time 
until he returned home, and we have reason to believe that, as a result 
of this ministry, he was enabled to rejoice even in the prospect of im- 
mediate death. 


Dear Mr. 

I enjoyed your letter so much that I am going to trespass upon your time a 
little, once more. It comforted me so where you wrote, ‘ how pleasant to think he 
departed only to be with Christ,” that I long so much for more comfort, so I want 
to ask you if you will be so kind as to write me of any things, that any of you can 
remember of his saying to you. It seems as if I can remember so few, and every 
little remembrance is so precious to me. You don’t know what a blessing it would 
be to me to have any of your written remembrances, that I could have always be- 
fore me. He was so much weaker when we left Montreal than I had any idea of, 
the last was, in one sense, so sudden, it seems as if I left somuch undone. You re- 
member he said a good deal about “‘ not getting comfort,” that worries me so 
although it seems as if he must have gotten it, or he could not have been so 
patient, and so willing to go as he was at times. If you have ever lost any one dear to 
you, you understand how I feel, perhaps. Perhaps Mr. Budge can help me some, 
or Mr. Kingman, who were with him that last Saturday and Sunday afternoon. I 
hope you won’t think I am asking too much of you. I hesitated agood deal before 
writing, but I feel that you will understand me and excuse me. 


I feel as if I cannot thank you and Mr. Budge and Mr. Kingman enough for the 
tnexpressible good your letters have done me. If the time ever comes to any of you 
when you need as much, J pray God will send you as much comfort as you have sent 
me. Imust thank you again from my heart for the good you did him, and for your 
prayers for him and forme. Thank you too for the little book with the marked 
verses ; it was very welcome. | 


We are often sent for by the Hotel authorities to visit gentlemen 
in special cases of sickness. Many other instances might be recorded, 
showing the value and effectiveness of this service. 

Another member of our Committee has devoted nearly all his time 
to hospital and jail visitation, and he will now report some cases 
showing how God’s blessing has rested on this ministry. 


33 


The Gospel is very emphatic as to the necessity of those who profess to be under 
its power and influence, giving practical evidence that they are so by visiting the 
sick, assisting the needy, and lending a helping hand to those who have fallen 
among the manifold thieves besetting every path and avenue of this mortal life 
During the past year it has been my unspeakable privilege to act for others 
whose business engagement or home duties render a personal visitation impossible, 
and with a success and blessing far exceeding any past year of my association with 
the Y.M.C.A. To the God of all grace be ascribed the praise. Amen. 

How shall I enter into particulars, or describe cases full of interest, and some 
almost of romance? Itis impossible in the space allowed me in this report. I will 
start from the new lot in the cemetery, on Forest Road, where six young men have 
been laid during the year, all of whom died in the General Hospital, and were at- 
tended to there during their longer or shorter illness, and a majority of whom gave 
satisfactory evidence that they had passed from death unto life. A.C. wasa young 
Scotch lad from Glasgow, who died of rapid consumption, a calm and joyful death, 
his funeral service being held in the parlour of the Y.M.C.A., conducted by the 
Rev. Mr. Fleck.—B.S., a young Englishman, who with his young girlish wife, had 
only been a month in asituation in the city, when he took typhoid fever, lost his 
reason almost immediately, and in a few weeks passed away. Reason seemed to 
come back for a brief moment just before death, when he recognized his wife and 
friends. A.L. was older than these two, and his case more touchingly sad, a 
lonely man without kith or kin, and dying of that terrible disease, internal cancer. 
Though occupying a bed in the open ward of the Hospital, he was a paying, 

patient, and left a token of his appreciation of the kindness he received, by a legacy 
' to the Hospital and otherwise. T. A. was a young American from Delaware, an. 
other consumptive. He longed to get home to his mother’s arms to die, and ar- 
rangements were made to send him to her, but his strength failed, and he was car- 
ried back to the bed he never left again ; but when he could not go to her, a ticket 
was provided to bring her on here, and she watched, comforted, closed his eyes, 
and saw him laid in the tomb. Her letter on her return home was full of pathos, 
gratitude, and thanksgiving, for being permitted te minister to the last of her ten 
children. Thus much for the buried dead, of whom alone I speak. And then the 
number in the city, and away in distant villages of the country, both in Upper and 
Lower Canada, from whom grateful letters have been received, are as many as they 
are encouraging. One queer yet characteristic letter might be given in full, did 
space admit. It is in the shape of a round robin, signed by every member of a large 
warm-hearted Irish family, whose young daughter and sister had married a scamp, 
who was met in the ward of the General Hospital. He was ministered to, and a 
situation got for him in the G. T. R., but he left it for the United States, and his 
young wife was absolutély destitute. She was cared for and sent home to her 
father in Ireland. They are Roman Catholics, but if fervent invocations from 
grateful hearts are of any value, then assuredly [am rich indeed. My visits to the 
Penitentiary of St. Vincent de Paul have been full of encouragement, having led 
to correspondence with the men and lads not a few, which cannot fail to have a 
salutary effect upon their lives, even where the Gospel is not accepted and 
embraced. Of the jail I cannot speak, the opportunity of seeing the pris- 
oners collectively being completely cut off by the Protestant Chaplain, and 
yet isolated instances might be given of visitation to prisoners whose names 
have been given in by their friends to call on them in the jail. With 
regard to the male jail, the Chaplain requested me to hold special services 


— 


coh Ie VAIO 


34 


on the Sunday morning before Easter, Good Friday and Easter morning, which 
was done, Mr. George Hague, Mr. Lonsdale, Mr. Budge and myself conducting 


them; Mrs. Budge, Miss Wilks and other ladies leading the singing. It was 


hoped permission would be given to hold them every Sunday morning, and when 
this was refused, the prisoners spontaneously, and without consulting me, sent 
the following petition to Mr. Payette, the jailor, signed by 28 prisoners, being 
all the Protestants then present :— 


To Mr. L. Payette, Governor of the Montreal Jail. 


We, the undersigned prisoners, being all those professing the Protestant faith 
at present in the jail, wish to bring to your notice, 

Ist. That we have attended the services on Palm Sunday, Good Friday and 
Easter Sunday with much interest and benefit, held on our behalf by the Y. M. 
C. A. of this city. 

2nd. That this is the form of worship in which most of us have been brought up 
in our boyhood, and which we have, alas ! too much neglected in later years. 

3rd. That said services are of no cost to any one whatever, being given entirely 
free by the Y. M. C. A. 

4th. That said services are not only calculated to be for us a source of great 
blessing in the future, but~cannot help having a beneficial effect on our conduct 
and behaviour now. 

5th. That no possible harm but great good can come from a continuance of said 
service. 

6th. That these services have been discontinued from some cause or other, and 
we have no other to compare with them in earnestness and devotion ; wherefore 
we respectfully ask of you, sir, to grant to the Y. M. C. A. permission to 
recommence these services on our behalf, or, if granting this our request lies not 
in your power, that you will kindly please to lay this our petition before the 
lawful authority, and we remain, etc., 

Signed by 28 Prisoners. 

This petition speaks for itself, and will bring about a remedy in the course of 
time, 

This report is necessarily very imperfect and condensed. Were space allowed I 
could fill with interesting matter much to praise God for, as well as give encour- 
agement for the future. 


JOHN LOUSON. 


35 


FINANCE COMMITTEE. | 


Your Committee acknowledge the goodness of God in permit- 
ting them to present the following favorable report of the financial 
condition of the Association. 

It is possible that the work of this Committee is generally — 
regarded more from a secular standpoint than that of the other 
Committees, and while a hearty interest is awakened in the result 
of the general work, we are apt to forget the means which are fur- 
nished by the Lord in carrying it on. Money is no less necessary 
than zeal and talents, and we have reason to express our gratitude that 
this department has of the work has been owned and blessed. He, 
to whom “the earth and its fullness belongs,” has so favored your 
Committee that we close the year free of debt. 

The work of the Association is so generally appreciated by the 
business men of the city, who freely respond to the call made upon 
them for its support. We take this occasion to thank them for their 
generous aid, and to express the wish that they would more fre- 
quently visit the Rooms, and thus become familiar with the practical 
work to which their money is being applied. 

The total expense incurred in carrying on this work during the 
year has been $6630.52. When the various reports read to-night are 
considered, as well as that which cannot be reported, it will be seen 
on what an economical basis the Association is conducted. 


L. H. PACKARD, 
Chairman. 


jiey 


Se 


Montreal Doung Men S Christian Association. 


FINANCIAL STATEMENT FOR YEAR ENDING NOV. 30TH, 1883. 


$7288 16 


RECEIPTS. 

Transferred from Roe RON ss cece ees so x ma $ 345 16 
BiEneeriplions Aid TIOHAGMS, . 4. sch ok oy eee ies poo wen 4,972 75 
Membership Fees............. 4 Ose a hile ore Ge wacky oe Wey BM 466 50 
PMB, BEC, AS SEM WEE Cid ole, Heth geIO. dalis adee bears 1,270 00 
RAMTTOR DO Ease oo). o'iy x ns ale.o Gad « SAN Reale eden nniale de 154 64 
eumuveraary CoMeotons «ys asia Wp diee’n pa peasiee « $106 71 
EI ONE SE LETT Meh ea NN ae Nt 27 60 

79 II 

DISBURSEMENTS 

BPMOR OGG TD EABIT AN, te cl i es pak tas Gd pote tig oes 9 42 
IE sank i bias w's F alass RIK. WE Das wie’ CMa kcide mene bok 3,138 00 
Wee, ARR A MPA Na a cg ha wale RG Reade cl aire Co ee ie 727 16 
Wenveting “Waperises YO OR en ar add Fak aa gt 57 75 
Subscriptions to Executive Committee Ontario and Quebec.. 400 00 
Repairs and Renewaley iy vio. vo ii 904 Cw a dehis ceh 700 31 
Peetee Ae waaePeeeRtE wo ey. eRe oie My is ei te 349 20 
ROME OMe Ree EC Te des an CREE REL CE RL er ne 37 05 
LL a 2 apta landp Oestnabea baal br Acid etd) Aad ta A Ay 147 06 
Postage stanins Bud Cards, OPO Uo ILE At eee. ee 160 18 
SOMOIMEP LE. AULA, NDE, SGINLA VALINE. tie ae Maer) bate dy 240 46 
Newspapers and eriadicnls gia deer avd satin be wRREE Ease oan ea 157 28 
PRR OEO nS Bik coke pat wi5'4 ites Miata des rile a a ea 149 20 
IID ai dete sa Witash spin dnc ulacah ees Maleleed ath) aco gaa g 275 35 
PPI BY WEN ih onch c eR SARC SHR UE ire ol ae ee a Q 00 
REISE 5 «Sw O° aie h haw Ca eee CE a oe EO 61 14 
MAPICS <E ishls ALUE LOOT i. TOUS UE a ce Le 50 00 
Penevyotent GF imalush oi us wet biti h gu ues re Ah 48 35 
sg LR cet. 5 en a a RR RR nH UI SDR "203 02 
2 Dee ard rnd: eel ili Un da DR NS a ORI OR. ITEM TIE 120 00 


J. S. MCLACHLAN, 


Examined and found correct. 
JOHN McD. HAINS, 
ROD. MACKINNON, 


Zreasurer. 


} Auditors. 


$7229 94 


37 


LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS 


TO THE 


MONTREAL YOUNG MEN'S GHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION, 


For THE YEAR ENDING NOVEMBER 30TH, 1883. 


Ames, Holden & Co ........ 
Angus, R. B 
Ayer, A. A. & Co 
Anderson, Robt 
Ayer, A. A 
Alexander, Chas 


eoeeee ee ee F Bee Se @ 
oe @@ee ee ee + 
oeeweee eres eo @ 
oeeeweeeeeete ees oe @ 


Armstrong, Giiv'cn wn cee ow den 
Barrett, Dr 
Bell, Samuel 
Ruchanan, W. O 
Buchanan, R. 
TIPO, Ly S55 vee meee dene 0s 
Bell, Simpson & Co 
PAC ATIAT yA) WE RR eas a hae oie 
POR U ST. KC -seohtalgtehaads Yea) wi 96 loa 
Bedell & Glassford 
Brown, Jonathan............ 

Belding, Paul & Co........... 
Diack & LOCkes sis tise wey yess 
¢ BIOWN A Brose is vis bss él e 
Barrington & Son........ ... 
APG Asis ones h wave eins 

Benny, Macpherson & Co... 

Butterfield & Spencer 
Brodie & Harvie 
Boulter, Geos si aeiensscsdd lee 
Birks, Hy, & Co 
Botterel, G. H 
Bell, T.-D 


eeoeseeeeeee eee 


ceeeeoeeeeeee eee ee @ 


$25 00 
25 00 
25 00 
20 00 
IO 00 

00 


DRCMIREE A, pacieeen cack $5 00 
moewet, RB. Cs aed 5 00 
eeiseette, Mo Ree oo 5 00 
BEN, TRE a bins aug eg ee 5 00 
Gromn, A. An: De ae | 5 00 
BOG) Teo sccs any ad eee 5 900 
ecieets RA cr oe 4 00 
tenner Me... ee ace. 2 00 
PRAT, GEO. ov is ain sR I 00 
GOR, Tonk arisen sann ace ane 100 OO 
Carsley, S... 30 00 
CCR, Micdinn aukeulcc oeh os, 25 00 
RON Tico iui get Gate alae 25 00 
Cantlie, Ewan & Co......... 25 00 
Crathern & Caverhill... .... 25 00 
Cooper, Fairman & Co....... 25 00 
Glerk, ‘Alex, cdukin ead « 25 00 
CARER 6: saprtichensciatartae cle art IO OO 
CORTRIC, Je wind pew auaas We 2 IO 00 
Cassils, Stimson & Co........ IO 00 
Crombie, As Moco oak ch. IO 00 
Cochrane, Cassils & Co...... 10 OO 
Campbell, .K. & Co....0d/. ok: IO 00 
ren, Cie lee cs bsema's au tskc IO OO 
Clendinnetg, Wo od. Js oie. 52 IO 00 
RMON al ti non, 5's Le os cad 10 00 
Cormrne,. fag, i& Co, oo 0. < sa IO 00 
OOM Ei bnus tien eivessiend ae Oy:'30 28 
Conison, B. B. dt Co. ..n.0 7. 5 00 
RE Keck oy e's vas weet 0's 5 00 
Chrestmas,. DT sis oes aioe a oe 5 00 
RATEON, Jo dis drain einlsWSn ped 5 00 
Childs, Geo. & Co... .essee0. ° 5 00 
Canada Paper .Co.........6s00% 5 00 
CASH Ge DON. 40406 we oosdi-ceie 5 00 
Cleghorny J. Row s-c-0n0serecss, 5.00 


a a | a a re $5 00 
Currie, W. & F. P. & Co.... 5.00 
Copland & McLaren......... 5 00 
Converse, John A. .......0%% 5 00 
Corsa, ING B. cass in Kae 5 00 
CHOBE Gs 4 sii p-wmsnt Ae < eae oe 5 00 
ame, Us EE wp ons oman es 5 00 
Cuminiities. Bs Gas 's cain eane os 5 00 
Cirrie & MoLean. ofi.f yee 5 00 
Cheeseborough, J........+-0- 5 00 
RV RTE 0d SRO Rae Wie awe 5 00 
ang mel AS & & ssc wink voee's Obie 2 00 
GOWAN, TOR: i. i.nc- wtee db oe ode OVQIOD 
RS oo Sw vase Sara Pe sales I oO 
| eee Se One ee I 00 
NE Lard Weacceate ga cAhk sabrwhe 25 00 
TE Pe Ng NE caching is wie g 4, ey 25 00 
Diryadaley. Woeteicne 6 vse dnea's 25 00 
Bee, ofa. Diao aici ones saben pt SOD 
ini: Wiman: &. Co... 0.0608 IO 00 
TINE. FEED. ii teens p'nroreaew wi IO 00 
CPE WSON, IY «Bic nen care omnls 5 00 
RR hss Bak Lt a 9:0 + wh bir lend 5 00 
NARS his sacar ore shtnde asstoire tae 5 00 
Douglass & McNeice......... 5 00 
a vidson <2 .Co,.wisisinel eS 5 00 
TOA, Mosie suis ikaw gh Oh Mach 5 00 
Darling, Wm. & Co.......... 5 00 
RSET TOR ets, orien -Seprwrnrpieroveraraveie 5 00 
SPMD. WV 6s drei one's saved 5 00 
MM vadson, Fo oo 6G. ose UIs LG 5 00 
DPA WSOU,. i J) wrens ow wile ahsay 5 00 
POR he 2: 6tbd tees <3 5 00 
Dangerfield, W....0.0.. se: 00 2 00 
TINE OND ss o'ec ss nen arses I oO 
Bwine, 3. He & A. S06 eBo5e 25 00 
Perm, Gee oc eee ce tents ee I5 00 
Byars Bross oes. d ded 4 hbk IO 00 
PAV GRIST: Ge 60 6 aresisg essessersvantceis IO 00 
Heroyd, «E465. .04 WG, she 5 00 
a, - AL a ee ie 5 00 
J a | Sennen - aes Sep F 5 00 
PN A POT a so isdn onde 3 5 00 
POVSEIS, Jonccwsaes v0 04 Ol De 2 OS » 500 
TEV ANS, Ties U6 0 acters Dads MMER S 5 00 
EVENS, We. ciecscsvcons aaa 4/5660 
Geilintt, Tas. .inigs os0c0 cde « bin 100R500 


38 


RAINS, WO. 5s Va'eea sh he's + 3 eo 
6 IG EP ae NT eae 25 00 
PEIBOG. ACNE. ss o's gistewuna's oA OR 
Friend, per D. W. Ross...... 10 00 
MNEs SOUS. oa sien ee wine ws hea 5 00 
ig | ae SNe Ae ROL a ra 5 00 
a hes Ua Cech ee Sy eRe 5 00 
wrmmiran, TOs. Sak ub exes 2 00 
Pomwick, Rev iE. 8 to065.000.. I Oo 
Greenshields, S., the late... .. 500 00 
\rreane,. EB. Koka nt. 28 I0O 00 
Greene, .G, A... a 50 00 
Geremne, .XG60.. Ws op pn le ak 5° 00 
Grawt Bros, & Co... ol) cs... 25 00 
Greenshields, S. & Co.sdis.as s(n) 8B 00 
OMS TS xia whe wea de 25 00 
Gnaedinger, Son & Co....... IO 0O 
RTE a te a arch wie clink IO OO 
Goodyear Rubber Co.... ... IO 00 
Grimley, ROR. ore Ek as 5 00 
Getatttey. We Bs eds cen tel 11580 
Renttn, 1. &, CoA iat lian 5 00 
ianame, Lra:d& Sons, . Ct. 4. as 5 co 
eiepeearees on oc PTS i os 3 00 
ere, Ws ces cee ee te 2 00 
Grifiord, AV: Be ali bedeasts 2 00 
Dee, Fos ss a ony ME EL oth 2 00 
RG GA, ss acncas spay ioison ah 300 00 
PaaS Wes SS Bidain lens 50 00 
sound, KR... A Co. ..ik sve 25 00 
FHodgson,. Jonathan. . s.ssas6/ 25 00 
moenderson, R ... .ccs mined. 20 00 
Pete, TA csi ye oe 9 Sacha IO CO 
PeaeL OG, oss dv wees Cae IO 0O 
PO OEEIOW, TT, 5 pcos x wih ob slic IO 00 
Hughes & Stephenson........ 10 00 
Rheney, Fy VW) ok snes dowel IO CO 
Eienderson Bros ; ve wew ad «3,04 IO 0O 
aasnaereon, Wo. «14. areaelds 3 5 00 
SRAUSOR, : WG, > »5 00% + saab 5 00 
BROWALN : JIE 65 disk cok Ouse 5 00 

» Rakin pak e yee Se Rbe eb) 2 00 
EL  : ee ere ir area aigt = F 2 00 
PRAVEIN, DIIGS 4 5a so pic nee I 0O 
BES, te ho cee Rees os cee IO 0O 
Re Fe i Bos an en's bee 10 00 
SIV, Riese es ces cee Uren - 500 


Johnston, Jas. & Co...... ... $25 00 
Fawjeson,. R. C. Co. co nus 25 OO 
Jaqies, GE. & Coa... ctl. wesiee 
FRUNESON,- Bi. -eretara storeieverareaAd ocd IO 0O 
Johnson, Russell & Co....... 10 00 
Jackson Bros..... L weewtee ho 5 00 
Jones, Jo Wi & Coss nieve ve 5 00 
Johnston, - Jol Tas s ese e ceo 6 3 00 
Kingman; Asissisversvescts 250 00 
King, Wardens 24.4% 6.540 os 150 00 
Rreemnedy, Jove! shove dev ales IO 0O 
Kirk, Lockerby & Co........ IO 0O 
Minlock,y Ws Grwiwiwes sce ees 5 00 
PROMI GCOS 5 Wai sata secede 5 00 
King, Ware Cos iad conn 0, 006 
VIG, FOS 05. Sonn ede ath 5 00 
Leicester, A. (Liverpool, Eng.) 100 00 
Dew, Ws Pk Gey ng ccc on! FOR 
Lamon, 743. Go. So. Mists IO 00 
Learmont, J. B..... ........ 10 00 
Larmonth & ‘Sons... 02 See nesoo 
Lyman, Sons & Cos. aii et IO 00 
Tigatbound, Galea esis ot 5 00 
PRINS, OE ates oo bse. kv ae teh 5 00 
CVPR, LS Wes fetes Sag bh a 5 00 
Lawrie, Jno. & Brow. ieesceesse s 5 00 
cies A re 5 00 
Tigvet & Hamilton. +. 244% 3 5 00 
POM et We Pive sag. do0ie, 4 00 
AAI, FOE Nas oles Ve Pes 3 00 
PAAR ARS RY cto lets Wa ete ony e ah g 50 00 
Molson’s Bank $224.4. 5 Veu'® « 50 00 
Murphy, Jno. & Co........... 27 00 
Widler, Ri; Son’ & Co... '.05i2 25 00 
Mackay’ Bros). 326.244. wee “SE GO 
Mills & Hutchison........... 20 00 
Moseley, hc Fo Cow eso led 96 Oo 
mM coney, ‘J. Ti. & Senso. 606 IO 00 
moon Te Lees fie ciel Io 0O 
DAGICOn, TASS WS ee ie g IO OO 
POS REE s is Oe ad Koad 5 00 
POOR el oil a dale hee ete Y 5 00 
PN POSS Seo ee et 5 00 
Miller Bros. & Mitchell....... 5 00 
Munderloh, “W.-C... 65501 646 5 00 
MACRWIAY, Busas os i454 tee 4 ee 
May, TOE GOs wacbssienns) eee 


39 


Mudge, N. SLOTS: 
Orasor, Foes cave b aeds 
DOGG WAO Ty <5 00 vse hk wad 
Melbenngr. H.. dose wsad-.ll- 
McLachlan Bros. & Co....... 
McDougall, Logie & Co...... 
MOMGIATeD, Je hiessiis.saiess cele oft 
McLean, J. & Co.. d 

McFarlane, Austin & A Abebicih 
Mcharen, J. (oes sisn 04 0s Oe a 
Mckedie, J. W).to ta... 5 
MeckKeown, RB...) Seaiieedl: 
McIndoe & Vaughan......... 
McPherson & Alexander..... 
Mebwren; W. 1)... 0bk ewe. 
MacDonald, J.. B..i.0wed.cdes 
McGibbon, A... ..6.0:37 dde2h 
McCallum, Dr. D.C. ..8...544 
McLeod & Shotton.......... 
McoW oody Wr vsniues ec paeedal 
MatPhatl): Dy inst ue a 
McLaughlan, Mrs........... 
McDunnough, ‘Woe wes Mares. 
McDonald,. D..J. . .ssinsk vee 
Nelson, H. A. & Sons........ 
Nelson, H. Aw... SORE. 


NiGhOlss J cecsseh e db threnls 
Ogilvie, A. W. & Co........ 
Osher, Dor isles 6 v4 ON 
Potter & Savages iss oes. 
Porteous, JOM ..:.cce d wdc JN 
Paékard,. L.-H.-&.Co. ..isah « 


Perry, Davis, Son & Lawrence. 
Patterson, Ws Joys OT. oi 
Prowse GG: Ba vow Kli 
wieneny Je De oe TL 
PIMPS AG Os- Jose iW. Veet sa 
Paliher-& Son -:2F8 5 sie SUE 
PophaMy JRO. es ooo io sh. ee 
Putnam, “HH: Ts: ss: 


Peck, Benny & Co.......... 
PRON, Soe P Vids 4a vee vend o's 
WARE, DOSES 66 oo reed de 
Wotter, Thos. Ji sss. in towe ade 
PaChet, Cho Biciaiaaah een 
PAM, Wie Cian ve uwickm ahs 
paves, Gerd. i) 20s cel 
PATEGODS,» Pas TR 4 e)e HO SURO hae We 
PRLS SO, Joie saiareisie'sse-ahe Ss 
PMS, CMOS 5 ys oa cided abs vies 
POVERTY PROT Oi ss kk 
Redpath) Mes. «oes osteo 
BE TR didlo d he al hin ae 0% 
Rankin, Beattie & Co........ 
PAMISAYs Air nieces iV s eee 
Robertson, Linton & Co...... 
Peet OE OW mira op vivian wh 6 Se 
Richardson, -Jas.e.eiteiseces 
meford, Robt & Co. . o'. 0. saa 
Bees, ORE BES oh 8 catels fists 
peeuge, .'. 4 ss washes oh 2 
PP Fe Bei, wie byw ow oh 
manray. T&Cs oo aes ek 
Ralston, P. & Sons. .s)y'. on whale 
RpURCCTE The OT... a ls shew 
PO OTSO Tin x's oe be Ct why 
Reema. hs Baise ee (ecole. 
Riddell & Stevenson......... 
Ransom, Forbes & Co........ 
ee a. Ce” Oe ge 
Richards, Jos.... .. hain oop. i 
eg Fee i st 


AMERY, si, spo sae bark oe 
monertent, AL Eos... wkcesle oa 
Pipettes 3, 355 va diese Gl ANS 
BeGahy VIR bc kk 8 ho dadeal el + ce 
Pe Gak Wore ee Os a ke ey 
Sreneres G0: .'. ce eats silaly 

Rereitn, 1. aatray.., ..., 2.5 0k «He 
ava’, AsO SOM, ose pieide eh 


Sutherland, Lindsay & Co.... 
piney, 19. & 06 se Dc deh 
Shaw Bros. & Cassils........ 


PtP OON SCA ese an awit b 4k 


8 8 8 


OO 


40 


stevenson, J.iA..u¥ 2.2 edised hit 
OO Wi oie inhie's One oS arate bye, 8 
ATS, TOT smo Ogih atkcaahs ar 
PRMONNIOR,: DReliecna.ccr asad 
Brith, ALOX.. .2.0:dh ) cle xld eee 
Seen, Ax. Fs.C, .. snc aagesie 
shaw & Gowdey....%) 3 see st. 
Us. VS o's sca tek d 8 bie eld 98 
PRES, Ans vakiady ope pete oe 
en ee BR: BRR repay nes 
Prmemer Gy. os ks edad « hed Fou 


ose ee a a ee Re 
Tees, Costigan & Wilson..... 
PS YN issn ain ee ck hath eae ole 
Lomance, 1). & COs ens vk + on 
weeer, 1. Wa CO. Ls chads on 
SMM, TOR... os ance nto ple 
Torrance, Judge 
iborrance, Ws. Bi. @ CO Ou. cree 
EPANOL, Lo ksh pc aye css saa 
Unitarian, W. 4), 5.0% ogee atts 
WINONA, AF. .6,i:5,¢,s,eNd saaenyls 
Oy BOG, WV. a. o's 6 45 x0 sereie 
SV MESO: TEs c's. «star mneniakes A 
Wy tatley YOR. yee poy > She Wt 
Wilson, Paterson & Co....... 
Ey Be, Cea PrN: ae 
DY GUNN, “Fee AS. ho shee o inateh es 
Whitham, J 
WY MAMATISOR, J sory F 5%, opens abe 
We eS GeO. hp 8 ein gape eles 
Wightman, A. R. . psjapbes sii 
Mths a Rca eth Os ee 
Warminton, R. & W........ 
Wy akon Col seth ah 
MN Mire EDs RR esse ee Be 


MV HOY, ALD aka eee eds 
WY OUL0S8. TIE ec a's, + ne ot 


MEETINGS 


OF THE 


YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION. 


Brecinners’ bisie-Ciass.—Sunday mornings, at 9.30 to 10.30 o’clock. 
EVANGELISTIC Brpte-Ciass.—Sunday afternoons, at 3 o'clock. 


GosPEL TEMPERANCE Meretine.—Sunday afternoons, at 4.15 o’clock. 


{VANGELISTIC Mgrgtrinc—AssocraTion Haii.—Sunday evenings, at 


8.30 o'clock. 
PROF. FENWICK’S BIBLE-CLASS.—Tuesday evenings, at 8 o’clock. 
Boys’ Mrrtine.—Friday evenings, at 8 o’clock. 


YOUNG MEN’S MEETING. 


Saturday evenings, at 8 o’clock. 


Noon Day Prayer Meretinc.—12.15 to 1 o’clock. 


RAILWAY BRANCH—POINT ST. CHARLES. 


BIBLE-CLASS.—Sunday mornings, at 9.30 o’clock. 


GOSPEL AND SonG SERvVICE.—Sunday afternoons, at 3.30 o'clock. 


