REPORT 


OF THE 


Montreal Young Men's Christian Association, 


ADOPTED AT THE 


ANNUAL MEETING, 


HELD ON 


TUESDAY EVENING, 24th NOVEMBER, 1863. 


OFFICERS FOR THE YEAR 1864. 


Presipent—T. JAMES CLAXTON. 


Vicr-PRESIDENTS. 


THOS. LEEMING, A. McK. COCHRANE, 
W. C. MENZIES, THOS. HOBSON. 


TREASURER—JAMES ROSS. 
CorRESPONDING SECRETARY—J. REDPATH DOUGALL. 
REcorDING SecreTARY—C. C. MACDOUGALL. 


COMMITTEE : 
W. C. DUTTON, M. PRYNNHE, 
J. R. MIDDLEMISS, R. McKENZIE, 
THOS. AUBIN, JAMES JARDINE, 
C. R. BLACK, D. BENTLEY, 
GEO. FILER, EK. K. GREENE, 


CALEB 8S. DeWITT, JAS. ROBERTSON. 


MONTREAL—PRINTED BY JAMES STARKE & CO. 


Ht brete, 


J 
Hh, 


THE FOLLOWING 


STANDING COMMITTEES 


Have been appointed by the President for the ensuing year : 


MISSION, 


W.C. Menzins, Chairman. 
Tos. Hoxson, R. MoKenzin, 
Jas. JARDINE, W. C. Dutton. 


LECTURES, CLASSES, AND MEETINGS. 


D. Bentiey, Chairman. 
J. R. Dovgatt, M. PRyYNNE, 


THos. AUBIN, Jas. RoperTson, 
C.S8. DeWirr. 


ROOMS AND LIBRARY. 


A. MoK. Cocuranez, Chairman. 
J. R. Mippemiss, Grorgse Fier. 


FINANCIAL. 


T. Lemming, Chairman. 
C. R. Buack, E. K. Greene. 


MEMBERSHIP COMMITTEE. 


D, McoFaruans, Chairman. 


J. D. Doveatt, S. Eneuisu, 
J. AIKIN, P. J. Darny, 
S.C. Kytz, R. KneESHAW, 
W.H. A. Buatcourorp, Hy. Sanpyam, 
Harry McLaren, Wm. Ret, 

D. Tzxzs, Cuas. Munro. 


The Missionaries of the Society are Mr. Sami. Massuy and Mr. Jonny 
MILLEN. 


{ 
Hi 
i 

i) 

P| 

} 

§ 


} 
) 
i! 


abuses 


Superintendent of Rooms,..... aia cate W. Wiis. 


ae a a es Eee shtin 


COT IT # 


REPORT. 


Tur “Montreat Youna Mrn’s CuristrAn ASsociaTion, ’— 
organized on the 25th November, 1851, and, consequently, just 
twelve years old to-day,—was looked upon, by those who loved it 
best, as at the point of death in the month of November last year. 
On the 17th of that month, ten members met in a little room in the 
Mechanics’ Institute,—which had served as an Association-room for 
six months,—to decide the important question, whether the Associa- 
tion should be disbanded, or not. After prayer and conference, it 
was unanimously, and much to the gratification of all, resolved to 
set energetically about the work of resuscitation. To-day, we have 
to thank God, that He has made it hard to believe that such a scene 
is but a year old. A week after the meeting just mentioned, the 
Annual Meeting was held in the same place, but the number being 
still small, business was postponed to an adjourned meeting, to be 
held in a social manner; and Mr. Grafton, the retiring President, 
interested those present with an account of the early days of the 
Society. At the adjourned meeting, held in the new building of the 
First Baptist Church,—the same which had, in St. Helen Street, 
afforded shelter to the first meetings of the Association,—large 
additions of names were made to the rolls of the Society; and the 
Committee now reporting was elected. Since that time, the Al- 
mighty has not ceased to enlarge the sphere of the Society’s oppor- 
tunities for usefulness. 

The following Report will be divided into heads, according to 
the Sub-Committees to which the labour has been assigned,—begin- 
ning with our, at present, most important work, that of— 


CITY MISSIONS. 


The work formerly entrusted to the Mission Committee was the 
supervision of the labours of the Society’s two Missionaries, Messrs. 


4 


Massey and Millen; but, during the past year, other very: important 
efforts have been added to this long-established one. 


Cortace Mrerinas,—On the 15th of December, Mr. MacDou- 
gall, chairman of the Mission Committee, moved “ That twenty-four 
members of the Society should be appointed to co-operate actively 
with the Missionaries by holding cottage-meetings and visitation.” 
The motion being passed, the whole number required at once volun- 
teered for the work. By these, the city was portioned off into SIX 
districts,—a chairman and several assistants being put in charge of 
each. 

Of District No. 1, no reports are preserved. 

No. 2, in charge of Mr. J. D. Dougall, held ten meetings, with a 
small average attendance, in a small room in Chaboillez Street ; 
Corporal Lindsay and other brethren doing what they might to up- 
hold the work. 

Of No. 3, Mr. Hy. Millen reports the establishment of one small 
but useful meeting in a somewhat French neighborhood in St. Urbain 
Street, at which sone interesting work of awakening and revival 
was seen. 

Mr. Robt. Mackenzie, chairman of No. 4, with several co-workers, 
among whom Sergeant-Major Davis was untiring, kept up a meeting 
which lasted to the end of April, and received encouragement from 
the Lord, and assistance from some of those who attended. 

No. 5 was under Mr. Black’s charge, and was very efficiently 
worked by Messrs. MacDougall, Hobson, Millen, Kneeshaw, and 
others. Seventeen meetings were held in two places before the 
month of April, of which no reports are fyled. 

In No. 6 (Mr. W. Dutton, chairman), two meetings were also sus- 
tained; one at the house of a colored family,—Corporal Herbert 
and Messrs. Millen, Wyard, and Hobson being among the workers, 
The work was here also acknowledged of the Lord. Mr. Dutton 
Says, In one report, “‘ We can indeed say that our Heavenly Father 
is honouring our labors.” 

From these meetings,—although probably but a small part of the 
result was visible,—much good was certainly gained in inducing 
young Christians to put their hands to the plough, in the application 
of talents, yet untried, to the Lord’s uses ; and even in the induc- 
ing of some who were up in years to speak for Christ among their 


friends, and thus perhaps, for the first time, to confess Him before 
men. Owing to the urgency of business, and the premonitions of a 
falling-off in attendance, these meetings were given up for the sum- 
mer, to be revived (God willing) during the present season. When 
again proposed, a few weeks ago, action was left for the new 
Committee. 


Cotiece-Street Mrxtine.—A meeting of a somewhat different 
character,—which was started early last winter at the rooms of the 
American Presbyterian Society’s Free School in College Street by 
Messrs. MacDougall, Jardine, and others,—was, at the beginning of 
May, organized by the appointment of a committee of twelve and 
the election of a chairman (Mr. Jardine), who has since then re- 
ported monthly to the Mission Committee. The members of this 
committee divided Griffintown into districts, which they visited 
two by two on Sunday afternoons. Introducing themselves with a 
tract, they were generally asked to come in, upon which they would 
turn conversation to the matters of the soul, generally engaging in 
prayer before departure. In May, a tea-meeting was given to the 
usual attendants at this meeting, who are of the poorer class, and a 
penny-savings scheme was set agoing, which commenced with an 
average weekly deposit of seventy cents, but which continued gra- 
dually to increase. In return for the energetic measures employed, ’ 
we find Mr. Jardine’s reports, month after month, full of encourage- 
ment and good hopes, and these well justified by the ever-increasing 
numbers in attendance,—August, the most unlikely of months, 
showing a larger attendance than any before it. Like all other 
missionaries, these workers report a generally kind reception, but 
much carelessness and great destitution, which they ascribe almost 
wholly to strong drink. 


SarLors’ Tract Distrrpurors.—On the 14th of April, Messrs. 
Kneeshaw and Mackenzie brought forward a motion recommending 
the appointment of a committee to distribute tracts and hold reli- 
gious conversations with the sailors on Sunday mornings, subjoining 
a list of names of volunteers for the work, most of whom had been 
similarly engaged during the past season. These tract-distributors 
were immediately organized under the control of the Mission Com- 
mittee, Mr. R. Kneeshaw being elected chairman, and Mr. Macken- 


wie vice-chairman. ‘The wharves and canal locks were portioned out 
into nine districts, each having its requisite number of labourers, 
and a chairman, who was to visit his district on Saturday evening, 
to learn its requirements. Every worker had to be at his post, 
either in person or by substitute, at an appointed hour on Sunday 
morning between half-past six and ten o’clock, as each district 
should arrange. District 9, from Victoria Pier downwards, was 
found to be already efficiently worked by the Quebec-Suburbs Wes- 
leyan Church, and was therefore untouched by this committee. The 
Sailors’ Tract Distributors have held fortnightly meetings for prayer 
and mutual encouragement, at the rooms. Their work among our 
many thousand unsettled and generally neglected ship and boat hands 
cannot but be regarded as important, and their reports say the 
encourayements in it far outweigh the discouragements. The tracts 
distributed were in the following nine languages, and namenieglly 
somewhat in the following order :—English, French, Danish, Swed- 
ish, German, Italian, Welsh, Portuguese, and Spanish. The supply 
of tracts at the Tract Society’s Depositary, freely put at the disposal - 
of our workmen, has not been always equal to the demand,—the 
principal lack being in French tracts, a lack which the Tract Society 
is doing its best to meet. These French tracts are the only ones 
which have been frequently refused,—of course, by the Catholic boat 


‘hands. The interest which these foreign tracts must possess to those 


who receive them could only be appreciated by those who have spent 
months and years far removed from native land and native tongue. 
The number of visits to vessels during the season has been 2 438 ; 
and the number of tracts, in all (ieee aeraa, distributed 21,275 ; the 
principal month of the year being June. 


Mr. Massey’s Work Amone THE SEAmMEN.—Mr. Massey has, 
since his arrival here ten years ago, earned for himself the name of 
the ‘Sailors’ Missionary.” The sailors now expect to meet him on 
the look-out for their arrival; and many are the kindly and respect- 
ful recognitions he receives from generous men, who know how to 
be thankful for a kindness. The vessels are boarded on arrival, and 
tracts distributed to all hands. The men are warned from the 
taverns, and told of the Sailors’ Institute, while advice of still 
greater import is offered as occasion admits. This service is gene- 
rally received with thanks, and also appreciated by the captains, 
who frequently offer their ships for Bethel services. 


The Bible Society has, as in former years, enabled Mr. Massey to 
supply all sailors who do not possess it with the Word of God; and, 
with the exception of a short season, when the supply fell short, 
scarcely a sailor has been allowed to leave the port without a copy. 
When they take them, they generally promise faithfully to read 
them, to keep them in their chest, and take them with them where- 
ever they go. ‘This year, five hundred sea-going vessels have been 
in port, with about 8,952 sailors, a larger number than ever before ; 
and Mr. Massey thinks that the proportion of those who were stran- 
gers to the port was also very much larger than usual. Deducting 
from this the number of additional visits of the same men, and 
adding in the river boat and barge hands we have a total in this 
field of labour of perhaps 15,000 strong men, who are at present, 
in a great measure, dependent on this Society and its supporters for 
the Word of Life. To these, the number of Bibles and Testaments 
given has been 603, in seven languages, as follows:—English, 569 ; 
German, 21; Italian, 4; Danish, 4; French,3; Gaelic, 1; Swedish, 1. 

How inestimable are the results of this work! However weak 
the hands of the labourer, however unsuccessful his preaching and 
teaching, he can here speak of something done; seed sown beside 
all waters,—a seed with a life in it, and with a promise oft repeated 
of a plenteous harvest. The following may be taken as an instance 
of how the Bibles are used :—One sailor, who had got one last year, 
said he had often read it, and that, having a good many hands on 
board and very few Bibles, the others had borrowed it on Sundays. 
He thought it had done good. Having lost his wife recently, he 
found the book a great consolation. Knowing thus that the Bibles 
are read, and remembering how they may be carried from crew to 
crew and from sea to sea, who can tell what text may do the work 
of the Spirit’s sword, or what heart it may pierce ? 

Bethel meetings have been held regularly at the Sailors’ In- 
stitute, McGill Street; as well as on Sunday mornings and at other 
times on board various ships,—if weather made it necessary, in the 
cabin,—but generally on deck or between decks, and, if at night, 
often by the light of a solitary lamp, just sufficient to enable the 
missionary to read. The hands attend such meetings in goodly 
numbers, and may be seen with the Bibles which they have re- 
ceived, and of which, as gifts, they appear sufficiently proud. <A 
number of the captains are also in the habit of attending, when 
business is not too pressing. 


A strange interest connects itself with these meetings, which is 
not awakened by the grandest service under the ceiling of a church. 
At one time, we find our labourer among his hardy and now solemn 
hearers under the still starlight, hardly a sound from the city, and 
apparently nothing between them and God, as he bids them stand 
up for Jesus and not be ashamed of the Gospel of Christ. Again, 
he is in the cabin, whose shelter has been sought from the inclem- 
ency of the weather. The storm draws nearer and the thunder 
grows louder, and suddenly the mast is shivered by the lightning, 
while its awful voice brings the assembly to their knees.* 

There is something more done, however, besides the distribution 
of tracts and bibles and the holding of meetings: sailors are con- 
versed with privately, and especially when affliction gives them the 
listening ear. A sailor-boy, the eldest of a large family, on arriving 
in port, found a letter telling him of the death of his father. Mr. 
Massey found him, and directed him for sympathy to Him who 
wept at the grave of Lazarus. The boy’s answer through his tears 
was, ‘‘Surely the Lord sent you to me.” <A large number of 
sailors have been visited in hospital, and many others in their own 
berths. One of this number had been sent to jail, on arriving in 
port, by his captain to save his life, as he had twice narrowly escaped 
death while the worse of liquor. His chief companion, one with 
whom he had spent “a deal of money,” had been drowned a few 
nights before. When the missionary found him, he was anxious. 
He had been with Havelock in Persia and India, and had been at 
the Crimea; during which time he had been an infidel, and was full 
of all kinds of wickedness. He had spentin Liverpool, after one voy- 
age, £40 in drink. He had lost his infidel views by reading a book of 
martyrs, and now that his sickness enabled him to think, he had 
resolved, with God’s help, to turn over a new leaf. He signed the 
pledge, listened to Scripture, and received a copy of the “Friend 
of Sinners,’ whose author, he was told, was once like himself. Such 
is the work; a work of faith, in which the missionary asks for and 
needs our prayers. 


Tue Satcors’ Insrrrure.—This Association long cherished a 
design of supplying the sailors with a suitable rendezvous in the 


* This took place on the evening of 8th September, 1863. 


SG 


= 


a a rs 4 =; rt = “ = =z ~ - 
SS SSS pees 


2 
- - ee —~—— 2 
= 2 ee a a Ae 
= eS ee ae 
7 = = t 


eity. With this view, it took its former rooms in McGill Street, 
which were used very freely by seamen. The object was, however, 
taken up two years ago by Mr. J. P. Clark, and is now efficiently 
worked by that gentleman in the spacious rooms which he has pro- 
vided in McGill Street. There the men find reading, writing ma- 
terials, &c., special amusement of an instructive kind, on one night 
of the week, and religious service on Sunday evenings. 

It may not be thought how much effect such labours as these have 
in securing quiet on our wharves and saving work to the police. It 
is a fact, that a noticeable improvement has taken place in the ap- 
pearance of the port on Sundays, and that itis exemplary in a moral 
point of view. On the other hand, both captains and sailors agree 
that there is no port where so much interest is taken in the sailor. 

Mr. Massey received, on the 15th October,—the tenth anniversary 
of his arrival in this port,—from ship-captains and others interested 
in seamen, a handsome present of a Bible, watch, and purse, worth 
in all about two hundred dollars,—a voluntary, and therefore 
valuable, proof of the esteem in which they hold his work. The 
reason that they esteem it is, that many of them are earnest praying 
men. 


Immicrants.—But a small proportion of the immigrants who 
arrive now, remain in Montreal; the greater part either stopping in 
Quebec and coming up afterwards by degrees, or passing directly 
through by rail. Those who land at the wharf are generally ad- 
dressed by our missionaries. This spring, a suitable tract by Mr. 
Massey entitled “ Hints to Emigrants,” made up of cautions very 
necessary to them, was reprinted and widely circulated among them. 
Of this class, four boys were more especially consigned to the 
care of the Association by the superintendent of a reformatory 
school in Glasgow, who gave them good characters. One of these 
youths, after being forwarded beyond Hamilton, returned to Scot- 
land. The other three are, so far as we are able to learn by 
correspondence, doing fairly ; one in Lower Canada, and the others 
in Canada West. From the correspondence had concerning them, 
it became evident that a comfortable subsistence could be found in 
this country for a large number of such youths, could their charac- 
ter be in any way guaranteed. 


10 


Under this head, may be mentioned the fact, that Mr. Massey has 
been enabled to send to their homes in England several who had 
been left destitute in this country. Two of these were young men 
rendered helpless by sickness, for whom free passages were obtained ; 
and a woman, with three small children, whose husband had died 
suddenly, leaving her helpless, was sent to her friends by steamer by 
a private subscription. For objects like these, funds are at times 
put into the hands of our missionary, which are credited perhaps in 
no report save that in which the Faithful Promiser registers treasure 
laid up in heaven. 


Tt was men- 


Mr. Minuen’s Work AMONG THE SOLDIERS. 
tioned, in a report rendered six months ago at Chicago, that the 
number of Christian soldiers in our garrison had increased tenfold 
since their arrival among us, now two years ago, and. that this Asso- 
ciation was thankful to have had a fair share in the blessed work. 
Mr. Millen has devoted much of his time to them, having visited the 
barracks of every regiment, except the two battalions of Guards, once 
a month at least; and he seems to find the labour more and more 
pleasing. When we opened the rooms opposite these in the begin- 
ning of the present year, they were offered to the brethren in the 
army as a rendezvous and praying place, and, had the rooms been 
good for nothing else, this object would have made them worth their 
rent. Besides stepping in at all hours of the day, they have main- 
tained a daily prayer-meeting between five and six o'clock, P.M. 

One evening in the month of February last, seventy Christian sol- 
diers met to take tea in the rooms we then used; and, a short time 
afterwards, some four hundred of the garrison assembled at a soiree 


at Nordheimers’ Hall, and listened to some good addresses. When 


the 47th Regiment was on the point of departure for Kingston, some 
thirty brethren in it were again invited to the rooms and commended 
to God for guidance amid new scenes. Of the 16th Regiment, about 
twelve have been converted in Montreal. One of these says, that 
once, in church, one sentence shed light and almost immediate 
gladness into, his soul,—‘If salvation is by faith, why not now?” 
Among the Artillery also, there are some conversions, and others 
are trying to come to Jesus. By these, as well as by the men of the 
Military Train (Hochelaga), Mr. Millen is received with hearty 


11 


kindness; and the Christian soldiers, like the sailors, are overflowing 
in their thanks. The missionary bids them testify their gratitude 
by giving themselves wholly to the Lord; and assuredly the Society 
has reaped as well as sown, for, as the above reports show, the devout 
soldiers have been in the van of many of our efforts. Having the 
time, they have also the ability and the will to be useful. 


Tue GenerAL Hosprrau.—Messrs. Massey and Millen both 
visit this institution frequently, and meetings are maintained on 
several nights of the week by them and others. Last winter, meet- 
ings were kept up on Sabbath mornings by Mr. Massey, but when 
he was called away by the arrival of the spring fleet, his place was 
filled by others. These meetings were replete with that kind of 
interest which Christians look for most earnestly. Many were 
melted to penitence and tears, and Mr. Massey used to call during the 
week to learn who were inquiring. Some of the meetings resulted 
in two or three apparently réal conversions. ‘The bedside work of 
the missionary in this home of those who are between life and 
death is exceedingly important and often blessed, 


Tur Jain.—A painful part of Mr. Massey’s work is the visitation 
of the Jail; and, concerning this institution, we feel called upon 
plainly to add our testimony to that of many a Grand Jury, in 
representing its moral influences to be bad, and our belief, that it 
reciprocates in a measure the tribute paid to it by the dens of 
infamy of the city by sending forth many of its inmates more har- 
dened than before. We do not speak of the Jailer, except in terms 
of the highest commendation; but the want of classification, for 
which the present building affords no conveniences, and the want of 
discipline, make our Jail a pleasant resting-place for the hardened 
criminal, and a place of degradation for any unfortunate sent thither 
before moral sensibility is entirely gone. Mr. Massey’s visits are 
well received, and he takes pains to supply. them with good litera- 
ture, leaving tracts and lending small books to as many as will read 
them. Although kind in their reception of such, their hearts are 
hard to find; yet, at times, the deepest penitence is manifested. 
Among the incidents of labour in the Jail, one may be cited which 


12 


will show the need of a new charity in the city. In the jail-hospital, 
a cripple is found who delights much in the Bible and other 
books provided by Mr. Massey, and who seems to be not far from 
the Kingdom. He has been there now three years, not because he 
is a criminal, but because he is helpless. He must either be there or 
on the streets. 


THe Femate Rerues, generally known as the Magdalen 
Asylum,—for whose support an appeal has just been made to the 
public,—has been the scene of an interesting work. After reading 
the Scripture one day to the inmates, urging them to flee from the 
wrath to come, Mr. Massey observed them to be more than usually 
serious. ‘I requested those,” he says in his journal, “who were 
anxious about their souls, to return to the room, one at a time, after 
the meeting, and I would pray for them. Some eight of them did 
so, and said they felt themselves to be great sinners. As I prayed 
with them, several wept bitterly, and it did seem as if the Spirit of 
God was working in them.’ The evil, from the outskirts of whose 
domain this most Christian institution seeks to snatch here and 
there a victim, meets those who penetrate the darkness of vice in its 
horrors. Once during the summer, two respectable-looking unfortu- 
nates called on Mr. Massey to take him to see a dying companion. 
They took him to the house they lived in, and he was shown into a 
darkened room, where, by the light of a candle at mid-day, he dis- 
covered, on a heap of rags and dirt, the corpse of a good-looking 
girl The young women, one of whom was sister to the deceased, 
fell into passionate grief on seeing that she was dead; and the 
wretched keeper of the house (who had administered whiskey to the 
dying one almost to the last) and his wife looked stolidly on. Amid 
this appalling scene, the missionary, pointing to the dead, called the 
attention of those around him to their awful sinfulness and wretch- 
edness. The sister of the dead girl seemed almost heart-broken, and 
promised to lead a new life, but she is now heedlessly treading the 
same broad path as before. These sisters came here but two years 
ago respectable milliners,-but being strangers, were led astray. Two 
years of sin, and the most horrible of deaths! Who knows of the 
many whose history is just this? Most of them led into temptation 
through being strangers, either from the country or still oftener from 
across the Atlantic, far from the home which would have imposed 


13 


its gentle restraints upon their waywardness. One of these, from 
whose cheek the flush of former health and beauty had been long 
wiped out by years spent between the jail, hospital, and abodes of sin, 
being visited in sickness by Mr. Massey, received him with apparent 
concern and contrition ; but, scareely had he left the chamber, when 
she boasted of having gulled him. The social evil, although here 
and there curtailed, seems on the whole to be on the increase; and 
a fact mentioned by Mr. Massey would, if generally known by 
parents, cause wide-spread alarm. One house being broken up, 
many heavy fines were paid by young men. Within a few rods of 
the same house are twelve others. How are they all supported ? 
It is a fearful question. 


Oruer InsTituTIons.—The House of Refuge in Fortification 
Lane, one of whose inmates is over a-hundred years old, adds a 
little work to the missionaries; and visits to the St. Andrew’s Home, 
Ladies’ Benevolent and other institutions have been kept up, in 
some cases with visible fruit. 


Hovssz-To-Housz Work.—Visits to the homes of the people, 
especially where sickness makes the call more appropriate, 1s ever 
the principal part of the city missionaries’ work. And, in it, they 
are called upon to meet with almost every phase of human misery, 
between the neat home of the mechanic where unrestrained appetite 
is sowing the seeds of sorrow, and the drunkard’s den or the poor 
furnitureless hut of the gipsy. In this work, the same cry 
seems to rise from every report against the one great enemy of 
the cause which overshadows every other. Should this Report 
omit each year to speak in the severest terms against everything 
which encourages the prevailing intemperance of this city, it could 
only be by omitting a large portion of its missionaries’ monthly 
statements; for there is no subject so unchanging with them, or 
referred to in such strong language, as the deadly enmity of this sin 
to their usefulness. It seems to come new into their minds every 
time they write as the great evil against which they must bear wit- 
ness, and of whose ravages Christians can see so little. It is only 
by meeting it thus in detail and at every corner that its enmity to 
good can be measured. A single day’s work, copied at the close of 


14 


this Report from Mr. Massey’s journal, will shed a little light on 
every-day work; while the following incidents show with what 
reason strong feelings are manifested on the subject:—Mr. Millen 
found, in one room, pools of blood all over the floor. On a chair, 
sat a woman almost naked, with blood streaming from her limbs and 
head ; while, near by, stood the husband partially intoxicated and 
spattered with blood, declaring that she ought to be killed. Here, 
he finds husband and wife both stupid, and scolding each other: 
and again, he seeks out a family that lives in a filthy yard, from 
which he descends by a most disagreeable entrance into a cellar, 
whose damp and impure atmosphere seems to make life impossible 
there, to find a mother and daughter living in sin. Mr. Massey, 
entering a house one day, was met by the mother drunk and 
hardly able to stand, then by the daughter, also drunk; a young 
man, believed to be the son, being at the same time in the most dis- 
custing stage of intoxication. He knew this family well, the father 
having been a member of his own Bible-class, but now a drunkard 
also. This house is wretched indeed. Next to drink and its com- 
panion idleness, the natural indifierence to religion, and hardness 
and pride of heart, are opponents which meet alike the missionary 
to the poor and the pastor of the wealthy. 


Yet among discouragements and sowing in tears, there is not a 
little joyful reaping, notwithstanding the hard unyielding nature of 
the soil; and the stories told, though mostly so, are not all of them 
sad. Cases of hopeful cenversions and beautiful developments of 
Christian character are mentioned in the journals under most varied 
circumstances. Mr. Millen went, a short time ago, to see a sabbath- 
school boy, about nine years of age, who was dying. He found him 
full of his happy prospects of being with the Saviour. When asked 
if he wished to die, he said ‘‘ Yes; for if he did not, he might grow 
up a sinner.’ Mr. Massey called on a poor sick old man, who was 
reading his Bible with two Commentaries, Scott (Calvinist) and 
Clarke (Armenian). ‘‘ Qh!” said he, “what a relief it is, after 
reading these, to turn to the good old book itself! We need no 
other book.” 


On Christmas last, twenty-five poor families were supplied with 
Christmas cheer, in the shape of roast beef and plum pudding, by 
Mr. Claxton through Mr. Massey. 


15 


PRAYER AND Co-oPERATION.—In concluding our report of this 
department, we would repeat to the Society and to the supporters of 
the Mission the constant appeals of the missionaries for prayers and 
co-operation. The work is so vast, and the means, in a worldly 
point of view, so infinitely small, that none can help seeing that 
those engaged in it need to have their hands upheld by prayer, by 
sympathy, and by zealous co-operation. 


The following table shows, in small compass, the results of the 
work of the year :— 
SUMMARY OF MISSION WORK FOR 1863. 


a en ee ee a me 


| 


| Members 
Mr. Massey. | Mr. Millen. | of ToraLs. 
| Association. 
Fao amma ed UE) Rs i 
Tracts distributed in various lan- 

dt ee oe Sa a anh art 40230 | 29170 21275s.7.p| 90675 
“Hints to Emigrants” ...3. 2.0% 550 aha s tie wt 550 
Papers for Young Men ......... 45 bs ES 45 
Books and Periodicals lent and | 

EV Bs Wale» 44s pais bad SNR Pcie 14 NCO, fake SNM 311 
Copies of Holy Scriptures, in 7) 7 

LATE UA OR tani oth nidceierah wine orden | 603 woe ee eee eee oS 
Family and sick visits , . i+...» |} 2081 3715 | 5796 
Visits to Vessels in Port...... ; 879 ES t pigs FP yl MOS8 TT 
Visits te, Barracks) y-. i careie sie cm as ss tis 59. | — rr 
Visits to Military Hospital...... tiie oe tiaas.” ae a ft 8 
Visits to General Hospital...... 70 | aia em ge | 103 
Viaite to Vahl ues 3 Uo kanes P EP, Beas UTIs RRA a, 37 
Visits to Magdalen Asylum..... 39 57 ee 96 
Visits to other Institutions..... | 10 63 rap ech 13 
Mission Sabb. Schools held..... mos Ogee 6A 52 
Young Men aided, &c. ........ serpy 42 he 
Signed Temperance Pledge..... 4 | A a Ee 8 
Situations obtained’... 020 0..0% 9 OO has babel 13 
Funeral Services conducted.....) ©. 2 | the bist 2 
Children induced to attend Sab- 

TORE ICING cn a's ose poo 's's sey ba whe 10 ae 10 
Persons induced to at’nd Church Jolakehe. 45 GMT Ci et later 08 10 
Poor families and persons relieved Gh... 458 + ee seo 
Passages to England procured... rete Hales ae | 6 
Meweiiae lis Pi OG A Ae ' 226 101 85 412 
Aggregate attendance.......... bat P5B2 1384 .|].. 1500 | 8416 
Amount given by Friends, per Mr. Massey, to relieve Poor...... ~148.00 
Money given to Poor, per Mr. Massey ......... cece cscs ccenvees 139.20 
Amount given by Friends, per Mr. Millen, to relieve Poor ...... 76.25 
Money given to Poor, per Mr. Millen. ...... 22. cece ee cece eee 17.20 


Mr. Massey adds the following :—Young men hopefully converted, 3; 
others, 2; hopeful deaths, 5; under deep concern for their souls, 6. 


16 


THE ROOMS AND LIBRARY. 


Tux Rooms.—Our head-quarters last year were first at No. 90 
McGill Street, and afterwards temporarily in the Mechanics’ Hall. 
The Room Committee of the past year, as its first duty, sought out 
suitable and central rooms, which were found under the St. Law- 
rence Hall, and taken by the Association at a rental of $200 a year. 
In these rooms, we hoped to settle down, and they were made com- 
fortable accordingly. In January, a fire occurred in the building, 
but our rooms were providentially spared. Early in March, the 
use to which the rooms were put being objected to, we were forced 
again to seek a new home, which has been found at the present 
rooms, at the rental of $300. During the summer, the rooms 
have seen less active service than. could have been wished, but, 
during the winter, they may yet be found restricted enough. The 
present Superintendent was engaged when the former rooms were 
opened; his work being divided between several establishments. On 
removing, this arrangement was necessarily broken through. ’ 


Tue Lrprary,—from which about two hundred books are found 
to be missing,—has been properly numbered and catalogued ; adver- 
tising and enquiry having brought back but few of the missing ones, 
An effort has just been entered upon, to add, by purchase, to the 
books already in possession, a good library of Bee Rian! for the free 
use of ministers, Sunday-school teachers, and members of the Asso- 
ciation. To this end, a subscription will be started during the 
winter; and it is hoped that the result will be the supply of a 
long-felt need in the city, and the increased use and usefulness of 
our rooms, 


Phe Association retains its rooms No. 1 Poplar Place, Mountain 
Street, which are in charge of the Mission Committee. 


SSS 8 ——_— 


laa — 


17 


MEETINGS, &c. 


SocraL GATHERINGS.—The Annual Festival held on the 18th — 
December was a most interesting and pleasant gathering, and was 
addressed among others by Mr. Hammond, to whose zealous labours, 
as well as to those of other evangelists, the increased activity of the 
Association during the year is, under God, to a certain extent at- 
tributable. At the opening of the first rooms in St. James Street, 
a social meeting for young men was held as a kind of house-warming, 
and similar meetings given to the Soldiers have been mentioned. 
The youth of the Pointe-aux-Trembles Institute received also a 
collation at midnight, on the night of the French Canadian An- 
niversary meeting. | 


Business Mrrtincs.—With the exception of a month or two in 
the end of summer and the fall business season, the Society has met 
monthly for business. The General Committee has been about 
equally attentive to duty till the last six weeks of the year, when 
it has met weekly. 


PRAYER MEETINGS.—A very interesting and useful Union Prayer 
Meeting has been kept up, as in former years, on Sunday afternoons, 
under the superintendence of Mr. Grafton. The rooms have been 
at times filled. A Soldiers’ Prayer Meeting is held every afternoon ; 
and recently a Noon Prayer Meeting has been started by a few 
brethren who meet at the rooms to lunch. The regular Tuesday- 
evening Devotional Meeting has been but poorly sustained during 
the summer. The Sailors’ Tract Distributors have held a fortnightly 
prayer meeting; and the rooms have also been honored by being 
used for the Mothers’ Monthly Prayer Meeting. Regular services 
have been kept up, on Sunday and Tuesday evenings, in the Asso- 
ciation’s rooms, Mountain Street. 


Lrecturgs.—A course of lectures, arranged with special reference 
to young men, has been provided for the coming winter; several 


C 


18 


pastors and educational gentlemen in the city having consented to 
address the Association. The course-ticket is to be sold for fifty 
cents, to be thus within the reach of all. 


Cuasses.—The following programme has been adopted for the 
useful occupation of the rooms for the coming season :—On Monday 
night, a French class will be carried on by a gentleman actively con- 
nected with the Association; Tuesday evening, by constitution, a 


devotional meeting will be used for prayer and religious discussion ;— 
debates and musical classes, if’ fuund feasible, will alternate on ~ 


Thursday evenings; and Friday evenings are set apart to a Bible 
class, to be conducted by five gentlemen, to take the guidance of the 
class each once a month. Mutual-improvement classes are also 
thought of. 


Sunpay ScHoois.—The Association maintains, at present, but 
one Sunday School; that in the rooms in Poplar Place, Mountain 
Street, on Sunday afternoons, under the superintendence of Mr. 
Milloy, which keeps up in numbers and continues useful to the 
neighborhood. 


ConvenTIon.—A Convention of Young Men’s Christian Associa- 
tions being called at Chicago last spring, this Association was invited, 
and was represented by Messrs. Leeming, Claxton, and Dougall. 
The Confederation of Associations formerly existing not having met 
for three years, it was resolved to form a new union; to which end, 
a Central Committee was appointed, with its head-quarters in Phila- 
delphia, and with a corresponding member in every State represented. 
The Corresponding-Secretary of this Association was chosen to re- 
‘present the British North American Provinces. The address which 
appears in the appendix, and which has been widely circulated among 
christian brethren throughout Canada, will more fully explain what 
has been done in this connection, the point of most immediate in- 
terest being the calling of a convention of such brethren as are either 
connected with associations or are desirous of forming them, to be 
held in Montreal, on the 3lst January, 1864. When the Chicago 
convention dissolved, it was resolved to meet in Boston next Spring, 
where it is hoped that Canada will be largely represented. 


19 


FINANCIAL. 


The Association is dependent for defraying its expenses on the 
annual subscriptions of its members, which have not this year been 
entirely equal to the demand. 


Misston.—The collection for the mission work have not exceeded 
those of last year, and have been, in some of the Churches wont to 


give most largely, very far inferior to the year before last. 


The above Report respectfully submitted to the Society. 


J. REDPATH DOUGALL, 
Corresponding Secretary. 


Montreal, Nov. 24th, 1863. 


—Ta 


The MONTREAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION in account with Treasurer. 
qr. ASSOCIATION ACCOUNT. Or. 


1863—By Balance from last year ..........+. eee veces 31.15 
ahs cae oth was ge eee ee ‘ Members’ Subscriptions ...... .<c..0 sescee. 235.00 
“te Pees Pl ee ey eee eS © -SAORBOTE Fags 4ck'x ccna os neh ed oe es SS ee 

& Hal£ proceeds Festival, &e..:, 0.5 sdia ws .<..,. 61.49 
4 Balance due Tregaurer.. « oisa.6 +05 ees gta» 2 00.15 


“ Superintendent of Rooms 
“ Sundry Accounts 


$425.79 $425.79 
To Balance due Treasurer, brought down ...... 95.15 


MISSION ACCOUNT. 


1863—To Missionaries’ Salaries to end of November..$1125.00 1863—By Balance from last year, ee ae ee Sr $101.79 
‘* Rents and Taxes,. 


‘nts Sg. the nik sil dae a es apphinn > Sees Oe “ Collection: Zien Charch cis st. ¢--asspengen 301-00 
“ Ponting) £0 2 ones ca Sea ee. ics. BBS. 10 6 Do. American Presbyterian Church... 317.50 
“ Sundry PCCOT US o.oo. ccs ollie She ons pons ROAD 6 Do. Great St. James St. Wesleyan Ch. 161.50 
H Balan¢ean: hand .- ..cs gies Be ees vn Ghee s OG. 56 | ‘“ Do. Cite Strett 20546. ds sds sas cde san aeebadaee 


és Do. Jet Baptist Chutche cc . 408. <g00 0 soU.08 
“ Do. Beer WG BCUUTEE odie ais v ee oReatt oe.ne 
u Do. Lagauchetiere St. Can. P’bytn. Ch. 45.12 
64 Do. St. Gabriel St. Canada 6 vb 4.00 
6 Do. H. A. Nelson’s Bible Class........ 15.00 
6 Do. Thomas Leemitig .....sesdsee.a 30.00 
ie Do. Alesandéer Glare |... 2 cnn wae asa 5.00 
‘6 Do. oF. Oe Oe ees hao ans 5.00 
‘i Do. a ee oe a ee ones 1.00 
Part Rent Mountain Street Mission House .. 89.82 
Half proccede: Westivale. <7 goes cco ds nane 41.66 


$1539.14 $1539.14 
Montreal, 15th Dec., 1863. = 


By Balance in hand brought down ..¢seceeseces. 196.56 
Audited and found correct 


ad = ee 
~ nN 


, ©. R. Brack; W. C. Duron. 


| 


21 


LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS 


TO THE CITY MISSION—1863. 


Zion Church. 


~ Charles Alexander $40.00 
John Dougall & Co. 40 00 
Henry Lyman 20.00 
W. R. Hibbard 20.00 
jeorge Winks 20.00 
William Nivin 20.00 
David Lewis 20.00 
N.S. Whitney 20.00 
Mrs. H Lyman 15.00 
~Jas. P. Clark 10.00 
Jas. Baylis 10.00 
R. C. Jamieson 10.00 
P. W. Wood 10.00 
T. M. Taylor 10.00 
A. McK. Cochrane 10.00 
Savage & Lyman 10,00 
KF. F, Ames 10.00 
Wm. Rodden 10.00 
Wm. McDougall 00 
A. Savage 00 
Wm. Learmont 00 
James Williams & Co. 00 
W H. Clare 00 
Robt. Mills 00 
E. Wright 00 


Henry Vennor 
C. H. Smithers 
John White 

R. Hutchins 
W. Notman 
John Parslow 


DOW SK Oror sr Or OV Stan H or orien 
=a ald 
oO 


Chandler & Hannan 00 
G. P. 00 
W. O. Buchanan 2.50 
J. Carson 2.00 
3. We 2.00 
Mr. Arthur 2.00 
J. Savage 1.¢c0 
Jos Learment 1.00 
J.B S. 1.00 
D. T. Irish 1.00 
Sundries 1.50 
$387.00 
American Presbyt'n Church. 
Alex. Milloy $25 .00 
E. K Greene 25.00 
Corse & May 25.00 
H. A. Nelson 25.00 
J. McLennan 25.00 
Benj. Lyman 25 00 
Geo. Hagar 25.00 
James Holiday 20.00 
Geo. Childs 10.00 
Wm. P. McLaren 10.00 
P. D. Brown §.00 


Clark Fitts 00 
E. F. Ames 00 
A. 8. Wood 00 
J. DeWitt 00 
Cash 00 
S. English 00 
G. W. Reed 00 
Cash 00 


John Murphy 
Prowse & McFarlane 
Geo. Brush 


5. 
5. 
é. 
5 
5. 
5. 
5. 
5. 
5. 
4. 
4. 
A. W. Brush 4.09 
W P. Hayward 4.00 
A Friend 2.50 
Cash 2 50 
H. Seymour 2.00 
W. G. Childs 2.00 
E. 1 Bancroft 2.00 
H.W. Atwater 2.00 
Nelson Davis 2.00 
A. M. Foster 2.00 
Chas. Childs 2.00 
E. C, Tuttle 2.00 
KE. K. Adams - 2.00 
J. A. Bazin 2.00 
Jas. Gill 1.50 
Cash 1.00 
D. Brown 1.00 
S. J. Scott 1.00 
Cash 1.00 
E. Hagar 1.00 
Chas. Hagar 2.00 


ocr tee ne 


$317 .50 


Wesleyan Church, Great St. 
James Street. 


A Friend $30.00 
Robt. Miller 10.00 
J Torrance, Jr. 10.00 
D. Torrance 10.00 
T. M. Bryson 10.00 
Fredk. Kay 10.00 
Jas. Ferrier, Jr. 10.00 
Richd. Holland 10.00 
Jas, Akin 00 
G. D. Ferrier 00 
J. Jeffrey 00 
Hugh Mathewson 00 
Cash, T. C. 00 


Cash, D. 8. 
Friend, G. R. 


bo BO CO CO HE BR OV or Sr SVN 
oO 
oO 


Rd. Smith 00 
J. Patton, Jr. 00 
T. C. & Co. 00 
Robt. Graham 00 
Cash, J. H. 00 
Cash, J. U. 00 


| P. Redpath 


Cash, J. McM. 2.00 
J. Sinclair 2.00 
Cash, G. H. 1.00 
Friend, J. E. 1.00 
Cash, J. P. 1.00 
Cash, R.C., Jr. 1.00 
Sundries 1.50 


$161.50 


Cote St. C. P. Church. 


Jas. Court $20.00 
Jno. Redpath 20.00 
Robt Anderson 10.00 


Jos. McKay & Bro. 10.00 
Jno. Stirling 


D. A. Watt 00 
Jno. McIntosh 00 
A. Walter 00 


C. C. McDougall 

F. W. Torrance 
Wm. Brown 

Geo. Brown 

Jas B. Greenshields 
James Ross 


| John Campbell 00 
Wm. Roy 00 
John Plimsoll 00 
D. Morrice 00 
Sam|. Holmes 00 
P. S. Ross 00 


A. Ferguson 
A.C Sutherland 
D. McDougall 

Cc. C. Snowdon 
H. S. Snowdon 
T. Davidson 


Wm. McMaster 00 
Jno. Bailie 00 
W. Notman 00 


D. W. Sutherland 
Geo. Steele 

Colin Cameron 
A. McGoun 

Jas. Davison 

W. C. Munderloh 


- Pa ped fea et a fad a Fa fe Pe ed bd et tat at BD BD BD BO BO BD BO HR HO Ot On St Se Se 
fc) 
=) 


Wm. Grange 00 
W. McBain 00 
W. W. Turnbull 00 
ie ae 1.00 
Cash, P. N. 0.25 

$145.25 


First Baptist Church. 


T. J. Claxton $20.00 
T. M. Thomson 10.00 
J. Thomson 10.00 
W. Ewan 00 
Jas. Miine 00 
Foley & Co. 00 
Jas. Muir 00 


G. M. Soule 
E. V. Mosely 


FE. Muir 00 
Wm Muir 
G. B. Muir 00 


Wm _ Dickson 
Chas. Dagg 


SND wr ROO ooo 
f) 
i=) 


J. Whitham 00 
D. Bentley 00 
Jas. Rielle 75 
Cash, W. R. 25 
J. Alexander (Rev.) 1.00 

$100.00 

St. Paul’s Church. 

Wm Darling 5.00 
J. M. Ross 5.00 


J. Greenshields, Son & Co. 5.00 
Alex. Mitchell 5.00 
And. A:lan 


22 


Alex. Buntin 
John Smith 
George Stephen 
Jas. Johnston 
Robt. Muir 
Archd. Ferguson 
Jno. Aitken 

E. E. Stuart 

W. Christie 

Mr. Hay 

A. Simpson 

A. McPherson 
Geo. McKenzie 
Miss Armour 
Mrs. H. Ramsay 
W. R. Croil 
Alex. Baird 
James Fairie 
James Burnett 
Wm. Ross 

A. F. Cockburn 
James Rose 
Geo. Templeton 
Geo. MacDonald 
Robt. Kerr 
Chas. Esplin 

R. L. Durrell 
Jno. Boyd 
Robt. Weir 


o 
i=) 
on) 


bk ed ek et et rat fred fed pret fet fed fl ret ek ed ed PAO DODD DD AD HE OOD Oe 


ooo 
ooo 


eo 
oo 


on 
oc 


oocococo 
DevWvocS 


.00 


J. Taylor 0.50 
C. D. Proctor 0.50 
P. Larmonth 0.50 

$83.50 

Dr. Taylor’s C. P. Church. 

Warden King $10.00 
Geo, Rogers 5.00 
John Watson 5.00 
J. Hodgson 5.00 
Andrew Robertson 5.00 
Alex. Rose 2.00 
W_ Rutherford 2.00 
Jas. Bruce 2.00 


Jas. Ross 2.00 
Jno. Thomson 1.00 
Mr. Fairbairn 1.00 
M. Laing 1.00 
Cash (Mr. L.) 1.00 
Jno. Cassels 1.00 
Jas. Walker 1.00 
J. Smardon 1.07 


ee 


$45.07 


St. Gabriel-Street Church. 
Archd. Swan $4.00 


APPEN DIX. 


SCENES WITNESSED IN ONE DAY’S VISITING. 


Called on the 8 family. Appeared glad to see me. Husband not 
an habitual drunkard, but gets a drop too much occasionally, and is not 
over-fond of work; consequently his family suffers. Thinks himself 
pretty good, and is very plausible. Wife industrious, and believe she 
has obtained much good at our evening meetings, Children poorly clad, 
but well-behaved, and attend Sabbath School. 


Another family, up stairs. Husband in regular work; but the house, 
persons, and everything about it indicate something wrong. Always 
dirty, ragged, and wretched, but civil. Suspect drink is the cause of it, 
but am not sure. I advised, read, prayed, gave them tracts, and invited 
them to meeting to-night. | 


Next family, Mrs. H——. Husband an intelligent man, but wise in 
his own conceit, and is much given to drink. Spends his Sabbaths in 
reading newspapers, sleeping and drinking, and is very peevish with his 
wife. Was once a member of a city church. His minister told me that 
he had tried to save him, but all in vain; he would be glad if I could do 
him any good. 

Wife stood to-day with the door in her hand as if to prevent iy en- 
trance, and talked so fast, as if determined to give me no chance to 
speak. With difficulty, I spoke a few words about her soul and death, 
and gave her a tract. She was taken ill, and died soon after. I visited 
her on her deathbed, and think there was hope in her death. 


se Husband a sober, industrious man ; wife gets drunk occasion- 
ally on the sly. A neighbor and herself, 1 am told, keep their stock of 
whiskey in the woodshed, and take a drop each when they fetch wood to 
the fire, She has been well and tenderly brought up, ard her intelligent 
face is sometimes marked by a black eye. She was in bitterness and 
sorrow to-day on that account. Had lately been very ill, and found she 
was not prepared to die. She said the very things her father taught her 
on his knee when a little one at home all came up again. His prayers 
and holy example were ever before her eyes. I read a portion of the 
Word of God, and prayed that she might be pardoned and saved from her 
besetting sin. She is an amiable, intelligent woman, and the mother of 
a number of small children. 


D Two families in same house. Husband of one of them sick, 
pious, and poor; wife gets drink as often as she can, and tries hard to 
convince me that she is very pious. Believe she is a downright hypo- 
crite. Advised, read, prayed, and gave them tracts. 

L M Wife, I think, a Christian; very unhappy to-day ; says 
her husband has began to spend his evenings at a certain tavern, and is 
becoming peevish and abusive. Has also a near relative adrunkard, who 


24 


is breaking his young wife’s heart and starving her and several little 
ones. Have tried hard to save him, but in vain. Read portion of Scrip- 
ture, spoke of the promises of Jesus, and prayed. Appeared to be much 
comforted ; wept; thankful. 


D Wife and daughters industrious and respectable; father an 
inveterate drunkard, driver by wife and children from his home, cannot 
live with him; never works; sometimes in jail, sometimes in hospital ; 
and is destroying himself as fast as drink can do it. Have seen him 
lying like a pig in the mud at his own door. Have tried for years to 
reclaim him; seems to be lost. Drink has partially destroyed both his 
body and mind; and his moral part—his conscience—seems to be seared 
as with a hot iron. He now lies in one of our institutions, a wreck of 
what he was a few years ago. 


F Kind and civil, but seems to know little of Spiritual and 
experimental religion ; sober and industrious. One intimately connected 
with this family lately died suddenly, the result of hard drinking; wife 
now in asylum from the same cause. I knew them well; started in life 
full of promise; had money, friends, and a happy plentiful home; but 
all was lost through drink. I attended his funeral ; but few of his old 
friends were present. ‘Those who had helped to ruin him, as is always 
the case, forsook him when he needed Sympathy and aid. He was buried 
by strangers, and th re were none to weep over his grave. The little 
ones he left behind were too young to understand and feel their loss. 
My heart bled when I thought of them, the mother, and the father’s end. 
O drink! what a monster thou art! As usual, I read a portion of the 
Word, conversed, prayed, and gave tracts. Thankful. 


L 44 Husband, an educated man, lately lost a good situation 
through drink. Has a wife and children ; greatly depressed, almost out 
of his mind, but quite sober to-day. Urged him to give up drink, en- 
couraged them still to hope, prayed, and gave them tracts ; appeared very 
thankful, 

WwW 8 A poor dirty family ; five or six children. Father idle 
and intemperate, but very conceited; thinks he is a very knowing man, 
and is at some trouble to make one believe that he is also religious. 
Stops at home to take care of house and children, and sends his wife out 
to work. His wife remarked to-day that he was much improved since he 
began to attend our meetings, but I have no faith in him or his improve- 
ment. Read, spoke very plainly and pointedly to them, and gave them 
tracts; civil. 

W Father and two sons; younger very unsteady, keeps bad com- 
pany. The elder son well-disposed, but says it is no use his attempting 
to be religious, so long as he lives with his father, he is so often drunk, 
Mother dead; house a wretched dirty place, never ventilated or cleaned ; 
and no furniture, except a bed and an old stove and one old chair. Have 
tried very hard for years to save them ; sometimes they did well for 
months, and then broke out again. Lately left the city. 

Called upon several other families of a more sober type, who were civil 
and glad to see the missionary, 

8 p.M.—Held a meeting among the above people. About twenty present 
who do not attend any place of worship, not having decent clothes. All 
appeared attentive and serious, 

S. M. 


oa 


The following CrrcuLarR Lerrer has been widely circulated 
among Christians throughout the Provinces :— 


MontrEAL YounG Men’s Curistian ASSOCIATION Rooms, 


Montrea, November 4th, 1863. 


Dear Broruer, 


At the last Convention of the Young Men’s 
Christian Associations of this continent, held at Chicago in the month 
of May of the present year, only two Canadian Associations were re- 
presented,—those of Montreal, and of London, C.W.; and I am 
not aware that any other such Association exists in a “live ” state 
in Canada. New Brunswick, Nova Sootia, Newfoundland, and Prince 
Edward's Island, have all, I believe, their one or more thriving asso- 
ciations, between whom and those in Canada, intercourse and Chris- 
tian sympathy might be greatly extended. Having heard of you as 
a Christian brother, I shall spare myself the needless task of repre- 
senting to you the great value of anything that will unite young 
Christians in the unity of spirit for which the Master prayed, and 
in the unity of purpose which will make them doubly strong in the 
service of the Lord, The object of the present address is to increase 
the spirit of union between Associations already formed, and to re- 
quest the formation of Associations where there are none. A fear, 


‘sometime expressed, that the Association may rob the Church of 
some of the labor which should properly be carried on within its pale 


has, I am convinced, never been justified by facts; and, as a rule, 
pastors look upon those who are active members of the Young Men’s 
Christian Association, as among their most stalwart suppurters. 


In earnestly commending the enterprise to your thoughtful con- 
sideration, on the part of the Montreal Association, and on the part 
of the Central Committee of the new Young Men’s Christian Union, 
now in process of formation, it may be useful to lay before you some 
of the modes in which Associations usually work ; premising that 
each society must suit itself to the character of its locality. 


Should your neighborhood afford scope for the foundation of a 
Union Mission Sunday-School, no object could be more useful on 
which to concentrate effort. A Public Library, Reading-Room, 
and Lectures or Debates, are legitimate objects. Home Missionary- 
work is almost always attainable; it may be said always, where thére 
are souls unsaved ; as, where it is impossible to support missionaries, 


D ‘ 


26 


young men can take this work upon themselves —a work from which 
many Christians shrink, but which none eyer regretted engaging in. 
A Union Prayer-Meeting should always be maintained,—the prim- 
ary object being, in all cases, the wnion of young men in Christian 
effort, and the fostering of a catholic Christianity. Should you wish, 
I shall be happy to furnish you with our constitution,—not as a 
model, but as an assistance in framing another ; with our pro- 
gramme Of arrangements for the coming winter; and such other 
information as is within my power. 

A Convention is called by the Montreal Association, to meet 
in this city, on Saturday, the 31st J anuary, 1864, to which delegates 
appointed by meetings of young men desirous of forming Associa- 
tions, are earnestly invited. At this meeting, much may be done 
towards the encouragement of the localities represented to persevere 
courageously in their efforts; and the brethren here pray that it 
may be only the first of a series of blessed reunions. The day ap- 
pointed follows immediately upon the larger of the Aniversary Meet- 
ings, to which eminent Christian speakers are generally invited, and 
during which a visit to the city is well repaid. With two working- 
days and the Sabbath, it is thought that the business and pleasure of 
the occasion can be best secured. 

Should you be connected with an Association of this kind, or 
be successfull in organizing one, it is to be hoped that that Associa- 
tion will be represented by as man y delegates as possible, at the 
General Convention to be held in Boston next spring ; of which time- 
ly notice will be given. The number of Canadian delegates at that 
meeting should be at least ten times as many as went to Chicago ; 
that is, forty instead of four. The importance of immediate action 
will commend itself to you. Hoping to hear from you shortly, 


I am, 
Dear Brother, 


Yours in Christian fellowship, 


J. REDPATH DOUGALL, 


Corresponding Secreiary of Montreal ¥. M. C. A. and Corresponding Member 
for the British Provinces of the Central Committee for Young Men’s 
Christian Convention. 


to 
~] 


INVITATION. 


THE undersigned, being appointed by the Montreal Young 
Men’s Christian Association as a Convening Committee, cordially 
invite the attendance of Christian young men in Canada, who are 
either connected with Young Men’s Associations, or who are desirous 
of establishing such, at a Convention, to be held in this City, on 
SATURDAY, the 31st January, 1864, at 10 o’clock, A.M. 


The Committee desire an early communication from intending 


Delegates, in order to make suitable arrangements for their reception. 


On arrival, Delegates will please proceed to the Rooms of this 
Association, next door to the Post Office, Great St. James Street ; 
where the Committee will direct them to the houses of friends who 


_ will show them hospitality during their stay in town. 


(Signed, ) 
THOS. LEEMING, 
T. JAMES CLAXTON, 
J. REDPATH DOUGALL, 
THOS. HOBSON. 


MontREAL, November 4, 1863. 


: 
) 
> 


wD 
Jo 


CONSTITUTION. 


ARTICLE I. 


This Society shall be called “Tur Moytrean Youre Men’s Curisttan 
ASSOCIATION AND Crry Mission.” 


Articite II. 


Its objects shall be, the religious and mental improvement of its Mem- 
bers, especially in connection with the study of the Scriptures ; the 
union of young men of various Churches in this and other plans of 
usefulness ; and the providing of means by which young men, coming as 
strangers into the city, may be brought under religious influences among 
their own class, 


Articte III. 


This Association adopts, as the basis of all its proceedings those 
fundamental principles of Evangelical Christianity on which all Orthodox 
Protestant Churches are agreed, and will never admit any intermedd- 
ling with those matters of Faith and Polity on which such Churches 
differ. 


ARTICLE IV. 


Any young man, who is a member in good standing of an Evangeli- 
cal Church in this city, may become an Active Member. Active Members 
only have the right to vote, and be eligible to office; and it shall be 
their particular duty to carry out the objects of this Association. Any 
young man, of good moral character, may become an Associate Mem- 
ber; and shall be entitled to all the privileges of the Association, except 
that of voting and being eligible to office. Any Associate Member, who 
shaJl unite with an Evangelical Church, becomes thereby an active mem- 
ber of this Association, due notice thereof being given to the Secretary. 
Members may be proposed and elected at any meeting of the Association 
or of the Committee. All elections shall be by ballot. Any person, 
duly qualified, may become a Life-Member of this Association by pay- 
ing Twenty-five Dollars to the general fund at any one time. Persons 
may become Honorary Members. The Association shall have power to 
expel Members. 


Rt 30 


ARTICLE V. 


The annual subscription to this Association shall be One Dollar per 
annum, to be paid on being received into membership, and during the 
month of November in each subsequent year. 


ARTICLE VI. 


The Officers of the Association shall be—a President, Vice-Presidents, 
a Treasurer, a Recording Secretary, a Corresponding Secretary, and a 
Committee of Twelve, to be elected annually by ballot from the Mem- 
bers. A majority of the votes cast Shall be an election; five to form 


a quorum, 
ARTICLE VII. 
An Annual Meeting shall be held in the month of November, to receive 
the Report of the Officers and elect their successors. 
ArTIcLE VIII, 
All meetings of the Association and Committee shall be opened and 
closed with prayer. 
ArtTioLte IX. 


This Constitution shall not be altered, except at an Annual Meeting, 
or at a Special Meeting, to be held at the call of the Committee, and by 
the vote of two-thirds of the Members present. 


BY-LAWS. 


ARTICLE I. 
MEMBERSHIP. 


1.—Applicants for membership must be proposed by a Member of 
the Association. All such proposals shall be made in writing, and shall 
contain the name in full, the residence, the church of which the ap- 
plicant is a member, and, if not a church-member, the congregation he 
is connected with. It shall also be signed by the proposer. 


2.—Honorary Members shall be proposed at a regular meeting, and 


Shall be received as members by motion, if carried by a majority of two- 


thirds of the members present. Art. V. of Constitution not to apply 
to Honorary Members. 


3.—The Members shall seek out young men taking up their residence 
in this city, endeavor to bring them under moral and religious influ- 
ences, and, by every means in their power, to surround them with 
Christian associates. Members shall also exert themselves to interest 
the churches to which they respectively belong in the objects and welfare 
of the Association. They shall. labor to induce all suitable young 
men of their acquaintance to connect themselves with the Association, 
and use all practicable means for increasing its membership, activity, 
and usefulness. 


ARTICLE If, 
OFFICERS. 


1.—It shall be the duty of the President to preside at all business meet- 
ings of the Association and Committee, and to preserve in strict exer- 
cise the rules established by Parliamentary order. In the absence of 
the President, the senior officer present shall preside. Devotional meet- 
ings may be presided over by an Active Member of the Association. 


2.—The duties of the Recording Secretary shall be to keep a full and 
complete register of the names, residence, and church of each Mem- 
ber. He shall attend all meetings, and keep a correct record of the 
proceedings thereat, and notify all officers and members of their elec- 
tion, 


3.—The Corresponding Secretary shall, under the direction of the Com- 
mittee, have charge of the correspondence of the Association. He shall 
keep copies of all letters written, and files of those received by him, rela- 
ting to the affairs of the Association. He shall also present a written 
report of the Association at the annual meeting. 


4.—The Treasurer shall receive all monies due the Association, and 


I ed os en ee at 24> = aS 


32 


disburse the same under the direction of the Committee. He shall keep 
a full and correct account of his transactions, and report to the Com- . 
mittee when so required, and to the Association at its annual meeting. 


5.—The Committee shall have the general management of the Asso- 
ciation, and shallreport monthly to the Association. 


ARTICLE IIT. 
STANDING COMMITTEES, 


1—The Standing Committees, who shall be subject to the General 
Committee, shall be—a Committee on Rooms and Library ; a Committee 
on Lectures, Essays and Debates ; @ Committee on Bible Classes; a Fin- 
ance Committee and a Mission Committee. These Committees shall 
be appointed by the President from the General Committee. They 
Shall be subject to, and shall report to each mouthly meeting of the 
General Committee. The President and Recording Secretary shall be 
ex-officio members of each standing Committee. 


2.—The Committee on Rooms and Library shall consist of three 
members who shall attend to the Rooms of the Association, and see 
that they are kept in good order. This Committee shall also arrange 
for the proper distribution of the books in the Library, and use all 
available means for its increase and preservation. 


3.—The Committee on Bible Classes to consist of three members, shall 
have charge of all Bible Classes connected with the Association, and 
shall make all arrangements for their efficient working. 


4.—The Committee on Lectures, Essays and Debates, to consist of three 
members, shall provide for the delivery of Lectures or Sermons ; Shall 
prepare subjects for essays, debates or conversation ; engage members 
to take part in the meetings of the Association, prepare a programme 
of each meeting, and cause it to be announced at least one week before 
such meeting is held. 


5.—The Finance Committee, to consist of three members, shall de- 
vise means for obtaining necessary funds for the Association, and shall 
examine and approve all accounts referred to them by the General Com- 
mittee previous to their payment by the Treasurer. The Treasurer 
shall be an ex-officio member of this Committee. 


6.—The Mission Committee shall consist of five members, and it 
Shall be their duty to superintend the City Mission render all possi- 
ble aid to the Missionary or Missionaries, and, use all the means in their 
power to promote the success of the Mission, and to extend its useful- 
ness, 


7—The President shall also nominate a Committee on Member- 
ship; to consist of a Chairman, who shall be a member of the General 
Committee, and not less than ten Active Members of the Association, 
selected from each church in which there are Members belonging to 
the Association. It shall be the duty of each member of this Commit- 
tee to make himself acquainted with the young men in his particular 
congregation, especially strangers, and invite them to become Mem- 
bers of the Association. He shall report on all applications for mem- 
bership referred to him. He shall convey to new Members their certi- 


33 


ficates of election and cards of membership, collect their dues, and la- 
bor to induce them to attend the regular meetings of the Association. 
He shall also, when called, upon notify the Members of special meetings. 
It shall be the duty of the Chairman to see that each Member of this 
Committee fulfils his duties. The Chairman shall also report the labors 
of his Associates to the General Committee. 


ARTICLE IV. 
MEETINGS. 


1.—The Committee shall meet for business on the second Monday 
of each month ; five to form a quorum. 


2.—Mectings of the Association for reading essays, for debates, con- 
versation on religious subjects, devotional exercises, or lectures, shall 
be held as often as practicable. As far as practicable, meetings shall 
commence at eight o’clock and ciose at ten. 


3.—Business meetings of this Association shall take place monthly 
on the Tuesday succeeding the second Monday in each month (being 
the first day of meeting, after the meeting of General Committee). 
Nine to form a quorum. 


4.—That, at the other meetings of the Association during the month, 
no business be transacted other than proposing, balloting for, and re- 
ceiving new Members. 


5.—Special meetings of the Committee may be called at the option of 
the President, or at the request of three Members of the Committee. 
Special meetings of the Association shall be held at the written request 
of ten members, or at the option of the President. 


6.—Any officer or member of Committee absenting himself from three 
consecutive regular meetings of the Committee, without sufficient rea- 
son, shall vacate his office. All vacancies shall be filled by the Commit- 
tee. 


39D 


MEETINGS, &c., 1863-1864, 


General Committee meets on the 2nd Monday evening of each month 
to receive reports of the Standing Committees. 
Tea at 6} o'clock. Business at 7 o’clock. 


The Association meets on the Tuesday succeeding the 2nd Monday 
| of each month, to receive report of General Committees and transact 
general business, at 8 o'clock. Tea usually provided. 

Devotional Meeting on other Tuesday evenings. 


UNION PRAYER MEETING—For all classes, every Sunday after- 


- noon.—Mr. M. Prynne in charge. 
DAILY PRAYER MEETING—At noon, lunch provided. 


DAILY SOLDIERS’ PRAYER MEETING—From 5 to 6 o’clock p.m. 
A FRENCH CLASS. 


, Commencing on the 14th December, will be held, under the superinten- 
dance of a Gentleman connected with the Association. 

9 LECTURES 

Will be delivered in Bonaventure Hall, as follows :— 


December 8rd, 1863.—REV. JOHN ALEXANDER. 


: Supsecr :—‘‘ The Elements of Success in Life.” 

» January 19th, 1864.—Rev. H. Wirxes, D.D. 

\ r Supsecr :--** Commerce and Christianity .”’ 

February 2nd, 1864.—Rév. —_——. 

SUBJECT --—- — 

4 : February 9th, 1864.—Ruy. CO. Laver, M.A. 

\ Sppsecr :—“ The Theatre : its History, Assumptions, and Tendencies.” 
Ni February 23rd, 1864.—PkoF. ROBINS. 

al} Supsecr :—‘‘ On Air.” 

iw March 2nd, 1864.—Rev. WM. TAYLOR, D,D. 


Sppsect :—‘‘ On the Evidences of the Christian Religion .”’ 


March 15th, 1864.—Rev. 
SuBJECT :— 


Tickets for the Course, 50 cents. Tickets for Single Lecture, 25 cents. 


36 


ANNIVERSARY FESTIVAL 
December 17th, 1863. 


CONVENTION OF ASSOCIATIONS 
Called for Saturday, Jany. 30th, 1864. 


LITERARY ESSAYS AND DEBATES. 


Thursday Evenings are set apart for Essays, Debates, &c., commencing 
with January 7th—Subject : ‘Christian Patriotism.’ 


BIBLE CLASS. 


Every Friday Evening, beginning with January 8th, 
Taylor, Esq. ° 


—conducted by T. M.. 


MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT CLASS. 


Every Sunday Morning, in Rooms, at 9 o’clock.—Thos. Robertson, Chair- 


man, 


SUNDAY SCHOOL. 


Every Sunday afternoon, at 3 p.m.—A. Milloy, Superintendent, No. 1 
Poplar Place, Mountain Street. Re.igious Megtines in same rooms 
every Sunday Evening and every Tuesday Evening. 


Meeting in Free School, Nazareth Street, every Sunday Evening.—Jas. 
Jardine, Chairman. 


COTTAGE MEETINGS. 
with a Chairman and several 


The City is divided into 13 Districts, 
ked and numbered on a Map 


Members for each. The Districts are mar 
of the City, at the Rooms. , 


