REPORT 


OF THE 


MONTREAL 


YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION, 


1865. 


a 


REPORT 


OF THE 


Montreal Young Men's Christian Association, 


ADOPTED AT THE 


ANNUAL MEETING 


HELD ON 
LUBRSDAY BVERNING, 28th NOVEMBER, 7865. 


7 rm oe 


OFFICERS FOR THE YEAR I866. 


Presip—ent—D. BENTLEY. 


Vick-PRESIDENTS : 
J. MURPHY, THOS. ROBERTSON, 
L. CUSHING, T, PATTON. 


SecretaRy—P, H. BURTON. 
TrEeAstuRER—JAMES ROSS. 


COMMITTEE: 


J. KENNEDY, GEORGE FILER, 
THOS, LEEMING, A. H. CAMERON, 
C. C. McDOUGALL, J. McDOUGALL, 
J. MACLAREN, E. 8S. LYMAN, 

J. R. MIDDLEMISS, J. M. BARNARD, 
THOMAS HOBSON, PROF. DAREY, 
J. TURNBULL, DR. BAZIN, 


R. KERR. 


PRINTED BY JAMES STARKE & CO. 


THE FOLLOWING ARK 


STANDING COMMITTEES 


FOR THE ENSUING YEAR:— 


MEMBERSHIP, ROOMS AND LIBRARY. 


; Lae MGRT IY. eee. Chairman. 

Bi ) f 
Jane . Ver Gro. FILER, C. C. Macpou@aLL. —— La As 
acl, (arutar” J.M. Barvarp. b-Hersaw. 

MISSION. 
"LOR ROBERTSON, 0. ..0-....++, Chairman. 
\A pode berernictet.. L. CusHina, ’ 
é 
C#1nct.— A. H. Campron, T. Parrone~ 
f FINANCE. 
Pe. BORTON, ss Biases ee Chairman. “— 


Dr. BAZIN. eR SENN Py. 


LECTURES, CLASSES, AND MEETINGS. 


J SHC AMEAOTABENG: 0 get saiee et ceee cine Chairman. 
J. BURNBULL. " BE. S. Lyman. 
“i LEEMING, ; PROF. Darky. 


BOARDING HOUSE. 


C. C. MACDOUG@ALL,.......-. .- Chairman. 
J. R. MmmpLemiss. R. KERR az Le 


<i abibe 


PRESIDENTS ADDRESS. 


Brethren of the Montreal Young Men's Christian Assoctation :—~ 


In opening this 14th Annual Meeting let me, before 
calling upon the Secretary to read the report, direct your thoughts 
briefly to the position which the Association occupies. 

You are young men, yet you are the fighting force of the churches, 
or rather of the church, and in your organized capacity you represent 
the whole church of Christ better than, perhaps, any body that has 
existed since the days when the church herself was outwardly one and 
ere she had wandered from her first love. There are, it is true, other 
Associations now-a-days of a Catholic character, towards which the 
Christian heart goes out with a longing as towards the first glimpses of 
a daylight yet to come when the church shall be more openly revealed 
as one in Christ Jesus; yet the Young Men’s Christian Association 
seems to be taking the place of a link of union among them. It is 
that with which they all must come in contact, and which fills the 
vacant spaces between them. Does any one see work to be done ? 
He appeals, not to the Bible or Tract, or Missionary Society, for their 
labours are well defined and their few hands are full, but he sees in 
the Young Men’s Christian Association a body with more elasticity 
and with more spare energy than them all—one which seldom answers, 
“That is not my work, others must see to it.’ Does any heart go 
out in sympathy towards every religious and benevolent work of the 
day ? His home is in your Association. It is yours to be pioneers 
for all, to train up workers for all, and as you hand one labour after 
another to other organizations you ever find new work to lay your 
hands to, new wells to dig, for which others for the time being, at 
least, will not strive. An Association finds itself also in an honorable 
position with regard to the Churches when it sees efforts springing up 
in one and another of them which had no existence when It first set 
them on foot. 


4 


I say these things to show the importance of your work and not 
to glorify you, for which there is little need, as the report of your 
committee will show. In the face of increased experience, and of the 
aid of one who has devoted his time and no mean abilities to your assist- 
ance, the work done last winter in the cottage meeting effort was 
not half what it was the winter before. Are we so dependent on the 
excitement of revivals that their effects wear off in three years? Can 
we look at this declension with anything but grief ? 

Your labours for the coming winter are the subject, as you well 
know, of many prayers. There are in this city at least 500 half- 
heathen Protestant families who are not in the habit of attending any 
place of worship; these are owr parish. This is the burden laid upon 
us, and well may each of us say woe is me if I preach not the Gospel 
to them ; and as our missionary said at a recent meeting, let us work 
as though this was to be our last winter’s work. It may be our last ; 
it will be the last for many to hear. The Cholera may come next 
summer and sweep the half of these two or three thousand neglected 
ones into the grave leaving few to mourn them. In that case what 
could we do to turn off or lighten its stroke. We know not, but we 
know our duty now. 


Around the year 1866 cluster many predictions of modern, if 
not of ancient prophets. We know enough when we know that like 
every other year it must, in its molding influence, be more to each 
of us than any succeeding year, and young men in the prime of their 
days it must bear away with it the most splendid opportunities of 
their lives. Into the hands of Mr. Watson will properly fall much 
of the practical organization of your efforts, and while it will be his 
part to urge on every man todo his duty, Mr. Millen will be found 
ready to assist in bringing together the people where visitation by the 
workers is difficult or impossible. Mr. Murphy, too, is diligently or- 
ganizing an efficient band of tract distributors to co-operate in the work 
by giving notice of your meetings as they make their weekly rounds. 

You have thus the whole energies of a powerful organization bent 
to your assistance. In all this, however, there has only been put 
together the skeleton of the work. Oh! for a breath of Heaven to 
make these dry bones live—a spirit to tabernacle in this temple 
which we have reared—to be the main spring of our machinery. 
Without Him we can do nothing. There are others who still more 
directly claim your sympathetic prayerful labours. What are we 


Or 


doing for the 25,000 young men of Montreal? What for the 5,000_ 
Protestant young men walking darkly among the snares and pitfalls 
of this wicked city. Hach of us moves among a circle of young men 
small or large, and some of them are not Christians. Your friend 
looks to you as an active professing Christian of his acquaintance for 
that interest which you profess to take in his spiritual welfare. Think 
not because he puts off your approaches that he is satisfied with your 
consistency so long as you suffer him to go on in impenitence. He 
expects more at your hands and may some day too late reproach you 
and say, ‘“ there was never so much asa beseeching look to invite me,” 
or, “there was not that perseverance for my salvation which your 
knowledge of my case demanded. 


A few young men come to your missionaries of their own accord 
generally for help in some immediate need. The situation being 
- found, or companionships formed, how often are they seen no more. 
The missionary cannot always, with his utmost endeavours, keep 
track of those who are for a time under his influence. You can some- 
times bring a friend yourself to the rooms for conversation with him, 
but this is not often. ‘There are many, however, to whom you can 
speak, and your works in such cases are worth more than those of the 
professional missionary. 


It has been suggested that ere long a series of special services be 
held by the whole Association with a view to mutual encouragement 
in personal work and for remembering first before God those who, 
though enrolled with us, have not yet showed any practical sympathy 
with our work. Whether this be carried out or not I commend to 
your prayers your Association and those whom it specially seeks to 
bless, et 

My occupying this place to-night is rather the result of regretted 
circumstances than of any appropriateness; and it is therefore with 
satisfaction that I now lay down its too heavy burden, a satisfaction 
which is completed by the knowledge that we have men among us to 
take it up whose long acquaintance with the affairs of the Association 
is joined to age and discretion sufficient to enable them, with ease and 
with dignity, to fulfil the duties of so important and honorable a 
station. Other changes must take place now which will deeply affect 
the welfare of the Association. May God guide you now, and in long 
future years may He still enable you to uphold a banner with the 
name of Jesus on it in the very fore-front of the churches’ battle-field. 


: OU. « i dy sil hit ag 


i affelt-tfe fare! tox 9 Ms 


fit 


gant sandy’ te ¢ bitty s 3 divine 


‘ 


be ahi ae a 


r ae G Panes Breas - _epiariaad apey blige se 
“Ast pg i Ye y 


nideste Spaesiod! hs a pines sAook ae | 
5 edt ke ‘ foittve Wess vee ey 
ye ney tae aifeaiacssbadt fn 


i 
‘ets sug aw stot ae ypeuotaiaan 5 


i eb 


o pit 
Pa Ase 


ne : ob i noel 


CO BY is ane 
siet saps ai | Hawt : 


rh 


nok I nee fits pen baat ee 
4 dona rah Haba Se ye it ft he ‘pt Ps Ge Ve Ho eit Ben 


ht Me sn: ed be fat ws ie of? boars et ‘babbil 8 gaint 3 - ‘s " 


ie sheer oil ove | 4 eee “ied te ier me a alll ve : 
BAL so) yy fas, ae 


eo) hee 


a 4 


og sania 


oa ord ath + 


‘fin 


el 


Als Ea ‘iter 


PEE, ae hin 


REPORT. 


THe fourteenth year of the history of the MontTREAL YounG 
MeEn’s CuristiAN ASsociATIoN, has been one of outward growth in 
members and influence, but of retrogression in point of missionary la- 
bour, on the part of the membership as compared with the preceding 
season. Your Committee has had also to contend against sorely 
straightened finances and numerous changes on the working staff, 
beginning with that which followed the regretted resignation of our late 
president, whose business activities joined with ill health, have since 
permitted him to give us but a small share of his former energetic as- 
sistance. 

One of our members, Dr. Evans, resigned in the month of June, 
on leaving the City; and in the same month, the Secretaryship was 
rendered vacant by the resignation of Mr. Stewart. The office of 
Chairman of the Mission Committee has unfortunately been forced to 
change hands three times. 


MEMBERSHIP. 


The increase in the number of our members during the year has 
been 88, giving us a present total of 321 active, and 140 associate, 
members in all 461. The Membership Committee having been found 
always to be too cumbrous in its machinery for efficient working has 
been remodelled, the following being the by-law now regulating that 
Committee. 

The President shall also nominate a Committee on Membership, 
consisting of five members of the General Committee. It shall be the 
duty of this Committee to secure a working member in every Congrega- 
tion, who shall report on applications for membership referred to him, 
seek out new members, and endeavour to interest his congregation in the 
Association. The Committee shall have general charge of the interests 
of the membership. 


* Since this report was adopted the Constitution of the Association 
has been revised. The Membership Committee has been united with 
that on Rooms and Library, with the functions of that Committee added 
to those here specified. 


8 


CITY MISSIONS. 


Owing to the formation, in the City, of another non-denomina- 
tional city mission association, it was thought wise, in order to avoid 
complications in arrangements, that Mr. Millen should withdraw, for 
the time being, from general City Mission work. He has occupied 
himself chiefly during the summer among the seamen: a department 
of effort with which the name of our Association has been closely 
linked, and as these pass away for a time, he will find enough to do in 
fostering the cottage meeting work, and other labours of the members 
by visiting, &c. In this manner our work is gradually drawn more 
closely together, tending more and more in the direction of doing good 
to and by young men. 


Mr. Millen presents the following summary of his labours : 


Tracts distributed in various Languages........... 12540 
Visits to families and the sick........... dieuaten 2. cp 120 
Visits to Institutions ......-.+. alniaied Ciao b's ba 164 
Ships visited, ........- 0 0c Cea RNa Sean RP Ee Rest ap es 159 
Situations obtained......e.eee- TUDE Aaa Vas 11 
Families relieved........-- 2 ick felid yy hieipee aac es scpt 4 139 
Mission Prayer Meetings held ..........+6. easeas 48 
Beside a weekly service in the General Hospital. 
Amounts given by friends for poor....+. -sseee vere $84 374 
Do PIVEN CO POOL... vevevcreccecs coveccrere 69.61 


In visiting seamen, he was ever kindly received by captains and 
crews, and was greatly cheered in his labours by meeting frequently 
among them with Christian brethren; some of whom were in the 
practice of maintaining public worship on shipboard when at sea. 

Mr. Millen has taken a leading part in the Bethel Services con- 
ducted on shipboard, weather permitting, every Sunday afternoon, by a 
few of the missionaries. These services not only seemed to secure the 
attention of seamen, but often even more, that of listeners on the wharf. 
hus, even in Montreal, the Gospel may be safely preached in the 
open air and in broad day light. 

The labours of the City Missionary are, of course, chiefly among 
the degraded and forsaken, among whom nothing but higher than 
human benevolence can sustain a man against ingratitude and the 
fearful opposition of intemperance, the constant and next to unconquer- 
able foe of every effort at elevating men. 


REV. C. P. WATSON’S LABOURS. 


Mr. Watson has, with the assistance of one or two members of the 
Association carried on regularly a service on Sunday forenoon at the 
Montreal General Hospital, this being the principal service held at 
that institution. This ministration to those whose afflictions afford 
them time for reflection and show them their frailty, may well be 
expected to be an interesting one. Some times thanks have been tear- 


fully expressed by the hearers, for the word that has been preached. 
Arrangements were also made by the same persons, to supply the rel- 
igious services of the House of Refuge, in compliance with a request 
from the Secretary of that institution, but after the first week, other 
arrangements were made by the Governors. Mr. Watson has, how- 
ever, very frequently been called upon to conduct the services there. 
He has also been much in request for the supply of City pulpits. 


Besides having given daily attendance at the Rooms of the Asso- 
ciation to receive strangers and render them assistance in procuring 
employment and finding suitable boarding-houses as well as giving 
counsel, encouragement and sympathy, to members and others, as op- 
portunities were afforded him, Mr, W. has visited the sick, has regu- 
larly attended the devotional weekly meeting of the Association, pre- 
sided at the Literary Class, and conducted the Sunday afternoon Bible 
Conversation Class, and has engaged in other public labours of which 
the following is a summary :— 


Preached in— 


Churches in the City............. rie covecccceces 44 times, 

Geheral Hospitals, sii yiccisiscseaties « jae Ny eee ke phobic ce 5 OO hg 

Mission Houses and House of Refuge...... ..sceececeese 21. & 
og 

Addressed— 

Sunday Schools............ PSs Yel" puis) a Bee bevesceeee 20 times, 

Temperance Meetings,.....-.0)..00..0. a vale ey OG PE CLO LS 

Public Religious Meetings. .......... BG Es Ove ak wei 180... & 


We have had, under consideration without final decision however, 
the recommendation that, with a view to bringing Mr. Watson more 
intimately into the working of the Association, and thereby affording 
him more frequent opportunities and occasions of meeting those among 
whom he is set in almost a pastoral relation he should hold some official 
position on the Committee. 

Tur Corrace Meerinas of the past season were ten in num- 
ber and for a while eleven ; just half of the number of the year before. 
These were held as follows : : 


District No.1, Grifintown, (Last) —G. Bishop, Chairman ; meeting in . 
Queen Street, on Thursday evening, and in Nazareth Street, on Friday 
evening. 

District No. 2, Griffintown, (West).—R. G. Brown, Chairman ; meet- 
ing in Murray Street, on Thursday evening, and on Dalhousie Street, on 
Friday evening. 

District No. 3, Point St. Charles—James Jardine, Chairman ; meeting 
on Centre Street, on Tuesday evening. 

District No. 4, St. Joseph Suburbs.—A. H. Cameron, Chairman; meet- 
ing on Friday evening. 

District No.5, St. Antoine Suburbs—Thos, Hutchins, Chairman; no 
meeting. 


10 


District No. 6, between Cemetery and Mctrill Si.—Hy. Sandham, Chairs 
man; meeting in Genevieve Street, on Thursday evening. 

District No. 7, City —E. S. Lyman, and H. Ranson, Chairman ; meet- 
ting in Bonsecours Street, on Thursday evening, and in Fortification Lane, 
on Tuesday evening. : 

District No. 8, St, Lawrence Suburbs.—-John Murphy, Chairman; mect- 
ing in St. Urbain Street, and in St. Andrew’s Home, on Friday evening, 

Districts Nos. 9, 10, 11.—Afford no field. 

District No. 12, Quebec Suburbs, (West}.—T. C. Jones, Chairman ; mect- 
ing in Champ de Mars Street, on Thursday evening, and in Campeau 8t., 
on Friday evening. 

District No. 13, Quebec Suburbs, (East).—J. 5. Warnock, Chairman ; 
meeting in Craig Street, on Thursday evening, and in Wolfe Street, on 
Friday evening. 


Some of these meetings were well maintained by faithful men, 
some were left to their district chairmen, who had to do the whole 
work as well as they could, and some of the meetings were even at times 
entirely neglected to the great dissatisfaction of attendants, and doubt- 
less with much harm to the cause. Whatever was done for God will 
be owned and blessed by Him. 


Tus Sappath Eventna Meerine in Nazareth Street still 
continues under the superintendence of Mr. John McDougall. 
The meetings have been very interesting, and on the whole, well sus- 
tained by the presence of speakers. The visiting has not been main- 
tained as in former years, but this improvement is noticeable in the 
people, that now, they come out in good numbers without any such 
urging. There is also visible, (and the remark applies unquestionably 
to the neighbourhood of several of our best sustained cottage meetings) 
a marked improvement in the moral condition of those who come under 
its influence. If this is, in any measure the result of our labours, even 
though it were the only result, we might well be thankful, but we be- 
lieve that seed has also been sown to everlasting life. The attendance 
at the Griffintown meeting has been on the average over fifty during 
the ten months for which it has been held. In the months of August 
and September it is usually deemed unwise to attempt to carry the 
meetings on. 

Another Sabbath evening meeting was started in our rooms, No. 
1, Poplar Place, Mountain Street, on the 11th December, 1864, but 
owing to various causes, among which the most important is doubtless 
the smallness of the place of meeting, has not gained much head in 
point of numbers. It has been however, in the hands of Mr. Cameron 
and a few others, chiefly from the Taneries, a very interesting and 
useful meeting, the constant object of which was plainly to speak of 
Christ as a Saviour. 

A new feature of interest has recently sprung up in connection 
with this mecting, in the form of a meeting for conversation on the 
essential Gospel truths, led by one or two older gentlemen, which com- 


11 


mences immediately on the close of the regular addresses and lasts for 
half an hour and to which most of those present remain, some to take 
part. This attractive mode of presenting Gospel truth to the people 
is recommended to those interested in such efforts as ours. 


Tue Tracr Disraisurion Work of the year is, on the whole, 
more satisfactory in the retrospect, while there is a prospect of extend- 
ing it systematically, so as to co-operate with the Cottage Meeting 
effort. Myr. Kneeshaw had to complain last year of a decrease in the 
efficiency of his working force among the seamen, but we have no fur- 
ther decrease to note except in the loss of its Chairman, whose place 
has been well filled by Mr. Filer, one who has been closely identified 
with the work from the beginning, The following resolution was 
passed by the Genera! Committee on the reception of Mr. Kneeshaw’s 
Jast report :— 


 Resolved,—That in view of Mr. Kneeshaw’s retiring from his active 
and efficient labors in connection with this Association, this Committee 
desires to express its sense of the loss the Association will sustain in his 
removal, and its hope that the labors of his future life may be even more 
blessed than as we trust his efforts here among the seamen and others 
have been.” 


The following figures show in short the work done :— 


Visited 263 sea-going vessels, and 1000 river-crafts. 
_ Distributed 6,404 English Tracts, 28,554 pages. 


i 1,301 French ‘4 PPE i Meletiaies 
os 50 German ‘“ 278 é 
ge 14 Welsh cc 160 “ 
sf 14 Danish Mc 93 “ 
7,853 32,061 


The labors of another, whose name is by his own request omitted 
here, in distributing tracts in the trains leaving Bonaventure Station, 
were brought to an end by his leaving the city in feeble health ; and 
his earnest desire and prayer that his place might be filled by some 
one else, has not yet been fulfilled. During his whole stay in this 
city, from the month of September, 1864, until the spring of this year, 
he visited the station once, twice, or thrice a day, leaving a tract with 
every traveller, and placing them in the seats where passengers were 
likely to be. He met with many rebuffs and little encouragement, 
save in the promise “ Ye shall reap if ye shall faint not.” Mr. Jar- 
dine has continued his labour among the soldiers, and we cannot per- 
haps better describe it than in his own words, from a report presented 
to your Committee in June :— 

“The Tract work among the soldiers, in connection with your Asso- 
ciation, commenced three and a half years ago by myself in the College 


Street Barracks. The two battallions of Guards, on their arrival, were 
visited by Mr. Massey, your late missionary, and myself, but an order 


B 


12 


having been received from the authorities at home to the effect ‘that no 
Tract distributors could be. allowed to visit the barracks occupied by the 
Guards,’ we were obliged to desist; this order, however, referring to the 
inside of the barracks only, I took the opportunity of giving tracts to the 
men as they passed in and out from the streets; in this way a large num- 
ber of religious papers found their way from time to time inside the bar- 
racks. The work continued in this manner for nearly three years 
when the Guards returned home, their places being filled by others, and 
the authorities’ order having reference to the Guards only with the 
assistance of Mr. , a Theological Student, three of the regiments, 
together with the hospital, canteens and guard-rooms, were regularly 
visited, about eleven hundred tracts given away on the average Sab- 
bath. Mr. , in the fall, through ill health, was obliged to give up 
the work. Mr. Brown, a member of the Association, succeeded him, who 
warmly entered into the work, bringing with him three more helpers; 
since then the whole of the garrison, guard-rooms, canteens, &c., with the 
exception of the 30th Regiment, have been regularly visited and an 
average number of Tracts distributed, about fifteen hundred per week. 
My fellow helpers having sufficient time at their disposal have frequently 
conversed with the men, pressing upon them earnestly and affectionately 
the importance of seeking the Saviour, and by so doing have met with 
much toencourage them. One brother writes mein April last :—‘ A young 
soldier professes to have found the Saviour through the instrumentality 
of Brother F.’ And this is not a solitary instance of good being done. 
Quite a number of soldiers from the different regiments quartered in the 
city have lately joined one of our churches, many of whom more or less 
attribute their conversion under God to the personal and affectionate 
entreaties of our brethren, Mr. Brown and his helpers. It will also be 
remembered that during the Guards’ stay here not a few of them were 
brought to love the Saviour; the judgment day will alone reveal the influ- 
ence these simple messengers of peace exerted on the hearts and conscien- — 
ces of these men, many of whom wetrust are now with us brethren in Our 
Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ. I may also state that your Committee 
last summer applied to the proper authorities for permission for a member 
of the association to visit St. Helen’s Island on Sundays’ during the sum- 
mer with tracts. They immediately complied with the request; an order 
being given to me tocross in the garrison boat on Sunday afternoons which 
I did regularly distributing about 700 tracts every Sabbath among the 
60th Rifles, Artillery and Royal Engineers quartered there. I invariably 
received from them, both officers and men, the greatest kindness, many 
of them frequently expressed their gratitude to the Association through 
me for their kindness in supplying them with religious reading ; time not 
permitting me to have frequent conversation with the men, but when 
opportunities occurred I entered into conversation with them pointing 
out to them the importance of eternal things, and was always listened 
to with thoughtfulness and attention.” 


The number of tracts distributed up to June, by this instrumen- 
tality was 34,900 ; since then only 5,250, owing to the scarcity of the 
supply. During the latter period the barracks were only visited once a 
fortnight, instead of weekly as before. 


With regard to a more general distribution of tracts in connection 
with the winter’s labour, your Committee submit in full the concise 
report of a Special Committee appointed to consider the subject, which 
it is hoped will prove useful in developing this branch of work. 


13 


“The Committee appointed to consider the subject of tract distribu- 
tion in connection with the Association, offer the following suggestions: 


“1st.—That this work be superintended by the Mission Committee and 
Chairmen of Districts. 

“ 2nd.—That all tracts for distribution be in charge of the Secretary at the 
rooms. 

“ 3rd.—That they be given to members by an order upon the Secretary 
from the district chairman in whose district they may be labouring. 

‘“4th.—That distributors report to their district chairmen monthly, the 
number of tracts distributed, and all matters of interest in connec- 
tion with their work, and that such report be handed in connection 
with the regular monthly report to the Mission Committee. 

“5th.—That during the summer season reports be given to the Secretary 
directly, and that no further supply be issued until a report be 
given of those already taken out, 

“ We would also offer a few practical hints to distributors. 

Economy.—Tracts being costly they might be exchanged, which would at 
the same time be an opening for profitable conversation. 

“Tt would be well also to co-operate with any other societies distributing 
in the same district ; or in the case of emigrants, sailors or soldiers 
to find out what was already done for them, and endeavour to take 
new ground, as much repetition has been known to occur, involving 
greater expenses and less good results than by a more systematic 
plan. 

“ Exercise judgment in presenting suitable tracts. 

“Politeness and courage without ostentation. Much frequently depends 
on the manner in which a tract is presented. Kindness and kind 
enquiries as to health frequently do much to make the tract well 
received. 

‘Above all possess the spirit of prayer, relying not upon your own strength. 

“ Look faithfully for results, and He, who is the True and Faithful, may 
be pleased to manifest some fruits of your labours.” 


(Signed), Joun Murray, 
W. Woop Squiru, Committee. 
Mr. OC. R. Buacg, Chairman, Mission Committee. 
Montreal, 13th March, 1865. 


The Montreal Tract Distributors have lately made the rooms of 
the Association their place of meeting, and their co-operation is hoped 
for, in this important work. 


The Montreal Tract Society is thanked for its continued supply of 
tracts, also several gentlemen who haye made up a deficit in the supply 
from that source. 


SunpAY ScHoou.—Our Sunday School in Mountain Street, was 
for a time, in a very low state; the Superintendent resigning after 
being deserted by many of his teachers, It has, however, been ener- 
getically taken up by some members of the Association, and is becom- 
ing as successful as might be expected, considering the limited accom 
modation afforded to it. 


City Missionarizs’ Poor Rertrer Assocration.—At the 
beginning of last winter, the various missionaries of the City united 


14 


of their own motion in a committee of co-operation for the proper 
distribution of alms, a work which had always monopolized their atten- 
tion during the winter months, and for self-defence against imposition. 
The hardships of the poor during the winter were exceedingly great, 
as the strange crowd that met daily in these rooms (accorded for the 
purpose,) attested, and as Mr. Millen’s descriptions of the want and 
wretchedness he found on his visits fully corroborate. After the 
establishment of this means of distribution, subscriptions flowed in and 
on the whole kept up with the necessities of the case. 


One evening in each week was spent by the missionaries in re- 
ceiving reports from each other of the visitations they had made, and 
in considering what could be done to render their labours more efficient. 
These meetings were held regularly, and proved of great advantage. 
The missionaries thus united were able to overtake an amount of work 
in the investigation and relief of cases, as well as the detection of im- 
postors, that could not possibly have been done by them individually. 


The religious instruction of the poor was diligently attended to. 
A daily prayer-meeting was held in the committee room from 9 to 10 
a.m., Which was remarkably well attended, and occasionally during 
the other part of the morning’s proceedings a verse of a hymn was sung, 
or a short tract read. Continuous efforts were made to impress upon 
the minds of the applicants the great importance of attending the 
public means of grace, reverencing the Lord’s day, and sending their 
children to Sabbath School. 


Two special meetings for the religious instruction of the poor 
were held each week by the missionaries; one in Nazareth street, 
Griffintown, on Monday evening, at which the attendance was from 100 
to 180 ; and the other on Tuesday evening, in Wolfe street, Quebec Sub- 
urbs, the attendance being from 30 to 50. Who can estimate the results 
of these meetings for preaching the gospel to the poor? It is believed 
that through these meetings some who had been neglectors of the means 
of grace have been led to attend again the house of God, and several ehild- 
ren have been placed under the influence of Sabbath school instruction. 


Summary oF Donations, Cases Retievep, &c.—Total 
amount of donations received by Missionaries’ Relief Association dur- 
ing past winter, $1,117.75c.; Total amount expended by Relief As- 
sociation, including present liabilities, $1,219. 75ce. 

Number of cases relieved 1st month, 437; 2nd month, 1,663 ; 
3rd month, 1,892; 4th month, 1,182;—total, 5,124. Most families 
were relieved twice a week. 

66 cords of Wood were distributed among 437 families: 1,000 
ibs. good Soap and 228 parcels of Clothing were given to the poor. 

Many persons were provided with situations, and several were 
sent from the City. . 

The Relief Association closed its operations on Wednesday, 
April 12th, 1865. 


15 . 


MEETINGS, CLASSES AND LECTURES. 


THE RecuLAR Association MEETING on Tuesday evening, 
has this year continued active throughout the summer, and has formed 
the much needed neucleus of our operations, affording an opportunity 
to strangers of visiting the Association, and giving it an actuality 
which could not exist so long as it consisted chiefly in a much sub- 
divided body of workers, communicating with a central Committee 
only by means of written reports. Our meetings have been in almost 
every case, deeply interesting, and sufficiently varied by the presence 
of strangers. Much more might result, however, did the members 
generally see more clearly the vital importance of this means of mutual 
encouragement, which gives to each worker who attends it, the con- 
sciousness of the great sympathizing body which acknowledges his 
laborers. 


Tuer Murua Improvement Onxass, held on Friday evenings, 
was commenced in the month of May, the following gentlemen having 
been elected as its officers:—Rev. C. P. Watson, President; Mr. L. 
Cushing, Jr., and Mr. J. R. Middlemiss, Vice-Presidents; Mr. R. H. 
Holland, Secretary; Messrs. T. C. Jones, J. M. M‘Duff, and John 
Turnbull, Committee. 


Under the able and constant supervision of its President, this 
class has grown to 57, the members coming each night averaging about 
25. ‘There have been 10 readings and recitations, and 7 essays,—On 
Selfimprovement, Happiness, True Manhood, History of the Old 
Testament, Elocution, Luther and the Reformation, and The Public 
Press. ‘There have been also four debates on the following questions : 
—Should capital punishment be abolished ? Did the administration 
of Cromwell tend to the general good? Do the writings of Milton 
tend to greater good that those of Shakespeare? Is the perusal 
of works of fiction profitable? And one discussion lasting over two 
evenings on the subject of Health. A thoroughly Christian tone per- 
vades this class, and its existence has assisted the Association’s more 
serious work by supplying from its ranks for a time, at least, speakers 
for the Nazareth Street Meeting. 


A Bipie CONVERSATION CLASS was established on the third 
Sunday in October last, thus supplying a want unfilled for many years, 
It is superintended by Mr. Watson, but is so constituted as to give 
full scope to all present, the only rule being that nothing is to be said 
out of accordance with the Christian and Catholic character of the 
Association, the Chairman deciding finally on all points of doubt, and 
skillfully guiding the thoughts of the class. The subject chosen for 
the current winter has been ‘“ Christ and his Work.” 


Prayer Merrines.—The Sunday afternoon prayer meeting 
has continued throughout the year to be a quiet resting place for a 


16 


good number of praying people. The daily prayer meeting from 4 to: 


5 o'clock has continued to be held at our rooms, and a daily noon 
prayer meeting has been carried on for some weeks in more immediate 
connection with the Association, the object of which is to secure to 
business men an opportunity for noon day prayer. This mid-day hour 
of prayer, which in other large cities of the continent has supplied a 
want of the age, has not yet become appreciated here, but it is carried 
on, that it may be open to all who will use it, and will probably grow. 
The monthly mothers’ prayer meeting also continues to honour the 
rooms. From all these assemblies there arise frequent pleadings to 
the throne of Grace for a blessing on our Association, and we may 
well expect an abundant answer. 


Sooran Mxrrrinas.—The Annual festival held on the 15th 
December last, was very well attended. The Rey. Canon Bancroft 
occupied the chair, and one or two other clergymen addressed the 
audience. The Band of the P. ©. O. Rifle brigade supplied some 
very fine sacred music. The financial result, however, was very unsatis- 
factory. Beginning with our last annual meeting, we have had every 
month during the year one Tuesday evening set apart as a social Tea 
Meeting. These have always been well attended and have been well sup- 
plied with interesting speakers. Since the spring it has been the practice 
to trust to the good-will of members of various congregations in the 
city, to supply the tables, and several ladies of the congregation in ques- 
tion, have always been in attendance. This system has been exceed- 
ingly successful in its working. In this connection, we should not 
omit to notice an interesting meeting which took place soon after the 
resignation of Mr. Claxton. The members of the committees with 
which he had laboured, invited a number of ministers and the former 
presidents of the Association to meet him in a social gathering at the 
rooms. An Album containing the likenesses of the members of these 
committees was presented with an address expressive of the feelings 
with which the committee parted with a presiding officer so energetic 
and so devoted. 


Lecturgs.—A course of four lectures delivered about the middle 
of last winter by the Rev. Dr. Milburn, resulted disastrously to our 
funds. An interesting lecture on Bunyan’s pilgrim entitled the Man 
and the Course, was kindly delivered in mid-summer by the Rev. J. 
P. Chown,D.D., of Bradford, England, in Zion Church, and notwith- 
standing the season, drew a considerable and respectable audience. 
A course of four lectures by Vice Chancellor Dawson, now being deliver- 
ed, besides giving much instruction to large audiences, promises greatly 
to relieve our financial difficulties. 


ROOMS AND LIBRARY. 


Our Rooms well appointed and well situated as they are, have 
been to strangers hard to find, through the lack of a good sign board, 


17 


a want which is of course little felt by the members themselves. This 
important ‘lack is now being supplied by the generosity of friends 
of the Association. The rooms continue to be exceedingly well used 
and are becoming more and more widely known. ‘The proprietors of 
Hotels and Steamboats have placed our cards in conspicuous places, 
by means of which strangers have been led to visit the rooms. 


Liprary.—We have now a library whichis admirably suited for 
the object for which it was designed. Itis yet, however, only anucleus 
and it is hoped that by the benevolence of the Christian public it may 
yet be greatly enlarged. During the year 16 volumes have been added 
by purchase and two by donation. The number of volumes issued 
has been 1062, viz: 

Sermons, Hssays, &c., 119; Poetry, 75; Scientific, 142; His- 
torical, 144; Travels, 83; Biography, 151; Miscellaneous, 348. 

The reference library is constantly used both by Sunday School 
teachers and clergymen. | 


THE Reapine Room which has been but partially supplied dur- 
ing the past year, former means of support proving insufficient bids 
fair to present much greater attractions during the future through a 
system suggested and actively carried out by Mr. Sandham. The 
proprietors of newspapers have been asked, and in many cases, agreed 
to present their papers to the rooms, Monthly periodicals are ob- 
tained through the favour of subscribers to them who allow them to 
be addressed to the reading-room, and to lie there a month, after 
which they are sent to the subcribers. As this work, which has been 
so far abundantly successful is yet in progress, no figures are given 
further than that we may rely on having at least 100 to 120 periodi- 
cals on our tables and fyles for the coming year. 


THE CABINET is slowly increasing and itis hoped, that members 
and visitors will see its usefulness sufficiently to induce more frequent 
contributions. 


Much has been done by Mr. Sandham to add to the attractive- 
ness of the rooms by means of pictures, &c. 


CORRESPONDENCE, ETC. 


LetTrEers oF InrRopvucTION to other associations have been 
furnished to young men leaving the City to the number of 12. One 
or two letters have been received from members who have found siiu- 
ations in other places, and others, who when here had enjoyed the 
hospitality of the Association. 


An AppDRESS OF CONDOLENCE was sent to the Young Men’s 
Christian Associations of the United States on the sad occasion of the 
death of their late President, Mr. Lincoln. This letter was received by 


18 


those to whom it was addressed with much kindness, and replies full 
of affection and gratitude were received from the Associations in the 
City of New York, Trenton, N. J., Springfield, Ill., Detroit, Brook- 
lyn, Washington, D. C., Plymouth, Mass., Baltimore, Md., Chicago, 
Milwaukee, Newark, N. J., Poughkeepsie, N. Y., Wilmington, Del. 

Correspondence has been had, and Committees appointed on 
various subjects, such as Ragged-Schools, Poor Relief, and the hawking 
of bibles. Your Committee while feeling it unable for the present to 
take hold of it would urge on the Christian public the great need 
which exists in this City of some systematic effort for the good of the 
poor children who are growing up uncared for in vast numbers. With 
reference to Bible selling an arrangement was made, which but for un- 
foreseen difficulties would have been carried out, for having a cart for the 
sale of Bibles at the grounds of the recent Exhibition. It was hoped 
by that means to convey the word of God to the hands of some who 
had not hitherto cared for it. 


FINANCES. 


In the former part of the year we were forced by necessity to 
push our mission collections, although with the consciousness that 
owing to the scarcity of money then prevalent we were losing much 
by being so early in the field. Our Association account has shown 
during the year an increasing indebtedness ; the amount of our liabil- 
ities having been computed recently at about $1300. This was 
the result of an expenditure for some years back, much larger than 
that of former times, and the financial pressure which not only rendered 
collection for the mission fund somewhat harder than usual, but crip- 
pled our efforts at improving the condition of the Association, causing 
our usual sources of revenue, our festivals, lectures, &c., to turn out 
unfortunately. For these reasons we have found it necessary to lay 
the Association fund, for the first time, before the Christian public, 
and although we have been unsuccessful in getting those to present 
the matter, whose standing in the community would add weight to the 
request, good progress has been made towards the liquidation of our 
debt, and the general good will expressed towards the Association on 
the part of Christians of standing has been almost as pleasing as their 
liberality. Help has also come from unexpected sources in the gener- 
ous offer of a course of lectures by Dr. Dawson, and the kind appro- 
priation on the part of the Gymnastic Club of the returns of their 
recent entertainment. The colleetions among the merchants of the 
City as well as the accounts of these efforts being yet in an incomplete 
state, we give no precise figures. We return our thanks to those who 
have assisted us so willingly in our time of need. , 

About $500 have been already received from various sources 
towards lessening our debt, not including what is expected from Dr, 
Dawson’s lectures. | | | 


MontTREAL, November 28th, 1860. 


The MontREAL Youne MEn’s CuristTIAN Assocration, in account with James Ross, Treasurer. 
re ALR OG LATION ACCOUNT. dy. 

as 2 Sf eee Se $20 = SS Sa ie oe oe tae tS Sek 
‘To Balance due Treasurer as per last report.............-...0.0005 65.45 By Cash, received Membership Subseriptions ............... Sas oy cae 
Tr o Cash, paid Printing and Advertising..................c0 cee ene 538.60 By Cash, received Membership Subscriptions, ‘‘Special” . 116.00 
To Cash, paid Starke & Co., Printing Reports, &¢................. 100.00 | By Cash, received for Library from Willard and Strickland Societies _ 20.00 
To Oash, paid J. McKay and J. Clendinanfor attendance atRooms 90.00 | = By-Cashs 2. J Claxton, Dortation :.c0. Zo. cee cae res fem - 1900 
To Cash, paid Sundry Accounts, including Gas, Coals, Postage, By Cash, Fredk. Kay, do eee te tee; noi ast oO: Meads ht ee = ae 
; AMSUS RMON Rig Ge ois v0 usd: Chee e.g oS hee csc ner ene: 248.10 By Cash, E. K, Greene, bn cx ce) cones a aes OY A a ks 
To Cash, paid for fetter Prem,ci,..cc-) 2 4.1.20... tee. 7.06 By-Cash, Dayid Torrazice, ‘ do=- = 2.2.6.2. Sa eke s ee eee . 100.00 
To Cash, paid Robert Campbell & Co.................. nape Fad 106.34 | By Cash, George Stephen, do .....-.-...--++s sere eee es seve 00.00 
"TO Gis A PON, EMBUTIT. <5 os oo 2 fe cn sd Sa ccs canne cas 78.00 By Cash, Alex. Walker, do Sa eo ee a Ee 50.00 
To Cash, paid A. Sandham, Assistant-Secretary — Librarian... 395.75 By Cash, Sundry Donations...........-::sssescseee esses ee, is. cu ee SEO 
To Rent "of Rooms for 1 PORE 3 os ogi tees vibe ete e eee ee tenes 500,00 By Cash, Proceeds of Gymnasti¢ Entertainment. . Se ee oO 
20-3 AEOS-100 3004 QUE TROO. o3 6 ses tse oe iss Ceri i vss 138.20 By Cash, R. Crawford, of H. B. Co., Donation............-.. waaas.s 5.00 
: | By Cash, from a Friend, per Thos. Marshall................-... .- 10.00 
3 | By Cash, neat Hobson: atte ot. Ca Lo Cee Ps 5a oe 87.00 
| By Balance. . BN cs tele, MER Les Oe aio. xs aurea oT 
$1,782.42 $1,782.42 

To Balance Que P rp asp rer ¢xsisas +i aa es Sha ss at i $410.87 ; =s- pee al 

‘MISSION ACCOUNT. 

1865. $ c. 1865. $ c¢. 
To Cash, paid Rey. C. P. Watson’s Salary.............. Wood. = eee By Balance on hand as per last Report............. iB Sales i> 
To Cash, paid Mr. J. Millen’s Salary..........sees ccs e eee ence ee. 522.00 By Cash, Collection from Zion Church, per JR. Dougall. oar ee 
To Cash, paid Rent Mountain Street Mission House............... 139.50 By Cash, Collection from Am. Pres. Church, per J. A. Bazin..... 287.00 
To Gash, paid for Hymn Books for Cottage Meetings.............. 9.50 By Cash, Collection from First Baptist Church, per D. Bentley. a > 202.00 
To Cash, paid Expenses for Mission Work....................5055 27.98 By Cash, Collection from Coté-Street Church, per J. Ross......... 124.50 
LO Cash, paid SUHGry ACCOUNT ns <5....0/68 reaa heed ts hens sees 18.90 By Cash, Collection from GreatSt. James- Street Wesleyan Chnrely 

per Messrs. Stewart and Middlemiss................ 95.70 

By Cash, Collection from St. Paul’s Church, per W, ‘Reid. siaialae 72.00 

By Cash, Collection from Dr. Taylor’s Chureh.. 4, 2 ee oes 41,50 

By Gash, Collection from ax eiLy SErerGR Ea ae 10.75 

By Cash, George Cruikshank............ GET Re ie eee one vais 4.00 

Sahat By Cash, TOS RINT PE his aie a oe Dv ie nae athe Bae 5.00 

$1,417.88 $y Cashi, -Discomse On SVEN G. no oe eae ee nee phen eeann 3.20 

—————= |. By Gash, J.S. Warnock..........0....0sceceveseesseeece ees Se 3.00 

To Balance due Treasurer.........6.06. 000000 5: Se: ak £57.60 bd Rodden det BE eee SS ee ee oe 8 id oy 

Weweieas. March Ist, 1866, Sp si Soc fobs hapa Hoh CS Ee eek OE eek te a ee aya 7-60 

Audited, and found correct. $1,417.88 
ees ROBERTSON eee 

E. STILES LYMAN. a 


LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS 


TO THE CITY MISSION—1865. 


ZION CHURCH. 
Collections by J. R. Dougall 


and C. R. Black. 


Charles Alexander . .$50.00 
Mr. & Mrs. H. ang 40.00 
John Dougall & Co.. 25.00 
David Lewis ........ 20.00 
George Winks........ 20.00 
Savage & Lyman.... 20.0() 
Foulds & Hodgson. . . 20.00 


C. Jamieson...... 10.00 
James Baylis........ 10.00 
Wm. McDougall..... 10.00 
J. P. Clark.......... 10.00 
James Williamson .. 10.00 
P. Wie WOO oss ae oe 10.00 
ee” Bere 10.00 
Hy. Vennor.......... 5.00 
W. Learmont........ 5.00 

RE ee 5.00 
Robert Seath iat ee 5.00 
Frs. Scholes ....-...- 5.00 
F. KE. Grafton........ 5.00 
W. J. Patterson, 64 & oar 
Ken, Campbell Kas ants 5.00 

W.H. Clare......... 5.00 
C. F. Smithers....... 5.00 
A. McK. Cochrane .. 5.00 
John Leeming ...... 5.00 
Alfred Savage ..-... 5.00 

ee ae 5.00 

W. 0. Buchanan . 4.00 
Thos. Robertson & Co 3.00 
. B. Learmont...... 2.00 
J.S. Warnock....... 2.00 
Alex. Arthur.......-. 2.00 
a UTtON. «oes. 2.00 
Jas. McOlure........ 2.00 
H. Chandler......... 2.00 
EK. Wright. 2.00 

es Bathetand.. 2.00 

G. Perry. sifes bends 2.00 
J. * Molsaihtain bs ica ame 2.00 
Wm. Moodie......... 2.00 
Jno. Popham........- 2.00 
W. Ireland.......... 1.00 

$367.50 


First Baptist CHURCH. 
Collected by T. Jas. Claxton 


and Dowd Bentley. 
T. James Claxton . ees 00 
+. M. Thomson...... 95.00 
J. C.Lonsdale....... 15.00 
Wm. Muir..........- 10.00 
FE. Wig ahs ce en ens 20.00 


James Thomson...... 10.00 


W. B. Cordier. ...... 10.00 


Mrs. Jas. Muir 


AMERICAN PRESBYTERIAN 


Collected by J. A. Bazin. 


E. F. Am 
Collected _ “by EK. 


eoevoeet ee eee eeee 


eeeeevreereee rere 


eurcee 


Prowse & McFarlane. 
4 D.U 


Core Street CHURCH. 
Collected by Jas. Ross. 


Robt. Anderson 


: os. McKay & Bros. .$10.00 
8.00 


SE ON Ste 

Tap " Stirling ere ree é 
Jno. Redpath........ 5.00 
D. Morrice ....--.... 5.00 
Peter Redpath ...... 5.00 
SE, P'TISOLL «oes cess 5.00 
> ie es 5.00 
Jno. McIntosh ...... 2.50 
W.C. Munderloh.... 2.00 
C. C. Snowdon ...... 2.00 
J.C. Watson ......5. 2.00 
A. Stevenson........ 2.00 
Jno. Campbell....... 2.00 
Geo. Steele.......... 2.00 
A. Ferguson ........ 2.00 
a OS ee 2.00 
ree Cameron . 2.00 
A.C. Sutherland. . 2.00 
G. GOwper + +s <sepe>'s 2.00 
F. W. Torrance...... 4.00 
C. C. McDougall . 2.00 

rae McDonald (L. K. 

SRT ee ae 2.00 
STO ALO s 3 ce seiens 1.00 
J. He Maney <0 coos os 1.00 
A. McGoun........05 00 
D.McDougall........ 1.00 
$124.50 


LAGAUCHETIERE STREET CaA- 
NADA PRESBYTERIAN 


CHURCH, 
Warden King........ $10.00 
Geo. Rogers......+++: 5.00 


David Macfarlane . 5, 00 
Andrew Robertson .. 5.00 


Ci ee ee 3.00 
Jno. Watson ........ 2.00 
ls FIOUIOR aes ee 5.00 
Jas. Walker ........ 1.50 
Pay PGs soe oe ne ess 1.00 
el! Co eee 1.00 
J: Thomson. -........ 1.00 
Oe AMET sinh ake 1.00 
i Watt 8 Gleeson nis 0.50 
OIGEE 3 > esas s 45s 0.50 
$41.50 
WESLEYAN METHODIST 
CHURCH. 
Collected by Stewart & Mid- 
dlemiss. 

Ferrier & Co......--. $20.00 
D. Torrance........: 10.00 
gk IR Res eri 5.00 
Mle |, th kaon ch Oe SSS 20.00 
1M. Bs criaxi ea wr iss 5.00 


21 


AES RE $5.06 

FT GORIEP Rs lice 5.00 
Jno. Sinclair ........ 4.00 
oi IEE es ne ieee s 5.00 
pO EO” ae 5.00 
ee Se 2.00 
Vos tangs ES le 2.50 
ti See 1.00 
D. McMillan BALE fae 1.20 
Te ae vice Fk Dw 1.00 
We eee RO oveke vas 1.00 
ye RD ae 1.00 
R. Graham.......... 1.00 
eg ES gras Sige 1.00 
$95.70 


St. Pauw’s Cuurca. 
Collected by Wm. Reid. 


A. Allan ’64 & 65. ...$10.00 
Jno. Aitken, °64 & 65 5.00 
A. Baird, 64 & °65... 2.00 
Jas. Fairie, 764 & 65. 2.00 
Robt. Kerr, *64 & 765 3.00 


C. ms air 64 & °65 $2. 00 | T. McGarity 
W.A. Merry....- 


Ferguson, 64 4.00 


Gan, Sion ‘oath 5.00 
Jas. Johnston....---> 5.00 
J. Greenshields, Son, 

Me Cor ey 3.’ 6.5 2. 5. 
Alex. Buntin ........ 5.00 
Robert Muir .......- 5.00 
William Darling - 5.00 
Alex. Mitchell & Co 5.00 
Wit, SUee as... ss--, 2.50 
A. sag Mophereon, 64 & i 
Geo, Templeton....-. 1.00 

RRM PN TRee Oe bees 0.50 
CS ae 1.00 
Chas. Esplin .......- 1.00 
oS a 1.00 

$72.00 


TRINITY CHURCH. 
Collected by Mr. Judge. 
W. Coope 


A riend | (ELS. Dba 2.00 
G. Ringland.......-. 1.00 


A Friend 


DoNATIONS RECEIVED FOR 
ASSOCIATION ACCOUNT. 
R. C. Jamieson...... $25.00 
P. Redpath.» 2p. ss. 15.00 
Nelson & Wood...... 25.00 
W. Rodden & Co..... 10.55 
J. McLennan........ 25.00 
Geo. Childs.......... 10.00 
I, Ths Cs iW anes 12.00 

Re RE ee 5.00 
H. W. perm codes 4.00 
Mr. Larmonth....... 2.00 
Mr. Schnyder..... ies AO 
Sundry Amounts..... 20.00 
$158.55 


eeeee 


T. R. ‘Johnson... 


CONSTITUTION. 


ARTICLE I, 


This Society shall be called “Tae Montreat YounG MeEn’s CHRISTIAN 
ASSOCIATION.” 


ARTICLE II. 


Its objects shall be, the religious and mental improvement of its Mem- 
bers, especially in connection with the study of the Scriptures ; the union 
of young men of various Churches in this and other plans of usefulness ; 
and the providing of means by which young men, coming as strangers 
into the city, may be brought under religious influences among their own 
class. 


Anrticue III. 


This Association adopts, as the basis of all its proceedings those 
fundamental principles of Evangelical Christianity on which all Orthodox 
Protestant Churches are agreed, and will never admit any intermeddling 
with those matters of Faith and Polity on which such Churches differ. 


ARTICLE LV. 


This Association shall be composed of Active, Associate, Life, and 
Honorary Members. Any young man, who is a member in good standing 
of an Evangelical Church in this city, may be elected an Active Member. 
Any young man, of good moral character, may be elected an Associate 
Member. Any Associate Member, who shall unite with an Evangelical 
Church, becomes thereby an Active Member, due notice thereof having 
been given to the Secretary. Any member in good standing of an Evan- 
gclical Church, who contributes $100 to the funds of the Association at 
one time, may be elected a Life Member, An active member, by con- 
tributing $100 to the funds at one time, thereby becomes a life member. 
Active, Life, and Honorary Members only have the right to vote, and be 
eligible to office. The Association shall have power to expel members. 


ARTICLE V. 
The annual subscription for Active and Associate Members shall be 
One Dollar, payable in advance. 
Articte VI. 


The Officers of the Association shall be—a President, four Vice- 
Presidents, a Treasurer, and a Secretary; these, with Fifteen members 
of Committee, shall form the General Committee of the Association. 


Arricts VII. 


An Annual Meeting shall beheld in the month of November, to 
receive the Report of the General Committee and elect their successors. 


23 


Articire VITT. 
All elections shall be by ballot. 


ArtTIcLE IX, 


All meetings of the Association and Committee shall be opened and 
olosed with prayer. Seven members shall be a quorum of the Associa- 
tion, and five of the General Committee. 


ARTICLE X. 


It shall be competent for the General Committee, with the approval 
of the Association, to engage such persons as may be deemed necessary 
to carry out the objects of the Association. 


ARTICLE XI. 


This Constitution shall not be altered or amended except by a two- 
thirds vote of the members present at the Annual Meeting, or at a Special 
Meeting called for that purpose. A month’s notice of any proposed 
alteration or amendment must be given to the Association. 


ener te RE Le 


BY-LAWS. 


ARTICLE f. 
MEMBERSHIP. 


1.—Ail propositions for membership shall be made in writing by an 
Active Member, at a regular meeting of the Association, and shall contain 
the name in full, the residence, the church of which the candidate is a 
member, or if not a church-member, the congregation with which he is 
connected, and shall be signed by the proposer. Elections shall not take 
place before the next succeeding business meeting. 

2.—The Members shall seek out young men taking up their residence 
in the city, endeavour to bring them under moral and religious influences, 
and, by every means in their power, to surround them with Christian 
associates. Members shall also exert themselves to interest the churches 
to which they respectively belong in the objects and welfare of the Asso- 
ciation. They shall labor to induce all suitable young men of their 
acquaintance to connect themselves with the Association, and use all 
practicable means for increasing its membership, activity and usefulness, 


ARTICLE II. 
DUTIES OF OFFICERS. 


i.--It shall be the duty of the President, or in his absence, of a Vice- 
President to preside at all Meetings of the Association and General Com- 


24. 


mittee, and to preserve in strict exercise the rules established by Parlia- 
mentary order. 

2.—It shall be the duty of the Treasurer to receive all monies, and 
to disburse the same under the direction of the General Committee. He 
shall keep a full and correct account of his transactions, and report to 
the General Committee when so required, and to the Association at its 
Annual Meeting. 

3.—It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep a correct record of 
the proceedings of all meetings of the Association, and of the General 
Committee; to keep a full and complete register of the name, residence, 
and church of each member; to notify all Officers and Members of their 
election or appointments ; and to prepare the work for the business meet- 
ings. He shall, under the direction of the General Committee, conduct 
the correspondence of the Association, and keep copies of all letters 
written and fyles of those received. He shall also prepare the annual 
report of the General Committee. 

4—The General Committee shall have the management of the 
affairs of the Association, and shall present a report at each monthly 
business meeting and at the annual meeting. 


ARTICLE III. 
STANDING COMMITTEES. 


1.—From the General Committee the President shall appoint the 
following Standing Committees:—A Committee on Membership, Rooms, 
and Library; a Committee on Missions; a Committee on Lectures, 
Classes, and Meetings ; 2 Committee on Finance ; and a Committee on 
Boarding-houses. ‘They shall report to each monthly meeting of the 
General Committee. The President and Secretary shall be ex-officio mem- 
bers of each Standing Committee. 

9—'The Committee on Membership, Rooms, and Library shall consist 
of five members, to whom all propositions for membership shall be 
referred. They shall secure the co-operation of an active member in each 
Evangelical Church in the city, who shall report upon propositions 
referred to him, seek out new members, and endeavour to interest his 
congregation in the Association. They shall also take charge of the 
Rooms and Library of the Association. 

3.—The Committee on Missions shall consist of five members, and it 
shall be their duty to superintend the Mission work of the Association. 

4.—The Committee on Lectures, Classes, and Meetings, shall consist 
of five members, and shall provide for the delivery of Lectures or Ser- 
mons; have charge of Bible and Literary Classes, and all meetings not 
under the direction of the Committee on Missions. 

5.—The Committee on Finance shall consist of three members, shall 
devise meams for obtaining necessary funds for the Association; and shall 
examine and approve all accounts referred to them by the General Com- 
mittee previous to their payment by the Treasurer. The Treasurer shall 
be an ex-officio member of this Committee. 

6.—The Committee on Boarding-houses shall consist of three mem- 
bers, and it shall be their duty to aid young men in finding suitable 
boarding-houses, and to endeavor to establish family worship in such 
places where it is not observed. 


ARTICLE IV. 
ELECTION OF GENERAL COMMITTEE. 3 
1.—At the last business meeting previous to the Annual Meeting, 


the General Committee shall nominate its successors, and other nomina- 
tions shall then be received. 


25 


2,—A majority of the votes cast shall be an election. 

3.—Any member of the General Committee absenting himself from 
three consecutive monthly meetings of the Committee, without sufficient 
reason, shall vacate his office. All vacancies shall be filled by the Gene- 
ral Committee. 


ARTICLE V. 
MEETINGS. 


1.—A Regular Meeting of the Association shall be held every Tues- 
‘day Evening. A Business Meeting shall be held on the Second Tuesday 
of each month. 

2.—The General Committee shall meet each month previous to the 
regular business meeting of the Association. 

3.—Special meetings of the General Committee may be called at the 
option of the President, or at the request of three Members of the Com- 
mittee. Special Meetings of the Association shall be held at the written 
request of ten members, or at the option of the President, to be called by 
public advertisement. 


ARTICLE VI. 
ALTERATIONS. 


1.—No alterations or additions shall be made to these By-Laws, 
except by a two-thirds vote of the members present at a business meeting. 
A month’s notice of the proposed change shall be given to the Asso- 
ciation. 

2.—Any By-Law may be suspended for the time being by a two-thirds 
vote of the members present at a business meeting. 


