= ‘one oe: anid Sd fourteenth 


oo REPORT. == 


| 965 


YOUNG MEN'S ‘CHRISTIAN. ASSOCIATION: z 
Se eS OF MONTREAL fer —— 


Ring. 


oe 


i ates 


1965 

114th ANNUAL REPORT 

OF THE 

YMCA OF GREATER MONTREAL 
JUNE 1, 1965 - MAY 31, 1966 


CONTENTS 

Page 
yo a gr) a ea ei ee Pe aa a ee 1 
ee ede fe es ee, Se 4 ae a 2 
UP ef ty eh ea ARR els eo eck wk Ree ee ee 4 
RRA AMD STATOTIC’N 2 kb eh Sed ee RR Se 5 
PEADERSIP DEVELOPMENT 6 oc eh ee he ae 5 
ene a a ace FO ea ace eee ed ok 6 
Wet SROVICR 3 2 5 oh ee ee + ee aes 7 
FPEUANCE AMD PROPERTY wf 6 Sou Wines x dG me Se 9 
SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY AND SCHOOLS ... 10 
PERSOMIEL. CHANGES Foca <a es Goa ae Re oe eS 15 
ETO. es 3a a a 2 ee Os a 15 
OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS OF THE ASSOCIATION... . 16 


iol “OF BRANCHES AND GAMPS: .s.6 «96 «© «lence. se ws 17 


=. <, -* “YAAUTIOO 


ee, SHY 10 aMOTOEAIG OHA eASOTERO 


INTRODUCTION: 


"A PRELUDE TO PROGRESS" 


During the period under review many important steps 
have been taken to build a foundation for future growth. 


Almost every area of association activity has been 
closely scrutinized with a view to increasing the efficiency 
and adaptability of a complex association in a period of rapid 
and sometimes radical change. Areas of potential future 
growth have been identified, leadership has been mobilized, 
even time proven campaign procedures have been up-dated to 
keep pace with the computer age. 


Most of the YMCA's better known activities have con- 
tinued and in fact have been expanded to meet the needs of 
newer communities. A number of newer ventures have been 
tested through pilot projects which are identified later in this 
report. 


The YMCA has responded in significant ways to a new 
spirit of ecumenism, a revolution in education, a growing 
concern of youth to make their voices heard and their efforts 
count in a deeply troubled world. Never in the history of the 
Montreal YMCA have so many been as keenly concerned and 
deeply involved in building an Association which can face the 
uncertainties of the future with confidence and willingness to 
meet new situations in different ways. 


The year has had its set-backs too. The continual 
struggle for sufficient financial resources persists, manpower 
needs have been intensified, some imaginative projects have 
been postponed for lack of funds. But each of these problems 
has been confronted by a determined and dedicated leadership 
and in a spirit which augers well for the future of this Associ- 
ation. 


As we stand in the midst of this tempest of our times, 
our vision blurred by the uncertainties of today and tomorrow, 
we can face the future with the kind of optimism which comes 
from a year of transition and of building for the future. 


HIGHLIGHTS - 1965 


$6, 100,683 was realized towards the $6, 108,000 objective of the 
Sir George Williams University Building Fund under the leader- 
ship of Mr. W.N. Hall. The new Henry F. Hall Building is 
rapidly nearing completion for occupancy this Fall. Student 
enrollment at Sir George Williams University and Schools con- 
tinues to climb and an increasing number of applicants were 
unable to be accommodated. 


Several YMCA Branch Boards of Management held weekend work- 
shops to develop guidelines for the future. The increased repre- 
sentation of youth at these workshops and on various boards and 
committees marks a significant move towards a greater involve- 
ment of youth and the development of the future leadership of the 
Association. 


A Centennial-Expo 67 committee was established to stimulate 
and co-ordinate YMCA participation in these events. Mr. C.A. 
Morrison accepted the chairmanship of this committee and J. 
Walter Kemball, formerly the Executive Secretary of the Down- 
town YMCA, was appointed Dir: ctor of Centennial-Expo projects 
for the Montreal YMCA. 


Eight teen-agers from various branches were selected to attend 
a YMCA World Youth Conference in Stavanger, Norway during 
the Summer of 1966. Various groups initiated projects to help 
finance the attendance of these youthful delegates from Montreal. 


Work with "detached youth" in lower N.D.G. and the area sur- 
rounding International Branch was introduced as a pilot project 
in September. Three YMCA Fellowship Students made contact 
with youth who had severed most traditional ties with society. 

As result of these projects, a Coffee House program was intro- 
duced at International Branch and two students continued to work 
on a full-time basis in lower N.D.G. during the Summer of 1966. 


The conversion of YMCA campaign records for computer use was 
a major project during the Summer and Fall of 1965. Asa result, 
much of the time-consuming clerical detail work should be mini- 
mized in future campaigns and greater efficiency in computing 
results, producing reports and receipts can be anticipated. 


Renovation of the Stanley Street residence building was continued 
with two more floors being completely modernized during the past 
year. 


World Service captured the imagination of youth and a number 
of projects such as ''Bathing suits for Bangkok" provided a 
very meaningful relationship between them and youth in devel- 
oping nations. The Montreal YMCA raised $41,106 towards 

a minimum objective of $40,000. A city-wide World Service 
Workshop in the Fall was instrumental in bringing a large 
number of youth into direct contact with prominent lay leaders 
and staff who had personal experience with various World 
Service Projects. 


Membership continued to climb, particularly in newer sub- 
urban areas and at the Downtown branch. The YMCA assisted 
in training and supervising leaders for various parks and 
playgrounds programs and co-operated in joint leadership 
training projects with an increasing number of community 
groups, clubs, and agencies. 


The Planning and Development Committee with representation 
from all operating units was heavily involved in developing 
the background and research materials which will be instru- 
mental in determining the future directions of the Montreal 
Association. 


The Annual Financial Campaign attained $295,000 towards 
an objective of $318,000 with results still incomplete. 
General Chairman Robert H. Hoppe and Special Names 
Chairman J. Leonard Walker accepted these key campaign 
posts for a second year. 


The extension of YMCA program to new areas continued in 
Chateauguay, Town of Mount Royal and several north shore 
communities. 


Informal Adult Education programs experienced a significant 
growth in both the range of subjects and the numbers regist- 
ered. Spring and Summer programs were popular at the 
Downtown branch in addition to the regular Fall and Winter 
terms. The language program at International Branch was 
further increased through decentralized courses anda 
greater emphasis on the French language. The new Human 
Development Center program at the N.D.G. branch held a 
number of courses in personal development subjects and 
sponsored a number of lectures by distinguished speakers 
from across North America. 


These are a few of the highlights of a very eventful year as 
the Montreal YMCA continues and expands its service to the 
growing youth of metropolitan Montreal. 


or Size 


MEMBERSHIP _ 1965 


The eight YMCA branches had a membership of 18,036 which 
represents a gain of 1,923 members or 11.2% during the year. 
The greatest increase took place at the Lakeshore branch where 
membership increased by 1,807 or 68%. During the same period 
student enrollment at Sir George Williams University and Schools 
reached 21,230, an increase of 9.6% over the previous year. 


An increasing number of YMCA programs, such as detached youth 
projects, camps, community co-operative projects etc. do not 
appear in statistical records in terms of membership growth and 
would substantially increase the total if included. The total number 
of different persons enrolled in YMCA programs during the year 
reached 33,159 which is a gain of just over 10% above the previous 
year. 


Student enrollment at Sir George has for several years been re- 
stricted by the availability of classroom space, much of which has 
been in rented quarters. The prospect of a new building this Fall 
made it possible to accept a modest increase in student enrollment 
as a temporary measure, to help accommodate eligible students 
who might otherwise have been turned away. 


MEMBERSHIP BY UNITS 


Total at Total of different 
Dec. 31, 1965 members during 1965 

DOWNTOWN Uaioe 13, 854 
INTERNATIONAL 1,030 Ce ATEL 
LACHINE-DORVAL 1,033 B553 
LAKESHORE 4,439 6,296 

N. DyG: 1,563 24, Tine 
NORTHMOUNT 1,803 3,034 
VERDUN-LASALLE i 724 
WESTMOUNT 982 1,704 
BRANCH TOTALS 18,036 33 159 

SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS 21520 ~- 
UNIVERSITY AND SCHOOLS 

GRAND TOTAL 40,266 - 


PROGRAM - 1965 In Statistics 


Each year it becomes increasingly difficult to accurately describe 
the full scope of program in the Montreal YMCA in terms of statis- 
tical records which are standard for all YMCA's in North America. 
However some idea of the total impact of the Montreal Association 
can be gained from the following figures. 


- over 60,000 different persons were active in various YMCA 
programs with over 54,000 holding YMCA memberships during 
the year. 

- some 10,000,000 manhours in total attendance was recorded in 
Association activities, divided almost evenly between YMCA 
branch programs and the formal educational programs of Sir 
George Williams and Schools. 

- more than 7,500 persons were enrolled in swimming, life- 
saving and skin and scuba courses; some 1,000 learned to swim 
and 6,500 passed more advanced tests of swimming ability. 

- 4,130 persons were enrolled in regular health and physical fit- 
ness programs. 

- 1,682 persons served as volunteer leaders, advisors, instructors 
in various YMCA programs and 1, 847 others served as members 
of boards, committees and councils. Leadership development 
and training programs again received top priority during the year 
and included representatives of numerous community agencies 
and groups. 

- 1,695 clubs and groups were formed during the year. A slight 
decrease in the number of Hi-Y clubs was offset by an increase 
in youth councils and other new youth programs and a substantial 
increase in the number of clubs for elementary school-age children. 

- Over 30% of all YMCA members are women and girls with an 
increasing number serving actively on boards, committees and 
councils, 

- 175,125 bed-nights were recorded in the YMCA residences with 
visitors coming from almost every country in the world. Occu- 
pancy averaged 85% of capacity. 

- 28,650 personal interviews were held with individuals seeking 
councelling and guidance and some 850 placements were made 
in part-time and full time employment. 


LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT 


Top priority continues to be given to the development of the man- 
power resources needed by an expanding YMCA program in greater 
Montreal. 


1,682 volunteer leaders, advisors and instructors were involved in 
a large number of training projects designed to assist them in their 
leadership of various clubs, groups and other programs. 1, 847 
others served as members of various boards, committees and coun- 
cils and many were involved in workshops, breakfast meetings and 
other special programs geared to helping them to function more 
effectively in carrying out their various responsibilities. 


ee 


STAFF DEVELOPMENT 


During the year almost every staff member was involved in one or 
more programs as part of a long range staff development program. 
An even greater emphasis on staff training was necessary in 1965 
in view of the anticipated heavy involvement of the Montreal YMCA 
prior to and during Canada's Centennial and Expo '67. 


FELLOWSHIP TRAINING PROGRAM 


Many Canadian YMCA Secretaries have at some time been related 
to the fellowship training program which is a joint venture of the 
Montreal YMCA and Sir George Williams University. Many of these 
staff members continue to serve on the staff of the Montreal Associ- 
ation after graduation. 


A recent revision of the Fellowship Plan has for the past two years 
provided a number of ''training fellows'' who have undertaken special 
assignments and pilot projects as part of their final year of training. 
These senior fellowship students during 1965, undertook a number 
of significant new projects such as the detached worker programs 
and Coffee House, and most have now joined the full-time staff of 
the Montreal YMCA. 


Other fellowship students continue to undertake part-time program 
responsibilities in various branches and to combine special YMCA 
oriented courses with the academic requirements of their studies 
at Sir George Williams University. 


CAMPING 


Kamp Kanawana: 420 boys enjoyed a total of 1,200 camper-weeks 
during 1965, This was a reduction from the previous year and has 
been attributed to poor weather, increased attendance of students 
at Summer school, and possible changes in family holiday patterns 
with an increasing popularity of family camping. 


A two-week training program for staff preceded the camp period. 
The program is credited with developing a highly effective staff 
team and continued improvement in camp program. 


Modernization of camp facilities contined and new equipment was 
acquired. 


Les Voyageurs de la Verendrye 


45 older teens enjoyed wilderness camping in northern Quebec. 

This popular program was introduced several years ago when it was 
felt that a more challenging camping program was needed for older 
teens. 


Camp Otoreke - Holiday Island 


In spite of imaginative efforts to develop an attractive holiday pro- 
gram for young adults, the use of the Camp Otoreke site was not as 
extensive as had been anticipated. Some 1,100 young adults spent 
their week-ends or holidays at Otoreke Island during the Summer of 
1965. A number of other YMCA and outside groups used the site for 
conferences and special programs. 


The Otoreke site, near St. Adolphe d'Howard, has been owned by 
the YMCA since 1893 and is the original location of Kamp Kanawana. 
Study is now being made of various ways by which the use of this 

site can be increased and our vacation programs for young adults 

be improved. The Otoreke Ski Lodge on the mainland had a success- 
ful week-end skiing program during the Winter months. 


Day Camps and Fun Clubs 


Some 5,000 youngsters were involved in seven day camps and fun 
clubs and in parks and playground programs organized by the YMCA 
in a number of communities. A new development was the involve- 
ment of the Northmount YMCA in training leaders and supervising 
programs in the communities of Roxboro and Dollard des Ormeaux. 
These programs were financed by the municipalities. Extensive 
training programs provided several hundred teenagers with leader- 
ship skills and the Summer YMCA programs created summer em- 
ployment for many teen-agers. 


WORLD SERVICE 1965 


Under the leadership of Mr. Norman Clelland, Chairman of the 
Metropolitan World Service Committee, a renewed enthusiasm in 
the expanding work of the YMCA on the world front has been devel- 
oped. Youth have caught the challenge of a new global concern which 
urges us to find practical and meaningful ways of responding as 
citizens of one world. 


A city-wide world service workshop early in the Fall received a 
"standing room only" response from youth, many of whom were not 
familiar with the long background of the YMCA's World Service 
program now reaching into the lives of millions in over 80 countries 
around the world. Rev. Wilbur Howard, who had given inspired 
leadership to the YMCA World Conference in Tozanzo, Japan, Mr. 
Maurice Strong who has since been elected President of the Canadian 
YMCA, and Earl Buckley, a former fraternal secretary and present 
members of the International Committee Staff in New York provided 
key-note speeches and discussion groups were lead by laymen and 
staff with first-hand exposure to various YMCA World Service pro- 
grams, 


One direct consequence was a "Bathing Suits for Bangkok" project 
in which youngsters at the Northmount YMCA collected over 100 

bathing suits for anew program in Thailand, being conducted by a 
young Canadian, Roger Kindree. Other groups responded in other 


a a 


ways and the interest of youth is encouraging many long-time sup- 
porters of this program to take a fresh look at the potential for 
making world service an even more important instrument for develop- 
ing bonds of friendship and avenues for new and significant relation- 
ships between the youth of the world. 


Other visitors to Montreal from the world front included Chang Yull 
Kim of Korea, Larry Aplin of France, and Miss Irene Poseiro of 
Montevideo, Uruguay. Speakers also included Dr. John S. Badeau, 
Director of the Near and Middle East Institute who addressed the 
Founder's Day Dinner, and Harold Rae, President of the Canadian 
YMCA who spoke to a number of groups about his recent visits to 
many YMCA's in Africa, Asia and South America. 


During 1965, an amount of $41,106 was realized towards a minimum 
objective of $40,000 and a commitment to substantially increase this 
amount in the year ahead has now been made. 


FINANCE AND PROPERTY 
FINANCIAL CAMPAIGN 


For the second year, the Annual Financial Campaign was held 
during March and April. 


A goal of $318,000 was established as the minimum required to 
undertake the projected work of the Association during the year 
ahead, and in full recognition that this amount would not provide 
adequate resources for all the aspirations of the branches in terms 
of expanded services to their respective communities. 


Robert H. Hoppe was General Chairman for a second year and J. 
Leonard Walker once again chaired the Special Names Division 
assisted by Vice-Chairman A.L. Fairley, Jr. Each gave out- 
standing leadership in the intensive pre-campaign period as well 
as during the active phase of the campaign. 


A major conversion of all campaign records to data processing 
preceded the campaign and involved many additional hours of work 
in the pre-campaign period. Mr. Paul Freeman was instrumental 
in planning and guiding this transition to modern computer methods. 


The public relations committee revised many campaign materials 

and introduced a number of imaginative campaign pieces to get the 
YMCA story across to some 2,000 volunteer canvassers and spec- 
ial segments of the membership and general public. 


With the final results still pending, some $295,000 has now been 
reported - the largest return ever realized by an annual YMCA 
campaign. 


It is clear however, that the original goal of $318,000 will not be 
achieved and that the financial needs of the Montreal YMCA will 
continue to be a major concern in the year ahead. 


PROPERTY 


The heating systems of N.D.G., Westmount, International and 
Downtown Branches were converted from coal to oil during the year. 


Two more floors of the Stanley Street residence were renovated 
with the cost to be recovered from increased revenue over the next 
10 years. Experience to-date following previous renovations of 
other floors has been most favorable. Revenue from the Downtown 
YMCA residence is an important source of revenue and occupancy 
during the past year totalled 175,125 bed-nights or 85% of capacity. 


Other repairs and replacements were made to maintain the various 
buildings and these were of a more routine nature. 


-9- 


SIR_GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY AND SCHOOLS: 


ANNUAL REPORT 


1965-66 


OFFICE OF THE VICE-PRINCIPAL 


This year has been a year when much of our concern has been en- 
gaged on the future. As the new Henry F. Hall Building has taken tangible 
form reminding us that we are on the eve of new possibilities as a result 
of these new facilities, we have kept in careful touch with developments 
in education at all levels in our province, developments that promise to 
make sweeping changes in the pattern of education from the nursery 
school to the university, and studied the probable impact of these changes 
upon the future of Sir George Williams University. Deans and members 
of faculty have been heavily involved in the various committees, some 
appointed by the province, some by the Committee of Rectors and Princi- 
pals of Quebec Universities, that are plotting these changes. Our col- 
leagues who are serving on these committees have kept us well informed 
and our own internal committees, Committees of the University Council 
and Committees of the several Faculty Councils, have been able to work 
all year in the light of the knowledge and advice they have brought us. 
These studies, though by no means completed, will make it possible for 
the university to move relatively quickly and efficiently in the process 
of adapting to the perhaps rather radical changes that are anticipated. 


THE LIBRARY 


This year has seen substantial growth in the collection, considerable 
increase in staff, but no increase in the space available for library oper- 
ations and services. 


Work and consultation continued with our library building consultants 
in the preparation of a written program of requirements for a new main 
library building. The Library Planning Committee have spent many hours 
of meeting going over the semi-final draft of the program. We expect 
that the final edition will be prepared by the fall. 


Despite increased enrolment we have experienced both relative and 
numerical growth in the collection for the second year in succession, 
The program of expansion proposed in 1963, is on schedule, with 13,251 
new titles in 24,112 volumes having been added to the collection this year. 
This rate of acquisition (33%) is almost double that of the previous year 
and indicates what can be done given space, staff, and book funds. 


OFFICE OF GUIDANCE SERVICES 
The year under review has been filled with the normal professional 


activities associated with guidance services. In addition, there has been 
considerable thought and planning connected with the anticipated move to 


«TO = 


fine, expanded facilities in the Hall Building. On May 18, 1966, the 
Office of Guidance Services moved into the Hall Building. The facilities 
have been designed and built to aid in the growth and development of the 
students of the University and Schools, through the philosophy and prac- 
tices of guidance and counselling and they will be used in that spirit and 
to achieve that goal. 


OFFICE OF THE DEAN OF STUDENTS 


The year 1965-66 was faced with some apprehension due to the lack of 
space for student activities, the increased demands of a growing student 
body, the apparent national pressures of student governments and the 
obvious need to initiate investigations essential for continued growth. 

It was only in a climate of cooperative consultation and mutual under- 
standing that the needs could be met and the goals realized. We are 
indeed grateful to the students, faculty and staff for the contributions 
they have made during the past year. 


Each year the student programme covers a wide range of interests and 
involves considerable numbers of students through the many clubs, 
groups and major events which take place during the year. Last year 
1,217 student programme meetings and activities took place. 


Co-curricular programme is considered a vital part of the "learning" 
to which students are exposed at our University. In order that students 
have opportunities for meaningful experience, one major way is to 
work closely with them in the achievement of the goals of higher edu- 
cation. As a result of deliberations between our office and student 
officers, plans were initiated whereby students accepted the responsi- 
bility to evaluate their activities, and to realize the benefits of estab- 
lishing priorities. 


ATHLETIC 


The University athletic programme for the 1965-66 season was again as 
extensive and equally as successful as in previous years. Statistics 
show that 290 students were active in 20 intercollegiate sports. The 
programme offered to the student body included some 44 activities on 
the intercollegiate, intramural and recreational levels of competition. 


Sir George Williams University was represented in sixteenO.S.L.A.A 
activities. There was a total of fourteen sports offered to the student 
body in the intramural programme, a total of twelve activities on the 
recreational level. Co-recreational activities numbered eleven. The 
women's athletic programme offered eight activities. 


OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR OF PLANNING, PHYSICAL FACILITIES 


The construction of the Henry F. Hall Building was the main concern of 
this office for the past year. In June 1965, the general contractor Perini 
Quebec Inc. was pouring the floor slabs in the upper part of the building 
and the precast window panels were about 50% installed, but reinforcing 
steel was still being erected in the theater area. During the fall, work 
progressed quickly in all areas, especially in the installation of the 
boilers in order to heat the building by November. Soon afterwards, the 


= {eA 


service elevator was operative and finishing trades started installing 
the terrazo flooring, gypsum partitions, lights, ceilings, painting, etc. 
On January 17, 1966, members of the Board of Governors made a 
thorough inspection of the building. 


A contract of major importance was awarded to Casey Construction Co. 
Ltd. for alterations to the Norris Building. 


The space vacated by the Physics and Biology Departments, when these 
move to the Henry F. Hall Building will permit the main library to ex- 
pand on the fifth floor of the Norris Building, while the Geography De- 

partment will take over part of the present Chemistry laboratories. 


ASSOCIATION OF ALUMNI 


Honorary Life Memberships to the Association of Alumni were presented 
to: Prof. James G. Finnie, Dr. S. Madras, Mr. Roy Campbell, Dr. I.R. 
Tait and W.N. Hall for their outstanding contributions to the life of the 
University. The banquet was held in the Windsor Hotel on October 22, 
1965. Mr. Ernie Brown acted as Chairman. 


The fifth annual Kenneth E. Norris Memorial Lecture Series were held 
on Monday and Tuesday, November 29th and 30th and Wednesday, 
December lst, 1965 in the Church of the Messiah on Sherbrooke Street. 
The speaker was Frederick M. Watkins, M.A., Ph.D., Professor of 
Political Science at Yale University. His topic was ''Natural Law - Past, 
Present, and Future". Total attendance was about 900. M. Gold con- 
tinued to serve as chairman of the committee. 


OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR 


There was no basic change in the operational pattern of the Registrar's 
Office during the year. A small adjustment was made to register candi- 
dates for the Master's Programmes which were introduced this year. 
The use of computer techniques for storage and retrieval of records 
data has increased according to the plan which anticipates complete 
mechanization within the next two years. 


REGISTRATION IN THE UNIVERSITY BY FACULTIES 


Summer 1965 Academic year 1965-66 
Day Evening Total 


UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMME 


Arts 1,427 L, 2S See 6,738 
Science 424 798 1, 156 2,358 
Commerce 627 869 1,626 3,, lez 
Engineering 30 210 185 425 
Partial 493 1 emo 2,889 
Total 3,001 3,796 8,735 U5 75:32: 
Full-time Part-time Total 


GRADUATE PROGRAMME 


Master of Arts in English 4 6 10 
Master of Arts in Art Education 1 5 6 
Total 5 1l 16 


ae 


HIGH SCHOOL 


In the Summer School of 1965, we had 51 classes with a total enrolment 
of 1,423 students with a class average of 45.1. Of the 51 classes, some 
26 are eleventh year classes. Many of the students in eleventh year 
take one or two subjects during the summer with the hope that they will 
graduate and perhaps qualify for university entrance. Total High School 
registration was 3,476. 


BUSINESS SCHOOL 


The Evening Division of the Business School opened in May 1965 with 
266 students for the summer. 


The summer registration for the Day Division was 42 students. Seven 
were students starting the full Secretarial course. Eleven were partial 
students who signed up for the Typing/ Machines and Filing (July- August) 
course, and the remainder were students from the autumn-winter 
courses who were unable to complete their subjects within the normal 
ten-month period. 


The Day Division of the Business School opened in September for the 
autumn-winter term and had a total registration of 208. Evening Divi- 
sion registration totalled 544, 


SCHOOL OF RETAILING 


The School consisted of 59 students: 36 in first year and 23 in second. 
For the first time since its inception, the first year class contained a 
preponderance of males. This may signify that the fashion reputation 
that the School had created in the past has been replaced by one of 
professional retail training. The geographical composition of the stu- 
dent body again represented a wide spectrum of Canada, for the students! 
domiciles were listed as far east as Newfoundland and as far west as 
British Columbia. 


os Ee 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY AND SCHOOLS 


Fraser F. Fulton 
Fred N. Dundas 


Chairman and Chancellor 
Vice-Chairman 


Lt.=Gol._3s. G. Holland 
R.C. Rae - 


Vice-Chairman 
Principal and Vice-Chancellor 


CHAIRMEN OF METROPOLITAN STANDING COMMITTEES 


Executive = W.N. Hall 
Finance and Property = A.R. Hicks 
Investment - W.C. Corbett 
Endowment - J.R. Crawford 
Public Relations - F.W. Bradshaw 
Founder's Day - W.N. Hall 
Otoreke - M. LaBrooy 
Building =~ Jott, Taw 
World Service - W.N. Clelland 
Salary - R.A. Irwin 
Personnel - R.A, Irwin 
Boys' Camp = E.J. Stafford 
Program = K.H. Oxley 
Planning and Development - W.S. Kirkpatrick 


ADVISORY BOARD 


H.H. Lank 

E.A. Leslie 
A.W. Mason 
H.M. Mawhinney 


T.H. Atkinson 
L.J. Belnap 
Henry G. Birks 
G.W. Bourke 


J.M. Breen J.G. McConnell 

A.H. Campbell *W.G. McConnell 

M.R. Chipman J.D. McKeown 

J.H. Davey T.R. McLagan 

S.G. Dobson R.O. McMurtry 

G.V. Ferguson E.C.V. Norsworthy 
Hon. G.B. Foster Maj. Gen. F.R. Phelan 
J.A. Fuller R.E. Powell 

B.C. Gardner B.W. Roberts 

G.B. Gordon Hi. Ross 

H.J. Hannaford H.G. Smith 

R.D. Harkness H.H. Southam 

G.R. Hodgson R.E. Stavert 

R.C. Holden, Q.C. G. Tombs 

W.H. Howard, Q.C. Maj. Gen. A.E. Walford 
A.C. Jensen F,B. Walls 

F. Johnson E.C. Wood 


R.R. Johnson 
*Deceased 


a 


PERSONNEL CHANGES 


New Appointments 


Ed Giles - Physical Director, N.D.G. 

Rob Sherry - Assistant Physical Director, Downtown 
Jack Soule - Assistant Secretary, Lachine-Dorval 
Harley Smith - Assistant Secretary, Lakeshore Branch 
Shawn Erb - Adult Program Secretary, N.D.G. 

Ann Donovan - Girls Physical Education Secretary, I. leGi. 
Alan Cook - Adult Program Secretary, Downtown 

Ted Reid - Assistant Secretary, Lachine-Dorval 

Alan Clark - Assistant Physical Director, Downtown 


Transfers 


Vic Bryant - Hi-Y Secretary, N.D.G. to Assistant 
Executive Secretary N.D.G. 


Russ Kisby - Assistant Physical Director, Downtown 
to Physical Director, Downtown. 


Rix Rogers - to Assistant General Secretary 


A.W. Kemball - Executive Secretary, Downtown to 
Director YMCA Centennial-Expo. 


Vic Hryhorchuck - Executive Secretary, Lachine-Dorval to 
Executive Secretary, Downtown. 


Randy Skaling - Assistant to Executive Secretary, 
Lachine-Dorval. 


Resignations 


Clarence McCully - Assistant General Secretary - to retire. 


Colin McKay - Director of Camp Otoreke to Hamilton, Ontario, 


YMCA. 
Obituary 

We record with sorrow the passing of 

a number of friends of the Association. 
K.K. Balwin George S. Mooney 
Miss Alice Brainaid Dr. G.S. Morgan 
R.A. Emerson L.D. Richardson 
Dr. Isadore B. Hirshberg W. Wynne Robinson 
Morgan M. Johnston H.J. Symington, Q.C. 
Mrs. I.W. Killam R.C. Vaughan 
A. Hartley Loft Mrs. M.W. Wilson 
Wilson G. McConnell Dr. Arthur L. Walsh 


« 36% = 


METROPOLITAN OFFICERS 


AND BOARD MEMBERS 


OFFICERS 


H. Roy Crabtree 
T. Denton Lewis 
W.N. Hall 


W.S. Kirkpatrick 


J.D. Houlding 
J.R. Logan 

W.C. Corbett 
F.G. Hubbard 
R.G. Rogers 


- Honorary President 

- President 

- lst Vice-President 

- 2nd Vice-President 

- 3rd Vice-President 

= Honorary Secretary 

= Honorary Treasurer 

- General Secretary 

- Assistant General Secretary 


DIRECTORS 


J.C. Annesley 

R. Bailey 

J.dvFia Bancroft 

A. Turner Bone 
F.W. Bradshaw 
LH... Clegg 

W. Norman Clelland 
C. Leslie Copland 
J.R. Crawford 

Fred N. Dundas 


*R,A. Emerson 


A.L. Fairley, Jr. 
John B. Frosst 
Fraser F, Fulton 
E.L. Hamilton 

G. Arnold Hart 
R.E. Heartz 
Louis Hébert 
A.R. Hicks 
George M. Hobart 


Lt. Col. SiG... Holtand 


Alex Kabbash 
T.M. Lawrence 
J.W. McGiffin 
D.R. McMaster Q.C. 
R.E. MacKay 
C.A. Morrison 
E.C.V. Norsworthy 
K.H. Oxley 

F.B. Peterson 
Charles E. Reckitt 
W.D. Robb 

A.E, Sargent 
Eric J. Stafford 
S.G. Steele 

W.J. Strain 
Maurice F. Strong 
Poe bait 

Morley G. Taylor 
O.B. Thornton 
C.L. Walker 

J.L. Walker 


Westmount 


*Deceased 


Charles E. Reckitt 


aries 


R.H. Hoppe Colin W. Webster 
R.A, Irwin George C. Wallace 
EXECUTIVE 
BRANCHES CHAIRMEN SECRETARIES 
Downtown R.H. Hoppe V. Hryhorchuk 
International Alex Kabbash G. Gray 
Lachine-Dorval T.M. Lawrence R. Skaling 
Lakeshore S.G. Steele R. Bannerman 
Northmount W.J. Strain R. Rouse 
Notre Dame de Grace R.E. MacKay J.M. Singleton 
Verdun- LaSalle R. Bailey R.B. McFarlane 


R. McKelvie 


METROPOLITAN OFFICES 
1441 DRUMMOND STREET 


Downtown Branch 
1441 Drummond Street 
Montreal 25, Quebec 


International Branch 
5550 Park Avenue 
Montreal 8, Quebec 


Lachine-Dorval Branch 
3955 Provost Street 
Lachine, Quebec 


Lakeshore Branch 
170 St. Louis Avenue 
Pointe Claire, Quebec 


YOUNG M 


THE 
EN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION 
OF 


MONTREAL 


Northmount Branch 
1455 Rochon Street 
Montreal 9, Quebec 


Notre Dame de Grace Branch 
4335 Hampton Avenue 
Montreal 28, Quebec 


Verdun-LaSalle Branch 
7105 LaSalle Boulevard 
Verdun 19, Quebec 


Westmount Branch 


4585 Sherbrooke Street, West 


Westmount 6, Quebec 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY 


1435 DRUMMOND STREET 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS SCHOOLS 


1435 DRUMMOND STREET 


Evening High School 


Business School 


School of Art 
School of Retailing 


Elementary School 


CAMPS 


Kamp Kanawana 
St. Sauveur, Quebec 


Voyageurs de la Verendrye 
La Verendrye Park, Quebec 


Camp Otoreke 


St. Adolphe de Howard, Quebec 


a = 


YMCA Ski Lodge 
Camp Otoreke : 
St. Adolphe de Howard, Quebec 


