IE Tid eed oy FI 


. 


ANNUAL REPORT 


YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION 
of MONTREAL 


(851 — 1949 


“The Y.M.C.A. is a world-wide fellowship of men and boys united by a 
common loyalty to Jesus Christ for the purpose ‘of building Christian 
personality and a Christian society.’’ 


AGENDA 
THE NINETY-EIGHTH ANNUAL MEETING 
OF THE 
YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL, 
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 8TH, 1949, AT 5:00 P.M. 
MEMBERS' SOCIAL ROOM, Y.M.C.A., 1441 DRUMMOND STREET 
MONTREAL 


CHAIRMAN. .ececeecceceeeGHRALD W. BIRKS, 

PRESIDENT, Y..M.C.A., 
OF MONTREAL, 

Le DEVOTIONAL EXERCISES .cccccrccceseveccccscccccsessvesel hh VERY REVEREND 
KENNETH C. EVANS, 
DEAN OF MONTREAL. 

PAE CHAIRMAN'S BIVENE HGS ot ote: ¢ gate watana: elation pte cwialeverslbierein licke weteneleeneoee W. BIRKS 

36 ADOPTION OF MINUTES OF LAST ANNUAL MEETING; 


MOVED BY; 
SECONDED BY; 


4. REPORT OF THE HONORARY TREASURER. .csescccceccscescvceles DENTON LEWIS 
Se REPORT OF THE NOMINATING COMMITTEE... .sevccccccccvceteAs LESLIE 

6e REPORT OF THE GENERAL SECRETARY. .ccvccccccscccesccced els BEATON 

Te MOTION TO ADOPT REPORTS; 


MOVED BY; 
SECONDED BY: 


8. APPOINTMENT OF AUDITORS: 


MOVED BY; 
SECONDED BY: 


96 ANNOUNCEMENT: BRIEF MEETING OF METROPOLITAN BOARD AND CORPORATION OF 
SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS COLLEGE AT CLOSE OF THIS ANNUAL MEETING 


10. OTHER BUSINESS 


ll. ADJOURNMENT 


ANNUAL REPORT 1948-9 


INDEX 
ITEM PAGE NO. 
I. INTRODUCTION 1 
ui, OCCUPATION OF THE FIELD 2 
itt, PROGRAMME 3 
Iv. PERSONAL SERVICES 13 
v. OUR CHRISTIAN EMPHASIS 13 
VI. MEMBERSHIP 15 
VII. COMMUNITY-WIDE CO-OPERATION 16 
VIII. FINANCE & PROPERTY 16 
IX. PERSONNEL 17 
x NATIONAL COUNCIL 19 
ie WORLD SERVICE 20 
XII. WORLD'S ALLIANCE 21 
XIII. OBITUARIES 22 
XIV. APPRECIATION 22 
STATISTICAL RECORD - AUDITORS! REPORT 
STATEMENT OF INCOME - STATEMENT OF EXPENDITURES 


BALANCE SHEET ~ REPORT OF NOMINATING COMMITTEE 


I. 


THE NINETY-EIGHTH ANNUAL REFORT 
OF THE 
YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 
FOR THE YEAR ENDING MARCH 31ST, 1949 


INTRODUCTION 


The 98th Annual Report of the Young Men's Christian 
Association of Montreal is submitted herewith by your Board of 
Directors as prescribed by the Constitution. 

This review will deal with matters of general interest 
affecting the Montreal Association as a whole, since detailed 
reports of the activities at the various branches have already 
been approved at their respective annual meetings and form a part 
of their own records. 

In World History, the year has been marked by the 
signing of the North Atlantic Pact, the Declaration of Human 
Rights proclaimed by the United Nations, the successful operation 
of the Marshall Plan, the extraordinary 'Air-Lift' to Berlin, 
maintained by the three Western Powers, and the remarkable gains 
by the Communists in the Civil War in China. 

In Canada, the year was one in which employment was 
maintained at a high level and wages were still at their peak. 
Inflation continued at a slow, though at times faltering, pace. 

The reduction in Canada's foreign trade was a matter of great 
concern to the Nation. The lack of dollar purchasing power abroad 
was still one of the major problems in re-establishing international 
trade and stabilizing the economy of many nations throughout the 
world. 

Among the outstanding features of the year in our own 
work have been the expansion of activities among new immigrants 
served by our International Branch; the re-organization of our work 
in the eastend of Montreal resulting in the formation of three 
individual branches, Rosemount, Terminal Park and Montreal East; 
and the launching of a thorough-going survey of Greater Montreal 
looking to the formulation of a policy of expansion in keeping with 
the needs of youth in this great cosmopolitan and metropolitan city, 
On the whole, it has been a good year of solid achievement. 


If. 


OCCUPATION OF THE FIELD 


The Montreal Association has shown a steady growth in 
recent years and its work has been extended into many newer sections 
of the metropolis. In addition to the branch buildings which we own 
and operate, extensive use is made of rented quarters and facilities 
supplied through the co-operation of the Protestant School Board. 
During the past year we have operated in fifty different centres - 
'Y' buildings and camp properties, rented quarters such as the former 
Spanish-Portuguese Synagogue and Church Halls and schools, This 
policy has made possible a decentralized programme, adanted to the 
needs and resources of each particular community, and in addition, 
managed and conducted by local volunteer leaders and committees. 

The following outline indicates the degree to which we are serving 
Greater Montreal: 
FIVE BUILDINGS OWNED BY THE ASSOCIATION 


Notre Dame de Grace - on Hampton Avenue serving Notre Dame de 


Branch Grace, Montreal West and Hampstead. 
Southwestern Branch = on Gordon Avenue, serving Verdun, Crawford 
(Verdun) Park, Ville Emard and Cote St. Paul. Extension 


work is conducted in Connaught School in Cote 
St. Paul for boys of that district, and in 
Ville LaSalle for teen-age boys and girls. 

Westmount Branch - on Sherbrooke Street West, serving Westmount, 
Eastern Notre Dame de Grace. Extension work 
is conducted in St. Henry using the St. Henry 
Baptist and St. Simon's Churches and Lewis 
Evans School. 

North Branch - on Park Avenue, at St. Viateur Street, serving 
the northend, Outremont, Park Extension and 
Town of Mount Royal. Extension work is 
conducted in the Peace Centennial School serv- 
ing the Jean Talon district. 

Central Branch - on Drummond Street, serving the Central area of 
the city but drawing participants also from all 
parts of Greater Montreal, including the South 
Shore and Lakeshore districts. 


SIX BRANCHES USING RENTED QUARTERS OR OTFER COMMUNITY FACILITIES 


International Branch - on St. Catherine Street East, serving young 
people in the East Central district and 
especially New Canadians living in all parts 
of the city. Its educational programme is 
conducted in Alexandra School, and extension 
work for boys in Aberdeen School, Strathearn 
and Montreal High Schools. 


36 
II. OCCUPATION OF THE FIELD (cont'd) 


Lachine Branch - depending entirely on the use of school 
buildings, city parks, beaches, etc., serving 
Lachine, Ville St. Pierre and Dorval, 
Point St. Charles the 'Y' centre is located in Lorne School, with 
Branch secretary's office, the regular use of social, 
craft, games and two exercise rooms, gymnasium 
and auditorium as needed, 
the John Jenkins School building, not now in use 
for school purposes, is rented by the Association 
and provides space for a varied programme. 
Rosemount Branch - the 'Yt is located in space made available in 
Rosemount School, with secretary's office, large 
social and game room and use of gymnasium on 
schedule. The playground is used all summer. 
Extension work is conducted in Cartierville 
Protestant School, for boys of that district. 
activities are carried on in the Protestant 
School building and the basement of the Montreal 
East Community Church, 


Terminal Park Branch 


Montreal East Branch 


PROJECTS WHICH SERVE PERSONS IN ALL PARTS OF GREATER MONTREAL 


Sir George Williams - using Drummond Street building, Stanley Street 


College Annex, Drummond Street Annex, and Colley Hall 
of the Salvation Army Citadel, 
Camp Otoreke - at Lake St, Joseph, near Ste. Agathe, for young 
people. 
Kamp Kanawane - near St. Sauveur in the Laurentians, for boys. 
Camp Perrot ~- on Ile Perrot, used part of the season for boys 


and part for girls. 
at Christieville, a lodge owned by the Association, 
used by young people of all the branches, 


Otoreke Ski Club 


III. PROGRAMME 


PURPOSE AND FELLOWSHIP GROUPS: The Y.M.C.A. began in 1844 as a 
small fellowship group, a group of young men with common interests and 
needs in religion, leisure time activities and employment. The Association 
has always recognized the value of the small club as a means by which 
young people may learn a way of life. The basic unit of Christian character 
education is the cohesive, or natural, friendship group in which young 
people find their closest friends. Through these small clubs, the Y.M.C.A. 
provides opportunities for actual training and experience in democratic 
living. The principle of self-government has always been basic in our 
‘work and clubs, councils and committees assume that degree of autonomy 
which the age and experience of their members permit, 


Ill. 


4. 


PROGRAMME (cont'd) 


School Clubs: During the past year, eighteen 'Y! - 
sponsored clubs were active in the Schools of Greater Montreal 
including Gra-Y Clubs in elementary schools, and senior and junior 
Hi-Y Clubs in St, Laurent, Strathcona, Commercial, Westhill, Montreal 
West, Westmount, Lachine and Verdun High Schools. These clubs 
through their purpose and programme and their platform of Clean 
Sports, Clean Speech and Clean Living, offer boys and girls unlimited 
opportunity to focus attention on high Christian standards in school 
and community life. A Fall Officer's Training Conference sponsored 
by the Grand Chapter of Boys' Hi-Y Clubs was held at Camp Perrot, 
as a preliminary to the year's programme in club work. 133 delegates 
from the Boys' Clubs attended a three-day Regional Conference for 
Eastern Ontario and Quebec, held at the Notre Dame de Grace Branch, 
and the Grand Chapter of Girls' Hi-Y Clubs, sponsored a Rally of 
members of six clubs of Greater Montreal. 

The Foremen's Club of Montreal, affiliated with Central 
Branch, enrolled 415 members last year, representing over 65 Montreal 
firms. This club carried out an educational programme of high quality 
throughout the year, including service projects and the sponsoring of 
& new Junior Club, with membership of 100, 

Other Fellowship Clubs included the Phalanx Fraternity, 
Yeoman's Club, Eaton's Business Men's Club of Central Branch, Fireside 
Clubs of Westmount and Central Brenches, Business Boys and Girls' Clubs 
of Southwestern, Point St. Charles and Westmount Branches. 

A total of 107 young people's clubs, where interests 
centred in friendship, self-development and service, were active 
throughout the past year. 


INFORMAL EDUCATION: Informal Adult Education has offered construct- 
ive use of leisure time in clubs and groups meeting in 'Y' buildings, in 
Churches, schools and homes throughout the city. Sponsored by a Young 
Adult Programme Council, through branch and city-wide planning conferences 
this phase of our work has grown till it parallels our health education 
programme in importance in most of our eleven branches. Unit series 
and interest groups for young adults in wide and varied fields compose 
a large part of our programme, using the media of lectures, panels, 
discussions, forums, moving pictures and radio, 

So-Ed Clubs: A combination of social and educational 
programmes for young adults were conducted in Southwestern, Central and 
Notre Dame de Grace branches last year. The seven-week series at Notre 
Dame de Grace Branch, designed to provide opportunity for the enrichment 
of life and personality, included a choice of lectures on "Marriage in 
our Modern World', 'Science in step with the Times! and 'Self Development', 

Marriage and Family Education: During the month of 
March, a four-day visit of Dr. Evelyn M. Duvall, Executive Secretary of 
the National Council of Family Relations, Chicago, was Sponsored by our 
Association, Dr, Duvall spoke to more than 1,000 persons, over half of 


III. 


Se 


PROGRAMME (cont'd) . 


whom she addressed two or three times. Lectures and discussion 
periods were conducted for Sir George Williams College students, 
for city-wide gatherings of young people from all branches, for 
parents of teen-agers, social workers, the Y.M.C.A. staff and 
the general public interested in Family Education, 

The fourth annual series of lectures for 
parents of pre-school children was held at the N.D.G, Branch in 
co-operation with the Nursery School Committee. One hundred and 
ten parents registered for the six-week course. 

Citizenship and Public Affairs: Increased 
emphasis, during the past year was placed on training for citizenship 
and the study of public affairs, Citizens' Forums were held in which 
young people discussed the fundamentals of maintaining our way of 
life and meeting intelligently the war of ideologies that now surrounds 
US e 

In co-operation with the United Nations Assoc- 
iation we sponsored a "Forum on World Affairs", Seven 'Town Hall! 
meetings were held at which outstanding speakers discussed issues of 
interest and vital concern to thoughtful people. The attendance at 
these lectures and discussions was fairly well maintained throughout 
and the following topics were presented: 'The North Atlantic Security 
Pact', 'The Dilemma of China't, 'The Commonwealth', 'The Charter of 
Human Rights', 'The Problem of Germany', 'Canada and World Tradet, 
and 'Can the United Nations prevent War?', 

Probably the most colourful and urgently needed 
educational programme was carried on among immigrants at the Inter- 
national Branch, With a staff of experienced and specially trained 
instructors, over 1,000 newcomers to Canada attended the thirty 
English classes held in the evenings in the Association and at 
Alexandra School. Some classes continued throughout the summer.months, 
The teaching of English is a major emphasis of the five-year plan to 
prepare for final induction into full Canadian citizenship. Advanced 
English classes included the teaching of History, Geography, Government 
and other basic elements of citizenship. Many local organizations 
have sought our advice and counsel in their work with new Canadians, 

Libraries: Continued use has been made of 
our Library and Reading Room facilities. The Central Branch Library, 
the C,T, Williams Memorial Library of Southwestern Branch and the 
Reading Room of International Branch together had a book circulation 
of 13,783, and the Reading Room use totalled 47,780. Sir George 
Williams College Library use is recorded elsewhere. Maximum shelving 
capacity in these libraries has been reached with a wide selection 
of books of fiction, travel, history, biography, science, religion and 
the arts, The Southwestern Branch Library has increased its availa- 
bility to the community with nightly three-hour periods. Story hours 
for boys and girls have become a popular feature. 


IIl. 


PROGRAMME (cont'd) 


SOCIAL RECREATION: The social element continues to permeate 
the Y.M.C.A. recreational programme, Wholesome entertainment under 
trained leadership and supervision has been provided in all the 
branches. Games rooms in all of our buildings and in most branches 
using school facilities have provided for such games as ping-pong, 
checkers, chess, and at Central and Southwestern Branches billiards 
have been popular. A growing trend has been noted in the activities 
of former dance clubs to include a wider variety of interests through 
the promotion of ski-ing, splash parties, hiking, sleigh-riding, 
roller-skating, bus and weekend trips. 

Social Clubs fall into three natural age 
groups. For young men and women over 18 years of age, the Rosemount 
Tuesday Nite Club, the Central Saturday Night Club and the Southwestern 
Saturday Social Club were typical clubs which enjoyed an active season, 
Teen-age social clubs for senior boys and girls, 16-18 years of age, 
and junior clubs for 13-15 year members have functioned in almost all 
branches. These clubs have achieved greater efficiency in operation 
and have developed wider variety of programme through the functioning 
of Inter-Branch Teen-Age Council, A popular feature of many of these 
Teen Clubs has been instruction in Learn-to-Dance Classes, Prominent 
among last year's clubs were the Lachine Senior and Junior Teen Clubs, 
the Westmount, North and Montreal Rast Saturday Night Clubs, Rosemount 
16-20 Club, Southwestern Fri-Y Club and Ville LaSalle Teen Town, 
Central Teen-Centre, Notre Dame de Grace Hi-Teen and Double D (Dip and 
Dance) Clubs. 

Saturday entertainment for school children 
featuring moving pictures and Sing-songs were popular at Notre Dame de 
Grace, Central, Westmount and Lachine Branches, 

Among the community undertakings of the 
Association during the past year were the weekly Bonfire Programmes 
of the Point St. Charles and Notre Dame de Grace Branches, A total 
attendance of 51,218 was recorded at these popular entertainments, 


HOBBIES AND SPECIAL INTERESTS: The creative use of leisure 

time has a recognized place in the Association programme for both adults 
and younger folks. Boys and Girls' craft classes have Operated in all 
of our branches during the past year with greatest intensity in the 
Summer Vacation Clubs and camp programmes, Westmount and Southwestern 
Community Hobby Shows last year received over 2,800 entries of handiwork, 
collections, arts, household Science, literature, music and entertain- 
ment and pet stock, from boys and girls under 18 years of age. The ever 
increasing co-operation shown by local groups in these annual shows, 
and the crowds who viewed the handiwork exhibited, testify to the interest 
in and popularity of hobbies for children, 

The Adult Arts and Crafts Departments at 
Central, Westmount, North, Southwestern, Notre Dame de Grace and Montreal 


IIf. 


Ts 
PROGRAMME (cont'd) 


East Branches included instruction in leatherwork, woodwork, . 
photography, jewellery and metal work. At the International Branch 
an outstanding Craft Centre was established during the past year, 
and several looms were installed, Exhibitions of weaving and knit- 
ting of high quality have been given at the Branch and at the 
Canadian Handicrafts Guild on three occasions, The Fashion Show 
staged by the Terminal Park Women's Group indicated the high quality 
of the work done in the dressmaking class during the season. Other 
special interest groups have included Public Speaking, Music 
Appreciation, Chess, Bridge, Photography,’ Dressmaking, Millinery, 
Homemaker's Club and Dramatics, 


HEALTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION: The Y.M.C.A. has become a 
physical fitness centre to thousands of Montrealers of all ages who 
take part in its many and varied activities. Some recognize the 
importance of systematic exercise through formal classes in achiev- 
ing a well-balanced life. Some prefer the zest of competitive sports, 
others come for the sheer enjoyment of taking part in well-organized 
recreation, 

Increased emphasis has been placed on leadership 
training in the Physical Department. Leaders Corps of Senior, 
Intermediate or Junior levels for young men and boys have been active 
in Central, Notre Deme de Grace, Southwestern, North and Point St. 
Charles Branches, The contribution of these leaders'. groups was 
evident in the Annual Gymnasium Displays held by each of these branches. 

Basketball, continued to hold a prominent place 
in the programme of nine of our branches. In House Leagues, Inter-Y 
Leagues, Church and City Leagues, thousands of boys and young men 
have participated in this popular sport. Three Branches, Southwestern, 
Notre Dame de Grace and International, also entered young women's 
teams in the newly organized Women's Open Basketball League. 

Swimming, both in organized classes and as a 
popular recreation, held a top place in the Association physical 
programme, with 141,648 aggregate attendance in five branch pools, The 
Progressive Swimming Meets for boys and girls, initiated by North Branch 
two years ago, have been a strong factor in raising the proficiency 
of our younger members, supplementing the efforts of branch Swimming 
Clubs. Monthly meets were held at North, Westmount, Notre Dame de Grace, 
Southwestern and Central pools, The use of our 'Y! pools for swimming 
instruction of both elementary and high school classes in school time 
has increased considerably. 

Gymnastics, considered a basic part of a balanced 
physical education programme, included calisthenics, apparatus work and 
tumbling. Classes for men and boys were held in six of our branches, 
and for women and girls at Southwestern, Notre Dame de Grace and North 
Branches, 


Be 
TII. PROGRAMME (cont'd) 


Badminton Clubs were active in six branches, and 
Tennis Clubs at Notre Dame de Grace and Southwestern Branches 
attracted capacity registrations. Emphasis in beginners! instruction 
and monthly tournaments and socials have contributed to the great 
popularity of these two activities for young people. 

Softball and Baseball were promoted through Inter-Y 
Leagues in which Central, Lachine, International, Westmount, Rosemount 
and Point St. Charles were prominent. 

Hockey teams were organized at Central, Westmount, 
Rosemount, Southwestern and Notre Dame de Grace Branches. An attend- 
ance of 7,326 adults and children was reported at the Notre Dame de 
Grace Skating Rinks. Over 500 boys' hockey permits were issued from 
the Southwestern Branch, headquarters for teams playing in the Verdun 
Hockey League. 

Weight-Lifting Clubs operated at North Branch, 
Southwestern, Notre Dame de Grace and Central Branches. Over 600 
beginners joined the Central Club last year, and from the Southwestern 
Club two contestants, one of whom is a Dominion champion, took part 
in the Olympic Games in England. A member of the Central Branch was 
second in the U.S.A. Championships. 

Boxing Clubs for boys and young men were active at 
Central, Westmount, North, Southwestern, Montreal East and Terminal 
Park Branches. 

Rugby, Soccer, Judo, Fencing, Bowling, Track and 
Field, Volleyball and Wrestling were all included in the Association 
physical programme, All branches have provided the best available 
coaching, have held 'clinics' and used other methods of improving the 
skill of participants. ; 


CAMPING AND OUTDOOR ACTIVITIES: 

Camp Otoreke; The Camp for Young Adults at Lake 
St. Joseph conducted its 55th season. As might be expected, of a 
well-established camp, certain features of its programme planned by 
the young people's committee responsible for the camp operation have 
become traditional and are eagerly anticipated each year. During the 
past season, 1,018 campers were registered (466 men, 484 women and 34 
married couples) for a total of 10,323 camper days. The peak attend- 
ance was reached during the last week in July with 170 campers. Young 
people attended from places as far distant as New York and Rochester, 
and others came from points in Ontario. 

The installation of electricity prior to the 
camping season last year while adding to the comfort and safety of 
campers, enlarged the scope of indoor programme in permitting the 
extensive use of motion pictures on topics of special interest. 

Canoe tripping has become an important and popular 
activity at Otoreke. Many campers now plan their holiday to include one 
week in camp and one week on a canoe trip. During the past summer, 
seven parties of fifteen to twenty-five persons Spent six days each in 
the area west of Lake Labelle. 


Iii. 


96 


PROGRAMME (cont'd) 


During July and August, morning and afternoon craft 
classes were held, with the result that 350 articles were made. Many 
campers took swimming and paddling instruction, Tennis, volleyball, 
picnics, camp fires, dramatics and regattas are all popular activities. 

Sunday morning services on Chapel Island continued 
to hold a central place in the camp programme. 

Metropolitan and Branch Committees made use of 
Otoreke facilities to the utmost for weekend planning conferences during 
Spring and Fall months, 

Kamp Kanawana; The summer of 1948 was the 55th year 
in the history of Y.M.C.A, camping for boys 8-17 years of age. Kanawana, 
covering an area of 600 acres, is located in the north woods near St. 
Sauveur. Leaders and counsellors last year received intensive pre= 
camp training, both in the city and at camp, to enable them to assist 
each individual boy to have a happy and worthwhile camping holiday. A 
total of 328 boys attended camp, for an average stay of four weeks each, 
making an aggregate of 1,327 camper weeks. 

Canoe trips for boys who had passed the required 
swimming end paddling tests reached 'four-star' proportions in Kanawana 
programme. In addition to trips up and down the Ottawa River, senior 
campers explored the bush country of Lake Nominingue. 241 boys also 
went on overnight hikes. 

Camp daily programme offered a wide range of interest 
- archery, leather and wood work, clay modelling, nature study, dis- 
section and numerous camp projects. The waterfront, as ever, held the 
greatest interest with rowing, paddling and sailing instruction, 
Swimming tests, from beginners to advanced, were passed by 248 boys, 
end 697 tests were passed in various individual skills. Parents' visits 
totalled 585 throughout the season. 

Camp Perrot: Our near-the-city camp for boys and 
girls, is situated on the south shore of Ile Perrot, on the bank of 
the St. Lawrence River. The camp site covers an area of 45 acres 
including a stretch of sandy shore-line. During the season of 1948, 
the fifth operation of the Perrot Camp, 251 campers registered, which 
included 162 boys during a period of six weeks, and 89 girls for a two- 
week period. 171 swimming tests were passed and 153 boys went on over- 
night hikes, or all-day canoe trips. 

Several important additions to the camp facilities 
were available last season, The spacious new dining hall, with its 
large open fireplace, the fully-equipped John W. Ross Memorial Hospital 
both added considerably to the health and happiness of the campers. The 
transformation of 'The Old Barn’ into a recreation hall, including a 
stage and craft shop, was achieved as a result of the volunteer labour 
and donations of the Foremen's Club and provided excellent facilities 
for rainy weather programme. 

Swimming and boating, hikes, camp and woodcraft, 
camp fires and Sunday morning services in a beautiful natural Chapel 
were all among the programme features. 


Pils 


10. 


PROGRAMME (cont'd) 


The location of Perrot has made the camp invaluable 
because of its easy access, not only during the camping season, but 
also for the use of many groups in our 'Y' branches for picnics, hikes 
and weekend conferences in Spring and Fall. Last season 1,040 attend- 
ances were registered by these special outing groups from the city. 

Otoreke Ski Lodge: The location of the Ski Lodge 
at Christieville, operated for the past four years, has proven satis- 
factory in terms of accessibility and good skiing facilities, During 
the past season, 150 young people in the age group 18-25 held Ski Club 
memberships. Altogether, 350 persons were guests at the lodge during 
the ski season. Each weekend, eight instruction classes were held, 
four for beginners and four for advanced skiers. A Lodge Committee 
of young people planned and carried out weekly Saturday night pro- 
grammes. Ten of the Club members became members of the Laurentian 
Zone Ski Patrol, doing duty on the Christieville hills, For devotion 
to duty, skill in handling cases and patrol organization, they were 
awarded the Laurentian Zone Ski Patrol Cup for the 1948-49 season, 

A number of groups from the Montreal branches made the lodge their 
headquarters for one-day outings during the season. 

City Camps and Vacation Clubs: Each of the 'Y' 
Branches conducted special programmes for our stay-at-home boy and 
girl members. These Vacation Clubs or City Day Camps were planned 
to provide as many as possible of the experiences associated with 
camping and a maximum of outdoor activities. Gymnasia, Craft and Club 
rooms were deserted during much of the hot summer months as boys and 
girls turned to playfields, all-day picnics, bicycle trips and overnight 
hikes. Bus loads of children invaded beaches and parks in the neigh- 
bourhood of Greater Montreal. Swimming pool facilities were used to 
capacity with daily children's swims. Central Branch Vacation Club 
once again located at St. Helen's Island, and used Fletcher's Field and 
the Longue Pointe Ordnance Depot swimming pool on occasion, and city 
playground space. Inter-branch Track and Field events and the city-wide 
Swimming Meet were enjoyed by all clubs. In all, 1,698 boys and girls 
participated in these organized summer prcgrammes,. 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS COLLEGE AND SCHOOLS; 

The work of Sir George Williams College and Schools 
continued to make healthy progress. Although its programme could not 
be expanded in scope because of the limitation of facilities, it has 
been strengthened at many points, and the pressure for enlarged 
accommodation continues. 

Particularly in the Evening Division of its 
Faculties of Arts, Science and Commerce, the College is assuming an 
expending role in the educational life of Montreal, It is demonstrating 
in a dramatic way the capacity of the Young Men's Christian Association 


ite 


ial 
PROGRAMME (cont'd) 


to promote through formal education, the first stated purpose of the 
founders of the Association one hundred and five years ago, "the 
spiritual and mental development of young men in the trades", 

The granting of the new Provincial Charter, a 
year ago, whereby the College was designated "a university within 
the Province of Quebec", has greatly enhanced its standing, and made 
possible some important developments in academic recognition which 
had previously not been achieved. It is confidently to be hoped that 
this process will continue, and that the quality of the work of the 
College will enable it to maintain this new position, not only among 
other institutions of higher education, but in business end industry, 
and in the community at large, in which the majority of its graduates 
must find a place. 

Enrollment during the academic year 1948-49 
reached a new high point in the regular units of the College and 
Schools, a total of 5,190 students compared with 4,860 the previous 
year. Of these 2,742 were in the Faculties of Arts, Science and 
Commerce, compared with 2,418 last year. The complete registration 
statistics for the winter term 1948-49 are as follows: 


Day Evening Total 

1. College (Faculties of Arts, 
Science & Commerce) 765 197% 2,742 
2 High School ~ 1,009 1,009 
3e Elementary School - 103 103 
4. Business School 241 766 1,007 
5. Art School 100 229 329 
Total, Winter Term 1,106 4,084 5,190 
,——_—_— a 7 


The Summer Term of 1948 had about the same enrollment as the previous 
year, as follows; 


1. College (Faculties of Arts, Science & Commerce, 


Evening - 522 

2 High School - - Evening - 236 
5. Business School - - Day & Evening - 223 
Total, Summer Term- - - 981 


The graduation of 147 students in June, 1948, 
swelled to 646 the largest number of Bachelor's degrees granted by 
the College since the inception of its four-year programme of studies. 
It is anticipated that about 190 persons will be graduated at this 
year's Convocation. 


Til. 


LZ 


PROGRAMME (cont'd) 


The growth of the College and Schools over the past 
twenty-five years is illustrated by the following record of enrollment: 
Total 


College College College Schools Schools Schools College & 
Day Evening Total Day Evening Total Schools 


1925-6 in - - - - 702 702 

1929-30 - 30 30 36 TO 1,206 1,236 
1932-33 76 100 176 136 691 827 1, 003 
1936-37 135 238 373 153 789 942 1,238 
1940-41 214 624 838 419," 1 eee 1,660 2,498 
1944-45 $60 1,282 1, age 290 1,678 1,968 3,460 
1948-49 766° 1aeF |) B.949 $42) BL eer 2,448 5,190 


The staff of the College and Schools during the year 
consisted of 220 persons, of whom 63 were full-time employees, and 136 
were related directly to the Faculties of Arts, Science and Commerce. 

The College continued to take important part in the 
education of veterans, there being 184 enrolled in the Day Division under 
rehabilitation benefits from the Department of Veterans Affairs. About 
one-third of these will be graduated this year, however, and the numbers 
thus enrolled may be expected to decrease considerably in the next term. 
Since 1944, the provision of extra accommodation for student veterans 
has been a constant and pressing demand upon the College, and as the 
intensity of the rehabilitation programme relaxes, we take some pride 
in the record of service which has been achieved. The appreciation of 
the veterans themselves was demonstrated this year by the establishment 
of a War Memorial Scholarship, “for the son or daughter of a service 
man or woman who died during, or as a result of, World War II". An 
initial fund of $1,400 has been raised by the veterans in the College 
and will be augmented by them in coming years. 

The usual rich series of extra-curricular activities 
was carried on, in both day and evening divisions, with a more than 
ordinarily successful programme of athletics. More than fifty different 
organized groups were involved in these activities. 

The counselling and guidance programme continued to 
be an integral part of the College's service to students. The Student 
Counsellor and his two part-time assistants were consulted by hundreds 
of day and evening students regarding vocational and personal problems, 
and the Carcers Library and Reading Room provided a constant source of 
information, 

The academic year 1948-49 marked the seventy=fifth 
year of formal educational work in the Montreal Y.M.C.A, and the 
twentieth since the establishment of the Faculties of Arts, Science and 
Commerce, That it has an important and useful service to render to the 
youth of Montreal, cannot now be questioned. 


13. 


PERSONAL SERVICES 


RESIDENCES ; The total number of beds available in the Stanley 
Street Building was 560, and the total number of bed-nights for the year 
was 202,688, which was a 99% occupancy. In all, 9345 different men were 
in residence, an increase of 669 over the previous year. In the Central 
residence priority was given to newcomers to Canada and in no instance 
were we unable to provide them with accommodation, 

There were also 57 beds available in the North 
and Westmount Branch buildings, which were used for a total of 19,745 
bed-nights. 

Our help has been sought almost daily in 
securing outside accommodation for young men when we have been unable 
to accommodate them in our ow residences. Through the Rooms Registry 
Service in Central and Westmount Branches, hundreds of these young men 
have secured congenial living quarters. 


INTERVIEWS ; Personal counselling and guidance continue 
to be a primary function of the Association in its daily contacts with 
young people. There is constant need for someone to whom a young person 
can talk freely of his desires and purposes, his strengths, weaknesses 
and difficulties. Through these interviews with secretaries and leaders 
young people have been helped to a better understanding of themselves, 
and to discover how to make the best use of their resources, A wide 
variety of problems which continually confront young people in their 
growth towards emotional maturity have included home and Church 
relationships, making friends, use of leisure time, planning of education 
and vocation in relationship to one's ability, interests end needs. 
During the past year 29,626 such interviews were reported. 


EMPLOYMENT : In spite of the great expansion of Government 
employment services, the Y.M.C.A. continues to be of service to youth 
seeking counsel either in securing their first jobs, or in the effort 
to better their prospects or change the type of work in which they are 
engaged. During the year, the total number of placements made was 372 
which is an increase of 99 over the previous year. 


OUR CHRISTIAN EMPHASIS 


The Young Men's Christian Association is closely 
aligned in purpose with the Christian Church. Because of the inclusive 
nature of its constituency, it is enabled to be an outstanding influence 
for religious unity. The Y,M.C.A. touches life at so many vital points 
that it has a unique opportunity to provide practical training in 
Christian living and appreciation. Through encouragement of small group 
projects of service and action, it attempts to give members experience 
in making decisions and carrying responsibilities in accordance with 
Christian principles, 


V. 


14, 
OUR CHRISTIAN EMPHASIS (cont'd) 


The Triennial Conference of the Association of 
Secretaries held at Grand Rapids last May, undertook a detailed exan- 
ination and analysis of the 'post war' religious climate, and of the 
role of the secretary in relation to Christian Emphasis and Message. 
Since their findings might well be applied to the Association as a 
whole, their recommendations are quoted below: 

" It is the responsibility of the Association 
Secretary to-day: 

- To be sensitive to the moods and motives of young people; 

- To develop clear-cut convictions about the Christian outlook 
on life, as compared with other philosophies and movements, 
and to interpret where he stands as a Christian: 

- To be both educator and advocate of the Christian way of life; 

- To help young people and adults to find reality in religion; 

~ To maintain close relationships with the Protestant Churches 
of the community and at the same time seek to serve the 
needs of persons with other religious backgrounds: 

- To find effective ways of developing Christian insight and 
experience through all activities and relationships of 
the YM. CeAe : 

- To find ways of relating the ethical insights and religious 
convictions of Christianity to pressing social issues 
confronting the community, the nation and the world, 4 

During the past year members and staff of the 
Montreal Association have participated in various conferences where 
there has been concern for interpreting the Christian faith in terms of 
specific social and individual problems. These have included the 
Regional Hi-Y Conference at Notre Dame de Grace Branch, the Hi-Y 
Officers' Training Conference, the City-wide Young Adults Conference, 
and the Teen-Age Conference, attended by representatives from all 
branches; additional Branch Spring and Fall Planning Conferences and 
City-wide Staff Training Conferences. 

Certain activities of the Association during the 
year contribute more directly to the Association's stated purpose of 
building Christian persons and a Christian Society. Many of these were 
held as services in the Chapel in the Central building; Hi-Y and other 
club induction ceremonies, students! Chapel services, Sunday musicales, 
orgen recitals, special Christmas and Easter services. The annual Hi-Y 
Really presented a challenge to over 200 high school students. Through- 
out the year the beautiful Chapel has been open daily for private 
meditation and prayer, 

The West End Churchmen's Fellowship, sponsored 
by the Westmount Branch, conducted a third series of Lenten services 
for men, with the theme, "Come Ye After Me", 

The Montreal East Teen-Age Discussion Club held 
a series of lectures and discussions on the topic, "Religion for 


Teen-Agers", 


VI. 


Los 


MEMBERSHIP 


The total membership in the Association increased 
slightly during the year. For purposes of this Report, the figures used 
in the Annual Year Book, as of January lst, 1949, are designated. The 
total paid membership on that date was 15,823 as compared with 15,164 
a year ago, an increase of 659. It will be seen that this increase has 
occurred in six branches and that one branch, Rosemount, had not been 
organized a year ago as it formed part of the Eastern Communities Branch 
at that time. The large decrease in the members at North Branch is 
mostly due to the discontinuance of the Saturday Night Club at Peace 
Centennial School; 


1949 1948 1939 
Central Branch 4,976 4,845 2,929 
Sir George Williams College 5,915 5,938 1,404 
Southwestern Branch Les 1,185 998 
Notre Dame de Grace Branch 1,047 763 921 
North Brench 603 Loewe 852 
Westmount Branch 694 524 760 
International Branch 736 610 283 
Lachine Branch 247 248 122 
Eastern Communities 483 595 297 
Point St. Charles Branch 362 183 - 
Rosemount Branch 343 re rs 
16,534 16,114 6,566 
Less duplications jpg! 950 
Grand Total 15,823 UF ae 8,566 
A comparison of the membership breakdown with last year is shown as; 
Tom fom 
1949 1948 
By Sex: Male 1380 7443 
Female 26.8 ASA 
By Age Groupings: 14 years and under 14,0 13.3 
15 - 17 years - 15.5 15.6 
18,- 24 years ~ 57.9 56.8 
25 - 29 years - 2261 15.4 
30 years and over 10.5 18.9 


This comparison shows that in 1949, 89.5% of our total membership was 
under thirty years of age; as compared with 81.1% in 1948, The age 
group showing the greatest increase has been in the 25-29 year bracket 
with 6,7%, and the greatest decrease is found in the thirty year and 
over grouping, as 8.4%. 

These figures do not include summer, skating, tennis, 
camp and other seasonal and short-term members, numbering about 4,000 
in the year, nor do they include many hundreds reached through our com- 
munity work who pay no membership fee at all. An estimate of the total 
number of members and other participants in our activities during the 
past year would be over 35,000 persons. 


VII. 


VIII, 


16. 


COMMUNITY-WIDE CO-OPERATION 


Parent's nights, family banquets, demonstrations 
of our work, parent's discussion groups, personal interviews with 
parents, meetings in the homes, formation of parent's committees and 
sponsoring groups have all contributed towards a close relationship 
with the home. 

The Protestant School Authorities have been most 
generous in making school facilities available for community and branch 
programmes, particularly in districts where we do not own buildings. 

On our part, we have endeavoured to co-operate with home and school 
associations, by supplementing school programmes through school=centred 
clubs, by organizing sports and leagues, end by the increased use of our 
own building facilities in programmes for school children such as swim- 
ming instruction. 

Our relations with the Churches have been most cordial. 
On many occasions we have rendered assistance to them through the use of 
our building facilities for young people's socials, Sunday School swims 
and the use of our camp property for picnics. We have co-operated in 
organizing young people's community social events and entertainments. 
Last Fall, we shared with the Protestant Churches of Greater Montreal 
in planning and carrying out an Interdenominational Missionary 
"Programme of Advance", which brought outstanding world missionaries 
to this city. 

Other bodies with which we have had helpful co- 
operative relationships include the many service clubs of Greater 
Montreal, the Montreal Council of Social Agencies, of which our Associa- 
tion is a corporate member, the Religious Education Council, the Canadian 
Camping Association, the Youth Hostel Association, the Y.M.H.A. and the 
Quebec Federation of Youth Organizations. In January of this year our 
sister organization, the Y.W.C.A., conducted a New Building Campaign for 
$1,500,000. Members of our Metropolitan Board and staff made a 
significant contribution to this important effort. Facilities in our 
branch buildings were granted to 323 organizations during the year, 1633 
meetings were held, attended by an estimated 61,710 persons, 


FINANCE AND PROPERTY 


The Annual Financial Campaign having an objective of 
$161,000.00, was held in November with a final report of $165,574.00. 
Gifts were received from over 8,700 individuals and corporations, the 
largest number ever recorded in a maintenance appeal and over 1,000 more 
gifts than the previous year, 

The Campaign was under the able leadership of 
Mr. TH. Atkinson, General Chairman, and Mr. D.W. Stewart, Chairman of 
Special Names. A strong teams organization with experienced Division 
Chairmen, including a new Division in Rosemount, combined with the 


VIII. 


17. 


FINANCE AND PROPERTY (cont'd) 


Special Names Committee to make a total working force of over 1,000 
persons. The opening dinner was particularly effective with John 
Fisher of the C.B.C. as the speaker and the publicity programme was 
an indispensable factor in the success of the campaign, 

Association buildings and equipment have been 
subjected to continuous heavy usage. In addition to routine decorating 
and repairs the following major items of maintenance were completed. 
Drummond-Stanley Building - outside painting Stenley Street Wing, 
complete repainting Drummond Street Wing, replacement several panel 
boxes, and extensive boiler repairs. Westmount Branch - redecorating 
locker room, swimming pool, gymnasium ceiling, extensive repairs to 
shower room, and replacement of lobby furniture. North Branch - 
replacement lobby and club room furniture and complete repointing exterior 
of building, Southwestern Branch - furniture replacements, and 
replacement motor in automatic stoker. Notre Dame de Grace Branch - 
substantial redecorating, Point St. Charles Branch - installation 
of showers and hot water tank in Lorne School. 

Major developments were undertaken at Camp 
Perrot involving the construction of a new dining hall and kitchen with 
accommodation for 160 persons, and a camp hospital. The completion of 
the two units marked another step forward in the progressive plan to 
develop the camp facilities from year to year. The total cost of the 
two buildings amounted to $26,000.00, Through the co-operation of 
Mr. J. Ernest Millen and family, funds were made available for the 
hospital and equipment complete as a memorial to the late Dr, John W. 
Ross. This generous action of the donors in providing a much needed unit 
in the development of the camp property will help materially in this 
important aspect of the Association's service to youth, 

During the year, a legacy of $500.00 was 
received from the Estate of the late F.W. Sharpe, which sum has been 
added to the Endowment Funds of the Association, 


PERS ONNEL 


VOLUNTEER SERVICE: The Association recognizes the vital ally of 
recruiting, training and retaining of the highest quality of men and 
women, both lay and professional, to give leadership to the many phases 
of our work, Volunteer service on the part of hundreds of men and women, 
older boys and girls of Greater Montreal alone has made possible the 
wide variety and volume of the Association's programme during the past 
year, 

Such service has included membership on boards, 
committees and councils, leadership of clubs and groups, instruction of 
Classes, coaching of teams and athletics, giving lectures and addresses, 


IX. 


Le 
PERSONNEL (cont'd) 


leading discussions, giving personal counsel, membership on leaders 
corps, camp counselling, service on ladies’ auxiliaries, women's 
committees and mothers! clubs. 

In addition to 268 volunteer club and 
group leaders, approximately 2,365 men and women have served on com- 
mittees and boards which have had an aggregate attendance of 18,717. All 
these gave counsel, direction and loyal service in the interests of the 
youth of Greater Montreal through the Y.M.C.A. 


SECRETARIAL STAFF; A number of major changes took place in the 
Secretarial Staff during the past year: 

Miss JOAN BAILLIE was appointed Women's Work 
Secretary of Southwestern Branch, succeeding Miss Joan Christie who 
resigned, 

JOSEPH T. BARRATT, Secretary of Rosemount 
District of Eastern Communities Branch, was appointed Executive Secretary 
of the newly organized Rosemount Branch. 

JOHN W. BROWN was appointed Young Adult 
Secretary, North Branch. 

Je GORDON CLARKE became Young Adult Secretary 
of Westmount Branch to succeed George Barker, who resigned. 

Miss FLORENCE B. GREENE, Director of Women 
& Girls' Work, Southwestern Branch, became Metropolitan Secretary for 
Public Relations and Secretary for Women & Girls' Work, 

Miss GRETA LETT was appointed Women & Girls! 
Work Secretary of Notre Dame de Grace Branch, 

G. ALBERT LIFE joined the staff of Central 
Branch as Physical Director to succeed J.J. Sims who resigned. 

ROY D. LOCKE, Executive Secretary of Eastern 
Communities was appointed Metropolitan Boys! Work Secretary. 

ARTHUR R.W. JORDAN, Community Secretary of 
Eastern Communities was appointed Executive Secretary of newly organized 
Terminal Park and Montreal East Branches, 

Miss ELEANOR McFADYEN was appointed Girls! 
Work Secretary of Southwestern Branch. 

On March 31st, W.H. WHITE, after thirty-three 
years of service with the Canadian Y.M.C.A., retired as Executive Secretary 
of Central Branch, He was succeeded by W.H. SPEARMAN, formerly Executive 
Secretary of Westmount Branch. Mr. Spearman's successor was JAMES CARNIE, 
formerly Programme Secretary of Central Branch, 

We have continued our policy, inaugurated at 
the close of World War I, of providing training fellowships to students 
at Sir George Williams College and McGill University who intend to enter 
the Association Secretaryship as a career. 


IX. 


Xe 


19, 


PERSONNEL (cont'd) 


The students were assigned for practical training as follows: 
International Branch - Jack S. Myles and W. Reginald Smith 


Point St. Charles - Clair Buckley 
Lachine Branch - H. Gordon McFarlane 
Notre Dame de Grace - Albert E, Humphreys: Donald M. Duncan; 


Keith A, Latter: D. Ross Bannerman: 
Mrs. C.eA. Junke. 


Southwestern Branch - John L. Evans and Alan D. McCann 
Westmount Branch - Clayton H. Cameron and Cecil Woods 
North Branch - William H. Spearman 

Central Branch - John Ferguson: W. Herbert Jackson; 


Murray E. Faulkner: Edwin J. Dance. 
Sir George Williams 
College - Clifford A. Junke and John Waldie. 


J. Gordon Clarke and Arthur R.W. Jordan were 
graduated in 1948 from Sir George Williams College. 

Five members of the Montreal staff attended 
the Triennial Conference of the Association of Secretaries of North 
America, held in Grand Rapids May 23-28. All members of the staff 
participated in city-wide study groups held during the winter and spring 
months, based on commissions set up preparatory to the conference. 

Seven members also attended the Staff Training 
School held at Lake Couchiching in August. One Secretary took post 
graduate work at Harvard University during the summer, one attended the 
Membership Secretarial Institute at Silver Bay, New York, and one attended 
the Institute on World Affairs held in New York City. 


NATIONAL COUNCIL 


The Montreal Association, as a constituent 
member of the National Council of the Y.M.C.A.s of Canada, has a direct 
share in its work, including a contribution of $12,000. in support of its 
services, 

The Council has taken responsibility for holding 
youth conferences and staff meetings, the Canadian Institute of Public 
Affairs and the National Hi-Y Assembly at Lake Couchiching. In addition, 
four successful Regional Conferences were held in Western Canada, Ontario 
and the Maritimes, Technical services have also been rendered to local 
Associations in many aspects of their work, 

The Annual Meeting of the: Council, held in 
Windsor, Ontario, in February, was most interesting and inspiring. It 
concerned itself chiefly with the consideration of Commission Reports 
dealing with the subjects of Christian Emphasis, Membership Affiliations 
and Categories, and the Y.M.C.A. and Public Recreation, It was also 


XI. 


20. 


NATIONAL COUNCIL (cont'd) 


decided to proceed with the development of plans for the observance in 
1951 of the Centennial of the North American Y.M.C.A. These plans involve 
raising a fund of $40,000 to provide funds for (a) a Canadien Y.M.C.A. 
History, (b) extension work into new territories and (c) promotion 
literature and national observance, 

The Montreal Association has agreed to provide one 
quarter of the fund with a maximum payment of $10,000.00 to be paid over 
a period of three years, 


WORLD SERVICE 


The North American Associations have just celebrated 
the jubilee of their international service to the youth of the world. The 
Montreal Association has had a continuous relation to this work since David 
McConaughy proceeded to India and Jonathan Swift to Japan in the year 1889, 
Throughout these sixty years, representatives of the Association have been 
engaged in the task of establishing indigenous Y.M.C.A.s in many countries 
of the World, They have also made an outstanding contribution to the 
development of men with character and leadership ability in the nations of 
the world, and are still actively engaged in the task of helping to lay 
the basic foundations for peace, 

Mr. Sadiq Dyal Chand, Associate Secretary of the 
Y.M.C.A. in Lahore, Pakistan, completed his twelve-month fellowship period 
of study and practical work in the Montreal Association and left in 
September for points in the United States for three months of further study 
before departing for his own country in December, He was much in demand 
aS & Speaker, and gave many excellent statements about the situation in 
India with particular emphasis on the relatively strong position achieved 
there by the Christian minority in the population. Mr, Pyun Syung-0k, 
General Secretary of the National Council of Y.M.C.A.s of Korea, arrived 
in March to spend a period of eight weeks in Montreal, Mr. Pyun is in 
North America for a six months! visit studying Y.M.C.A. techniques after 
a wartime experience which included two years in a Japanese concentration 
Camp. 

Five prominent Association leaders visited Montreal 
in the course of the year to assist in the World Service programme and 
delivered addresses of an educational and inspirational character, John 
He Dunderdale, a Canadian in charge of staff training of the Council of 
Y.M.sC.Ass of India, Pakistan, Burma & Ceylon, was here as the year opened. 
He was followed by Orman W, Moulton, General Secretary of the Y.M,.C.A. 
in Salonika, Greece, in June; Dr. Y.C. Tu, General Secretary of the 
National Committee of Y.M.C.Acs of China, in October; A.L, Miller, General 
Secretary of the Y.M.C.A. in Jerusalem, in January; and C.F, Basil Tippet, 
prominent Toronto business man and layman who had just completed a 
world tour of fourteen countries, in March, The contributions of 
these speakers have been invaluable in keeping freshly before us 


XI. 


XII. 


21. 
WORLD SERVICE (cont'd) 


membership and friends the extent and influence of the international 

service of the Association. In addition, members of the staff spent 

an afternoon last summer, following the Amsterdam Conference, with 

Dr. John R. Mott, who outlined his hopes of ecomenical church unity 

through the World Council of Churches of which he was one of the founders. 
For the maintenance of our work abroad, North 

American Associations secured $892,205.00, Canada $95,377.00, and Montreal 

$22,500.00. The final tabulation by units was as follows; 


1948 Objective Totals Secured 


Metropolitan Board $13,500.00 $13,961.47 
Central Branch 3,000.00 2,644,09 
Sir George Williams College 1,160.00 926,83 
Westmount Branch 800.00 765.89 
North Branch 600.00 601,00 
International Branch 1,000.00 1, 000,00 
Notre Dame de Grace Branch 1,210.00 1,250.00 
Southwestern Branch 450.00 504,12 
Lachine Branch 300.00 500,00 
Eastern Communities 100.00 100.00 
Point St. Charles Branch 25.00 15,00 
Camp Otoreke 250.00 246.29 
Kamp Kanawana 100,00 154,64 
Camp Perrot 25.00 50,04 

$22,500.00 $22,500.00 


WORLD'S ALLIANCE 


It is sometimes overlooked by our friends that 
in addition to our co-operation in Association affairs throughout the 
world through the International Committee of Y.M.C.A.s, the Canadian 
Movement through their National Council are an integral part of the World's 
Alliance of Y.M.C.A.s, with headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland, and that 
this body has been in existence since 1855. It is, in fact, exceeded only 
by the Red Cross Society in its length of continuous service. 

The World's Alliance of Y.M.C.A.s, during World 
Wars I and II, rendered a most outstanding service to prisoners of war in 
all belligerent countries, and even at this date is working with thousands 
of displaced persons in countries in Europe where there are between 
500,000 and 600,000 of these unfortunate exiles. 

Since the formation of the United Nations Organiza- 
tion, the World's Alliance has been accorded official consultative status 
by the Economic and Social Council under Article 71 of the Charter, and 


XII. 


XITI. 


XIV. 


eee 


WORLD'S ALLIANCE (cont'd) 


the Organization is maintaining a small office in New York City which 

is in daily contact with the United Nations Organization at Lake Success. 
The Montreal Association concurred in the action 

of the Canadian National Council of Y.M.C.A.s at their meeting in Winnipeg 

in 1947 in allocating 5% of our World Service Funds towards the support 

of the work of the World's Alliance. 


OBITUARIES 


We record, with deep regret, the passing of the 
following men who have been closely related to the work of the Association: 
Col. The Hon. J.L. Ralston, C.M.G., LL.D., D.C.L.: Mr. J.A. Kilpatrick; 
Mr, J. Harry Birks. 

Col. Ralston joined our Board of Directors in 
1939. Although his onerous governmental duties as Minister of Finance, 
and later as Minister of National Defence, prevented his active participa- 
tion in Association work prior to his retirement from the Cabinet in 1944, 
he maintained throughout a keen interest in all aspects of our programme 
both at home and abroad. 

Mre JeAe Kilpatrick was for many years a valued 
member of our Metropolitan Advisory Board. Our work at home and overseas 
received his generous support throughout the years both of war and peace. 

Mr. Je Harry Birks, a member of our Metropolitan 
Advisory Board of Directors, was a most generous supporter of our work, 
and a life-long friend of this Association. He was deeply interested 
in the service of the Y.M.C.A. in this city and also in the world outreach 
of the Association. To both,his gifts were substantial and significant, 

The never-failing interest of these loyal friends 
of the Association in the welfare of youth is gratefully remembered, and 
is a matter of deep satisfaction and thankfulness. 


APPRECIATION 


As the Young Men's Christian Association of 
Montreal completes its 98th year of service to the youth of the community, 
we are once again mindful of the fact that many factors have combined to 
weave the Association's work and influence more permanently into the warp 
and woof of the life of Greater Montreal. 

We are deeply grateful to all officers, members of 
Boards and Committees, and to hundreds of volunteer leaders, whose interest 
and support have contributed to the success of the year's programme; also 
to the daily and weekly press, and the radio stations for their generous 
support in publicizing our programmes for youth; to the Churches, Schools 


XIV. 


23% 
APPRECIATION (cont'd) 


and Service Clubs for their interest and support; to the Montreal 
Council of Social Agencies; to the Railways and other corporations; 
to the Young Women's Christian Association and many other co-operating 
organizations; to the staff of secretaries and others who have made 
the work of this year a vital Christian influence in the lives of 
thousands of Montreal's young people. Above all, we are in humility 
grateful to God for His blessing and power. 


Respectfully submitted, 


cA eateD 


J.W. BEATON, 
General Secretary 


STATISTICAL RECORD FOR 1948 


PERSONS ATTENDANCE 
VOLUNTEER SERVICE 


Volunteer group leaders dal ideal Jeean, eee 
On Boards, Committees & Councils Aisieli>' siaiwl) tolsie'veipOoo 
Attendance at meetings wate) |e ahel? jelers MCT glig § 

HEALTH AND PHYSICAL FITNESS 

Gymmasium activities Total participation 82,978 

Swimming, Classes, Individuals " i 141,648 

Athletic Events 2 a 9,719 

Persons taught to swim sigs wheel) /minie) Cy eee 

Swimming & Life-saving Tests sec) Verse! ie nO giaOr 

Teams, Leagues, Rinks & Playgrounds else” Viesereti i ior 119,881 
SOCIAL RECREATION 

Dramatic & Musical Events Total attendance ... 3,737 

Crafts and Hobbies . * or 18,501 

Dances, Parties and Social Affairs . eee 73,548 

Motion Pictures, Indoors and Outdoors " ine 33,358 


RELIGIOUS EDUCATION 


Meetings, Study Groups, Chapel " is oan 5,341 
SUMMER CAMPS 
Kanawana for boys - No. of campers stele) «wei sulle Re 328 
Otoreke for young people \ eee. | (bie wi) ahaa OS 
Perrot for boys & girls " else!) hoses “ASAP 
Tova \Camp Days) Bill CAMPS, e020 (ess, aes 23,3564 


City Day Camps (eleven). No. of Campers... .+. «+. 1,698 


PERSONAL PROBLEMS 
Number of Interviews Ae ee es 29,626 
Persons placed in employment eee anes are e 372 


CLUBS AND GROUPS 
Number of Clubs and Interest Groups arare | oak hae 107 
Meetings, Boys, Girls, Young People- 


Total attendance ... 51,769 
Total enrollment in all groups, classes, 
Teams, Councils, etc. O5)61 Vetere) were nego nt 
INFORMAL EDUCATION 
Lectures, Forums, Study Groups, etc. 6. «soe evs 24,851 
Trips,Outings, etc, eee | Nepal) el OK 4,600 
Libraries, Book Circulation Coen sete islets 43,031 


FORMAL EDUCATION 
Sir George Williams College, No. of Students.. «+. 5,915 
No. of classes 574, No. of student hours.. 1165, 702 


COMMUNITY SERVICE 
Use of 'Y' Buildings by outside organizations eee 323 
No. of times én See! see 1,655 
Estimated attendance of non-members ice DB TELENY Lure 61,710 


P. S.» ROSS & SONS 


June 7, 199. 


AUDITORS' REPORT 


The Young Men's Christian Association of Montreal, 
Montreal. 


We have made an examination of the attached Balance Sheet 
of The Young Men's Christian Association of Montreal as at March 31, 19h9 
and of the relative Statement of Income and Expenditure for the year. 
In connection therewith we made a test examination of the books of account 
and financial records of the Metropolitan Office and of the reports from 
the branches and from the Residence Building which are kept on the file at 
the Metropolitan Office but we did not make a detailed audit of the trans~ 
actions of the Association for the year. We have received all the inform= 
ation and explanations we have required. 


The inventories of books, foodstuffs and sundry supplies have 
been certified to be correct by the Business Secretary of the Association. 


In our opinion, based on the examination made, the attached 
Balance Sheet and relative Statement of Income and Expenditure correctly 
set forth the financial position of the Association as at March 31, 199 
and the result of its operations for the year ended on that date, according 
to the best of our information and the explanations given to us and as 
shown by the accounting records examined by us. 


P. S.- ROSS & SONS 


Chartered Accountants 


THE YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 


BALANCE SHEET AS AT MARCH 31, 19h9 


AOS) S By T's 
Fixed: 
Land, Buildines and Furnishings 
Drummond Street $1,640, 215.51 
Westmount Branch 105,660.73 
North Branch 100,542.50 
Southwestern Branch 238,893.46 
Notre Dame de Grace Branch 265 546.8 
Town of Mount Royal 5,663.91 
Kamp Kanawana 55,750.30 
Camp Otoreke 42,100.00 
Camp Perrot 36,159.76 
Bourret Avenue and Alepin Avenue 25,931.h0 
Miscellaneous 29.10 $2,517,058.51 


Assets held for Endowment Funds: 


Investment Securities at Cost 136,032.36 
Cash in Special Bank Account 398.36 136,430.72 


Assets held for Sir George Williams Collere 
Building and Scholarship Funds: 


Investment Securities 250.00 
Cash in Bank 27 .00 97 00 


Deferred Charges; 


Insurance, Taxes and Sundry Expenses 12,165.95 
Special Taxes payable May 1, 1948 to 
January 31, 1967 897.06 13,063.01 


Current Assets: 


Cash on Hand and in Banks 370,159406 
Accounts Receivable 33,720.09 
Residence Rentals Receivable less 
reserve for doubtful accounts 1,711.5 
Accrued Interest Receivable 136.449 
Inventory on Books, Foodstuffs and 
Sundry Supplies 32,95h.31 438,681.)0 


$3,105, 730.6), 


THE YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 


BALANCE SHEET AS AT MARCH 31, 199 


bv AUe Lek Dp Ee 
Capital: 
Capital Account = 
Balance March 31, 1949 
Legacies and Bequests 
Endowment Funds: 
D. A. Budge Memorial Fund $108,800.73 
De A. Budge Endowment Fund 1,000.00 
Other Endowment Funds 2h, 604617 
$134, Toh. 90 
Add: Net profit on sales of 
Investment Securities to date 2,025.82 
Sir George Williams College 
Building Fund 281.87 
Scholarship Fund 215413 
Less: Deficit 
Balance at April 1, 198 2,222.0) 
Add: Excess of Expenditure over 
Income for the year ending 
March 31, 1949 33599020 
Mortgages on Bourret and Alepin Avenue Houses 
Property Reserves: 
Drummond Street 
Camp Otoreke 
Bourret and Alepin Avenue Houses 
Depreciation 9,0 .62 
Operating balances to date 253218 


Special Taxes payable May 1, 198 
to January 31, 1967 


Unearned Income: 
Prepaid Tuition 
Prepaid Room Rents 


Current Liabilities; 
Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities 
Sundry deposits 


Financial Campaign of November 198: 


Receipts carried forward to period subsequent 


to March 31, 199 


$1, 980,969.70 
175,822.12 


136,430.72 


497.00 


$2,095, 719 Cin 


L,65,000,.00 
5 4h7 93 


L70,Q07. 93 


1,193.80 


65,319.88 


2, 768.31 


88,984.35 


6,417.70 


5,821.2) $2,287,898. 30 


16,879.2h 


471, 6441673 


897.06 


68.088,19 


95 502.05 


16),,92h,007 


$3 105,730.66), 


THE YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 
Banas ett Fes he Mair eileen tobe aborils ache acs ig ah sah a 


STATEMENT OF INCOME FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 19449 
es ee ee ES ee Ek IE 


1. SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS COLLEGE; 
(Revenue from Tuition Fees and receipts from other sources) 


2. GENERAL PROGRAMME INCOME; 
(Receipts from Recreational Departments and other 
programme activities including Camps) 


3 SERVICE FEATURES INCOME; 
(Revenue from Residence Rooms and receipts from food 
and other service features) 


he WORLD SERVICE; 
(Subscriptions to World Service) 


5« MEMBERSHIP FEES COLLECTED 


4 


6. SUBSCRIPTION INCOME; 
(Contributions from Corporations and Individuals 
during the annual Financial Campaign) 


7+ ENDOWMENT FUND INCOME 


8. MISCELLANEOUS INCOME; 
(Receipts from other sources not detailed above ) 


Excess of Expenditure over Income for the year 
ended March 31, 1949 transferred to Deficit 


$, 452,333.01 


‘wr 


126,505 54, 


21,360.39 


22,500.00 


109,474.28 
171,001.02 


6,120.06 


5 56140205 


$1,314, 934635 


35599420 


$1,318, 533655 


ee 


a. 


or 


7s 


8. 


10. 


THE YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 
a ee a ee 


STATEMENT OF EXPENDITURE FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 1949 
ee SF 


EDUCATIONAL: $ 64,941.82 


(Expenditure for the Sir George Williams Colleg 
educational work including a proportion of the cost of 
operating the space occupied in Drummond-Stanley 
Buildings and appropriation for property reserve) 


GENERAL PROGRAMME: 141,133.20 
(Expenditure which cannot be directly allocated to 
divisions representing general programme of Branches 
including recreational departments and camps ) 
SERVICE FEATURES: 215,562.72 
(Direct expenditure for operation of residence rooms, 
food services and other service features) 
WORLD SERVICES: (Remittances) 22,500.00 
GENERAL ADMINISTRATION: 67, 163675 
(Expenses for centralized accounting and auditing of 
the branches of the Association Metropolitan programme 
and business administration and contribution to National 
Council for general promotion of Y.M.C.A. activities 
throughout Canada) 
BRANCH ADMINISTRATION: 68,321.41 
(Expenditure for Desk Service and general supervision 
of branch activities) 
BOYS DIVISION: 5, 2h.62 
(Direct Expenditure for the boys' division programme ) 
OTHER DIVISIONS: 26179423 
(Direct Expenditure for the young men's, girls, ladies 
and senior men's division programme ) 
MEMBERSHIP PROMOTION: 9,550.8 
(Advertising of Y.M.C.A. activities and secretarial and 
clerical expense of interviewing prospective members 
and following up renewal of old memberships) 
PLANT : 2,8 , 756033 
(Rental for premises not owned, expenditures for main- 
tenance, heat, light, taxes and insurance for buildings 
owned by Association and provision for Property Reserve, 
Sir George Williams College excluded) 
91,316,533 655 


REPORT 
OF 
THE NOMINATING COMMITTEE 
TO THE 98TH ANNUAL MEETING OF 
THE YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF 
MONTREAL, 
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 8TH, 1949 


Mr. President; 


Your Committee, having carried out the constitutional requirements in 
connection with its duties, hereby nominates the following active members 
to become Directors of the Association for a period of three years ending 
March 3lst, 1952: 


Gerald W. Birks 
T. Denton Lewis 
JeP. Copland 
A.H. Cowie 

JR. Crawford 
JeH. Davey 


« Holden, K.C. 
- Long 


M. Long 


f, Mawhinney 


C 
W 
eC. Norsworthy 


R 
R 
H 
H.W 

Ss 

A.E. Sargent 


Your Committee also wishes to report that at the last meeting of the 
Metropolitan Board of Directors, the following were elected members of the 
Advisory Board for a period of three years as follows: 


D.C. Coleman 
Harold Crabtree 
Arthur Cross 
Hon.C.A. Dunning 
B.C. Gardner 
W.H. Goodwin 
H.J. Hannaford 
R.D. Harkness 


H. Jasper Humphrey 
Frederick Johnson 
W.J. Langston 

Paul A. McFarlane 
A.L. Paterson 

RN. Watt 

D.A. Whittaker 
W.P. Zeller 


Respectfully submitted, 
E. A. LESLIE 


Chairman 


