eB Reta Wok oe Mache Aah LY EA BS ed 


ANNUAL REPORT 


YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION 
of MONTREAL 


v 


185! — 1950 


“The Y.M.C.A. is a world-wide fellowship of men and boys united by a 
common loyalty to Jesus Christ for the purpose of building Christian 
personality and a Christian society.”’ 


ANNUAL REPORT 1949-50 


wee ee 


INDEX 
pu | PAGE 
I. INTRODUCTION i 
Ihe OUR METROPOLITAN ORGANIZATION 2 


III. PROGRAMME : 

Purpose and Fellowship Groups 4 
Informal Education 5 
Hobbies and Special Interests 6 
Health and Physical Education t 
Social Recreation 9 
Camping and Outdoor Activities 9 

3 


Sir George Williams College 1 
IV. PERSONAL SERVICES 15 
Ve OUR CHRISTIAN EMPHASIS 16 
Vie MEMBERSHIP 18 
VII. COMMUNITY=WIDE CO-OPERATION 19 
VIII. FINANCE AND PROPERTY 20 
IX. PERSONNEL 21 
Xe NATIONAL COUNCIL 23 
XI. WORLD SERVICE 24, 
XII. WORLD'S ALLIANCE 26 
XIII. OBITUARIES 26 
XIV. APPRECIATION 27 
XV. CONC LUS ION 27 
STATISTICAL RECORD AUDITORS' REPORT 
STATEMENT OF INCOME STATEMENT OF EXPENDITURES 


BALANCE SHEET REPORT OF NOMINATING COMMITTER 


I. 


THE NINETY-NINTH ANNUAL REPORT 
OF THE 
YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 
FOR THE YEAR ENDING MARCH 31ST, 1950. 


INTRODUCTION 


The 99th Annual Report of the Young Men's 
Christian Association of Montreal is submitted herewith by your Board 
of Directors as prescribed by the Constitution, 

This report will present only matters of general 
interest concerning the Montreal Association as a whole, since 
detailed reports of activities of the various branches have already 
been approved, at their respective Annual Meetings, and form a part 
of the branch records, 

, In the World scene, the continued tension 

between Russia and the western world has dominated all considerations. 
It has stimulated closer military and political association of the 
Atlantic peoples, crystallizing into permanent form the alliance 
which, as a wartime expedient, has carried the western world through 
two threats to its existence in the first half of this centurye 

The most important event of the year, both in 
terms of the world situation and to the Y.N.C.A. Movement, was the 
consolidation of power in China by the Communist armies led by Mao 
Tze=tung. The future of his government, both with regard to its 
capacity to govern modern China and its attitude to western business 
and institutions, will be once of the great questions to be answered 
in the years ahead, 

In Canada, the entry of Newfoundland into 
Confederation was welcomed throughout the country, Overseas immigration 
continued at a reduced rate, and the major national problem was the 
retention of markets in the sterling area with its heavy dollar deficits. 
With the decrease and cessation of Marshall Aid, this problem may become 
more difficult, but in the meantime, the nation's economy appears to be 
on a steady course. General elections in the United Kingdom and Canada 
returned both Governments to power, although the British Labour 
Government's majority was reduced to a slim margin, while the Canadian 
Liberal Government received the largest majority since Confederation 
for its fourth term of office. 


I. 


Le 


Ze 


INTRODUCTION (cont'd) 


Outstanding in our own Association work has been 
@ phenomenal growth of services to new Canadians at the International 
Branch, and the continued growth of our formal educational work, 
However, in the Point St. Charles Branch, the remodelling of the Lorne 
School greatly restricted our use of that building, and the decision 
of the School Board to re=open the John Jenkins School, which had been 
loased to us, deprived us of the use of this building and as a result, 
greatly crippled our work, Work has been continued on the revision of 
our Constitution and By=Laws and the changes proposed for action at 
this Annucl Mooting will clarify the work of Boards and.Cormittees, As a 
result of the progross made by all tho branches in connection with 
our Survey, much valuable material is now available for the formulation 
of a policy of oxpansion of Y.M.C.A. work to serve the youth of this 
rapidly growing city. 


OUR METROPOLITAN ORGANIZATION 


To sorve the interests of the entire metropolis 
most effectively, tho Association operates in, and from, five 
separate 'Y' building branches, six community branches making use of 
rented quarters and facilities, three summer camps and one ski lodge. 
It also uses many private homes, 

Within the general framework of our Constitution 
and policies, cach of the eleven self-governing branches conducts a 
programme adapted to the needs and resources of its own district. 
Local Boards of Management and Camp Committees, with representation on 
the Metropolitan Board of Directors, give leadership to the decentral- 
ized programme, 

The following outline indicates the degree to 
which the Y.M.C.A. is sorving Greater Montreal; 


FIVE BUILDINGS OWNED BY THE ASSOCIATION 


Notre Dame de Grace ~ 4335 Hampton Avenue, serving Notre Dame de 
Branch Grace, Montreal West and Hampstead. 
Southwestern Branch - 1000 Gordon Avenue, Verdun, serving Verdun, 


Crawford Park, Bronx Park, Ville Emard and 
Cote St, Paul. 

Westmount Branch - 4585 Sherbrooke St. West, serving Westmount 
and Eastern Notre Dame de Grace. Extension 
work has been carried on in the St. Henri 
arca and in King's School. 


IIe 


Se 


OUR METROPOLITAN ORGANIZATION (cont'd) 


North Branch - 


Central Branch ~ 


5550 Park Avenue, serving the Northend, 
Outremont, Park Extension and Town of Mount 
Royal. Extension work has been carried on 
in the Peace Centennial School serving the 
Jean Talon district, 

1441 Drummond Street, serving the Central 
area of the city but drawing from all parts 
of Grcater Montreal, including the Southshore 
and Lakeshore districts, 


SIX BRANCHES USING RENTED QUARTERS OR OTHER COMMUNITY FACILITIES 


International Branch - 


Lachine Branch - 

Point St. Charles - 
Branch 

Rosemount Branch - 


Montreal East Branch - 


Terminal Park Branch - 


183 St. Catherine St. Hast, serving the East 
Central district and especially New Canadians 
from all parts of the City, Its educational 
work has been carried on in Aloxandra School, 
Facilities have also been used in Aberdeen 
and Montreal High Schools, 

depending entirely on the use of school and 
Church buildings, city parks, ctc., sorving 
Lachine, the Highland section of Ville 
Lasalle, Ville St. Pierre and Dorval, 
deponding chiofly upon use of Lorne School 
and other community facilities and homes. 
located in the Rosemount School, with 
secretary's office, social, games and craft 
rooms and the use of school gymnasium and 
playficld on schedules 

making use of schools, Churches and other 
conmunity facilities in Montreal East and 
Tetroauville,. 

largely dependent on the use of private 
hones. 


PROJECTS WHICH SERVE THE ENTIRE METROPOLITAN AREA 


Sir George Williams - 
College & Schools 


Camp Otoreke - 
Kamp Kanawana - 
Camp Perrot - 
Otoreke Ski Club - 


using the Drummond Street Building, Drummond 
and Stanley Street Annexes and Colley Hall of 
the Salvation Army Citadel. 

at Lake St. Joseph, near Ste, Agathe, for 
young poople. 

near St. Sauveur in the Laurentians, for boys. 
on Ile Perrot, operates six weeks for boys 
and two weeks for girls, 

with Lodge at Christieville in the Laurentian 
Moyntains. 


III. 


4e 


FROGRAIME 


PURPOSE AND FELLOWSHIP GROUPS: In its self-governing fellowship 
groups and clubs which promote friendship, self-development and service, 
the Y.IM.C.A. finds one of its greatest opportunities for helping young 
people direct their energies towards constructive manhood and womanhood. 
There has been marked expansion in this programme area, 

Chapters of the Phalanx Fellowship clubs for young 
men, 18 = 26 years of age, are now active in Central, N.D.G. and Montreal 
East Branches, Their motto is "Service" and the purpose "to further 
Christian living and citizenship among young men of their community". 
The Gamma Supper Club of young men in the Central Residence and a Phiat 
Club for young women, couterpart of Phalanx, of Montreal East Branch, 
have been organized during the past year, The Business Girls! Supper 
Club has been re-organized at Southwestern Branch, Noteworthy among 
other Fellowship Clubs for young men and women, boys and girls, have 
been the Yeomants Club of Central, the YEBA of Westmount, BBC of 
Southwestern, Y'tEttes of Point St, Charles, the St. Andrews Women's Club 
of Rosemount Branch, and the Mothers! Clubs of North and Point St. 
Charles, Club 15 of North, Bachelors! and Sportsmen's Clubs of Westmount, 
the Twenty Musketeers of N.D.G.e and four Neighbourhood-Y Clubs of 
Southwestern. 

School Clubs: Throughout the past year, 22 !Y! ~ 
sponsored clubs were active in schools of Greater Montreal. These clubs 
include 6 Gra=-Y Clubs in elenientary schools of Montreal East and 
Tetreauville and 13 Senior and 3 Junior Hi-Y¥ Clubs in St. Laurent, 
Strathcona, Westhill, Montreal West, Westmount, Lachine and Verdun High 
Schools, Membership in these school clubs totalled 508 boys and girls. 

By mutual agreement, the joint operation by Y.W.C.A. 
and Y.MeC.A. of Girls Hi-Y Clubs has been terminated, At the beginning 
of the school year in September 1949, the Y.M.C.A. assumed responsibility 
for all Hi-Y Clubs of Greater Montreal, Twenty boys and fifteen girls 
represented Montreal Hi-Y Clubs as delegates at a Regional Eastern 
Ontario and Quebec Conference held in Cornwall, April 18th = 20th, 
Durihg the Easter, vacatioén,. 25 boys from Senior Hi-Y Clubs of Greater 
Montreal took a throe=day trip to New York and the United Nations Head- 
quarters at Lake Success, with the helpful co-operation of the World's 
Committee of the YeM.CeA. in New York, The Grand Chapter of the Girls! 
Hi-Y Clubs sponsored a banquet in Budge Memorial Hall. A Fall Officers! 
Training Conference, sponsored by Boys! and Girls! Grand Chapters, was 
held at Camp Otorekc, Grand Chapter assumed joint responsibility for 
planning and conducting the December Annual Hi-Y Rally, which was 
attended by 180 boys and girls from fourteen clubs and a number of 
school principals and advisors, All our Hi-Y Clubs have undertaken 
worthwhile service projects in their schools and communities, 


III. 


5e 


PROGRAMME (cont'd) 


Foremen's Clubs of Montreal: The Senior Club, 
affiliated with Central Branch, had a membership of 450 in its eighth 
season, An average of 275 attended the monthly dinner mectings held 
at the Quoen's Hotel, followed later by group sessions at the Central 
Y.M.CeA. The Club has sponsored a sorics of talks on Industrial 
Supervision given by outstanding North American authorities, The 
Junior Foremen's Club has 130 young men, 20 ~ 30 years of age, enrolled 
in its membership, Both Senior and Junior Clubs have rendered valuable 
service in connection with our Camp Perrot, to which reference is made 
elsewhere in this report, 


INFORMAL EDUCATION: 

The Association has always encouraged young people 
in the development of intellectual and cultural interests which help 
make life more enjoyable and bring increased satisfaction in the areas 
of vocation, citizenship and social intercourse, 

English for New Canadians: Outstanding in our 
Adult Education heve been the year-round classos for newcomers to 
Canada held at International Branch, With a staff of seventeen 
experienced and specially trained instructors, forty-six English classes 
have been held regularly, five nights per week, at Alexandra School. 
Enrollment, in Beginners, Intermediate and Advanced Classes totalled 
1,071 (845 in 1948), with 22,806 aggregate attendance (12,423 in 1948). 
Linked closely with the teaching of English, so vitally necessary to 
these people of 48 differcnt nationalities, has beon programme designed 
to give thom a greater understanding and knowledge of Canada, such as 
educational tours and outings, talks, ofter-class socials, use of 
roading room facilitics, and the opportunity to apply for Canadian 
citizenship by filing "Declaration of Intention" papers, 

Model United Nations Assembly: Sponsored by the 
Metropolitan Young Adult Committco, many months were spent in planning 
and organizing o Model United Nations Assombly, held in. Budge Hall. 

At three sessions of the Assembly, topics on the current agenda of the 
United Nations were debated. Various Montreal youth organizations, 
Y.M.C.A, branches and Sir George Williams College took part. General 
A.G.L. McNaughton in the opening session commended the Y.M.C.A. on the 
undertaking and said, "It is one of the best endeavours for education 
of the public in the ideals and work of the United Nations that could 
be conceived", 

So-Ed Clubs: A socialseeducational programme for 
young men and women in the form of a series of weekly gatherings was 
again featured in Central, Westmount and Notre Dame de Grace Branches, 
during both Spring and Fall, 


Tits 


be 


PROGRAMME (cont'd ) 


Lectures and Discussions: The Fifth Annual 
Parent lecture sericos Was sponsorea by the N.D.G. Branch in co- 
operation with the Nursery School Committee, Discussion periods 
following coach lecture were conducted by trained leaders, 

The Montreal East Alpha ond Omega ChurcheY 
Discussion group completed its third year of timely=topic 
discussions. 

The Central Branch Citizens! Forum group followed 
the CBC series, and Rosemount Branch My-Wy Club participated in the 
CBC serics "In search of ourselves", as part of their social, 
educational and recreational club programme, 

Libraries; In the four librarios, 2 circulation 
of 41,702 books has been recorded, and tho total use of reading room 
facilitios was 190,148, The C.T, Williams Memorial Library of the 
Southwestern Branch contains 3,000 volumes available to children and 
adults throughout the year, The Central Branch Library contains 
5,544 books, Of these, 814 are listcd as “boys! books"; 46 magazines 
end 10 newspapers are on file, The International Branch Library is 
being built up to contain books, periodicals and newspapers most 
useful to our New Canadians, Sir George Williams College Library 
contains approximately 20,000 volumes, 


HOBBIES AND SPECIAL INTERESTS: 

Perhaps the most widely known adult craft 
programme. is that conducted in the International Branch, Instruction 
in weaving, knitting, leathcrwork, metalwork, woodcarving and painting 
of the highest quality has becn available. Members of the adult craft 
department have exhibited and demonstrated their work at the Canadian 
National Exhibition in Toronto, at the International Women's Exhibition 
in New York, the Ontario Art Gallery in Toronto and in many of our own 
Montreal 'Yt branchese 

Hobbies and Craft Classes have played an important 
part in all our So=Ed programmes during the past year, 

The Torminal Park Ladies Vocational Group, with a 
membership of seventy ladics meeting regularly in Maisonneuve School, 
and the millinory classes at Notre Dame de Grace Branch where 94 ladies 
enrolled for instruction in designing and remodelling of hats, were 
two groups which met with outstanding success during the past year. 

Othor adult hobby and interest groups have 
included choss clubs, bridge instruction, photography, woodworking, 
music appreciation, dressmaking, charm clinics, homomaker's classes, 
effective speaking and golf schools, Crafts and hobbies have continued 
to hold prominent place in our boys! and girls! programmes in all 
branches, Aeroplane and boat modelling, leathercraft and woodworking 
top the list of interests for boys, while shelleraft, art classes and 


IIl. 


Te 


FROGRAMME (cont'd) 


and plastic work have ranked high in popularity with girls. 

Westmount and Southwestern Community Hobby Shows 
were again conducted successfully. With the co-operation of schools, 
service clubs and youth organizations in these two communities, and 
the careful judging of thousands of exhibits in the various depart- 
ments, these events have been an incentive to good craftsmanship and 
the development of skill on the part of hundreds of youthful 
exhibitors and contestants, 


HEALTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION: 

The contribution of the Y.M.C.A. to the "physical 
fitness" of thousands of citizens of Groater Montreal is an impressive 
one. The Y.M.C.A.s conducted a comprehensive programme aimed to improve 
the physical wollbeing of thousands of men, women, boys ond girls of 
Greater Montreal. In the Association gymnasia and swimming pools, and 
in the use of school facilitios, rinks and playgrounds, almost overy 
form of sport and recreation is to be found, The Montreal 'Y' takes 
pride, not only in its sharo in the training of champions and 
contestants in the British Empiro Games, but also in the fact that 
many thousands of less export persons have found enjoyment and relax- 
ation in its well-organized physical progranme. 


Leaders Corps training has been traditionally 
an integral part of physical cducation of the Y.M.C.A. During the 
past year, groups of young people with potential leadership ability 
at the junior, intermediate and senior levels, were given Leaders 
Corps practical and theoretical training in Central, Westmount, North, 
Southwestern, NeD.G. and Point St, Charles Branches, 

The Baskctball season again opened with Schools 
and Clinics in many of our branches, Thousands of boys and young men 
took part in house leagues, Inter-¥ leagues, Church and City Leagues. 
Bight Branches took part in a Basketball Jamboree held in the Christmas 
Holidays in the Notre Damo de Graco gymnasium, for boys of bantam and 
midget ages. Thirty-six games were played in one day. A similar 
Jemboreo was held at Central Branch during tho Easter Holidays, N.D.Ge 
and North Branches again entered toams in the Women's Open Basketball 
League, and Rosemount Branch in the Montrcoal Ladies! League. 

Swimming continues to hold top place in the 
physical activities in & twelveemonth programme in the five branch 
pools, with an aggrogate participation of 126,855, Several inter-branch 
Swimming Meets for boys and girls last yoar gave opportunity for young 
swimmers to compete, Loarn=toeswim campaigns were conducted in six 
branches, <A total of 2,276 persons were tought to swim in our 'Y* pools. 
An additional 1,577 passed progressive swimming and lifeesaving tests. 
Forty-five members of tho N.D.G. Girls' Aquatic Club presented their 


8. 


TII, PROGRAMME (cont'd) 


second Annual Water Pageant to two capacity audiences in a display 
of colourful, ornamental and synchronized swimming. The Annual 
Inter-branch Swimming Meet for boys was held at Central Branch on 
New Year's Day. 

Gymnastics, calisthenics, apparatus work and 
tumbling continue to have an important place in our physical 
programme, Increasing attention is being placed on individual and 
weight-reducing exercises in gym classes for adults. Southwestern, 
Notre Dame de Grace and North Branches have conducted a comprehensive 
physical programme for women and girls. 

Badminton Clubs were active in the building 
branches (5 senior and 2 junior clubs) and school facilities were 
used by North (Peace Centennial), Rosemount and International Branches, 
where Badminton was a popular part of young people's recreational 
programme. Tennis Clubs at Southwestern and Notre Dame de Grace 
Branches had a total enrollment of 272 young men and women. Beginners! 
instruction, round robins, socials, and inter=club play are given 
special emphasis in these clubs, 

Weight=lifting and Wrestling coaches in 
Southwestern and Central Branches respectively have produced British 
Empire Games champions. More than 800 men are now enrolled for weight 
training at the Central Branch and of these, 525 have received 
beginners! instruction. Weight-lifting clubs have also been active 
in North, Notre Dame de Grace and Westmount Branches, 

Hockey and Skating at the NeD.G.e Branch - 
an attendance of 12,530 on the pleasure skating rink, and 1,850 
participants in hockey were reported. 

Bowling: A small league of four teams of 32 
Montreal East Branch young people, played weekly, Central Branch also 
sponsored young people's bowling, 

Boxing: The Montreal East Branch sponsored 
the preliminaries of the Anntial Golden Gloves tournament, Twenty bouts 
were held at St. James' Hall before an audience of more than one 
thousand. 


Softball, Baseball, Volleyball, Handball, Judo, 
Squash, Table Tennis, were all included in the Association programme, 

Annual Displays have marked the culmination 
of Fall and Winter physical programme in five branches = Point Ste 
Charles, North, Central, Southwestern and Notre Dame de Grace, Large 
audiences attended these entertainments, where members of all ages 
presented colourful numbers including gymnastics, apparatus, tumbling, 
tap and ballet dancing. 


III. 


Qe 


PROGRAMME (cont'd) 


SOCIAL RECREATION: 

The need and desire for social recreation 
on the part of young people has been shown by their enthusiastic 
participation in numerous social clubse During the past year, 

72,096 attendances were recorded at dances, parties and social 
affairs, Successful mass activities, included in our larger social 
clubs, require skillfull longerange planning by young people's 
committees. Outstanding among our young adult social clubs have 

been the newly-organized Square Dance Club of Westmount Branch, the 
My=Wy Club of Rosemount Branch, the "Yoics" Club of Point St. Charles, 
and the long-established Saturday Night Clubs of Central and South- 
western Branches. 

Preliminary to the Fall and Winter activities 
of the teen-age clubs, a September Inter-Branch Weekend Conference was 
held at Camp Otoreke, attended by delegates from the various branch 
clubs and their advisors. Active among these popular clubs have 
been the Central Teen=Centre, Southwestern Fri-Y, Ville Lasalle 
Teen-Town (affiliated with Southwestern Branch), Ville Lasalle Teen= 
Club (affiliated with Lachine Branch), and Teen Clubs of NeD.Ge, 
Rosemount, Westmount and North Branches. 

Social programme for younger children has 
taken the form of parties and masquerades at Halloweten, Christmas, 
St. Valentine's Day, etc, Regular Saturday entertainments of moving 
pictures and sing=songs have been enthusiastically attended at 
Central, N.D.G., North, Montreal East, Westmount and Lachine Branches, 

The traditional, ever-popular YeMeC.A. Father 
and Son Banquets were held during the past year at Central, North, 
Southwestern, N.D.G. and Rosemount Branches. 


CAMPING AND OUTDOOR ACTIVITIES; 

Camp Otoreke; Camp Otoreke has completed 
its 56th year of operation, 492 men, 501 women and 35 couples 
registered, making a total of 1,063 campers, for 10,594 camper=days 
during the season which extends from June llth to September 3rd. This 
registration is an increase of 45 campers and 271 camper=days over the 
previous year. 

While 76% of the campers reside within the 
metropolitan area of Montreal, the remainder came from sixteen other 
localities, Two outstanding groups to visit the camp were a party of 
thirty young men and women members from Rochester, NeYe, and a 
"Winnipeg Caravan" of twenty-three men and women, who made a throoeday 
stop=over in camp on a bus trip to Eastern Canada. 

The camp now has accommodation in cabins, 
tents and dormitory for 85 women, 89 men, 5 couples and 25 staff 
members. The dining room accommodates 150, Facilities for programme 


III. 


10. 


PROGRAMME (cont'd) 


include 42 canoes, 12 rowboats, swimming raft, horseshoe pitch, 
table tennis room, lounge, 1 volleyball and 2 tennis courts, 
archery range and outdoor chapel, The large dining hall serves 

in the evening as a recreation hall, The weekly programme of 

former years provided the pattern for 1949, Activities were 
organized by an elected committee each week, and invariably 
included the Saturday evening social mixer, Sunday morning Chapel 
service, alleday outings to the falls at the lower end of the lakes, 
weiner and corn roasts, regattas, rainy day mock trials and weekly 
tournaments of indoor and outdoor sports and gamese More than 200 
campers enrolled for instruction in beginners and advanced swimming 
and diving classes. Thirty-six of these passed the Red Cross tests. 
Leatherwork again took first place as a craft interest, 371 campers 
particpating. 

Otoreke is ideally situated in the Howard Valley 
of the Laurentians, on one of a string of beautiful lakes seven 
miles in length. Further north, our campers find excellent water for 
canoe trips into the area west of Lake Labelle, Since canoe trips 
became a part of Otoreke programme, their popularity has increased 
to such an extent that registrations for last summer's six trips 
were filled before the camp opening date. Parties of 18 = 21 young 
people spent six days on each of the six trips, 

In June and September, seven weekend confer-= 
ences were held at Camp for branch programme planning, training in 
leadership and committee work, : 

The 1949 camp improvements included the 
installation of Liquigas Ranges, a Hobart Mixer and Whirlpool Dish- 
washer for the kitchen, and plastic dishes for the dining room, Ten 
modified water system toilets were installed. A direct telephone 
service to the camp island has also been provided. 

Kamp Kanawana;: Before the opening date for the 
1949 season, it was apparent that enrollment would reach the highest 
in the past thirteen years, according to available records, A total 
of 557 boys from 8 = 16 years of age attemled camp for 1,464 camper 
weeks, The average stay per camper was 4.1 weeks, 

Administrative, maintenance and programme staff 
brought the total personnel to 57, including four section directors, 
31 counsellors and four counsellors-in-training, An intensive pre~ 
camp training course and weekly in-camp sessions, now considered 
basic to good counsellor training, were provided. Expert instruction 
on nature lore, health education, and a "socio-drama" approach to 
typical camp problems were included in the course this yeare 

The ever-popular waterfront programme of 
swimming and canoeing was based on a series of graded tests and awards, 
to ensure a maximum of safety and to encourage boys to strive for 


Ill. 


ils 


PROGRAMME (cont'd) 


proficiency in these skills. During the summer, 239 boys passed 
swimming and life-saving tests, In all, 546 tests were passed 
throughout the season, and 289 boys were taken on overenight hikes 

to different parts of the beautiful 600 acres of wooded camp property 
which is near St. Sauveur in the heart of the Laurentians, In 
addition to war canoe trips down the Ottawa River, three trips were 
taken to Lake Archambault and the Pembina River. 

Interest groups were planned, based upon the 
specific interestsof the boys of each age sectione This plan has 
proven more satisfactory than the former method in which the ages of 
the participants were not taken into consideration. “Lumbermen~ 
Voyageur" Week, as a closing feature of camp programme has become a 
whorthwhile tradition of Kanawana, A striking, lerge fireplace mural 
in the dining hall makes use of this motif. Division of the entire 
camp into two teams for this final week of goodenatured competition 
again met with tremendous enthusiasm on the part of campers. There 
was a more goneral awareness of the value and importance of tent 
devotions and chapel periods last summer, due in part to added 
emphasis on this aspect of programme in the counsellor training course. 
There were 1,210 attendances at Sunday Chapel recorded, 

Programme and administration profitted by 
a number of improvements and additions to camp equipment and facilities. 
A new wharf, 70! x 8', with 15' diving tower, was constructed at the 
main swimming area. A large raft, built to withstand ice-damage 
replaced the former jetty. A powerful motor to operate the sewage pump 
was installed. Twelve new dining tables with tempered masonite tops 
and stainless steel trim were purchased. Three new canoes were added 
to the Kanawana fleet and fotir of the oldest canoes were recovered. 


Camp Perrot: The establishment of Camp 
Perrot six years ago as a low-cost camp for boys and girls, close to 
the city, has been justified in the capacity registration of campers 
in the 1949 season, A total of 229 boys attended for a six-week Boys! 
Camp, June 27th = August 8th, followed by 100 girls for a two-week 
period. The total number of camper days for boys and girls was 5,439, 
an increase of 1,617 over the previous year. 

The dining hall and kitchen facilities, 
improved by the installation of propane gas stoves, and the fully- 
equipped John W. Ross Memorial Hospital, proved invaluable assets to the 
campe Special appreciation is due the Foremen's Club and Junior 
Foremen's Club for thoir interest and work at this camp. The Foremen's 
Club continued their project of remodelling the barn for use in camp 
programme, particularly for craftwork and rainy-day events, The Junior 
Foremen gave valuable assistance in repairing camp equipment. The 
Montreal Westward Rotary Club, the Kinsmen's Club and Kinettes of Lachine 


III. 


PROGRAMME (cont'd) 


contributed generously in sending many boys and girls of their 
community for a two-week stay at campe 

The proximity of the camp, on the south shore 
of Ile Perrot only thirty-seven miles from Greater Montreal, makes 
it possible for parents to visit at all times during the week, This 
has proven a handicap in the operation of organized programmes The 
camp staff has attempted to overcome this difficulty, stressing 
Sunday afternoon as visiting time. On the other hand, this location 
makes it possible for groups from most of the Y.M.C.A. branches and 
Churches to use the Camp facilities for picnics, evening outings 
and weekend canoe tripse Six groups held weekend conferences at 
Perrot in June and September, An attendance of 727 was recorded in 
these visits. The use of the waterfront was an important part of 
the programme and the boats and canoes had a maximum use throughout 
the seasone 

The Perrot staff had a personnel of thirty- 
nine including fifteen boys! camp counsellors, and twelve girls! 
camp counsellors. 

Otoreke Ski Lodge: The 1949-50 Otoreke Ski 
Lodge season was successful in spite of poor skiing conditions 
during the month of January and the curtailment of all C.NeRe 
special ski train service during January and Februsry. The Ski 
Lodge at Christieville was secured in the Fall of 1947 after being 
used on a rental basis for two seasonse Various improvements have 
been made to the lodge facilities during the past three seasons, 

In the Fall of 1949, a new chimney replaced the old one and the fire- 
place was rebuilt, The dining hall was enlarged to seat 80, and a 
new sleeping cabin was built to accommodate 36. Sleeping accommo- 
dation is now provided for 85, 

One hundred and fifty young people were members 
of the ski club. These were given first call on the accommodation 
and a slightly lower weekend rate than non-members, Altogether, 

558 persons were guests at the lodge during the season, This number 
does not include the many who had meals only at the lodge, 

A committee of seven young people and the 
Director planned end carried out weekly Saturday night programmes of 
movies, dancing and other activities. Ski instruction for beginners 
was provided. 

Three young women and seven young men, all 
members of the Otoreke Lodge, served on the Laurentian Zone Ski 
Patrol, doing duty on the hills in the vicinity of Christieville. 


eae Day ones! Summer programme for boys 
and girls in the Montreal Y.M.eC.A. has become an intensive, highly 


specialized piece of work, With the closing of school doors in June, 


13. 


III. PROGRAMME (cont'd) 


each of our eleven branches is prepared to welcome the crowds of 
children who come to join our City Day Camps. Every available inch 
of playfield space is utilized as clubs and leaders take to the 
out-of-doors, Swimming pools were used to capacity last summer, 
Montreal East, Terminal Park and Central Branches made use of Longue 
Pointe Ordnance Depot swimming pool, Weekly all-day picnics to 
beaches in the vicinity of Montreal were featured. Inter=Branch 
Swimming Meets, track and field days, and softball leagues wero 
popular special events. Bicycle trips and overnight hikes were 
planned for older boys and girls, Westmount City Day Camp took the 
theme "Know your City". The rallying point of Camp Y-Oga of South- 
western Branch was a large totem pole, set up on the playfield. Camp 
Champlain, of Point St. Charles Branch, used Grace Church as camp 
headquarters, Camp Hochelaga, of the N.D.G, Branch, featured weekly 
Mother and Daughter, Father and Son swims, More than 1,500 children 
enrolled in City Day Camps, with a total attendance of 50,5936 
Bonfire Shows: Summer bonfire programmes 
at Notre Dame de Grace and Point St. Charles Branches continued to 
attract thousands of children of these communities. The NeD.G,. 
Bonfire shows were held twice weekly at the branch out=door theatre, 
22 performances drew an attendance of 24,778. This community under- 
taking has been warmly endorsed by the Montreal Police Department as 
an effective means of combatting juvenile delinquency in the district, 


STR GEORGE WILLIAMS COLLEGE AND SCHOOLS: 

The steady progress which has marked the 
growth of Sir George Williams College and its Schools, the formal 
educational branch of the Montreal Association, continued thr oughout 
the year. 

This progress was both quantitative and 
qualitative, Registration reached new high levels, in both summer 
and winter sessions and in both day and evening divisions; there 
was @& consolidation and rounding out of course offerings and curricula; 
and the place of the College in the Montreal educational scene became 
more clearly apparent and more definitely established, 

The College, for which a special Charter 
or Act of Incorporation had been obtained from the Provincial 
Legislature in 1948, was last June admitted to membership in the 
National Conference of Canadian Universities. The degrees of the College 
received formal recognition from the Bar of the Province for purposes 
of the Bar Act, from the Protestant Central Board of Examiners of the 
Department of Education fer purposes of the High School Teachers! 
Diploma, and in general, the processes of academic recognition of the 
College became much clearer, Graduates of the College continued to be 


IIlI. 


14. 


PROGRAMME (cont'd) 


admitted to graduate and professional schools of other universities 
in ever-increasing numbers, so that about one-third of the College's 
alumni heave been able to continue to higher studies since the first 
degree was granted in the College in 1936. 

The four sub-Collegiate schools attached 
to the College continued to serve a large but nd so rapidly growing 
student body. The Evening High School with more than 1,100 students, 
still provides the only graded evening high school programme in the 
Province, although the numbers of employed adults seeking such 
education are increasing rather than diminishing, The Evening Division 
of the Business School, which provided vocational education for about 
800 persons during the year, is the oldest unit in the College and 
Schools, representing the first group of formal classes started by 
the Montreal Y.M.C.A. in 1873, 

Registration in the various units of the 
College and Schools during the year was as follows; 


Winter Session, 1949-50: Day Evening Total 
1. College (Faculties of Arts, 

Science & Commerce) 818 29059 3,157 
2 Evening High School - 1,133 1,133 
5e Evening Elementary School - 99 99 
4, Business School 251 821 1,072 
Se Art School 84 225 309 


Summer Session, 1949: 


1. College (Faculties of Arts, 


Science & Commerce) =~ 661 661 

2e Evening High School - 273 273 
3e Business School 82 184 266 
be 1,118 1,200 


The graduating class for the academic year 
1949-50 was the largest in the history of the College, 255 students 
receiving Bachelors' degrees and some 60 other diplomas, The Evening 
High School graduated 69 persons at its Convocation exercises in 
November, 1949, and the Evening Elementary School prepared 38 adults 
for entrance to High School, 

It is interesting to note the growth of 
the College (the Faculties of Arts, Science and Commerce) as revealed 
by the number of degrees granted in representative years since the 
expansion of the curriculum into a full four-year programme, 


III. 


Ve 


15.6 


PROGRAMME (cont'd) 


1956 = 2 1947 = 108 
1940 = 28 1949 = 175 
1945 - 654 1950 = 256 


The number of veterans studying in the 
College under rehebilitetion benefits from the Department of Veterans! 
Affairs, continued to diminish; most of the veterans still enrolled 
in the College were in the third and fourth years. It is worthy of 
note, however, that the places of the veterans in the College enroll- 
ment are being taken by "civilian" students coming directly from the 
High Schools, and that for the second successive year, the first 
year class has been larger than the previous year. 

The physical accommodation of the College 
and Schools was augmented during the year by the opening of another 
rented annex, accommodating about 200 students at one time, and 
increasing to four the number of buildings in which classes are held 
in addition to the main Central Building, This additional accommodation 
made it possible to release other space for the improvement of library 
and laboratory facilities, and for faculty offices and studentst 
common rooms. Great care is being taken to build up the library and 
laboratory facilities, to keep pace with the steadily increasing 
enrollment and the growing number of advanced courses being offerede 

The counselling and guidance programme 
in the College continued to receive emphasis, under the direction of 
a full-time Student Counsellor and part-time assistants, Their work 
included a growing amount of "placement" of students and graduates, 
and this has recently been augmented by the part-time services of a 
placement officer from the National Employment Service, 

The College continues to emphasize in 
its curriculum a type of general education in which practical and 
vocational subjects are blended with the humanities and courses of a 
more general cultural value, This particular philosophy of education 
has grown naturally from the basic philosophy of the Y.M.C.A. 


PERSONAL SERVICES 


RESIDENCES ; The Association continued to operate 
three residences for young men, with almost 100% occupancy; the 
Stanley Street Building (560 beds), North Branch (26 beds) and Westmount 
Branch (31 beds), Total number of bednights was recorded as 223,617, 
This is an increase of 1,184 over the previous year. 


Ve 


16. 


PERSONAL SERVICES (cont'd) 


The Stanley Street Building accommodated 2,037 
different young men in the dormitory for periods longer than two 
weeks, and 7,960 transients, or a total of 9,997. These residences 
have filled an important function in providing living quarters for 
hundreds of newcomers to the city, and through our Rooms Registry 
many more have been able to find lodgings in private homes. 

A large number of young men in the residences 
have taken part in branch programmes throughout the past year. This 
has been especially evident in So-Ed programmes, Saturday night dances 
and Sunday evening Fireside and Musicales. Four residence dinners 
were well attended in the Central Branch, over one hundred were present 
at their Christmas dinner, 


INTERVIEWS AND EMPLOYMENT; 

In the on-going programme, with thousands of 
young people passing through Y.I.C.A. doors daily, the Association 
recognizes that one of its primeresponsibilities is that of counsel- 
ling and guidance, John Fisher in a CBC Trans Canada broadcast, 
described the Y.M.C.A. as "a moral Christian force designed to help 
young men fit into the stream of life". Through personal interviews 
with secretaries and understanding leaders, young people have been 
helped to make the best use of their resources. Home and Church 
relationships, making friends, a health programme, the wise use of 
leisure time, educational and vocational needs and interests are all 
included in the wide variety of problems which have continually 
confronted young people in a year of world tension and unrest. During 
the past year, 10,742 personal problem interviews have been reported. 

The Y.M.C.A. seeks to be of service to youth 
seeking counsel in securing their first jobs, or in an effort to better 
their prospects or change the type of work in which they are engaged. 
In addition to the extensive vocational counselling service of Sir 
George Williams College during the year, the total number of placements 
through Y.M.C.A. branches was 396, a slight increase over the previous 
yeare 


OUR CHRISTIAN EMPHASIS 


In assessing our achievements, it is essential 
that we keep before us the basic purpose of “the Organization. As 
formulated by the International Convention, this is; 

"The Young Ments Christian Association we 
regard as being in its essential genius a worldwide 
fellowship of men and boys united by common loyalty 
to Jesus Christ for the purpose of building Christian 
personality and a Christian Society. " 

As a ley movement, the Y.M.C.A. throughout its 
history has been characterized by a limited interest in doctrines and 


V. 


17. 


OUR CHRISTIAN EMPHASIS (cont'd) 


denominations, The Association during the last few decades has laid 
stress on two approaches: 

(a) An emphasis on Applied Christianity 
which attempts to bring the Christian Spirit into leisuretime activities 
and the physical, mental and social needs of the community. 

(b) An ecumenical outlook which stresses 
the universal and inclusive character of Christianity, both in the local 
community and throughout the World. 

It is fully recognized that the 'Yt cannot 
and should not attempt to duplicate the Churches! work of formal worship 
and religious instruction, Its greatest usefulness probably lies in 
making available to youth an abundance of life experiences in which 
Christian teaching can be given practical application and testing, If 
these principles are kept in mind, the activities of the past year will 
be found to be more meaningful and to follow a pattern, The battle for 
character takes place in the practical areas of life: the use of 
leisure, the choice of and preparation for a vocation, the attitude 
developed towards the responsibilities of citizenship, the choosing of 
a life partner and setting up of a home. When choices in relation to 
these are made and habits are formed in accordance with Christian 
standards and ideals, Christian character results, 

Christian Emphasis during the past year 
has been strengthened in the great number of projects undertaken by 
the various purpose and fellowship clubs. In these projects, young 
people have been helped to find reality in religion, The greater use of 
our Central Chapel and of Churches for Induction ceremonies has been a 
means of impressing young people with the Y.M.C.A. purpose. 

During the past year, members and staff 
of the Montreal Association have participated in various conferences, 
both on a city-wide and branch basis, where there has been a constant 
examination and appraisal of all our activities in relation to 
Association activities. Special Board Chapel services, noon-hour student 
Chapel services, series of Lenten services, Good Friday breakfasts, . 
Special Christmas and Easter Chapel services, observance of the Week of 
Prayer, Chapel Chats, Sunday Fireside Hours and Musicales, City-wide 
Hi-Y Rally, Business Men's Fellowship services, have all contributed 
directly towards the Association's stated purpose. Throughout the year, 
the Chapel in the Central Building has been open daily for private 
meditation and prayer. 


18, 


VI. MEMBERSHIP 


The total Association membership shows a slight 
increase over the previous year. The membership figures used in this 
report are those given in the Association Year Book, as of January lst, 
1950, Membership Income as at March 3lst, however, shoes a slight 
decrease over the previous year. The total paid membership was 15,977, 
as compared with 15,823 a year ago. The greatest increase has been in 
the enrollment of Sir George Williams College. Decrease in the member- 
ships of Notre Dame de Grace and Westmount Branches are attributed to 
revised system of membership recording. In Terminal Park Branch and 
in Point St. Charles Branch the loss of School facilities has resulted 
in a decrease as compared with the previous year's figures, Elsewhere, 
membership has remained on the same levels as in 1949. Membership 
as compared with the two previous years is shown as follows; 


1950 1949 1948 
Central Branch 4847 4976 4845 
Sir George Williams College 6439 5915 5938 
Southwestern Branch Lies 1128 1185 
Notre Dame de Grace Branch 915 1047. 763 
North Branch 676 603 1223 
Westmount Branch 613 694 524 
International Branch 738 736 610 
Lachine Branch 258 247 248 
Terminal Park Branch 244 261 - 
Montreal Hast Branch 268 poe 595 
Point St. Charles Branch 280 362 183 
Rosemount Branch 296 343 - 
16,697 16, 504 16,114 
Less duplications 720 (etal 950 
Grand Total 15,977 15,825 0, L64 
By Sex % % % 
Male 73525 1362 74.3 
- + Female 26.5 2648 2567 
By Age Groupings ee imate i Siting 
14 years and under 13.5 14,0 13.3 
15 = 17 years 11.9 15.5 15.6 
18 = 24 years 3866 5709 36.8 
25 = 29 years 16,4 2eel 15.4 
50 years and over 19.6 10.5 18.9 
100. TOO. 1006. 


The above figures do not include summer, skating, 
tennis, camp and other seasonal and short-term members, which number 


19. 


VI. MEMBERSHIP (cont'd) 


aimost 6,000 in the year, as well as many hundreds taking part in 
our community work on a non=fee basis, An estimated total of 39,000 
members and non-members participated in our activities during the 
past yeare 


VII. COMMUNITY-WIDE CO-OPERATION 


The Association has continued its efforts to 
work in close relationship with the Home. During the past year, this 
has been evident in the increased use of homes for club and group 
meetings, especially in the community branches such as Point St. 
Charles and Montreal Hast. In the latter branch alone, parents and 
friends of our members gave the use of private homes for 72 club 
meetingse Parent nights, personal interviews with parents, parent~ 
teen discussion groups, parents! committees and sponsoring groups have 
all strengthened a direct attempt to bring the programmes into close 
touch with the homese 

The Montreal Central Protestant School Board, 
at reasonable cost, has made facilities available for our community 
and branch extension programmes throughout the Metropolitan area, This 
co-operation has been most helpful in the non-equipment Community Work 
in districts where there are no Association buildings. On the other 
hand, the Y.iM.C.A. has endeavoured to supplement school programme 
through school-centred clubs, through the organization and operation 
of sports leagues and by the increased use of Association building 
facilities for school children, in playfield events and swimming 
instruction during school hours, 

With the Churches, relationships have also 
been mutually co-operative. Whenever possible, facilities have been 
made available for Church services, young people's meetings, socials 
and outings. Other groups which have enjoyed co-operative relationships 
with our Organization have been the many service clubs of Greater 
Montreal, the Montreal Council of Social Agencies, of which the Montreal 
Y.M.C Ae is a corporate member, the Religious Education Council, the 
Canadian Camping Association, the Y.W.C.A., the Youth Hostel Association, 
the YM=YWHA and the Quebec Federation of Youth Organizations. 

Use of facilities in the branch buildings 
were granted to 238 organizations during the year, 2,485 meetings were 
held, attended by an estimated 97,850 persons. 


VIII. 


206 


FINANCE AND PROPERTY 


The Annual Financial Campaign was held in 
November. On an objective of $164,000.00, the final audited 
returns amounted to $168,938.00, received from more than 8,800 
individuals and corporations, 

The Campaign was again under the able 
leadership of Mr. T.H. Atkinson as General Chairman, with Mr. D.W. 
Stewart as Chairman of Special Names for the third succesive year. 
Preliminary work on the teams organization was completed in early 
Fall, and for the first time, two separate divisions operated in 
Montreal East and Terminal Park, A working force of over 1,100 
persons and a particularly forceful publicity programme, combined 
to accomplish its objective within the two-week period, The 
Opening Dinner with Joseph McCulley, Deputy Commissioner of 
Penitentiaries, Ottawa, as the guest speaker, was a great help in 
launching this appeal, 

With continued heavy usage and the increasing 
age of Association buildings, maintenance is a constant problem. In 
addition to routine decorating and repairs, the following major 
items were completed, Drummond-Stanley Building - extensive 
renovations to the public washroom and toilet facilities, replacing 
obsolete equipment and installing additional new units wherever 
space would permit; investigation of a serious building settlement 
in the southwest corner of the Drummond Street Building was made 
during the year, the actual work to be carried out before the end 
of 1950; repairs to a defect in the fume chimney and subsequent 
replastering work in several Residence rooms which had been damaged 
by moisture. Westmount Branch - replacement of boilers and the 
floor in Assembly Hall and major redecorating work, North Branch - 
replacement of the hot water heater, and substantial redecorating. 
Southwestern Branch = replacement of the fire hose boxes, temporary 
repairs to wiring on tennis courts, Notre Dame de Grace Branch -~ 
substantial redecorating and repairs. Rosemount Branch - 
refurnishing quarters rented by us in Rosemount School, 

Kamp Kanawana = wharf replacement, 
replacement of truck and sewage pump. Camp Perrot = tent replace- 
ments and addition to equipment, 

The question of a change in the dates of the 
fiscal year of the Association was given careful study. It was 
decided, after a thorough-going review of all the implications, that 
effective January lst, 1951, the fiscal period should accord with the 
calendar year. This will bring the Montreal Y,M.C.A, into conformity 
with the majority of other units of the Movement in North America and 
facilitate greatly the compilation of statistical material for the 
annual year book. 


VIII. 


21. 


FINANCE AND PROPERTY (cont'd) 


: The sum of $1,000, was received during the 
year to establish » fund in memory of the late Frank E. Spence who 
made such an outstanding contribution to young men during his 

period of service as Residence Secretary of the Central Branch, The 
purpose of the Fund is to give temporary aid to needy young men in the 
residence in the Y.M.C.A. by means of loans, repayable when the 
borrower is able. 


PERSONNEL 


VOLUNTEER SERVICE; 

Volunteer service on the part of hundreds of 
loyal men and women, and older boys and girls with Christian 
motivation, has made possible the wide variety and volume of our 
YM.CoA. programme throughout Greater Montreal during the past year. 
Such service has included membership on Boards, Committees and Councils, 
leadership of Clubs and groups, instruction of classes, coaching of 
teams, giving lectures and addresses, leading discussions and counsel- 
ling. In addition to 209 volunteer club and group leaders, 2,264 men 
and women have served on Boards, Committees and Councils, whose 
aggregate attendance at meetings has been 13,755. 


SECRETARIAL STAFF: 

The Secretarial staff has undergone a number 
of changes throughout the past year: 

M.R.B. BOYES, after thirty-three years of 
service in the Y.M.C.A., retired as Residence Secretary of the Central 
Branch. 

JOSEPH T. BARRATT, formerly Executive Secretary 
of the Rosemount Branch, succeeded Mr. Boyes. 

JOHN W. BROWN resigned from the position of Young 
Adult Secretary of North Branch to join the staff of the Brownville 
Junction, Maine, Association. 

Miss RUTH CANNING, Bachelor of Physical and 
Health Education, University of Toronto, was appointed to the staff of 
the Notre Dame de Grace Branch as Physical Director in the Women's and 
Girls! Department, 

ALLAN T. DODDS, B.eA., resigned from the position 
of Boys' Work Secretary of Central Branch to join the staff of the 
St. Catharines Association as Program Secretary. 


IX, 


Gee 


PERSONNEL (cont'd) 


Miss THELMA GERSTMAN, a graduate of McGill 
School of Physical Education, was appointed to the North Branch staff 
as Director of Women's & Girls! Work, 

JR. HUPFIELD, B.A., formerly Program Secretary 
at Southwestern Branch, was appointed Executive Secretary of Rosemount 
Branch, succeeding J.T. Barratt. 

C.A. JUNKE, B.A., Sir George Williams College, 
was appointed Programme Secretary of Southwestern Branch, succeeding 
Mr. Hupfield. 

Miss ELEANOR McFADYEN resigned from Southwestern 
Branch as Girls! Work Secretary. 

WeH. SPHARMAN JR., BeSceP.E., a graduate of 
McGill School of Physical Education, was appointed to the Notre Dame de 
Grace Branch staff. 

LLOYD STAFFORD, B.Sc., of McGill University, 
was appointed to the staff of North Branch as Boys! Work Secretary. 

E.I. TAYLOR JR., BeA., formerly Boys! Work 
Secretary at the Quebec Y.M.C.As, joined the staff of Westmount prenen 
as Boys! Work Secretary. 

S.G. VATCHER, formerly on the staff of C.B.eC. 
and Y.M.C.A,. War Services, was appointed Programme Secretary of Central 
Branch. 

We have continued our policy of providing 
fellowships to students of Sir George Williams College and McGill 
University who intend to enter the Y.M.C.A. Secretaryship as a career. 
This policy was inaugureted at the close of World War I. Students were 
given work assignments at the following branches; 


Central - W. Reginald Smith: Edwin J. Dance: Hugh 
Cooke; James B, Mair: Gustave Oki and 
George Sinclair. 


Lachine - Murray E. Faulkner 

Point St. Charles = Clair Buckley 

North - John Ferguson and Robert Butler 

Montreal East - Gordon Hodge 

N,.D.G. ~ Keith A, Latter: M.D. Flower 

Southwestern - John L. Evans; Alan De McCann: Misses Diane 
Houston and Lois Hoey. 

Rosemount - Ronald J. Edwards 

Westmount = Cecil Woods; Wm. D. Johnstone: Robert D. 
Moffatt. 


Sir George Williams 
College - W. Herbert Jackson and H. Gordon McFarlane. 


IX. 


Xe 


236 


PERSONNEL (cont'd) 


Two probationary Fellowship students were 
assigned as follows; 


North - John Jackson 
International - Miss Sheila Gilbert 


Four members of the Montreal staff attended 
the Canadien Secretarial Training Conference held at Lake Couchiching 
August 20th = September lst. Mr. J.J. Beaton attended as one of the 
principal speakers. 

All members of the staff participated in city- 
wide study groups held during the Winter and Spring months, which 
concerned four areas of our Association work; Physical, Young Adult, 
Boys', Women's and Girls', 


NATIONAL COUNCIL 


The Montreal Association is a constituent 
member of the National Council of the Y.M.C.A. of Canada and, as such, 
has a direct share in its work. This includes making a contribution 
of $12,000.00 in support of its services. The Council has continued 
to render technical service to the local Association in many aspects of 
its work, including Boys', Physical and Young Adults! programme, This 
has involved visits to Montreal by members of the Council staff. 

Towards the close of the year, the headquarters of the Council was moved 
to 15 Spadina Road, Toronto, a building purchased with a view to 
providing permanent offices, The Annual Meeting held in St. Catharines, 
Ontario, February 10 = 12th, was well attended by lay and secretarial 
delegates from Associations across the Dominion and in addition to 
transacting the legal business of the Council, provided much information 
and inspiration, The fifth National Y.M.C.A. Youth Conference was held 
at Lake Couchiching in July 1949, delegates being present from Coast to 
Coast, 

The final meeting of the National Y.M.C.A. War 
Services Committee was held in Toronto in January. One of its last 
acts was to publish and circulate a history by Alan M. Hurst of the 
operations of the Canadian Y.M.C.A. War Services in Canada and Overseas 
during World War II. 

Our Organization co-operated in the arrangements 
for the Weston Canadian Tour of fifty British Boys, who spent two days 
in Montreal early in Auguste These boys were selected through the Boys! 
Clubs of Great Britain and from the Macclesfield electoral district, 
and this educational trip to Canada was financed by Mr. Garfield Weston. 


Xe 


XI 


246 


NATIONAL COUNCIL (cont'd) 


The boys visited Montreal, Ottawa, Toronto, London, Hamilton and 
Niagara Falls, finally spending two weeks at Camp Pine Crest, operated 
by the Toronto Y.M.C.A. in the Muskoka district. There, they were able 
to learn how to handle a canoe, cook over a fire, look after themselves 
in the woods and learn Canadian games, All who were brought into touch 
with this venture felt that the educational benefits were of immense 
value. In Montreal, the party stayed at the Central Branch, were taken 
on sight-seeing trips to the Dorval Airport and St. Helen's Island, and 
attended an open air concert at N.D.G. Branch, followed by a teen-age 
dance when the British boys were able to meet socially, Canadian young 
people. They also enjoyed a visit to the Mount St. Hilaire home of 
Brigadier Hamilton Gault. 


WORLD SERVICE 


For over sixty years, the Associations of 
North America have been building international understanding and good- 
will in more than thirty countries around the World. During the past 
year, the Montreal Association has maintained its traditional support 
of this work in an energetic manner, 

As a result of the urgent demands for help 
from every continent, the International Committee faced a substantial 
increase in its annual budget for the current year. The Montreal 
Association accepted as its goal an amount of $2,500.00 greater than that 
of the previous year, making our objective $25,000, towards a Canadian 
goal of $105,000. The final results for 1949 showed that North American 
Associations contributed $963,887, Canada $107,303., and Montreal 
$25,800. These were the largest amounts raised for World Service since 
1929. By units the results were as follows; 


1949 Objective Totals secured 


Metropolitan Board $16,475.00 $17,195.26 
Central Branch 2600.00 2,617¢33 
Sir George Williams College 1,000.00 907.28 
Westmount Branch 800.00 802 637 
North Branch 600.00 600.15 
International Branch 1,000.00 1,000.00 
Notre Dame de Grace Branch 1,210.00 1,264.42 
Southwestern Branch 500400 500,00 
Lachine Branch 800.00 301,05 
Mtl, East & Terminal Park 60.00 60-00 
Rosemount Branch 50.00 50.00 


(cont'd) 


XI. 


256 


WORLD SERVICE (cont'd) 
1949 Objective Totals Secured 


Point St. Charles Branch 50-00 15,00 
Camp Otoreke 230.00 537626 
Kamp Kanawana 100,00 94.65 
Camp Perrot 25-200 55 —2d 

$25, 000.00 $25,800.00 


One of the most important aspects of the 
World Service effort is the opportunity it affords in all our branches 
and camps for education concerning World affairs. Speakers, films, 
pamphlets and World Service Fellowship Secretaries help people to obtain 
a better understanding of their fellowemen. Such understanding is basic 
to the work of governments and governmental agencies, Two Association 
leaders spent three days each in Montreal this year ~ in April, Mr. 
Lyman Hoover, formerly Senior Secretary in China and recently appointed 
World Service Executive Secretary for the City of New York; in December, 
Mr, Earle R. Buckley, Physical Education Secretary for Chinay and 
Dr, John Re. Mott who addressed a group On progress being achieved in 
the World Council of Churches, Five different films were used at 
intervals during the year with various groups. 

Mre Pyun Syun Ok, General Secretary of the 
National Council of Y.MeCeAets of Korea, spent two months in Montreal 
studying Association methods, Following the close of the war, in 
which he endured two years of imprisonment at the hands of the Japanese, 
Mre Pyun came to North America for further training and returned to his 
home in September. His friends in Montreal were greatly shocked, in 
March 1950, to hear of his sudden death following a surgical operation 
approximately one year after his visit to Canada. 

Mre JW. Beaton represented the International 
Committee at their urgent request, on a special mission to the Y.M.C.A. 
in Rio de Janeiro, to the South American Federation of Y.M.C.A.'s with 
headquarters at Montevideo, and in fraternal visits to other Associations 
in Brazil, Venezuela, Argentina, Chile and Perue Letters of apprecia- 
tion have been received by the Montreal Association from those concerned, 
indicating the important assistance which Mr, Beaton was able to render 
in connection with some complicated local situations requiring immediate 
attention. On his return, he spoke to many groups in Montreal and 
elsewhere, bringing fresh information regarding the great continent to 
the south, and particularly the progress of the Association Movements 
there. 


XII. 


xiTS, 


266 


WORLD'S ALLIANCE 


The National Council of Canada, one of twenty- 
eight National Movements federated in the World's Alliance of 
YeM.CeAe's, has in recent years assumed a more adequate share of the 
financial support of the world body. This amounts to approximately 
5% of the annual World Service contributions. The function of the 
Alliance is to deal with requests for help from unoccupied fields, 
to investigate conditions and weigh relative needs, and to provide 
a medium for concerted action on the part of the world brotherhood. 

Members of the Montreal Association have 
acquired an increasing understanding of the work of this Organization 
in the past two years through the quarterly "World Communique", which 
is received by more than 700 readers. The world=wide scope of Y.M.C.A. 
work is revealed by well-written stories and striking photographs 
which have made it a greatly appreciated Association publication. 

Mr. Jeile Beaton attended the Consultative 
Conference on World Communism and Ecumenism held at Castle Mainau, 
Germany, June 30th = July 4th. Following this important gathering, 

Mr. Beaton represented the Canadian Y.M.C.A. Movemert at a meeting 

of the Executive of the World's Alliance, July 5th = 12th. As Canada's 
representative, he was able to contribute a point of view based upon 
the experience, ideals and convictions of the Canadian Association 
Movement with regard to the present tense World situation, particularly 
as it affects the Christian forces, Mre Beaton was able, in turn, to 
bring back to Canadian audiences an impression and interpretation of 
conditions in Europe and elsewhere, 


OBITUARIES 


We record with deep regret the passing of 
Mr. AeDe Anderson and Mre NeB.e Walton, both of whom have been closely 
related to the work of the Association. 

Mre AeDe Anderson was elected to the 
Metropolitan Board of Directors in 1919, after serving on the Central 
Board of Management during World War I. In 1922 he was elected 
Honorary Treasurer, a position which he held until 1932. During that 
period, the Building end Expansion Campaign was carried through. In 
1944, he was elected to the Advisory Board, on which body he served 
until his death. He has rendered loyal and faithful service to the 
Association. 

Mr. N.B. Walton, C.M.G., was appointed to the 
Metropolitan Board of Directors in 1944, and had been a member of the 


XIII. 


XIV. 


276 


OBITUARIES (cont'd) 


Executive Committee since 1946. We are sincerely appreciative of 
the helpful service to the youth of Montreal which he has rendered 
as a loyal supporter of our work, 

The deep and abiding interest of these 
friends in the welfare of youth is a cause of great satisfaction and 
thankfulness. 


APPRECIATION 


We are once again mindful of the fact that 
many factors have combined to weave the Association's work and influence 
more permanently into the warp and woof of the life of Greater Montreal, 

We are deeply grateful to all officers, 
members of Boards and Committees, and to hundreds of volunteer leaders, 
whose interest and support have contributed to the success of the 
year's programme; also to the daily and weekly press, and the radio 
stations for their generous support in publicizing our programmes for 
youths; to the Churches, Schools and Service Clubs for their interest 
end supports; to the Montreal Council of Social Agencies; to the 
Railways and other corporations; to the Young Women's Christian 
Association and many other co-operating organizations; to the staff 
of secretaries and others who have made the work of this year a vital 
Christian influence in the lives of thousands of Montreal's young 
people. Above all, we are in humility, grateful to God for His 
blessing and power. 


CONCLUS ION 


In closing this record, may we remind you 
of the plans which are going forward for the observance of the one 
hundredth anniversary of the founding of the Association in North 
America in 1851. This historic event took place in St. Helen's Street 


_ Baptist Church in Montreal on November 25th, 1851. The International 


Committee is planning to observe the event by holding a Convention in 
Cleveland in June 1951, at which one of the speakers will be the 
President of the United States, and it is hoped the Prime Minister of 
Canada will also deliver an address. The National Council of the 
YM.C.Aes of Canada has a committee at work making plans in connection 
with the observance of the anniversary by the Associations throughout 
Canadae 


CONCLUSION (cont'd) 


It is hoped that an announcement will be 
made in the near future concerning the manner in which the event will 
be marked in the life of ow own city and Association, Mr. Harold C. 
Cross has made steady progress in writing the history of the Montreal 
Association during the past hundred years, The Centennial Celebration 
may well mark enother epoch in our history, and will enable us to look 
back over the past and pay tribute to those who have brought the 
Association to its present high place of influence among the youth of 
this Metropolitan citye Much more important, perhaps, will be the 
plans which will be announced looking toward the Second Century. 


Respectfully submitted, 


iano 


J.J. BEATON, 
General Secretary 


5 Tana! we: A 
4 Sl Ct Ay ' 


\ 


STATISTICAL RECORD FOR 1949 


VOLUNTEER SERVICE 
Volunteer group leaders 
On Boards, Committees & Councils 
Attendance at Meetings 


HEALTH AND PHYSICAL FITNESS 
Gymnasium activities 
Swimming, Classes, Individuals 
Athletic Events " 7 
Persons taught to swim 
Swimming and Life Saving Tests 
Teams, Leagues, Rinks and Playgrounds 


wt 


SOCIAL RECREATION 
Dramatic and Musical Events 
Crafts and Hobbies 
Dances, Parties and Social Affairs 
Motion Pictures, Indoors and Outdoors 


Total Attendance 
wt nt 


! 
.U 


RELIGIOUS EDUCATION 
eetings, Study Groups, Chapel 


SUMMER CAMPS 
Kanawana for Boys = No. 
Otoreke for Young People 
Perrot for Boys and Girls 
Total Camper Days all camps 
City Day Camps (eleven) 


of Campers 
u " 


" " 


PERSONAL PROBLEMS 
umber of Interviews 
Persons placed in employment 


CLUBS AND GROUPS 
Number of Clubs and Interest Groups 
Meetings: Boys, Girls, Young People, 
Total attendance 
Total enrollment in all groups, classes, 
Teams, Councils etc, 


INFORMAL EDUCATION 
Lectures, Forums, Study Groups etc, 
Trips, Outings, etc, 
Libraries, Book circulation 
Use of Reading Rooms 


FORMAL EDUCATION 
Sir George Williams College - No. of Students 
Noe of Classes 514 


COMMUNITY SERVICE 

~ Ose of YF Buildings by outside Organizations 
No. of times 
Estimated attendance of nonemembers 


PERSONS 


209 
2 264 


Total participation 
tt 


2,276 
1,577 


357 
1,063 
329 


1,577 


596 


86 


6,439 


No. of Student hours 


238 
25485 


ATTENDANCE 


13,775 


80, 061 
126,855 
10, 070 


112,428 


3,323 
26,315 
72,096 
32,975 


12,956 


26,281 


10,742 


35,583 


24,724 


29,489 
79339 
41,702 
190,148 


1,169,755 


97,850 


P. S. ROSS & SONS 


May 25, 1950. 


BOO LT. ORs FP ORS 


The Young Men's Christian Association of Montreal, 
Montreal. 


We have made an examination of the attached Balance Sheet 
of The Young Men's Christian Association of Montreal as at March 31, 
1950 and of the related Statement of Income and Expenditure for the 
year. In connection therewith we made a test examination of the 
books of account and financial records of the Metropolitan Office 
and of the reports from the branches and from the Residence Building 
which are kept on the file at the Metropolitan Office but we did not 
make a detailed audit of the transactions of the Association for 
the year. We have received all the information and explanations 
we have recuired. 


The inventories of books, foodstuffs and sundry supplies 
have been certified to be correct by the officers of the Association. 


In our opinion, based on the examinetion made, the attached 
Balance Sheet and related Statement of Income and Expenditure correctly 
set forth the financial position of the Association as at March 31, | 
1950 and the result of its operations for the year ended on that date, 
according to the best of our information and the explanations given to us 
and as shown by the accounting records examined by us. 


P. S. ROSS & SONS 


Chartered Accountants 


THE YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 


STATEMENT OF INCOME FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 1950 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS COLLEGE: 
(Revenue from Tuition Fees and Receipts from other sources) 


GENERAL PROGRAMME INCOME: 
(Receipts from Recreational Departments and other 
programme activities including Camps) 


SERVICE FEATURES INCOME: 
(Revenue from Residence Rooms and Receipts from Food 
and other Service Features) 


WORLD SERVICE: 
(Subscriptions to World Service) 


MEMBERSHIP FEES COLLECTED: 


SUBSCRIPTION INCOME: 
(Contributions from Corporations and Individuals 
during the Annual Campaign) 


ENDOWMENT FUND INCOME: 


MISCELLANEOUS INCOME: 
(Receipts from Other Sources Not Detailed Above) 


Excess of Expenditure Over Income for the Year 
Ended March 31, 1950 Transferred to Deficit 


$ 442,117.46 


133,072.95 


4.52, 266.18 


25,800.00 
108,102.27 


176,545.56 


6,918.41 


5,932.71 


$1, 350,755.54 


8,074.16 
$1, 358,829.70 


nN 


Oo 


EOE 


THE YOUNG WEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 


STATEMENT OF EXPENDITURE FOR THE YEAR ENDED wWARCA 31, 1 


EDUCATIONAL: 

(Expenditure for the Sir George Williams College 
educational work including a proportion of the cost 
of operating the space occupied in Drummond-Stanley 
Building. 


GENERAL PROGRAMME: 
(Expenditure which cannot be directly allocated to 
divisions representing general programme of branches 
including recreational departments and camps) 


SERVICE FEATURES: 
(Direct expenditure for operation of residence rooms, 
food services and other service features) 


WORLD SERVICES - REMITTANCES: 


GENERAL ADMINISTRATION ; 

(Expenses of centralized accounting and auditing of the 
branches of the Association Metropolitan programme and 
business administration and contribution to National 
Council for general promotion of Y.M.C.A. activities 
throughout Canada) 


BRANCH ADMINISTRATION: 
(Expenditure for desk service and general supervision 
of activities) 


BOYS! DIVISION: 
(Direct expenditure for the boys' division programme) 


OTHER DIVISIONS: 
(Direct expenditure for the young men's,girls', ladies! 
and senior men's division programme) 


MEMBERSAIP PROMOTION: 
(Advertising of Y.M.C.A. activities and secretarial and 
clerical expense of interviewing prospective members 
and following up renewal of old memberships) 


PLANT: 

(Rental for premises not owed, expenditures for maintenance, 
heat, light, taxes and insurance, for buildings owned by 
Association and provision for Property Reserve, Sir George 
Williams College excluded) 


e) 


$ 468,628.38 . 


157,469.41 


226,517.56 * 


25,800.00 


76,527.46 


71,700.69 


16,528.38: 


25,095.69" 


9,973.69 


250,588.44 


$1,358,829.70 


= 


THE YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 


BALANCE SHEET AS AT MARCH 31, 1950 


ASSETS 


Fixed Assets: 

Land, Buildings and Furnishings 
Drummond Street 
Westmount Branch 
North Branch 
Southwestern Branch 
Notre Dame de Grace Branch 
Torm of Mount Royal 
Kamp Kanawana 
Camp Otoreke 
Camp Perrot 
Bourret Street and Alepin Avenue 
Miscellaneous 


Assets held for Endowment Funds: 
Investment Securities at Cost 
Cash in Special Bank Account 


Assets held for Sir George Williams College 


Building and Scholarship Funds: 
Investment Securities 

Accrued Interest on Investments 
Cash in Bank 


Deferred Charges: 
Insurance, Taxes and Sundry Expenses 
Special Taxes Payable May 1, 1950 to 
January 31, 1967 


Current Assets: 

Cash on Hand and in Banks 

Accounts Receivable less Reserve for 
Doubtful Accounts 

Residence Rentals Receivable less 
Reserve for Doubtful Accounts 

Accrued Interest Receivable 

Inventory of Books, Foodstuffs and 
Sundry Supplies 


$1,640,027.61 
105,660.73 
100,542.50 
238,893.46 
265,546.84 
5,663.91 
56,548.30 
42,100.00 
35,459.76 
25,931.40 
pan TE, 


143 382.28 
e542. 39 


1,635.44 
5.37 
746.31 


17,801.16 


463.65 


330,903.38 
49,960.67 


1,947.37 
1,028.75 


33.4137.21 


$2,516,668.61 


144,924.61 


2,387.12 


18,264.81 


416,977.38 
$3,099, 222.53 


THE YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 


BALANCE SHEET AS AT MARCH 31, 1950 


PIARTLIT TS S 


Capital: 
Capital Account 
Legacies and Bequests 
Endowment Funds 


D.A. Budge Memorial Fund $108 , 800.73 
D.A. Budge Endowment Fund 1,000.00 
Other Endowment Funds 30, 338.61 


$140 139.34 
Add: Net profit on sales of 
Investment Securities to date__ 4,785.27 
Sir George Williams College 


Building Fund B37 7k 
Scholarship Fund 2,049.38 
Less: Deficit 
Balance at April 1, 1949 5,821.24 
Add? Excess of Expenditure 
over Income for the Year 
ended March 31, 1950. 8,074.16 


Mortgage on Alepin Avenue Houses 


Property Reserves: 
Drummond Street 
Camp Otoreke 
Kamp Kanawana 
Camp Perrot 


Bourret Street and Alepin Avenue Houses 


Depreciation 1,588.89 
Operating balance to date 632.84 


$1,980 ,969.'70 
175,822.12 


144,924.61 


2,387.12 
$2, 304,103.55 


13,895.40 


452,284.19 
5,846.12 
1,442.74 

800.00 

460,373.05 


2see1-73 


Special taxes payable May 1, 1950 to January 31, 1967 


Unearned Income: 
Prepaid Tuition 
Prepaid Room Rents 


Current Liabilities: 
Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities 
Sundry Deposits 


Financial Campaign of November 1949 
Receipts carried forward to period subsecuent 
to March 31, 1950 


85,116.08 
1,929.60 


81,517.63 
8,018.08 


$2,290,208.15 


8,506.05 


1,62, 594.78 
463.65 


87,045.68 
89,535.71 


160,868.51 
$3,099, 222.53 


le 
26 


Se 


de 
De 
Se 


Te 


Be 


De 


10. 


lle 


126 


AGENDA 
THE NINETY-NINTH ANNUAL MEETING 
OF THE 
YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 
MONDAY, JUNE 19TH, 1950, AT 5:00 P.M. 
MEMBERS" SOCIAL ROOM, Y.M.CeA., 1441 DRUMMOND STREET 
MONTREAL 


CHAIRMAN. .esccsevcceccceeeUOH B. FROSST, 
VICE=FPRESIDENT, YMCA 
OF MONTREAL 
DEVOTIONAL EXERCISES ...ceccccccccccvecccccscssescoeeCHARLES K, CALHOUN 
CHATRMAN'S FBINUES Hah Wa se pile’ 6 ose! wile ee areca. e166 wie ¢ Buea eee ate ore eate OTE Be FROSST 
ADOPTION OF THE MINUTES OF THE LAST ANNUAL MEETING; 


MOVED BY; 
SECONDED BY; 


REPORT OF THE HONORARY TREASURER. sesccccccsccesscevets DENTON LEWIS 
REPORT OF THE NOMINATING COMMITTER .cccccecccecesvceeetANbS H, WEBB 
REPORT OF THE GENERAL SECRETARY ececccccccecccvescceeetde We BEATON 
MOTION TO ADOPT REPORTS: 


MOVED BY: 
SECONDED BY: 


APPOINTMENT OF AUDITORS; 


MOVED BY; 
SECONDED BY: 


MOTION TO MAKE AMENDMENTS AND CHANGES IN THE CONSTITUTION OF THE YOUNG: 
MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL, THESE CHANGES HAVING BEEN 
APPROVED BY THE METROPOLITAN BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND SUBSEQUENTLY POSTED 
IN THE BRANCHES FOR A PERIOD OF NOT LESS THAN THIRTY DAYS PRIOR TO THIS 
MEETING: 


MOVED BY; 
SECONDED BY: 


SUCH OTHER BUSINESS AS MAY PROPERLY COME BEFORE THE MERTING 

ANNOUNCEMENT: BRIEF MEETINGS OF METROPOLITAN BOARD AND CORPORATION OF 
SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS COLLEGE AT THE CLOSE OF THIS ANNUAL 
MEET ING 


ADJOURNMENT 


REPORT 
OF 
THE NOMINATING COMMITTEE 
TO THE 99TH ANNUAL MEETING OF 
THE YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF 
MONTREAL, 
MONDAY, JUNE 19TH, 1950. 


Mre President: 


Your Committee, having carried out the constitutional requirements in 
connection with its duties, hereby nominates the following active 
members to become Directors of the Association for a period of three 
years, ending December 3lst, 1953: 


TH. Atkinson HI. Ross 
W.H. Howard, KeC. 0B. Thornton 
Eric A. Leslie L.W. Townsend 
JeGe McConnell F,B, Walls 
JeDe McKeown C.W. Webster 
B.W. Roberts ~ 


Your Committee also wishes to report that at the last meeting of the 
Metropolitan Board of Directors, the following were elected members of 
the Advisory Board for a period of three years as follows; 


D.Ae Campbell FR. Phelan 
S.G. Dobson I.P. Rexford 
RAC, Henry R.O. Stevenson 
C.C. Holland AoE. Walford 
George Lyman James Wilson 
C.M. McEwen B.C. Wood 

Guy Tombs - 


Respectfully submitted, 


