REPORT 


TUNG MEN'S HIST ASSOCIATION, 


1864. 


REPORT 


OF THE 


Montreal Young Men's Christian Association, 


ADOPTED AT THE 


ANNUAL MEETING, 


HELD ON 


TUESDAY EVENING, 22nd NOVEMBER, 1864. 


OFFICERS FOR THE YEAR 1865. 


Presrpent —J. R. DOUGALL. 


VicE-PRESIDENTS : 


C. R. BLACK, D. BENTLEY, 
J. A. BAZIN, T. JAMES CLAXTON. 


Secretary — JAMES STEWART. 
TREASURER — JAMES ROSS. 


COMMITTEE : 

T. LEEMING, _ LL, CUSHING, Jon., 
F. E. GRAFTON, JOHN MURPHY, 
A. H. CAMERON, J. R. MIDDLEMISS, 
THOMAS HOBSON, E. THOMPSON, 
Dr. SQUIRE, W. REID, 
Dr. EVANS, B.A., J. L. MORRIS, 
J. McDOUGALL, T. AUBIN, 

| E. JUDGE. 


MONTREAL— PRINTED BY JAMES STARKE & CO. 


THE FOLLOWING ARE 


STANDING COMMITTEES 


FOR THE ENSUING YEAR:— 


MISSION. 
OO. Rt. BLACK. oF es hula Chairman. 
J. Murpnry, L. CusHine, Jun., 
Dr. Squire, J. McDovuGatt, 


A. H. Camrron. 


LECTURES, CLASSES, AND MEETINGS. 


F. E. GRarron, ............. Chairman. 
T. Hogson, T. LeEMIne, 
Dr. Evans, E. THompson, 


JAMES STEWART. 


ROOMS AND LIBRARY. 


J. R. MippLemiss, ......:... Chairman. 
THOMAS AUBIN, J. L. Morris. 
FINANCE. 
aD, POBMTCET, 2 eek eee Chairman. 
J. A. Bazin, W. Rep, 
E. JuDGE. 
MEMBERSHIP. 
THOMAS HOBSON,............ Chairman. 


MISSIONARIES—Rev. C. P. Warson and Mr. Jonn Muuutn. 


ASSISTANT SECRETARY & LIBRARIAN—ALFRED SANDHAM. 


REPORT. 


THE thirteenth year of the history of this Association 
has been undoubtedly the most important it has yet 
passed through, and we are called on to renew our 
thanks to God for his continuance to us of those outward 
signs of favour which have followed us through the past 
two years, our sphere and means of usefulness being 
constantly enlarged. Your Committee feel that they now 
lay down a heavier weight of responsibility than they 
took up twelve months ago. 

We arrange our Report as usual according to the 
standing committees, among whom our labours have 
been divided, beginning with the important depart- 
ment of 


CITY MISSIONS. 


These were, during the winter, under the care of 
Mr. W. C. Menzies, who leaving the city in spring, was 
succeeded by the former Chairman, Mr. C. C. Macdou- 
gall. The mission work divides itself into the following 
departments :— 


Cotracre MEETINGS.—Two years ago twenty-four 
men were set apart to this work, by whom the city was 
divided into six districts. The importance of this means 
of usefulness being then learned, it was entered upon 
this year with a much larger force, more than fifty of 
our members volunteering at the annual meeting, The 
city was carefully divided into thirteen permanent dis- 
tricts, and a map, on which these are neatly traced, now 
hangs in the rooms, the gift of Mr. Lovell. Each district 


4 


was assigned to a chairman, with two or three assistants, 
the members of the Mission Committee taking the 
general supervision of several districts each. By-laws 
were also framed for the guidance of the work which 
will be found at the end of this Report. Only by such 
a complete system as this, for which we are greatly 
indebted to Mr. Menzies, could great efficiency be 
secured from such an agency. As itis, the seed: has 
been but weakly sown, yet we look with confidence for 
an eternal harvest. 


District No. 1, (Griffintown, eastern part) was under 
the care of Mr. John Macdougall, assisted more or less 
by a dozen brethren, four or five being present at each 
meeting. Two weekly meetings were maintained till 
April 6th, one averaging over twenty in attendance, the 
other about fifteen. Visiting was kept up and some 
good was manifest. 


District No. 2,(Griffintown, western part) was under 
Mr. James Ross, who reported encouragingly of two 
weekly meetings, maintained with the assistance of | 
several of the brethren, the attendance varying from six 
to twenty-one. | 


District No. 3, (Point St. Charles) was superintended 
by Mr. Cushing, with some assistants, who carefully 
visited the district, and maintained two meetings. 
One of these was in the vicinity of the Sugar-house, 
where they were informed by the residents that there 
were scarcely any Protestants. On examination, how- 
ever, they found seventeen families within half a mile 
of their centre, some of which were visited many times, 
the work being by no means devoid of interest. Mr. 
Cushing writes in January, -“ a member of committee 
called on a family of whom litile appeared to be known 
by the neighbours, and while conversing on the object 
of the visit, the mother appeared much affected, and at 
last burst into tears, exclaiming, ‘Sir, you are the first 
person who has spoken a kind word to us since we 
came to the country.”” The whole family earnestly 
entreated him to call again. They have since regularly 
attended the meeting. This meeting died away when 


5 


the roads became impassable in Spring but the other at 
St. Matthew’s Church continued to increase, and those 
attending urged its continuance through the summer, 
which was provided for by the Association, so that it 
has been kept up vigourously ever since. About twelve 
brethren laboured more or less in this district during 
the winter. 


District No. 4, (St. Joseph Street West) under Mr. 
Turnbull maintained one meeting, which was continued 
under Mr. Cameron throughout the summer. Although 
below the average in number, this meeting has been a 
very interesting one, and several persons have acknow- 
ledged faith in Christ for the first time at it. 


District No. 5, (from Mountain Street to St. David's 
Lane) under Messrs. Vollar and Blachford, was found 
impracticable by the Committee. 


District No. 6, (from St. David's Lane to McGill 
Street) under Mr. Henry Sandham, maintained two 
meetings of great interest. Several of those habitually 
attending resolved openly on a change of life. The 
numbers gradually increased from 6 to 21. 


District No. 7, (The City Proper bounded by McGill, 
Craig and St. Denis Streets) under the joint charge of 
Messrs. C. R. Black and J. D. Dougall, maintained one 
meeting at the corner of St. Paul and Bonsecours Streets, 
and another in the House of Refuge, Fortification Lane, 
at the latter of which there attended an aged man, who, 
during February, was called to his account—it is hoped 
to his rest—at the age of 102. 


District No. 8, (Aylmer Street to St. Chas. Barromée) 
was under the care of Mr. C. C. Macdougall. A 
meeting, at which at times a deep interest was manifest, 
was held in the St. Andrew’s Home, and another was 
started by Mr. Massey, in the basement of the Dorches- 
ter Street French Presbyterian Church, which became 
of sufficient importance to warrant its continuance 
through the summer at a small cost to the Association. 


District No. 9, (St. Chas. Barromée to St. Denis 
Street) Mr. Thomas Robertson, Chairman. In this dis- 
trict two meetings were held, and hand bills were cir- 
culated as a means of increasing the attendance. The 
success of this has been imperfectly reported. 


District No. 10, (Mile End Road) was found 
under the efficient charge of a Mission of the Canada 
Presbyterian Church. 


District No. 11, (St. James’ and St. Mary’s Wards, 
north of Dorchester Street) afforded no field, being in- 
habited by French Roman Catholics. | 


District No, 12, (St. Denis Street to Wolfe) was 
managed by Mr. Jones, with assistance from a large 
number of soldiers and others. Two meetings, one 
of which was composed of very poor people, were kept 
up and blessed to those who led them, and to all appear- 
ance to those who attended also. 


District No. 13, (Wolfe Street to St. Marys Gate) 
Mr. Kneeshaw, Chairman. One of last winter’s meetings 
was renewed, and two others begun, the first being after- 
wards left in the hands of Mr. Millen, who had com- 
menced it. The last started, which was near the toll- 
gate, it was thought proper to continue through the 
summer. This intention, however, failed, through want 
of labourers. 

Twenty meetings in all were carried on last winter, 
four of which lasted through the summer. An average 
attendance of fifteen would give a total of over five 
thousand. Thus has the work been “earnestly carried 
on; some of the brethren having had to walk twice a 
week, in foul weather and fair, two and three miles to 
their posts. The results are in the kind hands of God. 
The benefit to those engaged in them has been most 
apparent; some of them have already devoted them- 
selves more entirely to ministerial or missionary labour, 
while none, we think, have been unblessed. A new 
and larger draft is now called for. The field is large 
enough for many more, and as those who have wrought 
hitherto pass into more extended spheres, younger men 
are wanted to fill their places. 


THe NAZARETH STREET MEEtTING.—The Griffin- 
town Sabbath Evening Meeting, formerly held in Col- 
lege Street, was, at the beginning of the Society’s year, 


7 


transferred to the more commodious and more central 
room now occupied by it, at the corner of Nazareth and 
Wellington Streets. This meeting is under a special 
Committee of twelve, who have now for two years 
visited in connection with it the whole of Griflintown ; 
that district being regularly divided among its members, 
one or two of whom have had to leave Sabbath-School 
work to assist and superintend the visitors, who, as oppor- 
tunity offers, read and pray with the families to which 
they go, paying special attention to the sick. The chil- 
dren’s penny savings scheme continues on Thursday 
evenings. The Second Annual Service was held on 
Christmas Eve, in connection with that of the Sunday 
School assembling in the same building. The work 
was discontinued for a month or two during the sum- 
mer, but was resumed again in September. The atten- 
dance has been from sixty to eighty, the majority bemg 
children. One to two hundred calls are made monthly, 
chiefly for the distribution of tracts, the number of 
which distributed during the year may be roughly esti- 
mated at 3,300. An attempt is now being made to get 
a small collection of second-hand books for the benefit 
of the poor classes, who have begun to look to these 
rooms as the centre of all the good they get. 


Sartor’ Tract Distrrpsurors.—Mr. Kneeshaw, 
the Chairman of this interesting work, speaks of a falling 
off in its usefulness. The field is not so large, nor have 
the workmen been so numerous and zealous. “ We 
need,” he says, “a few more labourers and more earnest- 
ness in our work.” The prayer meeting has not been 
regularly held. There have been, however, 44,700 tracts 
scattered on the four winds in eight different languages, 
and the Lord can send a good blessing with them. 


SEAMEN’s Misston.—The waves of the sea of com- 
merce roll upon our shores, teeming with souls of men 
who are with us as it were for a moment, and then 


8 


recede into the infinite ocean, perhaps to return no 
more. These are the blood of the world which in its 
semi-annual pulsations flows out into every artery bearing 
the work of one country to its use in another. How 
important to the world’s welfare that the blood, which 
is the life, should bea pure and holy stream! How 
different is the fact! To cast salt for the healing of the 
waters into each successive wave, has been the aim of 
the Seamen’s Mission, which has been carried on by Mr. 
Massey for eleven years. When thiswork commenced, it 
took the place in the field vacated by the late devout 
Mr. Osgood, whose name and memory live in the hearts 
of thousands, whose lives once were quickened by his 
faith and quiet zeal, and whose many prayers for a per- 
manent provision for the seamen coming to this port, 
are now beginning to be answered. When our Associa- 
tion took up the field, a year or two after his death it was 
the only organized agency at work for the spiritual good 
of the seamen: we rejoice to know that there are now 
many workers together for the same end, and yet the field 
is far from supplied. 

Fewer than usual old faces were met with last 
spring. Hach vessel was visited once, twice or thrice 
by the missionary, who, in addition to the work of the 
tract distributors above mentioned scattered a large 
quantity of tracts and bibles with some good counsels, 
the bibles being sometimes marked at certain passages 
with the request that such should be read. 

“Considering the comparatively small number of 
vessels this season,” Mr. Massey says, “our Bethel meet- 
ings were never better attended. Iam constantly meet- 
ing (he says) with both sailors and landsmen who have. 
received spiritual good at our meetings in past years. A 
young man, a sailor in the hospital, informed me the other 
day with delight that he heard me at our Bethel meeting 
four years ago, and told me what I said in the application, 
which I remembered well. Hesaid we gave him a tract 


9 


entitled Noah’s Carpenters and Rest for the Weary. He 
took them with him every voyage since, but was wreck- 
ed last Spring and lost them. He often read the one and 
sung the other as well as he could.” 

« The business of crimping,” says our missionary in 
May “appears to be doing immense mischief at Quebec, 
and it also most seriously affects the work here, and per- 
plexes the captains no little. As thismatter has been under 
the investigation of your committee, we append at the 
close of this report a statement made by the Revd. Mr. 
Sykes, of Quebec, at the anniversary of the Sailors’ 
Institute, an account which altogether corresponds with 
the information gathered by Mr. Massey.” It may be 
added here that the matter has been taken up by the 
Montreal Board of Trade, with the promise that it will 
not be allowed to drop. 


Tum Sartore’ InstTIuTE, founded and chiefly sup- 
ported and managed by a member of this Association, 
sprung out of our seamen’s mission, and now cordially 
co-operates with us by working more especially for the 
temporal benefit of sea-faring men. 


Suips’ LIBRARIES were made up for several vessels by 
the Strickland Society, of Mrs. Lay’s Seminary, and 
placed by Mr. Massey in each case in charge of a pious 
captain or mate, who promised to act as librarian and 
report. The following note from the mate of the ship 
“ Maid of Orleans,’ will serve to encourage those who 
desire to carry out this mode of usefulness :-— 


Mr. MASSEY, 


Drar Sir, 

I have much pleasure in informing you, that the books you 
put on board last voyage have been very much read and highly appreci- 
ated by the men and boys on board; and they were greatly delighted 
when I told them that they were sent by some young ladies, who were 
kind enough to take an interest in sailors, and who had their spiritual 
welfare at heart. 

I think by the grace of God these little books may be the means 
of awakening some of them to a thought of their future state, and of 


B 


id) 


what it is to be. * * * * It will be some time before we are back, 
but I shall write you a few lines to let you know where we are, and how 
we are getting along. 


Believe me ever to be, 
Yours truly, 
JAS. HOURSTON, 
Mate of the “ Maid of Orleans.” 


KMIGRANTS.—The most interesting class of emi- 
grants who have passed through here this year have 
been the Germans and Norwegians on their way to the 
west. Very many of them are protestants, and very 
intelligent. The supply of Danish tracts to be obtained 
is not equal to the demand. “They are always,” says 
Mr. Massey, “so glad and so grateful to get them. 
They generally commence reading at once, some stand- 
ing, some sitting in groups, and they express their thanks 
in every possible way. Most of them give me a most 
hearty shake of the hand. Only a few days ago, a fine 
looking young woman expressed her gratitude in lan- 
guage which could not be misunderstood. Pointing to 
the morning sun, she turned a large key which she had 
in her hand, and then with a pleasant smile she touched 
me on the shoulder, indicating, as I believed, that she 
hoped I should have an abundant entrance into heaven 
above the shining sun. This was done in the presence 
of a group of them, who all appeared to understand and 
concur in her wish, The thing affected me at the time, 
and I believe I shall not soon forget 1t.” 


SOLDIERS.—The work among the military has been 
somewhat curtailed since the changes made in the 
garrison this year, owing to the stricter religious super- 
vision of some of the regiments now here ; and among 
those to whom access has been obtained, there has been 
less success visible than last year, yet Mr. Millen hag 
seen some good as the result of his labouring, and Mr. 
Jardine has on Sundays distributed 30,000 tracts. 


11 


GrnrRaL Hosprtanu.—tThis Institution is now well 
visited. Between missionaries, bible-women and Christ- 
ian ladies, there is generally some one there ministering 
to the spiritual wants of a class much more careless than 
one would expect to find in an abode of the sick, but 
those who are thoughtless in life very generally con- 
tinue thoughtless to the last. Mr. Massey brings the 
following testimony concerning the usefulness of the 
Sabbath afternoon meeting, which has been maintained 
there by him throughout the year. “ Mr. ———— said 
he was very anxious to see me, being apprehensive that 
he Should not live to return home, as he lived 150 miles 
away. He requested me to write to his family. He 
desired also to say that he had been greatly benefitted 
by my labours in the institution. The patients spoke 
freely to him about the state of their minds, and he felt 
I ought to know for my encouragement. He knew four 
men, (and one lately dead) who were in a penitent and 
serious state of mind through the instrumentality of my 
Sabbath meetings. One of them had wept hours in his 
presence, and two of them might then be said to be ina 
hopeful state, one going 250 miles east, and the other 
400 miles west to their homes, and taking with them, it 
is hoped, the love of Christ in their hearts. I was doing, 
by the blessing of God, much more good than I knew of.” 
Mr. Millen has also a meeting in the Hospital on Tuesday. 


Tur Jain, THE FEMALE REFUGE AND OTHER INSTI- 
TUTIONS have been constantly visited by one or both 
missionaries. Among the sinning classes in the first two — 
of these, there is generally a great deal of willingness to 
beguile the slow hours by giving earnest heed to the 
missionaries counsels, but among them the laborer must 
generally walk by faith rather than by sight, for seldom 
does he see any real result from hislabours Mr. Millen 
has held one or two meetings weekly in the Old Men’s . 
Home, Night Refuge, St. Andrew’s home, and Young 
Women’s Home. 


12 


and 


Hovse to Hovusz Work.—Messrs. Massey and 
Millen have made 5770 visits. The work is thus de- 
scribed by Mr. Massey:— “J meet with much sin and 
sorrow, much calculated to depress and cast down; but 
I meet also with much gratitude and attention from many 
who apart from our mission could say, ‘No man careth 
for my soul”” The mightiest instrument in the hands 
of the Master’s mightiest foeis still intemperance, which 
continues to be the one obstacle to our mission work. 
The difficulties caused by it and the horrors it produces 
are the subject of almost every monthly report submitted 
to us, in such words as these: “I might tell you,” says 
Mr. Millen, “of drunken fathers and drunken mothers 
and neglected children ;” adding, the Scripture tells us 
plainly what will become of the drunkard and of the 
child left to itself. When the missionary sends in at the 
close of the year his annual statement, it is almost made 
up of descriptions of woe and misery, and counteraction 
ascribed to this overshadowing power of darkness. We 
join with the workers in the field in an earnest appeal 
for prayer for the struggling drunkard, whose promises 
and resolutions are alike valueless in the presence of 
temptation, for there is a peculiar joy in heaven over 
the repentance of one such. Next to drunkenness, but 
generally separate from it only in the young, is idleness, 
which leads into the paths of sin: and from the expe- 
rience of the City Missionary a warning comes with 
peculiar force to Sabbath School teachers, who often 
little imagine the speedy evil consequences of a little 
carelessness on their part. Such should not rest until 
they have the assurance that the precious souls, com- 
mitted in a great measure, perhaps altogether, to them, 
are sale in the fold of the Good Shepherd. 


NEw Misstonary.—Mr. Massey’s connection with 
the Association after eleven years duration having ceased, 
his place has been providentially filled by one who is 
peculiarly adapted for missionary labour in connection 


13 


with an association like this. The Rev. C. P. Watson, 
lately a pastor in London, C.W., one of the founders of 
this association, and looked upon we believe as the 
father of an influential sister association in London, a 
gentlemen well known and much liked by multitudes 
of young men in Montreal, is now cordially commended 
to the friendship and fellowship of all who are labouring 
for Christ in this city. Mr. Watson’s special field will 
be among young men. 


SUMMARY. 


The following figures, when expressed in round numbers, are only 
approximations, believed to be generally considerably below the exact 
num ber :— 


_——- 


een a nn ee se ee ee a Tt 


Mr. Massey.| Mr. Millen. | Association.# Torars, 


Tracts in 8 languages...... Pe Bae 18421 13070* 
Small books, periodicals, &c....-- 600 aks 5000t § 80000 
uate sie 30000f 

Domiciliary visits. ......--+++++> 2171 3599 1000 6770 
Visits to General Hospital....... 62 79 ees 141 
Tail visita. (3 sisi ue 4 Sd w RIE Wile «0 47 ve md 47 
Other Institutions. ..........ee8. 98 118 my aN 216 
WarrACks pV. 18s ies ses c wlsa ee. Gh fe 5 31 100 136 
Ships and other vessels.......+-. 73 eee 1329 2061 
Unfortunates sent home to Asylum 4 sain 6 oa 4 
Situations obtained .........ee+. 6 coe 42 48 
Induced to sign Pledge..... iis ce yes 9 1 10 
Bethel and Cottage Meetings held 208 91 500 750 
Aggregate Attendance...........|. 4472 978 8300 13000 
Induced to attend Church or Sun- 

GAY BCHOO! 5. vies oes wie hs ble ca 4 Oh s 4 
Received for Poor..... Lea Cees id $21.00 | $63.35 | $ 8.30 
Expended 6... caidas oe sp accaveecee| $22.62 | $61.10 | $13.30 [$97.02 

* Sailors’ Tract Distributors. + Nazareth-Street Mission. 


t Mr. Jardine, among Soldiers. 

A social meeting was also held by Mr. Massey for 
the poor, at which about 200 were present. 

Sums for the poor are expended by preference on 
young men really in need; but the funds for this pur- 
pose have been entirely in the hands ofthe three mission- 
aries, by whom they have been collected and expended. 


14 


THE ROOMS AND LIBRARY. 


Chairman: Mr. COCHRANE. 


Rooms.—The Association has again had occasion to 
move to new rooms, and it is now settled more comfort- 
ably than ever at No: 63 Great St. James Street, where 
it has a reading room which will compare favourably for 
comiort and elegance with any in the province, to which 
we have freely invited all young men, strangers to the 
City, soldiers, and others; those whose opportunities are 
otherwise few, are made especially welcome. A visit 
from those who have not seen these rooms, will give 
much pleasure. 


LIBRARY.—The Committee for last year reported an 
intention of establishing a library of reference, for the 
free use of Ministers, Sunday School Teachers, Students 
and others, a plan which has been followed up, but. not 
completed by us. The movement was commenced by 
the holding of a social meeting, on the 29th December, 
18638, to which the Sunday School Teachers were invited 
and which was largely attended, by Superintendents and. 
others. The scheme was highly approved of by those 
present, who passed unanimously the following resolu- 
tion :— 

“That this meeting regards the subject proposed by the Montreal 
Young Men’s Christian Association, of forming a library of reference, in- 
cluding a complete and efficient collection of the works useful to assist 


in the labour of Sunday School Teaching, for the free use of the Teachers 
of the City as an urgent necessity.” 


A subscription was started and put into the hands 
of the President ; seven subscriptions of $100 each have 
been already obtained, besides smaller sums, the follow- 
ing being the list so far: 


B. Lyman, - - - $100 Jos. MacKay, - - - 100 
T. Jas. Claxton,- - 100 E.K.Greene, - - - 50 
©. Alexander, - - 100 H.& A. Allan, - - - 50 
J.A. Mathewson, - 100 J.C. Mayer, - - - 25 
David Lewis - - 100 John Leemmg - - - 20 


Geo. Winks & Co. - 100 
$845 


15 


The library, of which a nucleus already existed, 
now consists of 1376 volumes, of a class suitable to those 
for whom it is intended, 256 being more decidedly 
works of reference, are not permitted to leave the rooms. 
The others are lent out only to members of the assocta- 
tion. These books have been for some time very well 
used. A neat temporary catalogue has been hung in 
ithe reading room, but printed catalogues being now in the 
course of preparation, those for whom the room is intend- 
edare invited to come and make free use of it. Ministers 
and Sabbath School teachers of both sexes will find suit- 
able arrangements at the rooms for the use of the works 
of reference. It is hoped that the number of books will 
be more than doubled before a year or two, but this 
depends on the generosity of the friends of the Associa- 
tion. 


Reaping Room.—The reading room is now fur- 
nished with forty magazines and twenty newspapers, 
the proceeds of certain excursions in the summer having 
been devoted by those who carried them out, to this 
object. The list of periodicals now being received will 
be found at the close. The reading room has been very 
well frequented during the morning of each day and also 
on Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday evenings. The 
majority of those visiting are young men, strangers in 
the city. 

MuszrumM.—It is intended to commence an educa- 
tional museum, the nucleus of which is already secured, 
and which will doubtless increase from the contributions 
of friends. The design of this project being entirely 
different from that of other scientific collections, 1t can- 
not compete with, or in any degree damage them ; only 
such specimens being wanted as may by the help of a 
label convey some information to every visitor. Speci- 
mens, scientifically valuable, would therefore generally 
be lost here, and would willingly be exchanged for their 


16 


equivalent in less rare specimens. To awaken a taste 
which may be pursued in higher institutions, is the 
simple aim of the project. | 


PERMANENT SECRETARY.—The work of your com- 
mittee becoming too heavy for the honorary Officers of 
the Association, and the claims of young men, especially 
strangers, upon its good offices being much neglected, 
it was resolved to engage a secretary and librarian, who 
should also act as a missionary to young men. Mr. 
Alfred Sandham has been acting in these capacities 
since May. Alterations have been made in the constitution 
by which one honorary secretary, with such assistance, 
takes the place of the former corresponding and recor- 
ding secretaries. 


EMPLOYMENT-—An employment book has been 
opened, in which are entered the names of young men 
seeking situations, who are well recommended. The 
attention of employers is called to this book. The num- 
ber who have through its means obtained employment 
since May has been forty-two. 


ASSISTANCE.—Among those assisted by Mr. Sand- 
ham may be mentioned the case of a very interesting 
young man from Dublin, who came to this city so weak 
as to be forced to go to the hospital. Getting out, he 
was brought to the rooms and was provided for at the 
St. Andrew’s Home, where he speedily grew weaker. A 
comfortable bed and sufficient food were arranged for, 
and the young man frequently expressed his anxiety to 
eet to work, but as he constantly grew weaker he was 
taken to the hospital again. The day before his death 
he called at the rooms, and expressed earnestly to Mr. 
Sandham his gratitude for what the association had 
done for him, and hoped he might be spared to make 
some return. He seemed to be a decided believer. A 
letter which arrived for him just alter his death was 


17 


returned to the Dublin Young Men’s Christian Associa- 
tion, along with a letter to his parents, whose address 
was not known. That association found out the home 
of the young man; and his father and mother, aged 
servants of God, have since expressed their gratitude 
for the care taken of their son. Mr. Sandham has dis- 
tributed some tracts, and in various ways sought to be 
useful to young men. 


PUBLICATIONS.—Besides its annual report and the 
synopsis of work for the past winter, the Society has, 
during the year, commenced the publication of the 
Montreal Young Men's Christian Association eporter, 
which is issued occasionally, when circumstances 
call for it. The last of its four pages contains a list 
of the officers and various meetings of the Associa- 
tions; the two inner pages are formed of such material 
as it is desirable to circulate in a tract form, and the first 
page is reserved for statements of the Association’s work 
and requirements. This periodical is circulated among 
members of bible classes, Sunday school teachers, &c., 
to interest them in the work of the Association. 


BRANCHES.—The propriety of forming branch 
Associations for the good of those too far from the 
central rooms, has been frequently discussed, but the 
plan has not yet appeared feasible. 


The Association retains its rooms No. 1 Poplar Place, 
‘which are in charge of the Mission Committee. 


MEETINGS. 
Chairman : Mr. BENTLEY. 


SoctaL GATHERINGS.—The annual Festival held on 
the 18th December was a most interesting occasion, the 
Mechanics’ Hall being then densely filled. A social 
meeting was held in the Spring in the basement of the 
American Church, of such as had been during the 

C 


18 


Winter engaged in mission work, which was addressed 
by those at the heads of the various departments of the 
work, as well as by clergymen present, who testified to 
the usefulness of such associations as this in increasing 
the working capabilities of the churches with which 
their members were connected. The Christian soldiers 
held a social meeting at the rooms on the 29th of April, 
and a farewell supper was given by the committee to 
the Christian men of the battalions of Guards on the eve 
of their departure for Britain, at which very kindly 
feelings were manifested. The pupils of the Pointe aux 
Tremble schools were entertained after the last anniver- 
sary of the French Canadian Missionary Society as 
they had been a year before. 


Business Mrrtines.—The Association has met 
regularly every month for the transaction of business 
the general committee much more frequently. 


PRAYER Mrrtines.—The very interesting and use- 
ful union prayer meeting held in the rooms on Sunday 
aiternoons has continued to grow under the charge of 
some ofthe senior members of the Association, who have 
taken charge of it amonth each. The soldiers’ prayer 
meeting which was last year held daily, became during 
this year semi-weekly, and was afterwards discontinued. 
The daily noon prayer meeting which was held last 
winter was discontinued during the summer, and cir- 
cumstances have not yet led to its recommencement, 
but the daily union morning prayer meeting so long 
held in the basement of the American Church, and 
afterwards in that of Zion Church, removed in June 
last to our rooms, where it has since been maintained. 
The Mothers’ monthly prayer meeting also continues to 
honour the rooms. 


SunpDAy ScHooL Tracuers’ AssociaTion.—At the 
social meeting of Sunday School Teachers, above referred 
to, the idea of forming, either in connection with or if 


19 


possible distinct from this Association a Sunday School 
Teachers’ Association, was brought forward and received 
with as much unanimity as the library scheme; and it 
was then resolved to hold: meetings of Teachers periodi- . 
cally. The second meeting was that to which the mis- 
sion work of the Association was reported; and as this 
took a good deal of its time, it was only resolved to 
appoint a Committee to take the matter in hand. 


MEETING WITH FRENCH MINISTERS AND MISSION- 
aries.—An interview was had last winter with nearly 
all the French Protestant Pastors and Missionaries of the 
City to discuss the possibility of bringing those speaking 
that language under the influence of the cottage meeting 
work of the Association. Many useful suggestions were 
made, and itis hoped that we may yet have the co-opera- 
tion of some of the young French Canadian brethren. 


Lrecrures.—A course of lectures was kindly deliver- 
ed by the Revs. John Alexander, John Irwin, Dr. Wilkes: 
J. Johnson, and Prof. Robins; the subjects being specially 
chosen for the benefit of young men. These lectures 
were pecuniarily successful, but with the exception of a 
fair representation of the members of the Association, 
the attendance was very unsatisfactory. A free course 
has been resolved on for the coming winter, to be de- 
livered in the rooms so long as they are found sufficiently 
large. 


CLASsES.—Last winter a Bible class was started on 
Friday evenings, but owing to many of those who would 
have attended being engaged in cottage meetings, it 
proved a failure, as did also after the first few weeks the 
debates which were appointed for Thursday evenings. 
A French class was held on Monday evenings and con- 
tinued for some time. This classmay be renewed during 
the coming season. 


MutrvaL IMPROVEMENT CLASSES —Two Mutuel 


20 


Improvement Classes were formed early last winter, one 
of these which held its first meeting at the rooms on Sun- 
day morning, the 13th December, 1863, commenced 
under the Supervision of Mr. Thomas Robertson. It was 
continued throughout the summer, and has increased 
during the last month or two in members and. interest. 
The object of this class is the combined intellectual and 
spiritual improvement of young men. It is composed of 
Seniors and Juniors, the former being active members of 
the Association, and the latter associate members, and 
others. On the senior members devolve all the exercises 
each taking his turn as classified by the roll-book. An 
essay 1s required on the first Sabbath of each month of the 
member whose turn it is, and the other Sabbaths of the 
month are employed in the discussion of doctrinal and 
gospel subjects alternately the duty of preparation being 
laid on the different members in turn. The system has 
proved in the experience of the members of great ad- 
vantage both to mind and soul. The meetings are at 
9s a.m. every Sabbath morning, and Mr. Jones the 
Secretary in reporting calls for more members, adding 
that all who join it with earnest resolve to take its 
duties perseveringly upon them, cannot fail to obtain 
great benefit. 

The other class was of a somewhat different charac- 
ter. It was established chiefly under the management 
of Mr. A. C. Williamson, without whom it would never 
have existed. It held its meetings on Mondays and 
Thursdays at the Nazareth Street School-house, the 
Thursday evenings being set apart for Lectures, a num- 
ber of which were delivered by Ministers and others. 
The Monday evenings were occupied in mutual improve- 
ment, under the the guidance of Mr. Williamson. This 
class continued in successful operation until the 24th 
ot March, when it was discontinued for the Summer, all 
engaged being highly satisfied with its success. Mr. 
John McDougall was Secretary. 


21 


Sunpay ScHoous.—The Association maintains at 
present but one Sunday School, that formerly under the 
supermtendence of Mr. Milloy, now of Mr. Dickson, in 
the Rooms in Poplar Place, Mountain Street, which 
rooms have long been too small for it. 


ConvENTIONS.—A convention of the Young Men’s 
Christian Associations of British North America, and 
of men interested in the formation of such - Asso- 
ciations, was called by this Association to meet in 
Montreal on the 30th December, 1854. The inyvita- 
tion, however, met with but a small response, and the 
Toronto association then forming was the only one 
which sent a delegate, so that no meetings were held. 
The correspondence, however, which was elicited by our 
widely distributed invitation proved that the labour and 
expense of sending forth the appeal which was annexed 
to that invitation, was by no means lost, but that many 
had been stirred up to consider the duty of working for 
Christ in this and other ways. 


At the General Meeting held in Boston on the Ist 
of June, this association was represented by eleven of 
its members, viz: Revds. J. Irwin, J. B. Bonar, J. Alex- 
ander, Messrs. T. J. Claxton, T. Hobson, J. R. Dougall, 
E. 8. Lyman, L. Cushing, Massey, and Sandham. To- 
ronto was represented by two delegates, and the United 
States associations by nearly 200. The sentiment which 
was most strongly brought out at that mteresting meet- 
ing was that whatever occasional or general efforts the 
Young Men’s Associations might take up as called for 
by peculiar circumstances, or as needful to bind together 
their organizations, their proper and principal sphere 
was among young men. 


MEMBERS. 
Chairman—J. D. DOUGALL. 
The number of members has been during the year 


19 Gof : 


22 


Increased by 162 while others have in various ways 
dropped from the lists, the whole number at present 
being 373, The list has been put into more definite 
order than heretofore, and appears at the close of this 
Report. 


FINANCES. 
Chairman—Mr. THomas LEEMING. 

THE ASSOCIATION is dependent for defraying its 
expenses on the annual subscriptions of its members and 
the proceeds of Lectures, Festivals, Pic-Nics, &c. None 
of the Social Meetings held during the past year have 
been at the expense of the treasury. A good deal 
has been expended on the Rooms and Library which 
has not passed through the Treasurer’s hands, and which 
would make the total expenditure for the year on the 
Association account $1,007.49. 


Misst1on.—The collections for the Mission-work are 
presented at the close of this Report, They have been 
somewhat poorer than for a year or two back. The 
whole amount expended on the Mission, has been 
$1,621.88. 


The foregoing Report respectfully submitted to the 
Association. 


J. REDPATH DOUGALL, 


Secretary. 


MontTREAL, November 15th, 1864. 


o) 
OO 


At the Adjourned Annual Meeting of the Associa- 
tion, held on 22nd November last, it was moved by Mr. 
CG. R. Buack, seconded by Mr. JARDINE, and carried,— 


« That this Association sincerely regrets the necessity 
“of parting with Mr. Massey, who has been connected 
“with us in Mission-work for the past eleven years; and 
“he has our warmest wishes for his success in whatever 
“sphere Providence may call him to.” 


Moved by Mr. J. Murruy, seconded by Mr. A. H. 
CAMERON, and carried,— 


“That the above motion be printed in the Annual 
“ Report.” 


The MONTREAL YounG MEn’s CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION, in account with JAMES Ross, Treasurer. 


Dy. ASSOCIATION ACCOUNT. Or. 
To Balance due Treasurer, ending November, 1863... . . 89.15 By Cash, received Membership Subscriptions . ; . . es 
To Cash, paid J. Dickie for12 Benches .. . ee = a 18.00 By Cash, Proceeds of Lectures . . EES Med 79.18 


To Cash, paid Jas. Baylis’ Account. . ....2...: . “et a8, Sb 
To Cash, paid Messrs. Parslow and Grinton’s Accounts... 22.93 
To Cash, paid Water Rates, 63 Great St. James Street... . 34.30 
To Cash, paid Gas Accounts. .......2:..... = 48.7 
To Cash, paid for Coals and Firewood . . ... . a oe ee 
70 Cash, paid insurance... ... . .= 27 Sa in at oe 
To Cash, paid Attendance at Rooms, Willis and McKay ... 168.55 
To Cash, paid Rent to Messrs. Muir & Campbell . . ... . 500.00 
To Cash, paid Sundry Items and small Accounts . . - Re A 


By Cash, Half Proceeds orennualteiiva.°........ 

By Cash, Joint-Subscription from Messrs. H. J. Shaw & G. Wilkes 5.00 
By Cash, Donation from Mr. Crawford, of H.B,€o.. ... . 5.00 
By Cash, Proceeds of Concerts, Pic-nic, and Strawberry Festival 364.84 
By Cash, part Rent of Rooms sub-let . .. . AE EEE 26.50 
By Cash, from Messrs. Cochrane and lecuing . .. . ee 


1864. $c. 1864. $c. 
| By Balance due Treasurer .....%:.. AA hie Pe S A 65.43 


$1,072.92 : $1,072.92 
To Balance due Treasurer, brought down. . .. . $65.43 


MISSION ACCOUNT. 


1864. $ ¢. 1864. $ ¢ 


To Cash, paid Mr. Massey’s Salary ending October . . . . . 641.67 By Balance on hand, ending N’ ovember, 1868. 3° |, = = - Joe 5e 
To Cash, paid Mr. Millen’s Salary ending November ... . 491.67 By Cash, received Rent from Mission House. . . . . a 


To Cash, paid Mr. Watson’s Salary for N rome sa, 58.00 By Cash, Half Proceeds of Annual Tova, -. ss 56.08 
To Cash, paid Mr. Sandhetts =<. 5 ede oe SS 198 .00 By Cash, from Non-Denominational Mission Sabbath School, in 
To Cash, paid Rent of Mission House, and sundry other Meeting Nazareth Street . . . Stine ee 5.35 


RUC ek eS ee a eS. ae By Cash, from H. A. Nelson’s Sabbath-School Class. : 2 2 5 93/95 
To Cash, paid for Tracts and Hymn Books, &e. ......, 21.70 By Cash, Discount cB EE = area * Be 3.87 
To Cash, paid Sundry Items in connection with Mission . 1 2 96.17 By Cash, Collection from Am. Pres. Church, per E. K. Greene | 249.50 
ig Batance intgata. =..;.... °: . SSeS se ee By Cash, Collection from First Bap. Church, per T. Jas. Claxton 204.75 
By Cash, collected per T. James Claxton. . . . . . . . . 111.00 
By Cash, Collection from Zion Church, per C. R. Black | - « 412.90 
By Cash, Collection from Coté-Street Church, per James Ross . 144.75 
By Cash, Collection from Great St. James-Street Wesleyan Ch., 

per Messrs, Dutton and Middlemiss. . .... . « « 19.50 
By Cash, Collection from Dr. Taylor’s Church, p. Messrs. Thom- 

eae Woh eme s,s ee * § 0 eee 
By Cash, Collection from St. Paul’s Church, per W. Reid. . . 42.00 
By Cash, Subscription—Thomas Leeming. .. 5 10.00 


MonTrEAL, December 31st, 1864. By Cash, Collection from St. Gabriel-Street Church PB Se 2 6.00 
Audited, and found correct. re 
JOHN G. WARNOOK, $1,756.01 $1,756.01 
THOS. HOBSON. =— 


; By Balance on hand, broughtdown. . ..... $134.13 


CRIMPING BUSINESS. 


ANNUAL TEA-MEETING OF THE MONTREAL SAILORS’ 
INSTITUTE. 


The following is the address of the Rev. Mr. Sykes delivered at the 
above meeting :— 

He observed that he had been requested by the chairman to attend 
the meeting to state facts of which he, Mr. Sykes, was cognizant, and 
facts were stubborn things. He had no flattering words to use towards 
sailors, captains, or merchants, but, for the credit of Quebec, he must 
speak a word in reference to her peculiar condition, difficulties and 
besetments in regard to treatment of sailors, that port being so different 
from ours of Montreal. Here the shipping was, so to speak, all in one 
block, but at Quebec it extended straggling for about a distance of about 
nine miles on both sides of the river. There the sailors were exposed 
to great personal danger, owing to the necessity of their often crossing 
booms upon dark nights or windy days. In this respect of relative 
hazard as well as in danger of another kind, the ports of Montreal and 
Quebec would bear no sort of comparison. He had seen some places 
here at the back of the port, as he had seen some in London, which bore 
some resemblance to the Quebec dens, but here the sailor must go to 
them, but at Quebec he lands amidst them, and Champlain Street was, 
indeed, a most dangerous place. The friends of the sailor in Quebec had 
an eye on a large room in the Custom House there, which they hoped to 
obtain for purposes similar to those which the rooms of our Sailors’ 
Institute in Montreal were applied, and when that should have been 
effected, the sailor might have the same safety and comfort there as 
here. The speaker then quoted statistics from a report, shewing the 
large number of vessels avd sailors at Quebec for the last three years. 
He was, he continued, Chaplain to the Marine Hospital, as weil as to 
the port of Quebec. It was necessary that atiention should be directed 
to the traffic there in both vessels and sailors. There had of late years 
been a great improvement in the mode of building vessels in that place, 
in consequence of which they were in great demand ; and, as a necessary 
result, so were sailors in much request, in order to take them to sea. A 
gigantic evil was going on hand in hand with this increase in the 
building of vessels, by stealing crews to man them. A law was required 
to protect the seaman from the crimps, and the many temptations and 
impositions to which he was exposed. He, Mr. Sykes, would, however, 
give the company a few of the facts he had promised them when he first 
rose to speak. His opinion of sailors was not based upon information 
obtained from the landsmen. There were good and bad amongst them, 
as amongst every class ; but they were not ignorant. He had found, in 
the galley and forecastle, men well read in books useful to men in their 
situation. The sailor of 1864 was not the one of fifty years ago, and on 
coming into communication with them it was found that they had men 
of mind to deal with. He had delivered temperance lectures to them 
an hour and a half long, and they had listened with attention ; and this 
was a true test of the mind. He would now state some of the evils car- 


D 


26 


ried on in the port of Quebec, but would remind them that the good man 
was sometimes trapped along with the bad one by the designing crimp. 
The speaker had known a young Scotch sailor who had visited Quebec 
for the first time. The captain had sent him to the post-office, and in so 
doing he had to pass along Champlain street,—to pass the house of the 
man—the crimp whom the chairman had spoken of as having bought a 
ship. He was hailed by what he thought a brother sailor, who asked 
him to come in and have a glass with him, and when they had arrived 
at a certain door they entered it and found the glass there, ready charged, 
it had in it a drug, and this man who had hailed the stranger as a friend, 
and taken him there, wasa wicked and designing runner for a crimp. 
The young man did not sit down, he left the place and got on board the 
ship, but whilst he was giving the letter to his captain the charge took 
effect upon him and he fell upon the deck. Had he stayed in the place 
where he was served with the liquor, he would have been put into a 
cellar or garret, he would have had along sleep, and in the evening 
found himself on board a ship standing out to sea. Let the sailors 
present take warning by this. He would tell them of two 
more cases. Two men were taken by runners from a ship to the 
house ofa crimp. One was a strong fellow, and by sheer force managed 
to escape whilst the runners were securing his companion. Upon infor- 
mation received from the former, his captain, officers and fellow-sailors 
went to the house and found the other pinioned. Another case was one 
of a sailor caught by crimps, and who was found a prisoner, tied toa 
bedpost. This kind of proceedings was quite common in Champlain 
street. A poor man was caught in that street by two fellows, who sud- 
denly seized him by the arms. They laughed, and he thought it was a 
joke. They ran along, and he thus held fast, and thinking it a rough 
jest, ran with them, they all ran together into the house of a crimp, 
where his arms were pinioned, a bottle forced into his mouth, and he 
made to swallow the contents. He became insensible, and was put into 
aroom upstairs. In the night he awoke, and, groping round the apart- 
ment to make his escape, he fell down a hole, and was seriously injured. 
In the morning he was taken off in a boat, and literally pitched on to 
the vessel. His captain sent him to the hospital, where the speaker 
had the narrative from the man’s own lips.—One day Mr. Sykes saw in 
Champlain street a black boy. The latter seemed to be going very 
slowly along, when Mr. Sykes observed two glazed cap fellows—the 
runners frequently wore glazed caps—he observed them catch the boy, 
and take him into the back part of the house of one Ward, a man well 
known in Quebec. ‘Che boy had already been confined there a fortnight. 
He had, in fact, been taken prisoner and pulled into the house in broad 
daylight, and it was well understood that if he were to be sought for he 
would not be found. The ramifications of the crimping system were 
unseen and wide. On Peters street a boy was standing near a ship, and 
a boarding-house keeper had two sailors so drunk that they had quarelled 
and appeared to be going to fight. One of these men was a crimp, and 
Mr. Sykes knew him, and, thinking him a different character, had fed 
him during the winter. The boy had been stolen by this crimp, who 
had been working for a few days on the vessel, in order that he might be 
able to do so. This statement was true, for the offender had himself 
confessed it to Mr. Sykes when taxed by the latter with his cruel con- 
duct. The speaker took a policeman, and gave the boy in charge ; but 
the constable said he could not take him. Now in London, England, a 
policeman in such a case would have made the arrest on view; but in 
Quebec you must get a warrant, and so the criminal escaped. Mr. Sykes 
then got three city policemen to watch the place whilst the water police 


27 


were fetched. But the crimp came out and laughed at them, and told: 
them to find the boy if they could. The boy, in fine, was not found by 
the police. Since that time Mr. Sykes had seen him, for he was on the 
runner’s hands; but he, Mr. §., could not liberate him, for there must be 
witnesses obtained and formalities gone through. 

The rev. speaker held divine service on the ship “ Hope” last Sunday 
week, when there was evidently an old runner amongst the crew.— 
This runner had brought there a crimp and some others, and they pre- 
sented pistols at the heads of the crew, whilst they stole a boy out of the 
forecastle. The captain instituted a search, and got the boy back ; but 
the question might very naturally be stated, why did they not take the 
crimp? The reason was, it was felt that there would be such difficul— 
ties thrown in the way that it would be a fruitless task ; and the very 
magistrates on the bench insulted the captain, who was told he would 
get well paid by the crimps for not further looking after the man. The 
police certainly went, but a whisper was given by one of them, and it 
was soon seen that the man could not be got. Indeed, the police were 
as bad as the crimps, and some of the captains by connivance were 
as bad as these men. He would, however, give another case. ‘T'wo men 
were sick, and wished to go to the hospital. One of them wanted to 
have his chest taken care of by his captain, but the latter insisted upon 
his taking the chest, and told him to put it into that man’s boat. What 
man’s boat? The crimp’s. James Ward was that man, and they had a 
right to suspect that captain of being in collusion with crimps. The 
men were taken as to the hospital, but, for that night, one of them 
remained in Ward’s house, where the boxes were retained, and them- 
selves passed to the hospital. One of these men, when he was better, 
went, against the advice of Mr. Sykes, back to Ward’s house, and he was 
subsequently left behind in port. Such was the extent of this crimping 
business in Quebec, that, notwithstanding the large number of crews 
supplied to newly built vessels, two hundred seamen were afterwards 
found locked up, and amongst the number was this man. Many of these 
men were subsequently sent to New York, where there is little doubt but 
that they were drafted away into the Federalarmy. Some time after these 
proceedings Mr. Sykes again saw the black boy already spoken of. He 
was with Ward, who had offered to take him to New York. He declined, 
slipped away from him, fell sick, went to the hospital, and died there of 
the small-pox. One Saturday, the speaker visited the hospital, and was 
told by the orderly that a man had come in who had fallen down the hold 
ofaship. Mr. Sykes saw him, and his face was almost as black as that 
of the poor black boy’s, his eyes were swollen up, and he lay groaning in 
a most fearful and pitable condition. “This is the clergyman, Mr. Sin- 
gleton,” said the orderly, approaching the bed. “0O, Mr. Clergyman, 
do you think I shall die?” asked the sick man. “Are you fit to 
die?” enquired the minister. “No, I am not.” was the réply.— 
He then said that it was in the night that he had tripped and fallen, 
and his back was even worse than his head. The poor sufferer was 65 
years old, and Mr. Sykes having prayed with him, left to make enquiries 
at the vessel as to how the casualty had happened. The captain 
said it had not happened on board the ship at all; the man had been 
taken by crimps, from the vessel to a house over the way in Cham- 
plain street. Mr. Sykes went to Mr. Russell, the magistrate, to have 
the affair investigated, but nothing satisfactory seemed to have come of 
the application. Mr. Sykes, also, afterwards asked Singleton how he 
could tell him such a falsehood as he had done. Singleton replied that 
the crimps had ill-used him, and thus caused his frightful appearance, 
when he tried to get away from them in order to return to his ship. 


28 


They had beaten him, and afterwards opened a trap door, and hurled him 
headlong down into a cellar beneath. The shutters of the place were at 
once put up, so that nothing was seen from the outside, and nothing 
- known except what might be gathered from the noise. The poor man 
died in a week after this from the effects of the murderous treatment he 
had received. The two crimps were put in jail, but the lawyers came 
and got them bailed out, and they carried on their business during the 
remainder of the season. The case was then heard before the court but 
nothing could be proved beyond what had been heard, for so adroitly do 
they manage these things, that nothing had been seen, and the culprits 
were acquitted. The magistrates were to blame in their conduct in the 
investigation of these outrages, and action towards the crimping busi- 
ness. We wanted not only good laws, but good men to put them into 
effect. The Government Police system at Quebec was a bad one.—They 
had there some thirty-five water policemen during the season of naviga- 
tion, but in winter they were disbanded, and had to get their living with 
these very crimps. They should be engaged for the whole year, with- 
drawn from association with such characters, and made to feel their own 
responsibility. 


29 


CONSTITUTION. 


———_——__+- > oe _—-— 


ArtIcLeE I. 


This Society shall be called “Tum MontREAL Youna Men’s Curistian 
AssocraTIon AND City Mission.” 


Articir II. 


Its objects shall be, the religzous and mental improvement of its Mem- 
bers, especially in connection with the study of the Scriptures ; the 
union of young men of various Churches in this and other plans of 
usefulness ; and the providing of means by which young men, coming as 
strangers into the city, may be brought under the religious influences 
among their own class. 


Articus III. 


This Association adopts, as the basis of all its proceedings those 
fundamental principles of Evangelical Christianity on which all Orthodox 
Protestant Churches are agreed, and will never admit any intermedd- 
ling with those matters of Faith and Polity on which such Churches 
differ. 


ARTICLE IV. 


Any young man, who is a member in good standing of an Evangeli- 
cal Church in this city, may become an Active Member. Active Members 
only have the right to vote, and be eligible to office; and it shall be 
their particular duty to carry out the object of this Association. Any 
young man, of good moral character, may become an Associate Mem- 
ber ; and shall be entitled to all the privileges of the Association, except 
that of voting and being eligible to office. Any Associate Member, who 
shall unite with an Evangelical Church, becomes thereby an active mem- 
per of this Association, due notice thereof being given to the Secretary. 
Members may be proposed and elected at any meeting of the Association 
or of the Committee. All elections shall be by ballot. Any person, 
who is a Member in good standing of an Evangelical Church in this City 
may become a Life-Member of this Association on the payment of $25 
to the general funds of the Association at any one time. Any person who 
is a member in good standing of an Evangelical Church in this City may 
become a Life-Director of this Association on the payment of $100 to the 
general funds of the Association at any one time. Persons may become 
Honorary Members. The Association shall have power to expel Members. 

It shall at any time be competent for the Association to engage a 
person as Assistant to the Secretary, who shall fulfil the duties of Mission- 
ary to young men. 


ArTIcLE V. 
The annual subscription to this Association shall be One Dollar per 


annum, to be paid on being received into membership, and during the 
month of November in each subsequent year. 


30 


Articin VI. 
The Officers of the Association shall be—a President, Vice-Presidents, 
a Treasurer, a Corresponding Secretary, and a Committee of Fifteen to 
be elected annually by ballot from the Members, A majority of the votes 
cast shall be an election ; five to form a quorum. | 
ARTICLE VII, 
An Annual Meeting shall be held in the month of N ovember, to re- 
ceive the Report of the Officers and elect their successors. 
ARTICLE VIIT, 
All meetings of the Association and Committee shall be opened and 
closed with prayer, 
Artictr IX, 


This Constitution shall not be altered, except at an Annual Meeting, 
or at a Special Meeting, to be held at the call of the Committee, and by 
the vote of two-thirds of the Members present, 


BY-LAWS. 


ARTICLE I, 
MEMBERSHIP, 


1.—Applicants for membership must be proposed by a Member of 
the Association. All such proposals shall be made in writing, and shall 
contain the name in full, the residence, the church of which the ap- 
plicant is a member, and, if not a church-member, the congregation he 
is connected with. It shall also be signed by the proposer. 
- _ 2.—-Honorary Members shall be proposed at a regular meeting, and 
shall be received as members by motion, if carried by a majority of two- 
thirds of the members present.. Art V. of Constitution not to apply 
to Honorary Members. } 

3.—The Members shall seek out young men taking up their residence 
in this city, endeavour to bring them under moral and religious influ- 
ences, and, by every means in their power, to surround them with 
Christian associates. Members shall also exert themselves to interest 
the churches to which they respectively belong in the objects and welfare 
of the Association. They shall labor to induce all suitable young 
men of their acquaintance to connect themselves with the Association, 
and use all praticable means for increasing its membership, activity, 
and usefulness, 


ol 


ARTICLE II. 
OFFICERS. 


1.—It shall be the duty of the President to preside at all business 
meetings of the Association and Committee, and to preserve in strict exer- 
cise the rules established by Parliamentary order. In the absence of 
the President, the senior officer present shall preside. Devotional meet- 
ings may be presided over by an Active Member of the Association. 

2.—The duties of the Secretary shall be to keep a correct record of 
proceedings at all meetings of the Association, of the General Committee 
and of Standing Committees meeting at the Rooms. To keep a full and 
complete register of the name, residence and church of each Member. 
To notify all Officers and Members of their election or appointments, and 
prepare the work for the regular monthly meeting. 

He shall, under the direction of the Committee, have charge of the 
correspondence of the Association. Keep copies of all letters written 
and fyles of those received by him relating to the affairs of the Associa- 
tion. He shall also present a written report of the Association at the 
Annual Meeting. , 

3.—The duties of the Assistant Secretary shall be to keep the records 
of the Association, under the supervision of the Secretary. To fulfil the 
duties of a Missionary to young men. To act as Librarian and Superin- 
tendent at the Rooms, and generally as agent of the Association under 
the direction of the Committee. 

4.—The Treasurer shall receive all monies due the Association, and 
disburse the same under the direction of the Committee. He shall keep 
a full and correct account of his transactions, and report to the Com- 
mittee when so required, and to the Association at its annual meeting. 

5.—The Committee shall have the general management of the Asso- 
ciation, and shall report monthly to the Association. 


ARTICLE III. 
STANDING COMMITTEES. 


1.—The Standing Committees, who shall be subject to the General 
Committee, shall be—a Committee on Rooms and Library ; a Committee 
on Lectures, Essays and Debates ; a Committee on Bible Classes ; a Fin- 
ance Committee anda Mission Committee. ‘These Committees shall 
be appointed by the President from the General Committee. They 
shall be subject to, and shall report to each monthly meeting of the 
General Committee. The President and Recording Secretary shall be 
ex-officio members of each standing Committee. 

2—The Committee on Rooms and Library shall consist of three 
members who shall attend to the Rooms of the Association, and see 
that they are kept in good order. This Committee shall also arrange 
for the proper distribution of the books in the Library, and use all 
available means for its increase and preservation. 

3 The Committee on Bible Classes to consist of three members, 
shall have charge of all Bible Classes connected with the Association, 
and shall make all arrangements for their efficient working. 

4.—The Committee on Lectures, Essays and Debates, to consist of 
three members, shall provide for the delivery of Lectures or Sermons ; 
shall prepare subjects for essays, debates or conversation ; engage mem- 
bers to take part in the meetings of the Association, prepare a programme 
of each meeting, and cause it to be announced at least one week before 
such meeting is held. 


5.—The Finance Committee, to consise of three members, shall de- 
vise means for obtaining necessary funds for the Association, and shall 
examine and approve all accounts referred to them by the General Com- 
mittee previous to their payment by the Treasurer. The Treasurer 
Shall be an ex-officio member of this Committee. 

6.—The Mission Committee shall consist of five members, and it 
shall be their duty to superintend the City Mission render all possi- 
ble aid to the Missionary or Missionaries, and use all the means in their 
power to promote the success of the Mission, and to extend its useful- 
ness. 

7.—The President shall also nominate a Committee on Member- 
ship; to consist ofa Chairman, who shall be a member of the General 
Committee, and not less than ten Active Members of the Association, 
selected from each church in which there are Members belonging to 
the Association. It shall be the duty of each member of this Commit- 
tee to make himself acquainted with the young men in his particular 
congregation, especially strangers, and invite them to become Mem- 
bers of the Association. He shall report on all applications for mem- 
bership referred to him. He shall convey to new Members their certi- 
ficates of election and cards of membership, collect their dues, and la- 
bor to induce them to attend the regular meetings of the Association. 
He shall also, when called upon, notify the Members of special meetings. 
It shall be the duty of the Chairman to see that each Member of this 
Committee fulfils his duties. The Chairman Shall also report the labors 
of his Associates to the General Committee. 


ARTICLE IV. 
MEETINGS. 


1.—The Committee shall meet for business on the second Monday 
of each month; five to form a quorum, 

2.—Meetings of the Association for reading essays, for debates, con- 
versation on religious subjects, devotional exercise, or lectures, shall 
be held as often as practicable. As far as practicable, meetings, shall 
commence at eight o’clock and close at ten. 

3.—Business meetings of this Association shall take place monthly 
on the Tuesday succeeding the second Monday in each month (being 
the first day of meeting, after the meeting of General Committee), 
Nine to form a quorum. 

4.—That, at the other meetings of the Association during the month, 
no business be transacted other than proposing, ballotting for, and re- 
ceiving new Members. 

5.—Special meetings of the Committee may be called at the option of 
the President, or at’ the request of three Members of the Committee. 
Special meetings of the Association shall be held at the written request 
of ten members, or at the option of the President. 

6.—Any officer or member of Committee absenting himself from three 
consecutive regular meetings of the Committee, without sufficient rea- 
son, shall vacate his office. All vacancies shall be filled by the Commit- 
tee. 


33 


LIBRARY RULES. 


SzoTion 1. ) 

A Member, upon application to the Librarian, may take out one 
volume from the Library, or he may remove both volumes of any work 
comprised in two volumes of duodecimo or smaller, size, and return the 
same within two weeks; at the expiration of which time (should no ap- 
plication for the same work have been made in the meantime) an exten- 
sion of one week shall be given, if desired; but no longer. 


SEcTION 2. 

The Library Committee shall have power to limit the time of reten- 
tion of new books, during the first six months after being added to the 
Library, which time shall be marked on the covers ; and they shall have 
power also to withhold from circulation such volumes or periodicals as 
may be injured thereby. 

Section 3. 


If at the expiration of the time specified in Sections 1 and 2, for the 
retention of any book or books, the same be not returned, the sum of five 
cents shall be imposed and demanded: for every week so retained, and a 
retention of two days over the stipulated time shall incur the same penalty. 


SECTION 4. 

If any Member shall refuse to pay the amount of any of the fine or 
fines which may be assessed him, his right to remove books from the 
Library shall be suspended until he complies with the regulations. 

Section 5. 

If any Member shall lose or deface a volume, he shall replace the 
same, or present an equivalentin money. If it be one of a set, he shall 
receive the odd volumes at a fair appraisal, or make ample recompense. 

SECTION 6. 

All books shall be returned one week previous to 1st of November, 
for yearly examination, 

SECTION 7. 


No person shall be allowed to take out a book on another’s account 
without a written order, and if any books are taken without such order, 
the Librarian shall be held accountable therefor. 


SECTION 8. 

The books in Reference Library shall not be taken from the Rooms 
on any account whatever. 

SECTION 9. 

None but the Librarian or his substitute shall be permitted to remove 
books from the shelves. 

Section 10. 

The hours for the issue of books shall be as follows: Reference 
Library at any time between the hours of 9 A.M. and 9 P.M., and the cir- 
culating Library, from 12 Noon to 2 P.M., and from 6 to 9 P.M., daily 
(Sundays excepted.) 

SECTION 11. 

No Member shall be permitted to remove books from the Circulating 

Library until he has signed the Library Rules. 


E 


34 


RULES FOR GUIDANCE OF COTTAGE 
MEETINGS. 


1st.—The Chairman of each District shall establish 
as Imany meetings as possible within his District, and 
shall, with the concurrence of the Mission Committee, 
appoint a Vice-Chairman to each. 


2nd.—District Chairman shall report monthly to the 
Mission Committee the attendance at all meetings, and 
any facts of interest in connection with them. 


érd.—Hymn Books, or any other property of the 
Association, used in connection with the Cottage Meet- 
ings, shall be under the charge of the District Chairman, 
who shall be responsible for them to the Mission Com- 
mittee. 


4th.—District Chairman shall not authorize any 
outlay in connection with the meetings without pre- 
vious reference to the Mission Committee. 


5th.—The Vice-Chairman or District Chairman 


shall be present at each meeting, assisted by at least one 
member of the District Committee. 


6th.—The meetings shall be opened punctually 
at the hour appointed, and shall not exceed one hour in 
duration. 


tth.—The remarks and devotional exercises shall 
be brief and plain. 


N.B,—The Mission Committee earnestly recommend 
the careful visitation of the Districts. 


PAPERS AND PERIODICALS IN THE 
READING ROOM. 


PAPERS. 


Alliance News. 
American Missionary. 
British Workman. 
“  Workwoman. 
Band of Hope Review. 
British Messenger. 
«Ensign. 
Be! a Bie 
Canada Observer. 

‘“ Christian Advocate. 
Christian Advocate and Journal. 
Canadian Baptist. 
Christian Guardian. 
Cottager. 

Echo. 

Evangelist. 
Harper’s Weekly. 
Tilustrated Times. 

é News of the World. 
London Morning Star. 
Montreal Daily Witness. 

6c Gazette. 

&é Herald. 

New York Tribune. 
Old Jonathan. 
Scientific American. 
Toronto Globe. 


PERIODICALS AND MAGAZINES. 


Anti-Tobacco Journal. 
British Controversialist, 
Book, and its Missions. 
Baptist Reporter. 
Biblical Treasury. 

Bible é 

Bible Class Magazine, 
Christian Treasury. 
Canadian Naturalist. 


Churchman’s Family Magazine. 
Christian Witness. 
s World. 
Chutch of England Temperance 
Magazine. 
Churchman’s Penny Magazine. 
Chambers’ Journal. 
Choir, or Musical Record. 
Children’s Friend. 
Eclectic, & Congregational Rev’w. 
English Presbyterian Messenger. 
Evangelical Christendom. 
Good Words. 
“ News. 
Home and Foreign Record. | 
Journal of Board of Arts, of U.C. 
Jewish Herald. 
London City Missionary Magazine 
Leisure Hour. 
Lower Canada Agriculturist. 
Melisra. 
Missionary Magazine. 
+ Record of United Pres- 
byterian Church. 
Missionary Herald. . 
Methodist New Connex. Magazine 
Our Own Fireside. 
Penny Pulpit. 
Pleasant Hours: 
Quiver. 
Sunday at Home. 
Stamp Collector's Magazine. 
Sunday Magazine. 
Social Science Review. 
Temple Anecdotes. 
The Presbyterian. 
Union Magazine for 8.8. Teachers 
Wesleyan Methodist Magazine. 
i Missionary Notices. 


36 


LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS 


TO THE CITY MISSION—1864. 


; — " 


- Zion Cuurcwr. 
Collected by C. R. Black. 


Charles Alexander . .$40.00 
John Dougall & Co... 40.00 
W.R. Hibbard...... 20.00 
- P.Otark 3. 2. eit 20.00 
R. C. Jamieson ...... 90.00 
Savage & Lyman.... 20.00 
Mrs. Henry Lymaa .. 20.00 
N.S. Whitney....... 20.00 
DD. TOWIS oe ce. E 20.00 
George Winks ....... 20.00 
James Baylis........ 10.00 
Te Re 10.00 
- W. Wood Viittt a. 0.00 
William McDougall.. 10.00 
William Niven...... 10.00 
-O. Buchanan..... 12.90 
Henry Lyman’)... 40. 10.00 
A. W. Hood:......... 5.00 
Mrs. William Lama 5.00 
A. McK. Cochrane... 5.00 
C. H. Smithers....... 5.00 
W. Notman.......... 5.00 
James Williamson... 5.00 
Henry Vennor....... 5.00 
Wis eee ay 5.00 
William Learmont 5.00 
He. Wig at 2. wick oho « nin 5.00 
ED, DOUBEBs..cluicce des 5.00 
A. Savage .....seess. 5.00 
J. W. Howes........; 5.00 
AGEL EO 8) eee 5.00 
 AULGMINS ......,.. 5.00 
Mr. Mosax...i..0¢284 2 00 
Thomas Robertson 2.00 
H. Chandler......... 2.00 
J.S. McLachlan..... 2.00 
J. B. Sutherland..... 2.00 
. Learmont...... 2.00 
Alexander Arthur 2.00 
George Perry ........ 2.00 
George Denholm..... 2.00 
T) Routh... it. alk 2.00 
Le Rls PEMTNOD 0's » scenes 2.00 
Js POISIOW +. o.+livc, . 1.00 
Jd. Paxtonees oo. nett 1.00 
Le MiOlark®\..c. i, ov 1.00 
$412.90 


First Baptist Cuurcn. 
Collected by T. J. Claxton. 


T. James Claxton. ...$40.00 
Thomas M. Thomson 20.00 


William Ewan....... 10.00 
William Muir........ 10.00 
As MM. Voster. 33.655 10.00 
James Thomson..... 10.00 


J.C. Lonsdale .. 


Kemp & Co.......... $10.00 
James Muir.......... 5.00 
rs. James Muir . 5.00 
enry Rogers, Esq., it 5.00 
(Wolverhampton). 
James Foley......... 5.00 
Og TE ae areal 5.00 
EK. V. Mosely ........ 5.00 
G.M. Soule.......... 5.00 
James Milne......... 5.00 
Heron, Dickson & Co., 5.00 


(Glasgow)........0. 


John Kennedy....... 5. 00 
WPA GS hos Ae ve eles 5.00 
Geo. Vair (Belleville) 5. 00 
00, San DE ee a 4.00 
James Ewan......... 4.00 
KE. Wiman........... 4.00 
David Bentley....... 3.00 
James Whitham..... 3.00 
DOR PACE sicko vaes ac 3.00 
John Dunn.......... 2.00 
William Craven ..... 1.50 


Cash perR.Kneeshaw  .25 
$204.75 


Collected by T. J. Claxton. 


By Bomog 6b db sceeides $10.00 
James Hutton ....... 10.00 
James Ogilvy........ 5.00 
Gault ay & Co.. 5.00 
Rv Wiolfi). 05 SAS 5.00 
J. & T. "Cavachill 5.00 
ae RS eae 5.00 
Thomas Workman... 5.00 
Morland, Watson & Co. 5.00 
enry Thomas ease 5.00 
& W. Robertson.. 5.00 
John Fraser ......... 5.00 
De B. MacDonald... 5.00 
Charles Blackman... 5.00 
Thomas Davidson... 5.00 
William Workman . 5.00 
James Benning...... 5.00 
William Hobbs...... 4.00 
Crathern a Sargent 2.00 
Os be PERT eo dk oc 2.00 
Dr. “hs, niga nveee ea wae 2.00 
Thomas Mussen ..... 2.00 
John Rhynas........ 2.00 
Robert TE 00E i sss nip 1.00 
James Parkin....... 1.00 
$111.00 


AMERICAN PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH. 


Collected by E. K. Greene. 
Benjamin Lyman... . $25.00 


Corse & May........ 5.00 
Alexander Milloy... 95.00 
George Hagar......, 25.00 
Nelson & Wood..... 25.00 
J.McLennan........ 95.00 
. Greene. ...s... 25.00 

P. D. Browne....... 10.00 
J. ames Holiday...... 10.00 
Chaltigsnul)... 5.00 

Mie PAIR Ci dy 5.00 
Clarke Fitts ........ 5.00 
G. W. Reed ai.. (1). 00 
John Murphy ....... 5.00 
Oe Ay CURE lie cca 5.00 
J.B.Stevenson...... 5.00 
Geo. Brush... .... 4 00 
Geo. W. Brush...... 4.00 
Prowse & McFarlane 3.00 
Cash,:N.'0..G.....,.. 2.00 
Cash, H. W. A...... 2.00 
OG 24h SRO... wk.) +4 


$249.50 


Coté Street C. P. Cuurcn. 
Collected by J. Ross. 


James Court......... $20.00 
Robert Anderson..... 10.(0 
John Redpath ....... 10.10 
. Torrance...... 10.0v 

Jos. McKay & Bro... 10.00 
James Ross. .... 00s. “10.60 
John Stirling........, 5.00 
P.. Redpath ssw. Yi, 5.00 
he EBON ob o-oo: 1cu 6 esd 5.C0 
AP Walker: 523052 se 5.00 
William Brown...:.. 5.00 
C. C. McDougall..... 5.00 
D. MoOrried, cas acs 3 4.(0 
C. Snowdon....... 2.00 
John Watson ........ 2.10 
. H. MeVicar....... 0 
Ww. C. Munderloh.. 2.00 
Samuel Holmes...... 2.00 
MLTR Be... DY 2.00 
Wo OOMDOR soe eee 2.00 
John Cenpbell baa 2.00 
s POQSUBOR « asen sce 2.00 

A. Stevenson......... 2.00 
ash REN PP ey fre Ne PEE Tb 92.10 
William Grange..... 1.50 
es OEM AN es dieu gud 1.00 
H. L. Snowdon ...... .00 
Thomas Davidson 1.00 


° eee eee ssesreeno 


A. McGoun.........- 1.00 
John Baillie ......... 1.00 
Colin Cameron .....- 1.00 
George Steele......-- 1.00 
. B. Hamilton ..... 1.00 
A ©. Sutherland.... 1.00 
James Davison.....- .00 
(RE SS 1.00 
J. H. Mooney.....->- 1.00 
D. McDougall ......- 1.00 
ONO LT 1.00 
Ca oh See eal ges cies 1.00 
Cash, 50c.; Cash, 50c. 1.00 
Cash, SMF Bio .a0s 25 
$144.75 


WESLEYAN UHURCH, GREAT 
Sr. JAMES STREET. 


Collected by Messrs. Dutton 
and Middlemiss. 
AS sha BT nods 5 2s ‘igs 
Bry Sa Be) 40.00 
a egataee 
J. Jun. . 
poe Pees ais. 2h 6 10.00 
R. Holland ......++-- 10.00 
J. H. Henderson....- 5.00 
J.E. Dutton.......-- 5.00 
G. D. Ferrier ...-.--: 5.00 
J. Hardman....-+->- 5.00 
BRAS ica cata a pots 8.4: #18 5.00 


du Te ces sckbae ene 5.00 
Js FRtOORi id UN, |. 56's 4.00 
John Brandon....... 4.00 
T. C ere eee error seeeese 3.00 
SUMTER Sina alae sos weitnicn 2.00 
Pe Sa 2.00 
Cea cubes <5. sahara 1.00 
Henry Empey........ 1.00 
een a 1.00 

‘| A Friend ......ceeee. 1.00 
PS ON Ra oF 50 
$129.50 


Dr. TAyLor’s CouRCH(C.P.) 


Collected by Messrs. 
Thomson and McKenzie. 
Warden King........ $10.00 
George Rogers ....... 10.00 
Andrew Robertson... 5.00 
Js OGRION Ss ss Stas 5.00 
D. McFarlane ....... 3.00 
John Watson ........ 8.00 
W. Rutherford....... 2.00 

 PRONMEI. 325.0 hes t ' 2.00 
James Breese rer: 2.00 
‘i, Paton seh sey ory es 2.00 
do) Dakers. <erer 2 ce 2.00 
Johnson Tuoiiaeh”. 1.50 
Samuel Woods....... .50 
James Walker....... 1.50 


BE DiGi vas Ov widen ves 1.00 
J PROMO. 4 + 6.5 +e 1.00 
D. McKay «.+-++++0+- 1.00 
—— Fairbaim....... 1.00 
J.C. McLaren....... 1.00 
ACU AIA ns s'els'nio Unies 1.00 
James Ross..+.++++- 1.00 

$07.50 


St. Pavci’s CHURCH. 
Collected by vs Pei 
Geo. Stephen. $5.00 
James J obnston - Sides 
William Darling..... 
J. Wor eenshields, Son i 00 


erereeeveevrerene 


Robert Muir......... 5.00 
SF A NEUDBB »:0-0's sob Sheih 0% 5.00 
OT POMRMIUE EN «bc se ote 9 5.00 
Alex. Bantin 61/0... ed 5.00 
We Re trodrs is. 00% 1.00 
George Templeton... 1.00 

$42.00 

St. GABRIEL-ST. CHURCH. 

George Cruickshank. $4.00 
Archd. Swan........ 2.00 

$6.00 


38 


MEMBERS OF THE ASSOCIATION. 


ACTIVE MEMBERS. 


Alexander, Charles 
in, James 

Atwater, H. W. 
Aubin, Thomas 
Ahern, William 
Banfield, William 
Baylis, Jas. 
Baylis, J. 8S. 
Bazin, J. A. 
Bentley. D. 
Brush, George S. 
Browne. P. D. 
. YT 

uchanan, W. O. 
Blachford, W. H. A. 
Bennett, Wm. 


Bennett, Wm. 
Beckersteith, — 
Bishop, George 
Brown, Allan 
Burke, Corporal 
Burns, Corporal 
Boyd, Thomas 
Clark, Jas. P. 
Claxton, T. James 
Childs, George 
Cooper, William 
Campbell, John 
Cruikshanks, George 
Crane, Thos. A. 
Cochrane, A. McK. 
Cushing, Lemuel 
Clendinning, Wm. 
Clare, Henry 
Calder, George 
Crawford, George 
Cooley, William 
Croile, Jas. B. 
Cowper, Alex. 
Clarke, Geo. W. - 
Cameron, A. H. 
Cooper, John , 
Craig, Thomas 
Coyle, Edward 
Caron, Charles 
Drummond, W. H. 
DeWitt, Jacob 
DeWitt, Caleb S. 
Dougall, James D. 
Dougall, J. Redpath 
Darey, P. J. 
Duncan, Alex. 
Dutton, J. E. 
Dutton, W. C. 
Drummond, C. G. B. 
Dunlop, Charles 
Dier, Joseph 
Donnelly, John 
Duff, Morrell 


Dickson, W. 
English, S. 
Eastwood, W. 
Evans, Alfred 
Klliott, Alfred ‘ 
Evans, R. A., Lieut. 


Franklin, W. T 
Fryer, Thomas 
Fraser, John A. 
Fraser, William I. 
Ford, Thomas 
Ford, L. W. 
Filer, George 
Flemming, D. A. 
Foote, Alfred 
Ferrie, Archibald 
Ferguson, Patrick 
Gault, A. F 
Grafton, F. E. 
Greene, EK. K. 
Greene, N, 0. 
Greene, J.S. 
Gorton, Samuel 
Griffith, Sinclair 
Grace, John 
Gordon, J. 
Glover, T. 
Hibbard, W. R. 
Holland, R. W. 
Holiday, James 
Holiday, William 
Holiday, Andrew 
Hines, J. 
Herbert, Thomas 
Harwood, W. T. 
Hutton, Samuel 
Henderson, James 
Hardie, Wm. 
Haldane, James 
Horsfall, Richard 
Holland, R. A. 
Hyde, Richard | 
Henderson, Daniel 
Herrick, Ezra 
Hector, R. G. 
Howden, J. G. 
Hutchins, Thos. 
Hare, Arthur 
Hood, Peter 
Haskett, S. J. 
Hobson, Thos. 
Irwin, Robt. 
Ireland, Wm. 
Jamieson, R. C. 
ones, Thos. 
Jaques, George E. 
Jackson, Alfred 
Jardine, James 
Johnson, William 


Jones, H. A. 
Judge, Edgar 
Jamieson, John 
Jones, Corporal 
Kyte, Stephen 
King, Warden 
Kneeshaw, Robert 
Kirkpatrick, J. E. 
Kingsbury, S. 
Kitchener, C. F. J. 
Kennedy, John 
Kellogg, James FE. 
Leeming, Thomas 
Learmont, J. B. 
Landers, John 
Lowden, Alex. 
Lonsdale, J. C. 
Lyman, E. 8. 
Lindsay, George 
Leggatt, James 
Luttrell, Richd. 
Littler, George 
Lee, John 
Lewis, John 
Laurie, Thomas 
Leslie, George 
Massey, Samuel 
Muir, Wm. 
Muir, James 
Muir, George B. 
Murphy, John 
Mochrie, George 
Miller, Adam 
Masterman, Wm. 
Milloy, A. 
May, S. H. 
Mills, Robert 
oseley, E. 
unro, Chas. 
Millen, Hy. 
Middlemiss, J. R. 
orris, J. L. 
Montgomery, R. 
Mess, Frank W. 
Moffatt, D. 
Marsh, Jas. H. 
aurice, Wm. 
Montgomery, Wm. 
Morrell, J. L. 
Moore, Robert J. 
orrison, J. B. 
McDougall, Colin C. 
McLaren, Harry. 
MeWatters, William 
McDougall, John 
McIntosh, John 
McFarlane, David 
McLeod, Norman 
McKenzie, David 
McDonogh, James 
McLaughlin, J. 
McMillan, D. 


39 


cec<suctosniecisibaalin i nai iit TA EL TTD OEE DAT et nent ny aaron, 


—=__S_H OW! 


McAdam, J. 
Nelson, H. A. 
Nimmo, Charles 
Norberry, John 
Nelson, H. D. 
Oliver, R. 8S. 
Oldall, Wrna 
Paterson, J ames 
Plymister, James 
Philips, of egg 
Parslow, John 
Pyke, H. G. 
Patterson, W. J. 
Perry, Wm. 

Perry, George 
Porteous, W. S. 
Porteous, C. A. 
Poole, Peter T. 
Pollock, Philander 
Pratt, Alexander 
Purdy, W. T. 
Parker, Moses 
Paterson, Peter 
Rielle, Jos. 
Rutherford, William 
Ross, P. 8S. 
Reddy. Dr. 

Reed, S. W. 

Ross, James 
Robertson, James 
Reid, William 
Robertson, Andrew 
Robertson, Thomas 
Roach, Walter 
Rogers, E. 


Scott, S. B. 

Scott, A. 
Stevenson, J. 
Simpson, Thomas 
Sargison, George A. 
Soule, G. 
Sutherland, co 
Sutherland, J. Be 
Sievewright, A. M. 
Stark, C. A. 
Starke, Edward 
Sandham, Frederick 
Sandham, Alfred 
Sandham, Henry 
Stubbs, Joseph 
Smith, George 
Smith, H. J. 
Shepstone, G. E. 
Spiers, R. A 
Spiers, J 4 * Ss. 
Spiers, P. 
Stockford, William: 
Symington, Thomas 
Swan, John 
Stewart, James 
Somerville, A. M. 
Squires, William 
Sweet, A. P. 
Standish, Robert 
Torrance, John 
Turton, Thomas 
Thompson, E. 
Thompson, John 
Thompson, Robert 
Thompson, W. 


Telfer, John 
Torrington, F. H. 
Tees, David 
Turnbull, John 
Turnbull, Robert 
Turnbull, V WwW. W. 
Trenholme, N. W. 
Trenholme, R. G. 
Trenaman, John 
Thomas, W. R. 
Thomas, R. T. 
Thomas, W. 
Torry, John 
Vipond, T. S. 
Vennor, H. G. 
Vollar. W. 

Watt, D. A. P. 
Wardsworth, Frederick 
Wardsworth, Henry 
Wyard, J. Morley 
Watson, Alex. 
Wethay, Edgar 
Welsh, J. H. M. 
Welsh, D. H. 
Whitney, N.S. 
Wilson, J. 
Woodcock, A. 
Warnock, John §. 
Wood, P. W. 
Wolff, C. 

Wright, E. 
Witham, J. 

Shee James 
Young, John 
Yuill, William 


ASSOCIATE MEMBERS. 


Angus, William 
Allan, John 
Allan, Joseph 
Austin, W. H. 
Abraham, A. 
Beers, George W. 
Boyd, 

Brookes, Henry 
Berrisford. W. H. 
Brymner, D. A 
Brewster, W. 
Blair, Robert 
Camphell, Kenneth 
Clarke, J. T. 
Christie, C. T. 
Cameron, Colin 
Costigan, William 
Churchill, John 
Crawford, David 
Clark, James 
Clarke, John 
Cooper, James 


Cunningham, Wm. 
Drysdale, William 
Dunwoodie. Francis 
Ewan, William 
Fletcher, John 
Filer, Rufus 
Greene, George 
Greene, Lonsdale 
Gardner. 

Gregor, Thomas Ss. 
Gatehouse, John M. 
Hamilton. Alex. 
Hutton, D. C. 
Holland. Samuel 
Irvine, H. 

Kee, Matthew 
Kittson, George A. 
Larmonth, W. D. 
Luscombe, Thomas 
Lobb, James 
Mackay, A. 
McDonald, John 


McDonald, Alex. 
McDougall, Duncan 
ec bit ‘Richard 
MeMillan, D. 
McGie, Allan 
Munro, Alex. 
Nelson, A. D. 
Prynne, Michael 
Paxton, Samuel 
Paterson, John 
Reed, T. D., Jr. 
Redpath, F. R. 
Robinson, Thomas 
Ransom, Howard 
Sharp, John 
Stewart, David 
Sheriffs, John J. 
ieee ed Charles 
Tomkins, J 
Topley, W. 
Wanless, W. 
Wyman, EH. 


