REPORT 


OF THE 


} , {. 
ontreal {Joung flew’ atin I ssociation, 


ADOPTED AT THE 


ANNUAL MEETING, 


HELD ON 


] UESDAY FVENING, 22ND NOVEMBER, 1890. 
é 


OFFICERS FOR THE YEAR 1871. 


PRESIDENT.—T. JAMES CLAXTON. 


VICE-PRESIDENTS. 
GEO. YOUNG. JAMES ROSS. 
R. M. BARNARD. A. H. CAMERON, 


SECRETARY.—A. SANDHAM. 
TREASURER. — THOMAS CRAIG. 


COMMITTEE. 
J. A. BAZIN. H. WATSON. 
A. S. WOOD. A. H. LOWDEN. 
D. BENTLEY. F. J. KELLAR, 
C. Ss. J}. PHILULEES. P. i; BURTOM, 
G. BISHOP. W. J. B. PATERSON. 
H. MORGAN. W. C. DUTTON. 
R. McCALLUM. 8: CALDECOTT; 
DR: BELL. 
MONTREAL } 


J. STARKE & CO., PRINTERS, ST. FRANCOIS XAVIER STREET. .- 


STANDING COMMITTEES 


Appointed December 3rd, 1870. 


MEMBERSHIP, ROOMS AND LIBRARY. 


Be. VARS Stee) 0 aaa: 


A. S. Woop, J. Ross, 
A. H. CAMERON, Dr. BELL, 
MISSION. 

A. EV MOWDEN. oo aie  SChaivman. 
W. C. Dutton, H. Morcan, 
R. McCa.Lium, W. J. B. PATTERSON, 
FINANCE. 


G. YOUNGS Pah ie Mao PC heivman: 
S. CALDECOTT, Dr. J. A. BAzIn. 


LECTURES, CLASSES AND MEETINGS. 


Ge. BESHOB ee he vo eee 
Pr.) |.) RELLAR, D. BENTLEY, 
P, H. BurTon, R. M. BARNARD, 


BOARDING HOUSE. 


C. S.J. PHILLIPS, 2.) |.) (Chairman: 
R. McCattum, A. SANDHAM. 


THE NINETEENTH 


ANNUAL REPORT 


OF THE 


Montreal Young Men’s Christian Association. 


LRM PEL ar aS rita 
DEAR BRETHREN, 


Another year has just closed, and it becomes my 
duty as President to submit to you on behalf of the General Com- 
mittee their Nineteenth Annual Report, and while the history of the 
Association during the past year has not been marked by any impor- 
tant changes, still we find abundant cause for renewed thanks to 
God for the measure of success which has attended our labors, and 
for some outward signs of favor which He has granted. We have 
testimony that God has made our Association the means in His hand 
of pointing some young men to the Saviour. Tor this we are thank- 
ful, and feel encouraged in our work, depending for future success on 
Him who has promised that “in due season we shall reap if we faint 
not.’’ Hach succeeding year tends to impress more fully upon our 
minds the importance of the work committed to’ our hands as an 
Association. Seeing the vast number of young men who are flocking 


to our City, some in search of employment, others to enter our Schools 


and Colleges, we are painfully impressed that our efforts for their 
salvation fall far short of the devices and snares which Satan and his 
emissaries have set for their ruin. Therefore, while acknowledging 
with gratitude our entire dependence upon God and with thanksgiving 
for the prosperity vouchsafed to us during the past year; it becomes 


‘our bounden duty in the future to direct our efforts more exclusively 


to Young Men, seeking them out as they come strangers to our City, 
assisting in procuring proper boarding houses—interesting ourselves in 
helping to find suitable employment—introducing them to friends 
whose influence will be for good—giving them a welcome to our 


4 


comfortable rooms—making them at home at our meetings, and 
seeing that they are introduced to the Pastors or leading brethren of 
the Churches which they attend; keeping always in view that our 
object is the developement of ingiieed Christian character and 
activity—the promotion of evangelical religion—supplying the wants 
‘of the destitute, and the improvement of the mental and spiritual 
condition of our young men. 

The prosperity which by God’s blessing has attended our efforts 
in the past, gives promise of greater success in the future, if we are 
faithful to the trust committed to us, and will improve the oppor- 
tunities granted us. Still we need individually to realise our personal 
responsibility to God in this work, and to consecrate ourselves afresh 
to his service, laying everything upon the altar of sacrifice. “ Be ye 
steadfast, unmoveable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for 
as much as ye know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord.” 


BUILDING FUND. 
“ Unless the Lord build the house, they labor in vain that build it.” 


In referring to the new building enterprise now so fairly before 
the public, I need not speak of the necessity which exists for this 
home in which, not only our own work may be more efficiently carried 
on, but in which other religious societies may have accommodation. 
The cordial manner in which the scheme has been received by all 
classes of the community clearly shows, not only that the building is 
felt to be a necessity, but also that the needed funds will be cheerfully 
contributed. On more than one occasion in the past, efforts have 
been made to attain this object, but on each occasion circumstances | 
arose shewing clearly the time had not come. On the visit of our 
Bro. K. A. Burnell of Chicago, in September last, when holding some 
special meetings under the auspices of our Association, the present 
movement was inaugurated, and at a public meeting held on the 
evening of the 28th September, a subscription was opened, which, at 
the close of the meeting, amounted to $13,301; additional subserip- 
tions have since been added, making the present amount promised for 
this enterprise about $25,000. 

On the 6th of October, your Association appointed Messrs. 

T. James Claxton, H. K. Greene, H. A. Nelson, C. Alexander, 
N. 8. Whitney, T. Craig, and W. Clendinneng, as provisional 
directors until an Act of Incorporation, which has been applied 


5 


for, could be obtained, and permanent directors appointed. Arrange- 
ments have been made whereby we secure the hearty co-operation of 
the different religious societies, now united in the building at present 
occupied by us. 

The offer of the Association to provide a free depository for the 
Bible and other societies, was cordially accepted ; and the various 
societies in return heartily endorsed our efforts, by passing resolutions, 
and appointing collectors to co-operate with those appointed by your 
Association. The provisional board of directors, after mature con- 
sideration, has decided upon purchasing the property forming the 
corner of Craig and Radegonde Streets, a prominent and eligible site. 
We have received cheering offers of gratuitous services, in connection 
with the erection and embellishment of the proposed building, from 
various parties. 

In conclusion, we would ask you earnestly to pray that God may 
bless the work of our hands; and that the building to be erected may 
be devoted exclusively to His service in our work for young men. 

That the working of this Association may be more clearly laid 
before you, I present the reports of the several sub-committees, which 
treat fully upon the various fields of labor occupied by us. 


MISSION COMMITTEE. 
W. C. Dutton, Chairman. 


During the past winter six cottage meetings were held in different 
parts of the City, some of which were continued until the opening of 
navigation. ‘These meetings are intended to reach the “ ninety and 
nine ’’ of those who are outside the pale of either Sabbath School or 
public worship, and who, in many cases, would never attend any other 
religious service. Instances of good have been revealed to us by 
grateful attendants; but we expect that ‘“ the day will declare’’ what 
we know not, of many wanderers from the fold of Christ, having, by 
these means been brought to a sense of sin, and to feel their need of 
a Saviour. 

The opening of navigation directed our attention to the work 
among seamen. In this department the services of our members are 
principally available in tract distribution. To facilitate this work, the 
Harbor was divided into nine districts, to each of which was assigned 
a sufficient staff of distributors, and a regular system of visitation was 
carried on every Sabbath morning. In this way 12,555 tracts, equal 


6 


to 50,000 pages, have been distributed. These were principally 
English and French, but 2 small number of foreign tracts being used. 
In addition to the distribution of tracts, the young men carried a supply 
of hand-bills inviting the sailors to the Bethel services, and to the 
meetings in the Sailors’ Institute. In this connection we are happy 
to note that the Institute has been productive of great good during the 
past season, and a greater interest has been manifested by the sailors 
who have more numerously attended it. The tracts were well received, 
and in but few instances were they refused. JI am happy to report 
that the captains and sailors unanimously agree that they are better 
eared for in Montreal, than in any other port to which they sail. Let 
us hoye that the efforts made in their behalf may prove beneficial to 
their eternal welfare. Bethel services have been regularly held each 
Sabbath afternoon, and in this work our missionary has received 
valuable aid from the ministers of the City. 


During part of the season an open air service was held upon the 
wharf, commencing at 6 p.m., and lasting one hour. These services 
were conducted by members of the Association, and it is believed with 
some success. 


During the winter months our missionary Mr. Millen, was 
engaged in aiding the Relief Committee of the House of Refuge, 
but on the opening of navigation he entered upon his labor of 
daily visitation among the seamen, and he. speaks in the most 
pleasing manner as to the reception he has met with. He has also 
continued his religious services in the Hospital. The following is a 
summary of his year’s labors :— 


APR (vei CIS ELE DP ULLOUE 5300 Ghd abi Sisto Wid a owen bile! Wduldtalaw ae olitiales 8861 
Visits to Families and tothe Bick yo :scis cise a0 oS ted 1362 
Visits to Benevolent Institutions... sic... eieies +s sie cnieies 146 
Religious Services held in General Hospital .......... 73 
OTS ESS War AE IRIE SO IN Org GE PRR a SR) A 1110 
Mission Prayer Meetings held. ...... ....-. .e¢. es 20 
PR TUCANO ee cdl old kin Che RAN VIN Vee aie ee be Flawed 204 
SHIPS VIBIUCE nc ees ce sets Ue bee ales ae whee wel anes ee 391 
Pathe] Services Welds oo iie8 ce Rae Paes oe ieee se ed ials 26 
EET) ee a hd sal ie Geleie Mepaed eiein fie wilh el aba Sete p lk 1842 
BP avA LIOR VOM ROE hess 6 iiidins\a io dokla sine eb eine) oe 5a Sach 120 


Mr. Millen’s diary is replete with incidents of interest, and 
while he meets with much to discourage, there is also ample room for 
the belief that his labors have not been in vain. 


MEMBERSHIP, ROOMS, AND LIBRARY COMMITTER, 
Huen Watson, Chairman. 


MrmBersuip.—The Committee reports 183 new members added 
during the year. Deducting those who have left the City, or who 
from other causes have ceased to be members, we have now a member- 
ship of 351 active, 226 associate, 34 honorary, and 13 life members, 
making.a total of 624, or an actual increase of 74 over last year. 
We feel gratified at being able to report an increase, still we feel that 
were a little effort put forth, the numbers might be greatly increased. 


For the purpose of securing the correct registration of the mem- 
bership, a new roll book has been opened, in which may be seen at a 
glance all particulars relating to each member. The Constitution 
and By-laws have also been engrossed, and new members are now 
required to sign the same, and every possible means are taken to 
secure the accurate working of this department. 


Rooms.—Shortly after the last Annual Meeting the rooms were 
thoroughly renovated and carpeted, and the air of neatness and com- 
fort thus furnished, has tended to an increase in the daily attendance, 
which now averages 120, exclusive of meetings. Thanks are due to 
Messrs. Notman, Inglis, A. Craig, B. Deacon, and other friends, for 
pictures and decorations furnished by them free of charge. 


We are now in receipt of 7 daily, 1 tri-weekly, 24 weekly, 61 
monthly, and 1 quarterly, publications (a list of which will be found 
on the next page), and it has been decided to add a number of leading 
English and American dailies to the list. 

Liprary.—The library has been well used; over 2000 volumes 
have been issued from the circulating library, while the reference 
library has received a fair share of attention, particularly by the class 
for whom it is intended. An addition of 364 volumes has been made 
to the circulating library, of which 324 were given by the President; 
for the remainder we are indebted to the Hon. P. J. O. Chauveau, 
23 vols; W. C. Menzies, Hsq., 12 vols.; John Dougall & Son, 3 
vols. ; George Bishop & Co., 1 vol.; and Dingman & Co., New York, 
1 vol. Our room is far too limited for the proper arrangement of 
these books, but the prospect we have of securing larger premises, 
forbids any expense being incurred at present. A new supplementary 
catalogue is now in course of preparation. 


8 


LIST OF PAPERS AND PERIODICALS IN 
READING ROOM. 


Damy,—Herald, Witness, News, Gazette, Le Pays, Toronto Telegraph, 
Toronto Globe. 


Tri-W BEKLY:—Quebec Gazette. 


Werxiy.—Canadian Illustrated News, Illustrated London News, Penny 
Illustrated Paper, Harpers Weekly, Scientific American, The Christian, 
Glasgow League Journal, Canadian Baptist, Beaverton Expositor, Canada 
Casket, The Revolution, New York Independent, Manchester Guardian, 
Christian Guardian, Evangelical Witness, New York Tribune, United 
States Economist, The Evangelist, Waterloo Advertiser, Canada Scotsman, 
L’Aurore, Alliance News, Brantford Courier, Harpers Magazine, 


Monruty.—British Workman, Band of Hope Review, British J uvenile, 
Old Jonathan, Cottager and Artisan, Missionary News, Journal of Educa- 
tion (Prov. of Quebec), Journal de L’Instruction de Quebec, Journal of 
Education (Prov. of Ontario), Sunday School Times, Association Monthly, 
National Temperance Advocate, Sunshine, Good Cheer, Family Friend, 
Sunday School Messenger, Children’s Friend, Youth’s Temperance Banner, 
Record of Christian Work (Philadelphia), Good Words (New York), The 
Bulwark, Pleasant Hours, Christian at Work, Young Men’s Advocate, 
Animal World, Chicago Standard, British Herald, Chambers’ Journal, 
The Presbyterian, Sunday at Home, Good Words (London), Quiver, 
New Dominion Monthly, Canadian Messenger, Churchman’s Family 
Magazine, Christian Treasury, Methodist New Connexion Magazine, Literary 
World, Our Own Fireside, People’s Magazine, Kind Words, Missionary 
Herald, Christian Work, Chatterbox, Wesleyan Methodist Magazine, Chris- 
tian World Magazine, Family Treasury, Golden Hours, Scribner's Monthly, 
Journal of Dental Science, Church of England Temperance Magazine, Sun- 
day School Magazine, Early Days, Sunday Teacher's Treasury, The Hive, . 
Sunday School World, Missionary Juvenile Offering, Sunday Magazine, 
American Missionary, Christian Miscellany, 


QuarTERLY.—The Quarterly of the London Young Men’s Christian 
Association. 


COMMITTEE ON LECTURES, CLASSES, AND 
MEETINGS. 


L. Cusuine, Chairman. 


Believing that a course of lectures could not be sustained with 
any degree of success, the Committee decided not to make any 
arrangements for such. 

The regular weekly meetings have been held, and only once 
during the year have they failed from want of attendance. During 


9 


the summer months the meetings were more largely attended and of 
greater intersst than usual. This increase was due to the efforts 
made by our members to draw in strangers. Handbills were procured 
announcing the time and place of meeting, and for one half hour 
previous to each meeting, a number of our members took their stand 
at the corners of the streets in the vicinity, and placed the invi- 
tation in the hands of every young man who passed by. Many 
were thus drawn in, and some who had perhaps never before heard of 
our Association were induced to attend regularly. Another reason 
may be assigned for the larger attendance in the fact that our pastors 
have thrown in their influence with our work, and have cheerfully 
responded to the requests made by us, and at least twice in each 
month the meetings have been rendered attractive and instructive by 
their presence, and words of counsel and cheer. Some of our members 
have also rendered material aid by reading papers upon instructive 
topics. A pleasing feature of a meeting held April 4th, was the 
attendance of His Royal Highness Prince Arthur, on which occasion 
an address was presented to him. 

The Saturday evening prayer meeting has been regularly held, 
and although the attendance has not been large, the Spirit’s presence 
has oft been felt. Requests for prayer have been frequently presented, 
and we feel that this meeting quietly exercises an influence over our 
Association for good. 

The Sabbath afternoon meeting has somewhat increased in num- 
bers and interest, and its chairman feels more encouraged to persevere 
in his labor of love. 

In accordance with a resolution passed at the International 
Convention in June last, a circular was issued requesting our pastors 
to observe the second Sabbath in November as a day on which special 
sermons to young men should be delivered. This circular met with 
a cordial response, and on the day named, services were held in 19 
churches. ‘The great interest taken in these services leads us to hope 
that much spiritual blessing may result therefrom. 

Among the special meetings during the past year was a series 
held under the direction of Mr. K. A. Burnell of Chicago, and 
generally known as Laymen’s Institutes. They are intended for the - 
discussion of topics especially relating to christian effort. With the 
exception of the closing meeting, these were held in our rooms, but 
the short notice given (only 24 hours) resulted in a very small 
attendance at the commencement. The interest was, however, kept 


10 


up, and the result of the closing public meeting has already been 
given. @ 

In November a meeting was held in the basement of Zion 
church, at which the well known christian lady, Miss McPherson, 
met with, and addressed the ladies of Montreal. Although this 
meeting was intended exclusively for ladies, the arrangements for the 
same were carried out under the direction of the President of this 
Association. 

The mothers’ prayer meeting has been regularly held in our 
rooins, and has been well attended. 


FINANCE COMMITTEE. 
GEORGE Youna, Charman. 


At the opening of the year, the Association was laboring under 
a debt of $1,200, which amount has been paid off, and all current 
expenses met. 

It it with pleasure we record the kind and liberal manner in 
which the christian public has always responded to the appeals made, 
and never in former years has the duty of collecting funds been less 
arduous. The Treasurer’s report herewith presented gives a detailed 
account of our receipts and expenditure, and showing a balance of 


) $43.17 in hand. 


SPECIAL LABORS AMONG YOUNG MEN. 


The primary object of our Association is the salvation of the 
souls of young men, and with that object in view, it behoves us to 
carefully consider the ways whereby we may be enabled more fully to 
enlist the sympathy of those whom we desire to save. Were it our 
privilege to see young men coming to our rooms seeking after their 
eternal interests only, and crying “‘ What must I do to be saved,” we 
would be ready with the only faithful answer “ Believe on the Lord 
Jesus and thou shalt be saved.’’ But alas, such cases are rarely met 
with, and the vast majority of the hundreds who yearly apply to us, 
do so, hoping that we may be able to aid them in securing temporal 
blessings. In order to secure and maintain an influence over such, it 
is evident that we must endeavour to aid them in that which appears 

| | to them as their greatest want, and at the same time remind them that 
, | there are spiritual blessings to be obtained, if properly sought after. 


it 


Tt has caused me much pain and awakened many sad thoughts, 
as I have met with those who have solicited our aid. The dulness 
of trade has rendered it impossible to provide for even a tithe of the 
want presented. Young men, honest, willing and competent, have 
applied, and oftimes their tears have freely flowed as they told their 
tale of woe. Homeless, friendless, and penniless they stood, as they 
appealed for aid. Many such have been sent away with their load of 
grief lightened and their spirits cheered, and we have felt that our 
Association has not been instituted and maintained in vain. 


During the year I have received 630 applications for aid or 
advice. The great majority have been seeking employment, and it 
is a fact worthy the attention of parents and guardians, that of this 
number but five were mechanics. By theaid of kind friends we have 
secured 98 situations, and 213 have been directed to suitable and res- 
pectable boarding houses, 46 have been assisted to remove to other cities 
where employment awaited them. In 23 instances temporary pecu- 
niary aid has been afforded, but only in extreme cases is this course 
pursued. Three have been induced to sign the pledge, and two 
bibles given to young men leaving the city. Over 400 letters to 
friends, or applications for employment, have been posted from our 
rooms, and writing materials were furnished for the same free of 
charge. A much larger number of letters and papers have been 
addressed to our care. T'wenty-one letters of enquiry have been 
received from anxious friends, and have been promptly attended to. 
I have also been frequently applied to as a medium through which 
information of wandering sons might be obtained, and letters have 
been received containing assurances of deep gratitude for services 
thus rendered. 


- T have now recorded some of the methods adopted for the wel- 
fare of our young men, but the blessings which may result from these 
feeble efforts can never be known until eternity shall reveal all things. 
We have on record for our encouragement, cases where those who 
were once degraded drunkards, are now filling respectable and respon- 
sible positions in life, and this great change resulting from the 
blessing of God upon the efforts of this Association. 


ALF, SANDHAM, 
Secretary. 


12 


Having now fully laid before you the reports of our past year's 
labors, let me close by saying that we need more enthusiasm, more 
sarnestness, more labor, with more devoted prayer, in this great 
cause, that we may become a mighty force that shall be felt in this 
City. It is the true sphere of this Association to gather and concen- 
trate the religious influence of the community: it is intended to bind 
together Christians of every name, uniting all hearts by the spirit of 
love; and thus united, work together in one general effort for the 
salvation of young men. In repeating the statement, so frequently 
made in the past, “ that we consider it the duty of every Christian 
to seek first the welfare of the Church to which he belongs,’ we but 
state a fact established beyond question, that those who work most 
actively in our Association, are the men who are found most faithful 
in their own church work. 

Thanking all who have so willingly aided in the laborious, yet 
pleasant, duties of the past year, and with bright anticipations of the 
future usefulness of the Association, your Committee resign the trust 
committed to them at the last annual meeting. 


On behalf of the eeneral Committee, 


T. JAMES CLAXTON, 
President. 


ee Se ee : E fe - . : a is 
NT en i ee | — os 


‘olgr “AON 1St “IVHNLNOPT 
"AIANSDIA [ 


‘NIZVG ‘VfL 
‘SIVA “L ‘ONNOA ‘OUD 


Aq 3991109 punoj pue poyipny 


ZQggs tg zBggg Eg 


Lri-th COHOKSHRKESHHHHOH OKC OOH oo SEe Eo EMER OH KEHOE OCHO OEE ROSE LOCE puey ul ysed 
ZO'OVIST ses ereeeeeeeees GQQr 19qG0}0O SIE 0} snorAssd poxmmout s}qoq PIO 
; OO'OIT' sreeeesee+s StOdeUuRIpPU] Je UOTJUAOD 0} UoT}ejndaq jo sosuadxy] 
£¢°ss Tteeeeeseees es HIOK MIN Ul 99}}TUIWIOD VATjNDeX| 0} uoNdtosqns 
09‘*QI Trtteeecececeseccessssgaq diysioquiayy Suto9]]09 10F uoissturui07> 


» , 
SE aes een ee ve ve eee oe 


6S oZ Pt Seegee Ret an eke tg ete pe eek min eee he SO JUZ[OADUN j 
00°ZI Teeeeecececsecerress -S8un99 A] 10YjJO puv Tenuuy je suey jo asc, 4 
00°6 Trcteeeeeeeesecreseces Suga [eNUUY Je UMIUOUIeF] pue ourrg 


oo'Str SS eR sete soak 46 Vek sie e+ kes > Sur onee many Joy [eH ,Somueyoayy 
OO'OIT tr rreee seeeeeesssouyIM Gunosy SuIsiyeApy ‘uos 2% [[esnoq ‘f 
SL°g9 Bil! i Masao eat nS ‘U0S 2 [[esnoq a pue “09 ® syvjg . 
SLL Coe eteereeeceeeesceesecoreoeoessess KQUOUT JUDLINIUN UO yunoosi(T 
Oo'¥Vr CHOPS OHHH HEHEHE eH ee eH ee ee ORO eHEaeecesessene ooo ‘r¢g uo soueINSUT 
ob 192 TRNERRAARATSN A DSO Ths + Os9 004+ ORR EDU ome IOJV MA quay 
Lz*Qor ES ei npn SA res aaa ip ny ak pue poo M—jen J 


13 


: eee Sr ae "Sunureg ey ae carat 1a —- ane a OO OIE + **"** JUNODDe SUISIOAPY SsoUuzIAA Jo JuNOUIL ‘suOS 2 [[eBnoq ° t- | 
IR IEE RE Kc hare) ene Ory virereeessaseeeeeeczoanig uF pred syunoooe Jof [pte] uo wmruarg | 
oF 6+ me ASSET SHES RUE E ONS HALT ENTS 0h TORS Eiken een de ae nn 9 amo TS SQ°TIZ_ testes STAUB, OY} JO May v Aq pezlursio 3199U0_ v jo spos001g, ) 
¥g°9F A ET ne EOE OS See ences ae Oe et SCR ar Ser Soe EL *I10ESE Ne ee ee ee Snags eS eres ee nen mee oy 

° . ee ‘ ‘ ae 
pps phegaas suns Eiveasdvn tan cee Ereearre tee eet eae anaes JO spusty oy ‘S1oyJO pue sioquOyY ‘syuLYoseY WO suoNdyosqng 
OO"0OQ ttt hss thee e eet ee ee eeeeereseseeseeeeosdee ATPNOISSITA ‘UST ‘f 00° S€z EEE eA See e Cee tae ne or eke ty Seay araatod ieee 
00:00Z2 ees eSeSeers se Besse eerese eee esenseensevnersesenens A1¥49199S ‘ueypueres ‘V VQ°bz eeeeeseeasre eee eereoseeesceasesnens Teese TOINSVOLT, 3}e, WOY souLleg 
ae?) ¢ F °) ¢$ 


5: ‘pred ‘pantasaty 


Ra a eae aS Cg IE IERIE ETO DE IES 2 ee as RG ROEM eR cae | 
‘OLST ‘t9q0109 YSTEg Furpue mwex yYWooyouIN oy} 107 | 


‘AdAnSWIAT, ‘OIWAD * J —uouwiI0SS 7 UDUSIAYD SUapT FuNOZ Jwarquopy | 
| ‘INNODOV HSVO 


14 

For the Year ending October 31st, 1870. 
J. Dougall & Son, amount of ac- Do EMGHOD We GOs: ous cbabaaneaee ue 10.00 
count for advertising ....... $110.00 RUAN Pe aE OO. oss ale Rie hile ON els 10.00 
ay ames Olaxton. «oe cose ls os oes 100.00 ae. SONNBON Ww CO. iii. see essed 10.00 
Torrance: & Oo. soy ve cus 50.00 POOUs VV RESON. ons Pens Ribena 10.00 
Charles Alexander ........ Hegatitine 50.00 David Robertson...........eee0- 10.00 
PAP IETOMAD Ss Sin’. 0.5'0,5 Ns epee obo 4 30s 50.00 H. M. Alexander ............. . 10.00 
OE SN ee ee 50.00 POG MOLE a'n's'> 6s.) Wy aw aly aie 10.00 
J: a a. MoLennan. .. 0.0. 0... 50.00 S. Greenshields, Son & Co...... 10.00 
AACR AMTEP MIELE 26) ca 5. « tue pasteadin ei yesh 50.00 WV A OGTIOT o\o.90 655 seniew onl etek 10.00 
Nelson, Wood & Co............. 30.00 FP VC MAEOES oy sce eiae as eens 10.00 
Pi Be WY ARLDIOY «0» sis suheliaiarerey ssid a 25.00 DO ie, HS MO uss os snes bine hecho 10.00 
Plimsoll, Warnock & Co........ 25.00 Jas. Popham & Co.........00... 10.00 
Geo. Young Dik eats se, RRMA Td Golde 25.00 Simpson, Whitehead & Co...... 10.00 
PPO MOBOIOY ooo os’ reed oh se 25.00 Pec RTL. s so Letnk «water 10.00 
Joseph McKay & Bro, SR RN 25.00 EP LI Fie slo dap 5 EA's Su ims Di 10.00 
MITE CIEL oo 95 Pre rae oe es 25.00 CRM SUNG sys SMES Cae Re Aa 10.00 
Oe SERINE ys. he ys ilgisth Doel 2 1.00 POAC. os dime Wilk gauelee 10.00 
PON TPSININe 3 2...) deme te eae | .00 RvB AMOR sess ene co Fy oe ics 10.00 
ET OT ECE see aa en a BRS Most, 25.00 Aa RGRIRERS a e's» 5 eldlaio sweat alll a 10.00 
PEO R SRT RIDIOBON «soc s abaiks dice ots 25.00 Brown & Claggett.........s..005 10.00 
ca OS BREE SRS SS RCO 25.00 Oo SOTELAELBAIE vis, a0. 6 6 UaN ao dx isle 10.00 
OE VAM MRIET SS Lia a sb Eco hae ee 6 Gk 95.00 MS MSEAUTE Ce kus wean bd erwin ie 10.00 
Foulds & Hodgson ............. 25.00 he Re I ae wc Ue ees Reukand 10.00 
Major-Gen. Russell, C.B........ 25.00 SOMME VIEL iiss ntl tices chain 10.00 
DG, Wiman & Congest ccsea se 25.00 W. King... sep MRI inn acim wate 10.00 
Wa tks CRORE’ s a <in ces SSS ge ge aa 25.00 D. Morrite cs. ees 10.00 
ey UE OG ss bree a soins s 25.00 D TRGOOUERIG OO, vs. . hiitacne hs owe 4 5.00 
eA OMG AIG <5 han lL sos Cbd 20.00 A. regpind BL 20 i'n OOM ale ata ae eke tee 5.00 
Crathern & Caverhill........... 20.00 Gy A Mamenene eS aus 5.00 
Sid SOMATA T GATTI. a sicta bis e'eo ees 20.00 Judge WOLPAROG << 5a orcad els 5.00 
EE TORY Se a A Ae 20.00 iP ERTEA GON | TILOME ONS ol, 53' vata Nin, ease oe 5.00 
EG EMME Gi o'g sc s'cwbbi wievin Ges 20.00 W.McDunnough ............... 5.00 
es MaRS cide hic Dew eases alan ee 20.00 Pater Dodds 6. aoe oak 5.00 
TIO Ainls's's'v cildes a hbaa vemanie 20.00 MPA ERE ss. oa sD k eis nos 5.00 
W. J. McMaster & Co...... Cab he! POG. PLOGGGTES!6..5's «sagen oid edicts 5.00 
A Ns a OD) os aeRO’ ego aed 20.00 ‘ James Robertson .........s.¢00. 5.00 
a Pes IU yk Ss 5's 0s 08 RT MS 20.00 Ge. DP acaues & Coin ec. cacwds s 5.00 
2 ge TREAD a tok MN 20.00 ae URN ae IO, «ss Mahe. s s'c marae 5.00 
‘Heeusgen & Gneedinger ......... 20.00 PREMOOM TURD ss «56 EE 4iy > > lee 4 5.00 
MU CTOMUIINONE «so sce ss dice os vse 20.00 Eis AV COCOTBO | 60 6'didaws vs neiaeae 5.00 
Mire. Goo. Hagar .... 1... cies 20.00 Oy ae ONE Vises) 's, «a's MaRS ose ee 5.00 
PR ORN TIVITIES hoe oss wie Cb a cee 12.00 W.G. Matthews........ 5 athe arate 5.00 
Mrs. Henry Lyman............. 15.00 Pin Bxe COW ARE: os ds chee so ties avai 5.00 
INN ine y's > dkaa wb Wisin» oie 10.00 MSIE IEOTIOA ies, Ac clin gist cehee 5.00 
EME MEUREE ., \0. e's: o b'kie acs 0b albia'e sie) 10.00 Js Wiliam@on & Cons... ass cae 5.00 
PRL ACHIBON foo. sys sons a os 10.00 EB le TMOMELEL 3.9 0's 5 0 Seewid aise nV 5.00 
POAT PUG GPEs 06 is vdelswe de pees es 10.00 Bite iat OBL is 3 avi be cb on tas 5.00 
0A. Drammond. - io... cesses. 10.00 MAT EMO. 3 ss gb adi bawaten 5.00 
PP Griy PATMIGLSON: . «odds seat ne ets 10.00 Wm. Notman bi e.rit gnc Cachelintnva sata ieee 5.00 
Me MIE x 6's oe he renimintn’a inl oon ie 10.00 BPA ON EETINEE so: ic’ ssc, 5 Siew ove boa owlarwieinns 5.00 
Retford: Dillon & Gee ieieis oes. 10.00 Pea RUAV OED 3 cso  vgihiee © ce eeeaydnns 5.00 
Geo. Stephen & Co..... .....05. 10.00 Bs ei Reiley dy oh Me 5.00 
PATNA os 5s s cv cuiebean eves -10.00 PPA TOOL. Co 5 Sooty be ave be 5.00 
Smith, Cochrane & Co.......... 10.00 is Ds RSTVSON Hose a'a's ie cee aes de 5.00 
ae. TRAGNOFUSOD sss svicdalscce alah 10.00 RETR Ss vipa te hie os ss i aie tac ee 
Smith & Leishman ............. 10.00 aL RP cts De Cure A Sal ue ei 5.00 
} EERIE Go DS RG URE ITD 10.00 CRRODD dog acals sich a She Mae Ea eh Sleane 5.00 
HV Of 34s PECAN TE NAIM Rep 10.00 Darling @ Gordan: oissess eas 5.00 
Cassills & Cameron..........665 10.00 Joh Barry is). c choi onson 5.00 
Sinclair, Jack & Co......eeeene 10.00 TW co i Wis ARAL, «Valais wea Da sels 5.00 
A POLAT OTL «0 Fos viele S Mah ae vie das 10.00 Geo. FEA ie ee ioe an 3 QQ 


Robertson, Stephen & Co........ 10.00 John Fraser ........ AR A GOPINY oPe  y 


15 
EO. PGMA ho UV oua ois ck OW aeced 5.00 js 2 Benallack  ultisd sb aha wears 2.45 
K. H. Botterell PUN s wo, é bites sas 5.00 W PROGID DOR Biipeee s o'cies iain 'dgh 2.00 
SPAS TPAATEO ed Rens elec el 5.00 We ee MUR Nee ret 2 ae at 2.00 
A eS Ue SRO a 5.00 | J. MaMa aes cose ee 2.00 
Prowse Bros.....:..... ee ate 5.00 | Ths STW eos i x eben oaks ean. 2.00 
es Ee ROW LO. Cav wd eule 5.00 RR ee Fe WR REN aR AO 2.00 
BS ARN ane a a 5.00 OD EL WV BIER ee as 2.00 
ye ES a ethene 5.00 Ces SOON gS ee ete es 2.00 
(Re | ORE) 9 an aR ae 5.00 Ti a PEs keen cy ate 2.00 
MIRO TO. ko. cece cae: 5.00 ee tie PLOW oie ons 2.00 
Fh eg SIPOWIOPME es a wel weiss 5.00 | OA ORES hy a el eat 2.00 
Big WOR be Be lnc nag aan 5.00 | De AER sas Cee th laa 2.00 
Ba WES TRIE gd big, Sk Gadi Lok 5.00 Ws Be Diindgay yi vesevesitwern 2.00 
RB MENBOPAP. Ulin 6 sok cena 5 00 CO: Fe pre cas ea oe 2.00 
PO Oy ook ae Med 5.00 A EPO ie ig eae hi 2.00 
Jas.’ Walker & Co... .:...:000665 5.00 WW Wares anole ius au 2.00 
GOPROM Al LIDERO ik os cok aes 5.00 CORDS svi bee US wdeeros Ue Wh duluils 1.00 
J. Brown ee BI ee aidan 5.00 Wie CaP eNEi ie aie ce ohne 1.00 
bf es. Clrrig dt Co.s icine ces 8 || aa K. a i a Na Wien ha ated A ne aman a 1.00 
J. McArthur & Son ............ SSL TMH NMR. ge Ur) MMO MIRDA, yildioee MAMIpR ete 2.00 
Thos. Mussen Baie AMM bei ci cial ea 5.00 W. 1. ‘Kinmond & Go i onale wie webs 2.50 
TSS Oo SS) | CR pea 4.00 ws. MAE ols Sled sah ait Bas 2.50 
Mattorich &Stsdicen BRR SEER 5.00 Fs De PORE hs) Leas eke fe oed 2.00 
Wis PO SBI iiss bisie'sibk 6 was 5.00 C1 FOP Na ss Wialnielbe Oats lihiacelatyth cite 2.00 
WA TES ORANG oy Wak dae ve Woceieds Se ae Bee DEP ds. Sons na eedoate 6 a lan 2.00 
Sin POETS 2 OR aa 5.00 Teg AIIM. PRR ea gt au 1.00 
EE GCE Gs SIR GINO, De Re Ris ey Mamas ce tea 1.00 
Be TRL sik sO Meas ween 5.00 Fe. WOES OG esr beak Gebers 1.00 
PE WRG eNews vedas 5.00 WE. SAOTDS bis aya aa dics sc vcwareiee 1.00 
By RNS oe ogee yd cca b ob oe 5.00 Eis BROMATOTs icles ho vas ccd cB 1.00 
EON Bgl 5.00 . PPONOGE ad HA ew Aw suite enone 1.00 
OSA: Storer. sé. 6Gies so des 655 5.00 a REMAED Geb wrk lle ala pus. cis Sou ge 1.00 
BE EA DOOO I iis 4k os do cae oe 4.00 | riend..... NG MRD MIDNA. oes Sta 2.00 
DEM... % Mewes 5 0 dicinih aiers 4.00 So ies PRPBORR ary ot 2.00 
AN RRR: 4.00 Ss GRO RES PRR ain ds oaowene 1.00 
OR RDA spell tie ys uo. 00 Fhe WV disc Gi ve sew hohe. |) gine cane 1.00 
PTY Wis PPOGK 1 NU Uhs oie cb cb oioes 3.00 SW LOPIOP Nea eni eevee ns 4.00 

y 


Increased Membership Subscriptions for Year ending 
October 31st, 1870. 


fh J Claxton tialtn Pola ele set ib iehg Manis wigls fathels $10.00 CS. is Be Phillips Pear Parke DomrM Bat ie Lt $5.00 
By Mes CAPREROU AGRA o's «0's Vouloa ae’ 10.00 W. PYARKUNB Ss aig ths weeny 5.00 
WwW Hoston. Elba aa MON e's a bckia She gta's 10.00 eR RUHON oud sah Hae 4 ak aces 5.00 
Geo. YOUNG... eicevecesiseeveees. 5.00 De OPIS oe aero hg Nn a 5.00 
8s. Caldecott Riek Pa UIRh's’''n-d ebb Sibate 5.00 J.-C. SUADOON acai yee cer iuee! 5.00 
Po ROE 05's LAW ihe 0'S sve 0 vines 5.00 Js os WT MEOOK Oe ca ran ten 5.00 
SMUD aor vie Ns «6 bie vie'k's Mone 5.00 a) | Ede DOOURALL 22 hdl a wavs s oueek bea 5.00 
DY We MIN i's ited wa sine Gad isc 5.00 Os TESIOUE Vad esiGygac's dew eee 5.00 
Wm. Reid...... Neb vueieveweeenens 5.00 oo PUTO. cre Cue ala 5.00 
Li ROMMMy ie py theta nS svc anix ooh 5.00 Di ROGHE Oa d. Cees 5.00 
De ANS yk ANYR GL ae cs Seed - 5.00 Ks Campbells ieee uss uae 5.00 
Pe MEAN Hs ts sited s «see beh oc 5.00 D. McFarlane ......... hon Vaan 5.00 
Tin! CUSHING vos. stoic sce cebeans 5.00 A; Ee CAMBIO Webs yc ss clematline 5.00 
G. Bishop... 0.6... cece se cevees 5.00 P, Ee Birton ieee cs wae ee 5.00 
of MEU Wy WN iia h S54 + w dle kines 5.00 Fi FOUGNG bs Vals enecis yews eee 3.00 
ee ARMM cose Laie ee 6 a6 sv Pid Nin's 5.00 PP. ERORS e's bio biel eee ceed SCP 3-00 
BR PRPC eC Wiss. vs viclearg 6 5 00 Ae BM, Melatogh sits isa. Ss ca 2.50 
Pie POOR heikcin ve akn's e's secceue’ 5.00 a SRORSTAAL 65'S SU wan’ soc a 2.50 
H. Watson.....-... teeesceseee ees 5.00 pee MIRON ty o's wine he ga) Ane 2.50 
J. B. Learmont.................. -00 W. Baal. skies. cae 2.00 
eS Ee MIDURMINY 6. ease ous vada ses 5.00 SB. Fongtiah ioc ey ee 2.00 
J. McLaughlin.......... op Se 5.00 


=a Oe 


BASIS of the Young Men’s Christian Associations adopted at 
the Conference of European Associations, held at Paris in 1855, and 
since adopted by the International Conventions of the United States 


and British Provinces :-— 


“The Young Men’s Christian Associations seek to unite 
those young men, who regarding Jesus Christ as their God and 
Saviour according to the Holy Scriptures, desire to be His disciples - 
in their doctrine and in their life, and to associate their efforts for 


the extension of His Kingdom amongst young men.” 


(ONSTITUTION, 


Articue I. 


This Society shall be called “Tum MontreaL Youne Mern’s CHRISTIAN 
ASSOCIATION.” 


Articue II. 


Its objects shall be, the religious and mental improvement of its Mem- 
bers, especially in connection with the study of the Scriptures; the union 
of young men of various Churches in this and other plans of usefulness’; 
and the providing of means by which young men, coming as strangers 
into the city, may be brought under religious influences among their own 
class. 


Articue III. 


This Association adopts, as the basis of all its proceedings, those 
fundamental principles of Evangelical Christianity on which all Ortho- 
dox Protestant Churches are agreed, and will never admit any inter- 
meddling with those matters of Faith and Polity on which such Churches 
differ. 

ArricLe IV. 


This Association shall be composed of Active, Associate, Life, and 
Honorary Members. Any young man, who is a member in good standing 
of an Evangelical Church in this city, may be elected an Active Member. 
Any young man, of good moral character, may be elected an Associate 
Member. Any Associate Member, who shall unite with an Evangelical 
Church, becomes thereby an Active Member, due notice thereof having 
been given to the Secretary. Any member in good standing of an Evan- 
gelical Church, who contributes $100 to the funds of the Association at 
one time, may be elected a Life Member. An Active Member, by contri- 
buting $100 to the funds at one time, thereby becomes a Life Member. 
Active, Life, and Honorary Members only have the right to vote, and be 
eligible to office. The Association shall have power to expel members. 


ARTICLE V. 


The annual subscription for Active and Associate Members shall be 
One Dollar, payable in advance. 


Articur VI. 


The Officers of the Association shall be—a President, four Vice- 
Presidents, a Treasurer, and a Secretary; these, with fifteen members of 
Committee, shall form the General Committee of the Association. 


ArticLte VII. . 


An Annual Meeting shall be held in the month of November to re- 
ceive the Report of the General Committee and elect their successors. 


Articie VIII. 
All elections shall be by ballot. 


ys oe eee 


ARTICLE IX. 


All meetings of the Association and Committee shail be opened and 
closed with prayer. Seven members shall be a quorum of the Associa- 
tion, and five of the General Committee. 


ARTICLE X, 


It shall be competent for the General Committee, with the approval 
of the Association, to engage such persons as may be deemed necessary 
to carry out the objects of the Association. 


ARTICLE XI. 


This Constitution shall not be altered or amended except by a two- 
thirds vote of the members present at the Annual Meeting, or ata Special 
Meeting called for that purpose. A month’s notice of any proposed 
alteration or amendment must be given to the Association. 


PY-Laws. 


Articte I,—MbpmsBersuip. at 

1.—All propositions for membership shall be made in writing by an 
Active Member, at a regular meeting of the Association, and shall contain 
the name in full, the residence, the church of which the candidate is a 
member, or if not a church-member, the congregation with which he is 
connected, and shall be signed by the proposer. Elections shall not take 
place before the next succeeding business meeting. All new members 
shall be required to sign the Constitution and By-Laws before being 
enrolled. 

2.—The Members shall seek out young men taking up their residence 
in the city, endeavour to bring them under moral and religious influences, 
and, by every means in their power, to surround them with Christian 
associates. Members shall also exert themselves to interest the churches 
to which they respectively belong in the objects and welfare of the 
Association. They shall labor to induce all suitable young men of their 
acquaintance to connect themselves with the Association, and use all 
practicable means for increasing its membership, activity and usefulness. 


ArticLeE IIl.—DutTirs or OFFICERS. 


1—It shall be the duty of the President, or in his absence, of a 
Vice-President, to preside at all meetings of the Association and General 
Committee, and to preserve in strict exercise the rules established by 
Parliamentary order. 

2.—It shall be the duty of the Treasurer to receive all monies, and 
to disburse the same under the direction of the General Committee. He 
shall keep a full and correct account of his transactions, and report to 
the General Committee when so required, and to the Association at its 
Annual Meeting. 

3.—It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep a correct record of 
the proceedings of all meetings of the Association, and of the General 
Committee; to keep a full and complete register of the name, residence, 
and church of each membcr ; to notify all Officers and Members of their 
election or appointments; and to prepare the work for the business 
meetings. He shall, under the direction of the General Committee, con- 
duct the correspondence of the Association, and keep copies of all letters 
written, and fyles of those received. He shall also prepare the Annual 
Report of the General Committee. 

4,—The General Committee shall have the management of the affairs 
of the Association, and shall present a report at each monthly business 
meeting, and at the annual meeting. 


Articte IlJ.—Sranping CoMMITTEES. 


1.—From the General Committee the President shall appoint the 
following Standing Committees :—A Committee on Membership, Rooms 
and Library ; a Committee on Missions; a Committee on Lectures, Clas- 
ses and Meetings; a Committee on Finance; and a Committee on Board- 
ing-houses. ‘They shall report to each monthly meeting of the General 
Committee. The President and Secretary shall be ez-ofieto members of 
each Standing Committee. 


4 
rae & 


2.—The Committee on Membership, Rooms and Library, shall cohsiat 
of five members, to whom all propositions for membership shall be 
referred. They shall secure the co-operation of an active member in each 
Evangelical Church in the city, who shall report upon propositions 
referred to him, seek out new members, and endeavour to interest his 
congregation in the Association. They shall also take charge of the 
Rooms and Library of the Association, and collect the annual fees. 

3.—The Committee on Missions shall consist of five members, and it 
shall be their duty to superintend the Mission work of the Association. 

4—The Committee on Lectures, Classes and Meetings, shall consist 
of five members, and shall provide for the delivery of Lectures or Ser- 
mons; have charge of Bible and Literary Classes, and all meetings not 
under the direction of the Committee on Missions. 

5.—The Committee on Finance shall consist of three members, shall 
devise means for obtaining necessary funds for the Association ; and 
shall examine and approve all accounts referred to them by the General 
Committee previous to their payment by the Treasurer. The Treasurer 
shall be an ex-officio member of this Committee. 

6.—The Committee on Boarding-houses shall consist of three mem- 
bers, and it shall be their duty to aid young men in finding suitable 
boarding-houses, and to endeavour to establish family worship in such 
places where it is not observed. 


ARTICLE [V.—ELecrion oF GENERAL COMMITTER. 


1.—At the last business meeting, previous to the Annual Meeting, 
the General Committee shall nominate its successors, and other nomina- . 
tions shall then be received, 

2.—A majority of the votes cast shall be an election. 

3.—Any member of the General Committee absenting iieraale: from 
three consecutive monthly meetings of the Committee, without sufficient 
reason, shall vacate his office. All- vacancies shall be filled by the General 
Committee. 


ARTICLE V.—MREBETINGS. 


1—A regular Meeting of the Association shall be held every Tuesday 
evening, A business Meeting shall be held on the Second Tuesday of 
each month. 

2.—'fhe General Committee shall-meet each month previous to the 
regular business meeting of the Association. 

3.—Special meetings of the General Committee may be called at the 
option of the President, or at the request of three Members of the Com- 
mittee. Special Meetings of the Association shall be held at the written 
request of ten members, or at the option of the President, to be called by 
public advertisement. 


ARTICLE VI.—ALTERATIONS. 


1,—No alterations or additions shall be made to these By-Laws, except 
by a two-thirds vote of the members present at a business meeting. A 
month’s notice of the proposed change shall be given to the Association. 

2—Any By-Law may be suspended for the time being by a two- 
thirds vote of the members present at a business meeting. 


ror Peake Dd 


OF THE 


ANNIVERSARY MEETING 


Held Friday, December 16th, 1870. 


The nineteenth anniversary was celebrated by a public meeting in 
the Mechanic’s Hall, which was crowded—hundreds being unable to get 
seats. 

The President, T. James Claxton, Esq., occupied the chair, and on 
the platform were a number of clergymen and others prominent in the 
interests of various union Christian efforts in the city. 

The meeting was opened a few minutes before eight o’clock by the 
singing of a hymn. 

Rev. Gavin Lang then read a portion of the fourth chapter of Pro- 
verbs, and afterwards led in prayer. 

The Chairman then briefly addressed the meeting, and gave some in- 
teresting particulars of the progress made by the Association during the past 
year. Copies of the annual report, which were distributed to the audience, 
contained much interesting matter, which they could peruse at their 
leisure, so that the time of the meeting would not be occupied by reading 
it, and thus give more space for the addresses which were to follow. He, 
however, gave a few facts connected with ’ 


THE ASSOCIATIONS NEW BUILDING. ” 


He stated that the effort which was commenced three months ago, 
had been very satisfactory; they had received written pledges to date 
for over $25,000, and he said much more would be forthcoming. The 
General Committee, had therefore acquired a suitable site—corner of 
Craig and Radegonde streets—which was very central, fronting Victoria 
Square and the old Hay Market, the further amount of $25,000 will be 
required to erect and complete a suitable building, which will include 
accommodation for the Bible and Tract Societies, and Sunday School 
Union. He had sanguine expectations that the amount required would 
be raised, as it was a good cause and the building was a necessity. The 
foundation of the Association building, he believed, would be laid within 
the next six months. 

Rev. Dr. Burns addressed the meeting, taking for his subject, “ The 
Needs of Young Men.” He said that one of the chief wants of the young 
men of the age was intelligence ; there was little fear of their being found 
in a lunatic asylum from having too much brains. In these days there 
was too much muscle worship—not muscular Christianity, but a devot- 
ing of all spare time to physical exercises while the cultivation of the 
mind was neglected. Not but that cricket, lacrosse, and taboganing were 
all good in their way ; but more development of brain was needed. To 
young men he advised more breadth in reading by systematic plan; but 
not to be so slavishly bound to a system but that they could read a good 


23 


book when published. Yet they were not to read all books, as a large 
proportion of the books that issue from the press are worthless, as the 
bills of literary mortality will show. The works, not of compilers, but 
of original thinkers were to be closely studied ; in travel, or poetry pay 
attention to the master-works, and in history study it as in eras, or the 
epochs of great men. But for all this, time was needed, and perhaps 
young men would say that this was an argument in favor of the Saturday 
afternoon half-holiday. Well, he was sure that if it were certain that 
Saturday afternoon would be applied to the gaining of needed intelligence, 
we should all be willing to accord the half-holiday. To gain this intel- 
ligence, libraries were needed, and he was glad of the numerous libraries 
which the city possessed, and glad indeed of the prospect of a free library, 
which he prayed would not be chopped off by litigation. We needed a 
full and free library. In the second place, industry was needed ; not 
drones, sloths, or wasters, but workers who never have an idle moment. 
The Jews brought up all their youth to some trade, and their example 
might be copied with advantage. In Montreal he heard people speak 
disparagingly of a trade, as something to be ashamed of. He despised 
such sentiments as unworthy of true manhood. 

He cited the case of one of the sons of the duke of Argyle, Lord 
Walter Campbell, who was in trade, and to whose brother, the Marquis 
of Lorn, Queen Victoria was about to give her daughter in marriage. 
Those effeminate men and unfeminine women who sneer at trade, he had an 
utter contempt for. It is recorded that a peer in the House of Lords, 
referring to the opinions of a member of Parliament, said that at one 
time he had blacked his (the peev’s) boots. The member’s reply was, 
‘“ And did I not doit well?” © So with young men: whatever you do, 
do it well and the reward and honor will be yours. In the third 
place, “ Integrity” was another need of young men. Like the late Hugh 
Miller we require to put our conscience into every stone that was hewn. 
This was a principle that all traders, bakers and milkmen should 
consider and apply to their loaves and milk cans. We need more 
and more in our young men a transparency of character and a dis- 
position to cultivate whatever is good, true and honest—it is the 
best policy and should be adhered to at all hazards. A fourth want of 
young men is “ Independence” in thought and action. There is too much 
pinning of their opinions or belief to their popular newspaper; such in- 
decision will be sure to go down and sink into oblivion with the general 
clash of conflicting opinions. There was also a great lack of moral 
courage among young men, who should fear the Lord and carry out their 
religious convictions, irrespective of the world’s opinion or what “ Mrs. 
Grundy ” will say. In conclusion, he said young men were in great need 
of good wives, sisters and mothers. Young men should have moral 
strength and character, and they need not fear for their future life. If 
we train and have in this Dominion young men strong to withstand the 
wiles of the evil one, we need not fear for its future, nor for that dear old 
Island Home of ours, the queen of the sea, the centre of light, the home 
of the free; and when we see other nations rolling in the trough of the 
sea, and likely to be broken up, ought we not to be thankful that our own ° 
dear Empire rides quietly like as on a calm and peaceful ocean. 

Rev. Mr. Baldwin next addressed the meeting on “The Infiuence 
and Power of Young Men,” expressing his pleasure at being present on 
that public platform where all could meet on a common basis. He pic- 
tured the Churches as being complete and beautiful sectional pillars, and 
on these Young Men’s Christian Associations rested, and were as a roof 
covering a great waste. The World, torn by dissensions and |vices too 
numerous and horrible to mention, was not Christian. But in every part 
of the world there were bodies of Christians, like the pillars upholding a 


al ee ae rt Bea 2 eee es erat. 
shh . 


Pape ce Thin agra 


— 


ees ee = a 


~~, 
= 


} 


a) 
\ 
Ley 
‘ 
BAA 
WE 


24 


vast structure. What they needed was the union of these bodies. The 
vreat hope of the Church was the young man ; and yet, to-day, strange 
to say, nothing was more neglecfed than the expansion of his mind by 
religion, which could alone exalt his intellect and make him a power 
upon earth. In the second place some persons supposed that secular 
education was enough. As well suppose thata crocodile brought up in the 
Regent’s Park should grow gentile, as to suppose that young men should 


receive the spirit of gentleness by secular education. They require the 


influences of Christianity, and without these they cannot prosper. As it 
was with the rock, which was once soft and plastic, so it was with the 
young man whose character in his youth was plastic and could be meulded, 
which moulding should become hardened, and last through his life down 
to the grave. In the third place, happiness did not always consist in the 
carrying out of the particular idea of happiness conceived by an indivi- 
dual, as the ideas of happiness of nearly every race upon the face of the 
earth differed essentially from each other. The same principle was 
developed in our social circles. Look at an exquisitely-dressed young 
man as he walks along the streets, thinking of nothing but how to live 
upon his father, yet he considered he had aright to feel happy. Sucha 
one was simply a sort of moral clothes-horse, who worshipped his tailor, 
and yet claimed to be happy. He is, nevertheless, a mere land-calf in 
our streets, who has strayed from his meadow. Such man should be told 
what they are, and the knowledge brought home to them. They should 
be taught that true happiness came from a life spent in the service of the 
Saviour. We all had our work and place upon ‘earth. Whenever I see, 
said the speaker, man supporting a lamp post, I at once conclude that 
some body else is over tasked to do the idler’s share of the world’s work. 
In the fourth place, we must, if we would be great, be ambitious. Ambi- 
tion was wrong, if it merely was the exalting of self, but right if, it was 
the exalting of God throughout the world, If the young men who were 
there present are to pass the temple of honor, it would not be by the 
indulgence of human passions, but by bending low to let the heavenly 
sunshine in upon their hearts, so that if they would enter into the temple 
of honor they must first enter into the temple of virtue. There are some 
men who live within themselves and there influences, but they are cha- 
racters without religion. ‘They are like the bird that wanders upon the 
surface of the sea—cold and lifeless. In conclusion, he said all had a 
duty to perform, not only to their respective circles, but to their country, 
and they must all help in the world’s work, The grand old escutcheons 
of England were not mere empty blazonries. These honors had been 
born upon the battle field, but Canada came not before the world as the 
destroyer, but as the benefactor, with the sickle and plough rather than 
the sword and spear. Canada had truth, and the power within her to be 
great, if youug men will only choose to use it. Young men, to feel free- 
dom and light, must not be raised under a secular education, but under a 
mild and chastening Christianity. 

Rev. Mr. Potts next addressed the meeting on “ The Perils of Young 
Men,” and in his opening remarks he congratulated the Association on 
its position and prospects. That this Association is, said he, in existence 
is a proof that young men are in peril. Who have paid any casual atten- 
tion to the young men about the city, but must have noticed that very 
many are in great peril of moral ruin. This peril to the young man is 
from within, not because he is living in the city or Corporation, but the 
peril is from within himself. The majority of our mechanics, students 
and clerks are from the country ; having been attracted to this city of 
progress, wealth, position and also of evil. One great peril of young men 
was the want of home infiuences, and because of the want of them, many 
young men had fallen into deep and deadly peril. In the second place, 


—— 


25 


young men were in danger in connection with business. There are 
employers who practically tell a young man that, to be successful in 
business, he must be dishonest, and say what he knows to be untrue in 
selling goods, and in that way to look for the favor of his employer. 
Such is the grouad-work of very many men’s ruin. To young men he 
would say, rather than stoop to dishonest means they should surrender 
their position. In the third place, intemperance was a great peril, with 
its many insinuating vices, and had a great fascination for youth. Intem- 
perance is a vice that has caused more bloodshed than war, and more 
ruin and destruction than any vice out of hell. To it we owe the misery 
and ruin which stalks through nearly every land. He said: Look at the 
poor superannuated creature without a feeling for mother, home or 
country: all blunted and paralyzed by drink ; his wife a burden, and he 
unfit to die. But yet that man began life under favorable auspices and 
as a respectable moderate drinker. The only safe course for young men 
to adopt was to have nothing to do with intoxicating drink; for on it was 
the curse of the widows and fatherless thousands. Gambling was another, 
though not quite so general a peril, not professional gambling, but a 
young man who gets trained first to drinking and then plays and loses. 
He borrows, and loses again, and then he puts his hand into his master’s 
till and is ruined. Impatience, self-confidence, and scepticism which 
existed among young men in the Dominion, were also perils. He appealed 
to young men, by everything pure, holy, ani good, if they had entered 
upon any of the vices peculiar to city life, to retrace their steps, and 
concluded an eloquent and earnest address by asking the young men of 
the city to join this Association, which has such a great influence for 
good. 
The meeting, which was perhaps the most successful and pleasing 
that has ever been held by the Association, was concluded with the 
singing of the Doxology and the pronouncing of the benediction. 


