one hundredth 


ANNUAL 
REPORT 


Bs 


YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION 
OF MONTREAL 
1951 


le 


26 
3e 


he 
br 
6b. 


Te 


8. 


Pe 
10. 


lle 


AGENDA 
ANNUAL MEETING 
OF THE 
YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 
MONDAY, APRIL 21ST, 1952, AT 5:00 P.M. 
MEMBERS' SOCIAL ROOM, Y.M.C.A., 11 DRUMMOND STREET 


CHATRMAN @eeoeveseoos este eeeoseseeesesesteee JOHN Be FROSST, 
PRESIDENT, 
YMCA OF MONTREAL 
DEVOTIONAL EXERCISES SHH SASSO SSH EEHHSHSHESHEHEHHBESES CH HENRY F, HALL, 
DEAN, 
SIR GEORGE 
WILLIAMS COLLEGE 
PRES IDENT'S REMARKS 
ADOPTION OF THE MINUTES OF THE LAST ANNUAL MEETING; 


MOVED BY : 
SECONDED BY ; 


REPORT OF THE HONORARY TREASURER PPeereeoserseeeesaeseesese te DENTON LEWIS 
REPORT OF THE NOMINATING COMMITTEE cccscccccecscccccoes AcHs COWIE 


REPORT OF THE ACTING GENERAL SECRETARY sceeseceeesseeee HiROLD C. CROSS 


MOTION TO ADOPT THE REPORTS; x _ 
eg” 23 
pi MOVED ny Aloouneer 
port SECONDED BY : 
APPOINTMENT OF AUDITORS: 


MoveD BY G-4; —€ teas: 
SECONDED BY ; * = 


SUCH OTHER BUSINESS AS MAY PROPERLY COME BEFORE THE MEETING 

ANNOUNCEMENT: BRIEF MEETINGS OF METROPOLITAN BOARD AND CORPORATION 
OF SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS COLLEGE AT THE CLOSE OF THIS 
ANNUAL MEETING 


ADJOURNMENT 


ANNUAL REPORT 1951 


INDEX 

ITEM PAGE 
INTRODUCTION abs 

I. MONTREAL CENTENNIAL OBSERVANCE 2e 
Ile POLICY AND SURVEY COMMITTEE he 
iil. PUBLICATION OF CENTENNIAL HISTORY De 
IV. CENTENNIAL INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION 6. 
Ve PROGRAMME : 

Clubs and Groups Te 

Informal Education Te 

Physical Activities 8, 

Sumer Programme 8. 
VIe PERSONAL SERVICES Se 
Vil. SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS COLLEGE AND SCHOOLS 10. 
VIII. CHRISTIAN EMPHASIS 12. 
IX. MEMBERS HTP 136 
Xe FINANCE AND PROPERTY lhe 
XI. PERSONNEL 156 
XII. NATIONAL COUNCIL 16% 
XIII. WORLD SERVICES L7e 
XIV. OBITUARIES 18, 
XVe APPREC TATION 206 
XVI. CONCLUSION . 21. 
APPENDIX A & Centennial Greetings STATEMENT OF INCOME 
APPENDIX B = Historical Sketch STATEMENT OF EXPENDITURE 
STATISTICAL RECORD BALANCE SHEET 


AUDITORS' REPORT NOMINATING COMMITTEE REPORT 


THE ONE HUNDREDTH ANNUAL REPORT 
OF THE 
YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 
FOR THE YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31ST, 1951 


Your Board of Directors has the unique satisfaction, at this 
time, of presenting the 100th Annual Report of the Young Men's Christian 
Association of Montreal. It was on November 25th, 1851, that a small group 
of young men, drawn from the Christian churches of the colonial city with 
a population at that time of slightly over 57,000 people, met together in 
St. Helen's Street Baptist Church and adopted the constitution which 
established the first Y.M.C.A- in North America. 

It was but natural that the Centennial should dominate our 
thinking and plans during the past twelve months, and the proper observance 
of this important historical event absorbed much of our efforts. As this 
report will indicate, the main forms in which the observance found expression 
were; the Centennial Dinner and Centennial Church Service, held November 2hth 
and 25th; the work of the Policy and Survey Committee in developing plans 
for a forward movement on the part of the Associations and the publication 
of a history of the Montreal Y.M.C.A. entitled "One Hundred Years of Service 
With Youth." 

It was with pardonable "hometown" pride that a large delegation 
of the Montreal Association participated in the great North American 
Centennial Convention held at Cleveland in June, 1951, when the founding of 
the Association Movement on this continent = first at Montreal and at Boston 
a few weeks later - was celebrated in an entirely adequate manners 

During the year, an event of importance was the establishment 
in October of the new Northmount Branch, which serves the area including 
Town of Mount Royal, Ville St. Laurent and Cartierville. 

Almost at the end of the period which this report reviews , 
the Montreal Association suffered an irreparable loss, in the death of 
John W. Beaton, its General Secretary. Further reference to this unhappy 
event will be made in later pages. 

In the world scene as in Canada, the conditions which existed in 
1951 varied but slightly from those of the previous yeare The undeclared 
war continued in Korea, with the Communist forces achieving considerable 
success in the earlier part of the year when the United Nations armies were 
driven back to near the 38th Parallel. In the middle of the year, truce 
talks were initiated, but by the year's end, very slight progress towards an 
armistice had been made. 

In Canada, the results of spiralling inflation created serious 
problems for many people and institutions within the country, including our 
own Organization, The visit of Princess Elizabeth (soon to become Queen) 
and her husband in the Fall developed a surge of now affection for the Royal 
family and a deeper appreciation of the crown and the values inherent in the 
British system of constitutional government, 


I. 


2e 
MONTREAL CENTENNIAL OBSERVANCE 


In January 1951, a Metropolitan Centennial Committee was 
appointed consisting of nineteen members, which met frequently throughout 
the Centennial year under the able chairmanship of George Hodge. Among 
its concerns was the planning of special city-wide events to be held on 
or about November 25th ~ the actual 100th Anniversary of the Montreal 
Association, 

The Centennial Dinner held in the Windsor Hotel on Saturday, 
November 2th, was attended by approximately 700 members and friends of the 
Association, An enlarged Executive Meeting of the National Council of 
Y.M.C.A's of Canada was held in Montreal at the same time, making possible 
the attendance of a number of representatives from Associations in other 
cities. Head table guests, numbering forty-three, included representatives 
of national and international YMCA bodies, the Armed Services, the Churches, 
commerce and industry, and of many other Montreal organizations. 

The inspiring address of Sir Frank Willis, C.B.E., General 
Secretary of the National Council of Y.M.C.A's of Great Britain, was 
recorded for broadcast on the Trans-Canada radio network of C.B.C. In the 
course of his speech, Sir Frank brought congratulatory letters to the 
Montreal Association from the Earl of Athlone, former Governor General of 
Canada, from His Grace, the Archbishop of Canterbury and from the Reve 
A.D. Harens, D.D., Moderator of the Free Church Federal Council of Great 
Britain. A complimentary message was received from His Majesty the Kings 

Greetings were presented by His Excellency, the Honorable 
Gaspard Fauteux, Lieutenant-Governor of Quebec; by J.O. Asselin, Chairman 
of the Executive Committee, in behalf of the City of Montreal; from the 
National Council of Y.M.C.A's of the United States by Eugene R. McCarthy, 
Chairman of the National Board; and by J.M.Pritzhard, President of the 
Canadian National Council. Public tribute was paid to the unselfish 
devotion and courageous leadership of the pioneers of our organization. 
Special mention was made of T. James Claxton and Francis E. Grafton, two 
of the founders and early Presidents of the Association; Samuel Massey, 
first employed officer (1853), and Alfred Sandham, First General Secretary 
(186); Dr. F.W. Kelley, a pioneer in adult education; George Hague; Daniel 
Budge, General Secretary for thirty-nine years; D.W. Ross, Abner Kingman, 
L.H. Packard, William Tees and Dr. John W. Ross, all former Presidents 
Dr. Frederick J, Tees, Judge Seth P, Leet, T.B. Macaulay, Rufus C. Holden 
and W.S. Leslie, Dr. A.O. Dawson and Morris W. Wilson; Gerald W. Birks, 
President for twenty-eight years, 

The announcement was also made that J.W. McConnell had graciously 
accepted the Honorary Presidency of the Association. The office was tendered 
by the Board of Directors in recognition of Mr. McConnell's many years of 
invaluable service to and generous support of the Association. 


Ie 


36 
MONTREAL CENTENNIAL OBSERVANCE (cont'd) 


In honour of his outstanding service of over forty years 
as a member of the staff of the International Committee in India, a 
plaque marking his election to Honorary Life Membership in the Montreal 
Association was presented to Charles S. Paterson, in absentia. A host 
of messages of congratulations received from Associations around the 
world gave dramatic emphasis to the world-wide nature of our Y.M.C.A. 
Movement. (See appendix). 

The Centennial Church Service was held in the First Baptist 
Church on Sunday, November 25th, and broadcast over Station C.B.M. Dre 
George P. Gilmour, President of McMaster University, was the guest 
speaker at the service, which was well attended by members and friends. 
Through the courtesy of Rev. M.F. McCutcheon, D.D., and his Board, this 
significant service was held in the Church whose original congregation 
was first organized and worshipped in the St. Helen Street edifice, 
in which the Y.M.C.A+ was founded 100 years ago. 

Many Protestant Churches throughout Greater Montreal 
recognized the Centennial in their services on November 25th. Special 
Y.MeC.As services were held at St. Andrew's Church, Westmount, Wesley 
United and Montreal West United Churches, at which Sir Frank Willis 
R.S. Hosking and Leslie Vipond, of the National Council, were the 
speakers. Representatives of the Montreal Association gave brief 
addresses in five churches, and in four others special Centennial 
sermons were given. 

Six Service Clubs recognized the Centennial by inviting 
YeM.eC.As speakers to address their regular meetings. 

Throughout the year, a large number of Centennial events 
were held in the various branches, camps and the College. Special 
Centennial emphasis was given at all branch annual meetings and at 
displays and banquets throughout the city. Birthday cakes, banners, 
crests, special membership cards and other devices have brought home 
to our members and friends the significance of the year 1951. 

Our Montreal Association was honoured by the visits of 
a number of distinguished laymen and secretaries who passed through 
our city en route to or from the International Convention at Cleveland. 
Many of them spent several days visiting our branches and camps. These 
included Senor Silas Raedar, General Secretary, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil 3 
Je Forrester-Paton, President of the World's Alliance of Y.M.C.A's of 
Geneva, Switzerland; Senor Hugo Grassi, General Secretary of the 
Federation of Y.M.C.A's of South America, of Montevideo, Uruguay; 
Robert Adam, General Secretary of the Edinburgh Y.li.C.A.; Scotland; 
Alexander Clark, Assistant Secretary, Y.M.C.A., Glasgow, Scotland; 
Senor Nicholas Harms, of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; Senor Arnold Kilmar, 
Program Secretary, Sao Paulo, Brazil; and Dr. S.Y. Chang, General 
Secretary, National Council of Y.M.C.A's of Koreae 


IT. 


le 
POLICY AND SURVEY COMMITTEE 


The Montreal Association, as it approached the close 
of its first century, recognized the need for a critical review 
of its programme and a careful study of the unmet needs of its 
constituency. Consequently, in 1949, a Policy and Survey Committee 
was formed: "to study our present branches, Sir George Williams 
College and Schools, in relation to the needs of their ese 
communities; to recommend new areas which require Y.M.C.A. 
services, and adjustments in areas now served; to study present — 
buildings operated by the Association and their adequacy to 
meet the needs, and recommend structural changes required; to 
consider what new buildings may be required and to prepare 
estimates of the annual maintenance costs involved in the 
recommendations," 

A study was made of detailed information on 
population trends, leisure time facilities and existing youth 
programmes in Greater Montreal, secured through the work of 
sub-committees in each of the branches and the Camp Committees, 
Late in 1951, the Policy and Survey Committee presented an 
interim report emphasizing certain pressing needse One is 
the urgent need for more adequate accommodation for Sir George 
Williams College and Schools which are now forced to turn away 
hundreds of young men and women seeking to enroll in evening 
classes. Today, the College in addition to the use of 
facilities in the Drummond-Stanley Building, is forced to rent 
accommodation in four other buildings. 

Other needs include: an extension of accommodation 
for work with boys and teen-agers in the Notre Dame de Grace Branch 
Building and replacement of the old wooden fieldhouse facilities; 
enlargement of locker room accommodation at Southwestern Branch; 
Association buildings in the rapidly growing residential areas 
in which the Lachine and Northmount Branches are operating. 

As the year drew to a close, the question of holding 
a Capital Funds Campaign in the near future became a matter 
for urgent consideration on the part of the Metropolitan Board 
of Directors. 


ITI. 


De 
PUBLICATION OF CENTENNIAL HISTORY 


"One Hundred Years of Service With Youth" is the 
title given to the history of the Montreal Association, published 
last year as a feature of the Centennial observance. Our main 
purpose is stated in the Foreword: "Through the medium of this 
book, the Association of today pays tribute to the unselfish 
devotion and courageous leadership of the pioneers. We acknowledge 
our debt to them and testify that the foundations on which later 
generations have built, were 'well and truly laid' ", 

In addition to the value of having a record of the 
years in permanent and accessible form, it was felt that the 
story of how the Montreal Association grew from a small society, 
meeting once a week in rented quarters, to the present-day 
complex organization of over 17,000 members, would help in the 
education of present and future’ leaders of the Organization. 

About 1,000 copies of the history have been 
distributed to the following; 


Members of the Metropolitan Board and Advisory Board; 
members of the eleven Branch Boards of Management, the 
College Board and the Camp Boards, (a total of approx~ 
imately 400); all Secretaries of the Montreal staff and 
Fellowship Secretaries in training; the larger contributors 
of the Montreal Association; the surviving members of 
families of the Founders; prominent Association workers 
of other years; secretaries who had previously worked on 
the Montreal staff; a selected list of local ministers, 
professors and teachers; local newspaper editors, all 
libraries and selected organizations; High School Libraries 
of Montreal; selected list of officials at Quebecs each 
YMCA in Canada, and secretaries at national headquarters ; 
graduates of the Montreal Fellowship Training Plan; 
selected list of retired secretaries; Libraries and Schools 
of Social Work in Canada; Divinity Colleges; national 
organizations: the Public Archives, Ottawa; National YMCA 
Headquarters, U...A.; the libraries at Springfield College, 
George Williams Collége, Chicago, and the YMCA Historical 
Library, New York; 25 Metropolitan Associations in the 
United States; Président and Secretaries of the World's 
Alliance, YMCE , Geneva; headquarters of each national 
movement around the world (approximately 50); National 
YMCA Headquarters in Great Britain and twenty leading 
British Associations. 


CENTENNIAL INTORNATIONAL CONVENTION 


"Faith for the Future" was the theme of the International 
Convention of Y.M.C.A's of Canada and the United States held in 
Cleveland, Ohio, June 21-2), to celebrate the 100th Anniversary of 
the founding of the first Y.M.C.A- in North America at Montreal. 

Seven plenary sessions were held in the Cleveland Public 
Auditorium attended by 6,600 delegates and visitors. Four main 
addresses were delivered: "A Faith for These Times", by Dr. Ralph 
We Sockmans "Conditions of World Peace and World Unity", by Dr. 

Ralph Je Bunche; "Democracy as a Way of Life", by Paul G. Hoffman ; 
and "Every Man's Occupation a Christian Vocation", by Dr. John Oliver 
Nelson. Ten simultaneous forums considered the issues and tasks 
arising from preparatory study of these themese 

Perhaps the most significant meeting of the convention 
program was presented on "World Brotherhood Night", Two hundred 
guests from abroad in colourful costumes, representing Associations 
in over forty countries throughout the world carried the flags of 
their respective countries in procession down the main aisle of the 
great auditorium to the platform. This formed the introduction 
to a pictorial historical review of the first fifty Associations in 
North America, and was the background for the messages from abroad 
which were presented - impressive testimony to the work of the 
International Committee of Y.M.C.A's of North America and its World 
Service programme. 

Before, during and after the great International 
Convention, fourteen related YMCA conventions and conferences were 
held. These included the Association of Secretaries, Conference of 
Student Y.M.C.A's, International Transportation Department Assembly, 
Association of Y's Men's Clubs, Physical Education Congress, the 
North American Young Adult Assembly, Armed Services Assembly, the 
Sixth National Hi-Y Congress, a World Consultation on Young Men's 
Work and a meeting of the Exccutive of the World's Committee of 
YoM.CoA'Se 

Montreal was represented on the Convention programme 
by John M, Pritchard, as its vice-chairman, and presiding officer 
of one of the plenary sessions; John W. Beaton as a member of the 
Business Committee, and John Jackson, one of our Fellowship Secretaries, 
as one of four youth speakers at a plenary session. 

Our delegation of 111 persons was one of the largest 
from any single Association. More than half were young adults and 
Hi-Y boys and girls, who participated in weeks of intensive study 
prior to the Convention. All were tremendously impressed by the 
experiences 


Ve 


Te 
PROGRAMME 


Because of the space already devoted to recording the 
many unusual activities related to the observance of our Centennial, 
it is not possible, within the scope of this report to describe, 
except in briefest outline, the comprehensive range of varied programme 
which has been conducted during the past year in the eleven branches 
of the Montreal Y.M.C.A+- and in the communities they serve. Detailed 
summaries of all programme activities are included in reports which 
have been presented at branch annual meetingse 

Common to all branch programme has been the Centennial 
emphasis, as clubs, groups and classes, large and small, individually 
and collectively celebrated our 100th Anniversary, at some time during 


1951. 
Clubs and Groups: 
in all, 851 purpose clubs, classes and interest groups 


were listed in our city-wide programme, showing an increase of 92 
percent over the previous yeare 

The number of school clubs increased from 33 to hh, with 
an enrollment of 1,032 boys and girls. These self-governing clubs 
include 17 Senior and Junior Hi-Y Clubs in 9 High Schools throughout 
the metropolitan area. A new Boys' Senior Hi-Y Club was organized 
in Chambly County School during the year. Fifty-six of our senior 
Hi-Y boys and girls attended the Annual Regional Eastern Ontario and 
Quebec Conference held in Ottawa. 

Twenty-three Gra-Y Clubs were conducted in 19 elementary 
schools. Thirty-four other small self-governing clubs enrolled 19 
boys and girls of elementary school age, including 1) Neighbourhood=¥Y 
Clubs. 

In adult membership also, purpose and fellowship clubs 
have increased in number. Thirty-four such clubs enrolled 12h0 
young men and women. 


Informal Education: 

The second annual Model United Nations Assembly held in 
our Association Hall attracted twenty-five groups of young men and 
women, each group representing one of the United Nations. The three 
sessions of the Model Assembly dealt with an agenda of topics currently 
before the United Nations at Lake Success. The high quality of the 
debating on the part of the young speakers left little doubt of the 
success of this educational programme, whose purpose is to develop 
an intelligent interest in international affairs and, more particularly, 
in how the United Nations organization functions. The cooperation 


or 
PROGRAMME (cont'd) 


of the Department of External Affairs, Ottawa, the Canadian Institute 
of International Affairs, and the United Nations Information Service 
at Lake Success, in making material available to all groups, was 
greatly appreciated, 

Other cultural activities included arts and crafts, music 
appreciation, public speaking, dramatics, radio listening, etc. The 
annual So-Ed programs have attractcd large groups of young people in 
several branches. 

New Canadians from all parts of the Metropolitan area 
continued to enroll in ever+increasing numbers in the significant 
programme provided for them at our International Branch, which has 
been in existence since the close of World War I, The wisdom of the 
move by the Branch to the Park Avenue building, with greatly improved 
teaching facilities, has become increasingly evident particularly in 
the language classes, which are of such vital importance to newcomers 
to our country, Each week-day evening, summer and winter, three 
sessions have been held in each classroom, with beginners, inter 
mediate and advanced instruction given by a staff of expert teachers, 
using the direct method in teaching English and French, Total 
attendance in these classes for the year 1951 was 27,86. 


Physical Activities: 


The comprehensive Physical Fitness programme carried on 
in the branches inclwies almost every recognized form of recreation. 
These included regular gymnasium classes, basketball, volleyball, 
badminton, weight-training, boxing, wrestling, fencing, tennis, 
baseball, football and hockey, Inter-branch athletic competitions 
have been held periodically. Notable among these events were 
Christmas and Eastcr Basketball Jamborees for boys, monthly Progressive 
Swimming Meets for boys and girls, and monthly Gymnastic Meets for 
young mene Special Learn-to-Swim Campaigns for school children have 
been held in each of our five branch buildings containing swimming 
pools, 

The Y.M.C.A+ Ski Club at Christieville has become well 
established, and the capacity club membership of 135 was reached 
early in January. The happy experience of many young men and women 
from the Metropolitan area in this popular winter sport, and especially 
in the instruction classes, amply justifies this outdoor recreational 
programme of the Montreal Associations 


Summer Programme : 

Summer programme has received increasing emphasis in our 
Association both in the city and in our three summer campse A record 
total enrollment of 2,050 boys and girls in ten ‘City Day Camps marked 
an increase of 28% over the previous year. In addition, a summer 
programme was conducted for 200 boys and girls of the new Northmount 
Branche 


Ve 


VI. 


Pe 


PROGRAMME (cont'd) 


Our three well-equipped summer camps experienced 
successful seasonse Each year brings changes and developmonts 
in the camping programme. In our Laurentian camps = Otoreke on 
Lake St. Joseph, for young men and women, and Kanawana near Ste 
Sauveur, for boys - canoe trips away from established camp sites 
play an increasingly important role for experienced campers. A 
greater number of weck-end visitors to Otoreke than in previous 
seasons resulted in a total increase of camperse In spite of an 
unusually wet summer, aggregate attendance at Kamp Kanawana was 
above the previous yeare 

A capacity registration was recorded at our near—the- 
city camp on Ile Perrot for the six-weck period for boys and two= 
week period for girls. Through the generous gift of J. Ernest 
Millen and family, a completely equipped, modern handicraft workshop 
was opened and dedicated in mid-summer as the Laddie Millen 
Memorial Craft Shop. 

There was total registration of 1,929 campers, men, 
women, boys and girls, for the past season in the three permanent 
CampS e 


PERSONAL SERVICES 


In all of our branches and in the College and Schools, 
thousands of young men and women are continually seeking guidance and 
counselling in the many perplexing problems which confront them in 
every-day life in a large metropolitan city. 

Understanding workers have consistently sought to help 
these young people, through personal interviews, to a better understanding 
of themselves and to discover how to make the best use of their resources.e 
A wide variety of problems are involved, and include home and Church 
relationships, making friends, constructive use of leisure time, 
planning of education and vocation in relationship to ability, needs 
and interests. During the past year, 59,773 such interviews were 
reportede 

The Y.M.C.A+ continued to be of service to youth seeking 
counsel either in securing their first jobs or in their efforts to 
improve or change the type of work in which they are engaged. The 
total number of placements made was 513. 

Our three residences, at Contral Branch (560 beds), 
International and Westmount Branches (31 beds in each) have recorded 
a total occupancy of 221,776 bed nights during the past year. Priority 
has been given to newcomers to our city, and to Canada. 

Our help is constantly sought in securing outside 
accommodation for young men whom we have not been able to place in 
our residences. Through the Rooms Registries of Central and Westmount 
Branches, hundreds of these young men have secured congenial living 
quarters in homes. 


LO. 
VITe SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS COLLEGE AND SCHOOLS 
a END OC HUOLS | 


Another milestone in the history of Sir George Williams 
College and Schools was passed when the total enrollment in all units 
of the winter term passed the 6000 mark for the first times 

In this respect, it is of interest to note the following 
record of the College's growth in the past three decades; 


1921-2 500 191-2 3153 
1925-6 702 195-6 167 
1931-2 1233 1950-1 5721 
1935-6 1031 1951-2 6075 


In those thirty years » the College has had an increase 
of more than 1100%, about 500% in the last 15 yearse It has more 
than tripled since the year before the war, and increased 70.5% 
since the war closed, 

But it should not be forgotten that the formal educational 
work of the Montreal Y.M.C.A. has been in constant operation since 
1873, and that the same major purposes have motivated it throughout 
all these 79 years, even if the largest part of its numerical growth 
has taken place in the last three decades. The whole forwal educational 
work of the Association was not consolidated under the name of Sir 
George Williams College until 1926, after its period of active modern 
development had been well started. 

The College proper (the Faculties of Arts, Science and 
Commerce) instituted as a distinct unit in 1929 with 30 students, 
is now the major unit with 3382, 717 of them ina day division which 
did not exist until 1932, At tho last Convocation, 256 Bachelor!s 
Degrees were awarded in addition to ll Diplomas of Associate and 2 
Diplomas in Association Science (the latter to men in training for 
the Y.M.C.A. Secretaryship). 

The distribution of registration in the past academic 
year has been as follows: 


SUMMER TERM (JUNE TO SEPT. 1 


DAY = EVENING =‘ TOTAL 
College(Faculties of Arts, 


Science & Commerce ~ 909 909 
High School - 319 319 
Business School _78 280 358 


Total College & Schools ae 1508 1586 


VII. 


lle 
SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS COLLEGE AND SCHOOLS (cont'd) 


WINTER TERM 1951-1952 


DAY EVENING TOTAL 

College (Faculties of Arts, 
Science & Commerce Ti? 2665 3382 
High School - 1208 1208 
Elementary School - peas 131 
Business School 237 855 1092 
Art School [2 190 262 
TOTAL 1026 509 6075 
Total Summer & Winter Terms - 110) 6nc7 7661 


It should be recorded, that about twothirds of the 
evening classes in the College and Schools during the past year 
were filled and closed to further registration before the opening 
night of classes. As a result several hundreds of potential students 
were denied admission, and it was impossible to offer a number of 
courses which would be desirable in the College's curricula. Further 
growth in evening registration cannot be expected, therefore, until 
some of the space problems which now beset the institution have 
been solved, 

The informal extra-curricular activities of the College 
and Schools constitute an extensive programme of cultural, educational, 
social, recreational and athletic projects, which supplement the work: 
of the formal classes in an exceedingly important way. They involve 
hundreds of students in more than 37 organized clubs and groups and 
some 12 different athletic activities, 

Besides a full day programme, there were 386 evening 
classes offered during the past winter term, with some 50 others 
during the summer term. The staff consisted of some 300 persons, 

70 of them full-time, 

The College continued to operate in four rented "annexes"! 
in addition to its share of the Drummond-Stanley Street Y.M.C.A. 
building. Through twelve months in the year, from 9:00 aeme to 
10:30 peme, most of this extensive plant is in constant use, crowded 
with ambitious young students and bustling with activitye 

The College is prone to emphasize and be very proud of 
its colourful Evening Division, with its 5000 students drawn from 
all walks of life, of all ages and backgrounds = but it must not be 
forgotten that the Day Division of its Faculties of Arts, Science 
and Commerce is in itself an exccedingly important unit of higher 
educatione It is no longer a small College, and upon it must rest 
the responsibilities morally imposed by its new ranking as one of 
Canada's universities. Within the limits of these academic oblig- 
ations, it must continue to give expression to those basic philosophies 
of education which brouglit it into being and_have fostered and 
promoted its growth, 


VIII. 


126 


CHRISTIAN EMPHASIS 


The problem of achieving our Christian purpose is a 
continuing challenge to the Association, and during the past 
year unusual attention was given to the subject. Much preliminary 
study was undertaken by individuals and groups in advance of the 
Cleveland Convention meetings. Six hundred North American Y.M.C.A. 
groups and leaders took part in an inquiry concerning crucial 
problems of youth and of our times, upon which was based the 
Conference theme "Faith for the Futuree" A book by Charles C. 
Noble provided guidance to study groups giving thoughtful 
consideration to the renewing of our Christian faith, re- 
discovering our sense of Christian vocation, strengthening 
Democracy as a way of life and seeking world peace and unitye 
The Montreal Association benefitted from its participation in 
this continent-wide effort. 

Seme 1,500 secretaries attended the Triennial 


Conference held prior to the International Convention in June. 


Under the theme"Professional Perspectives in an Uncharted World!" 
they studied the role of the YMCA secretary today. Our Montreal 
staff during the winter months shared in the preliminary studies 
leading up to the Conference, which a number attended. 

On many occasions throughout the past year responsible 
groups of the Montreal Association met to evaluate programme in 
the light of the needs of youth and our Christian objectives. In 
February, a conference of those responsible for boys! work was held, 
with four delegates from each branch attending. Mr. Leslie Vipond, 
National Boys! ‘iork Secretary, took part in the discussions which 
dealt with programme, leadership, membership and evaluations 

We have had opportunity to emphasize the Association's 
Christian objectives at branch week-end conferences, Hi-Y Officers! 
Training Conference, seasonal worship services, club induction 
services, and in observance of the Week of Prayers A series of 
Lenten letters sent out by Central Branch proved helpful. The 
"Captain's Chapel" in the Central building has been open daily 
for meditation, 


136 
MEMBERSHIP 


The number of different members during the year reached 
a total of 23,860, the highest in our history. At December 31st, 
1951, the total membership was 14,719, which represents an increase 
of 1,16) over the total at the same date a year ago. This was 
largely due to the opening of the new Northmount Branch and an 
increase in College enrollment. 

Membership by branches was as follows: 

Different members Total at 


A By Branches: during the year Dece 3151951 
Central 4,782 3,08 
Sir George Williams College 79359 5 807 
Southwestern 2,326 1,492 
Notre Dame de Grace 3,427 1,262 
International 25330 ee i | 
Westmount 73h 12 
City Hall Avenue 33h 17 
Lachine 669 263 
Montreal East 530 93 
Point St. Charles 287 185 
Rosemount 57h 313 
Northmount 509 509 ( mos) 


23,860 15,304 
ee 


Less duplications 


719 
B By Sex: y 
Male 7002 
Female 29,8 


The above figures do not include an additional 2,053 
registered non-member participants in Association activities, and 
an estimated 119,000 persons who made occasional use of our buildings 
and services as non-memberse 


Xe 


lhe 


FINANCE AND PROPERTY 


The Annual Financial Campaign was held in November, 

On an objective of $183,000, the final returns amounted to $187,000 
from more than 9,900 individuals and corporations, the highest 

number ever recorded in an annual appeal. The campaign was under the 
leadership of John J.F. Bancroft, as General Chairman with J.A.Fuller 
as Chairman of Special Names, Twenty-four new names were added to 
the list of sponsors bringing the total to 245, In addition, 16 
laymen rendered excellent service as Chairmen of Divisions. The 
total working force exceeded 1,300 persons, It was supported by 

an effective publicity programme and the campaign objective was 
reached within the two week period, Underwritings which were 
included in the final report were all realized in the post campaign 
period. Hon. Mr. Justice Roy Ly Kellock of Ottawa, an active YMCA 
layman, addressed the opening dinner and helped a great deal to 
bring to the attention of the workers the real purpose of the = 
Association, 

Each year as heavy usage continues, our buildings and 
equipment require more and more attention to ensure an adequate 
standard of maintenance. In addition to routine decorating and 
repairs, the following major items were completed at a total cost 
of $2,132.00; 

Drummond=Stanley Building = replacement of exterior 
steps at Drummond Street and other important repair and decorating 
items. 

International Branch = Completion of the rehabilitation 
program commenced in the preceding year. 

Westmount Branch ~ Re-tiling Residence Shower Room and 
major changes in the wash room and toilet facilities to provide for 
women and girls work, 

Southwestern Branch - Renewal of power re-wirings 

Notre Dame de Grace Branch - Substantial equipment 
replacements and other repair itemse 

Kamp Kanawana - New refrigeration facilities and 
replacement of Lower Pavilion building. 

The construction was completed of a fully~equipped 
Craft Shop at Camp Perrot, as a memorial to the late Laddie Millen, 
through the generosity of J. Ernest Millen and the members of his 
family. This tangible intcrest by the donors in the efforts of the 
Association on behalf of youth is very deeply appreciated, 

During the year the Association acquired through its 
Nominee, the Montreal Trust Company, properties located at 1h35 
Drummond Street and 136 Stanley Street, as the first step ina 
general plan to provide more adequate facilities for the Sir George 
Williams College, These propertics arc now being administered by 
the Montreal Trust Company and the net income is sufficient to pay 
the carrying charges on the capital outlaye 


XI. 


156 


PERSONNEL 


Volunteer leadership - 

During the past year a marked increase of 33 per cent 
has been noted in the number of volunteer men and women who have 
rendered loyal service as leaders in our regular programme. This 
includes 220 leaders of clubs and groups, and 1,546 members of Boards, 
Committees and Councils. 


Secretarial Staff - 

Changes which have occurred in our Secretarial staff: 

Following the death of John W. Beaton, General Secretary, 
Harold C. Cross, formerly Programme Secretary, was appointed Acting 
General Secretary. 

JeR. Hupfield resigned as Executive Secretary of the 
Rosemount Branch to become General Secretary of the Stratford YMeCoAey 
and was replaced by D. Campbell MacLeod, formerly General Secretary 
at Saskatoon, 

Arthur W. Jordan, of the Montreal East Branch, was 
appointed Executive Secretary of the newly-organized Northmount Branch 
and was succeeded by He Gordon McFarlane upon his graduation from 
Sir George Williams College, 

L.B. Bagot resigned as Membership Secretary of Central 
Branch and was succeeded by Ralph Erskine, formerly Physical Director. 
James Carnie, formerly Young Men's Programme Secretary, was appointed 
Physical Director. 

Miss Carrie Brodie resigned from the Notre Dame de Grace 
Branch as Physical Director in the Women's and Girls! Department, and 
was succeeded by Miss Beverly Lowery, graduate of the University of 
Toronto School of Health and Physical Education, 

Miss Bernice McHaffie resigned from the Southwestern 
Branch. 

Miss Thelma Gerstman, of the International Branch staff, 
was granted a year's leave of absence to exchange positions with Miss 
Elizabeth Burlingham, of Fry-Cadbury's,Bourneville, England, 

Twenty-cight Fellowship students, secretaries-in-training, 
who are studying at Sir George Williams College and McGill University, 
were assigned to Branches as follows: 

Central = Cecil Woods, Douglas Allan, James Mair, Lew 

Innes, Richard Broadhurst, Charles Griffith, Norman 

Hefler and George Sinclair, 

Sir George Williams College = Robert Butler and Richard 

Thompsone 

Northmount - Harold Fuller and Miss Norma Roantree. 

Montreal East - Miss Sheila Gilbert and Lloyd Ring. 


XI. 


XII. 


166 
PERSONNEL (cont'd) 


Westmount - Niles Ring and William Gerhardt. 
International - John Jackson and Ronald J. Edwards. 
Rosemount - Roy Dingle. 

Point St. Charles - Tony Lugar and Gilbert Playfair. 
Southwestern -— Andrew Allan and Malcolm Fuller. 
Notre Dame de Grace - Stuart Donaldson. 

Lachine - Fred Bezansone 

City Hall Avenue - Gus Oki, David Williams and 
Kenneth MacKeracher,. 


Twenty-two members of our staff and five Fellowship 
students attended the Centennial International Convention at 
Cleveland and related Conferences, ' 

Three members of our Secretarial staff, Miss Greta 
Lett, Arthur W. Jordan, and J» Gordon Clarke were granted Certification 
as fully qualificd secretaries of the Associations 


NATIONAL COUNCIL 


The National Council of Y.M.C.A's of Canada appointed 
a Centennial Committee to encourage local Associations in their 
observance of the 100th Anniversary. At an enlarged Executive 
Committee meeting, honorary life memberships were presented to 
twenty-three persons who had rendered signal service to the National 
movement. Five Montreal men were so honoured: J.W. Beaton, General 
Secretary, John B. Frosst, President, H. Jasper Humphrey, Chairman 
of the National Centennial Committee, George Hodge and Harold M. Longy 
members of the Metropolitan Board, An abbreviated annual meeting 
of the Council was held during the Cleveland Convention. 

A National Centennial Fund of $40,000.00 was raised, 
to which the Montreal Association contributed $10,000.00. This 
fund enabled the National Council to undertake a number of projects 
related to the Centennial of the Association. Notable among these 
was the publication of a History of the Canadian Y.M.C.A. written by 
Dr. Murray Ross. 


17s 
XIII. WORLD SERVICES 


Throughout this report there has been constant 
reference, both directly and indirectly, to the world~-outreach 
of the Montreal Association, This involves our relationships with 
the World's Alliance of Y.M.C.A's, and with the national movements 
in over 70 countries around the world. The Centennial celebrations 
made this fact increasingly real to all of use 

Once again the Montreal Association reached its World 
Services financial objective for 1951, The total amount contributed 
from Canada was $104. .537 e006. The local results were as follows: 


1951 Total 
Objective Secured 

Metropolitan Board $1655956 $15 4890.00 
Central Branch 25900. 2590672 
Sir George Williams College 1,000. 92 lO 
Westmount Branch 900. 902 «33 
International Branch 9006 906456 
City Hall Avenue Branch 250. 250052 
Notre Dame de Grace Branch 1,305 ws 7330» 18 
Southwestern Branch 5356 56 9.65 
Lachine Branch 350. 350005 
Montreal East Branch 80. 68.60 
Rosemount Branch 100. 100.00 
Point Ste Charles Branch 706 77030 
Northmount Branch = ad 
Camp Otoreke 300. 11293 
Kamp Kanawana 115. 119,.0k 
Camp Perrot 100. 82,6 


$25 95000 = 2g 935e7h 


Bequest by late W.S. Leslie 1,000.00 
$25 9935 07h 


XIVe 


16. 


OBITUARIES 


It is with profound sorrow that this annual report must 
record the sudden passing on December 6th, 1951, of John Wellington 
Beaton, General Secretary for the past thirty-one yearse In referring 
to the irreparable loss suffered by the Montreal Association, the 
Board of Directors expressed themselves as follows: 


J.W. Beaton was completely devoted to the service of 
youth, With a high sense of duty, he gave himself unreservedly 
to the work. Having an unusual capacity for friendship, he 
willingly paid the price involved in maintaining contact with 
an immonse circle of friends in this community and throughout 
the world. 

His was an extremely generous nature, This was seen 
in his sense of personal stewardship, and was also in evidence 
daily in his relationships with his colleagues on the staff, 
His attitude inspired the Montreal Association to develop a 
breadth of view, with regard to its national and international 
relationships and responsibilitics, which is revealed in the 
record of the past few decades. 

In spite of the brilliance of his accomplishments, Mre 
Beaton remained a man of deep humility, keenly sensitive to the 
presence of God, and constantly sought His guidance. His daily 
life was a continuous witness to the supreme worth of spiritual 
values. Ina unique degree, he possessed the ability to 
bring out the best in the men with whom he came in contact and 
there are many who will always be grateful for the opportunities 
of growth which he opened up to theme 

Mr. Beatonts significant leadership in the development 
of the Montreal Association is clearly seen in the records of 
this Board during the past thirty years, At our recently 
observed Centennial when the work of the century was reviewed, 
it was evident that in the progress achieved during the term of 
his service, the traditions and standards of the earlier years 
were more than maintained. Because of his outstanding leadership, 
the Montreal Association enters its second century stronger 
than it has ever been in its long history. 

The influence of J.W. Beaton was exercised far beyond 
the borders of this citys Few YMCAs of Canada have not been 
directly helped by him, through wise counsel or specific servicese 
He actively shared in the direction of the national movement, 
and of the International Committee's work. In later years, he 
was called upon to share increasingly in the affairs of the 
world movement. 


196 
XIV. OBITUARIES (cont'd) 


While the Association was his main concern, he was first 
of all a loyal and active churchman. Greatly interested in the 
missionary cause, he was privileged on many occasions to help 
broaden the point of view of the laymen of the churches with 
regard to their responsibilities and opportunities in extending 
the Kingdom of God. 

Though death has removed our beloved leader, his 
spirit and influence will live on. His example will always 
be an inspiration and challenge to higher achievement. We 
thank God for all that he has meant to us, individually and 
as an Association, 


The Montreal Association received messages of appreciation 
and sympathy from literally all over the world, which indicated the 
high regard in which lir. Beaton was held, in this city and elsewhere, 


We also must record the loss in 1951 of three old and 
tried friends of the Association in the passing of R.W. Long, James 
Keith and the Rev. T.W. Jones, 

R.W. Long, a member of the Metropolitan Board of Directors, 
had a life-long relationship to the Y.I.C.A. In 1930 when the first 
Board of Management of the Notre Dame de Grace Branch was appointed, 
he was elected Chairman. His friendly counsel, sound judgement and 
abiding interest in youth were decisive factors in the rapid develop 
ment of our work in the western section of the city. In 1933, Mr. Long 
was elected to the Metropolitan Board and later appointed to the 
Finance Committee, where he served continuously until his death. 

As an active member of the Building Committee for the Notre 
Dame de Grace Building, Mr. Long was indefatigable in the arduous task 
of planning, financing and erecting this new structure, which was 
formally opened in 190. This Association and the youth whose lives 
have been enriched by it, owe a deep debt of gratitude to this modest 
Christian gentleman, 

In the passing of the Very Reverend T.W. Jones, DeD., 
Minister of Calvary United Church, the Montreal Association lost one 
of its most helpful and loyal friends, 

While a young man in business, Dr. Jones decided to enter 
the Christian ministry. He studied for his university matriculation 
in the Y.M.C.A. evening classes in the old Dominion Square Building. 

In the midst of his academic training, he served nearly four years 
during the First World War with the Canadian Y.M.C.A+ Military Service, 


206 
XIV. OBITUARIES (cont'd) 


working on trans-Atlantic troop shipse In 1920, he became minister 
of Calvary United Church, and throughout his long ministry there, he 
rendered invaluable assistance to our Association. Dre. Jones became 
a valued member of the Board of Governors of Sir George Williams 
College and Schools, a relationship which remained unbroken until 
his death. At the outbreak of World War II, Dr. Jones proceeded 
overseas as Senior Supervisor of Y.M.C.A. War Services with the First 
Canadian Division, Transferred back to Canada in 192, he rendered 
a unique national service through public addresses in all parts of the 
country in which he interpreted the spirit of the British people, 
and the Canadian Y.M.C.A. War Services. 

Dr. Jones was a deeply appreciated speaker at Hi-Y, 
Young Adult and Leaders' Corps conferences, annual meetings, chapel 
services and innumerable other Association gatherings. In common 
with the United Church of Canada, of which he was an ex-Moderator, 
as well as with the Christian Church as a whole in Canada and all 
other constructive forces of our community, this Association grate- 
fully acknowledges its debt to him, 

James Keith rendered outstanding service to the youth 
of Greater Montreal through his long years of Christian service as 
an outstanding layman and Board member of the Southwestern Branch, 
Verdun, Mr. Keith was an active member of the group which initiated 
Association work in Verdun in 1919, Later he was elected Chairman 
of the Board of Management. His enthusiasm and untiring efforts 
contributed greatly to the institution of the Southwestern Branch 
and the opening of the Verdun building 1n 1929. At the time of 
his death, Mr. Keith was Honorary Chairman of the Board. In his 
passing, the Association has suffered the loss of a loyal Christian 
friend. 


XVe APPRECIATION 


The Association has continued to enjoy close cooperative 
relationships with many community organizations interested in the welfare 
of youth. Inspirational club inducation services have been held by kind 
permission of the ministers in a number of Protestant churches during 
the past ycare Especially in neighbourhoods served by our community 
branches, many regular club meetings have been held in homes as a 
result of the sympathetic support and interest of parents. We acknow+ 
ledge the continued cooperation of the Montreal Central Protestant 
School Board in making available at modest rent, facilities for our 


XV. 


XVIe 


2le 
APPRECIATION (cont'd) 


programmes in Rosemount, Montreal East, Point St. Charles, Lachine 
and Northmount Branches. We extend our appreciation to the Service 
Clubs of Greater Montreal, and have enjoyed cooperation with the 
Montreal Council of Social Agencies, of which the Y.M.C.A. is a 
Corporate member, the Religious Education Council, the Canadian 
Camping Association, the Young Women's Christian Association, the 
Young Men's—Young Women's Hebrew Association, the Youth Hostel 
Association and the Quebec Federation of Youth Organizations, 

We are grateful to the daily and weekly press and to 
the radio stations for their generous support in furthering the 
work of the Association. 

To all officers, members of Boards and Committees, 
to all volunteer leaders and workers on behalf of the Y.M.C.A., to 
the staff of secretaries and all others who have rendered useful 
service in our Christian enterprise, we tender our deep gratitude. 


CONCLUSION 


The statistical and financial data covering 1951 
operations are given on the final pages of this report. However, 
the true measure of the year's worth is to be found in the experiences 
of persons, The results are to be found in the lives of boys and 
girls, and young men and women, and of all those who shared in the 
achievements of the year, Such results would tell the thrill of 
adventure into new ficlds of knowledge, and of newly acquired skills. 
They would describe the satisfaction which came from services well 
performed and goals achieved, They would record vital experiences 
which inspired and led to higher spiritual purposes. These are the 
intangibles in the realm of the spirit which statistical data cannot 
reveal. 

In closing this Annual Report, in which we have recorded 
the completion of a century of service with youth in this great 
Metropolis, may we remind ourselves that we have already entered the 
first year of our Second Century. Whatever pride we feel with reference 
to the past is tempered with humility as we visualize the opportunities 
as yet unmet. As we face the future, we subscribe to the affirmation 
made at the Cleveland Convention of "the unalterable conviction that 
fellowship in Christ is a living philosophy that will surmount all 
obstacles to bring complete peace and brotherhood eventually to all 
mene" The Association moves forward with what is essentially its 
original purpose, and with faith in the same spiritual resources which 
made possible the achievements of the first hundred yearse 


Respectfully submitted, 


Acting General Secretary 


APPENDIX A. 
CENTENNIAL GREETINGS FROM MANY LANDS 


Note: The world-wide nature of the Association was graphically demonstrated 
in the messages sent to Montreal from all parts of the world in 
November. Brief extracts from letters and cables follow: 


World's Alliance, Geneva 


The World's Alliance of the Young Men's Christian Associations, 
the second oldest world-wide ecumenical movement, joins with your 
Association in remembering its glorious years of service to the youth 
of Montreal. Your strong, forward-looking Association has refused to 
limit its services and vision to the youth of Montreal and Canada, but 
has been "a magnetic stimulus" to others around the world, 


J» Forrester-Paton, 
President. 


International Committee, New York 


International Committee sends heartiest congratulations on 
notable achievements of past, deep appreciation Montreal's great 
contribution through men and financial support to World Services 
program and best wishes for years ahead. 


Cleveland E. Dodge, 
Burma 


The YMCAs of Burma are pleased to join with other national 
movements in sending greetings and best wishes to the Montreal Assoc- 
iation on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of its foundinge 


National Board of the YMCAs 
of Burma ¢ 


Ceylon 


YMCAs of Ceylon congratulate your Association on a century of 
outstanding service both to youth in Montreal and, through its 
magnificent international outreach, to youth of our Asian and other 
lands. May Montreal Association be enabled to achieve still greater 
local, national and international service in coming yearse 


Robert Buell, 
General Secretary. 


CENTENNIAL GREETINGS FROM MANY LANDS (cont'd) A 


Egypt 


England 


Germany 


Greece 


The Egyptian YMCA Board, staff and members send Montreal 
Association Centennial greetings and best wishes for another century 
of Christian service at home base and on behalf world youth. 


Kelada, 
National Secretarye 


Sir Frank Willis personally brought greetings from the National 
Councils of England, Ireland, Wales and Scotland to the audience at 
the Centennial Dinner. 


You have the great privilege to celebrate on Nov. 25th the 
centenary of the founding of the first Y.M.C.A- in America at 
Montreal. We appreciate very much the importance of the event not 
only for your Association but also for the whole Y.M.C.A+ world. 
Your Association had, as we know, an extraordinary share in the 
world-wide activity of the International Committee. I wish to 
associate myself and the movement I represent with all good wishes 
for the future of your work and for a close cooperation between 
our two National Committees to the glory of Gode 


D. Erich Stange, 
National Secretarye 


Greek YMCA sends hearty congratulations and warm fraternal 
greetings on occasion of 100th Anniversary Montreal Associatione. May 
you have a blessed and fruitful second century. 


HeA-Alivisatos, 
Presidente 


Hong Kong 


Hong Kong Chinese YMCA sends heartiest congratulations 
remarkable growth of work effective service to youth during century. 
Deep appreciation your support leadership given this Associations 
Best wishes for greater achievements second century. 


Lam Chi Fung, 
Chairmane 


CENTENNIAL GREETINGS FROM MANY LANDS (cont'd) 36 


India, Pakistan and Ceylon 


Japan 


Korea 


Council India, Pakistan, Ceylon sends warm congratulations on 
occasion your centenary. Your long record service to foreign 
Associations through sending fraternal secretaries and providing 
facilities our nationals for training deeply appreciated. Please 
accept our grateful thanks for much valued fellowship throughout years 
and our best wishes for continued service and friendship in years 
aheade 


Maharaj Singh, 
Presidente 


Our Italian Y.M.C.A. which celebrated its 100th birthday this 
year sends its sincere best wishes to Montreal along with its hearty 
thanks for the year-in year-out assistance Montreal has helped make 
possible through the International Committee. The President and the 
General Secretary of our Italian National Federation join me in 
congratulating Montreal on its outstanding record and its challenging 
leadership in our great movement. 


Avve Ignazio Scotto, 
Presidente 


It is with great pleasure that we extend our heartiest greetings 
to your Association on the great occasion of the Centennial celebratione 
We pay our highest respect to the founders and leaders of your 
Association, who have made such a lasting and significant contribution 
to the development of Y.M.C.A. throughout the world. 


Takeo Igarashi, 
Chairmane 


Korea Associations sorely stricken again resurgent send greetings 
Montreal's Centenary and deepest appreciation for outstanding 
contribution to World Services 


Fitche 


CENTENNIAL GREETINGS FROM MANY LANDS (cont'd) he 
Mexico 


We here in Mexico are aware of the significant contribution of 
the Montreal Association down through the years to our movement, and 
we are deeply grateful as one of the recipients of your alert 
cooperation in our foreign work, "Saludos Carifiosos" on this, your 
great celebration of the founding of the first YMCA in America, in 
Montreal, November 25, 1851. 


The YMCA Movement of Mexico. 
Philippines 


As you celebrate the founding of the first YMCA in America 
at Montreal, we send you our warmest greetings and sincere congrat= 
ulations. It was the North American Associations which brought the 
YMCA Movement to the Philippines, nursed it with men and material aid, 
and now continue to give it life-giving transfusions after it has 
been profusely bled in the last war. We take this opportunity to 
express our gratitude and to assure you of our tireless efforts toward 
the attainment of our common goal - the Christian democratic way of 
life and World Brotherhood, 


Domingo Ce Bascarae 


South America 


On the occasion of the centenary of the Y.M.C.A. in Montreal, 
the South American Federation of Young Men's Christian Associations 
send their heartiest congratulations, and best wishes for the continued 
progress of that institution. Our hopes for that progress are based 
on the history of the Association in Montreal, as during its hundred 
years of life it has shown itself saturated with the faith in the 
cause it maintains, which is shown not only in the service of its own 
community, but in the generous cooperation given in the World Movemente 


Cristopher G,. Coates, 
President. 


Thailand 


On behalf of the Y.M.C.A. of Bangkok, Thailand, we congratulate 
the Association of Montreal on the celebration of its One Hundredth 
Anniversary. The courageous and vital services rendered to its city 
and to the Association world movement for the past century have given 
the Montreal Y.M.C.A. renowne And we confidently expect that the 
period ahead will give your fellowship even greater Christian 
opportunities than it has had in the paste 


Dumrong Changtrakul, 
President. 


APPENDIX B. 
HISTORICAL SKETCH 


Issued on the occasion of 
The Centennial of the Montreal Y.M.C.A. 


Just one hundred years ago ~ on November 25th, 1851 - a group of 
Montreal young men gathered together in St. Helen Street Baptist Church and 
organized the Young Men's Christian Association, the first to be established 
on the North American continent. 


Two, at least, of these young men, who ranged in age from 20 to 30 
years, already knew of the original Y.M.C.A. founded by George Williams and 
his friends in London, England, in 18). They felt that a similar organization 
was need in Montreal, then a small port city of 57,000 people, Although 
conditions in the colonial city were quite different from those in England, 
young men in large numbers were streaming into Canada ( then known as "The 
British Provinces ") from across the sea, and their needs were many and urgent. 


The Montreal society in its earlier years provided an opportunity for 
the Christian young men of all the local churches to combine in a great variety 
of services to sailors, soldiers and immigrants, inmates of the hospital and 
jail, as well as to the poor of the citye Local young men, including those 
employed in stores and offices, and students attending College, were provided 
a program which included educational, social and religious activities, all in 
rented quarters. The library and annual lecture series were well patronizede 
Bible classes, men's mectings, an employment bureau, a boarding house register, 
personal counsel and guidance, were early features. 


Very soon it was discovered that quarters adequate for the kind of 
activities which were needed did not exist in the city, and steps were taken 
to find a permanent home for the work. In 1873, the first Y.M.C.A. building, 
situated on Victoria Square, was opened. These quarters were rapidly out grown 
and a much larger and more adequately-equipped building was erected on Dominion 
Square and opened in 1891. From this time great progress was made in the 
development of the four-fold program - physical, educational, social and 
religious - for both young men and boys. 


Through the years the Association pioneered in a great variety of 
activities, including: boys' work, camping, evening education, Bible study, 
play and recreation, men's meetings, work in militia camps and with men on 
active service, community work, and many forms of adult education. 


In due course, the Railroad Branch in Point St. Charles, and Strath~ 
cona Hall for McGill students, were built and opened for usee Then in 1912, 
the building on Dominion Square was sold and three new fully-equipped branch 
buildings were opened on Drummond Street, in Westmount and the North end, 
Thus, sixty years after the founding of the Association, five Branch buildings 
were available to care for the needs of youth of rapidly-growing Montreale 


HISTORICAL SKETCH (cont'd) Ze 


Since that time, two World Wars have intervened, during which the 
Association rendered significant services to men and women of the Armed Forcese 
A lengthy period of serious financial depression also made many demands upon 
the Association for special services to unemployed youth as well as to others 
who were faced with greatly reduced earnings and attendant handicaps. 


Tremendous growth has taken place in the evening educational program 
since it was started in 1873. In 1926 the Sir George Williams College and 
Schools were established. In the current year 6000 different students 
enrolled. Here the working boy may complete his elementary or high school 


course, and the ambitious young man may take evening classes leading to a 
college degree. 


Last year over 10,000 different young men occupied rooms in the 
Association residences for various periods. Room accommodation elsewhere was 
recommended to hundreds of newcomers. A great variety of other services was 
provided for strangers to the city. 


The Association has persistently tried to keep pace with the growth 
of the city and now has eleven very active branches located in all parts of 
Greater Montreal; in addition it operates the Sir George Williams College and 
Schools, three permanent camps and a ski lodge. The total membership is 
over 17,000, with almost 10,000 more short-term memberships during the years 


Today the Y.M.C.A. is serving youth all over the world, in 75 countries. 
It serves all nationalities, races and religious faiths. From 1889, the Montreal 
Association has actively assisted in this extension of the movement to other 
continents. Charles S, Paterson, of this city, and others, have invested their 
lives in this productive world service, Montreal Association members and friends 
have contributed substantial sums of money towards the support of the work abroade 


The Association is a laymen's organization, It is a Christian organ- 
ization; one of its great strengths has been that it draws together like-minded 
men of all the denominations in order that the needs of youth may be adequately 
met. It discovers and trains leaders, many of whom have become active in church 
and other organizations. It cooperates with all youth organizations and other 
bodies devoted to the improvement of community life. 


The Montreal Association enters its Second Century with resources of 
equipment and trained leadership - both volunteer and secretarial - which 
enable it to make a significant contribution in meeting the current needs of 
youth in this rapidly changing world. 


STATISTICAL RECORD FOR 1951 


PERSONS 
VOLUNTEER SERVICE 
Volunteer group leaders 220 
On Boards, Committees & Councils 1,56 


Attendance at Meetings 


HEALTH AND PHYSICAL FITNESS 
Gymnasium Activities Total participation 
Swimming Classes, Individuals . " 
Athletic Events by tt 
Persons passing Beginners Swimming 5,202 
& Life Saving tests 
Teams, Leagues, Rinks and Playgrounds 


SOCIAL RECREATION 
Dramatic and Musical Events Total Attendance 
Crafts and Hobbies " 4 
Dances, Parties and Social Affairs . 
Motion Pictures, Indoors and Outdoors . 


RELIGIOUS MEETINGS 
Meetings, Study Groups, Chapel 


SUMMER CAMPS 
. Campers Camper Days 
Boys 528 13,538 
Men 570 i,,612 
Girls 105 1,421 
Women 632 5,015 
Leaders 9h 4.4500 Total 1,929 
City Day Camps (ten) 2,050 


PERSONAL COUNSELLING 
Number of Interviews of many kinds 
Persons placed in employment 513 


CLUBS AND GROUPS 
Number of Clubs, Classes and Interest Groups 851 
Meetings: Boys, Girls, Young People, 
Total Attendance 
Total enrollment in all groups, classes, 
Teams, Councils etc, 


INFORMAL EDUCATION 
Lectures, Forums, Study Groups etce 
Trips, Outings etc. 
Libraries, Book Circulation 
Use of Reading Rooms 


FORMAL EDUCATION 
Sir George Williams College - No. of Students 79359 
No. of Classes 67) No. of Student Hours 


COMMUNITY SERVICE 
No. of outside organizations using "Y" buildings 416 
No. of times 2,61) 
Estimated attendance of non-members 


ATTENDANCE 


9 4568 


649925 
82,188 
5,885 


91, 381 


5 869 
33516) 
7h. 508 
50,261 


105177 


29,086 
36,43 


595773 


325,195 
23,596 


38,931 
1130 
434130 
118,092 


1,620,170 


119,026 


Pe Se ROSS & SONS 


AUDZTS OR Sho Fee Oss 


The Young Men's Christian Association of Montreal, 
Montreal, 


We have made an examination of the attached 
Balance Sheet of The Young Men's Christian Association of 
Montreal as at December 31, 1951 and of the related Statement 
of Income and Expenditure for the. year ended that date. In 
connection therewith we made a test examination of the books 
of account and financial records of the Metropolitan Office 
and of the reports from the branches and from the Residence 
Building but we did not make a detailed audit of the trans- 
actions of the Association for the years We have received 
all the information and explanations we have required. 


The inventories of books, foodstuffs and sundry 
supplies have been certified to be correct by the officers of 
the Association. 


In our opinion, based on the examination made, 
the attached Balance Sheet and related Statement of Income 
and Expenditure correctly set forth the financial position 
of the Association as at December 31, 1951 and the results 
of its operations for the year ended on that date, according 
to the best of our information and the explanations given to 
us and as shown by the accounting records examined by use 


P. Se ROSS & SONS 


Chartered Accountants 


THE YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 


STATEMENT OF INCOME 


FOR THE YRAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1951 


le SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS COLLEGE 
Revenue from tuition fees and receipts 
from other sources 


Qe GENERAL PROGRAMME INCOME 
Receipts from recreational departments and 
other programme activities including camps 


36 SERVICE FEATURES INCOME 
Revenue from residence rooms, receipts from 
food and other service features 


he WORLD SERVICE 
Subscriptions to World Service 


$ 1,88, 7deliy 
12,92 «28 
li, 5626 60 


24493507 


108,213.00 


95235410 


De MEMBERSHIP FEES COLLECTED 
66 SUBSCRIPTION INCOME 
Contributions from corporations and individuals 190,626.85 
Te ENDOWMENT FUND INCOME 
8 MISCELLANEOUS INCOME 


Receipts from other sources not detailed above 


Excess of expenditure over income for the year 
ended December 31, 1951 transferred to Deficit 


8 glOle 83 


$1417 425.28 


D- 375749023 


G1 45591 7he51 


le 


20 


36 


le 
De 


or 


Te 


8. 


Ge 


THE YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 


STATEMENT OF EXPENDITURE | 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1951 


EDUCATIONAL $ 532,650.67 
Expenditure for the Sir George Williams College 
educational work including a proportion of the 
cost of operating the space occupied in Drummond= 
Stanley Building 


GENERAL PROGRAMME 160,144 09), 
Expenditure which cannot be directly allocated to 
divisions representing general programme of branches 
including recreational departments and camps 


SERVICE FEATURES 2295372016 
Direct expenditure for operation of residence 
rooms, food services and other service features 


WORLD SERVICES; REMITTANCES 2h 5935e7h 


GENERAL ADMINISTRATION 98192472 
Expenses of centralized accounting and auditing 
of the branches of the Association metropolitan 
programme and business administration and contrib- 
ution to National Council for general promotion of 
Y¥.M.C.A. activities throughout Canada 


BRANCH ADMINISTRATION 78553500 
Expenditure for desk service and general super- 
vision of branch activities 


BOYS! DIVISION 59 592663h 
Direct expenditure for the boys' division progranme 


OTHER DIVISIONS 201166073 
Direct expenditure for the young men's, girls', 
ladies' and senior men's division programme 


MEMBERSIIP PROMOTION 12,715 485 
Advertising of Y.M.C.A* activities and secretarial 
and clerical expense of interviewing prospective 
members, assimilating new members and following up 
renewal of old memberships 


10. PLANT 238 ,23h1036 


Rental for premises not owned, expenditures for 
maintenance, heat, light, taxes and insurance for 
buildings owned by Association and provision for 
Property Reserve 


$1,455,174 051 


THE YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 


BALANCE SHEET AS AT DECEMBER 31, 1951 


ASSETS 


Fixed Assets: 1951 
Land, Buildings and Furnishings - 


Drummond and Stanley Streets $1 y815,68h1.10 
Westmount Branch 105,660.73 
International Branch 100,542.50 
Southwestern Branch 238,893 06 
Notre Dame de Grace Branch 265 5648), 
Kamp Kanawana 70567580 
Camp Otoreke 95926651 
Camp Perrot 38,906.29 
Bourret Street and Alepin Avenue 25,931 20 


Miscellaneous 294610 


Assets held for endowment funds: 
Investment securities at cost 
(Market Value $180,170.00) 150,536.16 
Cash in Bank 20.61 


1505550077 


4,193.1) 


_Less: Amount due to general and 
special funds 


Assets held for special funds: 
Investment securities 55791620 
Accrued interest on investments 17037 
Cash in bank 687.82 
Due from endowment funds 1,000.00 


Deferred charges; 
Insurance, taxes and sundry expenses 


Current assets: 


Cash on hand and in banks 103,830.12 
Accounts receivable less reserve 

for doubtful accounts 218,728.19 
Residence rentals receivable less 

reserve for doubtful accounts 2 5037050 
Accrued interest receivable 1,094,602 
Investments at cost 33507 250 
Inventory of books, foodstuffs and 

sundry supplies 60,871 67h 


Due from endowment funds 3,193.1) 


$2 y 712,218.73 


1465363063 


79526039 


13,282.52 


393,262.51 


939272 5653078 


oe 


$2 52h gli, 092 


16,003.09 


4,167.87 


11,hh2.16 


5525734082 


$3,238, 762.86 


ooo 


THE YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 


BALANCE SHEET AS AT DECEMBER 31, 1951 


Lik Ss Pit TT ie 


1951 1950 
Capital: 
Capital account $1,988 u3h 5h 
Legacies and bequests 175,822 612 
Endowment funds = 
DeAe Budge Memorial Fund $108 ,80073 
D.A. Budge Endowment Fund 1,000.00 
Other endowment funds 28,211.67 
“30,042 10 
Add:Net profit on sales of 
investment securities 
to date 8,321.23 1h6, 363.63 
Special funds - 
Sir George Williams College 
building & scholarship funds 6,526.39 
Other 1,000.00 75526639 
2 9 310,140.00 
Less: Deficit - 
Balance December 31,1950 15,5276, 
Add: Excess of expenditure 
over income for year 
end December 31,1951 375749 023 535276087 $32,26,869081 $2,291,435 1h 
Mortgage on Alepin Ave. House 8,145.22 84354090 
Property and equipment reserves 4795321096 
Bourret Ste & Alepin Ave. houses = 
Depreciation 2, 722ell 
Operating balance to date 732092 4.82 5776099 LSh. lib «69 
Current liabilities: 
Accounts payable & accrued charges 975152052 
Sundry deposits 8,357 «3h 
Unearned Income - 
Prepaid tuition 2) 810616 
Prepaid room rents 
and camp fees 1,867.82 26,677.98 
Financial Campaign of 
November 1951 =< 
Receipts carried forward to 
period subsequent to 
December 31, 1951 16), 67392 516,861.76 48,528.13 


$3 42725653078 $3,238,762 286 


a 
an en re ne 


RE Pick: f 
} OF 
THE NOMINATING COMMITTEE 
TO THE ANNUAL MEETING OF THE 
YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 
MONDAY, APRIL 21ST, 1952 


Mr. President: 


Your Committee, having carried out the constitutional 
requirements in connection with its duties, hereby nominates the 
following active members to become Directors of the Association 
for a period of three years, ending December 31st, 195h: 


John J.F. Bancroft He Roy Crabtree T. Denton Lewis 
Henry G. Birks JR. Crawford H.M. Long 

A. Turner Bone JeHe Davey Hell, Mawhinnoy 
JP. Copland Re Clement Holden, Q.C. S.C. Norsworthy 
AH. Cowie A.E. Sargent 


Your Committee also wishes to report that at the last 
meeting of the Metropolitan Board of Directors, the following 
were elected members of the Advisory Board for a period of three 
years as follows; 


D.C. Coleman W.H. Goodwin Paul A. McFarlane 
Harold Crabtree H.J. Hannaford A.Le Paterson 
Arthur Cross R.D. Harkness RN. Watt 

Hone Charles Dunning H. Jasper Humphrey D.Ae Whittaker 
B.C. Gardner Frederick Johnson Walter P, Zeller 


Wed. Langston 


Respectfully submitted, 


Chairman 


