Vv 


Annual Report 1967 


one hundred and sixteenth 


YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 


116TH ANNUAL REPORT 
YMCA OF GREATER MONTREAL 


JUNE 2, 1967 = MAY 31, 1968 


SUMMARY 


The dilemma of young people --- their anxieties and 
frustrations, their gropings for identity and truth --- 
remained top concerns of our association during the year 
under review. 


Increased involvement with drugs, the lack of 
communication between generations and the continuing con- 
flict with the organized society helped underline the 
urgency of this work. 


While helping identify and participating in solutions 
to the problems of contemporary youth, all operating units 
of the Montreal Y also became deeply involved in activities 
for groups and individuals outside the branches. 


These outreach programs cover people of all ages, 
from all levels of society, no matter what their ethnic 
origin. 


At the same time, for the thousands of young people 
who participate in on-going branch activities, we are up- 
dating our traditional programs of self-development, 
leadership training and physical education. 


ahs * dee, 
Le a eee ® 
, tr » 9 
ik , 
F i 
, 2 Day : 
ep ys i 
in ' 
é ) a) ‘ { 
i s ¥ 


a, a een ‘ i - ant } ie . 
= bas 2oitrixna stad? <-- Siqoog gnény te anerors 


ME Gg3t baa. tsthawhd eat Sgutgoty iam scmobss 


, 
t bhel e he oae : 


are ; ahd Lal Se us aes 
foveal b ae 


W.N. HALL ELECTED PRESIDENT 


Wilfred N. Hall was elected President of the Montreal 
YMCA. He succeeded T, Denton Lewis, who remains a member 
of the Metropolitan Board. 


Mr. Lewis, in his final address as President, suggested 
that "the development of peoples' ability to get along with 
each other, and work for the common good" is one of the more 
significant tasks of the Y today. 


NEW DIRECTORS 


The following were appointed as new Directors for a 
three year term; 


V.G.° Baker, Advertising Manager, 
Domtar Pulp and Paper Limited 


DP heuer Bee, Principal, 
Sir George Williams University 


W.I.M. Turner, Jr. President, 
Power Corporation 


PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT 


Ten main goals, guiding principles for future 
development and recommendations for action were approved by 
the Metropolitan Board on January 3, 1968. 


The package, tabled as a brief by W.S. Kirkpatrick, 
Chairman of the Planning and Development Committee, was 
both far-reaching and functional, 


It was agreed that the association must become more 
flexible and selective if it is to remain a relevant 
and effective movement. 


"The YMCA must continually be in a position to adjust 
its direction as the changing social conditions in any 
community dictate," urged the brief. 


It warned, however, that "the possible and desirable 
diversity and extent of effort is practically unlimited, 
and goes far beyond the present or future means of each 
branch." 


The brief was based on the findings of 250 participants 
in a week-end Seminar, held November 11-12, 1967, in 
Mont Tremblant, to review the results of a three year in- 
depth study by the total Montreal association. 


The study paved the way for each operating unit to 
proceed with specific planning for the next five years. 


It also provided a sound basis for the 50 Montreal 
delegates selected to participate in a National YMCA 
Conference, called in June to chart a course for all 
YMCAs in Canada, 


MULTI-FACETED DRIVE WON ACCOLADES 


Support of all kinds was offered the Association in 
its drive to pin-point and provide functional answers to 
many of the more troublesome problems disrupting society 
today. 


Monseignor Paul Gregoire, Archbishop of Montreal, 
delivered this endorsement: 


"T rejoice at the excellent work accomplished by your 
Association in the development of personal values and sense 
of responsibility. We have noticed with pleasure the 
Ecumenical orientation your Association had adopted. The 
respect of persons, of their religious convictions, and of 
their SuAEUEES affinities cannot but engender harmony and 
peace. 


Dr. Wilder Penfield, world renowned neuro-surgeon, 
practical humanitarian, and President of the Vanier 
Institute of the Family, offered this encouragement: 


"More power to the Young Men's Christian Association 
of Montreal! The most urgent cause in our society today 
is to help Canadians to build a stronger, more successful 
family life. The YMCA contributes strength to this cause 
in a way that only a YMCA can," 


ENGLISH - FRENCH RELATIONSHIPS 


It was officially acknowledged, in positive terms, 
that the Montreal YMCA must increase its efforts to 
promote understanding and cooperation between different 
age, cultural and ethnic groups, especially English and 
French - speaking Canadians, 


The fast expanding field of leisure time activities 
should, it was felt, be considered an increasingly 
promising source of opportunities for cooperation between 
Quebec's two main language groups. 


It is also proposed that a consultant be retained 
to help the Y develop effective policies and practices 
in enlarging its services to the French speaking community. 


The trend towards increased bilingualism was most 
pronounced at Verdun-LaSalle branch, where virtually 
all activities were carried on in both English and French. 


Special programs in French were provided for the 
professional staffs of other branches and bilingualism 
was also encouraged among telephone receptionists and 
others meeting the public on behalf of the Y, 


LEARNING FRENCH THE FUN WAY 


A French language day-camp was inaugurated by 
International Branch in the Summer of 1967. Operated much 
like any other day camp, it was designed mainly to encourage 
children of immigrants who had mastered English, to learn 
French, 


Using the gym, the pool, arts and crafts, music, 
magazines and movies, the youngsters were motivated 
to learn a third language so they could participate 
fully in the activities of their choice. 


Unlike school, where children are often indifferent 
to, or resent having to study another language, they 
came to consider French as the key to an enjoyable and 
exciting experience. 


A similar project, staffed entirely by Counsellors 
whose native tongue is French, was offered by Westmount 
Y for children whose native language is English. 


IN THE GYM AND SWIMMING POOL 


Participation in physical fitness programs, 
especially those for businessmen and ladies, reached a 
new high during the year. Operating out of facilities 
that were leased or borrowed from schools, community 
centres and churches --- as well as from YMCA gyms and 
pools --- interest was also strengthened in activities 
to develop specific athletic skills. 


In the field of aquatics, our swim instruction and 
scuba courses were rated as on a par with the best avail- 
able anywhere. Similar approval was accorded our judo, 
handball and squash programs. 


DECISION SHARING, DETACHED WORK, COUNSELLING 
HELPING SOLVE PROBLEMS OF YOUNG PEOPLE 


Three principal approaches were taken to help young 
people ---- from pre-teenagers to individuals in their 
twenties ---- find meaningful purpose. 


1) The many young people who participate in 
regular branch activities were encouraged to 
Share fully in updating traditional Y programs 
of self-development, leadership training, and 
physical education. 


2) Efforts were increased to reach more of these 
young people who tend to shun society's institutions. 
Operating outside branches, the Y has over the 

past three years, sought out and established contact 
with thousands of alienated individuals. 


3) A start was made on the expansion of counselling 
services for both young people and adults. 
Professionals from outside will, increasingly, be 
called in on a referral basis, and a counselling 
branch of YMCA is in the planning stages. 


DETACHED WORK 


A twenty member task force was mustered for work 
with young people who normally avoid involvement with 
society, or any of its institutions. 


The force, made up of Y professionals and trained 
volunteers, was deployed from branches serving St, Laurent 
Verdun, Pointe Claire's Fairview Shopping Centre, and 
Southern portions of Westmount, NDG, and Montreal West. 


During the year the detached workers made meaningful 
contact with more than 2,000 teenagers and young adults, 
including various kinds of activists, school drop-outs, 
experimenters with drugs, products of broken homes, the 
vocationally handicapped, and many withdrawers from society, 


A referral system was set up for those in need of 
jobs, professional advice or medical and psychiatric 
assistance. 


A number of groups organized and operated regular 
dances in NDG and Westmount branches, while others set up 
and ran coffee houses and drop-in centres in other Ys, 


Seminars dealing with topics such as drugs were 
also held for both teenagers, young adults and parents. 


This relatively new field of service, pioneered by the 
Y, is part of the Association's community development 
program, 


Support for this work has been lent by a number of 
service clubs, municipalities, police departments and 
hospitals, 


YOUTH EMERGENCY SERVICES (Y.E.S.) 


The Montreal YMCA is a key participant in Youth 
Emergency Services, a cooperative temporary organization 
that was set up in May 1968, to work with youth and 
young adults in Montreal's restless downtown region. 


Ray Rouse of our Metropolitan Program and Field 
Service staff has, since its inception, been coordinator 
of the project. 


Other major participants in Y.E.S. are the Montreal 
Council of Social Agencies; Contact; the Lakeshore 
General Hospital's Department of Child and Adolescent 
Psychiatry; and interested individuals such as 
Father Burke. 


Operated with a minimum of red tape, Y.E.S. was 
formed to contact and serve the thousands of wayward 
aimless and hostile young people attracted to Montreal's 
inner-city. 


Its milieu -- street corners, coffee houses, 
restaurants, cooperative residences, rented rooms, 
police stations, court houses. 


Working with runaways from home, or the law, users 
of drugs, deviates, gangs, individuals in need of jobs, 
medical or psychiatric attention, youth in search of 
adventure, or passing through town - Y.E.S. filled an 
urgent need in a simple and personalized way. 


It set up employment, counselling, and informal 
education services, obtained medical attention for those 
who needed it, and acted as a clearing house for in- 
formation about services provided by other community 
organizations. 


Funds to operate this project were generously pro- 
vided by the McConnell Foundation. 


CONTINUING EDUCATION 


Emphasis of continuing education programs of most 
branches was again on activities which tap and develop 
individual capacities to enjoy more things more fully. 


While not a panacea, such programs can help ease 
a number of social ills and indicate the way to solutions 
for many others. 


In courses involving exchanges of ideas, the in- 
structors function more like discussion leaders than 
teachers. Each participant is encourated to exercise 
initiative and share experiences for his or her own 
further development and that of the others in the group. 


The range of courses offered included: 


Skills for Modern Living; such as creative writing, 
effective public speaking, Quebec Law, interior 
decorating, dressmaking, handicrafts. 


World Awareness; architecture, modern religions. 


Modern Languages; English, French, German, Spanish 
and Russian communication. 


Social Recreational Skills; photography, dancing. 


Fine Arts; drawing, painting, music appreciation. 
MILE END PROJECT 


Headed by Kerry Johnston of International Branch, 
a multi-pronged attack on poverty and ignorance was 
launched in one of the more neglected districts of 
Greater Montreal. 


Target area ----- Mile End West ----- is bounded 
by St. Lawrence Boulevard on the East, Pine Avenue on 
the South, Hutchison Street on the West, and the CPR 
tracks on the North. 


Overcrowded and rundown, it has long been a gathering 
place for new immigrants who, fearful of authority, and 
unaware of their rights, huddle in self-created ghettos. 


General purpose of the Y in Mile End West is to make 
the residents aware of their rights and responsibilities and, 
ultimately, participate in breaking down the barriers 
separating them from the main community. Emphasis is on 
the development of self-reliance and initiative. 


Prompted by the Y team, and drawing on it for counsel, 
the community has started identifying its own needs and 
preparing for positive action. 


ESSENTIALS OF FIRST CLASS CITIZENSHIP 


International Branch helped prepare more than 1,800 
individuals - most of them recent immigrants with little 
formal schooling - to hurdle one of the major obstacles 
£6 first class citizenship. 


Their achievement - learning English, or French as 
participants in the Branch's language program - improved 
their earning capabilities, enabled them to continue their 
education and paved the way to better understanding of 
their adopted homeland. 


Few of those who completed International Y language 
courses during the year, had spent more than six years 
in school in their native lands. 


Most of them were heads of families who attended 
classes and studied after days of hard labor. Daytime 
courses were introduced for those working the night or 
evening shifts. 


NORTHMOUNT GAINED IN SEVERAL AREAS 


Support for both in-branch and outreach activities 
of Northmount Y was increased substantially. The total 
program involved civic administrators, community associations, 
citizens’ groups, service clubs and a growing number of 
individual parents. 


In Town of Mount Royal, for example, a number of 
mothers offered to serve as voluntary leaders after 
participating in discussion groups designed to help them gain 
a deeper insight into their roles in a fast-changing world. 


There was also a sharp upsurge in the popularity of 
Northmount's aquatics program. Operated out of St. Laurent 
College's pool, it was highlighted by unprecedented interest 
in Learn-to-Swim for adults. 


New tatami (judo mats) were installed in the branch's 
dogo (instruction and work-out centre). These enabled it 
to develop what is considered one of the best judo programs 
in Greater Montreal. 


In conjunction with Recreation for the Handicapped 
Inc., the branch's Women's Council inaugurated a program 
for handicapped persons in the St. Laurent area. 


WEST ISLAND GROWS 


West Island Y expanded its range of recreational and 
physical fitness activities. At the same time, more 
emphasis was placed on: 


1) programs that strengthen family relations, 
2) providing guidance and counsel to teenagers, 
3) the encouragement and training of new leaders. 


Some 700 members participated in Ile Perrot programs, 
with swimming and hockey the most popular activities. 


Over 300 teenagers from Hudson, Como and Hudson 
Heights participated in a Saturday mornings recreation 
program. 


A drop-in centre for young people was established 
in Beaurepaire in cooperation with two churches in that 
community. 


Husbands and wives groups were organized to discuss 
youth and related concerns and the branch was asked to help 
plan a Youth and Community Centre. 


Emphasis in the Northshore area was on the development 
of volunteer leaders. YMCA growth here is expected to be 
rapid during the current year, with the community itself 
to provide much of the impetus. 


LACHINE-DORVAL AND CHATEAUGUAY 


Lachine-Dorval Y devoted more time than ever before 
to re-appraising its position and updating its programs. 
Based on its studies, the branch has started a campaign to 
promote fuller cooperation between the different associations 
in its constituencies. Objective of this endeavour is to 
avoid duplication of effort and facilities, and maximize 
their effectiveness. 


10. 


A vocational guidance program for high school students 
was undertaken in cooperation with the Lachine Kiwanis. The 
aquatics program was expanded, badminton was introduced and 
courses in judo were offered. 


Efforts were also increased to reach French-speaking 
members of the communities in their own language, and 
develop a YMCA facility in Chateauguay. 


Working out of a $10.00 a month basement office, a 
representative group of Chateauguay residents is implementing 
plans to establish a truly vital association. A growing 
number of school representatives, clergymen, civic adminis- 
trators and service clubs are supporting the movement. 


ACCENT ON YOUTH, BUT....... 


Verdun-LaSalle Branch continued to emphasize programs 
for teenagers, but a number of new activities were developed 
for pre-schoolers, adults and businessmen, 


Efforts were increased to involve French-speaking 
members of the community in the work of the branch. Plans 
are also being formed to develop programs for elderly 
people. A leadership training program was provided for all 
English and French club advisors and, in conjunction with 
Sir George Williams University, a group guidance and 
counselling project was carried on for teenagers. 


Various other types of cooperative projects were 
undertaken with different community associations and in- 
stitutions. 


These include: 


--- A physical fitness program and swimming courses for 
businessmen in the LaSalle Chamber of Commerce. 


--- A detached work program in the City of Verdun. 
--- A program to integrate patients in the Douglas Hospital 
in a number of regular branch activities. 
NDG TO STRENGTHEN FAMILIES 
The Montreal YMCA, in its Planning and Development 
Report, identified "program activities which strengthen the 


role of the family in the healthy development of its 
members" as a major priority. 


be 


To help fill this need, NDG branch will soon become a 
Family Program and Family Life Education Centre. Its goals 
are: 


1) To foster family unity through participation to- 
gether in a variety of activities; 2) to develop friendships 
and enjoy activities with other families; 3) to develop 
skills and increase physical fitness and health; 4) to 
strengthen family communication and interpersonal relation- 
ships. 


Emphasis of programming will be on: 


1) A high degree of personalization, with a consistent 
and active staff personally relating to every person in 
the program, and developing a friendly climate; 2) earning 
commitment to the program by fully involving members in 
the planning and execution of activities; 3) variety, 
excitement, fun and allowances for spontaneity; 4) flexi- 
bility, with a variety of methods available to fulfill 
members' interests in ways of enriching family relationships. 


CROSS THE WORLD RUN 


Participants in Downtown Y's Physical Education Programs 
set out to promote fitness and international friendship with 
a Cross-the-World Run. 


The 40,000 mile exercise was started by Governor 
General Roland Michener, with the entire distance to be 
logged in the Y gym before the end of 1968. 


Representatives of a number of foreign governments 
have already participated in special 'national' days held 
in the Y gym, exchanging tokens of friendship and esteem 
with the Y runners. 


During the year under review, participants in physical 
fitness, sports and aquatics programs made a total of 
197,000 visits to the branch's gym, squash and handball 
courts, swimming pool and workout rooms. 


Some 36% of the total membership of the Downtown 
Branch is now French-speaking. 


LZ. 


WESTMOUNT Y 


Westmount Y became deeply involved in the affairs of 
the community outside the branch. In the branch, partici- 
pation in Hi-Y programs and physical education activities 
were well ahead of the preceding year. 


The swimming team was revived and a ski fitness 
program, offered for the first time to both men and women, 
was unable to accommodate all those who wanted to partici- 
pate, 


The summer day camp also operated at capacity. For 
the benefit of working mothers, its age minimum was lowered 
to six and full advantage was taken of Expo to help prepare 
all youngsters for the history, geography and science they 
should be studying during the next school term. This 
phase of the program was developed cooperatively with local 
schools. 


Attendance was also up in Saturday gym and swims. 
Physical activities were followed by an educational movie 
in the branch, or a visit to a matinee performance in a 
theatre or the planetarium. 


Drug seminars were held for adults, while dance groups 
and coffee houses were set up in the branch by teenagers 
from the lower areas of Westmount and NDG. 


FINANCIAL CAMPAIGN 


Outstanding leadership and a dedicated drive by can- 
vassers pushed our 1968 financial campaign over the top. 
Objective was $340,000. including $20,000 for special 
projects. With a small number of cards still outstanding, 
a total of more than $341,000 has now been reported, more 
than ever before realized by a Montreal YMCA annual drive 
for funds. 


John W. McGiffin served a second consecutive term as 
General Chairman, with Lorne G. Main as Vice-President. 
E, Paul Zimmerman and Paul E. Coté were Co-Chairmen of 
the Special Names Division. 


‘ee 


Division Chairmen were: 


W. Bruce Kippen, Downtown 

T.J. Piper, Northwestern 

W.A. Devereaux, Northmount 
Basil Burgess, International 
Fred W. Davidson, West Island 
R.O. Huntington, Westmount 
Bowes Dempsey, Lachine-Dorval 
Guy Barreyre, Chateauguay 
Keith Hamilton, Verdun LaSalle 


STANLEY RESIDENCE 


The eighth floor of the Stanley Street Residence 
Building was renovated as part of an annual program started 
in, S901, 


Spurred by demand for accommodation during Expo, 
bookings for the year reached an all time high. But a 
sharp post-expo decline, which stretched well into the 
first half of calendar 1968, has caused serious concern, 


The residence contributes significantly to Y revenues, 
and any prolonged curtailment in occupancy could force 
cutbacks in other areas. Ways of speeding recovery are 
being explored. 


PROPERTY SALE 


The Y's Christieville Ski property, unused for a number 
of years, was sold, with proceeds added to the Association's 
general fund. 


ENDOWMENTS 


Major endowments during the course of the year included 
the balance of $1,878. from the estate of the late 
David G. McConnell, and income of $1,080. from the estate 
of the late Allan J. Ross, 


14, 


CAMPING 


Kamp Kanawana helped mark its 74th year of operation 
by providing over 3,000 meals and 2,170 bed nights of 
accommodation for 664 out-of-town visitors to Expo. 


But while Expo increased the volume of 'special' 
guests to a record high, registration of regular campers, 
at 421, and the total of camper weeks, at 1,098, were down 
from 488 and 1,323 in 1966. 


Some 32% of those who spent their vacation at Kanawana 
were Y members. Almost 40% had spent one or more two-week 
periods there during previous summers. 


LES VOYAGEURS DE LA VERANDRYE 


41 boys, from 13 to 16 years of age spent a total of 
111 camper weeks canoeing in Northern Quebec. They came 
from Greater Montreal, Northern Quebec, Ontario, New 
Brunswick, Massachusetts, California and Czechoslovakia to 
participate in the seven-week experience. 


CO-ED CAMPING 


Plans to accommodate girls, aged 9-11, at Kamp 
Kanawana were announced several months before the start of 
the 1968 summer season. 


"It is natural for boys and girls to grow up together," 
commented A, Ross Seaman, Director of Camping. ''In pro- 
viding them with opportunities to do so, we help prepare 
them for adolescence." 


RE-TRACING FUR TRADE ROUTES 


Seven 14 - 15 year old boys and two counsellors from 
Kamp Kanawana re-traced 150 miles of Canada's East - West 
fur trade routes in canoes, 


En route, the members of the group logged their 
observations of wild life, water currents, camping facili- 
ties, weather conditions, and land structure. 


This data, together with similar information by other 
camps, is being assembled into a Guide Book for the 
Canadian Camping Association. 


iS. 


CAMP OTOREKE 


Camp Otoreke became a department of Downtown Branch. 
It continued to operate a weekend Ski Lodge for young 
adults and a vacation centre during the summer. 


CAMP PERROT 


To help accommodate Expo visitors, a trailer park was 
built on previously undeveloped sections of the Camp Perrot 
property. The development included a new swimming pool 
which will be available to participants in the family 
camping program there. 


CENTENNIAL-EXPO IN RETROSPECT 


More than 142,750 bed-nights of accommodation were pro- 
vided for almost 27,000 different persons by Montreal YMCA 
Branches and Camps during the 183 day run of Expo '67. The 
food services department and the camps served a total of 
just under 228,600 meals. 


Approximately 70,000 specially designed Montreal Y 
Centennial/Expo folders were distributed all over the 
world and an information centre, set up in Downtown Branch, 
each day answered between 300-500 requests for information, 


During the peak periods, the information desk also 
channelled visitors to emergency accommodation in gyms and 
branch meeting rooms. 


WORLD SERVICE 


World Service programs continued to concentrate on 
activities to help people in emerging nations achieve their 
objectives. Emphasis remained on development from within, 
Priorities and objectives in overseas countries are 
determined and developed in cooperation with local people 
from all levels of society. 


In Mackenzie, Guyana, for example, the most urgent 
problems have been identified as education, health and 
Sanitation, housing. Roger Wilson of our professional 
staff has been posted there since last November, 


16, 


FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM 


A total of 44 students - 12 females and 32 males - 
were involved during the past year in our Fellowship Training 
Program at Sir George Williams University. Ten of them com- 
pleted the four year course in the spring. 


Except for two girls -- one joined CUSO and the other 
became a school teacher -- all the graduates joined the 
professional staffs of various YMCAs in Canada. Three are 
now serving in Montreal area YMCAs. 


The program is designed for young people who are 
planning careers with the YMCA. Emphasis of the curriculum 
is on the applied social sciences. 


Part-time employment is found for students at Y 
branches, giving them opportunities to exercise and test 
what they learn in the classroom. 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY AND SCHOOLS 


Sir George Williams University assumed virtually com- 
plete responsibility for its financial and administrative 
affairs during the year. The final decision on the 
separation of assets of the two corporations is expected 
to be completed in the near future. 


The decision to modify the relationship between the 
Montreal YMCA and SGWU was prompted by the growth in size 
and complexity of the latter. Their close ties in most 
other areas will, however, be retained and strengthened. 


MONTREAL YMCA MEMBERSHIP STATISTICAL SUMMARY 


BRANCH UNDER 18 YRS, 
Downtown 242 
International 376 
Lachine-Dorval 436 
Northmount 401 
N.D.G. 570 
Verdun LaSalle 435 
West Island 4,084 
Westmount 399 
6,943 


3,595 


304 


516 
41 


a So25 


Pre ih NL 


18-29 YRS, OVER 30 


2,349 
247 
49 

6 


154 
1,128 
435 


4,868 


Li. 


MEMBER- 


TOTAL SHIP 


6,186 

. Ease 
526 
416 
1,446 
663 
5,820 
1,138 
17,334% 


*The total does not include some 2,500 young people involved 


in outreach activities. 


Total different members involved in program during the 


year 33,259, 


CAMPS 
Campers Camper Days 

Boys 451 8,466 

Men 232 924 

Women 196 742 


Total camper enrollment 


Total camper days 


City camps and fun clubs - 7 


879 


1,606 


ENROLLMENT ATTENDANCE 


10,132 


15,423 


18. 


PERSONAL SERVICES 
Counselling and Interviews 
Employment Placements 
Residence Bookings 


Food Services 


FORMAL EDUCATION 

Sir George Williams University and Schools 
Number of classes 

COMMUNITY SERVICE 

Number of outside organizations using 


Y £2CUrTeLes 


GROSS ATTENDANCE 


18,409 
1,001 
172,653 


421,363 


23,037 


1,691 


466 


1,299,610 


19. 


PROGRAM AND SERVICES STATISTICS 


VOLUNTEER SERVICE ENROLLMENT ATTENDANCE 
Group Leaders | Ag SF 
On Boards, Committees and Councils igre te) 5,839 


HEALTH AND PHYSICAL FITNESS 


Gymnasium Activities 5,356 99,055 
Swimming Classes Sip hid 42,569 
Swimming Tests and Lessons 11,798 
Teams, Leagues, Rinks and Playfields 576 6,069 
Number of individuals taught to swim 5550 
Athletic Events S027 


GROUPS AND CLUBS - 2,269 


Purpose and fellowship clubs 
Interest groups and classes 2, 957 349,954 


INFORMAL EDUCATION 


Crafts and Hobbies 1,529 6,537 
Lectures, Forums, and Study Groups 56,960 
Motion Pictures and Film Clubs 5,487 
Libraries, Book Circulation 7,432 


RELIGIOUS EDUCATION 

Meetings, Study Groups, Chapel 4,337 
SOCIAL RECREATION 

Dances, Parties and Social Affairs 62,378 


Dramatics and Musical Events ay hee 
Trips, Outings, etc. 5,429 


20. 


PERSONNEL 
NEW APPOINTMENTS _ 
DOWNTOWN BRANCH 
W. Bliss - Assistant Physical Director 
L. Laliberte - Director of Continuing Education 
E. Marquardsen - Assistant Physical Director 
K, McAuslan - Assistant Physical Director 
A. Wright * Physitas Director 
INTERNATIONAL BRANCH 
A. Holmes - Adult Program Director 
NORTHMOUNT BRANCH 
Bp Fox - Assistant Secretary 
A. Thurber - Assistant Secretary 


NOTRE DAME DE GRACE BRANCH 

R. Thorpe - Hi-Y Extension Secretary 
WEST ISLAND BRANCH 

G. Anderson - Assistant Secretary 
METROPOLITAN OFFICES 


L,J. Robitaille - Manager Services Department 


TRANSFERS 


D.R. Bannerman, Executive Secretary, West Island Branch 
to Associate Executive Secretary Metropolitan Office. 

P, Macdonald, Assistant Secretary, West Island Branch 
to Executive Secretary, West Island Branch. 

J. Turner, Youth Secretary, International Branch to 
Assistant Secretary, Lachine-Dorval Branch; to 
Executive Secretary, Lachine-Dorval Branch. 

R. Patten, Assistant Secretary, Northmount Branch to 
Executive Secretary, Northmount Branch. 

R. Rouse, Executive Secretary, Northmount Branch to 
Program and Field Services Secretary, Metropolitan 
Offices. 


obi 


RESIGNATIONS 


Clark, Assistant Physical Director, Downtown Branch. 
Sherry, Assistant Physical Director, Downtown Branch. 
Turley, Assistant Program Secretary, Downtown Branch. 
Augustine, Assistant Physical Director, Downtown Branch. 
Rae, Hi-Y Extension Secretary, Notre Dame de Grace Branch. 
Forth, Assistant Secretary, Lachine-Dorval Branch 
Sallery, Adult Program Director, Downtown Branch. 

Kisby, Physical Director, Downtown Branch, 

Skaling, Executive Secretary, Lachine-Dorval Branch. 
Minielly, Adult Program Secretary, International Branch. 
Horan, Creative Arts Director, Downtown Branch. 


SSAA DAHASAQAAS 


RETIREMENT 

A.W. Kemball , 
DECEASED 

J.A.C. Hastings 


Jim Hastings, Business Secretary, died on September 8, 1967, 
after a prolonged illness which he faced with remarkable 
courage and fortitude. 


Jim entered YMCA service in Schreiver, Ontario, in 1925, 

and two years later moved to Capreol, Ontario. In 1929 

he became a Fellowship Secretary in Montreal. While 
pursuing studies at McGill University he was related to 

the Mount Royal Avenue 'now closed' and Central 'downtown!' 
branches, Following graduation he was desk secretary in 
Central Branch until joining the Metropolitan staff in 1934, 
For 33 years he rendered significant service in several 
areas of responsibility as an indispensable member of the 
Metropolitan staff team. 


Jim was a dedicated YMCA Secretary, a devoted churchman, 

a christian gentleman. He was held in the highest regard 

by all who knew him and the image of the YMCA over the years 
has been enhanced time and again by his sympathetic en- 
counters with hundreds of people. His record of selfless 
service and deep understanding of the YMCA and the 
secretary's role in it set a standard which few can ever 
hope to surpass. 


ie & 


DURING THE YEAR LOSS BY DEATH OF FRIENDS OF THE 


ASSOCIATION IS RECORDED WITH REGRET 


E.J. Brunning 
A.H, Campbell 
BE. Gate, 0.6. 
A.S. Dawes 

De. Lim. Breaux 
Hy H.o Field 

A.F, Fraser 

C. Gavsie 

F, Johnson 
A.E.G. Marshall 
G.S. Moffitt 


Mrs. B.M. Munderloh 


ise ae ae SF ses Fs AO 
Ora ewes OA Ft is. 6 


Newcomb 
Norman 
J.J.M. Pangman 
Perry 
Robillard 
Ronalds 
Ross 
Scharf 
Stevenson 
Strong 

Van Patter 
Weldon 


Vu bs 


OFFICERS 

H, Roy Crabtree 

W.N. Hall 

W.S, Kirkpatrick 

J.D. Houlding 

R.A. Ixwia 

A.Ls Pairtey,. str, 

W.C. Corbett 

F.G. Hubbard 

R.G., Rogers 
DIRECTORS 

J.C. Annesley 

V.G. Baker 

H. Bennett 

J, Breckenridge 

T.H. Burdon 

W. Bush 


C.F, Garsiey 
W.N. Clelland 
C.L. Copland 
J.R. Crawford 
P, Delagrave 
J. DCPYesst 
F.F, Pulton 


ADVISORY BOARD 


Atkinson 
wf, Banerort 
Birks 
Bone 
Bourke 
Bradshaw 
Breen 
Campbell 
. Chipman 
ms Clegg 
Dobson 
Ferguson 


Fuller 
Gardner 


* 
DBUNANnMrSSannaraiasy 
OQFesOTAtTSsS=Hoos 


*Deceased 


Foster, “U'.C, 


METROPOLITAN OFFICERS 


AND BOARD MEMBERS 


Dy Getatal: 

Bi. wham ton 
GAs. “Hart 

L. Hebert 
ARs) Hicks 
R.H. Hoppe 

A. Kabbash 
J.G. Kendrick 
TeD. -Gewus 


J.W. McGiffin 
W.D. Macdonald 
R.F. Murray 
E,C.V. Norsworthy 


G.B. Gordon 

H.J, Hannaford 
RE. Heartz 

G,M. Hobard 

G.R. Hodgson 

RC, Boteen, Q.C. 
Lite. Goro, S.C. Holland 
A.C. Jenson 

F, Johnson 

R.R. Johnson 

HoH. tank 

E.A. Leslie 

J.R. Logan 

A.W. Mason 

H. Mawhinney 


rae 


Honourary President 
President 

lst Vice-President 
2nd Vice-President 
3rd Vice-President 
Honourary Secretary 
Honourary Treasurer 
General Secretary 


Asst. General Secretary 


H. Oxiey 

.B. Peterson 

Pim 

-C. Rae 

.D. Robb 
Robillard 

.G. Steele 

diehiee 

oe  LOy Lor 

lM. Ternet, Jr. 
.L. Walker 
~L.oWal ker 

C. Wallace 

.W. Webster 


ANDUYUNSZHNnNOSDODW: 


McConnell 
McKeown 
McLagan 

. McMaster, Q.C. 
McMurtry 
Phelan 
Powell 
Roberts 
Ross 
Smith 
Stavert 
Tombs 

Walls 
Walford 
Wood 


MenonaTmrwannodan 
QO mw MaAHSMAOAAOO 


24, 


BRANCHES CHAIRMEN EXECUTIVE SECRETARY 
Downtown H. Bennett V. Hryhorchuk 
International Alex Kabbash G. Gray 
Lachine-Dorval R.F. Murray R. Skaling 
Northmount G, Pim R. Rouse 

Notre Dame de Grace T.H. Burdon J.M. Singleton 
Verdun LaSalle W. Bush W. Russell 

West Island as. 6. Steere D.R. Bannerman 
Westmount W.D. Macdonald R. McKelvie 

Kamp Kanawana J. Breckenridge A. Ross Seaman 


CHAIRMEN OF METROPOLITAN STANDING COMMITTEES 


Executive W.S. Kirkpatrick 

Finance and Property A.R. Hicks 

Investment W.C. Corbett 

Endowment J.R. Crawford 

Public Relations V..Baker 

Building I.R. Tait 

World Service W.N. Clelland 

Salary R.A. Irwin 

Personnel R.A. Irwin 

Boys Camp J. Breckenridge 

Program K.H. Oxley 

Planning and Development W.S. Kirkpatrick 

SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY AND SCHOOLS BOARD OF GOVERNORS 

F.F. Fulton Chairman and Chancellor 

C.F. Carsley Vice-Chairman 

S.C. Holland Vice-Chairman 

Re. Rae Principe: ata’ vice~ 
Chancellor 

W.G. Attridge M. Lewaet 

A. Bronfman T.D. Lewis 

Wo Corbett P.M. McEntyre 

L. Cote F.W. McIntosh 

CA. Dutt G.W. Millar 

F.N. Dundas C.B, Neapole 

JsB. FRGSSt R.D. Perry 

Pe Bie Hanke J.R, Petrie 

W.N. Hall A ps Leda 

E.L. Hamilton J,W. Teast 

J.R. Hannan H. Valle 

G.A. Hart L.P. Webster 

F.G. Hubbard G.L. Wood 

PF, Kerrigan E.P. Zimmerman 


