yey 
YMCA 


O F GREAT ER 


MONTREAL 


196) 

113TH ANNUAL REPORT 

OF THE 

YMCA OF GREATER MONTREAL 
JUNE I, 196k = MAY 31, 1965 


"GRAPPLING WITH GROWTH" 


During the period under review, the Association has grappled 
with growth, responded fo change and redirected ifs energies 
in significant ways. 


This report will describe some of the ways in which the 
Association has sought to fulfill its purpose in a dynamic 
and growing community. The challenges of a new age will 
continue fo confront us in fhe days ahead. 


The Board of Directors takes pleasure in submitting to mem- 
bers and friends this report on the work of the Association 
as a whole. Detailed reports of al! Branches and Sir 
George Williams University and Schools are submitted at 
their respective Annual Meetings and included in their 
records. 


The value of the work of the Association cannot be accura- 
tely assessed in terms of the volume and diversity of ifs 
programs, but is defermined in fhe increased capacity of 
people to cope with the demands and perplexities of con- 
temporary life. 


METROPOLITAN OFFICES 
Ihjit DRUMMOND STREET 


Downtown Branch 
ih! Drummond Street 
Montreal 25, Quebec 


International Branch 
5550 Park Avenue 
Montreal 8, Quebec 


Lachine-Dorval Branch 
3955 Provost Street 
Lachine, Quebec 


Lakeshore Branch 
170 St. Louis Avenue 
Pointe Claire, Quebec 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY 


135 DRUMMOND STREET 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS SCHOOLS 


135 ORUMMOND STREET 


Evening High Schoo! 
Business Schoo! 


THE 


YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION 


OF 


MONTREAL 


Northmount Branch 
1455 Rochon Street 
Montreal 9, Quebec 


Notre Dame de Grace Branch 
4335 Hampton Avenue 
Montreal 28, Quebec 


Verdune=LaSalle Branch 
7105 LaSaile Bivd., 
Verdun 19, Quebec. 


Westmount Branch 
4585 Sherbrooke Street, West 
Westmount 6, Quebec 


School of Art 
School of Retailing 


Elementary School] 


CAMPS 


Kamp Kanawana 
St. Sauveur, Quebec 


Voyageurs de La Verendrye 
La Verendrye Park, Quebec 


Camp Otoreke 
St. Adolphe de Howard, Quebec 


YMCA Ski Lodge 


Camp Otoreke, 
St. Adolphe de toaere, Quebec, 


es 


CONTENTS PAGE 


FORWARD | 

HIGHLIGHTS '6h ye 
MEMBERSHIP 6 

PROGRAM '6h 7 

LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT 10 

SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY AND SCHOOLS 1% 

CAMPS 18a 
WORLD SERVICE 19 
FINANCE AND PROPERTY 22 

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT 25 

PUBLIC RELATIONS 26 

PERSONNEL 27 
OBITUARIES 


HIGHLIGHTS '6 


MEMBER SH IP 


Increased by 10% with an even greater increase in total 
attendance and number of differenf persons served. 


LEADERSHIP 


Significant steps were taken fo develop the human resources 
needed by the YMCA and ofher community groups through some 
75 leadership development projects. 


PROGRAM 


Greater scope and diversity as new programs were added, many 
traditiona! programs revised, and pilot projects introduced 
to test areas of future development, 


FINANCE 


Heavy involvement of our leadership and volunteers in the 
major Sir George Williams University campaign and regular 
YMCA annual campaign. Introduction of new ideas in regular 
campaign organization results in substantial gains towards 
meeting our !965 campaign target. 


FUTURE PLANNING 


Creation of a Planning and Development Committee to keep 
YMCA alert to the rapid developments of modern life. 


HIGHLIGHTS '6 cont'd 


COMMUNITY SERVICE 


Increasing number of cooperative projects with other agen- 
cies and community groups and extension into new areas of 
the larger community. 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY AND SCHOOLS 


Heavy demand for educational opportunities results in record 
enrollment. Capital campaign nears target as Henry F. Hall 
Building takes shape for 1986 opening. Parent Report stimu-= 
lates careful study of future development. 


CONT!INUING EDUCATION 


Pace of modern life creates new demands for formal and in- 
formal educational program throughout entire YMCA community. 


PUBLIC RELATIONS 


Steps taken fo improve both internal and external communica- 
tions. 


JOINT EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 


Established to coordinate property management and accounting 
services of total Association complex. 


WORLD SERVICE 


75th Anniversary of service to developing nations sees pro= 
gram reaching 98,000,000 persons, through 12,000 "y" cen- 
ters in 83 countries. 


on 


HIGHLIGHTS '6h cont! 


DR. PAUL LIMBERT LECTUR 


Former Genera! Secretary of the World's Alliance of YMCAs 

and author of “New Perspectives for the YMCA" outlined fhe 
future directions of the Association as a global movement 

in his Annual Founders Day Lecture. 


MEMBERSH] 


The number of different’ persons active in our membership at 
any one time was 36,500, an increase of 3,700 or 10% over 
the previous year. However, it is significant that the 
total number of different members during the year reached 
50,000, which represents an increase of about 20%. This 
latter figure is probably a more accurate measure of the 
growth of the Association and of the increased volume of 
the Y's service within the total community. if also re- 
flects the results of greater program flexibility and the 
increasing number of short-term and highly specialized pro- 
grams which have been introduced in recent months. Total 
attendance during the year approached 10,000,000, which 
represents an average daily attendance of over 40,000 per-= 
sonse The membership clearly represents the multitude of 
ethnic,.cultura! and religious groups which are found in 
the rich tapestry of this great cosmopolitan area. 


One-third of our members are women and girls, two-thirds 
are under age 2h. Those considering the French language as 
their mother tongue now represent a bout 15% of the total 
membership. 


Membership by operating units is as follows: 


d 


E 


P 


MEMBERSHIP cont'd 


Different meme 


Membership by Branches Dec. 196 bers during 
i +) La 
Downtown 7,385 13,211 
Lakeshore 2,632 936 
International qo 2,97 
Notre Dame de Grace oe! 2,99 
Nor thmount 1,70 LA 
Lachine=-Dorval 91 1,52 
Westmount 989 1,616 
Verdun-LaSal le 377 961 
Sir George Williams University 
and Sir George Williams Schools 19,364 20,595 
36,176 50,545 


PROGRAM 196) 


Some 60,000 different persons from every walk of life took 
part in the wide range of programs generated by the Associa- 
tion during the past year. Total attendance reached ten 
million = an average of over 40,000 each day. 


An indication of the volume of total Association program can 
be found in the following statistical summary: 


Volunteer Leadership 
~ 4,259 persons served as group leaders and members 


of Boards, committees and councils. 


- 75 leadership development projects were conducted 
during the year. 


Clubs and Groups 


- 2,751 units of program were organized. 


PROGRAM 196 cont'd 


Health and Physical Education 


- §,89) enrolled in swim programs 

1,395 learned to swim 

h,094% passed other swimming tests 

- 7,698 enrolled in gym classes, teams, etc. 


Education 


- 198 informal education courses in Branches 


- 1,078 university, high school and elementary school 
courses 

- 19,363 students enrolled at Sir George Williams 
University and Schools 

- 1,167 students in Internationa! Branch language 
courses 


- 2,500 enrolled in informal courses 
- Over 5,000,000 student hours involved in foftal 
educational program. 


Camping 


- 585 boys enrolted in Kamp Kanawana and 
Les Voyageurs 
- 1,955 boys and giris in eight cify day camps 
- 1,054 young adults attended Camp Otoreke and 
the Ski Lodge. 


Counselling and Guidance 


- 88,81! interviews 
~ 972 job placements 


Residence 
- 170,565 bed nights accupancy 
Clubs 


- 153 purpose clubs (Gra-Y, Hi-Y, Y's Men's, etc.) 


Community Service 


- 1,180 outside group meetings and events. 


PROGRAM 196 cont'd 


Program Innovation 


Every operating unit within the Association introduced pilot 
projects and new programs during the year. The following 
represent some of these€o 


Community Leadership Deve lopment Seminar 


This project was designed for people in the Lachine-Dorva| 
area who were already giving leadership in various community 
groups. h9 leaders representing 29 community organizations 
took part ina five week series of workshops focussing on 
leadership skills, group problem solving and decision= 
making, communication and organizational change. The Lake- 
shore Kiwanis Club assisted financially in this project. 


Education on Wheels 


"Taking the teacher to the student" was the idea behind the 
extension of the language courses of the International 

Branch into the premises of several large local companies. 
This enabled the teachers to adapt their courses to the work 
situation, and at the same time, met a need for more class= 
room space. Some 400 students were enrolled in this program. 


Otoreke Development Project 


hO young adults took part in a four day retreat to plan for 
the future development of Camp Otoreke. Their suggestions 
and agreements formed the basis of several important 
changes in the camp's operation and provided a volunteer 
corps of campers to share in the camp's leadership this 
year. 


A-Kotery Club Leadership Development Project 


8 delegates from 20 community agencies, ranging from |5- 
2l years of age took part in a week-end leadership seminar 
at the Downtown YMCA. Its goal was to assist young people 
already serving as volunteer leaders to further develop 
their leadership skills and insights. 


PROGRAM 196) cont'd 


Northmount Leadership Workshop 


Some O leaders including Board, committee and council! mem- 
bers and representing both youth and adults, spent a week- 
end at Far Hills. Their purpose was to share their ideas, 
concerns and hopes for the Northmount Branch during fhe 
coming year. 


Some Other Newer Programs Were: 


Pincourft Teen Center - an adventure wifh youth in developing 
recreation program for teens. 


First Aid for Failing Students - a project of the Notre Dame 
de Grace YMCA, 


Fitness After Forty - A scientific program of exercise for 
middle aged businessmen = Downtown YMCA, 


French Language Programs = Severa! programs were conducted 
in the French language in the Lakeshore and Verdun areas. 


These programs represenf the growing edge of YMCA program 
as the Association continues to pioneer fo meet changing 
needs in contemporary terms. 


LEADERSH!IP DEVELOPMENT 


There is no doubt that one of the major cha! lenges facing 
the Montreal! YMCA is that of developing the human resources 
needed, not only by its own expanding program, but in fhe 
total community. The past year has been active and pro- 
ductive in this regard, and more than 75 projects have pro- 
vided intensive leadership training opportunities for some 
3,000 persons during the year. 


LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT cont'd 


The program of the Association provides countless opportuni- 
ties for its members to acquire and practise leadership 
skills and to assume increasing responsibilities in many 


phases of their lives. Indeed, the scope and quality of the 
Y's program would be impossible without the democratic 
sharing of responsibility and principle of voluntary leader- 


ship which have characterized the YMCA's growth as a world-= 
wide movement. 


Volunteer Leaders 


Week=end training experiences have been designed and carried 
out for all levels of leadership from Junior Counsellors to 
Branch Chairmen, These have included skill training work- 
shops, sensitivity laboratories, and a wide range of pro- 
grams carefully designed to meet the needs of leaders repre-= 
senting widely different kinds of program activity. 


Leadership deve lopment in recent years is far more than an 
academic exercise. Training programs provide a rich per- 
sonal experience in a climate which encourages experimenta- 
tion on the part of the leader with various ways in which 
he can improve his effectiveness as a person and his help- 
fulness to others. 


Staff Development 


One of the primary functions of the YMCA secretary is to 
provide our total leadership with the quality of support and 
supervision which is required at the program level. 


All staff members are encouraged to work out a plan for con- 
tinuing self-development and to enhance their competence 
through an on-going program of specialized training activi- 
ties. 


LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT cont'd 


During the period covered by this report, staff members took 
part in the following events: 


= % attended Human Relations Laboratories at Bethel, 
Maine, operated by the Nationa! Training Laboratories. 


-~ 18 participated in a week !ong Trainer Development 
Laboratory in the Laurentians sponsored by the Staff 
Deve lopment Committee. 


~ 7 participated in a two day Administration Skill 
Workshop. 


~ 6 attended an intensive 10 day Laboratory for Program 
Secretaries at Geneva Park, under the auspices of the 
Nationa! Council of YMCAs. 


- 5 continued partia! studies at Sir George Williams 
University during the year. 


~ 5 took part in special Summer schoo! programs. 


Fellowship Training Program 


The Montreal Association has fong recognized the importance 
of assisting the growth and development of future YMCA 
secretaries=to=-be. The Fe! lowship Plan which has existed 
since 1920 is a program of personal and professional 
development for students in university who are preparing for 
a YMCA career. Each Fellowship Student is expected to work 
out, with fhe help of his advisors, a personal development 
program which integrates the learning experiences of univer- 
sity courses, part-time work in a YMCA branch, special 
Fellowship training programs and persona! consultations. 

The program becomes progressively more intensive during the 
third and fourth years of university. Selected students 
become "Training Fe!lows" in their final years and take 

part in an intensive field work program. This year there 
were four Training Fellows. 


LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT cont'd 


Two years ago the Plan was revised considerably and a new 
program established which has since been tested and modi- 
fied, culminating in the official! approval of the revised 
program by the Board of Directors in June 1965. Centrali- 
zed field work placement in Branches has now beenreplaced 
with an individually centered program, and considerably more 
prominence is given to regular on-going training programs. 


During its history the Plan has produced many young 
graduates who have embarked on YMCA careers. This has 
strengthened the YMCA in Canada as a whole, as well as the 
Montreal Association. At the present time some 50% of the 
Montreal YMCA staff are graduates from this program, 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY AND SCHOOLS 


This is a summary of the more significant highlights of the 
period June 1963 to May 196. More complete information 
will be found in the Annual Report of the University which 
will be published later this Fall, 


Academic Development 


This has been the second year of operation under the new 

form of university government, and the Deans, now including 

a Dean of Commerce, have taken an increasingly effective 

hold upon the administration and operation of the academic 
program and development of the university. A satisfactory 
number of new faculty appointments have been made, strength- 
ening our academic position qualitatively, as well as quant i- 
tatively, and bringing us into a much more favorable staff/ 
student ratio. Further promising steps have been taken to 


SiR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY AND SCHOOLS cont'd 


encourage and enable present members of the faculty fo ene 
gage themselves increasingly in various forms of scholarly 
activity. New programs of study, notably the first work at 
the graduate ievel, have been established, and the under- 
graduate program extended or strengthened, particularly in 
Commerce. 


At the Spring Convocation, for the first time, the honorary 
degree of Doctor of Laws were conferred. The first 
recipients were: 


The Honourable Jean Lesage, Premier of the Province of 
Quebec. 


Mgr. Aiphonse-Marie Parent, Chairman of the Royal 
Commission of Inquiry on Education in the Province 
of Quebec. 


Dr. Howard |. Ross, Chancellor of McGill! University. 


Dr. Evan H. Turner, Director of the Philadelphia Art 
Gallery and former Director of the Montrea! Museum of 
Fine Arts. 


The most critica! event during the year was the impact of 
the publication of the second and third parts of the report 
of the Royal Commission of Inquiry on Education in the Pro- 
vince of Quebec. The Committee on Academic Planning sus-= 
pended ai! other activities and mef almost weekly to study 
various phases of the report, especially those parts of the 
report dealing with the proposed "institutes" and with 
higher education. Similarly sub-committees of each Faculty 
Council! were set up to study the possible effects on the 
curriculum of each faculty. 


Size of the Operation 


The only basic change in operations was the introduction of 
Day Division classes during the Summer of 196. Special 
Summer Sessions were offered in Sociology and in Geography. 


Ihe 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY AND SCHOOLS cont'd 


Registration in the University by Faculties 196-6 


Summer 196 Academic year 196-6 
Day Evening Total 
Arts 1,05) 1, 702 3,26) 6,020 
Science 478 The 1,25) 2,47) 
Commerce 551 778 1, 7,0 3,069 
Engineering 26 229 17h 29 
Partial __428 — 1.997 2,3) 


Totals 2,537 3,160 8,129 Ih, 426 


Student Affairs 


The past year has produced some of the most significant 
developments in student life in the university with fhe for- 
mation of the University Council on Student Life, the Over- 
seas Advisory Committee, the Chaplains Advisory Committee on 
Religious Life, the Study Committee on the Evening Students’ 
Association, the Student Discipline Committee and many other 
projects which saw students, faculty and staff discussing 
mutual concerns and developing recommendations to the Univer- 
sity 


The wide range of programmes during 196 included the weekly 
meetings of sixty clubs, demonstrating many different and 
varied activities. 


Along with the on-going activities mentioned, there were 
among others the following special events: The Annual De- 
bating Tournament, Winter Carnival, International Seminar, 
Science and Commerce Weeks, United Nations, International 
Week, leadership development, and drama productions. 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY AND SCHOOLS cont'd 


The University athletic programme for the 196-65 season was 
more extensive fhan any ofher year and equally as successful. 
Statistics show that 260 were active in 18 intercollegiate 
sports. The programme offered to the student body included 
some ) different activities on the intercollegiate, intra- 
mural and recreational leveis of competition. 


The intercollegiate teams played in a total of !75 games or 
tournaments and travelled a total of 55,000 miles in the 
United States and Canada, 


Guidance Services 


As society moves evermore quickly towards an automated tech- 
nological! existence, as speciaiized vocational! opportunities 
multiply, as special! educational programs develop to provide 
individuals with new skilis, the student's need for guidance 
and counselling increases. 


If is the role of this office to offer the student an oppor- 
tunify to discuss freely in a confidential and professional 
setting any mater that may be of concern to him. The focus 
is on helping the student understand himself better, to in- 
crease his competency in establishing realistic goais and 

in choosing rational means of attaining them, 


The statistica! summary for the review period shows a total 
of approximately ,989 individual counselling appointments 
with members of the staff. tn addition, some 6,639 
appointments were made on e: ther an individual or group 
basis for psychological testing, visual! examination or 
reading training. The Placement Office reports l,929 inter- 
views with students, !,6h3 graduating student interviews 
with employers recruiting on campus and 730 placements. 
Finaliy, 75 campus visits from employers were made to inter- 
view students af the university. This was an increase of 

th companies recruifing on campus over the previous year. 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY AND SCHOOLS cont'd 


Public Relations 


During the past year we concentrated our activities at im- 
proving our communications with the many groups in the 
university community. 


A great deal of emphasis was given to internal communications. 
We believe that those who are making this university a reality 
need fo be well informed about their institution. The 
"Principal's Bulletin" was introduced in October and proved 

a valuable addition to our community. 


High Schools 


The demand for continuing education at the pre-universi ty 
leve! continues to give the schools an important and 
growing place in the total work of the Association. Summer 
School registration was 1,396 students, taking a total of 
2,336 courses. The Fall term saw a registration of 3,),9% 
students in High Schoo! and 90 students in Elementary 
School, and several hundred more registered during the Fall 
and Winter for a total student body of 5,323. 


It is interesting to note that demand and registration in- 
creased again in our school, although most School! Boards in 
Montreal and vicinity are now offering free tuition evening 
high school classes. 


School of Retailing 


Due to restrictions on instructional and field work space, 
the School continued to operate with a maximum of 6I 
students. Of these, 28 were in second year and 33 in first. 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY AND SCHOOLS cont'd 


Competition for graduatesamong the cooperating stores was 
very keen and mosf graduates were offered more than one 
position. 


Business School 


Nr. ReN. Elliot retired in the Autumn of 196), his successor 
Miss Helen D. Byers was appointed @ his Associate effective 
April !st, and was officiaily appointed Director, July Ist, 


i96h.. 


The Evening Division of the Business School opened in May 
196 with 22 students. The majority of students con- 
tinued throughout fhe Summer and successfully passed 
examinations in early September. The Summer registration 
for the Day School was al. 
For the 1964-65 term, we registered 229 students in the Day 
Division and 597 students in the Evening Divisione 


Schoo! of Arf 


7 students were enrelied in the Day Division and 123 
foliowed their program in the evening. New students were 
registered for a two year course only, owing fo the fact 
that the Schoo! will be discontinued in May 1966. 


A number of visits were made by the First Year Students to 
the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts, the McCord Museum and the 
Botanical Gardens. 


CAMPING 


Kamp Kanawana 


The YMCA of Montreal has pioneered in the field of camping 
since 189. Forty thousand boys have earned the title 
"Kanawanian" since Kanawana was established. Kamp Kanawana 
is ideally located near St. Sauveur des Monts in the Lauren- 
tians, about 50 miles from Montreal. The camp property ine 
cludes three lakes and a part of a fourth, covering some 
1,000 acres. Facilities of every kind make possible a 
variety of program regardless of weather conditions. 


During the Summer of 196, 535 boys and 6h leaders were in- 
volved in this program with a total attendance of ri25 
camper days. 


A significant development during the year was the acquisi- 
tion of 120 acres of adjoining property fo essure the cone 
tinued privacy and aliow for potential future development. 
Part of this property was acquired in cooperation with the 
Boy Scouts Association Camp Tamaracouta. This move now 
joins the two camp properties. 


Les Voyageurs de la Verendrye 


300 miles north of Montreal is La Verendrye Park. Within 
several thousand square miles of virgin bush and lakes, some 
occasional Indian encampments, Hudson's Bay Posts, lumber 
camps and fire rangers, are the only signs of civilization. 
This was the land of New FranceoooThe Domain of Radisson, 
the Home of the Algonquins and the once busy territory of 
the French beaver trapping Voyageurs. In this vast une 
spoifed country 9 older boys and 7 leaders tested their 
ability to live together for periods of three to four weeks 
in a challenging and exciting adventure in the wilderness 
of northern Quebec, 


18a 


CAMPING cont'd 


Family Camping 


Lake Becsies, a beautiful clear water lake, is the site of 
the Family Camping Grounds of the Montreal YMCA, The ine 
creased interest in Family Camping prompted the Boys! 
Camping Committee of the Montreal YMCA to develop an area 
of the Kanawana property for this purpose. The sites are 
a mile and a half from fhe boys! camp. 


Otoreke Holiday Island and Ski Lodge 


The beautiful island retreat near St. Adolphe was a holiday 
setting for 1,052 young men and women, and a conference site 
for many YMCA and community groups. 


City Day Camps 


Summer Fun Clubs 


Boys and girls remaining in the cify for a!l or part of the 
Summer months need opportunities to use their vacation 
period as a fime to meet new friends, learn new skills, and 
become betfer acquainted with the communities in which they 
live. 


Three branches have now acquired sites for developing a 
camp=-=like atmosphere for their programs, while other 
branches use their own facilities as headquarters for pro- 
grams which take youngsters on trips and tours, industrial 
visits and camp-oufs. 


During 1964, 1,955 boys and girls spent 19,000 camper days 


at various ftyn Summer program centers on the Isiand of 
Montreal. 


1 8b 


WORLD SERVICE 


From its modest beginning in 1890, the World Service Program 
of the YMCAs of North America has become a most effective way 
in which our members and friends can respond to the urgent 
needs of people on the world front. Each year funds are 
raised to send highly trained Canadian and American Secre- 
taries to developing nations around the world. These men 
train local leaders and provide the know-how which is ine 
strumental in developing new self-governing YMCA movements. 


The 75th Anniversary was fittingly recognized at the Annual 
Plenary Meeting of the International Committee in Cleveland 
last September. In this brief period over 700 World Ser- 
vice men have helped expand the "Y" in over 50 different 
countries of Asia, Africa, Europe, the Middle East and 
Latin America. Today the YMCA's of 8% countries and terri- 
torles have 12,000 centers in operation with an estimated 
98, 000, 000 people being influenced by "Y" programs yearly. 
"In the midst of shifting values, these centers are proving 
grounds for the Christian way of life. In the midst of 
idealogical strife, each is a demonstration of the power of 
democracy and the effectiveness of the voluntary organiza- 
tion in meeting needs. Together they constitute an unique 
and penetrating force in the cause of peace." 


In the past the major solicitation of funds for World Ser- 
vice has been concentrated in the Spring of the year. How= 
ever, due to our heavy involvement in the combined Capital 
Appeal for Sir George and Annual! YMCA Campaign, this was not 
possible during the past year. Nevertheless, considerable 
activity took place = printed materials were distributed, 
including the World Communique and the Reporter, use of 
World Service films, and several visitors from the field 
gave personal testimony to the effectiveness of the program 
and continuing need for our generous support. These visits 
are particularly valuable in providing a practical oppore- 
tunity to share first hand information about the programs 

in various countries and to appreciate the qualify of leadere= 
ship which is at work on the world front. 


WORLD SERVICE cont'd 


Visitors during the year included: 


~ James Edgar, World's Alliance of the YMCA, with 
particular responsibilities in the area of Inter 
Movement Aid. 

- MeG. Dharmaraj, National Genera! Secretary of India, 
a former sojourner in Montreal on an extended visit. 

= Dre S.-H. Pang, General Secretary of the YMCA, Hong 
Kong, an important figure in the selection of 
Chinese students attending Sir George Williams Univer- 
SITY s 

- M. Assensi, National Secretary for France. 

- HeSe Raychaudhuri, Executive Secretary, College Branch, 
Caicutta, 

- Willi Ertl, World Alliance staff member related to 
training programs at Castle Mainau, 

- Washington Muuya, Kenya, Africa. 

~ George Tanaka, Educational Secretary, Osaka, Japan. 


Several of our local leaders and staff were fortunate to be 
able to visit various countries and see World Service Pro- 
grams in operation. in April, Ore Ho»F. Hall and Mr. E.A.Lowe 
accompanied a group of Canadian leaders on a@ tour of YMCA 
projects in Japan, Hong Kong, Thailand, india, Lebanon, 
Jordan, Israel, Greece and visited the Geneva Headquarters of 
the World's Alliance of YMCAs, Terry Patterson, a Montreal 
Fellowship Student spent the Summer in the Junk Bay Camp of 
the Hong Kong YMCA, and another graduate, Murray Cain, spent 
the year as a Junior World Service Secretary in Lebanon. 


196, Financial Results were: 


Objective Actual 
North America $2,379, 113.6 $2,031,630. 
Canada 200,000. 177,918. 
Montreal 4,0, 000. 1,0, 000. 


20. 


WORLD SERVICE cont'd 


A special Capital Assistance Program Guarantee Fund of 
$300,000.00 was also raised in North America in 196) to 
provide a revolving guarantee fund to deal with urgent 

needs. These funds may be replaced by designated or undesig- 
nated gifts when received. 


The following tabulation gives results by administrative 
units: 


Camp Otoreke # 1,000. 
Downtown Branch 5,050. 
International Branch 00. 
Kamp Kanawana ats 
Lachine=-Dorval Branch 00. 
Lakeshore Branch 390. 
Northmount Branch age" 
Notre Dame de Grace Branch 1,000. 
Sir George Williams University 1929]: 
Verdun=-LaSalle Branch 266.6 
Westmount Branch 1,00. 
Metropolitan 26,103. 

$0,000. 
WeS. Guarantee Fund $134,000. 


Montreal is well represented on the International Committee 
by Messrs: JeJoF. Bancroft, GoD. Birks, W.N. Clelland, 
WeA. Devereux, JoB. Frosst, FeB. Peterson, MoF. Strong and 
FeGe Hubbard, 


2l. 


FINANCE AND PROPERTY 


Joint Executive Committee 


In view of the size and complexity of building and facili- 
ties of the YMCA and Sir George Williams University and the 
present and projected dimension of Accounting Services of 
both organizations a Joint Executive Committee was organi- 
zed in September 196). The responsibility of this body is 
"to provide the most effective and economical services 
possible in the Accounting and Premises Area", The Person- 
nel includes the President, Vice-President, Chairman of 
SGWU Board of Governors, Chairman of SGWU Finance Committee, 
Principal and Controller of SGWU, Honorary Treasurer, 
General Secretary and Financial Secretary, 


Task forces were also organized to set up plans and pro- 
cedures in each of the areas. 


Financial Campaign 


The Annua! Campaign which for many years has taken place in 
November and which in 196 ran concurrently with the 
Capital Appeal for Sir George Williams University in May, 
was held March 29 to April l2. 


A goal of $310,000.00 representing carefully calculated 
realistic needs was readily accepted by all segments of the 
organization. Robert H. Hoppe, as General Chairman, gave 
outstanding teadership to the undertaking. He personal ly 
took part in the planning of each Division from the outset 
and added much to the morale of all workers. 

J. Leonard Walker as Chairman and Bruce Tingley as Vice= 
Chairman of Special Names carried this heavy responsibility 
in the usual! fine tradition and made many significant gains. 
The Publicity Committee, headed by F.W. Bradshaw, supported 
the effort with an excellent program of news items, news~ 
paper ads, radio and T.V. spots and the printed materials. 
The Division Chairmen guiding the efforts of some 2,000 
workers, and rendered excellent service. 


225 


FINANCE AND PROPERTY cont'd 


Dre Glenn S. Olds, President of Springfield College gave a 
most inspiring message at the opening Rally of Key Workers 
held ten days in advance of the regular campaign period. 
His address, based on an intimate understanding of the 
strategic opportunities of the "Y" in the world today was 
timely and relevant to the money raising task. 


The final anticipated results, with some items incomplete at 
the year end, is $297,000.00 which is the largest sum ever 
raised for maintenance purposes and while short of the ob- 
jective, is considered a significant step forward in annua! 
fund raising. 


Certain emphases in campaign strategy proved of value and 
contributed to the success of the effort: Early involve-= 
ment of the General Chairman with Division leaders; 
Saturday Breakfast Meeting of the Division leaders in 
January; Divisional quotas self established$; advance can- 
vass of all Board Members, Campaign Officers, Division 
Chairmen and members of the staffs acceptance of a minimum 
giving standard by sponsors of $50,003 use of blitz tech- 
nique on a day or evening basis where applicable. 


Sir George Williams University Building Fund 


Solicitation for this Capita! Appeal with a goal of $7,000,000 
continued throughout the year. Final reports on certain calls 
are still pending, others to follow in sequence are yef fo be 
undertaken and follow ups where requested in 1965 await com- 
pletion. The results at the year end showed $5,518,652.00 
having been received from the following sources: 


Advance Gifts $3,019,272. 
Special Names 502, 706. 
Alumni 7195 99 6 
SGWU Officers, Staff & Students 59,5076 
Teams 16, 3336 
Foundations 8h47, 900. 
Out=of-City 8 25. 


$5,518,652. 


23. 


FINANCE AND PROPERTY cont'd 


The leadership of Mr. WeN. Hall in this major undertaking 
merits the highest commendation. Ofher members of the 
Management Committee have ably supported him in this con- 
tinuing effort to realize the minumum required to complete 
the H.F. Hall Building and related facilities. 


BUILDING AND FACILITIES 


Henry F. Hall Building 


Progress on this project to which brief reference was made 
in the last Annual Report has been steady and according to 
plan. The final contract figure with Perini Quebec Inc., 
is $17,973,302.00 to which is added $3,3),0,100.00 for 
jlaboratory equipment and supplies, and $1, 781,800.00 for 
furnishingse The total cost of the expansion, including 
architect fees, land, and other costs is $26,551,506.00. 
Completion on schedule for Fall occupancy in 1966 would 
appear from ail indications to be a reasonable expectancy. 


Other Facilities 


Many items of major repairs and renewals identified during 
the year could not be undertaken for tack of available funds, 
However, considerable study was given to establish priori- 
ties for this work and some repairs could not be postponed 
without serious consequences. ~— 


2he 


FINANCE AND PROPERTY cont'd 


Endowments 


During the year the following sums were received and added 
to the Endowment Fund: 


F.L. Benedict Estate 5,831.th 
Wm. He Lovejoy Pe onet th 
D.G. McConnell 7,000.00 
JoW. McConnell 50,000.00 
H. Ross MacGregor 50.00 
H.C. Patterson 100,00 
xMrse GoP. Gilmour) 3,000.00 
xMrs. Ro Whidden) 

Mre We Thornhill 1,000.00 


xTo perpetuate annual support of the late George Hodge. 


PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT 


The unprecedented growth of greater Montreal, and the climate 
of rapid and sometimes radical change which sweeps contem= 


porary life, demands a constant adaptation of our resources 
and redirection of our energies. Planning for the fufure 
can no longer be confined to periodic reviews = if must be= 


come an integral part of the on-going management process. 


To accomplish this aim, a Planning and Development Committee 
was created in mid-year under the Chairmanship of 

WoSe Kirkpatrick. A full committee representing the lay 

and staff teadership of all operating units, held two 
plenary sessions during the Spring of 1965, and has been 
successful in identifying some of the basic criteria for 

its work in the days ahead. 


256 


PUBLIC RELATIONS 


The aim of the public relations program is to improve com- 
munication between the YMCA and the total community and with- 
in the YMCA complex. 


Careful study of the need for a more effective public re- 
lations program in the YMCA was made by the Metropolitan 
Public Relations Committee, under the Chairmanship of 
FoW. Bradshaw. 


in the Fail of 196), its recommendations were presented to 
the Board of Directors, An important step towards imple- 
menting the committee's suggestions was taken in January 
when E.A, (Ted) Lowe, Executive Secretary of International 
Branch, was. appointed Metropolitan Public Relations Secre- 
fary. 


Significant progress was made in designing the various 
materials required in our Annual Campaign. The public re- 
lations programs of our camps and several Operating units 
were studied and re-designed, Encouring response was ex- 
perienced from the press, radio and ToVo, and the smaller 
community newspapers in particular have been particularly 
active in supporting the local programs of our various 
branch operations, Several bilingual! pamphlets were pro= 
duced. 


26. 


PERSONNEL 


New Appointments 


DOWNTOWN BRANCH 
Ernest Edwards = Assistant Membership Secretary 
Russell Kisby = Assistant Physical Director 
Ivan Bakk = Assistant Physical Director 
INTERNATIONAL BRANCH 
James McCorkell = Acting Physical Director 


NOTRE DAME DE GRACE BRANCH 


Nancy Shuttleworth = Women's and Girls! Physical 
Secretary 


VERDUN=LASALLE BRANCH 

Sharon Jones - Assistant Secretary 
LACHINE-DORVAL BRANCH 

Murray Horn = Assistant Secretary 
METROPOLITAN OFFICES 


Ronald S. Whittingham - Financial Secretary 


Transfers 
E.A. Lowe - Executive Secretary, International Branch to 
Public Relations Secretary, Metropolitan Offices. 


Glenn Gray - Assistant Secretary, Lakeshore Branch to 
Executive Secretary, International Branch. 


Roy McKelvie = Physical Director, NDG Branch to 
Executive Secretary, Westmount Branch. 


oT. 


R.A. Dickinson 


George Patsios 


Anne Selig 


Gordon Meyers 


Lloyd Welton 


PERSONNEL cont'd 


Resignations 


Financia! Secretary, 
Metropolitan Offices 


Physical Director, 
International Branch 


Women's and Girls! Physical Secretary, 
Notre Dame de Grace Branch 


Assistant Secretary, 
Verdun LaSaile Branch 


Executive Secretary, 
Westmount Branch. 


28. 


JsAs Bul lock 


JoP. Copland 


ReoNo Elliot 


WoD. Johnstone 


Ho. Patterson 


H.C. Nourse 


JoM. Honeyman 
JoW.oA. Ganann 


E. Haldenby 
A. Hendry 


Air V/M AoLe James 
RoP. Jellett 


MeSo Layton 
NsC « Pol Soin 
Revo No. Rawson 


JoHelL. Ross 
L. Rudberg 


OBITUARY 


We record with sorrow the pas- 
sing of a number of friends of 
the Association. 


Member of Lachine Branch Board of Manage- 
ment. 


Member of Metropolitan Advisory Board 


Former Director, Sir George Williams 
Business School 


Administrative Staff, 
Sir George Williams University 


Former Executive Secretary, 
Lachine Branch 


Member of Westmount Branch Board of 


Management 
Professor, Sir George Williams 
University. 

Wo Saddler 


A.W. Seaman 


Dr. MoMe Tunis 


NoM.o Yuile 


JoH. Dougherty 


296 


OFFICERS 


H, Roy Crabtree 
T. Denton Lewis 
WeoN. Hall 

WoS. Kirkpatrick 
JoR. Logan 

W.C. Corbett 
F.G. Hubbard 
CoM. McCully 


METROPOLITAN OFFICERS 


AND BOARD MEMBERS 


President 

Ist Vice-President 

2nd Vice-President 

3rd Vice=President 

Honorary Secretary 

Honorary Treasurer 

General Secretary 

Assistant General Secretary 


DIRECTORS 
JeoC. Annesley Lt. Col. S.C. Holland 
A re! rd ler Bancroft 7 eo Be Houlding 
A. Turner Bone ReA.o Irwin 
FW. Bradshaw JeoWe McGiffin 
LeHeTo Clegg D.R.e McMaster, Q.C. 
We. Norman Clelland CA. Morrison 
C. Lesliie Copland S.C. Norsworthy 
JeRe Crawford JM. Pritchard 
R.A. Emerson WeD. Robb 
Aol. Fairley, Jre BoW. Roberts 
JeB. Frosst A.E. Sargent 
FF. Fulton Mo Strong 
E,L. Hamilton 1.R. Tait 
GoA. Hart Morley G. Taylor 
RE, Heartz 0.B. Thornton 
AR. Hicks CL. Walker 
GoM. Hobart F.B. Walls 
C.W. Webster 
BRANCHES CHA |IRMEN EXECUTIVE SECRETARY 
Downtown ReH. Hoppe A.W. Kembal | 
International B. Burgess EA. Lowe - G. Gray 
Lachine-Dorva |! ToM. Lawrence V. Hryhorchuk 
Lakeshore R.eD. Bennett R. Bannerman 
Northmount W. Strain R. Rouse 
Notre Dame de Grace JoA. Burke JoM. Singleton 
Verdun-LaSal le Je McCaughan RB. McFar lane 
Westmount C.E. Reckitt G. Le. Welton 


30. 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY AND SCHOOLS 


Fas Fulton - Chairman, Board of Governors 
BoW. Roberts - Chancellor 
R.C. Rae - Principal and Vice-Chancellor 


CHAIRMEN OF METROPOLITAN STANDING COMMITTEES 


Executive - T.D. Lewis 

Finance and Property ~ WeN. Hall, Chairman 
WoC. Corbett, Vice-Chairman 

Investment - WoC. Corbett 

Endowment ~ JoR.o Crawford 

Public Relations - FoW. Bradshaw 

Founder's Day - To D. Lewis 

Otoreke - F.B. Peterson 

Bui Iding - 1o.Ro Tait 

World Service - Wo No Clelland 

Salary - WoN. Hall 

Personnel = ReAo Irwin 

Boys! Camp - Ke Farquharson 

Program - Col. Copland 

Planning and Development - W.S. Kirkpatrick 

ADVISORY BOARD 

ToHo Atkinson F. Johnson 

LoJo Belnap ReR.e Johnson 

JoM. Breen HeHe Lank 

HG. Birks E.A. Leslie 

GeW. Bourke A.W. Mason 

A.Ho. Campbell HoM. Mawhinney 

MoRe Chipman JoGe McConnell 

JoH. Davey WoGe McConnell 

$.G. Dobson JoD. McKeown 

GoV.o Ferguson ToR. McLagan 

Hone Ge8. Foster ReoO. McMurtry 

JoAo Fuller Majo Gen. FeRo Phelan 

BoC. Gardner RoE. Powell 

GoB. Gordon Holo Ross 

HoJo Hannaford HoGe. Smith 

RoD. Harkness WoW. Southam 

GoRe Hodgson RoE. Stavert 

RoC. Holden, Q.C.o G. Tombs 

WeH. Howard, Q.Co Majo Gen. AoE. Walford 

A.C. Jensen E.C. Wood 


