FIFTH 


ANNUAL REPORT 


OF 


CEB WONPRVALD 


Young Men’s Christian Association 


AND 
Cimyr Mission, 


PRESENTED AT THE ANNUAL MEETING OF THE MEMBERS, 
HELD NOVEMBER 18, 1856, 


TO WHICH IS APPENDED 


THE CONSTITUTION AND BY-LAWS OF THE 
ASSOCIATION. 


PLEASE READ AND OIRCULATE. 

Donations in aid of the Mission are respectfully solicited, and may 
be sent to the Treasurer, Mr. P. Wood, 177 Notre Dame Street, or to any 
Member of the Committee. 


MONTREAL: 
Published at the Rooms of the Association, No. 205 Notre Dame Street. 


December, 1856. 


Young men, and persons from the country, are invited to 
visit the Rooms of the Association. They will be open 
every week day, from 5 to 10 o’clock, p.m. <A Library, 
embracing works on Theology, Missions, Biography, History, 
Travels, and general Literature, is open to all who pay one 
dollar per annum. 

The weekly meeting of the Association is held on Tuesday 
evening, at 8 o’clock. 

The Committee meet on the second Monday of each 
month. 

A Bible class meets every Sabbath Afternoon at half-past 
4 o’clock. 

A Sabbath School Teachers prayer meeting is held every 


Sabbath afternoon at a quarter-past 2 o’clock. 


OFFICERS AND COMMITTEE: 


FOR 1857. 


PAI 


PRESIDENT : 
Mr, T. J. CLaxTon. 
VICE-PRESIDENTS : 
Mr. R. MILLER, | Mr. Grorce CHILDS, 
“« James BayYLIs, « J. Lovuson. 


ea OPAh 6k ic oh op bo 6 wee 6 ot gt Ww. Woop. 
Corresponding Secretary.... “ Gro. S.- BrusH. 


Recording Secretary..-.«++++ «¢ W. Dickson. 
COMMITTEE : 

Mr. F. E. Grafton, Mr. George Crawford, 
“A. Milloy, «¢ W.R. Hibbard, 
“« M. Addy, «¢ Wm. Robb, 
‘Richard Hall, “ Geo. Young, 
« S. EH. Curry, “« D. Wark, 
« Alex. C. Clarke, -¢ Wm. Clendinnen. 


STANDING COMMITTEES. 
Mission.—Messrs. J Baylis, F. E. Grafton, Geo. Childs, Richard 
Hall, A. C. Clarke. 

Financr.—W. R. Hibbard, M. Addy, W. Clendinnen. 
Room anp Liprary.—R. Miller, Geo. Crawford, D. Wark. 
Lecture.—J. Louson, A. Milloy, Geo. Young. 
Bratt Crass.—George S. Brush, 5. E. Curry, W. Robb. 

The President and Recording Secretary are members, ex officzo, 
of all the above Standing Committees. 


COMMITTEE ON MEMBERSHIP. 
Chairman—Mr. W. R. HisBarpD. 


St. Helen Street Baptist Church...... ..W.C. Hyatt. 
American Presbyterian GO asic eveee John Murphy. 
United Presbyterian BO: sins Khe W. Hamilton. 
1st Congregational _ GO nv enh nie Albert Savage. 
2nd do UG seiwsere Rev. A. Burpee. 
St. James Street Wesleyan do .----«- .A. Miller, jr. 
Griffntown do TO Nigiise ees Richard Lutterell. 
New Connexion Methodist do ..-e+ee- G. Sargison. 

St. George’s Episcopal GD j- seco es a Thos. Simpson. 
Trinity do dO: “Sve s kee W. Cooper. 

St. Stephens do ee J. Hall. 

Cote Street Free a ae a ay a W. Dunbar. 


St. Gabriel Street Be ute Go ale Ax McGibbon. 


Pa 


FIFTH ANNUAL REPORT. ; 


eel 


In presenting the Fifth Annual Report of the Montreal Young 
Men’s Christian Association and City Mission, your Committee 
would first tender thanks to Almighty God for the measure of suc-. 
cess with which he has favored the Association, and for the warm, 
courteous, and Christian intercourse which has existed affiong the 
brethren. As hand has joined hand, so has heart been joined 
to heart in the effort to promote the spiritual welfare of those who 
are the special objects of our efforts. And your committee have 
not labored in vain. In the career of usefulness upon which the 
Association has entered, in the spiritual enjoyment which has been 
experienced, and in*the Christian love and unanimity which pre- 
vail, the Committee feel that the good hand of their God has 
been with them, and to Him they ascribe the praise and glory. 
Your Committee, in the prosecution of their duties, have 
become more deeply convinced of the importance and value 
,of Young Men’s Christian Associations,—forming, as they do, 
/ anagency of great power for reaching, and bringing under the 
most favorable influences, the young men of the community. 
The stranger just arrived from a foreign land, or a country 
home, meets, when he comes into contact with such an associ- 
ation, with young men, whose companionship will be safe, and whose 
influence will be of the happiest kind. During the past year, not 
a few young men on their arrival from Britain, have been met,— 
introduced into good boarding houses,—aided to procure employ- 


: ment, and are now members of the Association, 
Another feature of great interest in this Organization, is the 


union of young men of the various sections of Christ’s Church, 
for spiritual improvement, and for Christian labor. The Christian 
A intercourse enjoyed by the members for some time past, has been 
| most cheering, and frequently in our meetings, have the words of 


6 


Holy Writ been realized, “ How good and how pleasant it is for 
brethren to dwell together in unity !”’ 

Then the banding together of these Christian young men, to do 
good as they shall have opportunity, must be regarded as of great 
moment to the future of the Church. A process of training, for 
the warfare against the powers of darkness and their attendant 
train of evils, is going on, and young men are preparing for 
greater usefulness, if spared to attain a riper age. The active and 
devoted Christian laborers in this field of usefulness, will furnish 
our churches in after years with Pastors and Teachers, with Elders 
and Deacons, and our Mission fields with Evangelists. Already 
some of the brethren, on vessels in the Harbour, and in the homes 
of the poor, have made known the way of salvation. Some, too, 
once with us, are now preachers of the gospel ; and it is hoped that 
others will follow their example. In the present dearth of ministers 
in all sections of the church, the duty of Christian young men in 
reference to the ministry demands their prayerful consideration. 

The additions to the membership during the past year have been 
121. The present number of members is 205. The Association 
suffers, as do the Churches of this city, from the floating character 
of the population. Numbers of yoeng men formerly associated 
with you as members, are now residents of other places. During 
the present year several brethren have removed to the Western 
part of the Province, who were most efficient and devoted members 
of the Committee. Their former connection with you will, no 
doubt, have a pleasing influence over them in their new location, and 
it is hoped that their warm interest in the objects of your Associa- 
tion, will lead them to influence young men among whom they now 
_ reside, to unite for purposes similar to those which bring together the 
Christian young men of this city. 

Last winter, whilst Mr. Brown’s Bill for promoting Sabbath 
~ observance was before Parliament, your Committee prepared a pe- 
tition to the Legislature in its favor, This petition was signed in 
behalf of the Association, by the President and Seeretary. Another 
petition from the Young Men of Montreal in favor of the same bill 
was got up by your Committce, and sent to the Legislature with 
hearly 700 signatures. Quite recently a petition to the eity Coun- 


| 


— =—iéiah es 


7 at 


cil has been adopted, praying that body to establish a Juvenile 
Reformatory. 

Rooms.—!In the early part of the year your Committee felt, 
that jt was essential to the prosperity of the Association, that a 
suite of good rooms should be provided in a public central 
locality ; and, after careful search for a building, they decided to 
lease for two years, at an annual rental of £60, the building which 
you now occupy. ‘The upper portion of the house is occupied by 
your Missionary, who is thus accessible to all who wish to see 
him. ‘The wisdom of this arrangement is justified by the increas- 
ing number of persons who are calling upon the Missionary on busi- 
ness relating to the Mission. 

It would gratify the Committee to see more of the members 
occasionally visiting the Rooms, and introducing young men not 
members of the Association. It is hoped every member will aim 
to attend as frequently as possible, and also use his efforts to induce 
others to attend. ‘The Rooms are open each evening of the week, 
Sabbath excepting, from 5 to 10 o’clock, and a cordial invitation 
to visit them is given to all young men and to persons visiting the 
city. We have a Reading Room, supplied with good books, 
magazines and papers; a room for meetings, bible classes, &c., 
anda Committee Room. During a part of the year the use of 
one of the Rooms was granted to about a dozen French Canadian 
youths to hold a prayer meeting in. 

Lisrary.—The Library contains upwards of six hundred 
volumes in the English language, on theology, biography, missions, 
history, science, art, travels, and miscellaneous literature, with com- 
mentaries, dictionaries, &c. Many of the works are of great value 
and excellence, whilst a large portion are of an entertaining yet 
instructive character. There are also about one hundred and fifty 
yolumes of excellent works in the French and German languages. 
Since the first of January only about 120 volumes have been taken 
out by the membeas of the Association. The books have, how- 
ever, been well read by seamen and others who have attended the 
Reading Rooms. The Missionary has also lent a number of 
volumes to those whom he visits. More ‘than a dozen volumes in 
English have been donated to the Library since the last Report ; 


.' 


8 


about half of these were the gift of Mr. R. C. McCormick, jr., 


of New York. 

Our brethren connected with the Young Men’s Christian Union 
of Elberfield in Germany, have shown great courtesy to this 
Association, by their handsome donation of more than one hundred 
volumes in the German language. 

Kinprep AssociaTions.—During the year your Committee 
have had fraternal correspondence with similar associations in 
various parts of this continent ; and this correspondence has from 
time to time been laid before you. Your Committee have 
rejoiced to hear of the prosperity which has attended the labors of 
their brethren in other places. It will possibly gratify the brethren 
to learn that the kindred associations in this Province are in a 
prosperous state. Your Missionary, during his country excursion, 
was instrumental in forming an Association at Martintown and 
another in Brockville. Communications have also been received 
_ from Belleville and London in Western Canada, relative to the 
projected formation of Associations in those places. It is worthy 
of note that the letters, in both cases, were from gentlemen who 
were formerly residents of this city. 


Lectures.—Last winter a lecture was delivered before the 
Association by Prof. Dawson of McGill College, on the “ Scriptu- 
ral Narrative of the Creation.” This lecture was heard by a large 
and highly respectable audience. ‘The Rev. O. KR. Bachelor, a 
Missionary from India, also gave three lectures on India and the 
Hindoos, illustrated by transparencies. The Rev. Mr. Upham, 
of Fairfax, Vermont, also kindly engaged to deliver a lecture, but 
was prevented by stormy weather. 

Last spring ten Ministers of the city, of six denominations, kindly 
consented to deliver a course of Religious Lectures to the working 
classes in Griffintown. ‘These lectures were numerously attended, 
and were heard with apparent interest by many, who for months, 
had quite neglected the public means of grace. The following 
is the list of Lecturers, with the subjects of their Lectures :— | 


Rev. W. Taylor, D.D,......Peter’s Faith. 
«” , W. Jeffers.............The Great Supper. 
“« A. Burpee.....-..... +. Fidelity. 


9 - 
“¢ J,C. Watts... .sececees The Water of Life. | 
« B. Davies, L.L.D.....-- The Bishop of Souls. 
6 J. Jones... seeccsecercs The Great War. 
« . Wilkes, D.D......-- The Great Change. 
“« J, MeLoud..... ge ae od Prayer. 
«“ Wir. Williams....-..ee+- The City of Refuge. 
‘© Mr. Broxholme......--- Happiness, How to obtain it. 


Mr. S. Massey, Miss.Y.M.C.A. Jesus and the Poor. | 
A second series of similar lectures are now being delivered by 


the following gentlemen. 


Rey. H. Wilkes, D. D........ The Gospel and Conscience. 

« W.Taylor, D. D......- Faith—W hat is it? 

« J. Lillie, M. D......... Apostolic Prophecy. 

A, Burpeesscecorcseees Elijah the Prophet. 

“ 6G. Young......-> aeons . The Model “ Builder.” 

“ J. McLoud..... Ie ae oe» The Great Reformer. 
The Missionary. ...+.eseseees A Message from God. a 
Rev. B. Davies, L. L. D...*...The Christian Race. 

« J, N. Williams..........Moses and his Choice. 

RS 6, | YE Fc Parggpe wee+s-dacob’s Ladder. 


The Missionary....-.+++2.++-Lhe Waldenses. 


The design of these lectures is to awaken the attention of hun- 
dreds in that quarter of the City, to the things which relate to 
their immortal destiny, and it is hoped that the attention of many 
will be awakened to concern for their soul’s salvation. 

During the present fall, arrangements were made for a course 
of eight lectures, in the following order. 


“Nov. 20.—Rey. Donald Fraser, M.A. Subject: “ Christian Pa- 

triotism.”” | 

Dec. 11.—Principal Dawson, McGill College. Subject : “ Types 
and Special ends in Nature.” 

Dec. 26.—Rev. John McLoud. Subject: “Sketches of ‘Travel 
in the Old World.” 

Jan. 8.—Rev. Thos. Wardrope, Ottawa. Subject: “ Woman, 
her true position and influence.” 

Jan. 24.—Rev. John Lord, Lecturer on History, Stamford, U.S. 

Subject: “ Oliver Cromwell.’ The Puritans. 

Feb. 5.—Rev. David Inglis, Hamilton. Subject: “Scottish in- 

fluence in Literature.” 


Ce go 


_ was held in this City. This Convention was attended by eighty- 


.of its regular meetings, was favored by our friend and fellow- 


10 


March 5.—Rev. W. Bond, St. George’s Church. Subject: 
“ Sabbath Schools, their rise and influence.”’ 

March 26.—Wm. Craig Baynes, Esq., M. A., McGill College. 
Subject: “ Education, Ancient and Modern.” 


-@ Viekets for the above course have been issued—Price, $1. As 


the expenses attending a course of Lectures are large, it 1s hoped 
that the Religious public will sustain the Association in this effort, 
and that the example of one of our merchants may be extensively 
followed, who presented each of his young men with a ticket 
for the course. 

Tract Errort.—It has been usual to issue each winter two 
tracts, entitled “ Papers for Young Men.” Last winter, two min- 
isters of the City were solicited to write each a paper, but owing 
to the inability of one of these gentlemen to co so in time, only 
one was issued. That one was by the Rev. H. Wilkes, D.D., on 
“ Conscience.” 

In June last, the Annual Convention of the Young Men’s 
Christian Associations of the United States and British Provinces, 


eight Christian brethren, one from London, England, the others, 
from various cities and towns on this continent. The Christian, 
prayerful, and happy spirit which pervaded the Sessions of the 
Convention will long be remembered by all who attended them ; 
and whilst‘one result has been greatly to revive and to quicken 
this Association, sympathy and affection has been drawn out to- 
wards many engaged in the same work as ourselves in the British 
Provinces, and in the neighboring American Union. 

It is pleasing also to note that the Associations represented 
in the Convention, so far asheard from, received an impetus. The 
brethren went back to their homes spiritually quickened—and 
entered upon their labor of love with increased energy, and devis- 
ing new agencies for the promotion of the work they had under- 
taken. ‘Subsequent to the convention, your Association, at one 


worker, ‘Uhomas H. Gladstone, Esq., of London, England, with 
a deeply interesting address on the History of Young Men’s Chris- 
tian Associations, including therein a sketch of the Principal Asso- 
ciations on the continent of Europe. 


11 


Praver Mrntines.—Previous to the meeting of Convention, 
st was resolved by a few members of this Association to meet each 
morning for a fortnight to seek the Divine blessing upon this 
Association, and upon the brethren expected as delegates. Upon 
those meetings the spirit-of all grace rested in a large measure, 
and all who attended them felt it was good to be there. ‘Those 
prayers, your Committee feel, have been richly answered, and a 
faithful, covenant-keeping God, has poured out a blessing far larger 
than our faith merited. May the Association learn therefrom to 
ask more largely in future ; and whilst abundant in labors, may the 
members remember, “ In every thing by prayer and supplication 
with thanksgiving,” to make known their requests unto God, who 
giveth unto all men liberally. 

A Prayer meeting was commenced in July last, and has been 
held regularly every Tuesday evening. The attendance at this 
meeting has sometimes exceeded 30 persons. A few young men 
engaged in Sabbath Schools, have also met for prayer on Sabbath 
afternoon before proceeding to their classes. 


Brste Ciasses.—It was long felt desirable to bring together 
the numbers of young men, who were under no direct scriptural 
influence, to study those words “ which are able to make wise unto 
salvation.” But there had always been a difficulty in the way of 
procuring teachers. In the latter part of last summer, it Was re=- 
solved to make an effort to establish a Bible Class, and a commit- 
tee was appointed to procure a teacher. The old difficulty occur- 
red, and it was suggested that the class should be presided over by 
several gentlemen on alternate Sabbaths. ‘T’his idea was acted 
upon, and arrangements made to have the class conducted in 
the following order :— 

First Sabbath of each month—Rey. Wm. Bond. Subject: Pro- 
phecy. 

Second Sabbath of each month—Professor Dawson. Subject ; 
Scripture Similitudes and Emblems. 

Third Sabbath of each month—Rev. George Young. Subject: 
Gospel Narratives. 

Fourth Sabbath of each month—Joseph Leeming, Esq. ‘Subject: 
Harmony of the Gospels. 


12 


And when a Fifth Sabbath occurs in a month, the class will be 
presided over by the Rev. Donald Fraser. 

The first named gentleman being prevented from fulfilling his en- 

gagement, your committee made application to W. Craig Baynes, 

Hisq., M. A. of McGill College, to fill the vacancy, which that gen- 

tleman with the greatest kindness and readiness consented to do. 

This class your committee regard as one of the most important 
agencies for good to young men, which the Association has planned. 
Every Sabbath afternoon from 50 to 70 young men have been in 
attendance ; and may we not hope that if the Divine favor be sought, 
a blessing will rest upon this effort. A member of your Committee, 
(Mr. Claxton.) also conducts a Bible class for youth, on Monday 
evenings. | 

Ciry Mission. 

This important Christian enterprise has been faithfully prosecu- 

ted during the year, and although your Committee can point to few 
conversions, they believe fruit will yet be found, for the Lord has 
promised that “ your labor shall not be in vain.” Your Committee 
would by no means be indifferent to conversions, and they would 
therefore urge the duty of special prayer, that the Lord would be 
pleased to smile upon the means employed, and give encouragement 
to his servants by establishing the work of their hands. 
- Your Committee bear their cheerful testimony to the faithful 
and laborious diligence with which your Missionary, Mr. M assey, 
has prosecuted his labors, and they commend him to the Christian 
sympathy and love of the members, and ask for him in ‘his trying 
labors, the earnest prayers of God’s people. A Missionary, in a . 
city like ours, meets with very many rebuffs, and but few encour- 
agements. lis work is exceedingly trying, and ofttimes unplea- 
sant. ew men meet with more filth, disease and vice ; and as 
he does a work which is imperative the Church should see done, 
he should be sustained by sympathy ane prayer. 

Your Committee again urge the inadequacy of one man for a _ 
work SO extensive as is presented in this city, and trust that the — 
Association will at once resolve to add at least another laborer. 

During the year your Missionary has distributed over 4:1,000 
tracts, in the English, French, German and Danish languages, 149 


13 


copies of the Scriptures have also been given away. Nearly 150 
volumes from the Library have been lent to the poor, the sick in» 
the hospital, and to prisoners in the jail. The reading of these 
excellent works, will, it is hoped, have a beneficial influence. 
2.287 visits have been made from house to house, among the poor. 
The Missionary is usually well received—the people express them- 
selves thankful, and he is invited to repeat his visits.’ The Jail 
has been regularly visited, and services held every Sabbath. To 
the Hospital 100 visits have been, made, and the sick and dying 
pointed to the Lainb of God. ~ 

Last winter, your Missionary visited the Poor Relief Rooms 
31 times, and rendered good service to the benevolent friends en- 
gaged there, in caring for the wants of suffering humanity. As 
the Agent of the Young Men’s Christian. Association, the Muission- 
ary has spent much time among young men, either residents of the 
city, or strangers just arrived in it. 350 stores were vis ted 
and the attention of young men engaged therein, drawn to the all- 
important subject of religion. Young men have been directed to 
suitable boarding houses, and 10 have been assisted to obtain sit- 
uations. 

Your Missionary visited during the year 671 ships and steam- 
boats. Emigrants and seamen have received tracts and advice 
suitable to their cireumstances. Numbers of the latter have attended 
the Reading Room, and spent their evenings in reading good hooks, 
in place of loitering about taverns. Many of the seamen have 
found our Rooms a quiet retreat, and the Missionary states that 
many a letter has been written to friends at home, which would 
not have been written but for the accommodation provided by the 
Association. Several of your fellow members have regularly 
visited the vessels in port, and invited seamen and sailor boys to 
the Rooms. On several oceasions meetings were held with the 
hardy mariners of a most interesting character. May the good 
seed of the word sown by the wayside, yield fruit in other climes ? 
Interesting extracts from the Missionary’s Journal will be found in 
the Appendix to this report. 

Your Committee, in prosecuting the Mission, have observed 
with pain, an increase of profligacy and intemperance among the 


14 


young of both sexes. Respecting the former evil your Committee 
resolved to address the Ministerial Association of this city as soon 
as it should have resumed its winter meetings. With respect to 
the sin of drunkenness, it is hoped that the Temperance organiza- 
tions of the city will renew their efforts to stay the mighty evil. 
Your Committee can testify, from their experience, that the great 
majority of the inmates of the jail, hospitals and asylums of this 
city, have become so through strong drink. 


STATISTICS OF THE CITY MISSION. 


1.—Tracts, and “ Papers for Young Men,” distributed in English, 
French, German and Danish Languages, on religion and 


ROD ik RAY sce Wiig ond. oh Ub ain Late heheh cae ewe Ee Ls 41,235 
2.—Books lent—in English and French languages.............. 139 
3.—Bibles, distributed in English, French, German and Danish 

TRONS Cosa y Gia ee erie bh cee ak ee ds CELL 2 Te 149 
See V IB ORL CH ANY ii sos Sele Se Suid cite ads yb #8 2287 
Beni Ge) Mail nile ee Face CnC Aine his Ok bine dhe oi stow seuctirmbare eae 87 
6.— Do. Hospital...... ENNIS Ey San, Ruel Sa ee Ma 100 
a et LOONEY LOOMIS 6 ies k soe. VEE UN eeu Ee oe: 31 
oo. ‘pups and Stenmboats. ois. ou Coe as he 671 
Or 400... Maman ABVIUM hes ssn Meade code cgh alii, ok 3 

10.— Do. Ladies’ Benevolent Institution........... a bea tll 6 
11.— Do. Distributing Papers, &c., to young men engaged in 

ON via nces' sone wi neibin a 9 ants 49-4 wAdCy Sinan 4 heiea. cacsakee wine 350 
12.—Meetings for prayer and exhortation among the poor......... 164 
13.—Agegregate attendance at meetings, &C..........cccscececes 6344 
14—Addrosbes 0 Hehovlavis sy ica dh. Sse roe OR Ly ee 33 
WP ammres TOMOROR Os. owe RA Reh tG ee eae 44. 
16—Situations obtained for young men...........cccccccccceuce 10 
17.—Boarding houses obtained for young men.........cccececese 15 
18.—Adults induced to attend church............. ccc ceeuce yee 13 
19.—Children induced to attend Sabbath School..............00. 22 
Wor reached in City ‘Oiurches ico pae ee ee 13 
21.—Hotels visited for the purpose of distributing Tracts......... 8 
22.—Drunkards induced to sign the pledge...............cc0ece 4 


Religious services have been held on the Sabbath in the jail, 
throughout the year, and also during the summer on board the 
ships in the harbor. : 

During the summer it was resolved to place before the Associa- 
tion certain plans of usefulness, in which the energy and activity 
of young men might find a channel, should God in his providence 


15 


open the way. Among the agencies recommended were Union 
Sabbath Schools in localities where children could not be induced 
to attend existing Sabbath Schools; and district prayer meetings, 
under the direction of the Mission Committee, for the poor and 
for those who are neglecting the means of grace. Four district 
prayer meetings were held last winter by the missionary, and much, 
spiritual good resulted from them, but it was felt desirable that the 
members of the Association should conduct these meetings, and 
thus permit the missionary to have more evenings to himself. 

Hitherto there has been no opening for Sabbath Schools; but 
arrangements have been made for resuming the district prayer 
meetings, to be conducted by members of the Association, appointed 
by the Mission Committee. There is a growing desire to engage 
young men in the mission work, and-not a few having the requisite 
qualifications have expressed their willingness to consecrate a por- 
tion of their time to the spiritual good of those around them. 

It has also been resolved to open books in which may be entered 
the names of young men seeking employment, and the names of 
employers requiring assistants. 

A Membership Committee has also been appointed of one mem- 
ber from each church represented in the Association. The duties of 
this Committee will be found in the By-laws. It is hoped that this 
Committee will increase the efficiency of the Association, and tend 
to facilitate its intercourse with the churches represented in it. 


The thanks of the Association are due to the American Tract 
Society, of New York, to the Religious Tract Society and the 
Auxilliary Bible Society of this city, for liberal grants to the Mis- 
sion—also, to the proprietors of the New York Independant, the 
Hamilton Christian Advocate, the Morning Star, the Toronto Echo, 
the Christian Messenger, of Brantford, the Canadian Independant, 
the Canadian Evangelist and the Montreal Witness, for donating 
their papers, and to John Dougall, Esq., and the Proprietor of the 
Pilot of this city, for gratuitous advertising, also to Dr. Camp- 
bell for his long continued gratuitous professional services to the 
Missionary’s family. | 


In conclusion, your committee in retiring from the charge you 
entrusted to them, urge upon the brethren to abound in love and 


16 


good works. Encourage in each other those graces which 
adorn the Christian character, and whilst you honor the Master you 
serve, cultivate a generous Jove to all who bear the Saviour’s name. 
Let intercourse between the brethren be marked by \ the 
simplicity and grace which is in Christ, that it may call forth the 
wondering exclamation,—* See how these Christians love one an- 
other.” And let not obstacles discourage, or indifference lead 
to relaxation of effort in this enterprise. Freely ye have re- 
ceived—freely give. Let each employ all his influence, and by 
active labor and earnest prayer, sustain and enlarge the plans of 
_ the brotherhood. , 
// Nor let the unconverted young man, whom you daily meet in 
/ in the pursuit of business, be forgotten. One great end of your 
Association is to bring them under religious influences among their 
own class. Aim to be useful to those young men. Let your pro- 
fession of religion be marked by sincerity and earnestness, by ho- 
liness of life and pious cheerfulness, that all around you, may learn 
the grace and power of true religion. Remember your Lord’s 
command,“ Let your light size before men, that they may see 
your good works, and glorify your father who is in heaven,” and 
forget not the Apostolic injunction to “ do good unto all men, 
as ye have opportunity.” 

Each member is responsible for the right working of the Asso- 
ciation, and should feel it his duty and privilege to labor for its | 
peace and prosperity. Let those who have tasted that the Lord 
is gracious, learn to tell others of that grace, and seek to make 
this sin-stricken world, better and happier. You are not laboring 
for heathen at a distance, for outcasts in foreign lands, though 
they have claims upon your Christian sympathies, but you are call- 
ed to labor for heathen who live around you, and for outcasts whom 
you meet in your daily walks, and by all that is awful in their con- 
dition—by all that is solemn in eternity—and by all that is invol- 
ved in your duty to God and to man, be faithful in this work, 
that through the Divine blessing, some may be saved, whose 
feet now tread the downward road. 


—— ee ee ae 


APPENDIX. 


Cee a 


RUNKARDS.—Called to see a man who lately signed the 
veda * He Gal absent from home. I left him a tract, and learned from 
the son that his father still kept the pledge.—Went into a joiner’s work shop. 
Met with a drunkard. Found him trembling, and nervous through drink. 
Spoke to him on his folly and sin. He promised to sign the pledge. He 
is a groat reader, and has read some of the best works out of the Mission 
Library. He often hears the Gospel and understands it, but drink has 
ruined him. I have been trying to reclaim him for scmetime. I took the 
pledge to him, he tried to sign it, but although a good writer, his hand 
was so palsied that his employer had to guide the pen. The latter said he 
had been “a little drop man, for 30 years, but he would now sign the 
pledge.” After they had signed the pledge, we all knelt down among 
the shavings, and I prayed that God would enable them to keep 1t. 


Tue Recuarmmp One.—At the Hospital on one occasion, the Missionary 
found “Two young women who appeared penitent, and anxious about 
therr souls. One of them stated that she knew nothing of religion when 
she first met me two years ago; since that time she had passed through 
much trouble and affliction. When I first saw her she was an unfortunate 
girl; I spoke to her of the sinfulness of her life, and found her willing to 
listen and apparently desirous to reform. For about twelve months I had 
lost sight of her till I met her in hospital. I was glad to learn that she 
had been in service, quite reformed. 

Poverty AND Drinx.—Visited three cases in Griffintown, on behalf of 
Poor Relief Society. Found one family had been receiving relief under the 
pretence that husband had been sick for several weeks. Learned from the 
man’s employer that he had not been absent from his work for three days 
in that time. He was earning six shillings a-day all winter with overtime. 
Found that his wife was given to drink—here was the secret. This and 
another family I visited were in a very filthy state. Husband, wife and six 
children, living in the attic of a small shanty. 

Tus BACKSLIpER.—Lent Doddrige’s Rise and Progress of Religion to an 
intelligent man, sick in the hospital. He was once an officer of a Christian 
Church and Superintendent of a Sabbath School. I met him first in the 
prison, and then spoke to him on the awfulness of his fall. I visited his 
house and found his family in great distress. His wife given to drink and 
his children in rags. Drink was the cause of his fall, and he led his wife 
into the same habit. As yet there is no indication of penitence. 


A Desparring Stinner.—A young woman in hospital stated that she be- 
lieved that Christ was a mighty and willing Saviour, but he could not save 
her. I asked her why? She replied, “I have been such a great sinner, he 
won't save me.” The missionary placed before her the most encouraging 
promises of the Gospel, but she shook her head in despair. She became 
worse and worse until her eyes closed in death. 

“Ty WouLD NOT DO FoR HIM.”—Called upon a man who I was informed, 
is addicted to intemperance. Found him living alone in a small dirty 
shanty. Endeavored to induce him to sign the pledge—declined. Thought 
‘“‘ temperance was a good thing but it would not do for him.” 


Tus Gay Youna Man.—Visited a young man in the jail, respectably 
connected and of pious parentage. He came from England about eighteen 
months since, as Surgeon to an emigrant vessel, and on his arrival in this 
city obtained a respectable situation. Soon after his arrival, he unfor- 
tunately fell into the company of several “fast” young men. There area 
number of these young men in Montreal. They are engaged in stores and 


18 


are considered respectable but frequent saloons, the theatre, &c. I am 
acquainted with many of these young men, and although some are married 
and consider theutselves as belonging to certain churches, I know they 
keep late hours, bad company, and get intoxicated; and after all think 
themselves as ‘‘ only a little gay.” For sometime I have endeavored to 
bring one of the companions of the young man in jail, to a better mind 
and better habits and warned him by the fate of poor “ Well, 
said he, “tis true he has been a little gay.” Poor ’s habits of dress 


- were too expensive for his income, and he robbed his employers to pro- 


% 


~ 


cure money. The associations of the jail had a most disastrous influence 
upon this man’s character. He is now in the States. 


Visiting Young Mun.—The missionary in distributing the “Paper for 
young men” has very favorable opportunities for speaking to them person- 
ally on the salvation of their souls. The missionary speaking on this 
matter says, I think that much good, by the blessing of God, will result in 
this department of my labors. In some of the stores I have had quite a 
congregation of young men, who listened to my remarks with eager interest. 
On another occasion the missionarywrites, ‘‘the young men appeared pleased 
to know that some cared for their souls, and some promised to join the as- 
sociation. Many merchants and employers thought the plan of visiting 
young men in the stores, was an excellent one.” As the winter is selected 
for visiting stores, when business is usually dull, the attention of young 
men is not drawn from their business duties, 


Syort Sxerones or Cuaracter.—The Missionary after referring to one 
of the District Meetings, at which 40 persons were present, gives the fol- 
lowing brief sketches of a few of the most regular attendants: No.1. R 
has been a great drunkard, and in jaii 4or 5 months. Is now a sober man 
and a hopeful character. No.2. Is a Roman Catholic—appears attentive 
and thoughtful. Nos. 3 and 4. B—— and wife. Very poor—but intelli- 
gent. Found them a few months back. Had not been to a place of wor- 
ship for nearly a year. No.5. Mrs. —— a peddler, fond of drink, goes, to 
no church. Nos. 6 and 7. Mrs.— and daughter. Hight in family, liv- 
ing in a small room, allin rags—not one fit to goto church. Husband 
will not attend religious services. No.8. Mrs. - rather respectable 
and intelligent, but attends no church. No.9. Mrs. —— in comfortable 
circumstances, but very ignorant of religion. Attends no church. The 
husbands of 8 and 9 attend no religious meetings. Nos, 10 and 11. Mrs 
——- and Mrs. —-— poor, husbands out of work, attend no church, 


REFUGEES FROM Siavery.—At one of the district meetings, nearly a dozen 
colored refugees have regularly attended. The Missionary writes, “It 
is affecting to hear them pray for the emancipation of their friends in bon- 
dage, their mothers and sisters who are still under the yoke. They pray 
in tears, with great fervency” 


Tue Wipow’s Son.—T. L. was the only son of a widowed mother. Met 
with him early last fall; he was then very intemperate, and a poor ema- 
ciated youth. I spoke to him on the advantages of sobriety, and found 
him frank and intelligent. After a few visits 1 induced him to sign the 
pledge, and he became steady. Iprayed with him, lent him books, and 
showed him the more excellent way. He promised to attend church as 
soon as he got clothes. In a few weeks he bought some clothes, and 
immediately commenced to attend my prayer meeting, without a coat. 
Hard drinking and late hours had brought on a severe cough. Fora time 
it was hoped that steadier habits would restore to soundness his shattered 
frame, but at length it became evident that he was sinking into an early 
grave. He ceased to work, and took to his bed. I frequently visited 
him; he appeared attentive and thankful, but did not say much. He died 
at the end of May. Drink destroyed him. 


19 


THANKFULNESS OF Iuurarants.—The Emigrants receive the Tracts and 
Papers, with much interest, and express themselves as being very thank- 
ful. Many appear surprised to see & stranger take so much interest in their 
welfare. The Norwegian and German emigrants are delighted, and re- 
ceive the tracts in their own languages, with great delight. The Mission- 
ary finds much encouragement among Seamen and Emigrants. 


STRANGERS IN A STRANGE Lanp.---Under date 17th July, the Missionary 
records, ‘It is affecting to see the poor immigrants to-day, exposed to the 
scorching sun, with their dear little ones. A poor Englishman, with a 

oung wife, and three little children, appeared quite broken-hearted. He 
and his young, delicate wife, wept bitterly, as they told me of their trials. 
I gave them a word of comfort, with suitable advice, and obtained for 
them some warm refreshments, 

A Samor’s TESTIMONY TO THE VALUE OF Reuigion.---“‘ Had an interesting 
conversation with a sick sailor. He stated that he had seen something of 
the value of religion, as presented by pious seamen in time of danger. 
Religion made them calm and brave. He had seen them volunteer to do 
dangerous work during a storm, rather than let their unconverted ship- 
mates expose themselves to the danger. What an influence in favor of re- 
ligion must such conduct exert among sailors ? ' 


A Dav’s Work.--- Went on board the Steamship Indian at breakfast 
time, conversed with the men, gave them tracts, and invited them to visit 
the Rooms. Afterward visited the ships and steamboats, to distribute 
tracts. Visited the Hospital, and conversed with sick: Visited three 
sick persons in Griffintown. Two of them clinging to their own works 
as a means of salvation. The third case was mnch more hopeful. Cal- 
led upon several other families given to drink. Dropped a word of coun- 
sel and invited them to prayer meeting.” 

Tur Dying SAror.--- At Hospital found a poor sailor very sick, and 
not iikely to recover. Was much affected as I spoke to him of the way of 
salvation. He has received much light through reading the ‘“ Sinner’s 
Friend,” which was plaeed in his hands a few weeks before. He gives 
good evidence of a change of heart. 

IyicRANTS AND Drink.---“ Many English and Scotch Emigrants up this 
morning. Some of them appeared glad of the opportunity to purchase 
liquors at the taverns along the wharf. They brought the bottles on board 
the steamer, and began to drink freely. Spoke to them on the evil of 
said practice, and recommended them to get tea and coffee while on board. 
One of them threw his liquor away, and advised his companions to do 
likewise.” 

A Guurty Conscrencn.---At the Hospital met with a man, recently from 
the old country. After I had left the room, he sent for me, and on my re- 
turn, said, “I-wish to make a confession to you, can you remain one hour.” 
The poor man had evidently a wounded spirit, he gnashed his teeth, and 
appeared to be in perfect misery. He several times commenced his confes- 
sion, then paused, as if afraid to proceed, then turning, his eyes toward 
the ceiling, exclaimed, “ what shall I do, O God! what shallI do?” I 
asked if he was-murderer. He replied, “I have not murdered any one 
put I have been very bad, I have behaved badly to my mother and sister.’ ’ 
Again he paused, gnashed his teeth, and fell back upon his pillow. . He 
stated that he had come to this country undera false name, and gaye me 
his proper one. He also stated that his sickness arose from a mental 
cause, I could not remain with him longer, and left. Soon after my. de- 
parture, he ended his existence by cutting his throat. It appears to me 
that an intolerable burden of guilt drove him to this act of desperation. 


LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS 


TO THH 


City Tission, 1856 


Received by Treasurer. Js Wa beyrtors eas: 210 0 

SOR, oi cisicunss 1-109 

BB BL Hollands. sos elecas os eee Sie ee 

Mrs. J. R. Orr, per James Theodore Lyman..... 1 5 0 

Court, Ms hhh pany c 12 10 0O Joseph Savage. ren APN 1: 8..<@ 

J.C. Mayerper T.J.Claxton 5 0 0|A. & G. Robertson... ‘ 1.8.0 

J, M. Gilbert. oo... 5.6 cess 1 0 0} Alfred Savage........ Pek ae | 

W. W. Morrow........... 0 7 6] Wn. Learmont....... 2: 3h 

A. A. Stevenson ......... BitO OLR. Wrighitsas <. es ase x 1 5 0 

Os SEDNT sbi vince snes ese DOO) SS VOrst@ey, ceca on. 1” 6..0 

By Rev. J. McKillican.... 015 0 T. M. Taylor A a te ee I 

Laird Paton...... dig earreth gape 010 O/g,. Leeming.......... se SD 

PESNORS gt AS 01 103 i. SE es ‘ee hark 

ee ee | a SOO iy ee 1 5 0 

20 19 42/W.H. Clare...... Pe SANE, «Bs 

ae Mrs. H. Lyman....... to.) 

Collected by Mrs. Dr. Fisher........ O70 

Sam i eG 10 0 

Misses Hislop and Boyd... 4 0 O/|A Lady, per Dr. Wilkes... 1 0 0 

Bae. MORSBOY.. So cs ss aves 114 5/D. Family Miss. Box beh 

Mrs. Ballard........ seeee © 9 1/W. McDougall....... 15 0 

momen FW, MED Oy oe oe 1 0 0 

6.98 OLIN. Dap fo: i: G0 

dich &. Rebate iy os si 010 0 

Collected by Mr. Lockhart. Henry Hemming...... 010 0 

Henry Vennor........ aves OBO 

Robert Lockhart......... LO 01d. dg. Beer fie eo oo. , 010 0 

WP ees ee sea i. 06010. Dunkin... coc). 010 Oo 

James Sculthorp......... O10: 0 hake OMA pats sia i oe 010 0 

Me Prag. i. ok. nieve oO: Bi Ob We. Bowes... s5 5. 010 O 

Pe oad: sind ci es ® 8 10})-F..Scholes............ 010 Oo 

———- | T. W. Boyd.......... 0 5 0 

BiiccB. LOE hes feo eg 2 ee 0 5 0 

dean F eeee koalas sl wil 05 0 

. John Gordon......... 0 5 0 

eh ar ee | eee ee 05 0 

Wi Pa oa A MA kG 5 0 0|J. W. Wheeler........ 0:50 

J. BOVIS. . i evs s bith Sit xs 60 0} @. Hage es cc cel yeni wi SD 

Meu dhs DAVROF . 6 ek ob eldsy B+ 0700 AR, BOM ibis go cans 0 5 0 

W.R. Hibbard........... 6:0 ~0 Hash. pé:. ni < Hie Paiws oe 0! 6110 

G. Winks....... ra eee B 16s 20 WS. Wiktonwi les od. ccc 0 2 6 

C. Alexander............ 210 0| W.G. Slack........., 0.258 

F, E. Grafton............ 210 0 Me 
D. Lewis. .......... via we 240 0 

BR TW, ORG. sn vcces sevens 210 0 69 2 9 


LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS—Continued. 


Collected by Mr. W. Dickson. 
T. J. Claxton...-+--seee 5 0 0 
S. B. Scott... .s.eeeeeeeee 210 0 
Wm. Muir......eeeseeere i. 54 
Wm. Ewan....se-ceeeees 10 0 
Joseph Muir...--.+++++- 3° 5 
S. Tucker....--eeeeereees 1 0 0 
W. Dickson......-+e+eee> 1°09 
Dr. Plimsol.......-.-+-ee- 1.0. 
Joseph Wenham........+- 1 «6 9g 
G. B. Muir... ...eeeeeeees io 8 
Wm. ©. Hyatt ......-.06- $7: 8 
James Milne.......se.-e- 015 O 
Mrs. Kershaw.......+-++. o%6° 0 
Bod. Muiticccc ccs Pes 
19 10 O 

Collected by Mr. D. A. Poe. 
pa Wigk o'  Sapaeaiee 25 ae re a’ S°<3 
John Plimsol........ Sua ae a 
aie STOMP Sy 5 cod-0e%s Melee 210 0 
D. Davidson... ...-sicss.e2 310-0 
Pi Redpath. in\6cwwess 1 0 0 
J. Leson ios84s stquget ean sah dal | 
AXE 47" *. Rear ree ee | G3 1 0 0 
ASD. PRR eek LETS a) -O 
Thos. Davidson.......... , Se | aa | 
Hugh Muir...... sae Aa See eas | 
Jas. TOrranoe: isi iiicsi he “ileis el 
H. D. Ferguson........... oe 
John Redpath............ a ae 
Te. 28 a eg a -- 010 O 
We ME SONS fits detec oe4 010 0 
ROO By sis ee eG 0.3 9 
21 5 0 

Collected by Mr. F. E. Grafton. 

Hon. P. McGill........... ae ae, 
FW. LOPTARCEs «oe dies : O°'0 
Ra TOMO 40 06 0S 8A 1 5 0 
Hugh ‘Allan ....vessess “ae oe 
MO TEORMON iba oa cea ss i 6 0 
J. H. Maitland.....cces-. 010 0 
C. M. Dickinson.......... 010 0 
S. Greenshields.......... 010 0 
Min Peek ee ass d Read -- 010 O 
J. Gilmour de deeecees deeds 010 0 
PG. Side cideenccd 0 5 0 
PRN Od A Nake cee eeese 0 5 0 
DR Se oe 05 0 
ae OS See emer ees eth Ce ow 


A. McFarlane.......... PF SUBe® 
EE WAUE o's se decay oh Caw 9 5 0 
tee Piast sic 6h Cee 0 5 0 
YG, SRR eee Pad een NS 0 5 0 
0: WV “BOP sis esi eles des 0 5 0 
10 10 0 
Collected by Mr. R. Miller. 

Be A. ee i ee 1 5 0 
G. Di Perrier... .66 66a a8 
D, Tore. ols eS 210 0 
Dp. permen se; 25020 210 0 
MY, SO 6 us ae wee 358 
A Pree one eee 15 0 
Fi. APOTOUIE ss 5 baba sis a ee 1:58.08 
G. Browne..... tol TE WL Ne Ss Ae | 
Drees, 224 tees ka es 
1 ig Fe ie eed i ap grag died 010 O 
ide. OUNCE. 2.2 Fe 010 90 
— Henderson: ...ii.cccces 010 O 
John Mathewson......... 0 19 0 
OBC MEME. ‘o's asec ofan 010 O 
H. Mathewson............ 010 0 
THOR. OOTIMING. 3.4603 05% 010 O 
Wm. Lunn..... Bebe eed Se 010 0 
te Sap ORG Eh a EAE: Me Mel 
D.. 0. MeGulinar. 2500. . 010 0 
Fhe ec lh ee Ee ae ae : ace? ae 
di ae: me. Too. re 010 0 
«Hie fs PEAR Bt Meth bey if 0 5 0 
ay ee oe es. ccm ae oe 
Be es le es kok Oe ke NDE bk: Sek 
Fi: MIMTAIOID.'.'s's'ce ce ake o 6) 
Wh, Viet at coke seas ABE ae: des 
DP SEGRE 3S Ey ee 0 5 O 
G.: Swinburn............. 0 8° 
gonn \araner... 00000": o Bo 
Wy. Sree coc. es me hig fee 0 5 0 
PME, Oo ooo has hee cs 0 5 0 
SB ti eRe 5 0 
SEI Pi se deed beaeet aie 0 5 0 
re ue ie a4 
22 10 0 

Collected by Mr. G. S. Brush. 
Wi EORROE. ive see RS Dial ok 
E. K. Greene..... eueaa vs se oe 
MR QWOAR obi koe cei ees I-09 
Corse & May....+........ 1 §& 0 
RSP rrer te eres s 1 5 0 
M. H. Seymour........... 1 6 0 


aR LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS—Continued. 
OF AIOE iin. o8> sasates dixcd, ( @ (S. Bletohier . wes sideeyy a9 s o..56 96 
G. Seymour Brush.-...... Lh 1 Os 1s ROE: pce c chores 0 5 0 
Ree Oe OO ey sees se 6s 1:45 ,O¢5. DeWitt, jr... ..... eee @ Bx 
Oe WMA os nabs ska sie see's 1 5 0} Wm. Martindale.......... 6 6.0 
SS. Gueplish......06 eae Ty Od OR A 66 6s oo vise 90 whe © DiyO 
Peds de ICY ss. dpinie's oe n'e 10s Gees CODEIDB, » ss se oa sorry perl 
RR GU OTOB. 6 6 Sick 00d voi 2s, BIRR os 1. in sc cosets 0 5.+0 
ee os reir DB Ee RS oa) vidig Wiss 15,6 40 mah 0 @ +0 
PERO AEE ve Sai soe Ac as 1 OP OES yMOOE se sy saree 010 0 
Benj. Davies, M. D........ 1 0 0| ——— 
Boa) ODIs, .....» watts his 1 0 0 35 15-0 
EL, MAUIOY fie vas ne caanaa 015 0 
COON an hab ss o's, wie's 08S ie ne 1 0 3] Collected by Mr. R. S. Oliver 
Rev. ¢. McLoud......05«» 1-5 1@ 
M; K.,Dickingon.......... 0.15 .O¢ John Brodie. ...... sweets @ 5.0 
Gy BaStiesiy sy ce 4 v8: OB Cbd. PO DaArNs soo ss sas oh @ 15 .;0 
Oa BOGS o's scan 0's sigan aD 70 | SA MIOPs 3s b's NF CR He 0 5 0 
gel bps 5 DICER ERR gas REN O25 + Ob We BOyNe. ss scene nense se G.. o.°9 
A #riend’........ Lidge "bite ae. Olid: CO Becket, oo 555s weenie 0 5.0 
MEME PO OEIO 60's sain nie wep se oye | as MMO ass oe « aie sea 62:4 in 010 O 
AW pDOTTOR e iace's's o 6 eens Fae AME ee EE cb ss eck ak ae ee 7 > 2 
Bi W GDOTWID 03.6 oe esis 010 0} W.Smith......... nk og ll 0 5.0 
ORs. ORUGE.. 66s ain earners s © 16 + Oi Jobn Burns, ... 0.2 00s sens 0 5.0 
RULES svn ss 0 cie's ws WN geld 0 5 0O|J. Hutchison..... ca 6 bie @ 5.°0 
TEER MUAY 05 \o's 4's ‘en ive ahem D 1:0 170 HG AROGGErS..... +++ owt 0 5 0 
CI. oie o'e'nieie oa erase bp ofatalen te RAT OV GUS MIE wie 00 «5,0 ees one the 09 5 0 
CORNEA tn aig esd an aL Peres DE FO hs AORN Co as cas eae 0. 6 0 
Be ese e ee TEs ow oe u's GaP OA IR iis ick bs chin wicincain 0 $m 20 
Wa Hy Bowman... wasn D AD c6@ td. POBRORG ss 00 5 kus cedin o <b ,0 
FOC haere 8 N ine 0 15. 0}A..Robertson........ii6. 0 5 0 
S. R. Warren..........4. FM AS BE BIOs os 4 Kis ndsie'n on sa 0 5 0 
£70 nae rere OD xe AD MON os 64s Ca bass Coaeres 0; 5.70 
bP rae nena e 0.10. O} Ws Ws Morrow,,. . . 00:0 oe, (D0 
CN coer Cai bw 6 ste eT 0-5 vOhJ. Phompgon; . . +++ atime ais 0 5 0 
W, Harrington.......4.:4. AO be), AOR iw bin 0 0's « seme 4 . 0 yp 70 
PD AMIA 6. si vde es cas ae ee ARMM ccs 5 cas ean aie 0,5 0 
BMaOwlutile, cise cvass ss Q 10,-O0},Under.ds...........acvaer,0 19. 9 
WO Da: AMIS . oa odie & depend 0. 5.0 4 
W. Manning..........é6.. 0 5,6 614 9 
! 
Pe 


SUBSCRIPTION LIST 


For defraying the Expenses incurred in connection with 
the recent Convention held at Montreal in June, 


1856. 


Collected by Messrs. CURRY, HALL and CRAWFORD. 


W.R. Hibbard......-+++. » © -O PWo Wickson .g. a... 200 010 0 
James Baylis....+seeeeees 9% O OFT: Ni Wilson .. o2.s...0.- 010 0 
R. S. Oliver ......eeeeeee a OTH A. Nelgon : 7.5. wien cas O23 9 
Benj. Lyman....--.+se+ 2 0 0|Thos. Simpson.......++-- 0 5 0 
BE. Le. Mills... .... ee eeees 110 O| W. Hodgson.........600 0 5 0 
BP, E. Grafton.......+-+0- 110 0|W.McDonnough........- 0 50 
P. Redpath. .......eeeees Bi OPE, DOW ibt. .. Bao skin «0 ooh 0 5 0 
A. Savage... ccsecereeves EB 20 PI Barr yes « ie oye tie oss cee » Of: 5e-O 
J Mlaxtoni.ssces Vr fe co PW: A? Fishers. 40s 65. 4 0 5 0 
Theo, Lyman....... sacce L 6. 0|S8. B. Scott... 2.2.5... poi Ob OO 
Alex. Walker....... wecee L BD OW. OC. Hyatt... ccc een ees 0 5 0 
Claahi. i sb eee S a ss tee 1 6 OO) We Miipy 0. os 002, Oe BO 
T) SA PORE ec dete eee’ 1 5 .01{C. Nichols..... ae die hi 0 5 O 
Mrs. Plimsoll........0+-: 1S. “OEDee Reddy. ....-- 5 y te ona 10) 5-0 
Geo. Childs... 6. accuees 1 0 O|J. P.Cleghorn.........-. 0 5 0 
John Dougall............ 1 0.0) W. W. Morrow........+- mw. Oe GeO 
N.S. Whitney........+-- 1 0 O!J. Walker........seseees Oj}; 3°:9 
C. Alexander........se0. 1 0 O|d. W. Baylis: ....cceeeene 0; 2.6 
Lockhart & Louson....... 1 0 0) W. PBS | 4 fsck exten? ote OF Bus 
H.K. Greene.......cee0> 1 0 GAjex Clark... genie. s sige Oo; 2..6 
B.S. Curry...scsceseees 010 0O| Jas. Whitham.........+6. 04 2.6 
J. Torrance, jr....-....+. 0 10 0O|} G, BeMuir....cccccccaees 0: 2% 6 
Mr. Jeffrey ......- ere 010 O|Jdos. Currigan........ee0 Q¢ ks 
TP Ark... occa dna nee 010 O ——_— 
James Henderson...... seo: 28: a 35; kk 3 
4 


24 


“ASNU “S “OND 
‘NOLXVIO SHAVE “L 


4991109 PUNOJ puy poyipny 


9 €1 T “crttrteseeeeserginsvelL onp suvleg 


61 0% See seesegceees** JQINSBDAY, 
OF cee --p£og pus doystH SOSSIT 


Case dee esp? (ogee ” 


eee 


* 


“'** pIBITeg “sIjf 
* SA EUGIONT yy 
ne’ UOWerly) 4 
ne ROTO 3 
"2" PANO ny 


OL GL “tt ttt 8889 ** GOBAOIG 5, 


oe ee ” 


g 12 Se et ee ee te ” 


Z EO rrrresessse ess prsqqry ‘AW £q poyeTjog 
pe Ep eel Cans +0 + +e eae [enuuy 4% pazd9]109 
¢ €1¢ tereeeeeeesoccscecoss nigday SB] WOT, GOUTCq OF, 


6 LL 602F 
8 Fl SIZ 
FP 
0 
7a SS: 
166 °° 
Mi 2.2. 
0. O1.61 4° 
Ss 2) ee 
s vis 
0 
0 SI aE ° 
0 
6 
6 91. 9°": 


od 


6 LI 680F 


O OL TL ‘cr terre ttre ss sess Support oy uosT M Uyor preg 
F 9L G *8°"*****810}JD9T[OH WoT peatooel oq 03 yos QuNOTLW 
8 0 EB “°**s****** SMLOOY Jo sasuedxoe v1oUEd Jo JVC, 
Qh O Trttteeseete see eeeeseeseeeeeeeees gorge ,, 
6 G Agtrrr reteset Areypes Jo yunogov uo ‘Losseyy “AT 
0 G 0¢ so eeereeese s+ BOrT JO DOUBTEG “beg 20d ‘Vv a ss 
9 ZIT “cr tttrsereessess Sunsep [enuuy jo osuedxe pisg 


pS F 


] 


se 


"9G8I ‘81 “AON—GNQOA NOISSIW ALIO 


= * —— 


EAR SE SSE TES SE ESS DAL IE ETD I NE SCAT FTN 


‘LIANSDILT, YRUN JUNOIIP Ut UOLBWIDOSSP UDISILYD SUa_T FUNOX poasquopy 


25 


; "HSA “S OUD 


. 5 ‘JOoLI00 PUNO} Pus pojIpny 
‘NOLXVTIO SHAVE ‘L 
eee or ene era ee 
€ I 6&IF € I 6SlF 
¢g OL G oo 3 eg. 5 oot es SOINNUELT. enp sdUuRTVg y 0 


oy oc.omr* S20» SE ses a) ses See ‘eourimsuy ys] 

‘Doom suoy Surpnyour ‘suooy jo sosuedxy perouoy) 
ce he #9 © OP aE SD Se FS ORs 5+ ee * 8 e * Coeee 61n406'] 
$7 ees a a ee eee ‘4un0008B 

uornueauog ‘A19N0T eg ‘BunuTg Surpnyour ‘serzpung 
QZ ttt ret eceeseeeees somata 203 syunosoe Ampang 
OL 8 ccrtesteees*-niodoy 4SB] 48 Jomseery, onp eouvieg 
ps F 


“UNO NOLLVIOOSSV 


8 0 &€@% puny UorssI__ 0} posavyo sosuodxe [vised JO AJOIOPY 
€ I g€ Worussuoy jo sosuedxy jeroods Avazop 0} MOT}ODTION | {T 0 
FOL SI EG: We tet te Keo 8 ae oan ce eo ome sgeNIOR “JO GPO Tay -¢ 
0 OL Zz Te NS t SP RA8 M0 cle om9.9 eee * & STOR CONOOG! MIGUUION 
0 0 Op *rtttttsteteeseeeees+nieuog 9.09%] JO 07%} z 0 


“Sq JO Junodoe uo “bsy 4an0p seuve WO postoooy | ¥¢ 
‘Dos F 


CONSTITUTION. 


bee eos ER 


ARTICLE I. 


This Society shall be called “THe Monrreat Youne 
‘Men’s Curistian ASSOCIATION AND City Mission.” 


ARTICLE IT. 


Its objects shall be—the 7ve/¢gious and mental improvement 
of its members, especially in connection with the study of 
the Scriptures—the union of young men, of various Churches 
in this and other plans of usefulness—and the providing of 
means by which young men, coming as strangers into the 
city, may be brought under religious influences among their 
own class. 

ARTICLE III. 


This Association adopts, as the basis of all its proceedings, 
those fundamental principles of Evangelical Christianity, on 
which all Orthodox Protestant Churches are agreed, and will 
never admit any intermeddling with those matters of Faith 
and Polity on which such Churches differ. 


ARTICLE IV. 


Any young man under forty years of age, who is a member 
in good standing of an Evangelical Church in this city, may 
become an Active Member. Active members only have the 
right to yote,and be eligible to office ; and it shall be their 
particular duty to carry out the objects of this Association. 
Any young man of good moral character may become an 
Associate Member, and shall be entitled to all the privileges 
of the Association, except that of voting and being eligible 
to office. Any Associate Member who shall unite with an 
Evangelical Church, becomes thereby an active member of this 
Association, due notice thereof being given to the Secretary. 
Members may be proposed and accepted at any meeting 
of the Association or of the Committee. All elections shall 
be by ballot. Any person duly qualified may become a Life 
Member of this Association by paying Twenty-five dollars 
to the general fund, at any one time. Persons may become 


Honorary Members. The Association shall have power to 


expel members. 
ARTICLE V.. 


The annual subscription to this Association shall be one. 


dollar per annum to be paid on being received into Mem- 
bership, and during the month of November in each subse- 
quent year. 


27 


ARTICLE VI. 


The Officers of the Association shall be—a President, 
Vice-Presidents, a Treasurer, a Recording Secretary, a Cor- | 
responding Secretary, and a Committee of Twelve, to be 
elected annually from the members—five to form a quorum. 


ARTICLE VII. 


An Annual Meeting shall be held in the month of Novem- 
ber, to receive the Report of the Officers and elect their suc- 
cessors. 

ARTICLE Vii. 

All meetings of the Association and Committee shall be 

opened and closed with prayer. 


ARTICLE IX. 


This Constitution shall not be altered, except at an Annual 
Meeting, or at a Special Meeting, to be held at the call of the 
Committee, and by the vote of two-thirds of the Members 


present. 


BY-LAWS. 


ARTICLE I. 
MEMBERSHIP. 


1. Applicants for membership must be proposed by a mem- 
ber of the Association. All such proposals shall be made in 
writing, and shall contain the name in full, the residence, the 
church of which the applicant’is a member, and, if nota 
church-membex, the congregation he is connected with. It 
shall also be signed by the proposer. 

2. Honorary members shall be proposed at a regular meet- 
ing, and shall be received as members by motion, if carried 
by a majority of two-thirds of the members present. Art. 
V. of Constitution not to apply to Honorary members. 

3. The members shall seek out young men taking up their 
residence in the city, endeavor to bring them under moral © 
and religious influences, and by every means in the power 
to surround them with Christian associates. Members shall 
also exert themselves to interest the churches to which they 
respectively belong, in the objects and welfare of the Associ- 
ation. They shall labor to induce all suitable young men of 
their acquaintance to connect themselves with the Association 
—and use all practicable means for increasing its member- 
ship, activity, and usefulness. 


\ 


\ 


28 


ARTICLE TI. 
OFFICERS. 

1. It shall be the duty ofthe President to preside at all 
business meetings of the Association and Committee, and to 
preserve in strict exercise the rules established by parliament- 
ary order. In the absence of the President, the senior 
Officer present shall preside, Devotional meetings may be 
presided over by any Active Member of the Association. 

2. The duties of the Recording Secretary shall be to keep 
a full and complete register of the names, residence, and 
church of each member. He shall attend all meetings, and 
keep a correct record of the proceedings thereat, and notify 
all officers and members of their election. 

3. The Corresponding Secretary shall, under the direction 
of the Committee, have charge of the correspondence of the 
Association. He shall keep copies of all letters written, and 
files of those received by him, relating to the affairs of the 
Association. He shall also present a written report of the 
Association at the annual meeting. 

4. The Treasurer shall receive all monies due the Associ- 
ation, and disburse the same under the direction of the 
Committee. He shall keep a full and correct account of his 
transactions, and report to the Committee when so required 
and to the Association at its annual meeting. 

5. The Committee shall have the general management of 
the Association, and shall report monthly to the Associa- 
tion. 

ARTE nh Berry. 
STANDING COMMITTEES. 

1. The Standing Committees, who shall be subject to the 
General Committee, shall be—a Committee on Rooms and 
Library ; a Committee on Lectures, Essays and Debates ; a 
Committee on Bible Classes; a Finance Committee and a 
Mission Committee. These Committees shall be appointed 
by the President from the General Committee. They shall 
be subject to, and shall report to each monthly meeting 
of, the General Committee. ‘The President and Recording 
Secretary shall be ez officio members of each standing Com- 
mittee. 

2. ‘The Committee on Rooms anil Library shall consist of 
three members who shall attend to the Rooms of the Associ- 
ation, and see that they are kept in good order. This Com- 
mittee shall also arrange for the proper distribution of the 
books in the Library, and use all available means for its 
increase and preservation. 


29 


8. The Committee on Bible classes, to consist of three 
members, shall have eharge of all Bible classes connected 
with the Association, and shall make all arrangements to 
their efficient working. | 

4.. The Committee on Lectures, Essays and Debates, to 
consist of three members, shall provide for the delivery of 
lectures or sermons; shall prepare subjects for essays, de- 
bates, or conversation ; engage members to take part in the 
meetings of the Association, prepare a programme of each 
meeting, and cause it to be announced at least one week be- 
fore such meeting is held. 

5. The Finance Committee, to consist:of three members 
shall devise means for obtaining necessary funds for the As- 
sociation, and shall examine and approve all accounts refer- 
red to them by the General Committee previous to their pay- 
ment by the Treasurer. The Treasurer shall be an ex officio 
member of this Committee. 

6. The Mission Committee shall consist of five members, 
and it shall be their duty to superintend the City Mission, 
render all possible aid to the Missionary or Missionaries, and 
use all the means in their power to promote the success of 
the Mission, and to extend its usefulness. 

7. The President shall also nominate a Committee on Member- 
ship, to consist of a Chairman, who shall be a member of the Gen- 
eral Committee ; and not less than ten Active Members of the 
Association, selected from each church, in which there are members 
belonging to the Association. It shall be the duty of each mem- 
ber of this Committee to make himself acquainted with the young 
men in his particular congregation, especially strangers, and invite 
them to become members of the Association. He shall report on 
all applications for membership, referred to him. He shall convey 
to new members their certificates of election, and cards of member- 
ship, collect their dues, and labor to induce them to attend the reg- 
ular meetings of the Association. He shall also, when called upon 
notify the members of special meetings. It shall be the duty of 
the Chairman to see that each member of this Committee fulfils 
~ his duties. The Chairman shall also report the labors of his asso- 

ciates to the General Committee. 


Ate. Ge iy. 
MEETINGS. 
1. The Committee shall meet for business on,the seeond 
Monday of each month—five to form a quorum. ; 
2. Meetings of the Association for reading of essays, for 
debates, conversation on religious subjects, devotional exer- 
cises, or lectures, shall be held as often as practicable during 


30 


_ Winter, commencing with November. As far as practicable, 
meetings shall commence at 8 o’clock, and close at 10, 

3. The business of the Association shall be transacted at 
any regular meeting of the Association, 

4. Special meetings of the Committee may be called at 
the option of the President, or at the request of three mem- 
bers of the Committee. Special meetings of the Association 
Shall be held at the written request of ten members, or at 
the option of the President. 

0. Any officer or member of Committee absenting himself © 
from three consecutive regular meetings of the Committee, 
without a sufficient reason, shall vacate his office. All vacan- 
eies shail be filled by the Committee. 


RULES OF ORDER. 


| GENERAL MEETINGS. 

1, The time to be occupied in the reading of an Essay 
shall not exceed twenty minutes. 

2. First and second speakers on a Debate shall not exceed 
fifteen minutes each; other speakers shall not exceed ten 
minutes each. | 

3. The first speaker shall have the right to close the De- 
bate, but shall not exceed ten minutes in doing so. 

4. The merits of a question shall be decided by the vote 
of the members. 

BUSINESS MEETINGS. 

1, Reading minutes of previous meeting. 

2. Balloting for election of candidates proposed at a former 
meeting. | 

3. Completion of unfinished business. 

4, Receiving reports. 

5. Taking up new business. 

6. It shall be in order at any time, when there is no mo- 
tion pending, to propose persons for membership, or to suggest 
subjects for inquiry. | | 

7. The vote of at least two-thirds of the members present 
shall be necessary to constitute a majority. 

ALTERATION OF BY-LAWS. 

These By-Laws and Rules of Order may be altered or 
amended after one month’s notice of such proposed alteration 
or amendment has been made. Notice of such proposed al- 
teration or amendment to be placed in some conspicuous part 
of the room of the Association until the meeting at which 
such motion shall be brought forward. The motion failing to 
be brought forward, a new motion will be necessary. 


LIST OF MEMBERS. 


a 


HONORARY MEMBERS. 


Baynes, W Craig Esq MA 
Bond, Rev William 


Campbell, Rev AD 
Court James 


Davidson, David | 
Davies, Rev Benjamin L LD 
Dawson, Professor J W 
Dawson, Andrew 

Dougall, John 

Fraser, Rev Donald MA 
Inglis, Rev David 

Jeffers, Rev Wellington 
Kemp, Rev A F 


Leeming, Joseph 


ACTIVE MEMBERS. 


Lillie, Rev James D D 


McLoud, Rev John 
Marling, Rev F H 


Mathieson, Rev Alexander D D 
Milne James 


Paton, Laird 

Sanderson, Rev J E 
Snodgrass, Rev William 
Stone, Rev Alfred 
Taylor, Rev William D D 
Wenham, Joseph 
Werner, Rev George 
Wilkes, Rev Henry DD 


Young, Rev George 


Addy, M 

Addy, 8 

Akin, James 
Alexander, Charles 
Auger, Louis 


Ballard, Henry jr 
Barry, John 
Bassett, S M 
Baylis, James) 
Bentley, David 
Bertram, Alexandar 
Brewster, Benjamin 
Brown, Frank 
Brush, George S 
Burpee, Rev. A 
Burry, Robert 


Campbell, John 
Chapman, George 
Childs, George 
Childs, S D 
Clark, F A 
~Clark, J P 
Clarke, Alexander 
Claxton, T James 
Clendinnen, William 
Cleghorn J P 
Coleman Richard 
Connor, W 


* Deceased. 


Cooper, W 
Cowan, Alexander 
Craig, A 
Crawford, George 
Currigan, Joseph 
Curry BS 

Curry, SE 

Cyr, Rev N 


Dewitt, Jacob 

Dickson, William 
* Donald, George 
Dunbar, William 


English, § 
Fletcher, John 


Gardner, Robert 
Grafton, Francis E 
Greene, HE K 

* Greenfield James 
Gurd, J 


Halliday, James 
Halliday, Andrew 
Hall, James 

Hall, Richard 
Hall, William 
Hamilton, John 


Hamilton, M 
Hamilton, William 
Hamilton, JG 

Hart, Alexander 
Hemming, H 
Henderson, James H 
Hibbard, WR 


- Hodgson, William 


Holland Richard 
Holme, Thomas 
Hyatt, W C 


Irwin, Robert 


Jeffrey, James 
Jeffrey, W H 
Johnson, William 


Kay; Frederick W 
Knox, James 


Learmont, Joseph 
Leeming, Thomas 
Lewis, John 
Little, Thomas 
Louson, John 
Luttrell, Richard 
Lyman, Theodore 
Lee, Thos 


McAdam, James 
McCormick, William jr 
McDougall, Robert 
McDunnough, W 
McGibbon, Alexander 
Mc Millan Donald 
McMillan, David 
Massey, Samuel 

May, George 
Matthews, Richard 
Miller,. Robert 

Miller, Adam jr 
Milloy, Alexander 
Mills, Mason 

* Milne, William G 
Morrow, William W 
Muir, William 

Muir, George B 

Muir James 

Murphy, John 


Nelson, H A 


32 
Nicholson, Robert 
Oliver, Robert S 
Pearson, George B 


Reddy, Dr 

Robb, William 
Rodden, William 
Rutherford, William 


Sargison, George 
Savage, Albert 
Scott; 5 B. «. 
Seymour, Charles 
Stavely Robert 
Swale Joseph Lyon 


Taylor, T M 
Taylor, E T 
Taylor, J W 
Tees, David 


Tees Joseph 
Torrance, John jr 
TuckerS |. 
Turner, Albert 


Piel ™% 
Walker, James 
Wark, David 
Warner John 
Warnock, John 
Whitney. NS 
Whitam, James 
Watts, Rev J O 
Wilcockson, Edward 
Williams, Rev Jas N 
Wilson, Theodore N 
Winn; J H 
Wood, Peter W 
Wright, Edward 


Young, George 


ASSOCIATE MEMBERS 


Baker. Edwin 
Bassett, Albert 
Baylis, J G 
Becket, Robert A 
Blair. David W 
Brown, Robert 
Browne, Thomas R 
Burnett, Samuel H 
Burns, D P 


Campbell, Kenneth 
Carmichael, James 
Carron, Charles 
Clarke, J T 
Claxton Francis 


Dow, Robert 
Drake, James M 
Drummond, Henry 


Evans, Hugh 


Farie, James 
Filer, Samuel 
Fisher, John 


ee 


* Deceased. 


Fisher. Ww A 
Flint, William 


Gatehouse, J M 
Grinton, J C 


Hoerner, Louis 
Hughes, L M 
Jamieson, R C 
Jennings, § 


Krause, G F 
Kyte, Thomas W 


Lockhart, R 


McDonald, J C 
McFarlane, Francis 
McKinnon, John 
McLauchlin, John 
McLea, James 
McNaughton, James 


Marsh, Thomas E 
Maxwell, Archibald 


Moody, Horace 
Mullan, James 
Murray, J 


Nichols, Charles 


Paxton, J 
Poe, David A 


Reid, James 
Reid, Thomas 
Rielle, Joseph 
Rintoul, WH. 


Simpson, Thomas 
Spiers, J 
Stevenson, Alex Allan 


Taylor, Wm Hamilton 
Tindale, , William 
Turner, D 


Watson, Alexander 
Watts, A A 
Wilson, John 


