438th 
Annual Report 


~ Young Mews. 7 


Christian Association Hl 


: of Montreal. 


1888-85. _ 


CONDITIONS OF MEMBERSHIP. 


Membership is divided into Two classes : ; 
 Active—A member of an Evangelical Church. 


Associate —Over : years of fee: ‘Good moral character. | 


Active ae Associate (without Evening Classes), — $2.00 — 


Full Ticket (including Evening Classes), OSs hike a 3 


- Junior’s Ticket, Ace ee ees ae i 27 Bo 
Life Member's Ticket, ones aoe oi ese =» 100.00 | 


YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION 


OF ON toes Li, 


THIRTY-EIGHTH 


ANNUAL REPORT 


PRESENTED MAY 28th, 1889. 


OFFICERS OF THE ASSOCIATION, 1889-90. 


PRESIDENT. 
D. W. ROSS. 


VICE-PRESIDENT. 
ABNER KINGMAN. 


TREASURER. 
L. H. PACKARD. 


SECRETARY. 
D. A. BUDGE. 


BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 


Term expires May rst, 1890. 


ABNER KINGMAN, ROBERT HENDERSON, 
JOHN KENNEDY, © CHARLES CUSHING, 
GEORGE LAMB, DAVID YUILE, 


R. H. BUCHANAN. 


Term expires May 1st, 18912. 


WARDEN KING, R. HENRY HOLLAND. 

L.. H. PACKARD, SETH P. LEET, 

W. GODBEE BROWN, Dr. F. W. KELLEY, 
H. J. MUDGE. 


Term expires May rst, 1892. 


GEORGE HAGUE, WALTER PAUL, 
D. BENTLEY, FRED MEYERS, 
D. W. Ross, A. R. WIGHTMAN, 


JOHN MURPHY. 


ADVISORY DIRECTORS. 
Term expires May rst, 1890. 


CHAS. T. WILLIAMS. 


Term expires May 1st, 1891. 
J. MurRRAY SMITH, WILLIAM TEES. 


Term expires May rst, 1892. 
C. W. DAVIS, GEO. E. JAQUES. 


COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD, 1889-90. 


[Committees have power to add to their number. ] 


NEW BUILDING. 
JOHN KENNEDY, Chairman. 


Warden King, Geo. Hague, R. H. Holland, 
Abner Kingman, D. W. Ross, L. H. Packard, 
David Yuile, Dr. F. W. Kelley, D. Bentley, 
Charles Cushing, J. Murray Smith.» 
EXECUTIVE, 
R. H. HOLLAND, Chazrman. 
D. Bentley, Abner Kingman, Robt. Henderson, 
Seth P. Leet, D. W. Ross, L. H. Packard. 
FINANCE. 
DAVID YUILE, Chazrman. 
L. H. Packard, Warden King, John Murphy, 
Wm. Tees, W. Godbee Brown, Robt. Henderson, 
H. B. Ames, A. G. Olive. 


LECTURES AND CLASSES. 
Cuas. T. WILLIAMS, Chazrman. 


Chas. Cushing, John Kennedy, Dr. W. G. Stewart, 
Geo. S. Rorke, James T. McCall, Chas. Brown, 
R. McNabb, W.H. Chapman. 


ROOMS AND LIBRARY. 
Dr. F. W. KELLEY, Chairman. 


Chas. T. Williams, Seth P. Leet, R. A. Dunton 
A. R. Wightman, Waa Castle, J. H. Cayford, 
Chas. Anderson, John Ogilvy, H. A. Moulton 
T. E. ‘Vasey. 
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT. 
PeRcY C. LESLIE, Chatrman. 

W. Godbee Brown, Geo. Lyman, Joseph Gawne, 
Walter E. Cushing, Geo. C. Wells, Fred Sharpe, 
A. E. Bignell, H. G. Pangman, Harry S. Shaw, 
James Muir, Jr., F. Howard Wilson, O. C. Pangman, 
James Ereaux, J. Ernest Millen, Percy Cushing. 


VACANCIES. 
ROBT. HENDERSON, Chairman. 
Walter Paul, Dr. F. W. Kelley, W. Godbee Brown. 


VISITING THE ROOMS. 
September.—William Tees, Fred Meyers. 
October. —Charles Cushing, John Kennedy. 
November.—Warden King, L. H. Packard. 
December.—Dr. F. W. Kelley, R. Henry Holland. 
January.—Abner Kingman, David Yuile. 
February.—D. Bentley, Robert Henderson. 
March.—W. Godbee Brown, H. J. Mudge. 
April.—R. H. Buchanan, A. R. Wightman. 
May.—Chas. T. Williams, Seth P. Leet. 


COMMITTEES OF THE ASSOCIATION, 1889-90. 


[Committees have power to add to their number. ] 


YOUNG MEN’S BUILDING FUND. 
D. A. BupGE, Chazrman. 
H. B. Ames, 
W. S. Russell, 
Alex. Arthur, 
Hugh B. Cowper, 


John W. Ross, 

J. S. Hetherington, 
Geo. S. Rorke, 
Wm. Law, 

J. M. Campbell, 


Stewart Muirhead, 

James Wilson, 

R. L. Charlton, 

Alex. Murray, Jr. 

Robt. Greig. 
MEMBERSHIP. 

Wo. TEES, Chairman. 


Alex. Arthur, 
J. F. Wildman, 


Jacob Lyons, 
A. G. Ridgeway, 


Wm. Sloan, 
Chas. J. Verity, Secretary. 


YOUNG MEN’S MEETING. 
J. M. CAMPBELL, Chazrman. 


Geo. S. Rorke, 
R. McMurtrie, 
W. S. Russell, 


James Wilson, 
W. T. Walmsley, 
J. Ernest Millen, 


John J. Sloan, 
J. R. Terrill, 
W. Y. Reid, 


Fred Meyers, 
J. C. Verity, 
J. Dumaresq, 


T. J. Vipond, 
A. G. Ridgeway, 
A. N. Webster. 


SUNDAY MORNING BIBLE CLASS. 
Joun W. Ross, Chairman. 


Alex. Murray, Jr., 
A. G. Ridgeway, 


Clifford Ascah, 
Harry E. Mason, 
Alex. Arthur, Secretary. 


YOUNG MEN’S BIBLE CLASS. 
FRANK P. RITCHIE, Chazrman. 


H. D. Paterson, Arthur B. Ross, 
Hugh B. Cowper, James Dennison, 
Wm. Law, 


Wm. J. Wright, Secretary. 


R. Terrill, 

G. Darling, 
W. Burnie, 
W. Houston, 


y; 
}: 
G. 
R. 
D. R. Rough, 


David R. Rough, 
Chelsey Woods, 
W. T. Walmsley, 


Wm. Lemesurier, 
Amos Durman, 
E. McBride, 
Norman Fraser, 
Wm. King, 
Wm. J. Miller, 


Geo. Lamb, 


R. H. Buchanan, 


Harry Bragg, 
Jas. Allardice, 


W. C. Hibbard, 


Geo. W. Jones, 
S. R. Burrell, 


RECEPTION 
R. L. CHARLTON, Chairman. 
Geo. D. McMartin, 
Wm. McCausland, 
Arthur B. Ross, 
J. F. Wildman, 
W. E. Ward, 
Geo. F. Paterson, 


SOCIAL WORK. 
Jas. WILSON, Chairman. 
A. E. Bignell, 


Jas. B. Patterson, 
H. A. Barnard, 


INVITATION. 
STEWART MUIRHEAD, Chazrman. 


Geo. Sloan, Clifford Ascah, 
Chas. Walker, John Hewitt, 

Harry Butteriss, Kristen Borup, 
Geo. Simpson, E. J. Williams, 
John J. Sloan, H. J. Hayson, 
H. D. Paterson, 


John Adams, 
Chas. McAdam, 
Wm. J. Wright, 
Geo. Fisk, 

S. R. Burrell. 


G. A. Irwin, 
J. Ritchie Bell, 


VISITATION OF THE SICK. 
T. DUNCAN PATTON, Chairman. 


J. S. Hetherington, Chelsey Woods. 
Wm. Sloan, 


MISSION. 
SETH P. LEET, Chairman. 
J. H. Cayford, 
Wm. Law, 


Geo. S. Rorke. | 


LITERARY. 
H. B. AMEs, Chazrman. 
W. A. Doig, 
Arthur Bell, 
W. S. Smith, 


Robt. Greig. 


FOREIGN MISSIONS. 
Rost. McCMuRTRIE, Chazrman. 

J. G. Darling, 

S. Muirhead, Secretary, 


ATHLETIC. 
JOHN J. LoMAX, Chairman. 
Arthur Bell, 
John W. Ross, 
Fred Sharpe, 


R. Christenson. 


Chas. King, 
Jacob Lyons. 


Wm. Law, Secretary. 


J. Thompson Smith, Sec. 


Geo. M. McGregor, 


~The 38th Annual Meeting of this Association was held on Tuesday evening, the 
28th May. 

The Board of Directors and Committeemen, numbering one hundred and eighteen 
out of one hundred and twenty-eight on the roll, sat down to luncheon at 6.30 o’clock. 

After luncheon short addresses were delivered by the President, Mr. D. W. Ross, 
Mr. Abner Kingman, Vice-President, Mr. L. H. Packard, Treasurer, Mr. George 
Hague, Rev. Archdeacon Evans, Mr. Wm. A. Doig and Mr. Chas. T. Williams. 

At eight o'clock the Annual Business Meeting assembled in the Association 
parlor, which was crowded with members. The President occupied the chair. Mr. 
W. G. Charnock, Secretary Young Men’s Christian Association, Vancouver, led in 
prayer. We add in detail the reports which were submitted to the meeting. 


ELECTION OF DIRECTORS.—Mr. Robt. Henderson made the following nomi- 
nation of seven Directors to replace those who retire this year. Messrs. Geo. Hague, 
Walter Paul, D. Bentley, D. W. Ross, John Murphy, Fred Meyers, A. R. Wightman. 
No other nominations being presented by the members, at the request of the meeting 
Mr. Packard cast one ballot declaring their election. 

The President nominated as Auditors Messrs. George Creak and John B. Picken. 

On motion of Mr. Packard, the thanks of the Association were tendered to Mr. 
Arthur G. Olive for the assistance and supervision rendered in keeping the accounts 
and books of the Association during the year. 

Moved by Mr. Kennedy, seconded by Mr. Holland, that the thanks of the 
Association be presented to the publishers of the Wetness, Star, Gazette, and Herald, 
for the very valuable assistance they have rendered the work through their cordial and 
friendly notices. 

Moved by Mr. Meyers, seconded by Dr. Kelley, that the thanks of this Associa- 
tion be tendered to Messrs. John Dougall & Son, publishers of the Dazly Wetness, 
for gratuitous advertising of the religious work of the Association during the year. 

Moved by Dr. Kelley, seconded by Mr. Seth P. Leet, that the reports as 
presented be adopted and printed for circulation amongst the members. 


RHPORTS: OF; Gal boBOARD. 


GENERAL SECRETARY’S REPORT. 


The recent Philadelphia Convention and the International 
Secretaries’ Conference at Orange, N.J., clearly indicated the 
lines and methods of work now being pursued by the Associa- 
tions on this continent. Let us note the prominent points :— 

The extension of the work amongst the young men of the 
Orient ; 

Responsibility concerning the non-English speaking young 
men in our cities ; 

Responsibility for the work in the outlying villages, which send 
the majority of their young men to the cities ; 

Greater thoroughness in Bible Study ; 

The power of the Association Library ; 

The work amongst Railway employes ; 

The Buildings of the future to be wholly for the use of the 
Association work ; 

The influence of the Association upon the social life of young 
men ; 

The subordination of all agencies to the spiritual work ; 

The prominent Christian business men from all sections of the 
Church who are both supporting and personally engaged in 
the work. 

In presenting the past year’s record of the work in this city, 
we naturally ask—lIs it developing on a line with the work on the 
whole field in regard to those elements which lead to permanent 
erowth? Let us see.— 

(1.) “In securing a central Building, fully equipped for the 

work?” Yes. 


8 


(2.) “In work for young men of Heathen lands?” Yes. 
(3.) “In greater thoroughness in Bible Study?” Yes. 


(4.) “In subordination of all agencies to the spiritual work ?” 
Yes. 

(5.) “The power of the Association Library?” Yes. 

(6.) “Responsibility for non-English speaking young men?” 
No. We should havea French Branch and Secretary. 

(7.) “Responsibility for work in outlying villages?” No. 
There are at least a dozen villages and towns in the 
vicinity of Montreal which should have a visit from 
two or more delegates during the year. 

(8.) “ The work amongst Railway employés?” No. There 
must be 4,000 or 5,000 Railway men centred in 
Montreal. We are in the rear of almost every Rail- 
way centre in undertaking this work. 

(9.) “ The adaptability and influence of the Association upon 
the Social life of young men?” Yes, in some meas- 
ure, but failure in organized efforts. 

The board of Directors will do well to immediately consider 
these points wherein our work fails to keep in step with the 
general movement. 

THE NEW BUILDING. 

The special work of the past year has been the preparations 
necessary for the erection of the New Building. These have 
occupied a large portion of your Secretary’s time and effort. 
On May 4th, 1888, the Deed was signed transferring to the 
Association the beautiful site on Dominion Square. A Building 
Committee was selected with great care. They resolved to meet 
every Thursday morning at 9 am., for prayer and conference, 
with three special requests, viz. ; 

(1.) That their decisions might be unanimous ; 


(2.) That the labor of canvassing for funds and the gifts 
donated might be a spiritual blessing to all concerned ; 

(3.) That the Building might be erected to the glory of God 
and for the young men of the city, free of debt. 


9 


Thus far the first and second requests have been graciously 
answered, and we are confidently expecting the third to be 
fulfilled. The financial co-operation of every member is solicited 
in this enterprise. No matter how small the donation let it be 
placed on record at once. It must be of special interest to the 
membership to know that the plans—both as regards the interior 
arrangement of rooms and the elevation are considered by 
prominent Association men to be superior to any other Associa- 
tion Building. 


THE FIELD. 


The membership of the Association has the first claim upon 
its attention. At the close of the year it numbered 1,065. 
During the past year an effort was made to have each Associate 
member called upon by members of the working Committees in 
connection with the various meetings. This was only partially 
successful. It should be renewed under the direction of the 
Membership Committee in some more systematic and organized 
form. 


The merchants and citizens who so freely and liberally con- 
tribute toward the support of this work form a part of the field 
2,000 copies of our “ Association Record” are issued each month 
giving details of the work. These are mailed regularly to mem- 
bers and subscribers, and an intelligent interest is thereby created 
on the part of the merchants and citizens who do not come in 
personal contact with the work in any other way. 


The brightest section of the field, however, and one already 
white to the harvest, seems to be the mass of boys and youths 
who are fast passing into manhood. A distinct Junior Depart- 
ment has been organized during the year, with separate member- 
ship books and separate Committees. Its membership now 
numbers 229, but this field is practically unlimited. A tremen- 
dous responsibility lies at the door of the Association as to the 
issue. Hundreds of anxious parents are looking on. Shall this 
bright life be for Christ or for Satan? The adaptability of our 


IO 


methods to the needs of this class is such that the Directors are 
called upon to make the most ample provision for this Depart- 
ment. The future Directors of the Association are here now, and 
the future contributors, so are the future General Secretaries. 
Within the past five years three graduates from the Boys’ Meet- 
ing have become Secretaries, and another has the matter under 
consideration and will likely enter within a year. 


A great mass of stranger young men arriving from other lands 
are reached by means of the Employment Bureau, Boarding 
House Register, Strangers’ Tea, and the various Religious Meet- 
ings. A careful estimate has been made, showing that an attend- 
ance of over 320 per day, or 100,160 young men during the year, 
have made use of the Building and its privileges, apart from 
attendance at the various meetings. The time of one of the 
Assistant Secretaries is largely devoted to this work, and in 
hundreds of cases we have assurance of the best results following 
the timely counsel, advice and warning given to young men when 
beginning lifein a new land. While more has been accomplished 
than in previous years, a better system is still required for the 
introduction of new members and strangers to the city churches. 
Dr. Deems, of the Church of the Strangers in New York city, 
estimates that there are 25,000 persons in that city with their 
church letters lying in the bottom of their trunks. In this city 
the number of young men who on first arrival drift from one 
church to another, and finally give up church attendance 
altogether, is alarmingly on the increase. The perfecting of a 
better system in dealing with the Associate members when they 
first join, and the strangers whom we meet through the various 
Agencies, in order to secure their immediate introduction to the 
Church, should receive the first attention of the new Committee. 


Montreal is a distributing point, especially for young men. 
Every year a large number go to western cities. It has been 
our endeavor to follow these members by correspondence, keep- 
ing up a personal interest in them until finally located in some 
other Association or Church work. ‘This demands considerable 
time, but is, we think, justified by the results. 


ee a ee eee. 


II 


Apart from the work in the Building, as above indicated, the 
visitation of sick young men throughout the city and in the 
hospitals, and the distribution of tracts amongst the seamen, as 
well as the special Evangelistic work amongst the volunteers in 
our Militia Camp, add to the breadth and length of the field in 
which the Association labors. 


THE AGENCIES. 


The Agencies employed in this field are four; the Social, 
Physical, Educational and Religious, 


SOCIAL. 


The Building, of course, forms the central point. The final 
aim of the Association work is the development of Christian 
character, and the leading of young men to the knowledge of a 
personal Saviour. Experience proves that the best way to 
accomplish this is not so much by the holding of continual 
meetings as by the daily personal contact of Christian men with 
their fellows. Therefore, the Social life of the Association should 
have the most careful consideration, so as to make the building 
the liveliest and pleasantest as well as the dest place in the whole 
city. Neither should we forget that where we can reach one life 
in the Association, we can reach ten lives out of it. To secure 
the best results from Social work there must be fostered a 
greater spirit of pride and esprzt de corps amongst our members. 
Even in our present limited rooms we can and should have an 
informal social evening once each week, when the officers of the 
Association would be off duty, where new members and strangers 
might be introduced to Committeemen, and where an informal 
programme could be carried out. Advantage should also be 
taken of the annual holidays, to arrange some suitable social 
feature for each, such as Thanksgiving Day, Christmas, Queen’s 
Birthday and Dominion Day. 


The Reception Committee has done better work than in any 
previous year. The Members’ Monthly Meetings have largely 
developed social life. The New Year’s Reception had an 


12 


excellent effect, and the Strangers’ Tea has been an important 
addition. But every Committeeman should throw himself 
heartily into the social life of young men, whether in or out of 
the building, as it is the open door to the hearts of thousands of 
young men whereby you can win them to Christ. 


PHYSICAL. 


The Excelsior Snow Shoe Club continued their weekly tramps 
during the winter. The attendance was better than in previous 
years. The Junior Snowshoers continued their tramps on 
Saturday afternoons, and have planned several outings for this 
summer. 

On account of being unable to secure grounds for practice, it 
has been impossible to organize Football or Lawn Tennis, or 
other outdoor recreations. This department will, of course, 
receive a great stimulus from the opening of the new building. 


EDUCATIONAL. 


This important Agency has continued a permanent feature, 
its chief attractions being our cheerful Reading Room with its 
137 selected papers and magazines, our Library with its 3,000 
volumes, from which 6,927 books have been drawn; our six 
Evening Classes held weekly, with an attendance of 295 ; also, 
a special course of ten lectures on Electricity, which had an 
attendance of over 100 students, and a course of six Practical 
Talks and Lectures, which were well attended. 

For next fall, however, we should have a Type-writing Class 
added to the list, also a larger programme of Practical Talks, 
and the addition of a Literary Society. This last is most 
important in the development of speakers and thinkers, as well 
as systematic readers, and there are a number of our members 
who would be glad to enter such a society for general education 
and development. The new Committee should consider these 
points early in the season. 


RELIGIOUS. 


_ This is the Primary Agency. Young men may be anterestea 
and, no doubt, benefitted through the Social, Educational and 


13 


Physicial Agencies, but unless they are led to a personal 
surrender of their lives to the Lord Jesus Christ they will not be 
permanently influenced, so as to become factors in the future work 
of the Church or the Association. It will be of interest to notice 
that the attendance at our various meetings is about 20 per cent. 
higher than that of Associations of a similar size. 


The Young Men’s Meeting on Saturday evening has always 
been the rallying point for the week’s work. The average 
attendance for the year was 89. At almost every meeting 
young men receive personal counsel in regard to entering the 
Christian life. 


The Classes for Bible Study have increased in attendance 20 
per cent. The Beginners’ Class on Sunday morning now 
averages 5C young men, and the Evangelistic Class, Sunday 
afternoon, 125. Results are apparent at almost every session of 
the classes,—in fact, the Bible Classes are now recognized as most 
important meetings in the leading of men to a decision for 
Christ, as well as for systematic Bible Study. 


The Daily Meeting has been held continuously throughout 
the year, but the attendance has been small. 


The Workers’ Training Class had an excellent session from 
October to April, with an average attendance of 18 members. 


During part of the year a Training Class has been held for 
the Junior Department. The Training Class work is the Agency 
to which the Association must look for the development of 
trained workers. It is our purpose to select two leaders from 
last winter’s Class and put them in charge of separate classes, so 
as to begin three Training Classes next October, planning a 
three months’ course for each instead of six months. This will 
give a large number of members the opportunity they desire for 
personal training in methods of Christian work. 


622 Religious meetings for young men have been held with a 
total attendance of 20,625. Special meetings have been held for 
the promotion of personal purity, which have been followed with 
good results. 


14 


The Invitation Committee has been most active in its aggres- 
sive work, distributing to young men in hotels, restaurants and on 
the streets, 53,000 invitations. 

262 young men have signed the pledge in the office of the 
Secretary during the year. 

A new feature has been added in the form of a Foreign 
Mission Band. Monthly meetings have been held for the 
promotion of Missionary news, and a plan of systematic con- 
tribution adopted whereby $196.23 has been subscribed. The 
object is to develop a Missionary spirit, and finally to support a 
member in the Foreign field. One of the members of the 
Committee has consecrated his life to Foreign Missionary work. 


In addition to these general Agencies there is the daily work 
of the Secretaries in the Building, crowded with opportunities, 
being constantly called upon to give spiritual counsel and advice 
to young men. 

A plan is now being adopted for the placing of personal 
responsibility upon each worker in regard to the spiritual welfare 
of some Associate member, and presenting a monthly report in 
writing to the Secretary. The final purpose is to enlist the 
co-operation of every Active member. The conversion of young 
men has already been secured, and we anticipate the best 
possible results to the work from this division of responsibility 
whereby workers are “paired off” with their fellows.’ The 
selection requires great wisdom and care. It is the carrying out 
of the sentiment so beautifully expressed by Emerson : “ The 
chief want in this life !—is it not for somebody to make me do 
what I can”? 


RESULTS. 


In the operating of these Agencies we have had 128 young 
men employed on 21 Committees. These Committees have 
held 240 meetings during the year. In addition to these regular 
workers, a number of members have taken part in visiting the 
Associate members in order to secure their attendance at the 
Religious meetings. 


15 


We have sent larger delegations than in any previous year to 
the Annual Convention. At the Provincial Convention in 
Ottawa 10 delegates represented this Association. At the 
International Convention in Philadelphia there were 16. This 
contact with the work as a whole has brought excellent results 
into our local Committee work. 


To record statistics in summing up a year’s work is difficult. 
We cannot tabulate the minds which have been trained and 
developed, the characters which have been strengthened and the 
decisions made which have influenced the lives for time as well 
as eternity. The preventive work is by no means the least in 
importance. If we had not profitably occupied the leisure hours 
of this great mass of young men, where would they have been 
spent? And our experience proves beyond a doubt that the 
future in a young man’s life is largely determined by the manner 
in which he uses his leisure hours. Personal letters might here 
be given bearing testimony to the blessings received by many a 
young man. Young men have been introduced to city Pastors, 
while hundreds have been personally dealt with as to their 
spiritual life. 


The greatest difficulty is experienced in following up the 
cases of enquirers met with at the various meetings. So many 
are transient, and only remain in the city for a short time. The 
importance is increased of pressing the question of decision for 
Christ at the time. Seize the present opportunity, otherwise it 
is gone. 


To secure greater results in this mighty field, we need con- 
secrated men who have the power of God, and who feel a 
personal responsibility for the conversion of souls. To all such, 
there cannot possibly be a wider field nor one of brighter 
promise. 


Two of our Active members enter the Theological Colleges ot 
this city next September for a course in preparation for the 
Ministry. 


16 


A statement is added of statistics in each department : 


ATTENDANCE. Mociings) | Attondsnce. | Attendalel 
At Building, daily, not including meetings....... 320 100, 160 
At Religious meetings ..........eeeseeeeveees 20,625 
RELIGIOUS WORK. 
Young Men’s Meetingiiv. oo eee ee ee 52 89 4,628 
Daily Noon Meeting....... ccscsecencesscees 313 12 3,756 
RELIGIOUS WORK. 
Stramgers | Pea 6 FA ECU &. fa 28 46 II 506 
Evangelistic meeting for Strangers (4 months).... 18 24 432 
BIBLE AND TRAINING CLASSES. 
POCO CTS, “CARES... 9.6 on nye ae bee so po be ee neg s 52 37 1,924 
Evangelistic Class. .... 0. csecesceceeeee ie cee 52 96 4,978 
Workers’ Training Class (Oct. to April 16) ..... 28 16 112 
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT. 
Religious Meetings........0..se000-seeseseses 52 70 3,640 
is - -Cote St. ae Branca -<. 20 30 600 
Bible ‘Training’Class. . icc. sues svine sec ewes 9 7 63 
Snow Shoei Owtingss iia.) sae OE Sake Hl oD bile Sole 3 24 312 
Social. Meetings. |. .'asin oie, ieipd 0 + einer orn ule empres pin 3 183 549 
SOCIAL. 
Members’ Meetings. ......ccescuereecccsosons 8 130 1,040 
Anniversaty. fei Otek diay ele PEON bel tS I 1,200 
New-Vear’s) Reception. . 4 4)i5 cise wots » suk aGle os I 800 
EDUCATIONAL. | 
Pratik! “Tales Gove 6 eave Oo sie 6 oes 6 85 510 
Lectures on | Hlectsicity... +. dicate iy Ganis «cine ay bleyer 12 100 1,200 
Recning Classes (held weekly)... .....0+cceseee 6 
No. of Members entering...... 295 
Labreny No.of, valUMes: 5). seb) sid sf bw S 3,000 
- he er : : 6,927 
hs wf i ON |: °.!-. enamnoeeS O 198 
i papers and magazines on file... 137 
EMPLOYMENT. 
Apolitants repistered <..s'. dus ogee jee se 842 
Spiations sebured. <spcd isd spe aig h dc pid» ale 252 
COMMITTEES. 
No, OF Members Serving... ... 05h skis ens - 128 
“*) 1 Meetings held). (205i. 240 
Board of Directors Meetings held........ 18 
Building Committee’s' “ oy Thee 20 
INVITATION WORK. 
No. of Meetings and Classes (weekly)..... 2 
THVUGUONS. CISIDULGE T5556 ssn swelsag ss 53,000 
MEMBERSHIP. 
ACtiVe MGM DENS . i6)..05 5 a tin's 6 wees nenye's) one 531 
fs | a eae A Pee ear ees see a ee 305 


Life and Honorary Members.... ....... 


. No. of Average Total 
Junior Department, Meetings. Attendance. Attendance. 


Active Members..... bis ale Leone wEnces ls 23 


CEMETERY Lot. 
Two Young Men interred during the year. 
MILITARY CAMP Work. 
At Sherbrooke, 12 days 
Reading Room and Association work, daily 
Evangelistic Meetings each evening...... ..... 12 350 4,200 


SEOSPITAL, SERV ICHS) wih ov atures BW seb Para c aha ae 52 25 I, 300 
Total attendance at all meetings during the year 
(exclusive of Committee and Board Meetings). 132,205 


D. A. BUDGE, 
Secretary. 


REPORT OF BUILDING COMMITTEE. 


On May 4th, 1888, the Deed was signed transferring two lots including an area 
of 54x128 feet, from Mrs. Henry Lyman to the Young Men’s Christian Association 
at a cost of $19,024 50. After a careful consideration of the space required for the 
new Building, this was found to be too narrow, compelling the Committee either to 
abandon the lots or secure additional land. On the 19th November an addition of 
12x128 feet was purchased from Mrs. Fisher at a cost of $4,608 oo, making the total 
area 8,448 feet, and the cost to the Association $23, 632. 50. 

The selection of an architect was made after the greatest possible care and con- 
ference. By unanimous decision the Building was finally placed in the hands of 
Messrs. Fuller & Wheeler of Albany, N.Y., on account of their special experience in 
this class of building. Five months was occupied in the preparation of plans. During 
this period every possible attention was given to the interior arrangement of the build- 
ing. In order to secure the best possible experience, correspondence was conducted 
with a large number of Associations, and the points gained have been carefully 
embodied in the plans for the new Building. 

Specifications in detail were then prepared, upon which tenders are now being 
asked, and it is the purpose of the Committee to erect the foundation this year, and, if 
possible, complete the building in 18go. 

A systematic canvas for subscriptions was begun in September 1888, and con- 
tinued up to the present time, with the following result : 


From'the Board ‘of Ditectors. 7s tae wee ety $17,250 
en ee SOS INE ae eee RRUA MS. Selig, <a wip tore EW oie 13,340 
“a SeCCCUORING Sid A metes dia eet ioe ae uae 24,750 

$55,340 


In order to erect and furnish this building free from debt $30,000 is still required. 
Each member who has not already given should contribute something at once, and 
each member who has given should secure another contributor. This would greatly 


18 


lessen the labor of the Building Committee. A separate set of books has been opened 
for this fund, and the history of the movement in all its details is being carefully 
recorded for the future use of the Association. The following is the Financial 
Statement for the year ending April 3oth, 1889 :— 


RECEIPTS. DISBURSEMENTS. 
To Subcriptions on Young By Payment for Lots on 
Men’s Fund.......-+: § 1,808 38 Dominion Square, Mrs. 
‘© Subs’ptions on Merchants Lyman. . .$19,024 50 
and Citizens’ Fund .... 3,450 00 Mrs. Fisher 4,608 00 $23,632 50 
‘* Rental Account......+- 250 00 ‘Legal and Notarial Ex- 
‘* Tnterest Account......+-- 55 02 penses’ Account.....- 19 25 
‘© Amount received from ‘¢ Interest Account....--- I,112 95 
Finance Committee for ‘¢ Postage Account....-.-- 8 75 
use of Building Fund.. 22,984 28 ‘“ Rates and Assessments 
‘¢ Furniture Account, Sale A cooutits » % vs «seeeoees 116 40 
of Old Chairs...-.++-- 45 00 ‘¢ Advertising Account. ..-. 3 00 
‘© Expense Account....--- 58 66 
‘* Printing and Stationery 
Account.....sceeeees 77 a 
‘¢ Cash on hand...-.-+-- 3,563 87 
$28,592 68 $28,592 68 
teh sell deh Kal 


WARDEN KING, 
Examined and found correct. Chairman. 


J. B. PICKEN, ! ole 
GEORGE CREAK, Auditors. 


fe en a ee Nn a Oe eames 


EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 


This Committee report with pleasure and gratitude the harmony that prevails in 
the various departments of our work, and the spirit of earnestness and devotion which 
characterises our workers. 

The various matters brought before us, pending the monthly meeting of our 
Directors, received prompt, as well as careful and prayerful consideration, and save 
valuable time of the Directors by submitting these matters to them in concise form. 
We also take immediate action in cases where such is called for. 

We were enabled to secure the services of Mr. T. Duncan Patton, to assist our 
Secretary, and feel that the Association is to be congratulated on the efficiency of his 
work. | 

The week of prayer was observed, as usual, in November, and most of our city 
pastors preached special sermons to young men, on Sunday, 11th November. 

Mr. Dodge, of New York, rendered us valuable service in an address to a large 
number of our leading business men, called to meet him in our parlors in October last. 

Our Anniversary Meeting, held on the 24th January, was an unqualified success. 
The addresses of Dr. Virgin, of New York, and Dr. Wells, of Montreal, were truly 
inspiring. We are thankful that on these and other occasions we received many 
indications of the kindly approval and confidence of our fellow citizens in our work. 


All our employees are doing faithful work. 
R. HENRY HOLLAND, 


Chairman. 


19 
EDUCATIONAL. 


Sir William Dawson delivered the opening lecture on Tuesday evening, the 2nd 
October, 1888, choosing as his subject ‘‘ Some Antecedents of Montreal.” 

This was followed by a special course of twelve lectures on Electricity, by Mr. W. 
R. Kimball, Electrician of the Royal Electric Light Company, with an average attend- 
ance of upwards of 130 persons. 

Practical Talks and Lectures were given in March and April, as follows :— 

Two lectures on ‘‘ Max O’Neil’s journey from Asia to Europe ”—Illustrated, 
Mr. L. O. Armstrong ; ‘‘ Progress of Photography,” Mr. Alex. Henderson; “ Plants, 
how they breathe and feed,” Prof. Penhallow; ‘‘ Emergencies,” Medical Talk, Dr. 
Chas. Cameron. 


Evening Educational Classes—October to April :— 
Members Enrolled. 


French, elementary ) "RE 55 
French, advanced f Mr. 1g R. Gr egor soe eevee 24 
Commercial Arithmetic 5 3 
Book-keeping 4 

Penmanship Mr. Alec Thomson...... 52 
Phonography 40 
Glee Ohi ee eeadl oes Mr. Wi At Coates /)02.' 25 


A larger average attendance than heretofore, and greater proficiency at the final 
examinations for testimonials and certificates, was the result obtained by restraining 
members from entering more classes than they could properly keep up with. 


CHARLES CUSHING, 
Chatrman. 


ROOMS AND LIBRARY. 


The list of periodicals in the reading room has been revised and enlarged. It 
has been the aim of the Committee that our tables shall be furnished with the best 
that can be had in this direction. 

The library has also received most careful attention, as it has long been felt that 
additions here are of permanent value. The demand upon the shelves in the boys’ 
alcove is constant and increasing, which has been met as best it could with the means 
at the disposal of the Committee. This demand calls for serious consideration from 
the friends of the Association, in view of the strong words spoken at the late Con- 
vention in Philadelphia upon this very topic. While the Directors have been generous 
to the extent of their resources, we cannot but call attention to this field of Christian 
influence among our boys and young men, but little understood as yet, but destined 
in the near future to be one of the strong features of Association work. 


We present the following figures from the Librarian’s record :— 


Number of papers and magazines on file in the Reading Room........ 137 
Neamber:of books Gn Library iiss ¢ oie. ceviws apodeduthy bonleeen ve 3000 


20 


Number of books drawn each month :— 


Mrs sachowe.eshxs 561 September.......... 428! January). ge... 697 
Jane. od Jeanne 446: October onined. i.to06i.: 664) February. 662). 2a 535 9 
Faly bie dawtiaistewkls 396: November... sasves [5/837 «Marehvelioi.cs oie 70 
AUCUS ei Baa lie 958: December ¢ cscaich lev 640!) Aprilsic eis. 4a 585 


DOL FOr Ee Pears wn 5 nue ksee 4 ha een 6,927 
— 


CHAS. T, WILLIAMS, 
Chairman, 


JUNIOR DEPARTMENT. 


The total number on the roll who have attended once at least during the year js _ 
340 ; of these, the average attendance was 70 per night, the largest number present 
on any one occasion being 110, and the smallest 18. These figures show a falling off - 
as compared with the previous year, which is to be regretted, but still this work can- — 
not be altogether judged by numbers, often the smallest meeting is the one which is : 
most impressive and which accomplishes most good. Wherever the good seed is 
sown there cannot fail to be results, and we can see that the Boys’ Work is not un-_ 
fruitful ; we can see growing up around us many manly Christian lads, who will before — 
long os taking an active part in running the Association, and we can feel ourselves, q 
the workers, to be strengthened and helped in our own lives. 


The meetings in the Association Building have been held regularly every week 
throughout the year, and the meetings at Cote St. Antoine every fortnight, except 
during the very hot weather. 


Our Scripture Union has since Ist January obtained 83 members who undertaliil 
to read a small portion of the Bible every day. 


Almost all the boys attending the meeting had signed the old temperance pledgim 
but we have recently adopted the triple pledge against liquor, tobacco and profanity, 
and so far sixteen have signed it. These are, perhaps, the most fruitful causes of 
failure on the part of young fellows, and if the boys can be kept from them, a Bog 
work will have been accomplished. 


The Savings Bank is in a flourishing condition, the total number of accounts 
being at present 104, and the total deposits $618.42. The kind offer of 10 per cell 
interest from a prominent gentleman, has had the effect of considerably increasing the 
deposits. As an example of the amount of business transacted, it may be said that 
in April the deposits were $79.95 and the withdrawals $16.69. 


The Cote St. Antoine Branch Meeting under the leadership of Mr. Gawne has 
an average attendance of from 30 to 40 boys, many of whom are much interested and 
among whom good work has been done. q 

Occasionally on Sunday mornings the boys visit the General Hospital, sing for 
the patients, and distribute papers, etc., afterwards attending the service. 


¥ 
7 
‘ 


— 


21 


Recently a little Training Class has been started under the leadership of Mr. 
Corbett, at which the workers meet together and study the lesson for the coming 
Friday. 

The Invitation Committee, in charge of Mr. Percy Leslie, has been actively 
employed during the year in distributing invitation cards among their friends and 
schoolmates. By means of this, writing letters, and calling on some of the boys at 
their homes, many new names have been added to the roll and many absentees brought 
pack. 

The Committee have endeavored to make the meetings as bright as possible, and 


have provided as many outside attractions as they could. Two Socials were held 
during the season, one in the fall and one on April Ist. 


There was also a picnic in September last. AI] these passed off well. The Snow 
Shoe Tramps to the Athletic Club House were well attended during the winter, and 
we can only say that if anyone wants to have an afternoon of real good sport he should 
go out with the Y. M. C. A. Juniors. 


The Committee cannot but feel that a great responsibility is laid upon them, and 
earnest prayer should be made that they may be fitted for the work and enabled to 
properly discharge their duty. They would like to see branch meetings started in the 
East End, Point St. Charles, and the northern part of the city, if the way were opened 
up. The field is a wide one and the work important. May it be blessed. 


GEO. C. WELLS, 
Secretary. 


FINANCE. 


This Committee has held 18 meetings. A careful supervision has been made of 
all the expenses, and the Committees have been kept within their appropriations. 
At the instruction of the Association, a mortgage of $35,000 at 5 per cent. was placed 
upon the Association Building, $12,000 of which was required to pay the Bible 
Society’s claim, and the balance loaned to the New Building Committee for pay- 
ment of the land. 


While thanking the merchants and citizens for their liberal response, they desire 
to acknowledge the cheerful manner in which the funds are given. 
The thanks of the Committee are due to Messrs. Geo. Creak and J. B. Picken 
for their careful audit. 
DAVID YUILE, 
Chairman. 


22 


Iv VE Feserseses pase eds Qaghode ye Josey MONT 
6€ SS fo wa eae n= es Soe TROL eIaIay 
GE 2E1 E+ 82 * Cr see art ne +> + oogenae Alesse 
09 9g Pr teeeeee ee ceeees sosuadxg dures Avy 
C6 Zvz ee ee ere rere ee seseeseon “*a0 <#* 5 SOIEMISHT 
Sh CPr = tt sor ht oe ee + erga ssogSY DUE Sally 
$6 6gb “tt tt *OR0 ‘sIaYOVAT, preg “YIOA\ [eUOTONp | 
go OI! 

OS QE vertttttee test eeeeees suvorq,, 

9$ 16$° ‘saripuns ‘Junooov puny jUsTOAsUag 
98 39 Pree ete sees eee ee ee ee squmoooe oI 
o1 lz sreeee- ee ssgsuadxa uondasay s.1va_ MON 
IO VIT ttt tte yunosse uoldasey pure [e1I0G 
€Lzgr oft tasejsog pue Sunuiig ‘yunosor p.o77y 
6S g9 Trees sroqg So}a ‘sarqig ‘aanqzeldyVT SNOISIAYy 
6z €LE = -068I “\s1 ‘ue 0} suondtiosqng Surpnyout 

S[voIpolag pur ‘sdepy “j908 Wooy suIpvayy 
QL EgE ttt ttsstoaqa ‘syoog Man : JUNOoDN ArvIqry 
00 Soz‘o$ 

9£ gle (auoydayay, Surpnjom) -dxW -uey 

99 S61 rts tet sTemauay pure siredayy 


ee ** payeuop "79 ‘sirey’) 
JO a[es Io} yUNODDY : JUNODIY SuIpymg Mon ,, 


og 16 ICES 11100) (a) 
QI IQ! tt NAS Se ae < es es OR 8s Ay 
Co LSP oe ee 8 gS Sek ES ee 
C6 Lz @ecee cee coerce es + SUISTLIOAPY 
CY CzI <0 8 + BRS Rs 878 ome Ae 


Ooo Vol eoeeeeee oS @.-2 8 @Ss © UO1JUDAUO") 
spidey puery 0} sasuadxa 
Suipnypout ‘sosuodxy Surjjaaviy, 

go O89 So a 2 Sire) 


6 LLORES 8 54 Rs seh ew Fe ES 


> sasuadx7y yuarINgD 
QI gb¢: Sek e eer eee reese sesees "QQQI SI Avy 999d uolyelOssy Ag 


“S~NAWASYN ASIC 


+9 


93 


29° 


99 


€¢ zor 


69 661535-——---— 


00 o00'Seg ———— 
So -VO0 ee Sete eee pun. Supping Mon 0} pred yseg 
zl S10‘S1 Se ee ee AYoIN0S aIqrq pred yseg 
00 000‘SE¢ + Sulpling p]O Uo osesj10J 1Of poatodo1 YSeD 
‘OLA ‘HOVOLUON 
« 96 -2EEE eee ‘6ggr ‘YIOF Judy puey uo sduY|eg 
o€ SPE *°°**-*read Sulinp jno pred ysej—’ LOnNdAa 
19 8L9 
SL Oios.” ao nee hel ee oh eax Sulnp poarsse1 yseg 


0O ZOI 
09 88 
oo SYP 
ce 3 

Sg of! 
oo F19‘1 
LL 9z 
cS SY 
00 VE 


19 2791 


ge OSEG** eget ‘YO Judy “Wo'Ww'A Aq prey yseD 
NOISSIN ASHNVdv{ WOT ANNA 


- FCNVYXOWAW 


Leben tenet set eee ee rene tsees gouvreg 
wee e cece ee eee tee eee ee see eegTg SIUaUT 
-ISIIDAPY OJ paaladay 2 yuNoIv p4077Y 

ce seeescoereseyto ng dued jo sasuadxq 
TOY poyeoa]jod :yunosov durvg ArvjzyIy 

Loe tees eres etre ereeereeessreyy PIO 
JO a[es TOF poataday +: JUNODI JINJLUAIN YT 
te se eeeesceessepred sjunoddv UO JUNODSICT 
ssemececcoeeces se KIBSISAIUUY 18 UOIDIT[OD 
ee a 

"+ 5+ **SuUOT]VUO(T puv SUOTJDIT[OD 
: JUNODOV PUNY JUITOAoUD 

Oe € 89 Se, SO Eee re 13 ‘SOUIZESL IA 
JOY PaalsdoY + JUNO WOOY Sulprdyy 

i cs & ra 8, @ 
SULINP SOUL IO} poatsdayJ_: JuNOION ArviqryT 
Soy eee Se US tet 29 Os Tee diysisq ure jy 


eoewreere 


OO CLG 28 lee aa et veers ssuondiosqns 


‘SLIIGOWY 


9 


99 
9? 
99 
99 
be] 
9) 
99 


9? 


99 


” 
OL 


| “4YI0E WYdV ONIGNS YV3SA YO4 LNAWSLVLS WIONVNIS ‘NOILVIDOSSV NVILSIMHD S.\NSW SNNOA 


23 


CONTRIBUTIONS TO CURRENT EXPENSES 
For the year ending April 30th, 1889. 


Anclorson, “OWis vcs «aoe s F830 ds oe } 


Ayer, A, A. G00 snes t ea paginwes 
Angus, R.B 
Ames, Holden & Co. 
Alexander, 
Anis, WINt s.55s 


oeew C8 FF CRPPH HTP HRT HH ee 


_ ©0688 © » 6 © 


ov our COP eeC severe e essere ee & 


Mncersot, 1). dn usees Gece dade 
MstOH, Ws Rhcdss + bows UATE ene 


rh, 19, aves ares bie ges Fpl | 


PEEMatLOUes, VV ns hae >< 5 SEs beee 
Sani: oL LOPONGG. 4. cs ss 9 ean sakes 
Bell, Sam’! 
Bar ret, Tt, WR DAES cys un cs ches 
Birks, "A. + head no 
Belding, Paul & Co Lt nae sen e 
Sond], INOBE ty 100; 4s o0ks cabs eee 
Brainerd, gg i hea ber ol om sunulltic 
Bishop, Geo. 
Barland, G. Be ..6.. cy Rh AE PA 
ETT TITANS, is WE vas) ach nodose he ei 
Brown, W. Godhbee,.... 65 64. sates 
BETIOY, Uiockys ceebey Je Vea seed 
EL.) , Oe hs ame ews tamales Sa aRe 2 
Brown, JMGRORO., se ack bee At 
Bell, Simpson & Co 
Bates, John S 
BUSAN, | Vien Wi ouu's 4 od sas PRR 
RMOL, Tl: le Me IO. teaed> bate 
meeceerell,’ FG. EL. vss nsy koh) 2 Shs nen 
Black & Lock..... pet fuente?) SY dat 8 2 
mere Mig OG siya. ne bane ot 
Beecicett, Bu Aasices sn seee eave sees 
erdan, (r80.. 6s. vehev vee Np rrr 
SPETIOT FA. aise Loren” eae 0 xs ee Oe 


eereerwe er Fe Pee ee ee eeee 


est ee e@fF#@ POP eH we Oe 


FA aed Fake hee bk sae e ee 
MiG 6c FAPVIO. cass) .as sea eds 
Benny, GC Sdainne) hue aocaren oe 
Brissette, 1. dp; RE On Ra ET 
Brayley, ‘ip Exoee eerie geil 
Brown, T. B 
MP AIT. TE. 5 or af rhe a ep ciewiieack 
Me JUS. 20 | hw ass Bee en he xp 

MWe,” Fie WV a 0.0 1 a's stale eh up tise 
Bullock, J. 8 


Briggs PR Raa ates te 
A 


seeceoreew see eeoen eer eeee 


SS 5 REARS Ts te a ae 


or Or OV Or OUOT OF OF OF OC OU OT Ot OT OF OF OF OF DUGOUT OU O1 


Brophy, Cains & Coli. see $ 5 
DOES TIE So cad Co's sae vas dae eh 5 
eV Be, ao. asd i vee dhe vs a2 3 
PROG Iisa os oan hwhed demas 3 
Barrington, Mrd. Thos. oo6 6 was sos 2. 
Canada Paper Co. .s. 66s sp. as +53) hee 
Canto, Hwan & Co! cies bie decd 25 
Crathern & Caverhill.............. 25 
RS LGR Cos a oss. baa ad, cae e BE mca 25 
Campoell, Mire: (i Ws i. fs oe 25 
eT ee eae ne, ree 20 
Crean, COAG, : 63's Soleivn is bali aol 15 
Clendinneng, W. & Son........... 10 
PE RS as Gs ante ae & 2s 'r ae AER's 10 
Cheney, ies Stake At ere sacs 10 
Re TRO A e's Waele o\6 1<ob S Rle eo 10 
CPR, ah EE so av o's OR a NY Sees es 10 
ee a Boe A 0: ee, eer 10 
CSM CG 0. Sv cus bee co ss poms 10 
CN Us sa dalgh ade adele ey One 10 
RS Oo a nccie a Casa oy ee co Se aks 10 
UL, OURS S se d.01,45 0:8 Kirpan okie 10 
CIC NTRS hg oS oo ate Russ ak ce 10 
Cochrane, Cassils & Co ........... 5 
TAN ies ea da eae Biley 5 
he |, RRR Sr Rene RPE Sa : 5 
Cmrie, Wy. G00. bs 6 COL. oes ta 5 
Ce OD iii bs ops  vutyapte 5 
Cooper, Fairman & Co .........-- 5 
COON I) oe, eee Sid els ORA 5 
A SeNM oy ER fn ok ne obey koa ove bale 5 
BO Pee ONE Soe eaeter t 5 
Rede TN Vs ke Ss cp ee ke nes 5 
KEES ER spice a ks ee Sea 5 
FE ON vip we cea hw on ee ae ees 5 
FSS OT EYL Sb ae a ask Gib o<'Sieds ey a eas 5 
BO a an Canaan caper yarn Pre 5 
Canada Chemical & Dye Stuff Co.. 5 
Le BON be ek en sew dhe 5 
ieee FE Rs cat + vpaen berks u? 5 
ea cians sees >, bakes aa 5 
eee eees GeO sna whas +s 0 eed el 3 
ENE: URIRE on So oe ea 8S Sa le dGee 0, md 2 
Oe ey A: b-v'sis oto be ae He hana 2 
CATIA, FD. ac saa ade eas dae 2 
Covermton, Qo. 0 : or x piste fe tain tals “ae 2 
RATER EST © tee dia 5 o's hcenlara tale vale 50 
TIGRIS, OTs oe ke oC abd mew w RB 25 
Douglass & McNiece....... 66-200. 10 
BaD pie Ee RR see anaes Bet 10 
Duncan, John.. 10 
Drummond, McCall & Co......... 10 


Dun, Wiman & Co.. 


DORE ee ors cic sce an eee goers 
Davidson, Ty; Cos acta os 


DGRS IAS, Be bc de ie 4 do Fee ee waged 
DUMATONG, SON i end ce kale eee ees 
AIO A. WE cath oes ooh tes lek 
ReMANO Es ee baccx toes me eR 
TIAVis, Be BONO es foe a vee ey 
DOTS VT ON Sides fxs cae eas 
Dyer; J OW bi. kd... odes AB gale seas 
Drysdale; TW. .c555s- Leanlcg tare Glen 


eoeoeereeesveer eee £8 ee eee eee 


TIS eh aU Phe hee eee oe Pee sarah: 
Teme; Bw As Re lee Ge 
Hvelewh: J.-& 00... 25 ees. 7 e's 
DG AB fis vd Stade cn ede ens 
Euard & McDonald............-. 
Fee ee ayy Sac snes s os aoa 


SRE SAAR Tice a oe a aa ee nes wile 
firs Es Ot OE. ca 2, i ina 


OOS dhs. aud = ale ah ae-iama Barnet bewiel en 
Ferguson, Alexander & Co........ 
Peamerstone, Ay oi cere eiaas des 
ROMOLE. AY cock to ohn ct igh ee nee 
PORNO As TS 5s ob co ohh on cele npenges 
Norman ws 56 5's AEA ae eh A Ere A 
PNG NE iase cs one eer bat ancees 
Dar TE ins oi cd peas oe 8 oe oe 
MORNE ys Whle 'saeee 8 17 eee 
Fisher, M. Sons & Co............. 


COPOAR Ni dhs eas Ped «ee eaa sed 
Greenshields, 8. Sons & vers rl Sa 
Gault Bros. & Co.. . RS bie it 
Gullespie, Patterson & Co......... 
Graham, Hugh 
bo eS Mae. SI Spey ere eet ys 
Goodyear Rubber Co...) 25. 20s 
Cenpecet, Ti WW oil vs het Lege 
Gilbert, #0. Eh. Sons fs. 2.5... owen 


eceoenrr ,m eevee Pee eeseaes 


fp 
pot 
Oo 


bd DY OL OTOTOLOT OT OLOTOLOT OU OH 


rt Or Or Or OF OF Or OV OT OU 


ox 
So 
© 


24 


Cid, drat Sone. i... awstats & 
Gault, Mra, Ot. Ths sss. aves NS 
RSI a Ae ec kks ease A adnenss 
GoddardcG.: #3 ics 5 ca wate wee iesias 


Gazley, F 


corr eer epee eewaeere eer ere eene- 


Hague, Geo........ ir Dhehiee wales 
SERA, Fattes cocked ne pgs als ua eae 
PROGRMOT TSPOR 5 aise is deco ko ips ies 
Srepoergon: Fh. 6524- "epee apace ae 
Pramas Jie Whe ee ea ear oe 
Hyde, G 
Hughes & Stephenson............. 
Henderson Lumber Co............ 
Brecmceapton, Ja. ssc c ede pee 8 
Henderson, Wei 
E. N 


eeeeere toe e808 + @e@ eee «@ 


Pee, TE se Ss wae os 
Holland, C. wey ies id's ta inate rer ci 
Hanson Bros.. pee Sea fae eee os 
ey * BBY: NAM ph BN A ea 


ee te eee eeee eevee ee 
eoeerer eee ees OF Be eereeseare 


oo + ©@ OM CO-OP KoeCHAeF OF 2 Ree 


Re Ee cee critiees bees »>e@ersroeaeaene 
Bee, “SOU iG baka cede ls aes 


ganueg & Cor ss 23855 .c5-55 44 
Johnston, J. & Co.. tae taks 
Jamieson, R. C, & Co. a a’) cueele ae 
Sp ea Medes Hine ane Peat oC genes ego 
Jordan, Thos...:.. SOURS acetate 


eeee-s 


ey Be ees 


Kennedy, PTE Se oa ates ePvane Pascal 
OT IE OW spite aa we KF ee 
King, J. C.. ANE pain. 
Kendall, GH k& Oo fie 


Kinloch, W idis i043. PAH Os ney 
Kennedy; Wmsserctececesas cited 


Lightbound, Ralston & Co........ 
Lockerby B 
Linton, James & Coisss oes oes 
Leeming Thos, &-Gow.es ..0 52h ee 
Lamb; Greoxigsies stiea seta sd fe 
Fearmont. ay Bote i rd os 
Lyman Sons & Co 

Lowden, Mrs. J. R 
Frundie, (ke Wa saat 3: 
Laurie, J 00-8-B80s ec ckee ass : 
and, MO BOW elie ke 
Posie; As 526s 355040555500 Se) 
Pal boes Car FBG baste eitietiwellentee 
Bowden, J, 3tiscs eset shine 
Lousot, SOB B Gs vents ced losscd en 
Latinas ari ie ve ks yesh es Sas 
Trasher) ii 4 efate dd & S485 ee ate 
Lamb; Tansives 4 Eee 
Liffiton, C, A 
Murphy, John........ ae i 
Mackay Brogisss.set usin 4'5 oth 
Molsons Bank: ios: ss.t5et> dt 
Morris, A. W. & Bro.. 

Moore, J ; Flertetoa sy oie ae 
Mills & Hutchinson . ies cgieds yes af 
Morrice, D. Sons & Co ........... 
Merchants : Bank... vere eee Se yk 
Mackintogligd .iiwseewtsce. a 
Mackedie, J. W. & Cows... coecss 
Moss,’G. Ws Be Cows) 47 55 i 
Worton,y Fh 4 iwi ee eae wt 
Miller, R, Some Cov tage ius 


7 SOLS @esise 8 0 « 


eee see ere set er eeeeoe 


Mudge, The ad is eee 
Marling, ds Wisin thyds ieeeees 
Meldrum Brog..2.)¢é¢ <> : F. 


Macpherson, An 6 sce denies oh 0's 0 
Mooney, 6. Aa & GOs. %. oc: sedees 
Belen SF oie the duels be Pewee 

BLACAULCY ORG Nas 55 ales os 870 ihe 
PIA ROPAGN AD, A Cais ayes 
Matterson, JAMIGE vies sda saa c ead 
PLALOC, 000W < liaethiena besees Caneas 
ELay, LDOR Mic aee ites eee iee es 
poude, Be Wejuresa c+ dee eros ate 


SAAjOY BOIS) Reis ts chine ond eve e s 
Duir FP ANOR es. Wea Sle SE 
OT LG CRIN, ais tha does 5 
DAOStOVOIAN, is Lies oltavae ls daw ane 
mackonald;: Ge Wisas cccviectaess 
Masterman, WwW. fh i pln arr tirs pals be 
Munro, Dr Lex Sachs ails Gat boa’ as 
McLennan, FA ihe SW a dd wate ae eal oe 
mieMaster, ‘Cente ds Ae risk eet 
McFarlane, Austin & Robertson... 
ge kIT tee raga le 


DD OL OT Or OL OL OF OV Or Or 


bS Or 
oom 


25 


Motoown; J. Hiss i scale! Ye $ 10 
McLaren Belting Co.....,........ 5 
McBean; G25 5%%.'% wh vewea gees 5 
McArthur, A ... Lid 5 
McFarlane,. Patterson & Co....... 5 
MoMaater, Wi siceeiieeas isd 4 a4 5 
McBride, Harris & Co............ 5 
MeCattum, ‘Biv N sos5sccag ee) sods 5 
McLean; John. i. scia caves pele. 4 
MeAllan.: Fo. W iis isa ii Gs 2 
MiG Obty A. 6 Se eee see ds 1 
Mac ord, Dy Bias saps sige ts dL 
Nelson, H. A. & Sons......... ..3 50 
Notman, ‘W. & Sofisss: isi. ot 10 
Molen; Woe Bass case's cles Ns eee 5 
Mewman, FW isis tee eer gas 5 
Nicholaon; Te G 0+ 0a cine it's 5 
Omilvie; Wo Wen Se ial 10 
OPiaherty,; olin saa edie 5 
Putnam, B.D .ys5c8 2 sans oh” Ree «i 
Patterson, Kissock & Co.......... 25 
Pacicand, Les Hiss: isgh sees ean’ 25 
PIGeehs FB el “eee ed knee) 20 
Paine: ‘Walter. (4.° wedi Wee od 15 20 
Paton, og ee Pe ee Dare 10 
POLO ND Ak ie cee ce be Ween’ 10 
Picionr 353 0s a eae cb wee 10 
Pattereon,< > Wess: cou nt ‘ve GIS ALO 
Palmer: 3s Do Bet cece cos oe bite oT ED 
POE, PV Ober is 5a ewe 10 
Parsons: -. hs. 3 Sess ee ok eae 5 
PORN PDN. Was Sa ey a 5 
Le EE ee a ee re ) 
Phling, Os Bid ne eee Aa 5 
Peel, adie ho. A 5 
Prowse, Oy Des ke DR ota ea TEN 5 
Phillips, DEN i's catvare ches Gi tide WAS 5 
ARO Os dae tare gh es 5 
Petmos,: We Giese >> hee S ELA Vis 5 
Phelps, G. F... 5 
PPINGIC, LOOM oi wees vir bes bb 2 
Py ren Se ee eer ae 

Proudfoot, WG As ee oot 1 
re oe ba San eate eee pala haces bs 100 
FLO, Sure. 6 OT i ce owed kb ew a 2h 
Robinson, Fleet & Falconer........ 15 
PUUtNMETORG DD cs ced ease eis > biveta ole 12.50 
TNEOINE, ANON. o's h k < ie Mo 8 10 
Robertson, Linton & Co........... 10 
Reet POE Fi ait eek OSs 25 10 
PERCE ees hci Labia amines God 10 
Rankin, Beattie & Co............. 10 
Random, Forbes & Oo0.05.0. . 0.655. 10 
Richerdeon-te Cos 2s cigs 10 
TUG SAAR era a wR A db ita ds tees 10 
TUOMCER, MEOH nce ep eu civg ny nig ht Kee 10 
TUG DCP a oy tb as leds hee 5 
PRI. ab A Ea aes en hanees 5 
Rameay, A., Son.& Co...... ..+0s 5 
TLGOCE I, Be le ey oh tee ae alee 5 


Mobertaon & Cos secede sei ices 
eke, Wy, Be te A206; oti cxvidiebee ‘ap 
Rutherford, Fis si.) 505508 Lbaabbeke 
Moebhertaon, Gry Whe o'ss ecenees dese 
Robertedn, Asse ot. wawsat foe) « pvmnie 
GEA, DoT Sse haan p's o0's'se Us ade 
moadick, De. Ty 4 ot} os salon 3 eds 
Boberts, (00. . eis y oa 0 Woe sneld 
Meoseveen, Ws Biss cave ve adel scay 
Babine So snsxs eds tae eens ccs 
7) ee IO See ree ere ee 4 50s 
Ross, Dr.'G.. T. ot 


Savare, Al & Son. dncsitids ob0 heey 
ee Peels: os pecaee os ai aiey 
iii, a) « LUOPAT oo koa fables 
Sadler, ISU pe cide osc disk ales 
tN Ac BL, dts ena s ba vale ¥p feelin 
Shorey, H., Son & Co......... 2 bs 
Shaw Bros. & Cassills ..........0. 
Stephen, Sir Geo, ... 00) «Hsin ce wees 
PREG A aya ne ee soos wales lott 
Scott, Ts Sere eae Pane 
Simpson a ht a dla sien 
CERO OT. p53 55 eer e bb ond oley 
Shearer, J. S....%.. Seat an fila bake aide 
Sheppard, CAG. .400 =) s00 cya sailes 
Summer, (00... 440. oases Oe te 


@eeoseve?ee 88 Pe Be 


Smith, G. F 
EF, AIOE nes eee seine tye hnins 
Spence; We Wis. oe os oss sores pihde 
Smith, J. W 
ns ae: a ee) Cee 
SNL aa 3 ee ee ee es he 
Bivona Samuel. «s4 i+ 4a,sts 06 9h ores 
mbeverie.s Ge. 4 is sy ss.55 eyes, oe SF olde 
Stevenson & Blackader....... «+. 
er GAS Te Ob Aes’: s ini oe spells afec 


> est O20 9 


-eeeeetreee eee eee weet 


8 © 68 1b 6. 0 0 os * OF? 04 


BOGS. Tye ON 5 vl one. eek eso4 
© Subscriver” (W.. DOs 3.5.0 hs fe ae 
ONT Ue ais ov edeaous.e hdd, Seteeh 


RDS 09 Or Or Or COU OT OL OL OT Or 


DD DS DO DY DD OF Or OT Or Ot Ot OLOU OT OL OT OT OL OT OU OT OU OV Or 


iS) 
Or 


Torrance, D. & Co 
Pes WTO bk cand de gnnsi ccs ads veds 
THOMION GCAO. ba even oe ate 
Tees, Wilson & Coy <sied nee foryess 
Thomson, Alex 
Tester, J. W. & 


ee veevsoeoeseneseee7 028 se 8H 


ceocerov ees er er re ee 


conor e ee te es eee ee 


ia a a a a eae ee ee eg 


VIpond GOO, sp evcciev engi sa eeh ofas 
Viponds OF seca deiics.« ead inns 
Vip TD, Sy esse coe ye oe Slt ts cee 


WORN TAN Fic od fs hwnd Sas kOe 
Wilson, Patterson & Co... .se0cts. 


eeoeoe eoeoeseoereeveeere vee 


abn DD. Mia Sse na wees oe tal he 
WHGIOT EOC. os 5s, dene teens 6 Tew 
White, W. C 
Williamson, James). ir .e.oosie'e oa 
og ae Be Ore es eer 
Wilkins, Dr.. PS eR, eT ee 
Wallies Al 2.0.0 stge Cr Oe akin 
|S SEE ee ae abs Fr 


Weir, OES: Ne ere 
We Hg AEs cae THEN Se laa bend 
WV AIGA, 6 AGs oss scars sh eee 

bg et Sa ene) sare eer 
WMG, ABOO nk t cate ee ss, eg he EES 
White, BE 1 xe oan cA Es ta 
Warren, W.H 


-@oewreo eee es teeter tee e 


Yuile, W. & D 
WON, G00. 5 555s oak one cals ad me 


27 


REPORTS OF ASSOCIATION. 


MEMBERSHIP. 


Your Committee beg to submit the following report for 1888-9. 285 members 
were added during the year, as follows :— 


REAY.S 4b ondne ee ae OIGMIDEr.. 2. cs 5 5 2 SJanoery ia 7s os e's 25 
PREV fee enol eto (RISO is sores} ees 80. (Febrmary.. 05-04. 14 
JUIN Ss cbs Spe hie TT: FIVOVOMDET. W's sds xs Sr “Naren 54% eh iv, aS 
PROBE sk oh emt ate 13 ‘Wecember..... 4. $0, RUA aie gis ie has 2 24 
The present membership is as follows :— 
Seniors. 
PPM cihiciahs vin body ec yu 4 nts ore o's States Vole 531 
ASSOCIACE «0. Lary iciania ey hel Gels as 6 aed oak 305 
Juniors. 
EI ae stalin oh ide satin esmitce ae Ghetes, dik Ped hee Ween § 23 
AASCOCINIE oes. bing dwn 5 b sihe) he yale gate riteneonok alae 206 
ORG: as. Posen is ¥ockinate wee Sarg 1065 
Potal Gastiyeatels is. vances 1256 
This apparent decrease can be accounted for by the fact that the names of all 
members three months in arrears have been struck from the roll. : 


Your Committee have found increasing difficulty in securing new names while in 
our present quarters, and many young men are postponing the taking out of member- 
ship tickets until we have more inducements to offer. 

Every member should therefore consider it his special duty to place the 
advantages of the Association before the young men of his acquaintance. 


A. O. Dawson, 


Chairman. 


EMPLOYMENT WORK. 


This Department is steadily on the increase from year to year; 842 applicants 
were received during the twelve months, and of these 252 received employment directly 
through the aid of our Bureau. Besides this many were counselled and advised, 
and not a few in destitute circumstances were assisted by means of our Benevolent 
Fund. Many of those assisted to employment were young men from other lands; 
almost every country in the world was represented, including China, Japan, India, 
France, Germany, Denmark, Switzerland, Italy, England, Ireland, Scotland, Wales, 
Jersey Isles, Australia, United States, besides our own Dominion. We can look 
back on the past year only with great thankfulness for the opportunity thus afforded 


28 


us of extending a welcome to so many strangers. Some (like the Lepers) have never i 
even returned to give thanks for help ; the majority, however, have been very grateful 4 
for our aid, and are now members of the Association. Several have contributed | 
towards our new Building Fund, and not a few have pressed into the Kingdom of God. 


The following statement shows the work accomplished :-— , 
SITUATIONS FILLED. 4 

i i , 

m S = fi 3) rs) ¥ 

8 e 3 & : é fs ¥ a . a ; : 

raat ca . a vi = =| < 5 & H a 4 \ 

ae wi ' Q aI tM} 8 =| 3 5) a a a - 

Afr) at a ; H 3 Oo a) pe ° 7) S e) gL a a 

a"; ets] ¢13/8) 8s; sisje)/8)48)]e¢) e156 4 

Glaael ee [61 BS PB ee) ed Se be ae y 

Masi ate Sse 106 |10 | 1 |16 1 | 2 15 |/2|2 49 
ABR ae ode oN ee ele 99 | 5 4 | 3 4 17 4 
Pe os ew exes 55 14 4 I E|.9° 4-2 21 4 
PEGE w 55855 ok rey ores 67 | 5 8 3 4 I 21 a 
September. 2.058%... 87 |/9]1 | 8 I 5 I 3 | 2e 4 
Terianet Oa ene 27 TS and ey 7 20° 8 
November... ... Jé2 68 | 6 , I 4 I | 19 
December jis - «ms gids oo ie. 3 Il oe 
ae ee en 63 II 2 I 4 18 
PG IUAIYV. bs u's oe hs ee ej 6 4 17 
WAARODY 5's Oe tie os fe} 52423 2 I 4 I | 1° 
PONT Ln Sikas <a 73| 8 5-p 4 I 4 19 


YOUNG MEN’S MEETING. 


The history of our Saturday night meeting for years past shows that those who are 
constant in their attendance upon it cannot fail to receive blessing and be helpful in the. 
way of life. 

We would therefore urge active and associate members who are not occupied on 
that evening to join us in this household gathering. ‘‘ Come thou with us and we will _ 
do thee good.” | 

We have to report a slight falling off in the attendance, the average for the year 
being 89, but, by our position, many of our active members are engaged in similar 
church work. 

While we are desirous of keeping up our numbers, we are more anxious that good 
work may be done toward those who do attend, and to this end we try to make all our q 
meetings of an evangelistic character. At the close of the exercise we endeavor to 
single out such young men as are strangers or enquirers, and have a short conversation 
with them. Good results have followed these efforts. 

Rey. J. Hudson Taylor addressed our meeting in the parlor, on August Ist. His i 
words, and those of the friends accompanying him, still linger with us, and the 4 


= i es eae 


om 
4 


29 


missionary spirit which he inspired us with has led to the establishment ot a Missionary 
Committee in connection with our Association. Let us go forth into the coming year 
with renewed purpose to make the work of this Committee a greater success. 


G. S. RorkKg, 
Chairman. 


SUNDAY MORNING BIBLE CLASS. 


In presenting this report, the Committee would express their thankfulness to God 
for having permitted them to engage in another year’s labor. During one part ot 
the winter our numbers decreased till we had only an average attendance of 2 5, which 
greatly discouraged us. We were led to make a thorough investigation, and facts 
came to light to show that we had not been doing our duty, and as the result of united 
work and prayer, we now have an attendance of over 50. This part of the Associa- 
tion work demands constant watchfulness. The hour of meeting is very unfavorable 
to a great many young men. During the past few months the Secretary has handed 
to us the names of enquirers, and these are visited personally by some of the Com- 
mittee and if possible induced to attend our class, if not going elsewhere. We hope 
by doing so to strengthen them in their new life, and if any have not fully decided 
for Christ, we try to have them come to a decision. At the commencement of the 
year 1888, this Committee decided to send a delegate to the Convention that would 
meet in Philadelphia in May, 1889. With this end in view, each man contributed 
25 cents per month until the required amount was reached. We hoped by doing 
this we would in some way bring a blessing to the work at large. Last May, Mr. 
Corbett assumed the leadership of this Class, and his labors have been abundantly 
blessed, both to himself and others; let me ask for him your prayers that he may 
have the guidance of the Holy Spirit in leading the younger Christians to higher 
attainments in the Christian life. This is the aim of our Class, and our lessons are 
chosen accordingly. At present we are studying the characters of the Bible. As to 
the results of our year’s work, they are known only to Him who readeth the hearts 
ofall. We are satisfied to leave them with Him. 


J. WILson, 
Chatrman. 


SUNDAY AFTERNOON BIBLE CLASS. 


The average weekly attandance has increased during the year from 85 to 125. 
On the seventh of April high water mark was reached when 148 were present. This 
remarkable increase is due, no doubt, to the recently inaugurated card registration 
system, which is as follows: A card with blank spaces for name and address is handed 
to each person as he enters the class-room. These cards are collected, after being 
filled in, and taken charge of by the Attendance Secretary, who enters the same in his 
register, taking note of the absence of anyone who had been present on the preceding 
Sabbath. When the absentee has been away twice in succession the Secretary writes 


30 


inviting him to attend on the next Sunday. If this fails another and different letter is 
sent, and in the event of this not being responded to by his attendance at the class on 
the following Sabbath, or otherwise, a memo. is mailed to one of our Committeemen or 
other active member attending the class, who calls upon the absent one to learn the 
reason of-his non-attendance, and if not connected with some other Bible Class is again 
invited. The result of this visit is reported to the Attendance Secretary. 

For many reasons this method is specially adapted for a class such as ours, yet to 
be properly maintained it involves considerable labor, the amount of which can be in 
a measure understood when the number of letters written to absentees during March 
alone ran up to 176. 3 

The main feature, the lessons, which have been so practically applied, has 
unquestionably resulted in the conversion to and education in the Christian Life of 
many of the Members of the Class. It is also a grand school for those intending 
entering upon Christian work. The training here received is so thorough in its nature 
that our class members are in demand as Sunday-school teachers, no less than seven 
having left us since January to undertake this work. The mode of conduct is con- 
versational and evangelistic in its character, which has a tendency to draw forth the 
ideas of the Class Members. 

The introduction of a monthly question drawer has proved a success. 

Another new departure in connection with our Class is the Monthly Collection, 
the object being to provide the Committee with the means to enable them to 
materially aid sick and needy members and to supply them with delicacies, &c., and _ 
also to be able, independently of the Association’s funds, to send delegates to the 
different conventions and for such other purposes as in the Committee’s discretion 
seemed proper. 

The formation of a special sub-committee for visiting sick members of the Class 
is of recent date. This sub-committee has rendered very efficient service. 

Pleasant re-union sociables were held in October and April, which were largely 
attended. 

The thanks of the Committee are due and are hereby tendered to Mr. Walmsley, 
who has very kindly officiated as organist during the year. 

The following are but samples of the many testimonies received as to the good 
being done through this Class :— 

‘¢T eagerly look forward to our Sunday Ciass as a time of great spiritual refresh- 
ment and where I am sure of receiving increased strength to perform the duties 
assigned me during the following week.” 

‘*Tt was at this Class that I was first led to publicly acknowledge my Saviour, 
and where the first real light was shed into my path.” 7 

‘* J have been greatly benefited and blessed in attending the Class. It has given 
me a greater interest in Bible study, which has been very helpful to me in my 
Christian life.” 

On behalf of the Committee, 
FRANK D. RITCHIE, 
Chairman. 


31 
RECEPTION COMMITTEE. 


The Reception Committee has charge of the Rooms every evening from 7.30 to 
10. The members on duty receiving strangers and associate members with a few 
words of welcome and a hearty hand shake, making them feel perfectly at home 
while in the Association, giving: them any information which they may desire and 
inviting them to attend the regular meetings, and as opportunities present themselves, 
speaking to them personally as to their soul’s welfare. As an average of 45 attend the 
reading room each evening, the importance of this work is at once seen, although the 
results are very often in the future under the care of ‘‘ Him whose word never returns 
unto him void.”’ 

While on duty during the past year the committee has asked 86 young men to 
join the Association, 62 of whom have accepted the invitation and joined. Two 
hundred and thirty-one invitations have been extended to the regular meetings, 31 
strangers from other associations have been met and welcomed, 29 signatures have 
been added to the pledge book and 16 young men were spoken to personally con- 
cerning their eternal salvation. Among other duties the Committee has as often as 
possible closed the rooms with reading a portion of scripture and prayer. An average 
attendance of eight shows this not only to be practical but profitable. Besides placing 
two members on duty almost every evening the Committee has provided ushers for 
the Monthly Socials, ‘‘ Talks to Young Men,” and the Anniversary Meeting, when 
they placed 12 men on duty. On being asked to provide ushers for the evening 
meetings of the Dominion Evangelical Alliance, the Committee provided eight men 
each evening, as they also did at the anti-Jesuit Meeting held lately in the Queen’s 
Hall. The Committee have had some correspondence with the Toronto Reception 
Committee ; sent two delegates to the Inter-Provincial Convention held at Ottawa, 
and sent Mr. Jno. R. Terrill asa delegate to the Philadelphia Convention, two others 
of the Committee also attending. 

The practical results of this work may still be unseen, yet we feel certain that 
work done honestly and prayerfully for the Master and in His name must bear fruit to 


His glory. 
Joun W. Ross, 


Chairman. 


‘SOCIAL WORK. 

The co-operation of the Churches have added very much to the success attending 
our efforts. 

We acknowledge the bountiful provision of refreshments by the ladies of the 
following churches, and also their presence at the regular Monthly Social to 
serve the same : 

October, Erskine Presbyterian; November, Olivet Baptist; December, New 
Year’s Reception ; January, Crescent Presbyterian; February, Reports Ottawa 
Convention; March, First Baptist; April, Sherbrooke Street Methodist. 

The addresses by the ministers of those churches were very practical and calcu- 


ated to stimulate*to Christian effort. 


32 


The stereopticon views of the Yosemite Valley, kindly exhibited and explained’ 
by Rev. Dr. Wells, were very instructive as well as entertaining. 

Other features of this work are omitted for want of space, and all who have: 
tendered their services have the hearty thanks of the Association. 


CHESLEY Woops, 
Chatrman. 


“EXCELSIOR” SNOW SHOE CLUB. 


We have had a very pleasant and successful season, having taken weekly tramps 
from the beginning of November until the snow left usin April. We had one “ ladies’ 
night,” which was greatly enjoyed by members of the club. Those who tramped 
over the mountain every Friday evening have no regret for the time thus spent, because 
we believe it resulted in renewed physical vigor, and consequently gave fresh life 
mentally and spiritually. We feel that there are some members of the Association 
who seek their physical recreation amid less healthy surroundings, which would not 
be the case, perhaps, if we had a gymnasium and grounds of our own; our Outing 
Committee are therefore unable to hold together those who ought to be congenial and 
companionable associates. We expect to have a ‘‘field day” in the district of 
Calumet in June. The Outing Committee will be glad to meet any who desire to. 
engage in field sports or rambles, and will endeavour to make them interesting. 


G. W. JONEs, 
Chatrmuian. 


STRANGERS’ TEA. 


With a few interruptions the Strangers’ Tea has been continued throughout the. 
past year, on Sunday afternoons, from § to 6.30. 

Many thanks are due to our lady friends who have kept us constantly supplied 
with cake and preserves, often without solicitation. 

Perhaps no meeting in the Association has been more instrumental in “‘ getting. 
hold” of young men than this. We know of those whose conversions have occurred 
as aresult.. Quite a number have been introduced to Church homes. 

The Committee has had the pleasure of coming personally in contact with over 
500 young men during the year, most of whom had just arrived in the City. 

The last Sunday evening of 1888 over 40 young men who were away from home, 
sat down to a Christmas dinner. These represented all parts of the world. 

Weare anxiously looking forward to the time when we will have better accomoda-- ~ 
tion to carry on this important feature of the work. 

J. WILSON, ® 
Chatruian. 


33 


INVITATION WORK. 


During the past year the, Invitation Committee has sought through its different 
channels to invite the young men of this city to our Religious meetings, and place 
before them the different meetings of the Association. On the average nine have been 
engaged in distributing Invitations on the street corners in the vicinity of the Building, 
and the principal hotels, on Saturday night ; also an average of four have distributed 
Invitations for the Sabbath afternoon Bible Class. Interesting results from this work 
have come to our knowledge, but space does not permit to give them in detail. 

The ‘* Take one” Boxes in the hotels, etc. have proved a good work during the 
past year. Although we cannot see many results yet we have God’s promise that His 
word shall not return void. A Christian young man just arrived from the Old 
Country, knowing nothing of our Association, took out of the Box in the C. P. R. 
Waiting Room an Invitation Card, which was the means of introducing him to the 
Association, and he is now one of the most faithful members of this Committee. 

We have not been able to accomplish the desired aim amongst the commercial 
young men of the city, but we hope this summer to more fully enter into this import- 
ant work. During the past year 53,000 Invitation Cards have been distributed. The 
number of members on roll of Committee is 19. 

During the year the members subscribed sufficient funds to send Mr. Ascah a 
delegate to the International Convention. Some of the older members of the Com- 
mittee have noticed the great decrease in the number of young men passing the 
Association during the evenings, as compared with four or five years ago; a proof of 
the necessity of having our Buiding where the young men are. 


S. MUIRHEAD, 
Chatrman. 


TRACT DISTRIBUTION AMONG THE SAILORS. 


This work commenced Sunday morning, May 6th. Meeting in the Sailors’ 
Institute at 7.45 a.m., prayer being offered on behalf of the work. 

Our field of labor extends from Windmill Point to Hochelaga, which is divided up 
into sections of two or more workers, each having a section under his charge. The 
attendance throughout the summer has been the best we have had for the past few 
years, showing that the young men are taking a greater interest in this large field of 
labor. The average attendance has been from twelve to fifteen workers, not includ- 
ing the workers of St. Stephen’s Church, who kindly undertook to do the canal work. 
We cannot say what the results from this service are, but we know that it affords a 
grand opportunity for sowing the seed, and for naming in contact with so large a class 
of men in the ministry of the Gospel. 

WILLIAM LAw, 
Chairman. 


34 


FOREIGN MISSION BAND. 


During the past year, this work was organized. We give a brief outline of its 
origin. 

Through the visit to this city of Rev. J. Hudson Taylor and Mr. Wilder of the 
Students’ movement, a missionary spirit was kindled in the hearts of some of our 
Active members, and resulted in twenty-two young men agreeing to subscribe 25 cents 
per week toa Foreign Mission Fund. These formed themselves into a band with 
the cbject of furthering the gospel in foreign lands. 

Ist. By seeking to create amongst our members a missionary spirit through 
monthly meetings, at wihch papers and addresses on missionary subjects shall be 
delivered. 

2nd. By giving our members an opportunity to subscribe to the Foreign Mission 
Fund, the object of which shall be to send out and support men in the Foreign Field. 

Three Public meetings have already been held and papers read as follows :— 

“The China Inland Mission,’’ S. Muirhead. ‘‘ Japan,” Fred N. McCallum. 
“ Star Light in Asia,” Rev. J. H. MacVicar, B.A. 

The number of members at present subscribing to the Fund is 27, but we hope 
to greatly exceed that number. 

The Financial Statement is as follows :— 


CASH, DR. 
To amount subscribed by members to May 23rd, 1889........$106 00 


POU SE COMALICO. 5's oem. s sys a pints eb e os wien a dee i. 10O" OO 
$206 00 
CR. 
PORE Bas ie SE Bil 5 Fe ols ie Speen ee Pe $4 87 
Pree Fs eke 29s 8 Na isis ek bbe aie ey ene 4 90 
ee OMT 
PALAU GE AO. 7c os yi've BL alee wa pee $196 23 


ROBERT MCMURTRIE, 
Chairman. 


e 2 
=: 
, 


FORM OF BEQUEST. _ 
ae 4 hereby give and bequeath to the YOUNG ME NS CHRISTIAN 
“ASSOCIA TION of Montreal, a Caporaiios duly established 3 since} the Laws of the 
: Pans of Quebec, the sunt of ont. ae See ene =o aS eee Pay ae Dillan 
and the receipt of the Treasurer thereof shall bid sufficient discharge to my Executors 


for the same: 


2% » ~ 
yi PDS 3 


bees 


