el i 


a ~~ 


OTs Ne ee 


ONE HUNDRED AND TWELFTH YEAR 


eee - young: men’s S 
oe S christian 
= Ps 


ANNUAL REPORT OF 
THE YMCA IN GREATER MONTREAL 


INCLUDING 
MONTREAL’S SHARE IN THE 
INTERNATIONAL AND NATIONAL WORK 


The Board of Directors takes pleasure in submitting 
to the members the Annual Report of The Young Men's 
Christian Association of Montreal for the year ending 


May 31st, 1964. 


This report ‘covers matters affecting the Montreal 
Association as a whole. Detailed reports of all bran- 
ches, and Schools have been submitted and approved 
at their respective meetings and are included in the 


records of each branch. 


THE YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION 


METROPOLITAN OFFICES 
1441 DRUMMOND STREET 


Downtown Branch 
1441 Drummond Street 


International Branch 
5550 Park Avenue 


Lachine-Dorval Branch 
3955 Provost Street 
Lachine 


Lakeshore Branch 
170 St. Louis Avenue 
Pointe Claire 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY 


1435 DRUMMOND STREET 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS SCHOOLS 


1435 DRUMMOND STREET 


Evening High School 
Business School 


OF MONTREAL 


Northmount Branch 
1455 Rochon Street 
Montreal 9 


Notre Dame de Grace Branch 
4335 Hampton Avenue 


Verdun-LaSalle Branch 
7105 LaSalle Boulevard 
Verdun 


Westmount Branch 
4585 Sherbrooke Street 
Westmount 


School of Art 
School of Retailing 


Elementary School 


CAMPS 


Kamp Kanawana 


Camp Otoreke 


St. Sauveur, Quebec St. Adolphe de Howard, Quebec 
Voyageurs de la Verendrye YMCA Ski Lodge 
La Verendrye Park, Quebec Camp Otoreke 

St. Adolphe de Howard, Quebec 


INDEX 


PAGE 
MEMBERSHIP 1 
HIGHLIGHTS OF 1963 Z 
VOLUNTEER LEADERSHIP 4 
FELLOWSHIP TRAINING 5 
BOYS AND GIRLS 5 
TEEN 6 
CAMPS FOR BOYS AND GIRLS it 
YOUNG ADULTS 8 
YMCA LAURENTIAN YOUNG ADULT WINTER LODGE 9 
PHYSICAL 9 
SENIOR SERVICE CLUBS 10 
INDUSTRIAL MANAGEMENT CLUBS 10 
OTOREKE SUMMER LODGE 10 
SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY 10 
SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS SCHOOLS 14 
FINANCE AND PROPERTY La 
WORLD SERVICE 20 
INTERNATIONAL AND NATIONAL WORK LL 
PERSONNEL 23 
OBITUARY 24 
APPRECIATION 25 
METROPOLITAN OFFICERS at 


THE YEAR IN STATISTICS 29 


MebeM Bois R Si LP 


The year end showed a total of 32, 786 members enrolled. 
In addition, there were 1176 registered non-members 
participating in various specific activities during the year, 
while a total of 5247 campers were enrolled. This included 
2221 resident campers and 3026 in Summer day camps. 
Different individual members in 1963 reached a total of 
54,275 with the campers included. The figures below do 
not include camp enrollment or registered non-members. 


Different members Total at 
Membership by Branches during the year Dec. 31, 1963 
Downtown 13, 248 6, 274 
Lakeshore 4, 368 2,428 
International 3,001 | pes ays 
Notre Dame de Grace 3, 049 1, 504 
Northmount 778 
Lachine -Dorval 1, 742 918 
Westmount iPS PIET 944 
Verdun La Salle 818 702 
Sir George Williams University 20, 985 17, 885 
and Sir George Williams Schools 
TOTAL 49, 028, 32, 786 
By Sex 

Male 22, 749 
Female LO, Osi, 
By Age Per Cent By Age Per Cent 
under 12 3568 10,9 25 - 29 4490 Lot 
12 - 14 1039 352 30 - 34 2706 Gao 
libres 17 2099 Sind 35 & up 3914 ‘IANS, 
18 - 24 13607 41.5 unknown 663 Zi. 0 


ai = 


RiGHLiGH TS OF 196 5 
PROGRAM PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT 


This was a year of study, planning, experimentation and innovation. 
All branches launched programs of study to determine how each 
could best serve the needs of their communities within the frame- 
work of YMCA goals. The study and planning process undertaken 
during this period will have important long-term benefits. The 
Montreal YMCA, at both City-wide and branch levels is now 
better equipped to keep pace with the City's dramatic growth and 
active change. 


Immediate results feature a stepped-up "reaching-out'' develop- 
ment in the suburban branches evidenced by the formation of 
District Boards at Lakeshore and Northmount, and improved inter - 
branch cooperation. Two notable examples of the latter were in 
the areas of leaders' training and physical education. 


MEMBERSHIP 


The number of different persons who were members at the end of 
1963 reached a new high of 32, 786 for a 13 per cent increase over 
the previous year. 


HI-Y CLUB PROGRAM 


A total of 48 Hi-Y Clubs were active in the Montreal area this year. 
The Clubs vary in size from eight to twenty-five members, with 
the average size being about fifteen members. 


Hi-Y in Montreal is seen as an opportunity for self-development 
towards more competency as a person and the achievement of 
leadership skills. Most of the Montreal Hi-Y clubs are no longer 
school centered in the sense that they used to be. Rather, they 
are YMCA centered with most of the club meetings being held in 
homes or the YMCA building. There is still a close relationship 
in most cases with the high-schools, however, since, recruiting 
for new clubs is done through after-school assemblies. 


The outstanding highlight of the year was the Hi-Y Eastern Work- 
shop held at the Far Hills Inn, Val Morin, Quebec, sponsored by 
the Montreal YMCA. It brought together 132 Hi-Y members and 
27 staff leaders from Eastern Ontario and Quebec. The workshop 
lived up to its billing as a "human relations laboratory experience'' 
having given participants an opportunity to learn more about them- 
selves and the groups in which they were members. 


PHYSICAL AND HEALTH EDUCATION 


The Montreal YMCA continued to provide high standards of leader- 
ship and activity in the area of Physical and Health Education 
throughout the year. Physical Education is a vital interest of the 
YMCA in its concern for the whole individual. Combining excel- 
lent facilities and highly-trained leaders the YMCA is uniquely 
suited to set high standards and provide leadership for the entire 
community. 


In 1963 Physical and Health Education program continued to 
feature extensive training and leadership development on a city- 
wide basis. Three important events of the year were the Aquatic 
Leaders Training session held at the Downtown Branch, the 
Leader's Corps Training programs held at the International 
Branch, and the three day testing and exercise clinic of Dr. T.K. 
Cureton which was sponsored by the Downtown Branch's Business 
Men's Health Club. 


DOWNTOWN RESIDENCE 


During the year 1, 244 different persons accepted weekly-rates for 
periods of from two-weeks to two-years; while 24, 080 persons 
registered for overnight accommodation and stayed 46, 561 nights. 
153, 464 bed nights were recorded for the whole year, making an 
average occupancy of 420 every night. 


The Residence continues to serve and is the meeting place and 
centre for YMCA Members from all over the world. The signifi- 
cant population of the next generation is not going to be rural, or 
even suburban -- it is going to be increasingly urban. It is the 
youth of this generation and many immigrants who arrive each day 
from overseas, as well as the hundreds of transients with whom 
ee” WELL, WOE owen xe oa me or it will not work at all. 


USSR EXCHANGE VISIT 


For six days the Montreal YMCA was host to the four Russian 
delegates in Canada representing their country in the Canadian 
YMCA and USSR Committee on Youth Organizations 1963 Exchange 
Visit. Vic Hryhorchuk, Executive Secretary of Lachine-Dorval 
Branch was a member of the Canadian delegation that went to 
Russia. 


The purposes of the exchange program were: 


1. To further our understanding of the role of youth and of 
youth organizations in a Communist society in general and 
in the Soviet Union in particular. 


2. To study the specific programs, organizational methods and 
techniques and underlying ideological basis of the Soviet 
Union Youth Organizations. 


3. To relate all this to the program, operation and objectives 
of the Canadian YMCA. 


4. To convey to our opposite numbers in the Soviet Youth 
Organization a clear understanding of the objectives, pro- 
gram, methods and techniques of the Canadian YMCA and 
its underlying ideological basis. 


5. To provide a channel for the development of closer person- 
to-person relationships between youth of our two countries. 


6. To provide a basis for an expanded program of international 
understanding and public affairs within the Canadian YMCA. 


ont 


ROTARY LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT 


The Rotary Club of Montreal in cooperation with twenty-five other City 
organizations interested in youth conducted an experiment in leader - 
ship development in the period January 27 - March 2, 1964. They 
brought together fifty-six teenagers (15-19 years) to participate ina 
group-centered experience of leadership development. 


The goals of this experiment were to develop better methods of encourag- 
ing young people to take positive leadership roles in the community and 
assist youth organizations in developing stronger leaders. 


Rix Rogers of the YMCA was staff coordinator and 50% of the leaders 
came from the Senior Secretarial ranks of the YMCA. The meetings 
were held in YMCA facilities. 


NORTHSHORE YOUTH SEMINAR 


Northmount and Lakeshore Branches were jointly directly involved in 
organizing a seminar of 30 teenagers to consider the physical, mental, 
spiritual and social needs of the youth today and to determine the needs 
that are met and unmet by existing services and organizations on the 
Northshore. The February 1964 session was under the auspices of 
Mayor LaBelle of Pierrefonds. 


LAKESHORE SKI SCHOOL 


During the winter of 1964, 1,300 youthful enthusiasts and 300 adults 
participated weekly in one of the largest ski-school programs operated 
in Canada -- the Lakeshore YMCA Ski School Program. 


V OOEPUN Dn Eh sic a De Rs HP 


Volunteer service in the YMCA has been a fundamental YMCA concept 
since the Association was founded in London, England in 1844. For 
many years, in fact, ''volunteers'' were the only leaders that the YMCA 
knew. 


A most important challenge faces the Montreal YMCA today. Young 
people must be challenged to serve to learn the richness that comes 
from giving of oneself to a cause that is greater in scope than the 
individual's self-interest, made difficult in today's world with a variety 
of bewildering forces at work. 


In the Association a concentrated effort is being made to cope with these 
forces. In 1963 several programs were initiated within branches and 
on a city-wide basis to provide meaningful experiences in personal and 
leadership development for large numbers of teens and young adults now 
serving the Montreal YMCA. These took the form of Human Relations 
Laboratories and discussion seminars during week-end periods, and 
sometimes longer period where this was possible. Included were 
intensive retreats for adult club advisors, Hi-Y members and junior 
leaders of physical education programs. 


Expectant results of an enriched leadership program are twofold. First, 


the many persons now rendering volunteer service to the Association 
may find new meaning and new conviction in the responsibilities that 


moe See 


they assume and, in turn, bring resource and direction to the work of 
the Montreal YMCA, 


Secondly, as volunteer service continues to become more and more 
meaningful, a much enlarged number of volunteers will become inter - 
ested in helping the Association meet the ever increasing needs it 
faces. 


In 1963 concern with the problems of the new volunteer was intensified, 
and this emphasis will be sustained and increased in the period ahead. 
A total number of 4,014 persons gave volunteer leadership to the YMCA 
this past year. 


THE MON, TREA LEER LLOW SHIP TRAINING PLAN 


The Montreal YMCA has given leadership to the training of YMCA 
secretaries in Canada for many years. 


The program called the Fellowship program, provides those full-time 
students at Sir George Williams University, preparing for a YMCA 
career with a combined work-study program under the direction ofa 
Staff officer. Forty-six students participated this past year. Students 
come from every part of Canada. Of fourteen graduating students: 


1 entered a business career 
1 is continuing his education in a Master's program 


l was appointed Canadian Junior World Service worker 
in Lebanon 


6 joined the staff of the Montreal YMCA 
3 joined the staffs of other Canadian YMCAs 
2 joined the staff of Sir George Williams University 


In recent years the Plan has been under study and review culminating 
in 1963 in some major modifications. A new scheme providing more 
flexibility for the individual student was introduced. New emphasis on 
special training programs is now an important feature. 


The most significant change in the Plan is the addition of the Training 
Fellow category which provides an intensive field work and weekly 
training program for selected students in their final year of university. 
An important goal is to help the student prepare for his first full-time 
position in the YMCA and to make the transition from the academic 
world to the professional world as effectively as possible. 


BOYS AND GIRLS 


In this category falls activities for bays and girls 9 - 14 years of age. 
In 1963 the total membership was included in this age group. 


What Children Need.... 


Healthy YMCA programs for this age group include special interest and 
skill groups where the children may learn to handle new materials and 


ee 


and activities; large-group experiences, with some rules and regu- 
lations; small-group activity with free selection of goals and a great 
deal of spontaneous, creative program; and quiet times when a child 
may read a book, engage in individual hobbies, or just think things 
through. 


What Children Do.... 


Hockey teams, baseball, football, floor hockey, basketball, general 
gym classes, and swim instruction were a big part of the general junior 
program in branches. 


The interest of many in this age group is astounding. Recreation pro- 
gram certainly cannot be excluded...but they are equally eager for 
creative expression, museum trips, and art exhibits. Individual 
crafts, hobbies, and dramatics absorb large numbers. 


Boys and Girls Love To Join A 'Club'.... 


Friendship and Gra-Y clubs continue to play a major part in the chil- 
dren's activities. Groups of boys or girls from 9 - 12 meet under the 
guidance of a volunteer leader in a home, a school, or the oye wach 
club, under its own elected officers, plans programs of special interest 
to its members. 


In addition to the small group activities, clubs come together on joint 
projects such as Penny Carnival, Easter and Christmas baskets for 
"shut-ins", bean feed suppers, bus trips, Father and Son or Mother 
and Daughter Banquets, and team competitions. 


TEEN 


In keeping with the recommendations of the 1959-60 Planning Committee 
Report, the emphasis in teen program throughout 1963 has continued to 
be directed to development of close-knit friendship groups and the 
training of leadership within the groups themselves. 


The central problem of the adolescent is to clarify who he or she is and 
what their role in society is to be. This problem finds expression in 
the usual process of questioning the values, attitudes, and behaviour of 
earlier years. 


The 'Y' is, perhaps, most able to serve teenagers by helping them 
establish a clear idea of what and who they are, and work out their 
Values for Living, through guided peer group experiences. Cohesive 
groups based on friendships where each person can be known and trusted 
as an individual are the most effective for promoting teenage growth. 


In Notre Dame de Grace, Verdun-LaSalle, Lachine-Dorval, Northmount 
and International Branches the officers of teen clubs were assisted in 
organizing discussions and workshops on the principles and methods of 
how to be a good club president, treasurer, secretary, etc. 


Clubs Develop in Several Community Branches 


Teenagers have enthusiastically accepted responsibilities to organize 
their own club programs, to set up club study projects on community 


«@s 


affairs, education, study habits, and soon. Club officers have partici- 
pated in programs of officers and leadership training to enhance their 
capabilities within their present club role and to acquire ideas to carry 
into adulthood. 


Several Kinds of Teen Clubs 


In each branch, club formation has taken several forms, each an answer 
to the needs of particular teen groups and the particular community. 
Most are boys and girls separately; some are a mixture of school and 
working youths; some are exclusively one or the other. 


Social Recreation for Teenagers 


Club program is but one aspect of teen activities. Throughout 1963 
attendance at teen dances, parties, social events, etc. was 70,793. 


Physical Fitness For Teenagers 


A further aspect of teen program is the physical activities which take a 
great part of their energy..... archery, badminton, gymnastics, teams, 
figure-skating, bowling, basketball, swimming, hockey, and softball. 


Cla UMS. FOUR. BuO} YoS. AON De Gr TR: i 


Kamp Kanawana 


602 boys attended Kanawana and Les Voyageurs de la Verendrye in 1963, 
led by 75 young men, most of whom were college students and graduates. 
The past year has now confirmed Les Voyageurs as a highly accepted 
camp program for boys, ages 14-16. 


An orientation program for parents of new Kanawana campers involving 
5 meetings was an important innovation. 


419 swimming tests were passed at Kanawana in 1963 indicating a lively 
interest in water-front program. 20 five-day canoe trips were taken by 
the older campers during the season in areas north of the camp which 
provide wilderness camping experiences. 


Kamp Kanawana has long been known as a canoe tripping camp as 187 
boys passed the canoe tests this season. 


Every boy has the opportunity for one or more one to five-day hikes 
during his stay. Last summer there were 147 such hikes involving 
distances of one to forty miles, depending on age of the campers. Even 
the youngest campers go on at least one overnight hike. 


Les Voyageurs explored more new tripping areas in and around Park de 
la Verendrye. A permanent base camp was established by virtue of a 
25 acre lease obtained through the co-operation of the Quebec govern- 
ment. The base provides a jumping-off-spot for trips ranging in dis- 
tance of 10 to 150 miles in length, taken at a leisurely pace, planned by 
the Voyageurs and their counsellors. Besides canoe tripping, variety 
is introduced by trips to fire towers and lumber camps. One group 
during a five-day confinement to base camp because of fire hazard, 
constructed a birch bark teepee 20 feet in height and 32 foot diameter, 
which provided ideal living accommodation. 


me a 


Summer Programs for Boys and Girls in the City 


Day camps and summer fun clubs were operated by seven branches 
during the summer of 1963 for fun and learning. 


Lakeshore and Lachine-Dorval Branches used the Camp Perrot site on 
Lake St. Louis, and Northmount operated at its excellent Lake of Two 
Mountains location. Here, ''campers'' spent the day building teepees, 
leantos, making cook-outs, and engaging in all the fascinations of 
Indian council lore. These are all the experiences of a regular resi- 
dent camp and yet the youngsters return home in time for supper. 


Summer Fun Clubs were operated by International, Northmount, West- 
mount, Verdun-LaSalle, and Notre Dame de Grace. This is a three or 
five-day a week program of special outings, picnics, crafts, plant 
visits, competitive events, and recreational games. 


There were 3,026 children enrolled in the Day Camps and Summer Fun 
Clubs with a total program attendance of 29, 335 over the seven-week 
period through July and August. 


Leadership for this work comes out of branch staffs and is supplemented 
with experienced leaders from our own University YMCA Fellowship 
Training group, and specially skilled people for certain crafts instruction. 
In addition, volunteer leaders include college and high school students 

and mothers of participating boys and girls. 


V0 USN GA. Deu." Fs 
ADULT PROGRAM 


Young men and women between the ages of 18 and 25 is by far the 
largest single age group served by the 'Y' in Montreal. The Evening 
High School, Elementary School, School of Retailing, Business School, 
and University account for 17, 885 members alone, being served with 
vitally-needed formal education programs at all levels and supplemented 
with a vast extra-curricular student government and club program. 


Adult program committees and councils have continued to take more 
responsibility for their own activities. For these kind of persons the 
great need is to find within the YMCA a setting in which their educational 
background can be employed in creative expression and new intellectual 
challenge. 


Adult Education Courses 


At Lakeshore, Central, Westmount, Lachine, Northmount, Notre Dame 
de Grace branches, there have been informal education courses offered 
on specific subjects. These courses are designed to provide quality 
instruction under competent leadership, and have dealt with subjects 
ranging from French Conversation to Contract Bridge. 


International Branch continued to provide English language courses for 
New Canadians and others....In recent years courses were critically 
reviewed, new language lab teaching materials acquired, and the 
standard of the whole education project improved. 


For Adults with Hobby Interests... 


Under the general heading of 'hobbies', for the leisure interests of 
adults, there was increased attendance in classes and clubs in such 
subjects as: oil painting, photography, leathercraft, ceramics, 
smocking, and millinery. 


A variety of clubs, self-governing in nature, but centered around a 
common interest, included camera club, outing club, glee club, music 
appreciation, film club, table tennis club. 


Education Travel 


Following the success of ''Europe 61'' another Downtown ''Y'"' Educational 
Program to Europe was approved for 1963 with extensive planning as 
part of the program. 


The chartered flight left Montreal on August 3rd and consisted of 131 
people with 32 taking part in the tours. Twenty-five people under the 
guidance of Lloyd Ring took the Southern Tour, while six others with 
Niles Ring followed the Northern Route. 


YMCA LAURENTIAN YOUNG ADULT WINTER LODGE 


This is a new lodge located at the site of the Otoreke Summer Lodge. 
New people were involved and a more extensive program than the former 
Christieville Ski Lodge was featured. 


A management group made up of lodge members organized and conducted 
the whole program with the staff person remaining in the background as 
counsellor. The capacity of the Lodge is 60. 


PHYSICAL 


Physical program in 'Y's' across the city in 1963 included figure- 
skating clubs, golf schools in four branches, skiing instruction, archery, 
wrestling, swimming, ornamental swimming, diving, football, and soft- 
ball. Enrollment in teams and leagues was 50, 056. 


Branches ran 'learn-to-swim' programs for children in the spring, with 
community branches coming by charter bus to pools at Westmount, 
Verdun-LaSalle, International, and Downtown. 976 persons learned to 
swim during the year. In regular pool programs 7, 448 were enrolled 
for swims and 4, 438 progressive swim tests were awarded, ranging 
from beginners to life-saving. 


Gymnasium activities enrolled 4, 704 persons during the year. In this 
category are included junior gym programs, judo groups, leaders corps 
trainees, (boys and girls), squash, gymnastics, body-building, and 
wrestling. 


Physical Fitness For Executives 


Increased interest in the business men's membership continued and the 
physical departments have acted during the past three years to revamp 
almost every aspect of men's program to provide individualized fitness 
training schemes in line with modern recommendations. 


oe 


SENIOR SERVICE CLUBS 
"Y's Men'"'s Clubs 


This is the senior men's service club of the YMCA of which there are 
three duly chartered clubs in the Montreal Association -- The Verdun 
'Y's Men's Club, the Notre Dame de Grace Club, and the newly-formed 
club at Lakeshore. 


Besides the opportunity for individual growth and development, these 
clubs contribute much by way of financial assistance and leadership to 
the program of the YMCA members. 


They have raised funds for World Service, given time to committees 
within their branches, leadership to clubs and activities for younger 
members, and taken on important assignments in the Annual Finance 
Campaign. 


INDUSTRIAL MANAGEMENT CLUBS OF CANADA (Montreal Chapter) 


The Montreal Chapter of the Industrial Management Clubs of Canada is 
not only the largest club in numbers of its kind in Canada but one of the 
most enthusiastic. The members who completely organize and operate 
their own club affairs play a vital role at provincial and national levels. 
As in past years, several members of the club helped in the organi- 
zation of the National Conference of I.M.C.'s in Toronto. A new 
venture this year was a one day seminar entitled ''The Foreman's Job in 
preserving Management Rights and Maintaining Discipline" held at the 
Downtown YMCA, The seminar, conducted in French and English 
attracted some one hundred and three men from all over the province of 
Quebec. A Program Secretary of the Downtown Branch is the liaison 
officer with this group. 


OTOREKE SUMMER LODGE FOR ADULTS 


One of the most interesting summer extensions of the YMCA program 
with adults can be found in the island vacation camp community at 
Otoreke. Campers are caught up in a diversified program planned and 
directed by a responsible committee from their ranks, that includes 
swimming, canoeing, canoe tripping, hiking, badminton, tennis, volley- 
ball and other out-door sports, as well as many social activities. 


644 women and 718 male campers comprised the camp population, 
coming chiefly from Montreal with some from much farther afield. 
More and more use is made of the site as a Spring and Fall conference 
centre for Young Adult groups. During the summer season, visitors 
and recent immigrants to Canada from over forty countries of the 
world find themselves in this camp community, providing an important 
cultural ineraction so vital in today's world. 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY 
DEVELOPMENT AND EXPANSION 


The Henry F. Hall Building 


Demolition on the site of the new $23, 900, 000 building commenced in 
December 1963. At the ground breaking ceremonies which followed in 


See 


April 1964, the Chancellor announced that the new building would be 
known as ''The Henry F. Hall Building", and the existing premises on 
Drummond Street would henceforth be known as the ''Kenneth E. Norris 
Building", in memory of the revered late Principal. 


With completion scheduled for 1966, the Henry F. Hall Building will 
enable the university to increase its enrollment to 5,000 full-time day 
students and more than 10, 000 evening students. Integration with 
present facilities will provide for a larger number of applicants, 
enhancement of the quality of educational activity, and extension into 
new areas of academic development. 


Future Growth 


In view of the predictions of a sharply accelerating university enroll- 
ment, the Planning Committee of the Board of Governors is currently 
considering needs of the university for the decade ending in 1976 and 
plans are being developed. It has become obvious that a Library 
Building is greatly needed and that Physical Education facilities and 
further academic space will become priority items in the near future. 


The University in Quebec 


This university continues to explore ways in which it might make a 
positive contribution to the rich potential of Quebec and its people. As 
an experiment five sections of basic introductory courses were offered 
in the French language during the academic year of 1963-64. The Modern 
Languages Department continued efforts to assist those who wished to 
improve their ability to use the French language. During the year the 
Board of Governors presented a brief to the Royal Commission on 
Biculturalism and Bilingualism. 


FINANCE 


Capital Needs 


Through the cooperation of the Government of Quebec, and with the 
assistance from the Canada Council, the Capital requirements for the 
Henry F. Hall Building are assured to the extent of $16, 900, 000 and 
will be fully secured if the Building Fund is successful. 


New Financial Sources Must Be Developed 


The Government of Quebec has been generous with capital grants and it 
is hoped that more financial assistance will be made available for 
operating purposes, particularly in view of the projected increased costs 
for 1966-67 when the Hall Building is in operation. While exercising the 
right for certain controls, the Government is, however, conscious of 
the need to preserve academic freedom and maintain private responsi- 
bility and effort. The university is under obligation, therefore, to find 
resources outside of the normal sources of fees and governmental 
assistance. Student fees have recently been increased and now consti- 
tute 71% of operating needs, a figure unique in Canadian University 
operations. The allocation from the YMCA Annual Maintenance 
Campaign is essential, but it is hoped that additional funds may be 

found for library and other important areas of effort such as advanced 
studies and graduate work. 


« ties 


ACADEMIC DEVELOPMENT 


As of June 1963, the university was reorganized into four faculties: 
Arts, Science, Commerce, and Engineering. Associate Professor John 
O'Brien was appointed Dean of Arts; Professor Samuel Madras, Dean of 
Science; Professor Jack Bordan, Dean of Engineering. The Commerce 
appointment is pending. 


Graduate Studies 


The University Council and the Board of Governors approved a 
recommendation of the Committee on Academic Development that the 
University move into the field of graduate studies, and in particular 
recommended the immediate organization of a Board of Graduate 
Studies to examine the possibilities of establishing a program leading to 
the Master's Degree in Chemistry, English, and Fine Arts by 1965-66. 


Five Year Programme in Engineering 


A full five-year programme in Engineering with the first class to 
graduate in 1968 with Bachelor of Engineering degrees is now established. 


Offering of Courses in the French Language 


Courses in the French language were offered this year in the Evening 
Division. English speaking students are now able to extend their 
knowledge of French and French-speaking students have opportunities of 
making the transition to studies in the English language more easily. 


Television Course 


The University offered its second television course during the academic 
year of 1963-64. Assistant Professor Muriel Armstrong lectured in 
Economics. 110 viewers took the course for credit, and an additional 
310 viewers subscribed for the auxiliary material. 


Number of Course Sections Given 


A tabulation of the course section offered in 1963-64 compared with 
1962-63 is indicated below. Apart from the increased student enroll- 
ment, these figures indicate clearly the growth in the basic program of 
the University. 


Day Evening 

Division Division Total 
All Courses 1962-63 3104 339 6494 
All Courses 1963-64 3254 3695 695 


= P24 = 


REGISTRATION 


The tables shown below set forth the academic enrollment in the 
academic years 1962-63 and 1963-64. 


1962-63 


Summer 1962 Academic year of 1962-63 


(Evening only) Day Evening Total 
Arts 994 1162 2108 3270 
Science 492 649 1145 1794 
Commerce 652 564 1421 1985 
Engineering 26 68 63 131 
Partials Re al 8 1645 1653 
2555 2451 6382 8833 
1963-64 
Summer 1963 Academic year of 1963-64 
(Evening only) Day Evening Total 
Arts 821 1456 2718 4183 
Science 359 666 13.37 1983 
Commerce 433 698 1642 2340 
Engineering i fs 210 148 358 
Partials 324 10 La ee, 1783 
1969 3049 7598 10647 


The degrees and certificates awarded by the faculties of the University 
for the academic year of 1963-64 were as follows: 


Palin Gs Spring '64 
Bachelor of Arts 81 319 
Bachelor of Science 3a 114 
Bachelor of Commerce 34 154 
Certificate in Arts 2 10 


Associate in Science 1 
Associate in Commerce 2 
Certificate in Engineering 6 ily 
Diploma in Association Science 1 


TOTAL UNIVERSITY DEGREES 739 


TOTAL UNIVERSITY CERTIFICATES 48 


= -Lh = 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS SCHOOLS 
THE EVENING HIGH SCHOOL 


During the summer of 1963, 1417 students registered in fifty classes 
and 2350 subjects were offered. In the fall term, 3367 students in the 
high school and 104 students in the elementary school were registered, 
an increase of 175 students over 1962. A reduction in the number of 
subjects per student made it possible to accommodate the larger num- 
ber in the same facilities. Most of the expansion in the high school in 
recent years has come from increased enrolment on Saturday mornings 
and late Friday night classes. 


At the graduation exercises in October, 79 students qualified for High 
School entrance and 300 students received their High School certificates. 


The problems in a school of this kind are many, but at the same time it 
fills a very urgent need in the city and has many important by-products. 
The association of so many students with such a wide age range, of 
different nationalities and cultural backgrounds -- but with the common 
purpose of growth and development -- does much to create toleration 
and understanding so vital in modern society. 


THE BUSINESS SCHOOL 


The Evening Division opened in May 1963 with 258 students, compared 
with 308 in 1962. Most students continued throughout the summer and 
successfully passed examinations in early September. 


The Day Division winter term, had a total registration during the year 
of 224 students. 


The Evening Division had 691 students registered for the winter term. 
The Annual Graduation Ceremonies were held in June. 108 candidates 
from the Day Business School received diplomas in General Office, 
Bookkeeping, Stenographic and Secretarial programmes. 86 successful 
candidates in the Evening Division were awarded certificates in such 
major subjects as Shorthand, Typewriting, Bookkeeping, Business 
Correspondence, English Conversation and French Conversation. 


THE SCHOOL OF RETAILING 


Miss P. Dunton, the Director of the School, while pursuing studies in 
Switzerland, was replaced by Mr. Harold Shaffer, formerly Instructor 
of Retailing at Ryerson Technological Institute, Toronto. Due to space 
limitations, the School could accommodate only sixty-one students. 
Twenty-five were in second year and thirty-six in first. The majority 
of the students came from Quebec, a few from Newfoundland, west to 
Winnipeg and one from England, carefully selected from ninety-two 
applicants. Selection was based on academic qualifications and retail 
motivations and potential. Twenty diplomas were awarded at the 
Graduation Ceremonies in May. Twenty-eight first year students are 
now eligible to enter second year. 


Eight large stores in the Montreal area continued to co-operate with the 


School by employing students for a minimum of twenty-four hours per 
week during the School term. 


hx 


A seminar was held with an open discussion between students and 
personnel of the co-operating stores. The project was well received. 
Later each student wrote a report on his experience in the store in which 
he was employed during the Fall term. Reports were sent to the stores 
concerned without comment. 


As a result of these projects, a sub-committee of the store personnel, 
who will be dealing directly with the students next year, was formed. 
This committee is presently developing an improved in-store training 
and reporting program. 


All second year students, both graduates and non-graduates, were 
offered jobs, while any first year students who wished, had the oppor - 
tunity to work in stores during the summer vacation period. 


The curriculum has been broadened and standards of courses raised. 
Now, all courses, instructors, text books, course content, and 
examinations will be at university standards. French will be taught at 
two levels, beginners and advanced. 

SCHOOL OF ART 
This year 72 students were registered in the day division and 158 students 
in the evening division. The Saturday children's class had a registration 


of 21 students. 


The School of Art conducted its annual exhibition of the students work in 
Birks Hall from May 25th to 29th. 


At the graduation ceremony, May 28th, 11 students received diplomas. 


ee 


REGISTRATION: SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS SCHOOLS 


1962-63 
Summer 1962 Academic year 1962-63 
(Evening only) Day Evening Total 
High School 1343 - 3326 3326 
Elementary School - - 144 144 
Business School 
- Day 94 244 
- Evening 330 686 930 
School of Art - 88 158 246 
School of Retailing - 60 - 60 
1767 392 4314 4706 
1963-64 
Summer 1962 Academic year 1962-63 
(Evening only) Day Evening Total 
High School 2395 - 3567 4962 
Elementary School - - 146 146 
Business School 
- Day 115 2352 
- Evening 263 689 921 
School of Art - 92 164 256 
School of Retailing - 62 - 62 
Total i773 386 4566 6327 


DIPLOMAS AND CERTIFICATES AWARDED -- All Units -- 1963-64 GRADUATION 


High School ZO 
Elementary School 79 
Business School 108 
School of Art 8 
School of Retailing _20 
TOTAL 447 


ais 


FINANCE AND PROPERTY 


The 1963 annual Financial Campaign was again conducted in November. 
It was undertaken against a background of intensive planning for the 
Capital Fund Appeal for Sir George Williams University and the 
knowledge that the next Maintenance Campaign would be held in May 
1964. 


These facts precluded any major attempt to continue the progress of 
1962 toward a greatly increased objective ($285, 000) -- $267, 670 
having been raised at that time. The final result for 1963 was 

$267, 100. 


The goal of $285,000 was maintained. John D. Houlding, as General 
Chairman, gave high quality leadership ably assisted by Fraser F. 
Fulton as Chairman of Special Names. The Publicity Committee under 
Fred W. Bradshaw with the professional assistance of Editorial 
Communications supported the effort with an excellent program of 
news items, newspaper ads, Radio and TV spots and the usual printed 
materials. The Division Chairmen, enlisted by Branch Boards of 
Management from the lay ranks, guiding the efforts of some 2000 
workers, also rendered excellent service in this annual undertaking. 


Rev. R.S. Dunn of First Baptist Church was the Guest Speaker at the 
Opening Dinner and his message entitled 'The Heart of the Matter" 
launched the Campaign in a fitting manner. Describing the YMCA as a 
“laboratory for living'’' Mr. Dunn emphasized the strategic role which 
the YMCA is playing in the world of today. 


The public phase of the Sir George Williams Building Campaign for 
$7, 000, 000 and the Annual YMCA Appeal for $285, 000 took place May 
18 to June 1, 1964. The decision to have solicitation for both appeals 
run concurrently was prompted by two important factors: 


1. The change in the fiscal period of the YMCA from the 
calendar year to a year ending May 3lst and in 
consequence the necessity of conducting all future 
campaigns in the Spring. 


2. The difficulties of setting up two canvassing 
organizations in the same year. 


Early steps in organizing were taken in the summer of 1963 followed by 
solicitation of certain advance gifts before the year end. With an objec- 
tive of $7, 000, 000 the importance of maintaining proper sequence in 
obtaining strategic Key gifts was of paramount importance. So the 
reviewing, assigning, appraising process proceeded simultaneously 
with the development of the organization and selected solicitation. Many, 
many hours were spent in assessing potential at all levels of solicitation. 


Except for the Sir George Williams University Students, Alumni, 
Faculty and Staff and the special canvass under Mr. J. Caplan, the 
same working force conducted the dual solicitation. Decisions relating 
to the Capital Appeal because of its dimension, in most instances were 
delayed, with the result that progress was much slower than in a nor- 
mal Annual Appeal. At the year end there were still numerous calls to 
be completed, including many corporations with Head Offices out of the 
City. Except in unusual cases, solicitation for maintenance gifts 


= Vilas 


followed the approach for capital support. 

Mr. W.N. Hall, as General Chairman of the Sir George Williams 
Building Fund is giving outstanding leadership to this most important 
undertaking. He is ably supported in key positions in the organization 
by the following: 


Management Committee: Samuel Bronfman, H.R. Crabtree, Wm. Dodge, 
F.G. Hubbard, Gerard Plourde, R.C. Rae, C.W. Webster, E.C. Wood. 


Honorary Treasurer: G. Arnold Hart 


Key Gifts: Chairman -- W.N. Hall 
Special -- J. Caplan 


Special Gifts: Chairman -- Fraser F. Fulton 
(Maintenance and Capital) 
Teams: 
(General Solicitation--Maintenance and Capital:) Chairman - J, D. Houlding 
Vice-Chairman - 
A.R. McMurrich 
Foundations: Chairman -- O.B. Thornton 


Alumni: Chairman -- T.D. Lande 


Sir George Williams University: Chairman -- B. W. Roberts 
(Students & Staff 


Publicity: Chairman -- F. W. Bradshaw 


The solicitation of Sir George Williams University Students, faculty and 
administrative staff was completed in April with a final result of 
$56, 778. 


Canvassing is continuing in all other segments of the organization with 
considerable clean-up still to be made for the Maintenance Fund. 


At the Opening Dinner, Robert Choquette, Associate Commissioner, 
Centennial Commission brought a message of timely importance to the 
contemporary scene in Quebec. 


The change in campaign period from November to May, had some 
unforeseen disadvantages. Summer activities were already going on and 
made the usual claims on the time of workers. In addition, because of 
the approach of the holiday season, the clean-up process, which usually 
took place in December and January, became increasingly more 
difficult. 


Three observations are recorded for future guidance: 


(a) an earlier Spring date would be more desirable. 


ee 


(b) the rating, reviewing, assigning process which extended 
into the Divisional organization relating to the Capital 
Campaign is a pattern worthy of expansion to include the 
involvement of more workers. 


(c) serious consideration must again be given the problem of 
completing the campaign in two weeks. 


BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES 


During the year, the Association continued to add to its investment in 
new plant and equipment and to refurbish existing facilities. Total 
investment in fixed assets increased by $1, 337, 000 to the current level 
of $11, 536, 000. 


HENRY F. HALL BUILDING 


In February, Perini Quebec Inc. was awarded the contract for con- 
struction of the new 10 storey building for Sir George Williams Uni- 
versity. Excavation of the site started in March. 


The Henry F. Hall Building will add 782,600 square feet of laboratory, 
classroom, auditorium, and administrative space to the University's 
facilities. Cost of construction will be $18, 000, 000, with completion 
called for the Fall of 1966. 


OTHER FACILITIES 


The construction and furnishing of the new Lakeshore Branch Building, 
started in 1962, was completed during the year. 


At Camp Perrot, additional facilities were constructed in conjunction 
with the development of this property as a family recreation centre. 


Additional property was purchased by Kamp Kanawana. 


As in previous years, extensive building repairs and renovations were 
carried out. Total cost of these renovations approximated $193, 000. 
Major projects included: - 


Drummond-Stanley Building 


Complete renovation and refurnishing of the 12th floor of the Residence; 
extensive underpinning of the foundations of the Drummond Street 
Building; provision of additional administrative quarters in Downtown 
Branch; and the modernization of the entrance lobby on Drummond 
Street. 


International Branch 


Extensive repairs to the exterior of the building and internal changes to 
club and locker room facilities. 


= 19 


Northmount Branch 
Replacement of wall fabric and repainting of entrance hall and corridors. 


Camp Otoreke 


Renovation and remodelling of the mainland building to convert it into a 
ski lodge and meeting centre. 


ENDOWMENT 


During the year the following sums were received and added to the 
Endowment Fund: 


Estate H. Ross MacGregor $ 50.00 
Estate W.F. Brass 58.62 
Estate F. Benedict 7, 260.00 
L. W. Townsend memorial contributions 1, O12. 15 
Profit of Sale of Investments 18, 891.00 

Bor ote te 


WORLD SERVICE 


Whether or not to become identified with World Service has never been 
subject to "yes" or 'no'' in the Montreal Association. It has always been 
“how!'' -- "how'' can we intensify interest, make World Service more of 

an integral part of the regular program and broaden the basis of support. 


Each year makes its own contribution to this broad objective in the pro- 
vision of some significant experiences in World Service understanding. 
Results may not be immediately apparent. The program mosaic, however, 
would be incomplete without this focus on the world at large, 


Since 1889 World Service has helped establish YMCA's in 46 of the 83 
countries which have YMCA's. During the year 47 professional staff 
members and ten Junior World Service workers were at work in 34 
countries. 84 strategic programs, principally in leadership training, 
were supported in 32 countries as well as assistance in emergency 
situations. These statistics are cold. The story behind them, however, 
is inspiring and often staggers the imagination in its revelation of the 
dimensions of the way in which people have been helped. 


Harley Smith, a fellowship student at Sir George Williams University 
participated, along with 17 American students, in work camp experi- 
ence in Japan in the summer of 1963. This experience made a most 
profound impression on him. The Montreal Association made available 
$250. toward his expenses. 


Roger Wilson, a graduate of Sir George Williams University returned 
to Montreal following a years sojourn as a Junior World Service Worker 
in Kenya. His rich experience in this African setting has added much 
to the total World Service impact. 


Robert W. Sallery, former YMCA Fellowship Student who, assisted by 
friends in the Montreal Association, spent a memorable summer 


= 126) t= 


vacation working at a refugee camp in Lebanon in 1961, has returned 
to the Middle East. Following graduation and post graduate work in 
the USA he accepted a position as Youth Activities Officer with UNRA 
in Lebanon. He is one of a number of Canadians who, in the period 
under review, accepted various assignments in the World Service field 
both for short term and extended appointments. 


During the year three men brought their knowledge and enthusiasm to 
Montreal audiences on this important world-wide enterprise. 


Roy G. Smith, of Lima, Peru spoke at several meetings emphasizing 
the important role which the YMCA exercises as a potent force for 
reconciliation in areas where suspicions and tensions are at a high 
level. 


Douglas H. Deane, Secretary for Work with Refugees and Migrants of 
the World Alliance was most effective in focussing attention on the 
needy spots in the World in these areas of concern and brought new 
perspective and understanding to all who heard him. An informal 
fellowship hour with a selected group of young people was most helpful. 


Murray H. Faulkner, an alumnus of Sir George Williams University 
shared with a key group of students from that institution, some of the 
accomplishments and challenges of YMCA work in Thailand where the 
Christian segment of the population is a very small minority. 


The use of World Service films including the latest short interpretative 
messages by Nick Patinos on Ecuador, Chuck Lewis on Guatemala and 
Gordon Ramsay on Jamaica, distribution of printed material including 

leaflets, periodic use of the Reporter, and the circulation of 560 copies 
of World Communique rounded out the interpretive activities. 


Implementation of projects envisaged in Buildings for Brotherhood pro- 
ram for which $80, 000 was secured in Montreal continues. Over 

$4, 500, 000 has been appropriated to 100 specific projects with partial 

or complete disbursements being made to over 93. Reports from over - 

seas indicate that more than $6, 000, 000 has been raised in over 100 

campaigns and the effort is continuing. 


Many new needs have developed since the B4B and the Plenary meeting 
of the International Committee in 1963 authorized the establishment of a 
Capital Assistance Program Guarantee Fund of $300, 000 in connection 
with which a progress report will be given in September 1964. This is 
to provide a revolving guarantee fund to deal with urgent needs which 
may be replaced by designated or undesignated gifts when received. 


1963 financial results were: Objective Actual 
North America $1,961, 451 $1, 947, 067 
Canada 200, 000 i771, 783 
Montreal 44, 000 40, 000 


The following tabulations give results by administrative units: 
(x--reached or exceeded objective) 


Metropolitan $23, 869 
Downtown 4,500 x 
Sir Geo. Williams University Students Sei il Wo) 
Westmount 1,374 x 
International 639 
Notre Dame de Grace 2,438 x 
Verdun-LaSalle Sioux 
Lachine -Dorval 525 
Northmount 435 
Lakeshore 500 
Camp Otoreke 1, 000 
Kamp Kanawana 433 x 
$40, 000 


Although less than the target, this is the largest sum ever secured for 
the Annual Fund and reflects cooperation of Corporations, special 
groups, SGWU students and a group of deeply interested individuals. 


The Montreal YMCA is well represented on the International Committee 
by J.J. F. Bancroft, W.N. Clelland, W.A. Devereux, J.B. Frosst, 
F.B. Peterson, M.F. Strong and F.G. Hubbard. 


No eR N ATO NAT: WO kK Oe 
MCA 


A el 
i 


World's Alliance, the world-wide organization of YMCA movements 
with headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland, has a membership of 83 
countries and territories. The Alliance, which is allocated funds from 
World Service receipts, speaks as the representative body of millions 
of YMCA members around the world. It also seeks to coordinate 
experience, methods, personnel, and provides a medium through which 
the needs across the world can be ascertained and world strategy 
devised. It also carries on such emergency international services as 
work with refugees. 


Its official publication World Communique is recognized as one of the 
outstanding periodicals of its kind in the world today. For years, it 
has been a stimulating example of how an aggressive Christian publi- 
cation can attract attention and tell a story. It comes to over 560 
Montreal homes annually. The Editor, Kurt Miethke spent several 
days in Montreal gathering information which appeared in a later issue. 
Special attention was given to Sir George Williams University. 


THE NA TIONA.L WORK OF 

THe MON TREAL YMC «A 
The Montreal Association is a constituent member of the National 
Council of the YMCA of Canada and as such had a direct share in its 
work. The Council has continued to render technical service to local 
associations in many aspects of its work, including Boys', Physical, 
Young Adults and Extension. 


x ek 


Several conferences for members and human relations laboratories 
for staff were conducted under the auspices of the National Council 
personnel and training departments. These were of a high order and 
many members and staff of the Montreal Association participated. 


The Annual Junior Leaders Corps Training Camp and the Secretaries 
Training School offering courses credited by Sir George Williams 
University, were again held at Geneva Park with participation from 
Montreal staff and members both at the teaching and student level. 
The following members of the Montreal Association are members of 
the National Council: 


Dr. D. J. Wilson ti. Place 
J.J. F. Bancroft C.,A. Minshull 
J. Barrable D.J.M. Pritchard 
W.A. Devereaux R.C, Rae 
J.B. Frosst D.R. Ross 
Dr. HF. “Hall Dr. G.D.. Shortt 
Miss Betty Hicking A.C. Weaver 
T.D. Lewis C.W. Webster 
M. F. Strong F.G. Hubbard 
Clarence Campbell J.B. Hopkins 
N.R. Crump R. W. MecKelvie 
H.H. Lank R.O. McMurtry 
Charles Reckitt H. C. Bourne 
PERSONNEL 
NEW APPOINTMENTS 
DOWNTOWN BRANCH: 

Henry Price - Adult Program Director 

Blaine Grundy - Adult Program Secretary 

Howard Hicken - Assistant Physical Director 


LAKESHORE BRANCH: 


Ross Bannerman - Executive Secretary 
William Russell - Assistant Secretary 
Terry. Forth - Assistant Secretary 
Philip McDonald - Assistant Secretary 


NORTHMOUNT BRANCH: 
Roger Wilson - Assistant Secretary 
NOTRE DAME DE GRACE BRANCH: 
Donald Patrick - Adult Program Secretary 
Carol Lennox - Associate Hi-Y Secretary 
William Douglas - Youth Work Secretary 
TRANSFERS: 
Hedley G. Dimock - Metropolitan Co-ordinator of Staff Develop- 


ment to Assistant Professor of Applied Social Science, Sir 
George Williams, University. 


ec en 


TRANSFERS (cont'd) 
Rix G, Rogers - Executive Secretary Lakeshore Branch to 
Co-ordinator of Program and Staff Development, Metropolitan 
Office. 


Victor Bryant - Acting Adult Program Secretary to Hi-Y 
Secretary, Notre Dame De Grace Branch. 


Ray Rouse - Assistant Secretary Lakeshore Branch to 
Executive Secretary, Northmount Branch. 


John Hopkins - Executive Secretary, Verdun-LaSalle Branch 
to Administrative Assistant Student Affairs, Sir George 
Williams University. 


Bruce McFarlane - Extension Secretary, International Branch, 
to Executive Secretary, Verdun-LaSalle Branch. 


RESIGNATIONS: 
William Halliday-Assistant Secretary, Northmount Branch, 
Beth Wylie-Assistant Hi-Y Secretary, Notre Dame De Grace Branch. 
Arthur Perry-Assistant Secretary, Verdun-LaSalle Branch. 
Bill Halliday-Assistant Secretary, Northmount. 
Sidney Zink-Assistant Secretary, Lachine-Dorval. 


ON LEAVE: 
Lloyd Ring - for graduate study in Adult Education, University 
of Boston. 


OBITUARY 


We record with sorrow the passing 
of a number of friends of the 
Association. 


Mr. Donald S. Abbott - Member of the Metropolitan Board of 
Directors. 


Mr. J.A. Bullock - Member of the Lachine Board of Manage - 
ment. 


Mr. John W. McConnell - Honorary President, member of the 
Metropolitan Advisory Board, lifetime association with the 
YMCA in various lay capacities including Central Branch Chair- 
man and other Committees and advisor on all important under - 


takings. 

Mr. A.W. McMaster - Member of the Metropolitan Advisory 
Board. 

Mr. W.F. Macklaier - Member of the Metropolitan Advisory 
Board -- former member of the Metropolitan Board of Direc- 
tors, lifetime association with the Y.M.C.A. in many lay 
capacities. 


= oe = 


Mr. L. W. Townsend - Member of the Metropolitan Board of 
Directors, former President and Chairman of the Westmount 
Branch and long time lay worker serving through many com- 
mittees related to regular work and from time to time special 


undertakings. 

Dr. Arnold W. Adams Mr. David G. McConnell 
Mr. W.J.T. Adamson Mr. D. G. MacPherson 
Mr. W.G.E. Aird Mr. W. Northey 

Mr. G.C. Bateman Mr. R. H. Peterson 
Mr. G.S. Burden Mr. Reginald Piper 
Mr. John A, Burgess Senator Donat Raymond 
Mr. Frank B. Chauvin, Q.C. Mr. Harry Richer 

Mr. W.G. Cornish Mr. W.C. Robb 

Dr. E.F. Crutchlow Dr. C.D, Robbins 

Mr. Arnold D'Amato Mr. A. E. Robertson 
Mr. W.H. Durrell Mr. A. W. Seaman 
Mr. J. W.A. Gannan Mr. W.P. Seath 

Dr. L.C. Gilday Mr. O.R. Sharp 

Mr. R.E. Haldenby Mr. L. F. Skelton 

Mr. P. W. Hollingworth Ma... Wisk, Tigh 

Mr. George H. Imrie Mr. A.C. Thompson 
Mr. H. J. Knubly Dr. M. Tunis 


Mr. W. Wilson Leslie 


APPRECIATION 


It is never possible to adequately 
express appreciation to the many 
thousands of individuals and organ- 
izations who contribute each year 
to the work of the YMCA, but we 
do wish to record the following 
acknowledgements. 


To the members of the BOARDS and COMMITTEES who gave 
guidance and counsel to the work of the Association during the 
year. 


To the hundreds of volunteer ADVISORS, LEADERS, and 
COUNSELLORS who played such an important part in group, 
club, and camp programs. 


To the many INDIVIDUALS and CORPORATIONS whose generous 
financial assistance has made the year's work possible. 


To PRESS, RADIO, and TELEVISION for the help they have 
given in interpreting the work of the Association to the com- 
munity. 


To the individual MINISTERS and CHURCHES in the Greater 
Montreal area, the Greater Montreal Council of Churches and 
the Council of Christian Education of the Province of Quebec 
with whom we have so much in common. 


+ ae. 


To the PROTESTANT SCHOOL BOARDS for making available 
school gymnasiums, offices, and club room space to supple- 
ment our own building facilities. 


To other YOUTH ORGANIZATIONS The Young Women's 
Christian Association, The Young Men's and Young Women's 
Hebrew Associations, and The Montreal Council of Social 
Agencies. 


=~ 2 = 


BRANCHES 


OFFICERS 


H. Roy Crabtree 
T. Denton Lewis 
W.N. Hall 

W.S. Kirkpatrick 
J.R. Logan 

W.C. Corbett 
Fred G. Hubbard 
C.M. McCully 


DIRECTORS 


E.R. Alexander 
J.C. Annesley 

jiod: So Bancroft 

A. Turner Bone 
F.W. Bradshaw 
in. 7. Clege 

W. Norman Clelland 
C. Leslie Copland 
J;R. Crawtord 
R.A. Emerson 
John B. Frosst 
Fraser F, Fulton 

G. Arnold Hart 
R.E. Heartz 

George M. Hobart 
it. Colo. ©. olland 
J.D. Houlding 


METROPOLITAN OFFICERS 


AND BOARD MEMBERS 


President 

lst Vice-President 

2nd Vice-President 

3rd Vice-President 
Honorary Secretary 
Honorary Treasurer 
General Secretary 
Assistant General Secretary 


R.A. Irwin 

D.R. McMaster, Q.C, 
A.R. McMurrich 
Charles A. Morrison 
S.C. Norsworthy 
J.M. Pritchard 
W.D. Robb 

B. W. Roberts 

A. E, Sargent 
Maurice Strong 
Irving R. Tait 
Morley G. Taylor 

O. B. Thornton 

C.L. Walker 

F.B. Walls 

Colin W. Webster 


EXECUTIVE 

CHAIRMEN SECRETARIES 
Downtown ab Lurner A.W. Kemball 
International Basil Burgess E,A. Lowe 
Lachine -Dorval R.J. Morton Vic Hryhorchuk 
Lakeshore R.D. Bennett Ross Bannerman 
Northmount F. David Mathias Ray Rouse 
Notre Dame de Grace J.A. Burke J.M. Singleton 
Verdun-LaSalle C. Minshull Bruce McFarlane 
Westmount D. Y. Novinger G. Lloyd Welton 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY AND SCHOOLS 


Fraser F. Fulton - 
B. W. Roberts - 


Chairman, Board of Governors 
Chancellor 


Robert C. Rae - Principal and Vice-Chancellor 


Sere 


CHAIRMEN OF METROPOLITAN STANDING COMMITTEES 


* 


n 


sie 
tod 


Executive - T. Denton Lewis 
Finance & Property - W.N. Hall 
Investment - W.C. Corbett 
Endowment - J.R. Crawford 
Public Information - F.W. Bradshaw 
Founder's Day - T. Denton Lewis 
Otoreke - Frank B. Peterson 
Building & Services - A. Turner. Bone 
Building + LR. Tait 

World Service - W. Norman Clelland 
Salary - W.N. Hall 
Personnel - R.A. Irwin 

Boys' Camp - Keith Farquharson 


ADVISORY BOARD 


T.H. Atkinson Frederick Johnson 
L.J. Belnap R.R. Johnson 
Joseph M. Breen Herbert H. Lank 
Henry G. Birks E.A. Leslie 

G. W. Bourke A. Wesley Mason 
Arthur H. Campbell Herman Mawhinney 
Murray R. Chipman John G. McConnell 
J.P. Copland Wilson G. McConnell 
J.H. Davey J.D. McKeown 

S. G. Dobson T.R. McLagan 
George V. Ferguson R.O. McMurty 

Hon. G.B. Foster, Q.C. Maj. Gen. F.R. Phelan 
J-A; Fuller R.E. Powell 

B.C. Gardner Howard I. Ross 

G.B. Gordon H. Grenville Smith 
H. J. Hannaford W. W. Southam 

R.D. Harkness R.E, Stavert 

George R. Hodgson Guy Tombs 

Reade, ~lotdens ‘©.:6, Maj. Gen. A.E, Walford 
W.H. Howard, Q.C. E.C. Wood 

A.C. Jensen 


Deceased August 1964 


«28>. 


r4-B.Y BAR-IN. STATISTICS 


Figures are meaningful only when 
considered as persons who are 
playing and learning together ina 
Christian environment. Character 
is influenced by association with 
like-minded people. 


ENROLLMENT ATTENDANCE 


VOLUNTEER SERVICE 


Group leaders 1, 730 
On Boards, Committees and Councils 2,284 9, 863 


HEALTH AND PHYSICAL FITNESS 


Gymnasium Activities 4,704 98, 093 
Swimming Classes 7, 448 93, 769 
Swimming Tests and Lessons 4,438 

_ No. of Individuals Taught to Swim 976 
Teams, Leagues, Rinks, and Playfields 2,994 50, 056 
Athletic Events 38, 689 


GROUPS AND CLUBS - 1501 


Purpose and Fellowship Clubs 26,,503 3, 880, 032 
Interest Groups and Classes 


INFORMAL EDUCATION 


Crafts and Hobbies 1,161 28, 052 
Lectures, Forums, and Study Groups 86, 442 
Motion Pictures and Film Clubs 11, 186 
Libraries, Book Circulation 151, 980 


RELIGIOUS EDUCATION 
Meetings, Study Groups, Chapel 3.508 


SOCIAL RECREATION 


Dances, Parties, and Social Affairs 63, 337 
Dramatics and Musical Events 25132 
Trips, Outings, Etc. 4, 224 


- 26m 


ENROLLMENT 

CAMPS 

Campers Camper Days 
Boys 602 12,607 
Men 760 3,619 
Women 790 3,558 
Total Camper Enrollment rope oY 
Total Camper Days 
City Camps and Fun Clubs - 8 3, 026 


PERSONAL SERVICES 


Counselling and Interviews 

Employment Placements 901 
Residence Bookings 

Food Services 


FORMAL EDUCATION 
Sir George Williams University 
and Schools 17, 885 

No. of Different Classes - 1041 
No. of Different Students Class Hours 
COMMUNITY SERVICE 
No. of Outside Organizations using 

"Y" facilities 280 
GROSS ATTENDANCE 
Clubs, Groups, Program Events, 


Informal education Classes 
and Personal Services 


sae % 


ATTENDANCE 


19, 784 


29; 335 


84, 857 


169, 515 
456, 938 


4, 297, 800 


9, 579, 462 


