YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 


ANNUAL REPORT 1960 


ONE HUNDRED AND NINTH YEAR 


FORWARD 


The Board of Directors takes pleasure 
in submitting the Annual Report of 

The Young Men's chetet am Association 
of Montreal for the year ending Dec~ 
ember 3lst, 1960, in accordance with 


the requirements of the constitution. 


This report covers matters of general 
interest affecting the Montreal Assoc— 
iation as a whole. . Detailed reports 

of all eleven branches, inciuding Sir 
George Williams University and Schools, 
have been submitted and approved at 
their respective meetings and are in- 


cluded in the records of each branch. 


METROPOLITAN OFFICES 
Thy! DRUMMOND STREET 


Downtown Branch 
Tl! Drummond Street 


International Branch 
5550 Park Avenue 


Lachine=Dorval Branch 
3955 Provost Street 


Lakeshore Branch 
2)6-A Lakeshore Road 


Montreal East Branch 
127 St. Cyr Street 


THE YOUNG MEN'S 
CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION 
OF MONTREAL 


Northeastern Branch 
300! Rosemount Boulevard 


Northmount Branch 
1455 Rochon Street 


Notre Dame de Grace Branch 
335 Hampton Avenue 


Southwestern Branch 
7105 La Salle Boulevard 


Westmount Branch 
585 Sherbrooke Street West 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY 


i435 DRUMMOND STREET 


S1R GEORGE WILLIAMS SCHOOLS 


Ip! DRUMMOND STREET 


Evening High School School of Art 


Business School 


CAMPS 


Kamp Kanawana 
St. Sauveur 


School of Retailing 
Elementary School 


Camp Otoreke 
St. Adotphe de Howard 


YMCA Ski Lodge 
Christieville 


ie 


NDE X 


HIGHLIGHTS OF 1960 
MEMBERSHIP 

BOYS AND GIRLS 

TEEN 

YOUNG ADULT 

PHYSICAL 

CAMPS 

SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY 
SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS SCHOOLS 
RESIDENCES 

FINANCE AND PROPERTY 

WORLD SERVICE 

PERSONNEL 

METROPOLITAN OFFICERS 
OBITUARY 

APPRECIATION 

STATISTICAL REVIEW 


PAGE 


nh PrGnti 6 aT $ OF 1960 


MEMBERSHIP 


The membership of the Association though not experi- 
encing any dramatic increase during the year has con- 
tinued fo grow. The total number of different mem- 
bers who were active in the YMCA during 1960 was 
2,157. The number on the rolls of the various bran- 
ches at December 30th was 26,217. Both these figures 
are an all-time record. Of special interest is the 
increase in the number of boys and girls of high 
school age. 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY AND SCHOOLS 


Sir George Williams University and Schools has opera- 
ted at the capacity of the facilities presently avail- 
able. Unfortunately some prospective students could 
not be accepted because of lack of accommodation. The 
completion of the new Library on the sixth floor addi- 
tion, and the enlargement and improvement of accommo- 
dation for the Bursar's Office and Faculty Offices, 
provided much-needed relief to overcrowded and inade- 
quate facilities. 


VOLUNTEER LEADERSHIP 


The number and quality of voluntary leadership is an 
important element in the capacity of the YMCA to have 

an affect on the lives of its members. There were 

1,908 such leaders active at all levels of the program 

of the Association. More attention was given to train- 
ing these leaders through courses, supervision, clinics 
and personal counselling. Careful testing of some 
training methods currently in use indicates that these 
have been less effective than had been hoped. As a re- 
sult, some training methods will be changed and improved. 


THE PLANNING COMMITTEE 


The Planning Committee, under the chairmanship of H. 
Roy Crabtree, after a year's study presented its Report 


-h- 


which was approved by the Board of Directors. The 
report drew attention to the general decline in moral 
values and recommended that the Association give pri- 
ority to program designed to encourage education in 
Christian life vaiues. The Committee also recommen- 
ded that special emphasis be given to expanding and 
strengthening of a program for high schoo! youth. 
These two decisions will provide important guide lines 
in the development of the YMCA in days ahead. 


HI-Y CLUB PROGRAM 


An encouraging start has been made in the strengthen- 
ing of the Hi-Y club program for high school boys and 
girls. Two staff secretaries have been working exclu- 
sively with this important group and have been able to 
develop a strong program of ctub officer training and 
adult advisor training. There are at present 7 Hi-Y 
clubs involving some 700 boys and girls. It is expec- 
ted that, with the increase next year in the staff 
working exclusively in this field, the number of clubs 
will expand considerably. 


INFORMAL EDUCATION COURSES 


The number and variety of informal education classes 
has continued to grow. Several branches have expanded 
the variety of subjects offered. Subjects of broad 
cultural interest, as well as others’ dealing with con- 
temporary problems, have been led by able instructors. 


KAMP KANAWANA 


Kamp Kanawana for boys operated for eight weeks at 
near capacity. With the assistance of a grant from 
the Zeller Family Foundation an intensive study of 
leadership growth and effectiveness and measurement 

of camper growth was undertaken. Preliminary process- 
ing of the data collected has indicated that some very 
helpful findings will be forthcoming. 


A € BOB E RSet 


The year end showed a total of 26,27 members enrol - 
led. In addition there were 1,091 registered non- 
members participating in various specific activities 
during the year, while a total of h,180 campers were 
enrolled. This included 2,405 resident campers and 
1,879 in summer day camps. Different individual mem- 
bers in 1960 reached a total of 6,337 with the cam- 
pers included. The figures below do not include camp 
enrollment or registered non-members. 


Different Members Total at 


Membership by Branches During the Year Dec. 41/60 
Central 10,25 5,10 
Lakeshore 3,756 tie 
International 30827 1,33 
Notre Dame de Grace 2,896 1,64 
Northmount 617 op 
Lachine-Dorva|l ae a: 1, O17 
Westmount 1,605 1,045 
Northeastern 612 01 
Southwestern 1, 73 61 
Montreal East 915 39 
Sir George Williams University 
and Sir George Williams Schools 13,553 10,895 
TOTAL 2,157 26, 2h7 
By Sex 
Male 18,090 
Female 8,157 
By Age Per Cent By Age Per Cent 
Under 12 3,013 11.5 25 <129 70 pype06 15.2 
ve oe Ih 1,265 4B 30 a 3h 2,187 925 
3 = f7 3.199 ‘202 35 & Up 3, 167 2 
‘8. oh 5610 32.8 Unknown 50h 1.9 


ae ie 


A N D G rh Rides 


In this category falls activities for boys and girls 
9 - Ih years of age. In 1960, ,278 (11.5%) of the 
total membership was included in this age group. 


What Children De. . . 


Hockey teams, baseball football, floor hockey, basket- 
ball, general gym classes, and swim instruction were 
a big part of the general junior program in branches. 


The interest of many youngsters is astounding. Rec- 

reation and program certainly cannot. exciude movies, 

cokes, and ice cream .. . but they are equally eager 
for creative expression, museum trips, and art exhi- 

bits. Individual crafts, hobbies, and dramatics ab- 

sorb many youngsters. 


Boys whd Girls’ Love 4efo lin a MO lLub™ os coe. 


Friendship clubs (calied Gray-Y clubs in some branches) 
continue to play a major part in the children's activi - 
ties. Groups of boys or girls from 9 = 12 meet under 
the guidance of a volunteer leader in a home, a school, 
or the 'Y'. Each club, under its own elected officers, 
plans programs of special interest to its members. 


In addition to the small group activities, clubs come 
together on joint projects such as Penny Carnival, Eas- 
ter and Chistmas baskets for "shut-ins", bean feed sup- 
pers,.bus trips to Ottawa and Parliament Hill, Father 
and Son or Mother and Daughter Banquets, and athletic 
tournaments. 


BOYS AND GIRLS CLUBS - MONTREAL YMCA 1960 


Number of 


Branch Clubs Club Members 
Notre Dame de Grace 13 107 
international 12 8 
Lachine-Dorval 18 13? 
Northmount 38 380 
Lakeshore bhp 158 


TEEN 


et Number of 
Branch Clubs Club Members 


Westmount A hi 
Northeastern 2 we 
Southwestern 3 0 
TOTAL 127 1,334 


In keeping with the recommendations of the 1959-60 
Planning Committee Report, the emphasis in teen pro- 
gram, throughout 1960 was directed to development of 
close-knit friendship groups and the training of lea- 
dership within the groups themselves. Notre Dame de 
Grace, Southwestern, Lachine-Dorval, Northmount, and 
International Branches helped the officers of teen 
clubs organize discussions and workshops on the prin- 
ciples and methods of how to be a good club president, 
treasurer, or other officer. 


In the fall of 1960, 65 boys and girls from the N.D.G. 
group of 16 Hi-Y clubs set up their own weekend con- 
ference at the 'Y's Adult Lodge in the Laurentians. 
Project for the conference was to agree on topics for 
club programs in the coming winter season. In this 
conference process they experienced. a real life set- 
ting for the practicing of responsibility and deci- 
sion-making thereby developing self-reliance and mat- 
urify. 


Clubs Develop in Several Community Branches 

Teenagers have enthusiastically faken hold to organ- 

ize their own club programs to sef up club study pro- 
jects on community affairs, education, study habits, 

and so on. 


Several Kinds of Teen Clubs 


In each branch, club formation has taken several forms, 
each an answer fo the needs of particular teen groups; 


« & « 


some are co-ed, others, boys and girls singly; some are 
a mixture of school and working youths; some are exclu- 
sively one or the other. In this teen category in 1960 
of Be were 5% clubs operating with a total enrollment 
of 9. 


Social Recreation 


Club program is but one aspect of teen activities. To- 
tal membership in this senior teen group was 2,105 at 
the end of the year (excluding those enrolled in the 
University and Schools). Throughout 1960 attendance 

at dances, parties, social events, dramatics, music, 
outings, etc. ran to. 66,746 with a little more than 
half that made up of teenage participants, (excluding 
University). 


Physical Fitness 


A further aspect of teen program is the physical acti- 
vities which take a great part of their energy .. . 
archery, badminton, gym, teams, figure-skating, bowl- 
ing, basketball, swimming, hockey, and softball. (See 
Physical Report) 


YOUNG AnBiteket § 


ADULT PROGRAM 


This section of the report has reference to non-physi- 
cal program for adult members of the Association, bet- 
ween the ages of 18 and 25. Of the total membership, 
32.8% falls within this age group. 


lt should be noted here that in this age group there 

are !,200 adults registered in Sir George Williams Un- 
iversity courses as "partiai" students. This and the 
Students Association program of clubs and activities 

is a tremendous item of adult program in the Montreal 
YMCA. 


In the branches, adult program committees and councils 
have continued to. take more responsibility for their 


- 9 - 


own activities. For these kind of persons the great 
need is to find within the YMCA a setting in which 
their educational background can be employed in cre- 
ative expression and new intellectual challenge. 


Adult Education Courses 


At Lakeshore, Central, Lachine-Dorval, and Notre Dame 
de Grace branches there has been an increase in the 
number of informal education courses offered on spec= 
ific subjects. These have been designed to provide 
quality instruction under competent leadership, and 
have dealt with subjects ranging from French Conver- 
sation to Contract Bridge. 


New Canadians... 


Perhaps the most unique adult education program oper= 
ated within fhe branch setting is the English classes 


offered for New Canadians at International Branch. In 
1960, 1,923 students received instruction in English 
Language. 


For Adults With Hobby Interests .. . 


Under the general heading of "hobbies", for the leis- 

ure available to adults, it can be reported that there 
has been an increased attendance in classes and ciubs 

in such interests as: oil painting, photography, lea- 
thercrafft, ceramics, smocking, and millinery. 


A variety of clubs, self-governing in nature, but cen- 
tered around a common interest, included camera club, 
outing club, glee club, muSic appreciation, film club, 
table-tennis club. 


SENIOR SERVICE CLUBS 
"¥'s Men's Clubs 
This is the senior men's service club of the YMCA of 
which there are two duly chartered clubs in the Mont- 


real Association -- The Verdun ‘Y's Men's Ciub, and a 
second club aft the Notre Dame de Grace Branch. During 


» bO=s 


the year, a new club began organizing at Central and 
will soon apply for the 'Y's Men's international char- 
fer. 


Besides the opportunity for individual growth and dev- 
elopment, these clubs contribute much by way of finan- 
cial assistance and leadership to the program of the 
YMCA members. 


They have raised funds for World Service, given time 
to committees within their branches, leadership to 
clubs and activities for youngsters, and taken on im- 
portant assignments in the Annual Finance Campaign. 


The Foremen'ts Club 


This club is for foremen and supervisors in industry. 
It is Canada's largest such ckub having a membership 

of 95 representing 81 industrial firms in the Mont- 
real area. The club held monthly meetings with prom- 
inent guest speakers from Canada and the United States 
addressing them on topics related to problems of mod- 
ern business management and supervision. The club pub- 
lished its own bulletin and conducted other projects 
related to the advancement of foremanship, such as man- 
agement development clinics; public speaking, safety 
campaigns, industrial exhibits, and tours. 


OTOREKE SUMMER LODGE FOR ADULTS 


A unique extension of YMCA adult program is the summer 
lodge near St. Adolphe de Howard in the Laurentians. 
Operated by a separate Oforeke Camp Committee, this 
resident lodge provides a summer Laurentian setting 
for young men and women fo come together in an atmos- 
phere of leisurely fellowship. Complete facilities 
are available for canoeing, sailing, volleyball, fish- 
ing, swimming, or just plain lazing in the -hot.sun. 
Attendance in the June Ist to September 7th period 

was 1,643 young adult men and women for a total of 
9,140 camper days. 


CHRISTIEVILLE SKI LODGE 


This lodge is the winter camp for many of the Otoreke 
guests who have formed an Otoreke Ski Club at Chris- 


PH Y*S 


tieville, Quebec. Its membership during the year was 
over 100 with close to 75 guests and members visiting 
the lodge each «skif' weekend. | 


i ow't 


The range of physical program in "Y's across the city 
is enormous. There were figure-skating clubs, golf 
schools in four branches, skiing instruction, archery, 
wrestling, swimming, ornamental swimming, diving, foot- 
ball, and softball. Enrotiment in teams and leagues 


was 1,99) for 47,037 participating. 


Branches ran "learn-to-swim" programs for children in 
the spring, with community branches coming by charter 
bus fo pools at Westmount, Southwestern, Internation- 
al, and Central, 1,151 persons learned to swim during 
the year. In regular pool programs, h,379 were enrol- 
led for swims and 6,420 progressive swim tests were 
awarded, ranging from beginners to life-saving. 


Gymnasium activities enrolled 4,95) persons on 56,088 
occasions during the year. In this category are in- 

cluded junior gym programs, judo groups, leader corps 
trainees, (boys and girls), squash, gymnastics, body- 
building, and wrestling. 


Physical Fitness for Executives 


The Cureton Clinic of 1958 is still creating increased 
interest im the business men's membership and the phy- 
sical departments have acted during the past two years 
to revamp some aspects of men's program to provide in- 
dividualized fitness training schemes in line with Dr. 
Cureton's recommendations. 


The major changes have been at Central Branch which 
serves fhe downtown business group. A new exercise 
room was outfifted amd individual testing programs in- 
augurated along with scaled individual conditioning 
schemes for members. 


GCA BPS F OR soy 2 AN D 61 RL $ 


KAMP KANAWANA 


Camp fires, regattas, swim meets, banquets, Indian, 
ceremonies, Lumberman-Voyageur Day, special meals in- 
dicate something of the scope and variety of activi- 
ties, and the fun the campers had doing them:  fore- 
most in the thinking of the staff was the fact that 
program is the means to helping campers learn new 
skills and grow in character. 


Kamp Kanawana "Study" Findings Are Promising 


The Montreal YMCA has been working at the development 
of techniques which measure the character growth of 
members in program. A Kamp Kanawana study project, 
financed by a $1,200 grant from the Zeller Family 
Foundation, co-ordinated by Dr. Hedley G. Dimock, 
tackled this problem last summer. The results repor- 
ted by Dr. Dimock are encouraging. 


The change of attitudes and temperament in selected 

camp counsellors has been successfully measured. As 
a result of these findings, youth programs aimed at 

attitude change and character growth can now be more 
exactly planned and their effect on youth more pre- 

cisely anticipated. 


The findings are considered of extreme importance for 
the YMCA's "value education" programs now'‘operating in 
teenage Hi-Y club programs throughout the city. 


Staff Training 


Staff training started in May with three All Staff Ses- 
sions. Two sessions were held at the Westmount Branch 
where waterfront program and procedure were discussed 
and practical sessions given in the pool! on water safety 
and canoeing. 


An additional six-day training program, held in camp 
prior to opening proved valuable. This training scheme 


= 1% = 


was carefully evaluated with a view to improving if 
next year. This critical evaluation will play an im- 
portant part in improvements for next year. 


KANAWANA STATISTICS 


Age of Campers 1960 Length of Stay in Camp 1960 
8 at 
9 i | week 0 
10 76 2 weeks 269 
1 | 97 weeks ) 
12 99 é weeks 129 
| 79 5 weeks and more z 
| h3 6 weeks and more 16 
2 15 8 weeks and more 26 
| | 


VOYAGEURS '60 


A Camping Project for Senior Teenage Boys 


The YMCA has been concerned about the needs of the ol- 
der boy in camping. What kind of summer adventure 
could the YMCA offer to answer the needs of a teenage 
boy . - » It had to be a kind of experience that would 
challenge him physically and intellectually; that would 
appeal to his boyish imagination; that would stimulate 
him to recognize and accept the ‘responsibilities of 
growing into manhood. 


in 1959 the Camp Committee set up six three-week canoe 
trip "voyageurs" adventures into the Quebec northlands. 
This test project involved 430 boys, I to I7 years old. 
A “voyageurs” group consisted of five boys and a sen- 
ior YMCA leader. 


No Ordinary Camp-Out Trip 


With the 1959 experience to draw on, a general pattern 
of program in 1960 was three days in base for train- 
ing; a short three to five-day trip; return to base 
for two or three days, and out again for a long trip. 
It was felt that a group orientation to the setting 


= i = 


and to each other and to the equipment is necessary. 
The first short trip was meant to do this, and be a 
climax to the orientation. 


In their report, the leaders were unanimous in main- 
taining that the Voyageurs should be a “bush camp- 
ing group" and not a "“canoe-tripping group". Bush 
camping stresses campcraft, hiking, and canoeing for 
a means of transportation. The rule of the "J's" was 
established, and proved to be all inclusive -- Initi- 
ative, Imagination, and Inventiveness -- these were 
the main requirements of a group and its leader. 


SUMMER DAY CAMPS 


Eight day camps and summer fun clubs were operated 
by branches during the summer of 1960. These two 
types of program are identical in purpose, but dif- 
ferent in technique. 


In the day camp, an actual out-of-town camp site is 
obtained to which the youngsters travel! by charter 
bus each morning. Lakeshore 'Y!' and Lachine-Dorval 
Branch used the camp Perrot site on Lake St. Louis. 
Here, "campers" spent the day building teepees, lean- 
tos, making cook-outs, and engaging in all the fas- 
cinations of Indian council lore. These are all the 
experiences of a regular resident camp and yet the 
youngsters return home in time for supper. 


SUMMER FUN CLUBS 


The Summer Fun Clubs are similar in philosophy, but 
they are not centred on a particular camp site. 

Clubs were operated by International, Northmount, 
Northeastern, Westmount, Siouthwe'stern,.r and Notre. . 
Dame de Grace. This is a five-day a week program of 
special outings, picnics, crafts, plant visits, com- 
petitive events, and recreational games. Some of the 
program is operated in the city branch, some is out- 
of-town picnicing, and some is in the form of museum 
and plant visits by charter bus. 


There were 1,879 children enrolled in 1960 Day Camps 
and Summer Fun Clubs with a total program attendance 
of 26,762 over the seven-week period through July 
and August. 


baa 


Leadership for this work came ouf of branch staffs 
and was supplemented with experienced leaders from 
our own University-YMCA Fellowship training group, 
and specially skilled people for certain crafts in- 
struction. In addition, volunteer leaders included 
college and high school students and mothers of par- 
ticipating boys and girls. 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY 


In this past decade the public awareness of education 
and the growth of education institufions has been phe- 
nomenal. At Sir George this growth is vividly porf- 
rayed by the.student enrollment which since 1950 has 
shot up from 34,157 to 6,238 (University only =-- Schools 
are reported Separately). 
The question of sheer numbers has become one of our 
crisis problems. To cope with it in 1960, admission 
quotas were set for new students in the various fac- 
ulties and departments. To the University's pleasure, 
and to its surprise the number of drop-outs in the 
upper years was much lower than this quota plan fore- 
cast with the net result that in 1960 our facilities 
and staffs were taxed béyond our optimum limit. There 
appears no answer to this pressing problem in the year 
ahead. 


The year 1960 held special significance for all Quebec 
universities in the final passage of "Bill 58" and two 


other educatian bills by the Quebec Legislature. 


Quebec universities, after a long constifutional con- 
troversy, were at last to be allowed necessary finan- 


cial assistance to help them fulfill their vital role 
in our provincial and national life. In compliance 
with the Act, Sir George Williams transferred to the 


Quebec Universities Fund the sum of $1,163,5)2, being 
the amount on deposit in our favour with the prior 
Federal Grants System. These funds are to be directed 
to capital expansion and development. 


The Quebec Bills further provided for the rising annual 
maintenance: costs of Quebec institutions. Commencing 


a a 


1960 provincial grants for this purpose were fixed on 
a statutory basis and set upon a declared formula of 
provincial population and student enrollment. Sir 
George, under this plan, received $01,793 for general 
maintenance operations in the 1960 budget. 


Certainly this assistance is a vital help to our In- 
stitution, but at Sir George our problem is severely 
aggravated in light of the formula on which grants 
have been based. The formula is so much per daytime 
full-time undergraduate student enrolled. At Sir 
George 1,562 qualify on this basis. The h,665 even- 
ing students are not allowable claims on this scheme 
in spite of the fact that this remains our vital and 
unique role among Quebec universities and that it 
accounts for 7% of our enrolled students. 


Other products In our economy come down in cost with 
mass production -- But even with increased "produc- 
tion", the cost of producing a university graduate 
has doubled in the last ten years. 


At this point a ten-year comparison is revealing: 

The gross operating budget of 1960 against that of 
1950 is up four and a half times. Registration is 
double. The fact is that it is costing twice as much 
to retain each student in the University today than 
it did ten years ago. 


This means that until the evening student is recog- 
nized as a bonafide student and qualified for the 
grants formula, this University must maintain the 
quality of its teaching standards and try its best 
fo meet increased enrollments largely out of dir- 
ectly earned income from fees. 


A New Library 


Early in 1960 the Board of Governors and the Metro- 
politan Board acted on the pressing need for impro- 
ved Library facilities. Construction of a sixth 
floor addition to the new University Building and 
moving-day were successfully completed, by the Christ- 
mas recess. The Library, a very handsome addition to 
our University, can now house 88,000 volumes, double 
its previous capacity. It provides much-improved 
reading rooms, reference rooms, and study areas for 
our students. 


= 17 « 


TOTAL REGISTRATION 


\ WINTER SUMMER 
Day Evening Total Evening Only 

1959-60 1959-60 1959-60 1959 

Art 66 t,2n9 = 1, 9 606 

Bite aki ert BE! hae 55 

Commerce 436 or 1,65! 539 
Engineering 61 . Cee “131 

Partial th 1,116 1, 130 duly | 


TOTAL 1,586 l, 665 6,251 2, 0! 


DEGREES AND DIPLOMAS 


in 1959 a record number of 4.66 degrees were granted by 
the University. 1In.1960 this record was sustained by 
a graduation class of 70. There were in addition 32 
other diplomas and certificates awarded to undergrad= 
uates and graduating students. These, together with 
32 diplamas listed below, were formally presented at 
two convocation ceremonies, both of which were presi - 
ded over by B. W. Roberts, Chairman of the Board of 
Governors. The spring posh yok was held at the 
Royal Canadian Hussars Armoury in May. The fall con- 
vocation took place in November at the,Salvation Army 
Citadel. " 


DEGREES AND DIPLOMAS GRANTED 


1960 1958 1955 
Bachelor Degrees. 70 01 335 
Associate Diplomas ace at 27 
Diplomas in Association of Science — A | 
Certificate in Engineering 15 --- === 


ACADEMIC HONOURS 


The practice of issuing a Dean's Honour List, estab- 
lished in 1958, was continued. If contained the hames 


- 18 « 


of h7 day and 9h evening students who were honoured 

at a special event in December. Woodrow Wilson Schol- 
arships were granted by the Woodrow Wilson National 
Fellowship Foundation to three graduates. 


NEW APPOINTMENTS 
In 1960 there were six new appointments to the full- 
time faculty, and on the staff Mr. Reginald Gates was 
appointed Administrative Assistant for Student Affairs 


in the day division. 


Faculty Appointments: 


Mr. Jacques Lenoir Mr. Alfred Pinsky 
Lecturer in Chemistry Lecturer in Fine Arts 
Mr. Serge Losic Mrs. Leah Sherman 


Lecturer in Modern Languages Asst. Prof. of Fine Arts 


dr. Cameron Nish Mr. Ds. Steele 
Lecturer in History Lecturer in Biology 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS SCHOOLS 


University education has enjoyed much public atten- 
tion recently. If is essential to note that educa- 
tion at every level adds a vital new dimension to the 
life of the Individual. The four Montreal YMCA Schools 
constitute an outstanding project in adult education in 
Canada. 


The Schools continued to serve the needs of a large 
group of Montreal youth, and, indeed, of many who can 
no longer be included in this category. 


REGISTRATION 


The total registration showed a marked 400 increase in 
the year 1959-60. This was largely due to space re- 
allocations between the University and the Schools. 
The following tables show the registration in the reg- 
ular term and that of the summer. 


- 19 2 


TOTAL REGISTRATION 


WINTER SUMMER 

1959-60 1959 
Day Evening Total Day Evening Total 
High School --- 2,36 2,369 --- 765 765 
Elementary School --- ‘ihe | --- ae —— 
Business School 26) TTR 120s 92 279 765 
School of Art 65 oa 159 tae) Led aad 
School of Retailing _63 --- 63 --- it 2 — 
TOTAL 592 83,38) RTS wi" WAU” 1, 156 


THE HIGH SCHOOL 


The Evening High School, with 2,00 students is the 
largest Protestant high school in Montreal, and seems 
to have an unlimited field for growth. For the past 
few years at “has vied with the evening University in 
occupying fully every foot of space assigned to it. 


Nonetheless, 400 more students were enrolled last year 
by adding to the Friday night and Saturday morning 
classes. On Saturday morning alone from 9:00 a. m. to 
1:00 p. mo, there are O classes meeting with a total 
of 1,765 students attending. 


This unique evening high school education project of 
the 'Y' is performing aivital need in our society. 

if is providing a real opportunity for young adult 

men and women who in fheir earlier years were finan- 
cial casualties or drop-outs of their public ‘school 
system. With the pangs of unemployment biting so -hard 


at the young :and unskilhed! worker, it is evident 
that this YMCA-sponsored Evening High School is "pion- 
eering™ in a field of education that is becoming an in- 


creasing social need. The number of diplomas and cer- 


tificates awarded by the High School over the past few 


years is as follows: - 


4960 1958 1956 


High School Diplomas 236 196 s 
Elementary School Certificates 7I oT 5 


2 Se « 


THE BUSINESS SCHOOL 


The Business School, which is the oldest of the Sir 
George Williams Schools, had a rebirth of vitality 
in the past two years. Over twice as many graduat- 
ing diplomas were awarded in 1959 and again in 1960 
than in any recent year. 


1960 1958 1956 


Business School Diplomas (Day) 8h. 3 58 
Business School Certificates 93 76 66 
(Evening) 


THE SCHOOL OF ART 


This School, with studios on the 5th floor of the Un- 
iversity Building, is closely related to the Fine Arts 
Department of the University. However, its I7 stud- 
ents are a separate group. The School has a growing 
reputation due largely to recognized artists who are 
instructors and the direction of Mr. John Stewart, the 
Director. An exhibition was held by the School which 
received favourable comment from the critics. 


THE SCHOOL OF RETAILING 


The youngest and smallest of the Schools is making ex- 
cellent progress. The course was changed in 1958 from 
a one-year to a two-year program, and June of 1960 saw 
the first graduation class of this new extended cur- 
riculum. 


The Co-operating Committee of the stores, in which the 
6% students are employed on a part-time basis, contin- 
ues to play a vital role in the work of the School. 

The Director, Miss Patricia Dunton, performs a valuable 
service, not only in directing the instruction of the 


School, but also in coordinating the work and study pro- 


grams of the students. It is believed that the curric- 
ulum in this School has been considerably strengthened, 
not only by ifs extension in time, but also by improve- 
ment of course offerings in certain subjects. 


= of 2 


BES tLE ELH CE SER WY FECES 


Three of our branches, Central, International, and 
Westmount have Men's Residences which provide accom- 
modation at reasonable cost fo young men. During 
1960 this service supplied 172,728 bed nights. 


In 1960, two complete floors operated as a residence 
for students from McGill University, Sir George Wil- 
liams University, and University of Montreal. There 
were 88 full-time day students registered in these 
single rooms. These rooms are provided at $1.00 per 
day .. . less than one-third the usual rate. This 
group is separate from employed young men, some of 
whom are also registered as evening students and liv- 
ing in the residence. 


The Drummond Street Residence, located in fhe down- 
town area, attracts the students, the servicemen, 

the 'Y' member from another city or country, the for- 
eign visitor, or the young man coming to the city for 
the first time. While in Montreal, they are rendered 
many of the services needed to make their stay in our 
city a pleasant one. 


The Building Management Committee continued fo work 
on plans for refurbishing of the Drummond Street Res- 
idence rooms. The Executive Committee of the Metrop- 
olitan Board accepted in principle their recommenda- 
tion for a proposed "pilot™ renovation of the sixth 
floor in the original Drummond Street section of the 
Residence. Our architects have been authorized to 
draw up complete plans and costs. Work on this pro- 
ject will co-ordinate with other space change-overs 
in the old second-floor Library and the proposed con- 
version of the fifth floor of the same residence to 
University and Metropolitan Offices. This work will 
proceed throughout 1961-62. 


P. =) Reg Ont Ay G&UMSE LL lets 


Many persons find within the YMCA a receptive and sym- 
pathetic atmosphere within which fhey can discuss in- 


a 22 x 


dividual problems. To adults and teenagers goes help 
on vocations, marriage, courtship, family, and person- 
ality adjustments; to youngsters, the problem of quit- 
ting school, choosing courses, dating; to parents, the 
Secretary frequently becomes helper or advisor on 
child problems. The immigrant, the new boy in fown, 
the unemployed youth .. . these are the focus of in- 
dividual staff attention. In 1960, there were 78,756 
recorded individual interviews. 


Central Branch had their second year of experience in 
a special adult counselling bureau under Dr. C. H. 
Skifch, on the Central Board of Management and Mr. A. 
McFarlane, consultant. This new project has been an 
invaluable aid to a great many of the young men and 
women who come to a big downtown YMCA Branch from all 
over the city and even from all over the world. 


821 Employment Placements 


Throughout 1960 the University Guidance Office regis- 
tered just over 4,500 student counselling appointments 
with the professional staff. The Placement Office (a 
branch of the National Employment Service) reports 
nearly five thousand interviews with students, six 
hundred interviews with employers, and 821 placements. 
In addition, over 40 firms and institutions sent rep- 
resentatives for one or more days to interview stud- 
ents at the University. 


mC AN D Pinkie F & a Te 


It has been said that if the Association did not hold 
an annual campaign, then quite apart from financial 
refurns, some equivalent undertaking would be a nec- 
essity -- a necessity because there is no other single 
event involving the same number of people from such a 
wide area engaged in a short-term common task which 
has so many by-products for the Association's service 
to the community. For example, it is one of the most 
fruitful sources of locating lay leadership and of 
developing lay leadership in the ongoing program, and 
also an avenue through which certain laymen have ren- 
dered some of their finest service to youth. 


-~ 23 = 


The Campaign was held November I to 28 with an objec- 
tive of $250,000. Final reports showed 13,70 gifts 
for a total of $27,237 which, although slightly less 
than the increased goal, was considered excellent in 
view of the sluggishness in certain areas of fhe econ- 
omy « 


Mr. James G6. Kendrick, as General Chairman, gave high- 
grade dynamic leadership fo the undertaking. He was 
assisted by an able group of division chairmen enlis- 
ted by the various branch Boards of Management. Mr. 
C. L. Walker for the second year was Special Names 
Chairman and again handled this important section of 
the organization most capably. 


The organization included more than two thousand vol- 
unteer workers, and, considering the number and the 
extent of the canvassing terrifory, if functioned ex- 
tremely well. There was improvement in the actual cov- 
erage of cards during the active campaign period, and 
in consequence less follow-up was required fhan in pre- 
vious years. This aspect of the effort is receiving 
careful study to determine possible changes which will 
produce further improvements. 


Mr. E. A. Collard of the Montreal Gazette was the spea- 
ker at the Opening Dinner. Mr. Collard gave a most 
inspiring address, relating some of the earlier char- 
acteristics of Montreal to contemporary urban life, 

and the importance of the YMCA in such a setting. ‘His 
message created a fitting climate in whdch to lJaunch 
the effort. The regular noon-day report luncheons also 
contributed to the morale of the workers. 


BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES 


Unusual items of building renovations and repairs in- 
cluded the following: - 


Drummond-Stanley Building 


Completion of a new modernized swimming pool and fil- 
tration system occasioned by the development of ir- 
reparable cracks late in 1959; conversion of approx- 
imately 44 rooms in the Stanley Street Residence for 
University faculty offices; installation of new ter- 
razzo floor in main and second floor corridors; 


= 2k = 


replacement with tile flooring of linoleum in boys! 
game room; installation of exhaust fans in boiler 
room; replacementof laundry extractor; renovation of 
walk-in refrigerator in cafeteria; and renewal of 
wiring for fire alarm system. 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY 


Major renovations included air conditioning of ad- 
ministrative offices and the provision of more ad- 
equate facilities for the Bursar and bookstore. 
This is the intial phase of an extended plan to ex- 
pand the administrative office accommodation. 


The new Library, situated on the sixth floor of the 
University Building, was completed during the year 
and occupied in December. Stack room space for 
88,000 volumes is provided as well as enlarged read- 
ing room accommodation. The entire area is air con- 
ditioned. Escalators from the third floor to the 
sixth floor were installed. 


KAMP KANAWANA 


An area of land containing 160 arpents, a large farm 
house, three barns, and two other buildings, was ac- 
quired to protect the camp property from encroachment 
by future property owners, and afford adequate safe- 
guards against pollution of the lake by waste disposal. 


A major renovation and replacement program was carried 
out including erection of a new caretaker's cabin and 
pioneer directors! cabin, general renovation of the 
kitchen and dining hall, replacement of the kitchen 
sewage system, repairs to lodge and hospital, and re- 
placement of boats and canoes. 


BEQUESTS 
During the year the sum of $1,000 was received from the 


estate of the late H. A. Layton for the International 
service of the Association. 


~ 25 = 


ENDOWMENTS 


Mr. Je Ro Crawford accepted the chairmanship of the 
newly-formed committee on endowments to develop ways 
and means of bringing the name of the YMCA Endowment 
Fund before individuals seeking to perpetuate an in- 
terest in youth through bequests for that purpose. 


WORLD SERVICE 
AND BUILDINGS FOR BROTHERHOOD 


Throughout the years if has been amply: demonstrated 
that any attempt to tell the story of World Service 
was rich in program potential. The widening of the 
horizons, the emphasis on equality of the races, the 
encouragement to share one's resources, the challenge 
of unselfish service, are all spiritual principles 
inherent in the basic purpose of the Association. 


The distribution of literature, the showing of the 
films "Buildings for Brotherhood", "One Face of Af- 
rica", and "On Top of the World", the participation 
in projects to raise funds, the visits of fraternal 
secretaries -- all combined to make more real today's 
"One World" and to emphasize opportunities to be a 
part of the YMCA's significant effort in the inter- 
national scene. 


As at the year end, fifty North Americans, including 
ll fraternal secretaries, were serving in 32 count- 
ries. Two graduates from Sir George Williams Univer- 
sity, formerly on the Montreal staff, are among the 
number now serving in the foreign field. Murray 
Faulkner in Thailand and Alan McCann in Efhiopia are 
already well established and taking their places as 
part of the Canadian personnel contribution to World 
Service. 


In the World today where a grim race is being run be- 
tween the forces of unity and disunity, between war 
and brotherhood, World Service represents more than 
mere help for people less well off than ourselves. 

It is co-operation across all frontiers of race, 
creed, and nationality with people who are working 
together for the kind of Christian world community 
all thoughtful citizens desire. 


= 265 = 


During the year two men brought their knowledge and 
enthusiasm to Montreal audiences on this important 
works: - 


David Wilson, Fraternal Secretary from Pakistan in 
March; David Howell, Fraternal Secretary from Lib- 
eria in April. 

Reference has been made in two annual reports to the 
Buildings for Brotherhood campaign to provide 116 
building projects in 44% countries at a cost of 
$16,000,000. The beneficiary countries undertook to 
provide $10,000,000, and North America, the balance 
of $6,000,000. Canada's share was $06,000 and Mont- 
real accepted a goal of $80,000 in addition to the 
regular objective of $29,500. Montreal has been suc- 
cessful in securing commitments for the full amount 
of the target with some deferred payments still to 
come. 


In fhe combined picture, the results at December 3l, 
1960, were as follows:- 
BUILDINGS FOR BROTHERHOOD 
OBJECTIVE AGT CAL 
Accepted Goal Cash 
North America $$ 6,351,000 $ 6,101,892 $3,910,486 
Canada 1.06, 000 395,622 250,509 


WORLD SERVICE 
OBJECTIVE AXE’ Usk E 
Accepted Goal Cash 
North America $ 1,915, 6h6 $ 1,665,126 $1,615,62) 
Canada 150, 000 147, 700 133,657 


The response to the B  B (two years) and World Service 
has been splendid, thanks fo the support of many indi- 


ag ae 


viduals and corporations, and the 
of deeply interested 


Metropolitan 
Centra | 

University Students 
University Others 
Westmount 
International 

Notre Dame de Grace 
Southwestern 
Lachine-Dorval 
Montreal East 
Northeasfern 
Northmount 
Lakeshore 

Camp Oftoreke 

Kamp Kanawana 


TOTAL 


PERS OW WEL 


BOARDS AND COMMITTEES 


leadership of a core 


laymen has been splendid as the 
following details by administrative units will show: - 


Cash _ and Pledges 


$ 80,000 


BUILDINGS FOR BROTHERHOOD WORLD SERVICE 


Actual 


& 30,000 


The affairs of the Association were administered by 
the Metropolitan Board of Directors, Branch Boards 


of Management, 
departments and sections of 


and committees related to the various 
its work. During the 


year, 1,759 persons were active on boards and com- 


mittees. 


VOLUNTEER LEADERS 


Many thousands of hours of volunteer leadership were 
given by people who acted as advisors, leaders, in- 


structors, and counsellors 
groups, clubs, 


in many crafts, interest 
and camping programs. The total num- 


ber of 1,908 people were involved in this way during 


1960. 


= 26-= 


STAFF - SECRETARIAL 


During the year, there were 57 professional YMCA Sec- 
retaries, 62 full-time employees, while 568 were em- 
ployed on a part-time basis. Included in the part- 

time personne! were 8 Fellowship Students from vari- 


ous 


parts of Canada, who attended Sir George Williams 


University and did program work as part of their pre- 
paration for YMCA Secretary-ship. 


EMPLOYED OFFICERS 


The 


following appointments and transfers took place 


among the employed officers during the year:- 


I S456 
rier, ard) 


325454 
eel eraY 


Jerry Jerrett became Hi-Y Extension Secretary, 
N. Do. Ge Branch, taking over from William Ger- 
hardt who moved to Moncton YMCA. 


* Reginald Gates, Administrative Assistant Day Stu- 


dents, Sir George Williams University, from Ass- 
istant Secretary, Lachine-Dorval Branch. 


* Rodney Glansdorp, Central Branch, Assistant Pro- 


gram Secretary, formerly Executive Secretary, 
Northeastern Branch. 


* David Annesley, Assistant Physical Director, Cen- 


tral Branch, replacing James Watt who went to 
Toronto. 


Milton D'Ganigian, Swimming Instructor, Central 
Branch. 


Kaye Smith, Boys and Girls Secretary, Internation- 
al Branch, replacing Vic Bryant who went to Edmon- 
ton YMCA. 


at William Bilton, Assistant Secretary, Lachine-Dorval 


Branch. 


* Raymond Rouse, Assistant Secretary, Lakeshore Branch. 


Frances Young, Womens and Girls Physical Secretary, 
Notre Dame de Grace Branch, replacing Carol Wright. 


* William Graham, Youth Secretary, Notre Dame de Grace 


Branch, replacing Jerry Jerrett who moved to Hi-Y 
ExtenSion work at the same branch. 


= 29_. 


OFFICERS 


Jo W. McConnell 
O. Bsa Thornton 
Colin W. Webster 
H. Roy Crabtree 
T. Denton Lewis 
J. Re. Logan 


DIRECTORS 


D. Sco Abbott 

Ro. Alexander 
Jo Ff. Ganmerort 
Turner Bone 

W. Bradshaw 

H. Te Clegg 

o- Norman Clelland 
Leslie Copland 
H. Cowie 

R. Crawford 

A. Emerson 

N. Hall 

E. L. Hamilton 

G. Arnold Hart 
John B. Frosst 

Rk. Eo ‘Heartz 


Can:) ° ) e 66 ° o 0° 


ZBmDero=sarnreem 


° 


BRANCH CHAIRMEN 


Central - J. E. Morgan 


F..B. Walls 


METROPOLITAN OFFICERS 


AND BOARD MEMBERS 


-Honorary President 
-President 
-Ist Vice-President 
-2nd Vice-President 
-3rd Vice-President 
-Honorary freasurer 


George M. Hobart 
Jo Go. Kendrick 
W'S: Kirkpatrick 
Herbert H. Lank 
W. F. Mainguy 

H. M. Mawhinney 
J. D. McKeown 

D. R. McMaster, Q. C. 
S.C. Norsworthy 
so Mo Pritchard 
B. W. Roberts 
Howard !. Ross 

A. E. Sargent 

H. Greville Smith 
Irving Ro Tait 

L. W. Townsend 


Northeastern - W. Neilson 


International - M. N. Davies Northmount - H. L. Johnston 
Lachine-Dorval - J. Breckenridge N. D. G. - Ej C. Ve. Norsworthy 
Lakeshore - R. S. Davies Southwestern - F. B. Peterson 
Montreal East --George T. Jones Westmount - J. C. Annesley 

Sir George Williams University - B. W. Roberts 


« 30~~ 


METROPOLITAN OFFICERS 


AND BOARD MEMBERS 


CAMP CHAIRMEN 


Boys? Camping Committee -G. C. Ro. Clouston 
Otoreke Camp Committee -Sharon Pearce 


ADVISORY BOARD 


T. Ho. Atkinson A. C. Jensen 

L. g. Be map Frederick Johnson 
Joseph M. Breen E. A. Leslie 

Henry G. Birks W. Fo Macklaier, Q. C. 
G. W. Bourke A. Wesley Mason 
Arthur H. Campbel | Jo Ge McConnell 

Murray R. Chipman Jo Wo McConnell 

J. P. Copland To. Ro McLagen 

Jo Ho. Davey A. Wo. McMaster 

S$. G6. Dobson Ro. O. McMurtry 

Vo Mo. Drury A. L. Paterson 

George V. Ferguson Fo. Ro. Phelan \ 
Se. 8. Foster, Y. C. Ro. E. Powell 

Jo A. Fuller Wo. W. Southam 

B. C. Gardner R. E. Stavert 

G6. B. Gordon “W. Taylor-Bai ley 

H. Jo Hannaford Guy Tombs 

R. D. Harkness W. Ko Trower 

Ro Ao C. Henry R. C. Vaughan 

George R. Hodgson Maj-Gen. A. E. Walford 
Ro C. Holden, Q. C. “M. Mo Walter 

W. H. Howard, Q. C. E. C2 Wood 


%* Deceased 


- 3 hE 


NOMINATING CGOSBShiI TTEE 


The Report of the Nominating Com- 
mittee to the Annual Meeting of 
the Young Men's Christian Associ- 
ation of Montreal. 


Monday, April I7th, 1961 


Mr. Presidents 


Your Committee, having carried out ifs duties in accord- 
ance with the constitution, hereby nominates the follow- 
ing active members to become directors of the Associa- 
tion for a three-year ferms- 


H. Roy Crabtree Re Aw Irwin 
Jieeiaith.. Bainerort T. Denton Lewis 
L. H. To. Clegg A. Turner Bone 
G. Arnold Hart Jo R. Crawford 
E. Ro. Alexander A. E. Sargent 
W. D. Robb D. S. Wikio 

J. De Houwhding C. Le. Walker 


Your Committee wishes to report that, at the last meet- 
ing of the Metropolitan Board of Directors, the follow- 
ing were elected members of the Advisory Board for a 
three-year ferm:- 


A. H. Cowie Herbert H. Lank 
Henry G. Birks J. Ho. Davey 

B. C. Gardner H. Jo Hannaford 
R. D. Harkness George R. Hodgson 
R. C. Holden A. C. Jensen 
Fredéerick Johnson A. L. Paterson 


Respectfully submitted, 


W. Ne. Halli (Chairman) 
Os .R. ReMaster, Q. C. 
BE. ke Hemi tion 

M. N. Davies 

F. B. Peterson 

E. C. Norsworthy 


Oe 1-7 UA RK ¥ 


We record with sorrow the pas- 
sing of a number of friends of 
the Association. 


H. J. Bul ley A. C. Lanning 
H. A. Layfon 


Frederick Carson Eo. tSrecleiaer ker 


G. S. McFadden 
C. Desgroselliers Isabel McLennan 


James Muir 


James A. Eccles 
ts A. Bkers F. W. Owen 


W. F. English 


H. G. Hanneman GsasRinke Sims 


A. A. Hodgson CeoFs Sihse 


€.. -B. def ferson 


M. Me. Walter 
Florence B. Laing J. Te. Whiteford 
W. Ge. Lambert J,oF . Witseon 


Jo Ss He. Wurtele 


- 434 - 


RPPHRECTAT ton 


It is never possible to adequa- 
tely express appreciation to 
the many thousands of individu- 
als and organizations who con- 
tribute each year to the work 
of the YMCA, but we do wish to 
record the following acknowled- 
gements. 


° ce e TO the members of the BOARDS and COMMITTEES who gave 
guidance and counsel to the work of the Association 
during the year. 


- e e TO the hundreds of volunteer ADVISORS, LEADERS, and 
COUNSELLORS who played such an important part in 
group, club, and camp program. 


» © e« TO the many INDIVIDUALS and CORPORATIONS whose gen- 
erous financial assistance has made the year's work 
possible. 


« « « To PRESS» RAGNO,9 and TELEVISION tor, The Aelp They 
have given in interpreting the work of the Associ- 
ation to the community. 


« »« © JO fhe individwal MINISTERS and CHURCHES In the 
Greater Montreal area, the Greater Montreai Council 
of Churches and the Council of Christian Education 
of the Province of Quebec with whom we have so much 
in common. 


2 © © TO the PROTESTANT SCHOOL BOARD for making available 
school gymnasiums, offices, and club room space to 
supplement our own building facilities. 


2 © © TO other YOUTH ORGANIZATIONS: The Young Women's 
Christian Association, The Young Men's and Young 
Women's Hebrew Associations, The Quebec Federation 

of Youth Organizations, and The Montreal Counci | 
of Social Agencies. 


= 3h = 


THE YEAR IN STATISTICS 


Figures are meaningful only when 
considered as persons who are 
playing and learning together in 
a Christian environment. Char- 
acter is influenced by associa- 
tion with like-minded people. 


ENROLLMENT 
VOLUNTEER SERVICE 
Group Leaders 1,908 
On Boards, Committees and Councils 1,759 
HEALTH AND PHYSICAL FITNESS 
Gymnasium Activities 595 
Swimming Classes e319 
Swimming Tests and Lessons } 
No. Of individuals taught to swim-1, 15] 
Teams, Leagues, Rinks, and Playfields 1,99. 
Athletic Events rene 
GROUPS AND CLUBS - 2,)26 
Purpose and Fellowship Clubs 
interest Groups and Classes 2h, 352 
INFORMAL EDUCATION 
Crafts and Hobbies 1,335 


Lectures, Forums, and Study Groups 
Motion Pictures and Television 
Indoors and Outdoors 

Libraries, Book Circulation 


RELIGIOUS EDUCATION 


Meetings, Study Groups, Chape| 


- 45 - 


ATTENDANCE 


123,996 


12, hg 


ENROLLMENT ATTENDANCE 


SOCIAL RECREATION 


Dances, Parties, and Social Affairs 66, 77 
Dramatics and Musical Events hy, 94, 
Trips, Outiags, Etc. 3, 183 
CAMPS 


Boys 82 11,998 


Men 32 im 
Women 811 1, 260 
Leaders 80 5, 00 


Total Camper Enrollment 2,405 
Total Camper Days 26, 178 


City Camps and Fun Clubs - 8 1,879 26, 762 


PERSONAL SERVICES 


Counselling and Interviews 78, 753 
Employment Placements 82 I 

Residence Placements 172,961 
Food Services 351,22 


FORMAL EDUCATION 
Sir George Williams University & Schools 
No. of Students-13,554. No. of Differ= 
ent €lasses-1,022, 
No. of Student Class Hours 3,632,323 
COMMUNITY SERVICE 
No. of Outside Organizations Using 'y! 

facilities 725 . 
No. of Times 2, 383 67,399 
GROSS ATTENDANCE 


Clubs, Groups, Program Events 
& Personal Services 5,500, 000 


- 36 - 


