MONTREAL 


YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCLATION 


THIRTY-FIRST 


ANNUAL REPORT 


SUBMITTED 


TUESDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 5, 1882, 


MONTREAL: 
JOHN LOVELL & SON, BOOK & JOB PRINTERS. 
1883, 


Se eae 


Montreal Young Men’s Christian Association. 


if 
| 


wv 


LIST OF OFFICERS AND COMMITTEE 
For 1888. 


Lresident. 


J. MURRAY SMITH. 


Yice-Lresidents. e., 


GEO. HAGUE, DR. KELLEY. 
T. JAMES CLAXTON. J. J. MACLAREN. 
@Vreasurer, 


J. S. McLACHLAN, 


Secretary. 


D. A. BUDGE. 


osistant Secretary, 
G. A. KUHRING. 


Committee. 


D. BENTLEY. H. J. MUDGE. ROBT. SMITH. 

L. H. PACKARD. R. THOMAS. J. B. PICKEN. 
JOHN MURPHY. H. L. PUTNAM. W. TEES. 

R. H. HOLLAND. J. DUMARESQ. H. W. BUCHANAN. 
D. W. ROSS. W. B. DAWSON. ROBERT LOGIE. 
D. MORRICE. W. G. BROWN. J. T. DONALD. 

W. PAUL. F. E. JODERY. T. B. BROWN. 

R. HENDERSON. A. D. LANSKAIL. H. 0. WILSON. 

A. KINGMAN. CHAS. CUSHING. C. E. T. WOODLEY. 
R. H. BUCHANAN. J. IVINSON. JOHN KENNEDY. 
GEO. BISHOP. G. W. LAMB. G. E. WILLIAMS. 


WARDEN KING. T, W. FAIRMAN, W. SLOAN. 
eBoard of Directors. 


T. JAMES CLAXTON. J. TORRANCE. THOS. CRAIG. 


T. H. HODGSON. GEO. YOUNG. — R. IRWIN. 
CHARLES ALEXANDER.®, D. MORRICE. H. A. NELSON. 
HENRY LYMAN. L. PATON. E. K. GREENE. 


Dr. BAZIN. D. W. ROSS. W. REID. 


STANDING COMMITTEES FOR 1882-83, _ 


J.S. McLachlan. 
T. James Claxton. 
Warden King. 


R. H. Holland. 
H. W. Buchanan. 
T. B. Brown. 


T. James Claxton. © 


Geo. Hague. 


J.’ Dumaresq. 
A. D. Lanskail. 
J. Louson. 


Dr. Bazin. 
R. W. McLachlan. 


W. Tees. 
J. B. Fudger. 


Wm. F. Castle. 
Wm. Law. 


Geo. Williams. 
John Ohling. 
Alex. Moore, 


R. Henderson. 


D. A. Budge. 


Finance : 
L. H. PACKARD, 


D. Bentley. 
W. G. Brown. 
R. Logie. 


Chairman. 
W. Paul. 
J. B. Picken. 
R. Thomas. 
Devotional, 
D. W. Ross, . Chairman. 
Geo. E. Williams. H. L. Putnam. 


Henry Morton. H. J. Mudge. 
J. D. Dougal. A. M. Crombie. 
Sducational, 


Dr. F. W. KELLEY, 


J.J. Maclaren. 
D. Morrice. 


John Kennedy. 
A. Kingman, 


C. Cushing. 
Nlission. 
R. HENDERSON, 


R. H. Buchanan, 
P. Sinclair. A. Kingman. 
Geo. Lamb. A. M. Craig. 


oooms ane Library. 


Chairman. 
R. Smith. 


Dr. F. W, KELLEY, . . . Chairman. 


F. E. Jodery. 
A. C. Cummings. 


Chas. T. Williams. 
C. Cushing. 


Mlembership. 
W. PAUL, 


T. B. Macauley. 
A. D. Lanskail. 


Chairman. 


R. N. McCallum. 
Wm. King. 


Meception, 
J. DUMARESQ, . 


R. C. Brewer. 
B. W. Grigg. 


Chairman. 
‘A. G. Weightman. 
Alex. Macfarlane, 
G. A. Kuhring. 


dwvitation, 
A.D. LANSKAIL, . . «+ Chairman. 


Jas. Rea. 

Wm. Sloan. 
J. Simpson. 
Jos. Locke. 


WY. Seaman. 
Alex. Macfarlane. 
Chas. H. Martin. 
F. Holman. 
Commercial Gravellero, 
R. H. HOLLAND, 
Chas. Morton. 


Chairman. 
F. B. Smith. 


Smployment. 


Wm. TEES, . . . Chairman. 


Chairman. 


D. Morrice. 
Dr. Bazin. 
W. Tees. 


J.T. Donald. 
J.J. Maclaren. 
T. Gazley. 


Warden King. 
T. H. Hodgson, 


F. Lonsdale. 
W. Bell Dawson. 
T. Gazley. 


. W. Fairman, 
< 


F 
G. A. Kuhring. 


G. A. Kuhring. 


W. Outhwaite. 
T. M.f{Henderson. 


F. E. Jodery. 


G. A. Kuhring. 


GENERAL SECRETARY'S REPORT. 


THis YounG MeEn’s CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION IN MONTREAL 
is a link in that great chain of Associations which now may truly be 
said to belt the entire globe, as they are to be found in almost every 
country, and even on many of the Islands of the Sea. 


M/ vv. 
This Association was organized in December, 1851, and dedicated 
the present building in September, 1873. 


® 


The object we have in view is the development of the spiritual, 
moral and intellectual condition of young men ;—to bring them into 
a saving relationship with Jesus Christ, and to educate them so that 
they may become active workers in the Church of God. 


That this object has been carried out during the 31st year of our 
existence will be evident from the reports presented by the various 
Sub-Committees this evening, which show how highly favored we 
have been in the enjoyment of God’s blessing, and for which we here 
desire to acknowledge our deep sense of gratitude. 


In aiding and directing the spiritual interests of our Membership ; 
in welcoming the hundreds of young men who have come to our City 
as strangers ; in seconding the efforts of those who have been seeking 
employment ; in visiting and caring for the sick, and through these and 
every other way leading men to seek for that higher and better life of 
which God is the author, and which is possible through faith in 
Christ, we have not only filled a place in this City, but have had far 
more work than we could possibly overtake with all our machinery 
and organization. 


The educational work which was initiated last year proved so 
successful that the Committee have continued it this year, and have 
met with even greater encouragement. 


6 


CORRESPONDENCE.—This department increases as the Association 
and its spheres of work become better known. Letters of introduction 
crowd upon us from all sections in which fathers, brothers or friends 
lay upon us the burden of directing the welfare of their young men. 
This we are glad to do, in providing suitable lodgings, directing as to 
employment, and in making these young men feel they have a home 
amongst us. Results of the most cheering nature have occurred ; 
and some who are now members of churches and active workers came 


to us in this way. We give an extract from one of many letters 
received. 


ENGLAND, Nov. Ist, 1882, 
Mr. D. A. Bunce, 


My DEAR SIR,—My son having told me of your Christian kindness towards 
him, I cannot express to you my feelings of gratitude. He speaks of your pray- 
ers for him in such a manner as assures me of the interest you take in his welfare 


Anything you can do to help him in his spiritual life wil] only deepen the grati- 
tude ofa fond father’s heart, etc., etc. 


Correspondence is continued where time will permit with young 
men who have been interested through our services, but who have 
left the city. This is a most Important work, and should receivé more 
attention. The following extract is from a letter writte by a French 


Canadian young man, who was a frequent attendant at the Sunday 
evening meetings ; 


ST, CATHARINEs, May 30th, 1882. 
MR. D. A. Bupeg, 


ae 

DEAR SiR,—I write to thank you for your letter, which did me much good, 
My present employer, with whom I live, isa Sunday School teacher, and each 
morning and evening we have prayers and sing those beautiful hymns I enjoyed so 
much at your meetings, My employer’s wife takes her Bible and gives me one, and 
each Sunday afternoon we read it together, and what I do not understand she 
explains to me. I do not intend to become a Protestant, but I notice that while our 
Church makes us miserable by fasts, penances, etc. » and even on our death-bed by 
representations of Purgatory, yours is all love for Christ and trust in Him, etc. 


Letters upon all subjects which concern the welfare of young 
men pour in upon us, making the average number of letters written 
each month from 180 to’200. 16 5 letters of introduction have been 
given to young men going to other Associations. 


7 


EMpLOYMENT.—This is a very difficult branch, and its claims are 
of sufficient importance to occupy the entire time of one man. It is 
therefore necessarily contracted by the limited time which the Secre- 
tary and Assistant have to give to it. We take every precaution to 
secure information concerning the applicants, and IN ALL CASES 
give the employer full knowledge. 152 young men have registered as 
applicants, and out of that number 95 situations have been secured. 


EMPLOYMENT WORK. 


Axvorantarts cGe Se aweeelgass 10, Hardware Clerks oes cpp dese snaa I 
Assistant Office Clerks........... 29 Law art See Ha edie beats I 
Books and Stationery....+.e see. % . Painters on} bs. cod aes siabra eee 4 I 
Bricklayers and Masons......... I Photographers ...... s+. seee ees I 
Butchers. 2.20: se. ere mes 2 Plumbers and Tinsmiths......... 2 
Cabinetmakers.... ...ee. ceeeees 20 Peertbte id guise tages tea des 3 
Carpenters ...- sees eeee ceeeeees I PrinteFs.<.. + 5,0m,0¢ nel s099 +208 2 
Coachmen and Grooms.....++e«- 14 Railway Brakesmen.........6.-- 4 
Civil EngineerS......eeeeeee cece I Do). ClevEs4 a0 ok ae AD fe) 
Commercial Travellers......+.+. I... SAIGICTS | 3«, 0 sre Ae eee hee se Faas Maen: 
Confectioners ...... .ocese soccce T° Bextes v.00 + ge Hague we ean I 
Dry Goods Salesmen .......---. 18. Shoemiakers 5. 0k teres ry ap I 
DruggistS.... .sseecceeee coceees 2 Shorthand Writers........ce+e.s- I 
Engineers and Machinists........ 3 Solicitors... vesesseeeecee sees ee 
Farmers Ooi sew be te oes ase 1 (Storethen o\s-04 sagas oF ov eee 7 
Fruarriets. ividg bance eee cea area t J Seilorbad acd o kh Goud ao Bans I 
Gardeners. ... s6c8 cseeee veosene 3 Waiters and House Servants..... 5 
General Work.... sccoess secece 7 Watchmakers .....seeeeeeee vere I 
Grocery Clerks... .seesseee ees 4 Weavers....+. ee eee rr. 3 
Total number registered.....++-- . 152 


Situations provided for...+...+++ 95 


Boarpinc Hovuses.—Our Register is consulted daily by strangers 
and others. We have on the list 86 houses where board and lodging 
can be obtained, and 62 houses where furnished rooms with partial 
board can behad. There is agreat scarcity of good boarding houses 
in the city, and we should be glad to receive the names of private 
families willing to take boarders ; references will be required in each 
case. 


CoNVENTIONS.—This Association was represented by the Secre- 
tary and Assistant at the 9th Conference of General Secretaries, held 
in New Haven in June last. Over 250 delegates were present, and 
it was the largest and most important gathering which has yet been 
held. 


The International Conference of Railway Association delegates 
was held at St. Thomas, Ontario, in May last. Messrs. L. H. Packard, 


8 


R. Smith, Warden King, D. Graham, W. Walls and D. A. Budge, 
were delegates from this Association. Through this gathering special 
impetus was given to the Railway work in Canada. 

XN 


The second Dominion Convention was held in Truro, N .S.,1n July 
and Messrs. C. Cushing, W. Paul, H. Morton, Dr. Kelley, W. G. 
Brown, J. Baillie, F. Lonsdale and D. A. Budge, were sent as dele- 
gates. Unusual spiritual interest was manifest in these meetings, and it 
has resulted in uniting more closely the Associations of the Maritime 
Provinces with those of Ontario and Quebec. 


WEEK OF PRAYER.—The second week of November was observed 
by us in union with all the Associations. Young Men’s Metings were 
held each evening, and prominence was given to the noon-day meet- 
ings. ‘The largest young men’s meeting we have held this year was on 
Saturday evening, the 18th. A new feature was carried out which 
proved exceptionally useful in giving general information concerning 
our local work. An active worker was placed in the week night 
prayer meeting in the various city churches, and at the Pastor’s 
invitation gave foimfs in our work and solicited their prayers. 
Special sermons to young men were preached in almost all the city 
churches on Sunday, the roth inst. 


THE TEMPERANCE PLEDGE has received 247 signatures during 
the year from young men who have come voluntarily to the Secre- 
tary’s office for that purpose. Whenever possible, this work is 
followed up by personal visitation, either through the church which they 
attend or the Association, but in every case they are directed to Jesus 
Christ, who is alone able to give them power and freedom from this 
bondage. ‘There are those amongst our members and workers to-day 
who have been redeemed through this means. 


PERSONAL INTERVIEWS.—These cannot be counted, and almost 
every phase of human life is dealt with. Our invitation to young 
men is so full and free that hundreds take advantage of this opportu- 
nity for counsel and advice. Whenever possible, the Secretaries seek 
to lead these young men to Him who says “Call upon me in the day 
of trouble, and I will deliver thee and thou shalt glorify me.” This 
branch of our work needs special wisdom and grace, for which the 
Secretaries desire the continued prayers of the members. 


Losses By Deatu.— During the year some of our active workers 
and members have passed out from us; to them the opportunity for 


9 


service is past, and their names remind us to “ work while it is called 
day, for the night cometh when no man can work.” Mr. C. 
FALLON was one of our faithful tract distributors, who passed away, 
at the age of 26 after a singular and a painful illness, in October last ; 
Rost. DAIKERS, at the age of 21, through lingering consumption—he 
was also a faithful tract distributor and worker in the Boys’ Meeting ; 
Joun McKinnon, after two years’ lingering illness, died in the Hospital, 
in January last, rejoicing in the grace of God; Mr. Wm. Harper, a 
quiet Christian, who passed through much suffering, died in September 
rejoicing in hope of the glory of God. 


BENEVOLENT WorkK.—This is carried on in cases of special need 
amongst young men, and funds are placed in the hands of the Secre- 
tary through the kindness of individual members. 


PERSONAL.—We regret the removal from our General Committee 
and the list of our active workers of our much esteemed brother, Mr. 
S. F. Massett, who last May entered upon the pastoral charge of the 
Baptist Church at Kingsey Falls, Que. As Chairman of the Invita- 
tion Committee, and a leader of the work amongst the Railway men 
at Point St. Charles, our brother had become endeared to all who 
knew him by his conscientious, self-denying labors for Christ, and 
for the souls of young men. A Farewell Fellowship Meeting was 
held at the residence of Mr. J. S. McLachlan previous to his departure, 
where the workers had an opportunity of asking God’s blessing to 
rest upon him in his new field of labor. 


Pam, seed 
In May last Mr. G. A. KuHRING of Quebec was appointed to 
fill the position of Assistant Secretary, which he has done with much 
acceptance to the Committee and membership. 


In July Mr. F. Lonspate, late Secretary of the York (Eng.) 
Association, was appointed to take charge of the Christian work 
amongst the Railway men at Point St. Charles. He has also proved 
a valuable addition to our staff. 


We desire to acknowledge the hearty sympathy we enjoy from 
the pastors of city churches, and their readiness to co-operate whenever 
requested has doubtless added greatly to the success of our work. 


WHAT HAS BEEN THE RESULT ?—The interest of the Christian 
community has been awakened in our behalf, and a large amount of 
money and labor has been expended. But is that all? No! There 


ee ee 


10 


are two facts which are beyond question, and which cause usin an 
especial manner to thank God and take courage. 


The first is that from 150 to 200 young men have been engaged 
in some phase of self-denying, aggressive Christian work, where they 
are being trained, and thereby fitted to fill useful positions in the 
Church of Christ. 


The second is that scores of men have heard the Gospel and 
believed it to the salvation of their souls ; and we have abundant evi- 
dence by letters from many who have gone out from us to other cities, 
and by the personal life and testimony of those who remain here, that 
GoD’s POWER has been present to heal. . We copy extracts from two 
letters received but recently which will be of interest to all: 


November 12th, 1881. 
Mr.D. A. Bunce. 


My Dear Sir,—In the hope of encouraging you and others in the good 
work in which you are engaged, I beg to offer my humble and hearty thanks to 
God and to the members of the Young Men’s Christian Association for the happi- 
ness and blessing vouchsafed to me since I was led at your meetings to put my 
trust in Jesus Christ. That was indeed a happy day for me. Before all was dis- 
order and tumult. As often as Satan came with alluring temptations, down I fell; 
if I ever did resist, it was through FEAR, fear of God. Now, ‘I can do all things 
through Christ which strengtheneth me.’”? But I do not boast, you know what my 
daily business associations are, and without divine strength there is a slim chance 
against such odds, but I am comforted by the assurance, ‘‘ my grace is sufficient for 
thee,”’ and ‘* as thy day thy strength shall be.” 

Sincerely yours, 
FLY D853 


The following letter is from a man who is advanced in years, 
and we give it gladly as it exalts God’s power to save to the uttermost: 


November 7th, 1882. 
To THE SECRETARY, 


YOUNG MEN’s CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION, ‘ 


My Dear Broruer,—I feel it a great privilege to testify of the spiritual 
benefits received by me through your Association, and more especially in the Bible 
classes on Sunday afternoon and Tuesday evening. Through many years I have 
felt my need of a Saviour, and a great longing to be one of God’s own family, but 
these desires were always stifled. I made many resolutions, which were as often 
broken, and each time I fell lower into sin, until I was almost in despair. I tried 


11 


the pleasures and frivolities of the world, they would not do; I tried to become 
an infidel and deny God, but that was only a poor sham, as I did not believe what 
I professed to do; I then went for the forlorn hope of the sinner, strong drink, and 
had almost succeeded in my ruin, when God in His mercy plucked me as a “ brand 
from the burning.’ You may remember on the 25th May last a man coming to 
your office almost in delirium tremens, and asking to sign the pledge. That was 
me, but I had no thought of attending your religious meetings, for I had not opened 
a Bible for years, and had not one in my possession; but you prayed for me and 
with me, and kindly invited me to attend your class. Such words were new to 
me for years, and recalled scenes of long ago when a fond mother taught her only 
son his duty towards God. As I left the building I resolved to make one more 
effort, and I might have kept on trying my plans without any success had not 
God in His mercy showed me the Way, the Truth and the Life, with nothing for me 
to do but lay hold of it, and I was enabled to do so and now to rejoice. Thus 
through God’s mercy and the instrumentality of your Association I have been led 
from the very brink of Hell to sit down in pleasant pastures, where I can com- 
mune with God by prayer and through His word. 

_ My prayer is that God may bless your Association more and more, and 


through it win many poor sinners from darkness to light and from the power of 
Satan unto God. 


Yours sincerely, 


Your Secretary cannot close this report without referring to the 
harmony and unity of purpose which prevails amongst our Committee 
and workers and members, and also the kindness and forbearance 
and sympathy which has ever been extended towards himself in the 
difficult position of guiding and overseeing the various branches of 
the work. For this he desires to acknowledge his deep sense of 
gratitude to God. 

D. A. BUDGE, 
Secretary. 


12 


DEVOTIONAL COMMITTEE. 


Your Committee have charge of the direction of all the religious 
meetings held in the building, and have great pleasure in reporting 
much interest in the meetings throughout, and results in definite work 
amongst young men. Especially is it noticeable the prominence 
given to Bible study, which is the backbone of our work. We 
regret to report that Dr. Dawson was unable through pressure of 
engagements to resume his Sunday School Teachers Class this Winter, 
but your Committee hope next Fall to resume it under his able 
leadership. 


Your Committee also desire to express the indebtedness of the 
Association to the Rev. Prof. Fenwick for his continued and invalu- 
able help so freely given, not only in the Bible Class teaching, but 
in other meetings and by personal visitation. 


THE NOON-DAY MEETING 


Has been continued daily with the exception of five weeks 
in Summer, when the building was undergoing repairs. We cannot 
report this meeting to be as successful as it otherwise would be if 
more of our members took a personal interest in it. Since changing 
it to the lower class room, the attendance and interest has increased, 
and now the room is often crowded. Numberless answers to prayer 
have been realized, and in this respect it bears more fruit than any other 
meeting held. Requests for prayer should be sent to the Secretary ; 
and all who believe that God hears and answers prayer, and take 
delight in Christian fellowship, are cordially invited. 


Since Miss Eliza Macdonald has been unable to attend daily, 
Miss White has filled her place, and the Association is greatly indebted 
to these lady helpers for their kindness in leading the service of song. 


TUESDAY EVENING BIBLE CLASS. 


This Class, conducted by Prof. Fenwick, has had an attendance 
of from 40 to 75 during the year. During the vacation months it 
was continued by Mr. T. B. Brown, when the attendance and interest 
was good. It has been the means of the awakening and conversion 
of many souls, and the development in spiritual life of many more. 
The lessons are a continued study of the life of Christ. At the 
present time unusual interest gathers from the fact that several Jewish 
young men of superior character and attaiaments are seeking to know 


13 


the truth as it is in Jesus. Concerning this work Prof. Fenwick 
writes as follows : 


In reference to the Tuesday evening Bible class, twothings have very much 
impressed me. First, the largeness and regularity of the attendance, and the deep 
nterest which the members of the class manifestly take in the subjects under con- 
sideration. Week after week, in fair and foul weather, I go expecting to find an 
attentive audience, and am seldom disappointed ; and secondly, the marvellous 
fullness of the Life of the Lord Jesus. The freshness which marks its incidents, 
the rich meaning with which every act is replete, and above all the wisdom, grace 
and spiritual beauty of the Holy One Himself, have furnished night after night an 
inexhaustible source of profitable instruction. 


The very presence of the Divine Lord has been often realized ; and His con- 
tinued power to give rest to those who ‘‘labor and are heavy laden,” and ‘to 
save the lost,” has been graciously proven in our midst. 


The large proportion of young men from all the denominations who have 
attended the class has been a feature of intense interest. I may just add that to 
me, personally, the work has been one of great pleasure and of unmingled satis- 
faction. 


THE SECRETARY’S BIBLE CLASS, 


On Sunday afternoon, from 3 to 4, the Reading Room is now filled 
with from 60 to 80 young men, who meet to study the word of God. 
This attendance is kept up mainly through an Invitation Committee, 
who visit the hotels previous to the hour of meeting. ‘The Inter- 
national Scheme of Lessons is followed, and the conversational 
element is introduced as largely as possible. This class has abounded 
in fruit, and scarcely a week passes without manifest evidences of 
God’s blessing in the awakening of young men. During the year four 
have gone from it as Sabbath School teachers. The following 
extract from a letter will be read with interest, and is one of many 
which might be given: 

MONTREAL, July 15th, 1882. 
DEAR MR. BuDGE, 

I have derived much benefit through the Sunday afternoon Bible Class. I 
am thankful that my path was directed to this city, that I might come to a know- 
ledge of eternal life through Jesus Christ. It is a common error that God’s service 
is dull and dismal. I can add my testimony to the fact that the reverse is the 
case. When I knew not God I fell into sin and became its slave, but now my 
sins are blotted out, and the burden has been changed “ for His yoke which is easy, 
and His burden which is light.” If there are any young men away from home 
and friends as I was, I write this to tell them what great things God has done for 
me, et¢., etc., etc. 

Sincerely yours, 


|r ncn ert oe to ne A 


14 


THE TRAINING CLASS 


Was continued each Saturday evening during last winter, from 6.30. to 
7-30, with Professor Fenwick as leader. The object was to aid our 
workers, so that they might the more intelligently, and with more 
confidence, take part in the public religious services of the Association. 
Various methods of study were adopted, best calculated to draw out 
the talents of the members. The papers or addresses were brief, and 
afterwards criticized by the Professor. The following were some of 
the subjects—‘ What gave Christ Power as a Teacher?” “ Why 
Salvation must be by Grace.” “ Why is the Gospel the Power of God 
unto Salvation ? ” ‘‘ Why is Repentance Necessary to Salvation ?” “The 
humanity of Jesus Christ.” “The Divinity of Jesus Christ.” “The 
office and work of the Holy Spirit,” and such like. The attendance 
averaged 16. This Committee consider this to be one of the most 
important additions to our work, and call attention of all our workers 
toit. Ithas been resumed this Fall, with an averagegattendance of 25. 


GOSPEL TEMPERANCE MEETING, 


The Sunday Afternoon Gospel Temperance Meeting has been 
well sustained this year, attendance averaging 65 (an increase of 1 5 over 
1881). At the close of each meeting tracts are distributed, and during 
last Christmas week 10,000 copies of a tract “A Whisper from St. 
Nicholas,” sent to the ladies of the City, requesting them to refrain 
from offering their visitors intoxicants. Messrs. Moore and Seaman 
have kindly distributed the tracts during the year. $114.1 5 has been 
collected for this; $82.27 worth (say 20,000) tracts purchased 
(2000 being sent to Volunteer Company at Brockville), leaving a 
balance in hand of $21.20. Beginning in November, 1881 (with the 
exception of the last Sunday in each month, when a successful prayer 
and testimony meeting is held) suitable subjects were introduced 
and this with a chairman for the month, instead of the week, has given 
point to the meeting. We are indebted to Rev. Mr. Rexford for the 
choice of subjects and to Miss Bernard for her valuable musical assist- 
ance. ‘The Gospel is put forth as the remedy for the drunkard, and 
our thanks are due to the Visiting and City Pastors for their 
hearty co-operation in this work—18 addresses being given by the 
latter. The pledge has received 83 signatures, being 17 over last 
year. Young men gifted for visiting work—so much neglected this 
year, owing to removals from the City—it is hoped will come forward 


15 


and engage in it. Much good has resulted, and we give God the praise, 
and are encouraged to labor for Him who giveth the increase. Your 
Committee respectfully suggest the introduction of two Alcohol 
lectures into the Course of Lectures, which would tend to benefit our 
meetings. 

YOUNG MEN’S MEETING. 

These meetings have been kept up regularly during the year, 
with ever-increasing interest, and direct evidence of God’s favor 
and blessing. A pleasing and encouraging feature is the large 
attendance of young men who come in as strangers, and who soon 
evince a deep interest in-:the sympathetic and earnest way the 
gospel of our Saviour is proclaimed. 


Many have testified at the meetings and to the Secretary person- 
ally that they have been there led to accept Christ as their own 
personal Saviour, and determine to devote their lives to his service, 
while the following summary of two from among many like letters 
written to the Secretary, will best show how richly God is blessing 
this part of our Association work. Both found joy and peace at the 
Saturday night meeting. 


I have spent the happiest time of my life in Montreal. I shall ever remember 
your kindness and the kindness of the young men of Montreal Association. I am 
happy to testify to the great love of the Lord Jesus Christ. Since I came here I 
have been truly blessed by Him, and trust you will always remember me, as I 
always will you and the Montreal Association in my prayers. 


Oh, thank God that He ever directed my feet to the Young Men’s Association, 
It was He who found me, and not me who was looking for Him. For 21 years 
I followed Satan, almost the worst of his followers, and that, too, in spite of warning 
day by day, and yet, praise God, He has indeed been mindful of me and brought 
my feet out of the mire and clay and set them ona rock, even Jesus Christ, the 
Rock of my salvation. Thank God, He has done this, and now ought I not to be 
up and doing something for him who has done so much for me? Oh pray for me 
and ask them to pray for me at the meeting. Oh I feel happy indeed since I gave 
my heart to Christ. 


We are by these evidences led to thank God and look in faith to 
Him for larger manifestation of His saving grace and power. 


SUNDAY NIGHT EVANGELISTIC MEETING 


Has been regularly held throughout the year, in the large Hall of the 
Association (excepting on three Sundays, during repairs, when the 
the meetings took place in the Reading Koom). The attendance has 


16 


been uniformly large, averaging from 300 to 350 persons—on some 
occasions much larger, as notably last Sunday evening (November sth) 
when Mr. Williams gave an address, when, after the floor and gallery 
had been packed, yet it was necessary to turn away 75 or 380 people for 
want of room. This has happened more than once, and speaks for the 
attractiveness of these simple meetings. Such a thing as there being 
no room ata religious meeting has sometimes caused surprise from 
its comparative novelty, and those who could not obtain admission 
are not always so philosophical or practical as one gentleman, 
evidently a stranger and a Christian, who, upon being told at the foot 
of the stairs by the Secretary that there was “no more room,’ after 
expressing his surprise, said that at least he could “ have his part in 
the good work,” even if he couldn’t get in, by “praying for it all the 
way home.” 

Whilst many visit the “ enquiry” meeting (always held in the 
Reading Room) it is not possible to speak of results, or perhaps wise 
to estimate them, but, from a record kept from 1st July to 25th Octo- 
ber, say 4 months, it was found, there had been 54 enquirers, and 18 
of these had been introduced to Pastors of our Churches, some most 
interesting cases have been met with, 2 or 3 of which are specially 
spoken of by the Secretary. The improvement in the singing and 
increased assistance in this department are noteworthy, and have been 
of great help to the Chairman in the conduct of the Meetings ; and 
here it is but proper to acknowledge the devoted services of the 
Organist, Walter Outhwaite, whose regular attendance, good playing, 
and hearty sympathy, in the services, have been most helpful. The 
lowering of the platform, and cheery appearance of the Hall since 
renovated, have undoubtedly had their share in increasing the attract- 
iveness of the Meeting, and we enter on a new season with great 
promise of increased usefulness. 


THE BOYS’ MEETING. 


is held every Friday evening from 8 to 9 o'clock, its object being to 
lead boys to see Christ as their own personal Saviour, and to seek 
FIRST the Kingdom of God and also His righteousness, and to build 
up and strengthen those who are beginners in the Christian life, and 
make them useful workers in the Master’s Vineyard. 

We believe that children can be converted at a very early age, 
for God “often hides thes: things from the wise and prudent and 
reveals them unto BABES.” 


eS. 


17 


As every boy has a precious soul to be saved, and knowing that 
it is not the Father’s will that “any of these little ones should perish,” 
we are bound out of love to Him to do all in our power to bring 
them to the Lord Jesus Christ. 


After the opening services all are invited to take part, even if it 
be only reading a verse of Scripture, and in this way the incorruptible 
seed is scattered and sown, and will bear fruit abundantly in the 
Master’s own time and way. ‘Tracts are distributed, and we pray the 
parents may be reached by this. 


A young man recently testified that several years ago he came 
to the meeting for amusement and fun, but words he heard have 
never been forgotten, that by God’s grace he felt the need of a 
Saviour, his eyes opened, and he saved, by the finished work of 
Christ. A young lad from England said the words, “He that 
believeth on the Son hath everlasting life,” pointed out to him, had 
been blessed to him, and his bright face and interest taken in the 
works confirmed it. 


We intend this winter to give the workers a list of Boys to call 
for on their way to the meeting; this will, we trust, increase their 
interest and our numbers. 


Subjects are provided and printed on card to induce them to 
study their Bible at home. About fifty boys have signed our Pledge 
Book against Intoxicants and ‘fobacce. A few of the boys have 
become members of the Children’s Scripture and Prayer Union, the 
object being to read the same portion of God's word daily, and once 
a week ask God’s blessing upon all the other members. 


Invitation slips are also given the boys to distribute. We regret 
the loss of one or two of our class by death. One extremely missed 


owing to the active assistance he gave, his death was very happy and 
peaceful. . 


Since Mr. Kuhring, the Assistant Secretary, has kindly volunteered 
to play the melodeon, the boys seem to be more interested, and our 
attendance at present averages about twenty-two. We would ask the 
earnest prayers of all God’s people on behalf of His work, that the 
Spirit of God may help us to remove all hindrances to His blessing, 
so that His power to save and strengthen may be manifested and 
His name be glorified. 

T. JAMES CLAXTON, 


B Chairman. 


18 
EDUCATIONAL COMMITTEE. 


The educational work begun last year has been continued this 
season, as the need was no less urgent. and the former success so 
great. As before, the services of the very best lecturers and teachers 
have been sought, the fees kept at almost nominal rates, and only 
such changes introduced in the course of study as were justified by 
necessity or the year’s experience. To classes in French, Com- 
mercial Arithmetic, Bookkeeping and Phonography was added one 
in Practical Geometry and Mechanism under the charge of Prof. 
McLeod of McGill University, who by his experience as a teacher 
and engineer is specially fitted for this important work, 


The Popular Medical Lectures and the course in American 
History have been continued, Chemistry has been exchanged for 
Popular Astronomy, and there has been added a course of ten 
Lectures on Literature and Biography by some of the best lecturers 
obtainable. 


By circular and advertisement the young men of the city were 
informed of the advantages within their reach, and they have 
responded well. Though in some respects the attendance is not so 
large as last year, it is more regular, and the work, consequently, 
much better performed. 


The financial outlook promises well, and it is hoped that by the 
further efforts of the members the treasury of the Association will 
not be called upon to make good any deficiency. 


CLassEs.—By the use of the room on the ground floor the 
pressure on the second flat has been removed, and the comfort and 
convenience of all concerned greatly increased. In Commercial 
Arithmetic, conducted by Mr. C. A. Humphrey, the attendance has 
averaged 50; in French, taught by J. L. Morin, B.A., 55 to 60; 
in Practical Geometry and Mechanism, 35; in Phonography, taught 
by Mr. Budge, 30; in Bookkeeping, taught by Mr. J. M. Duff owing 
to temporary absence of Mr. Ross, about go. 


Lecrures.—The medical course of lectures has been a most 
valuable one, but, considering the importance of the subject, the 
talent of the lecturers, and their care in preparation aud illustration, 
_ the attendance has been unsatisfactory. Instead of some I50 Or 200 
auditors this hall should have beea filled to its utmost capacity. 


+2 


In American History, the attendance has been from 200 to 2 50. 
Much interest has been manifested in this subject, as is shown by the 
attention of the audience, the number of those who take notes, and 
especially by the extensive reading in connection with the lectures. 


The lectures after the New Year cannot fail to be most interesting 
and instructive to all. Those in Astronomy by Mr. Chandler of the 
University will be copiously illustrated with views, while for the 
course in Literature and Biography the names of Principal Buckham 
of Vermont University, Revs. Dr. Stevenson, Dr. Clark, G. H. Wells, 
KE. A. Stafford, Canon Norman, J. S. Black, and Mr. J.T. Desai 
B.A., are a sufficient guarantee of popularity and permanent value. 


Of the very great benefits of this undertaking to the young men 
themselves, to the Association and to the city at large, it is unneces- 
sary now to speak. 


Thanks are specially due to Mr. Lonsdale for the very energetic 
and successful labors rendered in connection with this work of the 
Association. To the medical men, Drs. Osler, Roddick, Mills, Camp- 
bell, Buller and Cameron, for the time, talent, information placed 
at the disposal of Association. 


EF. WK LEY, 
Chairman. 


20 
MISSION COMMITTEE. 


R. HENDERSON, Chairman. 


H. L. Putman, George Lamb, Alex. W. Craig, 
A. Kingman, Robert Smith, W. Sloan, 
S. F. Massett, P. Sinclair, J. H. Carnegie, 
J. Dumaresgq, H. W. Buchanan, John Louson, 
R. H. Buchan a A. D. Lanskail, F. E. Jodery. 
A. P. Willis, 
WORKERS. 

W. Castle, J. Dumaresq, G. Harrower, 
H. Tucker, W. Law, A. B. Gwilt, 
W. Seaman, A. D. Lanskail, A. Ogilvie, 
H. McMurtrie, Jokn Wilson, W. Outhwaite, 
W. Holman, Geo. Inglis, Jas. Wilson, 
J. Rea, F. Lonsdale, ID. Cameron, 
— McMillan, R. H. Holland, R. H. Ross, 

And others. 


The Evangelistic work, which occupies the attention of this Com- 
mittee, was considerably hindered during the year through the inability 
of the Chairman on account of personal affliction to give it his active 
supervision, and finally in his resignation. For this reason the 
cottage meetings, owing to his frequent absence from the city, were 
not so successful asin former years. Other branches of the work 
were carried on with very encouraging results. 


THE HOSPITAL SERVICE 


Always abounds in incidents of interest. Two or more of our workers 
with three of our lady helpers have conducted this service each Sun- 
day morning from 9.30 to 10.30. The attendance varies from 10 to 
18 or 20, according to the number of convalescent patients in the 
Hospital. The singing is a most attractive feature, and the opportu- 
nity it gives for personal conversation is perhaps the chief result. On 
leaving the Hospital many come to our rooms, and we are able to 
direct and advise them according to their need. The visitation of 
the wards is carried on systematically by different members of the 
Association. 
COTTAGE MEETINGS 


Were held at 32 St. Urbain St., where a number of young men 
boarded. These meetings were full of interest and fruit, and they 
were only discontinued on account of the sickness and death of the 
landlady, Mrs. Duncan, whose death was remarkable for its calm 
trustful hope in God her Saviour. 


21. 


4o NazareTH Sr. was not found to be successful, although 
meetings were held there for some months. 

Forfar St. meeting, conducted by Mr. Massetr and others, was 
well attended, from 12 to 25, and real interest in the word of God 
was manifested. 

42 Sebastapol St. was continued throughout the Winter. 

Seigneurs St. meeting was commenced in February and con- 
tinued for two months with blessing to the home in which it was held. 


THE FIREMEN, 


With the exception of three or four Stations in the East End 
which were missed once or twice, all the Fire Stations have been 
visited every Sunday morning during the year, and religious magazines 
and papers distributed to the men. Through the generous gift o 
one member these magazines and papers have been procured direct 
from the publishers, and are not second-hand as in previous years. 
The workers are invariably well received by the men, and the papers 
much appreciated. Mr. A. D. Lanskail has carried on this work 
with the following members as assistants: Messrs. Henry Baker, 
Chas. Reddy, J. W. Rowley, and A. Riley. 


THE SAILORS’ MISSION. 


Under the chairmanship of Mr. Dumaresq, a band, numbering from 
14 to 20 of our members, have met at the Sailors’ Institute each Sun- 
day morning during the summer, at 8 o'clock. After mutual prayer 
they were supplied with tracts by Mr. Ritchie, the manager of the 
Institute, and proceeded to visit the sailors on all the ships in the 
harbor. They report the great kindness which they invariably meet 
with fromseamen. ‘Through these tracts and invitations many sailors 
are led to attend the meetings in the Institute. Song and Gospel meet- 
ings are held every Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday even- 
ings,in which the following members have taken part,under the direction 
of Mr. Ritchie: Messrs. A. Craig, G. A. Kuhring, R. H. Holland, 
W. Norris, G. E. Williams, H. W. Buchanan, F. Lonsdale and others. 
Mr. Ritchie reports that not only has the attendance been beyond 
that of last year, but unusual spiritual interest has been manifested, 
and many sailors have acknowledged the blessing received. The 
assistance of Miss White, Miss Craig, and other lady friends, has 
greatly contributed to the success of the gatherings. 


22 


VOLUNTEER CAMP, 


This service in Brigade Camps which our Association initiated 
last year at St. Johns was carried out on a more extended scale at 
Brockville, from September 6th to 18th, amongst the men of the 
Divisions under command of Lieutenant Colonel Maunsel, D.A.G. 


Mr. F. Lonsdale took charge of the work from this Association, and 
Mr. Little from Ottawa Association. Every aid possible was given 
by the Officers in Command, and our Reading Room and Meeting 
Tent, which was 60 x 40, was so tastefully arranged as to be one of 
the most attractive features of the Camp. Games for amusement of 
various kinds were provided and constantly in use. Some 700 letters 
were written, paper, etc., being provided, and 36 signed the temperance 
pledge, and great numbers of tracts and illustrated Gospel literature 
was circulated amongst the men. Meetings were held each evening, 
in which the Tent was crowded to its utmost capacity, and many 
enquirers were directed personally concerning spiritual life. Ere they 
left nearly all the men in camp came to bid the workers good-bye, and 
their expressions of thankfulness as to the benefits received were very 
cheering. On the Review Day the Hon. A. P. Caron, Minister of 
Militia, thanked the Association for doing this work, and stated that 
the healthy tone and well-being of the Camp was due to its influence. 
The following letters speak for themselves : 


OTTAWA, Oct. 2nd, 1882. 
D. A. Buncg, Eso., 

My Dear Sir,—You took so great an interest in the establishment of a Branch of 
your Y. M.C. A. in our camp at Brockville, that I write a line at the first opportunity 
to say that, under the good management of Messrs. Lonsdale and Little, it was a 
complete success, and the thanks of every member of the Force are due to you and 
them. Indeed, not only did the soldiery at Brockville derive benefit from the Y. M. 
C. A. Tent and its belongings, but a large number of the citizens of the place who 
visited the Camp. I cannot do better in offering you my best thanks than enclose an 
extract of brigade orders on the breaking up of the Camp. 

The presence of the Y. M. C. A. in camp has again been thoroughly appre- 
ciated. The agents of the Association have been untiring in their efforts for the 
welfare of the soldiers by the establishment ofan admirably-arranged Reading Room 
and Recreation Tent. 

With very best wishes, 
I remain, yours very truly, 


GEO. T. MAUNSELL, D.A.G, 


23 


We were much encouraged by the following letter, which shows 
that “‘ fruit is appearing after many days:” 


NortH Aucusta, Ont., JVov. 20th, 1882. 
DEAR Mr. LONSDALE, 


You have no doubt given up all hope of hearing from me, and in order that 
you may not be discouraged I write to tell you the good news. You will remember 
in the Tent drawing my attention to John v. 24, which made very little impression at 
the time, but God has used it, along with other circumstances, to let me see that 
my sins are forgiven, and that I have eternal life. Iframed that Gospel Target (an 
illustrated tract) you gave me, and placed it in my bed-room. Through the death 
ofa friend I was led to think of these things lately, and that verse John v. 24 printed 
on that tract arrested my attention, and the scales have fallen from my eyes, and 
His word has given me light. * * * * I wish I lived inthe city that I might 
secure an education so as to fit me for a minister of the Gospel ; but if God wants 
me He will remove the obstacles. Iam doing what I can, and a few of us have 
started a prayer-meeting here. Please pray for us at your meetings. 

Yours faithfully. 


‘ 


While engaged in this Camp a call came from Richmond, Que., 
from Col. Worsley, asking us to place a Tent in their Camp, but we 
were unable to arrange it on account of the short notice. The Com- 
mittee, however, see the importance of this work to be so great that 
they are taking steps to place it on amore permanent and satisfactory 
basis. 

RAILWAY BRANCH, POINT ST. CHARLES. 


We would give praise to our loving and gracious God for being 
permitted during the past year to fairly launch the work of the 
Y.M. C. A. amongst the employes of the Grand Trunk Railway 
Company at this point. It is well known to our friends how the work 
here was inaugurated, and how it was being carried on. In the 
month of July last the charge of this department was placed in the 
hands of Mr. Frank Lonsdale, late general Secretary and Founder o 
the York, England, Y. M.C. A. He reports having been cordially 
received by all to whom he has spoken, from the principals of the 
departments downwards. The Gospel and Song Service, which was 
commenced last fall, has been held regularly during the year upon 
every Lord’s Day afternoon at 3 o’clock, and evident signs of increas- 
ing interest is manifest by the attendance which has been largely 
augmented. The average attendance during the past several months 
has been 80 persons. A Bible Class has been commenced at 9.30 


24 


on Sunday a.m., for men only, and the interest already taken in it 
bespeaks the making of a good class. At present there are twenty 
names on the register of attendance, and a deep and growing interest 
is manifesting itself in the study of the Word. House-to-house visita- 
tion, tract and gospel slip distribution, and personal conversation have 
also been used as a means of reaching and becoming acquainted with 
the men and theirfamilies. The men on the track—drivers, firemen, 
brakesmen and conductors—can only be reached by this personal 
visitation, and many of them have been spoken to and interested in 
the work, who, from, their duties, cannot attend the meetings, but 
would willingly do so if they had the opportunity. The success 
already achieved is in a great measure due, under God, to the kind- 
ness and courtesy of Herbert Wallis, Esq., who has granted facili- 
ties for the extension of the work, which has greatly aided in its pro- 
secution. Mr. J. Curtis Clark, the Superintendent of Grand Trunk 
Railway Reading Room, has kindly continued to us his most able 
and valuable assistance, and Mr. Ivinson, Mr. Michael, and others 
have borne'personal testimony to good resulting from these meetings 
We must not forget to mention the most valuable services of Miss 
Fanny White, who, having presided at the organ every Sunday during 
the year, has caused the singing at our meetings to be most effective 
and attractive. Through the efforts of Mr. L., eight young men 
have been placed in the Company’s service, some of whom are 
reported to be giving every satisfaction. The work arranged now for 
the fall and winter months gives evidence of being successful. The 
dining-room attached to the Reading Room has been granted for a 
weekly meeting ; Cottage Meetings are also being held, and a 
weekly Bible Reading is held in a room attached to Forfar Street 
Presbyterian Church, the whole of which bids, fair to be a success if 
owned and blessed of God. We have at this present moment to 
rejoice in one soul having given testimony of having been brought 
into the liberty of the children of God, and of some of the 
employes taking a very active part in the work. Again, however, 
our chief source of encouragement is that so many have from time 
to time gathered together under the sound of the Gospel, and we 
trust that the seed sown may have fallen into good ground, and that 
ere long it will germinate and spring forth and bear much fruit, in 
some thirty, sixty and a hundred fold. 


25 | 
ROOMS AND LIBRARY COMMITTEE. 


Your Committee beg to report that the building has been 
thoroughly cleaned and repaired, the hall newly tinted; the Library, 
Offices and Reading Room tinted, renovated and carpeted, and, 
through the kindness of the ladies, the windows fitted with elegant 
and convenient draperies. Much attention has been paid to the heat- 
ing, lighting and ventilation of the rooms, and every effort has been 
made to add to the comfort of both visitors and members. The Read- 
ing Room tables have been well supplied with the best papers and 
periodicals. Of Canadian :—Dailies 11, Weeklies 20; Monthlies 2. 
American weeklies and semi-weeklies 22; Monthlies 10; British 
weeklies 14; Monthlies 17 ; making a total of 96 copies. The cost of 
these during the past year was $147.53, and the amount realised by 
the annual sale of papers and magazines $42.50. The well-stocked 
tables, the educational classes, and the bright, comfortable rooms have 
all tended to make the daily attendance large and increasing. The 
Assistant Secretary, Mr. Kuhring, was entrusted with the complete 
charge of the Library, and his constant over-sight has been very bene- 
ficial. During the months of September and October he devoted 
much of his time to cataloguing the books, and a printed copy can now 
be had at trifling expense by any of the members. ‘To the purchase 
of suitable books your Committee devoted much time and delibera- 
tion. Particular care has been paid in suiting the tastes of readers 
and in supplying the Library with the latest and best books in Liter- 
ature and Science. 407 books were added during the year, as follows: 
—Biography, 40, History, 66 ; Travels, 36 ; Science, 49 ; English Lan- 
guage and Standard Works in Literature, 98 ; Magazines, 99 ; and Mis- 
cellaneous Works, 19. Among the notable additions are complete sets 
of Harper’s and Scribner’s Magazines, of the English men of letters, of 
Scott’s, Dickens’, Irving’s and Kev. E. P. Roes books, of Proctors 
works in astronomy, also those of Kingston and Ballantyne which 
relate to America, and a set of books on Intemperance in relation to 
Physiology and Hygiene. At the present time there are in Library : 


Biography ...... see. STO as ow Ve oe Movs eee Renin. 
History, ‘Sacred i. ois nos stewie Ae i liayen hee he 146 

Flistory, GeOular.ccsas 0+ snip tye sane ese Pe eR eee 218 +s 
MagazineS ...cee veceee cece cevece coceteee ive aves eee ag 
POREY Ais seaheos vn a's owes Maree deci ae pikes eek 139 ** 
BOO vi wee s40* cee ene Sere ee ‘i 
TYRVOIS, i nx de ab ee cone te Re dee ee xe ceoets » 205 = 
Standard Works in n English Language and Literature. 287 “ 
Religious ...000 sceevees W dlekgmaie Wnts pa Fped wy wk 405 iS 


Reference eeeeteoeveeren eeeereeee eee eee e@eeeteeceeeeoe e 262 — 2173 


26 


Thanks are due to publishers of papers and magazines kindly 
supplied gratuitously, to Messrs. Adams, Greene and Court, for valu- 
able donations. 

BW Moat hudsy 


Chairman. 


MEMBERSHIP COMMITTEE. 


Your Committee are glad to be able to say that the Association 
during the past year has received a large increase to its membership, 
both from strangers coming to the city and from young men growing 
up in our midst. 


Your Committee regret to report that so many members have 
left the city during the year to seek their fortune in the Great North 
West, and that on this account the number of members is not materi- 
ally changed. ‘The Assistant Secretary has thoroughly canvassed the 
list, and its figures may be relied upon as correct. In union with 
the Reception Committee, we have held several Social Receptions 
during the year for the introduction of new members, all of which 
were quite successful, and eminently served the purpose for which they 
were intended. 


The following is the roll of members as it now stands: 


Pe Pas an sn le ehew wate caves oon 445 
PNG ss os sn Sa S ove see Shenae ee eae nee 225 
TABOD Ca, CFE ell hy) EP 28 
Eonar + oi she Re Si SR ORES, Ub 7k 46 
UOT SS onal yd sp tice Pe eRe ve elias) 265 

4 Ae AO AE cc ce) eae 1009 


In common with the many Christian, Educational, Benevolent 
and Charitable institutions of this city, we have to lament ‘the 
death of Joseph McKay, Esquire. who was for many years a life 
member and a good friend of this Association. 


WALTER PAUL, 
Chairman. | 


on 


ee de 


27 
REGEPTION GOMMITTEE. 


The work of this Committee is to have one member on duty 
each evening from 7.30 to 10, to welcome strangers, interest the mem- 
bers and make the building homelike and attractive. It is difficult to 
secure workers in this department owing to the indefinite character 
of the work,but your Committee have been able with few exceptions to 
have a member in charge each evening. 


The character of the work is such that we cannot speak definitely 
of results, but members are often cheered by conversations they are 
permitted to have with strangers and others. 


In addition to this your Committee have arranged and in con- 
junction with the Membership Committee carried out, four Social 
Receptions which were largely attended, the object being to interest 
new members in our general work,and also to become better acquainted 
personally with all. 


It is proposed during the winter to hold these monthly, and from 
the results obtained we look upon them as supplying a most important 
linkin our work as we are able to meet new members in a more 
social and homelike way than at our regular meetings. 


J. DUMARESQ, 


Chairman. 


VISITATION COMMITTEE. 


The work of this Committee is to invite young men to the religious 
meetings held in the building, especially the Saturday evening meet- 
ing and the Sunday afternoon Bible class. , 

With this object in view:the Committee has met every Saturday 
evening but two during the past year, and after prayer the principal 
hotels were visited and members stood at the street corners in the 
vicinity of the building, and for the past two months at the corner of 
St. Catherine and University streets. | 

Slips, on which an invitation to the meeting and a passage of Scrip- 
ture are printed, are handed to the young men passing by, and distri- 
buted to those in the reception rooms, billiard and bar rooms of the 
hotels. The average attendance has been six. 

On Sunday afternoons a somewhat similar work has been carried 
on for the past threemonths. Average attendance three. 


28 


Cards, on which a list of the Protestant churches in the city with 
their location, and an invitation to attend the Sunday meetings in our 
Rooms, are printed, are left at the principal hotels on Saturday nights 
for the commercial travellers and other guests remaining here over 
Sunday. 


During Exhibition week a member of this Committee stood at the 
door of the building every night with invitations for the special ser- 
vices which were held during that time. 


It would be impossible to report as to the results of this work. 
The results are God’s. Weare much encouraged. On one Saturday 
night we know of four who were led into the meeting through invita- 
tions received, on another occasion three. 


Another Saturday night a young man intending to go to the theatre 
received an invitation and came to our meeting instead, and we believe 
that many more have been led into the meetings during the past year, 
and that many of those who did not accept the invitation read the 
Word printed thereon, and we pray that the Holy Spirit will bless 


the seed thus sown and cause it to bring forth much fruit to the glory 
of God. 


The chairmanship of this Committee was held by Mr. S. F. Mas- 
sett until the sixth of May, when he resigned, having been called to 


labour in another part of the field, and the present Chairman 
appointed. 


The Committee is composed of the following members: S. F. 
Massett, Jas. Rea, Geo. E. Williams, Alex. Macdonald, Alex. Macfar- 
lane, W. Y. Seamen, Henry G. Hawkins, Jos. Locke, John Ohling, 
Frank Holman, Alex. Moore, F. L. Osborne, Chas. Martin, Alex. 
Player, W. T. Castle, Henry Lockett, Jas. Lambert, James Simpson, 
S. W. Pratt, and the Chairman. 


ALEX. D. LANSKAIL, 
Chairman. 


29 
VISITATION COMMITTEE, 


Since last annual report visitation has been mainly conducted by 
Mr. Louson, and in his absence in England by Mr. Frank Lonsdale, 
assisted by other members of the Association. As a rule, the fruit 
of visitation at the General Hospital are not gathered with any 
degree of certainty, yet this year there have been unwonted evidences 
that the seeds of gospel truth Jodged in the mind when the heart was 
softened by sickness and made tender by suffering have taken root 
and germinated even to eternal life. A singularly attractive young 
Highlander named Neil Beaton was brought to the Hospital last 
winter, suffering from spine disease and abscess, entailing great 
suffering. He received Jesus Christ with great simplicity, and took 
great delight in reading his Gaelic Bible. He left for his distant 
home in the Townships, and in September a letter was received from 
his father describing his protracted sufferings, and the wonderful joy 
in the Lord which sustained him under them. To the sympathetic 
neighbors who came to visit him he was full of tender entreaty,— 
though himself retiring and diffident,—to make sure of salvation, 
while his minister declared he preached a sermon to him at every visit, 
by his patient, joyful acquiescence to the will of God. His very last 
words, his Father writes, were: “ Be sure and write at once to Mon- 
treal and tell them how I thank God for ever having been taken as a 
patient to the Montreal General Hospital.” Other cases might be 
related almost as marked and blessed, but this will suffice. Visitation 
outside the Hospital has been continued, both towaid members of 
the Y. M. C. A. and others, as opportunity offered, but, for obvious 
reasons, cannot be particularized. In cases requiring it, arrangements 
were made to sit up at night with sick members, and it is hoped all 
our members will take note how gladly this is attended to whenever 
severe illness lays them aside, or they care to have visits of sympathy 
or help in time of trial. The men’s Jail has been visited frequently. 
The female Jail has also been visited, and occasional addresses given 
at the invitation of the chaplain. The Penitentiary of St. Vincent de 
Paul has also been visited, and the prisoners addressed ; and, through 
the kindness of the chaplain, it is hoped this feature of the work will 
afford in future a sphere not hitherto attempted. A very gratifying 
incident occurred in connection with Jail visitation which is full of 
encouragement. At the close of a public meeting in one of our 
churches a tall, well-dressed young man came up to the writer, 


, 


30 


and hesitatingly held out his hand. “You don’t remember me?” 
said he. ‘No, was it in the Hospital I saw you?” “No,” glanc- 
ing round, ‘it was in the Jail.” . Seeing the Vestry door open 
he was asked to enter and tell his story—which in brief was to 
the effect that he had been in a dry goods establishment and had, by 
little and little—a paper of pins, then gloves, then more important 
articles—then a Court-room, followed by the jail. “ My sentence,” said 
the young fellow, ‘had nearly expired, and I did not know really what 
was to become of me, for my relations and friends had cast me off. It 
was the crisis of my life, when you passed through the jail, and spoke 
to me such words of hope and encouragement as lifted me right up, 
and the book you gave me showed where to obtain both guidance and 
strength to amend. I went to Upper Canada and obtained a situation 
with a good man, who took me without a reference, and took an 
interest in my religious life; but at the end of six months aman who 
had been with me in jail came along, and first tempted, and then tried 
to blackmail me, threatening to peach upon me to my employer that 
he had a jail bird in his house. It was a fearful moment, but I took it to 
the Lord, and He said, tell all to your Master, and I did, thank God! 
expecting to be cast again adrift, but (and his eyes filled with manly 
tears) he only raised my salary, for the man had informed on me 
already, and, had I not spoken, I would assuredly have been turned 
off.” “ Then what are you doing in Montreal now,’ was asked ? “ Ah, 
that is another of His kindnesses—He has reconciled me to my friends, 
and I am now ona visit to them,” and again Clasping the writer’s hand, 
‘Iwas so glad when I recognized you to-night, for I knew it would en- 
courage you for to hear my story.” And then and there the two knelt 
down and thanked and praised the Lord for His wonderful love and 
grace to the children of men. Incidents might be given of a sadly differ- 
ent character, where for years the Gospel has been pressed upon the 
acceptance of convicts, both in the Jail and the Penitentiary, and mate- 
rial kindness and help offered then on obtaining their liberty, but 
apparently without beneficial result. It is therefore with thankfulness 
that the above unmistakable instance is given to show that the labour 
and sympathy is not wholly thrown away. 


JOHN LOUSON, 
Visitor. 


ol 


FINANCE COMMITTEE, 


It is with gladness of heart and gratitude to God that your 
Committee are privileged to present the following favorable report of 
the financial condition of our Association : 

Five years ago we were burdened with a debt of $23,000; the 
plan suggested for the payment of the same (see report of 1880) was 
so far successful as to reduce the amount in three years to less than 
$5,000; at the beginning of the year just closed the indebtedness 
was further lessened to $2,600, and to-day we are glad to announce 
that, by the generous response of friends to our appeal, the Associa- 
tion Building is free of debt, the general expenses have all been paid, 
and we have a small balance in hand. ‘To pay off this claim and meet 
the current expenses for the five years, it has been necessary to raise 
about $48,000. 

We find the work of the Association is rapidly growing upon us, 
and every year an increased amount of money is necessary to carry 
it on successfully. Looking upon it from a business standpoint, this 
prosperity is encouraging, and we ought not to allow the work to be 
crippled by withholding the small yearly increase of money wanted 
to enlarge its sphere of usefulness. 

We have during the year found it necessary to make some 
repairs on the building, and re-carpet it, at an expense of about $800 
A lot in the cemetery has also been purchased, at an expense of $400, 
for the burial of young men who, dying in the Hospital and other 
parts of the city, without friends, have special claims upon our Associ- 
ation for thoughtful Christian burial. In addition to this, some $600 
has been applied to the purchase of new books for the Library, to 
which reference is made in other reports. 

I'he estimate of expenses for the coming year is $5000, of which 
we receive $1300 from rentals, and the balance, $3700, is to be raised, 
as usual, by subscriptions. We desire to thank the subscribers for 
the generous aid they have furnished towards carrying on this work ; 
and, believing as we do that the money has been wisely and faithfully 
applied to the object for which it was subscribed, we do not hesitate 
to ask for a continuance of your aid, that the spiritual and temporal 
good of the many young men whom it has been our privilege to help, 
may not be lessened for want of the necessary funds. 


L. H. PACKARD, 
Chairman. 


o2 


sAontreal Doung Men's Christian Association. 


BUILDING FUND Account, Year ending November 30th, 1882. 


RECEIPTS. 
To Subscriptions, viz. : 
Estate Joseph Mackay....... Dak ses Dh toe w8 a OR Ee wb $1,000 00 
Ponvins) Morriee sca 8 U6 se he bia) ow COLE Ee ri oe 500 00 
ie ec RPC RN NE 71 OE We s.c Bi vy nee SOS ie ees « 500 00 
NI IR as ok Us winnie dene ae acaba leiet rere 250 00 
a om «leneie-nie o9 250 00 
PURGE URREUS iar is gb ie win os nv ds oes ere ‘ann 100 00 
PER AOC PAM OA sis ss nc ha nay eee bie gone uke ee u4 100 00 
PUM PAOOYS Ta ess ds a ae eves dees directs oats oes I0O 00 
PAD OAC Teak is Ae Te eS iy, as 100 00 
PERO SOD ees a5 sb a dbs Seabed ERR Sy rks 66 66 
eel IED wine ithe <iistyey abe, a Zh a CHE Sik Gh eile id wg 50° 00 
Sundry small amounts.......... Le See eee 167 25 
retomrey sat aaa 
DISBURSEMENTS. 
By Balance due Treasurer per last Statement...... 2... 2,683 88 
PMMOrest DOI. 6s baw-s deme mii npn SoU Aceh done! ay ata 554 87 2,838 75 
POINTE AN GRE ons Pas tohn urs bate Tere Sans 345 16 


JOHN S. McLACHLAN, 


Treasurer. 
Examined and found correct. 


i. ©... JONES, es 
JAMES B. FUDGER, Auditors. 


naps caserseseess 


33 


CurRENT Expenses, Year ending November 30th, 1882. 


RECEIPTS. 
To Balance from last year....e.eeeee reer ree res Tr 88 26 
‘© Subscriptions and Donations®.......... --+6+ en enore> 5,404 75 
‘© Membership Fees, of $1.00.... ceeseeee cece cceere : 528 50 
“. Lechires ane ‘Classes. o.oo es saieeh uses s $1,045 20 
Less ExpenseS....-cee ccccce vevcceccees 820 20 225 00 
“¢ Collected for Brockville Camp.....+. +e. 70 95 
© Less ExpensesS...... cecsccseccee covers TO 95 
‘“ Rents received during year.......e.ee0 oe ‘Seve es es 1,341 50 75499 75 
$7,588 o! 
DISBURSEMENTS. 
By Salaries for the year....... b (hGla inns ORES EM baa wes 2,479 50 
« Gas and Fels. + +6 «sive Treen oper ir ane: 750 92 
‘© Anniversary Expemses.... ..eseesece cece 132 75 
Less Collection and from Churches........ 125 64 41 
“Travelling Expenses... .scesesesces eos ieee npvinte 108 29 
“* Advertising ACCOUNt.... see ceceee rere ccceereccee 240 OO 
<¢ Newspapers and Periodicals.... sees eeeeceee sees ces 147 53 
“ Printing ACCOUNt..... cee rece voce cecerececes Tee 333° 25 
“ Rates and AssessmentS......06 cecces cece veveceee: 320 20 
6 Insurance Premiums........ sscccescovete sees Sees 96 19 
© Stationery ACCOUNL....0. cceceecccs cece covene bs 22 18 
‘* Repairs and Renewals......6- cess cccecceeccce ces ; 672 56 
** Postage Stamps and Cards ..... esse cece ceveee vee’ 125 15 
© Cleaning, sss svwessissevess Ad Leos Prsbien ch NEES 85 98 
“ Subscriptions to Executive Committee Ontario and 
One DE «6 ee x nin. os o'0) bin AfePan fn wiginle ® Gt skseateeeee 325 00 
«‘ Subscription International Committee..........++. ee 50 00 
‘“* Benevolent Fund..... ....5 eevee soecvces Pee ee ee 45 19 
6 Grant. to -LADrTarys.soe's ss ese eee SEN web Vebaw ok eed 679 79 
‘‘ Furniture, Carpets, etC...+ cece cccece a Tee ees SOI 53 
‘¢ Purchase money Cemetery Lot.......eseeeee hie ae hae 400 OO 
“¢ Sundry small payments......++eeeevercereres Une & 207 06 7,597 43 
“© Balance due Treasurer.... seccseees Pere ryen tre re : 9 42 
J. S. McLACHLAN, 


Treasurer. 


Examined and found correct. 


T..C. JONES, Li 
JAMES B. FUDGER, }4¢ditors. 


MONTREAL, 30th November, 1882. 


* This amount includes subscriptions of members over $1.00. 


a4 


LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS 


TO THE 


Montreal Youn Men's Ghristian Association 


For the Year ending November 30th, 1882. 


OAL OAIET . ifo%. Sei sls oh! cae c'n § 5.00 
PO OED iiGaks thks a wes 10.00 
et, PRs PE bik btn nn ces bo so 25.00 
er ek Pe COness vee wes 25.00 
PUR TS TA Whe kee oon 0% we 25.00 
PeTSON, RG ihe Sc as ayes 20.00 
miekander, (Was Geis. s..sahs 5-00 
Be Na Bos ibe ke wie Lot vena » 100.00 
a A) BAR SRP ae Pena er 2.00 
Pemmore, 1 NGC ios oe 4.00 
ES TERS aS. iy 2.00 
ORI drs aus onk eee eh), LONI 
EO a, ea ee 10.00 
Boulter, G..0] PGs oe Seeee . 5.00 
Brace 1 Locke... aaa ee’ Lea ** S00 
ENE, SR hie Cane oie cn kee 5.00 
Ce A, AA 5.00 
POG, WOE cis sana esa h awh 2.00 
ermett R A.Ge Siew toh s ff ae 
PRG SA nie p46 le me o4 be 5.00 
Ps, 22 o's sank as ke eee) 5.00 
Pei axcshd: BOA ck wees 5.00 
Brodie & Harvies i... tat 5-00 
Bra, As hein a's's ho so wim 100.00 
Pen, oimpson  Co...... ss6% 10.00 
Berane, Fh. W yn iceicns avvace 20.00 
maitercil, E. FL 4. evewen en eace a... 00 
RG Wh, oe vk sks nie 4) 5.00 
Peete, MoE ccc cae klwiivs 4.00 
Barrington G Son....ee.sss:. 5-00 
Bissett, James..... wee N enol als + cain le 
ey 1 A Nik vene ye les kenb COO 
Brodie & Jamieson..........+. 10.00 
PEROY, AIDES < yon caaens cass ki See 
Bateman, Miss...0.655000a e0e 2.00 


Prown, ARere ne isadis aa ener 3 $ 5.00 
PORE, Tite. eee ba ks ya ne 5-00 
EHR AS ie Ln aw ee een es ° 5-00 
Brown, fonathan.... .ssessees 10.00 
peeling, Fan O06) ois av se 5.00 
Budge, 1) +a dite Pl A Ae 10.00 
panntieter, Porbes'. oss oe ns 1.00 
WOH ho, Liew 40ahtaew th bak Fee 5.00 
ics Wa I ear eee oe 5.00 
Brown DG nme 8OGth1 et bs oft Ng 
fost 5 he 3, Gi Bb tary aedtae: ulated 5-00 
CA Pk bn de ke meaoan eae 5.00 
Brown, Wy Urs kewdaaeed. sens 10.00 
BEND 4 Besse WEP dhe PNGH 5-00 
PUNE FAN SORA LANT cca bee kb so 2-00 
PU, Te ei ee mt Mae hla ac nesd cages 5.00 
Cia ES akc ores mat 5:00 
Clete, JA lexyinsit .¢h.é yuh 25.00 
[LOWES NS Stee os tee, 2.00 
Campvell, Dr. Gi. We. 4s-« «sles 25.00 
CUTE, JOUR oslo s ww etellul> oie 20.00 
Crathern,G?. Caverhill:yo.7, oii 4; 25.00 
Campbell; Kenneth. .s.es0.++.. 10,00 
CORP GRMIES yc sian Wak ba yaa 119.00 
CrAte, THOS . 2 shn.ne esa hann ORE 
RNG: Dis avnh se ax dak Rien ee 3.00 
RAGROY EF a his wen the b Cae eowibie + 10.00 
RAVSIIAIS, AS sn Wine sa selleie wae’ 5.00 
Clendinneng Wis. sos xe) 's ee Te 
Camegi®, D. Phsvanke s4ca ke 40% 5.00 
Am Ne ei kek a oe 5.00 
Cassils, Stimson & Co........ 10.00 
Caropbell ) AG. Arodd sik analie ee 2.00 
AU RD iia ons oa ecb te 1.00 
Copeland G McLaren........ 5-00 


urrie Wh fF he can tlio’ 
Currie Go. McLean , 2.056 200s . 
Cooper, W, ,.ieisels bed Sete 'b weit 
Cantlie, Ewan G Co....ee.see 
Cochrane, Cassils & Co.....0. 
Canada Paper, Co... ceseee 
Crawford, J]. W.... eovseesees 
Chigg Fie! Bes eka oy OP boas 
Crane NGOe ec les. conan a whieh 
Coristine, Jas. G? CO.vcceasees 
Cavan, Earl .of .,..,.00 Giese a00 
Cleghorn, J. P 
Cole) Fins aides bite vy sak doe 
Carson, J. L. G? C0...e4 «se ee 
Cowany | ans yaneak Oe BGR. 
Craig, Bes Mclain nase ne ss wile be 
Oe ee) See eee rr ene oe 
Criddeford, Jn0O...... 2-65 e008 
Craig, W. A. s.consvcrsce cece 
Covees Ny Bao e xaos wee ears 
Coulson, R. B, G Co...eee.. 
Cla (ae Woon dads seta Was : 
Crombie. iA. Mi o.enoddaies - 
Gowan, Ry Waa pp pals bo in ai 
Childs, Geo. & Co. ..6...000% 
Cooper, Fairman & Co...... ° 


Garsley, Si ids ss) cia he eee a> 
Crapfoml,.d eases Pe ce eee oy 
Tiameon, Wii Be ox ge ne Peiaelod 
Dougall, J. G Crscecsceeeecee 
APANUIGORS Loos ys iin amnaceea nn? 
Diery' J 09%, <va% clk pea mak ae OMe 
Dutton; Ali siwsapede eee eeuine 
Dodds: Fla accwteeeree Lewis 
Douglass & McNiece........- 
Douglass, Ay ona s ec cdanacante 
Dun, Wiman & Co.......0-00- 
Dougall, J. Ri.wsceceeee vere 
Dawson Te Riso cdsaas cose ee 


Davies) Mo « sev diva’ o Have ete cem be 
Darling, W...G? C04 sais se . 
Date, (20 , snseeraadewa ds alee 


Drysdale, W...ces0 secseertse 
TOU GHNG C NV a'e's wd pine on sib aay 
Drammond, G, A... ooi0e 0k 
DBA JG. oss nsea ssiniaiin o's 0 
PUMADOR Tp awhec seve we st te 
Eevine, S.A As Downe) Hes 
ECrOWGs, Pediscose vodebhs 1070 
Evans; Wisse nee ve een < us pee 
Esplin, J. iG? Gud. so eteak wiewlai 
Evans, 1.9. 56 0.UGe'b evade ue 
Paar, Vi ci ~savan> vam nee keee 
Ewans; EDs seas as 05h oer 
Elliot, [aS .i0e «ee ewee yeeave'ss 
Faves, Ei...snece vase cwsvece 
Tivaris BlOS. vc ois sn. cnsissnnibce mists 
Eveleigh &° C0....../s00¢ich ese 
Pawan. SON ..6 6 reeewa ee aes i 
Forbes, Ra. aveeccdudhe nos eee 
Friends, $1, $10, $10, $2, 
50c, $20, $34 and ee 
Friend, pr W.G.B......... 
Fallon, Chas. ...s5ea5 st» &ee 
Forsyth, BR... «=o asain) es ah 
Fraser, Disease 
Fenwick, Rev. J. (Metis)....- . 
Fyie, Wes Bevess 
Fisk, Fi. Vises geuue Senna -e ee : 
Fair, John. ...se gees bess Ly 
Foster, Baillie & Co.....+.... 


Greene, GO...6..c0see recess 
Greenshields, Son G Co....+-. 
Gnaedinger G SOn...+seeeees 
Goodyear Rubber Co....+-.-. 
Gould, Ira & Son....e0..-ee 
Gardner, R. & Son.......-0- 
Gl BAS ww ah gabe ‘bab ee ee 
Gowdey, W ....06 eseseeceees 
Glover & Brais.....s-seeeeee 
Grindley, R. R....+. see ee 
Graftey, W. KK... ee seeee vee : 
Gross, W .ceccecessensey seeee 


5.00 


79-50 
5.00 
5.00 
5.00 
5.00 
1.00 
1.00 
5.00 
5.00 

10.00 


GSrdiam , D . sseces nance sciiess B25:00 
Pret On, Da Ec svssttadvestis a% 10.00 
PEE, Bs, asst sewed sid apis 5-00 
Rector, Gey A cceven veavu abe ol» « (OO 
PRA, Ws tec end eden PS 5.00 
Pry NEES Ts lands SRG ors 50.00 
Pen gbOm, + 1s Elise wee shes 5s 145.00 
Pret, 1560 cy cd iss sesanes dé 250.00 
Hua, Richardson & Co....... 10.00 
Hughes & Stephenson..... «++ 10,00 
Peeldett sg Fs Gi ded See eonveeett MORO 
PRenMerson Brosiesseusvsecicss 10.00 
PT 95 3.5.0.4. ewe bins oe ae 10.00 
ae Ee Ser een | 5-00 
a a eo a ev 2525 
PERN EL, G. CD i icrscsndicd £548 10.00 
pemmaersotin, W ycks sx 0000 0 Gs » 5.00 
meremcterson , eM hin as nk so onde 5-00 
Prendérs6ny Riavdi . «sd 2. .i G2 ROWwO 
Hodge, Geo....... Finest eee 5.00 
rey RE As iste ya onwhs vesee aa 
Hodgson & Co...... Seiee soa 5-00 
oot ee 5-00 
eeney, °F essai %edsiss 5.001 TODO 
Holland, R. H. & Co........ 25.00 
Pree J Riise ceeacdcssee' “S00 
ee, Fe estes shee 5-00 
aves, Be Ri svessss ah Saeed 10.00 
rae Ft Ds: cans eeaeees 5-00 
oe en ee 10.00 
ivinson,; Js: <<: ieeickeied soos 5.00 
parmeson; Ro C4295 5 ib 4 25.00 
gaques, G. EB. > Go. ss.eiiss. 50.00 
JOtnson Go. ss. vssscsas be OS 
pones, J. W.- 6 Cor seeee Sa, 5-00 
paceson: Broa 23 sae fc es sO 
goannas p95 6 ee x 15.00 
i oh ee rr a ios eer 5.00 
Fey, Fe Bie BU. 5.00 
Johnson, Russell G Co.... 5.00 
Kelley, Dr...... Eudet sigan’ 4.00 
BEM, Os sev ateaine oe bie 5.00 
meg, WardenisssswA ok 35.00 
PAGO (Weds c anicees 5.00 
Kinloch, W. G....... ‘ 5.00 
Ryle, Fsssswe Trlr rie tees 1°R00 


Kirk, Lockerby & Co........ 


DRMTORN DR cw oes inieesedss 150.00 
WEG hE AAS tap tamnels arco ieee 
Speedy, JO0. oes 6 bch eee 10.00 
POS AIGG) 6 ve shiva ne RSID 5.00 
Lewis, W. F. & Co..... + avis, RONOG 
Pe Ney enews a 5.00 
Lightbound,G......... Senin a 5.00 
RT titan Goh a kee) 2.00 
Larmonth -&? Son, 0.0.2 i sess » 20.00 
PBS, Vo 4 Bris sass vedi. 5-00 
PN, CEG sv cid nna vey 80S 5.00 
tamttin, abe Co.9 43d 4h ad 10.00 
Tippett, PO Cones voles 5100 
Earmonth Js Bo ieccae ds eoee 10.00 
At Se a eee 5.00 
doyiean, {Ty Ps asad bd 534 wen ~ 5.00 
Lyman, Sons & Co.......... 10.00 
ayia, Mite Tb orcas ieee back 5.00 
fy 0 i a 5.00 
Murphy, Jno 1 es.-serw es csese S70 
PECETICE TD sass casessnaasd vole 150.00 
Miller, R. Son & Co,........ 25.00 
Mooney, J. H..... oVurhs ren 10.00 
i) Soe co Oe ens oe 5-00 
Mills & Hutchison....... eeee 15.00 
Meldrnm & Bro.......... eos 2,00 
Miller Bros. G& Mitchell...... 5.00 
PONE Aceh ALY WGRNF2, 2.00 
MaSiwelly Fes ose icey varius 2.00 
Moseley,-E.F.G°.Co. sss l ou. 10.00 
Molson’s Bank,..........2... 50.00 
Major & Gibb,......... esee2 5,00 
nd « a ee 5-00 
Magor Bros, & Co....... sob. 1000 
Mastermani, “W vos 00'eereas net) BOS 
oe. eee ee ere Pee 1.00 
Magn, | Der ie RA sves ©6660 
PaO, Bh re sos ay oa 0445 ak 20.00 
Mudge, Ei W..06 45505 eee Be 
MoKcown: Rete eutece oe dda 10.00 
Mesaren, 4.) vidive sss cobeses TOS 
Modena, EE os rosccv eis eis 150.00 
McLachlan Bros. & Co......, 80.00 
McDougall, Logie & Co...... 20.00 


McIndoe & Vaughan.., 


McLean, J...° C0..04 00's ea 
McDougall, J, @? Co.. ..61 65 . 
Meckireion,. Wao wenscih hse s 
Mciaren, W..D..cckbas ee 
MCDIONAN, 12 bn wins scien ds 68s 
McPherson & Alexander...... 
McUiinon,. A. dcvdimsnwes Tank 
McDunnough, Woeessascereds 
WOCAAIEy chs fos vv de oon ctv de 
McFarlane, Austin & Co..... 
WAS A a vo sc enacts : 
McKedie, J.:W. & Corse. os. 
Mclean, Shaw .6° Goi) ./. 643s 
Mobowaall F aise sured. 
MICKEY BIO. 65 0 6 wane cee eG 
McWood, Geo..... ingens 
Dict minis Dice as vo CERES 
McLeod. &?. Shotten, ...44 460+ 
McKinnon, [R0,50%.4 oda ewes ; 
Nelson,.H,.A. & Sons. ...ees 
Notman & Sandham.’........ 
pC ee ee 
Northey, 2). Re -Go vadanta 
tt ae 2 a aa and bs 
RRL) PAR avs bee vec eek oe 
EME: EI Tied eek crete Cent 
Ogilvie, Jno. ce Wis OW os sess ; 
Paterion, | sis as fe yrs ssh 
PGs Sh. Ribs ve vise nue eee 
POPE Oi Bes da wees da a ees 
POP FN sa acu 3025 ae doe 
FUCKS Ey Ths a's eee rae eee 
PONCE Es Divine « crne CSON SRS 
ste A Ce re on apne 
Perry * CAG  oiie vas ve oc 
Perry Davis & Son & Lawrence 
erences 11. Ba sigansanp eens 
PO AG Bis woes os a banec 
POMNONG FS sade Ss pees Svenee ‘ 
POrter i? BaVage ss js ws eee Ks 


PAE Be cee ba we pee baa 
POWER, Ths Gist esc needs 44500 
Petes, LOG sass vis > ake Rees 
Paul, Walter «.... Meer a , 
Parks, 4. lawiwe heh Peek 
Packard, L.. H..d*'€o i. yo05. 43 


37 


$50.00 


25.00 
1.00 
10.00 
1.00 
5.00 
5.00 
3.00 
5.00 
5-00 
I.00 
10.00 
5.00 
2.00 
25.00 
5.00 
5.00 
5.00 
2.00 
25.00 
10.00 
5-00 
5.00 
1.00 
1.00 
2.00 
10.00 
5.00 
5.00 
5.00 
5.00 
5.00 
5.00 
5.00 
5.00 
10.00 
5.00 
5.00 
20.00 
12.00 


5.00 
1.00 


5-00: 


10.00 
I.00 
20.00 


Palmer, J.-& Sons deer thi. 
ae A nr eee rE: 
Paillips, ©.:S-Jis.sils.saats 
TM, DICT i eed Se 
RamsayyiAs Woeecessecces seat 
Ranisayy Ris sasivciv sade 
Rivard, Mores sautecddecaiss 
Raé, David, -jun.... ecdisvds « 
Rankin & Beattie..........0 
Ritphie,, Jno: Vises 1.3 feud Ve 
Radford, Fy Weorss otststare ated ba 
ReGiern i... 5408 . shh tibeess 


Robertson; Fins iste eterd es sole 
Reford, R: &* Co.wsaneeieG. : 
Reid oG. Was dee bededewnsn « 
Rattery; & Go.iasas wee ey 
Robertsons, Linton & Co..... 
Russel, H. & J,.ia% Meigs’. se 
Rice, WM .«o seen eae +s 
Redpath, ¥ a4 jyulabeewe on ie ds 
Ritchie, W a» .<s\ dees die wel 
Ramsay,..K, Ais. ashe as RO a, 4.6 
Robertson, 7A... gages ac as 
Ross, 
Ross, Dg: 83. pA ee as a od 
Roberteoh, 7 vas < see sc v8 
Riddell G Stephenson........ 
Ralston, P. G Bensueiees sas : 
Richa) p0hiss egwes = + 
Rost, 4 ibaticscdeatie ave 6 3% 
Smith, F.Ts 5645 gar ey ae 
Ro ae gt.) aan a a 
Sutherland, Lindsay & Co.... 
ORIEL) When ce et ora Ap bles 
SORT WV darexn eg S Sew ee vs os 
SNOW: Has Gecsinds 2 64005 50s 
S aw Bros. & Cassils...... 7 
Se, ee Lae a un ad oak oR ae 
SUMGMy WF ners ods ivan owe or 
SOMO V STIs CPOs. incase deus 
eA NT Ci as weed se vee se 
ey ee. ee a als 
eimitiers, (SF on. ks as naalen 
Mii, (hr ss 


le | re a $ 5.00 
ORT I ot puis gop paheeie 100.00 
wavage, A. G Son, ...hsiiesd- 20.00 
TO Cane ele: Os ey o> a 10.00 
BEN Ee aa arose urnyogs vin BAL GoD 5.00 
ON FIL Kiri on Sites 2 Peco ie 5.00 
PERCE, So se ehaxas i lara 5.00 
Samuel, W,.... ens oles 1.00 
POINDR CEU KA ¢o pai is 5.00 
Tees, Costigan G Wilson..... 75.00 
BRI Di hs aloes, atte engl CEO 
Looke, Bisse Panes. eaae 01 FOO 
es dawn ines 5.00 
gorranee. Ty, Ge? Coie ingen fo 25.00 
ios TG Ts ne ete ser) = KIO 
MO IR 5 ess Gio lire id tos nb 25.00 
pA Sk Ore ee © ve 1.00 
avenholme, N. W,.....%<e% . 1.00 
MITT OTICS FORE ahs vob n'o bs cisco 5:00 
pe ae a 10.00 


38 


WY MESA: TORS Gea ely ¢ $10.00 
Witson; T4D «. osc beak aye mae 5.00 
Wilkes, . Rev.. Dr..,...... oral” 2.00 
Wate, Wee Co. ociles th dh 20.00 
bh a, ee ee ON 3.00 
WAUIERRUS. D5. wiad ba hie 05 5.00 
Se et IM dca tae wie dw cutee 5.00 
BY SOE AD ans vowasoatd yduuge 5.00 
PET as Cala hod hs ve sia 2.00 
WY Gey. Tass 0). sbi Sin Wales d gos 10.00 
WVGETCR, SEAS Soe Wiebe avila x Vd 2.00 
PHS, ica aidiok tee 2 Calan 2.00 
Wightman, A.G..... ec eee 3.00 
Wilson, Paterson G Co....... 10.00 
WSIBION,, Flos oan vaeWeibh 2.00 
GES FRR shins eek «kW Gls ott 10.00 
TMT TWA is dae accntihaedels 10.00 
wet, Fiske ly: sek ines ws 5-00 
Noung, James 6° Co. . 0001.04 5.00 
Pele WW. oe? DD aacick Pied ono e OS 


We are indebted to the Alontreal Daily Witness for free advertis- 
ing of religious meetings to the amount $240, also to Messrs. Drysdale 
& Co., and D. Bentley & Co., for liberal discounts made in their 


accounts for the year 1881. 


YOUNG MEN'S 
CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION MEETINGS. 


BEGINNERS’ BIBLE CLASS, 


Sunday mornings, at 9.30 o’clock. 


EVANGELISTIC BIBLE CLASS, 


Sunday afternoons, at 3 o’clock. 


GOSPEL TEMPERANCE MEETING, 


Sunday afternoons, at 4.15 o’clock. 


EVANGELISTIC MEETING—ASSOCIATION HALL, 


Sunday evenings, at 8.30 o’clock. 


EDUCATIONAL CLASSES, 
Commercial Arithmetic—Monday and Wednesday, 7 to 8 o’clock. 
Frrench—Tuesday and Thursday, 7 to 8 o’clock. 
Mechanical Drawing—W ednesday, 8 to 9 o’clock. 
Bookkeeping—Friday, 7.30 to 8.30 o’clock. 
Phonography—F riday, 8.30 to 9.30 o’clock. 


EDUCATIONAL LECTURES, 
Each Monday and Thursday evenings, from October to April. 


PROF. FENWICK’S BIBLE CLASS, 


Tuesday evenings, at 8 o’clock. 


BOYS’ MEETING, 


Friday evenings, at 8 o’clock. 


YOUNG MEN’S MEETING, 


Saturday evenings, at 8 o’clock. 


NOON DAY PRAYER MEETING, 


12.15 to I o’clock,. 


— 


RAILWAY BRANCH—Point St. CHARLEs. 
BIBLE CLASS, 


Sunday mornings, at 9.30 o’clock. 


GOSPEL AND SONG SERVICE, 


Sunday afternoons, at 3 o’clock, 


$1.00 A YEAR 


ENTITLES YOUNG MEN TO ACTIVE OR ASSOCIATE 
MEMBERSHIP 


IN THE 


Young Men’s Christian Association 
OF MONTREAL, 


WITH THE FOLLOWING PRIVILEGES : 


CHEERFUL PARLORS AND READING ROOM, 
WELL SUPPLIED WITH BEST CURRENT 
Magazines and Newspapers. 
MONTHLY SOCIAL RECEPTIONS, 
Social Religious Meetings. 


For Bible Study and Christian Work. 


PMP LOM EAN CAEN OY, 


Where Situations are Secured if Possible. 


YOUNG MEN IN TROUBLE OR WANTING ADVICE 
are cordially invited to call on the SECRETARY, at the 
Office in the Association Building, or 


IF SICK TO NOTIFY HIM BY LETTER. 


Members are requested to ask others to become members of Y. M. C. A. 
REPORT NAMES FOR MEMBERSHIP. 


