EIGHTH 


| Poung Mews Christi 


AND 


CITY MISSION, 


PRESENTED AT THE ANNUAL MEETING OF THE MEMBERS, HELD 
NOVEMBER 17ru, 1859, 


xe Please Read and Circulate. 2% 


Donations in aid of the Mission are respectfully solicited, and may be 
sent to the Treasurer, Mr. P. W. Woop, 177 Notre Dame Street, or to any 
Member of the Committee. 


a tee ee RB ca RS 


Montreal: 
PUBLISHED AT THE ROOMS OF THE ASSOCIATION, NO. 90 M'GILL STREET. 


‘ 


December, 1859. 


You ad persc Firom the country, are invited to visit the 
Rooms Betation, No. 90 McGill Street. They will be 
open ever Weel F aap: from 5 to 10 o’clock, P.M. A Library, 
Garcia: © works on Theology, Missions, Biography, History, Tra- 
vels, and general Literature, is open to all who pay One Dollar 
per annum. 


The Weekly Meeting of the Association is held on ‘Tuesday 
evening, at 8 o’clock. 


The Committee meet on the second Monday of each month. 


PRESIDENT. 
Mr. ALEXANDER MILLOY. 


VICE-PRESIDENTS. 


Mr. F. E. GraFrron, Mr. D. Wark, 
“ Gro. WILKES, “« §. B. Scort, 
Mr. Peter W. Woop, - - - -  - reasurer. 
« Jamus BAYLIS, _—- -~ «= = Cor. Secretary. 
“« J. G. Bayuis, ee ee eee ‘f 
GENERAL COMMITTEE. 
Mr. Ricnarp Hatt, Mr. James Ross, 
« §. SrTe, “ Hos. LEEMING, 
OG. Daye, “ Gro. CRUIKSHANK, 
“ Josmpn SAvaeer, “¢ W. R. Hisparp, 
“¢ ~Jamnes Howipay, ‘ Joun Murpuy, 
“ G. 8S. Bross, ¢ Jas. MARSH. 


STANDING COMMITTEES. 
Mission.—Mr. Peter W. Wood, Chairman. S. B. Scott, Geo. 
Cruikshank, D. Wark, Richard Hall. 
Bible-Class—F. E. Grafton, James Ross, John Murphy. 
Tecture.—Geo. S. Brush, Geo. Wilkes, Jos. Savage. 
Finance.—W. R. Hibbard, Thos. Leeming, Jas. Holiday. 
Room and Library.—James Baylis, G. Davis, Stephen Kyte. 


MEMBERSHIP. 
Mr. James Houmpay, Chairman. 
St. Helen Street Baptist Church, - =~  « Griffith Davis. 
St. James Street, Baptist “ - = = = Wm. Leeming. 
Congregational Pio 5 oe, a re: 
Wesleyan, Great St. James Street, - - - Richard Hall. 

“3 Grifintown, - - -  -  - Jd, Wilson. 

" New Connexion ~ foe jeg) ey Rebt. Irwin. 
American Presbyterian Church, - - - Geo. W. Reed. 
United Presbyterian, - Be tag - - - James Knox. 
Cote Street Free Church, - - «= J. H. Roper. 
St. Gabriel Street Free“ - - - - + Geo. Cruikshank. 
St. Stephen’s, Episcopal, - - - = Stephen Kyte. 


St. George’s, sy . - - - - Geo. Wilkes. 


EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT. 


—PBRBA2DOO— wor? 


Tuis Association now completes the Kighth year of its existence.— 
Another years’ history of its members lives, of their acts and thoughts, 
their works done, and duties neglected, is on record for the judg- 


ment day. How devoutly humble every heart should be, as the long 


suffering, and goodness, and mercy of God, are brought to mind in 
these annual reviews. In the sight of Him, whose all-seeing eye 
searches into the hidden recesses of the heart, how deeply conscious 
must we be of unfaithfulness to Him and of neglect in His service. 

The history of what has been done by the members of the Associa- 
tion, (apart from the City Mission work, in which comparatively few 
besides the Committee take an active part,) may be stated in few 
words. | 

The experience of other institutions in this city manifests the diffi- 
culty of maintaining efficiently any plan for the mutual mmprovement 
of young men. ‘This Association is no exception to this rule-— 
Something has been done to attain the objects for which it was 
formed, but it has been done by a small minority of the members, and 
by its connection with the City Mission. But it must be regretted, 
that so very few have taken that part in its efforts, which their own 
interests, the interests of the Association, and also of the city, de- 
mand. 3 


LECTURES. 


The Course of Lectures delivered last Winter, was one of the best, 
and financially the most successful, we have had. 


The following are the names of the gentlemen who kindly acceded 
to the invitation to lecture before the Association :— 


1858. 
Nov, 16.~—Rev. J. SuHort, D.D., Rector of Port Hope. Subject, 
“* Popular Fallacies.” 
‘ 30.—Rev. D. Marsu, Quebec. Subject, “ The Awakening 
of Europe after the night of the Middle Ages.” 


6 


Dec. 14.—Rev. R. A. Fyre, D.D., Toronto, C.W. Subject, | 


“ Modern Spiritualism.” 
1859. 
Jan. 4.—Proressor Kineston, Victoria College. Subject, 
‘¢Plurality of Worlds.” 
“ 20,—Rev. Joun Jenkins, Philadelphia. Subject, “India.” 


Feb. 8.—Principat Dawson, McGill College. Subject, “ Nature 
as represented in the Bible.” 


“ 94,—Rev. Dr. Stinson. Subject, “The Influence of Mahom- 
medanism on the Northern States of Africa.” 


March 8.— Rev. M. Y. Starx, Dundas, C. W. Subject, 
“Hugh Miller.” 


ROOMS. 


During the past year these have been well occupied. 


Besides furnishing an. office for the Missionaries, they have been of 
great value to seamen and others who have made them a place of 
resort, where they have been supplied with useful books and periodi- 
cals to read, and materials for correspondence with their friends, an 
advantage of which many thankfully availed themselves. 


The Military were also invited to avail themselves of these advan- 
tages, but the use made of them by them wasinconsiderable. Before the 
departure of the 17th Regt., a sergeant called to return thanks on 
their behalf, and also for the interest taken in their religious welfare 
by one of the Missionaries. 


Last winter, gratuitous instruction was given in them to young 
men, whose circumstances prevented them from seeking it elsewhere. 


BIBLE CLASS. 


This was resumed last winter, the time of meeting being changed 
to the morning, it did not prove successful, and was allowed to drop. 


PRAYER-MEETINGS. 


The daily morning Prayer-Meeting from 20 minutes past 8 to 5 - 
minutes before 9 o’clock which was commenced on the 10th of March, 
1858, bas been continued to the present time. ‘The attendance is small, 


| 
| 


7 


but the meeting is highly prized by the few who continue to sustain it. 
Last July, on the return of delegates from the Troy Convention of 
Young Men’s Christian Associations, a Sabbath afternoon Prayer- 
meeting was commenced, which rapidly increased in numbers and 
and interest. ‘The rooms have lately been uncomfortably crowded. 
The Tuesday evening Prayer-meeting has been resumed, but the 
attendance is small. 


THE CONVENTION AT TROY. 


The Convention of Young Men’s Christian Associations held at 
Troy, in July, was the largest that has been held. ‘T'wo delegates 
represented this Association as Corresponding Members. 'The topics 
discussed were so interesting, and the essays read so valuable, the 
whole presenting so many important suggestions respecting the working 
of Associations, and so well calculated to quicken and strengthen the 
interest of members, that it is hoped every member of this Association 
will obtain and carefully peruse the remarkably cheap Report of its 
proceedings. 
THE YOUNG MEN’S “ CHRISTIAN JOURNAL.” 


A Monthly Magazine of 32 pages, published by the Confederation, 
at the mere nominal subscription of 50 cents per annum—is worth five 
times that amount. Members of our Associations know too little of 
Associational work. The Journad will be found not only interesting 
for the information it contains, but valuable asa means for keeping 
alive an interest in our work. 

At the present time there are on this continent about 200 Young 
Men’s Christian Associations, the oldest of which is the Montreal 
Association. The objects of these Associations are, “the 7e/7- 
gious and mental improvement of their members, especially in con- 
nection with the study of the Scriptures—the union of young men, of 
various Churches in this and other plans of usefulness—and the pro- 
viding of means by which young men, coming as strangers into the 
city, may be brought under religious influences.” These objects 
have been constantly kept in view by this Association, and the oply 
thing which prevents it being much more efficient is the neglect of 
personal duty on the part of the members. 


MISCELLANEOUS. 


During the year reports have been received from a number of 
Associations, and which are to be found on the table in the Rooms. 


ee ee 
in 


~~ 
Silene 
Sap cae 


Seat nero 


a aianbe ne 


al din et ae iy | 
Sate es 
~ 


CONSE ire vot (ORE SIN 


8 


Several inquiries have also been received and answered, on matters 
connected with Associational work, or relative to the City Mission. 


~T'wo Associations—at Pittsburg and Troy—have engaged in the City 


Mission work. In one instance an inquiry was made respecting a 
young man who had resided in this city for a short time, and then 
left, and who was a source of anxiety toa pious mother. Inquiries 
were made, and the desired information obtained and transmitted ; 
it is hoped also, that the correspondence will be useful to the young 
man himself. 


Last winter, the Association renewed its protest against the na- 
tional desecration of the Lord’s Day, by petitioning Parliament to 
enact a law for closing the Post Office, and St. Lawrence Canals on 
the Sabbath. 


CITY MISSION. 


This important agency for extending religious knowledge and Chris- 
tian influence throughout the community has received a large share of 
attention. The best means for promoting its efficiency and extending its 
influence, have been carefully considered. This branch of our enterprise 
brings the Association into contact with numbers of young men, many of . 
whom have been greatly benefitted. The Christian members of the 
Association, find in the mission prayer-meetings, a sphere for Christian 
activity, and a training for future usefulness. 


Your Committee cannot report the success they desire, neverthe- 
less, they gratefully acknowledge the large amount of blessing vouch- 
safed by the Lord, to the labors of your missionaries. A careful peru- 
sal of their journals, show the great importance and usefulness of this 
mission. ‘The message of salvation has been carried from house to 
house. The missionaries have gone from bed to bed in the Hospital, 
and from ward to ward in the jail. The attention of seamen and boat- 
men, most of whom are young men, has been directed to the subject 
of personal religion. Efforts have been made to restrain them from 
vice, and to surround them with moral and Christian influences ; adults 
have been induced to attend public worship, and children taken to the 
Sabbath*School,; cases of pressing want and great suffering have been 
relieved ; the drunkard has become sober, and his home made peaceful 
and happy; the young man coming a stranger amongst us has been 
counselled and helped ; young female immigrants have been taken from 


9 


the ship to the home of some Christian family, and thus very probably, 
saved from the sad fate and the prison home of many of their com- 
panion voyagers. 


Victims of a fearful social evil have been induced to seek re- 
fuge in a reformatory, or, as in one instance, to return to her parents, 
to whom she had been lost for several years; the sick beds of both 
aged and young have been cheered by the visits of the missionaries, 
frequently the only Christian visitors there, and many a dying soul has 
been urged to flee to the only refuge for sinful men, some of whom 
gave the hope that they had “ found Jesus.” 


But even had we no such results to refer to, it would be wrong to 
suppose the mission to be of no use. The constant presentation of 
Christian truth and counsel, in humble dependence upon the Divine 
blessing, must effect some good: whilst we point out some that has 
been done, no man can tell what evil has been prevented, through the 
agency of this mission. Certain it is, that in scattering the good seed 
of the Word, we have the Divine promise, “ It shall not return unto me 
void, but it shall accomplish that which I please, and it shall prosper 2 
the thing whereunto I sent it ;? and further, in laboring for the Lord, 
we have the assurance “your labor shall not be in vain.” As to 
what has been done, let the reports of the missionaries and the sum~- 
mary of missionary work bear witness. 


At the close of 1858, Mr. Musgrove ceased his connection with this 
Association ; andin March last the Tract and Book Society of this city 
communicated to your committee its wish to transfer its missionary, 
Mr. Mitchell, to this Association. After prayerful consideration the 
proposal was acceded to, and on the first of May, he commenced his 
labors as one of your missionaries, the Tract Society engaging to pay 
one half of his salary for one year. 


MISSION SCHOOLS. 


The Mission School in Mountain Street, under the superin- 
tendance of Mr. A. Milloy, has continued in operation throughout 
the year. The number of scholars is 50, average attendance 30. 
There are 5 teachers, who are punctual in attendance and faithful in 
their self-denying labors. Owing to the population frequently chang- 
ing, a larger number of children are receiving benefit than the atten- 
dance would indicate. ‘The School is indebted to its Superintendent 


for a new library of one hundred volumes. 
. | 


10 


A second School has recently been opened in Griffintown, which pro- 
mises to be useful to a number of children who attend no Sabbath 
School. An interesting feature in connection with this School, is the 
formation of an adult class, which already numbers ten or twelve 
members. Mission Schools might be multiplied to a great extent, and 
the Christian Church should not rest satisfied until every child need- 
ing, and willing. to receive instruction is under training in Sabbath 
Schools. 


Mr. Massey’s efforts are directed mainly to seamen, young 
men, a few public Institutions, and the poor of Grifintown. In con- 
nection with his labors among the latter, a number of Christian women 
have formed an auxiliary to the mission, and are holding prayer meet- 
ings, on week day afternoons, chiefly among mothers who have few 
opportunities to attend public worship. Such meetings might be 
multiplied to a great extent. 


Mr. Mitchell visits several public institutions : the dwellings of the 
poor in part of St. Joseph, St. Antoine and St. Lawrence Wards, and 
distributes ‘Tracts on the Steamboats and at the Hotels. 


The missionaries are constantly meeting with cases of great suffer- 
ing, which demand immediate relief. Donations of money, cast-off 


clothing, and any other suitable gifts, will be applied as directed. Mr. 
Massey last year gave away $135.47, toward which he received 


$131.94. Mr. Mitchell gave away $11.65, and only received $4. 


MISSIONARY SUMMARY FROM NOV. 1, 1858, TO NOV. 1, 1859. 


Total number of Tracts and Religious Papers distributed, in va- 


TOUS LANGUAGES. 66s. CTS Ce che « Ue bits oN es slain hW Me 43,829 
Copies of the Scriptures Distributed..... ak Gelbks aiavate aces vines acing ee | 
Books lent in Jail and to the Poor s.assie.csccccvcrcccacsccces 72 
Visits to Families and to the Sick......sseeseee reece eeeees asics, 3,200 
Visits to Jail, Hospital and other Institutions..............+ss++0+ 236 

ite Hotels tor Tract, GistliDMUOns .o.565 5.65 p 6 0s o's 82 eh, comers 227 

“« to Vessels and Boats.......ccsscssees REcA Whe pu beeaaneeeG 938 
Bethel Services and Meetings among the Poor............eeee ee 200 
Aggregate attendance.... .....ceeeeeeeencees ods We Sa -over 4000 
Visits to Schools..... Ho ey Ah ee weedeat 38 
Children sent to Sabbath Schools..... Ge i alin Cene te dake doom 30 
Visits to Barracks (during SUMMET).......scsseessereeereecees 18 
Persons induced to sign the Pledge.......sc0.seeeceees sates 18 


Situations obtained.......0++- Sad atee wer a ee ee ahs he TRA SEER 12 


11 


Young men aided... ..ssseeesseeeeeeres Sowses saben: bee wee de 42 
Number of cases where Relief was given........ Ny OO eg SPE 262 


[ Some of these families were relieved from the National Benevolent Societies, 
many of them furnished with cast-off clothes, and others with fuel and provisions, 
according to their necessities. ] 


Amount given to Poor....... Bivins oh oes SP UOTE VEE . & $147.12 
Amount received for Poor... 1... scene seerteeerccaces 135.94 


Thanks are tendered to benevolent individuals for donations of 
money, clothing, fuel &c.; for the poor, toa lady who generously con- 
tinues to defray the rent of a room in Griffintown for Mission purposes; 
to several gentlemen for kindly granting the use of rooms near the 
wharf for Bethel purposes; to the captains of steamers and ships for 
allowing Bethel Services to be held; to Mr. A. Adams and the 
Canada Sunday School Union for donations of books for the Mission 
Schools; to the Bible and Tract Societies for grants of Bibles and 
Tracts; and to Mr. Drummond, of Stirling, Scotland, for grants of 
Tracts. 

No one can read the missionaries journals without being pained at 
the extent and growth of two fearful vices. The first, that social 
evil from which woman suffers the most and is pitied the least. The 
mere money cost of that crime to this city must be enormous. But 
the money cost is the least. When virtue and character and body and 
soul are sacrificed to this vice, and its polluting influence, is imperil- 
ing youth of both sexes, we earnestly entreat pastors and Christian 
men of experience to devise some plan for abating the evil. 


The rapid increase and extent of intemperance is also greatly to be 
deplored. This evil stands in the way of every benevolent and 
Christian effort. When boys and girls are picked up in our streets, 
when Christian professors are dishonoring religion by intemperance, 
when scores of homes are made little hells upon earth through this 
vice, is it not time for every Christian to set his face against both the 
use and the sale of intoxicating drinks ? 


City mission work shows that human nature, without the influence 
of Christianity, is constantly tending downwards. Gross ignorance 
and practical heathenism are to be found under the very shadow of 
our church edifices. Numbers of persons are to be found, once at- 
tendants at public worship, who are now living, apparently, without a 
thought of God, orofahereafter. Inthe carelessness and indifference 
of immortal beings around us, to their soul’s best interests, we find a 


12 


reason for city missions. ‘The streets and lanes of the city must be 
visited to compel sinners to come to the Gospel feast. Because people 
are careless, they must not be left to perish. The law of self-preser- 
vation too, demands that the ungodly and depraved should be evan- 
gelised. The neighborhoods in this city where vice and crime 
thrive, will, unless enlightened and purified by Christian truth, become 
the centres of a moral malaria, spreading desolation and death around. 


This mission effort ought to be sustained, and it can, and will be.— 
Catholic in character, it seeks only to direct those whom it aims to in- 
fluence, to “ Jesus Christ and him crucified.”” [It is an auxiliary to 
every Christian church. The mission committee must represent at 
least five denominations, whilst the character of the Association forbid 
everything like sectarianism. We are persuaded that the Christians 
of this city will not permit this mission to languish. The wants of the 
spiritually destitute must and will be supplied. Christian solicitude for 
the moral and religious welfare of boatmen and seamen, must be kept 
alive. The visitation of our jail, to rescue, if possible, some souls as 
brands from the burning must be continued. And ali the means must 
be employed which wisdom and experience suggest to carry out the 
Redeemer’s command, “ go into the streets and lanes of the city, and 
bring in the poor, the maimed, and the halt, and the blind; * * * 
that my house may be filled.” 


FUNDS. 


We rejoice to be able this year to report a balance of One Hun- 
dred Dollars in hand, the contributions toward the Mission during the 
past year having exceeded by $200 the income of the previous year. 
This we take to be a proof that the churches are becoming more alive 
to the importance of the City Mission work. We trust that the mea- 
sure of success, which has, by the blessing of God, attended the ef- 
forts in the past, will stimulate to yet greater liberality, so that we 
may be able to increase the number of missionaries, until every cor- 
ner of the city is the subject of missionary care. Let it be remem- 
bered that one-half of the city is at present entirely neglected in this 
respect, and much of the remainder is visited only occasionally. We 
thank God for the past, but let it stimulate to increased effort in the 
future. 


The following extracts from the missionaries’ journals will be read with 


13 


interest, as illustrating the great need of a City Mission, the encouragements 
and also the difficulties and discouragements they continually meet with. 


A SABBATH AMONG THE SEAMEN. 


Visited all the vessels in port—14 in number—to converse with the sailors 
before they left the ships; gave them tracts and invited them to the Bethel 
gervices. 

10} A.M.—Preached on board a Steamer, the deck being crowded by an 
attentive audience. The 2nd officer said there were 150 persons present, be- 
gides others standing on the wharf within hearing distance. The singing was 
led by an officer of the ship. The Captain expressed his gratification 
at seeing such a service on his vessel, and at its being attended by so large a 
number of persons. 


” P.M.—Held a service in the Bethel room. There were about 30 sailors 
present, and a few other persons. At the close of the service we held a short 
prayer-meeting. Two of the sailors engaged in prayer. 


AN INFIDEL SAILOR. 


Had an interesting conversation in the forecastle of the F—— with a 
sailor who said he was once forced to attend church regularly for 3 years, 
but had never been in one since. He had been at our rooms, but could find 
nothing but religious papers and books. He said he only read such books 
as Paine and Voltaire. He had noticed that those Captains who pro- 
fessed to be religious on shore were the greatest tyrants at sea. I told him 
to be as impartial when judging of religion as he was in other things, to 
learn to distinguish between good coin and counterfeit, and contrasted the 
religion of Jesus Ohrist with the principles of Paine and Voltaire, shewing the 
advantages of the former over the latter in this life, and in death, 


A PIOUS SAILOR 


Told me that he was overjoyed yesterday when he heard the subject of dis- 
course announced, ashe had been speaking to one of the hands in the morning 


on the same subject—the love of Christ as manifested to great sinners in His 
dying moments. He said it was a blessed time to him, and hoped the meet- 


ing would do good to the seamen. 


SABBATH DESECRATION. 

Distributed tracts among the boatmen on the canal, accompanied by Mr. R. 
We had many opportunities for religious conversation. Some of them com- 
plained greatly about being forced to work on the Sabbath, washing and 
scrubbing, and preparing for Monday morning. 


A MISSION MBETING. 


Sabbath Evening.—Held a meeting in Mission School Room. A stormy 
night, but about 40 were present, nearly allfrom the poorer classes who do 
not attend any church. About 10 of them have lately signed the pledge, and 
for the present at least, are in a hopeful way of being reclaimed. They were 


id 


clean and tidy, and gave marked evidence of the advantages of sobriety, even 
fora short time. One young man and his wife remained after the meeting to 
Sign the pledge. He had evidently been drinking recently; his hand 
trembled so much that although able to write, he asked me to write his name 
and then made his mark. 


ANOTHER MEETING. 


From 80 to 100 present, consisting of the poor, idle, and intempe- 
rate, with 10 or 12 who have recently signed the pledge, some of whom are in 
& very hopeful state. 


Many of these persons confess that they. had not attended a place of wor- 
ship for years, until induced to attend the Mission Meeting. They listened to an 
address from Rey. Dr. T. with great attention. May the Gospel which was 
offered to them be indeed the power of God to their salvation. 


CLOTHED AND IN HIS RIGHT MIND, 


H—— having kept the pledge for several weeks, and regularly attended our 
meetings, was to-day furnished with an entire suit of second-hand clothes, 
which made him look quite another man. He was very thankful. 


A BORROWED COAT, 


G—— attended the Mission Meeting this evening. He said he was sorry 
he could not attend the adult class in Mission School, as the man who lent 
him a coat was out at that time and had it on. 


THE HOSPITAL. 


Several weeks ago Dr—— called my attention to a young woman in the 
Montreal General Hospital, who was evidently a very superior person. She has 
dropped quietly into the grave among strangers, with few to sympathize with 
her, save the missionaries, and Him who sticketh closer than a brother. 


A HOPEFUL DEATH. 


A young man who has attended the adult Bible Class in the Mission School, 
died to-day. He had manifested much interest in the class. During his 
illness, he appeared to have a clear view of the plan of salvation through the 
Lord Jesus Christ, and expressed his entire confidence in Him as his Saviour. 


A VISIT TO THE JAIL. 


Spent the forenoon at the Jail. Visited in nine wards and the prison Hospital. 
Conversed with the inmates, and distributed about 200 tracts and some 
religious newspapers received from friends for the purpose ; they appeared 
very desirous to obtain them. One young woman remarked she was afraid I 
was not coming to-day. The prison arrangements-are sadly defective, it be- — 
ing very difficult, if not impossible, to Separate the hardened and abandoned 
from new comers who desire to forsake their evil ways. x 


HOUSES OF ILL FAME. 
Returning from the Jail visited seven poor families in Quebec Suburbs; found 


15 


much spiritual destitution in this part of the city notwithstanding the pre- _ 
gence of four or five Protestant places of worship. 


An ex-policeman informed me that he knew of at least 45 houses of ill-fame 
between St. Denis Street and the Jail. An inmate of one of them told me 
that great numbers of young men frequent them, and particularly the one she 
was in. The keeper calls herselfa Protestant. Two daughters pay her $12 
per week each for their board. Ten or twelve were arrested by the police 
recently in one of these houses, and have been committed to prison. It 
was supposed that their fines would be paid for them immediately. 


The Quebec Suburbs, in a City Mission view, is entirely unoccupied. 
There are a great number of Protestant families who are being lost for want 
of looking after. 


INTEMPERANOK AND ITS CONSEQUENCES. 


Visited a house occupied by four families, the men and women all drunkards, 
and living ina state of wretchedness and degradation beyond description. 
One of the families—a man and wife and two small children were formerly in 
comfortable circumstances, but I had lost sight of them forsometime. I found 
them in a miserable garret, the lower part of the house being as filthy as @ 
pigstye. Reached them by climbing a ladder and creeping through a hole 
in the floor. The youngest child was lying dead on a board, the whole 
scene presenting as much misery and degradation as sin and drink could pro- 
duce. f * id ’ The man has since signed the pledge. The 
other three families were almost as wretched. Some of them were smoking 
and drinking when I called. I was gladto notice some sense of shame at 
being caught in the act; read a portion of Scripture to and prayed 
with them, and endeavored very plainly to show them the evil of their way of 
‘living. 


Visited about a dozen families in Griffintown, some of them of the most 
wretched and depraved class. One whole family of six or seven were in bed, 
saying it was no use getting up to starve, as they had neither food nor fuel. 
All this has been brought onby drink. Induced several of them to sign the 
pledge. A lady has promised to send two of the eldest boys to service in the 
country, hoping to save them from the ruin which appears inevitable if they 
remain at home. 


A young man, who has brought untold suffering upon his young wife and 
little ones, and was separated from them for a time, has signed the pledge, is 
now sober, and living with his family, and his home presents an air of comfort, 
which, I presume, it hardly ever did before. He is now attending our 
meetings, and is an attentive listener of the readings of God’s Word, which 
is able to make him wise unto Salvation. I have given him a Bible and have 
furnished him with reading matter for himself and family. I think his case 
a hopeful one, and I shall not cease to pray until I see him walking in the 
fear of God and tne comfort of the Holy Ghost. 


There are three other cases of young men, who may be ranked among the 


16 


intelligent and educated classes, but who had gone far astray through evil 
company and strong drink, who have been rescued from the error of their 
ways through my instrumentality. From two of them I have received letters 


acknowledging their indebtedness, and thanking me for my efforts on their 
behalf. 


Another case is that of a mother, who, with her husband, had been given 
much to habits of intemperance for several years to my knowledge. Although 
he is constantly getting high wages they have been always in deep poverty 
and dirt, and their children brought up in ignorance and rags. This mother 
has signed the pledge and two of her children are now attending our Mission 
Sabbath School. 


_ SRE SS. EN 


EXTRACTS FROM MR. MASSEY’S REPORT TO THE COMMITTEE. 


A person of gentlemanly bearing called at the rooms this morning to con- 
verse with me. He had arrived from England about three months previously, 
but could get nothing todo. He said he did not taste liquor for five weeks after 
his arrival, but being almost in despair, he was induced to take a glass, and 
had gone on drinking, until now he felt himself almost irretrievably lost. He 
showed me a letter he had just received from an affectionate wife who is still 
in England ; it was beautifully written. He signed the pledge, apparently 
with an earnest desire to keep it, and promised to call again; wishes me to 
procure a situation for him if possible. 


My visits to the City Institutions, have been, on the whole, more encourag- 
ing than in any former year, more especially the Jail, in this place and 
the Magdalene Asylum, we have had many pleasing indications that the 
inmates are not “ past feeling.” In the Jail, our papers and books gene- 
rally have been received with thankfulness, and I believe, read with some 
attention, and my remarks and readings have often been listened to with 
deep interest. The prisoners have often assured me that they look forward 
to my visiting days with pleasure. Some of them preserve their tracts and 
papers until the expiration of the term of their imprisonment, and take them 
home to their friends. 


Nearly all the prisoners acknowledge that drink, directly or indirectly 
was the cause of their imprisonment and ruin. 


BOMICILIARY VISITATION. 


In visiting, we generally find the people civil, with occasional exceptions. 
Many appear willing to hear the Word, and from the respectful man- 
ner in which they treat the missionary and listen to his remarks, one is 
tempted to regard them as Christians. But, alas! they give the Word little 
or no practical attention. Of late, there does appear to be more serious 
thoughtfulness about the things of eternity: Our meetings for prayer, are 
being well attended, many of them having been of the most solemn character. 


i7 


During the year, the meetings held in my own district, have been attended by 
upwards of 3,000 persons. 


A Ladies’ Auxiliary to the Mission has been formed. Its object is to assist 
in visiting and relieving the poor during the winter season, and to promote 
their spiritual welfare, by holding meetings for reading the Scriptures and 
prayer, in their own houses on week-day afternoons, with special reference 
to the mothers of small children, who cannot attend public worship. This 
Auxiliary is already at work, and is doing good. A seriesof short practical 
Lectures are also being delivered to the working classes in Griffintown, by 
five City Ministers and myself. 


THE POOR IN WINTER. 


Upwards of two hundred persons and families were relieved during last 
winter. They were furnished with clothes, provisions and fuel, according to 
their necessities ; and many were saved from almost the verge of starvation. 
Many friendless strangers, widows, and fatherless children were warmed, 
clothed and fed, through the generosity of Christian friends, many of whom 
being unknown to us, who according to the Scriptures, did not allow their left 
hand to know what their right hand did. The Lord will reward them, for 
he that giveth to the poor, lendeth to the Lord. Nearly all the cases of dis- 
tress were investigated before relief was given 


YOUNG MEN. 


Young men have received a fair share of attention ; especially those com- 
ing as Strangers to the city. Some have brought introductory letters address- 
ed tome; others had been recommended to call upon me, requesting me to 
interest myself in their behalf. They have been directed to suitable boarding 
houses, advised, aided with funds in several cases, and situations obtained for 
others, who are now doing well. One young man having met with an accident 
after his arrival in this country, assisted by a brother missionary, we took 
out a passage for him in one of the steamers, paid his fare, and sent him home 
to his friends in England. A letter has been received from him, expressing 
his thankfulness for our kindness on his behalf. To all young men, I have 
endeavoured to do good, but have not been able to devote the time to them 
which their importance, as a class, seems to demand. 


SEAMEN. 


During the shipping season, special attention was given to seamen. God 
has put this important class of the community in our hands. Bethel services 
have been held on Lord’s Day, morning and evening, either on the deck of 
some vessel or in a Warehouse on the Wharf. Many of these services have 
been of the most solemn and delightful character. I have not met with the 
slightest interruption at any service during the whole season. They listen 
with great attention, and appear to enjoy the services. Yet, alas! but few 
of them are pious. There are, however, a few prayerful men among them ; 
may the Lord hasten the time when the abundance of the sea shall be convert- 
edto Him. Either a Bethel building or a floating Bethel, is a felt necessity. 
The want of one greatly hinders our usefulness. 

C 


15 


TEMPERANOE EFFORTS. 


The advancement of the Temperance cause I have ever kept in view. Seve- 
ral who once occupied respectable positions in society, but had fallen through 
Strong drink, have been reclaimed,and are now sober and industrious, and 
regularly attending the House of God. © 

Several young men have been induced to sign the pledge, on their arrival 
as strangers in the city, one of whom is now a popular and useful lecturer in 
Western Canada, and through his instrumentality upwards of 300 persons 
have signed the pledge. 


A A a 


EXTRACTS FROM MR. MITCHELL’S REPORT TO THE COMMITTEE. 


TRACT DISTRIBUTION. 


This has been carried on through every part of the City Mission work, es- 
pecially in the Hotels, Steamboats, Military Barracks and General Hospital. 
They have been offered to all ranks and classes of people, many of whom re- 
ceived and read them, and in this way the Gospel has been set before many 
whom otherwise we could have had no access to. 


THE HOTELS 


Have been regularly visited every Lord’s Day morning, and tracts put into 
the hands of all accessible travellers and boarders ; interesting conversation 
have sometimes been had with them, and direction given to the various 
places of worship. I have often seen the newspaper laid down and the tract 
taken up, and many who otherwise would have idly spent the Sabbath loiter- 
ing in the Hotels, reading the Newspapers, smoking cigars, or worse still, 
drinking, have been stirred up to attend the house of God. 


THE MONTREAL GENERAL HOSPITAL 


Has also been regularly visited weekly, and sometimes oftener, when there 
were special cases. The patients have been read to and prayed with, and in- 
dividually pointed to the Lamb of God, who taketh away the sins of the world. 
This is a very important part of our Missionary field, where we have met with 
many Roman Catholics and poor creatures who have had the Gospel 
set before them in few and simple words, which, perhaps, they had never 
heard before. 


THE MAGDALENE ASYLUM 


Has been regularly visited on the Lord’s Day morning; Services held, tracts 
distributed, and the inmates talked to, and prayed with, individually, as well 
as collectively, about the salvation of their souls ; and I have reason to hope 
that this labor has not been in vain in the Lord. Some of them, we hope, 
are already looking to Christ as their Saviour, and others, I trust, are 
anxiously inquiring the way to Zion. 


THE LADIES’ BENEVOLENT INSTITUTION 


Has been visited nearly once a week ; the children cathechised and instructed 
from the Word of God; the Gospel preached to the aged; the sick and dying 
read to and prayed with, and religious tracts and other papers left for their 
_ perusal. 


THE MILITARY BARRACKS 


Have also been visited; tracts distributed to the soldiers on duty, sick in 
hospital, prisoners in the Guard Room, &c. 


VISITS TO SICK AND FAMILIES. 


I have been much encouraged in this part of my work, more so indeed than 
in any other, in as much as I have seen more immediately the fruits of my 
labors, especially in visiting the sick and dying; the aged, impotent and 
blind, who could not attend the house of God, have rejoiced to have the 
Gospel brought to their houses. Some who have passed away, I trust to 
meet again among the blood washed throng who shall sing the praise of re- 
deeming love. 


PRAYER-MEETINGS 


Have been held every week, but, I am sorry to say, very poorly attended. I 
find it hard to get the people to meet in private houses, and, I believe, school 
rooms or other suitable places hired for the purpose, would be much better 
than private dwellings. 


Various other matters might be mentioned, but these are the principal, and 
may suffice to show the necessity and importance of the work, together with 
the encouragement we have to go on, assured that though for the present we 
see little fruit, yet the good seed being sown, we have no doubt it will ap- 
pear, though it should be after many days, to the glory of God in the salva- 
tion of immortal souls, 


LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS 


TO THE 


Ok PieYen o MBS S-bO.N 


FOR 1859. 


oo 


Collected by F. E. Grafton. 


Hon. R. Jones, St. Johns 
Geo. Wilkes 

James Court 

A. Walker 

Wm. Stephens 

J. Redpath 

P. Redpath 

L. H. Holton 

Hon. Peter McGill 
Henry Thomas 


S. Greenshields, Son & Co. 


Jas. Johnston 
R. Adams 

Cash 

A Friend 

J. Rattray 

A. McGibbon 
W. Murray 
Cash 

Robt. Anderson 
J.& J. Miller 
F. W. Torrance 
J. Sterling 

J. Brown 

D. A. Poe 

A. F. Holmes 
Robt. Irwin 

A. & J. Ferguson 
J. Kingan 

Geo. Robson 

J. Robertson 
W.E. 


J. M, 

Jos. Mackay & Bros. 
Jas. Moir 

G. B. 

James Torrance 
John Plimsol 

Ww. OD. 


t 


$10 00 


bo 
nro an 
i=) 
Oo 


pot 


— 
COM ONMN NE KEK NOME YN NWN HMANONNNMNNNNTOAMAAAS 
oO 
oO 


—— 


J. H. Roper 00 
J. Gray 00 
R. J. Smith, M. D 00 
Dr. Reddy 00 
Mrs. Aitken 50 
W. C, 00 
M. Ramsay 00 
Cash 00 


Jno. Parslow 
J. H. Maitland 
Thank-offering 


Clarke 00 
J. ©. Becket 00 
Jas. Dakers 00 
J. Hutchinson 00 
R. 8S. Oliver 00 
H. Morgan 50 
M. Laing 00 
W. Austin 00 


Om eRe DOWN OR NNR DR eR ee ee 
ons) 
oO 


Cash and sums under $1 


$215 50 


ee ees 


Collected by G. W. Reid. 


N.S. Whitney $40 00 
Tra Gould 20 00 
Alex. Milloy 20 00 
Clark Fitts 5 00 
Geo. Hagar 20 00 
H, A. Nelson 10 00 
J. Butters 5 00 
Ben}. Lyman 20 00 
Greene & Sons 20 00 
B. P. Paige 00 
Corse & May 15 00 
EK. C. Tuttle 00 
S. D. Childs 


Geo. S. Brush 
Mason Mills . 
J. McLennan 
H, Seymour 
N. J, Adams & Co. 7 00 


— — 
WORN S oN 
oe 
o 


Mrg. Mills 4 00 
Robt. Millard 4 00 
J. Murphy 4 00 
Mr. Buxton 5 00 
A Friend 5 00 
Cash 2 00 
A Friend 5 00 
T. D. Bigelow 10 00 
B. Brewster, jr. 5 00 
EK. Atwater 5 00 
C. Hagar & Co. 2.00 
G. Childs 5 00 
S. English 5 00 
P. D. Brown 2 00 
G. R. Prowse 2 00 
Cash 2 00 
Chas. Childs 5 00 
M. H. Seymour 5 00 
W. S. Childs 3 00 
ey 2 00 
Cash 1 00 
G. Brush 3 00 
W. P. Hayward 4 00 
W. H. Atwater 2 00 
B. B. Ruton 2 00 
D. P. Janes 4 00 
W. T. Davenport 1 00 
J. B. Stevenson 2 00 
Cash 1 00 
C. EH. Seymour 3 00 
A Friend 10 00 
A. Adams 2 00 
J. DeWitt, jr. and friend 6 00 
F. Hill 1 00 
David Rea, jr. 1 00 
D. T. Irish 1 00 
O. F. Brown 1 00 
Mrs. W. Lyman 1 00 
J. C. Thomson 1 00 
J. A. Bazin 2 00 
Reed & Rayner 10 00 
Hugh Thomson 2 00 
hm. F. Ames 5 00 
L. W. Dorman 3 00 
Jas. Haliday, 2 sub. 50 00 
Cash 0 50 
A Bible Class 5 00 
$433 50 
Collected by P. W. Wood. 

W. R. Hibbard $40 00 
«J, P, Clark 40 00 
David Lewis 40 00 
G. Winks 20 00 
C. Alexander 40 00 
J. Leeming 20 00 
W. Nivin 40 006 


21 


Henry Lyman 20 00 
Savage & Lyman 20 00 
F. E. Grafton 10 00 
J. Baylis 10 00 
P. W. Wood 10 00 
R. H, Holland 10 00 
A, Savage 10 00 
F, Scholes 10 00 
Mrs. H. Lyman 10 00 
J. Dougall 10 00 
Miss Smith 4 00 
E: Wright 5 00 
J. Carson 3 00 
S. W. Abbott 5 00 
R, Mills 5 00 
C. F. Smithers 5 00 
W. Rodden 5 00 
W. McDougall 5 00 
W. McDonough 5 00 
Mrs. C. Dunkin 4 00 
S. Forster 4 00 
Wm. Learmont 5 00 
Hy. Vennor 5 00 
Mr. Hird 2 70 
J. Williamson 2 50 
W. Moodie 5 00 
R. Birks 2 00 
G. Perry 2 00 
Friend 2 00 

A friend in country, per 
Dr. Wilkes 5 00 
Wm. McGinnis 1 00 
Dr. Wilkes 2 00 
G. Wilson 1 00 
R. Seath 2 00 
$447 20 

Collected by R. Hall. 

James Ferrier, jr $5 00 
Wm. Lunn 4 00 
D. Torrance 10 00 
Cash 5 00 
J. Hardman 5 00 
A Friend 3 00 
R. Graham 3 00 
Geo. Robson 5 00 
T. M. Bryson 2 00 
R. Campbell 2 00 
Dr. Howard 2 00 
R. Latham 2 00 
J. McMillan 1 50 
A Friend 1 50 
J. Wilson 1 00 
Cash—E. & Co. 2 00 
A Friend 1 00 
C, 1 00 
8.°D. 1 50 


on Rae 


22 


00 J.P. 
00 Cash 


00 $50 5 


David Brown 
Johnston Thomson 
W. D. McLaren 
James Morice 
Friends 

A. Robertson 

J.J. C. Abbott 
W. W. Morrow 


A Friend 1 50 George Mochrie 1 00 
W. Trigg 1 00 Stephen Kyte 1 00 
A Friend in Country 1 00 James Knox 1 00 
K, 1 00 Edward Coyle 1 00 
W. W. Duffitt 1 00 
$62 00 G.F.L.S. 1 00 
James Cochrane 0 50 
sacra? —s Maxwell 0 at 
Collecte nox. rchibald Maxwell 0 50 
ty ine W.S. Walker 0 50 
Laird Paton $3 00 Geo. Bell 0 50 
George Rogers 00 Cash—C. A. & Co 0 50 
Warden King 00 A Friend to the Cause 0 50 
0 
3 


00 Collected by the Treasurer. 


pol ee ee et ee ee DO OS Sw 
or 
oO 


Mrs. D. MeNevin W. C. Baynes $5 00 
D. W. 00 Rev. M. W. 0 50 
Thomas Watson 00 A Lady at Brampton 2 00 
James Norval 00 Joseph Leeming 10 00 
Robert Gardner 00 J. Wenham 5 00 
John Lewis 00 J. W. Howes 2 00 
William Rutherford 00 Thos. Leeming 16 00 
J. Cassils 00 G. M. Soule 5 00 
J. Thomson 00 Alex. Clerk ' 5 00 
James Morrison 00 - Mr. Ainsley 5 00 
David McKay 00 Lonsdale, Towner & Burritt 8 00 
Alexander Kyle 00 J. Lovell 5 45 
John G. Sippel! 00 

J. W. Coleman 00 | $68 95 


23 


THOMAS LEEMING, Treasurer, in account with the 
Montreal Young Men’s Christian Association. 


Cr. 

To Nett Proceeds of Lectures - ~ - - - - - $ 69 92 
‘© Members Subscriptions - . - - - - - - 92 00 
‘© Proportion of Room expenses paid by Mission Fund ~ - 123 97 
“ Balance due Treasurer - - ~ - ~ - - - A8 82 

$334 71 
Dr. 

Paid Balance due Treasurer from last Report - ~ - - § 50 06 
« Sundry Printing Accounts - ~— - z - - - - 36 70 
“Rent of Rooms - - - - - = $160 00 
“ Postages, Cleaning and Repairs, Insurance, 

Wood, Gas, Stationery - - ~- 87 95 ———— 247 95 
$334 71 
Balance due Treasurer - - - - $48 82 
MISSION FUND. 
Cr 
Collections as per list received from Mr P. W. Wood - - - $447 20 
« & “ 4s G. W. Reid . - - 433 50 
& it ee se F. E. Grafton - - 215 .50 
a ts se + J. Knox - - - - 50 75 
a &¢ ee c¢ R. Hall a ee 3 62 00 
Nett proceeds of Annual Festival, including a donation of $10 
through Mr. Grafton i YA ey itiobiice olkal selena. * 38 83 
Received from Tract Society, on account of Mr. Mitchell’s salary 99 00 
Received or collected by Treasurer - - - - : ‘ 68 95 
$1415 73 
Dr. 

Paid Balance due Treasurer from last Report - - - - $96 02 
© Qn account of Missionaries Salary - - ~ > - = 1023 75 
‘© Printing &c., and expenses of Prayer Meetings in Suburbs - 61 90 
‘‘ Proportion of Room expenses - . - - 4 (ee OT 

Balance on hand of Treasurer, = - rae 
$1415 73 
Balance brought down $110 09 


Audited and found correct, 


GEO. CHILDS, 
J. G. BAYLIS. 


24 


f& IP PEIN DXi Se. 


RULES FOR GUIDANCE OF THE MISSIONARIES. 
1. The great object to be kept in view is the conversion of souls, all other 
objects being subordinate to this one. 


2. When persons are found who do not attend any place of worship, but 
who express a preference for a particular denomination, their names and 
address should be given to the Minister of that denomination, in order that 
they may be looked after. And ifit is found that they are not looked after, 
they may together with those persons who have no denominational prefer- 
ences, be introduced to the Pastor of any Evangelical Church, who will 
themselves look after them, or cause them to be looked after by the office- 
bearers of their Church. 


3. Endeavour in accordance with the preceding rule to induce children to 
attend Sabbath School. 


4, Aim in all possible ways to promote the comfort and health of the 
people you visit, by counsels to cleanliness and temperance, also the educa- 
tion of their children, and such other matters as may come under your ob- 
servation. 


5. Cultivate a friendly spirit with Missionaries acting for other Societies, 
or for Churches, and be careful to avoid coming into collision with any exis- 
ting Society or Church. 


6. Each Missionary should apply himself to the particular work appointed q 
to him by the Mission Committee. 5 


7. In domiciliary visiting, special care should be exercised on behalf of the i 
destitute poor, and with prayerful endeavour to make every visit useful to % 
them. y 
8, Report to Mission Committee any suitable locality and Rooms for : 
Mission Schools, or small meetings among the poor. 


9. It is advisable that the Mission Committee be consulted before asking 
persons to assist in the conducting of these meetings, except as regards 
Ministers and Members of the Committee of the Association. It is also 
advisable, that they be informed of invitations to occupy any of the City 
pulpits. 

10. Each Missionary should record in his journal, the statistics of his 
labors, the meetings attended, and any interesting incidents that may occur, 
or any information which may be useful to him or the Committee, together 
with observations in regard to vices and evils, which may come under their 
notice. The journal being at all times open to the inspection of the Com- 
mittee. 

11. A concise monthly Report should be furnished, shortly previous to the 
regular monthly meeting of the General Committee. 


12. It will be the duty of two of the members of the Mission Committee, to ‘% 
act inconcert with each Missionary, aiding by their counsel in all suitable 
ways, and as far as possible assisting them in their particular work. 


o.oo 


13. All denominational differences or controverted questions among Evan- 
gelical Christians should be avoided, and in the exercise of a Catholic spirit 
seek the things which make for peace, and the union of the people of God. 


14. It is advisable that all moneys received by the Missionaries for benevo- 
lent purposes, should be entered in the journal, and also the use to which they . 
are applied, and the names of persons assisted. 


> 
NES One ON ET eR. wD ie 


The Motto forming the Frontispiece of this Report, which 
now hangs in the Rooms of the Association, was given by Rev. 
E. P. Hammonp, in a stirring address delivered by him at the 
Annual Meeting of 1862, and was designed and presented to the 


Association by Mr. Hunry SanpHam. 


‘ 


am rr arm eee a tN ORC A I, LO LS LAE LCD A CA LTE AAA ——+ 
eer ermerrn neem IS BORE! 1! Ne SLES NS EET IE NTE TT I ccs abvatbemnanioren nadterapinds arysge iiss "Shatin aS Set A A ENN ASOT SST TT 


Tacit Me pa 


Sh 


PRE 


set 


+ 


