Young Men’s 
Christian 
Association 
of Montreal 


ANNUAL 
F REPORT 
1958 


One Hundred and Seventh Year 


FORWARD 


The Board of Directors takes pleasure in 
submitting the Annual Report of the 

Young Men's Christian Association of 

Montreal for the year ending December 31st, 
1958, in accordance with the requirements 

of the Constitution. 

This report covers matters of general interest 
affecting the Montreal Association as a 

whole. Detailed reports of all eleven 
branches, including Sir George Williams College 
and schools, have been submitted and approved 
at their respective meetings and are included 


in the records of each branch. 


1. 


he 
be 


To 


8. 


Je 
10, 


AGENDA: ANNUAL MEETING 


YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 


MONDAY, APRIL 20th, 1959, 5.00 P.M. 


BUDGE HALL DRUMMOND STREET 


CHAIRMAN ~ GEORGE M. HOBART, 
PRESIDENT, 
Y.M.C.A. OF MONTREAL 


DEVOTIONAL EXERCISES .oesscccccccccccceesesceesssCLARENCE M, McCULLY 
ASSISTANT GENERAL SECRETARY 


ADOPTION OF THE MINUTES OF THE LAST ANNUAL MEETING: 


Moved by: 
Seconded by: 


REPORT OF THE HONORARY TREASURER...csssescsseee Jee LOGAN 
REPORT OF THE GENERAL SECRETARY....ceeeeeeeeeeesF RED G. HUBBARD 
PRESIDENT'S REMARKS 

MOTION TO ADOPT THE REPORTS: 


Moved by: 
Seconded by: 


REPORT OF THE NOMINATING COMMITTEE AND ELECTION OF DIRECTORS: 


Moved by: 
Seconded by: 


APPOINTMENT OF AUDITORS: 


Moved by: 
Seconded by: 


SUCH OTHER BUSINESS AS MAY PROPERLY COME BEFORE THE MEETING 

ANNOUNCEMENT: BRIEF MEETINGS OF THE METROPOLITAN BOARD AND THE 
CORPORATION OF SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS COLLEGE AT 
THE CLOSE OF THIS ANNUAL MEETING 


ADJOURNMENT 


INDEX '- PAGE 


i a 


HIGHLIGHTS OF 1958 2 
A PERVADING CHRISTIAN EMPHASIS 4 
MEMBERSHIP 7 
PROGRAM SUMMARY REPORT 10 
CAMPS 13 
BOYS AND GIRLS 19 
TEEN 22 
YOUNG ADULT oer 25 
PHYSICAL 31 
EDUCATION 3h 
RESIDENCES 38 
PERSONAL COUNSELLING 40 
FINANCE AND PROPERTY 42 
MEMORIAL COMMITTEE 45 
YMCA AND MONTREAL COMMUNITY 46 
YMCA AND THE WORLD COMMUNITY 48 
PERSONNEL 53 
OBITUARY 60 
APPRECIATION 61 
STATISTICAL REVIEW 62 


FINANCIAL REVIEW 65 


THE YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 


The Y.M.C.A. of Montreal functions through eleven branches, in- 
cluding Sir George Williams College and Schools. With the ex- 
ception of Central and the College, each of the branches serves 
a specific area of Greater Montreal, Central Branch and Sir 
George Williams College and Schools, located in the heart of 
Montreal's business section, draw their members and students 
from all parts of the city. 


Each Branch is governed by a Board of Management, while Sir 
George Williams College and Schools is under the direction of a 
Board of Governors. The Branch functions under its own Board 
of Management to determine the needs of the community in which 
it serves and the program is evolved to fill that need. 


Central Branch Northeastern Branch 
International Branch Northmount Branch 
Lachine Branch N.D.G. Branch 
Lakeshore Branch Southwestern Branch 
Montreal East Branch Westmount Branch 


Sir George Williams College 


College - Schools 


Evening High School Day College 
Evening College School of Art 
Business School School of Retailing 


Elementary School 


Camps 
Kamp Kanawana Camp Perrot 


Otoreke Lodge 
Christieville Ski Lodge 


1. 


HIGHLIGHTS OF 1958 


What problems are facing the youth of today in our new world? 
How well are youths being equipped to meet the problems they 
stand to inherit from the older generation? In 1956-57 the 
Montreal Y.M.C.A. through its boards and committees looked 
objectively at these questions. The result was the "Values 

for Living" document; a rephrasing of our overall program goals. 
Secondly, the fresh emphasis on program methods was envisaged 
in the document "Guide to Program Planning". 


In 1958 a start was made in the application of these more 
clearly defined methods in the development of program and for 
the purpose of assisting in the realigation of the "Values for 
Living" goals. 


On the recommendation of the Metropolitan Program Committee, a 
special grant was made to the N.D.G. Branch to provide ex- 
perienced staff leadership to organize youth and teen clubs 
oriented to the new method, and employing the Values for 
Living as program goals. 


This specific experiment has not precluded a tremendous for- 
ward movement in all suburban branches along these same lines, 
but the experience of the more controlled study in N.D.G. is 
intended to be a resource for techniques that could later be 
applied to operations in teen age group work in all branches. 


In 1958, the whole question of leadership and training became 

a central issue for study and effort. In this context we 

might name 1958 a year of self appraisal. It became evident that 
if the methods were to be successful as an educational process 
for young people, then committee members, the secretarial staff, 
and the volunteer club advisors would have to learn the new in- 
sights and new techniques involved in their role of educators. 


To meet this need the staff and leadership training policy and 
program of the Association was reorganized and strengthened. 


The wind-up of the capital funds solicitation completed the 
financing of the Centennial Building Expansion program and 
made possible the restoration of the Endowment and Bequest 
Funds. 


The high rate of membership increase experienced in the last 


few years slowed down and we entered a period of consolidation 
and refinement in program and organization. 


a 


36 


A PERVADING 
CHRISTIAN 
EMPHASIS 


A world wide fellowship - for the 
purpose of developing Christian 
personality and a Christian society. 
In every aspect of its work this 
underlying purpose remains un- 
changed and finds its expression 
through a Christian atmosphere 


touching the life of the individual. 


he 


CHRISTIAN EMPHASIS. 


Occasionally friends of the Y.M.C.A. and leaders intimately 
associated with its life and work call for more religion in 
Y.M.C.A. program, but do not find it easy to state what 
specific elements ought to be included that are not now there. 


The need here is not so much to define the term "religion", 
which all too quickly leads to abstractions, but to locate 
those activities and relationships within the whole Y.M.C.A. 
program that are most significant’ for the realization of our 
Christian purpose, 


Religion is related to all of life, we says; but just how and 
why is it manifested? God is concerned with all of life, 
religion cannot be put in a corner or on a pedestal remote 
from any phase of daily living. 


The Y.M.C.A. proceeds on the supposition that those who be- 
come members of the Association can and should be assisted in 
developing for themselves an understanding of, and a commitment 
to a way of life based on the teachings and the example of 
JeSUS o 


To achieve this the entire life of the Association, including 
its administration, its program, its policies, the methods of 
its leaders, Board Members and staff must be compatible with 
this purpose. 


The realization of the Y.M.C.A. purpose in the lives of its 
members is essentially an educational process. Among all the 
contacts within the wide range of Association relationships 
and among all forms of participation in Association activities, 
which are the most significant from the standpoint of 
Christian education? 


Drawing upon the knowledge of how personality is formed in general, 
it can be stated with confidence that growth takes place at these 
strategic points. 


eee Where persons are forming friendships; in clubs, in boy 
girl relationships or "pal-buddy" friendships, through 
working with others on projects. 


5e 


eee Where persons feel the impact of ideas; in classroom 
or discussion groups, in personal conference, in the library. 


«es Where persons are called upon to make decisions; in re- 
gard to life work, education, marriage; with reference 
to personal habits; on committees or councils where 
policies are being formed, 


ees Where persons are carrying out responsibilities; in 
classrooms or in group leadership, on the basketball 
floor, in organizing a financial campaign. 


ees Where persons are having experiences of spiritual re- 
newals; in private meditation or group worship, in 
listening to music, on occasions where achievement is 
recognized, in moments of deeper fellowship within the 
family or a circle of friends, 


These then provide the "teachable moments" when the purpose of 
the individuals involved, the stimulus and guidance of the 
leader and the teacher, can help persons grow and develop in 
Christian qualities and allegiance. 


6. 


MEMBERSHIP 


As we look back three years to 

1956 we see a year of retooling 

of facilities and buildings. Out 
of that same year came a memorandum 
with two general overall goals 
Suggested; the first of which dealt 
with general improvement in program 
quality and content, the second was 
to extend the improved facilities of 


the Y.M.C.A. to more people. 


Te 


MEMBERSHIP 


By 1955 the population of Montreal had increased steadily and 
showed promise of continual increase throughout the balance of 
the fifties. In this period it was observed that we would also 
face a surging population of youngsters and teen agers coming 
out of the post war birth rate. The new facilities completed 
in 1956 provided a capacity to service a membership perhaps 
50% greater than the 1955 figure of 16,091. In the three year 
period, 1956-57-58, membership increased to 23,912 or 48.6%. 


In terms of age composition or sex composition there has not 

been any significant city wide shift in membership. Within the 
particular branches it is perhaps interesting to note that in the 
Central downtown branch there is a rapid "aging" in membership, This 
is coming through the increased enrollment of business men for 
physical work, and registration for informal adult education 

courses. The aging is compounded by an annual drop of 30% per 

annum in the downtown youth and teen age group for the past three 
sucessive years. The population of the downtown area is becoming 
increasingly composed of single people ami childless couples. 


A factor worthy of note is the phenomenal growth of Lakeshore 
Branch from membership of 110 in 1956, 1172 in 1957 and 1998 in 
1958. 


In looking ahead to the 60's, two parallel developments might be 
anticipated in membership coming out of two new emphases in general 
program, The first being a considerable growth in the teen age 
group as the club centered program grows beyond its experimental 
stage of 1958; the parallel development will likely be an in- 
crease in the young adult membership attracted by the growing en- 
deavour of branches to offer short term informal education courses 
to this group. 


The years end showed a total of 23,912 members enrolled, an increase 
of 4.6% over the previous years total. In addition there were 325 
registered non-members participating in various specific activities 
during the year, while a total of 2443 campers were enrolled. 
Different individual members in 1958 reached a total of 38,449. The 


figures below do not include camp enrollment or registered non- 
members, 


8. 


In all, 41,540 different boys, girls, men and women were 
active in the program during the year. 


Membership by Branches 


Central 


Sir George Williams College 


International 

Notre Dame de Grace 
Southwestern 
Northmount 

Lachine 

Westmount 
Northeastern 
Montreal East 
Lakeshore 


Total 


Male 18148 
Female 5316 


Under 12 
12 - 14 
15 -17 
18 — 2h 


Different Members 
During the Year 


8419 
12820 


Per Cent 


69.7 
3063 


Per Cent 


1363 
46 
12. 


38.3 


To 


tal at 


Dec. 31/58 


By Age 


25-29 
30-34, 
35 & up 
Unknown 


Per Cent 


16.9 

8.6 

13.2 
ro" 


9 


1958 presented the mid way 
mark in a three-year operation 
of program modernization. .e.. 
a modernization in terms of 


goals, technique, and content. 


PROGRAM 


CAMPS 

BOYS AND GIRLS 
TEEN 

ADULT 
PHYSICAL 
EDUCATION 
RESIDENCE 


PERSONAL COUNSEL 


10. 


In 1957 work on a restatement of program goals and methods 
was completed and 1958 became the first year of practical 
application. Each branch has to greater or lesser degree 
taken an experimental and evaluative attitude to its work 
throughout this testing period. Using "Values for Living" 

as the goals and Guide to Program Development as the new 
methodology, implementation began through gradual application 
of these by each branch to its particular setting. 


A comprehensive evaluation cannot adequately be made until 
the end of the 58-59 program session, but it did become 
evident early in 1958, that as we came to look upon the 
Y.MsC.A. in the role of educators of youth and young adults 
then some new insights were needed for the whole field of 
small group work, and its inherent educative processes. 


TOWARDS A QUALITATIVE UPLIFT IN PROGRAMs oo 


The measure of "qualitative" program is not the variety that 
is added. It is a measure of the "experience" members get 

out of the program; the degree of enrichment to themselves, 
the new confidence they develop through accomplishment in new 
interests or skills...the new set of values they place on 
themselves as individuals, The whole effort of 1958 has been 
sharply geared to produce this kind of qualitative program. 
experience. 


A CREATIVE SETTING. oo 


The following series of reports will point up how in each 
major sector of Y.M.C.A. programming the new method is achieving 
& success in contributing to this kind of enrichment for in- 
dividuals, The fascinating fact about the whole operation is 
that in keeping with Y.M.C.A. precepts this enrichment is 

not a process "taught" to people by a corps of professional 
teachers or lecturers, it is instead a product of the inter- 
action of people themselves operating in a constructive, 
Creative setting. The professional and skilled aspect enters 
in the sense of the Y secretary to construct this creative 
Setting within which the interaction and group process can be- 
come operative. 


The Y secretary is then an enabler or catalyst to the learn- 
ing process, 


Evidence of this process can be found in many aspects of 
program...a reading of the seperate reports that follow 
will point up the movement towards more qualitative program 
and enrichment to individual members. This is truly ex- 
emplary of the Y.M.C.A. goals of helping people to help 
themselves, 


12. 


PROGRAM 


CAMPS 


Lots of wonderful things happen to a boy or 
girl at camp. Some put on inches, some put 

On pounds, but the most wonderful event of 

all is that deep inward growth of characteree. 
confidence that comes with new) akills learned... 
understanding that comes from living out with. . 
friends of many walks of life...spiritual 
harmony that comes from living in kinship 

with nature, This is the kind of growth that 
gives camp its meaning, In the richest 
tradition of the Y.M.C.A. triangle, a youth at 
camp grows in spirit, mind and body, and 
carries home new ideas and Christian values 
that linger on as treasured memories and 


guide-posts to living in later years, 13. 


KAMP KANAWANA 


Located near St. Sauveur in the Laurentians, the camp property 
includes three lakes and a part of a fourth, covering some 

600 acres. Facilities of every kind make possible a variety 
of program regardless of weather conditions. 


PRE-CAMP TRAINING SESSION. 


In a series of pre-camp sessions the Counsellor and staff group 
discussed, worked through, and accepted the Values for Living 

as personal objectives and sought out ways of making their im- 
pact more meaningful to boys. Recognizing the need to train 
ourselves to do this kind of an educational job in a better way, 
a training process evolved to develop an awareness in counsellors 
of how youngsters learn and the role of the Counsellor and Staff 
person in facilitating this learning. 


Methods were established to ensure that the training process . 
continued throughout the camp period; ample opportunity was. 
given for evaluation from the various staff members and a 
regular supervisory schedule for all staff members was drawn up. 


Supervision was considered best done when it was regular, and 
permitted staff members to share their difficulties; the 
supervisor closely associated himself with the problem rather 
than merely giving critical comment, 


SIGNIFICANT . ADVANCES IN PROGRAMMING, 


Program is everything that happens to a boy...not just the 
organized activities. It is the medium for influencing growth 
toward Values for Living, At Kanawana in 1958 the entire 
program emphasis centered on the tent group. The counsellor 
tried to know each of his seven boys well enough that he could 
help them work out a satisfying set of activities suited to 
their own interests, Here are some of the results emanating 
out of this new "goal centered" approach. 


1. Acceptance of the "Values for Living" as the objectives of 
Program gave direction and purpose to group "decision 
making", far beyond previous years. 


2. All program including camp traditions were appraised on 


the basis of their importance and place in realizing 
these program objectives. 


3. The variety of program increased, as tent groups found a 


sympathic climate to express their innermost desires, 


They showed an amazing ability to come up with program 
ideas that resourcefully used the facilities already ex- 


istent in the camp or the natural outdoor setting. 


4e Campers seemed to find real enjoyment from the sunmer; 
many parents took the time to write or verbally express 


their appreciation. 


KANAWANA STATISTICS. 


Age of Campers 


8 

9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 


Total Campers 


Length of Stay in Camp 


1 Week 
2 Weeks 
3 Weeks 
4 Weeks 
5 Weeks 
6 Weeks 
8 Weeks 


and more 


1956 


0 
324-61.9% 
3 


137 
57 


1957 1958 
47 18 
68 60 

102 87 
96 115 
88 8h, 
7h 80 
50 45 
27 39 

6 10 

558 528 
0 0) 

Vane 367-68.2% 

3 

122 109 
0 0 
19 23 
43 36 


15. 


CAMP PERROT «+ FOR BOYS AND GIRLS, 


This camp like Kanawana is operated under the Camping 

Committee of the Metropolitan Board of Directors, Situated 

on the south shore of Isle Perrot, looking out over the 

St. Lawrence River and Lake St. Louis, its design is to provide 
a short term out-of-doors' camping experience to boys and girls 
10-16 years of age and at a modest fee. The camp operates a 
six week period for boys and then the last two weeks of August 
the girls take over with their own staff and counsellors, 


LEADERSHIP 


Of the twenty-four staff members, only seven were new to Perrot; 
three senior staff and four counsellors. This was a vital asset 
in the whole camp organization. Staff training and review started 
with most of the counsellors attending a series of "in-city" 
training sessions, followed by five days "in-camp" training. 


TENT UNIT, SECTION & ALL CAMP PROGRAM. 


Each tent unit consisted of five campers compared to the usual 
seven. Each tent group planned its own program for part of each 
day through the little Chiefs, (the tent representatives) who 

met daily with the Section Director. The counsellor was leader 
for his own tent group in all activities, and was with his 

campers at all times, This demanded more skill of the counsellor, 
but it did give more variety to his work and, most important, it 
gave better individual attention to campers. 


Evening programs were usually on a section basis, and consisted 
mainly of group games. 


The whole camp met for weekly Council Fires, Friendship Fires and 
General Swims. 


A few other outstanding events were Indian Day, Rodeos, Indian 
Decathlon, Swim Meets, Amateur Nights and Regattas, 


HEALTH AND SAFETY, 


iP general health of the camp was very good, All ailments were 
saa nature. The average gain in weight was over two 
pounds and the average stay per camper was two weeks. 


16. 


FUTURE 


Due to the rapid encroachment of summer cottages and year 
round housing in the general area of the camp, the Camp 
Committee is currently questioning the future of this site 
as a resident camp, 


CAMPERS RECEIVING FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE. 1958 . 
Foreman's Club of Montreal 30 
Verduns Y's Men's Club : 2 
Children's Service Centre 2 
Verdun Girls! Club a 
Kinette Club, Pte. Claire a 
N.D.G. Y's Men's Club pe 
Private Individuals 1 


SUMMER DAY CAMPS 


Eleven day camps and summer fun clubs were operated by branches 
during the summer of 1958, These two types of program, 
identical in purposes but different in technique, represent a 
fairly new development in Y.M.C.A. programming over the past 
decade. 


In the day camp an actual out-of-town camp site is obtained, 

to which the youngsters travel by charter bus each morning. For 
example, the Lakeshore Y obtained the use of 25 wooded acres 

at St. Barbe near Valleyfield on Lake St. Louis, Here, 356 
campers spent the day building teepees, leantos, making cook-~ 
outs and engaging in all the fascinations of Indian council lore. 
These are all the experiences of a regular resident camp and 

yet the youngsters return home in time for supper. Lachine 
Branch conducted a Sumner Day Camp on another site. 


SUMMER FUN CLUBS, 


The Summer fun clubs are similar in philosophy but they are not 
centered on a particular campsite. It is a five day a week 
program of special outings, picnics, crafts, plant visits, com- 
petitive events and recreational games, Some of the program is 
operated in the city branch, some is out-of-town picnicing, and 
an is in the form of museum and plant visits by charter buses. 
th types of summer program are filling a very important role 


17. 


in the whole city-wide movement towards summer recreational 
facilities for youngsters, 


There were 1691 children enrolled in 1958 Day Camps with 
a total program attendance of 36,033 over the seven week 
period, through July and August. 


Leadership for this work came out of branch staffs and was 
supplemented with experienced leaders from our own College- 
YeM.eC.A. Fellowship training group and specially skilled 
people for some crafts instruction. In addition volunteer 
leaders included college and high school students and 
mothers of participating boys and girls, 


18, 


PROGRAM 


BOYS AND GIRLS 


"As members of the Young Men's Christian 
Association, it is our purpose to be strong 
in body, mind and spirit and to live ina 
Christian way in our homes,schools,churches, 
and neighbourhood. 

As members we achieve the purpose of our 
youth clubs by striving together: 

To be Friendly 

To respect and serve others 

To be healthy 

To show good sportsmanship 

To be helpful at home 

To keep up in school work 


To take part regularly in church activities 
To be reverent to God! 


oe 8 6 © © 6 


19. 


BOYS AND GIRLS PROGRAM 


In this category falls activities for boys and girls 9 to 14 
years of age. In 1958, 17.97 of the total membership were 
included in this age group. It is interesting to note the 
strong appeal of the small friendship club to boys and girls, 
as a focus of program activities, 


GENERAL PROGRAM 


Expansion and quality were the two wital keys to 1958. Hockey 
teams, baseball, football,floor hockey, basketball, general gym 
classes and swim instruction were a big part of the general 
junior program in branches. Some items of note (from many) 
are the trips to Peterboro and Quebec by boys and girls of 
N.D.G. for swimming competitions...87 youngsters went for a 
"hop"over Montreal in a TCA Viscount....another youth division 
raised over $200, and turned the proceeds over to World Service. 
The annual water show at.N.D.G. involved 80 girls ina 
colourful water ballet presentation of "Finlandia"...Lakeshore 
had six Saturday gym centres operating for boys and girls from 
Baie d'Urfee to Pointe Claire. This by no means exhausts the 
list but it is exemplary of the kind of activity being carried 
on throughout the branches for our junior boys and girls. 


CLUB PROGRAM FOR BOYS AND GIRLS 


Friendship clubs (called Gra-Y clubs in some branches) are playing 
an important part in the children's activities, Groups of boys or 
girls from 9 to 14 meet under the direction of a volunteer 
leader in a home, a school or the "Y", Each club, under elected 
officers and advised by a leader, plan and engage in programs 

of special interests to its members. 


Recreation and program for boys and girls in this age group 
certainly cannot exclude movies,cokes and ice cream...but 

they Sre equally eager for creative expression,museum trips and 
art exhibits, Individual crafts,hobbies and dramatics absorb 
many individuals in addition to hikes,games of various kinds 
and the absorbing responsibilities of running their own club. 


In addition to the small group activities clubs come to- 
gether on joint projects such as Penny Carnival, Easter and 
Christmas baskets for "shut-ins", bean feed suppers, bus 
trips to Ottawa and Parliament Hill, Father and Son and 
Mother and Daughter Banquets, and athletic tournaments. 


BOYS AND GIRLS CLUBS ~ MONTREAL Y.M.C.A. 


Number 

of Clubs 
NeoDeGe 9 
International 12 
Lachine 23 
Northmount 2h 
Lakeshore a 
Westmount 21 


Northeastern 42 
Montreal East 112 
Southwestern 6 


Total 154 


Club Members 


65 
118 
380 
288 
248 


142 
462 
168 


a: 
1949 


Annual 


Attendance 


1320 
yoy (half year) 


TEEN 


"TO CREATE, MAINTAIN AND EXTEND IN THE 
HOME, IN THE SCHOOL AND THROUGHOUT THE 
COMMUNITY HIGH STANDARDS OF CHRISTIAN 
CHARACTER." 


Interesting activity .. . trips, 
dances, service projects and sports, 
as well as discussions and speakers on 
problems of the day. 


Close Friends . . » being with friends and 
making new ones. 


Learning Opportunities . . . How to take 
responsibility, to lead and to follow. 
How to get along with others with ease 
and confidence, 


What life values are important. 


What character, democratic citizenship, 
and leadership mean. 


‘PROGRAM 


FRIENDSHIP GROUPS ARE NATURAL 


The naturally formed friendship group is part of youth's 
educative process. What kind of attitudes and ideals are formed 
within this group over the 15 to 19 year old period, depend upon the 
leadership and environment to which the group is exposed. 


The Montreal Y.M.C.A. with its program modernigation scheme 
is keeping pace with modern youth needs to see that the educational and 
character building forces of these teen age friendship groups are posit- 
ively and creatively harnessed by the subtle and careful introduction of 
sound Christian ideals and leadership. 


Club work therefore, combined with the extension idea of 
operating Y.M.C.A. program centred in homes and schools throughout the 
suburban communities, has opened the way to a broad expansion of work 
with teen agers. 


SEVERAL KINDS OF TEEN CLUBS 


In each branch, club formation has taken several forms, each 
an answer to the needs of particular teen groups; some are co-ed, others 
boys and girls singly; some are a mixture of school and working youths; 
some are exclusively one or the other, In this teen category in 1958 
there were 25 clubs operating with a total enrollment of 537. 


In keeping with the qualitative emphasis in teen program, 
much effort throughout 1958 has been directed to the careful development 
of closeknit friendship groups and the training of leadership within the 
groups themselves. Both N.D.G. and Southwestern branches helped the 
officers of teen clubs organize an intensive series of lectures and dis- 
cussions and workshops on the principles and methods of how to be a good 
club president, treasurer, or other officer. Bound up in this whole 
process are the democratic ideals, and essential attitudes of values for 
living. 


MORE THAN A DOZEN NEW CLUBS 


More than a dogen new clubs were inducted in 1958. The 
induction ceremony is a moving and solemn event, usually arranged for a 
Sunday evening in a church or Y chapel, with parents and friends invited, 
In the candlelight ceremony, young people dedicate themselves to a four 
plank platform of Clean Speech, Clean Scholarship, Clean Sportsmanship 
and Clean Living. 


23 


Club program is but one aspect of teen activities. Total 
membership in this 15 = 19 age group was 3928 at the end of the year 
(excluding those enrolled in the college and schools). Throughout 1958 
attendance at dances, parties, social events, dramatics, music, outings 
etc. ran to 76,028 with a little more than half that made up of teen 
age participants, 


A further aspect of teen program is the physical activities 
which takes a great part of their energy...archery, badminton, gym teams, 
figure skating, bowling, basketball, swimming, and even hockey and soft- 
ball found some girl enthusiasts. 


(See physical report) 


PROGRAM 


YOUNG ADULTS 


More young adults are finding 

for themselves within the Y.M.C.A. 
program a satisfactory medium for self 
expression, fellowship and education. 
There were 12,905 young adults (55.2% of 
membership) between 18-30, The college 
accounted for 9,000 and other 

program registrants for 3,900 (estimated) 
Total enrollment in adult skills 

and interest groups was 1,516 

with attendance 34,469...lectures, forums 
and study groups drew participation 

of 12,566, 


25 


ADULT PROGRAM 


This section of the report has reference to non-physical 
program for adult members of the Association. 


While adults within a wide age group, from eighteen years 
and up, have participated in the activities of the Assoc- 
iation, the younger adults face special and unique problems, 


Between the ages of 18 and 25 young people face at least four 
lifewsize decisions affecting the next forty or fifty years 
of their life: 


1. They choose (or fall into) a career or steady job; 
2. They choose a life partner and marry; 
3. Apart from having babies and working to support 
them, attitudes and habits of leisure take shape}; 
he A basic philosophy of life forms, centered around 
a& new system of values that must somehow relate to 
their work, their children and themselves. 
Thirty-eight percent of the total membership fall within this age 
groupe 


Committee personnel, volunteer leaders and staff were conscious 
of these needs as they planned and Sau program in the 
various branches, 


It should be noted that a great many young people are active in the 
College program of formal and informal education, which is dealt 
with in a seperate section of the report. 


A wide range of program was available in the different branches 
and varied to a degree within the limits of the specific interests 
of the adult members and the resources of facilities and leader~ 
ship available. 


INFORMAL EDUCATION 


Three branches last year offered So-ed programs of exceptional 
quality; these programs were organized by the young adult plan- 
ning committee; and were set up on a three phase concept of 
skills, lectures and recreation. Essentially an informal 
education type program, Sowjed is a six or ten week project. 
Instructors are engaged for things like bridge, golf, dancing, 


26. 


NEW 


\ 


art appreciation, music, hunting and fishing, home economics 
and so onj after an hour of practice and instruction in 
their specific skills groups everyone comes together for a 
lecture period, Lecture topics have included "life is for 
living" underwhich young adults have investigated such topics 
as "marriage","child training", "choosing a vocation", 
“communism", "labour unions", "our political parties", 
"American investment in Canada", and "Canadian cultures", 
After the lecture period everyone joins in an hour or more 
of coffee, social games and dancing, if they wish. 


There has been an increase in the number of educational 
courses offered on specific subjects. These have been 
non-credit, and designed to provide quality instruction 
under competent leadership and have dealt with a wide range 
of subject matter, Some have enrolled men or women and 
other.classes have appealed to Co-ed groups. Such subjects 
as the following appeared on branch program lists: Con 
versational French, Music Appreciation, etc. 


Under the general heading of hobbies for the growing leisure 
available to adults it can be reported that there has been 

an increased attendance in classes and clubs on such interests 
ass Oil painting, photography, leathercraft, ceramics, 
smocking, millinery, etc. 


A variety of clubs self governing in nature but centered around 
a common interest included ~ camera club, outing club, glee 
club, music appreciation, film club, table tennis club, etc. 


CANADIANS 


Perhaps the most unique adult education program operated within 
the branch setting is the English Language classes offered for 
New Canadians at International Branch. In 1958, 2,188 students 
received instruction in English language. 


The first obvious step was to help new Canadians get established 
and earn a living by teaching them to speak the language; but as 
immigration in 1958 slowed, for the first time it became possible 
for the Branch Board to give some attention to the additional 
task of helping these people assimilate Canadian customs and 
mix into Canadian life more fully. Some considerable headway 
was made in this direction by organizing discussion groups 

for the more advanced students. Montreal newspaper editors, 
educators and business leaders have made a helpful contribution 
to these people by joining the discussion groups and sharing 
their own rich experience in Canadian life, 


27 


SENIOR SERVICE CLUBS 


Y's 


MEN's CLUBS 


This is the senior men's service club of the Y.M.C.A. of which 
there are two duly chartered clubs in the Montreal Association; 
the Verdun Y's Men's Club, and a second Club, organized in 
1956 at the Notre Dame de Grace Branch, matured in 1957 and 
was duly chartered in 1958 by Y's Men's International. 


Beside the opportunity for individual growth and development, 
these Clubs contribute much by way of financial assistance 
and leadership to the program of the Y.M.C.A. members. 


They have raised funds for World Service, provided subsidy 

to send boys and girls to Camp Perrot, given time to Committees 
within their branches, leadership to clubs and activities for 
youngsters, and taken on important assignments in the Annual 
Financial Campaign. 


FOREMAN's CLUB 


THE 


This Club is for foremen and supervisors in industry with a 
membership of 543 representing 78 industrial firms in the 
Montreal area. This club held monthly meetings with prominent 
guest speakers from Canada and the United States, to address 

them on topics related to their work. The Club published its 

own bulletin and conducted other projects related to the ad- 
vancement of foremanship, such as management development clinics, 
public speaking, safety campaigns, industrial exhibits and tours. 
Thirty boys and girls were enabled to attend Camp Perrot through 
a special fund raised by members of the Club. 


There was a total attendance of 78,188 during the year at social 
events, consisting of dances, parlor socials, dramatic and musical 
activities and a variety of trips, tours and outings, Many of 
these events are an integrated part of the programs of clubs 

and groups and have seasonal significance. 


28, 


OTOREKE = SUMMER LODGE FOR ADULTS 


Two unique extensions of Y.M.C.A. adult program facility are 
the summer lodge near St. Agathe and the winter ski lodge 

at Christieville in the Laurentians,. Operated by a seperate 
Otoreke Camp Committee these two resident lodges provide a 
summer and winter Laurentian setting for young men and women, 
to come together in an atmosphere of leisurely fellowship. 
Complete facilities are available for canoeing,sailing, volley- 
ball, fishing, swimming or just plain laging in the hot sun, In 
the winter, Christieville is situated in the heart of the 

ski country with hills and tows on the property, or easy access 
to Tremblant,St. Sauveur,Morin Heights,Mont Gabrielle, etc., 
for those who want a taste of steeper thrills, 


Located on Lake St. Joseph at St. Adolphe de Howard, and only 7 
miles from St. Agathe, Otoreke is a far cry from its beginnings 

as a Young Adult Club in 1935...0f its own resources this young 
adult group has over the years developed a complete and picturesque 
summer program centre on an island, 


There is a very real change in the holiday habits of our particular 
constituency of young people...they are travelling to far places 
for their vacations but they are also supplementing their full 
summer vacation trips with regular weekend outings. This appears 

to be the new role that Otoreke is fulfilling and it is likely that 
as the Laurentians become more and more a suburb of Montreal 

we can anticipate an increase of short. term guests, 


SPECTAL CONFERENCE & GROUP VISITS 


During the regular camping season, the following groups visited 
camp = 


Notre Dame de Grace Tennis Club 

Central Y.M.C.A. Saturday Night Club 

Otoreke Y.M.C.A. Ski Lodge 

Rochester Y.M.C.A. Swimming and Outing Club 

Montreal Foreman's Club 

Sir George Williams College Fellowship Training Group 


29. 


The following groups held conferences at Otoreke after Labour 
Day - 


The United Church (Montreal Presbytery) Young Adult & 
Family Clubs ~ 120 people. 

Royal Scottish Country Dance Society 

Montreal Y.M.C.A. Hi-Y Executive 

Anglican Young People's Association 

Central Y.M.C.A. Program Department Leaders 

Sir George Williams College Fellowship Training Group 


The possibility of a secomd new role for Otoreke seems to be 
developing with the increased requests from various youth 
organisations for summer conference facilities. 


In the light of the changing pattern of vacationing such a 
scheme would go a long way to fill the growing gap between 
mid-week occupancy and week-end occupancy at Otoreke. 


CHRISTIEVILLE SKI LODGE 


This Lodge is the winter camp for many of the Otoreke guests 
who have formed an Otoreke Ski Club. Its membership during 
the year was 130 with close to 300 different young men and 
women visiting the lodge during the ski season. 


‘There is skiing instruction, cross country and downhill skiing 
as well as indoor evening activities of a social nature. On 
Sunday a morning worship service is conducted in the lodge. 


Beside the winter use of the lodge, the Montreal Association 
uses it for various conferences and branch meetings, It is 
also used by the Friendly Home for Orphans as a summer camp 
for children. 


30. 


PROGRAM 


PH SS D0 4S 


There is another aspect of 

physical program that is of vital 
importance to the urban populations 
whom we serve. This is the distinction 
between physical fitness 

program and physical recreation 
program, 

13,766 members registered for some 
kind of physical activity in 1958; 
their use of facilities numbered just 


over half a million...514,837 to be exact 


31 


In 1958 the physical departments of all Montreal Y.M.C.A. 
branches were strikingly reminded of another aspect of physical program 
that is of vital importance to the urban populations whom we serve. 

This is the distinction between physical recreation program and physical 
fitness program. 


PHYSICAL FITNESS FOR EXECUTIVE LIVING 


Discussion had centered for some time on the question of 
improving physical health programming for business men. Central branch 
took a leading role in October with the presentation of Dr. T.K. Cureton 
in a three day physical fitness clinic, This clinic was attended by 
several hundred business men and special guests from the physical depart~ 
ment of local universities and schools. 


Dr. Cureton, a leader in the physical education field in 
America presented some striking evidence in the distinction between physic- 
al fitness and how much is accomplished in current physical recreation 
programs. "In the face of urban living, physical middle age begins at 
about age 27", said Dr. Cureton. 


If men are to retain the necessary vigour and health for 40 
years of effective living, then they will have to take a more realistic 
attitude towards individual physical fitness training. A game of golf and 
a few week's vacation in the sun is fine recreation but it is not a suffice 
ient substitute for a regular program of physical exercise. 


The Cureton Clinic increased interest in the business men's 
membership and the physical departments have acted to revamp some aspects 
of men's program to provide individualiged fitness training schemes in line 
with Dr. Cureton's recommendations, ~ 


PHYSICAL 


The range of physical program is enormous. There were figure 
skating clubs, golf schools in four branches, skiing instruction, archery, 
inter~YMCA~YMHA-YWCA competitions in basketball, wrestling, swimming, 
ornamental swimming, diving, football, softball. International took some 
Dominion honours in wrestling, N.D.G. took honours in Eastern swimming 
competitions, Enrollment in teams and leagues was 3149, for 58,048 partic- 
ipation, while participation in total athletic events was 189, 237. 


All branches ran "learn-to-swim" programs for kiddies in the 
spring, with community branches coming by charter bus to pools at Westmount, 
Southwestern and Central. 1842 youngsters learned to swim during the year. 
In regular pool programs 5,097 were enrolled, for 189,530 swims and 11,003 
progressive swim tests were awarded, ranging from beginners to life saving. 


32. 


Gymnasium activities enrolled 3678 persons on 67,019 occas- 
ions during the year. In this category are included junior gym programs, 
judo groups, leaders corps trainees, (boys and girls), squash, gymnastics, 
body building, wrestling. 


Women were keen about "slimnastics", and swim programs with 
enrollments at nearly every branch growing steadily last year. Women 
also showed active interest in badminton, archery, skiing and skatinge 
Married women were the biggest group in the spring golf lesson series last 
yeare 


336 


FORMAL EDUCATION 


The Montreal Y.M.C.A. is uniquely involved 

in formal education through Sir George Williams 
College and Schools. Through this year round 
day and evening educational program 1509 persons 
attended winter sessions and 3113 in the sumer 
session.o.a total of 12822 registrants in the 


year 1958 


34 0 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS COLLEGE AND SCHOOLS. 


The Montreal Y.M.C.A. is uniquely involved in formal 

education through Sir George Williams College and Schools, 
Through this year round day and evening educational program, 
9509 persons attended winter sessions and 3113 in the 

summer session..,a total of 12822 registrants in the year 1958. 


Since 1956 which was the last year of registration before the 


new building was opened, this represents an increase of 3000 
students in the two succeeding terms, 


DEGREES AND DIPLOMAS GRANTED IN 1958 


Bachelor Degrees 401 
Associate Diplomas 23 
Diplomas in Association Science 8 
High School Graduation 196 
Elementary School Certificates 57 
Business School Certificates (eve) 76 
Business School Diplomas (day) 43 
School of Retailing Diplomas 16 


REGISTRATION - COLLEGE AND SCHOOLS. 


The academic year 1957-58 showed an increase in registration 
over that of the previous year as indicated in Table 1 . 

The increase however, was not as great as that of the year 
1956-57 over 1955-56 except in the day division of the 
College. 


The summer term of 1958 shows a slight overall increase over 
1957 as indicated in Table 11. This, however, is due to the 
High School and the day division of the Business School, In 
its present form, our summer term has almost reached the 
capacity of the plant. We cannot, therefore, look forward to 
any appreciable increase in the future, 


356 


TOTAL RBGISTRATION - WINTER TERM 1957-58 


TABLE 1. DAY EVENING TOTAL 
1958 (1957) 1958 (1957) 1958 (1957) 
College 
(Arts,Science and Commerce) 1179 ( 969) 4582 (4284) 5761 (5253) 
Engineering oe ee 30 - S$ ( «. 
High School - ( =) 2180 (1920) 2180 (1920 
Elementary School * ( iw) 143 (154) «143 ( 154 
Business School 260 ( 205) 87, ( 799) 1134 (1004) 
School of Art 52 ( 39) 158 (126) 210 ( 165) 
School of Retailing 23. (2.230) ‘i (_-) 23. (3) 
TOTALS 1542 (1243) 9767 (7283) 9509 (8526) 
TOTAL REGISTRATION = SUMMER TERM 1958 
TABLE 11. DAY EVENING TOTAL 
1958 (1957) 1958 (1957) 
College “ - 1906 (1928) 1906 (1928) 
High School ~ ~ 819 ( 690) 819 ( 690) 
Business School 97 (51) 291. ( 317) 388 ( 368) 
TOTALS 97 (él) 3016 (2935) 3113 (2986) 
CURRICULUM. 


The Curriculum Committee was pleased to report that it had 
completed a four year survey of the total academic program of 
the College. 


A number of revisions were made in the curriculum including 
some alternative programs to the compulsory pandemic courses, 
A section of Religious Knowledge was created combining pre- 
vious courses with the addition of several new courses. 


36. 


THE HIGH SCHOOL & ELEMENTARY SCHOOL. 


The elementary grades are operating to capacity and the 
development of Saturday morning classes has been a striking 
feature in the recent growth of this unit, which has hither- 
to been confined to evening classes. 


BUSINESS SCHOOL. 


There was a decided increase in registration for the Summer 
School which started July 2nd, and many of the students 
carried on through August. 


The registration for the September day classes increased to 
such an extent that we had to close registration and limit 
the number of students accepted into the October lst class. 
The day school was filled to capacity on November lst, and 
has kept up very well, The evening Business School was 
slightly lower in total registration this term, due to dis- 
continuance of draughting and allied subjects, The loss in 
registration from the above subjects was partly covered by 
adding two additional new classes, The attendance in the 
evening division has been exceptionally high. 


SCHOOL OF RETAILING. 


Upon recommendation of the Stores Cooperating Committee, the 
Board of Governors approved the extension of this course from 
& one year to a two year program. This change has not de- 
creased the registration and in fact, enrollment has shown a 
healthy increase in the fall of 1958. Cooperating Stores 

as well as many other firms of the Montreal district, continue 
to give assistance to the instructional program in many Ways. 


376 


PROGRAM 


RESIDENCE 
SERVICES 


Loneliness in the midst of a crowd is 
no uncommon phenomenon in the hectic 
bustle of our big cities.... 

Besides a place to sleep and eat a 
young man newly arrived in Montreal 

has need of recreation,friendships, 

and an opportunity to take root by 
learning about his new city and meeting 


some of its people, 


38. 


MEN'S RESIDENCES 


Three of our branches, Central, International and Westmount, 
have men's residences which provide accomodation at a reason- 
able cost to young men. During 1958 this service supplied 
174,150 bed nights. 


The residence of the Central Branch, located in the down- 
town area, attracts the student, the servicemen, the "Y" 
member from another city or country, the foreign visitor, 
or the young man coming to the city for the first time. 
While in Montreal they are rendered many of the services 
needed to make their stay in our gity as pleasant as 
possible. 


The residence has served its rolé throughout the many economic 
and social shifts of the twenties, the thirties, the war years 
and then the immigration days of post war Montreal. In the 
last two years immigration has dropped, economic conditions 
have wavered and the whole downtown area of Montreal has 
undergone a tremendous reconstruction and rebirth. 


The experience of 1957-58 in our downtown residence has 

stirred some fresh scrutiny into the possible role this Y.M.C.A. 
service can expect to fullfill for young men in downtown Montreal 
throughout the next decade or more. 


The purpose and objectives in operating the Y.M.C.A. residence 
are twofold and remain unchanged from its historical past. - 


1. To provide service to young men in need of accomodation in 
Montreal, Besides places to sleep and eat this service 
should also include opportunities for healthful re~ 
creation for friendships and help in becoming acquainted 
to living in Montreal, 


2. To create a source of income to support other Y.M.C.A. youth 
services in the city. 


39 


PERSONAL 
COUNSELLING 


An emphatic first belief of the Y.M.C.A. since 
its inception has been the value of the in- 
dividual personality, Fellowship, recreation, 
and group interests have played various roles 
over the generations in the Y.M.C.A.'s overall 
program of Christian personality development. 
But not all help comes through groups, Many 
persons find within the Y.M.C.A. a receptive 
and sympathetic atmosphere within which they 
can discuss individual problems, 


PROGRAM 


40. 


PERSONAL SERVICE 


From J.A. Sproule, Guidance Counsellor at the College, comes 

the recent statement that the greatest majority of failing 
students were found lacking in any vocational objectives or 
other basic set of goals for their personal life, Without 

the motivation of interest and prime objectives people lack 

the essential incentives to learn. This same principle holds 
equally true for young men and women who come through the Student 
Placement office. 


Sir George Williams College has had a long history of personal 
counsel and helpfulness for many thousand young people. The 
complexity of selecting a vocation is strikingly symbolized 

by the College Careers Library which classifies 36,000 
different vocations in our complex society. 


Throughout 1958 the College Guidance office showed a total of 
2921 counselling appointments with the professional staff, The 
Placement Office reports 4435 interviews with students, 555 
interviews with employers and 626 placements. In addition 31 
firms and institutions sent representatives for one or more days 
to interview students at the College, 


755295 INTERVIEWS 


College life is but one setting in which the Y.M.C.A. finds its 
way into the lives of individuals. In branch program the very 
nature of Y.M.C.A. with its informal setting generates a feel- 
ing of freedom and fellowship. This feeling of freedom from 
constraint coupled with the pervading friendly atmosphere in 
the Y.M.C.A. setting opens the door to a unique kind of rapport, 
between the Y.M,C.A. Secretary and many individual members, To 
develop such a rapport is, after all, the role of the secretary, 
but out of this frequently comes a gradual disclosure of in- 
dividual problems ami concerns, 


Within this setting secretaries exercise help to many individuals. 
To adults and teen agers goes help on vocations, marriage, court- 
ship,family and personality adjustments. To youngsters the 
problems of quitting school, choosing courses, dating; to parents 
the secretary frequently becomes helper or advisor on child 
problems; to the immigrant, the new boy in town, the unemployed 
youth; these are the focus of individual staff attention. In 

1958 there were 75,295 individual interviews recorded and likely 
double that number occured over the coffee cup...in the locker room 
or after a meeting. 


41. 


FINANCE. & 


PROPERTY 


The business community and 
citizens of Montreal continued 
unfailingly in their financial 
support to the vital youth 

work of the Y.M.C.A. The total 
1958 operations budget of the 
Y.M.C.A. went over 2.4 

million dollars, Funds from 
annual campaign represent one in 
ten spent by the Association 
for youth program and education 


work throughout the City. 


42. 


ANNUAL MAINTENANCE CAMPAIGN 


The Annual Financial Campaign which marshalls the staff and 
lay resources of every unit in the Association to its maxe 
imum was held November 17th to December lst. with an ob- 
jective of $230,000, The final returns showed $234,711, 
from 14870 subscribers, the largest number ever recorded in 
a maintenance campaign, These results were excellent in the 
face of unusually heavy losses through deaths, removals and 
business reverses, 


The organizational structure was particularly good with 
leadership effective and morale excellent, Efforts to share 
problems, inform workers and stimulate enthusiasm were per- 
haps better than average. Report meetings were well attended 
and served as an excellent medium or promoting fellowship. 

A printed booklet on "How to Canvass" was well received. 


Mr. W.N. Hall as General Chairman gave enthusiastic and 

effective leadership to the whole undertaking. Mr. L.H.T. Clegg 
as Chairman of Special Names again filled this important role 

with great credit. In addition 15 laymen filled the indispen- 
sable positions of Division Chairmen and Jack Clifford again 
directed publicity. For the second time a member of the 
Metropolitan Board gave the address at the opening meeting. 

This speech by Mr. G. Arnold Hart, General Manager of the Bank 

of Montreal stressed the individual and corporate responsibility 
for the maintenance of voluntary organigations such as the Y.M.C.A. 


ENDOWMENT FUNDS RESTORED 


Reference was made one year ago, to the Special Campaign umer the 
leadership of the President Geo, M. Hobart, to liquidate a de- 
ficiency capital account, The deficit was occasioned by un- 
anticipated costs of the building and renovation program begun 

in 1953. At the end of the year a total of $878,000. had been 
secured. This sum when added to the reserves appropriated for the 
cost of the college auditorium has now completely liquidated 

the deficit. As a result of such a splendid achievement the 
Endowment Fund investments have been restored, 


BUILDINGS LAND AND FACILITIES 


In addition to routine maintenance repairs, extra ordinary re- 
novations and repairs were carried out as follows - 


430 


Drummond & Stanley 

Building ~- Complete renovation of Gymasium involving, floor 
replacement installation of ventilating fans and 
lighting adjustments and complete redecorating. 
Installation of rubber matting in weight lifting 
room, Renewal of stair treds leading from ground 
floor to Metro Offices. 


Sir George Williams - Installation of emergency lighting equip- 
College Building ment o 


Westmount Branch + Major renovations and rehabilitation involving 
rewiring, renewal of plumbing, complete re- 
novation of locker room and swimming pool area 
and the public ami program areas of the building. 
New aluminum frost doors were installed. 


Camp Kanawana = New cabins were erected in the Bantam section. 


Lakeshore = Substansial renovations to facilities for a Youth 
Centre made available by the City of Pointe Claire. 


During the year the Southwestern Branch building was sold to the 
Catholic School Commission of Verdun with occupancy to be given 
June lst, 1959. This sale disposes of the entire holdings on 
Gordon Avenue and Rielle Avenue for a total sum of approxmately 
$375 000. 


A block of land fronting on Lasalle Boulevard and containing 
approxmately 30890 sq. ft. was purchased from the Verdun 

Protestant Hospital. Plans and specifications were completed 

to erect a two story Community type building on this site and the 
contract awarded to L. Gordon Tarlton & Co, for $147,733. Com= 
pletion date is April 2nd, 1959. The Architect is Mr. A Leslie Perry. 


A strip of land was acquired from Hon. Mr. Justice Loranger in 
effect without charge. The purchase price of $1000 being donated 
to the Association over a period of five years. 

LEGACIES AND BEQUESTS 


The sum of $100 was received from the estate of the late B.S.R. Watson. 


MEMORIAL COMMITTEE 
a ee ee 


This Committee under the Chairmanship of Mr. George Hodge, 
was appointed several years ago to arrange for proper re- 


cognition of former officers and leaders of the Association. 


Since its appointment in 1952 the Committee has dealt with 
the following matters: Memorials to the late Gerald W. Birks 
and John W. Beaton; memorial plaques honouring members of the 
Association killed in two world wars; recognition of Assoc. 
iation pioneers and later leaders; a booklet descriptive of 


the Chapel, 


During the year under review the Book of Remembrance was 
completed. Its contents included: 


Introduction 

Statement about the Chapel 

Record of the Dedication of the Chapel 

List of Presidents and General Secretaries 1851-1951 
List of Directors by periods, 1851-1951 

List of other Secretaries 

Memorial Resolutions 

Record of Legacies & Memorial Gifts, 1851-1951 
Reference to Association Members who gave their 
lives in two world wars. 


The Committee recommended that in future, material for the 


Book of Remembrance be prepared in ten year intervals. 


The Committee, having completed its assignment, was discharged. 


45. 


YHCA AND THE 


MONTREAL 


COMMUNITY 


The Montreal Y.M.C.A., co-existing 
with so many varied institutions in 
this city of mixed cultures has 

always enjoyed the best relations with 
many related institutions throughout 


Montreal, 


46. 


YoMeCoAe AND THE COMMUNITY 


Many organigations and community groups found the right 
atmosphere and the right facility in a Y.M.C.A. setting; 
TCA overseas pilots and stewardesses take crash and 
rescue practice at N.D.G, pool. Then there is the RCAF, 
the Salvation Army, the Montreal Police Department, 
Municipal Athletic Clubs, Children's Kindergarten and so 
the list goes to a total of 646 community groups meeting 
on 2418 occasions in branches throughout the city. 


Undoubtedly the biggest area of growing cooperative contact 
is with the school boards, With the steady decentraliging 

of program each year we find ourselves repeatedly in need of 
building facilities in new areas, The school boards have 
consistently extended their cooperation to Branch Boards.to 
make space available for club,craft, and gym programs. The 
scope for expanded community program is obvious, but two less 
obvious advantages are, that the taxpayers dollar investment 
in modern school facilities is getting a fuller use, and 
communities are acquiring the benefits of a Y.M.C.A. operation 
without the expense of capital expenditure for a new building. 


Community relationships find their expression in many ways; at 
Lachine, International, and Central branches, the facilities 

are opened to regular Sunday Church services of several religious 
congregations who were without their own churches. 


As a member of the Greater Montreal Council of Churches, the 
Council of Christian Education for the Province of Quebec, and 
the Montreal Council of Social Agencies, the Y.M.C.A. continued 
to assume a helpful role in the activities of these organizations. 


There is a newer.aspect of the Y.M.C.A. and its community relation- 
ships growing out of the steady increase in adult and parent in. 
volvment in program planning through area councils, This develop~ 
ment is more and more evident where extension activities have 

more fully developed. 


47o 


7auaA & «€UTCERE 
WORLD 
COMMUNITY 


In so many countries, broken as they are 

by the social upheavals of our times, the 
YoM.C.A. is one place where persons of 
different backgrounds can meet with common 
interests and mutual trust. The Near East, 
the Far East, the Middle Kast, Africa, South 
America.ooothe Y.M.C.A. is there... working 
with youths to help them find political am 
economic answers based upon the rights of 


individual freedom, 


48. 


WORLD SERVICE 


World Service enterprises is the export division of the 
Y.M.C.A.s of North America and the Montreal Association 
has been identified with this undertaking from the be- 
ginning. The product is trained Canadian and American 
Secretaries participating with know-how and good will, 
They are sent in response to urgent requests from areas 
where needs are most challenging to share in our common 
world-wide Christian Cause. 


For 69 years World Services has brought help to 42 of the 
76 countries where the "Y" now operates. In that time an 
estimated thirteen million of the Worlds youth have been 
active members, while millions more have been helped by 
boys clubs, schools, sanitation drives, physical education, 
hostels, rural reconstruction etc, 


From its inception in 1889 this extrodinary international 
service has been an integral part of the Montreal Association 
with uncalculable spiritual benefits accuring as a result of 
this willingness to share with people in other lands, 


Several years ago the Annual Report contained these prophetic 
words "We confidently believe the Young Men of this Continent 
will play no unimportant part in the history of the orient 
during the next fifty years", The record in Montreal has 

been one of strongly increasing support. During the year two 
men shared their knowledge and enthusiasm with our audiences 
on this important work. H. Arnold Ward, World Service 
Secretary of the National Council and M.G. Dharmarag, Secretary 
of the World Alliance for Southeast Asia. 


The 1958 World Services raised $1,580,000. 
Canada's total was $138,541.06. Our local results were as follows: 


49 


WORLD SERVICE continued: 


Metropolitan 16182 
Central 1926 
Sir George Williams College 3835 
Westmount 1237 
International 868 
Notre Dame de Grace 1919 
Southwestern 38h 
Lachine 419 
Montreal East 30 
Northeastern 79 
Northmount 612 | 
Lakeshore 231 
Camp Otoreke 1048 
Kamp Kanawana 485 
Camp Perrot 246 


BUILDINGS FOR BROTHERHOOD 


A special effort was launched during the year to provide for 
urgent building needs in strategic areas around the world. A 
total of 116 projects in 33 countries are called for to 
strengthen the world wide Y.M.C.A. at a cost of $16,000,000, 
U.S.A. and Canada will provide $5,840,000. "seed money" to 
encourage fund raising abroad, The Canadian decision to 
participate now was not taken until late in the year. Montreal 
accepted a quota of $80,000 and an intensive effort will be 
undertaken in the spring of 1959. 


WORLD'S ALLIANCE 


The World's Alliance, with headquaters in Geneva, Switzerland, 
has been steadily growing since six countries sent a total of 
99 young men as representatives to the first International 
Conference of Y.M.C,.A.'s in Paris in 1855. Over these years, 
despite wars, revolutions, economic upheavals and today's cold 
war tensions, the "Y" has steadily extended its world-wide 
coverage and has become a strong force for world brotherhood. 


50.6 


WORLD'S ALLIANCE ~ continued 


The Alliance enables the Association to open global channels 
for the exchange of ideas and techniques and for the training 
of personnel, It also enables the Association to speak with 
one voice at international levels in the realms of government, 
education and the United Nations. Approximately five percent 
of World Service receipts are allocated for maintenance of the 
Alliance. 


In organigation, the Alliance is a federation of national 
movements of Y.M.C.A.'s3 for example the National Council of 
YoM.C.Ao's of Canada is one national movement which belongs; 
in other cases, several countries my be in one movement, as 
with the South American which has eight nations, or the 
British with England, Wales and Ireland. 


51. 


NATIONAL COUNCIL 


The National Council of Y.M.C.A.'s continued its helpful 
relationship to our Association during 1955. Several members 
of their staff made unhurried visits to our branches. During 
the year Dr. R.S. Hosking retired, after 20 years as General 
Secretary of the Council. He was succeeded by Leslie Vipond, 
formerly Personnel Secretary. 


A Training Workshop conducted by the National Council was 
attended by 3 senior members of the Montreal staff. 


Nineteen members of the Montreal Association, representing 
almost every branch, participated in the National Council 
Annual Meeting in Toronto, 


The bieannual Canadian Y,M.C.A. Secretarial Summer Conference 
was held at Geneva Park, Lake Couchiching, Ontario, during August. 
Two members of the Montreal staff were in attendance. 


The following members of the Montreal Association are members 
of the National Council of Y.M.C.A.s. 


WR. Austen 

H. Brunnell 
D.G,. Currie 
G.eC. Donaldson 
JoB. Frosst 
W.H. Grady 
E.L. Hamilton 
GoM. Hobart 

Ge Hodge 

F.G. Hubbard 
Vo Hryhorchuk 
RoR. Johnson 
T.D. Lewis 
deRs Logan 
TED McKeown 
J.B. McNicoll 
R.O. McMurtry 
C. Minshull 

F, Peterson 
J.M, Pritchard 


De Ross 

E. Ryan 

AE. Sargent 
AoR. Seaman 

CoD. Shortt 

Wo Skea 

Dr. CoH. Skitch 
CoA. Smith 

F.V. Stone 
LeRenitait 

Dr. Jodo Thomson 
Jed. Thornton 
L.W. Townsend 
R.C. Vaughan 
F.B. Walls 

W. Warner 

C.W. Webster 
Dr.D.oJ. Wilson 
NeP. Woods (deceased) 


52. 


PERSONNEL 


This Association of like 

motivated people through its 

whole structure of Boards, Committees 

and Voluntary leaders, provides a 

medium for mutual helpfulness in Christian 
terms for youngsters, teenagers, and 

men and women, 

In this massive whole we see the 

true context of the word Association 

and the true context of the 


phrase mutual helpfulness, 


53 


PERSONNEL 
mica ee ea LT 


As the Y.M.C.A. of Montreal continued to expand into new 
areas in 1958, more persons became involved in its work. 
Many acted on boards and committees, others gave volunteer 
leadership in program as advisors and counsellors, while 
many employed personnel were required for building and 
equipment maintenance, clerical work, food ami residence 
service, instruction in College and Schools, and to work 
with committees and volunteers in the administration and 
program of the Association. 


BOARDS AND COMMITTEES 


The affairs of the Association were administered by the 
Metropolitan Board of Directors, Branch Boards of Management, 
and committees related to the various departments and sections 
of its work. During the year 2,816 persons were active on 
boards and committees. 


VOLUNTEER LEADERS 


Many thousands of hours of volunteer leadership were given by 
people who acted as advisors, leaders, instructors and coun- 
sellors in many crafts, interest groups, clubs and camping 
programs, The total number of 2423 people were involved in 
this way during 1958. 


STAFF 


During the year there were 398 fulltime employees, while 451 
were employed on a part-time basis, Included in the parttime 
personnel were 32 Fellowship students from various parts of 
Canada, who attended Sir George Williams College and did 
program work as part of their preparation for Y.M.C.A. 
Secretaryship. 


She 


METROPOLITAN OFFICERS 
—. 


AND 
BOARD MEMBERS 


OFFICERS 


JoW. McConnell - Honorary President 
George M. Hobart - President 

O.B. Thornton = lst Vice-President 
Colin W. Webster ~ 2nd Vice-President 
He Roy Crabtree ~ 3rd Vice=President 
JoRe logan » Honorary Treasurer 
James H, Webb ~ Honorary Secretary 


DIRECTORS 


D.S. Abbott 

E.R. Alexander 
Robert D. Armstrong 
Jodol's Bancroft 

A. Turner Bone 
Joseph M. Breen 
LoHoT. Clegg 

W. Norman Clelland 
C. Leslie Copland 
A.H. Cowie 

Jo. Crawford 

R.A. Emerson 

Hon. GB. Foster, Q.C. 
John Bo Frosst 

JoA. Fuller 

GeARe Hart 

WoN. Hall 

R.E. Heartz 

George Hodge 

Jo0S,. Kendrick 


BRANCH CHATRMEN 


Central - G.D. Birks 


WeS. Kirkpatrick 
Herbert H,. Lank 
T. Denton Lewis 
W.F. Macklaier, Q.C. 
H.M. Mawhinney 
JoD. McKeown 

TR. McLagan 

S.C. Norsworthy 
JoM, Pritchard 
B.W, Roberts 
Howard I, Ross 
AE. Sargent 

KoM. Sedgewick 

H. Greville Smith 
Irving R. Tait 

W. Tailor-Bailey 
L.W. Townsend 
F.B. Walls 

MN, Walter 

Frank A. Whittall 


Lachine » J. Breckenridge 


International - William Tetley 
Lakeshore ~ Ralph R. Johnson Westmount - E.L. Hamilton . 
Montreal Hast = Geo, T, Jones Southwestern = W.B. Charlton 
Northeastern — W. Skea Sir George = B.W. Roberts 
Northmount = C.E, Frost Williams College 


55-6 


Notre Dame de Grace ~ F.M. Adams 


° 


METROPOLITAN OFFICERS @ continued 
aA EI II aa a a a ae a 


AND 
BOARD MEMBERS 


ADVISORY BOARD 
T. Ho Atkinson Le Jo Belnap 
Henry G Birks Go Wo Bourke 
Arthur H. Campbell Murray Ro Chipman 
Jo Po Copland Jo Ha Davey 
Se Ge Dobson Vo Mp Drury 
George V. Ferguson Be Co Gardner 
Ge Bo Gordon Ho Jo Hannaford 
Ro Do Harkness Ro Ao Co Henry 
George Ro Hodgson Re Co Holden, Q. Co 
We He Howard , Qe Co As Co Jensen 
Frederick Johnson — Ee Ao Leslie 
A. Wesley Mason Jp Go McConnell . 
Jo We. McConnell Co Me McEwen, Air Vice-Marshal, CB,.MC, 
Ao Wo McMaster DFC & Bar 
Re Oo McMurtry A» Le Paterson 
Fo Re Phelan, Major-General Re Eo Powell 
CB, DSO, MC, vD We We Southan 
Ro E. Stavert Ress 0. Stevenson 
Guy Tombs Wo Ke Trower 
Re Co Vaughan ‘i Ao Be Walford, Major. General, CB, CBE, 
George A. Walker, Qo Co MM, ED 


D. Ao Whittaker Be Co Wood 


NOMINATING COMMITTEE 

The Report of the Nominating Cichinss Aes to the Annual Meeting 
of the Young Men's Christian Association of Montreal 

Monday, April 20th, 1959 


Mr. President: 
Your Committee, having carried out its duties in accordance with 
the Constitution, hereby nominates the following active members 


to become Directors of the Association: 


C. Leslie Copland J.D. McKeown 
R.A. Emerson B.W. Roberts 
JoA. Fuller - Howard I. Ross 
WN. Hall 0.B, Thornton 
RoE. Hearta L.W. Townsend 
JoSo Kendrick F.B. Walls 

HoH. Lank Colin W. Webster 
doa Logan 


Your Committee also wishes to report that at the last meeting 
of the Metropolitan Board of Directors, the following were 
elected members of the Advisory Board: 


T.H, Atkinson EoA. Leslie R.O. McMurtry 

GoW. Bourke : A. Wesley Mason Major-General Phelan 
Murray R. Chipman JeG. McConnell Guy Tombs 

S.G.e Dobson Air Vice-Marshall McEwen Major-General Walford 
George V. Ferguson A.W. McMaster Eel. Wood 

RAC. Henry 


Respectfully submitted, 


A. Turner Bone = Chairman 
H.M. Mawhinney 

I.R. Tait 

O.N.H. Owens 

RD. Davies 

R.B. Winsor 


DT6 


The following appointments took place among the employed 
officers during the year: 


ooo 


coo 


ooo 


@o0o 


ooe 


ooo 


ooo 


ooo 


o0@ 


o¢o 


o@eo 


ooo 


John Stewart was appointed Assistant Membership 
Secretary at Central Branch. 


David Carson was appointed Assistant Adult Program 
Secretary at Central Branch succeeding Gilbert Dodge 
who entered the teaching profession, 


Douglas Masson was appointed Boys Work Secretary at 
Central Branch succeeding Allenby Moss who became 
General Secretary of the Welland Ont. Y.M.C.A. 


Joseph Hood was appointed Assistant Physical Director 
succeeding Charles de Heck who entered the teaching 
profession. 


E.A. Lowe succeeded EJ. Taylor as Executive Secretary 
at International Branch who retired. 


Victor Bryant became Program Secretary at International 
Branch following Fred Haack, who entered the teaching 
field. 


Reginald Gates became Assistant Secretary of the Lachine 
Branch succeeding Herbert Ellington who returned to College. 


Glenn Gray was appointed Assistant Secretary at the 
Lakeshore Branch. 


Harry Gordon became Assistant Secretary at the Northmount 
Branch following David Daniels who moved to the Hamilton 
Ont. Association. 


Mrs. Carol Wright was appointed Women and Girls Physical 
Director at N.D.G. Branch succeeding Mrs. Barbara Rogers. 


William Gerhardt was appointed Extension Secretary at N.D.G. 
Branch. 


Charles Ancrum, Sterling Mair and Ivan Fraser were appointed 

to the staff of the Southwestern Branch succeeding D. Inslay 

who returned to College,Robert Butler who returned to College 
and Sidney Gammon who moved to Woodstock Ont. Y.M.C.A. 


John Ray became Physical Director at the Westmount Branch 
following Lou Waller who became Executive Director of the 
Parks and Playgrounds Association. 58 


eoo William Johnstone was appointed Administrative 
Assistant in the College with special relation- 
ship to evening students, 


ooo Hedley G. Dimock was appointed Secretary for Training 
and Staff Development succeeding Cameron Gorrie who 
became General Secretary of the Peterborough Ont. YMCA. 


eoe Gerald Wright was appointed Metropolitan Public Relations 
Secretery succeeding Robert W. Butler. 


59 


OBITUARY 
— ee 


We record with sorrow the passing of a number of friends of 


the Association . 


CeK, Calhoun - former YMCA Secretary, Montreal and U.S.A. points. 

D.C. Coleman = member of Advisory Board 

Hone CoA. Dunning ~ member of Advisory Board 

Hod. Humphrey - member of Advisory Board and actively related to 
the National Council for many years. 

Wed. Holliday = former Secretary, War Servicés ami Montreal, 

N.P. Woods ~ member of Notre Dame de Grace Board since its 


organization. 


Dr. B.S. Jane » member of Notre Dame de Grace Board. 
VoL. Doleman — Sir George Williams College Staff 

W. Solowicz =~ Sir George Williams College Staff 
H.H. Worsfold - Sir George Williams College Staff 
W.H. Black = Sir George Williams College Staff 


JoH. Armitage 
Dr. J.C. Armour 
ToH. Atkinson 
AoK. Austen 
JoA. Bain 

John Bassett 
SoM. Berkowits 
ReMoH. du Boyce 
R.A. Brock 

Q.B. Burley 
H.F. Bush 

Jo. Chandler 
JoEe Chipchase 
E.D. Christmas 
A.A. Dalgell 
H.G, Dawson 
W.B. Debbage 
L.C. Drummond 
Leo Feldman 
GoM. Finlayson 
Eligabeth Fisher 
Brigo H. Gault 
E. Gage 


Dr. Ge Hall 

Dr. GE. Hodge 

Je Hone 

C. Johnson 

CoA. Kirkgaard 
C.W. Leslie 

R. Lunn 

J.W. McCammon 
COL; Dette McDougall 
Major F.T. McKean 
Wod. McKenna 

Jo Marjoribanks 
A. Pollock 

N.A. Prentice 

G. McT. Pyke 

L.J, Seidensticker 
S. Staniforth 
D.S. Thomson 
Mrs. N.R. Timmins 
GM. Todd 

P.R. Walters 

ToL. Watson 

Je Wright 


60. 


APPRECIATION 
ee eee ee 


It is never possible to adequately express appreciation to 
the many thousands of individuals and organizations who con- 
tribute each year to the work of the Y.M.C.A., but we do 
wish to record the following acknowledgements: 


eeo TO the members of the Board and Committees who gave 
guidance and counsel to the work of the Association 
during the year. 


e+e To the hundreds of volunteer advisors,leaders and 
counsellors who played such an important part in 
group,club and camp programs. 


eco To the many individuals and Corporations whose generous 
financial assistance has made the year's work possible, 


eoo To press,radio and television for the help they have 
given in interpreting the work of the Association to the 
Community. 


coo To the individual Ministers and Churches in the Greater 
Montreal area; the Greater Montreal Council of Churches 
and the Council of Christian Hducation of the Province 
of Quebec with whom we have so much in common. 


eco To the Protestant School Board for making available school 
gymnasiums, offices and club room space to supplement our 
own building facilities. 


eoo To Service Clubs for their interest and support, 
eco TO the Young Women's Christian Association and the Young 
Men's and Young Women's Hebrew Associations and the Quebec 


Federation of Youth Organizations and the Montreal Council 
of Social Agencies, 


él. 


THE YEAR 


IN 


STATISTICS 


Figures are meaningful only when considered as 
persons who are playing and learning together 
in a Christian environment. Character is 
influenced by association with like.minded 
people...during 1958 the gross attendance at 


all Y programs was over 5,300,000 people. 


62. 


STATISTICAL RECORD FOR 1958 ENROLLMENT ATTENDANCE 
VOLUNTEER SERVICE 


Group Leaders 24,23 
On Boards,Committees and Councils 2816 17,057 


HEALTH AND PHYSICAL FITNESS 


Gymnasium Activities 3678 67,019 
Swimming Classes 5097 189,530 
Swimming Tests & Lessons 11,003 
No, of Different Individuals Taught to Swim 1842 

Teams,Leagues,Rinks and Playfields 3149 58,048 
Athletic Events 189, 237 


GROUPS AND CLUBS «= 1407 


Purpose and Fellowship Clubs 
Interest-Groups and Classes 27,073 500, 543 


INFORMAL EDUCATION 


Crafts and Hobbies 1516 34.5469 
Lectures,Forums and Study Groups 12,566 
Motion Pictures and Television 21,912 
Indoors and Outdoors 

Libraries, Book Circulation 111,623 


SOCIAL RECREATION 


Dances,Parties and Social Affairs 68,441 
Dramatics and Musical Events 4.602 
Trips,Outings, Etc. 25985 
RELIGIOUS EDUCATION 
Meetings, Study Groups, Chapel 75532 
CITY DAY CAMPS 
ll 1691 36,033 


63. 


STATISTICAL RECORD FOR 1958 continued. 


CAMPS Campers Camper Days ENROLLMENT ATTENDANCE 
Boys 721 14,294 

Men 766 8,358 (&women) 

Girls 96 1,344 

Women 720 @ - ~ = (see above) 

Leaders 140 8,770 

Total Campers Enrollment 2443 

Total Camper Days 32,766 


PERSONAL SERVICES 


Counselling and Interviews 759295 
Employment Placements 678 

Residence Placements 174,150 
Food Services 282,250 


FORMAL EDUCATION 

Sir George Williams College and Schools 

No, of Students 12,820 = No. of Classes 910 

No, of Student Class Hours 35 358,597 
COMMUNITY SERVICE 

No. of Outside Organizations Using "Y" Facilities 646 

No, of Times 2418 6h 7h9 
GROSS ATTENDANCE 


Clubs,Groups Program Events and Personal Services: 5 5320,407 


6h. 


avove"s; TORS' REPORT 


The Young Men's Christian Association of Montreal, 
Montreal, Que. 

We have examined the Balance Sheet of The Young Men's 
Christian Association of Montreal as at December 31, 1958 and the 
related Statement of Income and Expenditure for the year ended that 
date. In connection therewith we made a test examination of the books 
of account and financial records of the Metropolitan Office and of the 
reports from the branches and from the Residence Building but we did 
not make a detailed audit of the transactions of the Association for the 
year. We have received all the information and explanations we have 
required, 

In our opinion, based on the examination made, the attached 
Balance Sheet and related Statement of Income and Expenditure correctly 
set forth the financial position of the Association as at December 31, 1958 
and the results of its operations for the year ended on that date, accord. 
ing to the best of our information and the explanations given to us and 


as shown by the accounting records examined by us. 


P.S. Ross & Sons 
Chartered Accountants 


Montreal, Que. 
April 16, 1959. 


65¢ 


with comparative figures for the year 195 


Incomes 


gir George Williams College 
pevenue from tuition fees and receipts 
from other sources including Provincial 
grant of $100,000 


General Programme Income 

Receipts from recreational departiionts 
and other programme activities, 
including camps 


Service Features Income 
Revenue from residence rooms, receipts 
from food and other service features 


World Service 
Subscriptions to World Service 


Membership Fees Collected 


Subseription Income 
Contribution from corporations and 
individuals 


Endowment Fund Income 
(includes interest charged to Sir George 
Williams College on monies advanced 
from endowment funds to construct 
Auditorium) 


Miscellaneous Income 
Receipts from other sources not 
detailed above including interest 
on temporary surplus funds 


“68s of expenditure over income for the year 
tnded December 31, transferred to surplus 


qué YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 
eee eT Tat tT Tae ve Pl ie Sir” de tea 


1958 
$1,402,379. 


208,578. 


47352586 


29, 500, 


192,403. 


2375771. 


21,193. 


255 2h6.0 


30,772. 36 
$2,621,104. 00 


82 


59 


77 


25 


49 


72 


gTATEMENT OF INCOME AND EXPENDITURE FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1958 


1957 
$1,195,239. 35 


210,192. 64 


507,668. 12 


29,700. 00 


181,631. 56 


221,606. 15 


21,650. 98 


11,531. 46 


8756 80 
$2.380,096. 06 


666 


THE YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 


STATEMENT OF INCOME AND EXPENDITURE FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1958 


with comparative figures for the ar 19 
Expenditure 


Educational 
Expenditure for the Sir George Williams College 
educational work including; a proportion of the 
cost of operating the space occupied in the 
Drummond-Stanley Building, provision for 
educational development of $76,000 and provision 
for major repairs and replacements of $50,000 


General Programme 
Expenditure which cannot be directly allocated to 
divisions representing general programme of branches 
including recreational departments and camps 


Service Features 
Direct expenditure for operation of residence 
rooms, food services and other service features 


World Services: Remittance 


General Administration 
Expenses of centralized accounting and auditing 
of the branches of the Association metropolitan 
programme and business administration, and 
contribution to National Council for general 
promotion of Y.M.C.A. activities throughout 
Canada 


Branch Administration 
Expenditure for desk and general supervision of 
branch activities 


Boys' Division 
Direct expenditure for the boys! division programme 


Other Divisions 
Direct expenditure for the young men's, girls', 
ladies! and senior men's division programme 


Membership Promotion 
Advertising of Y.M.C.A. activities and secretarial and 
clerical expense of interviewing prospective 
members, asSimilating new members and following 
up renewal of old memberships 


Plant 
Rental for premises not owned, expenditure for 
maintenance, heat, light, taxes and insurance 
for building owned by Association and provision 
for major repairs and renewals of $50,000 


1958 
$1,456,407. 10 


320,861. Oh 


230,369. O09 


295500. 00 
979797¢ 77 


147,096. 70 


30,8056 41 


26,823. 99 


175394. 29 


264,048. 61 


$2,621,104. 00 


1957 
$1,250,076. 


277,408. 


23595120 


29,700. 
111,103, 


143,280. 


30,748. 


275952. 


15,119. 


259 513k. 


38 


51 


37 


00 
09 


99 


83 


THe YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 
BALANCE SHEET AS AT DECEMBER 31, 1958 
es ye 


ASSETS. 1958 
Assets: 

pand, buildings and furnishings 
Drummond and Stanley Streets $4,964,738. 2h 
Westmount Branch 1057660. 73 
International Branch 100,542. 50 
Southwestern Branch 129,679. 28 
Notre Dame de Grace Branch 417,606. 67 
Lachine Branch 149,497. 42 
Northmount Branch 151,919. 90 
Kamp Kanawana 91,850. 75 
Camp Otoreke 75,687. 65 
Camp Perrot 46,335. 91 
Miscellaneous ~ net 594530 99 


$6,238,973. Oh 


Assets held for endowment funds: 
Investment securities 


Due from General Fund 434,773. 06 
Accrued interest on investments 1,699. 50 


$ 436,472. 56 
Assets held for special funds: 


_ Investment securities 4,050. 00 
Accrued interest on investments 80. 00 
Due from general fund 6,805. 91 


> 10,935. 91 
Deferred charges: 


_ Insurance, taxes and sundry expenses 25,66h. 65 
Current assets: 
»Cash on hand and in bank 233,908. 47 
Guaranteed deposits 900,900. 00 
Accounts receivable 
Less: Reserve for doubtful accounts 4355359. 38 
Due from endowment fund 6,857. 18 
Inventory of books, foodstuffs and 
Sundry supplies 111,772. 85 
_1,687,897. 88 


$ 8,399,9bh. Ob 


1957 


$4,963,134. 48 
105,660. 73 
100,542. 50 
213,668, 14 
417,449. 32 
1495340. 07 
151, 762.°.55 

83,687, 39 
75687. 65 
4653350 91 


7,222. 00 
$6, 31h, 491 ° Th 


8,975. 57 
419,089. 81 


$ 428,065. 38 


$ 10,861, 02 
23,315. 80 


222,118. 77 
550,509. 59 


349 ’ 726 ° 38 


96,916. 35 


1,219,271. 09 
$ 7,996,005. 02 


RE 


68. 


THE YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 


BALANCE SHEET AS AT DECEMBER 31, 1958 (Cont'd) 


LIABILITIES 1958 
Capital: 

Capital accounts per statement 9559655995. 02 
Deficit: 

Surplus as at January 1, 1958 $ 9,675. 80 

Deficit for the year emied December 31, 

1958 as shown by statement attached 0,772. 36 

21,096. 5 


5s9hh, 898. 46 


Endowment Funds -~ 
Capital accounts 
Net profit on sale of investment 
securities to date 


364,425. 46 
65,189. 92 
429,615. 38 
6,857. 18 

5 436,472. 56 


6,381,371. 62 


Due to general funds 


Reserve for major.repairs and replacements 
General 
Educational 


676,778. 49 


50,000. 00 
72657786 49 


Reserve for educational development 76,000. 00 

Special funds: 
Sir George Williams College scholarship funds 10,300, 49 
Other 635. 42 
10,9355 91 


Current liabilities: 


Accounts payable and accrued charges 245,568. 00 


Sundry deposits 155591. 99 
Due to special funds 6,805. 91 
Unearned income- 
Prepaid tuition 71553830 bb 
Prepaid room rents and camp fees 10,368. 50 
Financial campaign of November, 1958 725,751. 9h 
Receipts carried forward to period 
subsequent to December 31, 1958 211,140, 78 


$1, 204,858, 62 


$85399,9h4h. Ob 
(1958) The Association is committed to 
further payments amounting to $84,252 
in connection with the construction of 
the new building for the Southwestern 
Branch. 


1957 


$5,405,330. 80 


10,551. 60 

8 ° 80 
9,675. 80 
55415,006. 60 


362,875. 46 
65,189. 92 


53 843,074.98 


722,907. 12 


ee ene 


722,907. 12 


9,906. 29 
ho 
10,861. 0 


1735403. 38 
12,511. 11 
425,820. 83 
5925597. 75 
8,393. 50 
00, 991. 25 


206438. 33 
$1 419,164. 90 
$ 7,996, 005. 02 


69% 


