YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 


ANNUAL REPORT 1961 


ONE HUNDRED AND TENTH YEAR 


ih 
1 


ve 


FOR WAR O 


The Board of Directors takes pleasure 
in submitting the Annual Report of 
The Young Men's Christian Association 
of Montreal for the year ending Dec- 
ember 4lst, I96I1, in accordance with 


the requirements of the constitution. 


This report covers matters of general 
interest affecting the Montreal Assoc- 
iation as a whole. Detailed reports 

of all eleven branches, including Sir 
George Williams University and Schools, 
have been submitted and approved at 
their respective meetings and are in- 


cluded in the records of each branch. 


THE YOUNG MEN'S 
CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION 


OF MONTREAL 


METROPOLITAN OFFICES 
Itt DRUMMOND STREET 


Downtown Branch Northmount Branch 

ll! Drummond Street 1155 Rochon Street 
International Branch Notre Dame de Grace Branch 
5550 Park Avenue 335 Hampton Avenue 
Lachine-Dorval Branch Southwestern Branch 

3955 Provost Street 7105 La Salle Boulevard 
Lakeshore Branch Westmount Branch 

2h6a Lakeshore Road 4585 Sherbrooke Street West 


Eastern Communities 
5550 Park Avenue 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY 
1145 DRUMMOND STREET 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS SCHOOLS 
Il! DRUMMOND STREET 


Evening High School School of Art 
Business School School of Retailing 
Elementary School 


CAMPS 
Kamp Kanawana Camp Otoreke 
St. Sauveur, Quebec St. Adolphe de Howard, Quebec 
Voyageurs de la Verendrye YMCA Ski Lodge 
La Verendrye Park, Quebec Christieville, Quebec 


ee 


L“n 0 6 Am PAGE 


HIGHLIGHTS OF 1961 h 
MEMBERSHIP 6 
BOYS AND GIRLS 7 
TEENS 8 
YOUNG ADULTS 9 
PHYSICAL 12 
CAMPS 13 
SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY 15 
SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS SCHOOLS 19 
RESIDENCE SERVICES 21 
PERSONAL COUNSELLING 22 
FINANCE AND PROPERTY 23 
WORLD SERVICE 25 
PERSONNEL 28 
METROPOLITAN OFFICERS 30 
OBITUARY 33 
APPRECIATION 3), 
STATISTICAL REVIEW 35 


PiecHLIGHTS OF 1961 


PROGRAM PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT 


Guide Lines to the Sixties, the report of the Planning Com- 
mittee, approved by the Board of Directors in 1960 continued 
to be the frame of reference for the various boards and com- 
mittees. Encouraging progress can be reported. 


A "self-study" of five branches was undertaken with the as- 
sistance and guidance of Henry C. Labatte of the National 
Coumoih sita ff. 


The Camp Research Project of 1960 provided data and experi- 
ence that was applicable to eight different segments of the 
program during I96l. 


MEMBERSHIP 


The number of different persons who_were members at the end 
of 1961 reached a new high of 27,698. 


HI1-Y CLUB PROGRAM 


Hi-Y clubs for both girls and boys continued to expand. A 
second full-time staff person related to the 'Yt was added 
to the Notre Dame de Grace Branch and more staff time was 
assigned to this program in four other branches. The num- 
ber of clubs increased to 72 with 1,000 high school boys and 
girls enrolled. Plans are already under way to expand this 
number in the spring of 1962. 


PHYSICAL AND HEALTH EDUCATION 


The physical and health education program was greatly streng- 
thened by the appointment of experienced staff in the fall of 
1961, in all building branches. For the first time in sev- 
eral years this part of the program was in the hands of 
trained personnel. The effect of this will no doubt be felt 
as we enter into the 1962 program year. 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY AND SCHOOLS 


Sir George Williams University and Schools enrollment rose 
to a new high of 16,385 students during the winter and sum- 
mer terms. In spite of the addition of rented classroom 
space, it was not possible to accept all those who applied 
for admission. A major decision was made to develop added 
facilities to enable the University to expand the day divi- 
sion to 5,000 students and the evening to 12,000 students 
by 1970. A site of approximately 53,000 square feet north 
of Burnside Street between Bishop and McKay was purchased. 


VOLUNTEER LEADERSHIP 


Leadership training methods and procedures were further re- 
fined and extended. Club and group officers, volunteer 
club advisors, and staff participated in training programs 
appropriate to these different groupings. There were |,8h5 
voluntary leaders serving during the year in all branches 
and camps. 


DOWNTOWN RESIDENCE 


The sixth floor residence of the Drummond Street building 
was renovated and modernized thus providing a new high stan- 
dard of YMCA accommodation for young men. 


INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE MEETS IN MONTREAL 


The International Committee Annual Plenary Meeting was held 
in Montreal in September. The Montreal Association announ- 
ced to this meeting that their World Service goal of $35,750 
had been reached and the cash turned in. At the same time 
$71,271 of the special Buildings for Brotherhood Fund were 
reported. The Montreal objective was $80,000 to be achieved 
over 1961 and 1962. 


ADULT INFORMAL EDUCATION 


Adult Informal Education Courses continued to expand in num- 
ber and in variety. 


PewseR SH i] P 


The year end showed a total of 27,698 members enrol- 
led. In addition there were FP, 2h: registered non- 
members participating in various specific activities 
during the year, while a total of 4,)3% campers were 
enrolled. This included 1809 resident campers and 
1,62) in summer day camps. Different individual mem- 
bers in 1961 reached a total of 6,670 with the cam- 
pers included. The figures below do not include camp 
enroliment or registered non-members. 


Different Members Total at 


Membership by Branches During the Year Dec. 31/61 
Central 10,991 oer 
Lakeshore Bai 2,162 
International 2,615 1, O43 
Notre Dame de Grace 3, th 1,630 
Northmount 1,30 962 
Lachine-Dorval |, 685 932 
Westmount I,9tl 889 
Southwestern ole UE 
Eastern Communities 1,07) 43 
Sir George Williams University 
and Sir George Williams Schools 16, 835 12,653 
TOTAL 13, 147 27, 698 
By Sex 
Male 19,278 
Female Bie 
By Age Per Cent By Age Per Cent 
Under 12 3,297 12.0 25 - 29 3,796 13.7 
I2 - th 1, 106 ).0 30 - 34 2,501 9.0 
re = We 3,031 10-9 35 & Up 32319 12.5 
18 - 2h 9,855 35.6 Unknown 93 2.5 


AN D G 1 Rakis 


In this category falls activities for boys and girls 
9 - Ih years of age. In 1961 h,)0% (16%) of the total 
membership was included in this age group. 


What Children Need... 


Healthy YMCA programs for this age group include spe- 
cial interest and skill groups where the children may 
learn to handle new materials and activities; large- 
group experiences, with some rules and regulations; 
small-group activity with free selection of goals and 
a great deal of spontaneous, creative program; and 
quiet times when a child may read a book, engage in 
individual hobbies, or just think things through. 


What Childrem Do «. . 


Hockey teams, baseball, football, floor hockey, basket- 
ball, general gym classes, and swim instruction were 
a big part of the general junior program in branches. 


The interest of many youngsters is astounding. Rec- 
reation program certainly cannot be excluded... but 
they are equally eager for creative expression, museum 
trips, and art exhibits. Individual craffs, hobbies, 
and dramatics absorb many youngsters. 


Bays ‘and Girls Lewecto eJeln) al ub’ 2! a>. 


Friendship clubs continue to play a major part in the 
children's activities. Groups of boys or gir!s from 


9 - 12 meet under the guidance of a volunteer leader 
inca «home, a scheo bphor hte -'Y' ss Each sel eb, “wager hts 
own elected officers, plans programs of special interest 


to its members. 


In addition to the small group activities, clubs come 
together on joint projects such as Penny Carnival, Eas- 
ter and Christmas baskets for "shut-ins", bean fead 
suppers, bus trips, Father and Son or Mother and Daugh- 
ter Banquets, and team competitions. 


BOYS AND GIRLS CLUBS - MONTREAL YMCA 1961 


Number of 
Branch Clubs Club Members 


Notre Dame de Grace 15 120 
International 2 16 
Lachine-Dorval 17 166 
Nor thmount 3h 3th 
Westmount | 10 
Eastern Communities 6 73 
Southwestern as 225 
TOTAL 78 722 


EEN 


In keeping with the recommendations of the 1959-60 
Planning Committee Report, the emphasis in teen pro- 
gram, throughout 1961 has continued to be directed 
to development of close-knit friendship groups and 
the training of leadership within the groups them- 
selves. 


Drawing on the information collected for the White 
House Conference on Children and Youth, the central 
problems of the adolescent is to clarify who he is 
and what his role in society is to be. This is typi- 
fied by the usual process of questioning the values, 
attitudes, and behaviour of earlier years. 


The 'Y' is, perhaps, most able to serve teenagers by 
helping them establish a clear idea of what and who 
they are, and work out their Values for Living, 
through guided peer group experiences. The groups 
most effective for promoting teenage growth are co- 
hesive groups based on friendships where each person 
can be known and trusted as an individual. 


Notre Dame de Grace, Southwestern, Lachine-Dorval, 
Northmount, and International Branches helped the of- 
ficers of teen clubs organize discussions and workshops 
on the principles and methods of how to be a good club 
president, treasurer, or other officer. 


Clubs Develop in Several Community Branches 


Teenagers have enthusiastically taken hold to organize 
their own club programs to set up club study projects 
on community affairs, education, study habits, and so 
on. Club officers have assembled for programs of of- 
ficers and leadership training to give them better cap- 
abilities on their present club role and ideas to carry 
into adulthood. 


Several Kinds of Teen Clubs 


In each branch, club formation has taken several forms, 
each an answer to the needs of particular feen groups 
and the particular community. Most are boys and girls 
separately; some are a mixture of school and working 
youths; some are exclusively one or the other. In this 
teen category in I96I there were 72 clubs operating with 
a total enrollment of exactly !000. 


Social Recreation for Teenagers 


Club program is but one aspect of teen activities. To- 
tal membership in this senior teen group was 1,756 at 
the end of the year excluding those enrolled in the 
University and Schools which would add another 1,275. 
Throughout 1961 attendance at teen dances, parties, 
social events, etc. ran to )7,hh9. 


Physical Fitness for Teenagers 
A further aspect of feen program is the physical acti- 
vities which take a great part of their energy... 


archery, badminton, gymnastics, teams, figure-skating, 
bowling, basketball, swimming, hockey, and softball. 


yOu NG AD U de Wis 


ADULT PROGRAM 


This section of the report has reference to non-physi- 
cal program for adult members of the Association, bet- 
ween the ages of 18 and 25. Of the total membership, 
9,855 (35. 6%) falls within this age group. 


-9 - 


This is by far the largest single age groups served 
by The *Y' in Montreal. The Evening High School, 
Elementary School, Schoo! of Retailing, Business 
School, and University account for 6,27), members 
alone, being served with vitally-needed formal edu- 
cation programs at all levels and supplemented with 
a vast extra-curricular student government and club 
program. 


In the branches an additional 4,581 members are 
served. Adult program committees and councils have 
continued to take more responsibility for their own 
activities. For these kind of persons the great need 
is to find within the YMCA a setting in which their 
educational background can be employed in creative 
expression and new intellectual challenge. 


Adult Education Courses 


At Lakeshore, Central, Westmount, Lachine, Northmount, 
Notre Dame de Grace branches, there have been informa] 
education courses offered on specific subjects. These 
have been designed to provide quality instruction under 
competent leadership, and have dealt with subjects ran- 
ging from French Conversation to Contract Bridge. 


international Branch continued to provide English lang- 
uage courses for New Canadians and others ... In recent 
years courses have been overhauled, new language lab 
teaching materials purchased, and the whole education 
project largely upgraded in quality. 


For Adults With Hobby Interests ... 


Under the general heading of 'hobbies', for the leisure 
available to adults, it can be reported that there has 
been an increased attendance in classes and clubs in 
such interests as: oi! painting, photography, leather- 
craft, ceramics, smocking, and millinery. 


A variety of clubs, self-governing in nature, but cen- 
tered around a common interest, included camera club, 
outing club, glee club, music appreciation, film club, 
table tennis club.- 


SENVOR, SERVIGE CLUBS 
"Y's Ments Clubs 


This is the senior ments service club of the YMCA of 
which there are three duly chartered clubs in the Mont- 


real Association -- The Verdun 'Y's Men's Club, the 
Notre Dame de Grace Club, and the newly-formed club at 
Central. 


Besides the opportunity for individual growth and dev- 
elopment, these clubs contribute much by way of finan- 
cial assistance and leadership to the program of fhe 
YMCA members. 


They have raised funds for World Service, given time 
to committees within their branches, leadership to 
clubs and activities for youngsters, and taken on im- 
portant assignments in the Annual Finance Campaign. 


The Foremen's Club 


This club is for foremen and supervisors in industry. 
It is Canada's largest such club having a membership 
of 511 representing 82 industrial firms in the Mont- 
real area. The club held monthly meetings with prom- 
inent guest speakers from Canada and the United States 
addressing them on topics related to problems of mod- 
ern business management and supervision. The club 
published its own bulletin, operated a formal education 
program of courses on management problems, and conduc- 
ted other projects related to the advancement of fore- 
manship, such as management development clinics, pub- 
lic speaking, safety campaigns, industrial exhibits, 
and. Tours. 


OTOREKE SUMMER LODGE FOR ADULTS 


A unique extension of YMCA adult program is fhe summer 
lodge near St. Adolphe de Howard in the Laurentians. 
Operated by a separate Otoreke Camp Committee, fhis 
resident lodge provides a summer Laurentian setting 
for young men and women to come together in an atmos- 
phere of leisurely fellowship. 


H 


Complete facilities are available for canoeing, sail- 
ing, volleyball, fishing, swimming, or just plain laz- 
ing in the hof sun. Attendance in the June Ist to 
September 7th period was 1,290 young adult men and 
women for a total of 7,87! camper days. 


CHRISTIEVILLE SKI CODGE 


Y 


This lodge is the winter camp for many of the Otoreke 
guests who have formed an Otoreke Ski Club at Chris- 
tieville, Quebec. Its membership during the year 
continued at the capacity of 100 with an average of 
60 guests and members visiting the lodge each ski 
weekend. 


2 Fe ne 


The range of physical program in 'Y's across the city 
is enormous. There were figure-skating clubs, golf 
schools in four branches, skiing instruction, archery, 
wrestling, swimming, ornamental swimming, diving, foot- 
ball, and softball. Enrollment in teams and leagues 
was 1,809. 


Branches ran 'learn-to-swim' programs for children in 
the spring, with community branches coming by charter 
bus to pools at Westmount, Verdun-Lasalle, Internat- 
ional, and Central. 90 persons learned to swim dur- 
ing the year. In regular pool programs, 1];,950 were 
enrolled for swims and 5,708 progressive swim tests 
were awarded, ranging from beginners to life-saving. 


Gymnasium activities enrolled ),8h48 persons on 53,68) 
occasions during the year. In this category are in- 
cluded junior gym programs, judo groups, leaders corps 
trainees, (boys and girls), squash, gymnastics, body- 
building, and wrestling. 


Physical Fitness for Executives 


There continues to be increased interest in the busi- 
ness men's membership and the physical departments 
have acted during the past three years to revamp al- 
most every aspect of men's program to provide indivi- 
dualized fitness training schemes in line with modern 
recommendations. 


oe 


ak mee Ss FOR BO Ys AN 6 © lk LS 


KAMP KANAWANA 


Camp fires, regattas, swim meets, banquets, Indian cer- 
emonies indicate something of the scope and variety of 
activities and the fun the campers had doing them, but 
foremost in the thinking of the staff was the convic- 
tion that program is fhe means to helping campers 

learn new skills and grow in character. 


For the second season Kamp Kanawana program and camp 
supervision operated on what the 'Y! has called a basis 
of ‘planned group development!. The intention is fo 
make use of the relationships between small groups of 
campers as educational tools for fhe benefit of each 
camper. Parallel to this program innovation, the Mont- 
real YMCA has been working at the development of tech- 
niques which measure the character growth of members 

in program, and last summer at Kanawana the first find- 
ings were tested. 


The change of attitudes and temperament in selected 
camp counsellors has been successfully measured. As 

a result of these findings, camp programs aimed at at- 
titude change and character growth are now being more 
exactly planned and their effect on youth more preci - 
sely anticipated. 


Training Staff for Planned Group Development 


The success of planned group development like any edu- 
cation program depends to a great measure upon fhe 

skill and personal qualities of the 'leader-educator'. 
For this reason staff qualifications and training have 
received close aftfention at Kanawana and have been the 
subject of special fest studies over the past two years. 


Staff training started in May with three All Staff Ses- 
sions. In addition sessions were held at fhe Central 
Branch where waterfront program and procedure were dis- 
cussed and practical sessions given in the pool on 
water safety and canoeing. 


An additional seven-day training program, held on loca- 
tion at camp prior to opening proved valuable. 


« ue 


KANAWANA STATISTICS 


Age of Campers 1961 Length of Stay in Camp 1961 
8 5 
2 69 
10 99 2 weeks 416 
1 Bh weeks 
12 i f weeks 1h 
| 5 weeks and more 0 
Ny 5 6 weeks and more 2| 
15 23 8 weeks 22 


Voyageurs Bush Camp Trips for Older Boys 


In July and August Voyageurs trips were organized which 
took three groups of five boys on a three-week adventure 
250 miles into Quebec's northland lakes. Bush camping 
stresses campcraft, hiking, and canoeing for a means of 
transportation. The rule of the "I's" was established 

and proved to be all inclusive -- Initiative, Imagination, 
and Inventiveness -- These were the main requirements of 

@ group and ifs leader. 


Summer Programs For Youngsters in the City 


For youngsters in the city, summer can combine fun and 
learning. Day camps and summer fun clubs were operated 
by eight branches during the summer of 1961. 


Lakeshore 'Y' and Lachine-Dorval Branch used the camp 
Perrot site on Lake St. Louis. Here, ‘campers! spent 
the day building teepees, leantos, making cook-outs, 


and engaging in all the fascinations of Indian counci | 
lore. These are all the experiences of a regular resi- 
dent camp and yet fhe youngsters return home in time for 
supper. 


Summer Fun Clubs were operated by International, North- 
mount, Eastern Communities, Westmount, Southwestern, and 
Notre Dame de Grace. This is a three or five-day a week 
program of special outings, plenics, crafts, plant visits, 
competitive events, and recreational games. Some of the 


program is operated in the city branch, some is out-of- 
town picnicing, and some is in the form of museum and 
plant visits by charter bus. 


There were 2,050 children enrolled in 196! Day Camps 

and Summer Fun Clubs with a total program attendance 

of 43,90) over the seven-week period through July and 
August. 


Leadership for this work comes out of branch staffs 
and is supplemented with experienced !eaders from our 
own University-YMCA Fellowship Training group, and 
specially skilled people for certain crafts instruc- 
tion. In addition, volunteer leaders include college 
and high schoo! students and mothers of participating 
boys and girls. 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY 


REGISTRATION 


Table | sets forth the registration in day and evening 
divisions for the academic year 1960-61. This shows an 
increase of 11.9% in the day division and one of 16.h% 
in the evening division over 1959-60. The summer term 
registration also indicates an increase of Ih.I%. In 
view of the fact that the summer term, which is confined 
to the evening division, has now reached the maximum of. 
our accommodation unless we resort to Friday evenings 
and Saturday mornings (which would be very unpopular), 
consideration is being given to the possibility of oper- 
ating a day program in the summer. 


TABLE | - TOTAL REGISTRATION 
WINTER SUMMER 
Day Evening Total Evening Only 


1960-61 1960-61 1960-61 1961 


Arts, Science 


and Commerce ae 3974 5680 203), 
Engineering 5 65 123 : 
Partial 10 1396 1,06 578 
Totals 1775 Bush 7209 3612 


= [& ~ 


CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT 


During the year under review attention has been given to 
the University's curriculum. In the first place, cour- 
ses and course content in several departments have been 
reviewed. Secondly, various groups, including Faculty 
Council, made studies and recommendations with regard 

to three areas of development; (a) Honours courses, (b) 
graduate work, (c) engineering. 


The honours curriculum will demand a very high degree 

of performance, and will involve a greater degree of 
specialization than our majors, which have been in oper- 
ation for many years, buf will still preserve the general 
core requirements in the field of the degree (arts, sci- 
ence, or commerce). 


Academic work at the graduate level was approved in prin- 
ciple only and on the understanding that it should only 
be undertaken if the extent and quality of the basic un- 


dergraduate programs will not suffer thereby. At pres- 
ent there is no intention of initiating graduate work 
until the physical development, accompanied by some deg- 


ree of reorganization and extension, is accomplished. 


Approval has been given to the extension of the present 
engineering certificate program to the full degree curri- 
culum. The present thinking on this matter is that the 
first classes at the advanced level would commence with 
the opening of the projected new building. 


ADMISSIONS POLICY 


The demand has become so great for admission to first 
year that there is danger of filling up the available 
places before new high school graduates in any given 

year receive their high school leaving results early in 
August. We are watching the experiment of McGill Uni- 
versity, in conducting special admission examinations 
with a great deal of interest and the Registrar (Vice- 
Principal D. B. Clarke) has been able to maintain friendly 
and co-operative relationships with McGill and with other 
universities with regard to this matter. This is‘of 
great practical importance in our operation. 


For many years we have maintained a system which we call 


"mature matriculation" by means of which a mature person, 
who may not have the academic requirements for admission, 


KE) 8 


may nevertheless enter undergraduate courses. So great 
was this demand that last year group testing programs 
were held periodically during the summer months in Birks 
Hall. A thorough study of the performance of students 
admitted by mature matriculation is soon to be made. 
However, former studies and the general experience of 
staff indicate that those students who are able to pass 
the mature matriculation test achieve on the average an 
academic standard at least as high as those admitted by 
the more usual high school leaving standing. 


BURSARIES AND SCHOLARSHIPS 


A matter of constant concern is that of bursaries and 
scholarships. The opening of the Provincial bursaries 

to arts students has greatly assisted many more of our 
students in the day division. We are grateful to friendly 
institutions and individuals who have established scholar- 
ships but many more can be used. The establishment of 

the J. H. Andrews Scholarship and those of the Royal Albert 
Lodge and Touche, Ross, Bailey and Smart are particularly 
appreciated. 


TELEVISION 


Much interest has been developed in the field of educational 
television. The Canadian Broadcasting Corporation has invi- 
ted the University to present certain programs and has urged 
us to co-operate in the presentation of courses. A seven- 
week series entitled "University" in the fall of 1961 gave 
our staff considerable experience. Plans are now being 
developed for the offering of a credit course in the fall 


of 1962. This will probably be a course in Shakespeare. 
With its long tradition of part-fime education Sir George 
Williams should certainly experiement with projects fo 


meet community educational needs through this new medium. 
STAFF 


Significant staff changes involved seven new appointments 

to the full-time faculty which became effective in the 

fall of 1961. Dean R. C. Rae was appointed Vice-Principal 
and Dean from January |, I961. Associate Professor J. W. 
O'Brien was appointed Assistant Dean from August 15, I961, 
and Mr. Fred Denton was engaged as Counsellor to replace 

Mr. G. R. Lowe who resigned from the staff. Mr. R. A. Fraser, 
formerly Assistant Registrar, was appointed Secretary of the 
Faculty and Director of Examinations. 


= ty = 


ASSOCIATION OF ALUMNI 


The Alumni have had a most active year. Outstanding events 
weres (a) the Library Expansion Campaign which raised 
$15,000 for the Library, (b) the K. E. Norris Memorial Lec- 
ture was inaugurated on November 9th, the lecturer being 
the Right Honourable Louis St. Laurent, Q. C., (c) a recog- 
nition banquet held in June at which the Chancellor, the 
Principal and Professor Emeritus C. W. Thompson were made 
honorary members of the Association, (d) extensive plans 
were developed for the reunion of alumni marking the 
twenty-fifth anniversary of the first graduating class, to 
be held in April 1962. In addition to those special 
events, the Alumni held receptions following both the 
spring and fall convocation ceremonies. 


CONVOCATIONS 


The usual spring and fall convocation ceremonies were held 
and were presided over by the Chancellor. The spring con- 
vocation fook place at the Hussars! Armoury on May 26, the 
speaker being Professor David Munroe, Director of the In- 
stitute of Education, McGill University. The fall convo- 
cation took place on November 2h, in the Salvation Army 
Citadel. The speaker was Dr. Ogden Glass, Principal and 
Vice-Chancellor, Bishop's University. 


The following table shows the number of degrees and dip- 
lomas granted during the calendar year 196! compared with 
previous years. 


DEGREES AND DIPLOMAS GRANTED 


Bachelor degrees 55 66 h1o 

Associate diplomas 29 23 42 

Diplomas in Association Science 6 5 2 

Certificates in Engineering 26 10 --- 
FINANCE 


Owing to increases in registration the tuition income as 
well as the government grant, under the Act respecting fin- 
ancial assistance to the universities of the Province (Bil| 
58), were considerably increased over the previous year. 


In spite of rising cost, therefore, the consolidated ac- 
counts of the University and Schools were balanced at the 


end of the fiscal year. The total of all income for the 
year was $2,hth,497.00. It is to be noted that with the 
forthcoming expansion considerable attention will have to 


be directed to increasing the sources of income in order 
to meet greatly enlarged staff and overhead costs. 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS SCHOOLS 


if the four Schools related to Sir George Williams Uni- 
versity were a separate institution, they would perhaps 
be more widely recognized as an important educational in- 
stitution. It used to be said that the College was over- 
shadowed by the Schools, buf if is now readily recognized 
that the Schools may be somewhat hidden by the University. 
However, many thousand young-adult and middle-aged people 
of the Montreal area are still dependent upon the Sir 
George Williams Schools either for basic education in the 
evenings or for special training in either day or evening 
divisions. 


REGISTRATION 


The following tables show the registration of the Schools 
in 1960-61. In spite of severe restrictions of Space, and 
in some cases at least a mild policy of retrenchment in or- 
der fo give more space to the University, some degree of 
expansion has taken place. The evening divison of the 
Schools in 1960-61 shows an increase of 7.1% over the pre- 
vious year and the day division a slight increase of 0.9%. 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS SCHOOLS - REGISTRATION 


WINTER SUMMER 
1960-61 1961 

Day Evening Total Day Evening Total 
High School ==+ 2,710 2,710 -=+=+ 1, 15 1, ths 
Elementary School === 125 ia5 --- --- ase 
Business School 2h | 670 911 109 317 26 
School of Art 78 118 196 -=- --- = 
School of Retailing _56 --- 56 --- --- — 
TOTALS BTS 55825 5B | he2 1, 571 


THE HIGH SCHOOL 


Among evening educational institutions our High School 

must be almost unique in Canada including, as it does, the 
four high school years plus an elementary program for those 
who have not attained high school admission. It has a 
student body of some 4,000 persons and a staff of only two 
full-time officers wifh a corps of 79 trained and qualified 
teachers on a part-time basis. The Headmaster, Mr. A. Saun- 
ders, and the Assistant Headmaster, Mr. G. M. Cameron, man- 
age fo supervise this extensive organization and to main- 
tain a remarkable degree of personal contact with students 
and their problems. If is interesting that the demand for 
fhis service seems to be maintained rather than to decline 
in spite of the face of an increased rate of retention of 
pupils in the public school system in recent years. An 
achievement of this School in recent years was a marked 
increase in the retention rate. For a school of its type 
if has a surprisingly low percentage of drop-outs during 
fhe year. 


The annual graduation of the High Schoo! was held on Oct- 
ober 27. Mr. Peter F. Kerrington represented the Govern- 
ors as chairman and the speaker was Mr. T. He. G.~ Jackson. 
Diplomas and certificates awarded over the past few years 
are as follows: 


1961 1959 1957 


High School diplomas 275 212 166 
Elementary School certificates 77 73 66 


THE BUSINESS SCHOOL 


The Business School, which operates both day and evening 
divisions throughout the year, is, of course, the oldest 
of the units which now make up this institution. The in- 
crease in the Business School, previously referred to has 
been somewhat restricted due to development of the Univ- 
ersity. The annual graduation of the Business School was 
held on June 26th, with Mr. Roy Campbel! as chairman and 
Mr. W. Mo Ford (former Director of the School) as speaker. 
Diplomas and certificates awarded in recent years are as 
follows. 


= 26) t« 


E 


i961 1959 1957 


Business School diplomas (day) oy 100 h9 
Business School certificates (eve.) 92 78 ‘2 


SCHOOL OF ART 


As indicated in the registration table, 78 day students and 
and 118 evening students were registered during the year 
1960-61. The annual exhibition in May closed the academic 
year satisfactorily. The Director, Mr. John Stewart, is 

on leave of absence for the year 1961-62. However, his 
place is admirably filled by Mr. Leslie Smith. For many 
years Mr. Orson Wheeler has served as a distinguished mem- 
ber of our staff in the School of Arf. His well-known 
competence in the fields of sculpfure and architecture 

has been widely recognized. 


SCHOOL OF RETAILING 


= 


This interesting program of practical education is becom- 
ing more widely recognized, having students from as far 
afield as Newfoundland and Manitoba. In securing students 
the School is in competition with the universities, as ad- 
mission standards are maintained at a high level. In 
1960-61 the registration was just slightly below that of 
fhe previous year. The employment of students by the Co- 
operating Stores places a limit on the number of students 
whe can be admitted. 


The graduation ceremony of the School was held on May le, 
with Mr. Arthur Atkins representing the Board of Governors 
as chairman. The speaker was Major-General A. E. Walford. 
There were 2), graduates in the 1961 class. 


Ind Eo CLE Sy kn Ra Val Ee 8 


Three of our branches, Central, International, and West- 
mount have Men's Residences which provide accommodation 

at reasonable cost to young men. During 196! this ser- 

vice supplied 158,183 bed nights. 


The Drummond Street Residence, located in the downtown 
area, attracts the students, the servicemen, the 'Y!' mem- 
ber from another city or country, the foreign visitor, 


E 


R 


or the young man coming to the city for the first time. 
While in Montreal, they are rendered many of the services 
needed to make their stay in our city a pleasant one. 


The Building Management Committee completed refurbish- 
ing of the sixth floor in the original Drummond Street 


section of the Residence. In the project the Montreal 
Association is offering a new standard of comfort and 
convenience in YMCA Residence facilities for young-ex- 


ecutive men. . . 60 spacious rooms have been completely 
decorator-styled in "Swedish Modern" design to provide 
pleasantly comfortable accommodation. 


in 1961, two complete floors in the Drummond Street 
building operated as a residence for students from Sir 
George Williams University. There were 88 full-time 
day students registered in single rooms provided at 
$1.00 per day .. . less than one-third the usual rate. 
This group is separate from employed young men, some of 
whom are also registered as evening students and living 
in the residence. 


SON AL Ce Ne SE a aa G 


Many persons find within the YMCA a receptive and sym- 
pathetic atmosphere within which fhey can discuss indi- 
vidual problems. To adults and teenagers goes help on 
vocations, marriage, courtship, family, and personality 
adjustments; to youngsters, the problem of quitting 
school, choosing courses, dating; fo parents, the Sec- 
retary frequently becomes helper or advisor on child 
problems. The immigrant, the new boy in town, the un- 
employed youth . . . Year in and year out since {851 
these continue to be fhe focus of individual staff atten- 
tion. In 196! there were 78,686 recorded individual in- 
tferviews. 


Central Branch performed a special function in its Adult 
Counselling Bureau. This new project has been an invalu- 
able aid to a great many of the young men and women who 
come to a big downtown YMCA Branch from all over the city 
and even from all over fhe world. 


a 225. 


785 Employment Placements 


Throughout 1961 the University Placement Office (a branch 
of the National Employment Service) reported nearly five 
thousand interviews with students, six hundred interviews 
with employers, and 785 placements. In addition, over 30 
firms and institutions sent representatives for one or 
more days to interview students af the University. 


AcN oC nk& A N D FoR ecOuP :Eokh iT «Fk 


The annual campaign continues to be one of the regular 
undertakings with potential away beyond its immediate 
objective. On the other hand, there is no program event 
which is subjected to more careful analysis in order to 
Overcome problems which are continually emerging in this 
area. Mr. C. A. Schell of the YMCA Financial Service 
Bureau spent a week in Montreal in the spring visiting 
each branch in order to counsel on campaign techniques 
from the branch or divisional point of view. His visit 
was made without charge to the Association. It was very 
valuable in that an objective point of view was brought 
fo bear on the subject. Evident concerns were more 
sharply identified and some suggested changes were car- 
ried out with some success, although not sufficient to 
to warrant a full scale adoption of the plan for the 
future. 


The Campaign was held November {4th to 27th with an ob- 
jective of $250,000. Final reports showed I,252 gifts 
for a total of $245,378, which although slightly less 
than the goal was considered an excellent showing in 
view of the prevailing economy. 


For the second year Mr. James G. Kendrick gave excellent 
leadership as General Chairman. Mr. R. A. Irwin, as 
Chairman of Special Names, and Mr. L. T. Clegg as Vice- 
Chairman, handled this important segment of the organiz- 
ation with equally high-quality leadership, and secured 
60% of the total Campaign objective. An able corps of 
Divisional Chairmen, secured by branch boards of manage- 
ment, related effectively fo the team's organization. 


= Stes 


The organization included more than 2,000 volunteer work- 
ers which, when related to the exclusive canvassing ter- 
ritory, provides some indication of the impact of the 
appeal. There was improvement in some sections in the 
number of calls completed in the active campaign period. 
The problem of completing the task within a two-week period 
is still a matter of concern and study. 


Mr. Ben J. Schmoker of the International Committee of 
YACA's was the special speaker at the opening dinner. Mr. 
Schmoker, out of a long, rich YMCA experience, gave a 

most interesting and challenging address with emphasis 

on the importance of the Association in the contemporary 
world. 


BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES 


Unusual items of building renovation and repairs included 
the following: 


Drummond-Stanley Building 


Conversion of former library and stack room area into Uni- 
versity Administrative offices, Faculty Lounge with air 
conditioning and additional club room space; major replace- 
ments of shower room and exit doors and installation of 


panic bolts; rehabilitation and refurnishing of Residence 
rooms on sixth floor, and related removal of linen room 
facilities to l2th floor Stanley Streets; renewal of roof, 


Stanley Street Building, and flashing on Drummond and 
Stanley Street Buildings; making new passageway in Central 
Branch locker room to expand use of former Boys! and Girls! 
locker rooms; outside painting, Drummond and Stanley Street 
Buildings. 


Sir George Williams University 

Modifications in Registrar's area to provide more space, 
made available by removal of Administrative offices to 

the second floor, Drummond Street Buildings Student Affairs 
facilities in basement expanded by the addition of more of- 
fices with installation of air conditioning. 

Westmount Branch 


Replacement of roof and flashing; outside painting; major 
repairs to windows, masonry, and brickwork. 


- 2) - 


Notre Dame De Grace Branch 


Complete rehabilitation of Handball Courts with new 
lighting; retiling locker room floors; installation of 
new fire exif lights. 


Northmount Branch 


Major renovation, including inside and outside painting, 
electric and plumbing repairs, and general cleaning of 
fabrilite. 


International Branch 


Emergency repairs to ash hoist, and major emergency re- 
pairs to front of building involving complete new front 
entrance. 


BEQUESTS 


During the year the following sums were received and 
added to the Endowment Fund: 


Estate Mrs. M. R. Labatt-$1,000 further payment on legacy 
Estate M. M. Walter FF O80 full payment on legacy 

Estate Frank L. Benedict-$1,980 further payment on legacy 
Estate Frank L. Benedict-%4,000 further payment on legacy 


WORLD SERVICE AND 
BUILDINGS FOR BROTHERHOOD 


The Montreal Association has been in the vanguard of YMCAs 
in North America in its significant support of fhe infterna- 
tional service of the YMCA for the past 74 years. 


The local program in 1961 included important highlights, 
the annual Plenary meetings of fhe International Commit- 
tee being held in Montreal; the realization of the 
Buildings for Brotherhood goal of $80,000.00; the suc- 
cessful solicitation of the largest annual World Service 
fund of $35,750.00; final remittance for this fund going 
forward by September I5th and thereby setting a challeng- 
ing pace for other YMCA's,. 


~.29e= 


World Service has helped establish YMCA's in 6 of the 83 
countries and territories in which the Association now 
operates. During the year 59 professional staff members 
served at home and abroad, including the Fraternal Sec- 
retaries in 32 countries. For every North American 'Y! 
man now serving abroad there are at least 20 locally-sup- 
ported professional 'Y' secretaries and 450 volunteer 
leaders. A most significant work was launched during the 
year in Uganda and recent reports refer in generous ferms 
to the timeliness of this effort. 


Robert Sallery, a YMCA Fellowship sfudent, spent his sum- 
mer vacation working with the International Committee at 
the refugee camp in Lebanon, through the generosity of 
Montreal laymen. ‘His enthusiastic reports of the signi- 
ficant work going on in that area added much fo the reg- 
ular interpretive activities during the year, involving 
the use of films, “One Face of Africa", "On Top of the 
World", the circulation of printed material including 
leaflets, the periodic issues of the Reporter, and the 
continued circulation of World Communique to 560 indivi- 
duals. 


During the year two men brought their knowledge and en- 
thusiasm to Montreal audiences on this important under- 
taking: 


Miliard Collins, of the Administrative Staff of the Int- 
ernational Committee, gave important messages on the 
total impact of the World Service program in many coun- 
tries. 


Norman Ford, Fraternal Secretary from India, was most 
effective in relating to student groups in the Univer- 
Sify. 


The Plenary Meetings of the International Committee held 

in the Queen Elizabeth Hotel in September, provided an 
opportunity for many laymen and secretaries fo be exposed 
to the detailed discussions, regarding World Service, 

which go on af the administrative level. Outstanding in 
these meetings was the annual banquet at which Ben J. 
Schmoker made a challenging statement on the 50 years! 
service of the Committee on Friendly Relations with Foreign 
Students, and the premiere showing of the new film on the 
same subject “Unofficial Ambassadors". 


=*26>= 


in two previous annual reports information has been given 
on the Buildings for Brotherhood campaign fo raise a fund 
of $16,000,000. around the world for 116 building projects 
in 44 countries. Out of a North American objective of 
$6,000,000 Canada's share was $,06,000. Montreal accepted 
a goal of $80,000 and at December 3!st, 1961, had forwar- 
ded $78,000 (the balance is payable in 1962). On 75 of 
the projects construction has been completed on 26, and is 
in progress on 9. 


In the combined picture the results at December 4lst, 1961, 
were as follows: 


BUILDINGS FOR BROTHERHOOD 


OBJECTIVE 2 
Accepted Goal Cash 
North America & 6,351,000 $ 6,303,000 $)., 966, 82h, 
Canada 405, 000 397s 7h7 299,723 
Montreal 80, 000 80, 000 78, 000 
WORLD SERVICE 
OBJECTIVE A. te he 
Accepted Goal Cash 
North America # 1,855,000 $ 1,689,h19 41,739, 65) 
Canada 168,010 15,857 Sh, 31,0 
Montreal 554 (99 35,750 35,750 


The response to these World Service undertakings in 1961 has 
been excellent thanks to the co-operation of many individuals 
and corporations, youth groups and students of Sir George Wil- 
liams University, and a core of deeply interested laymen. 
Central Branch and the University students deserve special 
mention for exceeding their respective quotas by substantial 
margins. The following tabulations give results by adminis- 
trative units. 


pe? _- 


BUILDINGS FOR BROTHERHOOD WORLD SERVICE 


Cash and Pledges Actual 
Metropolitan $ 37 078 $ pice 
Central oe ee 993 
University Students - 5,55 
University Others 276 22h 
Westmount 3, 063 1,320 
Internationa! 1,97 796 
Notre Dame de Grace 1,46 2,000 
Verdun-LaSalle B12 295 
Lachine-Dorval 942 B25 
Eastern Communities 22 96 
Northmount 93 oe 
Lakeshore 590 7 
Camp Otoreke 3, 000 1,200 
Kamp Kanawana - 400 
TOTAL $80, 000 $35,750 


Cash ( 78,000) 


Fee oONRE L 


BOARDS AND COMMITTEES 


The affairs of the Association were administered by the 
Metropolitan Board of Directors, Branch Boards of Manage- 
ment, and committees related to the various departments — 
and sections of its work. During the year |,598 persons 
were active on boards and committees. 


VOLUNTEER LEADERS 


Many thousands of hours of volunteer leadership were 
given by people who acted as advisors, leaders, instruc- 
tors, and counsellors in many crafts, interest groups, 
clubs, and camping programs. The total number of 1, 8h5 
people were involved in this way during 1961. 


STAFF - SECRETARIAL 


During the year, there were 59 professional YMCA secret- 
aries, 53 full-time employees, while 692 were employed 


2138 =. 


on a part-time basis. Included in the part-time personnel 
were 2 Fellowship Students from various parts of Canada, 
who attended Sir George Williams University and did prog- 
ram work as part of their preparation for YMCA secretary- 
ship. 


EMPLOYED OFFICERS 


The following appointments and transfers took place among 
the employed officers during fhe year:- 


ust Charles Ancrum, from Assistant Secretary Southwestern 
Branch, to Boys! Secretary International Branch, repla- 
cing Kay Smith. 


west Jack Organ, Assistant Secretary Lachine-Dorval, repla- 
cing William Bilton who resigned to do graduate study. 


“ux Geraldine Zinn, Assistant Secretary Lachine-Dorval, 
replacing Judith Murphy who resigned fo marry. 


wee Jack Lutes, Executive Secretary Norfthmount Branch, suc- 
ceeding John M. Ferguson who became the first Executive 
Director of the Association of Alumni of Sir George 
Williams University. 


“ext Margaret Johnson, Assistant Secretary Northmount Branch, 
succeeding Joan Molson who left to be married. 


wut Roy McKelvie, Physical Director, Notre Dame de Grace 
Branch. 


west Arthur Perry, Assistant Secretary Southwestern Branch, 
replacing Charles Ancrum who transferred to Interna- 
tional Branch. 


wx Mossman Dudgeon, Physical Director Westmount, succeed- 
ing John Rae who was appointed General Secretary, Brown- 
ville Junction Railroad YMCA. 


wut Arlene Ann Pickle, Assistant Hi-Y Secretary, Notre Dame 
de Grace. 


a<29 ~ 


OPFPCERS 


Je We McConnell 
Colin W. Webster 
H. Roy Crabtree 
T. Denton Lewis 
W. N. Hall 

J. R. Logan 


DIRECTORS 


S. Abbott 

R. Alexander 
USSF 
Turner Bone 
W. Bradshaw 
H. T. Clegg 


° ¢ e@ 2 o ee © © ®@ 


R. Crawford 
A. Emerson 
chm B. Frosst 
L. Hamilton 
Arnold Hart 
E. Heartz 
orge M. Hobart 
G. Houlding 
A. Irwine 


Ae ODOmMenDeonoszrnrSremo 


* «© Me 


BRANCH CHAIRMEN 


Genitra | aoa ee E. 
International 


Lachine-Dorval 


- George T. 


Lakeshore - R, 


Bancroft 


Norman Clelland 
Leslie Copland 


Morgan 
- M N. 
- J. 
Eastern Communities 


Jones 


-Honorary President 
-President 

-Ist Vice-President 
-2nd Vice-President 
-3rd Vice-President 
-Honorary Treasurer 


wa 


J 
W. 
W. 
H. 
da 
Da 
S 
J 
W 
B 
H 
A 
H. G 
Irvi 
Om 1B 
iW 
C 


F. B. Walls 


Nort 


Sout 
Sir 


- W. Neilson 


So: Davies 


e G. 
fe) 
« Es Sargent 
. 


Davies Ne. (Oi Ge 
M. Crawford 


METROPOLITAN OFFICERS 
AND BOARD MEMBERS 


Kendrick 
- Kirkpatrick 


F. Mainguy 


- Mawhinney 


D. McKeown 
R. McMaster, Q. C. 


- Norsworthy 
-.Prttcherd 
- Robb 


W. Roberts 


rd ‘ls Riess 
reville Smith 
ng Reo Tatt 
» Thornton 
« Townsend 


L. Walker 


hmount - F. G. Raymant 
- S. L. Shannon 
hwestern - Cliff Minshull 


George Williams University - 


B. W. Roberts 


Westmount - J. C. Annesley 


METROPOLITAN OFFICERS 


AND BOARD MEMBERS 


CAMP CHAIRMEN 


Boys! Camping Committee -G. C. R. Clousten 
Otoreke Camp Committee -Brian Hammond (Acting Chairman) 


ADVISORY BOARD 


T. H. Atkinson W. H. Howard; @; €. 
E. vw. Bel nap A. C. Jensen 
Joseph M. Breen Frederick Johnson 
Henry G. Birks Herbert H. Lank 
G. W. Bourke E. A. Leslie 
Arthur H. Campbell W. FF. Aackiaier, @. C. 
Murray R. Chipman A. Wesley Mason 
J. FP. Copland J. G. McConnell 
A. H. Cowie J. W. McConnell 
J. H. Davey T. R. McLagen 
Ss. 6. Bebson A. W. McMaster 
George V. Ferguson R. O. McMurtry 
G. 8B. ROSherg *A. L. Paterson 
de &s Fuel ber F. R. Phelan 
be G. Garde tf R. E.j Powell 
G. B. Gordon W. W. Southam 
H. J. Hannaford KR. £. oFavers 
R. D. Harkness Guy Tombs 
*R. A. C. Henry “W. Ke. Trower 
George R. Hodgson Maj-Gen. A. E. Walford 
Re €. Holden, Gg. C. E. C. Wood 


*% Deceased 


ROR TN AT ING C@eea tT Tee 
The Report of the Nominating Com- 
mittee to the Annual Meeting of 

the Young Men's Christian Associ- 
ation of Monfreal. 
25, 


Wednesday, April 1962 


Mr. President: 

Your Committee, having carried ouf ifs duties in accord- 
ance with the constitution, hereby nominates the follow- 
ing active members to become directors of the Associa- 
tion for a three-year term: - 


C. W. Webster B. W. Roberts 
W. N. Hall O02 Ba Thomniton 
J. R. Logan L. W. Townsend 
Cy cs, Cop land fF. 8. Wadils 
R. A. Emerson Morley G. Taylor 
Rie wens, ) Hieiaite hz W; €. Corbett 

Jd. G. Kendrick 


Your Committee wishes to report that, at the last meet- 
ing of the Metropolitan Board of Directors, the follow- 
ing were elected members of the Advisory Board for a 
three-year term: - 


J. D. 
H es | s 


McKeown 
Ross 


Wilson McConnell! 


He 
a ee 
Re 
G. 
= jee 
» Bx 
- We 


Atkinson 
Bourke 
Chipman 
Dobson 
Ferguson 
Foster, Va. 
Fuller 

A. W. Mason 


Respec 


2 Om 

. . e 
Kj =>rrir= 
ee e e e e e 


cs ee 


=» 5G = 


Lank 
Leslie 

- McConnell 
« McMaster 
« McMurtry 


eRe 
¢ OAs 

» & 

« W 

40 

- R. Phelan 
uy Tombs 

+ Es Waltord 


C. Wood 
Rie 


DMraoanwarcmr 


Johnson 


tfully submitted, 


Mawhinney (Chairman) 
T. Clegg 

Hamilton 

Smith 

McDermid 


Strain 


ORTTUAR ¥ 


We record with sorrow the pas- 
sing of a number of friends of 
the Association. 


Mr. William F. Brass - Former member of Westmount Branch 
Board of Management 


Mr. Arthur L. Paterson - For many years a member of the 
Metropolitan Board of Directors 


Hon. Mr. Justice Stuart Ralston - Member of Central Branch 
Board of Management 


Mr. Wo Taylor-Bailey - Former Vice-Chairman of the Board 
of Governors, Sir George Williams University, and a member 
of the Metropolitan Board of Directors 


Mr.o W. K. Trower - Long-time member of the Metropolitan 
Board of Directors and latterly of the Advisory Board 


Mr. Royal Werry, Q. C. - Former member of International 
Branch Board of Management and a past Chairman 


Mr. W. F. Angus Miss M. Lindsay 

Mr. W. E. D. Baldwin Mr. C. D. McCallum 
Mr. Leslie Barnard Mr. W. G. McMaster 
Mr. James G. Brierley Col. F. M. McRobie 
Mr. Robert Brodie Mr. D. Kline MacDonald 
Profs (C.i Vai Christie Mr. W. MacDonald 

Mr 9 Eon Jay Cosford Mr. A. G. MacKinnon 
Mr. G. N. Coyle Col. A. Aw Magee 

Mr. Jackson Dodds Mr. We. A. Mather 

Mr. Oliver Dow Mis eRe Be Aoittilt 

Nese Can De EGSforih Miss A. Morgan 

Miss B. Evely Mr« H.+Bs,Parker 

Migs Aw EE. FiraimGirs Nr. J. Is Rankin 

Mr. Russell Y. Graul Mr. Blair Russel 

MGs WesS.! Hart Mr. Arthur Simon 

Mr. George Henderson Mr. Howard C. Simpkin 
Mt. Be He Johnston Mr.'Re We Stafford 
Mr. Gilbert Layton Mr. E. A. Walton 


Mr. George W. Day 


- 43 - 


AFrTPRE C 


It is ne 
tely exp 
fhe many 
als and 
tribute 


iz TiO 


ver possible to adequa- 
ress appreciation to 
thousands of individu- 
organizations who con- 
each year fo fhe work 


of the YMCA, but we do wish to 


record + 
gements. 


he following acknowled- 


To the members of the BOARDS and COMMITTEES who gave 
guidance and counsel to the work of the Association 
during the year. 


To the hundreds of volunteer ADVISORS, LEADERS, and 
COUNSELLORS who played such an important part in 
group, club, and camp programs. 


To the many INDIVIDUALS and CORPORATIONS whose gen-=- 
erous financial assistance has made the year's work 
possible. 


To PRESS, RADIO, and TELEVISION for the help they 
have given in interpreting the work of the Associ- 
ation to the community. 


To the individual MINISTERS and CHURCHES in the 
Greater Montreal area, the Greater Montreal Counci | 
of Churches and the Council of Christian Education 
of the Province of Quebec with whom we have so much 
in common. 


To the PROTESTANT SCHOOL BOARD for making available 
school gymnasiums, offices, and club room space to 
supplement our own building facilities. 


To other YOUTH ORGANIZATIONS: The Young Women's 
Christian Association, The Young Men's and Young 
Women's Hebrew Associations, and The Montreal Coun- 
cil of Social Agencies. 


= 3h es 


THE YEAR IN STATISTICS 


Figures are meaningful only when 
considered as persons who are 
playing and learning together in 
a Christian environment. Char- 
acter is influenced by associa- 
tion with like-minded people. 


VOLUNTEER SERVICE 

Group Leaders 

On Boards, Committees and Councils 
HEALTH AND PHYSICAL FITNESS 
Gymnasium Activities 

Swimming Classes 

Swimming Tests and Lessons 

No. of Individuals Taught to Swim 
Teams, Leagues, Rinks, and Playfields 
Athletic Events 

GROUPS AND CLUBS - 1,180 

Purpose and Fellowship Clubs 
Interest Groups and Classes 
INFORMAL EDUCATION 

Craffs and Hobbies 

Lectures, Forums, and Study Groups 
Motion Pictures and Film Clubs 
Eibraries, Book Circulation 


RELIGIOUS EDUCATION 


Meetings, Study Groups, Chapel 


- 45 - 


ENROLLMENT 


2h, 488 


932 


ATTENDANCE 


13,807 


Par iit 


19, 51.9 
Ds 599 


280, 756 


13, 287 
55592 
19,032 
153,729 


11,696 


ENROLLMENT ATTENDANCE 


SOCIAL RECREATION 


Dances, Parties, and Social Affairs 6 ie 
Dramatics and Musical Events i he 
trips, Cufings, Efe. By ott 
CAMPS 
Campers Camper Days 

Boys 519 10, 920 
Men 563 2,360 
Women Vad 5, 90 | 
Total Camper Enrollment |, 809 
Total Camper Days 18,791 
City Camps and Fun Clubs - 8 2,050 33, 90h, 
PERSONAL SERVICES 
Counselling and Interviews 5h, 7:7 
Employment Placements 785 
Residence Placements 158, 183 
Food Services 452,926 
FORMAL EDUCATION 
Sir George Williams University & Schools 16,845 
No. of Students-16,835. No. of Differ- 
ent Classes-1,080 
No. of Student Class Hours 3,977, 508 
COMMUNITY SERVICE 
No. of Outside Organizations Using 'Y'! 

Facilities 8h 
No. of Times 2,12 68,1438 
GROSS ATTENDANCE 
Clubs, Groups, Program Events, Educa- 

tion Classes & Personal Services 5,06), 803 


= 46 5 


