Ai ome 
VNC” 





Vv 


Annual Report 1966 


one hundred and fifteenth 


YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 


YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF MONTREAL 
. 1441 DRUMMOND STREET 


the metropolitan board of directors 


Sth September 1967 


The 115th Annual Meeting of the Young 
Men's Christtan Assoctation of Montreal will take 
place on Monday, September 18th, 1967, at 5:00 p.m. 
tn the Willingdon Room of the Downtown Branch of 
the YMCA, 

A most cordial invitation ts extended 


to you to attend this meeting, 


F. G, Hubbard 
General Secretary. 


R.s.v.p. on enclosed card. 


One hundred and fifteenth 
ANNUAL REPORT 
YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION 


OF MONTREAL 


1966-67 


INTRODUCTION 


Efforts to ensure that our association continues to serve the real 
contemporary needs of Greater Montreal communities imposed a number 
of extra strains on our resources during the period under review. 


The main concerns were, and still are: 


Youth's rebellion against society and the 
broadening communications gap between young 
people and adults. 


The often unsatisfied outcry of young 
people for a voice in many of the changes 
affecting society. 


The need for more programs of continuing 
education. These should be designed to 
promote individual self-development and 
stretch participants' capacities to enjoy 
more things more fully and to make a useful 
contribution to society. 


The growth of institutionalism and the 
increasing influence of government on all 
aspects of human activity. 


Ecumenism and biculturalism. 


The degree to which Y branches should partic- 
ipate in the affairs of their communities. 


Nh 


PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT 


The task of re-defining goals and directions for the years ahead 
involved the total Montreal association. Under the leadership of 
W.S. Kirpatrick, hundreds of Y members, volunteer leaders and staff 
personnel participated in this vital undertaking. 


The decision to examine Montreal YMCA policies, objectives and 
programs was reached in September at a weekend seminar in Mont 
Tremblant. This seminar, held in conjunction with the annual meeting, 
attracted 140 representatives from all branches and camps. Many of 
those who attended were between the ages of 17 and 25, indicating 
that young people are becoming increasingly interested in the sharing 
of policy-making decisions. 


A "Guidelines" document was prepared during the summer by R.G. Rogers, 
assistant general secretary, and distributed in advance to all 
delegates. It served as a basis for intensive discussion during the 
weekend. 


Teams from each branch and camp devoted months to studies of the 
relevancy of the YMCA's on-going activities to the needs of their 
communities. Though the findings of this critical self-appraisal 
are still incomplete, hundreds of interviews with community leaders 
and members indicate a number of significant changes are required. 





Final agreement on near-term and long-range goals for the Montreal 
YMCA is expected to be reached at a second city-wide seminar, to be 
held in November, 1967. 


DETACHED WORK PROGRAM 


Efforts were strengthened to reach young people who normally avoid 
any form of involvement with society. This project is considered 
one of the most challenging ever to be accepted by the Montreal YMCA. 
Its main objective -- to help detached youth, male and female, gain 


knowledge and acquire skills which will encourage and help 
them to bridge the gap between themselves and society. 


After 14 years in the field, a detached worker in lower NDG 
reports that the type of educational, re-training and job 
placement opportunities required in the area are not now 
available. Many of the young people he contacted were 
school dropouts, a number of them from broken homes and 
without jobs. To meet some of their most pressing needs, 
he recommended that the YMCA undertake the following: 


is Set up a series of special courses aimed at 
specific problems. This would include training 
in how to apply for a job and sessions on 
subjects now being generally ignored by the 
school systems. 


Ds Initiate an experimental program in co-operation 
with government and industry. For example, this 
might, involve the leasing of a service station 
that would be managed by a professional with 
group-training and self-improvement skills. 
Efforts might also be made to interest a major 
food chain in funnelling unemployed youth into 
its existing training program. 


a. Develop closer liaison with the Montreal Police 
Force. 
4. Expand the scope of activities which enable the 


young people to use their leisure time constructively. 


These recommendations will be considered by the Planning and 
Development Committee. 


YMCA CAREER TRAINEES FOLLOW FLEXIBLY DIVERSIFIED CURRICULUM 


Fellowship students at Sir George Williams voted unanimously 
to include a tour of overseas duty as part of their preparations 


for careers with the YMCA, 


Objective of this program is to prepare young men and women 

to help others cope with and enjoy today's fast changing world. 
The emphasis is on the development of human qualities, and on 
the sharpening of the student's senses and perceptions. 


NEW DIRECTORS 


Pierre Delagrave, Vice-President Public and Employee Relations, 
Domtar Limited; David Gill, Vice-President of Nesbitt Thomson 
and Company Limited; Claude Hébert, President, Transparent Paper 
Products; Robert H. Hoppe, President of Stuart Brothers Limited; 
J.G. Kendrick, President of Zellers Ltd.; Claude Robillard, 
President, Dyname Corp. Ltd. 


The election of Messers Delagrave, Hébert and Robillard is in 
line with efforts to develop more effective and active lines of 
communication with Montreal's French speaking community. 


RESIDENCE POLICY TIGHTENED 


A continuing influx of youthful strangers to the city compelled 
Downtown Branch to become more selective in the allocation of 
rooms in its residence. First choice of accommodation is given to 
men between the ages of 18 and 40 who have never been in Montreal. 
Anyone who has been in residence for two years is encouraged to 
find suitable accommodation elsewhere. 


CATHOLIC LEADER'S ENDORSEMENT 


Father Irénée Beaubien joined the growing number of Roman Catholic 
leaders who recognize that the Y can contribute significantly 

to the elimination of barriers between people of different beliefs 
and cultures. 


"Here the YMCA has a definite role to play," commented Father 
Beaubien, who is Director of the Montreal Ecumenical Centre and a 
member of the Board of the National Secretariat on Ecumenism. 


TEEN-AGE CLUB PURPOSES DEFINED 





Some 1,030 teenagers participated in Club activities. Main 
objectives of these learning laboratories are to. Help boys and girls 
aged 14-17 to think for themselves, develop leadership capabilities 
and gain an insight into group behavior. 


Experts agree that this stage of pre-maturity is a crucial one. 
Physical and mental development is usually rapid and ambitions, 
which are starting to take shape, frequently conflict with desires 
and drives. 


What young people do during this trying period--and why they do it-- 
is usually influenced more by their contemporaries than by home 
environment. 


Each club is encouraged to set its own objectives and standards of 
achievement. Members work with a volunteer adult advisor on the 
planning and implementation of their own activities, in their own 
way and time. 


P.E.I. VISITORS 


Verdun-LaSalle branch arranged to participate with HI-Y Club members 
from Charlottetown in a social and educational program. Teenagers 
from the branch helped plan arrangements to feed and house the 
visitors. 


ATHLETIC AWARDS 


More than 600 people attended Downtown Branch's Annual Athletic 
Awards Night. Principal speaker was Paul Anderson, who climaxed 
his address with a demonstration of the powerness which had 
undisputed claim to the title "The World's Strongest Man". The 
theme of his talk - how athletics and sports can help develop 
the character and leadership potentialities of young people. 


PUBLIC RELATIONS 


Victor G. Baker accepted the chairmanship of the public relations 
committee. Editorial Communications was retained to plan and 
implement a continuing public relations program for the YMCA. 
Principal objectives of this program are: 


To develop widespread awareness of the scope 

of the YMCA and understanding of its purposes 
aims, size and role in the community; to 

dispel popular misconceptions about the YMCA; 
to inform the public about specific activities 
and services; to encourage public participation 
and increase membership. 


SCHOOL STRIKE, GLUE SNIFFING 


NDG Branch made headlines across the country when it opened its 
doors to Montreal area high school students whose studies were 
interrupted when Catholic teachers staged their province-wide 
strike. The story, which also appeared on television, was 
picked up by CBS television in the United States. 


As a further demonstration of community involvement, ..NDG col- 
laborated with Westmount Branch to sponsor a teenage seminar on 
glue-sniffing. The very real physical and mental hazards of 
this fad were clearly explained by a prominent physican, while 
legal ramifications were discussed by an eminent lawyer. 


Interest was high and both speakers were kept busy for hours 
answering questions from the audience. The hall was packed 
and scores of late arrivals had to be turned away. 


INTERNATIONAL BRANCH IN PARK EXTENSION 


International Branch spearheaded a drive to promote co-operation 
between the many different ethnic groups living in Park Extension 
and obtain recreational facilities for their teenagers. 


Located in north-central Montreal, this district has for years 
attracted newly-landed immigrants. Many of these have, however, 
considered the area as little more than a waystation. As a result, 
more than half of the population moves out every two years. 


The challenge, as seen by International Branch personnel, is to 
foster a feeling of identity and pride that would encourage the 
newcomers to become a permanent part of the community's fabric. 


CAMP ING 


Kamp Kanawana celebrated its seventy-third year of operation with 
488 campers ranging in age from 7 to 17 years. Total of camper 
weeks was 1,323 against 1,182 in 1965. 


A two-week training program for 45 program staff preceded the camp 
opening, with several Montreal YMCA Secretaries participating as 
section directors. 


To develop future leaders, an eight week program was held for 
Counsellors-in-Training and Junior Counsellors. 


A PHILOSOPHY FOR SUMMER CAMPS 


A. Ross Seaman, our Director of Camping, raised a number of 
eyebrows when he explained how Camp Kanawana is operated as a 
"participatory democracy". 


"We don't try to mold the boys into a rigid program. Instead 

we encourage them to share in the planning of their own activities. 
Their needs and desires come first. The counsellor is part of the 
group, serving as a mentor." 


This, he said, helps to supplement and complement the educational 
program of the school system. 


"Demands of most school curriculums leave students with too little 
opportunity to learn about decision-making and its accompanying 
responsibility. Whole new vistas open up when they can participate 
in the decision that will affect them." 


LES VOYAGEURS DE LA VERENDRYE 


41 teens from Halifax, N.S., Arvida, Quebec, Williamstown, 
Massachusetts and Montreal enjoyed seven weeks of wilderness canoe 
camping in Northern Quebec. A small year-to-year reduction in the 
number of participants was attributed to increased attendance at 
summer school and poor weather during the last three weeks of the 
season. 


DAY CAMPS AND FUN CLUBS 


3,083 youngsters varying in age from 6 to 13 years were involved 
in seven day camps and fun:clubs organized and planned by the 
various Branches of the Montreal YMCA in a number of communities. 
Activities were planned and supervised by 207 leaders and members 
of the staff. 


The Ile Perrot family camping program organized by the West Island 
Branch of the Montreal YMCA accommodated 130 families plus 27 group 
from the community. 


BABY SITTING SERVICE 


Westmount and NDG branches set up in-building baby sitting services 
for mothers who wanted to participate during the day in continuing 
education programs. The service was also offered to housewives 
taking part in fitness activities. 


B_ AND B AT VERDUN LASALLE 


Efforts of Verdun-LaSalle Branch were designed, increasingly, to 
involve French-language residents of the community. A program 
launched to develop the creative talents of four-to-six year olds 
is one example. The instructors were fully bilingual, providing 
the children with an opportunity to learn and practice a second 
language. 


SKI_ SCHOOL 


Including the ladies who registered for afternoon classes, 
registration for West Island Branch's Ski Instruction program 
exceeded 1,800 during the past winter. This school is now considered 
one of the largest of its kind in North America. It employed 78 
instructors during the latest period. Some 1,300 children, 225 
teenagers and 280 adults participated in the program. 


WESTMOUNT FACILITIES STRAINED 


Membership in Westmount Branch increased by 25%, from 982 to 1,231. 
Program participation was also up, from 44,362 to 52,171. 


Response to the Branch's first venture into the field of continu- 
ing adult education was enthusiastic. Accomodation for this 
Program's overflow was found in Westmount Park School. 


While physical limitations remained a source of concern, there 
was a gratifying increase in the strength of the Board of Management 
and Working Committees. 


10 


NEW ACTIVITIES AT NORTHMOUNT 


Northmount Branch concentrated increasingly on community affairs. 
Contact was made with detached youth from St. Laurent and Town 

of Mount Royal, discussion groups were organized to give TMR mothers 
a deeper insight into their role in a changing world, and programs 
of sensitivity training were arranged for adults of different ages. 
Community groups were also encouraged to participate more actively 
in the planning and development of programs for the branch. 


LACHINE-DORVAL IN CHATEAUGUAY 


A request for help in establishing a YMCA in Chateauguay was receive 
in 1965. A sustaining membership of 350 was enlisting during last . 
March and April, and an Area Board has been elected which is relatec 
to the Lachine-Dorval Branch Committee of Management. 


Objectives in Chateauguay are: 


To serve the community more fully by including both French and Engli 
speaking residents in the work of the Y. 


Provide increased opportunities for young people and adults to engag 
in rewarding, leisure time activities. 


Encourage the maximum use of existing resources to solve community 
problems, play a co-ordinating role with different community groups, 
develop a spirit of co-operation which will avoid overlapping 
objectives. 


WORLD SERVICE 


In keeping with its longtime interest, the Montreal YMCA continued t 
play an active part in the international relations of the movement. 
| 


W. Norman Clelland, Chairman, John Houlding, Special Names Chairmedl 
and Branch Chairmen led the fund-raising activities of the program. 
$41,500 was contributed by members of all ages and by individual aril 
corporate supporters in the community. 


LL 


WORLD TOUR 


Fifteen Montrealers, including several members of the Board of 
Directors, participated in the YMCA World Service tour in the 
Fall of 1966. Purpose of the trip - to observe firsthand how 

Y operations abroad are adapted to meet varying conditions of 
countries in which they are located. Members of the party were 
deeply impressed by the YMCA at work in the far and middle east. 


MONTREALERS OVERSEAS 


Bob Fox, a graduate of Sir George Williams University and a YMCA 
secretary-in-training, went overseas for a year's service for the 
YMCA and UNESCO with Arab refugees in the Gaza Strip. 


WORLD SERVICE IN A NUTSHELL 


"To give a hand up, not a handout," is how Joel E. Nystrom, 
Executive Secretary of the International Committee of YMCAs, 
capsuled the approach of the Y's World Service Program during a 
brief stop-over in Montreal. 


The International Committee is the policy-making U.S.-Canadian 
body which administrates self-help YMCA projects in overseas 
countries. 


"Our objective is to help others accomplish THEIR objectives and 


develop in each country a self-building, self-supporting, self- 
extending organization," Mr. Nystrom told a group of businessmen. 


"NEW _LOOK'' WORLD SERVICE 





Over the past two years, the Canadian YMCA has been seeking ways 
to expand, strengthen and establish more direct relationships with 
YMCAs in overseas countries. 


It wants to do this by initiating service projects that will be 
clearly identified as originating in Canada. These are to be in 
additon to work undertaken as a partner in the International 
Committee, which receives financial support from the Canadian YMCA. 


12 


Such activities will be supported with surplus funds raised during 
World Service financial campaigns. All projects will require 
approval of the National World Service Committee and the overseas 
association involved. 


A Special Projects Committee is now drawing up plans for the 
Montreal YMCA's participation in this new program. 


OVERSEAS VISITORS 


Among the visitors to the Montreal Association during the past 
year were; Teclemaimanot Menghistreab, YMCA of Asmara, Ethiopia; 
Jake Smythe, Fraternal Secretary, YMCA of Ethiopia; R.C.S. Cooke, 
YMCA Jaffna, Ceylon; and Don Marks, Fraternal Secretary, YMCA 
Caracas, Venezuela. 


CENTENNIAL-EXPO 


Chairman C.A. Morrison and Projects Director A.W. Kemball of the 
Montreal YMCA's Centennial-Expo 67 Committee helped plan, co-ordina 
and stimulate interest in a wide range of activities and services 
during the period under review. 


The Committee's objectives included a program of education with 
particular emphasis on youth. It was designed to take advantage of 
the opportunities that would be available through Expo, the world 
conferences and symposiums held in 1967, and the visits by groups 
and representatives of all countries in which the YMCA operates. 


Facilities to accommodate and assist visitors were set up in Kamp 
Kanawana, Camp Otereke and the Ile Perrot Summer Camp Centre. 
Arrangements were also made to house out-of-town boys and girls 
with limited budgets. 


The Y's 48-acre property on Ile Perrot now has: 90 trailer sites 
and 100 camp sites, many with electrical facilities; two swimming 
pools; changing rooms; sanitation facilities; a recreation building; 
a small Chalet for meetings or overnight accommodation; a two-store 
administrative centre; picnic grounds and playing fields. 


A Central Information Office and an International Rendez-Vous Loung 
were also set up in Downtown Branch. The information office, to be 
open for the period of Expo, proved from the outset to be one of 
the most popular and helpful services offered by the Y. 


13 


Details of all services offered by the Montreal Y were listed in 
a brochure. 75,000 copies were printed and distributed to all 
YMCA's in the world. 


CROSS-CANADA RUN 


Fitness-conscious members of the Business Men's Health Club decided 

a Cross-Canada Run would be an appropriate way to mark this country's 
centennial celebrations. Progress of the 10,000-mile race was 
reported in considerable detail by all news media and observed with 
keen interest by representatives from all levels of government. The 
distance was logged in Downtown Branch's gym and pool. 


FINANCE AND PROPERTY 


FINANCIAL CAMPAIGN 


The Annual Subscription Campaign was held February 13-27. John W. 
McGiffin was General Chairman while A.L. Fairley, Jr., headed the 
Special Names Division. 


Division chairmen were; W.J.H. Fair, Downtown; J.M. Anderson, 
Northwestern; B.A. Burgess, International; F.W. Davidson, West Island; 
W.A. Devereaux, Northmount; W.L. Ridley, Westmount; G.T.L. Andrews, 
Lachine-Dorval; F.G. Peterson, Verdun-LaSalle. 


Objective of the campaign was $320,000. With some cards still out- 
standing, some $307,000 has now been reported, more than ever before 
realized by a Montreal YMCA annual drive. 


GENERAL FINANCE 





Major endowments during the course of the year have included 
$5,000.00 from Mr. John G. McConnell, $1,000.00 from the Estate of 
the late Amy G. Bissell, and endowment income in excess of $1,000.00 
from the Estate of the late Allan J. Ross. 


Bank accommodation to support construction in Sir George Williams 
University is in excess of $7,500,000.00. It is expected that 
these borrowings will eventually be reimbursed by the Province of 
Quebec .and by completion of individual and corporate pledges of the 
Public capital campaign. 


14 


PROPERTY 


Due to increased demand for Downtown accommodation, both presently 
being experienced and anticipated during the Expo period, a further 
floor of the Stanley Street Residence Building was renovated. Room 
rental costs were increased slightly and residence policy was 
examined to provide for a higher lever of transient traffic. These 
facilities continue to provide a major portion of YMCA revenues, 
without which serious curtailment of overall activities would be 
inevitable. 


In preparation initially for the accommodation of Expo visitors, an 
subsequently as an expanded site for summer day camp activity, the 
Ile Perrot property was developed as a camping and trailer site for 
Expo visitors. It is expected that two-thirds of the capital inves 
ment will be recovered from Expo operations. 





Other property improvements have included two new water heaters in 
the Downtown Building, major renovations to the N.D.G. ventilating 
system, and complete overhaul of the dumb waiter facilities in the 
Downtown Cafeteria. 


STR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY AND SCHOOLS 





Henry F. Hall Building Opened 


A highlight of the 1966-67 academic year was the opening of the 
Henry F. Hall Building in time for the start of the fall term. It 
quickly became apparent that this imposing new facility would 
permit us to improve our academic programs and services. 


The building was officially opened October 14, 1966, by the 
Honorable Jean-Jacques Bertrand, Minister of Education in the 
provincial legislature. Dr. Henry F. Hall, who assistéd in the 
inauguration and Dr. Paul Gérin-Lajoie, Dr. Wilfred N. Hall and 
Dr. Omond Solandt, were presented with honorary degrees that evenin 
The awards were for outstanding contributions to society as a whole 
and the University in particular. 


PROGRAM EXPANDED 
Graduate programs were introduced in Chemistry and in Theoretical 


Physics. Four other programs were approved during the year. Three 
of these, in Economics, History and the Teaching of Mathematics, 


15 


will start in the 1967 fall term. The fourth, in Engineering, 
will be offered in 1968. 


The Academic Planning Committee met bi-weekly throughout the year 
to study other possible changes in programming. Plans to establish 
"colleges of general vocational studies" in Quebec were watched 
closely. 


Briefs which urged strongly that SGWU introduce various programs 
for teachers, including courses for teacher certification, were 
received during the year. The list of those who made submissions 
includes the Provincial Association of Protestant Teachers, various 
school boards, the Society for Mentally Disturbed Children and the 
Nursery School Association. All recommendations are being studied 
and it is hoped that concrete proposals for activity in this area 
will be forthcoming shortly. 


The faculties, departments, offices, individual faculty and staff 
members sponsored and participated in an impressive number of 
educational activities. Distinguished academicians and educational 
leaders visited the campus to lecture and participate in seminars. 


RELATIONSHIP WITH THE YMCA 


After considerable discussion it was agreed that SGWU, while 
retaining and strengthening its close ties with the Montreal YMCA, 
should become an equal partner instead of a child. This decision 
was prompted by the growth in size and complexity of the University 
which, under the leadership of Dr. John Smola, Vice Principal, 
Administration will in future manage and control all its administra- 
tive and financial operations. 


CONVOCATION 





Spring Convocation was held at Expo 67's Place des Nations. More 
than 5,000 watched as graduating students received their degrees. 
At the exercises, honorary degrees were conferred upon Dr. Pierre 
Dupuy, who delivered the convocation address, Dr. Jean Drapeau, 


Dr. , 
ah Dr. Gustave Gingras, Dr. Gunnar Mydral and Dr. 


16 


REGISTRATION GAINS 


Registration was substantially higher than in the preceding year. 


Summer 1966 Academic year 1966-67 
Day Evening Day Evening 
246 ZyOLS 4,396 9,588 
Graduate Students 10 23 
Summer 1965 Academic year 1965-66 
Day Evening Day Evening 
3,001 3,796 8,735 
Graduate Students 5 11 


REGISTRATION IN THE SCHOOLS 1966-67 


Summer 1966 1966-67 

High School 1,427 3,661 

Elementary School 88 
Business School 

Day 44 196 

Evening 224 529 

School of Retailing 61 


TOTAL 1,695 





Total 


17,045 
33 


Total 


154532 
16 


17 
MONTREAL YMCA MEMBERSHIP STATISTICAL SUMMARY 


BRANCH UNDER 18 YRS. 18-29 YRS. 30 YRS. & UP. TOTAL MEMBERSHIP 
Downtown 280 5,031 3,246 8,557 
International 355 516 273 1,144 
Lachine-Dorval 533 46 72 651 
Northmount 542 64 117 723 
Notre Dame de Grace 794 380 549 1,723 
Verdun-LaSalle 398 60 199 657 
West Island 3,763 165 1,226 5,154 
Westmount 530 195 506 1,231 

75195 6,457 6,188 19,840 


Total membership at the end of preceding year 18,036. 


Total different members involved in program during the year 32,640. 


CAMPS ENROLLMENT ATTENDANCE 


Campers Camper Days 


Boys 529 10,418 
Men 698 2,740 
Women 704 2,590 
Total camper enrollment 1,931 


Tot 
otal camper days 15,748 


City camps and fun clubs - 6 2,674 32,977 


18 


PERSONAL SERVICES 
Counselling and Interviews 
Employment Placements 
Residence Bookings 


Food Services 


FORMAL EDUCATION 





Sir George Williams University & Schools 


Number of classes - 1041 


COMMUNITY SERVICE 


Number of outside organizations using 
Y Facilities 


GROSS ATTENDANCE 


21,961 


503 


28 , 580 
967 
166, 566 
417,537 


1,520,990 


PROGRAM & SERVICES STATISTICS 


VOLUNTEER SERVICE 





Group Leaders 
On Boards, Committees and Councils 


HEALTH AND PHYSICAL FITNESS 


Gymnasium Activities 

Swimming Classes 

Swimming Tests and Lessons 

Teams, Leagues, Rinks and Playfields 
No. of individuals taught to swim 
Athletic Events 


GROUPS AND CLUBS - 2,113 


Purpose and fellowship clubs 
Interest groups and classes 


INFORMAL EDUCATION 





Crafts and Hobbies 

Lectures, Forums, and Study Groups 
Motion Pictures and Film Clubs 
Libraries, Book Circulation 


RELIGIOUS EDUCATION 


RELIGIOUS EDUCATION 
Meetings, Study Groups, Chapel 
SOCIAL RECREATION 


Sk Shh RECREATION 
Dances, Parties and Social Affairs 
Dramatics and Musical Events 
Trips, Outings, etc. 


ENROLLMENT 


2,173 
2,284 


4,410 
8,955 
10,584 
2,106 
2,363 


34,147 


804 


19 


ATTENDANCE 


7,808 


77,490 
82,162 


5,440 


41,118 


363,622 


8,005 
44,695 
7,576 
163,020 


4,908 


43,140 
3,743 
5,888 


20 


PERSONNEL 
NEW_APPOINTMENTS 
DOWNTOWN BRANCH 
Gary Richards - Membership Secretary and Public Relations Director 
Paul Kemp - Adult Program Secretary 
Richard Begin “ Assistant Physical Director 


Robert Sallery 
Gavin Turley 


Adult Program Director 
Assistant Program Director 


INTERNATIONAL BRANCH 


Robin Wilson ns Physical Director 


LACHINE-DORVAL BRANCH 


Richard Crothers = Assistant Secretary 


NORTHMOUNT BRANCH 


Richard Patten - Assistant Secretary 


NOTRE DAME DE GRACE BRANCH 

Marilyn Johnston * Girls Work Secretary 
Margaret Rae * Associate Hi-Y Secretary 
VERDUN LASALLE BRANCH 

Maryse Rinfret ” Assistant Secretary 


Thomas Raynor as Assistant Secretary 


WEST ISLAND BRANCH 


William Pigott - Assistant Secretary 


WESTMOUNT BRANCH 


Andrew MacDonald - Physical Director 
Kester Winwood “ Youth Work Secretary 





21 


TRANSFERS 


Roger Wilson - Assistant Secretary, Northmount Branch to 
Assistant Secretary, West Island Branch. 

Murray Horn - Assistant Secretary, Lachine Dorval Branch to 
Assistant Secretary, West Island Branch. 

William Russell- Assistant Secretary, West Island Branch to 
Executive Secretary, Verdun LaSalle Branch 

James McCorkell, Physical Director, International Branch to 
Chatham YMCA 

Mossman Dudgeon, Physical Director, Westmount Branch to 
Peterborough YMCA 

Ronald Watt, Youth Secretary, Westmount Branch to Sudbury YMCA 


RES IGNATIONS 





Richard Begin, Assistant Physical Director, Downtown Branch 
Alan Cook, Adult Program Director, Downtown Branch 

Richard Crothers, Assistant Secretary, Lachine-Dorval Branch 
Jack Soule, Assistant Secretary, Lachine-Dorval Branch 

Carol Rollit, Girls Work Secretary, NDG Branch 

William Douglas, Youth Secretary, NDG Branch 

Carol Lennox, Associate Hi-Y Secretary, NDG Branch 

Margaret Johnson, Assistant Secretary, Northmount Branch 
Bruce McFarlane, Executive Secretary, Verdun LaSalle Branch 
E.A. Lowe, Public Relations Secretary, Metropolitan Office. 


DURING THE YEAR LOSS BY DEATH OF FRIENDS OF THE 


ASSOCIATION IS RECORDED WITH REGRET 


Harry Aird J. W. MacGillivray 
Arthur Atkins Dr. S. A. MacSween 
Arthur E. Barber Walter E. Markham 
Js FY" Barrace J.A. McCrory 
Kenneth G. Blackader Arthur L. Melling 
A. Kirk Cameron John P. Moynaugh 
Mrs. Harold Crabtree S.C. Norsworthy 
John H. Davey W. W. Ogilvie 

A.R. Duffield H. C. Reid 

Francis Faure J. K. M. Ross 
James M. Fraser A. E. Sargent 
Gordon D. Hulme W. W. Southam 

W. H. Howard C.: Thackray 

Albert Leslie Laws O. B. Thornton 


Mrs. H.B. MacDougall J. McT. Wells 





23 
METROPOLITAN OFFICERS 


AND BOARD MEMBERS 


OFFICERS 


Roy Crabtree 
Denton Lewis 

. Halt 

. Kirkpatrick 
. Houlding 

. Corbett 

. Hubbard 

» Rogers 


AmMVBouytayHea 


AQATDUnN! 


DIRECTORS 


. C. Annesley 

. Bailey 

J. F. Bancroft 
. Bennett 

W. Bradshaw 

H. Burdon 

F. Carsley 

. Norman Clelland 
Leslie Copland 
. R. Crawford 
Pierre Delagrave 
Fred N. Dundas 

A. L. Fairley, Jr. 
John B. Frosst 
Fraser F. Fulton 
David Gill 

E. L. Hamilton 

G. Arnold Hart 

R. E. Heartz 
Jean-Claude Hébert 
Louis Hébert 


Gaston a ma wc 


A. R. Hicks 
Robert H. Hoppe 
R. A. Irwin 


* 
Deceased 


Honorary President 
President 

lst Vice-President 
2nd Vice-President 
3rd Vice-President 
Honorary Treasurer 
General Secretary 

Assistant General 

Secretary 


lex Kabbash 

. Kendrick 

. McGiffin 
Macdonald 

. Morrison 

. Murray 

. V. Norsworthy 
. H. Oxley 
Frank B. Peterson 
Gordon Pim 

W. D. Robb 

Claude Robillard 
A. E. Sargent 
Eric’ J. Stafford 
Stuart G. Steele 
Maurice F. Strong 
Irving R. Tait 
Morley G. Taylor 
O. B. Thornton 
C.L. Walker 

J.L. Walker 
George C. Wallace 
Colin W. Webster 


A 
J 
Js 
W. 
D 
R 
E 
K 


mawWWProsaa 


24 


BRANCHES 


Downtown 
International 
Lachine-Dorval 
Northmount 

Notre Dame de Grace 
Verdun-LaSalle 

West Island 
Westmount 

Kamp Kanawana 


CHAIRMEN 


H. Bennett 
Alex Kabbash 
R. F. Murray 
Gordon Pim 
T. H. Burdon 
R. Bailey 


Stuart G. Steele 


W. D. Macdonald 


Eric Stafford 


EXECUTIVE 
SECRETARIES 


Hryhorchuk 
Gray 

Skaling 

. Rouse 

. M. Singleton 

. Russell 

Ross Bannerman 
. McKelvie 

Ross Seaman 


rPAUSBaoWWaC 


CHAIRMEN OF METROPOLITAN STANDING COMMITTEES 


Executive 

Finance and Property 
Investment 
Endownment 

Public Relations 
Building 

World Service 

Salary 

Personnel 

Boy's Camp 

Program 

Planning and Development 
Special; 
Centennial/Expo' 67 


W. N. Hall 

A. R. Hicks 

W. C. Corbett 

J. R. Crawford 
Victor G. Baker 
Irving R. Tait 
Norman Clelland’ 


SAMAAS 


Qa 


. A. 


Irwin 
A. Irwin 
J. Stafford 
H. Oxley 
S. Kirkpatrick 
A. Morrison 


ao 


ADVISORY BOARD 


T. H. Atkinson Frederick Johnson 
Henry G. Birks R. R. Johnson 

G. W. Bourke Herbert H. Lank 
Joseph M. Breen B. A. Leslie 
Arthur H. Campbell A. Wesley Mason 
Murray R. Chipman Herman Mawhinney 
L. H. T. Clegg John G. McConnell 


. McKeown 
. McLagan 


* John H. Davey J. D 
S. G. Dobson T. R 
George V. Ferguson D. R. McMaster, Q.C. 
Hon. G. B. Foster, Q.C. R. O. McMurty 
J. A. Fuller F. R. Phelan 
B. C. Gardner R. E. Powell 
G. B. Gordon B. W. Roberts 
H. J. Hannaford Howard I. Ross 


R. D. Harkness H. Greville Smith 
George M. Hobart R. E. Stavert 
George R. Hodgson Guy Tombs 

R. Gi Holden, Q.€. A. E. Walford 

S. C. Holland F. B. Walls 

A. C. Jensen Edward C. Wood 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY AND SCHOOLS 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 


Fraser F. Fulton Chairman and Chancellor 

C. F. Carsley Vice-Chairman 

S.C. Holland Vice-Chairman 

R. C. Rae Principal and Vice- 
Chancellor 

Walter G. Attridge T. Denton Lewis 

J. G. Bradley Peter M. McEntyre 

Allan Bronfman Frank W. McIntosh 

W. C. Corbett George W. Millar 

Lionel Coté Charles B. Neapole 

C. Alex Duff ; Ralph D. Perry 

Fred N. Dundas J. Richards Petrie 

John B. Frosst Irving R. Tait 

Henry F. Hall John W. Tait 

Eric L. Hamilton Henry Valle 

G. Arnold Hart L. P. Webster 

F. G. Hubbard Glen L. Wood 

Peter F. Kerrigan E. Paul Zimmerman 


* Deceased 


26 


METROPOLITAN OFFICES 
1441 DRUMMOND STREET 


Downtown Branch 
1441 Drummond Street 
Montreal 25, Quebec 


INTERNATIONAL BRANCH 
5550 Park Avenue 
Montreal 8, Quebec 


Lachine-Dorval Branch 
3955 Provost Street 
Lachine, Quebec 


Northmount Branch 
1455 Rochon Street 
Montreal 9, Quebec 


CAMPS 


Kamp Kanawana 
St. Sauveur, Quebec 


Voyageurs de la Verendrye 
La Verendrye Park, Quebec 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS UNIVERSITY 
1435 Drummond Street 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS SCHOOLS 
1435 Drummond Street 


Evening High School 
Business School 


Notre Dame de Grace Branclt 
4335 Hamton Avenue 
Montreal 28, Quebec 


Verdun-LaSalle Branch 
7105 LaSalle Boulevard 
Verdun, Quebec 


West Island Branch 
170 St. Louis Avenue 
Pointe Claire, Quebec 


Westmount Branch 
4585 Sherbrooke Street, W 
Montreal, Quebec 


Camp Otoreke 
St. Adolphe de Howard, 
Quebec 


YMCA Ski Lodge 

Camp Otoreke 

St. Adlophe de Howard, 
Quebec 


School of Retailing 
Elementary Evening School 


