Vol.LV.,No.3~ July 6,1935. 
THE GREEN TRIANGLE 


Here we are with the third edition of the Green Triangle for 
1935, and though contributions this week have been more numerous than 
previously, still we feel that the campers are not supporting their paper 
as they should. Rally round, then, ye gifted Kanawanians, amd simply 
ovwrwhelm the editorial department with your valuable contributions. Rnd 
remember, we print everything! 
=000= 


The-Toreh_Ceremony,1935. 


Iast Sunday evening the fires of Kanawana were kindled in a 
beauti@ul Torch Ceremony symbolic of World Friendship and Brotherliness, 
one which will live long in the memory of all who attended. 

The Council Ring was the scene of the main activities. There 
the whole camp gathered in expectation of something fine; nor were they 
disappointed. Chief opened proseedings in a short speech about the two 
Fires of Friendship, at Vaumarcus, Switzerlandin 1925, and at Toronto 
in 1933, and their aim to "Send men forth with a wider vision of Christian 
fellowship and determined to work for peace and goodwill among men.” 

Then, from a torch kindled at the Toronto fire, boys representing each of the 
continents kindled torches of their own, each bringing greetings from the 
boys he represented; then all together, with their brands symbolising 

the unquenchable flame of previous Fires of Friendship, they lighted the 
first Kanawana fire for 1935. 

Immediately runners were dispatched with flaming torches to 
light the other fires of Kanawana. In the interval bwfore their return 
natives of nine different countries then in camp told something 
of the youth of their own land, Then the runners returned, their reports 
were made, yet still the camp sat on in profotmd silence, having captured 
something of the spirit of the fire. 

When finally the gathering did break up, we all returned to camp 
feeling th t we had caught a broader vision of world friendship, and 
determoned to lend our aid towards obtaining world peace. 


-000- 


Iast Sunday morning saw the first service in the beautiful woodland 
chapel, which was conducted by the Junior Section. Amid the tall straight 
trees, with Lake Kanawana ghimmering in the background, Mr. Taylor 
addressed the Camp on "What Christ has Meaht to China." We are anticipating 
another such impressive service to-morrow morning. 


-000- 


Thursday night another milestone in Kanawana for 1935 was passed- 
the pyjama parade. To the martial strains of Robert Greening&s accordian and 
Doug MacDonalds bugle and the not so melodious tones of Ken Clark's 
makeshift drum, the whole camp, dressed in pyjamas or less, marched down to 
the post office to receive the day's mail and as many oranges as possible. 


Of course, all the belles of Mile Hill were present, under the glare of numerous 


flash lights; but the real hit of the evening was the Chief in his purple striped 
with yellow pgjamas. Even Ralph Flitton in his lone hand towel couhdn't 
steal the show from Chief. 

~o00=- 


During the course of last week we have welcomed many 
distinguished visitors to Camp. Among them were Mr. Ivan Wong, secretary 
of the Montreal Chinese Y.M.C.A., who brought us messages from China, 
swam the length of the Lake in 33 minutes, and wrote all over our shirts in 
Chinese. Then Mr. Summers and his son of Montevideo, Uruguay, taught us 
much about South America. And Mr. Patterson of the Westmount Y gave us a 
welcome glimpse of Japan. 

=-000=- 


Senior Hike. 


The Seniors - yea, the whole six campers and five leaders - 
wnet on their way rejoicing for an overnight hike to Morin Heights. Although 
we Jave it on good authority that the whole police foree (One man) is in the 
hospital, and that the streets now have torepaved, the Seniors don't seem to b e 
any the worse for wear. 
-000= 


Notice to All Campers. 

The Camp has hired detectives to trace down the many mysterious case 
of dirty dishes being left by the sinkd. And we're warning you = you guilty 
campers look outt 

~000= 
Another Notice. 

To the first five boys applying to Chief MacDiarmid in the Cottage 
before four o’clock Sunday moring, he will give one chocolate bar each. 
Remember now, there is a treat in store for yout 

-o00- 

Wally Campbell has been hooked at last = he was married this afternoon. 
We're pulling for you, Wallyt 

Already now three bull sessions have been held in the renovated 
Leaders’ room = we're hoping for moret 

-000- 
Final Stock Market QuotatiOns. 
International Nickel - 2 for a dime. 
Ford Motors ~< very shaky. 
Pyrene Fire Extinguisher ~ not so hot. 


Allen Safe <- Try a crack at this. 


Dominion Rubber - after a good season this stretched to 46. 


Montreal Power = pretty weak. 

Allied Chemical - buy this = their business was booming all year. 
Gold Dust = hard to get. 

National Cash Register - no sale. 

Scott Tissue touched a new bottom to-day and thousands were wiped oute 


=-o00= 


Kanawana Thru’ A Kayhole, by Shoop. 
You can take it from Doc Weaver, the girls at Junior Camp sure are Friendly. 
Is Ken Clarke having a hard time keepihg Lorraine away from the rest of the boys? 


As youmcan't see the Chief through a keyhole, we havn't anything on him 
this week. 


Clarke"Gable" Merritt is a loyal Kanawanian. Does he know his yells! 


And now the same old cry comes from Ralph Flitton,"Why don't they move Marois 
nearer?” 


Is it true that Ric Wright is called "Inspiration" over at Marois? 


Ernie Taylor wants to take a hike tp Otoreke. Is it because it is a mixed camp 
this year? 


In the last beauty contest art Jeffries was given first prize. 
A bouquet of flowers to doug Macdonald for trying to find a short cut to Marois. 


Why, oh why, can't leaders return from their afternoons off before dinner the 
neat day? 


What does Bié@l Paul know about female backs? 


And why are Harold Marcou and Ralph Flitton joining the Marois Club? And 
planning to rent a cottage there when their stay in Camp is over? 


The seniors are some experienced campers - on an overnight hike they choose 
a hardwood floor to sleep on. 
-000- 


Dorothy Dix. 


Dear Miss Dix, 

last time Doug Macdolald came to see me he started 
to kiss me. Of course I séid stop, but he wouldn't. What should I have done 
next? 


Yours truly, 
Betty. 


Dear Betty, 
Nothing, you did your duty. 
Yours, Dot. 


-000= 


Dear Do, 
Thw other day a girl I never even saw before smiled at me. 
What do you think about that ? 
Curly Carmichael. 


Dear Golden Locks? 
That's nothing; the first time I saw you I almost laughed 


out loud. 
Miss Dixe 


Dear Miss Dix, 
What kin® of larceny would you call it if I were to steal 
a kiss from you? 
Phil Brodeur. 


Oh dear Phil, 
I would say it was simply Grand. 


Yours hopefully, 
Dorothy. 
~000~ 


We have just received word that The Staff beat the unbeatable Juniors 
by the svore of 7 - 6. Hurry for the Staff. 


=-000~. 


