x . @®HE GREEN TRIANGLE N #1 


Baseball, benanas, brotherhood, each in its own placeand way meets with our 
approval, and they have nothing in common but the letter B., we have friends that have m 
more than this in common, but are most dear to us because of thier differences, it 
is their unsimilarity that gives them character. Quebec has many boys camps, Most of 
them good ones, in many respects they seemvery much alike, and yet, when one comes 
to know them intimately, they are as different in character as many of our best friends. 

What is the character of Kamp Kanawena ? What distinctive feature does it have — 
that makes it different from the many other camps which seem at first sight to resemble ; 
it closely? 

The physical features of Kanawana are not very much different to other camps, 
some camps may have finer equipment than we have,some camps have better swimming 
facilities for beginners than we have,eme camps have more boats and more canoes and 
even sailing boats. Other camps have horses for the boys to ride and so we might go 
on bi? ig attention to many things we do aot have at Kanawanae 


But none of these things are what gives.a camp it's character. These are the . 
things that make all camps more or less alike. 

What then are the tb&agachbAt distinctive characteristics of Kanawana? 
What are the things that parents and friends notice? What features of Kanawana have 
made the greatest impression oncampers in the years gone by ? Is it that contagious 
spirit throughbut all the activities of the Camp that seem to stand out in the memory 
of those who have camped here, and also in the memories of our friends who visit us 
from time to time. 


This is the thing which makes Kanawena different from so many other camps, 
this is the thing which we want to keep up and instill into the hearts and the minds 
of the boys who are at Kanawana for the first time this year. 


As the Green Triagfe makes it's first appearance for the 1933 season may I 
wish for every camper a most happy and prfitable summer in gamp. liay you find in < 
Kanawana all those things which will help you grow and develop in the Jesus way of 
life~-xhexthietx 


The Chief 


It was with great sadness that we learned this week of Bill Bourne's drowhing in 
Brome Lake, on Friday Zune 30th while attempting to save the life of his friend. 

As a camp wes cannot but feel sensitive of the loss of perhaps the finest leader 
we have ever knowne Those boys who were fortunate enough to be in his tent last year 
and all others who came into contact with Bill will never forget his example. : 

But in the world at large those of us who knew him implacable is gonee Unself- 
ish, pieen hearted, manly= Bill Bourne was the type of man whomzmmmst we cannot spare. 

"He loved chivalry, 

Sein and honor, freedom and courtesy, 

He was a very perfect gentle Imight" 


. Page 2 
~ Social Colum _ 


Last Thursday night a reception was given by the ghosts of the haunted hoyse 
to all Kanawana campers. 

Meany new campers who had never seen & ghost, began early in the day to make 
preparations for the event of their lives.e Leaving camp at seven pem. all tread 
steadily and quietly along, past the desorbed village, thru the bush,amdd long 
before the sun had set, reached the clpeming containing the haunted housee A camp 
fire had been prepared by an advance party and when all had arrived at the scene 
the Chief called the tribes together and put over a good progrem which consisted 
of some legends, a sing-song, and some stunté. Follwwing taps the fire was exstinguished 
and all gave a hasty glancs toward the dreaded building mw ar-by. When a regular thinder 
of mee Imocking has lessened to a rumble, the older campers explained that there was 
nothing to be feared as the spirits never appeared except when the wind blew from the mx 
east and when the moon and the stars were invisible to the eye. All arrived back at camp 
sage and anticipating the time when the elements favored the appearance of t i dread- 
ed oneSe : 


Senior Camp Orgenization Council 


A representative organizgtion was establikhgd in the Senior Camp during the past 
week to assist in the plaming of the general activities of the this section. Messrs 
Kneeland, Bourque, Ross and Fairbairn were appointed to positions of President and 
three councilmen respectivelye 

A flexible program was drawn up and the duties of the council outlinede 

in the Senior 

The main thought back of our representative erguntation organization saxkoxmks 
Section, is to make all activity, insofar as it is possible to do so, conform to the 
general desires and the wishes of the majority in this sectione It is considered that th 
the fellows can, and will, submerge personal desires and ambitions to the general goode 
To that end will the established regime work. Thus far the fellows seem to have co-oper 
ated to the fullest extent. 


Bob Kneeland and H.M.Devenney 


Junior Church Service 


A 


On Sunday July 2nd our first outdoor chapel service was helde The Junior Section 


was in charge and Mr Buckley gave the addresse Max Exworth and Currie Carmichael assisted - ; 


atthe service while Mrs Harold Mills and Walter Ward favored us with solos. There were 
many visitors in camp and most of them attended the servicée 


Opening of the New Ritz 
The Junior Director's new Ritz was officially opened on Thursday evening with the 
get together of the Staff and the Leaders. Mr Buckley, the host, was assistec by the 
Chief and the Doctor. The attractive building situated just back of the monument, isa 
welcome addition to the camp as the old Ritz gad outlived it's usefulness. The entire 
camp joins in wishing the New Ritz good lucke 


Spopts Section 


The Staff versus The World 
Staff 


Bast Saturday saw the first fxt% vs The World Baseball game this season, the Staff 
coming out on the short end by 14-11. The game was well enjoyed by the spectators and 
phe mosquitoes. The highlight of the game came from Mr Howard Langille who stopped a 
fast one with his left headlight and sedured a dirty lampe The umpire, Mike McNaughton 
made a good job of calling everything he could see and some of the things that he did ~ 
not see. As a record crowd is expected the next game it would be well to get your cit- 
ronella early and avoid disappoigtment. 


Marois versus Kenawana 


The first of the home and home series betwenn Marois and Kanawana was marked by 
many erprpgsson the part of the Marois players, due perhaps to the wet ball. The decision 
good and bad left no openings to criticisms. 

At the end of the fifbhimexmg inning the score was nine to two for Marois. The siz 
th iming saw-thirteen runs added to the Kanawaha score. The score ended with Marois on 
the short end-- 23 to ll. 

Brooks was the individual star. Dewitt and the Doctor shared the highest batting 
average honors with e 395. Dewitt and Ross bagged homers while the Doo and Lewis gave 
the Marois boys a lesson in successfull bunting. 

Throughout the game the excellent sportsmanship of the visiting team tek gave 
a tough to the game which made it worthwhile. : 


Ye Hosbipie of ye Stone age Goolfe and Coontrie Cloob 


During the first week of the camp activites the golf experts and the designers 
comprising the whole senior camp got together to discuss the serious problem of building 
a@ golf course and tims eliminating a grave deficiency in the camp's sporting activities. 
After much surveying on the North side of the lakme, no suitable site could be found 
to please the delicate artistic taste of the designers. It was then decided to brave the 
trecherous waters of Lake Kanawana and to seek a site on it's distant shores. After mech 
deliberation a site was discovered commanding a magnificent view of the further end of 
lake Kanawana and some of the mountains beyonde It is needless to discuss the abilities 
of the various golf technicians and architects and how they easily met and dealt with 
each problem the arose in the construction of the golf course. Any one playing on the 

course will appreciate this without any question. Upon the completion of the course 
the golf experts got busy and drew up the rules which may be read and digested if you ax 
lucky enough to see a copy. But whether you have read the rules or not you mst obey theme 


Juvenile Overnight Hike 


2 On Tuesday afternoon the hike got under way afiter a little delay in obtaining 
@quipment, and food. The gang started out in good form and went along well. Howard did 
not tell the boys how far they were going so that there were numerous questions con 
cerning the location. After a while some of the blankets became unrolled and things ¢ 
began to happen. Howie McQueen started to threw his tooth paste and brush all over the 
road. We finally camped about half a mile mbthe other side of the Junior League Camp 


ee en Page Bour wot oh oe ee 
Ee = ~ 3 
 Gontimed | 
The situation was good but milk and drinking water were out of the question. We had a , 
substantial supper of time honored beans and bread after which we settled down for the 
- night. 


After a few hours rest we awoke thikking it was about six o'clock. With a breakfast 
of hard bbbled eggs end jam, or if you preferred,bacon and aggs wundér ou belts, we were 
told that it was time to leave. §S 


So after an hour's clearing up we started back to camp and arrived in camp at 9.30 Seme 
thinking that it was about twelve o'clocke 


News Flashes 


Doc has patient before he get&® off truck #---=- Dave Morton swimm lake and ‘two thirds-- 

Did you see the new roof on the hospital---~Buckley receives beautiful cup-fer having 41 

on the golf course----we miss some of the old leaders- but not as much as Marois-= Geo 

Brugman md his gang are giving us a new chapel, nice work George==- Mike McNaughton is 

again partly with use--<= First member to kamp Kanawana hole in in one club- John Hartley. 
Doug Clarke re-enters hospital--= we now have two new juveniles-=-= Ralph Allen-maintains 

his usual rush of letters-= Turfus sets new record for the length of the lake-sAlf Schnett s ~ 
theme song, “The Cat Came Back" or"Carry Me Back to the Ballfield, Dear" ----. 

Boyce wins the sentor camp ping pong tournament------ Junior Camp Chew Gum League 

is ell stuck up -- Kanawana holds first big council Ring (on petition 
Battle of century held on lake. Seniors use allkinds of msical indvunants as weapons -= 
Kenawena gets a new well,guess when.----About 200people in camp,(not counting Frenchy)« 
The editors brain is not clogg edumyxx any more.-----The Chef has his holiday on Wed.--- 


= In old Kenaweanea «= 


WeWould to Know Why------- 
Who writes to Fred Turfus? 
How 2 Howard gets to know the Marois fol® so well? 
Why Boc. goes over to Becsis ? 


Why Bob Kneeland stops on the way to Marois? 
Why the Juveniles stopped am so near to the Junior League Camp. 


What happened to the new well? 
How Chief is getting with his golf 7? 
Why Turfus spehds so many hours in the lodge after lights? : 


sa Wea ee Page Fives 


DORTHY DIX'SY ADVISE 10 THE LOKE LORN 


Dear Dorthy Dix, 
Meny women have entered my life, but you are stillthe only thexe girl 
in the world for meo Perhaps it is the mystery about yoy that facinates me. What 
you say if I kissed you? 
: Yours curiously, 


Zé 


Wally Kemball. 


ro 
Dear Wallace, 
I woujd not be ina position to say anything 


Seema we ee 


Dear Miss # Dix, 
z I once attended Queens University,but I am stilltrying to find out 
Wether co-eds are afraid of Kissing « 
Yours in dispair, 


Doce MoKelvey. 


Dear Doce, been 
Are you trying to fool us. Tsh} Tsh't A lot mst have xax goingoon right under 
your nose. SEs: : 


oe ee ee er an aw Se ee 


TEar Dot. : 
Have you any idea what X will be gdbing on in Ste Sauveur this summer? Is 
xm there any prospectof having a goodtime there? 


Yours 
Jim MEL1s. 


Dear Jim, 
The prospects in 8-St.Sauvey look quite grey. 3 ge 


Dear Dorthy,All the girls keepchasing me although I do not want to get married. fhey 
say I am just being selfish. What excuse can I give for being a bachelor? 


Eddie DeWitt 


Dear Eddie, 
You could tell them that you were not borne that Waye 


mann nn— AAAI IIA AAA 


