Kanawana 


Gas-Bag 


A Record of Life at 


Kamp Kanawana 


Fourteenth Season 
B ee Mae nee | 
June 23rd to September Ist 


BODE TORE AL 


The Re-eunion Number of the Gas-bag is a 
brief review of the activities at Kanawana during the 
Season of 1923. There is some good-natured banter and 
a little would-be humor, but the aim on the whole, has 
been to present a truthful record of events to which old 
campers will be glad to turn in the days ahead to refresh 
the memory of very pleasant times indeed. 


The casual reader who has not been one of 
our number at cemp, glancing over these pages, no doubt,be 
disappointed. He wili wonder at ovr enthusiasm over trifles 
and will smile at the pleasures of which we speak. For those 
of us, however, who were at Kanawana this little booklet 
will be a very real treasure 


We often think of the things we did in those 
precious weeks ~ the evenings ureund the fire with their . 
story-telling qnd their sing-songs; the swimming and boating; 
the baseball games just at sunset; the Senior Camp Shows and 
Beanlet; the hike to Otoreke and many more. How anxious we 
are that none of them shall be forgotten, 


And then, there is something else we enjoyed 
at Camp, which we called the camp spirit. We must never 
lose it. The impression camp left on us, the lessons it 
taught us of what i+ means to live, the inspiration to give 
our lives in service that came to us through the friendships 
we formed there- these must never pass away. And they never 
shall. They live on in us,and, carefully nourished will grow 
from year to year until at last they break forth in the rich 
bloom of a young manhood, pure within, and dedicated to the 
ceuse of all that is true and good and beautiful in the world. 


June 


July 


23. 
25. 


29. 


Te 


17. 
18. 


19. 


MILESTONES OF SEASON, 1923. - 


Grand opening of Camp 

Camp elections, Kickers, under the leadership 
of Barney Eagle returned +0 power. 

Chief starts his famous backtop-"Nuff" said. 
Giants partake of their Chicken Dinner for — 
winning the Twilight league, after which the 
chute comes into action. 


First Senior Show of the Season, featuring Deacon 
Snowball, Percy Primrose, ~*~ Laughs a-plenty. 
Mock Trial. Dave Buick put on trial for assaulting, 
with intent to kill "Shorty" Robertson. Judge Eagle 
shines as usual, and proposes to Flossie Fuclose, 
the chief witness in the case. 

Senior Camp fixes the trail to the Council Ring. 
Great excitement in the staff Vs.World Ball Game, 
which the World wins 6-5. Chief's face badly 
treeted by foul balls. Central "Y's muchpheralded 
Minstrel Show. 

Buve Hart breaks the trail to Marois. 

Commencement of Hike Week. Parties leave for Val 
Morin, Lac Hughes, Ste.Agathe, Sixteen Island Lake, 
Lec Wilson, and Page's, 

All parties back but that of Binll Steeves. Oh! where 
is our wandering boy to-night? Three guesses! 

Pie and coffee served out free gratis around Senior 
Camp fire. Mr.Webb very conspicuous. 

Hardie, at one blow, cancels seconds on everything 
but staples. 

Bill Steeves' party returns at last with dancing 
pumps worn out. 

Second Camp Elections. The Knockers, under the 
guidance of Dave Hart, spring a surprise by bringing 
home the bacon. A change is as good as a rest. 
Many compers, gently persuaded, by the use of pillows, 
hot-endings,etc., to change their votes. 

Westmount wins Regatta. 

Boxing Entertainment. Monty Allen and Dave MacLaren 
provide the fireworks. Result, one black eye each. 
Other minor cuts, © _- Squeaks and Cancer fight 
+o a finish. : 

Senior "Full 'o Pep" Revue starring Gallagher and 
Sheen and"Pho Papers". Chief Davis, Hardie, and 
Bill Steeves badly roasted. Pie-cating contest 
after the Show, for Actors only, easily won by 

Fred Webb. 


July 


s 


20. 


21. 


24. 


ae 


20. 


21. 


22. 
23. 


24. 


a Par 


ir Cuiton's bridge over the Suez completed 

after much hard work. ay 
Gellegher and Sheen decide to finish the backstep. 
The job is dore. Tarzan and Ruck Clarabut visit 
cemp in their bus. “Senior Camp show repeated 
with the addition of the Hargreaves Brothers, 

who were brought up by the Kinsmen. adr ing 
Church Service with the Scouts near Tamare.coutes 
Vickers’ Scouts Brass Band give a Concert. 
Initiations in the evening. Fun for all,but 

the worm turns. s 

Mock Triel. Femous case of Mr .Webb-. Two letters 
from Frances read in court. In the end Mr .Webb 
norritly acquittec. , 

North Branch "Carry on” Revue, featuring “The Trials 
of a Manager." iti . 
Chief spends all his money at the Auction Sale. 


Pyjama Parade for the penefit of the farmers. 

party from Otoreko up on a visit. 

Renl Indien dancing at Council Ring. 

Davé-Laidlaw becomes Premier. & 2a 

Sonior "Dumbell" Revue, headed by a graceful 
Spanish Dance by Wilf Eagle and partner. Dave Hart 
makes afew announcements which ere greqtly appre- 
¢iated. : 
Sing-Sing Service around tho Senior raft in the 
evening. : 

Hike to Senior Cemp at Ot ore ke ~ 

Athletic Meet and impromptu Show at Ste~-Adolphe. 
Mock Trial. Bill Stone charged with preach of 
promiso. Letter Written by Bill +o Margarot Currie 
produced. Found quilty and senterced to a trip 
down the long,long trail to the Lake. Sentence 

to be carried out the folhowing morning - 

First and last production of a TragisComody called 
"Beanlet". in four acts. Everybody dead but the 
ert. No ono disputes his cleim to tho throne~ Some Cat! 


ee a 


Cencer decides to tnke a wash, Great consternation. 
Allan Cornell and Dave Hert leed the girls out of 
the wilderness of Marois into Kanawana, tho land of 
pleaty -- 

Big mixed Regatte, during which some horrid boys put 
a visitor and a camper dow tho chute. Mixed bell 
game 2 howling success, also the dance, in which 
Allan, Nick, and Doe shine ~ 

Chief also conspicuous with a bow tie and @ crease 
in his trousers. Return by moonlight an added 
foature- 

Dave Hart not yet recovered. 


Aug. 


25.6 
27. 


28. 


29.. 


30. 


31. 


3- 
Closing Senior Show of the Season. 
Last appeerence of Gelleghor and Sheen." 
Comic Dialogue "Veit a Minit” 
Doc and Chief dow the chute for going through the 
Suoz in a canoe. Big fight of tho yeer follows, 
blood and mud. Morechute. 
Famous "Bucket Brigade" innaction, filling the 
tank. Much rain in addition. Two non-helpers 
rolled in the mud. 
Boxing entertainment. Feature bout of the evening. 
Gowan vs Dafter. Many blows exchanged. Three 
fast and furious rounds. 
Special Leaders’ Party at Lake Marois. Chief insists 
on being included. Bill Stone, loft in charge of 
Camp, dels sevorely with e mutiny. 
Cemp Cleaning Day. Dave Hart misses his breakfrste 
Closing Council Ring. Record of Camp's activities 
buried with avpropriate ceremony. 
Grand Loaders’ Feed of the year. Ice Crem, pie, 
crenm puffs, honey,corn, biseuits. More ice crean. 
More everything. 
Sad return to Montreel. 


During the summer of 1923 there was a great 
deal of interest shom on the part’ of the boys in repard to 
Badge Work. The number of Badgss given out show en 
increase of about ten percent ovor the previous summer. © 
A fow years aco this werk used to be compulsory end every — 
boy had to take instrustion in, at least, one subject every 
woek. But during the last three years it has been entirely 
up to the boy himself and much bettor results have been 
attained in this way-. 


There are forty-two-different badges that can 
be won and there are special requirements for each badge which 
tho boy must falfill before earning his badge. Besides the 
badgos there are tho "camp letters” which are the highost 
awards possible and sre velued very highly by those who have 
won them. 


The following are the requirements to win a 
lergo "K", the highest award in the Honor Award System. 
First,- the boy must he a second year enmpor, have won his 
smell "k", act as an instructor of some badge for three 
weeks, arrange and take chorgo of two camp activities ,and 
take an ‘active part in, at least ono Sundey Service. 

There were no large “K"s won Inst year but there wore two 
Junior Steff men with their large "K"s in camp all summer, 
namely Reg.Cowan and Allan Corneil. 


The following ere the requirements to win a 
smell "k" and the names of those who earned them during last 
summer : 


lst. Win. Life-Saving and two other Aquatics 


Py sey Bible Study and two other Educational 
cg ie Altruism and two chher Social Serwice 
Ate a Hiko fin two other Sthletic. 

1. Douglas Ross 2. Joh Trimingham 3. Andrew Hamilton. 


Tho following aro the requirements to win a 
Triangle and the names of those who won theirs last summer. 
A camper must win eight bedges composed of two Athletic, 
two Educational, two Aquatic, and two Social Service. 
The following won their Triaygles: 


je Harold Cunninghan. 14, Mareus Birbeck 
2. Charlie Moore 15. Leonard Hutton 
3. Gordon Elliott 15. John Beddoe 

4, Wilf Eagle 17. Bill Robb 

5. Jack Thompson 18. Jaime Camps 

6. Jim Cowmn 19. Stephen Greenlease. 
7. Gorald Hamilton 20. Jack Willmot 

8. Charlie Hickey 21. Norton Watson 

9. Sid Adelstein 22. Laird Payton 
10. George Hamilton 22. Preston Gilbride 
11. Kon Watson 24. Francis Hudson 
12. Jack Farquharson 28, lionel Edwards 
13. Jack Campbell = 26. Bob Adelstein 


27. John Aylon. 


The K.L.S. standing for "Kanawana Life Saver” 
was won by James B.Ross and James Lindsay who had to pass 


tho tests sct by the Roval Life Saving Society for the 
Awerd of Merit. This award is valved vory highly in 
Kanawane.. , 


Tho following are the requirements for the 
Altruism Badge which is the highest possible badge you can 
attoin and the Campor that carns an Altruism Badge certcinly 
has something to be proud of. This badge cannot be tried 
fer or won, but is awerdodttythe eamver by the Cemp Director 
and Lenderse To receive this Badge a camper must show 
himself truly altruistic ,willing +o help the other fellow, 
réoady to live up to the Kanawana spirit and to act as a truly 
true camper. 


The following were presonted with theirs last 
summer: 


1. James B,. Rass 
2. Bill Stoeves. 
3. Andrew Hamilton 
4. Chief Davis 


The following aro the requirements for tho 

Beginners' Swim Badge and the namos of those who enrned their 
badges during last summer, i-c-, learned how to swim. 
The camper must learn how to swim twonty-five yards and take 
a plain dive. NOTE: by teaching a boy how to swim the © 
camp has done a great deal in making the boy's stay at Camp 
much more enjoyable. One of the Cemp’'s main ideas is that 
no boy shall leave the Camp without having at least, learned 
to swim twonty-five yards. The following learned how to 
swim at Camp last summer: 

M.Matthews W.Goldthorpe A-Avorine 

J.Middleton F.Duriwell W.Radcliffe 


‘ ’ 


oben 


~The following is a list of the boys who won, 
at lenxst, two badges during the summer. The first throe in 
order are the ones who won tho most, 


1. Jack Willmot: won 18 
2. Leonard Hutton won 17 
3. Can.Beallantyne won 14 
7 The following won, at least,ten: 


Jim Arter John Aylena Dave Buick 
Norman Cowan Jack Canmpooll Harold Cunningham 
Henry Ewing Andy Earilton “George Hamilton 
Laird Payton Fred Roast Norm .Watsen 


Ken Wetson 
Tnter-Branch Competition 


The Annuel Inter-Branch Competition for the 
Silver Trophies in Athletics and Aquatica was won again by 
Westmount. This makes the third consecutive year thr 
Westmount have won both trophies. z 


ee For Athletics during the summer Westmount 
got a total of fifty-two points, and Central was a close 
second with forty-five points, followed by North Branch 
with seventeen. cs 


For Aquatics, Westmount hed a grandtotal 
of one hundred and eighteen while Central had seventy-one 
and North Branch eleven. 


FAMOUS SATINGSE 


Fatty O'Hara: (after beating <ho prune-eating record of 
128 prurcs}) “Gosh, I can't sce my fcoet now. 
Dave Buick: "The higver thoy sume, the herder they fe11." 
Doc Ross: "4 little pep thore. Show signs of lifo. 
Ave you parhlysed /" 
Chief: "For tho berofit of the newcomers, I might mention 
that we wash ow own diezhes. The aish pans 
are over yeudcer." 
Bill Stono: (reciting) “wake a leok at me boys. How much 
do you think T'm worth?" (voice from rear) 
"about two cente, I should say." 
Stevie Lyman: “Amother little nruno wouldn't do me any herm." 
Dave Hert: "N° scconds, to-day, thanks." (great commotion — 
as the whole table faints) 
Wilf Eaglo: (Doccon Snovonli) “If old Mother Hubbard got 
tTnevl, So van we" 


Shorty Robortson: (Tho himen tat) "Mecw! Meow!" 


LETTER WRITTEN BY Will-he Rattle-if. 


I jest wanted tu tell yu about the grate 
littel hike we hac tm a pitce called Auto Reskee. Gee,it 
woz grate fun$! My apetite wu always poor vefor but ive 
bean eatihg ever ‘sints to maik up fur ‘it. — 

; We had bean in Kamp 49 dais and that looked 
lukky cuz its 7x 7, but it caim on the 13nd of August. 
Sum fellus hiked frum this uther place to Kanawana won day 
and toiled us akout the delishus meels thay et vpp there. 

Now all the bark wuz chood off the treez arounc our Kamp 
and the Cheef wuz hungrie still. He is always hungrie and - 
he is always keeping still. Funny - but as sure as ho herd 
aboat theese meels he tuk Hardy Sifting (he keaps all the 
coin) and begun to run to Auto Reekee. He sed heed he back 
the necket dey..3 dais later they stroles in lookin verie 
fat and happie and sez "the food up yonder is punk". 
So we all soz, "yes, we wanta go and so we depark on the 
Munday after. : 
; This wuz the 13nd. I new it! Lissen- 
The ferst 3 miles wuz good fun, they wuz down the Mile Hill 
and so on. Mister Pagay caiin behind with his chariut to 
carry the grub and Fat O'Hara. The last 97 miles wuant — 
80 good. The map got tirped up semhew and the hills forgot 
ti go down on the vther side so it wuz all upp.We ait wurce 
en the way ard wuz thinkin aboat eating sum more wen Cheef 
cms toa hill end sezs “over yonder is Seint Adolni™ 
I didurvt’sse the Saint but there wuz a leik and a church 
ani a sbore. Besides thie there wuz a barn where we lived. 
Wo landed at the barn jest in time for 
simper - it went fine - bread with sum jam end sua watter 
too. We wuz tircd ond dug down ivto tne nay. Gee, lo Wis 
grate, we ate it all nito and wernt very hungrie by prexfuste 
This wuz grate too - jest the sare as supper but more waiter e 
That a.m. 1 wuz tired but most uv the feilus 
went out in botes, we had 4 botes and only 100 fellas 8° 
their wuz lots of rcom. We wert all over the leik. 
Sum of the felles went on 1ittel bikes but most of us had 
blisters. Doc wuz bizy 211 day with the crippels. 
It begun to rane that nite so we staid in the 
barn all evening. Reg Cohen sang a soloe - something about, 
"Pane, rane, noting but rans 
In the hea it gives me a pane." 
he sings grand - and the rest uv us hollered. Cheef Mackinun 
caim over from the utner Kamo on the iland and tocred to us. 
Hees a grate guy. There wuz lots of room in the barn that 
nite coz everybuddy siept on tho nee.:st felias feet or hed. 

The morning donied brite and clere and Doc maid 
the porige,but he only maid enouf for 50. He thot the rest 
didnt want it. They did. 


That a.m. we had a gaim of baseball aggenst Auto Reekee. 
They beet us 10 to 9, our fellus wuz gettin pritty week 
from hunger by this time. That day Fat O'Hara got so 
week he fell off the hay on hiz hed. It didnt brake 
the floor. , : , set 
That nite we had grate fun. We gaiv a 
show in Greens store. - Everybuddy sang hoo thot they 
cood and sum hoo didnt. Cheef Mackinun gaiv a lot uv prizus 
for the raices we had that day. I forgot to say we had 
a good meel thet day, with stoo and pudding n’everythin. 
We got too bed erly coz we wuz goin home the neckst morning. 
Thursday we had a grate brekfust. Their 
wuz lots uv porige n’everythin coz Hardy didnt want tu — 
taek back all the stuff heed bean saving. Gee, the fellus 
looked queet} Lanky Robertson wuz so thin you coodent 
see enything between hiz boots and hiz cap. On the way 
home sum people saw Ken Rosté and Lanky and sed "Oh! 
look af the starvin Rushin Refugeeze." | 
The fellas nerly ran back to see if 
Sunny wuz still there - I+ wus all downhill enyway ~ 
Cheef didnt hurry, he never duz. We sure wuz happie tu 
get back to Kanawana and nerly dide at the site of food. 
Gosh, it wuz a grate littel hike! 


Yours tm a cinder, 
Will-he Rattle-if. 
SUNNY_HOW LONG... 


4. I went dow to the railway ,put my head on the track, 
But I saw the engine coming SO I pulled it back. 
CHORUS. . 

Oh, Sunny, How long, how long must I wait, 
Can't I have it now, or must T hesitate. 

2. My girl's cross-eyed, that's a fact 
Every time she cries,the tears roll dom her back. 

3, Dave Hart thinks he can sing 
Oh deabh, where is thy: sting? 

A. They're always idding Chief about playing ball, 

I don't see howthey do it when he can't play at all. 

5-I went to see the Doctor's girl the other day, 

Took an apple along 4orkeep the Doctor away, 
6. Sitting in the corner, taking chances, 
What would happen if we wrote +o Frances? 

7. Ashes to ashes, and dust to dust, 

Tf Hardy doesn't loosen up the money will rust. 

8. If all the women lived over the sea, 

What a wonderful swimmer the Chief would be. 


t) 


hareterred 


“THE NORTH BRANCH TRAGEDY. 


A Poet's Version. 


‘4 was the witching how of twelve at night, 
The ste#s were veiled; the moon refused its light; 
The wind was high; the pine trees rocked and tore, 
The breakers rolledrand tossed upon the shore. 
Within the woods in wide half-circle lay, 
six shivering tents, 2 ghostly grim array. 
Within each tent tired Seniors slumbered deep, 
Wrapped in the feathery folds of peaceful sleep. 
All slept,or seemed to sleep,for no one stirred, 
Throughout the camp no human voice was heard. 
Such was their rest. 

Meanvhile, the hour drew on, 
When North Branch tribe would rise,their sweaters don, 
And sit and feast upon the gathered cheer - 
Tes Cream, bananas, cake, and ginger-=beer. 
This was not yet, and through the inky night, 
No candle now shot forth its flickering light - 
Put lo! see what whieh crawls along the ground, 
And that, end that - a dozen shapes abound = 
What can it mean? Some evil'scin the air, 
The helpless sleepers? No, they do not dare, 
And yét they do - Rise, lost it be too late, 
Be not the victims of their venomed hate. 


But North Branch still slept on,while piled 
upon the floor, 
All unprotected lay the lusciovs store, 
A careless heap of deinties rich and sweet} 
Which none save only Boy Scouts can eat, 
Nearer and nearer meanwhile cane the foe, 
Now leaping forward fast, now creeping slow. 
Ten spaces from the tent all clocked their speed; 
Then three went on alone to do the deed. 
The others spreading out in cirele wide, 
Prepared to cut the stays on every side. 
The leaders reachod the dcor;they rushed within, 
fPhey seized the siore; they rushid wnthout apain. 
The stays were cw;; down fell ths tottering tent 
A curdling yell o joy the forest rent. 
With this, they Tred into the deenest woods, 
Where they could share in peace thie stolen goods. 


ind then commenced a struggle in the tent, 
And eries were heard and shouts of discontent. 
Beneath the folds eight warriors tossed and tore 
Like drowning fish left high upon the shore. 
Guiton was first to reach the open air © 
Braathing forth threats and bidding all beware, 
The others followed through the breeth he made, 
To seize the fom and save their orangeade. 


Walt Reeves came next, his right robes flowing free, 
None felt the bitter night wind more than he, 
Phil Godfrey shouted words of stern comand, 
Though half asleep, to guide the Little band, 
All sovght the hidden foe, but sought in vain, 
And while they vainly sought,the heavens began to rain. 
The lightening flashed - a signal to retreat, 
And North Branch tribe were forced to own defeat. 
Weary and wet, they raised their fallen tent, 
Hungry and cold, back into bed they went. — 
Cuiton himself, though seething still with hate, 
Saw the vnequal contest was with fate, 
And yielded though his spirit longed to know 
Who ware the instruments that dealt the blow. 
He had not long to wait; for on his bed ae 
He found this note which he by metchlight read= 
"Enclosed please find the payment for your feed, 
Love of edventure caused our daring deed. 
Pleaso' do not class us with ungrateful thieves 
Signed -Thompson ,Barlow,Sifton,Webb and Steeves." 


SHTEE'S SOLD. 


For beauty I am not a star 
There are others more handsome by far 
But my face I don't mind i+,for IT am behind it, 


It's the people in front that I jar. 


T'd rather have fingers than toes, 

I'd rather have eyoas than a nose,, 

And os for my hair,i'm so gled it's all there 
I don't know what I'll do when it goes. 


SHUFFLIN' 


Shufflint, shufflin', shufflin' along, 

Don't know if I'm on the right road or wrong. 
But there's sure to be some Jubilee 

When the deer old folks at home see me 
Comeshufflin', shufflin’, shufflin' along. 


Feeling mighty lonesome 
All upon my own, 

Wish I hadn't started 
Walkin' there alone. 


Though I‘m happy outside, 
Kiddin' thet I'm glad 

Sure the part thats inside 
Is feeling mighty sad. 


Though I walk for ever and there's corns upon my feet 
If I walk for ever this old darky won't be beat 

All I know ic this, that when eat last I do get there 
I'm goin' to rest for ever in my Daddy's easy chair. 


Goin’ Back to Dixie, 
Tired of city life, 
Goin" back to Dixie, 
To grab mysclf a wife- 


By shufflin' - repeat first part. 


nee ewe eee eee ee eR He Ee r- 


Eating, eating, this eating's a pest, 

Sunny is sure good, he's one of the best; 
But there's just one thing that's not so good 
It's not the pie or the other food, but it's 
Cleaning, cleaning, its cleaning up the mess. 


Gotta wash the dishes-all the food is gone 

Chief toot toots the whistle-all the rest sit dom 
Everybody washes-head table does the worst 
Mount Royal in always sloppy-trying to be first. 


George inspects tho tables and you think they're pretty fine 
But in the rush for Candy Store,the cups get out ~f line. 
Forgot to sweep the floor and that must be an awful crime 
‘Cause instead of 24 vou ‘find he only gives you 9- 


After the annowncements-everything is plain, 
Nothing moro till supper time and do it all again. 


Be 


SHE TOLD ME SO. - 


My girl's a peacherine, she's only seventeen, 
She drives a limousine, I buy the gasoline. 


CHORUS. 


And in my future life, she's going to be my wife, 
How in the world did you find that out? 
She told me so! 


My girl's a Hullaballoo, sho eats at Walton's too 
Has onions in her stew, just like the others do. 


She drives a motor car, just like a movie staf, 
And when she travels far, Q travel too. 


She goes to all the games,I furnish all the change , 
For her and other dames,then I get to know their names. 


She wears a pair of spats,silk hose and Paris hats, 
She gocs to Conversats, I go there too. 


She goes to all the shows, paints and powders her little nose 
Wears all the latest clothes, she has a dozen beaux » 


She goes to Westmount High,goes out every night with 
another guy, 


She never tells me why, I can't go too. 


When I grow older, wiser and bolder, 
Then I will hold her head on my shoulder. 


TUNE - "Yos, We have No Bananas”. 

We had ice cream for dessert ' 

One day: it tasted great, 

But one dish was not enough 

For us, at any rate. 

To the kitchen with all speed 

We ran for some more. 

When we handed him the dish : 

Old Sunny sure got sore, and shouted~ 
CHORUS: 

Yes, no seconds on ics cream 

No seconds on ice cream today. 

We've sotonds on gravy, 

On cocoa and coffees, 

On porridge and milk and say- 

We havo some nice juicy salmon 

Buns to put jam on 

But yes, no seconds on ice cream, 

No seconds on ice Gream today. 


