THE 

TRAINED 
PERSON 

Will Get the Job 


IME and again you must have noticed, in games between 
tae apparently matched evenly in skill and courage, how 
one team gains the victory through some fortunate “break”’ in 
the game. It looks like luck—but is it? 


Of successful men you will often hear it said that their success 
is due to the fact that they, too, ‘got the breaks."’ Perhaps 
they did, but the important fact is that they were prepared to 


take advantage of “the breaks’ when they came. 


Who has ever heard of anyone getting a position as private 
secretary who was not capable of carrying on correct and 
effective correspondence as well as the routine work of steno- 
graphy; of a good technician or engineer who did not know 
the mathematics of his job; or of a good business executive 
who could not understand the books and balance sheets of 
his own firm, or discuss with knowledge and insight the social, 


political and economic affairs of the day? 


Success is Not an Accident. It grows out of Opportunity 
plus Preparation and Training! Nor, is practical experience 
alone sufficient. Thorough training eliminates wasteful years of 
learning on the job while others, better prepared, forge 


ahead more rapidly after less experience. 


Your Opportunity Will Come—But Will You Be Prepared For It? 4 


To many young men and women the period of industrial 
depression, through which the Dominion is now passing, has 


been provocative of serious thought. It has brought home to 


them, with an emphasis not to be denied, the fact that good 
education and thorough training are the best unemployment 
insurance, and that ability to do more than one job makes 


an employee doubly valuable when staffs are being reduced. 


For you, too, whether you are employed or unemployed, this 
should be a time of re-awakening and of preparation,— pre- 
paration for the opportunities which business revival must 


inevitably bring to the well-trained man and woman. 
| 


Turn over the page and you will find a list of the day and 
evening courses which are available at the Sir George Williams 
College. Decide upon the course or courses which seem best 
suited to your particular needs, likes and abilities. If you have 
had difficulty in deciding upon the type of work which you 
should follow, our Student Counsellor will be very pleased 
to discuss your problems with you, and to provide vocational 
and educational guidance which may prove of inestimable 


value to you, in establishing your course of action. 


“To be conscious of one’s ignorance is itself a great step toward knowledge.’'—Beaconsfield 


Prepare Yourself for the Job You Want 
and the Job Will Want You 


Never has there been a time when knowledge and ability of the right kind have not sold at a premium. BLUFF 
may serve as a substitute for a time, but eventually knowledge and efficiency will provide the only sure means of 
getting and keeping the job you want. Examine the list of day and evening courses given below. Decide which 
would be the most useful in preparing you for the job you want. Check the course, or courses, on the enclosed 
card; fill in the other information required; and drop the card in the mail box. No stamp is required. 


COURSES FOR THOSE WHO HAVE NOT COMPLETED ELEMENTARY SCHOOL 


In the Evening Grammar School are provided opportunities to receive training in the important school subjects. Grades V, 
VI, VIL, with special separate Adult Classes. 


COURSES FOR ELEMENTARY SCHOOL GRADUATES 


IN THE EVENING INSTITUTE OF BUSINESS AND TECHNOLOGY 
Business and Secretarial—Bookkeeping and Accountancy, Business Arithmetic, Business English and Correspondence, 
Business Science, French Conversation, English Conversation (for French-speaking people), Shorthand, Typewriting. 
Technical—Chemistry, Electricity, Mechanical Drawing, Practical Mathematics (and Slide Rule). 


IN THE EVENING HIGH SCHOOL—{Grades 8, 9, 10, 11, to High School Diploma or Junior Matriculation—English Com- 
position and Literature, French, History, Latin, Mathematics (Arithmetic, Algebra, Geometry, Trigonometry), Biology, 
Chemistry, Physics, General Science, Economics, Vocational Subjects such as Bookkeeping, Stenography, Mechanical Draw- 
ing, Art, Etc. 


IN THE DAY BUSINESS SCHOOL—Bookkeeping and Accountancy, Shorthand, Typewriting, Business English and Corres- 
pondence, Business Arithmetic, Office Practice, Business Procedure. 


COURSES FOR HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATES 
IN THE EVENING COLLEGE OF ARTS, SCIENCE AND COMMERCE—(to Senior Matriculation or Diploma of Associate 
in Arts, Science or Commerce). 
Arts—English Composition and Literature, French, European History, History of Civilization, Latin, Psychology. 


Science—General Biology, Genetics and Evolution, General Chemistry, Chemical Analysis (Qualitative and Quantitative), 
Mathematics, Physics, Nature of the World and of Man. 


Commerce—Accountancy, Advertising, Economics, Applied Psychology, Public Speaking, Business Letters and Reports. 
IN ADDITION, a large number of high school graduates are registered annually in courses in the Day Business School and the 
Evening Institute of Business and Technology, listed above. 


COURSES FOR COLLEGE GRADUATES 


In the Evening College of Arts, Science and Commerce, each year are enrolled a number of College graduates, taking work 
in some subject which they did not study as undergraduates, but which they later became interested in or found necessary. 


COURSES FOR THOSE INTERESTED IN COMMERCIAL OR FINE ART 


Day and Evening Courses in Drawing, Painting, Modelling and Sculpture, Illustrating, Advertising Art, Fashion Drawing, Poster 
Design, Pen and Ink Drawing, Etching and Woodcutting, are offered in the School of Fine and Applied Art. 


Sir George Williams College 


OF THE MONTREAL Y.M.C.A. 
1441 Drummond Street MArquette 8331 


The Best Possible Preparation 
Can be Obtained at the 
Sir George Williams College 


BECAUSE ... 


This institution has been planned and developed primarily 
for those who are employed by day and are therefore obliged 
to secure their education during the evening hours. 


There are 135 Courses From Which to Choose 
The Sir George Williams College, therefore, has the most com- 
prehensive curriculum and the greatest variety of evening 
courses of any school or College in Montreal. 


It Has a Large and Qualified Staff 

All teachers and instructors, more than 50 in number, are well 
trained and certificated teachers in their respective subjects. The 
quality of instruction is thus assured. 


The Largest Private School 

According to official government reports of enrollment in pri- 
vate schools, the Sir Pee Williams College has the largest 
number of different students in attendance annually of any 
English private school in Montreal. Its annual enrollment of 
1200 individual students, registered in some 4100 different 
courses, is unequalled. 


The Only School with a Qualified Student 


Counsellor 

The function of the Student Counsellor is to confer with students 
and parents regarding educational, vocational or other problems, 
and to give personal guidance in their solution. 


Complete and Modern Equipment 

Including 30 classrooms, 3 art studios, 3 laboratories for Physics, 
Chemistry and Biology, 2 lecture halls, library, and special com- 
mercial and draughting rooms. 


Inaugurated 1873 

It is therefore the oldest business training institution in Montreal. 
Phenomenal growth in the past few years has expanded the Sir 
George Williams College to include 


Six Complete Schools 

Providing academic or specialized vocational training from Grade 
V to college or university level. A course in the Sir George 
Williams College, therefore, has all guaranty and prestige of a 
large, long-established and recognized all-round educational 
institution. 


Employers Recognize Its Worth 

Each year large numbers of business executives pay the tuition 
fees of promising employees who they know will benefit b 
evening courses at the Sir George Williams College. And cM 
year the College is able to place many promising graduates in 
good positions. 


A Non-Profit-Making College 

The Sir George Williams College is not conducted for private 
rofit, its operating budget being balanced each year by the 
oung Men's Christian Association of Montreal through the 

financial support of an interested public, Students may therefore 

feel assured that their interests are always considered foremost 

in the administration of the College, and that 


Tuition Fees Are Moderate 

Even these reasonable tuition fees may be paid in installments 
if desired. 

Students’ Ages Range from 12 to 55 years 
Modern science has proved that adults can learn. Last year there 
were 482 students older than 20 years, 192 older than 25 years, 
and 70 older than 30 years. In most cases adults are not in the 
same classes with younger students. 


For Men and Women, Boys and Girls 
The Sir George Williams College is co-educational. 


