THE COLLEGE BULLETIN 


MONTREAL, CANADA 


SEPTEMBER 1, 1933 


JUNIOR COLLEGE HAS 


PARALLEL DIVISIONS 


Day and Evening Programmes Provide Two-Year 
Courses In Arts, Science and Commerce 


The complete paralleling of day and eve= 
ning programmes of study leading to the 
Diplomas of Associate in Arts, Science and 
Commerce, is the most recent step in the 
development of the Junior College unit of 
Sir George Williams College. By this new 
alignment, the Junior College is following 
a modern trend in higher education and is 
endeavouring to adapt itself to the educa- 
tional needs of a number of very important 
and quite distinct groups of young men and 
women who have been graduated from high 
school. 


The Junior College as 
an institution (of which 
there are now some 510 
representatives in Canada 
and the United States) 
has a very definite pur- 
pose and philosophy, a 
purpose which in many 
respects is quite different 
from that of the tradit- 
ional four-year college or 
university. The parallel 

Dr. J. S. Allen day and evening divisions 

Professor exemplify the ideal of the 
Junior College that all who have the necess- 
ary ability should receive a college educa- 
tion if they so desire, and that this higher 
education should be adapted to the indi- 
vidual needs of its students. 


Young men and women graduating from 
high sehool are faced with three general 
alternatives: first, that of securing a pos- 
ition immediately and becoming: self-sup- 
porting or contributing to the support of 
the family; second, that of taking a brief 
specialized business or technical training 
course, of perhaps only a few months dur- 
ation, and then going to work; and third, 
that of securing higher education of one, 
two, three, four or more years before enter- 
ing vocational life. 


In the Canadian Colleges 


Of the 5,300 students 
who follow the latter 
course and enter the fresh- 
men year of the Canadian 
universities every year, 
4,800 (or 90%) continue 
to the second year, but 
only 3,300 (or 62%) enter 
the third year, and 2,700 
or about 50% 5: the sn 
inal freshmen class reac 
the final year. It will C. W. Thompson 
thus be seen that the ma- M.A. 
jority of students who Instructor 


enter college continue to the second year; 
and that the majority of those who 
enter the third year continue to the fourth. 
But there is, according to the above statis- 
tics, a tremendous drop-out, a general 
exodus from college after the second year. 

The reason for this general withdrawal 
after two years of college education cannot 
be that the students lack the ability to con- 
tinue,—because in most universities it is 
tacitly understood that the student who has 


(Continued on page 4) 


WIN HONOURS IN 
BUSINESS SCHOOL 


Worthy of special commendation are the 
achievements of several of the students who 
obtained the Commercial Certificate of the 
Sir George Williams College in the Day 
Business School last year. 

Richard M. Still, in the Stenographic 
Course, passed the official examination for 
the certificate, having attained a speed of 
120 words per minute in Pitman’s Short- 
hand, while five others secured certificates 
for a speed of 100 words per minute. They 
were Harold Franklin, Maurice Marcus and 
James Worsley in the Stenographic Course, 
and Birney Tood and Victor Vigeant in the 
Secretarial Course. 

Birney. Todd’s work —in- the —Seeretarial 
Course, for which he was graduated with a 
mark of 92 per cent in Business Arithmetic, 
Bookkeeping and Accounting, and a steno- 
graphic speed of 100 words per minute, is 
particularly noteworthy. Only | slightly 
lower is Victor Vigeant’s graduation mark 
of 89 per cent in Business Arithmetic, Book- 
keeping and Accounting, with a steno- 
graphic speed of 100 words per minute. 

In the Business Course, Gordon Moffitt 
was graduated with an honours mark of 97 
per cent, Alfred Roach with 92 per cent, 
and Alfred Keeley, Alex, Magee and Ken- 
neth Millar with 89 per cent each. 

The Secretarial Course of the Day Busi- 
ness School provides an all-round training 
in a combination of all the subjects includ- 
ed in both the Business and the Steno- 


graphic Courses. Subjects studied are: 
Bookkeeping and Accounting, Business 
English and Correspondence, Business 


Arithmetic, Shorthand, Typewriting, and 
practical training in office routine and busi- 
ness procedure, 

Students securing complete Commercial 
Certificates in the Day Business School last 


(Continued on page 3) 


HIGH SCHOOL 
HEADMASTER 
IS APPOINTED 
Henry F. Hall, L.R.E., Assumes 


Administration of the 
“Evening High” 


AN IMPORTANT UNIT 


Henry F. Hall, L.R.E., who has for the 
past six years been Student Counsellor of 
the Sir George Williams College, has been 
appointed Headmaster of the Evening High 
School and will commence the supervision 
of this important unit with the term 1933- 
34. Mr. Hall will continue the direction of 
the guidance and counselling function of the 
College, although much of the technical 
work of this department will of necessity 


be delegated to other officers and in- 
structors. 

Mr. Hall re- 
ceived his early 
education in the 
Eastern Town- 


ships of Quebec, 
being a graduate 
of the Cowans- 
ville High School. 
After three and 
a half years as 
a member of the 
Canadian Expedi- 
tionary Force in 
the World War, 

Mr. Hall entered 
Henry F. Hall, L.R.E. hiss. work in 
Sherbrooke. In 1920 he became a student 
at McGill University and the Diocesan 
Theological College, from which latter insti- 
tution he was graduated in 1924 with the 
degree of L.R.E. His major aeademie in- 
terests at university were Biology and Edu- 
cation, while on the campus he participated 
actively and prominently in the affairs of 


the Psychological Society, the Student 
Christian Association, and the Harrier 
Team. 


After some time at Harvard University 
studying educational and vocational guid- 
ance and school personnel administration, 
Mr. Hall joined the staff of the Sir George 
Williams College as Student Counseller in 
1926. For the past two years he has acted 
as an examiner under the Department of 
Education at Quebec. 


SEPTEMBER EXAMINATIONS 


Sept. 5 to 11—Junior College en- 
trance examinations, Day Division. 


Sept. 18 to 22 — Supplemental exam- 
inations, Evening Division, all 
schools. 


Registrations for the above exam- 
inations must be made at the College 
Offices before the opening date sched- 
uled. 


THE BULLETIN 


THE BULLETIN 


Issued by the 


SIR GEORGE WILLIAMS COLLEGE 
of the 
MONTREAL Y.M.C.A. 


BOARD OF MANAGEMENT 


G. W. Macxkiunie, Esq. 
Chairman 


GerorceE Hoper, Ese. 

D. L. Macaunay, B.A., B.Se. 
J.M. Macxenzir, M.A., LL.B 
P. A. McFaRLANE, 
H. B. McLean, M 


D. A. Bates, M.A. 
J. W. Beaton, Esq. 
W. BE. Crarke, sa. 
F. B. Common, K.C. 
H. W. Fatrute, B.Sc. 
Joun B. Frosst, Ph.G. T. J. StevENsON ' 
L.C. Haske, B.A., F.C.LS. F. O. Srrepper, M.A., Ph.D. 
R. A. C. Henry, B.A., B.Sc. C. W. Taynor, B.Sc. 
E. E, Wauuace, Esq. 


EXECUTIVE STAFF 


Principal and Dean 
F. O. Strepper, M.A., Ph.D. 
Headmaster, The High School 
Henry F. Haun, L.R.E. 
Director, School of Art 
“JAMES MCCORKINDALE - 
Registrar and Bursar 
K. E. Norris, M.A. 
Asst. Registrar 
L. B. RicHarpson 


STAFF OF INSTRUCTION 


J. T. Allan, B.A. G.I. MacKenzie, B.Se. 
J. S. Allen, M.A., Jas. MeCorkindale 
Ph.D. J. K. McLetchie, M.A. 
Edward Baty, J. W. Morrison, C.A. 
A.M.E.I.C. Iva. F. Muir 
J. W. Brunt, M.A. POLE: Regenaee,, 


R. F. Callan, M.A. 

J. F. Cargin, B.Sc. K. H. Oxley, B.A. 

C. H. Cheasley, M.A. G. H. Penrose, B.A. 
R. E. Raguin, Lic.és L. 


J. F. Cilley, B.Sc. 
L. Crozier, B.A. M. A. Ross, M.A. 


E. W. V. Deathe, B.A. 
J. H. DuBois, B.A., 

B.D. 
Dorothy F. a : 


.T 
Leon Edel, M.A., 
D. és L. 
R. N. Elliott 


G. F. Savage, M.A. 

A. Saunders, B.A., 
F.R. Econ. 8. 

R. E. Scharf, B.A. 

B. G. Spracklin, B.A., 

B.Sc. 
F. V. Stone, M.A. 
E. Storr, B.A. 


C. W. Thompson, 
M. 8. Threlfall, 


Georgés Flanagan 

R. F. Flore 

I. F. Griffiths, B.A. 

W. V. Holt L. Unsworth, B.Se. 

R. L. Kutz, M.Sc., W.S. Watson, B.A. 
Ph. D. O.S. Wheeler, B.A. 

J. H. Lavery 


DAY DIVISION 
Junior College. 
Day Business School. 
School of Fine and Applied Art. 


EVENING DIVISION 


Junior College, 

Institute of Business and Technology. 
Evening High School. 

Evening Grammar School. 

School of Fine and Applied Art. 


KEEPING ABOVE THE 
PROSPERITY LEVEL 


With practically the same enrollment as 
in the financial “boom” year of 1929, some 
1,002 individual students, and with 52 in- 
structors on the Staff of its six day and 
evening schools, the Sir George Williams 
College last year maintained its full pro- 
gramme in all Schools. That the current 
financial depression has had an effect upon 
the College and upon its students is obvious, 


SEPTEMBER 1, 1933 


CAST OF “AS YOU LIKE IT,” A DRAMA GROUP PRODUCTION. 


but as the Principal’s annual report to the 
Board points out, “at no time during the 
intervening years has the College’s position 
dropped down to the “prosperity level.” 

In spite of depression the Sir George 
Williams College has continued to advance 
and to develop during the past four years 
and, in spite of depression, its students have 
continued to do likewise, realizing that 
when conditions are bad it is time to pre- 
pare to take part in the improvement which 
is sure to follow, sooner or later. 


During the past four years the College 
has added two new Schools to its organiz- 
ation, the Junior College and the School of 
Fine and Applied Art, both with day and 
evening divisions. The curricula of all six 
schools continued to undergo constant de- 
velopment and revision, in the light of 
newly discovered needs and modern educa- 
tional trends, 


Three years ago, in the very heyday of 
the depression, the building renovation 
placed at the disposal of the College a mod- 
ern educational equipment of 30 classrooms, 
three science laboratories, two lecture halls, 
three art studios, and special commercial 
and draughting rooms. The need for this 
extensive equipment has been fully illus- 
trated in its constant use, day and night. 
For instance, there are now some 600 stud- 
ents, day and evening, using the Physics, 
Chemistry, Biology and Electricity labor- 
atories almost to capacity. 


And now in this, the fifth year of the 
so-called depression, a number of major de- 
velopments have been effected in various 
schools of the Sir George Williams College, 
and staff, teachers and students are becom- 
ing more and more optimistic, increasingly 
certain that the worst has been weathered 
and that in reality “good times are com- 
ing.” 


COST ACCOUNTING 


As part of the second year of the Asso- 
ciate in Commerce programme, and for 
students who wish to study this subject 
alone, a course in Cost Accounting (Ac- 
countancy 103) has been added to the cur- 
riculum of the Junior College this year and 
will be taught by Donald R. Patton, C.A. 
Mr. Patton is a practicing accountant, and 
has had considerable experience in teaching 
his subject. The syllabus of this Cost Ac- 
counting Course may be obtained at the 
College office. 


2 


SHAKESPEARE PRESENTED 


Students Play “As You Like It” in 
Complete Form 


Although their third production, a bill of 
three one-act plays by Canadian authors, 
had to be cancelled due to the illness of the 
director, Mr. Douglass Burns Clarke, the 
Department of the Drama of the Sir George 
Williams College experienced a most suc- 
cessful season, and hope to be able to con- 
tinue their programme during 1933-34, 

Following two months study and re- 
hearsal, the Department presented during 
the Christmas Vacation, “The Rose and the 
Ring” from the Fireside Pantomime by Wil- 
liam Makepeace Thackery. The three per- 
formances of this whimsical production were 
well done, and the cast launched with 
vigour into the preparation of William 
Shakespeare’s “As You Like It,” which was 
presented in March. 

For the three performances of “As You 
Like It” the Association Hall was crowded 
to the doors, and the cast acquitted them- 
selves creditably before a critical but appre- 
ciative audience. Due to the fact that this 
Shakespearian comedy is included in the 
High School course in English literature, 
almost every high school on the Island of 
Montreal was represented in the audience, 


no less than 75 students being present from 
one large school. The ep tihit received 


very favourable reviews in the drama de- 
partments of the Montreal press. 

The entire scenery and stage settings for 
both productions were designed and made 
by the members of the Department. 

In addition to the rehearsals and the 
stage-craft groups, Mr. Clarke led a class 
throughout the year in the study of stage 
technique and the history of the drama. 


INDUSTRIAL 
ORGANIZATION 


The course in Industrial Organization 
which was inaugurated last year in the 
Evening Institute of Business and Tech- 
nology, has been transferred to the Evening 
Division of the Junior College this year and 
will be permitted as one elective in the 
Associate in Commerce programme. Stud- 
ents may also take this subject as a unit 
course. The instructor will again be Mr. G. 
I. MacKenzie, B.Sc., who is an engineer 
with the Northern Electric Co. The course 
is an imminently practical one, important 
to the student of Commerce. 


” 


THE BULLETIN 


FACULTY OF 
JUNIOR COLLEGE 
IS APPOINTED 


Instructional Staff of Twenty-one 
Members is Named for 1933-34 
by Dean 


R. L. KUTZ WINS PH.D. 


The appointment of twenty-one members 
to the faculty of the Junior College for the 
academic year 1933-34 is announced by Dr. 
F. O. Stredder, Dean. 

Professors in the Junior College will be 
Dr. J. Stanley Allen, M.A., Ph.D., Henry F. 
Hall, L.R.E,, and K. E. Norris, M.A.; Asso- 
ciate professor, Dr. Leon Edel, M.A., D. 
és L.; and instructors C. W. Thompson, 
M.A., R. N. Elliott, Rolf H. pia J. a 
Allan B.A., J. W. Brunt, M.A. 
. DuBois, -D., if v Holt, 
Dr. “R va Kutz, M.A. ‘PhD. J. K. Me- 
Letchie, M.A, P. L. H. "Muschamp, M.A,, A. 
Saunders, B.A., F. R. Econ.S., B. G. Sprack- 
lin, B.A., B.Sc., M. Ss. Threlfall, L. Unsworth, 
B.Sce., G. I. MacKenzie, B.Sc., and D. R. 
Patton, C.A. 

Several of these instructors have joined 
the faculty since the last issue of “THE 
BULLETIN.” 


Dr. J. S. Allen 


Dr. Allen was a member of the instruc- 
tional staff of the Junior College last year, 
and will continue as professor in Chemistry, 
Physics and Mathematics in the Day Di- 
vision. He holds his Master of Arts de- 
gree from the University of British Colum- 
bia, and his Doctor’s degree in Chemistry 
from McGill University. He is an experi- 
enced teacher and has done distinguished 
research in his chosen field of Chemistry, 
having a number of publications to his 
credit. While at McGill University Dr. 
Allen was president of the Operatic and 
Choral Society, and prominent in other 
student activities. 


Dr. Leon Edel 


Dr. Edel will continue as instructor of 
English and French in the Day Division. 
He obtained his B.A. and M.A. degrees from 
McGill University and spent nearly four 


EVENING HIGH 
GRADUATES ARE 
GIVEN DIPLOMAS 


General and College Preparatory 
Course Students Gain Rewards 
for Evening Study 


MANY SUCCESSFUL 


The graduating Classes of last May in 
the General and College Preparatory 
Courses of the Evening High School in- 
cluded an unusually large number of stud- 
ents who had been attending the Evening 
High for three, four or even more years. 
To a student who has attended school three 
evenings a week for three or four years, a 
high school graduation diploma seems like 
the pot of bi at the end of the rainbow. 
And is deserving of all the — 
ADS SND which he or she may re- 
ceive. 

Twenty students of the Evening High 
were graduated in May, and several more 
are expected to secure their Diplomas fol- 
lowing the September supplemental exam- 
inations. The successful students were: 

General Course:—Frances Rudolph; James 


G. McEwen; Anna _ Blutstein; Rosaline 
Slocombe; Florence Macdonald; Martha 
Campbell. 


College Preparatory Course:—J. B. At- 
kinson, Leslie W. Child, Patricia Fitzsim- 
mons, Arthur Friedman, Florence Halpern, 
Lillian Jacobson, Norman Oxley, Dixon 
M. B. Spear, Thomas Roy, Thomas Wal- 
dron, Andrew W. Whitelaw, Carleton G. 
Wilkinson. 

Those expected to complete their stand- 
ing for high school graduation in Septem- 
ber are:—General Course: Irene Kliger, 
Jack Axford, Thomas Marchant, Fred Avis, 
Andrew Lee, Frank Marchant; College Pre- 
paratoy Course: Hjalmar Backstrom, Mrs. 
P. E. Hiltz, Edgar Kulbach, Hugh Lamb, 
Harry S. Lambourne, Harvey Little, John 
Livingston, John P. Nickle, John E. Picker- 
ing, Robert G. Sharps, Maurice Taylor. 


A Six Year’s Quest 


Of these graduating students Miss Anna 
Blutstein is the veteran, having commenced 
her evening school career six years ago, 
1927-28, in the Lower Form (Grade V.) of 


was 
the first English-speaking Canadian to be 
awarded the degree of Docteur es Lettres 
at the University of Paris. He has done 
distinguished work in English literary re- 
search, and has published two books on 
Henry James which have been very favour- 
ably reviewed on both sides of the Atlantic. 
While at McGill University Dr. Edel was 
an editor of the McGill Daily and active in 
undergraduate literary circles. 


Mr. C. W. Thompson 


Mr. Thompson will be instructor in His- 
tory in the Day Division. Mr, Thompson 
is a graduate of Worcester College, Oxford 
University, and has been a lecturer at Cam- 
bridge University and latterly, for three 
years, a house master at Ashbury College, 
Ottawa. At the latter institution he was 
president of the Literary, Debating and 
Dramatic society and producer for the Ash- 
bury Shakespearean players. 


Mr. H. F. Flore 


Mr. Flore will continue as instructor in 
German in the Day Division. Mr. Flore is 
German by birth, having been educated at 


the Evening Grammar School. She has now 
graduated from High School and hopes to 
enter the Evening: Division of the Junior 
College this year, in the Associate in Arts 
Course. 


Five Years Evening Study 


Five years ago, in 1928-29, Jack Axford 
and Frank Marchant entered the Upper 
Form (Grade VII.) of the Evening Gram- 
mar School, and Fred Avis and Robert 


Kiel and Miinster Universities, where he 
specialized in economics and journalism. 


Dr. R. L. Kutz 


At the May, 1933, convocation of McGill 
University, Mr. R. L. Kutz received the de- 
gree of Doctor of Philosophy, after several 
years of graduate study in the field of Bio- 
chemistry. Mr. Kutz, who is a demonstra- 
tor in Biochemistry at McGill University, 
has been instructor in Biology in the Junior 
College and the Evening High School for 
the past several years. He received his 
B.Sc. and M.Se. degrees at the University 
of Alberta. 


3 


SEPTEMBER 1, 1933 


EXHIBIT DRAUGHTIN G 


Six Members of Mechanical Drawing 
Class Enter Contest 


Six members of the advanced Mechanical 
Drawing Classes have entered specimens of 
their year’s work in the Canadian National 
Exhibition at Toronto, where they will com- 
pete with drawings from a number of other 
technical schools throughout Canada. Those 
exhibiting are Ben Leathwood, Alex Greer, 
Alfred J. Verrinder, Stephen Pritchett, Carl 
Strike and Charles "Steele. Ben Leathwood 
is also entering a special coloured and 
shaded drawing. 

According to the conditions of the con- 
test, drawings submitted must not be copy 
drawings, but must have been built up from 
the actual details of machinery requiring 
designing. The Mechanical Drawing classes 
have been taught for the past three years 
by Mr. E. Baty, who-is-a-district engineer 
with the Bell Telephone Company. 


Sharps commenced their work in the Eve- 
ning High. Last year they completed 
fourth year High School and should be 
graduated in September. 


Four Years Ago 


In 1929-30, four years ago, Lillian Jacob- 
son, Irene Kliger, Martha Campbell and 
Mrs. P. E. Hiltz enrolled in the first year of 
Evening High, and have been in attendance 
since. The same year Harvey Little entered 
second year High. All five have now been 
graduated, or will be graduated this month. 


Three Years Attendance 


Eight of the graduating students have 
been attending Evening High for three 
years, since 1930-31. They are: James G. 
McEwen, Leslie W. Child, Patricia Fitz- 
simmons, Thomas Waldron, Thomas Mar- 
chant, Andrew Lee, Hjalmar Backstrom and 
Edgar Kulbach. 


WIN HONOURS IN 

BUSINESS SCHOOL 

(Continued from page 1) 

year were:—Secretarial Course: Herbert 
Brown, James Struthers, Birney Todd, Her- 
bert Vickerson, Victor Vigeant, Stanley 
Whiston; Business Course:—Lloyd Bishop, 
Alfred Keeley, Alex. Magee, Kenneth Mill- 
ar, Gordon Moffitt, Alfred Roach; Steno- 
graphic Course: Harold Franklin, Walter 
Kelsey, Maurice Marcus, Richard Still, 
James Worsley. Several others will com- 
plete their courses shortly after the School 
re-opens in September. 

A large number of students completed 
practically the whole course of study in the 
Day Business School but left school with- 
out. having fulfilled the requirements for 
graduation with a Commercial Certificate. 


Among the number were:— Secretarial 
Course: Fred. Gannon, Norman Latter; 
Business Course: Fred Blatch, Stanley 


Crowther, Hector Eby, W. Gordon Empey, 
James Fairlie, Paul Favier, James Haney, 
Lloyd S. Hyman, Donald Magill, Gordon 
Molyneux, Rufus Pope, George Ramsay, 
Norman Robertson, Robert Schafhausen, 
George Stevens, Irving Tipping; Steno- 
graphic Course: Rex Ball, Edward Corris- 
tine, James P. Cowans, Robert Dixon, 
George Kuebler, Gordon MacIntyre, Harry 
Middleton, George Saul and James Tester. 

Many of these students, in spite of the 
depression, were able to secure a position 
on leaving School, and are now employed. 


THE BULLETIN 


JUNIOR COLLEGE HAS 
PARALLEL DIVISIONS 


(Continued from page 1) 


the ability to pass the first year success- 
fully has the ability to graduate. If lack 
of ability were the only cause of withdrawal 
from college, we might expect to find a 
more uniform withdrawal rate throughout 
the four years. But we find that while 500 
students drop out after the first year, and 
600 after the third year, 1,500 withdraw 
after the second year. 


A Two-year Course 


It is to meet the needs 
of the obviously large 
number of young men and 
women who desire a col- 
lege education but who 
cannot, or do not wish to, 
spend four years in the 
process, that the junior 
college has -been-organized- 
throughout Canada and 
the United States. Until 
the advent of the junior 
college students desiring 
two years of higher edu- 
cation were obliged to attend the first two 
years of a traditional four-year college, two 
years during which the work is largely 
preparatory to the work of the higher 
years, and then to drop out of college with- 
out having completed a course which has 
been but nicely begun. The Junior College 
is organized from the first on a two-year 
basis, and instruction is planned to facili- 
tate the integration and rounding out of 
the student’s education throughout the two- 
year period. i 


Pre-Professional Courses 


Dr. R. L. Kutz 
Instructor 


Not all students who enter the Junior 
College will decide to seek employment 
after graduation as an Associate. Many to 
whom a four-year university or professional 
course had at first seemed impossible or 
undesirable, will reconsider this decision 
during their Junior College career, and if 
successful will continue their education 
after graduation. Indeed the promotion and 
aiding of this process of self-discovery is 
one of the most important functions of the 
Junior College, which thus provides a valu- 
able exploratory period for those students 
who may go on to enter the learned pro- 
fessions. The Pre-Professional Course of 
the Junior College enable the students to 
write university senior matriculation exam- 
inations at the end of the first year. 


The Evening Division 


Similar aims and methods govern the 
Evening Division of the Junior College. The 
Evening Division was inaugurated three 
years ago for the purpose of providing 
higher educational facilities for young men 
and women who are employed by day in 
earning a living,—high school graduates in 
the first and second categories mentioned 
earlier in this article: first, those who 
have gone directly to work after finishing 
high school, and second, those who have 
taken a job after a brief commercial or 
technical training. It is obvious that, how- 
ever inadequate these young men and 
women may find their present educational 
standing, very few of them can afford to 
give up their present employment and at- 
tend university or the Day Division of the 
Junior College. It is obvious, also, that 
there must be certain differences in meth- 
ods of instruction, range of subject matter, 
etc., for those evening students, due to their 
wider experience, greater personal respon- 
sibility and mental maturity. 


Standards, however, in Day and Evening 
Divisions, are equivalent. The only differ- 
ence is that the Evening Division student 
requires three years to attain the Associate 
Diploma and to graduate from the Junior 
College, while the Day Division student, 
with more time available for study and 
class work, accomplishes this in two years. 


Partial Evening Students 


Another difference is that whereas in the 
Day Division all students follow the com- 
plete curricular programme, in the Evening 
Division a considerable number of men and 
women enroll for only one or two College- 
grade subjects of special interest each year. 
Such special students follow such courses as 
Economics, English Literature, History, 
Science, Psychology, Public Speaking, Ad- 
vertising, Accountancy, German, French, 
ete, 

The Associate Courses 


In accordance with the ideal of the Junior 
College to -provide an educational. pro-.. 
gramme organized around the actual needs, 
interests and experiences of the individual 
student, a wide range of optional subjects 
is offered in both Day and Evening Di- 
visions. 

The student, for example, who desires to 
secure a higher general education and 
whose interests be in the field of the liberal 
arts and humanities, enters the Associate in 
Arts course and choose such subjects as 
English, History, French, German, Biology, 
Psychology, Latin, Economics, Philosophy 
or Science. 

The Associate in Commerce course pro- 
vides a general liberal education along with 
the basic points of view, skills and tech- 
nique of commerce. The programme of 
studies (Day Division two years, Evening 
Division three years) includes such subjects 
as Accountancy, Economics, English, Mathe- 
matics, Commercial Law, French, German, 
Statistical Methods, Public Speaking, Psy- 
chology, History or Science. 


Similarly the Associate 
in Science programme 
gives extensive and inten- 
sive work in the scieace 
subjects of Chemistry, 
Physics, Biology, Elec- 
tricity, Mathematics, 
along with such subjects 
as French, German, Eng- 
lish, Psychology, Econ- 
omics, ete. Draughting 
may be taken as a valu- 
able extra subject with 
this course. 


Associate 
Professor 


Guidance of Students 


As has been mentioned already, the guid- 
ance and counselling of students is perhaps 
the most important function of the real 
junior college. This fundamental purpose 
becomes effective in many ways. It pro- 
vides opportunity for vocational and educa- 
tional exploration, and for the discovery of 
interests and abilities on the part of the 
students. The choice of an occupation or 
profession cannot be made intelligently un- 
less such a process is undergone, either in 
Junior College or elsewhere. 


(Many students of good or even superior 
ability have never achieved the educational 
results of which they are capable. Poor 
work habits, lack of interest, emotional or 
temperamental difficulties, make re-train- 
ing necessary. This the Junior College 
undertakes as a first responsibility, whether 
the student be an adolescent in the Day 
Division, or an ambitious young man or 
woman in the Evening Division, whose 


4 


SEPTEMBER 1, 1933 


GIFT TO ART SCHOOL 


Two Large Louvre Casts Presented 
By Art Association of Montreal 


Students of the School of Fine and Applied 
Art will be gratified to learn of two im- 
portant. additions to the equipment of the 
school, through the gift, by the Art Associ- 
ation of Montreal, of two large pieces of 
statuary, the first a ten-foot Renaissance 
candelabrum and the second a cast of the 
famous Laocoon group in heroic size. 

Both pieces were cast in the Louvre, 
Paris, and have been in the Art Gallery in 
Montreal for several years. Mr. Orson S. 
Wheeler, B.A., instructor of Modelling and 
Sculpture in the Sir George Williams Col- 
lege, is at present restoring and cleaning 
the statues in preparation for the opening 
of the School of Art this month. 

Students in all Schools would be inter- 
ested to view these casts. The huge can- 
delabrum,” , i 
mental as are all specimens of Renaissance 
sculpture. Practically every square inch of 
the cast is taken up by some decorative de- 
vice, ram’s heads, cherubim, twining leaves, 
wreaths of flowers, gargoyles, etc. The 
Laocoon group, in Studio A, represents the 
Homeric legend of the battle between the 
powerful Laocoon and the sea serpents in 
defense of his two sons who had fallen into 
their toils. This remarkably expressive 
group is a representative of the later Greek 
sculpture. 


COMMERCIAL 
CERTIFICATES 


Evening Students Complete Two- 


Year Course of Study 


Seven students of the Evening Institute 
of Business and Technology receive their 
Commercial Certificates as a result of the 
May examinations. following two years of 
work at the Sir George Williams College. 
A number of others have completed the 
first year of the course and will receive 
their Certificates in another year. 

The Commercial Certificate Course pro- 
vides for two years of work in Business 
Arithmetic, Business English, Public Speak- 


ing, Business. Science, and Bookkeeping. or. 


Shorthand and Typewriting. Advanced 
work in all subjects is taken in the second 
year. All these subjects may, of course, 
be taken alone as unit courses, instead of 
as part of the full Commercial Certificate 
Course. 

The successful students last year were:— 

Second Year, Commercial Certificate 
awarded—Frank Boving'ton, Joan Champion, 
John E. Buckle, Janet Christie. On pass- 
ing supplemental examinations: Percy 
Marsden and R. E. Gallant. 

First Year—Fritz Franke, Alice Hardy. 
On passing supplemental examinations: 
Helen Cunningham. 

Second Year, Commercial Certificate de- 
layed from academic year 1931-32—Jar] T. 
Norell. 


worldly experience has created personal 
problems which require solution. 


Understanding, sympathy, close super- 
vision and guidance are provided much 
more effectively in the Junior College, with 
its smaller classes, its intimate contacts be- 
tween the Dean and instructional staff and 
students, and its different underlying edu- 
cational philosophy. 


THE BULLETIN 


FIVE HUNDRED 
JUNIOR COLLEGES 
ON CONTINENT 


Now Thirteen Junior Colleges in Can- 
ada — Have Arisen in Response 
to Educational Need 


The announcement was published a few 
weeks ago that Prince of Wales College, 
a renowned educational institution located 
in Charlottetown, P.E.I., had added a sec- 
ond year to its university-grade programme 
of studies, and would henceforth be a “full- 
fledged Junior College.” This followed very 
closely the announcement, in May, 1933, of 
the new Junior College course at Regina 
College, Saskatchewan, which leads in two 
years beyond high school graduation to the 
A. A. (Associate in Arts) Diploma. 

These two recent junior college develop- 

_ments_in-Canada,-c¢ i 

the Junior College of the Sir George Wil- 
liams College is now entering upon its third 
year (having been organized as a distinct 
unit in 1931), led the writer to investigate 
the extent to which the junior college has 
been adopted in the Dominion. He dis- 
covered that there were thirteen junior col- 
leges in Canada in 1931, according to the 
“Annual Survey of Education” published by 
the Dominion Bureau of Statistics. There- 
fore, of the 53 institutions of higher educa- 
tion listed in the Survey, 24.6 per cent are 
junior colleges, offering two-year  pro- 
grammes of study beyond high school grad- 
uation. 

Besides Regina College mentioned above, 
there are five other junior colleges in the 
province of Saskatchewan, Outlook, St. 
Peter’s, Luther (Regina), Canadian Junior 
College and Concordia. The Mount Royal 
College in Calgary, Alberta, and Victoria 
College in Victoria, B.C., are both junior 
Colleges, the latter being provincially con- 
trolled for the residents of Vancouver Isl- 
and. Mount Carmel, St. Jeromes and Alma, 
in Ontario, and Prince of Wales College in 
Prince Edward Island, complete the list. 

When one turns to the United States of 
America one is impressed still more by the 
important place which the junior college 
has come to occupy in higher education. 
There are, according to a recent article in 
the “New York Times,” 497 junior colleges 
in the United States in 1933 with an enroll- 


SEPTEMBER 1, 1933 


ABNER KINGMAN SCHOLARSHIPS 
AWARDED TO FIVE STUDENTS 


Under the terms of a gift made five years ago by the late Abner Kingman, 
Esq., five scholarships of fifty dollars value each, in tuition, are to be awarded each year 
to “promising students” in the Evening Division of the Junior College, the Evening High 


School and the Evening Grammar School. 
and school achievement alone, but for all 


The awards are made not for scholarship 
that complex combination of personality and 


character traits which would lead teachers and staff to designate the individual as a 


“promising student.” The winners for the 


Grammar School to High School I... 
High School I. to High School II..... 
High School II. to High School III.... 
High School III. to High School IV... 
High School IV. to Junior College I... 


Honourable Mention — High School I. 


academic year 1933-34 are as follows: 
D siclansiatcrstacs sie-e.8. reise ae Ronald Hendley 
ere eet oei ts ea tenates< Paste. Jack Christie 
Be susie tae tine ee a eae W. A. Cooke 
ieee Stomeiai tie acattrecersrars John McKelvey 
A Eee era Lillian Jacobson 


, Mary Louise Lavallee; High School II., Alex- 


ander Ure and Hector Sturgess; High School IV., Frances Rudolph and Norman Oxley. 


It is interesting to note that of the 1933-34 winners, 
award for the third time, W. A. Cooke for 


_third- time. 


Miss Jacobson completed 
in June her high school 
course which was taken wholly in the 
Evening High School. 
Throughout her course 
Miss Jacobson has been an 
outstanding student, her 
work having been charac- 
terized by a thoroughness 
and diligence which are 
highly commendable. Miss 
Jacobson expects to enter 
the Evening Division of 
the Junior College this fall 
in further preparation for 
her chosen profession of 
nursing. 


Lillian Jacobson: 


John McKelvey: Abner Kingman Scholar- 
ships have become a 
habit with John McKelvey, this year’s suc- 
cess being his third. The school year 1933- 
34 during which he will be 
in College Preparatory 
IV., will be his fifth year 
of evening school work, 
and should see his final 
attainment of high school 
graduation and university 
matriculation. He left 
day school in February, 
1930, and immediately 
upon securing his first job_ 


“ment of some 106,016 students. Thus there 
are in Canada and the United States this 
year about 510 junior colleges with more 
than 107,000 students, 

The past decade has seen, in spite of the 
depression, an amazing growth in the num- 
ber of junior colleges on the North Amer- 
ican Continent. In the last few years, while 
the four-year colleges and universities have 
been losing, the enrollment of the junior col- 
leges in the country as a whole has gone 
steadily ahead. In the last six years the 
number of students has more than doubled, 
and the number of such colleges is now 
nearly 23 per cent greater than in 1929. 
Here are the figures, as reported by Pro- 
fessor W. C. Eells, editor of the Junior Col- 
lege Journal: 


Year Number’ Enrollment 
1928 408 50,529 
1929 405 54,438 
1930 429 67,627 
19381 436 74,088 
1932 473 99,476 
1933 497 106,016 


Of the colleges which report enrollments 
for the last year, 333 had less than 200 
students, 99 had between 200 and 500, and 


he enrolled in the Upper 

Form of the Evening Grammar School. On 
thus completing his Grade VII. work he 
entered the Evening High School, from 
which he will graduate next spring. He is 
17 years of age. 


38 had more than 500, with the largest 
showing an enrollment of more than 4,000. 

Many reasons have been advanced for the 
phenomenal growth of the Junior College on 
this continent. Some of these are: The 
raising of educational demands and stan- 
dards in the past decade; the need for 
higher education more adequately adapted 
to later adolescence; the success of the 
junior college in meeting the needs of the 
large group of students who drop out of 
the four-year college after one or two 
years; the requirement of two years of col- 
lege now often prescribed for professional 
study; the assistance the junior college 
gives to overcrowded universities, and the 
development of vocational courses for 
“semi-professionals,” such as junior en- 
gineers, doctors’ and dentists’ assistants, 
laboratory assistants. elementary school 
teachers, etc. 


5 


John McKelvey receives the 
the second time, and Lillian Jacobson for the 


W. A. Cooke: This is this student’s sec- 
ond Abner Kingman 
Scholarship and the beginning of his third 
year in the Evening High 
School. Following gradu- 
ation from Berthelet Pub- 
lic School in 1922, he 
spent nine years in busi- 
ness before he decided 
that he required more 
education to do the things 
he wanted to do. So, in 
September, 1931, he com- 
menced his Evening High 
School career. He is now 
25 years of age, and employed with the 
Henry Morgan Company. 


The winner of the first 
year High School Scholar- 
ship hails from Ontario, from the railroad- 
ing town of Smiths Falls. 
He completed his public 
school education there, 
and then entered the em- 
ploy of the Canadian Pa- 
cific Railway, by whom 
he was last year trans- 
ferred to the Montreal 
round-house where he is 
now working. At the age 
of 23, Mr. Christie decided 
to resume his interrupted - 
education, and has done so with signal 
success. 


Jack Christie: 


Renald Hendley: When not at work, or 
in school, the winner of 
Grammar Scholarship may 
usually be found in the 
Library. Ronald Hendley 
left Victoria School sev- 
eral years ago without 
having completed Grade 
VII. Last year he enrolled 
in the Upper Form of the 
Evening Grammar School, 
completed his Grade VII. 
work, and now advances 
to the Evening High with 
a scholarship. He is 17 
years of age, and employed with the Can- 
adian Marconi Company. , 


the Evening 


GRADUATED IN LAW 


Mr. Max Ford, B.A., former teacher in 
the Evening Grammar School, received his 
Bachelor of Civil Law degree at the spring 
convocation of McGill University. 


THE BULLETIN 


GAIN ENTRANCE 
TO HIGH SCHOOL 


Thirty-one Evening Students Com- 
plete Grade VII. Work.—Sixteen 
Adults Finish Elementary 
School 


Of the 31 students of the Evening Gram- 
mar School who completed their Grade VII. 
work last year and gained entrance to the 
Evening High School, 16 were members of 
the adult class, eighteen years of age or 
older. Most of these students had been out of 
school and employed for several years (a 
few even ten or fifteen years) before they 
decided to enter the Evening Grammar 
School and complete their elementary edu- 
cation. Now high school work or commer- 
cial and technical training are open to them. 

The students securing Grammar School 
Graduation Certificates in May were: 

Upper Form:—Honours: Ronald Hendley; 
Superior; Aubrey Harrison, Wm. Green- 
wood, Leslie Mullins, Jack Paton; Pass; 
Roland Patten, Wm. McCaskill, W. R. Pal- 
mer, Edward Lloyd, Walter Reed, Louis 
Rosen, Percy Carmen, Hyman Mendelson, 
Gertrude Prince, Mildred Riding. 

Adult Class:—Honours: Eileen Mitchell, 
Agatha Graits; Superior; Samuel Guerin, 
Gordon Harrison, Kaj Dichow; Pass; Mar- 
garet York, George Carswell, Charles 
Hoppe, Gladys Letroy, Jeannine Bailey, 
Wm. Hodgson, George Leshchynski, Julian 
S. Senecal, Victor Angelillo, Freda Hamsen, 
Michael Lanese. 


COURSES FOR TEACHERS 


S.G.W.C. Graduates Become Teachers 
—16 Teachers Become S.G.W.C. 
Students 


Miss Frances Rudolph, who was gradu- 
ated from the General Course of the Eve- 
ning High School in June, expects to enter 
the School for Teachers at Macdonald Col- 
lege in 1934 after spending a year in the 
Evening Division of the Junior College in 
order to prepare herself better for her 
teacher’s training. She will take the first 
year of the Associate in Arts programme. 

So far as THE BULLETIN is aware, at 
least nine of the graduates of the Sir 
George Williams College within the past 
four years have obtained teachers’ diplomas 
and are now teachingtin the schools of Mont- 
real or vicinity. They are Miss Ruby Prew, 
Sir George Williams College 1930, who 
secured her Intermediate Diploma at Mac- 
donald in 1931; Miss Ella Rosengarten, Sir 
George Williams College 1931, Miss Bea- 
trice Kottler, Sir George Williams College 
Junior College 1931, Miss Bessie Holmes, 
Sir George Williams College 1931, and Miss 
Leah Lutterman, Sir George Williams Col- 
lege 1931, who secured their Intermediate 
Diplomas in 1932; Miss Edna Mossey, Sir 
George Williams College 1931, Primary 
Certificate in 1932; Mr. Charles G. Brodie 
Brockwell, Sir George Williams College 
Junior College 1932, Macdonald College 
1933; Mr. Robert A. Hamilton, B.A., Sir 
George Williams College Junior College 
1930, who secured his first class high school 
teacher’s diploma in May; and Mr. Orlo 
Brewer. 


Teachers Become Students 


Not only do young men and women pre- 
pare in the Sir George Williams College to 
enter the teaching profession, but those al- 


EVENING DIVISION 
DIPLOMA STUDENTS 
IN FINAL YEAR 


First Junior College Class Will Re- 
ceive Associate Diploma 
This Year 


THREE-YEAR PROGRAMME 


The close of the current academic year, 
in May, 1934, will see the first graduating 
class in the Evening Division of the Junior 
College. The Diploma of Associate in Arts, 
Science or Commerce requires three years 
of work in the Evening Division, and two 
years in the Day Division. Five students 
completed the second year of the Evening 
Division, programme last May, Robert 
Adelstem, Clinton H. Davis, Beatrice Kot- 
tler, Charles Lasdin and Eric Rigby. 

In distributing the work of the Associate 
programme over three years in the Eve- 
ning Division the Junior College has ar- 
ranged that the full equivalent of two years 
of day college work may be accomplished 
without undue strain and overwork on the 
part of students who are employed by day 
in earning their living. Consequently the 
lectures, laboratory and class work of each 
year are scheduled so that each student 
may attend Junior College on only two eve- 
nings, (or at the most, part of three eve- 
nings) each week throughout the academic 
year of eight months. 

The successful students in the Associate 
programmes last year were: 

Second Year—Robert Adelstein (Science), 
Clinton H. Davis (Science), Beatrice Kot- 
tler (Arts), Charles Lasdin (Commerce), 
Eric Rigby (Science). 

First Year—Arthur W. Dancey (Com- 
merce), John J. Fairhurst (Arts), Herbert 
F. Quinn (Arts), Clifford Weegar (Arts). 


Evening Pre-Professional Course 


In the Pre-Professional Course of the 
Evening Division, John Hamilton Rennie 
completed first year of the Science Course 
and obtained the Senior Matriculation Cer- 
tificate of McGill University after having 
distributed the work over two academic 
years. Edith Jacobson will complete her 
standing after writing the German exam- 
inations in September. 

A number of other students in the Eve- 
ning Division who are distributing the work 
of the Senior Matriculation over two years, 
and who were successful in their exam- 
inations in June, are:—Edith M. A’Bear, 
Norman Bradley, Irene W. Dombroski, 
Stanley Farquharson, Alex. Ferguson, 
Frank A. Grant, Walter Kelsey, Richard 
M. Smith. It is imteresting to note that 
three of the above students are teachers in 
the elementary schools of Montreal. 


ready teaching find in its Evening Division 
an opportunity to take further training. 
There were 16 teachers of Montreal and 
vicinity enrolled as students in the Evening 
High School, the Junior College and the 
Evening Institute last year. Primary teach- 
ers find in the Evening High the oppor- 
tunity of completing high school graduation 
and qualifying for a higher professional 
certificate. Intermediate teachers are able, 
in the Junior College, to proceed with their 
College courses which likewise will lead to 
a higher professional certificate. And high 
school teachers take, in the Junior College, 
refresher courses or study subjects in which 
they are interested but which had not been 
included in their courses while at college. 


6 


SEPTEMBER 1, 1933 


SCHOOL OF ART 
OPENS SEPT. 11 


Instruction Will Be in Charge of Mr. 
Jas. McCorkindale 


The opening of the School of Fine and 
Applied Art for the academic year 1933-34 
is set for September 11th in the Day Di- 
vision and October 3rd in the Evening Di- 
vision. Mr. James McCorkindale will be in 
charge of instruction in the fine art and 
commercial art studios, while Mr. Orson S. 
Wheeler, B.A., will again be instructor in 
modelling and sculpture. 

With 87 students enrolled last year in its 
various day and evening classes, the School 
of Art continued the development predicted 
for it on its mauguration three years ago. 

Various improvements in curriculum and 
instruction method instituted last year will 
be continued. These include special life 
classes for advanced students, group de- 
monstrations by specialist artists, studio 
assistants for the larger classes to insure 
individual instruction for all students, etc. 


TECHNICAL CERTIFICATES 


Awarded to Students of Evening 


Institute 


Although the majority of students taking 
technical work in the Evening Institute of 
Business and Technology follow simgle or 
unit Courses each year, a steadily increas- 
ing number are realizing, in the two-year 
Technical Certificate Course, a more ade- 
quate means of securing a good general 
training for entering Technical employment 
or for advancing in a technical occupation 
already chosen. 

The two-year general technical course in- 
cludes training in Mechanical Drawing, 
Practical Mathematics, Electricity, Physics 
and Chemistry, with advanced work in all 
subjects provided in the second year. These 
subjects may, of course, be studied alone 
as unit subjects, but a great saving of time 
and tuition fees is effected when they are 
combined in the Technical Certificate 
Course. 

The students completing the work of this 
course last year were: 

Second Year, Technical Certificate to be 
awarded on completing examinations:— 
Arnold Johnston, Ivor W. J. Winter, Bruce 
Benholm. 

First Year:—Stephen Pritchett, 
Verrinder, Robert Pollock. 


STUDENTS MAKE GOOD 


Alfred 


At the May examinations in 1932, three 
students in the Middle Form of the Eve- 
ning Grammar School were given extra pro- 
motions, to the first year of the Evening 
High School without the necessity of going 
through the Upper Form. At the May 
examinations in 1933 two of these students 
successfully secured promotion into second 
year High School,—one of them, Lawrence 
F. Almond, with a Superior grade of 80.2 
per cent, and the other, John McPherson, 
with 65 per cent. The third student, Frank 
Brownrigg, was not in school last year. 

Such extra promotions are given each 
year to promising students in the Evening 
Grammar School who are willing to do ex- 
tra work throughout the year in order to 
progress as soon as_ possible into the 
broader and more interesting vistas of high 
school study. 


THE BULLETIN 


SEPTEMBER 1, 1933 


THE ROLL CALL OF A FEW S.G.W.C. GRADUATES 


It is pleasant to report that a number of 
graduates of the Evening High School and 
the Junior College achieved distinction at 
various institutions of higher learning last 
year. Ten former students of the Sir 
George Williams College were graduated 
from university at the May convocations, 
eight of these from McGill. A number of 
former students won honours as_under- 
graduates. 

The list below is admittedly incomplete. 
THE BULLETIN would welcome news re- 
garding any graduates omitted from this 
page, particularly those now attending out- 
of town universities. 


Graduated from McGill 


Philip K. Nutt, S.G.W.C. ’29, secured the 
Bachelor of Commerce degree. 

Henry B. Yuen, S.G.W.C. ’28, with the 
Bachelor of Science degree. 

James Hastings, S.G.W.C. ’29, with the 
Bachelor of Arts degree. 


C. Ernest Carter, S.G. 
W.C. ’29, secured his Bach- 
elor of Arts degree, with 
honours m English and 
German. Mr, Carter has 
acted as attendant in the 
Sir George Williams College 
Bookstore for the past four 
years. He expects to return 
to McGill for his M.A. de- 
C. E. I. Carter, vee this year. 

B.A. 

Naomi A. Jackson, S.G.W.C., Junior Col- 
lege ’30, obtained her Bachelor of Arts de- 
gree with Honours in French and German, 
and was awarded the Gov- 
ernor-General’s Gold Medal 
for Foreign Languages Lit- 
erature. On graduation 
from the Pre-Professional 
course of the Sir George 
Williams College, Miss 
Jackson ranked first on the 
entire senior matriculation 
pass list of McGill Univers- 
ity and has held a scholar- 
Naomi Jackson,Ship in modern languages 

B.A. throughout her three years 
at the University. 

Alastair M. Watts, B.A., S.G.W.C. ’26 was 
awarded the degree of Bachelor of Civil 
Law, with first class honours, the Legal Re- 
search Prize, and the Edwin Batsford Bus- 
teed Scholarship. On graduation from the 
Sir George Williams College, Mr. Watt en- 
tered the Faculty of Arts of McGill Uni- 
versity with a matriculation scholarship, 
and has continued to win academic distinc- 
tion throughout the seven years of his 
university career. Among his honours have 
been the Jane Redpath Scholarship for the 
highest average in first year Arts, the 
Lieutenant-Governor’s Silver Medal in His- 
tory in Fourth Year Arts, and the Lieu- 
tenant-Governor’s Silver Medal in First 
Year Law. 

H. A. Lindsay Place, S.G.W.C. ’29, ob- 
tained his Bachelor of Arts degree. 

Robert A. Hamilton, S.G.W.C., Junior 
College ’30, secured his Bachelor of Arts 
degree, the Hung Tao Society Bursary and 
a first class high school teacher’s diploma. 
It is understood that Mr. Hamilton will be 
teaching one of the high school grades at 
Strathearn School, Montreal, this year. 


Graduated from Bishop’s 
Michael Ortenberg, S.G.W.C., Junior 
College, ’31, was awarded his Bachelor of 
Arts degree at the University of Bishop’s 
College, with honours in Philosophy. 


Graduated from Notre Dame 

Alex Wilson, S.G.W.C. graduate has ob- 
tained his Bachelor of Arts degree at Notre 
Dame University. As a star member of 
the Notre Dame track team, and as a joint- 
winning member of the Canadian Olympic 
track team of 1932, Mr. Wilson has decided 
to enter physical education. It is reported 
that he has already accepted a position as 
track coach at a well-known American uni- 
versity. 


Graduated in Detroit 


Jack Dempster, a graduate of the Eve- 
ning High School of the Sir George Wil- 
liams College, completed the work for his 
Bachelor of Science degree in the Evening 
Division of the Detroit Institution of Tech- 
nology, and was graduated at the spring 
convocation. Mr. Dempster has been em- 
ployed in Detroit, Mich., throughout his 
college course. 


At Cornell 


According to latest reports, Louis Perron, 
S.G.W.C. ’30, was still a student at Cornell 
University last year. 


At Ottawa University 
Norman C. Denys, S.G.W.C. 732, was en- 
rolled at the University of Ottawa last year. 


In Household Science 


Maureen Flaherty, 8.G.W.C., Junior Col- 
lege ’32, won the prize for the highest ag- 
gregate standing in the Junior Year of the 
Institution Adiministration Course at Mac- 
donald College last year, winning first class 
honours in Bacteriology, Chemistry, Physi- 
ology, Textiles and other subjects. Miss 
Flaherty is also a graduate of the Evening 
High School, having taken the last two 
years of her high school course and the first 
year of college in the Sir George Williams 
College Evening Division. 

Edna Shecter, S.G.W.C., Junior College 
*32 student, completed the first year of the 
B.H.S. course at Macdonald College with 
i and at the head of her first year 
class. 


Teacher’s Diploma 


Charles G. Brodie Brockwell, S.G.W.C., 
Junior College ’32, was a student in the 
School for Teachers at Macdonald College 
last year, where he was awarded his Inter- 
mediate Teacher’s Diploma. He expects to 
enter the Evening Division of the Junior 
College this year, while teaching in Mont- 
real during the day. 


Edna Mossey, S.G.W.C. ’31, secured her 
Primary Teacher’s Certificate at Macdonald 
College in 1931-32, and has been teaching 
for the past year. 

Orlo Brewer, S8.G.W.C. ’30, has also been 
teaching for some time. 


In Arts 


Edward Crelinston, S.G.W.C., Junior Col- 
lege ’32, was in second year Arts at McGill 
University. 

Raymond A. M. Montague, S.G.W.C., 
Junior College ’32, was in second year Arts, 
McGill. 

Morris Swalsky, S.G.W.C., Junior College 
’32, also in Arts II. at McGill. 

Sonnette Ross, 8.G.W.C., Junior College 
732, in Arts II. at McGill. 

Phyllis Bonar, S.G.W.C., Junior College 
722, was enrolled at McGill as a partial 
student in Arts. 

Mrs. Annie R. MacKay, S.G.W.C., Junior 
College ’30, completed second year Arts. 


7 


Wm. J. V. Buchanan, S.G.W.C. ’30, has 
been enrolled as a partial student in Arts 
for the past three years. 

Nelson MecNiff, S.G.W.C. ’26, was en- 
rolled last year as a partial student in Arts. 

William A. Barclay, S.G.W.C., was in 
third year Arts, after having already taken 
his B.Com. degree. 


In Architecture 


Harold Gillmeister, S.G.W.C. ’32, was in 
second year Architecture at McGill. 

Jack Kugel, S.G.W.C. 731, completed sec- 
ond year Architecture at the head of his 
class and with a special prize. It will be 
remembered that on graduating from the 
Evening High School, Mr. Kugel ranked 
second on the entire science matriculation 
list of McGill University. 

Maurice H. Fleishman, S.G.W.C., Junior 
College ’30, was also in second year Archi- 
tecture. 


In Science. 


Alfred Garber, S.G.W.C. 
32, completed first year of 
the B.Se. course at McGill 
with first class honours. On 
graduation from the Even- 
ing High School a year ago 
Mr. Garber ranked fourth 
in the science section list 
and eighth on the entire 
junior matriculation list of 
McGill University. While a 
student of the Sir George 
Alfred Garber Williams College he was 

twice winner of an Abner 
Kingman Scholarship. 

William P. Carter, S.G.W.C. ’32, also suc- 
cessfully completed first year Science at 
McGill. 

Clarence Franckton, S.G.W.C. ’29, was in 
first year Science. As a member of the 
McGill track team, he won the Intercolleg- 
iate three-mile championship at the 1932 
meet. 

Samson Gradinger, S.G.W.C., Junior Col- 
lege ’32, was in second year of the B.Sc. 
course at McGill. 

Joseph W. Holmes, S.G.W.C., Junior Col- 
lege ’32, in second year Science. 

G. A. Hutchinson, S.G.W.C., Junior Col- 
lege ’32, in second year in Science. 


In Medicine 


James J. Hogan, S.G.W.C. ’29, was in 
first year Medicine at McGill, after three 
years pre-medical work in Science, 

Stanley Brown, B.A., S.G.W.C. ’26, was 
in fourth year Medicine. 


In Commerce 


Harlan G. Hobble, S.G.W.C. Junior Col- 
lege ’32, was in second year Commerce at 
McGill. 

Gerald Bronfman, another former S.G.W. 
C. student, was in Commerce II. 

Lillian S. Beckow, S.G.W.C. ’31, was in 
Commerce II. 

William T. Moran, S8.G.W.C. 731, was in 
Commerce II. 

Lorne F. W. Ogilvie, S.G.W.C. ’29, was 
in Commerce III. 

Maurice H. Katz, S.G.W.C., Junior Col- 
lege ’31, was in Commerce III. 

John F. Porteous, B.A., 8.G.W.C. ’27, was 
in first year Law at McGill, after four years 
in Arts. 

William Mitchell, S.G.W.C. ’27, was in 
second year Law. 


(Continued on page 8) 


THE BULLETIN 


EVENING STUDENTS WIN HONOURS 


Although it would be quite impossible to publish the complete lists of the hun- 


dreds of students successful at the final examinations 


in May, THE BULLETIN is 


pleased to be able to give below the names of those students in each class who achieved 
Honours or Superior ranking. To secure Honours a mark of over 90% is required, 
while Superior indicates a mark of over 80%. 


JUNIOR COLLEGE, EVENING DIVISION 


Accountancy — Cools-Lartique (First in 
Class). 

Advertising—Honours:—Higgins, H. H.; 
Hill, W.; Orton, O. S. Superior:—Charest, 
P.; Gray, D.; Lasdin, Chas. 

Biology — Superior: — Kottler, Beatrice; 
Albert, Bessie; Gillman, H.H.. 

Chemistry, General—Honours:—Jones, R. 
C.; Villard, Paul. 

Chemistry, Analysis — Honours: — Adel- 
stein, R.; O’Brien, G.; Rigby, Eric. 

Economics—Honours:—Clarke, Elizabeth. 
Superior:—Leduc, Albert; Kottler, Beatrice. 

English—Kelsey, W. (First in Class). 

French—Quinn, H. F. (First in Class). 

German—Honours:—Jacobson, Edith V. 
Superior:—Hachey, Anna L.; Richards, K. 
G 


History of Civilization—Honours:—Fair- 
hurst, John J.; Lasdin, Chas. Superior:— 
Rigby, Erie J.; Davis, Clinton H. 

Mathematics—Superior:—Ferguson, A.; 
Kelsey, W. L. 


THE ROLL CALL OF GRADS. 
(Continued from page 7) 


In Engineering 


Engineering seems to be, by far, the most 
popular professional faculty among the 
graduates of Sir George Williams College. 
No less than 18 former students of the Eve- 
ning High School and the Junior College 
were in Engineering at McGill during 1932- 
33. They are: 

J. Rene P. Galarneau, B.A., S.G.W.C. 
Junior College ’32, in Engineering I. 

Wm. P. Heelan, S.K.W.C. ’31, in En- 
gineering I. 

Harry Ostrovsky, S.G.W.C. Junior Col- 
lege ’32, in Engineering I. 

Henry M. Viberg, S.G.W.C. Junior Col- 
lege 732, in Engineering I. 

Jack J. Waller, S.G.W.C. Junior College 
32 in Engineering I. 

J. Robert Wait, S.G.W.C. Junior College 
31, in Engineering II. 

David Bloom, 8.G.W.C. Junior College 
731, in Engineering II. 

Thaddeus C. Jones, 8.G.W.C. Junior Col- 
lege 31, in Engineering II. 

John R. Booth, S.G.W.C. ’30, in Engineer- 
ing II, 

Jan Foster, S.G.W.C. ’29, in Engineering 
EE; 

Carl Juzenko, S.G.W.C., in Engineering 


i. 

Herbert T. Monks, 8.G.W.C. ’29, in Engi- 
neering IT. 

Max Schnyder, 8.G.W.C. ’30, in Engineer- 
ing II. 


Oswald Barry, 8.G.W.C. Junior College 
729, in Engineering II. 

Jason H. Ingham, S8.G.W.C. ’29, in En- 
gineering II. 

Archie Piestrich, 8.G.W.C. Junior College 
729, in Engineering III. 

John D. Shortall, S.G.W.C. ’28, in Engi- 
neering III. 

Gilbert M. Young, 8.G.W.C. ’29, in Engi- 
neering III. 


Physics—Superior:—Davis, Clinton H. 

Psychology — Honours: — Renouf, C.; 
Quinn, H.; Rigby, E. Superior:—Davis, 
Clinton H.; Kottler, Beatrice; Lasdin, Chas. 

Public Speaking—Honours:—Lauterman, 
G.; Lasdin, Chas. Superior:—Mitchell, A. 
W.; Nadon, J. A.; Senical, J. O.; Blutstein, 
David; Siegerman, Thos.; Conner, G. M.; 
Malcolm, Ross; Friedman, Miss. 


EVENING HIGH SCHOOL 


First Year—Honours:—Christie, Jack. 
Superior:—LaValee, Miss Mary L.; Aronoff, 
Nathan; Norrish, Stephen; Almond, A. F.; 
Peterson, Joseph, 

Second Year—Honours:—Cooke, W. A.; 
Ure, Alex G.; Sturgess, H. C. Superior:— 
Speare, Miss Olive; Wadsworth, Frank; 
Harrison, Bernard; Donaldson, Geo.; South, 
Wm. J. 

General Course, Third Year—Superior:— 
Wylie, Robt. M.; Ireland, Miss Mary. 

General Course, Fourth Year—Superior: 
—Rudolph, Frances. 

College Preparatory Course—Third Year 
——Superior:—McKelvey, John C.; Luciani, 
Victor; Dalgleish, D. 


EVENING INSTITUTE OF BUSINESS 
AND TECHNOLOGY 


Bookkeeping (Elem.) — Honours:—Doob, 
O.; Bader, R.; Lambert, W. S.; Walford, 
Evelyn; Young, Campbell; Hardy, Alice; 
Bliss, H. F.; McKinnon, V. S.; Salter, F.; 
Lambert, Violet. Superior: — Champion, 
Joan; Greville, R. E.; Littlejohn, Miss M.; 
Thompson, C.; McKenzie, R.; Cunningham, 
R.; Franke, Fritz.; Robinson, H. E.; Robert- 
son, G.; Bathe, R.; Clark, G. 

Bookkeeping (Adyv.)—Roberts, R. (First 
in Class). 

Bookkeeping — Honours:— Atkinson, Ed- 
gar. Superior:—Williscroft, W. 

Business Arithmetic — Superior:—Wood, 


Business English — Superior: — Hardy, 
Alice. 

Business Science—Honours:—Bovington, 
Frank. 

Electricity—Johnson, A. (First in Class). 

English Conversation (Elem.)—Courval, 
Henri (First in Class). 

English Conversation (Adyv.)—Superior: 
—Laurin, Alice. 

French Conversation (Elem.)—Honours: 
—King, Nora. Superior:—Toft, Harold; 
Jezequel, Miriam. 

French Conversation (Inter.)—Superior: 
Levine, Issie; Hill, Marjorie; Goldberg, Dor- 
othy; Willock, Ronald J.; Sanders, Reg.; 
Steinberg, Lillian; Colson, C. E. 

French Conversation (Adv.)—Superior:— 
Ingham, J.; Sirk, C. M.; Clarke, Elizabeth. 

Industrial Organization — Superior: — 
Abramsen, A.; Viau, L. 

Mechanical Drawing (Elem.)—Honours: 
Christie, J. W.; Coleman, F. J.; Pollock, R.; 
Brown, T. A. Superior:—Martin, A. 

Mechanical Drawing (Inter.)—Honours: 
Philip, M.; Pritchett, S.; Johnson, T. A.; 
Greer, A. Superior:—McDermott, P. W. L.; 
Steele, C. S.; Verrinder, A.; Strike, C. E. 


8 


SEPTEMBER 1, 1933 


EIGHTY GRADS 
AT UNIVERSITY 
DURING 1932-33 


67 Former S.G.W.C. Students Were 
at McGill Last Year 


No less than 80 graduates of the Sir 
George Williams College Evening High 
School or Junior College were in attendance 
at universities and other institutions of 
higher learning during the academic year 
1932-33. Some 67 of these were in the 
various faculties of McGill University, 
while at least 16 were attending other in- 
stitutions. 

The Colleges which these graduates were 
attending are as follows: 


McGill College, Arts Division 
McGill College, Science Division .. 10 
McGill, Faculty of Engineering.... 20 


McGill, Dept. of Architecture...... 5 
McGill, Dept. of Commerce........ 8 
MeGilll Maculty (of Law... 9. +s 3 
McGill, Faculty of Medicine....... 1 
McGill, Faculty of Music.......... 1 
Macdonald College, Household 

GIONCEY ceiavere des ip. 5)550 605 55" 4b ie Cero 2 
Macdonald College, School for 

EORCHETS' «5 5:3,c.cincotutes a kiomemeenes ee 1 
Queen’s University ............... 2 
Ottawa UMIVeTSIOVicseance sees a eas it 
Notre Dame University........... i 
University of Bishops College....: 1 
Detroit Institute of Technology.... 1 
Cornell WUMIVERSIEG Woe lose See es 1 
Northwestern University ......... 1 
Worsing Schools: 2 ve s0 5 cwssawcs oe 5 


As the records of the College regarding 
graduates are of necessity incomplete, it is 
possible that several others are attending 
out-of-town Colleges and Universities. 


Mechanical Drawing (Adv.)—Honours:— 
Leathwood, Ben.; Cochrane, J. W.; Jeffries, 
E. 
Practical Mathematics—Honours:—Stur- 
gess, H. C. 

Shorthand (Elem.) Section A—Honours: 
—Hackett, G.; Carmichael, L.; Valette, M.; 
Westcott, R.; Macintyre, M.; Addler, S.; 
Walford, Evelyn; Hutchins, Chas.; Shave, 
Norman; Mackenzie, R. Superior:—Scho- 
field, J.; Smith, Kent; Marshall, Norman; 
Carruthers, L.; Bell, Percy. 

Shorthand (Elem.) Section B—Honours: 
—Freeman, N.; Matthews, Gladys; Calvert, 
J.; MacArthur, Mary. Superior:—Nott, 
Geo. 

Shorthand (Elem.) Section C—Honours: 
LaVallee, Mary Louise; Kimmel, Nettie. 
Superior:—Gillender, Mildred; Ellis, Wm.; 
Dunean, Art.; Henderson, Victor. 

Shorthand (Adv.) Section A—Honours: 
—McKelvey, John; McManus, J.; March- 
itiello, Y.; Mitchell, Chas. Superior:—Mac- 
Laren, Margaret; Gregory, Ruth; Smith, 
Sadie. 

Shorthand (Adv.) Section B—Honours: 
Neville, Mollie; Oliver, Lillian; Champion, 
Joan. Superior:—Hollins, C. W.; Lawson, 
Thos.; Bovington, F. 


EVENING GRAMMAR SCHOOL 
Middle Form—Superior:—Dugal, Albert. 
Upper Form—Honours:—Hendley, Ron- 
ald. Superior:—Harrison, Aubrey; Green- 
wood, Wm.; Mullins, Leslie; Paton, Jack. 
Adult Form—Honours:—Mitchell, Eileen; 
Graits, Agatha. Superior:—Guerin, Sam- 
uel; Harrison, Gordon; Dichow, Kaj. 


