‘, ‘ye Vol. 45 


Kemp Kanawana Saturday, July 23, 1938 


CIRCUS DAY ATTRACTS VISITORS 


Many members of the Kemp Kanawane Gommittee were present at the annual camp 
circus, where another form of camp versatility was exhibited. Many prospective 
P. T. Barnums were gathered on Junior campus last Thursdey, nearly every tent 
having erected a booth in the midway. The booths ranged from games of skill to 
refreshment stands. An exhibit a little out of the ordinary was the seniors’ 
"Hall of Science" Where campers were sent on the path to a B. Sc. for the nom- 
inal sum of one cent. Some of the games of skill were Ring Toss, Ball Throwing, 
Penny Toss, Nail Hammering, and others. One of the more notable of these wes 
& concession where one might wreak one's vengeance on any of the camp staff 
(in cardboard) by sockine them with tennis balls....The Doc hit the chief three 
times in succession and won an oranges Refresh~ents were sold in rany forms, 
including ice cveem sundaes, plain ice cream, soft drinks, hot-dogs, potato 
chins, hamburgers, marshmallows, popcorn, and cendy. As a result, very few 
went in for general swim that afternoon. 


Thursday evenine the program con 7- 
enced with a circus parade, led by Frenk 
Sharpe masquere.ding as-Haile Selessic, . 
and Norm | allace making a perfect clown. 

The evening continued with ten acts 

of vaudeville under the big top (the 

lower pavillion). The hit of the show: 

wes the vrestlinc match betveen Norm 
Wallace. end the masked marvel, whose 
identity is uncertain. Derrick Crossey - ' 
was the master of ceremonies with his 
"Lew Lehr" accent, and Walter Harris 
again demonstrated his super-human strength under hypnotism induced by Papazian. 
Influenza, the horse who seems almost human (we wonder why), was in attendance 
with her offspring, Influenza Jr., and the guitar duet of Phil Simpson and Dave 
Savage was called back for an encore Clark Merritt did some of his acrobatic 
clowning, which was enthusiastically received. 


a 


Circus Day, besides being a lot of fun, tends to develop initiative and a 
sense of responsibility, and for these reasons it is an institution which we 
hope will be continued in yeers to come. 


’ toed ABD tas ot eagle al 4 4 I, Sa 4a ty 


i 
ae EDITORIAL STAFF F 


Editors: Morrey Cross and Rigo Pelletier 

Art Editor: Bob LeMoyne 

Circuletion Manager: Ed Power 

Business Menager: Doug Dilks t= gag 


iE 
ADVICE TO NEV CAMPERS 


. 


i. Lic.out in the sun for hours at a time and let the doctor see you. Also let 

him watch you practise knife-throwing....He'1ll aporeciate it. ee 
2. When you see John Pearson coming in the dining hall, begin throwing the butter 
around.....He'll love you for it. 


3. Come into the dining hall any time you wish. The chief doesn't mind. 


4. Don't pay any attentiou when Norm Wallace yells "All off the wharf (please), 
because he's only kidding. 


5. If you desire to become friendly with Aubrey Bayley, enquire at any time of day 


as to the state of your bank account.+..«-eHée just loves visitors after bank __ 
hours, ‘ey aoe ieagsi a 


6 


The "Mount. Royal" is the meeting=place for dll Juvehiles....It is such a large 
place that Brock Brace is lonely without all you Juveniles milling about, 


7. Take all the tools you want out of the Q.M.S.,and leave them around your sect= 
ions....Basil Burgess enjoys very much to spend a few hours a day hunting for 
them....After all, he has to do Something while here in Kamp. ' 


sede 
5 SOM _HARDWIOK WINS cowrssT 


Tom Hafdwick was the winner of the stupendous contest which appeared in the 
GREEN TRIANGLE of last week. For those poor unfortunates who were unable to com~ 
plete the puzzle, we present the correct solution: = 
THIS RAPER IS PRINTED UNDER THR AUSPICES OF THE PUBLISHERS' GUILD. 

Simple, wasn’t it? And yet we received very few solutions. Get to work on 
this week's contest bolew. 


Ott 

CONTEST 
bibinestonseseesonsioscensgcon ace sicdsace econ ANION HERR HK ENRON 
wy SP8r 


%  Unseramble the lctters in the fcllowing words, and re~arrange these to | 34 
a3 form a logieel sertence:: iin Age 
hth : . 


wh 

: 
’s . ‘ : woe 
a , - mor apne Poaecoms ~ — - mrosz, ran = RTor t. pte a 
4: TALE EWG Stl eee Spynaes a ES SEP OS TEE Pe eS Basan we 
A a Be Aaa abs Ea bales ere Bt Ts fA ‘ ne aes 
‘ eha dn you soluvccn to Ein-n Pollstior, TL Sate ssetinn, Sap 


4 e . . eed 
brie ie Panera hat ear ie 11h aa awe v 5 (ioe tea 5 as ne a ' ‘ " ” ae 


| 


7 Count not the Cost 
‘or, The Story of Three Fish 


Once upon last Monday morn, “The Chief's first part fast went astray 
The Chief, with greatest joys, He lost the road; and soon 

Picked up rods and reels and things The car snapped something in the rear 
And also two smart boys. And shrieked like Becsies loon. 

He said, “Now, pals, let's take a trip "Please, Madam, let me use your phone: 
Through steep Laurentian ‘hills; I'm chief at great big camp.” 

The cost will be no cost at all, "Go 'way, you dirty, greasy man, 
So there will be no bills"”- I know you're just a tramp." 

"There's Montfort many miles away - But still the Chief eventually got 
Nuwego's lake is near: To Montfort's lake at night, 

And if we don't catch plenty fish, To find that all the friends he knew 
'T will be something mighty queer." Had vanished out of sight. 

tind we can camp at friends I know 0 sight forlorn, those fishers three - 
Who'll feed us like three kings: No friends, no car, no boat: 

They'1l even put us up at night No fish, no sleep, no food, and now - 
In beds where no bell rings." The Chief was made the goat. 

"T was Robbie Burns who truthfully said & bill, next day, came with the car: 
Theat plens of mice and men The Chief roared; "Men alivet" 

oft go astray though planned with care For after hetd read dollar sign - 
And checked and planned again. He saw a *thirty-five'. 


iene 


KANAWANA SWIMMING CHAMPIONS CROWNED 


Splasht Theytre offt The senior 50 yds. free style is on its wey. When the 
spray has cleared, the churning whirlpool emerging already fron the contestants 
is Nod Mahon--he tears through the vater to win the event; and all the other 
sonior events too, in the all-camp swimming meet on Tuesday, July 19. Ned has 
shown himself to be an exceptional swimmer, end one who deserves all Applause 
from his fellows. On Tuesday, he cleaned the lake-bed, so to speak, and beat 
out the other divers as well. 
In the Junior section, the competition was much keener; 
Bob Mahon, Phici daheron and Junior Taylor being literally 
at one another's weeks for first place. Eventually, 
however, Bob Menon, the brother of the Senior champion, 
emerges victorious having won the breast stroke, obtain- 
ed second in the diving, ami third in the 50 yard free 
style for juniors. Junior Taylor and Feter and Ian Cam- 
eron put up a grand fight in ell events, but were beaton 
on all-round points. 
In the Jyvenile meet, Harry Hamilton was winner over Doug. 
McGiblis by a small margin. ‘The ved and green. hat events 
Se eal Ne were keenly contested and provided fun for everybody. 
The leaderst section of the mect was a great success, with Bob Payne defeating the 
field with two wins, in diving and free sytle. Before the meet, Ned Mahon attempted 
to break his last year's across the leke record of 1 min. 39 sec. and failed to do 
so by a few seconds. 
zs The meet was run off very smoothly by the officials under Norman Wallace and 
Brock Brace and we hope for another one in the near future. 


