Volume 1 Issue 3 
Dear Fellow Kanawanian: 
As Kanawana enters its 100th year the work of the Alumni Committee will become more visible; not only to former 
kampers and staff, but to the public as well. Planning for 1994 is one thing, but making it happen will require your 
help, dedication and lots of support. 


We are still looking for this support in a number of areas. Your $25.00 annual membership, your comments, 
submissions to the Newsletter and especially your help and time in order to make this celebration one to be 
remembered. 


One striking and recurring theme that we have all noticed is the influence of the Kanawana experience, the spirit 
of Kanawana lives in all of us, join us, make our 100th anniversary a resounding success. 


We can always be reached at: 
Phone(514)849-5331 


or Kanawana Alumni 
Fax (514)849-5863 c/o Kamp Kanawana 
1441 Drummond Street, Montreal, Quebec 
H3G 1W3 


Non Nobis Solum 


Summer Report 


by Bruce Netherwood, Director 


Kanawana's 99th summer has 
come to a close, and another page 
has turned on this notable 
institution that has become 
synonymous with spirit and 
friendship. It is with great 
pleasure that we inform the 
Alumni that the past summer was 
by all accounts, a smashing 
success. The following is a brief 
synopsis of the summer of '93. 


After the dismal weather from 
the previous summer, and the 
early forecasts for a repeat 
performance in '93, this summer's 
weather was truly a blessing. As 
a result of the abundance of 
sunshine, the nature room and 
other indoor programs remained 
virtually vacant, the infirmary 
had a surplus of cough drops and 
a constant shortage of sunscreen. 
Campers and staff alike actually 
stayed in the water during 
Lumberman- Voyageur morning 


dip! 


For the fifth consecutive year 
camper registration was filled to 
over 99% capacity. As well, four 
Voyageur trips were taken along 
with 38 camper trips, including 
three Junior excursions. All in 
all, over four hundred Kana- 
wanians paddled the waterways 
of Papineau Labelle and Pare La 
Verendrye during this past 
summer. 


After a relatively big staff 
turnover in '92, Kamp boasted an 
80% return rate over the past 
summer. Aside from the regular 
contingent of Montrealers, we 
were also fortunate enough to 
welcome staff from Vancouver, 
Calgary, Halifax and England and 
Scotland as well. 


And....For those of you who still 
remain true to one team 
Lumberman-Voyageur was 
narrowly won by the Voyageurs.! 


Lost and Found 


We thought we would start this column with an embarrassing 
admission; we are missing current addresses for some of the past 
directors of Kamp Kanawana. If any of you know the 
whereabouts of any of these people please write in and let us 
know. David Twynam (79-82), Tom Potts (part of 72), Jim Turner 
(?-71), Jeff Anderson (?), or any other director, staff or campers. 
We are also looking for Sheila Leigh a section director from the 
70's. 


If you have lost contact with a special Kanawanian, and would 
like us to give you a hand in locating them, drop us a note along 
with your membership fee, and we will pass on an address or a 
phone number to you. If we don't already have the name listed, we 
will include the name in the next lost and found. 


Can you identify these Kanawanians? If so, please let us know... 


POT LUCK COFFEE HOUSE 


Come and join us for a Coffee House style evening at the Block 
House, Saturday November 20, 1993. Bring your sleeping bag 
and food and enjoy the weekend at K.K. Space is limited, so 
reserve now! 

Call Bill Flaschner at 334-7282. Cost is $10.00. 


Contributions, Contributions, Contributions... 

If you have any interesting pictures, poems, stories, suggestions or 
contributions for the Newsletter, we'd like to hear from you! Please 
phone, mail or Fax your contributions to The Alumni Newsletter 
c/o Kamp Kanawana. 


A VIEW OF THE 
CLOSING BANQUET 


FROM THE GUEST TABLE 


by Itche Kerr 

My invitation to this years 
closing banquet was written at 
summer's end 1977. I wrote it myself 
late one night with some help from 
three friends. What we wrote was as 
spontaneous as love itself. One 
moment there was nothing the next, a 
song which payed tribute to friends, a 
place, an experience we loved. I had 
forgotten all about the song. 
Something as ethereal as a song at a 
summer camp should have easily 
vanished into the mists of time. 
Somehow, the next summer it was 
remembered and it has been sung 
every summer since. Much like the 
names on the ancient plaques that 
haunt the dining hall; my Kamp 
nickname has always accompanied 
any introduction to the song as the 
mysterious author of long ago. Being 
a visitor at Kamp is always a bit 
awkward. Kamp is an intense and 


machinery being there is a whole 
different experience. 

I visited pre-Kamp last summer 
with the excuse of doing a song 
workshop. I arrived early and 
unannounced and went exploring. I 
encountered three staff on the trails. 
In the polite awkwardness that 
followed my excuses for invading the 
sacred territory of pre-Kamp I 
grasped for some connection. I 
introduced myself by my old Kamp 
nickname. There are stories from the 
early days of aviation history of 
explorers who ventured in float 
planes in vast jungles and 
encountered tribes who had never 
seen the edge of their wilderness. 
Some of these explorers discovered 
on returning a second time years later 
that they had been iconized and in 
fact had been elevated to the stature 
of Gods. What those early 
adventurers felt on seeing their own 
effigies was no less than the surprise I 
felt by the obvious awe and 
amazement in the faces of those three 
staff." You wrote that song!" 


Keeping the spirit... 


intimate community for both 
kampers and staff. A stranger from 
the past, soon realizes with remorse, 
that when one is not one of the 
whirring gears of the Kamp 


Bill F laschner, Scott Phelan, Rick Lozoff, Tom Snabl 


I don't visit Kamp often enough 
to get used to it. Something always 
surprises me. The beauty of the site 
overwhelms me. It takes me days to 
catch my breath. 


The closing banquet was no 
exception, I saw a summer's worth of 
emotions. I felt a cheer send a chill 
down my spine. To call it a cheer is 
inadequate. It was a blast of human 
energy that would rival the roar of 
any soccer stadium crowd. The 
Voyageurs had won the Lumberman- 
Voyageur competition! 


.. with an Alumni canoe trip! 


Rob Braide 


How can parents ever understand 
the intensity of emotions at Kamp. 
Children return home who've lost 
their voices from singing and 
shouting, their eyes are swollen and 
bloodshot from tearful farewells and 
they swear it was the best time ever. 
Well O.K. 

Many Kampers and staff stood 
up during the banquet and delivered 
eloquent and moving testimonials to 
their friends. One young person 
thanked the greatest bunch of women 
ever for working with her and talked 
about empowerment. What a great 
word. I think It describes what goes 
on at Kamp. Adventuring, trying new 
things, taking good risks and 
succeeding. Empowerment. 


me 


ENDOWMENT FUND CREATED IN MEMORY OF A SINGING FRIEND 


Any of us who knew Maureen McBride sang with her many times. That was her greatest gift and how we 
will remember her. She had a long career in Outdoor Education, she was a teacher at Dawson College, a 
Camp Director at Camp Oolahwan and had long associations with both the YWCA and YMCA. She was 
a member of the Board of Directors of Kamp Kanawana. 


Maureen could perhaps best be described as the Johnny Appleseed of singing. She knew how to awaken a 
joy of singing. The magic she worked through her song sessions on the many hundreds of us who were her 
students, camp counselors and campers changed all of us forever. 


Maureen McBride died May 8th, 1993, after a long battle with cancer. She spent her last days at the 
cottage she shared with friends in Newaygo Junction. Maureen will be remembered for her gracious 
dignity, her sense of fun, and a generosity of spirit that few of us can summon. 


In appreciation for all the work and care that Maureen gave to Kamp Kanawana and in memory of her 
time with us, the Maureen McBride Endowment fund has been established to provide camperships for 
children whose parents could not otherwise afford to send them to camp. Any Contributions are welcome. 
Please contact Richard Kerr at (514) 634-5061 or the Kamp office at (514) 849-5331 for more 
information. 


GRATEFUL 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS K.K. KLASSIFIEDS 
Sunday Nov. 14th , 11-6 Day in Tibet. Tibetan 


he ype He TS as eiipie ix! space 0 i. Bazaar. Traditional Tibetan dancing and folk 
those who have become Kanawana Alumni. : a 4 : 
music, Continual movie screening, Lhasa 


Both your initiative and contributions are greatly kitchen. Buy Tibetan handy crafts, carpets, 


appreciated. ; oP } ' 
Tieank-you to?’ Tom Snabl, Ben Hannan Roped antiques, textiles, jewelry and books. Special 


Miller, Peter Marosi, David Paltiel, Anne es meng 4 ee a, ata Ged () 
ictoria Hall, Westmount. 
Goodyear, Ken Mackeracher, Bernard(Max)Gotz, E 2 
; ar : ntrance fee, $3.00, $2.00 seniors. 
Sharon Levine, William Flaschner, Richard Children under 12. free 
(Itche)Kerr, Marcil Courtois, Pamela Manning, ret ors 
Gerry Lozoff, Tessa Herbert, Ann Erb, Burke 
Lawrence, Rolf Calhoun, Rick Deterding, Karen 
Deterding, Susan Hough, Rick Lozoff, Gerry 
Burke, Lisa Hagglund, Thomas Micheal, Margot 
Levine , Rob Braide, Sam Boskey, Gavin Turley, 
Ron George, Carol Packwood, Dave Robillard, 
Susan Gottman, Murry Shantz, John Cleghorn, 
Harold Bedoukian, Roger Wilson, Allan Albett, 
Chris Seton, Ian Black, Rick Patten, Jane Taylor, 
Dave Bennet, Dr. Rob Preston,Pat Halliday, Bill 
Halliday, Pat Bannerman, Yves St Pierre, Cary 
Lawrence - Lapierre 
MEMBERSHIP CARDS ARE ON THE WAY! 


Want to sell your canoe? Got a great Hiking trip 
planned? We are glad to announce this new 
addition to the features of The Lookout; 

We welcome anyone to put an ad in the 
classified section. If you are already a member of 
the Alumni, there is no charge for your ad, if not, 
yet you wish to submit an ad there will be a small 
fee. Please direct your ads or inquiries to: 

The Alumni Klassifieds 

c/o/ Kamp Kanawana 

1441 Drummond St. Mtl, Que 

H3G 1W3 


News for all of you Ontarians out there... Should you require any information about the 
Alumni or need to communicate with us please call: Lisa Hagglund (416) 367-4345 (Toronto) 
or David Bennet (613)746-1248 (Ottawa). If you would like to be a contact person in your 
area, please let us know. 


Printing, typesetting and paper donated by Les Entreprises Spectragraphic Inc. Printed on recycled paper 


