THE GREEN TRIANGLE 


ee eee eee Sia ee ac ce 


7 AN AVILA ail 7 7 
JULY 29, 1940, "KANAVANA'S GREATEST NEWSPAPER = AND ONLY ONE" VOL 47 No 4 
iene serteeneieete eee ee ae = ‘ 


KANAVANA CIRCUS PROVES SUCCESS 

Thursday afternoon on the Junior Campus was reverberant with cries of "-this way 
to sce the fattest man ever", and "Rlease don't feed the monkeys", and atl such shouts as 
usually accompany a reputable circus..eyes, Kanawana wag staging its annual circus, and 
it was better than ever, 

Literally hundreds of booths, with everything from games of skill to riding thé _ 
graceful and swift steed of M. Page. One enterprising group was selling "Surprise Package” 
tickets, but these turned out to be a lemon to most who bought them. But of course the best 
liked booths of all were the Ice Cream and Soft Drink stand, and the Hamburger Shop. 

Allin all some 330 oranges were distributed, but Chief failed to reach the all camp 
record for winning them. He set this record in 1935, when he won 110 oranges, either by 
hook or by crook. In all, 5122 tickets were sold, and 240 soft drinks were imbibed, 

The biggest attraction of all was the horse (Ye should say mare). Although it was 
tame enough to teke most of Juvenile Camp for rides, it also succeeded in throwing the 
business manager. Kanawana's "Three Men On A Horse", Roby Kidd, Tom Hardwick, and our 
daring @.M. could not hold theie seats either, and also bit the dust. The clowning of 
Ross Seaman, Jack Liddy, and Chief Kolah gave the afternoon a real circus spirit. 


~--000000000--- 
Ama egenrc SATE eens a ee SIT ns ey a cnt oa ee ae eS ee, a er We ete a 
B ¥ TH 
— STORY oes PAPER Ye would like to offer our thanks to Mr. 
The Montreal Y.M.C.A. has operated a io Stent without. whose Baststencadc 
camp in the Laurentians for the past forty- Ernie Stabler, w ing ae 


: i W a been possible 
four years. During those years, a weekly camp *88ue would not have been p RS Soe | 2 
newspaper has been prepared, known first as é F : 
ees FLASH--=" av ust received news that 
the "Gas Bag", and more recently as the Nesges oe : H ae A a ees of senior camphave 
fe 3 1 3 1 Y S 3 mpna 
Triangle", which was read orally at the Sat- ay ae Eat soe ks aS havien: ode 
urday night entertainments. It wes found, how-been thoroughly beaten. y = 


ever thet there was difficulty in following John Swmerby were the victorious pair, and 
the reading of the news attentively, and so +0 Ed and Roby we offer our condolences. s 
was born the printed camp newspaper of 1937, ‘Said the losers,'"e don't remember BHD Rots 
This is the forty-seventh year that Said the winners, "They put up a good Liebe 
the camp newspaper has been produced. The , but they were not able to cope with the skill 


: F i ts." 
season is half over, butthere are still Spree ene 
issues to come out after this one. If more 


u Ty 4 rf ike kK 
fellows dig in and write up camp news, there ae erie Oe a ee 
i oI v j j ; os nis D 2 \ : apr 
<a aia es ae sioudd “net bo eae wal reciation of Mrs. Cameron's cooking, 

~~ EDITOE UNIOR CAMP NOTES 

EDITORIAL STAFF TUNOR CAME NOTES : 
Raitor=-in-chicf Tom Lavson The new basketball court will be in 
Juvenile Editor.......Keith Farquharson sheape-by bie Bees piece he Weel. 
Junior editor Lionel Ulley Martin Swithinbank and Chris Christie 
Senior Editor. ee eae McCullough are to be congratulated for the splendid 
business Managerseceseeeo Wallace Beaton way in which they organized their booths 
ih CS BOY esa bc ove cede eee UNior Taylor for the circus. 

SPUD THE CROW Imagine Ed Raaflaub's surprise when 


: Se a ; ta Pe 
Since Kent Richardson returned with his a eis ee ee eee i ofthe flag at 
pet crow, we have received numerous complaints SS Ease LOS ut ye 


from Junior Camp that they are being wakenca oa Jie a Bete 
up at four o'clock-in the morning, Ye heart-  ‘thisweek. = et ’ 
ily sympathise with these unfortunates, they Crosseys sate bem Bs 


heve good caws for complaint. 


Tae Chee? - the meet VOLLEYBALL = SENIORS VE. JUNIOR LEADERS 
with the Boys! excitement ~~ ON “thursday night the senio-s played the 
oye soa senpetition junior leaders at vollevcell. Senior campis 

and mary anne “ Larton, Joe Stoyestory is as follows: The ogee leaders won 
and Tenis Bret Snosen, the first game with luck, then blew up and. 
Secon after sday y lost the second. However iiiek farcred them 
several hikes #ft for Shawrridge end at 11,00 again, and they piled up a good lead at the 
o'clock the zeams sot out in the truck. On beginning of the thi:ed game.They won their 
arriving at wh hes T2 one Yolwle!s gold friemicgfifteenth point juss as they weve about to 


Cs] 


3 

“led us to pienis tables 
miik., After ‘din ee this sams 

arounc the clean, well-tept 


ic AES 
tne 


Drought; us cool 
boy showed us 


farina buiddings, 


The besebali game zot uucor re; 
o*clock withn the Porn teen “sdds-on" favour- 
ites, It vas a close gaue ail the way, wiyh 
"Parkie! Delis, Aanewana came 


pitching steaay j 
out on top by the soo 
game Dixcn, the Shawbead 
the cup to Robie Kidd, 

in the ar k meot,. Kanawana was not so 
successful. Poss Seaman won the 16@ ydas,dash3 
Joe Stoye came ig eR in the mils, and 
Lionel iane second in tye £20 yds. and third 
in the 440, 

In the svi 


After the 


ahnout £,00 story 


Ze csapteain, presented 


events, Roger Jaeger starred 


blow up again. 

Senior camp always have a good excuse. 
We leave it to yor to decide what theiz 
is worth, 


FARMWELL TO KAN LAVTANLA. 

Farevel: to che Vebart , counsellors, and 
campers, who, one and ali. made our visit 
one to be remembered. Tomorrow we are leav- 
ing dear old Kanawana, leaving behind fond 
faces, but taking back with us memories tha 
will be cherished and retained in our upper 
most thoughts. Fri endships formed in camp 
should always be. 


The spirit, work amd play of the camp 


winn*ng the diving and thoz s0yds. free-style, is so blended shat our stay at Kanawana has 
Other stand-outs for the Comp wero Junior been extremely enjoyable, and elvays will 


Taylor, John Birkett, and Shris Christie, 


TOOT TTT et tet eee Qtr ar erss 


gach and every tert trom 
Section put on # gooé@ show for 


SEOTTON. 
the Senior 
vhe circus. 


They were also prominent in the "Grand Parade" 


and Joe Stosy held the limelight 
original costume, 

Senior Camp is noted for its cleanliness. 
However, imagine our surprise wien watching 
their morning dip, we saw someone using soaptt 
It has been traditional for seniors to clean 
themselves ony on friday aights. On these 
great occasions eS use mud, 

Regarding waterfront activities » Huntly 
Ferguson, Pete Lemoine, end Nick Tsedilas are 
méking remarkable progress.in swimming, Doug 
Fairbairn reports that on Friday there were 
six seniors in the Life Saving class, and sev- 
eral others ave working on their bronze medal- 
Lion, 


with a very 


be cherished. 

Camp life here et this unique Location, 
the whispsringtrees and lopping water ever 
aid the strengthening of spirit, mind and 
hody, the theme of Kanawana life, 


On parting we are taking with us the 
hope that some day we will return to tread 
the cemping grounds once more and enter in: 
to the full life end happiness 

Until then we bid our fondest goodbyes. 


Dave and Don 
Junior Councillors 1940 


Inview of the fact that Marshall 
Lebeau appeared at the hospital with a 
large splinter in his posterior, the 
doctor has added his voice to the pop- 
ular demand for armchairs at the staff 
tables. 


— ——— 


me rr ee ee 


The Green triangle (continuca) Page 3 
JUVENILE SECTION NEVS 
THIRD INDIAN POW WOW IS GREAT SUCCESS 

As the shades of night stole softly over the juvenile campus, young braves fron 
every cabin and tent, headed by the little chiefs, formedva colorful procession and 
marehed silently into the council ring with torches aloft. 

Hereupon the fire was lighted, although not exactly as the Indian would have 
done it. A striking effect was produced by this ingenious method. Chief Kolah then 
‘smoked the pipe of perce. Following this there were prayers for the Indian gods of 
seasons and winds--especially Ya-Kandah, the supreme god. 

Then emerging from the tepee and gliding past the totem pole came the little 
chiefs to present a dance which depicted the killing of a bear. Before retiring, 
feathers were presented to various braves, and a story was told by @hief Kolah. 


RED FEATHER TESTS PASSED 
Alec Cherney has finally succeeded in passing his third degree, thus entitling 
him to become a fullmember of the Order of the Red Feather. This coveted honour is 
very rare indeed, and to attain it requires a good deal of hard industrious work. 
Along with Alec's, several other awards were presented at Friday’s Indian cer- 
emonies. As a result, several more young braves are on their way to the coveted Red 
Feather Award. 


CRAFT SHOP IN FULL S‘ING 

The Juveniles, aided by four Juvenile Leaders and Ross Seaman, have been turning 
out articles in great quantity and quality. The main interest has been show in the 
making of boats, These boats, mostly of the sail type, are made very well and an ass- 
ortment of them may be seen by any interested onlooker in the Craftshop. 

While the main part of the Juveniles was helping to win back the coveted baseball 
trophy for Kanawana, most of the Juvenile camp marched over to Lake Becsies to spend 
the day. A great time was had by all, even those who had been there before. The sandy 
beach is especially good for red hats to learn swimming, and it is hoped that more 
Similar programs will be planned. 


THE CANDY STORE 

There has been much discussion as to which is the most important event of the vear. 
Some say it is the circus; others say it is the annual meet with the ‘hawbridge boys. 
None of these in my opinion, and I am sure you will agree with me, is the most impor- 
tant event. The most important event of the season happens six days a week. It is of 
course the Candy Store. 

After the last announcement has been announced, and the last songsung, there is a 
noisy stampede towards the candy store, Juveniles, Juniors, and Seniors alike join in 
this cendy crusade. Then when one has steved in line for at least half an hour (it seems) 
for.a debit slip, he hag to line upto get his candy. 

Each fellow has a choice of at least twenty kinds of sweets.The three best sellers 
are Macintosh Toffee, Crackajack Popcorn, and Swectie Pie bars. Last Saturday there vas 
a new record for the number of one kind of bar sold.-This wes 78 of Macintosh Toffee. 
The average sale for one day is 200 bars, and on Saturday 300. 

The worst seller (we dontt mind telling you) was Molasses mints. It took four weeks 
to sell four dozen bars. However whatevr candy a person prefers, the customer is alvays 
nebiged ales 

FLAGH:. Bud iLeplane has received, a special invitatiow for an audition at 
radio station C.B.M. Here's wishing Bud the bést of luck over the week end. 


