| 
| 
| 
| 
1. 
| 
| 


§ 


i 


Jrkeeerabes ; 
dase er 


Kamp Kanawana aes . a Sate, July 29, 1959 


ee Se eee Cs 


id 


é + - 
Son Seneeneneineetiinanet eaeeneasieaiattaaeneninanammmmmemneteneeeeaianiie 


WEATHER FORECAST - Fair and warm, with F wichebic thunder showers ‘followed by snow 
flurries. Who knows? 


GEL aS NEE vr eeae f 


NOTICH TO SECTIONS 


ion will be followed. Each section will be allotted a full page and.will be respon- . 
sible for the news therein. Consequently, if part of a page is left blank, the omiss- 
ion signifies that not eriough news has been received from that section. 

The reason for the adoption of this new system is to distribute more even~ 
ly the "Green Triangle™news. It is anticipated that this arrangement will prove 
successful and that cach section will cooperate in filling its allottcd news space. 


Beginning with this issue of "The Green Triangle" a new system of product- 


JACK BUSBY 


Last weck Jack Busby, of Junior Camp, surtered a ince injury on the: baso~ 
Shalt field which made it’necessary for him to go to the city for treatment. Your 
editors and his many friends tn camp wish him a speedy recovery and hope that he will 
be able to return to camp this scason. 


BEATON AND SETLAKWH MAKE RECORD 


Three wocks ago Leonard Beaton and Henri Setlakwe could not swim a stroke. 
Within the last weck both swam across the lake! This remarkable performance merits 
recognition by the whole camp. We doubt whether any two non-swimmers have cver before 
meade such progress. 


WATERFRONT NOTES 


Under tho new system of afternoon ani evening boating, only those campers 
who ha se ae tho required tests are allowed to use the boats during these free per- 
jlods. wing instruction commences down at the Junior and Juvenile wharves. at the 
first a after breakfast. 

{ 


H@AR YE! HAR YE! HAR YEt.. 


I, the undersigned, do hereby challenge anyone in Camp to a slingshot shoot- 
ing contest on Tucsday afternoon. All persons must make their own slingshots and 
must, of course, be cxperts. 


(signed) John Hall 


ot ene 


NATUR NOTES 
> roy Ken Westervelt 


Our fenthered neighbour of the Junior Campus apparently has decided that 
it is too dangerous to try raising a family so near a public highway. We have not yet 
besn able to determine where Madame Junco hes established her new residence, but wo 
wish her great success in her family affairs. 

Almost within a feather's throw of the Junior Campus is? dining-hall which 
has gained 2 widespread reputation among feathered and furred specimens. Mr. and Mrs. 
Sapsucker discovered carly this spring that the sap of a certain yellow birch lacked 
nOLTINg to be desired. Since that time they have (continued on page four) i 


RN en ee re a RR A RR RR At I RR RN NR A HE : 
. = : > - _ — oa penne 


ABNOR SROTION. NEWS oo cae by 
Editor:= Alan Clogg 
TWILIGHT TALKS 


Considerable interest has been showmm in Senior Section in short 
informal talks and demonstrations in various sciences. Such subjects as cell- 
division, atom smashing, frog disection and chick embryology have been touched. It is 

felt that the interest has centered, not so much in the material ‘covered as in the 
opportunity for the various member's of the group to interpose questions. 

; Plans for the future include. a talk on the psychology of ‘hypnotism 
by Mr. Westervelt, on Einstein's theory of Relativity and on Vitamins. Senior 
campers are invited to select topics for themsélves. How about some MBLIS on world 


polotics? 


. 


MUSIC 


Last week's Sunday Evening Musicale was devoted to the evolution 
and development :ef-music. -Hargld Potter explained, that, musical instruments ‘fall into 
three main categories: percussion instruments, such as the drum, wind instruments, 
the horns, and finally string instruments, such as violins and guitars. 
i ; Many ¢atpers ahd ‘leaders “joined in to. demonstrate these: various means | 
‘of producing music. Gordon Trower of Senior Section demonstrated the C Melody Sax 
and the B-flat clarinet. Cam McCaw of Junior Section showed how the bugle is blown 
and Steve Gannon gave an example of the best wind instrument he knows--the voice. 
Harold, Bill Ross and Dr. Robb showed how harmony is played by joining in on piano, 
violin, and clarinet playing "Silent Night". 

; Alan Clogg played Jean Sibeliys' immortal masterpiece, "Valse Triste" 

on the piano. The programme ended with Lloyd Coveyduc playing Deep Purplee 

All in all it proved to be one of the most interesting and inforthative 


musicales we ‘have had this year. And there are more to come? 
SENIOR WATER REGATTA 


: ' The Senior Water Regatta got off to a SEES start Thursday last. 
The first event was a war-canoe race with Lindsey Mussels captaining Pabke, Goodall, 
= reer site Gerry Wrenshall in the other canoe piloting Savoy, Hill and Besner. 


Aftor much jumping of the gun by bothcanoes, they finally Flashes out Y 
from the finish line with Mussy's team will in the lead. Just as Gerry's boat was 
putting on a spurt to pass the leaders it tipped giving its occupants an unwanted bathe , 
The second event was gunwale riding contest which was run in two heats and"Twogunwale" 

Wrenshall emerged victorious. The rest of the events were scheduled to be completed on 


Friday Aftcrnoon.e 
SENIOR © CAMP FIRES 


: Ken Westervelt has been giving some interesting talks on Hypnotism to 
Senior camp. The Seniors were very skeptical at first until Ken got hold of Alan Clogg¢ 
who was the victim who showed that hypnotism was not a fake, by putting him into a 
slumber and then making him bark like a dog asking for his suppere Ken answered many 
Laptheae concerning the subject. 

Ken, by special request, gave another talk on Wednesday night and 
again demonstrated his hypnotic powers much to the delight and interest of the fellows. 
He also explained many mysteries of hypnotism saying that not everyone can be 
hypnotized. The subject must be willing and able concentrate. It is also easier to 
work with intelligent persons for the more intelligent the person the better he can 


concentratee 
We all hope to learn more from Ken in the near future and, incidentally 


Ken is the man to see if you find any flowers, bugs, or rocks which you want identified, 
PYJAMA PARADE 


In former years, the habitual dress in Senior camp was pyjamas, but 
vhen it came to displaying them to public view in the annual pyjama parade, the Seniors 
seemed to be bashful, or maybe they were just too lazy to get out of bed to show them. 
Tiis year, however, Senior camp turned out in full force and their initiative was 
demonstrated by the fact that they took four of the prozes. The prize winners were 
Gerry Wrenshall, Keith Farquharson, Ross Deacon and Ernie Frohloff, and several Seniors 
also lent their talents to the "band". After the parade, the Seniors had a campfire and 
wiener roast, which topped off a very successful evening. 


JUNIOR SECTION ANTICS 


Z eee Editors: Gcoff Houghton 
Cam McCaw 


eaten Tt was recently stated by Mr. Smith, that the one and only thing that impresses me 
at Kanavana is it's LEADERS. They are the finest bunch of men I have ever seen, and, 
whet is more, they are absolutely positively wonderful. 


I thank you. 


ooH-—. Any person in camp who wished to find out the latest methods which are in vogue for 
the transporting of wood from one spot to another please sec Ted Roberts.’ It was 
notieced on a recent Junior Hike that in order to carry out this system one must woar 
long and strong pants. ae a 


-----low what in the world were Bob Smith's pyjamas doing, up in the flag, ‘the other 
morning. Funny how thcy sometimes walk away and hide, Naughty little pyjamas, 


-----Only Dave Savage's amazing equilibrium kept him from falling out of the chair at 
breakfast tho other morning. He says they lost the trail. Well that's ‘not a bad cxcuse 


~----Once again the dbar old days of Robinhood and the bow and the bow and arrow have 
been rovived. Junior section shows an ever inercasing number of Robinhood Hats coming 
into style; incidcontally Archery is gaining a strong foothold with the campers, put if 
those campers do not:watch out where they are wearing these hats they will have them 
shot off. Dining room, flag raising are places to be watched, so be careful boys or 

an arrow might come tearing along shot from the strong bow of David Munro and then where 


would your lovely hat be, or should we say Head. 


Sate You must watch Colin Warnor and his Agile Whip sometime, what that boy ean do with 


this yoar, up till now and probably may not be seen for the rost of “the year. It is 
roally an eye opcner or perhaps an eye closcr would bo a better way of *describing it. 
That boautiful colour, finish, style, it must have been done by an artist, do not miss 
this grcat opportunity, sco it at onco before it is too late. You might cven try to 
obtain onc like it. My, my, I have not told you what I am talking about, sce Junior 
Taylor's lovely "Eyc". aS 


—— ea Some of the campers have the very fortunate or perhaps unfortunate equipment with 
them kmown as a pillow. This object \vhen used for the purpose which it is intended can 
bring to the omer a lot of comfort, but when used wrongly, such as in a pillow fight, 
can cause a great deal of discomfort and perhaps physical injury. Common results of 
Pillow fights are severe headaches, damaged and infected cars, sore eyes, to mention 
only a fev. We all know that no two of us are alike and it is almost impossible for us 
to know cach other well cnough so that we could be careful and only hit those who would 
not be affected, It may be a lot of fun boys but you wuld not like to fecl that YOU 
had blinded or put some chap in the hospital. ee 


ooo There is a positfion open in the Junior section for 4 good man, and he must be good. 
If anyone has cvor tricd to wake Ed Power you will know just how good a man you must bo 
to fill thc position. Applicants apply to Ed. for tests. 


-----Sport news for this section this week somehow scoms to be lacking, apparently the 
rost of the camp have become tired of boing beaten by the Junior leaders consequently no 
games have boon playcd. The Campers due to the torrid heat have spent most of their 
timo in the watcr playing water Games. A Water Polo match betwoen the Juniors and the 
Seniors resulted in 2 win for the Seniors by a score of 9-5. 


eee ee 


JUVENILE..SECTION NEWS. 
Editor:- Tom Hardwick 
BASHBALL 


Tho "Toothpaste" League of the Juveniles is progressing splendidly. At 
the present, Tont 1 and 2 are heed of the Lcaguc. The baseball schedulc is expected 
to be finished in two weeks, Tho best game of the weck was that betivcen Cabin 1 and 
2 versus 6 and 7. It was a battle all the way with the first two eabins finally win- 
ning. At present, the stending is: 


: a W L 
Tent 2, 2 fe) 
Cabin 1,2, 2 as 
Tent 3, 4, 1 XE 
Onhawn6.- 7, a 2 
Cabin 5, 4, 5, fe) 2 


Gemes to be played next week: 
Tent 1, 2.vorsus tent 5, 4. 
Cabin 3, 4, 5, versus Cabin 1, 2. 


ACTIVITIES 


: During thc evenings of this week thore have been tournaments in checkers, 
tetherball and horshoes se Tho new totherball pole is the centre of much intorest. Secr- 
cely a minute passos that someone is not playing at the court. The tournaments cre 
progressing favourably end the finals are expected by Friday. : a 


INDIAN NWS 


oe winning fee thers during the weck of July ae TO. Bos 
Jack Baile # 8,3. Robt. Owons / 8,2. Sandy Valentine # 8 Raymond Vellozzi # Se 
Richard Owens # 8, 1, 2-6 Robt. Slocth # 8, 3, 7 David Baker # 2, 3, 8. Gordon Sha- 


piro # 8, 2, 1, 7. Roger Lamb # 1, 3, 8. Doug English #1, 2, 4, 4, 6, 7. Kr 


2. Deve Gillolan # 3. Alan Cockfield #1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7,°8. Alec Chor- 
; 8, 5, 7, 6 Bruce Robertson 7 3, 8. 


END OF JUVENILG NEWS 


( continued from page onc) 
roised to young ladyhood { or menhood) a rather promising youngster. 

Tro delightful menks to be obtained here have not escaped the attentiotor MiG 
rether largo clan of Rufous Humming Birds and our fricnd ‘Mr. Red Sauirrol. 

Whether the Chewink family has reside in this vicinity very long or not I do 
not know; but last Tucsday morning John Yaxley discovered Madam Chewink es she prepa- 
red for brenkfast. Only last night I observed Mr. Chewink. As usual he was dressed 
in his finory, . bleck, orange and gray. He certainly was a pretty sight to sec. 

The boys of the Juvonilo camp think that they have as their neighbor Mr. end 
Mrs. Kingbird. However, I would not be so sure of that. You sce, the Kingbird and 
the Phocbes are second cousins; both are members of the fly-catchin family. The King} 
birds apperent Aislike being confused with the Phoebes. Even the little orange crests 
which theYiear on their heads are not sufficient to prevent thom from suffering from 
the indimity of being called Phoebes. Boys, the Kingbird family is a proud one ‘anid 
I'm sure that they sould appreciate if you were © 2 little more disecret in speaking of 
them. Mr. & Mrs. Phocbe sre far more neighborly. “than the Kingbirds. They actually 
scem to peter to nest under the eaves of Human dwellings to any other poace. his 
is not true of the Kingbird. = 

Madame Goldcngrowned Kinglet was seen sporting a very chic lemon yellow hat 
that went vory well .with her soft grey summer suit. Mr. Rubythreat Humming Bird secm, 
to havegone in for aurial symnastics. | Yesterday I saw him repeatedly describing on 
are in the air as though he were ina swing. But as I could not find any evidence of 
& mane BS concluded that he was uae ay morning setting up exercises. 


Judging Zrom the way in which campers have described birds to me for idontif- 
ication, most of thom don't know how to describe birds. The following information 
is necossary for positive identification: Place where found, size, colour, and shepe 
of build, shaps of fect, length and breadth of teil and wings, colour of head, back, 
tail and breaste I+ is very seldom that all of these feetures can be observed but 
the more thet sre observed the morc success at identification can be expected. 


