Kamp 
Hanawana 


November 15, 1982 
To all campers, and their parents, 


Greetings! With your school year now well under way, I hope 
everything is going well. It has been over two months now 
since we all said good-bye to Kanawana for 1982 but as I keep 
meeting campers here and there, it seems as though everyone 
still feels very strongly about camp and the talk always 
turns to next summer. 


Like a lot of you, it was my first summer at Kanawana and, 
as I have told many people already, I have never seen such 
a group of people who wanted so much to have a good time. 
Sometimes the going got rough, yes; there will always be 
a few bad times when a group of 250 people live together 
for two or more weeks. But, on the whole you all tried to 
make Kanawana a very happy place to be in the summer. I 
know it was a great feeling for me and I have you, the 
campers of '82, to thank for it. 


Of course, there is another group of people who are vital 
to our operation and that is our staff and C.I.T.s. With- 
out this talented and energetic group, '82 could never 
have been what it was. Think of the projects and special 
programmes they accomplished with you: Klondike Day, the 
Eagle, Kanawoodstock, Indian Day, the Totem Pole, swim 
meet, M.I. Day and, of course, the Lumbermen-Voyageurs 
Games and Green Triangle. Fantastic! Do me a big favour, 
if you meet your counsellor or another staff member some- 
where - say "thanks". 


I hope you all feel the same way I do because I am already 
looking forward to next summer and an even bigger and 
better Kanawana '83. 


THE GREEN TRIANGLE 


ate 


Speaking of our staff, I thought it might be neet to 

see what Kanawana looked like in the oranges and reds 

of autumn. So 54 staff members and C.I.T.s spent 
October 2 and 3 at camp. We helped Yves Tassé bring 

in the swimming and boating docks, we paddled in canoes, 
played a little football and took lots of pictures. It 
was fantastic; so fantastic that I think we might do it 
for campers and their families next year. It just goes 
to show that Kanawana is a place for all seasons. 


Speaking of all seasons, read the last page of this 
Green Triangle carefully for a winter holiday at a 
"White Kanawana'' that you will not want to miss. 


I'd like to thank all campers and parents who have sent 
back the completed camp questionnaires. Your concerns - 
especially about the food! (I feel the same way) - will 
play a big part in our planning for '83. To those who 
have not yet sent it back; please take the few minutes 
to fill it out. I cannot do anything about your concerns 
or ideas if I do not know what they are. Thanks. 


If any of you - campers, parents or staff - have anything 
you think should be put in our Green Triangle please give 
me a call. We can use lots of ideas. 


My very best to you all. 


Non Sidmrs on 


y 


Peter G. Goddard, 
Director. 


é 


PGG/h 


IT'S A "WHITE KANAWANA" 


How do you feel about skiing to your tent? What do you think it is 
like to skate where you would normally swim? Can you imagine sleeping 
in a quinzhee hut (what the heck is that?), where you should be 
shooting arrows at a target? What about snowshoeing to Sunset? Well 
you can! 


We are planning to go to camp from the morning of MONDAY, DECEMBER 27, 
stay in the Block House and Farm House (heated and winterize or 
four days and return on THURSDAY, DECEMBER 30. Transportation will 
be by. bus from the YMCA on Drummond Street. 


Programme would include: cross-country skiing, snowshoeing, skating“ 
on the lake, an introduction to winter camping, games, campfires and, 
hopefully a day-long ski with lunch on the trail. 


Staff members attending this programme will be myself plus at least 
six others from our summer staff. 


We can only accommodate 35 campers with priority going to 1982 senior 
campers. Registration will be on a first come first served basis. The 
fee for the four days is $85.00 with a deposit of $25.00 required for 
registration (deposit refundable if not selected). 


If you would like to join us, REGISTER NOW by either bringing the 
registration form and deposit of $25.00 to the camp office or mailing 
it to: WHITE KANAWANA 

YMCA of Montreal 

1441 Drummond Street 

Montreal H3G 1W3 


Accepted campers will be notified by phone by December 3. Come and 
have a ball in the snow! 


REGISTRATION FORM 


NAME TELEPHONE NO. 
ADDRESS POSTAL CODE 


WHAT SECTION IN SUMMER 
YES NO 
I have my own cross-country skis 


I have my own snowshoes 
I have my own skates 


PARENT'S SIGNATURE 


