mre ts 


eee rN GRITS F 
SRT SssePI.TOR 
SISTANTS 
CIAL EDITOR 
SISTANTS 
ANDAL EDITOR 


BLISHER 


JULY 30th 1932-.- 


N Sek 1A SC DE 


HARVEY MARSHALL. 


JACK MILLAR. 


HERB. FURNESS; BILL BOURNE 


PRESTON ROBB. 
KEITH BOWEN; HUGH RKEY 
RGB GIBSON. 


GEO. BRUGMAN. 


I'm glad I'M back at dear old Kanawana 


With her trees so stately and so fair. 


Let me lie and rest beneth their shadows, 


And forget my troubles and my cares 


For I love her valleys and her mountains, 


Rocks and trees bring messages to m6. 


Telling me there's one place, Kanawana, 


Where my tired soul can e'er be free. 


Max Ford- 1932. 


or 


Hereit is hot from the Press. The second issue of the Green Triangle. The Editore 
jal staff wib& to thank those who have contributed articles to the paper, and we hope that 
in the future this group will be larger. We also wish to take this opportunity of 
expressing our regrets in loosing two fine members of our staff, Mr.Buckley, Junior 
Director for the month of July and Dr.Courville, and twe leaders, Alex Ross and 
Scotty Kiell. While sorry to see these friends depart we also wish to welcome 
Mr.McDermit, Dr.Colb}azer and several Leaders. In closing we/meay/ask the campers to 


make a bigger effort next week to have the next issue the largest and the best publica- 


tion of the Green Triangle. 
H.W.M. 


SENIOR ACTIVITIES 
-@-@-@-@-@-@-G-E-@-@-0-@-G-0-E-C-E-0- 


The past week has been one of tournaments, the major sports included, being 
ping-pong fencing and horshoe pitching. Shan Dunn was crowned chempion of ping-pong 
by defeating Doc. Courville in a wirlwind finish, spurred on by the eheering Saniors. 
‘This tournament was open to the camp and among the prominent contestants was the "Chief" 
himself, who was however stopped by the "Doc". 
There were 8 entrants for the fencing tournament and by the process of é@limination. 
Jack Smithman proved himself supremein the wielding of sabres. : 
The horse-shoe pitching tournament was still in progress at the time of going 
to press. 
The other principal sport activities apart from hiking,have been the usual 
games of lacrosse, baseball,waterbaseball and a medley re&y race. 
Senior Over-Night Hike 
The seniors,after practising eating grasshoppers up on the back trail,set out 
on their two duy hike,led Bili Bourne-At noon,having walked all the way over to Mille 
Ibbes,they ate theirudinner in plain sight of Lone Pine Hill.The reason for walking 
in this circle was explained when Bill left his curefully carved stick outside a 
farmhouse,in which lived a beautiful farmer's daughter.This young lady,ynot to be 
outdone,took the valued article and held it until his return,when she smilingly 
presented itf? to him. 
Evening found the seniors, about six miles, from StkJerome, cooking their supper 
in the rain, at nine RM. they abandoned: all the rules for overninght hikes and 
retreated to a barn where they tried vainly to get some sleep. About 10.30, however, 
some of them decided to hint mice for excitement. The only outcome of this was the 
entrance of three scouts, soaking wet and very much fatiqueds 
Three oclock saw a cock on the job, followed directly by an orchestra of pigs, 
dogs and cows. our stout hikers turned out at about six AeM. and by noon were entering 
Maroisvery tired and very hot. They got home for general swim which was enjoyedby 


all. 


.. 


pe Me Cee | ee a! oe 


a™e 


JUNENILE ACTIVITIES. 
- 6-6-6 ECO 6-66-66 CECE TOCEE 


JUVENILE HIKE TO MORBBHIGHTS 


Leaving camp ten A.M. Tuesday, the group took the trail to Becis were they got the 
trail to Morin Hights. The bunch had a swim at XMM Lake Echo, anc arrived in Morin 
Hights at five oclock. 

A Splendid Camp site was obtained just outside Morin Hights. The first evening was 
spent in touring the village. A rumor oB a bear supposed to°&n the vicinity caused 
the campers to have a sleepless night. Like all green-horns they rose at the eurly 
hour of four AeM. The next day was spent in Horse back riding, and a game of base-Balls 
wen they hikers defeated the Morin Hights all stars by a large margin. In the evening 
they enjoyed a moving picture show, filmed about 1900 and which broke about every five 
minutes. After a good night's rest they returned to Camp by Christieville and St:Sauveur. 
Owing to trouble caused by the Wednesday hikers the overninght bunch were refused to 
swim in St:Sauveur. The hikers arrived back in Camp in time for General Swim. 

T.Cornell. 


TOOTH PASTE LEAGUB BEGINS 
TO RUN OUT END DRAWS 
NEAR. 

At the time of going to press there are three teams left in the league to fight 
for the championship,namely Minty's,Forhan's and Pepsodant's. 

Tt has been an exciting race and as the race ends this afternoon we shall try 
to publish the results this evening. 

Pen 

JUNIOR AGTIVITISPE SG 
fedddddddted ddd dade 
Junior Hike to Camp Otoreke. 

The first Junrer Camp hike or the season left on Tuesday morning for Camp Otoreke 
the Senior Y.M.C.A. camp.Taking the short cut to Becsis and Lake Echo they arrived in 
Morin Heights in time for dinner.The walk to St.Adolphe was uneventful but tiring as 
there wes a three mile stretch of hills to be climbed.On arriving we found Camp 
Otoreke playing baseball against Camp Kinkora-As the weather turned out to be cloudy 
and rain threatened,we were given a tent to sleep in.After a swim and supper, the 
crowd left for the village,returning at nine thirty.The writer was lulled to sleep 
by a chorus from the bays,two snoring,two talking in their sleep and an occassional 
wallop from Abbie Gerringer as he fought his battles in his sleep.Wednesday was 
cloudy, with occassional rain,That morning was spent in swimming, boating and two boys 
were fortunate enough to get ea motor poat ride.The start back was made at four 
fifteen,and we made very good time +o Morin Heights,where camp was made for the night. 
The local movie house claimed most of the boys in the evening-Little sleep was had un- 
til after one o'clock,as it was cold and the ground hard.Thursday morning a few 6f 
our members went horseback riding.Leaving at eleven forty-five,the trip was made 


pack to camp.with a stop for dinner nalé way to Lake Becsis. 
§.McNaughton. 


Sports 

Stan “gar and Walt.Jeffers were the mechanics who successfully brought their 
motorcycle to the finishing line to win the motorcycle league. 

Thus while the Harley Davidsons spurted ahead of the Hendersons to come in first 
the Indians narrowly missed a terrible broadside into the fence and came home just 
ahead of the Super X.This wa s an exciting reliability tour and we are sure that 
both new and old campers in this section can look forward to other such events.in the 
weeks to come. 

_A good game of Pirates and Swiss Navy took place on thursday afternoon under the 
able direction of Eda Baylis . THE Sw 1$S was Under the 


ADDS. 


«Se 


leadership of George Bru isi 
gman went tb visit "Davy Jones Locker" j 
captained by "Poker-Faced = ae in be lee te 
— ed Jack" destroyed four boats while the Swiss Navy only sank 
The leaders and some of the offic i 
r ers of the Swiss Navy were mad 
plamk,along with "Poker-Faced Jack" who went over just fer the oni evs 


~Solo_ Efforts _Feature Thursday Night's Camp Fire- 

To replace the usual council ring program,the Senior Camp acted as hosts to 
the remainder of the camp on Thursday night. 

After the majority had settled comfortably back on the green sward and benches, 
the @hief opened the proceedings with the demonstration of fire-lighting in the newly 
constructed Senior fire place. 

Community singing was led by the Ghief and assissted by Wilf Buckley.The singing 
of “Under the Spreading Chestnut Tree" afforded some of the more absent minded camp- 
ers an opportunity to entertain the audience with some well chosen solo efforts.Dry 
weather was forecasted at least twice. 

This was followed by some splendid shadow boxing by Juvenile and Junior campers, 
+o the amusement of the spectators.The wost strenuous part of the program concluded 
with a Senior "Cock Fight" 

Then came the mail,high lighted by five letters for Jim Carnegie and other inter- 
esting parcels for some of the boys. 

The evening was closed with "Abide With Me" splendidly sung by Alan Barrie accom- 
panied on the larynx df George Brugman. : 


gaATURDAY NIGHT SHOW. 
-G-o- OO Oe wrw -@-@-@-G-8 -@SEo 

At our last Saturday Saturnalia there was featured 4 new form of entertainment 
for Kamp Kanawana,in the presentation of the premier performance by the members éf 
the Dramatic group of the melodrama in one act by Lord Dunsarry the noted Irish play- 
wright,4%A Night at an Inn",++t proved a rather interesting production and we are lobking 
forward with anticipation to their second production at the end of August.Alan Carrie 
gave a very fine rendering in his excellent soprano vo ice of "Granny's Highland 
Home,"which received from the audience the first courteous attention they have given 
to any musical offering this season.The much heralded beauty contest fizzled out in 
a complete failure in spite of the presence of such able judges as,Chef Watson, Bob 
Kneeland, Bob Gibson, Mitchell Mills and a few leaders wno had confidence in their 
charm and youthful beauty - 

ine evening was notable for the first appearance of our camp newspaper," The 
Green Triangle", readnto the audience by Back Millar's melodious baritone voice. 
The old team of Keill and Chakke gave the second selection in their scenes of 
operatic gems.The bull fight scene from Carmine.This was Scotty's last appearance 
on our stage,this year and we are sure our audiences will miss his clever comedy 
which they seem to have highly appretiated in the past.The evening closed with the sec- 
ond episode of them demon defectives, Snoop and Peep which was marred only by the 
lack of volume in our receiving set.This we hope will be remedied by the new 
proadcasting system in effect bhis week. 

YoTICcE. 
gnoop and Peep have investigated about whe dishes put through the little window 

and find little wrong with them,if the man at the little window would be more care- 
ful how he gaves us our porridge and coffee.It would be better for us if he put it 
inside the utensils,not outside.Therefore we have engaged the services of Snoop and 


Peep again to watch him more closely in the future. 
Signed A CAMPER 


A now piano-esd-Key 33 See Reg. Kelley. 


A Body Guard to protect Garl Chisnall from the girls. 


-4@ 


WE WOULD LIKE TO KNOW: 


Why D.Crossey left for Morin Hights before the rest of the Hikers? 

Why Red Forest got wet on the hike? 

Why Bowen and Cornell kicked thek hikers out of the store at Morin Hights? 
Why Doe is so interested in 6hildrents Memorial Hospital? 

Why is Doc always singing the old song "My Queen"? 

Why Frank.Clarke went around with a disapointed look on his face last Sunday? 
How much of the staff-table Graig McDarmit will take a month from now, at 3 

he takes one side just now?. 

Why Chief would not writeup his trip to Shawbridge maxk on Wednesday? 

We would like to know why Red Forest had a sore neck and lipstick on his Cheek? 
We would like to know why Lin Kigchardson borrowed a dol.ar from a Juvenile? 


Heard In Juvenile Camp: Are You A Pig? 
mew ww ween nnn ann nererrn= Ans. No I am an Ass! 


-Dorothy-Dix 's Advise 


Dear Miss Dix: 
What can I do to prevent Doug. Clarke from chasing around after the girls. 
This cause@ me quite a lot of dietress, as I do not think it sets a good example for 
the nice boys in tent four. What, 6h, what can I do. Please tell me. 
Yours respectfully Reg. Kelly. 


Dear Mr. Kelly: 
There is nothing you can do. He is just naturally a"Woman's Home Companion" 
Dob Dix. 


Dorothy Old Gal: 
- What can you do with a girl who simply wentt za get out of the truck and: 
walk even after being kissed, 
Yours 
Jack Cameron. 
Dear Jack: 
My Brother wants to know her address, he will handle this case for you. 
Dorothy Dix. 


Dear Miss Dix. 
Who is Flaherty? 
Youss Perplexelly 
Chief. Spearman. 


Dear Chief: 
Ask Mike McNaughton, Doug, Clarkes Ralph Allen; or Tommy Cornell. 
Dorothy Dix. 


Dear Miss Dix. : : 
Does a young girl who has never been kissed before enjoy her first 
exp@pience , 

Yours Frank Clarke. 


Dear Frank 
I am sorry, but I forget. 
Dorothy Dix. 


