| 
BS 
a 
. 
| 


: 


ee et ee re ee ten 


a a eee 


; 


{ oor sar 
\ Pes 


bay, © 


tiers 
bs. “nT . 
Yileo Le \ 
oe 
é 
a amen animate ial Ce Lee Sc ke ee eee en ee es meets, SRR SA ae SPN ie SS AT Se ne Ae ete Pen 
cece le rane a = eee aa eon A a HCI mn EE eS TE oe SES OS ee Sey Spe agit 2 se pple i eo ae fem pa at eae en einen 
o< 7 f, 
Kemp Kensvona Sat] ii een, oe 
ne ee peer ame Sm te nee nel wie r ogee ve pectoen tee pep trtea  wemenpi eee be: 
lt TIRE 5 RR Pn A Rima me ON HR Ate gw ao rs acta - 
anal near ‘ sexe ; Sees 
WEATHE AR. FURRCAST 2+ “Moon will rise |t treet vy Vine end f 2 bed with Basin. 
5 f ae . pest We a) 
PUPESBo  GCAMGSTES “Slo rubbes ¢ 1 Wednesday morning 
- t = a = — _ + <> = vt 
uk 7 ea are) IAL e formas } ov. HRs -s ag W. harts. 


Qne of the best sh 


dows.’ Both were game Pees 
it had EL ESS criaed 


atin 
ass SECU. 


tas S130 

Oper fea 
sole by Dave Savage, 
of Senior ceim. 


yocal quintet, Everyone 
Jeff Houghton, wae had to shout 
tiysigted on talking art flasting their 


ERLO 


abies 
Although the challe 
gradually caught up anc ticd 
the allround -pleying ability 

Now that these tra 1 
in tho near future. 


ed. 


at the Musicel 


phasoe of whe Pass, Bt oS 
tnetruments iy came 
Beaauss of tha nemer ofc 


base. «Les ee mi? 
she eeeptess ~ 


SCT RN OR OO Nn pcg em ee ce 


8s 
= 
=| 
| 
ss 
Z 
| 
: 


op the hoards cf Kanawana‘s 


Friday Night Theatre with ite chief ae itch between Billie and Donnie 
Riddle, cempers from the Juveniis end Junior sections, resoectively. The fight was 
three rouzds of terrific belting by the bir there. velng ee esac ke four knock-- 


the a pe 


Wac Honderso ot Sundors, | a guitar , 


oy Alan Clogg and Ken Jones 


ALePrs 


Tho main part of the:show consisted ct skits, of which dwo were provided 
by Juveniles and two oy Dimice - : sane nts also providing a 


the Master of Ceremonics 
49 poopie ia vhe audience who 


CT SEMANCCS « 


TUNTOR SAMDIERS LEADERS HOLD ~ Av Toney STAVE 
Again the Juniors displayed their ox opal baseball ebtlity by assisting 
tho leaders in holding the Hitchen Sierf Nins Ld G ether night. As 


anpers were called 


there were many ieaders away Trom camp on 

upon to iend a hand, with the roestl> thot i good as ever 
MeCuilogh playing his 1 position at-cecond., base whi te-, slayed third, "Stan ley- 
shortstop ant, Don Smit if tho fort at -Tirss bese. chr Read oa Bob # Foreend were 
the other oo eorpeee who (ei 


ning, the Juniors 
or the game was 


turn game is expect- 


MUSTC 
ah 9 Reject ons of cer re 
» “bhhoes os on Ciftfercnt 
ts coniribusiazge.. the otogramme will begin 
t | age 
be SBR Ssl STORE Ee 32 tasty. nigut to the tune 
ete ee LEK es chone at first 
osezs,- The ising to meet 


og emt aE NE a ma pene ae re a AE Cr meme eRe ane RR RN SS, 


It is 2 known fact that throughout the country today therc ore 
hundreds of summer camps providing for idlers end unemployed youths opportunitics or 
a season of unsurpeassablé casc. in these gardens of leafy lethargy, the enjoyments of 
neturc arc onhanced by movies, treined horses, hot water and other city comforts, : 
poeautiful landscaping, well tended trails and chlorinated swimming water. 

; Gone are the days when camps pred men accustomed to hardship and 
able to wrest food and shelter from their environment. We ere now in the period of 
tSynmer Resort’ camping. .. Kanawana has, fortunately, not yet acquired 2 movie house, 
hot water in the cabins And many other luxuries shich tend to detract from the notureat- 
noss of the surroundings. We do not mean to imply that some of these improvements “rec 
not dcgirsbic but we do urge thet Kanawana endeavour to maintain its spirit of camping 


despite the inroads which civilization has already made. We must never reach the 
situation when camping becomes too casy- ; 


There are, however, mere at camp the beginnings of a situation 
which every truc Kenowenian must neccessarily deplore. Several leaders and staff members 
have been caught working. They are traitors to an old end established tredition. 
Perhaps treitors is too strong & torm, It might be preferable to refer:to these male= 
factors as. groenhorns« Paks , ne 

BS; Thesc newcomers do not-realize that in doing work that should 
properly be done by campers, they arc “robbing: thom of a golden opportunity and | chnace 
to learn to do things by themsclves. Rae: sad 

It has been said that the leaders and staffmen get far more ou, oi 
camp than the campers. Surely this is 2 strange situation. It is the campers who pry” 
end the leaders who derive the greatest penefit. If this serious state of affairs 
continues we predict an unfortunate result. i: 
Tho leader and staffmen are executives. Their task is to shun, 
york like the plaguc. The good leader never does any more work than is absolutely ' 
necessary. He does, however, subtly creat in the group the desire to do those. things 
themsolvos, the desire to learn, the desire’ to achieve varisus satisfactions offercd 
in camp. Lr es Cis es 
: Thus interpreted, the leader's task is doubly hard. It is relative 
ly easy and far more efficient for the leadcr to clean the tent, cook the moals on wees 
hikos, build a Warf, performing-all these tasks himself. It is twice as hard to sit 
by and watch somsone clse do it badly. But this {S" the cross~the-lecdor mist bear. ie 
must allow campers to crente these things for themselves. He may plant the secds of 
an idea but ho must let the campers complete the enterprize and derive the penefits 


‘thereto attached. The results will thus be of greater value to the individuals or: 


group concerncd. 

We are hoping to notice a decided improvement in this situation 
end we shall be cxtreemly discouraged if we discover any leader or staffman robbing 
campers of these golden opportunities to learn. =e 


NATURE NOTES : 
By Ken Westervelt ee 

We have cyes with which to see and cars with which to hear. (Yot 
most of us ineke little use of. these senses. Few of us realize how interesting this 
worid we live in roully is. So let us open our eycs that we may see the beauty of our 
surroundings. The understanding and appreciation of these God-given surroundings is 
generally called nature study. 

Tho term, nature study, seems to suggest schools and all the con- 
finoment associated with that institution. Consequently 1 wish to avoid that term. 
Let's call it naturc-craft. This title is more fitting, I think, because it covers 
the application of ‘these studies as well as the studies. themselves. 

Tho observation of neture cannot be apssive, To observe the treos, 
vo must look for thom. To identify them, we must seritinize them throughly and system- 
atically. The samo can be said of flowers, birds and enimals. To appreciate them wo 


- must make full use of our senses and intcolligence. 


/ Tho neture study progremme in 4 camp must include hikes with the 
specific purpose of observing natural phenomena. Also we would include in our’ prog~ 
ranme the construction of a Nature Trail, the purpose of vhich is to make eccmpers 
familinr with certain trees, flowers and rocks which may be found within the vicinity 
of the cemp. This will necessitate transplanting and labelling. ‘ Anyone who is-really 
interested in this project may be of great assistance in fulfilling it. 

Sinee the observation is pest made carly in the morning, an ovor- 
night hike might scom very desirable. Birds seem to be more prevalent and less shy 
during the carly moruing hours. However, if it is found that someone would prefer to 
arise rather that go on @ overnight hike, that too could be arranged. Numerous short 
hikes will bo planned throughout the comping season for the observation of flowers, 
trees and rocks. 

Wo wish to build up the Museum. We already have a fine collect- 
jon of rocks and shells as a nucleus. About this we ean build 2 very worthwhile Muscum- 
of nature lore. anyone finding some intercsting inseet of plant will please report 

(continued on page 4 ) 


LOG OF JUNIOR CAMP HIKE THROUGH TH# BUSH.  - ag 
TUL SES> = OS 959% 
Written by Ernie Latter. 
Leaders: Sc. Power and Doug Stewart. 


Hikers: Doug Kinnear, Henry Giles, Jack McCammon, Don Sutherland, Jim 
Bloxam, Jordan Beverley, George Osborne, Hrnie Latter, Don York, John 
Hall, James: Scott. 


The hike to No-where was under the direction of Bd. Power and Doug. Stew- 
art. After a hard time the packing was finished. The hike consisted of eleven boys, 
and got under way at Ee 10 aom., on Tuesday,July 18th. After twenty minutes of walk- 
ing the first stop was Lake Bescies. Boys got:water todrink. After their-drink’ they 
walked up to the main  -bublaine where we chased cows and fixed Mr. Osborne's pent: Read. 
compas and looked at map and decided to take north-west trail. ‘ 


On +410 we sav many Tamarac Trees, we stopped a little way furth ar one: 
for the arrangemént of Jim Bloxams' blankets. After that stop we saw a’ small grass 
snake under a tree. On a road to Private Property we saw a red sweater, which was on 
a fence. The sweater belonged to Ralph Randlette. A farm-house: lady~ abked us if-we 
wanted water, so we filled our flasks and drank water. While walking through a hay-~ 
field we saw another snake which was bigger in size. Its thickness was one and a half 
inches, and it was about two feet long. 


We had passed many fields, and now were entering into a thick swampy’- 
forest. Ea. Powor took the lead and blazed a trail, as there was no path. Doug sie WALL 
broucht.up the raan.. attoreomins-out-or the bush we Stopped on a “sandy hill whera. 
could sce for°miles around. We then ate dinner, which consisted of beans, -bread ne 
pineapple. It was exactly 1.00 p.m. sharp. Ed power showed us how to light a fire 
without papcer, before cooking the beans. Don York, Jim Scott and John Hall made dinnor 


: Completeing a short rest period of fifteen minutes, we had a look at the 
map and compass and decided we had come four miles. The time that we left our dinner 
spot was 2.25 p.m. We walked until we reached the road. On the road at 3.05 p.m. vo 
stopped to fix John Hall's blankets. Shortly after that stop we reached the main road 
which passed the spring. near Kerr's. farm, where we got our supply of water for the night. 
As it was getting lato we then began to look for a place to camp. hone 
Stewart soon found a suitable place for camping, near. a farm-house, where water was.’ 
reachrd. Supper cormenced late, but fire-wood and stones were at our front door. 
For suppor-- ¢.B.D., pineapple and cocoa. Before the €.B.D. was cooked, Don York and 
others and caten all their bread and wanted to buy some from the-rest of us.‘ As suppor 
was now finished, and it was getting late, we began to prepare for bed. Just befora 
bed, the leaders marched us into a nearby field, where we could sce the lights of Mon- 
treal. After feet inspection, we got into bed, and started a weel-earned rest. 


During the night George Osborne was walking in his sleep trvi)¢ to find 
his bed. Many others found themselves out of their beds also. The first two up were 
Don York and Ernest Latter, who went to get water. By a stroke of luck, on the way 
pack the lady in the fram-house gave them half a watermelon. Soon a fire was startet 
and breakfast was begun. Breakfast consisted of five courses, prunes, grapefruit, bread 
or toast and jam, bacon, porridge and wetermelon. Packing up was soon over and we 
broke camp at 11.05 a.m. We followed the road back to the spring, filled our cantécns 
and vent into the. forest on an cast north-east direction. This was decided by Doug 
Stewart, wero read the compas and maps. 


Ed. Power leed the way by blazing a trail and stops wore made at 11.20 
Qem. and 11.50 a.m., to read the compas. In the forest someone sighted a hig hawk. Also 
Pete MClaughlin's knife was lost by Jim Bloxam. We again stopped for a compas reading 
at 12.55 p.m. The boys were now getting hungry, and because the bush was thinning our 
into fields, we-found a‘plece for dinner under a tree in the centre of a field. Tho 
dinner was made of Corned Beef, bread and pears. The stop for dinnor took an hour, and 
we loft at 3.15. 


We read compass and took a northern course through ficld until the scout 
camp Was reached. Aftor stopping for about ten minutes to fill our cantcens, we started 
on to Ha 


aN 
Cou On our wey we planned to have supper at the falls necr the haunted housce. 


A short swim was enjoyed, and supper was caten. Soon eftor suppor the place wes elcancd 
and vio started for camp. As we took tthe trail we had to cross the Paname. This was 
accomplished by felling a tree crossing over it. Doug Stewart tested it, and fell in 
losing his compass. Everybody vas wet up to the knees , and it wes very muddy. 


At Farewell Rock there was a campfire and we got a lift home in boats. 
Aftor a hot shower vie all retired to bed. 


HANDICRAFT 


Most fellows think handiersft is a chance to have a good time or to 
make something useful. ‘So it ise But it is more than that. Handicraft is a good way 
to develop desirable traits of character just as swimming or canoeing develop the mus- 
clos. In making a purse, belt or any other handicraft article there are lots of chances 
to lose your temper, growl over having to weit for tools, do careless work and so on. 
How you act under these circumstances determines what sort of a character you are build - 
ing up within yourself, . Sometimes it is good and sometimes it is not. The handicraft 
teacher can show you how to use 4 coping sew Oy hammer, a copper bowl but he cannot 
teach you how to be even tempered, courteous, thorough and other traits which are making 
you the sort of person you will be when you have -grovm up- You have to learn those 
things yourself. Whether you veolize it or not, you are learning good or bad habits 
everytime you come to the Graftshop. Think it out for yourself... what kind of q chears~ 
eter you are building’ 


vee ney, 


RF COMERS 


Kenawane is priveleged to welcome two new personalities who arrived : 
Friday to take up positions on the Staff. Ken Westervelt and Lindsay Mussels made their 
pespectivebews—tocamp society on Friday. Ken will take cherge of the nature crafts. 
He holds a B.A. from Colgate University sd Nas swudiedcxtensively Geology, Forestry 
and Botanye He has had camping expericnce at Camp Kiemisha in northern Pennsylivanre™ 
and this season teught nature lore at Camp Kersey before coming here. 

; Lindsay hails from Westmount, attending Westmount High School, end efter 
studying in several Departments at McGill, including : commerce end Science, finally 
entered Dentistry where he completed threo years. 


JUNIOR ANTICS 

Seen around Junior Camperecoeerreree 
..eBob Smith racing out of the Rity and tripping over a straw, finishing up in the decd- 
dog style. 
»-eeMartin Walsh building a peautiful grass terrace on the cempus and getting more eerth 
on himself than on the ground. 
.eelext time Ed. Power is on boating petrol, notice the Pop Eye attitude. 
.eeJunior Smith is Junior Camp's Man of Books. We don't specify what he reads. 
wsePierre Savoy through his noisy bugle has endeared ( or is it endd@zered) himself to 
the hearts of Junior Campers. 
»- George Oshorne has shown on & recent hike that he can hike equally well either 
aslwp or aweke. 
.eeWWho said Mitch Mills is our best diver. Martin Walsh did a phenomenal triple 
sommersault but it happened to be down the steps:of Tent 11. 


NATURE NOTES (continued ) 
to me with their discoveries so that it can be identified and 
labelled end placed in the collection. . If you should discover the presence of some 
bird the name of shich you do not mow, please note carefully the.colour and shape and 
its peculiarities and report it to me. 
Anyone reporting any information will be given ercdit for it end interest= 
ing informetion will be reported each week in the Green Triangle. 


