ee EU CUD” 


Well here it is again fellows,"The Green Triangle" Here 
is hoping that again it meets with your ap»yroval. The staff has 
been somewhat pneeiarsales giana this because of the leaders on leave, but 
neverthelesswe are not going to disappoint youe The staff wishes 
to welcome the boys coming into camp this week and Bert Hipworth 
anew leader. ‘We also wish to express our sincere regret at seeing 
so many boys and leaders depart, but hope to meet with them again 
in the city at the Annual Camp Keunion. Unce more let us remind fhe 
campers both old and new, that this is your paper and it is up to 
you fellows to hand in the articles for publication, so let's get 
busy fellows and make next week's paver the best yet. 


Fe Welle 


Sunday morning was one of the finest and most beautiful 
we have had this year. In view of it being such a fine morning, 
the chane~? service was held in the open chapel on the lake trail. 

The speaker for the day was eg. Kelley who left with us 
a farewell message which seems to me worth repeating. 

"Watch, stand firm in faith, play the man and be strong". 
Reg. illustrated his talk with various references to ssorts, thus 
making it more interesting for the boys. 

Previous to the talk by lieg., iirs ills favoured us with 
a solo " Lord for tomorrow and it's needs I do uot vray", which was 
greatly aspreciated. 

Bill Bourne assisted in the pulpit, giving the prayers. 
The two Hymis sung where; "What a Freind We Have In Jesus", and the 
new Hymn written by Doug. Ularke. ‘The Benediction was given by 
the Chief. 


"Marois Day" 


Tuesday downed with all appearances of a fine day, which 
which continued the vhole morning. During tne afternoon a rew clouds 
dotted the sky, wafted along by a slignt breeze. This weather held 
all day. 

Everything had previously been arranged by the leacers 
with the aid of numerous youthful assistants. 

Harly in the afternoon a regatta was run of for tne Juveniles 
and the Juniors, with the following results: 

Junior rowing with COX. 
Juvenile " " od 
Juvenile Kowing 

Junior towing. 

With the arrival of our fair visitors about bhree thirty 

the second part of the regatta with many fair particivants. 

The results were as follows: 

Double canoeing ilixed. 
Double canoeing Ladies. 
Gunwale race lien. 

Crab Kace Dedies. 

Hurry Scurry Mixed. 

After the regatta a general swim was then enjoyed by all, 
with Carnell and Carnegie supbying the trills and laughs. Imme- 
diately following this supper was served, made more enjoyable for the 
boys by having the vipitors sit with them and then assist in doing 
the dishes after the meal. 


aR= 


After supper, a boating period was eld for the visitors, 
while the campers, (with the exception of the leaders) participated 
in a treasure hunt and a ball game. The feature of the treasure hunt 
being the increased priges. 

At dusk a camofire for the whole camp was held on the Ju- 
nior Yamous, at which we had numerous features, the main event ware 
the solo effortsof Eddy Dewitt, Preston Robb, and those comoélled 
to sing because of their inabillity to keep quiet on the proper 
time. A few Juveniles and Juniors demonstrated for the benifit of 
out fair visitors, a few of our:.councilring challenges. The finishing 
touch was added by a few Juveniles putting a short snazpy skit. 

This Was supposed » oon the — i s activities for the 
campers, KXHEXx REA EXE#S REZHARXE but we found them 
later about — late se in hooves of auttior some more dirt for the & 
ercen Triangle. 

A dance was then begun in the beautifgplly transformed lodge, 
with the fellows and their Gracefyll partners swinging to the tune 
of the tinkering from the nimble fingers of Alf Stanway. ‘The feature 
of the dance was the tag dmame which was heartily enjoyed by all. 
Refreshments were served later by our renowned assistant chef Herb. 
Furness. ‘this was followed with a closing dance after which our fair 
visitors were escorted home by our bold handsome leaders and staff. 


Notice to the Vamvers and Staff! 


On behalf of the leaderw and members of Junior staff taking 
— in the unfortunate hajpenings last lionday, I wish to take tnis 
opoortunity of apologizing to the" Chief" and members of the staff 
for the @isturbance that we caused. We are thankfull that the chief 
has brought to our notice the danzers of this"putting people down 
the chute" before any serious accident had happened, and we sincerely 
hope that in the future both campers and leaders will remember this 
before acting to hastly. 


Heiilarshall. 
THURSDAY NIGHT 


Instead of the usual council ring, last Thursday night pro- 


vided the camsers with an important show which showed tha there is 
much talent available in camp on short notice- As organizer in Chief 
and Master of seromonges delux Graig licDdarmid gave us a fats well 
balenced programme for an hour and a halfe. It is hard to Say which 
was the best act, infact they were all well received.by the critical 
audiance. Amos and andy put on their famous wrestling bout with 
the usually homopallic treatment for andy's toes. The team from Loews 
Dewitt ,werrit and Wright showed us how they tumble in big time Vau- 
deville. Our local moving picture machine the Shadograph showed us 
somewell known scenes about camp. 

Uther items included the substitute doctor, tos shooting 
of Dan MeGrew, ete. The evening closed with a surprise supper of 
hot coffee and cake, which was greatly appreciated by the campers 
after the unusual wet weather all dayw O.K. Wally Kembali- 

The mail was fairly well distributed. 


HeBeD. 


-3- 


HIKE TO MORIN 


After determing and getting the course from the Lookout; 
ten valient braves wandered their way past the ball field. ut on the 
back trail they went in to the land where the sun probably sets and the 
daughters stand waiting. . The first tom be seen was Joe Pie the second 
Brown gyed Susan bothe weeds of the Tameracouta trail. The weather bec6é 
ming cloudy ind cold a foret of furs were tried for warmth tembting 
rubarb was then succesfully passed but not so the round fruit, which 
included choke cherries, noir, apples, vert, and rasberries and rouge 
huckelbarries. 

Some of the braves having more pep than others, an& advance 
and rear guard was formed tdéil the sweet voices of Echo Lake were heard 
on the wind. 

Then a swim was solicited and enjoyed from a daughter that - 
atood in the doorway. Dinner followed. An inspection of the sawmill and 
serouudings was made, were a golden crowend Kinslit anda a sneek were watch 
with interest. The return was commenced with difficulty at three fifteen, 
for two nimbs of echo lakeserved up fifths in Adam's Ale; to the sorrow 
of one brave who stayed behind to ride the dirty trails. Thus rushed the 
remaining nine shot up wat the short and down the long cuts, through the 
brush by cooling stream, o'sr rocks and trees to mountain tops, viewing 
the checkered field below in vain Sights sights of camp. 

Then lurking here and there the nine were overcome by the 
still forest odours.(O0h yeah) tillnthe pastures were reached again. 

lling wearily down an upteen foot cliff only to climb 
it again;the invisible trail ran,no# walked,no pardon me,crawled up 
another hill past unseen rosy apples and unmilkable cows to the form 
over the hitl whore-, ..e wa. only a farmers daushter,but the water was 
cool just the same). 

Clouds of heaven descended,obscuring the way,until with 
a whoop and thankful song Lake Kanawana received tne nine brave warriors 
into herself agdan. Sut the tenth received no seat around she cooking 
fire. 

Stan UCorden. 


HIKE T0 St:SAUVEUR 


The hike strated out rather late as we were held up by Jack 
Miller trying to get ilr. NcDiarmid's hiking boots laced up. Then the leades 
walked slowly in oréer to,let fom Carnell and his Juveniles catch up, but 
most of the party arrived at the station about an half an hour before the 
leaderse 

While oassiug the little Grey house, it was a great hatdship 
for Jack Miller to keep on going, as several feminine voices called out 
to him in sweet tones and he had to glance back several tines. 

When we arrived at the ffot of the Mountain Yraham Pelley 
took the lead as he knew the trail and we reached the summit after a 
hard climb. We our dinner at the top of a huge cliff from which we could 
see for miles around. We had a lot of funn rolling rocks down the cliff 
and hearing them clash on the rocks below. 

On the returm down the mountain we were delayed by 
Jack Miller who tried his skill as a mountain climber. On the road again 
we met Doug. Pinkneg and Mark Charlton who had gone to Piedmont. 

Willy McNeill caught a snake but let it go outside of camp. 
We arrived in camp a long way ahead of the leaders to enjoy a short swim 
and a hearty supper. . 
Geoe Robb & W.iMcNeill-. 


Last Saturday night the show commencing with the usual vi- 
girous sing-song moved swiftly through the evening ina ite of s me break 
down in our curtains. 

Dr.Colglazer set the baol roling by an interesting chat 
on origen of anatomical terms and on popular fallacies. 

Our Camp Newspaper the Green Triangle presented an other 
sucessful issueek It was followed by a little skit by the members of the 
staff of the senior section which a wall of a lunatic asylum was given 
two of three coats of paint. John Carswell and Berédlburgcss the youngest 
members of the rencing wlass gave keenly contested display of work with. 
their foils which demonstrated the admirable progress they are making 
in their class this season. 

Our amiable master of Ceremonies intruduced his new partner 
who carried on the remainder of the p#ogram, a-though he had to be relue 
tantly dragged on by a rope. 

The most hilarious soot on the evening was the Agile ballan- 
cing on the tight rope, by the world famous Reg. Kelley. 

Dave Morton, Buddy Gilbert, John Vasrwell brought to ts 
the Cour6é of the King of Spaig, in a skit by Max Ford. 

Bill Trueman gave us a little Japanese song about a train 
called Shu- Shu- Shu-¢? 

Another in a series of grant operas and an other episode 
in the adventures of the demon defectives Snoop and Peep completed the 
programme. 

K.C.Bowen 


Senior Sports. 


During the fasta week the Senior camp the largest for 
many years, has been particularly actively engaged in sports water and 
land. Baseball and Lacross and blow football should interest the group 
with Mondays and Tuesday regatta. 

On Monday we dicided to steal a march on the rest of the 
camp by a dress rehersal of the slarois-day Regatta. In three of the events 
heats were to iné@ude all the budding 1936 Olympics prospectse A strong 
wind . .,ed to make the crabb race seems like a turtle race. There was 
more tipoing in it than in a Swiss Navy aud Pirates contest. Other e¥ents 
invluded single and double tanoe, rob boats and gunnel racese The re- 
gatta closed abruptly when the éntrance in the tilting contest took at 
too strenuously and brook the poles over each others Read. When the 
gmook had cleared tent two was a~head with tent one close behind and tent 
5,6, and 4 following in the order named. <As..seen by Tuesday's successes 
the Seniors eertainly profitted by the afternoon's funn. 


HeBeDe 


Junior Sports 


A good game of Indian and Dispatchers was held on Londay 
G.Pelley in charge one fellow, Guy Boven, got his dispatch through witnout 
being scalped by the Indians. The same afternoon a game of lacross was 
played on the back ball field. 

On Thursday a game of Pirates and Swiss Navy had to be canc- 
elled due to the rather wet weather and a minuature stunt programme was 
followed by a game of follow the lescer, the Juniors following Jack Miller 
around the lower Pavillion, of the high and low Giving boards and down 
the shutee 


safe 


On Friday an athzletic meet was held on the back ball field 
under the lesdership of G.Pelley, H-eRichardson and LeWilson. The main 
features were a dash, standing bro.djump and a running broad jump. The 
marathon was held from the Kamp Kanawana sigg to the Kita. 


Laird Wilson. 
Juvenile sports. 


Aclose compatibhon in Juvenile Camp last week when the Bull- 
dogs and beavers struggled through a series of group Lacross and baseball 
games, with the Buldogs defeating the beavers by two pionts. Une game 
game from the end the pionts were tied, then in smart spirited Lacross 
games the Bu;dogs deafeated the beavers 8 -6-. At the same time winning 
the game and series. Our Marathon swimmer John Carswell was Captain of 
the Bulldogs. 


PUBLISHER'S NOTE 


WHEN HANDING IN MATERIAL FOR THE PAPER PLEASE WRITE 
CLEARLY AND ONLY ON ONE SIDE UF THE PAPERB. 


— 


We would Like to Know: 

Who George Brugman went to see on Thursday night. She must 
be very nice if he walks three miles on a wet night. He also took Keith Have 
Bowen to help him, or to protect the Lady, Whei8h? Use ,our imagination. 


Who are the young girls who picked up Wally Kambal in St: 
Sauvemm and brought him back in a Ford? They also askeu for Doce 


Why Lyn Richardson is going to Mrois tonighte 


Why the leadérs made the Juveniles stay away from the Lodge. 


DORORHY DIX 


Dear Dorothy: 

I have a girl frien who is very interested in Natural History. 
She is very curious about Birds ahd flowers.and is always asking me 
questions about them which LI can't answer. Would you please help me. 
Forinstance way do geese fly Worth in the soringtime* 


Yours George brugman. 


Dear Georgy 
The seese flv North hecance it is too far to walk. Dod Dig 


"all 


7a => 
Dear Dorothy Diz. 


Going around with girls may be alright but I believe that 
a boy's best girle is his mother. All that I am t owe to my Mother. 
Yours Repectfully Sfan Gordon. 


Dear Mr. Gordon: 


That is alright, send her 30% and square the account. 
Dod Dix. 


Dear Miss Dix I don't know what the modern girl is coming toe My daughter 
used to be so nice and innocent but she is changing I am afraid. I still 
cant understand why she did not call me the night when one of the Kanawana 
boys tried to kiss her. 

Yours, A Marois Mother. 


Dear M,rois Mother: 
Perhaps she did not know that you wanted to be kissed 
tOO. 
Yours Dorothy Dix. 


Dear Miss Dix: 
The Kanawana counselors are always hanging around at home 
with my daughter late at night don't they know how to say goodnight. 
Yours, 
Angry M“rois Father. 


Dear Angry Mgrois Father: 
I'll say they doe 
Yours Dorothy dix. 


Dear Miss Dix: 
What do you think of anyone who kissed a géPl against her 
will. 
Yours, 
Marois Daughter. 


Dear Marois Daughter: 


He must be either pretty mean or pretty good 
Dorothy Dixe 


