Vol. 1¥., No.2. June 30, 1935. 


THE GREEN TRIANGLE 


In this, the second edition of the Green Triangle for 1935, 
we welcome to camp all those campers and leaders who will arrive to-day 
and to-morrow. Kanawana has now entered into some semblance of organized 
routine, and surely we shall have fine weather after fourteen rainy days 
out of the last fifteen. So here’s wishing our new arrivals just the 
holiday they have been awaiting. 

-000= 


During the past week Kanawana has entered into its old round 
of one good time after another. Here are some of the results: 
—_ In baseball, Junior Camp has taken all the honours. They 
handed Senior Camp a neat trinming ~ 24-3, although they found it more 
difficult to deafeat the Staff 14-9. However, wait till they play the 
Juveniles = they'll get theirs’! 


Then recently some of the boys crossed the lake and put the 
nine-holed golf course into shape. So now Chief doesn't have to travel 
to Shawbridge at the frequent intervals he wants a game. The result is, he 
has become expert and established a new course record of 53. In fact, he and 
John Kidd have experienced some rather remarkable luck in defeating all 
comers to date. 


But in the swim, the Juvemiles take the most honours. Several 
have graduated from the "sinker" class under the direction of Ernie Taylor, 
and a large number of others have moved up a step. The Juveniles held a regatta, 
too,Keith Farquarson led the field with twelve points, Teddy Pope and 
Bruce Johnson ran close seconds with ten each. 


On Thursday evening a fancy dress carnival was held, at which the 
following boys took prizes: Jimmy Hamilton as a savage tribesman, Burgess and 
Drossey as a rickshaw team, Bruce Johnson as a hula-hula dancer, Dickke Ott 
as a bandit, Junior Taylor as a Chinaman. 


Another interesting program is planned for next week, and 
with so many additional boys in camp it should be a great success. 


=000- 
We take great pleasure in presenting the editorial board for 
the Green Triangle as follows: 


Editor ~ George Flower. 
Representative Senior Camp ~ Art Jeffries. 
- Junior " - Jimmie Hamilton, Gordie Appleton. 
4 Juvenile * - ‘Hugh Ray. 
Kanawana Thru’ a Keyhole ~ The Snoope 
Advice to the love lorn ~ Dorthie Dix. 


Reporters = Everybody in Camp. 


Advice to the Lovelorn 
by Dorothy Dix. 


Dear Miss Dix, 
I am planning on taking a trip on one of these 
new stableized steamshbps = will it cost me any more? 
Sincerely yours, 
Dr. Weamer, reac. 
N 
Dear Mr. Weager, 
It may cost you more, but it won't be expenses you 
have to keep down on a sea trip. 


Dear Miss Dix, 
Is the modern girl any more quarrelsome than those 
of other ywars? : 
Ken-Glerke. rit" An 


My Dear Ken, 
I don't think so ~ the modern girl is always 
ready to make upe 


Dear Miss Dix, 

The tents in the Camp where I am staying are very 
draughty. I have worked day and night puting patches on it, but whereever 
I sit my hair is blown all over my head. What shall I do? 


GordiemAppletom. 


Dear Gordie, 
Why not try getting your hair cut? 
Dorothy Dix, 


-c0o= 


The True Story of the Mighty Clouting Battke - 
The Chief & John Kidd vs.Burgess & Crossey. 


Thewpe are many tales floating about as to what was the 
real cause of the unexpected defeat of the mighty golfers, Burgess & Crossey, 
by a very tired Chief and an incapacitated business manager. Most of these 
tales, like all rumours, are not founded on fact, and have very little truth 
therein. 

It was left to your perspiring reporter to discover the 
truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help me. 

Being a bit perplexed by the conflidting rumours, ye reporter 
stole quietly up on the Chief's cottage steps and sat himself down to think 
things over in the serene atmosphere that envelops the cottage. 

Suddenly his reverie was broken by the sound ‘of a voice. It 
wascthe Chief's..... he was having an afternoon nap....and was talking in 
his sleep. 
tie, eh... prett¥Nintk bnlébathTasthhotbhieRevesBasyling,."Ninth hole and we're 


tie,eh?"the chief was saying, "Pretty luck on that last hole there, Basil... 
if that stone hadn't been there I'd have sunk it on the 27th stroke 
instead of the 34th, and we'd have beaten you....well,go ahead,Derrick,...see 
if you can find that last hole there in the dark...see it?....it's just 
over that stone pile....yes, just beneatg the North Star....that'’s right...aw, 
not bade.ese.in there by the old barn,eh...-ewell watch this..e.Whee@eseeit'’s 
going. «so-egoing.e.e-straight te the hole..sit'seswhoa...ethe barnt... the Barn! 
It's knocked the barn downessesboOy, what & Shotececee” » eSNOTES eo eSNOLOSc cee 
Ans so, fellows, the secret is out. All were tie on the ninth 
tee. Crossey drove off a beautiful drife that landed against the barn, just 
beyond the green. Then the Chief drove out a smashing drive into the dusk. 
There was a hush, then a crack, the ball smashing against the barn,xjmmk then 
the barn started to totter, and finally crumbled, falling against Crossey's 
ball, thus making it impossible for him to play it out in few enough strokes 
to wih. 
Crossey says that he and Buggess will win the next time, as the 
Chief won't be able to pull a fast one like that again. 


-000~ 
Kanawana Thru' a Keyhole, by Snoop. 


Well, well, weil, shades of the city again ~ Bill Paul is wondering why the 
girls don't write to him, and Huey Ray reteives letters simply covered with 
crosses and circles. 

After reading last week's Green Triangle, Huey Ray warzs all converned not to 
be surprised if there occur sundry murders among the editorial board. 

In fact, this paper seems to be full of hooey, I mean Huey. 

The Chief isn't a bad fellow, but why does he insist on talking about people 
behind their backs? this week it was Rom.Gibson. 

Chief is nothing if not ingenious - he's discovered a novel waynof waking the 
camp - he just gets up early and slides down the chute - the splash he makes 
turns the trick. 

In an exclusive interview to the Green Triangle and Montreal Gazette Phil 
Brodeur stated definately that he has never been kissed, in fact, he does all 
the kissing himself. 

We would still like to know who wirdtes to "Snookey" Wright? 

After ten years in camp, Ken Clarke still can't find the trails on dark nights. 
Llorne Hamilton has finally condescended to but a cake of SOaDe 

Boy, oh boy, I wonder if Erhie Taylor wears those shorts of his in the city? 
Heard in the Jugenile camp;"When I grom up I'm not going to get married, it's 
more fun just to stay in love.* 

Ron Gibson certainly makes a swell dog's Nursemaid when in Marois. 

Say, has this Junior Smith some chicken appea}? They all follow him. 

Does Phil Brodeur still think Marios Girls are swell? 

Why does Eric Wright like to know his day off a long way ahead of time? 


-000- 


