a. Pe —_ ? 


lg 


~ 


Vole4, Now. July 27, 1935. 
THE GREEN TRIANGLE. 


Once again we present another issue of the Green Triangle, 
Kanawana's own newspaper, for your approvals We would like to take this 
opportunity of welcoming all our new campers to what will mkkk be their home 
for a week at least and of telling them that any contribution of any shape 
or form will be welcomed by the editorial dep't situated in Tent 4 Juvenile. 
Remember, we publish everything’ And you old campers = don't forget to keep our 
coffers filled with golden material either suitable or unsuitable; whether 
your contributions be published or not, they serve a worthy purpose, either 
in delighting the campers or else in lighting the kitchen fires of a dark wet 
mornings 


-000- 


Yesterday Ernie Taylor saig@ "Goa Chin Quoi Lock" for the last 
time in Kanawana this year, kissed all his Junior Leaders and Campers a sweet 
and touching good-bye, and hied himself off to wild and wooly Montreal. And 
right away everyone felt badlyto lose such a good friend and leader; but cheer 
up, boys, Wilf Buckley has arrived with bag and baggage, so Juniors get ready 
for a bang-up time. And just a not in passing - Wilf has pilfered Mrnie's 
shorts ~ anyway, they look exactly the same. Pérhaps they belong to the 
Metropolitan board, or Something? Much like that bathing suit Chief wears, 


-000- 


This week there took place the voting and presenting of the shields ~ 
for the best campers in each section during the month of July. A new system of 
arriving at a descision as to who deserved the awards was adopted this year, 
Formerly, campers were chosen by their leaders and sectional director alone; but 
this year every camper in every section had a chance to vote for the boy whom 
he thought to be the best all round camper. Then the ten or twelve boys who / 
received the most votes the leaders and staff to-gether chose the boys to receiv » 
the shields, Thus this yearthe shield means more than ever before = the tay 
it carries with it the double approval of campers and staff alike. Hers are the 5 
names of the chosen ones ~ Senior Section « Bob Bennet. 


Junior Section + John Kennedy, Bryce Chatam 
Juvenile Section < Junior Taylor. 


Pinay ayy 


Pd one: yak 


-000~ 


Iast Sunday we again held a very beautiful chapel service in the even 
more beautiful Chapel - with MreSpearman delivering the address. Our 
friends from Becis were present with us Completely filling the chapel. During 
the — = the service Mr. Harold Mills of Montreal sang, and several pictures 
were en y Mr. Fowle. They are now on disp in the dining hall - e 
should see them. ay deus 
Tomorrow morning Mr. Hall, an ex-member of the Kqmewana board and at 
present father of a @uvenile camper, will take the Chapel service 


-o00- 


CIRCUS. 


Friday afternoon the Junipr Campus was reverberant with cries of 
thisway to see the fattest man ever" and "Please don't feed the monkeys" and all 
such shouts as usually accompany a reputable circus.. Yes, Kanawana was staging its 
annual circus, and it was better than ever before. 


Literally hundreds of booths, with everything from games of skill to 
Trying to mke Ba Chase laugh included in the list. One enterprising tent 
bulit a miniature golf course, another a ferris wheel, another a shooting 
gallerys But of course the best liked booths of all were the Ice Cream stand and the 


Hamburger Shope 


All in all some 250 oranges were distributed by a sweating business 
manager as prises, of which some 110 went to Howie Langoille either bynhook 
or by crook, and nearly Forty dollars was collected from the various booths, 
receipts ranging all the way from 17¢ to over $8. 


Suggestions fax as t@ how to spent the money raised at the best circus 
in Kanawena's history will be @ladly received by the Chief. 


~o0o0- 


Senior Canoe Tripe 


On Tuesday aifternoon the Seniors - seven of them and two, leaders « 
left camp by truckfor Montford » to paddle from there to Sixteen Island Lake. 
However they were back again within ten minutes « they had forgotten half their 
supplies. Such Hikerst And then they spent the first nicht Sleeping on 
the soft lap of a rock pile’ such Campers again And then to erown i all 
they didn't evem try to make 16 Island « they contehte themselver with 
remaining at Newaygo. Such Canoeists$ But onyway, They all had a good time, 


or Pa'ker, * A good time was lad by all" which after all, is the priwe object of 
any such trips : 


-000= 


They Juniors went hiking, too +a 5 day outing to 14 Islend Lake, 
oOo? course they were wild, but not nearly as wild as they seniors - they just 
haven't the technique which their older brothers hayes acquired 
many long years of practice. 


“00o~ 


We Jave received a telegram from Bite the Flea 
that h 
by a conference of &ll the fleas of Eastern Canada ‘ohio Kets ee dann Nn nar se 
parensge the mogquito plague at summer camps, and undoubtedly that has ' 
eatined him. Put he has promised t») be here for next week, and when a flea 
promises the bargain is s aled i 


Dorothy Dix' Advoce to the Lovelorn 


Dear Miss Dix, 
My girl won't go out w th me because I cat moat. 
She is a vegetari an and says that meat is unhealthy. I Imow she is wrong, 
because all my ancestors ato meat. 
John Kidde 
Dear John, 
Well, all your ancestors are dead, aren't they? 


WO ee ee 


Dear Miss Dix, 
I have been simply fascinated by the cold-blooded beauty of 

one of the Knawana leaders. I think his name is Les Bourbas, But why has he 

such a sad look on his face? 

A Beecsis Girl 

. t 

Dear Becsis Girl, 


Probably he is sad because it is his face. 


Pe ER eo tome 


Dear Miss Dix, 

What can I do to prevent Hugh Ray from chasing around after the 
girls? It causes quite a lot of distress, es it doeia't set a good example for 
the boys in tent 9. Plwase tell me what 1 can doe 

Wilf Buckley. 


Dear Wilf, . 
You can do nothings He is just a natural "Women's Home Companion 


ee 


Dorothy old Gal, 
What can you do with ea girl who simply won't get out of the 
truc} and walk even after being kissed, 
Jack Cameron. 


Dear Jack, 
Chief wants to know her address; he will handle the case for you. 


Annual Shawbridge Invitation Games. 


On Wednesday last a good part of Kanawana migrated to Shawbrodge 
for th annual baseball game, tarck mat, and swim against the Boys’ Farm. 
The day was most successfhl in more waye than one = spectacular baseball 
accounted for an 18 ~ 17 win, bringing the cup to Kanawana efter a five years’ 
absence, Stew Korrison and his swim team burned up the lake for another victory; 
and although Kanawana jost the track mest by three points, nevertheless the 
delicious lemonade and matermelon srved to all and sundry more than compensated 
us for the losse We're all looking foreward to next year’s games with the farm. 


-000= 


We have a very pleasant announcement to make ~ this afternoon 
Junior Taylor swam the length of the leke. As far as we know, this is the first 
time a Juvenile has accomplished such a feat. 


~000~ 


Ghronicles of Bite, the Flea. 


Hello fellow Kanawan.ians ~ here I am back again at Dear old Kanawana, 
And, boy, am I glad to be theres It's heen a long cold winter, it has. 
Just in case there re some here (and I see many new fames) who didn't 


make my aquaintance last summer, let me introduce myself. ladies, gentlemen, 


fellows, I am Bite the fleaeeee. Kanawana’s own fleaseesseel was born here in camp 
just about a year ago in a little mustache loaned to my parents by hart Devenny, 
bless his whiskerse..s. 

We had a geeat camp last yeareese byo, oh boy, I remember circus day 
in particular. That was the dey I met Chewee.s. she was wandering aboutin that 
big black forest the Business manager carries about on his chestee. and when dhe & 
looked at me with those big eyes of hers ani said "Please, mister, will yop lead 
me out of this labyrinth?" I just broke down and cried. 

She is Mrs. Chew now. She couldn't get away this weekendese. had to 
stay home and mind little Chewey. My he's becoming a big boy ~ you ought to see 
himeseeshetLl be almost old enough for camp next year ~ probably go in the 
Juvenile ione 

Yes, we had a great camp last year and I was sorry to leave. My wife 
ani I had decided to spend our honeymoon her at Kanawana, until we gverheard the 
Business Manager takling to the Chef about taking a trip out west. We had heard 
the business manager speak a lot about Vancouveres... he called it heaveness.and 
80, whb, we just decided to spend our honeyméon in heavenesess and went along with 
the Bus9neess Manager. I wish I had more time to tell you of our experiences, but — 
your new editor is a business man and wants things short and sweet. 

During the winter we decided to change our abodef:om the dark 
forst of the business manager, and took up residence with Chief Spearman. There 
Wevspent a very enjoyable winter. But when spring came along I got restless, and 
wanted to get back to the old hunting grounds here at Kanawana. But fellows, 
when a flea goes and gets married, he just can&t do as he pleases. Mrs. Chew wouldn't 
let me go so I have stayed around the hot anf sweltering City up till now eHowever, 
when I heard Mr. Spearman takking about coming up here yhis weekend, I finally 
prevailed upon her to let me come tooe 

Camp looks very webl, an@ so does ever >-*- *~+ my old friend the 


gRine2—-cae Manocan Ta Anas” 


