~~~ Cenadas Yes indeedee, the boys were not 


THE KANAWANA GREEN TRIANGLE ,JUNE 27. 


JUNIOR SECTION 


The JUNIOR SECTION is still giving 
the rest of the camp the birdie. Yes sir 
4.30 every morning our mascot Spud can be 


heard answering to his master's call. Thats 


something to crow about isn't it? 


The Junior Section's popularity was 
shown on Tuesday evening when both other 
sections invited them to an evening of 
entertainment. The Senior invitation was 
diplomatically accepted and a very pleas- 
ant evening was spent at games. The Sen- 
iors cleaned up on their eager opponents 
but Juniors are hard at work practising 
and will bet anyone that they won't be 
beaten in October. 


Hike day was a greet sucecss in 
Junior sectien although dampencd by driz- 
mal weather. Tent One went to Marois where 
the leader and senior fricnd (Where's Joc? 
were waylaid by a beautiful maiden. The 
boys made themselves at home and enjoyed 
it very much until they found the girl's 
age was 13. Oh well, it was first time 
out so perhaps they are working up. Tsk. 
tsk. boys; what will Junior League say? 

Tent Two went to Tamaracouta and 


believe it or not the Haunted House treat- 


ed them better than the Boy Scouts of 


received at Tamaracouta but were joincd 
by the Juveniles in the Haunted House 
and a good time was had by all. 


Who is the Leader who wants to know 
who is on top in the Junior League. We 
don't Know but the Juniors will be on 
top of the Kenawana League. 


Senior Section, 


Don end Ernie were leaning on 
the veranda rail of the Lookout at Senior 
Camp. A sudden shout, a couple of gasps, 
and there was Don Yancaking down to the 
rocks below while Ernio swung out on the 
broken rail and then jumped into space. 
Some of the Seniors haventt stopped laugh- 
ing yet, 


PAY DIRT. 


Sweet thirteen and never been 
missed: makes a nicc cake too. How 
about it Joe? 

How did Roby like Junior 
League; or how did Junior League 


like Roby? We wonder! 
Who was the Junior Leader that 


) 


was ceught fecding Spud the eror X=LaAxX, 
or was it Toddy? 

Tuesday -- Seniors burst into 
intense activity on the campus while 
Roby and Ernie directed Operations from 
armchairs on the Lookout veranda, 

Tonight the Senior Section invit- 
es the whole camp to the Lookout for fun, 
games and stuff. We hear the Program is 
going to be terrific, featuring Lady God- 
iva the Senior Chorus girls, Hal Buler 
end his songsters and the Lookout band, 


JUVENILE SECTION. 


Underneath the interesting hustle 
of the Juvenile section, there is in the 
minds of the boys the materializing of 
their dreams. Tribes are getting their 
Indian names, and little chicfs have beer 
appointed. This group of Juveniles is the 
representative body of the camp, and is 
therefore an honoured position. Today 
cabins three and four played beseball 
with cabirs five and six. 4 number of 
boys have helped Norman Brown to prepare 
Our arene, and soon the section will have 
an exccllent place for evening programs, 


__. The Seniors have the . 
Nevertheless, the small one, which they 
have, served the purpose for a slight 
mishap during which, Pete, Dick and pon 
tumbled into the icy waters of Kanawana 
with high boots and heavy clothes on, 
Pete's sketch gives you a rough idea of 
what happened. No wonder the Juveniles 
laughed and laughed. 

From their dock they saw three 
mermen trying to climb aboard & la 
Swiss Family Robinson, 


are ke ee ee es > 


