" 


‘\ 
aoe S4GY 
st . ANF GIN 
= = — oN if A SINS 
eee ae ers S — s ss rts 
- ~ a ae 
Fe a | 
= 2 ‘ BAS iF, ve 
‘ NS ; ae 
¢ Ei 
een cnet it A AECL 
ee och peeeneranaagrinaemneny- anneal eae ene TT i 
Kamp Kanawana aoe = Saturdey, July 16, 1938 
. ~ ieee - ge 


woogie 


SENIORS WIN CARNIVAL 


Senior cemp's colorful float depicting Cleopatra in a galley ship won the 
boating cernival which was held here Sundey. The float was composed of two row 
boats with a double pletform mounted on top of them. There is a rumour around 
camp that the chief and Cleopatra ere "that wey" about each other. It certain- 
ly looked that wey lest Sundey. Norm WelLeace 
snappily dressed in a cap which might heve been 
stolen from ¢ Montrecl street-car conductor, 
ennounced the verious floets. First prize for 
Juvenile section was won by ecbin 2's Louis vs. 
Schmelling fight, end second prize went to eabin 
1 for their "Dionne Quintuplets". Tent 2 Junior's 
"bell-field" float received honoreble mention from 
judges Teylor, Cartier, end Norman. 

: One of the largest audiences thet has ever been 
Ce ae seen around Kenawsue. witnessed the event. 
wecomprnying Norm Wellace's réucous ennouncenents, 
the music from Benny Goodmnn's records wes vafted from the gramephone in the 

Crov'sNest. 

is Other floats in the exrnivel were tent 8$ Jr.'s “Opening Ceremonies et Kemp 
2 Kenereane," tent 3 Ir.'s "Pirete Ship", end "Tho survivers from tne Titenic™. 


PON 
iia ae 


MERRITT'S TUMBLERS 


The work Clerk Merritt has done with the row metericl supplied him here at 
Kemp is extremely leudable, es was demonstrated last Saturdey night when his 

tumbling team presented a varied progrem of acrobatic feats. 

The show sterted off with Pete Mershall leading the sing-song.- Then the 
various acts begen. Derrick Crossey geve his imitatious which are becoming 
femous around Kemp, cnd Tom Best emused everyone with his imitation of & bag- 
pipe. Bob LeMoyne's imitations of “a men getting drank" end "Rockefeller 
playing golf" were good, and Phil Simpson's hill-billy songs seem to’ be getting © 
more populer every week. Kenny (Goodman) Jones swung it on his kazzoo. 


. 


EDITORIAL STAFF 


Editors: Morrey Cross & Rigo Pelletier 
Art Editor: Robert LeMoyne 
Asstt Art Editor: Jerry Besner 
ireulation Manager: Edward Power 
Business Manager: Douglas Dilks 


PYJ/MA PARADE PROVES POPULAR 


In the eslorful pyjama pageant whieh was held after several postponemonts on 
Tuesday, the chief took first prize with his "ripping" costume. Second prize went 
te Tom Best for his dszzling combination of toque and pyjamas, and third prize was 
won by "The Four Hoarse Men”, who aie sae around Kamp as Bill Evans, Deug Hill, 
Louis Massue, and Hugh Fulton. 

The parade proceeded from Kamp to DeKonick's where the mail was distributed, 
and to any innocent btstander, might have appeared to have been a community of 
chronic sleep-walkers. 

They were accompanied by a band of harmonicas, whose dulcet tones were wafted 
dreamily over the Laurentians by the languid evening breezes. - 

A barn dance, under the chief's able direction, took place at the post office, 
and Benry Holden ied the sing-song. 

Then everyone returned to Kamp...removed their pyjamas...removed their clothes,.. 
put on their pyjamas....-phooey! 


ep 


“m , ae 
CATES 
ww NS { ! 
or HOMSISOSOODA GS SODNELISEE AMMO ORNAISESORIISHE NERGORRNISSEOHNS 


$$ Unscramble the letters of the following words and rearrange them to form Ai 


$$ a logical sentences.ee... ie) 
dh Fate’ 
4 sP4? 


TNRPDEI HET SHRUBLIPES' SCSAUPIE PEARP HTE DUGIL SI DRNEU S345 


$$ HIST FO ne 


dace eek 
Pa? 44? 
bo The first person to hand in the correct solution will be awardeda. ¢$& 
$$ prize in the dining hall next Monday. os 
‘ mA 
oo Hand in your solutions to Rigo Pelletier, Tent 11, Junior. oe 
dhedh od 
pep Pi 
S$ There will be another contest next week. Watch for it. ie 
sis Mt, at, 
% a? Py 


Aa chee dbl dls sdb a se PAPE IM TE Ahab ed Ah dS ALE AG ANAS Shh ob A 


13 : : rd deh gb eb Ab dhe Aah eat An ed g 
Se SPSPPSPSPSPSPNP >" hemes. SPIES EES 2S SPP SPS Se Se PSPSPS? 


Tatatete tat ; AI PE Sat eh Cl fo dhaes 
7 Panes epg? 4c Oe ees sew et ae79 SPSS Se We Si cess oa WOW TNE Pe WEP NAP Ne 


OCINTY NOTH: Dvight Rivard vent to the city-lest week to be best man at his 
teotner's wedding . ‘ 


=a Harris and Mr. Brace had method in “rcir -:2éness when they put Live matches 
| the scavenger huntessecccsvecsseccerses-see:Tu5TS Wasn't a mateh in Kamp. 


=) 


 ALLACAMP REGATTA IS SUCCESS 


Last Tuesday, the camp held its first all-camp regatta of the season. The 
day started out unpromising, but cleared up just in time. The following are 
the events and the prizewinners: 


Juvenile war canoe: 
Dick Matthews, Bill Dryden, Doug McGillis, Billy Lewis, Tim Ware, 
Sandy Spence, and Harry Hamilton (cox). 


Junior war canoe: 
Ken | Eaton, Ted Crossey, Jack Mackay, Robert Mahon, Billy Davis, 
John smith, and Ted Percy (cox). 


Juvenile double row-boa*: 
te . Billy Dry ce Dy Herry Hamilton, and Dick Matthews. 
&- John Turner Bone; Norm Pavne, and Jin Gar ieg?: 

3. Dovg Hoglish, Fred Yhow, and Robert Dixo 


Junior cvab Teco: Junior Doubles canoe: 

L. Ted Crossey 1. Crossey & Mackay 

2. Ted Percy 2. Cadenhead & Mahon 

S- Junior Taylor 3. Richardson & Hodgdon 
Senior singles canoe: Barrel race: ; 

1. Henry Holden 1. Henry Holden 

2. Jerry Wrenshall 2. Chief 

3. Ward Borrie 

Point Winners: i 

Tilting: Juvenile: ‘Harry Hamilton 

1. Hassal & Gray .Billy Dryden 

2. Borrie & Smith Junior: Ted Crossey 

3. Knapp & Holden Senior: Henry Holden 

iH 
ELELS 


(With apologies to Joyce Kilmer) 


I think that I shall never see 

4 bug as lively as a flea; 

A flea whose hungry mouth is pressed 
Lgainst a dog's smooth furry chest: 
A flea that clings to him all dey, 
And bites him cften in the usual way; 
A flea that inevw in sumer tear 
wound quite freely in his heir. 

Upon “viese boeot FLit ve 
For certainly £3 must be siain. 
Poems ore made by fone: les me, 
But onzy dogs can haroour fleas. 


eet 7 
J fb As ils 


"Docit 


"The only way to heve a friend is to be one." --Hmerson. 


