PR 


MONTREAL 


SEPTEMBER, 1932 


EVENING STUDENTS WIN SCHOLARSHIPS 


Eleven Students Receive Abner Kingman Awards for Excellent Scholastic 
Work During Last College Year 


An almost impossible task faced the Com- 
mittee which recommended to the Board of 
Management of the College the award of this 
year’s Abner Kingman Scholarships. These 
five scholarships, it will be remembered, are 
awarded for “promising students”,—and their 
recipients must display not only excellence of 
eehotership, but those traits of personality and 
character which would lead teachers and staff to 
feel confident of their future progress. 


The winners are:—Grammar School—William 
Ellis ($50); High School I—Hector Sturgess, 
Wm. A. Cooke and A. G. Ure, equal ($20 
each); H. S. II—John McKelvey ($50); second 
scholarships to W. Preston and E. R. Owen 
($20 each); H. $. II—Lillian Jacobson ($50); 
second scholarships to Mrs. P. E. Hiltz and 
Norman Oxley ($20 each); H. S. IV—Alfred 
Garber ($50). 


William Ellis: The winner of the Evening 

Grammar School Scholar- 
ship, William Ellis, is 15 years of age. He left 
Maisonneuve School at the end of his sixth year, 
to go to work. Deciding however, that he would 
continue his education, he entered the Evening 
Grammar School in 1930. He is at present 
working as a clerk in a law office, but if future 
circumstances permit, he hopes to take up min- 
ing engineering. (At the time of going to press, 
The Bulletin had no photograph of this stu- 
dent.) 


W. A. Cooke: <A co-recipient of the schol- 

arship in first year “Eve- 
ning High”, W. A. Cooke graduated from 
Berthelet Public School in 1922. After nine 
years of experience in the 
business world he decided 
that he required, to use his 
own words, to improve his 
“mental equipment”, so_he 
enrolled in the Evening High 
School last Autumn. He in- 
tends to finish “Evening 
High”, after which he may 
enter a professional career of 
a technical nature. Mr. Cooke 
is at present employed at the 
United Typewriter Company. He is 24 years of 
age. 


Norman Oxley: A student in the Evening 

; High School for the past two 
years, Norman Oxley has made an excellent 
record both years. He took his elementary and 


first year high school work 
at the Verdun High School. 
On completing Junior Matri- 
culation he expects to study 
for the Chartered Account- 
ant’s diploma. He is 25 
years of age, and is employed 
at the Nicholl’s Chemical Co. 


The third winner of the 
First Year scholarship, A. 
G. Ure, had also been out of school about 8 
years when he entered the Evening High. He 
is 23 years of age, and has 
worked for several years as 
a clothing salesman. He took 
his elementary school work 
at Ahuntsic. Following High 
School graduation he plans 
to take the Diploma of Com- 
merce Course in the Evening 
College of Arts, Science and 
Commerce. 


A. G, Ure: 


Hector Sturgess: After having been out of 

school for at least 12 years, 
Hector Sturgess decided last year to enter the 
Evening High School. He immediately discover- 
ed that his classmates were 
also mature young men and 
women, and applied himself 
so ably to his course that 
the Scholarship inevitably 
resulted. Mr. Sturgess is one 
of the many Sir George 
Williams College students 
who can boast of a wife and 
family. He is employed on 
the staff of the City Engineer 
of Verdun, and is an active 
member of the Board of Management of the 
Southwestern Branch of the Young Men's 
Christian Association. 


Mrs. P. E. Hiltz Three years ago Mrs. P. 

E. Hiltz entered first year 
of the Evening High School, in which she 
made a most creditable re- 
cord, after about 12 years 
absence from day _ school. 
Her scholastic achievement 
since then has been so good 
that she was named to share 
the special second scholarship 
awarded by the Board last 
May, in third year High 
School. 


John McKelvey: The winner of the Second 

Year Scholarship, left day 
school in February of 1930, and without loss 
of time enrolled in the Upper Form of the 
Evening Grammar School to 
complete his Grade VII work. 
In the school year 1930-31 
he won the scholarship in the 
first year of the Evening 
High School, and last year 
he repeated his success in 
second year. This will thus 
be John’s fourth year of 
evening school work. He 
hopes to matriculate, and per- 
haps study engineering. He is 
16 years of age. 


F When E. R. Owen last 
BE Owen: attended day school, he was 
a pupil at the Royal George School, which is 
now known as Herbert Symonds School. That 
was about 12 years ago,— 
Mr. Owen now being 27 
years of age. Last year he 
entered the second year of 
the “Evening High”, taking 
the College Preparatory 
Course. He plans to matri- 
culate, and attend university 
in preparation for the 
Christian ministry. 


The other winner of the 
second scholarship in Sec- 
ond Year High, Walter Preston, is 24 years of 
age, and is employed at the Imperial Tobacco 
Company. He received his 
early education in the schools 
of Manitoba before going to 
work eight years ago. In 
those eight years, he says, 
“IT saw enough to convince 
me beyond a doubt that if 
a person wishes to attain any 
amount of success in this 
world he must have a good 
education”. He hopes to 
continue study until he gets 
Junior and Senior Matriculation, and then per- 
haps attend day university. 


Walter Preston: 


Lillian Jacobson: A student for three years 

in the “Evening High 
School”, Lillian Jacobson this year wins an 
Abner Kingman Award for the: second time. 
Miss Jacobson, who is 22 
years of age, was out of 
school for six years before 
entering the “Evening High”. 
Since leaving day school she 
has been employed in an 
office. Beyond high school 
graduation, the professions 
of teaching and nursing are 
beckoning to Miss Jacobson. 


Alfred Garber: The winner of last year’s 

third year scholarship, Alfred 
Garber continued his good work in fourth year 
of the College Preparatory Course. At the 
McGill Junior Matriculation 
examinations held in June he 
secured 779 marks, ranking 
fourth on the B.Sc. pass 
list and eighth on the whole 
Matriculation list. When one 
considers that 265 students 
throughout Quebec and East- 
ern Canada wrote the com- 
plete Junior Matriculation 
examinations, one realizes 
the excellence of this achieve- 
ment. Mr. Garber will proceed to Senior Matri- 
culation in the Evening College of Arts, Science 
and Commerce. He is 26 years of age. 


THE BULLETIN 


SEPTEMBER, 1932 


oo nnn eo eee EEE EE EIS 


THE BULLETIN 


Issued by the 
Sir George Williams College 


of the 


MONTREAL Y.M.C.A. 
1441 Drummond Street 


BOARD OF MANAGEMENT 


G. W. MacKimaie, Esa. 
Chairman 


D. L. Macaurey, B.A., B. Sc. 
j. M. Mackenziz, M.A., LL.B. 
H. B. McLean, M.A., B.C.L. 


D. A. Bates, M.A. 

J. W. Braton, Ese. 

H. Burton, Ese. 

W. E. Crarxe, Esq. 

F. B. Common, K. C. 
H. W. Farmue, B. Sc. 
S. W. FairwEaTHER, B.Sc. 


EXECUTIVE STAFF 
Principal 
F. O. Strepper, M.A., Pu. D. 
Student Counsellor 
H. F. Haxz, L.R.E. 
Director of Commercial Education 
A. W. Youne (Principal Emeritus) 


T. J. Srevenson, Esq. 

F. O. Srrepper, M.A., Px. D. 
Cc. W. Taytor, B. Sc. 

E. E. Wattace, Esq. 


Registrar and Bursar 
K. E. Norris, M.A. 


Asst. Registrar 
L. B. RicHARDSON, 


STAFF OF INSTRUCTION 


j, “E Ailan, “BA. Jas. McCorkindale 
Edward Baty J. K. McLetchie, M.A. 
A. R.. Bourdon J. W. Morrison, C.A. 
J. W. Brunt, M.A. Iva F. Muir, P.C.T. 
R. F. Callan, M.A. K. H. Oxley, B.A. 

J. F. Cargin, B.Sc. D. A. J. Pavitt 

C. H. Cheasley, M.A. G. H. Penrose, B.A. 


J. F. Gilley, B.Sc. R. E. Raguin, Lic. és L. 
L. Crozier, B.A. C. S. Richardson, 
Clive Currie, B.A. M.A., LL.B. 
E. W. V. Deathe, B.A. M. A. Ross, M.A. 
J. H. DuBois, G. F. Savage, M.A. 
B.A., B.D. A. Saunders, B.A., 
Dorothy F. Dyer, F.R. Econ.8. 
P.C.T. TT. Sommerville, M.A. 
R. N. Elliott R. E. Scarf, B.A. 
Georges Flanagan V. Shabaeff 
I. F. Griffiths, B.A. B. G. Spracklin, 
W. V. Holt BAS Bise: 
J. W. Jardine, B.A. F. V. Stone, B.A. 
R. L. Kutz, M.Sc. E. Storr, B.A. 
J. H. Lavery M. S. Threlfall 
J. MacDonald, L. Unsworth, B.Sc. 
M.A., B.C.L. W. S. Watson, B.A. 


G. I. MacKenzie, B.Sc. 


O. S. Wheeler, B.A. 


EVENING DIVISION 


College of Arts, Science and Commerce 
Institute of Business and Technology 
Evening High School 

Evening Grammar School 

School of Fine and Applied Art 


DAY DIVISION 
Day Business School 
School of Fine and Applied Art 


VOCATIONAL AND EDU- 
CATIONAL GUIDANCE, 
IMPORTANT SERVICE 
FOR ALL S.G.W.C. 
STUDENTS 


After six years experience with a program of 
educational and vocational guidance, the admi- 
nistration of the College is more convinced than 
ever of the validity of this approach in a sound 
educational program. In fact it is quite true 
that one of the most important of all recent 
movements in education is an attempt to help 
young people in a personal way with regard to 
their choice of a life work and its related prob- 
lems. 

The Sir George Williams College was one of 
the first educational institutions in Canada to 


recognize the great value of this type of work 
by, five years ago, appointing a full-time Student 
Counsellor to deal with the individual students 
and their problems. 

Many mistaken ideas are current regarding 
the methods and purposes of guidance. It is 
thought by some that a series of tests given to 
an applicant can determine just which occupa- 
tion should be followed. Others believe that 
guidance has something to do with the occult, or 
is, at least, a mysterious art for the determina- 
tion of one’s powers and capabilities, through 
methods which are not understandable to the 
ordinary person. Both of these opinions are fal- 
lacious. In the first instance, though tests may 
be freely used, they are merely an attempt to 
discover aptitudes and abilities and do not take 
into account the equally important factors of 
interest and personality. It should also be re- 
membered that any valid system of guidance has 
nothing to do with fortune-telling. Its methods 
are rational and not mysterious. 

In spite of the fact that the College has a 
Student Counsellor on its staff, the guidance 
work is looked upon as a method permeating all 
its work rather than as a specialized task of one 
individual added to the main part of the edu- 
cational program. Class work such as the Orien- 
tation Course in the first. year of the High 
School, Education 101 in the College of Arts, 
Science and Commerce, and the Seminar Course 
in the final year of the General High School 
Course, all have a definite purpose in helping 
individual students with their own problems. 
The interest of all instructors in the welfare of 
the students, the easy accessability of the Prin- 
cipal, the Registrar and the Student Counsellor 
to students at all times, the close check on the 
progress of each student and the keeping of 
careful and complete records, make the guidance 
programme of the College a vital thing in the 
lives of its students, and not a mere theoretical 
policy. 

However, this service does not exist for stu- 
dents alone. The main point to be noted here 
is that any young man or woman, boy or girl, 
(or their parents or guardians), may feel free 
to approach the officers of the College at any 
time. These men do not guarantee to solve all 
problems. They have no universal panacea for 
the perplexities of youth. But any young person, 
with an educational problem, is assured of a 
sympathetic hearing, with no obligation to him- 
self, from the members of College Staff. These 
men have had professional training and long 
experience in dealing with the educational needs 
of young people. 


NEW TEACHERS 
JOINING STAFF 


To take charge of new courses offered, and 
to fill other vacancies, three new teachers will 
join the instructural staff this year, and two others 
have been engaged since the last issue of THE 
BULLETIN. These additions maintain the staff 
at 52 individual instructors, the same as last year. 
The number of instructors in each of the six 
schools is: 

College of Arts, Science and Commerce 20 

Evening High Schools ie DE 


Institute of Business and Technology. = 12 
Evening Grammar School 4 
School of Fine and Applied Art 4 


Day Business School ee 

Most of last year’s instructors will be teaching 
again this year. The new instructors are: 

In Biology 

Mr. Leigh Crozier, B.A., who for the past 
five years has taught in the Evening Grammar 
School, will this year teach Biology in third and 
fourth years of the Evening High School. Mr. 
Crozier is now studying Medicine at McGill 


University. 
In History 
James Kennedy McCletchie, M.A., will be the 
instructor of the History of Civilization courses, 
History 101 and 102, in the Evening College of 


2 


Arts, Science and Commerce. Mr. McCletchie is 
a graduate of McGill University, where he took 
honors in History. He is a teacher at the Mont- 
real High School. 
In Business Science and French 

Mr. James MacDonald, M.A., B.C.L., will 
teach Business Science in the Evening Institute 
of Business and Technology, and French in the 
Evening High School. Mr. MacDonald has had 
a wide teaching and business experience, and 
has been principal of several Ontario schools. 


In Elementary School 
Fred Victor Stone, B.A., joins the staff of the 
Evening Grammar School. Before entering 
McGill University, Mr. Stone taught school in 
Alberta. Mr. Stone was a member of the McGill 
Intercollegiate Debating Team which visited the 
University of Porto Rico last year. 


In Commercial Art 

Mr. James McCorkindale has been instructor 
in Commercial Art since January of last year. 
Mr. McCorkindale is a practising commercial 
artist. He had three paintings in the spring ex- 
hibition of the Montreal Art Association, one of 
which, “A Winter Landscape”, was mentioned 
very highly by the critics. 

Mr. V. Shabaeff has been doing special de- 
monstration and instructional work in the School 
of Art. He is rapidly becoming recognized in 
Canada for his mural paintings and Russian art. 


NEW COURSES 
TO BE TAUGHT 


Continuing its programme of expansion and 
constant re-organization to meet the varying 
needs of young people in commercial and tech- 
nical pursuits in this city, the Sir George Wil- 
liams College is this year again adding several 
new courses to the curricula of its various 
evening schools, 

There are, in all, some 135 different courses 
already available, but each year sees some addi- 


tion. 
German Language 


For the first time, students in the Evening 
College of Arts, Science and Commerce will 
have the opportunity of learning German. This 
will be, this year, a beginners’ course which will, 
as rapidly, as possible make the student con- 
versant with the grammar, pronunciation and or- 
dinary vocabulary of the language. It will pre- 
pare for Senior Matriculation in this subject, 
which may now be chosen instead of French if 
desired. It may, of course, be studied separately 
as a unit course, or included in the programme 
of subjects leading to the Diploma of Associate 
in Arts, Science or Commerce. From either the 
scientific or the general cultural points of view, 
German is an important modern language. 


Spanish Language 


A beginners’ course in Spanish will also be 
offered-this-year for the first time in the Ever 
ning College of Arts, Science and Commerce. 
This language is important commercially, be- 
cause of the extensive trade relations between 
Canada and South America. This course will 
give the fundamentals of Spanish, and will 
provide the student with a practical conversa- 
tional and literary knowledge of the language. 
This subject may be studied alone, or as part of 
the Diploma course. 

Business Science 

In the Evening Institute of Business and 
Technology, the new Business Science course 
will be definitely offered. This course may be 
taken alone, or as one subject in the second 
year of the Evening Commercial Certificate 
programme described in the general catalogue 
(p. 42). This course will be taught by Mr. Jas. 
MacDonald, M.A., B.C.L., who, having had legal 
training, will be particularly well qualified to 
deal with the commercial law aspects of the 
course. This course will give a wide and com- 
prehensive training in the principles of modern 
business functions, organizations and systems, as 
well as in the economic and historical back- 
ground of commerce and finance. 


THE BULLETIN 


“EVENING HIGH” 
STUDENTS PASS 
JUNIOR MATRIC. 


Successful in 70 Per Cent of Papers 
Tried. Only Two Failures in 
Physics and English 
Literature 


In spite of the sharply increasing standard 
of Junior Matriculation, students of the fourth 
year “Evening High” writing the examinations 
in June passed a higher proportion of their 
examinations than the graduating class of the 
previous year. Seventy per cent of the papers 
tried were passed. Only two failures were re- 
corded among the 45 students writing English 
Literature, and two of the 27 writing Physics. 
These classes were taught by Mr. Watson and 
Mr. L. Unsworth respectively. 

At McGill Junior Matriculation this year there 
were 645 candidates from Montreal and Eastern 
Canada, of whom 133 or 20: per cent passed. 


Successful Students 


The Sir George Williams College students 
passing complete McGill Junior Matriculation 
were:— Alfred Garber, Alexander Maclean, 
Hilda E. Gifford, Harold Gillmeister, Jacob 
Wittes. The following students have only one 
or two supplementals to write, and will most 
probably complete their standing in Septem- 
ber:— John Atkinson, Wm. P. Carter, W. 
Leslie Child, Thomas A. Clasper, Stanley Far- 
quharson, Patricia Fitzsimmons, Rose Friedman, 
Arthur Friedman, Ethel Galvin, John Gauthier, 
Hugo P. Kane, Albert W. Landry, John S. 
Lazarus, Harvey Little, Donald MacDonald, 
Winnifred Scott, Robert G. Sharps, Dixon M. 
B. Spear, Roy Thomas, Dorrien Weaver. Some 
others may also complete. 

Students writing partial Matric. and passing 
all papers attempted were:— J. E. Pickering, 
Carleton Wilkinson; and those with only one 
failure-— Harry Boland, Thos. G. Duncan, 
Beatrice Fox, Garnet Marshall, Wm. Ponman, 
James H. Wood. These students will complete 
their Junior Matriculation courses in another 
year’s evening study. Any year of the Evening 
High School may, if desired, be taken in two 
years. Some students prefer to take their fourth 
year work in this way, in order to make Junior 
Matriculation easier to one who is employed 
by day. 

Among the high marks secured were:— Alex. 
Maclean, 95 in Physics: Alfred Garber, 94 in 
Advanced Algebra and 91 in Physics. 


DIPLOMAS AWARDED 
GRADUATING €LASS 
General Course Students Secure 
Diplomas Along With 
Matriculants 


The High School Graduation Diploma of the 
Sir George Williams College is awarded to grad- 
uates of both the General and College Prepara- 
tory Courses each year. 

Students in the General Course qualifying 
for this Diploma in June were:—— Joseph Leibov, 
Alex. Wilden, Charles Marsh and David Altman. 

Joseph Leiboy has been a student of the 
“Evening High” for the past four years, having 
entered first year in 1928-29. Charles Marsh 
has been an evening student for three years. 
David Altman came to Montreal last year, 
having completed the early years of high school 
education in the public evening schools of the 
City of Detroit. 

All students obtaining the High School Grad- 
uation Diploma, whether through General or 
College Preparatory Courses are qualified to 
enter the Evening College of Arts, Science and 
Commerce. 


Evening Student Ranks Eighth 
in 645 Matriculation 
Candidates 


With an aggregate of 779 marks, Alfred 
Garber of the $.G.W.C. “Evening High” 
ranked fourth on the McGill Science Mat- 


riculation and eighth on the entire Junior 
Matriculation list of some 645 candidates. 
He has been a student of the Evening 
High School for the past two years. This 
high standing was attained in competition 


with students from day schools, whose 
whole time was available for school at- 
tendance and study. 


STUDENTS SECURE 
PITMAN DIPLOMAS 
FOR HIGH SPEED 


John Duffie Awarded  Pitman’s 


Medai For Stenographic Speed 


of 120 Words Per Minute 


Among the many graduates securing the 
Commercial Certificate in the Sir George Wil- 
liams College Day Business School last year, 
three are deserving of special mention. Pitman’s 
Shorthand Speed Certificate for 120 words per 
minute was secured by John Duffie, and for 
100 words per minute by Donald C. McNutt, 
and Norman Starkey. The Pitman’s special 
stenography medal was won by John Duffie, on 
passing his 120 word examination. 


Evening Commercial Certificate 


The Commercial Certificate of the Sir George 
Williams College is now available by means of 
evening study. This Certificate Course, day or 
evening, permits the student to specialize in 
either Stenography or Bookkeeping and Ac- 
counting,—and provides along with this a tho- 
rough training in Business Arithmetic, Business 
English and Business Science. All these subjects 
may, of course, be studied separately if desired, 
and a special unit course certificate awarded, 
but a gradually increasing number of evening 
students are preferring the broader and more 
comprehensive business training of the Com- 
mercial Certificate Cor.rse. This programme, 
along with the Technical Certificate Course, is 
described on page 42 of the general catalogue 
of the College. 


Registration Commences 


September is the month of registration 
im the Evening Division. 

If information is desired regarding any 
course in the six schools, a General 
Catalogue may be secured by writing, 
‘phoning or calling personally at the 
college office, (1441 Drummond St., 
Marquette 8331.) 


Office Hours 


After Sept. 6—9 a.m. to 9 p.m. 
(except Saturday—9 a.m. to 1 p.m.) 
Interviews are welcomed at noon or 
immediately after work in the afternoon. 
A personal visit to the College is the 
most satisfactory method of securing in- 
formation. 


Opening Dates 
School of Art - - - 
Day Business School - 
Evening Institute of 
Business & Technology - September 19th. 
Evening High School - October 3rd. 


Evening College of Arts, 
Science & Commerce - 


September Ist 
September 6th. 


October 3rd. 


Evening Grammar School - October 4th. 


“secured by the following students: 


SEPTEMBER, 1932 


EVENING COLLEGE 
STUDENTS SECURE 


SENIOR MATRIC. 
70 Per Cent of All Exams Passed— 
14 Students Successful in All 
Papers Written 


Senior Matriculation and the right to enter 
second year of day university was attained by 
six students of the Sir George Williams College 
Evening College of Arts, Science and Commerce 
at the June examinations set by McGill Univer- 
sity. As the majority of evening students prefer 
to write Senior Matriculation in two years, it is 
interesting to note that fourteen Sir George 
Williams College candidates passed every paper 
on which they wrote, and that 70 per cent of 
the exams tried by Sir George Williams College 
students were passed. 

Of the Chemistry class, taught by Mr. 
Spracklin, 82% of the students were successful, 
while some 74% of Mr. Unsworth’s Physics 
class passed in this subject. 

Candidates Successful 

Complete Senior Matriculation standing was_ 
Morris 
Swalsky, Edward Crelinstein, Henry M. Viberg, 
Maureen Flaherty, Joseph W. Holmes, G. A. 
Hutchison. Of these, the first three had taken 
the whole Senior Matriculation course in one 
year, and the last three had extended their course 
over two years of evening study. t 

The other students who passed every subject 
on which they wrote are also extending their 
course over two years. They are:— Edith V. 
Jacobson, Max Kessler, Robert Lazarus, E. C. 
McNeil, Walter Bohm, Wm. Myerson, John H. 
Rennie. 

A number of students will most likely com- 
plete their Senior Matriculation standing in 
September, having only one or two supplemen- 
tals to write. They are:— Henry Berlin, Alan T. 
Copple, Samson Gradinger, H. G. Hobble, 
Sonnette Ross, Edna Schechter, Jack J. Waller. 
Some others may also complete. 


PASS FIRST YEAR 
“ASSOCIATE” COURSE 


Evening College Programmes in 
Arts, Science and Commerce, 


are Proving Popular 

The first freshman class in the new three- 
year “Associate” course in the Evening College 
of Arts, Science and Commerce, has now ad- 
vanced to second year. The new college-grade 
programmes of study more than justified the 
faith of the College in effecting their organiza- 
tion, and excellent work was done throughout 
the year by most members of the class. 

Those successful in passing the final first-year 
examinations in May were:— 

In Arts:—Murray Clark, Veronica Whalen. 

In Science:—Robert Adelstein, Clinton Davis, 
Eric Rigby. 

In Commerce:—Joyce Turner. 

These Evening College programmes are or- 
ganized and taught from the point of view of 
the capable evening student, who is a high school 
graduate and employed by day. They are mo- 
delled after the Junior College courses given in 
most large North American cities, and provide 
in three years of evening study more than the 
equivalent of two years of day university, both 
in depth and range of subject matter, and in 
the actual! number of class hours spent in lec- 
ture room and laboratory. 

Three subjects each year, occupying two 
evenings per week, is the normal programme of 
the “Associate” course. These courses are at 
the same time broader and more practical than 
the usual college or university course, in view 
of the special needs, interests and maturity of 
evening college students. 


| Secure the 64-page Catalogue of Courses. | 


THE BULLETIN 


AMONG THE 


It is a regrettable fact that THE BULLETIN 
cannot hope to keep in touch with even a 
small proportion of the hundreds of Sir George 
Williams College graduates scattered throughout 
the land. It is especially difficult to discover 
the activities and whereabouts of graduates of 
the Day Business School and the Evening 
Institute of Business and Technology, who are 
now in business in Montreal and other cities. 
For almost 60 years these graduates have been 
going out to make their mark in the world of 
business,--and many of them have been more 
than ordinarily successful. Some of these THE 
BULLETIN has mentioned in previous issues. 
Others, we would be more than pleased to hear 
from. The following brief notes have been 
gleaned for THE BULLETIN. 


A Business School Graduate 


The April number of the “Canadian Pur- 
chasor” ran on its “Who’s Who” page a 
photograph and biographical sketch of Mr. 
Frank C. Woodroffe, purchasing agent and 
superintendent of the Henry Morgan & Com- 
pany Ltd., Beaver Hall factories, and an officer 
of the Canadian Purchasing Agents’ Association. 
One paragraph in this biographical sketch is 
especially interesting. It reads: 

“He was born in Montreal and is a graduate of 
the old Senior High School in Montreal, later 
taking the accountancy course at the Y.M.C.A. 
In connection with this business course, he says 
that when he applied for his first job in a 
broker’s office, they told him that he would 
have to pass an examination set by the company’s 
auditor before they took him on, but when the 
auditor heard that he had a certificate from 
the old Y.M.C.A. college, he didn’t need to 
try the exams.” 

Doing Advertising Work 

Mr. David Goldenberg, a member of the 
Advertising Class of the Sir George Williams 
College in 1926, visited the College offices 
recently. He has been in Advertising work ever 
since he finished his course here. He is at 
present in New York, where he is continuing 
his Advertising work, and studying Market 
Analysis at New York University part-time. 


At Detroit Tech. 


Mr. Jack Dempster, of Detroit, Mich., also 
visited the College offices recently. In only one 
more year he will secure his degree at the 
Detroit Institute of Technology. Mr. Dempster 
finished his high school work at the Sir George 
Williams College, then went to Detroit where 
he was able to work in the day-time and attend 
College at night, taking a B.Sc. course. 


Nursing 


Miss Shirley Mendelsohn, of Sir George 
Williams College “Evening High” 1929-30, will 
be graduated next year from the Beth Israel 
Hospital in Newark, N.J. 

Miss CG. R. Aikenhead, Sir George Williams 
College 1926, who was graduated with special 
distinction from the Montreal General Hospital 
in 1931, has during the past year been studying 
on a post-graduate scholarship in Piediatrics at 
the Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto. 

Miss Claire Frankum, Sir George Williams 
College 1928, who graduated from the Montreal 
General Hospital last year, is now on the Staff 
at the Western Hospital, Montreal. 

Miss Hilda Field, a former $.G.W.C. student, 
graduated this year from the Women’s General 
Hospital, Westmount. 

Miss Christine Dowling, a student of advanced 
French Conversation at the 8.G.W.C. in 1930-31, 
resigned from the Victorian Order of Nurses 
in October last and entered first year of the 
School for Graduate Nurses at McGill. 


At Cornell 


Louis Perron, $.G.W.C 1930, has been a 
student at Cornell university since his matricula- 
tion. 


GRADUATES 


Studying Accountancy 


Many graduates of the “Evening High” have 
already secured their Diplomas from the Ac- 
countancy Associations of the province, or are 
registered as students in the courses leading to 
the C.A. and other such certificates. Among 
those now following such studies are Clarence 
Cass, Lloyd Paul and Arthur Seymour. 


At Northeastern ‘‘U” 


E. W. Caine, $.G.W.C. 1929, has completed 
three years of the Commerce course leading to 
the Bachelor's degree in the Evening School 
of Business at Northeastern University, Boston. 


At Bishop’s 
Michael Ortenberg, $.G.W.C. College + 1931, 
has been attending the University of Bishop's 
College since he secured his Senior Matriculation. 


At Notre Dame and the Olympics 


Alex Wilson, graduate of the $.G.W.C., has 
completed his third year in the Arts course at 
Notre Dame University, where he is a prominent 
member of the track team. Alex was a member 
of the Canadian Olympic track team which 
competed at Los Angeles this summer. He ran 
second in the 800 metres, only one foot behind 
the winner who had to break the world’s record 
to beat him. He also ran third in a record 
breaking 400 metre dash. Alex is expected to 
take up Physical Education after graduation. 


At Queen’s 


Harry Feldman, $.G.W.C. College I 1929-30, 
has completed his second year at Queen’s 
University, Kingston, and plans to enter the 
Faculty of Dentistry at McGill this month. 

Orville Gamble, $.G.WC. 1928, was in the 
graduating class at Queen’s University last year. 


Teachers 


Four former §$.G.W.C. students attended 
Macdonald College last year, and secured their 
Intermediate Teacher’s Diplomas in May. Thev 
were: —- Miss Ella Rosengarten, Miss Bessie 
Holmes, Miss Leah Luttermann, Miss Beatrnve 
S. Kottler. 

Miss Holmes won the Cameron Prize for 
Primary Methods, and Miss Rosengarten also 
distinguished herself by winning the Gardner- 
Kneeland Memorial Prize in English Literature. 

Miss Ruby Prew, $.G.W.C. 1930, who secured 
her teacher’s diploma at Macdonald College, in 
1931, has been teaching in Verdun during the 
past year. 


Graduated from McGill 


E. E. Cockerton, who secured his matriculation 
through the $.G.W.C., secured his B.A. degree 
at McGill University this year. He expects to 
take up education as a profession. 

Kalman Angell, S.G.W.C. °28, also secured 
his B.A. degree at McGill in May. 

Joseph F. Ornstein, $.G.W.C. 1927, com- 
pleted fourth year of the course leading to the 
degree of Bachelor of Commerce. 

John F. Porteus, $.G.W.C. 1927, completed 
fourth year of the B.A. Course at McGill. 

Nelson McNiff, S.G.W.C. 1926, finished 


fourth year of the B.Sc. course. 


In Architecture 


Jack Kugel, S.G.W.C. 1931, who ranked 
second on the entire McGill Science Matricula- 
tion list in 1931, completed first Year 
Architecture at McGill with honours. 

John J. Lessor, S.G.W.C. 1931, was also in 
first Year Architecture. 

Maurice H. Fleishman, $.G.W.C. College I 
*30, was in first year Architecture. 


In Law 


Alastair Watt, B.A., a scholarship winning 
graduate of the “Evening High” in 1926, suc- 
cessfully completed second year Law at McGill. 

William Mitchell, $.G.W.C. 1927, completed 
first year Law. 


f 


SEPTEMBER, 1932 


In Commerce 


Philip K. Nutt, $.G.W.C. 1929, completed 
third Year Commerce at McGill. 

Maurice H. Katz, S.G.W.C. College I 1931, 
was in second year Commerce at McGill, after 
having taken Senior Matriculation by means of 
evening study. 

Lorne F. W. Ogilvie, $.G.W.C. 1929, was in 
second year Commerce. 

Lillian Beckow, S.G.W.C., 
first year Commerce. 

Wm. T. Moran, S.G.W.C. 31, was in first 
Year Commerce. 


In Science 


Henry B. Yuen, S.G.W.C. 1928, completed 
third year of the B.Sc. Course at McGill. 

James J. Hogan, S.G.W.C. 1929, was also in 
third year B.Sc. Course. 

Wm. P. Heelan, $.G.W.C. 1931, was in first 
year of the B.Sc. Course. 

Alex N. Christie, $.G.W.C. College I °31, 
was in B.Sc. 
_ Raymond N. Miller, S.G.W.C. °31, was in 


BSc. I. 
In Medicine 
Stanley Brown, B.A., S.G.W.C. 1926, finished 
third Year Medicine at McGill in June. 
In Music 


Eileen Stockman, $.G.W.C. College I "31, 
was in first year of the Faculty of Music at 


McGill. 


1931, completed 


In Engineering 

The following former Sir George Williams 
College students were in Engineering at McGill 
last year: 

John D. Shortall, $.G.W.C. 1928, in second 
year. Oswald Barry, S.G.W.C. College I °29, 
in second year. Archie Piestrich, S.G.W.C. 
College 1°29, in second year. Jason H. Ingham, 
S.W.G.C. °29, in second year. Gilbert M. 
Young, S.G.W.C. °29, in second year. John R. 
Booth, $.G.W.é5. °30, in first year, after a year 
in Arts at McGill. Ian Foster, S.G.W.C. °29, 
in first year, after a year in Arts. Carl Juzenko, 
$.G.W.C. °30 in first year, after a year in Arts. 
Herbert T. Monks, $.G.W.C. °29, in first year, 
after a year in Arts. Max Schnyder, S.G.W.C. 
30, in first year, after a year in Arts. 

The following students were in first year 
Engineering, without the necessity of a year in 
Arts, having secured Senior Matriculation 
through the Sir George Williams College, 
College I Class: 

J. Robert Wait, S.G.W.C. College I, 1931. 
David Bloom, S.G.W.C. College I, 1931. 
Thaddeus C. Jones, S.G.W.C. College I, 1931. 
Orland Sbragea, S.G.W.C. College I, 1931. 

After completing first year Engineering in 
1930-31, Solomon Parkovnick, Sir George 
Williams College 30, was not at McGill last 
year. 


In Arts 


Ernest C. J. Carter, scholarship winning 
graduate of the “Evening High” in 1929, com- 
pleted third year of the B.A. Course at McGill, 
with honours in English and German. 

Naomi Jackson, $.G.W.C. College I 1930, 
another scholarship winning graduate, completed 
third year of the B.A. course with first class 
honours in French and German. 

James Hastings, S.G.W.C. °29, completed 
third year Arts. Robert A. Hamilton, $.G.W.C. 
College I °30, completed third year Arts. 
Lindsay H. Place, $.G.W.C. *29, was in third 
year Arts. 

Mrs. Annie R. MacKay, S.G.W.C. College 
I 30, was in second Year of the B.A. Course, 
winning honours in Sociology. 

W. J. V. Buchanan, S.G.W.C. °30, has been 
enrolled as a partial student in Arts the past 
two years. 

Wm. F. Wilson, $.G.W.C. *29, who was in 
first year Arts in 1930-31, did not return to 
McGill last year. 


| Secure the 64-page Catalogue of Courses. 


