a i | 8 he bat om 
fete “say, } 
aE Sy 
' ! zi Seem 2 { ce 
el See een 
| like sand A AY, 
? : ( Ns. “9 
4 - | Ee ee 
eer 
OR hs —, 
GREEN TRIANGLE _ ~~ J 
Vol 47 No 6. % 
cate ee eR Levey a ree ae Oe 
KAMP KANAWANA AUGUST 12, 1940. 
A VISIT TO CAMP KANAWANA - --------------------------- BY DR. A.J. BRAC 


Impressions? Yes barrels of them! The lovliest camp I have ever been in. Well 
organized, programme superfine, leaders de lux campers the best of good fellows. Tats 
the best ever - Mrs. Cameron is a real artist in the kitchen, 

Thon, our chats on World Service as we visited various corners of the world brought 
a fine response with real intelligent questions which showed wide reading among many of 
the campers. 


Then the Chinese yell went over big. China ten thousand years, 

Chong Hua, Wan Sue, The republic ten thousand years, 
Ming Kua, Wan Sue, ; Ten thousand, ten thousand times 
Wen Sue, Wun Sue, Ten thousend years, 


Wan, Wan, Sue. 

That is a great wish for brave China standing up through three years of undeclared 
war wished on her by an aggressive neighbour. However, tho Y.M.C.A. in forth cities, 
saa ¢ hundred and twenty schools and fifty camps and inthe army are aoing a great job. 

Thon the Chinese meal prepared by Dr. David and Senior Campers was a great success 
ax. ‘ne chop sticks,oh my. 

China is only one per cent Christian but eighty per cent of China's great leaders 
have come from this vital Christion minority and are making a real new CHINA. Chiang 
K2i Shek, the General Issimo and his courageous wife are great Christian lesadois, At 
the recent Y.M.C.A. General Secretaries Conference we moved three requests. 

(1) Help spread the Y.M.C.A. spirit in new centres, and throughout the 
army. 

(2) The Y.M.C.A. can help. the new life movement that is changing China, 

(3) The Y.M.C.A. can telp his moral reform campaign and assist in erad- 
icating tle curse of Opium. : 

Then the stories of India, Moslem Egypt, Africa and War Torn countries of Europe 
mace a rea} impression and made us all glad to be partners in tle World Service Program 
OS “tee MGshs- --~-~-- —-—--—--- —wammwumetrdueebbacuct ne 


"NATURE STUDY" 

The Nature Study Group has shown much interest in the programme as laid out by 
Doug. Fairbairn, the Director of Nature Study. The programme has included talks on 
tiny microscope, Nature Study trips to see the different rock formations around Kanawana 
trips to Lxke Wilson to see and examine Kanawana's Insect Eating plant, the Pitcher 
Plant as vell as talks on the different types of plants, and dissections of +ne Kanawane 
Frog. Those are only a few of tle interesting subjects dealt with in this class many new 
Ones have been prepared and it is hoped that the campers will take full advantage of 
these last few weeks to learn a little,more of the interesting things in Nature arcund 
WORN gua ere ea a ea alailiosig ei susan aise : 


xe 


MOCK=-TRIAL PROVES HIGHLY ENTERTAINING 

Leet Tuesday caro the dolsful news of a murder in the peaceful colony of 
Kanewana. Immediately Karswana rensed a°001f ond scout for its two greatest defectives, 
Snoop and Peep. Without delay, t1ieae two ccrnsred the Kenawane. population in the Dining- 
Pavilion during the supper hour, It was no time at 111 befae the suspect, Doc, Persaud, 
was located and having grilled intorsively was led away. 

That night as the Camp gathered soberly in its ancient court house our tow crier 
Pop Cornus, announced the trial of Doc, Persay ? élias I, Killumfor the murder of an 
innocent Betes Streptococus Scarletina. Folloiag this, in filed a cerefully selected jury 
which included a noted stargazer #stro Mener, and an swerican Barber, commonly know as 
Yankee Clipper, Following this came the crow -roseeutory Court Morshall ami the defense 
liar Ernestine Stablerpuss, A silent hush pos:cssed this asseuably upon the arrival of 
our distinguished and honorable 7 istice Loobum, 

The trial was about to Fvoceed when it was discovered t+ the suspect had 
escaped, Once again our no-od def-ctives came to the rescue in shorts and. the killer 
was found in short order, , 

The trial then proceeded on it; way towerd the conviction of I Killun. Features 
of the trial were:- 


(1) The strong cases brought up on both sides, 
(2) Tho Judge's mistache which wanted to bo a beard. 
(3) Tho amazing antics of the unprejudiced and unpaidjuryy~ ~~~... 
(4)The two dischoraant belis who strung us a line. 
Corinliy yours, 
: =DITOR 
(5) Tho interwtions of Ed. Smelt (Stink is the word) 
(6) Highlight of the evening was Judge Bcobum's nose. 
Highlit of the oveniug was the judge himself. 
(7) Pappy Ycokum jucv another hard-boiled egg - all of them 
yellow inside, 
Tle sentence, to lead a sing-.ong next day, was enferced by our colony cop. 
E. Raaffslobberpuss 


"ADVISE TO THE LOVALORN' 
Torothy Kix 
Dear Miss Kix: 
Whenever 1 goto ths theatre with precious she elways starts to crowd 
over toward my seat, What shall I do? 
Ernie S, 
(answer ) 
Dear Ernie s,;: 
Offer to change 3eats with her, 
Dot, 
Dear Miss Kix: 
Every time I see ea giri. I make love to her, but some other boy, always 
gets her in the end, What shall I do? 
(answer ) 
Dear Boris 227222722; (Stuperman ) 
A good Russsian iz a doad Russsien. 
Dot, 
Dear Miss Kix; 
t am blond,aged 2° singie ar? am considered to be very good looking, 
I have a rich father and plenty of money. How can I get iots of girl friends? 
Fred Weiner 
Dear Hot Dog; 
You ought to be a wow. Send me your return address and I will deliver 
the answer personallity, 


