August 12th. 1933-. 4 
THE GREEN TRIANGLE | 
= 0= 0= 0=0= 0= 0= 0= 0= 0=0=0= 0=0=0-=0=0-0=0-0= 


Here we are again fellows with the 6th. copy of the Green 
Triangle and we hope that you will like it. We have still not received 
wery much assistance from the campers, but we are still hoping that next 
week will be better. 

Later on in this paper we will have the latest news about 
Presty Robb, as given By Mr. Peterson, who was talking to Presty last night. 
We are indeed very sorry to hear that Prestyowill not be with us again this 
season, but we sincerely hope that he will be back again next year. 


The Editor. 


GREAT UPROAR IN THE DINIG ROOM 
AS MR.REG. KELLY ENTERS. 


A thundering Pk «a up in the dining room as Mr. &nd 
Mrs. Kelly entered. We are indeed to Welcome both Mr. and Mrs. Kelly back 

to Kanawana and hope that they will enjoy their stay with us. We are 

looking forward to hear Mr. Kelly speek tomorrow at the Chappel service. We 
are sure that every camper will remember the interesting talks that Mr. Kelly 
used to give us last year at the morning devotions. 


The Editor. 


LATEST NEWS ABOUT PRESTY ROBB. 
AS GIVEN BY MR. PETERSON. 


-After leaving here, Presty has passed through a very strenuous 
time, such that is has been necessary for him to have a special nurse and 
Nedical care up to the present. However he is making good headway now, not 
only on his own steam, but because his elderly dear old nurse has been 
replaced by a sweet loving young thing. Heis ex,ected to be getting out 
of ped sometime next week and leave for his summer home at Portage, Que, 
where he will recuparate for his fall entry at McGill. Preston sends his 
very best regards to all the boys and wished that he could return to Kanawana. 


=0=0~ 0-0-0" 0-0-0=0-0- 
We are very glad to announce that Jimmy Shand's injuyy was 
not as serious as was expected and he will probably return before the season 


is over. 


-0= 0= 0=0-0-0-0=0-0-0-0= 


AMON XXX EAMEXTRARK 
JUNIOR CAMP AQHATIC MikT 


The Junior camp held an aquatic meet on Tuesday, and it was 
run through in fine style, Jimmy Novinger was the outstanding 
winner of the meet and his tent, tent 1, came first in the tent 
pointing. Jimmy Jimmy won the meet with 16 points and tent 1 went 
into the lead with 30 points. The next man, Paul Paterson gave 
Jimmy a good run for first with 14 points and Mare Charlton gave 
Paul a good run for secong, coming third with 13 points, Tent 7 
came second with 26 points and tents 4 and 6 tied for third with 
7 points. On tk whole the boys had agood time, 


The placing of the events was as follows; 


' 25 yards under 14 free style 
1st P Paterson, 2nd J.Novinger. 
50 yards over 14 free style 
1st M.Charlton, 2nd D.Pinkney. 
Long Plunge under 14 
lst J.Novinger, 2nd P.Paterson. 
Long Plunge over 14 
lst J.Csavossy, 2nd D.Pinkney. 
25 yards under 14 breast stroke 
lst P.Paterson, 2nd J.Novinger. 
25 yard over 14 breast stroke 
lst M.Charlton, 2nd J.McGrory. 
Diving under 14 
lst J.Novinger, 2nd P.Paterson. 
Diving over 14 
lst N.Harris, 2nd M.Charlton, 


George Tully, 


THe JUNIOR CAMP TRACK MET 
August _ 10, 1933 


Kean competition throughout featured the Junior Camp Track 
and Field Meet last Thuraday afternoon, Under the capable lead- 
ership of Ben Brooks and John Lewis the events were run off with- 
out a hitch, and the meet was all over in good tim for General 
Swin, 

An amusing interlude occurred when John Morton, in attempt- 
igg to break the long jump record, made a sliding sitting land- 
ing and discovered that it is better to jump with pants on than 
off, We noticed John sitting for a long time gn the cool water 
during General Swim, 


Mare Charlton was declared Junior Athletic Champion with 
two firsts and a third to his credit. Charlie Paterson was XMXXM Second 
in total points won with A.Clarke a close third, 
The winners in the various events were as follows: 
High Jump - lst Charlton, 2nd C.Paterson, 3rd Boyken. 
Running Broad Jump - lst @larke, 2nd C.Paterson, 3rd Pinkney, 
Standing Broad Jump - lst Boyken, 2nd Clarke, 3rd Charlton. 
Shot Put - lst Charlton, 2nd Boyken, 3rd C.Paterson, 
MRXXHKX Road Race - lst Charlton, 2nd Boyken, 3rd C.Paterson, 


The first six in order of points gained were: Charlton, 15: 
C.Paterson 173; Clarke 203; Boyken 26; Novinger 273; Carswell 28, 


By Ye Junior Scribe 


Went Ad Colum of the Green Triangle. 


For Saleg2 Boston Bull,16 ton model,can cook and wiil spend nights out,good 
references,with a reason for selling. 


Lost:- One baseball reputation.Finder please return to RegsKelly. 


Wanted to sells- One pair of diapers,slightly used,but otherwise in good condition 
Apply :-Austin Triming enior Camp. 


Wanted:=- One English to French DictionaryeApply George Tully. 


ITEMS OF GENERAL INTEREST 


In/view of the fact that Alf Shuet appeared at the hospotal 
with a large sp2inter in his posterior, the doctor has added his voice to 
+he popular demand for armchairs at the second staff table. 


Frank Martin couldn't take it, he 1% --™ 1ast Sunday and 
has heen trying ever since to get back-an camp. Last Friday evening he was 
successful@in.persuading his father to-bring him back to Kaneawand. 
. - ee —— Pr 


HEARD rd t¥ RETR CAMP 


When I grow up I want to ve like Wally Kembal and ride 
to St.Sauveur every night in the truck. , i 


~ 


——— 


WE WOUL I TO KNOW: 


Who peels that patatoes at the staff table, now that it has 
been authoritavely denied that Hart Deveney does so for the sum of 50g per 
meal. 


