4 


The YMCAs 
» Of Québec 


Shine (n 


A Year of Resilience 
2025 Impact Report 


To inspire and 
encourage all 
people to fulfill 
their potential, 
thrive, and 
contribute to 
their community. 


Charity Registration Number: 11900 1790 RROOO1 


Inclusion 
Respect 
Solidarity 
Boldness 
Caring 
Performance 


12-14 


15516 


16 


17 


18 


19 


20 


ell 


20 


Message from the PresidGrianignaarem 
A Look Back at 2025 

Youth Success 

Kanawana Summer Camp 

Temporary Housing 

Exclusion Prevention 

Health and Adoption of Healthy Lifestyle Fabits 
Training and Skills Development 
Recognition and Internal Contributions 
Anniversaries 

2025 Financlal Stake ie aie 

Volunteer Leadership 

The YMCAs of Quebec Foundation 


New Website 


© — 


Message from the President and Chair 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


In 2025, our organization was put to the test. It faced complex, often unexpected problems, which required difficult choices, courage, and a great 
Capacity to adapt. Above all, the past year has reminded us of a fundamental truth: Resilience ts built through solidarity and the trust we place 
In one another. 


Guided by our mission, we took the time to refocus on what matters most: our impact. This is what influenced our at-times difficult, but 
necessary, decisions to ensure the organization's sustainability and to continue addressing, with fairness and humanity, the most pressing social 
needs. 


Despite these challenges, 2025 was marked by an incredible mobilization. Across Quebec, our teams, volunteers, partners, and donors showed a 
deep commitment to the YMCA. Together, we continued to support young people's success, foster inclusion, promote health and healthy lifestyles, 
offer training so people could develop their skills, and provide safe, welcoming spaces to those who need them most. 


We see the future clearly, and we are convinced that the YMCA must remain a key player in social well-being. This impact report is a testament to 
our collective strength. It recounts a year of active resilience, a year of achievements that enable us to transform ourselves and move forward 
with clarity. 


Si feale CnatD— 
SS > , 
Pascale Audette 
President and CEO 


The YMCAs of Québec 


Francois Tremblay, 
Chair of the Board of Directors 
The YMCAs of Québec 


A Year of Resilience |3 


A Year 
of Solidarity 


The past year has reminded us of one essential thing: 
Mutual assistance Is Our main lever. 


When | started working at the YMCA in January 2025, | never 
imagined the scale of what lay ahead. However, one thing | 
was certain of was that | was now part of a deeply committed 
team, a team that is dedicated to the high-quality of its work 
and that stands firm in the face of adversity. 


The unity and courage I| witnessed left me speechless. 


The sudden loss of substantial revenue at the beginning 

of the year has had a major impact on our budgets and 
abilities. It forced us to conduct a thorough analysis of our 
programs and services so that we can focus on the areas 
where our impact is the most sustainable, while ensuring 
Our organization's financial viability. This was a difficult 

and courageous exercise, as it meant closing the YMCA 
International Language School, discontinuing our day camp 
programs, reducing some of our fitness activities, and ending 
some of Our community programs. 


These programs left a real mark on all of us. They supported 
youth, helped families, created spaces for learning, and built 
bridges between generations. Even though we had to shut 
them down, their legacy is an integral part of the YMCA's 
DNA, as are the many people who brought them to life. 


Refocusing to Move Forward 
More Effectively 


Today, we have the opportunity to build a YMCA that is 


clearer in its mission and more confident in its actions. 


We are taking a necessary step back to reinforce our 
foundations and continue to serve our communities, 
all while remaining a place of belonging where 
everyone can shine. 


We have always been present where social issues require 
the strongest and most humane responses. And we 

will continue to be, as it is our duty to act, support, 

and actively contribute to long-term solutions in the 
face of growing challenges. Our multigenerational, 
complementary, and diverse offering is both a strength 
and a responsibility. 


NEXT © 


© — 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


A Year Gfimesilience |4 


‘ 


— 
4 
- 
| /@ 
Young people gathered 
_ at the YMCA after school, 1970 


\ 


. 
y » 


The future is taking shape with the implementation of the 2026—2028 strategic plan, 
inspired by the basics of social entrepreneurship. 


This model rests on: 


e The responsible management of profits, focused on the common good 
¢ Financial sustainability to create lasting value and jobs 

¢ Aclear social goal, which will guide each of our decisions 

e Ashared, democratic, inclusive, and transparent governance 


These principles fuel our vision for the YMCA of tomorrow. 
As we celebrate our 175" anniversary in 2026, | can say with conviction that | am not 


worried about the future. While resilience has characterized our present, our mission 
will continue to guide our future. It is the driving force behind our innovation. 


So let Us go beyond adaptation. Let us actively shape our future, broaden our horizons, 


and create opportunities that redefine what is possible. As long as we do this together, 
nothing is out of reach. 


Thank you for believing in us and thank you for your ongoing commitment 
to inspire all people to fulfill their potential, thrive, and contribute to their 


community. 


— Pascale Audette, President and CEO 


A Year of Resilience |5 


have no other options. | was also 
of trust with my parents, which at 


able to rebuild a rela 


a ae 


ime see 


— Jason, Director of Operations, Eastern Montreal and Former Participant in the du Parc YMCA's TeenZone 


Igniting Young 
People's Potential 


There is potential in every young person—the potential 
to persevere and succeed In school, work, and life. 
Through our wide range of programs, children and 
teenagers develop essential skills, make meaningful 
connections, and interact with adults whose support 
can make a world of difference. 


Jason is a striking example of the support we aim to 
provide to youth. In high school, he was going through 

a difficult period, marked by isolation and substantial 
challenges in his school and home life. Discovering the 
TeenZone at the du Parc YMCA was a turning point for 
him. With the support he received from the youth workers, 
he was able to channel his energy, regain confidence, 

and, in turn, become a positive influence on others. 


Today, Jason is still connected to the Y: He Is the director 
of operations for the eastern Montreal region. 


A Year of Resilience |6 


TeenZones are free, safe spaces for teens aged 12 to 17 and young adults aged 16 to 24. 
With opening hours tailored to neighbourhood needs, they offer a welcoming, dynamic environment 
where everyone fits in. 


In 2025, we increased our direct presence to attract more participants based on their interests 
and reach them when and where it matters most: 


e In Montreal's Plateau-Mont-Royal borough, a new TeenZone, located in the chalet at Baldwin Park, 


now welcomes a dozen teens every lunch hour. 


e Anew TeenZone was also inaugurated at the ACCESS CET-A Saint- Hubert campus of its automobile 


mechanics vocational program, becoming a hub for students. 

e In Saint-Laurent, 12 participants completed barber training and eight of them decided 
to pursue this career path. 

e At the West Island YMCA, four participants learned how to assemble a desktop computer, 
developing their computer, financial, and problem-solving skills. 


Named after the YMCA instructor who invented basketball, 
the Naismith League brings together TeenZone participants 
around this popular sport. Beyond the game, the support 
from the coaches fosters the development of key skills: 
team spirit, management of emotions, and self-confidence. 
The year 2025 marked the league's 12". season. 


© — 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


Alternative Suspension Becomes 
Back on Track by the YMCA 


Offered in 70 communities around the world, this school dropout prevention program Vf Oy 
has supported more than 60,000 students since 1999, helping them persevere. For its Pm 
25" anniversary, the Alternative Suspension program adopted a new, more positive and oa 
meaningful name—Back on Track by the YMCA—and a revamped brand identity. 


Designed to transform the risk of a Suspension into a constructive experience, Back on 
Track is a three- to five-day program that gives students the opportunity to take a step 
back, refocus, develop new skills, and prepare for a personalized and structured return 
to the classroom. 


WATCH THE 
EXPLANATORY 
VIDEO 


Youth Success in Numbers 


e 25,217 young people supported by programs that foster their success 

¢ 4,419 teens and young adults visited our 11 TeenZones, for a total of 
66,554 visits 

e 292 participants involved in the C-Vert environmental leadership 
program, offered in 6 service points 

e 128 players participated in the Naismith League's 12" season 

e 3,429 students received support in the Back on Track program 


VISIT THE BACK ON TRACK WEBSITE — 


A Year of Resilience |8 


Zz 


=z 


“It’s so precious that this place is 
unwaveringly supportive and open. It's 
able to bring the best out of people and 
help them grow into their most amazing 
selves. My time here has taught me to 
spread as much love as | can because 
there isnt enough in this world.” 


— Flora, Counsellor and Former Camper at Camp YMCA Kanawana 


The Magic of 
Kanawana 


Camp YMCA Kanawana is sO much more than a 
summer camp. Since 1894, it has been a caring, 
inclusive community where generations of 
campers have discovered new passions, developed 
new skills, and built confidence. 


Through a wide range of activities punctuated 
by adventure and creativity, Kanawana Is a 
transformative experience where campers can 
disconnect from their screens to connect with 
nature and their peers, in an English-speaking 
environment that fosters learning. Even the most 
introverted campers come out of their shells 
during shared moments around the campfire, 

in the woods, or on the water. 


For Flora, Kanawana was a turning point. First 
a camper and now a counsellor, she describes 
Kanawana as a place where confidence Is built 
little by little, day by day. From her first canoe 
trip—when she worried, ‘what do you mean 
we ll be paddling all day? Crazy!"—to becoming 
a counsellor, Kanawana offered her a space to 
grow, assert herself, and truly belong. 


A Year of Resilience |9 


Thanks to the generosity of its partners 
and donors, the Kanawana team was 
able to carry out some wonderful 
updates to camp, including adding a 


natural playground, an outdoor library, 
and a fishing area. 


Kanawana in Numbers 


¢ 862 campers experienced the magic of Kanawana 
e 58 families received financial assistance to help them send 
their kids to camp 


7 = make J ‘ : F x eT : 
| Da te s° 
ie i 
=a 
= ih a 
: : 


KAN AWARNA 


: Le Journal de Montréal 


Source 


A Warm Welcome 
and a Place 
to Regroup 


In December, in response to the exceptionally 
cold temperatures and the increased needs 
of people experiencing homelessness, the 
City of Montreal opened a temporary 
warming centre at the Downtown YMCA. 
This heated space, operated by St. John 
Ambulance, welcomed close to 135 people 
per evening, provinding them with a safe 
place to shelter, rest, and warm up for a night. 


This is a nice example that shows our ability to mobilize and help 
people facing social exclusion, complementing existing municipal 
Services. 


The Downtown YMCA is also an access point to other key 
resources and services, such as access to basic hygiene. More than 
6,000 showers are provided annually to 300 people, and demand 
iS Qrowing. 


Temporary Housing: To Find Your 
Bearings 


The YMCA Residences offer short-term housing services for people 

in transitory situations, newcomers to Canada, or people in need of a 
temporary place to stay. They provide a safe environment where individuals 
can find their bearings and where everyone Is treated with respect and dignity 
as they rebuild their lives. 


In 2025, the YMCA's temporary housing services welcomed: 


e 1,876 asylum seekers 
e 276 people waiting for a new place to live (April to December 2025). 


We would like to thank our partners PRAIDA (regional program for the settlement and 
integration of asylum seekers) and the Office municipal d'habitation de Montréal 
(OMHM) for their essential collaboration. 


A Special Place for Young Newcomers 
Aged 12 to 1/7 


The Welcome and Discovery Zone is an eight-week program geared 
towards teenagers who just moved to Canada. It aims to provide a 
stimulating and positive first experience of the city and promotes integration, 
fosters connections, and helps participants adapt to their new 
living environment. 

DISCOVER THE ZONES —=> 
This year, 229 teens participated in the program in one of 
six service points in Montréal. 


A Year of Resilience | 41 


Fulfilling Your Potential, 
Regardless of Background 


At the Y, we believe everyone has the potential to shine. People in 
precarious or transitory situations or those looking for stability can count 
On our assistance programs and intervention teams. 


Through listening, support, and referrals, we assist individuals whose 
paths are often marked by personal or social difficulties with a 
people-centred, respectful, and forward-looking approach. 


La Boussole: Making Social 
Reintegration Easier 


Since 1985, La Boussole has been assisting hundreds of adults with criminal 
records every year. The program helps them find employment or return 

to school through a wide range of tailored services, including preparatory 
training, one-on-one meetings, and access to essential tools such as 
computers. 


Additionally, our exclusion prevention team hosts an annual holiday lunch 
to celebrate the small and big progress made by participants throughout 
the year. In 2025, la Boussole helped 534 participants and celebrated its 
40" anniversary. 


THE TRANSITION PROGRAM: LEARN MORE — 


A Year of Resilience | 12 


SOLID oye RITE Litinérance auQuébec » Devenirmembre Savoiretexpertise v 
Québec 


Itinérance du 


if 


renvers sria.te 


hl 


Fy 7-vaT mtlal 


OS Ss 31 @)[: e. 


“The rise in homelessness requires 
concerted action. By signing the 
declaration, we are Clearly stating that the 
YMCAs of Quebec Is part of the solution 
and is committed to protecting the most 
vulnerable communities.” 


— Pascale Audette, President and CEO 


Taking a Stand to Reverse the 
Homelessness Trend 


We believe it is crucial to take a public stand on big social issues to raise 
awareness and find sustainable solutions. It is in this spirit that we signed 
Réseau Solidaritée Itinérance du Québec's joint declaration, which aims 
to reverse the homelessness trend. This is a clear call to action, based on 
solidarity and collective responsibility. 


Our team also participated in several 
awareness-raising initiatives, including a 
panel on law as a tool for social change 
and the Canadian Alliance to End 
Homelessness's annual conference. 


In 2025, our exclusion prevention programs 
helped and supported: 


« 1,910 people experiencing homelessness 
« 5,491 people with criminal records in the process of social reintegration 


Thank you to our partners: Aécroports de Montréal, CIUSSS de la Capitale- Nationale, 
CIUSSS du Centre-Sud-de-l'lle-de-Montréal, Reintegration Support Fund of the 
Montreal Detention Centre, ministere de la Justice, ministere de la Sécurité publique, 
ministere de l’Emploi et de la Solidarité sociale, Montréal Centre-ville, Reaching Home 
Program, the City of Montréal, and the City of Québec. 


© — 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


A Year of Resilience | 13 


Promoting Harmonious Cohabitation 
in Montreal's Boroughs 


Inaugurated this year, the Centre Sanaaq is a community centre 
offering a wide range of cultural and leisure activities and community 
spaces. Our outreach team was on site to foster connections with 
residents more vulnerable to exclusion and contribute to a harmonious 
coexistence in the neighbourhood and an inclusive 

and respectful atmosphere. 


In all, our team met with and supported 155 individuals, 
for a total of 1,769 interventions. 


In October, we carried out a pilot community outreach project in 
the Plateau-Mont-Royal Borough. Across eight sites, including the 
Plateau-Mont-Royal Library, our outreach workers built and 
maintained relationships of trust with people in the neighbourhood 
facing social exclusion, directing them to the appropriate resources. 


Our presence also meant we could raise awareness with library staff 
and users on the best practices for interacting with these communities. 
In all, our team met with and supported 89 individuals, for a total of 
492 interventions. 


= 
By eat Gi ~ See 2) Ce 
a (SS © ae vane ORS) 


- = 
» 
oF 


ee 
& 


y ie 


A Year 0 R O: ences 4 


Source : Arrondissement du Plateau-Mont-Royal (Facebook) ay ea 4 : — 


ai ae — E 
' * ——_— 


© — 


Active, Accessible, 
and Inclusive 
Facilities 


ene OF CONTENTS 


Every day, our fitness and aquatic activities bring people of all ages 
together, encouraging them to support one another and get active as a 
community. By focusing on consistency, fun, and the feeling of belonging, 
the YMCA contributes to building healthy lifestyle habits and fighting 
isolation. 


In 2015, Luc agreed to go to a cycling class with his spouse. That first 
class quickly became a regular habit: He developed a real fondness for 
the activity and decided to become a member. 


Over the years, Luc realized that the YMCA is so much more than 
just a place to work out. He describes it as a real catalyst for the 
neighbourhood—a place where community services and universally 
accessible activities meet and where a warm atmosphere, one that 
fosters interaction, reigns. 


Today, Luc goes to the YMCA five to six times per week. 4 | “Cardio is good far} our body vand mind. 
BEM CC SU se MeIe: My quality of life has greatly improved 
since | started coming to the Y.” 


— Luc, Member Since 2015, Notre-Dame-de-Grace YMCA 


A Year of Resilience | 45 


© — 


Certifications 
Save Lives 


eee Or CONTENTS 


Once again this year, the YMCA 
and certifications enabled man\ 
critical emergency respo 


certifications, 1,82 
equipped to 


the well-beir g C 


Thanks to the 
dedication of our 
teams, we supported 


Tare reltate TS 


950 
employees 
Our employees and volunteers enable us to create 
positive change together. @y 
A special thank you to the employees who, for years, 
carried out the programs that are no longer part of 590 
Our service offerings. Your legacy is significant. volunteers 


62% of our employees took the employee 
engagement survey and awarded an overall score 
of 76% to the organization, placing the Y in the 
“Healthy Organization” category, according to 
WorkWell. 


A Year of Resilience 


o 


Important 


hi 
2 
= 
= = z 
nniversaries : 
| . Y 4 = 
; apie ro) 
\ % A = 
. > -" ; = 
This year, we celebrated anniversaries that Cartierville YMCA C-Vert Program 
The opening of this centre was made possible thanks to community engagement and the This program, which aims to train the environmental leaders of tomorrow, has encouraged 
demonstrate the scope of Our Programs and support of key partners. Since its opening, the neighbourhood has been transformed: It has hundreds of young participants to reconnect with nature and develop their independence 
Spaces and the positive impact they have in our become safer and livelier, demonstrating our ability to create spaces where people can build and leadership skills, all while fostering a commitment to the environment. And it is still 
connections. | 
going strong! 


communities. 


~ 
© Back on track yea 


Vj NA 
Alternat ys ve 
Suspension on 


Back on Track by the YMCA La Boussole Program 

The Back on Track program, formerly known under the name Alternative Suspension, Since 1985, this program has been helping hundreds of adults with criminal records every year, 
continues to transform every unconventional journey into a springboard for development assisting them with their social reintegration by igniting their potential, treating them with dignity, 
and growth. Today, the program has over 55 service points, including seven abroad. and recognizing their ability to rebuild their lives. 


YMCA Saint-Roch 
The Saint-Roch YMCA, opened in partnership with the City of Québec, has quickly 


become a bustling hub where people from all walks of life connect. It is a welcoming, 
Caring space that meets the needs of the neighbourhood. 


YMCA Day Camps* The YMCA International Language School* 

For 40 years, our teams, driven by a deep sense of collective pride, brought our day camp programs to For many years, the expertise, commitment, and passion of our teams made the YMCA 

life. The camps’ educational and social value is undeniable. Every summer, our camps transformed the International Language School a unique place of learning and integration. As a result, thousands 
lives of thousands of children and families, leaving them with cherished memories that are sure to last of students were able to broaden their horizons by learning a new language. 

a lifetime. 


*This year, the YMCA International Language School shut down, and the day camp programs have been discontinued. However, the contributions of these programs are part of the YMCA‘s DNA. A Year of Resilience |18 


For the year ended December 31, 2025 | 


2025 2024 
2025 Financial Statements V4 
Revenue 46,870,996 62,2/2,6/6 | - 
The financial statements g 
E 56,226,676 61,570,622 6 
audited by Deloitte LLP ca : 
are available at ymcaquebec.org pee ” 
eficiency) excess of revenue over expenses before 
the following items (9,355,680) Leo 
_ Amortization, interest and financing costs (1,241,285) (1,026,065) 
To 
(Deficiency) excess over expenses before results from 
oa ' discontinued operations and the gain on disposal of (10,596,965) (524 011) 
sas A soomin as capital asset held for sale 
grants 
Gain on disposal of capital assets held for sale 2,059,128 5,284,583 
a, (Deficiency) excess of revenue over expenses from 
° discontinued operations (311,853) 930,854 
6% mvedoosetons jo 
Independent (Deficiency) excess of revenue over (8,849,690) 3,891,426 
eS Donations and spears 
(memberships, contributions 
courses, Camps, 
Y 2025 2024 
As of December 31, 2025 $ : 
Total assets 60,639,135 69,322,688 | 
Total liabilities 27347501 27181, 364 
Financial Assistance Program: | . 33 201634 AD 141 324 . 
$1M provided to 3,192 individuals (children, youth, cite | eeeeres | ee | — 
and adults) Total liabilities and net assets 60,639,135 69, 322,688 X 
$42,647 provided to the YMCA of Haiti, our overseas : : - nasil 
partner for 25 years Please note that the Foundation’s fiscal year ends on March 31. The financial statements will be published in a separate ee pi piatniy 
annual report, which will be available at the end of June 2026. Accredited 


A Year of Resilience |19 


Sound 
Governance 
Supported 
by Collective 
Leadership 


Volunteer involvement is at the heart of 


the YMCA‘s vitality and governance. 


Through their dedication, time, and expertise, 
the members of our board of directors elevate 
Our organization by supporting our decisions so 
that we can fully carry out our mission. Thank 
you to our local advisory committees, who 
offer a unique perspective on the needs of their 
neighbourhoods. 


Thanks to you, we can move forward ina 
clear, consistent, and responsible manner 


Board of 
Directors 


Francois Tremblay 
(National Film Board of Canada) 
Chair 


Diane Nyisztor 
(Company Administrator) 
First Vice-Chair 


Tara Mandjee 
(BRP) 
Second Vice-Chair 


Alain Giguere 
(Sandvik) 
Treasurer 


Jean-Charles Angers 
(Company Administrator) 
Board Member 


Denis Blackburn 
(Financial Horizons) 
Board Member 


Lise Brisebois 
(Kruger) 
Board Member 


Cadleen Désir 


(Centre de pédiatrie sociale Laval) 


Board Member 


Anne Duprat, CPA, CFA, CIA 
(KDC/ONE) 
Board Member 


Christine Dupuis 

(Mila - Quebec Artificial 
Intelligence Institute) 
Board Member 


Harold Fortin 
(AtkinsRéalis) 
Board Member 


Luiza Grecu 
(World Anti Doping Agency) 
Board Member 


Andrée Mayer-Périard 
(Réseau réussite Montréal) 
Board Member 


External Committee 
Member 


Patricia Alleyn 
(HR Committee) 


Local Advisory 
Committees 

CARTIERVILLE WEST ISLAND 
Catherine Limperis Nadine Ishak 
Trevor Pascall Shiela Larson 
Patricia Tansey Peter Warren 


Annie Tétreault 


NOTRE-DAME-DE-GRACE 
Halah Al-Ubaidi 

Shabira Lalani 

Lynda Porter 

Karen Staddon 


Daniel Villeneuve 


Honorary Members 


Nicole Brennan 
(2009) 


Feu Marcel Cdté 
(2010) 


Michael Novak 
(2012) 


Thank You 


We would like to acknowledge the 
contributions of our outgoing board 
members and thank them for supporting 
Our decisions over the past few years 
and for their commitment to our 
mission. 


Diane Nyisztor 
(2016-2026) 


Anne Duprat 
(2016-2026) 


Andrée Mayer-Peériard 
(2020-2026) 


Harold Fortin 
(2021-2026) 


Cadleen Désir 
(2021-2026) 


A Year of Resilience | 20 


The Foundation: 
Transforming Generosity 
Into Action 


Since 1984, the YMCAs of Québec Foundation has supported our 


organization's work by offering it the resources it needs to achieve its goals. 


Its mission: Engage the community to increase the social impact of 
the YMCAs of Québec in a sustainable way. 


Thanks to the trust and commitment of its donors, the Foundation makes 
Our essential programs and services available to thousands of kids, teens, 
families, and people in vulnerable situations, specifically through: 


e Back on Track, our academic perseverance program 

e Camp YMCA Kanawana, our summer camp in Saint-Sauveur 

e The C-Vert and Coop-Café leadership programs 

e Our financial assistance program, which makes many of our fee-based 
programs more accessible 


A Year of Resilience | 24 


A Modernized 
Web Platform to 
Better Serve Our 
Communities 


In November 2025, we launched a new website 

to better reflect our mission and make it easier to 
access Our programs and services. Clearer and more 
intuitive, it allows users to quickly find information, 
easily get in touch with us, and better understand 
our impact. 


YMCAQUEBEC.ORG —> 


Source : Libéo 


A Year of Resilience | 22 


© in] © ymcaquebec.org ; 


VILLE DE ~ 


Québec £2 | Montréal | QUEBEC 


Copyright 2026, the YMCAs of Québec 


