: 


Francois Tremblay, 
Chair of the Board 

of Directors 

The YMCAs of Québec 


Pascale Audette 
President and CEO 
The YMCAs of Québec 


Mario Bédard 

Chair of the Board 

of Directors 

The YMCAs of Québec 
Foundation 


Message from the 
President and Chairs 


United we stand. 


These words aptly describe 2024, the year we saw the full-scale implementation 
of our 2020-2025 strategic plan. From the outset of the plan, we have been 
focused on our ability to redefine ourselves so that we can tackle the 
challenges facing local communities more effectively. Sedentary lifestyles, 
isolation, the rising cost of living, the lack of affordable housing, growing mental 
health problems, and declining school success rates are just some of the 
pressing social issues close to our hearts. 


By looking at what has been accomplished to date, we can see that we have 
made great strides in our transformation, while keeping the communities we 
serve at the heart of our decisions. We have thus moved ahead with our real 
estate transformation while maintaining our programming and built up our 
mission-driven investment fund. 


But visions like these are not achieved without a strong, well-equipped, 
and well-trained team to face each challenge and judiciously seize new 
opportunities for development. In 2024, we laid the foundations to better 
position ourselves for years to come. This includes the launch of the Y's first 
awareness campaign in more than 10 years, snowing people that the Y is 
here—and will continue to be here—to help each person shine on. 


Our Foundation, which is also undergoing a transformation, has been crucial 
in the deployment of our programs and services. This year, it will publish its 
own annual report for the first time as its fiscal year has changed and is now 
ending on March 31. 


In fact, it is thanks to the fundraising efforts of our Foundation and the hard 
work and support of our donors, volunteers, partners, and teams that we 
were able to provide $740,000 in financial assistance this past year. It is 

this support that empowers us to pursue Our mission—on the front lines and 
behind the scenes—to ignite the potential in everyone. With you by our side, 
we Know that we can tackle the biggest challenges, and we are eager to Start 
on our next strategic plan and move forward together. 


Moving Forward Together 13 


Champion of people, 


heartbeat of communities 


In 2024, we witnessed incredible 4 
community and citizen mobilization; 
and for this we thank you! Without the 


F gt 
C, -* 
Zz. 


volunteers, donors, partners, and key 
individuals who, year after year, rally 
behind us to support the communities 
we hold dear, the Y could not benefit 
from sound governance and 
forward-looking general meetings. 
Over the past year, the teams at the Y 
stepped up their awareness-raising 
and representation efforts. Among 
others, they made their voices heard at 
events and symposiums dealing with 
the big issues of our time, and we can 
only conclude that the path the 
organization has mapped out is leading 
us to an inspiring destination. Here are 
a few key moments from the past year. 


¢ Annual general 
meeting (AGM). 


¢ Members of the board appoint 
Francois Tremblay as chair of the 
board of directors at the AGM. 


« Launch of Shine On, 
the YMCA’s new brand 


« “Welcome back” 
breakfast for our 
eastern territory team. signature. 


JANUARY FEBRUARY MARCH 


¢ Hooked on School Days 
activities with our teams 
and partners. 


Employees from the West 
Island YMCA participate in 
the Plaisirs d’hiver event. 


The YMCA for Peace event, 
organized by the Foundation, 
raises $375,000. 


Voting members unanimously 
approve the sale of the 
Saint-Laurent building at a 
special meeting. 


4| Moving Forward Together 


¢ Delegation of 10 YMCA 
employees at the Colloque de la 
réhabilitation sociale in Beaupré. 


¢ YMCA kiosk at the 
Ahuntsic-Cartierville 


borough celebration. 


APRIL 


¢ Official opening of the 
Coop Café at the Anjou 
high school, giving 
students the opportunity 
to develop their social and 
professional skills. 


MAY JUNE 


¢ Distribution of bicycles, 
helmets, and locks to 
participants in the 
C-Vert program. 


¢ Participation of the 
YMCAs of Québec at 
the National YMCA 
Conference in Halifax. 


¢ Participation in a popular 
science podcast on the 
realities of homelessness. 


* Completion of the Sandwich 
Challenge in our day camps, 
in partnership with Centre 
EPIC and Tremplin Santé. 


¢ Opening of the 
Peter-McGill Community 
House in the Downtown 
YMCA in Montréal. 


JULY AUGUST 


¢ Signing of a first agreement 
between the YMCA International 


Language School and ministére de 
Ulmmigration, de la Francisation 
et de U'Intégration. 


¢ 130° anniversary of 
Camp Kanawana. 


¢ The YMCAs of Québec 
delegation participates in 
the 2024 Etats généraux 
sur Uitinérance. 


¢ Launch of the YMCAs of 
Québec's first brand 
awareness campaign in 
more than 10 years. 


¢ Pascale Audette is appointed 
the new president and CEO 
of the YMCAs of Québec. 


SEPTEMBER OCTOBER NOVEMBER DECEMBER 


Presentation of the Y Mind 
program at the Cree Nation Youth CEO Stéphane 

Summit Building Bridges, Shaping Vaillancourt retires, after 
Futures. 22 years at the helm of the 


Presentation of the YMCA-YUL pier ne 
project at the Canadian Alliance * Member Appreciation Day. 
to End Homelessness Conference 


* Outgoing president and 


¢ Distribution of close to in Ottawa. 
1,000 backpacks to families 


in our communities as part 
of Opération Sac a dos. 


Opening of the Coop Café at the 
Antoine-de-Saint-Exupéry high school. 


About 20 employees participate in 
organizing Nuit des sans-abris activities 
in Montréal and Québec City, which 
includes a march and a clothing and 


coat drive. 
Moving Forward Together |5 


Closer to Communities 


We implemented a new operational structure that is 
organized by territory so that we can be more attuned and 
attentive to the needs of the people living in the territories 
we serve. By forging closer relationships with local 
stakeholders from different fields, we aim to strengthen 
our ties with each community and better address the 
unique realities of each neighbourhood. 


61 Moving Forward Together Moving Forward Together |7 


Our Transformation 
Continues 


In 2024, our desire to do things right fuelled many of our discussions: the shape 
our services should take, thinking beyond the bricks and mortar of our buildings, 
and opportunities to create collaborative groups to support the well-being 

of communities. We focused on our relationships with the stakeholders of our 
different sites. 


This included choosing a real estate broker to help us put our downtown Montréal 
building—located on Drummond and Stanley streets—up for sale, and to help us 
find a new site for our programs. 


We also participated in the creation of a multi-service community centre in 
Saint-Laurent’s Norgate neighbourhood. This project concretely demonstrates our 
collaborative vision for the future transformation of our site in Pointe-Saint-Charles 
and Notre-Dame-de-Grace. 


“This project will help maintain the range of 
community services offered in the Norgate 
neighbourhood, develop the autonomy of the 
organizations involved by pooling certain costs, 
and strengthen the social fabric of the community 
by building synergy and fostering mutual 
assistance with the different players in the field.” 


— Christine Durocher, President, Collectif 1745. 


The creation of Saint-Laurent’s multi-service community centre—the fruit of a collaboration 
between the YMCAs of Québec, Collectif 1745, and technical resource group Atelier habitation 
Montréal—has ensured residents can continue accessing high-quality family educational 
services, addressed the lack of space and accessibility to community facilities, and allowed 
the community kitchen to stay open. It has also enabled the Y to continue offering our youth 
programs, including Alternative Suspension, our academic perseverance program, C-Vert 
and C-Vert+, our environmental leadership programs, and our TeenZone. We are proud 

to note that the sale of the Saint-Laurent building, ratified unanimously at the Special General 
Meeting on February 20, 2024, and finalized on April 10, 2024, has truly reinforced the social 
fabric of the community and allowed the site to maintain its social vocation while offering 

a continuity of services to the community. 


8| Moving Forward Together 


Moving Forward Together |9 


Better Known, Bigger Impact 


In 2024, the YMCA made big strides to raise awareness about its impact. 
Part of a national strategy bringing together most of the YMCAs in the 
country, the organization's first awareness campaign was launched in the 
fall and aims to make the Y's mission shine even brighter. 


“By showing what is possible at the Y, we want people to discover who 
we really are: a charitable organization that puts human beings at the 
centre of its approach and that firmly believes every person should 
have the opportunity to let their potential shine,” explains Stacey 
Masson, Vice President of Marketing and Communications. “At the Y, 
we know that every step, no matter how small, can be a big victory and 
that we can accomplish greater things when we work together.” 


The campaign and “Let Your Potential Shine’ slogan emphasize how, 
with the help of the YMCA, people can discover all the things they can 
accomplish and the ways they can exceed their own expectations. At the Y, 
they can learn a new language, make friends at camp and stay active at the 
gym, find a group where they fit in, and get involved in the community as 
engaged citizens. Regardless of the obstacles along the way, the Y is there 
to support, guide, and help them fulfill their potential. 


Discover the campaign ee 


=< 
fe 


10] Moving Forward Together Moving Forward Together | 14 


Thank you to our partners: 

Batshaw Youth and Family Centres, 

Central Québec School Board, = 
Centre de services scolaire de at 
la Capitale, Centre de services scolaire <I 
de la Pointe-de-l'Ile, Centre de services 
scolaire de Montréal, Centre de 
services scolaire Marguerite-Bourgeo 
the City of Montréal and its boroughs 
English Montréal School Board, 7 
Institut régional de concertation 
en persévérance scolaire et 
réussite éducative de la 
Montérégie, Lester-B.-Pearson 
School Board, Montréal 
Hooked on School, 
Pathways to Education, 7 
Riverside School Board, 
Secrétariat ala jeunesse — 
du Québec. 


Through free programs, which include group activities, mentoring, exchanges, and more, young 
people can develop the skills needed to persevere and succeed in school, at work, and in life. 


ona 
oy 


Youth Success 


SELF-DISCOVERY, PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT, AND PAYING IT FORWARD 


Alexandre started participating in the Gatineau chapter of the C-Vert program, our 
environmental leadership program, in 2017. At the time, he was in high school and 
having problems socially, personally, and at school. He was looking for a new circle 
of friends and a place to spend his time. 


“I'd just mind my business and not really talk 

a lot to others, but by the end of the year, | was 
developing projects with other participants and 
| was feeling good. | learned to set a framework 
and plan things well, and today | still use some 
of the things | learned in C-Vert at university.” 


— Alexandre, University Student and C-Vert Youth Worker 


Alexandre continued in C-Vert+, the permanent arm of the program, which aims to develop 
participants’ interests, skills, and networks through individual and collective avenues 

of engagement—turning them into the environmental leaders of tomorrow. In C-Vert+, 

he had access to a stimulating, dynamic environment and got to know a friendly, 

caring youth worker. Having someone there who gives you sound advice but also lets 

you find solutions on your own so you can bring a project to fruition is priceless. 


Today, Alexandre embodies the very value he was exposed to most in the program: caring. 
As a youth worker, it is now his turn to offer high school students leadership advice. 
And according to him, the students have as much of an impact on him as he does on them. 


In 2024, 28,550 young people participated in 
programs to help them succeed. 
nnn + 264 participants in the C-Vert program. 


4,591 young people came into our TeenZones for a total 
of 69,830 participations, including 52 young people in our 
Diversion Zone for youth with autism spectrum disorder. 


In total, 3,200 students participated in the Alternative 
Suspension program. 


117 young people were supported by the Y Mind program 
which aims to reduce the negative effects of anxiety and stress. 


~ 12. | Moving Forward Together 


(a 
' Hy \ 


a 


Moving Forward Together |13 


Camps and Outdoor 
Education 


In 2024, our day camp family grew with the addition of two new camps: 

the YMCA Concordia Science and Engineering Camp and the Adventure 

at Kanawana Camp. Through a range of different programs, the science and 
engineering camp offers participants opportunities to explore chemistry, 
space, artificial intelligence, and even the environment. As for Adventure at 
Kanawana, it offers participants all the benefits of fully immersing themselves 
in the great outdoors on our gorgeous summer camp site in Saint-Sauveur, 
but in a day camp format. 


Our current camp programming was also enhanced in 2024. The YMCA 
Concordia Fine Arts Camp continues to unlock artistic talent while the 
Pierrefonds-Roxboro camp offered participants aged 12 to 17 a place to fully 
expend their energy with the Passion for Sports program. Whether through 
outdoor activities, artistic activities, or science experiments, campers can 
discover what they truly love and shine bright. 


“| make sure campers have an 
unforgettable experience, a place where 
they belong, and a person they can trust. 


— Soraya, Day Camp Counsellor 


In 2024, 3,556 kids and teens participated 
in the Y's various camps. 


2,774 participants in our day camps, including 


@eeee080 : 
AA AAA 93 campers in our Companion program. 


782 kids and teens enjoyed a stay in the great 
outdoors at Camp Kanawana. 


14] Moving Forward Together 


Through the support of caring adults, specifically activity instructors and leaders and 
support staff for kids and teens with diverse needs, participants in our day camps and 
summer camp build confidence and develop their autonomy. 


e, a supervised da 
12 to 17, which offe 


-or teens such as Bhi 
Canada from Indi 


ne, he met tee! 
same thing as him, and he 
next summer, Bh i 
It goes without 
other firsts and c 


174 young people partici 
Discovery Zone progr. 

required the opening of two ne 
The YMCA Residences welcome 
situations. 6,981 asylum seeke 
were housed in our resi 
Programme régional d'accueil e 
d’asile (PRAIDA). 


16 | Moving Forward Together 


Preventing Exclusion 


LOSING HIS WAY AND FINDING IT AGAIN WITH OUR PLANNING 
FOR PRISON RELEASE PROGRAM 


A serious road accident can turn everything upside down. For Martin,* it sent him on 

a downward spiral: he lost his bearings, started having insomnia, began using, lost his job, 
and eventually committed a crime. This all led to his incarceration at the Montréal Detention 
Centre (Bordeaux Prison), where he spent eight months before serving the remainder of his 
sentence in the community. 


To avoid ending up on the streets, he turned to the Planning for Prison Release program, 
where he met Isabel, his caseworker. Together, they came up with a plan for his 
reintegration. However, when he was released, he surrounded himself with people from 
his past and his bad habits caught up with him. It was not until he had lost everything 

and was living on the streets, that he set out to find Isabel through the YMCA. 


What followed was a process to access temporary housing, complete a residential 
detoxification program, find a new social circle, get his finances in order, and move 
into subsidized housing, not to mention the difficulty of navigating the various levels 
of courthouse bureaucracy. 


“Isabel was really at the heart of my 
rehabilitation. She's at the heart of my entire 
support network since | got out of prison.” 


— Martin, on his journey and the help he received from his caseworker 


As for Isabel, she is so proud of Martin. He hit rock bottom and climbed out with 
determination and by using the resources available to him. “Martin agreed to let 
the caseworkers from the different support services share information. That way, 
we could build a stronger network around him and ensure he didn't have to repeat 
his story or relive his trauma every time.” 


Today, Martin is often asked to speak about his experience to raise awareness and 
help organizations develop projects that align with the needs of formerly 
incarcerated people and people experiencing homelessness. 


In 2024: 


©eoeee 6,192 people received support through our social reintegration and 
FePrT ; homelessness assistance programs, including 270 in the Planning for 
. Prison Release program. 


*The name Martin is a fictitious name intended to protect the participant's identity at his request. 


Our partners: 
rts de Montréal, 
itale-Nationale, 


Ville de Montréal, 
Ville de Québec. 


Isabel Gervais 
Senior Advisor, 
Prevention of Social Exclusion 


The Y intervenes with people from marginalized groups, in situations of vulnerability, or at risk 
of homelessness to offer them solutions to social disengagement. By having access to social 
reintegration support services and resources that aim to empower, such as job search assistance, 
these people can start their self-actualization journey. 


cen A 


ie 


18 | Moving Forward Together 


’ 5 “J - oe . ' 3 q * 7 


‘Moving Forward Together |19 


Adopting Healthy Lifestyle Habits 


At the age of 42, Anne-Laurence needed a change. She knew she had to do something. But 
rather than go on a diet, she decided to get active. From all the options out there, she decided 
to sign up for private training with Genevieve at the Cartierville YMCA, a centre she was familiar 
with through her son's swim lessons but also one that gives back to the community. 


“I got really lucky with Genevieve, because 
we started off slowly. She told me all | had to do 
was show up and she would handle the rest.” 


— Anne-Laurence, Mother and Member 


This collaborative approach between staff and participants in our fitness and aquatic 
activities is something that permeates all our programs. But it is especially present in 
our private training, where our personalized support is tailored to the specific needs 
of each person. So when Anne-Laurence progresses to a new stage in her training, 
Genevieve is right by her side to celebrate with her. 


For Anne-Laurence, the Y's intergenerational environment is what makes her feel 

at ease moving forward in her fitness journey, whether at the gym or in the pool. 

She sees it in her son's swim lessons, where instructors focus on safe swim progressions, 
as the sounds of laughter from kids and older swimmers alike echo off the bright walls 
around them. 


As for private training, Geneviéve's holistic approach has helped Anne-Laurence 
achieve her first goal: to feel good about herself. Now that is something to 
be proud of! 


In 2024, 30,660 people got moving with the Y! 


eeee0e0 Fitness and Aquatic Activities 

AA AAAS + §,100 hours of private training. 

md 14,156 POLY, MULTY and OMNY members. 

= 5,654 kids learned to swim. 

Integrated Recreation Program 

The Y ensured 160 people with intellectual or physical 
disabilities could participate in recreational activities thanks 
to the support of Centraide. 


Seniors in Action 
More than 700 older adults participated in this program, 
which is tailored to their needs and offers opportunities to 
socialize, help one another, volunteer, and meet people 
of all ages. 


t 


Moving Forwal gether | 21 


> 
~~ 


20] Moving Forward Together 


can integrate be 
elps me better under 
nd allows me to inte 
people around m 


d Newcomer 


ration into the Province of Québe 
: people from all walks of life, with 
t creates this rich environment w 
understand the culture and pers; 


hat the teachers at the Y care and appreciat 

ft him feeling motivated, as he knows tha 
s or not, can access this service. Learning a ne 
2 surrounded by a committed and united co 
ds sum it up nicely: “You can’t progress on yo 
rich, motivating learning environment.” 


781 people learned new skills tl 
t the Y. 


- 
6 - 


= > 
. 7 
~*~ a mA 
* ¥. — 
y 
To unlock their full potential, people need a place where they feel comfortable learning a new 
language, perfecting professional skills, or obtaining a certification for their own pleasure or 
to advance their career, all at a pace that matches their needs. We offer a wide range of language 


courses and swim instruction, first aid, fitness, and camp counsellor certifications and training, all 
recognized in their respective fields. 


6,411 registrations in our language courses for youth and adults, 
representing a total of 4,096 students. 


3 
Signing of a first agreement with the ministére de l'Immigration, 
de la Francisation et de l'Intégration. Thank you to our partner. 


2,230 participants were certified through our fitness, first aid, 
and CPR training programs. 


Moving Forward Together | 23 


At the Y, You Can Be the Spark 


To take care of others, you first need to take care of yourself. At the Y, we feel that 
it is important that staff and volunteers can fulfill their own potential, so that they 
can then better support the community. 


Luce Boulianne, a Kinesiologist by training, knows a little something about this. 
She has been working at the Y for 16 years now, starting as a conditioning room 
and gymnasium coordinator. As a single parent, she appreciates the work-life 
balance the Y offers: flexible hours, the opportunity to put her daughter in day 
camp during the summer or in swim lessons at the very centre where she works, 
and being able to bring her to class on the weekends where she can sit at the back 
and draw while Luce teaches the next generation of fitness instructors. 


“The organization has always listened to 
my needs. I've had the chance to grow 

in challenging positions, while staying d 
connected to what motivates me: » : 
making a difference.” -_ a 


— Luce Boulianne, Mother and Assistant Director, Territories Operations 


- v 


After working as a coordinator and then an assistant director at the 
Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Cartierville, Westmount, and Notre-Dame-de-Grace 
YMCAs, Luce is now the assistant director of territory operations and is happy 
to have found an employer whose values reflect her own. 


MENTORING PROGRAM j 


Our mentoring program is a testament to our commitment to the next generation. 
The program pairs employees aged 18 to 30 with more senior and experienced staff 
members at the Y. Mentors can share their expertise with an employee who is eager \ 
to learn, while mentees view this as an opportunity to excel. 


In 2024: 

@e0eee8 $j.« 62% of our employees took the employee engagement TAKING CARE OF OUR TEAMS WITH OUR HEALTH AND WELLNESS PROGRAM 

| ah A survey and awarded an overall score of 79% to the 7 A bit ao ' Prt en ee ues Ea 
| organization, placing the Y in the "Healthy Organization" oO support employees lireren Imensions Of wettiness, we Imptemented various pnysical, mental, 


and financial health initiatives throughout the year. Some examples include: a day of skating for 
employees, volunteers, and their families; Employee Appreciation Day; and conferences and webinars 
(stress and anxiety, nutrition, financial literacy). 


category according to WorkWell. 


24 | Moving Forward Together Moving Forward Together | 25 


THANK YOU DEAR Y! 


When | started at the Y in 2002, | never imagined 

the profound and transformative impact the YMCA 
would have on me. The values and people who shape 
this exceptional organization became a part of me, 
bit by bit, and have made me the best person | could 
hope to become. 


The Y opened my eyes. | met extraordinary and dedicated people here, all driven 
by a single goal: to change people's lives. What a privilege it was for me to support 
these outstanding teams for 22 years! 


These teams are the architects of the Y's impact in the community. They are 

the employees and volunteers who work directly with youth, people in vulnerable 
situations, or people looking to acquire news skills. They are the people who 
work behind the scenes or who sit on the board of directors or on our advisory 
committees. And all of them have made my second career at the YMCA deeply 
meaningful. 


| consider myself extremely lucky to have found an organization whose mission 
perfectly matched my passion for contributing to people’s development. | have 
fulfilled the role entrusted to me to the best of my ability: that of developing our 
YMCA to its full potential and ensuring its longevity. 


The Y is driven by resilient, competent people, who fully deserve your unwavering 
support, dear donors, volunteers, and partners. Your YMCA is in good hands, 


and will remain so for a long time to come. 


Thank you for the trust you placed in me and long live the YMCAs of Québec! 


Fy Yullantone—— 


Stéphane Vaillancourt 
Outgoing President and CEO 
2002-2024 


261 Moving Forward Together cribs 0 ea Moving Forward Together |27 


>» 


Discover the Foundation 


Since 1984, the YMCAs of Québec’s Foundation has been supporting 
the work of our organization by providing concrete ways for us to achieve 
our goals. 


With values rooted in engagement, solidarity, and inclusion, the Foundation 
plays a key role in the organization's philanthropic development and helps thousands 
of families and children access a host of community programs. 


Every year, the Foundation acts as a vehicle of change, implementing initiatives 
that aim to reduce inequalities in communities because everyone deserves to shine. 


Thanks to the generosity of our loyal donors, our Foundation supports many 
key programs in the communities we serve, notably: 


¢ Alternative Suspension, our academic perseverance program 

e Our day camps 

e Camp Kanawana, our summer camp in Saint-Sauveur 

¢ Our financial assistance program, to improve access to our paid services 


Transform a Life 


Give everyone the opportunity to access our programs. 


281 Moving Forward Together Moving Forward Together 


Volunteer 
Leadership 
224k 


Thank you to our board and 
committee members who 
donate countless hours to 

giving back to their community. 

A big thank-you to the loca 

advisory committees, which 

present an opportunity 

for members and loca 
organizations to offer their 
unique perspective on loca 
and community needs and 
contribute to our decision- 
making processes. 

We would like to highlight 
their exceptional commitment. 
Together, let's build a brighter 
tomorrow for our communities! 


30] Moving Forward Together 


The YMCAs 
of Québec 
Board of Directors 


Jean-Charles ANGERS 
(Company Administrator) 
Board membe 


Nancy AUDETTE 
(Cogeco) 
Board membe 


Denis BLACKBURN 
(Financial Horizons) 
Board membe 


Lise BRISEBOIS 
(Kruger) 
Board membe 


Cadleen DESIR 
(Centre de pédiatrie sociale Laval) 
Board membe 


Anne DUPRAT, CPA, CFA, CIA 
(KDC/ONE) 
Board membe 


Christine DUPUIS 
(Caribou) 
Board membe 


Harold FORTIN 
(AtkinsRéalis) 
Board membe 


Alain GIGUERE 
(Consultant) 
Treasurer 


Tara MANDJEE 
(BRP) 
Second vice-chair 


Andrée MAYER-PERIARD 
(Réseau réussite Montréal) 
Board member 


Diane NYISZTOR 
(Company Administrator) 
First vice-chair 


Frangois TREMBLAY 
(National Film Board) 
Chair 


External Committee 
Members 


Patricia Alleyn (HR Committee) 
Luiza Grecu (Evolution Committee) 


Isabelle Perreault (HR Committee) 


Waguih Rabbat (Evolution Committee) 


Local Advisory 


Committees 


CARTIERVILLE 
Catherine Limperis 
Trevor Pascall 
Patricia Tansey 
Annie Tétreault 


NOTRE-DAME-DE-GRACE 


Halah Al-Ubaidi 
Shabira Lalani 
Lynda Porter 
Karen Staddon 
Daniel Villeneuve 


SAINT-ROCH 


Sébastien Boulanger 
Eric Boulay 
Pierre-Olivier Brassard 
Mario Cété 

Lynda Verret 


WEST ISLAND 


Nadine Ishak 
Shiela Larson 
Peter Warren 


Honorary 
Members 


Nicole Brennan 
(2009) 


Feu Marcel Coté 
(2010) 


Michael Novak 
(2012) 


Financial statements 2024 


The financial statements 
audited by Deloitte LLP 
areavailable at 
ymcaquebec.org 


33” 


isonet revenues 
(memberships, courses, 
camps, rent, etc.) 


Statement of operations 
For the year ended December 31, 2024 


Revenue 


Expenses 


Excess of revenue over expenses 
before amortization, interest 
and financing costs 


Amortization, interest and financing costs 


Excess of revenue over expenses before 
extraordinary items 


Disposal and write-off of capital assets 


Excess of revenue over expenses 


Statement of financial position 
As at December 31, 2024 


Total assets 


Total liabilities 
Net assets 


Total liabilities and net assets 


IMPORTANT INFORMATION: 
Please note that the Foundation’s fiscal year now ends on March 31. The financial statements 
will be published in a separate annual report, which will be available at the end of June 2025. 


64” 


Service agreements 
and government 


grants 


3” 


Donations and contributions 


2024 2023 

$ 5 
72,787,575 69,981,371 
71,032,658 64,336,828 
1,754,917 5,644,543 
(1,148,074) (1,437,032) 
606,843 4,207,511 
3,284,583 504,295 
3,891,426 4,711,806 
2024 2023 

$ $ 
69,322,688 69,715,180 
27,181,364 31,465,282 
42,141,324 38,249,898 
69,322,688 69,715,180 


ave 
> 4 
Tv 


Agréé 
IMAGINE CANADA 
Accredited 


Moving Forward Together | 34 


In 2024, The YMCAs 

of Quebec reached 

and supported 

80,100 people, including 
41,8350 young people. 


$740,153 in financial 
assistance provided to 
5,402 kids, teens and adults 
right here at home. 


© @ 


1,260 370 $36,477 


employees volunteers in financial 
assistance provided 
to the Haiti YMCA 


Al er. ‘ a ) 
fe @ Shine On Mb Bette’ 
om ae" « Of Québec 


183 144 32 ymcaquebec.org 
intervention intervention intervention intervention 
sites in total sites in Sheeic Piece aur ( 3) in) } © 
Québec Canada 


ao 
nue be “Namah i 
Québec 22 | Montréal | QueBec | © 


32.1 Moving Forward Together 


