The YN 


YMC 


Fou 


Cover: Aisha, TeenZone Youth Worker 


inclusion 
respect 
solidarity 
boldness 
caring 
performance 


Nancy Audette 
Chair of the Board of Directors 
The YMCAs of Québec 


Claudie Imbleau-Chagnon 
President 
YMCAs of Québec Foundation 


Stéphane Vaillancourt 
President and CEO 
The YMCAs of Québec 


This past year was another challenging one for all 

of us, as individuals, organizations, and as a society. 

It was a year of shuffling and reshuffling as programs 
and services shut down and reopened. Year 2 of the 
pandemic forced us all to become masters in the art 

of adaptation. If one thing was now clear, it was how 
fast the world around us could change. And, in turn, 
how we had to change to meet new needs, new habits, 
and new ways of living. 


These profound changes forced us to adapt, 

building up our resilience to get through these 
difficult times and better prepare for the challenges 
that lay ahead. As individuals and families continued 
to struggle through the pandemic, the Y focused on 
providing the services and tools to help them cope— 
childcare and day camp programs, financial assistance, 
stimulating kids and youth activities, social inclusion 
services, sports, fitness and aquatic activities, food 
assistance, and many others. Because for us, these are 
the very building blocks of resilience and well-being. 
And more than ever, we were reminded that building 
resilience requires more than just the right tools. 

We also need a strong and caring support network. 


In 2021, we once again witnessed an incredible show 
of solidarity. Our committed staff and volunteers 
worked relentlessly day after day to support our 
members and participants, our generous donors 
gave in record amounts, and our partners, some old, 


some new, lent their support to help 
us transform, so we could continue 

to have a positive impact far beyond 
our walls and beyond the pandemic. 


Community support has carried 

us through the years, and today, 

you show us what it means to be 
part of the big Y family—a caring 
community where everyone is 
welcome and encouraged to thrive 
and fulfill their potential. You showed 
us that together it is always easier to 
rise to the challenge. 


Ricing ihaithallonnce 
Rising to the Challenge 


Ahead of its time, 
the YMCA starts 
offering sports and 
fitness activities. 


Opening of 

Camp YMCA Kanawana, 
Quebec's first overnight 
summer camp. 


: j 4 
) r) — tats ty 
TAGS ott TTT TT 


Night school classes open to all, 
including women and immigrants. 


yucy... CPening of the 
\ mm International 
Language School. 


Pour apprendre 


le francais 
Creation of youth centres 


Opening of daycares, preschools, 
and employment services. 


and after-school programs ed eS 


Launch of the first national swimming 
instruction program. 
to support working parents. 


COVID-19 pandemic hits et 
Canada and YMCA springs 

into action with virtual 
programs, online support, 
emergency services and more. 


Camp YMCA Kanawana builds 
sustainable facilities and introduces 
programs to strengthen 
environmental education. 


YMCA Residence begins welcoming 
asylum seekers and refugees. 


Alternative Suspension is created 
to help prevent at-risk students 
from dropping out of school. 


Rising to the Challenge 


2021 at a Glance 


Offered 
OUTDOOR AND VIRTUAL 
FITNESS CLASSES 


to support members beyond 
our walls and during gym closures. 


Provided 337 at-risk youth with 
the opportunity to participate 
in outdoor activities through the 


BOUGE TON ETE 

project, helping them maintain healthy 
lifestyle habits and mitigating the 
impacts of the summer learning loss. 


Supported close to 1,700 youth 
through engaging and empowering 


activities in our TEENZONES. 


Expanded our DAY CAMPS 
to Pierrefonds-Roxboro, reaching 
some of the most underserved 
communities in Canada. 


Signed an agreement with 
the City of Pointe-Claire to 


TRANSFORM 

the YMCA building into a municipal 
sports and community centre with 
integrated YMCA programming. 


6 | Rising to the Challenge 


Launched the innovative 


WEB WALKERS 


program to reach vulnerable 
youth online and be on the 
lookout for dangerous situations. 


Provided 129 families with the 
tools to support their children in 
elementary school through the 


ECOLE-FAMILLE- 
COMMUNAUTE project. 


Created our new 


SOCIAL REINTEGRATION 
AND INCLUSION sector 


to better serve the most vulnerable 
members of society and those 
most impacted by the pandemic. 


Offered 
BASIC SERVICES AND 
PSYCHOSOCIAL SUPPORT 


to over 600 people experiencing 
homelessness in downtown Montreal. 


Hosted the 2021 Peace 
Medals Gala celebrating 


DIVERSITY AND 
SOCIAL HARMONY. 


Vv 


170 Years Young: 
A Story of Transformation 


This year, we celebrated our 170" anniversary. 


As we look back, we see how our story has been 


shaped by constant transformation and by 
our desire to meet the needs of communities. 
As society evolved and social needs and issues 
changed, so did our programs and approach. 


THEN... 


In 1853, barely two years old, we created 
our first outreach program to help those 
less fortunate. Today, we offer various 
programs that focus on skills development 
and empowerment. 


In 1894, we opened Camp Kanawana. 
Today, Camp Kanawana is one of only two 
green camps in the province and our day 
camps are renowned for their commitment 
to including children with different needs. 


In the 1960s, our social workers 
pioneered frontline work to help young 
people struggling with addiction. 
Today, Toxico, our substance abuse 
prevention program, reaches over 
4,000 at-risk youth in 19 high schools. 


In the 1970s, our childcare services met 
the growing needs of working parents. 
Today, our youth programs help support 
kids inside and outside the classroom. 


In 1999, Alternative Suspension started 
in one school, in one neighbourhood. 
Today, the model has been expanded 
across Canada and internationally with 
sites in Ireland, France, and the UK. 


..-AND NOW 


In 2021, we also started to see 
some of the pandemic’s longer- 
term effects: disproportionate 
learning loss from school closures, 
increases in homelessness, food 
and financial insecurity, substance 
abuse and mental health issues, 
and domestic violence. 


As society struggles to address 
current needs, we must look to the 
future and prepare for the aftermath 
as communities will rely more on 
organizations such as the Y. 


This means focusing 
our energy on where 
we have the most impact. 


It means making tough decisions, 
strengthening relationships, and 
working with key stakeholders. 

It means finding ways to take 
services outside our centres to 
increase access and adapt to local 
needs. We can only achieve this 

if we are willing to change. So that 
the Y continues to be a place where 
people come to transform. As it 

has been for 170 years and as it is 
committed to being for the next 170! 


“You just get to 
make friendships, 
and someone 
who would be 
there for you 

to support you 

at all times...” 


—Tolin, PIVOT program participant 


‘IMPACT 


The PIVOT program youth workers integrate the 
school settingito act as an extension of its internal 
support system. They identify the needs of the 

/ participants and connect them to the resources they 
need in the community, complementing the school 
services, and expanding their support network. 


This helps participants build confidence, succeed 
in. school and in life, and go on to contribute to 
building stronger and more resilient communities. 


Rising to the Challenge | 9 


13,000 hours 
of academic support 
provided to high school students 


15,000 participations 
in TeenZone activities 
for 12- to 17-year-olds 


+ 4,000 students 

reached through our Toxico 
substance abuse prevention 
workshops and 293 individual 
follow-ups 


+ 450 youth 
received individualized online 
psychosocial support 


330 teens 

broadened their horizons 
through cultural exchanges 
and the C-Vert environmental 
engagement program 


families 


+ 4,000 registrations 
in our adult and youth 
language courses 


+ 1,500 families 
received food assistance and 
1,150 school kits were distributed 


150 families 
benefitted from 
psychosocial support 


1,112 kids 
attended our day camps 


62 kids 

with different needs and abilities 
participated in our day camp 
Companion program 


129 families 

received tools to support their 
children through elementary 
school thanks to the Ecole-Famille- 
Communaute program 


380 parent-child relationships 
maintained through our 
Supervised Access Rights program 


241,543 visits 
in our 5 centres, despite 
months of temporary closures 


430 swimming sessions 
for a total of 3,870 private 
and group lessons 


107 fitness courses 
offered in outdoor settings 


600 seniors 
stayed active through our fitness, 
art, and recreational activities 


+ 400 people 
reached through our activities 
in parks 


968 children, teens and adults 
received financial assistance 
removing financial barriers that 
prevented them from participating 
in our activities and programs 


+4,500 


people 


+ 1,600 people 
experiencing homelessness 
received support 


750 seniors 
reached online, in-person 
or over the phone 


550 people 
with criminal records helped 
with their social reintegration 


160 people 

with disabilities or 
neurodevelopmental disorders 
participated in our activities 


1,800 people 

oriented to 250 community 
organizations so they could 
work off fines through 
compensatory hours 


150 teen and adult offenders 
worked to repair the harm 
done by their actions 


Meet Daniel 


Wanting to work out on his 
lunch break, Daniel joined the 
YMCA over 20 years ago. He 
soon discovered that the Y was 
so much more than a gym and 
saw the important role it plays 
in his neighbourhood. 


logue employee 


For him, the local Y is a real 
community hub; a place where 


people of all ages come 
together to socialize, participate 
in activities, make friends, and 
find the support they need to 
succeed. 


Meet Mikah 


While living in a social reintegration 
centre, Mikah was told he had to 
take part in reintegration programs 
and workshops. Strong-willed and 
independent, he decided to find a 
program on his own; one that would 
meet his individual needs. 


So when Daniel and other 
members feared that the 
Notre-Dame-de-Grace YMCA's 
closure because of the pandemic 
could become permanent, the 
group spoke up to express how 
much their Y means to them. 
They wanted to show their 
support for the centre and help YY , a J 
ensure its continued presence Fig iy, a May? He discovered the YMCA's La Boussole 
in the neighbourhood. Gs Yi, “Giae tae age j program, which helps people with 
‘iy y , criminal records in their job search or 

assists them in going back to school. 
a IMPACT But Mikah found a lot more at the Y. 

For him, La Boussole was a spring- 
board for discovering his passion... 
in his own way and at his own pace. 
Today, he has completed his high 
school credits, works at the Downtown 


Today, thanks to our members' 

support, the Notre-Dame-de- 

Grace YMCA has reopened its yy 
health and fitness activities and 

continues to support youth, 

families, and the community The YMCA encourages individuals to actively partici- At the YMCA, we believe that every person has a 
through a wide range of pate in society and contribute to their community. place in the community and we are committed to 


roarams. And Daniel continues We believe that individual empowerment gives making sure they are heard and valued. By providing : >. 
a eae at the local and people the means to better understand and master specialized and adapted support, we help ex-offenders a people Seber <CIng 
municipal levels, fighting for the different issues that affect them, and therefore and people experiencing homelessness reintegrate vale a al, to ia a 
what he thinks is important and allows them to act as individuals and as part of a into the community, build their self-confidence, develop university Coat cate In substance 
hoping tdimaheleneiaerentcs community to improve their own living conditions. new skills, and reach their goals. Recidivism rates are abuse counselling, and hopes 
: In addition to building self-esteem, it gives thema reduced and vulnerable individuals become engaged to become an outreach worker. 
sense of purpose and positively affects their health members of their community. 


and well-being. 


Discover his story: 
communities.ymcaquebec.org communities.ymcaquebec.org 


Discover his story: 


What incredible support phe SC HORERY 
we Saw again from our PEACE LAUREATE 


Michele Taina Audette 


community this year! MEDALS: ber Secure pe 


and art education, Michéle 
Taina Audette received an 


Whether it was through charitable gifts, donations of food and The YMCA Peace Medals Gala was back honorary doctorate from 
essential items, volunteering, participation in our fundraising events, as an in-person event and was streamed live, the University of Montréal in 
or even just words of encouragement, your generosity, trust, for the very first time, on our social media, 2018 for her political and social 
and support have meant so much to us and the people we serve. with more than 1,700 views! engagement defending the 
i i ights of Indi : 
Thank you for helping us bring As always, the event celebrated individuals and Heh lintel alesis ent 
our mission and impact to life. groups who work tirelessly to build a more peaceful, She was president of Quebec 
harmonious, inclusive, and diverse world. This year, Native Women and Native 
we also sought to highlight their commitment to Women’s Association of Canada 
The pandemic context encouraged us to The Challenge also highlighted nen ~ ee oft Ummes sucha ee ae tel Puen teed or ile 
; : os and violence against women. Thanks to the generosity National Inquiry into Missing 
turn our yearly one-day YMCA Challenge how important physical activity 
. : : ; ; ‘ of our major partners, 200 guests and other donors, and Murdered Indigenous 
into a virtual month-long challenge with is for us all, especially kids. After wa talced $288.000 far our yourhioraarams W d Girl 
a unique twist. Over 600 kids, adults, months of lockdown, cancelled : y Prog ° clad a 
and families from Montreal and Quebec sports and activities, kids really Congratulations to our incredible laureates. Since the fall of 2019, she is 


embraced three daily challenges focusing = needed to get moving. 
on physical health, mental health, and 
collective health. 


Your work is a true inspiration! senior advisor on Reconciliation 
and Indigenous Education at 


Laval University. On July 29, 2021, 
Ms. Audette was appointed 


And oh my, did people ever get creative! to the Senate of Canada. 


From morning meditation to lunchtime 
virtual Zumba to neighbourhood cleanups 


Dozens of 


children like Dr. Stanley Vollant 
Olivia and 


and daily calls to friends living alone, Ea ay ee i Peace > 
participants really rose to the challenge. ane NMCE La voix des jeunes compte Cc 
We especially loved the three goals set oe bh Challenge Youth Peacemaker =a 
by Sean, our Regional Director of Camps: er The shicldiot Athena 
- Walking 10,000 steps every day And thanks to our incredible CMe Me MeN A AEETE = 
- Forest bathing (immersing myself participants and donors, we raised Equité 25? — Equity Fund WV 

in the sights and sounds of nature). $63,000 for our camps, providing for Diversity and Inclusion — 
» Raising money to help children families with financial assistance Caisse de dépot et 

fron lowemcome tamiliesandichilaren and welcoming campers with placement du Québec 

with diverse abilities join the YMCA different needs and abilities into Company for Peace 


our Companion program. Décoloniser I’histoire 


Coup de coeur 


camp community 


YMCA Discover their stories: 
C al A L peace.ymcaquebec.org 


LENGE 


14 | Rising to the Challenge 


22 


JUNE 1 


SPECIAL 
THANK YOU 


to our major donors 


thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! 
thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! 
thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! 
thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! 
thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! 
thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! 
thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! 
thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! 
thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! 
thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! 
thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank vou! thank you! thank you! 


thank you! thank Arbor Day vou! thank you! Beneva: thank you! thank you! 
sion i — Foundation - Louis-Marie ees aay Better Narrative - The Birks poet ahs ae 
thank you! __ Beaulieu, FCPA, FCA, C. Dir. Family Foundation Blakes*BLG: TY you 
thank you! Louise Beauregard & Richard Payette - BMO Financial Group-Bombardier* thank you! 
thank you! Brian Bronfman Family Foundation - CAE + Caisse Desjardins de Québec + thank you! 
thank Jean Campeau & Genevieve Marcon: Canadian Tire Jumpstart Charities -Canam you! 
thank Group: CDPQ: Céline & Jacques Lamarre Foundation: Charles RiversCN-Cogeco: Y ° ¥! 
: : : : ,  Cogir Real Estate - Peter & Elizabeth Coughlin» Cromwell» Hudson's Bay Company » - : i 
‘bank Davies - Desjardins - Estate of Alfred Fred Muth: Fasken - Fédération des caisses a ae 4 


thank you! Desjardins du Québec: Fondation de la Pointe-de-I'ile- The Foundation of Greater thank you! 
thank you! Montréal-GDI Integrated Facility Services -iA Financial Group: lvanhoé Cambridge: thank you! 
thank you! — Jewish Community Foundation - KPMG: Vahan & Susie Kololian: Lightspeed: = thank you! 
ene. “ele Lucie & André Chagnon Foundation - MacKinnon-Beaulieu Family « ane, youl) 


thank you! : : thank you! 
thankeyaulthank McCarthy Tétrault » Metro» The Molson Foundation: Mouvement youl ihanke you 


thank you! thank Desjardins - National Bank of Canada + Norton Rose Fulbright - you! thank you! 
thank you! thank CEuvres Marie-Anne-Lavallée » Pharmascience: The Port of you! thank you! 
thank you! thank you! Montreal - Power Corporation of Canada» Quebecor + thank you! thank you! 


thank you! thank you! 
thank you! thank you! thank 


thank you! thank you! 


RBC Foundation - Royal Bank of Canada> 
you! thank you! thank you! 


thank you! thank you! thank Scotiabank: Second Harvest - Leslie Silver & you! thank you! thank you! 


thank you! thank you! thank you! Laurent Ferreira - Stikeman Elliott - thank you! thank you! thank you! 
thank you! thank you! thankyou! thank TD Bank Group-Ubisoft-Stéphane you! thank you! thank you! thank you! 
thank you! thank you! thank you! thank —-Vaillancourt+ Zeller Family = you! thank you! thank you! thank you! 
thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! Foundation thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! 
thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! 
thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! 
thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! 
thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! 
thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! 
thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! 
thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! 
thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! 
thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! 
thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! 
thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! 
thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you! 


Meet Stella 
and Patrick 


When the pandemic began, 

Stella and Patrick saw their favourite 
activities—sports, theatre, travel, 

and many others—put on hold. 

After falling in love with Spain on 
their previous travels, they decided to 
learn Spanish as their “COVID project.” 


For them, it was a way to enrich their 
own lives, to broaden their horizons, 
and to keep their minds active! To date, 
Stella has completed eight language 
levels and Patrick is not far behind. 
Stella hopes to be perfectly fluent for 
their next trip to Spain and would like 
to volunteer with the Hispanophone 
community in Montreal. Patrick, for his 
part, hopes to be able to read 100 Years 
of Solitude in its original Spanish. 


Discover their story: 
communities.ymcaquebec.org 


3 : 
“Learning a 

ne anguage 

is covering " 
ew world...” 


students at the YMCA International — 


¢- — Stella € 
Languag 


~ IMPACT 


Learning a new language is an opportunity 
for personal and professional growth. 

It allows us to broaden our horizons, 
strengthens connections, deepens our 
understanding of other cultures, and 
improves our memory. 


For the year ended December 31, 2021 $ $ 2021 Revenue 
REVENUE 42,016,784 43,018,600 
EXPENSES 42,386,064 40,965,514 72% 
Service agreements 
(DEFICIENCY) EXCESS OF and government 
REVENUE OVER EXPENSES grants 
BEFORE AMORTIZATION, (369,280) 2,053,086 
INTEREST AND FINANCING sno 
COSTS 20% 
Earned income 
AMORTIZATION, INTEREST (memberships, 
AND FINANCING COSTS M7 90;966) ais) classes, camps, rent...) 
(DEFICIENCY) EXCESS OF 8% 
REVENUE OVER EXPENSES 
BEFORE EXTRAORDINARY 159/645) (60,236) Donations and 
ITEMS contributions 
DISPOSAL AND WRITE-OFF 
OF CAPITAL ASSETS 7,676,538 7,882,056 
EXCESS OF REVENUE 
OVER EXPENSES 5,516,692 7,821,820 
2020 
As at December 31, 2021 S $ 
TOTAL ASSETS 65,449,971 60,756,617 
TOTAL LIABILITIES 30,913,647 31,736,985 
NET ASSETS 34,536,324 29,019,632 
The financial statements 
TRON eee 65,449,971 60,756,617 audited by Deloitte LLP are 
availableat ymcaquebec.org = 5 RPS 
Statement z 
i 2021 202 2 
of operations YMCAs of Québec RHGRAGHTIE MERE CO-PRESIDENTS 
For the year ended December 31, 2021 S $ Fo un d at ion 
REVENUE 3,123,767 3,187,847 2021 Donation Sources SELECTION 
EXPENSES 625,117 539,574 
29% 
EXCESS OF REVENUE Sa ea 
OVER EXPENSES BEFORE oundations 
CONTRIBUTIONS TO Zane) Ga0 ac  -§ NOM 
THE YMCAS OF QUEBEC 
42% 
Corporate gifts 
CONTRIBUTIONS TO 
THE YMCAS OF QUEBEC (2,240,817) (2,642,554) ORGANIZATION 
EXCESS OF REVENUE (0) 
OVER EXPENSES 257,833 5,719 16% 
Fundraising 
events 
The financial statements audited by Deloitte LLP 
will be available in June 2022 at ymcaquebec.org 0 6% 
1% Annual gifts 
In kind 9 
donations 2% 4% 


Bequestsand Major gifts 


a a planned gifts —_ from individuals 
Rising to the Challenge 


QO ~ Online version: ieee - 


oe0 


communities ymcaquenecerg 


For more information 

or to make a donation: 

fondation@ymcaquebec.org 

514 849-5331, ext. 1249 Montréal 8 


4 aan, 
VILLE DE nee 
QUEBEC 


& 


= 
oO 
2. 
ise] 
a 
ao) 
e 
U 
=> 
U 
oO 
2 
© 
s 
ro) 
S 
= 
c 
3 
a5} 
vu 
Z 
c 
= 
ee 


