ht 


FOR A BRIGHTER 
TOMORROW 


2023 IMPACT REPORT Shine On HL 


Cover photo credit: Joe Alvoe 


Charity registration no: 11900 1790 RROOOL 


Inclusion 
Respect 
Solidarity 
Boldness 
Caring 
Performance 


Nancy Audette, 

Chair of the Board 

of Directors 

The YMCAs of Québec 


Stéphane Vaillancourt 
President and CEO 
The YMCAs of Québec 


Mario Bédard 

Chair of the Board 

of Directors 

The YMCAs of Québec 
Foundation 


Message from 
the Presidents 


This past year marked Year 4 in our strategic plan and the beginning of the last 
phase of our organizational transformation. We developed the plan in 2019 
in response to the various challenges the YMCA was facing. And then 2020 
happened and the world changed. A lot. And yet, despite the upheaval of the 
last three years, our plan and vision for a reinvented YMCA—an organization 
recognized as a leader for transforming lives—is not only still relevant, but more 
relevant than ever. 


Since the transformation began, we worked tirelessly to find responsible, 
sustainable ways to redefine our physical presence and real estate footprint 
while adapting to new realities. We re-examined how we do things so that we 
can support program delivery more effectively while putting social impact 

at the heart of our decisions. We created an employee health and wellness 
program. Furthermore, a recent survey indicates a 79% employee engagement 
rate, among the highest in the YMCA Canada network. And we refreshed our 
brand image to better reflect our strengths and who we truly are. 


The result? We are more prepared than ever to tackle the social issues of 
today and tomorrow: young people's success, the lack of safe temporary 
housing services, mental and physical health, physical inactivity and sedentary 
behaviours, homelessness, and the inequality of opportunities. But our work 
does not stop here. 


We have ambitious goals for the future: extending our impact beyond our 
current 153 intervention sites in Québec, elsewhere in Canada, and around 
the world; reaching an even greater number of young people; levelling the 
playing field by providing safe, caring, and inclusive spaces so participants 

of all ages can learn new skills and take full advantage of life’s opportunities; 
increasing the reach of our housing services for people in precarious or 
transitory situations; and continuing to offer stimulating fitness activities to 
contribute to active and healthy communities. 


With the incredible generosity of our donors and partners—who, since 2017, 
have helped our Foundation raise $20.7 million through the Springboard for 
Life campaign—and the commitment and support of our employees, 
volunteers, members, and participants, we are building the foundations for a 
stronger, bolder, more dynamic, and more united Y: a place where everyone 
can shine. 


Won't you join us! 


Our 2020-2025 
Strategic Plan: 
Implementing Concrete 
Change 


Our impact model is near completion. Our business model 

has been revised and we are currently moving forward with 

its implementation and with the updating of our service 

offering. This work is being carried out neighbourhood by 
neighbourhood, according to the needs of each community, and 
while paying special attention to provide every person impacted 
by this process with the support they need. 


The work done in 2023 aligns with our vision and our four 

complementary and inextricably linked target states: 

« Implement a clear impact model that guides our decisions 
and facilitates the understanding of our mission; 

- Bea transformed, high-performance, and agile organization; 

« Adopt an improved, integrated, and sustainable business 
model; 

« Become an organization whose social impact is recognized, 
understood, and sought after. 


MISSION-DRIVEN INVESTMENT FUND 

Our mission-driven investment fund, financed by the sale of 
certain assets, is already proving to be an effective tool in our 
financial strategy. Its return on investment is filling the gap in 
funding available to non-profit organizations and complementing 
our philanthropic activities, partnerships, and independent 
revenue sources to secure a sustainable future for 

Our activities. 


Me 
. | 
4|For a brighter tomorrow , , a y 4 a brighter tomorrow | 59 ¥ 
¥ . Ie : 


7 


aa cy 


Our sites 
in transformation 


Several projects to transform our physical presence are in progress, =e! 
so oe we can put more focus on our mission and the needs o 
communities. 


At the Downtown YMCA, the process to redefine our presence 2 saat ¢ 
= 5 ope: 


programming. 


e At the Saint-Laurent, Pointe-Saint-Charles, and Notre-Dame-de- 
Grace YMCAs, discussions on the transformation of these centres 
are ongoing with each territory's stakeholders. 


Montréal "i 
Longueuil 


Downtown | 


6|Fora brighter tomorrow 


\ 
a 
Fora ae 17 


Le 
~MAN 


ae 


ee re a 
aa) f |_|] — pil el 
ay | | i ny — 

7 nee T-ee S es 


ery Tor os th The Downtown YMCA 


1 al a | Hei ica a TRANSFORMING FOR A STRONGER PRESENCE 
— A Pee i = Rab. We announced that we would start the process to put our downtown 
Ie 23 -4 Montréal building up for sale so that we could focus on providing 
programs to the community rather than managing the building, and 


thus further capitalize our mission-driving investment fund. 


Ble 


To maintain and strengthen our ability to serve the Peter-McGill 
population, we would like to find premises to rent that are better 
suited to our programming and where we could create a new, albeit 
smaller, community hub. 


During this transition—a process that will take several years—it will be 
business as usual for the programs that call the Downtown Y home, 
Vanek Contra cite specifically the YMCA International Language School, the TeenZone, 
Ecole internationale and the resource services offered to adults with criminal records 

and people experiencing homelessness. Our multi-use rooms have 
already been made available to other community organizations during 
this period, including dance school and choreography studio Ballet 
Divertimento, that now welcomes students at the Downtown Y. 


de langues YMCA 


“Ballet Divertimento was overjoyed 
to have created a partnership with 
the YMCA. I knew we would bea 
good fit for the Y, because of our 
mutual vision of community service 
and collaborative offerings. 


- Susan Alexander, Executive Director, Ballet Divertimento 


For a brighter tomorrow 19 


A New Brand Signature 


Shine (mn 


Wanting to create a solid foundation to better communicate our reach 
and promote our organization, we redefined our brand signature. This 
new signature draws on the unique way we support people and on that 
hard-to-define feeling that engages our members, participants, and 
students and that is felt throughout our communities. 


At the Y, we believe that with the right support, the right tools, and a bit of 
optimism, everyone can shine. We work hard to give people the opportunity 
to discover their inner strengths and improve their well-being so that they can 
shine bright, and, in turn, contribute to building a stronger community. 


“| feel like a success story 
thanks to the Y. Today, it is 
my turn to help young people 
unlock their potential.” 


— Adam, YMCA Youth Worker and Former Participant in the 
YMCA Alternative Suspension Program 


ADAM'S STORY 

In 2015, as Adam came to the YMCA with a group of students who, like him, 
were suspended from school, he met a mentor in whom he immediately 
recognized his own struggles. 


"He used his own hardships to have a positive impact on young people.” 


Adam started to see school differently. “| graduated from high school with | 4 
honours and a perseverance scholarship. | also gave a speech about my “e - 
journey in front of the whole school.” Today, Adam is a keynote speaker and é ¢ > 
the one mentoring young people at the Y, turning adversity into opportunity . 

and inspiring youth along the way. “Nine years ago, | never would've imagined - 4 
my life the way it is now.” ; 


10 | For a brighter tomorrow 3S For a brighter tomorrow |41 


Y Mind 


“What really stands out about the program 

is the caring approach. The mental health 
professionals’ kindness toward us but also the 
kindness I now show myself as | experience 
anxiety.” 


— Valentine, Former Y Mind Participant 


Thank you to our partners: 

Y Mind is an initiative 
developed in Vancouver by 
YMCA BC. It was adapted into 
French and launched in Québec 
in June 2023 by the YMCAs of 
Québec. Thank you to the 
Public Health Agency of Canada 
for making the deployment of 


VALENTINE’S STORY 
the program possible. 


At the age of 28, Valentine, who has been diagnosed with generalized anxiety disorder, 
signed up for the online version of the Y Mind program to learn how to cope with her 
anxiety better and get back a sense of stability. 


Through the help of the mental health professionals and group discussions, Valentine 
realized she was not alone in her anxiety. Over the course of the meetings, she started 
to feel better equipped to cope with her anxiety. “I went out and started to feel a panic 
attack coming on. | took a deep breath, accepted and lived through the emotions, and 
used the tricks | learned in the program. | was able to calm down in record time.” 

After that episode, Valentine felt more confident. Today, she pushes herself to get out 
of her comfort zone, even joining in on social activities she would not have done in the 
past. “I lost years letting my anxiety limit what | do. Now, | accept that | am who | am, 
negative emotions and all.” 


Helping Youth Get Ahead of Anxiety and Stress 

Launched in Québec in June 2023, the Y Mind program is an opportunity for young 
people to develop concrete mindfulness skills to help them cope with their emotions. 
Through the support and guidance of mental health professionals and group therapy, 
teens aged 13 to 18 and young adults aged 18 to 30 learn how to manage stress and 
anxiety better. 


In 2023: 


The + Close to 120 young people aged 13 to 30 participated in this 


free program, which is offered in French and English. 
Program participants reported feeling less anxious, less isolated, 
and having an improved sense of well-being. 


12 | For a brighter tomorrow 


Welcome and Temporary 
Housing Services 


“Memories of the war are etched in my 


mind, in my children’s too. The YMCA is like VA ee | Gl NI Thankyou tour pares 
a positive bubble around us where we can re | PD), deccueil et cintégration des 


4 a" wr} ; ff » demandeurs d’asile (PRAIDA) 
finally settle down. / ; ay : ; » and the Ministere de 
. ’ : ‘ I‘Immigration, de la 


— Vlada, Ukrainian National and Former Resident at the YMCA Residence Francisation et 


de I'Intégration. 


THE STORY OF VLADA AND HER FAMILY 

Eleven days after the start of the conflict, Vlada decided to flee Ukraine with her two 
sons, aged 5 and 10. After many months of uncertainty and waiting, she was granted 
permission to come to Canada. “| choose Montréal because | speak a little French. 
And your culture reminds me of Ukrainian culture.” 


As soon as she arrived, Vlada and her children were housed at the YMCA Residence. 
“It's difficult being alone in a new city. At the YMCA, | got a lot of help and support 
from the team and the volunteers, but also from the other Ukrainian families. While 
| worked on getting settled, my sons could play in the playroom. They learned a few 
words in English and French.” While Vlada hopes to return to Ukraine when the war 
ends, she emphasizes that she will never forget her stay at the YMCA. “This is where 
| made my first friends in Canada. The YMCA helped me get settled in my adoptive 
country, and, through contact with people like me, it helped me stay connected to 
my roots and keep my culture alive.” 


In 2023: 


@@ee0ee0  -: 11,750 asylum seekers and 845 people seeking safety from 

A AA AAD the war in Ukraine—1,000 of them children—stayed in the three 
residences operated by the YMCAs of Québec. 
Our turnkey model, expertise, and the agility of our teams means 
we can set up welcome and temporary housing spaces quickly 
to meet demand, while always focusing on kindness, inclusion, 
integration, and providing high-quality services. 


14 | For a brighter tomorrow ai For a brighter tomorrow |45 


The Saint-Roch YMCA’'s 
Repit Basse-Ville Project 


PUTTING A HUMAN FACE ON HOMELESSNESS 


Since December 2023, two new centres are now open year-round for people Thank you to our Répit 
experiencing homelessness in Québec, one an overnight shelter with 60 beds, the Beese-Ville project Panama 

: ; Archipel d’Entraide, Projet 
other a day centre that can welcome 50 people. A collaboration between the Y and ) EES PSstitution 
numerous community and institutional organizations, the two centres have aan Québec (PIPQ), the YWCA 
23 employees dedicated to serving the unhoused population and people in _— Québec, the Regroupement 
vulnerable situations P 7 Z bia ' pour l’aide aux itinérants et 


itinérantes de Québec (RAIIQ), 


the CIUSSS de la Capitale- 
These centres are essential for people experiencing homelessness, to protect them Nationale and the 


from the elements, meet their basic needs, and offer them a safe place to rest, ie Disha ) Ville de Québec. 
socialize, and build relationships with the intervention team and the other 
institutional and community sector partners who are invested in the project. 


“It's important to have a place that is open 
year-round, because people don't just need 
help in the winter. It also allows us to 
develop our expertise, maintain and build 
trusting relationships with people, all in 

a spirit of collaboration with the other 
organizations involved in the project.” 


— Olivier Martin, Director of Family and Community Support Programs at the Saint-Roch YMCA 


In 2023: 


e0e5eee + 3,140 people experiencing or at risk of homelessness 
AAA AS have benefitted from our programs—1,934 in Québec City 
and 1,206 in Montréal. 
+ Intotal, we conducted 17,513 interventions with people ot Ye 
experiencing homelessness. 


—_————— 


pe ee 


16 | For a brighter tomorrow a Ones ui ‘ rape " For a brighter tomorrow | 47 


Pathways to Education 


EQUIPPING STUDENTS WITH THE TOOLS TO PERSEVERE 

Pathways to Education is a Canada-wide program that focuses on helping 
students graduate from high school by offering tailored guidance, academic 
support, and group activities such as career mentoring. Using a collaborative 
approach that fosters motivation, the program rebuilds participants’ confidence 
by providing them with the resources they need to persevere and succeed, 


whatever their life trajectory. pathways toe 
— Canada for trusting 
FATIMA’S AND ORLANE’S STORIES : : } the Y to lead this 


Fatima was shy and anxious, a bit of a loner, when she started the Pathways to community prog 


Education program to help her with her academic struggles. “Nobody believed 
| would graduate from high school.” Today, Fatima is pursuing her studies and 
would like to volunteer at the Y as her way of giving back. 


Several times a week, 13-year-old Orlane visits the Y to do her homework 
and school assignments. She is following in her older sister's footsteps, who 
successfully completed the program this year. 


“| have a lot of friends at the Y. | like 
coming here to do homework with them 
and to help each other, but also to talk 
about sports.” 


— Orlane, Pathways to Education Program Participant 


In 2023 

eeeeee - Over 400 students participated in the program at the 
AA AAA Pointe-Saint-Charles and Saint-Roch YMCAs. Close to 
. 1,500 hours of academic support were offered in the 
= two Y centres, breaking down the barriers that stand in 
the way of young people's success. 

Through this program, the Y's commitment to young 
people's success can be felt in 53 schools in Montréal 
and Québec City. 


a 


WATCH THE VIDEO | ymcaquebec.org 7) 


18 | For a brighter tomorrow 


New Membership Plans 


AT THEY, IT’S YOUR MOVE, YOUR PACE! 
We now offer three membership plans for physical and aquatic activities: 
the POLY plan for access to the conditioning room, the MULTY plan for 
access to the conditioning room and group courses, and the 

OMNY plan for full access to all our activities. 


“These new plans give members 
more flexibility, whatever their 
workout habits and lifestyle.” 


— Catherine Blanchette, Executive Director of Territorial Operations at the 
YMCAs of Québec 


These new plans also include reduced rates for certain age groups, 
notably older adults and teens, and a financial assistance program for 
eligible individuals. 


In 2023: 


- 13,550 active members. 
« 918,500 visits recorded in the 6 centres that offer 
60” fitness and aquatic activities, representing close to 
a 60% increase from 2022. 
- 26,500 people participated in our sports activities, 
a 22% increase from last year. 


20 | For a brighter tomorrow For a brighter tomorrow | 21 


Dedicated to the 
Community 


COLIN’S STORY 

A sports enthusiast and certified trainer, Colin was working in athletics 
at different gyms when he realized that many people started their 
training journey at the Y. “I told myself that if | wanted to help people 
adopt the right training habits | had to be at the Y.” He decided to start 
volunteering at the Y and 30 years later is still a committed volunteer. 
Colin volunteers in the conditioning room where he welcomes and 
assists people. “Many people can feel uncomfortable in a conditioning 
room. At the Y, | make sure that everyone feels welcome and that they 
use the equipment safely." 


Colin enjoys the sense of comradery at the Y and that it feels like a 
family. “| feel good here and | feel like I’m making a difference. | like 
helping people. Often, it’s with their training, but sometimes it’s just 
by chatting with them.” 


Colin is proud to be one of the 520 volunteers whose work is vital 
to mobilizing and serving the Y's communities. 


“Volunteering at the Y gives me 
the opportunity to thrive and 
interact with a wide variety of 
people—youth, seniors, people 
from different cultures.” 


— Colin, YMCA Volunteer for 30 Years 


22 | For a brighter tomorrow For a brighter tomorrow | 23 


Dedicated to the 
Community 


“I was proud to have secured my first 
job in Canada, somewhere | felt safe 
and where | could help people.” 


— Rose, YMCA Conditioning Room and Group Fitness Course Coordinator 


ROSE’S STORY 

The first time she visited the Y, Rose was an asylum seeker who had just 
arrived in Montréal after fleeing Iran with her daughter. “I had no point 
of reference but | remember having seen the name ‘YMCA’ when | was 
working on my thesis in kinesiology.” Her instinct pushed her to ask for 
a job at the Y, but instead she left with a volunteering opportunity that 
day. 


“| was already a certified trainer in 
lran, but volunteering allowed me to 
prove myself here, to meet people, 


and improve my French and English.” 


After four weeks, Rose was hired as a part-time trainer. Today, she 
supervises a team of 100. She will never forget that the Y gave her a 
chance at a new life. “| stay at the Y because here people believed in 
me. It’s my job but it’s also people who understand my reality. | have no 
family here so the [work/life] balance the Y offers me is key for me and 7 
my daughter.” | 


“The Y is more than my employer, it's my support system. It’s where 
| was able to build a new family.” 


WATCH THE VIDEO | ymcaquebec.org @ 


24 | For a brighter tomorrow For a brighter tomorrow |25 


Y 
jag 
Lu 
co 
= 
= 
= 
= 
mM 
N 
ro) 
N 


26 | For a brighter tomorrow 


79,100 people, 


youn 


$742,000 


1,900 


Foundation donors 
and partners 


1,500 


school, community, and 
institutional partners 


$41,385 


in financial assistance provided 
to the Haiti YMCA 


34,660 
people 


& 
ee 
Fey 
1,255 


employees 


520 


volunteers 


153 


intervention sites in Québec, across 
Canada, and abroad 


66,430 


visits to our TeenZones, a 33% 
increase from 2022 


3,950 


young people took part in our 
school perseverance and academic 
support programs 


40,000 


hours of academic support 
provided 


820 


families benefitted from support to 
better understand Québec’s school 
system and culture 


2,500 


kids participated in our day camps 


780 


kids and teens stayed at Camp 
YMCA Kanawana 


11,750 


young people benefitted from the 
YMCA Toxico program 


530 


young people took part in 
exchange programs in Canada 
and abroad 


345 


school kits were prepared as 
part of Opération sac a dos 


20,125 


people in vulnerable situations 
benefitted from our community 
programs 


17,513 


interventions with people 
experiencing homelessness 


3,140 


people experiencing or at risk of 
homelessness benefitted from our 
community programs—1,934 in 
Québec City and 1,206 in Montréal 


11,000 


hours of intervention conducted 
with adults with criminal records, 
and 1,900 hours of training 
provided 


2,420 


people completed compensatory 
work through the Y's coordination 
and placement system 


5,250 

language courses taught to 3,330 
students at the YMCA International 
Language School 


26,500 


people participated in our sports 
activities 


13,550 


active members 


918,500 


visits recorded in the 6 centres 
that offer fitness and aquatic 
activities, representing close to a 
60% increase from 2022 


5,550 


kids have learned to swim 


1,610 


people trained in emergency 
intervention through the Y's 
lifesaving, CPR, and first-aid 
courses 


For a brighter tomorrow | 27 


The Foundation and 
Its Mission 


EVERYONE DESERVES TO SHINE 

The YMCAs of Québec Foundation contributes to building 
communities where children, youth, and people in 
situations of vulnerability can lead a healthy, active, and 
engaged life. 


The Foundation acts as a vehicle for change to reduce 
inequalities and promote inclusion so that everyone 

has an equal opportunity to shine. For 40 years now, 

the Foundation, guided by the YMCA's values of caring, 
inclusion, solidarity, boldness, performance, and respect, 
has been contributing to building healthy communities 
where youth and people in the most vulnerable situations 
can fulfill their potential. 


The Foundation's mission is to support the YMCAs of 
Québec and ensure its financial sustainability by promoting 
the impact it has on the community, raising funds, and 
administering these funds responsibly. The donations 
received make the deployment of programs and services 


adapted to the realities and needs of communities possible. 


This is a responsibility we take to heart because we believe 
that everyone deserves to learn, grow, and evolve ina 
caring and inclusive environment ... we believe everyone 
deserves to shine. 


THE IMPACT OF YOUR DONATIONS 

Every year, donations made to the YMCA Foundation 
contribute to building healthier and more active 
communities. 


Supporting the YMCA means making a difference in the 
lives of numerous people by giving them opportunities and 
assistance—so that your entire community can benefit. 


In 2023, over 1,900 donors and partners 
supported the Foundation’s mission. 


Annual Donations 


Participating in the Foundation’s mission can be done 
in many ways and annual donations play a Key role. 
While our fundraising campaigns were successful, we 
strive to continue innovating and will Keep our donors, 
partners, and volunteers informed about 

the Foundation’s impact and work. 


A big thank-you to everyone who directly and 
indirectly supported the Foundation and for your 
incredible generosity this year. It shows a strong 
sensibility to the issues youth and families in 
vulnerable situations are facing and a desire to build 
healthy communities. 


le $48,450 
FC ' 209 donations 


Share in the joy campaign 


$13,860 
119 donations 


Fundraising Campaign to 
support Our Camps 


28 | For a brighter tomorrow For a brighter tomorrow |29 


OTHER COMMUNITY EVENTS 

Several third-party events are organized locally to help 
the YMCAs of Québec Foundation support an even 
greater number of young people in our communities. 


$560 


Sale of promotional items 


Firefighters from Fire Station 30 
organized a jersey and baseball 
cap Sale. Profits from the sale went 
to the du Parc YMCA to support 
youth in the community. 


$5,500 


Kayak race 


From August 20 to September 1, 
2023, Paul Lott kayaked 

650 kilometres between Québec 
and Ontario to support the 
Pointe-Sainte-Charles YMCA's academic 
support programs and TeenZone. 


EVENTS 


$150,000 


Un univers a aimer 
October 12, 2023 


The second edition of the fundraising event welcomed 
235 people and raised money for Saint-Roch youth, 
ensuring they have a place where they can thrive, build 
their independence, and feel a sense of belonging. 


30 |For a brighter tomorrow 


Impact | Consolidation of the YMCA’s youth initiatives such as 
the TeenZone and the academic success programs. 


A big thank-you to the event's partners and organizing 
committee for their generosity and commitment. 


Organizing Committee 

Mario Bédard | Mallette 

Pierre-Oliver Brassard | Novatize inc. 

Stéphane N. Breton | Caisse Desjardins de Québec 
Laurie Gagnon | Evenements Camarade 

Francis Lessard | Graph Synergie 

Geneviéve Marcon | GM Développement 

Francois Moreau | ABCP Architecture 

Myranie Tremblay | Agence Théo 


$135,000 


The YMCA Challenge in 
Montréal and Québec City 


May 16 and June 6, 2023 


| 


In Montréal and Québec City, a total of 

1,344 sneaker-clad participants and 27 teams took part in 
this sporting event. And they rallied an even greater 
number of supporters: through their generosity and 
involvement, 784 donors and 19 sponsors showed 

their support for youth and families. 


Impact | Thanks to the money raised, 800 kids and 
families in situations of vulnerability can access the YMCA‘s 
camp programs, swimming lessons, and facilities. 


A big thank-you to the event's partners and organizing 
committee for their generosity and commitment. 


ORGANIZING COMMITTEE 
Jean-Philippe Bonneau | Gestion Ambicio 
Fabien Caillette | Fonds de solidarité FTQ 
Charles Cété-Lépine | lvanhoé Cambridge 
Magalie Corfias | CIUSSS du Centre-Sud-de-l'ile-de-Montréal 
Eric Delaplace | The YMCAs of Québec 
Patricia Dionne | Productions Patricia Dionne 
Marie-Chantale Dréau | PwC 

Cyclia Lai | Desjardins Group 

David Latour | CDPQ 

Anais Mercet | Levio 


For a brighter tomorrow [31 


Our Major Fundraising 
Campaign 


$20.7M RAISED TO HELP OUR COMMUNITIES SHINE 

The year 2023 was a historic milestone for the YMCA 
Foundation: the major fundraising campaign—YMCA 
Springboard for Life—concluded, raising $20.7 million. 
Thanks to the generosity of our donors, partners, and 
volunteers, who helped us advance our cause, an important 
goal was achieved. 


This financial injection has notably allowed us to develop 
key projects that support the transformation and emerging 
community needs. These projects have made accessing 
Our services easier and allowed us to demonstrate our 
agility in adapting our services to the changing needs of 
the population. Investing in the YMCA's mission allows us to 
consolidate our impact, innovate, and ensure that we can 
continue to offer programs and services to the community 
for years to come. 


WHY LAUNCH A MAJOR FUNDRAISING CAMPAIGN? 

In 2017, many worrying societal issues were raised. These 
included an elevated school dropout rate, ongoing 
unemployment among young adults, sedentary lifestyles, 
technology addiction, an increase in chronic lifestyle diseases 
even in younger people, and increased marginalization. 


The YMCAs of Québec wanted to find ways to address the 
growing needs of communities affected by these issues and 
the money raised through this major campaign will allow 
the organization to support a greater number of people. 


To clearly define the campaign's funding axes and properly 
address the issues identified, four goals were set: 
Break down the barriers of inequality 
Develop children’s potential 
Reinforce young people's interest in physical activity 
Reduce the school dropout rate 


y 32 | For a brighter tomorrow 


THE IMPACT OF THE YMCAs OF QUEBEC'S VOLUNTEERS 
Through the engagement of our volunteers, we surpassed our goal! 
We are so grateful for their substantial and unwavering commitment. 


Let’s celebrate our volunteers’ contribution! 
The Co-presidents of Our Campaign Cabinet 


Richard Payette | Corporate Director 

"This is a collective victory that will benefit communities and families and 
which has allowed us to rally volunteers from the business community around 
the YMCA‘s cause. These volunteers contributed to completing ambitious 
projects, which focused on the social inclusion of young people and the 
creation of diverse communities to offer youth a healthy, active, and respectful 
environment.’ 


Genevieve Marcon | GM Développement 
"This year marked the YMCA‘s third anniversary in Québec City, where its 
rallying presence has had a big social impact in the community. Our paths 


have crossed over our shared desire to create welcoming and innovative 
community spaces in the Saint-Roch neighbourhood and where the values of 
caring, inclusion, solidarity, and respect have found a home.” 


Gregory Chrispin | Corporate Director 
“The results we're celebrating will allow the YMCA to remain present in our 


communities for a long time. The needs are there and our work must continue 
to have a significant impact. The YMCA can count on caring people who work 
hard and make a difference with youth, families, and newcomers. 


Long live the Y!" 


Campaign ario Bédard | Mallette 
; Daniel Charron | Fondaction 
Cabinet 


athieu Duguay | Cogir 
Members Alexander Watson | RBC Québec 
Jean-Francois Hanczakowski | National Bank 


Thank you to our major donors and donors, for their commitment 


at the Springboard for Life YMCA Campaign. 


Manulife 


Beneva National Bank of Canada The Birk Family Foundation 
BMO Financial Group Power Corporation of Canada The Cowan Foundation 
Claudine & Stephen Bronfman Family Fondation Programme Placement Réussite The Estate of Dr. John and 
Cogeco Québecor Mrs. Jane Smola 

Cogir Real Estate RBC Royal Bank The Molson Foundation 
Desjardins Scotiabank 

Genevieve Marcon et Jean Campeau Standard Life 

Groupe Mach 

iA Financial Group 

Louis-Marie Beaulieu 

Lucie and André Chagnon Foundation 


McConnell Foundation WATCH THE VIDEO | ymcaquebec.org & 


Metro 


For a brighter tomorrow | 33 


big projects 
supported 
by the major 
fundraising 
campaign 


ACADEMIC SUCCESS 


A brighter future starts with 


education 

The YMCAs of Québec has developed programs 
focused on academic success. With programs 
such as Homework Help, Pathways to Education, 
and YMCA Alternative Suspension, the YMCA is 
there to guide and support kids and youth through 
every stage of life, from early childhood through 
adolescence and on to early adulthood. Moreover, 
as each neighbourhood is unique, working with the 
various partners and community representatives 
is key to adapting and supporting programs and 
services so they meet the needs of the community. 


“We are very proud to have supported the YMCA‘s 
Springboard for Life campaign and helped create an 
even more promising future for youth at the YMCA. 
At Desjardins, we know how much education 
impacts young people's personal and family life 
but also their future so that they can make their 
dreams come true and build relationships in their 
community.” 


Denis Dubois, 

Executive Vice-President 

— Wealth Management and 
Life and Health Insurance, 
Desjardins, Major Corporate 
Donor 


34] For a brighter tomorrow 


TEENZONES 


Prevention at the heart of our 
mission 

TeenZones are welcoming and inclusive spaces 
where prevention is at the heart of our intervention 
approach. At the TeenZone, young people 
can participate in adapted activities, build their 
confidence, can participate in adapted activities, 
build confidence, and find trusted adults. They 
can come in to chat, listen to music, or play sports 
without worrying about performance. Educational 
programs are also offered and participants can 
join in on group discussions that are focused on 
academic success and preventing problems such 
as isolation and school dropout. TeenZones are 
where participants can cement friendships and 
acquire the knowledge to face life's challenges. 


“When I came to the YMCA 
five years ago, | received a 
lot of support. This allowed 
me to create a social circle 
and learn French.” 


— GuadAlupe, Beneficiary 


THE SAINT-ROCH YMCA 


Building connections to break 


isolation 

Opened in 2020, the Saint-Roch YMCA offers sports 
facilities and community spaces that promote 
healthy lifestyle habits. This means communities 
can be more inclusive and expand the services 
offered to people in the neighbourhood who are 
in vulnerable situations. Working in tandem with 
the other stakeholders in the area, the centre can 
offer a continuum of services, specifically to young 
people and people experiencing homelessness. 


“Leading an activity at the 
day camp allowed me to 
develop my professional 

and family skills, which 
means I'm now better 
equipped to give the best 
of myself. For me, the future 
is the Saint-Roch Y!" 


— Rodrigue, Activity Leader, Storyteller, 
and Stage Director 


FINANCIAL AND PHYSICAL LITERACY, 
Presented by Wl Manuvie 


Raising awareness and giving youth 
the tools to succeed 

The major fundraising campaign enabled us to 
develop and implement financial and physical 
literacy programs at the YMCA. The goal is to 
demonstrate the value of healthy lifestyle habits— 
both physical and financial—and help participants 
adopt them. 


“Thanks to the YMCA's 
TeenZone, | participated 

in the financial literacy 
workshop. | came to 
understand what | needed 
to do to reach my future 
financial goals. Thank you to 
the Y for giving me the tools to make my 
dreams come true!” 

— loannis, Beneficiary 


FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE 


Accessibility for equal opportunities 
Through the YMCAs of Québec’'s _ financial 
assistance program, economic and social barriers 
no longer stand in the way to adopting healthy 
lifestyle habits. The program offers people in 
precarious situations the opportunity to access 
a wide range of programs, particularly aquatic 
activities, physical activities for kids, day camps, 
and language courses. As such, more people can 
fully benefit from the opportunities offered by our 
services, promoting their personal growth and 
well-being. By making the YMCA's programs and 
services accessible, we are levelling the playing 
field for families and communities in vulnerable 
situations. 


“Sports are my world and a way for 
me to communicate with others. 
The YMCA allowed me to 
socialize despite my financial 
limitations. lt represents a 
springboard from my old life 

to my new one. The YMCA is a 
very stimulating place, where 
you are encouraged to surpass yourself.” 
— Nataliia, Beneficiary 


SPRINGBOARD FOR LIFE CAMPAIGN 


Since 2017, over 29,000 actions, big and 
small, supported our mission and cause. The 
$20.7 million raised will have a substantial impact 
on making YMCA programs accessible and on our 
ability to offer our services. 


To do this, we will distribute the funds as follows 
according to our donors’ wishes: 


* Over $10 million to help youth and families 
access Our programs and to support the 
Y's mission through structuring projects that 
reinforce our impact, allow us to innovate, 
and secure a sustainable future for our 
programs. 

¢ $7 million to support our youth programs and 
offer young people a brighter future. 

* $2 million for anew community and sports 
centre in the Saint-Roch neighbourhood of 
Québec City , which opened in 2020. 

¢ $1 million to promote financial and physical 
literacy with young people and help them 
fulfill their potential. 


“Thanks to the invaluable support 
of our donors, the Foundation 
acts as a vehicle for change 

to reduce inequalities 
and promote inclusion 
so that everyone 

has an equal 
opportunity to shine. 


I'm really proud of 
what we achieved together, 

offering youth a 

springboard for life. 

THANK YOU!" 

— Stéphane Vaillancourt, President and CEO 
of the YMCAs of Québec 


For a brighter tomorrow |35 


36 | For a brighter tomorrow 


for a Brighter 
Tomorrow! 


The Y's strength rests in its pooling of talent, beliefs, 
and expertise to encourage and inspire all people 
to fulfill their potential. 


Through their Know-how, caring attitude, and 
dynamic approach, our employees work tirelessly to 
be the spark that ignites change. 


Our committed volunteers put their energy and 
determination into increasing our impact and 
transforming neighbourhoods into healthier and 
more resilient communities. 


Our members and partners put their trust and loyalty 
in us, carrying us forward and allowing us 
to accomplish big things. 


Last, our Foundation’s generous donors and partners 
give us the momentum to help people thrive and 
make a lasting change in our communities. 


We are proud to have accomplished everything we 
have, but none of this would have been possible 
without the support, dedication, and 

optimism of all these people. 


Statement of operations 


For the year ended December 31, 2023 


Revenue 


Expenses 


Excess of revenue over 
expenses before amortization, interest 
and financing costs 


Amortization, interest and 
financing costs 


Excess (Deficiency) of revenue over 
expenses before extraordinary items 


Disposal and write-off of capital assets 


Excess (Deficiency) of revenue 
over expenses 


Statement of 


financial position 
As at December 31, 2023 


Total assets 
Total liabilities 
Net assets 


Total liabilities and net assets 


Statement of 


operations 
For the year ended December 31, 2023 


Revenue 
Donations and contributions 


Investment (loss) income 


Canada Emergency Wage 
Subsidy 


Expenses 


Excess of revenue over expenses 
before contributions to the YMCAs 
of Québec 


Contributions to the YMCAs of Québec 


Deficiency of revenue over expenses 


38 | For a brighter tomorrow 


2023 


$ 
69,981,371 


64,336,828 


5,644,543 


(1,437,032) 


4,207,511 


504,295 


4,711,806 


2023 

$ 
69,715,180 
31,465,282 
38,249,898 


69,715,180 


2023 
$ 
2,602,832 


351,364 


0 
2,954,196 


1,160,390 
1,793,806 
(2,004,928) 


(211,122) 


2022 


$ 
57,467,705 


57,196,021 


271,684 


(1,269,916) 


(998,232) 


0) 


(998,232) 


2022 
S 


63,503,495 
29,965,403 
33,538,092 


63,503,495 


2022 
S 
2,881,796 


(140,134) 


11,425 
2,753,087 


996,304 
1,756,783 
(2,266,646) 


(509,863) 


The financial statements audited by Deloitte LLP 
will be available in June 2024 at ymcaquebec.org 


The YMCAs of Québec 
2023 Revenue 


65” 


Service agreements 
and government grants 


5” 


Donations and 
contributions 


30” 


Independent revenues 
(memberships, 
courses, camps, 

rent, etc.) 


The financial statements 
audited by Deloitte LLP are Agree 


available at ymcaquebec.org “aceredhted: 


The YMCAs of Québec 
Foundation 
2023 Donation Sources 


$5” 


Corporate gifts 


38% 
Gifts from 
foundations 


13% 


Fundraising 
events 


4* 5% 
In Kind Annual gifts 
donations 


2" 3” 


Major gifts from Bequests and 
 adividuale planned gifts 


Volunteer 
Leadership 
AWS 


Thank you to our board and committee 
members who donate countless hours to 
giving back to their community. 


A big thank-you to the local advisory 
committees, which present an opportunity 
for members and local organizations to 


offer their unique perspective on local and 
community needs and contribute to our 
decision-making processes. 


We would like to highlight the exceptional 
commitment and engagement of the 
YMCA Peace Medals’ major donors. 


Together, let's build a brighter 
tomorrow for our communities! 


The YMCAs of 
Québec Board 
of Directors 


Jean-Charles Angers Andrée Mayer-Périard 


Retired (Réseau réussite Montréal) 

Nancy Audette Diane Nyisztor 

Chair of the Board 2% Vice Chair 

of Directors 

(Cogeco) Francois Tremblay 

: Vice Chair 

Denis Blackburn (National Film Board 

(Financial Horizons group) of Canada) 

Mikhail Bourezg 

Strategic Consultant External 
Een Committee 

Lise Brisebois 

(Kruger) Members 


Cadleen Désir 
(Centre de pédiatrie 
sociale Laval) 


Patricia Alleyn 


Waguih Rabbat 
Anne Duprat, CPA, CFA, CIA 


(KDC/ONE) 
Honorary 
Harold Fortin Members 
(AtkinsRéalis) 
Nicole Brennan 
Alain Giguére (2009) 
Treasurer Feu Marcel Cété 
(Strigo) (2010) 
Tara Mandjee Michael Novak 
(BRP) (2012) 


Local 
Advisory 
Committees 


CARTIERVILLE 
Catherine Limperis 
Trevon Pascall 

Caroline Proulx-Trottier 
Patricia Tansey 


Annie Tétreault 


NOTRE-DAME-DE-GRACE 
Halah Al-Ubaidi 

Grazielle Bieto-Challenger 
Lori Goodhand 

Gerry Lafferty 

Shabira Lalani 

Lynda Porter 

Karen Staddon 


Daniel Villeneuve 


SAINT-ROCH 
Marie-Noél Béland 
Sébastien Boulanger 
Eric Boulay 
Pierre-Olivier Brassard 
Mario Cété 

Joana Dufour 

Dany Le Siége 

Lynda Verret 


WEST ISLAND 
Nadine Adishak 
Sheila Laursen 
Nina Myers 
Rick Steele 


Peter Warren 


The YMCAs 
of Québec 


Foundation Board 


of Directors 


Mario Bédard 
Chair 
(Mallette) 


Stéphan Drolet 
Treasurer 
(KPMG) 


Stéphane Vaillancourt 
Secretary 
(The YMCAs of Québec) 


Nancy Audette 

Ex-officio Member — Chair 
of the YMCAs of Québec’s 
Board of Directors 
(Cogeco - Senior Vice 
President and General 
Manager) 


Benoit Brillon 
(Cadence Investment 
Management) 


Sebastian Cardarelli 
(Tonus Capital ) 


Yves-Alexandre Comeau 
(Fonds de solidarité FTQ) 


Marie-Chantal Dréau 
(PWC) 


Daniel Gagné 
(Mallette) 


Antoine Guilmain 
(Gowling WLG) 


Mélissa-France Heredia 
(Roynat Capital) 


Claudie Imbleau-Chagnon 
(Blake, Cassels & Graydon LLP) 


David Latour 
(CDPQ) 


Janie Thélémaque 
(Investissement Québec) 


Un univers 
a aimer 

Organizing 
Committee 


Mario Bédard 
(Mallette) 


Pierre-Olivier Brassard 
(Novatize Inc.) 


Stéphane N. Breton 
(Caisse Desjardins de Québec) 


Laurie Gagnon 
(Evénements Camarade) 


Francis Lessard 
(Graph Synergie) 


Genevieve Marcon 
(GM Développement) 


Francois Moreau 
(ABCP Architecture) 


Myranie Tremblay 
(Agence Théo) 


YMCA Peace 
Medals 
Committees 


Brian Bronfman 
(Peace Network for Social 
Harmony) 


Jean-Francois Hanczakowski 
(National Bank) 


Nathalie Mercier-Filteau 
(WSP Canada Inc.) 


YMCA Challenge 
Organizing 
Committee 


Jean-Philippe Bonneau 
(Gestion Ambicio) 


Fabien Caillette 
(Fonds de solidarité FTQ) 


Magalie Corfias A 
(CIUSSS du Centre-Sud-de-l'lle- 
de-Montréal) 


Charles Cété-Lépine 
(Ilvanhoé Cambridge) 


Eric Delaplace 
(The YMCAs of Québec) 


Patricia Dionne 
(Productions Patricia Dionne) 


Marie-Chantal Dréau 
(PwC) 


Cyclia Lai 
(Desjardins Group) 


David Latour 
(CDPQ) 


Anais Mercet 
(Levio) 


For a brighter tomorrow 139 


Québec 


BE 


| Montréal | 


7 


e The YMCAs 
Shine On of Québec 


ymcaquebec.org 


®eO000 


tear YD YMCAs of Québec 
deservey to shine - Foundation 


For more information in) 
or to donate : 


fondation@ymcaquebec.org 
514-849-5331, extension 1249 


Printed on 100% recycled paper. | Copyright 2024, the YMCAs of Québec 


