SOURCE: Two 1928 newspaper clippings pasted into the photograph album of ELIZABETH PITT BARRON
        (1904-1997), a Margaret Eaton School student, Toronto. Internet Archive item
        MargaretEatonSchool_redeemer_168, "Folder 168 -- Photo Album: Elizabeth Pitt Barron
        (1925-1930)", uploaded by library@redeemer.ca in the margareteatonschool collection.
        OCR (ABBYY FineReader 11) of PDF 168i01-09; retrieved 2026-09-07.

        The item's own contents list names them:
          168.4.1-3  "Girls Make Films: YWCA Camp Oolahwan Will Be Open to Sunday Visitors" (1928)
                     "Field hockey girls of Margaret Eaton School" (1925)
                     "Life-Saving Tests in the Laurentians" (1928)

        NEITHER CLIPPING NAMES ITS NEWSPAPER OR ITS EXACT DATE. Both are dated 1928 by the archive's
        own description of the folder. They are almost certainly Montreal papers, since the camp is
        the Montreal YWCA's and one refers to "the Central 'Y'".

        THE OCR IS ROUGH AND THE COLUMN EDGES ARE LOST in places -- "the girls r~ having a splendid
        time, and most them have taken on a nice brown su mer complexion" is the scanner, not the
        writer. Two readings are genuinely uncertain and are flagged where they occur: the visitors'
        day date, OCR'd "Sunday August lind", and the name of the town the camp is near, which the
        clipping is cut off before finishing ("within a few miles of Ste.").

        WHY IT WAS FOUND: an Internet Archive enumeration on "oolahwan" returns exactly one item that
        this project did not already hold, and this is it.

=== OCR AS DOWNLOADED, LINES 111-230 OF 168i01-09_djvu.txt ===





Field hockey girls 
of Margaret Eaton 
School 



LIFE-SAWNG TESTS - 



Royal Life Saving Society classes 
were conducted at the Y.tV.C.A. camp. 
“Oolahwan,'' located up In the Lauren- 
tian Hills. A. W. Ross represented the 
R.L.S.S., and he reports that everything 
Is lovely at the camp. The girls r~ 
having a splendid time, and most 
them have taken on a nice brown su 
mer complexion. The candidates passing 
for the awards were as follows: For the 
Proficiency Certificate and Bronze Me- j 
dalllon, the Misses Anne Logan. Eleanor 
Cowan. Helen Stocking. Helen Thomp- , 
son. Gertrude Parkei, tVilhelmlna 
Rutherford, Andre Levy, Yvette Levy. 
For the Award of Merit: Miss Greta E. | 
Granger. Miss C. Robertson was award- 
ed the Hon. Instructor's Certificate for | 
having conducted the camp class. Miss . 
Pitt, the sports manager, is having great | 
success, and the young ladles are show- r 
ing a keen wish to take active part in I 
all the fun that Is arranged for them in , 
the great outdoors. t , 






GIRLS MAKE FILMS 

Y.WC.A. Camp Will Be Open to 
Sunday Visitors 

The month' of July at Camp, Oolah- 
wan has beaten all records for at- 
tendance, accommodation having been 
I taxed to the utmost by applications 
i from hundreds of city girls desiring 
i to spend a holiday at the Y.W.C.A. 
camp. So far there are quite a few 
vacancies for August, and many girls 
who were disappointed in securing ac- 
commodation earlier can be provided 
for, the Central "Y” promises. 

Yesterday provided an unexpected 
thrill for the campers in the arrival 
on the scene of a “movie” man. with 
cameras and several hundred feet of 
film . The girls put their best efforts 
into fancy dives, while tennis and 
basketball were never so enthusiasti- 
03 • y * C 2 n *' estt ' <1 wh ' le the camera was 
registering “action.” 

de? V Thn« hin 5 , Wa l in shipshape or- 
new if' frlr, : s who are living in the 

, W „, S t pi "S bungalows put up the 
thevh^i l 8 ’ lndlan names which 
the^ h bun^ S<?n ' °£ erthe entrances to 
-is NTv^ nSa °' vs ' These include such 
fireflv m- ra l nbovv ' Wahwahtaysee. 
Wawona i*i nnCt0 i Sk a ' happy laughter; 
awSf 5 ' whippoorwill, and Sen- 

all night. 1 burna nut-side the door 



Morning and afternoon swims are 
big events each day and the end of the 
lake presents a colorful scene with 
bright caps and bathing suits flash- 
ing about. The girls are divided into 
four classes according to their prof- 
iciency in the natatorial art, under 
the names of tadpoles, cygnets, swans • 
and mermaids. The tadpoles all wear 
red caps to catch the vigilant eye of 
the sports officers who can exercise 
special supervision over the begin- 
ners and see that they do not stray 
from safe limits. 

Tonight and eveiy Friday is ' 
“stunt" night at Oolahwan. 

For the convenience of friends and 
relatives wishing to visit the girls, 
Sunday August lind has been set aside 
as visitors' day. when the camp will 
be open to callers between the hours 
of noon and 4 p.m.. Owing to lim- 
ited kitchen facilities, it will not be 
possible to serve meals to visitors, but 
a hearty welcome , will be extended 
by both officers and girls. The camp 
Is located within a few miles of Ste. 
Marguerite station and the hours 
have been arranged to conform with 
I train schedules. 

