SUMMER 2025 

YMCA Kanawana

Preparation 
guide

Canoe-trip program information  
package complement 

Canoe trip personal gear packing 

Preparation activities in camp 

Food and hygiene during a canoe trip 

Weather on canoe trip 

Meet our guides 

Physical expectations for participants 

Canoe trip safety protocols at camp  
YMCA Kanawana 

Available communications 

First aid kits on trips 

29

33

34

36

36

37

38

38

40

41

This handbook has been prepared to provide you with 
important information concerning our program at Camp 
YMCA Kanawana and to prepare your child for their  
experience at camp. We encourage you to read it  
carefully and keep it as a handy reference.

  Table of contents

Welcome to camp YMCA Kanawana! 

Our mission 

Our values 

Preparing for camp 

Packing tips 

What not to bring 

During your child’s stay 

How can I contact my child? 

Life at camp YMCA Kanawana 

Cabin/Tent Groups 

Residential Camp Activities and Programs 

Overnight camping on Lake Wilson 

Changeovers 

Health and Well-Being 

Food services 

Meet our staff team 

Safety 

Map of camp 

Transportation: directions to bus  
pick-up and drop-off 

Transportation: directions to camp 

Forms, fees, and policies 

Campers from outside of Québec 

Questions 

3

4

4

5

6

7

8

10

12

13

14

15

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

26

28

Let’s Share the 
YMCA Experience!

Welcome to 
CAMP YMCA KANAWANA!
Non nobis solum (not for ourselves alone)

Dear Parent,

We would like to take this opportunity to thank you for choosing Camp YMCA Kanawana 

for your camper this summer. The YMCA is an organization dedicated to providing 

healthy, safe, and secure environments where children and youth can learn new skills, 

develop self-confidence, and create memories that will last a lifetime.

Kanawana is a place to make new friends and feel a sense of belonging; a place to 

discover the beauty of nature and the outdoors; a place to turn “I can’t” into “I did”; 

a place to be accepted for who you are. While your camper experiences the positive 

environment where they will develop lasting relationships with their peers and 

counsellors, we would like to develop our relationship with our camp families.  

We welcome you to ask us questions and share your feedback.

We look forward to welcoming your child to camp—thank you for placing  

your trust in us! 

Sincerely,

The Camp YMCA Kanawana Team

SUMMER 
2025 

3

PREPARATION GUIDECamp YMCA Kanawana Our mission

The Y Mission 

The mission of the YMCAs of Québec is to inspire and encourage all people to reach their full potential,  

thrive and contribute to their community.

The Camp YMCA Kanawana Mission 

Camp YMCA Kanawana strives to create a camp community where everyone feels safe and valued; where  

everyone has a chance to grow; where our actions and behaviours are driven by our common YMCA values, 

including non nobis solum (not for ourselves alone); and where we care for each other and the environment.

Our values

Caring 
Camp YMCA Kanawana is all about creating a better 
world by creating connections with oneself, with others, 
and with nature. We strive to empower our campers 
to be caring and to learn how to disconnect from 
technology so they can reconnect with each other.

Inclusion 
To be a Kanawanian is to be part of a community 
that embraces diversity and welcomes all, regardless 
of cultural or socio-economic background, gender 
identity, or sexual orientation. Our inclusion program 
also aims to create a safe and accessible environment 
for children and youth with different needs and diverse 
abilities, from physical limitations, to behavioural 
challenges, to struggles with mental well-being.

Solidarity 
In the spirit of our camp motto, non nobis solum  
(not for ourselves alone), campers learn to cooperate,  
to take care of one another, and to build cohesive 
groups with their bunk mates and other fellow 
Kanawanians. We emphasize democratic living  
and teamwork in everything we do.

Boldness 
At Camp YMCA Kanawana, we choose not to rest on 
the successes of our past, instead we dare to implement 
intentional change and to seek innovation. Our campers 
learn to embrace new things and new people, and we 
hope that they bring the confidence they build at camp 
into their home communities, to become the bold 
leaders of tomorrow.

Performance 
We draw on our over 130 years of summer camping 
to offer the best possible camping experience with a 
high level of professionalism. We also encourage our 
campers to challenge themselves and surpass their own 
previous performance by offering them opportunities  
to build their skills through camp activities.

Respect 
Campers learn to show respect and consideration for 
themselves, their peers, their counsellors and other 
staff members as well as for camp’s infrastructure and 
equipment, the forest and lake on which we live at 
camp, and the natural world on a more global scale.

4

PREPARATION GUIDECamp YMCA KanawanaPreparing for camp

Sleepaway Camp Tips

It is very common for children of all ages, particularly first-time campers, to experience excitement, anticipation, fear 

and nervousness prior to their departure to summer camp. All of these emotions are normal. In order to best prepare 

your child for their experience away from home, here are a few tips from Chris Thurber (psychologist and summer 

camp expert) and the American Camping Association, as well as from our own experience:

•  Talk to your child about what camp will be like. Work together to plan and pack for their stay, and have a couple 

of “practice runs” where your child stays away from home for a couple of nights or longer. As you go through the 
day-to-day of camp, figure out what your child is most nervous about, and discuss ways to overcome those fears.

•  Acknowledge, in a positive way, that you will miss your child. For example, you can say, “I am going to miss you, 

but I know that you will have a good time at camp.” When writing letters or emails while they’re away, try to focus 
on asking questions about their time at camp rather than pointing out what they might be missing at home.

•  Try to avoid bribery or bargaining. Linking a successful stay at camp to a material object sends the wrong message. 

The reward should be your child’s newfound confidence and independence.

•  Avoid making a “pick-up deal,” (i.e., telling your child that they can come home early if they miss home or don’t 

like the experience). This undermines our ability to help them adjust to camp life and sets their experience up  
for failure. Please be assured that we will call you if anything isn’t going well, and work with you to come up with 
the best solution for your child.

•  Pack a personal item from home, such as a stuffed animal or a picture of you, their friends, or their pets. Have your 
camper take responsibility in the packing process, so that they easily know where to find things in their luggage 
when they’re living at camp, and can easily access those personal items when it comes to setting up their space  
in their cabin or tent.

•  Come to our Open House on Sunday, June 15th (10:00 a.m.–4:00 p.m.) to introduce your child to counsellors, 

other campers and the environment they will be living in. Weather permitting, we will open our program areas  
and a meal will be offered at a reasonable price.

• 

It has often been our experience that grown-ups have a harder time with departures than children do.  
Try to remember that it’s only a short separation and that your child is in good hands at camp. Show your child 
that you are positive, confident, and reassuring as you drop them off at the bus or at camp, so that the tone  
is set for their stay.

For more details, please visit:  

www.acacamps.org/press-room/how-to-choose-camp/homesickness

5

PREPARATION GUIDECamp YMCA KanawanaHelp Us Support Your Child

It is very important that you share with us any different needs that your child may have, e.g., ASD, ADHD, mental 

health issues, reduced physical capacities, significant fears (i.e., thunderstorms, the dark), bedwetting, or behavioural 

or social difficulties. Please ensure to thoroughly complete the medical portion of the registration form, and  

if necessary, we recommend you send an email or speak with the summer camp director or your child’s section 

director prior to camp so we can prepare the best support for your child’s needs. All information shared with us  

is held in the strictest of confidence and will only be shared with staff as deemed appropriate.

Packing tips

DON’T FORGET MEDICATION!

•  Choose the right luggage: pack items in a suitcase or duffle bag, as storage space is limited.

•  Keep cozy: campers are required to provide their own sleeping bag and pillow. A three-season sleeping bag  
is recommended, as nights do get cold, especially in August. (Please note: if bedwetting is a concern, please 
ensure your child’s sleeping bag is machine washable.)

•  Avoid digging through the mountain of Lost & Found: LABEL EVERYTHING! Black sharpie or sticker labels  

work on almost everything.

•  Reduce the risk of a mess: pack toiletries and other liquids (bug spray, sunscreen) in Ziploc or water-tight bags.

•  Have it come home again: give your child a packing list in order to help them with repacking.  
You can download our suggested packing lists from our website under “Important Documents.”

• 

Shampoos, conditioners and soaps must be biodegradable (glycerine based and phosphate-free) and  
we recommend that they be unscented (perfumed products attract black flies, mosquitoes, etc.).

•  Campers who wear contact lenses will need their glasses if participating in a program featuring a canoe trip  
and THEY SHOULD HAVE AN APPROPRIATE STRAP TO HOLD THEIR GLASSES WHILE ON THE WATER.

6

PREPARATION GUIDECamp YMCA KanawanaWhat not to bring

• 

FRAGILE ITEMS: Please keep in mind that camping and canoe tripping are wilderness activities that  
can be strenuous on equipment.

•  Brand new clothes: Children will be outdoors, playing hard and getting dirty!

• 

Swimwear or clothing that is not appropriate to the level of activity at camp: Swimwear should provide full 
coverage and be sports-oriented—anything too loose or easily detached will not work for the higher-intensity 
activities we do. Campers will be asked to add a layer or change should their swimwear or clothing be deemed 
inappropriate to the intensity of their camp activities.

•  Hand-held video games, music players, cell phones, laptops, or other digital devices: These items will be 

confiscated, labelled and locked in a safe until the last day of the camper’s session.

•  Hair dryers, straighteners, electric razors or toothbrushes that need a plug: camper living spaces do not have 

electricity, and we have to limit our electricity use in the bathrooms to avoid power loss.

• 

Jewellery, dangling earrings and stylish watches: They can cause injury and are easily lost or damaged.

•  Cash: All campers have a tuck account (included in fees) and they may only purchase items by using  

this account. Additional money can be added to tuck accounts if needed during registration or by phoning  
our office. Cash will not be accepted from campers.

• 

Food or snacks: Raccoons, skunks, ants, squirrels and other critters will go into tents/cabins looking for  
food if they smell it. Also, several campers have life-threatening food allergies and many follow special diets  
for medical or religious reasons. Because of this, we ask that you please refrain from packing or sending  
your child any food items.

•  Knives cannot be brought to camp: Any knife will be confiscated and put in the camp safe until camper  

departure. The camp can supply knives for activities if/when deemed necessary.

•  CIGARETTES/VAPE PENS or TOBACCO are NOT TOLERATED at camp: They will be confiscated and a call  

will be made to their families. A second incident will result in the camper being sent home.

•  ALCOHOL/RECREATIONAL DRUGS: We have a ZERO TOLERANCE policy for campers using, or being in 

possession of alcohol or recreational drugs. Campers found consuming or possessing alcohol or recreational 
drugs will be sent home immediately.

•  PLEASE NOTE: Camp YMCA Kanawana is not responsible for stolen, lost or damaged property of any kind.

7

PREPARATION GUIDECamp YMCA KanawanaDuring your child’s stay

Laundry

Campers registered for only one six-day or twelve-day session do not receive laundry services. Please be sure to send 

your child to camp with enough clothing to last throughout their stay, with appropriate gear and clothing suited for 

canoe tripping, if registered for a trip program. We will do laundry on an emergency basis as needed.

Lost & Found

More than 2,000 participants and staff visit Camp YMCA Kanawana between May and October. Unfortunately, clothing, 

shoes, boots, hats, and other items are often left behind. In the summer, we end up with at least five large garbage 

bags full of lost items after each session. There are three things you can do to increase the chances  

that your child returns home with what they brought to camp:

•  Clearly label every item they bring with their first and last name with a printed label or Sharpie marker  

in an obvious location.

•  Pack your child’s bag with them present so they see what you are packing.

•  Provide your child with a checklist of packed items to use when they pack at the end of the session.

Camp staff members do their best to collect lost and found items left around camp throughout the session.  

Labelled items tend to make their way back to campers quicker. On the last day of camp, every lost and found  

item is laid out in the dining hall and each cabin/tent group has a chance to walk around to claim their belongings. 

Any unclaimed items will be sorted by our admin and volunteer teams. We will do our best to contact you  

if a labelled item is found to arrange for it to be returned to you.

Camp YMCA Kanawana will only keep lost and found items for one week after the last day of the session. During this 

time, if your child is missing something, you may email a description of the item to camp.kanawana@ymcaquebec.org. 

We will look through the lost and found and if we find it, we will contact you to arrange for it to be retrieved.  

After one week, we will donate the unclaimed lost and found items to a worthy charity.

Please note that despite our best efforts, we cannot guarantee  
that lost items will be found. Camp YMCA Kanawana is not 
responsible for lost, stolen, or damaged items.

8

PREPARATION GUIDECamp YMCA KanawanaLanguage and Behaviour

Camp YMCA Kanawana is NOT a place for inappropriate language, violence, bullying, being disruptive or disrespectful 

to staff and other campers, etc. Counsellors and the section director (and summer camp director, if necessary) 

will address incidents with campers, and families will be notified, as a first step. If there is no significant change 

in behaviour, the summer camp director reserves the right to send a child home, and families are responsible for 

arranging their transportation as needed.

Camper Behaviour Agreement

Camp YMCA Kanawana is a community whose motto is non nobis solum (not for ourselves alone), where respect 

for one another and the environment is a core value. We believe it is important that all campers understand what is 

expected of them and what they are committing to when they decide to become part of the magic of Kanawana.  

We recommend that you take time to discuss the camper behaviour agreement with your child to ensure they 

understand their commitment to the Kanawana community.

I promise to:

•  Respect the natural environment that makes camp so beautiful.

•  Treat all campers and staff with respect and courtesy.

•  Use appropriate language.

•  Respect other people’s belongings.

•  Respect all safety regulations implemented by Camp YMCA Kanawana staff members to ensure everyone’s  

safety during activities on camp and on canoe expeditions.

•  Never use or possess alcohol, illegal substances, recreational drugs, or tobacco products during my stay  

at camp or during my canoe trip expedition.

•  Contribute my happiness, enthusiasm and humour.

Tuck Shop

Every camper at Camp YMCA Kanawana will receive a reusable water bottle on their first day at camp, and will be 
sent home with a T-shirt from this season and a photo print of their cabin/tent group. The tuck fees required for your 

camper are automatically added to your invoice when registering; part of the fees will cover the cost of the three 

items mentioned above, and the rest can be spent at the camp tuck shop during their stay. If your child does not use 

all of the tuck money available, a refund may be issued for amounts over $10. In order to receive this refund, you 

must send a written request. All remaining tuck money remains within the YMCA, and goes towards providing services 

to families with lower incomes, including sending campers to Kanawana. Please note that tuck refund cheques are 

only issued after the summer, usually during the month of September.

9

PREPARATION GUIDECamp YMCA KanawanaHow can I contact my child?

Camp YMCA Kanawana is an “unplugged” environment, where we discourage the use of technology. As such,  

we ask that campers do not bring their own cell phones. As a general rule, we also do not permit campers to use 

the camp telephone, as it is reserved for camp business and emergency purposes. All families of first-time campers 

will receive a phone call or email from their child’s section director after the first few days of camp about how 

the campers are doing. If you wish to speak with your child’s section director, you may call and leave a message—

likewise if you would like to set up a time to speak with your child directly. We will return your call as soon as 

possible. In terms of regular contact, we do recommend sending letters, postcards, or (non-food) care packages  

by mail or sending an email through our camper email system.

Contacting My Child on a Canoe Trip

It is very important to know that it is not possible to contact campers while they are on a trip. Our guides leave  

camp with emergency phones and are able to contact camp if necessary but the battery power is limited and guides 

are instructed to keep the phones off, unless they are needed. If you send your child mail or emails during their stay, 

they will only receive them before or after their canoe trip.

Camper Mail

Mail is distributed every day. We encourage parents to send letters, postcards or packages by mail or by courier.  

UPS and Purolator deliver directly to the site. Your child’s FULL NAME, AGE AND SECTION must appear clearly  

on all envelopes, postcards and packages (please do not send food items as they will be confiscated). Please keep  

in mind there is a delay of three to five business days for items sent through regular mail.

Here is the camp’s address for letters, postcards or packages: 

•  Camper’s Full Name – Section* – Age

•  Camp YMCA Kanawana | 673 Saint-Elmire Road 

Saint-Sauveur-des-Monts (Québec) J0R 1R1

*Camper’s section is the program you registered them to, (e.g., Woodsy, Pioneer, Pathfinder, Coureur des Bois, Voyageur, LIT).  
Indicating their section makes it easier for our admin team to sort mail for distribution!

Emails to Campers

Send your child an email using our camper email system! Emails will be printed and distributed to campers within  

24 to 48 hours. Do not expect an immediate reply. Campers cannot use computers at Camp YMCA Kanawana. We will 

give campers the opportunity to write back once a week (see more info below), or they can reply by regular mail.

10

PREPARATION GUIDECamp YMCA KanawanaSending Emails

You can send an email to your camper at kanawanacamper@ymcaquebec.org. In the subject line, please write 

“Camper’s Full Name – Section* – Age” (like regular mail) so that we know who to deliver it to. To be environmentally 

friendly, we ask that you save up your family news for a day or two before sending an email to your camper—it’s a 

shame to have to print an entire page for just a couple of sentences from home.

*Camper’s section: see note above regarding mail

Receiving Replies by Email

Once a week, we will arrange for each camper to be given a piece of paper on which they can write an “email” 

home. It will then be scanned and emailed by our admin office team to the email address for the Head of Household 

attached to the camper’s registration. If your camper is on an eight-day canoe trip, it is unlikely we will be able to 

process a scanned letter back from them, given the short amount of time they are present on camp. If you choose  

to send an email while campers are away on canoe trips, they will receive those printed emails upon their return.

Contacting Us by Phone

Please note that while we move offices from Montréal to Saint-Sauveur at the beginning of June, it may be harder  

to contact some of our team members. Our administrative team in Montréal will be able to pass on a message if you 

are unable to reach the person you are looking for.

Campers may not use the telephone without the permission of their section director. If your child is having difficulty 

adjusting to camp, the section director will call you. Remember, no news is good news!

You can use the number below to reach your child’s section director, to contact any of our staff members,  

and to use in case of emergencies.

Phone: 450 227-2414

Visitors

We are responsible for ensuring the safety of almost 250 children each session, and as a result, we enforce a strict 

visitor policy. Campers will only be allowed to receive visitors in case of emergency. Please do not show up to camp 

unannounced to visit your child, as you will be refused access to camp for safety reasons. Visitors will be escorted  

to the front office upon arrival.

VERY IMPORTANT: If a parent or any other relative is legally denied access to your child, you must inform us  

in writing prior to the start of your child’s camp session.

11

PREPARATION GUIDECamp YMCA KanawanaLife at camp YMCA Kanawana

Supervision 

Your child’s safety and well-being are our top priorities. We ensure your child’s safety 24 hours a day.

Our junior (ages 6–12) campers are in groups of up to ten campers and are supervised by a minimum  

of two counsellors. Senior (ages 12+) campers are in groups of up to eight and are supervised by a minimum  

of one counsellor.

Campers also receive additional supervision from program specialists during certain activities. There are specialists 

present at rock climbing, nature outings, arts and crafts, swimming (3–4 staff members), boating (2 staff members)  

and kanawoodshop. All program specialists who supervise the swim area are certified lifeguards, and some of  

our counsellors are as well. The ratios in residential camps are subject to regulations governed by the Association  

des camps certifiés du Québec (ACQ). 

 Also, per our regulations from the ACQ, at least one staff member with each cabin or tent group must be  

a minimum of three years older than their campers (i.e., a 17-year-old counsellor would not be alone with a group  

of 15-year-old campers).

The table below is a comparison of the ACQ standards and the standards we implement at Camp YMCA Kanawana.

ACQ

Camp YMCA  
Kanawana

Program Areas at  
Camp YMCA Kanawana

Juniors (Ages 7–12)

1/7 or 1/8

Seniors (Ages 12–16)

Junior Trips (Ages 11–12)

Senior Trips (Ages 13–17)

1/9

1/4

1/5

2/10

1/8

3/10

2/8

3/10

2/8

N/A

N/A

12

PREPARATION GUIDECamp YMCA KanawanaCabin/Tent Groups

Section directors make an earnest attempt to put children of the same age together. However, sometimes there are 

not enough campers of the same age to make up a whole group. In addition, language profiles, familial associations, 

and cabin-mate requests have to be taken into consideration. As a result, the age spread in a tent/cabin group may 

range from one to three years. If you would like to make a cabin-mate request on your child’s registration, we ask 

that you limit it to two names per session. Please make sure that this is a mutual request and that both campers 

are registered in the same program. We cannot guarantee that the request will be fulfilled. We encourage new and 

returning campers to make new friends during their stay, and the easiest way to do this is to have them in cabins/tents 

with new faces each summer.

13

PREPARATION GUIDECamp YMCA KanawanaResidential Camp Activities and Programs

Campers participate in a wide range of activities at Kanawana with their cabin or tent group, as well as their section 

and the entire camp. Programs are planned by the counsellors, section directors and program staff. Furthermore, 

campers can select two to four interest group activities (spaces limited per activity) during their session. Interest 

groups allow campers to choose activities based on their interests and to meet different groups of campers other 

than those in their cabin/tent group. Some interest groups feature different levels; campers who successfully 

complete these levels will receive an in-house certification. Other interest groups are simply an outlet for creativity.

Daily Life at Camp YMCA Kanawana

7:15 a.m. – 7:45 a.m. 
8:00 a.m. – 9:00 a.m. 
9:00 a.m. – 9:20 a.m. 
9:20 a.m. – 10:25 a.m.
10:25 a.m. – 11:30 a.m.
11:30 a.m. – 12:15 p.m.
12:15 p.m. – 12:30 p.m. 
12:30 p.m. – 1:30 p.m. 
1:30 p.m. – 2:30 p.m. 
2:30 p.m. – 3:30 p.m.
3:30 p.m. – 4:30 p.m.
4:30 p.m. – 5:30 p.m.
5:30 p.m. – 5:45 p.m. 
5:45 p.m. – 6:45 p.m. 
6:45 p.m. – 7:00 p.m.
7:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m.
8:00 p.m. – 9:00 p.m.
9:00 p.m. – 10:00 p.m.
10:00 p.m. 

Morning dip (optional)
Breakfast & announcements
Cabin clean-up & preparation for the day
Cabin/tent program #1
Cabin/tent program #2
General swim and open program areas* (canoe, archery and nature activities)
Prepare for lunch
Lunch and announcements, plus section cheers every few days
Siesta/break time
Interest Group #1
Interest Group #2
General swim and open program areas*
Prepare for dinner
Dinner and announcements
Down time
Cabin/tent program #3
Cabin/tent program #4 (Junior campers prepare for bed)
Campfire (Senior campers prepare for bed)
Lights out

*Open program areas vary depending on weather and availability of staff, but typically will change from morning to afternoon.

In all of our programs and activities at Kanawana, we emphasize the importance of participation, fun, cooperation, 

and skill development. Camp activities may include swimming lessons, canoeing, kayaking, paddle boarding, 

woodworking, archery, arts and crafts, nature activities, rock climbing, low ropes course, music, dance, athletics,  

yoga, and more. Some of the special programs at camp include Coffee/Cocoa House (talent shows), campfires, 

Dancing with the Staff, Kanawoodstock, overnights, and the Lumbermen and Voyageur games.

14

PREPARATION GUIDECamp YMCA KanawanaOvernight camping on Lake Wilson

Every two-week camper has the opportunity to discover the great outdoors through an overnight camping excursion 

on Lake Wilson, which includes one night camping in a tent where each camper has the opportunity to help prepare 

the campfire, cook on a fire, and enjoy the beauty of the wilderness on our wonderful site! Each cabin group is 

accompanied by two staff members and every campsite is equipped with camping gear, along with a first aid kit  

and a walkie-talkie for emergency purposes. Please note that our Summer Camp Director and our infirmary staff  

are reachable by walkie-talkie 24 hours a day.

The safety of our campers is always a priority at Camp YMCA Kanawana and therefore overnights will not be sent out 

in uncooperative weather. Overnights will be rescheduled if, and when, possible although this cannot be guaranteed.

Our youngest Junior section groups (Pioneers and Woodsies aged 7–9 depending on cabin makeup) may participate  

in Overday trips, paddling or hiking to one of sites where they will swim and play and have lunch before returning in 

the late afternoon.

Changeovers

Changeover weekends are offered as an option for campers that wish to spend the weekend at camp instead of going  

back home between two 12-day sessions. This option is offered for campers aged 7 to 16 and offers an array of activities 

that are supervised by at the very least two staff members and a member of our camp summer management team.

On top of enjoying the quietness of camp, campers will have the opportunity (weather dependent) to partake in a day 

of activities at Sommet Saint-Sauveur, a well-known water park located 10 minutes away from camp, or to go bowling 

if the weather turns bad. On top of providing meals, snacks and supervision, our changeover campers will also benefit 

from a laundry service to wash their belongings between sessions. Campers that stay changeover at Camp YMCA 

Kanawana will also have the opportunity to call home during the weekend.

NOTE: No programs include a changeover weekend unless expressly stated in program descriptions or communicated 

by the management team. Some programs may spillover onto changeover weekends due to scheduling of 

certifications and/or out-trips. These specific cases will be communicated in advance to the families concerned. 

15

PREPARATION GUIDECamp YMCA KanawanaHealth and Well-Being

Camp maintains a five-bed infirmary, which is supervised by two healthcare staff. All health forms, medications  

and printed copies of health cards are kept in the infirmary during your child’s camp session. The infirmary staff  

relay pertinent health-related information to counsellors, trip guides, and section directors on a need-to-know basis. 

Please note that health forms, printed copies of health cards, and medication are given to guides and accompany  

the group on canoe trips.

If your child must continue to take prescribed medication while at camp, please give the bottles, ointments etc.  

to the camp’s healthcare staff at the bus or on-site check-in. Please ensure that your child has enough medication 

to last the whole session(s) and that it is clearly marked. Prescription medication must be given to us in its original 

packaging with dosage information and camper’s name on the label. At the end of the session, medication will be 

included in the camper’s personalized envelopes available at the bus or the main office at camp.

All medication, prescribed or otherwise, is kept at the infirmary in a locked cabinet at all times. Only under special 

circumstances (e.g. inhalers and Epi-pens) are campers permitted to keep their medication with them.

The healthcare staff or summer camp director/assistant director will call you in the following circumstances:

•  Your child requires a visit to the clinic or the hospital.

•  Your child requires an overnight stay in the infirmary.

•  Your child contracts a contagious illness.

A stay at camp is NOT a good time to eliminate or reduce prescription medication. Camp YMCA Kanawana will  

only administer or dispense medication as prescribed by a doctor or pharmacists. Written permission of a doctor  

or pharmacist is required for any changes to dosage or time of day the medication is to be taken.

If your child is currently (or has recently been) seeing a therapist or other support person for their mental health,  

we ask that you tell us what their needs will be at camp. If possible, please let their support person know that we may 

want to get in touch with them for advice while your child is at camp or to ask them to speak directly with your child 

(in case of crisis or other urgent mental health support)

16

PREPARATION GUIDECamp YMCA KanawanaFood services

An important part of maintaining a healthy lifestyle while at Camp YMCA Kanawana is to ensure that campers eat 

well during their time with us. A registered dietician approves our menu before the summer begins, in accordance 

with the accreditation standards of the Association des camps certifiés du Québec, and we ensure that optimal 

nutritional standards are met for each meal. Additionally, our food services team provides hearty, healthy, and  

well-balanced meals to give campers the energy they need for an active day.

Campers enjoy three nutritious meals per day, along with two snacks. If campers need an extra boost, we provide  

fruit and water in the Dining Hall throughout the day. If your child has any special dietary requirements, please see  

our Allergy Management Plan below.

Dietary Restrictions and Allergies

At Camp YMCA Kanawana, we make every effort to accommodate campers with dietary restrictions and food allergies. 

Please be sure to clearly describe any dietary requirements for your child on the application form. 

Allergy Management Plan

We pay close attention and take the following precautions to provide a safe environment for campers  

with food allergies:

•  We track the allergies of all our campers.

•  Our kitchen is aware of all campers with food allergies and their needs.

•  Epinephrine (EpiPen) is available at various locations around camp.

•  Epinephrine (EpiPen) is available on all overnights and canoe trips.

•  Peanuts and nut products are not available or allowed on camp. We do use products containing traces of nuts  

and peanuts in our kitchen, as well as in our canoe-tripping programs.

Safety note: While we are accustomed to having campers with severe food allergies and make every effort 

to ensure nut and peanut products are not brought onto Kanawana’s property, we do not 

guarantee that our site is peanut and nut free, as we do use products that may contain 

nuts and peanuts. For serious food allergies, please feel free to get in touch with our 

management team prior to registration to discuss your child’s needs and to see  

if we are able to meet them.

17

PREPARATION GUIDECamp YMCA KanawanaMeet our staff team

A top-notch camp starts with a dedicated, dynamic and well-trained staff team. Our experienced staff and 

counsellors receive more than 80 hours of training, are certified in CPR and first aid, and have completed the YMCA 

Healthy Child Development program in order to ensure your children receive the highest standard of care.

At Camp YMCA Kanawana, we pride ourselves on a dedicated, caring and well-rounded staff team. Through various 

positions at camp, whether as a counsellor, a program staff, a canoe trip leader, or a member of the management 

team or of our support staff, we ensure that every staff member is trained according to their role and are capable of 

handling their responsibilities. Aged 17 and up, our team’s diversity and devotion towards our campers create a lifetime 

of memories! Over 60% of our staff members have evolved as campers at YMCA Kanawana and live by our camp 

motto: non nobis solum (not for ourselves alone).

18

PREPARATION GUIDECamp YMCA KanawanaSafety

The safety, security, and well-being of your child are our top priorities. Camp YMCA Kanawana is equipped with a 

telephone system, emergency sirens, and radio communication. Main camp buildings and program areas are equipped 

with first aid kits and there is epinephrine available strategically around camp. In addition, an emergency oxygen tank 

and AED are available in the infirmary. Most camp staff members possess a combination of first aid and CPR training. 

Additionally, several staff members possess advanced wilderness first responder certifications.

All staff participate in mandatory pre-camp training sessions prior to the camp season. Pre-camp staff training 

addresses Kanawana’s safety regulations and emergency procedures as well as extensive training according  

to standards set by YMCA Child Development programs and the Association des camps du Québec, of which  

our camp is a founding member. All staff members go through a police background check and reference checks 

before they are hired.

During the first two days, campers are given a swim test and taught what to do if they hear an emergency siren.  

Use of Kanawana’s boating equipment (barge, canoes, kayaks, and paddleboards) requires a personal flotation device 

be worn at all times. Boating games and activities may also require that campers wear protective headgear.

Groups participating in activities away from the main camp facilities (overnights) are required to bring a first aid kit  

and radio (walkie-talkie). The summer camp director and infirmary staff carry radios (walkie-talkies) at all times,  

day and night.

19

PREPARATION GUIDECamp YMCA Kanawanap
m
a
c
f
o
p
a
M

Camp YMCA Kanawana   
 
Transportation: directions to bus  
pick-up and drop-off

 École secondaire Pierre-Laporte : 1101 Rockland Road | Mont-Royal | Québec | H3P 2X8

We strongly encourage campers from Montréal and the surrounding area to travel to and from camp on the bus  

as the camp experience often starts during the ride to camp. The buses are also a great way to reduce our carbon 

footprint. If you have to change your child’s transportation arrangements before or during the session, please let us 

know as soon as possible in writing so we can notify your child and make the necessary arrangements. You can  

do so by emailing camp.kanawana@ymcaquebec.org.

You will be charged $25 for each transportation change made a week or less before the first day  

and last day of the session.

Session

Departure*

Return juniors

Return seniors

1A

1B

1

2

June 23 8:00 a.m.

June 28, 4:30 p.m. – 5:00 p.m.

June 29, 8:00 a.m.

July 4, 4:30 p.m. – 5:00 p.m.

June 23, 8:00 a.m.

July 4, 4:30 p.m. – 5:00 p.m.

July 4, 5:00 p.m. – 5:30 p.m.

July 7, 8:00 a.m.

July 18, 4:30 p.m. – 5:00 p.m.

July 18, 5:00 p.m. – 5:30 p.m.

Voyageur Extreme

July 7, 8:00 a.m.

July 25, 4:30p.m. – 5:00p.m.

3

July 21, 8:00 a.m.

August 1, 4:30 p.m. – 5:00 p.m.

August 1, 5:00 p.m. – 5:30 p.m.

Voyageur Extreme

July 28, 8:00 a.m.

August 15, 5:00 p.m. – 5:30 p.m.

4

August 4, 8:00 a.m.

August 15, 4:30 p.m. – 5:00 p.m. August 15, 5:00 p.m. – 5:30 p.m.

*Buses only leave Pierre Laporte around 8:30 a.m.–9 a.m., but we ask that campers arrive at least one hour ahead to give us enough time  
for registration, lice check and loading luggage. Anyone who misses the bus will be responsible for arranging their own transportation to camp.

Authorized Pick-Up List

When you registered, we asked you to indicate whether your secondary contact and emergency contacts had 

permission to pick up your child from the bus (other than the main contact on the account). At the bus pick-up,  

we will ask for photo ID from whoever is picking up your camper, and compare it to the names on that list.  

If you need to add names of anyone else who has permission to pick up your child, you may contact us at   

camp.kanawana@ymcaquebec.org and we will be happy to make the required changes.

21

PREPARATION GUIDECamp YMCA KanawanaTransportation: directions to camp

 673 Saint-Elmire Road | Saint-Sauveur | Québec | J0R 1R1

1. Take route 15 North until exit 60.

2. Take the first left at the light (coming off the exit ramp).

3. Merge towards the right lane in order to merge right at light onto Route 364.

4. Go through three more lights and turn left at the fourth light, on rue Principale.

5. Follow Principale, passing Mont Habitant, and turn left on Saint-Elmire Road.

6. Drive 3.3 km on Saint-Elmire Road. Camp YMCA Kanawana is on your right.

Schedule for campers being driven to and from camp:

Session

Arrival

Departure

1A

1B

1

2

June 23, 9:00 a.m. – 10:00 a.m.

June 28, 2:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m.

June 29, 9:00 a.m. – 10:00 a.m.

July 4, 2:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m.

June 23, 9:00 a.m. – 10:00 a.m.

July 4, 2:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m.

July 7, 9:00 a.m. – 10:00 a.m.

July 18, 2:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m.

Voyageur Extreme

July 7, 9:00 a.m. – 10:00 a.m.

July 25, 2:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m.

3

July 21, 9:00 a.m. – 10:00 a.m.

August 1, 2:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m.

Voyageur Extreme

July 28, 9:00 a.m. – 10:00 a.m.

August 15, 2:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m.

4

August 4, 9:00 a.m. – 10:00 a.m.

August 15, 2:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m.

Authorized Pick-Up List

When you registered, we asked you to indicate whether your secondary contact and emergency contacts had 

permission to pick up your child from the bus (other than the main contact on the account). At the bus pick-up,  

we will ask for photo ID from whoever is picking up your camper, and compare it to the names on that list.  

If you need to add names of anyone else who has permission to pick up your child, you may contact us at   

camp.kanawana@ymcaquebec.org and we will be happy to make the required changes.

22

PREPARATION GUIDECamp YMCA KanawanaForms, fees, and policies

Payments and Refunds Policy

There is a non-refundable registration fee of $175 + taxes per registration, to reserve a place for your camper  

at camp. All other fees must be paid in full by June 1.

All refunds and cancellations must be requested in writing (an email will suffice). If a reimbursement has been 

approved, it will be prorated according to the number of days your child was present at camp. Absence from camp 

does not constitute a withdrawal from the program—you must contact us to obtain your refund.

Cancellations or changes in sessions or programs must be made in writing, and will not be accepted over the phone.

Behavioural Policy

Camp YMCA Kanawana reserves the right to remove a child from the group for the period we deem necessary  

if the child disrupts the group’s activities, or if their conduct affects a person or persons.

Consequences for inappropriate behaviour: Conflict is a natural and normal part of any community. At camp, we try 

to use conflict resolution as an opportunity to heal harm, mitigate future harm, and build community. Inappropriate 

behaviours will have consequences appropriate to their degree of severity, and will focus on repairing the relationships 

between campers, staff, and/or camp. If your child is involved in a situation of inappropriate behaviour, whether 

instigator or victim, we will call or email home to let you know what happened and what has been done to rectify 

the situation. If we feel that the behaviour was severe and reparation at camp is not possible, we will ask you to make 

arrangements to remove your child from camp. If there has been a consistent disregard for our camp rules, disrespect 

for fellow campers and staff, and an unwillingness to change their behaviour, we may also decide that it is best for 

your child to leave camp.

Medical Form and Medication

During registration, you had the opportunity to provide information about your campers’ medications and medical 

conditions. You can make changes to this information by emailing camp.kanawana@ymcaquebec.org at any time 

leading up to your camper’s arrival at camp. Any additional instructions or updates to that information that you wish  

to give our medical staff about medication can also be communicated at the bus pick-up or at the main office at 

camp or atà wellness.kanawana@ymcaquebec.org during the session. You may choose to write a letter and hand it  

in directly to one of our camp’s infirmary staff. All medications are to be handed in to our infirmary staff at the bus  

or on site clearly marked with the name of the child, dose, frequency, and any other instructions clearly indicated  

(for non-prescription medications) or in the original packaging (for prescription medications). Kanawana’s infirmary 

staff will follow the instructions on the label unless a note signed by a doctor accompanies the medication and 

explains the reasoning for not following the label.

23

PREPARATION GUIDECamp YMCA KanawanaHealth Cards

We will not be taking custody of camper health cards.   

If you wish to send your camper with their card, they must be responsible for it. Instead, all campers must arrive  

at drop-off (either at camp or to the bus) with a photocopy/print- out of their provincial health card or equivalent 

proof of medical insurance. This can also be emailed in advance (as a photo or PDF attachment) to  

wellness.kanawana@ymcaquebec.org. Please note that our guides bring the copies of camper health cards  

for all campers who are on a canoe trip.

Bed Bugs

Bed bugs are becoming increasingly common in the province. While they are annoying, bed bugs are not known  

to transmit human diseases. If your family has been affected by bed bugs within the weeks leading up to your child’s 

stay at camp, please notify the camp administration. Your child will still be able to attend camp. However, a visual 

inspection of their belongings will be done at the bus stop or before entering camp to check for hitch-hiking bugs. 

Also, their clothing, sleeping bag and pillow will be put through the dryer once we have arrived at camp. Heat is  

the only non-chemical treatment that has proven to be effective at killing bed bugs at all stages of their life.

Lice

Camp YMCA Kanawana works hard to prevent outbreaks of lice. Lice checks will be performed for every camper  

prior to embarking on the camp bus or before entering camp at sign-in. Please ensure that your child’s hair is not in  

a hairstyle that will need re-doing (we need to be able to check near the scalp, behind the ears, and at the nape  

of the neck in particular).

a. We will not be doing lice treatments at camp. If your camper has lice, you will need to take them home  

to do their treatment, and bring them to camp only when they are clear of lice and nits. We recommend  

putting their clothing and bedding through a high-heat dryer cycle before repacking, as well.

b. In case of late arrival due to lice treatment, we can offer a pro-rated refund for the days missed, or you  

can choose to cancel your session. If there are spaces available in later sessions, you may choose to switch  

your registration. These requests must be made by email to camp.kanawana@ymcaquebec.org.

24

PREPARATION GUIDECamp YMCA KanawanaTick Protocol

Camp YMCA Kanawana recognizes the importance of being proactive when it comes to ticks and their potential 

to transmit Lyme disease. Although we only rarely find ticks on site and we are in a moderate zone, we have 

implemented the following protocol for camp:

a. Counsellors and trip leaders will ensure that campers check themselves for ticks every night before bed,  

and in the morning if sleeping at an overnight site/out on canoe trip. Campers will use each other to  

check in difficult areas such as the back, behind the ears and scalp. Hand-held mirrors will also be provided  

for checking difficult areas while they are at camp.

b. Campers will be encouraged by their counsellors to check themselves while in the shower. During trips,  

trip leaders will encourage campers to check themselves for ticks when they are swimming.

c. If a tick is found on a camper, it will be removed by the infirmary staff or trip leader as soon as possible.  

The parents will be notified depending on the timing within the session; parents may be consulted regarding  

or advised on bringing the camper for preventative Lyme disease treatment in a participating pharmacy.

d. If a tick bite is suspected but no tick is present, the camper will be monitored for Lyme disease symptoms 

 and the parents will be advised. If Lyme disease is suspected, the camper will be taken to the pharmacy,  

hospital or clinic for antibiotic treatment.

25

PREPARATION GUIDECamp YMCA KanawanaCampers from outside of Québec

Medical Insurance

It is mandatory for all campers to have medical insurance that covers them during their entire stay at camp. Camp 

YMCA Kanawana does not provide medical insurance on behalf of campers. Please send a copy of your medical 

insurance via email to the camp administration team at wellness.kanawana@ymcaquebec.org before June 1.  

Please also send your child to camp with a hard copy that includes the insurance policy number and any contact 

information that might be useful should your child require a trip to a medical professional.

Airport Transportation

We can offer airport pick-up and/or drop-off for an extra fee. If your child requires transportation from the airport, 

please let us know by emailing or calling the camp administration team: camp.kanawana@ymcaquebec.org,  

or 514-687-9622. Airport transportation fees are $85 plus tax each way or $170 plus tax for a round trip.

Flights

It is very important that camper flights are booked to arrive no earlier than June 23rd and depart no later than  

August 15th. There will be no campers on site prior to June 23rd nor after August 15th, and we cannot guarantee  

we will have a driver available to bring your child to or from the airport or have staff to supervise them outside these 

dates. If you need to book a flight outside of those dates, please speak with the summer camp director first.

Please send your child’s flight itinerary to camp.kanawana@ymcaquebec.org soon as you have booked your flight(s). 

Ideally, parents or guardians should book their child’s flight(s) before June 1st.

A Camp YMCA Kanawana driver can pick up and/or drop off your child at the airport on the first or last day of a session 

or during camp changeovers. If your child will be arriving during a changeover, you will be charged $385 + taxes  

plus tax for the changeover supervision and meals. Please visit our website for the changeover dates.

26

PREPARATION GUIDECamp YMCA KanawanaInternational Camper Airport Pick-Up

If your child will be travelling as an unaccompanied minor, please contact us for information about the driver who  

will be scheduled to pick up your camper. We will not know the driver’s schedule more than one or two weeks ahead 

of time. The driver will have a Camp YMCA Kanawana sign so your child can identify them, and we will provide you 

with a cell phone number if you need to contact them during transit days.

Personal Belongings

We recognize that many campers arriving from out of province often have valuable personal belongings for their travel 

time such as passports, cash, cell phones, music players and other electronic devices. Such items will be safely stored 

in the camp safe, which can only be accessed by the summer camp director and assistant summer camp director.  

The camper’s belongings will be stored on the first day of camp and returned only upon their departure from camp.

27

PREPARATION GUIDECamp YMCA KanawanaQuestions

If you have any questions or concerns about Camp YMCA Kanawana, your child’s 
registration, payment or any other issue, please do not hesitate to contact us.

Client Services and Administration
Email: camp.kanawana@ymcaquebec.org
Year-round phone: 514 687-9622 or 1 833 505-9622 (outside of Montréal)  
Summer phone: 450 227-2414 (or year-round number above)

Assistant to the Directors
Amy Thomson
Email: amy.thomson@ymcaquebec.org  
Phone: 450-227-2414, ext. 6

Summer Camp Director
Justin Caldwell
Email: justin.caldwell@ymcaquebec.org  
Phone: 450 227-2414, ext. 4

Trip and rental coordinator
Phone:450-227-2414

Summer Camp Assistant Director
Quinn Durand
Email: quinn.durand@ymcaquebec.org  
Phone: 450-227-2414, ext. 5

Executive Camp Director
Marie-Pierre Lacasse
Email: marie-pierre.lacasse@ymcaquebec.org  
Phone: 450 227-2414, ext. 7

Looking forward to a 
great summer with you!

Follow us on social media to see what  
campers are up to during the summer.

Like Camp YMCA Kanawana on Facebook  
and Instagram today for updates and photos!

28

PREPARATION GUIDECamp YMCA Kanawana Pourriez-vous créer un bouton « Virtual » « Virtuel » dans les tons de bleus pour mettre à droite des cours dans le calendrier? (comme le bouton deferred)Canoe-trip  
program  
information 
package  
complement

a
n
a
w
a
n
a
K
A
C
M
Y
p
m
a
C

29

TROUSSE DE PRÉPARATION 
 
 
Canoe trip personal  
gear packing

It is important to send your child to camp with appropriate gear and clothing suited  

for canoe-tripping and their stay at camp. Please consult our trip packing list  

for full details. PLEASE LABEL ALL CLOTHING AND CAMPING GEAR (e.g., dry bag)  

WITH FIRST AND LAST NAMES!! The best way to mark clothing is to use an indelible 

ink pen (Sharpie) or labels. Write your child’s name on shirt collars, shoes, sleeping  

bags, hats, toothbrushes, towels, etc.

Additional tips and ideas:

  Pack items in a backpack or duffle bag, storage space is limited.

  Campers are required to provide their own sleeping bag and ideally a dry bag.  
A three-season lightweight sleeping bag is recommended, as nights do get cold, 

especially in August (NOTE: if bedwetting is a concern, please ensure your child’s 

sleeping bag is machine washable). We recommend a 30-liter dry bag for each  

program (please refer to the packing list for specific comments).

  Pack toiletries and often-used items (bug spray, sunscreen) in labelled Ziploc bags  
and ensure that all products are biodegradable.

  Send your child with a packing list in order to help them with re-packing.

  Campers who wear contact lenses will need their glasses for the canoe trip and  
THEY SHOULD HAVE AN APPROPRIATE STRAP TO HOLD THEIR GLASSES WHILE  

ON THE WATER (please refer to packing list for more details).

  Shampoos, conditioners and soaps must be biodegradable (glycerine-based and 
phosphate free) and unscented (perfumed products attract black flies, mosquitoes, etc.).

31

PREPARATION GUIDECamp YMCA Kanawana What NOT to bring:

  FRAGILE ITEMS: Please keep in mind that canoe tripping is an extensive wilderness 
activity that can be strenuous on all equipment.

  Brand new clothes: Children will be outdoors, playing hard and getting dirty!

  Swimwear that does not meet the level of activity at camp. Speedos and swimsuits  
with knots or ties that can easily come undone or come off are not adequate for  

the demands of the swimming and boating area activities.

  Hairdryers, Discmans, Gameboys, mp3 players, cell phones, laptops, and/or  
all digital devices: These items will be confiscated, labelled and locked in a safe until  

the last day of the camper’s session.

  Jewelry, dangling earrings and stylish watches: They can cause injury and are easily lost.

  Cash: All campers have a tuck account (included in fees) and they may only purchase 
items by using this account. Additional money can be added to tuck accounts if needed 

through our administrative services.

  Food or snacks: Snacks are available to campers in the Dining Hall and on canoe trip  
all day, every day, Kanawana does mean “peaceful and plenty to eat” after all! Raccoons, 

skunks, ants, squirrels and other critters will go into tents/cabins looking  

for food if they smell it.

  Knives or duct tape: Camp can supply these items if/where deemed necessary.

  CIGARETTES or TOBACCO: Will be confiscated and a call will be made to parents.  
A second incident will result in the camper being sent home.

  ALCOHOL/DRUGS: We have a ZERO TOLERANCE policy for campers using, or being  
in possession of alcohol or drugs. Campers who are found with any of these items  

will be sent home immediately.

PLEASE NOTE: Camp YMCA Kanawana is not responsible for stolen or lost equipment, 

jewelry, watches, cash, or other personal items.

32

PREPARATION GUIDECamp YMCA Kanawana Group equipment provided by the camp

During the canoe trip experience, your child will be expected to have the items identified 

on the packing list (or an appropriate substitute), but we will also provide equipment that will 

serve the group as a whole and that will be used by your child and their team while on trip.

For your information, this is the equipment used by the participants and trip leaders  

on each canoe trip led by Camp YMCA Kanawana:

Sleeping and  
campsite life

•  Tents
•  Axes and a saw
•  Shovel
•  Toilet paper and hand sanitizer
•  Garbage bags
•  Survival kit
•  Functional satellite phone  
and GPS tracking device

•  Emergency money
•  Waterproof map case including 
trip routes, menu, recipe book  
and emergency information

•  First aid kit

Cooking  
and hygiene

•  Pots and pans
•  Bowls and spoons
•  Serving utensils
•  Biodegradable soap  
and hand sanitizer
•  Mesh bag for drying 

dishes

•  Water purification  

treatment
•  Water filter
•  Food barrels

Other

•  Library
•  Program material  

for chosen activities

•  Pocket games

Travelling

•  Canoes
•  Paddles
•  Throw bags
•  White-water rescue kit
•  PFD fitted to each participant
•  Bailers for each boat
•  Boat repair kit
•  Carry bags for personal  

dry bags

•  Participants’ personal  

dry bags

•  Boat equipment (safety  

lines, flashlight, sound device, 
extra paddle, extra PFD)

Our equipment is verified prior to departure by trip leaders, the campers, as well as  

by our Equipment Manager. This ensures that the equipment will be safe, clean and  
that all repairs and breaks will be identified prior to the activity. This policy enables us  

to run safe programs and helps us ensure the safety of your child at all times.

33

PREPARATION GUIDECamp YMCA Kanawana OUR CANOE TRIP PROGRAMS 

Preparation activities in camp

Your child’s safety and well-being are our top priorities. We take all necessary steps  

to ensure your child’s safety 24 hours a day, both at and off camp. A canoe trip program  

is a huge accomplishment for a camper and our team’s main goal is to ensure that your 

child is prepared and fully aware of the realities involved in the experience they will be part 

of. As a canoe tripping camper, your child will have the opportunity to participate in  

the following program blocks to ensure that they are sufficiently prepared:

•  Participation in planning the menu: Campers get a chance to choose their meals  

and the trip leader verifies the menu later on to ensure that all the meals are balanced 
and respect the Canadian Food Guide requirements.

•  Personal equipment preparation: Which is a program session where the campers  

get a chance to practise packing their dry bags and learn what they need to bring on 
the canoe trip and how to use those items.

• 

Situational preparedness simulations: What to expect on a camping trip  
through skits and fun games!

•  H20 safety: How to be safe on and in the water and what to do to ensure  

your own safety.

•  Route: Explaining and showing where the trip will be and the trip route  

that will be followed.

• 

Fire building: Campfire technique workshop with a competition where  
the campers will eat one meal on the campfire.

•  Portaging and paddling techniques and T-rescues (what to do if your canoe tips!)

•  Boat trip to Lake Wilson to practise paddling and practise what it’s like to be  

on a canoe trip in a mini- adventure.

•  White-water safety: A workshop presenting different white-water features.

These activities help campers develop outdoor skills and self-confidence, and enables 

us to evaluate the skills of your child and prepare them adequately for the canoe-trip 

experience they are about to live.

34

PREPARATION GUIDECamp YMCA Kanawana Itinerary

We strive to plan each canoe trip according to the age group, as well as the level of 

fitness and the skill level of each participant. Each participant will be informed of the 

canoe trip itinerary prior to the trip departure. This is why it is extremely important to fill 

in all the required documents in order to keep our team informed of your child’s personal 

development and situation.

Our Hike and Trip program runs canoe trips on the following rivers: Noire, Dumoine, 

Coulonge, Bazin, Rouge, Gatineau, Missinaibi, Mistassini, Mistassibi, Lièvre, Jacques Cartier, 

Batiscan, Pontax, Ashuapmushuan, and the Chochocouane. We also paddle flatwater trips 

in the beautiful LaVerendrye and Papineau Labelle Wildlife Reserves.

Life of a canoe tripper on trip

Your child will participate in many camp activities, most frequently with their cabin or tent 

group, when they are on Camp YMCA Kanawana’s property. During the first days of camp, 

they will have the opportunity each morning to participate in preparation activity for their 

adventure.

While out on a canoe trip, the typical daily schedule is as follows:

7:00 a.m. Wake-up call

7:30 a.m.

Participation in trip chores: wood collecting, helping out to prepare breakfast

9:00 a.m.

Taking down the campsite and help pack the canoes

10:30 a.m. Paddling

11:15 a.m.

Paddling games and rest time!

12:30 a.m.

Lunch time at a beach

2:00 p.m.

Paddling towards the campsite

3:00 p.m.

Setting up camp and swimming around the campsite

4:00 p.m.

Survival programming activity

5:30 p.m.

Preparing dinner and participating in trip chores

7:30 p.m.

Campfire stories!

9:00 p.m.

Teeth brushing and sweet dreams!

Please note this is a generic schedule that will be adapted for each program by our trip 

leaders based on the itinerary and group.

35

PREPARATION GUIDECamp YMCA Kanawana Food and hygiene during a canoe trip

Our trip menu includes a variety of ingredients that are as nutritious as they are tasty!  

The menu will be chosen by the campers and the trip leader’s role is to ensure that  

the choices made each day are complementary in terms of nutritional intake needed  

for the physical efforts made while on trip by all participants.

Meal

Breakfast

Lunch and  

Dinner

Name of the meals offered

Apple quesadillas, bagels, oatmeal, breakfast burritos, French toast, 
scrambled tofu, sprinkled vector, hash browns

Pita pizzas, mac & cheese, Thai coconut curry, Cali wrap, bean  
salad, taco salad, pasta salad, red pasta, red dhal, lazy papillote,  
pesto pasta, lazy pierogis, barley soup, hummus wraps, vegetarian 
sloppy joes, quinoa salad, stir-fry, General Tao tofu, burritos

Snacks and  
Desserts

Nutrigrain bars, Vector, dried fruit, Goldfish, s’mores, cinnamon  
buns, magic squares, tripbrownies, caramelized pears/peaches,  
trip pie, apple crumble, fig bars, Ritz crackers

Food is amongst the most important factors to a successful canoe trip, so it is crucial 

that each participant fills in the “Diet Choice” section of the personal information sheet 

honestly to inform our guides accurately of their preferences or their health concerns. 

Dishes are washed using an abrasive scrubbing method with minimal detergents, which 

follows our “Leave No Trace” principles and has the smallest possible environmental impact.

Weather on canoe trip

Kanawana canoe trips travel through northern Quebec and Ontario Parks, where  

the weather can vary a lot, even during a single day. It is important to think when packing 

the participant’s belongings that rain, cold nights, and very windy days will probably 

increase the challenge of the activity itself. Average July temperatures are usually around 

20 degrees Celsius, but in August they can range from 20 degrees during the day to  

10 degrees at night. Please refer to the packing list to provide appropriate gear for  

your child’s canoe trip.

36

PREPARATION GUIDECamp YMCA Kanawana Meet our guides

At CAMP YMCA Kanawana, we pride ourselves on hiring friendly, hardworking and 

children-loving staff each summer. All our canoe trip leaders are extensively trained for 

their position. They are all aged 19 years old and up and have extensive canoe tripping 

experience. In order to guide a Camp YMCA Kanawana canoe trip, each guide must:

Experience

•  Be aged 18 and over

•  25 days of canoe tripping done  

Certifications

•  Wilderness First Responder  

(80-hour wilderness first aid course)

as an assistant guide

•  White Water Rescue Technician (WRT)

•  Participate in the 14-day trip leading  
training provided by Camp YMCA 
Kanawana (8 of these days done  
on a river)

*PLEASE REFER TO THE LIST OF APPROVED ORGANISATIONS USED BY CAMP  

YMCA KANAWANA FOR MORE INFORMATION CONCERNING EACH CERTIFICATION 

AND TRAINING.

All our guides are trained in the following areas during our home training to ensure that 

they are prepared for the unexpected and we are fully confident in their skills to provide 

the best experience possible to your child:

•  Orienteering, maps and compass
•  Group dynamics and management
•  Equipment management and repairs
•  Outdoor cooking and food management
•  Team building
•  Risk management
•  Hygiene and health monitoring
•  Leadership theories and their applications
•  Survival and environmental education activities
•  Ages and stages of child development
•  Emergency procedures (including simulations)
•  Knots and shelter building
•  Behavioural management
•  Weather reading
•  First aid review

37

PREPARATION GUIDECamp YMCA Kanawana CANOE TRIP SAFETY

Physical expectations for participants

Canoe tripping is a strenuous physical activity and it is important to understand that we 

do our best to support your child in this activity, but that a good level of fitness is required 

to live a truly pleasant experience. Every camper at the beginning of each camp session 

will have to participate in a swim test performed by our waterfront team, where they will 

have to demonstrate that they can swim 150 metres without a PFD. Therefore, we reserve 

the right to refuse a participant if we deem they are not sufficiently able to cope with the 

physical demands of a canoe trip.

Canoe trip safety protocols at camp  
YMCA Kanawana

Risk management is our priority and we have strict protocols in place for all our canoe 

tripping programs. Any high-risk activity undertaken in a Camp YMCA Kanawana canoe 

trip must abide by a health and hygiene protocol, a portaging protocol, a white-water 

protocol, along with a complete risk management plan concerning each activity 

undertaken (canoeing, cooking, driving, fire building, etc.). Your child’s safety and well-

being are our top priorities.

Inherent risks to canoe tripping

Canoe tripping is a high-risk activity and presents certain hazards that are inherent  

to participating in any canoe trip. According to Aventure Écotourisme Québec, here are 

the risks inherent to canoe tripping:

Inherent risks due to the weather:
•  Heat stroke, heat exhaustion, sunburn, dehydration, hypothermia, wind, lightning, 

precipitations, season and lack of visibility.

Inherent risks due to the environment:

•  Waterfalls, holes, current, human construction, rocks, strainers.

Inherent risks due to being on water:

•  Capsizing, drowning, minor injuries (scrapes, bumps), major injuries (shoulder dislocation, 

spinal injury), difficulty reaching a participant, fatigue, injury due to material being 

inappropriately attached or fitted, stress or fear, medical complications.

38

PREPARATION GUIDECamp YMCA Kanawana Inherent risks to portaging:

•  Boat falling on participants, material falling on participants, struck by falling tree or 

branches, sprain due to the state of the trails, insect bites and stings, fatigue.

Inherent risks due to the participants:

•  Lack of knowledge, bad swimmer, and misunderstanding of the information provided, 

refusal to follow the leaders’ instructions, and personal flotation device misfit.

As a part of our risk management plan, we keep participants informed of all risks in 

activities along with the expectations we have of them. This involves informing them of 

such things as the daily schedule, trip routes, as well as safety briefings and any high-risk 

activity. We focus our efforts on risk prevention while out on trip (i.e., hydration, sunscreen, 

food intake). Also, each route is planned based on the capabilities of participants and  

are adaptable to the group dynamic and energy level.

Safety equipment brought on trip

In order to ensure that our trips are safe, we ensure that each canoe trip leaves  

with the following items:

•  A functional and tested satellite phone

•  A fully stocked survival kit

•  A fully stocked first aid kit for wilderness purposes, verified prior to each trip

•  A fully stocked repair kit

•  Flare guns with at least 4 flares

•  A functional GPS tracking device

•  Appropriate maps, compass and route plan for the canoe trip

•  One extra meal for every trip and an additional meal for every 4 days on trip

•  Emergency phone contact list

•  Evacuation routes and driving directions

•  White-water rescue kit when applicable (carabiners, rescue line, webbing,  

pulleys, prussic chord) when applicable

•  Each PFD must be equipped with whistles

•  Extra paddles (one per boat)

•  Bailers for each boat

•  Painters for each boat (rope for guiding the boat)

•  Flashlight for each boat

39

PREPARATION GUIDECamp YMCA Kanawana A copy of the information for each canoe trip including a detailed route plan of  

the canoe trip and of all the participants emergency information is kept in the camp  

office at all times during the canoe trip to ensure informed and rapid intervention  

in the event of an emergency.

Available communications

In remote locations, communications have always represented a challenge for canoe 

trippers. This is why we provide a satellite phone to each canoe trip leaving our main 

property, along with a GPS tracking device. This enables our trip leaders to communicate 

with camp or appropriate authorities in the event of an emergency or in need of a 

route change. It is important to understand that they are able to communicate with us, 

but unfortunately, we are typically unable to communicate with them. A designated 

emergency responder at camp is reachable 24 hours a day by cellular phone and by 

satellite phone to ensure that there is always a presence ready to initiate logistical support 

in the event of an emergency.

40

PREPARATION GUIDECamp YMCA Kanawana ON A CANOE TRIP

First aid kits on trips

Each canoe trip leaves with a fully stocked first aid kit specifically assembled in a 

waterproof case for a wilderness context. First aid kits contain the following items:

Burns and bleeds

Injuries

Tools

•  Gauzes (sterile and non-sterile)
•  Band aids (various shapes and sizes)
•  Mole skin
•  Second skin
•  Opsite and butterfly stitches
•  Steri strips
•  Abdominal pads
•  Medical tape
•  Irrigation syringe

Medication

•  Tylenol and Advil
•  Anti-histamine
•  Antibiotic ointment
•  Epipen and extra vials of epinephrine
•  Calamine lotion and aloe gel
•  Tea tree oil and activated charcoal

•  Triangular bandages
•  Sam splints
•  Elastic bandage
•  Thermal blankets
•  Ice pack
•  Hypafix

•  Blood pressure cuffs
•  Stethoscope
•  Thermometer
•  Tweezers
•  Scissors
•  Pocket masks
•  Hand sanitizer
•  Gloves
•  Alcohol and  

benzoic-acid wipes

•  Activated charcoal
•  Electrolyte solution
•  Antifungal cream
•  Antibiotic solution for ear  

and eye infection

Trip first-aid material is kept under lock and key at camp and is verified prior to departure 

by the trip leaders and our Equipment Manager to ensure that the equipment is complete 

and in good state. (NOTE: All our wilderness medicine protocols are reviewed and 

certified by a doctor to allow our staff to practise wilderness responder treatments).

41

PREPARATION GUIDECamp YMCA Kanawana Evacuation from a canoe trip

Our canoe trip leaders are trained to provide first responder treatments in the wilderness. 

If an evacuation of your child is required, this could take up to 48 hours and is the norm 

in the outdoor industry due to distance, bad weather or bad road access. We attempt our 

best to be as efficient as possible when an evacuation occurs and have a staff member 

specifically trained to perform these out in the wilderness. In the event where your child 

would be evacuated by air or road, our Hike and Trip Director will contact you directly 

 to inform you of the situation as soon as safely possible.

To the canoe trip destination

All canoe trip participants are transported in a 15-person bus driven by one of our  

Camp YMCA Kanawana drivers, which is inspected prior to, and after every drive.  

The group must be informed of all safety regulations in the vehicle prior to departure  

and a stop is planned en route for a bathroom break and a stretch outside of the vehicle. 

Camp YMCA Kanawana owns a safe and appropriate trailer to carry all canoe trip 

equipment and a van lunch is provided for the participants to reach the destination.  

Music, cheering and singing are a big hit with every group and our staff members ensure 

that the drive is enjoyable and exciting! (Please inform us if your child suffers from car 

sickness so we can better adjust the driving route).

Meet our drivers

Our drivers are nice and courteous individuals that pride themselves on ensuring the safety 

and the comfort of their passengers. All our drivers have their 4b license are aged 25 years 

old and over and have extensive driving experience along with a good driving record.  

All our drivers are trained in the following areas during our in-house training to ensure that 

they are prepared for the unexpected and we are fully confident in their skills to provide 

the best experience possible to your child:

•  Mechanics and basic motor functions
•  Road safety and the highway safety code
•  Maneuvers with a trailer
•  Wheel change and other basic repairs on the road
•  Test run driving
•  Vehicle inspections
•  Trailer safety
•  Passenger management and safety
•  Driving in various weather

42

PREPARATION GUIDECamp YMCA Kanawana 