
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION 
OF THE CANADIAN 
CAMPING ASSOCIATION 


L'ASSOCIATION DES 
CAMPS DU CANADA - 
PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 











LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


May I commend you on your edit¬ 
orial in the summer issue of “Cana¬ 
dian Camping”. I think it was the 
best editorial on young people that I 
have ever read. 

We have made copies of this and 
circulated them to all our residential 
and day camp staff. I have read it to 
a large group who were honouring 
Miss Norma Lloyd on her twenty- 
fifth anniversary with the Depart¬ 
ment. Several people asked me 
afterward if I had copies of the 
article, and I referred them to “Cana¬ 
dian Camping”. 

Too often we condemn our young 
people without honouring them for 
their contributions to our society. I 
think your editorial pays honour and 
gives them the respect that is due to 
them. 

Thanks for your work over the 
past four years as editor. I think you 
have brought to “Canadian Camp¬ 
ing” a dedication of hard work that 
has been evidenced in any event 
that you have worked on over the 
years. 

George H. Matthews 
President 

Camping Association of 
Nova Scotia 



Photo: Jay Haddad 


CONTENTS 


Autumn 1986 


The President’s Message/Un Message de la Presidente 
by/par Janet Adamson 


Vol. 37, No. 3 


6 Camping ... A Retrospective - Counselling the Counsellors 
by Elizabeth Raymer 

10 Camping Advisor 

by Jay Haddad 

11 Camping ... A Retrospective - CCA Comes of Age 

by Doug McEwen 

12 Camping ... The Last Word 


Including Special Insert - 1985-86 Publications Catalogue 

Cover Photo: Jay Haddad 
Layout: Marjorie Booth 


Canadian Camping is an official publication of 
the Canadian Camping Association/Association 
des Camps du Canada. Canadian Camping 
(ISSN 008-3119) is published quarterly. CCA/ACC 
membership includes a subscription; non-mem¬ 
ber subscriptions in Canada $6.00 a year or 
$15.00-3 years. Send address changes to CCA/ 
ACC, 1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2,Toronto, Ontario 
M5M 3Z1. 

Material in Canadian Camping may not be 
reproduced in any form, without written permis¬ 
sion of the editor. Copyright 1985 Canadian 
Camping Association/Association des Camps 
du Canada. 

Editorial Policy 

Jay Haddad, Editor 

The ideas expressed in the Editorial are those of 
the Editorial Committee and not necessarily 
those of the Canadian Camping Association/ 
Association des Camps du Canada. The views 
are expressed to provide stimulation and com¬ 
ment. We invite you to respond in “Letters to the 
Editor” to Canadian Camping, 1806 Avenue Rd., 
Suite 2, Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1. 


2 



EDITORIAL 

Moral Choices! 


It’s an interesting reflection for those of us occupied in the “People 
professions” to examine how we debate and discuss ethical issues among 
ourselves and to initiate certain exercises which promote moral develop¬ 
ment in our campers - but at the same time, science is spiralling out of 
control! 

With genetic programming, in vitro fertilizations, pain control, surrogate 
gestation, active and passive euthanasia, ultra-sound monitoring and many 
many procedures rapidly advancing our scientific capabilities, our ethical 
and moral decision-making ability lags light-years behind the scope of 
science. There are children running around in school playgrounds today 
who were conceived in a test tube in a scientific laboratory and we, as 
adults, are still mired in discussing the ethics - pro and con - of such a 
procedure. 

A college co-ed can easily fetch $2,000.00 for a nine-month rental of her 
womb to a couple incapable of child-bearing because of the wife’s infertility. 
The college student receives tuition money and living expenses and also 
may feel she’s providing a service for a couple who otherwise wouldn't be 
able to share the miracle of childbirth - now, through her, they can! She has 
legally stated that the fetus, upon birth becoming a baby, belongs to the 
infertile couple. Is there any wrong with this? Should anyone intervene and, 
if so, who? The police? Children’s Aid? Should politicians enact legislation 
promoting or forbidding these services? 

Ten years ago in the New Jersey Supreme Court, the parents of Karen Ann 
Quinlan won the right to remove their daughter from life-support systems in 
order to allow nature to take its course. As nature would have it, Karen Ann 
lived in a comatose state, free of respirators, for ten years prior to her death 
earlier this year. This act of “passive euthanasia” divided the country's moral 
conscience as many called the Quinlan’s heroic and honourable while 
others called them unethical and anti-God! Did they truly love their daughter 
or was their victory in the Supreme Court an easy attempt to give up on their 
daughter’s struggle for life itself? 

Perhaps no other man in North America has caused us to think more 
about “active euthanasia” than Derek Humphry. Formerly from Great Britain, 
he received notoriety when he gave a lethal dose of poison to his terminally- 
ill wife (she had asked him for it and a friend, a medical doctor, had prepared 
it for them). He wrote a book entitled “Jean’s Way’’ where he described their 
life together, their love, and their pact; he later founded the Hemlock Society 
in England, currently with Canadian and American chapters. He has 
appeared on many national talk-shows and he recently wrote “Let Me Die 
Before I Wake”, a book that Canadian Customs attempted to ban because 
they feared it was a "recipe” book on how to die. More than anything else, it 
gets people discussing vital issues like life, love, death, pain, terminal illness 
and our ability to assume control over our destiny on several of these 
matters. One reason it’s very important to discuss morals and ethics is to 
comprehend the notion that they are never absolute - what is right for one 
person may be wrong for another! Added to this, modern medicine 
frequently tosses moral and ethical questions back on to a family’s 
collective lap for them to make a decision; at this point, it definitely helps to 
know what the ill or dying person has stated or declared or would declare 
had he/she been able to do so. It’s this area of deciding for someone else 
which has left many families split down the middle with a great deal of 
acrimony and bitterness involved. Many states (about twenty) now have a 
Living Will and Durable Power of Attorney, where people of sound mind and 
body declare what their will would be should they ever be unable to think, 
act or make decisions on their own behalf. 

Florida and Texas, among other states, are considering changing 
century-old immunity from prosecution to clergy, who frequently hear of 


criminal acts which have been committed or which are going to be 
committed, and they (the clergy) refuse to notify authorities or families (as in 
cases of sexual abuse). Many fundamental questions about rights, consti¬ 
tutionality, religious commitment to privacy are being opened and examined 
as never before. What would you do if you were a priest and you heard in a 
confessional that the person sitting two feet away from you was going to 
commit an act of murder very shortly? This question, unfortunately, is not 
hypothetical! 

Moral choices are unavoidable and for this reason, above all else, they 
should be discussed whether hypothetical or real, between Director and 
Staff or between Staff and campers. Examine a few possibilities: 

Would you, a counsellor, tell your fellow counsellors what salary you were 
earning, if asked? Do you think Staff salaries should be public knowledge 
throughout the camp or not? 

Suppose that a counsellor tells you, the Section Head, something that he 
did that would cause him to be fired if the Director found out. What criteria 
are used to determine whether or not you remain faithful to the counsellor 
under you or do you go to the Director over you? What if you choose not to 
go to the Director and the Director later find out you knew all along? What if 
you go immediately to the Director and a “good” counsellor is fired and you 
are now perceived as a “squealer”? 

Suppose a 15-year-old female camper tells you, her counsellor, that she 
had sexual intercourse with a 19-year-old male tripper. Would you 
automatically believe her? Would you confront the tripper yourself? Would 
you automatically run to the Camp Director? 

What if a coun sellor told you, a fel low coun sellor, that he stole something 
from the camp office; do you remain loyal to your friend or loyal to the camp? 

What if you are asked by your best friend to “cover” for her because she 
has accepted a date with someone other than her boyfriend; she wants you 
to lie to her boyfriend if he should happen to call. Is lying an ethical choice 
given the circumstances? Sometimes? Never? 

You, a Camp Director, are walking past a Staff cabin late at night; you hear 
your name and stop in your tracks. You continue to listen and find yourself 
moving closer to the screen through which you can hear the conversation 
clearly. You listen as four of your Staff members cut you up for a decision you 
made earlier in the week; gradually, the conversation shifts and they begin 
making assumptions about your personal life which are disparaging and 
this upsets you greatly. What do you do? Must you “bite the bullet” and 
accept the fact that you were “eavesdropping” which is hardly ethical to 
begin with? Would you confront the four Staff members and attempt to 
defend yourself? 

Moral choices are unavoidable - and the more we talk about them, the 
better equipped we are to assimilate diverse opinions and to embark on a 
course of action that we genuinely feel is correct In many cases, there are 
no such answers as “right” or “wrong” but answers which vary in degrees 
of appropriateness. Kate Millet recently said that “moral decisions are the 
real intensity of not only our intellect, but our emotions! They are far more 
interesting than anything else.” The truly exciting decisions we all have as 
free-willed individuals deal with life, love, pain, lust, anger, honesty, 
temptation, revenge, forgiveness, jealousy and soon. Helping young people 
to make autonomous, critical decisions and assume responsibility for those 
decisions should be a high priority in education, camp discussions and 
development of moral philosophy. Open discussions about all of life’s 
sensitive issues are as essential as they are unavoidable in attempting to 
enhance a child’s understanding of our complex and fast-moving world. 
Keep talking! 


3 



EDITORIAL 

Les choix morauxi 


Pour nous, qui sommes engages dans des professions liberates, il est 
interessant d’examiner les d6bats et les discussions au sujet de la morale et 
d’offrir un champ d'6panouissement des valeurs morales de nos campeurs 
- mais en meme temps, les progres de la science nous bombardent! 

Avec la programmation g6n6tique, la fertilisation in-vitro, le controle de la 
douleur, la “gestation substitute” (surrogate gestation), I’euthanasie active 
et passive, les examens aux ultra-sons et plusieurs autres proctdts, nos 
capacitts scientifiques se dtveloppent rapidement mais nos aptitudes £ 
prendre des decisions conformes a la morale sont beaucoup trop lentes par 
rapport au progrts de la science. II y a aujourd’hui des enfants qui courent 
dans les pares d’amusement qui ont ttt congus en laboratoires et nous, 
adultes, sommes encore t discuter le pour et le contre de tels proetdts. 

Une ttudiante peut facilement obtenir $2000.00 pour la location de son 
sein pour une ptriode de neuf mois, pour un couple incapable d’avoir des 
enfants du a I’infertilite de la femme. L’6tudiante regoit de I’argent pour ses 
depenses et elle sent qu’elle rend service & un couple qui, autrement, ne 
pourrait partager le miracle de la naissance- maintenant, grace & elle, ils 
peuvent! Elle declare aussi que I’enfant, a la naissance, appartient au 
couple infertile. Y a-t-il quelque chose de mal dans ce fait? Est-ce que 
quelqu’un devrait intervenir et, si oui, qui? La police? L’Aide & I’Enfance? 
Est-ce que les politiciens devraient tmettre des lois encourageant ou 
interdisant ces services? 

Ilya dix ans, £ la Cour Supreme du New Jersey, les parents de Karen Ann 
Quinlan ont regu le droit de retirer le syst&me de support qui gardait leur fille 
en vie afin de permettre a la nature de suivre son cours. Karen Ann a vtcu 
pendant dix ans pr£c£dant sa mort, survenue plus tot cette annde. Cet acte 
“d’euthanasie passive” a divis£ la conscience du pays. Plusieurs parlaient 
des Quinlan comme etant h6roiques et honorables alors que d’autres les 
consid6raient comme 6tant immoraux et contre Dieu! Est-ce qu’ils aimaient 
vraiment leur fille ou si leur victoireen Cour Supreme 6tait une fagon simple 
d’abandonner la lutte pour la vie de leur fille? 

Aucun homme en Amerique du Nord nous a fait plus r6fl6chir au sujet de 
‘Teuthanasie active" que Derek Humphry. Natif de la Grande-Bretagne, il a 
regu notori6t6 quand il a donn6 une dose mortelle de poison & sa femme 
atteinte d’une maladie incurable. (Elle le lui avait demande et un ami, un 
medecin, I’avait pr^paree pour eux.) II a ecrit un livre intitule “Jean’s Way" ou 
il decrit leur vie ensemble, leur amour et leur pacte; il a plus tard fonde la 
society Hemlock en Angleterre, represents au Canada etaux Etats-Unis. II 
est apparu a plusieurs reprises au reseau de television national et a 
rSemment ecrit “Let Me Die Before I Wake” un livre que les douanes 
canadiennes voulaient bannir de peur qu’il soit consider comme un livre 
de "recettes" sur la fagon de mourir. Entre autre chose, ceci anrtene les gens 
a discuter de questions vitales telles que la vie, I'amour, la douleur, les 
maladies incurables et notre capacity d’assumer un certain controle sur 
notre propre destinS. Une des raison pour laquelle il est important de 
discuter de morale et d’ethique e’est qu’il est nSessaire de comprendre la 
notion qu’elles ne sont jamais absolues- ce qui est bien pour une personne 
est peut-dtre mal pour une autre! Ajoutee k cela, la rrtedecine moderne 
rejette souvent sur la famille les questions de morale et d’ethique et e’est a 
elle que revient le soin de prendre la decision; a ce point, il est important de 
savoir ce que la personne malade ou mourante desire ou desirerait si elle 
etait capable de prendre la decision elle-meme. Cette responsabilite de 
decider pour quelqu’un d'autre divise souvent les families et laisse derriere 
elle beaucoup d’amertume et d’acrimonie. Plusieurs etats (environ vingt) ont 
maintenant un “Testament Vivant” et un “Mandat Durable" ou les gens sains 
de corps et d’esprit d£clarent ce que serait leur volonte s'ils devenaient 
incapables de penser, d’agir ou de prendre des decisions par eux-memes. 


La Floride et le Texas considered changer I’immunite de juridiction 
attribute aux membres du clerge qui souvent, entendent parler d’actes 
criminels qui ont ete commis ou qui seront commis et ils refused d'en 
avertir les families (comme dans les cas d’abus sexuels). Plusieurs 
questions fondamentales au sujet des droits, de la constitutionnalite, de 
I’engagement religieux £ la confidentiality sont ouvertes et examinees en 
profondeur. Qu’est-ce que vous feriez si vous etiez un pretre et que vous 
entendiez dans un confessional que la personne £ deux pieds de vous va 
commettre un meurtre? Cette question, malheureusement n’est pas hypo- 
thetique. 

Les choix moraux sont inevitables qu’ils soient hypothetiques ou reels. 
C’est pour cette raison qu’ils devraient etre discutes entre directeur et 
employes ou entre employes et campeurs. Examinons quelques possibilites: 

En tant que moniteur, iriez-vous dire a vos amis moniteurs quel salaire 
vous gagnez si ils vous le demandaient? Pensez-vous que le salaire du 
personnel devrait etre connu publiquement dans le camp ou non? 

Vous etes chef de section. Supposons qu'un de vos moniteur vous dise 
qu’il a fait quelque chose susceptible de le faire renvoyer si le directeur 
I’apprenait. Sur quels criteres vous basez-vous pour determiner si vous 
restez fiddle au moniteur ou si vous allez le dire au directeur? Qu’arrivera-t- 
il si vous choisissez de ne pas le dire au directeur et que celui-ci apprend 
plus tard que vous le saviez depuis le debut? Qu’arrivera-t-il si vous le dites 
au directeur et qu’un “bon” moniteur se fait renvoyer et que vous £tes 
maintenant pergu comme un “bavasseur"? 

Vous etes moniteur et une campeuse de 15 ans vous dit qu’elle a eu des 
relations sexuelles avec un excursionniste de 19 ans. Est-ce que vous allez 
la croire? Est-ce que vous allez faire face au jeune homme vous-mSme? 
Iriez-vous voir le directeur du camp? 

Qu’est-ce que vous feriez si votre meilleure amie vous demandait de 
mentir parce qu’elle a accepte de sortir avec un autre gargon; elle veut que 
vous mentiez si jamais son ami appelait. Est-ce que mentir est un choix 
moral dans ces circonstances? Quelquefois? Jamais? 

Vous, un directeur de camp, passezdevant la cabinedu personnel tard le 
soir; vous entendez votre nom et vous vous arretez. Vous continuez 
d'6couter et vous vous retrouvez pres de la fenetre d’ou vous pouvez 
entendre clairement la conversation. Quatre membres du personnel sont 
en train de critiquer une decision que vous avez prise plus tot dans la 
semaine; la conversation passe alors en revue votre vie personnels et loin 
d’etre flats vous en §tes boulevers£. Qu’est-ce que vous faites? Devez- 
vous “mordre la poussiere” et accepter le fait que vous 'Scoutiez aux 
portes”? Cela ne fait pas partie de la bonne etiquette! Feriez-vous face aux 
membres du personnel dans le but de vous d£fendre? 

Les choix moraux sont inevitables - et plus on en parle, plus nous 
sommes prepares a assimiler les diverses opinions et poser les gestes qui 
nous semblent approprtes. Dans plusieurs cas, il n’y a pas de “bonnes" ou 
de “mauvaises" reponses. Elies varient selon leur degr£ de justesse. Kate 
Millet a dit r^cemment que “les decisions morales ne sont pas seulement 
I’intensite teelle de notre esprit mais aussi de nos emotions! Elies sont 
beaucoup plus importantes que tout le reste.” Les decisions que nous 
devons prendre en tant qu’individus libres, sont au sujet de la vie, de 
I’amour, de la douleur, de la convoitise, de la cotere, de I’honnetete, de la 
tentation, de la vengence, du pardon, de la jalousie, etc. Aider les jeunes £ 
devenir autonomes, £ d£velopper un I’esprit critique et £ assumer la 
responsabilite de leurs decisions devrait etre une priority dans I’education, 
les discussions dans les camps et dans le d^veloppement d’une morale 
philosophique. Des discussions ouvertes au sujet de toutes les questions 
dglicates de la vie sont aussi essentielles qu'ingvitables afin d’encourager 
les jeunes & comprendre ce monde qui evolue si rapidement. Parlons-en! 


UN MESSAGE DE 
LA PRESIDENTE 


THE 

PRESIDENT’S 

MESSAGE 

By: Janet Adamson 

In 1986 CCA/ACC will be celebrating fifty years 
of service to children and youth in Canada. 

As I write this in late September our CCA/ACC 
reorganization efforts continue. Hopefully by the 
time you read this the CCA/ACC will have 
adopted plans to strengthen and streamline our 
structure. Funding discussions will have taken 
place at the Board Meeting in October in Fred¬ 
ericton and initiatives will be underway Fitness 
Canada, represented by Karen O’Neill our con¬ 
sultant, is participating in many discussions 
with CCA/ACC and our funding although chang¬ 
ing is not disappearing. 

Our core costs, for example the office, post¬ 
age, secretary and travel, are still a problem but 
with reorganization and more aggressive fund 
raising tactics suggested by consultant John 
Fisher this area will be covered. 

Each provincial board is involved in these 
discussions of reorganization, as your repre¬ 
sentative. However, eventually, actually in the 
near future, your individual support, interest and 
perhaps participation will be required to make 
CCA/ACC a truly national association repre¬ 
senting all camps in Canada. There is no 
magical mysterious ‘‘they’’ publishing newslet¬ 
ters, selling books, running national conferences 
and all the rest. CCA/ACC is a coming together 
of nine provincial associations and their mem¬ 
bers and we need every one of those members 
to be committed in some way to CCA/ACC in 
order to meet the challenges of the next 50 years. 



Canada 


par Janet Adamson 

L’annee 1986 marquera les cinquante ans de 
service de la CCA/ACC aupres des enfants et 
de la jeunesse du Canada. 

Au moment de preparer ce message a la fin 
de septembre, nous poursuivions toujours nos 
efforts en vue de restructurer la CCA/ACC. 
J’espere qu’au moment de lire ces lignes, nous 
auronsadopteune strategic pour la refonte etle 
renforcement de sa structure. Des pourparlers 
sur les moyens de se procurer des fonds ont ete 
entames a la reunion du conseil tenue a Frede¬ 
ricton, en octobre et des demarches sont en 
cours. De nombreuses rencontres ont eu lieu 
entre la CCA/ACC et la Condition Physique que 
notre conseillere Karen O’Neill represente. Nous 
continuerons de toucher des fonds mais non de 
la meme fagon qu’avant. 

Les frais essentiels tels que ceux de bureau, 
d’envois postaux, de secretariat et de voyage 
posent un probleme remanent mais nous par- 
viendrons a le resoudre au moyen dune meil- 


leure organisation et de savantes tactiques que 
nous propose notre conseiller John Fisher pour 
trouver des fonds. 

Chaque conseil provincial a son mot a dire 
aux rencontres sur la reorganisation. Eventuel- 
lement, et en fait, dans un avenir rapproche, 
nous devrons compter sur votre appui person¬ 
nel, votre interet et peut-etre sur votre participa¬ 
tion, pour faire de la CCA/ACC une veritable 
association nationale au service de tous les 
camps du Canada. II n’y a rien qui se fasse par 
enchantement ... la publication de communi¬ 
ques, la vente de livres, I’organisation de con- 
gres nationaux et tout le reste. La CCA/ACC se 
compose de neuf provinces qui forment avec 
leurs membres un tout homogene et chacun de 
leurs membres doit s’engager d’une fagon ou 
d’une autre a relever les defis qui se poseront le 
long du parcours de la CCA/ACC durant les 
cinquante prochaines annees. 



5 


CAMPING... A RETROSPECTIVE 
Counselling the counsellors 

As presented at the Ontario Conference, March 1963 
By: Elizabeth Raymer, Camp Tanamakoon 


Each year we spend many hours and much 
energy selecting the staff we are going to work 
with during the season ahead. Each year we 
close that season and for many days our 
thoughts are filled with the events and person¬ 
alities of the days just passed. It is common¬ 
place knowledge that “hind sight is better than 
foresight”. We all have sudden illuminating mo¬ 
ments - when it is too late - moments when we 
say to ourselves “this is what I should have done 
- this technique would have been better than 
that - why didn’t I think of that at the time?” 

And so the first step in this “counselling the 
counsellor” business is to provide yourself with 
a large notebook - and to use that notebook at 
the close of the season and throughout the 
winter. Put down those flashes of infinite wisdom 
so that they may be of use to you in the future. 
Then as the season approaches, study the note¬ 
book and decide just when and how you will use 
this problem-solving compendium. 

This morning we are to devote our considera¬ 
tion to the in-camp aspect of our problem. We 
will assume that the counsellor staff has been 
carefully interviewed, assessed, assigned to 
jobs - that it has been made aware of the exist¬ 
ence of rules, regulations, philosophies, aims, 
etc. before each member signed a contract. We 
will further assume that that staff has had a few 
days of training, resident in the camp, during 
which days every effort has been made to orient 
this group to duties and programme organization 
for the weeks ahead. I shall further assume that 
during this pre-camp period the director has 
mingled with this group, talked with its members, 
and observed its spirit, so that now that director 
has a glimmering of what he is to deal with 
during the summer. There are undoubtedly a 
great many learned and technical terms to 
describe the various types of groups. I shall 
avoid them. But those of us who have been 
teachers or group leaders in varying situations 
know that every group is different from every 
other group. Is this a lethargic group or a very 
lively one? Is it noisy or quiet? Is it a very 
intelligent, quick, energetic, problem-solving 
group? Is it one full of individualists who must be 
woven into cohesion? Is it so full of old timers 
that it threatens to split into “old” and “new”? Is it 
passively tractable, a group of “yes-men”? Is it 
the kind that will get into mischief, or is it so full of 
loyalty and honour and reverence for dear old 
Camp Gitchee Gamee, that every whim of the 
director, every slightest regulation of the camp 
will be regarded as sacred? Is it sensitive? Is it 
thick-skinned? 

The second step then is to assess the group. 
Our techniques will have to be adjusted to it. We 
must also bear in mind that at no time will this 



group temper remain static. It will vary with the 
weather and with the activity of the moment. It 
will change as various staff members leave 
camp for time off and out-trips, and assume a 
different aspect on their return. It will change 
with the impact of a mass of visitors. Sometimes 
it will be influenced by forces entirely outside 
camp Gitchee Gamee, such as world affairs and 
local ones. It will be coloured by feelings of 
success and failure, over-stimulation, boredom, 
inequality of labour, by illness or epidemic. It will 
most certainly show the effects of adjusting to a 
new group of campers when one group leaves 
and another arrives at camp. And so must the 
director’s awareness of the group chanqe. 

And how does one achieve this awareness? 
By the use of one’s God-given senses. For we 
directors learn in the same way that everyone 
else learns, by using our eyes and ears, our 
powers of comprehension and reasoning. One 
can quietly join a group and in a very few 
moments assess the following:- who is present? 
and more important, who is absent? Is this an 
interested, contented group completely en¬ 
grossed in something constructive? Or do a few 
persons appear bored, discontented, angry, 
friendless, or excessively boisterous? Is there 
order or disorder in equipment, organization 
and instructions given to campers or fellow staff 
members? Are we greeted as a welcome friend 
or as a signal for sudden silence or frantic 


activity? Is our arrival heralded by “Psst here he 
comes!” or by “Oh good, here comes the 
director!". Snatches of conversation float about 
on the air - the pitch, the intonation, if not the 
words themselves register themselves with us; 
so do facial expressions. All these things we 
can learn without opening our mouths or a 
learned book on the subject. 

Every camp director knows the truth of that 
very familiar statement “a camp is only as good 
as its counsellors”. No amount of stupendous 
equipment can offset the effects of inept leader¬ 
ship. No camp director, no matter how talented 
and energetic, can provide all the leadership a 
camp demands. So, here we are - this is our 
counsellor staff and this year, as every year, we 
are striving toward perfection. How can we so 
lead and support these counsellors that they too 
can strive for perfection in the execution of their 
jobs? 

First - this group must be made aware of what 
its job is as a total staff. In other words the 
individual must know that his contribution is 
important to the whole. “We as staff hope to 
achieve these things: 

1. A camp which is truly for the camper. 

2. Such co-ordination and co-operation that no 
aspect of our total operation will be weak at 
any time. 

Continued 


6 


PUBLICATIONS 

1985-86 



CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU CANADA 

Suite 2, 1806 Avenue Road, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5M 3Z1 
Telephone: (416) 781-4717 








CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

The Canadian Camping Association was founded in 
1936 as a non-profit organization. It is a national 
federation of provincial camping associations uniting the 
camping leaders into an organization involved in the 
growth, development and promotion of camping in 
Canada. 

All Canadian Camping Association programs and pro¬ 
jects are made possible by membership fees, private 
contributions and funds from Fitness and Amateur 
Sport, Government of Canada. 

The Canadian Camping Association operates a book¬ 
store, primarily as a service to its members. Books of 
interest to camp directors, administrators, parents, 
counsellors and leaders working with children and youth 
in the outdoors are available in the Toronto office or may 
be ordered by mail or telephone. CCA Members receive 
a special discount price on all books (listed in brackets; 
identified by M). 

The books handled by Canadian Camping Association 
are classified into broad categories and listed alphabeti¬ 
cally with a brief description of their contents, the 
publisher and the price. At the end of this catalogue 
there are order forms and an alphabetical index. 

As well as selling books from both Canadian and 
American sources, the Canadian Camping Association 
publishes a number of titles and is the distributor in 
Canada for books published by the American Camping 
Association. 

Terms 

All prices are subject to change without notice. Payment 
due within 30 days of invoice date. 

A service charge of 2% per month on the unpaid balance 
will be added to overdue accounts. 

We do not accept returns except in the case of error or 
damage. Authorization for such returns must be re¬ 
quested in advance. 


ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU CANADA 

LAssociation des camps du Canada, creee en 1936 est 
un organisme ci but non lucratif et une federation 
nationale des associations provinciales de camping 
reunissant les organismes qui se vouent ci la croissance 
et ci I’expansion du camping au Canada. 

Tous les projets et programmes de lAssociation des 
camps du Canada sont realises grace aux cotisations 
des membres, aux contributions des particuliers et aux 
subventions de la Direction generale de la Condition 
physique et du Sport amateur du gouvernement federal. 

LAssociation des camps du Canada offre un service de 
librairie a ses membres. Les livres interessants les 
responsables de camps d’enfants et d’adolescents (direc- 
teurs, administrateurs, parents, conseillers et moniteurs) 
sont disponibles au si&ge social & Toronto. On accepte 
les commandes telephoniques ou postales. 

Nos publications sont divisees en categories generates. 
La liste alphabetique contient un resume succinct de 
chaque publication et indique Pediteur et le prix. A la fin 
du catalogue se trouvent la liste alphabetique des livres 
et des bons de comrYiande. 

LAssociation des camps du Canada vend des livres 
canadiens et americains, ainsi que ses propres publi¬ 
cations. De plus, elle est le distributeur des livres publies 
par PAmerican Camping Association. 

Conditions 

Tous les prix peuvent etre modifies sans preavis. Tous 
les dettes actives sont payable apr&s 30 jours. 

Une surcharge de 2% par mois sera ajoutee aux comptes 
en souffrance. 

Nous n accepterons pas de livres en retour sauf en cas 
d’erreur ou de dommage. II faut en obtenir l’autorisation 
h Pavance. 


CONTENTS 

Camp Administration.1 

Church Affiliated Camping .... 2 

Cookbooks.3 

Crafts.3 

General Program .4 

Health Services.5 


How To Series.6 

Leadership.6 

Miscellaneous.7 

Music.8 

Nature.9 

Philosophy.10 


La Serie Comment Faire.11 

Sports & Games.11 

Tripping.12 

Woodsmanship & Camping.12 

Title Index & Price List.13 

Order Forms.15 





















CCA/ACC PUBLICATIONS 

* - Denotes a Canadian book. All books are soft cover unless otherwise indicated. 

M - CCA Member Price 
■ - New Books in Our Catalogue 


CAMP ADMINISTRATION 


Basic Camp Management $14.85 

Armancl B. and Beverly H. Ball (M — $12.40) 

A practical guide to the art and science of directing a summer camp. 
Especially designed for the new camp director, the book will also provide 
excellent information for the seasoned administrator. The chapters cover: 
program, purpose, and goals, staff, campers, site and facility preparation, 
legal matters, support services, evaluation, and finances. From a combined 
experience of 41 years in the camp field, the authors have produced a 
unique manual of valuable material for camping administrators. 

American Camping Association, 156 p., 1979. 

Camp Director Education Curriculum Guide $11.55 

(M - $9.65) 

Designed as a resource for trainers and college instructors dealing with 
camp director education or camp administration. Each unit contains a 
rationale for the competencies, areas to be covered, suggested learning 
activities, methods of assessment and references. 

American Camping Association, 46 p., 1981. 

Camp Management Technical Information Papers $0.85 each 

(M - $0.70) 

TIP NO. 9 - “The Camp Staff Applicant: Interview Guidelines.” An outline of 
information and guidelines for the camp staff applicant seeking a position. 

American Camping Association, 1979. 

TIP NO. 10 - “The Camp Director: Interview Guidelines.” A discussion of 
interview techniques and practices from the viewpoint of the camp director 
or interviewer. 

American Camping Association, 1979. 

Camp Staff Job Descriptions $2.00 

(M — $1.70) 

Suggested job descriptions for basic camp positions. 

American Camping Association, 17 p., 1961. 

Camp Standards with Interpretations $17.40 

(M - $14.50) 

A complete listing of all standards with explanations by which a camp may 
be accredited by American Camping Association. These standards detail 
the desirable practices that are basic to quality camp operation; and are 
designed to provide a camp seeking to be accredited with the most 
complete information on the process. 

American Camping Association, 77 p., revised 1980. 


Camp Standards - Condensed $4.65 

(M - $3.90) 

An abridged version of the American Camping Association standards, 
sufficient for those who wish a general listing of ACA Standards for 
information purposes. 

American Camping Association, 28 p., 1980. 

Camping Strategies for the Eighties $8.10 

(M - $6.75) 

Proceedings from the National Symposium sponsored by the Indiana, 
Michigan and Ohio Sections of ACA and the Fund for the Advancement of 
Camping. 

American Camping Association, 35 p., 1981. 

Conservation of the Camp Site $2.40 

(M - $2.00) 

A valuable book for all camp directors and administrators. It deals with 
conservation programming and the steps a camp should take to conserve 
and improve their natural features. 

American Camping Association, 48 p., 1960. 

■ (A) Cost Study of Resident Camps, 1985 $24.80 

Arrnand B. Ball , Editor (M — $20.70) 

Marshall Dunbar, Computer Programmer 

This American book is a practical tool for camp directors in financial 
planning and management. The study provides guidelines for camp 
committees and boards opening a new camp or seeking to refine an already 
established operation. The tables cover three types of resident camps: 
private independent, religiously affiliated, and agency. The major tables of 
the study show figures based on a number of subject designations: 
affiliation, geographic scopes, camper community, geographic scope of an 
affiliation, fall, winter, spring operations, breakdown of expense areas, and 
year-round operations. 

American Camping Association. 55 p., 1985. 

Decentralized Camping $21.50 

Lois Goodrich (M — $17.90) 

A handbook on how to administer and program for outdoor living in small 
groups. All aspects are discussed: how to begin, selection of staff, pre-camp 
training, nutrition, the health program, preparing campers and parents, the 
camp program and how well it affects individual campers. Shelters, 
buildings, budgets and maintenance are also covered. 

American Camping Association, 183 p., 1982. 

Fundamentals of Day Camping $22.30 

Dr. Grace L. Mitchell (M — $18.60) 

Fundamentals includes almost any information a day camp administrator 
might need. The book discusses the first steps in establishing a camp, the 
site, buildings and equipment, enrolling the campers, administration, 
finance, insurance, transportation, health and safety, and food. Other 
chapters cover the staff, staff training, and discipline and control of 
campers. The final chapters provide a treasury of day camp program in arts 
and crafts, natural resources, adventures in camping, athletics, music and 
programming for special events and for rainy days. 

American Camping Association, 256 p., 1981. 



1 






■ Learning Disabilities ... 

Doreen Kronick 

• *Camp Directors’ Guide on Integration $3.45 

(M - $2.90) 

Guidelines for Directors of non-specialized camps on integrating children 
with learning disabilities into their camps. 

CACALD/ACETA, 50 p M 1984. 

• *Guide for Directors of Specialized Camps $3.95 

(M - $3.30) 

Guidelines for Directors of specialized camps for children with learning 
disabilities. 

CACALD/ACETA, 38 p., 1984. 

• *Parents’ Guide to Camping $3.95 

(M - $3.30) 

A guide to camping for parents of children with learning disabilities. 
CACALD/ACETA. 24 p. t 1984. 

Making Effective Workshops Happen $4.90 

Denise Robinson (M — $4.10) 

The author discusses the whole range of information in workshop planning, 
from identifying audience needs to evaluation. Included are sections on 
setting goals and objectives, organizing the program, and identifying 
resources and barriers. To illustrate the suggested procedures an example 
of one type of workshop (an awareness workshop on serving disabled 
campers) a resource packet is also available. 

Project Stretch, 10 p., 1982. 


■ Troubles d’Apprentissage ... 

Doreen Kronick 

• *Guide de Camping pour Parents $3.95 

(M $3.30) 

Manuel h 1’usage des parents d£sirant envoyer leur enfant ayant des 
troubles d apprentissage dans une colonie de vacances. 

CACALD/ACETA, 24 p., 1984. 

• *Guide d’integration pour Directeurs de Camps $3.45 

(M $2.90) 

Integration des enfants ayant des troubles d apprentissage dans les colonies 
de vacances: manuel ci (’usage des directeurs de ces camps. 

CACALD/ACETA, 54 p., 1984. 

• *Guide pour Directeurs de Camps Specialises $3.95 

(M - $3.30) 

Manuel 51’usage des directeurs de camps specialises pour enfants ayant des 
troubles d apprentissages. 

CACALD/ACETA, 38 p., 1984. 

Use of Resident Camps for School Programs $2.50 

Dr. Betty van der Smissen (M — $2.10) 

Guidelines developed by ACA Outdoor Education Task Force for camp 
directors who desire to extend their summer resident facilities to schools 
conducting outdoor education programs. They are directed toward the 
initiation of such use and is not a manual for the conduct of such schools. 

American Camping Association, 22 p., 1972. 


*Outdoor Education - Guidelines for Camps $1.20 

Walter D. Mingie (M — $1.00) 

These guidelines for camp directors who are interested in allowing the use 
of their camps by outside groups for outdoor education during the off¬ 
season. They were developed by a committee chaired by Walter D. Mingie 
at an Outdoor Education Conference sponsored by the CCA/ACC at La 
Cal&che, Quebec in 1974. The booklet looks at the administrative, staffing 
and camp resources necessary for such programs and ends with a plan of 
action for those wishing to proceed. 

Canadian Camping Association, 17 p., revised 1981. 

Perspectives on Camp Administration $20.70 

Elizabeth Farley, Editor (M — $17.25) 

An excellent resource for the experienced camp director or one who is 
considering entry into the field. A collection of magazine articles from 
various publications and newly written materials have been compiled 
around specific topics: Philosophic Foundations and Considerations, Life 
Span Development, Administration and Organization, The Camp Program, 
programs for Handicapped Campers, and a View to the Future. 

American Camping Association, 125 p., 1982. 


Trainer Guides: 

Sue Stein, Editor 

• Food Service Managerial 28 p. $4.25 

(M - $3.50) 

• Health and Safety Managerial 27 p. $4.25 

(M - $3.50) 

• Business and Finance Managerial 32 p. $4.25 

(M - $3.50) 

• ■ Serving Campers with Special Needs 22 p., 1982 $9.10 

(M - $7.60) 

The guide centers on the administration and management of a camp 
working with children who have special needs. 

Site and Facilities Managerial 29 p. $4.25 

(M - $3.50) 


Your Camp and the Handicapped Child $2.00 

Dr. Phyllis M. Ford (M - $ 1.70) 

Useful guidelines for director and counsellor dealing with handicapped 
campers. 

American Camping Association, 16 p., 1966. 



CHURCH AFFILIATED 
CAMPING 


Church Family Camps and Conferences $4.25 

Elizabeth and William Genne (M — $3.55) 

A detailed manual for the administrator of camps and conference programs 
in the church. The authors, experts in the field, guide you through every 
step of the planning process: goals, sites, facilities, equipment, personnel, 
program activities, scheduling, evaluation, follow-up and much more. There 
are suggestions for serving families with special needs - parents without 
partners, three generation families, older couples and families with handi¬ 
capped members. 

Judson Press, 77 p., 1979. 

God, Man, Land: Interrelationship Programs for Camps $8.40 

Dr. Paul Paetkau (M — $7.00) 

The author has a Ph.D. in biology education and is a consultant on environ¬ 
mental matters. His book provides a theology of Christian camping and 
some general principles in working with church groups. The programs are 
divided into suggested topics for ages 9-11, 12-13, and 14-16. A section on 
resources introduces additional material and activities. Delightfully written 
and logically organized, this is a plus for a church leader working with 
children on outdoor topics. 

Faith and Life Press, 155 p., 1978. 


2 





Let’s Teach Bible Games $5.00 

Donna Fillmore (M — $4.20) 

This practical book contains numerous suggestions by which the child’s 
play instinct can be channelled into effective and enjoyable teaching and 
learning experiences through the use of Bible games. 

Baker Book House, 72 p.. 1978. 


■ Object Lessons for Children $6.75 

Luther Cross (M — $5.65) 

These are character-forming stories for children. Each one is preceded by a 
text of Scripture, and embodies a lesson which will never be forgotten when 
presented in the striking manner suggested by this book. 

Baker Book House, 99 p., 1967. 

Object Lessons for Children’s Worship $6.75 

Mary Foxwell Loeks (M — $5.65) 

This book provides a skillfully developed program of songs, memory verse, 
object lessons, correlated Bible story and activity geared to a child’s world. 
The objects used are familiar ones found in most homes or camps and the 
applications made from the objects are clever and unforgettable. 

Baker Book House, 101 p.. 1979. 


a great deal of expensive equipment. An appendix shows menus of two 
typical weeks, a list of minimal equipment, and sample order forms. A 
practical kitchen manual - and one which you will enjoy reading. 

The Kinhaven Music School, 119 p., 1977. 






*n<, Tr £f> 








COOKBOOKS 


*Cookery for Kids, Kamp n’ Kicks $5.95 

Helen E. Stewart (M — $5.00) 

An anthology of recipes used extensively at Camp Wahcahmie in Ontario. 
Tremendous results can be obtained by multiplying these recipes for 6 to 8 
servings by the required number. Aside from delicious ideas for main 
courses, desserts, snacks, there is a section on outdoor cookery and two 
weeks of sample menus. 

Helen E. Stewart, 81 p.. 1969. 

Cooking for Camp and Trail $10.70 

Hasse Bunnelle & Shirley Sarvis (M — $8.95) 

A Sierra Club Totebook includes 200 recipes for breakfasts, trail snacks, 
lunches, suppers, desserts and beverages. Additional information on 
preparation: planning, purchasing, timing and temperature variables. Super 
appendices cover packaging, equipment and cooking tips. 

Sierra Club. 194 p.. 1972. 

*Cookout Manual $4.95 

Sue Whitney (M — $4.15) 

Developed especially for Day Camp Cookouts. this manual provides some 
new and exciting ideas for both small and large cookouts. The recipes have 
been divided into six major groups according to Canada’s Food Guide. 
There are 35 tested recipes. 

City of Etobicoke, Parks and Recreation, 24 p., 1979. 


Kinhaven Cookbook $12.00 

John Ahern (M — $10.00) 

The alternate title is: How We Feed 120 People. Delightfully written, the 
cookbook from Kinhaven Music School in Vermont combines the practical 
know-how gleaned from years of experience in feeding 120 people three 
times a day with warm, friendly instructions and advice to anyone who 
cooks for large groups. It is written by and for amateur cooks and the 
recipes are in detail and very workable for a kitchen which operates without 


Simple Foods for the Pack $12.00 

Vikki Kinmont & Claudia Axcell (M — $9.95) 

This Sierra Club book is a guide to using whole natural foods while 
backpacking. It shows how to carry simple meals that offer nourishment, 
balance, low cost and good health. The foods are light-weight and long- 
lasting. and the recipes easily packed and prepared. Delicious peanut butter 
fudge! 

Sierra Club, 211 p., 1976. 


*Wanapitei Canoe Trippers’ Cookbook $7.15 

Carol Hodgins (M — $5.95) 

“Wilderness cooking for fun and nutrition” is the subtitle of this informative 
book of recipes. It has evolved from the experiences of Mrs. Hodgins and 
the staff of Wanapitei, a wilderness canoeing camp on Lake Temagami, 
Ontario. As well as many pages of delicious recipes, there are sections on 
nutrition, types and quantities of food, cost, packing, preparation and 
cooking and many other suggestions to make this important part of any 
canoe trip a success. 

Highway Book Shop, 87 p., 1982. 



(The) Book of Arts and Crafts $8.30 

Marguerite Ickis and Reha S. Esh (M — $6.95) 

This is an almost inexhaustible collection of arts and crafts which can be 
made in a matter of minutes. There are instructions on techniques and 
preparation of materials. A functional index places the projects in the 
category where they can best be used: camps, playgrounds, schools, 
churches, or individuals. Clearly illustrated. 

Dover Publications, Inc., 276 p., 1974. 


3 







(The) Complete How To Book of Indian Crafts $14.35 

W. Ben Hunt (M - $11.95) 

A readable and easy-to-follow text with hand-drawn diagrams shows how to 
use actual techniques and designs developed and perfected by the Indians. 
No special tools or even prior skills are required. In addition, Ben Hunt 
provides a remarkably interesting source of information about the first 
Americans; their highly developed artistry and design; their beliefs and 
traditions. 

Collier MacMillan, 187 p., 1973. 

(The) Indian How Book $9.30 

Arthur C. Parker (Gawaso Wanneh) (M — $7.75) 

How Indians made canoes, tipis, traps, arrowheads, pottery; Indian dances, 
songs, rituals; hunting, cooking, taming animals, more. Elementary level; 
sound anthropologically. 

Dover Publications, Inc., 335 p., 1975. 



GENERAL PROGRAM 


Camp Program Ideas $9.00 

(M - $7.50) 

A collection of favourite special events from coast to coast: special days, 
evening programs, competitive events, inspirational events, meal themes, 
rainy day iictivities and miscellaneous events. The author s permission to 
reproduce this material has allowed the CCA ACC to distribute this book 
at a new and lower price. 

Recreation Department, San Diego State University, 90 p., 1977. 

*Campfire Programs with Jack Pearse $7.00 

Jack Pearse 

A comprehensive campfire treasury which includes not only specific pro¬ 
gram activities but also deals with the theory and philosophy behind camp¬ 
fire program, detailed suggestions for successful song leading and games 
leadership, and a checklist for planning. The author deals with campfires 
from the lighting the fire until the closing moments. He includes storytelling, 
skits, stunts, games, relays, and songs. There are, in addition, five sample 
campfire programs and an extensive bibliography of references. 

Camp Tawingo Publications, 203 p., 1980. 



CAMPFfCE 

PROGRAMS 



\ V ' 

J$> JACK 
^ PEARSE 


*Clouds On the Clothesline (And 200 Other Great Games) $8.25 

Jack Pearse, Jane McCutcheon, Barrie Laughton 

A veritable anthology of games - new ones, old ones, original ones - all 
perfected by use at Camp Tawingo. Chapter One includes a discussion of 
the art of games leadership. Succeeding chapters include many special 
types of games, and the chapter on Specialty Games includes two unusual 
categories of games not generally found in other games books, nature and 
campcraft. The description of each game includes the number of people, 
age group, formation, necessary equipment and instructions for the leader. 
Types of games are: active relays, active games, semi-active relays and 
games, mixers, musical games, quizzes, and quiet games. 

Camp Tawingo Publications, 226 p., 1981. 

Cows Tails and Cobras $17.30 

Karl Rohnke (M - $14.45) 

This guide to rope courses, initiative games and other adventure activities 
deals with the perspective of: increasing the participant s personal confi¬ 
dence, increasing mutual support within a group, increasing the level of 
agility and coordination and increasing his familiarity with clear, precise 
instructions. 

Project Adventure, 156 p.. 1977. 

Day Camp Program Book $23.30 

Virginia IV. Musselman (M — $19.45) 

Revised edition of original activity manual for day camp counsellors. Four 
basic sections include: basics for counsellors, environmental activities, 
related program activities and composite program. Chapters also include 
camp emergencies, bus program, council ring programs, trips, weather, and 
sports & fitness. 

New Century. 335 p., 1980. 

Goodtimes Around the Campfire $2.85 

LaRue A. Thurston (M — $2.40) 

This condensation of The Complete Book of Campfire Programs includes 
games, stunts, magic, singing ceremonies, special programs - all kinds of 
fun for camping get-togethers. 

Association Press. 128 p., 1967. 


■ (The) Handbook of Skits and Stunts $16.50 

Helen and Larrv Eisenberg (M — $13.75) 

Over 400 easy-to-do entertainment ideas! Recreation programming for 
large or small groups, for one person or a dozen, for any age group. 
Limitless instant material will provide sparks of fun from immediate use by 
recreation planners, conference and retreat leaders, summer camp program 
coordinators, elementary and high school teachers and troop or club 
leaders. The book includes information on how to make up your own skits, 
one-person skits, impromptu stunts and group stunts and dramas. 

American Camping Association, 172 p., 1984. 

■ High Above the Thundercloud $10.50 

Jack Pearse and Bruce Taylor 

A one-of-a-kind resource for developing a full and rewarding Indian lore 
program as a part of your camp program. A unique and exciting opportunity 
to incorporate a part of our history into the camp setting. There are 
complete Indian council ceremonies which include a call to Council, 
traditional prayers, games, contests, story dances, legends, and closing 
events. All the components are included: how to build a magic fire, how to 
set up a council ring, how to teach native dance steps, how to make a drum, 
and how to perform the ceremonies. The authors have had over 70 years’ 
involvement with Indian traditions and ceremonies, and their expertise 
makes High Above The Thundercloud a self-guiding, simplified approach to 
adding an Indian lore program at camp - or to supplementing your current 
program with new activities. 

Camp Tawingo Publications, 165 p.. 1985. 


4 







*Legacy to A Camper $9.95 

Jocelyn Palm (M — $7.95) 

This book includes a variety of program ideas for Special Days, Evening 
Program, Indian Council Ring, Quiet Times, Campfires and Thanks. More 
than the history of Mary S. Edgar and Glen Bernard Camp, Legacy to a 
Camper includes selections of Mary S. Edgar’s poetry and prose which will 
be useful for all Camps, Guides and Youth Groups. 

Canadian Camping Association, 133 p., 1982. 


LEGACY 


TO A CAMPER 



Tips and Tricks in Outdoor Education $14.80 

Malcolm D. Swan (M — $12.35) 

Compiled from ideas, notes, mimeographed materials, lesson plans, and 
guides by members of the Dept, of Outdoor Education at Northern Illinois 
University’s Lorado Taft Field Campus, this resource is a most valuable aid 
to every outdoor education program. 

Interstate Printers and Publishers, 184 p.. 1978. 

Woodsmoke and Campfire $2.40 

Ernest E Schmidt (M — $2.00) 

A definitive description of campfires: kinds, the site, laying the fire, types of 
fires, program and presentation. An excellent resource for campfire 
programming. 

American Camping Association. 1980. 


*More Campfire Programs with Jack Pearse $7.00 

Jack Pearse , Jane McCutcheon & John Jorgenson 

The 8th book from Camp Tawingo Publications which continues the 
tradition of creative campfire material. There are five fun-filled campfire 
programs - complete with opening, singsong, games & relays, stunt, skill, 
story and closing. An additional section offers fuel for even more campfires 
that you may use for your camp. A veritable storehouse of reiidy-to-use, 
fantastic material for summer camps. 

Camp Tawingo Publications, 202 p., 1984. 



HEALTH SERVICES 


Raindrops Keep Falling on My Tent $5.75 

Joy MacKay (M — $4.80) 

A revision of an old favourite, this rainy day book is packed with hundreds of 
great ideas of what to do in camp when it pours. Workable and interesting 
program possibilities which come from Joy MacKay s experience as a camp 
director, camp consultant, and college professor. Suggestions include rainy 
day programming for individuals, cabin groups, and all-camp activities. Rain 
can be beautiful, even at camp with Joy KacKay’s suggestions and your own 
ingenuity. 

American Camping Association. 20 p., 1981. 

Spotlight on Drama $2.85 

Barbara Winslow (M — $2.40) 

A revised and updated version of the earlier Spotlight. The book includes a 
complete description of the elements of a camp drama program: why, the 
principles for success, the administration of a program, sources for drama 
counsellors, suggestions for facilities and equipment, and budget and costs. 
A section on camper development growing out of participation in such a 
program, and an updated bibliography. Delightfully and interestingly 
written. 

American Camping Association, 22 p., 1979. 

Stories for the Campfire $12.40 

Bob Hanson and Bill Roemmich , Editors (M — $10.35) 

A collection of memorable stories gathered from all over the country to be 
told around the campfire. The stories are divided into six types: adventure, 
humorous, ghost, Indian, stories with a moral, and stories from other lands. 
Originally collected and published by the California Camping and Education 
Foundation. 

American Camping Association. 56 p.. 1983. 


Accident Report Form 

American Camping Association 


$0.30 

(M $0.25) 


Camp Health Cards/Forms $0.30 each 

(M $0.25) 

Health Exam. Card (Boy’s) 

Health Exam. Card (Girl’s) 

Health Exam. Form (General) 

Health Record Card 
Health Record Form 

American Camping Association 


(The) Camp Health Manual $24.70 

David Goldring (M — $20.60) 

A completely updated version of The Camp Physician s Manual published in 
1967. The author is currently on the faculty of the School of Medicine at 
Washington University and has spent a number of years as a camp 
physician. The chapters of the new book include: camp standards; infirmary 
organization and administration; infirmary supplies; common medical and 
surgical problems; psychiatric disorders, ear. nose, throat, and chest 
problems; skin problems; allergic disorders; eye injuries and infections; 
bites by snakes, animals, and spiders; and the role of the camp health 
supervisor in emergencies. The most comprehensive manual ever written 
for the use of health supervisors of day and resident camps. 

American Camping Association, 1984. 


Camp Staff Application Form $0.30 

(M $0.25) 

The above camp forms were produced by the American Camping 
Association and are not to be reproduced by any other agency. 


5 








■ Guide to Camp Nursing (Revised) $6.60 

Margaret £ Auld and Graceann Ehlke (M — $5.50) 

The knowledge and technical skills in camp nursing are taken from the 
experience of the authors as nurses in ACA Accredited Camps and is based 
on research data from a number of western camps. The book provides a 
practical supplement to AC As Standards With Interpretations in the area of 
health. Originally published in 1974 and revised in 1978, the Guide has again 
been revised in a 1985 edition. In cooperation with the American Academy 
of Pediatrics and the American Medical Association, the material has been 
updated to current practice, with extensive revisions in the Minimum 
Standing Orders and the first aid material. 

American Camping Association, 44 p., 1985. 


Health Record Log $6.60 

(M $5.50) 

This new publication provides a bound (stitched rather than stapled) log 
book with numbered pages (8 1 / 4 x 11), each page with space for 25 entries 
and a total of 42 empty pages. 

American Camping Association, 42 p., 1978. 


Nurse & the Health Program at Camp $7.50 

Mary /. Casey 

The revised edition of the first CCA publication to deal extensively with 
camp health services. A special section for counsellors gives suggestions 
about keeping campers healthy and safe; there is also an added chapter on 
how to deal with camper health and safety on an out*of*camp trip. The 
author has been associated with the field of organized camping as 
counsellor, camp director, and nurse. 

Camp Tawingo Publications. 101 p., 1983. 




i\ 


THE NURSE 
AND THE 
HEALTH 
PROGRAM 
AT CAMP 



HOW TO SERIES 

4 or 6 page monographs 


• “Composting for Pleasure and Profit” 

Sam Hambly, CCA/ACC, 4 p., 1981. 

$0.75 

• “Fun and Fitness at Camp” 

Marjorie Booth , CCAACC, 6 p., 1982. 

$1.00 

• “How to Promote Your Camp” 

Derek Walsh. CCA/ACC. 4 p., 1981. 

$0.75 

• “Maximum Participation at the Waterfront 

Jocelyn Palm, CCA/ACC, 6 p., 1982. 

” $1.00 

• Organizing a Sailing Program” 

Catherine Thomas, CCA/ACC, 6 p., 1982. 

$1.00 

• “Winter Camping Skills” 

Mors Kochanski, CCA/ACC, 6 p., 1982. 

$1.00 

CCA/ACC Three Ring Binder 

$4.00 

Made especially to hold the above monographs, a 
plastic binder is available for $4.00. 

good quality, dark green 



Camp and the Child (M — $3.10) 

A series of articles celebrating the International Year of the Child have been 
combined into a single publication: The Child and Values, The Child and the 
Earth, The Child and Emotional Growth. The Child and Play, The Child as a 
Spiritual Being, and The Whole Child. The articles include the educative 
aspects of camp experiences, value education potential in a camp setting, 
the child’s relationship to the natural world, the importance of play activities 
in camp, spiritual aspects of camp life, and all-round growth and develop¬ 
ment. 

American Camping Association, 1979. 

Camp Counsellor and Program Specialist Training Series 

Edited by Dennis A. Vinton and Elizabeth M. Far/ey 

The camp counsellor and program specialist program has been written to 
provide basic skills, knowledge, and behaviours needed for working in a 
camp. Hie training program is oriented to field application and features 
individualization of learning experiences. Each of the modules contains a 
checklist of performance objectives, a pretest, learning activities, post-test, 
and answer sheets for the tests. The objectives, learning activities, and 
evaluation methods focus on the specific duties which the camp counsellor 
or program specialist does on the job. Although the program can be used in 
a variety of ways - as a college course, institute, or workshop, or as 
pre-camp training - the emphasis is always on the practical application of 
learning in a camp setting. The booklets are bound, 8!/ 2 x 11. three-hole 
punched. 

Project Reach, 1979. 


• (An) Orientation to Camping and the Camp, 119 p. 

• Camp Health and Safety Practices, 87 p. 

Deals more heavily with the handicapped camper. 


$9.60 

(M $8.00) 

$7.50 

(M - $6.25) 


Camp Counsellors Handbook 

B. Blackstock & J. Latimer 


$11.95 

(M - $9.95) 

The second edition of a camping classic is now available. Camp counsellors 
and other childrens recreation leaders will benefit from the wisdom and 
experience included in this book. The authors cover the essential informa¬ 
tion for camp counsellors in seventeen chapters such as: Getting Ready, 
What Children Need, You as a Leader, Program Ideas (what to do when 
there’s “nothing to do”), Planning for Trips, and Finishing Off Well. Camp 
directors will find this a valuable resource for your camp staff. 

Methuen. 124 p., 1984. 


(A) Camp Director Trains His Own Staff 

Catherine T. Hammett 


$3.30 

(M - $2.75) 

Suggestions for pre-camp and in-camp training. Excellent and definitive 
information will be found most useful by camp directors. 

American Camping Association, 32 p. 

(The) Camp Secretary $3.25 

Gary Robb (M — $2.70) 

This publication includes information on camps and camps for the handi¬ 
capped and pertinent information for anyone employed as a camp 
secretary. It discusses the major responsibilities of the job: the qualifica¬ 
tions, the relationship of the secretary with other camp staff, and the specific 
duties with regard to bookkeeping, maintaining the file system, managing 
the office, handling mail, and maintaining office supplies. 

Project REACH, 37 p., 1979. 


6 








Camper Guidance - A Basic Handbook $3.30 

Dr. Joel W. Bloom ancl A. Coojier Ballentine (M — $2.75) 

A must for every counsellor in every camp. 

American Camping Association, 24 p., 1971. 

Camping for American Youth, A Declaration for Action $2.85 

Kenneth Webb. Ed. (M - $2.40) 

Prepared by AC A workshop. An interpretation of camping as it relates to 
present social trends and values and toward the fulfillment of the potential of 
the camper. 

American Camping Association, 26 p., 1962. 

Camping is Education $2.40 

(M - $2.00) 

An extensive revision of the once very popular u Place of the Organized 
Camp in the Field of Education .” A publication which should prove to be a 
classic of camping literature. 

American Camping Association, 24 p., 1960. 

*Counsellor-In-Training Instructor’s Manual $14.95 

Designed for use by the C.l.T. Director with special tips for presentation of 
each chapter and suggestions for exercise answers. Additional references 
for each chapter topic. Price includes Binder, Manual and Instructor Notes. 

Canadian Camping Association, 123 p.. 1983. 

*CounselIor-In-Training Manual 1 - 9 copies @ $9.95 

10 copies or more @ $8.00 

This workbook is designed for individual use by the C.I.T.’s. Also in a 
looseleaf format. Camp information can be easily added. 

Camp History & Philosophy; Camp Facilities, Policies and Procedures; 
The Role of the C.I.T.; Health and Safety at Camp; The World of the 
Camper; Communication; The Effective Teacher; Leadership; Program 
Organization; Public Relations; Evaluation; 

Canadian Camping Association, 91 p., 1983. 

(A) Guide to a C.l.T. Program $4.10 

(M - $3.45) 

ACA National Leadership Committee’s guide to a leader’s guide to the 
development and operation of a counsellor-in-training program in camp. 
This booklet contains suggested forms and program content. 

American Camping Association, 2nd edition, 32 p., 1974. 

Guide for Training Camp Staff $6.60 

Project STAFF (M - $5.50) 

A model of staff training designed for 16*21 year old youth from low-income 
settings, but may be adapted to any camp staff training. 

American Camping Association, 32 p., 1981. 

Informal Recreational Activities, A Leader’s Guide $12.00 

(M - $10.00) 

Dr. Phyllis Ford presents the basic principles of recreational leadership. The 
incorporation of theoretical principles with practical instruction makes the 
book a useful tool for a recreation leiider - beginning or experienced. 

American Camping Association, 119 p., 1977. 


Senior Adult Camping $8.70 

Constance H. Armstrong (M — $7.25) 

A new handbook providing guidance on philosophy, goals, administration, 
health and safety, emergency procedures, food management and other 
information on the growing activity of camping for older adults. The author 
is currently supervisor of recreation therapy at Harbor View Medical 
Center in Seattle and, through her experience, has provided a valuable 
collection of helps available to people in the fastest growing area of 
organized camping today. 

American Camping Association. 46 p., 1979. 



MISCELLANEOUS 


Bibliography of Research in Organized Camping, Environmental 
Education, Adventure Activities and Interpretive Services $23.95 

(M $19.95) 

Dr. Betty van der Smissen and .Judy Brookhiser have compiled and edited 
this comprehensive bibliography of research in the listed fields, plus articles 
from related periodicals in those subject areas. Indexed by subject and 
institution, this bibliography covers all research through 1980. 

American Camping Association, 300 p., 1981. 

*Blue Lake & Rocky Shore $10.75 

(M - $8.95) 

This new publication celebrates the 50th anniversary of the Ontario 
Camping Association and traces the long history of organized youth 
camping in the province. With delightful anecdotes, the editorial committee 
successfully describes the early years in OCA’s camps, the milestones in the 
development of a professional camping organization and the current 
situation. This book is a must for those who love life at camp and for 
historians who want to discover the past of your camping movement. 

Natural Heritage, 112 p., 1984. 

Camp Staff Position Introductory Folders $0.30 each 

(M - $0.25) 

Six pamphlets designed to provide prospective camp staff members about 
camp setting positions; 

“Introduction to career ladders and entry position in Summer Camp” 
“Camp Assistant Counsellor” 

“Camp Health Aid” 

“Camp Kitchen Aid” 

“Camp Maintenance Assistant" 

“Camp Office Assistant” 

American Camping Association. 1981. 


*Lead On ... Counsellor! $8.00 

Jack Pearse, John Jorgenson. Jane McCutcheon, Pat Pearse. 

A timely and effective book by four uniquely qualified camp staff providing 
excellent information for the camp counsellor or for those who train camp 
counsellors. A practical, delightfully written book filled with innovative ideas 
for camp leaders. 

Camp Tawingo Publication, 272 p., 1982. 


Careers in Camping $0.85 

(M - $0.70) 

A pamphlet suggesting job opportunities available in the growing field of 
camping and how to evaluate ones qualifications and interest in the 
profession. A well written, to-the*point publication which has value in 
counselling young men and women in careers. 

American Camping Association, revised 1979. 


7 






Fifty Years of Resident Outdoor Education $24.80 

William M. Hammerman, editor. (M — $20.70) 

Fifty years of innovative programming in resident outdoor education are 
traced, and the evolution from the early beginnings to the present time are 
explored. The authors of the separate monographs have been involved in 
the development of outdoor education through the operation of such 
programs themselves and through the teaching of other leaders. They 
analyse the impact that resident outdoor education has had on educational 
philosophy and practice and on the increasing problems of our threatened 
environment. 

American Camping Association, 129 p., 1980. 

Light from a Thousand Campfires $8.15 

Edited by Kenneth B. Webb (M — $6.80) 

A treasury of camping ideas, information and experience rooted in the 
camping movement - its purposes, problems and promise for the future. 
The book contains the distilled wisdom of over 83 respected authorities in 
the field of organized camping. 

American Camping Association, 384 p., 1960. 

■ Magic Ring $23.10 

H. Jean Breck, Editor (M — $19.25) 

This book is an anthology of well-remembered poems. Before Magic Ring 
was a book, it was a poetry game played by campers around summer 
campfires and along mountain trails in the northwest. This volume is the 
third edition of an anthology of well-remembered poems with a wide range 
of topics, styles and poets. Many are classic and familiar and those in “The 
Sandalwood Box” section are by young poets who were encouraged to 
write their own poems through the Ring. 

American Camping Association, 182 p., 1985. 

Tajar Tales $3.30 

Jane Shaw Ward (M — $2.75) 

Illustrated by Herman Lui Drucklieb. A fascinating story for younger 
children and amusing for all. Originally published by the YWCA and 
reprinted by ACA for camping people who love tall stories. 

American Camping Association, 36 p., revised 1967. 

Thirty Indian Legends of Canada $8.35 

(M - $6.95) 

Margaret Bemister first drew this collection together from original sources 
over 60 years ago and it is now back in print in a reset and handsomely, 
illustrated edition. This is a moving introduction to the heritage of Canada s 
native peoples, Ojibway and Iroquois, Cree and Okanagan showing their 
sense of identity with the land and its natural wonders. 

Douglas & McIntyre, 151 p., 1973. 


Vehicle Log $9.00 

(M - $7.55) 

A bound (stitched rather than stapled) log book with numbered pages, 8 1 x 
5 1 ; > inches, with lined entry space for keeping a record of all maintenance on 
each individual camp vehicle. This record can fulfill the requirement of ACA 
Standard B-60. 

American Camping Association, 1984. 


*Winds from the Wilderness $10.80 

Carolyn Birmingham, editor. (M — $9.00) 

This collection of favourite quotes by well-known authors is suitable for 
quiet times at camp or on the trail. Topics such as Leadership, Wilderness, 
Mountains, Adventure, Self-Discovery, Play, Friendship, Dignity, Solitude, 
Happiness and many more are included in this illustrated anthology. 

Canadian Outward Bound Wilderness School, 111 p., 1982. 


MUSIC 

nms 


*Come On ... Let’s Sing! $5.40 

(M - $4.50) 

The very popular book of songs is produced by the Camping Association of 
Nova Scotia. This collection of favourite camp songs is one of our best 
sellers! Words for over 600 songs are included. 

Camping Association of Nova Scotia, 185 p., 1982. 

(A) Counsellor’s Guide to Camp Singing $4.95 

Jane Tobitt (M — $4.15) 

The counsellor will be able to use this book to enhance his/her own musical 
knowledge and make the music program broader in scope and more 
enjoyable for all. 

American Camping Association, 44 p.. 1971. 

Sing! $4.10 

(M $3.45) 

Edited by the ACA Publications Committee. This completely new edition 
replaces “Let's All Sing. There are fast songs, campfire songs, rounds and 
inspirational songs. 

World Around Songs. 95 p., revised 1978. 

x Sing One More Time With Jack Pearse $6.50 

Jack Pearse 

The second collection of songs by a master song leader. Fifty-three more 
songs (not contained in Sing With Jack Pearse) with both music and lyrics 
(hand printed) to add to your collection. Illustrated with Roly Raccoon. 
Space to record chords and variations. Add this one to your collection! 
Camp Tawingo Publications, 85 p., 1981. 

*Sing With Jack Pearse $6.50 

Jack Pearse 

An incomparable collection of songs gathered by a master song leader. 
Delightfully illustrated with Celia, the crow, each song is complete with 
words and music - and actions, where they apply. Each page of songs has 
space to record chords and variations as desired. Some old favourites and 
some new ones to spark your music program at camp ... or wherever 
groups sing together. Hand-printed lyrics and notes. 

Camp Tawingo Publications, 37 p., 1980. 

*Singing Fun and Games $10.00 

Jack Pearse. Jane McCutcheon, John Jorgenson.Tom Knowlton 

A delightful program resource book which combines the joy of singing, the 
fun and involvement of games and relays, and the creativity of skits and 
stories. More games fill its pages: active games and relays, specialty games 
(waterfront, nature, campcraft). and quiet games. Over 60 songs are 
featured, songs with choruses and verses that fit into every kind of setting. 
Chock full of variety from front to back. Singing Fun ... And Games 
continues the great Twaingo tradition of well written, enchantingly illus¬ 
trated program material from a camp setting. There is an index of games 
and song titles, and a list of songs by the first line - providing easy access to 
the material. Spiralbound. 

Camp Tawingo Publications, 189 p., 1983. 



8 






Tent and Trail Songs $3.70 

(M - $3.10) 

116 songs to supplement the ACA songbook Sing. The format is the same. 
World Around Songs, 80 p., 1966. 



Acclimatization: A Sensory and Conceptual Approach to 
Ecological Involvement $9.90 

Steve Van Matre (M — $8.25) 

First came identification, then collection, followed by experimentation, 
leading to exploration and observation. Acclimatization is sharing, sensing, 
awakening, understanding ... a beginning - not an end. 

American Camping Association. 138 p., 1972. 

Acclimatizing: A Personal and Reflective Approach to a 
Natural Relationship $11.55 

Steve Van Matre (M — $9.65) 

Following his popular book. Acclimatization, this well-known author has 
outlined a much larger program - special walks and talks, trips and trails, 
and a whole series of exercises designed to aid either the camper or a group 
in expanding their understanding of their own natural relationship and 
involvement with the world. 

American Camping Association, 225 p., 1974. 



(A) Book of Nature Activities $0.85 

John F. Gardner (M $0.70) 

This book has been prepared for the purpose of providing worthwhile 
experiences in the field of nature activities for boys and girls of elementary 
school age. They should be able to read it, with perhapsa little help, and do 
the activities that are suggested. 

Interstate Printers, 37 p., 1967. 


(The) Earth Speaks $16.40 

Steve Van Matre, Bill Weiler, Ed. (M — $13.70) 

A collection of poetry and prose dealing with the natural environment. The 
text is divided into three sections - Earth Magic; Earth Wisdom; and Earth 
Spirit. This illustrated journal of thoughts will be invaluable to leaders who 
are involved with the natural world - a powerful tribute to our home in 
space. 

Acclimatization Experiences Institute, 184 p., 1983. 


Eco-sketch: Ideas for Environmental Education $9.90 

Russel E. Bachert, Jr., Sandie L. Bateman, (M — $8.25) 

Joanne L. Harward, Heather J. Hastings 

The idea-filled pages of this book are directed to leaders working with young 
people and adults in the out-of-doors. Eco-Sketch is designed to jog your 
mind and in turn stimulate development of a dynamic and challenging 
outdoor program. A great reference for schools, camps, nature centres, 
churches, recreation departments, and environmental education centres. 

American Camping Association, 130 p., 1976. 


Humanizing Environmental Education (A Guide for Leading 
Nature and Human Nature Activities) $25.65 

Clifford E. Knapp and Joel Goodman (M $21.40) 

A unique book, blending and combining the elements of nature education 
and humanistic education. This concept has produced unparalleled re¬ 
sources for anyone who works with people in the outdoors. Hundreds of 
activities designed to give the participant learning experiences in specific- 
areas are contained in this book. All of the activities have been used 
successfully in a human relations adventure camp and can readily be 
adapted or adjusted to many types of programs and sites. 

American Camping Association, 252 p., 1981. 


Reading the Woods $14.30 

Vinson Brown (M — $11.95) 

Rain, snow, animal life, fire, time and man leave signs in wooded areas that 
tell a story to knowing eyes schooled in reading the woods. With the explicit 
directions found in this fascinating book, event he new “reader” can soon 
find and understand the clues left by nature and man. 

Collier MacMillan, 160 p., 1969. 


Adventures with a Hand Lens $7.80 

Richard Headstrom (M — $6.50) 

With an ordinary magnifying glass and this book as your guide, 50 
adventures in close observation await you. These entertaining nature 
studies take you on field trips in and around your home, calling attention to 
interesting features of dozens of familiar or overlooked plants, insects and 
other animals, and common materials. 

Dover Publications, Inc. 220 p., 1976. 


Sharing Nature with Children $11.50 

Joseph B. Cornell (M — $9.60) 

A nature awareness guidebook for educators, parents, or anyone working 
with children in the outdoors; included are suggestions on how to be a good 
nature guide and how to choose the right game for the time and place. The 
activities detailed in the book are wholesome, uncompetitive, imaginative 
games which help the child actually experience what it is like to be a part of 
the natural world. 

Ananda Publications, 142 p., 1979. 


9 







Sunship Earth $22.30 

Steve Van Matre (M — $18.60) 

The author’s third major work in the area of environmental education - his 
first book. Acclimatization, came in 1972 and the second, Acclimatizing, in 
1974. Sunship Earth unites the concepts of the first and the relationships 
experienced in the second into a special program to provide deep 
understanding of how all the passengers on Sunship Earth can live in 
harmony. It is a hard-hitting, carefully thought-out approach, one of the 
most comprehensive environmental education program ever developed. 
American Camping Association. 265 p., 1979. 

You and Conservation - A Checklist for Camp Counsellors $1.20 

(M $1.00) 

This pamphlet is intended to help the counsellor and his campers be aware 
of attitudes and simple practices which may add up to good camping and 
good conservation. It was developed by the American Camping Associa¬ 
tion s Conservation in Camping project and financed by Lilly Endowment. 

American Camping Association, 12 p., 1971. 



PHILOSOPHY 


Alternatives for Youth-at-Risk 

Kendall /. Lingle 


$ 1.60 

(M — $1.35) 


An occasional paper by the Fund for the Advancement of Camping. This 
paper provides a summation of the types of alternative programs currently 
in sponsorship and provides some comparisons and estimations of costs, 
success rates, and information on financing. 

FAC/ACA, 12 p., 1980. 

Camp Intergrouping - A Synthesis of Theory and Action $5.70 

Paul R. Gibson (M — $4.75) 

This unique book is written to help provide camp directors and other 
leaders with ideas for bringing together and working with diverse groups of 
children. Emphasis is given to the many aspects of the camp community 
which provide so well for the implementation of the principles of intergroup¬ 
ing. Camping Intergrouping suggests the components, steps and relevance 
of individual and group commitment to living together peacefully and 
productively in and beyond the camp setting. 

American Camping Association, 84 p., 1974. 


■ Camping Research, Mystique or Meaning? 

Karla A. Henderson and M. Deborah Bialeschki 


$1.60 

(M — $1.35) 

The authors present an overall view of current research in organized 
camping with examples of the types most used and their relevance to the 
camp director. 

Fund for Advancement of Camping, 8 p., 1983. 

■ Enriching the Camp Experience $1.60 

(M - $1.35) 

Five private camps tell their integration story and Russell Flogrefe draws on 
their experience to point out some guiding principles which may be useful. 

Fund for Advancement of Camping, 8 p., 1982. 

Group Experience: The Essence of Camping $1.60 

Robert and Mary Brower (M — $ 1.35) 

An occasional paper by the Fund for the Advancement of Camping. Written 
by the co-owners of a summer day camp, the paper details the place of the 
group experience in camping and its resulting influence on campers. 

FAC/ACA, 9 p., 1980. 


Interpreting Camp to Parents $1.60 

Moisy Shopper (M — $ 1.35) 

An occasional paper by the Fund for the Advancement of Camping. The 
author provides, from his own past experience with the camping movement, 
details of the learning experiences a child encounters at camp and its 
consequent impact in terms of situations. 

FAC/ACA, 8 p., 1980. 


Is Camp Administration a Profession? 

William B. Duncan 


$1.60 

(M — $1.35) 


An occasional paper by the Fund for the Advancement of Camping. The 
author is currently the director of George Williams College Camp (Wiscon¬ 
sin) and is one of the first to take the Model A Camp Director Institute. He 
continues to participate on the staff of 20 institutes. He is well qualified to 
discuss the professional implications of the camp administrator. 

FAC/ACA, 8 p., 1981. 


Kids in Trouble 

Campbell Loughmilla 


$7.45 

(M $6.20) 


Campbell Loughmiller is the father of therapeutic camping programs for his 
disturbed children, and the founder and director for more than twenty years 
of the Salesmanship Club Boys Camp near Dallas, Texas. He developed a 
program which has achieved an astounding eighty-five percent longterm 
success rate. His book details the program which he has developed: an 
overview of the process; education; groupwork processes; counsellor 
training; and guidelines for anyone starting a new camp to deal with 
disturbed children. 

Wildwood Press, 94 p., 1979. 


(A) Modern Camp for the New Generation 

Kenneth B. Webb 


$1.60 

(M $1.35) 


An occasional paper isued by the Fund for the Advancement of Camping. 
The author discusses camps in relation to: challenge, sense of ownership, 
new life-style, character and simplicity, spiritual yearning today, and camp’s 
greatest contribution. 

FAC/ACA, 4 p., 1979. 


■ Organized Camping and the Future Research on 
Major Trends 

Karla A. Henderson and M. Deborah Bialeschki 


$1.60 

(M — $1.35) 

An analysis of future trends in society which will affect the field of organized 
camping. 

Fund for Advancement of Camping, 8 p., 1984. 

Summer Camps - Security in the Midst of Change $3.00 

Kenneth B. Webb (M — $2.50) 

The author of Light from a Thousand Camp Fires and many other books 
and papers brings to leaders and parents alike the increasing relevancy of 
camping as an educational tool of great value to today’s urban and suburban 
oriented children. 

American Camping Association, 52 p., 1968. 


Uncertain Outposts 

James A. Mason 


$2.50 

(M — $2.10) 


An occasional paper issued by the Fund for the Advancement of Camping. 
The future of camping and the challenge of its past is discussed by a camp 
director of 25 years experience. 

FAC/ACA, 16 p., 1979. 


(The) Values of Camping 

Reynold E. Carlson 


$1.60 

(M — $1.35) 


A statement of the values of camping as related to camping goals, youth 
needs, current social forces, and learning potential. Designed for use with 
board and committee personnel, as well as parents, and general public. 

FAC/ACA, 8 p., 1975. 


10 






■ Whatever Happened to School Camping? $1.60 

George W. and Louis E. Donaldson (M — $1.35) 

A paper which shows the impact which camping has had on education in the 
past and a discussion showing that the characteristics of school camping 
are still a vital part of camp programs today. 

Fund for Advancement of Camping, 8 p., 1982. 

Year Round Camping Through Adventure Education 
Programs $1.60 

C. Woodson Baker 111 (M — $1.35) 

An occasional paper by the Fund for the Advancement of Camping. The 
author is the director of Camp Holiday Trails (Virginia) which serves 
children with chronic health problems. In the paper, he discusses adventure 
education in definition, outdoor adventure centres, and details developing a 
year-round program. 

FAC/ACA, 8 p., 1981. 

■ Youth Development through Outdoor Adventure 

Programs $1.60 

Alan N. Wright (M — $1.35) 

A study of the long and rich tradition of outdoor challenge and adventure 
within the organized camping movement, as well as the upsurge in recent 
years of this type of programming. Outdoor adventure programs are 
analyzed by their elements and their potential for use in any camp situation. 

Fund for Advancement of Camping, 8 p.. 1983. 



*(LA) SERIE 
COMMENT FAIRE 


Les monographies de 4 ou 6 pages 


• “Au camp: les plaisirs de la forme” 

Marjorie Booth, CCAACC, 6 p., 1982. 

• “Comment organiser un programme de voile” 

Catherine Thomas, CCAACC, 6 p., 1982. 

• “Comment promouvir votre camp vacances” 

Derek Walsh, CCA/ACC, 4 p., 1981. 

• “(Le) Compostage pour le plaisir et le gain” 

Sam Hambly, CCA/ACC, 4 p., 1981. 

• “Techniques de camping d’hiver” 

Mors Kochanski, CCA ACC, 6 p., 1982. 


• Vers 1’utilisation maximale du plan d’eau du camp par 
1’evaluation des installations et des activites” 

Jocelyn Palm, CCAACC, 6 p., 1982. 


$1.00 

$1.00 

$0.75 

$0.75 

$1.00 

$1.00 


Un classeur dACC 5 feuilles mobiles disponible pour $4.00. Indus: votre 
choix de 2 monographies gratuites. 



SPORTS AND GAMES 


■ *Co-operative Games for People Who Love to Play $11.95 

Alan R. Davies (M — $9.95) 

A useful resource book containing over 100 new and adapted popular 
games. It is subdivided into drama, low activity, active, and small group 
games, for which 90% of them do not require any equipment. 

Alan R. Davies, 75 p., 1985. 


(The) Cooperative Sports and Games Book $13.80 

Terry Orlick (M - $11.50) 

Players of every size, shape, age and ability will delight in this lively collection 
of over one hundred new games based on the idea of cooperation, not 
competition. Included as well are examples of cooperative games played 
round the world; games designed specifically for special education classes; 
and ideas for creating an endless variety of cooperative games on one’s own. 
Wonderfully versatile, these games can be played indoors or out, in 
classrooms, on playgrounds, in swimming pools or in gymnasiums. There 
are no complicated rules, no equipment more elaborate than a ball, mat or 
net. 

Random House of Canada Limited, 129 p., 1976. 

Creative Growth Games $13.10 

Eugene Raudsepp and George P Hough, Jr. (M $10.95) 

I he authors of this book offer a challenge to think in different ways by 
presenting seventy-five stimulating games designed to test and expand 
ones creative powers and problem solving abilities. These games - 
numerical, verbal and spatial - are designed to increase perception and 
imaginative potential. 

The Putnam Group, 195 p., 1977. 


Games for Grownups $11.40 

Marguerite Kohl and Frederica Young (M — $9.50) 

This collection of 162 games for adults and teenagers starts with a chart 
telling how many players and what equipment is needed; how long the game 
will take, and if it is an active or quiet game. 

Simon and Shuster, 175 p., 1951. 


(The) Handbook of Recreational Games $4.70 

Neva L. Boyd (M — $3.95) 

Eighteen categories of games - pursuit and escape, hopping and jumping, 
throwing and catching, bouncing ball, throwing at a mark, intellectual, etc. 
Rules for common and uncommon games that are played by children 
everywhere. 

Dover Publications, Inc., 128 p., 1973. 

■ Learning to Rock Climb $17.90 

Michael Loughman (M — $14.95) 

This book is an all-around introduction to rock-climbing technique, 
equipment, terminology, and ethics. It is the first climbing manual to instruct 
beginners from the modern standpoint of movement. Precise illustrations 
and black-and-white photographs complement this informative text. 

Sierra Club Books, 160 p., 1981. 


More Creative Growth Games $13.10 

Eugene Raudsepp (M — $10.95) 

Eugene Raudsepp in the sequel to Creative Growth Games combines 
provocative fun with daring instruction. This entire new set of 75 games and 
exercises help one discover his/her creative capacities and problem solving 
abilities. There are visual exercises to expand persistence, concentration 
and originality; fantasy games to free the images stifled in the unconscious 
and elaborate mind teasers to unleash new ways of thinking. 

Putnam Publishing Group, 201 p., 1980. 

More New Games and Playful Ideas from 

The New Games Foundation $12.65 

Edited by Andrew Fluegelman (M — $10.55) 

More New Games picks up where the best selling New Games left off, with 
rules for 60 new games, new approaches to participation and winning, 
essays on game creation and adaptation, a capsule version of New Games 
training and an expanded and updated resource guide to publications, 
organizations, and equipment. 

Doubleday, 190 p., 1981. 


11 








(The) New Games Book $13.50 

Andrew Fluegelman , Editor (M — $10.95) 

“Play hard, play fair, nobody hurt” is the motto of New Games. This is a 
collection of games old and new and borrowed from traditional favourites- 
with a new approach. Delightfully written and illustrated with charming 
pictures the games are explained in specific and easily followed instructions. 

Doubleday. 193 p., 1977. 

(The) Second Cooperative Sports and Games Book $15.50 

Terry Orlick (M — $12.95) 

The second volume of the Coojyerative Sports and Games Book is “twice as 
big and twice as much fun.” In it, Orlick introduces an entirely new round of 
over 200 active games for indoors and out, and for players of all ages, sizes 
and abilities. There are both original games and new ways to recycle such 
traditionally competitive sports as dodge ball or field hockey into fun-for-all 
challenges. There are: special pointers on teaching cooperative skills to 
teenagers and adults, a chapter on games to play with toddlers, ideas for 
making your own playground equipment. 

Random House of Canada, Limited, 267 p., 1982. 

■ Silver Bullets $24.70 

Karl Rohnke (M — $20.60) 

A Guide to Initiative Problems, Adventure Games, Stunts and Trust 
Activities. A fascinating collection of activities by the author of Cowstails 
and Cobras. Each activity is coded by symbols to indicate: an outside 
activity, an indoor activity, either indoor/outdoor, activity level high, activity 
level not so high, needs props, no props necessary. The activities have all 
been used effectively by a variety of teachers, counselors, therapists, camp 
directors and church leaders who have all wanted an effective, engaging 
way to bring people together to build trust. 

Project Adventure, 186 p., 1985. 



■ Basic River Canoeing (The New Edition) $9.80 

Robert E. McNair, Matty L. McNair, Paul A. Landry (M $8.20) 

Extensively revised by the original author. Bob McNair, with his daughter. 
Matty, and his son-in-law, Paul Landry, the new edition retains the genius 
and spirit of the original as a concise and explicit instruction tool for 
whitewater canoeing instructors and as a basic book for canoers without 
former training. The revision also continues with a wealth of illustrations 
demonstrating techniques, and it continues to be an expression of the joys 
of whitewater canoeing. Black and white illustrations demonstrate techni¬ 
ques throughout the text and depict various types of equipment. Basic River 
is a popular teaching book among canoe outfitters and liveries who teach 
beginning river skills and is widely used, as well, by canoe clubs and 
whitewater training schools. It also is in frequent use as text for college 
courses in river canoeing. 

American Camping Association. 81 p., 1985. 

Guide to Canoe Camping $8.15 

D. Bruce Johnstone (M — $6.80) 

From his long-time experience in camping in the canoe country of Minne¬ 
sota, Wisconsin and Canada, the author has provided a detailed handbook 
of information on canoe tripping. He includes information on planning, 
suggested trips, paddling and strokes, food and camping supplies, canoe 
travelling, portaging, and campsites and making camp. The final chapter 


contains valuable tips gleaned from his travels. An excellent manual for a 
leader planning a canoe trip or as a resource for a camp canoe tripping 
program. 

American Camping Association. 64 p., 1980. 



WOODSMANSHIP 
AND CAMPING 


(The) Campcraft Book $8.15 

Catherine T. Hammett (M — $6.80) 

A revised and updated version of the original Your Own Book of Campcraft 
first published in 1950. Prepared as a guide to teenage girls and boys for their 
first camping experience, the book has been widely used as a background 
book for ACAs Outdoor Living Skills course. A handy, authoritative source 
on campcraft skills, the book will be of practical value to anyone, young or 
old, who wants to go camping for the first time. 

American Camping Association, 160 p., 1980. 

Emergency/Survival Handbook $5.95 

Robert E. Brown (M — $4.95) 

A hip pocket size book of emergency procedures for anyone at home, 
office, camp, boat or bush. In addition to providing information, the orange 
cover can be used as a highly visible signalling device, it is also wax 
impregnated to serve as a fire starter; the mylar centrefold can q\sq be used 
for signalling or as a light intensifier or mirror. Comes in a waterproof 
pouch-pack. 

American Outdoor Safety League, 45 p., 1979. 

Outdoor Living Skills 

The Outdoor Living Skills Program is the American Camping Association s 
internationally known program for teaching successful outdoor living based 
upon the knowledge, skills and attitudes acquired only through actual 
experience in progressive stages. Integral parts of the program are the 
promotion of understanding and appreciation of the beauty of the natural 
world, the wise use of natural resources, the application of health and safety 
practices and a sense of achievement and fellowship. Since the entire OLS 
Course can only be taught by ACA certified OLS instructors, the useful¬ 
ness of the following two books can only be that of reference manuals. 

• OLS Instructor’s Manual $9.10 

(M - $7.60) 

An outline by which a certified instructor can teach the OLS program. The 
purposes and objectives of the program are covered along with teaching 
plans for the topics in the check list. 

American Camping Association. 81 p., 1979. 

• OLS Guide for the Director of Instructors $6.60 

(M - $5.50) 

Serves as a reference tool: what to do, when to do it. and is a stimulus in 
developing the content and methods to be used in an instructor workshop. 

American Camping Association, 12 p., 1980. 

Outdoor Safety & Survival $5.95 

B.C. Ministry of Lands, Parks & Housing (M — $4.95) 

This pocketbook is a wonderful resource for any outdoor enthusiast. The 
chapters give a thorough overview of basic information on a common sense 
approach to preparation for outdoor activity: Survival Psychology, Clothing 
& Equipment, Travel. Hypothermia, So You’re Lost. Building a Fire, 
Building a Shelter. Health and First Aid, to name a few. 

Douglas & McIntyre Ltd., 153 p„ 1984. 


12 







TITLE INDEX 





Non- 




Non- 

Page 


Member 

Member 



Member 

Member 

Title 

Price 

Price 

Page 

Title 

Price 

Price 


A 




C 



5 

Accident Report Form 

$ .25 

$ .30 

7 

Camping is Education 

2.00 

2.40 

9 

Acclimatization 

8.25 

9.90 

10 

Camping Research, Mystique 



9 

Acclimatizing 

9.65 

11.55 


or Meaning? 

1.35 

1.60 

9 

Adventures with a Hand Lens 

6.50 

7.80 

1 

Camping Strategies in the 80’s 

6.75 

8.10 

10 

Alternatives for Youth-at-Risk 

1.35 

1.60 

7 

Careers in Camping 

.70 

.85 

11 

Au camp: les plaisirs de la forme 

1.00 

1.00 

2 

Church Family Camps & Conf. 

3.55 

4.25 



4 

Clouds on the Clothesline 

8.25 

8.25 


B 



8 

Come On ... Let’s Sing 

4.50 

5.40 

1 

12 

Basic Camp Management 

Basic River Canoeing (The New Edition) 

12.40 

8.20 

14.85 

9.80 

11 

11 

Comment organiser prog, de voile 
Comment promouvir votre camp 

1.00 

.75 

11.95 

.75 

.75 

2.00 

1.00 

.75 

14.35 

.75 

.75 

2.40 

7 

7 

Bibliography of Research 

Blue Lake & Rocky Shore 

19.95 

8.95 

23.95 

10.75 

4 

VClLCll ILco 

Complete How-To Book of Indian 

Craft 

3 

9 

2 

Book of Arts and Crafts 

Book of Nature Activities 

Business & Finance Managerial 

6.95 

.70 

3.50 

8.30 

.85 

4.25 

11 

6 

1 

Compostage pour plaisir 

Composting for Pleasure 

Conservation of the Camp Site 
Cookery for Kids, Kamp n’ Kicks 


r 



3 

5.00 

5.95 


L 



3 

Cooking for Camp & Trail 

8.95 

10.70 

6 

Camp and the Child 

3.10 

3.70 

3 

Cookout Manual 

4.15 

4.95 

6 

Camp Counsellor’s Handbook 

9.95 

11.95 

11 

Co-operative Games for People 



1 

Camp Dir. Educ. Currie. Guide 

9.65 

11.55 


Who Love to Play 

9.95 

11.95 

2 

Camp Dir. s Guide on Integration 

2.90 

3.45 

11 

Cooperative Sports & Games 

11.50 

13.80 

6 

Camp Dir. Trains His Own Staff 

2.75 

3.30 

1 

Cost Study of Resident Camps 

20.70 

24.80 

6 

Camp Health and Safety Prac. 

6.25 

7.50 

7 

Counsellor In Training Inst. Manual 

14.95 

14.95 

5 

Camp Health Cards/Forms: 



7 

Counsellor In Training Manual 

9.95 

9.95 

5 

Health Exam. Card (Boy’s) 

.25 

.30 

8 

Counsellor s Guide to Camp Singing 

4.15 

4.95 

5 

Health Exam. Card (Girl’s) 

.25 

.30 

4 

Cow’s Tails and Cobras 

14.45 

17.30 

5 

Health Exam. Form (General) 

.25 

.30 

11 

Creative Growth Games 

10.95 

13.10 

5 

Health Record Card 

.25 

.30 





5 

Health Record Form 

.25 

.30 


D 



5 

10 

1 

Camp Health Manual 

Camp Intergrouping 

Camp Management Technical 

20.60 

4.75 

24.70 

5.70 

4 

1 

Day Camp Program Book 
Decentralized Camping 

19.45 

17.90 

23.30 

21.50 


Info. Papers: 




E 



1 

Tip No. 9 The Camp Staff Applicant 

.70 

.85 


Earth Speaks 

13.70 


1 

Tip No. 10 The Camp Director 

.70 

.85 

9 

16.40 

4 

Camp Program Ideas 

7.50 

9.00 

9 

Eco-sketch 

8.25 

9.90 

6 

Camp Secretary 

2.70 

3.25 

12 

Emergency/Survival Handbook 

4.95 

5.95 

5 

Camp Staff Application Form 

.25 

.30 

10 

Enriching the Camp Experience 

1.35 

1.60 

1 

Camp Staff Job Descriptions 

1.70 

2.00 





7 

Camp Staff Position Folders: 




F 



7 

Camp Assist. Counsellor 

.25 

.30 

8 

Fifty Years of Resident Outdoor Ed. 

20.70 

24.80 

7 

Camp Health Aid 

.25 

.30 

2 

Food Service Managerial 

3.50 

4.25 

7 

Camp Kitchen Aid 

.25 

.30 

6 

Fun and Fitness at Camp 

1.00 

1.00 

7 

Camp Maintenance Assistant 

.25 

.30 

1 

Fundamentals of Day Camping 

18.60 

22.30 

7 

Camp Office Assistant 

.25 

.30 




7 

Introduction to Career Ladders 

.25 

.30 


G 



1 

1 

12 

7 

4 

7 

Camp Standards with Interps. 

Camp Standards - Condensed 

14.50 

3.90 

17.40 

4.65 

11 

2 

Games for Grownups 

God/Man/Land: Progs, for Camps 

9.50 

7.00 

11.40 

8.40 

Cam pc raft Book 

Camper Guidance - Basic Handbk. 
Campfire Prog, with Jack Pearse 
Camping for American Youth 

6.80 

2.75 

7.00 

2.40 

8.15 

3.30 

7.00 

2.85 

4 

2 

10 

2 

Good Times Around the Campfire 
Guide de Camping pour Parents 

Group Exp: The Essence of Camping 
Guide d’integration pour 

2.40 

3.30 

1.35 

2.85 

3.95 

1.60 






Directeurs de Camps 

2.90 

3.45 





2 

Guide for Dir. of Specialized Camps 

3.30 

3.95 





7 

Guide for Training Camp Staff 

5.50 

6.60 





2 

Guide pour Directeurs de 








Camps Specialises 

3.30 

3.95 





7 

Guide to a CIT Program 

3.45 

4.10 





6 

Guide to Camp Nursing (Revised) 

5.50 

6.60 





12 

Guide to Canoe Camping 

6.80 

8.15 


13 






Non- Non- 




Member 

Member 



Member 

Member 

Page 

Title 

Price 

Price 

Page 

Title 

Price 

Price 


H 




R 



11 

Handbook of Recreational Games 

$ 3.95 

$ 4.70 

5 

Raindrops Keep Falling on My Tent 

$ 4.80 

$ 5.75 

4 

Handbook of Skits and Stunts 

13.75 

16.50 

9 

Reading the Woods 

11.95 

14.30 

2 

Health & Safety Managerial 

3.50 

4.25 





6 

Health Record Log 

5.50 

6.60 


S 



4 

High Above the Thundercloud 

10.50 

10.50 

12 

Second Co-op. Sports & Games 

12.95 

15.50 

6 

How to Promote Your Camp 

.75 

.75 

7 

Senior Adult Camping 

7.25 

8.70 

9 

Humanizing Environmental Education 

21.40 

25.65 

2 

Serving Campers with Special Needs 

7.60 

9.10 


I 



9 

Sharing Nature with Children 

9.60 

11.50 




12 

Silver Bullets 

20.60 

24.70 

4 

Indian blow Book 

7.75 

9.30 

3 

Simple Foods for the Pack 

9.95 

12.00 

7 

Informal Recreational Activities 

10.00 

12.00 

8 

Sing! 

3.45 

4.10 

10 

Interpreting Camp to Parents 

1.35 

1.60 

8 

Sing One More Time with Jack Pearse 

6.50 

6.50 

10 

Is Camp Administration a Profession? 

1.35 

1.60 

8 

Sing With Jack Pearse 

6.50 

6.50 




8 

Singing Fun & Games 

10.00 

10.00 


K 



2 

Site & Facilities Managerial 

3.50 

4.25 

10 

3 

Kids in Trouble 

Kinhaven Cookbook 

6.20 

10.00 

7.45 

12.00 

5 

5 

10 

Spotlight on Drama 

Stories for the Campfire 

Summer Camp, Security in the Midst 

2.40 

10.35 

2.50 

2.85 

12.40 

3.00 


L 



10 

Sunship Earth 

18.60 

22.30 

7 

Lead On ... Counsellor 

8.00 

8.00 


T 



11 

5 

3 

8 

Learning to Rock Climb 

Legacy To A Camper 

Let’s Teach Bible Games 

Light from 1000 Campfires 

14.95 

7.95 

4.20 

6.80 

17.90 

9.95 

5.00 

8.15 

8 

11 

9 

8 

Tajar Tales 

Techniques de camping d’hiver 

Tent and Trail Songs 

Thirty Indian Legends 

2.75 

1.00 

3.10 

6.95 

3.30 

1.00 

3.70 

8.35 


M 



5 

Tips and Tricks in Outdoor Ed. 

12.35 

14.80 

8 

Magic Ring 

19.25 

23.10 


U 



2 

6 

10 

Making Effective Workshops Happen 
Maximum Participation at Waterfront 
Modern Camp for a New Generation 

4.10 

1.00 

1.35 

4.90 

1.00 

1.60 

10 

2 

Uncertain Outposts 

Use of Res. Camp for School Progs. 

2.10 

2.10 

2.50 

2.50 

5 

More Campfire Programs 

7.00 

7.00 


V 



11 

More Creative Growth Games 

10.95 

13.10 


V 



11 

More New Games 

10.55 

12.65 

10 

Values of Camping 

1.35 

1.60 





8 

Vehicle Log 

7.55 

9.00 


N 



11 

Vers l’util. du plan d’eau ... 

1.00 

1.00 

12 

New Games Book 

10.95 

13.50 


W 



6 

Nurse & the Health Program at camp 

7.50 

7.50 







3 

Wanapitei Tripper’s Cookbook 

5.95 

7.15 


O 



11 

Whatever Happened to School 



3 

3 

Object Lessons for Children 

Object Lessons for Children’s Worship 

5.65 

5.65 

6.75 

6.75 

8 

Camping? 

Winds from the Wilderness 

1.35 

9.00 

1.60 

10.80 

10 

Organized Camping and the Future 
Research on Major Trends 

1.35 

1.60 

6 

5 

Winter Camping Skills 

Woodsmoke and Campfire 

1.00 

2.00 

1.00 

2.40 

6 

Organizing a Sailing Program 

1.00 

1.00 


v 



6 

Orientation To Camping & the Camp 

8.00 

9.60 


i 



2 

Outdoor Education Guidelines 

1.00 

1.20 

11 

Year-Round Camp thru Adven. Ed. 

1.35 

1.60 

12 

Outdoor Living Skills Guide for 



10 

You and Conservation 

1.00 

1.20 


the Dir. of Instructors 

5.50 

6.50 

2 

Your Camp and the Handicapped Child 

1 1.70 

2.00 

12 

Outdoor Living Skills Inst. Manual 

7.60 

9.10 

11 

Youth Development Through Outdoor 



12 

Outdoor Safety & Survival 

4.95 

5.95 


Adventure Programs 

1.35 

1.60 

2 

P 

Parents’ Guide to Camping 

3.30 

3.95 





2 

Perspectives on Camp Admin. 

17.25 

20.70 






Catalogue Revision: Nancy Barker 

Typesetting: Characters Typesetting 


14 







Canadian Camping Association 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
416-781-4717 

PLEASE PRINT 

Name:---Telephone: ( 

Address:___ 

City/Town:---Province: 

CCA MEMBER NUMBER:_ 


BOOKSTORE 
ORDER FORM 


> 


Date: 


Postal Code: 


QUANTITY 


TITLE 


PRICE TOTAL OFFICE USE 


SHIPPING RATES: 

$20.00 or less, order must be Prepaid with $2.00 included for 
shipping. 

$20.01 - $50.00, order may be billed. Shipping rate will be $3.00. 
More than $50.00 - shipping rate will be determined per order. 

TERMS: Payment due within 30 days of invoice date. Interest will be 
charged on overdue accounts. All prices are subject to change 
without notice. 

OFFICE: Date Received_Filled_ 


Sub-Total_ 

Shipping_ 

TOTAI_Prepaid_ 

Signature_ 

Please invoice_ 

Quote Purchase Order No._ 

by_Shipped_by 


Canadian Camping Association 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
416-781-4717 

PLEASE PRINT 

Name:_Telephone: ( 

Address:_ 

City/Town:_Province: 

CCA MEMBER NUMBER_ 


BOOKSTORE 
ORDER FORM 


) 


Date: 


Postal Code: 


QUANTITY 


TITLE 


PRICE TOTAL OFFICE USE 


SHIPPING RATES: 

$20.00 or less, order must be Prepaid with $2.00 included for 
shipping. 

$20.01 - $50.00, order may be billed. Shipping rate will be $3.00. 
More than $50.00 - shipping rate will be determined per order. 

TERMS: Payment due within 30 days of invoice date. Interest will be 
charged on overdue accounts. All prices are subject to change 
without notice. 


Sub-Total_ 

Shipping_ 

TOTAI_Prepaid 

Signature_ 

Please invoice_ 

Quote Purchase Order No._ 


OFFICE: Date Received_Filled_by_Shipped_by. 























































SERVICE DE LIBRAIRIE 
BON DE COMMANDE 


[-’Association des camps du Canada 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
416-7814717 

EN MAJUSCULES S.V.P. 

Norn:_Telephone: ( )- Date: 

Adresse:--- 

Ville:_Province:--Code postal: 

ACC MEMBRE NO___ 


NO. 


TITRE 


RESERVE 

PRIX TOTAL AU BUREAU 


FRAIS ^EXPEDITION: 

$20.00 ou moins doit etre payee en avant avec $2.00 inclus pour 
l’expedier. 

$20.01 ci $50.00 - les frais de $3.00 sont ajout^s h la facture. 

Plus de $50.00 - les frais sont calculus et ajout£s. 

CONDITIONS: Tous les dettes actives sont payable apr£s 30 
jours. Une surcharge par mois sera ajoutee aux comptes en 
souffrance. Tous les prix peuvent etre modifies sans preavis. 


Sous-total- 

Frais d expedition- 

TOTA1_Montant inclus 

Signature- 

SVP facturez a- 

Commande no.- 


A l’usage du bureau: Date Received 


Filled-by-Shipped 


by 


[-’Association des camps du Canada 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
416-781-4717 

EN MAJUSCULES S.V.P. 

Nom:_Telephone: ( 

Adresse:_ 

Ville:_Province:- 

ACC MEMBRE NO_ 


SERVICE DE LIBRAIRIE 
BON DE COMMANDE 


Date: 


Code postal: 


NO. 


TITRE 


RF^FRVF 

PRIX TOTAL AU BUREAU 


FRAIS D’EXPEDITION: 

$20.00 ou moins doit etre payee en avant avec $2.00 inclus pour 
lexp&dier. 

$20.01 & $50.00 - les frais de $3.00 sont ajout£s a la facture. 

Plus de $50.00 - les frais sont calcules et ajoutes. 

CONDITIONS: Tous les dettes actives sont payable apr£s 30 
jours. Une surcharge par mois sera ajoutee aux comptes en 
souffrance. Tous les prix peuvent etre modifies sans preavis. 


Sous-total_ 

Frais d expedition_ 

TOTAI_Montant inclus 

Signature_ 

SVP facturez a_ 

Commande no.- 


A l’usage du bureau: Date Received 


Filled_by-Shipped-by 


























































Canadian Camping Association 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
416-781-4717 

PLEASE PRINT 

Name:-Telephone: ( 

Address:_ 

City/Town:---Province: 

CCA MEMBER NUMBER:_ 


BOOKSTORE 
ORDER FORM 


) 


Date: 


Postal Code: 


QUANTITY 


TITLE 


PRICE TOTAL OFFICE USE 


SHIPPING RATES: 

$20.00 or less, order must be Prepaid with $2.00 included for 
shipping. 

$20.01 - $50.00, order may be billed. Shipping rate will be $3.00. 
More than $50.00 - shipping rate will be determined per order. 

TERMS: Payment due within 30 days of invoice date. Interest will be 
charged on overdue accounts. All prices are subject to change 
without notice. 


Sub-Total_ 

Shipping_ 

TOTAI_Prepaid 

Signature_ 

Please invoice_ 

Quote Purchase Order No._ 


OFFICE: Date Received_Filled_by_Shipped_by 


Canadian Camping Association 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
416-781-4717 

PLEASE PRINT 

Name:-Telephone: ( )_ Date: 

Address:____ 

City/Town: --Province:_ Postal Code: 

CCA MEMBER NUMBER_ 


BOOKSTORE 
ORDER FORM 


QUANTITY 


TITLE 


PRICE TOTAL OFFICE USE 


SHIPPING RATES: 

$20.00 or less, order must be Prepaid with $2.00 included for 
shipping. 

$20.01 - $50.00, order may be billed. Shipping rate will be $3.00. 
More than $50.00 - shipping rate will be determined per order. 

TERMS: Payment due within 30 days of invoice date. Interest will be 
charged on overdue accounts. All prices are subject to change 
without notice. 


Sub-Total_ 

Shipping_ 

TOTAI_Prepaid 

Signature_ 

Please invoice_ 

Quote Purchase Order No._ 


OFFICE: Date Received_Filled_by_Shipped_by. 























































^Association des camps du Canada 

1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 

Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 

416-781-4717 

EN MAJUSCULES S.V.P. 

Tpl<Snhnnp' l ) 

SERVICE DE LIBRAIRIE 
BON DE COMMANDE 

Date: 


\ 1\ Hr.* Prnuinre* 

Code postal: 

ACC MFMRRP NO _ 

l v ld v lL>r\L MW---—-—- 


RESERVE 

NO. TITRE 

PRIX TOTAL AU BUREAU 


FRAIS D’EXPEDITION: 

$20.00 ou moins doit etre payee en avant avec $2.00 inclus pour 
l’exp£dier. 

$20.01 h $50.00 - les frais de $3.00 sont ajout£s h la facture. 

Plus de $50.00 - les frais sont calcules et ajout£s. 

CONDITIONS: Tous les dettes actives sont payable apr£s 30 
jours. Une surcharge par mois sera ajout£e aux comptes en 
souffrance. Tous les prix peuvent etre modifies sans pr£avis. 


Sous-total--- 

Frais d expedition- 

TOTAI_Montant inclus 

Signature--- 

SVP facturez h - 

Commande no.- 


A I’usage du bureau: Date Received 


Filled 


by_Shipped 


by 


L’Association des camps du Canada 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
416-781-4717 

EN MAJUSCULES S.V.P. 

Nom:_-_T4l6phone: ( )-Date: 

Adresse:-—- 

Vide:___Province:-Code postal: 

ACC MEMBRE NO_____ 


SERVICE DE LIBRAIRIE 
BON DE COMMANDE 


NO. 


TITRE 


RESERVE 

PRIX TOTAL AU BUREAU 


FRAIS D’EXPEDITION: 

$20.00 ou moins doit etre payee en avant avec $2.00 inclus pour 
lexpedier. 

$20.01 ci $50.00 - les frais de $3.00 sont ajout£s & la facture. 

Plus de $50.00 - les frais sont calcules et ajoutes. 

CONDITIONS: Tous les dettes actives sont payable apres 30 
jours. Une surcharge par mois sera ajoutee aux comptes en 
souffrance. Tous les prix peuvent etre modifies sans pr£avis. 


Sous-total- 

Frais d expedition-- 

TOTAI_Montant inclus 

Signature- 

SVP facturez a- 

Commande no. -- 


A I’usage du bureau: Date Received 


Filled_by-Shipped-by 






































































3. Such understanding of the important contri¬ 
bution camping has to make that we are 
heartily in accord with its philosophies, aims, 
objectives, and ideals. 

4. Awareness of what we as a group are accom¬ 
plishing and how we are accomplishing it. 

5. A whole-hearted desire to put self aside and 
work toward a worthwhile goal regardless of 
minor distractions or possible conflicting 
personalities.” 

In other words these individuals must be 
made aware of the fact that they are members of 
a group - that there is power in a genuine group 
spirit; that in working together toward a common 
goal there are strength and influence which far 
outweigh that of any individual. 

How can this be brought into being? 

First. By gathering together as a total staff 
group with regularity, free from distractions for 
the time being, and in a suitable environment. 
Size of space, comfort, light, etc. all enter into 
this. 

Secondly. By thinking together on such broad 
subjects as - why are we here at this camp? 
What do we hope to achieve for every child? 
What experiences do we hope every child will 
have at camp? What can we do about juvenile 
delinquency? 

Third.By problem-solving as a group in the 
area of small, specific problems. First - what 
problems do we have in camp? How can we see 
that everyone is quiet after taps? How can we 
keep the camp tidy? How shall we get the trunks 
packed and luggage organized for shipment 
home? What can we do about the weather? 
Some of these things may seem a waste of time; 
any experienced camp director or programme 
organizer could outline it more efficiently in half 
the time and tell everyone else how to get it 
done. But the value lies in the experience we 
are having as a group. We as a group can solve 
our problems. We form the habit of thinking of 
ourselves as we. We carry out the decisions that 
we have made with an entirely different spirit 
from the way we carry out crisply given instruc¬ 
tions from a superior. Now I am not suggesting 
that every single item of the camp operation be a 
subject for debate. What I am suggesting is that 
enough of this group thinking be done that the 
group forms the habit of making and abiding by 
group decisions. May I also hasten to state that I 
am not suggesting that the counsellor group be 
involved in formulation or change of fundamen¬ 
tal camp policies unless the director wishes this. 

Most groups are not ready for big things first - 
they should then start with little problems and 
work up to the larger and more profound ones. 
Earlier you may have noticed that the total staff 
was involved in this group thinking. Senior staff 
members or counsellors of many years' expe¬ 
rience should not be excused on plea of more 
important duties or of having been through this 
many times before. Through contact with the 
maturer thinking the young person gains wis¬ 
dom and stature in thought, judgment and 
attitude. Senior staff must, like the director, 
appreciate their own role in this group-unifica¬ 
tion process. Never must one become intolerant 


of the ideas of the younger staff members. They 
have a right to a hearing. Very frequently, since 
they are closer to the campers in age and 
feeling, they have the solution to a problem right 
within their recent experience. Senior staff find 
here an opportunity to learn the temper of the 
group and realize the areas in which they can be 
of g reatest help. Whe n you o verhea r a cou n seI - 
lor saying “this is the way we are going to do it - 
we’ve talked it over and we have decided upon 
this plan”, then you know that here is a counsel¬ 
lor who is identifying himself with his group. 

Fourthly, let us consider working together, as 
a tool in this group-awareness business. It is 
wise to have, very early in the season, some 
project which the entire staff conceives, plans 
and executes - something completely apart 
from the regular everybody-in-his-job camp 
routine. This can be something as essential as 
developing a smooth flawless plan for meeting 
all the campers, seeing them through the un¬ 
packing, sight-seeing, letter-home, first meal, 
entertainment, and off-to-bed routines of the 
first day of camp. It can be a counsellors’ show 
for the entertainment of the campers, or a 
fabulous all-day enterprise for the first or second 
rainy day of the season. It should be a project in 
which everyone participates, and in which 
opportunity for solo star roles is practically non¬ 
existent. At the close of such a completed 
project each member of the staff, exhilarated 
with success, looks at all other staff members 
with new appreciation and one feels the glow of 
“Look what we did!” One can almost see the 
group swell in assurance as we take time to 
evaluate the completed event. 

Fifthly. Evaluation - not necessarily called by 
that formal term - is also a most valuable tool. 
How did we do as a group? In what area could 
we have done better? What were our best 
points? How should we do it next time? Enough 
of this should be done with any group to teach 
the procedures and help form the habit of 
unconscious self-evaluation. And part of this 
evaluation must always be discerning praise 
and appreciation for the success of the group’s 
effort. No director or supervisor should confine 
his words to the type of criticism which tears 
apart and does not build up. 

Sixthly. Another valuable tool in promoting 
this feeling of group strength is playing together. 
Of course you have provided a staff room, but do 
not overlook regular parties for the whole group, 
not too highly organized, a chance for conversa¬ 
tion and sitting around a fire and singing - and 
eating. Remember that your counsellors would 
like the opportunity to know you as a person as 
well as a camp director. It is not enough to keep 
open house in your cabin - be sure that every 
counsellor gets there. “All work and no play 
makes Jack a dull boy” is very true of counsel¬ 
lors. And when we live in a closed community 
we must be very sure that we see that play goes 
on. If someone says: “Some night we should 
have a cribbage tournament" - seize on it and 
say “Let’s - when shall we do it and how shall 
we organize it?” A happy group of counsellors 
in turn transmits happiness to the campers. 

We have pointed out the morale building 
effects of thinking, working and playing together. 


We cannot over-emphasize their importance. 
Now how shall we educate this group? Both 
camp directors and counsellors are busy peo¬ 
ple. We could easily spend eight full weeks in 
counsellor training sessions only - but all of us 
have other duties. How can we make the most of 
our time and of the counsellors’ time? 

Now let us proceed: We have a camp, a 
philosophy of camping and a number of children 
to look after. In order to decide what this group of 
counsellors needs to know we must first have 
clearly in mind what we expect our camp to 
accomplish for each child. We must have worked 
out for ourselves an administrative structure 
which will cover every phase of the camp’s 
operation. “A healthy happy outdoor experience" 
is a very pretty phrase. But a camp director 
should know about a hundred thousand sub¬ 
headings to list as the ingredients which make 
up a healthy happy outdoor experience. These 
ingredients are the things that our counsellors 
need to know: 

How to teach swimming, canoeing, sailing, 
handcrafts, firebuilding, cooking, square-danc¬ 
ing, etc. in such a way as to fulfill the fundamental 
philosophies of this camp. 

How to motivate, discipline, lead, understand, 
educate and protect campers. 

How to do all the above and fill out a mass of 
forms in twenty-four hours per day. 

And so on ad infinitum. This is again an area 
requiring much dedicated thought on the part of 
the Director. We must have a concept of every 
job in camp. A realistic understanding of just 
what we are asking and expecting these coun¬ 
sellors to do. We learn much right on the spot, 
but this is not enough. This is a very good way to 
employ ourselves during the winter months. 
This is the time for reading and research, for 
unhurried thought and contemplation. Having 
outlined carefully what we feel this staff needs to 
know, let us consider what tools we can employ 
to transmit this knowledge. 

1. Staff manual with all the routine procedures, 
rules, regulations, time tables. What do we do 
on laundry day? Suggestions for evening 
programmes - perhaps a list of games. 

2. Handbooks for specific areas of the camp. 

a. The section - different of course for each 
section. 

b. Each activity - including the Health Centre. 

c. Miscellaneous - how to run the camp 
banquet; how to handle the regatta; Publi¬ 
cations prepared by others - mimeo¬ 
graphed material; ACA and OCA publica¬ 
tions; A camp library with good reference 
books. 

3. A series of talks - inspirational if possible - 
and on a challenging intellectual level; spread 
out over the entire summer and delivered at 
the most opportune moment These should 
be so designed that they always convey the 
philosophy of the camp. 

4. Evaluation as mentioned before. How are we 
doing? Every group needs to know this. It 
needs praise as well as derogatory criticism. 
It needs an outside life such as that thrilling 
letter of gratitude and praise you received last 
week from a parent - read it to them, keeping 
it anonymous of course. 


Twist and shout. 
Move it all about. 
Fitness is in. 
Fatness is out. 


pamicipacTian 


W) 


Counselling - Continued 

5. And don't overlook the demonstrations and 
instructive talks planned for campers. It is 
possible to teach in one operation and at one 
time every soul in camp ho to do certain 
things - care for a paddle - watch a sailing 
race intelligently, identify a plant, etc. 

6. Remember to provide opportunities for learn¬ 
ing by use of bulletin boards - visual aids. 

7. Remember to use every technique you have 
ever learned for transmitting knowledge. See¬ 
ing, hearing, doing; the laws of cause and 
effect, of repetition, of spaced learning, the 
whole versus part learning. Change your 
style - use humour, solemnity, emotion, drama. 
Only please - never, never descend to sar¬ 
casm. 

8. Very frequently counsellors teach other coun¬ 
sellors, for example at a special session on 
how to cook around a campfire where those 
who are skilled can provide hints for those 
not so skilled. 

9. General Staff Meetings - which should be 
frequent, brief, businesslike and thoughtfully 
organized. One could write volumes on the 
subject, but briefly: 

a. Their content should be of importance to 
every person present - not devoted to 
solving the problems of one activity of one 
section of camp, nor to making up the daily 
programme. When the swimming staff has 
a problem which concerns every member 
of the counsellor staff (such as safety pro¬ 
cedures out on picnics, cookouts, etc.), 
then it should bring the final phases of that 
problem to a staff meeting. The Head of 
Programme should bring only unavoidable 
final details - never should the daily pro¬ 
gramme be planned en masse unless one 
is seeking suggestions for the planning of 
some unusual day - when the thermometer 
has suddenly risen from 48 degrees to 110 
degrees. 

b. This is the time for making known things 
such as: food for the special cookout will 
be ready at 4:30 p.m. It will be packed in 
cardboard boxes and will have the coun¬ 
sellor’s name on the box. Need for volun¬ 
teers to help with some special project. 
The new system for waste paper collection. 
The visitors who may be expected in camp 
today. 

c. Counsellor training - 5 minutes on any 
subject - or any phase of the camp opera¬ 
tion - by director or some qualified person. 

What is leadership. 

What to do about “mush mags” 
and comic books. 

Why we teach children to be 
courteous - or tidy, etc. 

Open your eyes to nature. 

Vandalism. 

Homosexuality. 

Discipline. 

Over the years one learns what subjects may 
arise - back to the notebook again. Outline 
these classical gems you produce and keep 
them to help you in future years. 

General staff meetings should also be flexible 


enough to allow greater time when a problem 
arises which is going to take thinking, discus¬ 
sion and decision; not time gained by lengthen¬ 
ing this meeting now in progress; time gained by 
telling the group to think this over and return 
tomorrow prepared for intelligent discussion. 
Then whittle down the agenda for the next day, 
whiz through the absolutely essential details 
and say “now for that problem”. Sometimes the 
problem is such that it seems best to appoint a 
committee of knowledgeable people to appear 
at the next staff meeting with the material for 
discussion outlined. Incidentally - a camp direc¬ 
tor can learn a great deal about current university 
thought on psychological and sociological and 
educational matters by asking staff members to 
“tell all of us what the Psychology Dept, at 
McGill teaches on this matter". 

General staff meetings can also be dedicated 
to various aspects of camp life, i.e. the counsel¬ 
lors of one particular section of camp may be 
given an opportunity to outline for the rest of us 
the ways in which we can help the campers of 
their section. 

In other words, ideally every staff member 
should come out of each meeting feeling that 
she has learned something, or has contributed 
to the general learning of the group. 

Smaller staff meetings 

Sections: With section head responsible for 
conveying information which pertains to that 
section. 

Discussing problems which arise within that 
section. 

Then the section head can winnow from this 
the problems which should go to the health 
dept., the director, the general staff, etc. 


Activities: Where there is a staff of more than 
two, it needs to sit down at least once a week 
and evaluate its progress to date, make future 
plans, and iron out current problems, (i.e. are we 
all teaching this stroke the same way and 
seeking the same standard of performance). 

The Camp Council, Executive body, etc. 
Composed of some such personnel as section 
heads, head of waterfront, head of programme, 
etc. and the Director. Here the Director can seek 
guidance as to what is needed, can learn coun¬ 
sellor and camper problems; here broad, general 
plans can be projected - but never carried out 
over the heads of those concerned. 

With the exception of this “Organization” it is 
my feeling that if ail the nagging little details are 
so cared for, we are left free to devote our 
energies to the larger areas of true accomplish¬ 
ment. 

We have talked of the education of our 
counsellor staff - naturally we wonder how to 
supervise it. Methods here are as widely varied 
as the educational backgrounds of directors 
and section heads. My suggestion would be to 
use the administrative structure of the camp 
itself. A section head can be held responsible 
for knowledge concerning every counsellor and 
every camper in that section. The head of swim¬ 
ming can be expected to assess the progress 
and success of every counsellor and camper 
under his guidance. These individuals in turn 
bring their findings to the administrative council 
for discussion and consideration by the director. 
A word of caution to the Director: only God 
Himself could have sufficient insight into human 
nature and character to fill out some of the 


8 


When it comes 
down to the choice, 
there’s really only 
one camp - 
customized business 
computer system. 


Only one company has a system designed solely for 
camps - so easy that it can be put to use immediately 
without courses, tapes, or complicated manuals. 

Only one company has hundreds of satisfied people 
using its computer system in camps throughout the 
country. 

Only one company has been around longer (and will 
be) than any other, for meeting camps’ business 
computing needs. 

Only one company provides reliable backup and 
support anywhere, anytime, all year - summer and 
winter. 

Only one company is the ACA-recognized supplier 
of computers for camp management. 


Which one? The #1 of course. 
EZ-Camp™ 

If you’re ready for a business computer system or you 
need easy-to-use camping software for your present 
computer, SofterWare, Inc. is the sensible route to go. 
Call us for more information. Or better yet: call any of 
our client camps and ask them about the only company 
with the only system designed expressly for camp 
administration. 

SofterWare, Inc. 

200 Office Center 
Ft. Washington, PA 19034 
(215) 628-0400 



Ch ristian Camping 
International 

UnMSWtibmwn 



evaluation forms that comes to one’s notice. It 
has been my experience as a director, that by 
informing these supervisors as to what material 
is useful and what is not can avoid setting up a 
system which invites the supervisor to hyper¬ 
critical observations, and delving into personali¬ 
ties almost to the extent of psychoanalysis. 
What we need to know really*is- is the job being 
done well? If not why not? What are the best 
areas of job performance? How can we help the 
staff? The Director must always bear in mind 
that these supervisors are human, there may be 
personality clashes which colour the true pic¬ 
ture; the director must observe for himself, must 
be quick to detect and iron out difficult areas. 
Always one must strive for detached and objec¬ 
tive observations. In any area of human relation¬ 
ships subjective discussion of personalities is a 
trouble breeder. And always, the follow-up work 
should be conscientiously and helpfully fulfilled 
if the unity of the staff is to be maintained. As I 
mentioned before, this Executive Council, with 
its position for wide-spread observation can 
keep the Director in touch with the feeling of the 
various camp areas. If a director is informed that 
there are heated arguments going on over such 
and such a topic, he does not need to be told all 
the little details, he can find out for himself. If he 
is told that in certain areas of camp no work is 
being accomplished he can go and observe this 
for himself. A camp director must be humble and 
receptive enough too to accept criticisms of his 
own actions and judgment. We too are human - 
we can be thoughtless and apparently unfeeling 
in our dealings with others. We should be thank¬ 
ful that we have staff members loyal and cour¬ 
ageous enough to tell us these things. This 
knowledge of trouble spots, together with what 
we have learned in other years will help us with 
the discipline of the counsellor group. 

Generally speaking, a well-knit group with 
high morale does most of its own disciplining 
through the simple expedient of group pressure. 
These things are done - these things are not 
done. By and large you could probably name 
right now the type of problems which will arise 
with next summer’s counsellor group. They may 
be such as: dissension, lack of cooperation, 
care of equipment, the mid-season slump; 
cliques, inequalities of labour, hours, privileges; 
the third successive day or rain; insufficient 
sleep and rest; use of time off; relationships with 
other groups outside the camp; the camp direc¬ 
tor himself; conflict with the kitchen staff; etc., 
etc. How shall we deal with these things? 

First of all, let the group know ahead of time 
that you know that many of these problems will 
in all probability arise. Perhaps before they even 
rear their ugly heads we can devise solutions. 
This is a good time to seek guidance from the 
group - when there is no real trouble. Its judg¬ 
ment is then objective, there is no personal 
involvement. At this time too the staff is very 
receptive to the thinking and solutions from 
other years. 

But unforeseen problems always arise. How 
do we cope with these? First of all we must 
acknowledge that a problem exists. We must not 
turn our backs and refuse to see it. Remember 

See Counselling - Page 10 


9 



CAMPING ADVISOR 


We had some excellent meals at camp this 
summer and several, prepared by our chef, 
were Chinese. What a welcome change! How¬ 
ever, we began discussing this fact vs. myth 
Item: does one’s appetite really return faster 
after a Chinese meal or is that a myth? 

J.S., Squamish, British Columbia 

It’s a fact! Your appetite will return faster after a 
Chinese meal . Here's the reason: fat is very 
necessary for human health, but as we all know, 
too much of it can kill you. The body needs fat 
and stores fat - it’s a tremendous source of 
energy, supplying more than double the amount 
of energy supplied by proteins and carbohy¬ 
drates. Body fat is important in that it provides a 
cushion of support for our vital organs and pro¬ 
tects them from injury. The bad news is that 
we’re terribly conditioned to fear an excess of 
body fat, feeling it is unsightly and unattractive. 
And most of us get too much fat in our diet 
anyway; while butter and margarine are obvious 
fat sources, less obvious is the fat we consume 
through milk, meat, junk food, pastries etc. As a 
matter of fat (sorry, fact) 42% of our daily caloric 
intake is comprised of fat. Our body doesn’t 
even need to ingest fat to get fat; we convert it 
naturally from proteins and carbohydrates, 
especially if you eat more calories than your 
body requires on a daily basis. 

Fat makes food smell good and taste good 
and it certainly improves its texture. To answer 
your question specifically, fat ingestion helps to 
satisfy our appetite and delay the return of those 
“hungerpangs”. Since Chinese food is extremely 
low in fat content, one feels hunger soon after 
such a meal. 

* * * 


You have addressed jogging versus running in 
the past. We are great believers of walking for 
health and fitness. Is walking not a healthy, 
viable alternative that anyone in the population 
at practically any age can enjoy? 

L.C., Belleville, Ontario 

Absolutely! Listen to this following documenta¬ 
tion from an insert in Fitness, Nutrition and 
Sports (1985): “Everyone’s rushing to get into 
better shape physically. So many people run 
there. But it’s smarter to walk. Because of the 
shape, structure, and flexibility of the human 
skeleton, walking is the human body’s most 
natural motion. Walking is aerobic, improves 
circulation, relieves stress, and reduces body 
fat. And while walking burns about the same 
number of calories as running, it’s injury-free. 
Running places 3Vzto4 times more pressure on 
the muscles, joints, and bones, so runners risk 
an injury rate between 60% and 75%.” Okay? 
Start walking! 

* * * 


An increasing number of staff members at our 
camp are bringing their ten-speed bikes up to 
camp for the summer. As well as being trans¬ 
portation in and out of town, a number of our 
staff ride for pleasure and/or fitness. I’ve just 
received two requests from parents of campers 
(14 and 15 years old) who are asking whether or 
not their sons can have an opportunity of bring¬ 
ing their ten-speeds to camp and riding them 
on a regular basis. I am worried about setting a 
precedent, not to mention the fear of accidents, 
the worries over liability, supervision etc. Any 
suggestions? 

P.S., Thornhill, Ontario 

I would tend to agree with you: say no! In the first 
place, you would be covered from a legal point 
of view on your liability insurance, provided of 
course, adequate supervision was maintained 
at all times. The greatest danger lies in the fact 
that anyone who bicycles in camping country 
almost necessarily must bicycle on a road 
meant for automobiles. It’s just not worth the 
risk! Added to that, there is an increasingly 
precarious situation evolving in our cities where 
bicyclists and motorists are waging an all-out 
war. Usually this war takes the form of words 
written in editorials by bicyclists who are anti- 
motorist or motorists who are peeved at bi¬ 
cyclists. Just read the daily editorial comments 
in newspapers in Toronto and Vancouver and 
you’ll see what kind of nasty sentiments are 
being expressed. Accidents are definitely on the 
increase but one could argue that more bikes 
than ever before are on the roads so it obviously 
makes sense. It makes sense to me that when¬ 
ever a bicycle and an automobile are on a 
collision course, the bicycle (and cyclist) will 
always get the worst of it. Until this country has 
adequate lanes for bicycling and motorists and 
cyclists have a mutual respect and understand¬ 
ing, you’ve got to have rocks in your head to hop 
on a bike - day or night - and challenge city 
traffic. The situation at camp may not be as bad 
right now, but a lot of motorists who drive on 
roads around our camps re city-dwellers who 
are visiting cottage country and a lot of them are 
unfriendly (attitudinally) toward cyclists. If it 
sounds like a lot of fuss over a small issue, 
contact your local police department nearest 
your summer camp and ask them about motor 
vehicle-bicycle accident ratios. Your mind will 
probably be made up for you. 




Counselling - Continued 

this staff is influencing the attitudes and judg¬ 
ment of the children under its care. This camp is 
dedicated to the welfare of children. It must not 
harm or neglectthem. Having acknowledged, 
we must explore this problem and seek for a 
solution. This exploratory discussion is best 
done by the senior group, the executive council. 
It can perhaps suggest several solutions. Then 
these findings should be taken to the larger 
group for consideration and decision. The group 
will realize where duty lies. Again we must use 
our judgment - is the problem one which 
deserves such solemn treatment? Or is it so 
fundamental that decision rests with the director 
alone? 

Finally, not only in the matter of discipline but 
in all our staff relations, we are expected to be 
fair, consistent sympathetic, understanding and 
democratic. These are the self-same qualities 
we recommend that the counsellors cultivate in 
their relations with the campers. We can strive 
for no higher goal that that we always treat our 
staff in the manner that we ourselves would 
wish to be treated if we were counsellors, and 
someone else were our director. 


10 





















CAMPING... A RETROSPECTIVE 

Canadian Camping Association Comes of Age 


By: Douglas G. McEwen 

Reprint of a feature article from Cana¬ 
dian Camping, Autumn 1967 in which 
the CCA President of that time shared 
his thoughts about the Association. 

I would like to discuss three major areas of 
concern which I feel face our Association at the 
present time and must be dealt with within the 
next two years. These are: 

1. Services the Association must provide. 

2. Internal organization of the Canadian Camp¬ 
ing Association. 

3. Relationships of the CCA with kindred organ¬ 
izations and government. 

Association Services 

With the adoption this year of a set of Desirable 
Practices, camps now have a guide from their 
camping association. This is just the first step. 
The following things are now required: 

1. Regular visitation of all camps through their 
Provincial Associations. 

2. A shift of emphasis to training of leadership to 
assist camps to make sure that the experience 
they provide is more than just a safe one. In 
co-operation with universities or alone the 
development of a certification system by CCA 
of camp directors should be begun immed¬ 
iately 

3. Aggressive representation by the camping 
association to seek government assistance 
in facilities, health and sanitation, and camper 
assistance. Further assistance must be 
sought to conduct study and research in 
camping as an important educational and 
recreational program. 

Generally, other areas also need develop¬ 
ment: 

1. The Canadian Camping Magazine - my own 
judgment is that this is an excellent magazine, 
at present, designed for popular readership 
of camping personnel. I would suggest that 
CCAalso needs to find a means of publishing 
regularly research being done by camping 
people or even find the means by which 
research can be stimulated, aided and results 
shared among Canadian camps. Further, 
there seems to be a feeling that a wider 
readership is possible for the Canadian 
Camping Magazine by encouraging indivi¬ 
dual subscriptions as well as the automatic 
distribution through membership. This is a 
responsibility already assigned to the CCA. 

2. Training programs - in addition to continuing 
training of leadership, as is the case with 
forthcoming regional training workshops 
sponsored by the CCA with assistance of the 
National Fitness and Amateur Sport Branch, 
there needs to be more specialized training to 
meet specific needs of day camp personnel, 
church camp groupings, and private camp 
operators. 


Internal Organization 

For the first 20 years of its life the Canadian 
Camping Association’s strength has lain in 
strong provincial associations. There are many 
advantages to this. I would hope that this will 
continue. There is, in addition, an increasing 
role for the Canadian Camping Association to 
form liaisons with other National bodies and 
with the Federal Government, and an increasing 
need is becoming evident for a national office to 
be developed. More and more the need for a 
full-time executive officer has become apparent 
during the past four years while the CCA exec¬ 
utive has been in the Western Provinces. Be¬ 
cause of the immense sacrifice of volunteer 
effort on the part of many people, much has 
been done. But much remains to be done. 

In order to extend its services, strengthen the 
internal organization and represent the Cana¬ 
dian Camping Association in broader relation¬ 
ships, I feel that a full-time Executive Secretary 
should be employed and supported by neces¬ 
sary stenographic assistance. 

Another internal problem of our Association is 
that at present the entire National Executive 
resides in Manitoba. This proximity of people 
ensures that a meeting can be called and run on 
short notice and at little or no expense. Informa¬ 
tion as to decisions about to be taken is shared 
with Provincial Associations but frequently no 
response from Provincial Associations is taken 
as assent and further many people are not con¬ 
sulted when such decisions are considered. 
Annually your Board of Directors meets and at 
that time the voice of each camp can be heard 
through the representatives of Provincial Camp¬ 
ing Associations. Despite disadvantages which 
are inevitable from the point of view of cost, I 
believe that the time is approaching when your 
Board must meet at least quarterly in addition to 
regular meetings of a National Executive which 
is located either in one province or spread geo¬ 
graphically across the country. Our history 
shows a very real sensitivity on the part of past 
National Executives to regional concerns but 
sensitivity is not enough for our Association to 
be effective. Representation of your concerns 
and communication between members and 
officers is necessary if the Association truly 
seeks to serve the needs of its members. 

Another concern is that there are still camps 
and groups of camps who have not sought 
membership in the National Association. No 
Association exists in Saskatchewan, some 
camps in the Maritimes are not members of the 
Association and the French section of the 
Quebec Camping Association are still not mem¬ 
bers of the Canadian Association. Constructive 
steps should be taken as soon as possible to 
give all camps in Canada the opportunity to 
participate in the affairs of our National Associa¬ 
tion which is increasingly speaking for all of 
Canadian camping. 


Relationships 

Camping is not a word that is clearly under¬ 
stood in the English language. The dictionary 
suggests that camping is “pitching tents and 
resting”. To a family travelling from Toronto to 
Vancouver camping is one thing, to an operator 
of a trailer park, camping means something 
else; to an agency providing an experience for 
children, camping is something else again. 
Because we are called the Canadian Camping 
Association many people view us in many 
different ways. Even at the Symposium of Rec¬ 
reation in Montreal among a group of 25 people 
concerned with the use of leisure, the major 
issues raised by Kirk Wipper were not discussed 
because of an involved discussion that devel¬ 
oped as to what was meant by the word, 
camping. The time has come for our Association 
to define itself to the public. Further, the question 
of relationship with groups doing "camping” 
must be studied and decided upon. 

Another form of relationship is growing. The 
relationship is one between federal government 
and your Association. The Centenary Journey 
project, now in its final stages, received a grant 
of $12,000.00 from the National Centennial Corn- 
mi ssi on. Travel grants for members of the Board 
of Directors to attend Annual Meetings have 
been received from the Fitness and Amateur 
Branch of the Department of National Health 
and Welfare and a sizeable grant has bfcen 
received for the conduct of five regional training 
events from the same source. The CCA has 
been invited to be a part of a technical sub¬ 
committee to the Advisory Council of Fitness 
and Amateur Sport and as such to submit plans 
for long range development to which the Federal 
Government might consider making grants. We 
are an organization worthy of support, funds are 
available, and it is now time for us to state clearly 
where we are going and what we are about. 

In Conclusion 

I am impressed that the Canadian Camping 
Association is a large organization representing 
a vital program for Canadians and I feel that we 
are confronted with great challenges which, 
when met, can mean improved standards of 
camping, bettertrained and qualified leadership 
in camps and a strong voice in councils planning 
to meet the needs of Canadians. 

I am impressed that the time has come for 
your National Executive to assume a role of 
creative initiative. Shortly, you will receive 
several papers outlining proposed action by the 
Canadian Camping Association. Your reaction 
to these papers is important and should be com¬ 
municated through your provincial association 
or directly to me as your President. 

Finally, your executive is impressed that the 
CCA is an association of members joined to¬ 
gether for common purposes and hence that all 
of us as members must be concerned with and 
have a voice in policy and program. I, for one, 
look forward to the Association. 


11 




Canadian camping association 
association dcs camps du Canada 

SUITE 2. 1806 AVENUE ROAD • TORONTO. ONTARIO M5M 3Z1 


VOL. 37 NO. 3 
AUTUMN 1985 



1915 

MISS JANE MCCUTCHEON 
C/0 CAMP TAWINGO 

HUNTSVILLE ON 
POA 1 K 0 


CAMPING... THE LAST WORD! 

in 

WHO IS THE CCA? 

;r, o ^ 

• ' 'M 
; — 



i/i 








ARE 


ijimi 


12 







