


































IN THIS ISSUE 


BEHIND THIS ISSUE 



DIRIGEANT 

CE NUMERO 

Staff 


Personnel 

Editor-in-Chief 

Jack Pearse 

Editeur en chef 

Senior Editors 

Jane McCutcheon 

John Jorgenson 


Regional Editors 

Brenda McFarlane—Eastern 

Liz Greenway — Central 

Dave Adair - Western 

Editeurs r6gionaux 

Office Staff 

Lisa Pearse 

Pat Delahey 

Personnel du bureau 

Translation 

Yvon Ethier 

Gerard Bachand 

Traduction 

Printers 

Cober Printing, Kitchener. Ont. 

Imprimeurs 

Board of Directors 


Conseil D’administration 

Executive Officers 


Les Officiers Executlf 

President 

Janet Adamson. Toronto. Ont. 

Pr6sidente 

Past President 

Jocelyn Palm, Toronto, Ont. 

Pr6sidente Sortant 

Secretary 

Patti Thom. Toronto. Ont. 

Secretaire 

Treasurer 

Skip Connett, Thornhill. Ont. 

Tr6sorier 

Vice-Pres. (Atlantic) 

Ian Fowler. Moncton. N.B. 

Vice-president 

Vice-Pres. (Pacific) 

Jan James. Ardrossan, Alta. 

Vice-presidente 

Vice-Pres. (Prairie) 

Jennifer Perron, Winnipeg. Man. 

Vice-pr6sidente 

Vice-Pres. (Quebec) 

Gerard Bachand, Rawdon, Que. 

Vice-president 

Vice-Pres. (Ontario) 

Sally Moore. Toronto. Ont. 

Vice-pr6sidente 

President Emeritus 

F.M. Van Wagner. Point Claire. 
Que. 

President 6merite 

Provincial Representatives 

Repr6sentants Provinclaux 

Newfoundland 

Judy May 

La Terre Neuve 

Nova Scotia 

Kelley Byrne 

La Nouvelle Ecosse 

New Brunswick 

Dan Soucy 

La Nouveau Brunswick 

Quebec 

Henri Chalifoux 

Le Quebec 

Ontario 

Jane McCutcheon 

L’Ontario 

Manitoba 

Calvin Desmarais 

Le Manitoba 

Saskatchewan 

Penny Wingert 

Le Saskatchewan 

Alberta 

Bob Sperling 

L'Alberta 

British Columbia 

Jean Bowering 

La Colombie Britannique 

CCA Committees 


Comit6s ACC 

Archives 


Les Archives 

Professional 


Le D6veloppement 

Development 

Dorothy Walter. Toronto, Ont. 

Professional 

National Conferences 


Les Ateliers et les 

and Workshops 

Glenn Barned, Victoria. BC/CB 

Conferences Nationales 

French Language 

Colette Pouliot-Marier, 

Quebec City, Quebec 

Le Franpais 

Fund Raising 

Jack Pearse. Waterloo. Ont. 

Accumulation des Fonds 

Environment 

Jean Funk. Sherwood Pk.. Alta. 

Le Milieu 

PARC Liaison 

Diane Blair. Toronto. Ont. 

Liaison PARC 

Publications 

Nancy Barker. Toronto. Ont. 

Publications 

Public Relations 

Alayne Scanlon. Toronto. Ont. 

Relations Publiques 

Magazine 

Camp Tawingo, Huntsville. Ont. 

Revue 

National Conference 

Fred Okada. Toronto. Ont. 

Congres/conf6rences 



nationales 

Seminar Task Force 

Dorothy Walter. Toronto. Ont. 

Strategique Mixte 

Immigration 

Barry Lowes. Toronto. Ont. 

L’immigration 

International Liaison 

Jack Pearse. Waterloo, Ont. 

Liaison Internationales 

National Office 

Bureau 

National 

Canadian Camping Association Association des Camps du Canada 

1806 Avenue Road. Ste. 2 1806 Avenue Road. Ste. 2 

Toronto. Ontario M5M3Z1 Toronto. Ontario M5M 3Z1 

(416) 781-4717 

(416) 781-4717 

Administrative 



Secretary 

Irene Knapp 

Secretaire Administrative 


Somewhere in the middle of winter the job of putting last 
summer to bed resolves itself into putting next summer into 
full gear. Some things are well underway but there is still lots 
of time to read, investigate and explore new ideas. This issue 
of CCM is just that kind of resource which you can enjoy. 

Our Coast to Coast feature has never been so full of news 
and information about training and fellowship oppor¬ 
tunities. Consider what’s going on in your province and in 
your neighbouring ones as well. Janet Adamson makes a sim¬ 
ple yet critical appeal on behalf of Canadian Camping. Her 
words must not fall on deaf ears. 

By way of finishing our series on some of the pioneers of 
camping in Canada, this issue's Personality Profile centres 
on the work of Lome Brown as recalled by his wife. May. 
Lome touched a great many of us with his love for the natural 
world, for camping and for children whether at home in 
Camp Deka or across the country in the CCA. Watch for the 
start of a different series of personalities in our next issue. 

All of our regular features are in place and you will find 
some program ideas, food service tips, and a number of pro¬ 
gram descriptions. Keep your cards, letters and pictures com¬ 
ing in and enjoy the gathering momentum to the summer 
of 1988. 


DANS CE NUMERO 


Comme il semble facile de mettre derriere soit les souvenirs de 
I’6t6 dernier surtout lorsque nous nous trouvons en plein coeur de 
I’hiver et que 6k'\k nous sommes en pleins prepartatifs pour la 
saison estivale qui s’annonce. 

C’est un temps icteal, pr6s d’un bon feu et avec un bon livre et le 
froid et la neige a I’exterieur, pour penser et r66valuer et pour for- 
muler de nouvelles d’idees. Ce numero de L’A.C.C. vous offre jus- 
tement ce plaisir. 

Notre rubrique d’un ocean k I’autre vous offre des nouvelles et 
de I’information consernant le perfectionnement et I’entrainement 
et les associations de camarades. 

Prennez aussi le temps de saisir toutes les chances qui s’of- 
frent k vous, k l’int£rieure de vos provinces respectives et meme 
dand votre region. 

Janet Adamson fait appel k tous. Son message est simple 
mais important. II ne faudrait surtout pas lui faire sourde oreille. 

Nous terminons notre s6rie Profile de personnalit§s avec May 
Brown, qui nous tracera un portrait de son mari, Lome 
Brown. 

Durant sa vie, Lome a touche bien de gens, par son amour de la 
nature, du plein air, du camping et des enfants soient les siens ou 
les nombreux jeunes campeurs qu’il a racontr6 et influence pen¬ 
dant son temps passe au camp Deka et partout k travers le circuit 
des camps de I’A.C.C. 

Dans notre prochain numero, nous introduirons une nouvelle 
s6rie sur des personnalit6s differentes. 

Toutes nos attractions principales sont en place. Vous 
trouverez aussi des suggestions de programme, des id6es au 
sujet du service de nourriture. ainsi que des descriptions de 
programmes. 

Continuez k nous faire parvenir vous cartes, vous lettres et vous 
photos et r^jouissez vous a I’avance de votre ktk de 1988. 


Association des Camps du Canada 



Canadian Camping Association 

National Office / Siege Sociale 

1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, 

Toronto, Ont. M5M 3Z1 
Phone: (416) 781-4717 


2 








PRESIDENT’S 

MESSAGE 


For those intimately involved with the Cana¬ 
dian Camping Association, 1988 is an historic 
year. It is this year that the Canadian Camping 
Association is no longer receiving funding for 
its operating expenses from the Federal 
Government through Fitness Canada. Will 
we survive? __ 

For many years the C.C.A received handsome funding for 
its general operation from the Federal Government. We had 
an executive director's salary, twice yearly board meetings to 
which all provincial presidents were flown at government 
expense, conferences funded by government, and Federal 
Government administrative money. This funding has been 
phased out over the past three years, and despite economies, 
budget cutting and fund raising we are now operating at a 
deficit each year. Will we survive? We will if we think we 
should. There are those who think C.C.A. is unnecessary, 
irrelevant and too expensive. To the last 1 would say that no 
national association could operate on a tighter budget than 
the C.C.A.; there are absolutely no frills. Is C.C.A. 
unnecessary? In as much as a national forum to share 
knowledge, expertise, contact with government, and support 
to nine provincial associations and six hundred camps and 
their directors has existed for fifty years, with a rich tradition 
and heritage, 1 think it would be a grave mistake to declare 
ourselves redundant. If you have been to a national con¬ 
ference, or went to Washington, or enjoy the magazine, or 
hire foreign counsellors, or have used the C.C.A. book 
catalogue then you recognize some of the benefits of C.C.A. 
Now we need you. Here is how you can help. 

1. Support your provincial president in his or her efforts 
to increase your provincial fee payment to C.C.A. 

.. . continued on next page 



UN MOT 
DE LA PRESIDENTE 


Pour ceux et celles qui sont 6troitement lies a 
I’A.C.C., I’annee 1988 sera une ann6e historique. 
Pour la premiere fois de son histoire, (’Association 
ne recevera plus d’octrois du gouvernement 
federal par I’intermediare de Participation Canada. 

0 Pourrons-nous survivre? 

Pendant plusieurs ann6es le bon fonctionne- 

- ment de I’ACC a §fe grace k de g6n6reux octrois 

de la part du gouvernement federal. Nous salaires 6taient ceux 
d’administrateurs. Deux fois fan, nous les administrateurs pro- 
vinciaux, nous nous reunions et voyagions (par avion) au frais du 
gouvernement federal. Meme les conferences 6taient subven- 
tionne6s par ce dernier et ses agences. hfelas, petit a petit depuis 
les trois dernieres ann6es, ces octrois ont ete couples un peu 
partout et meme avec les relevSs de fonds, nous oeuvrons cha- 
que ann6e avec un deficit budgetaire. Pourrons-nous survivre? 
Nous survivrons si nous le voulons vraiment. 

Certains croient que I’ACC n’est pas n6cessaire, qu’Elle est 
trop couteuse. Pour ce qui est du cout d’operation laissez-moi 
vous dire, qu’aucune association ou organisme national ne 
pourrait op6rer aussi 6fficacement avec un budget aussi limite 
comme I’a fait I’ACC. L’ACC est-elle necessaire? Pour fepondre a 
cette question, il suffit de se demander ceci. Depuis cinquante 
ans, I’ACC a agit en tant que forum national, ou on 6changeait de 
I’information, ou on partageait des connaissances, ou on 6tait en 
contact avec les agences du gouvernement. Pendant cinquante 
ans, nous avons appuy§ neuf associations provinciales et six 
cent camps et des directeurs. Cinquante ans de traditions, de 
partage de savoir. II serait vraiment triste de penser, ou bien, de 
nous avouer inutile. 

Si par bonheur, vous avec eu I’occasion d’assister k une con¬ 
ference, ou que vous etes alfes k Washington, ou que vous avez 
eu plaisir k lire la revue, ou que vous avez eu k embaucher un 
moniteur stranger, ou que vous avez eu recourt k notre catalogue, 
alors vous pouvez fealiser I’importance et I’utilife de I’A.C.C. 

Maintenant, nous avons besoin de vous. Voici comment vous 
pouvez nous aider. .. .continuer 


CONTENTS 


PRESIDENTS MESSAGE 

— Janet Adamson 

CAMPING FROM COAST TO COAST 

GOT A MINUTE? 

COMMITTEE NOTES 

PROGRAMMING EN ROUTE 

CONFERENCE TENDER 

PERSONALITY PROFILE — LORNE BROWN 
— May Brown 

L'ETRANGER / THE STRANGER 
— Jay Netherwood 

CAMP MASSAD 


— Stuart Slayer 


MOUNT PLEASANT 
NEIGHBOURHOOD HOUSE 

— Antonia Beck 

A. ROSS SEAMAN 

P.A.R.C. NOTEBOOK 

— Aniko Varpolatai 

LE CARNET DE P.A.R.C. 

BETWEEN THE COVERS 

BUBBY NASH AWARD 

UNDER OPEN SKIES 

WHATS IN A NAME? 

WHATS "IN" OUTDOORS 


3 





2. Send an individual contribution to the C.C A Pat¬ 
rons’ Fund. There is information on this in this issue. Many 
people have given more than generously for the past two 
years, but we need a broader base of support, however small 
your contribution. 

3. Buy subscriptions to the magazine for your key staff, 
your board members, former staff. If we can increase our 
magazine circulation we can attract more advertisers. 

4. Make a special gesture as CampTawingo has. Because 
we are facing a deficit in this year. Camp Tawingo is under¬ 
writing the complete cost of production of this winter issue of 
the magazine. 

5. Another director who quietly supports C.C A is Barry 
Lowes of Camp Timberlane. Each year Barry, at his own 
expense, flies to Ottawa and negotiates the foreign camp 
counsellor agreement for C.C.A. He donates his time, the 
office work involved and the airfare, quietly, generously 
and effectively. 

6. If you are unable to help with monetary support, lend 
your moral support. In all areas of Canada there are C.C .A. 
committees that could use your help. If you contact the 
national office we will steer you in the right direction. 

7. All of your support is appreciated and tax deductible, 
too. Please give generously. 

Will C.C.A. survive? Say yes, and do your part to keep this 
national association a meaningful, useful, relevant con¬ 
tributor to camping in Canada. 

by JANET ADAMSON 
President, C.C.A. /A.C.C. 


1. Appuyervotre pr4sident(e) dans ses efforts d’augmenter la 
cotisation de I’ACC. 

2. Faites parvenir un don personnel & PAssociation pour son 
Fond de Clientele (Patron Fund). Nous remercions ceux et celles 
qui nous ont si g4n4reusement appuy4 dans le pass4. Nous 
souhaitons que continue cette g4n4rosit6 et que surtout qu’elle 
s*4tende 4 tous. Votre contribution aussi minime qu’elie soit 
sera appr4ci4e. 

3. Abonnez-vous 4 notre revue. Plus le tirage est grand, 
meilleures sont nos chances de rejoindre plus de personnes. 

4. Faites un effort special, tout comme Pa fait le camp 
Tawingo. Parce que nous pr4voyons un deficit budgetaire le 
camp Tawingo s’occupe de toutes les ddpenses encourues par 
cette publication de la revue. 

5. Tout comme Barry Lowes du camp Timberlane qui 4 
chaque ann4e, se rend 4 ses frais, 4 Ottawa pour n6gocier avec 
les agences gouvernementales. En plus d’avoir donner son 
temps et payer de sa poches les voyages, Barry donne aussi de 
son travail. 

6. Vous §tes peut-@tre dans Pimpossibilit4 de contribuer 
financi4rement, alors offrez votre aide, votre savoir faire. 
L’Association a besoin de vous. Contactez le bureau national 
de (’Association. 

7. Votre appuie est n6cessaire et sera grandement appr4ci4e. 
Vos dons sont deductibles pour fin d’impot S’il vous plait, 
donnez g4n4reusement 

L’ACC survivra-t-elle? Dites-vous OUI, et faites votre part, afin 
de garder cette association nationale. Une association utile, 
n6cessaire et pertinente. Devenez membre 4 part enti4re. 


C.A.A. /A.C.C. 50TH ANNIVERSARY 
PATRONS’ FUND 


NAME AND ADDRESS: 


I/We contribute this amount: $_ 

to the Canadian Camping Association / Association Des 
Camps Du Canada 

Please make cheques payable to: 

Canadian Camping Association 
c/o 1806 Avenue Road 
Suite # 2 
Toronto, Ontario 

All Donations are income tax deductible. Reg'd Canadian Charitable organization Reference Number 0618397-56-13 


Method of Payment: 

Cheque/Cash Enclosed: $ 
Pledge Donation: $ 

$_in 19_ 

$_in 19_ 

$_in 19_ 

$_in 19_ 

Date _ 

Signature _ 






CAMPING: 



From Coast To Coast 
D’un Ocean A L’Autre 












in 




Newfoundland & Labrador 
Camping Association 

Judy May 
President, N.L.C.A. 

Amidst blizzardy winds and piles of snow the NLCA 
executive is keeping the camping spark aglow. We had set 
goals of improved communications, expanded services and 
increased membership. A Fall Newsletter was published, the 
first in two years, and the winter issue is in the works. A 
Christmas social was held at Camp and a leadership 
workshop is planned for some time early in this new year. 
Former members have been contacted as part of a mem¬ 
bership drive strategy. 

The ball is rolling and we are looking forward to an active 
“New Game”. 


^ L’Association du camping de 

—v Terre-Neuve et du Labrador 

‘ Judy May, prksidente 

Malgr6 les tempStes, le froid, le vent et la neige, le personnel 
de (’Association du camping de T.N. et du Labrador a 
sauvegarder retincelle du dernier feu de camp en vie. 
Am6liorer la communication, etendre les sen/ices et augmen- 
ter le nombre de ses membres sont parmi les objectives 
fix§es. Un circulaire a paru I’automne dernier. Le premier en 
deux ans. Une activity sociale a eu lieu k Nodi. Un ateliersur le 
leadership se tiendra dans la nouvelle annde. 

Les anciens membres ont ete avise. Ceci fait partie de notre 
campagne de souscription. Les jeux sont fait; reste plus qu’d 
trouver les joueurs. 


^ New Brunswick 

Camping Association 

The New Brunswick Camping Association is in the midst 
of re-organizing and reviewing its mandate. A very success¬ 
ful meeting was held in late fall to review projects, draft con¬ 
stitution changes and generally do some housekeeping. A 
second meeting of the interim steering committee will take 
place in January while the new executive and re¬ 
organization changes will be completed and implemented at 
the association’s annual meeting and Camp Committee 
Conference set for Moncton on April 8th and 9th. 

The new faces joining N.B.C.A. have provided fresh ideas 
and a revitalized interest in the association. 


^ L’Association du Camping 
du Nouveau Brunswick 

L’A.C.N.B. est A reviser et k r&valuer son mandat. Une 
reunion tr6s r6ussie a eu leiu en automme. Nous y avons revue 
certains projets, apporte des changements k la constitution 
ainsi qu’un grand manage d’automne au sein de (’Association. 
En janvier, aura lieu une deuxteme reunion. Celle du comite 
interim. 

A la conference annueile du comite de camps qu’aura lieu k 
Moncton les 8 et 9 avril, ou le nouvel executif prendra 
forme. 

Ces nouveau venus au sein de I’ACNB ont apporte du sang 
nouveau et des idees nouvelles. 


5 



Efforts continue as well to have the minimum wage deci¬ 
sion reversed to the position of having camps exempt. 

Discussions with the new Minister of Labour, are proving 
to be worthwhile. 


Atlantic Region Report 

Ian Fowler 

Atlantic Vice-President 

The fall was slowforthecamping movement in Atlantic 
Canada, however, with spring not far off activity levels 
heighten in preparation for the summer months. 1 look 
forward to scheduled trips to the Camping Association of 
Nova Scotia’s spring workshop in early May and to New 
Brunswick’s annual meeting in April. As well. I’m hoping 
to visit Newfoundland in the early part of 1988 to meet 
with their executive on the west coast. 

Finally, meetings have been arranged with Don LeClair 
of the provincial government in Prince Edward Island 
with the hopes of launching an organized camping move¬ 
ment in P.E.I. 

Atlantic Canada is hoping for another banner year of 
camping in 1988. 


A Quebec’s Region Report 

Gerard Bachand 
’ Quebec’s vice-president 

Since last summer, QCA’s activities are booming. See 

for yourself! 

% 

A new program in leadership for the administrators 
was presented, new course for directors (Directeur 2) has 
started in December, similar courses for monitors have 
also started in December. 

QCA is working very closely with the Ministry of Rec¬ 
reation and Games on two important studies. The first 
one on the question of insurance and a second one on 
summer camps clientele (market study). 

We are now at the stage of intergration by the Adminis¬ 
tration Council (scheduled for mid-January). This is in 
regard to the developmental plan of the Association. 
These stages were preceded by an orientational plan, 
issued last May. 

Finally, a Camp Fair is in planning for early in the new 
year."This fair will be held at the Desjardin’s Center in 
Montreal (Complexe Desjardin). 


Les efforts continuent afin de renverser la decision sur le 
salaire minimum. Les discussions avec le nouveau Ministre 
du Travail semblent porter fruit. 


Compte rendu de la 
Region Atlantique 

Ian Fowler, 

President-Adjoint 

Les activity dans la region de I’Atlantique ont 6t§ lente 
I’automne dernier. Cependant, avec I’arrive prochain des mois 
dtetel’inter§t-grandi rapidement. 

C’est avec anticipation que j’entrevois me rendre en 
Nouvelle-Ecosse en mai, pour assister aux ateliers du prin- 
temps. En avril, j’assisterais k I’assembtee annuelle qui se tien- 
dra au Nouveau-Brunswick. Au debut de 1988, je me rendrai k 
Terre-Neuve pour y recontrer leur exScutif. 

Pour terminer, j’assisterai A des reunions organises par le 
gouvemement de Pile du Prince Edouard afin d’y orgsaniser 
une association provinciale sur le camping pour la province 
de Pile du Prince Edouard. 

Nous, de la region atlantique esperons avoir une autre 
ann§e du tonneur en 1988. 

X Compte rendu de la 
Region du Quebec 

/ A°\ G6rard Bachand 

Vice-President Quebec 

Depuis l’6te dernier, Pactivite ne manque pas k I’ACQ 
Jugez-en par vous-meme! 

Dans le domaine des stages de formation: un nouveau pro¬ 
gramme k lintention des Administrateurs a 6te ptesente, le 
nouveau cours de perfectionnement k Pintention des direc- 
teurs (Directeur 2) a d£bute en dScembre, de meme que le 
stage de Formateur-plus k Pintention des responsable de la 
formation dans les Camps et qui dSbute lui aussi en 
d6cembre. 

L’ACQ m6ne collaboration avec le Ministers du Loisir de la 
Chasse et de la P6che (MLCP) deux importantes etudes, Pune 
sur la question des assurances et I’autre sur la clientele des 
camps de vacances (Etudes de marclte). 

Nous en sommes rendu k Itetape de (’acceptation par le 
Conseil d’Administration (ptevu pour la mi-janvier) en ce qui 
conceme le plan de d£veloppement de PAssociation. Ce pro¬ 
cessus fut d’abord pr6c&te par Itelaboration d’un plan 
d’orientation d6pos6 en mai 87. 

Enfin, une Foire des Camps se prepare pour le d6bute de 
88, ou I’ACQ est le maitre d’oeuvre. Le tout se d6roulera au 
Complexe Desjardins de Montreal. 


6 


I also want to extend a warm thank you to Mr. Ken Willis 
for all the years he spent working for the QCA and for his 
contribution to the camping association. 

By the same token, I wish to welcome Mrs. Madelene Allen 
who will be taking Ken’s place. 

4 I | Ontario Region Report 

T | ■ Sally Moore 

- i J I -1 Ontario Vice President 

Camping people at Fall training events boast full registra¬ 
tion, newcamp programs and of the events which made sum¬ 
mer 87 unique and one to remember. However, it does not 
take long for us to switch gears from what was ... to the 
dreams of what could or will be in 1988. Camp directors in 
Ontario are now planning their promotional calendar; camp 
fairs throughout the province are now reality. Preparation 
for 88 is gaining momentum. Can you feel it? 

Ontario’s Fall workshop, at the new Mono Cliffs Outdoor 
Education Centre, was a smashing success for those who 
attended. This weekend featured a full program supporting a 
section from the CCA/ACC Camp Directors Curriculum. 

The Annual Conference for Directors and Senior Staff, 
held in January, at the Inn on the Park, also highlights in the 
program those topics which could be cross referenced with 
the curriculum. The conference committee is making it easy 
for conference delegates to address their ongoing pro¬ 
fessional training. The attending delegates are the ones who 
benefit most. 

All Provincial Camping Associations are made up of a 
core of supportive volunteers, but only a few are nationally 
recognized with words of appreciation for their work. OCA 
hums with the enthusiasm of many hard workers and these 
people are what makes the OCA tick. No matter how busy 
these folks are with their camping operations or with their 
non-camping professional lives, many have dedicated hours 
of work to unrecognized achievements as these tasks may 
sometimes be routine. Those who sit on a committee/task 
force, seek answers for the operational review, give presen¬ 
tations at conferences, sell books and/or lottery tickets, post 
CCA’s promotional flyers, participate in the fun of a benefit 
meal to support CCA, attend a standards training event, 
encourage senior staff to come to conferences, and those who 
write articles for the newsletter . .. you are the people who 
make camping a happening in Ontario. Your involvement is 
appreciated. Thank you. 

f a 

All of these people reporting on 
these pages are volunteering their 
time to make the Association 
better. Talk to them, encourage 
them and, best of all, offer to help 
them! 


Je desire aussi dire un gros merci k Monsieur Ken Willis 
pour toutes ces ann6s donn6es k I’ACQ et & la cause des 
camps. Dans le meme souffle je souhaite la bienvenue k 
Madame Madelene Allen qui prend la retevw de Ken au sein 
du Conseil d’ Administration. 


Compte rendu de la Region de 
. I’Ontario 

jk I | Sally Moore 

|| I Vice-Pr6sidente Ontario 

Au camp d’automne, les organisateurs etaient heureux car 
c’6tait complet. On se rappellera de l’6t§ &7 k cause des 
nouveaux programmes et de <§venerments qui y sont 
d6routes. Cependant, il ne nous a pas fallu beaucoup de 
temps pour publier le passe et penser k ce que sera ou devra 
§tre 1988. Les directeurs de camps ontariens preparent leur 
calendrier de promotions. Les foires organises par les 
Camps vont bon train. La preparation pour I’ann6e 88 prend 
de I’ampleur. Le sentez-vous? 

En Ontario, les ateliers d’automne au nouveau centre 
d’gducation “Mono Cliff’, ont connu un succds formidable 
pour tous ceux qui y on participe. La fin de semaine com- 
prenait un programme bien rempli tire du “Programme 
d’etude des directeurs de Camp” de I’ACC. 

La rencontre annuelle des directeurs et des cadres 
intermediaires a eu lieu en janvier au “Inn On The Park”, aussi 
en ont-ils profite pour faire ressortir, dans le programme, les 
sujets qui s’apparentent avec ceux du “Programme d’etude’’. 
Le comite s’efforce de faciliter (’acquisition de connaissances 
professionelles aux deiegues. Les d6l6gues presents sont 
ceux qui en profitent le plus. 

Toutes les associations provinciates sont composees d’un 
noyau de ben6vales, mais bien peu resolvent un mot 
depreciation pour leur travail. L’ACO besogne avec tous ces 
travailleurs enthousiastes et ce sont ces gens qui font que 
I’ACO puisse exister. Peu importe que ces gens solent pris par 
leur travail dans I’organisation des camps ou pris par leurs 
occupations professionnelles en dehors des camps, 
plusieurs ont consacre des heures de travail k remplir des 
taches cach6es qui semblent parfois n’etre que de la routine. 
Ceux qui font partie des comites, d’un groupe de travail; ceux 
qui cherchent les reponses pour les operations courantes; qui 
font les presentations aux conferences; qui vendent des livres 
ou des billets de tirage; qui expedient les capsules 
publicitaires; qui participent aux levees defends ou aux repas 
benefices pour aider I’ACC; qui assistent aux sessions de for¬ 
mations; ceux qui ecrivent des articles pour le bulletin de 
liaison... Vous etes de ceux qui font que les camps existent en 
Ontario. Votre participation est appr6ci6e... MERCI. 




L-R Sally Moore (Vice-President - Ontario), Bruno Morawetz (Camp 
Ponacka) and Catherine Ross (Camp Mi-a-konda) discuss future direc¬ 
tions for the Society / of Camp Directors at a recent dinner meeting. 


Ontario Camping Association 

Jane McCutcheon, 

President 

Hurray for Conferences! We camping folk love the oppor¬ 
tunity to gather together with fellow campers to talk about the 
past, present and future. We, in Ontario, have done just that! 
We “Shared The Spirit" of Camping at our Annual Con¬ 
ference for Directors and Senior Staff and we had a terrific 
three days doing it. A change in procedure saw us holding our 
Annual Meeting in conjunction with the Conference this 
year. At that time we welcomed and acknowledged many 
Past Presidents and Honourary Life Members of the OCA as 
well as greeting Presidents of Associate Provincial 
Associations. It was our pleasure to welcome Mr. Bert Fine of 
Forest Valley Day Camp of Toronto as our newest Life 
Member. 

At this years Conference we were honoured to receive 
leadership from Dick Chamberlain and Edie Klein, President 
and President-elect of the American Camping Association res¬ 
pectively. WOW! What spirit these two fine leaders have to 
share. 

Diane Blair of Camp Gay Venture was our Conference 
Chair for the second year in a row. To Diane we express our 
heartfelt thanks for a superb three days. 

Early January was ballot time for Ontario and by the time 
this magazine hits the streets our 1988/89 Board of Directors 
will be in place. 

The OCA is looking forward to implementing many of the 
recommendations included in the final report of our 
Operational Review. OCA is proud to present to Larry Bell of 
Camp Robin Hood the Dorothy Walter Award of Excellence for 
his tireless efforts on our behalf. Most notably he has been 
instrumental in the computerization of the OCA Office and 
in the entire Operational Review Process. Congratulations, 
Larry! 

OCA continues to grow, to change and to learn. We are all 
excited about the opportunities we have for 1988. We wish all 
other Provincial Camping Associations good luck with their 
various conferences and training events scheduled for the 
next few months. 


Association des Camps 
de TOntario 

Jane McCutcheon 

En route pour les rencontres. Nous les gens de camps, 
aimons nous rencontrer entre nous pour parler du pass6, du 
present et du futur; et ici, en Ontario, nous avons fait juste pa. 
Nous avons partag§ I’esprit des camps a notre rencontre 
annuelle des directeurs et des cadres intermediates et nous 
avons v£cu trous jours du tonnerre. Pour changer, nous avons 
tenu notre reunion annuelle conjointement avec la rencontre. 
Nous avons accueilli le retour de plusieurs anciens presidents 
et les membres honoraires a vie de I’ACO; nous avons £gale- 
ment joui de la presence des presidents d’organisations pro¬ 
vinciates amies. Ce tut un plaisir pour I’ACO d’accueillir M. 
Bert Fine, du camp “Forest Valley” de Toronto, comme 
notre nouveau membre honoraire a vie. 

A notre conference, cette annee, nous avions I’honneru 
d’avoir comme animateur Dick Chamberlain, actuel presi¬ 
dent de (’Association des Camps Americains, et Edie 
Klein, president eiu de I’Association. Quel enthousiasme ces 
deux chefs ont a partager. 

Diane Blair, du Camp “Gay Venture”, dirigeait la con¬ 
ference pour la deuxieme annee de suite. A toi, Diane, nous te 
disons le plus chaleureux merci pour ces trois superbes 
journees. 

Au debut de janvier, nous avons envoye les bulletins de vote 
a tous nos membres et lorsque ce magazine sera a I’impres- 
sion, nos directeurs pour 1988-89 seront eius. 

L’ACO a hate de mettre en pratique plusieurs excellentes 
recommandations proposees dans le rapport final de notre 
revue operationnelle. L’ACO etait tier de presenter a Larry 
Bell, du Camp “Robin Hood”, le Prix d’Excellence 
Dorothy Walter, pour son travail d’informatisation du bureau 
de I’ACO et le remantement complet de notre systeme 
operationnel. Felicitations, Larry! L’ACO continue a grandir, a 
changer et a apprendre et nous sommes tous enthosiastes de 
voir les possibilites qui nous sont offertes in 1988. Nous 
souhaitons bonne chance a toutes les autres Associations 
Provinciales dans leur camp de formation et leurs rencontres 
qui auront lieu au cours de I’hiver et du printemps. 


Toutes personnes qui travaillent 
au reportage des articles que 
vous lisez dans la revue sont 
des personnes qui ont 
volontairement donne leur 
temps et leur talent a 
I’Association. 

Prennez quelques minutes de 
votre temps pour leur 
parler, pour les encourager 
et mieux encore, 
offrez leur vos services. 


8 






Camp Ponacka 1987 

L’Association des Camps 
du Manitoba 

Calvin Desmarais 
President 


L’Association des camps manitobains a 6t6 irks active 
durant les derniers mois. Nous consid^rons cette activity 
comme un signe de vie et de progr^s. Ce progres n’a rien de 
spectaculaire mais il est continu. 

Notre Conseil d’administration compte maintenant dix-sept 
membres dont trois choisis en dehors des cadres. Ces der¬ 
niers auront pour fonction de preter main-forte k ceux qui, a la 
tete des comites, ont une tache bien d§finie; ce travail leur 
donnera I’occasion d’acqu^rir une experience qui leur per- 
mettra d’assumer, dans les ann£es a venir, des respon- 
sabilites plus grandes. Le President aura une double fonction: 
la formation des directeurs d’ateiliers et I’organisation de la 
conference qui se tiendra les 29,30 avril et le 1 er mai de 1988 
au camp de “Lakeside”. 

Une autre preuve de vitalite fut le succes de la soiree des 
directeurs du M.C.A. en novembre dernier. Nous etions vingt- 
cinq reunis pour discuter de nos projets; a savoir; le besoin 
d’avoir des infirmieres pour nos camps; I’etat de nos finances; 
les normes a definir concernant les moniteurs et les monit- 
rices; les conditions d’admission et de nombreux autres 
sujets. Ces reunions, qui permettent d’echanger librement 
nos points-de-vue, sont tres enrichissantes. 

Au cours de I’annee, nous accueillerons Kelly Picken, 
representante de P.A.R.C. et Jennifer Perron, la nouvelle 
vice-presidente du C.C.A. de I’Quest. Leur savoir-faire et leurs 
conseils nous seront une aide precieuse. 

Nous reexaminons notre constitution, compietons notre 
bulletin de liaison, planifions des ateliers de directeurs et 
etablissons des normes pour aider ceux qui auront a decider 
si un camp doit etre accredits ou non. Enfin, nous revisons 
notre politique concernant notre fond “Sunshine” qui nous 
permet d’envoyer des enfants moins fortunes, a des camps de 
vacances pendant \'k\k. 

Nous continuons toujours a recruter des b^nevoles pour 
travailler aux camps manitobains. 


The Manitoba Camping Association has been busy over 
the past months. We would like to see our activity as a sign of 
growth, life and vitality. We are seeing that growth is seldom 
spectacular but occurs through persistence. 


Our Board has expanded to 17 people, including 3 mem¬ 
bers at large. The members at large align themselves with 
various committees for specific tasks. Over the year, each will 
have experienced various facets of the association and will be 
ready to assume greater responsibilities the following year. 
The Conference Chair has been split into two positions, 
training and conference. The Training Chair will concen¬ 
trate on the Directors' Workshops, the Conference Chair on 
the Annual Spring Conference (April 29,30 and May 1,1988 
at Lakeside Camp). 


Evidence of growth and life can also be seen in the success 
of the Director s Evening M.C.A. held in November. Close to 
25 people gathered to discuss nurses at camp, funding, stan¬ 
dards and a variety of other topics. There is value in meeting 
to share ideas and concerns. 


As we look at the year we welcome input from our P.A.R.C. 
representative, Kelly Picken and our new Western Vice- 
President to C.C.A.. . . Jennifer Perron. 


We are reviewing our Constitution, working on the new¬ 
sletter, planning Directors Workshops, and setting up a for¬ 
mat to standardize the Camp accreditation assessment visits, 
and updating policy for our “Sunshine Fund" which assists 
children financially to attend accredited camps in 
Manitoba. 


As always we continue to look for people to work for 
CAMPING IN MANITOBA. 






JSi* 








m 




* 


rm 


m 


Manitoba Camping 
Association 

Calvin Desmarais 
President 


9 




Prairie Region Report 

Jennifer Perron 
Vice-President Prairies 

Time is flying! It’s hard to believe, yet the 1988 Camping 
Season is just around the comer. 

As the new person on the block with C.C.A. my first and 
most important responsibility is to acquaint myself with my 
region. Also, one of my first priorities is to make the Prairie 
Region one of the most active members of C.C.A. 

New and exciting things are happening with both the Sas¬ 
katchewan and Manitoba Camping Associations. I am look¬ 
ing forward, with enthusiasm, to being part of these 
“happenings” for the 1988 Camping Season. 


Compte Rendu de la Region 
des Prairies 

Jennifer Perron 
Vice-Prksidente Prairies 

Le temps s’envole! C’est difficile k croire mais pour les camps, 
la saison 88 est dkik I&. 

En tant que nouvelle personne au sein du Conseil d’Adminis- 
tration de I’ACC, ma premiere et plus importante responsabilitS 
est de me familiariser avec ma region. Une de mes priority pre¬ 
mieres est aussi de faire en sorte que la region des Prairies soit 
une des plus actives parmi les membres de I’ACC. 

Des §v6nements nou veaux et amballants se dessinent pour les 
associations de la Saskatchewan et du Manitoba, et j’anticipe 
avec enthousiasme ma participation k ces 6v6nement pour la 
saison 88 dans le mande des camps. 


Got a Minute? 


Avez-vous un Minute? 


Here are a few interesting highlights, notes and action 
items from your C.C.A./A.C.C. Board of Management’s 
Fall Meeting: 

- A third international Congress to take place in 
Toronto has been proposed. Details to follow! 

******** 

- Requests for donations to the Patrons’ Fund were sent 
out in the Fall of 1987. It is important for everyone in C.C.A./ 
A.C.C. to realize that we all need to take responsibility for 
raising funds in order to ensure that the good work of the 
Association can continue. 

******** 

- The Publications Committee has been asked to seek 
French Language Books — any ideas? 

******** 

- There is no money left in the budget to produce this 
very C.C.A./A.C.C. Magazine you now hold in your hands. 
Do you have any suggestions for advertisers or sponsors for 
our magazine? If so, write the Editors TODAY!! 

******** 

- Plans for a 1989 Directors’ Institute are underway. 

******** 

- Designs are being drawn up for flyers promoting 
Camp. They will be sent to Provincial Associations. 

******** 


Void quelques notes d’inter§t de votre comite de directeurs 
de I’ACC, de I’assembtee d’automne. 

- Un troisieme congtes international pourrait se tenir k 
Toronto. Information k venir!! 

******** 

- Demande de cotisation pour le fond des clients (Patron 
Fund) ont dte envoy§ & I’automne 87. 

II est de la plus grande importance quetous, de I’ACC teali- 
sent et soient responsable afin d’amasser des fonds afin que 
■’Association puisse continuer son excellent travail. 

******** 

• The comite de publication est k la recherche de livre en 
langue francaise. Vous avez des iddes? 

******** 

- II ne reste plus d’argent pour faire parattre la revue de 
I’ACC. Son sort est entre vous mains. 

Avez-vous des suggestions pourfaire passer les annonces, 
des commenditaires peut-Stre? Si oui, 6crivez d&s 
AUJOURD’HUI k Itediteur. 

Des projets pour I’lnstitut des Directeurs de 1989 sont en 
marche. 

******** 

- Des circulaires des logos des camps sont d£jd chez 
I’imprimeur. Ceux-ci sont pour fin publicitaires. Ils seront 
expSdiez aux associations provinciates respectives. 

******** 


- Deep concern was expressed by all over the financial 
outlook for C.C.A./A.C.C. 


- De s6rieux doutes et inquietudes au sujet des finances 
de I’ACC/CCA, nous hantent tous. 


10 








COMMITTEE NOTES Les Notes des Comitds 


Committee For Camps of 
French Expression 

Colette Pouliot-Marier 

The Committee has worked long and hard throughout the 
fall season so that it could be able to meet its obligations 
regarding the publication of the inventory of Camps of 
French Expression. This publication should be ready for 
early 88. 

However, the committee has not been neglecting its task 
concerning its language policy. On this note, the committee 
has worked closely with the Quebec’s Region vice-president, 
Gerard Bachand. To do so, we have granted to the Canadian 
Camping Magazine, our contribution in order to assure the 
translation of texts from English into French and from 
French into English, whenever necessary. This delicate task 
is the responsibility of Francophones, in and outside of 
Quebec. 

According to our French readers this has been a major 
improvement and it is very much appreciated. The commit¬ 
tee intends to do a whole lot more for the Magazine. 
However, we need an increased participation and committed 
effort from its francophone readers. As we can see in the last 
publication, there is still just a handful of French articles. It is 
indeed a challenge for the committee. 

The only restriction in the number of articles in FRENCH, 
the magazine can print, is only limited by the number of 
articles the publisher gets. 

It is up to us. Francophones. Our contribution is lacking. 
How about doing something about it? Send articles!! 

Public Relations Committee 

Alayne Scanlon 

This two-person committee has met fairly regularly over 
the past summer, fall and early winter with one ex-officio 
member of the executive ... actually, our President. 

We have accomplished some things though! A flyer pro¬ 
moting camping in general, not any one camp in particular, 
was developed and distributed to each Provincial Camping 
Association ... in hopes that it will see further distribution 
from there. To that end . . . the 2nd section in a “How-To 
Manual” deals with the question of’distribution’. (At time of 
writing this... the section is undergoing final revisions, with 
date of mailing to Provincial Offices scheduled for end of 
December.) The first section of the manual dealt with relat¬ 
ing to, and making use of. Cable TV stations and 
networks. 

The committee is actively pursuing a celebrity who will 
’voice’ a message for distribution to radio stations across 
Canada. We have the commitment of both a major recording 
studio in Toronto and a distributor... all we need is the right 
celebrity. We’re working on it and hope to have it on air by 
February. I moved to Kingston in the late summer so we three 
are finding it an even greater challenge to meet and to accom¬ 
plish our goals. But don’t lose hope — we haven’t! 


Le Comite des Camps 
d’Expression Franpaise 

Colette Pouliot-Marier 

Au cours de I’automne, le Comite a mene, en grande partie, son 
action en vue de rSpondre aux exigences de la publication de Pln- 
ventaire des camps d’expression franpaise 1988 (INCEF 88), 
dont ia parution est ptevue pour le debut de I’annSe. 

Le Comite n’a cependant pas neglige de poursuivre son action 
relative a (’application de la politique linguistique. Sur ce point, en 
collaboration etroite avec le Vice-president de la region de 
Quebec, Gerard Bachand, nous avons accorde notre contribu¬ 
tion a la Revue Canadian Camping Magazine en assurant des 
ressources pour la traduction: des Francophones du Quebec 
assument, depuis quelques mois, la tache delicate de traduir les 
testes angiais en francais, et vice versa, si necessaire. 

C’est une amelioration importante que deja, d’apres ce que 
nous avons entendu dire, plusieurs lecteursfrancophonesappre- 
cient, mais, le Comite devra faire plus pour ia Revue. II faudra que 
des efforts soient multiplies, entre autres, afin d’assurer des 
ressources pour la publication. Jusqu’a maintenant peu de Fran¬ 
cophones engages activement a la cause des camps de vacan- 
ces au Canada ont repondu aux demandes teiterees de i’Editeur. 
Les derniers numeros temoignent toujours de la raret des textes 
en francais. Necessairement le Comite devra se pencher sur 
ce probleme. 

Le place allouee au francais dans la Revue Canadian Camping 
Magazine ne depend-t-elle pas, dans une bonne mesure, de 
notre collaboration, en somme, de nous: les Francophones? 

Comite des Relations Publiques 

Alayne Scanlon 

Ce comite de deux personnes s’est reuni assez regulierement: 
a Itete dernier, et k I’automne et t6t cet hiver avec un membre ex- 
officio de I’executif... en I’occurance, notre Presidents 

Nous avons teussi a accomplir quelque chose: une capsule 
publicitaire pour la promotion des camps en general, chacune 
des associations provinciates... esperant que ces dernieres en 
feront la distribution. A cette fin, la deuxieme section du livre 
“Comment faire” traite des questions de distribution. (Au moment 
au nous r6digeons ce rapport... le comite est a faire les dernieres 
verifications en vue de I’envoi aux secretariats provinciaux ptevu 
pour la fin decembre. La premiere partie du manuel traite du cable 
et des reseaux de T.V. et de I’usage qu’on peut en faire. 

Le comite est a la recherche d’une voix en or pour enregistrer 
un message qui sera distribue aux stations radiophoniques k 
travers le Canada Nous avons la participation d’un grand studio 
d’enregistrement de Toronto et nous avons aussi un distributeur 
... il ne nous manque que la voix desiree. Nous y travaillons et 
nous esperons I’avoir sur les ondes en tevrier. 

Comme j’ai demenage k Kingston Itete dernier, nous trouvons 
plus difficile de nous teunir toutes les trois pour poursuivre notre 
travail. Mais ne desesperez pas nous n’ avons pas lache. 


11 




12 





PERSONALITY PROFILE 


Le Profil De Personnalite 


Lome Brown 

(1908 - 1976 ) 

From 1961 to 1975, Lome Brown was 
the Director of Camp Deka, a private 
camp for boys in the Cariboo district of 
British Columbia. For many years, 
beginning in 1925, he was a camper, staff 
member. Director and Committee mem¬ 
ber at the Vancouver Y.M.C.A.’s Camp 
Elphinstone. He was a President and 
one of the founders of the B.C. Camping 
Association, the founder and first Presi¬ 
dent of the B.C. Outdoor Educators' 
Committee, a President of the Canadian 
Association for Health. Physical Educa¬ 
tion and Recreation, and Chairman of 
the C.C.A./A.C.C. Nature Awareness 
Committee. His career in teaching led 
him to the Chairmanship of the Physi¬ 
cal Education Department of the 
Faculty of Education at the University of 
British Columbia. CANADIAN CAMP¬ 
ING MAGAZINE conducted this inter¬ 
view with Lome's wife. May Brown, a 
Past-President of C.C.A./A.C.C. (1965- 
67) and currently the Honourary Presi¬ 
dent of B.C.C.A. 



Lome Brown 

(1908- 1976) 

De 1961 & 1975, Lome Brown a 6t6 direc- 
teur du camp Deka, camp priv6 pour gar- 
cons, dans le district de Cariboo en 
Colombie-Britannique. Pendant plusieurs 
anneSs, depuis 1925, il a 6t6 campeur, mem* 
bre du personnel, directeur et membre du 
comit6 du YMCA de Vancouver, camp 
Elphinstone. II a 6t6 fun des membres fon- 
dateurs de TAssociation du camping de la 
Colombie-Britannique. En plus, il a fond§ et 
pr6sid6 le comity pour Education en plein air 
de la C.B. Ensuite il fut president de I’Associa- 
tion canadienne de la sant6 et de l’6ducation 
physique et de r6cr6ologie; president du 
comity sur l’6veil & la nature au sein de I’ACC. 
Professeur de profession, il a 6t6 chef de sec- 
teur de l’6ducation physique de la Faculte 
d’Education de I’universite de la Colombie- 
Britannique. Cette entrevue a 6t6 r6alis6 par 
la revue, aupr&s de sa femme, May Brown, 
pr^sidente sortante de I’A.C. de la Colombie- 
Britannique et pr6sidente sortante de ACC/ 
CCA (1965-67) et prSsentement pr^sidente 
d’honneur de I’ACCB. 


INTERVIEW WITH MAY BROWN 

CANADIAN CAMPING: 

In recent issues of CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE, 
we have read about the contributions to camping by 
Taylor Statten, Mary S. Edgar and Ted Yard. Now, May 
Brown, we would like our readers to know more about 
another great Canadian camper and educator, your hus¬ 
band Lome. 

MAY BROWN: 

Thank you very much for thinking of Lome and putting him 
into this category. I think he was a pioneer of camping in 
British Columbia. Actually, he was a bit of a pioneer in a 
number of things to do with education and recreation, but his 
first love of course was camping. 

CC: Let's try to discover all those things. May. We want to look 
at education and recreation, as well as camping, and 
organizations such as the YMCA. CAHPER. outdoor 
education — all the areas in which Lome had a meaning¬ 
ful impact. Did his life in camping start at an early age? 

May: Yes, Lome was a leader at the YMCA in Vancouver in his late 
teens, but before that when he was in Ontario. His love of the 
out-of-doors, I think, must have started then because, when 
he came to Vancouver as a young man still not having finished 
high school, he did link up with the YMCA and became a 
leader in their gymnasium classes. From there, he moved into 
the camping program at Camp Elphinstone. Those years had 
a great influence on Lome’s life because he met some very 
interesting and dedicated people in youth work and what the 
out-of-doors can do for youth. They made a big impression 
on Lome at that time and he stayed with the YMCA as a 
volunteer and a Camp Director/Leader right up through to 
when he was co-directing the camp in 1950. So it was a very 
impressionable time. 


May. can we go back to Belleville fora minute? How much 
of his early life was spent in Ontario? 

Well, he came to British Columbia in the early ‘20’s so he was 
about 16 or 17 years old when he came to B.C. His parents 
decided to move to the West and they headed for Calgary. 
Meanwhile, Lome stopped in Winnipeg to work on the har¬ 
vest with his uncle and then he proceeded on out but he came 
right through to Vancouver. His parents eventually went back 
to Calgary and Lome stayed on in Vancouver. 

Were there other children in the family besides Lome? 

He had a sister who lived in Calgary with the parents, got 
married there and since died. His next brother was Howard 
who went out to Australia, joined the Australian Armed Ser¬ 
vices in the Second World War and was lost in the deserts of 
Egypt in the big offensive there of the Australian army. Then, 
Jack, his youngest brother, stayed in the Service after the war 
and went on to get his Ph.D. in psychology. He worked at 
York University and has now since come back to B.C. 

So, Lome was the eldest. 

Yes, Lome was the eldest. 

And the whole family went West. 

They all came West. 

But he stayed and the others ... 

Yes, he stayed in B.C. while the others — his mother, father, 
sister and younger brother went back to Calgary. Howard 
eventually went out to Australia from B.C. 

... That was the early 20's. How much schooling had he 
completed by then? 


13 







May: He hadn’t finished high school so he got his high school 
education and went on to Normal School in 1928, then star¬ 
ted to teach in the Elementary System in Vancouver. In 1930, 
with what we called at that time a “Specialist Certificate in 
Physical Education,” he moved into a Junior Secondary 
School — Kitsilano High school — a new junior/senior high 
school which was a new phenomenon in British Columbia. 
He became one of the Physical Education teachers and, from 
1930 to 1940, he had a big impact on a tremendous number of 
young men in Vancouver. He wanted to finish his Degree but 
we didn’t have a degree program in Canada at that time in 
Physical Education, so Lome became involved and interes¬ 
ted in the University of Oregon and registered there but he 
didn’t actually get an opportunity to proceed there because 
he joined the YMCA War Service. 

CC: In British Columbia? 

May: Mostly in British Columbia, yes. Up and down the coast in 
the small stations, mostly Air Force stations. And then, after 
coming out of the Service, he went back into Physical Educa¬ 
tion through the Provincial Department of Physical Educa¬ 
tion and Recreation and from there to the Vancouver Normal 
School where he began to train teachers. In the meantime, he 
had been taking short courses at the University of Oregon 
and completed his Bachelor’s Degree. By 1956, he had 
attained his Master’s Degree. 

CC: Now, how did he get to the Faculty at the University of 
British Columbia? 

May: He was at the Provincial Normal School doing teacher train¬ 
ing when the Department of Education decided to phase out 
their Normal School. What they wanted to do was to put 
teacher training on a more professional academic basis. 
They had a Normal School in Victoria and one in Vancouver 
so they decided to amalgamate them to create a Faculty of 
Education at the University of British Columbia. They did 
that in 1956. The people who were on the Faculty at Normal 
School moved to the University into the Faculty of 
Education. 

CC: And part of the Faculty of Education was a Degree Pro¬ 
gram in Physical Education? 

May: They could go two routes. They could go through the Faculty 
of Education and get a Bachelor’s Degree in Education with 
a major in Physical Education or they could go to the School 
of Physical Education and get a Bachelor of Physical Educa¬ 
tion, then take one more year in Education. They could go 
either route and Lome worked in both those situations. He 
was Chairman of the Department of Physical Education 
within the Faculty of Education. 

CC: Here we are at the mid 50’s already and we haven't dis¬ 
covered when you entered the picture. May, or the details 
about Camp Elphinstone, so let's do that. Let's start with 
how you and Lome met. 

May: We actually met at a Physical Education meeting which is not 
very romantic or exciting but •.. 

CC: You’re not from B.C. though? 

May: Yes, I’m from B.C. Yes, my parents were Vancouver people. I 
went to McGill to get a Degree in Physical Education and 
when I finished in ‘471 went on the Faculty of the University 
of British Columbia. That was when I met Lome at a Physical 
Education meeting. He was at Normal School at the time. 

CC: So, it wasn’t a Camping meeting but it was a ... 

May: A Physical Education meeting and ... 

CC: But you’d had some camping too hadn’t you? 

May: Yes, I had directed Camp Oolawhan out of the Montreal 
YWCA. So we also met after that at the B.C. Camping 
meetings because Lome was still going to Elphinstone and I 
was very interested in camping. 


CC: When you graduated in ‘47 did you have a job waiting for 
you out West or... 

May: No I didn’t, I wanted to come West, I had an offer of a job in 
the East but I wanted to come West. I was going to be direct¬ 
ing Camp Oolawhan for the summer but I was looking for 
something for the fall so I was sent by the Montreal YWCA to 
a meeting in Ottawa which was the first meeting of the ... 
when they were going to establish a Canadian Camping 
Association. Blackie Blackstock was there and he 
introduced me to Marion Henderson Penney from U.B.C. 
He said to her, “You know, this gal is looking for a job.” She 
said, “Well, I don’t have any jobs to offer right now but I’ll 
keep you in mind.” It was an off-hand sort of thing but Blac¬ 
kie, bless his heart, talked to her and said, “Well, I know May 
Adams and if you are looking for somebody she would be 
good.” As it turned out, the woman they hired at U.B.C. bac¬ 
ked out so Marion got in touch with me and said “Are you still 
interested?” I said “You bet”. So I always credit Blackie 
Blackstock for getting me my job at the U. of B.C. 

CC: Well, now, Blackie Blackstock is a famous name in Camp¬ 
ing. Did he have his own Camp Mazinaw at that time? 

May: Yes he did. 

CC: And how did you know him? He didn't go to McGill, 
did he? 

May: Yes. He came to McGill. He had many qualifications but he 
didn’t actually have a Degree and he came to McGill to get 
his Degree in Physical Education. We became friends and, in 
later years, we sent our son, Greg, to Mazinaw to Blackie’s 
Camp for several years. It was a wonderful experience for 
him. Lome and Blackie over the years through CAHPER 
became very close friends. They were very much kindred 
souls and when Blackie would come to Vancouver for 
CAHPER he stayed with us and had quite an influence on our 
children. That’s why we sent Greg to his Camp. When Lome 
was President of the Canandian Association for Health, 
Physical Education and Recreation (CAHPER), 1955 to 
1957, it was all volunteers, and he worked off our kitchen 
table. That was when he met and made a lot of friends in 
Physical Education in Ontario, including Blackie. 

CC: Wasn't Blackie the first Executive Director of 
CAHPER? 

May: Yes, I believe he was. 

CC: You and Lome shared so many common interests. 

May: Yes. After we were married, in 1948, we started talking about 
having our own Camp. We had both worked for agencies in 
Camps but really liked the idea of having our own Camp. 
Lome had certain educational philosophies which we felt 
were almost impossible to put into practice in the school sys¬ 
tem. He felt that camping was very much an educational 
experience for children and that you should use educational 
theories and philosophies in Camp to make sure that it was a 
good fun experience but very educational. So he was very 
keen to establish a small camp to see whether he could, in 
fact, do something along that line — influence children and 
see if his various theories would work. 

CC: Just before we talk about your own Camp, let’s get caught 
up on Lome’s early leadership at the Vancouver YMCA 
Camp Elphinstone. How was he involved in Elphinstone? 
He started right away in the 20's did he? 

May: Yes. He was a junior leader and then he worked up through 
various program jobs to Camp Director. Then, he went on to 
the Camp Committee and worked very hard through the win¬ 
ters on the Committee. In 1950, Lome and Freddie Wilks 
became Co-Directors. 


14 






CC: In 1982, Paul Dampier very kindly sent us a copy of The 
Camp Elphinstone Story, the first 75 years. The Book is 
called “And a Million Memories Later/' Lome appears 
prominently throughout the book. His contributions to 
Elphinstone were tremendous. He was the President of the 
Golden E twice. He was Camp Director. Can we talk about 
Elphinstone and Lome's part in its history? 

May: The camp went through various evolutions as you can 
imagine depending on the leadership and they had some very 
excellent leaders w ho had great opportunity because many of 
their Camp Directors stayed for years and years. Lome 
really flourished on that when he was young. It gave him 
roots. It gave him something to hold on to. It had a big 
impression on him and he believed very much in tradition and 
the fact that children should feel there were certain things 
that you did at Camp that went on every year so they had real 
meaning for you. He felt that the out-of-doors had a certain 
religious aspect to it and that was better than sitting in the 
Chapel just listening to somebody preaching at you; that you 
tied it in with nature. And he w rote a number of things about 
that which I have read too. 

CC: Was T. H. Hutchinson one of the Directors? 

May: Yes, he was the General Secretary of the YMCA. I’m not sure 
he was a Camp Director but he certainly was a very big 
influence on the Camp and was the Camp’s founder. There 
were a lot of great names like George Ross, Gordon Hearn, 
Ken Spence, right through to the present Director, Lome 
Bowering. What a contribution he’s made to YMCA camp¬ 
ing, and still is, along with his wife Jean, who is the current 
President of B.C.C.A. 

CC: And it's on to Camp Deka. Your own Camp. You said a lit¬ 
tle earlier that your aim was to keep it small. Did you? 

May: Yes we did. The biggest we ever were was 48 boys in the main 
Camp. Then, we had our Wilderness Camp for senior boys 
across the lake which was an outpost for long canoe-trips. 

CC: And you started it when? What year? 

May: We bought the property in 1958. In 1955, the Government of 
the Province of B.C. realized they had to start protecting 
their shoreline both in lake and ocean so they passed a 
regulation in 1955 that they were not going to sell waterfront 
anymore from Crown Land. Land became scarcer and we 
could see that we were going to have difficulty so we began to 
look quite seriously in 1956-57 and in ‘58 we found what we 
wanted in the Cariboo on Deka Lake. We bought 100 acres, 
three quarters of a mile of lake frontage in a fairly remote 
location with the idea that we would just buy it and wait until 
the children were a little older before we started it. However, 
you know when you get into these things you get your 
enthusiasm and so we found that by ‘59 we wanted to go up 
there for the summer and start making plans. We put up one 
building and, in 1960, we began building our Lodge. By 1961, 
we opened. We were ready to open with 24 campers. It was 
very small. 


CC: You said Cariboo, that's inland? 

May: Yes, what we call the Interior Plateau of British Columbia. 
It’s up the Fraser Canyon. There is a plateau and we call it 
Cariboo-Chilcotin District in B.C. You are into a different 
kind of vegetation and climate than the coastal region, much 
sparser undergrowth with pine trees and it’s drier. It can be 
very cold in the winter with quite a bit of snow, but in the sum¬ 
mer the climate is very nice and the lake is very nice. 

CC: So. you had 24 campers that first year and did you always 
have boys only? 

May: Just boys. 

CC: Was there a reason for that? 

May: We felt it would be easier staff-wise to just have boys. As we 
got up to 48, people did request that we have girls, but we 
resisted partly because of the problems of staffing. We felt 
that it was easier to have a totally male staff. Over the 16 
years we operated, we found we had an increasing number of 
boys from one parent families and the one parent was the 
mother. This was one of the elements of why they wanted to 
send their boys to our Camp. It was small, there was a lot of 
individual attention and there was definitely the male 
influence, the strong, male leadership. It just seemed to suit 
our situation. It wasn’t that we didn’t... we certainly wanted 
girls to be at Camp but we just felt it was a better 
situation for us. 

CC: Earlier you mentioned your philosophical base . . . that 
Lome felt camping was educational and Camp was a good 
place to get some of these principles across. 

May: Lome had been through the school system and it upset him 
that a very good teacher would get a “promotion” to vice- 
principal and then principal. In other words, they were moved 
away from the children, from the direct contact, as they 
became more experienced and more skillful. He didn’t think 
that was right and he didn’t think in a Camp you should build 
too much of a hierarchy. You w ould be better to take the best 
counsellors you could get and make them cabin counsellors 
so you could have the best leadership possible in these units 
and also then that unit could be more independent and 
operate by itself. His idea was to have 6 cabin groups with 8 
boys in a group and a very senior person as a cabin coun¬ 
sellor. That group operated as a unit w ith a good deal of flex¬ 
ibility. It put more responsibility on the camper to plan and 
carry out their projects and their trips and their hikes and so 
forth and it gave them an opportunity to contribute, from the 
least skilled to the most skilled. He was the Program Direc¬ 
tor all 16 years we operated. Well, the 15 years. I operated it 
one year with Greg and Lome was the direct contact with the 
counsellors. Since it was small, he had his group of coun¬ 
sellors that he worked very directly with and they worked out 
their program each morning as to w ho needed the canoes and 
so on. Of course, we had a number of campfire programs for 
everybody, but they operated for the most part as 
individual units. 

CC: The emphasis was on a small group activity, mainly, and 
outdoor living skills. 

May: Yes. 

CC: Were there other special program emphases? 

May: We had a good variety of programming. We had horses and 
there were wranglers who helped with the horses and the 
teaching of that. And we had a very large canoe program, we 
had 22 canoes. 

CC: 22 canoes for 48 campers. 

May: Urn hmnim. We had 10 kayaks and of course we had the row¬ 
boats for the younger ones. We had a lot of out-tripping 
equipment so that, although the boys usually brought packs, 
we had enough if anybody didn’t have them. As well, we had a 


15 




lot of outdoor lightweight tents and things for tripping. We 
encouraged tripping and living out-of-doors so campers were 
“on the move” a good deal. 

CC: But you wouldn't have called it a Ranch Camp, though? 

May: No, no, we called it a Wilderness Camp for boys. 

CC: Your son, Greg, was really interested in the ranch aspect, 
wasn't he? 

May: Yes, and eventually we bought a ranch across the road, Greg 
ended up running the ranch and the boys used to go to the 
ranch quite a bit just because they loved to go and they loved 
to be around the ranch atmosphere. They would go there for 
an afternoon or a picnic or go to help with the hay one after¬ 
noon or something like that. 

CC: Did you call that the Deka Ranch then? 

May: No, it was called Drewey Lake Ranch. 

CC: Tell us about your spiritual emphasis at Deka. 

May: We didn’t have a real Chapel Service. In the morning, the 
boys gathered outside of the Dining Hall and Lome tried at 
those sessions to instill in them certain philosophies about 
leadership, citizenship. Then, at campfires, we did the same 
thing where Lome would give a small talk on something that 
was worthwhile because you had to choose the moment. You 
had to choose the setting and he felt that was much more 
effective than a formal — “Now, we go to Chapel on Sunday 
at 11”. Lome was very good at that sort of thing — giving a 
short little talk because he was so close to the youngsters and 
he chatted with them. He could bring the best out of 
them. 

CC: May, did Indian Council have any part in your 
campfire programs? 

May: Well, it came out of an Indian Council idea, but it wasn’t too 
formal. We used to have a Challenge Night and Lome was the 
Chief and actually did have an Indian jacket that he wore at it 
and he had a special cane he carried. When the Camp first 
started, he used tojust call himself “The Chief’ and, because 
we had loons on the lake, we call it “The Camp where wild 
loons call.” The boys called him Chief Loony Loon and he led 
the Challenge Night with a sort of mystique. He always 
walked up the trail from the lake as if he . .. he used to say 
“I’ve just paddled my canoe across the Lake from the moun¬ 
tain and have come to Challenge Night — so where are 
the challenges?” 



CC: Was it something like a pow-wow then? 

May: Yes it was like the pow-wow idea. The boys loved that, they 
like a bit of that tradition and lore... Indian lore brought into 
it and it wasn’t too formal. They didn't call him Chief Loony 
Loon at other times just at Challenge Night he was always 
Chief Loony Loon. 

CC: Is Deka still operating as a Camp? 


May: It was operating for 10 years. I was renting it. The last 6 
years, I had rented it to a group of people w ho ran a Camp for 
children with learning disabilities. They moved to the coast 
last year and the Camp was empty last year, sad to say. 

CC: Your family was involved? Both children, Greg and Bar¬ 
bara. were on staff? 

May: Yes, Greg was a counsellor. We started to send him away to 
other camps when he was 13 and he went back East to 
Mazinaw and then he went to a Camp that Lou Lanier ran in 
the Rockies, a climbing Camp. And then he went with Jack 
MacKenzie in Saskatchewan on an inter-cultural canoe-trip 
across the Churchill Chain. 

CC: Well, all of that experience would be helpful at Deka. 

May: Oh yes, oh yes. He had tremendous experiences at other 
Camps. Wonderful experiences and he had gone since he was 
8 at Elphinstone so when he was little he went to Elphinstone, 
8, 9 and 10. And then came to Camp Deka when he was 11 
and 12 and then we started sending him to other Camps. So 
he came back on staff then and worked with us and also 
helped with and started to run the Ranch. Eventually, Bar¬ 
bara worked in the riding program after she had finished her 
girls’ camping experiences. 

CC: But, neitherofthem really had the desire to continue Deka 
after Lome passed away? 

May: Well, Greg was the logical person to do it. He was living in the 
Cariboo and he certainly had the skills but, being a small 
Camp, it was the situation you had to do something else, you 
couldn’t make a living running the Camp. And of course, with 
the ranching, it was just the w rong combination because, in 
the summer in ranching, it was your busiest time and it was 
just not feasible. So, Greg had a big responsibility by then. 
He had built up this ranch and he felt that he should really 
continue with the ranch which he did then for a number of 
years until we sold it. Lome’s youngest brother. Jack, had a 
farm in Ontario and Greg bought that. I think our greatest 
asset was the staff we attracted. We had staff who came back 
year after year and helped us to build the traditions and many 
of our campers became counsellors. It was based really on 
good leadership, good food and good equipment. The 
buildings were strictly summer buildings. We had some 
cabins and a lot of tents. We had no electricity, we’ve never 
had electricity there. We ran the kitchen on propane and 
there was no power anywhere at the Camp. And everything 
was reasonably primitive. Our cooks cooked the bread and 
the pies and the muffins and everything. We always were very 
fortunate, our cooks were ranch women quite a bit of the time 
and we had a caretaker in the winter who cut ice and put it in 
the icehouse and the boys hauled it up into the ice boxes every 
second day and they had a good experience of knowing how 
you could get by without electricity, without many convenien¬ 
ces. We had a radio telephone of course for emergencies and 
we had a Health Centre. So, we stressed the things we felt 
were important which were leadership, good food, and good 
equipment, lots of canoes and things to work with and con¬ 
tinuity of leadership that we felt we gave and that our good 
staff gave. 

CC: Lome was very active in the B.C. Camping Association. 
Was he in at the founding of it? 

May: Yes, the beginning and, as far as I can trace, I believe 
B.C.C.A. started in 1940. There might have been meetings 
before that but, as far as I can recall or by asking people, I 
think it was incorporated in 1940. Lome was very involved 
with B.C. Camping right from the beginning. 

CC: He was one of the pioneers, and he has been President of 
B.C.C.A. probably more than once. 

May: He certainly held every office there was to hold and ran a 
good number of their Conferences. He did the program 
for them. 


16 



CC: Then, when you become President of the Canadian 
Camping Association, that was when? 

May: ‘65 - ‘67. 

CC: ‘65 - ‘67 I'll bet he was helping there, too. 

May: Oh yes, we really worked on it together, you know, and I hap¬ 
pened to be on the National Advisory Council for Fitness and 
Amateur Sports that took me to Ottawa a good deal. The 
CCA, at that stage, was very small and we had no money so I 
took advantage of those trips to go all across the country, 
stopping off with my air ticket and going to camping 
meetings in Alberta and Winnipeg and it was wonderful to get 
to Toronto so that I could work with people there who had 
such a background in camping. Lome certainly gave me 
tremendous help in that job and I enjoyed it. 

CC: That really worked so well to have the CCA Executive and 
Board move to the West Coast. It began to be a national 
organization then, didn’t it? 

May: Yes. Don Smith from Alberta was President just before I was 
and I think that was the first move out of Ontario and 
Quebec. It really solidified our whole country, because, for 
the next 10 years, it moved from Alberta to B.C. to 
Manitoba, where Doug McEwen was President and, even¬ 
tually, David Hartry in Nova Scotia became the President. It 
was wonderful for the people from B.C. to get to know the 
Ontario Camping people and the Quebec people, because we 
had quite a bit different philosophy. Many of the Agency and 
Church Camps here run a little differently. I think it was 
around the time we were starting our Camp when we began to 
get to national meetings and meet people and find out how 
camping was done in other places that it had a big influence 
on B.C. camping. 

CC: Not only was Lome supporting you when you were Presi¬ 
dent of C.C.A. but, during John Latimer's Presidency, he 
chaired our first National Committee on Nature 
Awareness. 

May: Lome was asked to organize a Nature Awareness Workshop 
which pleased him because he felt it was the best way to 
generate interest in nature lore, that could be passed on to 
staff and campers in our Canadian camps. 

CC: What about the B.C. Outdoor Educators? Was that group 
apart from B.C. Camping Association? 

May: Yes. It was called the British Columbia Outdoor Education 
Committee and Lome was the founder and the first Presi¬ 
dent. He felt that, if we were going to move into trying to get 
the schools more involved and widen this whole field of out¬ 
door education, we were a little bit too fragmented and we 
could be wise to pull people together. So, he started to do that 
both from the camping field, the school, people like the 
Youth Hostelling movement which he had become active in 
and the orienteeing people and all those people who were 
working in what we would call “Outdoor Education”. That 
became a very, very good group and Lome was the President. 
He chaired it and got it going and then Margaret Ramsey 
actually took it over and she did an excellent job, too. 

CC: And when was that. May? 

May: In 1967. I have a date of one of the very early meetings that 
was worked on. I think it had tremendous influence in British 
Columbia and in the school system in the early ‘70’s. But, 
Lome, according to the records I could find, called people 
together in one of the initial meetings in 1967. 

CC: That would be almost the forerunner of the Outdoor 
Education movement in the country. Once again, he 
was pioneering. 

May: Another thing that I should have mentioned earlier that I 
think he pioneered in was back as far ago as 1935 when Lome 
was teaching in the school system he also worked for the 


Department of Education and developed a correspondence 
course in Physical Education and Health for the rural 
schools of British Columbia. During that period, we had a lot 
of rural schools scattered all over the Province that had very, 
very little communication because they were pretty remote. 
Lome felt that even if you were a corresponding student and 
taking your education by correspondence that you should 
have a program in Physical Education and Health. Many of 
the children couldn’t get to the rural schools but they took 
their education by correspondence from Victoria and Lome 
developed a correspondence course for them. And although 
many of them he didn’t meet personally, he felt he knew them 
and kept in touch with them for many years as they grew up 
through this correspondence course and gave them their 
activities to do and their projects to do in Health and made 
suggestions of what they could do outdoors in Physical 
Education just as an individual, almost like the Duke of Edin¬ 
burgh Awards Program where you worked on it yourself. He 
developed a program that you worked on and then you wrote 
back and told him what you had done and he sent questions 
and quizzed you on it and that kind of thing. So it was quite an 
innovative idea in those days. He did that for 10 years, from 
1935 to 1945. 



CC: Were there other organizations? 


May: He was active on the executive here of the B.C. Youth Hostel 
Association and gave them quite a lot of good advice when 
they were in their early years. When I was cleaning out cup¬ 
boards and trying to be sure that I didn’t throw valuable 
things away, I was surprised at the material he had on Youth 
Hostelling and I took it back to them for their archives. Well, 
he believed in Youth Hostelling. He thought it was a good way 
for young people to travel, so he helped them establish sites 
and a program in B.C. He enjoyed that. Lome worked quite 
hard in what we call United Way now. It was called Com¬ 
munity Chest at the time and he did a lot of work in their 
Health Division of Community Chest. Then, in 1954, before 
the Commonwealth Games were held in Vancouver, he did a 
tremendous amount of work with the program for the Com¬ 
monwealth Games. He was one of the program people who 
had to co-ordinate all the sports and, during that era, I don’t 
think he was ever home an evening he had so many meetings 
to go to for each of the sports. 

CC: What an exciting time that was too because the Miracle 
Mile happened at those Games, didn't it? 

May: Yes, we had that and we were developing facilities here like 
the Empire Pool and the Empire Stadium. VVe called them 
the Empire Games then but it was a big thing for Vancouver 
and it was very successful. Lome was the Co-ordinator of 
Program. 

CC: Now, many, many years as an educator. Let's take some 
time there. What did he teach? 


17 






May: He was trained as an elementary school teacher, which was 
just for a short period of time. Then, he had this very mar¬ 
vellous opportunity to go to Kitsilano Jr./Sr. Secondary in 
1930. At that time we were just getting the phenomenon or 
the idea of Junior/Senior High Schools here in B.C. It was a 
new building, a new idea, a new theory and the school had 
only been open a short time. He was invited to come there on 
the Physical Education staff. After the War Service, he went 
with the Deprtment of Education and worked in establishing 
a lot of the high school sports, the championships, the com¬ 
petitions and supervising teachers. He was also teaching for 
the Department in what we called a crash course for men’s 
Physical Education. Men who had been in the Service had a 
lot of experience in physical training in the Services but we 
wanted to get them into the school system teaching Physical 
Education. We were very, very short of men teachers in 
Physical Education because of the war and Lome was giving 
them this course through the Normal School, then he joined 
the staff of the Normal School in 1947. He was involved in 
teacher training from 1947 until he went to the University in 
1956 and then stayed there until he retired in 1973. 

CC: Did he do some writing? 

May: Lome liked to write articles and he did quite a few for various 
magazines in the educational field, in camping, outdoor rec¬ 
reation and just through his work on the Faculty of Educa¬ 
tion. He was asked quite frequently to give talks and 
speeches and he made those into papers. He wrote them as a 
presentation he could send to magazines to be published. So 
he did write quite a bit. 

CC: I suspect the Education Department and the Teacher's 
Federation must have looked on him as being one of the 
outstanding leaders. 

May: Yes, I believe they did. Lome was never satisfied with the 
status quo. He was not prepared to sit and let things go that 
should be changed and so he was pretty courageous at times 
because it is not often easy to buck the trend, you know. 
Sometimes, he stated his case quite strongly and then had to 
defend himself w hich w as fine w ith him. He didn’t w ant to be 
complacent even though he had taught a long time. He was 
convinced we could always improve and he was going to try to 
make the changes that needed to be made. 


May: I think he was. There were many things he was very pro¬ 
gressive about. I’ve seen people recently coming forward 
with his ideas. He argued that many of our methods were just 
too traditional, too staid — we didn’t think of the individual 
enough — we were sort of teaching at people and not educat¬ 
ing people. He fought against the idea that Physical Educa¬ 
tion was a frill and that you could cut back on it at any time. In 
fact, he said we should be expanding the w hole idea of Physi¬ 
cal Education and Health. It’s interesting now because peo¬ 
ple are much more health conscious. He knew that your 
health was so important that you should never compromise 
on anything. He had quite an impact alright. 

CC: Did he ever discuss these things with other educators in 
other parts of the world, other parts of the country? Did he 
ever feel he was running alone? 

May: At times when I first met Lome, in the late 40’s I think he did. 
He used to say his preaching was not being accepted that 
well. Later, w hen he went to the University and began to work 
with a number of young educators, he was most encouraged 
because these young people really had ideas — Gary Pen¬ 
nington, Reid Mitchell, Norm Watt, those people who were 
on the faculty, were also wanting change and change of 
method. Lome was most encouraged. But in the early days, in 
the 50’s and 60’s, I think Lome saw himself as a voice in 
the wilderness. 

CC: You were professionally educated in the field, howdidyou 
feel about his ideas? 

May: ... Lome had many more radical ideas in Health Education 
than I had been accustomed to, although I must admit I did 
agree with him when I saw what he was getting at in terms of 
health linking with everyday living not just talking about 
health and studying bones and systems and so forth. I did 
agree with him. In Physical Education, I was very much with 
him on the idea of getting the children into the out-of-doors 
and linking Physical Education to your life skills and things 
that you would carry on to healthy living. I agreed with 
him. 

CC: When he retired there was quite a significant event. He 
was given a tremendous citation, wasn't he? 

May: I have the book the fellows in the Department put together 
which is a marvellous thing for me to have. It has a lot of his 
writings in it as well as messages from students. Lome was 
very well respected in his field and in the community and cer¬ 
tainly the children that went to Camp really did . . . some¬ 
times they thought he was very strict with them ... but they 
really respected him and really did have a great feeling for 
him. 

CC: May, all of us who knew him had a great feeling for him. 
He had strong convictions and stood firmly behind them, 
but camping, health, physical education and the whole 
field of human development benefitted immeasurably 
because of his tenacity and foresight. He was truly one of 
our persistent pioneers. 

May: That’s very kind and I really appreciate you doing this article 
on Lome. 

CC: He earned it. May. 


CC: Were there some things anti-teacher or anti-curriculum 


May: Well, I think more anti-curriculum and more anti-method. 
The method was what he felt more strongly about. 

CC: And in that regard, was he really ahead of his time? 


18 






L’ETRANGER 

by Jay Netherwood, Camp Kanawana 


Laisseriez-vous un stranger muni d’une scie & chaine couper tous les arbres adultes autour de votre camp? Bien sur que non! Pour- 
tant, c’est ce que nous, les directeurs de Camp du Quebec, faisons exactement Cet stranger a pour nom les pluies acides, ou plus 
pr6cis6ment les precipitations acides, 6tant donn6 que la neige fondante est la forme la plus meurtriere que cet Stranger 
emprunte. 

Si votre camp est situS dans le bouclier canadien (plus prScisSment dans les Laurentides) ou au sud du fleuve Saint-Laurent, votre 
flore et votre faune ont alors subi des dommages irrSparables. Si un Stranger muni d'une acie a chaine errait vSritablement autour de 
nous conjuguerions nos efforts pour exiger que notre environnement soit protSgS. Le probleme avec les precipitations acides, c’est 
qu’elles tuent lentement Nos lacs n’ont pas I’air polluSs; les branches de nos conferes paraissent vertes et vigoureuses; et nos arbres a 
feuilles caduques semblent bien foumis quand nous les regardons du sol. Par contre, Sloignez-vous de vos bouleaux et de vos Srables 
et regardez leur cime. La ou il devrait y avoir de nouvelles pousses, ill n’y a que des branches nues. Jetez ensuite un coup d’oeil sur I’in- 
tSrieur des branches de vos pins et de vos Spinettes. Les aiguilles sont-elles brunes? Avez-vous constate un plus grand nombre de 
tetards morts sur la rive de votre lac? Avez-vous remarquS a quel point votre site est silencieux pendant les nuits chaudes de juillet, com- 
parativement aux ann§es passSes, au vous puviez vous endormir doucement au chant des crapauds? 

Nos lacs tournent au vinaigre. Nos arbres adultes souffrent de d£p6rissement, maladie causae par les precipitations acides qui 
affaiblit Parbre et le rend vulnerable e la carle des racines, qui penetre Parbre chetif et le tue. Notre view amphibie se meurt. Et que faisons- 
nous? Riend du tout! 

En 1978, inquiets de la situation, les producteurs de sirop durable se sont reunis afin de former un groupe de pression aupres des 
gouvemement et des industries. Mais aujourd’hui, en 1987, qu’avons-nous fait? Nous, les directeurs de camp? Pourtant, nous avons 
certainement autant a perdre que les producteurs de sirop durable. Marchez autour de votre site et essayez de vous imaginer ce a quoi il 
ressemblera dans cinq ou dix ans. Vous camperez peut-etre alors dans un terrain vague et descendrez peut-etre des rivieres bordSes de 
buissons et d6nu£es de vie. 

Notre responsabilite doit aller au-dela de veiller & ce que nos campeurs vivent un experience estivale enrichissante en toute s£curit6. 
Nous devons aussi etre les gardiens de notre fragile environnement. Unissons-nous et exprimons nos preoccupations. Nous devons 
nous faire entendre. Nous devons faire prendre conscience au gouvemement que Penjeu actuel depasse largement la securite d’emploi 
d’une poignee de directeurs de camp; c’est une industrie au service des gens, une industrie qui est inquiete et effrayee. 

Ensemble, nous devons faire front commun. Individuellement, notre rdle d’Sducateurs devrait consister & promouvoir la protection de 
Penvironnement, car les campeurs et les moniteurs d’aujourd hui deviendront les industries et les politiciens de demain. 

Familiarisons-nous avec cet Stranger et retirons-lui cette scie S chaine des mains! 


THl STRANGER 

by Jay Netherwood 


Would you let a stranger walk around your camp with a 
chain saw, cutting down all the mature trees? Of course not. 
Well in fact we camp directors in Quebec are doing exactly 
that. The stranger s name is acid rain, or more properly, acid 
precipitation, for melting snow is the deadliest form this 
stranger assumes. 

If your camp is located in the Canadian Shield (especially 
the Laurentians) or south of the St.-Lawrence River then 
your flora and fauna have been irreparably damaged. If a 
stranger with a chain saw were in fact walking around our 
camps then we would all be up in arms, demanding protec¬ 
tion for our sites. The problem with acid precipitation is that 
it is a slow killer; our lakes look healthy, the outer branches of 
our coniferous trees look green and vibrant; and our 
deciduous trees seem full and bushy when we look up at 
them. But walk away from your birches and maples and look 
at the top, where the new growth should be —notice the bare 
branches? Look at the inside part of the branch of your pines 
and spruces — are the needles brown? Have you seen more 
dead tadpoles floating near the edge of your lake? Have you 
noticed how much quieter your site is on a warm July night 
when you used to be able to drift off to sleep, serenaded by a 
frog chorus? 

Our lakes are becoming vinegar. Our mature trees are suf¬ 
fering from die-back, caused by stress from acid precipita¬ 
tion which weakens the trees and makes them prone to 


shoestring root-rot, which enters and kills the weakened 
trees. Our amphibious life is dying. And what are we 
doing? Nothing. 

In 1978, concerned maple syrup producers banded 
together to form a body to lobby governments and industry, 
but in 1987 what have we camp directors done? Surely we 
have as much to lose as the maple syrup producers. Walk 
around your site and envision it 5-10 years from now, when 
you may well be camping in a field and tripping down rivers 
flanked by shrubs and devoid of life. 

Our responsibility must expand beyond ensuring that our 
campers have a safe and rewarding summer experience, it 
must also include that we are guardians of our fragile 
environment. Let’s get together and create a united voice — a 
voice that will be heard. We have to make government aware 
that what is at stake here is much more than a few camp direc¬ 
tors’jobs — it’s an industry devoted to people — an industry 
that is concerned and scared. 

Together, we should form a united front. Individually, we 
should as educators, promote environmental literacy, for our 
campers and staff of today will become tomorrow’s indus¬ 
trialists and politicians. 

Let’s become acquainted with this stranger. Let’s take the 
chain saw out of its hands. 


19 






CAMP MASSAD 

by Stuart Slayer 


Located on what used to be a farm fifty miles north ofWin- 
nipeg, Camp Massad is not a typical Manitoba Camping 
Association camp. Camp Massad is unique in that it is the 
only Hebrew language immersion summer camp in 
western Canada. 

Massad campers are faced with the challenge of going 
through their daily routines and activities in the ancient and 
historical language of the Jewish people. 

Everything from passing the salt to passing the ball to pass¬ 
ing the time is made into a Jewish experience by using the 
Hebrew language as a source of cultural transmission and 
communication. 

The Hebrew language, however, takes the staff and cam¬ 
pers of the 35 year-old camp beyond their daily routines. 
Massad offers a full array of cultural and dramatic program¬ 
ming all in Hebrew. 

The highlight of any Massad three-week session is “Mac¬ 
cabia" a two-and-a-half day competition encompassing 
almost every aspect of the camp programme. 

One of the most important parts of Maccabia is the “hat- 
zaga" or the play, when often fifty campers at a time star in a 
Hebrew language version of a popular play. 

This past summer was a banner year as the Maccabia 
teams produced highly entertaining versions of Peter Pan, 
The Ten Commandments, Little Shop of Horrors, and Grease. 
Even John Travolta and Olivia Newton-John would have 
marvelled at how a humble-Hebrew camp pulled off this 
ambitious musical. 

The campers and staff work for hours on end with lumber 
and standard art supplies in transforming the dining hall 
into a venue that would rival the finest on Broadway. 

“The drama emphasis at Massad serves two major pur¬ 
poses", explains Camp Administrator, Sophie Tapper. 
“Firstly, it allows children to use Hebrew in a fun way. which 
helps them gain a greater appreciation for the language, and 
secondly, performing on stage in front of their peers in a fan¬ 
tastic way for children to overcome inhibitions and gain self- 
confidence". 



Campers pose in front of a large outdoor wall mural painted by senior 
campers at Camp Massad. 


Dramatic performance is therefore emphasized many 
times throughout the session. Each cabin faces daily inspec¬ 
tion, “Bedikah", during which the campers present brief 
“shtiks", or skits, which they have composed while sweeping 
the floor and making their beds. A cabin with an especially 
good shtik will be asked to perform before the entire camp at 
the next meal. 

The advanced campers and the counsellors in training do 
not participate theatrically to the same extent as the younger 
campers. Much of the advanced programme is devoted to 
group building and Jewish cultural awareness through dis¬ 
cussion groups and simulation games. 

Perhaps the most proven simulation programme is the 
Soviet Jewry programme. The participating older campers 
are assigned identities of Soviet Jews and their goal is to 
emigrate to Israel. Senior staff members pose as Soviet 
bureaucrats as campers try to make their way through the 
system. 

The programme serves to teach the participants about the 
plight of Jews in the Soviet Union. The evening ends with the 
discussion of current developments in the issue. The result is 
usually a greater commitment by the campers to the cause. 

Another very effective advanced programme is the 
Holocaust Memorial Programme, which is especially 
beneficial for those campers who have never had a formal 
Jewish education. Very often, this programme is the first 
serious exposure some campers have to this most important 
period of Jewish history. 

The Massad philosophy also allows campers the oppor¬ 
tunity to gain new respect and greater understanding of 
Jewish religion and the State of Israel, through creative 
programmes. 

Aside from the cultural programming, Massad also boasts 
a solid repertoire of standard camping activities — canoeing, 
overnights, arts and crafts, orienteering, dancing, and sports. 
Swimming in Lake Winnipeg is a daily highlight looked for¬ 
ward to. particularly in the intense heat of a Manitoba 
July. 

Massad also has a tradition of gags, practical jokes, and 
plain old silliness. 

The most famous incident took place during the late 1950's 
during a visit by Queen Elizabeth to Manitoba. 

A handfull of scheming counsellors decided that the mon¬ 
arch's visit would be an ideal opportunity to play a trick on 
the rest of the camp. 

They informed everyone that the Queen's motorcade 
would be passing the camp. The campers responded 
enthusiastically by cleaning their cabins (in case Her High¬ 
ness decided to inspect their quarters) and by dressing in 
their Saturday best. 

When the staff and campers formed lines on the sides of 
the highway to cheer for the Queen, they discovered that the 
motorcade was a male counsellor dressed in long white 
gloves, a gown, and a red wig. sitting on the back of an old 
convertible. 


20 








Campers and staff of Camp Massad dance in honour of the 
Sabbath. 

The story about the “Massad Queen Hoax" made front 
page news in the Winnipeg Tribune the following day. 

It is that tradition of fun and “rauach" (spirit) that has 
made Camp Massad the success that it is. 


Sophie Trapper , office administrator of Camp Massad practises her 
craft. 

Fun, culture, dramatics, and camping activities — through 
the use of Hebrew and unique programming, Massad 
develops self-confidence, creativity, and pride in Judaism in 
Jewish youth. 


MOUNT PLEASANT 
NEIGHBOURHOOD HOUSE 


by Antonia Beck 


Many children attend various camps and in-city programs each summer. Though these children have the 
time of their lives, meeting new friends while participating in various camp programs, many of them do not realize 
that this opportunity is not shared equally throughout the world. All children, rich and poor, living in British 
Columbia are given the opportunity to register in some type of summer program whether it be in-city or at 
camp. 

Mount Pleasant Neighbourhood House, a social service in Vancouver, offers an in-city summer program which 
often includes trips to Camp Sasamat. The Neighbourhood House continues to see an increasing number of 
refugee families from Central America settling in its community. We were pleased to provide camp experiences to 
many children of these families. The experience was not only new for the immigrant children who were overcom¬ 
ing cultural shock and language barriers, it was also new for returning participants and for the English speaking 
summer staff. It was quickly apparent to staff that special attention was necessary in speaking clearly and in giving 
distinct demonstrations. A major emphasis of the overall program was on multiculturalism and educating 
everyone involved. 

As we provided many immigrant children with their first time “camp experience", it was encouraging to see the 
excitement and gratitude they displayed. This “special" summer proved to be an interesting "eye opener" for the 
many participants and staff who sometimes take their yearly camping experience for granted. 


21 













LEADERSHIP 

DEVELOPMENT 

FUND 


A. ROSS SEAMAN 


FONDSPOUR 
LA FORMATION 
DE RESPONSABLES 


We all lost a community leader, educational innovator, 
and consummate teacher and mentor in the passing of A. 
Ross Seaman on October 23,1987. His death is a loss to the 
countless people from the many places where he expen¬ 
ded his energies and warmth to help others to become the 
best they could be. Those who knew Ross best remember 
him for b eing on the leading edge of bringing the best 
possible resources to bear on the issues that engaged his 
energy —camping and leadership training, recreation 
leadership, and community organization, particularly as 
it relates to adolescent life and latterly as it related to an 
aging population. One colleague refers to him as a 
cheerleader of the human race, and this special quality he 
possessed and shared so generously warrants, we think, a 
remembrance on our part. 

As a result, a group of family, friends, and colleagues 
met in early November and proposed a living memorial 
through the establishment of a fellowship/scholarship/ 
bursary fund in his name for the purpose of leadership 
development. The A. Ross Seaman Leadership Develop¬ 
ment Fund will enable students in leadership areas 
(camping, recreation, community development, etc.) to 
pursue studies and/or experiences that could further their 
own leadership potential and skills. Our aim is to use only 
the interest of the fund, leaving the capital intact, so that 
the fund will benefit others throughout the years. 
Therefore, we have set as our minimum goal the sum of 
$25,000.00. 

We felt that you might be one of those who would wish 
to be invited to share in the establishment of this 
memorial to a person who has touched so many. One of 
Ross’ philosophies was to “pass it on” whenever he was on 
the receiving end of something meaningful and impor¬ 
tant to him. This is your chance to pass on something 
meaningful in his memory. 

Contributions or letters of inquiry may be sent to: 

Fonds Commemoratif A. Ross Seaman 

Universite Concordia, Bureau des finances AD 130 
7141 ouest, rue Sherbrooke 
Montreal, Quebec H4B 1R6 

A receipt for income tax purposes will be issued shortly 
thereafter. 

In this way, Ross will remain with us and his impact on 
our growth and development will continue to be felt by 
those who choose to follow his chosen field. 

NOTE: THIS IS NOT AN OFFICIAL CCA/AAC FUND¬ 
RAISING EFFORT. IT HAS BEEN ORGANIZED FOR 
AND THROUGH CONCORDIA UNIVERSITY. 


Nousavonstous perdu un chef defile de la communaute, un 
pionnier dans le domaine de I’education, et un professeur et 
un mentor accomplis lors de ddces de A. Ross Seaman le 23 
octobre 1987. Sa mort constitue une perte pour une foule de 
personnes des miltiples lieux ou il a ddployd son dnergie et sa 
compassion afin d’aider son prochain a rdaliser son plein 
potentiel. Ceux qui connaissent Ross se souviennent de lui 
poltot comme un homme qui rassemblait toujours les 
meilleures ressources possibles pour s’occuper des ques¬ 
tions qui I’intdressaient au plus haut point — les camps et la 
formation de responsables, I’animation d’activites et le 
ddveloppement communautaire, particulierement en ce qui 
touche les adolescents et rdcemment, la population 
vieillissante. Un collegue 6 ddcrit Ross comme “le supporteur 
de la race humaine”. Cette quality sp6ciale qu’il possddait et 
partageait si gdndreusement avec les autres justifie, nous le 
crayons, un geste commemoratif de notre part. 

En consequence, un groupe de membres de la famille, 
d’amis et de collegues se sont rencontres au debut de novem- 
bre et ont propose le creation d’une bourse ou d’un fonds 
d’etudes k la m6moire de Ross, afin de poursulvre son oeuvre 
dans la formation de responsables. Le Fonds pour la forma¬ 
tion de responsables A. Ross Seaman permettra aux 
etudiants accomplissant des taches d’animation dans les 
domaines des camps, de la r6creologie, du developpement 
communautaire, etc. de continuer leurs etudes ou leurs 
experiences de fa<;on k ameiiorer leur propres competences 
et possibilites en qualite de responsables. Notre but consiste 
e utiliser uniquement les interets generes par le fonds et k 
laisser le capital intact, de sorte que le fonds sen/e k d’autres 
jenues au fil des ans. Par consequent, nous avons fixe un 
objectif minimal de 25 000$. 

Nous pensions que vous seriez peut-etre au nombre des 
personnes souhaitant prendre part a I’etablissement de ce 
fonds commemoratifs au nom d’une personne, qui en a 
touche tenement d’autres. L’une des lignes de pens6e de 
Ross etait de transmettre aux autres tout ce qui etait 
significant et important a ses yeux. Void une occasion revee 
de “transmettre" quelque chose d’important en sa 
m§moire. 

Vous pouvez faire votre contribution a I’ordre du Fonds pour 
la formation de responsables A. Ross Seaman (Universite 
Concordia) et nous la retoumer dans I’enveloppe-reponse ci- 
jointe. Nous vous 6mettrons un re<?u a des fins d'impot peu de 
temps apres. 

Ross demeurera ainsi avec nous et son influence sur notre 
croissance et notre epanouissement contineura a etre ressen- 
tie par ceux et cedes qui choisiront de suivre ses traces. 


22 





THE P.A.R.C. NOTEBOOK 


bv ANIKO VARPOLATAI 


PHYSICAL ACTIVITY 

RESPONSIBILITY CENTRE 

As promised in the previous issue of Canadian Camping, 
this article will provide an overview of the results of the 
national P.A.R.C. survey conducted during the fall of 1987. 
The purpose of the survey was to determine the current status 
and needs of physical activity programs at Canadian camps. 
Each of the close to 600 CCA member camps was sent a sur¬ 
vey. and 197 (33%) were returned, providing a good represen¬ 
tation of each of the regions, as well as the types of camps 
represented within the CCA. The responding sample 
includes: 70 religious camps. 52 private camps, 50 agency 
camps, 14 special needs camps, and 11 others who did not fit 
into the above categories. Of these, 179 are residential camps 
and 18 are day camps. 

Despite the length and detailed nature of the survey, the 
majority of the respondents were very thorough in their 
answers. The relatively high return rate is also indicative of a 
strong interest in this important and, in many cases, central 
aspect of organized camping. Generally speaking, organized 
camping in Canada appears to be in “good shape”, literally 
and otherwise, if the survey results are an accurate represen¬ 
tation. The following highlights, to be followed by a more 
detailed summary report which will be mailed to all CCA 
member camps early in 1988. 

Survey Highlights: 

- More than half of the respondents (53%) said that physi¬ 
cal activity is “very important” at their summer camp, and 
identical numbers feel that both the quality and variety of 
physical activity programs within their camps are “good”. 

- 67.5% of respondents say that more than 50% of their 
camp program consists of physical activities. 

- the top five priority programs at the camps included (in 
order): swimming, religion, canoeing, boating, and land 
sports; the most popular physical activities (in order) were lis¬ 
ted as: swimming, canoeing, land sports (volleyball, base¬ 
ball, soccer, etc.), and watersports (sailing, windsurfing, 
kayaking, etc.). 

- Given the abundance of Canada's natural resources, it is 
perhaps not surprising that 70% of camps have available to 
them on-site: water, forest, and fields, and 28% have access to 
large hills and/or mountains. These “natural” physical 
activity “facilities” can provide the setting for a varied and 
complete program with minimal equipment! (Stay tuned for 
low-cost ideas on how to make good use of your natural 
playground.) 


- Camp objectives in relation to their physical activity 
programs are (i) to teach new skills, particularly for (ii) life¬ 
long leisure activities, (iii) to improve fitness, and (iv) rarely, 
to prepare athletes for competition (as in the case of 
specialized sports camps). Many of the respondents men¬ 
tioned the other, perhaps less tangible, but nevertheless 
significant benefits to be derived from physical activities. 
These included learning cooperative and leadership skills, 
enhancing self-esteem, feelings of success, and developing a 
holistic approach to life. A large number of camps expressed 
a preference for cooperative “New Games”, as opposed to the 
more traditional, competitive, team and individual sports. 

- Problems encountered by camps in providing quality 
physical programs included (in order): finding qualified 
staff (particularly for non-waterfront activities), the financial 
cost of facilities and equipment, the motivation of sedentary 
campers, and the need for new, fresh ideas which are low in 
cost, but high in participation potential. (Watch for the 
forthcoming series of “how to” booklets for camp staff which 
will address each of these problems.) 

- In relation to the above, the resources that are seen to 
be most needed and valuable to camps include (in order): 
resources for staff training (in physical activity program 
areas), physical activity program ideas, information about 
other organizations which specialize in one or more of the 
activities offered at camps, promotional information (both 
about the benefits of organized camping in Canada, 
generally, and specifically about the physical activity pro¬ 
grams offered by camps), and adapted programs for the spe¬ 
cial needs camper. (Each of these areas will be addressed 
through a variety of forums in the near future, including tips 
in the “P.A.R.C. Notebook”, conference workshops, 
publications, and an “active” poster series which you can use 
at your camp.) 

The large amount of data collected through the survey will 
be valuable over the next few years in guiding the Advisory 
Committee and the P.A.R.C. staff in the development of 
physical activity resources which will help the camps to 
enhance various aspects of their physical activity 
programming. 

Thank you again to all the camp directors, program direc¬ 
tors. and physical activity instructors who took the time to 
complete and return the survey. You have provided us with a 
better understanding of the physical activity programs at 
Canadian camps at the present time. You have also indicated 
what you would and would not like P.A.R.C. to do. We hope 
that this is only the beginning of an ongoing sharing of ideas 
and views as we work together to define what “physical 
activity” at Canadian camps means in relation to the camp- 


- The largest numbers of campers are aged 8-15, with 
almost equal numbers of girls and boys. 


ing philosophy, and how we can collectively work to make a 
good thing even better. 


23 




LE CARNET DE P.A.R.C 


by ANIKO VARPOLATAI 


LE CENTRE RESPONSABLE DES 
ACTIVITES PHYSIQUE 


Tel qu’il a ete promis dans le dernier nurrtero de la revue Camp¬ 
ing canadienne, cet article va vous donner une vue d’ensemble 
des tesultats de I’enquete nationale men6e a I’automne de 1987 
sur le P.A.R.C. Le but de cette enquete 6tait de presenter la situa¬ 
tion actuelle dans les camps canadiens et de montrer le besoin 
d’avoir des programmes definis pour I’activite physique. 

Sur les 600 membres de I’ACC/CCA k qui on a envoys un ques¬ 
tionnaire, 197 (33%) ont repondu. Ces teponses donnent une 
bonne vue d’ensemble de chacune des regions (voir la carte) 
ainsi que des difterentes sortes de camps qui font partie de CCA. 
Des reponses recues, 70 provenaient des camps dirig^s par des 
groupes religieux; 52, de camps priv6s; 50, de I’organisation des 
camps; 14 de camps specialises pour les handicapes et 11 aut- 
res qui n’entrent pas dans les categories mentionnees. De ce 
nombre, 179 sont des camps avec residence et 18 des camps 
de jour. 

Malgre la longueur et le caractere detailie de I’enquete, la 
majorite des repondants ont fourni des reponses tres 
minutieuses. Le pourcentage des reponses recues indique le 
grand interet que chacun porte a Pimportance d’avoir des camps 
bien structures. En general, le camping canadien semble en 
bonne forme si le resultat de I’enquete repond k la realite. Voici les 
points les plus importants qui seront detailies dans un prochain 
rapport et envoye a tous les membres de I’ACC/CCA au debut 
de 1988. 

Faits Saillants de L’Enquete 

Plus de la moitie des repondants (53%) ont mentionne que I’ac- 
tivite physique est tres importante a leur camp d’ete. Un nombre 
identique mentionne que la qualite et la variete des activites 
physiques sont tres convenables. 

- 67.5% des repondants notent que plus de 50% du pro¬ 
gramme de leur camp d’ete consiste d’activites physiques. 

- Les cinq programmes prioritaires dans les camps compren- 
nent, en ordre de priorite, la nage, la religion, le canotage, la voile 
et les sports. Les activites physiques les plus populaires sont: la 
nage, le conotage, les sports terrestres (ballon volant, ballon pan- 
ier, soccer) et les sports nautiques (voile, planche a voile, 
kayak, etc.). 

- Etant donne I’abondance des resosources naturelles du 
Canada, il n’est pas surprenant que 70% des camps aient a leur 
disposition, en plus du terrain, I’eau, la foret et que 28% aient 
acces a des collines plus ou moins eievees. Ces facilites 
naturelles peuvent fournir la mise en place d’un programme varte 
et complet avec un minimum dtequipement. Demeurez a I’affut 
des idees a bon marche sur la facon de faire bon usage de votre 
terrain de jeu naturel. 

- L’age des campeurs varie entre 8 et 15 ans et le nombre de 
garcons et de filles est sensiblement le meme. 

- L’objectif des camps par rapport k leurs programmes d’ac¬ 
tivites physiques est: I’enseignement de nouvelles techniques, 


vie; pour une plus grande habilete sportive mais rarement pour 
pteparer des athletes en vue des competitions comme c’est le 
cas pour les camps specialises dans les sports. Plusieurs repon¬ 
dants mentionnent d’autres objectifs qu’on peut tirer des activites 
physiques. Ms sont peut-etre moins apparents mais beaucoup 
plus formateurs; k savoir; I’apprentissage en groupes et la forma¬ 
tion des chefs; la fierte et I’estime personnelle; le plaisir de la 
reussite et le developpement plus moral du sens de la vie. Un 
grand nombre experiment une preference marquee pour les 
“nouveaux jeux” cooperatifs opposes aux sports plus tradition- 
nels de competitions en equipes ou individuelle. 

- Les problemes rencontres par les camps pour fournir des 
programmes d’activites physiques sont; le choix d’un personnel 
qualifie, particulaierement pour les activites autres que la plage; le 
cout des installations et de Itequipement; la motivation des cam¬ 
peurs amorphes et le besoin de nouvelles idees qui coutent peu, 
mais dont le potentiel de participation est eieve. Soyez aux aguets 
pour la serie de livrets “comment faire” qui paraitra bientot pour le 
personnel des camps et touchera chacun de ces problemes. 

- En relation avec ce qui a ete mentionne plus haut, les 
ressources considers les plus necessaires les plus valables 
pour les camps incluent: les ressources pour I’entrainement du 
personnel dans les secteurs du programme d’activites physi¬ 
ques; les idees nouvelles pour le programme d’activites physi¬ 
ques; les informations sur les autres organisations qui se 
specialised dans une ou plusieurs des activites offertes aux 
camps; I’information promotionelle k la fois pour le benefice du 
camping organise au Canada en general et specifiquement a pro- 
pos des programmes d’activites physiques offerts par les camps; 
les programmes adaptes aux besoins speciaux du campeur. 

Chacun de ces sujets seront traites a travers une variete de 
forums dans un avenir prochain, incluant les idees contenus dans 
le “cahier de P.A.R.C.”; des ateliers de conferences, des 
publications et une serie d’affiches modernes que vous pourrez 
employer a votre camp. 

- Le grand nombre de donnees, recueillis par cette enquete, 
sera ptecieux dans les quelques annees k venir pour guider le 
comite/consultatif et le personnel de P.A.R.C. dans le d6veloppe- 
ment des ressources qui aideront les camps a arrteliorer les 
divers aspects de leurs programmes d’activites physiques. 

- De nouveau, nos remerciements a tous, directeurs de 
camps, directeurs de programmes, instructeurs d’activites physi¬ 
ques qui ont pris le temps de compteter et de retourner le ques¬ 
tionnaire. Vous nous avez fourni une meilleure comprehension 
des programmes d’activites physiques qui sont suivis dans les 
camps canadiens actuellement. Vous nous avez fait connaitre ce 
que vous aimeriez ou n’aimeriez pas que P.A.R.C. fasse. Nous 
esp£rons que ce n’est que le commencement d’un partage 
d’id£es et de points-de-vue qui se continuera dans I’avenir puis- 
que nous travaillons ensemble k d£finir ce que signifie I’activite 
physique dans les camps canadiens en relation avec la 
philosophie du camping et comment nous pouvons travailler 
ensemble afin de faire d’une activity qui a de la valeur, quelque 
chose de meilleur encore. 


particulierement pour des activites de loisirs qui dureront toute la 


24 



BETWEEN 
THE COVERS 


“Listening to Nature” will help you experience more fully 
the serenity and mystery of the natural world. 

Joseph Cornell, author of the internationallly recognized 
classic. Sharing Nature With Children, has written a new na¬ 
ture awareness book - this time for adults, for those active 
nature lovers among us. Cornell's energy will pick people 
up out of their easy chairs and send them off into the back 
yard, if not farther afield, to experience the world in an en¬ 
tirely new way. 

For those who prefer a quieter experience of nature, they 
will find the book's lush photography and inspiring quotes 
from Thoreau. Burbank, and Muir among others, will touch 
their hearts and open their eyes anew to the wonders of na¬ 
ture around them. 

This full-colour guidebook is a unique combination of 
Cornell's brand new nature awareness activities, and the 
beautiful photography of Sierra Club Calendar veteran 
John Hendrickson. 

Listening to Nature, Dawn Publications. 95 p.. 1987 

Cost: $15.90 (members) 

$19.05 (non-members) 

Books listed in “Between the Covers" are available from 
the Canadian Camping Association Bookstore. 

Orders that are $20.00 or less must be prepaid with $2.00 
added for shipping. Contact the C.C.A. office by mail or 
phone: 

Canadian Camping Assoication 

1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 

Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 

(416) 781-4717 

Publications Committee - C.C.A. 



ENTRE 
LES LIGNES 


Listening to Nature, vous aidera a decouvrir plus 
pleinement la serenite et le mystere du monde du pleinair. 

Joseph Cornell, auteur de renommece internationale et 
auteur de Sharing Nature with Children vient de completer 
un autre livre qui nous aide a prendre conscience de la na¬ 
ture. Son livre s'adresse surtout aux adultes, aux mordus de 
la vie de plein air. Ce livre promet de vous faire abandonner 
votre fauteuil moileux et de vous propulser a l'exterieur, 
dans votre cour et peut-etre meme, directement dans la na-i 
ture et de vous faire vivre une experience de la nature, tout a 
fait differente. 

Pour ceux qui desirent une experience moins explosive, 
mais tout aussi pleine, il y a les livres remplis de belles 
photographies et de pensees de Thoreau, Burbank et de 
Muir. 

Ce guide complet et en couleur de Cornell est unique. II 
renferme une baterie d'activites qui nous aide a prendre 
conscience de la nature II renferme des photographies de 
John Hendrickson, veterant du “Sierra Club Calendar". 

Listening to Nature: Editions Dawn. 95p. 1987 

cout: 15.90$ (membres) 

19.05$ (non-membres) 

Les livres figurant dans “Entre les lignes" sont disponibles de 
la librairie de Y Association des Camps du Canada. 

Les commandes de $20.00 ou de moins doivent etre payes 
d'avance. accompagnes de $2.00 pour le poste. 

Mettez-vous en rapport avec le bureau de I'ACC par le poste 
ou par la telephone: 

Canadian Camping Association 
1806 Avenue Road. Suite 2 
Toronto, Ont. M5M 3Z1 
(416) 781-4717 



John Latimer of Kilcoo Camp considers some suggestions for the 
future of the Society of Camp Directors. 


Keith Singh of Mono Clijfs Outdoor Education Centre 

considers his sword in a game at the OCA fall director's weekend. 


25 










The camp environment is a real educator, whether you consider it on the physical, social or spiritual 
level. The successful writers will develop one aspect ol these student/teacher relationships in their 
submissions. 

ELIGIBLE WRITERS: Campers and staff from member camps of the CANADIAN CAMPING 

LENGTH: Not less than 800 words nor more than 1000 words. j; 

DEADLINE FOR SUBMISSION: May 31. 1988 fPr 

PRIZE: 1st Prize - $100.00 

Other prizes - at discretion of judging 

ADDRESS: BUBBY NASH AWARD 

c/o CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
R.R.#1 Huntsville. Ontario 
P0A 1K0 

PLEASE ENCOURANGE YOUR CAMPERS AND 
STAFF IN YOUR CAMP TO PARTICIPATE 


PRIX BUBBY NASH 

POUR L’ECRITURE CREATIVE 

EN L’HONNEUR D’ANNE NASHMAN DU 
CAMP WAHANOWIN 


La revue Canadian Camping et le Camp Wahanowin ont besoin I 
d’articles en ecriture creative dc campeurs or du personnel de fl 

camps canadiens. Ce concours annuel en ecriture creative inclus Anne /v ashman (Hubby) Congratulates Nancy Bramm (Cant 
$200.00 en priz et les textes choisis seront publies dans les editions Gay Venture), 1987 Award Winner 
a venir de la revue Canadian Camping. 

SUJET: LE CAMPEUR S’APPREND, LE MILIEU ENSEIGNE 

Lc milieu du camp d’ete a une relation de professeur/etudiant. tant par son aspect physique 
(naturel), social ou spirituel. Le concourant devra developper un des aspects, ce-haut mentionnee. 

OUVERT: a tous les campeurs et personnel de camps d’ACC 

LONGEUR: pas moins de 800 mots pas plus de 1000 mots 

DATE LIMITE: 31 mai 1988 

PRIX: ler prix-$100.00 

ENVOYEZ VOS ARTICLES A: CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

1806 Avenue Rd. Suite 2 
Toronto. Ontario 
M3M 3Z1 


S.V.P. encouragez vos campeurs et votre personnel a participer 


26 




UNDER 
OPEN SKIES 



ACIEL 

OUVERT 


FOUR COMPONENTS OF LIFE 

“REASON faces up to life, and sees things as they are. 
HOPE sees things as they ought to be and wishes on a star. 

FAITH dreams of miracles to come, that only God can 
do. 

LOVE goes to work with patient hands to make these 
dreams come true. 

SPECIAL 

by Arlena MacDonald and Teri Fernandez 

“Special” is a word used to describe something one-of-a- 
kind, like you or a sunset, or a person who spreads love with a 
smile or a kind gesture. 

“Special” describes people who act from the heart and who 
keep in mind the heart of others. 

“Special” is the word which best describes a hug. But when 
you hug me, please don’t try to straighten out the bands or 
hammer down the kinks or smooth the rough edges. 

Just put your arms around the whole of me. 

The weak and tough spots. 

The flaws and fears 
And make it as special as it can be. 

HELEN KELLER 

“Use your eyes,” wrote HELEN KELLER, “as if tomorrow 
you would be stricken blind; hear the music of voices, the 
song of a bird, as if you would be stricken deaf tomorrow. 
Touch each object as if tomorrow your tactile sense would 
fail. Smell the perfume of flowers, taste with relish each mor¬ 
sel, as if tomorrow you could never smell and taste again.” 


WE WOULD LOVE TO INCLUDE YOUR FAVOURITE 
INSPIRATIONAL POEM, QUOTATION, THOUGHT OR 
STORY IN OUR REGULAR COLUMN OF UNDER 
OPEN SKIES. WE HOPE THAT YOU WILL BE ABLE TO 
ENJOY AND USE MATERIAL PRINTED HERE IN 
YOUR STAFF TRAINING, IN THE SPIRITUAL SIDE OF 
YOUR CAMP PROGRAM AND IN THE AFFIRMATION 
OF YOUR OWN WORK. 


Dans cette rubrique, A ciel ouvert, nous aimerions 
inclure vos pe§ms, vos pensSes, vos r6f!6xions et vos his- 
toires de camps. Nous esperons que ces articles seront 
vous plaire et que vous pourrez vous en servir dans la for¬ 
mation et le ctevrloppement de votre personnel et qu’elle 
vous offrons des lectures que vous pourrez ajouter a votre 
aspect spirituel de votre programme, ainsi que pour votre 
propre 6panouissement. 


DESIDERATA (Revised) 

Go placidly amid the noise and excitement of summer 
camping, 

And remember that this is one sign of good camping. 

As far as possible without surrender 

Be on good terms with all your fellow leaders. 

Plan your programmes carefully and cheerfully; 

And listen to others, 

Even the youngest camper; 

He/she will give you many moments of joy. 

Avoid loud and aggressive gatherings of leaders. 

Except when you are part of one. 

If you compare your campers with others, 

Do not become vain or bitter; 

For success can only be judged by the smiles on their 
faces. 

Enjoy your achievements as well as your plans. 

Keep in mind the aims of camping, 

However hard to understand at times, 

It is a real possession in the changing fortunes of time. 
Exercise caution with the camp funds; 

For parents work hard for this fee. 

But let this not blind you to what camping is all about... 
Be yourself. 

Especially, have fun. 

Neither “bum out” too soon; 

For in the face of all aridity and disenchantment 
Those campers are depending on you. 

Take kindly the counsel of your director, 

He will help you all that he can. 

Nurture strength of spirit in case of a failure, 

But do not blame yourself... you have done your best. 
And what you think of as “failure” may be “super fun” to your 
campers. 

Beyond a wholesome discipline, 

Be gentle with yourself. 

You are the most important person in Camping; 

We need more leaders like yourself 
To help the youth of this world. 

And whether or not it is clear to you. 

You are molding the future of this country. 

Therefore, be at peace with God, 

Whatever you conceive Him to be. 

And whatever your labours and aspirations 
In the noisy confusion of summer camping. 

Keep peace with yourself. 

With all its hard work and sometimes frustration, 

It is a wonderful experience. 

Be cheerful... strive for good Camping... 

(from the Sherbrooke Lake Camp Leaders' Handbook) 
(found in United Church Camping - Spring 1985) 


27 








WHAT’S IN sssk UN NOM .. . 

A NAME? WMM^ SON HISTOIRE 


CAMP HE HO HA (he ho ha) 

The name stands for: HEaltli HOpe HAppiness 

In 1959 Walter Bates, Bob Sewell and Dr. Ken Gordon, mem¬ 
bers of the South Edmonton Kiwanis Club, approached the then 
Minister of Health about the need for camping facilities for the 
handicapped. It was approved in principle and before long a site 
on a peninsula on Lake Isle was drawn up. 

The Alberta Camp Council was formed with representation 
from five organizations involved in work with the handicapped. 
These were the South Edmonton Kiwanis Club; Canadian 


PHILOSOPHY 

Everyone has the right to recreation (if desired) regardless ol 
their disability and therefore, should be encouraged to reach 
his/her potential. Camp He Ho Ha provides an outdoor rec¬ 
reational experience for those who require or desire special 
facilities. 

The Camp's facility and program is set up to serve as many 
individual needs as possible. Hopefully it will enhance 
everyone's spirit of adventure, providing an incentive 
throughout the summer. 



Indoor Pool - Camp He Ho Ha 


Diabetic Association; The Edmonton Cerebral Palsy Associa¬ 
tion and the Associated Canadian Travellers (Edmonton Club) 
who administer the Northern Alberta Crippled Children's 
Fu nd. 

The above organization contributed funds in varying 
amounts to get the project started and with the donation of 
buildings from Imperial Oil Limited, plus the construction of a 
medical centre by Mr. & Mrs. Muttart, the Camp was in opera¬ 
tion in 1960. 

In 1963, the Associated Canadian Travellers built a heated 
swimming pool, and it was soon evident that the temporary 
facilities had to be replaced. Construction of large wood frame 
cabins commenced in 1966. with the Associated Canadian 
Travellers underwriting the costs of construction. 

I n 1969. the A.C.T. drew up an operating lease with the Alberta 
Rehabilitation Council for the Disabled (ARCD). which had. 
several years earlier, assumed ownership of the facilities from 
the original Alberta Camp Council. The reasoning behind this 
was that a similar camp had to be built in the southern halfof the 
province and the Easter Seal Ability Council, (formerly the 
ARCD). was the logical provincial body for assuming province 
wide responsibility through their Easter Seal franchise. 

However, by 1969 it was evident that Easter Seal Funds were 
inadequate to operate and maintain both camps and the A.C.I. 
assumed operational responsibility of Camp He Ho Ha such 
that the Northern Alberta Crippled Children's Fund would 
guarantee the deficit incurred by the camp. 

By 1980. Camp He Ho Ha was offering6 programs for various 
age and disability groups. The 8()'s proved to be a decade of 
change. Within 4 years the camp jumped from serving 500 dis¬ 
abled individuals to approximately 1.000 in a year by increasing 
both the number of camps offered and the capacity of each 
camp. Opportunities for year round use on an independent 
basis became a reality as a result of a massive rebuilding 
ca mpaign. 


Arts & Crafts and Administration Centre 

Camp He Ho Ha 


OVERALL PRINCIPLES 


In your efforts to incorporate these needs, don't losesightofan 
over-riding principle that learning should be fun. It is your res¬ 
ponsibility to use leadership techniques that will incorporate 
fun as well as motivate campers to participate. 

In all activities staff should place “Campers First" which does 
not mean that you do things for them but rather that their needs 
are put before your own. We all like to be needed and help others 
but “Campers First" means that we look at the camper's needs 
first — can they do it on their own. If the answer is yes. then let 
them — your impatience, your need to win, your need to help is 
secondary. Look at the ability NOT the disability and do all you 
can to create an opportunity for independence and skill 
development always remembering to treat everyone as an 


Sumvapta Lodge - Camp He Ho Ha 


28 











WHAT’S ‘IN’ OUTDOORS 


ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAMS 


PROGRAMMES SUR LE MILIEU 


CERAMIC WHISTLE 

Fanciful creatures with voices. 

Materials: 

Small package of self-hardening Mexican pottery clay 
Wax paper 

Rolling pin, dowel or tube for rolling clay 
Knife 

Medium size ball (tennis or golf) 

Pencil 

To Make 

1. Take a ball of clay about 2” in diameter, and place on a 
piece of wax paper. Roll with the rolling pin to about 1/4” 
thickness. 

2. Cover the golf or tennis ball with wax paper. We used clear 
plastic tape to hold the waxpaper in place. 

3. Place the ball on the clay. Wrap the clay around the ball 
completely. Work with the clay until it is smooth and 
round. 

4. Place the clay-covered ball in the sun or near a heater until 
partially dry. 

5. With the knife, cut the clay — not the ball — in half (A). 
Remove the plastic-wrapped ball from the center. 

6. Place the two clay halves back together, making a sphere 
(B). Take more clay and carefully fill the knife edge. Using 
water to thin the clay makes it more workable. 

7. Take another piece of clay — about a T’ball — and make a 
round, long shape, 2” long and 1/2” in diameter (C). This is 
for the mouthpiece. 

8. With a knife, make a flat hole through the center, down the 
length of the clay mouthpiece (D). This is to blow through. 

9. Cut a hole in the clay ball, about 1 /2” in diameter. With the 
knife, bevel the edge around this hole (E). 

10. Attach mouthpiece to the edge of this hole, by adding a 
little clay and water. Smooth edges, making sure not to 
squeeze the mouthpiece so that the air won’t flow through it. 
The air should go through the mouthpiece and hit the 1/2” air 
hole in the bottom of the ball —just passing over it, like blow¬ 
ing across the top of the jug (F). Adjust mouthpiece for proper 
angle to make sound. 

11. Make ahole in the side of the ball about 1/4” in diameter 
(G). At this point, you may add a head, a tail or, with the pen¬ 
cil, make race designs in the clay while it is still workable. 
When you have achieved your fanciful design, place the 
whistle in the sun or near a heater to dry. 


SPRING WILLOW WHISTLE 


SPRING WILLOW WHISTLE 

This whistle is most easily made in the spring when the run¬ 
ning sap makes the willow bark slip off easily. It is a favourite 
old-fashioned toy. 

Materials: 

4” to 6” piece of willow, about 5/8” in diameter 
Pocket knife 

To Make 

1. Cut the piece of willow about 4” long, making sure it is 
straight. 

2. Make a small notch about 1/4” deep 1/2” from one end. 
Starting about 1” from end, according to size of branch, cut 
branch on a slant to first cut. Taper blowing end (A). 

3. Using handle of knife, tap center of branch gently until the 
bark slips off in an unbroken tube (B). Dipping in water 
may help. 

4. On the inner piece of wood, cut a long notch to within 1/2” 
of the straight end. Cut a thin strip off the blowing end for an 
air passage (C). 

5. Slide bark back and line up the notches. 

6. Test by blowing; if the tone is poor, make the air strip 
wider. 


CERAMIC WHISTLE 







29 








SHEPHERD’S PIPE (Recorder Type) 

The gentle sound of this instrument entertained the shep¬ 
herd and kept the sheep from wandering too far around the 
mountain. It is important to remember that the tone of the 
instrument comes from directing a strong stream of air 
against a sharp surface. Study the illustrations carefully and 
use a sharp knife on the airhole! 

Materials 

Bamboo, 12” long and with at least a 5/8” drill and 3/16” bit 
inside diameter, or stiff plastic tube 
Small round file or garden hose 
Sharp knife 

Cork or wood plug to fit inside the tube 

Pencil 

Coping saw 

To Make 

1. If you are using bamboo, clean and smooth the inside of 
the stalk. 

2. Measure 1” from blowing end and cut an air hole 1/2” 
square. Note the sharp, slanting cut on one side (A). 

3. Measure the cork or wood plug and cut it, if necessary to 
make sure it ends just at the air hole in the bamboo. Cut a 
slanting air passage 3/16” to 1/8” along the top edge of the 
plug (B). You may enlarge it later, but start small. 

4. Insert plug in the end of the bamboo. Make sure that the 
air will blow against the sharp edge of the airhole (C). 

5. Make the air passage a little larger if the sound is weak. 
Blow gently and keep trying -this is the hardest part. 

6. Tune pipe to lowest note by sawing off the end 1/8” at a 
time-measurements should give a C scale going up from 
middle C. 

7. To make finger holes, draw a straight line from middle 
of air hole to the far end of the pipe (D). 

8. Mark the spot for each finger hole along this line, begin¬ 
ning 2” up from the end of the pipe (E). Notice that hole bis 
played on a hole underneath the top hole, which is c, an oc¬ 
tave higher than the original note. 

9. Drill a 3/16” hole at hole c. Blow to test pitch. Raise the 
pitch by enlarging the hole slightly on the mouthpiece side. 
Lower the pitch by enlarging toward the open end. 

10. Tune each note before drilling the next one. Work 
carefully, but if you make a mistake, put some cloth tape 
across part of the hole. 

To Play 

Hold pipe with left thumb on hole b and three fingers above 
the pipe. The right hand has three fingers poised over the re¬ 
maining holes. Blow gently. Place index finger of left hand 
on hole c, thus covering two holes. Then cover remaining 
holes consecutively, until all holes are closed. You will then 
have played a scale. 

Hint 

You may wish to make the mouthpiece more comfortable 
by tapering it; make your cut starting 1/2” from the end (see 
diagram). 






















Look what we are looking for: 


A New Look for 

CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 


THESE PICTURES FROM CAMP HE HO HA ARE GREAT TO HAVE AND WERE GREAT TO INCLUDE IN 
THIS ISSUE. YOUR PHOTOS ARE GREAT, TOO. IF YOU CAN GET THEM TO US, THEN WE MAY BE 
ABLE TO MAKE YOU FAMOUS! 





SEND PICTURES OF ANY ASPECT OF YOUR 
CAMP INCLUDING: 

SITE/FACILITIES 
CONFERENCES/WORKSHOPS 
MOOD/NATURE 
ACTIVITIES/PROGRAM 
CAMPERS/STAFF 
WINTER SCENES OF YOUR SITE 

WE CAN USE B/W PRINTS, GOOD CONTRAST 
COLOR PRINTS. SLIDES OR NEGATIVES. SEND 
MATERIAL TO CCM RR#1 HUNTSVILLE, ONTAR¬ 


IO POA 1K0 











POSTMASTER / MAIL CARRIER 

If undelivered after five days, please return copies to the editorial offices: 
CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
Canadian Camping Association 
1806 Avenue Rd.. Suite 2 
Toronto. Ontario M5M 3Z1 


MAITRE DE POSTES / FACTEUR 

Si non-livr6 aprSs 5 jours S.V.P. retoumez les copies aux bureaux des 6ditoriaux: 
CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
Canadian Camping Association 
1806 Avenue Rd.. Suite 2, 

Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 


British Columbia Camping Association 

1200 Hornby St. 

Vancouver, B.C. V6Z 2E2 
Phone: (604) 687-3333 


Alberta Camping Association 

c/o Y.M.C.A., 332 6th Ave. S.W., 

Calgary, Alberta T2P 0R5 
Phone: (403) 269-6156 

Saskatchewan Camping Association 

c/o Saskatoon Y.M.C.A. 

25-22 St. East 

Saskatoon, Sask. S7K 0C7 

Phone: (306) 652-7515 ext. SCA 


Manitoba Camping Association 

1495 St. Matthews Ave. 

Winnipeg, Manitoba 

Phone *"(204) 985-4166 

Ontario Camping Association 

1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
Phone: (416) 781-0525 

Association des Camps du Quebec 

4545 Pierre de Coubertin 
Montreal, Quebec H1V3R2 
HIV 3R2 

Phone: (514) 252-3113 


New Brunswick Camping Association 

P.O. Box 263 

Moncton, New Brunswick El C 8K9 
Phone: (506) 853-3519 

Camping Association of Nova Scotia 

Box 3243 S. 

Halifax, Nova Scotia B3J 3H5 
Phone: (902) 424-4329 

Newfoundland and Labrador 
Camping Association 

Box 261 

Comerbrook, Nfld. A2H 6C9 



SUBSCRIPTION INFORMATION 

Canadian Camping Magazine is the official publication of the Canadian Camping Association. 
Editorial offices of the Magazine are located at R.R. # 1, Huntsville, Ontario, POA 1K0. 

Membership in the C.C-A^ as a result of membership in a provincial camping association, 
includes a subscription to the Magazine. Non member subscription is SlO.OO/ycar. Single issue 
price is $3.00. Make cheques payable to the Canadian Camping Association. Send subscriptions, 
submissions, or address changes to the editorial staff. 

Canadian Camping Magazine is published four times yearly. Deadlines for submissions are 
October 1, December 1, February 15 and May I. Material in Canadian Camping Magazine may 
not be reproduced in any form without the expressed written permission of the editor. Copyright 
1986 Canadian Camping Association. 

LES INFORMATIONS DE LA SOUSCRIPTION 

Canadian Camping Magazine est la publication officlelle de I*Association des Camps 
dU(Canada. Les bureaux de la redaction se trouvent A R.R. # 1. Huntsville. Ontario POA 

L adhesion d1'AC.C., resultant de I'adttesion a une association provinciate, indue une souscrip- 
tion a la revue. La souscription pour ceux qui ne sont pas les membres coGte $10.00 par an. La liv- 
raison coOte $3.00. Faites les cheques a I’ordre de “Canadian Camping Association". Envoyez les 
souscriptions. les sou missions ou les changements d’adresse aux bureaux de la redaction. 

Canadian Camping Magazine est publte quatre fois par an. Les dates limites pour les 
soumissions sont te 1 er October, le 1 er decembre, le 1 5 ^ f6vrier et |e , er ^ Les articles dans 
Canadian Camping Magazine" ne peuvent 6tre reproduits sans autorisation de Itediteur 
Copyright 1986 Canadian Camping Association. 


If you would like to receive a complete 
English translation of any article in 
Canadian Camping Magazine, send a 
stamped self addressed envelope with 
your request to Canadian Camping 
Magazine, R.R. #1, Huntsville. Ontario 
POA 1K0. 


Si vous voulez recevoir une traduction 
comptete en frangais d’un article dans 
Canadian Camping Magazine, envoyez 
une enveloppe timbr6e pour la rGponse 
avec votre demande &: Canadian Camp¬ 
ing Magazine. R.R. # 1. Huntsville. Ontario 
POA 1K0. 


v| ; M 

v \'1 ■ 



Cover 

One of the many summer camp cabins across the coun¬ 
try. wrapped in winter. 

La page couverture 

Un de nos nombreux camps d’6te, & travers le pays, 
recouvert de neige. 


32 
















