
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


I feel compelled to echo my sentiments in 
unison with those who are speaking out on the 
issue of Cults, and Cults and Camps in parti¬ 
cular. 

If our law-makers are doing their jobs, then 
those of us who represent legitimate Judeo- 
Christian institutions have nothing to fear in 
respect to legislation which would, in effect, 
examine how we express our faith, maintain our 
faith and develop our faith. 

Without using the comparative argument 
“One man’s Cult is another’s Religion”, I would 
argue that we are defending the very foundation 
of our democratic process. No one should have 
the right to tamper with or extinguish the rights 
or freedoms built into that process: the right of 
freedom of choice, freedom of thought and the 
freedom of mobility. None of these is a one-shot 
deal! No matter what organization or function 
one attends or joins, these freedoms must exist 
and be exercised throughout. 

Those who support, in any way, those organ¬ 
izations who use deception, coercion and 
psychological techniques of mind extension 
which alter, inhibit, restrict or subjugate the 


rights and freedoms of individuals, are in effect 
unjust and unworthy of support by those who 
provide a system of democracy. 

As the issue of Cults and Camping has been 
raised, this places an even greater burden on 
OCA & CCA to be vigilant and cautious in pro¬ 
viding accreditation to organizations which may 
operate under the disguise of Religious institu¬ 
tions. 

W.E. White 
Tweed, Ontario 

I have just read the Autumn 1983 issue of 
Canadian Camping . I liked the way you deal with 
controversial issues in a straight-forward way. 
You have a much livelier section related to 
"letters to the editor” and “editorial” than the 
Camping Magazine in the U.S.A. I would have 
liked to see a rebuttal by a so-called “cult” 
leader or organization. There is a danger of 
people labelling an organization "a cult" if they 
disagree with their goals. In the article, "The Cult 
Crisis!” the list of cult techniques of psychologi¬ 
cal coercion must be considered carefully. I can 
think of instances in which "peer group pres¬ 


sure”, “love bombing”, "games”, "rejection of old 
values", "fear”, and “chanting and singing”, 
would have a positive effect on campers and 
staff alike. No rational human being can defend 
the death of a camper by beating, but some of 
the condemned techniques are open to question 
and interpretation. 

On another topic, I liked Walter Tose’s piece 
on “Summer Camp: An Opportunity for Personal 
Growth”. I have long believed in this goal for 
camps and want to make more of a contribution 
in this area. I am currently writing a follow-up 
book to Humanizing Environmental Education, 
co-authored with Joel Goodman. I want the 
book to provide more specific assistance to out¬ 
door leaders for developing human relations 
skills. If your readers know of resources, includ¬ 
ing camps which focus on this goal, I would like 
to correspond with them. I would like to include 
several case studies of programs that aim for 
personal and group growth in camp. 

Continue the excellent work in producing 
Canadian Camping. 

Clifford E. Knapp 
Oregon, Illinois 


CONTENTS _ 

Spring 1984 _ 

5 The Camping Advisor 

by Jay Haddad 

6 President’s Perspective 

by Jocelyn Palm 

8 Camping is Fun! And it is 
For Everyone! 
by Sylvia Haynes 


_ Vol. 36, No. 1 

10 Camp, Growth and the Power of 
the Person 
by Bruce Elkin 

12 Group Dynamics Exercise 
by John Latimer 

14 Real Programs For Real People 
by Rick Ireland 


Cover Photo: Jay Haddad 


Layout Assistant Marc C6t6 


Editorial Policy 

Jay Haddad, Editor 

The ideas expressed in the Editorial are those of 
the Editorial Committee and not necessarily 
those of the Canadian Camping Association/ 
Association des Camps du Canada. The views 
are expressed to provide stimulation and com¬ 
ment. We invite you to respond in “Letters to the 
Editor" to Canadian Camping, 1806 Avenue Rd., 
Suite 2, Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1. 


Produced with the assistance Condition physique Canada a prete 
of Fitness Canada son concours a cette production 


i+ 


Government of Canada 
Fitness and Amateur Sport 


Gouvernement du Canada 
Condition physique et Sport amateur 


Canadian Camping is an official publication of the Canadian Camping Association/Association des 
Camps du Canada. Canadian Camping (ISSN 008-3119) is published quarterly. CCA/ACC member¬ 
ship includes a subscription; non-member subscriptions in Canada $6.00 a year or $15.00-3 years. 
Send address changes to CCA/ACC, 1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1. 
Material in Canadian Camping may not be reproduced in any form, without written permission of the 
editor. Copyright 1984 Canadian Camping Association/Association des Camps du Canada. 


2 





EDITORIAL 

segregation... It Still Exists!!! 

Have you seen those brilliant ads on Canadian billboards recently? The The staff were all very cautious and wary at first (ignorant and somewhat 
picture shows a man with a suitcase leaving prison having served his time; fearful), afraid to stare or ask questions and not quite knowing just what to 
the caption says: “Freedom. Now the punishment begins!” The ad then expect from those kids with disabilities who were “different” Thank God for 
explains how difficult we make it for those who have been jailed to re-enter the honesty, openness, curiosity and spontaneity of 10 and 12 year-olds - 
the mainstream of life. Our fears, prejudices and anxiety over the term they’re not too inured yet to stigmatize those who are different too 
“convict” prevent us from rational interaction and prevents the previously- profoundly... so there’s hope! No treading gingerly with anxious trepidations 
jailed man or woman from getting a fair shake in society. over proper decorum when interacting with disabled campers, these 

How about those excellent ads by the Canadian Mental Health Associa- “normal” campers shattered the stereotypes and fears which pervade most 
tion showing a young man sitting on a park bench talking about his father of our interactions with those who have a disability. The able-bodied kids 
who had been in the hospital and is all better now - except, people treat him asked questions: what does it feel like being in a wheelchair? Do people at 
differently; they act strangely, as if he’s still sick but he isn’t! And then the ads school make fun of you? Can you swim? Does it bother you when people 
talk about the “fear, ignorance and myths” that are still perpetrated on those stare? These “normal” campers loosened and freed the shackles of fear, 
who have emotional or mental disabilities. ignorance and embarrassment which exist because of usually segregated 


TIME magazine, August 7, 1972: the cover story, do you remember? 
George McGovern’s vice-presidential running-mate was Senator Thomas 
Eagleton. People went hysterical when it was publicized that he had been in 
a mental hospital. Senator Eagleton: “I am an intense and hard-fighting 
person. I sometimes push myself too far... I was hospitalized in St. Louis in 
1966 on my own volition for about four weeks.” The public didn’t buy it; 
Eagleton resigned; Richard Nixon romped to victory; no one wanted a 
“crazy" person in the White House; little did they know... 

How about this news item from the Toronto Star: “When psychologist 
John Tringo from the University of Kentucky asked 455 people to rate 21 
conditions in order of their social acceptability, he found the most 
acceptable were diseases such as ulcers, arthritis, asthma, diabetes and 
heart disease ... while old age was among the least acceptable, ranking 
below cancer. At the bottom of the list was MENTAL ILLNESS, which the 
majority found LESS acceptable than even being an ex-convict. The 
Canadian Mental Health Association ... says the study is an indication of 
how much needs to be done to educate the public about mental illness so 
that those with such illnesses are not treated as social outcasts.” What an 
understatement! 

The Canadian Mental Health Association accurately points at three 
words: FEAR, IGNORANCE and MYTHS. We have myths built up in our 
minds due to a profound lack of exposure and experience with anyone who 
is different. Part of the reason for this problematic situation is the manner in 
which society’s (and some camp’s) social fabric is set up. We tend to 
segregate those who are different the blind stick together, as do the deaf, 
those with diabetes, physical disabilities, cystic fibrosis, cerebral palsy or 
mental retardation. Segregation is not without a certain appeal - specific 
needs are more easily met, specialists with particular expertise can work 
with a homogeneous group and families often find an easier networking or 
support system with others in the same situation. But the myths throughout 
society become enlarged, distorted and falsified. And our social ignorance 
grows; and the more ignorant we are, the more we will fear exposure to 
those who are “different”. It’s so easy to segregate - keeping children 
cocooned and Insulated! The able-bodied campers play at their camp and 
the disabled campers play at their camp. 

Last summer, an experiment was initiated in a large, private Ontario camp 
which sees 600 able-bodied campers pass through its gates each summer. 
Very simply, 6 physically-disabled adolescents co-existed with their own 
little camp and camp programme within the framework of the larger camp. A 
few ramps were built leading into the dining hall and dormitory; otherwise, 
there was little disruption and the idea was to give the disabled campers a 
unique experience - exposure to a “normal” camp’s routine, programme 
and spirit. It didn’t quite work out that way! The reverse was true - 600 
able-bodied campers were given a phenomenal experience: exposure into 
the lives, personalities and feelings of 6 campers with physical disabilities! 


situations; they inadvertantly freed themselves from growing with ignorance 
and prejudice because of this beautiful experiment of integration. In years to 
come, when they hear nasty remarks or rude jokes coming from the mouths 
of those cocooned from interaction where ignorance flourishes, these kids 
will speak up, defend, set the record straight and educate. 

Every person is a unique human being with very special needs. Is not 
every child a "gifted” child? Is not every child a “special” child? Is not every 
adult “disabled” in some way? Philosopher Wayne Nielsen identified the 
central problem of the human condition as “blind ignorance among races, 
sexes, nations, religions and ideologies. Ignorance Is not knowing the 
proper methods of inquiry. If there is any hope for the nation and the world, it 
lies with those who are more self-aware and other-aware.” The only way to 
become “other-aware” is to experience other people and acquire a first¬ 
hand sense of respect for other people’s differences; to this end, integration 
is necessary. There is no choice. 

We are a culture and a nation enslaved by language - what pictures come 
to your mind when you hear the words: ex-convict, mentally retarded, 
hair-lip, Chinese, rapist, mongloid. Black, policeman, Catholic, homosexual, 
Jew, Pakistani? Where do those “images” come from and how do we allow 
those derogatory feelings to persist? FEAR: the more we are sheltered from 
integrated experiences, the more we will fear the unknown - and that 
includes ANYONE who is different! We then create false images (stereo¬ 
types) in our heads and soon we enlarge the stereotype until it encom passes 
everything about a person, so when you hear the term “mentally retarded” 
you think “say no more, I know all about them”... “if you’ve seen one, you’ve 
seen them all”... “all cops are alike”... “they all smell”... “those kindsof kids 
give me the creeps"... “all homosexuals are sick”... “once a convict, always 
a convict”. And on it goes until people become their stigma: we no longer 
talk about a person who has a disability; we call the person a “disabled”! We 
no longer talk about a person who has been convicted; we call the person a 
“convict”! Our adjectives are no longer good descriptions, but worse - 
they’ve become nouns! We create walls and turn away. 

Whatever the cost of integration, we must be willing to pay for it - 
physically and psychologically. The cost of segregation has already had too 
profound a consequence on generations of people growing up with 
“segregated” mentalities. William James once said: “The greatest discovery 
of my generation is that human beings can alter their lives by altering their 
attitudes of mind.” As you think, so you will be. It is true - tragically true that 
so many people have attitudes of mind that are narrow-minded, where 
people are disparaged because of physical disabilities or colour of skin. We 
in camping must strive to alter people’s attitudes - by exposure to others 
and by learning to show sensitivity and respect to those who are “different”. 
Integrated camping is our only course; segregation can no longer be 
justified... or accepted! 


3 



EDITORIAL 

La segregation... un mal qui persistem 


Avez-vous observe dernferement ces brillantes affiches des panneaux- 
r6clame? On y voit un homme, valise en main, aux portes de la prison. Son 
terme estfini. On y lit: “Libre. Maintenantcommenge lechatiment". Puis, on 
explique comment nous empachons les anciens bagnards de se rahabiliter. 
La crainte, Pangoisse, les prajugas que fait nattre le mot “forgat" nous 
poussent a priver I’ancien detenu de Pestime a laquelle il est en droit de 
s’attendre en tant qu’individu. Que dire de ces superbes annonces 
(’Association canadienne pour la santa mentale ou Ton presente un jeune 
homme assis sur un banc de pare, en train de converser avec son pare 
ratabli d’un sajour a I’asile. Tout va bien, sauf... que les gens le traite 
diffaremment. (Is agissent comme s'il ataittoujours dingue et pourtant... il 
est normal! Puis I’annonce parle de I’ignorance des gens, de la crainte et 
des mythes qui se perpatuent au sujet des handicapas mentaux et des 
amotifs. 

Vous rappelez-vous I'article-couverture du Time, adition du 7 aout 1972? 
Le candidat de George McGoverne a la vice-prasidence atait le Sanateur 
Thomas Eagleton. Les gens sont devenus hystariques a la ravaiation qu’il 
avait ate interna. Voici ses paroles: “Je suis de ceux qui luttent dur. Parfois, 
j’abuse de mes forces. En 1966 j’ai ata interna pendant quatre semaines a 
St-Louis de mon propre gra. Le public a mal pris la chose. Eagleton a 
damissionna. Richard Nixon tenait la palme de la victoire. Personne ne 
voulait d'un fou a la Maison Blanche. Comme ils savaient peu! 

Que penser aussi de cet article du Toronto Star. Quand le psychologue 
John Triggo de I’universita de Kentucky a demanda a 455 personnes 
d’anumarer 21 maladies suivant I’ordre qu’ils estimaient le plus acceptable, 
il a decouvert que les affections les mieux acceptaes ataient les ulcares, 
Parthrite, Pasthme, le diabate et les maladies du coeur. La vieillesse comptait 
parmi les moins toiaraes apr§s le cancer. Au bas de la liste figuraient les 
MALADIES MENTALES, plus mal vues de la majorita que le bagne! L’Asso- 
ciation candienne pour la santa mentale voit en cette atude Purgence 
d’aduquer le public au sujet de la santa mentale afin que les victimes 
cessent d’atre traitaes tels des dachets de la sociata. C’est bien le moins 
qu’on puisse dire! 

L’Association met Paccent sur trois mots: peur, ignorance et mythe. Nous 
nourrissons le culte du mythe par manque profond de contacts avec ceux 
qui sont diffarents. Cette situation probiamatique est en majeure partie 
attribuable au tissus social que nous fabriquons (dans certains camps 
mame). Nous avons tendance a discriminer ceux qui diffarent de nous. Les 
aveugles se tiennent ensemble; il en est de mame des sourds, des 
diabatiques, des handicapas physiques et mentaux, des victimes de la 
fibrose kystique et de la paralysie carabrale. La sagragation n’est pas sans 
offrir quelques compensations. Les besoins pracis sont combias plus 
aisament, Les spacialistes d’une discipline particuliare peuvent traiter un 
groupe plus homogane et les families affligaes se rejoignent plus facile- 
ment Pendant ce temps, les mythes grandissent, la raalita se deforme. 
Notre ignorance s’accroit. Plus nous sommes ignares, plus nous craignons 
de cotoyer ceux qui diffarent de nous. II est tenement simple de faire de la 
sagragation. II suffit d’enfermer nos enfants dans un cocon et de les isoler. 
Les campeurs en parfaite santa jouent ensemble, les handicapas de mame. 

L'ata dernier, une exparience a ata tentae dans un camp priva de I’Ontario 
ou viennent six cents enfants chaque ata. Le plus simple du monde, on a 
amanaga a I’intarieur de ce grand camp, un mini-camp pour six handicapas 
qui avaient leur propre programme. On construisit quelques rampes qui 
conduisaientau rafectoireetau dortoir. Outre cela, il n’y avait rien d’atrange 
et ridee atait de procurer aux invalides une exparience unique: vivre la vie 
et le programme d’un camp normal, capter I’esprit qui y ragne. Or, le 
contraire s’est produit Six cents enfants, avantagas physiquement, ont 
vacu une exparience extraordinaire. Ils se sont frottas a la vie, a la person- 
nalita, aux sentiments de six handicapas. Le personnel atait prudent, voire 


inquiet au dabut (ignorant et craintif d’une certaine manure) et n'osait pas 
davisager ou poser de questions, ne sachant pas a quoi s’attendre de ces 
enfants si “diffarents" des autres. Que Dieu banisse la franchise, la candeur, 
la curiosita et la spontanaita des dix, douze ans. Ils ne sont pas encore trop 
entrainas a stigmatiser ceux qui sont diffarents ... il y a done de I’espoir! 
Sans crainte de bousculer les biensaances, ces campeurs “normaux" ont 
abrania les clichas et les craintes qui dictent notre comportementa i’agard 
des invalides. Les enfants “normaux" ont posa des questions. Qu’est-ce 
qu’on ressent a vivre dans une chaise roulante? Les enfants a I’acole se 
moquent-ils? Pouvez-vous nager? Est-ce que ga vous g§nent quand on 
vous davisage? Ces enfants “normaux" ont rompu les chaines auxquelles 
nous rivent la peur, I’ignorance et I’embarras et nous poussent a la sagraga¬ 
tion. Ils ont achappa sans le savoirau sort degrandir dans I’ignoranceetles 
prajugas grace a une merveilleuse exparience d’intagration. Dans les 
annaes a venir, lorsqu’ils entendrontdes remarques dasobligeantes ou des 
farces grossieres de la part de ceux qui sont enfermas dans leur tour 
d’ivoire et cultivent I’ignorance ils laveront la voix, tireront les choses au 
clair, bref, ils se feront dafenseurs des opprimas. 

Chaque personne est unique en son genre et aprouve des besoins 
pracis. Chaque enfant n’est-il pas talentueux? Chaque adulte n’est-il pas 
handicapa d’une certaine mantere? Le philosophe Wayne Nelson a cerna le 
probiame majeur de la condition humaine. C’est I’ignorance aveugle que 
cultivent les races, les nations, les religions, les idaologies vis-a-vis des 
autres. L'ignorance, c’est le dafaut de ne pas conna?tre les bonnes 
mathodes d’enqu§ter. S’il y a un espoir que changent la nation et le monde, il 
raside dans ceux qui sont conscients de ce qu’ils sont et de ce que sont 
ceux qui les entourent. Le meilleur moyen de se sensibiliser, c’est d’atablir le 
contact avec ceux qui diffarent de nous et d’apprendre a respecter leurs 
diffarences. II n’y a pas d'autre solution. 

Nous sommes une culture et un peuple pris au piage d’un systame 
depression. Quelles images avoque-t-on a entrendre “ancien bagnard”, 
"retarda mental”, “bee de Havre”, “Chinois”, “violeur", “mongol”, “noir", 
“policier”, “catholique", “homosexuel", “Juif’, “Pakistanais"? D’ou amergent 
nos clichas et comment continuons-nous a nourrir des sentiments 
darogatoires? NOUS AVONS PEUR. Plus nousfuyons les situations d’inta¬ 
gration, plus nous craignons I’inconnu, ce qui inclus tout atre diffarent. De 
la, naissent les fausses perceptions, les clichas qui samptifienta un point tel 
que nous en arrivons a coller des atiquettes sur le front des “autres". 
Lorsque Ton entend le terme “arriara mental", on pense : “N’en dites pas 
plus, je connais tout a leur sujet"... “vous en voyez un, vous les avez tous 
vus”... “tous les flics sont les mames"... "ils puent"... "rien qu’a voir un tel 
enfant pa me donne la chair de poule"... “tous les homosexuels sont des 
malades" ... “qui a tua, tuera”... et la liste continue, ce qui fait que nous y 
passons tous. Nous ne parlons plus d’une personne invalide, nous disons 
I’invalide. II n’est plus question de la personne qui a ata condamnae, mais 
bien du condamna. Les adjectifs ne qualifient plus, il dasignent Nous 
dressons des murs! 

Peu importe le cout de Pintagration, nous devons atre prat a la payer 
physiquement et psychologiquement. Le prixde la sagragation a daj& laissa 
des empreintes trop profondes dans les sillons des ganarations qui 
poussent dans cet esprit. William James a dit un jour: “La plus grande 
dacouverte de mon temps fut celle de constater que les atres humains 
peuvent changer leur vie en modifiant leur fagon de penser". Vous ates ce 
que vous pensez atre. C’est malheureusement vrai que trop de gens font de 
I esprit de clocher et danigrent les handicapas physiques ou les gens de 
couleur. Nous devons oeuvrer a modifier I’attitude des gens. Nous devons 
communiquer avec les autres et apprendre a faire preuve de daiicatesse et 
de respect a I’egard de ceux qui sont diffarents de nous. A bas la 
sagragation... vive Pintagration dans nos camps! C’est notre seul recours. 



THE CAMPING ADVISOR 



Could you please explain composting? 

M.H., Toronto, Ontario 

We have asked Sam Hambly of Camp Allsaw to 
explain this phenomenon and its use: 

The composting process provides an effective 
introduction to the conservation of soil and 
water. Both of these resources are threatened. 
Both are essential for survival. 

The Allsaw Composter provides an attractive 
habitat for the multiplicity of life that thrives in 
compost. Ubiquitous organic garbage provides 
food and moisture for this life. The heat gener¬ 
ated by decomposition is retained by styrofoam 
insulation. This provides an attractive environ¬ 
ment for the propagation of life. The unit works 
efficiently throughout all seasons - around the 
calendar. 

Composting units may be constructed in a 
variety of sizes, small ones for indoor demon¬ 
stration, larger ones for practical outdoor garden 
use. 

CONSTRUCTION OF THE ALLSAW 
COMPOSTER: 

Stain the unit for appearance and preserva¬ 
tion of the wood. 

Set up the prefabricated unit outdoors. Add a 
mixture of 2 to 3 bushels of horse manure and 
household organic garbage. 

This mixture will generate heat. In 4 to 5 
weeks, it will have cooled off enough to add 3 or 
4 litres of earthworm culture. This may be 
obtained from the following: (i) a list of growers 
provided by the University of Guelph; (ii) dealers 
listed in Harrowsmith Magazine, or Organic 
Gardening Magazine: (Hi) Eastern Earthworm 
Farms, R.R. #7, Little Britain, Ontario, P.O. Box 
48, KOM 2C0. 

Cover the mixture with a plastic vapour 
barrier and a couple of panels of styrofoam. This 
lowers the ceiling and retains the heat. 

Except in winter months, loosen the top layer 
at 2 week intervals to incorporate air. In April 
and November, add 1 or 2 bushels of horse 
manure. 

To harvest the compost soil conditioner: (i) 
remove the prefabricated unit; (ii) lay aside the 
undigested organic refuse, the top layer; (iii) 
rake the compost culture into an inverted cone- 
shaped pile. On a sunny day, the life will retreat 
from the light to the base of the cone. Skim the 
compost soil conditioner off the outer surface of 
the pile. 

Set up the unit over the remainder of the pile. 
Put back the undigested organic refuse (g ii 
above). Continue to add kitchen organic gar¬ 
bage. 

Smaller units each with one glass side may be 
built to scale and used indoors for demonstra¬ 
tion. The Allsaw Composter provides a model 
that clarifies our understanding of our fragile 
relationship with our finite renewable resources. 
When environmental factors are attractive, pop¬ 
ulation explodes. When conditions deteriorates 
it declines. 


Several of us have been arguing over whether 
walking for 30 minutes is as good as jogging for 
30 minutes. Is it? Also, could you address safety 
and jogging: is it safer to jog during the daylight 
etc.? 

L.B., Saint John, New Brunswick 

Firstly, jogging for 30 minutes is a better cardio¬ 
vascular exercise than walking for 30 minutes 
only because you would cover a greater dis¬ 
tance by jogging. To re-phrase your question, is 
there a difference between walking a mile and 
jogging a mile? Simply, no. The demand on your 
body from a cardio-vascular perspective is the 
same; the crucial variable is the distance one 
covers- not the time it takes. As a matter of fact, 
one could probably make a better argument for 
walking as opposed to jogging! 

With regard to safety, you’ve touched on a 
very important area of consideration; a dramatic 
increase in assaults, muggings and rapes has 
been perpetrated on joggers. “Safety on the 
Run” is a programme sponsored by the Ameri¬ 
can Running and Fitness Association; they offer 
the following advice: 

• Try to run with other people. If that is incon¬ 
venient, at least try to let someone know where 
you intend to run and when you’ll return. If you 
aren't back in time, they can then know where to 
look for you. 

• Don't run at night or in isolated, unpopulated 
areas. Run at a time of day when there are plenty 
of people around. Avoid trails with heavy brush 
or dense trees that are not near main roads. 

• Avoid running in the street. If you must, always 
run facing traffic. That way you can see what is 
coming at you. Don’t run more than two people 
abreast. 

• Be alert. Use your eyes and ears. Look around 
for suspicious people or unattended dogs. 
Listen for people coming up behind and, if you 
hear something, turn around to check it out. 
Don’t wear a portable radio-cassette device. 

• Use space as a defense. Keep distance 
between yourself and someone you don't know. 
If someone wants to know what time it is, tell 


them at your own discretion, but don’t stop 
moving. Don’t let anyone catch you by surprise. 

• Use keys as a close-quarter defense. Take a 
self-defense course. 

• Carry a noise-making device, such as a 
whistle, to attract attention. 

• Carry some form of identification that pro¬ 
vides your blood type, allergies and a relative’s 
phone number for emergencies. 

• Vary your training route so that someone 
can’t expect to see you at the same time and 
place each day. 

• Become familiar with your various training 
routes so that you aren’t unpleasantly surprised 
by a dead end or desolate section removed from 
the road. 

Some of these suggestions may seem ex¬ 
treme. You will have to be the judge of which 
ones apply to your particular situation. Of all the 
suggestions, the most important is to be alert. 
Try to avoid trouble at all costs before it 
happens! 


* * * 

Our camp cook told us that even if you closed 
your eyes while peeling an onion, your eyes 
would still water. Is she correct? 

K.E., Rexdale, Ontario 

Yes, she is. Your nose is the answer; an exposed 
nerve-ending in the nose is stimulated by a 
chemical given off by the onion. It’s called the 
trigeminal nerve and it protects us by giving us 
warning signals from noxious chemicals;, it's 
also the “cool” sensation one feels from 
menthol. 

★ ★ ★ 

Thank you for your letters. We regret that we 
cannot answer*each one personally; however, 
we will endeavour to publish the most interest¬ 
ing and provocative ones. Address all letters to: 
The Camping Advisor, c/o The Editor, Canadian 
Camping, 1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2. Toronto, 
Ontario M5M 3Z1. 


5 


Exciting news for all CCA Members! And a wonderful opportunity is in this 
good news. Our Association has been awarded a grant of $10,000 by The 
Neathern Trust. 

The objectives of the grant are to provide projects which foster, 

□ The acquisition of appropriate practices in simple outdoor living 

□ The appreciation and increased understanding of the natural world 

□ The expansion of education to reflect the concern for conservation 
of our environment and energy resources. 

The principal and interest are to be expended after 10 years. Management 
will be accomplished by a special Committee to be named. 

This grant was instigated by Dr. Mary L. Northway, a long time camper and 
friend of CCA. 

Dr. Northway was a camper then staff member at Glen Bernard Camp 
near Sundridge, Ontario from 1922-1939. In 1940, Dr. Northway and Flora 
Morrison founded Windy Pine, a tripping camp near Minden, Ontario. 

Our sincerest gratitude and a special salute to Dr. Mary Northway for 
another of her unique contributions to camping in Canada. 

★ ★ ★ 

We congratulate the OCA on the recently released "Blue Lake and Rocky 
Shore", the story of OCA over its first 50 years. 

* ★ ★ 

In the next issue of Canadian Camping look for the various reports of the 
Committee and Task Force Chairmen. I know you will be pleased to learn of 
many and varied projects which are going on across Canada. 



PRESIDENT'S PERSPECTIVE 

By: Jocelyn Palm 




Families with a 
Handicapped Child 

By: Laura Schnellert, mother of 
Karen, with mental and physical 
developmental disabilities 

The opportunity to attend a weekend retreat for 
"Families with a Handicapped Child" at one of 
the Mennonite Camps with Meaning (Winnipeg, 
Manitoba) is indeed a rewarding experience. 
Being the parent of a mentally and physically 
handicapped child can at times become acutely 
distressing. The emotional support and under¬ 
standing from the parents of other handicapped 
children is instrumental in encouraging parents 
to be more positive in the ongoing challenge of 
helping their disabled child to develop and 
learn. Through this group experience persons 
are able to share their feelings and ideas to help 
and support each other. The guidance of re¬ 
source persons as facilitators and the sugges¬ 
tions and information offered by participants is 
extremely valuable. 

Another positive aspect at the retreat is the 
interaction among the children. Brothers and 
sisters are often confused about their sibling 
who is "different". Meeting with children who 
have the same concerns as they do help them to 
deal with their feelings and fears. The children 
who are mentally retarded have opportunities to 
interact and develop relationships with their 
non-handicapped peers through music, games, 
crafts, and outdoor plays. Integration, as well, 
benefits the non-handicapped children by creat¬ 


ing a positive attitude and an awareness about 
handicapping conditions. 

Participating in the weekend retreat helps 
families not only to know others better but also 
to know themselves better. Observing families 
working and playing with their disabled children 
encourages everyone to do the same and 
communicates to all involved some of the joy 
and love that is found in these families. This love 
draws the families closer together and that is 
another step toward the long difficult process of 
acceptance. 



■» 



6 




B. BLACKSTOCK/J. LATIMER 


The 

Camp 

Counsellor’s 

Handbook 

2nd Edition 

Bnan Blackstock 
John Latimer 


After the success of the first edition, 
The Camp Counsellors Handbook 
is now back in print -- in a new, 
expanded and totally revised second 
edition. 

Co-authored by two leading 
experts in the field of camp super¬ 
vision and training, this new edition 
offers a complete guide to counselling 
in the 80s. 

Programs, daily life, the needs 
and charactenstics of vanous age 
groups, counselling the physically or 
mentally handicapped, activities. 

All this and much more is covered 
in detail in this long-awaited second 
edfton. 


$9.95 paperback 
Publication: March 1984 


ORDER NOW 


2nd. Edition 








ji. 



Please send me_ 

@ S9.95 per copy. 

Name _ 

Address_ 


_copy(s) of THE CAMP COUNSELLOR’S HANDBOOK 

total amount enclosed:_ 


.Postal Code 


□ Cheque/ Money Order Enclosed 

□ VISA □ American Express □ Master Charge 



Signature 


Expiry Date 


(Credit card orders not valid without signature) 








8 


- jsnfpe oj aABg hjm jadiuBO paddBojpuBg-uou 
agi sb jsnf - aiuoojaAO oi sai^inoi^ip aABg pu 
II!m jadiuBO paddBOjpuBg agi pgi Abs oj pu sj 
S !M 1 AunqB uo snooj ppogs a/v\ suojibijiuji aABg 
||B a m ‘spjod >|B3M puB 6 uojjs jjagi SBg goBa 
pgi 'anbjun s| jadtuso goBa pgi aznaaj o\ s| 6u| 
-lUBajjsuiBiu ;o s;jBd 6ujij3xa isolu agi p auo 

apBiu aq 

oi sa 6 uBgo sAbmp ojb ajaqi asnsoaq (suBauu 
isqi jaAaiBq/w jo) uojpapad joi ijbm i.uop *aoB|d 
uj ajB siuaiua|diu! aqi io Aubuj j| Aji oi a 6 Bjnoo 
aqi aABq asB3|d ‘pusg jaqio aqi uo ing ipM op 
lou puB ijbis oi uBqi jaqio gasa gijM suB|d a>|Biu 
pus no p|og oi janaq Sj n u oiu| ind S| ig 6 nogi 
3 jouj niun aijsdwBO jnoA ib 6 ujUJBajisu!BUJ 
oiu| uB|d agiind oi apjssod iou sj i; iBgi pazjpaj 
aq isniu n jopajjp dujBO b jo pJBoq dujBO 
b sb saiuiiaiuos papBsjp agi oi sazjpjoads 
gojgM diuBO b oi o 6 oi gsjM Aagi i; tuagi 
io aAjiJOddns aq uagi isniu ayv\ ’BujdiuBo p uB|d 


^BujiuBajisuiBiu io uojs 
-uagajddB .spajBd agi gijM |aai noA op moh • 
ajois>pog VOO luojj apB 
-|!Bab suoiiBOjiqnd V'O'V luoji :suojisa66ns 
^spaau |Bpads gijM suosjad 
JOI „spjBpuBis„ pun oi ajagM mou>| noA oa • 
6s6ujuas dujBO-uou uj an|BA j3ao-Ajjbo aABg 
go;gM s|||>|s Mau ujb3| pub sisajapj dopAap 
oi sjadujBo joi papjAOjd sajijunijoddo ajy • 
aiqixan sq oi 6 u;ii;/v\ aq ppogs jjeiS - 
ajBO sjadujBo 6ujujaouoo uon 
-Biujopj pajojjps aABg ppogs sjoipsunoo - 
sapniniB umo jag jo sjg 
io ajBMB apauj si auoAjaAa os pauuB|d aq 
UBO SajljAjlOB dujBO PUB SuiUjBJl 11B1S a LUOS - 

tUBis inoqe JBLJM . 
^aABg ApB 0 j|B noA ..apiuajp,, 
agi oi op oi 6up6 6ujiuBajisujBiu si pg/\/\ • 

^dtUjl 

dujBO jnoA si paiuaiuj6aj jo apjxau moh • 



BuiiuBajisupiu jno opj in oi gsjM jo opj ijj oi 
aiqB aq |||M ‘AijuqBSjp p aaj 6 ap pgM jaipiu ou 
*a|doad papBSp ||B pn ‘aijqoiu Apiaidiuoo pu si 
ogM jo ||3M jBag jo |pM aas iouubo oqM uosjad 
b joi aiqpsoduJ! AjpniJjA jo nnojjjjp Apiuajixa 
1 ! sa>piu pgi Abm b u| papnjisuoo puB pau 6 |sap 
ajB sajnijOBj asnBoaq sajijunjjoddo ajnspi 
oi ssaooB agi pajuap ajB suosjad uago ooi nv 

sjadujBo pad 

-dBOjpusg oi ajBpj Aagi sb Aijjnpiu puB 6 uj 
-puBisjapun ui moj6 oi Aijunijoddo agi aABg 
HjM uajpngo jjagi pgi moum oi paig 6 j|ap bjb 
uajpngo paddBOjpuBg-uou p spajBd Aub|/m - 
sjadujBo puB 

spajBd gpq uj - sjBai apjpaiuiuj sasnojB 
sjgi - paddBOpuBg uo spqB| asn pu oq - 


II! saiuooaq jo >pnjs 

spB auoaiuos asBO uj siuoojgsBM u; nag - 
pujp - tuaisAs jadaag - 
• 6 uuBag p pjsg jo pap joi -sjg 6 !| 6 ujgsB|d - 
:sajniBai Aiaias inoqB pgM • 
•sjoop-p-ino agi 
p a 6 pa|Mou>| aiuos pus - aiuosajniuaApB aq 
oi 6 u!||jM si ogM auo - uosjad paddBOjpuBg 
b 6u!>jsb inoqB moh JOj apjAOJd ||;m noA 
paddBOjpuBg p sadAi pgM uo puadap ||j/\/\ 
Zpabusgo aq ppogs sijbj agi p gonuj moh • 
•(sajijuqBSjp quj;i 
jaddn joj) ^papjado poi pus puBg ujBiunoi 
auo s| gpaujapun saau>| joi ujooj - jooh 
luoji sagouj t?£ usgi ssa| sujBpnoj ^uo ujni 
oi Assg ^ig 6 jag ig 6 jj - suwiunoj Bu^uuq 


apjssaooB aq ubo Aagi ajns -seiqe± o/uo/d 
liaq b 11bis u| ^sagsjp dBos ‘jojjjiu 
agi p |3Aa| agi inoqB Mog - ujSBq gsBM asn 
uosjad paddBOjpusg agi ubo - Siuoojqse/\/\ 

ZSJjego 

pagM joi apjssaooB sapsi aje -//bh Buiuiq 

63P!S 

auo uo isb3| ib S|jBjpuBg jadojd aABg sdujBj 
oa 6dj|s-uou aoBpnsdiuBJ s| -o/ofre‘8 JO sagouj 
Zl uj asu poi auo 6% Qdo|S pgM - sdcuey 
pags uj ajojs pub 
apBaAOiuaj tuagi 3 >|blu - Abmjoop Ajoab ib 
sduiBJ iubm sAbm|bi,uop noAu pgM -sduiey 
po saujoo sAbm|b 
jaiBM ajniBjadiuai ig6jj - paujni sj apuBg 
sb os paiBp6aj jbibm aABg - s//b;s jQMoqs 
<i,S|Bo6 puB saAjpafqo jnoA bjb pgM • 
sapjs gpq luoji apjssaooB 
ajB Aagi sb 6uo| sb - bjb Aagi Aublu joi sax 
6*o s>|unq ajy • 
jP|d 6ujuuB|d ajnpi paj y 
6paiqBSjp sb 

I|3m sb sjojuas Aq pasn aq sajmjoBi agi ppoo • 
(6 u!Pubis isnf ppo sia6 i!) 0 gg isa66ns 

6UOSJ0d 

papBSjp b gijM sapujuj ot^ JSBai p joi uj 
Pubjs oi gBnoua lujbm i; sj - pod b aABg noA ij • 
■%0G - %0Z isa66ng 
6papBS!p uou/papBSjp p o / 0 pg M # 
:asagi 6uuaMsuB 

uj dpg aiuos puB >|sb igBjiu noA suojisano 

sjojuas joi 

pasn aq osp ubo pq ‘uojpuni Mau pgi SBg Apo 
pu papBSjp agi joi paudfsap pus papnjpuooaj 
uaaq SBg pgi dujBO b Isjopajjp dujBO puB 
spJBoq diuBO oi paujijad puB pBiJodLuj Ajoa sj 
6 ujdLUBo uj 6 uunpd a|doad |p oajos gojgM saji 
hijobi uj ipsaj uojpAouaj puB u 6 jsap png 6 nogi 
'jaqLuaiuaa 'pueqejojdq uojpjBdajd puB 
6 ujuuB|d gonuj op oi paau hjm noA -aiuji isjji agi 
joi sjadujBo paddBOjpuBg 6 ujpj 6 aiu! uag/\/\ 
sdLUBO agi osp pq 
* 6 ujpuaiiB uajpngo agi joi Aijunijoddo 6 u!ijoxa 
ub Apo pu sj n 6 ^ujbo aiuBS agi pu AgM 
- uajpngo jagp sb spogos blubs agi oi 06 Aagi 
diuBO ..pjoads,, b oi o6 oi pa>|SB uagM pap 6 aj 
- 6 as spai sngi pngo paddBOjpuBg agi tuaisAs 
agi oiuj Luagi 6 u!pj 6 aiu! - pijgo paddBOjpuBg 
agi BuiiuBajisupiu mou bjb spogos jno 
pijgo agi p Aijnqjs 
-uodsaj puB 3 jbo A|;ep agi luoji uojpoba b aABg 
oi Aijunijoddo isjji agi apjAOjd hjm p|jgo paddso 
-jpuag jjagi joi 6 ujdiuB 0 ‘spajBd aiuos joj 
uajpngo paddBOjpuBg oi appj Aagj sb 6ujpubis 
- japun pus Aijjnpiu uj 6 ujmoj6 3jb uajpngo 
jjagi pgi 6 ujmou>| uj ajnsB 3 |d a>|Bi Aiqsqojd 
IIJM uajpugo paddBojpuBg-uou p spajBd 
luajanjp aq oi jaaddB ogM a|doad joi 6 ujpaj pus 
6 ujpuBisjapun s.jadLUBO Ajoab aouBgua ubo 
II ajagdsoujp 6 ujuapajgi-uou puB apBAofua 
ub uj 6UJLUB3J1SUJBLU jo| 3|doad paddBOjpuBg 
ajBdajd ubo gojgM aouajjadxa panpA A|g 6 jg 
b sj 6 ujdiuBQ *a|j| p lUBajisujBLu agj opj a|doad 
paddBOjpuBg 6 uj 6 ujjq uj isjssb oi Aijijqjsuodsaj 
b sb |pM sb ‘Aijunijoddo paj 6 b aABg sdiuBQ 


sauAen bia|As :Ag 

iduoAjdAB jod si ^1 puv iunj si 6 u|duieo 


Notice of Annual Meeting 

The 1983 Annual Meeting of the Canadian Camping Association/Associa¬ 
tion des camps du Canada will be held on Friday, May 4,1984 at 7:30 p.m. at 
the Nova Scotia Agricultural College, Truro, Nova Scotia. 

• To receive reports from the President, the Provincial Camping Associa¬ 
tions, the Committee Chairmen and the Task Force Chairmen. 

• To receive the 1983/84 Financial Statement. 

• To transact other business as may properly come before the meeting. 

CCA/ACC National Office 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
March 1,1984. 


Avis de convocation 

L'assembtee annuelle 1983 de ('Association des camps du Canada/Cana¬ 
dian Camping Association se tiendra le vendredi, 4 mai, 1984 a 19h30 au 
Nova Scotia Agricultural College de Truro en Nouvelle-Ecosse. 

• vous vous seront remis alors, les rapports de la PrSsidente, des 
associations provinciales, des presidents de comites et des divers 
groupes de travails. 

• ainsi que les differents rapports annuals de I’exercices financiers 
1983/84. 

• la reunion portera aussi sur touts questions qui nous sera soumise avant 
la date prevue £ cet effet 

Siege Sociale ACC 
1806 rue Avenue, Bureau 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
Le 1 mars, 1984. 


some will have some set attitudes and expecta¬ 
tions regarding the handicapped - and some of 
these are not easily changed. But through main- 
streaming at camp we hope that they will learn 
to deal with some of their prejudices, fears, that 
they will come to see that the differences are not 
so great after all. 

It is exciting. 

It is an adventure. 

It is a challenge. 

Remembering as you plan your program for 
mainstreaming to include persons with disabili¬ 
ties to help with that planning so that you are not 
working for another but with another. 

The disabled are not a group of identical 
people but as varied as "able-bodied'’ in per¬ 
sonality, dress, sociability, etc. 

Our labelling and segregating society will 
only end and new horizons open when each of 
us is determined to get to know each other and 
this takes courage, courage to relate, courage to 
persist, and courage to change one’s attitudes. 

"A DREAM WILL REMAIN A DREAM UNLESS 
ONE CHOOSES TO ACT AND TURN THAT 
DREAM INTO A REALITY”. 

Often barriers between people have far more 
to do with personality than with disability. 

Evaluation 

Very important - essential to have counsel¬ 
lors, campers - both handicapped and non¬ 
handicapped and permanent staff to evaluate - 
both pros and cons- written. 

Resources 

‘Awareness Workshop Resource Packet” 
Serving Persons With Disabilities through 
Camping” (1982) 

"Barrier Free Leisure Facilities” 

Ren§e Lyons 

Recreation Council for the Disabled in N.S. 
N.S. Dept, of Recreation (1977) 

“Camping With Persons With Handicapping 
Conditions” 

Earl H. Miller 
Discipleship Resources 
P.O. Box 840 

Nashville, Tennessee 37202 
(1982) 

“Integrated Camping: Involving Persons with 
a Disability in Camping” 

Brenda Suderman 

Manitoba Dept of Fitness, Recreation & Sport 
(1982) 

"Outward Bound & the Physically Disabled” 

The Project Centre 

Minnesota Outward Bound School 

308 Walker Ave. South 

Wayzata, Minnesota 55391 

($4.00 U.S. funds) 

(Material not dated) 

"Mainstreaming” 

Susan R. Bookbinder 

Published by The Exceptional Parent Press 
Room 708 

Statler Office Building 
Boston, Ma. 02116 


Announcing the 
Formation of a 
Human Relations 
Skills Training 
Network for 
Outdoor Leaders 

I am attempting to form a network of persons 
interested in human relations skills training for 
outdoor leaders. Leadership skills - such as 
building community, enhancing self-esteem, 
improving communication, expressing feelings, 
taking risks, developing trust, resolving con¬ 
flicts, and empathizing - are of particular inter¬ 
est; however, other related skills may be rele¬ 
vant. The network will focus on theory and 


practice in outdoor human relations programs 
conducted by schools, camps, and religious 
institutions. I would like to identify people inter¬ 
ested in this vital aspect of education in order to 
promote the sharing of ideas and the improve¬ 
ment of practices. 

I am also collecting written materials related 
to these leadership skills for meeting personal 
and group growth objectives in outdoor pro¬ 
grams. These materials include staff training 
guides, articles and books, research studies, 
student or camper comments, philosophy state¬ 
ments, program goals, and personal testimonies. 

If you conduct an outdoor program in which 
human relations skills are emphasized or know 
of such a program, I would like to correspond 
with you. I intend to compile a list of people by 
the summer of 1984 and will mail it to those 
participating in the network. 

PLEASE CONTACT DR. CUFFORD E. KNAPP. 
BOX 313, OREGON, ILLINOIS, U.SA 61061. 


9 


Camp, Growth 

By: Bruce Elkin 


and the Power of the Person 



Bruce Elkin is Director of the Yamnuska Moun¬ 
tain School in Canmore, Alberta. He is a consul¬ 
tant in program and operations planning for 
camps and other experiential education 
approaches. 

The Vision 

The next ten years will see a rapid growth in 
outdoor activities and experiential learning. 
Camping, adventure recreation and outdoor 
pursuits are on the rise. Not only are more 
people taking part in these activities for the fun 
inherent in them, the activities are also being 
recognized as important arenas of learning and 
personal growth. 

As schools continue to decline in impact and 
importance they, and the community as a whole, 
will look elsewhere for assistance in providing 
children and youth meaningful opportunities for 
learning and growth. Similarly, adults will begin 
to look toward nontraditional opportunities for 
learning to satisfy their rapidly increasing need 
for continuing education. The fastest growing 
area of public (and private) education is con¬ 
tinuing education. The area of growing concern 
within both the public schools and continuing 
education is how to provide learners with life¬ 
long learning skills and the skills with which to 
direct their own learning. Masuda writes in his 
powerfully argued book, The Information Soci¬ 
ety, that the use of personal computers will “lift 
education out of the restrictions of formal 
schools”, introduce a “personal type of educa¬ 
tion", and that “the system of self-education will 
become the leading form of education” within 
twenty years. 

It is within this context of change and growth 
in both recreation and education that I see 
“camps” becoming integrated centres for per¬ 
sonal growth providing unique programs for 
children, youth and adults. Camp has a vital and 
important role to play in the creation and provi¬ 
sion of opportunities and facilities for recreation, 
learning and growth. These components- which 
are easier to remember as "the 3W’s” - Will, 
Wisdom, and Wherewithal - are the basic - or 
generic - components of human competence 
and healthy growth. They underly all specific 
skills and abilities, and are the basic principles 
with which to create new skills as needed. 
Hence, they can be called "generic skills". 

Personal growth includes the development of 
specific skills and abilities as well as the growth 
of generic skills and abilities. Specific skills like 
archery or rock climbing can be learned for their 
own sake, as well as for their application to the 
development of the more general skills of will, 
wisdom and/or wherewithal. 

Programs can be developed that promote 
specific skill development, generic skills, or 
both. They can be developed to focus on one of 
the generic areas at a time or on the interaction 
between them. 

Skill training, for example, would encourage 
the growth of wherewithal, - the ability to put 


ideas into action - whether learning to shoot 
arrows into balloons, climb a difficult rock pitch, 
or prepare a balanced budget. In all of these 
areas it is one thing to have the idea and another 
to be able to put it into practice effectively. How¬ 
ever, the same general things are necessary to 
achieve success in each area - things like 
patience, practice, persistence, perseverance, 
timing and the ability to learn from mistakes. 

Likewise, evening discussions with peers, a 
heart to heart talk with a counsellor, or regular 


journal writing would promote thoughtfulness 
and reflection leading to increased wisdom. 

Initiative games, encountering a challenging 
mountaineering problem or listening to an inspir¬ 
ing talk by a camp director help build a sense of 
initiative or purpose which strengthens the will 
to act. 

Programs for younger campers obviously 
would focus on the development of specific 
skills more than generic skills, while programs 
for older youth and adults could focus on the 


10 








generic approach to a greater degree. However, 
there are ways to develop skills in youngsters 
that also develop the beginnings of initiative 
thoughtfulness, and the importance of “stick-to- 
it-ness". Programs that promote a sense of 
effectiveness - *1 did it!’ - in a wide variety of 
areas lead to a generalized sense of compe¬ 
tence - “I can do!” - and provide a strong 
foundation for personal growth in a generic 
sense for both kids and adults. 

The Challenge of Learning 

Most camping or recreation programs are in 
the business of providing high quality experi¬ 
ence for their participants. They may call it “fun”, 
“enjoyment”, “good times”, or whatever. It may 
be trivial or it may be profound, but it is a big part 
of why people come to camp and why they 
come back. We can never forget that it is a 
necessary part of what we do. But it is not ail of 
what we do. 

I sincerely believe that the other major reason 
why kids and adults come to camp is that it is a 
place where they can exercise and develop 
their “personalpower" Not only is camp a place 
to have good experiences it is a place where the 
individual can create and manage his or her 
own experience. It is a place to test one’s 
powers by actually doing things; a place where 
lack of success is not traumatic, but rather an 
opportunity to try again. Above all. it is a place to 
extend oneself - to grow. Why else would a 
skinny fourteen year-old boy say that the high¬ 
light of his life so far was hiking for eight days in 
the high mountains through snow and fog with 
not enough food to go around? Because he 
knows now that he can do it. And knowing that 
makes him more confident about himself and 
his ability to do hard things in general. 

Camping and recreation programs can - 
some would say should - go beyond simply 
laying on high quality experiences and begin to 
explore ways to enable their participants to 
create and manage their own experience. Of 
course we must continue to provide good times, 
but sometimes, for some people we can also 
provide the opportunities and skills to create 
their own good times. We can enable them to 
take greater charge of their own learning and 
experience, both while they are in our programs 
and after they have left us and resumed their 
on-going daily lives. This ability to take it home- 
the transference of learning and experience - 
could become the greatest gift of organized 
camping to the community at large. If we can 
devise ways to insure that participants in our 
programs go home with greater initiative, 
thoughtfulness, and increased abilities which 
they know how and why to use throughout their 
lives, if we can help them develop social skills 
that help them get along with others; if we can 
help them develop both a sense of social 
responsibility - the ability to function effectively 
on one’s own, in the absence of outside direction 
and support - then we will have rendered a 
service to society that no other agency or 
institution is capable of doing. Camping in its 
broadest sense has the potential to render that 
service. But only if we expand our vision of what 
it means to grow, only if we see the challenge of 


learning to learn as important as the challenge 
of learning to swim or climb mountain peaks. In 
my mind both kinds of learning are necessary 
and possible in our outdoor camp setting. 

Experience, Action and Managing Change 

Aldous Huxley stated that “experience is not 
what happens to a person, experience is a result 
of what a person does with what happens". 
Many different things happen to people in a 
camp setting, often new and difficult things. 
Some are able to deal with those things, others 
are not. One of the main jobs of staff and coun¬ 
sellors is to help folks deal with what happens to 
them. There are at least two different ways to 
approach helping someone. You can do it for 
them, or you can help them develop the desire, 
the knowledge and the ability to help them¬ 
selves. It is kind of like the old parable “give a 
man a fish and he eats for a day. Teach him to 
fish and he’ll never go hungry”. 

Being able to do something with what hap¬ 
pens to you - whether learning to live with 9 new 
people in a wet tepee, or navigating to safety on 
a storm-bound glacier, or overcoming a history 
of budgetary deficits - is a function of one’s 
ability to act. And to act effectively. Effective 
action is made up of a balance of initiative, 
thoughtfulness, and skill - the 3 W’s. 

So personal growth comes to be defined as 
the ability to manage what happens to us by 
initiating and carrying out thoughtful, effective 
actions, thereby taking responsibility for the 
quality of our own experience. It means being 
able to deal with change- initiating it, suspend¬ 
ing it, and living with it- accepting it- when it is 
inevitable. 

Why learn about change? Why learn about 
the process of learning? Why worry about initia¬ 
tive and thoughtfulness? Why develop generic 
action skills? 

Because the predominant feature of modern 
life is change. The growing inability of institu¬ 
tions to help individuals deal effectively with the 
change that surrounds and assaults them daily 
is creating a “learned helplessness" that is the 
root of most of our personal and social dilem¬ 
mas. 

In times of little change, when things are fairly 
simple and routine, there is little need for generic 
skills. There is no pressing need to know how to 
create actions or change. You just do what 
others tell you - parents, teachers, community 
leaders - or what all the others are doing, or 
have done, and things usually work out fine. The 
traditional ways of dealing with things have 
been worked out over long periods and are 
usually appropriate for whatever conditions 
prevail. 

However, in times of rapid change we often 
find ourselves in situations which are non¬ 
routine. We face conditions wherein it is not 
clear what we should do, there is no one to tell 
us what to do, no examples to follow and we feel 
paralyzed, helpless. Plagued by change, unable 
to act, our experience is one of frustration, and 
anxiety. Novelty and change can bring great 
opportunity if we are able to deal with them. If 
not they bring the misery of inconvenience and 
unsolvable problems. 


It is non-routine situations, rapid change and 
unprecedented complexity that the generic 
approach is designed to help deal with. The 
generic approach is not a substitute for estab¬ 
lished wisdom and traditional ways of doing 
things. Rather, it is a way of examining our 
existing wisdom and wherewithal to determine 
which of it is appropriate for the situations and 
conditions we face. Further, it is a way of 
creating new ways of doing things when the old 
ways do not work. When we run out of tricks and 
techniques for dealing with what is happening 
to us it is very helpful to have both an attitude 
that *1 can do' and the generic skills to create 
new ways of dealing with what is happening. 

A good balance of both specific skills and 
generic skills enable us to grow and continue to 
grow, as persons regardless of changing condi¬ 
tions. It enables us to balance our responsibility 
to ourselves with our responsibility to others 
and the human community. For me, the place 
where I have seen persons grow in this way the 
most is 'camp’. My dream, my desire, is to 
encourage and facilitate that growth in a way 
that is fun, challenging and transferable. My 
hope is that camps are becoming re-creational 
and educational centres for personal growth 
that can include generic approaches to personal 
growth and learning as well as the tried and true 
traditional camping approaches. 

Afterword: The Need for a Generalized 
Personal Entrepreneurship 

In writing this statement of thoughts, wishes, 
and dreams, it comes to me that I am advocating 
that we assist individuals to become entrepre¬ 
neurs in a general way. Not necessarily business 
entrepreneurs, but entrepreneurs of life. Per¬ 
sons who are not afraid to take initiative and act 
on their beliefs in order to achieve what they feel 
is worthwhile. People who are willing and able 
to face the unknown, to accept the challenge of 
change of growth, and to take the risks that are 
necessary to make themselves and the world 
they live in a little better. 

There are certain persons I encounter at 
camp - kids, C.l.T.’s, staff - who reaffirm “the 
power of youth”. When I think about those 
people and that power I see that almost magical 
combination of initiative and will, of thoughtful¬ 
ness and self examination and a well developed 
willingness and ability to get about the nitty- 
gritty doing of what must be done. I see will, 
wisdom, and wherewithal. And I see a sense of 
responsibility to self, others, and the world as a 
whole. 

It is that power, that openness to life and 
growth, that risky business of exploring what it 
means to be a growing human being that I mean 
by personal entrepreneurship. Taking the risks 
inherent in being the architect of your own 
experience, rather than being content with being 
a spectator to your own life. I think “camp” is one 
of the few places in this passive, expert and 
specialist-ridden world of ours where that 
power of the individual can grow and develop 
alongside of a deep respect for the power and 
importance of a sense of community, and our 
individual and collective place in the overall 
scheme of things. 


11 



CROUP DYNAMICS EXERCISE 

The counsellor's Perception vs. The camper's Perception 

By: John Latimer I 


FRIENDSHIP 


MIKE 



PETER 


DAVID 


As counsellors and leaders, it's quite possible 
that the perceptions we have of each of our 
campers varies from what they think of each 
other 

At school, and at camp, situations have been 
experienced in which a young person who has 
a good sense of humour, is always in the lime¬ 
light, and who is the most noticeable as consid¬ 
ered by his leaders to be very popular, and a 
friend of everyone. However, when it comes 
down to ‘the crunch’, one might discover that 
this particular person is not really everyone’s 
friend, nor is he the most popular or highly 
respected individual. 

When this contrast is discovered, the leader is 
then in a position to more comfortably and 
capably work with his group - knowing how 
everyone really feels, and not how he thinks 
they feel. 

Sociometry is a technique developed some 
years ago which basically helps leaders, and 
indeed individuals within a group, to assess 
their true attitudes toward one another. 

A very simplified adaptation of Sociometry 
can be used quite effectively at camp. One does 
not need to go into the technique in great detail 
(space really doesn’t allow this), for this needs 
experienced people to administer and interpret 
the results if done as a full scale exercise. 

This technique can be used by a counsellor 
to either reinforce his perceptions of each of his 
campers, or help him to re-evaluate his assess¬ 
ment as to how each child fits into the group. 

The format is simple. After assuring all parti¬ 
cipants of confidentiality, certain positive ques¬ 
tions are asked which allow each camper to 
‘name’ those they consider to be, for example, 
the most popular, or the one who is most 
reliable. The counsellor might perceive Jimmy 
to be the most popular camper, but the exercise 
indicates that in truth, Chuck is the most popular. 
This insight can be very helpful to a counsellor 
as he works to develop a better working relation¬ 
ship with his group. 

1. Six or eight campers can be questioned. 

2. Questions are written, and each camper is 
given a sheet of paper with each question, 
after which there is space for him to ‘name’ a 
first and second choice, as to who best fits 
the question. 

For example, if I am trying to determine 
whom others regard as the most socially 
mature, I might ask the question "Your group 
has been asked to designate one person to 
be on the committee to plan a dance with a 
neighbouring girl’s camp. Who would you 
select? 

1 - 2 - 

3. When the sheets are collected, the counsellor 
indicates the results on a separate sheet for 
each quality (see sample). 


Here are some more suggested questions to 

seek out the appropriate 'qualities’. 

a) Your Camp Director has secretly told you of 
an upcoming full camp caper which he is 
planning. He has said you can confidentially 
tell ONLY one other person in your group. 
Who will you tell? (The quality we are seeking 
is TRUST). 

b) Your Dad has just written to say that he has 
two tickets for everyone’s favorite, Michael 
Jackson for the first Saturday in September. 
You can take one friend from your cabin with 
you. Who will you invite? (The quality we are 
looking for is FRIEND¬ 
SHIP). 

c) Your group is on a canoe trip, and because of 
an emergency situation, both your counsellor 
and LIT. have to leave for about two hours. 
The group must stay on the camp site. One of 
the group is to be left in charge. Who would 
you choose? (The quality we are looking for is 
LEADERSHIP). 

d) You are going out on a trip with campers from 
other cabins. You have some money hidden 
away in your trunk, and for some reason you 
don’t want to leave it at the camp office. 
Whom would you leave it with for safekeep¬ 
ing? (The quality we are looking for is 
HONESTY or TRUST). 

Sample 

At the top of the page, the counsellor writes 

the quality FRIENDSHIP. The names of the 


campers are listed around the outside of the 
circle. The first choice selections are in a solid 
line, second choice, if desired, in a dotted line. 

Questions which a counsellor could ask 
himself, as a result of the results in this sample 
are: 

1) Mike is not regarded as a "close” friend. What 
can I be doing about this? But Mike regards 
David as his ‘best friend’. How can David help 
me to help Mike? 

2) Peter and Simon regard each other as ‘clos¬ 
est’ friends. Does this situation create a 
‘clique’? Should I be encouraging them to 
develop other friendships as well? 

3) If I have a homesickness problem with Brett, 
should I ask Simon and Peter to help me help 
Brett? 

4) While Mike was not chosen 1st (or 2nd if 
these lines are included), it does not neces¬ 
sarily mean he has no friends. 

Comments 

■ The counsellor must use good judgement in 
his assessment of the responses. They should 
be regarded as guidelines and observations. 

■ In most cases, the results are kept confidential 
and not shared. It is not a game. People could be 
hurt! 

■ The information is an aid to a counsellor in 
becoming more familiar with the group and 
therefore being of more help in assisting each 
camper to gain more from camp life. 


12 



BOOK REVIEW 


A book of this calibre, looking at the world of 
children’s camping from the turn of the century, 
has never before been written. 

A first among Canadian books, BLUE LAKE 
AND ROCKY SHORE is the history of children’s 
camping, which had its formal beginning and 
first expansion in the Province of Ontario. Offi¬ 
cial launching of the attractive 112 page book 
was timed to coincide with the Annual Confer¬ 
ence of The Ontario Camping Association, Feb. 
23, 24, 25, Inn On The Park, Toronto. 

Behind every educational undertaking there 
has to be a parent organization or governing 
body if it is to operate to full capacity and 
produce effectively. The Ontario Camping 
Association, founded in the early Thirties’, is the 
governing body of most children’s camps in 
Ontario, and it is its history that makes fascinat¬ 
ing reading in the book, BLUE LAKE AND 
ROCKY SHORE, just off the press. A book 
showing in its visually pleasing format the 
vigour of outdoor living, as it pays tribute to 
these founders who lived and camped before 
this generation, has at last been written by a 
selected committee of Ontario Camping Asso¬ 
ciation Executive Members. 

BLUE LAKE AND ROCKY SHORE traces 
OCA’s history from the turn of the century when 
only a handful of camps existed in what was 
then the far reaches of the Ontario Northern 
wilderness ... Muskoka, Algonquin Park, and 
Temagami, where the occasional Hudson’s Bay 


Fur Traders’ canoes still travelled from Montreal 
to Lake Superior and beyond. 

From that era to the present time, camp sites 
and equipment, life saving methods, health and 
safety standards, training of staff, and annual 
conferences have been developed and are an 
accepted part of each year’s activities, which 
help to make each child’s experience at camp a 
safe and happy one. 

Readers of BLUE LAKE AND ROCKY SHORE 
will discover some of the fun as well as the 
serious side of year-round outdoor living under 
the guidance and inspiration of dedicated 
leaders, counsellors and ... in the long run ... 
lifelong friends. The following excerpt from the 
book is typical of the more humorous recollec¬ 
tions of camping veterans. 

“A camp director received an irate letter 
from a boy’s parents complaining about a 
serious lack of supervision at the camp. 

Their boy had written a letter in which he 
described how, on a recent canoe trip, the 
kids had fun jumping into the water from a 
forty-foot bridge. 

In haste the director spoke to the coun¬ 
sellors in charge, demanding to know the 
facts of the matter. It appeared the story 
was true, except that the boy had neglected 
to say that the bridge was forty-feet long 
but only three feet above the water.” 

BLUE LAKE AND ROCKY SHORE is available 
from the CCA Bookstore for $8.95. 


JUST 

PUBLISHED 



Illustrated, 

Photographs, 

112 Pages. $8.95 
A must for 
parents, camp 
counsellors and 
campers past 
and present 
alike. 

At bookstores 
or from the 
publisher: 
Natural Heritage 
(416) 694-7907 


■ ■ INTER CITY 

■ ■ PAPERS UMITED 


PRICE WILSON DIVISION _ 

For a complete line of 
Food Service Disposables 

CALL 

The Professionals at 

( 416 ) 678-2210 


13 







Real Programs 
for Real People 



By: Rick Ireland 
Outdoor Recreation Dept. 
Edmonton YWCA 

A number of years ago, the term INTEGRATION 
probably meant things like bussing, equal rights 
and constitutional and moral difficulties incurred 
by our neighbour to the south. 

Integration in the mid-eighties has a very 
different meaning for the camping community in 
that it has a focus upon the rights of the disabled 
individual rather than the rights of a particular 
race or the political power of a geographical 
region. For us, integration is the right of a dis¬ 
abled person to be included in a regular camp 
program and be viewed as a PERSON. With a 
little help and knowledge, we can provide those 
quality-of-life experiences to the disabled in a 
camp setting rather than routine, segregated 
"special camps”. 

Many of us are deeply moved by the emotional 
appeal of the numerous "Telethons” on the air 
waves which ask, plead and occasionally 
demand money so that a handicapped, disabled 
or underprivileged person can attend a camp or 
institution. How easy it is to write a cheque or 
open our camp gates to the disabled so that they 
might partake in the same summer rites as 
normal children. 

Both cheque writing and gate opening require 
very little involvement on our part. Perhaps the 
time has come for the camping community to 
become more involved in the integration 
process. 

Undoubtedly, there are numerous camps 
which are many steps ahead of this "opinion”. 
For those which lag behind, when was the last 
time that they examined their "integration pro¬ 
cess”. As we have come to realize, integration is 
much more than simply mixing a few "disabled" 
campers with all of the “normal” campers during 
a given period. That process appears to do little 
but frustrate everyone from the camper to the 
Camp Director. Quite likely, everyone has an 
overall good time but with a little research and 
appropriate staffing, that "good time" can be 
elevated to encompass a positive learning ex¬ 
perience by all in attendance, from camper to 
counsellor. 

Alberta Recreation and Parks provided a 
special grant in 1983 which enabled a variety of 
sponsors, including summer camps, to hire 
specialists to respond to the needs of the dis¬ 
abled camper. To their credit, this program has 
been extended into 1984. 

The Edmonton YWCA’s YoWoChAs Centre 
has been providing integrated programs for the 
disabled for a number of years. Hopefully, the 
programs have met the needs of the disabled 
camper in those often nebulous terms of quality 
of life, socialization process. In those programs, 
we were offering activities and sessions based 
upon what we thought they needed rather than 


providing programs and support focussing 
upon their real needs. Through the Recreation 
for the Disabled Grant and the subsequent 
acquisition of a trained, dedicated and experi¬ 
enced staff specialist, we have increased the 
chances of meeting the real needs of the 
disabled camper mentally, emotionally and 
physically. 

Our ramps are a little too steep and our 
showers are a little too narrow. The mud on the 
paths becomes a little too muddy but now we 
know. We now know the value of obtaining 
advice from the "real" people as well as the 
experts. How often have we developed pro¬ 
grams based upon what we think they need, 
rather than upon what “/hey” state that they 
want. And, in many cases, "they" should know, 
being in the braces, wheelchairs, crutches and 
walkers. 

In concluding this lengthy statement of opin¬ 
ion, one important fact jumps out: The move 
from "normal” to integrated camping is a major 
step in the overall development of a camp. Such 
a step requires certain capital as well as a 
special attitude amongst all levels of the camp 
structure from Director to camper to grounds 
keeper. What we (the administration) think they 
want and what they actually need and/or want 
can be miles apart. Specialists, consultants and 
government can all play vital parts in moving a 
camp along the continuum to provide the camp¬ 
ing experience to all. 

For the camps that are already involved in the 
integration process, more power to them. For 
those that are not yet there, maybe it’s time for 
some serious thought on the matter. 


POEM 


When life is complete, 

You look around and say 

Have I done this, have I done that, 

So they can remember me? 

I used to go to church 
When I was just a little kid. 

I used to believe in Santa Claus too, 

Someone had a hold of me. 

My Mother used to tell me 
Just what it was I would be, 

What year I would be free of her 
And where I would go to live. 

My Father was just the same. 

He checked out all the boys; 

This one’s too old, this one’s too young, 

And this one is just in between. 

Now they are dead and long gone; 

No more do they have a hold over me. 

They have left me all alone 
so I can be just what I want to be. 

The funny thing of it is 
That them I sadly miss. 

I wish they were here so they could see 
That I am being, just for them. 

Donna Silver, Secondary School 


14 



Counsellor in 
Training Manual 
Review 


By: Mary Milne 


Counsellor In Training Manual 


CIT INSTRUCTOR’S MANUAL 

Designed for use by the CIT Director 
Special tips for presentation of each topic 
Suggestions for exercise answers 
Additional references for each chapter 
Price includes Binder, Manual & Instructor Notes 


@ $14.95 


No camp should be without this text! It is a virtual 
gold mine for both the CIT Director and the CIT. 
This manual is produced in 3 ring binder form 
which makes it easy to add personal notes or 
individual camp anecdotes. The manual zeroes 
in on the most important aspects of counsellor 
training. The wealth of material is suitably div¬ 
ided into 11 chapters. The Director’s Notes for 
each chapter provide a list of objectives, sug¬ 
gested methods of presentation for the material, 
evaluation techniques and additional references 
and resource material. Each chapter gives the 
prospective counsellor a list of measurable 
objectives, relevant information and an oppor¬ 
tunity to put the information to practical use in 
the form of task assignments. An added feature 
of this particular manual is the vast variety of 
methods which allows the CIT to research and 
analyse the basics of camp organization and 
management. Another plus for the CIT Director 
is the answer guide which corresponds to the 
factual questions listed in the various chapters. 
The manual would certainly be a valuable asset 
to both the CIT Director and CITs at your camp! 


SHIPPING RATES: 

$20.00 or less, order must be Prepaid with $2.00 included for shipping. 
$20.01 - $50.00, order may be billed. Shipping rate will be $3.00. 

More than $50.00 - shipping rate will be determined per order. 


CIT MANUAL 1-9 copies @ $9.95 

10 copies or more @ $8.00 

Chapter Topics: 

Camp History & Philosophy 

Camp Facilities, Policies and Procedures 

The Role of the CIT 


Health and Safety at Camp 
The World of the Camper 
Communication 
The Effective Teacher 
Leadership 
Program Organization 
Public Relations 
Evaluation 


CAMP { 

COUNSELLORS 

CARE^^ 




VJ,. ; 




4 JL** /**<♦>. iA*Sty 


Payment due within 30 days of invoice date. Interest will be charged on 
overdue accounts. All prices are subject to change without notice. 


Name 

ORDER FORM 

Telephone 

Rub-Total 


Address— 


Shipping 


City _ 

Prov. Postal Code 

TOTAL 

Signature 

Prepaid 

No 

HIT IN9TRI IPTHR’R MAMI IAI 

Please invoice 



— wi i iino i i un o iviminuml 

@ $14.95 

Quote Purchase Order No._ 


No. 

_ CIT MANUAL 1-9 Copies @ $9.95 ea. 

10+ (a) $8.00 ea. 




15 





SOCIETY PRIX DE REDACTION 

OF DE LA SOCIETE 

CAMP DIRECTORS DES DIRECTEURS 

AWARDS PAPERS DES CAMPS 


$450.00 

The Society of Camp Directors, in cooperation with La Societe des directeurs des camps, de concert 
the Canadian Camping Association will award a total avec I’Association des camps du Canada, lance un 

of $450.00 in prizes for articles relating to camping. concours de redaction sur le camping et accordera 

The winning articles will be published in the Summer 450,00$ en prix aux gagnants. Les articles selection- 

1985 issue of Canadian Camping. nes paraTtront dans le magazine de (’Association, 

edition ete 1985. 


CONTEST RULES 
Categories 

Director: prize $200.00 
length not to exceed 3000 words 

Staff: prize $150.00 

length not to exceed 2000 words 

Camper prize $100.00 
length not to exceed 800 words 

Send articles to: 



Society of Camp Directors 


REGLEMENTS DU CONCOURS 
Categories 

Directeurs: prix de 200,00$ 
maximum 3000 mots 

Membres du personnel: prix de 150,00$ 
maximum 200 mots 

Campeurs: prix de 100,00$ 
maximum 1800 mots 


Veuillez envoyer vos articles a I’adresse suivante: 


Editor 

Society of Camp Directors Awards Papers 
1806 Avenue Road 
Suite 2 

Toronto, Ontario 
M3M 3Z1 



Le redacteur 
Prix de redaction de la Societe 
des directeurs des camps 
1806 Avenue Road 
Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario 


M5M 3Z1 


Two copies of your article marked SOCIETY OF 
CAMP DIRECTORS AWARDS PAPERS must be 
received by November 15,1984 to be eligible. 

Articles may be submitted in French or English. 

All articles must be original work, not previously 
published elsewhere. 


Pour etre admissible votre article portant la mention 
Prix de redaction de I’Association des directeurs des 
camps doit nous parvenir en double exemplaires, au 
plus tard le 15 novembre 1984. 

Les articles peuvent etre rediges en frangais ou en 
anglais. 

II devra s’agir de textes authentiques et inedits. 



Canadian 

Conservation 

Directory 

Ever wonder who else is working to safeguard 
Canada's environment? The Canadian Nature 
Federation’s "Canadian Conservation Direc¬ 
tory” details government and non-government 
organizations concerned with environmental 
issues. 

Organizations are described in the following 
categories: 

Provincial* national and international 
organizations 

Environmental Advisory Councils 
Provincial, federal, inter-governmental 
agencies 
Nature Centres 
Museums of Natural History 
Professional organizations 
Environmental lawyers 
Environmental consulting firms 
The date established, purpose, number of 
members, serialized and specialized publica¬ 
tions, and recent activities of each organization 
are detailed. 

Your directory may be purchased for $5 plus 
50$ handling charge by writing to: 

Canadian Nature Federation 
75 Albert Street, Suite 203 
Ottawa, Ontario KIP 6G1 

Upcoming 

Leadership 

Development 

opportunities 

NEW BRUNSWICK 
Camp Committee Workshop 
April 6-7/84, Sussex 
Camp Committee Volunteers 

NOVA SCOTIA 
Spring Conference 
May 4-5/84, Halifax 

Camp Directors, Sr. Staff and Counsellors 
ONTARIO 

Counsellor Conference 

May 12/84, Toronto: Seneca College 

Camp Counsellors and Jr. Counsellors 

NEW BRUNSWICK 

Counsellor/Director Wknd 

May 25-27/84 

ONTARIO 

OCA Canoe School 
June 7-10/84 
Ail canoe staff 

NEW BRUNSWICK 
Canoe Instructions School 
June 8-10/84 
All canoe staff 


ORDER 

CAMP 

COUNSELLOR’S 

HANDBOOK 

From the CCA Bookstore 
Now. 

(Prepay $9.95 + $1.50 shipping) 

Canadian Heritage 
Rivers System 

The establishment of the Canadian Heritage 
Rivers System (CHRS) was announced by the 
federal Minister of the Environment, the Minister 
of Indian and Northern Affairs and provincial 
and territorial participating ministers on January 
18,1984. 

The Canadian Heritage Rivers Board met on 
January 19,20. This was the inaugural meeting. 

Attending the Board meeting were represen¬ 
tatives of the Federal Government and the 
Provinces of Newfoundland, New Brunswick, 
Ontario, Manitoba, Saskatchewan and the 
Yukon and Northwest Territorial Governments. 
The representative of Manitoba was nominated 
as Chairperson for the initial year of operations. 

Of prime concern to the Board was the topic 
of communication of the objectives of the Cana¬ 
dian Heritage Rivers System, which are: 

"to give national recognition to outstanding 
examples of the Canadian river heritage 
and to ensure future management which 
will conserve their significant heritage 
values and provide opportunities for public 
appreciation and recreational enjoyment 
of the heritage.” 

A five-year information plan was adopted by 
the Board, designed to draw the attention of the 
public to the objectives and to the progress of 
nomination and designation of Canadian Heri¬ 
tage Rivers. 

The Board examined nominations of sections 
of two rivers - Athabasca and South Nahanni - 
for consistency with the selection guidelines for 
the CHRS. The Board will recommend to the 
Minister of the Environment, Canada, that they 
be accepted as candidate heritage rivers. 

In the view of the Board, the Bloodvein River 
(Manitoba) and the French River (Ontario) would 
meet the guidelines. The Board will be pleased 
to receive formal nominations from the provin¬ 
cial ministers at its next meeting. Both of these 
rivers have been studied and are close to the 
stage at which they can be tabled by the 
provinces concerned on an early occasion. 

Other study progress is expected to be 
brought to the Board for its next meeting, 
probably in July 1984, at which time 3-4 addi¬ 
tional rivers are likely to be put forward for 
nomination. 


Reseau de rivieres 
du patrimoine 
canadien 

Le 18 janvier 1984, le Ministre federal de I’Envi- 
ronnement, les Ministre des Affaires indiennes 
et du Nord, de m§me que les ministres des 
gouvernements provinciaux et territoriaux par¬ 
ticipants annongaient la creation du Roseau de 
rivieres du patrimoine canadien. 

Imm6diatement apr6s, les 19 et 20 janvier, 
avait lieu la premiere reunion de la Commission 
des rivieres du patrimoine. Etaient presents e 
cette reunion, des representants des gouverne¬ 
ments federal et provinciaux, incluant Terre- 
Neuve, la Nouveau-Brunswick, TOntario, le 
Manitoba, la Saskatchewan, ainsi que des gou¬ 
vernements du Yukon et des Territoires du 
Nord-Ouest. C’est le reprSsentant du Manitoba 
qui fut nomm6 president de la Commission pour 
le mandat de cette premiere annee de fonction- 
nement 

L’une des premieres preoccupations de la 
Commission, e cette occasion, a 6t£ la diffusion 
des objectifs du Roseau de rivieres du patri¬ 
moine canadien qui sont les suivants: 

“mettre en evidence, au niveau national, 
des exemples remarquables de rivieres 
faisant partie du patrimonie canadien, 
assurer la gestion de ces rivieres en vue 
de proteger leurs valeurs patrimoniales et 
d’offrir au public la possibilite d’apprecier 
ces valeurs et de les utiliser e des fins de 
loisirs.” 

La Commission adopta un plan de communi¬ 
cation quinquennal destine e sensibiliser le 
public aux objectifs du Reseau et e le tenir 
informe des progres realises en ce qui a trait e la 
nomination et designation de rivieres du patri¬ 
moine canadien. 

La Commission a egalement procede e 
I’examen de documents de nomination touchant 
les sections de deux rivieres, e I’interieur de 
pares nationaux, celles de I’Athabasca et de 
Nahanni Sud, en vue d’6valuer dans quelle 
mesure elles satisfont aux criteres de selection 
etablis pour le RRPC. De fait, la Commission va 
recommander que ces sections de rivieres 
soient acceptees comme candidates e la desi¬ 
gnation au titre de rivieres du patrimoine. 

Selon (’opinion de la Commission, les rivieres 
Bloodvein (Manitoba) et French (Ontario) satis¬ 
font aussi aux criteres; la Commission souhaite- 
rait recevoir, e la prochaine reunion, les nomina¬ 
tions approuvees par les ministres sur ces 
rivieres sont adequates, au point que les pro¬ 
vinces interessees peuvent soumettre les nomi¬ 
nations e la premiere occasion opportune. 

II est interessant de noter qu’on pourra faire 
etat d’autres progres dans ces sens, e la pro¬ 
chaine reunion de la Commission qui devrait se 
tenir en juillet 1984. A ce moment, on s'attend e 
ce que des nominations soient soumises au 
regard de trois ou quatre rivieres. 


17 



Dispose of camp food 
service problems with 

royal Chinet 

disposable plates and bowls 

Strong, attractive Royal CHINET food service products help you ... 

• DISPOSE OF DISHWASHING COSTS 

Cut the expense of installing, maintaining and manning equipment 
that is used only a few months of the year. 

• DISPOSE OF BREAKAGE 

Save yourself the trouble and expense of buying matching replace¬ 
ments for pieces that crack, chip and shatter. 

• DISPOSE OF FOOD WASTE 

You get exact portion control with Royal CHINET's wide range of 
sizes in regular and compartmented designs. 

• DISPOSE OF GERM COLLECTORS 

Royal CHINET products are sterilized when manufactured and 
packaged. And there's never a germ-collecting chip, crack or 
poorly washed dish. 

• DISPOSE OF IRRITATING NOISE 

Disposable service is silent service. Meals are relaxed without the 
clatter and crash of china or metal. 

ENVIRONMENTAL ADVANTAGES, TOO 

All good campers want to protect the environment. Royal CHINET prod¬ 
ucts are manufactured from a renewable resource. What's more, they’re 
biodegradable ... molded of natural wood fibres that burn readily with 
little smoke. Even if discarded out-of-doors, Royal CHINET quickly de¬ 
composes in the earth. 

Get the full particulars now. Mail this coupon today. 


CKF Inc 

HANTSPORT, NOVA SCOTIA, BOP IPO 

Please provide me with details of the variety and costs of Royal 
CHINET food service products. 

NAME_____ 

COMPANY or CAMP__ 

ADDRESS_-—- 

. CITY_—---PROV- 








CAMPING... THE LAST WORD! 


Recently, several letters we have received are 
quasi-editorials, mixing opinion with questions 
asking for further information, explanation or 
clarification. In the past, we’ve answered some 
of these letters and have run them in our Letters 
to the Editor; however, we will endeavour to 
keep our Letters to the Editor as strictly letters 
from you, our readership. Where a specific 
question is asked - we have the Camping 
Advisor, but in those questionnable areas where 
opinion is advanced plus a demand for further 
editorial input, we will place them in this new 
category: Camping... The Last Word! We invite 
and welcome dialogue, differences of opinion, 
conflict over philosophical issues, etc. 

In your August ’83 Issue of Canadian Camping 
you included a letter from H.R., Sudbury, Onta¬ 
rio in which the writer proposes that boys and 
girls be allowed “to sleep In the same dorms, 
cabins or tents” The writer states tht “children 
would undoubtedly have no trouble with this 
set-up” and continues by questioning “How 
long wifi we continue to subject children to our 
hang-ups?” 

Your response as Editor indicates that you 
whole-heartedly endorse this proposal and that 
you have “hundreds of studies” which prove 
that such a proposal “is a very beneficial one”. 

As a professional who has worked extensively 
with youth and in planning services for youth in 
the Correctional field (12 years), Education field 
(6 years) and Mental Health field (3 years), I was 
completely baffled by your reference to “hun¬ 
dreds of studies” which would support and 
encourage H.R.’s proposal that girls and boys 
be allowed to sleep In the same dorms, etc. I 
contacted some of my colleagues and they too 
were surprised and puzzled by your assertion 
and seriously questioned the validity of the 
statements you made in your response. 

i am confident that Canadian Camping is a 
reputable organization and that you are able to 
substantiate the claims you made as Editor. I am 
therefore requesting that you make available 
the studies you refer to in your response. Your 
studies no doubt make reference to the short 
time most children will be in contact with each 
other (7 to 10 days for most camps), the varied 
ethnic, religious and cultural backgrounds of 
many campers, the difficulties and problems 
experienced by early sexual involvement (this 
could be expected under the circumstances 
you propose), etc., etc. 

A.B. Thiessen, Winnipeg, Manitoba 

/ am not exactly sure what your precise con¬ 
cerns are with regard to this very broad category 
of girls and boys “living" together, but let me 
begin by expanding on Harry Rokkos’ letter to 
the editor: 

His concern was over the ignorance girls and 
boys have with respect to knowledge of each 
other’s bodies and he proposed shared accom¬ 
modations as a much healthier ideal. I cannot 
disagree with this! He also suggested that we, 
as adults, subject children to our hang-ups; this 
is also undeniably true and the mere fact that 
you have reacted as you have is verification of 


Mr. Rokkos’ claim. Witness the way society has 
traditionally reacted where children are invol¬ 
ved: Dr. Mary Calderone, founder of SIECUS 
(Sex Information and Education Council of the 
United States) relates this incident: “When I was 
about eight years old, a teenage gardener who 
worked for my father, exposed himself to me. He 
didn’t touch me, he did me no harm at all. What 
did harm me was my father’s reaction. Crying, he 
threw himself on his knees in front of me, wailing 
that I had lost my innocence. I didn’t even know 
what he was talking about. With a simple, 
rational approach I probably wouldn’t have 
remembered it - instead, I recall having felt dirty, 
guilty and frightened.’’ It is indeed a common 
occurrence for parents and/or leaders to pro¬ 
ject their own hang-ups, anxieties and fears on 
children where an emotional reaction is taking 
place, not a rational or logical one. This is 
especially true in the arena of sexual develop¬ 
ment where kids’queries are stifled, denied and 
repressed. 

Mr. Rokkos is actually factually correct in 
asserting that “children would undoubtedly 
have little trouble with this set-up” (that is, 
shared accommodations). At Humber College in 
Toronto, for example, their progressive daycare 
programme has two, three and four-year old 
boys and girls who SHARE the same washroom 
facilities. Hundreds of students have observed 
the healthy learning and discovery process that 
goes on from observing behind two-way mirrors. 
Children do grow up fascinated, curious, want¬ 
ing to explore, and the more we deny and forbid, 
the more we make them into adults who are 
“curiouser and curiouserWith a sensitive and 
caring staff, these children are growing up with 
a healthy respect and regard for the human 
body AND male and female differences. 

Most universities today have coed dorms, 
where a few years back the living accommoda¬ 
tions were strictly male or female. The society, in 
this regard, is changing in a more positive, realis¬ 
tic, child-health orientation with respect to 
nakedness. Dr. Alex Comfort states “It’s too bad 
that we are taught to be ashamed of the naked 
body. Being naked both feels good and looks 
good - in fact, even ugly people often look 
better, not worse, with no clothes on. Many 
adults now walk around naked at home and 
don’t hide behind towels. This helps children to 
know what adult bodies look like ...in our 
lifetime people will probably stop making such a 
fuss over nakedness.” (The Facts of Love, Dr. 
Alex Comfort, Crown Publishers, New York, 
1979.) 

Doug Jackson of the National Film Board 
made a documentary three years ago entitled 
“Why Men Rape”. If you missed it, you can 
purchase the book by the same title, authored 
by Levine and Koening (MacMillan of Canada). 
The most chilling, salient characteristic of all ten 
convicted rapists was their extreme lack of 
sexual knowlede, extreme ignorance of sexual 
function and extreme absence of having viewed 
naked bodies as they grew up. Segregation and 
repression with regard to sexuality keep surfac¬ 
ing in adults through the most unhealthy and 


distorted behaviours, as psychologists keep 
telling us. 

Also, if you would reflect for a moment, 
common sense would indicate that close to 90% 
of the world’s population from the beginning of 
time to the present day has lived communally. 
Our society is, in fact, the historical and statis¬ 
tical anomaly! Most kids in the world do see 
boys and girls and men and women naked; to go 
even further, most children also witness their 
parents’ or other tribal members’ lovemaking. 
It’s hard to be discreet when ten people share a 
one-room hut! It’s easy in our culture to think it’s 
“normal" for boys and girls to be reared in 
isolation simply because Sally has her own bed¬ 
room, Billy has his own bedroom and mommy 
and daddy have their own private bathroom off 
their bedroom, etc. The clear reality is that most 
people in the world live as Mr. Rokkos suggests 
as an ideal and most cultures don’t have the 
sex-related problems that we do in North 
America (approximately 10,000 sex therapy 
clinics). 

Please start by reading Man and Woman , Boy 
and Girl by Dr. John Money. It’s considered the 
gender bible in its field (Mentor Press, 1972). 

The following references will contain well 
over 300 studies which document and validate 
the points made in our response. We've taken 
the time to list them for you; we hope that you 
will take the time to read them because this is a 
very important area for leaders, counsellors and 
Directors. And please share them with your 
colleagues! 

Selected References: 

Byrne, D., and Byrne, L. Exploring Human Sex¬ 
uality. Harper & Row, 1977. 

Castleman, Michael. Sexual Solutions. Simon <& 
Schuster, 1980. 

Crooks, R. & Baur, K. Our Sexuality. Benjamin/ 
Cummings, 1983. 

De Martino, M.F. Sexual Behaviour and Person¬ 
ality Characteristics. Grove Press, 1966. 
Diamond, M. and Karen, A. Sexual Decisions. 
Little Brown, 1980. 

Ellis, A. Sex Without Guilt. Hillman Periodicals, 
1959. 

Ellis, A. and Aborbanel, A. Encyclopedia of 
Sexual Behaviour. Hawthorn Books, 1967. 

Hyde, J. Shibley. Understanding Human Sexual¬ 
ity. McGraw-Hill, 1979. 

Jones, K; Shainberg, L; and Byer, C. Sex and 
People. Harper & Row, 1977. 

Luria, Z and Rose, M. Psychology of Human 
Sexuality. Wiley, 1979. 

Masters, Johnson and Kolodney. Human Sex¬ 
uality. Little, Brown, 1982. 

McCarry, James. Sexual Myths and Falacies. 
Van Nostrand Reinhold, 1971. 

Money, J. Sex Research: New Developments. 
Holt, Rinehart & Winston, 1965. 

Money, J. and Eberhardt, A. Man & Woman , Boy 
& Girl. Mentor Press, 1972. 

Money, J. Sexual Signatures. Little, Brown, 1977. 
Rathus, Spencer. Human Sexuality. Holt, Rine¬ 
hart & Winston, 1983. 

Schuly, D. Human Sexuality. Prentice-Hall, 1979. 


19 



Canadian camping association 
association dcs camps da Canada 


•asko 


i - ,.-.1! 

*»,.. ■ 


1C; Of 


SUITE 2 1806 AVENUE ROAD 
TORONTO ONTARIO MSM 321 


VOL 36, NO. 1 
SPRING 1984 
ISSN 008-3119 


MARCH 

BASKETBALL 

MONTH 



MARS 
MO IS DE 
3ASKETBAL 



1785 

CAMP R 1 CHIL 0 ACA 

Mk. X, MRS. W. J. tiArtCOCK 

KETTLEHY ON 

LOG 1J0 



Canada 


Jeunesse en forme Canada 

un programme de tests de condition physique 
pour les jeunes de 7 a 17 ans 

Pourquoi participer a 
Jeunesse en forme Canada? 


• Facile a administrer 

• Minimum d'equipement necessaire 

• Normes de performance nationales 
utilisees a des fins de comparaison 

• Prix 

-excellence (ecusson et certificat), 
ecussons or, argent et bronze 

-carte d’identite format porte- 
monnaie 

-Certificat de participation a 
chacun des groupes qui participe 
au programme 

• Gratuit! 

-le programme, les tests et les prix 
sont tous gratuits 

Vous voulez en savoir davantage? 

• Ecrivez a: Jeunesse en forme Canada 

365-ouest avenue Laurier 
Ottawa (Ontario)' 

K1A 0X6 



Canada 


Canada Fitness Award 

a fitness testing program for youth 
7 to 17 years 

Why participate in the 
Canada Fitness Award? 

• Easy to administer 

• Little equipment needed 

• National Performance Standards for 
comparison 

• Awards 

-excellence (crest and certificate), 
gold, silver, bronze crests 
-wallet-size I.D. card 
-Certificate of Participation to each 
youth group using program 

• Free! 

-all program, testing and award 
materials are free of charge 

Want more information? 

• Write to: Canada Fitness Award 

365 Laurier Ave. W. 

Ottawa, Ontario 
K1A 0X6 


If 


Gouvernement du Canada Government of Canada 

Condition physique et Sport amateur Fitness and Amateur Sport 


If 


Government of Canada 
Fitness and Amateur Sport 


Gouvernement du Canada 
Condition physique et Sport amateur 


20 







