Canadian 

CQIYipiftQ 


Official Publication 
Publication Officielle 

102 Eglinton Are., E., Suite 203 


The Canadian Camping Association 
L•Association dee Camps du Quebec 

Toronto, Ontario M4P 1E1 


Vol. 28 
No. 4 

October 1976 


The format might be different.*• but 
the intent is still the same..', to keep 
those involved in the camping profes¬ 
sion in Canada up to date and informed. 
Cost 8 hare forced us to look carefully 
at ourselves (probably a very good 
thing from time to time)... and so the 
Camping Association hopes that this is¬ 
sue in its present form will have ap¬ 
peal and be of interest to everyone. 
Please let us know your thoughts...., 
give us your commenta.... and support 
your Association with articles. 


NEWS 


AND VIEWS 


AOflOSS CANADA 


The British Columbia Association has 
been given some money) The money was 
found through a generous foundation 
grant, and is being used to hire a full 
time field Co-ordinator, in the person 
o f Allan Uhidden. We we loo me Allan to 
the camping field in Canada, confident 
that his specific responsibilities in 
B.C. will surely have very positive ef¬ 
fects in other parts of our country. 
Allan '8 first task will be to co-ordin¬ 
ates a B.C. priority... namely, to work 
with Provincial Health Authorities in 
revising the Health Act to include year 
round and family camping. 


Three Provincial Associations will 
be boating members of the C.C.A. Board 
of Directors. The first will be in 
Saskatoon, November 3th and 6 th, fol¬ 
lowing meetings of the Board in that 
city. Highlights of the Saskatchewan 
Conference, organized by Marg Fezderic 
and a very active committee will bei 
Training programmes for leaders; Tech¬ 
niques for evaluating camp programme; 
Motivating staff; Clothing, cold wea¬ 
ther attitudes and survival kits; Bud¬ 
gets and budget controls; Inter-camp 
radio communications; Promoting camps 
in the wintertime; Staff communication 
skills; Acclimatisation; developin, 
Board of Directors; amd Interview 
techniques. 



SV , 

J-' ' 


~ The Ontario Camping Association will 
be responsible for organizing a Confer¬ 
ence in Sauit St. Marie, January 19 - 23 , 
and the final meeting of the present 
Board will be in Sd<wi®d» B.C. around 
the end of April. While in these vari¬ 
ous centres, members of the Board will 
$• providing resource material for mem¬ 
bers of eoch of the Associations. 



The Newfo u ndl and Association is ex¬ 
cited about an upcoming meeting of cam¬ 
ping and outdoor enthusiasts*... led by 
those leaders from that Province who 
attended the C.C.A. Woodsmanship School 
this summer. Nice to see "The Word" 
being spread throughout the Country) 













News and Views (cont.) 


Provincial Camping Associations 


Ontario is pleased with the response 
it is getting to their weekend workshop, 
October 29-31» for Directors and Senior 
Staff. The topic for this year's meeting 
in '^Jo-day's Child" ... Their neAds and 
Oar,needs. A report of this meeting will 
be available to C.C.A. members through 
"Canadian Camping". 

Two more conferences of note... this 
time in Alberta. The Annual Alberta 
Camping Association Seminar will take 
place February 5, 4, and 5, and soon af¬ 
ter this, the Alberta Teachers Association 
Outdoor Blueation Council Conference will 
be held. 

The University of Calgary is yet an¬ 
other institution in which the Faculty 
of Physical Education has a programme 
which allows a student to specialize in 
Outdoor Education. If you are interes¬ 
ted in more information, Dr. George 
Kinnear is the contact person. 

The Provincial Board of the Quebec 
Camping Association is pleased to an¬ 
nounce the appointment of Mr. Raymond 
Hade as Executive Director of the ACQ- 
QCA. Raymond, who replaces Gil Cardi¬ 
nal, has extensive camping experience in 
his Province and should be well quali¬ 
fied to take a very active role in Que¬ 
bec, and indeed in Canadian camping. 

Other good news from Quebec..., The 
High Commission of Leisure and Sports 
has provided funds to ACQ-QCA so that 
a full time person may be hired to set 
up-provancial- fraining Iprogrammes -in?* - 

camping. 

An important meeting of the New Bruns¬ 
wick Association will be held just about 
the same time as the publication of this 
issue of the Magazine.•• It's a Camp 
Administrators VOrkshop, being held in 
Bathurst, October 15-17* (Bi-lingual 
as welliil) Organizers are Geraldine 
LeBel, Rene Gagnon, Tim Easley, and of 
course, Philip Giberson. One interesting 
comment from New Brunswick... Hebertisme 
continues to grow in many camps..• due to 
the tremendous influence of Claude Cousi- 
neau's book on the subject. 


British Columbia Camping Association 
John Hasell, President 
4640 Clovelly walk 
West Vancouver, B.C. V?tf 1H4 

Alberta Camping Association 
Jim McVeigh, President 
c/o Y.M.C.A., 332 6th Avenue 
Calgary, Alberta T2P 2G5 

Saskatchewan Camping Association 
John Boutin, President 
Box 823 

Regina, Saskatchewan 

.Manitoba Camping- Association - -- 
Punch Jackson, President 
501 Vaughan Street 
Winnipeg, Manitoba R3B 2N7 

Ontario Camping Association 
Kirk Wipper, President 
102 Eglinton Ave., E. Suite 205 
Toronto, Ontario M4P 1E1 

Quebec Camping Association, Inc. (iiig.) 
Derek Walsh, President 
2233 Belgrave Avenue 
Montreal, Quebec H4A 2L9 

Association des Camps du Quebec, Inc. 
Robert Maisonneuve, President 
1415 ©st, rue Jarry 
Montreal, Quebec H2E 2Z7 

ACQ-QCA Provincial Board 
v?.W* McCarthy, President 
1415 esrt, .rue J^iy 
Montreal, Quebec 'H2Ef 2Z7 

New Brunswick Camping Association 
Philip Giberson, President 
P.0. Box 573 

Fredericton, New Brunswick 

Noya Scotia Camping Association 
George Matthews, President - 
Box 696 

Halifax, Nova Scotia 

Newfoundland and Labrador Camping Asso. 

Barbara Taylor, President 

P.0. Box 4188 

St. John's, Nfld. Aid 5Z7 


2 




HINTS AND SUGGESTIONS fOR "CLOSING UP" YOUR CAMP 




by Eanswythe Flynn 


BLANKETS - cupboards lined with metal or 
wire window screening, or trunks securely 
fastened (tin trunks are excellent), are 
the only places to keep blankets, pillows, 
linens, washable rugs, mats, woolens 
and clothing* 

CANNED GOODS - always store in the city 
if there is no warn room available in 
the North country* Never use after 
freezing. As a rule* however, tins - • 
burst on freezing. 


FIRE EXTINGUISHERS - should be thorough¬ 
ly checked and referred to fire safe¬ 
ty firms for storage and re-charging. 

FLASHLIGHTS - the cases remain, but 
batteries must be removed. Check bulbs 
in the spring. 

GASOLINE, COAL OIL OR STOVE OIL - may 
be left stored in a place approved by 
the Fire Marshall - a place removed 
from other storage items. 


CANOES - should be stored keel-up, after 
being thoroughly cleaned, washed inside 
and dried. Support at bow and stem 
thwarts to prevent warping. Check for 
repairs in the fall. If necessary have 
heavy repairs done by experts in the 
district during winter. 



CABINS - if cabins....and other buildings 
axe constructed on concrete pads and 
blocks, they should be thoroughly cheeked 
each spring. Heavy frosts shift the 
blocks, a situation that can twist and 
tilt the structures to a dangerous posi¬ 
tion. In any building where long spans 
occur, temporary studs (logs) should be 
inserted between floor beams to provide 
support against heavy snow loads. These 
can be quickly knocked out in the spring. 
Arrangements should be made with a local 1 
caretaker to remove exceptional roof * 
snow loads during the winter months. 


CHJMNET- cover the chimney with screening 
to keep out birds and bats. 


DIVING BOARDS - store flat, indoors. 


DOCKS - get sound advice for each type of 
dock. Store in a protected area away 
from the prevailing winds, until after 
ice break-up. 


O EAVESTROUGHING - should be cleaned regu¬ 

larly in the fall. Accumulations of 
leaves and evergreen needles can be the 
cause of an increase in roof leaks and 
deterioration. 


HOLES - look for the tiniest crack or 
hole in woodwork, walls or floors. 

Fill with putty or plaster or paris 
mixed with cayenne pepper or mustard 
(powdered). 

HOT VATER BOTTLES - may be left hanging 
upside down, the stopper tied with 
a length of cord to the top loop of 
the bottle. 

LIQUIDS - vinegars will survive, pro¬ 
viding the bottles are only two-thirds 
full. Honey will also survive low 
temperatures for years. However, all 
other liquids including juices, soft 
drinks, syrups, flavourings, concen¬ 
trates should be removed to warm 
storage places or returned to the city. 

MATTRESSES - should be left on beds, 
sprinkled generously with naphtha 
flakes and cedar fronds or powdered 
camphor. As heat causing combustion 
forms in the center of a stack of 
piled mattresses, our Fire Department 
advisors tell us never to stack them 
for storage, whether it be in the 
summer or the winter. 

MEDICAL SUPPLIES - all drugs should be 
carefully examined to determine 
whether or not there is an expiry 
date. If in doubt, check with your 
local pharmacist. Throw out all 
drugs whose dates have expired. All 
medications, drugs and pills 
especially liquids should be re- 


3 




Hints and Suggestions (cont*) 

turned, to the oity. Pills and tablets 
deteriorate and crumble# Adhesive per¬ 
ishes* Absorbent cotton and gauze make 
great homes for mice* 

MICE - mice and squirrels can cause havoo 
and every precaustion should be taken to 
discourage their presence. They do not 
like the strong odours of naphtha flakes, 
spices, red and black pepper, moth balls, 
cedar branches, oil of cedar or citronella. 
Sprinkle these on the floors* Naphtha 
flakes and cedar beughs can go on the 
mattresses* Also sprinkle chloride of 
lime powder over the cabin floors only, 
Mice won’t walk on iti In the spring, 
merely wash out the cabins with clear hot 
water and you have a good disinfectant* 

MOTORS AND MOTOR BOATS - follow the in¬ 
struction's of the manufacturer. 

OFFICE SUPPLIES - envelopes, packaged or 
not, will automatically seal. Letterhead 
and copy papers can stay if they are flat 
and dry, with a weight or a large book 
covering the 8 X 10 area. Marking pens, 
felt pens, Scriptd or Bak pens deterio¬ 
rate. Bottled inks and Scotch Tape sur¬ 
vive* Stamp pads need only re-inking for 
the new season. Craft paper, newsprint,- 
bristol board, and construction paper must 
be stored flat on the floor or table top, 
in a mouse proof room, with the comers 
weighted down to prevent curling. 

PAINTS - store in a warm building or 
bring t hem to the city; this includes 
varnish, shellac, solignum, and tubes of 
artists-painti _ ; „' . 

PAINT BRUSHES - thoroughly clean with one 
of the new instant cleaners immediately 
after use. There is no hope once they 
have hardened, frozen and melted. Soak 
in turpentine or varsol, rinse in deter¬ 
gent, then clear warn water. Hang by a 
string to dry in the sun. Failing that, 
try Tri-Sodium Phosphate or hot vinegar, 
rinse in detergent suds and follow the 
above drying procedure. Vrap in newspa¬ 
per for storage. 

PIANO - a mildly warn room with an even 
temperature makes an ideal storage place; 
but an even temperature, cold or warm is 
the basic need. It is surprising to find 


that they survive severe cold. Move the 
instrument from an outside wall, if pos¬ 
sible, and the secret is never cover a 
piano. Blankets or any other covering 
hold dampness to ruin strings, felts 
and wood. A cup of powdered camphor 
will discourage mice. 

PIT TOILETS - spread fire place ashes 
to a thickness of one or two inches on 
the "mass". This does a great job 
breaking down and eliminating odour. 

PROPANE - turn off taps ©f outdoor tanks 
which can be left as they are during the 
winter. 

RAGS - those used for paint, oils or 
gas must be taken to the local garbage 
dump. If put in the incinerator, oily 
rags form one of the greatest fire ha¬ 
zards. 

ROW BOATS - store keel up, thoroughly 
dried, with a piece of 4. X 4 or cord- 
wood under bow and stem to prevent 
warping. 

RUGS - remove them from the floor. Mice 
tear them apart. Threads and tufts form 
a perfect interior for mice nests. 

SADDLES AND LEATHER GOODS - all leather 
goods should be well saddle soaped be¬ 
fore hanging. Never use floor wax or 
liquid furniture wax. Proppert’s and 
Goddard’8 Saddle Soaps are best. 

SAIL BOATS - throughly clean and dry out 
bottoms. Boats shauld be turned, upside 
down and rested evenly on stringers; 
placed at the coaming, the bow and the 
stem. Masts should be placed on three 
levelled supports to rest evenly and to 
prevent warping. 

SMALL MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS - .should be 
taken to the city if heated accomodation 
is not available 

STAPLES, DEI - flour, sugar, powdered 
milk, dry cereals, potatoe flakes, and 
dehydrated vegetables may be stored in 
tightly sealed pails or in a heavy plas¬ 
tic garbage pail, used for this purpose 
only. 

(cont. on back page) 


O 


b 


0 



Reg Black stock vrites about Don Smith 

Don Smith was at home in the wilder* 
ness, whether it was the bush and lake 
country, the plains, or the mountains. 

He loved them all, and what is more, he 
taught hundreds of others the skills and 
attitudes so that they, too, could find 
the satisfaction and pleasures of cam* 
ping and tripping in and over them. 

Organized camping, the Cubs and 
Scouts, the YKCA-YW3A and Church Camps 
got the benfit of his leadership and 
teaching. Don was very active in the 
Alberta Camping Association and through 
it, in the Canadian Association of which 
he was President 1965 - 1965 * He recog¬ 
nized the need for good, well-trained 
staff for all kinds of camps. He was 
one of the first people to establish 
courses in camping at the university 
level 

From his own experiences he knew that 
camping need not be confined to the sum¬ 
mer months. School children could have 
resident outdoor education experiences 
during the school year. This led to the 
establishment of university courses for 
teachers-in-training which included prac¬ 
tical experiences in tripping and winter 
camping. He joined others across the 
country who were like-minded, to set up 
the outdoor education committees in the 
various camping associations and the 
C. C. A. 

Don was one of that small group of 
educators, spread across the country, 
who toolr up from the pioneer leaders— , • 
who looked upon camping as a compliment 
tary part of the education of children. 

He knew that camping provides vivid 
learning experiences; that the risk¬ 
laden adventure is a strong motivator 
to sharpen skills; and that stressful 
activities enhance self-knowledge and 
self confidence. 

.?The camp setting and group living it 
made possible, were major values he 
sought for all from the csmping experi¬ 
ence. He urged educators to add out¬ 
door education to the curriculum. Lea¬ 
dership preparation for it was added to 
courses at colleges of education. 


This quiet man with his dry wit and 
quick smile, has left a lot of blazes 
on the trails for us to follow*• Don’s 
vigorous, sustained effort to extend 
camping to more and more people set us 
an example. He recognized that urban 
living cuts us off from the earth where, 
our roots are, and from which we draw 
so much "big medicine". 

He had a great reverence for all of 
life, especially people. He urged us 
all to seek out the wonder and the awe 
and the beauty which are to be found in 
nature. All his life he sought to have 
others„find this beauty .and share it, 
on the trails and around the camp-fires. 

We will all miss Don Smith. His 
place at the trail fire and the council 
fire in many places will be vacant. But 
we will recall his tall tales and fabu¬ 
lous exaggerations. Mostly our hearts 
will be warmed again by our memories 
of a great companion on the trails. 

He left the campsite better than he 
found it and us better campers from our 
associations with him. 


KANAWA INTERNATIONAL MUSEUM OF 

- canoes, mm grggisG craft 

Following extensive negotiation 
with this institution and the Museum of 
American Indian-Heye Foundation, ten 
kayaks, twelve dug-outs, eleven .bark 
canoe's" and "eleven miscellaneous canoes ’ 
were made available to the Kanawa Foun¬ 
dation, on the understanding that spe¬ 
cial care would be taken to preserve, 
restore and display the collection. 

This has expanded the Kanawa collec¬ 
tion to three hundred or more, and has 
necessitated expansion of the log 
house used for display. 

A Log Construction School under the 
tutelage of Alan Mackie of Prince 
George, B.C. and Paul McNab of Ignace, 
Ontario resulted in excellent progress • 

continued on page 7 


5 



To-day's Records are To-morrow 1 s Archives 
Sy Adele fibbs 

In 1967 official collecting and sor¬ 
ting of camping records was started by a 
small group, all of whom are still in¬ 
volved, and now there are concerned peo¬ 
ple in every provincial association, Ve 
have been fortunate in finding a home for 
our Canadian Camping Archives at Trent 
University in Peterborough. Their De¬ 
partment of Canadian Studies is very sup¬ 
portive of our efforts. You should see 
its location...• every window looks out 
on the Otonabee River with its ever chan¬ 
ging moods.• once used by Indians and 
explorers to penetrate the depth of our 
forests. 

— - " -v * 

Since the Canadian Camping Archives 
Committee was established in 1975> made 
up of representatives from each province, 
the biggest thrust has come from the first 
Geneva Park Conference when all the con¬ 
tributions to the media room were later 
turned over to the Archives. Following 
that, the Board of the C.C.A. met in 
Peterbo.ro ugh and had a first hand look 
at the collection. This October the 
Society of Camp Directors is holding 
its semi-annual meeting at the Univer¬ 
sity, one of the purposes of the mee¬ 
ting is to explore the Archives. 

The Archives at Trent are National, 
and I hope each province has made a good 
start on storing their own papers in a 
systematic fashion, including all commit¬ 
tee reports and files representing every 
camp. At the Quebec Board meeting last 
spring-a-long list of camp pioneers was 
drawn up and ' agreement was reached by the 
Provincial Presidents that their associa¬ 
tions would start taping oral biographies 
of those people. It is an arduous and 
costly task, but well worth the effort, 
and it must be done NOWJ The Trent 
Archivist will make a copy and return 
the original. 

The firsthand very ..valuable-contri¬ 
bution of papers came from F.M. Van Wag¬ 
ner who was C.C.A. President 1958-60. 

From these papers we have many records of 
the early days of our Association, but we 
need more. Other President's papers 
have been promised, but few have arrived 
at the archives so far. Such national 


papers belong at Trent. We'll pay the . 
cost of delivery, and I hope that each 
provincial archivist will help by lo¬ 
cating all pertinent papers and sending 
them on to* Mr Kenneth Johnson, Archi¬ 
vist, Trent University, Peterborough* 
Ontario K9l 7B8 


THE WOODSMANSHIF INSTRUCTOR SCHOOL 

Perhaps more properly the title 
should be " land pusuits leadership 
school"J The interpretations asso¬ 
ciated with the word woodsmanship have 
been somewhat misleading in the early — 
stages of the project's development. 

Following two experimental schools 
held in Ontario, the idea was offered 
as a National programme in which dele¬ 
gates from each province were brought 
together with a view to transplanting 
the concept to other regions. One 
purpose of the National School, then, 
was to inspire a group of leaders who 
would conduct such programmes in their 
own areas. 

The idea emerged as the result of 
a long caredr in the National Canoe 
Instructor Schools where it became ob¬ 
vious that attention should be paid to 
the consequences of canoe travel. In 
short, it becomes the responsibility 
of wilderness travellers to be fully 
aware of the consequenoes ot such en¬ 
counters for the natural environment. 
Knowing what these are should have a 
bearing on a more positive approach to 
the art of communicating such skills 
and pursuits to other people. Some 
practical opportunities were provided 
in order to cultivate various leader¬ 
ship styles. Finally, a strong "ethic 
of the land" theme persisted through¬ 
out in. order to help the candidates to 
be sensitive to ways in which the prin¬ 
ciple of "wise use without abuse" could 
be honestly respected. This element 
was fundamental to the purpose of the 
school. 

With key pepple from across the 
nation the school was bound to be a 


6 




very attractive project. The ideas and 
skills that were exchanged in the- pro¬ 
cess captured the imagination ,of both 
instructors and students. To be sure, 
a follow up with one more encounter of 
the nature indicated would help signi¬ 
ficantly to assure the transplant. 

If assistance funding can be ar¬ 
ranged, a summary will be produced. The 
info mat ion shared at the school must be 
made available to outdoor leaders across 
the nation. 


THE NATIONAL CANOE INSTRUCTOR SCHOOLS 

The National School system con¬ 
tinued to thrive with minor adjust¬ 
ments in the 1976 season. Introduction 
of a summer school at the University of 
Ottawa marks the most significant inno¬ 
vation for the current season. This 
was done to accommodate candidates who 
found it impossible to attend the June 
offerings. 

Some disparity appears to exist 
across the nation in the demand that is 
indicated in different regions. In On¬ 
tario, for example, there are never 
enough places for the number of appli¬ 
cations submitted, while in Western 
Canada the situation reveals a balance 
between supply and demand for courses. 

The availability of instructors 
for the National Schools has been more - 
and more encouraging. It was the hope 
of the founders that ultimately this 
would be the case. 

Some significant possiblities are 
emerging for future schools. Precourse 
skill workshops have been suggested so 
that candidates can concentrate more on 
the communication, teaching, instructing 
and learning side of the programme. Con¬ 
sideration of weekend sections of the to¬ 
tal course seems reasonable to allow tea¬ 
chers and others who cannot be released 
for a 12 day period to take the course. 
Such a system would also allow candidates 
to upgrade their standings from assistant 


to full instructor. In short, cre¬ 
dit could be given for each of five 
sections with requirements related to 
each one. 

With the introduction of the new 
levels of achievement currently being 
proposed through the Canadian Recrea¬ 
tional Canoeing Association, the Na¬ 
tional Schools will make some content 
adjustments. At the same time some 
alteration in the priorities within the 
National Schools appears desirable. 

In addition, the production of new ma¬ 
terials to accommodate these adjust¬ 
ments also stands on the threshold. 

In the interim, it is hoped that those 
who represent canoe interests in 
Canada will co-operate in the steps 
being taken to ensure that the best 
possible results accrue for paddlers 
everywhere 1 


Kanawa Museum (continued from p.5) 


on the extention, with wide student in¬ 
terest in this type of building con¬ 
struction, so soon becoming, a lost art. 
The school was well attended, the par** 
ticipants making a generous contribution 
to the raising of the building. 

Public events sponsored by the 
Kanawa Museum inoluded a journey to the 
Olympics in Voyageur costume in the 
36 ft. Montreal Canoe; provision of 
the Montreal Canoe for the French 
Festival held at Detroit as part of 
the U.S.A. Bi-centennial Celebrations; 
participation in the Barrie-Orilla- 
Kempenfeldt Bay Festival with a display 
of historic canoes and kayaks, with 
involvement of both Montreal and the 
North canoes with paddlers in costume. 

The Kanawa Museum is the only 
one of its kind in the world. 


7 



A WILDERNESS DILEMMA 

A discussion arose at the September 
O.C.A. Board Meeting in which concern 
was to iced regarding the number of acci¬ 
dents occurring in adventurous outdoor 
activities) this, because participants 
are not properly prepared by those who 
offer such programmes. It was felt that 
such a situation is grossly unfair to 
allow individuals or groups to engage 
in hazardous pursuits without careful 
examination of their current qualifica¬ 
tions. 

A young man of twenty-five recent¬ 
ly perished on a western river when his 
canoe cagsised. The Package Tour in 
which he invested, included a flight to 
the Vest and a run down a river to a 
rendezvous spot. He was given a helmet 
and a water-ski belt and sent on his way 
by canoe with a friend, but no second 
canoe to accompany the pair in strange 
country. 

The trauma created by this tragedy 
was extraordinary. But the further tra¬ 
gedy is that this is not a single or iso¬ 
lated occurence. The time has come, 
surely, when those who give leadership 
in the out-of-doors will take a stand to 
ensure proper preparation and supervi¬ 
sion of those who seek the benefits of 
out-door encounters. Overall, the out¬ 
door movement is a highly desirable one 
which can contribute much to the develop¬ 
ment of the nation. However, mismanage¬ 


ment at this crucial stage of develop¬ 
ment may lead to unfortunate negative 
results, if auch wilderness treks and 
trips are not controlled intelligently 
in the very near future. 


Hints for "dosing" (cont. from p. 4) 


TOOLS - oil lightly and store, wrapped 
in cloth. 

VASHING MACHINES - drain and check the 
hose from the pump. Place it downwards 
in a position so that it can be com¬ 
pletely emptied. Check under trays for 
any water remaining. If in doubt, call 
in the plumber, 

WATER SYSTB1 - drain entire system 
thoroughly, particularly storage tanks. 
If there is no local man who can do the 
work it is worth the cost to bring in a 
plumber. 

WAX AND OILS - floor wax, linseed oil, 
machine oils, Hippo oil and other 
cleaning oils may remain at the camp. 

WINDOWS - cover or camouflage them with 
a blanket, tarp, canvas or even news¬ 
paper if necessary. Grouse, partridge 
and otherbirds will fly through clear 
glass. 


6TT£-800 NSST 


T3TT JfrK otxeqno ‘oqnoxox 
£03 # *3 ennaA? woqtrpfSK 20T 
nop t®T 0o8S Y StrpdoBj) totpbubo 






