Canadian 

camping 




OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 
L’ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU CANADA — PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 

SUITE 2. 1806 AVENUE ROAD • TORONTO. ONTARIO M5M 321 Vol . 32 No. 1 

telephone (416) 781-4717 February 1980 


1 










PYC 




The f ollowing°3a teS ha^e been' Changed,' a . • :d. AMERICAN CAME ASSOCIATION 

please mgrk^thefts oh your calendar3al* -ter: _ , „ \ , . 

In 1980,-.the American Canoe Association 

The A.C.Q-. will •hold 1 its "Serna ine des in 11 celebrate its 100th Anniversay. 

Camps " frbftPM ar ctf-'12 to 131 1980. Invitation is extended to participate in 

the "Second Call" - a canoe festival at 
Clayton,'K.Y.oandRSugar Island, out: 
from Gananoque, •Qnt., on Sat. August, 9 +• 

A. -14. ' I 

There will be rates, demonstrations and 

gatherings of antique canoes, .-anoes. 


The C.C.A-. has changed the place of its 
next Executive .Meeting. , from Halifax on 
February 17 to Montreal on March 13-14. 


in c. 9 


ia 


The Winter 
tute 


Skills Ir.sti - 


at Camp Tawingo from For further information contact Wat Wells, 


Wednesday, March 12 to Monday, March 17, 65 Highland . Massena, N.Y. 13662. 
not in February as"indicated in the‘Dec. Details also available, Clayton Chamber of 
issue ofi^CaftadiaHC'Campihg n —*--r 




-x- •x--x--x--x--x--x--x- * 


C.C.A. COHXTTTFF ChAItMMW 
! hhd : Ora 1 i Histarir_ _ 


Hiss Helen Stewart 
Education. 


Mrs. Linda Arnoldt 
Finance 


mold 


Mr. Wayne'Perkins, Treasurer '' 
Leadership Development 

Miss Jeaif-Funk 
C onstitiitlonal Review 

Mr. Jack Pearse, Immediate Past Pres. 


ncerns 


Mr. Murray- Wickwire 
French Language 

Abbe Eosaire Corbin 
Legislation . 

Mr. Derek Walsh, Vice-Pres. 
Liaison with National.Agencies 


Mr. Larry Bagnell 
Nominations 


Mr. Jack Pearse. Immediate Past Pres. 
Publications 

Mr. Fred Okada 
Skill Schools 


Mr. LaVerne Jantz 

Public Relations and Promotion 


Mr. Derek Walsh, Vice-Pres. 


Commerce 




C.C.A. PROJECT CHAIRMEN 

National and International Conferences 

Mr. John Latimer 
Woodsma ship 

Mr. Kirk ’ Wipp’er 
Newsletter 


>er 


ce_ 


Mr. Briar; Blackstock 


C.C.A. TASK FORCE CHAIRMEN 


Immigration 


Mr. Barryhowes 
Membership 


Mrs. Shan’ley Parkinson 
Recreation Canada 


:xn 


Mr. Ron Johnstone 
Standards -nr 


Mr. Peter Van Wagner 




FOR RENT 


Property for rent - to clubs, community, 
religious, company or other groups-for 
adult, children, or family camping;- n 5 
acres, 3 lakes, large wharf, diving 
board and tower, playing field, build¬ 
ings, electricity, central water system, 
former boys' camp; weekly, monthly or > 
season: 70 miles from Montreal near 


LaChute, Quebec. Call (514) 697-6242. 


2 








STAFF MOTIVATORS by bruce Harris 



Sometime ago I had the privilege of leading a session at the Canadian 
Camping Association Conference at Geheva Park. The- topic was "Staff Hiring and 
How to Keep Good Staff." The participants were 35 experienced camp people from 
all regions of Canada. At the very beginning of the session I asked everyone to 
answer one questdohvf I: asked each person•to think back to their first year as a 
camp staff member, then to try to recall why they decided to return the second 
year-. Upon readihgrthe 35 responses it was evident that although worded in many 
'■ 4 different ways a common- theme was very dominant*.- They returned to camp because 

it was a satisfying experience, they:felt needed, they enjoyed the atmosphere - 
-the feelings of responsiblity. Out of 35eresponses, salary was only-,-mentioned 
■ cf- 1 once-.and as a--secondary reason. 

To you And me. for people who hire and direct the staff, it is paramount 
to understand.■ the reasons .why staff eome to camp is we! are' to develop and use 
wisely-the greatest camp resource we-have - the staff-i e-A good camping experi¬ 
ence for any individuhi i® affected more b yltfa e quality - of- the staff/- than any 
other factor. 

II i. ibis important to remember.that!staff, like, campers.* pome tp-camp for a 
worthwhile rewarding experience. It:ds- lonlike^-any. other part of'their lives, 
not like school which is obligatory -or like a permanent job that insures an 
expected living standard related'to!tie dollars earned. Earning dollars at 
different •stages may. become’a more important.;factor .but in essence it is always 
secondary. I will touch on this later. 

We must never fall into the trap that every staff- member comes to camp 
for the same, reasons. Reasons may over lap but are never identical. Gome 
staff come toe-camp because they are convinced the' job is important, some staff 
enjoy the recognition of the position, some come because it gives them satisfac¬ 
tion, they feel good that they are doing something for young people, some enjoy 
the environment of their peer group. Everyone comes for a reason and if these 

needs are net they will be happy at camp, will apply their talents and skill and 
do-an effective job. 

(cont. on page U ) 

_ _ 



n i er 
wi. Zy t 


ence llor 


i 







(cont. from page 3) 

It sounds a little clinical to say a staff member is at camp on the basis 
,r What is, in, it for me? n , but that 1 ^ where the motivation is,, n at n . . Hpman.^activity 
is generated to. fill needs.. The need-to nourish our bodies ,with food, .generally 
activates , activity. The need tp fulfill our inner self likewise generates^ activity. 

If, for instance^ etaff members have a need 1 to feel needed and have- come to 
camp ; for this reasbny it' is- important their reward is that they are aware that' - 
they ; are heeded as : part of -a group 1 or as ah individual. - The -director ver^' openly 
and honestly must- ; at some time during the r summer talk toi eahbf person 1 individually 
about'how the^ camp 'benefits in a positive way v froiif their imput'-arid how' it is ^ ° 
appreciated ;* ! If J r redbghiti : on is anbed,-* it is important -that they'bV told 
f r oift? of ^Others that"their Work : is lC Wbrthwhile and appreciated-^ - ‘ ro 

¥hen we begin to deal with meeting the needs and the reasons for motiva¬ 
tion, ;;it >is^ important;'^to -realize.) that j very few people: act .put of. onp, single mo¬ 
tivation f-r <in:cftot?i)nost people pome tro camp ; ca55.se> of. four. or, fivp n^.tivajtiprip 0 ; 
and therefore.-directors- must v 'he',, tuned into the .imiltiple -needs and motivating; p t. ; 
factors- ofkah "individual and ito-see that most; of. them- are root-intone way pr -en- .^^ 
o ther * . 'jo is o t?’i *i -i :- 1 o 

Rewarding or dealing with meeting the needs of an individual staff member 

may be as simple as a pat on the back or a few words of praise or as complicated 

.. 1' i ro;f: c }•:;*.-■ ■ rr, ax;..': r "'' L-:&r?>*e- 

as a designed recognition experience which may involve new programme scheduling. 

Whenever- dealing 1 'with Motivation : it is imperative' that^whatever bur Action's' 
are> they must be -Sincere, honest -'and open. False rewards"‘are -generally perceived 
as false. If a pat on the back or words of-'praise are given,' ib-bUst be-i'eally' 03 
felt as,spme-thipg...thaij they.'Want tp„dp. ; .. Any f arm of ,reward,^-praise, recognition 
etc. can be ; given, jto .the .poipt tha t it becomes a nuisance.. Motivation, muist. be . 10 ->. 
dealfb with, !; in. both /the. negative and positive .poles of ones .behavior. ... If, ,only->. 
positive^stejtements-are; made.bhey soon become.meaningless or irrelevant. . 

• T-Si dealing with motivation itmust- be part of ourselves , r to be most effec¬ 
tive it should be spontaneous,, warm and. on the spot. Whatever is offered- should: 

be offered because we are happy about .behavior not because we want someone to 

i. L , :i:/ ■' . "!. C;Ciiiv rv- '[■?:' ’ ;; --.ooerr 

work harder. _■ -.- r 

(cont. on page 8 )_ 








Executive Director 


As we prepare for the coming season, Camp Directors all over Canada are 
in the midst of recruiting staff and campers. In the next couple of issues 
"Canadian Camping" is pleased to present extracts from the Quebec Camping Asso¬ 
ciation’s Director Education Program. 


Ce programme "Formateurs-multiplicateurs" etait prepare par 1'Association 
des Camps du Quebec en fevrier 1976. Aetuellement, l’A.C.Q. present a leurs 
membres une serie de petits-cour" pour ameliorer leurs capacites eomme direc— 
teurs des camps. 

In this issue, the article will cover staff recruitment, selection and 
interview processes 5 next month, it will cover techniques to integrate/orient 
staff to your camp. 

The C.C.A. office has been busy sending many book orders across the coun¬ 
try. Our publications have been on view at provincial meetings from British 
Columbia to Ontario. If there are any topic areas which should be included in 
our publications, please let us know. We are here to serve you! 

Many times I've come across great articles in provincial newsletters. If 
each province can continue (or begin?) to include C.C.A. on their mailing list 
for a few copies of newsletters, conference programs, etc., "Canadian Camping" 
will be able to carry articles from all parts of the country. 

Pendant les prochaines mois, j'aurai 1'occasion de rendre visite a chaque 
association provinciale. C'est avec enthousiasme que j'attends de vous rencontrer. 


FORMATION 


! 

1. DEFINITION 





"Processus d'integration d’une personne d l'exercice 
d'une tache precise correspondent & sa personnalite 
et si ses aptitudes." 

2. ETAPES PRECEDANT L'INTEGRATION . 

2.1 Recrutement, 

Les directeurs de camp,selon leurs methodes,pro- 
cadent au recrutement en faisant connaitre en di¬ 
vers milieux les possibilites d'un travail dans 
un camp de vacances.Cette operation fait appel: 





(au verso) 



FORMATION 



- au personnel actuel 

- aux anciens du camp 

- au milieu scolaire,coll6gial,universitaire 

- & des facult§s plus sp£cialisees,recreolo- 
gie,education physique,psychologie,etc... 

- centre de main-d'oeuvre 

- au service offert par l’A.C.Q. 

- autres ressources 

,/ 2.2 Selection, 

Apr&s 1’operation "recrutement" le directeur de 
camp a 1’embarras du choix des candidate' 

C'est ordinairement £ la suite d'une entrevue 
que se fait la selection du personnel. 

Les crit&res sont etablis en fonction des besoins 
du camD. 

L* entrevue est un moment privilegie pour partager 
des attitudes et des sentiments. 



2.2.1 La preparation est import ante un formulaire 
est necessaire pour obtenir les renseignements 
utiles. 

age,experience de camp etc. (cf. feuille A.C.Q.) 

Le candidat pourrait avoir regu quelques informa¬ 
tions sur le camp. 

2.2.2 L'endroit de 1'entrevue est important,il doit §tre 

acceuillant,la disposition des chaises et des per- 
sonnes jouent un r61e d ne pas negliger car le sty¬ 
le de 1'entrevue determine le style de laedership 
d'un camp. 

2.2.3 Les questions posees doivent susciter 1'expression 
d’id§es,de sentiments.Et non pas susciter que des "oui" 
ou des "non". 

2.2.4 Les questions ne doivent pas etre uniquement centres 
sur le camp,mais etre un occasion de se connaitre mu- 
tuellement. 






r*\ 


6 



-Qu'est-ce que tu respectes chez les autres? 

-Quel genre de musique preferes-tu ecouter lorsque 
tu es joyeux? 

-Qu'est-ce qui influence davantage ta decision de ve- 
nir travailler dans un camp? 

-Que pense ton entourage concemant ton desir de tra¬ 
vailler dans un camp? 

2.2.5 Si une discussion interressante est en cours,ne pas 
interronpre en pretextant le manque de temps. 

2.2.6 Le personnel dirigeant du camp pourrait participer 
d l'entrevue. 

2.2.7 A la fin de 1'entrevue,on doit proceder d un resume 
et indiquer clairement au candidat les etapes futures 
d suivre. 

2.2.8 Etre clair quant d vos intentions d'un engagement e- 
ventuel. 

2.2.9 Evaluer vos entrevues, 

-Avez-vous dcouter ou avez-vous trop parler? 
-Avez-vous laisser le tenps au .-candidat de finir 
son histoire,ou si vous l'avez interrompu? 

-Avez-vous vraiment ecouter ou si vous etiez im¬ 
patient d'entendre la reponse que vous desiriez? 
-Avez-vous trop insister sur vos propres valeurs 
plutot que de laisser le candidat s'exprimer? 

-etc... 


O.C.A. Conferenee/Toronto Mar 6-8 
A.C.Q. Semaine des Camps Mar 12 - 18 
C.C.A. Winter Sports Skills Mar 12-17 
C.C.A. Exec Meeting/Montreal Mar 13-14 

N. S.C.A. Symposium/Halifax liar 28 - 30 

S.C.A. Conferenee/Meunster Apr 25 - 27 
A.C.Q. Assemblee Annuelle Mai 8 
C.C.A. Board Meeting/Toronto May 8 - 9 

C.C.A. Annual Meeting May 8 

O. C.A. Counsellor Conference May 10 



COMING EVENTS 



7 







STAFF MOTIVATORS 


(cont. from page 8) 

Experienced senior camp staff are very aware that although reasons and the 
motivating factors may vary, there are some common principles that leaders may 
use in working with people. General principles that when applied by sincere 
leaders, warmly concerned about their staff and sensitive to their feelings re¬ 
sult in a high quality staff and therefore positive camping experience for cam¬ 
pers. 


GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF WORKING WITH STAFF 


1* The first efforts of a staff member must be simple enough to insure success . 

Success does maintain interest. The job staff are given to do must be within 
their capability, skill and experience. It would be unfair to ask a first 
year instructor to handle the head of waterfront position of an intermediate 
canoeist to run your canoeing programme. Frustration at the outset is death 
to the efforts of a staff member 

2. Camp staff must see the relationship of the job they do, however small, to 
the total effort. 


A staff member may easily see that learning new skills such as canoeing or 
sailing have an effect on a camper, they may also receive recognition from 
their campers when they ask again and again for that bedtime story. However 
the mundane task of checking a camper's personal health goes unrecognized or 
may seem unimportant until suddenly that little cough, produces a fever. 

Every job or part of a job must be recognized as important and receive at¬ 
tention and praise. 

3. Camp staff must be made to feel the importance of their contribution . 

From the youngest to the oldest, most senior to the least experience, every 
member of our staff has a right to know what their contribution means to the 
camp and the campers. 

It is difficult to lose a cook in the middle of a summer. But what about a 
person doing dishes? It could take only one set of dishes done poorly to 
lead to an outbreak of disease, serious sickness, possible loss of health li¬ 
cense and closing of camp. A junior counsellor is just beginning but campers 
do look upon them as staff, they look up to them. Do we realize, do we tell 
junior staff that their example, the positive or negative way in which they 
deal with campers could have as much influence on a camper 1 s experience as a 
counsellor, section head or director? Everyone needs to be reminded of the 
importance of their contribution to the success of the summer. 

4. Camp staff must have opportunities to grow and learn . 

People do not enjoy doing the same job over and over again. Continued in¬ 
volvement demands new challenges. Can your head of sailing be effective 
four summers in a row? Where is the challenge? A change of activity may 
breed excellent results. We have all heard the expression "burnt out". 

Why "burnt out"? Obviously there can be many different reasons, but always 
review the opportunities to grow and learn. New challenges even in old jobs 
can make them seem new. 






8 




5. Camp staff must be encouraged to make as many decisions as possible 


There is a 
on the sidelines 

with maturity if you treat them like re 
them the facts and a sense of direction 
make intelligent decisions. 

If you were to begin your pre-camp with the statement yVA.stof this moment’ 
we have no camp policies regarding days-off, curfew, drugs, alcohol, use 
of the camp kitchen after regular hours, staff loupge, etc. etc. " in fac 
no major policies at all and you asked your staff to develop some polici 


fine balance between knowing when to ste]p.-in tSfen t'4 rei 
lines. Experience tells us that people x %^n* 0 ^' to a 

sponsible human beings; if you | 
, they will more often than not 


: matmosphi 


their efforts are obviously needed and appreciated' 


y.seeing 
"g appre- 
1 -human 
terson 
'f pass 


Senior staff can create such an attitude by their own example and b; 
that a staff member is made to feel part of the whole 1 ,' by* expressln 
ciation when it is deserved, by treating each staff asIan indiyidua! 
being and remembering the small, thoughtful' thing!’ that m^ke- eacK p 
feel a special individual. Along with the director the seriipp s.taf; 
much of the attitude and atmosphere on to others 

Camp staff should not be taken for granted. 


Staff have come to camp undoubtedly because it gi^es them satisfaction or 
they would not be there. Your concern for their well-being, your apprecia¬ 
tion of their contribution will always be valued. 

Your provision of an area where staff can relax and be on their own away from 
the rest of the camp is important. An impromptu staff 0 feed, 0 ihSutlhg" 
days off are given as decided upon; your understanding th§j-t§ tl jlegfyjsocamp 
for a wedding, a funeral or your taking the time ta 1 wg , -ite 6 an open (letteF’of 
approval of a whole staff working well together - s ail_ar§ e apggp§|atedj 2 jAlways 
remembering to include everyone from dishwasher to counsellorotpiepplfein saying 
thanks for pulling off a great visitors day or special gyentp-rtwiil be.-ppted. 

Take time to write a personal letter of thanks soon aftP:F ; caffip*- ^ .SiiBfi-a let¬ 
ter is a lasting reminder of your appreciation. Y m ^nwdsb i'nob 


8. Keep your staff informed about developments in the;o 


cITni iliw coy 'iemima sxh'i 

Ctartari.p-, 3:: J?h?.p i ;;apticle;i *T C 

.lemnusa 9hi 10I coy ritii 

:b brreaeb Iliw aa900.ua moi 


■ 

Bruce Harris is the Director of Camp Kawabi, Minden 
will be continued next month. 









The COUNSELLOR'S Pa 


A COUNSELLOR'S COMMITMENT 


Barryby Barry Lowes 


You are going to camp for fun, friends 
arid-a vacation. They're important. 
•However, when you take on the responsi¬ 
bility for a group of campers, you are 
-making a commitment, because you, more 
than anyone else at camp, will determine 
the success of your campers' summer. 

There are three main commitments tp be 
•-made.... to: 


Campers 

think of why campers come to camp 
how can. you help them’ to fulfill 
those wishes? 

remember it is a child?s vacation, 

1 hot, "military school 
Campers did not choose you 1 , 1 but you 
are the key to their summer 
children heed hdult role-models - 
5 that is you! 

whatoqualities would you want to 

fihd -in®sh Counsellor? 

how db-'you measure up to these,? 


camper 


set realistic expectation levels for yoUT-campers. 

Camp and Director 5* — Tourself 

give no less than your best effort a’ - be able 

listen, watch, ask - draw on their khott y 

experience ~ - setasdme 

don't be afraid to make mistakes - summer 

learn from them ' -determin 

don't debunk i.e. "at my last camp summer 

we did it better." * ' u reach-ob 

offer suggestions for improving the - reach ou 

situation 

see the job through, don't .quit af- :e rich expe: 

ter two weeks ?• grasp. Don't 

if something bothers you, speak ug direc+or < 

conduct yourself in town to reflect .*■ * ,.. . 

favourably on camp : 0 




10 










Strong, attractive Royal CHINET food service products help you ... 

• DISPOSE OF DISHWASHING COSTS 

Cut the expense of installing, maintaining and manning equipment 
that is used only a few months of the year. 

• DISPOSE OF BREAKAGE KAGE 

Save yourself the trouble and expense of buying matching replace¬ 
ments for pieces that crack, chip and shatter. 

• DISPOSE OF FOOD WASTE 

You get exact portion control with Royal CHINET’s wide range of 
sizes in regular and compartmented designs. 

• DISPOSE OF GERM COLLECTORS 

Royal CHINET products are sterilized when manufactured and 
packaged. And there’s never a germ-collecting chip, crack or 
poorly washed dish. 

• DISPOSE OF IRRITATING NOISE 

Disposable service is silent service. Meals are relaxed without the 
clatter and crash of china or metal. 

ENVIRONMENTAL ADVANTAGES, TOO 

All good campers want to protect the environment. Royal CHINET prod¬ 
ucts are manufactured from a renewable resource. What’s more, they’re 
biodegradable . . . molded of natural wood fibres that burn readily with 
little smoke. Even if discarded out-of-doors, Royal CHINET quickly de¬ 
composes in the earth. 

Get the full particulars now. Mail this coupon today. 


CANADIAN KEYES FIBRE COMPANY LTD 
HANTSPORT, NOVA SCOTIA 

Please provide me with details of the variety and costs of Royal 
CHINET food service products. 


NAME . 

COMPANY or CAMP 
ADDRESS __ 



JljmTiTlI 

|[h!iI]7»jTj L Hi 



11 















Wanted 


fmew^in^ilan^ii^l^ssociation 


SUNSHIP E. 


awaited tl 
from the 1 


FULL TIME CAMP DIRECTOR 

(Immediate Employment) 

Is required for Camp Glenburn, a 22 acre 
residential camp owned and operated by 
the Saint John Y.W.C.A. 


If you work-'^^h^reiing people, Sunship 
Earth can helj&yiSfcu.pcenkre them for 
their journey into tme' future. All of 
us are pas severs oh ’a spll, self con¬ 
tained vessei;trayeli^g thrpugh the im¬ 
mensity ot : ^paoe,'4#^8»famaaihg life sys¬ 
tems dependent solely upon energy from 
our mothershi^yVthb^^iihoufThis softly 
covered sphere^that-'we shape supports 
us on our 1 2 pwcney..'am 6 ng T the stars... 
That's what SunsfaiTj'feart^i is about. It's 
an exciting new program that helps young 
people understand the uniqueness of this 
one fragile-'plferldt 1 ’he!-'ball''home, and the 
life processes we all depend upon. 

Sunship Earth . Steve Van -kktre, A.C.A. 

1979. pp; ‘2-59' s ‘paperbahit^ 1 ' $9.95. 


Responsiblities : direct summer camps; 
develop year round camping programs; 
co-ordinate and supervise winter camp; 
publicity and promotion; budget planning 
and control; staff hiring and volunteer 
recruitment. 


Apply in writing with resume to 

Mrs. Doris Ward 
Executive - Director 

Y.W.C.A. 

27 Wellington Row 
Saint John, New Brunswick 
E2L 3H5 


bns bouiioetufiBrn n 
io ><d6to .qirio gmJo: 


seiov 

9r<} tuorltiw bsxBlsi sm 


bcnq T3HIHO IfiyoR 
rTyerit .9iom a'lsriW 
Itiw ylibBei mud terit 
9b vi^oiup T3HIHO 16 


npoun.) np sciuidj s< ip uonnpossn 
UOl)DOOM'D SuicIuwj UmpVUDD 






