Canadian 

camping 


Official Publication The Canadian Camping Association Vol. 29 

Publication Officielle L’Association des Camps du Canada No. 4 

102 Eglinton Ave., E., Suite 203 Toronto, Ontario M4P 1E1 June 1977 


OUR NEW LOGOI! 


r 



We’re proud of our new Logo and grate¬ 
ful to Daphne Kaye of Camp Voyageur, 
South River, Ontario for giving us such 
a simple but effective design. (Picture 
on page 2) Look for the logo on letter¬ 
head, brochures and badges right across 
the country as our Public Relations and 
Promotion Committee goes into action. 


Cross 

Canada 

Checkup 

Quebect 

Abbe Robert Msisormeuve is the new 
President of the A.C.Q. - Q.C.A, Pro¬ 
vincial Board.. The Vice-Presidents are 
the Presidents of the English and French 
Sections, respectively. Mr. Derek Walsh 
begins the second year of a two year 
term, while Abbe Paul Belanger will com¬ 
bine the Presidency of the French Sec¬ 
tion with his position as Vice-President 
of the C.C.A. M. Rosa ire "'Corbin is the 
Chairman of the French language Camping 
Committee. 

New Brunswick 

Mr. Robert Cameron is the newly elec¬ 
ted President of the New Brunswick 
Camping Association. He will continue 
to chair the Outdoor Education Committee 

(cont. on page 2) 


1 







Cross Canada Checkup 


(cont. from page 1 )| 


of the C.C.A. The N.B.C.A. will be hosting 
the C.C.A. Board Meeting in Moncton, Nov. 
4th and 5th, in conjunction with their Fall 
Workshop on the 5th and 6th. 


[Manitoba 


Saskatchewan 


Our sympathy is extended to President 
John Boutin as well as the many others in¬ 
volved with John Bosco Camp. The whole 
camp was lost in the early spring forest 
fires that raged across Northern Saskatche- 


Ontario 


British Columbia 


Mr. Lome Bowering is the chairman of the 
newly formed Professional Development 
Committee (formerly Standards) of the C.C.A 
Mr. John Hasell remains as President of the 
B.C.C.A. and Mr- Grant McKeen continues to 
be its Provincial Representative to C.C.A. 


In Brief 



Mrs. Barbara Taylor was re-elected 
President of the Newfoundland and labrador 
Camping Association.... Mr. George Matthews 
continues as President of the Nova Scotia 
Camping Association. Mr. Gary Luthy is in 
his first term of office with the Alberta 
C.A. 


C.C.A'S NEW EXECUTIVE 


President: 


Jack Pearse 


Past-President: 


Ron Johnstone 


Vice-President: 


Secretai 


Treasurer: 


Paul Belanger 
Eileen Mayotte 
George Simonett 


The new Executive can best be reached 
through the C.C.A. office in Toronto. 


AMERICAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 


o 


Mr. Punch Jackson, President and Chair¬ 
man of the C.C.A. Publications Committee 
announces that a new illustrated catalogue 
of C.C.A. Publications is available from 
the M.C.A. Box 241, Winnipeg, Manitoba. 


Their 10th Annual Counsellor Conference 
attracted over 500 delegates (65 different 
agencies and camps represented) ai the day 
long event which included 27 sessions for 
day camp and residential counsellors. 


Mrs. Kaye with her award winning logo. 


A Memorial Service was held on May 13th, 
for Elmer Ott. Mr. Ott, who died on May 7th 
was a long-time member of the A.C.A. and 
made many valuable contributions to camping. 
He was the author of So You Want to Be a 
Camp Counsellor . Those who knew Mr. Ott are 
invited to make contributions to a memorial 
in his name, c/o A.C.A. Bradford Woods, 
Martinsville, Indiana, USA 46151. 







Editorial 


Every tribe has its great ones. Those-who lead by example, those who create 
a will and a conviction in others to carry onj those who, with out the benefits of 
superior ability, but who have a generous amount of common sense can pass along to 
others a set of values which will make this country a better place in which to live. 

This summer thousands of young Canadian have made a commitment - a commitment 
to give their counsel and their skill to others younger than they. These are our 
dreamers - our idealists - our future leaders. They, in turn, look to their leaders 
for wise counsel, guidance and support. To all of us there is a challenge - a privi¬ 
lege and a responsibility. 


Each time we stand up for an ideal, or act to improve the lot of others, or 
strike out against injustice, we send forth tiny ripples of hope and, crossing 
others from a thousand different centres of energy and daring, those ripples build 
a current that can break down the strongest walls of prejudice and pessimism and 
add to the quality and joy of life for our family of man. 


"Some see things as they are and ask ’Why?' Let us dream things 
that never were and say, ,r Why not?" 


Have you Something to Say ? 

We welcome unsolicited articles, 
letters of comment and requests for 
topics of particular interst to you. 

If you send us an article, please have 
it clearly typewritten. Copies will 
not be returned because they may be 
used in future issues. 


"The final test of a leader is that he 
leaves behind him in others the conviction 
and will to carry on... the genius of a 
good leader is to leave behind him a si¬ 
tuation which common sense, without the 
grace of genius, can deal with success,- 
fully." 

Walter Lippman 




* — ----- 

FOODSAVERS 


Plastic Bags - save those plastic bags from 
bread, milk, etc. They are always useful 
for trips. They can be used to store some 
foods like flour, sugar or pancake mix 
(use double bags here) or to help keep the 
kids’ kits dry. 

Save on milk - Mix up powdered milk and cool 
(18-24 hours is best) then mix half 'n half. 
This gives the kids the milk they need with 
the taste they like, at a price you might 
better afford. 

Sizing - Don't forget: Every size you go 
[up, you save yourself about 10 %. Plan your, 
needs ahead and save a handful. 

Scrambled Eggs - Try cooking them in a 
double boiler. They take longer to cook 
but have more flavour and keep fresher 
longer. 

Bread Crusts - There are about 24 slices 
of -bread in an average loaf, if you save 
the crusts, rather than throwing them out, 
you can make sandwiches from them by pla¬ 
cing them sliced side out, them freeze 
them for later use. 

Can you freeze it? Much of what we 
throw out could, if the habit were estab¬ 
lished, be frozen more later use. Take a 
look for yourself, with just a little ex¬ 
tra thought, a lot can be saved. 


Pop - if you sell pop in cans - you 
could save money for the campers by .. 
selling it in returnable bottles - as 
well as helping protect our environ¬ 
ment. 

"Please keep your forks " - is a simple 
sign you can put up over your kitchen 
serving area whenever you have pie or 
a dessert which might require the use 
of two forks by each person. This 
saves on having double the number of 
forks, as well as extra washing in the 
kitchen. ! 

French Toast - can be frozen and served 
again. It keeps well and has a good 
flavour when reheated. ! 

Holy Mackerel ! - Canned mackerel costs 
about half as much as tuna and, mixed 
half and half with tuna in casseroles 
or sandwiches adds a good flavour and 
lowers the cost. 

Ice Water - Often kids drink just to 
cool down and the milk at camp may be 
cooler then the water. Try buying 
ice cubes and cooling the water in 
pitchers beforehand. This gives them 
the old drink to quench their thirst, 
but reduces the amount of milk consumed. 


"A nation is no better than its woods." 

-W.H. Auden 


4* 





THE IMPORTANCE OF THE UNIMPORTANT 


Bruno Morawetz, Director 
Camp Ponacka 


Every one has had the experience of getting very uptight about something which 
at a leter time proved to be of very little consequence. It is useful to maintain 
the kind of perspective in which things of lasting importance are given their proper 
due. I hope to shed some light on this but before I do this I wish to recount a few 
personal incidents. 

Last Sunday, I listened to a former counsellor who had recently graduated with 
honours in a four year history course at Queen's University. He commented on the 
fact that when he entered University five years ago a new trend was taking shape, a 
phenomenon which is sometimes called "Supermarket education". This type of education 
encourages a student to pick and choose here and there - a bit of sociology, a slice 
of English, a dash of art appreciation along with a basketful of History. My friend 
greatly lamented the fact that much of his four year education was a waste of time. 

He felt that more structure and an orderly progression in his course of studies would 
have been of far greater benefit. 

Let me now take you to my wife's new greenhouse. A friend walked in and expressed 
great admiration for her full and lush geranium plants. He complained that his gera¬ 
niums grew tall and spindly and never developed the fullness of hers. She immedi¬ 
ately informed him (and me) that’a geranium will grow into a beautiful plant only if 
you keep nipping off the new shoots, just as any fruit tree needs annual pruning. 

You may rightly ask, what all this has to do with camping? In an important sense 
a camp director is like a gardener and his geraniums are children. If a youngster 
grows without structure, without the occasional pruning, without limits, he may come 
back from camp, like my friend from Queen's, saying "I did not really learn anything 
at camp, I accomplished nothing, it was a waste of time." 

Many of us spend a good deal of time and money preparing a good soil for our cam¬ 
pers to live in - we provide good equipment, physical compforts, leadership, but we 
often forget that a child , like a geranium, needs the occasional pruning discipline. 

Under the influence of Dr. Spock and Freud, parents, educators and camp directors 
have come to believe that children should never be thwarted. For years we heard it 
said that punishing a child is self defeating and now we hear calls for the return of 
the noose and the strap. I am not prepared to enter into a discussion of these con¬ 
tentious issues, but they are signs that many people are beginning to see the danger 
of unbridled freedom in a richly fertilized soil. 

If one is not swinging aimlessly on the pendulum of public opinion, one must have 
some definite convictions about the important and the unimportant things in life. 

I am starting from the assumption that the only thing which is important to a hu¬ 
man being is what happens to his inside. The inner life of a man can be referred 
to by various terms, in English "soul" in Greek "psyche". A camp director who does 
not gear his camp to the inner life of his campers and staff will not be accomplishing 

._ (cont. on page 6 ) 


5 





The Importance of the Unimportant 

(cont. from page 5 ) 

what is most desirable. Most camp directors know that their camp has a special mys¬ 
tique, which makes camp w’lat it is - a place apart, and oasis for thirsty souls. 

This camp mystique is so intangible that few of us can trace it to its origins. It 
exists, because in the intimate atmosphere of camp life, the souls of all impinge on 
each other. In most camps, the director unconsciously gives guidance to his camp mys¬ 
tique, hence it is true (and well known) that a camp is the expression of the indi¬ 
vidual who runs it. Woe to the camp which yearly changes its directors! 

It is well to remember that, just as life consists of minute moments, a camper’s 
fourteen hour day consists of hundreds of minute incidents. His fourteen day sojourn 
is made up of thousands of small incidents, each of them seemingly unimportant. It is 
these seemingly unimportant moments that make or break his camping experience. 

During these thousands of seconds the door to the soul, the senses, are on full alert. 
How frightfully important that the eyes should see beauty, that the ears hear plea¬ 
sant sounds and often the sounds of silence. How important the warm touch of a 
friendly hand, how glorious to the nostrils the smells of nature, not to mention the 
pleasant taste of wholesome food. One philosopher of this century, Martin Buber, 
made this a cornerstone of his philosophy "the hallowin of daily life". Many people 
live under the illusion that one day, a some moment from somewhere, will come a great 
event which will reveal to them the meaning of their life. Such moments rarely come. 
Par better that we should recognize the holiness of each moment, each lovely sight 
or sound, that we should taste in each morsel of food the bounty of creation. i 

In addition to our five senses, the soul stretches forth its antenna and scans the 
vibrations of its surrounding space. In a good camp the vibrations are mainly good. 
Where there is honesty and trust and genuineness among people, the "vibes" will be 
good and the inner life of every person will be soothed and helped. How important 
are these unimportant things I have just talked about? How much of the director's | 

time is spent on these? 

Are we, the gardeners of our camper's souls sufficiently tuned in to these subtle 
ways of communicating? Do we realize that jarring colour schemes hurt the soul, that 
the tone of voice speaks louder than the words it utters? Why do you think, does 
every tourist love Switzerland? It's not just the mountains. It's the trimness of 
the fields, the flowers in the windows, the neatly painted houses. Without a great 
deal of money, our camps could be made into little Switzerlands, not in order to im¬ 
press parents on visitor's day, but because young souls are being watered and fed. 

Are we as camp directors too pre-occuped with facilties and programmes, are we too 
captivated by techniques of leadership, instead of the simple things like genuiness 
in staff and ourselves? Parents may be impressed by expensive equipment and elaborate 
facilities, kids are left cold by them. A highly developed campsite may prove to be 
a real handicap. When our camp was young, the campers derived great satisfaction 
from creating a new path or cutting trees for a new tent. Now it's all done. For¬ 
tunately we were able to buy some raw land nearby and the boys can be pioneers once 
again. 

. One thing which many directors consider very important is a highly trained staff. 

My own experience makes me question the importance of it. I am always suspicious 
when a staff application is accompanied by a long resume listing dozens of qualifi¬ 
cations, courses taken, tests passed. In many cases such a person has done all the 
right things, he has earned his Bronze, his St John's First Aid badge, his Bushman's 
thong, but perhaps he has never taken the time to sit quietly by a brook to listen to 
the gay laughter of its ripples. ( cont . on page 7 ) I 





The Importance of the Unimportant 

(cont. from page &) 

A good counsellor needs ears timed to 
the ripples of a child. He needs more the 
ability to listen than the skill to teach. 
If a counsellor's time is too important to 
share in the discovery of some unimportant 
beetle, will he be good for the childs' 
inner life? 

I am old fashioned enough to think that 
cleaning the cabin and making the bed are 
not as unimportant as they are held to be 
by many. A child needs self-discipline anc 
thrives on it. The American philosopher, 
William James said "First thing each mor-. 
ding we. should do something which we have 
I to force ourselves to do." 


Camp should be as different from Our 
daily life in the city as we can make it. 
In our camp we try strenously to keep away 
from anything which resembles the city. 

We do our best to shun concrete and steel, 
arborite and wall board, plumbing and elec' 
tricity, radios are completely outlawed. A 
change indeed is as good as a rest and the 
importance of these unimportant details 
must not be overlooked. 

Most - adults have had the misfortune of 
having their lively imagination stifled by 
the demands of time and circumstance. In 
Children, the imagination is still very 
much alive. A camp director is well ad¬ 
vised to inject an element of mystery and 
makebelieve into his programme. There 
should be many surprises in store for him, 
events can be announced in imaginative ways 
dressing up has never lost its appeal for 
the child in youngsters and adults alike. 
With the bombardment from noise and the 
mass media, the imagination is frequently 
overlaid and buried. Camp is a good place 
to re-awaken it. 

What I have been saying can have an im¬ 
portant bearing on the role of the direc¬ 
tors and the manner in which they spend 
their time. If it is true that these sub¬ 
tle influences are of the greatest impor¬ 
tance, they might be wise to delegate all 
"important" things, like daily routines, 
maintenance, buying, etc. to some member 
of the staff. It might be the right thing 


’ 7 


to keep themselves free for all those "un¬ 
important" things, such as being free to 
talk to a camper on the path or tell a bed¬ 
time story to one little group. I found 
a poem in my files, I don't know where it 
came from and who wrote it but perhaps it 
will convey what I have laboured to say: 

I took a piece of human clay 
And gentry formed it day by day 
And molded with my skill and art 
A young child's soft and yielding 
heart. 

It came again when days were gone 
It was a man I gazed upon 
The form I gave him still he bore 
But I could change him nevermore. 



ALL CAMPERS’ CLOTHING AND 
BELONGINGS 

should be marked for easy identification- 
losses are costly. 

CAMP LINEN AND EQUIPMENT, TOO, 
should be marked to avoid confusion 
and loss. 

NAMES OR NUMBERS CAN BE 
SUPPLIED. 

Order CASH'S NAME TAPES from 
department stores and other dealers — 
or direct from 

CASH'S 

CANADA LABELS LIMITED 

BOX 70, STATION S 
MONTREAL, QUEBEC 

PRINTED NAME PRICES 

6 doz. $3.20 9 doz. $3.65 

12 doz. $4.50 24 doz. $5.50 

No C.O.D.s. Please mail cheque or 
money order. 

Please include appropriate 
Provincial Sales Tax . 


"Successful people don't believe in mira¬ 
cles, although many of them should." 

- Jean Cocteau 








Special Report 

John Bosco Camp has been situated on the shores of ZN Lake in the Nipawin Provin- ^ 
cial Park for 18 years. In the past ten years since 1967, Bosco has served a total 
of 5,176 campers. Combining the figures for all the different camps in 1976 we come 
up with a total od 820 campers served by a total of 81 different staff and counsellors. 
Our camping Budget has trippled in the last five years. 

Camper's fees merely cover the cost of feeding them for ten days; $7.50 per day in 
'77. To make Bosco succeed financially each year we must rely on Community support. 

On Sunday morning May 15th news was received that Bosco had been damaged by the re¬ 
cent forest fire that swept the area. After inspection of the damage a loss of 
$62, 177.48 in Buildings and contents was calcuted, $32,210.00 of which was covered 
by insurance; leaving a total loss of $29,967.48. 

An emergency meeting of the St. John Bosco Camp Association was held in Aborfield 
on May 20th. There it-was decided that Bosco would try to operate this summer. 

Efforts were made to relocate Bosco on a permanent basis and carry out the summer's 
operation at a new site. A total of 256 man-hours were spent searching an area of 1 
about 1000 square miles for a suitable site. About 48 of the man-hours was spent 
searching by air, the rest by car, boat and on foot. Wo suitable site was found for 
immediate relocation. 

Faced with this situation Bosco approached the Department of Northern Saskatchewan 
(DNS) for permission to relocate our intermediate tenting areas at Ispuchaw Lake, -4 
mile from ZN Lake. This permission was granted. The DNS also offered the use of men 
and machinery to clean-up and renovate the ZN-Ispuchaw site. 

Six tenting areas have been relocated to Ispuchaw and the senior programs, involv¬ 
ing a close interaction with the wilderness, has been moved to more hospitable areas 
untouched by fire. 

Nearly twenty-five major renovation projects at Bosco have been carried out, by 
DNS men and machines, White-Gull Training Centre volunteers and many supporters of 
Bosco who came up for weekend work parties. 

Since this account was written, Mr. Dale Delainey, Bosco Public Relations officer re “ • , 
ports that they have seen two groups of campers come and go. They have planted over I 
3000 little trees, and are in the midst of their third camp. • 

WE WISH THEM ALL'SUCCESS .' ! ! 






FOR THE COUNSELLORS 


ON BEING A LEADER 


by D.R. Offord, M.D. 

When I was a Counsellor, I despised talks on leadership. It wasn't that the 
speeches I heard were so bad. They mentioned honesty and responsibility and many 
other things that I knew already. The talks never got arround to covering the 
essence of the core of what's involved in leadership. Maybe this sort of thing can 
never be communicated adequately in a speech such as this. The best I hope for is 
for you to think about some of the things I write and see whether they do indeed 
have any meaning for you. My hesitation in discussing leadership does not indicate 
that I think that the task of being a good counsellor is an unimportant one. I can 
not imagine a harder, or more important, job, than to be a camp counsellor. He, or 
she, can be something good in a boy's or a girl's life for the rest of his life. Not 
very many people can make that claim. 

Now what's in volved in being a leader? First, I suppose, is the desire to work 
with and understand children. This doesn't appeal to everyone, nor should it. 

There is nothing wrong with not wanting to be a counsellor. However, if you don't, 
it's silly, because of pressures outside of yourself, whether they come from home, 
parents or friends to go to camp. 

Counselling is not a job that you can learn to do well overnight. It involves, 
in part, enjoying your campers and letting them enjoy you. It involves too, at¬ 
tempting to see the world through your camper's eyes. You can remember what it was 
like being 9, 10, or 11 (better than I can remember that age) and you can recall 
also how much it meant to you to have someone really understand you, and be able to 
share your world. Being a good counsellor involves asking for help sometimes from 
people you trust. You might have gained the impression that if you are really going 
to be a good counsellor, your kids will be well-behaved and you will never need any 
outside assistance. This is just not true! Some cabins where the kids are the best 
behaved are the cabins very very little of any lasting learning has gone on between 
the counsellor and his cabin group. 

Some campers are extremely difficult for anyone to handle. In general, there are 
two groups of children that come to a camp. The first group are kids who have very 
satisfactory homes in an emotional sense. They feel "good in their own skins" 
about themselves. They come to camp to have something added to their lives. If 
they could put it into words, one of them would say, "I want to go to camp because 
I want to learn how to swim better, more about camp craft, more about canoeing, etc. 
My counsellor and I will get along fine and I'll probably end up wanting to be like 
him." A kid like this is a joy to have around. He acts toward you in the way you 
expect. 

There is a second, smaller group of children who come to a camp. They consist of 
children for whom everything hasn't gone just right in an emotional sense. They 
arrive or your door step, or rather your cabin step, with some needs that really 
should have been looked after long before they got to camp. If they could put it 
into words, they would say, "Look, I really haven't had everything I should have had 
early in my life, and I want the camp and you to make up for a lot of this. If you 
and the camp don't realize this, I am going to be hard to handle. You are going to 

(cont. on page 10 ) 









On Being a Leader 

(cont. from page 9-X 

have a lot of trouble teaching me new things." 

"I may like my counsellor, but I probable won't be able to show him that. In 
fact, the more I like him, the worse I'll behave, maybe." This type of child is just 
not easy to deal with and they are present in all camps. It's hard to understand 
what's beneath their behavior. This Is ■ the kind of camper with whom you can welcome 
some help. Through this sort of experience, you have an opportunity to learn a good 
deal; not only about the child, but about yourself. 

You may feel, sometimes, that to be a good counsellor, you must have the same 
amount of affection for each of your campers. But, you just can't do that, can you? 
Because some of your campers will be a lot more likeable to you than others. You 
don't have to apologize for that! It may be that you'll like the shy children be¬ 
cause you are shy yourself. It may be that campers that swim well appeal to you be¬ 
cause you pride yourself in your swimming ability. It may be that you enjoy easy 

outgoing, active kids because this is the part of you that you admire. 

When you are honest about your feelings about your campers., it gives you a better 
chance to treat them fairly. You begin to see for yourself too, whether there is 
something (always the same things) aboiit some campers, or about staff, or about 
people in general which you really dislike, and which really "bugs" you. You want to 
check to see whether this isn't something which you just don't like in yourself, if 
that's true, the realization of this may make it easier for you to get along with 

these campers, or with staff members, and to live with less strain with that part of 

yourself. In addition, you may find that some days you are a much better counsel¬ 
lor than others. That's natural. It's worthwhile to let you kids know when you feel 
you've been a poor counsellor so that they begin to realize that you too have good j 
days and bad days. 

Your campers will really look up to you as a counsellor. They will want to be 
like you in many ways. Part of being a leader is talking to you campers about 
yourself. You can let them know what it is like to be all through 9 or 10, and in¬ 
stead, being 18 and older. Campers will be interested in knowing that you have the 
same kind of feelings that they have. Imagine a big guy, or a grownup girl, being 
scared, being depressed, or being fed-up. Your campers feel all these things and it 
is comforting for them to know that their leaders share these feelings. You may feel 
that as a counsellor, there are many parts of your life, and many parts of the world 
that just don't satisfy you; but, if you can be a good counsellor it will give you 
the feeling, rightly so, that there is something very worthwhile about you, and some¬ 
thing worthy of respect about you. 

Part of being a leader is not to lead too much. You probably remember, as campers, 
that the counsellors you liked were the ones that didn't tell you to do things so 
much, but respected, and acted on, your opinions about what you wanted to do. 'When 
planning programme, your campers will have many ideas of their own. Use them. The 
kids in your cabin will like it when you are enthusiastic about about a programme. 
However, it is hard for you to be enthusiastic about a programme if it looks like a 
dud to you. Maybe it is a real dud. If you think so, you should let whoever is 
planning the programme know what you think, in hopes that changes can be made so 
you can honestly believe in, and be enthusiastic about, the programme. In fact, I 
suggest that you should insist with the senior staff and the Camp Director that you 
play an important part in the planning of programme, that your ideas are taken seri- 

(cont. on page 11) 


10 




On Being a Leader 

(cont. from page 10;) 

ously about the future direction of the camp, and that if you return, year after year, 
your experiences should be different and richer each summer. 

?Jhen children misbehave they need limits, that's for sure. They also need a chance 
to put what they feel into words. This is what you convey as a leader, that it is not 
just controlling a camper's behavior, but with his help, understanding what is behind 
it. You value not denying a child's feelings but accepting' them. Anyone of your 
campers has a right to be angry but he doesn't have the right to hit someone every 
time he feels that way. Every one of your campers has a right to be scared, but that 
doesn't mean he has to back away from all scarey things. Every one of your campers 
has the right to feel sad, but that doesn't mean he has to close everyone out when 
they try to help him. 

A good leader should know his camping skills. This is something you can learn if 
you don't already feel competent in these areas. Mastering these skills is a joy 
in itself; and, in addition, it gives you an added advantage in being able to be of 
servicer to your campers. Your experience in being able to teach non-swimmers, for 
instance, can be of more help to a shy child who wants to learn to swim than a lot of 
talk about the fact that he is shy. So it is your responsibility to know your camping 
skills, and if you don't, to find someone who can help you learn them. 

When you are a good counsellor, your campers will want more of you. It is worth¬ 
while to keep in touch with them throughout the winter months. You can initiate this 
because they may be too shy. You can end up having a lasting relationship with some 
of your campers which will extend into adulthood - yours and theirs. 

Everybody has lots of advice for potential leaders, and I am sure some of you must 
end up feeling that the way to leadership is to be just like somebody else who is a 
good leader. I would vote against this. Each of you has had many experiences which 
were valuable learning situations, and that's worth a lot. I would hesitate to "cash 
in" your uniqueness for a photostatic copy of someone else. 

Leadership has more to do with your sensitivity than your athletic ability, more 
to do with honesty about yourself than your school performance, and lastly, more to 
do with a genuine desire to be of service to children than with an outstanding ability 
in camping skills. 


Maintenance 


Privies Wood ashes from your fireplace 
are still one of the most effective 
agents in reducing the "mass" in out¬ 
door toilets. 

"Wescodyne" is tamed chlorine and, in a 
diluted form is an excellent cleaner and 
disinfectant. It has a residual factor 
which most others do not. 

"Please put me down" - carefully printed 
| on the bottom of toilet seat lids en- 
b courages camper to do so. 


Cover new buildings with old 

If you are putting up a new building or 
recovering an old one, use barn board. 
Don't stain it, just let it be. You have 
now one less building to cosmetically 
recover. 

Shingles 

Often you can get "seconds" in cedar 
shakes. Use them to cover buildings. 

They last and you don't have to paint 
them either. 


11 



TRIPPING TIPS 


Billy Pails - make your own from 105 oz. 
tins left from the kitchen. Coat hanger 
wire is great for making handles. 



^Ss****. 


Cups - try stackable soft vinyl tumblers - 
they are easy to pack, inexpensive and 
easier to carry. Note: for hot drinks 
just fill them half full, then they're 
not ;, too hot to handle." 


Waterproofing Packs - Use green garbage 
bags inside your pack or over the slee¬ 
ping bag inside the pack. This ensures 
a dry bed even in wet weather. 


Gunney Sacks - can be made very reasonably 
from "factory cotton". Use different sizes 
to pack any dried soft foods. • Put the food 
in a used bread bag, then in the gunney ; 
sack for extra protection against wetness 


6lT£“800 NSSI 

131 dfrW OIUV1NO 'OiNOUOi 
1SV3 3 n N 3 AV N 01N 11 93 201 'C02 suns 

UpDtlDJ Tip sduw.i sap UOlWpOSSD 
UOIJDOOSSD Suidwvo umpDUDD 




