Canadian 

camping 


Official Publication The Canadian Camping Association Vol. 29 

Publication Officielle L'Association des Camps du Quebec No. 3 

102 Eglinton Ave., E., Suite 203 Toronto, Ontario M4P 1E1 May, 1977, 




NEWS 

One of the Highlights of the Annual 
Meeting was the presentation of Awards of 

i ! AND VIEWS 

Honour #.. certificates presented to those 
Canadians who have given outstanding ser¬ 

FROM ACROSS CANADA 

vice to the Canadian Camping Association# 
This year, Awards were presented to: 

MAY BROWN, ADELE EBBS, BRYAN GRAHAM, RON 

The C.C.A. has a new Logo! As a result 
of a competition lasting several months, 
a committee finally selected a design 
submitted by Mrs# Daphne Kaye of CAMP 
VOYAGEUR, Ontario. Our new symbol will 
soon become very evident on letterhead and 
in publicity. In addition, it is expected 
that a cut of the Logo will be made avail¬ 
able to Camp Directors so that our Na¬ 
tional symbol can be part of all publicity 
and correspondence sent out from every 
accredited Camp in Canada# It will be a 
good promotioa for Camps • • # and good pro¬ 
motion for Canadian Camping! 

i JOHNSTONE, CLIFF LABBETT, BARRY LOWES, 

GRANT MCKESN, BILL SWIFT, AND BARBARA 
TAYLOR. Congratulations are extended to 
these great Canadians. 

In addition to these awards, two Certifi¬ 
cates of Thanks were presented, the first, 
to Recreation Canada, Fitness and Amateur 
Sport Branch - (received by our new consul- 
1 tant Karl Benne) in appreciation for their 
tremendous financial support; the second, 
to the Canadian Recreational Canoeing 
Association, (received by John Eberhard) 
for its leadership in the recreational 
canoeing field# 

The Annual Meeting of the Canadian 
Camping Association was held during the 
latter part of April at the beautiful 
Easter Seal Camp in Squamish, B.C. The 

B.C.C.A. hosted Board and Committee mem¬ 
bers of the C.C.A. at their meeting, which 
incidentally was held at the same time as 
the Annual Meeting of the Canadian Recre¬ 
ational Canoeing Association. (Musical 
Chairs was played by Ron Johnstone, who be¬ 
came Past-President of the C.C.A., and the 
new President of C.R.C.A. John Latimer 
became Past-President of the C.R.C.A.) 

The next Annual Meeting will be held in 
Winnipeg, in April, 1978. 

Non-Canadians working in summer camps... 
Each Provincial Association office has de¬ 
tails of the exemption regarding foreigners 
gaining access to Canada to work as Coun¬ 
sellors in Canadian Camps. It is further 
suggested that Camp Directors notify of¬ 
ficials at the Point of Entry of the names 
and addresses of these students so that 
their entry into Canada will be made some- 

Fun and Games! 

(contg on page 2) 


1 








News and Views (cont. from page 1 ) 

what easier and less complicated. The 
ruling about foreign staff applies only to 
those young men and women who will be in¬ 
structing and counselling ... and only in 
Accredited Camps. 

Last year, a Task Force to determine 
the future direction of C.C.A. was created 
with the support of Recreation Canada. The 
purpose of this group was to determine and 
and recommend the direction which C.C.A, 
should be considering for its future 
growth and development. After several 
meetings with hundreds of Canadian Camping 
leaders, the report was finally submitted 
.... and accepted .... at the Annual 
Meeting of the C.C.A. Highlights of 
this report are as follows: 

1. Camps continue to join C.C.A., only 
through their own Provincial Associa¬ 
tions. 

i2. Many of the tasks of the committees 
S could be done more effectively by 
members of some of the Provincial 
Associations. _ ^ _ 

3. C.C.A. should continue to organize 
National Conferences (eg. Geneva 
Park type meeting), and assist Pro¬ 
vincial Associations to organize 
training events, workshops, seminars, 
etc. 

4. The Board of the C.C.A. should con¬ 
tinue its support of Provincial Asso¬ 
ciations by holding their meeting in 
conjunction with Provincial workshops 
and conferences. 

5. A National Publications Service should 
be a strong priority of the C.C.A.. 
This service should include informa¬ 
tion on new books, reports, theses, 
speeches etc. In addition, C.C.A. 
has a role in locating and even pro¬ 
ducing material on the "HOW TO DO IT" 
as pects of camping. 

Other recommendations were made, and 
the report along with all of the back¬ 
ground material is available in every Pro¬ 
vincial Association office. Thanks to the 
Committee: John Latimer (Chairman), Paul 


Belanger, Barry Lowes, Jack Pearse, Jay 
Haddad, George Robitaille, and consultant/ 
researcher, Ron Johnstone. 

Punch Jackson has accepted responsi¬ 
bility for the recommendation on Publica¬ 
tions and will soon be contacting every 
camping association with new information 
and material. 

Another Task Force recommendation 
which has already been initiated is plan¬ 
ning for a National C.C.A. Conference to 
be held at Geneva Park, January 19-22, 1978 
Application for registration is to be made 
through each Provincial Office, with the 
details to be circulated across the coun¬ 
try. The charter committee for this con¬ 
ference is: Rosaire Corbin , Association 
des Camps du Quebec; Virginia Fraser , 
Etobicoke Parks and Recreation, Day Camping 
Bruce Harris , Camp Kawabi, Independent; 
Wayne Perkins , Camp Wanakita, Y.M.C.A.; 
Mardi Tindal , United Church Camping; Barry 
Lowes, Camp Timberlane, Independent; and 
Dorothy Walters , Government Liaison; ~ 


CANADIAN CAMPING 

is published 6 times a year by the 

Canadian Camping Association 
102 Eglinton Ave., E. # 203 
Toronto, Ontario M4P 1E1 

(416) 488-7345 


SUBSCRIPTION RATES 

1 year $ 5.00 
3 years $12.00 


ADVERTISING RATES ON REQUEST 


0 






NEW BROCHURES 


Planning a new brochure for next year? Here are some 
points worth pondering. Take pictures this year for 
next summer. 


When Charles W. Tisdall, managing partner of Tisdall Clark Lesly & Partners, 
one of Canada's largest public relations consulting firms, was asked to speak at 
the 1977 Annual Meeting of the Ontario Camping Association, in preparation for his 
presentation, he and other members of his consultant staff (including members of 
the firm’s graphics division) reviewed some 50 camp brochures. With few exceptions 
these were brochures of camps operating in Ontario. 

Some camp directors may not agree with all the observations. They are presented, 
without bias, with one objective - to help Canadian camps present themselves in the 
best possible light. 

ON PICTURES 


You don't have to use pictures to have a successful and attractive brochure, but 
if you use them, make sure you use them correctly. Pictures should always say some¬ 
thing. Those that do not depict some kind of action easy to recognise should be ac¬ 
companied by a caption explaining what it is you are trying to illustrate. For ex¬ 
ample, don't feature a picture of a counsellor talking to a young camper. That 
doesn't say enough. Instead, have the same picture but include with it a caption 
saying something, perhaps, to the effect that, " at our camp we have concerned coun¬ 
sellors who care about the children". 

Don't use poor quality pictures. In our review of camp brochures, there were 
quite a few of them. Make sure the pictures are clear and distinct. No pictures 
are more effective than poor pictures that are under or over-exposed. The use of 
illustrations in brochures is expensive. Don't waste your money. 

Almost all of the brochures and pamphlets reviewed included pictures of the par¬ 
ticular camp's staff, most often sitting and standing row after row, clean and neat 
in their Sunday best. None of them included the names of the staff members. It 
isn't good enough to have a picture of an entire staff without identifying them. 

Just because they may be a bright and good-looking bunch, doesn't mean they are good 
counsellors. And this is what parents want to know. So tell parents who the staff 
members are. You might even include a short description on their backgrounds, and 
their experiences. 

Many of your camps used collages. These are fine, but don't overdo it. And 
again, the pictures should tell the reader something useful about the camp. 

Use pictures that are positive, action-filled, and illustrative of your camp's 
reputation. Don't present a picture that has content that could be misinterpreted. 
One brochure reviewed had a picture showing two campers standing up in a canoe. 

Some observant parents might feel that your camp is not aware of the elements of 
good boatmanship. Another picture was a shot of the golf course at a particular 
camp. When the picture was taken, the fairways looked as though they hadn't been 

___ (cont. on page 4 ) 


3 








New Brochures 


(cont. from page 3 ) 


mowed in weeks. It certainly wasn’t very impressive* If there is any question 
about the integrity of a certain picture, don’t use it* Pictures are not meant to 
be used simply to use up space and make the brochure more attractive. 

ON PRODUCTION 

The best advice to offer here is to be concerned with quality rather than quan¬ 
tity. Depending on financial resources, use the best printing house available in 
your area. It may mean a reduction in the number of pages originally planned, but 
four pages - well laid out - are much more effective than twelve poor ones* 

SIZE AND SHAPE 

When designing your brochures, you are virtually unlimited in choice* But al¬ 
ways choose a size and shape that is easy to handle and easy to file. Relate them 
to sizes which can be inserted in stock-size envelopes* The less you ask of those 
who receive them, the better off you are. Eor example, brochures that need to be 
opened and spread out onto the kitchen table in order to be read are not effective 
for the simple reason that you are jbrcing the readers to do something they may not 
want to do. They may be flashy and perhaps interesting, but to be honest, they are 
a pain* People are lazy. Make it easy for them to receive your message* And re¬ 
member that you are vying with newspapers, magazines, and other brochures for your 
readers 1 interest* 

COLOUR 

Colour is expensive, but it depends on how you use it* If you want to use four- 
colour concentrate on striking pictures, and again, with captions where necessary* 
High-gloss paper is probably the best for colour reproduction, but it is also one 
of the most expensive paper stocks* If you are using what we call two-colour bro¬ 
chures, use colours that are compatible, that is, pleasing to the eye* One-colour 
reproduction, unless it is of excellent quality, tends to detract from what you 
could have done by just using black and white. 

WRITING STYLES 

Keep yomr writing consistent. Many brochures reviewed really fell down in this 
area. Some were written in good basic English on one page, and then, an informal 
and "slang" English on the next. Simply said, use good English. Write in a style 
that flows easily, that is simple, but correct* Avoid trite expressions such as, 
M our camp is a melting pot" or, "We are one big happy family". There are a million 
ways you can say the same thing in a more professional and original manner. 

OTHER OBSERVATIONS 

Be creative and clear* One brochure reviewed showed great ingenuity. It was in 
the form of a calendar, indicating pertinent dates such , "August 8th - last ses¬ 
sion begins today", or, "September 6th - first day of school". It was original; 
the medium was the message. It had a dual purpose in being both a brochure and a 
calendar. (This observation does not mean for a moment that every camp should get 
into the calendar business. 

(cont. on page 5) 




j New Brochures (cont, from page 4) 

If you are using a logo - and most of you are - make it large enough so that it 

may be seen. Many brochures had such little logos, tucked away in corners, that it 

almost looked as if camps were ashamed of them* If your logo isn’t easily recog¬ 
nizable and memorable then it defeats the whole purpose of having a logo and forget 
it. The Association logos, if reproduced - must be large enough to be read* 

Avoid inserting loose pages in brochures such as additional information or fee 
schedules. It is sloppy. Use the n cut on dotted line" technique, or have this 
information centre stitched into the brochure. It is recognized that fee schedules 
change more often than brochures, but centre fold stitched information answers this. 

Capitalize on those elements - and strengths - that are unique about your camp - 

that one aspect that distinguishes your camp from the rest. The fifty brochures re¬ 
viewed, submitted from Ontario camps, all said pretty much the same thing. 

SOME INGREDIENTS FOR A SUCCESSFUL BROCHURE 


The following should be included in 611 brochures* Some suggestions may seem 
self-evident, but many brochures reviewed did not include them. 

1. Say something about the management of your camp. Highlight the quali¬ 
fications and experiences of your management team. 

2. List the activities that are offered in your camp 

5* Give the background and experience of your senior staff members. 

4. Note the safety precautions in existence at your camp, including 

water safety, supervision, availability of doctors and nurses, 
first aid, and emergency measures 

5* Have a fee schedule as part of the brochure. 

6. Include the telephone number(s) and addresses of the appropriate 
person parents should contact to learn more about your camp. 

7* Provide a short history of your camp. 

8. Include clear directions on how to get to your camp. 

9* Explain the arrangements for eating, sleeping, clothing, washing, 

etc. at your camp. 

10. Explain the kind of camp you operate. Is it a religious or social 
service camp; a boys’ camp; a girls’ camp; a co-ed camp; or a camp 
for the mentally retarded or physically handicapped. 

11. Include a self addresses envelope for the return of application 
forms and fees. 

12. Display your accreditation logo clearly, and large enough to be 

(cont. on page 6 ) 


5 



New Brochures (cont. from page 5 ) 

seen - the Canadian C a mping Association - your Provincial 
Association. Be proud of it, 

13* Finally, make sure that the name of your camp on your bro¬ 
chure is readable. Believe it or not, there were a few that 
were not, 

14. Choose a clear and distinct type style and then stay with it. 

15. Use colour, even as simple as brown ink on beige paper stock, 
and stay with it too. Adopt your own camp colour or colours. 


FOR SALE 


24 foot steel pontoon barge, 8* X 20 T plywood deck, metal railings, 

33 H.P. Motor. Formerly used to transport children. Requires minor 
repairs. Selling for best offer: "As is" condition on location - 
(Peterborough). For further details: Mr. Atkins, Earlscourt Childrens* 
Home, 46 St. Clair Gardens, Toronto, Ont. M6E 3V4 (416) 654-8981 


PROVINCIAL CAMPING ASSOCIATIONS 


British Columbia Camping Association 

633 West 8th Avenue 

Vancouver, British Columbia V5Z 1C7 

Alberta Camping Association 
332 6th Avenue S.W. 

Calgary, Alberta T2P 0R5 

Saskarchewan Camping Association 
Box 823 

Regina, Saskatchewan 

Manitoba Camping Association 
Box 241 

Winnipeg, Manitoba 

Ontario Camping Association 
102 Eglinton Avenue East 
Suite 203 

Toronto, Ontario M4P 1E1 


Quebec Camping Association, Inc. (Eng.) 

2233 Belgrave Avenue 
Montreal, Quebec H4A 2L9 

Association des Camps du Quebec, Inc. (Fr.) 
1415 est, rue Jarry 
Montreal, Quebec H2E 2L9 

New Brunswick Camping Association 
Box 373 

Fredericton, New Brunswick 

Nova Scotia Camping Association 
Box 696 

Halifax, Nova Scotia 

Newfoundland and Labrador Camping Asso. 

P.0. Box 4l88 

St. John’s, Newfoundland A1C 5Z7 


6 



YOUR WATERFRONT PROGRAM 


LIFEJACKETS AND PERSONAL FLOTATION DEVICES 


by Jocelyn Palm 


Last year, the Canadian Camping Association conducted a survey of member camps 
across Canada in an effort to discover the attitudes of camping people concerning 
Federal Regulations governing lifejackets and personal flotation devices (P.F.D.'s). 
The survey was initiated as a result of the Regulation instituted in November 1975» 
requiring the presence in EVERY craft of a lifejacket or P.F.D. for EACH person in 
the craft. Previous regulations had excluded some craft. The new Regulation, how¬ 
ever, applies to all craft with the exception of racing shells, preparing for, or 
participating in, competion. Camps were therefore faced with the responsibility to 
either supply or have campers and staff equip themselves, with an APPROVED (by the 
Department of Transport) lifejacket or P.F.D. 

The survey results demonstrated divergent opinions about the new Regulation. 
Almost 50% of the camps responding required the presence of the lifejacket or P.F.D. 
prior to the regulation. Opinions differed concerning the practicability and/or 
enforcement of the regulation. 

Perhaps one surprising result of the survey was the fact that lS% of the camps 
were unaware of the regulation until they read about it in the June ''Canadian Camping 1 
magazine, and another 10% of camps were unaware of the regulation prior to receiving 
the questionnaire which sought their opinions. 

Another interesting fact emerged: some camps showed campers how to correctly 
fasten their lifejacket or P.F.D. on land; a few taught campers how to put on and 
fasten their lifejacket or P.F.D. once in the craft and out on the water; and only a 
very few taught, them how to put the lifejacket or P.F.D. on while immersed in the 
water. 

Camps have an excellent opportunity to educate with respect to these flotation 
devices. It has frequently been proven that the worst time to learn the appropriate 
use of a lifejacket or P.F.D. is at the time of an emergency when fear is paramount 
and calm,controlled actions are very difficult. 

Each camp is urged this summer to institute a program through which campers 
and staff can learn how to use their lifejacket or P.F.D. This session could be an 
all camp event at which each person became thoroughly familiar with the strengths 
an limitations of their own lifejacket or P.F.D. The learning might also take place 

in section groups, activity groups, cabin groups or whatever. the key is that it 

should be done and scheduled early in each camp period. 


(cont. on page 8 ) 




Life-.jackets and P.F.D.' 

/ 


(cont. from page 7) 


Here are some things your waterfront staff 
should be prepared to teach. 

1. A lifejacket has more buoyancy (29irlbs)| 
than a P.F.D. (15 lbs.) A lifejacket 
must have a righting movement (tend to 
turn the wearer face up when immersed) 

2. Government APPROVED flotation devices 
carry a label advising of B.O.T. appro¬ 
val. Only approved flotation devices 
are permitted under the Regulation. 

There are many non-approved devices on 
the market - a little consumer educa¬ 
tion here! The approved units have met 
a variety of standards concerning: 
colour, fastenings, buoyant material, 
covering, stitching, strength, etc. 

|3. A lifejacket and a P.F.D. are not the 
same thing - the terms are not synony¬ 
mous. P.F.D's have less buoyancy and 
therefore are less bulky. P.F.D.'s 
are designed to encourage Canadians to 
wear the devices. 

|4. The Regulation requires an APPROVED 
lifejacket or P.F.D. for every person 
in every craft. Note that the Regula¬ 
tion does not require NEARING the de¬ 
vice, although wearing is recommended, 
especially under certain conditions; 
for example; cold water, rough water, 
swift water, far from shore, weak or 
poor swimmer, etc. 

5. Each of us should be able to: 

a. Put on and fasten our lifejacket or 
P.F.D. correctly and securely when 
on land; 

b. Put on and fasten our lifejacket or 
P.F.D. correctly once in the sail 
boat, canoe, power boat, etc. This 
is often a bit tricky compared with 
the donning on land; 

c. Once immersed in deep water, put on 
and fasten our lifejacket or P.F.D. 
relax and see what position the body] 
assumes, faceup, face down, or on 
one side; simulate unconsciousness. 

d. Fasten our lifejacket or P.F.D, 
correctly and fall into the water 
from a low dock or boat or canoe. 


relax and discover the position 
your body assumes in the water, 
do not attempt this entry from a 
height - it could have jarring 
results; 

e* Once in the water attempt HELP 
(heat escape lessening posture) 
this is a tucked position, with 
arms close to chest and knees bent 
up to limit loss of body heat when 
one is immersed in cold (below 
60F.) water. 

f. Advanced campers should have the 
experience of helping a partner 
to put on her lifejacket or P.F.D. 
once both are in the water - the 
partner could simulate an injury 
to demonstrate that this task is 
not as easy as it looks. 

6. Finally, care of lifejackets and 
P.F.D.'s is important; these are 
costly, yet they will last several 
years if used for the puposes intended 
(not as boat fenders or kneeling pads) 
more consumer education! 

We need to recognize that teaching this 
information is difficult when one considers 
the Canadian population as a whole; camps 
on the other hand, can do it well. We have! 
the expertize, a wide variety of examples 
of approved lifejackets and P.F.D's and 
a captive audience - let's do it well. 

The C.C.A. intends to continue to monitor 
the opinions of camping people with res¬ 
pect to lifejackets and P.F.D.'s. Please 
send C.C.A. your opinions on this and fu¬ 
ture articles, and submit any questions 
you may wish to pose. 

********** 

Jocelyn Palm is the Executive Director 
of the Royal Life Saving Society and the 
President of' the Ontario Camping Associa¬ 
tion. 


********* 


Legislation under Small Vessels Regulations 
now requires a Ministry of Transport approved 
lifejacket or Personal Flotation Device for 
each person in any vessel at all times. Canoes 
and rowboats were previously exempted but 
are now included. 


8 




CAMPING PUBLICATIONS 

(Place your orders now, and be ready for the 1977 camping season!) 
Leadership Training 

* CAMP COUNSELLOR'S HANDBOOK Blackstock and Latimer (Hardcover $7.95) Paper 

* THE CAMP COUNSELLOR'S BOOK Northway and Lowes 
SO YOU WANT TO BE A CAMP COUNSELLOR Ott 
CAMP COUNSELLOR'S MANUAL Ledlie and Holbein 


Camp Management 

A CAMP DIRECTOR TRAINS HIS OWN STAFF 
CAMP STAFF JOB DESCRIPTIONS ACA 


Hammett 


Church Camping 

HOW TO BE A CAMP COUNSELLOR 
CAMPING TOGETHER AS CHRISTIANS 
CHURCH CAMPING 

Camp Activities 


Ensign 


WOODCRAFT AND CAMPING Nessmuk 

BASIC RIVER CANOING McNair 

MALO'S COMPLETE GUIDE TO CANOEING AND CANOE TRIPPING 
COUNSELLOR'S GWUIDE TO CAMP SINGING Tolbitt 

TEACHING RIDING AT SUMMER CAMP Price 
SWIMMING Waterman (teach yourself book) 


Ifelo 


Cooking 

* COOKERY FOR KIDS, KAMP »N KICKS 
OLD-FASHIONED DUTCH OVEN COOKBOOK 


Helen Stewart 
Holm 


Nature Lore 


ACCLIMATIZATION 

ACCLIMATIZING 


Van >fetre 
Van Matre 


Health and Safety 

CAMP PHYSCIAN'S MANUAL 

Miscellaneous 


Thomas 


(Hardcover) 


* ONCE THERE 'WAS A CAMPER Poems by Mary S. Edgar 

* LOG OF CANADA'S CENTENARY JOURNEY CCA 

All books are paper unless otherwise noted 


4.95 

1.95 

1.50 

2.25 

.75 

.50 

.75 

1.50 

5.00 

1.75 

2.00 

2.95 

1.95 
1.95 

1.95 

3.50 

3.50 

3.25 

3.95 

9.00 

1.75 

3.00 


* Denotes a Canadian Book 


Send orders PRE-PAID to: C.C.A. Publications, 102 Eglinton Ave., E. Suite 203 


PLEASE PRINT 


Toronto, Ontario M4P 1E1 


Name 


Address_ 
City_ 


Provinc e 


Postal Code 


No. 

Title Price Total I 






















Total Amount enclosed 


9 



FOOD FOR THOUGHT 


1. Toast 

You can save a lot of waste of margerine or butter if you 
melt the spread and use a paint brush to butter it in the 
kitchen before it is served. 


2. Keeping Green Vegetables FRESH 

This can be a problem if you have infrequent delivery. Pre¬ 
pare your green vegetables ahead of time, then put them in 
plastic bags, twist them so they are airtight. They are 
then ready-to-serve when you want them. You may be impressed 
by how long they will last 


3. A Touch of Class 

Buy a bottle (105 oz.) of broken marachinocherries. Use them 
to top regular desserts such as pudding and cakes. 


4. Super Salads 

Put bits of leftover bacon or cut up cheese to your salads. 
This adds a bit of "sour" to the "sweet" and kids really eat 
it up. 


Have you any "helpful hints" you would like to share with others? 

"Canadian Camping" will be glad to publish them. 

We look forward to hearing from you, please write: 

Mr. Brian Blackstock, Editor 
c/o Canadian Camping 
102 Eglinton Avenue E. Suite 203 
Toronto, Ontario M4P 1E1 

(4l6) 488-7345 







SOMF IDEAS ON SONG-LEADING 


From the Training Resource Library 
Boy Scouts of Canada 
Greater Toronto Region 

1* Be Confident - Assume everyone is 
going to sing and wants to sing. 

2. Variety is the Keynote - The first 
song should be a familiar one that 
the group likes to sing. The se¬ 
cond song could be an easy, action 
song.* Intermingle different types 
of songs throughout your program, 
as well as different tempos. 

3* Be Prepared - Know exectly what songs 
you are going to sing. 

4. The Group, Not the Song is Important 
Always keep in mind that the group is 
singing mainly for fun . Try not to 
put them through a dull, laborious 
period of drills. 


5* Teach at least one new song , if your 
program is over 15 minutes in length. 

6. Consider the Total Program - Try to 
pick songs to suit the occasion. 

Your last couple of songs should set 
the mood for the next part of the 
program. 

7. Enjoy Yourself - Your enthusiasm, 
facial expression, and spirit will be 
caught by the group. 

8. Stand Where You Can Be Seen and Heard 
by All 

9. Your Hands - Use them to control beat 
and volume. 

10. A Question of Tempo 

a) Sentimental, Sacred and Slow Songs 
Try not to let these kind of songs 
get too slow and "draggy". Strike 
a happy medium. 

b) Slowing Down at the End of the 
Song - Try to keep the songs at the 
same tempo throughout. Don* t start 
out with a good beat, then drag 
near the end. 


11. Keep a File or List - Start now to 
accumulate songs that your group 
likes to sing. . Keep a record of fa¬ 
vorites and a list of the songs you 
sing from day to day. 

12. Be Yourself - You are you and can be 
no one else. Don't try to copy some¬ 
one else's methods of song-leading 
unless you can do so naturally. 

13* To Use or Not to Use a Songbook ? 

When leading a new song or one with 
"tricky" words a book helps. Also 
people get security from a songbook. 
Consider the songbook as a teaching 
aid. Use the books when you need 
them; put them aside when you don't. 

14. Praise the group when they do well - 
this will give you both confidence. 

15* Remember SingSongs are for FUN! 


Handbookfor CAMP NURSES and other 

Camp Health Workers 

MARY LOU HAMESSLEY. R.N. 

“I cannot be too enthusiastic about this book; it meets H 
heretofore unmet need. Every camp nurse and camp 
worth its registration fee should have a copy. ” 

—American Journal of Nursing 

“ . . well-written,pleasant to read , with accurate and 
detailed information involving all aspects of camp life. ” 

—The Canadian Nurse 


Content* 

i The Camp VI Camp Clothes 

II The Camp Nurse vHI Camp Food 

III The Camp Health Center VIII The Weather at Camp 

IV Camp Sanitation IX Camp Illness and Injuries 

V The Camp Health Program X Pre*Camp Training for Counselors 

” 224pp., fflus., flex., 1977, $6.90 ~~ 

WE SHIP SAME DAY ORDER IS RECEIVED 

Th« Tirssias Press, Inc., Dspt. F 
116 Pinshurst Ava. ( NYC 10033 

I enclose $_(including 35<t tor 

postage and handling . ',end: _copies of Handbook 

NAME _ 

ADDRESS ___ 


11 



A WOODCRAFT IDEA 


A sensory nature trail will put the emphasis on par¬ 
ticipating with the environment. Have signs that say 
’’TOUCH ME", "SMELL ME", and "TASTE ME". Locate beau¬ 
tiful views.... highlight places that can only be seen 
by lying on your back, or getting down on hands and 
knees. Identify areas where only crawling will enable 
the participant to see fully what there is to see. 


RIPPED CANVAS ? 

If you have a tear in your canvas canoe, let the area 
around the tear dry thoroughly. Tear a piece of 
FACTORY COTTON the size of the tear. Moisten well 
with AMBROID* glue and place over the rip. Let dry. 
Sand lightly until it is smooth again. Paint. This 
is an easy, but excellent way to repair the canvas. 

It will last as long as the canoe and usually not 
blister or wrinkle. 

* AMBROID is a brand name. It's expensive, but works 
better than anything we've tried yet. 


1 


§. CAMP £ 

JLti me ml 

'S time for 

PRINTED NAME TAPES 


ALL CAMPERS' CLOTHING AND 
BELONGINGS 

should be marked for easy identification- 
losses are costly. 

CAMP LINEN AND EQUIPMENT, TOO, 
should be marked to avoid confusion 
and loss. 

NAMES OR NUMBERS CAN BE 
SUPPLIED. 

Order CASH'S NAME TAPES from 
department stores and other dealers — 
or direct from 

CASH'S 

CANADA LABELS LIMITED 

BOX 70, STATION S 
MONTREAL. QUEBEC 

PRINTED NAME PRICES 

6 doz. $3.20 9 doz. $3.65 

12 doz. $4.50 24 doz. $5.50 

No C.O.D.s. Please mail cheque or 
money order. 

Please include appropriate 
Provincial Sales Tax. 




•* timiv 




b 



6TTC-900 NSSI 


T3T d+?W otub^uq ‘o^uoaoj 
£0F # *3 enueAv uo^ujx% FOT 

UOTq.'BTOOSSV SuxdmBQ uexp-eueo 













