- Canadian 

CCIflipiAQ 

CAMPING...OUR PAST, PRESENT and FUTURE. 



c.r. blackstock 

L.B. Sharp came to Toronto in 1940, and told 
us it was time to give camping back to the 
campers. Sharp was the director of Life 
Magazine Camps out of New York City. He was 
a pioneer in U.S. camping and had proved it 
could be done with youth from the slums. 
Groups of 8 campers with 2 good leaders were 
camping successfully in the New Jersey moun¬ 
tain owned and operated by the Time-Life 
Company. 


Sharp argued that we should all have a pur¬ 
pose for our camps, that we should know what 
we are trying to do, and, that the purpose should be well stated. Also the eampers 
should be able to decide what kind of programme they wanted to follow. This as¬ 
sumed the camper group was small enough to go its own way. Purposes for each cam¬ 
per group had to be feasible enough within the framework of the site, facilities, 
equipment and leadership resources. 


Some of the purposes put forward were: to have a camper learn to love a horse; to 

be a champion swimmer, to be a basketball player; to be a mountain climber; to be 
£ (cont. on page 3 ) 



OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 

THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION / L'ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU CANADA 


SUITE 203. 102 EGUNTON AVENUE EAST 
TELEPHONE (416) 488-7345 


TORONTO. ONTARIO M4P 1E1 Vol. 30 No. 3 

Mhy 1978* 













A Director's Checklist 


by Eanswythe Flynn 



This is the last chance to do a double-take on all the Ins and Outs of good camping.. 
..check the grounds, oversee repairs, painting and replacements to be satisfied that 
they have been completed. Go over the list of preparations we have made for you in 
the past issues of Canadian Camping. If anything is still not as you would like it 
in your own situation... .then DO IT NOV/! 


JUNE 

There should be little to list, actu¬ 
ally, at this time of year. You might 
check to see that you have this year's 
Test Sheets for canoeing and swimming 
awards, enough to last the summer. If 
there are any other new forms you should 
be using, order the supply now. 

Your Staff Manual should be distributed 
to all your staff members by the end of 
the first week of June at the latest. 

Continue to send drinking water and swim¬ 
ming water samples to Provincial Depart¬ 
ments of Health at their required inter¬ 
vals. 

Check with Departments of Lands and For¬ 
ests or Ministries of Natural Resources 
about canoe routes and hiking areas, and 
the cost, if any of sending groups over 
Government owned property. 

Be sure that staff contracts have been 
received and all their necessary forms 
signed. The information letter concern¬ 
ing their arrival at camp and other per¬ 
tinent information should be mailed to 
your staff. 

Set up the Infirmary. Check supplies 
(see page 7 of February's Canadian 
Camping). Have they been delivered As 
ordered? Are campers' Health Forms 
and their Doctors' Certificates coming 
in? Have you enough file cards for your 
records and a suitable place to file 
them? 


Check on final arrangements for the pre¬ 
camp staff session and make certain all 
is in readiness for the arrival of the 
staff. 

Prepare for the arrival of kitchen staff. 
Supervise their training. Be sure that 
they understand the provincial health 
regulations and the importance of abso¬ 
lute cleanliness in this area, not only 
for the Health Inspectors, but for every¬ 
day cooking, eating and cleaning. 

Check garbage disposal system, cleanli¬ 
ness of garbage pails and efficiency of 
garbage removal to the town dump, com¬ 
post heap, or other local area. 

Check grounds for loose nails and bro¬ 
ken glass, boards or logs out of place 
on paths, around buildings or anywhere 
campers may walk or run, for any holes 
or open pits which could be a hazard. 

Prepare for arrival of campers. Have 
staff ready with lists of names and 
oabin groups, trained to meet parents 
and give a warm welcome to campers. 

FROM HERE ON... MAY YOUR SUMMER BE A 
HAPPY, HEALTHFUL ONE. 


"The secret of success is constancy of 
purpose." 

- Disraeli 


2 






r*\ 


r*\ 




CAMPING ... . OUR PAST, PRESENT AND FUTURE (cont. from page 1 

to be a wilderness canoe tripper; an actor; a nruscician; a better scholar; and, not 
least, a good all-round skilled, well-adjusted person who loved the outdoors. 

Many agreed. 

The pioneers in camping in Canada were YMCA and YWCA leaders, educators and church 
leaders. Most programmes had a religious content, the Canadian Standard Efficiency 
Programme (C.G.I.T., Trail Rangers and Tuxis Boys) was developed in the first two 
decades of this century - the purpose to develop a "four square" person. The Boy 
Scouts developed programmes at the same time. 

The Y's were amo. g the first to recognize the value of the new educational philoso¬ 
phy. Applied to camping the individual was recognized as unique, should have more 
choice in what he wanted to do or become, that he should be responsible for his own 
actions and take the consequences. 

Many of the leaders in camping came from the schools and colleges. Camping in "the 
thirties", was subjected to the "tests and measurements" wave that went through edu¬ 
cation generally. Camping people had made great claims of how good it was for the 
health of the campers. All that fresh air, vigorous activity, and the "roughing it" 
experiences had to be good. 

Camping became self-conscious and began measuring the effects of the experience. 
Social values, behaviorial changes, health changes, learning increments. Soon we had 
all kinds of standards established against which camps could be given performance 
ratings. The Camping Associations "policed" their members and made conforming to the 
standards a necessary condition for membership. 

In "the forties" camping began to be recognized as a possible complementary part of 
public education. Camping was recognized as providing vivid learning with the real 
thing right in your hand. Gordon Young, a Canadian who went to New South Wales, set 
up the first school camps there. Late in the decade a few were tried in Canada. And 
the Department of Education began to include it as Outdoor Education. 

The shift from the classroom, initiated by the school camping group, to where the 
real action was continued through "the fifties" Social Studies, geography, history, 
science, biology, conservation, all were studies on site. 

f . 

In the "sixties and seventies', camping has responded to the need parents and our 
__(cont. on page 12 )_ 


3 



Report 


r*\ 


LIAISON ¥ITH NATIONAL AGENCIES COMMITTEE 


Qie of the recommendations of the Task Force on Canadian Camping was that the 
C.C.A. initiate stronger liaison with other national organizations and associations. 

More effective communication should result in more effective treatment of 
mutual concerns and interests. 


In response the executive established the Liaison with National Agencies 
Committee to open up channels of exchange. 

This committee has had several meetings and received very positive results 
and comments from an exploratory letter and form sent out to over 40 national 
agencies and associations. Following is a list resulting from the committee's 
efforts. Some contacts are still being sought so this is not a final list. 


The contacts have been categorized into lists based on the suggested inten- 

which seems appropriate at this point in time , 
on file in the C.C.A. office (416) 488-7345. 


sity of liaison with the C.C.A 
The addresses of the following are 

A. 

Boys and Girls Clubs of Canada 
Boy Scouts of Canada 
Canadian Recreational Association 
The Canadian Red'Cross Society 
Canadian Yachting Association 
Royal Life Saving Society of Canada 
The Salvation Army 
The National Council of YMCA's of Canada 
Girl Guides of Canada 
National Interchurch Canp Committee 
Christian Camping International 

B. 


C. 

Canadian Association of Rehabilitation 

Personnel 

Canadian Bar Association 

Canadian National Institute for the Blind 

Canadian Rehabilitation Council for the 

Disabled 

Canada Safety Council 

Canadian Ski Association 

The Muscular Dystrophy Association of 

Canada 

National Institute on Mental Retardation 


Canadian Association for Health and Physical Education 
Canadian Parks and Recreation Association 
National and Provincial Parks Association of Canada 
Synchro Swim Canada 

St. John Ambulance _ 




C ANA_DIANJIAMPING 


/ 


"Let us not be blind to our differences- 
but let us also direct attention to our 
common interests and the means by which 
those differences can be resolved. And 
if we cannot end our differences, at least 
we can make the world safe for diversity.V 


is published 6 times a year 

SUBSCRIPTION RATES 

1 year $5.00 
3 years $12.00 


J.F.E 


Advertising Rates on request 




4 





Editorial 


MIRACLES 


The summer of "Seventy-eight " is on the horizon and, like each summer 
before it, it will be unique, it must stand or fall on its own merit. At our 
Camps a hundred thousand miracles will happen... the miracle of learning to 
move through the water by ourselves - the miracle of a morning sunrise - the 
miracle of touching the earth - the miracle of a chance meeting from which the 
flowers of friendship unfolds. Miracles such as these happen at most camps, 
most summers. What makes each summer unique, of course, is the mix of people 
at our Camps. Each year the result of this mixing of human chemistry creates 
its own unique spirit and character. As leaders we cannot totally control 
what the result will be BUT we can give it some direction. If we determine 
before Camp begins what standards, what goals and, what values we are going 

to set for ourselves - and then fight to implement them during Camp, 

surely the kids will have a better summer. What this country needs are men 
and women with some visions! We had precious few in the Sixties and, the 
Seventies have yet to reveal many either. What better environment than in 
one of our summer camps to develop some of these people? Whether it is by 
the Atlantic shore dreaming of mining the oceans OR. in Quebec dreaming of a 
way to say in French and English those words all Canadians are waiting to hear, 
OR by an Ontario lake dreaming of how we can preserve this wilderness, which 
is unique in all this world, for our children OR on a Western river dreaming 
of how we can keep that fabulous sky over our heads clean and free from our 
contamination OR on a mountainside in British Columbia looking over a camp 
fire toward a scarlet sun setting in an ocean, dreaming about how we can save 
it from man's seemingly limitless powers to pollute and pillage. What better 
breeding grounds for visionaries? 

As the summer approaches and we all look forward to "rekindling the 
fires of friendship" let us dedicate ourselves to making our Camps places 
not only where kids will have fun, not only will they learn to love their 
land but, also, places where some few will be able to reach the top of the 
mountain - see the miracle of the "VISION SPLENDID" and then, in their turn 
lead us toward a world which we can leasn to love better and to leave bette r 


5 









KITCHEN WASTE FOR THE 
ENVIRONMENT 


by Sam G. Hambly 

Kitchen wastes can be a valuable resource for the ecology and conservation 
features of the camp program 

The soil, water, sunlight and air are basic elements in determining the quali¬ 
ty of environment. These are essential for the production of plants that provide 
food, shelter and beauty for the animal kingdom. Man is the thinking, reasoning 
species of this group. By the creative use of technological inventions, campers 
can assist nature in improving the quality of the camp environment. Kitchen wastes 
can provide a valuable resource for this purpose. Campers willingly provide the 
labour activity required. 


In strolling through the woods, pick up a handful of duff. The skeletonized 
leaves of a deciduous tree reveals the action of forest bacterial and fungi, in 
consuming organic matter for soil making. Composting is a means of using this na¬ 
tural process by which all manner of organic waste is transferred to valuable black 
gold - fertile top-soil for plant production. 


For composting organic camp kitchen waste at camp, all organic waste (any 
plant and animal remains, bones) from the d ining hall and kitchen should be assembled 
in separate containers. In a convenient location set out ^"12 foot diameter circle 


of snow fence. The snow fence may be supported by stakes or set inside a circular 
wall of spaced, removable cement blocks. Inside the circle of snow fence lay down 
an 18 inch deep layer of dry organic material. This may be hay, straw, grass, etc. 
from the camp grounds of duff collected from the floor of the forest - any dry plant 


remains. In the centre of the pile set sT' 45 gallon steel drum from which the top 
and bottom have been removed. This provides a funnel to channel the kitchen wastes 
dumped into the barrel into the centre of the heap. The area between the barrel and 
the snow fence should be covered with dry organic material, - hay, straw, duff, etc. 
well above the level of the bottom of the barrel. The top of the barrel should be 
fitted with a tigh t-fitting screee n to exclude the flies. When half full the barrel 
should be rocked, raised and more dry material added between the barrel and the 

I, — -* 1 ■■ --— ^ 

fence. jf (cont. on page 7 ) 


6 
























KITCHEN WASTE FOR THE ENVIRONMENT (cont. from page 6 ) 

This arrangement requires constant attention to avoid upsetting the balance 
and causing offensive odours. Compost production can be the responsibiltiy of the 
maintenance, conservation or ecology department of the camp program. It must be 
serviced regularly. With care and attention it works. 

For continuous results at the conclusion of the camp period the compost 
should be repiled to admit air for bacterial action. This step will produce of¬ 
fensive odours and for this reason should be avoided during the camp period. 

By the second season the compost pile of tne previous year will have matured 
to the point at which it is ready for shredding. A shredder is a technological gim¬ 
mick with a belt fitted with saw-toothed steel bars and driven by a motor (which 
polutes the atmosphere). However, forking the compost into the hopper and watching 
it come spewing out is good sport for the campers. 

Shredded compost has the pleasant woodsy earth-like odour of forest soil. It 
is rich in vital elements of plant growth, as proven by soil testing. At camp it 
can be used for earthworm culture. The campers propagate bait for fishing trips. 

Examination with the camp microscope will reveal a variety of animal life 
livingamd thriving in the compost heap. This makes composting a valuable resource 
for the ecology department. 

In conservation at camp the compost can be used by the campers for mulching 
the camp garden plants, thus improving the fertility of the garden plot. Hence 
the garden plot soil is made open and porous. It absorbs the rain and the melting 
sr.ow water. Underground reservoirs are filled up. Hence, the water emerges to 
provide crystal clear water for swimming and canoeing. High quality environment 
for waterfront sports depends on our use of the watershed. Hence, campers who like 
to have quality conditions on the waterfront have a responsibilty for the conserva-« 
tion practices of the watershed. 

Mature compost from a previous year should be sprinkled over the entire sur¬ 
face of the new heap at regular intervals. This is a good means of stimulating the 
action of the culture. Manure is ideal for this purpose. 

Other uses for compost from kitchen wastes are starting tree, vegetable, do¬ 
mestic and wild flower seedlings. It is most effective for use in a fluorescent 
light plant growth chamber. (cont. on page 9) 




HEALTH 


ASTHMA AT CAMP 


Mild asthma can be managed in a camp setting. The camper can participate 
in most activities except if it exposes the child to allergens to which he is 
susceptible. Exercise and stress can also trigger an asthmatic attack. 

Preparation of medical and counselling staff can minimize the disruption. 
caused by mild asthatic attacks. This preparation begins by asking, briefly, if 
the prospective camper has any medical problems, on the initial application form. 
If there are medical problems, a special, more detailed form is then sent to the 
parents to be returned a number of weeks before camp starts. The information 
thus provided allows the medical staff to stock the dispensary, educate the 
counselling staff how to deal with the problem, and to place the child in an 
environment as free of allergens as possible. 

The children must bring all their medications with them and these must be 
kept and dispensed by the medical staff. Prior to out-trips, the counsellor 
should be instructed about the medications. 

If an asthmatic attack occurs, the counsellor removes the camper from the 
activity and begins breathing exercises. This will often abort the attack, 
per mi tting the child to resume activity. If the attack continues, the camper 
should be taken to the medical staff who will administer his medication and ob¬ 
serve the camper until the attack subsides. If the attack fails to respond, 
the child should be transported to a local medical facility. 

There have been two recent death from anaphylactic reation following 
an allergy injection in a doctor's office. We advise that campers not be given 
their allergy injection in the camp setting. Parents can arrange to have the 
injection immediately before and after the camp period. If the family doctor 
feels it is essential that the injections be given during the camp period, then 
we strongly suggest that the camper be taken to a local medical centre for the 
injection, as a preferable alternative to administering it at camp. 

Generally, however, asthmatics have little, if any, difficulty at camp. 
With few exceptions they need not be restricted from participating in this 
wholesome experience. 

This is a summary of a talk given to the Society of Camp Directors 

by Dr. S.M.L. Kirkpatrick 




PROGRAM 


PROGRAM IDEAS FOR COUNSELLORS 

YOU DON'T HAVE TO WAIT TILL IT'S WET! 

- here are a few old and new ideas for Counsellors for rainy days, but suitable 
anytime. 

" The Band " - have your campers make their own percussion instruments (washtubs, 
buckets, pot lids, frying pans are good). Practice a couple of 
popular camp songs, then accompany the camp during a singsong. 

Light fires in the rain - have the cabin break into pairs and set up a competition. 

Give them some hot chocolate so they can make something 
hot to reward themselves, for their efforts. 

Set up a PingPong Tournament with another cabin (Plan this ahead of time and let 

your kids know. They will have something to look for¬ 
ward to and to prepare for. 

"The Wet Look " could be the title of a series of pictures your campers take of 

"Camp in the Rain" which might be displayed in the Lodge at a later 

date. 

"Who Am I? " - a game you can play in your cabin using ONLY camp personalities as 

your characters. 

e ke Canoe Shelters -~then try sleeping in them that night - other kids will 

interested and see how it is done. 

Bingo! - have your cabin sponsor an evening of bingo on a rainy night. Have the 

campers negotiate with the senior camp staff. They might exchange doing 

some Camp Work Project for prizes they can give out at their bingo. 



KITCHEN WASTE FOR THE ENVIRONMENT (cont from page 7 ) 

Camp personnel should not be misled by thinking that the disposal of kitchen garbage 
by composting is easy, it requires the interest, co-operation and support of all camp 
personnel. It can provide basic ecological and conservation concepts for creating 
quality environment. 

Mr. Hambly is the Director of Camp Allsaw, a Natural Science Camp in Halliburton, Ont 


Take a step in the right 
direction. Take a few. 



Walk a MnckTiHlay. 


Get your rear in gear. 
Take a walk. 



Walk a Mim k.Todav. 


Walk a block a day. - 
It’s the first step. 


if 


pj#wi(v(r>onm 
Walk a Mm-k.Today. 


9 





























HIRING STAFF? 


IMMIGRATION REGULATIONS CONCERNING CAMP STAFF FROM FOREIGN COUNTRIES 

In a letter to Mr. Jack Pearse, President of the Canadian Camping Association, 

Mr. Duncan R. Campbell, Executive Director, Labour Market Policy of the Ministry 
of Employment and Immigration, 305 Rideau Street, Ottawa, Ontario K1A 0J9 says: 

ii While it was agreed that job offers made to foreign camp 
counsellors were not to be exempt from Manpower validation in 1978, 
our further review of the situation indicates that a change now, to 
take place for this summer, would pose difficulties. As you are 
aware, the revised Immigration Act and Regulations are to be implemented 
April 10, 1978. In order to minimize the administrative difficulties 
on CCA members and the foreign camp counsellors they wish to recruit, 
it has been decided that the present exemption from Manpower Certifica¬ 
tion will be retained for the 1978 summer season, with the change 
likely coming this fall. 

In the meantime, your cooperation in notifying CCA members of 
the administrative changes resulting from the implementation of the 
revised legislation would be appreciated. Under the provisions of the 
new legislation, non—immigrants wishing to work in Canada must obtain 
employment authorization prior to their arrival at a port of entry. 

Camp operators wishing to recruit foreign camp counsellors should 
forward these persons a detailed offer of employment as soon as 
possible. The letters should clearly establish that the employer 
is a member in good standing of the Canadian Camping Association. 

The prospective employee should then contact the responsible Canadian 
post abroad in order to initiate processing of his/her application 
for employment authorization. Once the necessary documentation has 
been issued the person may then proceed to the Canadian port of entry. 1. 

The new procedure requires the employee to arrange for Employment Authorization 
Form Tmm, 1102 ) from their nearest or appropriate Canadian Embassy or Consulate. 

The employee must have an employment letter from the camp director and must send, 
or take that letter to the Embassy or Consulate to receive the Employment Authori ¬ 
zation Form . Therefore two copies of the letter are suggested. The letter should 
state that the camp is an accredited member of the Canadian Camping Association, 
and that the foreign employee will be working from (date) to (date) as a camp 
counsellor or in similar leadership roles. 

The letter and the Employment Authorization must both be presented at the border 
point of entry. If the foreign staff is already in Canada the document must 
be obtained at a Canada Manpower Centre. 

In addition, the employee must have a social insurance number to work in Canada. 


BRITAIN 

LONDON Canada House, Trafalgar Square, Entrance 
on Pall Mall East, London, SW1Y 5BJ. Tel. (01) 
930-9741. 

-BELFAST The Canadian Consulate, 22 North Street, 
Belfast 1, BT1 1LA. Tel. (0232) 27365/6. 


-BIRMINGHAM The Canadian Consulate, Bristol and 
West Bldg., 2 St., Philips Place, Birmingham, B3 2QJ. 
Tel. (021)233-2127. 

-GLASGOW The Canadian Consulate, Ashley House, 
181/195 West George Street, Glasgow. G2 2HS. Tel. 
(041) 248-3026. 








10 




FRANCE 

PARIS The Canadian Embassy Consular Section, 4, 
rue Ventadour, 75001 Paris. Tel. (01) 073-15-83. 

BORDEAUX The Canadian Consulate General, 15 
allees de Chartres, 33080-Bordeaux. Tel. (056) 
52-36-89/90/91. 

MARSEILLE The Canadian Consulate General, 24, 
Avenue du Prado, 13006 Marseille. Tel. (091) 
37-19-37/40. 

STRASBOURG The Canadian Consulate General, le 
Kleber Center, 10 Place du Temple Neuf, 67007 Stras¬ 
bourg. Tel. 32-65-96. 

ISRAEL The Canadian Embassy, 220 Hayarkon, P.O. Box 
6410, TEL AVIV. Tel 228122/6. 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

WASHINGTON The Canadian Embassy, 1746 Massa¬ 
chusetts Avenue N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036. Tel. 
(202) 785-1400. 

ATLANTA The Canadian Consulate General, 900 
Coastal States Bldg., 260 Peachtree St., Atlanta, Georgia 
30303. Tel. (404) 577-6810. 

BOSTON The Canadian Consulate General, 500 Boyl- 
ston Street, Boston, Mass. 02116. Tel. (617) 262-3760. 

BUFFALO The Canadian Consulate, One Marine Mid¬ 
land Centre, Suite 3550, Buffalo, New York 14203. Tel. 
(716)852-1247. 

CHICAGO The Canadian Consulate General, Suite 
2000, 310 South Michigan Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 
60604. Tel. (312) 427-1031. 


CLEVELAND The Canadian Consulate, Illuminating 
Building, 55 Public Square, Cleveland, Ohio 44113. Tel. 
(216) 771-0150. 

DALLAS The Canadian Consulate, 2001 Bryan Tower, 
Suite 1600, Dallas. Texas 75201. Tel. (214) 742-8031. 

DETROIT The Canadian Consulate, 1920 First Federal 
Building, 1001 Woodward Ave., Detroit. Michigan 48226. 
Tel. (313) 965-2811. 

LOS ANGELES The Canadian Consulate General, 510 
West Sixth St., Los Angeles, California 90014. Tel. (213) 
627-9511. 

MINNEAPOLIS The Canadian Consulate, 15 South 
Fifth Street, Minneapolis. Minnesota 55402. Tel. (612) 
336-4641. 

NEW ORLEANS The Canadian Consulate General, 
Suite 2110. International Trade Mart. 2 Canal Street, 
New Orleans. Louisiana 70130. Tel. (504) 525-2136. 

NEW YORK The Canadian Consulate General, 1251 
Avenue of the Americas, 16tn floor, New York, N.Y. 
10020. Tel. (212) 586-2400. 

PHILADELPHIA The Canadian Consulate, Suite 1310. 
Three Parkway Building. Philadelphia, Pa. 19102. Tel. 
(215) 561-1750. 

SAN FRANCISCO The Canadian Consulate General, 1 
Maritime Plaza. Golden Gateway Centre, San Francisco, 
Calif. 94111. Tel. (415) 981-2670. 


SEATTLE The Canadian Consulate General, 412 Plaza 
600, Sixth and Stewart Sts., Seattle, Washington 98101. 
Tel. (206) 447-3804. 


NATIONAL 


AUDIO CASSETTE ORDER FORM 


CONFERENCE 


Please check 
tire order 
1-1 
_ 1-2 

— !-3 

— 1-4 
_ 1-5 

1-6 


NAME 


ADDRESS 


or indicate the number of each cassette desired and return this en- 
Please enclose $3.50 for each cassette ordered. When 10 or more 

tapes are purchased in one 


form. 

Selecting a Site - Ruth Mowat 
Finance and Legislation - Ron Johnstone 
Effective Administration - Ken Willis 
Conserve Society - Craig Copeland 
Maintenance and Building - Wilf Jackson 
There's More to P.R. - Punch Jackson 


2-1 Help a Child Grow - Gordon Jasper 

2-2 Expectations - Bruno Morawetz 

2-3 To Whom Directors Answer - Shanley Parkinson 

2-4 Human Climate in Camp - Jean Funk 

2-5 Will Staff Return - Bob Slingerland 

2- 6 Needs of Children - Patterson and Owen 

3- 1 High A. Q. Programs - l^ayotte and Delainey 
3-2 Program Models - Elaine King 

3-3 Devel. Nature Program - Bob Cameron 
3-4 Devel. Prog. Goals - Lome Bowering 
3-5 Yr. Around Prog. Ideals - Ted Yard 
3-6 New Prog. Ideas - Austin Matthews 


PHONE 


order, cost is $3.00 each. 
We will pay postage. 

Please enclose this entire 
order form when placing an 
order, a new form will be 
sent to you when the order 
is filled. 

TOTAL TAPES ORDERED 


TOTAL AMOUNT ENCLOSED 


Please make cheques and money 
orders payable to M. Lee 
and send to the following 
address: 


M. LEE 
R.R. No. 1 
Port Sydney, 
Ontario 
POB 1L0 


Office Use 
Only 

Paid_ 

Mailed 


CITY 


PROV 


CODE 


11 




CAMPING..,, OUR PAST, PRESENT AND FUTURE (eont. from page 3) 

society generally for year round outdoor recreation and living. Childrens* camps have 
endeavored to give campers the basic physical skills and knowledge to travel through 

and live in the wilderness country, be it bush and lake, plains and rivers or moun¬ 
tains and desert. It has also provided specialized sports camps for the elite athlete 
in the making. 

Each of these changes has required camping people to exmaine their purposes and make 
the adjustments to better fit the current social needs and values. Most of the pio¬ 
neers have gone. The generation which took over from them are on their way out too. 

So it is a good time now for camp directors and educators to look ahead to the next 
two decades and select or alter their purposes to suit those times which will be dif¬ 
ferent but no less interesting, challenging and rewarding than the previous ones have 
been to their predecessors. And it's a time when we shouldn't try to be too practi¬ 
cal. Living dangerously is a vibrant stimulator to vigorous action. 

"Where there is no vision, the people perish." 

Mr. Blackstock has been involved with camping for 50 years. He has directed Bolton 
Fresh Air Camp, Camp Pinecrest and Mazinaw. He is a Consultant with the National 
Sport and Recreation Centre in Ottawa. 


r*\ 




6IIC-800 NSSI 


131 dt>W OIUV1NO 'OiNOHOl 
1SV3 3 n N3 AV N01NI193 ZOl ZOZ 31inS 

opouD.y np sduw.y sop uopopossn 
uonoposso Sufduwo iwipouDo 




