CANADIAN CAMPING 




CENTENARY 
VOYAGE DU CENTENAIRE 


TjBoar 


Jmak. 


f 

Ml 


186711967 


•;uo ‘ITTH puonujDTy 
‘•%s puoitqoTH 5:61 
♦qoooqua * r ’ h\ 1 paw put? 'aw 

VOVCTilHOIU 





SEASONS 

GREETINGS 

from 


BIIUSONS FOODS LIMITED 

49 ADVANCE ROAD TELEPHONE 239-1421 


TORONTO 18, CANADA 



CANADIAN CAMPING 


VOL. 20 AUTUMN, 1967 No. 1 

CONTENTS 


C.C.A. Comes of Age.... 

Building Self-Confidence . 

Experiment, An Educational Camp 

Among Ourselves.. 

Canada’s Second Century .. 

Paddles in the Spring. 

Sermons Under the Sun .. 

Catherine Van Wagner — a Tribute 


Douglas G. McEwen 

.Bruno Morawetz 

.Austin Matthews 

Rev. Don Atkinson 

.Ann Prewitt 

.Kirk Wipper 


Ross Paul 


4 

7 

9 

11 

12 

14 

16 

20 


CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

310 Vaughan Street, Winnipeg 2, Man. 


Honorary President 

Past Presidents 
*Taylor Statten, Toronto 
*Dais L. Gass, Montreal 
Anne I. Vail, Montreal 
W. E. (Ted) Yard, Toronto 
Irwin Haladner, Toronto 
F. M. Van Wagner, Montreal 
Kenneth H. Murray, Montreal 
Don Smith, Edmonton 
Mrs. May Brown, Vancouver 

President 

Doug. McEwen, Winnipeg 
310 Vaughan Street, 

Winnipeg 2, Man. 

1st Vice-President 
Gordon Stewart, 

217-267 Edmonton St., 

Winnipeg, Man. 

2nd Vice-President 
Mrs. Sally Shwctz, 

251 Wildwood Park, 

Winnipeg, Man. 

Vice-Presidents 

Miss Leone Wellwood, Alta. 

Rev. Don Atkinson, Man. 


— Miss Mary S. Edgar 

Mrs. J. H. Ebbs, Ont. 

Mr. A. Ross Seaman, Que. 
Rev. David Hartry, N.S. 

Secretary 

Miss Marion Searles, 
c/o Girl Guide House, 

25 Osborne St., 

Winnipeg, Man. 

Treasurer 

Miss Phyllis Trotter, 
c/o Winnipeg YWCA, 
Webb Place, 

Winnipeg, Man. 

Publisher, Canadian Camping 
Mrs. G. W\ Flynn, 

Town Talk Publications, 

75 Crescent Road, Apt. 8, 
Toronto 5. 

922-6508 

Editor 

Mrs. A. E. Harshaw, 

Apt. 704, Rideau Towers, 
35 Thorncliffe Park Drive, 
Toronto 17 
*Deceased 


Editorial Committee — 

Don Groff, Chairman, Joyce Bertram, Eanswythe Flynn, Margaret Govan, Jean 
Darrach, L. C. Lumley, Bruno Morawetz, Jack Pearse, Ann Prewitt, Kirk Wipper, 
Ted Yard. 


"CANADIAN CAMPING" IS PUBLISHED FOUR TIMES A YEAR BY TOWN TALK PUBLICATIONS. FOR 
THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION. SUBSCRIPTION RATES: MEMBERSHIP IN THE CANADIAN CAMP¬ 
ING ASSOCIATION INCLUDES "CANADIAN CAMPING": TO NON-MEMBERS. 85 CENTS PER COPY: $3.00 
PER YEAR; $8.00 PER THREE YEARS. AUTHORIZED AS SECOND CLASS MAIL, POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT. 
OTTAWA, ONT.. AND FOR PAYMENT OF POSTAGE IN CASH. 


Autumn, 1967 


3 





















CANADIAN 



by Douglas G. McEwen 
President 


CAMPING 

ASSOCIATION 

COMES 
OF AGE 


I would like to discuss three major areas of concern which I feel face our 
Association at the present time and must be dealt with within the next two years. 
These are: 

/. Services the Association must provide. 

2. Internal organization of the Canadian Camping Association. 

3. Relationships of the C.C.A. with kindred organizations and govern- 
merit. 

Association Services 

With the adoption this year of a set of Desirable Practices, camps now have 
a guide from their camping association. This is just the first step. The following- 
tilings are now required: 

/. Regular visitation of all camps through their Provincial Associations. 

2. A shift of emphasis to training of leadership to assist camps to make 
sure that the experience they provide is more than just a safe one. In 
co-operation with universities or alone the development of a certifica¬ 
tion system by the C.C.A. of camp directors should be begun 
im mediately. 

3. Aggressive representation by the camping association to seek govern¬ 
ment assistance in facilities, health and sanitation, and camper assist¬ 
ance. Further assistance must be sought to conduct study and research 
in camping as an important educational and recreational program. 

Generally, other areas also need development: 

/. The Canadian Camping Magazine—my own judgment is that this is 
an excellent magazine, at present, designed for popular readership of 
camping personnel. 1 would suggest that C.C.A. also needs to find 
a means of publishing regularly research being done by camping 
people or even find the means by which research can be stimulated , 
aided and results shared arnong Canadian camps . 


4 


Canadian Camping 







Further, there seems to be a feeling that a wider readership is pos¬ 
sible for the Canadian Camping Magazine by encouraging individual 
subscriptions as well as the automatic distribution through member¬ 
ship. This is a responsibility already assigned to the C.C.A. 

2. 7 raining programs—in addition to continuing training of leadership , 
as is the case with forthcoming regional training workshops sponsored 
by the C.C.A. with assistance of the National Fitness and Amateur 
Sport Branch , there needs to be more specialized training to meet 
specific needs of day camp personnel, church camp groupings, and 
private camp operators. 


Internal Organization 

For the first 20 years ol its life the Canadian Camping Association’s strength 
has lain in strong provincial associations. There arc many advantages to this. I 
would hope that this will continue. There is, in addition, an increasing role for 
the Canadian Camping Association to form liaisons with other National bodies 
and with the Federal Government, and an increasing need is becoming evident 
for a national office to be developed. More and more the need for a full-time 
executive officer has become apparent during the past four years while the C.C.A. 
executive has been in the Western Provinces. Because of the immense sacrifice 
of volunteer effort on the part of many people, much has been done. But much 
remains to be done. 

In order to extend its services, strengthen the internal organization and 
represent the Canadian Camping Association in broader relationships, I feel that 
a full-time Executive Secretary should be employed and supported by necessary 
stenographic assistance. 

Another internal problem of our Association is that at present the entire 
National Executive resides in Manitoba. This proximity of people ensures that 
a meeting can be called and run on short notice and at little or no expense. Infor¬ 
mation as to decisions about to be taken is shared with Provincial Associations 
but frequently no response from Provincial Associations is taken as assent and 
further many people are not consulted when such decisions are considered. An¬ 
nually your Board of Directors meets and at that time the voice of each camp 
can be heard through the representatives of Provincial Camping Associations. 
Despite disadvantages which are inevitable from the point of view of cost, I 
believe that the time is approaching when your Board must meet at least 
quarterly in addition to regular meetings of a National Executive which is located 
either in one province or spread geographically across the country. Our history 
shows a very real sensitivity on the part of past National Executives to regional 
concerns but sensitivity is not enough for our Association to be effective. Repre¬ 
sentation of your concerns and communication between members and officers is 
necessary if the Association truly seeks to sen e the needs of its members. 

Another concern is that there are still camps and groups of camps who have 
not sought membership in the National Association. No Association exists in 
Saskatchewan, some camps in the Maritimes are not members of the Association 
and the French section of the Quebec Camping Association are still not members 
of the Canadian Association. Constructive steps should be taken as soon as 


Autumn, 1967 


5 


possible to give all camps in Canada the opportunity to participate in the affairs 
of our National Association which is increasingly speaking for all of Canadian 
camping. 

Relationships 

Camping is not a word that is clearly understood in the English language. 
The dictionary suggests that camping is “pitching tents and resting”. To a 
family travelling from Toronto to Vancouver camping is one thing, to an operator 
of a trailer park, camping means something else; to an agency providing an 
experience for children, camping is something else again. Because we are called 
the Canadian Camping Association many people view us in many different ways. 
Even at the Symposium of Recreation in Montreal among a group of 25 people 
concerned with the use of leisure, the major issues raised by Kirk Wipper were 
not discussed because of an invoked discussion that developed as to what was 
meant by the word, camping. The time has come for our Association to define 
itself to the public. Further, the question of relationship with groups doing 
“camping” must be studied and decided upon. 

Another form of relationships is growing. The relationship is one between 
federal government and your Association. The Centenary Journey project, now 
in its final stages, received a grant of $12,000.00 from the National Centennial 
Commission. Travel grants for members of the Board of Directors to attend 
Annual Meetings have been received from the Fitness and Amateur Branch of 

more page 19 


WESTERN STORE EQUIPMENT 

Complete Selection of 
Used Equipment and Supplies 
for the Kitchen 


511 QUEEN ST. WEST TORONTO 2B 

Phone: 366-9457 


6 


Canadian Camping 






BUILDING SELF CONFIDENCE 


by Bruno Morawetz, Ph.D., Camp Ponacka 


Lack of self-confidence is one of the 
most common characteristics both in 
youngsters and in adults. Whether it is 
as widespread in other civilizations as 
it is in ours 1 do not know, but among 
the hundreds of boys who have passed 
through my hands well over half suffer 
a severe lack of self-confidence and al¬ 
most all of them greatly benefit from a 
booster shot. This is one area of per¬ 
sonality growth where camps can pro¬ 
vide important help. 

Motivation Can Be Instilled 

Self-confidence plays the same part 
in a human life which a spark plug 
plays in a gasoline engine. Everything 
can be in working order; tight piston 
rings, a correct mixture of fuel ready 
for explosion, a well tuned electrical 
system, but leave out the spark plug and 
the engine is no more than a lifeless 
piece of hardware. In the human being 
all ingredients may be present: a 
superior intelligence, a healthy phy¬ 
sique, good muscular coordination, 
great talents—in short, all the elements 
for a successful life may be gathered in 
the individual. However, without the 
required degree of self-confidence none 
of these qualities is brought into play. 
Most persons will immediately attribute 
the stalemate to a lack of motivation, 
which Ls correct, but they fail to realize 
that motivation can not be instilled in 
a human being except through an in¬ 
crease in self-confidence. 

Which camp director has not heard 
a mother say “John has a good I.Q. 
but he simply will not work” or “John 


has a good build for swimming, but he 
won’t try”? What the mother fails to 
realize is that John’s lack of motivation 
is due to his lack of self-confidence. 

Perhaps the experts in the field of 
psychology know exactly what causes 
lack of self-confidence; my guess is that 
it springs, to a large extent, from the 
child’s relationship with one or both of 
his parents. In my experience, it is al¬ 
most always the case that the father, 
who is a “big wheel”, has boys who 
lack self-confidence. It could be that 
the father’s status has in itself an in¬ 
timidating effect on the boy. It could 
be that the father’s efforts, expended on 
becoming and remaining a “big 
wheel”, so absorb his time that there is 
little left over for his boy. Whatever 
the causes may be—I am sure they are 
more complex than I have made them 
appear—a good camp situation can do 
a great deal to supply the camper with 
the needed spark to help him unfold 
his hidden potential. 

Make Him Aware 

The basis of success will lie, no doubt, 
in making the camper aware of his own 
worth. Every aspect of the camp pro¬ 
gramme, every manner of dealing with 
him should contribute to that goal. 

Long before he comes to camp this 
process can begin. The director can 
make the camper aware of his worth by 
writing him a personal letter upon regis¬ 
tration and asking him to let the direc¬ 
tor know what he would like to do and 
accomplish at camp. This makes him 


Autumn, 1967 


7 


feel that he is not a parcel which is 
being wrapped up and sent away. 

The moment of arrival at camp is of 
crucial importance. The first impact de¬ 
termines the camper’s attitude for many 
days, if not for the period of his entire 
stay. There must be no moment during 
which the camper may wonder “Do 
they know I am coming? Do they know 
who I am? Do they know what group 
I am assigned to? Do they know I 
wanted Bill as my cabin mate?” The 
occasion for feeling perplexed and for¬ 
lorn must be eliminated. If the campers 
arrive by bus it is a great mistake to 
have the bus disgorge its cargo all at 
once. It is much better, even if it takes 
longer, to have each camper alight 
singly and to introduce him to his coun¬ 
sellor who is waiting and ready for him. 
The counsellor, in turn, takes possession 
of his new charge, introduces himself 
and welcomes him to his group. This 
eliminates the agonizing despair of be¬ 
ing unrecognized and the craning of 
necks in search of a familiar face. Such 
a reception will immediately create the 
feeling “here I really seem to count”. 

The first few moments in his new 
cabin are of equal importance. A boy 
will have a much greater sense of worth 
if his counsellor seems to know all about 
him. It is imperative that the cabin 
counsellor learn, as much about his cam¬ 
per as possible. He should know not 
only such fundamentals as hometown, 
school and grade, age, etc., but he 
should also know about his hobbies, in¬ 
terests, musical talents, aptitudes, family 
circumstances, etc. Not only will the 
camper feel closer to his counsellor, but 
the counsellor’s closeness toward his 
camper stands in direct relationship to 
the amount of knowledge he has about 
him. The camper will have a good 
deal more confidence in his counsellor 
if he is familiar with his circumstances 
and achievements. A proper and 
thorough briefing of each counsellor 
about each camper is an essential ingre¬ 
dient in making the camper aware of 
his own worth. 


Attitude and Behaviour 

The counsellor’s attitude and be¬ 
haviour has a great deal to do with the 
building of self-confidence. He need 
not possess outstanding qualities to do 
this. One of the essentials is that he be 
“always there”. The counsellor who is 
“never there” is in fact saying “I don’t 
give a tinker’s damn about you”, while 
the counsellor who spends a great deal 
of time with his campers proves that 
he really cares. The fact of “being 
there” is more important than what he 
does. Even if he reads or writes in his 
cabin he is spreading a re-assuring glow 
over his campers. 

The child who lacks self-confidence 
often rightly suspects that his parents 
are not “really listening” to him. The 
counsellor who really listens — at all 
times, in all places, to all things—will 
greatly help in creating a sense of 
worth. 

The organization of the programme 
can do a great deal for the building of 
self-confidence. Each learning situation 
should be based on the same principle 
which is employed by teaching ma¬ 
chines. A machine requires of a student 
such a minute step forward that it will 
be almost always successful. A child 
lacking self-confidence is plagued with 
a sense of failure. As soon as he suc¬ 
ceeds he will expend additional effort. 
Every activity can be taught in this 
way. In archery he moves close enough 
to the target to succeed in hitting it. 
In crafts he starts with a project where 
the results will be satisfactory. Perhaps 
most important is the first day swim¬ 
ming test. An alert instructor will watch 
the first movements in the water and as 
soon as he sees that the child could not 
possibly pass the test he urges him not 
even to try his test, but promises to 
assess his ability at a later time. The 
camper has thus not “failed” his deep 
water test. 

No camp programme can be run 
without a certain degree of competitive¬ 
ness. Competition is both good and bad. 

morty page 18 


8 


Canadian Camping 


EXPERIMENT - - - 

AN EDUCATIONAL CAMP 


by Austin 

During the month of June school 
children are often preoccupied with 
things other than school work—things 
like being outdoors, like running bare¬ 
foot through the sand, like taking hikes 
or having a swim. Based on this prem¬ 
ise. it seemed desirable to try to intro¬ 
duce some of these free-time pursuits 
into a constructive educational experi¬ 
ence by taking a class from school, 
along with the teacher, and transplant¬ 
ing them at our YMCA resident camp 
for a week. 

Enthusiastic Support 

With the enthusiastic support of the 
Midland Public School principals and 
the Public School Board, this idea was 
enlarged to include not just one class, 
but all the grade four children in the 
school system. (Grade four was selected, 
since these children were at the opti¬ 
mum and age for the kinds of program 
and instructional activities that were 
planned.) 

The one hundred and seventy chil¬ 
dren were divided into three groups, 
each of which came to camp for five 
days — from Sunday noon to Friday 
noon — during June. Each group was 
accompanied by two teachers. During 
the organizational stage the teachers 
were given the task of designing the 
educational portion of the program and 
of recruiting sufficient high school vol¬ 
unteers to act as counsellors. The 
teachers were able also to secure volun¬ 
teer nurses for each five day period. 
The camp assumed the responsibility for 
staffing and planning the recreational 
activities and for total organization and 
co-ordination of the project. For super¬ 
vision of the recreational activities we 
were able to deploy the university stu- 


Matthews 

dents who had been engaged to prepare 
the camp for the summer. 

Program 

Taking advantage of the out-of-doors 
setting, the teachers planned their cur¬ 
riculum around nature lore, camp craft, 
marine life, water safety, sketching, 
natural history, geography and archae¬ 
ology. Many resourceful people were 
used to make these instructional times 
as meaningful as possible. Among these 
were a full-blooded Ojibway Indian, a 
representative of the Department of 
Lands and Forests, the Warden of the 
National Park, a high school geography 
teacher, a naturalist, a science teacher, 
etc. The possibilities for imaginative 
educational projects that would utilize 
the unique setting of a resident camp 
are so numerous that the teachers found 
that they could include in their five-day 
program only a fraction of the ideas 
that might have been used. 

The operation of this kind of school 
camp has many important advantages. 
Many of our “school campers” would 
never be able to attend a regular camp 
because of registration fees being out of 
reach for the family. However, this 
school camp was totally sponsored by 
Midland Public School Board and, 
therefore, no fees were charged the in¬ 
dividual camper. 

Camping with the rest of the class¬ 
mates and the teacher provides a child 
of this age with an excellent oppor¬ 
tunity to adjust to being away from 
home for the first time. Homesickness, 
contrary to our expectations, did not 
prove to be a major factor. Since these 
nine year olds were in the company of 
school friends most of the latent home¬ 
sickness tendencies were allayed. Doubt- 


Autumn, 1967 


9 



less this factor will favourably enhance tion of counsellors for our regular 
the child’s attitude towards camp and camps in future seasons, 
camping in future years — indeed to- Many factors were instrumental in 
wards all challenging and new ex- contributing to the success of this school 
periences. project. Most important was the total 

interest and support of the school offi- 
Values cials—many of whom we invited on the 

Education includes more than ab- project’s planning committee. Another 
sorbing facts. That is why this school important factor was the personalities 
camp project has many merits. A child’s and adaptability of the teachers who 
opportunity to experience group living, went to camp. Many teachers could 
and the experience of sharing respon- not have adjusted to this sort of situa- 
sibilities for the neatness of cabin and tion; however, those that accompanied 
camp, and the friendly competition in Midland’s Public School Grade Four 
sport and water games, and just the children were of the “very adaptable” 
opportunity to sit alone at the water’s variety. We found that early written 
edge are of a much greater value in communication to the parents was help- 
terms of character development and ful in interpreting the aims of the proj- 
understanding, than would be the ect and in gaining broad parental 
equivalent amount of time spent in a support. We also followed this up with 
classroom in mid-June. a mimeographed “camper’s kit” of in- 

This school camp project has some structions for the children and a pai- 
inherent advantages to the camp as ents night during which many questions 
well. We are able to make additional were answered. 

use of our camp facilities which under In summary this experiment was well 
normal circumstances would be used received and, I think, was a valuable 
during July and August only. complement to the educational process. 

It was very advantageous to both the 
The public relations value, resulting cam p an d the campers as outlined pre- 
from the many press releases and the viously. And it unquestionably has 
favourable reaction of children, parents unlimited possibilities for any communi- 
and school officials, was enormous.^ ties, cam p S an d sc hool boards that are 

Because of the school camp , we interested in an exciting and challeng- 
were able to provide longer and more j n g e d uca tional experience, 
meaningful employment for more staff Austin Matthews ^ t j le General Sec - 
people than would normally have been retary of the Mid i and YMCA and 
possible. Also we were able to observe Director 0 f the Y ’s Camp KitcKike - 
in a practical counselling situation many wana Re ^ current i y on the Board of 
high school students and this will en- the Ontario Camping Association. 
able us to make a more judicious selec- —# 

You’ll Enjoy 

SCHNEIDERS 

FAMOUS FOR QUALITY 

MEAT PRODUCTS 

J. M. SCHNEIDER LIMITED 

KITCHENER - ONTARIO 



10 


Canadian Camping 






AMONG 

OURSELVES 

In reply to our request for informa¬ 
tion that could be used in this profile 
of a Provincial Association President. 
Rev. Don Atkinson, President of the 
Manitoba Association, sent us a lively 
and interesting response. As a matter 
of fact, it pleased us so much, we de¬ 
cided to pass it on practically as it came 
to us. 



Rev. Don Atkinson, 

President, Manitoba Camping Associatio\ 


Born in Toronto in 1933, Mr. Atkin¬ 
son attended Lawrence Park Collegiate. 

He took his B.A. at Victoria, class of 

5T7 and his B.D. at Emmanuel College in the class of 1960. 


‘Tor a year after that I was part of a pilot experiment for two young ordi- 
nands called interning. We lived and worked out of Woodgreen Neighbourhood 
Houses in East Toronto, to learn the work of the inner-city first hand. After that 
I spent four years at United Mission in Sydney, N.S. and developed the art of 
keeping in just the right amount of trouble with Credit Unions, Co-ops, Labour 
Unions, the Political Party, Community Development and Adult Education. One 
of the interesting experiences was trying to develop a local chapter of the 
N.A.A.C.P. in the Negro ghetto in which the Mission is placed. 

Camping in Nova Scotia was either the Fresh Air type—lots of food and lots 
of mountain or the Church type—‘get them when they are quiet*. On January 1, 
1966, I came to Winnipeg to Robertson Church and House and United Church 
Fresh Air Camps (a three ring circus). Our Camp offers a 20-bed hospital for 
convalescents, a facility for mothers and children camping and a camp for 80 
children co-educationally. 

Hobbies—my only one is going to movies and would you believe my favorite 
star is Bridgitt Bardot. 

I served on the Training Committee of the Manitoba Camping Association 
last year and thought I would be on the Standards Committee only during 1967. 1 
am neurotic; I cannot exist without my lists. Camp is reduced to charts and 
diagrams. Heavily impressed by Hedley Dimock at the Canadian Camping 
Association Conference we are introducing some measure of participatory camp¬ 
ing at the camp this year. It ideally serves to train leaders from our local area 
to meet the needs of the kids from the same area and so functions as the means 
of community development. After a few more years, I shall let you know how 
that one works.” 


Autumn , 1967 


11 




CANADA'S 

SECOND 



Ready or not, . . . Zoom! . . . Here 
we go, shot off into the unknown of the 
next hundred years of camping in 
Canada! 

Four Questions 

What is going to happen to our par¬ 
ticular field of organized camping? 
And what has our past experience 
taught us that will be important to us 
in our immediate and distant future? 
Who?, What?, How?, and Where? 

First of all who is going to be 
running our camps? Our past exper¬ 
ience shows us that the Director is 
all-important in the character and con¬ 
duct of each camp, and yet we still do 
not ‘qualify’ our directors in the excel¬ 
lent STANDARDS that have been 
worked out. 

Perhaps we should end our indeci¬ 
sion, and begin in a small way and 
work up from there. As it is now I 
could sell my camp to the local butcher 
tomorrow and he would v,arry on as 


best he could. However, if we said that 
a camp director must have been an 
active member of the Camping Asso¬ 
ciation for at least three years, we 
could then be somewhat sure that this 
new director was ready to enter the 
field. 

Also it would be interesting and 
challenging for our local chapters to 
offer courses in Camp Directing to our 
more experienced counsellors. Such 
courses could be readily presented as 
our excellent STANDARDS again 
would prove to be a perfect outline for 
the development of lectures or informal 
talks. In this way the Canadian Camp¬ 
ing Association could provide a list of 
available qualified candidates for the 
position of Assistant Director in 
Agency, Charity, or Private camps. 
Such courses alone would be bound to 
have a beneficial effect on all camps 
over a period of time. 

WHAT is going to happen to our 
particular field of organized camping? 
This is a great big WHAT, but if you 
will bear with me a moment my crystal 
ball is clearing and many conflicting 
visions arc starting to take shape. 

An Old Conflict 

There is one old conflict that is 
fortunately eroding away as the Camp¬ 
ing Association matures and as Camp 
Directors realize that they are the 
guardians in trust of a vitally impor¬ 
tant part of a child’s education. 
Instead of gearing camps to what 
parents want, most camps have now 
set up their programs so that they 
benefit the individual child. There is 
now a wealth of experience behind the 
camping movement and, as the two 
fields of education and camping merge, 
or veer towards each other in many 
respects, it will be the child of the 
future who benefits. 

The Toronto Island School with its 
out-of-door teaching in a natural set¬ 
ting is an example of the field of 
Education entering the field of Camp- 


12 


Canadi\n Camping 



ing. They take a different group of 
sixth graders for a week at a time 
(Monday through Friday) across the 
water to their Island School where 
they live and learn together. Many of 
these children are away from home for 
the first time. 

Organized camps have grown larger, 
electricity, plumbing and sewage sys¬ 
tems have been installed. Many little 
feet have trampled the new sprouts 
and the forest is pushed back for the 
larger games. Counsellor’s automobiles 
are parked by their cabins. Campers 
learn about nature in a well set up 
Nature House with a few captive 
animals in cages. These camps veer 
closely to the school set-up. Such a 
camp could receive the highest score in 
a STANDARD’S visitation, and would 
in fact be an excellent camp; yet the 
vital necessity of living close to nature 
has almost disappeared. Out-trips are 
the only answer for such a camp. But 
where to go? 

WHERE to camp in the next 
hundred years? This is the biggest 
question of all. 

Within the next twenty-five years 
established camps will be surrounded 
by cottages, perhaps villages or cities. 
Already in the U.S. some excellent 
camps in the east and in Minnesota 
and Wisconsin have become locked-in 
by civilization. 

A Clearer Picture 

In order to gain a clearer picture as 
to where to camp in the future I talked 
with William Hueston, Superintendent 
of Algonquin Park and Regional 
Forester of the Department of Lands 
and Forests for Ontario. 

Dedicated men like William Hueston 
are well aware of the already severe 
problems of disappearing land for pub¬ 
lic use. Now 25% of the shore line of 
all lakes must be retained by the 
crown. This is a valuable protective 
measure even though many desirable 
sections, such as the whole Muskoka 
Lakes area, are already gone. 


The Department has become aware 
of the increase in the hardier type of 
tripper. One who wants to test him¬ 
self against the challenges of the far 
north or the thrills of rough water 
paddling. To meet the desires of these 
spirited souls the Department of Lands 
and Forests is setting up a number of 
“Wild River Parks”. 

These will be designated sections 
of rivers along whose shores no more 
Crown Land will be sold. Maps will 
be supplied and camping spots indi¬ 
cated. Also the rivers will be graded. 
Some will be for less experienced 
trippers while other fiercer rapids will 
be labeled “for experts only”. 

In the northern or middle sections 
of Ontario large areas are being set 
aside now and plans for their use are 
being made. In the crowded southern 
section the Department is buying land 
where it can, or obtaining easements in 
other cases. 

The demand for public camping 
grounds grows steadily year after year, 
a 10% increase on a 10% increase. 
Trailers are taking precedence over 
tents and hauled motor-boats are grow¬ 
ing in numbers and power. Mechan¬ 
ized and motorized camping by the 
public is here to stay and can only 
increase. Controls are inevitable, and 
the sooner the better if public lands 
are to survive the deluge. This is a 
‘must’ as it is safe to say that the only 
camping property available in the 
future, other than privately owned 
land, will be Crown Land. 

HOW is camping going to develop? 

In the future there is bound to be an 
even greater diversification of specialty 
camps such as dancing camps or music 
camps. Camps for the handicapped 
will spread as well as the tendency of 
regular camps to include some handi¬ 
capped children in their programs. 

Some camps will offer accredited 
summer school courses. 

more page 22 


Autumn , 1967 


13 


As part of our Outdoor Education project, I had planned to take a canoe 
journey with my fourth year graduating class in the School of Physical and 
Health Education, University of Toronto. The dates selected were May 8-10 
and in honour of Centenary year the route of the Voyageurs, the Mattawa River. 

With some misgivings, because of the extraordinary cold and unsettled 
weather, I agreed to go ahead with a fleet of ten canoes. When snow appeared 
on the branches of trees on the way to North Bay my apprehension increased. 
By taking a swollen stream from the Trans-Canada Highway to the Mattawa 
near Lac Talon, Trout Lake and a stiff north wind were avoided. This was a 
fortunate change of plans because the weather, already chilling and threatening, 
was obviously deteriorating. 

A heavily balsam covered peninsula seemed a very inviting overnight place 
and the tents were pitched well back from the water’s edge for warmth. Through¬ 
out the journey, soup and hot dishes were most welcome. Woollen blankets were 
placed inside the sleeping robes for warmth. This proved an excellent technique, 
although the twenty degree temperature really demanded Arctic robes which we 
just did not have. 

The grey dawn found a number of figures dancing by a rather large bonfire 
on the bay side and soon a very substantial, breakfast was under way. No sooner 
were the tents down than the snow came and it persisted clear to the Ottawa 


PADDLES IN THE SPRING 

Prelude to the Centennary Journey 

by Professor Kirk A. W ip per , 

University of Toronto School of Physical and Health Education , 
and Director—Camp Kandalore 


River at Mattawa town. Nonetheless, the river being in flood more than com¬ 
pensated for the driving snow. Rapids were frequent and in some places more 
than a little challenging. As trip leader, my great concern was not to capsize or 
flounder in the cold swift water. It is truly remarkable that not one canoe suc¬ 
cumbed in that entire journey, although at one point before the Talon chutes 
every canoe arrived at the foot of the rapids with at least six inches of water in it. 

When we became too damp from the snow and the rooster tails of the rapids, 
we stopped, built large bonfires and consumed soup and hot chocolate. On such 
occasions, socks and mitts and toques were dried (to grip the paddles under such 
weather conditions, it was necessary to wear socks or mitts to keep our hands 
from capitulating). 

Among the many inspiring sights were the rushing spring waterfalls eagerly 
seeking to join the Mattawa—one of the special features of the early spring. On 
the final evening as we reached the historic junction of the Mattawa and Ottawa 
Rivers, the Church bells beside the river tolled. It was a touching and certainly 
memorable finale to an unusual journey. For the men who took part, it is 
inspiring to know that they were the first to be on the route of the Voyageurs, 
the National Centenary Route in 1967. The natives along the way perhaps re¬ 
garded the project as a rather puzzling venture under such conditions. 


14 


Canadian Camping 


Suppliers to Camps, 
Lodges, Motels, etc. 

’ Sheets, Pillowcases, 

Towels, Face Cloths, 

Blankets, Spreads, 

Cots, Mattresses, 

Rugs, Drapes, 

Cutlery, Melmac Dishes, 

Duralex Glassware, 

Plastic Garbage Pails, 

Waste Baskets, Shower 
Mats and Garbage Bags 

Top Quality Merchandise, Speedy Delivery 

MH 

Hotel and Hospital Supply Limited 

1326 Gerrard St. E., Toronto 8, Ontario • 465-1131 

^___ r 

Autumn 3 1967 







®nber tfje ^»un f 


§£tmott0 


Since this issue of “Canadian Camping” treads so closely on the heels of 
December and Christmas, “The Fourth Wise Man” seems an especially timely 
selection for this column. It is chosen from “Sermons from a Summer Chapel” 
and is by Elaine Decker. “Sermons from a Summer Chapel” was designed to 
serve several purposes. Produced by the Kitchener-Waterloo YMCA Camping 
Department, “it records and preserves some of the original creative efforts of 
Camp Wabanaki campers and staff as they have expressed their religious feelings 
and thoughts " Undoubtedly “Sermons from a Summer Chapel” is the kind of 
publication that other camps across the country would find both stimulating and 
useful. 


We have all heard the story of the Three Wise men. I would like to tell 
you the story of Artaban, the other Wise Man. Upon seeing the great star, 
Artaban sold all his possessions for three precious gems and rode out to meet the 
other Magi at the Temple of the Seven Spheres. 

A few hours from the rendezvous, Artaban came across a dying man. To 
stop and help meant he wouldn t' reach the temple on time. But he did stop, 
and treated the man as only a great doctor could. 

The Magi were gone but at the temple Artaban found orders to follow them 
across the desert. He returned to Babylon and sold his sapphire to buy goods for 
his journey. Months later he reached Bethlehem and, entering a house, he learned 
from the young mother that his King had been born in a stable but had since 
fled to Egypt. 

At that moment soldiers of Herod appeared and demanded the possession of 
any newborn babies in the house. Artaban stood in the door, with a ruby in his 
hand, and said, “There are none here.” The captain departed with the jewel. 

So Artaban continued his search and the years passed. 

As an old man he entered Jerusalem and asked where the people hurried. 
“To Golgotha, for the crucifixion ” 

Artaban’s heart leaped. His King? Crucified! He hurried with the crowd, 
but he heard the screams of a girl, being dragged by soldiers. He stopped and 
asked her crime. “I am sold as a slave to pay my father’s debts.” His great 
opportunity or his last temptation? He took out his pearl, and paid the soldier. 


16 


Canadian Camping 



Suddenly the sky darkened and the earth shook. Artaban fell to the ground 
and the spirit of God appeared to the dying man. “Your search has been long, 
but thrice have you loved your Lord ” And Artaban’s dreams were fulfilled. He 
had found his King. 

Each one of us searching for our God. And what better place to find Him 
than right here at camp? Living in His beautiful world, with His children, and 
enjoying His great gift of life, we draw closer to Him. 

And we can lay a gift at His feet. Love. In our actions and speech, we can 
remember what the Spirit said to Artaban. “Verily I say unto you, inasmuch as 
thou has done it unto the least of these my brethren, thou hast done it unto me.” 

Let us pray: 

Dear Heavenly Father, 

We thank thee for thy many blessings. 

Help us to serve thee, and live together as Christians, 

Following the example of Thy Son 
That one day we may achieve eternal life, 

In Thy Heavenly Kingdom, 

Through Jesus Christ Our Lord. 

Amen. 


MONTREAL (City of Challenge and Excitement) 

DIRECTOR. CATHOLIC YOUTH SERVICES 
OF MONTREAL 

The Federation of Catholic Charities, planning organization for the 
English-speaking Catholic community of Montreal, requires a 
DIRECTOR for one of its multi-function agencies. 

The person chosen will have executive responsibility for the direction and 
administration of a program providing recreation and leisure time services, 
comprehensive day and residence camping services, and community extension 
services designed to encourage self-help methods by residents in securing 
and using necessary community resources. 

QUALIFICATIONS: A graduate degree in the social sciences or related fields: 
substantial experience in an executive or administrative position; proven 
leadership ability. Bilingualism and familiarity with social research program¬ 
ming would be decided assets. 

Salary: $10,500 -513,000 

Apply: EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 

Federation of Catholic Charities, Inc., 

1857 Boul. de Maisonneuve West, 

Montreal 25, Quebec 


Autumn, 1967 


17 



COMPUTE 

GENERAL 

HANDICRAFT 

SUPPLIES 


FOR 

SUMMER 

CAMPS 



PLEASE COME IN AND SEE OUR 
CAMP CRAFTS . . . THEY WILL 
INTEREST YOU! 

• • • 

EM. 3-5206 

284 KING ST. WEST 
TORONTO 2B, ONTARIO 


from page 8 

It is bad when campers of varied abili¬ 
ties are pitted against each other in¬ 
voluntarily and indiscriminately. The 
kind of competition which builds self- 
confidence is the one where a camper 
strives to reach a certain level of excel¬ 
lence. Failure to meet this standard is 
seldom public and never final. 

The degree of compulsion in a camp 
programme will have a strong effect on 
the level of self-confidence. Il a camper 
must be at an activity which he does 
not enjoy he feels more like a chattel 
than a human person. The camper 
who chooses all or most of his daily 
activities feels that he is the master of 
his destiny, a free individual and there¬ 
fore fully human. The wise counsellor 
will help a camper find alternatives to 
shield him from camp-wide games in 
which his lack of co-ordination will 
make him a laughing stock. The alert 
counsellor will arrange special instruc¬ 
tion in an activity for which the camper 
has a greater aptitude. Success in this 
activity (it could be a play, a musical 
talent, story telling) will bring recog¬ 
nition which in turn leads to greater 
self-confidence. 

A Feeling of Worth 

The feeling of worth will be pro¬ 
moted if everyone on the camp staff' 
pays an inordinate amount of attention 
to the most trifling details. In the busy 
life of the counsellor the loss of a 
camper’s knife or toothbrush may ap¬ 
pear very insignificant. To the camper 
it may seem of over-riding importance. 
If the meal is late, if the sailboats are 
not available a proper explanation 
makes the camper feel that he is a per¬ 
son of worth. Each staff member 
should be alert to all signs of disen¬ 
chantment and prepared to deal with 
them promptly and tactfully. 

The prescriptions outlined here may 
appear to border upon the impossible. 
Admittedly, they make inordinate de¬ 
mands on the camp director and his 
more, page 21 


18 


Canadian Camping 







from page 6 

the Department of National Health and Welfare and a sizeable grant has been 
received for the conduct of five regional training events from the same source. 
The C.C.A. has been invited to be a part of a technical sub-committee to the 
Advisory Council of Fitness and Amateur Sport and as such to submit plans for 
long range development to which the Federal Government might consider making 
grants. We are an organization worthy of support, ftinds are available, and it is 
now time for us to state clearly where we are going and what we are about. 

In Conclusion 

I am impressed that the Canadian Camping Association is a large organi¬ 
zation representing a vital program for Canadians and I feel that we are con¬ 
fronted with great challenges which, when met, can mean improved standards 
of camping, better trained and qualified leadership in camps and a strong voice 
in councils planning to meet the needs of Canadians. 

I am impressed that the time has come for your National Executive to 
assume a role of creative initiative. Shortly, you will receive several papers out¬ 
lining proposed action by the Canadian Camping Association. Your reaction to 
these papers is important and should be communicated through your provincial 
association or directly to me as your President. 

Finally, your executive is impressed that the C.C.A. is an association of 
members joined together for common purposes and hence that all of us as 
members must be concerned with and have a voice in policy and program. I, for 
one, look forward to the Association. —• 


MEDICAL 
SUPPLIES 
FOR CAMPS? 

Starkmans of course, because we have been supplying all the major 
camps for over 37 years. 

Starkmans wholesale division gives you one source of supply—fast 
service, and all orders are shipped the same day received. 

You are sure of the finest First Aid equipment, drugs and medicines, 
call or write, and remember low, low prices prevail at Starkmans. 

STARKMAN 

“3n the Sexvice of Medicine’ CHEMISTS LIMITED 

1243 Bathurst St., Toronto 
535-3103 


Autumn , 1967 


19 




CATHERINE 

VAN WAGNER 

A TIMlllTE 


by Paul Ross 


For the first time since Camp 
Nominingue was founded in 1925, 
Catherine Van Wagner, affectionately 
known by camper and staff' member 
alike as Mrs. Van, had missed a camp¬ 
ing season. Her death, on June 5, 1967, 
saddened the hearts of many hundreds 
of campers, for it was impossible for 
anyone at Nominingue not to know 
and love her. 

With her husband, F. M. Van 
Wagner, she shared the tremendous 
sense of purpose that has built Camp 
Nominingue—to expose as many Cana¬ 
dian boys as possible to the joys of 
camping and canoe tripping, and to 
teach them to be “everywhere at home” 
in the out-of-doors. 

Mrs. Van’s greatest contribution was 
through the nature programme. She 
could usually be found near the Nature 
Cabin, and no matter what the time of 
day, she was invariably surrounded by 
eager, inquisitive campers of all ages. 
In her own quiet, sincere way, she 
taught many boys and counsellors more 
about Canada—her trees, flowers, birds 
and animals. It was never just facts 
that she passed on, but a love, an 
awareness and a quiet feeling of pride 
in our natural resources. Her con¬ 
tribution was identified with all that 


camping stands for—adventure, chal¬ 
lenge, pride in skills and knowledge, 
and a rewarding sense of accomplish¬ 
ment. But most of all, she conveyed 
a tremendous joie de vivre , an 
unbounded love of life, a great infec¬ 
tious enthusiams for all that is simple, 
unspoiled and beautiful. 

Unlike so many who believe strongly 
in something, Mrs. Van never tried to 
impose her beliefs on anyone. She 
served rather to help those fortunate 
enough to know her to find the richness 
and true beauty of God’s creation for 
themselves. 

Even in her absence, Mrs. Van was 
very' much a part of the 1967 summer. 
Her example has left so many Nomin¬ 
ingue campers, past and present, with 
a far deeper awareness of all that good 
camping means. Those who are no 
longer active in camping still remem¬ 
ber what she gave them. Those who 
remain at Nominingue remember too, 
and are doing their best to pass on 
their knowledge and appreciation of 
Canada’s lakes and forests to newer 
generations. 

The Nature Cabin is not a passive 
memorial to Mrs. Van, but a living 
collection of mosquitoes, mice, rabbits, 
snakes, toads, tadpoles, flowers and bits 


20 


Canadian Camping 


from page IS 

of foliage; and. at any minute, another 
camper is bound to appear with some¬ 
thing else he has discovered on camp 
property or on a recent canoe trip. 

The most peaceful and meaningful 
moments of the 1967 season were spent 
in the camp’s simple outdoor chapel 
when, nestled among the birches and 
overlooking the lake, we sang the 
familiar words of Mary Edgar’s hymn 
that we so identify with Catherine Van 
Wagner and the unspoiled Canada that 
she taught us to love. 

God who touchest earth with beauty 

Make me lovely too, 

With thy spirit recreate me. 

Make my heart anew. 

Editor's Note: Each year, as Camping 
Conference season in Toronto or Mont¬ 
real drew near, “Mr. and Mrs. Van.” 
renewed very warm friendships with 
many of the delegates from across 
Canada. Through the years together 
they have strengthened and broadened 
the development of the Canadian 
Camping Association, devoting time, 
thought and energy to camping 
standards and health and safety as 
they emphasized the importance of 
good staff and their influence on 
campers of any age. Catherine was an 
eager supporter of Canadian Camping 
Magazine, and contributed articles of 
a lasting nature which can be found in 
issues of other years and used to 
advantage today. Until two years ago, 
she was Editorial Representative for 
the Quebec Camping Association, moti¬ 
vating and encouraging her camping 
associates to write for us for the benefit 
of our readers. Your Editorial Com¬ 
mittee will feel the loss of one of its 
most loyal members, and extends 
sympathy to “Mr. Van.” —• 


from page IS 

stafT. However, since the building of 
self-confidence is of greater importance 
than any other facet of camp life, it 
seems highly appropriate to subordinate 
all aspects of camp life to it. 


NEWS 

from iluvbvv 

Frances M. Kelly, Executive Secre¬ 
tary of the Quebec Camping Asso¬ 
ciation Inc. sends us this advance word 
of their Conference to be held March 
14, 15 and 16, 1968 at the Windsor 
Hotel in Montreal. It is to be held 
jointly by the English and French 
sections of the Association and will be 
bilingual with simultaneous translation 
throughout the entire programme. 

Mr. Robert Lazanik will be Chair- 
ban of the English Section and the 
Rev. Pere Lionel Perras, Chairman of 
the French Section. 

When we have further details, we’ll 
share them with you. 


FOR SALE 

CAMP ALLSAW. 135 acres on Soyer 
Lake, Haliburton. 1600 feet of main¬ 
land shoreline, plus a seven-acre island. 
Accommodation for 100 to 150 cam¬ 
pers. S. G. Hambly, 9 Calais Avenue, 
Downsview, Ontario. 

Telephone 416—249-4517 


JARVIS PRODUCTS & OSCAR 
PEARSON ENTERPRISES 

will now be known as 

POOL MAN Limited 

Water Fun & Safety Items 
Playground Equipment 
Transhailers 

Water Pumps and Softeners 
Write for Catalogue 

1 870 Dundas Hwy. E. - Cooksville 
279-9811 


Autumn, 1967 


21 






oust i n u: \ip s . . . 

Th p Adn>riisvrs 


Continental Casualty Co. Outside Back 

Federation of Catholic Charities . 17 

Gibbons Foods Limited . 2 

Hotel and Hospital Supply Ltd. 15 

K. and N. Travel Ltd. 22 

Lewiscraft . 18 

Lily Cups Ltd. 23 

Pool Man Limited . 21 

J. M. Schneider Limited . 10 

Starkman Chemists Ltd. 19 

Jack Watson Sporting Goods Limited .... 22 
Western Store Equipment Co. Ltd. 6 


1968 Camp Employment Wanted 
Husband and wife teachers. Husband 
age 32, eight years camping with 
YMCA, Boy Scouts, Salvation Army, 
desires position in agency or church 
camp as Business Manager and Water¬ 
front Director. Wife, age 27, Office 
Manager and Dining Room Super¬ 
visor. One child. Please reply to Cana¬ 
dian Camping (Box 7), 35 ThornclifTc 
Park Drive, Apt. 704, Toronto 17, 
Ontario. 


from page 13 
Active Members 

There is no reason why all of these 
camps and many others as yet un¬ 
developed should not become active 
members in the Canadian Camping 
Association and mutually be of benefit 
to each other so long as they offer 
each camper an opportunity to get 
back to nature and to learn to handle 
himself capably close to mother earth. 
He should have an opportunity to 
refresh his spirit and drink deep of the 
peace and silence in the woods. For 
this is camping. 

No matter how you slice it you can’t 
cut out the core of camping. Camping 
will always be living close to nature 
with a minimum of gear and a maxi¬ 
mum of spirit and know-how. 

As organized camping creeps closer 
and closer to the field of education the 
challenge will be to determine what we 
have tliat is so valuable to the growth 
and development of a child. 

Perhaps . . . who knows? . . . we may 
swing full cycle to the thinking of some 
of the original founders of camps. 
Fannie L. Case who started Camp 
Northway Lodge in 1906 wrote .... 

“Having taught teen age girls and 
boys a number of years and adored it, 
and being eager to try informal educa¬ 
tion without supervision from above 
and unhampered by tradition, we 
were ripe for a break in the usual 
physical circumstances also accom¬ 
panying education — close air, hard 
seats nailed down in rows, the clock 
ticking away our precious time and the 
bell cutting in just as an absorbed 
interest was reaching a climax. The 
thought of school in open spaces with 
which we had been toying since the 
advent of the Country Day School idea 
was easily changed to a trial of the 
summer camp plan.” 


We Hope 

You had a Good Season 

JACK WATSON 

SPORTING GOODS LIMITED 
30 Mobile Drive, Toronto 16 


K & N TRAVEL SERVICE 

AIRLINE, STEAMSHIP AND 
TRAIN TICKETS 
HOTEL RESERVATIONS 
BAGGAGE AND FLIGHT INSURANCE 

157 Bay St. 

Toronto 1, Ontario - Tel. 366-0728 
Also Offices in Montreal & Winnipeg 


I_ 

22 


Canadian Camping 


















Put 

Lily 
In Your 
Kitchen . 

(and extra profits in your pocket) 

You’ll reduce labour cost where you want it most . . . right in 
your kitchen with Lily Disposable Cups, Plates and Dishes. And 
you’ll get better, faster and easier mealtime service (sanitary too). 

Let us prove it. Just clip the coupon, mail it today and you will 
receive your special cost reduction kit. 


Yes, show me how I can reduce my food service costs. 

Name:._ 

Camp:_ 

Address:_ 


Mail To: Lily Cups Limited, 

P.O. Box 4020, Terminal "A”, §0 !| 

/i 

Toronto, Ontario. 









Since 1954 campers have been paid over one quarter 
of a million dollars from this plan. Benefits paid are 
increasing each year — proof of the need for your 
CAMP-GUARD plan. 

*A choice of plans for all organizational, church and private camps 
providing broad medical expense protection for each accident and each 
sickness at low cost group rates for both campers and staff members. 


Put camp-guard on your programme. 
Display this symbol and let parents know 
your camp is covered. This symbol of 
outstanding coverage assures them you 
take added interest in your camper’s wel¬ 
fare, by providing a camp-guard accident 
and sickness plan. 

Your local insurance agent will help you 
choose the right plan for your camp; or 
write our nearest office for full particulars. 



ACCIDIN? mm4 SICKNISl v 

INSURANCE 


display this symbol 

STICKERS AVAILABLE FOR YOUR STATIONERY 




CONTINENTAL CASUALTY COMPANY 


VANCOUVER 5, 160 Bloor St. East 5 Place Ville Marie 

Suite 410, 1281 West Georgia St. TORONTO MONTREAL 2, QUEBEC 

MUtual 4-6301 924-4692 Victor 9-5303 


Suite 660, 1 Thornton Court, EDMONTON. GA. 4-7322 

202-209 Notre Dame, WINNIPEG 2, WH. 3-8723 Suite 403, 600 6th Avenue S.W., CALGARY, AM. 3-1937 











