OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 


CANADIAN CAMPING 


•luitv 1961. TORONTO, CANADA 


















Manufacturers 

of 

the famous 

Quickset 

Quality 

Food Products 
for Camps 
anywhere 
in Canada 

Jelly Powders 
Pudding Powders 
Instant Puddings 
Creme Pie Fillings 
Cake Mixes 
Table Syrup 
Fruit Rickeys 
Hot Chocolate 
Flavorings 
Soup Bases 
Marmalades 
Jams 

Fruit Pie Fillings 
and 

our new addition 
Camp-Rites 


GIBBO 

49 ADVANCE ROAD 


6I880HS 

and only Gibbons make these food 
products exclusively for Camps 
and Institutions. 

Highly recommended and used by 
many Canadian Camps for 
many years. 

Of course it will be to your 
advantage to order now — for 
June delivery — prepaid — 
waiting for you on arrival. 

And don't forget Camp-Rites, 
those neat little prepared food 
packages for week ends or trips. 

Telephone — Write — No Obligation 

BE. 2-1421 

NS FOODS LIMITED 

TELEPHONE BE. 2-1421 

TORONTO 18, CANADA 






f 

1 v *4 




O^HEBLAMEjV 

sasf^fiEffirw ifo'.v 


CAMP 


CAMP 


S PCAMP^II 

HETACAMt 




ws«R 80 r 


EATONS 

with the 


right accessories 
for happy camping. 


Blue lake and rocky shore 
abound with songs, laughter, 
and campers garbed in outfits 
from EATON’S Camp Centres. 
You’ll find T-shirts and 
sweatshirts bearing camp 
crests; regulation outfits 
^ of at least 14 well-known 

IfEHACAMf , camps; crained SMir 

members to help supply 
your campers’ needs. 

For information, 
write, call in person, 
or phone UN. 1-5111. 


Boys’ Camp Centre 
Main Store—Second Floor 
Girls’ Camp Centre 
Main Store—Third Floor 


'J v- 

liiss^ 

EATON’S of CANADA 


f 


Toronto, Canada, Jane 1961 


143 















How COLORDUR Solved a Bunk-House Problem*^ 

WANTED: A coating for plywood roofs for bunk- 
houses in a Northern Ontario camp. Must be light 
in weight, to reduce transportation costs to camp¬ 
site, easily applied and repaired by unskilled appli¬ 
cators, have good adhesion to plywood, and be 
serviceable enough to withstand rigorous winters. 

SOLUTION: Borden’s Colordur * ’Do-It-Yourself * ’ 
Process Roofing was applied in 
June 1959, in accordance with 

i 

manufacturer’s directions, using 
standard paint rollers as the only 
equipment required. 

RESULTS: After many months of 
service roofing is performing ex¬ 
tremely well in all categories—with 
an unexpected dividend: snow 
which normally piled up on stand¬ 
ard roofs, slid off the Colordur coated roofs. 

RECOMMENDATION: Investigate Colordur for your 
roof coatings. You’ll discover incredible adaptability 
to any style, shape or design of roof. Colordur is easy 
to apply, withstands rugged wear and tear, doesn’t 
require gravel and will not soften or run in the hot 
sun. For complete details fill in the coupon below. 

^ ™ ■■■■ ™ ™ ™ ™ ■■■■■■■■■■*■■ «i ■■■■■■■■ * ■■ ■ 

Ihrden C/iemica / COMPANY (CANADA) LIMITED 
West Hill, Ontario 

I’d like to know more about Borden's Colordur “Do*it-Yourself" Process Roofing 
| Name_ 

| Address _ I 

■ City I 

I COLORDUR A PRODUCT OF BORDEN CHEMICAL COMPANY (CANADA) LIMITED I 



144 


Canadian Camping 











You’ll Find LILY 

There’s a complete range of Lily paper 
cups and plates to make your camp opera¬ 
tion easier. These light-weight, economical 
Lily products mean an end to tedious dish¬ 
washing . . . save valuable space, time and 
effort. The Lily range provides plastic coated, 


a good Camper! 

non-absorbent plates that can’t soak up 
gravies or moist foods. 

Ideal for Children’s summer camps, Lily 
cups and plates are a safeguard against 
cross-contamination . . . remove the danger 
of broken glass and china. Enjoy a carefree 
camping operation this summer! 


Write to LILY CUPS LIMITED, Dept. 
CC-6-61 for further information and 
samples. 


LILY CUPS 

300 DANFORTH RD. 


LIMITED |P| 

Toronto 13 «?T 


Toronto s Canada , June 1961 


145 





No matter whether your campers 
bicycle, canoe, hike or ride horseback, 
you must have the best in Camping 
Insurance. And there’s only one BEST 
— sold by the pioneers in this essential 
coverage. 


Our policies cover 



• Polio And Dread Diseases 

• Epidemic 

• Dismemberment 


• Medical Reimbursement 

• Accidental Death 

• Tuition Refund 


Best in Best in 

Coverage Service 

THE SIGN OF GOOD SERVICE 

i 

VERMONT ACCIDENT INSURANCE 

Rutland, Vermont, U.S.A. 

Member American Camping Association 


Extra QUALITY PAYS . . . 

and that is verified by the confidence of our customers, which continues 
year after year. 

Foodcraft specialized foods oiler many unique advantages and they sum 
up to what you want—distinctive quality meals at minimum cost. 

Personnel thoroughly experienced in camp procedure, is at your service 
day or night—just write, wire, or telephone collect. Immediate delivery. 

• Specialized Foods • Specialized Service 

FOODCRAFT LABORATORIES LIMITED 

58-60 Duchess Street, Toronto 2, Ontario 

Telephone: 368-8088 
DISTRIBUTION ACROSS CANADA 


146 


Canadian Camping 





Prevent Septic Tank Trouble 


Treat’ your Septic Tank System NOW and be sure of a 
clean, efficient, fully operating Septic Tank and drainfield 
when your units are in full use. 

“SEPTO-BAC” 

(POSITIVELY GUARANTEED) 

OVERCOME AND AVOID TROUBLE. You can be 
sure of an efficient, fully-operating septic system when 
you use new SEPTO-BAC. Cuts grease and soap 
curds, cleans drain tile, improves seepage. SEPTO- 
BAC IS NOT YEAST ... it is concentrated Protelytic 
Enzymes that give new life to sluggish or blocked 
septic systems and cesspools. The most efficient 
known septic re-viltalizer, yet costs far less than any 
substitute. Insist on SEPTO-BAC—It’s new. 

• Cleans • Cuts Grease and Soap Curds 

• Revitalizes • No Yeast 

SAFE • SIMPLE • SURE 


MADE BY THE ORIGINATORS OF THE FAMOUS MISTO-VAN 
FOR OUTSIDE TOILETS 

For further information write to 

TILLEY’S LIMITED - 430 College St., Toronto 

INDUSTRIAL SANITATION DIVISION 


Toronto, Canada, June 1961 


147 









G. H. WOOD & COMPANY, LIMITED 

TORONTO - MONTREAL - VANCOUVER 
Branches Across Canada 


OUR "VANGUARD' 1 STYLE 
With Draining and Stacking Features 


375 Danforth Road 
Toronto 13, Ont. 


4 ' 


GET YOUR ORDERS IN NOW 
FOR BETTER ASSORTMENT 

WILL HOLD FOR CAMP OPENING 
LIMITED SUPPLY 

Our Usual Pre-camptime 
Offer of Substandards 

AT OUR USUAL 

Generous 
Discounts 

ALL STYLES 


MAPLEXWARE 

STYLEWARE 

VANGUARD 

MODERNE 


• PAPER TOWELS • PAPER SERVIETTES 

• TOILET TISSUE • DISINFECTANTS 

• FIRE • CLEANING 

EXTINGUISHERS SOAPS 

• DEORORIZERS o WATER COOLERS 


• PAPER CUPS 

• TOILET SOAPS 

• WASTE 
RECEPTACLES 

• INSECTICIDES 


)oocl’A 


SANITATION 

FOR THE NATION 


148 


Canadian Camping 





BEFORE THE BUSY SUMMER SEASON 
...paint and protect your boats! 


RED HAND C 

1 MARINE PAINTS 

I “The Finest Afloat” 


including: 

Syndurac Enamels 

Attractive and fade resistant, in full and semi-gloss—for all 
topside uses, interior and exterior. 

Syndurac Epoxy Colors 

Proven in service as the ideal coating for polyester, metal 
and wood hulls. 


Polyester-Fiberglass Coating for Boats 


For extra years of boating pleasure, use roxaplast! Its 
durable coating gives lifetime protection to all boats, old 
and new .... and the smooth-as-glass surface improves the 
performance of any hull! Easy-to-apply roxaplast features 
a choice of high-hiding, non-sag colors and a premeasured 
hardener. 



For name of local dealer write to: 

ROXALIN OF CANADA LIMITED 

6102 New Toronto, Ontario 

Toronto, Canada, June 1961 149 






HOW TO KEEP YOUR CAMP CLEAN AND SANITARY 


he’ll suggest these 
proven products 


McKemco Special Laundry Compounds 
McKemco H.X.M. Cleaner 
Special Compound No. 15 
McKemco Laundry Soap Powder 
McKemco Wool Foam 
McKemco Paradichlorbcnzine Crystals 
for Mothproofing 

McKemco Machine Dish-washing 
Compounds 

McKemco Hand Dish-washing 
Compounds 

McKemco Glass Washing Compounds 
McKemco Sanitizing Agents 
McKemco Pots and Pans Cleaners 
McKemco Insecticides 
McKemco Washroom Supplies 
Whitato Anti-Oxidant to keep 
Peeled Potatoes White 
Bionetic-Septic Tank Activator 
& Grease Trap Cleaner 


Your McKemco man's complete line 
of washing and cleaning products 
will help you maintain maximum 
camp sanitation. Write for product 
literature. 


CHEMICAL COMPANY LIMITED 


1 9 Years of Service to Canadian Industry 

1 1 1 9A YONGE STREET, TORONTO 

and McKAGUE CHEMICALS (EASTERN) LTD. 
421 COURTEMANCHE AVENUE, MONTREAL EAST, QUEBEC 


150 


Canadian Camping 



CANADIAN CAMPING 


VoL 13 


JUNE, 1961 


No. 4 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


Putting Adventure Back Into Camping.C. R. Blackstock 

How We Run Our Tuck Shop.Barry Lowes 

How We Run Our Tuck Shop.Joyce Bertram 

The Happy Camper.Margaret Govan 

Counsellors’ Responsibilities for Health in Camp.Dr. Harry Ebbs 

No City Crafts For Me!.Eileen Gardiner 

Small Camp Programmes.Helen Stewart 

Beware (a report on insecticides). 

Report of CCA Annual Meeting—News of the Provinces. 

Greetings from the President.Ken Murray 

Sermons Under The Sun.Mary Purdy 

Programme Planning for the Day Camp.Judith Sule 

Feeding a Camp on a Limited Budget— 

J. G. Lang and Barbara Lang Ross 

Toward Better Practices and Higher Standards. 

A Day of Indian Games.Walter Mingie 


153 

155 

155 

156 

159 

160 
161 
162 
163 
166 
168 
169 

172 

180 

181 


Cover Cut—Camp Bonaventure—Winnipeg Y.W.C.A. Courtesy Winnipeg Tribune 
Other Cuts courtesy Ont. Dept . of Lands and Forests 


CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

2233 Bclgrave Avenue, Montreal 28, Quebec 


HU. 9-1541 


Honorary President- 

Past Presidents 

Taylor Statten, Toronto 
Dais L. Gass, Montreal 
Anne I. Vail, Montreal 
W. E. (Ted) Yard, Toronto 
Irwin Haladner, Toronto 
F. M. Van Wagner, Montreal 

President 

Kenneth H. Murray 
Vice-Presidents 

Mrs. Pat Broome, Vancouver 
Rev. R. S. Harper, Winnipeg 
Mrs. Alta R. Kahn, Montreal 
Miss Margaret Govan, Toronto 
Grant McKeen, Edmonton 
Abol Zisi, Halifax 


•Miss Mary Edgar 

Executive Secretary 

Miss Franaces M. Kelly 
2233 Bclgrave Ave., Montreal 

Corresponding Secretary 
Mrs. Agnes Mutchlcr 
2070 Lincoln, Apt. 7, Montreal 

Treasurer 

W. J. C. Hewetson, Montreal 

Publisher, Canadian Camping 
Fred Haiblen 

170 Bloor Street West, Toronto 
924-7117 

Editor 

Miss Joyce Bertram 
238 St. Clements Ave., 

Toronto 12, Ont. 


Editorial Committee — 

Barry Lowes, Margaret Govan, Katherine Anson, Kirk Wipper, W. E. Yard, Reg 
Blackstock, Eanswythe Flynn, John Gates. 


“CANADIAN CAMPING* 4 IS PUBLISHED FOUR TIMES A YEAR BY THE CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
CO. FOR THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION AT 170 BLOOR ST. WEST. TORONTO. ONTARIO. SUB¬ 
SCRIPTION PRICES: MEMBERSHIP IN THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION INCLUDES CANADIAN 

CAMPING: TO NON-MEMBERS, 73 CENTS PER COPY, 52.73 PER YEAR, 58.00 FOR THREE YEARS. 

AUTHORIZED AS SECOND CLASS MAIL, POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT. OTTAWA. ONT. 


Toronto, Canada, June 1961 


151 



















FOR CAMPS ONLY... 


THIS COUPON 
IS WORTH ONE DOLLAR 




ONE DOLLAR OFF 

This coupon — when presented to your wholesaler — 
will give you $1.00 off the regular price of a case of 
INSTANT MIL-KO (six — 6 lb. cartons). 

TO THE WHOLESALER: Please give Camp Buyers 
$1.00 off a case of INSTANT MIL-KO (six — 6 lb. 
cartons) and redeem this coupon from Mil-Ko Products 
Limited for $1.00 plus 10£ handling charge. 






GREAT MILK NEWS: 

New Zest in flavor of INSTANT MU-NO 



Mil-ko—100% Owned and 

Operated by Canadians 

Keep Canadians Woiking -- 

Buy Canadian 


There's a great new 'zest' in the flavor of 
INSTANT MIL-KO. Kids smack their lips over 
it and ask for more. 

Tastes best when you serve it ice-cold. 
Delicious! 

And the new INSTANT MIL-KO skim milk 
powder is easy to mix. It's 'crystallized' to 
dissolve instantly. 

High in nutrition too. Only the fat has been 
removed. An excellent dietary source of 
riboflavin, protein and calcium. A good dietary 
source of thiamin and Vitamin C. Also, it is 
Vitamin D increased. 

All this for less than 7# a quart! 

Write for institutional recipes: 

Canadian Camping Offer, 

Box 695, Hamilton, Ontario. 

CANADIAN HOUSEWIVES HAVE BOUGHT 
MORE MIL-KO THAN ANY OTHER BRAND 


152 


Canadian Camping 








EDITORIAL 


Putting 
The Adventure 
Buck 

C. R . Blackstock 

Into Tumping Camp Maiinaw 


Adventure for anyone is a stimulant. 
It is a stimulant because there are some 
or all of the following aspects to the 
event or experience: danger, risk, the 
unknown, the untried, possible failure, 
and sometimes healthy fear which in¬ 
duces appropriate caution. 

Adventure is an instrument of the 
educator. Adventure makes the learn¬ 
ing memorable because it is tinged with 
colour and risk and challenge. It can 
bring into sharp relief the basic knowl¬ 
edge and skills learned and drilled in 
the “class” situations. Through adven¬ 
ture the untested skills can be proved 
against the measured or calculated risk 
provided by the terrain, climate and 
circumstance. 

Knowledge and skills free the indi¬ 
vidual to act. We recognize ignorance 
as a binding, limited factor which hems 
in the very spirit, shrinks it and over a 
long period deadens it. By adding the 
element of adventure to educating ex¬ 
periences we give reason for acquiring 
more knowledge and a wider and more 
thoroughly developed range of skills. 

Someone is sure to raise the question 
of safety at this point. But what is edu¬ 
cation, all education, if it isn’t safety 
education. Knowledge increases the 
chance of survival. Skills learned and 


developed reduce the risks associated 
with action. There is a normal risk in 
any situation. This risk is increased 
when ignorance is associted with the 
situation. Lack of appropriate skills 
mean awkwardness, a heightening of 
the related hazards. 

In camping we can make full use of 
adventure in the experiences and in 
many of the activities that make up its 
days and nights. ‘Let’s do this. Good 
directors have always done it’. Let us 
all be conscious of this great aid to out¬ 
door education, our specialty. 

If the adventures are planned, an¬ 
nounced and built up beforehand, there 
will be a dividend of anticipation. We 
add purpose to the acquisition of 
knowledge and skill necessary for the 
adventure. Campers will strive the 
harder when they know there is new 
adventure coming, new experience to 
be had. 

As directors, we have to be prepared 
for failure which means that the camp¬ 
ers have to be prepared for it too. They 
may come back to camp scraped, weary, 
wet, bedraggled. They may have 
lacked the strength, the fortitude and 


Toronto , Canada, June 1961 


153 




the knowledge to reach the goal. They 
may have lost or damaged equipmnet 
and gear. Even so, if we as directors 
and staff, have done our job of getting 
to know each camper of the group and 
have gauged the adventure to nearly 
suit the group, the campers will return 
only to renew their assault. 

On the other hand, if they come 
back having reached the goal even 
under trying conditions, then, how rich 
is the experience in retrospect! And 
what can add more effectively to the 
self-reliance, the composure and the 
all-round education of the camper than 
the experience of scaling the difficult 
face of the mountain, finding the lost 
lake, sailing the intricate passages, or 
more than matching the opponents in 
the contest. What a pyramid of learn¬ 


ing is contained in these words “I didn’t 
know I could do it! 

Make in-camp activities add to the 
campers’ knowledge of the out-of-doors. 
Provide the time, instruction and prac¬ 
tice so that the campers “habituate” 
the basic skills. And then, having un¬ 
bound them, put their feet upon the 
trails they have not travelled, point 
their canoes and horses towards the 
secret places of the wilderness, and their 
spirits upward to the high places. Ad¬ 
venture will be their constant com¬ 
panion, whetting the appetite for more 
exploration and discovery. 

How else than through adventures 
can the wonder and the beauty of the 
creation of the Great Spirit be known! 

—• 


SENSE OF VALUES 


What are you doing at camp to develop 
a fine sense of values for your campers. 


Thank heavens for Miss Sophie Jaffe, a public school teacher from New 
Britain. She got up before the annual convention of the American Federation 
of Teachers in Dayton, Ohio, the other day and spoke her mind on a subject 
which might well be closer to the hearts of U.S. parents. 

Said Miss Jaffe: Unless American children learn a littel about doing without 
material things; unless their parents teach them that they cannot have everything 
they want merely by asking for it, the nation will have produced a generation 
unable to make the sacrifices necessary to preserve democracy. 

“We have gone overboard on the idea that, by giving our children the best 
and the most, we are making them happy, well-rounded individuals who will 
grow up to be good, adaptable citizens,” she said. “Children must learn as 
children that money and material abundance are not the acme of American 
democracy.” 

It isn’t at all unusual, she pointed out, for some families to provide television 
sets for the children’s bedrooms, for youngsters to carry portable radios to school. 

It’s up to teachers, parents and other adults to shift the emphasis back to 
“what’s right and what’s wrong” and away from materialistic concepts, Miss 
Jaffe said. Her remarks need no embellishment here. 

Great debates rage about national defense. Yet, nothing can be more 
pertinent to national—and personal—defense than a true sense of values, not 
only in the rising generation but in its elders, as well. 

—From the New London, Conn., “Day” 

— # 


154 


Canadian Camping 


How We Stun Our Tueh Shop 

B. G . Lowes Timberlane 

At our camp we have tuck four times a week. A camper is allowed to 
purchase only one edible item plus any other toilet articles, etc., that he needs. We 
do not sell T-shirts, Sweat shirts, etc. These are handled by Eatons. Our aim 
is to keep tuck accounts as low as possible. We do not see our tuck shop as a big 
source of revenue. On the contrary, the adverse public relations that can result 
from a high tuck bill can be out of all proportion. 

On tuck days an order sheet is placed on each table at breakfast. The coun¬ 
sellor writes down the camper’s name and his order. The sheets are collected by 
our office girl who fills the orders during the morning. The large paper bag for 
each cabin is picked up by the counsellor after lunch. 

Campers write their names on the back of their out-going mail, stamps are 
affixed in the office and charged to their account. 

No line ups, no tickets, no cash, everything is charged. The office girl records 
purchases on a 3 x 5 tuck card. A deposit of $10 is put into tuck and the balance 
is refunded by cheque at the end of the season. 

On out-trips, the counsellor draws 25c for each camper to spend, 50c on 
longer trips. Children who bring cash to camp in spite of our request are asked to 
put it in the camp bank. Even if someone chooses to keep their cash, they may 
not spend it in camp and may only spend the same amount as other children on 
out-trips. 


Slow We Hun Our Tueh Shop 

Joyce Bertram, Camp Ouareau 

Our Trading Post is open for the campers every day from 5:00 to 5:30 p.m. 
At this time they may buy stamps, films, toothpaste, notepaper etc. We do not 
sell sweatshirts, pennants, crests or whatever. 

Trading Post is open for the purchase of “tuck” three days a week for 
Intermediate and Senior sections of camp. Juniors have cabin delivery just 
before rest hour each day. Campers may buy 7c worth of candy or fruit three 
times a week. We do not sell gum or soft drinks. 

There is a large window outside the Trading Post and a counter set up 
inside for display of these goodies. Campers take what they want as they pass 
by and give their name to the person in charge. Their purchases are recorded 
on a large poster which has been ruled off so that there is room for eight or 
ten columns after each name—stationery, films, tuck, laundry, church collection 
etc. This is totalled near the end of camp and entered on camper’s ledger 
sheet and bill. Campers do not need money for any purpose whatever. 
The counsellor in charge of canoe trip takes tuck for everyone. 

Counsellor's tuck is sold after the campers, six days a week. Accounts 
are kept in the same way. The only concession to counsellors is the addition of 
cigarettes. The entire performance lasts no more than half an hour. No 
accounts are done until the end of the month. 


Toronto, Canada, June 1961 


155 



Programme - Personnel - Planning 

They all add up to — 

THE HAPPY CAMPER 


by Margaret Govan 
Camp Onawaw 


Of course we all want happy 
campers; we take it for granted; in fact 
I am afraid that we take it for granted 
that our campers are happy—except 
for those that make us well aware that 
they are not. But I am certain that 
we have a great many campers, you 
and I, that we shouldn’t classify as 
unhappy; but neither should we classify 
them as happy. Interested, yes; co¬ 
operative yes, but not bubbling over 
with happiness. 

The camper who is a happy child by 
nature, will be happy as a king in most 
of our camps. The trouble is that 
many of our children are not naturally 
happy. How could they be? They 
have a strange nursery ... a world 
of tension, fear, trouble and struggle; 
a man-made, materialistic world where 
even the child consumer is being bat¬ 
tered on every side, to consume more, 
and so become less self-sufficient and 
self-reliant all the time; a world of 
values which cut across other values; 
a world of change and upset, quite 
unpredictable from day to day; a world 
without roots! And our children reflect 
the world. So children bring to camp 
what Fritz RedI called ‘shadows from 
home’—worries, tensions, fears, aggress¬ 
iveness, hostility, prejudice, and values 
which are anti-social, unethical, even 
immoral. 

However, most children are flexible 
enough to react very quickly to an 


atmosphere, and if the shadows are not 
too black, there is a great deal that 
we can do to produce a sheltered 
interlude, a programme full of interest 
and fun, and hannonious human re¬ 
lationships, in other words a climate 
where the normal, every-day youngster 
has a good chance for happiness. Not 
that we can make a recipe; happiness 
is a by-product of deep seated content¬ 
ment and a feeling of well-being. 
These, in their turn, are the results 
of the meeting of needs, both sub¬ 
conscious and conscious. Some of those 
conscious needs must be changed . . . 
they are also shadows from home ... by 
substitution and changed attitudes 
brought about by good leadership. If 
wc can concentrate on these needs, we 
are far more likely to have a larger 
crop of happy children. 

There are various areas of need. The 
first is for health and safety. The 
standards committee in our province is 
dealing with that; any camp director 
who takes a chance in this area, can¬ 
not be truly concerned about the wel¬ 
fare of his campers. 

A camper requires good, nourishing 
food in large quantities. Food is the 
foundation stone of good public re¬ 
lations. Enough said. 


156 


Canadian Camping 



A camper needs sufficient equipment 
in good working order, to carry out the 
programme. Equipment is a tool, not 
to be confused with leadership, but 
necessary to the leaderhip. 

The arrangement of the cabin group 
is very important. To quote Fritz Redl 
again: there should be enough differ¬ 
ences to make life interesting; enough 
similarities to make a working group. 
And what is enough? So much, said 
Professor Redl, and I am still trying 
to find the answer! You can only do 
your best. 

The two remaining areas are Pro¬ 
gramme and personal relationships. 
Since programme is the easier, let’s 
attack it first. 

A camper must achieve, he must 
know he is making progress; and how 
he loves other people to know it too! 
So we must teach skills suitable to the 
age and ability; we must teach those 
skills well; we must allow sufficient 
time for teaching periods, and we must 
encourage regular attendance. We 
must acknowledge progress through 
praise, or through the passing of a 
test, or through a legitimate oppor¬ 
tunity to show off ... a water regatta, 
building a fire for the campfire, helping 
to prepare a meal, the opportunity to 
get out into a canoe as soon as the 
requirements have been learned, skip¬ 
ping a sail boat, steming on a trip, 
exhibiting a piece of craftsmanship. 

Cooperative achievement too has its 
place ... in a skit, in a water pageant, 
in the choir, in the preparation of a 
meal, being a member of a trip. 

A camper must have adventure . . . 
something that is new and different, 
something to write home about, some¬ 
thing which will become a satisfying 
memory. Again adventures vary with 
age, experience and interest. We are 


lucky for all of camp is adventurous 
and nature is continually on our side. 
There is the great variety provided by 
trips of all kinds with goals varying 
from a heronry to a deserted mine. 
There are discoveries and new ex¬ 
periences: seeing a snake shed his skin, 
catching a fish, picking berries and 
making jam. There are surprises like 
treats or interesting visitors; you can 
go on forever. 

A camper must belong. His own bed, 
his own chair in the dining room are 

He needs food for thought and spirit, 
for a boy cannot live by bread and 
exercise alone. Much of this food will 
be provided as associate learnings; some 
things must be offered with great and 
painstaking effort on some one’s part. 
Never, never underestimate the power 
of a play, a story, a talk or a sermon. 

To turn to the last area, and the 
most difficult: human relationships. A 
just beginnings. He needs to know 
something about his immediate en¬ 
vironment, so different from his city 
home. A counsellor must provide 
physical security by his actual presence, 
must interpret and act as guide. As a 
camper learns the names of his neigh¬ 
bours, trees, and birds and beasts, they 
no longer have power over him. 
Magic? Yes, but white magic. 

Sufficient routine, explanations of 
rules and limits, also help him to 
adjust. 

The camper needs to work for the 
good of the group and of camp. He 
must do his share of cleanup; he must 
take his part in worth-while work 
projects (he must accept them as 
worth-while) and they must be within 
the compass of his ability, though not 
too easy. 

He must have opportunities to par¬ 
ticipate in the life of the small group 


Toronto, Canada , June 1961 


157 



. . . paddling his weight both symbol- 
lically and literally. He must be part 
of whatever projects the group carries 
out. If he has no dramatic ability and 
the group are putting on a skit, he can 
announce or be property man, but he 
must not be left out. Sometimes he 
must be the leader of the small group, 
if only for a minute or so; sometimes 
the follower. And how hard it is to 
help the blushing violet accept leader¬ 
ship, or the born leader to relinquish it! 

Curiously enough, especially in the 
teens, he must also experience the 
sense of being lost within the com¬ 
munity. This can happen in a sing¬ 
song, at chapel, in the dining-room, 
through large competitve games when 
all camp is involved. Thus he has 
little responsibility but is united with 
all the others. 

He needs friends. He may need help 
in learning the skills of making friends. 
He will need time to talk, opportunity 
to do things in pairs and threesomes. 
He needs, too, to make friends with 
interesting adults who have varied 
hobbies, skills, ideas and experiences, 
so that his horizons can grow, 
camper should never be exposed to a 
wrangling staff, or to bad temper, 
jealousy, tensions between adults, and 
all the other upsetting relationships 
that we are so prone to fall into. For 
the interlude of camp he should see 
adults behaving in a mature, con¬ 
siderate way, to each other, and to 
the campers. 

Every last camper requires concern 
and respect from every member of the 
camp staff, and his own counsellor in 
particular. It begins with respect for 
personality, with the differences in 
appearance, experiences, aptitudes, atti¬ 
tudes, and all that makes John or Jane 
Camper different from George and 
Jean. 

Interests will vary. There will be the 
ordinary, every-day camper who wants 


to go along with the gang, to learn to 
swim, to camp out, to play baseball; 
there will be the camper whose hobby 
is his very life’s blood, and the young¬ 
ster who has no interests at all. And 
all the in-betweens. If a certain amount 
of programming is done from the level 
of the cabin group, all can be taken 
care of, providing the counsellor is 
aware of these variations. 

There must be respect for the 
camper’s accomplishments no matter 
how old a story they are to the coun¬ 
sellor. And there is an equally im¬ 
portant aspect of this: the counsellor 
must know of John’s potentialities and 
deficiences. There are fast learners and 
slow learners, and this varies in physi¬ 
cal and mental skills. There are people 
who will be able to do things exceed¬ 
ingly well, and those who can never 
make the grade. The counsellor must 
urge each camper to do his best, and 
never to be satisfied with less. The 
counsellor must accept that best even 
if it be very poor. We can make a 
camper wretched in either direction. 

And a counsellor must be made to 
realize that able people may have 
blind spots. Anybody who has had 
trouble with mathematics will under¬ 
stand this but it is so difficult to make 
a well-coordinated swimming teacher 
understand that no matter how hard 
Bobbie tries, he will never achieve a 
rhythmic crawl. If some of this enters 
the counsellor’s head and he acts 
upon it, Tom will never complain of 
‘being pushed ’round’. 

A camper’s privacy must be re¬ 
spected, his day dreams, his reticences, 
his modesty . . . even if it be a false 
one (or does this apply only to girls?) 
Jean may object to undressing “in 
public”. The counsellor may say: So 
what! But this has meaning for Jean, 

turn to page 182 


158 


Canadian Camping 



COUNSELLORS' RESPONSIBILITIES 


Few will disagree with the statement 
that parents send their children to 
camp to have a good time in a healthy 
and safe environment. Thus health is 
one of camping’s main objectives. If 
good health is not improved or at least 
maintained^ then the camp experience 
has, in most instances, been a failure. 

The trend in medical practice among 
children is towards a preventive out¬ 
look. This trend is becoming more 
widespread in the medical arrangement 
of organized camps everywhere, and 
is in contrast with the old idea of 
treating things after they have oc¬ 
curred. 

The responsibility for putting the 
health of the camp on a preventive 
basis rests with two divisions of the 
camp personnel: (a) the Medical Staff 
—Doctor and Nurse; (b) the Camp 
Staff—Director and Counsellors. 

RESPONSIBILITY OF THE 
MEDICAL STAFF 

.(1) A report of a medical examina¬ 
tion by the camper’s own physician, 
together with all the facts which might 
be important in the event of any con¬ 
dition arising while the child is at 
camp, should be sent to the camp phy¬ 
sician just before the opening date. 
An examination and report more than 
a week before camp opens, loses a great 
deal of is preventive value. A physi¬ 
cian who has been supervising the 
health of the child previously, can give 
valuable advice regarding special and 


FOR 

HEALTH 
IN CAMP 

/. H. Ebbs , M.D., M.R.CJP. (Lond.), 
F.R.C.P.( C), 

Medical Director, Taylor Statten Camps 


important points for insuring optimum 
health lor the individual camper. 

(2) A superficial medical examina¬ 
tion can usually be made by the camp 
physician at the point of embarkation 
for camp, on the train to camp, or at 
the point where campers meet to enroll 
in the camp. If this is done before 
campers have mixed and come in too 
close contact with each other, it has a 
preventive value in eliminating early 
cases of infectious conditions. For 
example — an examination of the 
mouth, throat, tongue, inside of the 
cheeks and the skin of the neck and 
arms, will take only a few moments 
to carry out, but it will serve to detect 
infectious conditions which could be 
spread during the close contact neces¬ 
sary in travel and at the opening of 
camp. 

(3) A regular complete physical 
examination of each camper by the 
doctor should be carried out during the 
first day. 

turn to page 170 


Toronto, Canada, June 1961 


159 


If you have tried in vain for a “Campy** 
Craft Programme-here are some more ideas 


No City Crafts for Me! 

by Eileen Barfoot Gardiner, 

Instructor in Crafts for Camp. 


The teaching of crafts in camp need 
not be on a lofty and elaborate scale. 
Particularly is this true if the camp 
happens to be a small one, or a church 
or organizational camp where funds 
are not available for large expendi¬ 
tures, and ingenuity must compensate. 

The purpose of the programme is 
to teach by feel, association and 
achievement, to bring together the 
campers in co-ordinated groups, and 
to give them a memento to take home. 
Side effects are many: a keen interest 
in a new hobby; a new awareness of 
natural materials which can be used in 
crafts projects; and a realization of that 
individual talent and power our 
Creator has given us with which to 
bend these things to our needs. 

A crafts project might be carried on 
in two periods each day, one for 
research and instruction, the other for 
achievement. The first period can be 
used for demonstration. At this time 
I go over each individual project with 
the group, and find that they listen 
and observe to their advantage, as 
well as comment and suggest. Then, in 
the second period they work by them¬ 
selves as much as possible, so that a 
sense of personal achievement and 
independence can be developed in 
them. I let them make mistakes, but 
keep criticism on a very constructive 
scale (and always with a smile). I 
make a few mistakes of my own too, 
so that the group will accept the mis¬ 


takes of everyone as a natural pro¬ 
cedure. The more the teacher can 
relax and be natural, the more fun the 
programme can be, and the more 
smoothly the work will continue. 

I have found that the children are 
much more ingenious than adults, simply 
because they have not yet learned that 
some things can’t be done. They find 
a way around a difficulty much more 
readily than we, in our set ways, will 
allow ourselves. They, literally, seem 
to overcome the impossible and invent 
ways and means of overcoming ob¬ 
stacles. Once raise their enthusiasm 
and they are on the way to success, 
working together and sometimes teach¬ 
ing each other, especially when it 
comes to murals and other joint 
projects. 

To most children up to eleven years 
of age, perfection means little or 
nothing. A reasonable facsimile of a 
model or craft fills their need at the 
time. Once they approach the Teens, 
they want to master techniques and 
finish their projects properly. At this 
stage, a teacher should not finish things 
for them; rather, show them how, and 
let them proceed by their own method, 
at their own speed. They will try 
again if they fail, or attempt something 
else they can master. 

turn to page 176 


160 


Canadian Camping 





SMALL 

CAMP 

PROGRAMMES 


by Helen E . Stewart, 
Director, Camp Wahcahmie 


One of the joys and advantages of 
the small camp is to be found in 
programmes and projects in which the 
entire camp is involved. Two such 
events are anticipated and welcomed 
during the camping year at Wahcah- 
mie, and serve to unite the entire camp 
group as one happy family early in the 
camp period. 

Since our camp family is small, many 
ideas can be suggested and carried out 
en masse, and one of our most successful 
offerings came from the night we all 
slept out under the stars, at the site 
not too far removed from our main 
lodge and cabins, and previously chosen 
by the whole camp. 

It all began with an afternoon swim 
in the sun followed by a campfire meal 
cooked by the campers. General clean¬ 
up and preparation for sleeping fol¬ 
lowed, and then came the big campfire 
completely circled with its ring of 
happy faces, its camp songs, its camp¬ 
fire circle games. The entire group 
was introduced to the adventures of 
Tadger; and everyone became so in¬ 
trigued by his antics that an annual 
Tadger Night was instituted then and 
there . . . proposed, voted and carried 
unanimously. 

We found that for many 
campers this was an ideal initiation 
into the thrill of sleeping in the open 
air, and of providing an orientation for 
the new campers, so that on the return 
to camp, a feeling of belonging un¬ 
doubtedly prevailed ... a tangible 
feeling, the importance of which should 
never be minimized. 

One of the highlights of our camping 
period each year is our Water Carnival 
and Campsite Supper for parents and 
visitors. We originated the day for 

turn to page 184 



Toronto , Canada, June 1961 


161 



BEWARE!! 


Many devices and techniques have been proposed for comfort in camping. 
One of these is the ever increasing use of insecticides available in a number of 
plans. On the surface it would appear that this is a logical, desirable method for 
reducing the living things in our camp environment which we classify as pests. 
We are assured that it does relatively little harm and an enormous amount of 
good. But is this really true? Have the vendors of insecticides truly explored 
the consequences of its use? Has time been taken to analyze the immediate and 
long range implications of insecticides in our camp environment. One author 
promoting insecticides recently made this comment: “Modern insecticides are so 
numerous and effective against so many pests it is often difficult to decide 
which to buy”. Does this sound as though careful guidance and reasonable 
management has been offered? 

Apparently there has emerged from qualified wildlife scientists a number 
of warnings about the consequences of some insecticides and some techniques 
of applying them. Considerable immediate damage has been inflicted upon the 
associated living things — for example, birds, small animals, amphibious 
reptiles and even fish. The natural world is interdependent — no group 
of living things such as insects can really be isolated from all other living things. 
What affects one, must in the long run affect others too! Furthermore, results 
may be much more serious than the immediate damage problem. It has been 
suggested that infertility is one of the long range problems positively linked 
with insecticides. Little imagination is required to recognize the complications 
of this discovery! 

Surely people dedicated to the values of camping and the environment 
where camping must take place, can see the need for careful management of 
our natural surroundings. With exploding world populations and acute food 
shortages, we are obligated to practice and teach the principle of protection 
and care for our wilderness resources in an attempt to prepare our children for 
what lies ahead. 

Let us beware of possible threats to our natural environment, including 
the careless and unqualified use of insecticides. Let us not be victims of what 
the Author of “Stupidity Street” so vividly portrays: 

I saw with open eyes I saw in vision 

Singing birds sweet The worm in the wheat, 

Sold in the shops And in the shops nothing 

For the People to eat, For people to eat; 

Sold in the shops of Nothing for sale in 

Stupidity Street. Stupidity Street. 

—Ralph Hodgson 

—• 

(In the Fall and Winter issues we hope to run an article or series of 
articles on “Why Do I Direct a Camp?” If you would like to con¬ 
tribute your two cents worth, drop a line to the Editor at the Ontario 
Camping Office.) 


162 


Canadian Camping 



Report of The C.C.A. Annual Meeting 

Held at the King Edward Hotel, Toronto, March 23, 1961. 


The President, Mr. VanWagner, extended a welcome to all present and 
noted with great pleasure the fact that for the first time there were representatives 
from every provincial association. They were: 


Mrs. Pat Broome—British Columbia 

Mr. Grant McKeen—Alberta 

Mrs. Lois Pinfold—Manitoba 

Miss Margaret Govan—Ontario 

Mrs. Charlotte Birchard—Eastern Ontario 

Mrs. Alta Kahn—Quebec 

Mr. J. D. Mackie—Nova Scotia 


In addition, the following delegates from 
present: 

Catherine VanWagner—Montreal 
Mary Hackett—Ottawa 
Anne Vail—Montreal 
John Dolton—Montreal 


beyond the Toronto area were 

Agnes Mutchler—Montreal 
Ron Johnstone—London 
Don Groff—Kitchener 
Lou Handler—Detroit 


Each delegate gave a brief report of the affairs and progress of her provincial 
association during the past year. Excertps from the reports follow: 


British Columbia: 

Mrs. Broome reported that there are now 97 resident camps in British 
Columbia. The executive see their greatest task to be finding some way to unite 
these camps into a vital force to raise the level of camping standards in B.C. 

A Conference was held in April, 1960 at University of British Columbia 
in cooperation with the University Camping Committee. There were 120 
registered delegates. 

A similar Conference will be held in April 1962 at a Camp site. The theme 
will be “Improved Camping Through Improved Camping Skills”. 

Alberta 

Mr. Grant McKeen reported that the Alberta Association had divided into 
a northern and southern section due to the long distances involved. As it is, 
there are still members who travel hundreds of miles to attend meetings. 

The Alberta government has been helpful financially by underwriting the 
cost of the bi-annual Confernce. 

Mr. McKeen feels so confident about the strength and growth rate of his 
association that he has invited the Canadian Camping Association to hold its 
annual meeting in Alberta in 1963. 

Family camping is burgeoning in Alberta and the Alberta Association 
offers a camp site information service to the public through its office. They 
believe that their greatest growth potential lies in the area of family camping. 


Toronto, Canada, June 1961 


163 



Manitoba 

Mrs. Pinfold reported that membership was growing steadily and that 
monthly meetings were being well attended. 

For the past two years a committee has been working on standards, based 
on the Ontario Standards, and are now ready to begin a programme of camp 
visitations this summer. Many camps have requested visits and would.like to 
have some “Seal of Accreditation”. 

They have 15-20 camps not affiliated with M.G.A. but every effort is 
being made to draw them into the association. 

On March 18th a clinic was held for 77 committee and board members 
at the University of Manitoba. The theme was recruiting and training staff. 
Rev. Wilbur Howard was the key speaker. In May a conference for 
counsellors will be held in Brandon. 

Ontario 

Miss Govan reported that membership in the Ontario Camping Association 
was now 372 with 166 of these being camp members. 

The work of the association is divided into 12 active committees: Conference, 
Conservation, Public Relations, Publications, Counsellor Placement, Membership 
and Directory, Constitution, Legislation, Finance, Standards, Open Meeting 
and Canoeing Awards. 

At this years Conference there were 770 registered delegates. 

The Standard Program was moving ahead steadily with 102 camps 
visited to date. A general accord has now been reached on the purposes and 
direction of the standards program, clearing the path for a strong and concerted 
effort towards raising camping standards in Ontario. 

Quebec 

Mrs. Kahn reported that the regular committees have been functioning 
efficiently as attested to by the Placement Bureau which has doubled its number 
of registrants. 

The editorial committee has been forwarding articles to the National 
Editorial Committee for the magazine. 

The Quebec Associataion has two major goals for 1961: 

1. To secure a government charter incorporating the French and English 
sections into one Association, each retaining its autonomy, operating separately 
in some areas because of language difficulties, but jointly on the Provincial level. 
The Charter was granted in March. 

2. To visit and appraise all camps in 1961. The Standards Committee drew 
up a Manual of Desirable Practices which has been used by visitors for two years. 
A committee has been working on a marking process that will ensure 
confidentiality. 

Mrs. Kahn extended a warm invitation to all members of C.C.A. to 
attend the 1962 Conference in Montreal. 

Nova Scotia 

Mr. Mackie reported that his association concentrates its efforts in two areas: 
1. Annual Conference: with excellent resource people from Service Clubs, 
Govenrment departments and national organizations. In 1960 the same was 
“Health and Safety”. In 1961 the programme will include participation sessions in 
Waterfront and camping skills. 


164 


Canadian Camping 


2. The Quarterly Newsletter which reaches all members plus allied groups. 

The association is experimenting with non-voting memberships offered to 
Junior Leaders, that is counsellors, C.I.T.’s etc. These members are permitted to 
join the association and enjoy the opportuniies of training under experienced 
leaders. If sufficient interest is shown, special sessions will be held for them at the 
conference. 

CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE REPORT 

Mr. Barry Lowes reported that the four issues of the Canadian Camping 
Magazine are the real reports. 

This past year, Mrs. Flynn gave up the editorship of the magazine due to 
her own heavy personal work but has agreed to remain on the committee. 

Miss Joyce Bertram stepped into the gap and is doing the paste-up of 
the “dummy” that goes to the printers. It is a big task and she is doing a 
splendid job of it. The proof reading is done by Miss Wilda Watson, which is 
a great deal of painstaking work for which we are indebted to her. 

The problems of the magazine are three-fold: 

1. Getting people to work on the committee. 

2. Keeping the hungry dragon fed. 

3. The lack of country-wide material. 

Quebec and, in particular, Mrs. VanWagner has been most helpful with 
contributions to the magazine this year, for which the committee is most 
grateful and hopes that the flow will continue unabated. 

One or two articles have been submitted from the west but contributions 
are needed from all provinces if the magazine is going to be worthy of the 
name, Canadian Camping Magazine. Each province is urged to make a point 
of sending articles to the editorial committee. 

Since “letters to the editors” are not received, the committee is never 
sure of how the magazine is being received by the readers. They would welcome 
any criticisms and helpful suggestions as to how the magazine can serve the 
members more effectively. 

President’s Report 

Mr. VanWagner thanked those who had given such an interesting picture 
of the work of the provincial associations to the meeting. Signs of growth 
are apparent in the concerns expressed in raising camping standards and 
improving the financial position of the association. 

A recent questionaire sent to the provincial associations showed that there 
are between twelve and fourteen hundred camps in Canada serving over two 
hundred thousand boys and girls. 

The President thanked the membership for its support and cooperation 
during his term of office. He paid particular tribute to Miss Frances Kelly, 
the Executive Secretary of C.C.A., whose interest, skill and knowledge of 
camping affairs made it possible to keep the lines of communication open to 
all the provinces. 

Mr. B. Lowes moved a vote of thanks to the President for his indefatigable 
service to the association, not only during his terms in office but also throughout 
the years as a member of the C.C.A. executive. The sustained applause evidenced 
the feelings of all those present. r v 


165 


Toronto, Canada/June 1961 



Report of the Nominating Committee 

The slate of officers for 1961 was read by the acting secretary. 

In the absence of the newly elected President, Mr. Ken Murray, Mr. 
Van Wagner remained in the chair. He expressed regret that Mr. Murray was 
unable to be present. As immediate past President, Mr. VanWagner spoke 
highly of the incoming President promising his cooperation and soliciting the 
support of the membership for the new Executive. 

Hon. President—Miss Mary Edgar 

Past President—Mr. F. M. VanWagner 

President—Mr. K. H. Murray 

Secretary—Mrs. Agnes Mutchler 

Treasurer—Mr. W. J. C. Hewetson 

Executive Secretary—Miss Frances Kelly 

Vice-Presidents: Mr. A. Zisi, Pres. Nova Scotia C.A. 

Mrs. A. Kahn, Pres. Quebec C.A. 

Miss M. Govan, Pres. Ontario C.A. 

Rev. R. Harper, Pres. Manitoba C.A. 

Mr. G. McKeen, Pres. Alberta C.A. 

Mrs. P. Broome, Acting Pres. British Columbia C.A. 

It was unanimously approved by the members. 


GREETINGS: 

I was highly honoured on February 23, 1961, when, at the Annual Meeting 
of the Canadian Camping Association, I was elected President. 

It has been my good fortune to have known all of the Past Presidents of 
the C.C.A. and some have been close friends. Their contributions have been 
great and it would take a much better man than I to stand up and make 
promises to do anything which might bear any resemblance to anything they 
have done. 

As I look back I see tremendous progress which has been made and as I 
look ahead I know I am not going to carry anything alone. We can not show 
progress except through team work and this I am sure will be done. We have 
a strong Executive and with our Executive Secretary, Francis Kelly, we can be 
sure of an efficiently run office, which is no necessary for an effective organization. 
We could never go back to the volunteer office work of the earlier days of our 
Association. 

Actually our Canadian Camping Association is no better than our Provincial 
Associations and it is up to all of us to keep each link strong across our whole 
Country. You are the Canadian Camping Association representatives in your 
own provinces. Our binding links are the Executive and the Canadian Camping 
Magazine. 

In closing my first remarks as President, I should like particularly to 
congratulate Barry Lowes and the Editorial Committee for their fine work on 
the Magazine. It is the voice of the Canadian Camping movement and it is a 
credit to our Association. 

KEN MURRAY— 

President Canadian Camping Association . 

-# 


166 


Canadian Camping 



NOW 


CAMPERS 


IT'S FOR YOU! 

THE MOST PERFECT BEGINNERS 


FROM 8 TO 80 


KIT EVER OFFERED! 


PIES FOR CAMPERS 

Wise campers use Stafford's pie filling and bake a 
pie in HALF THE TIME. Stafford's pie filling is 
ready-to-use. Just pour it in the pie shell, and pop it 
in the oven. Out comes a tender, flaky pie no camper 
can resist, with his favorite filling—pineapple, mince¬ 
meat, raisin, raspberry, blueberry, cherry, apple, boysen- 
berry, apricot or peach. 


Stafford 


Stafford 

tOYSIHBERRY P* 


1 “yiSSMbtKKI 

Do as the wise cooks do. Keep your campers full and & VaMxmjx 

apy with Stafford's delicious fruit pies. ® 


37 Hanna Ave. 


Toronto 


BRANCHES: 

MONCTON, MONTREAL, WINNIPEG, CALGARY, EDMONTON, VANCOUVER 


WHEN YOU BUY A 


KIT 

INCLUDES 

8 tools; 9 popular 
precut leather proj¬ 
ects (billfold, wallet, 
etc.); lacing; leather 
finish; easy instruc¬ 
tions; FREE six month 
, subscription to "The 
Leather Craftsman." 


MODERN 
LEATHERCRAFT 
KIT.$14.95 


Earn money enjoying "spare time" . . . 
with Icathercraft! Expert methods, instruc¬ 
tions help you learn while making items 
that sell. Carl T. of Cincinnati earns $400 
a year "extra”. You can too, order your 
Modern Leathercraft Kit today! 

Write for FREE 64 page catalog 

TANDY LEATHER CO. s ,” 


P.O. BOX 340-CC 


BARRIE, ONTARIO 


Toronto , Canada , June 1961 


167 






Sermons ®nfcer Cjje Sun Y.W.C.A . Cam/> Tapawingo . 


The best sermon under the sun is 
one that is not “preached”. Children do 
not like to be “preached at.” Rather, 
do they like to share some thought of 
yours—or better still, to share some 
thought of theirs with you. It has been 
my experience that a small thought with 
a large meaning can best be grasped and 
understood by young persons. The 
thought they grasp immediately, the 
larger meaning behind the thought will 
grow and develop as the child grows 
and develops. It is important that these 
thoughts yoif share with your campers 
and staff sholild apply to you also. In 
fact, you should be careful to point out 
that they do apply to you. 

God has created a new day, 

All silver and green and gold, 

Live that the sunset may find you, 
Worthy its gifts to hold. 

These four lines even the youngest 
child can understand. Just for to-day, 
I have to be kind, love my neighbours, 
be lovely, do no ugly or mean thing. 
One day is an easy span of time for 
children to comprehend. Later, those 
same children will realize that such 
attitudes practiced one day at a time 
have become their patterns of be¬ 
haviour for all time. 

Children like little poems. Thoughts 
in rhyme tend to linger longer in their 
minds. 

Let me be a little kinder, 

Let me be a little blinder, 

To the faults of those around me. 

—Or— 

I have to live with myself 
And so, I have to be fit for myself 
to know, 

I don’t want to keep on a closet shelf, 
A lot of secrets about myself. 

—Or— 

God who touchest earth with beauty, 
Make me lovely too. 

The best sermon under the sun, very 
often, is the thought we share with each 
other at flag raising—as we begin, 


together, a new day, all silver and 
green and gold. We sit on the rocks 
at our camp, each morning, facing the 
east, watching the sun creep up over 
the hill, over the tree tops and, finally, 
over the dining hall roof. We listen 
to the slap of the water on the shore 
behind us. We see and hear a new day 
dawning. We know we have a fresh, 
new, shiny day in which to be a little 
kinder, a little blinder, a little more 
lovely than we were yesterday. It really 
matters little that we can not hear all 
the words of the poem or story being 
read by that particular camper on that 
particular morning. We are sharing 
something very lovely in the presence of 
each other, the dawning of a new, silver 
and green and gold start. We know by 
the reader’s expression that she is say¬ 
ing something that is important to 
her—and, so to us. 

Every child and every staff member 
has some precious thought to share with 
you and the rest of the camp. En¬ 
courage them to share it. Have plenty 
of reference material easily accessible 
to the cabin group and also to the 
camper council as they plan their 
thought for the day or plan for the 
Sunday Chapel Service. Let them talk 
to you. Don’t you do all the talking 
at them. Because, little shared thoughts 
with homely meanings are the best 
sermons under the sun.—This poem 
by a camper tells us so. 

A CAMPER 

I feel, dear God, I’d like to pray 
About the things I’ve seen today, 
The flowers and trees with heads 
held high, 

The grasses, birds, and blue of sky. 
The wonder of it is so fine, 

It doesn’t seem that it is mine , 

The asters, roses, poplars and pine, 
Sweet honeysuckle and light 
columbine. 

I’ve seen some lovely things today. 

I feel, dear God, I’d like to pray. 


168 


Canadian Camping 



Your Chance to Sprinkle Star Dust 


PROGRAMME PLANNING For The 
DAY CAMP 


In a broad sense nearly everything 
that happens in your camp is pro¬ 
gramme, for quite as much developing 
of campers as persons may go on in 
the bus trip from town, in the pool 
dressing room, in the camp council 
meeting, as in an afternoon special 
activity of the Red Devil’s group. 
However, in most Day Camps, when 
we speak of the “Programme”, we 
mean those activities organized around 
the needs and interest of boys and girls 
from 8-12 years of age, who are with 
us for a definite period of time during 
the day. 

Because needs, interests and abilities 
are basically the same for all children 
in this age group, there are certain 
established areas of programme em¬ 
phasis which are likely to appear in any 
Day Camp Programme. Opportunity 
to make new friends or join old ones, 
to learn new skills, to experiment with 
arts and crafts using supplies or natural 
materials, to live with heightened 
awareness in the out of doors—all of 
these are most important. 

It is not so much how programme is 
planned that is of major importance, 
but why. We are living in uncertain 
times. Present restlessness is a reflection 
of this. Young people are “on the 
wing” and show a reluctance to attach 
themselves to anything that might mean 
responsibility or continuity of effort. 
A director has to find ways to make 
informal programme mean something 


Judith Sule, 
Scarborough Y.W.C.A. 


beyond the recreation of the day. Each 
child should be caught, not taught, by 
the wonder of life. 

Delight seems to be the missing in¬ 
gredient in most camp programme. The 
over-organized period type of pro¬ 
gramme does not give a child a chance 
to be himself, to stop and soak in some 
atmosphere, to hear a bird call, or 
watch a flower trembling from the 
assault of a pollen ladened bee, to lie 
freckled with sunlight watching a pert 
squirrel gather his dinner. To live with 
delight is the greatest gift anyone can 
have. In planning programme think of 
looking for staff who can create the 
climate for fun and are not merely 
skilled wardens of the group of ten. : 

Outside of the constants which every 
good programme contains such as, 
opening, lunch and rest period, special 
activities, parents night and closing, 
you should plan for each group to 
experiment with free time. In the 
winter children run from one organized 
activity to another. They rise and set 
with bells, as do their parents. Summer 
is the golden time to store memories, 
as well as Vitamin D. A great deal 
of learning in group living can go on 
in a “what would you do if’ session, 
e.g. The counsellor sits down with the 
group and asks what would you do if 

turn to page 178 


T or onto, Canada ^-June 1961 


169 



from page 159 

(4) Information regarding special 
care, Special needs, requests from fam¬ 
ily physician and parents, diets, serum 
injections, rest, etc., should be com¬ 
piled as early as possible by the doctor, 
and given to each member of the staff 
who will have responsibility for the 
camper—(Counsellor, swimming direc¬ 
tor, dietitian, riding instructor, etc.). 
Much of this information can be sent 
out or at least prepared before the 
opening of camp. It is embarassing to 
find that in the rush of opening days 
in camp, some important medical or 
dietary instructions have been over¬ 
looked for a week or more. 

(5) Records of weight kept by the 
medical staff should be made at 
frequent intervals to check and guide 
camp activity for the individual camper. 

(6) Sanitary inspections should be 
under the direction of the medical staff. 

RESPONSIBILITY OF 
CAMP STAFF 

The activities of each camper 
throughout the 24 hour period are 
under the guidance and supervision 
of the staff. Here the counsellor serves 
as the most important single force in 
determining whether or not preventive 
measures are practiced in the daily 
routine of the camper. A few brief 
notes are listed upon some of the points 
which deserve consideration by a first- 
rate counsellor. 

(1) Daily Inpection — A thorough 
daily inspection by the counsellor of 
each camper will locate early signs of 
health defects and enable preventive 
measures to be undertaken. 

(2) Morning Dip —This should not be 
compulsory. It should not be allowed 


for certain children who show a ten¬ 
dency to over-ti red ness and children 
who are underweight. In any case, it 
should be a dip, and not a swim . 

(3) Teeth —Improper care of the teeth 
during a camp season can result in defi¬ 
nite damage and may break a routine 
which has been established at home. 

(4) Airing of Beds —This is more im¬ 
portant in tents and summer cabins 
than in a city home. The cleanliness 
and changing of bed linen is a preven¬ 
tive factor in such diseases as impetigo, 
A bed-wetter will not be able to hide 
this trouble if airing of beds is enforced. 

(5) Clothing —In early morning, cloth¬ 
ing should be heavier than at any other 
hour of the day, particularly after a 
morning dip. Sweaters and coats can 
be discarded after breakfast if the 
weather is warm. 

(6) Sun-Tan —This should be acquired 
gradually. The skin should be covered 
before you think that a burn can start. 
The time of exposure can be increased 
each day. 

(7) Fatigue —This is one of the most 
important things to avoid. Excessive 
tiredness over a period of time can do 
a great deal to decrease the benefits of 
camping. When present, it increases 
the risk of infections. Prevention of 
fatigue is most important during the 
first and the last weeks of camp. It 
requires some study on the part of the 
staff to pick out those children with 
low tolerance to certain activity. The 
exercise tolerance for each individual 
is variant. 

(8) Rest Periods —The rest hour after 
lunch and the early morning period 
before the rising bell are important 
times for supervision. Bedtime should 
not be a “bedlam”. The last half hour 


170 


Canadian Camping 



of the evening programme should tone 
off to provide a suitable frame of mind 
for sleep. An evening programme which 
ends with a “bang” or is late in ending 
is a failure from a preventive medical 
view. 

(9) Swimming —Long swims of dis¬ 
tance or time should be discouraged, as 
they serve no useful purpose and might 
produce physical harm. Diving is not 
desirable for campers with a tendency 
to frequent colds and sinus trouble. 

(10) Hot Bath —At least once a week 
is an essential for all young children. 
It is a good preventive for all ages 
against skin infection. 

i 

(11) Towels —A clean towel for each 
camper is necessary; towels should not 
be shared. 

(12) Mealtime —A child at camp needs 
a balanced diet more than at home, as 
he is more active. Behaviour at meal¬ 
time is important in determining his 
mental and physical health. Loss of 
appetite, should be regarded as an early 
sign of. some upset (mental or physi¬ 
cal) . Loss of appetite often marks the 
onset of an illness. Dining room “at¬ 
mosphere”, will, in some individuals 
affect appetite and digestion. 

(13) Canoe Trips — Inspection for 
minor cuts, scrapes, slivers, etc., is more 
important while away from medical 
help. Instructions in first-aid treatment 
suitable for possible emergencies in the 
individual camp, should be studied and 
taught by the camp physician before 
trips are sent out. 

(14) First Aid Kits and Remedies — 
These can be packed away. The coun¬ 
sellor can point out that the camp pro¬ 
vides the necessary equipment. In this 
way the medical staff will be consulted 
early for all minor cuts, etc. 


(15) Laxatives —The bringing of laxa¬ 
tives by campers from home should be 
discouraged. The diet should be regu¬ 
lated to take care of proper elimination. 

(16) Riding — Injuries while riding 
horseback, such as cuts, wounds and 
scrapes, are most important and should 
be reported to the medical staff at once. 

STAFF MEETINGS 

Health conferences at intervals dur¬ 
ing the camp season can do much to 
foster close co-operation between staff 
and medical personel. General camp 
health programme as well as the health 
of individual campers can be discussed. 

The idea of prevention in the camp 
health programme can be profitably 
brought up at crucial periods during 
the camp season. For example, the first 
and last weeks are the periods when 
fatigue is most evident. - : 

While health must be a major* con¬ 
sideration in the programme at all 
times, it must become a basic reality of 
the everyday life of the camp rather than 
existing as a self-conscious, specialized 
aspect of camp activity. Health should 
be practiced rather than preached; and 
its ultimate aim should be not how 
much children know about it, but the 
place they give it in their daily lives. 

Reprints of this article may be se¬ 
cured from the office of the Ontario 
Camping Association, 93 Yorkville Ave. f 
Toronto. Price 10 cents. 

—# 


Toronto, Canada, June 1961 


171 



With food costs spiralling this article 
makes interesting reading 


Feeding A Camp 
On A Limited Budget 


Just as the “army travels on its 
stomach”, the success of a summer 
camp depends on the food. The chal¬ 
lenge presented in feeding a welfare 
camp is to prepare meals that are tasty 
and nutritious on a limited budget. 
This can be accomplished by wise 
buying and good cooking. 

Therefore, your camp cook is a very 
important member of your staff. The 
cook should be able to prepare meals 
that are attractive, imaginative and 
economical. The ability to literally 
“measure stomachs”, thus eliminating 
waste, and to use leftovers, is of great 
importance. 

Macaulay Camp is owned and oper¬ 
ated by the Montreal Presbytery of 
the United Church of Canada and is 
situated at L’Original, Ontario, on the 
south side of the Otawa River, five 
miles west of Hawkesbury. It is essen¬ 
tially a camp for mothers and small 
children who cannot afford a summer 
vacation of their own. These welfare 
groups are divided approximately into 
one-third mothers, one-third children 
from 6 to 11 years of age, and one- 
third children under 5 years of age. 
About 10 per cent of this last group 
are of “high chair age”. The coun¬ 
sellors are volunteers and are recruited 
from the churches of Montreal. The 
remaining time available during the 
summer is used by the Young Peoples 
Union and the Cubs from the Laur- 
entian area. 


by /. G. Lang, Manager, Macaulay Camp 
and Barbara Lang Ross . 


A registered nurse has the respon¬ 
sibility of preparing, arranging and 
supervising the feeding of the babies 
under two years of age. She and the 
cook must work in close cooperation. 
Canned baby and junior foods, milk 
puddings, cooked breakfast cereals, 
stews, prepared vegetables and fruit 
juices are used for this age group. 

These children are fed one-half hour 
before the general meal. The nurse 
arranges the food on a large table in 
the dining room and the mothers bring 
their babies, place them in high chairs, 
and feed them. The nurse watches and 
advises. It is an excellent time for a 
close association of “mother and nurse”. 

The Director and counsellors eat in 
a separate dining room before the main 
meal so that they will be able to wait 
on tables and supervise the babies on 
campus while the mothers and older 
children are eating. 

The main dining room is equipped 
with tables which seat ten persons. 
The seating is arranged as follows: 

1. Mothers only. 

2. Mothers and young children who 
are not able to eat their meals 
alone. 

3. Young children. 

4. Older girls. 

5. Older boys. 

One of the most important points to 
stress with the counsellors waiting on 


172 


Canadian Camping 



table is that they must continually 
urge the children to try unfamiliar 
dishes. A good counsellor will praise 
the food, tell the campers how deli¬ 
cious it is (as they had aten earlier) 
and how lucky everyone is to have such 
a good cook. There are always some 
boys and girls who are better “eaters” 
than others, and when possible, they 
should be served first. We find it help¬ 
ful for the cook to go into the dining 
room during mealtime to chat with 
the mothers, children and counsellors. 
In this way she can learn from the 
eating habits, encourage the eating of 
unfamiliar dishes, and above all else, 
notice what is left on the plates. Food 
not eaten is money thrown away. 

In preparing menus, I have learned 
from my thirty years experience, that 
it is pointless to be concerned about 
serving an extensive variety of foods. 
For example, I used to rotate the 
cooked cereals for breakfast. In turn 
we served rolled oats (oatmeal), cream 
of wheat, cracked wheat and vita-b. 
We found oatmeal cereal so much more 
popular than the others, that now, 
except on rare occasions, we serve only 
oatmeal. Of course, for the babies 
we serve cream of wheat as well, and 
there is always pablum available. Cold 
cereals, such as cornflakes, shredded 
wheat, all-bran, rice crispies, etc. are 
allowed to be served to the campers 
on demand (not placed on the tables) 
although on cool mornings we restrict 
their use. Our breakfast menu in¬ 
cludes fruit, either oranges or prunes, 
the cereal as discussed above, toast 
and assorted jams. We serve bacon or 
eggs every morning, the eggs being 
boiled or scrambled. 

For our dinner meal, which we 
serve at noon, we have found that 
hamburger meat prepared in different 
ways has the most appeal for children 
of the age group that we have. Ham¬ 
burger also gives us an excellent 
opportunity to use leftovers by grind¬ 


ing and adding meat remaining from 
other meals. We serve this meat in a 
variety of ways—as hamburger, a stew, 
meat loaf, meat sauce, shepherd pie, 
meat pie, meat balls or chili con carne. 
Sharing the popularity of hamburger for 
the dinner meat are sausages, weiners 
and liver. Our cook can prepare beef 
liver so well that it is mistaken for calf’s 
liver. For the mothers, counsellors and 
staff, more variety in meat is given. 

A roast is served once or twice a 
week, providing cold meat for the 
supper meal, occasionally chops, swiss 
steak, etc., and every Friday baked 
fish. Potatoes and a vegetable, either 
canned or whatever fresh vegetable 
is available in season rounds out the 
meat course. For dessert at dinner 
we serve homemade pie (pumpkin, 
raisin, apple, cherry, lemon, butter¬ 
scotch, etc.), puddings (rice, bread, 
apple crisp, upsidedown cakes, rice 
and raisins, powders, steamed tapioca, 
ginger bread, etc.) jellos, shortcakes 
and cookies. 

For suppers, here are a few sug¬ 
gestions that we have found successful: 
egg dishes, tomato scallop, fried or 
scalloped potatoes, cold meats, hot 
dogs, fish chowder, salads, creamed 
salmon aand peas, macaroni, spaghetti, 
hash, beans and cheese dishes. Fruit 
desserts are served at supper time. If 
we can obtain a fresh fruit such as 
apples, peaches, watermelon, plums or 
bananas, we do so, but failing this, 
we serve canned fruit. At suppertime 
we always have cake, baked by the 
cook. We have found that soup is 
not too well liked by the children, 
although it is appreciated by the adults 
on cool days. When served, it is done 
at the supper meal. 

“Raw stuff” is a term we use for 
carrot sticks, green onions, cucumbers, 
sliced tomatoes, celery and radishes. A 
selection of these is on the table for 
both the noon and evening meals. 

turn to page 175 


Toronto 3 Canada , June 1961 


173 




GEORGE O'DAY SAYS 


Here’s a real 

assist for turning campers 

into sailors — fast! 


I960 OLYMPIC 
SAILING GOLD 
MEDALIST 


You've never read anything like 
this to give a neophyte confidence 
in trying to learn to sail. Sailing is 
easy and this book makes it look 
and sound easy and safe. 

You'll find it written in breezy, 
easy-to-understand language by 
Lorna Slocombe and George O'Day, 
1960 Olympic Sailing Gold Medal¬ 
list. The illustrations are priceless 
—amusing and to the point. You'll 
want one for every camper-sailor. 

Learning to sail at camp is great 
fun. Campers love it. We'd like 
to talk to you about camp sailing 
programmes and about the boats 
you need. 

Send a dollar for your copy of 
"Have Fun Learning to Sail" today. 
Quantity discounts so you can 
supply your camper-sailors. 


40 pages of illustrations and easy-to-understand 
instructions on sailing fundamentals. 


20 FRONT ST. W. TORONTO 1, ONT. 


174 


Canadian Camping 





from page 1 73 

These foods can be prepared and kept 
in the refrigerator for a number of 
days. Pickles and cheese are on the 
adult tables for supper. 

During the latter part of July and all 
of August when fresh vejestabies and 
fruits arc cheaper, we serve a lot of 
corn on the cob, tomatoes, apples, 
peaches and berries. Being in a farm¬ 
ing district, we are able to purchase 
most of these foods direct from the 
farmer. 

Ontario law demands that our milk 
be pasturized and bought from the 
local daiy. We experimented with pow¬ 
dered milk but found that the necessary 
labour involved was a serious draw¬ 
back. So now we serve whole milk 
for breakfast, in bottles, and for econ¬ 
omical reasons, skim milk for lunch 
and supper. 

Our facilities for refrigeration and 
cooking we find very adequate. A 


large walk-in refrigerator, 8' x 6' and 
7' high, is built to specifications advised 
by the Ontario Department of Agri¬ 
culture. It is operated by a cold air 
blower system which provides us with 
dry cold rather l. an da.np cold. Our 
stove is a restau ant si e propane gas 
stove, with 12 burners and 2 x 24" 
ovens. 

In spite of the increase in the cost 
of food, in the past five years we have 
been able to limit the increase in our 
costs at Macaulay Camp. We serve 
approximately 500 meals a day, and 
counting the cost of food alone, our 
costs have risen from 19 cents per 
person per meal in 1955 to 20 cents 
in 1960. A good cook, and a constant 
vigilance on the matter of waste can 
save a camp many dollars. For this 
department to be successful, a great 
deal of the manager’s time must be 
spent on the affairs of the kitchen and 
dining room. —• 


SUMMER CAMP 

SEPTIC TANK CLEANING SERVICE 


• Yearly contracts or emergency service 
• Septic tanks, grease traps, drains 
P J ■ IlftjJ • Sanitary, odorless pumping trucks 

- JOHN E. DEAN CO. LTD. 

5437 Yonge $t. # Willowdale, Ont. — BA. 5-8885 


„ SchneiderS 

If *'Famous for Quality 

F PORTION CONTROLLED 

. STEAKS • CHOPS • CUTLETS 
• VAC PAC BEEF ROASTS 

J. M. SCHNEIDER LIMITED 

KITCHENER • ONTARIO 


Toronto, Canada, June 1961 


175 



from page 160 

I feel very strongly that crafts at 
camp should be related as much as 
possible to camp life, materials and 
designs around the camp. “City crafts” 
can be followed at home; let them now 
make use of native materials. The art 
of pioneering, life cycles, Indian lore, 
nature themes, natural patterns and 
designs, the whole of God’s world can 
be used as themes and bases for 
crafts. They need never become stereo¬ 
typed. Variety should be encouraged. 
Each child should be helped to develop 
and individaul idea for one personal 
item to take home, and for the group 
project as a contribution to the camp. 

The following is a list of things that 
are simple to do, and demand little 
in the way of material and equipment. 
Space does not permit detailed instruc¬ 
tions; these may be found in library 
books on crafts techniques. I shall 
attempt only to present ideas we have 
carried out, and list the necessary 
materials, hoping other crafts instruc¬ 
tors will have as much fun as we did 
in completing them. 

Cabin or Camp Pictures—a piece 
of plywood is the background. Twigs, 
cedar tips (for trees), sand, dry grass, 
birch bark, moss, small stones, shells, 
can be used in the “relief” scene. 
Frame it with 1" or twigs split. 
For hanging the finished picture, two 
screw eyes and picture wire. Other 
necessities: strong, clear glue (not 
plastic cement), sharp knives, fine saw, 
shoe nails, plywood. These pictures 
will retain their “woodsy” odour for 
years; but use dye only for colouring, 
rather than paint. 

Mobiles—hang from clothes hangers 
or small logs and rope. Use paper 
cutouts of birds, bees, flowers, stars, 
butterflies, pressed leaves, etc. Neces¬ 
sary materials: wood from fruit baskets, 


Bristol Board, pulp board, straight 
clothes pegs, fine strong string, sharp 
scissors, sharp knives, fret saw, pipe 
cleaners, crayons and poster paint. Try 
mounting nature specimens as a 
Mobile. Interesting! 

Papier Mache — made from news¬ 
paper pulp, or paper towels. Materials 
necessary: paste, glue size, shellac, scis¬ 
sors, knives, paint, brushes. This can 
be made into vases, bowls, masks, 
jewellery, puppets, dolls, relief maps of 
district or camp site. 

Indian Dolls—may be made from 
nylon stockings stuffed with leaves, or 
dry grass, cedar fonds or pine needles 
or spaghnum moss; from plywood or 
heavy double corrugated board, or 
from dry corn cobs with corn tassles 
for hair. Unbleached cotton may be 
used to cover papoose board. 

Crests, Shields, Cabin Signs—cut 
from plywood and the design applied 
to the surface. Material necessary: 
paint and brushes, saws, knives, ham¬ 
mer and nails. Screw eyes and picture 
wire for hanging. 

Leather Medallions or Coasters—Ob¬ 
tain scrap leather from suppliers. Cut 
circles of leather about J4" larger 
than tin can lids (ask kitchen staff to 
save them). Use two leather circles, 
pnuch them and lace them together. 
Carve or paint design on one side, 
initial the other, or use camp crest. 
Materials needed: Leather disks; tin 
lids; 1 leather punch; lacing, paints, 
brushes. 

Twig Jewellery—Materials needed: 
twigs, sliced straight or on an angle 
in small pieces; sharp knives, fret saw, 
fine hand drill, butcher cord, paint. 
Earrings, necklets and brooches may 
be waxed to bring out the wood’s 
natural shade. They may be carved or 
painted with bright colours. 


176 


Canadian Camping 



Kites—Materials necessary: balsa- 
wood strips or whittled twigs or split 
bamboo the size of the desired kite; 
tissue paper, string, glue, knives, 
scissors. 

Outdoor Ovens—Materials required: 
Large juice tins, tin snips, stove pipe 
wire, pliers. 

Animal Cut-Outs — Materials re¬ 
quired; thin wood from fruit baskets, 
heavy cardboard, Universal fasteners, 
drill or punch, paint, knives, fret saw. 

Birch Bark Book Marks. Serviette 
Rings, Coasters—Gather birch bark 
from dead birch trees. Soak it and 
press it between newspaper on a firm 
base, and weighted down with rocks. 
Cut it into strips and decorate. It can 
be punched and laced with raffia. 
Serviette rings must be sewn or glued 
together, and laced with raffia. 


Felt Crests—Materials required: Le- 
Page’s Glue (All-Purpose Bond Fast) 
Scissors, Punch, Pencils, Felt. 

Tincraft—Camp lanterns and candle 
holders of all designs may be made 
from tin, but it requires careful hand¬ 
ling with tinsnips. 

This is a very brief list of suggestions, 
presented merely to start the imagina¬ 
tion working. The following books 
are suggested for instructions and many 
other ideas: 

The Golden Book of Camp Craft— 
Musson Book Co. 

10c Crafts for Kids—Jane Wardwell 
Easy Crafts for Campers—Hammett 
and Horrocks 

Easy Crafts—Ellsworth Jaeger 
Things to Make Yourself— 

Glenn Wagner 

Make it Yourself—Bernice Carlson 
G. R. Welch & Co., Etobicoke, Ont. 
can supply them. —• 


NORTHERN ONTARIO'S FINEST RECREATIONAL AREA, FROM 
NORTH BAY TO MOOSONEE, IS SERVED BY 

ONTARIO NORTHLAND RAILWAY 

For information on desirable areas for Camps in new territory 
apply to: 

R. P. C. McLEOD, 

Traffic Manager, 

Ontario Northland Railway, 
North Bay, Ontario. 


BOAT ACCESSORIES 

for every type of Water Craft 

A complete line of equipment for every marine need carried in 
our showrooms — 

SAILS - HARDWARE - ROPE - CANVAS - PAINTS - VARNISHES 
GLUES and COMPOUNDS, Etc. 

TOM TAYLOR LIMITED 

The Best in Quality and Service 

81 Front Street East EMpire 3-8761-2 Toronto, Ontario 


Toronto, Canada, June 1961 


177 








GUMPERT HAS EVERYTHING 

__ 1 


Trip Ute* 

Cream Desserts 

Fto l, Drinks (liquid end Dchydro.edl 
Griddle & Waffle Mix 
Spaghetti Sauce 

Soups (Liquid and Dehydrated* 
Gelatine Desserts 
Instant Mashed Potatoes 


FOR THE FINEST IN FOODS 


GUMPERT 


HAS EVERYTHING 


S. GUMPERT CO. OF CANADA, LTD. 

31 BROCK AVE., TORONTO LE. 1-5758 


FOR SALE 

Well-established—well equipped Boys' 
Summer Camp for sale. Sleeping 
quarters capacity 204 people. Can 
accommodate 150 campers and 54 
staff. Standard land, water activities 
and one of the finest canoe tripping 
programmes on the North American 
Continent. Approximately 40 miles 
from Huntsville, Ontario. For further 
particulars, reply: 

Canadian Camping Magazine Company 
170 Bloor St. West Toronto 5, Ontario 
Telephone: WAInut 4-7117 



PAINTS 

SOLIGNUM STAINS 


A FULL LINE OF PROTECTIVE 
COATINGS FOR YOUR CAMP 

9 Sturgeon Rd. PLymouth 

Scarborough 5-1171 


from page 169 

you had a million dollars. You may 
find to your surprise there is very little 
fantasy in their answers. This group 
would probably buy split level houses, 
clothes, washing machines, cars—no¬ 
body wants to buy an elephant, an 
ocean liner, a castle or a magic carpet. 
The counsellor now has the opportunity 
to discuss with the children some other 
values, force them to stretch their 
spiritual muscles and develop some pro¬ 
gramme interest perhaps about other 
cultures and ways of life. Then the 
programme battery can come into 
action. Books can be read, costumes or 
props can be made, plays can be written 
and presented to other groups in camp. 
Music and dancing can be added. 
From a simple game of letting children 
talk, a useful project has developed. 

The wonders of nature can be intro¬ 
duced the same way. Instead of setting 
off on a “nature hike”, go for a walk 
and as you walk, speculate about what 
you see. How does a ground hog live? 
I wonder what kind of a mother she is ? 
What do they eat? What kind of a 
flower would this be? You are for¬ 
tunate if you have a counsellor who 
can answer these questions and progress 
to some real study of the subject, but 
any counsellor can stimulate the in¬ 
terest and seek the answers together 
with the children. 

Planning for rainy days can often 
be difficult, especially if they continue 
for any length in one camp period. It 
is wise to save mystery or surprise 
programme for these days. Rain in 
camp too often is treated as a thing of 
gloom or disappointment. This is the 
wrong attitude. Rain is the stuff of 
life for the forest. Can you not prepare 
children to wear waterproof clothing 
on cloudy days. After the worst is 
over, walk through the fresh wet woods 
and show children sparrows bathing, the 


178 


Canadian Camping 







bright faces of washed flowers, the 
rainbow which cradles your campsite 
and all the life which a change in 
weather brings out. If you must be 
inside, then try all camp entertainment. 
No child is happier than when involved 
in talent shows, impromptu skits, mass 
games. I remember one rainy week, 
when we were sure that the days of 
the flood had returned, when a group 
of eight year old campers acted out a 
Chinese legend and made it into a 
serial to be continued each rainy day. 

With guidance, approval and help in 
where to marshal resource material, 
counsellors rise to the challenge of this 
kind of programme. Their interest is 
awakened and they want to work. I 
have found there is less inclination to 
let children do aimless crafts or activity. 
Also, since each group is embarked on 
a different project, there is less com¬ 
petition and more sharing between 
counsellors. The whole feeling in camp 
is one of discovery. When children 
rush to the supply centre with snapping 
eyes and excited calls of “Guess what 
we’re doing!”, and according to their 
parents talk straight through dinner 
about the fun at camp, you have gen¬ 
erated that “plus” which makes your 
camp a special place. 

As camp director, you have within 
your grasp a chance to sprinkle star 
dust for a child—how much more 
valuable is this than a suitcase full of 
bead necklaces and tea pot stands, or 
even a tadpole swimming certificate. 
Think back to this verse from 1st 
Corinthians: “When I was a child, I 
spake as a child, I understood as a 
child, I thought as a child: but when 
I became a man, I put away childish 
things.” As adults working with and 
for children, we should cherish rather 
than put away childish things. 



Make it a requirement that all 
campers* clothing and belongings 
are marked with 


NAMES 
WOVEN 

Camp linen and equipment, too, 
should be marked to avoid con¬ 
fusion and loss. Names, numbers, or 
special markings can be supplied. 

Ask for details of our special 
service to Camp Owners and 
Operators. 

order CASH'S WOVEN NAMES 
from dealers, or 

CASH'S, Belleville 32, Ontario 

Name: 3 doz. $1.80 6 doz. $2.40 

Prices: 9 doz. $3.00 12 doz. $3.50 

Wholesale 
Medical 
Supplies • • • 

Medical Equipment 
First Aid Requirements 
Drugs and Medicines 

• 

Low Prices Fast Service 

• 

STARKMAN CHEMISTS 

459 Bloor St. W. - Toronto 
WA. 2 - Twenty-One - Twenty-One 



Toronto, Canada , June 1961 


179 



TOWARDS BETTER PRACTICES AND HIGHER STANDARDS 


A Statement Commissioned by the National Committee 
on Youth Programme of the YMCA’i of Canada 

The Young Men’s Christian Association is one of the many organizations 
working constantly for ever-highcr standards and for better practices in the 
field of organized Children’s Camping. 

Canada’s first organized camp was conducted by a YMCA Secretary at 
Truro, Nova Scotia, in 1890, and by the year 1905 there were thirteen different 
YMCA camps in Ontario and Quebec. 

Rating scales, evaluation forms, and visitations, are certainly not new tools 
for camping people, since as early as 1922 an extensive system of grading 
YMCA camps was inaugurated by the Ontario and Quebec Boys’ Work 
Committee. This system gave points for meeting standards in such areas as 
sanitation, site, equipment, programme, organization and administration, con¬ 
servation, printed reports and statements! In more recent years, a major 
camping consultation gave impetus to further standard-raising programmes in 
1947, and since that date the printed statements regarding “Minimum Stan¬ 
dards”, “Desirable Practices”, and “Camping Guideposts” have become an 
integral part of this work. The self-evaluation form and the visitors’ appraisal 
form now used by Canadian YMCA camps have been in use (with modifications 
and developments) since 1953. 

The National Committee on Youth Programme has made particular use 
of the following techniques in its efforts to assist and encourage local associations 
to achieve high standards in their camping programmes: 

—Visitations 

—Use of an Appraisal Form 

—Use of a Self-Evaluation Form 

—Regional “Get-Togethers” of YMCA Camp Directors 

—Camp Directors’ Seminars 

—Recommending Active participation in Provincial Camping 
Associations. 

(In this area YMCA Secretaries have given a great deal of leadership from 
coast to coast). 

In recent years the Camping Associations, too, have become exceptionally 
active in the field of “Standards”, and YMCA Secretaries have been encouraged 
to give leadership and wholehearted support to these endeavours. There has 
always been an understanding, of course, that an underlying premise for any 
such voluntary participation in these voluntary associations involves considerable 
opportunities for education and encouragement coupled with certain limitations 
inevitably encountered through the very nature of such associations. 

The National Committee on Youth Programme of the YMCA’s of Canada 
recognizes its close identification with many other organizations, associations, 
and individuals, in the work of raising standards and improving camping 
practices through the use of non-coercive, educative procedures. It will be the 
intention of this committee to lend all possible support to the continuing work 
carried on within this context (which involves a standard in itself) towards the 
achievement of these high goals. —m 


180 


Canadian Camping 



A 

DAY OF 
INDIAN 
GAMES 

by Walter Mingle, 

Director , Canoe Trips and Intermediate 
Section , 

Camp Nominingue. 


This is a “once a season” pro¬ 
gramme for all campers and staff, 
which has been very successful at 
Camp Nominingue for the past two 
years. 

Organization 

The campers are divided into six 
tribes of forty boys each. Each tribe is 
further divided into four sections, the 
youngest members being papooses, next 


braves, scouts, and the oldest, warriors. 
One member of the Senior Staff be¬ 
comes the Tribal Chief and each sec¬ 
tion of the tribe has a counsellor as 
its Chief. The rest of the counsellors 
are ex-officio members of a tribe and 
help run the programme. 

The Opening Games 

After the evening meal, all Tribes 
gather at the games field, each Indian 
stripped to the waist, wearing a blanket 
and his tribal head-band. They are 
welcomed by the Big Chief of Nomin¬ 
ingue—the Camp Director. A flaming 
arrow shoots into the air signalling the 
opening of the games. Inter-Tribal 
challenges ensue, with the winners, 
second and third place Indians scoring 
points for their Tribes and getting a 
coloured mark (water paint) of dis¬ 
tinction painted on their chests. These 
challenges consist of handkerchief 
snatches, paddle holding contests, tug- 
of-war, rooster fights, Indian arm 
wrestles, etc. 

Programme 

Next morning the games continue 
with the Warriors playing lacrosse, the 
Scouts engaging in camp craft com¬ 
petitions, the Braves having water 
games, and the Papooses building In¬ 
dian villages. All points scored are 
entered on a blackboard located cen¬ 
trally at the Dining Hall. In the 
afternoon and evening the programmes 
are rotated so that all sections engage 

turn to page 183 


Toronto , Canada , June 1961 


181 



from page 158 

and her feelings must be respected until 
her attitude changes, if it does. 

Along with this, fears must be re¬ 
spected; for fears and phobias play a 
large part in the lives of children. 
Silly fears, the counsellor may think 
since they are not his fears. And they 
will have nuisance value ... if they 
are fears of thunderstorms, or bugs, 
spiders especially, or hypodermic 
needles, or the water, or of course 
strange noises, or even of the little 
man who isn’t there. Deal with these 
fears we must, but a head on clash is 
not going to get us anywhere. 

A camper’s confidences are confiden¬ 
tial, whether they are shared naturally 
or in a sudden moment of intimacy, or 
through a diary which has been left 
open, or a letter lying on a bed. They 
are not for public edification which 
goes by another name, gossip, and is 
anything but professional. 

A camper has values, and these,, 
albeit they are not adult values or even 
unacceptable socially, merit respect. 
Certainly it may be necessary to change 
them, but not in a face-losing, all out 
wrestling bout with no holds barred. 
And a camper has a right and need 
to make decisions in those areas where 
his maturity and experience enable 
him to make such decisions. Perhaps 
a counsellor needs to help him re-think, 
to widen horizons, to introduce other 
aspects, but his rights must be 
respected. 

And then there is his sense of justice. 
Sometimes a counsellor has to make 
decisions contrary to his campers’ 
wishes, and to hold to those decisions. 
Sometimes there has to be punishment. 
But a counsellor must always remember 
that his logic, his sense of justice, may 
not be fair in the eyes of a small 
camper. Many a cabin group has 


floundered on the rock of the letter 
of the law as interpreted by a 
counsellor. 

All this does not mean license, but 
it does mean sensitive, objective patient 
concern on the part of the counsellors 
in order to see camp and all its com¬ 
plicated experiences through the eyes 
of the camper. 

Emotions should be labelled: EX¬ 
PLOSIVE: HANDLE WITH CARE. 
Children, teenagers especially, have to 
learn to deal with their emotions, and 
experiences of emotional content must 
be provided. Since we are human 
beings our emotions are very impor¬ 
tant; we must love and be loved; 
respond to beauty, to ideals, to a 
philosophy of life; we must have heroes 
to worship, satisfying achievements, 
many and varied experiences in these 
realms; and again on the other side 
of the scale protection from over¬ 
wrought emotions. If we take campers 
up a mountain, we must be sure of the 
route back; if we arouse emotions we 
must provide an out-let throught act¬ 
ivity, discussion, music, personal rela¬ 
tionships. But under no circumstances, 
may a camper be the means of meeting 
the counsellor’s need for affection, ad¬ 
miration, throwing his weight around. 
I think you all know what I mean, even 
though we call it camp spirit or re¬ 
ligion or something else. 

Nor dare we exploit emotions. Some¬ 
times a camp seems ripe for exploita¬ 
tion; this is the temptation of our 
calling. 

If we can, through the selection and 
training of counsellors, provide the 
feeling of well-being and inner content 
for most of our campers, we are well 
on the road towards happiness. And 
if the camper responds there is a 
freeing of his spirit which makes him 
able to throw himself whole-heartedly 
into camping experiences, to make 


182 


Canadian Camping 



friends more readily, to live in har¬ 
mony with others, to find reality. And 
although we need to add some nonsense 
and fun which will result in easy 
laughter and chuckles, little effort will 
be required. However any project must 
be measured against the yardstick of 
fun—for whom? For how many? And 
if there are going to be some left out, 
because this is not their idea of fun, 
or if because of lack of skill, they can 
have no part in it, alternatives must 
be there. 

I believe that if campers experience 
happiness in the interlude of a camp 
holiday, that they will go home more 
self-reliant, more competent to seek 
happiness for themselves and others. 
Furthermore I believe that this is the 
most important most vital carry-over 
that a camp can have. So I plead with 
all of you to put the search for hap¬ 
piness well up on your list of objectives 
—perhaps at the very top! 



from page 181 

in athletic games, water games and 
campcraft competitions. 

Water Games 

The water games start with an inter- 
Tribal half mile war canoe race. Then 
there are various novelty races in 
sixteen foot canoes, such as the four 
man paddling event, with hands only; 
in and out race; poleing race, sub¬ 
marine race and gunwhaling race. The 
final event is an obstacle relay race, 
run in knee deep water. 

Campcraft Competition 

At the campcraft area the Tribal 
Chiefs select Indians from their Tribes 
to compete in tree felling log chopping, 
buck sawing, water boiling, string burn¬ 
ing and stake driving competitions. The 
event for the Tribal Chiefs is a caber 
toss. A relay nail driving contest, 


SPECIALISTS 

in 

Camp Medical Supplies 

and 

First Aid Kits 


A convenient Special Pre-Written 
Order Form for requisitioning your 
camp medical supplies is FREE on 
request. 

Write or Phone . , . 

Ingram & Bell 

LIMITED 
TORONTO 

Montreal - Winnipeg 
Calgary - Vancouver 


where each Indian drives home one 
four inch nail, concluded this com¬ 
petition. 

Finale 

After an evening dip, all Tribe 
members, dressed in pyjamas with 
blankets around them, assembled in 
boats and canoes. They are led snake 
fashion around the lake, ending in a 
large circle around a huge bonfire, 
anchored a hundred yards from shore. 

When all are assembled, the results 
of the Tribal Games are announced. 
As the Tribal yells sound out, the 
bonfire mysteriously bursts into flame, 
shooting flames high into the night 
air. As the bonfire burns low, a few 
well known camp songs are sung, then 
boats and canoes head towards shore 
and the Indians retire to their tents. 
Thus ends the Tribal Games for an¬ 
other season. 

—• 



Toronto , Canada , June 1961 


183 




BOYS’ 

CAMP CLOTHING 
AND 

EQUIPMENT 

Every effort is made by the staff of J. H. BEATTIE to be sure CAMPERS arrive at 
camp fully equipped as requested by each camp. All clothing, bedding and equip¬ 
ment is carefully selected for durability and fit, at the most reasonable prices. 

• SEWING ON NAME TAPES 

Each boy's name sewn on all clothing 
and equipment purchased, at no extra 
cost to the customer. Customer to supply 
rhe name tapes. 

Telephone 
HUdson 1-4459 



•J. II. Ileattie 

TORONTO 


430 Eglinton Avenue West 
Toronto 12 — Ontario 


from page 161 

two reasons: to give parents the ex¬ 
perience of observing the campers in 
action, and to present a yardstick for 
them to determine the worthwhile 
things which their daughters had 
derived from camp life. 

At Wahcahmie, we believe that camp 
is truly “for the camper”. This day 
has always afforded an excellent oppor¬ 
tunity for campers to have a prime 
role in organizing the techniques and 
arrangements for the display. In ad¬ 
dition, they experience the tangible 
values of oc-ordinating their individual 
efforts as a team. Campers and stafT 
work together on all the plans, and 
the group is divided into committees 
to organize the different aspects of the 
programme which evolve around the 
following activities: 

Canoeing —Canoeing safety tests and 
an intricate canoeing design encom¬ 


passing the entire group, both campers 
and staff. 

Ornamental Swimming — an ex¬ 
hibition comprising two parts: The 
Tadpoles in a shallow water routine, 
and the older girls in a deep water 
ballet. 

Diving —a diving display involving 
both serious and comic routines. 

An Archery Shoot. 

A Tribal Water Regatta. 

The staff participates actively, but 
in an advisory capacity, in the organ¬ 
ization and preparation for the day, so 
that the campers must exercise their 
ingenuity and resourcefulness, with 
everyone working together as a team 
for the success of the Water Carnival. 

As well as the committees formed to 
work on the displays, there must be 
additional groups composed of the 


184 


Canadian Camping 






cabin groups with their counsellors to 
handle such details as: 

Camp site supper, including menu, 
work groups, servers and clean - up 
squad. 

Birch bark invitations; 

Decorations; 

Camp tidiness. 

In the event of rainy weather, a 
Rainy Day programme is planned so 
that, if necessary, it can be put into 
action on that day. 

A camper, with a counsellor acting as 
her advisor, serves as the chairman of 
every committee of volunteer campers. 
To illustrate: the duties of the canoe¬ 
ing committee would be to work out 
the pattern for the display. It should 
be mentioned here that the campers 
and staff decided that the entire camp 
should carry through the intricate 
patterns of the design which concluded 
with the camp salute—this event being 
the only all-camp effort of the after¬ 
noon. The canoeing committee would 
also be responsible lor writing the com¬ 
mentary in the canoe safety tests, for 
allotting the canoe crews, and for 
scheduling the practices. 

The campers volunteered to partici¬ 
pate in the various facets of the pro¬ 
gramme with the exception of free 
waterskiing and aquaplaning, and the 
competitive tribal water rgatta—all of 
which were included to round out the 
Carnvial Day. Camper commentators 
kept the parents informed about the 
points of interest in every event. 

In the late afternoon, the scene 
shifted from the waterfront to the 
archery range, and then to the camp 
site for the evening meal prepared by 
the kitchen staff and the campers. 
Chocolate cake baked in the reflector 


oven, burgers and barbecued hot dogs 
toasted over the open fire, were on the 
bill of fare. It was a natural conclusion 
that the parents would be amazed and 
delighted with these culinary skills. 

Later on in the early evening, the 
visitors, as silent observers, were initi¬ 
ated into the Indian Ceremony on 
Council Rock. Our July campers 
carved and painted a Totem pole, and 
presented it in a pageant, while the 
August group gave, as their offering, a 
canvas on which was painted an Indian 
Legend. The canvas was attached by 
leather thongs to a birch structure. 

The closing ceremony was the light¬ 
ing of the CYV (Camp Wahcahmie) 
fashioned of pre-treated burlap and 
wire. This structure was set ablaze on 
the near horizon, and, when the 
coloured flames lit up the night sky, 
it seemed a fitting conclusion to the 
day. It exemplified, in its simplicity, 
the fact that, throughout the day, the 
visitors to Wahcahmie had experienced 
a panorama of camp activities and 
traditions, conceived and organized by 
the camp group as a whole. After Taps 
and the last good-byes, we, at Wahcah¬ 
mie, had the satisfaction of knowing 
that all participants and observers felt 
closely akin to our camp fellowship 
circle. 

In conclusion, might I say that this 
day is a vast project, but its rewards 
are numerous. The campers assume 
responsibility, learn to give and take in 
a group, develop latent leadership 
qualities. In short, they experience the 
fun and satisfaction that grows out of 
working as a group towards one end. 
And then, parents, in turn, derive 
great satisfaction in the tangible proof 
that their camper-daughters are an 
important part of a happy camp group. 


Toronto, Canada , June 1961 


185 


OUR FRiENDS . . . 
Thu Advertisers 


American Camping Association. 186 

J. H. Beattie. 184 

Borden Chemical Co. (Canada) Ltd. ... 144 

Canada Yacht & Boat Centre. 174 

and Inside Back Cover 
J. & J. Cash (Canada) Ltd. 179 

Continental Casualty Co. 

Outside Back Cover 

John E. Dean Co. Ltd. 175 

T. Eaton Co. Ltd. 143 

Foodcraft Laboratories Ltd. 146 

Gibbons Food Ltd.Inside Front Cover 

S. Gumpert Co. of Canada Ltd. 178 

Ingram & Bell Ltd. 183 

Lily Cups Ltd. 145 

Maple Leaf Plastics Ltd. 148 

McKague Chemical Co. Ltd. 150 


CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING RATES: 
Twenty cents a word, minimum five dollars. 
All classified payable in advance. Address all 
correspondence to “Canadian Camping”, 170 
Bloor Street West, Toronto, Ontario. 


Milko Products Ltd. 152 

Ontario Northland Railway. 177 

Roxalin of Canada Ltd. 149 

J. M. Schneider Ltd. 175 

Stafford Foods Ltd. 167 

Starkman Chemists Ltd. 179 

Sturgeons Ltd... 178 

Tandy Leather Co. of Canada Ltd. 167 

Tom Taylor Co. Ltd.. 1 77 

Tilley’s Ltd. 147 

Vermont Accident Insurance Co. 146 

G. H. Wood & Co. Ltd. 148 


FOR SALE 

CAMP WABI-KON 

One of Northern Canada’s finest child¬ 
ren’s camps. For sale, or lease with 
option to buy. Open to any proposal. 
Asking $100,000. Accommodates 300. 
First time offered. Opportunity. For 
particulars write exclusive co-op brokers. 
Owner’s other interests necessitate sale. 

BARRY E. PERLMAN & CO. 

Members Toronto Real Estate Board 

850 Eglinton Are. W., Toronto 10, Ont. 


A Message of Interest . . . 

To readers of CANADIAN CAMPING, 
from the American Camping Association 

It was over two years ago that a group of camp directors in New 
England began the preparation of some practical, down-to-earth resource 
material to help young counsellors deal with the common every-day 
guidance problems they are faced with at camp. The result is the 24-page 
Camper Guidance—A Basic Handbook for Counsellors which was incorporated 
as a monograph in the March 1961 issue of "Camping Magazine." 
It represents up-to-the-minute principles and practices to help counsellors 
in guiding campers, gathered from first-hand experience and from authori¬ 
tative sources. The response has been overwhelming; never before has a 
publication of the American Camping Association been met with such 
enthusiastic reception. 

The initial supply of 6000 reprints were sold within three weeks. 
Additional copies are now available at 75tf per copy; 4-24 copies, 60g; 
25-49 copies, 50£; 50 or more, 40£. 

AMERICAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

Martinsville, Indiana 


186 


Canadian Camping 





































TWO YEARS OF DEVELOPING AND TESTING 
HAS FINALLY RESULTED IN 

A FIBERGLASS CANOE 



that has 


Can be ordered In Camp’s 
two-coloured design If desired. 




THE 

THE 

THE 

THE 

THE 

THE 


DESIGN 

PERFORMANCE 

QUALITY 

STRENGTH 

SAFETY 

BALANCE 


To meet the requirements of the most discriminating 
and experienced camp director. 

ONE LOOK WILL CONVINCE YOU. 

ON DISPLAY AT 


CANADA*' 


ACHT & BOAT CENTRE ltd. 


Open Daily 9 a.m.—9 p.m. 
Sat. 9 a.m.—5 p.m. 


20 FRONT STREET WEST 

TORONTO 
EM. 4-2296 








INCREASING RESPONSE 

for 

CONTINENTAL’S CAMP-GUARD PLAN 




HAS GUARANTEED ITS 
AVAILABILITY 
FOR ANOTHER YEAR 


DISPLAY THIS SYMBOL 

STICKERS AVAILABLE FOR YOUR STATIONERY 


A choice of plans for all organizational, church and 
private camps providing broad medical expense 
protection for each accident and each sickness at low 
cost group rates for both campers and staff members. 


Put CAMP-GUARD on your programme. Display 
this symbol and let parents know your camp is 
covered. This symbol of outstanding coverage 
assures them you take added interest in your 
camper's welfare, by providing a CAMP-GUARD 
accident and sickness plan. 


Your local insurance agent will help you choose the 
right plan for your camp; or write our nearest office 
for full particulars. 


CONTINENTAL CASUALTY COMPANY 

SPECIAL RISKS DIVISION 

640 West Hastings Street 160 Bloor St. East 2100 Drummond Street 

VANCOUVER TORONTO MONTREAL 

MUtual 4-6381 WAInut 4-4692 Victor 9-5306 

607 Imperial Bank Building — EDMONTON — GA. 24642 





