C<IA<I<IMA 

camping 




INTRODUCING 


CCA the <HOW TO ’ series 
AAC la serie 'COMMENT FAIRE ’ 



OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 
L’ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU CANADA — PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 

SUITE 2. 1806 AVENUE ROAD • TORONTO. ONTARIO M5M 3Z1 Vol. 33 No. 4 

TELEPHONE (416) 781-4717 June 1981 














Dispose of camp food 
^ service problems with 

royal ( hi net 

disposable plates and bowls 

Strong, attractive Royal CHINET food service products help you ... 

• DISPOSE OF DISHWASHING COSTS 

Cut the expense of installing, maintaining and manning equipment 
that is used only a few months of the year. 

• DISPOSE OF BREAKAGE 

Save yourself the trouble and expense of buying matching replace¬ 
ments for pieces that crack, chip and shatter. 

• DISPOSE OF FOOD WASTE 

You get exact portion control with Royal CHINET’s wide range of 
sizes in regular and compartmented designs. 

• DISPOSE OF GERM COLLECTORS 

Royal CHINET products are sterilized when manufactured and 
packaged. And there’s never a germ-collecting chip, crack or 
poorly washed dish. 

• DISPOSE OF IRRITATING NOISE 

Disposable service is silent service. Meals are relaxed without the 
clatter and crash of china or metal. 

ENVIRONMENTAL ADVANTAGES, TOO 

All good campers want to protect the environment. Royal CHINET prod¬ 
ucts are manufactured from a renewable resource. What’s more, they’re 
biodegradable ... molded of natural wood fibres that burn readily with 
little smoke. Even if discarded out-of-doors, Royal CHINET quickly de¬ 
composes in the earth. 

Get the full particulars now. Mail this coupon today. 


CANADIAN KEYES FIBRE COMPANY LTD. 
HANTSPORT, NOVA SCOTIA 

Please provide me with details of the variety and costs of Royal 
CHINET food service products. 


NAME 


COMPANY or CAMP 

ADDRESS _ 

CITY - 



PROV. 












Jocelyn Palm brings a wealth of camping experience 
to the C.C.A./A.C.C., a staff member at Camp Memphre- 
magog, Glen Bernard Camp and the Ontario Camp Leader¬ 
ship Centre in past years; she now owns and directs 
Glen Bernard Camp in Ontario. While President of the 
O.C.A. (1977-1979), Jocelyn was a member of the C.C.A./ 
A.C.C. Board of Directors and she was Managing Director of "Canadian Camping" Magazine 
from 1974 to 1977. Her position as Executive Director of the Royal Life Saving Society 
of Canada brings her in contact with people and organizations across the country who 
share similar concerns and ideals with the C.C.A./A.C.C. 


C.C.A. PRESIDENT 

Jocelyn Palm was installed as the new C.C.A./A.C.C. 
President at the Annual Meeting. This year f s Annual 
Meeting and Spring Board Meeting were held in Moncton, 
New Brunswick, May 21-24 in conjunction with the New 
Brunswick Camping Association Conference. 


Jocelyn will be working with the new Executive to implement the Action Plan adopted 
by the C.C.A./A.C.C. Board last January. Members of the 1981-1983 Executive are: 


Cliff Labbett - Past President 
George Matthews - Eastern Vice President 
Jane McCutcheon - Central Vice President 


Gary Luthy - Western Vice President 
Jan James - Secretary 
George Ross - Treasurer 


Members may contact Jocelyn Palm through the National Office of the C.C.A./A.C.C. 


C RCA. 

The Canadian Recreational Canoeing Asso¬ 
ciation announced that the revision of 
their Standards Manual is now available. 

Prepaid orders should be sent to: C.R.C.A., 
Box 54, Hyde Park, Ontario NOM 1Z0. 

Revised Standards Tests of Achievement in 
Canoeing.including binder. . . . $10.00 



insert 

only. 


7.00 

Checklists: 

50 

@ 

10c 

each 


75 

@ 

9C 

each 


100 

@ 

7C 

each 


250 

@ 

6d 

each 


500 

@ 

5C 

each 

Award Cards: 

Levels 1, 

2,3,4 

,5 each 

5C 

All Standard: 

s, Checklists and 

Awards 

are 

available in 

both French 

and 

English 



Aussi disponible en franqais. 


Canadian camping 

is published 6 times a year 

Subscription Rates 

1 year $ 5.00 
3 years 12.00 

advertising rates on request 

1806 Avenue Road, # 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
(416) 781 4717 



THIS ASSOCIATION GRATEFULLY 
ACKNOWLEDGES THE FINANCIAL SUPPORT OF 

FITNESS AND AMATEUR SPORT CANADA 




RESIDENT CAMPING IN VIE YUKON 


Ted Dinsley is a long-time member of the British Columbia Camping Association. 
Currently, he is the Membership Chairman of B.C.C.A. These are his comments 
from a recent trip to the Yukon where he met with several people active in 
camping. Thanks for the information, Ted I 

"I have just returned from my trip to the Yukon and am 
happy to report to you on the situation in the far north. 

I understood that there was some evidence of a Yukon Camping 
Association several years ago and that C.C.A. records of 
1972, mentioned a Mr. W.A. Farley of Yellowknife, N.W.T. in 
connection with a Territorial Youth Camping Association. 

Both of these are now defunct. 

I talked to Rev. Donald G. Lewis (United Church of Canada) 
of 6108 6th Avenue, Whitehorse, Yukon. Mr. Lewis told of 
an inter-denominational church camp at Braeburn Lake, out¬ 
side of Whitehorse. The camp is thirteeen years old. 

At Marsh Lake,about 20 miles south of Whitehorse, there is 
a resident camp operated by Bethany Tabernacle. The Minister 
is Paster Ted Bonk, 35 Tay Street, Whitehorse. 

Ian Passmore of the Pentacostal Tabernacle at Watson Lake, 
is the name given in connection with a Christian camp in 
that more south-easterly district of the Yukon. Mr. Passmore's 
address is Box 187, Watson Lake, Yukon, YOA ICO. This opera¬ 
tion may be affiliated with the Camp Yukon mentioned above. 

Northern Evangelical Fellowship, with Pastor.Gordon Gauchy of 
Watson Lake is apparently inerested in resident camping, but 
I could not learn of the extent of his present program. 

Rev. D.G. Lewis of Whithorse mentioned that there was a camp 
council made up of representatives of the various denomina¬ 
tions promoting Braeburn Lake Camp. It would appear that 
there is some strength behind this operation, and if there 
was a thought of promoting the organization of a Territorial 
Association in the Yukon, this group might form an appropriate 
starting point. Rev. Lewis seemed to be quite interested in 
the Canadian Camping Association program. 

I could not say that the above camps include all the resident 
camps in the Yukon. There may be several more of which I 
did not learn during my short visit. I would suggest that 
the above list would include one half or two-thirds of the 
resident camps in the Yukon." 


Condensed from Rev. E.J. Dinsley's Letter to Marjorie Booth, C.C.A. Executive 
Director. 


r*s 




r*s 


4 




PUBLICATIONS 

The Canadian Camping Association is happy to announce the publication of several 
new Canadian books which are available from our bookstore and order service. 

The first in the series of C.C.A. "How To" monographs - available in both 
French and English. 

How To Series La Serie Comment Faire 

"How To Promote Your Camp" "Comment promouvir votre camp vacances" 

"Composting for Pleasure and Profit" "Le compostage pour le plaisir et la gain" 

Each monograph is sold for 75c alone or one may purchase both titles in either 
French or English with a C.C.A. three ring binder for $4.00. 

Just off the press! 

When the Wilderness Beckons - A Canoe Tripping Handbook, by Catherine Ross, 

Deborah Hutton and Pamela Dunbar. This concise book contains all one needs to 
know to plan, prepare and enjoy a canoe tripping holiday with family or friends. 
Watch for a complete review of this book in the October issue. 105 pp. $6.95. 

Canoe Routes of Ontario , a definitive guide to more than 100 canoe routes in the 
province, is published by the Ontario Ministry of Natural Resources, Parks and 
Recreation Areas Branch in connection with McClelland and Stewart. Illustrated, 
in both colour and black and white, a large scale map is included. 110 pp. $9.95 


The Nurse and the Health Program at Camp by Mary I. Casey, B.Sc.N. A new, revised 
and expanded edition of her successful manual for camp nursing. 101 pp. $6.50 

Other new books since the C.C.A. Catalogue was published in December 1980 are: 

Camps, Their Planning and Management $ 19.95 (reviewed in April "Canadian Camping "] 
Concise Book of Ropes and Knots 2.95 

Concise Book of Sailing 2.95 

Cookout Manual 3.00 

New American Camping Association publications carried by the C.C.A. are: Raindrops 
Keep Failling on My Tent , a Rainy Day Book, by Joy MacKay - packed with 100s of Great 
Ideas of What to Do in Camp when it Pours..$3.30 and Condensed Camp Standards ...$1.25 

The above prices reflect a price increase on all A.C.A. Publications . Please add 

25c to the listed price of all A.C.A. books under $6.00 and 10% to the price of those 

above $6.00. This raises the price of some of the most popular A.C.A. books as follows: 

Acclimatization .$ 4.75 Ecosketch.$ 5.25 

Acclimatizing . 5.75 Fifty Years of Res. Outdoor Ed.. 16.45 

Basic Camp Management . 8.25 Goodtimes Around the Campfire .. 3.00 

Basic River Canoeing . 3.50 Guide to Canoe Camping . 5.20 

Campcraft Book. 5.20 Sunship Earth . 10.95 


We regret that exchange rates and transportation costs make these increases necessary. 


Other price increases are: 

Campfire Programs with Jack Pearse $5.50 

Camp Program Ideas . 9.00 

Clouds on the Clothesline . 6.75 

Complete How To Book of Ind. Craft. 6.50 

Cooperative Sports and Games . 7.75 

Cows Tails and Cobras . 9.00 

Games for Grown-ups . 5.25 

Handbook of Skits and Stunts . 9.00 

Kinhaven Cookbook. 8.00 

Sing with Jack Pearse . 5.50 


Sing One More Time with Jack Pearse 5.50 

Small Boat Sailor's Bible . 4.50 

Teaching Riding at Summer Camp .... 4.25 

Whittling and Woodcarving . 4.75 

Weaving with Reeds and Fibres . 3.95 

Discontinued Titles : Beyond Competition, 
Eskimo Inuit Games, Save the Earth, Snow 
Sculpture and Ice Carving, Summer Camping, 
a Parent's Guide. 


5 






















WILDERNESS TRAVEL LEADERSHIP COURSE 


by Andrew Sinclair 

Sunny Alberta, land of money and mountains, and 
site of the 1981 National Wilderness Travel Leader¬ 
ship School. When we got off the plane in Calgary 
however, it was pouring rain, and after a two-hour 
drive brought us to Yamnuska Centre, the Calgary 
YMCA’s outdoor recreation headquarters, we had to 
take our host’s word for it that we were here in 
the mountains — fog hid all but the trees around 
us from view. 

The course got off to a fine start, however, as 
the twelve participants from Manitoba, Saskatchewan, Ontario, Quebec, New Brunswick, 
Newfoundland and Nova Scotia introduced one another and took part in a Japanese si¬ 
lent sharing ceremony outdoors in all the rain and snow. 

The major activity the following day was a discovery hike up a nearby mountain, 
during which just about everyone discovered that perhaps their navigation skills 
wern’t quite as sharp as they had thought. A fondue dinner back at the Centre that 
evening, complete with wine, added a nice touch to the day’s activities. 

On the third day, it was finally proved that we were not in fact in Saskatchewan, 
as the fog lifted to reveal the Rockies in all their glory, and we took advantage 
the new found visibility to practice triangulation and other aspects of mountain 
navigation, as well as learning emergency response procedures, planning the next 
day’s hike and discussing the generic leadership model that provided the basis for 
the whole course. 



The weather gods smiled the next day, providing us with a gorgeous blue sky and lots 
of sunshine for our hike up Mount Yamnuska, a mountain about 15 miles from the Cen¬ 
tre. The first part of the climb was fairly easy, although steep, and then it was 
time to put our decision-making skills into action; we could either go around the 
mountain or over it. The latter course was eventually decided upon, and it proved 
to be a fine choice, as the climb up the mountain in the snow and sunshine turned 
out to be an experience that not even our most wobbly-kneed participant would have 
missed for the world. An unexpected amount of snow below the summit prevented us 
from in fact crossing over the mountain, but we reached a summit of our own and it 
was agreed that we had done pretty well for 
a bunch of easterners and prairie types. 

The next day was spent at the Centre where 
we attended more input sessions run by the 
instructors on such subjects as tripping nu¬ 
trition, thermal balance, and menu planning. 

There were also formal one-to-one instructor/ 
participant meetings during which the instruc¬ 
tor received feedback from the participants 
and answered any questions we might have. 





6 



Then it was time to plan and prepare for the four-day hike that 
would allow us to test our new or refreshed skills and concepts 
in a practical situation. 

The actual trip got under way around noon the next day, beginning 
again at the foot of Mount Yamnuska. Rain was threatening but 
sincerely believing that there is no such thing as bad weather, 
only different kinds of good weather, and the experience is not 
what happens but what one does with what happens, we set off de¬ 
termined to have a good time. As had been the case on the two 
previous trips, the instructors played a low-key role, with mem¬ 
bers of the various traveling groups taking turns leading their 
group. After the day’s traveling was over, there were on-to-one 
evaluation sessions with an instructor for the day leaders. 

We all reached our first day’s objectives without undue diffi¬ 
culty and only a refreshing burst of rain. The down-pour that 
night was perhaps less refreshing, but when we were preparing to leave the campsite 
the next morning, it was bright and sunny out, and some group leaders were advocating 
the use of sunscreen. Fifteen minutes later we were standing in a torrential thunder 
shower that went on for some hours. As they say in the mountains, if you want to see 
what the weather’s going to be like, stick around for five minutes. 

Progress that day was pretty good however, although one particular easterner gained 
the dubious title of "bog king" for his rather marshy route shoice. Breaks were 
taken along the way for simulated accidents which gave the group leaders a chance to 
evaluate their own emergency response abilities and to be evaluated by the instuctors. 
It was at about this time that the concept of generic leadership begain to fall into 
place for most of the participants, as they applied it to the situations they encoun¬ 
tered along the way, and thought about it in terms of their own programs. 

On the third day we headed back in the general direction of home, planning to meet 
at a river junction some ways down the valley. Meet we did, but unfortunately, two 
of the groups ended up on one side of the river and one on the other. With the 
steady rain filling the river and melting snow in the mountains, the river was quite 
violent, and we watched the water level rise four inches in twenty minutes to the 
point where whole trees were being washed off the bank and swept downstream, it was 
decided that a crossing was not feasible. However, with one group tossing over the 
ingredients for a blueberry cheesecake and the other group heaving across a container 
of amoretto, and enjoyable evening was has by all. 

The next day, unfortunately, we had to hike out, an exercise that was again accom¬ 
plished without major trauma, and when we were all gathered, at last back at the^ 
foot of Yamnuska, a short sharing ceremony illustrated perfectly the great experi¬ 
ence that the hike had been. 

From that point on, it was pretty much all over but the shouting, as we concentrated 
on evaluation of ourselves and the program, with a final series of one-to-one evalu¬ 
ations, and after a final touch of magic — a picnic in a field — we all, reluctantly 
went our separate ways, 

Andrew Sinclair was a participant in the 1981 C.C.A. National Wilderness Travel 
Leadership School. This is his report to the Camping Association of Nova Scotia 




White Water Canoeing 

SHOULD CAMPS OFFER WHITE WATER CANOEING ? 


The decision one makes regarding what high risk activities and styles he 
adopts for himself are entirely different from those he makes for someone 
else's children under his guardianship. Here are some of the dangers of 
whitewater canoeing and the precautions a Camp Director must take before 
including this activity in the camp program. 

PRECAUTIONS 


At the National School, where some of the best canoeists in the country 
are taught to be instructors, the following precautions are taken: 

1. A day of practice on the lake using specialized strokes that would 
be required in whitewater. 

2. Practice at capsizing and rescue drill in safe, slow moving water. 

3. Proper life jackets and helmets were worn at all times. 

4. Each canoe had the proper long bow and stern painters. 

5. Rescue personnel with throwing lines were positioned along both 
banks and rescue canoes and crews were waiting above and below 
the rapids. 

Camps should not attempt white water instruction with any less than the 
above, but equally important is the need to educate all campers and staff 
as to hydrodynamic principles and the dangers that can be waiting in the 
rapids. It does no good if a camper from a capsized canoe is drifting or 
swimming toward a strainer or souse hole if the guide is the only one who 
knows what a strainer or souse hole is.... 

DANGERS 


All staff and campers on a canoe trip encountering white water (whether 
planning to shoot or not) should be trained to detect and avoid these 
dangers. 

1. Foot-trap 

Foot lodged between rocks by an unwarned novice attempting to 
stand in moving water. These along with strainers are the greatest 
killers. 

2. Strainers 

Stationary man-made or natural obstacles that allow the water but 
not bodies to pass through, i.e. fallen trees. 

3. Souse-hole or backwash 

Back flowing water formed by an obstacle (rock or drop) producing 
continued circular recycling of water and trapped canoes and canoeists. 
The backwash below ledges, near dams, etc. is exceptionally dangerous 
since there is no escape hatch at the ends because they stretch across 
the entire width of the river. 


8 



A submerged canoe, full of water can exert several tons of pressure 
on anyone caught between it and a stationary object, depending on 
the speed of the current. 

5. Drowning due to head wound 

Unaware novices not wearing helmets have drowned by being knocked 
unconscious either by rocks in the river or by other canoes coming 
through the rapids prematurely. 

6. Swollen rivers 

Increased volume and speed of flow can create strainers, undercut 
and fell trees. It may also muddy the water, thereby hiding obstacles. 

7. Hypothermia 

Tipping in the middle of a large ice-cold lake with no rescue is 
more dangerous than going over Niagara Falls. One hasn’t a chance. 

Even on hot days in the spring, the penetrating cold can lead to 
death in a very short time. (Ed. note: Canadian Camping April 1981) 

8. Lightening on the lake 

9. Attempting to rescue people trapped in a backwash 

10. Undercut bank or wave 

11. Surfacing under a log boom 

12. Stuck under a thwart or tangled in line or straps 

13. Falling into rapids from the shore, especially when wearing boots 

14. Whirlpools 

A wild river is like a wild animal - indecipherable unless one knows it and what 
to look for. Something as large as a giraffe or the great blue whale can be 
harmless, whereas something as small as a cobra, black widow spider or piranah 
can be deadly. The largest standing waves in the world (15 - 20 feet high in 
the Ottawa River) could be harmless, while a tiny, one foot dam on the Humber 
River can be a killer, constantly taking lives. As your family pet, with rabies 
becomes amenace, so an unscouted river, even one that has safely carried thou¬ 
sands of canoeists, can change as the result of a rain storm or fallen tree. 

A river alone cannot create a tragedy... but tragedy may await the laughing, 
naive and unaware campers and staff innocently floating along, uneducated and 
unable to detect and avoid the insidious dangers lurking beneath the surface 
or around the next bend. 


Whether or not your camp participates in the exciting sport of white water 
canoeing, I urge you to undertake the training education and precautions out¬ 
lined above for all campers and staff involved in any canoeing program. 

The foregoing is a summary of a session given by Larry Bagnell at an O.C.A. 
Conference. Larry was Director of Algonquin Experience, a program for disad¬ 
vantaged youth conducted by the Toronto YMCA and the Ontario Ministry of Natural 
Resources. 



Experiential Learning 


DISCOVERING NEW HORIZONS 



Discover the dynamic city mosaic of Toronto and the diversity 
in its surrounding countryside. Harbourfront combines natural 
outdoor settings with unique adaptive structures on the 
shores of Lake Ontario. 

EXPERIENCE ’81—COME CELEBRATE WITH US— featuring 
stimulating learning approaches in adventure and outdoor ' 
challenge; environmental and multicultural concerns; the arts 
and cultural journalism; alternative, traditional and community 
school environments; urban studies; special education; 
correctional programs, etc. 

PRE-CONFERENCE, September 27 to 30: Choose from 30 
intensively structured programs across Ontario—canoe in 
Quetico Provincial Park, or discover the mystery behind the 
Group of Seven’s involvement in rugged Canadian wilderness; 
live the pioneer life at Cold Creek; tour the city; experience 
the top of the CN Tower. 

HARBOURFRONT, September 30 to October 3: An innovative 
conference design involving resources from across Canada 
and the U.S.A., in the association’s tradition of direct 
experience, good work, relaxation and celebration: 


Model program presentations 
Skills development workshops 
Art & book exhibits 
Theatre, Dance, Music 


Special interest gatherings 
Dialogue with invited guests 
Film festivals 
Boat trips 


Conference Fees: from $65.00 to $80.00 

ONTARIO TEACHERS’ FEDERATION 
1260 Bay Street, Suite 700 
Toronto, Ontario M5R 2B5 

AEE Conference, Harbourfront, Toronto, Canada, Sept. 27-Oct. 3, 1981 
NAME 



ADDRESS 


HOME PHONE 


(area code) 


SCHOOL/WORK PHONE 


' n ostal code) 




















A Dream Come True 


On March 4, 1981 - the year of the handi¬ 
capped, a group left Winnipeg airport, on 
a Boeing 747 for Florida to make a dream 
come true for five mentally handicapped. 

Terry and Sandy Burkhalter and their four 
young children with two volunteer chape¬ 
rones undertook to spend a week together 
with their five charges to experience the 
joys of a vacation in Florida. Terry is 
Executive Director of "Camps with Meaning" 
for the Conference of Mennonites in Mani¬ 
toba and President of the Manitoba Camp¬ 
ing Association. 

There was Evelyn, age 71, sweet, appreci¬ 
ative, uncomplaining, who prayed out loud 
in a childlike fashion for each of us 
every night. 

Esther, age 66, who was all prepared to 
have a good time, loved teasing and being 
teased. She was frightened of escalators 
and the whole airport heard her just pri¬ 
or to going on one. 

Connie, who was deaf, age 22, managed to 
be happy most of the time. She was ecsta¬ 
tic when she could play in the water. 

"Stormin Norman", our energetic hungry 
teenager, loved everybody. His excite¬ 
ment and joy was infectious. 

Helen, a waitress, age 43, immaculate, or¬ 
ganized, independent, was a great help 
keeping the group together, and helping 
when there was a difficulty. 

Disneyworld proved to be a fantasy-filled 
day. The group was delighted by fairies, 
ghosts and pirates. At "Wet and Wild", 
some sat and watched while Stormin Norman 
and the children zipped 
down the giant slides 
having a marvelous 



I 

■&3k 



Other highlights included meeting Don 
Jonas, former quarterback for the Win¬ 
nipeg Blue Bombers, a walk along the 
ocean, shopping,, swimming at the hotel 
pools, fishing and a visit with Winni¬ 
peg friends, Walter and Eleanor Loewen. 

We became a family of 13, ages 4 to 71, 
white,brown and red from too much sun. 
People in restaurants knew when we ar¬ 
rived, an obvious lively group, noisy, 
exuberant and hungry. We were treated 
with genuine hospitality and courtesy. 

It was such an action-packed trip that 
we were all weary and ready to go home 
at the end of the week. Evelyn missed 
her dolls and the people at home. 

Esther was tired and missed home. Con¬ 
nie was ready to go home for a good rest 
Helen had enjoyed the change from her 
waitressing job, but Norman was ready 
to stay another six months. 

We believe that they came home with many 
good memories that they will keep for¬ 
ever. We, the chaperones (Terry, Sandy, 
Julie and myself) had experienced the 
love and trust that the mentally handi¬ 
capped give so freely. We were reminded 
again of the dignity and worth of each 
human being. We gave of ourselves and 
received much in return. It was a dream 
come true. 1 


This article was contributed by Miss 
Ingrid Froese, University student and 
member of the Charleswood Mennonite 
Church and a member of the group. 


i 

■4 ‘ 

7 




Pi XI - 


11 




SUPPORT AMATEUR 

Canadian camping association 
association dcs camps du Canada 

SUITE 2. 1806 AVENUE ROAD 
TORONTO. ONTARIO M5M 3Z1 



1822 

MISS MARION BABCOCK 
215 - 25 LORNE AVE. 
NEWMARKET ON 

ISSN 008-3119 L3Y 5N8 


legend of the white canoe 


In the days of old, long before the deep solitudes of the West were disturbed 
by the white men, it was the custom of the Indian warrior of the forest to 
assemble at the Great Cataract and offer a human sacrifce to the Spirit of the 

Falls. The offering consisted of a white canoe full of ripe fruits and bloo¬ 

ming flowers, which was paddled over the terrible cliff by the fairest girl 
of the tribe who had just arrived at the age of womanhood. 

It was counted an honour by the tribe to whose lot it fell to make the costly 
sacrifice and even the doomed maiden deemed it a high compliment to be selec¬ 
ted to guide the white canoe over the falls. The only daughter of a chief of 
Seneca Indians was chosen as a sacrificial offering to the Spirit of Niagara. 

The young girl calmly steered her tiny bark toward the centre of the stream, 
while frantic yells and shouts arose frcm the forest. Suddenly another white 
canoe shot forth upon the stream, and, under the powerful iitpulse of the Sene¬ 
ca chief, flew like an arrow to destruction. It overtook the first; the eyes 

of the father and daughter met in one last gaze of love, and then they plun¬ 
ged together over the thundering cataract into eternity. 








