


■ 












































































































































Letters to the Editor 


Dear Canadian Camping: 

I am writing you regarding the Spring 1982 
Issue of “Canadian Camping”. On the whole 
I felt that the magazine contained good 
promotion for a very worthwhile and 
meaningful endeavour - namely camping. 
However, there is one item which I feel 
should never have appeared in your 
magazine. It was a photo of two girls 
walking with their arms around one another, 
marked “Courtesy of Camp Gay Venture.” 

It disturbs me that a magazine of this 
caliber would give homosexuality this kind 
of exposure. To add to the irony of it all, we 
have in the next column, a tremendous 
poem entitled “One Solitary Life”, which 
speaks of Jesus Christ who died to bring 
forgiveness and pardon and power to live a 
transformed life; a message every 
homosexual needs to know and come to 
grips with. 

As guardians of the youth of Canada (and 
certainly as camp workers, directors, 
counsellors and instructors) we do assume 
a share of this responsibility for guiding 
and influencing young lives. . .thus we 
must review our stand for morality in 
lifestyle. The foundation of today’s camping 
experience was piloted by men and women 
of high moral fabric (eg: Young Men’s 
Christian Association) and we can give no 
less to our generation. 

Darrel Hoeppner 
Edmonton, Alta. 

Thank you for your comments with regard 
to the Spring Issue of Canadian Camping; 

Tm glad you enjoyed the poem “One 
Solitary Life”. 

Tm very concerned however, about your 
perceptions with regard to our photograph 
as well as your underlying assumptions 
about homosexuality. 


Firstly, about Camp Gay Venture: this camp 
has long been one of Canada’s premiere 
girls' camps for over 30 years. It is a camp 
with impeccable standards and a sterling 
reputation in the field of camping today; 
with Directors Hoyle, Patterson and 
currently Adamson, Gay Venture is steeped 
in tradition, value and excellence of both 
program and leadership. I know because my 
sister went there and I personally have 
spent 23 summers in neighbouring camps 
where I’ve enjoyed fellowship, songs, plays, 
campfires, dances and leadership 
exchanges with Gay Venture. 

“Gay” means “light and fun” and Gay 
Venture was the name of a horse back in 
the 1940’s which prompted the camp name. 
The current association of the word “gay” 
with homosexuality has obviously caused 
some concern to those associated with Gay 
Venture; I think at one time they contem¬ 
plated a name change BUT I think they 
realized that Gay Venture and its camping 
tradition will prevail long after the word 
“gay” ceases its co-existence with 
homosexuality. 

More importantly, with regard to 
homosexuality, I think we should realize 
that approximately one person in ten is 
homosexual; whether it's good or bad is not 
the point - it’s just a fact of life. There is 
obviously a sizeable number of campers 
and staff in ALL our camps who must deal 
with this reality; to make them feel unduly 
shameful, anxious or guilty seems very 
wrong as well as in opposition to the creed 
“Love thy neighbour as thyself”. The current 
opinion of human sexuality (medical, 
psychological, sociological) indicates that 
teenagers do not “choose” a sexual orienta¬ 
tion; adolescence seems to be a time of 
revelation and not a turning point! Dr. John 
Money of John Hopkins University says that 
we’re all born sexual; how we learn to 


manifest that sexuality as we grow up is 
largely multifactoral - that is, genetics, 
hormones, cultural rearing are all significant 
with the nod going to cultural rearing. 

I attended a conference a few months back 
with famed researcher Dr. William Masters, 
who revealed the following: “As of 1982, it is 
the belief of the Masters and Johnson 
Institute that homosexuality is a natural 
form of sexual expression; it is also our 
opinion that homosexuality is primarily 
LEARNED BEHAVIOUR.” His final fact was 
most turbulent: “It is believed that hetero¬ 
sexuality is learned behaviour; that is, it 
must be programmed.” Research is begin¬ 
ning to illuminate this basic thesis that 
we’re all born with sexual energy - this 
energy can be channelled in countless ways 
(bisexuality, heterosexuality, homosexuality), 
as well as denied (asexuality). I think it is 
important in camps that we emphasize 
“respect” and “responsibility”; our bodies 
are healthy and can be sources of great 
pleasure. We must learn to interact with 
others socially and sexually by first 
acknowledging our feelings and then 
manifesting our behaviour with honesty, 
courtesy, dignity and respect. 

Your letter talks of the camping movement 
“piloted by men and women of high moral 
fabric”. I assume you mean heterosexual, 
but Tm not sure; you see, one’s sexual 
orientation (homosexual, bisexual, hetero¬ 
sexual or asexual) has little to do with 
morality. There are surgeons, presidents, 
lawyers, camp directors, etc. who are 
homosexual AND are of high moral fabric. 
There are heterosexuals who are immoral, 
i.e. abuse others, lie, cheat, dominate, seek 
indiscriminate sex etc. It seems the 
question we should address to young 
people is: manifest your interpersonal 
relationships with honesty, communication, 
openness and caring - and all this is 
irrespective of one’s “orientation”! 


CONTENTS 


Autumn 1982 


— —- 

Vol. 34, No. 3 

5 The Camping Advisor 
by Jay Haddad 

11 

Winning Photograph 
by Janice De Long 


6 Interview: John Latimer 
by Jay Haddad 

12 

Group Dynamics Exercise 
by Jay Haddad 


9 Pre-Congress Events 
by Marilee Tisdall 

13 

New Brunswick Counsellor Workshop 
by Ian Fowler 


10 President’s Perspective 
by Jocelyn Palm 

14 

Saskatchewan Spring Conference 



Cover Photo: Jay Haddad 


This Association gratefully acknowledges 
the financial support of 



Government of Canada Gouvernement du Canada 
Fitness and Amateur Sport Condition physique et Sport amateur 


Printed by/lmprim6 par 

National Sport and Recreation Centre. Inc. 
Centre National du Sport et de la Recreation 
Ottawa. Canada 


2 









































EDITORIAL 

Beer in the Ballparks - Camps are Next! 


A dangerous phenomenon is occurring in camps al I across the country. 
Industrious, sensible, committed staff members, who care for our 
campers all week long with enormous responsibility, become drunken, 
reckless, irresponsible, immature “adolescents” on their days off. At 
the very least, we witness embarrassing and inappropriate behaviours 
from sign-stealing to vomiting uncontrollably on the main street in the 
middle of town; at its worst, we witness violent automobile accidents 
causing severe bodily injury and even death! It’s time to become realis¬ 
tic in our assessment of this apparent paradox which creates Jeckyll 
and Hyde characters of our staff members. 

A camp counsellor's job is a highly stressful one - it is virtually 24 
hours of non-stop, uninterrupted responsibility. From the early wake-up 
bell in the morning, it is the counsellor's duty to have all the campers 
washed and ready for breakfast, back to the trough to brush the teeth, 
off to activity periods, keep control over the noon meal, supervise the 
campers’ rest period, on to activities all afternoon, wash for supper¬ 
time, plan an evening challenge or campfire programme, wash and 
ready for bed, read a story or chat and reminisce a little about the day, 
then lights out: whew!! And all this assuming no discipline problems 
arise throughout the day or a camper gets sick in the middle of the night 
and the counsellor sits with him/her for an hour or two in the infirmary. 
It’s a pressure-cooker of a job but we don’t always admit it! The staff 
need to relax and blow off steam, and yet most camps have a “NO 
DRINKING IN CAMP” policy. It’s like the Ontario Government’s policy of 
“no beer in the ballparks” which never did stop people from drinking but 
it did stop stadium officials from effectively controlling it. And now that 
the government ban is lifted, everyone is amazed that 99% of the fans 
leave the stadium as orderly as they arrived; they needn’t be amazed as 
the behaviour was as predictable as it is now obvious! The 1 % who are 
unruly now were unruly before, only now they throw empty plastic beer 
cups whereas previously they threw empty micky bottles. 

The irony and contradiction in our camps is obvious; we entrust a 19 
or 20 year-old counsellor with human life - the health, safety, care and 
growth of all their campers (more vital responsibility, I might add, than 
most 40 or 50 year-olds have with their city occupations). On a canoe 
trip, the leader’s responsibility is magnified tenfold and yet these same 
“adults” are reduced to mere chi Idren themselves because we refuse to 
believe they could responsibly have a beer in camp (if they so desired) at 
the end of a day, blow off a little steam, relax and socialize. 

As a camp director, I would hope I could teach campers and staff 
alike about the responsible use of alcohol and help foster an ethic of 
respect for its positive and negative effects; I would want my campers 
and staff to understand alcohol’s uses and abuses, as opposed to an 
unrealistic hope or belief in abstinence. Also, as a camp director, I 
would feel much better dealing with a fire or emergency situation in the 
middle of the night knowing several staff members had had a beer or 


two at 10:00 or 11:00 pm and retired in a safe, reasonable and alert man¬ 
ner rather than having to waken a group of non-functional, semi- 
comatose impaired staff who rolled into camp at 1:30 or 2:00 am after 
the bars closed. My conscience wouldn’t be salved in the least knowing 
that “at least they didn’t get drunk on camp premises”. Which makes 
sense? 

Perhaps my perspective is prejudiced because I’ve worked in a “no 
drinking policy” camp and witnessed the frightening abuses as well as 
auto accidents and “near-misses”; every night was like sitting on a 
powder keg hoping the staff wouldn’t overdo it and praying that they’d 
return to camp in one piece. I’ve also worked in a camp where alcohol 
was available to the staff on a 24 hour basis in a designated staff cabin; 
amazingly, it was extremely rare that anyone would have a drink before 
the conclusion of evening programme, and several “unwritten” rules 
evolved: no one drank to excess, drinking was usually limited to beer or 
wine, drinking seemed to be regulated to a couple of times a week - just 
because it was there was no reason to indulge. Two extremely positive 
corollaries did emerge: 

1) Staff rarely went out of camp, even on time off; the effect was 
a wonderful sense of cohesion which could only affect the 
camp in a positive ripple effect. 

2) The campers were exposed to role models who actually drank 
AND walked a straight line. If we had a beer at 10:00 pm, then 
wandered through camp to check for noise and chat with the 
campers, they invariably knew we had alcohol on our breath. 
This serves as a positive vicarious learning situation; i.e. one 
can drink, in moderation, and be perfectly functional. 

While no simple answer exists as to how each individual camp 
should handle/prohibit/regulate alcohol use amongst its staff, I think 
we should accept the reality that our staff, being human, will drink in 
front of us OR behind our backs. We should begin a “dialogue on drink¬ 
ing” with them in order to discern what is best for our camp, our staff 
and what rules, policies and expectations seem most reasonable and 
appropriate. Many camp directors have committees comprised of staff 
members, parents, senior staff and the director to discuss many of 
these areas and this seems to work reasonably well. 

In a society that is becoming increasingly intolerant of the drunk 
driver - and rightfully so - our camps should not duck the issue and 
leave it to luck or fate that our staff will return from time off and in what 
condition. The ethics of “RESPECT and RESPONSIBILITY” are crucial 
ones to impart by both words and example. Our purpose shouldn’t be 
clouded by archaic and paradoxical rules and fears which will prove to 
be unfounded - staff ARE responsible; they’ve shown it in every other 
camp leadership sphere, but we’ll only know they can responsibly 
handle alcohol and impart a valuable lesson to our campers when we’re 
willing to trust them, as adults, all the way! 


Editorial Policy 

Jay Haddad, Editor 

The ideas expressed in the Editorial are 
those of the Editorial Committee and not 
necessarily those of the Canadian Camp¬ 
ing Association/Association des Camps 
du Canada. The views are expressed to 
provide stimulation and comment. We in¬ 
vite you to respond in “Letters to the 
Editor” to Canadian Camping, 1806 
Avenue Road, Suite 2, Toronto, Ontario 
M5M 321. 


Editorial Office is located at the CCA/ACC 
Office, 1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, Toronto, 
Ontario M5M 3Z1. 


Canadian Camping is an official publication of the Canadian Camping Association/Association des 
Camps du Canada. Canadian Camping (ISSN 008-3119) is published quarterly. CCA/ACC member¬ 
ship includes a subscription; non-member subscriptions in Canada $6.00 a year or $15.00 - 3 years. 
Send address changes to CCA/ACC, 1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1. 
Material in Canadian Camping may not be reproduced in any form, without written permission of the 
editor. Copyright 1982 Canadian Camping Association/Association des Camps du Canada. 


3 



EDITORIAL 

On permet bien la bicre 
aax stadas da baseball - 

Un vent plutot malsain souffle pr£sentement sur nos camps partout au 
pays. Des moniteurs senses, d£vou£s, travallleurs, dotes d’un haut 
sens des responsabilites et soucieux du bien-£tre des campeurs toute 
la semaine devlennent de vrais soulards et se comportent comme des 
jouvenceaux insconscients a leurs jours de conge. Au mieux, nous 
sommes t£moins d’actes grosslers et genants tels le vol de panneaux- 
r£clame et le “d£bogillage” le long des rues passantes. Au pire, nous 
assistons £ des accidents de la circulation qui laissent les victimes 
gravement bless6es, parfois sans vie. II est temps que nous examinions 
en toute objectivity ce veritable paradoxe. 

Le moniteur a des responsabilites qui le retiennent au boulot presque 
24 h sur 24. C’est un travail crevant. Au premier son de cloche, il est £ 
son poste. C’est la toilette des enfants, le petit dejeuner, le brossage 
des dents, les activit£s du matin. C’est ensuite le diner, la periode de 
repos, les activity de l’apr£s-midi, encore un brin de toilette, le souper, 
les jeux ou le feu de camps le soir. C’est enfin un dernier debarbouillage, 
les histoires ou la retrospective des activity de la journ£e. Ouf! On 
eteint les lumi£res. Encore l£, faut*il supposer qu’il n’y a pas eu de man¬ 
que £ la discipline durant le jour ou qu’aucun n'a retenu le moniteur 1 h 
ou 2 £ son chevet la nuit. C’est un travail de fou bien que nous ne 
I’admettions pas toujours. 

Le personnel a besoin de detente. Or la plupart des camps DEFEN- 
DENT L’ALCOOL. Nous pourrions faire le rapprochement entre ce regie- 
ment et celui du gouvernement de I’Ontario qui interdissait il y a peu de 
temps la biere dans les stades de baseball. Qa n’a pas emp£che les 
gens de boire. Par contre, cela a donne des maux de tete aux respon- 
sables des stades qui n’avaient aucun contrdle. Maintenant que (’inter¬ 
diction est levee, le monde s’etonne de voir que 99% des gens quittent 
le stade dans le m£me ordre qu’ils y sont entr£s. I Is n’ont pas £ s’£bahir. 
C’etait £ predire. Le 1% de gens turbulents l'£tait avant. La difference, 
c’est que ceux-ci jettent leurs verres de bi£re vides au lieu de leurs 
bouteiltes miniatures. 

II y a ironie et contradiction dans nos camps. Nous confions £ des 
adultes de 19 et 20 ans, des humains comme nous, le soin de veiller £ la 
sante, £ la security et au bien-£tre des plus jeunes (des responsabilites 
dois-je dire plus lourdes que celles qu’assument leurs ain£s en ville). 
Lors d’un voyage en canot, les responsabilites du moniteur sont ampli¬ 
fies de 10 fois. Et encore, on les traite comme des enfants; on ne peut 
croire qu’ils sont assez grands pour prendre une bi£re au camp (s’ils le 
veulent) pour se recr£er. 

A titre de directeur de camp, j’aimerais pouvoir enseigner aux 
campeurs et au personnel comment faire usage modere de I’alcool. 
J’aimerais les aider £ porter un jugement d’appr£ciation sur ses effets 
positifs et negatifs. J’aimerais qu’ils distinguent Tabus de la modera¬ 
tion au lieu de les inciter £ esp£rer ou £ croire absurd£ment en I’absti- 


Pourquoi pas aax camps! 

nence. En cas d’incendie, ou d’urgence la nuit qu’aimeriez-vous mieux 
savoir: que vos moniteurs se soient retires sagement au lit en posses¬ 
sion de toutes leurs facultes apr£s avoir bu une bi£re ou deux au camps 
ou qu’ils se soient couches dans un etat de semi-coma apr£s avoir 
ferm6 les bars? Quelle est la meilleur situation? 

Peut-etre pensez-vous que j’ai des prejug£s parce que j’ai travailie 
dans un camp ou I’alcool 6tait d£fendu et que j’ai £t£ temoin d’abus ter- 
ribles et d’accidents ou les victimes “I'ont echapp£ belle”. Chaque soir, 
c’etait comme s’asseoir sur un baril de poudre et esp£rer que les gars ne 
se griseraient pas trop, ou du moins qu’ils reviendraient tout d’une 
piece. Croyez-moi. J’ai aussi travailie dans un camp ou Ton pouvait 
boire £ toute heure dans une salle r£serv£e au personnel. Chose 
curieuse, rares etaient ceux qui prenaient un verre avant la fin de la 
journ£e et souvent meme avant d’avoir jongie £ certaines normes 
”in£crite”. On buvait tout au plus une ou deux fois la semaine et, jamais 
£ l’exc£s. C’etait haibtuellement du vin ou de la bi£re. 

La boisson etait l£ mais ce n’etait pas une raison de se laisser aller. II 
s’est degage deux corollaires: 

1. Le personnel est rarement sortit du camps, meme en conge, ce qui a 

cree une unite dont les effets se sont repercutes sur tout le camp. 

2. Les campeurs ont ete exposes £ des chefs exemplaires qui buvaient 

et marchaient en ligne droite. 

Si nous prenions une bi£re avant d’aller faire la ronde et que nous 
arretions jaser avec les jeunes, ils savient que nous avions bu rien qu’£ 
sentir notre haleine. Ils venaient d’apprendre quelque chose: que Ton 
pouvait boire mod£r£ment et fonctionner parfaitement. II n’est pas 
facile £ chaque camp d’£tablir s’il faut permettre ou d£fendre I’usage de 
Palcool. Cependant, je crois que nous devons accepter le fait que les 
moniteurs boiront devent nou OU derri£re nous. Ce sont des humains. 
Nous devrions dialoguer avec eux afin d’etablirce qui est preferable de 
faire. Voir quels r£glements et attentes seraient valables. Nombre de 
directeurs de camps ont forme des comites ou membres du personnel £ 
tous les niveaux et parents se r£unissent pour discuter de ces choses. 
Tout semble bien marcher. 

Notre society tol£re de moins en moins I’ivresse au volant et avec 
raison. Nos camps ne devraient pas user de faux-fuyants et laisser £ la 
chance ou £ la fatality de voir son personnel revenir ou pas le soir et... 
dans quel etat. II importede leurcommuniquerengestes et enn paroles 
notre RESPECT pour eux et leur SENS DU DEVOIR. Nous ne devrions 
pas etre obnubiies par des r£glements archaiques et paradoxaux ni par 
des craintes sans fondements. Notre personnel EST responsable. III'a 
prouve dans toutes les autres spheres de leadership. Nous ne aurons 
seulement que nos moniteurs peuvent boire et donner une legon 
valable aux campeurs quand nous pourrons leur faire confiance £ tout 
point de vue comme £ des adultes! 


CAMP AQUATICS PROGRAM WORKSHOP 

November 11-14,1982 
Holiday Inn on the Lane, Columbus, Ohio 
(in conjunction with CNCA National Aquatics Conference) 
Sessions Include: 

Liability & Risk Management in Camp Aquatics - Dr. Betty van der Smissen 
Camp Aquatic Standards - Panel 

Role of Lifeguarding vs Lifesaving in Camp Aquatics Personnel - Jim Langridge 
Waterfront Management - Stormy Webster, B.R. Ryall 
Training of Aquatics Staff & Entire Camp Staff in Aquatics - Jocelyn Palm 
Aquatics Equipment Management - Bea Pyle, Brenda Blessing 

Conference Fee: CNCA Member $65.00 Other $75.00 


Registration: 

C.N.C.A. Conference 
Box 21057 

Columbus, Ohio 43221 

Further Information: 

Louise Priest (703-361-3288) 

CNCA Headquarters 

Box 1574, Manassas, VA. 22110 



THE CAMPIHG ADVISOR 


Our camp has budgeted for six new canoes 
next year; our canoe tripping consists mainly 
of lake travel in Ontario, with a little bit of river 
travel. What is the ideal make and length for 
us to purchase? 

C.T., Haliburton, Ontario 

There are advantages and disadvantages to 
all canoe makes; in Lightweight Camping by 
Michael Hatton, he reviews the following 
canoes with their advantages and disadvan¬ 
tages: Wood and Canvas (16 feet, app. 75 lb.) 
are quiet, good performers and high aesthe¬ 
tic value but allergic to rocks, can become 
waterlogged and high maintenance; Alumi¬ 
num (17 feet, app. 75 lb.) are very strong but 
noisy, conducts cold temperatures, not as 
high a performer as Wood and Canvas; Fiber¬ 
glass (16 feet, app. 65 lb.) are light, easy to 
repair and inexpensive but not as strong as 
aluminum; Kevlar-49 (16 feet, app. 48 lb.) have 
high tear resistance, very light but very ex¬ 
pensive; Royalex (16 feet, app. 75 lb.) are very 
strong but will deform under high stress and 
have poor hull designs. Hatton says that 
“long canoes are generally more stable, have 
a greater carrying capacity, will be faster with 
two or more paddlers, stay on course better 
and draw less water than short canoes ... it 
is advantageous to choose the longest canoe 
suitable to the specific needs. Few serious 
canoeists would purchase a hull less than 16 
feet in length, and in fact, there is a growing 
move to 17 and 18 foot models“. 

We suggest you determine your specific 
needs and begin shopping around; don’t 
make a hasty decision as you have all year to 
make your purchase. Ask other camp direc¬ 
tors who canop in your area what canoes they 
have purchased and where; word of mouth in 
this case is more important than a 
salesman’s pitch! 

(Incidentally: Lightweight Camping is avail¬ 
able from your C.C.A. Publications Service 
for $8.95 and is an excellent resource.) 

Several staff at our camp jogged every morn¬ 
ing before breakfast; I wanted to jog also but 
it seems these guys are really into pain - they 
go a minimum 5 or 6 miles and sometimes 
they jog 10 miles! I’ve heard that running 
cures depression, is this true and what is the 
maximum distance to jog for optimum fit¬ 
ness? 

D.C., Montreal, Quebec 


Running has been proven to help depression; 
researchers at the University of Wisconsin 
placed a group of depressed patients on a 
running-therapy programme. The group ran 
three times a week for 30-45 minutes each 
session; the symptoms of depression were 
definitely alleviated. 

As to how far you should run, it sounds like 
your friends are serious runners, far too 
serious! Consider: researchers at the Univer¬ 
sity of California at Berkeley determined that 
maximum fitness, measured by oxygen up¬ 
take, could be obtained by running 12 min¬ 
utes a day three times a week. Doubling the 
running time did not increase cardiorespira¬ 
tory fitness; however, it did burn off excess 
calories. It seems there’s little to do for opti¬ 
mal fitness - the trick is in keeping it up on a 
steady basis. Remember, though, a good 
warm-up and warm-down are essential. Good 
luck! 


We have a photography program in our camp; 
our instructor said that our film should 
always be refrigerated, although she didn’t 
know why. Can you find out? 

W.N., Huntsville, Ontario 

It seems that heat and humidity cause the 
chemical composition of the film to deteri¬ 
orate. Most colour films are chemically im¬ 
mature when purchased; that is, they have 
not yet reached their optimum colour 
balance. Refrigeration retards the chemical 
maturation process, thereby protecting it and 
giving it a longer life. 

Last summer, our camp director (female) 
became involved with one of the female coun¬ 
sellors. It created quite a stir and there was a 
lot of gossip in camp; the counsellor actually 
admitted to having an affair with the camp 
director. The government board refused to re¬ 
hire the director, even though she was an ex¬ 
cellent camp director in all ways. Many of us 
feel that she was discriminated against be¬ 
cause she is lesbian. Is that fair? 

Name and city witheld by request 

It sounds as though your camp director was 
not re-hired because she showed very poor 
judgement, poor professional conduct and 
exhibited indiscreet behaviour. The question 
is not one of homosexuality - it is a question 
of BEHAVIOUR unbecoming of a camp direc¬ 
tor! It would have been equally wrong if the 


camp director was male and the affair was 
with a female staff member or if the camp 
director was female and the involvement was 
with a male staff member. Some camp direc¬ 
tors are homosexual, many are heterosexual, 
perhaps some are even asexual; it doesn’t 
matter and it shouldn’t matter. The point is, 
one’s sexuality should be private and per¬ 
sonal, especially in a highly charged social 
environment like a camp situation. Your camp 
director was not guilty of her sexual orienta¬ 
tion, but rather of her unwise and untimely ex¬ 
pression of it! 

Please settle an argument that several of us 
staff had with our camp nurse. When a bad 
ankle sprain was taken to her, she soaked the 
ankle in hot salt water whereas we maintain¬ 
ed a cold compress should have been ap¬ 
plied. Who was correct? 

B.B., Vancouver, B.C. 

You were correct! An excellent source is “The 
Sportsmedicine Book” by Gabe Mirkin and 
Marshall Hoffman. They suggest the immedi¬ 
ate treatment for almost all athletic injuries is 
the same no matter what happens - ankle 
sprain, broken bone, ligament strain, muscle 
pull. It’s called RICE - Rest, Ice, Compression 
and Elevation. As soon as one feels pain, 
stop the activity immediately and pack the in¬ 
jured area in ice (not directly, always use a 
towel so the ice doesn’t touch the skin), wrap 
a bandage around the ice and elevate the in¬ 
jured limb above the level of the heart. This 
stops the blood from entering the injured 
area; the more blood that collects, the longer 
it takes to heal. Ice can be reapplied for 
several hours - 30 minutes on and 15 minutes 
off. If pain and swelling does increase, see a 
physician. Most experts do not resort to heat 
treatments for at least 48 hours, if at all. Ice 
can also help to rehabilitate injuries; if you’re 
trying to restore movement to an injured 
joint, massage the area with ice, stretch it 
with appropriate exercises, then reapply the 
ice. The cold serves as an anaesthetic and, 
again, reduces swelling. 

Thank you for your letters. We regret that we 
cannot answer each one personally; however, 
we will endeavour to publish the most inter¬ 
esting and provocative ones. Address all let¬ 
ters to: The Camping Advisor, c/o The Editor, 
Canadian Camping, 1806 Avenue Road, Suite 
2, Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1. 







INTERVIEW 

John Latimer is known in virtually all camp¬ 
ing circles of Canada and the United States. 
He has served the Ontario Camping Associa¬ 
tion as well as the Canadian Camping 
Association as President. He is the owner of 
Kilcoo Camp in Ontario and directed Kilcoo 
for 26 years before retiring last year as active 
Director. He is currently the Chairperson of 
the International Camping Congress to be 
held in Toronto, January 26 to 29, 1983. In his 
first summer in the city since 1938, he was in¬ 
terviewed on August 4, 1982 by Jay Haddad at 
his home in Toronto. The following are ex¬ 
cerpts from that interview: 

C.C.A. John, let’s start with the International 
Camping Congress; how was the idea first 
conceived and how has it evolved to its cur¬ 
rent status? 

J.L.:The idea of an International Congress 
started several years ago when I was Presi¬ 
dent of the C.C.A. and I was down in New York 
City at an A.C.A. meeting. John Kirk was their 
President and a man by the name of Com¬ 
mander Kohli from India was President of the 
Indian Camping Association. We went out 
one evening and began to fantasize a little 
about the possibility of a World Association 
in Camping. With that little dream the idea 
always stayed with me, then it was at the 
Geneva Park Conferences, when I saw what 
was happening when Camp Directors got 
together from across the country - it wasn’t 
just the sessions - it was the sharing and 
camaraderie of every Province and every type 
of camp represented that made the experi¬ 
ence so exciting. My fantasy then, which is 
now becoming a reality, was to bring camp¬ 
ing people together from all over the world to 
share and grow and realize that we’re all part 
of something very big and very special: the 
growth of children in the out-of-doors. 

C.C.A.: Who did you talk to first? 

J.L.: First, we talked to the Americans about 
a joint congress, but unfortunately, that 
didn’t work out because the financial restric¬ 
tions presented too many complications. 
We’re still on great terms, but we decided we 
could and would go it alone. 

I turned to Past Presidents of the C.C.A. for 
direction - Cliff Labbett, Jack Pearse, Ron 
Johnstone and the current President, Jocelyn 
Palm - about the possibilities for this ex¬ 
citing venture; then we looked to the people 
of the Ontario Camping Association who 
would be acting as hosts for the Congress. 
The Board of the C.C.A. set up a task force 
and said "go” and for the past two years 
we’ve been going! 

C.C.A.: What excited you most about the 
Congress? 

J.L.: I think the feeling I’m starting to get - 
and remember this is just August - around 
the country that there’s tremendous support 
for this venture and people really are plan- 



Photo Courtesy Kilcoo Camp 


ning to get here for the Congress. There’s a 
sense of excitement that this unique "hap¬ 
pening” in camping is one in which they’re 
anxious to be a part of; mind you, Christian 
Camping International have had interna¬ 
tional ventures before but this is really the 
first sponsored by the C.C.A. I’m getting a 
feeling that people are starting to buzz with 
anticipation of the Congress approaching at 
the end of January. 

C.C.A.: Who are some of the key people you 
are excited about bringing in internationally? 

J.L.: One man that I’m looking forward to 
hearing is Sir Edmond Hillary; I met with him 
for lunch a few weeks ago and found him to 
be a fascinating man, a very human person, a 
very dedicated person to young people and to 
hear some of the experiences he’s anxious to 
share with us is really quite exciting. 

I’m particualarly pleased that Leo 
Buscaglia will be with us - I’ve watched his 
tapes, read his books, I’ve used some of his 
tapes in my own camp - he’s fun, sensitive, 
emotional, a dynamic speaker as you well 
know. It’s also reassuring to see his current 
book “Living, Loving and Learning” sit atop 
the New York Times and Time magazine best¬ 
seller list - it simply adds to his stature to see 
such impressive credentials and think he’s 
going to wind up our Congress beautifully. If 
people don’t walk away two feet off the 
ground, I’ll be very surprised! 

C.C.A.: Is it also true that Sharon, Lois and 
Bram will be singing? 

J.L.: Yes, they’ll be at a breakfast meeting 
sponsored by the Government of Ontario on 
the Thursday morning; also appearing will be 
David Broadfoot, so it should be a good com¬ 
bination of Canadian music and humour. I’m 
impressed with the talent, I’m impressed with 
our organizing committee and the enthu¬ 
siasm they have generated in camping com¬ 


munities, literally throughout the world. 

I know it’s going to be an event which will 
be highly informative, entertaining and in¬ 
spiring - one which all of Canada will be 
proud to host. 

C.C.A.: Let’s turn to your first summer in the 
city in 44 years - how does it feel? 

J.L.: I feel a sense of relief of not having to 
worry about so many mechanical duties - 
like trucks breaking down, needing supplies 
for crafts, the dining hall is dirty etc. I do miss 
the interaction with the kids, playing tennis 
with campers, chatting with a friend at 
Chapel Point. 

I have been up to camp several times and I 
am reminded of how much I miss the ongoing 
affection and recognition with the campers - 
but being up there for 44 years has left me 
with so many cherished memories and they 
have made me feel very good about life, but 
yes, I do miss the closeness with the Staff, I 
miss the campers, and, of course, I miss the 
opportunity to pull a few pranks. 

C.C.A.: Is it true that your first arrival back to 
Kilcoo in early July last month was initiated 
as a prank and that as the entire camp stood 
in a horseshoe for flag raising at 8:00 a.m., 
the Canadian flag draped over the main flag 
bearer rose and unfurled only to find you 
underneath, much to the amazement and 
delight of about 300 Kilcoo campers and 
staff? 

J.L.: Yes, that’s a true scenario, and I giggled 
all the way up to camp from Toronto thinking 
about it - I couldn’t wait! 

C.C.A.: When did the campers realize it was 
their "Chief” under that Canadian flag? 

J.L.: I think as the flag came off my shoulders 
and the National anthem was just starting, I 
could hear whispers of “it’s Chief, it’s chief”! 

C.C.A.: Is it a nice "proud” feeling walking 
through the camp or one of nostalgia and 
sadness? 

J.L.: No, no, it’s a feeling of strong pride, 
especially knowing that I’ve had an oppor¬ 
tunity of helping to train and guide some of 
these leaders and now to watch Hal Hanna- 
ford and the Senior Staff take over so well 
and still maintain the basic traditions and yet 
they’re alive enough and aware enough to be 
bringing in new ideas. I look at the Staff and 
smile inside and think "Hey, John, you've 
passed on a pretty good legacy and you 
should feel good about that, but also good 
that these people are now passing on what 
they believe in and sharing their values with 
another generation”. 

C.C.A.: You mention Hal Hannaford, Kilcoo’s 
Director. In an earlier C.C.A. interview (Winter 
1982), Charles Plewman said he’d had prob¬ 
lems with hiring directors from outside of the 
camp and concluded that "I’d jump over a 
hurdle of pretty serious proportions to use a 
man from the camp that knew the place from 
the ground up”. This is true of Hal, certainly; 
what’s your first recollection of Hal Hanna¬ 
ford as a young camper? 


6 


J.L.: A real bubbly guy that never stopped; he 
had the loudest laugh in the cabin group at 
night - I always knew where Hal was, day or 
night! He had tremendous enthusiasm, and 
was never a problem to his counsellors. 
When he became a counsellor, he had the 
craziest and most creative ideas with his 
cabin group - untying a dock and floating all 
day with his campers etc. - again, tremen¬ 
dous enthusiasm! Hal placed high expecta¬ 
tions on his campers, and even now, as Direc¬ 
tor, I see Hal's enthusiasm and I see him 
placing high expectations on his Staff. 

C.C.A.: You are currently working as a con¬ 
sultant with the Ministry of Tourism in the 
Ontario Government, overseeing the 
government-sponsored attractions in the 
Province; I won't even ask you if this is tem¬ 
porary because I know it is. What about a 
school, though, as a second career; I know 
you’ve long fantasized about directing¬ 
administrating a private school - might this 
ever come to fruition? 

J.L.: Yes, definitely, I've long fantasized about 
it and hopefully, yes, it might someday come 
to fruition. Whenever I see a group of kids, I 
like the idea of a school from perhaps grade 9 
on - I think that would be the area in which I 
feel most comfortable. I still feel I can play a 
significant role with them and I really do 
perceive a growing or continuing need for 
alternate educational situations. I get very 
motivated as I talk to groups of Staff 
members who I know I could look to for 
leadership. 

C.C.A.: Are you genuinely enjoying your 
“summer in the city” or do you find yourself 
clock-watching thinking “well, now the 
campers are at first period, the Senior Staff 
are meeting now, did the noon meal start on 
time?” 

J.L.: I think in May and June, as the summer 
was approaching, I had it built up in my mind 
that the city would be boring and dull. I kept 
telling myself that I would do chores and pro¬ 
jects around the house at nights to keep 
busy, Peg and I could go out alone to many 
restaurants that we’ve wanted to try - things 
like that. As it’s turned out, though, I’ve been 
busy travelling around the Province quite a 
bit for the Ministry; Peg and I also have been 
invited to many friend’s cottages - this year 
we can finally say “yes” to those invitations. 
So to be truthful, I’ve completed no projects 
around the house thus far, we’ve only been to 
one restaurant and the summer is moving by 
very rapidly. 

C.C.A.: Yesterday, for the second time in your 
life (the first being July, one month ago) you 
and Peg drove over to the parking lot to see 
the buses load up and drive off to camp. What 
were your feelings in July and how did you 
feel yesterday? 

J.L.: In July, it took about 2 days to get rid of 
the nagging feelings in my stomach! The 
hope that everything would go well for all 
those kids plus the fact that I knew I wasn't 
going to be there to share in their excitement 
- selfishly. I missed that. 


When I saw the buses leave yesterday for 
August camp, I felt good knowing that July 
had gone so well. I felt comfortable, a little 
nostalgic again knowing I wouldn’t be at 
Kilcoo to shake their hands as they got off 
the bus. 

As an aside, one thing really frustrated me 
both times in the parking lot. I pride myself on 
knowing each camper’s name and I had spent 
time going over the camp organization 
sheets, but when those 200 campers and 
parents converged on the parking lot - there 
was so much commotion, confusion, emo¬ 
tion. I really had trouble with names - and 
that bothered me. 

C.C.A.: Let me go back to 1938; how did it 
come about that young John Latimer went to 
Kilcoo Camp? 

J.L.: I guess like so many other kids in North 
America - through a friend up the street who 
had gone the previous year and enjoyed it. 

C.C.A.:What was your first recollection of 
Charles Plewman? 

J.L.: I remember him most clearly leading 
songs - that’s my first strong vivid memory of 
him. I also recall how “powerful” a man he 
appeared to be. His arms seemed so strong! I 
remember clearly during the war because so 
many of his Staff were away fighting and 
Charlie was very close to them. Some, of 
course, were killed; I remember being very 
moved when he announced to the camp in 
the dining hall that last year’s swimming in¬ 
structor was killed or the counsellor of a cer¬ 
tain tent had been taken prisoner. Every Sun¬ 
day night during these war years, Charles 
Plewman would assemble the entire camp in 
the dining hall and at one end he had huge 
maps and he would go through where the 
allies were, and where the Germans, Italians, 
Japanese were advancing. He followed the 
war very closely and made that awareness a 
significant part of camp to us. 

C.C.A.: At what point in your development at 
Kilcoo did you feel or know that you wanted 
to be a Camp Director? 

J.L.: Well, it was never “a” Camp Director - it 
was only the Director of Kilcoo that I aspired 
to. According to Charles Plewman, I an¬ 
nounced it to him when I was about 9 years 
old that someday I would own this camp. I 
think many young people say that to their 
directors; camp was always a secure place, a 
very happy place for me. It wasn’t until the 
1950’s when I was working in the city during 
the year that I realized how important the 
camp was to me and it became essential that 
I would eventually try to buy the place. That 
opportunity arose in 1955 when Charlie decid¬ 
ed he had reached the point where he would 
like to sell Kilcoo. He didn’t have any sons of 
his own, and he had always told me that I 
would have first option. 

C.C.A.: Wasn’t there a slight problem in that 
you couldn’t match the offer of another group 
and you had to forfeit your dream of owning 
Ki Icoo? And then a mystery offer came to you 
and your bid matched the other group and the 


camp was sold to you? 

J.L.: (pause, wistfully) Yes, and when I later 
found out that the donor of the mystery offer 
was none other than Charles Plewman, I 
cried! What a man! 

C.C.A.: At what point as a Camp Director did 
you first begin your involvement with O.C.A. 
and C.C.A.? 

J.L.: In the fall of 1955 Charles took me to my 
first O.C.A. meeting at the Park Plaza Hotel 
and he introduced me to Taylor Statten, Ernie 
Chapman and A.L. Cochrane. These people I 
had read about. Shortly afterwards, I did 
become involved around the late 1950’s and 
my involvement grew until I became O.C.A. 
President. My first vivid C.C.A. recollection 
was 1967 when I was asked to Chair the 
Centenary Journey, an idea formulated by 
Kirk Wipper. My first meeting with the then 
President of C.C.A., David Hartry was in the 
basement of a synogogue in Halifax, - the 
year was 1965. 

C.C.A.: I remember when you were C.C.A. 
President 1971-75 because I was fortunate 
enough to serve on your Executive; how did 
that first National Geneva Park Conference 
come about? 

J.L.: I think that came out of the idea that we 
as a Board would be meeting a number of 
times throughout the country and we would 
see specific problems or concerns in other 
Provinces and they would say "what’s hap¬ 
pening in Ontario, what’s happening in 
Quebec, British Columbia?” etc. I was 
meeting some tremendous individuals 
throughout the country and believed we 
would all benefit if we could ask our own 
questions to each other - I wanted the grass 
roots of the C.C.A. to be able to genuinely feel 
that they were a part of something national. 
Geneva Park provided that forum for us! 

C.C.A.: In your tenure of office as C.C.A. 
President, I recall several volatile issues: like 
standards, constitution, changing the name 
of C.C.A. etc. What are your memories of 
those particular issues? 

J.L.: I remember wanting the name changed 
because we were and still are assumed by the 
public to be “that group in charge of trailer 
camping throughout Canada”. People were 
very vocal, especially in Ontario, and we 
never did change our name. 

Standards were always contentious - and 
not just in each Province. When we talked of 
National Standards, people feared “regula¬ 
tions” or “imposed standards” but our inten¬ 
tion was always an initiative of education and 
information - sharing only. This issue still 
isn’t resolved - there are no national stan¬ 
dards and I think it would be very difficult to 
implement the same standards to all camps 
across the country. 

I personally felt uncomfortable about the 
relationship between French camps and 
camps in English-speaking Canada. This, un¬ 
fortunately, is an ongoing concern even 
today, wrought with political overtones, - I 
know I’ve made enemies over this issue but I 



keep thinking we’re forgetting the campers 
and their collective interests which aren’t 
being served by our politics. 

C.C.A.: In what way do you feel the Associa¬ 
tion is stronger and weaker than it was a 
decade ago? 

J.L.rAn interesting question in that the 
Association is strong usually because of cer¬ 
tain individuals within it and also the support 
it gets from the Provinces. I suppose it’s a 
normal thing that one Province will be par¬ 
ticularly strong at a given time and therefore 
very supportive of the Association; it may 
have a number of high-profile people who are 
very committed to camping. Much of the 
policy which stems from the National Board 
is that they often have to come to the 
assistance of a weaker Province, so strength 
and weakness seems to shift around in fits 
and starts from Province to Province and 
time to time. When a Province is weak, there 
is usually a lack of consistency in the leader¬ 
ship of that Province. Consistency is so im¬ 
portant; when I was President, I was uncom¬ 
fortable over the lack of consistency, and I 
know this is shared by the Presidents who 
followed me. It is evidenced at a Board 
meeting, for example, when a new person 
suddenly shows up and doesn’t know the 
background of their own Province or C.C.A. 
and much time is spent trying to bring them 
up to date. I can only urge each Provincial 
Association to try to ensure that whoever at¬ 
tends National meetings is very familiar with 
the issues, policies and ongoing concerns of 
the C.C.A. 

C.C.A.: Outside of Mr. Plewman, what in¬ 
dividuals have had a significant effect on the 
growth and development of John Latimer? 

J.L.: Bert Danson, certainly, because he was 
the first person to phone me after I took over 
the camp and volunteered to help me in any 
way. He let me see the books at his camp, he 
gave me advice as to how to get involved in 
the O.C.A. and I think it was Bert who then 
committed me to be prepared, anxious and 
keen to do exactly the same thing to new 
Directors as they came into the Association - 
I’ve tried to pass that on. John Hoyle at Camp 
Gay Venture came over to my house a couple 
of times and talked about the history and 
philosophy of camping and what was impor¬ 
tant to him; I always felt I could give him 
a call. 

In the earlier days, young June Labbett 
was always one of the most friendly at camp¬ 
ing conferences and even though I was 
younger I felt very comfortable in being able 
to talk with her and discuss my camp prob¬ 
lems with her. 

Jumping ahead, I remember one night at a 
hotel in Toronto when the guest speaker was 
Barry Lowes and Barry talked a lot about the 
challenges to camping; it was a very moving 
situation for me. I left that banquet hall feel¬ 
ing challenged and motivated in trying to 
understand my values and reasons for being 
in camping. It was a profound assessment, I 
felt, and Barry sure left, an impact! 


Within my own personal area, two more 
people have had a tremendous influence on 
me in that they were close enough to me that 
they were always asking me questions and 
making me assess why I was doing what I 
was doing. One is Peggy, who was able to see 
past the impossibility of some of my dreams 
and in a positive way, create a situation 
where she’d ask me why I was doing some¬ 
thing, especially where the campers were 
concerned. 

The other person is you, Jay; whether it 
was at C.C.A. meetings when I didn’t know 
how to handle a particularly difficult situa¬ 
tion in a personal conflict in a Board meeting, 

I could always sit with you knowing you’d ask 
the right questions and lead me into what I 
hoped was the right decision. The same 
applied when you were with me at Kilcoo, par¬ 
ticularly in your later years as a senior per¬ 
son; you had a definite influence on helping 
me make a decision or take a particular 
action. 

I guess philosophically one of the guys 
that influenced me a lot regarding my camp 
and my own personal life was Leo Buscaglia. 
That’s one reason I’m so pleased he’s coming 
to the Congress. He has helped me allow my 
Staff to develop their own strengths and uni¬ 
queness, without ridicule or stress in having 
to conform and “ape” others. 

Generally speaking, there are so many 
others that have influenced me and become 
close friends - people that I can count on for 
advice, suggestions, encouragement and 
support. I guess my closest friends in life are 
people I’ve met through camping; that’s why 
to me it’s such a great experience, a lifetime 
experience, and I am very grateful to the 
camping community. 

C.C.A.: Finally, I’d like to ask you about your 
sons - all three are in leadership capacities 
with David at Camp Mazinaw and Jeffrey and 
Michael at Kilcoo. Do you see in them the per¬ 
sonality characteristics which might lead 
them to a career in camp directing? 

J.L.: I think each in his own way has 
something to offer as camp directors; I’ve 
tried hard, though, not to say to the guys 
“someday this camp will be yours; therefore 
you have to prepare yourself for it”. I’ve seen 
situations where the sons really didn’t want 
to take over but were perhaps forced into it 
and the commitment wasn’t there. Each son, 
on his own, has to make that decision. The 
boys have many differences but tremendous 
similarities too that would offer so much to 
camping. I hope sometime in the next few 
years there will be a role in camping for them 
somewhere in Canada. 


SEE YOU 
AT THE 
CONGRESS 


INTERNATIONAL 
CAMPING CONGRESS 
UPDATE 

• Registration Forms and Programs have 
been mailed to all members. 

• Advanced registration for the “bargain 
rates” must be postmarked by December 
17,1982. 

• SASKSPORT has committed a grant of 
$5,000 to assist Saskatchewan delegates to 
attend. 

• Eastern Provincial Airways has quoted a 
“super-saver” rate for delegates from Atlan¬ 
tic Canada. 

• Thanks to Jack Zoubie, our Dept, of Exter¬ 
nal Affairs has been tremendously helpful 
in publicizing this event in over 30 countries 
resulting in several inquiries about the Con¬ 
gress. 

• We are encouraged by the financial support 
we have received from a large number of 
directors as well as staff members from 
Canadian camps - $10, $20, $50 - every 
single donation has been (AND WILL BE) 
gratefully received; in other words, we still 
need your help! 

• The Director of Camping in Bermuda will 
bring 5 delegates. 

• Jack Murdock, our liaison from the Ameri¬ 
can Camping Association has helped im¬ 
mensely to communicate with our Ameri¬ 
can friends through the Bradford Woods 
headquarters. 

• The Ontario March of Dimes deserves our 
gratitude for enabling Kirsty Griffiths to co¬ 
ordinate the entire Congress program. 


Camp and Community 
Development Director 
CAMP GLENBURN 
New Brunswick 

Summer & Winter 
Outdoor Education Centre 

Requires enthusiastic, mature and ener¬ 
getic individual with senior staff experience 
in camping, outdoor education and youth 
leadership. Responsibilities include budget 
preparation and implementation and devel¬ 
opment of broad base of community pro¬ 
grams. Close cooperation with volunteers 
essential. Candidates with a degree in 
Recreation or Physical Education should 
submit a detailed resume to: 

Executive Director, Y.W.C.A. 

27 Wellington Row, 

Saint John, N.B. E2L 3W2 


8 




Pre-Congress Events 

I. ASSOCIATION MEETINGS 


Canadian Camping Association/Association des Camps du Canada 

Board of Directors 
Promotions Workshop 
Standards Workshop 
Education Workshop 


Monday 24 January 1:00 p.m. - Tuesday 25 January 5:00 p.m. 
Tuesday 25 January 1:00 p.m. - Wednesday 26 January 5:00 p.m 
Tuesday 25 January 1:00 p.m. - Wednesday 26 January 5:00 p.m, 
Tuesday 25 January 1:00 p.m. - Wednesday 26 January 5:00 p.m, 


Contact: Marjorie Booth, Executive Director, 1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 


Canadian Recreational Canoeing Association 

Canoe Travel Camping Committee 
Canoe Camping, Environment & Ethics Committee 
Canoeing with Disabled Persons Committee 
Leadership Development Committee 
Board of Directors 

CRCA Exec & America Canoe Assoc. Exec. 

Contact: John Eberhard, CRCA 


Friday 28 January (Interested observers are welcome 
Friday 28 January at Committee Meetings) 

Friday 28 January 
Friday 28 January 
Friday 28 January 
Saturday 29 January 

President, Box 54, Hyde Park, Ontario N0M 1Z0 


II. KINDRED GROUP MEETINGS 


Meetings will take place immediately prior to the Congress and are open to camping administrators in related fields. Programs and information 
for these meetings will be designed and disseminated by the co-ordinator listed. Indicate on the Congress Registration Form the meeting which 
you plan to attend. All Kindred groups will meet at the Sheraton Centre Hotel. 


Brethren Assemblies Camps 

Craig Copland 

c/o Camp Mini-Yo-We 

45 Crendon Drive, Etobicoke, Ont. 

M9C3G6 416-622-4802 

25 Jan., 9:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. 


Career Preparation for University Students 
in the Outdoor Field 

Claude Cousineau, Dept, of Recreology 
University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ont. 

KIN 6N5 613-231-2996 
26 Jan., 1:00-4:00 p.m. 


Christian Camping International 
Brian Larmour 

45 Crendon Drive, Etobitoke, Ont. 
M9C 3G6 416-622-4802 
26 Jan., 9:00 a.m.-4:00 p.m. 


Day Camp 
Larry Bell 

1804 Avenue Road, Suite 1 
Toronto, Ont. 

M5M3Z1 416-783-4951 
26 Jan., 9:00 a.m.-4:00 p.m. 


Private Christian Science Camps 
Brant Wilson 
4 Lewes Crescent 
Toronto, Ont. 

M4N 3H9 416-484-1904 
26 Jan., 9:00 a.m.-4:00 p.m. 


YMCA 

Rob Fleming, c/o Camp Wanakita 
Flamilton YMCA, 79 James Street South 
Flamilton, Ont. 

L8P2Z1 416-529-7102 

25 Jan., 9:00 a.m. - 26 Jan., Noon 


ATTENTION! 

CATCH UP WITH YOUR PAST 

Children’s camping is older than most of us 
realize. In time for the coming International 
Camping Congress and for our own informa¬ 
tion, we need to know who opened the first 
camp in Canada. As well, we would like to co¬ 
ordinate a list of camps in Canada which 
were opened prior to 1900, 1910, and 1920. 

Please dig into provincial government 
departments (education, health, land titles/ 
surveys) as well as those of Church, YWCA, 
YMCA, Boy Scouts, Girl Guides, CGIT, and 
private records. 

This kind of information has never been 
researched in detail - we may be surprised at 
the number of early camps established in 
Canada. Help us know our heritage! 

Contact: 

Mr. Ken Johnson, Archivist 
Thomas J. Bata Library 
Trent University 
Peterborough, Ontario 
K9J 7B8 
(705) 748-1413 



Photo Courtesy: Camp Papillon 


OUR MISTAKE! 

MEMBER CAMP STATISTICS 
SUMMER 1982 

Recently the provincial associations have 
forwarded a statistics questionnaire to all 
member camps. Unfortunately, the CCA/ACC 
questionnaire was sent with the wrong year 
typed in the Camper Data Section. Although 
the accompanying letter clearly states we 
need 1982 totals, we want to apologize for the 
confusion created. 

Please forward your 1982 totals to your 
provincial association as soon as possible. 
Thank-you. 


9 


PRESIDENT’S 



PROGRAM DIRECTOR 

KINSMEN CAMP HORIZON 

Administratively responsible to the Camp Director for the 
overall planning, supervision, implementation and evaluation 
of all Camp Horizon’s Programs. 

Preferred qualifications: 

Degree in Outdoor Recreation, Recreation Administration or 
related studies; 

Minimum 2 years experience in outdoor field and knowledge 
of the operation of an outdoor centre; 

Experience in Therapeutic Recreation an asset but not essen¬ 
tial. 

Salary negotiable - Room and Board Provided. 

KINSMEN CAMP HORIZON 

One of Alberta’s most progressive Outdoor Centres which has 
developed an extensive and unique program specializing in 
the leisure needs of disabled persons. 

Forward R6sum6s to: 

Marc Langlois 

410-5920-1A Street S.W. 

CALGARY, Alta. T2H 0G3 


PERSPECTIVE 

by Jocelyn Palm 

The International Camping Congress in Toronto, 
January 26-29,1983 is on everyone’s mind and calen¬ 
dars. Now that we are close to the event, excitement 
is really building. The program does without ques¬ 
tion offer much for everyone. 

Congress Chairman, John Latimer says, “This Con¬ 
gress gives each one of us as leaders of young 
people, the opportunity to listen, to share, to give.” 
Camping people from across Canada should cap¬ 
ture this opportunity! 

The United Nations has declared 1984 the Interna¬ 
tional Year of Youth. We, the Canadian Camping 
Association are the youth and camping experts. The 
International Camping Congress will show who we 
are and in ’84 we can further that image. 

The Congress Committee have been busy raising 
funds to meet Congress expenses - in order to keep 
your registration fee reasonable. Voluntary contri¬ 
butions are an important chunk of the budget. Many 
individuals and camps have donated and we are pro¬ 
ceeding now in earnest as we get close to the open¬ 
ing. The name of each Congress Donor will be 
printed on the banquet program. We want all 
delegates to see who these people are. Should you 
wish to contribute, please send your cheque to the 
CCA by December 31st. These contributions are 
charitable donations and a tax receipt will be issued. 

There will be three CCA Workshops in Toronto just 
prior to the Congress; the Promotion Workshop 
chaired by Marnie Ellis (Quebec), the Standards 
Workshop organized by Brian Law (Manitoba) and 
Education Workshop steered by Dorothy Walter 
(Ontario). Each Provincial camping association will 
therefore have four representatives whose travel 
expenses are provided through the CCA and Fitness 
Canada. Our Association is fortunate to have 
Fitness Canada’s support not only for the Congress 
but many other significant projects. 

Do get together this fall and make plans for January. 
See you in Toronto! 


10 



WINNING PHOTO! 


Menu Feature 



Congratulations to Janice De Long, Anglican Youth Camp, N.S. 


RAW VEGETABLE DIPS 
Courtesy, Lynne Ferguson, CANS 

Curry-Mayonnaise Dip 

1V 2 cup Mayonnaise 
2 tsp. Curry powder 
1 tbsp. Grated onion 
V 2 tsp. Salt 
V2 tsp. Dry mustard 

Combine. 


Raw Vegetable Dip 

1 cup Mayonnaise 

2 tbsp. Chopped onion 

1 tsp. Ground ginger 

4 tsp. Soya sauce 

1 tsp. Vinegar 

Mix together & let stand several hours. Serve 
chilled. 


Yogurt or Sour Cream 

Garlic 

Salt 

Pepper 

Bay leaves 

Ketchup 

Paprika 

Lemon juice 

Cream Cheese & Crushed Pineapple 


1 cup 

Vegetable Dip 

Mayonnaise 

1 cup 

Whipping cream 

1 clove 

Garlic 

2 

Salt & pepper 

Dash curry powder 

Finely chopped green onions 

2 tsp. 

Chopped parsley 

3 oz. 

Cream cheese, if desired 

6 oz. 

Spread 

Blue cheese 

12 oz. 

Cream cheese 


Black olives & onion 


Soften cheese and mix ingredients into a ball, 
roll ball in crushed walnuts. 

Serve with cauliflower, broccoli, carrot sticks, 
celery, green onions, cucumber, cherry 
tomatoes. 


“Happy faces ready for Christmas Dinner & Santa Claus n 


PHOTO CONTEST 

Canadian Camping will feature an outstanding photograph in 
each issue. Campers and Staff are invited to submit photo¬ 
graphs of people, nature, program and tripping. Send as many 
as you like to Canadian Camping. 


ENTRY FORM 

Name_Camper 

Address_Staff _ 

Prov._Postal Code_Tel._ 

Camp Affiliation _ 

Special Information_ 


11 





GROUP DYNAMICS EXERCISE 

by: Jay Haddad 


This issue’s exercise was supplied by Jude de 
Guerre of Wolfville, Nova Scotia. I have used 
the exercise twice since first seeing it at 
Camp Hillis, in Paradise, Nova Scotia in early 
June, 1982. The most interesting aspect of 
this exercise is the kind of emotional change 
that each individual experiences; after 
reading the story, each person is asked to 
rank order the five characters from the most 
admirable to the least admirable. It’s amazing 
to watch the dynamics of people discussing/ 
arguing because no group will rank order the 
characters in the same order; actually, in¬ 
dividuals within each group will change their 
feelings of admiration from character to 
character as the discussion ensues. It’s a 
great exercise to facilitate as you can float 
around from group to group asking questions 
and making comments; keep on top of each 
group, though, because very volatile feelings 
will erupt with regard to issues like honesty, 
morality, fidelity, proper parenting, friend¬ 
ship, love and emotions. 

It might be a good idea to set a time limit 
for discussion, because if you don’t, the 
discussion simply won’t subside. Be ready to 
impose a time limit, then jump in and con¬ 
clude by tying things up and reassuring 
everyone that there are no “rights” or 
“wrongs” absolutely. Again, you can refer to 
previous issues for the psychology behind 
“groupthink exercises”. This is a good one; 
have fun with it and here goes: 

Once upon a time, there was a river that 
was practically overflowing with 
alligators. As you may have guessed, it 
was called Alligator River. A girl named 
Abigail lived on the west bank of the 
river. Her boy friend, Greg, lived on the 
opposite bank. Abigail and Greg were 
very much in love with each other and 
wanted very much to see each other. 

But there was one slight complication: 
no boat, and an alligator-filled river 
stood between them. Abigail decided to 
seek help so that she could see her boy 
friend, Greg. She approached Sinbad the 
Sailor, who, as his name might indicate, 
owned a boat. Now this was very 
fortunate for Abigail, because Sinbad’s 
boat was exactly what she needed to get 
across the river. She explained her 
situation to Sinbad and asked if she 
could borrow his boat. Sinbad thought 
for a moment and then replied: “Sure, if 
you sleep with me tonight.” This startled 


Abigail, because she didn’t want to 
sleep with Sinbad; she just wanted to 
borrow his boat so she could see Greg. 
So, she told Sinbad to forget it, and 
wandered off seeking someone else who 
would help her. 

After a great deal of time, Abigail was 
unable to find anyone else who could aid 
her. Discouraged, she returned home, 
where she sought out her mother. 
Explaining her dilemma and Sinbad’s 
proposition, Abigail asked her mother 
what she should do. Mom responded 
with: “Look, Abigail, you’re a big girl 
now; it’s about time you started making 
these kinds of decisions for yourself.” 
With that, Mom turned and walked away. 

Abigail thought and thought. Finally, 
she decided to take Sinbad up on his 
offer, because she wanted to see Greg 
so very much. So that night Abigail and 
Sinbad slept with each other. The next 
morning, Sinbad, true to his word, lent 
his boat to Abigail. Abigail sailed across 
the river and saw her beloved. After 
spending a few delightful hours together, 
Abigail felt compelled to tell Greg what 
had happened. After she had related her 
whole story, Greg blew up completely: 
“You what? I can’t believe you did that! 

I - I can’t believe you slept with him! 
That’s it. It’s all over. Just forget the 
relationship. Get out of my life!” 

Distraught, Abigail wandered off. She 
came upon a fellow named Slug. 
Borrowing his shoulder to shed her 
tears, Abigail related her tale to Slug. 
Slug then went looking for Greg (with 
Abigail close behind). Slug found Greg 
and proceeded to beat the stuffing out 
of him, with Abigail standing there, 
laughing. 

In your estimation, who was the most 
admirable person in this story? Rank them 
in order. 

_Abigail 

_Greg 

_Sinbad 

_Mom 

_Slug 



Photo Courtesy Camp Tawingo 


12 


'V'- 



New Brunswick holds 
finnual Counsellor Workshop 

by: Ian Fowler 


The weekend of May 28-30 saw 82 camp 
counsellors and a resource staff of 10 con¬ 
verge on Camp Glenburn near St. John for the 
3rd Annual N.B.C.A. Counsellor Conference. 
After months of planning and promotion, the 
organizers were able to breathe a sigh of 
relief as the delegates filtered into camp, 
knowing for the second consecutive year that 
over 80 counsellors were going to be properly 
prepared for the upcoming summer. From the 
beginning it was obvious the weekend would 
be successful as the delegates from 18 differ¬ 
ent camps were full of enthusiasm and dis¬ 
played the willingness required to make the 
workshop an educational experience. 

John Jorgenson the Consultant/Advisor 
for the workshop set the tone for the entire 
weekend with his opening remarks on the re¬ 
sponsibilities of a counsellor. Jorgi outlined 
his experiences in working with campers and 
how summer camp is a learning experience 
not only for the camper but also for the coun¬ 
sellor. Throughout his talk, Jorgi referred 
often to a winter camping course in which he 
participated. He reflected back on the trials 
and tribulations of his experience and how it 
was a marvellous learning opportunity only 
because he wanted to be. The same applies 
to the camp counsellor, Jorgi explained, that 
if they gave their full potential they would be 
rewarded with a summer that would provide 
memories and experiences to last a lifetime. 

The first evening concluded with a session 
on campfire programs. John Jorgenson 
shared with the delegates the unique 
Tawingo approach to this subject leaving the 
group with ajibrary of ideas on skits, stunts, 
games and songs. Who will ever forget 
“Black Bart.” 

Saturday was designed so the participants 
could select activity areas which appealed to 
them. Sessions included canoeing, nature 
games, back-pocket activities, orienteering, 
rainy day programs, camp craft, arts and 
crafts, and acclimatization,to mention a few. 
All sessions were conducted by resource 
staff from throughout New Brunswick who 
volunteered their services for the weekend. 
The afternoon ended with a free swim period 
providing a refreshing break for the delegates 
after a hot day full of activity. 

The evening session was conducted by 
Jorgi and was devoted to the development of 
an Indian Program at camp. The program 
began with a slide presentation on a typical 
Indian Council Ceremony to acquaint the par¬ 
ticipants as to what the evening held in store. 
Following this the group had the opportunity 
to view first hand many costumes and props 
all transported by Jorgi from Tawingo. The 
highlight of the evening was just beginning, 
however, as everyone paraded to the beach 
for an Indian Council Ceremony. This pro¬ 
vided the opportunity for all to participate in 


Indian songs, dances and games. Presenta¬ 
tions were made by various cabin groups to 
the council providing a complete picture as to 
what Indian Programs are all about. 

To many of the delegates this was their 
first experience with Indian Programs and 
one sure to leave lasting memories. 

Saturday evenings closed with a super 
snack and then back to the beach for a giant 
sing song and campfire. 

Sunday again saw the sun shining for the 
final day of the workshop. Participants en¬ 
joyed the opportunity to select sessions from 
a list including leadership, health and safety, 
special events, co-operative games and the 
survival games. 

In conjunction with the Counsellor Work¬ 
shop a one day workshop for Camp Directors 
was also held. Although only of one day in 
duration most of the directors remained for 
the weekend and participated in some of the 
counsellor activities providing them with an 
opportunity to see what their staff were learn¬ 
ing. Topics at the director’s seminar included 


program planning, emergency procedures, 
food service, and staff relations. The Direc¬ 
tors were also pleased with their experience 
that a request was made to expand the work¬ 
shop to the same 2V2 days as the counsellor 
workshop. 

Overall the entire weekend was very suc¬ 
cessful. Delegates evaluated the workshop 
sessions very high and one passed along the 
following comment, “This workshop really 
opened my eyes and showed what a Camp 
Counsellor really is.” 

Thanks should be extended to a variety of 
people for their contributions including the 
Canadian Camping Association, and Fitness 
Canada for providing funding for our Con¬ 
sultant/Advisor, Flora Dell and the New 
Brunswick Department of Youth, Recreation 
and Cultural Resources for their financial 
grant, the volunteers who gave of their time to 
conduct sessions and finally a big thank-you 
to John Jorgenson, our energetic Consultant/ 
Advisor who did everything asked of him and 
more. 



13 


Photo Courtesy: Camp Tawingo 




POEM 

The Dumbest Person 
In The World 

How dumb? 

Very dumb. 

It’s the 
Canadian 
who knocks 
what he’s got. 

Here’s what 
he’s got: 

A country of 
unbounded beauty. 

Almost unlimited 
natural resources. 

A judicial system 
that is the envy 
of the rest of 
the world. 

Food so plentiful 
overeating is a 
major problem. 

A press 

nobody can dominate. 

A ballot box 
nobody can stuff. 

Churches of your choice. 

Plentiful job opportunities. 

Freedom to go anywhere 
you want, with the 
planes, cars and highways 
to get you there. 

Social Security. 

Medicare. 

Unemployment insurance. 

Public schools and 
plentiful scholarships. 

Opportunity to become 
a millionaire. 

O.K., Complainer, 
what’s your 
second 
choice? 

Go. 

Reprinted with slight variation 
from the Wall Street Journal by 
United Technologies Corporation, 

Hartford, Connecticut 06101. 


Saskatchewan Camping Association 
Spring Conference 

by: Karen Crawford 


May 1 was a lovely spring day at Kelsey Insti¬ 
tute of Applied Arts and Sciences for the 
spring conference. A happy chatting group of 
about ninety lined up for registration. David 
Godwin, president of S.C.A., welcomed every¬ 
one and Jocelyn Palm, president of the Cana¬ 
dian Camping Association, was introduced. 
Using ‘Peanuts’ cartoons, she started the 
conference off on a positive and upbeat note 
with her droll and sometimes profound 
answer to her topic’s question “Will camp 
make me a winner?’’ 

The conference then divided into four 
streams: Activity; Administration; Leader¬ 
ship; and Counsellor. Dinny Biggs started the 
Activity stream leading an enthusiasticgroup 
throughout the morning in Initiative Tasks, 
Cooperative and New Games. Jane McCut- 
cheon and Ian Fowler led a session around 
evening programs at camp which went over 
very well as we were to find out at the closing 
exercises. 

The Administration stream included four 
sessions by well-versed experts. Janet Adam¬ 
son shared her experience in her talk about 
Effective Staff Supervision. Terry Burkhalter 
lead a group whose topic was “Church Camp¬ 
ing: An Important Ministry" - a very relevant 
topic considering the large number of church 
camps in the province. Jocelyn Palm outlined 
a vital area which concerns all camps; Emer¬ 
gency Procedures at Camp. Rick Ryan had 
prepared a useful hand-out for his topic 
“Financial Planning For Non-Profit Camps”. 
He allowed his group the time to read his pre¬ 
sentation which outlined objectives, cash 
flow procedures, budgeting and investments 
and then spent the rest of the time giving sug¬ 
gestions to problems the group presented. 

The Leadership stream had four diverse 
topics: “Camping with Special Populations" 
by Terry Burkhalter, George Matthews and 
Brian Law emphasized the skills of the 
campers rather than their limitations. Gary 
Luthy and Michael Kenny gave many helpful 
suggestions to a well-attended lecture regar¬ 
ding public relations - a sadly neglected and 
ineffective area for most camps. Dinny Biggs, 
in a well-prepared lecture gave many ideas 
about what a good CIT program includes. Jan 
James then spoke about “Camper’s Needs: 
Back to the Basics or New Wave?" 



Photo Courtesy: Camp Tartamakoon 


The Counsellor stream was started by 
Dorothy Walter talking about “The Counsel¬ 
lor as a Person." “Parachute Play to Music", a 
very popular session was given by Claire 
Menard and Michel Charron proving that 
there is no language division where fun and 
laughter are concerned. Marjorie Booth, ex¬ 
ecutive director of CCA, gave a useful lecture 
on “The Counsellor’s Role on Rainy Days." 
Jocelyn Palm ended the counsellor stream 
with her talk on "Waterfront Program and 
Aquatic Safety". 

A very warm and sincere closing done by 
two groups of participants from Jane McCut- 
cheon and Ian Fowler’s session on evening 
programs gave appreciation and pleasure 
especially to the CCA and SCA delegates as 
they parodied the day’s events. 

The SCA was very pleased with the way the 
conference went. Aside from the gratifyingly 
high number of registrants and people who 
became members of SCA, there were other 
positive aspects to the conference: The high 
calibre of expertise of the people who did the 
sessions; their use of visual aids, good 
humour, good use of time and the input allow¬ 
ed and sought after from the participants. 
Best of all the day was the enthusiasm and 
obvious enjoyment of all those who were 
there. 






Dispose of camp food 
^ service problems with 

roval Chinet 

disposable plates and bowls 

Strong, attractive Royal CHINET food service products help you ... 

• DISPOSE OF DISHWASHING COSTS 

Cut the expense of installing, maintaining and manning equipment 
that is used only a few months of the year. 

• DISPOSE OF BREAKAGE 

Save yourself the trouble and expense of buying matching replace¬ 
ments for pieces that crack, chip and shatter. 

• DISPOSE OF FOOD WASTE 

You get exact portion control with Royal CHINET’s wide range of 
sizes in regular and compartmented designs. 

• DISPOSE OF GERM COLLECTORS 

Royal CHINET products are sterilized when manufactured and 
packaged. And there’s never a germ-collecting chip, crack or 
poorly washed dish. 

• DISPOSE OF IRRITATING NOISE 

Disposable service is silent service. Meals are relaxed without the 
clatter and crash of china or metal. 

ENVIRONMENTAL ADVANTAGES, TOO 

All good campers want to protect the environment. Royal CHINET prod¬ 
ucts are manufactured from a renewable resource. What's more, they’re 
biodegradable ... molded of natural wood fibres that burn readily with 
little smoke. Even if discarded out-of-doors, Royal CHINET quickly de¬ 
composes in the earth. 

Get the full particulars now. Mail this coupon today. 


CANADIAN KEYES FIBRE COMPANY LTD 
HANTSPORT, NOVA SCOTIA 

Please provide me with details of the variety and costs of Royal 
CHINET food service products. 

NAME_ 

COMPANY or CAMP _ 

ADDRESS _ i A 









Canadian camping association 
association dcs camps du Canada 


SUITE 2. 1806 AVENUE ROAD 
TORONTO ONTARIO M5M 321 


VOL. 34, NO. 3 
AUTUMN 1982 
ISSN 008-3119 


1822 

MISS MARION BABCOCK 
215 - 25 LORNE AVE. 
NEWMARKET ON 
L 3Y 5N8 


SUBSCRIPTION RATE SPECIfiU!! 

As we endeavour to continually upgrade our magazine content, we are finding more and more material suitable to Camp Staff. Many counsellors 
are requesting reprints of articles and/or entire issues. We would like to encourage Camp Directors to enter full subscriptions to Canadian Camping 
for their Staff and Senior Staff who are not already members of your provincial camping association. We feel it will be an investment well worth it 
and to this end we would like to offer the following special rate: 

After the first two full-rate subscriptions at $6.00/year, we will offer any additional one-year subscriptions at only S4.00/year. Please act now and 
save! Subscribe your staff to Canadian Camping and receive four issues a year: interviews, editorials, advice column, group dynamics exercises, 
articles and much, much more.. .your staff will thank you, your campers will benefit! 


PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY 


PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY 


Name_ 

Address_ 

City_Province_Postal Code. 

PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY 

Name_ 

Address_ 

City_Province_Postal Code 


Name 


Address 


rtf 

2 


City 

Province 

O 

Postal Code O 

c 

T» 




-Tl- 

PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY 

fg 

o 

TJ H 

Name 


rn N 

- 

o> 

35 z* 

Address 


ro m 

(n 

—n 

r 

Citv 

Province 

T"» 

Postal Code 

d 

X 


PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY 


PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY 


Name_ Name 

Address_ Address. 



•U> 4 v 



























































