Canadian 

camping 

april/avril edition 1975 



OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 


THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION / L'ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU CANADA 


CHESTNUT CANOE CO. LTD. 

OROMOCTO, N.B. 

OVER 75 YEARS OF SERVICE TO CANADIAN CAMPERS 



WE HAVE A CANOE FOR EVERY PURPOSE 


Over 45 Models to choose from. 


Write to the Chestnut Canoe Co. Ltd., P.O. Box 185, Oromocto, N.B. 

for Free Literature and Prices 




CANADIAN CAMPING 
ASSOCIATION 

Suite 203, 102 Eglinton Avenue East 
Toronto, Ontario M4P 1E1, Canada 


Executive: 

President: 

Vice President: 

Secretary: 

Treasurer: 


John R. Latimer 
Ron Johnstone 
Jay Haddad 
Bryan Graham 


table of contents-sommaire 


Vol. 27 No. 3 

April Edition 1975 edition d’avril 

VIEWPOINT. 5 

by Paul Belanger 

THE OUTDOORSMAN. 7 

by Larry R. Johnston 

TIPS . 1 



"CANADIAN CAMPING" 
PERSONNEL 


Managing Director: 
Editor: 

Advertising Manager: 
Circulation Manager: 
Directory Chairman: 


Jocelyn Palm 
Helen E. Stewart 
Doug Dent 
Mary Pat Bradbury 
Peter Gilbert 


GROUP INITIATIVE TASKS . 9 

by Stan Talesnick 

ORGANIZING A SAILING PROGRAM . 10 

by Catherine Thomas 

A TRIBUTE TO. 12 

ON THE BUSES . 13 

by Kenneth Robinson 

CLASSIFIED ADS. 13 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR. 14 


"Canadian Camping" is the official publica¬ 
tion of the Canadian Camping Association. 
Published four times a year. 


ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS AT CAMP 
by Dr. John J. Kirk 

CAMPING IN B.C. 

by Grant McKeen 


15 

16 


Subscription rates: 

$5.00 - 1 year; $12.00 - 3 years 
Single copy - $1.50 


CHANGES IN INFECTIOUS DISEASE IMMUNIZATION . 19 

by J. Harry Ebbs, M.D. 


All translations by / tous les traductions par 


Paul Belanger s.m. 


CCA membership includes subscription 


Cover 


designed by Violet A. Cat/in, Graphics, 


Couverture 

Typesetter for Canadian Camping 


PROVINCIAL OFFICES 


BUREAUX PROVINCIAUX 


B.C. Camping Association 
633 W. 8th Avenue, Vancouver, B.C. 
(Rick Ryan, President) 


Alberta Camping Association 
332 - 6th Avenue S.W. 
Calgary, Alta. T2P OR 1 
(Nestor Kelba, President) 

Saskatchewan Camping Association 
P.0. Box 823 
Regina, Saskatchewan 
(Margaret Pezderic, President) 


Manitoba Camping Association 
385 St. Mary Ave. 
Winnipeg, Man. R3C ON 1 
(Marvin Wall, President) 


Ontario Camping Association 
102 Eglinton Avenue East, Suite 203 
Toronto, Ont. M4P 1E1 
(Jack Pearse, President) 

L 'association des camps du Quebec 
and 

Quebec Camping Association 
1415 est rue Jarry, Montreal, Que. H2E 1A7 
(Abbe Rosaire Corbin, president) 

English Section 
2233 Belgrave Ave. 

Montreal, Que. H4A 2L9 
(Val Willis, President) 

Section francaise 

952 rue Cherrier, Montreal, Quebec 
(Abbe Robert Maisonneuve, president) 


New Brunswick Camping Association 
Box 5, Bath, New Brunswick 
(Rev. Philip Giberson, President) 

Nova Scotia Camping Association 
Box 3243S, Halifax, Nova Scotia B3J 3H5 
(Rev. David Boston, President) 

Newfoundland & Labrador 
Camping Association 
Box 4188, St. John's, Newfoundland 
(Barbara Taylor, President) 


REPRODUCTION, IN ANY FORM. OF 
MATERIAL IN "CANADIAN CAMPING" 
MUST HAVE WRITTEN PERMISSION OF 
THE CANADIAN CAMPING 
ASSOCIATION 


















NATIONAL GROCERS COMPANY LIMITED 

Wholesale Distributors 

FRUITS • VEGETABLES • BUTTER • CHEESE • EGGS 
FROZEN FOODS • GENERAL GROCERY PRODUCTS 

17 BRANCHES IN ONTARIO 

National Groceries Company, Limited, operate 17 distributing warehouses throughout the Province of 
Ontario, ready at all times to serve the camping trade with prompt deliveries. 

Warehouses located at: 


Bramalea 

"London 

"Owen Sound 

Chatham 

New Liskeard 

"Pembroke 

Cochrane 

"Niagara Falls 

"Peterborough 

Hamilton 

"Orillia 

"Sault Ste. Marie 

Kingston 

"Oshawa 

"Sudbury 

Kitchener 

"Ottawa 



HEAD OFFICE: 32 Front St. West, Toronto 

Cash and Carry Warehouses at points marked * 



PRINTED T-SHIRTS 

better prices, quality & service 


we also supply custom design 
& cobur services & a range of 
unique shirts for your gift shop 

(416) 367-0497 

640 QUEEN ST. W„ TORONTO 


Gumpert’s Food 
for Camps 

Complete Line of Trail Foods 
Bavarian Creme Desserts 
Ready to Use Puddings 
Fruit Drink Bases Punch Powders 
Spaghetti Sauce Canned Meat Items 
Salad Dressings 
French Toast Mix 
Biscuit Mix 
Soup Bases 


For information call or write: — 

S. GUMPERT CO. OF CANADA LTD. 
CIE S. GUMPERT DU CANADA LTEE 
31 Brock Ave., Toronto, Ont. M6K 2L1 
(416) 531-5758 





viewpoint /point de vue 


Nous sommes tous convaincus qu’une experience de camp de 
vacances est importante dans la vie d’un enfant. C’est pourquoi, a 
travers notre merveilleux pays depuis plus de 75 ans, les camps de 
jeunes se sont multiplies afin de permettre a plus d’enfants de 
profiter de la vie de Plein Air. 

Cependant beaucoup de camps, un peu sans le vouloir, ont cree 
pour les enfants qui y viennent des situations un peu artificielles. je 
m’explique. Par nos criteres de selection de campeurs, nous avons 
pris I’habitude de reunir dans nos camps des groupes d’enfants nor- 
maux et d’ecarter systematiquement les enfants qui presentaient 
certains problemes de comportement ou des handicaps physiques. 
Ces enfants etaient regroupes dans des camps specialises “a I’abri 
des dangers” du Plein Air ou ils ne courraient pas le risque de con* 
taminer les “bon enfants” ou d’etre ridiculises par eux! 

Toutefois, aujourd’hui, dans la mesure du possible, on a ten¬ 
dance a integrer les handicapes a des groupes normaux afin de mieux 
les preparer a la vie. je pense qu’au niveau des camps un effort 
semblable pourrait etre fait avec grand profit pour les handicapes, 
pour la majorite de nos campeurs et pour le camp lui-meme. Je vous 
raconte ici I’experience d’un jeune aveugle, Francois, qui a vecu au 
Camp Ecole Keno deux etes extraordinaires. 

C’etait a la requete d’un de nos moniteurs, professeur pour 
handicapes visuels, que finalement, apres bien des hesitations, nous 
avons accepte de recevoir Francois au camp, et de I’integrer totale- 
ment a la vie normale des autres enfants. Francois etait aveugle de 
naissance. A son premier sejour au camp il avait 12 ans. Tres intelli¬ 
gent, belle personnalite, entreprenant, enthousiaste il n’avait pas ete 
surprotege par sa famille. Son seul vrai handicap etait sa cecite. 

Le moniteur de Francois avait ete prevenu a I’avance et cette 
annee la nous avions au camp deux professeurs qui lui avaient 
enseigne au cours de I’annee. Cependant il avait ete decide qu’ils ne 
seraient ni I’un ni I’autre son moniteur. D’autre part ils avaient 
insiste pour que rien ne soit change a la vie normale du camp. 

Au de'but, les campeurs et le personnel se posaient bien des 
questions. Comment Francois va-t-il pouvoir suivre I’equipe? Pourra- 
t-il apprendre a nager, a faire du canot, de I’hebertisme, du tir-a-l’arc 
. . .? Pourra-t-il accompagner son equipe en expedition de canot- 
camping? Comment reussira-t-il a se situer face aux autres enfants? 
Nos deux experts disaient: “II n’y a pas de raison de s’inquieter!” 
Mais encore! 

Tout s’est deroule comme ils I’avaient predit. Francois, par sa 
debrouillardise, sa patience et sa personnalite a gagne rapidement 
I ’ami tie de ses copains de hutte. Sans le prendre en pi tie, tout 
bonnement, ils etaient prets a I’aider. Ils devinrent conscients qu’il 
comptait sur eux pour se familiariser avec le milieu physique du 
camp. Ils accepterent volontiers de lui rendre ce service. Ils en sont 
meme venus a accepter un certain leadership que Frangois exergait 
grace a ses idees. 

Au niveau des activites, il a fait de tout. La natation ne presentait 
pas tenement de problemes. A I’hebertisme il s’est tres bien de- 
brouille une fois familiarise avec la piste et les obstacles. Au tir-a-l’arc 
il a rapidement appris a placer ses fleches sur la cible grace a un 
grelot place au centre de la cible actionne par une ficelle qu’il 
touchait du pied au moment ou il etait pret a tirer. II est devenu 
excellent canotier et a meme passe avec succes toutes les epreuves 
de securite que cela implique. C’etait extraordinaire de le voir se 
familiariser avec un arbre, une plante ou une fleur par le toucher, 
I’odorat et le gouter. Meme sans voir, il percevait souvent mieux que 
nous les bruits, les choses, les sentiments des personnes . . . grace a 
I’acuite des quatre sens qu’il pouvait utiliser. 

II a participe aux expeditions de canot-camping. II avironnait 
bien mais ne pouvait pas conduire le canot pendant I’expedition. 
Une fois habitue a un site de camping nouveau, il aidait a monter la 
tente, a preparer le feu et meme les repas. II ne voulait pas etre traite 
differemment des autres et tenait a faire sa part. 

Un jour je me promenais avec lui le long de la plage. II etait du 
cote de I’eau et je m’etonnais de voir qu’il pouvait suivre la ligne 
d’eau sans se mouiller. Je lui ai demande comment il pouvait faire 


We all have the conviction that a camping experience is something 
important in the life of a child. This is why, throughout our marvel¬ 
ous country during the last 75 years, summer camps have become 
so numerous in order to allow young boys and girls to live worth¬ 
while outdoor experiences. 

In most of our camps, however, we have created, somewhat 
against our will, utopic living situations for the children who come 
to us. In fact, due to our selection processes, we have taken the habit 
of accepting in our camps normal children only, refusing systemati¬ 
cally children with behaviour problems or with physical handicaps. 
These children were grouped in specialized camps, sheltered from 
the “dangers of the outdoors”, where they could not contaminate 
“good children” or run the risk of being ridiculed by them. 

However, today, in so far as it is possible, experts tend to inte¬ 
grate the handicapped children into normal groups to better prepare 
them for their future life. I believe that our camps could make a 
greater effort along that line. It would be profitable to the handi¬ 
capped children, to very many of our so-called “normal” campers 
and even to our own camps! I will relate to you the experience of a 
blind boy, Frangois, who spent two summers at Camp Ecole Keno. 

It was at the request of a member of our staff, a teacher of blind 
and half-blind students, that, after many hesitations, we finally 
accepted Frangois at camp with the idea to integrate him totally 
into the normal life of the other children. Frangois was born blind. 
His first summer at camp he was 12 years old. He was very intelli¬ 
gent, had a great personality, had initiative and was enthusiastic. 
Luckily his family had not over-protected him. His only real handi¬ 
cap was blindness. 

Frangois’ counsellor had been briefed ahead of time by two 
professors who had taught Frangois that year and who were on the 
staff. Neither one of them, it had been decided, would be the boy’s 
counsellor. Moreover they insisted that nothing be changed in the 
camp program because of Frangois. 

As camp began that summer both campers and staff people had 
many questions on their mind. How is Frangois going to be able to 
follow his cabin group? How will he be able to learn swimming, 
canoeing, hebertisme, archery . . . ? Will he be able to go canoe 
tripping with his group? How will he manage to get along with his 
cabin group? . . . “There is no real cause to worry” said the two 
experts! And yet! 

Sure enough everything went as they had predicted. Frangois, 
thanks to his initiative, patience and personality, quickly won the 
friendship of his cabin mates. Not out of pity but quite naturally 
the boys were ready to help him. They realized he relied on them 
to get familiar with the physical setting of the camp and made them¬ 
selves available to him. They even accepted, after a while, a certain 
leadership that Frangois exercised because of the good ideas he 
could come up with. 

As for camp activities, he took part in all of them. Swimming 
was no real problem. On the hebertisme course he managed quite 
well once he had become familiar with the setting and with the 
obstacles. On the archery range he learned quickly to shoot his 
arrows within the target thanks to a small bell pinned in the centre 
of the target. Once ready to take aim he would touch a small rope 
with his foot. That activated the bell and the sound was his guide! 
He became a rather good canoeist and succeeded in all the security 
tests that this implies. It was extraordinary to see him get acquainted 
with a tree, a plant or a flower with his sense of touch, taste and 
smell. Even without his eyesight he could perceive often better than 
all of us noises, objects and people’s emotions because of the acute¬ 
ness of his senses! 

He took part in canoe trips. He used to paddle well but could 
not lead a canoe on a trip. Once familiar with a new camping site, 
he would help in setting up the tent, in getting the fire and meals 
ready. He didn’t want to be treated differently from others and 
insisted in doing his share of the chores. 

One day I was walking with him along the beach. He was very 
close to the water line and yet I was amazed that he never stepped 


5 


cela. Sa reponse fut aussi etonnante qu’inattendue: “Je sens I’eau!” 
C’est son odorat quj le guidait avec autant de precision que mois 
mes yeux! 

Pour Francois, I’experience du camp a ete une chose importante. 
En effet c’etait la premiere fois qu’il avait la chance de vivre des 
choses normalement reservees a des gens qui pouvaient voir. C’etait 
aussi la premiere fois qu’il vivait et partageait avec un groupe 
d’enfants normaux une periode de vie aussi intense et aussi reussie. 
C’etait la premiere fois qu’il avail chance de vraiment gouter au 
Plein Air. Ce fut pour lui la decouverte d’un monde nouveau! Enfin 
Francois a decouvert qu’avec un minimum d’aide, il pouvait fonc- 
tionner de fa^on interessante dans un milieu de vie normal. Comme 
stimulant pour lui, on n’aurait pu trouver mieux. 

Pour les autres campeurs aussi, I’experience a ete extremement 
profitable. En effet, ils ont appris au contact de Francois combien 
la vue est un don precieux que Ton prend souvent pour acquis. La 
presence de Francois les a aides egalement a faire plus attention aux 
besoins des autres et a se supporter mutuellcment. Collectivement, 
au niveau de I’equipe, les jeunes ont acceptc Francois et se sont 
sentis responsables de lui de sorte que I ’esprit de la hutte a ete 
excellent tout le long du sejour. 

Enfin je crois que le personnel et la direction du camp ont beau- 
coup appris au contact de Francois. Plusieurs prejuges et bien des 
craintes sont tombes. Les questions que nous nous posions tout ont 
ete resolues les unes apres les autres. D’autre part les responsables 
d’activites, a cause de la presence de Francois, ont tout ete obliges 
de repenser leurs methodes et leurs trues pedagogiques. La chose la 
plus importante que la presence de Francois nous a apprise est le role 
social efficace que le camp peut joucr dans I 'effort important qui se 
fait actuellement pour integrer dans des groupes et des situations de 
vie normale certains handicapes qui sont prets a le faire emotivement 
et intellectuellement. C’est pourquoi, depuis 1971 avec le concours 
de personnes chargees de I'education de jeunes avcugles et demi- 
voyants, nous avons continue chaquc ete de donner I’occasion a 8 
ou 10 de ces jeunes de vivre une veritable experience de vie de Plein 
Air, integres dans des groupes de 10 campeurs, I handicaps par 
equipe. 

Pour reussir, il y a certaines conditions a respecter. II faut 
maintenir la qualite du programme offert et non pas la diminuer 
pour I’adapter aux quelques handicapes que nous recevons. 
Deuxiememcnt il faut viser a integrer veritablement I’handicape a la 
vie du camp et evitcr la tentation de crecr pour lui un regime special 
de vie. Troisiemement il est bon d’avoir au sein du personnel une ou 
deux personnes qui connaissent bien ces enfants, leur handicap et 
leurs problemes particuliers. II n’est pas necessaire que ces personnes 
aient la charge immediate des handicapes. Elies peuvent travailler 
ailleurs dans le camp mais etre disponibles comme personnes- 
ressource pour aider de leurs conseils les membresdu personnel qui 
en eprouvent le besoin. Enfin il ne faut surement pas depasser la 
proportion de un handicape par hutte car le contraire compromet- 
trait le succes de I’integration. 

En terminant, je pose une question. Nous qui aimons les jeunes 
et qui depensons notre temps et nos energies pour permettre aux 
milliers d’enfants qui nous sont confies d'acquerir des valeurs sures, 
sommes-nous conscients des vastes besoins des jeunes handicapes 
qui pourraient probablement, avec notre aide, mieux reussir leur 
vie? POURRIONS-NOUS FAIRE PLUS POUR EUX? 

Paul Belanger s.m. f Directeur, Camp Ecole Keno 


in the water. I asked him how come. His answer was as astonishing 
as unexpected: “I can smell the water!” His sense of smell guided 
him with as much precision as my eyes guided me! 

Francois’ camping session was very important for him. It was 
the first time he had the chance to live a prolonged living experi¬ 
ence normally available only to people who can see. It was the first 
time he had lived and shared with normal children with so much 
success. It was the first time he had the chance to taste outdoor 
living in such a setting and it was for him like discovering a brand 
new world. Finally, it made him aware that with a minimum of 
help he was able to operate satisfactorily with normal people. 

For other campers also it was a profitable experience. Because of 
this blind child’s presence they learned how precious a gift sight is, 
a gift we too often take for granted. Especially in Francois’ cabin, 
the boys came to pay more attention to each other's needs and give 
more support to one another. Because of that, the cabin spirit 
developed beautifully. 

Finally I believe that the staff and the director learned a lot from 
that child. Many of their prejudices and fears melted away during 
Francois’ stay with us. The questions that were in our minds were 
answered one after the other. Staff people in charge of activities 
were obliged to review their methods and pedagogical approach and 
gained much from it. The most important thing we have learned 
from Francois’ presence is the efficient social role the camp can 
play to support the attempts made today to integrate in ordinary 
life situations the handicapped children who are ready for it, both 
emotionally and intellectually. Since 1971, with the help of people 
responsible for the education of blind and half-blind children, we 
have continued each summer to take as campers 8 to 10 of these 
children and integrated them in groups of 10 campers, one handi¬ 
capped child to a group. 

To succeed in such an endeavour some conditions have to be met. 
First of all, the quality of the camp program must be maintained, 
not watered down, to meet the needs of a few handicapped children 
who come to camp. Secondly, we must aim for a true integration of 
the handicapped child into the life of the camp and thus avoid the 
temptation to consider him or her as a second-class camper. Thirdly, 
it is a good thing to have on the staff one or two people who know 
these children well, who know their handicap and their particular 
problems. It is not necessary that these people be immediately 
responsible for the handicapped campers. They may work else¬ 
where in camp but be on hand as resource persons to help the 
counsellors when they meet with problems. Finally, a camp should 
not accept more than one such camper per cabin. Otherwise it 
would make true integration difficult. 

I feel like ending with a question! We who really care for chil¬ 
dren, we who devote time and energy to instil values in the heart of 
thousands of children trusted to our care, are we aware of the 
tremendous needs of the handicapped children who could probably 
make it better in life thanks to our help? COULD WE DO MORE 
FOR THEM? 



the ‘anytime.’ meal makers 


GIBBONS FOODS 


A complete range 

of food products for any meal or any snack. 

Include “CAMP RITE” rations 
in your next outing - full menu selection. 

GIBBONS FOODS LIMITED 

49 ADVANCE ROAD. TORONTO. ONTARIO M8Z 2S6 TEL. 239-1421 


6 





Basically, there are two types of fishermen. One is a serious and devoted type 
and the other is casual to the point of forgetting to bait his hook. These types 
come in a wide range of shapes and sizes but they all have one thing in common. 
They want to catch fish and they get a thrill out of it when they do. 

Basically, there are two types of fish. One is smart to the point of being almost 
uncatchable. The other is not so smart and it will take just about any type of bait 
offered at any time. By August, most of the dumb fish have been taken so if you 
plan to fish this month, you had better prepare yourself to match wits with some 
pretty smart fish. 

If you don’t mind spending money for lures and, if you know what types ot 
lures are sure-fire fish getters, you're all set. If you prefer live bait and you don t 
mind paying for it and if you have a box, can, pail or whatever in which to keep 
and transport your bait, you too are set. 

If, on the other hand, you think you are a resourceful and clever character like 
me and you hate the idea of paying good money for a can of worms or whatever 
and you think you can manage on your own, I have some ideas 1 would like to 
share. 

A professional worm picker can collect as many as 15,000 worms in one night! 
If you plan to go fishing, you can pick up a couple of dozen worms in no time 

simply by watering your lawn (or someone 
else's) at about four or five o’clock in the 
afternoon. At about ten o’clock that night, 
you simply go outside and, equipped with 
a flashlight, you pick up your worms. 

To keep worms without buying a special 
box and special worm feeder, line a shoe 
box with aluminum foil and place two 
inches of earth on the bottom. Put your 
worms in and cover them with newspaper 
which has been soaked in water and wrung 
out. Put in enough paper so that it is 
difficult to get the lid on, then punch 
small holes in the lid to allow ventilation. 

From an army surplus store, you can buy some inexpensive netting with 
which to make a simple net. This can be used to catch frogs and grasshoppers or 
any other creeping or crawling tidbit fish go crazy for. At night, a flashlight will 
spot frogs along a shoreline and it will freeze them in their tracks. It you're last, 
you can grab them with your hands, but you are liable to get soaked in the pro¬ 
cess so, if you have a net, you can just drop it over them or in front ol them. 
Crayfish can be taken with the net as well. Just turn over a tew rocks near shore 
and watch them skedaddle. They run right into the net. 

Grasshoppers and other insects are excellent baits, especially for trout and 
bass. The larger your net, the easier they are to catch. Of course, for grasshoppers 
you can also use a wool blanket in which they get the spikes on their back legs 
stuck. The secret of using these small offerings as bait is in the size of the hook 
you use. If you think your hook is too small, it's probably just right. 

Hunting up your own bait can be a load of fun as well as a money saving past- 
time but don't get too carried away with it. The object is to catch fish so, by all 
means, catch fish. 


Attach netting to a 
thin sapling. 

Bring tip around 
halfway and tie. 
Gather bottom 
and tie. 



w 

To give more “burning life” to your 
candles, give them a coat of shellac. 
This tends to retain the molten wax 
around the wick instead of its running 
down the side of the candle. 


You can prevent musty odours in suit¬ 
cases by keeping some unwrapped bars 
of soap in them. 


To locate a suspected gas leak in a pipe 
cover the pipe with soapy water. Bub¬ 
bles will reveal the seepage. 


To cope with the familiar film of scum 
or ‘skin’ that forms on the top of milk 
or cocoa when it boils, don’t skim it 
off, rather beat it into the beverage 
with a beater or spoon. In this way 
you will save nutritious milk solids 
and minerals. 

To soften up some cookies that have 
become too hard for easy eating, put 
several pieces of fresh bread in with 
the cookies, and in a few hours they 
will be soft enough to enjoy. 


Pails of water and sand and a fire ex¬ 
tinguisher near your fireplace are safety 
‘musts’ when you’re enjoying a blazing 
fire. 


When that stain in your teapot cannot 
be lifted by steel wool, try this surefire 
method. Mix a solution of water and 
denture powder and let soak overnight 
in the teapot. 


When any kind of wax—candle, crayon, 
paraffin-comes in contact with linens, 
rugs, furniture, wallpaper, etc., it can 
be easily removed by placing a brown 
paper bag over the spot and applying a 
hot iron (use discretion re heat of iron). 

Suggestions pour prolonger la vie d \une 
chandelle , se debarrasser des odeurs 
dans une valise , savoir quoi faire avec 
des patisseries qui out dura] du lait 
bouilli qui fait une \peau ] une theiere 
tachee, de la cire sur les meubles, !e 
tinge et les tapis. 

—Helen Stewart 



1 










THE BUYER'S GUIDE 

These companies have shown their support for camping by exhibiting at the 1975 O.C.A. Conference, 

Ryerson Polytechnical Institute, Toronto. 


M. BLACK WIPING PRODUCTS LTD. 

Disposable Cups, Plates, Washroom Supplies 
111 St. Regis Cres. South, Downsview, Ont. 

(416) 638-1335 

CANADIAN KEYES FIBRE CO. LTD. 

Disposable paper service (Chinet & Paprus) 

30 Iron Street, Rexdale, Ont. 

(416) 249-2207 

CHESTNUT CANOE COMPANY LIMITED 

Canoes, Paddles, Boats, Snowshoes and Accessories 
P.O. Box 185, Oromocto, N.B. 

(506) 454-4479 

COLLEGIATE SHIRTS 

Sport Outfitters, Crested T-shirts and Sweaters 
3196 Danforth Ave., Scarborough, Ont. 

(416) 698-6242 

CRESTEX LIMITED 

Crested Camping Apparel, Award Crests 
68 Broadview Ave., Toronto, Ont. M4M 2E6 
(416) 461-0731 

GIBBONS FOODS LIMITED 

Jelly, Puddings, Cake Mixes, Beverages 
49 Advance Rd., Toronto, Ont. M8Z 2S6 
(416) 239-1421 

S. GUMPERT CO. OF CANADA LTD. 

Specialty Foods — Camps and Backpacking 

31 Brock Ave., Toronto, Ont. M6K 2L1 
(416) 531-5758 

HICKESON LANGS SUPPLY COMPANY 

Serving camps throughout Southern Ontario 
500 Fenmar Drive, Weston, Ont. M9L 2V5 
(416) 789-4101 

HURON RECREATION 

Custom built Canoes and Paddles 
R.R. No. 5, Brussels, Ontario 
(519) 887-9342 

INSTITUTION FOOD SUPPLY (EASTERN) LTD. 

Soup bases. Instant Juices and Mixes 
P.O. Box 242, Thornhill, Ontario 
(416) 636-6675 

D.R. KELLER DIVERSIFIED LTD. 

Crazy David's T-shirts 

128 Peter St., Toronto, Ont. M5V 2G7 

(416) 863-1459 

KELLOGG-SALADA CANADA LTD. 

Convenient food products for your requirement 
1315 Finch Ave. West, Suite 308 
Downsview, Ont. M3J 2G6 
(416) 636-9296 

KMH MARINE 

Castro/ Oils and Cleaners, Windsurfer 
471 Jarvis St., Toronto, Ont. M4Y 2G8 
(416) 922-7766 

KRAFT FOODS LIMITED 

Complete Line Quality Food Service Products 
62 Bartor Rd., Weston, Ontario 
(416) 741-8450 


LEWISCRAFT 

Art, Craft, Needlework and Leather Supplies 
284-286 King St. W., Toronto, Ont. M5V 1J3 
(416) 363-5206 

MAITRE D'SERVICE FOODS 
(Division of General Foods) 

Coffee, Tang, Twist, and theJello Family 
344 Consumers Rd., Agincourt, Ontario 
(416) 491-6932 

MARSAN FOODS LIMITED 

Extensive range of Frozen Prepared Foods 
692 Richmond St. W., Toronto, Ont. M6J 1C6 
(416) 863-9966 

JOHN F. MARSHALL & COMPANY 

Hiking & Tripping Equipment, Freeze Dry Foods 
43 Victoria St., Toronto 1, Ontario 
(416) 366-4810 

NATIONAL GROCERS COMPANY LIMITED 
(Wholesale Food Distributors) 

Complete Food Service to the Camp Trade 
92 Barrie Road, Orillia, Ontario 
(705) 326-3591 

P.J.B. MARKETING & SALES LTD. 

Food Representatives 

269 East Ave., West Hill P.O., Ontario 

(416) 364-7455 

THE QUAKER OATS COMPANY OF CANADA 
LIMITED 

Cereal and Baking Mixes 

5385 Yonge St., Willowdale, Ont. M2N 5R7 

(416) 222-6568 

SANGSARA LTD. 

Whole Natural & Organic Foods 

682 George St. N., Peterborough, Ont. K9H 3S9 

(705) 745-3674 

E.D. SMITH & SONS LTD. 

Manufacturers of E.D. Smith brand products 
Winona, Ontario LOR 2L0 
(416) 643-1211 
Toronto No.: (416) 920-3633 

STAFFORD FOODS LIMITED 

A Complete Range of Food Products 
37 Hanna Ave., Toronto, Ont. M6K 1X1 
(416) 366-8021 

TALENS C.A.C. LTD. 

Art and Craft Supplies 

2100 Girouard Ave., Montreal 260, P.Q. 

Toronto No.: (416) 782-4744 

SIGNET FOOD PRODUCTS INC. 

Total Food Suppliers for Summer Camps 
5170 Dixie Rd., P.O. Box 1067, 

Station "B", Mississauga, Ont. L4Y 3W4 
(416) 625-9421 

VOYAGEUR CANOE COMPANY 

12 ft. to 25 ft. Canoes, Paddles, Lifevests 
King Street, Millbrook, Ontario 
(705) 932-2131 


An advertising supplement sponsored by O.C.A. 






Group Initiative Tasks 
for Camps 

—by Stan Talesnick 

Director y Camp Tawingo Outdoor Centre 

Lcs projets de groupe, tels qu’expliques dans cet article, 
peuvent etre modifies par les moniteurs en vue des activites 
de leur equipe. Garmons et filles de tout age peuvent partici- 
per a ces projets une fois adaptes. I Is sont non seulement 
interessants mais ils donnent au moniteur foccasion d’ob- 
server le comportement de tous ses campeurs dans des 
situations parfois difficiles. Ces projets de groupe profitent 
a tous ceux qui s’y impliquent pourvu que les responsables 
poursuivent des objectifs bien precis et soient conscients de 
Teffort physique exige par tel ou tel projet. 

Group initiative tasks have been successful activities for 
High School, and even Junior High School students for the 
past year at the Tawingo Outdoor Centre. So, it was decided 
to use them as part of our Staff Orientation Week at 
Summer Camp. 

Staff were divided into 12 groups, with 10 people in 
each group. Staff were placed so as to include a variety of 
ages, experiences, camp responsibilities, leadership abilities 
and personalities in each group. The aim was a straight¬ 
forward one: to provide an opportunity for staff to look 
at the functioning of themselves and others in a group, 
through involvement in unique decision-provoking tasks. 

The activity was planned for 2Vi hours in an afternoon. 
Each task lasted 15 minutes, followed by a very fast move 
to the next area. So each group attempted ten of the 
twelve tasks. Each task was explained and supervised by a 
member of staff who had been responsible for the entire 
organization of the task. 

*Tasks 

1) Beam - A log 6 inches in diameter is lashed between 
two “V” limbs of two trees, about 8 feet above ground. 

The object is to get everyone over the beam, including the 
last person, who cannot be helped from below. Variations— 
do it for time, or have one of the people feign unconscious¬ 
ness. 

2) Pole and Tire — Use a long (12-15 feet) thin pole, and 
a blown-up inner tube. Supporting the pole within ten 
degrees of vertical, the group must get the tire over the 
top of the log. Divide the ten people into two groups of 
five, each with a pole and tire. 

3) Electric Fence — Tie a rope or pole between trees, 
from 4-6 feet above ground. The rope represents the top 
of an electric fence of unfathomable voltage. The group 
must all get over the fence without anyone touching it. A 
pole may be supplied as an aid. 

4) Set up Tents - One tent for five people. Set the tent 
up in a suitable place, finding whatever equipment is not in 
the tent bag. No talking is permitted. This can also be 
attempted wearing blindfolds. 

5) Blindfold Walks - Done in pairs. One of each pair is 
blindfolded. The other leads him/her non-verbally, exposing 
him/her to many sound, smell, and feeling sensations. 
Change positions. Discuss methods of leading. 

*Most of the tasks are collected from the Colorado Outward Bound 
School, via Bob Woodburn of York University, or from the 
Canadian Outward Bound School. 



6) First Aid Situations - Using red dye, clean rags, and 
wood, in two groups of five. Each group chooses a victim 
and a situation and has the victim simulate suitable 
injuries. Then each group of four goes and treats the other 
group’s victim. 

7) Measure Distances - Measure heights of trees, or dis¬ 
tances on land or water, without any instruments. This is 
generally done by geometry or trigonometry. 

8) Diverging Bridge — Two logs spanning a creek bed, 
about four feet apart at near end, but diverging to about 
four feet five inches at the far end. Also four to seven 
boards, about four feet, 2 inches long. Using the boards, 
and without touching the logs, entire group must cross 
the creek. 

9) Tea in a Tree - One billy can for every two people, 
along with wire, water, about twelve feet of rope, one 
teabag, matches, a good tree. Make tea in a tree. 

10) Rock or Stump - Get the entire group on a rock or 
large stump. 

11) Load Canoe - Canoe anchored five feet from dock or 
shore, two logs, and rope. Get the entire group into the 
canoe, without touching the water. 

12) Maze — String or rope maze, about 10 inches off 
ground, in a treed area. Blindfold person, place him/her in 
centre of maze, and have him/her crawl out. 

Groups are then asked to discuss such questions as: 

1) Did your group function well? 

2) Did one or two people repeatedly assume leadership, 
or was the role passed around? 

3) Was everyone listened to? 

4) Did any group members behave ‘out of character’? 
If so, how? 

5) What other tasks might be included in such an 
activity? 

As a result of this program, some of these initiative tasks 
were modified by counsellors who set them up as cabin 
activities. Boys and girls of all ages participated in variations 
of these tasks. They proved to be not only enjoyable 
activities, but ones in which a counsellor could have the 
opportunity to observe all of his/her campers interacting 
in a somewhat stressful situation. The counsellor merely 
explained the problem, then observed, intervening only 
when some possibility of injury became imminent. 

As a conclusion, group initiative tasks are valuable for 
all involved, as long as those conducting the activities 
understand their own personal objectives, as well as the 
physical demands of the task at hand. 


9 


Photo courtesy Camp Otterdale 



Sailing is fun! When care is taken in planning, a successful 
and rewarding program can be set up at camp. The initial 
organization of camp sailing programs is often charged to a 
person with little or no experience in sailing. Suddenly 
there are all those complex decisions! It is with you in 
mind that this article is written. 

Initial Assessment 

(a) The Camp and Its Program: Assess your camp com¬ 
munity — age, length of stay, ratio of new campers to old, 
numbers qualified for boating activity participation, etc. 
What activities do you offer in the total program? How 
concentrated is camper involvement in specific activities? 
Will sailing play a major or minor role in the overall 
schedule? 

The recommended age for sailing is nine years and up. 
Younger children enjoy being in a sailboat but are generally 
more fascinated watching the wake than absorbing the 
mechanics of sailing. 

The camp session should be at least two weeks. Three or 
four week sessions are more preferable as time is allowed 
for the less proficient campers to be exposed to the basics 
of the sport. 

Programming will be dealt with in more detail later, but 
at this point, a decision must be made as to the general 
format you wish to offer training in the basic funda¬ 
mentals of sailing or a more encompassing course involving 
intermediate skills and racing. Consider, too, how many 
* campers you wish to involve in one activity period as this 
influences the type and number of craft required. 

(b) Geographic: Sailing can be enjoyed anywhere there is 
water and a breeze. The size of the body of water and the 
type of wind will dictate the type of boat to choose. 
Islands, points of land and cliffs, all make sailing more 
challenging. Anyone who has learned to sail on one of our 
northern lakes has been forced to be very aware of wind 
shifts. 

Take a critical look at your waterfront. The area must 
provide space for suitable docking facilities and a traffic- 
free area on the water allowing for movement to and from 
the sailing dock while under sail in all wind directions and 
conditions. It is unnerving for the novice sailor to have to 
negotiate his way through the canoeing program. 

Inspect the open area of your lake for obstacles such as 
rocks and deadheads. The draft of a sailboat can be as much 


organizing 
a sailing 
program 

—by Catherine Thomas 

Camp North way 

“Heave ho! gobs! let's haul up the sail , 

Cast off from the buoy and head for the gale. 

For it's over the lake , with the camp in our wake , 
Come about! and away we go .” 

as three to four feet with the centreboard down. Obviously, 
it is dangerous to have a board fly up after hitting an un¬ 
seen obstacle. Mark such obstacles with a plastic float if 
they cannot be removed. 

This brief assessment brings you now to the greatest 
quandary of all - that of selecting a boat. It is quite 
impossible to delve into the suitability of each class of boat 
for camp use. However, I do hope to provide you with 
some guidelines that I feel might assist you in making 
your decision. 

Selecting a Boat 

Anyone who is selecting a boat must do a great deal of 
preliminary research before transacting any agreement to 
purchase. 

(1) Familiarize yourself with as many classes and designs of 
boats as you can find that may be suitable for your program. 

(2) Take note of what is being sailed on your lake as a basic 
guide to size. 

(3) Talk with experienced sailors, organizers of junior pro¬ 
grams at yacht clubs, camp directors and sailing instructors, 
keeping in mind that each will probably present a varying 
opinion. 

(4) Enquire not only about prices (which are staggering) 
but about the availability of boats. Orders for boats must be 
placed six months to one year in advance of delivery. Also 
enquire as to maintenance requirements and the availability 
of replacement parts. Above all, be sure the boat you 
choose is CAMPER PROOF. Select a boat that fits your 
budget - price-wise and maintenance-wise. 

(5) The Canadian Yachting Association (CYA) administers 
a loan fund that has been set up to assist in the purchase of 
boats to be used for junior training, for the purpose of 
establishing a program or adding to a program not as a 
replacement fund. Camps holding CYA membership can be 
eligible for this program. The Canadian Yachting Associa¬ 
tion and its provincial associations can be very helpful in 
other aspects of setting up and carrying out your program. 
Throughout this article you will find references made as to 
the specific sendees they can provide. 

(6) Visit the library. 

(7) Boat Shows provide a good opportunity to compare 
various construction features of the myriad of boats that 
are on the market today. 

(8) Choose a class boat. Class Associations (addresses avail- 


10 





able from the CYA or your provincial sailing association), 
will advise prospective purchasers on the strengths and 
features of its boat, as well as provide a list of builders for 
your further investigation. 

(9) Don't choose the racing model of any boat. They are 
too light and are equipped with too many lines and gadgets 
which, besides requiring constant repair, totally confuse the 
novice sailor. A good sailor does not need sophisticated 
rigging on his boat to perform his skills well. 

(10) Stick to one class of boat. Mixing classes only con¬ 
fuses the campers and makes a racing program very compli¬ 
cated to run. 

(11) Prams: The introduction of prams into 
your program is well worth your considera¬ 
tion. Basically a one man boat, it can accom¬ 
modate two campers (or one camper and a 
very small instructor!!). Because of their 
design, even the youngest campers can 
quickly learn to rig and handle these 
small scows alone in a very short 
time. The Hat bottom makes them 
almost impossible to capsize ... a 
great safety factor. They can be 
sailed in a very restricted area. 

If your program is very 
unsophisticated, the 
hull of the pram 
can be fitted with 
oars and you have 
a dual purpose 

boat which can provide a lot of fun. Although available in 
Fiberglass, prams can be built of plywood at a great 
saving by your camp carpenter. Plans can be purchased 
from one of the various pram class associations. Wooden 
hulls do have their problems; however, because the design 
provides for few joins in construction, good maintenance 
practices and a handy 5-minute Epoxy kit can keep a pram 
in top condition without too much difficulty. Teenagers 
may find the pram to be rather dull if they are to do a great 
deal of sailing. Prams definitely are very useful in either a 
limited sailing program or when used as an introduction to 
basic skills before progressing to the larger, more demanding 
boats. I strongly feel that a good program should have both. 

(12) Used Boats can be found in very good condition. Be 
sure, however, that someone who knows boats checks it 
thoroughly. It must meet all of your specifications before 
you buy. 

What to Look for in Boat Construction 

HULL: Choose a boat which has a reasonably stable hull 
but don't be so overcome with this feature that you choose 
a dog! A planing hull is good and fun to sail. There should 
be adequate space for stowing required safety gear where it 
will not be an interference while sailing. There should be a 
minimum of working parts on the hull. All blocks, etc., 
must be bolted underneath with washers, and better still, 
through a block of wood. Be sure that the hull is construc¬ 
ted so that parts can be replaced with a minimum of effort. 
The bow and the underside of the camp boat should be 
built with additional Fiberglass reinforcement. A boom- 
vang, rub rails around the gunwhales and hiking straps are 
good features. Transom bailers should be large enough to be 
efficient, with flaps or plugs providing a good seal. All plugs 
should be attached in some fashion so that they will not go 
astray when not in their proper position. 


BUOYANCY: Buoyancy tanks must have a six-inch inspec¬ 
tion cover on the side to enable you to see if any water has 
collected. There will always be a certain amount of con¬ 
densation in any tank. Tanks should contain styrofoam. 
Additional styrofoam should be attached underneath the 
deck in the bow. 

RIGGING: The key things to look for are strength, uncom¬ 
plicated assembly and good fittings, which although being 
securely attached, can be replaced in the camp workshop. 
Masts should have internal flotation as this helps prevent a 
capsized boat from turning turtle. Check shrouds and stays 
for turnbuckles which allow for easy adjustment of tension. 
All lines should be made of dacron (nylon stretches when 
under tension) and run smoothly. Check that all blocks are 
of the proper size to accommodate the thickness of line 
used. Generally, plastic sheaves are used for rope, metal 
sheaves for wire. A mast which has internal halyards is to be 
avoided in the camp sailing program. 

SAILS: For camp use, sails should have extra reinforcement 
in the following areas of stress: the headboard, batten 
pockets and around all cringles. 

SPINNAKERS: Unless you are planning to develop a pro¬ 
gram involving intermediate skills, spinnakers can be over¬ 
looked. Small spinnakers can be fitted onto most boats at a 
later date with a few minor adjustments as long as the 
rigging is strong enough. 

MAINSHEET: Although there may be those who would 
disagree, the mainsail should be transom sheeted in a boat 
that is to be used for instructional purposes. Centre sheeting 
takes up valuable space in the cockpit and hinders move¬ 
ment. 

HELM: Pintles and gudgeons attaching the rudder to the 
transom of the boat should be arranged so that the rudder 
will not come out as can happen when you capsize. Re¬ 
member, metal rudders sink! Pop-up rudders are an advan¬ 
tage if the landing area is very shallow, otherwise they can 
be a nuisance as they are at times difficult for youngsters to 
manipulate. Extension tillers should be equipped with a 
universal joint and some device which will hold the exten¬ 
sion over the tiller when it is not in use. 

ACCESSORIES: CLEATS should be made of metal and be 
of a size suitable for cleating as well as for hanging coiled 
lines. Nylon cleats work well but will snap off in time. 
SHACKLES of the captive pin type are best. The separating 
shackle should have an eye in the end of the screw so that 
the two parts can be tied together. Be prepared to replace 
both shackles and cleats as the variety most commonly 
found on boats are not camper-proof! 

Staffing 

The activity head must be an experienced sailor, who is 
not only a patient and understanding teacher, but capable 
of handling general boat maintenance and organizing a pro¬ 
gram. A person who has attained the level of CYA Qualified 
Instructor has been assessed in these areas. As well, he has 
his Bronze Life Saving and holds a certificate from a recog¬ 
nized First Aid course. 

Keep in mind when staffing your program that sailing 
requires a great deal of preparatory training and on-going 
supervision. The number of assistant sailing instructors 
required will depend on the scope and number of campers 
involved in your program. Camp CIT’s who are interested 
in becoming sailing counsellors can be of great assistance. 

This article to be continued in the June/ 75 issue. 






JA ^CrlUe to 


Q.C.A.’s 

Mr.‘V an’ 


O.C.A.’s 

CbaRLes 

Pleujmart 



F.M. Van Wagner, known to his many friends as ‘Van’, 
was born in Hyde Park, N.Y. His childhood, spent on a 
farm, gave him a permanent and enthusiastic interest in 
outdoor living, and lured him into a career in physical 
education. 

Always interested in camping, ‘Van’ bent his efforts 
toward the establishment, in 1925, of Camp Nominingue, 
a boys’ camp situated on Petit Lac Nominingue in the 
Laurentians. In 1974, the camp celebrated its 50th season. 

Because of his intense love of the out-of-doors, ‘Van’, 
through his teaching and example, has been a major influ¬ 
ence to thousands of young people. No matter what forms 
organized camping has taken over the years, his philosophy 
has always been to live and teach the literal meaning of the 
word. As a result, camping-out and canoe tripping have been 
the basis for Camp Nominingue’s existence for 50 years. 
When the summer season is over, the most natural thing for 
him is to take another canoe trip. In winter, ‘Van’ switches 
his interest to ski-touring, an activity he has been extremely 
active in since the mid 1930’s. It is a little known fact that, 
next to the famous ‘Jackrabbit’ Johannsen, ‘Van’ has 
probably travelled more ski-miles in the Laurentians than 
anyone and, at the age of 80, is still an active skier. 

In the camping field ‘Van’ has also shared his knowledge 
and skills. As early as 1937, as promoter and charter mem¬ 
ber of the C.C.A., Mr. ‘Van’ organized the Quebec Camping 
Association, English Section, to improve the camping 
methods and to raise the standard of the camps throughout 
the Province of Quebec. He was also the first President of 
the Q.C.A., remained an active Executive Member for many 
years, and is now an Honorary Member. 

In 1955 he formulated and first introduced a Manual of 
Standards for children’s summer camps in the Province of 
Quebec. He was President of the Canadian Camping Associ¬ 
ation with Office in Montreal from 1958 to 1961. On the 
occasion of Canada’s Centenary, the Centennial Medal was 
conferred on Mr. ‘Van’ in recognition of valuable service to 
camping and the nation. In 1968 the Provincial Board of 
the Quebec Camping Association, English and French 
Sections, presented Mr. ‘Van’ with an Award of Merit, in 
recognition of devoted service to youth and camping in the 
Province of Quebec. 

At the C.C.A. Annual Meeting in October 1974 Mr. ‘Van’ 
was made an Honorary Member of the C.C.A. 

-Frances M. Kelly 


One of the founders of the Canadian Camping Associa¬ 
tion, Charles Plewman continues to maintain a keen interest 
in the activities and programmes of the Association. 

Charles first attended camp, as a camper, in 1903. In 
1909 he operated his first short-term camp, followed by the 
Directorship of Camp On-Da-Da-Waks from 1913 to 1916. 
For the next three years he directed Camp Stephens, and 
continued to lead a variety of Inter-Church Camps until he 
opened his own boys’ camp, Kilcoo, in 1932, which he 
owned until 1955. 

During these years he helped found the Ontario Camp¬ 
ing Association, becoming its President in 1945. He and 
some of his associates began publishing a “Camp Bulletin” 

. . . the forerunner of “Canadian Camping”. 

Charles Plewman’s driving belief was one of “People” . . . 
and not tilings. He always had that certain ‘magic’ which 
created in people the desire to give — to give more of them¬ 
selves than even they thought possible. He was a listener . . . 
he was approachable . . . and he was flexible, confident in a 
foundation built on high values and ideals. 

Charles Plewman led and influenced people - but he 
wouldn’t let anyone be a carbon copy ... or a Charles 
Plewman Jr. . . . they had to be themselves! 

On his retirement from Kilcoo, Charles continued to 
maintain a keen interest in young people ... he talked with 
them ... he learned more about them . . . and as a result he 
still continues to give. Around a campfire, or in a cabin, he 
can still enthrall a young group of boys with his stories of 
the past, and his hopes for them for the future. He is not 
content to let the world pass him by . . . he has stayed in it! 

In recognition of his sterling leadership and very rich 
contribution to the field of Canadian Camping, Charles, an 
Honorary Life Associate of the O.C.A., was made an 
Honorary Member of the Canadian Camping Association at 
its Annual Meeting in October 1974, in Montreal. 

-John R. Latimer 

Editor's Note: It is hoped that Mr. Plewman’s reply upon the 
receival of his C.C.A. Honorary Award will be printed in a future 
issue. 


12 





ALL CAMPER'S CLOTHING AND 
BELONGINGS 

should be marked for easy identification 
and to avoid loss. 

CAMP LINEN AND EQUIPMENT, TOO, 
should be marked to avoid confusion 
and loss. 

NAMES OR NUMBERS CAN BE 
SUPPLIED. 

Order CASH'S NAME TAPES from 
department stores and other dealers — 
or direct from 

CASH'S 

CANADA LABELS LIMITED 

BOX 1 239, PETERBOROUGH, 
ONTARIO K9J 7H5 

PRINTED NAME PRICES 

6 doz. $3.20 9 doz. $3.65 

12 doz. $4.50 24 doz. $5.50 

No C.O.D.s. Please mail cheque or 
money order. 

(Ontario Residents add 7% retail sales tax) 


INTRODUCTORY OFFER 

AICRT: 

aquatic 

/upervi/ion 

inaction 



■ A NEW BOOK for aquatic admini¬ 
strators, lifeguards, summer camps 
and recreation leaders. 

■ Swimming pool, waterfront and 
beach operation. 

■ Techniques of lifeguarding, rescue 
methods and first aid. 

■ Public education, P.R., legislation, 
off-season use, etc. 

■ Emphasis is on enjoyment in 
leisure aquatic activities. 

■ Contains over 120 diagrams and 
photographs. 

■ Disponible en franpais decembre '74 

Order from: 

Royal Life Saving Society Canada 
550 Church Street 
TORONTO, Ont. M4Y 2E1 

Cost: $5.95 plus 65d Mailing Charge. 




WANTED - CAMP DIRECTOR 

Camp Can-Ta-Ka-Ye on L. Diefenbaker, 
Sask. operated by Sask. Council Girl 
Guides of Canada — To direct guide com¬ 
pany, Brownie holidays and special guide 
camps from June 28 to August 30. 
Approximately 10 weeks employment. 
Administrative and camping experience 
essential. Knowledge of guiding an asset. 
Salary negotiable. 

Apply to: Mrs. E.C. Wright 

502 - 28th St. W., 
Saskatoon, Sask. 


TREEHOUSES 

We are doing a book on treehouses and 
would greatly appreciate information 
from anywhere in North America. 

M. Pain 

58 Woodlawn Ave. W., Toronto, Ont. 
M4V 1G7 


FOR SALE 

Nordberg dinghy, fibreglass, aluminum 
mast and dacron sails, good condition — 
$700.00 or best offer. 

Contact C. Labbett, 3 Pine Forest Rd. 
Toronto, Ont. M4N 3E6 
Phone (416) 489-1032 


FOR SALE 

Above grade OXIGEST Sewage treat¬ 
ment plant complete with 500 gallons 
chlorinator tank and hypochlorinator. 

For further information contact: 

J.M. Lapointe, Mackay Centre for Deaf 
and Crippled Children 
Telephone (514) 482-0500 


CANADIAN CAMPING 
MAGAZINE 

Normal Subscription Rates: 

$ 5.00 for one year 
$12.00 for three years 

SPECIAL OFFER 

Group Subscriptions for Member Camps 
and Camp Associates 

Five copies of each issue 

to a single address for only $20.00 a year 

Please complete section below and send 
your cheque to: 

Canadian Camping Magazine 
Suite 203, 102 Eglinton Ave. E. 
Toronto, Ont. M4P 1E1, Canada 


Name:_ 

Address: 

City: _ 

Prov. _ 

Check one 
□ 1 year 


□ 3 


_ Postal Code- 

I—.Group 

years I_I Subscription 



ON THE BUSES 


The highlight of the February 1974 
National Standards Workshop was 
Canadian Day Camping. Meeting at 
Camp Richildaca in Kettleby, Ontario, 
the delegates attempted to develop 
desirable camping practices, assist 
provinces in developing and strength¬ 
ening their own standards, and estab¬ 
lish a national position on issues related 
to camping standards. 

Day Camping was defined as an ex¬ 
perience in group living in a natural 
environment. It is a sustained experi¬ 
ence carried on during the daytime 
under the supervision of trained leader¬ 
ship. 

In response to concern for a low 
standard of supervision in some govern¬ 
ment-funded day camps, letters were 
sent to government project officers 
requesting them to consult with the 
Standards Committees of provincial 
camping associations before approving 
outdoor recreation projects. 

It is hoped that the compilation of 
Day Camping Standards, circulated by 
the C.C.A. will assist provincial associ¬ 
ations in drawing up their own stand¬ 
ards and they will submit them to 
John Hasell, Chairman of the National 
Standards Committee. 

To Acquire Staff— Because most staff 
come from local areas, day camp ad¬ 
ministrators can organize a meeting of 
young people interested in applying 
for a job. At the meeting the camp 
philosophy, its program and general 
job descriptions and salaries can be 
explained and people who are (still) 
interested can be encouraged to sign 
up for a personal interview concen¬ 
trating on the applicant. 

Program Market— Each counsellor is 
given a weekly budget of chips (or 
money) and can bargain for key 
specialty facilities at the best times. 
Counsellors bid for such facilities as 
the arts and crafts hut, cookout sup¬ 
plies, swimming and hiking equipment. 
Groups with strong preferences for 
certain activities are accommodated. 
It can be fun too! 

Short of Fire Wood?-Many larger 
towns and cities have public or private 
‘tree expert’ firms which are often will¬ 
ing (or happy) to drop off kindling 
(branches etc.) at your camp site rather 
than drive further to a dump site. 
Visitor from Outer Space— For special 
days or all day programmes, day camps 

Cont'd. on page 14 


13 












































What is CCA? What is camping? Geneva Park 
’75! What was Geneva Park '75? To me it 
can be summed up in one word! PEOPLE! 
People willing to share, give, risk, adventure, 
communicate and just be themselves. Being 
quite new to CCA, but old in the business, 
this had to be the greatest experience ever! 
Don Khat generated an excitement and feel¬ 
ing amongst people that bred something 
special. Togetherness! And what else is 
camping all about! 

For me, personally, I gained many in¬ 
sights which 1 know will be beneficial in my 
part in “camping for people". 

CCA and the Conference organizers are 
to be commended for the job done. Let’s 
do it again! 

-Mrs. Friendly Manitoba, Shanley Parkinson 

I would like to share just a few lines con¬ 
cerning the Camp Directors’ Workshop at 
Geneva Park. 1 wish I had had an opportunity 
twenty years ago to get in on some of the 
lectures and discussions we had there. Many 
of the mistakes in recruiting staff in these 
twenty years never would have been made. 

My greatest impressions were not perhaps 
from the actual study sessions themselves 
but from the discussions that they led into 
later on. The friendly people we meet at 
camping conferences is a rare treat. The 
‘coast to coast' atmosphere is great. 

Geneva Park gave direction to New 
Brunswick delegates. I sat in on one camp’s 
Board of Directors’ meeting a few weeks 
after Geneva Park and saw one delegate 
discuss insurance problems with a new out¬ 
look. Geneva Park had helped this camp a 
great deal. 

I would like to see more national con¬ 
ferences such as this one. 

-Philip A. Giberson, New Brunswick 

Following the recent Camp Directors’ Lead¬ 
ership Conference at Geneva Park, I have 
spoken with many of Quebec’s delegation, 
whose responses have ranged from “great!" 
to “super!". It appears that the last two 
Directors’ Seminars held at Geneva Park 
have been the most enthusiastically received 
in recent years. 

The accommodations were excellent, the 
resource people extremely helpful, the op¬ 
portunity of idea-sharing with Directors 
from coast-to-coast invaluable, and the 
atmosphere was one of enthusiasm and 
“joie de vivre". 

An indication of our endorsement of 
this particular endeavour lies in the fact that 
the Keynote Speaker, Dr. Don Ehat, has 
been secured for the Q.C.A. Director and 
Senior Staff Seminar to be held March 14-16 
in Montreal. 

-Wilfred A. Jackson, Quebec 

As this is only my third year as a camp 
director, I was really excited about getting 
the opportunity to attend the conference. 
Also, having spent 7 years in Chatham. 
Ontario, it seemed like a homecoming to be 
going out east again even though my heart 
is in the west. Geneva Park is a beautiful 
spot and its facilities were fantastic. 


The sessions I attended: staff training, 
evaluation program, camp philosophy, etc. 
were all quite interesting and informative. 
I was amazed at the difference between the 
camps we have out west and some of your 
large private camps out east. As it turned 
out, I was always in a group discussion with 
these large camps, yet was able to relate 
their experiences and problems to my own 
much smaller camp. 

1 suppose the thing that impressed me 
the most was meeting people like yourself 
who have been so involved in camping over 
the years. This was invaluable as I have taken 
on the responsibility of organizing our next 
conference which will be run in conjunction 
with the CCA Annual Meeting in Banff 
in 1976. 

I must also say how much 1 enjoyed the 
Quebec delegation and their presentation on 
Saturday night. What great ambassadors of 
Quebec they were! 

-Don Vosburgh , Alberta 

It was indeed a pleasure for all of us to 
represent Nova Scotia at the Camp Directors’ 
Leadership Conference at Geneva Park in 
January. It is always a treat for me to meet 
people from across the country who are 
striving for the same goal the betterment 
of youth camping. 

Hie conference itself was great and I was 
extremely intrigued by the friendliness ex¬ 
tended by those who attended. 

The sessions were very interesting and 
educational. Don Ehat sure knows his stuff! 
I felt that this area of the conference was 
extremely well structured. The small groups 
were beneficial for discussion and the tests 
and games that we experimented with were 
very interesting. 

The rest of Nova Scotia’s delegates agree 
with me that it was indeed a fantastic con¬ 
ference. I commend those members of the 
Conference Committee and C.C.A. for the 
excellent job in organizing such a venture. 
Keep up the good work, C.C.A.! Happy 
camping. Canada, in 1975! 

-Murray Wickwire, Nova Scotia 

The “menu" was rich with opportunities. 
First of all the double streaming of the con¬ 
ference allowed for a choice of practical 
subject matter or a very stimulating leader¬ 
ship development study. Then there was the 
give-get sessions which made the opportunity 
to share ideas etc. enough to keep every 
Director busy every waking moment. To top 
it off the “Resource Room" and the films 
etc. gave the selection of choices which was 
ideal. 

Everywhere the excellent organization 
and hard work of the organizing committee 
was most evident. I know I speak for every¬ 
one when I say the menu was rich, the diet 
of material filling and we came away satis¬ 
fied. 

Thanks for a great conference. 

Doug McEwen, Ontario 

The Canadian Camping Leadership Seminar, 
held during January, was one of the best 
conferences I have ever attended. Usually 
one attends a conference because of the 
“shop talk" one can have with his colleagues; 
too often the resource people are very 
secondary, or “off base", or apt to leave one 
“cold". But Don Ehat generated an excite¬ 
ment and feeling among the participants so 
that the information transmitted could easily 
be brought home and will be successfully 
used in any setting with all people - parents, 
campers, staff and agency personnel. Be¬ 
cause of the material and the way it was 
presented, delegates developed a closeness 
and rapport which I have never experienced 
at a CCA conference before. 


The organizers of the Conference and, 
especially the resource leader, Don Ehat, 
deserve a sound round of applause and our 
appreciation, for an extremely well planned 
and executed Conference. Let’s have more 
of this type! 

-Arnie Cohen, Manitoba 

Piled in a car - friendly people - old friends 

- warmth - cold air no snow - January 
about Toronto - driving North - we stop 
for balloons, water pistols, to cash a cheque 

- snow now across the fields - a minor 
turn off through the trees - Geneva Park. 

Comfortable rooms - many more friends 

some new faces - out on skiis the sun- 
a tooth mark etched into an old glass door - 
the give-get inquisition - Channels A and 
B Our discussion group the conference 
underway. 

A hierarchy of needs - someone’s win¬ 
dow - thumbs up - Maslow and Marlowe - 
the working of groups survival to affluence 

finding oneself appreciating others - 
along the lake - water-iced skiis an excel¬ 
lent lunch - understanding and doubt - 
filling in forms - forming opinions learn¬ 
ing new ways - realizing old insights - 
shaken a bit. 

Pink cards and blue - bells ring hooters 
sound and laughter as well - A camp quiz - 
a question of what - who knows some 
are in French who knows? 

Discussions - digging deep some use¬ 
ful tools - people problems problems - 
people. 

An evening of song a night of dancing 
a truly Canadian happening French and 
English back and forth matching each 
other Frere Jacques Row the boat - 
square dance Carnival. 

What more to say - a great experience 
shared. 

-John Hasell, British Columbia 

Quelques mots pour vous parler du seminar 
sur le leadership organise par 1'Association 
des Camps du Canada et qui aeu lieu a la mi- 
janvicr a Geneva Park, au nord de Toronto. 

Cette session s’est deroulee a un rythme 
intensif et fut tres enrichissante pour nous. 
Les participants (200 environ), integres dans 
deux groupes differents, avaient la chance 
d’exprimer davantage au niveau des ateliers, 
des sous-groupes de travail et des plenieres. 

Notre grouse a etc anime par monsieur 
Don Ehat, americain et specialiste en rela¬ 
tions humaines. Je retiens en particular sa 
conception du cadre dans lcquel peut s’exer- 
cer le leadership et certains concepts relies 
a son application. 

La delegation de Quebec avait ete inan- 
datee pour organiser une soiree “canadienne" 
et grace a la participation de tout le inonde, 
cette activite remporta un tres grand succes. 

-Colette Marier, Quebec 


On the Buses (cont’d) 

close to cities may be able to persuade 
local radio stations to send their traffic 
helicopter(s), complete with customed 
pilot, to the camp site. They are 
reluctant, however, to let you put a 
costume on the helicopter itself! 

—Kenneth Robinson 

Editor's Note: The OCA Day Camping Com¬ 
mittee, with Kenneth Robinson as the maga¬ 
zine liaison, has accepted the responsibility 
for the production of this new column. “On 
the Buses" will be a column of hints of par¬ 
ticular interest to day camping leaders. 
Kenneth and the Committee need news and 
views from day camping people across 
Canada so the Editor welcomes your sub¬ 
missions for inclusion in future editions. 


14 





Environmental Awareness 
at Camp 


—by Dr. John J. Kirk 

Director and Professor of Environmental Studies 
Montclair State College , New jersey School of Conservation 


Le Dr. John Kirk ecrit que le camp de vacances pour enfants 
pent devenir un laboratoire unique pour Vapprentissage des 
concepts et des idees necessaires pour survivre dans un 
monde oil l'indifference de Vhomme, son avidite et son 
ingorance menacent sa survie elle-meme! Pour montrer a 
survivre , la vie de camp doit etre pertinente , significative , 
semee de defis , vivante et plaisante. C'esta lafois la vocation 
et le defi du camp de vacances de developper dans le coeur 
de nos campeurs des attitudes et des valeurs qui vont les 
aiguillonner , line fois retournes chez eux, a travailler a la 
realisation du reve que nous partageons tout d'un monde 
meilleur et plus riche pour toute Vhumanite. 

In checking the history of the organized camping move¬ 
ment, one will discover that the first recorded organized 
children’s summer camp occurred in 1861 at Milford-on- 
the-Sound in the state of Connecticut in the United States. 
The director of the camp was Mr. Fred Gunn, Headmaster 
of the Gunnery School. In response to requests from his 
students to be given the opportunity to live like soldiers, 
Mr. Gunn decided to move the entire student body from 
the school grounds to the camping site for a two-week 
experience. Since that rather humble beginning, organized 
camping has experienced phenomenal growth in Canada 
and the United States. Approximately ten million children 
will be involved in a camping experience in Canadian and 
American camps during the summer of 1975. 

The irony of this is that, as wonderful as it is to reflect 
on the significant growth that has taken place in a little 
over a hundred years, there is also an unfortunate aspect to 
consider. The children who will attend camps in 1975 for 
the most part will be denied the fullness of the experience 
that was provided by Mr. Fred Gunn in 1861. As organized 
camping has grown down through the decades, the move¬ 
ment has gradually moved away from the original purpose 
and from that which is the most unique aspect of a camp¬ 
ing experience, namely, learning to live in a natural environ¬ 
ment. Many children attend organized camps today, and in 
the four-, six-, or eight-week experience may never have the 
thrill of cooking a meal over an open fire, may never have 
the challenge of pitching a tent or the enjoyment of sleeping 
under the stars. 

During the last quarter of a century, many camp opera¬ 
tors have evolved programs where the natural environment 
is used as a theatrical backdrop before which their inter¬ 
pretation of a camping experience is portrayed. This 
experience will include the teaching of tennis, horseback 
riding, golf, dramatics, arts and crafts, group singing, swim¬ 
ming, archery and riflery to cite only a few of the program 
offerings. Now let it be pointed out that the teaching of 
these activities can prove most valuable to a child, and yet 
they can all be taught, perhaps in even a more proficient 


manner, in a setting other than a camp setting. A child does 
not need to attend a camp to learn to play tennis or ride a 
horse or learn any of the skills previously mentioned. In 
addition to the acquisition of skills, a camp director may 
encourage parents to send their children to camp because of 
the group living experience or because the experience may 
prove to be beneficial to the child's health. The teaching of 
skills, the social values and physical values are the major 
reasons that the majority of camp directors use in promot¬ 
ing camp attendance. No one could fault any one of these 
“selling points”, and yet this is not what makes camping 
unique for a child. 

The one unique feature of the summer camp that 
separates it from schools, settlement houses and programs 
conducted by other youth organizations is that it takes 
place in a natural environment. Unless a camp provides 
opportunities for the child to enrich his awareness of the 
natural world, the program is inadequate and is, in fact, not 
a camp program at all. This does not mean to imply that 
the old nature study programs, which used to appear in 
camps some ten to fifteen years ago, should be resurrected. 
Most of them were discarded by the director as a charitable 
act on behalf of the campers. Under the guise of nature 
study, campers at one time were required to learn the names 
of ten trees, fifteen flowers, six birds and three animals; and 
for this monumental achievement they would receive the 
“looney bird award” or some such item of similar value. 
Nature study programs of the past focused on taxonomy 
identification and classification, which can be extremely 
boring and uninteresting. What we need today is a utiliza¬ 
tion of the ecological approach to the teaching of the 
natural sciences, stressing the interaction, interrelationships 
and interdependence of all living things one upon the other. 

The children’s summer camp has the potential of being 
the most unique laboratory for learning the concepts and 
ideas necessary to survive in a world where man’s indiffer- 
ence^reed and ignorance threaten his actual survival. 

Children should be given the opportunity to develop a 
sense of kinship, a realization that all life is interrelated, 
and that if any life form is destroyed or mutated in any 
way, then the quality of all living things is proportionately 
diminished. This could be referred to as the development 
of a reverence for life, where children are given a first-hand 
opportunity to sec and feel the important role our forest 
lands, woodlands and open space play in our lives, and the 
fact that we as a species could not continue to endure on 
this planet if it were not for these same forest lands and 
woodlands. 

The organized camping movement, for the most part, 
has tended to retreat from the reality of a deteriorating and 
crumbling world, and alienate and insulate the camping 


15 





staff and children from reality. Camping people will sit 
around the campfires, sing their quaint little songs and 
toast their marshmallows while the world collapses around 
them. This unrealistic approach, if allowed to continue, 
may well cause the camping movement to become an 
endangered species and ultimately to become extinct. 

If camping is to survive, it must be relevant, it must be 
meaningful, it must be challenging, it must be exciting and 
it must be fun. A skills-oriented program, after a season or 
two, becomes boring. A summer camp program that stresses 
the exploration of the natural world with the idea of help¬ 
ing the camper to better understand his or her role in that 
world can never become boring and can never become 
obsolete. Today’s young people are extremely concerned 
with the errors and mistakes of previous generations that 
have tended to desecrate and destroy the natural beauty 
which is found in such abundance on this beautiful planet. 
Yet, if the exploitation is allowed to continue, the beauty 
will soon be lost and life will become as drab and dismal as 


the scars left by the strip miner or the slime caused by the 
oil spills. 

Let all of us who have the opportunity and the privilege 
to work with children in organized camp settings pause and 
reflect on where we are and where we are going. Let us all 
evaluate our programs and make the necessary modifica¬ 
tions to provide children with an opportunity to discover 
the role natural areas play as part of a life support system; 
let us include in our programs experiences that will help the 
child to discover the truth and beauty of nature; let us give 
them the knowledge and the skills that will enable them to 
be better citizens; let us join forces to do all that is possible 
in developing an environmental sensitivity and awareness in 
the minds and hearts of the children we are privileged to 
serve. The organized summer camp has this unique oppor¬ 
tunity and great challenge to develop attitudes and values 
in our campers that will motivate them, upon returning to 
the community, to work toward the realization of the 
dream that we all share for a richer life and a better world 
for all mankind. ■ 


Camping in B.C. 


Like many other provinces in Canada, camping in B.C. 
is flexing its tentacles into many new areas of development 
and program. 

Many of our camps have gone beyond the traditional 
two summer month operation and are enjoying the challenge 
of new avenues to serve youth in the out-of-doors. 

In 1974 the B.C.C.A. Executive undertook a study of 
where was camping really at and who are we serving! Forty- 
three camps returned their material with some interesting 
feedback. Over 20,000 children were registered in these 
camps - 2,100 staff were employed in these camps 
$400,000 was spent on salaries - $275,000 was spent on 
food. 

Twenty-two camps reported increasing registration 
seventeen remained constant, and only four reported 
decreasing registration. 

B.C. has a small camping membership compared to 
Ontario and Quebec, but these figures indicate a very posi¬ 
tive growth pattern for camping in B.C. 

At the beginning of 1974 the membership of the B.C.C.A. 
implemented, following our Annual Meeting, a motion that 
only Accredited Camps could join the B.C.C.A. All other 
camps could have an individual join, but the camp would 
not be a member until accreditation. 

Coupled with this decision, the B.C.C.A. Executive 
designed and carried out a visitation team training program 
which was very successful and was able to meet the needs 
of the Member Camps in B.C. who required visitations. 

It is not the intention of the B.C.C.A. to exclude any 
camp from being part of the Association, but rather placing 
a set of Minimum Standards for these camps to attain before 
we include them in our Directory and support their camp 
operations. 

We are particularly pleased that many new faces are 
coming forward, bringing their expertise, enthusiasm and 
skills in giving the B.C.C.A. more depth and support. 


—by Grant McKeen 

Past-President , B.C. Camping Association 

Our committees are constantly exploring and discussing 
new and better ways to assist the Membership including our 
relationship to the C.C.A. 

The B.C.C.A. has been fortunate in having the calibre 
of leadership input by John Hasell, Rick Ryan and Lome 
Brown to the C.C.A. as we endeavour to strengthen our 
relationship with our national body. 

During 1974 we have seen the expansion of school 
camping in B.C. There is a very active Outdoor Education 
Committee in B.C. with many camp directors sitting on 
tliis committee and providing many positive spin-offs to the 
B.C.C.A. However, those camps involved in school camping 
are asking themselves if they are developing a dependency 
on school camping to meet their budgets. What alternatives 
could there be if school camping does not carry on? How 
can we as camp directors share our experiences in dealing 
with the school camp program? How can we presently 
co-operate and assist each other? Finally, how do we pro¬ 
mote the use of our facilities for programs such as school 
camping? 

We have developed a booklet “Campsites Available for 
School Camping" for school districts which hopefully will 
initiate discussions with them for long range planning. 

The B.C.C.A. has divided the province into four key 
areas for service: Interior, Okanagan Valley and Kootenays, 
Island, and Lower Mainland. In each area there is an area 
director who is beginning to bring those camps in that 
designated area together to share common problems and 
plan programs for that area. It is hoped that through this 
process we will build a stronger camping movement and, 
secondly, be able to respond more efficiently to those 
areas’ needs as they arise. 

Our constitution has recently been revised; our monthly 
Newsletter has taken on a new format; the Executive Com¬ 
mittee is well organized under the leadership of our 
President, Rick Ryan, and we all look forward to an 
exciting year in camping in B.C. 


16 



i 


#1 CAMPING PUBLICATIONS 

- publications seruice, CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOaATION 


LEADERSHIPTRAINING 

•CAMP COUNSELLOR'S HANDBOOK. Blackstock & Latimer. 

— 1975 publication. New, up-to-date! 128 p. $4.95 

•THE CAMP COUNSELLOR'S BOOK. Northway & Lowes. 

— a popular aid to counsellors, edited by two well-known Canadian 

camp directors. 146 p. $1.95 

CAMP COUNSELLOR'S MANUAL. Ledlie & Holbein. 

— what a counsellor must know. 128 p. $2.25 

CAMP MANAGEMENT 

A CAMP DIRECTOR TRAINS HIS OWN STAFF. Hammett. 

— suggestions for in-camp and pre-camp training. 

32 p. $0.75 

CAMP STAFF JOB DESCRIPTIONS. 20 p. $0.50 

CAMPCRAFT 

CAMPCRAFT INSTRUCTORS' MANUAL. 

— for a successful campcraft program for campers of ALL ages 

and abilities. 112p. $2.50 

WOODCRAFT AND CAMPING. "Nessmuk". 101 p. $1.50 


COUNSELLOR'S GUIDE TO CAMP SINGING. Tolbitt. 

44 p. $1.95 

COOKING 

'COOKERY FOR KIDS, KAMP TV KICKS. Stewart. 

— meal planning for out-trips, in-camp recipes. 2 one-week menus 

for camp included. 81 p. $3.50 

OLD-FASHIONED DUTCH OVEN COOKBOOK. Holm. 

106 p. $3.50 

NATURE 

ACCLIMATIZATION. Van Matre. 

— a sensory and conceptual approach to ecological involvement. 

Sharing, sensing, awakening, understanding! 138 p. $3.25 

ACCLIMATIZING. Van Matre. 

— a personal and reflective approach to a natural relationship. A 

larger program than ACCLIMATIZATION — special walks and 
talks, trips and trails. 225 p. $3.95 

HEALTH AND SAFETY 

THE CAMP PHYSICIAN'S MANUAL. Thomas. 

192 p. $9.00 


CHURCH CAMPING 

CHURCH CAMPING. Davis. 

— an administrative manual for committees, sponsors and directors. 

140 p. $3.25 


MISCELLANEOUS 

•ONCE THERE WAS A CAMPER. Poems by Mary S. Edgar. 

48 p. $1.75 


CAMPING TOGETHER AS CHRISTIANS. Ensign. 

— excellent resource book for Protestant church camps (and others 


in spiritual development of their program). 148 p. $1.50 

HOW TO BE A CAMP COUNSELLOR. 48 p. $0.75 

CAMP ACTIVITIES 

BASIC RIVER CANOEING. McNair. 104 p. $2.00 

MALO'S COMPLETE GUIDE TO CANOEING AND 

CANOE CAMPING. Malo. 278 p. $1.95 

TEACHING RIDING AT SUMMER CAMP. Price. 

64 p. $1.95 

SMALL BOAT SAILOR'S BIBLE. Smith. 147 p. $2.75 

SWIMMING. Waterman. (Teach Yourself Book). 

160 p. $1.95 


NATIONAL CAMP DIRECTORS' LEADERSHIP 
CONFERENCE - 1975 

— Cassettes. $4.00 each (if 6 or more ordered, $3.50 per tape). 


1. Mazlow's Hierarchy. Don Ehat. (36 min.) 

2. Herzburg. Don Ehat. (30 min.) 

3. Psychological Contracts. Ehat. (Distorted) (40 min.) 

4. Leadership Options. Don Ehat. (35 min.) 

5. Problem Analysis. Don Ehat. (42 min.) 

6. Johari Window and Firo B. Don Ehat. (45 min.) 

7. Force Field Analysis. Don Ehat. 


8. Recruiting, Hiring, Interviewing. Bruce Harris. 

9. Evaluating Your Camp. Barry Lowes. 

10. Staff Training. John Boutin. 

11. Volunteers. Grant Kerr. 

12. Staff Supervision. Brian Law. 

13. Develop Staff From Within Your Camp. Al Knox. 

14. Budget and Financial Leadership. Ron Johnstone. 

15. Recruiting and Public Relations. Doug McEwan. 

16. Actualization of Camp Philosophy. Arnie Cohen. 

17. Working with Committees. Tony Fry. 

•DENOTES A CANADIAN BOOK 


LIBRARY SERVICE 

ARE YOU LOOKING FOR BOOKS ON PARTICULAR TOPICS? - WRITE US - 
WE SHALL TRY TO FIND THEM - THEN LET YOU KNOW - THEN SEND YOU THE ONES YOU WANT 


MAIL TO: C.C.A. PUBLICATIONS 
102 EGLINTON AVE. E. 
SUITE 203 

TORONTO, ONT. M4P1E1 

ORDER BLANK 

Pre paid orders only please 

POSTAGE PAID 


Name:_ 

Address: 

City: _ 

Province: 


Postal 

Code: 


PRINT 


QUANTITY 

DESIRED 

TITLE OR DESCRIPTION 

PRICE EACH 

TOTAL 


























17 





















KAMP PACK p, 

IN CANADA! 


YOUR CAMPERS 

WILL 

The finest Meals hi 


ENJOY 

f° r ' 



“Trail Campers” M 1 ' 


__ 

SchneiderS 

FOODS ® 

Kamp Pack Cook-Out Foods 

packed m our own Govern- * # 

inspected plant. 


Choose from 36 light, tasty 

and easy-to-fix KAMP PACK FOR COOK OUTS 

Items Flavor sealed toll CAMPING OUT 

HUNTING FISHING TRIPS 


"Taste the Difference 

packages satisfies 4 or 8 .. ... . ... . . ^ . 

K a Nothing to Add but Water 

outdoor appetites. No Refrigeration Necessary 


Quality Makes" 

Write for information to 

SELECT FOOD PRODUCTS LTD. 

KAMP PACK DIVISION 

120 SUNRISE AVENUE - TORONTO, ONT. M4A 1B4 


J.M. SCHNEIDER LTD., KITCHENER, ONT. 

Telephone: 759-9316 


(519) 745-7321 


!— -— 

| MEDICAL 

SUPPLIES 
FOR CAMPS? 




! 

I 






I 




Starkmans of course, because we have been supplying all the major 
camps for over 37 years. 

Starkmans wholesale division gives you one source of supply—fast 
service, and all orders are shipped the same day received. 

You are sure of the finest First Aid equipment, drugs and medicines, 
call or write, and remember low, low prices prevail at Starkmans. 


u 3n the Setoice of _Medicine 


>> 


STARKMAN 

CHEMISTS LIMITED 

1243 Bathurst St., Toronto 
Ontario MSS 1Y1 
Telephone: (416)534-8411 


$ 




Changes in 

Infectious Disease Immunization 

—by J. Harry Ebbs, M.D. 

Hospital for Sick Children , Toronto 


Recommendations for immunization of normal children 
are changing as new vaccines are developed and proven, and 
knowledge of the duration of protection is gathered. Prob¬ 
lems at camp associated with some contagious diseases are 
becoming less frequent. While some cases may occur there 
is less need for concern about the majority of them. How¬ 
ever a significant number of people are not yet immunized 
and therefore camp health records should be carefully 
completed. 

The following is the schedule for active immunization 
ol normal children, recommended by the Canadian Paedia¬ 
tric Society and the American Academy of Pediatrics. 

First year of life Diptheria, Tetanus and Pertussis 
(Whooping Cough) 

D.T.P. 

Oral Poliovirus Vaccine T.O.P.V. 

Second year Measles, Mumps, Rubella (German 

Measles) combined in one injection. 
Tuberculin Test. 

Before entering Booster doses of D.T.P. and 

school “ T.O.P.V. 

Smallpox vaccination is no longer considered necessary 
unless an individual is going to visit one of the few areas in 
the world where smallpox has not yet been controlled. In 
recent years there have been very rare cases in Canada and 
the United States of America. Serious reactions can occur 
with vaccination. Vaccinia Immune Globulin (Human) is 
now available for the treatment of smallpox should it ever 
be necessary. 


The camp Health form for both campers and staff should 
have smallpox deleted from the list of vaccinations. If the 
doctor considers it necessary to give primary vaccination, 
it should not be done in the month prior to going to camp. 
This will prevent the spread and infection of the sore from 
scratching, rubbing, etc. 

Tetanus Toxoid is now known to be effective for at 
least ten years. Providing an individual was fully immunized 
previously he or she does not need a booster dose if they 
sustain a minor, clean wound. A booster dose should be 
given for contaminated wounds if more than five years have 
elapsed since the last dose. 

If tetanus should occur in any person. Tetanus Immune 
Globulin is available. It has proven to be very effective. 

New vaccines and combinations of vaccines are being 
developed. 


P.G. GILBERT, M.R.A.I.C., ARCHITECT 

PLANNING AND BUILDING CONSULTANT TO CAMPS 


13 MAPLE AVENUE, TORONTO, ONTARIO M4W 2T5 
(416) 921-7384 

Professor, Ryerson Poly technical Institute, Toronto 
(416) 595-5189 



The QUALITY, WORKMANSHIP and DELIVERY 

that we have to offer you on our SCOUT TENTS is 
very seldom equalled by others. Write or call for 
our free, current price list. 


Canvas Equipment Limited 


P.0. Box 519 or 239 St. Sacrament Street 

Cornwall, Ontario Montreal, 125, Quebec 

613-933-2925 514-849-6152 


19 








Dispose of camp food 
service problems with 

royal Chi net 

disposable plates and bowls 

Strong, attractive Royal CHINET food service products help you ... 

• DISPOSE OF DISHWASHING COSTS 

Cut the expense of installing, maintaining and manning equipment 
that is used only a few months of the year. 

• DISPOSE OF BREAKAGE 

Save yourself the trouble and expense of buying matching replace¬ 
ments for pieces that crack, chip and shatter. 

• DISPOSE OF FOOD WASTE 

You get exact portion control with Royal CHINET’s wide range of 
sizes in regular and compartmented designs. 

• DISPOSE OF GERM COLLECTORS 

Royal CHINET products are sterilized when manufactured and 
packaged. And there’s never a germ-collecting chip, crack or 
poorly washed dish. 

• DISPOSE OF IRRITATING NOISE 

Disposable service is silent service. Meals are relaxed without the 
clatter and crash of china or metal. 

ENVIRONMENTAL ADVANTAGES, TOO 

All good campers want to protect the environment. Royal CHINET prod¬ 
ucts are manufactured from a renewable resource. What’s more, they’re 
biodegradable ... molded of natural wood fibres that burn readily with 
little smoke. Even if discarded out-of-doors, Royal CHINET quickly de¬ 
composes in the earth. 

Get the full particulars now. Mail this coupon today. 


CANADIAN KEYES FIBRE COMPANY LTD. 
HANTSPORT, NOVA SCOTIA 

Please provide me with details of the variety and costs of Royal 
CHINET food service products. 

NAME_ 


/ 


C'i =5 


o 


|43— 




y 






6 - 
a _ 




to 

CD 

CD 


1 

DC 

;*n> 

CD> M 

> fl 

5=* 1 

l 5 

t5D 

L «*§ 


l “ COMPANY or CAMP 


LX | ADDRESS 


R2lA 1 «« . CITY 

PROV_ ill 





Q d 






























