
L'ASSOCIATION DBS 
CAMPS DU CANADA - 
PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 


OFFICIAL PUBLICATION 
OF THE CANADIAN 
CAMPING ASSOCIATION 


IADIAIM 


l 






LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Thank you for the editorial “The Bible Tells Me 
So" in the summer 1984 edition. 

I nodded my head continuously as I read it 
The Bible can be a great camp resource if we 
encourage critical thinking and an openness 
that promotes love, faith, understanding and 
justice for all. To use it as an absolute, is in my 
mind, not what God intended us to do when 
gifting us with curious, creative and critical 
minds. 

For those of us who direct secular camps as I 
do, native folklore and the personal stories of 
campers of Jewish, Moslem, Buddhist - and 
Christian families can also assist in spiritual 
development This development is an important 
element of any camp. 

Thank you, too for your sensitivity in your 
answer to the letter about homosexuality. I 
believe that it takes a lot of courage to speak out 
on the side that you did. How encouraging to 
read what you have written at a time when North 
American churches are debating - and being 
torn apart by this issue. 

I feel as though I cannot sign this letter 
because of my very public position as a camp 
director. This may be viewed as being “chicken” 
or “uncommitted to the cause”. Unfortunately, 
the time is not yet right for some of us who are 
supportive of the rights of lesbians and homo¬ 
sexuals to come out of the closet publicly - no 
matter what our own orientation may be. The 
risks are still too high. 

“Concerned & Supportive 
Saskatchewan” 

With great concern, do I address your comments 
in the Spring ’84 and Summer ’84 editions of 
Canadian Camping regarding 'Sexual Beha¬ 
viour'. It may be assumed that this protest is 
presented by one who is deemed uneducated in 
modern man’s immoral and licentious trends. 
May it be known that there are millions of 
Canadians who remain decent and accept Bib- 
lical morality. 


It would be devastating, if parents of our 
campers assumed that we would be the pro- 
ponants of homosexuality and other unmention¬ 
able practices. As leaders who address immor¬ 
tal souls created in God’s image, we must teach 
how the human vessel may be kept honourable 
rather than being kept from getting caught 
Lastly, there are much better sources regard¬ 
ing this topic than SIECUS. In Dr. Calderone’s 
testimony, it sounds as though her father was 
the sinner rather than the sexually uncontrolled 
teenage gardener. It would be my advice to print 
matters re camping in all its purity rather than 
such controversial matters. 

Jerry Vander Veen 
Atlantic Director 

Canadian Sunday School Mission 


CORRECTION: 

Summer Issue 1984 
Photo credit page 5: 
Camp Tawingo 


believe to be the presuppositions of the editorial 
about the relationship of religious institutions 
and society. While it is true that many examples, 
both historical and contemporary, may be cited 
to illustrate societies in which religious institu¬ 
tions have created problems, such an approach 
is decidedly narrow. In the first place, for every 
sensational example cited in the editorial, exam¬ 
ples of how religious groups and institutions 
have contributed to the progress and betterment 
of a particular society may be cited - both in 
history and in our contemporary society. Further, 
there are a variety of ways in which religious 
institutions see themselves in relation to society 
and in turn how society sees them. From the 


perspective of a religious institution or a church, 
some see the necessity to separate themselves 
from the world - to isolate and withdraw in order 
to maintain a holy community. Others see the 
world as setting their agenda and accommodate 
to the principles articulated in the culture. For 
my part, I subscribe to a position in which the 
church seeks to proclaim and live out the 
message of the Christian gospel by penetration 
and transformation of the culture - by address¬ 
ing the issues of our day with the message of the 
Christian gospel. My point is simply that these 
perspectives must be accounted for if one is 
going to raise the issue of the place of religious 
faith for the camping community in our so- 
called secular and pluralistic society. 

There is a tendency in our society to view 
religion as a personal and private affair - “you 
can believe what you want as long as it does not 
impinge upon public life and culture and as long 
as you conform reasonably to society”. But any 
person who takes their religious faith seriously 
knows that this is not an option. Religious faith 
affects every area of life and impinges upon and 
confronts the culture in which we live. This 
issue is important for the camping community 
because there is a sense in which a camp is a 
microcosm of our society or perhaps even a 
“model community” in which children and young 
people face these very issues, just as we all do 
in society. Camps, then, may be an excellent 
place in which people are given the opportunity 
to reflect upon the kind of relationship religous 
faith ought to have in our society and culture. Do 
our camps promote religion simply as a private 
affair or is there some sense in which questions 
of religious faith are seen to impinge upon life at 
camp in its corporate dimension? If church and 
Christian camps are often accused of ignoring 
the contemporary issues of our society, might it 
not be said also that professedly non-religious 
camps ignore or exclude questions of religious 
faith and their import for the individual and 
society? 


CONTENTS 

Autumn 1984 


Vol. 36. No. 3 

3 A Question of Fitness 

7 

Le Programme Jeunesse En Forme Canada: L'Habitude d’Une Vie 

by Jay Haddad 

9 

La Condition Physique: Comprendre les Principes Fondamentaux 

4 Le Syndrome de I’Activite Physique 


par Condition physique et Sport amateur 

par Jay Haddad 

12 

Religion and Camping - Beyond the Sensational 

5 Camping Advisor 


by John Vissers 

by Jay Haddad 

13 

Standing Orders - For Us? 

6 Fitness Facts - Understanding the Basics 


by Mary Casey 

8 Physical Fitness - A Lifetime Habit 

13 

Are You Taping Your Leaders? 

by Fitness Canada 


by Bruno Morawetz 


Cover Photo: Jay Haddad 


2 









EDITORIAL 

A Question of Fitness!! 

North America is in the middle of a “fitness craze"! Diet and fitness! 
Slimness through the 20 minute workout (with no sexual allusion at all)! Thin 
is in! Pumping iron for muscle tone is open to both genders! See you at the 
gym - sorry - “health club"! You are drinking DIET pop now, aren’t you?! 

The number one book (non fiction) in North America right now is a book 
entitled Eat To Win. Think about it! A psychiatrist recently blamed Jane 
Fonda and the success of her “workout" books and programs for 
increasing the incidence of anorexia nervosa among impressionable 
teenage girls who want to model their idol! Sociologists claim there is a 
trend away from “pick up" bars to “health clubs" where beautiful men and 
beautiful women strut their stuff! The social/sexual arena of the 80s is now 
in step with the "fitness" craze! Long gone is the image of a health centre 
where faceless overweight people slink in during the day in an attempt to 
work off some excess fat. Memberships are filled daily in these “health 
clubs" by people who are responding to today's media barrage and cultural 
emphasis on thinness, diet and fitness. Even the beer commercials have 
quickly joined in - no longer gender specific (male only) ads of “the boys” 
closing the cottage or moving a friend on Saturday afternoon or playing a bit 
of pick-up football (all with beer as their focus for being together socially), 
current ads are co-ed with males and females pumping iron in a gym, 
pushing a stalled auto together or sharing a dance class... and then it's off to 
the pub for some brew! And, of course, you can order “lite" beer; the same 
psychology as choosing “light” cigarettes - it’s a myth but it works! With 
over 200 million diagnosed problem drinkers in North America and 
increasing eating disorders, we don’t need to be reminded of the tragic 
association of human learning where alcohol, diet and exercise are 
associated with “the good life", and a generous reward system of being 
loved and desired! 

But what IS fitness? We can’t disagree with Fitness Canada’s mission 
statement... “to encourage, promote and develop increased participation in 
physical activity leading toward fitness for all Canadians.” Care must be 
given to the consequences of lifestyle changes often used to justify or 
legitimize “physical activity" as an escape from problematic life situations. 
In these cases (which are legion), we often notice a compulsion association 
with the “physical activity"; from a purely psychological perspective, no 
compulsion is healthy to personality function and development whether it's 
gambling, drinking or fitness! Obviously of the three, fitness may be the least 
objectionable from a social perspective, but, in its extreme, it’s no less 
disruptive or debilitating to family, work and leisure relationships. As we 
continue to emphasize MODERATION in all aspects of life’s excesses, 
“fitness" too must be included. 

Many experts in any given area can obviously disagree, but the 
controversy surrounding running and jogging is bringing up evidence 
which simply cannot be ignored. Dr. Henry Solomon of New York has 
recently written The Exercise Myth; in this book he states “strenuous 
exercise is not only not helpful, but may actually be dangerous. All the 
exercise you need is a one-mile walk a day, preferably in 20 minutes or less.” 
Anything more, he argues, is putting you at risk of health problems. Many 
people indeed are sitting up and taking note, especially following the recent 
death of fitness and jogging advocate Dr. James Fixx; Dr. Solomon’s chilling 
reminder “the chance of sudden death during vigorous exercise is seven to 
nine times higher than it is among the sedentary.” He further indicates that 
cardiovascular health is not promoted by aerobics and calisthenics. Other 


researchers disagree and note that there is a direct relationship between 
level of physical activity and length of life. American Medical Association 
editor Dr. Bruce Dan says “the real discovery of this research is not that 
people who exercise have strong cardiovascular systems, rather it is that 
sedentary people have more cardiovascular disease!” Excellent advice 
comes from Dr. Robert Goode, a University of Toronto physiology and 
health educator: “You don’t have to be a fanatic to get benefits. Forty-five 
minutes of moderate exercise a day is just fine, but doing nothing is not." 

How can we help emphasize among our campers that FITNESS is a 
combined physical, social, nutritional, emotional and attitudinal aspect of 
self? All of these elements are intertwined: we have people unfit socially 
who are incapable of interacting in any purposeful, pro-social manner; 
physically unfit people tend to score low on the self-esteem inventories - if 
you don’t like yourself you are more likely to over-eat, over-drink, maintain 
unhygienic habits. However, some physical “compulsives” (like distance 
runners) may actually have low self-esteem and their physical compulsion 
is an escape or diversion, and it’s also a way of inflicting pain on self much 
like the binge-purge syndrome of bulimia or the problem drinker who 
awakes with tremors only to commence drinking again. Unfit emotional and 
attitudinal individuals tend to have strong prejudices, narrow-minded views 
and are often intractable to change. One can be a model of athletic prowess 
and fitness and be found by a judge to be “unfit to stand trial ; yet another 
kind of fitness! 

A report from the Novosti Press Agency (Soviet Union) is interesting in 
that they will spend in their 1984 Govt, budget on health, physical culture 
and sports 16.7 billion rubles. That is roughly $26.7 billion, whereas Fitness 
and Amateur Sports had a 1984 budget of approximately $61.6 million! 
However, the attitude of the Soviets is most curious because their budget is 
not exclusively sports and fitness but includes health and some medicare. 
Health and sport are linked together, they say, because physical activity is 
viewed as preventive medicine! 

Our campers must begin by first and foremost feeling good about 
themselves; they must begin to appreciate diet and nutrition and an 
individual’s responsibility in understanding everything consumed by one’s 
own body. Campers must be able to appreciate physical activity extrinsically 
(as disease prevention) and intrinsically (as something which can be 
justifiable as its own reward, such as the enjoyment of a solo canoe paddle 
or a walk through the woods); physical activity never has to be an end in 
itself but can be a means toward an end - perhaps the end is an initiative 
task, a portage, a group challenge etc. We must assist in facilitating positive 
interactions- a social fitness- in order that campers learn to trust and seek 
assistance and catharsis through other people. And finally, we must not 
tolerate unfit attitudes where a person, race, type or colour is “put down". As 
obesity is to the marathoner, so is prejudice, bigotry and hatred to the “fit” 
mind. Our task in leadership is to enhance and develop programs which 
bring out the many elements of fitness: physical, nutritional, attitudinal, 
emotional and social. Fitness isn’t simply a question of running or jogging - 
it’sa question of thinking critically, breathing freely in an unpolluted environ¬ 
ment, being cognizant of everything (food and chemical) ingested into one’s 
body, and being able to interact freely and without prejudice with all those 
with whom we come into contact Then indeed, the question of fitness 
becomes one intertwined with both prevention and our ability to liberate 
those factors which inhibit us from realizing the value, integrity and potential 
of every human being on this earth. 


Editorial Policy 

Jay Haddad, Editor 

The ideas expressed in the Editorial are those of 
the Editorial Committee and not necessarily 
those of the Canadian Camping Association/ 
Association des Camps du Canada. The views 
are expressed to provide stimulation and com¬ 
ment We invite you to respond in “Letters to the 
Editor" to Canadian Camping, 1806 Avenue Rd., 
Suite 2, Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1. 


Canadian Camping is an official publication of the Canadian Camping Association/Association des 
Camps du Canada. Canadian Camping (ISSN 008-3119) is published quarterly. CCA/ACC member¬ 
ship includes a subscription; non-member subscriptions in Canada $6.00 a year or $15.00- 3 years. 
Send address changes to CCA/ACC, 1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1. 
Material in Canadian Camping may not be reproduced in any form, without written permission of the 
editor. Copyright 1984 Canadian Camping Association/Association des Camps du Canada. 


3 




EDITORIAL 

Le syndrome de Pactivite physique 


L’Amerique du Nord a attrape la maladie du d^veloppement corporal. On fait 
la guerre aux kilos & grands coups de “push-ups”. On suit les vingt minutes 
de danse aerobique £ la t£l£ sans y voir aucune forme d’erotisme bien sur. ft 
faut etre mince, c’est la mode! Les membres des deux sexes sort invites de 
toutes parts a venir suer sang et eau pour fortifier leurs muscles. On se verra 
au gymnase; oh! pardon! au centre d’estltetique corporelle. Vous ne buvez 
plus que du coca sans sucre, n’est-ce pas? 

Le livre (non-romanesque) le plus vendu sur le marche a I’heure actuelle 
sTntitule "Manger pour £tre gagnant”. Un psychiatre a porte un doigt 
accusateur contre Jane Fonda, ses livres et programmes sur la forme 
physique. Selon lui, ces derniers sont la cause d’une augmentation 
d'anorexie mentale chez les adolescentes qui veulent etre I’image de leur 
idole. De leur cote les sociologues ptetentent que la clientele des “pick-up 
bars" se deplace de plus en plus vers les centres d’estttetique corporelle ou 
hommes et femmes font etalage de leur marchandise avec ostentation. 
Aussi, le conditionnement physique sert-il d’alibi aux rapports sociaux et 
aux rencontres galantes. Loin sont ces centres du culture physique ou se 
glissaient furtivement des poids lourds aux faces de careme, dans I’espoir 
d’y perdre quelques kilos. L’adh£sion £ des clubs se multiplie chaque jour. 
C’est a croire que les gens subissent les assauts d’un veritable raz-de- 
matee culturel. II n’est plus question que de regime, de minceur et d’activite 
physique. M§me I’industrie de la btere n’a pas tard£ £ exploiter le filon. Les 
hercules qui fermaient le chalet ou aidaient un copain £ d£m£nager un 
samedi apres-mid ont fait place £ des athtetes des deux sexes qui suent 
sang et eau dans un gymnase, poussent une voiture en panne ou prennent 
des legons de danse. Bien sur, la soir£e se termine dans une brasserie ou 
Ton commande une “l£gere”. On peut voir ici le meme principe que celui de 
la cigarette “leg£re” £ I’oeuvre. Voil£ bien un mythe qui fait marcher les 
affaires rondement! Si nous tenons compte des quelque 200 millions 
d’alcooliques diagnostiqu£s en Anterique du Nord et des probtemes 
croissants relies £ I’alimentation, on peut voir le parrallele qui existe entre 
I’alcool, les regimes et I’exercice pour bien vivre et la recompense qui en 
d6ocule, soit d’etre aime et desire. 

Etre en forme c’est quoi? Nous ne saurions trop applaudir le message de 
Condition physique Canada qui est "d’encourager, de promouvoir et 
d’accroitre la participation & des activites physiques pour que les Canadiens 
soient en pleine forme”. Par contre, nous ne pouvons ignorer les conse¬ 
quences d’un changement de style de vie pour justifier I’activite physique et 
d’6chapper £ des situations probtematiques. Dans nombre de cas, nous 
remarquons souvent une sorte de contraire reliee £ I’activite physique. D’un 
point de vue purement psychologique, aucune contrainte n’est saine pour 
le fonctionnement et l’£panouissement de la personnalite, qu’il s’agisse de 
parier, de boire ou de faire de I’exercice. Cedes que des trois, I’exercice est 
le moindre sur lequel on trouve £ redire. II n’en demeure pas moins que 
pousse £ I’extreme, il est tout aussi nuisible aux relations sociales, 
familiales et de travail. Comme la MODERATION semble continuer d’etre de 
rigueur dans tout, elle doit s’appliquer £ I’exercice. 

Nombre d’experts de difterentes disciplines peuvent s’y objecter mais 
nous ne pouvons tout simplement pas ignorer certains points que fait 
ressortir la controverse au sujet du jogging et de la course £ pied. Le Dr 
Henri Solomon de New-York a ecrit un livre r£cemment qui s’intitule “Le 
mythe de I’exercice” Dans son livre, il nous dit que I’exercicetrop ardu n’est 
non seulement inutile maisaussi dangereux. “Marcher un mille par jour, de 
preference en 20 minutes ou moins, est tout I’exercice dont on a besoin. 
Faire davantage peut provoquer des probtemes de sante, dit-il ” Nombre de 
gens commengent £ tendre I’oreille et £ prendre des notes, principalement 
depuis la mort tecente du Dr James Fixx, ardent defenseur du jogging et de 
I’activite physique. Le Dr Solomon nous faire frissonner quand il nous 
rappelle que les chances de mort subite sont de sept £ neuf fois plus 


£levees en faisant des exercices violents qu’en etant sedentaire. II signale 
que la danse a£robique et les tractions n’anteliorent nullement notre 
condtion cardio-vasculaire. D’autres chercheurs s’y objectent mais ont 
remarqu£ qu’il existait un lien direct entre le degte d’activite physique 
effectue et la longevity. Selon le Dr Bruce Dan, editeur de la revue de la 
“American Medical Association”, la veritable decouverte n’est pas que les 
gens actifs d£veloppent une plus grande resistance cardio-vasculaire mais 
que les personnes sedentaires souffrent davantage de troubles cardio- 
vasculaires. Le Dr Bruce Dan, professeur en physiologie £ I’universite de 
Toronto nous prodique de bons conseils. "Nul n’est besoin d’etre un 
fanatique de I’exercice pour en subir les effets bienfaisants. Un quarante- 
cinq minutes d'exercices mod£r£s par jour suffit. Ne rien faire est mauvais ” 

Comment pouvons-nous convaincre nos campeurs que la condition 
physique, I’alimentation, le climat social, I’etat emotif, I’attitude contribuent 
tous a la bonne forme? Tous ces elements s’agglutinent les uns aux autres. 
L’inapte est incapable de gestes teciproques et teftechis vis-£-vis de ses 
semblables. Les gens en ptetre forme physique obtiennent une note plutot 
rrtediocre au chapitre de I’amour-propre. Ceux qui ne s’aiment pas ont 
tendance £ manger et £ boire davantage, ou si Ton veut, £ d£velopper des 
habitudes malsaines. Par contre, ceux qui font de I’exercice par contrainte 
peuvent aussi manquer d’amour propre. La contrainte leur sert d’echappa- 
toire. C’est aussi un moyen de se punir. C’est un peu comme souffrir de 
bulimie; on se gave, puis on vomit... ou encore d’alcoolisme; on se reveille 
tout tremblant et on se remet £ boire. Les £motifs et les inadaptes tendent £ 
nourrir des ptejug£s, et £ cultiver I’etroitesse d’esprit. ils sont insoumis et 
souvent indisciplinables. On peut devenir un veritable mod£le d’athtetisme 
et etre declare inapte £ subir un proces, ce qui necessite aussi la "bonne 
forme” sous un autre rapport. 

Un document de I’agence de presse russe Novosti fait ressortir un fait 
interessant. De son budget, le gouvernement a consacte environ 16,7 
milliards de roubles au sport, £ la culture physique et aux programmes de 
sant£. Ce chiffre represente pr£s de 61,6 millions. Fait etonnant, c’est que 
les sovtetiques n’ont pas allou£ cette somme rien qu’au sport et £ la forme 
physique mais aussi £ la sante et £ certains soins rrtedicaux. “Le sport et la 
sante vont de pair car I'activite physique est une medecine pr£ventive 
di sent-ils”. 

Nos campeurs doivent avanttoute chose se sentir bien dans leur peau. Ils 
doiventd’abord bien com prendre les merites d’un bon teg imeet d’une saine 
alimentation. Ils doivent comprendre ce que consomme leur corps. Nos 
campeurs doivent etre en mesure d’apptecier I’activite physique en tantque 
nrtedecine preventive, vu de I’exterieur, et en tant que recompense, vu de 
I’interieur. La randonnee en canot ou la marche solitaire dans la nature 
doivent procurer un plaisir. L'activite physique n’est done pas une fin en soi 
mais un moyen d’y parvenir. 

Nous devons agir pour favoriser la reciprocity. Nous devons faire naTtre 
chez nos campeurs la confiance en leurs semblables pour qu’ils fassent 
appel £ eux. Nous ne devons pas toterer les attitudes negatives £ regard 
des gens de couleurs ou des autres races. Les ptejuges, la bigoterie et la 
haine sont £ I’intelligence ce que l’ob£sit£ estg au marathonien. Notre t£che 
en tant que leader est de promouvoir et de d£velopper des programmes qui 
tiennent compte des nombreux elements de la pleine forme car etre en 
forme, c’est plus que courir et faire du jogging. C’est une question de penser 
positivement, de respirer librement dans un environnement non-poliue. 
C’est connaitre tout ce qu'absorbe le corps: nourriture, produits chimiques. 
C’est agir librement et sans ptejug6s £ regard de ceux que nous cotoyons. 
La pleine forme tient £ des facteurs pteventifs, certes, mais aussi £ une 
ouverture d’esprit £ regard des autres afin d’apprecier leur integrity, leur 
valeur et leur potentiel. 


4 


CAMPING ADVISOR 


There are too many running shoes on the 
market today and their prices vary unbelievably. 
Are there obvious things one should look for 
when purchasing athletic shoes? 

K.W., Rexdale, Ontario 

We consulted Dr. Bruce Fligg and he offers the 
following: 

Running shoes should be strongest in the 
area of cushioning, support, and stability while 
still retaining reasonable degrees of flexibility, 
softness and lightness. 

Always use the right shoe for the right sport as 
shoes are designed with function in mind. 

Besides good fit and comfort, there are certain 
things to consider when investing in athletic 
shoe gear 

Certain features of shoes may vary from one 
sport to the next, but to allow for optimum foot 
function, consider the following: 

1. The sole of the shoe should be durable on the 
outside with a soft layer on the inside and offer 
enough flexibility at the ball of the foot (not the 
arch) so it can be bent easily by hand. When 
propelling off toward the next step, if the flexibi¬ 
lity is not available at the ball then the achilles 
tendons and calves may be over-stressed. 

2. There should be adequate cushioning be¬ 
neath the ball of the foot. With running much 
pressure is exerted in this area and especially 
so with sprinting. 

3. There should be a good heel cup to hold in 
the heel, ut it should not be too tight. 

4. The backs and sides of the heel (counter) 
should be firm for support and well padded, so 
that the heel of the foot is stabilized. If the heel 
counter is too loose, it can cause blisters or 
irritation from excessive motion, and also allow 
for too much lateral motion which may lead to 
injuries. 

5. The heel should have good shock absorption 
qualities to reduce the impact at heel strike and 
hence to lessen tendon and muscle strain. A 
slightly elevated heel (about 15 mm or so) 
lessens strains to the backs of the legs. 

6. The toe box should offer room for the toes to 
wiggle, but the fore part of the foot should not 
slide from side to side since blisters may result 
with the motion. The toes should not touch the 
end of the shoe, as the feet will swell with activity 
and the pressure will increase. 

7. Tongue and upper should be well padded, 
and should be fashioned to stay in place while 
running. 

8. Shoes having a rounded back to the heel 
(where the sole comes up to meet the heel) help 
lessen impact shock when the heel strikes the 
ground, because of the greater surface area 
distribution at heel contact. 

9. Heel width: runners in training land on their 
heels and need a wide stable platform. Flared 
heels add extra cushioning at heel strike, but if 
they are too wide, normal shock absorption is 
not allowed, and excess stresses may occur to 
the legs. 

10. The shank area, under the arch of the shoe 
needs to be rigid, and lie flush with the ground. 


The shank must not buckle at foot contact or 
heel and arch injuries may result. 

In addition to the above factors, look for these 
points in Tennis and Squash shoes. 

SQUASH - look for reinforcement as toe for 
protection during foot drag. Soles should allow 
for minimal slippage (gum rubber is recom¬ 
mended depending on surfaces - polished vs. 
painted). There should be some heel elevation 
as more time is spent on the heels. This would 
lessen strains to the back of the leg and 
archilles tendon. 

TENNIS- look for reinforcement at toe for foot 
drag. Sole at ball of foot should be well padded 
since this is where most presure is exerted. 
Sides of shoe should be sturdy for stability 
during continual side-to-side motions. Heel 
should be well cushioned for absorption of 
jarring forces that take place at heel contact. 
Toe box of shoe should allow for ample room as 
well as some cushioning at the tips. 

TIPS ON SHOE CARE: Don’t wear wet shoes 
to train in. Let them air dry, a heater will cause 
them to stiffen and shrink. Use powder in your 
shoes to absorb moisture, lessen friction and 
prevent fungus infections. New shoes should be 
"broken in” before competing in them, so wear 
them a few times first. 

★ ★ * 

Do you know of an easy way to remove gum 
which has stuck to a carpet? 

N.C., Montreal, Quebec 

It is our hope that gum isn't being chewed at 
camp! However, the easiest solution to remove 
gum is to apply ice to the affected area until the 
gum hardens - then it will easily break off! Now 
please keep it out of your hair! 

* * * 

An 11 year-old boy in our camp ran away this 
summer; with the help of the local police he was 
found within 24 hours but the entire staff were 
panic-sticken, to say the least. Are there any 
cues or warning signals that might have helped 
us prevent this event? 

K.B., Orangeville, Ontario 

It is human nature to want to avoid an unpleasant 
situation; once placed in one, it is human nature 
to want to escape! Most children who are upset 
and flee are running AWAY from something, not 
running TO something; as leaders we can try to 
be sensitive to what kids might want to fleeing 
from and this might help prevent some anxiety 
and anguish in having to search for a lost 
person. 

The National Network of Runaway and Youth 
Services has published some of these following 
points: 

• Growing isolation: the child avoids group 
activities, even meals and spends more and 
more of his time in his cabin or tent alone. 

• Excessive blowups: tantrums are common to 
the turbulent teens, but be wary when the 
smallest thing triggers explosions of temper. 


• Abrupt mood swings: take note if a normally 
sunny teen (or child) turns sullen, withdrawn, 
angry, even manic, without warning. 

• Increased sleeping: it is normal for adoles¬ 
cents to sleep more than parents or leaders 
think is healthy. Be wary, though, when inor¬ 
dinate periods of time are spent in bed. It 
could mean the child is in a depression or 
facing problems he cannot manage. 

• Family crisis: death, divorce, loss of a job, a 
major move - any of these can disrupt a family 
and send a child spinning out of orbit. 

• Unexplained money: even if the money is not 
stolen, it may be stashed for an impending 
getaway. 

Some of these points may be helpful; the 
energy we expend in preventing stressful or 
emergency situations is always far better than 
simply responding to them as they occur. 

★ ★ ★ 

Thank you for your letters. We regret that we 
cannot answer each one personally; however, 
we will endeavour to publish the most interest¬ 
ing and provocative ones. Address all letters to; 
The Camping Advisor, c/o The Editor, Canadian 
Camping. 1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, Toronto. 
Ontario M5M 3Z1. 



5 


Camp Mi-A-Kon-Da 



THE CANADAFTTNESS AWARD PROGRAM 

FITNESS FACTS - UNDERSTANDING TOE BASICS 


To understand fitness, the leader has to have a 
basic comprehension of what fitness is and how 
the principles of exercise can be utilized to 
achieve and maintain an adequate fitness level. 
In order to use the CFA as part of a fitness 
program, whether in school, at camp, in scouting 
or other youth-oriented situations, the leader 
will have to know what the six CFA tests entail 
and how to use a variety of interesting activities 
to ensure that the children have an opportunity 
to achieve their chosen fitness goal in each test 
category. Details on how to administer the 
program simply and effectively can be obtained 
by contacting, 

Canada Fitness Award 
365 Laurier Avenue West 
Ottawa, Ontario 
K1A 0X6 
(613) 996-4510 

Fitness Basics 

A physically fit individual is one who is able to 
meet the demands of an active life with enough 
energy to enjoy leisure activity wholeheartedly 
and meet unexpected emergencies competent¬ 
ly. The level of physical fitness that a person 
should strive for will be influenced by age, 
cultural and environmental factors, lifestyle and 
the physical activity undertaken. 

A truly fit individual, whether adult or child, 
exhibits not only motor and muscular fitness, 
but endurance, flexibility and a high level of 
heart-lung or aerobic fitness. In understanding 
what total physical fitness is, the CFA leader 
must have some basic knowledge of the ele¬ 
ments that constitute fitness as well as how 
these factors interrelate. 

Motor fitness is the demonstrated ability to 
move accurately with strength and power in 
various combinations; these characteristics are 
superbly demonstrated in a good basketball 
game and in the CFA shuttle run test. 

Muscular fitness refers to muscular strength 
and endurance, flexibility, speed, power and 
muscle tone. Strength is the force exerted 
during a maximal effort, for example, in weight¬ 
lifting. Muscular persistence is necessary to 
develop endurance. Repetitive activity is re¬ 
quired and the benefits received are specific to 
the muscles used. Flexibility describes the range 
of motion in the body joints. Gradual muscle 
stretching, bending and twisting in a smooth 
and rhythmical fashion will result, over a period 
of time, in a relatively high degree of body 
flexibility. 

Energy fitness or the aerobic capacity of the 
heart and lungs measures the ability of these 
organs to take in oxygen and deliver it through¬ 
out the body via the circulatory system. The 
oxygen that is routed to the muscles during any 
physical activity is converted to energy to meet 
the demand. Good aerobic conditioning de¬ 
mands total body activity that is both prolonged 
and continuous. 


Exercise Principles 

With this basic information about fitness, the 
leader only needs to know how to use the funda¬ 
mental principles of exercise in a training pro¬ 
gram. Exercising principles can be summed up 
in the acronym F.l.T.T. which is defined as 
Frequency, Intensity, Type and Time. 

To be effective, exercise must be done a mini¬ 
mum of three times per week, although fitness 
experts recommend a frequency rate of four to 
five times weekly. The intensity of the exercise 
should exert no excessive pressure on the 
body. To test for strain or fatigue, administer the 
“talk test”; if talking becomes difficult or labour¬ 
ed, then the participant is exercising too hard. 

A good fitness program should include aero¬ 
bic activity, muscle strengthening, endurance, 
and flexibility exercises. Using a 15 minute mini¬ 
mum session of physical activity combined with 
adequate warm-up and cool-down periods, an 
individual need spend only half an hour in 
regular fitness activity. 

The three training axioms to keep in mind 
while participating in or administering a fitness 
program are as follows: 

1. It doesn’t need to hurt to be effective. 

2. Train, don’t strain. 

3. Progress gradually. 

As well, the fitness leader should be aware of 
the exercise principles of overload, progression 
and specificity. Muscles and the heart-lung 
dyad require exercise at an increasingly higher- 
than-normal intensity until the desired fitness 
level is reached. This is the principle of overload. 
After that, exercising at the optimum level is 
necessary to maintain the fitness level achieved. 

When attempting to improve fitness, partici¬ 
pants should start at a reasonable, low level of 
activity. As fitness improves, the participants 
exercise longer (rather than harder), gradually 
progressing toward a higher fitness level. The 
effects of exercise are limited to, or specific to, 
the type of activity performed. Consequently, a 
complete fitness program should involve each 
muscle group, plus aerobics, plus flexibility 
activities for a total fitness package. 

The CFA Test 

The CFA Test is a motor fitness that is simple 
to administer since it is made up of only six test 
items. Each of the tests measure a specific 
component of fitness and all are described in 
the following paragraphs. 

Partial curl-ups test the strength and endur¬ 
ance of the abdominal muscles; the standing 
long jump measures the explosive power of a 
youngster’s leg muscles in fast, sudden effort. 
Straight leg push-ups test the arm and shoulder 
strength. 

The shuttle run demonstrates speed, agility 
and coordination by requiring several changes 
in direction that must be executed quickly and 
smoothly. The 50 metre dash is a test of speed. 
The endurance run is broken down into three 


levels: the 800 metre for 6-9 year olds, the 1600 
metre for 10-12 year olds and the 2400 metre for 
13-17 year olds. This test measures the aerobic 
capacity or heart-lung efficiency of the body. 
Success on the endurance run is a prerequisite 
for the overall award level desired. 

Implementing the Program 

Administering a successful CFA program is a 
relatively simple procedure for leaders eager to 
impart the fitness habit to youngsters. Some 
limited equipment is essential as well as the 
services of a skilled timer. Facilities are not 
generally required unless weather conditions 
are adverse. However, the weather and terrain 
are particularly important considerations for the 
dash and the endurance run which are best 
performed outdoors. 

A trial run or pre-test should be administered 
to the children initially, introducing the CFA 
concept and the requirements of each test. This 
is a vital part of the program as it not only 
indicates to the youngsters their present level of 
fitness but also allows them, under the guidance 
of the leader, to set reasonable fitness goals to 
work towards during the weeks or months 
preceding the final test. 

The final test is used to measure the success 
of the effort put into training activities. The crests 
awarded to the participants are the tangible 
rewards for satisfactory effort and achievement 
Training Activities 

To keep the youngsters highly motivated, the 
leader should use training activities that are 
both fun and interesting during the period prior 
to the final test. Extensive use of the test items as 
training exercises should be avoided. 

The activities which can be used for the 
fitness training period between the pre-test and 
the final test vary depending on the physical 
environment, e.g., school, camp or ”Y”, and the 
availability of facilities, e.g., pool, gym or rink. 
However, some activities are suggested that 
can contribute to improved performance in 
specific test areas. 

Gymnastics, swimming (especially legs only) 
and bent leg raises will contribute to increased 
abdominal strength for the partial curl-ups. To 
improve the explosive power of leg muscles for 
the standing long jump, the leader can use jump 
and reach activities, basketball, volleyball, 
piggyback games and swimming (especially 
legs only). The agility, coordination and speed 
required for the shuttle run will be enhanced by 
ball games, skating and relays. Swimming, bar 
chinning, pull-ups, climbing (especially on a 
jungle gym), and canoeing will contribute to the 
upper arm and shoulder strength required for 
the push-up test item. For improvement in the 50 
metre dash, the leader can use games, races 
and relays in the water and on land, as well as 
sports such as soccer and field hockey. Similar 
activities can be used to improve results in the 
endurance run along with jogging, cross- 





country skiing, bicycling and skipping. 
Conclusion 

With these fitness facts, exercising principles 
and CFA fundamentals, any adult, working with 
children in almost any situation, can use the 


CFA as a complement to an overall activity 
program. By incorporating ideas on lifestyles 
and motivation techniques, the leader can run a 
highly successful fitness program with the CFA 
as a valuable accessory. The short-term effect 


of such a program is a group of kids having a 
great deal of fun while improving their physical 
fitness. The long-range effect will be a richer, 
fuller life for all of these youngsters through a 
commitment to an active, healthy lifestyle. 


LEPROGRAMME 


JEUNESSE EN FORME CANADA 


La bonne forme physique est la cte d’une vie 
mieux remplie et plus riche. Le programme JFC 
constitue un moyen attrayant et positif de v6hi- 
culer le message aux jeunes. En encourageant 
les enfants canadiens a atteindre des degtes 
d’excellence par I’intermediaire de recompen¬ 
ses, le programme JFC les incite k faire regulte- 
rement de I’activite physique, habitude qui leur 
sera profitable toute leur vie durant. 

Le programme JFC vise a aider I’animateur k 
motiver les participants ages de 6 a 17 ans pour 
qu’ils ateignent la meilleure forme physique 
possible. II leur permet de defier leur niveau de 
condition physique actuel, et de chercher, par 
des efforts individuels, a ameliorer leur perfor¬ 
mance. Gr§ce aux deg res d’excellence de JFC, 
les participants peuvent evaluer dans quelle 
mesure leur puissance, leur rapidity, leur force 
et leur endurance evoluent sur une periode 
donnee. Les jeunes qui ont atteint un certain 
deg re d'excellence apres avoir termine avec 
succes un test final regoivent, en guise de 
recompense, une serie d’ecussons (bronze, 
argent, or et excellence) decern£s dans le cadre 
de JFC. 

Influences du mode de vie 
Le moniteur peut se servir du programme 
comme point de depart pour amorcer et orienter 
dans tous les groupes d’age, et surtout avec les 
jeunes adolescents, une serie de discussions 
informelles sur la sante et les habitudes de vie. 

Plus particulterement, les niveaux de perfor¬ 
mance atteints au cours du test prealable de 
JFC peuvent naturellement et tout bonnement 
susciter des questions sur les effets du tabac, 
d’un regime alimentaire, du sommeil et du repos, 
et des activites recreatives. 

Tous ceux qui ont travailte avec les adoles¬ 
cents savent tres bien que ces derniers ne se 
preoccupent pas des eventuels effets nocifs 
des mauvaises habitudes. Par contre, ils s’y 
interessent beaucoup plus lorsqu’ils ressentent 
les effets de ces habitudes sur leur aptitude k 
faire de I’activity physique. 

Le moniteur se trouve ainsi bien place pour 
orienter la discussion de fagon a faire ressortir 
les renseignements suivants. 

• La capacity d’un fumeur k inspirer I’oxygene 
vital et k I’utiliser est reduite de 20 p. 100, ce 
qui affecte les resultats a la course d'endu- 
rance ainsi que toute autre activity physique 
soutenue. 

• Les resultats de chacune des six epreuves 
traduiront r’effet d’entratnement" de I’exc^s 
de poids. Le Guide alimentaire canadien, 


offert dans les bureaux de Sante et Bien-etre 
Canada k Ottawa, peut servir de base pour 
etablir un regime sain. 

• Un manque de repos et de sommeil peut 
nuire a I’yquilibre, a la coordination et k 
I’aptitude a se concentrer ou a fournir des 
efforts soutenus lorsqu’on fait de I’activite 
physique et des travaux intellectuels. 

• Les loisirs ne sont pas seulement une source 
de plaisir, mais aussi un excellent moyen de 
bruler le surplus d’energie. Dans le cas des 
etudiants, on notera de meilleurs resultats 
scolaires et une diminution des problemes de 
comportement. En dehors de I’ecole, les 
repercussions sont moins visibles, mais elles 
en valent tout autant la peine: plaisir, liberty 
depression, decouverte, d6fi et possibility 
d’atteindre des sommets sur les plans physi¬ 
que, affectif et inteilectuel. 

Motivation des jeunes 

II existe certaines techniques qui aident les 
moniteurs £ encourager les jeunes a adopter un 
mode de vie sain qui comprend des activites 
physiques regulieres. Certaines de ces techni¬ 
ques exigent simplement de comprendre la 
fagon dont ils influenced les enfants; d’autres 
necessitent une certaine reflexion et un effort 
conscient de la part des moniteurs. Cependant, 
les resultats positifs tir£s de ces techniques 
peuvent etre surprenants. 

• Les moniteurs de JFC, y compris les ensei- 
gnants, les chefs scouts et les conseillers de 
camps, sont des modeles qui peuvent exercer 
une influence considerable sur la vie des 
jeunes uniquement en adoptant le mode de 
vie sain et physiquementactif qu’ils prechent. 

• Le test ptealable de JFC aide le moniteur £ 
fixer des buts realistes et tealisables que les 
jeunes peuvent s’efforcer d’atteindre dans un 
delai raisonnable et a acqu£rir de meilleures 
aptitudes. 

• Pour le groupe de jeunes plus ages (13 k 17 
ans), le fait de consigner son propre progrks 
ou d’en suivre revolution dans un cahier de 
bord ou sur un graphique de formation peut 
se reveler une excellente source de motiva¬ 
tion, parce que la responsabilite de I’effort, de 
I’antelioration et de la determination des pro- 
btemes incombe au participant lui-meme. 

• Le renforcement positif e st un outil puissant 
pour appuyer I’effort deploy^ afin d'atteindre 


ces buts. Les ecussons de JFC, correspon¬ 
dent a chaque niveau atteint, sont des sym¬ 
bols concrets du renforcement positif qui 
viennent tecompenser I’effort et le succds. 

• La pratique guidee est un moyen utile de 
mener £ bien le programme JFC. Plus les 
participants sont familiers avec les epreuves 
et I’effort exige, tel que le rythme dans la 
course d’endurance, meilleure sera leur 
performance. 

A court terme, le recours k ces techniques 
assure le succes du programme JFC. A plus 
long terme, il peut susciter un engagement k 
faire regulterement de I’activite physique et du 
conditionnement physique et ce, pour le reste 
de la vie. 

Note: Persuades que I’habitude de faire du 
conditionnement physique devrait profiter k 
tous les enfants, les concepteurs du programme 
JFC ont adapts un programme pour les jeunes 
deficients profonds et ont yiabore un guide 
special sur le programme JFC a I’intention des 
handicaps physiques. Pour de plus amples 
details sur I'un ou I’autre de ces programmes 
speciaux ou sur le programme regulier JFC, il 
suffit de s’adresser a: 

Jeunesse en forme Canada 
365 ouest, avenue Laurier 
Ottawa (Ontario) 

K1A 0X6 
(613) 996-4510 

Conclusion 

Pour tous les adultes qui travaillent avec des 
groupes de jeunes dans n'importe quelle situa¬ 
tion, le programme JFC est une excellente 
methode pour encourager I’adoption ferme et 
permanente d’un mode de vie sain et actif. Le 
programme ouvre toute grande la porte a la 
discussion d’une grande vartete de sujets Ites k 
la sante et facilite indirectement la compryhen- 
sion des differences dans la croissance et le 
developpement des divers groupes d’£ge et 
entre les gargons et les filles, surtout au dybut 
de la puberty. Le programme JFC est plus 
qu’une trousse de condition physique: c’est un 
bon outil pour changer le mode de vie. Donnez 
aux enfants I'habitude de se sentir en bonne 
forme physique; ils ne s’en porteront que mieux 
toute leur vie. 


L’HABITUDE D’UNE VIE 

7 






THE CANADA FITNESS AWARD PROGRAM 


PHYSICAL FITNESS - A LIFETIME HABIT 


Physical fitness is the key to a fuller, richer life 
and the CFA is an attractive, positive medium for 
getting the fitness message across to young 
people. By promoting standards of achievement 
through a program of awards, the CFA encour¬ 
ages Canadian children to develop the habit of 
regular physical activity that will benefit them all 
their lives. 

The CFA is a supportive program designed to 
help the leader motivate participants between 
the ages of 6 and 17 to achieve their fitness 
potential. It allows them to challenge their pre¬ 
sent fitness level and strive, through individual 
effort, to improve their performance. The CFA 
standards help the participants measure the 
increasing level of their power, speed, strength 
and endurance over a period of time. To reward 
achievement, the CFA provides a series of 
crests that are presented after successful com¬ 
pletion of a final test: Bronze, Silver, Gold, and 
Excellence. 

Lifestyle Influences 

For all age groups, but especially for the 
young adolescents, the CFA can be used by 
leaders to initiate and guide a series of casual 
discussions on health and lifestyle habits. More 
specifically, achievements on the CRA pre-test 
can lead quite naturally and informally to ques¬ 
tions about the effects of smoking, diet, sleep 
and rest, and recreational activities. 

Anyone who has worked with the adolescent 
age group is well aware that youth is not 
impressed with the future ill-effects of bad 
habits. However, they are much more interested 
when the effects of such habits are demonstra¬ 
ted to have a noticeable influence on their ability 
to perform today. This puts the leader in an 
excellent position to guide discussion and high¬ 
light some of the following information. 

• The body of a smoker is 20 per cent less 
efficient in taking in and using vital oxygen 
which adversely affects scores for the endur¬ 
ance run as well as any other sustaining 
physical activity. 

• The "drag effect” of excess body weight will 
be apparent in the results of each of the six 
test items. Canada’s Food Guide, available 
from Health and Welfare Canada in Ottawa, 
can be used as a sound basis for guidelines 
to a healthy diet. 

• Inadequate rest and sleep can impair balance, 
coordination and ability to concentrate or 
sustain effort in physical activity and intellec¬ 
tual pursuits. 

• Recreation is not only fun but is also an excel¬ 
lent outlet for "burning off” excess energy. 
For students, this can mean an improvement 
in school work and a decrease in behaviour 
problems. Out of school, the side effects are 
less tangible but just as rewarding: fun, self- 
expression, discovery, challenge and the 
opportunity to achieve the maximum - phy¬ 
sically, emotionally and intellectually. 


Motivating Youngsters 

Certain techniques aid the leader in encour- 
aging youngsters to adopt a healthy lifestyle 
which includes regular physical activity. Some 
of these techniques merely require an under¬ 
standing of how they influence children: others 
require some thought and conscious effort on 
the part of the leader. However, the positive 
results of employing these techniques can be 
quite surprising. 

• CFA leaders, like teachers, scout leaders and 
camp counsellors, are role models who can 
have a significant impact on the lives of 
young people simply by living the physically 
active, healthy lifestyle that they espouse. 

• The CFA pre-test helps the leader set fitness 
goals which are realistic and achievable for 
youngsters to strive for within a reasonable 
period of time. 

• For the older group (13-17) self recording or 
keeping track of one’s own progress in a 
simple training diary or chart can be a suc¬ 
cessful motivational tool because the onus 
for effort, improvement and problem identifi¬ 
cation is placed on the individual participant. 

• Positive reinforcement is a powerful tool in 

sustaining the drive towards achieving these 
goals. The CFA crests, representing the level 
achieved, are the concrete symbols of posi¬ 
tive reinforcement, rewarding effort and 
success. o 

• Guided practice is a useful tool to success £ 
with the CFA program. The more familiar ^ 
participants are with the test items and the ^ 
effort required, such as pacing in the endur¬ 
ance run, the better their performance will be. 

The use of these techniqes in the short term 

will result in increased endurance, strength, 
power and agility. In the long term, the effect can 
be a lifetime commitment to regular physical 
activity and fitness. 

Conclusion 

For any adult working with groups of young¬ 
sters in any situation, the CFA program is an 
excellent method for encouraging a lifelong 
commitment to a healthy, active lifestyle. The 
program acts as a springboard for discussions 
on a wide variety of health related topics and 
provides an indirect understanding of the differ¬ 
ences in growth and development between the 
various age groups, and between boys and 
girls, especially at the onset of puberty. The CFA 
is more than just a fitness package; it is a 
positive lifestyle modification tool. 

Hook the kids on the fitness habit - 
it will do them a lifetime of good. 

Note: Firm in the conviction that the fitness habit :§ 
should benefit all children, the CFA has devel- ^ 
oped an adapted program for the trainable ^ 
mentally handicapped youth, as well as a special 
CFA program for the physically disabled. For 
further information on either of these adapted 


programs, or for detailed information on the 
regular CFA program, please contact, 

Canada Fitness Award 
365 Laurier Avenue West 
Ottawa, Ontario 
K1A 0X6 
(613) 996-4510 



8 



PUBLICATIONS 

1984-85 



CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU CANADA 

Suite 2,1806 Avenue Road, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5M 3Z1 
Telephone: (416) 781-4717 



CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

The Canadian Camping Association was founded in 
1936 as a non-profit organization. It is a national 
federation of provincial camping associations uniting the 
camping leaders into an organization involved in the 
growth, development and promotion of camping in 
Canada. 

All Canadian Camping Association programs and pro¬ 
jects are made possible by membership fees, private 
contributions and funds from Fitness and Amateur 
Sport, Government of Canada. 

The Canadian Camping Association operates a book¬ 
store, primarily as a service to its members. Books of 
interest to camp directors, administrators, parents, 
counsellors and leaders working with children and youth 
in the outdoors are available in the Toronto office or may 
be ordered by mail or telephone. CCA Members receive 
a special discount price on all books (listed in brackets; 
identified by M). 

The books handled by Canadian Camping Association 
are classified into broad categories and listed alphabeti¬ 
cally with a brief description of their contents, the 
publisher and the price. At the end of this catalogue 
there are order forms and an alphabetical index. 

As well as selling books from both Canadian and 
American sources, the Canadian Camping Association 
publishes a number of titles and is the distributor in 
Canada for books published by the American Camping 
Association. 

Terms 

All prices are subject to change without notice. Payment 
due within 30 days of invoice date. 

A service charge of 2% per month on the unpaid balance 
will be added to overdue accounts. 

We do not accept returns except in the case of error or 
damage. Authorization for such returns must be re¬ 
quested in advance. 


ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU CANADA 

L’Association des camps du Canada, cr£4e en 1936 est 
un organisme ci but non lucratif et une federation 
nationale des associations provinciales de camping 
feunissant les organismes qui se vouent ci la croissance 
et h l’expansion du camping au Canada. 

Tous les projets et programmes de PAssociation des 
camps du Canada sont realises grSce aux cotisations 
des membres, aux contributions des particulars et aux 
subventions de la Direction generate de la Condition 
physique et du Sport amateur du gouvernement federal. 

L’Association des camps du Canada offre un service de 
librairie ct ses membres. Les livres interessants les 
responsables de camps d’enfants et d’adolescents (direc- 
teurs, administrateurs, parents, conseillers et moniteurs) 
sont disponibles au sfege social ci Toronto. On accepte 
les commandes fefephoniques ou postales. 

Nos publications sont divis^es en categories g6n£rales. 
La liste alphatfetique contient un fesuntfe succinct de 
chaque publication et indique Ifediteur et le prix. A la fin 
du catalogue se trouvent la liste alphab&ique des livres 
et des bons de commande. 

L’Association des camps du Canada vend des livres 
canadiens et anfericains, ainsi que ses propres publi¬ 
cations. De plus, elle est le distributeur des livres publics 
par l’American Camping Association. 

Conditions 

Tous les prix peuvent etre modifies sans pfeavis. Tous 
les dettes actives sont payable apr&s 30 jours. 

Une surcharge de 2% par mois sera ajoufee aux comptes 
en souffrance. 

Nous n’accepterons pas de livres en retour sauf en cas 
d’erreur ou de dommage. II faut en obtenir l’autorisation 
ci l’avance. 


CONTENTS Health Services.4 Philosophy.9 

Camp Administration.1 How To Series.5 La S4rie Comment Faire.10 

Church Affiliated Camping_2 Leadership.5 Sports & Games.10 

Cookbooks.2 Miscellaneous.6 Tripping.11 

Crafts.3 Music.7 Woodsmanship & Camping.11 

General Program.3 Nature.8 Order Forms.12 


















CCA/ACC PUBLICATIONS 

*Denotes a Canadian book. All books are soft cover unless otherwise indicated. 


CAMP ADMINISTRATION 

Awareness Workshop Resource Packet $6.75 

Serving persons with disabilities through camping. 

37 p., 1982. (M - $5.50) 

Basic Camp Management $12.60 

Armand B. and Beverly H. Ball 

A practical guide to the art and science of directing a summer camp. 
Especially designed for the new camp director, the book will also provide 
excellent information for the seasoned administrator. The chapters cover: 
program, purpose, and goals, staff, campers, site and facility preparation, 
legal matters, support services, evaluation, and finances. From a combined 
experience of 41 years in the camp field, the authors have produced a 
unique manual of valuable material for camping administrators. 

American Camping Association, 156 p., 1979. (M — $10.50) 

Camp Administration - Course Outline $1.50 

A guide for courses in camp administration at the graduate level. 
American Camping Association, 29 p., 1961. (M — $1.25) 

Camp Director Education Curriculum Guide $8.40 

Designed as a resource for trainers and college instructors dealing with 
camp director education or camp administration. Each unit contains a 
rationale for the competencies, areas to be covered, suggested learning 
activities, methods of assessment and references. 

American Camping Association, 46 p., 1981. (M — $7.00) 

Camp Management Technical Information Papers $0.75 each 

TIP NO. 9 - “The Camp Staff Applicant: Interview Guidelines.” An outline of 
information and guidelines for the camp staff applicant seeking a position. 

American Camping Association, 1979. (M — $0.60) 

TIP NO. 10 - “The Camp Director: Interview Guidelines.” A discussion of 
interview techniques and practices from the viewpoint of the camp director 
or interviewer. 

American Camping Association, 1979. (M — $0.60) 

Camp Staff Job Descriptions $1.50 

Suggested job descriptions for basic camp positions. 

American Camping Association, 17 p., 1961. (M — $1.25) 

Camp Standards with Interpretations $11.00 

A complete listing of all standards with explanations by which a camp may 
be accredited by American Camping Association. These standards detail 
the desirable practices that are basic to quality camp operation; and are 
designed to provide a camp seeking to be accredited with the most 
complete information on the process. 

American Camping Association, 77 p., revised 1980. (M — $9.25) 

Camp Standards - Condensed $3.00 

An abridged version of the American Camping Association standards. 


sufficient for those who wish a general listing of ACA Standards for 
information purposes. 

American Camping Association, 28 p., 1980. (M — $1.50) 

Camping Strategies for the Eighties $8.10 

Proceedings from the National Symposium sponsored by the Indiana, 
Michigan and Ohio Sections of ACA and the Fund for the Advancement of 
Camping. 

American Camping Association, 35 p., 1981. (M — $6.75) 

*Camps: Their Planning and Management $29.95 

Dr. Robert Wilkinson 

Robert E. Wilkinson, Ph.D., of McGill University’s Physical Education 
Department and Camp Nominigue, Quebec, has written this basic text 
which details both the theory and the practice of all the administrative 
aspects of organized camping. The chapters describe the present scope of 
organized camping in North America, management of human and physical 
resources available to camp administrators, supporting services, evaluation 
and assessment of campers, staff, camp program, and the administration, 
including the director. Key features in the book are health and safety for 
campers and staff, legal responsibility, administrative guidelines - for 
Canada and the U.S.A. 

Hardbound, C.V. Mosby Company, 291 p., 1981. (M — $24.95) 

Conservation of the Camp Site $2.40 

A valuable book for all camp directors and administrators. It deals with 
conservation programming and the steps a camp should take to conserve 
and improve their natural features. 

American Camping Association, 48 p., 1960. (M — $2.00) 

Decentralized Camping $16.95 

Lois Goodrich 

A handbook on how to administer and program for outdoor living in small 
groups. All aspects are discussed: how to begin, selection of staff, pre-camp 
training, nutrition, the health program, preparing campers and parents, the 
camp program and how well it affects individual campers. Shelters, 
buildings, budgets and maintenance are also covered. 

American Camping Association, 183 p., 1982. (M — $14.00) 



Fundamentals of Day Camping $17.10 

Dr. Grace L. Mitchell 

Fundamentals includes almost any information a day camp administrator 
might need. The book discusses the first steps in establishing a camp, the 
site, buildings and equipment, enrolling the campers, administration, 
finance, insurance, transportation, health and safety, and food. Other 





chapters cover the staff, staff training, and discipline and control of 
campers. The final chapters provide a treasury of day camp program in arts 
and crafts, natural resources, adventures in camping, athletics, music and 
programming for special events and for rainy days. 

American Camping Association, 256 p., 1981. (M — $14.25) 

Making Effective Workshops Happen $3.60 

Denise Robinson 

The author discusses the whole range of information in workshop planning, 
from identifying audience needs to evaluation. Included are sections on 
setting goals and objectives, organizing the program, and identifying 
resources and barriers. To illustrate the suggested procedures an example 
of one type of workshop (an awareness workshop on serving disabled 
campers) a resource packet is also available. 

Project Stretch, 10 p., 1982. (M — $3.00) 

National Day Camp Symposium Proceedings $8.70 

A Summary of Proceedings from the Symposium held in November of 1980. 
The Proceedings combine information on multiple topics in the field of day 
camping; pressures on day camps, the child, the community, the day camp 
director, goals/values, outdoor education resources and readings, staffing, 
transportation and energy, marketing and the future of day camping. 

American Camping Association, 119 p., 1981. (M — $7.25) 

*Outdoor Education - Guidelines for Camps $1.20 

Walter D. Mingie 

These guidelines for camp directors who are interested in allowing the use 
of their camps by outside groups for outdoor education during the off¬ 
season. They were developed by a committee chaired by Walter D. Mingie 
at an Outdoor Education Conference sponsored by the CCA/ACC at La 
Caliche, Quebec in 1974. The booklet looks at the administrative, staffing 
and camp resources necessary for such programs and ends with a plan of 
action for those wishing to proceed. 

Canadian Camping Association, 17 p., revised 1981. (M — $1.00) 

Perspectives on Camp Administration $10.95 

Elizabeth Farley, Editor 

An excellent resource for the experienced camp director or one who is 
considering entry into the field. A collection of magazine articles from 
various publications and newly written materials have been compiled 
around specific topics: Philosophic Foundations and Considerations, Life 
Span Development, Administration and Organization, The Camp Program, 
programs for Handicapped Campers, and a View to the Future. 

American Camping Association, 125 p., 1982. (M — $9.00) 

Short Term Camping Work Sheet $0.60 

Additional copies of the Work Sheet incorporated in the Short Term 
Camping Guide. (M — $0.50) 


directors who desire to extend their summer resident facilities to schools 
conducting outdoor education programs. They are directed toward the 
initiation of such use and is not a manual for the conduct of such schools. 

American Camping Association, 22 p., 1972. (M — $1.75) 

Your Camp and the Handicapped Child $1.50 

Dr. Phyllis M. Ford 

Useful guidelines for director and counsellor dealing with handicapped 
campers. 

American Camping Association, 16 p., 1966. (M — $1.25) 

CHURCH AFFILIATED 
CAMPING 

Church Family Camps and Conferences $4.25 

Elizabeth and William Genne 

A detailed manual for the administrator of camps and conference programs 
in the church. The authors, experts in the field, guide you through every 
step of the planning process: goals, sites, facilities, equipment, personnel, 
program activities, scheduling, evaluation, follow-up and much more. There 
are suggestions for serving families with special needs - parents without 
partners, three generation families, older couples and families with handi¬ 
capped members. 

Judson Press, 77 p., 1979. (M — $3.55) 

God, Man, Land: Interrelationship Programs for Camps $8.70 

Dr. Paul Paetkau 

The author has a Ph.D. in biology education and is a consultant on environ¬ 
mental matters. His book provides a theology of Christian camping and 
some general principles in working with church groups. The programs are 
divided into suggested topics forages 9-11, 12-13, and 14-16. A section on 
resources introduces additional material and activities. Delightfully written 
and logically organized, this is a plus for a church leader working with 
children on outdoor topics. 

Faith and Life Press, 155 p., 1978. (M - $7.25) 

Let’s Teach Bible Games $4.00 

Donna Fillmore 

This practical book contains numerous suggestions by which the child’s 
play instinct can be channelled into effective and enjoyable teaching and 
learning experiences through the use of Bible games. 

Baker Book House, 72 p., 1978. (M — $3.30) 



Trainer Guides 

Sue Stein, Editor 

Developed by Project Stretch, these four trainer guides are the result of 
three years of monitoring camp director education programs. 


Food Service Managerial 28 p. $4.25 

(M - $3.50) 

Health and Safety Managerial 27 p. $4.25 

(M - $3.50) 

Business and Finance Managerial 32 p. $4.25 

(M - $3.50) 

Site and Facilities Managerial 29 p. $4.25 

(M - $3.50) 

Use of Resident Camps for School Programs $2.10 

Dr. Betty van der Smissen 


Guidelines developed by ACA Outdoor Education Task Force for camp 


Object Lessons for Children’s Worship $4.55 

Mary Foxwell Loeks 

This book provides a skillfully developed program of songs, memory verse, 
object lessons, correlated Bible story and activity geared to a child’s world. 
The objects used are familiar ones found in most homes or camps and the 
applications made from the objects are clever and unforgettable. 

Baker Book House, 101 p., 1979. (M — $3.80) 

Worship in Youth and Children’s Groups $5.40 

Bemie and Margaret Neufield 

There are many times and places in the life of a child when he can be 
exposed to a conscious awareness of the presence of God and develop a 
sense of corporate worship. This booklet has been prepared with Sunday 
School in mind, but the general principles and practical suggestions can be 
extended to various church related settings, such as, retreats, camps, 
vacation Bible schools, etc. 

Faith and Life Press, 43 p., 1981. (M — $4.50) 


2 




COOKBOOKS 


*Cookery for Kids, Kamp n’ Kicks $5.95 

Helen E. Stewart 

An anthology of recipes used extensively at Camp Wahcahmie in Ontario. 
Tremendous results can be obtained by multiplying these recipes for 6 to 8 
servings by the required number. Aside from delicious ideas for main 
courses, desserts, snacks, there is a section on outdoor cookery and two 
weeks of sample menus. 

Helen E. Stewart, 81 p., 1969. (M — $5.00) 


Cooking for Camp and Trail $8.25 

Hasse Bunnelle & Shirley Saruis 

A Sierra Club Totebook includes 200 recipes for breakfasts, trail snacks, 
lunches, suppers, desserts and beverages. Additional information on 
preparation: planning, purchasing, timing and temperature variables. Super 
appendices cover packaging, equipment and cooking tips. 

Sierra Club, 194 p., 1972. (M - $6.95) 


*Cookout Manual $3.60 

Sue Whitney 

Developed especially for Day Camp Cookouts, this manual provides some 
new and exciting ideas for both small and large cookouts. The recipes have 
been divided into six major groups according to Canada’s Food Guide. 
There are 35 tested recipes. 

City of Etobicoke, Parks and Recreation, 24 p., 1979. (M — $3.00) 


Kinhaven Cookbook $12.00 

John Ahern 

The alternate title is: How We Feed 120 People. Delightfully written, the 
cookbook from Kinhaven Music School in Vermont combines the practical 
know-how gleaned from years of experience in feeding 120 people three 
times a day with warm, friendly instructions and advice to anyone who 
cooks for large groups. It is written by and for amateur cooks and the 
recipes are in detail and very workable for a kitchen which operates without 
a great deal of expensive equipment. An appendix shows menus of two 
typical weeks, a list of minimal equipment, and sample order forms. A 
practical kitchen manual - and one which you will enjoy reading. 

The Kinhaven Music School, 119 p., 1977. (M — $10.00) 



A SterQCfub 


Totebook* 


Cooking 
for Camp 
an d Trail 




*(The) Kitchen Makes the Camp Go ’Round $8.00 

Laurie A. Macintosh dedicates his book to all other cooks preparing good 
food for others at camp, as well as to the memory of all the good times he 
had at camp... “most of them spent in the kitchen”. He knows that summer 
camp revolves around good fun, good times and most of all good food. 
These recipes can all be prepared by either first time cooks or an 
experienced chef. The amounts given to yield 50 portions are sufficient to 
feed groups of children up to the age of 14 or 15. There is a section on using 
leftovers, a metric conversion table, and a list of the weights of common 
foods. 

Laurie A. Macintosh, 87 p., 1981. (M — $6.95) 

Simple Foods for the Pack $12.00 

Vikki Kinmont & Claudia Axcell 

This Sierra Club book is a guide to using whole natural foods while 
backpacking. It shows how to carry simple meals that offer nourishment, 
balance, low cost and good health. The foods are light-weight and long- 
lasting, and the recipes easily packed and prepared. Delicious peanut butter 
fudge! 

Sierra Club, 211 p., 1976. (M - $9.95) 

*Wanapitei Canoe Trippers’ Cookbook $7.15 

Carol Hodgins 

“Wilderness cooking for fun and nutrition” is the subtitle of this informative 
book of recipes. It has evolved from the experiences of Mrs. Hodgins and 
the staff of Wanapitei, a wilderness canoeing camp on Lake Temagami, 
Ontario. As well as many pages of delicious recipes, there are sections on 
nutrition, types and quantities of food, cost, packing, preparation and 
cooking and many other suggestions to make this important part of any 
canoe trip a success. 

Highway Book Shop, 87 p., 1982. (M — $5.95) 



CRAFTS 

(The) Book of Arts and Crafts $5.40 

Marguerite lekis and Reba S. Esh 

This is an almost inexhaustible collection of arts and crafts which can be 
made in a matter of minutes. There are instructions on techniques and 
preparation of materials. A functional index places the projects in the 
category where they can best be used: camps, playgrounds, schools, 
churches, or individuals. Clearly illustrated. 

Dover Publications, Inc., 276 p., 1974. (M - $4.50) 

(The) Complete How To Book of Indian Crafts $9.95 

W. Ben Hunt 

A readable and easy-to-follow text with hand-drawn diagrams shows how to 
use actual techniques and designs developed and perfected by the Indians. 
No special tools or even prior skills are required. In addition, Ben Hunt 
provides a remarkably interesting source of information about the first 
Americans; their highly developed artistry and design; their beliefs and 
traditions. 

Collier MacMillan, 187 p., 1973. (M - $8.25) 

(The) Indian How Book $7.80 

Arthur C. Parker (Gawaso Wanneh) 

How Indians made canoes, tipis, traps, arrowheads, pottery; Indian dances, 
songs, rituals; hunting, cooking, taming animals, more. Elementary level; 
sound anthropologically. 

Dover Publications, Inc., 335 p., 1975. (M — $6.50) 


3 






GENERAL PROGRAM 


Camp Program Ideas $9.00 

A collection of favourite special events from coast to coast: special days, 
evening programs, competitive events, inspirational events, meal themes, 
rainy day activities and miscellaneous events. The author's permission to 
reproduce this material has allowed the CCA/ACC to distribute this book 
at a new and lower price. 

Recreation Department, San Diego State University, 

90 p., 1977. (M - $7.50) 




*Campfire Programs with Jack Pearse $6.75 

Jack Pearse 

A comprehensive campfire treasury which includes not only specific pro¬ 
gram activities but also deals with the theory and philosophy behind camp¬ 
fire program, detailed suggestions for successful song leading and games 
leadership, and a checklist for planning. The author deals with campfires 
from the lighting the fire until the closing moments. He includes storytelling, 
skits, stunts, games, relays, and songs. There are, in addition, five sample 
campfire programs and an extensive bibliography of references. 

Camp Tawingo Publications, 203 p., 1980. 

*CIouds On the Clothesline (And 200 Other Great Games) $7.75 

Jack Pearse, Jane McCutcheon, Barrie Laughton 

A veritable anthology of games - new ones, old ones, original ones - all 
perfected by use at Camp Tawingo. Chapter One includes a discussion of 
the art of games leadership. Succeeding chapters include many special 
types of games, and the chapter on Specialty Games includes two unusual 
categories of games not generally found in other games books, nature and 
campcraft. The description of each game includes the number of people, 
age group, formation, necessary equipment and instructions for the leader. 
Types of games are: active relays, active games, semi-active relays and 
games, mixers, musical games, quizzes, and quiet games. 

Camp Tawingo Publications, 226 p., 1981. 

^Conservation Activities (Camp Allsaw) $4.95 

Johanna Koeslag, B.Sc. 

A manual of conservation activities as developed at Camp Allsaw, in 
Ontario. Campers and staff work together to apply the principles of 
recycling and organic gardening into producing delicious and nutritious 
crops for the enjoyment of the entire camp. A complete description of the 


procedures from composting through to harvesting is included as well as a 
chapter on beekeeping and honey extraction. 

Camp Allsaw, 40 p., 1977. (M - $4.00) 

Cow’s Tails and Cobras $12.00 

Karl Rohnke 

This guide to rope courses, initiative games and other adventure activities 
deals with the perspective of: increasing the participant's persona! confi¬ 
dence, increasing mutual support within a group, increasing the level of 
agility and coordination and increasing his familiarity with clear, precise 
instructions. 

Project Adventure, 156 p., 1977. (M — $10.00) 

Day Camp Program Book $22.95 

Virginia IV. Musselman 

Revised edition of original activity manual for day camp counsellors. Four 
basic sections include: basics for counsellors, environmental activities, 
related program activities and composite program. Chapters also include 
camp emergencies, bus program, council ring programs, trips, weather, and 
sports & fitness. 

New Century, 335 p., 1980. (M — $18.80) 

Goodtimes Around the Campfire $3.60 

LaRueA. Thurston 

This condensation of The Complete Book of Campfire Programs includes 
games, stunts, magic, singing ceremonies, special programs all kinds of 
fun for camping get-togethers. 

Association Press, 128 p., 1967. (M — $3.00) 

*Legacy to A Camper $8.95 

Jocelyn Palm 

This book includes a variety of program ideas for Special Days, Evening 
Program, Indian Council Ring, Quiet Times, Campfires and Thanks. More 
than the history of Mary S. Edgar and Glen Bernard Camp, Legacy to a 
Camper includes selections of Mary S. Edgar's poetry and prose which will 
be useful for all Camps, Guides and Youth Groups. 

Canadian Camping Association, 133 p., 1982. (M — $7.95) 




*More Campfire Programs with Jack Pearse $7.95 

Jack Pearse, Jane McCutcheon & John Jorgenson 

The 8th book from Camp Tawingo Publications which continues the 
tradition of creative campfire material. There are five fun-filled campfire 
programs - complete with opening, singsong, games & relays, stunt, skill, 
story and closing. An additional section offers fuel for even more campfires 
that you may use for your camp. A veritable storehouse of ready-to*use, 
fantastic material for summer camps. 

Camp Tawingo Publications, 202 p., 1984. 





Woodsmoke and Campfire $2.40 

Ernest F. Schmidt 

A definitive description of campfires: kinds, the site, laying the fire, types of 
fires, program and presentation. An excellent resource for campfire 
programming. 

American Camping Association, 1980. (M — $2.00) 


Outdoor Education Equipment $13.40 

Russel E. Bachert, Jr and Emerson L. Snooks 

Here in one book are over 100 ideas for the construction and use of 
self-made equipment. Each piece of equipment is illustrated with a detailed 
line drawing and is accompanied with an explanation that includes its 
purpose, materials needed, procedure for building and some direction for its 
use. Educators, naturalists, students, ecologists and young scientists will 
find in this book a wealth of ideas for further study of the environment. 

Interstate Printers & Publishers, 204 p., 1974. (M — $11.00) 


Raindrops Keep Falling on My Tent $4.20 

Joy MacKay 

A revision of an old favourite, this rainy day book is packed with hundreds of 
great ideas of what to do in camp when it pours. Workable and interesting 
program possibilities which come from Joy MacKay’s experience as a camp 
director, camp consultant, and college professor. Suggestions include rainy 
day programming for individuals, cabin groups, and all-camp activities. Rain 
can be beautiful, even at camp with Joy KacKay’s suggestions and your own 
ingenuity. 

American Camping Association, 20 p., 1981. (M — $3.50) 


Accident Report Form 

American Camping Association 


Camp Health Cards/Forms 

Health Exam. Card (Boy’s) 
Health Exam. Card (Girl’s) 
Health Exam. Form (General) 
Health Record Card 
Health Record Form 

American Camping Association 


Spotlight on Drama $2.40 

Barbara Winslow 

A revised and updated version of the earlier Sjxitlight. The book includes a 
complete description of the elements of a camp drama program: why, the 
principles for success, the administration of a program, sources for drama 
counsellors, suggestions for facilities and equipment, and budget and costs. 
A section on camper development growing out of participation in such a 
program, and an updated bibliography. Delightfully and interestingly 
written. 

American Camping Association, 22 p., 1979. (M — $2.00) 

Stories for the Campfire $7.25 

Bob Hanson and Bill Roemmich, Editors 

A collection of memorable stories gathered from all over the country to be 
told around the campfire. The stories are divided into six types: adventure, 
humorous, ghost, Indian, stories with a moral, and stories from other lands. 
Originally collected and published by the California Camping and Education 
Foundation. 

American Camping Association, 56 p., 1983. (M — $6.00) 

Tips and Tricks in Outdoor Education $10.80 

Malcolm D. Swan 

Compiled from ideas, notes, mimeographed materials, lesson plans, and 
guides by members of the Dept, of Outdoor Education at Northern Illinois 
University’s Lorado Taft Field Campus, this resource is a most valuable aid 
to every outdoor education program. 

Interstate Printers and Publishers, 184 p., 1978. (M — $9.00) 


(The) Camp Health Manual $19.95 

David Goldring 

A completely updated version of The Camp Physician's Manual published in 
1967. The author is currently on the faculty of the School of Medicine at 
Washington University and has spent a number of years as a camp 
physician. The chapters of the new book include: camp standards; infirmary 
organization and administration; infirmary supplies; common medical and 
surgical problems; psychiatric disorders, ear, nose, throat, and chest 
problems; skin problems; allergic disorders; eye injuries and infections; 
bites by snakes, animals, and spiders; and the role of the camp health 
supervisor in emergencies. The most comprehensive manual ever written 
for the use of health supervisors of day and resident camps. 

American Camping Association, 1983. (M — $16.50) 


Camp Staff Application Form $0.25 

The above camp forms were produced by the American Camping 
Association and are not to be reproduced by any other agency. 

(M - $0.20) 


Guide to Camp Nursing $3.60 

Margaret Auld and Graceann-Ehlke 

An incorporation of both The Camp Nurse and “Suggested Policies and 
Standing Orders for Camp Nursing Services” (both published by ACA) this 
guide is based on the research data gathered from currently employed 
camp nurses in seven western states. The knowledge and technical skills in 
the area of camp nursing form the basis for this book. The 1978 revision 
includes extensive revision of the Standing Orders and updates the first aid 
section. 

American Camping Association, 44 p., 1978. (M — $3.00) 


Health Record Log $4.20 

This new publication provides a bound (stitched rather than stapled) log 
book with numbered pages (814 x 11), each page with space for 25 entries 
and a total of 42 empty pages. 

American Camping Association, 42 p., 1978. (M — $3.50) 

*Nurse & the Health Program at Camp $6.75 

Mary /. Casey 

The revised edition of the first CCA publication to deal extensively with 


an* 

the 

£° 0 «an r 
A J CAf *p 



camp health services. A special section for counsellors gives suggestions 
about keeping campers healthy and safe; there is also an added chapter on 
how to deal with camper health and safety on an out-of-camp trip. The 
author has been associated with the field of organized camping as 
counsellor, camp director, and nurse. 

Camp Tawingo Publications, 101 p., 1983. 


2. Knowing the Campers, 142 p. $10.20 

(M - $8.50) 

3. Camp Program Planning and Leadership, 142 p. $10.20 

(M - $8.50) 

4. Camp Health and Safety Practices, 87 p. $7.50 

(M - $6.25) 

5. Dealing with Camper Behaviour, 131 p. $10.20 

(M - $8.50) 

6. Evaluating the Camp Experience, 145 p. $10.80 

(M - $9.00) 

Modules 2 and 4 deal more heavily with the handicapped camper; the other 
modules deal with generic skills common to staff working with any other 
camper clientele. 

Project REACH, 1979. 

Camp Counsellors Handbook $11.95 

B. Blackstock & J. Latimer 

The second edition of a camping classic is now available. Camp counsellors 
and other childrens recreation leaders will benefit from the wisdom and 
experience included in this book. The authors cover the essential informa¬ 
tion for camp counsellors in seventeen chapters such as: Getting Ready, 
What Children Need, You as a Leader, Program Ideas (what to do when 
there’s “nothing to do”), Planning for Trips, and Finishing Off Well. Camp 
directors will find this a valuable resource for your camp staff. 

Methuen, 124 p., 1984. (M — $9.95) 

(A) Camp Director Trains His Own Staff $1.80 

Catherine T. Hammett 

Suggestions for pre-camp and in-camp training. Excellent and definitive 
information will be found most useful by camp directors. 

American Camping Association, 32 p. (M — $1.50) 

(The) Camp Food Services Supervisor $3.00 

Gary Robb 

This publication includes general information on camps and camps for the 
handicapped and specifics of the job of the food service supervisor. It deals 
with topics from the importance of camp food to preparation and serving of 
food, maintenance of food service areas and equipment, to interaction with 
program staff and campers. There is also an annotated bibliography. 
Project REACH, 39 p., 1979. (M — $2.50) 

(The) Camp Maintenance Supervisor $4.20 

Gary Robb 

Designed to serve as a field guide to support staff and as a management aid 
to the director, this manual contains general information on camps and 
camps for the handicapped, and includes a job description for the 
maintenance supervisor covering: responsibilities, relationship with other 
staff, and specifics of the job. There is an annotated bibliography as well as 
appendices for special procedures involving the supervisor. 

Project REACH, 82 p., 1979. (M — $3.50) 

(The) Camp Secretary $3.00 

Gary Robb 

Fhis publication includes information on camps and camps for the handi¬ 
capped and pertinent information for anyone employed as a camp 
secretary. It discusses the major responsibilities of the job: the qualifica¬ 
tions, the relationship of the secretary with other camp staff, and the specific 
duties with regard to bookkeeping, maintaining the file system, managing 
the office, handling mail, and maintaining office supplies. 

Project REACH, 37 p., 1979. (M — $2.50) 


It_ *HOW TO SERIES 

4 or 6 page monographs 

• “Composting for Pleasure and Profit” $0.75 

Sam Hambly, CCA/ACC, 4 p., 1981. 

• “Fun and Fitness at Camp” $1.00 

Marjorie Booth, CCA/ACC, 6 p., 1982. 

• “How to Promote Your Camp” $0.75 

Derek Walsh, CCA/ACC, 4 p., 1981. 

• “Maximum Participation at the Waterfront” $1.00 

Jocelyn Palm, CCA/ACC, 6 p., 1982. 

• Organizing a Sailing Program” $1.00 

Catherine Thomas, CCA/ACC, 6 p., 1982. 

• “Winter Camping Skills” $1.00 

Mors Kochanski, CCA/ACC, 6 p., 1982. 

CCA/ACC Three Ring Binder $4.00 

Made especially to hold the above monographs, a good quality, dark green 
plastic binder is available for $4.00. 



. 


LEADERSHIP 


Camp and the Child $3.00 

A series of articles celebrating the International Year of the Child have been 
combined into a single publication: The Child and Values, The Child and the 
Earth, The Child and Emotional Growth, The Child and Play, The Child as a 
Spiritual Being, and The Whole Child. The articles include the educative 
aspects of camp experiences, value education potential in a camp setting, 
the child’s relationship to the natural world, the importance of play activities 
in camp, spiritual aspects of camp life, and all-round growth and develop¬ 
ment. 

American Camping Association, 1979. (M — $2.50) 

Camp Counsellor and Program Specialist Training Series 

Edited by Dennis A. Vinton and Elizabeth M. Farley 

The camp counsellor and program specialist program has been written to 
provide basic skills, knowledge, and behaviours needed for working in a 
camp. The training program is oriented to field application and features 
individualization of learning experiences. Each of the modules contains a 
checklist of performance objectives, a pretest, learning activities, post-test, 
and answer sheets for the tests. The objectives, learning activities, and 
evaluation methods focus on the specific duties which the camp counsellor 
or program specialist does on the job. Although the program can be used in 
a variety of ways - as a college course, institute, or workshop, or as 
pre-camp training - the emphasis is always on the practical application of 
learning in a camp setting. The booklets are bound, 8% x 11, three-hole 
punched. 

1. (An) Orientation to Chmping and the Camp, 119 p. $9.60 

(M - $8.00) 


3. Camp Program Planning and Leadership, 142 p. 

4. Camp Health and Safety Practices, 87 p. 

5. Dealing with Camper Behaviour, 131 p. 

6. Evaluating the Camp Experience, 145 p. 


6 




$2.40 


$6.60 


Camper Guidance - A Basic Handbook 

Dr. Joel W. Bloom and A. Coojier Ballentine 

A must for every counsellor in every camp. 
American Camping Association, 24 p., 1971. 


(M - $2.00) 


Camper Guidance in the Routines of Daily Living $1.80 

Dr. Joel W. Bloom has written a series of articles for use as supplementary 
reading for counsellor training. 

American Camping Association, 16 p., 1965. (M — $1.50) 


Camping for American Youth, A Declaration for Action $1.80 

Kenneth Webb, Ed. 

Prepared by ACA workshop. An interpretation of camping as it relates to 
present social trends and values and toward the fulfillment of the potential of 
the camper. 

American Camping Association, 26 p., 1962. (M — $1.50) 

Camping is Education $1.80 

An extensive revision of the once very popular “P/ace of the Organized 
Camp in the Field of Education.” A publication which should prove to be a 
classic of camping literature. 

American Camping Association, 24 p., 1960. (M — $1.50) 


*CounselIor-In-Training Instructor’s Manual $14.95 

Designed for use by the C.I.T. Director with special tips for presentation of 
each chapter and suggestions for exercise answers. Additional references 
for each chapter topic. Price includes Binder, Manual and Instructor Notes. 

Canadian Camping Association, 123 p., 1983. 


*Counsellor-In-Training Manual 1 - 9 copies @ $9.95 

10 copies or more @ $8.00 

This workbook is designed for individual use by the C.I.T.’s. Also in a 
looseleaf format. Camp information can be easily added. 

Camp History & Philosophy; Camp Facilities, Policies and Procedures; 
The Role of the C.I.T.; Health and Safety at Camp; The World of the 
Camper; Communication; The Effective Teacher; Leadership; Program 
Organization; Public Relations; Evaluation; 

Canadian Camping Association, 91 p., 1983. 


(A) Guide to a C.I.T. Program $3.00 

ACA National Leadership Committees guide to a leaders guide to the 
development and operation of a counsellor-in-training program in camp. 
This booklet contains suggested forms and program content. 

American Camping Association, 2nd edition, 32 p., 1974. (M — $2.50) 

Guide for Training Camp Staff $4.00 

Project STAFF 

A model of staff training designed for 16-21 year old youth from low-income 
settings, but may be adapted to any camp staff training. 

American Camping Association, 32 p., 1981. (M — $3.50) 

Informal Recreational Activities, A Leader’s Guide $9.00 

Dr. Phyllis Ford presents the basic principles of recreational leadership. The 
incorporation of theoretical principles with practical instruction makes the 
book a useful tool for a recreation leader - beginning or experienced. 

American Camping Association, 119 p., 1977. (M — $7.50) 

*Lead On ... Counsellor! $7.50 

Jack Pearse, John Jorgenson, Jane McCutcheon, Pat Pearse. 

A timely and effective book by four uniquely qualified camp staff providing 
excellent information for the camp counsellor or for those who train camp 
counsellors. A practical, delightfully written book filled with innovative ideas 
for camp leaders. 

Camp Tawingo Publication, 272 p., 1982. 


Senior Adult Camping 

Constance H. Armstrong 

A new handbook providing guidance on philosophy, goals, administration, 
health and safety, emergency procedures, food management and other 
information on the growing activity of camping for older adults. The author 
is currently supervisor of recreation therapy at Harbor View Medical 
Center in Seattle and, through her experience, has provided a valuable 
collection of helps available to people in the fastest growing area of 
organized camping today. 

American Camping Association, 46 p., 1979. (M — $5.50) 



MISCELLANEOUS 

Bibliography of Research in Organized Camping, Environmental 
Education, Adventure Activities and Interpretive Services $23.95 


Dr. Betty van der Smissen and Judy Brookhiser have compiled and edited 
this comprehensive bibliography of research in the listed fields, plus articles 
from related periodicals in those subject areas. Indexed by subject and 
institution, this bibliography covers all research through 1980. 


American Camping Association, 300 p., 1981. (M — $19.95) 


*Blue Lake & Rocky Shore $10.75 

This new publication celebrates the 50th anniversary of the Ontario 
Camping Association and traces the long history of organized youth 
camping in the province. With delightful anecdotes, the editorial committee 
successfully describes the early years in OCA’s camps, the milestones in the 
development of a professional camping organization and the current 
situation. This book is a must for those who love life at camp and for 
historians who want to discover the past of your camping movement. 

Natural Heritage, 112 p., 1984. (M — $8.95) 

Camp Staff Position Introductory Folders $0.30 each 

Six pamphlets designed to provide prospective camp staff members about 
camp setting positions: 

“Introduction to career ladders and entry position in Summer Camp” 
“Camp Assistant Counsellor” 

“Camp Health Aid” 

“Camp Kitchen Aid” 

“Camp Maintenance Assistant” 

“Camp Office Assistant” 

American Camping Association, 1981. (M — $0.25) 

Camp Transportation Log $8.50 

A bound (stitched rather than stapled) log book with numbered pages, 8 V 2 x 
5)4 inches, with lined entry space for keeping a record of all maintenance on 
each individual camp vehicle. This record can fulfill the requirement of ACA 
Standard B-60. 

American Camping Association, 1983. (M — $7.50) 

Careers in Camping ($0.60) 

A pamphlet suggesting job opportunities available in the growing field of 
camping and how to evaluate one’s qualifications and interest in the 
profession. A well written, to-the-point publication which has value in 
counselling young men and women in careers. 

American Camping Association, revised 1979. (M — $0.50) 

Fifty Years of Resident Outdoor Education $21.60 

William M. Hammerman, editor. 

Fifty years of innovative programming in resident outdoor education are 
traced, and the evolution from the early beginnings to the present time are 


7 



explored. The authors of the separate monographs have been involved in 
the development of outdoor education through the operation of such 
programs themselves and through the teaching of other leaders. They 
analyse the impact that resident outdoor education has had on educational 
philosophy and practice and on the increasing problems of our threatened 
environment. 

American Camping Association, 129 p., 1980. (M — $18.00) 

Light from a Thousand Campfires $5.40 

Edited by Kenneth B. Webb 

A treasury of camping ideas, information and experience rooted in the 
camping movement - its purposes, problems and promise for the future. 
The book contains the distilled wisdom of over 83 respected authorities in 
the field of organized camping. 

American Camping Association, 384 p., 1960. (M — $4.50) 

Tajar Tales $2.40 

Jane Shaw Ward 

Illustrated by Herman Lui Drucklieb. A fascinating story for younger 
children and amusing for all. Originally published by the YWCA and 
reprinted by ACA for camping people who love tall stories. 

American Camping Association, 36 p., revised 1967. (M — $2.00) 

*Thirty Indian Legends of Canada $8.35 

Margaret Bemister first drew this collection together from original sources 
over 60 years ago and it is now back in print in a reset and handsomely, 
illustrated edition. This is a moving introduction to the heritage of Canada s 
native peoples, Ojibway and Iroquois, Cree and Okanagan showing their 
sense of identity with the land and its natural wonders. 

Douglas & McIntyre, 151 p., 1973. (M — $6.95) 


*Winds from the Wilderness $10.80 

Carolyn Birmingham, editor. 

This collection of favourite quotes by well-known authors is suitable for 
quiet times at camp or on the trail. Topics such as Leadership, Wilderness, 
Mountains, Adventure, Self-Discovery, Play, Friendship, Dignity, Solitude, 
Happiness and many more are included in this illustrated anthology. 

Canadian Outward Bound Wilderness School, 111 p., 1982. (M — $9.00) 



MUSIC 


*Come On ... Let’s Sing! $4.80 

The very popular book of songs is produced by the Camping Association of 
Nova Scotia. This collection of favourite camp songs is one of our best 
sellers! Words for over 600 songs are included. 

Camping Association of Nova Scotia, 185 p., 1982. (M — $4.00) 


(A) Counsellor’s Guide to Camp Singing $3.60 

Jane Tobitt 

The counsellor will be able to use this book to enhance his/her own musical 
knowledge and make the music program broader in scope and more 
enjoyable for all. 

American Camping Association, 44 p., 1971. (M — $3.00) 


Sing! $2.io 

Edited by the ACA Publications Committee. This completely new edition 
replaces “Lets All Sing. There are fast songs, campfire songs, rounds and 
inspirational songs. 

World Around Songs, 95 p., revised 1978. (M — $1.75) 


*Sing One More Time With Jack Pearse $6.00 

Jack Pearse. 

The second collection of songs by a master song leader. Fifty-three more 
songs (not contained in Sing With Jack Pearse) with both music and lyrics 
(hand printed) to add to your collection. Illustrated with Roly Raccoon. 
Space to record chords and variations. Add this one to your collection! 

Camp Tawingo Publications, 85 p., 1981. 

*Sing With Jack Pearse $6.00 

Jack Pearse. 

An incomparable collection of songs gathered by a master song leader. 
Delightfully illustrated with Celia, the crow, each song is complete with 
words and music - and actions, where they apply. Each page of songs has 
space to record chords and variations as desired. Some old favourites and 
some new ones to spark your music program at camp ... or wherever 
groups sing together. Hand-printed lyrics and notes. 

Camp Tawingo Publications, 37 p., 1980. 

*Singing Fun and Games $9.50 

Jack Pearse, Jane McCutcheon, John Jorgenson, Tom Knowlton 

A delightful program resource book which combines the joy of singing, the 
fun and involvement of games and relays, and the creativity of skits and 
stories. More games fill its pages: active games and relays, specialty games 
(waterfront, nature, campcraft). and quiet games. Over 60 songs are 
featured, songs with choruses and verses that fit into every kind of setting. 
Chock full of variety from front to back. Singing Fun ... And Games 
continues the great Twaingo tradition of well written, enchantingly illus¬ 
trated program material from a camp setting. There is an index of games 
and song titles, and a list of songs by the first line - providing easy access to 
the material. Spiralbound. 

Camp Tawingo Publications, 189 p., 1983. 

Tent and Trail Songs $2.10 

116 songs to supplement the ACA songbook Sing. The format is the same. 
World Around Songs, 80 p., 1966. (M — $1.75) 


NATURE 

Acclimatization: A Sensory and Conceptual Approach to 
Ecological Involvement $7.50 

Steve Van Matre 

First came identification, then collection, followed by experimentation, 
leading to exploration and observation. Acclimatization is sharing, sensing, 
awakening, understanding ... a beginning - not an end. 

American Camping Association, 138 p., 1972. (M — $6.25) 

Acclimatizing: A Personal and Reflective Approach to a 
Natural Relationship $8.65 

Steve Van Matre 

Following his popular book, Acclimatization, this well-known author has 
outlined a much larger program - special walks and talks, trips and trails, 
and a whole series of exercises designed to aid either the camper or a group 
in expanding their understanding of their own natural relationship and 
involvement with the world. 

American Camping Association, 225 p., 1974. (M — $7.25) 



8 






Adventures with a Hand Lens $5.40 

Richard Headstrom 

With an ordinary magnifying glass and this book as your guide, 50 
adventures in close observation await you. These entertaining nature 
studies take you on field trips in and around your home, calling attention to 
interesting features of dozens of familiar or overlooked plants, insects and 
other animals, and common materials. 

Dover Publications, Inc. 220 p., 1976. (M — $4.50) 

(A) Book of Nature Activities $1.20 

John F. Gardner 

This book has been prepared for the purpose of providing worthwhile 
experiences in the field of nature activities for boys and girls of elementary 
school age. They should be able to read it, with perhaps a little help, and do 
the activities that are suggested. 

Interstate Printers, 37 p., 1967. (M — $1.00) 

(The) Earth Speaks $13.95 

Steve Van Matre, Bill Weiler, Ed. 

A collection of poetry and prose dealing with the natural environment. The 
text is divided into three sections - Earth Magic; Earth Wisdom; and Earth 
Spirit. This illustrated journal of thoughts will be invaluable to leaders who 
are involved with the natural world - a powerful tribute to our home in 
space. 

Acclimatization Experiences Institute, 184 p., 1983. (M — $11.50) 

Eco-sketch: Ideas for Environmental Education $6.90 

Russel E. Bachert, Jr., Sandie L. Bateman, Joanne L. Harward, 

Heather J. Hastings. 

The idea-filled pages of this book are directed to leaders working with young 
people and adults in the out-of-doors. Eco-Sketch is designed to jog your 
mind and in turn stimulate development of a dynamic and challenging 
outdoor program. A great reference for schools, camps, nature centres, 
churches, recreation departments, and environmental education centres. 
American Camping Association, 130 p., 1976. (M — $5.75) 

Humanizing Environmental Education (A Guide for Leading 
Nature and Human Nature Activities) $19.80 

Clifford E. Knapp and Joel Goodman 

A unique book, blending and combining the elements of nature education 
and humanistic education. This concept has produced unparalleled re¬ 
sources for anyone who works with people in the outdoors. Hundreds of 
activities designed to give the participant learning experiences in specific 
areas are contained in this book. All of the activities have been used 
successfully in a human relations adventure camp and can readily be 
adapted or adjusted to many types of programs and sites. 

American Camping Association, 252 p., 1981. (M — $16.50) 


Reading the Woods $1U.zU 

Vinson Brown 

Rain, snow, animal life, fire, time and man leave signs in wooded areas that 
tell a story to knowing eyes schooled in reading the woods. With the explicit 
directions found in this fascinating book, event he new “reader’ can soon 
find and understand the clues left by nature and man. 

Collier MacMillan, 160 p., 1969. (M - $8.50) 


Sharing Nature with Children $9.60 

Joseph B. Cornell 

A nature awareness guidebook for educators, parents, or anyone working 
with children in the outdoors; included are suggestions on how to be a good 
nature guide and how to choose the right game for the time and place. The 
activities detailed in the book are wholesome, uncompetitive, imaginative 
games which help the child actually experience what it is like to be a part of 
the natural world. 

Ananda Publications, 142 p., 1979. (M — $8.00) 


Sunship Earth $L3 .dU 

Steve Van Matre 

The author’s third major work in the area of environmental education - his 
first book, Acclimatization, came in 1972 and the second, Acclimatizing, in 
1974. Sunship Earth unites the concepts of the first and the relationships 
experienced in the second into a special program to provide deep 
understanding of how all the passengers on Sunship Earth can live in 
harmony. It is a hard-hitting, carefully thought-out approach, one of the 
most comprehensive environmental education program ever developed. 

American Camping Association, 265 p., 1979. (M — $11.25) 


What on Earth 

R.O. Bale 

Tracing man’s progress from his need of the earth for existence through his 
use of it for recreation, this book provides a storehouse of inexpensive 
projects designed to help campers better understand their evironment. 

American Camping Association, 160 p., 1969. (M — $4.50) 


You and Conservation - A Checklist for Camp Counsellors $1.20 

This pamphlet is intended to help the counsellor and his campers be aware 
of attitudes and simple practices which may add up to good camping and 
good conservation. It was developed by the American Camping Associa¬ 
tion’s Conservation in Camping project and financed by Lilly Endowment. 

American Camping Association, 12 p., 1971. (M — $1.00) 


PHILOSPHY 

Alternatives for Youth-at-Risk $1.20 

Kendall l. Lingle 

An occasional paper by the Fund for the Advancement of Camping. This 
paper provides a summation of the types of alternative programs currently 
in sponsorship and provides some comparisons and estimations of costs, 
success rates, and information on financing. 

FAC/ACA, 12 p., 1980. (M - $1.00) 

Camping Creates Community $1.80 

Dr. Peter S. Gabel 

The fundamental and essential role of camping today and tomorrow is 
eloquently expressed in this most attractively designed booklet. Here is a 
thoroughly up-to-date philosophical approach to camping for today’s 





children, tomorrow’s citizens, edited by one who is concerned and involved 
in seeking ways to help make tomorrow brighter and more promising. 

American Camping Association, 20 p., 1971. (M — $1.50) 

Camping Intergrouping - A Synthesis of Theory and Action $5.70 

Paul R. Gibson 

This unique book is written to help provide camp directors and other 
leaders with ideas for bringing together and working with diverse groups of 
children. Emphasis is given to the many aspects of the camp community 
which provide so well for the implementation of the principles of intergroup¬ 
ing. Camping Intergrouping suggests the components, steps and relevance 
of individual and group commitment to living together peacefully and 
productively in and beyond the camp setting. 

American Camping Association, 84 p., 1974. (M — $4.75) 

Camping in Transition $1.80 

A report on four seminars on camping and outdoor education. The 
deliberations of 20 camping organizations and 10 branches of U.S. Federal 
and State Governments are reflected in this report. These 1964,1965,1966 
and 1967 meetings were sponsored by the American Camping Association 
in cooperation with the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation and others. 

American Camping Association, 27 p., 1969. (M — $1.50) 

Group Experience: The Essence of Camping $1.20 

Robert and Mary Brower 

An occasional paper by the Fund for the Advancement of Camping. Written 
by the co-owners of a summer day camp, the paper details the place of the 
group experience in camping and its resulting influence on campers. 

FAC/ACA, 9 p., 1980. (M — $1.00) 

Interpreting Camp to Parents $1.50 

Moisy Shopper 

An occasional paper by the Fund for the Advancement of Camping. The 
author provides, from his own past experience with the camping movement, 
details of the learning experiences a child encounters at camp and its 
consequent impact in terms of situations. 

FAC/ACA, 8 p., 1980. (M - $1.25) 

Is Camp Administration a Profession? $1.50 

William B. Duncan 

An occasional paper by the Fund for the Advancement of Camping. The 
author is currently the director of George Williams College Camp (Wiscon¬ 
sin) and is one of the first to take the Model A Camp Director Institute. He 
continues to participate on the staff of 20 institutes. He is well qualified to 
discuss the professional implications of the camp administrator. 

FAC/ACA, 8 p., 1981. (M - $1.25) 


new life-style, character and simplicity, spiritual yearning today, and camp's 
greatest contribution. 

FAC/ACA, 4 p., 1979. (M - $1.00) 

Summer Camps - Security in the Midst of Change $3.00 

Kenneth B. Webb 

The author of Light from a Thousand Camp Fires and many other books 
and papers brings to leaders and parents alike the increasing relevancy of 
camping as an educational tool of great value to today’s urban and suburban 
oriented children. 

American Camping Association, 52 p., 1968. (M — $2.50) 

Uncertain Outposts $2.10 

James A. Mason 

An occasional paper issued by the Fund for the Advancement of Camping. 
The future of camping and the challenge of its past is discussed by a camp 
director of 25 years experience. 

FAC/ACA, 16 p., 1979. (M - $1.75) 

(The) Unique Mission of the Summer Camp $1.80 

C. Walton Johnson 

The American Camping Association is extremely pleased to have received 
permission from Mrs. C. Walton Johnson, to reprint this beautifully written 
monography by the founder and director of Camp Sequoyah for Boys, 
Asheville, North Carolina. The sound philosophy of camping by which C. 
Walton Johnson lived and his strong Christian principles which governed 
the operation of his successful camp from 1923 to 1967 can serve as an 
inspiration to camp directors and counsellors everywhere. 

American Camping Association, 24 p., 1973. (M — $1.50) 

(The) Values of Camping $1.50 

Reynold E. Carlson 

A statement of the values of camping as related to camping goals, youth 
needs, current social forces, and learning potential. Designed for use with 
board and committee personnel, as well as parents, and general public. 

FAC/ACA, 8 p., 1975. (M - $1.25) 

Year Round Camping Through Adventure Education 
Programs $1.50 

C. Woodson Baker III 

An occasional paper by the Fund for the Advancement of Camping. The 
author is the director of Camp Holiday Trails (Virginia) which serves 
children with chronic health problems. In the paper, he discusses adventure 
education in definition, outdoor adventure centres, and details developing a 
year-round program. 

FAC/ACA, 8 p., 1981. (M - $1.25) 


Kids in Trouble $5.45 

Campbell Loughmilla 

Campbell Loughmiller is the father of therapeutic camping programs for his 
disturbed children, and the founder and director for more than twenty years 
of the Salesmanship Club Boys Camp near Dallas, Texas. He developed a 
program which has achieved an astounding eighty-five percent longterm 
success rate. His book details the program which he has developed: an 
overview of the process; education; groupwork processes; counsellor 
training; and guidelines for anyone starting a new camp to deal with 
disturbed children. 

Wildwood Press, 94 p., 1979. (M — $4.50) 

(A) Modern Camp for the New Generation $1.20 

Kenneth B. Webb 

An occasional paper isued by the Fund for the Advancement of Camping. 
The author discusses camps in relation to: challenge, sense of ownership, 


*<LA) SERIE 
COMMENT FAIRE 


Les monographies de 4 ou 6 pages 


“Au camp: les plaisirs de la forme” 

Marjorie Booth, CCA/ACC, 6 p., 1982. 

$1.00 

“Comment organiser un programme de voile” 

Catherine Thomas , CCA/ACC, 6 p., 1982. 

$1.00 

“Comment promouvir votre camp vacances” 

Derek Walsh , CCA/ACC, 4 p., 1981. 

$0.75 

“(Le) Compostage pour le plaisir et le gain” 

Sam Hambly, CCA/ACC, 4 p., 1981. 

$0.75 



10 




• “Techniques de camping dTiiver” $1.00 

Mors Kochanski, CCA/ ACC, 6 p M 1982. 

• Vers 1’utilisation maximale du plan d’eau du camp par 

revaluation des installations et des activites” $1.00 

Jocelyn Palm , CCA/ACC, 6 p., 1982. 

Un classeur d’ACC & feuilles mobiles disponible pour $4.00. Indus: votre 
choix de 2 monographies gratuites. 


SPORTS AND GAMES 

(The) Cooperative Sports and Games Book $11.40 

Terry Orlick 

Players of every size, shape, age and ability will delight in this lively collection 
of over one hundred new games based on the idea of cooperation, not 
competition. Included as well are examples of cooperative games played 
round the world; games designed specifically for special education classes; 
and ideas for creating an endless variety of cooperative games on ones own. 
Wonderfully versatile, these games can be played indoors or out, in 
classrooms, on playgrounds, in swimming pools or in gymnasiums. There 
are no complicated rules, no equipment more elaborate than a ball, mat or 
net. 

Random House of Canada Limited, 129 p., 1976. (M — $9.50) 

Creative Growth Games $10.20 

Eugene Raudsepp and George P. Hough , Jr. 

The authors of this book offer a challenge to think in different ways by 
presenting seventy-five stimulating games designed to test and expand 
ones creative powers and problem solving abilities. These games - 
numerical, verbal and spatial - are designed to increase perception and 
imaginative potential. 

The Putnam Group, 195 p., 1977. (M — $8.50) 



(The) Handbook of Recreational Games $4.20 

Neva L. Boyd 

Eighteen categories of games - pursuit and escape, hopping and jumping, 
throwing and catching, bouncing ball, throwing at a mark, intellectual, etc. 
Rules for common and uncommon games that are played by children 
everywhere. 

Dover Publications, Inc., 128 p., 1973. (M — $3.50) 

More Creative Growth Games $10.20 

Eugene Raudsepp 

Eugene Raudsepp in the sequel to Creative Growth Games combines 
provocative fun with daring instruction. This entire new set of 75 games and 
exercises help one discover his/her creative capacities and problem solving 
abilities. There are visual exercises to expand persistence, concentration 
and originality; fantasy games to free the images stifled in the unconscious 
and elaborate mind teasers to unleash new ways of thinking. 

Putnam Publishing Group, 201 p., 1980. (M — $8.50) 

More New Games and Playful Ideas from 

The New Games Foundation $13.00 

Edited by Andrew Fluegelman 

More New Games picks up where the best selling New Games left off, with 
rules for 60 new games, new approaches to participation and winning, 
essays on game creation and adaptation, a capsule version of New Games 
training and an expanded and updated resource guide to publications, 
organizations, and equipment. 

Doubleday, 190 p., 1981. (M - $10.50) 

(The) New Games Book $13.50 

Andrew Fluegelman , Editor 

“Play hard, play fair, nobody hurt” is the motto of New Games. This is a 
collection of games old and new and borrowed from traditional favourites- 
with a new approach. Delightfully written and illustrated with charming 
pictures the games are explained in specific and easily followed instructions. 

Doubleday, 193 p., 1977. (M - $10.95) 


Games for Grownups $6.90 

Marguerite Kohl and Frederica Young 

This collection of 162 games for adults and teenagers starts with a chart 
telling how many players and what equipment is needed; how long the game 
will take, and if it is an active or quiet game. 

Simon and Shuster, 175 p., 1951. (M — $5.75) 



(The) Second Cooperative Sports and Games Book $14.35 

Terry Orlick 

The second volume of the Cooperative Sports and Games Book is “twice as 
big and twice as much fun.” In it, Orlick introduces an entirely new round of 
over 200 active games for indoors and out, and for players of all ages, sizes 
and abilities. There are both original games and new ways to recycle such 
traditionally competitive sports as dodge ball or field hockey into fun-for-all 
challenges. There are: special pointers on teaching cooperative skills to 
teenagers and adults, a chapter on games to play with toddlers, ideas for 
making your own playground equipment. 

Random House of Canada, Limited, 267 p., 1982. (M — $11.95) 

Your Way With Map and Compass $5.70 

John Disley 

A popular instructor’s edition which instructs students on the use of map 
and compass in a simple and interesting way. Provides instruction on the 
fundamentals of map-reading and compass use, using the map and compass 
together, and more advanced orienteering techniques. Contains many 
games and activities to supplement the lessons. 

Silva Ltd., 61 p. 


(M - $4.65) 






TRIPPING 


Basic River Canoeing $6.60 

Robert E. McNair 


The complete manual of white water canoeing. Begins where flat water 
canoeing books end; it describes simply and concisely how and why the 
components of wild water, canoe, and paddle equal high adventure. 

American Camping Association, 104 p., 1969. (M — $5.50) 


Guide to Canoe Camping $6.60 

D. Bruce Johnstone 

From his long-time experience in camping in the canoe country of Minne¬ 
sota, Wisconsin and Canada, the author has provided a detailed handbook 
of information on canoe tripping. He includes information on planning, 
suggested trips, paddling and strokes, food and camping supplies, canoe 
travelling, portaging, and campsites and making camp. The final chapter 
contains valuable tips gleaned from his travels. An excellent manual for a 
leader planning a canoe trip or as a resource for a camp canoe tripping 
program. 

American Camping Association, 64 p., 1980. (M — $5.50) 


Emergency/Survival Handbook $4.75 

Robert E. Brown 

A hip pocket size book of emergency procedures for anyone at home, 
office, camp, boat or bush. In addition to providing information, the orange 
cover can be used as a highly visible signalling device, it is also wax 
impregnated to serve as a fire starter; the mylar centrefold can also be used 
for signalling or as a light intensifier or mirror. Comes in a waterproof 
pouch-pack. 

American Outdoor Safety League, 45 p., 1979. (M — $3.95) 

Outdoor Living Skills 

The Outdoor Living Skills Program is the American Camping Association’s 
internationally known program for teaching successful outdoor living based 
upon the knowledge, skills and attitudes acquired only through actual 
experience in progressive stages. Integral parts of the program are the 
promotion of understanding and appreciation of the beauty of the natural 
world, the wise use of natural resources, the application of health and safety 
practices and a sense of achievement and fellowship. Since the entire OLS 
Course can only be taught by ACA certified OLS instructors, the useful¬ 
ness of the following two books can only be that of reference manuals. 

OLS Instructor’s Manual $7.50 

An outline by which a certified instructor can teach the OLS program. The 
purposes and objectives of the program are covered along with teaching 
plans for the topics in the check list. 

American Camping Association, 81 p., 1979. (M — $6.25) 


Staying Found $8.00 

June Fleming 

This handbook to compass and map use conveys the range of skills and 
information one needs to become a competent backcountry route-finder in 
any season and in any terrain. The test is illustrated and contains 
information on Canadian maps and sources. 

Vintage Books, 159 p., 1982. (M - $6.50) 

*When the Wilderness Beckons $8.35 

Catherine Ross, Debbie Hutton and Pamela Dunbar 

Three very experienced leaders of canoe tripping programs at summer 
camps have combined to write this handbook for small groups and families 
who may have never received formal instruction. There is a chapter on 
Canoeing Skills with illustrations of basic strokes; one on Planning; on 
Packing; a well illustrated section on Portaging; one on Camp Skills and 
Safety; and Emergencies. The information and practical suggestions offered 
should guarantee a safe, comfortable experience. Now into its second 
printing. 

Highway Book Shop, 105 p., 1982. (M - $6.95) 

WOODSMANSHIP 
AND CAMPING 

(The) Campcraft Book $6.60 

Catherine T. Hammett 

A revised and updated version of the original Your Own Book of Campcraft 
first published in 1950. Prepared as a guide to teenage girls and boys for their 
first camping experience, the book has been widely used as a background 
book for ACA’s Outdoor Living Skills course. A handy, authoritative source 
on campcraft skills, the book will be of practical value to anyone, young or 
old, who wants to go camping for the first time. 

American Camping Association, 160 p., 1980. (M — $5.50) 



Guide for the Director of OLS Instructors $4.80 

Serves as a reference tool: what to do, when to do it, and is a stimulus in 
developing the content and methods to be used in an instructor workshop. 

American Camping Association, 12 p., 1980. (M — $4.00) 

Outdoor Safety & Survival $5.95 

B.C. Ministry of Lands, Parks & Housing 

This pocketbook is a wonderful resource for any outdoor enthusiast. The 
chapters give a thorough overview of basic information on a common sense 
approach to preparation for outdoor activity: Survival Psychology, Clothing 
& Equipment, Travel, Hypothermia. So You’re Lost, Building a Fire, 
Building a Shelter, Health and First Aid, to name a few. 

Douglas & McIntyre Ltd., 153 p., 1984. (M - $4.95) 


12 




TITLE INDEX 


Page 

Title 

Member 

Price 

Page 

Title 

Member 

Price 


A 




c 



5 

8 

8 

9 

9 

10 

1 

Accident Report Form 

Acclimatization 

Acclimatizing 

Adventures with a Hand Lens 
Alternatives for Youth-at-Risk 

Au camp: les plaisirs de la forme 
Awareness Workshop Resource Packet 

$ .25 

6.25 

7.25 

4.50 

1.00 

1.00 

5.50 

$ .30 

7.50 

8.65 

5.40 

1.20 

1.00 

6.75 

10 

10 

7 

1 

1 

7 

2 

4 

Camping Intergrouping 

Camping in Transition 

Camping is Education 

Camping Strategies in the 80’s 

Camps: Their Planning & Manag. 
Careers in Camping 

Church Family Camps & Conf. 

Clouds on the Clothesline 

4.75 

1.50 

1.50 

6.75 

24.95 

.50 

3.55 

7.75 

$ 5.70 
1.80 
1.80 
8.10 
29.95 
.60 
4.25 
N/A 


R 



8 

Come On ... Let’s Sing 

4.00 

4.80 



10.50 

12.60 

10 

Comment organiser prog, de voile 

1.00 

1.00 

1 

Basic Camp Management 

10 

Comment promouvir votre camp 



12 

Basic River Canoeing 

5.50 

6.60 


vacances 

.75 

.75 

7 

Bibliography of Research 

19.95 

23.95 

3 

Complete How-To Book of Indian 



7 

Blue Lake & Rocky Shore 

8.95 

10.75 


Craft 

8.25 

9.95 

3 

Book of Arts and Crafts 

4.50 

5.40 

10 

Compostage pour plaisir 

.75 

.75 

9 

Book of Nature Activities 

1.00 

1.20 

6 

Composting for Pleasure 

.75 

.75 

2 

Business & Finance Managerial 

3.50 

4.25 

4 

Conservation Activities 

4.00 

4.95 





1 

Conservation of the Camp Site 

2.00 

2.40 


C 



3 

Cookery for Kids, Kamp n’ Kicks 

5.00 

5.95 

1 

Camp Admin. - Course Outline 

1.25 

1.50 

3 

Cooking for Camp & Trail 

6.95 

8.25 

6 

Camp and the Child 

2.50 

3.00 

3 

Cookout Manual 

3.00 

3.60 

6 

Camp Counsellor’s Handbook 

9.95 

11.95 

11 

Cooperative Sports & Games 

9.50 

11.40 

1 

Camp Dir. Educ. Currie. Guide 

7.00 

8.40 

7 

Counsellor In Training Inst. Manual 

14.95 

14.95 

6 

Camp Dir. Trains His Own Staff 

1.50 

1.80 

7 

Counsellor In Training Manual 

9.95 

9.95 

6 

Camp Food Service Supervisor 

2.50 

3.00 

8 

Counsellor’s Guide to Camp Singing 

3.00 

3.60 

6 

Camp Health and Safety Prac. 

6.25 

7.50 

4 

Cow’s Tails and Cobras 

10.00 

12.00 

5 

Camp Health Cards/Forms 



11 

Creative Growth Games 

8.50 

10.20 

5 

Health Exam. Card (Boy’s) 

.20 

.25 


D 



5 

Health Exam. Card (Girl’s) 

.20 

.25 




5 

Health Exam. Form (General) 

20 

.25 

4 

Day Camp Program Book 

18.80 

22.95 

5 

Health Record Card 

.20 

.25 

6 

Dealing with Camper Behavior 

8.50 

10.20 

5 

Health Record Form 

.20 

.25 

1 

Decentralized Camping 

14.00 

16.95 

5 

Camp Health Manual 

16.50 

19.95 




1 

Camp Management Technical 




E 



1 

Info. Papers: 

Tip No. 9 The Camp Staff Applicant 

.60 

.75 

9 

0 

Earth Speaks 

Frn-ckptrn 

11.50 

5.75 

13.95 

6.90 

1 

6 

4 

Tip No. 10 The Camp Director 

Camp Maintenance Supervisor 

Camp Program Ideas 

.60 

3.50 

7.50 

.75 

4.20 

9.00 

y 

12 

6 

LLU oKvlv.1 ft 

Emergency/Survival Handbook 
Evaluating The Camp Experience 

4.95 

9.00 

5.95 

10.80 

6 

Camp Prog. Planning & Leadership 

8.50 

10.20 


F 



6 

Camp Secretary 

2.50 

3.00 




21.60 

5 

Camp Staff Application Form 

.20 

.25 

7 

Fifty Years of Resident Outdoor Ed. 

18.00 

1 

Camp Staff Job Descriptions 

1.25 

1.50 

2 

Food Service Managerial 

3.50 

4.25 

7 

Camp Staff Position Folders 



6 

Fun and Fitness at Camp 

1.00 

1.00 

7 

Camp Assist. Counsellor 

.25 

.30 

1 

Fundamentals of Day Camping 

14.25 

17.10 

7 

Camp Health Aid 

.25 

.30 





7 

Camp Kitchen Aid 

.25 

.30 


G 



7 

Camp Maintenance Assistant 

.25 

.30 

11 

Games for Grownups 

5.75 

6.90 

7 

Camp Office Assistant 

.25 

.30 

2 

God/Man/Land: Progs, for Camps 

7.25 

8.70 

7 

Introduction to Career Ladders 

.25 

.30 

4 

Good Times Around the Campfire 

3.00 

3.60 

1 

Camp Standards with Interps. 

9.25 

11.00 

10 

Group Exp: The Essence of Camping 

1.00 

1.20 

1 

Camp Standards - Condensed 

1.50 

3.00 

12 

Guide for Dir. OLS Instructors 

4.00 

4.80 

7 

Camp Transportation Log 

7.50 

8.50 

7 

Guide for Training Camp Staff 

3.50 

4.00 

12 

Campcraft Eiook 

5.50 

6.60 

7 

Guide to a CIT Program 

2.50 

3.00 

7 

Camper Guidance - Basic Handbk. 

2.00 

2.40 

5 

Guide to Camp Nursing 

3.00 

3.60 

7 

Camper Guidance - Daily Routines 

1.50 

1.80 

12 

Guide to Canoe Camping 

5.50 

6.60 

4 

Campfire Prog, with Jack Pearse 

6.75 

N/A 




9 

Camping Creates Community 

1.50 

1.80 





7 

Camping for American Youth 

1.50 

1.80 






Page Title 


Member Price 


Page Title 


Member Price 



H 




R 


11 

Handbook of Recreational Games 

$ 3.50 

$ 4.25 

5 

Raindrops Keep Falling on Tent 

$ 3.50 

2 

Health & Safety Managerial 

3.50 

4.25 

9 

Reading the Woods 

8.50 

5 

Health Record Log 

3.50 

4.20 


6 

How to Promote Your Camp 

.75 

.75 


S 


9 

Humanizing Environmental Education 

16.50 

19.80 

11 

Second Co op. Sports & Games 

11.95 


I 



7 

Senior Adult Camping 

5.50 




9 

Sharing Nature with Children 

8.00 

3 

Indian How Book 

6.50 

7.80 

2 

Short Term Camping Worksheet 

.50 

7 

Informal Recreational Activities 

7.50 

9.00 

3 

Simple Foods for the Pack 

9.95 

10 

Interpreting Camp to Parents 

1.25 

1.50 

8 

Sing! 

1.75 

10 

Is Camp Administration a Profession 

1.25 

1.50 

8 

Sing One More Time with Jack Pearse 

6.00 


K 



8 

Sing With Jack Pearse 

6.00 




8 

Singing Fun & Games 

9.50 

10 

Kids in Trouble 

4.50 

5.45 

2 

Site & Facilities Managerial 

3.50 

3 

Kinhaven Cookbook 

10.00 

12.00 

5 

Spotlight on Drama 

2.00 

3 

Kitchen Makes the Camp Go ’Round 

6.95 

8.00 

12 

Staying Found 

6.50 

6 

Knowing the Campers 

8.50 

10.20 

5 

Stories for the Campfire 

6.00 



10 

Summer Camp, Security in Midst 

2.50 


L 



9 

Sunship Earth 

11.25 

7 

Lead On ... Counsellor 

7.50 

N/A 


T 


4 

Legacy To A Camper 

7.95 

9.95 

8 

1 


2 

Let’s Teach Bible Games 

3.30 

4.00 

Tajar Tales 

2.00 

8 

Light from 1000 Campfires 

4.50 

5.40 

11 

Techniques de camping d’hiver 

1.00 



8 

Tent and Trail Songs 

1.75 


M 



8 

Thirty Indian Legends 

6.95 

2 

Making Effective Workshops Happen 

3.00 

3.60 

5 

Tips and Tricks in Outdoor Ed. 

9.00 

6 

Maximum Participation at Waterfront 

1.00 

1.00 


U 


10 

Modern Camp for a New Generation 

1.00 

1.20 

10 


4 

More Campfire Programs 

7.95 

N/A 

Uncertain Outposts 

1.75 

11 

More Creative Growth Games 

8.50 

10.20 

10 

Unique Mission of Summer Camps 

1.50 

11 

More New Games 

10.50 

13.00 

2 

Use of Res. Camp for School Progs. 

1.75 

2 

N 

National Day Camp Proceedings 

7.25 

8.70 

10 

V 

Values of Camping 

1.25 

11 

New Games Book 

10.95 

13.50 

11 

Vers I’util. du plan d’eau ... 

1.00 

5 

Nurse & Health Program 

6.75 

N/A 


W 



O 



3 

Wanapitei Tripper s Cookbook 

5.95 

2 

Object Lessons for Child Worship 

3.80 

4.55 

9 

What on Earth 

4.50 

6 

Organizing a Sailing Program 

1.00 

1.00 

12 

When the Wilderness Beckons 

6.95 

6 

Orientation To Camping & Camp 

8.00 

9.60 

8 

Winds from the Wilderness 

9.00 

5 

Outdoor Education Equipment 

11.00 

13.40 

6 

Winter Camping Skills 

1.00 

2 

Outdoor Education Guidelines 

1.00 

1.20 

5 

Woodsmoke and Campfire 

2.00 

12 

Outdoor Living Skills Inst. Manual 

6.25 

7.50 

2 

Worship in Youth & Child Groups 

4.50 

12 

Outdoor Safety & Survival 

4.95 

5.95 


Y 



P 



10 

Year-Round Camp thru Adven. 

1.25 

2 

Perspectives on Camp Admin. 

9.00 

10.95 

9 

You and Conservation 

1.00 



2 

Your Camp and the Handicapped 

1.25 





11 

Your Way With Map & Compass 

4.65 


Layout Design: 


Typesetting: 


Wendy Wren 
Judy Richards 
Marjorie Booth 
Characters Typesetting 


$ 4.20 

10.20 


14.35 

6.60 

9.60 

.60 

12.00 

2.10 

N/A 

N/A 

N/A 

4.25 
2.40 
8.00 

7.25 
3.00 

13.50 


2.40 

1.00 

2.10 

8.35 

10.80 


2.10 

1.80 

2.10 


1.50 

1.00 


7.15 

5.40 
8.35 

10.80 

1.00 

2.40 

5.40 


1.50 

1.20 

1.50 

5.70 


Canadian Camping Association 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
416-7814717 

PLEASE PRINT 

Name:_Telephoned )_ Date: 

Address:_ 

City/Town:_Province:_ Postal Code: 

CCA MEMBER NUMBER: _ 


BOOKSTORE 
ORDER FORM 


NO. 


TITLE 


PRICE TOTAL OFFICE USE 


SHIPPING RATES: 

$20.00 or less, order must be Prepaid with $2.00 included for 
shipping. 

$20.01 - $50.00, order may be billed. Shipping rate will be $3.00. 
More than $50.00 - shipping rate will be determined per order. 

TERMS: Payment due within 30 days of invoice date. Interest will be 
charged on overdue accounts. All prices are subject to change 
without notice. 


Sub-Total_ 

Shipping- 

TOTAL_ Prepaid 

Signature_ 

Please invoice_ 

Quote Purchase Order No_ 


OFFICE: Date Received_Filled_by-Shipped-by. 


Canadian Camping Association 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
416-7814717 

PLEASE PRINT 

Name:_Telephone: ( 

Address:_ 

City/Town:_Province: 

CCA MEMBER NUMBER _ 


BOOKSTORE 
ORDER FORM 


> 


Date: 


Postal Code: 


NO. 


TITLE 


PRICE TOTAL OFFICE USE 


SHIPPING RATES: 

$20.00 or less, order must be Prepaid with $2.00 included for 
shipping. 

$20.01 - $50.00, order may be billed. Shipping rate will be $3.00. 
More than $50.00 - shipping rate will be determined per order. 

TERMS: Payment due within 30 days of invoice date. Interest will be 
charged on overdue accounts. All prices are subject to change 
without notice. 


Sub-Total_ 

Shipping- 

TOTAI_Prepaid 

Signature- 

Please invoice- 

Quote Purchase Order No- 


OFFICE: Date Received-Filled-by-Shipped-by. 






L’Association des camps du Canada 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
416-7814717 

EN MAJUSCULES S.V.P. 

Nom:---T<*!6phone:( )_ Date: 

Adressc:_ 

Ville:-Province:_ Code postal: 

ACC MEMBRE NO _ 


SERVICE DE LIBRAIRIE 
BON DE COMMANDE 


NO. 


TITRE 


rEservE 

PRIX TOTAL AU BUREAU 


FRAIS D*EXPEDITION: 

$20.00 ou moins doit §tre pay£e en avant avec $2.00 inclus pour 
l’exp£dier. 

$20.01 h $50.00 - !es frais de $3.00 sont ajout£s & la facture. 

Plus de $50.00 - les frais sont calculus et ajout£s. 

CONDITIONS: Tous les dettes actives sont payable apr£s 30 
jours. Une surcharge par mois sera ajout£e aux comptes en 
souffrance. Tous les prix peuvent £tre modifies sans pr^avis. 

A l’usage du bureau: Date Received_Filled_ 


^Association des camps du Canada 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
416-7814717 

EN MAJUSCULES S.V.P. 

Nom:-T£l£phone: ( ) 

Adresse:___ 


Sous-total_ 

Frais dexp^dition_ 

TOTAI-Montant inclus_ 

Signature_ 

SVP facturez & _ 

Commande no._ 

_by-Shipped_by_ 

SERVICE DE LIBRAIRIE 
BON DE COMMANDE 

- Date:_ 


Vilie:---Province:_ Code postal: 

ACC MEMBRE NO. _ 


NO. 


TITRE 


r£serv£ 

PRIX TOTAL AU BUREAU 


FRAIS D’EXPEDITION: 

$20.00 ou moins doit Stre pay£e en avant avec $2.00 inclus pour 
Pexp£dier. 

$20.01 £ $50.00 - les frais de $3.00 sont ajout^s b la facture. 

Plus de $50.00 - les frais sont calculus et ajout^s. 

CONDITIONS: Tous les dettes actives sont payable apr&s 30 
jours. Une surcharge par mois sera ajoutge aux comptes en 
souffrance. Tous les prix peuvent £tre modifies sans pr^avis. 


Sous-total_ 

Frais d’exp^dition_ 

TOTAI-Montant inclus 

Signature_ 

SVP facturez h _ 

Commande no._ 


A l’usage du bureau: Date Received_Filled_by_Shipped__by. 





Canadian Camping Association 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
416-7814717 

PLEASE PRINT 

Name:_Telephone: ( )- Date:- 

Address:--- 

City/Town:_Province:-Postal Code:- 

CCA MEMBER NUMBER: - 

NO. TITLE PRICE TOTAL OFFICE USE 


BOOKSTORE 
ORDER FORM 


SHIPPING RATES: 

$20.00 or less, order must be Prepaid with $2.00 included for 
shipping. 

$20.01 - $50.00, order may be billed. Shipping rate will be $3.00. 
More than $50.00 - shipping rate will be determined per order. 

TERMS: Payment due within 30 days of invoice date. Interest will be 
charged on overdue accounts. All prices are subject to change 
without notice. 

OFFICE: Date Received-Filled- 


Sub-Total- 

Shipping- 

TOTAL_Prepaid- 

Signature-- 

Please invoice- 

Quote Purchase Order No- 

by_Shipped-by. 


Canadian Camping Association 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
416-7814717 

PLEASE PRINT 

Name:_Telephone^ )--- Date:- 

Address:--- 

City/Town:_Province:-.-Postal Code:- 

CCA MEMBER NUMBER - 

"NO TTTLi PRICE TOTAL OFFICE USE 


BOOKSTORE 
ORDER FORM 


SHIPPING RATES: 

$20.00 or less, order must be Prepaid with $2.00 included for 
shipping. 

$20.01 - $50.00, order may be billed. Shipping rate will be $3.00. 
More than $50.00 - shipping rate will be determined per order. 

TERMS: Payment due within 30 days of invoice date. Interest will be 
charged on overdue accounts. All prices are subject to change 
without notice. 


Sub-Total -- 

Shipping- 

TOTAI_Prepaid 

Signature- 

Please invoice- 

Quote Purchase Order No--- 


OFFICE: Date Received_Filled-by-Shipped-by. 



L’Association des camps du Canada 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
416-7814717 

EN MAJUSCULES S.V.P. 

Nom:--—._T<§16phone: ( 

Adresse:__ 

Ville:--Province:- 

ACC MEMBRE NO ___ 


SERVICE DE UBRAIRIE 
BON DE COMMANDE 


Date: 


Code postal: 


NO. 


TITRE 


PRIX TOTAL AU BUREAU 


FRAIS D’EXPEDmON: 

$20.00 ou moins doit £tre payee en avant avec $2.00 inclus pour 
Fexp&lier. 

$20.01 ci $50.00 - les frais de $3.00 sont ajout^s & la facture. 

Plus de $50.00 - les frais sont calculus et ajout^s. 

CONDITIONS: Tous les dettes actives sont payable apr&s 30 
jours. Une surcharge par mois sera ajoutee aux comptes en 
souffrance. Tous les prix peuvent £tre modifies sans pr£avis. 

A Fusage du bureau: Date Received_Filled_ 


L’Association des camps du Canada 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
416-7814717 

EN MAJUSCULES S.V.P. 


Sous-total_ 

Frais d’exp&dition_ 

TOTAL_Montant inclus_ 

Signature__ 

SVP facturez ci_ 

Commande no._ 

-by-Shipped_by_ 

SERVICE DE UBRAIRIE 
BON DE COMMANDE 


Nom:--T£!6phone: ( )_ Date: 

Adresse:______ 

Ville:-Province:_ Code postal: 

ACC MEMBRE NO _ 


NO. 


TITRE 


otr QPRV/F 

PRIX TOTAL AU BUREAU 


FRAIS D’EXPEDITION: 

$20.00 ou moins doit §tre pay€e en avant avec $2.00 inclus pour 
I’exp&lier. 

$20.01 & $50.00 - les frais de $3.00 sont ajout4s ci la facture. 

Plus de $50.00 - les frais sont calculus et ajout^s. 

CONDITIONS: Tous les dettes actives sont payable apr£s 30 
jours. Une surcharge par mois sera ajout£e aux comptes en 
souffrance. Tous les prix peuvent etre modifies sans pr^avis. 

A Fusage du bureau: Date Received_Filled_ 


Sous-total_ 

Frais d’exp&dition_ 

TOTAI-Montant inclus_ 

Signature___ 

SVP facturez ci_;_ 

Commande no_ 

-by-Shipped __by. 




JECINESSE EN FORME CANADA 

LA CONDITION PHYSIQUE: 
COMPRENDRE LES PRINCIPES FONDAMENTAUX 


Pour comprendre la condition physique, I’ani- 
mateur doit savoir les notions fondamentales de 
la condition physique et saisir comment les prin- 
cipes de I’exercice peuvent etre utilises non 
seulement pour atteindre un niveau de forme 
physique approprie, mais encore pour le main- 
tenir. Si I’animateur desire integrer le programme 
JFC a un cours de conditionnement physique, 
que ce soit a I’ecole, dans un camp, dans le 
cadre d’activites de scouts ou d’autres situations 
interessant les jeunes, il devra etre au courant 
de ce que les six epreuves comportent et de la 
fagon d’employer une variety d’activites interes- 
santes permettant aux enfants d’atteindre le 
niveau de condition physique qu’ils se sont fixe 
dans chaque categorie d’epreuves. Pour obtenir 
des details sur la fagon d’administrer le pro¬ 
gramme avec simplicity et efficacite, il suffit de 
communiquer avec: 

Jeunesse en forme Canada 
365 ouest, avenue Laurier 
Ottawa (Ontario) 

K1A 0X6 
(613) 996-4510 

Les principes fondamentaux de 
la condition physique 

Une personne en bonne forme physique est 
une personne en mesure de repondre aux 
exigences d’une vie active avec suffisamment 
d’energie pour profiter veritablement des loisirs 
et capable de faire face aux situations urgentes 
imprevues. Le niveau de condition physique 
auquel une personne devrait aspirer dependra 
de son age, de sa culture, de son milieu, de son 
mode de vie et du type d’activite physique 
entreprise. 

Un adulte ou un enfant vraiment en bonne 
forme affiche non seulement une excellente 
coordination motrice et musculaire mais aussi 
de I’endurance, de la souplesse et une capacity 
cardio-pulmonaire ou aerobie elevee. Pour 
saisir la notion de condition physique optimale, 
I’animateur du programme JFC doit posseder 
des connaissances de base sur les parametres 
de la forme physique ainsi que sur la fagon dont 
ces facteurs sont relies entre eux. 

La motricitd est I’aptitude prouvee de se 
deplacer avec precision, force et puissance 
selon diverses combinaisons. Ces caracteris- 
tiques ressortent remarquablement dans une 
bonne partie de basketball et dans la course- 
navette du programme JFC. 

La tonicite musculaire a trait a la force, & 
I’endurance, a la souplesse, a la vitesse, a la 
puissance et au tonus des muscles. La force est 
la puissance deployee pendant un effort maxi¬ 
mal, par exemple dans I’halterophilie. L’endu- 
rance musculaire s’acquiert avec la perseve¬ 
rance, c’est-a-dire qu’elle est fonction d’exer- 



Glen Bernard Camp 


cices repetitifs et que les bienfaits qui en 
decoulent sont associes aux muscles utilises. 
La souplesse decrit I’etendue des mouvements 
des diverses articulations du corps. Des exer- 
cices graduels d’etirement, de flechissement et 
de torsion des muscles faits regulierement 
assureront, apres un certain temps, une sou¬ 
plesse relativement grande. 

La capacite energetique ou aerobie du coeur 
et des poumons est I’aptitude de ces organes a 
absorber de I’oxygene et a le vehiculer a tout 
I’organisme par le biais du systeme circulatoire. 
L’oxygene transmis aux muscles pendant une 
activity physique est converti en energie afin de 
repondre a la depense energetique. Pour un 
bon conditionnement aerobie, il faut que tout le 
corps soit actif pendant une periode prolongee 
et continue. 

Les principes de I’exercice 

En plus de ces renseignements de base sur la 
condition physique, il reste a I’animateur a saisir 
comment appliquer les principes fondamentaux 
de I’exercice a un programme de formation. Ces 
principes d’exercice peuvent etre resumes dans 


I acronyme F.l.T.T. qui se definit comme la fre¬ 
quence, I’intensite, le type et le temps. 

Pour que l exercice soit profitable, il doit etre 
fait au moins trois fois par semaine, bien que les 
specialistes de la condition physique recom- 
mandent une frequence de quatre a cinq fois 
par semaine. L’exercice devrait etre intense 
sans pour autant exercer trop de pression sur 
I’organisme. Pour evaluer I’effort ou la fatique; il 
suffit de demander au participant de parler en 
meme temps qu’il fait de I’exercice; s’il eprouve 
de la difficulty a le faire, I’exercice est trop 
intense. 

Un bon programme de conditionnement phy¬ 
sique devrait comprendre des exercices favori- 
sant la condition aerobie, le renforcissement 
des muscles, I’endurance et la souplesse. En 
prevoyant une seance minimale de 15 minutes 
d’exercices physiques, combinee avec une 
periode appropriee de rechauffement et de 
relaxation, une personne consacre en tout et 
pour tout une demi-heure a I’activite physique 
reguliere. 

Lorsqu’on participe a un programme de con¬ 
ditionnement physique ou qu’on en administre 
un, il existe trois principes de formation dont il 
faut se souvenir: 

1. II n’est pas necessaire que cela fasse mal pour 

etre efficace. 

2. S’entramer, ce n’est pas s’epuiser. 

3. II faut y aller progressivement. 

En outre, I’animateur de conditionnement 
physique devrait etre au courant des principes 
d’exercice suivants: la surcharge, la progression 
et la specificite. Les muscles et la dyade cardio- 
pulmonaire exigent de faire des exercices a une 
intensity nettement superieure a la normale 
jusqu’a I’atteinte du niveau de condition physi¬ 
que desire. Voila ce qu’on entend par surcharge. 
Par la suite, il faut continuer a faire les exercices 
au niveau optimal afin de conserver la forme 
physique ainsi obtenue. 

En cherchant a ameliorer leur forme physique, 
les participants devraient commencer raison- 
nablement et tout doucement. Au fur et a mesure 
que leur condition physique s’ameliore, ils peu¬ 
vent prolonger la duree des exercices (plutot 
que d’en hausser le seuil de difficulty), se 
dirigeant progressivement vers une meilleure 
forme physique. Les effets de I’exercice sont 
limites ou sont particuliers au genre d’activite 
effectuee. Par consequent, un programme de 
conditionnement physique complet devrait corn- 
porter des activites pour chacun des groupes 
musculaires ainsi que la condition aerobie et la 
souplesse. 


9 




Les epreuves de JFC 

Le programme JFC est un test de la condition 
motrice qui est simple a administrer puisqu’il 
comporte seulement les six epreuves qui sont 
decrites dans les paragraphs suivants. Chacune 
des epreuves mesure une composante particu- 
liere de la condition physique. 

Les redressements partiels assis eprouvent 
la force et I’endurance des muscles abdominaux 
et abducteurs du dos. Le saut en longueur sans 
elan permet d'evaluer la puissance explosive 
des muscles des jambes d’un jeune dans un 
effort rapide et soudain. L’epreuve des exten¬ 
sions des bras, les jambes tendues et paralleles, 
fait valoir la force des bras et des epaules. 

La course-navette est une epreuve de vitesse, 
d’agilite et de coordination parce qu’elle exige 
plusieurs changements de direction qui doivent 
etre effectues a la fois vite et en douceur. La 
course de 50 metres est une epreuve de rapidite. 
La course d’endurance comporte trois niveaux: 
le 800 metres pour les jeunes de 6 a 9 ans, le 
1600 metres pour les jeunes de 10 & 12 ans et le 
2400 metres pour les jeunes de 13 a 17 ans. 
Cette epreuve evalue la capacite aerobie ou 
fonctionnelle cardio-pulmonaire. II est essentiel 
d’avoir termine la course d’endurance pour 
obtenir I’ecusson desire. 

Mise en oeuvre du programme 

Pour les animateurs desireux d’inculquer de 
bonnes habitudes de conditionnement physique 
aux jeunes, il est relativement simple de mettre 
en oeuvre avec succes le programme JFC. II 
leur faut disposer de certaines pieces d’equipe- 
ment simples et retenir les services d’un chrono- 
metreur chevronne. En general, il n’est pas 
necessaire d’avoir des installations & moins que 
les conditions atmospheriques soient mauvai- 
ses. Toutefois, il est particulierement important 
de tenir compte du temps et du terrain pour le 
sprint et la course d’endurance, car les meilleurs 
resultats sont obtenus lorsque ces epreuves 
ont lieu a I’exterieur. 

D’abord, les enfants subissent une course 
d’essai ou un test prealable qui leur fait con- 
naitre le concept de JFC et les exigences de 
chaque epreuve. La course d’essai est primor- 
diale dans le programme parce qu’elle indique 
aux participants leur niveau de forme physique 
actuel et leur permet, sous I’oeil de I’animateur, 
d’etablir des buts raisonnables qu’ils cherche- 
ront a atteindre pendant les semaines ou les 
mois qui precedent le test final. 

Ce dernier sert a mesurer le succes de I’effort 
consacre aux activites de formation. Les ecus- 
sons decernes aux participants sont les recom¬ 
penses qui concretised I’effort et le rendement 
satisfaisants. 

Les activites d’entrainement 

Pour que les jeunes restent trds motives, 
I’animateur devrait faire appel a des activites de 
formation qui sont a la fois amusantes et interes- 
santes pendant la periode qui precede le test 
final. Par consequent, il est recommande de ne 
pas trop se servir des epreuves elles-memes 
comme exercices de formation. 

Les activites qui peuvent etre pratiquees 
pendant la periode de preparation entre le test 


prealable et le test final varied selon le contexte, 
par exemple une ecole, un camp ou un centre 
“Y”, et les installations dont on dispose, par 
exemple une piscine, un gymnase ou une 
patinoire. Cependant, void quelques activites 
qui peuvent contribuer a ameliorer la perfor¬ 
mance dans des domaines precis du test. 

Des exercices de gymnastique, de la natation 
(des jambes seulement) et des elevations, 
jambes pliees aideront a renforcir la sangle 
abdominale pour les redressements partiels 
assis. Afin d’ameliorer la puissance explosive 
des muscles des jambes pour le saut en lon¬ 
gueur sans elan, I’animateur peut avoir recours 
a des exercices de saut, des parties de basket¬ 
ball et de volleyball, des jeux de saute-mouton 
et de la natation (des jambes seulement). L’agi- 
lite, la coordination et la rapidite exigees pour la 
course-navette seront ameliorees par des jeux 
de ballon, du patin et des relais. La natation, des 
exercices de traction a la barre, des tractions, 
de I’escalade (surtout sur un jungle gym) et le 
canotage aideront a augmenter la force des 
bras et des epaules qui est necessaire pour les 
extensions des bras, jambes tendues et paral¬ 
leles. Pour une meilleure performance dans le 
sprint de 50 metres, I’animateur peut avoir 
recours a des jeux, des courses et des relais 
dans I’eau et sur terre ainsi qu’a des sports tels 
que le soccer et le hockey sur gazon. On peut 
utiliser des activites semblables pour ameliorer 
les resultats dans la course d'endurance, 
comme le jogging, le ski de fond, la bicyclette et 
le saut a la corde. 

Conclusion 

Compte tenu de ces donnees sur la condition 
physique, de ces principes d’exercice et des 


notions de base du programme JFC, n’importe 
quel adulte travaillant avec des enfants peut, 
dans presque toute situation donnee, utiliser le 
programme JFC pour completer un programme 
general d'activites physiques. En integrant les 
idees sur le mode de vie et les techniques de 
motivation, I’animateur peut administrer avec 
succes un programme de conditionnement 
physique, en faisantdu programme JFC un outil 
valable. A court terme, un tel programme pro¬ 
curer beaucoup de plaisir au groupe d'enfants 
et en ameliorera la forme physique. A long 
terme, il se traduira par une vie plus riche et 
mieux remplie pour tous les jeunes parce qu’ils 
auront adopte, pour de bon, un mode de vie actif 
et sain. 


POEM 

"I hold myself to be incapable of hating any 
being on earth. By a long course of prayerful 
discipline, I have ceased for over forty years to 
hate anybody. I know this is a big claim. 
Nevertheless, I make it in all humility. 

The law of love could be best understood 
and learned through little children.’ 



10 


Glen Bernard Camp 


International Youth Year 



Annee Internationale 
de la jeunesse 
1985 


YOUTH CAMP DIRECTOR INSTITUTE 
Bolton, Ontario 

January 31 - February 3,1985 
PROGRAM HIGHLIGHTS 

THURSDAY, JANUARY 31 

Registration 

Opening 


Annee Internationale 
de la jeunesse 



International Youth Year 
1985 


FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1 


Morning 9:00 -12:00 

Values & Morals of Youth 

K. Grant Kerr, United Church of Canada 
OCA President 

Stress & Addiction 
Norm Panzica 
Council on Drug Abuse 

Votunteerism & Youth 
Marguerite Hudson 
Girl Guides of Canada 

Responsibility, Loyalty & Commitment of Youth 
Arnold Cohen 

Child Guidance Clinic of Winnipeg 


Afternoon 1:30 - 4:30 

“I’ve done it all” - Apathetic Youth 
Barry Lowes 
Camp Timberlane 

Titles & Branding 

Doreen Kronick, Faculty of Education 
York University 

The Family 

Alan Ingram, Litigation Counsel 

Official Guardian Branch, Province of Ontario 

“Everything Else” Discussion 

Ron Johnstone 

Alberta Camping Association 


SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 2 

9:30 a.m. - 12:00 noon 

Keynote Address: 

“The Ten Commandments of Communication” 

Michael Brandwein, Leadership Training Consultant 
Chicago, U.SA 


Afternoon 1:30-3:00 

Time Management for Camp Directors 

Ron Johnstone 

Motivation Magic 

Michael Brandwein 

Child Abuse 

Arnold Cohen 

Afternoon 4:45 - 5:15 

Kindred Group Meetings 

Special interest sessions in response to 
delegate survey 


Afternoon 3:15 - 4:30 

Marketing Your Camp 

Bruce Harris, Camp Kawabi 

Stuffing Staff with Super Stuff 

Michael Brandwein 

Effective Leadership for Environment Programs 

Craig Copland 
Camp Mini-Yo-We 

Evening 

Campfire Program 

For youthful campers! 


SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 3 

Morning - Chapel Service (optional) 

Panel for People with Problems 

Panel of experts to help you with your situation at camp. 

Closing Address 

John Latimer, Institute Chairman. 

Canadian camping association < 35 ^ association des camps du Canada 

SUITE 2, 1806 AVENUE ROAD • TORONTO, ONTARIO M5M 3Z1 • TELEPHONE (416) 781-4717 


RELIGION AND CAMPING: 
BEYOND THE SENSATIONAL! 


by: John A. Vissers 

That the place of the Bible and religious faith is 
being discussed openly in the camping com¬ 
munity ought to bring some joy to those who 
have laboured in religious, church, and Christian 
camps and often seen their concerns inade¬ 
quately addressed. Enthusiasm, however, is 
tempered by the kind of direction taken in the 
Summer 1984 edition of Canadian Camping. 

It must be pointed out, then, that the issues 
raised by the editor in this most unsatisfactory 
manner are only addressed adequately when 
set in a broader context. I want, therefore, to 
raise what I consider to be the salient presup- 
positional issues in order to set the whole 
discussion in a wider framework. This kind of 
approach will, I believe, be more helpful should 
the camping community continue its reflection 
on the nature of religious faith and its relation¬ 
ship to organized children’s camps. 

I. Religious Authority and Biblical Interpretation 

The “proper interpretation” of the Bible seems 
to be one of the editor’s main concerns. He 
complains about the authoritative citing of scrip¬ 
ture to justify and legitimize all sorts of irrational 
attitudes and activities; about the quoting of 
scripture “out of context”; about accepting the 
message of the Bible uncritically. What he fails 
to appreciate is that these concerns have been 
addressed by the Christian church during the 
past two thousand years. And contemporary 
Christians - lay people, clergy, and scholars - 
are very much concerned with the interpretation 
of the Bible. Theologians work hard at something 
called “hermeneutics” - the science of inter¬ 
pretation. The concerns of the editorial, then, are 
legitimate, but because they are raised in such a 
sensationalized manner, the editor fails to under¬ 
stand this wider issue of hermeneutics and 
makes two glaring mistakes. First, he fails to 
understand the way in which the Christian 
community sees the Bible. There is a failure to 
make a proper distinction between the biblical 
text to be interpreted and the interpreter of that 
biblical text - between the Bible and the person 
who is seeking to understand it. Therefore, his 
example of the game “Rumour Mill", while an 
appropriate illustration for the passing of mes¬ 
sages between people, does not illustrate the 
way scripture came into existence and why it is 
seen to be the Word of God in the church today. 
Second, later the editorial is a perfect example 
of quoting scripture “out of context” Romans 2:1 
and Matthew 24:25 are quoted as “proof-texts” 
to support the editorial position. You cannot 
have it both ways - on the one hand attacking 
the authority of scripture and on the other using 
it to prop up your own position. 

Principles of biblical interpretation are, how¬ 
ever, only part of the even larger issue of 
religious authority. It is clear the editor presup¬ 
poses reason as the measure of all things - that 
is rational, critical thinking. In our day such a 


position is often seen to offer the only logical 
criteria for religion and indeed for life in general. 
But the truth of the matter is that again we are 
confronted with an issue having a long tradition 
in the history of the Christian church and 
western civilization. Do we base our faith upon 
human reason - rational, critical thinking - or do 
we find justification for religious belief elsewhere 
- as in a revelation of some sort? The principles 
of reason operative in our culture are inherited 
from the Enlightenment and are not to be 
disparaged, but I want to suggest that religious 
faith is more, much more, than rational, critical 
thinking. While faith is reasonable in the sense 
that it is reasonable to believe, religious faith is 
also a human response to a divine revelation - 
the revelation of God - which for Christians is 
the revelation of God in Jesus Christ as revealed 
in the Word of God - the Bible. Authority for 
religion, then, is not found simply in autonomous 
reason. The Bible’s purpose is not simply to be 
used “to promote rational, critical thinking in 
children’s minds to facilitate more responsible 
and compassionate growth to adulthood”. The 
Bible is a book of faith and our response to its 
authority for our lives extends beyond the use of 
our fallible human reason. 

Discussions among philosophers, scientists, 
and theologians concerning our “Post-Scientific 
Culture” seem to bear this out - that human 
knowledge involves much more than reason 
and that it is indeed possible to speak meaning¬ 
fully of religious faith and revelation in our world 
(cf. T. Kuhn, The Structure of Scientific Revolu¬ 
tions, P. Berger A Rumour of Angefs, S. Keen 
Apology for Wonder, S. Toulmin, The Evolution 
of Human Concepts, and many other scientific, 
philosophical, and theological books). In react¬ 
ing against the blind obedience of many to 
religious and spiritual leaders everywhere evi¬ 
dent in our society, the editor has gone to the 
opposite extreme of making cold rationality the 
measure of life, thereby excluding by presuppo¬ 
sition the very heart of religion - faith as res¬ 
ponse to revelation. 

I am pleading the, for a more careful and 
nuanced discussion than that presented in the 
editorial. Consider the authority of the Bible 
within the wider discussion of biblical interpre¬ 
tation and religious authority. Generalizations 
such as those made in the editorial cannot be 
taken seriously until one considers the very 
nature of biblical inspiration, revelation, and 
interpretation in this way. 

II. Religious Faith and Ethics 

The editorial propogates the position that it is 
not what a person preaches or believes which is 
important but rather what a person does. In 
other words, it is not the faith with which one 
believes nor the content of the doctrines of the 
faith believed which are important, but the 
ethical and moral implications and applications 
of such faith in practical life. 


I fully appreciate why this is a problem for the 
editor because it is the very core of the Christian 
message - the scandal of the Christian gospel. It 
is not what we do which makes us religious, 
Christian, or wins us salvation, but it is our 
trusting in God’s grace in Jesus Christ. It is our 
response to the life, ministry, death, and resur¬ 
rection of Jesus Christ which is at the heart of 
Christianity. This does not mean that ethics are 
unimportant but rather that morality and service, 
practical Christian living, are a consequential 
responsibility in light of God’s grace. In other 
words, ethical behaviour, while at the very 
centre of the Christian faith, is nonetheless not 
the foundation of such faith but rather its fruit - 
faith being lived out as love in life. Word and 
deed must be kept together and not separated 
as in the editorial: “Children need to know that 
the measure of a spiritual or religious person 
lies in WHAT A PERSON DOES, not in how a 
person preaches”. While this sounds like an 
admirable statement to many, it separates what 
the Christian faith seeks to keep together - word 
and deed; message and action. 

The editorial is concerned that too much 
emphasis on the word, message, doctrine, or 
what is preached tends to obscure the respon¬ 
sibility of living out love and justice in the world. 
That is true! But equally problematic is too great 
an emphasis on ethics and living out faith at the 
expense of sound theology and preaching. We 
need a balanced approach to religious faith. The 
church is called to worship and proclaim Jesus 
Christ and to participate in God's working in the 
world. But without sound theological thinking 
and preaching, what a person does will not in 
any way be meaningful. One theologian puts it 
this way: 

Often we hear people say that it is not 
what a person believes, it is what he/she 
does that is important. This is a half-truth, 
but like all half-truths it is dangerous. It is 
half true because, from the Christian 
viewpoint, theological thinking is not an 
end in itself. Christianity is to be lived; it is 
to issue in action; as long as it remains 
merely thought it is unchristian and futile. 

But it is a half-ir uth because whatever a 
person does depends upon what he/she 
thinks and hold of ultimate value. (W.E. 
Hordern, A Layman's Guide To Protestant 
Theologtf. 

We must teach children, therefore, to measure 
a person by actions and words; the measure of 
worth is in how a person lives and in how a 
person thinks, what he/she believes, what 
he/she preaches. In this way, the Bible promotes 
faith and love. Camp programming ought to 
reflect both. And religious faith and commitment 
will be seen to include reasonable thinking and 
ethical living, but also much more. 

III. Religious Institutions and Society 

One further concern I have comes in what I 


12 


STANDING ORDERS - FOR US? 


by: Mary Casey, R.N. 

We are all becoming more and more concerned 
about the legal aspects of camping. There is a 
particular problem in the area of ‘‘health care” 
since camps make use of a variety of health care 
workers and so the legal requirements are not 
always clear. This article is of special concern to 
camps where Registered Nurses are giving 
health care without a resident physician. 

All Registered Nurses working without a 
physician on site require guidelines for treat¬ 
ment which have been approved by a physician 
- these guidelines are called STANDING 
ORDERS. In the interest of safety and time, it is 
essential to have standard procedures set up. 
Nurses may well be able to formulate good pro¬ 
cedures and retain these in their minds for 
future use, but the legal position of the nurse 
and the camp is in question unless such direc¬ 
tives are written and the camp physician has 
signed them indicating his/her approval. Itisthe 
writer's opinion that this is a wise and necessary 
procedure even when a physician is on site. 

Standing Orders are developed by the nurse 
with the assistance of the director and appro¬ 
priate health care professionals, i.e. surgeons, 
pediatricians, pharmacists, nurses. If you have 
not already done it, start now to develop or 
revise your Standing Orders while the consul¬ 
tants you need are available. It is preferable to 
do this task in September when the summer 
problems are fresh in your mind and the nurses' 
suggestions are current. 

Standing Orders for your camp should be 
developed using the following principles: 


1. Good aseptic technique. 

2. Current accepted treatment of illness and 
accidents. 

3. Simplicity of treatment. 

4. Teaching of sound health practices. 

5. Cost control where possible. 

Standing Orders, for the use of the Registered 
Nurse at camp, consist of the following three 
units: 

1. Written protocols for the treatment of illness 
and accidents occurring on and off the camp¬ 
site. 

2. Written medical directives related to the ad¬ 
ministration of all non-prescription, oral or 
injectable medications used at camp. These 
directives should include - the name of the 
medication, the indications for its use, the 
dosage and frequency of use and the route of 
administration. 

3. The annual signature of the camp physician 
indicating his/her approval. 

Examples of Standing Orders 

ILLNESS AND ACCIDENTS 

Abdominal Pain 

Persistant abdominal pain, with or without 
nausea, vomiting, diarrhea or fever, is appendi¬ 
citis until ruled out by the physician. Ask about 
any injury. 

Treatment - no food or fluid 

- in bed, warm and quiet 

- no laxative: constipation rare! 

- see physician at least within 
6 hours. 


MEDICATIONS 
Medication 
Aspirin (325 mg). 

Indications for use 

Headache, earache, toothache, menstrual pain. 
Dosage 

Adult: 1-2 tablets every 4 hours by mouth. 

Child: 1 tablet every 4 hours by mouth. 

It can be seen that the development of Stand¬ 
ing Orders requires considerable time and effort 
but once they are formulated, it is no problem to 
review them each year and make necessary 
changes. The initial effort is well worth it in 
providing the camp administration and the 
nurses with some assurance of legal backing. 
The values of Standing Orders are as follows: 

1. Standing Orders, signed by the camp physi¬ 
cian, are a legal requirement of a Registered 
Nurse. 

2. Standing Orders ensure continuity of care 
throughout the summer - nurse to nurse, 
nurse to doctor, doctor to nurse. 

3. Standing Orders facilitate control and econ¬ 
omy in purchasing of health care supplies. 

4. Standing Orders provide valuable information 
for out-trippers since the cover treatment for 
both illness and accidents. 

5. Standing Orders, developed in consultation 
with specialists in the health care field, pro¬ 
mote high quality health care. 

Are STANDING ORDERS for you? Yes, they 
are, if you have Registered Nurses giving health 
care at your camp. While you still have some 
quiet time to think, get your nurses together, 
approach the required health specialists and 
prepare Standing Orders for use next summer. 
You will soon realize their value. 


ARE YOG TAPING YOGR LEADERS? 

by: Bruno Morawetz, PhD., Archives Chairman, CCA 


Thanks to the inspiration of Helen Stewart, the 
Ontario Archives Chairman, here are a few 
ideas to inspire Provincial Associations to en¬ 
hance the archival activities. 

It is important to keep in mind that today’s daily 
events become important historical data in a 
short time. In order to record these events, it is a 
good idea to make use of tape recorders to tape 
interviews with individual Camp Directors and 
to tape addresses that are given at conferences 
and workshops. 

It is a good idea to set aside a filing cabinet or 
a spare drawer to house Minutes, copies of 
speeches, agendas, notices, etc. and to send 
copies to the CCA Archives at Trent University, 
Peterborough, if it is of national importance. 

It is also a good idea to take pictures at 


conferences and workshops and generally to 
stuff the brown “Archives Envelope” as often as 
possible. 

Provincial Associations should make their 
own camp members aware of the importance of 
storing their own material for their own pur¬ 
poses. 

The Ontario Archives Committee has just 
finished writing the history of the Ontario Camp¬ 
ing Association in a handsome booklet entitled 
“Blue Lake and Rocky Shore” to mark the 50th 
Anniversary of its founding and it is hoped that 
other provinces will start thinking about the 
writing of their own histories. (‘‘Blue Lake and 
Rocky Shore” is available from the CCA Book¬ 
store for $8.95 plus shipping). 



13 


File Photo 



Dispose of camp food 
^ service problems with 

ROYAL (ft ( t 
disposable plates and bowls 

Strong, attractive Royal CHINET food service products help you ... 

• DISPOSE OF DISHWASHING COSTS 

Cut the expense of installing, maintaining and manning equipment, 
that is used only a few months of the year. 

• DISPOSE OF BREAKAGE 

Save yourself the trouble and expense of buying matching replace¬ 
ments for pieces that crack, chip and shatter. 

• DISPOSE OF FOOD WASTE 

You get exact portion control with Royal CHINET’s wide range of 
sizes in regular and compartmented designs. 

• DISPOSE OF GERM COLLECTORS 

Royal CHINET products are sterilized when manufactured and 
packaged. And there’s never a germ-collecting chip, crack or 
poorly washed dish. 

• DISPOSE OF IRRITATING NOISE 

Disposable service is silent service. Meals are relaxed without the 
clatter and crash of china or metal. 

ENVIRONMENTAL ADVANTAGES, TOO 

All good campers want to protect the environment. Royal CHINET prod¬ 
ucts are manufactured from a renewable resource. What's more, they’re 
biodegradable ... molded of natural wood fibres that burn readily with 
little smoke. Even if discarded out-of-doors, Royal CHINET quickly de¬ 
composes in the earth. 

Get the full particulars now. Mail this coupon today. 


CKF Inc. 

HANTSPORT, NOVA SCOTIA, BOP 1PO 

Please provide me with details of the variety and costs of Royal 
CHINET food service products. 

NAME_ 

COMPANY or CAMP_ 

ADDRESS _ 

*■ ■ CITY-PROV 










THE LAST WORD! 


CAMPING... 

I am tired of the articles on sexuality, homosex¬ 
uality, masturbation and virginity. Surely to 
goodness this magazine could focus on the 
great things that are going on in Canadian 
Camps - the great things that people in camping 
are accomplishing. I for one feel the focus of this 
magazine is all wrong and I hope to see a 
change of content in future magazines. 

Jane McCutcheon 
Business Manager 
Camp Tawingo 
Huntsville, Ontario 

Your letter is rather curious! It reminds me of the 
story of the 11 year-old boy sitting in a psychia¬ 
trist's office: the psychiatrist was showing him 
ink-blots and when the first card was flashed, 
the boy said he saw “breasts"; without showing 
a reaction, the psychiatrist flashed the second 
card and again the boy said he saw “breasts". 
This occurred repeated until the psychiatrist 
became flustered and yelled at the boy “you've 
really got a problem!” The boy shot back: “Me? 
You're the one who's showing me the dirty 
pictures!" 

The point, first of all, is that our perceptions 
and our attentions are selective in nature - we 
see what we want to see, we highlight that 
which is important to us, that which fills our 
needs most. Your letter says more about you 
than it does about Canadian Camping!!have, as 
editor, not avoided sexuality or homosexuality 
as social issues which are important and critical 
to us as leaders working with young people 
today (my involvement began at a Director's 
Conference in Bolton around 1978 where-so 
much ignorance was flying around the room 
that I was ASKED to prepare a session on 
sexuality and homosexuality); however, I serious¬ 
ly don't “weigh" their significance or magnitude 
as importantly as you. Bear witness to these 
facts: in three years, I have written editorials on 
Camp Director Certification, Competition vs. 
Co-operation: Values in Turmoil, the Inaudible 
Voice of Camping, the problem of alcohol abuse 
among camp staff, Lest We Forget Our Purpose, 
the importance of self-esteem, Cults + Camps = 
Death, acid rain and the environment, integra¬ 
tion of the disabled, the Bible Tells Me So and 
currently, A Question of Fitness! I published 
interviews I held with Charles Plewman, June 
Labbett, May Brown, John Latimer, Marjorie 
Booth and Leo Buscaglia. 

Our feature articles over the past three years 
are impressive: Risk Factor in Outdoor Pursuits 
(Mike Budd), Mountaineering (Bruce Elkin), 
South Pacific Report (Kirk Wipper), The Impor¬ 
tance of the Unimportant (Bruno Morawetz), A 
Challenging Summer (Barbara Stuber), In Clos¬ 
ing (Kenneth Bagnell), Spring Cleaning (Mary 
Casey), Camper Motivation (Diane Blair), Loons 
(Pam Robbins), The Cult Crisis (Ian Haworth), 
Personal Growth (Walter Tose), Christian and 
Church Camping (John Vissers), B.C. Leadership 
Camp (Dave Adair), Volunteer Leaders (Marjorie 
Booth), Acid Rain (Jeff Reading), Environmental 
Education (Rick Ireland), Power of the Person 


(Bruce Elkin), Real Programs for Real People 
(Rick Ireland), United Church Sexuality Report 
(James Taylor), Le Comite des camps depres¬ 
sion frangaise (Colette Pouliot-Marier), Focus 
on Pre-Camp: The Camper (Catherine Ross), 
National Lifeguard Service Certification (Kelly 
Lendsay), Kidney Kids (Dave Sands), Rabies 
(Harry Ebbs). 

In addition, we have received dozens of con¬ 
ference reports, updates, announcements, 
poems, menu ideas, photographs and provincial 
news. Ian Fowler (N.B.) has been especially 
supportive and is a strong contributor; Michael 
Kenny (Alta.) has written book reports and the 
list of volunteers goes on and on. 

I write an Advisory column on ANY topic; John 
Latimer writes Group Dynamics Exercises; our 
Letters-To-The-Editor continue to grow show¬ 
ing diverse opinions on many camping issues. 

I cannot share your sentiment that the "focus 
of the magazine is all wrong"; I have spoken 
recently in B.C., Alberta, Manitoba, Ontario, 
Nova Scotia and Cape Breton Island to many 
camping groups and their overwhelming con¬ 
sensus seems to be that the magazine is both 
stimulating and informative. 

Tawingo was very fortunate a few years ago to 
have had Mickey Johnstone as a leader - 
Mickey is a nationally renowned educator on 
sexuality, values and youth development. The 
importance of teaching and imparting sexual 
values, respect and responsibility should be 
abundantly clear at your camp, having had 
Mickey's leadership in this sensitive area. Other 
camps across the country have not been as 
fortunate and indeed welcome the discussion, 
theory and opinion matters relating to social/ 
sexual/emotional growth and development. 


Another reason I respond to your letter with a 
tinge of puzzlement lies in the fact that you were 
the central CCA Vice-President when I became 
editor of Canadian Camping and I continually 
implored you (and others) to use Canadian 
Camping as YOUR VOICE to communicate to 
our vast membership. Despite the hundreds of 
thousands of words submitted, Jane McCut¬ 
cheon submitted nothing! Three years later, 
your first submission is a criticism of the integrity 
and focus of the magazine and its many contri¬ 
butors. I feel this is unjust, unwarranted and 
indeed misguided! As a Teaching Master in 
Psychology with a specialization in gender and 
sexuality, obviously some content will be ex¬ 
pressed which won't please everybody and will 
perhaps be novel to many- but most people are 
happy to be challenged, to debate, to discuss, to 
grow. Perhaps part of the reason some people 
tend to selectively perceive that excessive atten¬ 
tion is devoted to sexuality (and therefore keeps 
it a volatile topic) is precisely because not 
enough discussion has taken place to reduce it 
to another matter-of-fact area in life, love and 
camping. 

If you are interested in focusing on “the great 
things that people in camping are accomplish¬ 
ing” (as you state in your letter), why don't you 
help by contributing an article for Canadian 
Camping on some of those “great things"? 
Canadian Camping welcomes and needs con¬ 
tributions from people who are willing to take a 
stand and have something to say. Please strive 
to be a part of it because Canadian Camping is 
not just your voice and my voice but rather our 
vehicle for communicating camping and related 
issues to all those who read it. 



15 



Canadian camping association 
association dcs camps da Canada 




SUITE 2 1006 AVENUE ROAD 
TORONTO ONTARIO M5M 3Z1 


VOL 36, NO. 3 
AUTUMN 1984 
ISSN 008-3119 


Jeunesse en forme Canada 

un programme de tests de condition physique 
pour les jeunes de 7 a 17 ans 

Pourquoi participer a 
Jeunesse en forme Canada? 



Cam 


• Facile a administrer 

• Minimum d’equipement necessaire 

• Normes de performance nationales 
utilisees a des fins de comparaison 

• Prix 

-excellence (ecusson et certificat), 
ecussons or, argent et bronze 

-carte d’identite format porte- 
monnaie 

-Certificat de participation a 
chacun des groupes qui participe 
au programme 

• Gratuit! 

-le programme, les tests et les prix 
sont tous gratuits 

Vous voulez en savoir davantage? 

• Ecrivez a: Jeunesse en forme Canada 

365-ouest avenue Laurier 
Ottawa (Ontario) * 

K1A0X6 




Canada Fitness Award 

a fitness testing program for youth 
7 to 17 years 


Why participate in the 
Canada Fitness Award? 

• Easy to administer 

• Little equipment needed 

• National Performance Standards for 
comparison 

• Awards 

-excellence (crest and certificate), 
gold, silver, bronze crests 
-wallet-size I.D. card 
-Certificate of Participation to each 
youth group using program 

• Free! 

-all program, testing and award 
materials are free of charge 

Want more information? 

• Write to: Canada Fitness Award 

365 Laurier Ave. W. 

Ottawa, Ontario 
K1A 0X6 


■ * 


Gouvernement du Canada Government of Canada 

Condition physique et Sport amateur Fitness and Amateur Sport 


■* 


Government of Canada 
Fitness and Amateur Sport 


Gouvernement du Canada 
Condition physique et Sport amateur 


16 







