

IN THIS ISSUE 


- Editorial 

- Energy Tips 

- Interview with C.F. Plewman 

- Food 

- Creek Running 
and more ... 


Photo Courtesy Camp Tawingo 









EDITORIAL 

Camp Director Certification: 

THE TIME IS NOW! 

Doctors are licensed to practise their profession. 

Teachers are certified before entering a classroom. 

Nurses are registered before being allowed to care for patients. 

Yet, just about anyone is allowed to direct a camp and care for other people’s children. This is not right! 

There are no national standards as to the professional qualifications of a camp director; some provinces have 
age, education or experience requirements but does this ensure that camp directors are capable and qualified 
to care for the children of our consuming public? Certainly not. 

While one may argue that certification or regulation will not prevent inadequate leadership, as an associa¬ 
tion, are we being responsible in allowing this to continue without any recourse to disciplinary action or expul¬ 
sion from the profession? 

Let’s look at certification (or regulation). We see this process as two-fold: 

1) The successful completion of a specified curriculum (or its equivalent) 

AND 

2) An experiential component or internship in an organized camp setting. 

A curriculum related to camp director certification might include: 

• needs of children 

• needs of staff 

• hiring and development of staff 

• health and safety considerations 

• camp administration and people management 

• understanding and implementation of camp philosophy 

• food services 

«... this is just a beginning 

While many professions are self-regulatory and therefore “police” their own members, the camping profes¬ 
sion as it stands now does not. This situation opens up the very real possibility - in fairness to the public - of 
the imposition of regulations on us by the government. The responsibility rests with us - the time is now! • 


CONTENTS __ 

Winter 1982 _ 

4 Interview: Charles Plewman 

by Jay Haddad 

5 Regional News 

by George Matthews (East) 

Jane McCutcheon (Centre) 

Gary Luthy (West) 

6 A Place To Start: Running Creeks, Mountaineering 
and Personal Power 

by Bruce Elkin 

8 Group Dynamics Exercise 
by Jay Haddad 


_ Vol.33, No.6 

9 Planning Workshop Report 
by Dlnny Biggs 

10 International Camping Congress 

by Henri Audet 

11 The Risk Factor in Outdoor Pursuits 

by Mike Budd 

13 Book Reviews/Publication News 


14 From the Environment Committee 
by Peter Rasberry 


Editorial Policy 


The ideas expressed in the Editorial are those of the Editorial Committee and not necessarily those of the Canadian 
Camping Association/Association des Camps du Canada. The views are expressed to provide stimulation and com¬ 
ment. We Invite you to respond in “Letters to the Editor” which we hope will be a regular feature. • 


This Association gratefully acknowledges ■ ^ Government of Canada Gouvemement du Canada 

the financial support of ■ T Fitness and Amateur Sport Condition physique et Sport amateur 


2 



Letters to the Editor 


Dear Canadian Camping: 

This summer I plan to take my family 
on a camping trip through the western 
provinces for one month. Please forward 
your directory of tent and trailer camp¬ 
grounds at your earliest convenience. 

Thank you. 

Robert R 

Dear Robert: 

Thank you for your interest in the 
Canadian Camping Association/ 
Association des Camps du Canada. 

From the enclosed brochure, you will see 
that we do not represent tent and trailer 
parks in Canada. For this kind of travel 
information you should contact the 
provincial, territorial or federal tourist 
offices in the areas you plan to visit. 

We hope that you will enjoy your visit to 
Canada. Please contact us again if we can 
assist you in choosing a Member Camp for 
you or your child. 


Dear Canadian Camping: 

I am a student, aged 17, and I’m looking for 
work in a summer camp as a counsellor. 

I attended camp as a camper when I lived 
In Nova Scotia a few years ago. 

Last summer I worked as a mother’s 
helper and looked after two young 
children. This summer I would really like to 
work in another province. Please send me 
your staff application or the list of camps 
where I might apply. 

Yours truly, 

Lucy L 

Dear Lucy: 

Thank you for your interest in working at a 
CCA/ACC Member Camp this year. 

Each provincial association uses a 
different method to disseminate infor¬ 
mation on potential staff to their 
membership. Please forward a one-page 
resume of your experience and 
qualifications to the appropriate provincial 
office. The volunteer responsible in each 
association will circulate the information 
needed by Camp Directors still needing 
staff. Enclosed Is a brochure about our 
association with a list of all the provincial 
camping association offices. 

Best wishes in your endeavour to find a 
staff position at a CCA/ACC Camp. 


CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 
ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU CANADA 

Canadian Camping Association National Office 
Association Des Camps Du Canada Si&ge Sociale 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
Telephone: (416) 781-4717 

British Columbia Camping Association 
1200 Hornby Street 
Vancouver, B.C. V6Z1Z2 
Telephone: (604) 879-5108 

Alberta Camping Association 

c/o Y.M.C.A. 

3326th Avenue S.W. 

Calgary, Alberta T2P 0R5 
Telephone: (403) 269-6156 

Saskatchewan Camping Association 
c/o Saskatchewan Y.M.CA 
25 - 22 Street E. 

Saskatoon, Sask. S7K 0C7 
Telephone: (306) 652-7515 ex SCA 


Manitoba Camping Association 
Admin. Centre for Recreation and Sport 
1700 Ellice Avenue 
Winnipeg, Manitoba R3H 0B1 
Telephone: (204) 786-5641 

Ontario Camping Association 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
Telephone: (416) 781-0525 

Association des Camps du Quebec 
1415 est rue Jarry 
Montreal, Qudbec H2E 2Z7 
T6l6phone: (514) 374-4700 ex 447 

New Brunswick Camping Association 

Dunlop Lane 

Saint John, N.B. E2L3C9 

Nova Scotia Camping Association 
Box 3243 S. 

Halifax, N.S. B3J 3H5 
Telephone: (902) 424-4329 

Newfoundland and Labrador Camping Association 
Box 4188 

St. John’s, Nfld. A1C 5Z7 


3 



INTERVIEW 


Jay Haddad interviewed Charles Plewman 
in 1976 at his Haliburton rest home; the 
following are excerpts from that interview: 

August 15,1976 

CCA: Let’s go right back to 1932 and your 
first experiences with Kilcoo. 

CP: Prior to 1932 at 42 years of age when I 
first started Kilcoo, I had 22 years of organ¬ 
ized camping under my belt with the 
Y.M.C.A. in Ottawa at Golden Lake and Win¬ 
nipeg at Lake of the Woods. I also directed 
22 camps for the Ontario Boys Work Board - 
those 22 camps, by the way, were held in 
about 22 different locations all over Ontario. 

In 1932, when I first saw the bay on Gull 
Lake, which was to become Kilcoo, I must 
admit it was a case of love at first sight. Try¬ 
ing hard not to let my emotions run away, I 
continued looking at potential camp sites 
from Minden all the way to Dorset, but my 
heart kept pulling me back to that sight on 
Gull Lake. 

CCA: What were your toughest years? 

CP: Actually, 1940. The Red Cross co-opted 
me as Secretary of the Toronto branch; this 
meant I had to lean heavily on Ed Devitt, my 
Programme Director. My first crisis arose in 
1945 when Ed departed the scene; he was 
closer than I to most of the campers and 
parents and this meant I had to turn to Staff 
for support. I found the main support com¬ 
ing from a gregarious and immaculate 15 
year old named John Latimer, a friendly boy 
who always got along with everyone and 
especially with the campers. But John was 
too young, not responsibility-wise, but age- 
wise, and because of my commitments to 
the Red Cross, I found myself hiring about 4 
or 5 Directors in a period of about 4 or 5 
years. This was not a good thing. To bring a 
man who didn’t understand your mores, your 
customs, your tradition, and had no real 
Kilcoo blood in his veins, placed authority 
over people who had been there for several 
years... well, it was bad business, that’s all. 
No, my philosophy is that I’d jump over a 
hurdle of pretty serious proportions to use a 
man from the camp that knew the place 
from the ground up. 

CCA: Mr. Plewman, when was your very first 
camp experience? 

CP: I first went to camp in 1903 on Lake 
Couchiching at the Y.M.C.A. camp; that was 
my first camp experience. 

In 1913, at the age of 23,1 was asked to go 
to Ottawa as Boys’ Work Secretary - I was 
foolish enough to say ‘yes’. Through there I 
got into camping - Ondadawa hadn’t oper¬ 
ated for a half dozen years because of the 
Depression and I directed that camp, follow¬ 
ed by Lake of the Woods. 

From there I went into camping for the 
Boys’ Work Board, until it folded in 1932 
because of lack of support from the deno¬ 
minations - from there, of course, I went on 
to found Kilcoo. 



Charles F. Plewman 
1890 -1981 


With regret we must announce the 
passing of Charles Plewman on Decem¬ 
ber 28, 1981. Mr. Plewman was an 
Honourary Member and Past President 
of the Ontario Camping Association. He 
founded Camp Kilcoo in 1932 after ex¬ 
tensive experience with boys work in 
the Y.M.C.A. in Winnipeg and Ottawa as 
well as the Boys’ Work Board in Ontario. 


CCA: In your years in Ottawa, was there any¬ 
thing that resembled an organized body of 
camping people? 

CP: There wasn’t an association or a 
shadow of an association in Canada - 
everything that has happened in organized 
camping in this country has happened since 
I was born. 

CCA: How did organized camping get 
started in Canada? 

CP: The beginnings are still hazy with some 
people, but not with me. You see, fathers 
would go out canoeing with their sons - 
after all, the canoe was the main method of 
navigation in this country for 100 years - one 
didn’t have roads. So canoeing was in our 
blood; then along comes a guy like Coch¬ 
rane (and others) who says: “I’ll run some 
boys on a canoe trip”, without any thought 
of running a camp at all. The next thing you 
know, you feel it’s nice to come in after 10 
days in the bush and have a little different 
programme, refuel, re-stock and go out 
again. Camps started as a supply base for 
canoe trips. And that’s the way organized 
camping, I believe, started in this country. 

CCA: Not through the Churches? 

CP: Well, there are those who say that 
camping originated through church camps 
but those church camps were evangelical 
types that went way back into the 1800’s - 
the whole family paddled up and went out 
for 10 days and slept in a tent. A glorious 
revival time but there was no semblance to 
organized camping for youth to gather 
together. 


CCA: What about the beginnings of the 
camping associations - was it Ontario in¬ 
itially? 

CP: Yes, about 19301 was asked to sit in with 
a group - there were about 4 or 5 people 
there; they were meeting and went down to 
the States once a year to the American 
Camping Association Convention. We were 
a part of one of the A.C.A. units, along with 
many other units from the northern states. 

Once I had started Kilcoo, after 1932, 
Taylor Statten called me in with a group and 
we started talking about organizing in 
Canada - pulling out of the U.S. situation. 
The issue here - because we were all private 
camp directors - was whether we were con¬ 
cerned with private camps or the broader 
scope to include agency camps. We had 
broader visions and wanted to include both 
camps; you see, though, agencies in the first 
10 or 15 years didn’t play too much of a role 
... nothing like today. 

CCA: When did Ontario break from the 
American association and attain autonomy? 

CP: No one seems to be sure of the date - 
mind you, it was around 1930, 31 or 32. The 
two main spearheading people were Taylor 
Statten and Mary Edgar - two dedicated 
“movement” people who believed the organ¬ 
ization shouldn’t be limited but should be as 
big as the scope of camping itself. 

We went for a number of years and it was 
Taylor, again, who said “I think it’s time to 
organize nationally.” This was just a brain 
wave; we knew nothing about camps out¬ 
side of Ontario. 

We did know there were camps in 
Quebec, so we invited them to a meeting 
and we all met in Ottawa and decided to 
have a Canadian Camping Association - 
and Taylor Statten was its first President. He 
had a lot of charisma - both Americans and 
Canadians took to him as he was their 
(A.C.A.) President too. 

CCA: And from Ontario and Qudbec? Then 
where? 

CP: Then we started to branch out - I got out 
the first bulletin which was the forerunner of 
the Canadian Camping magazine. I felt we 
didn’t even know each other in Ontario - we 
had to find out where all these camps were 
and let’s bring them all together through 
communications. 

CCA: Have you seen obvious changes in 
camp directing and camping in general? 

CP: In the earlier days, the camp director 
played the role of a star - not a team player 
but an individual star. Nowadays, the best 
camps are those which operate as a whole 
team; camps in which the Director is impor¬ 
tant and influential, but he doesn’t take the 
primary role or play to the limelight with his 
“bag of tricks” that he can perform. Camps 
were built around Directors in earlier days, 
but camps today are built around the team, 
the camp’s reputation, the camp’s pro¬ 
gramme. The role has definitely changed in 
this regard. 

A lot of people don’t realize that boys’ 
camps were operating in 1894 and ’95 but it 
was 20 years after that that girls even camp¬ 
ed. That’s quite a long period! Girls were 


4 



supposed to be able to faint at the right time 
- they were supposed to have lily-white 
hands - to go out and rough it in the woods 
for a lady was unheard of! In my first days of 
camping, they wouldn’t let anyone with 
skirts in the camp - not even the cookhouse 
or kitchen - it had to be a man. A woman’s 
place in society has changed so much - 
well, you know, camps allowed females to 
grow in the out-of-doors and camps were in 
the forefront of this change. I remember 
when Taylor Statten’s chief financial sup¬ 
porter discovered that he was going to run a 

girl’s camp on the SAME lake as the boys’ 
camp, he nearly hit the roof. He said “Don’t 
do it, Taylor, don’t do it - you’re making a big 
mistake”. This was before anything known 
as co-ed camping! As soon as you add 
females, though, as we found out, to this 
male experience, you are adding a new 
dimension - it’s an improved quality. It’s a 
reflection of the reality of our society - and 
it’s healthy. 


CCA: Any final words on the Canadian 
Camping Association? 

CP: I would like to say that I think John 
Latimer gave the C.C.A. for the first time 
when he was President, the appearance of a 
living organism with flesh and blood. Before, 
it was an organization, yes, but lacking in 
heart, in some ways cold and indifferent. 
When John took over the Association by 
visiting and getting around, he poured flesh 
and blood into it - he made it come to life! 

Let’s hope that his successors will not let 
it die - all you have to do is stop seeing peo¬ 
ple for one year, stop going around our coun¬ 
try, stop being nationally minded and you’re 
in trouble. John’s biggest contribution was 
to humanize the C.C.A. and I hope it will re¬ 
main strong. 

CCA: Thank you very much for chatting with 
us. 


CP: You better take a good look at me 
because I’m a product of the Victorian era - 
still living and still kicking. With two excep¬ 
tions, I’m the only one left of our group of 
camping pioneers - it’s a lonely feeling at 
times. • 

The CCA/ACC Archives are located at Trent 
University. The Oral History Interview Tapes 
reflect the efforts of many volunteers to 
record the history of the camping movement 
in Canada. Anyone wishing further informa¬ 
tion on the CCA/ACC Archives should com¬ 
municate his specific area of interest to: 

Mr. Ken Johnson, Archivist 
Thomas J. Bata Library 
Trent University 
Peterborough, Ontario 
K9J 7B8 
(705) 748-1413 


Eastern Region News Central Region News 


Ian Fowler, NBCA Vice President, reports 
that things are rolling along in New Bruns¬ 
wick. The membership in the Camping 
Association has increased this year 
(based on their provincial statistics). Pre¬ 
sident Debbie Cooper has been working 
diligently with her NBCA Executive to 
maintain good services for the member¬ 
ship - it’s obviously paying off! 

In Newfoundland and Labrador, the 
association is busy with their winter acti¬ 
vities. Kevin Moore confirmed that the 
NLCA Camp Counsellors’ Course is again 
being offered in conjunction with 
Memorial University’s Extension Dept. 

Nova Scotia just held their fall seminar 
which attracted several delegates. The 
main focus was camp administration and 
management. The CCA/ACC Board parti¬ 
cipated at this event which was scheduled 
in tandem with the recent National Board 
Meeting. CANS President, George Mat¬ 
thews did a terrific job of recruiting many 
bale volunteers to carry out this training 
event. 


Photo Courtesy Blue Lake Centre 


Conference Time is Approaching for both 
the Quebec and Ontario Camping crowds. 
March of 1982 sees the Ontario Camping 
Association Membership gather in Toronto, 
while the folks from the Association des 
Camps du Quebec prepare for an event in 
Laval. 

“Though We Are Small, Stand By Us Tall” 
is the theme of the Ontario Conference, 
which is being held at the Skyline Hotel, 
March 11-13. The program promises to bean 
exciting one, and all will look forward to the 
banquet speech by our own John Latimer. 

The CCA/ACC Executive will have the pri¬ 
vilege of attending the A.C.Q. Conference, 
March 18-20. Some even have the pleasure 
of presenting sessions to the conference 
delegates! Committee Chairmen from the 
Central Region are hard at work on various 
CCA/ACC endeavours. Marnie Ellis, our 
Public Relations and Promotion Chairman, 
and an active A.C.Q. member has the chal¬ 
lenge of heading up a National Workshop on 
Promotion, scheduled to coincide with the 
CCA/ACC’s biggest event ever, our 1983 In¬ 
ternational Camping Congress. Plan now to 
attend! 

All in all, people seem busier than ever 
preparing for these very important leader¬ 
ship opportunities. Good luck to you all. 
Happy conferencing!!! 



Western Region 
News 

Terry Burkhalter, President of the Mani¬ 
toba Camping Association recently 
chaired a Promotions Workshop Planning 
Session- at the National Board Meeting. 
Terry and Marnie Ellis, CCA/ACC P.R. and 
Promotion Chairman, worked with the 
Board to identify specific abjectives for 
this event which is scheduled for January 
1983. 

Mike Walters recently moved to Calgary 
and therefore the Saskatchewan Camping 
Association is recruiting a new President 
from its ranks. Jack Croteau, former Skills 
School Chairman (for the CCA/ACC) repre¬ 
sented the SCA at the Board Meeting and 
extended a warm invitation to the Board 
for the CCA/ACC Annual Meeting at Camp 
Rayner, April 30 - May 2, 1982. A recent 
newsletter from John Bosco Camp an¬ 
nounced that John Boutin has retired from 
the camp director’s portfolio. Father 
Boutin has contributed so much to camp¬ 
ing in Saskatchewan - keep in touch, 
John, we still need your enthusiasm! 

Alberta is gearing up for their annual 
Directors’ Conference. The planners ex¬ 
pect a large attendance at the Red Deer 
event, February 4-7, 1981 with a large 
number of skills and administration ses¬ 
sions offered. 

The British Columbia Camping Associa¬ 
tion has been actively rebuilding their 
committee structure. Lome Bowering, 
BCCA President reports that they are 
meeting regularly and are currently in the 
process of analyzing their standards and 
accreditation program with financial 
assistance from the provincial govern¬ 
ment. The BCCA membership have been 
surveyed to establish priorities for ses¬ 
sion topics for an upcoming spring work¬ 
shop. • 





A PLACE TO START: 

RUNNING CREEKS, MOUNTAINEERING AND PERSONAL POWER 

By: Bruce Elkin, Assistant Director - Programs, Rocky Mountain Y.M.C.A. 



It was late morning. We had hiked in from 
the road-head, set up our lean-to’s and were 
basking in the sun on a large sand bar in the 
middle of the stream. On either side of us 
the valley swept up to long, rocky ridges. Up 
the valley, Mount Fable thrust its snow¬ 
capped summit toward the sun, its melting 
snow forming this creek which now flowed 
noisily around us. 

“What are we going to do today?”, one of 
the kids asked. 

“Start mountaineering”, I replied. 

“Really? Already? Wow! Where?”, various 
voices called out. 

“Right here”, I answered, indicating the 
swiftly moving creek. 

“In the creek?”, someone asked, incredu- 
ously. 

“That’s right”, I replied, grinning slightly, 
“in the creek”. 

They were all staring at me, wondering, no 
doubt, what kind of weirdo they had got 
themselves hooked up with. “Mountaineer¬ 
ing in a creek?” “This guy must be a couple 
of bricks short of a full load”. But, that is 
what we were going to do, start by running 
the boulders strewn along this creek. 

We were fourteen eager-but-new-to-the- 
mountains teenagers, three enthusiastic 
staff and a director with odd ideas. Camped 
in Exshaw Valley in the Alberta Rockies, we 
were embarking on a twenty-two day “ex¬ 
perience in personal and environmental ex¬ 
ploration” known as Earth Ways sponsored 
by the Rocky Mountain YMCA. We had set 
ourselves three tasks. Turn these kinds on to 
the mountains, to the excitement, the mys¬ 
tery, the joy of travelling in wild places. En¬ 
courage them as well, to begin exploring the 
“inner wilds” - examining their personal ac¬ 
tions, their experience and the connections 
between them. Mainly we wanted them to 
have fun, building confidence and compe¬ 
tence - a sense of personal effectiveness - 
in an environment that encouraged initiative 
and personal responsibility. 

We hoped to accomplish those aims, in 
part, through challenging physical activi¬ 
ties. Our program was designed to produce 
feelings of personal accomplishment - “I 
did it”. We hoped that a lot of l-did-it exper¬ 
iences in a wide variety of activities would 
yield a generalized new sense of personal 
effectiveness - “I can do! ”. So'we did a lot of 
new things: we hiked in the back country, 
waded through marshes, climbed Douglas 
Firs, explored glaciers, swam in icy lakes, 
built bridges over what seemed like raging 
torrents, and shelters out of polyethylene 
sheets. We spent hours in silent, motionless 
observation of the natural world. We cooked 
pizzas and fresh fruit pies over campfires, 
asked hard-to-answer questions, wrote 
poetry in our journals and spent three soul 
searching days alone on a solo. Mainly we 
moved through the mountains - those mag¬ 
nificent temples of time - the Rockies. 


We were not a climbing camp but we did 
want to introduce the kids to the basics of 
classic mountaineering as a way of adding 
to the mountain experience. We wanted 
them to experience the thrill and pride that 
comes from standing on the summit of a 
peak scaled by one’s own efforts. To gaze 
out over the endless ranges receding into 
the distance and say “I’m here; I did it; on 
my own.” 

We wanted to challenge the kids, but not 
to threaten anyone. We also wanted to avoid 
the “hot dog syndrome”. We didn’t want to 
turn out any one-day-wonder “rock-jocks” 
who always seem “to get the words, but 
don’t quite get the tune”. We decided to use 
a progressive approach. Start with the 
basics, then apply them through bouldering, 
rock climbing and ridge climbs on nearby 
peaks. 

Most climbing/mountaineering programs 
I had been involved with had started with a 
“rock school”. Top-roped, face climbing on 
easy, walk-off-the top cliffs. The rock school 
approach would not be enough to facilitate 
the self-directed exploration approach we 
were taking overall. I figured that there must 
be a better way to begin mountaineering 
than having kids standing, nervously, at the 
bottom of a cliff face, waiting for a turn on 
rope. It involved too much teaching and tell¬ 
ing for me. In my search for a better way I 
discovered an article by Doug Robinson in 
an old Chinouard catalogue. Entitled “Run¬ 
ning Talus” it spoke very clearly to what I 
had been feeling. 

Robinson advocated beginning moun¬ 
taineering on the huge, jumbled piles of 
talus that form at the base of big cliffs. Hop¬ 
ping from boulder to boulder, gradually pick¬ 
ing up speed as ability and confidence in¬ 
crease. Running, jumping, boldly leaping 
across the tops of boulders builds basics 
that are often given short shift in standard 
rock school approaches. “Talus running is 
one of the best exercises to begin mountain¬ 
eering with, yet it is so simple that it is usual¬ 
ly overlooked”. 


Talus piles are rare in the limestone Front 
Ranges of the Rockies. So we looked for a 
good substitute. We found a great one in the 
boulder-strewn creek beds of the glaciated 
side valleys. Running creeks turned out to 
be more fun and challenging than talus. The 
added dimension of water flowing under 
foot adds to the excitement, increases the 
challenge. The rocks can be slippery and 
tricky in places. The water can throw you off, 
spoiling your concentration. It adds a kind of 
psychological “exposure” without adding 
danger. It keeps the runner honest. “Boot¬ 
fuls” - telltale signs of a misstep - are to be 
avoided at all cost. Creek runners will make 
truly amazing moves to keep from touching 
down in the water. Keep moving, keep dry, 
do the impossible if necessary. 

So, off we go. Our plan is to wander up the 
creek bed, taking it easy, picking up the feel 
of creek running. We’ll explore a little, have a 
picnic, then run back down. All on the 
boulders in the creek. The only preparations 
involve checking to see that everyone has 
mountain boots or a solid pair of sneakers. 
(Soft rubber soles are best. Galibier “wet 
rock” vibram and old Nike Waffles stick like 
glue. Old, comfortable E.B.’s give you 
wings). Tucking lunch and first-aid kits into 
day packs, we head off. No instruction. No 
teaching. No show and tell. Running creeks 
is all “share and do”, learning from example. 
Our motto is “if we have fun they’ll have 
fun”. If we learn, so will they: 

We start off slowly, staying to the edge of 
the creek until we find an easy set of rocks. 
We hop across, then back on the next set, 
picking ‘routes’ up the middle of the creek 
when we can. Slowly, we pick up speed, get¬ 
ting used to the feel of friction, discovering 
that our soles will hold us to the rock. 
Balance improves as we discover dynamic 
motion. Our own momentum carries us over 
difficult spots. We begin to run. Friction, 
balance, dynamic movements - the basics 
of mountaineering - and we are learning 
them in a creek! 

As speed increases, so does our judge- 


6 




ment and confidence. We being looking for 
‘problems’ to tackle - tricky sections which 
require us to stop, check out options, plan a 
strategy, then go for It. Actually, it is more 
like “go with it”. You cannot force your way 
up a creek bed any more than you can a 
tricky pitch on a rock face. You have to flow 
over the rocks, like the water itself. 

The impossible rapidly becomes reality. “I 
did it!” Soon we are running full tilt up the 
rugged stream bed. Skipping easily over the 
rocks, barely touching some, careening 
wildly off others, leaping over sparkling 
pools, scampering up the sides of small 
waterfalls, almost dancing from boulder to 
boulder. We get caught up in the rhythm and 
harmony of our own motion. We let go. We 
go beyond thinking into an effortless flow¬ 
ing. We get that feeling of total involvement 
in movement. It comes when moving easily 
up a difficult rock face, skiing deep powder 
or riding a breaking wave. The poet, Gary 
Snyder, calls it “mindfulness” a joining of 
mind and body in effortless motion. We get 
that same feeling as we flow up the creek. 
We become dancers on the rock. 

Running creeks is challenging but it is 
also non-threatening. You pick your own 
path, go at your own speed. You take risks 
you feel are within or just slightly beyond 
your own reach. There is no forcing. The 
most amazing thing is the change in the 
self-proclaimed klutzes and the very timid. 
They improve rapidly in spite of themselves. 

A couple of staff stay back with the less 
aggressive kids. They just walk along the 
side of the stream, talking casually, hopping 
up on boulders which are high and dry. Most 
people do not suffer from balance problems. 
They suffer from exposure problems. It is 
the air beneath their feet, or in this case, the 
water, which throws them off. (Earlier we 
had discovered that kids who routinely fell 
off logs crossing the creek could easily walk 
the same log placed on land.) So we keep to 
the edge, stepping from rock to rock in easy 
patterns. Occasionally we would venture 
out over the water, returning quickly to the 
security of the same shore. The kids soon 
realize that there is no pressure to perform, 
no expectations. They relax. They begin to 
trust the leader, to follow, cautiously at first, 
but soon their sense of balance improves. 
They begin to develop faith in the “gription” 
of their boot soles. When they discover the 
effectiveness - and the thrill - of dynamic, 
rather than static movements, they are de¬ 
lighted. Their fear begins to evaporate as 
they discover that they can actually do this 
stuff. It is fun! I did it! 

Soon they forget that they were clumsy or 
timid. They scamper back and forth across 
the creek, hopping, jumping, sometimes 
even running short stretches. Confidence 
replaces fear. Ability grows. They change, 
sometimes dramatically. They move with a 
new confidence, a greater sense of grace. 
Their faces beam. They feel good about 
themselves. They strut a little. They are 
excited, they have gone beyond the self they 
thought they were. Taken charge. Grown. 
They deserve to smile. 

We run creeks all through this program. 
Mainly because it is fun, but also because it 
is good preparation for mountaineering. 
When we move into bouldering, rock climb¬ 



POEM 


ing and ridge walking, the kids are well 
grounded in the basics. They not only know 
those basics, they feel them. Their bodies 
know how to move on rock. The rest comes 
easy, and no one falls off logs on the hike 
back down to base camp. 

Balance and co-ordination improve quick¬ 
ly, but more important, so do confidence 
and a sense of adventure. The kids have dis¬ 
covered that by trying something new, tak¬ 
ing a risk, they have changed and grown. By 
not forcing them, by not “teaching” them, 
we remove the barriers that prevent them 
from exploring and learning on their own. As 
well as learning a new skill, they begin to 
learn to take initiative, make judgements for 
themselves and they discover that practice 
leads to improvement. 

It is these general skills - initiative, judge¬ 
ment, practice and persistence - that are 
the ends toward which we reach. These are 
the skills kids today need. They need to 
learn to initiate and carry out actions - to be 
able to determine what’s worth doing and to 
act effectively - in all aspects of their lives. 
Challenging physical activities like creek 
running and mountaineering are powerful 
and effective ways of helping kids develop 
more general skills and attitudes for use in 
daily living. 

Confidence and competence developed 
in a wide variety of situations can lead to a 
general sense of competence, a sense that 
one is a doer. A generalized sense of com¬ 
petence enables an individual to take 
greater responsibility for himself and his 
life; to develop his or her own personal 
power and the judgement to use that power 
wisely. Running creeks obviously cannot do 
it all, but it is a place to start. • 


I AM CAMP 

I am Camp. 

I am sunlight, a sheen on the water, 
a mist on the mountains and stars. 

I am a doorway out of the commonplace 
into a new adventuring experience. 

I am a place where youth learns the joy 
of play without a sting, of fellowship 
without regrets, of creative efforts that 
wearies not, of a good time that leaves 
no headache or heartache behind. 

I am a new purpose for life that will 
make years of difference. 

I am noise and silence with a thrill in it. 

I am laughter and resolution that seeks 
the comforts of the hills. 

I am energy and the touch of loving 
service. 

I am youth and the slowly emerging 
habits that make mature experience 
worthy. 

I am today and also the tomorrow that 
is being shaped. 

I am a giver of gifts that pass not away, 
that time will not deceive. 

I am habits, ideals, ways of living, 
confirmed attitudes in the soul of youth. 

Because I am all of these and more - 
I invite youth into fellowship with me. 

I am Camp. 

Anonymous 


Full-Time Camp Director 

Camp Glenburn 

Summer & Winter Residential Camp 


Applications are invited for a qualified per¬ 
son for our Camp which is located 20 miles 
outside of the centre of Saint John, N.B., on 
a 22 acre site of the Belleisle Bay. 

The successful applicant must have initia¬ 
tive, self-reliance, maturity, the ability to 
speak to large groups, work with children, 
adults and volunteers, must have expertise 
in Outdoor Education. Youth Leadership 
Training and Fitness. Knowledge of budget 


planning and control and preparing grant 
applications is essential. 

Candidates with a degree in Recreation and 
Physical Education should submit a detail¬ 
ed resum6 to: 

Executive Director 
Y.W.C.A. 

27 Wellington Row 
Saint John, New Brunswick 
E2L3H4 

_Telephone: (506) 657-6366_ 


7 



GROUP DYNAMICS EXERCISE 



Counsellor/Camper Relationship 


The relationship of a counsellor to campers 
borrows something from a lot of other rela¬ 
tionships: 

CHEF - DINER 
PARENT-CHILD 
SALESMAN - CUSTOMER 
HOST OR HOSTESS - GUEST 
POLICEMAN - CITIZEN 
JUDGE - DEFENDANT 
SUPERVISOR - EMPLOYEE 
SERGEANT-MAJOR - SOLDIER 
DOCTOR - PATIENT 
GARDENER - FLOWER 
POTTER - CLAY 
MISSIONARY - HEATHEN 
FRIEND - FRIEND 
COACH - TEAM 
PERFORMER - AUDIENCE 
Which of the above most closely resem¬ 
bles the counsellor-camper relationship? 
Which of the above least resembles the 
counsellor-camper relationship? 


This is an excellent exercise because of 
its versatility; I have changed the words 
“counsellor-camper” to “director-counsel¬ 
lor” or CJ.T. Director-C.IT.” depending on the 
groups with which I am working. The impor¬ 
tant points arise when groups commence 
the process of discussion - invariably, they 
end up addressing issues like authority, 
friendship, closeness, rules, responsibility, 
enforcement of policies, etc. 

There are two ways to use the exercise: 

1) place people in groups ranging from three 
to five (no more, no less - two represents 
an inadequate diad for group process and 
six or higher leads to obvious exclusion 
and ineffective group process because of 
SIZE) and give each group ONE SHEET 
asking them to complete the exercise as 
a group. 

2) the other manner of presentation is to dis¬ 
tribute one sheet to each person and ask 
him/her to spend five minutes or so com¬ 
pleting the exercise ALONE, with no inter¬ 
action. Then, place individuals in groups 
asking them to complete the exercise as 
a group. 


Discussion can follow with the TOTAL 
GROUP as you, the leader, read down each 
item starting with “chef-diner” and ask the 
group for comments on each one. 

The advantage to number 2, if time per¬ 
mits, is that each individual brings to the 
group process his/her own priorities, favour¬ 
ites and values regarding the most liked and 
most disliked pairing. This makes the group 
discussion much livelier, animated and 
more exciting. 

Always emphasize: 

• No one wins or loses in group discussions. 

• No one should be ‘put down* and no idea 
should be disparaged. 

• Conflict is important and necessary - it 
can be a creative experience, as long as no 
one is attacked personally and people 
stick to the ideas only. It would be a boring 
and unproductive exercise if everyone did 
agree. 

• The group results should always be great¬ 
er than the total results added up of each 
individual in the group. In other words, 
when groups function well, they create 
something more - with communication, 
sharing, feedback, hitch-hiking on ideas, 
etc. The whole will always be greater than 
the sum of its parts. 


8 


Planning Workshop Report 


RE: Consultant/Advisor Project, 1982-83. 

FROM: Dinny Biggs, Leadership Develop¬ 
ment Programs Chairman 

In order to: 

• Promote quality skills workshop for 
training leaders in outdoor physical acti¬ 
vities based from a camp setting. 

• Promote the cross-country sharing of 
staff resources and skills information 
and experiences. 

The CCA/ACC has requested funding from 
Fitness Canada for each provincial asso¬ 
ciation to have the services of one consul¬ 
tant/advisor* for each of two different 
skills school workshops or two consul¬ 
tant/advisors for one skills school work¬ 
shop. 

*A consultant/advisor will provide quality 
resource leadership in order to train lead¬ 
ers in each provincial camping associa¬ 
tion. 

At the CCA/ACC Board Meeting in Halifax, 
November 20-22/81,1 worked with the pro¬ 
vincial association presidents to develop 
the following guidelines: 

The planning of a skills workshop for 
leadership training of staff. Participants 
would share the following expectations: 

• participants have prior competent skill 
level 

• participants have prior teaching and 
leadership experience 

• an evaluation of the workshop will be 
done by the participants and by staff 

• the information from these evaluations 
will be incorporated in a summary for the 
CCA/ACC Newsletter and in a workshop 
report for the host provincial associa¬ 
tion and for the CCA/ACC Leadership 
Development Programs Committee 

• objectives for the workshop will be clear¬ 
ly defined for the participants and for the 
workshop staff 

• the following skills will be covered: Com¬ 
munication, Programming, Transfer of 
information back to the camp setting, 
‘Skill Sequencing steps and learning 
stages, Observation, How to Teach 
teaching methods, Evaluation, Knowl¬ 
edge of different ways people learn, 
Organizational reporting. 

•“Skill” refers to the named outdoor 
physical skill of the workshop. 

We also discussed the effective use of a 
Consultant/Advisor who would need to 
know the following information from the 
provincial association planning the work¬ 
shop: 

• topic/theme of the skills workshop, the 
times, date, location 

• specific objectives of the workshop 
planners (including hidden objectives) 

•what the individual sponsor camps of 
the participants expect 

• the expectations of the participants (fee 
commitment?) 

• the specific role of the Consultant/ 
Advisor 

• the time frame for this involvement 

• the participation of the C/A prior to ... 
and after this time frame 


• the size of the group... 

• the background of the participants ... 
•the total workshop schedule - other 

resource people and topics 

• the type of facilities 

• what participants are expected to bring 

Once this arrangement was made the 
following information would be ex¬ 
changed between the Consultant/Advisor 
and the planning provincial association. 

From the C/A - equipment/facility 
needs; outline of input; personal history 
for introductions; confirmation of involve¬ 
ment. 

From the Workshop Planners - confir¬ 
mation of involvement; accommodation/ 
travel details; name and phone number of 
contact person; printed program and 
schedule. 

The basis of my presentation and work 
with the Board on November 21st stem¬ 
med from 3 assumptions: 

1. skills development of camp staff has an 
essential leadership component 

2. resources for skills development are 
found within the provincial associations 

3. CCA/ACC has a role in coordinating the 
use of their resource so that all associa¬ 
tions may benefit. 

The difficulty we ran into came in trying 
to find 4 key topics for a skills workshop, 2 
of which would interest each association. 
The hidden assumption I realized later 
was the willingness of the associations to 
invite a consultant/advisor to assist with a 
skills workshop. This may or may not be a 
correct assumption for the different asso¬ 
ciations, but at that point in my sessions It 
would have been constructive for me to 
have thought it out in the open. I will try to 
do so now. 

If we are talking about leadership train¬ 
ing, or how to train trainers, there are 
many common skills and strengths to be 


developed no matter what the specific out¬ 
door skill involved. Teaching skills, knowl¬ 
edge of how learning occurs, group pro¬ 
cess skills, communication methods, 
safety concerns ... are to mention only a 
few. A consultant/advisor may be helpful 
in developing this aspect of the skills 
workshop - while the skills experts and 
knowledge of your particular terrain 
comes from the provincial association 
itself. 

The associations do have the expertise 
and experience in providing skills work¬ 
shops, but there is always room for more 
knowledge and growth that the opportunity 
of a consultant/advisor could provide. If this 
resource person is also an expert in the 
physical skills being specialized, then the in¬ 
formation on that skills development from 
their particular association may also be 
helpful as an example of transfer of skills to 
different (or similar) camp situations and 
terrains. 

In working out my plans as chairperson of 
the Leadership Development Programs 
Committee, I would need to know the com¬ 
mitment of the associations to the concept 
of a consultant/advisor. I would also need to 
know the topics of skills workshop they are 
developing that would benefit from the par¬ 
ticipation of a consultant/advisor. 

A motion from the CCA/ACC Board 
Meeting, November 22nd, reads as follows: 
“... that the Presidents of the (provin¬ 
cial) associations send to Dinny Biggs 
by February 1,1982 the names of three 
skill topics in which they would wish 
the participation of a consultant/ 
advisor.” 

See WORKSHOP page 10 


Leadership/Skills Development Opportunities* 



EAST 

CENTRE 

WEST 

JANUARY 



Man: Directors 

FEBRUARY 

Nfld: Leadership 


Alta: Directors & 
Skills 

Sask: Winter Skills 

MARCH 

Nfld: Leadership 

Qu6: Directors & 
Counsellors 

Ont: Directors & 

Skills 


MAY 

NB: Counsellors 

Ont: Counsellors 

Sask: Directors, 
Counsellors 
& Skills 

Alta: Leadership 
Man: Canoe & 

Nature Crafts 

JUNE 

NB: Counsellors 

Ont: Medical, Canoe, 
Environment, 
Woodsmanship 

Alta: Leadership 


•Contact the Provincial Presidents/Offices for details on dates, registration, fees, etc. 

for the above courses. 

9 



Energy Tips 

The Canada Oil Substitution 
Program - part of the 
National Energy Program 

The Canada Oil Substitution Program 
(COSP) is part of the National Energy Pro¬ 
gram. COSP provides Government of 
Canada grants to homeowners and busi¬ 
nesses to help meet the costs of converting 
their heating systems from oil to more plen¬ 
tiful domestic sources. 

It is a 10-year program. One objective is to 
reduce the use of oil to less than 10 per cent 
of total energy use in residential space and 
water heating. 

COSP has two parts. 

One operates through gas and electric 
utilities to provide grants toward conver¬ 
sions to natural gas, depending on where 
you live, you may contact local gas utility. 
For electricity, contact your local electrical 
utility, or provincial utility. In some areas, 
natural gas or electricity may not be avail¬ 
able. If in doubt, ask your utility. 

A second part of COSP will assist those 
who choose to convert to energy sources 
other than gas and electricity, such as wood, 
solar heating or propane. 

COSP information may be obtained by 
telephoning the Ener$ave Advisory Service 
toll-free 1-800-267-9563 (in Ottawa 995-1801) 
or writing to: Ener$ave, P.O. Box 3500, Postal 
Station “C”, Ottawa, Ontario, K1Y 4G1. 


WORKSHOP continued from 9 

I am hoping to hear soon a response from 
the provincial association’s presidents so 
that I can communicate with the contact 
persons named for Leadership Develop¬ 
ment Programs and form a Committee and 
start plans. I appreciate the input of the 
Board In Halifax in setting guidelines and 
criteria for quality skills workshops. 

If the funding comes through, this CCA/ 
ACC project could be an enriching one in 
terms of the input consultant/advisors are 
able to give to the different associations and 
In terms of what information and new ideas 
consultant/advisors will return with to their 
particular association. • 



international 


camping congress 


Share your camping skills and experience 
with international colleagues in an exciting 
international setting * January 26 to 29, 
1983, at the Sheraton Centre, Toronto 
Full registration fee only $160 ($125 if 
you book before Dec.20. 1982) • 

For full details, contact , 




CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 
Suite 2, 1806 Avenue Road, Toronto, 

Ontario M5M 3ZI Telephone (416) 781-4717 


cm 


Era 


Bienvenu & Toronto 


pour notre premier congris international des camps 

Partagez vos connaissances et votre experience avec des collogues 
intemationaux dans une ambiance excitante et internationale - du 
26 au 29 janvier 1983 au Centre Sheraton de Toronto. Frais d’inscrip- 
tion settlement $160.00 ($123.00 si vous vous inscrivez avant le 20 
d£cembre 1982). Pour de plus amples renseignements, contactez: 

L’Association des Camps du Canada 
Suite 2, 1806 Avenue Rd., Toronto, Ont. M3M 3Z1 
T614phone (416) 781-4717 
ENSEMBLE ON EST PLUS FORT ” 


Planning for the 1983 International Camping Congress is moving along quite nicely. 
Leaders in camping from all over the world are being contacted and invited to attend as 
speakers or delegates. Various associations and kindred groups are also being invited 
and we look forward to a very strong participation. Advertising for the Congress is 
making it's way through national and international publications hoping to reach as much 
of the camping community as possible. Brochures and further information will be 
available and distributed early in the New Year. 


Les plans pour notre Congtos International des Camps 1983 vont de bon train. Nous 
avons contactor plusieurs autoritds k travers le monde afin de les inviter A §tre des-ndtres 
comme orateurs ou simples d6l6guds. Nous avons aussi contactor plusieurs associa¬ 
tions apparentees et nous nous attendons k une forte participation. Une campagne 
publlcitaire au niveau national et international est 4 ce faire et nous esp6rons atteindre le 
plus de monde que possible. Notre brochure ainsl que de plus amples renseignements 
seront disponlbles et distribuds au d£but de la nouvelle ann6e. 


ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING 
A SYMPOSIUM 


• Date: 20 and 21 April, 1982. 

• Location: Westin Hotel (formerly Edmonton Plaza) 

• Registration and Further Information 


The Alberta Society of Professional Biologists is pleased to announce a symposium 
entitled “Environmental Monitoring”, to be held on 20 and 21 April, 1982, at the Westin 
Hotel (formerly Edmonton Plaza) in Edmonton, Alberta. 

The symposium will examine the question of why environmental monitoring is required, 
examine the design basis of environmental monitoring, the practical aspects of conduc¬ 
ting environmental monitoring, the results of existing environmental monitoring pro¬ 
grams, and the value of biomonitoring programs. Eminent speakers from universities, 
government and private Industry will be featured. 


Don Thompson 
Secretary 

Alberta Society of Professional Biologists 
P.O. Box 566 
Edmonton, Alberta 
T5J2K8 

Telephone: (403) 429-9110 


10 

















The Risk Factor in Outdoor Pursuits 

By: Mike Budd, Dr. E.P. Scarlett High School, Calgary 


Reprinted from Runner, published quarterly 
by the Health & Physical Education Council 
of the Alberta Teachers Assoc. 

In recent years, there has been a rapid in¬ 
crease in interest in wilderness recreation. 
Centres and organizations that provide out¬ 
door pursuits experiences have become 
quite fashionable. The stimulus of wilder¬ 
ness adventure has been reintroduced into 
our very predictable and secure cultural 
existence. Outdoor pursuits programs are 
being used to ease stress, rehabilitate delin¬ 
quents, and motivate students in interdisci¬ 
plinary studies. The medium of wilderness 
experience has gal ned acceptance as a very 
potent tool in human development. 

At the same time, however, there has 
been a drastic rise in the number of acci¬ 
dents causing serious injury or death. A 
major reason for the increase in these acci¬ 
dents is that the number of inexperienced 
wilderness users has risen at a much faster 
rate than has the proportion of knowledge¬ 
able wilderness leaders. Lacking sufficient 
leadership, members of this ground swell of 
enthusiastic novices have stumbled head¬ 
long into hazardous situations of which they 
were completely unaware. Clearly, burgeon¬ 
ing interest in wilderness adventure has not 
been matched by a concomitant awareness 
of the risks involved. 

Because wilderness accidents are one of 
the few really sensational conflicts that man 
has with the natural environment, such inci¬ 
dents receive inordinate attention from the 
media. This publicity has brought into sharp 
focus the questions of leadership compe¬ 
tence, training, emergency procedures and 
liability. Regulating bodies have been under 
pressure to do something - anything! 

The answers to dealing with the risk fac¬ 
tor in outdoor pursuits come from many 
directions. The attempt to find answers, 
however, has been an excellent experience 
for program organizers in Canada Until 
now, most groups have had their heads 
down, burrowing away at their "own thing” 
with an aloofness which prevented them 
from realizing that many other programmers 
were doing the same thing. The need to get 
this outdoor pursuits movement on a sound 
footing will require the active contribution 
and cooperation of all participants in order 
to establish effective instructional leader¬ 
ship and safety standards in this country. 

The first step in dealing with risks in the 
outdoors is to develop an awareness and 
respect for the many powerful facets of the 
natural world. Hazards can be categorized 
into two types: objective danger - ava¬ 
lanche, white-outs, bears, lightning - which 
man has no control over; and subjective 


dangers - hypothermia, getting lost, river 
crossings - which through skill, precau¬ 
tions, and equipment, man can minimize. 

In order to recognize the objective 
hazards in a particular locale, the leadership 
team must have previous knowledge of the 
area. As well, precautions must be taken 
against the risks, such as getting down off a 
ridge when you suspect the chance of an 
electrical storm, or avoiding avalanche ter¬ 
rain with students. It seems that regardless 
of the precautions, however, someone 
always gets caught. Then the leader must 
know how to cope with the objective danger. 
Practices such as bivouacking, rather than 
stumbling around when caught out on the 
trail after dark, are ways of coping with ob¬ 
jective danger effectively. A leader is ex¬ 
pected to be prepared to handle the emer¬ 
gencies that might result from the objective 
dangers present on his or her outing. A 
canoe trip leader that cannot effect the res¬ 
cue of a capsized canoeist should limit his 
outings to a low-risk environment where he 
can effectively deal with the less serious 
hazards involved. 

It is in the area of subjective or control¬ 
lable dangers that outdoor pursuits teach¬ 
ers must demonstrate careful planning, 
instruction, and assessment of groups’ 
capabilities. Teachers must very carefully 
select experiences that are well within the 
ability of both leaders and students. This 
assessment of capabilities should also in¬ 
clude external help or organizations that are 
being used to assist you. 

Students must be given sufficient instruc¬ 
tion, progression, and assessment to ensure 
they can meet the demands of a particular 
outing. This concept of progressive training 
also applies to the seriousness of the 
outing. For example, taking students on a 
multi-day ski touring trip without previous 
experience in half-day trips, all-day outings, 
summer camping and then overnight winter 
trips could be regarded as an insufficient 
progression of experience. 

Finally, in dealing with those controllable 
hazards called subjective dangers, except 
human error. Party members may not wait at 
the trail junction as instructed. If they get 
lost, have they been taught to mark their 
location? Do they carry enough equipment 
to bivouac? Is the group instructed on what 
to do in an emergency? Does the back-up 
person have a route card? Most dangers 
from subjective hazards can be eliminated 
by thoughtful plannig and the development 
of knowledge and skills necessary to cope 
with the outdoors. 

Next question: How can teachers ensure 
that their now fully prepared group acts 


responsibly? Well, there is no failsafe 
method, but much of this desired behavior 
starts with the attitude of the leader, begin¬ 
ning with a merciless equipment check 
before departure. Simply distributing an 
equipment list is not enough. The student 
that showed up with a hot “water bottle” 
was proof enough to this writer that there is 
considerable room for interpretation as to 
just what the items on such lists mean. By 
checking'each student’s equipment, the 
teacher can point to the fact that wilderness 
users must be self-sufficient as a matter of 
safety. 

Collectively discussing the escape routes 
included on the route card in the event of an 
emergency, outlining back-up plans, includ¬ 
ing accident forms and individual medical 
information cards in the first aid kit; all these 
considerations demonstrate to students 
that wilderness travel, whether for a short 
hike or a week-long trip, is a serious under¬ 
taking, and they will follow this lead. 

Use these leadership precautions: 

1. Have up-to-date knowledge of existing 
trail conditions, water supply, campsites 
and potential hazards. 

2. Select routes appropriate to the knowl¬ 
edge, skills, attitudes and equipment of 
the party. 

3. Recognize hazardous conditions such as 
slippery rocks, changing snow condi¬ 
tions, approaching storms. 

4. Avoid uncontrollable hazards (objective 
danger), likerockfall, avalanche, deadfall. 

5. Have appropriate rescue equipment 
available: shovels, first aid suplies, life 
jackets, et cetera. 

6. Know and be able to implement estab¬ 
lished emergency procedures. 

7. Maintain safe party control. 

While actually travelling in the outdoors, 
the position of the leader probably has the 
biggest bearing on safety. Party control 
from the middle is suitable when the route is 
known and an established destination or 
time is provided for a responsible pair at the 
front. The condition and pace of the entire 
party can be monitored from here. Party con¬ 
trol from the back is desirable if there is a 
wide variance in the abilities of the party 
and some members may need help with blis¬ 
ters or equipment, et cetera. A well defined 
route, an obvious regrouping point, a pre¬ 
determined time to stop, use of slower peo¬ 
ple at the front and whistle signals will keep 
the party together. Party control from the 
front is necessary when the route is unclear 
and/or when hazards are anticipated and the 
leader’s judgment is required to ensure safe 
travel. Stationary party control is safest 


11 



when there is a hazardous location or situa¬ 
tion to be passed by. Here, a leader can posi¬ 
tion himself to assist party members with 
subjective dangers, such as jumping from a 
log over a swift flowing stream, thereby 
reducing the real danger to party members. 
Where there is high risk involved, party con¬ 
trol should be tight. 

The following precautions will help elimi¬ 
nate the problem of keeping the party 
together: 

1. Inform all party members of the proposed 
route. 

2. Point out the physical features and ter¬ 
rain along the way. 

3. Establish a standard regrouping proce¬ 
dure, for example, every 50 minutes, at all 
trail junctions, and river crossings. 

4. Explain the purpose of the point man and 
the drag man. 

5. Use a whistle system, visual contact sys¬ 
tem, or a buddy system, or any combina¬ 
tion of these. 

If a leader uses his judgment wisely in 
establishing appropriate party control tech¬ 
niques, wilderness hazards will provide 
great adventure but no real danger to users. 

Although there are many guidelines that 
can be followed to help reduce the risk fac¬ 
tor, there are also a host of variables and 
unique situations that make the preparation 
of a “recipe book” for leaders ludicrous. As 


Eric Langmuir stated, “To say that we can 
achieve a balance between challenge and 
safety is wishful thinking. The best we can 
hope for is an uneasy truce.” Indeed, few of 
us would like to eliminate all the variables. 
That is what gives the wilderness some of 
its thrill, its appeal, its stimulating effect on 
group dynamics. But educators should stop 
and ask themselves, “In my efforts to chal¬ 
lenge students, how far should I go?” 

Teachers may be involved as private citi¬ 
zens in recreation such as rock climbing, ski 
mountaineering, or white water canoeing 
where they are exposed to real danger. The 
ever-increasing number of outdoor pursuits 
graduates are trained in assessing the ob¬ 
jective dangers that are related to what the 
public considers to be high risk sports. How¬ 
ever, there is a world of difference in volun¬ 
teering to engage in activities involving real 
danger as a private individual, and organiz¬ 
ing school programs which go beyond ap¬ 
parent danger. 

An activity which is apparently dangerous 
to the student may in fact still afford plenty 
of safety due to the position of the leader or 
the use of a safety rope, for example. But 
students should not be exposed to objective 
hazards - that is, dangers that are not con¬ 
trollable by the leader. Using electronic 
homing devices as a margin of safety on 
avalanche slopes, or glacier travel, even 
with ropes on, are both examples of activi¬ 

12 


ties that transcend into the realm of objec¬ 
tive danger, and no amount of training or 
precautions can ensure that serious injury 
or death will not occur. Even though 
students may have been trained to cope 
with the emergencies arising from objective 
dangers such as avalanches and rockfall, it 
is highly questionable whether students 
have the emotional and mental maturity to 
cope with the trauma of witnessing such an 
emergency, let alone effecting a rescue. Ex¬ 
posing students to objective danger is 
beyond the scope of regular public school 
programming. 

Throughout this discussion of coping 
with risks, the question of leadership con¬ 
tinually re-emerges. The single most impor¬ 
tant factor in outdoor pursuits is the inte¬ 
grity, skill, and judgment of the leader. Of 
these, judgment seems the hardest to 
develop, for the old maxim states that good 
judgment comes from experience and ex¬ 
perience is the result of poor judgment! The 
development of wilderness leaders can’t 
simply be done with the skills school ap¬ 
proach. Certification courses simply legal¬ 
ize errors in judgment. Experience as a pri¬ 
vate individual is also not adequate in itself. 
It takes an individual actively involved in out¬ 
door pursuits and interested in leading 
students. It requires interaction with other 
active leaders. Leadership skills can be par¬ 
tially augmented through work-shops and 
seminars. In short, leaders are a product of 
mature individuals who attempt to learn 
about teaching and functioning in the out¬ 
doors from as many sources as possible, 
and who then test themselves in experi¬ 
ences which progressively demand more 
and more self-sufficiency. 

The legal requirements of outdoor pur¬ 
suits experiences listed below sum up the 
major concepts presented here. Many 
potential risks involved in wilderness 
outings can be avoided by: 

1. carefully selecting locations and activi¬ 
ties that are both familiar to the leaders 
and well within their capabilities, even if 
conditions should deteriorate; 

2. selecting activities where the risks involv¬ 
ed are reasonably related to the program 
objectives; 

3. adequate progression, instruction, and 
evaluation of competencies required for 
the outing; 

4. matching the demands of the trip to avail¬ 
able equipment; 

5. completing route cards, medical cards, 
and following established back-up proce¬ 
dures in the event that the leader is late or 
involved in an emergency situation. 

The development of competent leaders 

who practise accepted safety procedures 
such as these and who have been involved 
in a variety of experiences is the key to keep¬ 
ing the adventure in and the risk out of out¬ 
door education. • 




BOOK REVIEW 


LIGHTWEIGHT CAMPING: 

A FOUR SEASON SOURCE BOOK 

By: Paul Pie per 

Useful and current information is the key 
component in a new book titled: Light¬ 
weight Camping: A Four Season Source 
Book, by Michael Hatton. The book is in¬ 
tended to act as a general resource for 
outdoor enthusiasts, be they canoeists, 
backpackers, or winter campers. 

The author, Michael Hatton, a wildlife 
photographer, has travelled extensively in 
the Canadian North and Alaska by both 
backpack and canoe. He shares with the 
reader his rich background on how to en¬ 
joy a safe, yet challenging, outdoor experi¬ 
ence. Having been instrumental in devel¬ 
oping Humber College’s Outdoor Educa¬ 
tion Certificate Program, the author has 
geared the book to outdoor enthusiasts 
who are looking for a comprehensive 
Canadian text that is one of the best writ¬ 
ten, and certainly the most current. 

The book has a very impressive section 
on camping equipment and the author’s 
easy and concise writing style makes it in¬ 
formative and interesting for novice and 
expert alike. In addition to being the best 
guide on equipment available, it presents 
a variety of interesting material on proper 
selection of food, survival in the wilder¬ 
ness, and outdoor emergency care. The 
chapters dealing with various forms of 
wilderness travel (e.g. canoeing, back¬ 
packing, snowshoeing and cross-country 
skiing) are rounded out by a chapter that 
describes some of the most interesting 
routes in Canada. 

With today’s emphasis on the creative 
use of leisure time, it is hardly surprising 
to find many books on how best to experi¬ 
ence the outdoors. The problem is that 
most books are addressed to the novice 
level and offer little to the committed 
hiker, canoe tripper, or other outdoor en¬ 
thusiast. At the other end of the spectrum 
is the “survival” guide, which deals by and 
large with extreme conditions that should 
have been avoided if a proper approach to 
the outdoors had been taken in the first 
place. Lightweight Camping: A Four 
Season Source Book falls nicely between 
these two approaches, providing solid in¬ 
formation, applicable to both weekend 
canoeist and trip leaders, in a smooth, 
readable, concise fashion. 

Lightweight Camping: A Four Season 
Source Book ($8.95; paperback) is avail¬ 
able from the CCA/ACC Publications 
Service. • 


A Four Season Source Book 



NEW SHIPPING & 
BILLING POLICY 

Following a recent cost/benefit analysis, the 
CCA/ACC Board adopted new policies for 
shipping and handling rates for all publica¬ 
tion orders: 

1. A flat rate* for shipping and handling (in¬ 
cluding 3rd class postage) will be applied. 

Orders 

Under $10.00.$1.80 (Prepaid) 

$10.01 - $50.00 . 3.00 (May be billed) 

$50.01 and over - rate determined per order 
‘Shipping and handling rates will be ad¬ 
justed to reflect increased postage and 
wrapping supply costs when necessary, 

2. Monthly interest of 2% will apply on oven 
due accounts. 


NEWS FROM 
PUBLICATIONS 

The Society of Camp Directors have donated 
a limited number of copies of their paper on 
Canoe Tripping Practices in Canada. (John 
R. Latimer, Research Chairman, 1979) Inter¬ 
ested persons can acquire it at no extra 
charge when added to your next order to the 
National Office, 1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, 
Toronto, Ont. M5M 3Z1. Ail orders must be 
Prepaid. 


WHEN THE WILDERNESS BECKONS. 

A NEW GUIDE TO CANOE TRIPPING 

The Canadian Camping Association has 
been very fortunate in having among its 
members authors who are able to produce 
books of instruction and outdoor useful¬ 
ness, useful to us because the writers are 
part of our own Canadian camp living, fami¬ 
liar with our needs and terrain, knowledge¬ 
able in all phases of the profession. Jack 
Eastau, Mary Edgar, “Blackie” Blackstock, 
Ron Perry, Bill Mason, Jack Pearse, to name 
but a few, have written from their own exten¬ 
sive camping experience and their knowl¬ 
edge of teaching techniques. 

Latest on the list is an excellent canoe 
tripping handbook, WHEN THE WILDER¬ 
NESS BECKONS, which possesses the dis¬ 
tinct advantage of a binding that stays open, 
folds back and behaves itself for the instruc¬ 
tor’s convenience in any wind, weather or 
situation. 

Besides basic canoeing instruction as we 
know it, the authors, Catherine Ross, 
Deborah Hutton and Pamela Dunbar, go fur¬ 
ther into such areas as first aid, artificial 
respiration, canoe repairs, coping with 
forest fires, calm and sensible search pro¬ 
cedures for both the lost and the searchers, 
suggestions for family camping, plus a tried 
and true collection of nourishing outdoor 
cooking recipes. To make things more re¬ 
alistic, actual photographs of canoeists in 
action give clarity to the written word. 

Chapter Seven on the joys of family camp¬ 
ing wisely suggests that family tripping with 
the very young should be confined to land 
only in the lake country. Canoe tripping with 
children should not be considered without 
Junior Red Cross swimming level (currently 
Level 5/Blue), ability to relate and respond to 
emergencies, willingness to wear a life 
jacket, and have some paddling skills. 

For next year’s staff, for winter discus¬ 
sion groups, and next summer’s waterfront, 
it might be well to order now, through your 
Canadian Camping Association Publica¬ 
tions Service. 1806 Avenue Road, Toronto 
M5M 3Z1. $6.95. 

Published by Highway Book Shop, Cobalt, 
Ontario. Reviewed by: Eanswythe Flynn. • 


13 





ANNOUNCING: 

Add Rain Awareness 
Twinning Project 

.. It has been called a silent crisis 
with no equal; a ticking time bomb set 
to destroy the human and environmen¬ 
tal health of the planet... It Is acid 
rain; at once the most pressing, para¬ 
doxical and sensitive environmental 
problem facing North America In the 
remainder of the 20th century." 

- M. Munro, Ottawa Citizen 

The Canadian Camping Association/Asso¬ 
ciation des Camps du Canada is pleased to 
share information from the NATIONAL SUR¬ 
VIVAL INSTITUTE regarding a new project 
on ACID RAIN suitable for 10-13 year-olds. 

The aim of the project is to twin organized 
youth groups (in our case, CAMPS) to ex¬ 
change information project ideas, and 
points of view. An ACID RAIN EDUCATION 
KIT will be provided free to participating 
camps. The ACID RAIN EDUCATION KIT 
includes: 

• Colouring Poster (available to all children) 

• Map of North America (showing all areas 
subject to acid rain) 

• Take Home Information 

• Fact Sheets for Leaders (causes, effects 
and proposed solutions) 

• Resource Information for Leaders 

• Project Ideas and Discussion Questions 
The National Survival Institute hopes that 

twinning will occur between groups in 
Canada and the U.S.A. or at least two groups 
from different regions of Canada. 

This project was originally designed for 
school classes. Therefore, it is important 
that you contact the National Survival Insti¬ 
tute NOW if you plan to order the ACID RAIN 
EDUCATION KIT for this summer. The 
CCA/ACC ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE 
heartily endorses this project and encour¬ 
ages the CCA/ACC Member Camps to take 
advantage of this offer. 

To order: Send the following information 
to the National Survival Institute, 229 Col¬ 
lege Street, 3rd Floor, Toronto, Ont. M5T1R4. 
(416) 593-1229: 

Camp Name; Camp Leader’s/Director’s 
Name; Address; No. of Campers Partici¬ 
pating; Telephone; No. of Leaders’ Kits 
Required. • 

N.B. Le “kit” est 6galement disponible en 



Action taken by 
The CCAfACC Board 

The semi-annual meeting of the CCA/ACC 
Board of Directors was held In Halifax, 
November 20-22, 1981. The Association Is 
grateful to Fitness Canada for their contri¬ 
bution of travel and meeting room funds 
for this event. 

Since many provinces did not meet with 
their delegates from last May’s National 
Wilderness Travel Leaders Course, the 
CCA/ACC Board was not able to commit 
Itself to another national school this time. 
Provincial associations should evaluate 
the application of this national event to 
their own provincial leadership/skill devel¬ 
opment possibilities. Any province or 
region wishing to make a specific request 
to the Alberta Camping Association, their 
Wilderness Travel Committee will attempt 
to share information about future courses 
and development. 

Proposed budgets were approved for 
the national association (1982-83) and for 
the 1983 International Camping Congress. 
The Board authorized a submission to Fit¬ 
ness Canada requesting a contribution of 
$109,617. for several projects. We will hear 
the decision of Fitness Canada in late 
March, 1982. 

Committee and Task Force reports were 
received from the 20 Chairmen about their 
respective progress on their responsibili¬ 
ties as outlined in the Action Plan. 

Minutes of the Halifax Board Meeting are 
available to members through the Provin¬ 
cial Presidents/Representatives as well as 
the Executive and Chairmen. 


ASSISTANTSHIPS IN 
OUTDOOR TEACHER 
EDUCATION 

Northern Illinois University 
Dr. Clifford E. Knapp has reported that 
Graduate Teaching Assistantships are avail¬ 
able at the Taft Field Campus In Outdoor 
Teacher Education at Northern Illinois Uni¬ 
versity for the 1982-83 academic year. It is 
expected that a dozen or more assistant- 
ships will be available. 

These assistantships Involve teaching at 
the Lorado Taft Field Campus, Oregon, Illi¬ 
nois. Because the teaching is primarily with 
public school students and University 
juniors and seniors, priority is given to those 
applicants who have had a minimum of 
three years teaching experience in the 
elementary or secondary public schools. 

The assistantships pay a stipend of $225 a 
month and Include a waiver of tuition for 
three semesters at Northern Illinois Univer¬ 
sity. 

Applications, Job description, and further In¬ 
formation may be obtained by writing to the 
Lorado Taft Field Campus. 

The first deadline for receipt of applications 
is February 1,1982. 


From the Environment 
Committee 

The Environment Committee is moving to 
implement stages of the CCA/ACC Action 
Plan as proposed by the Board in June, 1981. 

The challenge is here, assistance is 
needed— 

The core committee for this term is neces¬ 
sarily formed by folks living somewhat close 
to each other - in this case - Southern On¬ 
tario. We would like to include as members, 
representatives of each of the Provincial 
committees on environmental concerns so / 
that our work does indeed reflect national 
interests. If you can lend your support in this 
regard, please contact me through the CCA I f 
ACC office. 

The first task of the committee Is to 
prepare an Environmental Ethic - a state¬ 
ment of our values and concerns for our 
natural world. This ethic will become the 
basis for a set of principles and practices 
(personal and institutional) to guide us in 
continued enjoyment, appreciation, and 
sensible interaction with Nature. 

As well we would like to submit articles 
on issues of concerns to Canadian camps 
and camping to be printed In the CCA/ACC 
Newsletter. In order to represent the East- \ 
West spectrum of issues, articles from any 
and all CCA/ACC members would be wel¬ 
comed and appreciated. 

Peter Rasberry 
Chairman 


CAMP DIRECTORS 
required by 

The Easter Seal Society 

For five residential summer camps in On¬ 
tario for physically disabled children - ages 
7-18. 

Period: Mid-June to late August, 1982. 

Age 25 or over - experience in camping and 
working with disabled children essential. 

Contact: Jim Fraser, Supervisor 

Camping and Recreation Dept. 
The Easter Seal Society 
350 Rumsey Road 
Toronto, Ont. M4G 1R8 
Tel: (416) 425-6220, ext. 241 


For a complete listing of courses, graduate 
degree opportunities, and fellowships in j 
Outdoor Teacher Education, write to Dr. \ 
Knapp at: 

Lorado Taft Field Campus 

Box 299 

Oregon, IL 61061 

The Taft Campus is a field center which has 
been devoted to outdoor teacher education 
for the past thirty years. A Master’s of 
Science In Education degree is offered at J 
the Taft Campus in Outdoor Teacher Educa¬ 
tion. 


14 






Dispose of camp food 
service problems with 

royal Cn Inef 

disposable plates and bowls 

Strong, attractive Royal CHINET food service products help you ... 

• DISPOSE OF DISHWASHING COSTS 

Cut the expense of installing, maintaining and manning equipment 
that is used only a few months of the year. 

• DISPOSE OF BREAKAGE 

Save yourself the trouble and expense of buying matching replace¬ 
ments for pieces that crack, chip and shatter. 

• DISPOSE OF FOOD WASTE 

You get exact portion control with Royal CHINET’s wide range of 
sizes in regular and compartmented designs. 

• DISPOSE OF GERM COLLECTORS 

Royal CHINET products are sterilized when manufactured and 
packaged. And there’s never a germ-collecting chip, crack or 
poorly washed dish. 

• DISPOSE OF IRRITATING NOISE 

Disposable service is silent service. Meals are relaxed without the 
clatter and crash of china or metal. 

ENVIRONMENTAL ADVANTAGES, TOO 

All good campers want to protect the environment. Royal CHINET prod¬ 
ucts are manufactured from a renewable resource. What’s more, they’re 
biodegradable ... molded of natural wood fibres that burn readily with 
little smoke. Even if discarded out-of-doors, Royal CHINET quickly de¬ 
composes in the earth. 

Get the full particulars now. Mail this coupon today. 


CANADIAN KEYES FIBRE COMPANY LTD. 
HANTSPORT, NOVA SCOTIA 

Please provide me with details of the variety and costs of Royal 
CHINET food service products. 

NAME_ 

COMPANY or CAMP _ , 

ADDRESS _ A 










Canadian camping association 
association dcs camps du Canada 


SUITE 2. 1806 AVENUE ROAD 
TORONTO. ONTARIO M5M 3Z1 

VOL 33, NO. 6 
WINTER 1982 
ISSN 008-3119 


SUPPORT AMATEUR 
SPORT 


ENCOURAGEZ LE SPOtt? 
AMATEUR 




30 


18*2 

MISS MAW ION BAHCOCK 
215 - 25 LOWNE AVE. 
NEWMARKET ON 
L 3Y 5N8 


Mena Feature 


VEAL PARMESAN 

Yield: 50 

50 Veal Cutlets (breaded) 

SAUCE: 

8 oz. Green Peppers 
1-1/2 lb. Onion 
1T. Garlic 
4 oz. Oil 

24 oz. Mushrooms (with juice) 

56 oz. Tomatoes (tin) 

20 oz. Tomato Pur6e 
4 oz. Vinegar 
1 Bay Leaf 

1T. Salt 

1-1/21. Pepper 

Parmesan Cheese 

METHOD: 

1. Fry veal cutlets on griddle until well 
browned on both sides. 

2. (Sauce) chop peppers, onion and garlic 
and saut6 in oil. 

3. Add remaining ingredients and simmer 
1 hour. 

TO SERVE: 

Pour some sauce over veal and sprinkle with 
parmesan cheese. 

NOTE: 

You can buy frozen veal cutlets at a reason¬ 
able price. If not available, bread the cutlets 
as follows. 

1. Dredge with seasoned flour. 

2. Dip in egg wash (1/2 eggs, 1/2 water cold). 

3. Press in dry bread crumbs. 

Reprinted from “The Kitchen Makes The 
Camp Go ’Round”, Laurie Macintosh, © 
1981. This book may be ordered from the 
CCA/ACC Publications Service for $5.00 
plus shipping. 


MOVING? 

Please notify the Canadian Camping Association as well as your 
Provincial Camping Association of your change of address on the 
free Post Office announcement card ... as per the sample below. 


Change of Address 
Announcement 


Annonce de changement 
d’adresse 


Please change Veuillez changer ^ 

my mailing address mon adresse postale 

effective & compter du 


Name (bio 


Old A 

Street No. 


City 


Postal 


a Moiaft 


2435 

MISS MARJ0R 
1806 AVENUE 
TORONTO ON 
M5M 3Z1 


New Address Nouvelle 

Street No., Apt. No., P.O. Box or R.R. No. N° de rue, n° d’app., n tf 



’. ou de R.R 


City 


•Box «DOO Staj v CL 


Province 


flMyrTMxaxl C4 MAM— 
Mi3iC ■ I iXiO 


New Nouveau 

Postal code 

Code postal 


Telephone Tdl&phone 


fl/aol'zTM \/\2\S\1 



33-086-037 (12-76) 


i+ 


Canada Post Postes Canada 


16 


























