














































































IN THIS ISSUE 

The summer of 1986 is now past and this issue blends some 
armchair reflections of summers gone by with some challenges for 
the summers yet to be. You can adventure into the past with the 
26,000 campers who participated in heritage programs this 
summer. There are summer ‘86 photos, program ideas and 
committee reports. Our personality profile highlights the life and 
work of Ted Yard. Ted’s wife and son (Shirley and Ted Jr.) 
provide the backbone of the profile but ‘T.Y.’s’ own writings fill 
out the scope of his impact on Canadian Camping. The 
International Camping Congress is now only a few months away. 
Look for detailed information on the Anne Nashman writing 
contest, and do some armchair writing of your own. Ted Yard 
would have been proud. 

DANS CETTE LIVRAISON 

L’ete 1986 est derriere nous. Cette livraison inclus un 
melange de reflections sur les etes passes ainsi que sur 
les defis que nous offrent ceux a venir. 

Joignez-vous aux 26,000 campeurs qui ont participe au 
programme “Heritage” cet ete. Vous y trouverez des 
photos de I’ete ‘86, des idees pour des programmes et des 
rapports de divers comites. 

Notre profil de personnalite evoque la vie et le travail de 
Ted Yard. Sa femme Shirley et son fils Ted nous 
fournissent I’information essentiel pour notre profil mais 
lesecritsdeT.Y. expriment par eux-memes. 

Nous ne sommes plus qu’a quelques mois du Congres 
International de Camping, vous trouverez plus d’infor- 
mation a ce sujet dans le concours de redaction d’Anne 
Nashman. Sortez vous plumes et ecrivez, Ted Yard en 
serait tier. 



Canadian Camping Association 
National Office/Siege Sociale 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, 

Toronto, Ont. M5M 3Z1 
Phone: (416) 781-4717 


STAFF 

PERSONNEL 

Editor-in-Chief 

Jack Pearse 

Editeuren chef 

Senior Editors 

Jane McCutcheon 

John Jorgenson 

Editeurs sup6rieres 

Regional Editors 

Brenda McFarlane—Eastern 

Liz Greenway—Central 

Mickey Johnstone—Western 

Editeurs rfegionaux 

Office Staff 

Lisa Pearse 

Carol Sportun 

Personnel du bureau 

Translation 

Mimi Drouin 

Traduction 

Printers 

Cober Printing, Kitchener, Ont. 

Imprimeurs 

BOARD of DIRECTORS 

Consell D’admlnlstration 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 

Les Offlclers Executlf 

President 

Janet Adamson, Toronto, Ont. 

Pr6sidente 

Past President 

Jocelyn Palm, Toronto, Ont. 

Ancienne Pr6sidente 

Secretary 

Patti Thom, Toronto, Ont. 

Secretaire 

Treasurer 

Skip Connett, Thornhill, Ont. 

Tr6sorier 

Vice Pres, (eastern) 

Ian Fowler, Moncton, N.B. 

Vice-president 

Vice Pres, (western) 

Jan James, Ardrossan, Alta. 

Vice-pr6sidente 

Vice Pres, (central) 

Ken Willis, Magog, Que. 

Vice-president 

President Emeritus 

F. M. Van Wagner, Point Claire, 
Que. 

President 6m6rit6 

PROVINCIAL REPRESENTATIVES 

ReprAsentants Provlnciaux 

Newfoundland 

Frank O’Connor 

La Terre Neuve 

Nova Scotia 

Kelley Byrne 

La Nouvelle Ecosse 

New Brunswick 

Dan Soucy 

Le Nouveau Brunswick 

Quebec 

Colette Pouliot-Marier 

Le Quebec 

Ontario 

Fred Okada 

L’Ontario 

Manitoba 

Grant Platts 

Le Manitoba 

Saskatchewan 

Penny Wingert 

Le Saskatchewan 

Alberta 

Bob Sperling 

L'Alberta 

British Columbia 

Jack Way 

La Colomble Britannique 

CCA COMMITTEES 


ComitAs ACC 

Archives 

Bruno Morawetz, Peterborough, 
Ont. 

Les Archives 

Professional 


Le DAveloppement 

Development 

Dorothy Walter, Toronto, Ont. 

Professional 

National Conferences 


Les Ateliers et les 

and Workshops 

Glenn Barned, Victoria, BC/CB 

Conferences Nationales 

French Language 

Gerard Bachand, Rawdon, Que. 

Le Frangais 

Fund Raising 

Jack Pearse. Waterloo. Ont. 

Accumulation des Fonds 

Environment 

Jean Funk, Sherwood Pk., Alta. 

Le milieu 

Publications 

Nancy Barker, Seebe, Alta. 

Publications 

Magazine 

CampTawingo, Huntsville, Ont. 

Revue 

1987 Congress 


Liaison du congrAs 1987 

Liaison 

Dave Sands, Toronto, Ont. 


Adventure into the 


Liaison du voyage dans le 

Past Liaison 

Cliff Labbett, Toronto, Ont. 

pass6 

Immigration 

Barry Lowes, Toronto, Ont. 

L’immigration 


NATIONAL OFFICE 

Canadian Camping Association 
1806 Avenue Road, Ste. 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
(416) 781-4717 


BUREAU NATIONAL 

Association des Camps du Canada 
1806 Avenue Road, Ste. 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
(416) 781-4717 


Administrative 

Secretary Irene Knapp Secretaire administrative 


CONTENTS 


PRESIDENT’S MESSAGE 3 

— Janet Adamson 

WHAT’S IN A NAME 3 

CAMPING FROM COAST TO COAST 4 

COMMITTEE NOTES 6 

BETWEEN THE COVERS 8 

— Nancy Barker 

A PIONEER CENTRE 8 

— Janet Adamson 

PERSONALITY PROFILE 10 

— Shirley & Ted Yard Jr. 

50TH ANNIVERSARY PATRONS’ FUND 16 

SOME THOUGHTS FOR THE DAY 17 


OUR PAL JOEY 18 

— Ted Yard 

UNITED NATIONS SEMINAR 19 

— Ted Yard 

DUKE OF EDINBURGH’S AWARD 20 

2ND INTERNATIONAL CAMPING 

CONGRESS 21 

UNDER OPEN SKIES 22 

BUBBY NASH AWARD 23 

ADVENTURE INTO THE PAST 24 

— Branchton Camp 

PROGRAMS AT CAMP 25 

— Liz Greenway 

SELLING YOUR CAMP PROGRAM 26 


2 








PRESIDENT’S 

MESSAGE 


At the beginning of October, the New Brunswick Camping 
Association hosted an Atlantic Regional Conference, in 
Moncton, for the Canadian Camping Association. This was 
combined with a workshop on the Camp Directors’ Curriculum 
for delegates from across Canada and a C.C.A. Board of 
Management meeting. A very active four days resulted from this 
gathering of camping people from across Canada, coming 
together for several purposes, but with a common goal — the 
development of camping. 

The New Brunswick Camping Association put forth all its 
efforts and provided lobster suppers, a sparkling conference 
featuring Michael Brandwein, and a celebration for C.C.A.*s 
fiftieth birthday. Rachelle Bordeleau the Conference chairman 
and Gillian Young who organized the birthday party ensured that 
we all left the Atlantic Region with many happy memories. The 
New Brunswick Camping Association is to be congratulated for 
great success in hosting this Regional Conference. 

Kelly Byrne, the Director of Camp Big Cove in Nova Scotia 
and the President of the Camping Association of Nova Scotia, 
has gathered a committed and enthusiastic group around her to 
provide direction and growth to their Association; and Frank 
O’Connor reports that, in Newfoundland, Association work is 
expanding very successfully. 

Camping certainly is alive and well in the Atlantic Provinces 
and I know that every delegate and representative from across 
Canada joins me in offering an accolade to the Atlantic Region 
Associations, and all their members. 


WHAT’S IN A NAME? 

The Art and Science of Camp names is a subject for detailed 
and prolonged study. The origins for some names are as simple as 
identifying the lake or mountain upon which the camp is located 
or the name of the founder or First director. Other names are 
complicated tongue twisting acronyms or they are native terms 
defying pronunciation by any but five year veterans of the camp 
itself. (Those campers and staff can even make it rhyme in the 
camp song). 

As its contribution to the language of camping the 
CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE will send a crack team of 
investigative reporters into the archives of different camps across 
the country to deliver to its readership not only the correct 
pronunciation of the feature camp but the origin of its name as 
well. CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE invites suggestions 
and data for future issues. 


UN MOT 
DU PRESIDENT 

Au debut d’Octobre, I’Association de Camping du 
Nouveau-Brunswick a ete I’hote de la Conference 
Regionale Atlantique a Moncton. En conjonction avec 
celle-ci, un atelier, sur le Curriculum des Directeurs de 
camps pour les delegues venant de tous les coins du 
Canada a eu lieu en plus d’une reunion des membres du 
Conseil d’Administration de I’A.C.C. 

Quatre jours bien remplis ont resulte de cette rencontre 
qui reunissait des gens avec un but commun, le developpe- 
ment du camping. 

L’Association des Camps du Nouveau-Brunswick n’a 
menage aucun effort; un souper aux homards, une 
conference hors-pairs par Michael Brandwein et une 
celebration en I’honneur du 50© anniversaire de I’A.C.C. 

Grace au travail de Rachelle Bordeleau, directrice de la 
conference et Gillian Young, organisatrice de la fete, nous 
gardons de tres bons souvenirs de notre sejour dans les 
maritimes. La Conference Regional fut un succes et il 
importe d’en feliciter I’Association de Camping du 
Nouveau- Brunswick. 

Kelly Byrne, le directeur du Camp Big Cove en Nouvelle- 
Ecosse et President de I’Association des Camps de 
Nouvelle-Ecosse, a reussi a s’entourer de gens dedies et 
enthousiasmes qui I’aideront a developper I’Association. 
Quant a Frank O’Connor, il nous assure que I’Association 
de Camping de Terre- Neuve ne cesse de grandir. 

On peut certainement dire que le Camping dans les 
provinces Atlantique se porte bien. Je sais que chaque 
delegue et representant d’un bout a I’autre du Canada se 
joignent a moi pour offrir une accolade aux Associations 
des Regions Atlantiques et a ses membres. 


ILLAHEE NORTHWOODS CAMP 


Illahee was originally located on the shores of Lake Ontario 
near Cobourg and is now situated on Drag Lake in Haliburton. It 
is operated by the Family Service Association of Metropolitan 
Toronto. Fifty medically handicapped children (8 - 16) as well as 
twenty ‘regular’ teens attend camp at any one time. Activities 
include campcraft, canoeing, computers, archery, sailing, golf, 
tripping, swimming, tennis, and arts and crafts. 

The word “Northwoods” is a product of the change of site 
from Southern Ontario to the forests and lakes of Haliburton. 


The word “Illahee” comes from the Cree Indian language and 
it translates as ‘House by the Water*. The medical handicaps of 
Illahee campers would be very difficult in some other camp 
settings. These campers and all Illahee campers have come to love 
and appreciate their own special ‘House by the Water’. 


3 







CAMPING: 



From Coast To Coast 
D’une Cote A L’Autre 


* 25 ? 


fQ 




f# ALBERTA 

With only 103 days between snow storms in 
many areas of the Province, our camping 
season has been brief but full and rewarding. 
The Senior Staff Workshop hosted by 
Pioneer Ranch was a great success — over 130 
delegates from 27 camps. The weekend was highlighted by the 
presence of John Jorgenson and Ken Whiteman. The two 
regional counsellor conferences were also successful events with a 
total of 150 counsellors attending. 

Spring expectations of a difficult summer because of the 
economy and Expo 86 proved to be true, but the impact was, in 
general, not nearly what was feared. Thanks to a generous grant 
from Recreation, Parks and Wildlife Foundation, our own 
Association contribution, and much hard work by Carson 
Herrick, we will have 27 delegates for the Camping Congress in 
Washington, D.C. 

Currently, preparations are now underway for our annual Fall 
Action Planning Weekend. In addition. Bob Sperling and Mike 
Walters attended the Camping Training Workshop in New 
Brunswick for the new Curriculum for Camp Directors developed 
by C.C.A. 

MANITOBA 
Executive Meetings 
f ituf} \ October 8 

( wA ] November 5 

\ -raHEi / December 3 

January 7 
" February 4 

Annual Conference 
March 13 - 15 

Parade of Camps Promotion 
April 2 - 4 

ONTARIO — Calendar of Events 
777 October 

jt L 1 Director’s Weekend October 3, 4, 5 
I l! O.C.A. Board Meeting October 28 
— —J-U November 

O.C.A. Executive Meeting November 25 


i! 


Calendar of Events 



IS 



December 

O.C.A. Board Meeting December 16 
January 1987 

O.C.A. Directors’ Staff Conference — Inn on the Park, 
January 15, 16, 17 

O.C.A. Executive Meeting January 27 
February 

O.C.A. Board Meeting February 24 
March 

Second International Congress March 2, 3,4, 5, 6 
O.C.A. Executive Meeting March 24 
April 

O.C.A. Annual Meeting April 23 (tentative) 

May 

O.C.A. Counsellor Conference May 8 
O.C.A. Standards Workshop 
O.C.A. Nurses’ Workshop 
June 

O.C.A. Skills Workshop 

A QUEBEC - L’Ete de I’A.C.Q. 

Depuis longtemps nous revons d’une 
mise a jour de la classification des 
archives de I’Association. Et bien, en avril 
- dernier, Emploi et Immigration Canada a 
approuve un projet qui nous a permi 
d’avoir une 6quipe de trois personnes qui ont travaille tout 
I’ete k reclassifier tous les dossiers et archives de 
I’Association. 

Ce nouveau systeme de classification pour les dossiers 
de camp s’est montr£ irks utile pour les trois consultants 
en accreditation qui ont visite un total de 76 camps durant 
Pete. Leo Venditti, Yves Legaplt et Louis Jean ont fait 
toutes ces visites, quatre d’entre-elles etant pour de 
nouveaux membres. 



Jean-Marc Amyot du service audio-visuel de R.L.Q. a 
aid6 & la promotion; camera en main, il a visite quelques un 
de nos camps et est revenue avec plus de 400 diapositives. 
Un diaporamo sera complete cet automne. Trois copies 
seront disponibles dans les deux langues. 

Vous avez deja regu une copie du depliant produit en 
collaboration avec le M.L.C.P. pour promouvoir les classes 
d’&ducation en plein-air. 50,000 copies frangaises et 
8,000 anglaises ont ete imprime et destribue en septembre 
a tous les directeurs d’ecoles et conseillers de la province. 

Un depliant semblable sera publit plus tara cette annee 
sous le theme “Emploi dans un camp d’ete.” Ce depliant 
aura pour but de promouvoir I’emploi dans les camps d’6t6 
et donner aux jeunes qui sont interess^s (’information de 
base. 

QUEBEC 

Y We had been dreaming since quite a while 

VA# about updating the classification of archives 
7WVv at the Association! Well, in April, Employ¬ 
ee yQ\ ment and Immigration Canada granted 

/ A \ A.C.Q. a project which allowed us to have a 
team of three persons who worked all summer 
at reclassifying all archives and all camp dossiers of the 
Association. 

The new classification system derived for the camp dossiers was 
of great help to the three accreditation consultants who visited a 
total of 76 camps during the summer. Leo Venditti, Yves Legault 
and Louis Jean did all visits; four of the visits were for new- 
members. 

Promotion also got a boost during the summer, Jean-Marc 
Amyot of the audio-visual services at R.L.Q. visited, camera in 
hand, a few of our camps and came back with some 400 slides. A 
slide show will be completed during the fall. Three copies of the 
show will be produced and the sound cassette will be available in 
both languages. 

You have already received copy of a pamphlet produced in 
collaboration with the M.L.C.P. to promote outdoor education 
classes. This pamphlet was printed in 50,000 French copies and 
8,000 English copies and was distributed, in September, to all 
school principals and consultants of the Province. 

A similar pamphlet will be published later this year under the 
theme: “Employment in a Summer Camp”. The pamphlet will 
be intended to promote employment in summer camps and to 
provide interested youth with the basic information. 

ATLANTIC REGIONAL NEWS 

by Ian Fowler — C.C.A./A.C.C. Vice-President 
(Atlantic Region) 

The summer of 1986 will be remembered in many different 
ways by each Atlantic Region Camp. In general, all camps 
enjoyed successful summers with increases in the number of 
children attending camp reported throughout the region. Camp 
participation in the C.C.A.’s 50th Anniversary celebrations 
through the Adventure Into The Past Program was limited. 
However, those participating found the program to be enjoyable. 
As well, a tip of the hat goes to ATV and the Halifax YMCA who 
co-operated in a “Consumer Watch” feature on preparing your 
child for camp, and selecting a children’s camp. Aired throughout 
Atlantic Canada, this was a very positive promotion for youth 
camping. 

Finally, the summer was busy preparing for the 1st Atlantic 
Region Conference which was held in Moncton October 4-6. 

NOVA SCOTIA 

Summer camps enjoyed a successful 
summer in Nova Scotia with all camps 
n n reporting a good enrollment. Through the 

efforts of a Job-Creation Grant, we 
were aWe t0 hire Joanne Jefferson who 


visited several camps and assisted in the promotion of C.A.N.S. 
An executive meeting in mid-August put together the require¬ 
ments for a Planning Seminar to be held in Halifax, October 
17th - 18th which we feel will provide new direction and 
momentum for the Camping Association of Nova Scotia. 

NEW BRUNSWICK 

A On October 1st to 3rd, 1986 the New 
Brunswick Camping Association held the first 
Atlantic Regional Conference “A Half 
Century of Service and Growth”. This 
title was to acknowledge the Canadian Camping Association’s 
fiftieth anniversary. Seventy-five delegates attended this very 
successful event, which was highlighted by the leadership of 
Michael Brandwein, a lawyer and communication expert from 
Chicago. 

NOUVEAU BRUNSWICK 

▲ Du 1 ®r au 3 oct., 1986,1’Association des 

Camps du Nouveau-Brunswick a 6te 
i’hote de la premiere conference 
Regionale de PAtlantique “Un demi- 
sifecle de service et de croissance”. Ce 
th6me voulait soulign6 le 50© Anniversaire de I’A.C.C. 
Soixante-quinze detegues ont assiste & cet 6v6nement 
couronne de succ&s dont le clou a ete Michael Brandwein, 
un avocat et expert en communication de Chicago. 

The New Brunswick Camping Association and its camp 
members enjoyed an active and successful summer. Although the 
weather was inclement most camps reported a solid increase in 
attendance. The association’s zone reps were busy throughout the 
summer making camp visitations, while the Training Committee 
hosted two successful spring workshops. The association looks 
forward to its upcoming meeting at which time the Association’s 
3 -year plan will be reviewed and extended. 

N.B.C.A. Calendar of Events 
February 12-15 Winter Outdoor Skills Institute 

April 3-4 Camp Committee Workshop 

April 4 Semi-Annual Meeting 

May 1 Provincial Camping Cay 

May 22 - 24 Counsellor/Director Conference 

June 13-15 Canoe Instructor’s Institute 

October 2-3 Fall Conference 

October 3 Annual Meeting 

October 30, 31, Nov. 1 Outdoor Skills Institute 

NEWFOUNDLAND 
The 1986 summer may well be remem- 

I bered as the summer that never happened 

— rr "~ in Newfoundland, yet despite generally 
cooler and overcast weather camping was 
not dampened in the least. All the camps in the province, most of 
which are church or agency camps, functioned to normal capacity 
and generally reported a good year. The Newfoundland and 
Labrador Camping Association has resumed its fall meeting series 
and is planning for a winter camp leadership and skills workshop 
in early January. 

An updated Provincial Camp Directory will soon be published 
and a fall newsletter is imminent. Included in the winter season's 
plans is to send six delegates to the International Camping 
Conference in Washington next March, and to host a leader 
training seminar in conjunction with a Spring Conference and 
Workshop in April, to which C.C.A. president Janet Adamson is 
to be invited. 

Frank O’Connor, President, N.L.C.A. 


5 





Committee Notes/Les Notes Des Comites 


C.C.A. Professional 
Development Committee 


Nancy Barker, has moved from Toronto 
to Alberta (Camp Chief Hector). She will 
continue to direct this Committee with her 
volunteers stationed in Toronto. 

Archives Report 

Last winter the Archives Committee 
mailed out a “Brown Bag” envelope to all 
Provincial Presidents, self addressed to 
Trent University. The same information 
will go out again this year. 

In the meantime, I hope that all 
camping people will be aware of the 
important fact that “today’s titles are the 
stuff that history is made of”. 

Bernadine Dodge of Trent University, 
Peterborough, Ontario K9J 7B8, will be 
grateful for all contributions. 

Commission des Camps 
d’Expression Francaise 

L’ete ne fut pas propice k la 
realisation de nos grands projets 
puisqu’il s’agit d’une saison fort bien 
remplie. 

Nous avons un nouveau membre 
pour notre Commission en la 
personne de M. Michel Gratton de 
Hearst en Ontario. Nous compton 
ainsi deux membres, “hors Quebec”, 
ce qui devrait maintenant donner une 
image plus fidele de la realite du fait 
frangais dans le monde des Camps. 

Le Repertoire (2 e edition) de 
I’lnventaire des Camps d’Expression 
frangaise (INCEF) est lance. M. Jean- 
Luc Cote du Conseil de la Vie 
Frangaise en Amerique avec qui nous 
collaborons pour la realisation du 
repertoire en est a la cueillette des 
donnees. Si done vous connaissez un 
camp francophone vous pouvez leur 
procurer le formulaire description 
en vous adressant k M. Jean-Luc 
Cote, 59, rue d’Auteuil, Quebec, Qc, 
G1R 4C2. 

Notre prochaine etape consists a 
elaborer notre politique linguistique 
pour I’Association des Camps du 

Canada. _ 

Gerard Bachand, pres. 

Commission des Camps 
d’expression frangaise. 

French Language 
Committee 


The directory of all French-Speaking 
Camps is on its way. Mr. Jean-Luc Cote 
of the “Conseil de la Vie Francoise en 
Amerique”, with whom we are 
collaborating towards the realization of 
this directory is gathering data. So, if you 
know of a French Camp, you can obtain a 
registration form by writing to Jean-*Luc 
Cote, 59 rue d’Auteuil, Quebec, Qbc. 
G1R4C2. 

Our next step will be to elaborate our 
linguistic policy for the C.C.A. 


The current task for the committee has 
been to work with a printer to complete 
the publication of the Curriculum for 
Camp Directors. The process involved a 
submission to Fitness Canada to assist in 
the publication of the English and French 
versions. A tendering process was initiated 
to Find the printer. Proofs were approved 
by Fitness Canada and now it is the 
committee’s intention to have the publi¬ 
cation in circulation before the end of 
October. The workshop in Moncton was 
to have as its focus for one day, the 
Curriculum —its use, its promotion and 
benefits provincially and nationally to the 
camping and outdoor community. It will 
be in a binder, with an attractive graphics 
on the cover and the contents also include 
an extensive bibliography. 

Plans for the future include continued 
research on the bibliography but a great 
amount of committee time will be given to 
assisting each province with whatever 
results and actions are forth-coming from 
the meeting in Moncton. 

D. Walter, 
Chairman 

Fund Raising Report 

A fund raising drive led by Jack Pearse 
of Camp Tawingo has solicited nearly 
$10,000.00 in donations in the first Five 
months of activity. These donations have 
been from people within the camping 
community across Canada. Fund raising 
will continue as this concept is developed 
and expanded by the Fund Raising 
Committee. 

Rapport de la Campagne 
de souscription 

La campagne de souscription mene 
par. Jack Pearse du Camp Tawingo a 
amasse pres de $10,000.00 dans ses 
premiers cinq mois d’existence. Ces 
dons viennent de personnes 
associees avec le camping d’un bout 
a I’autre du Canada. 

Cette campagne se poursuivra 
certainement alors que son concept 
continuera a se developper et a 
s’ameliorer par I’entremise du comite 
de souscription. 

Publications Committee 

Book sale revenues are increasing. The 
Committee is supplying books for sale at 
conferences and workshops in every 
region, and promoting sales in “Between 
the Covers” articles in provincial news¬ 
letters and the Canadian Camping 
Magazine. The Committee Chairman, 


“Dave Sands: Liaison to 1987 International 
Camping Congress” 

National Conferences and 
Workshops Committee 

by Glenn Bamed 

Workshops usually have two sides to 
their make-up. One side is the social 
activity that builds the group and 
strengthens their commitment towards the 
results of the workshop. The other facet is 
the actual work and the results that come 
out during the event. As members of the 
1986 National Workshop gathered in 
Moncton, New Brunswick, on 
Wednesday, October the first, it indeed 
looked like it was going to be a super 
workshop. Wednesday evening began 
with delegates from each Provincial 
Association introducing themselves and 
explaining a little about their connection 
with Canadian Camping. Bob Latimer, a 
trainer from the National Training 
Institute, led us through the first two days 
of our workshop. The purpose and 
direction for the workshop was briefly 
outlined by Bob and the group broke for 
free time while we began to meld into a 
cohesive group. 

Day two — On Thursday, we began to 
look at the curriculum for Camp 
Directors’ development. Dorothy Walter 
and her Committee put together an 


The summer was not the most 
favourable for our projects since we had a 
very busy season. 

We have a new committee member in 
Michel Gratton of Hearst, Ontario. We 
thus have two “out-of-Quebec” 
members which should help promote the 
reality of French in the camping world. 


6 




excellent tool to educate Canadian Camp 
Directors. At the workshop, it was our 
task to decide the best method for using 
the tool and taking it back to each 
Province. The group struggled in terms of 
trying to discover the document and what 
it actually was, the history behind it, and 
how it was intended to be used. We 
developed three sample prototype work¬ 
shops which could be used by Provincial 
Camping Associations to educate their 
Camp Directors. 

Day three — On Friday, we started the 
second facet of our workshop by looking 
at volunteer Board member development. 
The purpose of this part of the workshop 
was to assist delegates in the continuing 
process of developing their Provincial 
Boards and individual members. The 
morning sessions began by examining the 
planning process and working through 
several exercises of developing plans, 
looking at long-range and strategic 
planning, planning-by-objective steps, 
and generally the nature of planning with 
errors and pitfalls. After a terrific break 
for lunch outside the hotel complex, we 
studied various aspects of volunteerism. 
Upon examining the rationale and values 
of volunteerism, we looked more closely 
at recruitment in terms of the hows and 
whys of attaining the appropriate and 
committed volunteers. This was the end of 
Bob Latimer’s time with us, so he thanked 
us and we thanked him for our mutual 
efforts in the workshop. 

On the evening of Friday, we attended 
the opening of the First Regional 
Conference to be held in Eastern Canada. 
The kickoff began with an address by 
Jocelyn Palm who provided a thought- 
provoking informative talk using Charlie 
Brown and others to explore the role of 
Camp, campers and staff. A super way to 
begin a super Conference. 

Day four — Saturday was a tremen¬ 
dous hit as the delegates attended Michael 
Brandwein’s sessions at the Regional 
Conference. The purpose was not only to 
take back the information and meat from 
Michael’s sessions, but also to examine his 
style and techniques of delivery of his 
various sessions. Michael is a very 
dynamic and positive trainer who 
captures the interest and attention of 
every person in the room and he was an 
excellent role model for all trainers. The 
evening was topped off with a 50th 
Birthday Party for the Canadian Camping 
Association. To celebrate our 
Anniversary, the New Brunswick 
Camping Association provided cake, 
balloons, fun and games for everyone. A 
very nice way to end a long and enjoyable 
day at a Conference. 

Day five — On Sunday, the delegates 
from the Canadian Camping Association 
National Workshop regrouped once more 
to finish our workshop. We began with an 
overview of the first four days and how 


and why the various items occurred. Next, 
we evaluated Michael Brandwein’s 
sessions in terms of the methods and styles 
he used to see which would be appro¬ 
priate or could be used in a “back-home” 
setting. The trainers sensed the power 
Michael had by being positive and 
dynamic and using his own “Ten 
Commandments in Communication” in 
terms of his training style. Our next step 
was to examine the Board development 
sessions in terms of planning and 
volunteerism. Various delegates shared 
how they were going to make use of this 
information and how they would pass it 
on using events and activities that were 
already happening back in their 
Provinces. This sharing of ideas and 
suggestions enhanced the learning that 
took place and also provided many new 
ideas for the delegates to utilize at home. 

Then, we tackled the curriculum for 
Camp Directors. A statement was made 
about the documentation that would be 
sent to all the delegates within six weeks of 
the workshop. These would include the 
three sample prototype workshops as well 
as supporting material for these 
workshops; a shopping list of other 
possible uses of the curriculum which 
could be considered by the Provincial 
Associations; a contact sheet for 
networking between the delegates; and 
other pieces of information as requested 
by the delegates. Janet Adamson shared a 
proposed action plan which took the 
delegates through a step-by-step process 
beginning with the final day of the 
Conference, through the initial steps of 
how to work through their Boards and 
their Education or Training Committees 
to a point of putting on the first workshop 
in their Province and begin to train Camp 
Directors using the curriculum as designed 
by the Professional Development 
Committee. 

A suggestion was quickly picked up to 
ask the Executive of CCA to produce a 
certificate to acknowledge a Camp 
Director’s completion of, or attendance 
at, training for the Camp Director’s 
personal development. 

This brought us close to the conclusion 
of the workshop with the usual 
evaluations and with one unique twist. A 
contract was produced which the dele¬ 
gates were asked to sign along with the 
President of CCA. The contract basically 
formed a commitment on behalf of the 
delegates and of CCA. By signing the 
contract, the delegates agreed to take the 
information of the workshop back to the 
Provinces and continue with Board 
development and Camp Directors’ 
development. The CCA President agreed 
to do a follow-up with the delegates, to 
provide the documentation from this 
workshop, to provide input and resources 
as requested for both the Board develop¬ 
ment and the Camp Directors’ 


development, and finally, a commitment 
from herself to the intent of the work¬ 
shop. The contracts included specific 
dates for the delegates to complete the 
first steps of getting “the ball rolling in 
their Provinces”. There were also dates 
set for follow-up to be done by the 
President of CCA. 

Many many people have to be 
thanked for the success of this National 
Workshop. To mention a few, I would 
have to include Johnny Comfort, 
McSweeny’s Bar and Grill, Janet 
Adamson — President of CCA, Dorothy 
Walter — Chairman of the Professional 
Development Committee, Ian 
Fowler — Vice President of the CCA, 
Rochelle Bordeleau — Chairman of the 
Regional Conference and all the members 
of her Committee who helped to make our 
workshop run smoothly. A final “thank 
you” to all the delegates from the 
Provinces, the Provinces who assisted 
them and to the Board members of CCA 
who attended part of our workshop. It is 
the calibre of the people the Provinces 
sent that will keep CCA strong and 
growing. The results of this workshop will 
be seen in every Province across Canada. 
If you wish to get more information on 
the Board development or on the 
curriculum for Camp Directors, I urge 
you to contact the representative from 
your Province. 

In conclusion, I would have to say that 
the delegates left the Canadian National 
Workshop as a joint body to further the 
interests of Canadian Camping. To sum it 
up with one quotation, I would use the 
words from the song which ended our 
vesper service on Sunday morning: “The 
road that we are travelling is long ‘till 
journey’s end; we share one destination 
so walk with me, my friend”. 



“Professional Camp Counselling from 
Michael Brand we in” 




A Pioneer Centre Centre des pioniers 

Janet Adamson, Camp Gay Venture, Haliburton, Ontario 


Between 
The Covers Jt 

!! Christmas Special !! 
10% Discount 

Looking for a gift for a budding nature 
photographer? Here’s a thorough guide to 
the techniques of creative photography in 
the out-of-doors. Photography Of 
Natural Things shows you innovative 
ways of capturing the subjects and moods 
of nature. Generously illustrated with 
superb colour plates by the master 
himself, Freeman Patterson. 

Magic Ring is a charming book of 
poems and verses for children. If you 
know someone who reads aloud to 
children, or collects children’s books for 
their own enjoyment, this publication 
would enhance their collection. 
Selections of works from great poets, 
children and counsellors fill the pages. 
Most importantly, young people are 
encouraged to do their own writing. 

Camp directors! How about a games 
book for a prospective camp staff 
member or even for yourself? Clouds On 
The Clothesline has a treasury of 
activities. There is a concise key for each 
game listing the number of people, age, 
formation and equipment needed. This 
well organized book covers a variety of 
games from specialty areas such as water, 
nature, active relays for the in and out- 
of-doors, mixers, quizzes and many 
others. A handy resource book for any 
leader. 

Suitable for individual reflection, The 
Earth Speaks is an enriching book for 
those who love the Earth and what it has 
to offer. It is a collection of writings by 
conservationists who were able to capture 
the magic and meaning of the earth’s 
marvels. In moments of solitude or in 
sharing circles, leaders and nature lovers 
will appreciate these words and 
illustrations. 

Until December 15, 1986, the books 
listed above will be sold at a 10% 
discount. 

Photography of Natural Things, Van 
Nostrand Reinhold Publishers, 168 p., 
1982. Hardback. 

Cost: $22.90 (Members) Now: $20.60 
$26.95 (Non-Members) $24.24 

Magic Ring, American Camping Associ¬ 
ation, 182 p., 1985. 

Cost: $19.25 (Members) Now: $17.50 
$23.10 (Non-members) $20.79 

Clouds on the Clothesline, Camp 
Tawingo Publications, 226 p., 1981. 

Cost: $8.25 Now: $7.40 

Continued on Page 9 


Cet article nous donne les grandes legnes d’un programme des plus 
interessant qui se developpe au Camps Gay Venture. 

Grace a une cabane en bois sur place, les campeurs ont I’occasion de se 
familiariser avec leur heritage passe. Pieces de musee, d’arts et archives sont 
a leur disposition. 

Several years ago we started a Pioneer Craft Program at GayVenture that has grown 
into an activity centre called at our camp “The Log Cabin” but which really should be 
named the “Pioneer Museum and Activity Program”. 

This activity has proven to be very successful and I am going to detail very briefly 
the components. 

PHYSICAL SITE — in the woods removed from other activity areas 

— a log cabin, either moved from another site, or constructed 
from local logs. The building can be of a very simple design 

— the cabin is set up with pioneer artifacts (listed below), dis¬ 
played and set up for use 

— one section is furnished as a pioneer kitchen with a wood 
stove used for cooking 

— pioneer costumes (aprons and bonnets) are available for 
campers to wear for some activities. 

The program has four components — Pioneer Museum, Pioneer Craft Activities, 
Associated Activities, and a Camp Archival Collection. 

Pioneer Museum — collect and display with labels: candle snuffers, pioneer 
tools, farm implements, butter churn, pioneer kitchen 
implements, lanterns, furniture, pumps, wagon wheels 

— the collection grows as people donate items 

— we have slowly added more up-to-date items that today’s 
campers have never seen in use, such as, an old lawn mower, 
the original camp pump, meat grinders — the list can be 
endless. 


Pioneer Craft Activities — soap making, candle making, cooking (mainly muffins 

and buns, jams from berries picked in July), rug weaving, 
apple dolls, reed weaving, nature dyeing, quilting, 
Christmas decorations from pine cones and nuts, 
pioneer three-legged stools, paper making, spinning 
wool, embroidery 

— there are many resources from which to secure recipes 
and activity ideas, in libraries and at local pioneer 

villages. Continued on Page 9 






The Earth Speaks, Acclimatization Ex¬ 
periences Institute, 184 p., 1983. 

Cost: $13.70 (Members) Now: $12.30 
$16.40 (Non-Members) $14.75 


Associated Activities 


Books listed in *‘Between The Covers 11 
are available from the Canadian Camping 
Association Bookstore. 


A PIONEER CENTRE (cont’d from page 8) 
— visits to local museums, Pioneer Days including corn 
roasts, cabin group overnights in “the Log Cabin”, 
pancake breakfasts for a cabin group in “the Log 
Cabin”, theme activities based on living history in which 
campers are involved in a rotation from station to 
station at which pioneer life scenes are set up and 
demonstrated, such as “the school teacher”. 


Orders that are $20.00 or less must be 
prepaid with $2.00 added for shipping. 
Contact the C.C.A. office by mail or 
phone: 

Canadian Camping Association, 

1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, 

Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
(416) 781-4717 

Publications Committee — C.C.A./A.C.C. 


Entres 
Les Lignes 



Camp Archival Collection — a collection of old camp photos, crests, brochures, 

letters, manuals 

— these are displayed in one area of the cabin for 
campers to browse through 

— again this collection grows as former campers and 
staff donate items. 

This is a very brief description of a “Pioneer Centre”. It is an activity that grows 
from small beginnings. Each component can be developed a great deal and grows each 
year. A Pioneer Centre adds a richness to camp life and becomes a centre that campers 
and staff enjoy visiting as part of their daily life at camp. For instance, we often have 
hot chocolate on the stove in the cabin and campers drop in on their way home from 
swimming, and look for a picture of their mother in the photo collection. 

Once you start this activity you will find that the resources and ideas available to 
expand it are endless and very varied depending on your geographical location. I would 
imagine that in the Maritimes the history of fishing could be used and in areas of Indian 
activity, this could be included. I don’t know if any camps have archeological digs but 
there are experts who probably would love to use an area of your camp for one. 


A “Pioneer Centre”, why not try it? 


F. C. Guillet 
F. C. Guillet 
A. Langton 
Mabel O’Donnell 
Alice Morse Earl 
Elsie Davenport 
Violetta Thurston 
Edwin Tunis 
Jared van Wagenen 
Audrey Spencer 
Mary O’Brien 
Catherine Parr Trail 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Pioneer Arts and Crafts 

Pioneer Farmer and Backwoodsman 

A Gentlewoman in Upper Canada 

Singing Wheels 

Home Life in Colonial Days 

York Dyeing 

Use of Vegetables Dyes for Beginners 

Colonial Living 

Golden Age of Homespun 

Spinning and Weaving at Upper Canada Village 

Journals of Mary O’Brien 

Canadian Settlers Guide 


Special de Noel 
10% d’escompte 

Vous cherchez un cadeau pour un 
photographe en herbe? Void un guide 
d6taill& des techniques de photo¬ 
graphies se rapportant k la nature. 
Photography of Natural Things vous 
montre comment capturer de manidre 
ing&nieuse les diff&rents attraits et 
couleurs de la nature. Plusieurs illus¬ 
trations et de superbes photos 
couleurs de I’auteur, Freeman 
Patterson, competent ce livre. 

Magic Ring est un livre charmant 
de po&mes et rimes pour enfants. Si 
vous connaissez quelqu’un qui aime 
lere aux enfants ou collectionent des 
livres d’enfants, ce livre ne fera 
qu’ajouter k leur collection. Les 
pages sont remplies de selection 
d’ouvrage de poetes, d’enfants et de 
conseillers. De plus encourage ies 
jeunes a 6crire leurs propres 
histoires. 

Directeurs de Camps! Un livre de 
jeux pour vous ou votre personnel, 
Clouds on the Clothesline, est rempli 
d’ide&s. Vous y trouverez pour chaque 
jeu, I’enformatlon regardant le 
nombre de personnel, age, 
equipement et formation. Ce livre 
couvre une grande vari6t6 de jeux 
allant des jeux aquatiques, relais, 
ceux ayant trait k la nature jusqu’aux 
jeux interieurs, devinettes et autres. 
Un livre des plus utiles pour tout 
leader. 

The Earth Speaks est sugg6r6 pour 
ceux qui aiment la Terre et ce qu’elle 


a k offrer. Une collection d’ecrlts par 
des naturalistes qui ont rfeussi k 
capturer I’essence m§me des 
merveilles de la Terre. Pour des 
moments de tranquility ou de 
solitude, leaders et amis de la nature 
apprecieront ces ecrits et illus¬ 
trations. 

Jusqu’au 15 Dec. 1986, vous pouvez 
vous procurer ces livres avec 10% de 
rabais. 

Photography of Natural Things, Van 
Nostrand Editeurs Reinhold, 168 p., 
1982. Non disponible en livre de 
poche. 

CoGt: $22.90 (membres) 

Maintenant: $20.60 
$26.95 (non-membres) 

Maintenant $20.79 
Magic Ring, American Camping 
Association, 182 p., 1985. 

CoOt: $19.25 (membres) 

Maintenant $17.50 
$23.10 (non-membres| 

Maintenant $20-79 


Clouds on the Clothesline, Publi¬ 
cations du Camp Tawlngo, 226 p., 
1981. 

CoOt: $8.25 Maintenant $$7.40 

The Earth Speaks, Acclimatization 
Experiences institute, 184 p., 1983. 
CoGt: $13.70 (membres) 

Maintenant $12.30 
$16.40 (non-membres) 

Maintenant $14.75 

Les livres mention n£s dans “Entre 
les lignes” sont disponibles a la 
libralre de I’A.C.C. 

Les Commandos de $20^00 et 
moins doivent §tre payees a I’avance 
avec $2.00 en sus pour couvrir les 
frals de livralson. 

S’adresser au bureau de TA.C.C. 
par tyiaphone ou par la poste : 
Canadian Camping Association, 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
(416) 781-4717 

Publications Ciommittee~^ G,6.^JA.QiC. 


9 





PERSONALITY PROFILE 


Le Profil De Personnalite 


W. E. (Ted) Yard i- 

(1919 - 1983) | 

Ted Yard was the Director of the 
Toronto Y.M.C.A. Camp Pine Crest 
from 1946 - 1963 and his own private 
independent Camp Hollyburn from 
1968 - 1982. In the intervening years, he ^ 

and Alex “Sass” Peepre conducted a 
wilderness canoe-tripping program for 
the Sault Ste. Marie Family Y.M.C.A., 
when Ted was General Secretary of that 
Association. 

Ted was President of the Canadian ^ 

Camping Association from 1953 - 1955 
and, during that time, he and his family 
drove across Canada visiting each 
Provincial Camping Association and 
many Camps along the way. 

He was President of the Ontario 
Camping Association from 1950 - 1952 

and had a second tour of duty with _ 

the O.C.A. Board as Treasurer from 
1971 - 74. CANADIAN CAMPING 
MAGAZINE conducted this interview 
with Ted’s wife, Shirley, and their son, 

Ted, who along with his wife, Darlene, 
directs Camp Hollyburn. 


INTERVIEW WITH SHIRLEY YARD 
AND TED YARD JR. 

CANADIAN CAMPING: Did Ted always know he wanted a 
career in camping? 

SHIRLEY YARD: I don’t think so because he started out 
working with young people at a very early age himself. 
Actually, he started working with young people through 
boxing. 

CC: Where was that, Shirley? 

SY: In Vancouver. Of course, I didn’t know Ted then, so I have 
to reach back and pull out little bits of information he may 
have told me along the way. I think he started out working 
with inner-city boys .... gangs .... if you would like to 
call them that.... who during the war needed someone to 
give them direction. Through working with these boys, the 
“Y” asked him if he would like to bring this program into 
the “Y”. 

CC: So, his work with youth started outside the YMCA. 

SY: I think so, to do with his boxing, because he was a golden 
glove boxer himself and because he was able to use the 
facilities at the “Y”. The YMCA said to him at one point, 
“If you will work for us, we will send you to University.” 
It was then that he started a group called the Triple C, 
which meant City Camp Counsellors — this, I believe, 
was around 1941 - 42, somewhere in there. 

CC: And that was under the auspices of the YMCA in 
Vancouver. 

SY: Well, these were boys who were in these gangs, who were 
programmed through the “Y” but were not in the “Y” 
necessarily. He also started a Boys* Town. These were the 
same young boys who came in and met there once a week. 
Through these groups, he got his interest in camping be¬ 
cause he had ... the first winter camp ... I don’t know if 


iatj, 


W. E. (Ted) Yard 
(1919-1983) 

Ted Yard a ete le dlrecteur du Camp 
Pine Crest du YMCA de Toronto de 
1946 -1963, et de son propre camp, le 
Camp Hollyburn, de 1968 - 1982. Dans 
I’intermediaire, il a dirige avec I’aide 
d’Alex “Sass” Peepre un programme 
d’explorations en canot pour le YMCA 
familial de Sault Ste-Marie. II etait 
alors le secretaire general de cette 
association. 

Ted tut president de I’A.C.C. de 
1953-1955 et pendant ce temps il a 
traverse avec sa famille tout le 
Canada, visitant chaque association 
provenciale de camping en plus de 
plusieurs Camps. 

II a ete le president de O.C.A. de 
1950 - 52 et pour son deuxieme sejour 
avec O.C.A. il tut membre du Conseil 
du Tresorde 1971 -74. 

Le magazine de Camping Canadien 
a realise cet interview avec Shirley, sa 
femme et Ted, son fils qui, avec sa 
femme Darlene, dirige maintenant le 
Camp Hollyburn. 


it was the first the “Y” ever had, but it was called Skyline 
Boys’ Camp. It was with boys from the different gangs . . . 
they called them gangs, too. 

CC: In West Vanvouver or ....? 

SY: All over Vancouver. 

TED YARD JR.: It began in the west end, right down in that 
very dense part of town. I read some clippings in Dad’s 
scrap book that showed this to be the beginning of the 
whole Lower Mainland “Y” . . . they were training 
leaders. The article mentioned they couldn’t train leaders 
fast enough for this new program that started in the west 
end for the “gang” kind of thing. So, that is where it 
all began. 

CC: It wasn’t camping, but he called the group “City Camp 
Counsellors”. 

SY: Yes, because one of their objectives was to take the boys 
out of the city into a camp situation and these gangs . . . 
it worked so well. . . having the gangs have their own little 
association ... it worked so well as Ted says, “They had 
to keep training new leaders because so many of them 
wanted to be in on this”. 

TY: Well, all of the other YMCA’s in the Lower Mainland 
wanted to start similar programs. 

SY: As a matter of fact, some of the Triple C er’s, many years 
later, worked with Ted at Camp Pine Crest. 

CC: So, the YMCA in Vancouver hired Ted full time and he 
went to the University of British Columbia at the same 
time... 

SY: For about 3 years, because it was around 1945 when he got 
his degree in order to qualify as a YMCA Secretary. 

CC: Were there people in Vancouver who influenced him in 
those early years? 


10 






11 






In those days if a YMCA camp had any profit, it often went 
back into the City Branch to maintain that part of the 
operation but, with Ted, I guess he was able to use all of 
his budget, was he? 

Well, eventually. Originally when Ted went there, the 
Camp was subsidized because it had just gone through the 
war years and things were not in good shape either 
financially or physically. As the years went along, it 
became apparent that this could be a self-supporting 
Branch. It paid all the salaries, it re-built ... at that time 
when Ted was there the whole camp was re-built, literally 
and figuratively ... all paid out of the operation. Now, I 
know there were little mortgages along the way but they 
were dispensed with in due course. 

In those eighteen years at Camp Pine Crest, there were 
some really important things that happened in YMCA 
Camping because of the things Ted was doing, like year- 
round camping and having Pine Crest as a Branch of the 
Toronto YMCA. What else went on, then? 

You mean like the re-building of the whole Camp? That 
was done over a number of years, of course, but it was a 
vast project and I think this is one reason why Ted stayed 
in camping at Pine Crest for so long, because he had a goal. 
He hadn’t finished doing all the things he wanted to do to 
build Pine Crest up to what it was when he left, both 
financially independent and physically refurbished 
completely and . .. 




“The 'new' winter lodge at Camp Pine Crest and some of the earliest 

winter camping in Canada** 

CC: Have you thought of something, Ted? 

TY: Yes, it wasn’t only a physical re-building, or even the 
financial management, but it was putting his own personal 
stamp on the place, too, and establishing his own leader¬ 
ship there. I know he related to me what a difficult time it 
was when he first arrived there. He inherited the staff that 
was already at Pine Crest for that summer and I guess it was 
a pretty tough situation because they didn’t know who he 
was and vice-versa. There was no question about it, he had 
to establish the kind of philosophy of sticking to principles, 
I guess, and making his staff also live by them. That was 
really starting after the first year, establishing his leader¬ 
ship in that way. After that when he was able to hire his 
own staff, it changed. It was a little easier, but those first 
few years were particularly difficult, from that standpoint, 
not just from re-building but from establishing his 
leadership. 

CC: Well if he hadn’t done that, he wouldn’t have been able to 
live with himself, to start with, but it would have been 
impossible then for Camp Pine Crest to be the kind of 
Camp Ted Yard knew he wanted it to be. 


TY: I think it was all part of putting his own principles and 
ideals on the line. The Camp had to be that and the people 
working there had to do that. This carried on throughout 
the 18 years he was at Pine Crest. He was very much his 
own ... it was a very important part of his imprint on the 
place. 

CC: People in camping, in general, looked to Ted as the voice 
of YMCA camping in the country and there were things 
he did, both through the Camping Committee of the 
YMCA National Council and through his time at Pine 
Crest, that made an impact on camping. Can you recall 
any of those things? 

SY: Ted had very strong feelings about certain ways or 
directions the Camping Association should go and he was 
not the kind of person who held back on anything like this. 
He said that, if he didn’t agree with something, he would 
come right out and say so. It is not exactly how you win 
friends and influence people. You could influence people, 
but you might lose your friends. Occasionally, I think this 
is what would happen and then, in the long run, it would 
be for the betterment of everybody . . . both the Associ¬ 
ation and the camping movement. 

CC: He felt so strongly about things and he would say it right 
from the shoulder the way it was. At the time, it was hard 
to swallow but, in retrospect, we remember all the 
enormous contributions he made and how important they 
really were to camping. 

SY: Well, I think so too. Ted believed that he couldn’t sit back 
and not speak out. Usually, it turned out that most people 
would agree with him. He was not always right. . . nobody 
ever is; but in some instances his ideals and principles 
were very strong and this got him into hot water. I think 
most people valued this about him. There was one time 
when he was President of the Canadian Camping Associ¬ 
ation and he decided he would like to visit every Camping 
Association across the country and at that point I believe 
we had two children. 

CC: Judy and Jack. 

SY: Yes, Judy and Jack ... so, for our holidays we decided we 
would do a cross-country trip in the car with these two 
little kids. He had arranged ahead of time and he visited 
and spoke to every Association going west from Ontario. 
We didn’t go east. I don’t know whether there were 
Associations at that time in the east. (Ed’s note: At that 
time, the Quebec Camping Association was the only 
Provincial Association east of Ontario). We went west 
and I can remember sometimes I would not be able ... I 
would be in a motel with these two little kids and Ted 
would be busy speaking somewhere and then the next 
thing we knew we would roar onto the next place. It was a 
wonderful thing, actually, because people knew at these 
Associations that Ted was the leader in the Canadian 
Camping Association. A lot of them needed help along 
the way in those early days because it was a new thing, 
wasn’t it? 

CC: The really important thing you did and Ted did, as 
President, was to make that trip and to have everybody 
across the country feel they were an integral part of a 
nationwide movement. Wow! 

SY: And that it wasn’t just Ontario ... 

CC: You know, shortly after that, people recognized there were 
camping people everywhere across the country who could 
lead the National Association because, up until that time, 
the President of the Canadian Camping Association was 
either from Quebec or from Ontario (and even more 
specifically from Montreal or Toronto) and, shortly after 
you made your cross-Canada trip, it began that Presidents 
and Executives and Boards of the Canadian Camping 


12 




Association were provincially-located. It was a monu¬ 
mental thing you did and it must have been an enormous 
sacrifice... 

SY: Well, not really, I mean when you’re at that stage you 
don’t mind doing those things. Now, when I look back, I 
wonder how on earth we ever did it but not when you’re 
young and interested in what you’re doing and you are 
living a life of camping. Another thing that Ted did, I don’t 
know what year it was, was a survey on YMCA Camp 
Stephens for Don Phelan. They re-constructed the whole 
Camp according to his survey. That would be in the sixties 
because Don Phelan went to Winnipeg YMCA in 1962, 
the year before we went to Sault Ste. Marie. 

CC: In 1959 when he was doing his Masters program at George 
Williams College in Chicago, he put together a Camp 
Director’s Calendar month by month throughout the 
year that many, many people still use. 

SY: Yes, that was a big contribution for him to have done 
that... I didn't know about that... I mean I knew he did 
something but I didn’t realize it was that significant... 

CC: Oh boy! As a matter of fact, it is still in use . . . the Ted 
Yard Camp Director’s Calendar. Do you want to mention 
other things he did for the Y? 

SY: There was a project of the Boys’ Work Committee of the 
National Council YMCA. It is a survey of costs and 
factors in Canadian YMCA Camps. This is probably what 
he did his thesis on when he completed his Master’s 
degree at George Williams College in 1958/59. 

CC: During those eighteen years at Camp Pine Crest, can you 
recall the names of any people that might have influenced 
him even more in his professional career... 

SY: Definitely, Ken Lemon would be one. He was a Committee 
Chairman in 1946,1 think, when Ted first came from the 
West. Ken has been an influence and still is an influence in 
all that the Yard family did. He was one person who 
definitely helped Ted in more ways than one. Sometimes 
when he needed support, particularly in his decisions to 
do with his direction in camping .... another is Sass 
Peepre. He came to Canada and to Camp Pine Crest in 
1950. He could not speak English and, almost every day, 
Ted took an hour or so to help him learn English. Their 
friendship grew from that and from their common interest 
in the out-of-doors and skiing, woodcraft, teaching young 
people how to live and love the out-of-doors . . . and 
also in introducing orienteering to North America ... we 
have a memorial orienteering course at Hollybum named 
for Sass and this is where he will go on forever. 

CC: At one time, the American Army had Sass as their expert 
on Orienteering and particularly as it related to cross¬ 
country skiing... orienteering on skis. 

SY: Well, if it hadn’t been for Sass, orienteering would have 
come to North America eventually, I am sure, but he was 
the one who introduced it back in the late 50’s. 

CC: And then the outdoor-related courses that Sass taught at 
the University of Guelph were strongly influenced by Ted 
because of Sass’ early association. 

SY: I would say that Sass helped Ted to maintain his interest in 
the out-of-doors and to develop his interest along 
different lines. 

TY: There was a reinforcement there for Dad, too. Sass shared 
many of the same kind of values and perhaps you might 
go as far as saying some of his inflexible ideals about 
things. I think they both shared a lot of those things. 

SY: They were both very strong people. 

CC: Who, besides me and many other grateful former YMCA 
Camp Directors, did Ted influence during those years? 


SY: Well, I would certainly say he influenced a great many 
young people because, especially since Ted has been gone, 
they have made a point of telling me this; there is one 
person in particular who is still associated with Hollybum 
and his name is John Hawkins. Quite openly he said “If 
it hadn’t been for Ted, I wouldn’t be the person I am 
today, physically or mentally’’. But there are many people 
like that. It would be hard to name them all, to rhyme 
it all off because... 

CC: There are some that became Camp Directors . . . like Kirk 
Wipper for example... 

SY: When Kirk first came to Pine Crest I don’t think many 
people know that he couldn’t paddle a canoe at all. He 
and Ted used to go out and paddle canoes for hours on 
end. I felt that maybe Ted influenced Kirk in his love of 
canoes ... I don’t know that he did in developing his 
Kanawa Museum but I do know that Pine Crest was where 
Kirk first learned to paddle a canoe. 

CC: Well, canoes and canoeing became a passion with Kirk 
to the point where his is now recognized as one of the 
experts in the world. 

SY: Oh, I know someone else who might be interesting to tell 
you about is John Waadland ... he teaches at Trent 
University. I am not sure what he teaches but he has a 
doctorate now and he got his ... he wrote his thesis on 
Ernest Thompson Seton because of Ted. Ted had a 
collection of Seton’s books and it was while at Pine Crest, 
as a counsellor, that he interested John in Ernest 
Thompson Seton and loaned him a lot of these books. 
Afterwards, he sent this thesis to Ted and at the frontJohn 
acknowledged Ted which I thought was really wonderful. 
It made Ted feel pretty proud. 

CC: Was there any Indian Council emphasis at Pine Crest. . . 
because of Ted’s love for Ernest Thompson Seton’s 
writing? 

SY: Only a Council fire once a week, if it was even that. Ted 
did not... we don’t do that at Hollybum either ... we 
only have it once in the year ... an actual Indian theme, 
because for some reason I think Ted . • . not that people 
don’t respect the Indian . . . but he felt that we should not 
make a big thing out of Indian Lore by imitating them but 
by celebrating with them. This was a different sort of 
concept. . . . that’s the feeling I always got . . . that he 
didn’t want to play up an Indian theme as such. 

TY: Even when we do our Indian Councils now, we are 
actually teaching them what the ceremony is because it is a 
very serious thing we do. From what I remember of Pine 
Crest, it was very much like that and in many of the 
letters we receive from former Pine Cresters, their most 
vivid memory is of Dad coming across in a canoe standing 
up being paddled by his Medicine Man coming to the 
Council Ring. It was a very moving experience for virtually 
every Pine Crester who took part in it because it was 
handled in that sort of way. 

SY: There were only three campfires for the three periods. And 
my children didn’t even know for a long time that their 
father was the Chief. 

CC: He was in costume... 

SY: Oh yes, and nobody knew. 

CC: But he had this respect for Ernest Thompson Seton and it 
must have been because of his knowledge and sharing his 
knowledge of Indian culture and Ceremony... 

SY: It was a real respect for it; there was no imitating, it was 
more teaching this ceremonial part of it. I think Ted felt 
quite strongly about that and there again was another 
reason why we didn’t call our Camp an Indian name. Of 
course, the main reason we called it “Hollybum” was the 
happy memory of Hollybum Ridge on the west coast. 


13 





CC: We have been interweaving Pine Crest and Hollyburn 
throughout this interview and we should get to Hollyburn 
soon. Meanwhile, the years between the finish of Pine 
Crest and the start of Hollyburn .. . let’s talk about that a 
little bit . . . his stint with the YMCA at Sault St. Marie 
was from... 

SY: 1963 to 1967. In 1963, Ted felt he had achieved the goals 
he had set for himself at Pine Crest. It was time to make a 
change and grow in a different way. Mind you, I should 
tell you that all through these years, from the time I knew 
Ted which was ‘46, we had always had a dream of starting 
or finding our own Camp. We had looked virtually from 
the east coast to the west coast and had never found the 
perfect site so, with going to Sault St. Marie, we thought 
“Well, we have been looking for twenty years. I guess we 
will never find it, so we will make our home in Sault St. 
Marie”. During that 3Vi years, Ted couldn’t keep out of 
camping and, along with Sass Peepre, he started the first 
young people’s canoe-trip in Sault St. Marie. There had 
been some camping going on there. It was day camping 
mostly at a place called Pawating. Because Sault St. Marie 
was already in the wilderness, there was not really that 
much need for establishing any kind of resident Camp. 
Anybody who went to Camp, as we know a resident Camp, 
usually went to John Island which is associated with the 
Sudbury YMCA. But back to Sass and Ted taking the first 
canoe trip. It really blossomed from there and was so 
successful that I understand after we left they went into a 
lot of extended canoe-tripping and they even bought a van. 
We had been 3 Vi years in Sault St. Marie and Ted, I guess, 
began to feel a little restless. We hadn’t been in camping 
and... 

TY: ... maybe we should mention a little bit about the new Y 
there before we move on... 

SY: ... he went up there specifically to build... or to supervise 
the building of a new Family YMCA. It was a different 
kind of life for Ted in that he was in a more executive 
position rather than an outdoor Camp man. 

CC: When was the new Y built... 

SY: It was built in 1964. The old Y was still there. They had to 
go out on a second campaign because there wasn’t enough 
money. Then, the old Y was demolished and the new Y 
built. I remember Lester Pearson came and laid the corner 
stone which was very exciting and there also was a coming 
together of the various religious groups in Sault St. Marie. 
It is almost 50 - 50 Roman Catholic and Protestant and, at 
that point, there was not much ecumenism going on, but 
the Y seemed to bring all those groups together. It was 
the facility for the people; there was no other swimming 
pool; there weren’t many recreational buddings as such; 
the family could participate as a group. It was the first 
Family Y in Canada. 

CC: During that V/i years, were you still hunting for your 
dream place? 

SY: Yes, as a matter of fact, it was the first time in Ted’s and 
my life together that we had not had any place to Camp. So 
what did we do but buy some property near Parry Sound, 
on an island, and our 3-week holiday was spent cutting 
down trees and making logs, clearing off logs . . . what do 
you call it. . . stripping logs, skinning logs and building a 
log cabin for our own little Camp. 

CC: Now, was that near the site of Hollyburn... 

SY: Well, by golly, it was 2 stone throws away ... it really was, 
it was Parry Sound and you know where we are in Rosseau. 

CC: So you ... 

SY: Do you want me to get into how we moved... 


CC: Sure . . . This must have been really hard at first... for 
Ted to end his long and distinguished career in the 
YMCA.... 

SY: Yes, but... 

CC: And then start at that stage in his life to build a Camp. 

SY: Actually Ted was starting to . . . just heard that the 
Community Colleges were starting up and he decided that 
maybe he would go and see if there was anything he could 
do related to camping with the Colleges. And the funny 
thing was that, right about the same time, somebody told 
him to take a look at this place on Lake Rosseau on his 
way down to Toronto. He had a clipping from the Globe 
and Mail with an advertisement that mentioned this 
property near Rosseau and he thought, well, that’s right on 
the way, so he took this fellow with him, Ted, because it 
was your birthday or something... 

TY: But it was fate too... 

CC: You would be ten years old then... 

SY: He would be 10 or 12. I think you were having your 12th 
birthday. 

TY: The reason I remember very vividly was because it was the 
last year the Maple Leafs won the Stanley Cup and, when 
we got to Hollyburn, which was not Hollyburn but the 
Tilley Estate we ... I was shuffled off upstairs with the 
caretaker to watch the playoffs with the Montreal 
Canadiens. Meanwhile, Dad took a walk around with the 
agent and was only gone one period (which was 20 minutes) 
and he said, “I am phoning home and...” 

SY: He phoned right away, and I will tell you what he said ... 
he said ... I lifted up the phone and he said, “I found it”. 
I said, “What are you talking about? Where are you ...” 
He said, “I have found it. I have found our Camp” . . . 
just like that. Now this was on a Monday, it was actually 
April the 29th which was his birthday but it was on a 
Monday and no maybe it was a weekend I don’t know what 
day it was, but he said, “I won’t be home for 2 or 3 days. 
I am going to see Ken Lemon and I want you to come down 
here on Saturday •. 

TY: I was really happy because I was missing school... 

SY: I went down on a Saturday and he had Sid Reynolds, who 
used to be one of his Section Directors, come up and meet 
him. We all met at Hollyburn and, in less than half an 
hour, I knew this was it. There was no question about it. 
That was in April and we moved from Sault St. Marie at 
the end of August because Ted had to start with Seneca 
College. He got the job there, by the way, and we moved 
lock, stock and barrel with our four children. Judy was 
going into grade 13 and on to University the next year; we 
had the three boys; we sold our house; and there was never 
any question that it wasn’t going to work. Never any 
question because we believed in it. Ted had ail those 
years of experience in it and it was what he wanted to do 
and, surprisingly, it was what I wanted to do. I never 
could have imagined doing anything else. 

CC: However, you had been quite a few years out of the main 
stream of camping... 

SY: Three and a half years... 

CC: Was there any worry about where the campers would 
come from ... 



Hoskoka, Ontario 



SY: Well, we had to make our name known again and this time 
for ourselves not just for the YMCA, so if you would like 
to know how we did it we went down to the Sportsmen’s 
Show which was a two-week business, then, and had our 
booth. We did this for three years and, the first year, we 
met enough people coming by that we knew just from 
camping, who didn’t know we were back in camping. 
And that was how we did it! 

CC: Those people told their friends and away it went. 

SY: And the friends, friends and friends... 

CC: I remember Ted saying he had made the decision that 
Hollyburn should remain a small Camp. 

SY: Well, up to this point Ted had had Pine Crest which was 
85 staff and 210 campers. That was the last year we were 
there and he had felt that he had become just an adminis¬ 
trator. He did know the kids because he had been there 18 
years which was a lot of continuity ... a rarity in the Y. 
I don’t think they have ever had it since. Camie Cameron 
ran Pine Crest for something like 12 years. When we first 
went, we thought we will never ever be there 12 years and 
here we achieved 18. We are almost 20 years at Hollyburn 
... I can’t believe that ... no wonder my hair is gray. 
Anyway,... 

TY: A lot of it goes back to the original camping. He wanted to 
get a lot of that same feeling of intimacy and be able to 
interact with the kids on a very personal basis, so he put 
everything into practice at Hollyburn that he felt to be 
ideal camping. 

SY: Well, a lot of people asked us why we were small and why 
we did this and why we did that. We would always say 
because all the years Ted was in camping he trialed and 
errored everything, and he wanted this to be more or less 
his ideal. But the reason it was a Boys’ and Girls’ Camp as 
against a Boys’ Camp (which he had always been involved 
in) was because of our daughter Judy and me. It was 
going to be a whole family thing and we both wanted to be 
in it with both feet. If it had just been a Boys’ Camp, it 
wouldn’t have been the same and another influence on 
that was the Family Y at Sault St. Marie. Ted was adamant 
about making the distinction between what was a co-ed 
camp and what was a Boys’ and Girls’ Camp. He felt that 
boys want to be boys and girls want to be girls, but the 
family idea, there would be enough mixing naturally in a 
Camp setting without calling it Co-ed. 

CC: Did you operate Hollyburn in the winter time right from 
the beginning? 

SY: I would say that grew like topsy. We knew that eventually 
we wanted to live there and, five years later, we built a 
home there. I suppose, in a sense, to justify living there, we 
wanted to do something with what we had. We would look 
around and see all these acres of land and just us enjoying 
it and we felt that other people should enjoy it. Partly 
from a financial point of view but also from a sociable 
point of view, we started with Hollyburn families and then 
from the Hollyburn families coming up as a group on one 
weekend, it grew just like topsy. It wasn’t originally in¬ 
tended but eventually became a sort of year-round 
operation. 

CC: And at the time, Ted was a teaching master at Seneca 
College... 

SY: For seven years. We built our home here five years later 
and, so that the boys could go to school, I stayed up here 
with them and Ted commuted every weekend. It was a 
double load in a sense ... 

CC: Boy, it sure was ... 

SY: But, for seven years, he did that just to be sure things 
would go ... 


CC: And did you keep the small numbers, were you able to 
maintain that... 

SY: Yes, we started with 55, then we went to 72, then we went 
to 84, then we went to 98 and that is the way it has always 
been. It was something that was a dream come true, it 
really was and it certainly was for Ted. We had always 
said, “Well, I guess we will not ever ...’’ Everybody has a 
dream and not everybody can realize it but it is good to 
have that goal. There we are with goals again . . . always 
reaching up for something. 

CC: Was he involved in the Camping Association in B.C. before 
he moved east? 

SY: No, I don't think so, not that I know of . . . was there a 
Camping Association then ... 

CC: Well, it was started just about the time he was getting into 
things, I have it in my records as 1937, but there are people 
in B.C. who tell me it was 1940 that the B.C. Association 
was officially begun. 

SY: As far as I know, Ted was not involved in the Camping 
Association in B.C. 

CC: But he was President of the Ontario Camping Association 
. . . and President of the Canadian Camping Association. 
Then, he came back for another tour of duty with the 
Ontario Association as Treasurer from 1971 - 1974. 

SY: I think he had something to do with Eanswythe Flynn and 
the editorial part of the Camping Association, did he not? 

CC: Yes, he did... 

SY: I think so because that was maybe his first love . . . 
writing. 

CC: We have just looked over past articles for the CANADIAN 
CAMPING MAGAZINE and he was by far the most 
prolific writer for the CANADIAN CAMPING 
MAGAZINE. Then, of course, when he was President of 
CCA, you had that cross-country trip where it started a 
whole lot of balls bouncing that had repercussions for 
many, many years to come. 

SY: Well, I think that Ted was in a way a pioneer with a lot 
of things, but then perhaps he lived in a time when there 
were pioneers, do you know what I mean... 

CC: And when pioneering was possible ... 

SY: Because now there aren’t so many things you can start in 
camping that are so significant. 

CC: That may be, but I think what makes a pioneer is someone 
who is reaching into new frontiers ... it takes a unique 
individual to be able to do that and Ted was that kind of 
person ... he was reaching out into new areas because he 
had the vision... 

TY: To see what was there and to make something out of it, 
I think that is the difference. 

CC: Certainly in all my years in YMCA camping and beyond, 
he was our dauntless leader and that pioneering spirit was 
probably what made him such a great man. If he was with 
us right now . . . and we were able to interview him . . . 
how do you suppose he would finish it off if I were to ask 
him... 

SY: Well, I think he would probably say he was a very fortunate 
person because few people realize their dreams and 
ambitions. As Ted once said to me, “Very few people do as 
much with their lives as Ted did and to influence so 
many...” 

CC: You mean your son, Ted, said that... 

SY: Yes, when sometimes I would feel that the best... some of 
the best . • • years of his life were . . • missed. But, few 
people realize their ambitions and few people pack so much 
into that short time... 


15 




TY: We often think he didn’t have time to enjoy it, to rest and 
look back on it, but he probably wouldn’t have rested and 
looked back anyway. I don’t think it would be possible for 
him to sit back and sort of watch someone else do it. 

CC: Was it ordained that Ted Jr. would eventually step into 
his father’s shoes ... 

TY: It would never be that anyway, and that is something I 
often have to deal with . . . people saying I look like him 
... I sound like him . . . but I know I am very different. 
What there is, though, is a common understanding now. 
It was never said, but I found, when I first directed Camp, 
I was trying to find explanations for things that people 
were asking me and I was doing it out of instinct. Now, I 
can rationalize things, explain things and understand about 
how we do things at Hollybum, because I have an under¬ 
standing of what T.Y. was all about, even though it was 
never really explained to me. Whether it was preordained 
that I do it, I don’t think so. I believe it was fate, because 
when Darlene and I came back from Vancouver with the 
idea of taking over, it was before we knew Dad was ill and 
it is difficult to say whether I could have done it knowing 
that he was ill. I know we came back because it was some¬ 
thing we wanted to do. 

SY: We have always felt that Ted and Darlene came to Holly- 
burn by choice... because we didn’t know. It was a matter 
of weeks until we discovered Ted was terminally HI. 

TY: It was within a few weeks though and that is very eerie 
because Dad was not the kind of person you could share a 
common position with. While we often saw the same end 
result, it wasn’t always the same route to get there. Dad 


Across Canada, supporters of the 
camping movement are being asked to 
join together in the 50th Anniversary 
Patrons* Fund. Your active participation 
will assure strong and vigorous camping 
from coast to coast. Please utilize the blue 
pledge card attached to this issue of 
CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE. 

In April of 1986, a letter similar to the 
one below was sent to a number of people 
in Canadian Camping. Because we were 
unable to contact our entire readership at 
that time, please look upon this letter as 
our personal invitation to you. 

Le Fond des 
Bienfaiteurs 

A travers le Canada, on demande 
aux supporteurs du mouvement de 
Camping de se’unir pour le 50© 
anniversajre du fond des Bienfaiteurs. 
Votre participation assurera un 
mouvement de Camping sein et 
vigoureaux d*un ocean k I’autre. 

S.V.P. utilisez la carte bleu de dons 
qua vous trouverez dans ce numdro 
de Canadian Camping Magazine. 

En avril 1986, une lettre semblable 
a cede qui suit a &t& envoys k un 
certain nombre de personnes 
associ&es avec le Camping Canadian, 
Ayant 6t& impossible k ce moment 
dfentrer en qqntadt : avfcc toys nos 
lecteurs, yeuiilez conslderer cette 
lettre comma Starit votre invitation 
personnellli 


|oy it, to rest and was such a strong person in that way that it would have 

t have rested and been difficult for him to sit back and watch someone else 

Id be possible for do it, perhaps, not quite the same way he would have • . . 

else do it. even though the goals were the same. 

:ntually step into CC: Was it in your mind, though, when you were 12 years old, 

for instance, and you went down to Rosseau with your 

it is something I Dad • * * 

g I look like him TY: I think so. I even remember, at Pine Crest, knowing every 
m very different. inch of that property and saying, “This is where I am 

lerstanding now. going to be someday”. I remember those things very 

it directed Camp, clearly. I probably was very much a camp brat back then 

lings that people because of that sort of attitude...that this was my place.. 

i instinct. Now, I §Y: what Camp Director’s child wasn’t... 
understand about ¥ItJ p , _ . . . 

I have an under- TY: 1 k,nd of chan S ed m y m,nd midstream when I grew up. It 
en thouoh it was didn’t seem to be realistic anymore ... but things change, 

was preordained 11 ha PP ened and 1 think that maybe Dad knew ... 

was fate, because SY: I would like to say something here. Ted has been ex- 
ncouver with the plaining how he feels about directing Hollybum and 

v Dad was ill and probably how his father influenced him, only he didn’t 

done it knowing know it. He is not walking in his father’s footsteps. He is 

luse it was some- walking beside them, making his own. 

TY: A day doesn’t go by that I don’t think of that motto Dad 
e came to Holly- had, “In the strengths of our forefathers we go . .. not in 

v. It was a matter Iheir footsteps, it is their stars we follow . . . not their 

inallyill. dead campfires”. My earliest memory of campfires is 

that is very eerie hearing that. I think that really says it all. We are not 

rou could share a Mag to copy or imitate; we are just going on the strengths 

aw the same end of what we know ha PP ened in the P 351 * trying to build on 

n oet there Dad it and 8 oitl 8 forward with it. I think that pretty well says 

8 it all for him. 


—-Ac.C.A./A.C.C. 50th Anniversary 

Patrons’ Fund 

“If you have built castles in the air, your work need not be lost; 
that is where they should be. Now, put foundations under them.” 

Henry David Thoreau 

In order to have something that is long lasting and enduring, it is essential to have a 
firm foundation. 

So it is with CCA /ACC. We need a solid foundation to assure its success, growth, 
development and impact. 

The kind of support CCA/ACC is seeking, right now, is financial. An additional 
income of $30,000.00, this year, represents the difference between a giant step forward 
and an irretrievable step backward. 

Can you help to propel us into overdrive? 

Our requirement of $30,000.00 is immediate. Our long-term goal is to establish a 
CCA/ACC Patrons’ Foundation whose proceeds will perpetuate camping in Canada. 
Automatically, by being a part of one, you become an important part of the other. 

You may donate any amount you wish. If we realize “thirty thou” in 1986, it will permit 
us some elbow room to build up our Patrons’ Foundation. 

We are sending this plea to approximately 100 people — some current Camp Directors, 
some retired Camp Directors, some friends of camping. The CCA/ACC’s Federal 
Charitable Number allows for substantial tax relief on all donations. 

If you know people associated with camping who might be interested in participating in 
this project but haven’t been contacted, please pass along their names to us. 

Surely this must be the most productive investment we can make in our lifetime — 
the future of camping. The returns are immediate. They multiply like crazy. There is no 
gamble involved, no speculation. 

In due course, we will send you a pledge card. At this time, our main purpose is to 
stimulate positive thinking about how we can assist in the growth of Canadian 
Camping. 

Most sincerely, 

Janet Adamson, Jack Pearse, 

President, Chairman, 

Canadian Camping Association. CCA/ACC Patrons’ Foundation. 


16 







SOME THOUGHTS FOR THE DAY 


A DIFFERENCE TO BE A DIFFERENCE HAS TO MAKE A 
DIFFERENCE. 

Gertrude Stein 


ALL THE FLOWERS OF TOMORROW ARE IN THE SEEDS 
OF TODAY. 

Plante M. Deep 

THE DESK MOTTO WE LIKE A LOT READS “RIGHT NOW 
IS A GOOD TIME.” 

Don D. Lay 

THE TROUBLE WITH NOT HAVING A GOAL IS THAT 
YOU CAN SPEND YOUR LIFE RUNNING UP AND DOWN 
THE FIELD AND NEVER SCORING. 

Bill Copeland 

IF YOU CAN’T BE BIG, DON’T BELITTLE. 

Hi Thaut 


THE ONLY PERSON WHO EVER GOT EVERYTHING 
DONE BY FRIDAY WAS ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

Ray Bowers 


EVEN A WOODPECKER OWES HIS SUCCESS TO THE 
FACT THAT HE USES HIS HEAD AND KEEPS PECKING 
AWAY UNTIL HE FINISHES THE JOB HE STARTS. 

Coleman Cox 


PASS IT ON 

Do you know a white oak leaf? — pass it on. 

Can you tie a bowline or a reef? — pass it on. 

Launch a rocket, do the “J”, 

If you are lost by night or day, 

And you know what to do —just pass it on. 

Can you lift a packsack? — pass it on. 

What about your super snack? — pass it on. 

If you have a swimming crest 
Or know the water safety test 
Then share the wealth with others — pass it on. 

When you ’re happy every day — pass it on. 

Wear a smile — Say “hokahay” — pass it on. 

Now you know that you belong 

Or if you have a brand new song 

It *s all the same, if you just — pass it on. 

You there with that hand to shake — pass it on. 

Even with the bread you bake — pass it on. 

Boiling up a cookout dog 
Or chopping through a stubborn log 
If you know how to do it — pass it on. 

Your pre-camp preparation — pass it on. 

With heartfelt dedication — pass it on. 

At camp’s the time for us to share 
And show our friends we really care 
So come on everybody — pass it on, pass it on, 
pass it on! 

by Jack Pearse 


A SMILE IS A CURVE THAT SETS THINGS STRAIGHT. 

Pearl E. Whyte 

THE KINDEST WORD IN ALL THE WORLD IS THE 
UNKIND WORD, UNSAID. 

Cille de Lipps 

“IT CAN BE DONE” IS GOOD; BUT “IT’S DONE” IS 
BETTER. 

B.L. Urt 


REMEMBER THE TEA KETTLE. THOUGH UP TO ITS 
NECK IN HOT WATER, IT CONTINUES TO SING. 

P. Coe 


A PAT ON THE BACK, ALTHOUGH ONLY A FEW 
VERTEBRAE REMOVED FROM A KICK IN THE PANTS, 
IS MILES AHEAD IN RESULTS. 

Bennett Cerf 

THE SMALLEST DEED IS BETTER THAN THE 
GRANDEST INTENTION. 

Larry Eisenberg 

ONE THING WE DO KNOW ABOUT THE SPEED OF 
LIGHT, IT GETS THERE TOO EARLY IN THE MORNING. 

Rhyse N. Bell 


TO A FRIEND 

You entered my life in a casual way, 

And saw at a glance what I needed; 

There were others who passed me or met me each day, 

But never a one of them heeded. 

Perhaps you were thinking of other folks more, 

Or chance simply seemed to decree it; 

I know there were many such chances before, 

But the others — well, they didn’t see it. 

You said just the thing that I wished you would say, 

And you made me believe that you meant it; 

I held up my head in the old gallant way, 

And resolved you should never repent it. 

There are times when encouragement means such a lot, 

And a word is enough to convey it; 

There were others who could have, as easy as not — 

But, just the same, they didn’t say it. 

There may have been someone who could have done more 
To help me along, though I doubt it; 

What I needed was cheering, and always before 

They had let me plod onward without it. 

You have helped to refashion the dream of my heart, 

And made me turn eagerly to it; 

There were others who might have (I question that part) — 
But, after all, they didn’t do it! 

by Grace Strieker Dawson 


17 




OUR PAL JOEY 


A True Story Of A Camping Crow 
by TED YARD 

Director YMCA Camp Pine Crest 





This article is reprinted from Canadian 
Camping Magazine, Dec. 1962. 

Notre Ami Joey 

Voici I’histoire vraie d’une corneille 
campeuse; un joli recit d’une amiti6 
que se forme entre un animal de la 
foret, le chien du directeur et une 
multitude de campeurs. 

It’s over a year since Joey first arrived 
at Pine Crest, and started his career as pet 
and entertainer at this YMCA boys* 
summer camp. Since last summer 
however, the great uncertainty about his 
whereabouts and health — if indeed he 
was still alive — had always deterred us 
from telling his story. 

Joey was just a little crow when a 
camper’s parent first brought him to us. 
Unable to fend for himself, he found 
plenty of young friends to pop tasty 
morsels into the gaping beak that seemed 
to hold out a tin cup on many a cabin 
porch rail. Joey thrived on attention and 
good food, and in no time flew capably 
about the Camp on his daily “scrounging 
missions”, making friends wherever he 
went. 

Among Joey’s friends were two who 
figure largely in the story of his stay with 
us. Sid, the Director of the Junior Boys 
Section was one of these. Joey would 
perch on Sid’s hat or on his shoulder and 
even pick bread out of his benefactor’s 


shirt pocket. Occasionally he’d grab one 
of the cigars that were ever present in this 
pocket and carry it off triumphantly to a 
secret hiding place. Sid was very thought¬ 
ful of his new-found friend. A dish of 
water on the porch rail, and a genuine 
love for each living creature helped to 
provide the bond between bird and man. 
If they didn’t speak the same language 
they certainly seemed to understand one 
another remarkably well! Sitting on Sid’s 
hat, Joey “mugged” his way into a CBC 
camping film shown on the Trans- 
Canada television network — Joey 
seemed destined for fame! 

Soon he found another playmate; one 
whom he could pester and tease; one who 
never tired of chasing after him, and one 
who would never be smart enough to 
catch him. This was “Buzzy”, the Camp 
Director’s dog. “Buzzy” has a somewhat 
obscure origin, but he’s called an 
“Eskimo hunting dog” which seems to 
cover most possibilities! Buzz is as white 
as Joey is black, and early in the season 
his main exercise came from countless 
futile sorties after scurrying chipmunks 
and squirrels. Then Joey came along! 

Each morning Joe would be waiting for 
Buzz to come out of the cottage. With a 
crackling squawk he’d flutter to the 
ground dragging a supposedly broken 
wing, and when the pup bounded after 
him, Joe would take off, flying low over 
Buzzy’s head and laughing his most 
taunting laugh! Buzz would take up the 
chase, usually oblivious to where Joe was 
leading him, and on more than one 
occasion the wiley low-flying joker took 
him right off the dock into the lake! 
Several times Joe tried to lead his play¬ 
mate over a high rock ledge, but always 
the pup sensed the danger just in time. 

All-in-all the crow had a hilarious 
time! On the football field he would strut 
around pecking at the soccer ball and 
acting like an international centre 
forward — until Buzz arrived to send him 
“to the showers”. 

When Camp closed last year the crow 
missed the children’s attention and 
decided to concentrate on tormenting 
Buzzy. One evening, just before Labour 
Day, he’d been up to his old tricks. 
Swooping low through a stand of 
hemlocks he laughed hilariously at the 
pup whom he had again so easily out¬ 
witted. But his laugh trailed off into a wild 


cackle as he banged squarely into one of 
the trees and fell to the ground! Buzzy ran 
right over him and was several yards past 
before he could pull up to a stop. By this 
time Joey had struggled up and lumbered 
over to a bridge rail where he sulkily 
surveyed the site of his near demise. That 
dejected picture was our last glimpse of 
him. Was he hurt badly? Did a hawk get 
him? Did he go south? We often 
wondered. 


This season many campers have asked 
about Joey. While we had little hope, we 
really didn’t know what had happened to 
him, so we always said, “probably some 
day he will be back again.” 

At noon on August 16, Sid came into 
the dining hall looking something like a 
bishop who had just won a raffle. A 
rumor rumbled around tables lighting up 
the faces of all who heard it. Then a black 
shadow swooped by the front of the 
building. There on his old ledge was our 
pal Joey! 

During the winter he had acquired a 
new cry strangely like that of a child 
calling “mama”, and now he picked up 
right where he had left off with the 
campers and with the pup. 

To-night as I write this, Joey is crest¬ 
fallen! Three wing feathers on the ground 
bear mute evidence to his latest brash 
escapade. During the supper hour he had 
perched in a tree by the dining hall 
apparently enjoying one of our ten- 
minute Muskoka showers. Then, forgett¬ 
ing that his wings were wet, he dropped 
down to tease the pup again. Buzzy 
caught his tormentor and gathered in 
three black chevrons. Joey, his pride 
sorely wounded, fled to a nearby tree 
scolding profanely. This is a little reminis¬ 
cent of last season’s end. But we hope, 
somehow, that this season the trickster 
will be a better sport, swallow his pride, 
and stay around camp, oh — quite a bit 
longer! 



‘T. Y. and two boys puzzle through a model 
compass together” 


18 





AN EXPERIENCE AT * w 
THE Y.M.C.A. 

UNITED NATIONS SEMINAR 


Les Nations • Unies 

Alors que Ted Yard §tait Secretaire 
du YMCA, il a eu I’occasion de visiter 
les Nations-Unies. It a 6t6 invite k se 
presenter kune salle sp£ciale portant 
I’inscription: “Cette salle est d6diee k 
la Paix et a tous ceux qui travaiilent 
en son nom c'est une piece ou le 
silence est de mise et ou seul les 
pensees ont droit de parole.” 

Cet episode dans cette piece a 
inspire Ted k faire des reflections sur 
le but de sa mession avec le YMCA et 
le Camping, Ses pensees nous 
encouragent tous k faire de m§me 
face k nos responsabilites en tant que 
leaders de lajeunesse. 

Several years ago, I was privileged 
to be among the thirty-one secretaries 
from Canada and the United States, 
attending a Seminar on the United 
Nations at U.N. Headquarters. During 
our Seminar week we had opportunities to 
visit many areas; the General Assembly, 
the Security Council, as well as other 
councils and committees. There were 
briefing sessions, when we learned about 
the workings of the world organization; 
visits to missions from several countries 
when we were able to ask the questions 
which were uppermost in our minds; even 
planned meal-time discussions with 
“U.N. Fellows” from countries around 
the globe. 

Meetings were held at various offices 
and embassies, but the focal point was 
the strikingly designed United Nations on 
the East River. Upon entering the main 
hallway of this building, one has a feeling 
of standing at a great crossroads of 
the world. Across this amazingly quiet, 
75 foot high hall, thousands of persons 
pass each day .... persons of every 
colour and race; persons from a hundred 
countries; persons ranging in age from 
the many classes of visiting school 
children to the elder statesmen of the 
world. Over to the right, off the beaten 
track, and away from the hurly-burly an 
alcove ... a low railing; a carpeted floor; 
a guest bench, and dedication plaque, 
convey the message — “this is a place of 
quiet”. Beside a door which leads to a 
dark passageway and a small room, a 
plaque carries the following inscription: 

4 This is a room devoted to peace and to 
those who are giving themselves for peace . 
It is a room of quiet where only thoughts 
shall speak". 

We were interested in all this, and 
stepped in quietly, groping our way at first 
until our eyes became adjusted to the dim 


light... then we sat for a moment on the 
simple cane benches at one end of the 
small room. One shaft of light from the 
ceiling shining on a large block of iron ore 
in the center of the room, was the only 
source of illumination. 

The meaning of this place is perhaps 
best conveyed in the words of Dag 
Hammarskjold, the late Secretary 
General, as he dedicated the room. 

€t We all have within us a center of 
stillness surrounded by silence. 

This house , dedicated to work and 
debate in the service of peace, should have 
one room dedicated to silence in the 
outward sense and stillness in the inner 
sense. 

It has been the aim to create in this 
small room a place where the doors may 
be open to the infinite lands of thought 
and prayer. 

People of many faiths will meet here, 
and for that reason none of the symbols to 
which we are accustomed in our 
meditation could be used. 

However, there are simple things which 
speak to us all with the same language. 
We have sought for such things and we 
have found them in the shaft of light 
striking the shimmering surface of solid 
rock. 

So, in the middle of the room we see a 
symbol of how, daily, the light of the skies 
gives life to the earth on which we stand, a 
symbol to many of us of how the light of 
the spirit gives light to the matter. 

But the stone in the middle of the room 
has more to tell us. We may see it as an 
altar, empty not because there is no God, 
not because it is dedicated to the God 
whom man worships under many names 
and in many forms. 

The stone in the middle of the room 
reminds us also of the firm and permanent 
in a world of movement and change. The 
block of iron ore has the weight and 
solidity of the everlasting. It is a reminder 
of that comer stone of endurance and 
faith on which all human endeavour must 
be based. 

The material of the stone leads our 
thoughts to the necessity for choice 
between destruction and construction, 
between war and peace. Of iron man has 
forged his swords, of iron he has also 
made his ploughshares. Of iron he has 
constructed tanks, but of iron he has 
likewise built homes for man. The block 
of iron ore is part of the wealth we have 
inherited on this earth of ours. How are 
we to use it? 

The shaft of light strikes the stone in a 


room of utter simplicity. There are no 
other symbols, there is nothing to distract 
our attention or to break in on the stillness 
within ourselves. When our eyes travel 
from these symbols to the front wall, they 
meet a simple pattern opening up the 
room to the harmony, freedom and 
balance of space. 

There is an ancient saying that the sense 
of a vessel is not in its shell but in the void. 
So it is with this room. It is for those who 
come here to fill the void with what they 
find in their center of stillness, ” 

We were sitting only a minute when a 
loud noise shattered the peace of the 
place. A large woman came bustling in, 
then stumbled over one of the benches, 
cursed the whole place as a “deathtrap” 
and shouted for someone to “get me out 
of here.” An efficient guard seemed to 
appear from nowhere and politely helped 
the poor woman out to the lobby. As she 
went she swore that this would be 
reported to the 125,000 women of 
America whom she represented . . . and 
then all was quiet again. 

Somehow it was all so incongrous, and 
yet so completely relative to the problems 
that face this great agent for world peace. 
Ignorance — the ignorance that would 
exclude any sensitivity for the carefully 
prepared entrance to a place of quiet; 
ignorance that must surely be the 
greatest single obstacle to mutual 
understanding. 

Fear — the fear of the dark, leading to 
panic and unrestrained irresponsible 
conduct. Fear, warping the conduct of 
the littlest child and of the greatest 
nation. 

Fear the handmaid of ignorance in a 
world where the need for greater 
knowledge and for trust becomes ever 
more apparent and where neither East 
nor West, white or black, yellow or 
brown can be cast in the role of teacher 
or student. Strangely perhaps, no one 
has a monopoly on the ignorance, the 
fear, the knowledge or the faith. 

We were impressed with the unpar¬ 
allelled opportunities for service open to 
our own association, both at home and 
abroad. Opportunities in our youth 
programs, in physical education, in 
camping, in fact wherever we meet with 
people in purposeful program situations. 

We were indeed moved to hope and 
pray that we and our colleagues will be 
given the strength to pause as individuals 
and as an association for periods of 
mediation and quiet, that we may indeed 
be refreshed, rededicated, and enabled to 
see ever more clearly the Young Men’s 
Christian Association’s great challenge 
. . . “that they all may be one”. May we 
recognize in our Christian heritage the 
stuff to fill many a void in human 
experience and may we constantly seek 
further opportunities to accomplish this. 


19 








THE DUKE OF EDINBURGH’S 
AWARD IN CANADA 

A Challenge To Camp Directors Across Canada 



Through Camp Directors, campers and staff in Canadian 
Camps are encouraged to seriously investigate the possibilities of 
becoming involved in one of the most prestigious achievement 
award programs for young people between the ages of 14 - 25. As 
a result of the regular programs which already exist in most 
Canadian Camps, the opportunity becomes a very obvious one. 

At this time, there are already 40,000 Canadians partici¬ 
pating in the Duke of Edinburgh’s Award program, either as 
members of organized groups such as guiding, scouting, cadets, 
church and schools. But Camps have not yet realized the full 
potential of the advantages of the program. Camps are a 
“natural”, and the prestige of having some of the young people 
from our camps receive the Bronze, Silver or Gold Award is 
something which should be given serious consideration — and 
even begin this summer. 

Participation in the Award Program represents a personal 
commitment to constructive endeavour, promoting qualities of 
self-discipline, self-help and self-reliance ... surely the qualities 
which we in camping so heartily espouse. 

There are three levels — Bronze, Silver and Gold. Within each 
level, there are four categories, the terms of which can be 
achieved over whatever period of time the candidate chooses. 
BUT MANY OF THE CONDITIONS CAN BE STARTED AND 
CONTINUED AT A SUMMER CAMP. Initially, the candidate 
either on his or her own (or through the Camp Director) obtains a 
record book. And then one level at a time can be obtained by each 
participant. 

The National Office address is: 203 - 86 Overlea Blvd. 

Toronto, Ontario 
M4H 1C6 
(416) 429-1200 

There are Regional offices in each Province. 


The Chairman of the Awards Program is The Right 
Honourable Jeanne Sauve, Governor General of Canada, and the 
Patron is of course, His Royal Highness Prince Philip, Duke of 
Edinburgh. 

Every Camp Director across Canada is urged to look seriously 
at this exciting, worthwhile program. And it goes without saying 
that your campers who become involved will always feel proud of 
their accomplishment and achievement — made even more 
significant by knowing that they began the program at Camp. 


AWARD OFFICE LOCATIONS: 


National 

86 Overlea Boulevard, Suite 203 
Toronto, Ontario M4H 1C6 
(416) 429-1200 

Newfoundland 
146- 148 Forest Road 
St. John’s, Newfoundland 
A1A 1E6 
(709) 737-3591 
New Brunswick 
Kings Place, Box 6000 
Fredericton, N.B. E3B 5H1 
(506 ) 453-2812 

Nova Scotia 
P.O. Box 3010 South 
Halifax, N.S. B3J3G6 
(902 ) 425-5450 

Quebec 
P.O. Box 395 
Sillery, Que. G1T2R5 
(416) 688-9804 


Ontario 

385 Connaught Ave. 
Willowdale, Ont. M2R2M1 
(416) 733-0140 

Northern Ontario 
P.O. Box 688 
Thessolon, Ont. P0R 1L0 
(705) 842-3343 

Manitoba 
410 Niagara St. 

Winnipeg, Man. R3N 0V5 
(204) 453-4076 

Alberta and N.W.T. 

P.O. Box 11150 
Edmonton, Alta. T5J 3K4 
(403 ) 425-4173 

B.C. and Yukon 
1644 Hillside Avenue 
Victoria, B.C. V8T 2C5 
(604) 595-2117 


Award Level SERVICE 


EXPEDITIONS AND EXPLORATIONS SKILLS 


PHYSICAL FITNESS 


Bronze Choose one form of service end 

undertake training and/or practical 
Over 14 years. service to others. A minimum of 15 
Qualify in four hours training or practical service 
sections as over a period of 6 months, 

indicated. Examples: 

First Aid. lifesaving, community 
service and many others. 


At the Bronze level, an Expedition is 
mandatory. Undertake basic training, 
carry out a practice journey and then 
complete an Expedition in normal 
country. Minimum of two days out 
required including one night camping; 
15 miles on foot; 50 miles by bike or at 
least 4 hours a day by canoe. 


Follow a Skills programme for a 
minimum of 6 months. Activity may be 
changed once during this period. 
Choice of 200 skills programmes. 
Examples: 

Appreciation of the Arts. 
Communications, Cralls. Graphic Arts, 
Life Skills. Music, Nature, Recreative 
Skills, Transportation Studies. 
Collections and Surveys. 


Qualify in events of own choice in any 
three of the five groups listed below. 
Running, jumping, throwing, swimminc 
physical efficiency. 

OR 

Qualify for the Canada Fitness Award. 
14 year age category. (Bronze level or 
belter) 

OR 

Choose a team or individual sport, and 
participate showing improvement. 


Silver Undertake training and/or practical 

service to others. A minimum of 30 
Over 15 years. hours of training and/cr service over 
Quality in four a period of 6 months for those who 
sections as have earned the Bronze Award; 12 

indicated. months for Silver level Direct 

Entries. 


Undertake basic training, carry out a 
practice journey and then complete 
either an Expedition in normal country 
or a journey of Exploration. For an 
Expedition, the minimum requirement 
is three days out including two nights 
at separate campsites. Minimum 
distances are 30 miles on toot; 100 
miles by bike or at least 5 hours a day 
by canoe. Expeditions by sail, ski and 
on horseback also acceptable. 


Follow a Skills programme for a 
minimum of 6 months for those who 
have completed Bronze or 12 months 
tor Silver Direct Entrants. 

Activity may be changed once during 
this period. 

Choice ol 200 skills programmes. 


Qualify in events of own choice in any 
three of the five groups listed below: 
Running, jumping, throwing, swimming 
physical efficiency. 

Qualify for the Canada Fitness Award. 
15 year age category. (Silver level or 
better) 

OR 

Choose a learn or individual sport, and 
participate showing improvement. 


Gold Undertake training and practical 

A service to others tor a period of 60 

Over 16 years. hours over a period of 12 months for 

Quality in four those who have earned the Silver 

sections as Award; 18 months for Gold level 

indicated Direct Entries. 


Undertake basic training, a practice 
journey and then complete either an 
Expedition in wild or unfamiliar 
country. Four days out. three nights at 
separate campsites; 50 mites on foot or 
150 miles by bike. Canoe, boat, ski, 
horseback expeditions acceptable. OR 
an Exploration with emphasis on 
approved investigations or other 
specified activities, OR an Adventurous 
Project which is equally demanding but 
which departs from specified 


Follow a Skills programme for a 
minimum of 12 months for those who 
have completed Silver or 18 months for 
Gold Direct Entrants. 

Activity may be changed once during 
this period. 

Choice of 200 skills programmes. 


Qualify in events of own choice in any 
three of the six groups listed below; 
Running, jumping, throwing, swimming 
physical efficiency. 

OR 

Quality for the Canada Fitness Award. 
16 year age category. (Gold level or 
better) 

OR 

Choose a team or individual sport, and 
participate showing improvement. 


conditions 


* RESIDENTIAL QUALIFICATION: ‘RESIDENTIAL QUALIFICATION (At Gold Lovel only): 

To undertake some shared activity, either through voluntary service or training away irom 
home over a period of not less than 5 consecutive days (4 nights away). 

Examples: 

Youth leadership training courses. Outward bound and similar courses, voluntary help at 
homes, centres, camps or disadvantaged children, the elderly, and handicapped. General 
training and adventure courses, church sponsored courses lor young people, coaching and 
activity courses 


20 





“OUR FRAGILE WORLD - 
A CHALLENGE FOR THE 
OUTDOOR COMMUNITY” 


SECOND INTERNATIONAL CAMPING CONGRESS 

March 3-5,1987 Shoreham Hotel Washington, D.C. 


*Jointly Sponsored by 
the American Camping Association 
the Canadian Camping Association 
the Jamaica Camping and Hiking Association 
the National Camping Association of Japan 

Purpose 

The Second International Camping Congress is an event to bring together the practitioners of the 
outdoor experience movement from many nations and related organizations to examine the 
elements of our fragile world which challenge the organized camping, environmental, and 
experiential education community to impact participants for future action. 



The Congress is Calling Canadians! 

There are special rates, special air fares, special alternate accommodations and special Canadian events. Canadians are making major 
contributions: You can expect to see Dorothy Walter, Jack Pearse, Fred Okada, Jocelyn Palm and Rob Heming as just part of our 
Congress commitment. Canadians can also bring home valuable camping advice in many interests areas: public relations, personnel, 
leadership, support services, business, finances, marketing, and program. 



Glen Bernard Camp 


21 





UNDER OPEN SKIES 
A ciel ouvert 

Le 15 janvier 1983, un service commemoratif pour Ted 
Yard a eu lieu au Camp Hollyburn a Rosseau, Ont. On y a lu 
le poeme qui suit. 

Un po6me eloqieux k la mesure de I’homme qu’il etait. 

On Jan. 15, 1983, a memorial service for Ted Yard was held at 
Camp Hollyburn, Rosseau, Ontario. This poem was read: 

BRIDGE BUILDER 

An old man, going a lone highway 
Came at the evening, cold and gray 
To a chasm, vast and deep and wide, 

Through which was flowing a sullen tide. 

The old man crossed in the twilight dim, 

The sullen stream had no fears for him. 

But he paused when safe on the other side 
And built a bridge to span the tide. 

“Old man ”, said a fellow pilgrim near, 

”You are wasting strength with building here; 

Your journey will end with the ending day, 

And you never again will pass this way. 

You have crossed this chasm deep and wide, 

Why build you the bridge at the eventide?” 

The builder lifted his old grey head — 

“Good friend, in the path I have come, ” he said, 

“There follows after me today 
A youth whose feet must pass this way. 

This chasm that has been nothing to me 
To that fair-haired youth may a pitfall be; 

He, too, must cross in the twilight dim, 

Good friend, I am building that bridge for him . " 

What a fitting tribute to a great man. 

AN IRISH BLESSING 

from the Gaelic 
May the blessing of LIGHT be on you, 

Light without, and light within. 

May the blessed sunlight shine on you 
And warm your heart, till it glows like a great peat fire 
So that the stranger may come and warm himself at it — 
and also a friend 

May the light shine out of the two eyes of you like candles 
Set in the windows of a house, 

Bidding the wanderer to come in out of the storm. 

And may the blessing of the RAIN be on you — 
the soft sweet rain. 

May it fall upon your spirit so that all the flowers may i 
spring up and shed their sweetness on the air; 

And may the blessing of the great RAINS be on you: 

May they beat upon your spirit and wash it fair and clean, 
And leave a shining pool where the blue of heaven shines * 
in it — and sometimes a star. 

And may the blessings of the EARTH be upon you — 
the great round earth; 

May you ever have a kindly greeting for those who 
pass as you are going along its roads. 

May the earth be soft under you when you lie upon it, 
tired, at the end of the day. 

And may it rest easy over you when at last you lie down 
under it; 

May it rest so lightly over you that your soul may 
be quickly through it 
And up and off on its way to God. 

So might it be. 


A Counsellor's Prayer 

Put me in touch with the heart of the child, 

Let me study his doubts and fears; 

Let me try to show him the way of life 
And help him avoid its tears: 

For the heart of a child in its bouyancy 
Is one that is pure and free. 

So put me in touch with the heart of a child 
Of the Person — that-is-to-be! 

C. Burt is Hunter 

Under Open Skies welcomes contributions from all our readers. 
Please share with us excerpts from your devotional services of the 
summer of 1986, or any summer! Mail your works to: 
CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
R.R. #1, Huntsville, Ontario POA 1K0. 

A ciel ouvert, se fera un plaisir de recevoir vos contri¬ 
butions. 

Partagez avec nous des extraits de vos services de 
pastoral de I’ete 1986 ou autres. 


Envoyez vos extraits k: CANADIAN CAMPING 
MAGAZINE, R.R. 1, Huntsville, Ont. POA 1K0. 



CAMP DIRECTOR & PROGRAMMER 


Required for Camp Warwa Society. Location — Lac Ste. Anne 
near Edmonton. Full Time position. New camp facilities. 40 
miles west of Edmonton. 

Qualifications: Fully trained and experienced person to set up a 
quality program, handle bookings and operate the camp. 
Salary negotiable. 

Resumes with enquiries mailed to: 

Camp Warwa Society, 

11031 - 124 St., 

Edmonton, Alberta T5M 0J5 


22 








BUBBY NASH AWARD 


For Creative Writing 
To Honour Anne Nashman 
of Camp Wahanowin 

CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE and Camp Wahanowin welcome articles of creative writing from campers or staff 
members of Canadian camps. This annual writing contest carries with it $200.00 in prizes and the winning articles will be published 
in future editions of CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE. 


TOPIC: “WHAT CAMPING DOES FOR ME” 

ELIGIBLE WRITERS: Campers and/or staff from Canadian Camps. 

Articles may be written in French or English. 

LENGTH: Not less than 800 or more than 1000 words. 

DEADLINE FOR COMPLETION 
OF ARTICLE: February 15, 1987 

PRIZES: 1st — $100.00 

Runners-Up — Two at $50.00 each 

SEND ARTICLES TO: CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION, 

1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, 

Toronto, Ontario 
M3M 3Z1 


Anne Nashman 

PLEASE ENCOURAGE CAMPERS AND STAFF IN YOUR CAMP TO PARTICIPATE 


PRIX BUBBY NASH 


Pour I’ecriture creative 
en I’honneur d’Anne Nashman 
du Camp Wahanowin 

La revue Canadian Camping et le Camp Wahanowin ont besoin d’articles en ecriture creative de campeurs ou de 
personnel de camps canadiens. 

Ce concours annuel en ecriture creative inclus $200.00 en prix et les textes choisis seront publies dans les editions 
& venir de la revue Canadian Camping. 


SUJET: Ce que le Camping m’apporte. 

OUVERT: & tous les campeurs et personnel de Camps Canadiens 

LONGUEUR: pas moins de 800 mots pas plus de 1000 mots 
DATE LIMITE: 15 fevrier 1987 

PRIX: ier prix: $100.00 

et 2 prix de $50.00 chacun 

ENVOYEZ VOS ARTICLES A: 

CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, 

Toronto, Ontario 
M3M 3Z1 


Anne Nashman 


S.V.P. encourez vos campeurs et votre personnel a participer. 


23 




24 











The Onondaga presented the Seneca with 
a Table. 

We the people of the Onondaga tribe 
offer this table to you the people of the 
Seneca tribe. It is bonded together with 
great strength just as we the people are 
bonded with the great strength of friend¬ 
ship. 

The Cayuga presented the Onondaga with 
a Bear’s Paw. 

The Bear Paw made as a gift to the 
Onondaga tribe is meant to symbolize the 
forging of the elements of the earth: 

The Bear Paw and the leather used as a 
base represent the living or animal part of 
the world. The bark represents the 
necessity of plant life to the existence of 
the living earth. The shells represent the 
sea or the water and its role as an integral 
pan of this earth. The feathers represent 
the Sun and the Sky as well as the Air we 
breathe. The blending of all the elements 
also symbolizes the need for all people to 
live and work together in peace and order 


for the world to survive. If even one 
element is missing the balance becomes 
upset. 

The Tuscarora gave the Oneida a 
Tomahawk. 

We, the people of the Tuscarora, offer 
this Tomahawk to our brothers the 
Oneida, as a token of our friendship and a 
symbol of the lasting peace between the 
tribes. May it bring you good luck in your 
hunting for many moons to come. 

The Oneida presented the Cayuga with a 
Mystic Rock! 

We the Oneida tribe present this Mystic 
Rock as a gift of friendship, love and 
peace to you, the Cayuga. This token 
represents the goodness and forgiveness 
that we each possess, so that we may live 
together as one: with trust, peace, love, 
and friendship throughout the coming 
ages! 

The Mohawks presented the Tuscarora 
with a Worldly Stone. 


We the Mohawks give the people of 
Tuscarora the Worldly Stone as a peace 
offering and a symbol of our tribe. 

Red represents fire — to give you warmth 
White represents clouds — to give you 
rain 

Black — to remind you of evil storms 
Blue — for water to give you great crops 

Please take this offering as a symbol of 
peace and friendship between our tribes. 

COUNCIL CLOSING 

May the Peace of the Forest, 

The Song of the Birds, 

The Inspiration of the Hills, 

The Warmth of the Sun, 

The Strength of the Trees, 

The Fragrance of the Flowers, 

The Joy of the Wind, 

The Calm of the Lake, 

In All of Which is the Creator of Good 
Things be in Your Hearts Tonight and 
Always. 


PROGRAMS AT CAMP 

by Liz Greenway — Central Region Editor 

Who plans the programs at your camp — staff or campers? 
What about the big day — the regatta, the all camp program, the 
special event, the extravaganza, the things campers remember and 
that exhaust staff? Does a small group of campers or staff plan 
your big day, spending hours getting props together, making signs 
or decorations, planning all the details? 

There is another way. This is where the preparation is the 
program. Consider a football game, the Royal Wedding, a 
Cabaret, a Superstars Competition. 

In this instance everyone has a part to play. A football game 
(or a baseball game) — where one group is the half-time show, 
another group the cheerleaders with practical routines, a medical 
crew with tent, stretchers and intravenous, a refreshment crew 
who have made the popcorn and drinks, costumes, and boxes to 
carry refreshments, a security group who have made tickets and 
sold them for a song to escort dignitaries, a facility crew in charge 
of lining the Field, setting up bleachers, scoreboards and physical 
arrangements, a group in charge of opening ceremonies, 
dignitaries and post game presentation, a group of officials and 
oh yes let’s not forget the game itself! The creativity is always 
exciting as each group thinks of more and more things they can do 
to make it an event. 

The campers who do 90% of the physical work itself, always have 
a million ideas and require staff as consultants but are delighted 
with the results they have achieved. 

This type of program is not the answer to every program but we 
should provide the opportunity for everyone to plan, for everyone 
to be the program. 

If you have a program idea or comments on programs why not 
share it with others. Send the information to Liz Greenway 
c/o C.C.A. office. 



“Northern Saskatchewan Twilight.” Camp Christopher N. of Prince 
Albert, Sask. 


j- 


25 





SELLING YOUR CAMP PROGRAM 

by Ian Fowler 

Outdoor Recreation Co-ordinator 
City of Moncton 

The aspect of promotion and public relations is a key ingredient 
to the success of any business and those of us in the camping 
industry are not exempt from selling ourselves if we wish to be 
successful in attracting new campers and maintaining those we 
currently have. 

To me, the difficulty in assessing your camp’s promotion/ 
public relations is where to begin. In talking with fellow Camp 
Directors, it is very apparent the differences in the styles of camp 
promotion/public relations programs are as varied as the 
individual camps. With everything from color glossy brochures, 
to sophisticated pre-camp packages, to photocopied camp flyers, 
the Camp Director assessing a promotion/public relations 
program has endless questions to address. 

In developing such a program for our camp within the City of 
Moncton, I was faced with these questions. 

My first question, however, was not should we have a 
promotion/public relations package, but do we have a quality 
product worthy of promotion? I believe that, if you cannot 
answer this question in a positive manner, then perhaps time 
should be spent on program development rather than public 
relations. 

Far too often, we take the “cart before the horse” philosophy 
having all the bells and whistles for a successful promotion/ 
public relations campaign, only to find our product, in this case 
the camp program, is not at the level it should be, resulting in 
negative promotion from our clients. Certainly, our cheapest and 
most effective public relations tool is “word-of-mouth” 
promotion from our current campers and parents. My first 
suggestion, then, is to build a quality program before launching a 
major promotion/public relations campaign. Utilize “word-of- 
mouth” promotions to your advantage. 

The second aspect in developing your campaign is to select your 
target group. Not one of our camps can be everything to 
everyone, so be selective. Do you concentrate on single family 
campers? Campers from upper income families? Does your camp 
have a specific focal area such as sports? Know your knitting — 
select your target groups at which you wish to address your 
attention. 

Once the first two steps are completed, you are ready to 
develop an “Action Plan” for your camp promotion/public 
relations campaign. In developing this plan consider the 
following: 

— “Rome wasn’t built in a day” — You won’t be able to imple¬ 
ment everything in year one. Spread out your items in a 
realistic plan. 

— Look for high profile /low costs items, in the beginning, 
working your way along to the items with higher price tags. 

— Gauge yourself on spending approximately 3°/o of your total 
operating budget on promotions. 

To get you started with your plan, here are some specific 
suggestions that you may wish to use. 

PROMOTIONS: 

Media — Radio — public service announcements, talk shows, 
paid advertising. 

Television — public service announcements, talk 
shows, paid advertising, community 
T.V. shows. 

Newspaper — feature articles, paid advertising. 


PUBLIC RELATIONS: 

The public relations items listed are designed to let your campers 
and staff know you are thinking about them and keep them 
thinking about camp. These items traditionally cost more; 
however, the investment is well worth it. 

— Christmas letter or card to all campers/staff. 

— Section newsletter periodically throughout the year talking 
about what’s new at camp, general information, etc. 

— Camper reunions. 

— Registration package full of details needed upon registration. 

— Birthday card sent to all campers/staff. 

— Letters to parents from counsellor during or after camp 
session. 

Finally, there are four basic premises that I believe must be 
considered in the development of promotional and public relation 
items. 

1. We are professionals in the camping field . . . make sure all 
materials present a professional image. 

2. Be consistent with use of colour, logo, theme in all pro¬ 
motional material. 

3. Campaign must be ongoing and progressive. 

4. Continue to develop new ideas. 

Promotions and public relations can be an exciting area of 
challenge to all Camp Directors. Although it does require an 
investment of time and dollars, the rewards you will reap from 
developing a positive image will be worth the effort. 

And remember — Professionalism can be obtained at minimal 
cost. 

Special Flyers — Many communities have special supplements 
delivered weekly to homes in the community, 
often times providing free coverage to 
organizations. Specifically items such as — 
Real Estate Guide, Community T.V. Guide, 
Auto-Trader, (etc.) 

Public Speaking—Select groups which meet your target area. 

Suggestions include Home and School 
Associations, Service Clubs, Church Groups, 
Community Organizations, (etc.) 

Displays — Set up staffed camp displays at local trade shows 
or malls. 

Brochure— Your camp brochure is a valuable promotional tool. 

Develop a network list for distribution and keep tabs 
at what areas camper applications are obtained from. 

Open House — An opportunity to show off what you are all 
about. 

Many of the promotional items listed above cost 
nothing more than your time. As well, consult 
local cable T.V. stations, radio stations, and 
A.V. departments from local universities and 
community colleges. Quite often, these 
people are willing to volunteer their time to 
assist in developing promotional aids. 



“Swim instruction at Camp Tawingo, Ont. ” 


26 




Look what we are looking for — for a new look in 
the CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE! 




^ V ">'n, 


\3^ s 


Res 


Please send along the pick of your pix from the camping season. Camp 
Capilano in Vancouver did and they made the cover of this edition as well as 
the top of this page. 


SEND PICTURES OF: 

SITES & FACILITIES 
CONFERENCES & WORKSHOPS 
MOOD & NATURE 
ACTIVITIES & PROGRAM 
CAMPERS & STAFF 


SEND PICTURES TO: 

CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
R.R. # 1 

HUNTSVILLE, ONTARIO 
POA 1K0 


We are ready to use black and white prints and good contrast colour 
prints, slides or negatives. 



Dennis's 

sport 



Dennis's 

snack 



Dennis's 

smile 


Participation 

makes 

PERFECT paRTtopamon ^ 


27 











POSTMASTER / MAIL CARRIER 

If undelivered after five days, please return copies to the editorial offices: 

CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
Canadian Camping Association 
1806 Avenue Rd., Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 

MAITRE DE POSTES/FACTEUR 

Si non• Iivr6 apr6s 5 jours S.V.P. retournez les copies aux bureaux des 6ditoriaux: 
CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
Canadian Camping Association 
1806 Avenue Rd., Suite 2, 

Toronto, Ont. M5M 3Z1 


wai. 


.6 8 : 


Mr. & Mrs. William Babcock 
Kettleby, Ontario 
Canada LOG 1J0 


British Columbia Camping Association 

1200 Hornby St. 

Vancouver, B.C. V6Z 2E2 
Phone: (604) 687-3333 

Alberta Camping Association 

c/o Y.M.C.A., 332 6th Ave. S.W., 

Calgary, Alta. T2P 0R5 
Phone: (403) 269-6156 

Saskatchewan Camping Association 

c/o Saskatoon Y.M.C.A. 

25-22 St. East 
Saskatoon, Sask. S7K 0C7 
Phone: (306) 652-7515 ext. SCA 


Manitoba Camping Association 

Admin. Centre for Recreation and Sport 
1700 Ellice Ave. 

Winnipeg, Man. R3H 0B1 
Phone: (204) 786-5641 

Ontario Camping Association 

1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, 

Toronto, Ont. M5M 3Z1 
Phone: (416) 781-0525 

Association des Camps du Quebec 

4545 Pierre de Coubertin 
Montreal, Quebec 
H1V3R2 
(514) 252-3113 


New Brunswick Camping Association 

P.O. Box 263 

Moncton, New Brunswick E1C 8K9 
506-853-3333 (Ian Fowler) 

Nova Scotia Camping Association 

Box 3243 S. 

Halifax, N.S. B3J 3H5 
Phone: (902) 424-4329 

Newfoundland and Labrador Camping 
Association 

Box 192 

St.John’s, Nfld. A1C5J2 



SUBSCRIPTION INFORMATION 

Canadian Camping Magazine is the official publication of the Canadian Camping Association. 
Editorial offices of the Magazine are located at R.R. HI, Huntsville, Ontario, P0A 1K0. 

Membership in the C.C.A., as a result of membership in a provincial camping association, 
includes a subscription to the Magazine. Non member subscription is S8.00/year. Single issue price 
is $2.00. Make cheques payable to the Canadian Camping Association. Send subscriptions, sub¬ 
missions, or address changes to the editorial offices. 

Canadian Camping Magazine is published four times yearly. Deadlines for submissions are 
October 1, December 1, February 15 and May 1. Material in Canadian Camping Magazine may 
not be reproduced in any form without the expressed written permission of the editor. Copyright 
1986 Canadian Camping Association. 

LES INFORMATIONS DE LA SOUSCRIPTION 

Canadian Camping Magazine est la publication officielle de I’Association des Camps 
du Canada. Les bureaux de la r6daction se trouvent 4 R.R. * 1, Huntsville, Ontario P0A 
1K0. 

L’adh6sion 4 I’A.C.C., le rfesultat de l'adh4sion 4 une association provinciate, com- 
prend une souscription 4 la revue. La souscription pour ceux qui ne sont pas les 
membres coute $8.00 par an. Une livraison coute $2.00. Faites les cheques 4 I'ordre de 
“Canadian Camping Association”. Envoyez les souscriptions, les soumisslons ou les 
changements d’adresse aux bureaux de la rfedaction. 

Canadian Camping Magazine est publi quatre fois par an. Les dates limites pour les 
soumissions sont le l er octobre, le 1 er dfecembre, le 15 6me f&vrier et le l er mai. Les 
mat&raux daus "Canadian Camping Magazine" ne peuvent pas 6tre reproduit sans 
autorisationde l’6diteur. Copyright 1986 Canadian Camping Association. 


If you would like to receive a complete 
English translation of any article in 
Canadian Camping Magazine, send a 
stamped self addressed envelope with 
your request to Canadian Camping 
Magazine, R.R. #1, Huntsville, Ontario 
P0A 1K0. 


Si vous voudriez recevoir une 
traduction complete en frangais d’un 
article dans Canadian Camping 
Magazine, envoyez une enveloppe 
timbree pour la r6ponse avec votre 
demande 4: Canadian Camping 
Magazine, R.R. #1, Huntsville, 
Ontario P0A 1K0. 


CAiViPl NO i 


^jmmsanaam^ 



COVER~ 

The cover photo features campers of Camp 
Capilano (B.C.) encircling “Gramp Capilano”, a 
700 year old live fir tree. Have you hugged a tree, 
lately? 

LA COUVERTURE 

Les photos couvertures montrent des 
campeurs du Camp Capilano en Colombie- 
Britannique encerclant “Gramp Capilano” un 
sapin encore vivant de age de 700 ans. Avez 
vous embrasse un arbre dernierement? 


































