




































IN THIS ISSUE 

Summer is here and so is the reason we do what we do. This 
issue offers you some last minute ideas, some of the latest news 
from our Association's Annual Meeting in May and some clear 
insight into where we are headed. 

Look for program ideas in “Between the Covers”, “Under 
Open Skies”, “What’s ‘In’ Outdoors”, “A Psalm of Praise” and 
“Campwide Program with Meaning” 

The CCA’s Board of Management and President's Council 
met in Quebec City in early May for its Annual Meeting. 

“Coast to Coast” & “Committee Notes” has news on what hap¬ 
pened and is about to happen across the country. New faces bring 
new energy to this hard working group and they all deserve our 
attentive support. Janet Adamson’s “Installation of New Boards” 
delivered at OCA's Annual Meeting is appropriate for new 
Boards stepping into the Association harness. 

Ken Willis comments on and supports the move to PARC by 
CCA and you can also meet CCA's new PARC Director, Aniko 
Varpalotai. 

At the OCA Conference Armand Ball, the Executive Vice Presi¬ 
dent of the American Camping Association, addressed Camping 
Tomorrow. Take some time to consider his points. We must not 
stand too close to our work — we will miss the view. 

Don't forget to check your precamp schedule against what 
those other directors are doing in the final days before the first 
camper arrives. See “What Do You Do Now” on the last page. 

Let’s read this latest issue, and then we'll get to doing what we 
do best. May your treasures be what you find. 

DE CE NUMERO 

Avec l’6t6, nous voila de retour. Vous trouverez dans ce num6ro 
des nouvelles et les points saillants de la demiere reunion de 
I’Association tenue en mai dernier. 

Ne manquez pas “Entre les lignes”, “A ciel ouvert”, “What’s in 
Outdoors”, “A Psalm of Praise” et “Campwide Programme with 
Meaning” pour plus de renseignements. 

Lors de la reunion annuelle du d6but mai, k Quebec (ville), le 
Conseil d’Administration de I’Association des Camps du Canada 
et du Conseil President, nous font part de leurs plus tecentes 
nouvelles dans les chroniques “D’un ocean k I’autre” et “Notes 
des comit6s”. 

Premierement, ces conseils reconnaissent rimportance des 
nouveaux venus au sein des differents comites. Ces nouveaux 
venus apportent une nouvelle vitality et m6ritd apperie 
incontestk 

L’inauguration de nouveaux conseils fut pr6sent6 par Janet 
Adamson lors de I’assembtee annuelle de I’Association 
ontarienne sur le camping (A.O.C.). Cette presentation s’ad- 
dresssait k tous les nouveaux conseils ctesireux d’appartenir & 
I’Association (A.C.C.). 

Ken Willis commente et appui le mouvement “PARC” de 
I’Association. Vous pourrez rencontrer sous-peu sa nouvelle 
directrice Aniko Varpalotai. 

Lors du colloque de I’A.O.C. tenue k la fin de janvier, Armand 
Ball, sous-directeur de l’Ex6cutif de 1’A.O.C. a parle du Camping 
et son avenir”, “Camping Tomorrow”. Prenez le temps de bien 
m£diter ces nots. Souvent k regarder I’horizon il est facile de man- 
quer le couch£ du soleil. 

Directeurs de camp, n’attendez pas k la veille de I’ouverture de 
la saison pour nous informer de votre pte-saison. Lorsque votre 
premier client se montrera le nez k votre porte, il seratrop tard pour 
demander “et que fait-on maintenant”. 

Compl&tez la lecture de ce numSro ensuite nous passerons k ce 
que nous faisons de mieux. 

Nous esp^rons que ce que vous trouverez vous soit 
enrichissant. 


BEHIND 

THIS ISSUE 



DIRIGEANT 

CE NUMERO 

Staff 


Personnel 

Editor-in-Chief 

Jack Pearse 

Editeur en chef 

Senior Editors 

Jane McCutcheon 


Regional Editors 

John Jorgenson 

Brenda McFartane—Eastern 

Editeurs regionaux 

Office Staff 

Liz Greenway — Central 

Mickey Johnstone — Western 

Lisa Pearse 

Personnel du bureau 

Translation 

Wendy Muir 

Carol Sportun 

Yvon Ethier 

Traduction 

Printers 

Cober Printing, Kitchener, Ont. 

Imprimeurs 

Board of Directors 


Conseil D’administration 

Executive Officers 


Les Officiers Executif 

President 

Janet Adamson, Toronto, Ont 

Pr6sidente 

Past President 

Jocelyn Palm, Toronto, Ont. 

Pr6sidente Sodant 

Secretary 

Patti Thom, Toronto, Ont. 

Secretaire 

Treasurer 

Skip Connett, Thornhill, Ont 

Tr6sorier 

Vice-Pres. (Eastern) 

lan Fowler, Moncton, N.B. 

Vice-president 

Vice Pres. (Western) 

Jan James, Ardrossan, Alta. 

Vice-presidente 

Vice-Pres. (Quebec) 

Gerard Bachand, Rawdon, Que. 

Vice-president 

Vice-Pres. (Ontario) 

Sally Moore, Toronto, Ont. 

Vice-presidente 

President Emeritus 

F.M. Van Wagner, Point Claire. 

President 6merite 

Que. 

Provincial Representatives 

Reprgsentants Provinciaux 

Newfoundland 

Judy May 

La Terre Neuve 

Nova Scotia 

Kelley Byrne 

La Nouvelle Ecosse 

New Brunswick 

Dan Soocy 

La Nouveau Brunswick 

Quebec 

Colette Pouliot-Marier 

Le Quebec 

Ontario 

Jane McCutcheon 

L’Ontario 

Manitoba 

Calvin Desmarais 

Le Manitoba 

Saskatchewan 

Penny Winged 

Le Saskatchewan 

Alberta 

Bob Sperling 

L’Albeda 

British Columbia 

Jean Bowering 

La Colombie Britannique 

CCA Committees 


Comit6s ACC 

Archives 

Bruno Morawetz, Peterborough, 

Les Archives 

Professional 

Ont 

Le D6veloppement 

Development 

Dorothy Walter, Toronto, Ont 

Professional 

National Conferences 


Les Ateliers et les 

and Workshops 

Glenn Bamed, Victoria, BC/CB 

Conferences Nationales 

French Language 

Colette Pouliot-Marier, 

Le Franpais 

Fund Raising 

Quebec City, Quebec 

Jack Pearse, Waterloo. Ont. 

Accumulation des Foods 

Environment 

Jean Funk, Sherwood Pk., Atta. 

Le milieu 

PARC Liaison 

Diane Biair, Toronto, Ont 


Publications 

Nancy Barker, Seebe, Alta. 

Publications 

Public Relations 

Alayne Scanlon, Toronto, Ont. 


Magazine 

Camp Tawingo, Huntsville, Ont. 

Revue 

National Conference 

Fred Okada, Toronto. Ont. 


Seminar Task Force 

Dorothy Walter, Toronto, Ont. 


Immigration 

Barry Lowes, Toronto, Ont. 

L’immigration 

National Office 

Bureau 

National 

Canadian Camping Association Association des Camps du Canada 

1806 Avenue Road, Ste. 2 1806 Avenue Road, Ste. 2 

Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 Toronto, 

Ontario M5M 3Z1 

(416) 781-4717 

(416) 781-4717 

Administrative 

Secretary 

Irene Knapp 

Secretaire administrative 


Association des Camps du Canada 



Canadian Camping Association 

National Office/Siege Sociale 

1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, 

Toronto, Ont. M5M 3Z1 
Phone: (416) 781-4717 


2 






PRESIDENT’S 

MESSAGE L ' 

It is summer and camps across Canada are 
in full swing. This summer over 400,000 
children and youth will be attending Canadian j 

Camping Association camps. I know their stay 
at camp will be of higher quality because of all 
the hours of work camping volunteers have put 
into conferences and workshops across 
Canada this Winter and Spring. In British 
Columbia in late March, Michael Brandwein shared his 
L.A.S.E.R. Beam with our sixty camp directors at an excellent 
conference in Parksville. In Saskatchewan in early April 
delegates learned about “Learning in the out-of-doors” from Dr. 
Jan James, the Western CCA/ACC Vice President and Campfire 
Programs from Skip Connett, the CCA/ACC Treasurer. 


In Alberta in February the directors conference participants 
examined the new Camp Directors' Curriculum and made plans 
for future workshops based on its content. These are the con¬ 
ferences that I was fortunate enough to attend on behalf of CCA/ 
ACC this Winter and Spring. Through all this sharing, I know 
that camping in Canada is stronger and the experiences of cam¬ 
pers at camp this summer are richer. 

In 1989 there will be a CCA/ACC National Conference. A 
National Conference provides the ultimate opportunity to share 
camping knowledge and inspiration and I hope that you will 
make plans to attend. 

Meanwhile, may your summer be safe, happy and full of 
good camping. 


Janet Adamson 
President 


UN MOT 
DE LA PRESIDENTE 


C’est Ifefe et partout k travers le Canada les 
camps bourdonnent d’activife. Cet 6fe, plus de 
400,000 jeunes participeront aux camps de 
I’Association. Je suis convaincu que ces jeunes en 
ressortiront enrichis gr§ce aux efforts et k la 

J patience de nos nombreux volontaires. Ceux-ci 
ont assists, afin d’etre mieux pfep&res, k de nom¬ 
breux ateliers et conferences sur le camping 
tenue un peu partout k travers le pays pendant I’hiver. En mars, 
Michael Brandwein de la Colombie-Britannique a partag6 avec 
nous, ainsi qu’avec soixant-dix autres directeurs, son experience 
avec les “Rayons Laser”, “Laser Beam”. Cette conference, c’est 
tenue k Parksville. 

En Saskatchewan, au debut d’avril, nos defeques ont eu le 
privilege d’entendre parler le Dr. Jan James, president-adjoint 
de 1’A.C.C. pour la region de I’ouest. Sa presentation avait pour 
sujet “L’apprentis-sage en plein air”, “Learning in the out-of- 
doors”. Ils y ont aussi entendus Skip Connett, tresorier de 
I’AC.C. qui a presente Campfire Programs. 

En fevrier, les directeurs se sont penclfes sur le nouveau Plan 
dfetude et de gestion de camps — Camp Directors 
Curriculum. Ils ont aussi prepare Ifebauche d’une serie d’ateliers 
k ce sujet. 

Voila, en quelques mots, le resume des conference auxquelles 
j’ai assisfe k titre de pfesidente. J’en suis revenue enrichie et pleine 
d’espoir. Encore une fois, je suis convaineue les compeurs de cet 
efe reviendront de leurs vacances enrichis de leur experience et 
de leur sejour passe aux camps de (’Association. 

Notez qu’en 1989, aura lieu un colloque national de I’A.C.C./ 
C.C.A. Un tel colloque donne I’occasion de partager ses con- 
naissances, ses experiences et ses feves relatifs au camping. 
J’espere que vous vous ferez une joie d’y assister. 

II ‘ici I k, je vous souhaite un ete plein de soleil, de joie et de 
plein air. 


CONTENTS 


PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE 3 

—Janet Adamson 

CAMPING FROM COAST TO COAST 4 

COMMITTEE NOTES 9 

WHITHER C.C.A/S PHYSICAL ACTIVITY 

EMPHASIS 10 

— Dr. Ken Willis 

THOUGHTS ON THE INSTALLATION 

OF NEW BOARDS 11 

— Janet Adamson 

OUR NEW PARC DIRECTOR 

ANIKO VARPALOTAI 11 

BETWEEN THE COVERS 13 

— Nancy Barker 

CAMPING TOMORROW - 

WHAT DOES TODAY TELL 15 

— Armand Ball 


YM/YWCA CAMP STEPHENS 21 

— Grant Platts. Scott McGregor and Juliane Schaible 

CAMPWIDE PROGRAMS WITH MEANING 22 

— Dorothy Walter 

A PSALM OF PRAISE 25 

— Wendell White 

UNDER OPEN SKIES 25 

— Eanswythe Flynn 

FINAL SALUTE TO DR. MARY NORTHWAY 27 

— Jocelyn Palm 

WHAT’S IN A NAME? 27 

WHAT’S “IN” OUTDOORS 28 

— Russel E. Bachert Jr. 

& Emerson L. Snoots 

RESTORATIVE ECOLOGY 29 

— Jim Hopkins 

WHAT DO YOU DO NOW? 30 


3 








success. 


CAMPING: 


From Coast To Coast 
D’uii Ocean A L’Autre 


ONTARIO 

r ^ ^ i by SALLY M. MOORE 

A 1 | Ontario Vice President 

M P _ The Ontario Region is pleased to announce 
the appointment of Alayne Scanlon as the 
— —chairperson of the national Public Relations 
Committee, based in Toronto. Alayne comes to CCA/ACC with a 
strong public relations and promotion background. She has 
experience with three other national organizations, YWCA 
CNIB, and the United Church of Canada, and has served on the 
board of directors of other nonprofit organizations. I wish to 
welcome Alayne and wish her and the committee much 


NOVA SCOTIA 

by KELLEY BYRNE 

*3 ET\ President CANS. 

Well, I’m really proud to say that much has 
L v J u ■IT-"' happened in the last two months in N.S. Our 

annual meeting was the 25 of April, in 
Truro, with a turn out of 19 people. This was great with our guest 
speaker, Mike Byrne, President of National YMCA Canada. I 
was very pleased to be able to attend the President’s Council 
meeting in Quebec City, where the hospitality and good times 
were endless. On May 9-10 we were off to Camp Hillis in 
Paradise, N.S. for one terrific weekend. “Ready, Set, Go” Spring 
Conference. There were in attendance 32 participants and 6 spe¬ 
cial guests, including Fred Okada, Anthea Bellemore, Dave 
Comeau, and Tandy Leather. The curriculum for Camp Directors 
has had a very good introduction in N.S. So now we’re ready for 
Summer 4 87. All of us in N.S. really wish you across Canada the 
best this summer. 


ONTARIO 

r - T - par SALLY MOORE 

All sous-directrice-ontarienne 

^ f I Nous sommes heureux d’annoncer la nom- 
mination de Alayne Scalon, en tant que pre- 
sidente nationale du Comity des relations 
publiques pour la region ontarienne. Ce comitee stege a Toronto. 
Alayne nous arrive avec beaucoup de connaissance et d’ex- 
p6rience. Elle a particip6 a plusieurs comites et a steg6 sur 
plusieurs conseils et organismes nationaux tel, le Y.M.C.A., 
I’Eglise Unie du Canada et sur le “CNIB”. 

Nous lui souhartons la plus cordiale bienvenue et beaucoup 
de succ£s. 


/n\ NOVA-ECOSSE 

par KELLY BYRNE 

fCJ }n yV ry> Depuis deux mois, plusieurs choses 
Jy J se sont pass6es en Nouvelle-Ecosse. 

Soulignions d’abord notre assembltee 
annuelle qui s’est tenue a Truro, le 25 avril dernier. Notre 
contefencte invite M. Mike Byrne, president national du 
Y.M.C.A. s’est adress6 k plus de 19 personnes. 

J’ai aussi eu I’occasion d’assister k la reunion du Conseil du 
president, k Quebec (ville) L’hospitalite qu6b§coise toujours aussi 
g6n6reuse nous a permit de bien nous amuser. 

La fin de semaine du 9 et 10 mai, nous a permit d’assister a la 
conference du printemps “Pret, position, partez” — “Ready, 
set, go” qui s’est tenue au Camp Hills, k Paradise, en Nouvelle- 
Ecosse. A cette conference, M. Fred Okada, Anthea Bellemore, 
Dave Comeau, et Tandy Leather quelques uns des conteren- 
ciers, ont introduit k plus de 35 participants le programme pour les 
directeurs de camp. Nous sommes maintenant prets k affronter la 
nouvelle saison estivale de 1987. 

Nous tous ici, en Nouvelle-Ecosse, nous souhaitons au reste du 
Canada, le meilleur des 6tes. 






ATLANTIC REGION REPORT 

by IAN FOWLER 

ATLANTIC REGION VICE-PRESIDENT 

Spring sprang quickly in Atlantic Canada, following a long 
winter; thus many camps are now in high gear with regard to 
spring maintenance and work parties. 

All Atlantic associations are presently planning for spring 
conferences, ensuring senior staff and counsellors are well pre¬ 
pared for the summer months. 

The Newfoundland/Labrador Camping Association recently 
elected Judy May of Corner Brook as their new President and she 
has assembled a new executive in the Corner Brook area. Best 
wishes are extended to Judy and her new troops. As well, a tip of 
the hat to outgoing President Frank O’Connor and his team from 
the St. John’s area. 

The New Brunswick Camping Association continues its battle 
against minimum wage legislation. Although exemption from 
the legislation was refused by the Employment Standards 
Tribunal, Hon. Joe Mombourquette has intervened and the 
association continues to lobby on behalf of its members. 

The upswing Camping Association of Nova Scotia recently 
held their annual meeting re-electing Kelley Byrne as President. 
This dynamic organization has made giant steps in the last year 
and currently have 50 plus delegates registered for their spring 
Conference featuring Ontario's Fred Okada as guest speaker. 
Way to go C.A.N.S.! 

One can easily see there is lots happening in the Atlantic 
Region, as we continue our attempt to become the most active 
C.C.A. region. 




* 



It was lap-sitting room only at a games session conducted in Saskatchewan 
by Jan James , Western Region Vice-President. 


Skip Connett, Treasurer of CCA/ACC entertains some Saskatchewan camp 
leaders around a 'camp fire'. 


RAPPORT DE LA REGION ATLANTIQUE 

par Ian Fowler, president-adjoint 

lei dans les provinces atlantiques I’hiver a efe dur et long. Le 
temps du grand manage printanierest revenu et plusieurs equipes 
sont dej k k la feche. 

Toutes les associations de la region sont de# pfetes k assister 
aux conference du printemps. Elies s’assurent ainsi que les mem- 
bres de leur associations et leur personnel seront bien prepares 
pour la saison estivale. 

L’association des campeurs de Terre-Neuve — Labrador a 
recemment eiu leur nouvelle pfesidente. Judy May, de Corner 
Brook a vite fait de s’entourer d’un bon conseil administratif. Nos 
voeux de succ6s accompagnent Judy et son equipe. 

Nous voulons aussi dire “Chapeau” k Frank O’Connor, presi¬ 
dent sortant et son equipe de la region de St-John. 

Au Nouveau-Brunswick, I’association continue sa bataille con- 
tre la legislation provinciale a propos de sa politique sur le salaire 
minimum. L’Hon Joe Mombourquette et I’Association sont vite 
intervenus. Leur demande pour une exemption de la legislation 
pour ses membres a efe refusee par le “Employment Standard 
Tribunal”. La bataille continue. 

L’Association de Terre-Neuve a reeiue sa presidente, Kelley 
Byrne. 

Cette association a fait des progfes k pas de geant. Plus de 50 par¬ 
ticipants se sont de# inscrits k la conference du printemps. Le 
conferencier invite sera Fred Okada de I’Ontario. 

C’est ainsi qu’il n’est pas surprenant de dire que la vie en plein 
air bouillonne et bouillonnera d’activites. 


5 











CCA ANNUAL MEETING — QUEBEC CITY — MAY 1-3, 1987 

REUNION ANNUELLE DE L’A.C C./C.C.A. — DU 1 AU 3 MAI A QUEBEC 


. £2itig 


77 ^ view from the top of the Concord Building —from front to back — the Jean Funk, Chair of Environmental Concerns Committee, reads over the 

Parliament Buildings, the Citadel, the Chateau Frontenac, St. Lawrence River shoulder of Jan James, Western Region Vice President as Patti Thom, Secretary, 

and Be d‘Orleans. looks on. 




Sue Vail, our Active Plan consultant, discusses Friday’s agenda. (L-R) Gerard 
Bachand, Quebec Region Vice President, Dave Sands, International Camping 
Congress Liaison, Bob Sperling, President of Alberta Camping Association and 
Janet Adamson, President. _ 


Pere Paul Belanger greets members ofthe President’s Council at Camp Oasis 
before the Annual Meeting. (L-R) Jocelyn Palm, Past President. Pere Belanger, 
former Vice President, Jack Pearse, Past President and Jane McCutcheon, Presi¬ 
dent of O.CA. 


A group photo of thefull President’s Council andfriends at Camp Oasis just 
before the Annual Meeting. 


(L-R) Janet Adamson, President. Sally Moore, Ontario Region Vice Presi 
dent. Jocelyn Palm, Past President chat with Sue Cousineau of Fitness Canada 
over lunch. 









QUEBEC’S CAMP ASSOCIATION 

Y by COLETTE POULIOT-MARIER 

Y a Y This spring two major events marked the 

ATKA Q.C.A. spring calendar. 

-ft—ft —One event was a part of the regular calendar. 

The second one was rather exceptional. Base 
de plein air La Vigie (Lake St-Joseph, Portneuf County) was the 
site of the annual convention held on April 2nd to 5th. More than 
125 persons in charge of camps: directors, counsellors and mon¬ 
itors met to discuss the future of summer camps. The theme was 
“Demain ... c’est maintenant”, “Tomorrow is now”. 

On May 1st and 2nd, Quebec City hosted the C.C.A. Board of 
Management and President’s Council Annual Meeting. 

The Q.CA. members, particularly those from Quebec City 
were delighted to host this event. For their guests, they prepared 
some sightseeing tours. One tour was a visit to the headquarters’ 
office at Camp Keno (Marist Religious order on St. Louis Road) 
and another at Camp Oasis Notre Dame (Simon Lake, Portneuf 
County). The tours were, for both parties, a great source of 
pleasure. 

The Q.C.A. is very pleased to report an increase in its members’ 
participation which is highly noticeable because of these past 
two events. 


L’ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU QUEBEC 

Y by COLLETTE POULIOT-MARIER 

\/o\/ En ce printemps 1987, deux 6vdnements ont 
marque les activity des I’ACQ. L’un fait partie du 
/ C Y Q \ calendrierregulier; I’autres’inscritei’agendades 
' ' 6v6nements plutdt exceptionnels. 

Du 2 au 5 avril a eu lieu £ la Base de plein air La Vigie (au lac 
Saint-Joseph, comte de Portneuf) le colloque annuel. Plus de cent 
vingt-cinq responsables de camp, directeurs, cadres et mon- 
iteurs, se sont reunis & cette occasion pour s’interroger sur I’avenir 
des camps de vacances. C’est notamment autour du theme 
«Demain... c’est maintenant» que les aspects sp^cifiques de la vie 
de camp furent abordes. 

Les 1 er et 2 mai c’est tenue & Quebec (ville de Quebec) la 
reunion annuelle du Conseil des presidents de I’Association des 
camps du Canada. Les membres de I’ACQ, tout sp£cialement 
ceux de la region de Quebec, se sont faits pour la circonstance les 
Rotes de leurs coliegues de camp des autres provinces. Les visites 
au siege social du Camp Keno (chez les Peres Maristes, chemin 
Saint-Louis) et au Camp Oasis Notre-Dame (au lac Simon, comte 
de Portneuf) furent des rencontres fort appreciees par les mem¬ 
bres de I’CCA/ACC. II faut dire que ce fut un tres grand plaisir pour 
nous de les recevoir. 

A I’Association des camps du Quebec, la participation des 
membres, qui ne cesse de croTtre dans les Commissions et Com¬ 
ites, s’est manifestee concretement e travers ces deux 
evenements inscrits k notre calendrier du printemps. 



The Canadian Camping Association display at the National Conference of 
Boys and Girls Clubs held in Ottawa at the Westin Hotel, April 9-11, 1987. 


The promotional material was supplied by the O.CA. Office via Sally Moore. 
The display was set up and manned by Brian EdeyfCamp Opemikon) and Barb 
Gage (Camp Minwassin). _ 





Michael Brandwein. guest speaker at a meeting ofthe B.C. Camping Associa¬ 
tion, is flanked by Brian and Janet Adamson. Jack Way, at the podium shares a 
word with Pat Russell, an Honourary Member of the B.C.C.A. Jack is the past 
president of the Association. 


f l by BOB SPERLING 

W A.CA. President 

The 22°C weather in Washington, D.C. was 
replaced by the sub-zero temperatures of 
Edmonton upon our return from the 2nd International Camping 
Congress. The temperature however, failed to chill the 
enthusiasm with which the Alberta delegates returned home, 
ready to share their new knowledge in preparation for the rapidly 
oncoming summer. 

And opportunities to do just that abound! Well be meeting lots 
of people at our Senior Staff Workshop and Counsellor Con¬ 
ferences. Once again the Senior Staff will be at Pioneer Ranch 
with our keynote speakers being Dwayne Congdon of the “Everest 
Light'’ Expedition, and Larry Buell, author of The 24-Hour 
Experience and Outdoor Leadership Competency. Perhaps the 
most significant part of the weekend is the simultaneous 
occurence of our first training session under the Curriculum for 
Camp Directors. The YoWoChAs Centre west of Edmonton, and 
Camp Gardner west of Calgary, are the two sites of our Coun¬ 
sellor Conferences. A very full day is planned at both locations 
and participants will return brimming with enthusiasm. Major 
changes in our standards format will be happening over the sum¬ 
mer and resultant streamlining to the document along with any 
revisions necessary. 

Exciting as all this is, the best news is that very soon now a new 
summer’s batch of Campers start coming over the hill, and with 
them, a great Summer. 


ALBERTA 


ALBERTA 

W par B. Sperling, president deA.CA. 

Line delegation de I’Alberta s’est rendue au 
deuxfeme Congfes international de camping 
qui s’est tenu k Washington D.C. sous une temperature estivale de 
22°C. De retour, elle a efe accueillie par un froid glacial. Ce froid 
n’a cependant pas pu refroidir I’enthousiasme de la delegation qui 
s’est vite mise au travail afin de se preparer pour la saison d’ete 
qui s’annonce. 


L’Association a un besoin pressant de personnes pour son 
Atelier pour le personnel senior-alne et conferences pour 
moniteurs “Senior Staff Workshop”. 

L’atelier se tiendra au Pronner Ranch. Les conferences invites 
seront Dwayne Congdon de I’expedition “Everest Light” et Larry 
Buell auteur de The 24-hour Experience and Outdoor 
Leadership Competency. Le point saillant de cette fin de 
semaine sera sans doute notre premiere session entrainement 
sous liquide du programme pour les directeurs de camps s’y tein- 
dra simulatanement 

Les deux lieux choisis pour la conference des Conseillers sont; 
le centre Yowochas, k I’ouest d’Edmonton et le Camp Gardener, k 
I’ouest de Calgary. Une journSe bien remplie vous y attend 
tous. 

Plusieurs changements au format sont pfevus tout au court de 
I’ete. Bien que tout ceci semble tres excitant, la meilleure des 
nouvelles est que bientdt Ifefe arrivera amenant avec lui des cen- 
taines de campeurs. 


ONTARIO 

\ TT1 by JANE McCUTCHEON 

All O.CA. President 

^ f | The Ontario Camping Association has 

welcomed a new Board of Directors for the term 
1987-1989. At our Annual Meeting in April we 
also welcomed three new Honourary Life Members of the O.CA. 
— Dorothy Walter, Anne Prewitt-Eaton and Bruno Morawetz. 
Congratulations! 

Our spring preparations for summer camp included the 
annual Counsellor Conference, our Workshop for Camp Nurses 
and our Skills Weekend — a combined effort of a canoe school, a 
woodsmanship school and an eco-skills workshop. 

The O.C.A. is undergoing an in-depth organizational review — 
a Task Force Committee headed by Larry Bell has been hard at 
work since February, and we are all keen to see the recommen¬ 
dations and implementation of methods that will help us deter¬ 
mine our future direction. 

As you read this, there are thousands of children in Ontario 
preparing bedrolls and trunks in anticipation of their summer 
camp experience. The O.CA. wishes all camps in Canada a safe, 
happy and rewarding summer. 


___ ONTARIO 

A I | par Jane McCutcheon 

ill L’A.O.C. a accueillfe un nouveau conseil 

1 1* JI d’administratif pour la periode 1987-1989. A 

cette m§me assembiee annuelle tenue en avril, 
(’association ontarienne a aussi accueilli 3 nouveaux membres a 
titre de membres d’honneur nomrrfes a vie. Ils sont Dorothy 
Walter, Anne Prewitt-Eaton et Bruno Morawetz. Bravo! 

Nos pfeparatifs en vue de Ifefe comprennent la Conference 
annuelle pour les moniteurs. Notre “Workshop for Camp 
Nurses and our Skills Weekend un effort combing pour une 
§cole de canotage, de woodsmanship et un atelier sur l’“Eco- 
Skills Workshop”. 

L’A.O.C. est entrain de fait une reorganisation profonde. Un 
comite dfetude — “task force committee” sous la direction de 
Larry Bell travaille depuis fevrier a la preparation de recommen¬ 
dations et vise k 1‘implantation de rrfethodes succeptible de nous 
permettre une meilleure direction dans le futur. 

Dej4, en ce moment, des molliers d’enfants dans province sont k 
preparer leur attirail de camping, pret k vivre une experience 
estivale. L’A.O.C. desire souhaiter k tous les camps du Canada, un 
ete rempli de joie, de plaisir et de soleil. Soyez prudent! 


8 





Committee Notes / Les Notes Des Comites 


PUBLIC RELATIONS COMMITTEE 

by ALAYNE SCANLON 

“I am pleased to have been invited to serve as chairperson on 
the CCA/ACC Public Relations Committee. At present, our com¬ 
mittee consists of a small core group of people. On an ad hoc 
basis, we will add persons of a particular expertise to assist in 
fulfilling our mandate of enhancing the image of camping 
across Canada. 


CHANGES!! 

Changes have taken place in the CCA/ACC Board of Manage¬ 
ment and Committee Structure. We welcome Gerard Bachand as 
Vice-President for Quebec. To retiring Quebec VP, Ken Willis, we 
offer a thank you for a job very well done over the past six years. 
The CCA/ACC Certificate of Honour that Ken received is indeed 
very well deserved. 

New committee chairpersons are Colette Pouliot-Marier for 
French Language, Alayne Scanlon for Public Relations, and 
Diane Blair for the PARC Advisory Committee. Fred Okada will 
be heading the National Conference Task Force and Dorothy 
Walter the Seminar Task Force. WELCOME! 


4 


Glenn Barned , Chair of National Conferences and Workshop Committee, 
takes his turn at the flip chart. O.CA. Past-President, Fred Okada , assists in 
the background. 


Gerard Bachand, theformer Chair of the French Language Committee and 
the new’ Vice President for Quebec makes his report while Jean Funk, Chair of 
the Environmental Concerns Committee takes notes. 

Comitees des relations publiques 

par ALAYNE SCANLON 

Je suis heureux d’avoir £te invites k servir comme ptesidente 
des comite des relations publiques de rA.C.C./C.C.A. Prdsente 
ment, le comite ne consiste que d’un petit groupe de personnes. 
Nous comptons pouvoir augmenter ce nombre de personnes, 
ainsi avec leurs connaissances, nous pourrons enfin arriver k rem- 
plir notre mandat qui nous a 6te donn£; ceci k fin de rehausser 
I’image du camping au Canada. 


Changements 

Voici les changements qui ont eu lieu dans le Conseil adminis- 
tratif et du comite des structures au sein de PA.C.C./C.C.A. 

Nous accueillons. G6rard Bachand, president adjoint du 
Quebec. 

Nous remercions. Ken Willis pour son travail pendant les six 
demteres ann£es en tant que ptesident-ajoint du Quebec. II a bien 
nrterite son certificat d’honneur de I’A.C.C./C.C.A. 

Colette Pouliot-Marier, ptesidente du nouveau comitee de la 
langue francaise. 

Alayne Scanlon aux relations publiques et Diane Blair aux 
Comite consultant de “PARC”. 

Fred Okada a la t§te du groupement des Conferences 
nationales et Dorothy Walter au s^minaires (Task force). 


9 



WHITHER CCA’S PHYSICAL ACTIVITY 

EMPHASIS? 


by Ken Willis, Former Vice President, Quebec Region 


“Cranes soar higher than Amerika does." In this way Chris¬ 
topher Young, in a recent article in the Montreal Gazette, uttered 
the same thought as Brian Kahn, creator of the T.V. movie, A 
Thousand Cranes, when he said: “Only through cooperation will 
life on Earth survive.” The movie A Thousand Cranes, shows 
cooperation between Russian and American ecologists to save 
rare cranes. Amerika, of course, is the T.V. serial imagining life in 
America ten years after the Russians have taken over. But in his 
film about the cranes, Kahn is saying that competition between 
societies kills; cooperation saves. 

Dr. Mark Pitman, Chief of Sports Medicine, Hospital for Joint 
Diseases in New York City, asserted in a letter to Time's editor, 
that ‘The purpose of sports, especially in the case of children, 
should be to make healthy people happier. The concept of team 
sports has failed to accomplish this. Rather than learning to 
interact and cooperate with others, youngsters are taught to com¬ 
pete. Team sports have only reinforced the notion that the team 
on top is the winner and that all others are losers.” Dr. Pitman 
goes on to say: ‘This approach does not make sports appealing to 
many children.” 

The Canadian Camping Association is adding to its program 
a new emphasis — to increase the awareness in camps of the 
need for physical activity. Along which road are camping people 
going to move as they increase this awareness? Are they going to 
slip into the disastrous, competitive maelstrom experienced in 
school and community team programs where mothers and 
fathers among the spectators have been known to scream, “Kill 
him!” to their eight year old son on the atom league hockey 
team? 

Our society is drowning in the antagonistic feelings nurtured 
partially by professional and amateur team sports and, to a 
smaller degree, by the very academic program of many school 
classrooms. 

Camping people must fight against this current as they 
emphasize greater awareness of physical activity in camp pro¬ 
gramming. Indeed, among senior campers it could be very 
healthful for their emotional well-being for us to discuss frankly 
and fully the social values which are nourished by cooperation 
and starved by competition. 

Camps are probably doing more than their share to help young 
people to learn how to live well together. Hiking trips, canoe trips, 
mountain climbs, cooperative games, ropes courses and 
challenging initiative activities are just a few of the popular, 
physical activities which lend themselves beautifully to the 
development of shared efforts. We can also achieve desirable 
goals by avoiding the pitting of one person against another — by 
keeping individual records of growth and achievement in walk¬ 
ing, running, climbing or other exercising. We must avoid com¬ 
paring apples and oranges. Oranges can never have rosy cheeks 
like some apples. Even greening apples cannot have rosy cheeks. 
Short, heavy children can rarely become winners in foot races 
with taller, slimmer children. A well shaped runner who does not 
like competing may compare well in a race with a less well¬ 
shaped but gung-ho competitor. Why do we, in physical 
activities, compare unequals and reward the more competent? 
Just because six girls in a race are all twelve years old and about 
the same size does not make them all equally competent to win 
the race. In our new C.C.A. program, let us look more critically at 
highly competitive activities and search for more mentally and 
socially healthful alternative ways of providing the physical 
exercise. 


Fitness Canada and the C.C.A. are right in encouraging 
Canadians to be more conscious of the need for young (and all) 
people to keep in good physical condition. In these days of getting 
our sports by observing them from an armchair in front of a T.V., 
there is urgency in Participaction’s messages. The C.C.A. could 
influence half a million children each year to see more clearly the 
need for the regular exercising of their cardio-vascular and mus¬ 
cular systems to avoid falling into the habit of paying others to 
exercise for sports rather than to serve themselves through the 
pleasure and healthful invigoration of simple, individual 
activities available to all of us most of the time. 

“Issues in Preventive Health Care” by Ray Jackson, a recent 
Science Council of Canada discussion paper, points out how 
current trends in health care are likely to become an incon¬ 
ceivably heavy financial burden on Canada's taxpayers. The way 
to avoid such a disaster, the report urges, is to place on illness pre¬ 
vention all the emphasis needed to persuade all Canadians to 
find out about and undertake an adequate program of self-help 
for physical — and emotional — well-being. Physical well-being 
might be provided for by training for team sports, but, as 
indicated by Dr. Pitman above, the intense competition of such 
participation does not appeal to many children. As the C.C.A. 
develops new emphasis on physical activity, it is in a much better 
position than schools and community organizations to maintain 
in this new emphasis a balancing concern for emotional well¬ 
being. A friend of mine likes to quote Charlie Brown as saying: 
“Winning isn't everything, but losing isn’t anything.” I am 
inclined to remind the losers that losing is something, if they have 
enjoyed the game, exerted themselves, had some good exercise, 
learned more about the game and made better friends — even 
among their opponents. Losing, too, can make us mentally and 
physically more healthy. 

One rarely sees a blacksmith these days but an old metaphor 
may illustrate. The iron is hot. The time to shape it is NOW. The 
C.C.A.'s new policy on physical activity must be shaped so that 
the emotional well-being aspect is incorporated into the plan. It is 
becoming the “in” thing these days to regard the whole person 
with respect to his well-being. Talking holistic medicine is 
becoming acceptable — even popular. We all know the author 
Norman Cousins laughed himself back from the edge of the 
grave. Cancer specialists assert that a positive determined 
attitude can work miracles for cancer cure. The Reader’s Digest 
asserts each month that “Laughter is the Best Medicine”. The 
emotional element in a physical education program is as impor¬ 
tant as the exercise part. Let us, while shaping the C.C.A.'s new 
emphasis, give abundant recognition to this point. 

La nouvelle politique de AC.C. sur les activites physiques doit 
@tre formulae de fa$on a y inclure non seulement les activity 
physiques mais aussi doit englober I’aspect bien §tre mental et 
6motionnel de la personne. Nous connaissons tous I’Stonnante 
histoire du c6l£bre auteur Norman Cousins qui fut presque 
ressuccite d’entre les morts. Les autoristees m§dicales s’accor- 
dent tous & dire que la dis position mentale d’un patient fait plus de 
miracles que la m§decine, surtout en ce qui concerne le 
cancer. 

L’aspect §motif d’un bon programme physique est aussi impor¬ 
tant que I’activite physique elle-m§me. Faisons en sorte, que 
notre politique reconnaisse ce point de vue. 


10 



WHAT IS PARC? 


SOME THOUGHTS ON THE 
INSTALLATION OF NEW BOARDS 

by JANET ADAMSON 
PRESIDENT CCA. 

All of you on the new Board will participate in many meetings 
and as I thought about what to say to you, I thought that if I gave 
you five hints for Board meetings, I would perhaps contribute 
something to your installation as officers of the Board. 

1) First rule — remember a camel is a horse invented by a com¬ 
mittee — we all know and believe in the synergy created by a 
group, but keep looking over your shoulder for those camels. 

2) Second rule — How many times have you heard “oh we tried 
that in 1914 — it didn’t work”. Mark Twain says “We should be 
careful to get out of an experience only the wisdom that is in it and 
stop there, lest we be like the cat that sits on a hot stove lid. She will 
never sit down on a hot stove lid again and that is well; but she will 
never sit down on a cold one either.” 

3) Third rule — Speak out, shout out, beat the table, wake them 
up; — Maybe your opinion or solution is the one the world has 
been waiting for. Teddy Roosevelt said, “Far better it to dare 
mighty things, to win glorious triumphs, even though checkered 
by failure, than to rank with those poor spirits who neither enjoy 
much nor suffer much, because they live in the gray twilight that 
knows no victory nor defeat” 

4) Fourth rule — Don’t cidcize others — next month you might 
be the one to blow it 

5) Fifth rule — From Alexander Pope, “A man should never be 
ashamed to say he has been wrong, which is but saying in other 
words that he is wiser today than he was yesterday.” 

And now your agenda for the next two years: as a member of 
your Association, I plead with you to put two things on that 
agenda. The first is contained in this thought “Something will 
have gone out of us as a people if we ever let the remaining wilder¬ 
ness be destroyed; if we permit the last virgin forests to be turned 
into comic books and plastic cigarette cases; if we drive the few 
remaining members of the wild species into zoos or to extinction; 
if we pollute the last clean air and dirty the last clean streams and 
push our paved roads through the last silence, so that never again 
will Canadians be free in their own country from noise, exhaust, 
the stink of human and automotive waste.” 

The second item on your agenda is the most important You 
have been chosen to be our leaders. Amid all the complex busi¬ 
ness of Association work, please never, ever forget why we have 
an Association — those children who attend our camps. Thank 
you for taking on the responsibility of leadership. We wish you 
well. 


IMPORTANT! 
Curriculum Corrections 

Fitness Canada has received, reviewed and applauded the 
new C.C A. document “Curriculum for Camp Directors: A 
Professional Development Resource.” Please note the two 
errors in your own copies and make the corrections. 

Pp75 Studies and Reports 

6. Fitness ... the future Canadian Summit on 
Fitness, 1986. Fitness Canada. 

Pp75 Resources 

Canadian Fitness and Lifestyle Institute 
Suite 200, 47 Clarence Street 
Ottawa, Ontario KIN 9K1 


PARC STANDS FOR PHYSICAL RESPONSIBILITY CEN¬ 
TRE, so named by Fitness Canada. Through PARC, and our new 
PARC employee, Aniko Varpalotai, the CCA/ACC plans to take 
an active leadership role in increasing the quality and quantity of 
physical activity in Canadian Camps. These are the goals of 
PARC and the CCA/ACC: 

To increase the awareness of the benefits of physical activity in 
camping. — AWARENESS. 

To develop the leadership of paid and volunteer management 
and program staff in physical activity programs. Target groups: 
Camp Directors, Counsellors, CITs, Activity Specialists, and 
Management Boards. — LEADERSHIP. 

To develop, promote, evaluate and support the implementa¬ 
tion of the delivery of quality physical activity programs in 
camps. —PROGRAMS. 

To liaise with affiliated and allied physical activity 
organizations. — NETWORK. 

To establish the human, physical and financial support 
required to ensure the achievement of the PARC mandate. — 
MANAGEMENT. 

Please welcome Aniko Varpalotai, our new PARC Director. 

Aniko has been involved in family camping since early 
childhood and became active in organized camp work during the 
completion of her undergraduate degree in physical and health 
education at Queen’s University. She directed the YMCA and 
YWCA day camps in Niagara Falls for three summers, and dur¬ 
ing that time attended the Bark Lake Camp Directors’ Workshop. 
In the meantime, Aniko completed her Master’s degree, also at 
Queen’s University in the Sociology of Sport and Leisure. She 
was coaching a girls’ ringette team while in Kingston and was 
hired to work at the Quanahar Ringette Camp in Haliburton as a 
Senior Resource Staff, where her primary responsibility was to 
coordinate the Leader-in-Training program. During the three 
years that Aniko worked at Quanahar she developed the pro¬ 
gram and produced a handbook for the dual training of camp 
counsellors and ringette instructors. 

Aniko is currently completing her PhD thesis at the Ontario 
Institute for Studies in Education, in the department of Sociology 
in Education. Her thesis research was actually carried out at 
Quanahar where she interviewed the staff and some of the older 
campers. The subject of Aniko’s thesis is the leisure education of 
adolescent girls, with a case study of girls who continue to par¬ 
ticipate extensively in sports. 

During her years of graduate studies she has worked as a teach¬ 
ing assistant at both the University of Toronto and Queen’s in 
their Schools of Physical and Health Education. Aniko also 
spent a year, following the completion of her M A, as a full-time 
research assistant, at Queen’s, on a project documenting federal 
government sport, recreation and fitness policy-making. 

Aniko is anticipating an exciting and challenging year as the 
PARC director of the CCA, and looks forward to meeting and 
working together with the CCA to make this project a success! 


11 






Reflexions sur (’introduction de 
nouveaus conseils 

par Janet Adamson 
prisidente de 1’AC.C. 

A tous les vouveaux conseillers qui siSseront sur des conseils et 
reunions laissez-moi vous donner quelques conseils. 

1) Premiere rSgles: Rappelez-vous que le chameau est un 
cheval invents par un comity. Nous connaissons tous et nous 
crayons tous £ la dynamtque de groups, mais II ne taut jamais per- 
dre de vue le chameau. 

2) Deuxfome r&gle: Combien de fois avez-vous entendu “Nous 
avons d£j£ essayl ceci ou cel£ et ca n’a rien donn£. Mark Twain 
disait II ne taut pas tirer plus conclusion d’une experience que ce 
qu’ellea£offrir.Nesoyons pas commele chat 6chaud£quiaaussi 
peur de i’eau froide. 

3) Trolsldme regie: Dites ce que vous avez £ dire, criez la m@me 
s6couez les gens. Votr6 idee ou votre opinion est peut-dtre oeile 
que tout le monde attendait Teddy Roosevelt disait A peu pres 
ceci: A vaincre sans peril on triomphe sans gtoire. 

4) Quatrl&me regie: II ne taut jamais critiquer les erreurs des 
autres car la prochalne peut etre la vdtre. 

5) Cinquieme regie: D’Alexander Pope nous retenons: Un 
homme ne doit Jamais avoir peur d'avouer qu'il a eu tord car du fait 
m§me, II en est que plus sage. 

Voile maintenant votre agenda pour les deux prachalnes 
annfies. Dans votre agenda, je vous pris d’accorder une place 
toute particuliere e ces deux choses. 

La premiere continue dans cette id£e. Que du bien sera dit d’un 
peuple qui aura r£ussi £ garder le peu de la nature qui reste, telle 
qu’elle, sauvage. Si nous arrivons k garder intacte la demiere for§t 
avant qu’on en fasse du papier pour les bande-dessin§es ou pour 
des etuis £ cigarettes en plast'que, si nous arrivons e sauver de la 
captivite, la demiere esp£ce animate d’un zoo de sa destruction 
finale, si nous arrivons e garder clair et limpide le dernier ruisseau, 
ou courant d’air et que nous arrivions£ conserver le silence, la pro- 
prete et la beaute de la plus lointaine for§t des dechets humains, 
alors nous n’aurons pas travailler en vain. 

Ladeuxiemeparfiedei’agendaesttouteaussiimportante.Vous 
avez ete choisi pour guider, menez. Dans votre travail au sein de 
(’Association ne perdez jamais de vue, pourquoi vous avez 6t£ 
choisi com me leader cesont pour ces milllers d’enfants qui assis- 
teront k nos camps. 

Mercf, d’avoir accepter un tel rflle, un tel d£fi et une telle respon- 
sabilit4 Tous mes voeux vos accompagnent 


IMPORTANT 

Corrections du programme 

Rarticipaction Canada a regu et a approuv6 le nouveau 
document sur le ddveloppement des dlrecteurs de 
camp, un ddveloppement de ressources profession- 
nelles de 1’A.C.C. 

Notez et corrlgez 

p.p. 75 Etudes et compte-rendus 

6 Le prochain soumet canadien de 
participaction. 
p.p. 75 Ressources 

Participaction Canada et le “Lifestyle Institute” 
Suite 200, 

47 Clarence St 
Ottawa, Ontario K1N9K1 


Qu’est-ce que “PARC” 

Parc, c’est pour “Physical Activity Responsibility Centre” 

— la Centre responsable des acfivites physiques—ainsi appefo 
par Partlcipactlon-Canada et 1’A.C.C. 

Ce programme, sour la direction d’Aniko Varpalotai vise a 
augmenter les activity dans les camps canadiens. 

Void les objectifs fix£s par Parfcipaction-Canada et 1’A.C.C./ 
C.CA 

Pramouvoir les biens-faits de I’activitO physique en plein air— 

PRISE DE CONSCIENCE. 

Deveiopper les aptitudes de leader parmi les employes £ salaire 
ou volontaires. Deveiopper de meilleurs programmes d’activites 
physiques k tous les echelons de I’Assodation — 

LEADERSHIP. 

Deveiopper, promouvoiretsoutenir I’implantation des program¬ 
mes d’activit6s physiques de qualites dans les camps — 

PROGRAMMES. 

Creer un r£seau de communication entre les organismes affities 

— COMMUNICATION. 

Etablir un lien desoutien entre les echelons humains, physiques 
et financiers afin d’assurer le plein 6panouissement du mandat 
que c’est donne PARC — ADMINISTRATION. 

C’est ce que comptefaire la nouvelle directrice de PARC, Anlko 
Varpalotai. 

Aniko, c’est toujours interessee de fagon active £ la vie en plein 
air. Pendant qu’elle preparait son brevet en education physique 
loisirs et sante qu’elle a obtenue de I'Universite Queen, eile a pen¬ 
dant trois ans, d6rig6 le YMCA de Niagara Falls tout en suivant un 
atelier pour dlrecteur de camp k Bark Lake Eile a ensuite obtenue 
une m§itrise en sociologie des sports et loisirs. Elle a 6t6 entrSineur 
d’une equlpe de ringette £ Kingston et directrice du Quanahar 
Ringette Camp de Haliburton a tHre de coordonnatrice de 
“Leader-In-Training Program.” En plus, elle a d£velopp£ un docu¬ 
ment portant sur le ddveloppement des directeurs des camp et 
des entrfiineurs de ringette. 

Pr£sentement Aniko compl£te sa th£se de doctorat en 
sodologie d’£ducation a O.I.S.E (Insitute des Etudes en Educa¬ 
tion de I’Ontario). C’est au camp Quanahar qu’elle a observd et 
interviews le personnel ainso que quelques campeurs. Elleaaussi 
men£ les recherches de sa thSsa Elies portaient sur I’Stude de 
jeunes adolescentes et de leurs intSrSts de leur poursuite dans le 
domains des sports du loisir et de la santS. Pendant ces annSes 
des formation universitaire Aniko a aussi travaillS £ I’UniversitS de 


physique du loisir et de la saritS. Ensuite sefot en font qu’assls- 


politiques d’un project fSdSral sur les sports, te loisir etfosahtA 

C’est done avec beaucoup d’enthousiasme qu’Aniko entrefo- 
rend la direction de PARC. 


bres de PAC.C. afin de<foire decs projet un Sdatant succSs. 


12 














Between 
The Covers 


Entre 
Les Lignes 


EXPLORING ENVIRONMENTAL CHANGE 


CCA Bookstore News! 


This is a dynamite new project for your environment or nature 
program. The kit includes 5 illustrated panels in full colour, each 
60 x 30 cm and a 42 page Teacher/Leader Guide. 

The illustrations are of the same camp setting beside a lake and 
removed from an urban development in the distance. The first 
illustration depicts the 1940’s and 1950’s, the next ones are 1960, 
then 1970, 1980 and 1986. In each illustration, one sees the 
changes over time. Each season is represented and different 
times of day have been selected. 

The Teacher/Leader Guide begins with a description of each 
panel and what to look for in the panel with reference to eight 
major themes: 


The next portion of the Guide examines each theme. Oppor¬ 
tunities to observe the illustrations will give campers an 
immediate understanding and appreciation of the impact of 
humans on the environment as well as the value of restorative 
ecology. 

This learning tool utilizes a camp setting making it ideally 
suited to camping and outdoor education programs. A few 
moments with the Teacher/Leader Guide opens the possibilities 
for activities using the illustrations. 


Cost: $48. per kit (Member) 

$56. per kit (Non-member). 


The 10% tariff on imported books has been dropped. All future 
sales of these books will receive the appropriate discount. The 
Publications 1987 catalogue prices have changed to reflect this 
new policy as of May 1, 1987. 

Books listed in “Between the Covers” are available from the 
Canadian Camping Association Bookstore. 

Orders that are $20.00 or less must be prepaid with $2.00 added 
for shipping. Contact the C.C A office by mail or phone: 

Canadian Camping Association 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario 
M5M 3Z1 
(416) 781-4717 


Jan James (left),co-author of “Exploring Environmental Change pre 
sents a copy of the publication to Janet Adamson , President. 


L’environnement en evolution 


Quel document pour notre programme sur I’Stude de la 
nature. Cette trousse comprend 5 panneaux illustrSs en 
couleur, chacun mesurant 60 x 30 cm; accompagnS d’un 
guide de 42 page pour le professeur. 

Les illustrations ont 6t6 tiroes du m§me lieu, un camp, loin de 
la vie urbaine. Chaque saison y est repr6sent£e a differents de 
temps de la journ^e. 

La premiere nous montre le lieu entre les annees 40 et 50, la 
deuxteme, le meme lieu durant les annees 50 a 60, entre 1960 a 
70, de 70 a 80 et de 80 a 1986. Nous pouvons ainsi mieux 
observer et comprendre les changements encourrus. 

Le guide du professeur, nous donne la description th^mati- 
Que de chaque panneaux. II souligne 8 points d’6tude et d’ob- 
servation importants — 

— les activity & faire 

— I’aspect £cologique 

— Penvironnement 

— Paspect Sconomique 

— les intervention humaine 

— les installations 

— I’aspect technologique 

— les personnes 


Les campeurs ont aussi I’occasion d’observer, de mieux 
comprendre et d’appr6cier le fragile Squilibre de la nature qui 
risque & tout moment d’etre renvers6. II vente aussi les merites 
de programmes tels que le reboissement et le rStablissement de 
P6quilibre naturel. 

Cette trousse est id6ale pour Pindustrie du camping puis- 
qu’elle utilise dans ces exemples, un lieu tel que nos camps et 
vient ajouter a nos efforts educatif des activity en plein air. 


* activities 

* ecology 

* environment 

* economics 


* human intervention 

* facilities 

* technology 

* people 


Publications Committee 


- C.C.A. 


Prix $48.00 pour les membres 

$56.00 pour les non-membres 



LEAD ON ... COUNSELLOR 

What a pleasure to do a review of this book, my favorite camp 
staff book. It’s exciting, enthusiastic, creative, fun to read and 
even more fun to use the ideas presented. 

I have to hand it to our four authors who have found a realistic 
and enthusiastic way to relay those all important counsellor facts 
to new staff, without scaring them off. 

Counsellors are the backbone of most camps, and this wonder¬ 
ful book teaches these young people just that. One of the strongest 
messages we get from “Lead On... Counsellor” is that “we are all 
here for our campers — they must be our top priority.” This is 
exemplified in the quote: 

“A CAREFUL FELLOW I WANT TO BE 
A LITTLE FELLOW FOLLOWS ME 
I DO NOT DARE TO GO ASTRAY 
FOR FEAR HE'LL GO THE SELF SAME WAY” 

taken from page 5, written by John Wooden. 

I would even recommend that every director read thoroughly 
“Lead On ... Counsellor” to gain some insight on his/her staff. 
My only complaint is that it is not longer! 

Truly one of the best books YOU can buy ... I never go any¬ 
where without at least one copy! 

LEAD ON ... COUNSELLOR, Camp Tawingo Publications, 
272 p., 1982. Cost: $8.00. 

LEAD ON ... COUNSELLOR 

Quel plaisir pour moi d’avoir I’occasion d’6crire dans ma 
pr6feri§e, une courte 6loge de ce merveilleux livre. Lead On ... 
Counsellor — que je traduirais. Aptes vous, messieurs les 
conseilliers. 

Ce livre est dynamique, 6l6ctrifiant, cteatif et pratique. Aux quar- 
tre auteur de ce livre, je teve mon chapeau. II ont teussi k communi- 
quer de fagon interessante et en6rg6tique, toute I’information 
pertinente aux moniteurs surtout aux nouveaux venus, sans les 
avoir endormis, affoutes ou effray6s. 


Ce livre est pour eux. Ils sont le squelette, la charpente des 
camps. Le plus grand message du livre est que notre devoir envers 
les campeurs, sa premiere et principale legon est que les campeur 
sont ou devraient Stre numero un. Voifa ce que John Wooden 6crit 
k cet effet a la page cinq: 

“que de prudence et un bon 
exemple je me dois d’etre 
car un petit bonhomme me suit 
je n’oserais mtegarer 
de peur qu’il me suive” 

Je recommende fortement k tous les directeurs ce livre Lead on 
... Counsellor Apres afin qu’ils aient une meilleure comprehen¬ 
sion de leur personnel. Le seul d£faut de ce livre, c’est qu’il est trop 
court. C’est vraiment le meilleur livre que vous puissiez acheter. 
J’ai toujours avec moi au moins une copie. 

Lead on Counsellor. 

Publications Camp Tawingo, 272 p., 1982, $8.00. 

disponible a la librairie de 1’A.C.C. 

— La surtaxe de 10% sur les livres imports n’est plus en 
vigueur. 

— A I’avenir, toutes ventes de cette mattere sera assujettie au 
rabais ptevu. Vous trouverez dans le catalogue de Publication 87, 
les changements de prix tefletant cette nouvelle politique en 
vigueur depuis le 11 er mai, 1987. Tous les livres mentionn§s dans 
la chronique “Entre les lignes” sont disponibles k la librairie 
de I’AC.C. 

Les commandes de $20.00 et moins doivent §tre payees comp- 
tant, prtere d’ ajouter $2.00 pour frais de livraison. 

Communiquez par poste ou telephone: 

A.C.C./C.C.A. 

1806 Avenue Road, 

Suite 2, 

Toronto, Ontario, 

M5M 3Z1 
(416) 781-4717. 

Comit6 de publication — A.C.C. 


CAMP SUDACA 

CAMP SUDACA is pleased to announce that 1987 marks its 20th 
anniversary. Reunion events are now being planned for the 
week-end of August 1st and 2nd, 1987. 

Any former staff or camper is encouraged to contact 
Lionel Courtemanche for details. 


Lionel Courtemanche 
Program Co-ordinator 
City of Sudbury 
Bag 5000, Station ‘A’ 
Sudbury, Ontario P3A 5P3 
(705) 674-3141, Ext 457 



14 




CAMPING TOMORROW — WHAT DOES TODAY TELL 

At the 1987 O.CA. Conference for Directors and Senior Staff, 
the Keynote Speaker was Armand Ball, Executive Vice-President 
of the American Camping Association 


La quality de la vie en plein air 
d’hier sera-t-elle celle de demain? 

— de la Conference de I’A.C.O. pour les directeurs 
et le personnel senior ; 1987. 

— conference envite, Armand Ball f president — adjoint 
a Yexecutif 

de Yassociation du camping American, YA.C.A. 

Le camping et la vie en plein air ne nous a pas 6t§ donn616g6re- 
ment. La tradition et le patrimoine de la vie en plein air ne nous a 
pas 6t6 transmise de fagon nonchalante. Ce qui nous a 6t6 
transmis par les generations pass£es, nous nous devons de la 
transmettre aux generations futures tel quel. Voile notre respon- 
sabilite envers la generation prochaine. 

Thank you — it is good to be back in Toronto and it is par¬ 
ticularly nice to be really at the Ontario Camping Association 
Conference for my first time. I feel like 1 have been to Toronto so 
many times on various camping events and so forth that I hadn't 
realized that I really hadn't been to an OCA Conference before, 
so when Joanne called I realized that this was a real treat for me. 
We are looking forward to the first week of March and to seeing 
many of you — about 150 — already registered for the Inter¬ 
national Camping Congress in Washington and we are working 
hard to try to keep up with what you did here a few years ago and it 
promises to be a very exciting event and we are very appreciative 
of your participation and your leadership in this pattern. 

I have a very warm and personal sort of feeling for Canada. For 
thirteen years I directed a canoe tripping camp on the northern 
Minnesota border within about thirteen miles of the Canadian 
border and about 50% of the trips we took were in Canada and 
during my thirteen years there I vicariously helped plan and live 
through six and seven week trips that extended from Montreal to 
the Pacific Ocean, Hudson's Bay to the Artie Ocean, all across the 
barren land and I feel a real kinship and a real sense of the mar¬ 
vellous wilderness that you have preserved so well in this country. 
I have a great appreciation, vicariously also, because it came 
from the young people who tripped in Canada during those 
years, for the Canadian people. For wherever we were, whether it 
was Indians or whether it was Canadians in the back bush along 
the way across the country, our campers always came back with a 
great appreciation of the hospitality and the warmth that the 
Canadians gave to them in their visits here. And it was as com¬ 
mon to sing around our campfire “O Canada" as it was many of 
our American folk songs. So it is with real warmth that I am 
delighted to be here and be a part of this gathering this evening. It 
is with some hesitancy that I talk a bit about camping tomorrow 
and where we have been in camping. I was glad that at least you 
defined it well enough to say that I could talk about trends in the 
United States because I would be very hesitant to apply those to 
Canada, though, I gather there are some applications, unfor¬ 
tunate applications in some regards in terms of trends and so 
forth in our country. So you must keep in mind that if I talk this 
evening at least initially as I converse about some of the things 
that I have seen happen in our country in the last decade that has 
really affected camping, I am not necessarily saying that is the 
case here. You'll have to make that judgment or that application. 
But I would say that as I looked at these sorts of things that have 
occurred and then went back and sort of looked over them there 



are very few of them that I see as halting at this time, that I do not 
see continuing to affect the life of the camping movement in our 
country. Now I am going to go through a mish mash of things that 
I trust you are not going to try to take notes on, I did take the 
liberty of putting it on some blue pages down here on the floor a 
couple of sheets that summarize some of those trends as I have 
seen them — you can pick up after the session and not shuffle 
papers while I am talking and not have to take notes either and go 
to sleep if you want to and we can work from there. 

There have been really three factors, major general factors that 
have greatly influenced camping in our country over the last 
decade. One of them is the whole population demographics of 
our country. We have seen in this decade a dramatic drop in the 
number of traditional camper age persons. The youth in our 
country dropped dramatically during this ten years. Now, 
interestingly it was not something we did not know was going to 
happen because if we had stopped and looked at the 
demographics at the beginning of the seventies we would have 
known that the birthrate had dropped and that the natural hap¬ 
pening in the birthrate dropping was that we were going to have 
less campers six years later. But, as usual we didn't always look 
ahead with great foresight — when it happened to us we began to 
think, gee, we have fewer six, seven and eight year olds and by the 
time it got to be ten and twelve year olds you begin to catch on that 
it was with us to stay for a while. But it has had a dramatic effect. It 
has meant that Camp Directors have suddenly realized that we 
have got to fill camp — we have empty beds. So they have diver¬ 
sified the clientele that they serve, begun to serve adults, begun to 
realize that there are a lot more senior adults around, and begun 
to serve senior adults, begun to realize that we can rent a whole 
week of camp orbring in a whole group of camp people with mus¬ 
cular dystrophy. Next week we can bring in a whole group of per¬ 
sons with diabetes, the next week we can bring a whole group of 
persons with cancer and we can serve this particular health 
specialty. It is amazing the rapid increase of service to very 
specialized health problems in our country. A very exciting sort 
of program really. Sort of a diversification of the sort of thing we 
have done in terms of service to the disabled and we have really 
seen many of these youngsters in disabled camps who are not 
greatly handicapped move in mainstream into ordinary camp 
programs and ordinary camp populations but we have really 
diversified the clientele we serve. The same time our agency and 


15 



church camps have said we have got to use our facility all year 
long particularly if we are near the city, if we have some way to 
winterize, if it is somewhat cost efficient for us to do so we will rent 
the camp out, we will bring out groups in, we will fill the beds to 
offset our losses in the summer in this fashion. Other camps have 
said we have gotten four sessions of campers and we will fill each 
one of them 75%. Maybe what we should really do is cut back to 
three sessions and to fill them 100% and so we have seen the shor¬ 
tening of seasons in many camp settings. In many of the 
traditional eight week camps which are very strong in the State 
and parts of the country, we have seen stepping back a little bit to 
two four week sessions. Taking youngsters for eight weeks but 
willing to take youngsters for at least four weeks and then going 
home. We have seen a demise of camps in the agency and church 
field where an organization had four or five camps in a met¬ 
ropolitan area and they realized they were not filling all five 
camps, they said we can get rid of one camp and fill the other four 
or fill the other three and we will get rid of two camps. And so we 
have seen many organizations actually lose in the net number of 
camps that that organization has nationally. We have seen many 
private camps who have struggled to keep up and when the youth 
population dropped that was the straw that broke their back and 
they decided to hang up their hat and there was no one to pass the 
camp down to and that camp is closed. We have seen camp direc¬ 
tors become concerned first about marketing — they learned a 
whole new word — marketing, and they began to talk it and they 
began to go to conferences, they began to go to workshops and the 
first priority was to find the camper and many camp directors 
who have been relaxed and had always gotten their campers by 
word of mouth and filled up about the first of January ... after 
they struggled to the first of June to get a reasonable number in 
camp the next year were out beating the bushes in September. 
And the whole attitude about getting campers really changed in a 
short period of time and we saw referral agencies flourish and I 
gather that is not a phenomena that has really extended itself 
greatly into Canada but it has really flourished particularly in the 
eastern coast where agencies recruit campers for camps which 
pay them 10%-15% of the fees for that camper. That has grown 
greatly during this period, to the point that some camps have 
relied so heavily that they are getting 20% of their campers from 
referral services. You can calculate that out in your head, can’t 
you and get the financial implications of that for a camp budget? 
Now all of a sudden the youth population is growing again — 
about 5 or 6 years ago we began to have a mini baby boom and 
suddenly we are getting 6,7 and 8 year olds back at camp and now 
there are promises that we are going to have that sort of popula¬ 
tion now for another6 or 8 years. So we are beginning to see a little 
imbalance in camp populations. Lots more younger campers 
than older campers but at the same time, of course, those places 
where we did not have campers, those persons have grown up and 
they are now staff age and there is a 25% shrinkage in the young 
adult population in our country in the last couple of years. And 
suddenly staff is the name of the game — it is very difficult to get 
staff and we are struggling with that issue of how do you find staff 
in a decreasing market where even the fast food outlets are adver¬ 
tising in big ads and paying $5 and $6 an hour for persons to work 
at McDonalds and Wendys and so on and that suddenly puts 
another tight squeeze on the camp market in terms of staff. Dur¬ 
ing this period we have gradually increased our reliance upon 
international staff and I would guess that many camps in our 
country today have 25% or more of their staff who come as inter¬ 
national staff. When they couldn’t find male counsellors they 
turned to Bunacamp or Camp America or International Student 
Service to provide these staff. No one is talking right now about 
what happens when those young adults become the child bearing 
parents and obviously with fewer of those parents we will have 
fewer children again so we will have less campers but we will have 
the larger child population which will have produced a larger 
staff population so we will see that cycle roll over again in about 
10-12 years. The whole picture has greatly affected peoples 


attitudes in terms of marketing and how they deal with camp 
populations. Apart from that a little different sort of 
demographic development is the recognition in our country of 
the large population of senior adults that has come about 
through health care, through improved vigour in terms of the 
older adult and the possibilities of camps offering a whole new 
horizon for senior adults in terms of programming and activities 
and we are just really getting into that in some realistic fashion 
and that is an exciting dimension. The second factor that has 
made a significant impact in this period of time is the whole 
economic picture and that one I recall we share with you because 
you have gone through some of the similar ups and downs of 
inflation and recession and I gather relatively speaking have 
affected you as abruptly as they have affected us, unfortunately. 
That has meant to us a real increase in fees. Fees are much higher 
— probably double — what they were ten years ago in terms of 
camp. Camper fees have increased drastically. We have seen a 
shortening of sessions in many, particularly non-profit camps 
who rather than raise their fees will cut a day and charge for 6 
days what they would have charged for 7 days and done that not 
once but twice and that has affected in my mind the quality of the 
experience that many youngsters get. And some camps, I would 
unfortunately suggest have cut comers. I don’t mean just cut cost 
and we all have to do that but cut corners in terms of providing a 
quality experience sometimes for youngsters in order to balance 
the books and that does not profit anyone, least of all the camper. 
But while we have seen the problem with fees and cost and all of 
that, of course the land on which the camps sit has increased in 
value 2 and 3 and 4 times in this decade and suddenly the invest¬ 
ment a person has in a property or organization has in the pro¬ 
perty is tremendous — well that is great, that is fine until the 
mother organization gets in serious trouble because the youth 
population has been declining and that youth organization at the 
local level is not prepared for and suddenly they are in great 
economic trouble and because the camp is not full suddenly they 
decide, well, we have this piece of property and the camp is not 
full and the campers can go to this other agency's camp so we will 
sell the camp and get that money, save the mother agency and 
camping goes down the drain. Arid we have seen that repeated 
not once, not twice but many times and in some of the largest met¬ 
ropolitan areas in our country. At the same time we have seen 
camps that have hung on and grown larger, particularly if an 
organization is consolidating camps like we spoke of in the first 
part where we had five camps and then three — obviously those 
camps have gotten larger. They have added some buildings. We 
have not decreased in terms of building camps, we have a camp 
that spent 4 million dollars last year in renovation and addition 
to its property.There are camps that are building, that are adding, 
that are modernizing. So it is not that some camps are not enlarg¬ 
ing but it is that many camps have not had that option and then 
we have the case of the private camps where you have the owner, 
the director, who have not put much aside for retirement, cer¬ 
tainly not in proportion to the inflation that we have felt during 
this period and suddenly it is faced to getting very close to retire¬ 
ment and there is no one in the family who wants the camp 



16 






and here the property is worth 4 times what it was and certainly 3 
times what it would be worth to sell as a camp in today’s market. 
But if we sold it for development on this lake front we can get that 
much more and it has been a real struggle for some people who 
have wound up selling the camp for development purposes and 
therefore really ensuring their retirement years because of the 
income from it. It is a tragedy because in the process we have lost 
open space, we have lost a camp and we have lost a lot of heritage. 
And then of course we have had the wonderful interest rates that 
we have enjoyed for a while during this period and the people 
who enjoyed them the most were the insurance companies. They 
suddenly realized that they could make a mint by getting all the 
premiums in and investing them — they could make more than 
they could by all the underwriting they ever did. So they went to 
town building buildings and making money and they wrote as 
much insurance as they could — very competetive market, very 
soft market. Then all of a sudden interest rates went down and the 
people they had been writing under the soft market begin to have 
all these losses and the losses coincided with their time and their 
income from interest went down and so what we have experien¬ 
ced in this state is tripling and quadrupling of rates in a one and 
two year period. So that we have seen insurance simply take your 
breath away. It has broken some camps’ backs and many camps 
are struggling today with what they do with an insurance pre¬ 
mium that they just cannot afford. I know some camps in one 
part of the country that are paying $1600. for horse insurance per 
horse — so you can multiply that out and see what sort of effect 
that would have on a camp horseback program. 

Well we have been through cycles before but none of them 
quite so severe as this one and undoubtedly the market is going to 
soften we think in another 9 or 10 months and we will see some 
back tracking but I am afraid this is the sort of thing that will go 
up and down. 

The third area that has affected us is a series of societal changes 
which haven’t been as headline seeking or as dramatic to us as 
the economy and the population but there are a variety of things 
that have happened in our lifestyle that have affected camp. We 
have seen, and I think we share this one again, a great increase in 
the number of single parent families and the increase in the num¬ 
ber of two working parent families and suddenly we have seen a 
great increase in daycare, a great concern about what we do with 
Johnny during the days when both parents are working or when a 
single parent is working. And we have seen in that process the 
tremendous growth in day camps. Day camps have probably 
doubled in the last decade and have doubled their enrollments 
and there are all sorts of every type spread across the country. 
And despite what your Health and Welfare Minister said in this 
morning's paper, I think daycare is here to stay, I think the work¬ 
ing parents are here to stay and I fear single parents are here to 
stay and that we are going to have to deal with the whole issue of 
daycare and how camping relates to daycare and its roles in that 
whole approach as we move ahead in society today. But it has 
affected us — our camp population and how we deal with 
children in camp; it has affected volunteerism. And 
organizations that have depended upon volunteers to come and 
direct two weeks of camp in the summer for a Girl Scouts Council 
have suddenly discovered that those people are working and they 
don’t have a week to give and they have had to really look at dif¬ 
ferent methods of dealing with volunteers in the camp setting and 
lots of our camps deal with volunteers both in the church and the 
organizational arena — that has made a significant difference. 
35% of the children in our country do not live with both of their 
biological parents — that is a significant difference in how they 
view life and the sorts of needs they come to camp with, the sort of 
upheaval they have felt, sometimes the lack of a father figure and 
the sort of financial strain that often those families have felt and 
continue to feel. And there is every indication that that figure may 
increase as we move along. We have certainly seen a significant 
increase in attention to child abuse and sexual abuse and the day 


care centres and the schools have made the headlines in our 
papers, fortunately the camps have not made those headlines in 
many cases. But it exists in camps, it always has. Camp as any 
residential setting for children provides an opportunity for per¬ 
sons to in some way abuse those children. I think we have always 
dealth with that issue, those of us who have faced it in camp in the 
past, we have dealt with it as honestly and as humanely and as 
well as we could given the circumstances of the situation. But that 
was a different age, today we don’t have that freedom. Because 
suddenly in our country every state requires the reporting of such 
an incident to a state body and in most cases the state then takes 
over the next steps of dealing with the offenders and dealing with 
the child. So we have become very aware of reporting and of our 
legal position and of what steps we need to take to protect our¬ 
selves and to protect the camper and to protect the employee, all 
of which are factors of which you have to balance in this game. 
We have really gotten into the matter of trying to educate our¬ 
selves about what is involved in child abuse and how we screen 
people in the interview process and the employment process. 
And as a result we have also had a number of lawsuits — we love 
to file lawsuits in our country! And of course, that means that 
eventually the insurance company settles the case out of court 
rather than pay because it is cheaper and therefore, we begin to 
get awards. A year or so ago it was a little over $100,000 but this 
year all of a sudden we find that there was an award amounting to 
a quarter of a million dollars for one child that has been allegedly 
abused in a camp situation. All of that puts tremendous pressure 
on insurance, in which most insurance policies in our country 
today will not cover sexual abuse in a camp setting — that is a 
rider — there is no way to get that insurance. We have created a 
program to do it, but more importantly, more tragic in my view, is 
the fact that we have such a hyper sensitivity to this subject. We 
have children getting off the camp bus at camp and saying to the 
camp counsellor “Don’t you touch me, you hit me and I will tell 
the camp director you are abusing me”. We have youngsters that 
are so familiar with the whole concept that it becomes their mode 
of thinking so that an arm around the shoulder or a hug or walk¬ 
ing with a child along the path and talking becomes a very pre¬ 
carious situation for a counsellor in our setting. And so we have to 
realistically talk about how do we express affection and com¬ 
munity and concern — so that it not only affects us litigiously in 



Camp Wahanowin 


17 







terms of our litigation but it affects us in terms of our humanity, in 
terms of what we are about as camp people and that affect we 
have not yet learned to live with totally — we are still struggling 
with that Our association set a hotline up for two years to deal 
with crisis situations that camp directors have in the summers 
and they can call us day or night and we will try to counsel them. 
We for two years have sent out letters and suggestions about how 
to screen the staff and how to deal with the situation should it 
arise and guidelines and we are working with the National 
Organization to develop a manual to help camp directors 
because we see it as something that is not going away. Then there 
is the whole issue of consumerism and that one I am sure you are 
familiar with — parents know more about what to ask these days, 
they know more what to expect and expect to get their money’s 
worth and if they don’t get it they know what avenues they can 
follow to get an answer about their money’s worth. Which means 
we have to be much more aware of how we write contracts and 
how we write registration material and how we write brochures 
and how we respond to that grumpy parent who calls us with 
complaints that doesn’t sound at all like it is grounded in anyth¬ 
ing but that Johnny didn’t like something at camp. But con¬ 
sumerism is a real factor, it has made us much more aware in our 
organization of ethics complaints — it has certainly made us 
conscious, I think, nationally of accreditation and certification. 
This really made us sit up and think about how well documented 
and how researched we do certain things. Our whole formal 
education system has affected and will affect camp. Great deal 
more emphasis on lengthening the year of the school year — 
starting earlier and ending later. Squeezing the summer a bit 
more and of course now that we have seen the third largest school 
system in the country go to year round education, year round 
school, we are a bit concerned because up to that point our whole 
response to that movement had been rather spotty and somewhat 
cyclical but now we are dealing with a much more serious situa¬ 
tion if that pattern begins to catch hold. And then we have the 
yuppies, the young, affluent, upward bound people who know 
where they are going, delayed having children until they are 
ready for them, who have money, who have position, who have 
very material goals and who may have children — know what 
they want for those children. And they have specific sorts of 
things they want to happen and they want them to learn about 
and money is not an issue and that has affected how we market 
and how we deal with parents. We have gone through a period of 
instant gratification over the 6 or 7 year period where you see it 
you get it, you want it you have it, if it feels good do it, and it is 
important that you do it now because you may not be here 
tomorrow. An attitude sort of thing and it is a very materialistic 
sort of approach to life and one that I think has permeated us very 
quietly and sort of subconsciously, but it has certainly affected 
our young people as they have come to camp. And when you have 
combined that with the sort of yuppie phenomena then’we find 
ourselves having to deal very much with expectations in terms of 
learning skills and being able to perform those skills before I go 
home. We have seen of course, a great increase in the number of 
specialty camps in our country — many of them relating to 
sports, art and music and many different sorts. We have even 
gone through that period when we had a blip of computer camps 
— well that was over with before that even started — but we still 
have lots of specialty camps and then we have seen our general 
camps that have often done lots of variety and say — we have got 
to compete with these people — everybody is going to the 
specialty camps. So we are going to set up a specialty unit and we 
will call our tennis program a tennis camp, we will call our bas¬ 
ketball program a basketball camp and we will get a coach in here 
for a couple of weeks that will spice it up and we will sell it that 
way in our brochure. And a lot more emphasis upon skills and 
upon the camper going home and being able to really dribble, 
really serve that tennis ball or whatever the case may be. Part of 
that grows out of that instant gratification and part of it out of the 
expectation of parents. Lots of pressure on non-profits in our 


society, lots of pressure related to their competition with private 
enterprise and a feeling that a non-profit organization shouldn’t 
do anything that a private enterprise is doing, we are really strug¬ 
gling with that right now. Government is looking for money 
everywhere, local government and therefore, property tax which 
has often been exempted for non-profits in our country are sud¬ 
denly finding themselves struggling with local governments with 
whether they have to pay taxes on their property or how much tax 
they have to pay. Great sophistication of communications just 
like you have seen, the children are constantly exposed to more 
and more variety, more and more sophisticated sorts of TV pro¬ 
grams and videos and skills and so forth in school and 
everywhere and suddenly when they begin looking at camp pro¬ 
motion or getting to camp their whole view of how we communi¬ 
cate has been somewhat desensitized because they have seen so 
much that they have trouble sorting it out. 

We talked about litigation, the whole willingness to sue and I 
understand that we have even passed that on across the border a 
little bit. That is unfortunate. But it has really affected us in terms 
of how we document things — it is almost impossible to insure 
some camp activities like trampolines, rapelling. Others are 
almost too expensive to talk about, horseback riding, ropes cour¬ 
ses, a variety of things that have some “risk” to them and many 
camps begin to look at the elimination of programs because they 
are too expensive to issue. They have too much risk for them¬ 
selves, too much liability for the camp, therefore, we won’t take 
that sort of wilderness trip or we will eliminate that sort of 
challenge program and that begins to affect the sort of experience 
the youngster has. Much of our increase in population is coming 
in the minority group, hispanic and black populations, two pop¬ 
ulations that have very little traditional cultural exposure to 
camping, no natural inclination to camping and where one has 
to start it from a different view point to try to help interpret the 
value of the experience. We have not been very sincere, I think, in 
our efforts to really try to recruit minority campers and to deal 
with those communities and that is an area that really, I think, is 
challenging our movement to begin to figure out how to deal with 
those cultures and try to involve those youngsters and give them 
an opportunity to camp. Certainly it is easier to travel and to com¬ 
municate internationally in the last decade — this has certainly 
affected us. And five or six years ago 8%-10% of our campers were 
coming from overseas. That is probably lessened a little bit with 
the problems we encountered in the South American economy in 
the last three or four years but we have a significant number of 
international campers, a significant number from Canada in 
some parts of our country and we find our camp directors are 
travelling to England, to Mexico to Europe, to recruit campers 
and it has become a significant part of our whole marketing and 
enrollment practices. It means that many camps are sending 
campers overseas, another chance to compete with the travel and 
with sophistication in terms of types of programs and this hangs 
on to campers a little longer. Of course, I have talked about the 
increase in international staff and that has been a drastic growth 
in terms of that particular trend. Technology, the whole technical 
advances in the last decade have certainly affected camping and 
probably the computer in camp is doing more to systematize 
marketing and promotion and business and buying and inven¬ 
tory and menu planning and that sort of thing than any one fac¬ 
tor has in that arena in a long time. Despite many efforts to use it 
in programming I think it is not a major factor yet but we are 
beginning to really see its usefulness and its chance to do some 
labour-saving and give us time for campers and promotion of 
other things by using it for some of these other methods. But 
technical advances have made an impact in the camping field 
and maybe in the attitude of campers because we find much less 
interest in outdoor programs with campers today, less interest in 
tripping, in backpacking, in traditional outdoor experience pro¬ 
gram, which is kind of frightening. Many of these affect the 
administration of camp but the thing that we do not talk about in 


18 




our country often enough is how these sorts of changes are affect¬ 
ing the lives of campers and how different campers feel and sense 
because of some of these things, not to speak of the nuclear threat 
and some of the other sorts of overwhelming attitudes that are 
prevalent in our society that a cemper brings to camp with them 
and we tend too often to treat campers this year as we did last year. 
That is another speech another time but it is something in the 
whole thinking of the trends and the future that we must not lose 
track of because it is not just us who are frustrated by the adminis¬ 
tration of camps in this period because of all this mish mash of 
stuff and in that frustration level we must not lose track of the fact 
that campers are being affected in less obvious ways, in less 
spoken ways. And that we must spend some of our time sensitiz¬ 
ing ourselves to that if we are to do what we are really about. Well, 
what does all this have to say for the future? Well, let me try a 
scenerio. About a year ago I had a camping section invite me to 
come and talk about camping in 2086.1 said, “Sure I will do that.” 
I can do that and say anything 1 want to and no one will come 
back to haunt me because I will be long gone and no one present 
will be around to say you said this. So that was kind of fun. Well 
this is the scenerio I came up with and I think it is much sooner 
than 100 years, I think it is more like 30 years — Jane and Johnny 
came to camp, arriving on the most modern vehicle of that day 
and at record speed. They are in camp in less than an hour after 
they left home even if it is 200 miles to camp from town; they are 
checked into the office where each camper is issued a wristband 
with a recognition code tied to the computer system in camp, 
each is assigned to a cabin group and assigned a robot — the 
robot accompanies the campers to the health service. Their 
health records have been sent to camp on a micro-chip, a health 
para-professional, not a nurse or doctor, uses a computer-type 
connected device which measures immediately the body tem¬ 
perature, the blood pressure and any physical abnormalities that 
exist in that camper's system that day. If there are problems the 
para-professional immediately books in the computer with the 
computer in the doctor's office in the nearest city, the doctor looks 
at the symptoms and at the vital signs and figures out what is 
wrong with the camper and transmits the next step to the para- 
professional. After the health check the robot accompanies the 
campers to their cabins, the cabin has a full bath, hot and cold 
running water, television camera, television, intercom, central 
heat and inner spring mattresses. After all this camp is used 12 
months of the year. No counsellor lives in the cabin, affecting a 
great salary savings, by the way, because the robot lives there. The 
camera and the wristband plus the robot gives a person sitting in 
the camp office full control over that cabin for he can monitor the 
signs of the camper and visually see what is happening and hear 
from the robot 24 hours a day and you do have to man that station 
in the office 24 hours a day but that is only three shifts. The new 
day is announced by intercom, certainly not by bugle and the 
robot is programmed to wake campers who sleep more than 5 
minutes beyond the intercom time. The robot escorts the cam¬ 
pers to the dining hall. Well, at the dining hall the campers are 
joined by a staff member who actually sits at the table and eats 
with them. However, the kitchen only has one or two staff mem¬ 
bers because there is no fresh food in the kitchen, fresh food has 



gotten so expensive because of world population pressures and 
so forth that everything is frozen, eveiything is microwaved, 
nothing is prepared in permanent type pans or pots, all food ser¬ 
vice is paper or plastic and at the end of the meal the robot comes 
by and picks up all, everything on the table and puts it in a bag 
and takes it down to the end of the dining hall, stuffs it into the 
waste disposal which shreds it and then burns it immediately — 
there is no waste to haul away and nothing to feed the pigs and so 
forth. So after breakfast everything is cleaned up without any real 
effort the robot will sweep the dining hall, no need for the cam¬ 
pers to hang around to do that and the cabin robot takes the cam¬ 
pers back to the cabin for cabin clean up, which won't take long 
you understand, and then the robot escorts the campers group to 
the program area. Well, the first part of the program period is 
spent with a video tape on a large screen giving them visual 
instruction in the skill which they are involved. But after the 
video tape, an active, live staff member joins the group and gives 
individual instruction and tips to the campers. Well, we could go 
on but I have a hunch my popularity has dropped immensely in 
the last three minutes and fortunately we did not have dinner 
here so there aren't many scraps on the table to toss this way. I 
hope that bothers you as much as it bothers me but I do not think 
that it is so far fetched. I do not think that it is so impossible, I do 
not think that it is so unlikely to happen. Why does it violate our 
view of camp? Why is the counsellor/campers relationship so 
special? Why is the small group critical to the camp experience? 
Why is the rosticity of camp implicit in what we do? Do we really 
know why? Can we really defend those things? Can we really 
make sure that they are important to what happens in the life of 
the camper and the staff member? What does all this say to the 
future if that is where we are heading? It says to me we have got to 
pay attention to the demographics of our society, we have got to 
look ahead and prepare for the changes in the numbers of cam¬ 
pers and in their attitudes and in their reactions to society. Secon¬ 
dly, we must know why we are in the camping business, we must 
know what we are about, why we exist and what our mission is. 
And your mission in your camp may differ from the mission in 
my camp but I have a hunch there are some common notes, some 
common strains. Heaven help us if we are all alike, but heaven 
help us if we have lost the common strain. We have got to know 
our mission and we have got to be able to interpret it to people 
who have never, never been to camp. And then we have got to be 
able to do what we say we are going to do. We have got to be able to 
demonstrate that what we say we accomplish and what we want 
to accomplish in camp, we do accomplish. We don't just put it on 
paper and advertise it and we have got to learn to staff effectively 
in a society where there are fewer persons in our traditional age 
group — where they want higher wages, where they have less ser¬ 
vice orientation, and yet at the same time because of the legal 
pressures and our concern about quality we have got to be more 
selective, we have got to be more careful about the calibre of per¬ 
sons we bring into the camp setting. Now there is a challenge! We 
have got to identify and interpret the values and the experiences 
of camp more effectively in a very comprehensive and glitzy 
society. We have got to learn how to say that this has real impor¬ 
tance for a child or for an adult. Can camping balance out that 



Camp Wahanowin 





experience which the camper is going to have in school in the 
future, where the once highly interactive life is dominated by the 
technical aspects of the education? There has got to be a chance 
for some balance to that I don’t know if you read Pooh Bear or 
not but you remember Christopher Robin said to Pooh, “What I 
like doing best is nothing,” and you remember Pooh said, “Ah, 
how do you do nothing?” and you remember Christopher said, 
“Well, it means just going along listening to all the things you 
can’t hear and not bothering ” That is what children need — a 
chance to hear the things they can’t hear and not bother. Time, 
time to escape the glitz and the high-tech and the pressures and I 
know only one place where that is afforded and sometimes not 
there. Can camping deal realistically with international educa¬ 
tion and with peace education? Can we really speak to what we 
understand about living together — after all the essence of what 
we do is learning to live together. Can we escape not applying that 
to the broader understanding of how we should live together as 
nations and as people who are different? Can camping really 
educate campers to a responsibility for their environment? For 
an understanding of the fact that the environment is tenuous and 
that we must take personal responsibility for it? We once thought 
that was critical but more and more we have let that become sim¬ 
ply the setting in which we do our thing. Can camping really pro¬ 
vide an experience in real decision-making? In risk-taking 
despite the dangers of litgation? Can we really help campers 
make real decisions where they can fail as well as succeed? Where 
they can take risk and feel the adventure and not always succeed 


and not fear that we are going to wind up in court 
Is there really a difference in camp and the daycare centre? The Y 
Adventure Club, summer clinics, summer school, the country 
club? Or can the parents say, I will send them to the closest or the 
cheapest one. Is there really a difference? I happen to believe 
there is and I happen to believe that the future can prove there is 
but I am sure that it only can happen if we take the responsibility 
of that We have a very real treasure that has been given to us, one 
we cannot easily set aside. A counsellor wrote a poem one year for 
me and gave it to me at camp and it is one I have come to 
appreciate more as the years have come on I think: 

I could not give you myself and so I have found a small 
round stone, warmed by the sun, warmed by the sun and 
the river I love. And when I gave it to you I took it won¬ 
dering, you took it wondering, seeing only a stone and 
not myself at all. You should look again, small round 
stones and selves are not given carelessly. The warmth 
of the sun and the grooves of the river should have told 
you that 

Camping in terms of campers and their lives has not been given 
to us carelessly. The tradition of camping and the heritage that we 
have inherited from those who preceded us has not been given 
into our hands carelessly. We should look more carefully at what 
has been given us, if we are to warm it under the sun and wash it in 
the river before we pass it on to those who follow us. That is 
our responsibility. 


ATTENTION CAMP DIRECTORS!! 

PLEASE SUPPORT CCA/ACC!! GIVE A GIFT SUBSCRIPTION OR 
ENCOURAGE YOUR SUMMER STAFF TO SUBSCRIBE TO YOUR 
QUARTERLY MAGAZINE. PLEASE HELP US GROW.... 



20 




Y.M. - Y.W.C.A. CAMP STEPHENS 

by GRANT PLATTS, SCOTT McGREGOR 
and JULIANE SCHAIBLE 
Winnipeg Y.M. - Y.W.CA. 

Y.M. - Y.W.CA Camp Stephens has been providing resident 
camping experiences for youth since 1891. It is one of the oldest 
resident camps in North America and has been continuously 
operated by the Y.M.C.A. of Winnipeg (as of January 1, 1987 — 
the Y.M. - Y.W.CA of Winnipeg). 

The camp is located on five islands, eleven kilometers south of 
Kenora, Ontario (200 kilometers east of Winnipeg) on beautiful 
Lake of the Woods. All major development has taken place on 
Copeland Island, the largest of the five islands. 

The focal point of the camp is Lount Lodge, a beautiful log rec¬ 
reation hall. The building was constructed from 1980 to 82 by 
camp staff utilizing locally-obtained logs. There are 33 other 
buildings on the property making for a very modern and com¬ 
plete resident camp facility. 

Camp Stephens operates a very successful outdoor education 
program for Winnipeg Schools in May and June of each year. 
The resident camp program, held in July and August, is for boys 
and girls ages 8 to 15. Camp sessions are twelve days in length. 
The Wilderness Adventure Program, for teens ages 13 to 17, is a 
highly regarded canoe tripping program. 

As the camp is located on an island many aquatic activities are 
highlighted. Camp Stephens has a strong canoe tripping tradi¬ 
tion and offers trips ranging from simple overnights for 8 year 
olds to six weeks in length for the most advanced Wilderness 
Adventure Program campers. The camp is fortunate to have 
unlimited access to thousands of square miles of crown land and 
waterways throughout Lake of the Woods and Northwestern 
Ontario. 

Camp Stephens is also well known for a well-developed sailing 
program. A fleet of 14 sailboats is utilized to provide campers of 
all ages with a progressive program of instruction. A kayaking 
program has also been in place for the past fifteen years and has 
proven to be very popular. 

One of the major program themes at Camp Stephens revolves 
around the area of international development department that 
serves as a valuable resource for this undertaking. 

The main focus of YMCAs and YWCAs is to meet the needs of 
their local community. As a network active around the world, we 
are acutely aware of what can be accomplished through global 
cooperation. In Canada, long-standing commitment has been 
made towards international understanding. Camp Stephens has 
pursued this commitment through promoting the link between 
global issues and camp life. 

The resident camp setting, with its emphasis on communal liv¬ 
ing and interdependence, is one in which people have thrived for 
decades. Its lessons are ones that we feel provide an enticing 
metaphor for the world beyond the camp gates or dock. For this 
reason, counsellors at Camp Stephens capitalize on oppor¬ 
tunities and give campers a forum in which to think about the 
world and what role they want to play in it. As well, specific inter¬ 
national programs have become an increasingly vital part of the 
camp program. Activities that are f rom or about other parts of the 
world bring an added richness to more traditional programs. 
This interplay is what makes it work. 

An example of how international themes can be utilized in 
regular camp program is the story. “A House is Built”, based on 
the founding of the United Nations. It is about a group of 
children who are always fighting over whose house they are going 


to play in. Each child wants the others to come over to his or her 
own house so that when they play the host can set the rules. The 
children fought about this so much that, at times, some of them 
would get hurt from stones that they threw at each other. One day, 
they decided to end the fighting by building a new house that 
belonged to all of them. They built with the stones they used to 
throw at each other. As they were building the house, they dis¬ 
covered that all the stones, even the smallest ones, were needed to 
build a house that was strong. 

This story has been used in younger cabin groups to solve a 
number of conflict situations. On some days even the best of 
groups have trouble working together. On such a day a coun¬ 
sellor could take his or her group to a quieter part of the camp and 
share the story with them. For some children it is easier to talk 
about feelings calmly through the eyes of the story characters. 
Once this discussion has developed, the campers have been more 
likely to talk about their own feelings and the group's problems 
and conflicts. 

A few well-placed suggestions from the counsellor and the 
group could follow up this story by building a fort, like the 
children in the story. In this example, the group has done some 
effective problem solving, completed a group oriented task, 
utilized some campcraft skills, and done some creative program¬ 
ming. All this from a story with an international theme. 

A mass day activity with an international theme is conducted 
once each camp session. As well as providing an opportunity for 
all campers and staff to participate together in a fun and exciting 
activity, the mass day provides an ideal forum for a continuation 
of the-camp’s international education program. 

A number of excellent simulation games have been compiled. 
They are used during the all camp mass days. Some are more age 
group specific and are utilized during section programming with 
the appropriate campers. Role playing is also encouraged with 
groups becoming citizens for a day of specific foreign countries. 
Resources are utilized in order to ensure the accuracy of national 
customs, costumes, foods, and the like. 

All Camp Stephens staff participate in a half day international 
session during the ten day pre-camp training period. Staff from 
the Winnipeg Y’s International Development conduct the ses¬ 
sion. Throughout the summer a staff person is assigned to coor¬ 
dinate the international program at both Camp Stephens and the 
Winnipeg Y’s Day Camp Manitou. 

Through camp international activities, an attempt is made to 
expand an understanding of the relationship between our local 
environment and the global community. As stated by the World 
Alliance of Y.M.C A’s, we do this in the hope “That All May 
Be One”. 

Camp Stephens is looking forward to celebrating its 100th 
anniversary in 1991. Plans are underway to contact Stephens 
alumni and invite them to join in the celebration of our cen¬ 
tenary. Any former Stephens staff member or camper should 
contact the Y.M. - Y.W.CA in Winnipeg to be kept up to date on 
centennial events. 


Le YM-YWCA Camp Stephens a fourni et continue de fournir 
depuis 1891, pour beaucoup de jeunes, I’exp&ience de vie de 
camp. C’est Tun des plus vieux etablissement du genre en Ameri- 
que du Nord. II a ete jusqu’en Janvier 1987 sous la tutelle du 
YMCA de Winnipeg, et sous celle YM-YWCA depuis 1987. 

Les preparatifs pour les celebration de son centennaire en 1991 
sont deja en marche. Les anciens, personnels, campeurs du camp 
sont pries de prendre contact avec le YMCA-YWCA de 
Winnipeg. 


21 






CAMPWIDE PROGRAM WITH 

MEANING 


Although two years old, the International Youth Year and 
National Camping Day of July 24,1985 provided a perfect exam¬ 
ple of an increasingly popular trend — that of combining the 
affective and coquitive processes with the fun and activity always 
present at camp. 

Read this article for the program ideas which it can provide but 
also for the principles which could and perhaps should 
underline your next campwide program. 

ONTARIO CAMP LEADERSHIP CENTRE 
CELEBRATES 

I.Y.Y and NATIONAL CAMPING DAY 

by DOROTHY WALTER, Director 
Ontario Camp Leadership Centre 
Ministry of Tourism & Recreation 

The idea of celebrating July 24,1985 as a special day for camp¬ 
ing and for I.Y.Y. was picked up with enthusiasm by our staff. As 
a result, “Bark Lake” experienced a day which was preceded by 
good cooperative planning and was celebrated through total 
involvement of campers, staff and local community. 

The group of staff who, under the guidance of the Program 
Director, deserve the greatest credit for planning, organizing all 
of us and implementing the day were our Program Assistants. 
These are the university students who have special responsibility, 
day-to-day, for program areas throughout the camp. 

The day consisted of four segments all of which were focussed 
on youth. During the late morning, discussion groups led by the 
resource counsellors were offered with the objective of showing 
the importance of youth and their influence on the future. From a 
large range of topics, these eight were given: 

* Environmental concerns * World hunger 

* World population * Drugs and alcohol 

* Camping in the future * Audiovisual influences 

* Education * After “Bark” youth's 

influence on the world 

Our I.Y.Y. lunch came next. At noon, everyone picked up a bag 
lunch from the dining hall and proceeded to Canoe Bay. We all 
knew our assignment to either a canoe, kayak or North Canoe 
and we had been briefed on our positions in the I.Y.Y. initials. 
Anchors with floats had been placed in key spots. The flotilla was 
launched and while a spotter in a tall white pine called directions, 
the boats gradually formed up. While everyone sang, ate, and 
enjoyed themselves, aerial pictures were being taken. It was a 
glorious blue sky, sunny day and it was with a touch of sadness 
that our I.Y.Y. pattern gradually disintegrated. In mid afternoon, 
the Generation Game was started. The purpose was to create a 
physically active game which would incorporate the themes of 
I.Y.Y. day, youth's place in society, the future and how it 
integrates and operates with other populations in our society. 
Rules, maps, teams, safety and boundaries were understood. 
Each team had tokens and the objective was to create a balance in 
the team of age and youth. Tokens represented YOUTH: energy, 
innocence, inexperience, impatience and for AGE: experience, 
wisdom, tradition, failing health. After the game there was time to 
discuss aspects of youth and age, whether the characteristics 
given to the youth and age teams were appropriate or stereotypi¬ 
cal and the need and or dependence of age and youth on each 
other. 


Ilya deux ans, le 24 juillet, 85, se tenait I’annSe internationale de 
la jeunesse et la journSe nationale de camping. Quelle meilleure 
chance de combiner futile a I’agrSable. 

A campfire program to which people from the community 
were invited ended this special day. We included a few ideas from 
the C.C.A. material but most of the songs, legends, etc. originated 
with campers and staff. After the closing song, a torch-light canoe 
“dance” drew people's attention to the calm water of Canoe Bay. 
The reflections added to the atmosphere created by the silently 
moving canoes. As they turned and headed away from the bay, 
the sky was lit by colourful firework patterns. This final event was 
a total surprise to everyone at the campfire but was our way of say¬ 
ing “thank you” to finish off a memory packed day. 

The ideals of camping, international concerns of and foryouth 
and fun were incorporated in the July 24th celebrations. It is still 
being talked about. 

Theme Meals: 

Breakfast: To highlight the French Canadian element ofCanada 
and of the Bark Lake Community, breakfast had a French Cana¬ 
dian flair. 

The French group was asked to lead the camp in a French 
grace to begin the meal, and a folksong afterwards. The LIT's 
from the bilingual group undertook this task enthusiastically. 
Their contributions were well received by the balance of the 
camp. 

Lunch: A picnic with a twist! 

It was our intent to plan a luncheon that would be different from 
the regular camp routine, enjoyable and contribute to the celeb¬ 
ration of youth. An outlunch on the water was planned. The 
entire camp was on the water in canoes and kayaks and 
choreographed “IYY” in Canoe Bay. An aerial photograph was 
taken to make the event complete! 

Procedure: 

The anchors were set out before the day of the event. Test runs 
were made to help estimate the necessary distance between 
anchors, a day ahead. 

— Resource Counsellors and LIT's were informed, ahead of 
time, of their position on the water. 

— A bag lunch was prepared by each participant. 

— Program Assistants were in crash boats to escort groups to 
their positions during the event. 

It was important to get an indication as to how the formation 
looked from the air. This was required before the plane and 
photographer went into action. This was achieved by having one 
staff member climb the white pine behind the Butt Hut. Informa¬ 
tion was relayed down to another staff member on the Butt Hut 
roof. They shouted out any changes necessary to the motorboat 
drivers. This flow of communication worked well. 

This was a challenge to choreograph, but a rewarding 
experience, all in all! 

Dinner: All camp was invited to come to dinner representing 
their interpretation of “Youth of the Future”. 

There was little enthusiasm for this component of the program, 
due to a number of reasons. People had been in the sunshine on 
the water for lunch and exerted much energy playing the 
“Generation Game” in the afternoon. People had little energy left 
for another theme meal. 


22 





23 



A PSALM OF PRAISE 

by WENDELL WHITE 
Director, Camp Quin-Mo-Lac 


Last summer the theme of our camp was “Who is my 
Neighbour”. It was our intent to create a Christian experience 
based on the United Church’s mandate “Dialogue with Native 
Peoples”. The task was far from simple. 

The immediate concern became — How do you create a sense 
of appreciation and understanding of a contemporary people 
while at the same time be sensitive to the subtle and not too subtle 
stereotypes? My personal objective surfaced instantly. No matter 
what was designed for the program in the traditional context, no 
child would leave camp without hearing or seeing, that native 
peoples in 1986, do not live in a tipi, nor do they wear a head dress 
or moccasins every day. Yes! as a matter of appreciation it is 
significant to know that native people do still use very profound 
impact on the cultural heritage. It is important that the children 
have the opportunity to make things which depict nativeness 
because these are the campy activities that the children have fun 
doing. Native culture certainly lends itself to the camp environ¬ 
ment and it is from this juncture that tremendous extended learn¬ 
ing and appreciation can be fostered. What a great opportunity to 
broaden the camp experience and to enrich the knowledge of a 
unique Canadian culture. 

What concerns me, as one who has been relatively active in 
native affairs for seventeen years, is that, so often native programs 
begin and end at the traditional level. Native programs, innocen¬ 
tly, often fall short of establishing native people in the twentieth 
century and consequently build upon the imagery of the noble 
purist conservationist, captured in a vacuum, more comfortable 
with the past than with the present. 



holism and identification of Indian nation by the head dress feathers. The 
young people in the background are dancers. 



made with the non-native people. 


I guess it is the recent lack of success at the First Ministers Con¬ 
ference on Aboriginal Rights (March 1987, the last of four such 
conferences) where native peoples, Indian, Inuit and Metis, were 
held at bay by the political brokers of this country that exas¬ 
perates me to speak out. The repetitive theme of the conference 
was reluctance. A reluctance which says, I don’t know and I don’t 
wish to know. A reluctance which fails to recognize that 
Indigenous people wanted to share, with some apprehension, 
this country three hundred years ago and still do, three hundred 
years later. Native leaders have eloquently articulated their 
desire to be full participants in confederation yet somehow 
Federal and Provincial governments have failed to meet the his¬ 
toric challenge. 

My point here is not to take the fun out of the camp experience 
as that is the essence of camp life for children. I guess I’m saying 
that the experience could be more if we would grasp hold of the 
opportunity to educate in small but meaningful ways, and reveal 
the legitimate aspirations of native people. To lay a stone which 
will allow native people to step into the present and be recognized 
as having many of the same values, career goals and ambitions. 
One of the first ways to achieve this is by first inviting a native per¬ 
son to your training week to discuss nativeness. Following the 
native speaker, your program will be greatly complemented by 
the use of native groups performing for the campers. A last word. 
There are many Inuit people out there who are extremely talented 
and who offer a fresh and exciting perspective to Native camp 
content. 

SWEET GRASS AND CANDLE 

Words by REV. JOHN W. OLDHAM 
Music by R. HENRY KILBORN 
and REV. JOHN W. OLDHAM 

Dedicated to the Original Peoples of this land put here by the 
Creator to live in harmony with nature and humanity. Written 
March 26,1987 following a Roman Catholic - Protestant service 
of worship attended by native and non native people to pray for 
recognition of native rights. 

SWEET GRASS AND CANDLE, 

THE PEACE PIPE AND BIBLE, 

THE STORIES OF ELDERS, 

AND BEAT OF THE DRUM, 

THEY ARE THE SYMBOLS OF TRUE FAITH AND 
JUSTICE. 

WE GATHER IN CIRCLE, 

AFFIRMING WE’RE ONE. 

WELCOME THE STRANGER FOR HE IS OUR BROTHER 
AND SHE IS OUR SISTER. 

OF MOTHER EARTH. 

CARE FOR CREATION FOR ALL LIFE IS SACRED AND 
WE ARE UNITED BY VISION’S REBIRTH. 

JOIN IN THE CIRCLE THAT WILL HAVE NO ENDING, 
FOR WE ARE ALL EQUAL AND LOVED IN GOD’S 
SIGHT. 

PRAISE THE GREAT SPIRIT! 

WE GATHER AS FAMILY TO SING OF LOVE’S FREEDOM 
AND DANCE WITH DELIGHT! 

WELCOME THE STRANGER FOR HE IS OUR BROTHER 
AND SHE IS OUR SISTER, OF MOTHER EARTH. 

CARE FOR CREATION FOR ALL LIFE IS SACRED AND 
WE ARE UNITED BY VISION’S REBIRTH. 


24 




Council fire program. 

A PSALM OF PRAISE 


by REV. DAVID SPIVEY. Visiting Chaplain 
to Quin-Mo-Lac 1985 
Relating to the Native Theme: 

“Who is My Neighbour" 


PRAISE THE LORD! 

Let the whole earth praise the Lord with a shout of Joy! 

All you trees and forests, 

PRAISE THE LORD! 

You owls that wing your way through the darkness of the 
woodland night, 

PRAISE THE LORD! 

All you Musk Ox that roam the white wilderness of the arctic 
north, 

PRAISE THE LORD! 

You lakes and rivers that sparkle your praise throughout the 
land, 

PRAISE THE LORD! 

All you Bears who trek the forests and fish the running 
salmon rivers, 

PRAISE THE LORD! 

You Turtles, solid, dependable and steady in the legends of 
human beings, 

PRAISE THE LORD! 

You rocks and crevices that catch the wind and relay its song back 
to the air again, 

PRAISE THE LORD! 

All you Eagles who soar the heights on your powerful wings and 
fly through the myths and legends of many peoples with great 
might, 

PRAISE THE LORD! 

You Foxes, stealthy, clever, cunning and beautiful to see, 
PRAISE THE LORD! 

You Seals who dive and play and sing in the great oceans of 
the earth, 

PRAISE THE LORD! 


You Ravens, dark and mysterious and wise, 

PRAISE THE LORD! 

The wind and the rain and the sun and the darkness of the 
night, 

PRAISE THE LORD! 

All you Wolves who roam and hunt and howl your praises, 
PRAISE THE LORD! 


You Buffalo, great and shaggy and powerful as you thunder 
across the plains, 

PRAISE THE LORD! 

And you Caribou who roam the land and enjoy the bounty of 
God’s green earth, 

PRAISE THE LORD! 


All you Campers and Counsellors, and CIT’s and Staff and 
visitors to this beautiful place who enjoy the special warmth and 
feeling and atmosphere of Quin-Mo-Lac, 

PRAISE THE LORD! 


Sing praises to the Lord who made us; give glory to our God who 
cares for us, shout aloud to the Spirit who brings us life and shows 
us how to live it to its fullest. 

All you his people, 

PRAISE THE LORD! 


UNDER OPEN SKIES 

Thanks to Eanswythe Flynn for 
'Thoughts and ‘Golden Rules for Easier Living 

If any little thought of ours 
Can make one’s life stronger; 

If any cheery smile of ours 
Can make its brightness longer; 

Then, let us speak that thought today. 

With tender eyes a-glowing 
So God may grant some weary one 
Shall reap from our glad sowing. 

GOLDEN RULES FOR EASIER LIVING 

1. If you open it, close it. 

2. If you turn it on, turn it off. 

3. If you unlock it, lock it up. 

4. If you break it, admit it. 

5. If you can’t fix it, call in someone who can. 

6. If you borrow it, return it. 

7. If you value it, take care of it. 

8. If you make a mess, clean it up. 

9. If you move it, put it back. 

10. If it belongs to someone else and you want to use it, get 
permission. 

11. If you don’t know how to operate it, leave it alone. 

12. If it’s none of your business, don’t ask questions. 

And I just thought of a couple more: 

13. If it ain’t broke, don’t fix it. 

14. If it will brighten someone’s day — say it! 


THE CAMP IS READY NOW 

The camp is ready now; it lies asleep 
Under the blanket of a star-bright sky; 

The winds are still; the waters cool and deep 
Reflect pine-scented mountains dark and high. 

The bunks are ready; the campfire circle now 
Lacks only campers singing round a fire; 

Yes, camp awaits the campers, with its joy 
Outspread to challenge, strengthen and inspire. 

And on the morrow they will come, these boys and girls 
Who are but listed names tonight to me; 

God, grant that I may help them satisfy 
The needs that in their hearts will waiting be. 

For one will come who needs, I know, to learn 
To live with others, give and take and share. 

And one will come, lost lonely one, who needs 
To know that others understand and care. 

And, surely, one small timid one will come 
Who here must learn to stand erect and sure; 

Another, burdened far beyond her years. 

Must find the peace and courage to endure. 

While all of them will seek, at camp, the fun 
Of games and laughter, friendships, and new skills. 

The joy of lake and campfire, bird and tree. 

New kinship with the fields and woods and hills. 

The Camp is ready now, it lies asleep; 

And I would sleep and, on the morrow, rise 
With wisdom, patience, gentleness to meet 
The challenge in my new-come campers’ eyes. 


25 





Wholesale Medical Supplies 

Medical Equipment 
First Aid Requirements 
Medicines 

Everything for post-operative and health care 

LOWER PRICES FASTER SERVICE 



26 








A FINAL SALUTE TO A FRIEND, 
MARY NORTHWAY 


by JOCELYN PALM. 


Mary L. Northway, MA, Ph.D., D. Litt. died on February 26, 
1987.1 write to tell you of the admiration many of us had for her 
over many years. The Achives at Trent University record the 
facts about her career. Dr. Northway attended North way Lodge, 
Camp Wapomeo, and Glen Bernard Camp. She founded Windy 
Pine, a canoe tripping camp with her friend, the late Flora 
Morrison. 

Fascinated by the science of psychology. Dr. Northway com¬ 
pleted an M A at the University of Toronto, studied at Cam¬ 
bridge, England then returned to U. of T. to complete her Ph.D. 
For many years, she was a lecturer at the Institute of Child Study 
and upon retiring, founded the Brora Centre in order to continue 
her work in psychology. Trent University recognized her with an 
Honourary Doctorate degree in 1979. 

Mary Northway s contributions to camping were unique. She 
emphasized the special values to a child of learning to enjoy and 
appreciate the natural world. At Glen Bernard from 1922 until 
1939, Dr. Northway was a camper and staff member. Several of 
her research papers were based on her studies of campers’ 
relationships in a group situation. At Windy Pine campers went 
on canoe trips with the emphasis upon the basic skills and the 
thrill of this type of adventure. This property was deeded to Trent 
University in 1983 as a centre for quiet study and relaxation. Dr. 
Northway organized some of OCA’s first staff training courses. 
She frequently spoke at workshops and conferences on behalf of 


OCA She established the OCA Research Committee and also 
engineered the collection and organization of the OCA and CCA 
Achives now at Trent University. She had a great memory for 
facts and as the OCA authors wrote “Blue Lake and Rocky 
Shore” she was often consulted for details on portions other than 
her own. 

In 1981, I interviewed Dr. Northway in order that the tape 
could be added to the CCA Achives. I have just listened to that 
tape and there are two outstanding aspects of Dr. North way that 
must be added to the facts already stated. Mary North way had a 
wonderful sense of humour which was revealed in her exploits as 
a camper, her creative programs as a staff member and her views 
on the world in general. She lived happily and with kindness 
towards others. The other wonderfully evident quality was her 
ability to let others learn and grow without being judgmental. 
When I became the director of Glen Bernard, Dr. North way said 
to me, “You’ll get lots of advice on how to run the camp and here’s 
mine ... Do your own thing”. I treasure that moment and the 
many hours we spent talking about camping. CCA members 
further benefited from Dr. Northway’s gift through Neathern 
Trust These funds are being used for projects which educate out¬ 
door leaders. 

Many contributions have been received by CCA in memory of 
Dr. Mary Northway, more evidence of the respect which she 
enjoyed. A camper, counseller, educator and researcher, she 
enriched our lives. 


WHAT’S IN A NAME? 


UN NOM... 
SON HISTOIRE 


CAMP STEPHENS (sti’vens) 

Originally known in 1891 as the Lake of the Woods Institute, 
the Y.M.C A Camp Stephens took its present name in 1896. G. F. 
Stephens, a successful businessman and the founder of the 
Stephens Paint Co., was a long time member and President of 
Winnipeg Y.M.C A The camp was named in his honour. 

For more information on Camp Stephens, see page 21. 

Many camps have documented their beginnings in booklet or 
pamphlet form. If you have a written history of your camp’s early 
years and particularly of the story behind its name, send it to 
“What’s in a Name” c/o the Canadian Camping Magazine, R.R. 
#1, Huntsville, Ontario POA 1K0. 


Camp Stephens 

C’est pour honnorer, G. F. Stephens, propri6taire prosp&re 
d’un magasin de peinture, Stephens’ Paint Co., qua I’on a 
renomm§ le Camp Stephens connu de 1891 a 96 sous lenpm de 
“Lake of the Wood Institute”, “PlnsBtut du lac de la forfif. 

M. Stephens a 6t6 membre et president du YMGA de Winnipeg 
(pour plus d'infbrmation, voir a la page 21). 

Ptusieurs.parmi vous, avez recueillf et pr£sent& de differdntes 
fagons I’hfstoire de Poriglne de votre camp (pamphlets, 
brochures). Si cette information est disponibie et que vous nous la 
faites parvenfr, nous nousferons unplaisirde lafaire paraltre dans 
notre chronique “Whafs in a Name” a/s Canadian Camping 
Magazine, R.R. #1, Huntsville, Ontario POA 1KQ. 


PLAN AHEAD!! 


Would you like to be a part of a neat new project of CC AACC? The Publications Committee is seeking photographs for a Monthly 
Planner to be produced and sold to raise funds for our Asociation. Can’t you picture your choice of photograph above one of the 
twelve monthly calendars? We are seeking a picture from each province, and we need it by October 15th, 1987. Send your entry, with a 
caption, to: 

The Publications Committee 
c/o The CCA Office 
1806 Avenue Road 
TORONTO, Ontario 
M5M 3Z1 


27 




WHAT’S ‘IN’ OUTDOORS 

EWIRONMENTAL PROGRAMS 


INSECT REARING CAGE 

by RUSSEL E. BACHERT JR 
& EMERSON L SNOOTS 
C. 1974, by the Interstate Printers and 
Publishers Ltd\ 

Purpose: To observe insect larvae as they are feeding. 

Materials: Sheet of clear plastic, acetate cement, cheesecloth, 

ties. 

Procedure: 

1. Cut plastic to desired size and roll to form a tube, gluing 
seam with acetate cement 

2. Glue or sew a cheesecloth sleeve to each end of the tube. 

3. Slide entire tube over branch and seal with ties at each 
end. 

4. Make several and place around limbs upon which different 
insects are feeding. Observe regularly and note any 
changes. 

5. Prepare a chart of daily or weekly changes of both plant 
and animal. 

Note: In direct sunlight, heat buildup in the tube may cause 
some damage. 

Questions: 

1. Can you make any associations between the plant and the 
insects you are observing? 

2. Of what value, if any, are the insects to the plant on which 
they were found? 

3. How does the daytime activity of the insect larvae differ from 
their nighttime activity? 



INSECT SIFTING BOX 

by RUSSEL E. BACHERT JR 
& EMERSON L SNOOTS 
C. 1974, by the Interstate Printers 
and Publishers Ltdl 

Purpose: To locate small insects among dry leaves. 

Materials: Medium mesh screen, show box, heavy thread, 

white cloth. 

Procedure: 

1 . Cut out the bottom of a shoe box, leaving a 1-inch rim. 

2. Using a wire cutter, cut screen to fit inside bottom of box. 

3. Gather litter and shake in box, holding it over a white cloth 
while shaking. 

4. You can sift out many kinds of small insects. Release them 
when finished with your observations. 

5. Use a wooden frame box with screen bottom when sifting 
sediment from streams and ponds to look for aquatic 
insects. 

Questions: 

1. Do the types of insects found in a field differ from those 
found in the forest? 

2. Can you develop a simple key to identify your insects? 

3. When are certain insects most active? 



CHEESECLOTH 


CLEAR 

PLASTIC 


SHOE BOX 



The Canadian Camping Association 

gratefully acknowledges a generous 
financial gift from: 


S. Gumpert Co. of Canada Ltd. 

Manufacturers of Pie Fillings, 
Toppings, Extracts, Gelatines, 
and Sauces. 

2500 Tedlo Street 
Mississauga, Ontario, Canada 


Thanks Gumperts! 




RESTORATIVE ECOLOGY: 
NEO-CONSERVATION 

by JIM HOPKINS, Chairman 
O.C.A. Environmental Concerns Committee 

A Review of Northern Illinois University's 
Spring Colloquium 

Laredo Taft Field Campus May 8-10, 1987 

The conservation movement in North America has been con¬ 
stantly changing over the past few decades. Early conservation 
practices spoke of resource management and the monetary value 
of natural resources. In later decades this philosophy of 
stewardship of the land was challenged by a “man with nature" 
attitude. The concept that nature was not ours to own was a 
foreign voice in a society with an environmental ethic that was 
dictated in a man vs. nature conflict. 

As time moves on, people grow and people s attitudes toward 
their environment change. Northern Illinois recently held a 
colloquium that dealt with the latest trend in the conservation 
movement-restorative ecology. While the name may scare some 
of us its meaning is very simple and quite useful to people in the 
camping profession. 

Definition: 

Restorative ecology is the conscious manipulation of a given 
ecosystem at a desired level of interaction with the surrounding 
enviros, resulting in a longterm availability of resources iden¬ 
tified at the beginning of the management process. The resources 
identified may or may not have some use to man. As a result this 
management method is very flexible allowing persons from 
various attitudinal backgrounds to use the same management 
tool. 


Example: 1967 Camp Restore was established. The camp had 
a huge meadow that provided an ideal site for playing 
wide games. 

1977 Camp Restore is doing quite well. Pioneer 
plants such as birch, aspen and pine inhabit the 
edges of the meadow. Tree growth goes unchecked by 
camp staff. 

1985 Camp Restore is faced with a program issue. 
The great meadow that it once had for wide games is 
now half its original size with the rest being a birch- 
pine forest. The habitat is suitable for environmental 
education, however, the camp no longer has a site in 
which to play wide games. 

Lesson: Your camp ecosystem is constantly changing. To 

ensure that the changes are desirable you as a camp 
director must think in an ecological, longterm 
manner. 

Next Issue: A brief “how to" approach on restorative ecology. 


Francophones... a I’aide 

La revue nationale sur le camping (C.C.M.) s’est engag6e & ser- 
vir tous les camps de I’Association. Tel que vous avez pu vous ren- 
dre compte, la plupart des articles sont tesurrtes et traduits en 
franpais. Nous faisons paraitre toutes les directives de I’associa- 
tion dans les deux langues et nous nous ferons un plaisir de 
traduire, sous demande, n’importe quel article. 

Nous avons besoin de vous. Nous voulons de vos nouvelles. 

Nous voulons savoir, en franpais, ce qui ce passe chez-vous. 
Vous avez du materiel francais, faites le nous parvenir. Nous nous 
ferons un plaisir de faire paraitre votre article dans la revue. 
Ensemble nous pourons partager et grandir. 


29 








WHAT DO YOU DO NOW? 

It’s early summer and the opening of camp is fast approaching. Almost all camper applications are in, your summer staff is hired and staff 
orientation is a week away and... (What do you do now?). That’s exactly what we at Canadian Camping were wondering. Are you a little 
superstitious or perhaps a creature of habit? Is there one thing that you must do each year before summer camp begins? Perhaps you like 
to re-read a particular book or see a certain movie. Is there a trip you must make before camp or a route you must drive to get to camp, 
complete with a stop at a particular restaurant or snack bar? Maybe you like to start off each season with a brand new clothing item: 
shoes, sweatshirt or hat On the other hand, you may have an old standby that you absolutely would never start camp without. 

The results of our informal national survey are in and, just as we expected, there are a wide variety of things going on across the coun¬ 
try in late June. Some are serious, some are not but they represent the leaders of camping in Canada hard at work, preparing for sum¬ 
mer. It promises to be an interesting year. Have a great summer! 


Visit camp alone in May 
and spend six hours on 
Saturday and Sunday 
watching birds and 
enjoying the birth 
of spring 


Take a last visit to 
my own private 
washroom 


Drive to Camp alone 
and listen to this year’s 
collection of conference 
tapes as a preparation 
for staff training 


Arrange for special items 
that must be ordered 
for staff 


Catch a final viewing 
of my favourite soap 
operas for the next 
two months 


Decide what to do 
with my pet 
cat — Tekila 


Find my camp hat with all 
the badges, my copy of 
Woodfire and Candlelight 
and room for everything 
(including two dogs and a 
cat) in the car 


Stop for ice cream at 
Clappison Corners 
on the way to camp 


Buy a summer stock of 
film and remember 
to take it 
to camp 


Buy a new pad and pencil 
— my best assistant 
for the whole 


summer 


Clean the Lodge, turn on 
the water 

Check the plumbing 


— Have a good shuddering case 
of the Lillies’ and a cry 

— Reconsider every detail of 
the summer and anticipate! 

— Have an uplifting heart to 

heart with head staff 

— Buy a pair of outrageous 

shorts 

— Find two hours of solitude 


Re-arrange the summer 
office and equipment 
making sure every paper 
cup is in place and all 
items in order 


Spend a week 
in the spa 


30 















Look what we are looking for — a new look in 
the CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE! 


.c PICTURES 

«' C •‘«t„ h ,, s 


Please send along the pick of your pix from the camping season. Camp 
Wahanowin and the National Music Camp did. You can see their photos on 
this page and throughout this issue. 





SEND PICTURES OF: 

SITES & FACILITIES 
CONFERENCES & WORKSHOPS 
MOOD & NATURE 
ACTIVITIES & PROGRAM 
CAMPERS & STAFF 


We are ready to use black and white prints and good con¬ 
trast colour prints, slides or negatives. 


SEND PICTURES TO: 

CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
R.R. # 1 

HUNTSVILLE, ONTARIO 
POA 1K0 


31 














POSTMASTER / MAIL CARRIER 

If undelivered after five days, please return copies to the editorial offices: 
CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
Canadian Camping Association 
1806 Avenue Rd., Suite 2 
Toronto. Ontario M5M 3Z1 


.' L- r 

MAITRE DE POSTES / FACTEUR 

Si non-IrvrA aprAs 5 jours S.V.P. retoumez les copies aux bureaux des Aditoriaux: 
CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
Canadian Camping Association 


1806 Avenue Rd., Suite 2, 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 


VO ti 


sws abb 



ij 

v> - 


V7 


> 

< 


“7 

I 


Mr. & Mrs. William Babcock 
Kettleby, Ontario 
Canada LOG 1J0 


British Columbia Camping Association 

1200 Hornby St. 

Vancouver, B.C. V6Z 2E2 
Phone: (604) 687-3333 


Alberta Camping Association 

c/o Y.M.CA, 332 6th Ave. S.W., 

Calgary, Alberta T2P 0R5 
Phone: (403) 269-6156 

Saskatchewan Camping Association 

c/o Saskatoon Y.M.C.A. 

25-22 St. East 

Saskatoon, Sask. S7K 0C7 

Phone: (306) 652-7515 ext. SCA 


Manitoba Camping Association 

Admin. Centre for Recreation and Sport 
1700 Ellice Ave. 

Winnipeg, Manitoba R3H OBI 
Phone: (204) 786-5641 

Ontario Camping Association 

1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
Phone: (416) 781-0525 

Association des Camps du Quebec 

4545 Pierre de Coubertin 
Montreal, Quebec H1V3R2 
HIV 3R2 

Phone: (514) 252-3113 


New Brunswick Camping Association 

P.O. Box 263 

Moncton, New Brunswick El C 8K9 
Phone: (506) 857-0203 


Nova Scotia Camping Association 

Box 3243 S. 

Halifax, Nova Scotia B3J 3H5 
Phone: (902) 424-4329 

Newfoundland and Labrador 
Camping Association 

Box 192 

St.John’s, Nfld. A1C 5J2 



OFFICIAL PUBLICATION 

OF THE CANADIAN 
CAMPING ASSOCIATION 


L’ASSOCIATION DES V OL 39, NO. i 

CAMPS DU CANADA - SUMMER 198 
PUBLICATION OFFICIELL E ISSN 0834325 


SUBSCRIPTION INFORMATION 

Canadian Camping Magazine is the official publication of the Canadian Camping Association. 
Editorial offices of the Magazine are located at R.R. #1, Huntsville, Ontario, POA 1K0. 

Membership in the C.C.A., as a result of membership in a provincial camping association, 
includes a subscription to the Magazine. Non member subscription is SlO.OO/ycar. Single issue 
price is $3.00. Make cheques payable to the Canadian Camping Association. Send subscriptions, 
submissions, or address changes to the editorial stafT. 

Canadian Camping Magazine is published four times yearly. Deadlines for submissions are 
October 1, December 1, February 15 and May 1. Material in Canadian Camping Magazine may 
not be reproduced in any form without the expressed written permission of the editor. Copyright 
1986 Canadian Camping Association. 

LES INFORMATIONS DE LA SOUSCRIPTION 

Canadian Camping Magazine est la publication officielle de I’Association des Camps 
du Canada. Les bureaux de la rAdaction se trouvent A R.R. # 1, Huntsville, Ontario POA 
1K0. 

L’adhAsion A I’AC.C., resultant de I’adhAsion A une association provinciate, indue une souscrip- 
tton A la revue. La souseription pour ceux qui ne sont pas les membres coGte $10.00 par an. La liv- 
raison coGte $3.00. Faltes les cheques A I’ordre de “Canadian Camping Association". Envoyez les 
souscriptions, les sou missions ou les changements d’adresse aux bureaux de la redaction. 

Canadian Camping Magazine est publte quatre fois par an. Les dates limites pour les 
soumissions sont le 1 er October, le 1 er decembre, le 15 6me fAvrier et le 1 er mai. Les articles dans 
“Canadian Camping Magazine" ne peuvent Atre reproduits sans autorisation de I’Aditeur. 
Copyright 1986 Canadian Camping Association. 


If you would like to receive a complete 
English translation of any article in 
Canadian Camping Magazine, send a 
stamped self addressed envelope with 
your request to Canadian Camping 
Magazine, R.R. #1, Huntsville, Ontario 
POA 1K0. 


Si vous voulez recevoir une traduction 
comptete en frangais d'un article dans 
Canadian Camping Magazine, envoyez 
une enveloppe timbrAe pour la rAponse 
avec votre demande A: Canadian Camp¬ 
ing Magazine, R.R. # 1, Huntsville, Ontario 
POA 1K0. 



COVER 

The Cover Photo depicts the fun and fellowship at summer 
camp. These are campers from Camp Sudaca, a day camp 
operated by the City of Sudbury, Ontario. 

La page couverture 

En page couverture, nous retrouvons de jeunes campeurs du 
Camp Sudaca, de la ville de Sudbury, Ontario. Elle repr£sente le 
plaisir et la fraternity. 


32 


— 





















