OFFICIAL PUBLICATION. OF THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 


CANADIAN CAMPING 



“Js>notu iMfee” 







To 
All 

Camp 
Directors 

We send our 

SEASON'S 

GREETINGS 

Your acceptance of our dessert products has made 
possible the further expansion of our manufacturing facilities. 

We have rryoved to our present factory at 3565 Dundas 
Street West where we will be better able to serve you. 

Please make note of the changes and accept our thanks. 


GIBBONS ~? U, 5ot SET DESSERTS 

Quality 

New Telephone Number - LY. 0101, Toronto 9, Canada 










EATON'S of CANADA 


EATON’S 

Campers wear these crests 
with pride . . . 

at camp, and afterwards too! 

At EATON S Camp Centre, we’ll 
make available to your campers, 
t-shirts and sweat-shirts bearing the 
crest of your camp. For information, 
write, call in person, or phone 
TR. 5111, EATON S Camp Centre, 
Main Store, Second Floor. 

The crests illustrated are those of 
camps which have made this service 
available to their campers . 


Toronto, Canada, December, 1954 


3 













Protection for YOU . . . 
Protection for Your CAMPERS 

Against LOSS—DISPUTES 

—ARGUMENTS 

Make it a requirement that all cam¬ 
pers' clothing and belongings are 
marked with 

WOVEN 

NAMES 

Mark camp linen, too, to avoid con¬ 
fusion and loss. Use either names, 
numbers, initials, or any special 
markings desired. 

At Dealers—or Direct from 

J. & I. CASH (Can.) LIMITED 

Belleville 32, Ontario 

Name: 3 doz. $1.80; 6 doz. S2.40 
Prices: 9 doz. $3.00; 12 doz. $3.50 


GUMPERT HAS EVERYTHING 



FOR THE FINEST IN FOODS 


GUMPERT 


HAS EVERYTHING 


S. GUMPERT CO. OF CANADA, LTD 
31 BROCK AVE., TORONTO ME. 3738 


For Your Resort 
or Camp . . . 

• Prompt and 
Reliable Service 

• A Wide Range of 
Products 

Fresh, smoked and ready-to-serve meats; Canned Meats, Fish, 
Fruits and Vegetables; Domestic Shortening; Tenderflake Lard; 
Margene; Butter, Eggs, Cheese; Poultry; Peanut Butter, Pickles, 
Olives; Jams and Marmalade; Soap Flakes and Toilet Soap. 
Prompt attention given all orders. 

We shall be glad to discuss how we can serve you best. 
Address: Sales Department, Toronto or Peterborough. 

CANADA PACKERS LIMITED 



4 


Canadian Camping 






















CANADIAN CAMPING 

Vol. 6 DECEMBER, 1954 No. 4 


CONTENTS 


Editor’s Preamble . 

Among Ourselves ...Lome E. Brown 

Testing Our Training Theories.W. E. Yard 

With a Tent in Foreign Lands.Bob Frood-Barclay 

Camping to a Crippled Child .Delwin McLennan 

Camp Time for the Diabetic ....— 

With the Tens and Elevens .Kay McClelland 

Progress in Programme.Barbara Cass-Beggs 

For Your Camp Library . 

Whoduzit? .W. E. Yard 


8 

10 

12 

13 

14 

15 

16 
18 
26 
31 


Credit for Cover Photograph: 

Courtesy of Gustav Anderson, Amityville, N.Y., and Canadian Nature Magazine 

Cuts by Ontario Society for Crippled Children 
and YMCA Camp Pinecrest 


CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 
Office: Room 407, 170 Bloor St. West, Toronto 
WAlnut 2-0151 


Honorary President 

A. L. Cochrane, Toronto 

Past Presidents 

Taylor Statten, Toronto 
Dais L. Gass, Montreal 
Anne I. Vail, Montreal 
W. E. (Ted) Yard, Toronto 

President 

Irwin Haladner, Toronto 

Vice Presidents 

F. M. VanWagncr, Montreal 
Mrs. J. FI. McDonald, Winnipeg 
Charles Roche. Vancouver 


Treasurer 

Clifford Labbett 

252 Snowden Avenue, Toronto 

Executive Secretary 

Eanswythe Flynn, Toronto 

Publisher , Canadian Camping 
Fred Haiblen 

170 Bloor Street West, Toronto 
Tel. WAlnut 1-3147 

Editor , Canadian Camping 
Eanswythe Flynn, Toronto 


“CANADIAN CAMPING” IS PUBLISHED FOUR TIMES A YEAR BY THE CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
CO. FOR THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION AT 170 BLOOR ST. WEST, TORONTO, ONTARIO. SUB¬ 
SCRIPTION PRICES: MEMBERSHIP IN THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION INCLUDES CANADIAN 
CAMPING: TO NON-MEMBERS. 50 CENTS PER COPY. SI.75 PER YEAR. S5.00 FOR THREE YEARS. 
AUTHORIZED AS SECOND CLASS MAIL. POST OFFICE DEPARTMFNT. OTTAWA. ONT. 


Toronto , Canada , December, 1954 


5 































proven 

NVcKEfACO 

products 


Keep your camp 


n i a 

with these ... 


• McKemco Machine Dishwashing 

Compounds 

• McKemco Hand Dishwashing Compounds 

• McKemco Glass Washing Compounds 

• McKemco Sanitizing Agents 

• McKemco Pots and Pans Cleaners 

• McKemco Insecticides 

• McKemco Washroom Supplies 

• Whitato Anti-Oxidant to keep Peeled 

Potatoes White 

• Anco Grease Trap Cleaner 


• McKemco Special Laundry Compounds 

• McKemco H.X.M. Cleaner Special 

Compound No. 15 

• McKemco Laundry Soap Powder 

• McKemco Laundry Foam 

• McKemco Sodium Hypochlorite Bleach 

• McKemco Paradichlorbenzine Crystals 

for Mothproofing 


also 

T* 


ANCO SEPTIC TANK CLEANER 

and ACTIVATER. For trouble-free operation of 
Septic Tanks and Drain Fields. Anco restores, 
waste-clogged tanks to normal efficiency . * .. 
eliminates odors and protects health. It keeps, 
any properly-built Septic Tank in top working 
condition. 


McKAGUE CHEMICAL COMPANY 


1119A YONGCSTREET, TORONTO 

and McKAGUE CHEMICALS (EASTERN) LTD. 

421 COURTEMANCHE AVENUE, MONTREAL EAST, QUEBEC 


Write us today for 
complete information orv 
any of these quality 


McKemco Products. 


6 


Canadian Camping 













. . . . Atth Mis name sljall tie raileh 
3®anherfitl, ©muisellnr, ©he ntigljtg 
Oiait, ©he everlasting father, ©tie 
prince of |3eace. 

Isaiah 9:6 




Toronto , Canada, December, 1954 



Cditot J Preamble 


About this time of year, a summer of 
camping falls into its proper perspec¬ 
tive. Directors and senior staff members 
reach that perennial point where they 
can take an objective view, look at the 
summer in retrospect, and begin to 
make plans for next year. 

How did last summer compare with 
others? Was it different? If so, what 
created that difference? A Trend, per¬ 
haps? Indeed, this is an age of Trends: 
the Trend to speed, the Trend to the 
suburbs, the Trend to sleek, bleak lines 
. . . we could note more. Is it credible 
that Trends have hit camping as well? 
Not so much in programme, let’s say, 
but in staff and its related problems. 

What of the trend in thinking . . . 
the attitude ... of some of the coun¬ 
sellors we employed? Has it been the 
experience of too many directors that 
young people are too eager to take over 
completely, to run their sections or 
activities without benefit of experience, 
without caution in some cases? There 
are instances where there has developed 
some disregard for the judgment and 
concern of older people who are in 
charge of camp or sections. 

Now, this is not to decry our students, 
or our graduates. Goodness knows, 
Canadian camp directors and section 
heads will vouch for their integrity and 
intelligence, their capacity for work, 
their aim to keep our camping at a high 
level; the majority, that is. But what 
of the few who seem to find their re¬ 
spective ways on to every staff, who 
want to take the helm, tell the director 


how to operate his camp, and accept 
camp rules on their own terms? They 
are, fortunately, in the minority, but 
one or two on a staff can ruin the entire 
morale . . . and eight weeks can be 
a long time. 

It would seem that in hand-picking 
our staff, we look too often only for 
perfection in skills, extreme efficiency 
in the teaching of an activity or craft. 
Once we find such a person, we hold 
on to him or her at any price. Do we 
pay too high a price? And are we apt 
to neglect this one most important fac¬ 
tor? Namely: that counsellor might be 
an expert ... a “crackerjack”, to use 
a camp term . . . but what does he 
teach our youngsters beyond the skill 
or sport for which he is employed? 
Usually he has a tent or cabin group 
of his own. How does he talk with them 
around the campfire or before Lights 
Out? Does he inspire or tear down? 
Does he teach his campers that the 
prize goes to the greatest bully by fair 
means or foul? Does he belittle and 
ridicule campers or staff? Does he 
highlight off-colour stories as general 
literary diet? Above and beyond all, 
what are his loyalties, his faith, his 
beliefs? Does his attitude indicate that 
camp exists for him alone? 

Results from camp training, on oc¬ 
casions, reveal a marked need, on the 
part of counsellors, for guidance. May¬ 
hap some of these young people are not 
ready to share in planning and govern¬ 
ing as we encourage them to do all 
summer. But isn’t it true that we are 
so afraid of “dictating” that we lean too 


8 


Canadian Camping 



far in the opposite direction? The prin¬ 
ciples of Democracy can be worn thin 
as they are stretched, and there comes 
a time in all staff organizations when it 
is wise that a director “tells” rather than 
“asks”; when his experience, his sense 
of caution, his alertness and awareness 
must serve to guide, must train young 
people as responsible adults to follow 
in his footsteps. Certainly there are 
many places in programme where the 
counsellor does proceed on his own 
initiative, but when it comes to water¬ 
front regulations, say, or camp policy 
or camp philosophy, then surely the 
director’s word is law. 

Within the memory of all of us are 
men and women, mentors and friends, 
whose wisdom encouraged, inspired 
and, at times, cautioned us as we set 
forth on our first, and many ensuing, 
assignments. Without these fine people 
in our lives, we would have been lost. 
They accepted our innovations, wove 
them in with their basic traditions. We 
believe this system to be just as sound 
as it ever was, and that today’s young 
people appreciate a positive kind of 
guidance and camp administration. By 
and large, they have little respect for 
neutral people. 


We \e 75diking, cAbout 

A thumbing through the memos on 
the various desk tops at the office pro¬ 
duced a fine showing of newsy notes this 
month. But because it’s closest to home, 
our change of address takes first place. 
We’re not very far away; still on Tor¬ 
onto’s smart Bloor Street West; tele¬ 
phone number’s still the same. But the 
Park Plaza is now our home, Room 407, 
170 Bloor Street West, as you will see 
from the title page. More space has 
been the crying need for lo, these many 
moons, but with it comes a boon we 


had only dared dream of in our weaker 
moments . . . elevator service! This 
year . . . any time ... if you’re 
Toronto-bound, ride up to see our new 
surroundings. We love company! 

Another few weeks will find us all 
together, anyway, at the Conference. 
The dates have been moved on to 
March 3rd, 4th and 5th, this year, to 
allow members of the American Camp¬ 
ing Association to be with us, and to 
allow members of the Canadian Camp¬ 
ing Association to attend the New York 
Regional Convention in Atlantic City 
on February 25th, 26th and 27th. 
OCA’s Conference will be held again 
at Central YMCA, 40 College Street, 
Toronto. Committee members are a- 
busy furrowing the brows. Results later. 

There’s reason aplenty for a bit of 
back-patting for two or three members 
of this Association. Firstly, to your 
former Executive Secretary, Miss Joyce 
Bertram, on the announcement of her 
new position as Director and Owner of 
Camp Ouareau, in the Laurentians, to 
succeed Miss Dorothy Percival. Our 
felicitations go two ways: to Miss Per¬ 
cival for many years of success in direct¬ 
ing one of Canada’s finest camps for 
girls; to Joyce because we know she will 
carry on the traditions as she builds and 
expands the camp in her own very 
efficient and wise manner. 

Puffed up with pride we are, over 
another active member, Miss Margaret 
Govan. Marg’s book “The Trail of 
the Red Canoe” has just come off the 
press and is reviewed in our Library 
Shelf Department. It’s her lively and 
entertaining way we like, in her writing 
and in her work with your Editorial 
Committee. It’s a pleasure to say, very 
sincerely, “Congratulations!” from all 
of us. . 

(continued page 25) 


Toronto, Canada, December, 1954 


9 


AMONG OURSELVES 


J£o\ne £* J$roivn } Past President , B.C. Camping Association 
Director of Physical Education , Provincial Normal School , Vancouver 


Moorecroft Camp for Girls was born 
one summer evening nearly three de¬ 
cades ago, when Mary Edgar, Director 
of Camp Glen Bernard, asked one of 
her counsellors to go for an evening 
stroll after a busy day. Ak a result of 
that quiet chat between the First Lady 
of Canadian Camping and a young 
enthusiastic counsellor, the first Private 
Camp for Girls in British Columbia was 
opened 12 years later. That young 
counsellor was Gertrude Evelyn Moore 
(Dinty to her friends) who, through 
her own determination and enthusiasm 
for camping, opened Moorecroft in 
1934, and in 21 years built the organiza¬ 
tion into one of the finest Girls* Camps 
on the Pacific Coast. 

Let us look at “Dinty** Moore, one of 
the real pioneers in Camping in B.C. 
She was born in Toronto (for which 
we have forgiven her), attended Park- 
dale Collegiate Institute and the Mar¬ 
garet Eaton School, where, as an out¬ 
standing student, she won the Matilda 
Rogers Scholarship two years in succes¬ 
sion, and on graduation was awarded 
the Dorothy Scott Raff Optima Prize 
for “diligence to work and thoughtful¬ 
ness for others*’. Incidentally, this 
talented and promising leader showed 
her versatility when, in her graduation 
year, she won a prize for Shakespearian 
Interpretation. Some day we must have 
Dinty give us a bit of Shakespeare. 

After receiving her Diploma at Mar¬ 
garet Eaton, she was appointed to the 
staff of the same school where she work¬ 


ed for several years. Time does not per¬ 
mit a detailed account of Gertrude’s 
activities for the next few years, but a 
summary will be enough to show that 
here is a woman who has had a wide 
and varied experience in the field of 
Physical Education and Youth Leader¬ 
ship. She taught for almost ten years 
at Central Technical High School in 
Toronto, and started her camping 
career as Sports Counsellor at Camp 
Couchiching for the National Council 
of the Y.W.C.A. Later she moved west 
and became Director of Physical Educa¬ 
tion for the Vancouver Y.W.C.A. After 
a period here Gertrude returned to 
Toronto where she was appointed 



10 


Canadian Camping 



Director of Recreation for Women at 
the T. Eaton Co. as director of the 
Eaton camp for business girls at Shadow 
Lake. The west coast called again and 
she came to B.C. to become the first 
Director of Physical Education for 
Women at the University of British 
Columbia. Prior to coming west she 
took several courses in Physical Educa¬ 
tion at Harvard University, and several 
courses in Camping sponsored by the 
American Camping Association. 

By this time Gertrude was becoming 
increasingly aware of the need for 
Camps in B.C. Uppermost in her mind 
was the idea that had been planted 
there by Mary Edgar back at Camp 
Glen Bernard where she had been 
Sports Counsellor for many years. The 
great day came and in 1934 Moore- 
croft opened its first Camping season 
on 75 acres of beautiful wooded land 
on the east coast of Vancouver Island 
overlooking the Straits of Georgia and 
the snow clad mountains of the B.C. 
mainland. Here, year after year for 21 
years, girls, and later, boys, participated 
in a Camping programme of swimming, 
boating, campcraft, riding, nature-lore 
and all the other activities related to a 
simple life in the out-of-doors. Ger¬ 
trude, or Dinty, we should say, has al¬ 
ways felt that Camping should take the 
child close to Nature and natural things, 
and that philosophy has always been 
reflected in her own Camp activities. 
Her buildings blend with nature, her 
special retreats and programme centres 
are kept simple and in tune with the 
beauty around them. To Dinty the 
Camp experience must be unique and 
different and natural. She does not 
include city-centred activities in her 
programme. 

Gertrude Moore has always been ac¬ 
tive in the professional organizations 
related to the field of Physical Educa¬ 
tion and Camping. She was on the first 


executive, when the B.C. Branch of the 
Canadian Association for Health, Phy¬ 
sical Education and Recreation was 
formed. She was instrumental in the 
formation of the B.C. Camping Associa¬ 
tion and was its first President in 1939. 
For ten years she held executive office 
in this organization and during that 
time many advances were made in 
Camping in this province. The most 
important of these was the drawing up 
of standards for Camping in B.C. re¬ 
quested by the provincial government 
and later used as a basis for licensing 
summer camps in the province. Ger¬ 
trude played a prominent part in draw¬ 
ing up these standards. Later, she was 
named Honorary President of the B.C. 
Camping Association. During the years 
she has been a qualified examiner for 
the Royal Life Saving Society and has 
had her Camp one of the top qualifiers 
in water safety awards. 

It has been a pleasure to have known 
Gertrude Moore over the past years and 
to have worked with her in both the 
Camping and Physical Education fields. 
It can safely be said that her enthusi¬ 
asm, instead of waning over the years, 
has continued to grow. Her only regret 
is that Camping for the youth of this 
province has been so slow to develop. 
If she had her way, every boy and girl 
in Canada would have an opportunity 
to spend some part of each year in 
Camp. She hopes that some day Camp¬ 
ing will be included in the curriculum 
of the public schools. Certainly, Ger¬ 
trude has done much in pioneering this 
field to prepare the way for this to 
happen. 

To Gertrude Evelyn (Dinty) Moore 
we, as Campers and people interested 
in Camping say “HOW, HOW”, which 
is the Camp Elpinstone way of saying 
how much we appreciate your contribu¬ 
tion to this important phase of Canadian 
Life. 


Toronto, Canada, December, 1954 


11 


Testing 

Our Traiaiap Theories at the 
Y3MCA Camp Directors Semiaar 

W. E. (Ted) Yard, 

Director, Camp Pinecrest. 


Certainly we knew that on-the-job 
training was the only training that 
would count! We knew, too, that train¬ 
ing at the senior staff level was the only 
practical way to substantially upgrade 
our whole leadership picture; but how 
could we ever hope to have directors 
and senior staff members from different 
camps meeting together with an oppor¬ 
tunity to put theory to the test with 
camper groups? 

Ten men and two women represent¬ 
ing camps from Saskatoon to Kingston 
did meet in an “in-camp” seminar at 
Toronto YMCA’s Camp Pinecrest from 
August 23 to September 2 this year. A 
one-week camp period—the ninth week 
in Pinecrest’s boys’ camp summer, pro¬ 
vided the setting for relating “theory” 
to “practice”, and Ron Perry, outstand¬ 
ing Canadian educator and camper, 
came from Ottawa to act as discussion 
leader. 

Two full days were spent in “orienta¬ 
tion” ... to the camp, to one another, 
and to the whole process of an “on the 
iob” seminar. In this period, too, 
there were some discussions related to 
specific areas of camp administration. 

Next came seven days (and most of 
seven nights) when every conceivable 
phase of camp work was thoroughly 
explored. In certain instances it was 
felt important to “try it”. For example, 
a discussion on “cabin group program¬ 


ming” would be followed by an after¬ 
noon with a cabin group and an even¬ 
ing session to evaluate the earlier discus¬ 
sion in view of the practical considera¬ 
tions encountered when actually with 
the “cabin group”. A similar procedure 
was followed with “interest or instruc¬ 
tion groups”, with “waterfront”, and 
even with “overnights”. Yes, these were 
actual situations, not “ideal” or “hypo¬ 
thetical” ones . . . when our ten semi¬ 
nar men were out simultaneously with 
ten different overnight groups . . . 
it rained all night! 

Everyone shared in the discussions; 
and over in the somewhat remote sec¬ 
tion of camp, set up as seminar head¬ 
quarters, informality was the keynote. 
Whenever he might have reason to wan¬ 
der through the main sections of the 
host camp each seminar member found 
himself looking in a friendly-critical way 
through eyes keenly alerted by intensive 
discussion . . . 

“wonder why that building was located 
there . . .” 

“wonder how their food cost is . . 

“wonder if that laddie would have 
more fun if . . .” 

“wonder if that would work back 
home . . .” 

“wonder how that youngster knows 
my name . . .” 

“wonder if I can comer Syd to see 
what he thinks about . . .” 

(continued page 30) 


12 


Canadian Camping 



With a Tent 


in Foreign Lands 

Bob Frood-Barclay, 

Formerly editor of “Camping and Outdoor Life” 


In countries throughout this funny 
old world there are millions of young 
people—and that does not necessarily 
mean young in age—to whom camping 
and its official clubs can be of service. 
My primary aim in this article is to 
show you how these young folk have 
an easier—and if you like, more pleas¬ 
ant—way of seeing foreign lands which 
they might otherwise be unable to do. 

Surely this is a worthy aim, for travel 
and intermingling with young people of 
other lands (be they young in age or 
heart) can do much to solve the many 
intricate problems of this queer world 
we live in to-day. 

Campers throughout the world can 
help to bring nations together in good¬ 
will and if I can help them to do it more 
easily then I shall be quite happy. 
Having once been young (pause for 
modest cough!) I know how young folk 
feel—their ways, hopes and desires— 
and I know that campers are, natur¬ 
ally, interested in travelling for the sake 
of it. 

What a very happy carefree holiday! 
Campers have the key to the finest, 
cheapest and most enjoyable way of 
seeing foreign lands; of intermingling 
with young people of other nations, get¬ 
ting to know their way of life and gen¬ 
erally having a thundering good time. 

God’s good air is free, remember. 

Fine, but what of the many diffi¬ 
culties, you may ask; and far be it from 
me to try to stop you! 


Camping in Europe does not really 
present the great difficulties which some 
imagine. It is just a case of common 
sense. Every country has a camping 
club and in the majority of cases these 
are affiliated with the “International 
Federation of Camping and Caravan¬ 
ning”, 218, Boulevard Saint-Germain, 
Paris 7, France. 

Much benefit and helpful advice can 
be had by joining one of these national 
clubs—and through them the Inter¬ 
national Federation—and this will make 
your holiday under canvas much easier. 
Clubs in other lands will give informa¬ 
tion if you show your I.F.C.C. card; 
or, if writing to them, on quoting the 
membership number. 

For example, the Camping Club of 
Great Britain and Ireland which is the 
founder member of the International 
Federation, gives helpful advice on trips 
abroad—with special advice for cyclists, 
canoeists and mountaineers. It supplies 
its members with leaflets which give 
information on travel, currency and 
regulations in various countries. Every 
year it organises parties by coach, train 
and air at special travel rates; these 
special rates alone make membership 
really worthwhile. Cyclists can see Bel¬ 
gium, Denmark, Brittany and Norman¬ 
dy—the walker can enjoy the delights of 
Switzerland and the Alp-country, and 
the wonders of Portugal and Bavaria 
and it all ensures a terrific welcome 
from the clubs of those countries, mem¬ 
bers of which meet and guide visiting 
campers and even arrange special 
camps of welcome. 

(continued page 29) 


Toronto, Canada , December , 1954 


13 









T)he Value of} Camping, 

ZJo a Crippled Child 

Delwin McLennan, 

Programme Director, Blue Mountain Camp. 


What about these camps for crippled 
children? What can they do? Do the 
campers participate in any of the regu¬ 
lar camp activities? What is accomp¬ 
lished at a camp such as this? 

, These were some of the questions 
which naturally came to mind when 
it was first suggested that I spend the 
summer working at a camp for crippled 
children. In the summer months that 
followed I found some of the answers. 

Blue Mountain Gamp, six miles west 
of Collingwood, is only one of five 
camps operated by the Ontario Society 
for Crippled Children; and it was a 
surprise to learn that in this one alone 
about two hundred and seventy-five 
children are given a camping experi¬ 
ence as near normal as it is possible to 
give. As in other camps, regular pro¬ 
gramme is organized in activity groups; 
and these groups are based on the ability 
and interest similarities of the campers. 

Some of the campers are in wheel 
chairs. At the outset of camp, they are 
in one group, but as their interests 
broaden they request a move to others, 
and if the staff feels such a move is 
wise, they go where they want to go: 
to crafts swimming, music, sports, 
hiking groups, dramatics, toy soldiers, 
castle-building, campcraft, and so on. 

When the Senior groups were in 
camp, afternoons were devoted to in¬ 
terest groups; that is, the campers de¬ 
cided individually the activity each one 
would like to follow. It seemed so im¬ 
portant to stress each child’s individual 


development, for one important reason: 
in numerous cases, the idea of deciding 
a course of action for themselves, and 
in some cases even evaluating that 
course, gave them a confidence and 
feeling of security they might never 
have felt before. 

To give some idea of the scope of the 
programme: interest groups for the 
girls consisted of swimming, crafts, 
grooming, square dancing, writing a 
camp newspaper. For boys: campcraft, 
swimming, crafts, group sports and their 
part of the newspaper work. On many 
days, a general swim concluded the 
afternoon’s activities. 

To make more extensive mention of 
swimming: It must be remembered 
that this is one of the really big events 
at camp. Blue Mountain is fortunate 
in having a heated pool, which means 
that swimming can be included every 
day. When the Senior Boys were in 

(continued page 22) 



In the Blue Corner . . . 


14 


Canadian Camping 









Ct 


amp 


ZJime 



the Jbiabetic 


When we speak of camping in Can¬ 
ada or the United States, or anywhere 
in the world, for that matter, we think 
and plan mostly in terms of “normal” 
people. We continually refer to the 
active child, the healthy child, the aver¬ 
age boy or girl. But don’t we forget, 
sometimes, that everywhere about us 
are those whose activities are curtailed 
through physical limitation? Crippled 
children, polio cases, T.B. patients, have 
camps of their own; the blind, the deaf, 
the deaf-mutes fare not so well. But we 
are now to learn more and more of the 
advantages offered to diabetic children 
and adults through camping. 

Canada, at the present time, main¬ 
tains two such camps: Illahee Lodge, at 
Cobourg, Ontario, supported by the 
Kinsmen Club, and Kiwanis Camp 
Banting on the Ottawa River. In the 
United States, twenty-five camps in all 
parts of the country open their gates 
only to diabetic boys and girls, men and 
women. Some charge on the ability of 
the patient to pay; regular fees range 
from approximately $17 to $50 per 
week. Camp Banting (Ottawa) charges 
$25 per week, subsidized by the Kiwanis 
Club of Ottawa. Illahee’s rates vary 
with ability to pay. 

Applications come from all parts of 
Canada, and there are plans in the wind 
for other camps of this kind in the 
Maritimes, Saskatchewan and Alberta. 

The camps have a dual purpose: fun 
and education. But even the education 
is fun, for it is treated like a game, and 
the children enjoy it. They are taught 
to administer their own Insulin, to make 
their own tests, mark their own charts, 


under t^ie supervision of the registered 
nurse and the doctor. Campers are 
taught to know their own diet, to line 
up and ask for their own meal from the 
chef; and all this goes on under the keen 
eye of the dietitian. In this way, they 
learn respective food values, the import¬ 
ance of a properly balanced diet and 
regular routine. 

During the two-week camp period, 
doctors who specialize in the treatment 
of diabetes give lectures on Insulin, 
Diet, and Diabetes in General. The 
question-and-answer periods are thor¬ 
oughly enjoyed by the children, and 
doctors are amazed when these young 
folk come through with the toughest 
kinds of questions. Programme lasts 
about an hour, and is conducted in a 
very informal and easy manner. 

Facilities for swimming, games, na¬ 
ture hikes and other general outdoor 
camp activities become part and parcel 
of the camp programme, while stunts 
and sing-songs in the friendly glow of 
the campfire always precede the nightly 
snack. Participation in skits and square 
dancing is encouraged, while leather- 
craft and wood carving fills the morning 
or afternoon at other times. 

Actually, these children can partici¬ 
pate in normal camp routine if the doc¬ 
tor permits. Overnights, fishing trips, 
hikes, boating, swimming, and so on. 
can all be included, providing of course 
that each meal is drawn up by the 
dietitian. Campers are under constant 
medical supervision, so that proper rest 
is maintained and the general condition 
of the campers guarded. When camp 

(continued page 24) 


Toronto, Canada , December , 1954 


15 










In any camp section where the ten- 
and eleven-year-olds live, we find a 
group of campers who have graduated 
from the close supervision of Junior 
Camp, yet who are not quite ready for 
the privileges and responsibilities of 
Intermediate Camp. Keen, interested, 
active and enthusiastic, they are a chal¬ 
lenge to any leader. In this brief article, 
we shall look only at the ways we can 
enrich the daily programme of this 
particular age group. 

Firstly, leaders should study the places 
in which responsibility can be safely 
given over to the campers. Leaders 
should try to skilfully develop within 
each camper a feeling of responsibility 
to himself, his home, the camp and 
others. Little duties such as that of 
tent leader, delivering the mail, lining 
up ‘‘Buddies”, reading the day’s pro¬ 
gramme, all help the child to develop 
into a responsible citizen and camper. 
Later on in the season, when the camp 
programme is running smoothly, situa¬ 
tions will arise when the children or 
their representatives may plan some of 
their own activities. It is indeed sur¬ 
prising to see such wonderfully fresh 
and interesting ideas come forth! 

Music is most important and a be¬ 
loved activity at this age. The children 
love sitting around a piano in a lodge 
singing the songs of far-away lands and 
those of our own vast country. “The 
Scudd Jiggin’ Ground”, and “The Can¬ 
adian Boat Song” are excellent ex- 


WITH THE TENS 

AND ELEVENS 

Kay McClelland, 

Section Head , Camp Oconto . 

amples, and there are many more. We 
should remember we are camping in 
Canada, so why not sing about it? 

Evening campfires are also old 
favourites. Here enters a different type 
of music. Rollicking rounds with silly 
words and actions should be included: 
“Why Can’t My Goose”, “Little Tommy 
Tinker”, “Indians Are High-Minded”, 
name but a few. The beautiful melo¬ 
dies and words of “Peace I ask of thee, 
oh, River”, and “Land of the Silver 
Birch”, find the perfect setting in a 
campfire programme. Often a child’s 
most cherished memory of camp is the 
beauty of a flickering fire and the strains 
of an evening vesper, “As the Shadows” 
or “Taps”. 

Music finds its place also in the form 
of competitions which the children 
thoroughly enjoy. Have each tent or 
cabin group write a song about their 
own group, section or the camp. The 
time limit is a week, at which point they 
will be presented at a special evening 
programme. Many hidden talents, or 
the blossoming of them, produce amus¬ 
ing ditties and often songs of deep 
feeling. 

To the question, “What games do 
our children enjoy?”, one may answer 
in all truthfulness, “Everything!” 
Scavenger Hunts, Relay Races of all 
types, Basketball variations, Charades, 
Circle Games in endless variety, every 
kind of Tag game, Hide-and-go-Seek, 
those will start the imagination working. 
Where does one learn of all these games 


16 


Canadian Camping 


and how to play them? The Public 
Libraries have what they call Recreation 
Departments whose shelves hold a 
wealth of ideas in books; and they may 
be borrowed on special arrangement for 
the whole summer. 

We cannot lose sight of the impor¬ 
tance of Indian Lore to this age group. 
It seems to stimulate the imagination 
now more than at any other time in 
their camp lives, and at the same time 
it is educational, challenging and inter¬ 
esting. Present the children with the 
problem of planning an Indian Pow- 
Wow or Council and watch the fun and 
the flurry of activity. For days on end 
costumes and head-dresses will be in 
the making, with great care devoted to 
detail and accuracy, and the learning 
of tribe names. A site must be chosen, 
chiefs and witch doctors found, books 
thumbed through for Indian Legends 
to be acted out. Finally, the big night 
arrives and an impressive ceremonial 
unfolds in true Indian fashion. 

A solid foundation for future camp 
tripping is laid at this level of experi¬ 
ence. The ten- to eleven-year-old is too 
young to participate in the strenuous 
activity of a long canoe trip. He is not 
physically able to paddly great distances, 
carry canoes or sleep out for several 
nights, nor is he mentally mature 
enough to plan ahead, to be automatic 
in his reaction to certain camp-tripping 
situations, or to stand the general strain. 
He is, however, at the perfect stage to 
prepare for these adventures which, in 
our camp, are confined to Intermediate 
and Senior Camps (twelve- to seven- 
teen-vear-olds). 

On the other hand, Sunrise Bren 1 '- 
fasts, dav and evening hikes with cook- 
out privileges, provide the campers with 
valuable experience. They may learn 


to use a hatchet, cook over a fire, paddle 
a canoe, set up camp and many other 
features of tripping . . . including 
their first training in tidying up the 
camp site for the next-comers! 

At this age, we find opportunity to 
stress Safe Camping. Up to this time, 
as Junior campers, they have been told 
not to go near the water except with 
counsellors, they have been cautioned 
here and there, and a counsellor has 
made sure the campers have obeyed. 
Now, although counsellor supervision 
must still be in effect, they learn to 
reason and to see the “why-for” them¬ 
selves. They realize why they do not 
stand in a canoe, or go to the waterfront 
alone, why they must take their activi¬ 
ties seriously at times. 

A clean-up programme of their own 
camp section will produce concrete evi¬ 
dence of your encouragement for safety. 
Not only will glass and paper be picked 
up, but roots and low branches will be 
removed, stones rolled away and holes 
filled in. The campers will learn to be 
aware of unsafe procedures and inci¬ 
dents. Safety First at all times must be 
encouraged and stressed. 

To me, this age group is the most ex¬ 
citing and satisfying of all camping 
groups. Enthusiasm, spirit, energy and 
imagination are limitless, and I love it! 




Riding instructor to new camper: 
“Do you think you’ll be interested in 
the roan?” 

Camper: “No, thanks. It’s ridin’ I 
come fer, not rowin’.” 


Toronto , Canada , December , 1954 


17 



PROGRESS IN PROGRAMME 


This month 3 s contribution “Sunday Programmes at Camp 33 , comes from one 
familiar % to those in camping circles, Mrs. Barbara Cass-Beggs, L.R.A.M., 
A.R.C.M., Director of Music at Camp GayVenture, and formerly music director, 
University Settlement Music School and Music Camp . 


Most of us feel that we want Sunday 
to be different. Yet by the time we 
come to Sunday evening it is not always 
easy to think up a programme which is 
different, in the sense that it is of some 
religious and educational value, with¬ 
out being consciously so, is creative, has 
a feeling of atmosphere, and above all, 
holds the interest and attention of the 
Campers. 

At Camp, we have always worked 
hard to make Sunday evening program¬ 
mes a special feature and. as we feel 
that we have been rather successful 
along these lines, we thought that we 
would like to share some of our ideas 
with you. 

During our PreCamp training period 
we regard our first Sunday evening as 
most important, because it is one in 
which we set “standards” for all future 
Sunday evenings. 

It is an invitation evening. It is made 
quite clear to all that those attending 
will be listening to, or taking part in. 
a “serious” musical, and if they feel 
that it has no appeal and they want to 
be noisy, we suggest that they do not 
come, although it is made abundantly 
clear that everyone is invited and 
wanted. 

From that moment on, all kinds of 
preparations take place. The room 


where we are going to meet is made as 
attractive as possible, with a fire, flow¬ 
ers, and other decorations. Lights should 
be dimmed. It is also made as comfort¬ 
able as possible, and then when it is 
time to begin, soft music is played, and 
the staff and all those who have decided 
to come enter quietly. Usually everyone 
does come, because by this time every¬ 
one who is not interested is certainly 
curious! 

Someone, the best musician we have, 
plays the piano; perhaps this is followed 
by a violin, flute or recorder solo, de¬ 
pending upon the talent of our group, 
or upon the friends we have prevailed 
upon to visit us that night. Then, every¬ 
one is led in singing quietish and worth¬ 
while songs, making use of descants and 
part singing where possible, and without 
using song sheets. The singing is usu¬ 
ally interspersed with more solos, or an 
occasional reading; and with no ap¬ 
plause to disturb the atmosphere of 
quiet enjoyment. It is surprising how 
cuiicklv it ceases to be a “performance” 
and becomes a group programme with 
the sense of everyone making a 
contribution. 

By the second week, with some real 
idea of what we are aiming at, we are 
all ready for something more ambitious, 
and something which will “include” as 
well as “interest” our campers. 


18 


Canadian Camping 




As our third Camp Sunday happened 
to fall on July first, we tied it in with 
the Commonwealth theme, by present¬ 
ing an evening called “The United 
Kingdom”. 

Our local colour was four beautiful 
shields bearing the emblems of the Rose, 
Thistle, Shamrock and Daffodil, and 
the four flags flanked by the Union 
Jack. These were all made by our Arts 
and Crafts personnel. A group of Stu¬ 
dent Counsellors formed a choir, each 
wearing a floral emblem; and our four 
“speakers” were dressed to represent 
the four countries, England, Scotland, 
Ireland and Wales. An over-all intro¬ 
duction was given, in which attention 
was drawn to the different cultural 
backgrounds, and historical divisions be¬ 
tween the countries now co-operating. 
Each speaker told some story about the 
country she represented, including the 
story of, or reference to, the Patron 
Saint of that country. 


The choir sang special English, Scot¬ 
tish, Irish and Welsh songs. A sword 
dance and Irish Reel were performed, 
and the rest of the camp wove the pro¬ 
gramme together by singing a variety 
of the better known traditional songs 
of the British Isles. 

This programme offered a good deal 
of scope, both from the point of view 
of stories and songs, and certain songs, 
of special historical interest, such as 
“Summer Is A-Coming In”, were in¬ 
troduced. Finally the campers were 
challenged to note this unity which com¬ 
bined many differences, and were re¬ 
minded that, although this much had 
been accomplished for : them, it was up 
to them to see how they could help to 
accomphsh world unity. We finished bv 
plavmg “The Overture to the Hebrides’, 
by Mendelssohn, as we felt that this 
record suggested the surging waves 
around the British Isles. 

(continued on next page) 


FOODCRAFT Specialized foods are ideal for camp feeding 
because of simplicity of preparation, cost and waste control, maximum 
nutritive value, and highest quality. 


Most camps use FOODCRAFT products. They combine “home-cooked" 
flavour with commercial efficiency and are guaranteed in every 
respect. 


Soup Bases 
Gravy Base 
Soup Vegetables 
Salad Dressing 
Cake Mixes 


Creme Pudding Mix 
Pie Fillings 
Meringue Powder 
Jelly Powder 
Hot Chocolate 


Jam and Marmalade 
Beverage Concentrates 
Sundae Toppings 
Table Syrup 
Flavours 


Send for information and samples now while you have time for a thorough 
investigation — it will prove of considerable interest. 

BRANCHES ACROSS CANADA * < 


Foodcraft Laboratories Limited 


60 Duchess Street 
TORONTO 2, ONTARIO 


6276 des Ecores Street 
MONTREAL 36. P.Q. 


Toronto, Canada, December, 1954 


19 



For 

• Expert Advice 

• on 

• Labour Saving 

• and efficient 

• Gas Appliances 

• for your Camp 

• Consult 

SUPERIOR 
PROPANE 
Limited 

26 St. Clair Ave. E. 
Toronto - WA. 4-7441 


IF SAFETY IS A 
FACTOR 

YOU MUST CONSIDER 
AER-O-BUOY 

FLUTTER BOARDS 

FLOAT MARKERS 
RING BUOYS 

PADDLE BOARDS 

• 

BEACH POOL & CAMP 
SUPPLY COMPANY 

Specialists in Aer-O-Buoy 
Buoyancy Products 

Box 97, Oakvilfe, Ontario 


Another jolly evening was a Highland 
“Ceilidh” ( which is an evening of songs 
and story telling taking place in the 
home of a Highland Crofter. Scottish 
and Hebridean songs, dances and stories 
were presented by the different groups 
as they dropped in to take part in the 
“Ceilidh”, and the local colour of kilts, 
plaids, blankets, and lanterns, was 
effective and easy to achieve. The 
“Ceilidh” opened with the ceremony of 
the cutting of the sod for the turf fire 
and closed with the “smooring of the 
fire”. The Crofter’s family talked 
amongst themselves, and a friendly and 
informal dialogue gave the programme 
a sense of belonging. 

Still another very successful evening 
was our Canadian evening when, after 
a brief talk on Canada, the country, 
people and world contribution, the 
campers were transported to a Hudson 
Bay Trading Post with all the Local 
colour of paddles, logs, stores, blankets, 
etc. 

Here the trader and his wife greeted 
and bartered with the various .groups 
of fishermen, lumber jacks, Eskimos 
and Indians, who talked amongst them¬ 
selves and sang their own songs. A 
group of French Canadians entered, 
singing and talking, and swung into a 
lively square dance, at the close of which 
an old Indian story teller told one of 
the Indian legends about Gitchi- 
Manitou. 

Finally, the campers, who had already 
joined in with the singing of the more 
familiar French Canadian songs, closed 
the evening by singing “The Old Huron 
Carol”. 

Such a Canadian evening is not only 
particularly colourful, but it does ac¬ 
quaint the whole camp with many of 
the very lovely and less familiar Can¬ 
adian songs, including some of the bois¬ 
terous ones like “Fse the Bye That 



20 


Canadian Camping 





Builds the Boat” and “Donkey Riding”, 
the very lovely “Eskimo Lullabye” and 
“The Indian Birch Bark Canoe”. Two 
of the folk songs were sung in French, 
and we chose the lively “Raftsmen” 
and the beautiful “A La Claire 
Fountaine.” 

Still another programme was called 
“America Sings”, and, while a mother 
told her child about some of the excit¬ 
ing things which happened in the early 
days of American history, the sailing 
ships and the covered wagons, the gold 
prospector, and the negro slaves on the 
plantations, the cowboys and the first 
ranchers, three groups in the back¬ 
ground sang appropriate songs. The 
men, dressed as cowboys and ranchers, 
sang “The Old Chisholm Trail”, “Red 
River Valley”, and “The Streets of 
Laredo”; a group of Negroes sang 
Spirituals, and another group the Plan¬ 
tation Songs of Stephen Foster. 

The mother mentioned Stephen Fos¬ 
ter’s contribution to American folk 
songs; then another of his songs, “Beau¬ 
tiful Dreamer”, was sung as a solo, fol¬ 
lowed by a dance to “O Dem Golden 
Slippers”. 

Again, this was a very colourful and 
gay evening, the songs were popular, 
and it was possible to introduce all 
kinds of extras. “Tony”, the little pony 
who pulls the camp pony cart, came on 
stage as part of our local colour, and, as 
vou can imagine, the whole camp was 
delighted! 

As you will have noticed, so far, we 
have discussed programmes involving 
music, singing, and dancing, but a play 
reading, or a selection of readings can 
be equally successful, provided, again, 
that local colour is there to help capture 
the atmosphere. It is important to see 
that the parts are adequately read and 
acted, but this does not always mean 
that they must be learned by heart, a 
difficult achievement in any busy camp 
programme. The radio script method 
can also be used very effectively and 
with the minimum of rehearsing. 


An International evening is an ob¬ 
vious Sunday evening programme; and 
for those who feel that their campers’ 
acquaintanceship with Christmas Carols 
is limited to the five or six carols ground 
out so unceasingly during the Christmas 
shopping period, a Christmas Festival, 
with all the trimmings and many of the 
really beautiful and often unknown 
carols, is amazingly rewarding. 

In all the Senior programmes, we feel 
that the trouble taken over “local 
colour”, worthwhile music, and as much 
action and camper participation as pos¬ 
sible, cannot be over-emphasized, in 
order to achieve a really successful 
evening. It is also highly important that 
the age group of the campers should be 
considered. 

We have found it a valuable practice 
to divide camp into two sections, Junior 
and Senior. We give this programme 
twice, one performance at seven and 
one at eight. This means that we can 
make the programme simple and short 
for the juniors, and longer and more 
elaborate for the seniors. It also has the 
additional advantage of providing the 
equivalent of a dress rehearsal! 

We feel that Sunday evening pro¬ 
grammes of this kind provide a wonder¬ 
ful synthesis for many Camp activities 
and ideas, and we hope that those of 
you reading this article may find 
some of these ideas helpful in your 
programme. 

The songs mentioned in this article 
have been taken from the following 
music books, all of which should be 
part of any camp equipment. 

Fireside Book of Folk Songs. 

Fireside Book of American Songs. 

Oxford Carol Book. 

Songs of the Hebrides—arr. for 
schools—Kennedy Fraser. 

Folk Songs of Canada — Edith F. 
Fowke and Richard Johnston. 

Sing Along the Way. 

Lift Your Voices. 


Toronto , Canada , December, 1954 


21 


(continued from page 14) 
camp, we did some swimming in 
Georgian Bay. 

We allowed only twelve in the swim¬ 
ming area at a time, and only six 
campers in the water. Supervision con¬ 
sisted of a nurse whose sole duty was to 
watch for signs of fatigue; the swim¬ 
ming instructor is always on hand, as 
well as her assistant, a senior counsellor, 
a volunteer, and another boy to assist 
with any lifting required. At least three 
staff members are in the water at one 
time with the campers; and with the 
more handicapped children, we call in 
one or two more people to assist with 
dressing and undressing. 

To the physically handicapped child, 
swimming takes on even greater impor¬ 
tance than it does for a normal child. 
You see, it is one activity in which the 
handicapped child can participate and 
in which he or she can become most 
proficient. This in itself brings assur¬ 
ance and happiness as cares and any 
physical shortcomings seem to float 
away. 

When I first went to camp, the idea 
of an out-trip for these children seemed 
impossible, but it is one of the happiest 
and most successful activities on the 
programme. At a park about two miles 
from camp, groups of about twelve 
are taken out, overnight, leaving about 
four o’clock in the afternoon, returning 
at ten o’clock in the morning. Campers 
are able to sleep in sleeping bags, and 
are happiest when they can help cook 
supper and breakfast in the open. The 
evening meal is followed by a sing-song 
and marshmallow roast. 

The criterion for deciding who goes 
on overnights is the benefit the child 
would receive from such a trip rather 
than the extent of his or her physical 
handicap. Yes, even wheelchair cases 
are taken on overnights! And in this 
case other campers are encouraged to 
help where possible. 


Evening programme resembles gen¬ 
eral camp programme to a great degree: 
Indian campfires and ceremonials, sing¬ 
songs, skit and talent nights, staff- 
camper ball games, boxing nights, sca¬ 
venger and counsellor hunts, marshmal¬ 
low roasts, and so on. Special Event 
Days run to the familiar Topsy-Turvy 
Days, Regattas and Olympic Days. 

After this rather cursory view of pro¬ 
gramme, let us look at some of the 
benefits accruing to the camper. I be¬ 
lieve that the crippled child gains in 
large measure from his contact with 
other crippled children. In many cases 
he does not have far to look before he 
sees someone considerably more handi¬ 
capped than himself; thus is generated 
a positive outlook to his handicap which 
encourages him to greater self-efficiency. 

Counsellors are interested in this par¬ 
ticular type of work and are trained and 
encouraged to talk to campers in an 
effort to spread enthusiasm and encour¬ 
agement. An actual instance of this 
occurred in a talk I had with a boy in 
a Scoliosis Cast ... his entire body 
except arms and one leg was immobile. 
While indeed his activity was severely 
curtailed, his cast would be removed in 
one year. His discouragement vanished 
when he was brought to realize that his 
handicap was temporary compared with 
those who would spend the rest of their 
lives in wheelchairs. On the other hand 
the wheelchair cases were cheered and 
urged on to accomplishment in every 
field, as they worked with their hands 
and minds. 

Campers were in a position to acquire 
deep understanding of the workings of 
a group in the cabin, or in interest and 
activity groups. Before camp, the 
majority of these children would have 
had little experience with outside group 
activities; this short contact at camp 
seemed to give them a new approach 
and a fund of new knowledge. 


22 


Canadian Camping 


I feel that camping provides an ex¬ 
cellent means of giving the crippled 
child a sense of belonging. This is one 
of the few big experiences which he 
can share with an un-handicapped 
child. On his return home and during 
the year he can talk about his over¬ 
nights, his swimming, his campfires, and 
so on. We are, I believe, performing 
an important function by providing the 
basis for this interchange of ideas and 
experiences. The handicapped child’s 
often-limited horizons are brightened 
and widened as new possibilities and 
experiences unfold. 

The campers, in common with most 
children, arc undoubtedly craving a 
sense of importance, and a desire for 
being needed. We tried to provide an 
outlet for this desire through having 
the campers assist, if only to a small 


degree, those who were less fortunate 
than themselves. Such duties might 
be only the opening of doors, tying of 
shoelaces, pushing the wheelchairs, but 
they performed magnificently. The re¬ 
cipient of the service> also benefitted, 
perhaps to a greater extent than the 
mere physical task involved, for he ac¬ 
quired, to some small degree, indepen¬ 
dence from the adults on whom he had 
heretofore relied so heavily. 

Members of our camp staff enjoyed 
their summer camping experiences to 
the extreme. But still more important 
came the revelation to all of us that 
these children, handicapped as they 
were to various degrees, were the most 
happy, cheerful and appreciative people 
any of us have met. Indeed, our own 
troubles by comparison seemed very 
small and insignificant. 



are built exclusively 
by the builders of 

TAYLOR 

CRAFT 

.rC • 

Canada's Leading 
CRUISERS 
and 

SAILBOATS 


J. J. TAYLOR & SONS LIMITED 

on the Western Channel - TORONTO 


Toronto , Canada , December , 1954 


23 











(continued from page 15) 

is over, each child knows more about 
his or her condition and the proper care 
it demands, and appears much happier 
and more contented in mind. A child’s 
discovery that other children with the 
same condition can excel in sports and 
other activities gives him or her a 
definite “lift”. 

It is encouraging to all of us to note 
that Bill Talbert, Captain of the Davis 
Cup Team and Hamilton Richardson, 
one of its members, are both diabetics. 
They will represent the United States 
in Australia shortly. Another famous 
diabetic is Bill Nicholson, outfielder for 
the Philadelphia “Phillies”. 

In the ever broadening field of oppor¬ 
tunities, diabetics also have responsi¬ 
bilities. It is not enough to say that 


diabetics can do most of the things that 
non-diabetics are doing. They must 
prove it, for as these children grow up 
and come in contact with Management, 
they will be asked to prove it. Camp¬ 
ing is helping them to find such a foot¬ 
ing. It is helping them to improve their 
skills. It will help them, in years to 
come, to take their place beside those 
who do not have such a condition to 
face. 

The future of young diabetics, and 
of those presently employed, is largely 
in their own hands, because character 
and ability are mainly the determining 
factors. Character is within reach of 
everyone; but ability can be jeopardized 
by poor health. Any camping experi¬ 
ence these children can enjoy will be a 
step in the right direction, a step to¬ 
wards economic security, to happiness, 
and a future normal life. 



THE TRAIL 

O F 

THE RED CANOE 

by Margaret Govan 

Four teen-aged girls find unexpected 
excitement and adventure during a canoe 
trip in Algonquin Park. The story is well 
) written and the background authentic as 

r the author has been the director of a 
girls' camp in this region for many years. 

$ 2.00 

"". . . a thrilling story of outdoor life . . . there 
are scores of valuable hints for the girl who loves 
the outdoors, plus a fine adventure story/" 

—The Hamilton Spectator 

"A truly brilliant piece of nature writing/" 

—The Winnipeg Free Press 


at your booksellers 


J. M. DENT & SONS (Canada) LIMITED 


24 


Canadian Camping 




(continued from page 9) 

Caution ! 

One of the latest announcements to 
come into focus is that of a giant Com¬ 
munist-inspired youth rally in Warsaw 
in the summer of 1955. We do not 
anticipate losing any of our counsellors 
to the event, but many rallies and plan¬ 
ning meetings are to be scheduled for 
us in Canada. Mostly they are spon¬ 
sored by the Youth Friendship League, 
and other youth movement groups so 
affiliated, and we feel it our duty to 
caution students . . . and many adults. 
These societies have a way of inducing 
unsuspecting persons to include the 
names on membership lists; perhaps if 
directors are talking with young people 
at any time, they might like to sound 
the warning. Of course, subversive 
teachings do not permit the wisdom of 
those in authority to interfere with the 
thinking of the younger generation, but 
we still believe that a word to the wise 
and the free goes a long way! 


Oux Queat (Book 

’Twas no mere coincidence that TED 
YARD concentrated on staff training 
and job evaluation. After all, we have 
talked of articles along these lines for 
seasons on end, and he decided to do 
something about . . . during his vaca¬ 
tion, at that! KAY McCLELLAND’s 
pet age-group forms the topic of her 
article on what to do with the Tens and 
Elevens. She should know; she runs a 
top-notch section for this age-group. 
Glad to see BOB FROOD-BARCLAY 
with us again, this time covering points 
travellers in Europe might like to know 
about camping over there; he also pro¬ 
vides a contact address in England for 
visiting camp folk. DELWIN McLEN- 
NAN, new to Canadian Camping, but 
not new to the Association by any 
means, took time from his studies at 
’Varsity to open our eyes to camping 


for the handicapped . . . and we* are 
appreciative indeed. Welcome once 
more to BARBARA CASS-BEGGS, 
specialist in her field’ who lives in Wales 
at present; her husband is on the staff of 
the University of Swansea. LORNE E. 
BROWN has known Miss Gertrude 
Moore for years and years, and his story 
proves that he is the person to write this 
month’s biographical sketch. We salute 
MISS MOORE for the contribution 
she has made to Canadian youth in the 
East as well as the West, in educational 
circles and in the world of camping. 



sends more children 
to camp 

than any other magazine! 

1,625,000 mothers with over 
3,250,000 children depend on 
PARENTS’ for camp selection 
guidance, look to its camp listings 
with confidence. 

More camps use PARENTS' than 
any other national magazine ... 
75% of previous year’s advertisers 
renewed space in 1954! 



Only magazine with 100% 
families - with - children 
audience —natural prospects 
jor camp enrollments. 


For rates and details write to: 
Josephine E. Chrenko, Director, 
School and Camp Dept. 


PARENTS' MAGAZINE, 52 Vanderbilt Ave., N. Y. 17 


Toronto, Canada, December, 1954 


25 








| ,3far ^our Camp ^Qtbrarg I 


THE TRAIL OF THE RED CANOE. 

Margaret Govan. 

Those who know and love the North 
Country and tripping, young and old 
alike, will not rest until they have read 
through to the last page of The Trail of 
The Red Canoe. Chiefly because it is 
well-written for easy reading, but also 
because Miss Gov an knows camping, 
its joys and hazards, the story carries 
the reader every scenic mile of the way; 
so much so that one re-lives parts of 
every canoe trip within memory. The 
teen-age patter, reasoning and quick 
thinking, the urge to tease and resultant 
“urge to kill”, are expressed, in lan¬ 
guage of that age group, on the part 
of the author. $2.00. J. M. Dent and 
Sons (Canada), Limited, Toronto. 

HANDBOOK OF TRAIL CAMP- 

CRAFT. John A. Ledlie. 

“When campcraft skills are related to 
real living situations in the out-of-doors, 
they add sparkle and meaning to the 
activity”, are the words in which John 
M a c B e a n , Chairman of National 
Campcraft Commission in the United 
States, introduces the Handbook of 
Trail Campcraft. Prepared by members 


of this Commission, John Ledlie has 
edited it so that the book becomes a 
step-by-step procedure for organizing a 
complete trail campcraft programme, 
whether it’s a simple hike or cook-out, 
or a two-week trek. We like the recipes: 
a handful of this, two fingers of that, 
a pinch of the other, water or milk to 
moisten . . . none of the scientific ex¬ 
pressions of a civilized kitchen! The 
book touches on conservation and first 
aid, and furnishes a wealth of informa¬ 
tion on Trail Camping in Winter. $4.95. 
An Association Press book, distributed 
in Canada through G. R. Welch Com¬ 
pany, Limited, Toronto. 

COMMITTEE COMMON SENSE. 

Audrey R. and Harleigh B. Trecker. 

“If you want work done, organize a 
committee”. How often we hear the 
expression, and how often committees 
are formed without due consideration 
given to the capabilities or interest of 
the people on it, or without giving its 
members a clear picture of their duties. 
The Treckers, Audrey and Harleigh, 
highlight this point in Committee Com¬ 
mon Sense, take the positive approach 
^nd show how to choose, organize and 
work along with committees generally. 
In answering many questions, the 
authors guide one away from “the 
frustration of badly organized and im¬ 
properly run committees. They trace 
a concise blueprint for the effective 
operation of the committee, the task 


NORTHERN ONTARIO'S FINEST RECREATIONAL AREA, FROM 
NORTH BAY TO MOOSONEE, IS SERVED BY 

ONTARIO NORTHLAND RAILWAY 

For information on desirable areas for Camps in new territory 
apply to: 

R. P. C. McLEOD, 

Traffic Manager, 

Ontario Northland Railway, 
North Bay, Ontario. 


26 


Canadian Camping 









force of the democratic community.” 
$3.00. A Morrow Publication, dis¬ 
tributed in Canada through George J. 
McLeod Company, Limited, Toronto. 

TWENTY TWENTY-MINUTE 
TALKS TO BOYS. 

Vernon F. McAdam. 

For the past thirty years, Vernon 
McAdam has talked to boys. Boys’ 
clubs, Boy Scout Groups, Boys’ Brigade, 
High School, Sunday School, and 
Camp Weredale have been his interests. 
Each Sunday found him conducting an 
undenominational chapel service in 
which his talk formed the focal point. 
To our great pleasure, and to aid any¬ 
one who has work of this kind to do, 
he has chosen twenty different topics . .. 
“not prepared as sermons, nor as short 
formulae for success, but rather as in¬ 
spirational talks of a length suitable for 
boys”. The reader gets a “lift” just to 
read through them, and realizes their 
extreme value, camp-wise or otherwise. 
This book is free if you will write to 
Boys’ Clubs of Canada, 6 Weredale 
Park, Montreal 6, Quebec. 

THE OUTDOOR PICTURE 
COOKBOOK. 

Bob Jones. 

The author is right: one learns by 
watching and doing, so Bob Jones pro¬ 
duced this book in picture form, illus¬ 
trating cookery steps just as if a counsel¬ 
lor or fellow-camper were showing you 
how to proceed. Furthermore, he 
crowns his achievement with a chapter 
on how to wash dishes, and comes 
through with some wonderful ideas. So 
packed is it with general information on 
the buying, storing, preparing, cooking 
and serving of food, that it would be 
a boon to anyone . . . housewife, 

Scout, Guider, camping people any¬ 
where in the world. $3.25. A Haw¬ 
thorn Book, distributed in Canada 
through McClelland and Stewart, 
Limited, Toronto. 


HOW TO ATTEND A 
CONFERENCE. 

Dorothea F. Sullivan. 

HOW TO BE A BOARD OR 
COMMITTEE MEMBER. 

Roy Sorenson 

HOYV TO WORK WITH YOUR 
BOARD AND COMMITTEES. 

Louis H. Blumenthal. 

Three volumes from the Leadership 
Library could serve as useful guides to 
businessmen or anyone who works with 
committees or executives. How To 
Work With Your Board and Commit¬ 
tees is a guide to productive board-staff 
relations, an asset to social workers and 
camping people whose duties are cen¬ 
tred in group work. How To Be a 
Board or Committee Member, a popu¬ 
lar condensation of Mr. Sorenson’s Art 
of Board Membership, looks at board 
responsibilities in today’s world, and 
suggests sound methods of cooperation 
between boards and professionals. How 
to Attend a Conference explores all the 
angles of workshops and conventions. 
For those who have never attended a 
conference, Miss Sullivan explains ac¬ 
commodation, how and when to make 
reservations, how to make the best of 
free time and get the most from ses¬ 
sions. $1.25 each. Association Press 
publications, distributed in Canada 
through G. R. Welch Company, Limit¬ 
ed, Toronto. 

We suggest the following publications 
for directors and staff members. They’ll 
be useful next summer, and for coun¬ 
sellor training groups in the early 
spring:. 

A series of five pamphlets, the Stage¬ 
craft Series, just published by the De¬ 
partment of Health and Welfare, Ot¬ 
tawa. Costume, Direction, Make-up, 
Organization Back-Stage, Organization 
Front-of-House. These pamphlets are 
free and may be ordered through your 
Provincial Department of Health and 
Welfare. 

(continued next page) 


Toronto, Canada, December, 1954 


27 


Track and Field Series, nine booklets 
written specially for the beginner, under 
these titles: Broad Jump, High Jump, 
Hurdles, Sprints, Middle Distance Run¬ 
ning, Gross Country Running, Pole 
Vault, Shot Put, Relays. Order through 
the Queen’s Printer, Ottawa. 15c each 
copy; 1 set of nine, $1.00; 100 copies 
or more — 25 per cent discount. 

The Canadian Association for Adult 
Education has an interesting list of 
study kits on timely subjects facing 
Canadian citizens . . . Education, 

Communism, Politics and Citizenship, 
Family Life, Values, Economics, Com¬ 
munication, Culture in Canada, Public 
Affairs, Parent Education, and many 
others. Write to Canadian Association 
for Adult Education 143 Bloor Street 
West, Toronto 5, Ontario, for pamph¬ 
lets and order forms. Prices are 
reasonable 10c, 15c, 20c, 25c, 35c and 
50c each. 

THE MORNING WATCH, a series 
of devotional talks for campers, pre¬ 
pared by Wilbur K. Howard, and very 
good indeed. Only 5c and obtainable 
through the Ontario Council of Chris¬ 
tian Education, 150 Simcoe Street, 
Toronto 1. 

CAMP SONG BOOK. A handy 
little book with words and music to 
fifty-three songs.. 25c. Order through 
Canadian Camping Association, Room 
407, 170 Bloor Street West, Toronto 5. 

CAMP SAFETY DIGEST. Articles 
on every phase of camp safety. 50c. 
Order through Canadian Camping As¬ 


sociation, Room 407, 170 Bloor Street 
West, Toronto 5. 

CAMPING — WHAT IS IT? A 
basic philosophy of good camping. 30c. 
Order through Canadian Camping 
Association, Room 407, 170 Bloor Street 
West, Toronto 5. 

FATIGUE—A MAJOR HEALTH 
PROBLEM. By Dr. J. H. Ebbs. Order 
through Canadian Camping Associa¬ 
tion, Room 407, 170 Bloor Street West, 
Toronto 5. 10c each. 

MY CAMP BOOK. A book of 
poems, prayers, with many blank pages 
for photographs, campers’ own writings, 
collections, autographs, and so on. 25c. 
Ontario Council of Christian Educa¬ 
tion, 150 Simcoe Street, Toronto 1. 

WHEN JUNIORS GO CAMPING. 
Written primarily for leaders of church 
and other short-term camps, it contains 
sound information on Junior camping, 
for campers who are in grades four, 
five and six in day school. 80c. Ontario 
Council of Christian Education, 150 
Simcoe Street, Toronto 1. 

Just a thought for a welcome Christ¬ 
mas present ... a subscription to 
Canadian Nature, filled to the covers 
with all sorts of information on the out¬ 
doors, nature study, astronomy, conser¬ 
vation ... an excellent magazine for 
adults or students; children will enjoy 
it, too. For information write to the 
Audubon Society, 181 Jarvis Street, 
Toronto 2. 



28 


Canadian Camping 


(continued from page 13) 

The war years interrupted much of 
the planning and work of the Inter¬ 
national Federation and even now 
things are not yet back to normal but 
steady progress is being made and there 
IS enough information available in the 
special Bulletin issued each year for you 
to have a never-to-be-forgotten holiday 
abroad. Individual clubs can also give 
a limited number of sites in various 
countries, but the better way is to join 
the International body through your 
own national club and obtain the Inter¬ 
national Card of Introduction and the 
special Bulletin which gives lists of clubs 
and their addresses. 

Plan your holiday and then write to 
the club of the country you wish to visit 
and ask for sites in SPECIFIC areas. 
It is no good just writing to the Camp¬ 
ing Club de France, for example, asking 
for a list of sites in France—France is 
a mighty big place! 

Every year the member-clubs of the 
International Federation get together 
for one big International camp, and this 
is really something outstanding. This 


Rally is held in a different country each 
year and it is truly worth a visit. 

Year by year hundreds of campers 
make use of these facilities for both 
group and solo camping and there is 
no doubt whatever that it constitutes 
the cheapest and one of the most enjoy¬ 
able forms of holidaying abroad. What 
was it R. L. Stevenson said: 

“For my part, I travel not to go any¬ 
where, but to go. I travel for travel’s 
sake. The great affair is to move.” 

A nice thought, but some of us at 
least like to know WHERE we are 
going and the clubs can help us make up 
our minds. 

A final word—any Canadians visiting 
Europe, who may get as far as London, 
would find the Camping Club of Great 
Britain and Ireland—the oldest of its 
kind in the world—most helpful. They 
have a special Temporary membership 
for visitors from abroad and are glad 
to help in the matter of camping in 
other countries. The address is: 38, 
Grosvenor Gardens, London S.W. 1. 

Happy camping to you all—wherever 
it may be! 


Make Redbook Camp Directory Your 

U.S. Representative 



Redbooks circulation guarantee 
is 2,000,000 

net paid copies per month. 

Canadian circulation 
124,123 copies per month. 

Interpreted in terms of Canadian 
readers 300,000 per month 

FOR INFORMATION ADDRESS: 

ETHEL F. BEBB 

Director and Editor,Camp Department 

230 PARK AVENUE NEW YORK 17, N.Y. 


Toronto, Canada, December, 1954 


29 







(continued from page 12) 

Special care was taken to see that, on 
the three or four occasions when Semi¬ 
nar members were related to pro¬ 
gramme groups, the change of leader¬ 
ship was skilfully handled. Usually the 
visiting director went to the same group 
so that he and the bovs came to know 
one another well. 

Evaluation of the whole project car¬ 
ried out through group discussion was 
complemented by a process of personal 
evaluation conducted by Mr. Stan Sym¬ 
ington, Boys’ Work Secretary for 
the National Council of Y.M.C.A.’s, 
through interviews with each partici¬ 
pant in the seminar. 

This first National Y.M.C.A. Camp 
Training Seminar was jointly sponsored 
bv the Camp Pine Crest Committee of 
the Toronto Central Y.M.C.A. and the 
National Y.M.C.A. Camping and Per¬ 
sonnel Committee, and there are many 



Theatre Night 
at Blue Mountain Camp 
for Crippled Children 


who share the conviction that the twelve 
participants, filling as they do strategic 
positions in the camping field, are 
equipped to contribute substantially to 
the cause of better leadership for our 
children’s camps ... we hope there 
will be more “on the job” Camp Direc¬ 
tors’ Seminars! 



Sincere Christmas Greetings 
and 

Best Wishes 
for the New Year 


from JOHN HEARN 
and 


KERT MANUFACTURING CO. LIMITED 


Looking forward to seeing you at the 

ONTARIO CAMPING ASSOCIATION CONFERENCE 
MARCH 3rd, 4th and 5th, 1955 


30 


Canadian Camping 









WHODUZIT? 


by W. E. YARD 


Most of us have, at one time or an¬ 
other, attempted to analyse the scope 
of various staff positions, and it has 
proven invariably to be a rewarding, 
’though at times, laborious experience. 

Many camps use different titles for 
staff, and many who use similar titles, 
find quite logically that because of 
peculiarly individual characteristics and 
practices, they expect entirely different 
things from staff members who “nomin¬ 
ally” fill the same position. 

We shall not suggest here that all 
staff should fit into “standardized” cate¬ 
gories, since in the first place we suspect 
that such an endeavour would almost 
surely end in futility, and in the second 
place we are not convinced that “stan¬ 
dardization” is the most important con¬ 
cern at the moment in this area. It does 
seem, however, that a careful thinking 
through of the detailed responsibilities 
of each position, developed possibly to 
a written job analysis for that position 
in the individual camp, would be a 
worthwhile exercise and in keeping with 
our common concerns for good Per¬ 
sonnel practices. 

This is the first in a series of four 
“checklist” type articles. In each case 
a job analysis outline is given for a 
“typical” camp position. Please do not 
consider that this outline is presented 
as an ideal; it is merely to be considered 
as a reasonably orderly outline of re¬ 
sponsibilities for a given position in one 
situation. We do, however, invite you 
to relate both the position and the in¬ 
dividual responsibilities to your own 
situation, and then to sketch out, for 
your own camp, a job analysis for this 
position or for the position which mo«t 
closely resembles the one being analyzed. 


SECTION DIRECTORS’ 
RESPONSIBILITIES 

(Direct and personalized supervision of 
boys and leaders in Section) 

I Staff training through 

(a) regularly scheduled conferences 
with each counsellor. 

(b) informal daily conference. 

(c) evening meetings of counsellors to 
discuss topics related to leadership 
training and to clear on such mat¬ 
ters as: — 

Record Keeping 

Letters Home 

Cabin Council 

Fire Drill and Instruction 

Schedules for Laundry 

Days Off 

Out-trips 

Swim period 

Boat patrol 

Night watch 

Staff snack 

II Programme Planning (including 
leadership and evaluation) 

Interest Groups 
All-section programme 
Weekly highlights 
Camper Council 
Out-trips—in co-operation with 

Out-Trip Department 

III Personalized attention to such 
things as: — 

Boys prayers, condition of clothes, 
cleanliness. 

IV Direct Supervision in following 
areas:— 

Cabin Allotments 
Health Check-up 

Introductory programme for new 
boys, including interest finder and 
campfire programme. 

(continued page 34) 


Toronto, Canada, December, 1954 


31 






CANADIANS 
ARE CAMPERS 

0 

JOIN THE CANADIAN 
CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

• 

ENCOURAGE ALL YOUR CAMP STAFF TO ENJOY THESE 
MEMBERSHIP SERVICES AT SPECIAL STUDENT RATES 

Services Offered: 

1. National Convention in co-operation with Provincial Associations. 

2. National Magazine—CANADIAN CAMPING—published quarterly. 

3. National office to co-ordinate national and provincial projects. 

4. Access to up-to-date camping library. By mail service. 

5. A part in promoting better Minimum Standards for all camps. 

6. Parent and public education regarding benefits of camping. 

7. Active membership in nation-wide fellowship of camp people. 

Remember: Your membership in a provincial organization includes 
membership in The Canadian Camping Association 
and a subscription to "Canadian Camping". 

Information about Provincial Associations: 


BRITISH COLUMBIA - - Miss Crehan. 2057 W. 36th St., Vancouver 

MANITOBA - - - Miss E. Connal, 447 Isbister PI., Winnipeg 

ONTARIO .Mrs. E. Flynn, 170 Bloor St. W., Toronto 

QUEBEC. Mr. Ken Murray, 112 Dunrae Ave., Montreal 


Where there is no provincial association: detach following form 
and mail direct to Canadian Camping Association, 170 Bloor St. 
W., Room 407, Toronto. 


PLEASE ENROLL ME AS A MEMBER 
OF THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

NAME. 

ADDRESS.CAMP.I. 

FEES (WHEN PAID DIRECT TO CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

Camps $3.50 Individuals $3.00 



32 


Canadian Camping 








of Jit itt n:\os 

The Advertisers 


Beach, Pool & Camp Supply Co. 20 

Camping Magazine . 35 

Canada Packers, Ltd. 4 

J. & J. Cash (Canada), Ltd. 4 

J. M. Dent & Sons (Canada), Ltd. 24 

The T. Eaton Co., Ltd. 3 

Foodcraft Laboratories, Ltd. 19 

Gibbons Quickset Desserts 

Inside Front Cover 

S. Gumpert Co. of Canada, Ltd. 4 

Kert Manufacturing Co. 30 

McKague Chemical Co., Ltd. 6 

Ontario Northern Railroad . 26 

Parents’ Magazine . 25 

Redbook Magazine . 29 

Superior Propane, Ltd. 20 

J. J. Taylor & Sons, Ltd. 23 

Tom Taylor Co., Ltd. 34 

Harold H. Thompson. 33 

G. R. Welch Company, Ltd. 33 

Vermont Accident Insurance Co. 

Outside Back Cover 


CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING 


CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING 
RATES: 

Five cents a word, minimum two 
dollars. All classified advertising pay¬ 
able in advance. Address all corres¬ 
pondence to “Canadian Camping”, 
170 Bloor Street West, Toronto, 
Ontario. 




TEEN TALK 

Very young teen-age daughter of an 
advertising copy writer: Mother, why 
do men always think about food? Last 
night when we were dancing at Nancy’s 
house, Bob kept saying: “ ‘Tenderize 
meat, mine*. Why can’t they get ro¬ 
mantic once in a while?” 


From all of us at the National 
Office . . . 

tZTtje Reason’s JfcieEft, toitl) our 
Ijopcs sigbtcb on tlje most 
successful Season rber ! 


CAMPS 

BUILT 

ANYWHERE IN ONTARIO 

Let's talk it over 


HAROLD H. THOMPSON 

Building Contractor 
Gravenhurst Ontario 


HANDBOOK OF 
TRAIL CAMPCRAFT 

John A. Ledlie - Editor 

$ 4.95 

Fully illustrated with photographs and 
drawings. Here are some of the 
important topics covered in this book: 

Steps in Developing the Program 

Leadership Training 

Health and Safety on the Trail 

Canoe Camping 

Direction Finding 

Sanitation on the Trail 

Weather Forecasting 

Clothes and Bedding 

Care and Use of Tools and Shelters 

Fire, Food and Cooking 

Winter Camping 

Trail Dangers 

at your bookstore, or 

G. R. WELCH CO. LIMITED 

1149 King St. W., Toronto 3, Ontario 


Toronto, Canada, December, 1954 


33 

























(continued from page 31) 

Cabin Clean-up inspection, includ¬ 
ing out houses and counselor 
quarters. (Intensive check on one 
cabin each day). 

Maintenance of counsellor sched¬ 
ules as previously listed. 

Checking on O.D. and duty cabin 
when these responsibilities fall to 
his section. 

Seeing that Section is well-super- 
vised in dining hall. 

Staying very close to section pro¬ 
gramme and getting to know boys 
by name. 

Counsellor letters to parents. 

V Reports to Camp Director 
as follows: 

Laundry Schedule. 

Days Off Schedule. 

Out-Trips Programme 
Night Watch Schedule. 
Counsellors’ Work (Appraisal 
Sheet). 

Section program chart with weekly 
highlights. 

(At beginning of each week). 


Reports on counsellor letters 'to 
parents (as required). 

Out-Trips (as required). 

Daily Report covering: — 

Supervision for day in following 
specific areas: — 

Swim period—Lifeguard 
assignments. 

Cabin Area—Patrol assignments. 
Boat Patrol assignments. 

Special Events planned:-— 

Number of boys away on trips on 
breakfast, lunch, supper. 

Special Comments. 

VI The Section Director is in effect 
the Director of a small camp unit. 
At this camp, it is the aim to give 
him the responsibility for Programme 
and personal service for his Section 
unit, and to relieve him as much as 
possible from the business and ad¬ 
ministrative matters. 

He meets with the Senior Staff 
Cabinet each morning to clear on 
areas of all-camp concern (pro¬ 
gramme and otherwise). 


BOAT ACCESSORIES 

for every type of 
Water Craft 

A complete line of equipment for every marine need carried in 
our showrooms — 

SAILS - HARDWARE - ROPE - CANVAS - PAINTS - VARNISHES 

TOM TAYLOR LIMITED 

The Bett in Quality and Service 

107 Front Street East EMpire 3-8761 Toronto, Ontario 


34 


Canadian Camping 



we're 


?lU 6 


G ^ 6 


You 



c a m i? a ro <§ 

Can Order These 
PUBLICATIONS 


From 

AMERICAN CAMPING 
ASSOCIATION 

343 So. Dearborn Street 
Chicago 4, III. 



"CAMP DIRECTORY”—1954 

Over 2000 camps affiliated with the 
American Camping Association are listed 
alphabetically by-states. 

“CAMPING at the MID -CENTURY”—1953* 

A Census of Organized Camping . . . 
Facts and information. Number of camps 
and campers . . . types of camps . . . 
facilities . . . trends and standards . . . 
statistical tables. 



“CAMP SAFETY DIGEST”—Reprinted 1954 

Articles on Safety in all phases of the 
camp program and organization b'y 
leaders in the field (Mason, Sweet, Camp, 
Hammett, Jaeger, et al.) 


WRITE FOR COMPLETE LIST OF PUBLICATIONS 





















HAVE THE BEST 


CAMPERS' INSURANCE 


MEDICAL REIMBURSEMENT 
ACCIDENTAL DEATH 
TUITION REFUND 
EPIDEMIC 
POLIO 

We have paid thousands of dollars in 
claims for camps which are members 
of the Canadian Camping Association. 
Why not avail yourself of this excel¬ 
lent protection and thereby establish 
another medium of public relations 


with the parents? 


BEST IN COVERAGE - BEST IN SERVICE 



THE SIGN OF 
GOOD SERVICE 


VERMONT ACCIDENT INSURANCE CO. 


RUTLAND, VERMONT, U.S.A. 





