







































IN THIS ISSUE 

We’re home from Washington and a Capital Experience! The 
2nd International Camping Congress is now history but some 
major portions of it are recorded here. Camping professionals 
from around the world assembled for a tremendous exchange of 
ideas and information. From Nancy Reagan’s opening remarks, 
congratulating the efforts of camp leaders, through to Jack 
Pearse’s leadership of his song “We Can Make A Difference”, 
the Congress was one highlight after the other. 

In addition to our regular staff, C.C.M. would like to acknow¬ 
ledge feature contributions by several other Washington dele¬ 
gates. Mike Walters (Camp Chief Hector), Marjorie Booth 
(Mooredale Community Centre), and Ian Fowler (C.C.A. V.P. 
Atlantic Region) each covered one day of the Congress and their 
articles are included. Marc Cote (Moorelands Camp) photo¬ 
graphed several important events including Pete Seeger and the 
Canadian reception. 

Wait, that’s not all! Regular features include Coast to Coast, 
Committee Notes, What’s in a Name, Under Open Skies and 
Between the Covers. The Environmental Concerns Committee of 
the C.C.A. has a series of nature programming articles for use in 
the next several issues. Bruce Elkin invites us to assess our camps 
and their purpose in an article entitled “Camp and Character”. 

We welcome the first commercial advertisers to the magazine 
for some time and hope that they come to appreciate us as much 
as we appreciate them. As part of our “look back to look 
forward” policy, we have reprinted, as well, the same 
advertisers’ original item from C.C.M. of 30 years ago. 


DANS CETTE LIVRAISON 

Nous rentrames de Washington et d’une experience 
capitale. Le deuxteme “International Camping Congress” 
est maintenant passe, mais on nota ici des portions 
importantes. Des professionnels du camping du monde 
entier rassembl^rent pour une echange sensationnelle 
d’idees et d’informations. Du moment des remarques 
preliminaires de Nancy Reagan, qui felicita les efforts des 
dirigeants du camping, au moment de la direction par Jack 
Pearse de sa chanson “We Can Make a Difference”, le 
congres tenait un clou suivi d’un autre. 

En plus de notre personnel permanent, C.C.M. voudrait 
manifester notre gratitude k plusieurs autres 
congressistes pour leurs articles. Mike Walters (Camp 
Chief Hector), Marjorie Booth (Mooredale Community 
Centre), et Ian Fowler (v.p. de I’ACC de la region atlantique) 
trait a chacun un jour du congres et leurs articles se 
trouvent dans la revue. Marc Cote (Moorelands Camp) 
photographia plesieurs evenements importants, y compris 
Pete Seeger et la reception canadienne. 

Attendez, ce n’est pas tout. Des articles reguliers 
comprennent D’une cole k I’autre, les notes des comites, 
Que signifie un nom? Sous les cieux ouvcerts et Entre les 
lignes. Le comit6 des soucis de I’environnement de I’ACC a 
une serie d’articles concernant la programmation de la 
nature que nous utiliserons dans phisiours prochaines 
livraisons. Bruce Elkin nous invite a evaluer nos camps et 
leurs buts dans un article entitul6 “Camp and Character”. 

Nous souhaitons la bienvenue k la revue a nos premiers, 
depuis longtemps, publicitaires du commerce, et nous 
esperons qu’ils nous apprecient autant que nous les 
apprecions. Comme partie de notre politique de “regarder 
en arri&re pour regarder en avant”, nous reimprimons aussi 
la reclame originelle des memes publcitaires du C.C.M. il y 
atrente ans. 


BEHIND THIS ISSUE 

DIRIGEANT CETTE LIVRAISON 


STAFF 


PERSONNEL 

Editor-In-Chief 

Jack Pearse 

Editeur en chef 

Senior Editors 

Jane McCutcheon 

John Jorgenson 

Editeurs sup6rieres 

Regional Editors 

Brenda McFarlane—Eastern 

Liz Greenway—Central 

Mickey Johnstone—Western 

Editeurs r6gionaux 

Office Staff 

Lisa Pearse 

Wendy Muir 

Carol Sportun 

Personnel du bureau 

Translation 

Jill Grant 

Traduction 

Printers 

Cober Printing, Kitchener, Ont. 

Imprimeurs 

BOARD of DIRECTORS 

Consell D’adminlstratlon 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 

Les Offlclers Executlf 

President 

Janet Adamson, Toronto, Ont. 

Presidents 

Past President 

Jocelyn Palm, Toronto, Ont. 

Ancienne Pr6sidente 

Secretary 

Patti Thom, Toronto, Ont. 

Secretaire 

Treasurer 

Skip Connett, Thornhill, Ont. 

Tr63orler 

Vice Pres. (Eastern) 

Ian Fowler, Moncton, N.B. 

Vice-president 

Vice Pres. (Western) 

Jan James, Ardrossan, Alta. 

Vice-pr6sidente 

Vice Pres. (Quebec) 

Ken Willis, Magog, Que. 

Vice-president 

Vice Pres. (Ontario) 

Sally Moore, Toronto, Ont. 

Vice-pr6sidente 

President Emeritus 

F.M. Van Wagner, Point Claire, 
Que. 

President 6m6rit6 

PROVINCIAL REPRESENTATIVES 

Repr6sentants Provinciaux 

Newfoundland 

Frank O’Connor 

La Terre Neuve 

Nova Scotia 

Kelley Byrne 

La Nouvelle Ecosse 

New Brunswick 

Dan Soucy 

Le Nouveau Brunswick 

Quebec 

Colette Pouliot-Marier 

Le Quebec 

Ontario 

Fred Okada 

L’Ontario 

Manitoba 

Grant Platts 

Le Manitoba 

Saskatchewan 

Penny Wingert 

Le Saskatchewan 

Alberta 

Bob Sperling 

L’Alberta 

British Columbia 

Jack Way 

La Colombia Britannique 

CCA COMMITTEES 


Comltes ACC 

Archives 

Bruno Morawetz, Peterborough, 
Ont. 

Les Archives 

Professional 


Le D6veloppement 

Development 

Dorothy Walter, Toronto. Ont. 

Professional 

National Conferences 


Les Ateliers et les 

and Workshops 

Glenn Barned, Victoria, BC/CB 

Conferences Nationales 

French Language 

Gerard Bachand, Rawdon, Que. 

Le Frangais 

Fund Raising 

Jack Pearse, Waterloo. Ont. 

Accumulation des Fonds 

Environment 

Jean Funk, Sherwood Pk., Alta. 

Le milieu 

Publications 

Nancy Barker, Seebe, Alta. 

Publications 

Magazine 

Camp Tawingo, Huntsville, Ont. 

Revue 

1987 Congress 


Liaison du congres 1987 

Liaison 

Dave Sands, Toronto, Ont. 


Adventure into the 


Liaison du voyage dans le 

Past Liaison 

Cliff Labbett, Toronto, Ont. 

passe 

Immigration 

Barry Lowes, Toronto, Ont. 

L'lmmigratlon 


NATIONAL OFFICE BUREAU NATIONAL 


Canadian Camping Association 
1806 Avenue Road, Ste. 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
(416) 781-4717 


Association des Camps du Canada 
1806 Avenue Road, Ste. 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
(416) 781-4717 


Administrative 

Secretary Irene Knapp Secretaire administrative 



Canadian Camping Association 
National Office/Siege Sociale 

1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, 

Toronto, Ont. M5M 3Z1 
Phone: (416) 781-4717 


2 





PRESIDENT’S 

MESSAGE 

This issue of the CCA/ACC Magazine features 
the Washington Congress held in March. What a 
great event it was! The contributions made by the 
Canadian team were many. I would like to 
mention in particular David Sands whose input 
to the Congress Steering Committee was of 
tremendous help to the American Camping 
Association. 


Now it is truly Spring and we individually prepare for our most 
important work of the year, our time at camp. Those of us who 
were at the Congress left with many insights but one stands out in 
my mind. It is the importance of the theme of the Congress “Our 
Fragile World”. I left determined to renew my efforts at camp to 
increase awareness of the natural environment and its fragility. 

By fortunate coincidence in Washington, many of us had the 
opportunity to visit an exhibit of Robert Bateman’s paintings and 
I copied this quote from the exhibit. 

“Nature today is under siege. The natural heritage of every 
continent is yielding to the forces of greed, so-called progress, 
overpopulation, starvation, wanton destruction and above 
all ignorance. 

Discovery is the beginning of knowledge and biological and 
ecological knowledge the beginning of environmental wisdom 
and meaningful conservation. 

But without inspiration there can be no discovery, knowledge, 
wisdom or action. That is why the roots of conservation are 
ultimately emotional and why the idealized images of paintings 
serve the cause of conservation.” 

We can inspire at our camps in so many ways and have an 
impact on hundreds of thousands of children at an emotional 
level, to build the roots of true conservation. 


by Janet Adamson 
President , C.C.A. /A.C.C. 



UN MOT 
DE LA PRESIDENTE 

Cette livraison de la revue de I’ACC/CCA 
met en vedette le congrds k Washington qui 
avait lieu en mars. Quel tenement! L’equipe 
^ canadienne contribuerent beaucoup. Je 

voudrais particulierement mentionner David 
Sands, l’6nergie de qui au comite d’organi- 
& sation du congr^s aiderent grandement 

_I’association des camps americains. 

Maintenant le printemps est vraiment arrive et nous 
prparons individuellement pour notre saison la plus 
importante, celle que nous passons au camp. Ceux de 
nous qui assistames au congrSs partirent avec bien de 
penetrations mais il y en a une qui est manifeste pour moi. 
C’est I’importance du theme du congrds “Notre monde 
fragile”. Je partis resolve de renouveier mes efforts au 
camp & augmenter la conscience de I’environnement 
nahurel et de sa fragility. 

Par coincidence heureuse k Washington, beaucoup de 
nous avions I’opportunite de rendre visite k une exposition 
de peintures de Robert Bateman et je copia cette citation 
de I’exposition. 

La nature d’aujourd’hui est en etat de siege. L’heritage 
naturel de chaque continent s’abandonne aux forces de 
gloutonnerie, du soi-aisant progres, de la surpopulation, 
de la faim, de la destruction injustifiee, et sur tout de 
I’ignorance. 

La decouverte est le debut de la connaissance et la 
connaissance biologique et ecologique le debut de la 
sagesse environnementale et de la conservation signifi¬ 
cative. 

Mais sans inspiration la decouverte, la connaissance, 
la sagesse et Taction sont toutes impossibles. C’est 
pour cette raison que les racines de la conservation sont 
un fin de compte emotionnelles et que les images 
idealises des peintures aident la cause de la con¬ 
servation. 

Nous pouvons inspirerde plusieurs fagons k nos camps 
et nous pouvons avoir un impacte sur des centaines de 
milles enfants a un niveau emotionnel, pour former les 
racines de la vraie conservation. 


CONTENTS 


PRESIDENT’S MESSAGE 

— Janet Adamson 

CAMPING FROM COAST TO COAST 
COMMITTEE NOTES 

BETWEEN THE COVERS 

— Nancy Barker 

SALUTE TO C.C.A.’S PATRONS 

SALUTE FROM THE A.C.A. PRESIDENT 
— Dick Chamberlain 

2ND INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS OPENING 

CONGRESS OPENING ADDRESS 
— Nancy Reagan 
Intro by Armand Ball 

TUESDAY AT THE CONGRESS 
WEDNESDAY AT THE CONGRESS 

THE AMBASSADOR OF FOLK SINGING 
— Pete Seeger 


OUR AMBASSADOR TO THE U.S.A. 

— Allan Gotlieb 

OPENING AND CLOSING AT THE CONGRESS 
— Ian Fowler 

INTERNATIONAL CAMPING AGREEMENT 
— Tom Slater 

PRODUCT DELIVERY PARADIGM 
— Shannon Etkin 

BELGIUM - ONTARIO EXCHANGE 
— Martin Hunt 
WHAT’S IN A NAME? 

MARCH OF DIMES NEW CAMPSITE 
BUBBY NASH AWARD 

CAMP AND CHARACTER 

— Bruce Elkin 
UNDER OPEN SKIES 

— Madelene Allen 
ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAMS 
— Jean Funk 


3 




CAMPING: 


From Coast To Coast 
D’une Cdte A L’Autre 



ATLANTIC REGION REPORT 

by IAN FOWLER 

ATLANTIC REGION VICE-PRESIDENT 

Old man winter has really blanketed the Atlantic Provinces this 
year, however, the provincial camping associations and their 
members have been enjoying an active period. 

Eighteen delegates from the region attended the 2nd Inter¬ 
national Camping Congress in Washington, D.C. From all 
reports, everyone enjoyed themselves and found the congress to 
be beneficial. 

Plans are currently underway in all provinces for spring 
conferences, while Newfoundland and Nova Scotia are preparing 
for their annual meetings. C.C.A. President, Janet Adamson, 
will be visiting Newfoundland to participate in their annual 
meeting. 

A tip of the hat should go to the Camping Association of Nova 
Scotia for their new membership kit and to Rachelle Bordeleau of 
the New Brunswick Camping Association who has just finished 
chairing a committee of dedicated individuals which developed 
guidelines for New Brunswick Camps. 

During the upcoming months, I look forward to meeting 
individuals involved with each of the provincial associations 
during my spring tour through the region. 


LES NOUVELLES DE LA REGION ATLANTIQUE 

par Ian Fowler, vice-president 

La neige recouvrit les provinces atlantiques cette annee, 
cependant, les associations des camps provincielles et 
leurs membres ^talent actifs. 

Dix-huit representants de la region assisferent au 
deuxfeme “International Camping Congress” qui avaient 
lieu & Washington, D.C. Selon tous les rapports, tout le 
monde s’y est amus6 et tout le monde I'a trouv6 salutaire. 

A ce moment, toutes les provinces s’occupent k 
organiser les conferences de printemps, pendant que la 
Terre Neuve et la Nouvelle Ecosse font des pfeparatifs 
pour leurs reunions annuel les. La pfesidente de I’ACC, 
Janet Adamson, rendra visite k la Terre Neuve pour 
participer k leur reunion. 

II faut feliciter I’association des camps de la Nouvelle 
Ecosse de leur nouvelle trousse d’adlfesion. T&licitations 
aussi k Rachelle Bordeleau de (’association des camps du 
Nouveau Brunswick d'avoir dlrigd un comlfe d’individus 
ddvoues qui developpa des iigres directrices pour les 
camps du Nouveau Brunswick. 

Pendant mon tour regional de printemps, j’aurai le plaisir 
de faire la connaissance de ceux qui sont engages dans 
chaque association provincielle. 






NEW BRUNSWICK 

Leadership development continues to be of 
high importance for the New Brunswick Camping 
Association. Twenty-two participants recently 
participated in the Winter Outdoor Skills Institute 
held at Fundy National Park. The Camp Director’s curriculum 
developed by the Canadian Camping Association will be the basis 
for the Camp Committee Workshop in April, with plans also 
underway for the May Counsellor/Director Conference, and the 
June Canoe Instructors Institute. 

A new directory of camps is now being printed, while the camp 
guidelines will be released in May. 

As well, the government plans to adopt legislation with regards 
to pools in the spring, which will have an impact on the camps. 

All in all, activity is busy within N.B.C. A. 

NOUVEAU BRUNSWICK 

Le cteveloppement des qualites de chefs 
continuent & etre d’une grande importance 
pour (’associations des camps du Nouveau 
Brunswick. Vingt-deux participants participant 
recemment au “Winter Outdoor Skills Institute” qui avait 
lieu & “Fundy National Park”. Le curriculum pour les 
directeurs des camps que I’association des camps 
canadiens developpa ser a la base pour le “Camp 
Committee Workshop” en avril, on organise aussi le 
“Counsellor/Director Conference” de mai et le “Canoe 
Instructors Institute” de juin. 

Un repertoire des camps s’impriment maintenant, tandis 
que les lignes directrices sortiront en mai. 

De plus, dans le printemps le gouvernement a I’intention 
d’adopter une legislation concernant les piscines, qui aura 
un impact sur les camps. 

Brievement, I’A.C.N.B. est charge d’activite. 

ONTARIO 

COMING EVENTS 
Thursday, April 23 Annual Meeting 

Saturday, May 9 Counsellor Conference 
Progress Campus 
Centennial College 
Friday & Saturday, May 22 - 23 Nurses’ Weekend Workshop 

Bolton Conference Centre 
June 12-15 OCA Skills School Weekend 

July & August The Best Camping Season for All of Canada 
Have a Great Summer. 

Right at this moment we are all looking forward to Washing¬ 
ton, D.C. and the second International Camping Congress. We 
look forward to meeting many of you at that time. 

We have just completed a tremendous conference (O.C.A. 
January 1987). Our many delegates and some from across 
Canada, were pleased with the content and, of course, the oppor¬ 
tunity to visit with all of our friends in camping. There was a very 
definite C.C.A. presence this year with their fundraising dinner. 
Everyone who participated had a wonderful Chinese dinner which 
began with a “RICKSHAW” ride to the restaurant. 

Busy as we are getting, with camp so near, you can see that 
many events are planned for the coming months. We hope that 
some of you will be able to participate. 

Have a safe summer filled with the sound of happy, healthy 
children enjoying their experience at camp. 





NOVA SCOTIA 

Nova Scotia has just initiated its 1987 
membership drive in late January. A very 
colourful and informative package was sent 
to all potential members and the responses, 
so far, have been very encouraging. Also in 
January, Ian Fowler spent a very valuable weekend with 
C.A.N.S. in putting our 2 year action plan together. It looks like 
we have some hard work ahead for us — thanks for the help Ian! 

On April 10-12, 1987, a conference entitled “Trails for 
Tomorrow” will be held in Halifax. Its purpose is to bring 
together trail users and individuals involved in the provision of 
trails to examine and present the future development of trails in 
the province of Nova Scotia. 

Plans are in the making for our upcoming annual meeting to be 
held on April 25, in Truro. We hope we will have a big turn out. 
There will be dinner and a very special guest speaker. 

On May 8 - 10, C.A.N.S. will hold its spring conference at 
Camp Hillis. This year the main focus is “The Role of the Camp 
Director” and our workshop co-ordinator is Mr. Fred Okada, 
O.C.A. The curriculum for Camp Director’s Manual will be 
featured as well. We’re very excited and hope the turn out will be 
better than ever. 

f® ALBERTA 

Our 1987 Conference was held at Pioneer 
Lodge. We had a total of 64 participants who 
thoroughly enjoyed the sessions, the great 
food, the informal sharing, the great food, 
special guest Janet Adamson, the great food, 
and the hayride and trail ride. (Did I mention the great food?) 
Two highlights of the weekend were the kick-off for the 
Curriculum for Camp Directors, and the presentation of an 
Honourary Life-Time AC A membership to Jan James. 

The next thriller is just around the corner—the second Inter¬ 
national Camping Congress (when this appears in print, the 
Congress will be history!). We have 27 delegates heading to 
Washington, and all are looking forward to meeting new 
Camping people as well as sharing the air space with Ron and 
Nancy. 

There has been a great deal of excitement as people prepare for 
the upcoming summer. February and March have been a great 
start to the camping season. 

BRITISH COLUMBIA 

Excerpts from B.C.C.A. 

General Meeting, January 29,1987 

Two-thirds of all B.C.C.A. Directory 
Questionnaires have been returned. 
Final date to be included in the 
Directory of Accredited Camps is February 15, 1987. The 
B.C.C.A. has received a number of inquiries for information 
concerning a B.C. Camping Experience for children from other 
countries. 

A complete First Aid in the Winderness Manual has been 
completed by Capilano College. The manual is available through 
the college. 

C.C.A. Magazine’s request for articles and pictures was 
brought up at the meeting. 

The B.C.C.A. Conference is being held March 27, 28 and 29 
at Parksville near Nanaimo. The title is INNOVATIONS IN 
LEADERSHIP; guest speaker is Michael Brandwein, pro¬ 
fessional leadership and educational trainer and consultant. 

The Annual General Meeting of the British Columbia Camping 
Association will be held on March 28, 1987. 




5 




Committee Notes/Les Notes Des Comites 


Archives Report 

In February of this year a letter was sent 
to all Provincial Archives Chairmen, or to 
the Provincial President concerning the 
collection of material for C.C.A./A.C.C. 
Archives at Trent University in Peter¬ 
borough, Ontario. 

I would urge your member camps to 
collect as much written material as 
possible and have it lodged in your own 
provincial archives. It would be terrific if 
your association could get in touch with 
our C.C.A./A.C.C. Archivist and 
initiate a flow of material directly. One of 
the ways of collecting archival material is 
to interview persons who are playing 
important roles in camping — these too 
can be lodged and catalogued in an 
archival collection. 

The “BROWN BAG” idea for C.C.A. 
is a super one — let’s use it to mail 
MINUTES, NOTICES AND 
PROGRAMS, NEWSLETTERS and all 
other printed material used by your 
association or its committees. 

Mail all material to: 

THE ARCHIVIST, 

TRENTY UNIVERSITY, 
PETERBOROUGH, ONT. K9J 7B8 

Bruno Morawetz, Archives 

Les rapport des archives 

F6vrier de cette ann§e, on a envoys 
une lettre concernant le rassemble- 
ment des materiaux pour les archives 
de PAcc/CCA k Trent University k 
Peterborough, Ontario a chaque 
president des archives on k chaque 
president des associations 
provincielles. Je pousserais vos 
camps k accumuler autant de 
materiaux Merits que possible et de 
les mettre dans vos propres archives 
provinciels. On I’apprecierait bien si 
votre association se mettrait en 
contact avec notre archiviste de 
I’ACC/CCA pour inaugurer 
directement un flot de materiaux. Un 
des moyens d’accumuler les 
materiaux archivels e’est 
d’interviewer ceux qui jouent un rdle 
important dans le camping — ces 
interviews aussi peuvent etre 
catalogues dans une accumulation. 

L’idee de “Brown Bag” pour I’ACC 
est superbe — utilisons — la pour 
envoyer les comptes rendus, les avis 
et les programmes, les bulletins et 
d’autres materiaux imprimes utilises 
par votre association ou ses comites. 
Envoyez tous materiaux k: 

The Archivist, 

Trent University 
Peterborough, Ontario K9J 7B8 

Bruno Morawetz, Archives 


Commission des camps 
d’expression frangaise 

D6s la fin janvier nous publiions la 
deuxteme Edition du repertoire des 
camps d’expression frangaise, hors 
Quebec (Incef ’87), et ce gtece au 
Conseil de la Vie Frangaise en 
Amerique et du Ministre des Affaires 
Intergouvernementales. Des 
exemplaires sont disponibles au 
bureau de I’ACC/CCA e Toronto. 

Nous avons aussi eiabore une 
politique linguistique pour I’ACC/ 
CCA afin de nous rendre conforms 
aux lois du bilinguisme des 
organismes nationaux. Ces 
politiques, dotees aussi d'une 
politique de traduction, devraient etre 
approuv6es par le Bureau de 
Direction de I’ACC/A d’ici le 
printemps. Je crois que ces 
politiques permettront une meilleure 
participation des camps d’expression 
frangaise aux activites de 
I’association. 

Actuellement nous effectuons un 
mini sondage auptes des camps 
inscrits k Incef ‘87, afin de mieux 
identifier quels sont leurs besoins en 
tant que camps de vacances. Ceci 
nous permettra d’elaborer des projets 
adaptes et susceptibles d’arrteliorer 
la participation francophone dans le 
monde des camps, et ce dans 
chacune des provinces. 

Gerard Bachand 

COMMITTEE OF THE 
FRENCH LANGUAGE CAMPS 

Thanks to the Council of French Life in 
America and the Minister of Inter¬ 
governmental Affairs, we published the 
second edition of the catalogue of French 
Language Camps outside of Quebec 
(Incef ‘87) at the end of January. Copies 
are available at CCA/ACC office in 
Toronto. 

We have also developed a language 
policy for the CCA /ACC so that we will 
conform to the bilingualism laws of 
national bodies. These policies, providing 
also a translation policy, should be 
approved by the Head Office of the 
CCA/ACC by Spring. I believe that these 
policies will allow for greater participation 
by French Language Camps in activities 
of the CCA. 

At this time we are running a mini- 
poll of member camps of Incef ‘87, in 
order to better identify their needs as 
summer camps. This will allow us to 
develop projects that will help to improve 
francophone participation in the camping 
community in each province. 

Gerard Bachand 


Professional Development 
Committee 

At the meetings in Moncton, N.B. all 
provincial representatives were en¬ 
couraged to develop ways in which their 
association could benefit from the 
impetus of the launching of the Camp 
Director’s Curriculum. 

For the committee, the next worry was 
to get the Curriculum printed and circu¬ 
lated. With special help from our 
President, Janet Adamson, the printer 
produced the copy for proof-reading and 
then, on the eve of the Ontario Con¬ 
ference, the binders were delivered. 

Distribution to the provinces has begun 
and this Committee will begin to discuss 
the follow-up strategies which could help 
each association’s education committee to 
run events, to increase the knowledge of 
camp staff through the Curriculum and to 
develop ways of that happening. 

We anticipate that the initial rush of 
sales will continue and trust that each 
province will find the Curriculum a good 
tool for professional development. 

Dorothy Walter 


Le comite du 

developpement professionnel 

Aux reunions a Moncton, N.B., on 
poussa tous les reptesentants 
provinciels k ctevelopper des 
avantages que leur association peut 
trouver de I’etan de la publication du 
curriculum des directeurs des camps. 

Le prochain souci pour le comite 
6tait d’avoir impritrte le curriculum et 
de le distribuer. A I’aide specials de 
notre ptesidente, Janet Adamson, 
I'imprimeur produisit la copie pour la 
correction des epreuves et puis la 
veille de la conference de I’Ontario, 
les classeurs etaient livtes. 

On a commence k les distribuer 
aux provinces et ce comite 
commencera k discuter des 
strategies qui aideraient le comite 
educatif de chaque association k 
organiser des evenements, k 
augmenter la connaissance des 
employes des camp grSce ou 
curriculum et k d6velopper des 
moyens de le faciliter. 

Nous attendons k ce que la 
bousculade de ventes continuent et 
nous esperons que chaque province 
trouvererons que le curriculeur est un 
bon outil pour le developpement 
professionnel. 

D. Walter 






C.C.A. SALUTES YOU, PATRONS! 

The Canadian Camping Association is eternally grateful to the following 
individuals and camps who contributed so generously to C.C.A.’s 50th Anniversary 
Patrons’ Fund in support of the ongoing work of the Camping movement in 
Canada. To date, the donations total $11,918.11. Our heartfelt thanks go out to you, 
folks. Way to go! 

50TH ANNIVERSARY PATRONS’ FUND DONORS 


PAUL ABRA 

GERARD BACHAND 

MAURICE BLAQUIERE 

HUGH & CAROLEA BUTTERS 

CANADIAN ADVENTURE CAMP (F.B. Skip Connett) 

CAMP GAY VENTURE (Janet Adamson) 

HALIBURTON HOCKEY HAVEN 

CAMP KAWABI (Bruce Harris) 

CAMP NEW MOON (Al Goodman) 

CAMP OCONTO (The Wilsons) 

CAMP ROBIN HOOD (Larry Bell) 

CAMP TANAMAKOON (Kim Smith) 

CAMP TAWINGO 

THE TAYLOR STATTEN CAMPS 

CAMP TRAILFINDER (Paul Rushton) 

CAMP WAHANOWIN (Harold Nashman) 

CAMP WHITE PINE (Joe Kronick) 

YMCA CAMP WANAKITA (Rob Heming) 

NANCY CANNON 

CRAIG COPLAND (Christian Children’s Fund 
of Canada) 

BERT AND DOT DANSON 

DR. A. T. EASLEY 

ANN PREWITT EATON 

DR. AND MRS. J. HARRY EBBS 

IAN AND SUSAN FOWLER 

OWEN FRASER 

BARBARA GILCHRIST 


IRWIN HALADNER 
SAM HAMBLY 

RON & MICKEY JOHNSTONE 

VIIU KANEP 

ELEANOR KAY 

DR. MARY KEYES 

CLIFF LABBETT 

PEGGY & JOHN LATIMER 

JACQUELINE LAVOIE 

JACK MACKENZIE 

EILEEN MAYOTTE 

JANE McCUTCHEON 

PAUL S. McLEAN 

DR. BRUNO MORAWETZ 

FRED OKADA 

JOCELYN PALM 

DR. FRED REIMERS 

FRANCES & HANK ROESSINGH 

DAVID SANDS 

BOB SMITH 

KIM & MARILYN SMITH 
BOB SPERLING 
PATTI THOM 

PETER & F. M. VAN WAGNER 
DOROTHY WALTER 
ELIZABETH WEGENAST 
JOHN H. WILKINSON 
DR. KEN WILLIS 


8 






The International Camping Congress 
... an American Viewpoint 

by Dick Chamberlain 

President of the American Camping Association 


Greetings . . . friends in the Canadian 
Camping Association! 

Do you realize WHAT YOU HAVE 
GOING FOR YOU? 

I want to share what I believe you have 
going for you . . . looked at within the 
context of our recent, jointly-hosted 
(CCA & AC A) International Camping 
Congress, March 2-6, 1987 in Wash¬ 
ington, D.C. 

You have Janet Adamson, your CCA 
President. I had the opportunity at the 
Congress to get to know Janet. We 
greeted Nancy Reagan together; we stood 
together in line with your Ambassador to 
Washington while receiving visitors at the 
Canadian Embassy; we co-hosted an 
international gathering of camping 
representatives from 16 countries ... a 
gathering that will hopefully lead toward 
the creation of an international camping 
fellowship. And I thank Janet and your 
CCA Board for presenting me with an 
Honourary Membership! 

You have Jack Pearse, Jane 
McCutcheon, Jim Knowlton, Tom 
Knowlton and Mark Baldwin of the Boys’ 
Camp Band and Camp Tawingo. Jack 
and his friends have been bringing their 
music and representation of your 
country to ACA national conventions for 
many years so it was a natural to see them 
at this International Congress. 

You have John Latimer, your Past 
President, who gave a wonderful intro¬ 
duction of Pete Seeger . . . who set up the 
Reception at the Canadian Embassy . . . 
who moved with warmth and wit from 
person to person. 

You have over 150 Members, 27 as 
Interest Group/Workshop/General 
Session Presentors, who made an impact 
on the entire Congress from the Exhibit 
area to program sessions to special events. 

You have David Sands, who as CCA’s 
representative to the Steering Committee 
attended all 10 or 11 meetings of the 
Committee; was of enormous help with 
details at the General Sessions; and found 
vast numbers of CCA members when help 
was needed to consume gigantic amounts 
of left-over ice cream in Congress 
Manager Jack Murdock’s Congress 
Hospitality Room! 

Most of all . . . you brought a refresh¬ 
ing spirit that permeated this Congress. I 

believe that the ties between CCA and 
ACA have grown stronger in recent years: 


between national representation as our 
two organizations find ways to work 
together; between members visiting each 
other’s camps. And that is great! We have 
much to give each other and much to learn 
from each other. 


I’m glad to write these words for a 
magazine which has been coming to my 
home for over a decade. And I am 
especially glad for this opportunity, in 
print, to affirm the growing professional 
relationships and friendships between our 
two camping organizations. 


:::::::::: m :::: :: ~:::: :: :::::::::::: &&2C :::::: :c:::: :: r: 

WRITE TO It 

FREE! j.. ! 


j: - Canada's Most Complete Ifotheutah Catalog - 

*’• Complete Do -It-Yoursclf supplies and k.«ls lot 
IEATHERCRAFI PlASTlC. COPPFP and CANDU 
t-2 CRAFT. Write today <or complrir- information on 
•• all of these r#.wordmq and profitable crofts. 


WRITE TO * 

X 

v K 

P.O. BOX 340 

BARRIE, ONTARIO K 


IT COSTS NOTHING TO GET THE FACTS 


5 Name 


Address 


I Cify 


^- e a CO u ' 

r^^"’Ss»e. *** 


-' rh\s a lSS ue. r- 


w<w- 

reP^Y' cartel !!- 


. Prov. 


RUSH COUPON TODAY 


We’re ready to go to work for you! 


Tandy Leather has been 
in the camp craft busi¬ 
ness for over 60 years! 
We understand the prob¬ 
lems that you have 
with camp crafts. 

And at Tandy 
Leather, we’re ready 
to help you with '. 

the solutions. ij 

Nobody offers a A* 

more complete jm 

camp leathercraft 
programme than 'Jm 

Tandy Leather 
We are Canadas ym 

leader in 
leathercraft. 


CALL NOW 
COLLECT 
1-705-728-2481 


*4 & i 

’ AVI 


Of 



Canada’s #7 Leader in 
Leather & Leathercraft 


Get 60 years of craft 
experience in 60 minutes! 

Just give us an hour toexplain 
our time-proven camp lea¬ 
thercraft programme to you 
k It may well be the most 
productive hour you’ll 
spend this year. 

re B Call us now for 
KV, jyour appointment 

We’re waiting to show 
you how to save 
money by making 
BB leathercraft a major 
^7 part of your programme. 


OR WRITE: 

Tandy Leather Co. 
Dept. CCAS-87 
P.O. Box 13,000 
Barrie, Ontario 
L4M 4W4 


9 









OPENING THE CONGRESS 
WITH STYLE 


The opening for the gala evening was provided in classic style by Jack 
Pearse and the Boys' Camp Band who led over 1600 people in group 
singing. From (L-R) Mark Baldwin, Tom Knowlton and Jim Knowlton. 


Other members of the head party included (L-R) Janet Adamson, 
President of CCA, Sonja Staff, wife of Otto Rosahn; T. N. Kaul, Indian 
Ambassador to Russia and guest speaker at the Otto Rosahn Memorial 
Lecture, Dr. Takishi Yoshida, President of the National Camping 
Association of Japan, Dick Chamberlain, President of AC A. 


Up With People, a dynamic and energetic troupe of young singers and The 90 minute show included songs of energy and inspiration as well as 
dancers presented an international variety show to an equally inter- dances from around the world. Needless to say Congress participants 

national audience. were impressed and ready for a great week of camping growth. 


The First Lady of the United States and of camping opened the 
Second International Camping Congress with a few remarks. She 
reminisced about her early camping days and encouraged us all in our 
work. 


Armand Ball, Executive Vice President of the American Camping 
Association introduced Nancy Reagan and the rest of the head party. 




10 


















OPENING CEREMONIES: 

2ND INTERNATIONAL CAMPING CONGRESS 


Introduction of Mrs. Nancy Reagan 
by Mr. Armand Ball, Executive Vice-President of the 
American Camping Association 


I am here to welcome you to the 2nd International Camping 
Congress and we are mighty glad you are here , every one of 
you. We are particularly happy to start off these festivities in 
this week of fellowship together with a very special guest. A 
couple of years ago we had a visitor who came to join us at a 
camp up in New Jersey where we had lots of fun together. She is 
the First Camper in this country, a former camper who finally 
left camp but she loves camp and we enjoyed that day watching 
her talk with the children , enjoy the children as she wandered 
around camp and then as she shared some words with us. We 
are very happy this evening to have with us our First Lady, 
Mrs. Nancy Reagan. 


MRS. NANCY REAGAN: 


Thank you for the nice welcome. I am delighted that you asked 
me to come. As has been said I am one of your biggest supporters 
because I went to camp and I absolutely adored it — I loved it. I 
always used to love it when people would come up and ask me 
where I went to camp and I would say, “Camp Katchewa” and 
they would say, “Where is Camp Katchewa?” and I would say, 
“Well, it is near Michigami.” And they would say, “Where is 
Michigami?” and I said, “It is near Ishkaming.” Well, by that 
time they were completely lost. But, seriously, I started at about 9 
or 10 years old and I went every summer for the whole summer 
until the age limit forced me to stop. We did all the wonderful 
things that I have so many great memories about ... we slept in 
tents, we would get up early and go for a dip before breakfast in 
cold, cold water, really cold, brush our teeth with salt in the 
water, went canoeing — I got very good at feathering my paddle, 
very good at that — we even had leeches. I don’t think most 
people associate me with leeches. Or how to get them off, but I 
know how to get them off, I became an expert very quickly. We 
had great, great memories, great memories and of course, you 
always remember the staff. Camp Katchewa was run by the three 
Ross sisters who were wonderful and I have very fond memories 
of them too. But the Ross sisters bring me to my serious message 
this evening. The influence of camp directors and counsellors 
have on the young. 

You have the chance to help give our children something very 
essential to their development — self-esteem. Self-esteem won’t 
heal a nose that has been skinned on the diving board, it won’t 
dry up poison ivy, it won’t take the swelling out of a twisted ankle 
but it is the best cure-all, the best preventative the children can 
receive to be taught to believe in themselves. You know someone 
was once sitting next to Martin Luther King junior at an 
educational conference and a woman had just presented a paper 
entitled “First Teach Them To Read”. Dr. King leaned over and 
said, “First teach them to believe in themselves.” I think that that 



Nancy Reagan Armand Ball, Dick Chamberlain 


is the key. I was once on a television show that involved audience 
participation and a teenage girl in the back of the room put up her 
hand and said, “But Mrs. Reagan, you can’t possibly understand 
the pressures that we are under at school and the tests and the sex 
and the drugs and everything else,” and I gave her some answer 
and we went on to answer other questions but I didn’t really think 
that I had answered her properly or fully enough so we went back 
and I said, “Do you know you are going to have pressures all of 
your life, your whole life and the only thing that changes is that 
those pressures are going to get worse.” My mother had a saying 
“Little children, little problems, big children, big problems.” But 
if you don’t learn how to handle them now when you are young 
you’ll be in big trouble when you get older because you have to 
learn to cope. I believe self-esteem gives children the strength to 
cope, not with just avoiding drugs, or alcohol but with life itself. 
And this self-confidence is especially important to our children 
from low-income and inner-city environments because they need 
even more strength to overcome the obstacles that they face. I 
think camp helps these children understand that they can have 
some control over their lives and then they learn that they have a 
chance. There is a saying, “The days that make us happy make us 
wise. But happy days also make us stronger because they give us 
confidence that we can meet the future,” and that is what camp 
can do and that is what you can do. I realize that when the camp 
bus breaks down or the shed catches fire it is sometimes hard to 
see the larger perspective but you are helping to mold the future 
generations of this country. If our children are confident and 
loving and tolerant and decent, America herself will reflect those 
qualities. So, I stopped by this evening because I wanted you to 
know how important I think your work is and to each of you I 
just want to say how much I admire you and how much I 
appreciate all that you are doing for our young people. 

Thank you very much. 


11 






OUR FRAGILE WORLD 

TUESDAY, MARCH 3, 1987 


A gala opening to the Exhibit Hall! 


Some of our 150 booths in the Exhibit Hall. 


Dick Chamberlain, president of the ACA is made an honourary 
member of the CCA by its president, Janet Adamson. 


A hearty handshake amongst three great leaders in their respective 
fields. Pete Seeger (L), the father of folk music, Larry Eisenberg, the 
master of social recreation and Jack Pearse (R), the master of singsong 
leadership met in Washington and savoured the moment together. 


by Mike Walters 

The day dawned bright and full of excitement as the Canadian 
contingent prepared tor the first full day of sessions. Attending a 
week-long conference takes a lot of energy, but energy was 
certainly in abundance for the Canadian crew today! One of the 
first tasks of the day involved choosing a personal program from 
the seventy-three (73) seminars, workshops and interest sessions 
listed for Tuesday! People huddled everywhere, comparing notes 
and asking questions in an effort to obtain maximum benefits 
from the day. The kinds of sessions available seemed endless — 
but I heard no complaints about not having a certain topic or area 
well covered. 

Perhaps today’s biggest highlight was the Grand Opening of 
the Exhibit Hall. This indeed was an extravaganza, with over 160 
participating exhibitors and a huge variety of booths, 
merchandise and services related to camping on display. The 
Canadian impressions of the Exhibit Hall were really favorable 
and many people expressed their excitement about contacts made 
and new ideas gained! 

As the day continued into the afternoon, I had an opportunity 
to visit and conduct mini-interviews on a variety of topics. 
Comments regarding sessions and speakers were unanimously 
favorable and it seemed that everyone had a personal favorite 
that was different from the next person’s. 

Tuesday evening brought about a “Night on the Town” and 
the Canadian delegates poured out into the streets to see the sights 
of the city. Many people enjoyed getting to the sights on 
Washington’s modern new subway system. 

All in all, a very memorable first full day at the 2nd Inter¬ 
national Camping Congress! 


12 









OUR FRAGILE WORLD 

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 4, 1987 



by Marjorie Booth 


Pete Seeger and ‘Tony the Tiger’ started off the day for the 
delegates at a special breakfast general session sponsored by 
Kellogg’s. Following an outstanding meal, Janet Adamson, 
C.C.A./A.C.C. President, introduced John Latimer, Chairman 
of the International Congress held in Canada in 1983. 

John Latimer’s remarks were humorous and full of memories 
as he wove a tale about the keynote speaker, Pete Seeger. Dele¬ 
gates thoroughly enjoyed Seeger’s comments and music. He 
challenged us to think globally and act locally while sharing his 
thoughts about the world, youth and what we could be doing to 
improve our world. It was wonderful to hear 1700 people singing 
with a legendary folk singer “Last Night I had the Strangest 
Dream”. 

The Canadians topped off the day with a Reception at the 
Residence of the Canadian Ambassador to the United States. 
Ambassador Gotlieb and Mrs. Gotlieb welcomed us to their 
residence and everyone enjoyed the fellowship. Unfortunately, 
one bus trip over was quite eventful as we fought rush hour traffic 
to go to the Embassy rather than to the correct location (where 
was the driver’s compass?) 

The C.C.A./A.C.C. delegates and our special guests from the 
American Camping Association and the National Camping 
Association of Japan thoroughly enjoyed the reception. 

Several Canadians went to the ‘I Believe’ fundraising evening 
at the Ford’s Theatre. Others Finished the day at an N.B.A. 
basketball game, enjoying dinner in Georgetown, or sending 
friends on wild goose chases to the airport. Imagine Canadian 
Camp Capers happening in Washington?! 


Dave Sands was up to his armpits all week as Canadian Liaison to the 
Congress Committee . Here he selects the name of an exhibit hall prize 
winner. 



The AC A book store, directed by Bev Ball, was busy all week. The j ac k Pearse (L) and Michael Brandwein practise doing double takes 
Authors’Corner was a special highlight because many authors were on over dessert. Actually, Michael had just "double taken" dessert — 
hand to conduct sessions as well as autographing their books. his and Jack’s. 


13 









WEDNESDAY MORNING WITH THE AMBASSADOR 
OF FOLK MUSIC TO OUR FRAGILE WORLD 


jj£r 


1 ||. r 


4 W 1 




m jPifi S 


M 


> JSk 

♦ i 






Janet Adamson chaired the morning session which included a 
scrumptious breakfast provided by Kellogg’s. Over 1500 people “started 
the day off right” with Tony the Tiger and we all felt “G-G-Great!” 
John Latimer, Assistant to Director of Protocol in Ontario introduced 
Pete Seeger . 


Pete Seeger, the guest speaker at the morning session chats with 
someone off stage. He chatted with the entire group just as easily on a 
variety of issues affecting our fragile world. 


It wouldn’t be Pete Seeger without some 
singing. We started with "Rise and Shine” and 
sang our way through his session to “Last 
Night I had the Strangest Dream. ” 


Pete invited questions from the audience and 
then responded to those questions in the second 
half of his session. The nuclear threat, children 
who bring war toys to camp, and the power of 
music were some of those questions. 


Pete talked of the Clearwater Project to 
clean up the Hudson River. With people 
“swimming in the Hudson again ” he described 
the power of the little people who believe 
strongly in what they are doing. 


Pete lives in rural New York. He harvests maple syrup, lives and loves 
to be near the land and believes in people. Pete is turned on to camping 
(his brother, John, owns and operates Camp Killooleet in Vermont) and 
camping is turned on to Pete Seeger . Sing Out! 


Pete Seeger poses with some of the international delegates of the 
Congress. One delegate presented Pete with a jar of preserves as a 
“Thank you”. 


14 







































WEDNESDAY EVENING WITH THE AMBASSADOR 
OF CANADA TO THE UNITED STATES 


Diane Blair (Camp Gay Venture) moves 
through the official receiving line which in¬ 
cluded the Ambassador and Mrs. Gotlieb , Dick 
Chamberlain, President of AC A and Janet 
Adamson , President of CCA. 


Ambassador Allan Gotlieb (L) poses in the foyer of his residence with 
Janet Adamson, President of CCA and Dave Sands , CCA Liaison to the 
2nd International Camping Congress. 


Edie Klein, president elect of the AC A (second from left) was one of 
several special guests from the AC A at the Canadian reception. With her 
are Marjorie Booth (Mooredale Day Camp), Mike Southam (Camp 
Otterdale), Keith Singh (Ontario-Belgium Exchange). 


A great time was had by everyone including Jane Crawford (Moore - 
lands Camp), Megan Jentz (Camp Chief Hector), Dave Lyons (Camp 
Wanakita), Kayrin Russell (Camp Chief Hector), Janet McLean 
(Toronto YMCA). 


Sampling tasty tidbits and casual conversation, Wayne Perkins 
(Calgary YMCA ) and Dorothy Walter (CCA Professional Development 
Committee) pause for a photo. 


15 









IMPRESSIONS — OPENING AND CLOSING PLENARY SESSIONS 
2ND INTERNATIONAL CAMPING CONGRESS 


by Ian Fowler 

As 1700 delegates entered the Regency Ballroom at the 
Shoreham Hotel in Washington, D.C. for the opening session of 
the 2nd International Camping Congress on March 2nd, it 
became apparent the Canadian Camping Association was well 
represented from coast to coast, and before the week would 
conclude, the world would realize the camping movement in 
Canada was alive and well. 

Canada’s presence was noted from the moment one entered the 
hall as a C.C.A. logo was prominently displayed just below the 
American Camping Association logo located on the stage 
podium. To lead off the evening, the Congress Committee looked 
to Canada and a rousing sing song with Jack Pearse and the Boys’ 
Camp Band. If camp people have one common trait, it must be 
singing, as the hall quickly came alive to the sounds of 
Skinamarink and This Land Is Your Land. 

A special feature of the opening was a brief address by the First 
Lady of the United States, Mrs. Nancy Reagan. Mrs. Reagan was 
warmly received by the delegates and spoke highly of the camping 
movement and the leaders involved in the camping community. 
Being a former camper herself, she also addressed memories of 
her experiences and the positive impact camping has on today’s 
Youth. Mrs. Reagan was thanked by four young campers from 
the Washington area who presented A.C. A. jackets to her for use 
by the President and herself on their ranch. This could be termed 
another one of those memorable occasions for the four campers. 

Prior to hearing from the evening’s keynote speaker Jack and 
the Boys’ Camp Band introduced a new song to the delegates, one 
that typifies the general philosophy of camp people. Entitled 
“We Can Make A Difference” the words certainly stayed with 
each delegate throughout the week and should a 45 record been 
available enough copies to earn “Gold” recognition would 
probably have been sold. 

Keynote speaker for the evening was T. N. Kaul, India’s 
Ambassador to the Soviet Union. Although not a camp person, 
Mr. Kaul addressed several points related to the congress theme 
“Our Fragile Environment.” Kaul reminded each of us we must 
have the courage of our conviction and a sense of commitment to 
the problems which not only surround us, but also our 
neighbours. He urged all of us to unite calling for world peace 
and free of the threat of destruction of our environment. 

Finally Kaul outlined a twelve point program which he trusted 
the camping community would undertake to enhance today’s 
world. 

The basis of his program was to promote the out of doors as a 
means of protecting our environment allowing for people to work 
together, united for a common cause. 


Comme 1700 congressistes entr6rent dans le “Regency 
Ballroom” au “Shoreham Hotel” £ Washington, D.C. pour 
la stance pr&liminaire du deuxl&me “International 
Camping Congress” le deux mars, II fut apparent que 
I’association des camps canadlens se repr&sente bien du 
pays entier, et avant la fin de la semaine, le monde verra 
que le mouvement de camping du Canada soit bien en vie. 

La presence du Canada 6tait §vidente du moment de 
I’entr6e dans la salle. Un logo de I’ACC se montre 
frappament juste en bas du logo de I’association des 
camps am6ricains sur le podium de l’estrade. Pour 
commencer la soiree, le comite du congrds compta sur le 


Kaul’s address had great significance as camping represen¬ 
tatives from eighteen countries were present in the hall and in 
keeping with the song “We Can Make A Difference” perhaps it 
will be camp leaders from around the world who respond to 
Kaul’s program to preserve our fragile environment. 

Following Kaul’s message, the ballroom came alive to the 
singing and dancing of “Up With People”, an entourage of 100 
youth from around the world. “Up With People” provide five 
touring groups which travel throughout the world displaying 
youth in action. Each troupe consists of approximately 100 
participants with individuals making a volunteer commitment of 
one year to the group. Surprisingly, the majority of the group do 
not have previous singing and dancing experience, which is hard 
to believe after having seen the performance. 

“Up With People” provided a solid send off for the week 
ahead. 

As delegates lingered to talk with performers, others renewed 
old friendships while others left, floating in the clouds from the 
uplifting evening. The 2nd International Camping Congress 
was off to the type of beginning the steering committee had hoped 
for. 

Time flew by during the next four days, as delegates enjoyed 
excellent seminars, obtained new ideas in the exhibit hall, enjoyed 
all of Washington’s attractions and huddled over coffee for 
casual conversation. 

Thursday evening came far too soon as the delegates again 
gathered together for the closing session. As with any camp event, 
singing is always present, so once again delegates joined with Jack 
Pearse and the Boys’ Camp Band to unwind after a belt loosening 
meal. 

Keynote speaker for the evening was Mr. William Penn Mott 
Jr., Director of the United States Parks Service. Mr. Mott’s 
address centered on the national park system and the changes 
occuring in the system. 

Although his address was American oriented, it was interesting 
to cross reference what is happening in U.S. parks with the 
approaches being taken by Parks Canada. Of particular interest 
to me was the fact that user fees collected by American Parks are 
utilized for capital improvements in the park system. Perhaps 
Canadian user fees would be better accepted if such were the case. 

The evening was complete with a presentation outlining the 
establishment of an International Camping Committee. This 
was an effort developed at the Congress through the efforts of the 
various national presidents. By networking together, the entire 
camping community will benefit. 

Finally, a lighter entertainment prevailed as a slide show of 
Congress week activities refreshed everyone’s memories of an 
excellent week of camp fellowship and as delegates said farewell, 
thoughts turned to the 3rd International Congress and the closing 
line of a song, “Til We Meet Again.” 


Canada et sur I'opportunite de chanter avec enthousiasme 
en choeur avec Jack Pearse and the Boys’ Camp Band. Si 
les gens de camping ont quelque chose en commun, ga 
doit dtre le chant, car la salle est devenue pleine de vie aux 
sons de “Skinamarink” et de “This Land is Your Land”. 

Une partie sp6ciale de I’ouverture 6tait un discours bref 
par la premiere dame des Etats-Unis, Mme Nancy Reagan. 
Les congressistes regurent chaudement Mme Reagan et 
elle dit beaucoup de bien du mouvement de Camping et 
des dirigeants du monde de camping. Etant elle-meme une 
vieille campeuse, elle pr6senta des souvenirs de ses 
experiences. Elle discuta aussi I’lmpacte positif qu’a le 


16 



camping sur la jeunesse d’aujourd’hui. Quatre jeunes 
campeurs de la region de Washington remercterent Mme 
Reagan et lui donnerent des jaquettes de I’ACA pour le 
President et elle. On peut dire que cette presentation etait 
encore un evenement memorable pour les quatre 
campeurs. 

Avant du discours-programme, Jack et The Boys Camp 
Band introduisirent une nouvelle chanson aux 
congressistes. C’etait une chanson qui refletait la 
philosophie generate des gens de camping. Les paroles de 
la chanson, entitulee “We Can Make A Difference”, 
resterent avec chaque congressisle pendant toule la 
semaine, et si un disque avait ete disponible, c’est 
probable que tout le monde I’aurait achete. 

Le discours-programme etait presente par T. N. Kaul, 
I’ambassadeur de I’lnde a I’Union Sovietique. Bien qu’il ne 
soit pas campeur, M. Kaul s’adressa le theme du congres 
“Notre monde fragile”. Kaul rapella chacun de nous qu’il 
faut avoir le courage de nos opinions et le sentiment de 
responsabilite aux problemes qui nous entourent, et a 
ceux de nos voisins. II nous pressa de s’unir pour le paix et 
contre le menace de la destruction & laquelle notre monde 
fait face. 

Finalement Kaul exposa les grandes lignes d’un 
programme de douze idees avec I’espoir que le monde de 
camping I’adopterait pourameliorer notre monde. 

La base de son programme etait de presenter le plein air 
comme moyen de proteger notre environnement, tout en 
coop^rant. 

Le discours de Kaul etait important puis qu’il y avait des 
representants de dix-huit pays; il etait, aussi, en rapport 
avec la chanson “We Can Make a Difference”. Peut-etre 
que ce sera les dirigeants du camping du monde entier qui 
reponeront au programme de Kaul pour proteger notre 
environnement fragile. 

Suivant le message de Kaul, la salle de danse s’anima 
avec le chant et la danse groupe “Up With People”, un 
entourage de 100 jeunes du monde entier. “Up With 
People” a cinq groupes qui voyagent partout dans le 
monde montrant leurs activites chaque troupe a a peu pres 
100 participants, chacun de qui s’offre pendant une annee. 
Apr6s avoir vu la representation, c’est difficile de croire 
que la majorite de ces jeunes n’ont pas d’experience 
prealable de ce genre. 


“Up With People” fournit un succ^s fort pour le 
commencement de la semaine. 

Quelques congressistes resterent pour bavarder avec 
les interpretes, d’autres renouvellerent des amities, 
pendant que d’autres partirent, etant dans les nuages 
apres la soiree elevante. Le deuxieme “International 
Camping Congress” commenga d’une maniere comme 
avait espere le comite d’organisation. 

Le temps passa vite pendant les quatre jours qui 
suivirent, comme les congressistes assisterent aux 
seminaires excellents, obtenirent de nouvelles idees 
dans la salle d’objets exposes, s’amuserent aux charmes 
de Washington, et formerent des petits groupes, bavardant 
et boissant du cafe. 

Jeudi soir arriva trop tot comme les congressistes se 
reunirent pour la cloture. Comme on fait pour n’importe 
quel evenenent de camping, on chanta avec Jack Pearse 
and the Boys Camp Band pour se detendre apres un repas 
substantiel. 

M. William Penn Mott Jr., directeur du “United States 
Parks Service” donna le discours-programme. Dans son 
adresse, M. Mott tourna du systeme des pares nationaux 
et des changements qui s’y produisent. 

Bien que son discours s’orientat d’un point de vue 
americain, c’etait interessant de comparer les fagons 
d’administrer les pares canadiens a ceux des pares 
americains. J’ai trouve important le fait que les frais que 
les pares americains percevoient sutilisent pour les 
developpements du systeme des pares. Peut-etre que les 
Canadiens accepteraient mieux les frais si nous airons le 
meme systeme. 

La soiree n’etait complete sans presentation qui decrivit 
I’etablissement d’un comite des camps internationaux 
plusieurs presidents nationaux developp^rent cet effort au 
congres. En cooperant, le monde entier de camping en 
profitera. 

Finalement, un divertissement d’un ton plus leger 
predomina comme des diapositives de la semaine 
rafraichirent les memoires d’une semaine excellente 
pleine de camaraderie. Comme les congressisles dirent 
“adieu”, les pensies se dirigerent vers le troisieme 
“International Congress” et vers la derniere ligne d’un 
chanson — “Till We Meet Again”. 



17 




The International Delegates at the Washington Congress 


While everyone was attending workshops, seminars and general 
sessions at the Second International Congress in Washington, 
there was another series of meetings being held. The American 
Camping Association and the Canadian Camping Association 
invited a representative of each country present at the Congress to 
attend a meeting to discuss the future International activities. 
Many of the people present at this meeting represented organized 
camping movements in their countries. Delegates from USA, 
Canada, Jamaica, Japan, India, Australia, England, Ghana, 
Costa Rica, Ecuador, Bermuda, Kenya, Israel, Belgium and The 
Peoples Republic of China, met and discussed camping in their 
country and their dreams of future International activity. The 
excitement and good feelings generated are hard to capture on 
paper! 

It was decided at the end of these meetings to produce an 
International newsletter to be distributed to these delegates, with 
each country contributing news, articles and information. It was 
hoped by those present that from this will develop International 
exchanges, and closer collaboration on many issues. At the end of 
the Congress a resolution was presented by this group committing 
the participating delegates to a follow-up evaluation within two 
years, and to further activities. 

These meetings were a small beginning that could lead to very 
worthwhile International collaboration amongst camping 
organizations in future years. 

Agreement of 

International Representatives 

1. To coordinate internationally in order to — 

A) Exchange news and information 

B) Encourage and facilitate bilateral and multilateral 
exchanges 

2. To evaluate our direction within two years 

3. To ask ACA to produce an International newsletter, first 
copy deadline, June 1st; available by subscription with copy 
supplied by International participants 

4. To ask ACA to facilitate an interaction amongst five or six 
delegates within twelve months to assess direction. 

5. To do these things under the name of the International 
Camping Fellowship. 


Les congressistes internationaux 
a Washington 

Pendant que tout le monde assistait aux conferences, 
aux seminaires et aux sessions generates au deuxteme 
“International Congress” k Washington, une s6rie 
differente de conferences se tenait. L’association des 
camps americains et I’association des camps canadiens 
inviterent un repr^sentant de chaque pays present au 
congr^s k une conference pour discuter d’activites 
internationales futures. Bien des personnes presentes 
representerent des mouvements organises de camping 
dans leurs pays. Les delegues des Etats-Unis, du Canada, 
de la Jamique, du Japon, de I’lnde, de I’Australie, de 
I’Angleterre, du Ghana, du Costa Rica, de I’Ecuador, des 
Bermudes, du Kenya, de I’lsrael, de la Beige, et de la Chine, 
se retrouverent et discuterent le camping dans leurs pays 
et leurs reves des activity internationales futures. II est 
difficile d’exprimer sur le papier la vive emotion 
engendree! 



Tom Slater , International delegate from Australia presents to Congress 
the International Agreement. 

A la fin de ces reunions, on a decide de produire un 
bulletin international qui sera distribue a ces delegues, 
chaque pays contribuant les nouvelles, les articles et les 
informations. On esperait que ce bulletin developperait 
des echanges internationales, et qu’il y aurait de la 
collaboration proche k plusieurs livraisons. A la fin du 
congr^s ce groupe presenta une resolution qui engage les 
participants k une evaluation d’ici deux ans, et k un 
engagement devancer les activites. 

Ces reunions constituent un commencement petit qui 
pourrait mener k une collaboration internationale valable 
entre les organisations de camping dans les ans qui 
viennent. 


Le pack des representants internationaux 

1. Se coordonner internationalement pour — 

A) echanger les nouvelles et les renseignements 

B) encourager et faciliter des echanges bilaterales 
et multilaterales 

2. Evaluer notre direction d’ice deux ans 

3. Demander k I’ACA de produire un bulletin inter¬ 
national, date limite du premier exemplaire, juin; 
disponible par souscription; les articles seront fournis 
par les participants internationaux 

4. Demander k I’ACA de faciliter une interaction entre 
cinq ou six delegues d’ice douze mois pour evaluer la 
direction 

5. Accomplir ces buts sous nom de “International 
Camping Fellowship”. 


18 








From the Lincoln Memorial down the length of the reflecting pond\ 
the Washington Monument dominates the east. 


The Lincoln Memorial stands at the west end of the Washington park¬ 
land known as the Mall. 


— 


Between the two memorials (Lincoln and Washington) stands the 
Vietnam Veterans Memorial with each panel bearing the names of 
hundreds of people lost or killed in America’s sixteen year war. 


In the far distance, centre picture, is the Thomas Jefferson Memorial 


The White House lies to the north of this point at the base of 
Washington Monument. 


The Editor-in-Chief of Canadian Camping Magazine states his 
position at the podium in the Briefing Room of the White House after a 
special tour of the West Wing. (L-R) Jack Murdock , AC A Convention 
Manager, Tom Knowlton, Jack Pearse, Mark Baldwin, John Jorgenson, 
Jane McCutcheon, Jim Knowlton. 


19 














THE PRODUCT DELIVERY PARADIGM 
ENSURING A QUALITY CAMPING EXPERIENCE 

by Shannon Etkin 
Director of Group Services 
Family Service Association of Metropolitan Toronto 
22 Wellesley Street East , Toronto , Ontario M4Y 1G3 


(416) 922-3126 


A. STRATEGIC PLAN 

1. We have a Set of Goals that everyone must accept as to 
what we are hoping to effect or produce at camp. 

2. We have a Methodology — A way of producing — 
that must be understood and followed. 

3. We have Rules and Procedures that must be under¬ 
stood and followed. 

4. We have a System of Checks and Balances that is based 
on a supervisory model where various levels exist with 
varying degrees of responsibility and authority. 

B. OPERATIONAL METHODS 

1 . Our word is our Bond — If we say it we do it. 

2. Actions count — We can’t say one thing and do another. 

3. Our Actions Must be in Concert with our Philosophy 
of Camp. 

4. We Must Remember We Are Viewed as Role Models 
and have taken on the Role and Responsibility of Parent 
so we now have Legal and Moral Codes we must be 
aware of and must act in the most responsible manner 
possible. 

5. We must always be alert, mentally and physically able 
to respond at a high performance level. 

6. We must think and reflect before we commit ourselves 
to ensure that we are acting responsibly, carrying out the 
expectations and responsibilities of the job we have 
agreed to perform. 

7. We must ensure that our intent is reflected in our 
actions and that what is perceived to be is what we have 
intended to be. 

8. If we are unsure if something is right and/or safe, then 
we don’t do it. You can’t retract an action or its con¬ 
sequences. 

9. We make the best not the easiest decisions. 

10. We don’t look for the easy way out — we look for 
the best way. 

11. We take that extra step that makes the difference 
between good and best. 

12. We put our campers first — always. 

13. We perform our tasks with humility, integrity and as 
part of a winning team. 

14. We will sacrifice personal desires for the good of the 
group. 


15. We want our campers to be winners!! 



There was national exchange in an international setting. Here Jane 
Crawford (L) (Ontario) chats with Megan Jentz (Alberta). 


It is crucial that our staff understand the importance of our 
strategic plan and operational methods. They are the only 
guarantee we have of producing a good product and the only 
guarantee we can give the consumers. 

We can’t say your child will have the best experience ever at our 
camp — but we can say our methods and goals will provide your 
child with the best chance of having a good camping experience. 

I stress to staff the importance of our methodology and the 
dangers to them personally and the camp as a whole if they disre¬ 
gard or deviate from our practices. 

The dangers are the same as those that face the manufacturer of 
canned tuna if the tuna causes food poisoning or an un¬ 
acceptable ingredient shows up when the can is opened. 

Of course, we may still be challenged by an unhappy consumer 
but we reduce that likelihood the more thoroughly staff under¬ 
stand and follow our practices. Dissatisfaction is also reduced as 
the consumers become more knowledgeable and realistic about 
what the camp provides. 

Let’s not promise them the sun and the stars when we can only 
provide them with the moon. 

In a recent court case, one of my camp staff was accused by a 
mother of physically assaulting her son. The son claimed he was 
pushed harshly and his head struck the wall. The proceedings 
took a year before the judge threw the case out saying it was based 
on pure fabrications. One crucial part of the evidence that led the 
judge to his decision was based on the camp providing detailed 
documentation showing its hiring and training procedures, 
supervisory system and written policies and practices. We also 
had to show that management enforced its rules. 

We were able to show our camp as having a strategic plan and 
operational methodology that was reasonable and prudent in the 
provision of a quality camping experience. Even if some of the 
products didn’t turn out the way we or the consumer would have 
wanted, we could show our process as being appropriate. It also 
recognized that when a product doesn’t turn out, when the 
camper or family isn’t happy with the experience that the camp 
may not be to blame. 

In review, to produce a quality camping product — to try to 
best ensure each camper will have a positive experience — your 
camp must: 

1. have a broad strategic plan to achieve its mission; 

2. have operational methods that are known to be successful; 

3. ensure that all staff understand the production process, 
why following it is so important and the dangers of 
disregarding it; 

4. educate its consumers so they have realistic expectations. 

Le paradigme de la presentation du produit qui 
assurera une experience positive de camping 

Nos camps sont comme n’importe quel produit ou 
n’importe quelle service qui se vende au marche. Est-ce 
vrai? Shannon Etkin examine notre travail et dessine une 
strategic specifique pour assurer que nous soyons 
consciencieux d’une presentation de qualite de notre 
produit. 


20 





STARKMAN SURGICAL SUPPLY LTD. 

1243 BATHURST STREET TORONTO, CANADA M5R 3H3 (416) 534-8411 

Everything for post-operative and health care 


This is the AD that appeared in the April 1957 Issue of Canadian Camping 
Magazine. 


Wholesale 
Medical 
Supplies... 

Medical Equipment 
First Aid Requirements 
Medicines 

Prices Lower Faster Service 


STARKMAN CHEMISTS 

459 Bloor St. W. - Toronto 


This is the AD that’s appearing in April 1987 Issue of Canadian Camping 
Magazine 30 YEARS LATER. 


Wholesale 
Medical 
Supplies ... 

Medical Equipment 
First Aid Requirements 
Medicines 

Prices Lower Faster Service 
Starkman Surgical Supply 

1243 Bathurst Street 

Toronto M5R 3H3 

For out of town 1-800-387-0330 


The Only things that have changed 

are our Address and Phone Numbers 

Our sense of Value is much greater 
We value your patronage much More 


21 




THE BELGIUM — ONTARIO EXCHANGE by Martin Hunt 


The campers had toiled on their project since early morning. 
Their outdoor banqueting frame was festooned with brightly 
coloured flowers and ribbons. And they had prepared a grand 
feast of chicken, rice and vegetables. Just as the banquet was to 
begin, the frame shifted and threatened to crash the party. 
Suddenly, there was a great hubbub: “Grab the posts!” “Gardez 
lanourriture!”, “Brace the base!”, “Poussezce poteau!” 

There had been very much noise and two languages spoken, but 
the communication had been clear and understandable—the feast 
had been saved. Such was the scene as I arrived to visit two of the 
Ontario Camping Association counsellors on last summer’s 
exchange with the Jeunesse et Sante of Belgium. Assured that all 
was safe, I was invited to join them and partake of their meal. I 
sat down and enjoyed yet another sumptuous meal and more 
cheerful conversation. 

The exchange was an International Youth Year Project, of the 
Ontario Camping Association, in co-operation with the Ontario 
Ministry of Tourism and Recreation. In July 1985, two repre¬ 
sentatives of the Jeunesse et Sante, Pierre Ferron and Anne- 
Francoise Van de Velde toured Ontario camps to get a sense of 
camping in Ontario. Then in August, Dorothy Walter of the 
Ontario Ministry of Tourism and Recreation (MTR) and I toured 
sites used by the Jeunesse et Sante. 

In July of 1986, twelve Belgian counsellors and one co¬ 
ordinator visited Ontario. Pairs of counsellors were placed in each 
of six camps while the co-ordinator toured the camps. In August, 
eleven counsellors from O.C.A. camps, with the support of their 
Directors and the M.T.R., and I visited the Jeunesse et Sante 
sites. 

Unlike the O.C.A., the Jeunesse et Sante rents their sites each 
summer and all counsellors are trained (formation) centrally and 
then placed where they are needed. We were impressed by the 
very creative programs which were produced with limited 
facilities. They were particularly taken with our waterfront 
programs and had a great interest in our leadership and Mature* 
programs. 

The common denominator, of course, was the commitment to 
kids. And perhaps this factor was the major contribution to the 
success of the exchange. The spirit of fun and good humour was 
ever present. A group of campers seemed to best sum up our 
nature as they stepped together walking down the road, chanting 
“we are a little bitta crazy!” Many of the friendships initiated last 
summer will last a lifetime. 

Our contact will continue with Jeunesse et Sante as liaison for 
the co-ordination of independant exchanges and contacts. The 
Jeunesse et Sante is also interested in twinning Canadian camps 
with its fourteen regional organizations, to encourage an 
exchange of program and craft ideas, pen pals, etc. 

After that final banquet meal, we may want to exchange menu 
plans too! 

For more information contact O.C.A. 



L’Echange Belge-Ontarienne 

Les campeurs travaillaient dur k leur projet depuis le 
matin. Leur chassis pour le banquet de plein air se 
festonnait de fleurs vivement colotees et de rubans. Et ils 
avalent prpate un grand festin de poulet, de riz et de 
legumes. Juste au moment ou le banquet commengait, le 
chetissis se deplaga et menagait de resquiller k la fSte. 
Soudain, II y avait un brouhaha enorme: “Grab the posts!”, 
“Gardez le nourriture!”, “Brace the base!", “Poussez ce 
poteau!” 

Beaucoup de bruit, et deux langues, mais communi¬ 
cation claire et comprehensible — le festin avait 6t6 saute. 
C’6tait une telle scene quand j’arrivai k visiter deux des 
conseillers de I’association des camps de I’Ontario qui 
participaient I’6t6 derniere k rechange avec la Jeunesse et 
Sante de la Beige. Assure que tout etait sain et sauf, ils 
m'inviterent k m’asseoir et & partager leur repas. Je 
m’assis et je pris encore un repas somptueux et je pris 
plaisir k plus de conversation joyeuse. 

L’echange 6tait un projet de “International Youth Year” 
muni par (’association des camps de I’Ontario avec la 
cooperation du minist6re de tourisme et de recreation. 
Juillet 1985, deux representants de la Jeunesse et Sante, 
Pierre Ferron et Anne-Frangoise Van de Velde, visiterent 
des camps de I’Ontario pour voir le camping de I’Ontarlo. 
Puis en aoOt, Dorothy Walter du ministers de tourisme et 
de recreation (M.T.R.) et moi visitemes des terrains utilises 
par la Jeunesse et Sante. 

Juillet 1986, douze conseillers belgiques et un 
coordinateur rend6rent visits k I’Ontario. Des paires de 
conseillers se placerent dans chacun des six camps 
pendant que le coordinateur visitait les camps. En aoOt, 
onze conseillers de I’A.C.O., avec I’appui de leurs 
directeurs du M.T.R., et moi visitemes les terrains de la 
Jeunesse et Sante. 

Contrairement k l’A.C.O., la Jeunesse et Sante loue ses 
terrains chaque 6t6 et tous les conseillers se torment k un 
lieu central, et puis on les place selon le besoin. Les 
programmes ttes cteatifs produits avec facllites limitees 
nous impressionndrent bien. De leur part, ils 6taient ttes 
impressionn&s par nos programmes nautiques et ils 
s’lnteressaient beaucoup k nos programmes de formation 
et de la nature. 

Le point commun, bien sOr, 6tait les charges aux 
enfants. Et peut-dtre que c’est k ce facteur qu’on doit le 
suce&s de I’exchange. L’esprit de I’amusement et de bonne 
humeur 6tait toujours ptesent. Un groups de campeurs 
semble reptesenter notre caractere comme ils marctterent 
ensemble, en chantant “We are a little bitta crazy!” Bien 
des amittes commences I’6t6 derntere dureront toute 
une vie. 

Notre contact avec la Jeunesse et Sante comme liaison 
pour la coordination des ^changes independantes 
continuera. La Jeunesse et Sante s’interesse aussi k 
jumeler des camps Canadians avec ses quatorze 
organisations tegionales pour encourager une ^change 
des id6es de programmation et d’artisanat, de 
correspondants, et cetera. 

Aptes le bon banquet, peut-Stre qu’on voudra ^changer 
les menus aussi. 

Pour plus d’informations, s’adressez k I’A.C.O. 


22 




WHAT’S IN A NAME? 


CAMP CADICASU (kad'a ka zo</» 

In 1930, Dan Whitney, a Calgary hotelman, donated a portion 
of his land in the Bragg Creek area to the Calgary Catholic 
Diocese. On this site, Father Bolz established St. Mary’s Camp 
to provide summer camping experiences for the choir boys of 
St. Mary’s Cathedral. 

In 1930, the log cabin was constructed. This was the camp’s 
first building and it is still in use today. At that time it served as 
the mess hall, kitchen and meeting area. The boys slept in tents, 
bathed in Bragg Creek and went swimming in the Elbow River. 
After World War II, sleeping dormitories were added. Since then 
the camp has been growing steadily. 

During the 1950’s, a contest was sponsored for the renaming of 
the camp. Cadicasu, derived from the first two letters of each 
word of the Calgary Diocesan Camp Summer, won the honour of 
replacing the St. Mary’s title. 

Located 50 miles from Calgary, Camp Cadicasu now offers 
programs for boys, girls, coed groups, families and adults in all 4 
seasons. The summer program includes hiking, backpacking, 
riding, archery, acclimatization arts, crafts, campfires and sports. 

Much has changed since 1930, but even more remains the same. 
Under the soft summer night of Southern Alberta, or its blazing 
sun, there are groups of people striving to do just a little more 
than get by. They enjoy life and try, with some success and some 
failure but always with interest, to bring out the best of each and 
every day. They struggle, not alone, but with many other 
wonderful people to maintain human dignity, foster creative 
activity and prevent a vacuum forming inside people, a space 
that, sometimes, may be filled with futile and meaningless 
activity. Pray God that their struggle becomes a joyful victory. 


Watch for more on the history of Camp Cadicasu in future 
issues. 

If you would like to see more information on other camps’ 
histories, then please forward material to Canadian Camping 
Magazine. 


QUE SIGNIFIE 
UN NOM? 


Camp Cadicasu 

1930, Dan Whitney, hotelier de Calgary, fit don d’une 
portion de sa terre qui se trouvait aux environs de “Bragg 
Creek” au “Calgary Catholic Diocese”. A cet emplace¬ 
ment, le pere Bolz etablit St. Mary’s Camp pour fournir des 
experiences de camping en ete pour les jeunes choristes 
de “St. Mary’s Cathedral”. 

1930, on construisit la cabane en rondins. C’etait le 
premier batiment du camp, et on I’utilise toujours. A cet 
epoque, c’etait la salle & manger, la cuisine et la lieu de 
reunion. Les gargons dormirent dans les tentes, se 
baigrerent dans “Bragg Creek” et nagerent dans “Elbow 
River”. Apres la deuxieme guerre mondiule, on ajouta des 
dormitoires. Depuis ce moment, le camp s’agrandit 
progressivement. 

Pendant les annees cinquante, un concours se presenta 
pour que le camp soit renomme. Cadicasu, tenu des deux 
premiers lettres de chaque mot de “Calgary Diocesan 
Camp Summer”, regut I’honneur de remplacer le nom “St. 
Mary’s”. 

A 50 miles du Calgary, le Camp Cadicasu offre 
maintenant des programmes pour les gargons, les jeunes 
filles, les groupes mixtes, les families, les adultes pendant 
chaque saison. Le programme d’ete comprend les 
promenades, la randonnee, I’equitation, I’acclimatation, 
I’artisanat, les feux de camp et les sports. 

Beaucoup changea depuis 1930, mais d’autant plus 
reste le meme. Sous la nuit calme d’ete de I’Alberte du sud 
ou sous son soleil brulant, il se trouves des groupes de 
personnes qui s’efforcent de faire plus que le minimum. Ms 
aiment la vie et ils essaient, avec un plu de succes et un plu 
d’echec mais toujours avec interet, & faire ressortir le 
meilleur de chaque jour. Ils se demenent, pas seuls, mais 
avec bien d’autres beaux gens pour maintenir la dignite 
humaine, pour stimuler I’activite creative et pour empecher 
un vide de contracter a I’interieur des personnes, un vide 
qui pourrait se remplir d’activites vaines et denuees de 
sens. Prions Dieu que leur lutte devienne victoire joyeuse. 


23 







ONTARIO MARCH OF DIMES 
SECURES NEW CAMP SITE 


The Ontario March of Dimes has been running residential 
holiday programs since 1972. Based out of four locations, 
approximately three hundred physically disabled adults receive 
the opportunity to go on a ten day holiday. 

To date the programs have run out of the Villa Loyola up in 
Sudbury and three conservation area sites surrounding Toronto 
(Scanlon Creek, Albion Hills and Claremont). 

This year a new site has been secured through the Sacred Heart 
Family & Child Centre and will subsequently replace Claremont 
Conservation Area. Based approximately 15 minutes outside of 
Burk’s Falls (an hour north of Huntsville) lies Camp Chetwynd; a 
completely accessible facility. Surrounded by a wonderful 
forested area and overlooking a private, fresh water lake are three 
lodges all containing ten fully equipped bedrooms (accessible 
washroom, hand holds, etc.) and a lounge area in the centre of 
each building. All the lodges, including the dining hall which is a 
separate building, over-look the lake. A paved pathway allows an 
individual confined to a wheelchair to be virtually independent 
while travelling from lodge to dining hall to waterfront to the 
playing field to the nature walk amongst the forested area; 
completely unassisted if desired. 

The Camping Program provides an opportunity for physically 
disabled adults to enjoy a residential holiday. With a staff to 
camper ratio of better than 2:1, participants are able to engage in 
many activities. These include swimming, canoeing, snorkelling, 
crafts, lawn games, trips to community events or attractions, corn 
roasts, barbecues, or just relaxing in the sun sharing conversation. 
Over 50 percent of those who attend live in hospitals or nursing 
homes the rest of the year. The staff, primarily college and 
university students are well trained and provide attendant care 
under the supervision of Registered Nurses. 

Applications for the program are currently available. Anyone 
who has a physical disability, is over the age of 18 and is a resident 
of Ontario may apply to attend. Applications are considered on 
an individual basis and are reviewed during the first two weeks of 
May. Those received after this are put on a waiting list and receive 
consideration as cancellations arise. 

Priority is given to individuals who have not attended camp 
previously; residents of institutions, nursing homes and hospitals; 
people who are isolated and unable to participate in community 
activities. 


There is a set fee for each 10-day session and it is strongly 
encouraged that every individual will pay a percentage of his or 
her camp fee. Each individual needs to recognize that this is not a 
free holiday. To get something out of camp; one must initially put 
something into it. However no one will be denied the opportunity 
to participate because he/she cannot afford the total fee. 
Payments can be made in installments and full refunds will be 
made available upon cancellation. 



Depuis 1972, “The Ontario March of Dimes” dirige des 
programmes de vacances residentiels. Avec quatre 
emplacements, a peu pres trois cents adultes handicapes 
ont I’opportunite de prendre dix jours de vacances. 

Jusqu’a ce moment, les programmes se divigent de la 
Ville Loyola k Sudbury et de trois “conservation areas” qui 
entourent Toronto (Scanlon Creek, Albion Hills et Clare¬ 
mont). 

Cette annee, par I’intermediaire du “Sacred Heart Family 
and Child Centre”, on a procure un nouvel emplacement 
qui remplacera par la suite “Claremont Conservation 
Area”. Base a peu pres 15 minutes de Burk’s Falls (une 
heure au nord de Huntsville) se trouve Camp Chetwynd; 
une facilite completement accessible. Entoures d’une 
foret magnifique, les trois pavilions, qui ont chacun dix 
chambres completement munies et un salon, donnent sur 
un lac prive de I’eau fraiche. Meme la salle a manger, qui 
est un batiment different, a cette vue. Un chemin pave 
permette qu’un individu confine k un fanteuil roulant soit 
pratiquement independent en voyageant du pavilion a la 
salle a manger de la plage au terrain de jeu a la 
promenade du nature dans la foret; tout seul s’il le veut. 

Le Programme du camping offre I’opportunite pour les 
handicaps de s’amuser k un conge residentiel avec une 
proportion de plus de 2 emplolyes a chaque campeur. Les 
activites auxquelles on peut participer comprennent la 
nage, le canot, le tuba, I’artisanat, les jeux sur gazon, les 
excursions aux evenements de la communaute, les 
barbecues, ou simplement les bains de soleil, bavardant 
avec des amis. Plus de 50 pour cent de aux qui assistent 
aux camps habitent, pendant la reste de I’annee, dans les 
hopitaux ou dans les cliniques. Les employes, pour la 
plupart les etudiants des universites ou des colleges, ont 
regu de bonnes formations et ils sont diriges par les 
infirmieres diplomees. 

Les formulaires de demande sont maintenant 
disponibles. Tous les gens handicapes, qui ont plus de 18 
ans et qui habitent I’Ontario peuvent faire une demande 
d’assister. Les formulaires de demande sont considerees 
individuellement et on les examinera pendant les deux 
premieres semaines de mai. Celles regues apres cette date 
seront mises sur une liste d’attente et seront considerie 
selon les demandes annulees. 

Ceux qui n’ont pas assiste auparavant au camp auront la 
priorite; aussi que les residents des etablissements 
hospitaliers; les isoles et ceux qui ne peuvent pas 
participer aux activites de la communaute. 

II y a un frais fixe pour chaque periode de dix jours, et on 
encourage chaque personne de payer un pourcentage de 
son frais. Chacun doit reconnaitre que ce n’est pas 
unconge gratuit. Pour profiter du camp, il faut y ajouter. 
Cependant personne ne manquera I’opportunite d’y 
participer k cause de ne pas pouvoir payer le frais total. On 
peut payer en plusieurs versements, et on se fera 
rembourser en cas d’annulation. 

Pour plus d’informations: 

For further information please contact: 

Cathy Smart 
Coordinator of Camping 
60 Overlea Blvd. 

Toronto, Ont. M4H 1B6 
(416) 425-0501 ext. 27. 


24 




BUBBY NASH 

PRIX 

AWARD 

BUBBY NASH 

For Creative Writing 

Pour I’ecriture creative 

To Honour Anne Nashman 

en I’honneur d’Anne Nashman 

of Camp Wahanowin 

du Camp Wahanowin 

DEADLINE 

EXTENDED! 


Anne Nashman 


Anne Nashman 


CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE and Camp 
Wahanowin welcome articles of creative writing from campers or 
staff members of Canadian camps. This annual writing contest 
carries with it $200.00 in prizes and the winning articles will be 
published in future editions of CANADIAN CAMPING 
MAGAZINE. 

TOPIC: “WHAT CAMPING DOES FOR ME” 

ELIGIBLE WRITERS: Campers and/or staff from Canadian 
Camps. Articles may be written in 
French or English. 

LENGTH: Not less than 800 or more than 1000 words. 


DEADLINE FOR COMPLETION 
OF ARTICLE: May 31, 1987 


PRIZES: 1st —$100.00 

Runners-Up — Two at $50.00 each 

SEND ARTICLES TO: 

CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario 
M3M 3Z1 


PLEASE ENCOURAGE CAMPERS AND STAFF 
IN YOUR CAMP TO PARTICIPATE 


La revue Canadian Camping et le Camp Wahanowin ont 
besoin d’articles en ecriture creative de campeurs ou de 
personnel de camps canadiens. 

Ce concours annuel en ecriture creative inclus $200.00 
en prix et les textes choisis seront publies dans les 
editions a venir de la revue Canadian Camping. 

SUJET: Ce que le Camping m’apporte. 

OUVERT: & tous les campeurs et personnel de Camps 
Canadiens 

LONGEUR: pas moinsde800 mots pas plus de 1000 mots 


DATE LIMITE: 31 Mai 1987 


PRIX: ier prix: $100.00 

et 2 prix de $50.00 chacun 

ENVOYEZ VOS ARTICLES A: 

CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, 
Toronto, Ontario 
M3M 3Z1 


S.V.P. encourez vos campeurs et votre personnel 
a participer. 


25 













CAMP AND CHARACTER 

Leadership for Self-Empowerment and Excellence 

by Bruce Elkin , January , 1987 

[This paper has been excerpted and adapted from the forthcoming handbook, 
Self Leadership: Skills and Strategies for Changing Times, by Bruce Elkin. It is 
reprinted with permission.] 


L’article examine le rdle du 
camping k aider les individus qui 
doivent s’occuper des probldmes et 
des opportunities dans nos jours de 
arangements. II constate que les 
programmes de camping sont plus 
prometteur pour habiliter les 
individus et pour d6velopper du 
caractdre que ne le sont les 
programmes 6ducatifs des ecoles qui 
existent. [Le caract6re se d§finl 
comme le r&sultat des pouvoirs qu’un 
individu possSde et son autorltfe sur 
les pouvoirs]. Les concepts clefs que 
Particle discute sont Thabillte” — 
le d6veloppement de I’aptltude k 
passer I’intention a Paction et k 
pouvoir le soutenir— et Pimportance 
du d6veloppement du caract&re k une 
§poque ou les roles et les structures 
traditionnels n’assurent plus du 
succds comme personne. On decrit 
les id&es de Thabilite”, comment 
Pensiegner et Penvironnement qui le 
favorise. 

Most people think it is intellect that makes 
a great scientist . They are wrong, it is 
character . —Albert Einstein 

Character is the thing that distinguishes a 
good scout from a bad one, 

— The first Official boy Scout 
Handbook, 1911 

What is character? 

Character is an elusive, but increasingly 
important concept. Aristocrats and 
royalty seem to have it, better schools try 
to develop it, we all wish we had more of 
it, but no one seems sure what it really is. 

The Oxford Dictionary defines 
“character” as “the sum of the moral and 
mental qualities which distinguish an 
individual”. The Oxford American 
defines it as “all those qualities that make 
a person what he is and different from 
others”. 

Character has to do with who we are. It 
is a synergistic blend of attributes like 
initiative, courage, commitment, and 
resourcefulness. It is the way an individual 
orchestrates and applies skills, knowledge, 
attitudes and experience to the problems 
and opportunities of daily living. 
Character is the essence of our individu¬ 
ality and excellence. It determines who we 
will become. 


“Character is the sum of a person’s 
powers, their nature as a being. Power 
is used here in its broadest sense, and 
means all of the abilities of an organism 
to change itself or the environment. 
Most human powers are either learned 
or may be enhanced, modified or 
directed by learning. Attributes of 
character are expressed as “high order 
skill”, abilities such as courage, cheer¬ 
fulness, compassion, resilience, 
creativity or initiative. High order 
skills are general powers that are useful 
in a wide range of different situations. 
Literacy is a high order skill, as are 
artistry, ingenuity and mechanical 
“savvy”. There are hundreds of high 
order skills that could make up 
character. The problem for any society 
is deciding which powers to en¬ 
courage.” (Low, 1985)* 

Each age, or era, has its own problems 
and opportunities. Different specific skills 
and powers are needed to respond 
effectively to the challenges posed by the 
events and circumstances of different 
eras. Rugged individualism and ruthless 
industrialism gave way to corporate 
gamesmen and “the man in the grey 
flannel suit.” The organization man is 
now giving way to information brokers, 
entrepreneurs, intrapreneurs and 
innovators. Different times and different 
circumstances require different attributes 
of character. 

The present age is one of change and 
complexity. It is a time of diversity and 
options, a time of both danger and 
opportunity. It is a time of great freedom 
which requires the wise use of personal 
freedom. Indeed, character is nothing less 
than the ability to make use of freedom. It 
is the ability to take advantage of freedom 
from restraint but, more important, 
character empowers us to be free to act. A 
well developed character enables us to 
choose from among the choices, to initiate 
action, to turn dreams into reality and to 
take personal responsibility for who we — 
and our world — become. 

Character involves a sense of 
“response-ability” — the ability to 
respond — made possible, and necessary, 
by the increasing and sometimes 
frightening erosion of the power of 
external structures which, traditionally, 
have provided guidance and direction for 
individuals and groups. 


Why do we need to develop character? 

Our world, our society — and with 
them our traditional approaches to 
human growth, learning and develop¬ 
ment — have been changing so rapidly 
that our cultural supports are crumbling. 
We now have to consciously design things 
— machines, systems, procedures, 
solutions to professional and personal 
problems — that we have never had to 
think about before. 

In the face of increasing complexity and 
rapidly escalating change, each of us must 
develop our own powers, engage the 
culture and environment with those 
powers and, in the process, create and 
continuously re-create who we become. 
We can no longer rely only on traditional 
approaches to learning and growth to 
develop the abilities we need to manage 
ourselves and our environments. We are, 
each of us, responsible for our own 
powers, our own becoming. 

Our schools do not develop the high 
order skills we need to meet and manage 
complex, changing conditions. The 
images of the mass media are ineffective 
at best and harmful at worst as models of 
general powers and high order skills. 
Family, church and community are less 
effective today than in simpler, more 
stable times. Yet, we desperately need 
individuals who can translate ideas into 
action, who can learn from their own 
experience, who understand how and why 
to take part in the culture that sustains 
them and who know how, and why, to 
take charge of their own lives and lead 
themselves into the future. 

“Parents, educators and counsellors, 
are faced with a difficult challenge. 
Our culture is in a difficult “in be¬ 
tween” stage in its approaches to 
human development. We still rely on 
many traditional methods of sociali¬ 
zation to produce acceptable be¬ 
haviour by encouraging conformity, 
while at the same time recognizing the 
need for greater levels of responsible 
autonomy and self-direction. We also 
know that the schools cannot carry the 
whole burden of youth development, 
but do not yet know what other kinds 
of arrangements should be in place, 
who should do what, and how the 
whole thing ties together.” (Low 1985)* 


26 



What does character have to do with 
camp? 

Waiting for schools and teachers to 
develop new approaches and arrange¬ 
ments for human development and 
personal growth is like hoping railroaders 
will develop new forms of air travel. Not 
likely. Schools have enough trouble trying 
to teach the 3 R’s without having to worry 
about the basics of character develop¬ 
ment. Character development is based on 
a different set of basics — the 3 W’s: 
Will, Wisdom and Wherewithal — 
which correspond to the generative skills 
of self-motivation, self-management and 
self-mastery. It is the development of 
these skills that requires new 
arrangements and new approaches. 

To ensure the development of basic 
character skills we will have to break out 
of our narrow, categorical thinking that 
learning and growth take place only in 
formal educational settings like schools. 
We will have to look to other areas of 
human life for answers. If we look 
carefully we will discover that the better 
experiential learning and recreation 
programs are already encouraging and 
facilitating the growth of these skills. One 
area that holds great promise is the 
camping movement. The basic character 
skills are developed more by a summer at 
camp than they are by a year in most 
schools. 

Good summer camps have always, 
implicitly or explicitly, contributed to the 
development of personal powers and 
character. Young people — both campers 
and counsellors — become engaged with 
an environment ideally suited for 
developing high order skills and testing 
personal powers. That engagement 
increases a learner’s ability to do things, 
to handle change and stress, and to take 
responsibility for actions and experience. 
And with those skills and insights comes a 
sense that he or she “can do”. And do 
better. Confidence and competence 
increase. A sense of excellence and 
responsibility are born. 

Camping offers opportunities for 
learning in a variety of areas from 
physical skills to crafts to social skills. It 
provides a chance to get away from the 
routine of home and school, to try out 
new ways of acting and being. It demands 
responsibility, particularly from young 
leaders. (In fact, there is probably no 
other environment in which young people 
are trusted so highly or offered so much 
responsibility than that of counselling 
children at camp.) Camp offers training, 
coaching, counselling, and peer-learning. 
It provides immediate feedback and 
correction without the stigma of grades 
and ranking. It allows young people to 
make mistakes and learn from them — 
a skill we are discovering is critical for 
peak performance in personal and pro¬ 
fessional life throughout life. Camp 


encourages integrated learning and 
growth, perhaps more than any other 
social institution we have. And it does so 
without much ado about the process, so 
learning happens naturally, effortlessly 
and enjoyaably. 

Camp is an empowering environment. 
It is an excellent testing ground for the 
development of character. Character 
development is already implicit in many of 
the approaches and programs which can 
be found in any good camp. But, we can 
do more. We can build on what exists to 
make character development an explicit 
part of the camping process. We can make 
the development of personal powers, and 
an understanding of the ways those 
powers are used, a valued goal of the 
camping experience. Making explicit the 
principles and process by which character 
is developed will make it possible to 
ensure that camping’s full potential can be 
used to encourage young people to 
develop general skills, broad powers and 
power over those powers. 

What does character have to do with 
leadership? 

Developing character is an act of em¬ 
powerment. Power is “the ability to do 
something”. It is the basic energy of 
human achievement, the capacity to 
initiate and carry out action, the ability to 
translate intention into reality and sustain 
it. Empowerment — the evolution of 
character — involves developing specific 
powers, and power over those powers. 
Persons of character use power wisely. 
They are just as interested in “know- 
why” as they are in “know-how”. They 
are concerned about doing the right thing 
more than they are about doing things 
right. They are leaders — of others, 
sometimes — but always of themselves. 

Leadership for character development 
is different than “I lead, you follow’’ 
leadership. Beyond a basic level the 
developing character is a self-led process. 
Therefore, the leadership approach that 
best facilitates its development is an 
empowering self-leadership process, one 
which transforms followers into leaders. 
Equipping camp staff and counsellors 
with the skills, strategies and principles of 
self-leadership will ensure an under¬ 
standing of the processes by which 
character is developed. It will enable them 
to facilitate that process more effectively 
and, indeed, if desired, to design and 
develop programs that make the 
development of character their primary 
goal. It will also enable them to empower 
themselves. 

There are two key elements in leader¬ 
ship for character development — the 
leaders and the environment — and both 
can be developed to ensure that they 
contribute effectively to the 
empowerment and growth of our young 
people. 


Four aspects of effective leadership 
stand out. Leaders have a sense of vision. 
They know what they want to achieve, 
they know what they believe in. They have 
a purpose, a mission that motivates them, 
which attracts and pulls their followers. 

Good leaders are effective communi¬ 
cators. Specifically they are good at 
sharing their vision in such a way that it 
induces enthusiasm in others and commit¬ 
ment to an important purpose. 

Good leaders “walk their talk”. By 
constantly and clearly practicing what 
they preach, good leaders engender the 
trust necessary to implement their vision. 

Finally, good leaders know that self- 
empowerment is essential. They know 
that the best way to transform, or 
improve, or empower others is, first, 
empower yourself. Warren Bennis, on 
whose research these elements of 
leadership are based, says, “Management 
of self is critical. Without it leaders may 
do more harm than good”.** Good 
leaders work at developing their own self- 
regard by developing and improving their 
skills, and aligning their purpose and 
goals with the needs of the organization. 
They are also positive thinkers, able to see 
problems as challenges, to learn from 
mistakes or setbacks, and look ahead to 
opportunity with enthusiasm and energy. 
High self regard and a positive attitude are 
contagious. And they are empowering. 
Not only of leaders, but also those who 
follow them. 

Empowering environments have four 
essential components as well. The first is 
significance. To be empowering, events 
and circumstances must be important, 
even momentous. They must have 
personal meaning for campers. 

The second component of empower¬ 
ment is competence. Campers must have a 
sense that they are learning new things, 
mastering new skills, developing their 
powers. 

A sense of community is essential. 
Sharing common purpose, working and 
playing together is empowering. Camps 
are almost unique in the degree of 
community they foster. 

Finally, enjoyment, or plain old fun, is 
a critical element in empowerment. Fun is 
motivating, it enhances learning and is 
rewarding in itself. 

Taking part in enjoyable, meaningful 
activities, building personal and 
interpersonal skills with a group of new 
friends under the watchful eye of a 
confident, trusted leader who cares 
deeply, who listens carefully, and gives 
you good advice when it is needed — 
isn’t that what camp is all about? 

When you have leaders with the 
qualities described above working in 
environments containing the basics of 
empowerment, great things happen. 


27 




Young people grow and learn, they 
develop skills and powers. And they 
develop the character they will need to be 
able to make good and wise use of those 
powers in years to come. 

A Challenge for Camping 

The development of character and 
excellence — the facilitation of personal 
powers and individual becoming — is one 
of the highest goals any institution or 
organization can aspire to. Few of our 
traditional institutions are ready or willing 
to undertake this important task. Most of 
them lack the kind of open, challenging 
environment necessary to carry it out. 
Camps are ideally suited for this 
challenge. 

Camp — and other outdoor and 
experiential education programs — is a 
natural place to empower individuals and 
enhance their character. By under¬ 
standing the importance of character and 
applying the basic principles of 
empowerment the camping movement can 
quietly and unassumingly transform itself 
into a leader in the development of 
character — on the cutting edge of 
human growth and development — 
without losing the naturalness, the 
spontaneity and the closeness that makes 
camp unique. 

Our society is in a difficult transition. 
Old ways do not work, new ways have yet 


to be invented. It will take all we can do to 
successfully navigate through the tides of 
change which threaten to capsize us. We 
can no longer afford to trust monolithic 
institutions such as schools and govern¬ 
ments to care for us and for our develop¬ 
ment. It is up to all of us — in any and all 
the ways we can — to take charge of our 
lives, our learning and our growth. It is up 
to us to lead ourselves. And to equip our 
children to lead themselves. Self¬ 
leadership is the basis of all effective 
leadership. It is a critical factor in whether 
or not we make it through these changing 
times successfully. 

The absence of ineffectiveness of 
leadership implies the absence of 
vision, a dreamless society, and this 
will result, at best in the maintenance 
of the status quo or, at worst, in the 
disintegration of our society because 
of lack of purpose and cohesion. 

Warren Bennis in Leaders. 

This, then, is the challenge — em¬ 
powering our youth to create their own 
vision, take charge of their own develop¬ 
ment, shape their own character and start 
on a path toward excellence. It is a 
challenge worthy of the best of us. 
Nothing less than the continued stability 
and flourishing of our selves and our 
world is at stake. Could there be a more 
appropriate and exciting challenge for the 
camping movement? Could there be a 


more empowering vision for us all as we 
head toward the 21st Century? 


* References attributed to Ken Low 
from unpublished briefing papers pre¬ 
pared for the Action Studies Institute. 

** Warren Bennis’s research is detailed in 
Leaders , by Warren Bennis and Burt 
Namus, Harper and Row, 1985. 



UNDER OPEN SKIES 

A CAMPER S PRAYER 

God of the open air, we rejoice that we can live in touch with 
sunshine and rain and growing things. The drum-beat of a 
shower on the tent roof, the fragrance of fresh, cool forest trails, 
an evening under the stars all speak to us of You. No one but you 
could ever supply such beauty. No one but You could ever 
provide the inner strength which comes from sleeping under the 
stars, or singing together around a campfire, or paddling down a 
sleepy river. We feel we must absorb every bit of joy and 
companionship that comes from life together in the open. 

The trees stand tall and straight above us, and we feel that we 
want to grow to be like them. The wind sings in the trees, and we 
try to remember that sound forever. The stars sparkle in a dark 
night sky, and we fall asleep wondering. Oh God, keep us good 
campers, we pray . . . throughout all our lives . . . striving to 
uphold all that is pure and ideal. God of the open air, this is our 
prayer today. AMEN. 

A BENEDICTION 

May the Silence of the hills, 

The Joy of the wind, 

The Music of the birds, 

The Fire of the sun, 

The strength of the trees, 

And the Faith of youth, 

In all of which is God, 

Be in our hearts 
Now and evermore. 


submitted by Madelene Allen 
Camp Ouareau, St. Donat, Quebec 

A prayer adapted from the Cub-Scout Prayer by 
Catherine Marshall (p. 36. God Loves You.) 

Dear Father, this is Joan talking. 

Of course You know 
I’m at camp. 

I’ve tried to be good today — 
and I sure am having a good time. 

Swimming and paddling that canoe, 
and going fishing are such fun. 

Tm glad You thought of making cool blue water, 
and sunshine and silvery fish. 

But, God, what about that fish that got away yesterday? 
Where did he go? 

You make such pretty things, God. 

I like the way the pine trees stand up on the hill. 

I like the red of the flash of the wing of the red-winged 
blackbird, 

the funny feel of the milkweed pod I picked, 
the big, golden moon, 

and the feel of wiggling my toes in the cool, wet sand. 

Thank you God for making all these things. 

Oh . . . and please bless Mom and Dad and my friends and 
my counsellor, and help me be a good camper all day today. 
Good Morning God. 


28 






ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAMS 


PROGRAMS TO USE ON THE MOVE 

by Jean Funk 

Chairman of the Environmental Concerns Committee ofC. C.A. 


Les Programmes en marche 

Les chasses suivantes peuvent etre utilises par un 
conseiller en route des activites, aux promenades et aux 
voyages k canot... ou seui comme activite speciale de la 
nature. Principalement, ces chasses sont pour les enfant 
ag6sde6&12 ans. 

The following hunts can be used by a counsellor while going to 
program activities ; on day hikes and canoe trips... or as a special 
nature activity in themselves . These are primarily for 6-12 year 
olds . 


THIRTY-SECOND FIELD TRIP 

Are you looking for an outdoor winter activity which will 
neither numb the brain, freeze the fingers, nor cause hypo¬ 
thermia? Weil, here it is! After defining boundaries, send partici¬ 
pants out individually, in pairs, or in groups to find (but not 
bring back) examples of the things below. You may choose to 
give them each item individually or a list of several to be found 
within a certain time limit. You may wish to choose only items 
which are related to your particular theme of study (such as 
‘change’, ‘homes’ or ‘communities’). Results may be discussed 
orally or recorded on a worksheet. 


YOU HAVE THIRTY SECONDS TO FIND: 

a) something that is smooth 

b) something that is rough 

c) a living thing 

d) a dead thing 

e) a source of food 

f) something that is brown 

g) something whose name starts with the letter ‘D’ 

h) something that has three or more syllables in its name 

i) a type of shelter 

j) the most common color 

k) something that is circular 

l) something that is really neat 

m) the oldest thing 

n) the youngest thing 

o) two things that are alike 

p) the tallest thing 

r) something that is changing 

s) something that is more than two colors 

t) something that is moist 

u) something that has a strong smell 

v) the loudest sound you hear 

w) something you dislike 

x) something that is hard 

y) something that is soft 

z) your favorite thing 


PLANT SCAVENGER HUNT 

Scavenger hunts are a useful tool to capture and focus interest 
on specific natural objects. This particular activity is an opening 
activity to create an awareness of the diversity of plants and plant 
happenings. 

Materials 

Copies of the “Plant Scavenger Hunt” Sheet 

Plastic bags 

Pencils 

Magnifiers 

Optional: One or more prizes for winning teams (If possible, 

the prizes should be related to plants; e.g., fruit, 
something made of wood, or handicrafts made 
from plants). 

Location 

In a wooded area or field 
Outdoor Activity 

1. Have participants assemble in small teams. Explain the 
ground rules of the scavenger hunt paying particular 
attention to safety concerns such as boundaries, staying 
with one’s team and returning on an agreed upon signal 
(e.g., whistle blowing). 

2. Establish a time limit (perhaps a half hour) and let the 
participants begin their search. 

3. Check off each item for the first team back and see if they 
have all the items, let these participants help in judging 
the other teams coming in. 

4. When the time is up have all the teams sit in one large 
circle and share the items one by one. 

5. Where items are particularly interesting encourage children 
to ask questions and speculate on the answers. 

6. Save all items for later work, or return items back to the 
natural environment. 

Follow-up Activities 

1. Have participants sort the scavenger hunt items into groups 
such as the following: 

— interesting shapes or patterns 

— interesting smells 

— interesting colors 

— interesting to touch 

— seeds 

— insect homes or food 

— foods for mammals 

2. Have groups of participants make posters promoting 
diversity and/or bulletin board displays from the items 
collected. 

3. Do a follow-up study on one or more of the display 
topics: seeds, insect homes or food for wild creatures. 

4. As an alternate activity have participants make a village or 
collage-poem or collage-story using the items they brought 
back. 


29 





A NATURE HUNT 


MASTER LIST: DO NOT CUT 


Purpose: A fun way to explore a new area. It’s also a great 

“quiet down and explore” activity for a very 
active day. 


MASTER LIST: DO NOT CUT 

** Please do not pick, harm or remove any piece of anything that 
is still alive. 

1. Bring back something you can see light through. 

2. Bring back something to make music with. 

3. Bring back a soft rock. 

4. Bring back something gooey (use container provided). 

5. Find three things that have changed — 

since this morning... 
since last winter... 
since you were bom... 

Tell us about them 

6. Find and draw a picture of something that is ending its 
life and something that is beginning its life. 

7. Bring back the sound of the rain (even if it isn’t raining 
right now). 

8. Find something natural to mark with. Bring back a picture 
you drew with it. 

9. Find 3 signs that animals are living here. What animals 
do you think they are? List them. 

10. Describe something that changes so slowly that you don’t 
notice. 

11. Draw the wind. 

12. Bring back a piece of litter — write a story about its life. 
What would happen to it if you left it where you found it? 

13. Measure and record the length of the shadow of the tallest 
person in your group, using a finger, toe, hand, foot, arm 
or leg as a ruler. 

14. Find something you would like to make better. Describe 
how ydu would improve it. 

15. Using everyone in your group, make a human sculpture to 
show the other groups something that you saw on your 
hike. 

16. Bring back rubbings of 3 different textures. Place an object 
(eg. a piece of bark) under your paper, then run your 
crayon over the paper. This will be your rubbing. Tell us 
where you got your rubbing from. 

17. Draw a picture with 5 different colours you see. 

18. Find something that you don’t understand and make up a 
question about it to ask the others. 

19. List 10 words to describe a natural object 10 paces to your 
left. 

20. Find, then draw or describe a sign of the season. 


ECO-SYSTEM... TREASURE HUNT 


Purpose: To stimulate participants to question the things 

they observe about them, especially out-of- 
doors. 


Activity Divide the children into groups and have them 
Description: find the item or find examples of the list from 
both land and water. 


Follow-up A quiet-down activity after the hunt can be a 
Activity: discussion of how these “treasures” are inter¬ 

related (food chains or webs). 


— three oxygen-makers 

— three oxygen-takers 
—■ a sign of the season 

— a camouflaged animal; one that can hide 
well in its surroundings 

— an important food smaller than your 
fingernail 

— something very old 

— an animal that carried its own house 

— signs of an animal larger than a cat 


Purpose: 
Background: 


Activity 
Description: 


Expected 
Results: 


THE QUESTION HUNT* 

To stimulate children to question the things they 
perceive about them, especially out-of-doors. 

You’ve decided to introduce a group of partici¬ 
pants to a variety of ‘habitats’. 

Your prime concern is to initiate QUESTIONING 
and to put the load of activity and the responsi¬ 
bility for answering questions on the shoulders 
of the whole group. 

(1) Having selected three or four suitable sites in 
advance of the exercise, take the group to 
the first area. 

(2) Explain to the group that each person will 
have 3 - 5 minutes to search the immediate 
area to come up with a question to be shared 
with the group. 

(3) When the area has been searched, gather the 
group together and have each person give 
their question . . . but insist that no answers 
be given. The leader should also have a 
question (hopefully a provocative one that 
leaves the group curious). 

(4) Go to the second site; repeat the activity, 
but this time after all the questions have 
been given, ask for answers to any of the 
questions posed (but notably not trying to 
come up with answers to all the questions). 

(5) The activity can be extended by having: 

i) an easy and a hard question at subse¬ 
quent sites, or 

ii) having the participants prepare a 
written list of questions at a later site, or 

iii) having teams compose questions to¬ 
gether to initiate some sharing and 
teamwork. 

(1) You will have initiated the questioning pro¬ 
cess. 

(2) You will have established that answers are 
neither expected nor necessary for every 
question. 

(3) The participants will have felt accomplish¬ 
ment at asking questions as opposed to being 
afraid to show their ignorance. 

(4) You will have some feeling for the com¬ 
petence of your group members and may be 
able to assign some participants to be 
‘experts’ in certain areas. If nothing else, 
the expert might simply be designated by 
virtue of carrying the appropriate identifi¬ 
cation guide or field manual. 


♦Adapted from “Alberta Environment” 





Look what we are looking for — a new look in 
the CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE! 




PICTURES 



Please send along the pick of your pix from the camping season. The staff of Camp 
Chiplaquorgan (N.B.) did and their photos are in this issue along with pictures of Camp 
Big Cove (N.S.), Gracefield Centre Presbyterian Church Camp (Que.) and Ontario 
March of Dimes Camp (top to bottom). 


SEND PICTURES OF: 

SITES & FACILITIES 
CONFERENCES & WORKSHOPS 
MOOD & NATURE 
ACTIVITIES & PROGRAM 
CAMPERS & STAFF 


We are ready to use black and white prints and good 
contrast colour prints, slides or negatives. 


SEND PICTURES TO: 

CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
R.R. # 1 

HUNTSVILLE, ONTARIO 
POA 1K0 


31 








POSTMASTER / MAIL CARRIER 

If undelivered after five days, please return copies to the editorial offices: 
CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
Canadian Camping Association 
1806 Avenue Rd. t Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 


MAITRE DE POSTES/FACTEUR n i / 


flAIIMt Ut rUOICO/THV/itun f/*. U 

Si non • livre apr6s 5 jours S.V.P. retournez les copies aux bliteaux des 6ditoriaux: p 

CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 

Canadian Camping Association \ f MEUunn l 7 

1806 Avenue Rd., Suite 2, \ - ^ • E 

Toronto, Ont. M5M 3Z1 Xy N X 545866 


73 l 


2 I 


Mr. & Mrs. William Babcock 
Kettleby, Ontario 
Canada LOG 1J0 


British Columbia Camping Association 

1200 Hornby St. 

Vancouver, B.C. V6Z 2E2 
Phone: (604) 687-3333 

Alberta Camping Association 

c/o Y.M.C.A., 332 6th Ave. S.W., 

Calgary, Alta. T2P 0R5 
Phone: (403) 269-6156 

Saskatchewan Camping Association 

c/o Saskatoon Y.M.C.A. 

25 - 22 St. East 
Saskatoon, Sask. S7K 0C7 
Phone: (306) 652-7515 ext. SCA 


Manitoba Camping Association 

Admin. Centre for Recreation and Sport 
1700 Ellice Ave. 

Winnipeg, Man. R3H 0B1 
Phone: (204) 786-5641 

Ontario Camping Association 

1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, 

Toronto, Ont. M5M 3Z1 
Phone: (416) 781-0525 

Association des Camps du Quebec 

4545 Pierre de Coubertin 
Montreal, Quebec 
H1V3R2 
(514) 252-3113 


New Brunswick Camping Association 

P.O. Box 263 

Moncton, New Brunswick E1C 8K9 
506-853-3333 (Ian Fowler) 

Nova Scotia Camping Association 

Box 3243 S. 

Halifax, N.S. B3J 3H5 
Phone: (902) 424-4329 

Newfoundland and Labrador Camping 
Association 

Box 192 

St.John’s, Nfld. A1C5J2 



SUBSCRIPTION INFORMATION 

Canadian Camping Magazine is the official publication of the Canadian Camping Association. 
Editorial offices of the Magazine are located at R.R. #1, Huntsville, Ontario, P0A 1K0. 

Membership in the C.C.A., as a result of membership in a provincial camping association, 
includes a subscription to the Magazine. Non member subscription is $8.00/year. Single issue price 
is $2.00. Make cheques payable to the Canadian Camping Association. Send subscriptions, sub - 
missions, or address changes to the editorial offices. 

Canadian Camping Magazine is published four times yearly. Deadlines for submissions are 
October 1, December 1, February 15 and May I. Material in Canadian Camping Magazine may 
not be reproduced in any form without the expressed written permission of the editor. Copyright 
1986 Canadian Camping Association. 

LES INFORMATIONS DE LA SOUSCRIPTION 

Canadian Camping Magazine est la publication officielle de I’Association des Camps 
du Canada. Les bureaux de la r6daction se trouvent & R.R. # 1, Huntsville, Ontario P0A 
1K0. 

L’adh6slon & I’A.C.C., le r6sultat de I’adhfesion & une association provinciale, com* 
prend une souscription & la revue. La souscription pour ceux qui ne sont pas les 
membres coute $8.00 par an. Une livraison coute $2.00. Faites les cheques & I'ordre de 
"Canadian Camping Association". Envoyez les souscriptions, les soumissions ou les 
changements d’adresse aux bureaux de la redaction. 

Canadian Camping Magazine est publi quatre fois par an. Les dates limites pour les 
soumissions sont le 1 er octobre, le 1 er d6cembre, ie 15 6me f6vrier et le 1 er mai. Les 
matferaux daus "Canadian Campinq Magazine" ne peuvent pas 6tre reproduit sans 
autorisation de I’fediteur. Copyright 1986 Canadian Camping Association. 


If you would like to receive a complete 
English translation of any article in 
Canadian Camping Magazine, send a 
stamped self addressed envelope with 
your request to Canadian Camping 
Magazine, R.R. #1, Huntsville, Ontario 
P0A 1K0. 


Si vous voudriez recevoir une 
traduction complete en frangais d*un 
article dans Canadian Camping 
Magazine, envoyez une enveloppe 
timbr6e pour la r6ponse avec votre 
demande A: Canadian Camping 
Magazine, R.R. # 1 , Huntsville, 
Ontario P0A 1K0. 



COVER 

The cover photo of the Washington Monument was taken in 
Washington, D.C. at the Second International Camping 
Congress. The theme of the Congress was ‘Our Fragile World*. 

LA COUVERTURE 

La photo illustree en couverture du monument de Washington 
irent du deuxieme “International Camping Congress” & 
Washington, D.C. Le theme du Congres etait “Notre monde 
fragile”. 


32 

























