
L'ASSOCIATION DES 
CAMPS DU CANADA - 
PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 


OFFICIAL PUBLICATION 
OF THE CANADIAN 
CAMPING ASSOCIATION 


CAINI AD I AIM 


Photo Courtesy Jay Haddad 




Letters to the Editor 


Dear Canadian Camping: 

Congratulations on your first issue of 
Canadian Camping with its new format. A 
very readable and good issue. 

Charles Plewman interview was excellent 
and provided a great insight to the 
beginnings of the camping movement in 
Canada. He indeed was a great man and a 
leader in the field. 

Keep up the good work! 

Your editorial on Camp Director 
Certification THE TIME IS NOW! Raises a 
whole debate that has been going on in 
bits and pieces for years. I think that there 
are a whole series of questions that must 
be answered before we even consider the 
Certification of Camp Directors. At the 
beginnings of the Society of Camp 
Directors we had great discussions on the 
role of government in camping, we talked 
about the specialized, specific body of 
knowledge that is necessary before one 
could even begin to talk about a 
“profession” and all that signifies for 
camps and camping. We in Ontario seem 
to have a tendency to think that all 
camping in Canada is the same... in 
reality it isn’t! There are whole degrees of 
difference in sophistication in camping in 
Canada. I have no difficulty at all in seeing 
the Camping Associations as educational 
and inspirational organizations but I have 
some real trouble when we start into the 
business of regulating the industry and 
that is what a program of National 
Standards or Certification will do. 

I feel very strongly that we cloud the issue 
when we talk about protecting the general 
public. It is a symptom of our times that 


“the poor old general public” is too dumb 
to protect itself! We give whole reams of 
“How to Pick a Camp for Your Child” and I 
wonder how many parents take the time to 
do the job properly? I guess what I am 
hearing is that we the noble Camp Director 
will have to take “parents” by the hand 
and protect them from themselves. If 
“camping” was a high profit business that 
attracted unscrupulous operators I would 
be concerned, but that is not so, all that 
wheeler-dealers have to do is look at the 
balance sheets of most Camps in Canada 
and they couldn’t run fast enough to stay 
out of the business. 

I believe that we have our share of 
incompetent Camp Directors, who have 
insufficient knowledge to do a real quality 
job but I do not believe we have people 
who are taking the public or trying to do 
less than a good job. I know some of our 
numbers who claim ten years experience 
in camping but in reality have had one year 
ten times .. .we have to grow in the 
business and the only way we can do it as 
a movement, is through educating those 
who wish to work as Camp Directors, the 
only way this can be done, is how we have 
been successfully doing it for 80 years and 
that is to help those who will learn and 
know that those who don’t will fall by the 
wayside. 

I am all in favour of guidelines and many, 
many sessions so that all may grow ... 
but certification and all it implies ... now 
is not the time and I do not believe that 
we will ever see that time being ripe! 

Warmest regards, 

Ron Johnstone 


Dear Canadian Camping: 

The new format looks good. Hope you can 
keep the style up - must be more 
expensive. 

Re: your editorial - The American Camping 
Association Certification system seems 
cumbersome to me - too many levels and 
a rat’s nest to administer, I would think. 

I have always thought certification of 
Directors is at least as important as the 
Facilities/Program standards approach. 
Assuring competent staff makes as much 
sense as do most provincial standards 
programs. 

The topic has been considered for years 
though and the problem is usually the 
“How” to do, rather than the “Why”. 
Camping people are diverse and what may 
be a high standard for one may be a very 
low standard for another. Certainly, the 
exercise of determining the best qualifica¬ 
tion for a Director and the development of 
some training approaches appropriate for 
these qualifications, would be most helpful 
for serious individuals who want to 
improve their competence and achieve 
recognition in this field. 

Guidelines from the National body might 
assist local associations prepare training 
events that could develop one day into a 
certification program. 

All the best, 

Lome Bowering 
President 

British Columbia Camping Association. 


CONTENTS 


Spring 1982 


Vol.34, No. 1 

4 Interview: June Labbett 

by Jay Haddad 

5 Book Review/Publication News 

6 President’s Perspective 

by Jocelyn Palm 

7 The Great Canadian Canoe Exposition 

by Michael Hatton 

8 

10 

11 

13 

Why Get III From Foods? 

Agriculture Canada 

Group Dynamics Exercise 
by Jay Haddad 

Black Flies 

by J. Harry Ebbs, M.D. 

International Camping Congress Update 
by John Latimer 



Editorial Policy 


The Ideas expressed in the Editorial are those of the Editorial Committee and not necessarily those of the Canadian 
Camping Association/Association des Camps du Canada. The views are expressed to provide stimulation and com¬ 
ment. We invite you to respond in "Letters to the Editor" which we hope will be a regular feature. • 


This Association gratefully acknowledges ■ Government of Canada Gouvernement du Canada 

the financial support of H^r Fitness and Amateur Sport Condition physique et Sport amateur 


2 


EDITORIAL 

Competition in Camps: 
Values in Turmoil! 

Does camping mirror the society in which we live - reflecting our 
urban values, material gain, class-consciousness and self- 
serving ambitions? Or should camping help create new ideals 
among our young people - a sense of esteem, altruism, higher¬ 
serving values in order to enrich and enhance our emotional, 
psychological and spiritual well-being? 

To the degree we believe in the latter, we must NOT tolerate 
competition, as we know it, in our camps, because it undermines 
those higher values we profess to believe in and perpetuate. As 
soon as a race is organized with ten children where one child 
wins, you have nine losers; if four relay teams compete, three are 
losers; if you have a first prize, you have losers! 

Let’s examine the word “loser”. In our culture we react to 
“losers” with put-downs, undermining of confidence, disparage¬ 
ment and embarrassment. Nobody wants to be called a “loser”; 
indeed, nobody wants to BE a “loser”. And yet our cities, through 
competition, create losers - MILLIONS OF THEM! Our camps, 
unfortunately, are doing the same thing! 

Awards, prizes, badges, competition, material success should 
all be discouraged in camp programming. Our standard really 
should be co-operation, intrinsic motivation, individual levels, 
peer teaching and ego enhancement. If we say that out camps 
should reflect society and that camps should prepare children for 
survival within that society - we must ask “survival for what?” To 
the extent we are reflecting and modelling our society, we can ex¬ 
pect our campers to reflect a society which increasingly uses 
alcohol, tobacco, drugs; we can expect increased heart diesase, 
stress, tension, psychosomatic illness, aggression, apathy and 
fatigue; we can expect a continued increase in the largest grow¬ 
ing suicide category: 14 years of age to 25 years of age! One child 
in three under the age of 14 in North America is sexually active - 
we should expect an increase! Depression, anxiety, suicide, 
truancy, family breakdown, lack of spirituality, lack of a strong 
self-concept! This is our reality! Is this the society our camps are 
trying so hard to reflect? Of course we’re all “losers” - and when 
the heroes or “winners” of our time are people like John McEnroe 
and Brooke Shields, our values indeed are in critical need of re¬ 
examination! 

We urge all camps to examine carefully their values and philo¬ 
sophy. Is your camp programme reflecting those values and 
philosophies? 

1) Eliminate competition and challenges where you have winners 
and losers. 

2) If a child does succeed in a task or event, do not give a material 
reward; rather, praise and reinforce that she has done her very 
best. 

3) Encourage co-operation and sharing: through tasks, chores, 
canoe trips, responsibilities, games and challenges. 

4) Try to ensure that the game, activity or skill is an “end” in itself 
(toward co-operation, sharing and ego enhancement) and not a 
“means” toward the end - namely WINNING. 

5) Never belittle or berate a person; a behaviour or remark, yes; 
the person, never. This difference is critical! 

Competition, as we know it, is a destructive force in our society 

- it should NOT be tolerated, reinforced or accepted in our 
camps! • 


L'asprit da competition dans 
las camps parturba nos valaurs 

Les camps refl£tent-ils la societe dans laquelle nous vivons? 
Laissent-ils transparaitre nos habitudes urbaines, nos gains 
matgriels, notre esprit de caste et nos ambitions personnelles? 
Ne doivent-ils pas plutdt faire naitre chez les jeunes des aspira¬ 
tions qui les enrichissent et les gl£vent sur le plan gmotionnel, 
psychologique et spiritual, tels le sens de I’estime, de I’altruisme 
et le dgsir de faire oeuvre utile? 

Dans la mesure oil nous avons foi en ces notions nous ne 
devons PAS tolgrer la competition dans nos camps telle que 
nous la concevons, car elle mine les valeurs £lev6es auxquelles 
nous disons croire et que nous voulons perpgtuer. Des que 
s’organise une course entre dix enfants oil il n’y aura qu’un seul 
gagnant, nous avons neuf perdants. Si quatre gquipes entrent en 
lice, trois perdent. Qui dit premier prix dit perdants! 

Examinons le mot “perdant.” Dans notre socigtg actuelle, ce 
mot est synomyme d’humiliation, de perte de confiance, de 
dgnigrement de d’embarjas. Personne ne veut etre appelg “per¬ 
dant” et encore moins I’ETRE. Pourtant, par le truchement de la 
competition, nous fabriquons des perdants dans notre societe 
urbaine et ce, PAR MILLIONS! Pour comble de malheur nous 
faisons de meme dans nos camps. 

Nous devrions bannir de nos programmes pour les jeunes: 
trophges, prix, insignes, competitions et autres gages de succgs. 
Au lieu, nous devrions encourager l’esprit de collaboration, la 
motivation, I’atteinted’objectifs personnels, I’entraideet la valori¬ 
sation de soi. S’il est vrai que nos camps doivent reflgter notre 
societe et prgparer nos enfants £ survivre demain £ son image, 
nous pouvons bien nous demander “dans quel but”. Dans la 
mesure oil nos camps sont un miroir de la societe actuelle, e’est 
un tissu social qui fait un usage croissant d’alcool, de tabacet de 
drogue que nous prenons pour mod£le. Nous pouvons nous at- 
tendre £ une augmentation du stress, de la fatigue, de I’apathie, 
de I’agressivite, des maladies psychosomatiques et des troubles 
cardiaques. Nous pouvons prgvoir un taux plus glevg de suicide 
entre les £ges de 14 et 25 ans. Un enfant sur trois de moins de 14 
ans a des relations sexuelles en Amgrique du Nord et les chiffres 
pourraient encore augmented La depression, I’anxiete, le 
suicide, I’gcole buissonniere, les dgsunions des families, le man¬ 
que d’idgologie le manque de conception de soi... telle est la 
rgalitg vers laquelle nous nous acheminons. Est-ce ce module 
que nos camps dgsirent suivre £ tout prix? Nous sommes tous 
“perdants” et lorsque les hgros ou les gagnants de notre gpoque 
sont des John McEnroe and des Reng Simard, il est grand temps 
de rgexaminer nos valeurs. 

Nous vous conseillons vivement de repenser votre philosophie 
et vos conceptions des valeurs. Le programme de votre camp est- 
il etabli en fonction des principes suivants? 

1) Nous gvitons la competition et les dgfis oCj il y a des gagnants 
et des perdants. 

2) Nous n’accordons pas de prix lorsqu’un enfant rgussit dans 
I’accomplissement d’une t£che et d’un sport. Au lieu, nous le 
fglicitons et lui disons qu’il a fait de son mieux. 

3) Nous incitons les jeunes £ dgvelopper un esprit de collabora¬ 
tion et de partage dans I’exgcution de travaux, de t£ches, de 
voyages en canot, de jeux ou d’gpreuves sportives. 

4) Nous nous assurons que les jeux, activitgs sportives ou gpreu- 
ves d’adresse servent £ une autre fin que celle de procurer une 
recompense (encourager l’esprit de collaboration et de par¬ 
tage et la satisfaction de soi.) 

5) Nous ne rabaissons jamais I’enfant, nous ne I’admonestons 
pas. Nous passons un jugement ou une remarque sur sa con- 
duite, mais sur sa personne, jamais. La difference est gnorme! 
L’esprit de competition, e’est bien connu, est une force 

destructive dans notre societe. Nous ne devons pas le tolgrer, 
I’encourager, voire m£me I’accepter dans nos camps. • 


CCA Newsletter: Jay Haddad (Editor) 
Editorial Board: John Latimer 
John Walker 
Murray Wickwire 

Editorial Office is located at the CCA/ACC 
Office, 1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, Toronto, 
Ontario M5M 3Z1. 


Canadian Camping is an official publication of the Canadian Camping Association/ 
Association des Camps du Canada. Canadian Camping (ISSN 008-3119) is published 
quarterly. CCA/ACC membership includes a subscription; non-member subscription 
$6.00 a year or $15.00 - 3 years. Send address changes to CCA/ACC, 1806 Avenue Road, 
Suite 2, Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1. Material in Canadian Camping may not be reproduced 
in any form, without written permission of the editor. Copyright 1982 Canadian Camping 
Association/Association des Camps du Canada. 


3 


INTERVIEW 


On March 8, 1980, Jay Haddad interviewed 
June Labbett at the Royal York Hotel. The 
following are excerpts from that interview: 

CCA: June, where was your first camping 
experience? 

JL: As a little girl, my first experience was 
Camp Ahshunyoong on Lake Simcoe; next I 
went to Oconto. I was about 12 years old at 
that time. When I was around 17 years old I 
was in physical and health education and I 
went to another camp to get some experi¬ 
ence - that camp was Glen Bernard. 

CCA: Do you clearly remember your first 
camp director at Oconto? 

JL: Miss Halliday- I remember her very well; 
she started Camp Oconto in 1925. When I 
later returned to Camp Oconto, it was when 
Cliff and I were married and we took over 
from Miss Halliday in 1949. She was there 
that summer with us. 

CCA: Who was your Director during your 3 
years at Glen Bernard? 

JL: Miss Edgar was the Director. I was also a 
Counsellor at a camp called Drades on Lake 
Simcoe - that was Roy Bonisteel, who’s now 
a television personality; his wife ran that 
camp. I worked at the Y.W.C.A. as physical 
education teacher; part of my job was to 
direct Tapawingo - I did that for 4 years. 

CCA: Was this your first experience at Direc¬ 
ting? 

JL:Yes, - Camp Tapawingo and I think it 
was 1944. 

CCA: When did you meet Cliff? 

JL: I met Cliff on a ski train going to St. 
Adele in 1948; we courted for a couple of 
years and we were married March 4, 1949. 
We told Miss Halliday we would buy Oconto 
on May 24, 1949. 

CCA: Was this a longtime aspiration of 
yours - to own a camp? 

JL: We had wanted to buy a camp, yes; we 
realized this is what we wanted to do. We 
looked at another camp and were seriously 
considering it but we decided against it. I 
remember clearly the spring of 1949 - I loved 
Oconto so much and I wanted Cliff to see it 
and, of course, to love it as well. It poured 
rain the entire weekend - Zerata Slack and 
Dorothy Jackson, who had been teachers of 
mine in Physical Education, took us up to 
Oconto (Miss Halliday was not well enough 
to go) and I was convinced that Cliff couldn’t 
like this place - muddy, pouring rain, a very 
dismal weekend. On the way home we 
couldn’t talk because Zerata and Dorothy 
were in the car; finally when we got home I 
asked Cliff what he thought and he said “It 
looks like a really great place!’’ What a good 
feeling! 

CCA: What made Miss Halliday ready to sell 
Oconto? 



JL: She was caring for her mother who was 
quite ill at the time; her mother died in May 
of 1949.1 think, though, that she felt she was 
ready to sell - she was 55 years old and had 
thought about it for quite some time. She 
had other people look at the camp and had 
openly talked to some of her own staff about 
taking over. 

CCA: Do you remember your very first appli¬ 
cation or your very first staff member you 
hired? 

JL: (pause) A name that does stand out is 
Alda Pallson; she was our music director 
and she was about the same age as I was. 
She was with us for 12 years - a beautiful 
girl from Iceland. Oh, I do remember our first 
camper - it was a girl by the name of Shirley 
Linnington and her sister Nedra. I remember 
visiting their home and their mother said: 
“My daughters said ‘you’ll really like her, 
Mom, because she’s a suit lady just like 
you’.” 

CCA: What was the camp's favourite acti¬ 
vity back in '49 and '50? 

JL:The campers enjoyed swimming the 
most, because of the introduction of the 
Chapman Cup. Music and drama were 
popular also. 

CCA: What are some of the rules or tradi¬ 
tions that stick out in your mind from the 
earlier days? 

JL: Girls, strangely enough, were allowed to 
smoke IN THEIR TENTS back in those years 

- I’m talking about girls on staff. We decided 
very soon that this wasn’t a safe practice. 

One tradition that we did keep for years 
which we have since dropped is the fact that 
every Counsellor was addressed as “Miss”. 
Oconto was unique in this regard and be¬ 
cause we’ve been teased - as you well know 

- many of our older staff did not want to give 
up this tradition. Every time the counsellors 
arrived at the beginning of each summer, I 
would ask them if they wanted to keep it or 
drop it; finally, about six years ago we had a 
large number of new staff who swung the 
vote to drop the title “miss”. 


One thing we did away with the very first 
year - there used to be a cup given for the 
Best All-Around Camper and I just couldn’t 
live with that; we changed it out first year to 
a tribe Shield (camp has two tribes) and this 
was a fun thing, not a competitive thing; any 
silly little game or challenge earned points 
toward this shield; everyone worked 
together for this. 

(Ed. note: see Editorial, page 3) 

CCA: Did you have many tests and awards 
and have you seen an increase or decrease? 

JL: Yes, we had many, but there has been a 
definite decrease. Tests are available, but 
they’re not stressed or emphasized now. 
Younger kids, cubs or brownies ages, really 
do go after tests and badges, but it doesn’t 
matter as much to the older girls. The skill 
level is perhaps as good or better than when 
they were motivated by badges. 

CCA: As far as " numbers" are concerned - 
have there been increases or decreases over 
the years? 

JL:We have held our numbers pretty con¬ 
stant over 30 years - that’s one thing we 
haven’t changed. We have changed the 
facilities though. There was some destruc¬ 
tion from the force of two hurricanes - ex¬ 
tremely bad storms; fortunately, no one was 
hurt in either one. Each storm lasted only 
five minutes. 

CCA: During the summer? 

JL: Yes, and they both swept through camp 
coincidentally on Sundays. The first storm 
took 18 tents, I believe, and we then con¬ 
structed some cabins. 

CCA: Has riding always been an activity in 
Oconto? 

JL: Yes, Miss Halliday had horseback riding 
the first year of camp. Mr. Whitewood, who 
used to be on Pottery Road, supplied the 
horses. The one awards cup that we have 
kept is the Sonny Whitewood Riding Cup 
and there is a competition every year for that 
particular cup. 

CCA: When was your first association with 
the Ontario Camping Association? 

JL: I became involved with O.C.A. when I 
was in Phys. Ed. way back in 1939; the first 
meeting I remember was with Taylor Statten 
and the meeting was in the Phys. Ed. build¬ 
ing at the University of Toronto. I remember 
he talked about counsellor training. From 
1939 to 1944 I was kind of involved with 
O.C.A., but it wasn’t until I was with the 
Y.W.C.A. in 1944 that I was involved on the 
O.C.A. Board. 

CCA: Who was the President at that time? 
JL: Charlie Plewman and then Arnold Ward. 

CCA: When did you first meet Barbara Gil¬ 
christ, the current President of O.C.A.? (Ed. 
note: Barbara Gilchrist is now the immedi¬ 
ate Past President of O.C.A.). 

JL:When I was a counsellor at Glen Ber¬ 
nard, Barbara was a C.l.T. and John Gilchrist 
was a tripper at the camp. 

CCA: What is your earliest recollection of 
O.C.A. Standards? 


4 



JL: I forget who was President, but I remem¬ 
ber these fights and arguments over 
showers! We had a meeting at the Royal 
York Hotel and I remember A.L. Cochrane 
standing up and saying, “What’s the matter 
with having showers? You can get a water¬ 
ing can and fill it full of water and pour it over 
somebody’s head and call it a shower’’. I 
remember one camp pulling out of O.C.A. 
because of that. 

CCA: Because O.C.A. wanted to impose 
showers as a camp standard? 

JL: Yes, because the O.C.A. wanted showers 
in every camp and others thought you 
should have the freedom to soap up and dive 
into the lake. You must remember that no 
one had showers at all in those days. 
Clothes were washed in the lake; I remem¬ 
ber all of us diving deep with our tooth¬ 
brushes in our mouths to ensure we were 
getting fresh water! 

CCA: You have raised four children through¬ 
out your tenure as owner and director of 
Oconto. Has motherhood provided any dif¬ 
ficulties or challenges to your directing? 

JL: I look back on those years as “fun” 
years, terrific years. I remember when Cliff 
was Chairman of the Conference Commit¬ 
tee; I was nursing Scotty at the time and the 
Conference was at the King Edward Hotel. I 
remember dashing out to meet Annie (who 
took care of the children) in order to nurse 
Scott and then I’d dash back to my session. 
It’s funny as I think about it. Another time, I 
can’t remember which child it was, we had a 
reunion in Ottawa and I remember nursing 
at 10:00 a.m. - caught a plane immediately 


for Ottawa, went to the reunion and flew 
home in time for the 6:00 p.m. feeding. I 
thought that was pretty good! 

CCA: As your children grew up did they en¬ 
joy their camp experiences and where did 
the boys go? 

JL: The boys went to Blackie’s camp mostly, 
Camp Mazinaw. Also, though, we sent them 
to Kandalore, Nominingue and Kilcoo. I 
think we believed a variety of experiences 
would be good for them. We chose people 
we knew within the Association, people we 
admired at that time and thought it would be 
good for the boys to be exposed to those 
people. 

CCA: How about Lisa, your daughter? 

JL: Lisa is seriously considering going into 
camping. 

(Ed. note: Lisa Labbett is now Mrs. Bruce 
Wilson, Director of Camp Oconto.) 

CCA: Did Lisa grow up through the ranks at 
Oconto? 

JL: Yes, she did. You know, we always tried 
to send her to another camp; we would make 
plans and finally I can remember as a little 
girl, Lisa would say: “But Mom, summer 
camp is to go and have fun with your friends 
and my friends are at Camp Oconto.” We 
always gave up and said “okay”; I felt rather 
badly at times, but it’s worked out nicely and 
as Lisa got older she had some different ex¬ 
periences which certainly helped. 

CCA: What made Mary Edgar such a good 
Camp Director? 


JL: (pause) She loved children. It’s that sim¬ 
ple, she loved children. I remember her best 
on indian night because they have a real in- 
dian night at Glen Bernard; I had never been 
exposed to any kind of indian programme at 
Oconto so this was unique for me. My 
friends told me to wear a robe and dress a 
certain way and line up and then O-kee-mak- 
wah will come out of the woods. I didn’t have 
a clue what was going to happen - but I 
remember Miss Edgar tripping down out of 
the trees and everyone saying chants and 
prayers. This was a very significant part of 
the programme and I grew to love it, respect 
it and understand it - Miss Edgar was very 
exceptional, yes. 

CCA: What were your favourite camp activi¬ 
ties as a young girl? 

JL: I loved swimming and canoeing. I 
remember being forced to take drama in 
camp and I didn’t like it; I never liked getting 
up in front of people and being on stage. I 
always loved canoe tripping - Tapawingo 
was exceptional because the trips went out 
onto Georgian Bay, which to me was like the 
ocean. I was a 23 year old counsellor and I 
often thought of this tremendous responsi¬ 
bility I had with these campers entrusted to 
my care. I think “maturity of judgement” is 
so important in leadership and it’s such an 
intangible - we can pass leaders on their 
Bronze and so on, but how do you measure 
what’s really important - maturity of judge¬ 
ment? 

CCA: Thank you very much, June. 

JL: You’re very welcome, but have I said 
enough? • 


BOOK REVIEW 

LEAD ON... COUNSELLOR! 

INNOVATIVE IDEAS FOR 
CAMP LEADERS 

The 6th book from the presses of Camp Taw- 
ingo is dynamite. Four of Tawingo’s staff - 
Jack Pearse, John Jorgenson, Jane McCut- 
cheon and Pat Pearse - have collaborated 
on a book which is primarily a practical ap¬ 
proach to camp leadership, designed to 
meet the needs of the person who is right on 
the firing line all summer... the camp coun¬ 
sellor! 

Portions of the book deal with important 
concepts such as: What it takes to be a 
leader, the leadership role (where do we 
grow from here?), communication skills, the 
need for evaluation, philosophy of program, 
a counsellor’s preparation for camp and the 
administration of the camper unit. But the 
big plus is a handy dandy chapter of pro¬ 
gram resource full of games and activities 
for any and all parts of a camper’s day from 
en route and arrival activities, through out- 
trips and outdoor fun, to a closing campfire. 
Also included are program ideas for the first 
day, at rest hour, at the dining table, at bed¬ 
time, on the last day and every special time 
in between. This is definitely a super book 
for the back pocket of every camp counsel¬ 
lor’s blue jeans. • 


LEAD ON. 

COUNSELLOR! 

Innovative Ideas 



Jack Pearse 

John Jorgensen 

Jane McCutcheon 

Pit Pearse 


NEW SHIPPING & 
BILLING POLICY 

Following a recent cost/benefit analysis, the 
CCA/ACC Board adopted new policies for 
shipping and handling rates for all publica¬ 
tion orders: 

1. A flat rate* for shipping and handling (in¬ 
cluding 3rd class postage) will be applied. 

Orders 

Under $10.00.$1.80 (Prepaid) 

$10.01 - $50.00 . 3.00 (May be billed) 

$50.01 and over-rate determined per order 
‘Shipping and handling rates will be ad¬ 
justed to reflect increased postage and 
wrapping supply costs when necessary. 

2. Monthly interest of 2% will apply on over¬ 
due accounts. 


5 






President's 

By: Jocelyn Palm 


It’s Spring! 

An exciting time when camping people 
begin the serious and specific task of pro¬ 
viding just the right staff member for each 
counselling job. Choosing the appropriate 
person for a role is always a challenge - one 
is never certain that the correct selection 
was made until the individual is seen in ac¬ 
tion. We definitely feel proud of ourselves 
when we see the choice was a good one. 

As CCA/ACC President, I have been 
especially fortunate in the selection by all 
Provincial Associations of three excellent 
Vice Presidents: George Matthews repre¬ 
sents Atlantic Canada; Jane McCutcheon 
represents Quebec and Ontario and Gary 
Luthy has the formidable task to speak on 
behalf of Manitoba, Saskatchewan, Alberta 
and B.C. The respective Provincial Presi¬ 
dents should ensure that the views of their 
province are put forward by their Vice Presi¬ 
dent. 

The selection of Jan James (Alberta) as 
CCA/ACC Secretary is proving to be a wise 
decision. Jan’s knowledge of Canadian 
Camping is invaluable and she also keeps 
the meetings on track. George Ross (Onta¬ 
rio) is a real bonus to CCA/ACC and to the 
National Office. George is a C.A. and is our 
CCA/ACC Treasurer. Cliff Labbett provides 
valuable input in his capacity of Past Presi¬ 
dent. His experience is most helpful. 

Eileen Mayotte (Sask.) chairs the Archives 
Committee. Dorothy Walter (Ont.) is the 
Education Chairman and working to develop 
a scheme for professional development of 
camping people across Canada. Rick Ryan 
(B.C.) has already completed a major task 
with his report from the Funding Commit¬ 
tee. This document will be discussed at the 
CCA/ACC Annual Meeting in Saskatoon, 
May 1st. Marnie Ellis (Que.) is gearing up her 
Public Relations and Promotions Commit¬ 
tee for a Workshop in Toronto prior to the ’82 
Congress. Linda Arnold (B.C.) chairs the Re¬ 
search Committee which is investigating 
projects to be undertaken by the Associa¬ 
tion. Jay Haddad (Ont.) is to be congratula¬ 
ted for this terrific new format of the News¬ 
letter. Wendy Wren, Judy Richards and Beth 
Moon (Ont.) have put a concentrated effort 
into vitalizing the Publications Service and 
each hopes you will promote the sale of 
CCA books when and where possible. Dinny 
Biggs (Ont.) has already reported to you con¬ 
cerning Leadership Development opportuni¬ 
ties (see last issue of Canadian Camping). 
Dinny has information to share amongst the 
provinces and you should take advantage of 
these options. Peter Rasberry (Ont.) is 
developing a CCA/ACC position with re¬ 
spect to Environmental Issues. Rosaire Cor¬ 
bin (Que.) chairs the French Language Com¬ 
mittee and we are constantly seeking his in¬ 
put in order to develop an adequate picture 
of the French Language members of CCA/ 
ACC. 


Perspective 



The CCA/ACC Task Forces each have 
useful projects. John Latimer (Ont.) is leader 
of the mammoth undertaking which will 
result in the 1983 International Camping 
Congress. We are fortunate to have such an 
able leader and offer John every support 
and encouragement. John has been a CCA 
ambassador in many countries and I want 
him to know we are all anxious to assist him 
in every way. Derek Walsh (Qu6.) is investi¬ 
gating the realities of publishing a Canadian 
Camping Magazine. Brian Law (Man.) has 
agreed to review Standards in each province 
and to convene a Workshop in 1983 which 
will compare and analyze these Standards. 
Wayne Perkins (Alta.) is developing a Na¬ 
tional Consultation and Speakers’ Bureau. 
Barry Lowes (Ont.) continues to monitor and 
represent the CCA/ACC membership to the 
Federal Ministry of Employment and Im¬ 
migration. Ivan Robinson (Ont.) is designing 
a plan for an annual workshop for the CCA/ 
ACC Executive and Board. Jack Pearse 
(Ont.) has agreed to pursue a study of the 
possibilities of a CCA/ACC National Confer¬ 
ence in 1985. Janet Adamson (Ont.) will be 
investigating the feasibility of CCA/ACC 
selling products in order to shore up our 
financial situation. 

Marjorie Booth, CCA/ACC Executive 
Director does a superb job of gathering this 
volunteer force into a useful and manage¬ 
able group. Marjorie along with Mary Roy, 
CCA/ACC Office Administrator, provide us 
with an efficient national office. 

You can see that this is an impressive list 
of selected individuals. I think each is an ex¬ 
cellent choice for the specific role. I was 
especially encouraged to find people eager 
to be involved in CCA/ACC. When I con¬ 
tacted the Committee and Task Force Chair¬ 
men, each said ‘yes’ to the request. As the 
President of CCA/ACC, one could not ask 
for better support. We all look forward to 
representing you as these projects material¬ 
ize. • 


Western Region 
News 


Manitoba can boast a terrific new news¬ 
letter! MCA is combining efforts with local 
CCI members to produce a very complete 
newsletter. Look forward to seeing reprints 
of some articles in future issues of Cana¬ 
dian Camping. 

Terry Burkhalter, MCA President, says 
that plans are underway to carry on the 
“Manitoba Sunshine Fund’’ to send children 
to camp. MCA is preparing information on 
how this kind of fund could be set up in your 
province. Contact Terry at the MCA Office 
for your free copy. 

Saskatchewan’s new Acting President is 
Dave Godwin, staff member at John Bosco 
Camp. Dave has represented SCA at CCA/ 
ACC Board before; he is now marshalling 
the forces of a small but effective group of 
volunteers as they plan a training event for 
SCA members in conjunction with the CCA/ 
ACC Board Meeting, April 30, May 1-2. Keep 
up the good work! 

Alberta elected a new President at their 
annual conference. Michael Kenny is a 
transplanted Newfoundlander who is 
responsible for the Outdoor Recreation Pro¬ 
grams of the Calgary Parks & Recreation 
Dept. Jean Funk, Past President, announc¬ 
ed that she is unable to complete her term 
as Past President since she is leaving for ex¬ 
tended trip to Asia in April. Best of luck Jean 
- remember to promote the Congress. 

Several new faces on the ACA Board indi¬ 
cate great leadership and terrific music 
ability in the association!! 

Lome Bowering, President of BCCA, and 
Rick Ryan, Past President, provided warm 
hospitality during Marjorie Booth’s recent 
visit. The BCCA Executive are enthusias¬ 
tically planning their upcoming Counsellor 
Training event. CCA/ACC will assist with all 
travel funds from our Consultant/Advisor 
Project. (See last issue: Planning Workshop 
Report.) Ken Low will share leadership at 
this event about his generic learning model 
and Trials Walking. Lome Bowering is also 
working diligently on plans for MCA Camp 
Elphinstone’s 75th Anniversary Celebration 
on May 22, 1982. • By Gary Luthy 

Central Region News 

The ACQ Conference was the scene of a na¬ 
tional Executive Meeting in Laval, Quebec. 
At this time, members of the Executive were 
interviewed by a writer for the Globe and 
Mail for a national article on Choosing a 
Camp for your child to be carried in the June 
1982 issue Lifestyles. Watch for this issue 
and be ready for increase inquiries for pro¬ 
vincial directories. 

Jocelyn Palm presented Miss Frances 
Kelly, former secretary of the English Sec¬ 
tion of the Quebec Camping Association, 
with a CCA/ACC Certificate of Appreciation. 
Although Miss Kelly was honoured in 
Quebec, her long service to the camping 
movement was recognized by the CCA/ACC 
Board. 


6 


Ontario members are busy planning their 
multitude of theme workshops/courses for 
this spring. (See last issue: Leadership/Skill 
Development Opportunities.) The OCA An¬ 
nual Meeting will be held April 27, 1982 fol¬ 
lowed closely by their one day Counsellors 
Conference. 

Some special anniversaries in the Central 
Region are: 

(Ont) Glen Bernard Camp - 60 years 
(Gu6) Camp Ouareau - 60 years • 

By Jane McCutcheon 



A 


Photo Courtesy Camp Gay Venture 

Eastern Region News 

Kevin Moore, NLCA President seems very 
busy these days! The camps in Newfound¬ 
land & Labrador are busy hiring camp staff 
for the summer and arranging training 
events around the province. 

George Matthews, CANS President, says 
that plans are rolling along ... CANS just 
received a NS government grant to revise 
“Canoe Routes of Nova Scotia.” These 5 
month employees should be able to assist 
camps with combined program standards 
visitation. That’s great news for all the mem¬ 
ber camps in Nova Scotia. 

Debbie Cooper has just completed a two- 
year term as President of the New Bruns- 
wocl Camping Association. Ian Fowler is 
the new President and will begin his term 
with a regional tour, sponsored by a NB 
government grant. He hopes to have a 
clearer idea of the needs of their member 
camps to design their action plan for the 
next year. Good luck to the new executive 
and many thanks to Debbie for her leader¬ 
ship! • By George Matthews 


Five top managerial 
skills 

There are five fundamental skills that effec¬ 
tive executives (camp directors) use when 
dealing with staff. 

• Listening - Thoroughly understanding 
what your employee says and letting your 
employee knwo it. 

• Assertion - Maintaining authority without 
pulling rank or bullying your staff. 

• Conflict resolution - Promoting co¬ 
operation through active solicitation of 
problem-solving ideas. 

• Collaborative decision making - Making 
decisions and drawing up solutions in a 
manner that makes everyone involved feel 
like a winner. 

• Skill selection - Choosing the people with 
the right skills for each task or problem. • 


POEM 

ONE SOLITARY LIFE 

He was born in an obscure village, 
the child of a peasant woman. He grew 
up in still another village, where 
he worked in a carpenter shop until 
he was thirty. Then for three 
years he was an itinerant 
preacher. He never wrote a book. 

He never held an office. He never 
had a family or owned a house, He 
didn’t go 

to college. He never visited a big city. 

He never travelled two hundred miles from 
the place where he was born, 

He did none of the things one 
usually associates with greatness. 

He had no credentials but himself. 

He was only thirty-three when 
the tide of public opinion turned 
against him. His friends ran away. 

He was turned over to his enemies 
and 

went through the mockery of 
a trial. He was nailed to a cross 
between two thieves. While 
He was dying, his executioners 
gambled 

for his clothing, the only property 
He had on earth. When he 
was dead, he was laid in a borrowed 
grave through the pity of a friend. 

Nineteen centuries have come and gone and 

today he is the central figure 

of the human race and the 

leader of mankind’s progress. All 

the armies that ever marched, all 

the 

navies that ever sailed, and all the 
parliaments 

that ever sat, all the kings that ever 
reigned. 

put together, have not affected the 
life of man on this earth as much 
as that - 

ONE SHORT AND SOLITARY LIFE. 


The Great Canadian 
Canoe Exposition 

by: Michael Hatton 

Camp directors looking for program ideas 
with respect to canoeing and crafts should 
take note of The Great Canadian Canoe Ex¬ 
position being hosted by Harbourfront in 
Toronto this June 12th and 13th. The pro¬ 
gram is a unique blend of a variety of activi¬ 
ties designed to expand public awareness, 
interest in, and knowledge with respect to 
canoeing in Canada. 

Many of the activities are unique to this 
show. For example, there will be craftsmen 
building wood and canvas canoes, birch- 
bark canoes, carving paddles, working on 
stripper canoes, and laying fibreglass and 
kevlar. Everything from bending stem bands 
to stretching canvas will take place in full 
view of spectators. All the builders welcome 
questions and the free exchange of ideas 
and techniques. 

Canoe Ontario’s Paddlecade Program will 
be demonstrating canoe techniques in the 
pool, and wheelchair kayakers will be show¬ 
ing off with Eskimo rolls. Films and speakers 
are scheduled throughout the weekend. For 
example: Tom Linklater of the Ministry of 
Natural Resources will be demonstrating 
the most efficient way to pack a pack; Omar 
Stringer will be displaying his unique canoe¬ 
ing technique; Jamie Benedickson will be 
discussing the historical evolution of the 
canoe; Bill Mason’s films will be shown in 
the theatre. 

A number of exhibits from the Kanawa In¬ 
ternational Canoe Museum will be brought 
to Harbourfront for the weekend, and a 
group from “Ste. Marie Among the Hurons (a 
reconstructed 16th century Jesuit mission) 
will build an historical display on the site. 
Canoe manufacturers will be exhibiting a 
wide range of canoes, and representatives 
from several retail stores will be demonstra¬ 
ting the use of canoe and canoe related 
camping accessories. 

A highlight of this year’s show will be an 
exhibit of photographic art designed to 
visually portray Canadian Canoe Country. 
As well, there will be a Voyageur Rendez¬ 
vous of North Canoes, complete with tum¬ 
plining races, pipelighting contests, and 
tug-of-war exhibitions. 

For camp directors, canoeing instructors, 
and counsellors, this show is a great place 
to pick up ideas and meet some people who 
have very unique skills. The show is free, so 
be sure to take note of the date, June 12th 
and 13th at Harbourfront, 235 Queen’s Quay 
West in Toronto. For further information 
contact The Great Canadian Canoe Exposi¬ 
tion at (416) 424-6787. • 


NATIONAL PHOTO CONTEST! 

Look for information in the next issue - 
Summer ’82 


7 


Why Get III From Foods? 


You probably know somebody, perhaps a 
whole family, who has suffered from dis¬ 
tressing attacks of nausea, vomiting, diar¬ 
rhea, stomach pains. If not, perhaps you 
have read newspaper reports of such mis¬ 
erable experiences coming as a sequel to a 
wedding breakfast, a picnic or a church sup¬ 
per. Or you may have heard of deaths due to 
a rare form of food poisoning known as 
“botulism.” 

Outbreaks of illness of this kind are 
nearly always recognized as food poisoning 
caused by certain bacteria. 

How bacteria cause food poisoning 
Many kinds of bacteria can grow in foods if 
the foods are kept warm enough and con¬ 
tain enough moisture. Only a few can cause 
illness. They do this in one of two ways: (1) 
When food is eaten after bacteria have had a 
chance to multiply in it, a sufficient number 
of them may be present to overcome our 
“natural defences.” The bacteria invade the 
tissues lining the stomach and intestines. 
This causes inflammation which leads to 
abdominal pains, vomiting, diarrhea, per¬ 
haps fever. The enteric-fever group of bac¬ 
teria behave in this way. The best-known 
ones in this country are the Salmonellae. 
(2) Other bacteria may produce poisonous 
substances called “toxins” as they grow 
in foods. Being tasteless, the toxins cannot 
be detected when eaten. The toxin formed 
by the Staphylococcus bacteria causes 
nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, prostration. It 
can develop in many different kinds of 
foods. 

The bacteria responsible for botulism pro¬ 
duce a toxin that causes a form of paralysis 
which may lead to death. Fortunately, this 
has been a rare disease. The botulism bac¬ 
teria grow best in foods from which air is ex¬ 
cluded. Most cases of botulism result from 
the toxin that forms in improperly processed 
home-canned foods. There are a few cases 
on record of deaths from botulism resulting 
from improper processing of commercially 
prepared foods, but in general no safer food 
can be found than those which have been 
canned commercially. A few other bacteria 
can produce toxins but they are of less im¬ 
portance than the two already named. 

What must happen before a food can cause 
bacterial food poisoning? 


Before a food can cause food poisoning of 
bacterial origin, these things must have hap¬ 
pened: 

1 The food must have become contamina¬ 
ted by the right kinds of bacteria. The 
usual avenues of contamination are: the 
use of unpasteurized milk or dairy pro¬ 
ducts when preparing other foods (Staphy¬ 
lococci often are present in the cow’s ud¬ 
der and survive in unpasteurized milk pro¬ 
ducts); the use of uninspected meat from 
diseased animals; preparation of foods in 
unsanitary factories or in a dirty kitchen; 
handling with unwashed hands or by peo¬ 
ple suffering from infected cuts or “boils”, 
bad coughs, diarrhea; exposure to flies, 
rats, mice or other vermin, or to dust. 

2 After contamination, the bacteria must 
have had a chance to multiply and the tox¬ 
in producers must have had time to pro¬ 
duce toxin. 

3 Dangerous bacteria only grow and pro¬ 
duce toxin if: 

(a) the food is a suitable kind and is moist 
enough; 

(b) the food is kept at temperatures higher 
than 40° Fahrenheit; 

(c) the food remains at temperatures 
warmer than 40® F for four hours or 
more. 

How to keep foods free from the risk of 
bacterial food poisoning? 

To keep foods safe from the threat of bac¬ 
terial food poisoning they must be given pro¬ 
per care from production source to the table. 
This involves the producer, the factory, the 
distributor, the retail store, and most of all - 
you in the camp kitchen. 

The officers of the Food and Drug Director¬ 
ate of the Department of National Health and 
Welfare, in collaboration with other Govern¬ 
ment agencies, food producers, manufac¬ 
turers and retailers, continuously try to 
assure that Canada’s foods as offered for 
sale are safe and wholesome. But the con¬ 
sumer must do his part from there on. 

If the camp cook attends to the simple 
rules listed below she will do much to reduce 
the risk of food poisoning. 

1 When thawing foods - always cover - if 
possible thaw 24 hours in refrigerator. 

2 Buy from reputable dealers: Patronize only 
clean stores. 


3 Ask for meat that bears an official stamp 
of Government Approval. 

4 Remember that vacuum-packaged meat is 
perishable and must be kept refrigerated. 

5 Do not buy foods supposed to be frozen 
but which are thawed. 

6 After marketing, place frozen foods in the 
freezer compartment of your refrigerator 
or in a deep-freeze unit until ready for use. 

7 Do not allow foods to go through a “thaw- 
freeze-thaw” sequence. 

8 Heat pre-cooked frozen foods, like meat 
pies, meat patties, all portioned control 
meats etc., also stuffed poultry, at a high 
enough temperature (350°) not to just 
warm up. 

9 After preparing foods containing eggs, 
meat, milk, gravy, salads with dressing: 
serve them within two hours or else refri¬ 
gerate. 

10 Refrigerate “left-overs" from prepared 
dishes within an hour and keep refriger¬ 
ated until re-serving or re-heating. 

11 Do not prepare sandwiches or “picnic” 
dishes, buffet luncheons, etc., more than 
four hours before they will be eaten unless 
you refrigerate the foods. 

12 Avoid making up sandwiches if you have 
infected cuts or a bad cough. 

13 If canning foods: (a) Always follow profes¬ 
sional directions carefully; (b) Never can 
non-acid foods such as meat, fish, meat- 
vegetable mixtures, soups, or non-acid 
vegetables like beans, peas, asparagus, 
corn, etc., unless a pressure-cooker, pro¬ 
perly attended, is used. 

14 Do not eat foods tht have an "off” flavour 
or “off” colour. 

15 Keep everything about your kitchen clean. 

16 If you or anyone in your camp think you 
have suffered food poisoning, report it im¬ 
mediately to a local health agency. Call a 
doctor if the illness is severe. 

Proper refrigeration of perishable foods 
(other than fresh fruit and vegetables) is the 
most important way to avoid food poisoning. 
At camps we can help reduce food poisoning 
a great deal by attending to this. 

Remember, cooking of foods gives no 
guarantee of safety! Cooking temperatures 
will kill most bacteria, but the staphylococ¬ 
cus toxins will not be destroyed. You must 
prevent the bacteria from having opportunity 
to produce their poisons in food. • 



8 









Attention Brogram Directors! 

Here’s a wonderful summer activity idea for kids... 


OWL, the Canadian magazine for children, has 
announced an Airplane building contest for children 
1 3 years of age or younger as of August 16, 1982. The 
contest is divided into two categories and children can 
enter their planes in either one or both of them. 
Category 1 is "paper” Airplanes, and category II is 
"Anything goes” Airplanes. Children are allowed help 
with their designs but must build their plane(s) 
themselves. All entries must be postmarked before 
August 16, 1982. 


Ten winners will be chosen from across Canada to 
take part in a weekend of flying fun in Toronto in 
September 1982. 

This is an ideal summer program activity for kids 
who love to fly! To help the kids you know take part, 
look for complete information in the March 1982 
issue of OWL Magazine on your newsstand or at your 
library. 

Or send $ 1.25 to OWL Magazine 

59 Front Street East, Toronto, M5E 1B3. 







GROUP DYNAMICS 




Lost fit Sea 


EXERCISE 


The following exercise is a good one 
because it can be used effectively with 
campers as young as 8 and 9 years, as well 
as older campers, CIT’s and Counsellors. 

Firstly, hand out the Lost At Sea Individ¬ 
ual Worksheet and read out the instructions. 
Allow everyone about 5 minutes to INDIVID¬ 
UALLY complete the exercise by rank order¬ 
ing the 15 items. 

The next step is the placement of individ¬ 
uals into groups; groups of four five or six 
are ideal. Give each group an unused sheet 
- the Lost At Sea Individual Worksheet; the 
challenge now, through group consensus, is 
to pool each individual’s results and rank 
order the 15 items AS A GROUP! This part of 
the exercise can take anywhere from 30 
minutes to two hours. Conflict and argu¬ 
ments are important - individuals should 
not ‘gang up’ on others to sway opinion; 
there should not be voting or majority rules. 
Consensus is defined as “a general feeling 
of agreement”; each item should be ‘talked 
out’ until everyone feels comfortable with it. 
This is the most important process of the ex¬ 
ercise; the leader should ‘float’ from group 
to group to offer alternative suggestions 
and assistance with conflict (eg. if a group is 
bogged down with number 4, suggest that 
they shift to number 15 and work up). 

Once the groups have completed this por¬ 
tion of the exercise, the leader can now read 
out the ‘‘correct” answers, numbers one 
through fifteen, as determined by the U.S. 
Merchant Marines. Since there are “correct” 
answers, each group can mark the group 
score. This is done by putting the correct 
rank order in the margin beside each item; 
upon completion of all 15 items, add up the 
differences between the group’s answers 
and the “correct” answers. As in golf, the 
lower the score or difference, the better. 
(There are rationales or explanations for all 
15 items, as you can see from the Lost At 
Sea Answer and Rationale Sheet.) 

Two principles of group consensus are: 

1) The group score should always be better 

than each individual score 

2) Conflict is a necessary ingredient toward 

creativity. 

After you have completed this exercise, it 
may be useful to discuss why one group did 
well and one did not. Who took over as the 
leader of the group? Was everyone allowed 
to speak equally? If not, why not? Did the 
consensus procedure work? 

The importance here is that the par¬ 
ticipants should be learning more about 
communicating - about listening to others, 
defending points of view, resolving conflict 
and differences of opinion, understanding 
leadership and leadership qualities and, 
most of all, beginning to understand a little 
more about how we function in groups. 


LOST AT SEA INDIVIDUAL WORKSHEET 

Instructions: You are adrift on a private 
yacht in the South Pacific. As a conse¬ 
quence of a fire of unknown origin, much of 
the yacht and its contents have been de¬ 
stroyed. The yacht is now slowly sinking. 
Your location is unclear because of the 
destruction of critical navigational equip¬ 
ment and because you and the crew were 
distracted trying to bring the fire under con¬ 
trol. Your best estimate is what you are 
approximately one thousand miles south- 
southwest of the nearest land. 

Below is a list of fifteen items that are in¬ 
tact and undamaged after the fire. In addi¬ 
tion to these articles, you have a service¬ 
able, rubber life raft with oars large enough 
to carry yourself, the crew, and all the items 
listed below. The total contents of all sur¬ 
vivors’ pockets are a package of cigarettes, 
several books of matches, and five one- 
dollar bills. 

Your task is to rank the fifteen items 
below in terms of their importance to your 
survival. Place the number 1 by the most im¬ 
portant item, the number 2 by the second 
most important, and so on through number 
15 the least important. 


Photo Courtesy Kilcoo Camp 


Sextant 

Shaving mirror 

Five-gallon can of water 

Mosquito netting 

One case of U.S. Army C rations 

Maps of the Pacific Ocean 

Seat cushion (flotation device 

approved by the Coast Guard) 

Two-gallon can of oil-gas mixture 

Small transistor radio 

Shark repellent 

Twenty square feet of opaque plastic 
One quart of 160-proof Puerto Rican 
rum 

Fifteen feet of nylon rope 
Two boxes of chocolate bars 
Fishing kit 



10 


LOST AT SEA 

ANSWER AND RATIONALE SHEET 

According to the “experts,” the basic sup¬ 
plies needed when a person is stranded in 
mid ocean are articles to attract attention 
and articles to aid survival until rescuers 
arrive. Articles for navigation are of little im¬ 
portance; Even if a small life raft were 
capable of reaching land, it would be im¬ 
possible to store enough food and water to 
subsist during that period of time. There¬ 
fore, of primary importance are the shaving 
mirror and the two-gallon can of oil-gas mix¬ 
ture. These items could be used for signal¬ 
ing air-sea rescue. Of secondary impor¬ 
tance are items such as water and food, 
e.g., the case of Army C rations. 

A brief rationale is provided tor the rank¬ 
ing of each item. These brief explanations 
obviously do not represent all of the poten¬ 
tial users for the specified items but, rather, 
the primary importance of each. 

1- Shaving mirror 

Critical for signaling air-sea rescue. 

2- Two-gallon can of oil-gas mixture 
Critical for signaling - the oil-gas mix¬ 
ture will float on the water and could be 
ignited with a dollar bill and a match 
(obviously, outside the raft). 


3- Five-gallon can of water 

Necessary to replenish loss by perspir¬ 
ing, etc. 

4- One case of U.S. Army C rations 
Provides basic food intake. 

5- Twenty square feet of opaque plastic 
Utilized to collect rain water, provide 
shelter from the elements. 

6- Two boxes of chocolate bars 
A reserve food supply. 

7- Fishing kit 

Ranked lower than the candy bars 
because “one bird in the hand is worth 
two in the bush.” There is no assurance 
that you will catch any fish. 

8- Fifteen feet of nylon rope 

May be used to lash equipment together 
to prevent it from falling overboard. 

9- Floating seat cushion 

If someone fell overboard, it could func¬ 
tion as a life preserver. 

10-Shark repellent 
Obvious. 


11- One qt. of 160-proof Puerto Rican rum 

Contains 80 percent alcohol - enough 
to use as a potential antiseptic for any 
injuries incurred; of little value other¬ 
wise; will cause dehydration if ingested. 

12- Small transistor radio 

Of little value since there is no transmit¬ 
ter (unfortunately, you are out of range 
of your favorite AM radio stations). 

13- Maps of the Pacific Ocean 
Worthless without additional naviga¬ 
tional equipment - it does not really 
matter where you are but where the 
rescuers are. 

14- Mosquito netting 

There are no mosquitoes in the mid 
Pacific. 

15- Sextant 

Without tables and a chronometer, rela¬ 
tively useless. 

The basic rationale for ranking signaling 
devices above life-sustaining items (food 
and water) is that without signaling devices 
there is almost no chance of being spotted 
and rescued. Furthermore, most rescues 
occur during the first thirty-six hours, and 
one can survive without food and water dur¬ 
ing this period. • 


Blackflies! 

By: J.H. Ebbs, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

A report in the Medical Post (February 1980) 
adds to the knowledge about reactions to 
bites from this insect. It causes much irrita¬ 
tion during spring and early summer in some 
camping regions. It breds in shallow running 
water. 

There are 76 known species in Canada 
and the U.S.A. Some types feed only on 
humans, some on animals and some on 
birds. They can carry diseases to animals 
and birds. They are attracted to humans by 
the carbon dioxide and water vapour in the 
breath. 

They bite at partially covered areas - the 
wrists, ankles, neck, scalp and waist. 

When the fly bites it deposits a small 
amount of fluid into the skin which acts as 
an anaesthetic and also keeps the blood 
from clogging while being sucked by the 
insect. 

There are 4 known human types which 
cause skin reactions and sometimes gener¬ 
al reactions in the body. Victims who have 
severe reactions should report to a doctor 
as soon as possible for treatment and later 
be desensitized. 

Prevention of bites is effective if the fol¬ 
lowing are done in the blackfly season when 
going into infested areas: 

1. Cover as much of the skin as possible. 

2. Wear light-coloured clothes with tight 

neck, wrists and ankles. 

3. Use a proven insect repellent and apply it 

frequently. • 



11 


Photo Courtesy Glen Bernard Camp 




SAFETY EQUIPMENT 

from 

The Royal Life Saving Society Canada 


PADDLEBOARD 

This moulded fibreglass styrofoam filled board is a proven design utilized for rescue world-wide. The 
plastic covered piping provides hand grips along the length of the board. The tapered keel gives 
manoeuverability and stability. Textured upper surface maximizes control by rescuers. This eleven- 
foot, bright safety yellow Paddlcboard is fast, efficient and a must at any open water area. Ideal for 
rescue, teaching and play. 



RESCUE CANS 

These Rescue Cans were designed by professional 
lifeguards working year-round on the coast of 
California. Rescue Cans are employed in over 
30,000 rescues per year in North America. 

This ideal towing aid of polyethylene has: 
moulded hand grips, attached towing line and 
shoulder loop. The can requires no maintenance 
and is soft enough to be safe in all situations. 
Colour: brilliant orange. Two sizes: 26" long (suf¬ 
ficient flotation for pool rescues and most water¬ 
front situations) and 34" long (for surf beaches). 


PFD -WINDSAIL VEST 

Federal Government regulations require an approved PFD or life jacket be worn by board sailors. This 
PFD is made of flexible Supersoft Buoyancy Foam with extra deep arm, neck and waist cutouts for 
complete freedom of movement, finished with strong non-chafing vinyl piping. 

Includes a unique self-supporting harness assembly with adjustable stainless steel hook tested to 
1,000 lbs psi break strength. Strong 2" webbing with SR-2 buckle/adjusters. Non-corrosive vision 
zipper. Colour: gold and red, with a bright blue lining. Available in sizes S, M and L. Department of 
Transport, Canada Approved PFD. 


FIRST AID KITS 

Every pool and beach is required to have a suitable 
first aid kit. The RLSSC kit is designed by life¬ 
guards who have had an opportunity to deal with 
many real emergencies. 

Comes in metal or plastic water-resistant con¬ 
tainer. Contents include: St. John Ambulance First 
Aid Manual, safety pins, bandaids, gauze pads (3x3), 
gauze rolls, triangular bandages, pressure dressings, 
roll of flannel bandage, adhesive tape (2 sizes), 
tensor bandage, scissors, tweezers, tongue depress¬ 
ors, cotton swabs, antiseptic spray. Refills also 
available. 



AUDIOPACK 

A new portable PA system that projects your voice in full circle, loud and clear up to a block away. 
Audiopack gives hands-free camp communication. At 6/2 pounds, you’ll find it lightweight and com¬ 
fortable to wear. Equipped with a quick fastening Velcro belt and fully adjustable shoulder harness. 
The Audiopack operates in all kinds of weather. Full system includes: amplifier unit, microphone, 
rechargeable 24-volt Nickel Cadmium battery pack, velcro waist belt, shoulder harness, battery 
charger and zippered vinyl carrying case. 





For further information and a free catalogue with the full line of Safety Equipment offered by 
The RLSSC, please call (416) 966-5126 or write The Royal Life Saving Society Canada, 
64 Charles Street East, Toronto, Ontario M4Y 1T1. 









international camping congress 
congres international des camps 

TORONTO, CANADA JANUARY 26-29 JANVIER 19B3 


We’re moving! Yes, plans and support for the first International 
Camping Congress are moving along at a very encouraging and 
exciting pace. 

Sir Edmund Hillary will be addressing delegates at the open¬ 
ing session on January 26, and Dr. Leo Buscalgia, one of Ameri¬ 
ca’s most inspiring speakers will address the Closing Banquet on 
January 29. 

Frankly, your programme committee is somewhat surprised at 
the number of people who have already indicated they will be 
speakers and session leaders. These include: Bruce Werber from 
the Colorado Outdoor Education Center for the Handicapped; 
Barbara Hertell, Youth Programmes Alberta Forest Service; 
Bryce Taylor, one of Canada’s most significant authorities on In¬ 
dian Lore and Culture; Dr. Hedley Dimock, Steve Van Matre; Dr. 
Betty van der Smissen (President of the American Camping 
Association); Chuck Kujawa (Incoming President, American 
Camping Association); Nelson Weiters; Ron Johnstone; Barry 
Lowes; Bruno Morawetz; Brian Law; Kirk Wipper; Ken Low; Bill 
Mason; & Richard Underwood (N.A.S.A.) 

Two speakers from outside of North America have also com¬ 
mitted themselves - one from Tokyo and another from New Delhi, 
India. 

And there are so many more from whom we have yet to hear. 

As far as support is concerned, the fund-raising committee will 
soon be writing to every member of C.C.A. for a request for finan¬ 
cial help - help which will be used to assist delegates from out¬ 
side North America to attend our Congress. The Department of 
External Affairs, Ottawa, have just sent information to 32 differ¬ 
ent Countries throughout the world, seeking their participation. 

The Society of Camp Directors have donated $1,500.00. In addi¬ 
tion, each member of the Society is also being asked to match 
that grant by donating $19.83 (1983). The Protocol Office of the 
Ontario Government has given us a grant, and the Nova Scotia 
Camping Association has also sent a cheque for the committee 
to use as it sees fit. 

The Estate of Flora Morrison has donated a sizeable amount in 
memory of one of Ontario’s camping leaders, and the Camp Ser¬ 
vices Co-Op has donated $2,000.00. 

So we are on our way! Manitoba has indicated they hope to 
have 60-75 delegates, and in Saskatchewan, they are even talking 
about chartering their own buses to get to Toronto. 

The Congress Committee will have representatives at the 
American Camping Association Convention in New York, where 
we will have a booth to tell everyone about our exciting plans. 
Word is getting around - and we hope everyone in C.C.A. will help 
to spread the message. 



i® 


for our first 
international 
camping congress 


Share your camping skills and experience 
with international colleagues in an exciting 
international setting * January 26 to 29, 
1983 , at the Sheraton Centre, Toronto 
Full registration fee only S160 ($125 if 
you book before Dec.20, 1982) • 

For full details, contact 



CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 
Suite 2, 1806 Avenue Road. Toronto, 

Ontario M5M 3Z1 Telephone (416) 781 -4717 



Bienvenu & Toronto i 

pour notre premier congr&s international des camps 

Partagez vos connaissances et votre experience avec des collfcgues 
intemationaux dans une ambiance excitante et internationale - du 
26 au 29 janvier 1983 au Centre Sheraton de Toronto. Frais dMnscrip - 
tion seulement $160.00 ($125.00 si vous vous inscrivez avant le 20 
d£cembre 1982). Pour de plus amples renseignements, contactez: 


L’Association des Camps du Canada 

Suite 2, 1806 Avenue Rd., Toronto, Ont. M5M 3Z1 

Telephone (416) 781-4717 

“ENSEMBLE ON EST PLUS FORT ” 


Canadian camping association 


association des camps du Canada 


SUITE 2. 1806 AVENUE ROAD • TORONTO. ONTARIO M5M 3Z1 • TELEPHONE: (416) 781-4717 


13 





Menu Feature 


PIZZA 

Crust - T Bisk 

(5 lbs. makes 3 pans of crust, 15 x 21) 

Note: Roll enough dough for V 2 pan, then 
another V 2 and press together. 

A10 02 . can of pizza sauce covers 4 pans 

Sprinkle on top - cut up weiners, grated 
parmesan cheese, grated mozerella cheese, 
pineapple, green peppers, onions. 

LEMON SQUARES 

(serves 100) 

16 cups graham wafers 
2 cups margarine 
2 cups brown sugar 

Mix together and divide into 2 pans (15 x 20) 
Bake at 325° for 8-10 minutes 

Pour V 2 of the following mixture into 
each pan: 

10 cups lemon mix eg. E.D. Smith pudding 
and pie 

5 cups cold water 
20 cups hot water 
8 eggs 

5 tablespoons margarine 

From Cathy Russell, Circle R Ranch, 
Delaware, Ontario. 


BEEF SAURBRAETEN 

(for 120 people) 

30 beef cut in strips 
15 tbsp. Margarine 

2 cups brown gravy mix (plus 2 cups flour) 
30 cups water 

1 cup instant onion flakes 

2 cups white vinegar 
2 cups brown sugar 

7 tsp. salt 

4 tsp. pepper 
7 tsp. ginger 

15 tsp. Worchestershire Sauce 
1 bay leaf 

Brown meat, remove from pan ... add gravy 
mix, flour and water and bring to a boil... 
stir constantly., .add remaining ingredients 
and meat... cover and simmer for 1 V 2 hrs. 
Serve with noodles. 

MINCEMEAT BARS 

(makes one 15 x 24 pan - 48 squares) 

2 cups margarine 
4 cups brown sugar 

8 eggs 

4 tsp. vanilla 
6 cups flour 
2 tsp. baking powder 
2 tsp. salt 
1 tsp. baking soda 
4 cups mincemeat 

Optional... sprinkle top with icing sugar. 

From Jean West and Lois Steed, 

Camp Tawingo, Huntsville, Ontario. 


Canadian Camping Association 


National Office/Sifege Sociale 

Ontario Camping Association 

1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, 

1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, 

Toronto, Ont M5M 3Z1 

Toronto, Ont. M5M 3Z1 

Phone: (416) 781-4717 

Phone: (416) 781-0525 

I British Columbia Camping Association Association de$ Camps du Quebec 1 

1200 Hornby St 

1415 est rue Jarry, 

Vancouver B.C. V6Z1Z2 

Montreal, Qu6. H2E 2Z7 

Phone: (604) 879-5108 

Phone: (514) 374-4700 ex 447 

Alberta Camping Association 

New Brunswick Camping Association 

c/o Y.M.C.A. 332 6th Ava. 3.W., 

P.O. Box 263 

Calgary, Alta. T2P 0R5 

Moncton, New Brunswick BIG 8K9 

Phone: (403) 269-6156 

506-854-3333 #269 (Ian Fowfer) 

Saskatchewan Camping Association 

Nova Scotia Camping Association 

c/o Saskatoon Y.M.CiiA; 

Box 3243 S. 

25-22 St. East 

Halifax, N.S. B3J 3H5 

Saskatoon. Sask. S7K 0C7 

Phone:(902)424-4329 

Phone: (306) 652-7515 ex SCA 


Manitoba Camping Association 

Newfoundland and Labrador Camping 

Admin. Centre for Recreation and Sport 

Association 

1700 Ellice Ave. 

BOX 4188 

Winnipeg, Man. R3H 0B1 

St. John's, Nfld. A1C 5Z7 

Phone: (204) 786-5641 




14 




Dispose of camp food 
service problems with 

royal Chi net 

disposable plates and bowls 

Strong, attractive Royal CHINET food service products help you ... 

• DISPOSE OF DISHWASHING COSTS 

Cut the expense of installing, maintaining and manning equipment 
that is used only a few months of the year. 

• DISPOSE OF BREAKAGE 

Save yourself the trouble and expense of buying matching replace¬ 
ments for pieces that crack, chip and shatter. 

• DISPOSE OF FOOD WASTE 

You get exact portion control with Royal CHINET’s wide range of 
sizes in regular and compartmented designs. 

• DISPOSE OF GERM COLLECTORS 

Royal CHINET products are sterilized when manufactured and 
packaged. And there’s never a germ-collecting chip, crack or 
poorly washed dish. 

• DISPOSE OF IRRITATING NOISE 

Disposable service is silent service. Meals are relaxed without the 
clatter and crash of china or metal. 

ENVIRONMENTAL ADVANTAGES, TOO 

All good campers want to protect the environment. Royal CHINET prod¬ 
ucts are manufactured from a renewable resource. What’s more, they’re 
biodegradable ... molded of natural wood fibres that burn readily with 
little smoke. Even if discarded out-of-doors, Royal CHINET quickly de¬ 
composes in the earth. 

Get the full particulars now. Mail this coupon today. 


CANADIAN KEYES FIBRE COMPANY LTD 
HANTSPORT, NOVA SCOTIA 

Please provide me with details of the variety and costs of Royal 
CHINET food service products. 

NAME- 

COMPANY or CAMP - 

ADDRESS ___ / 









Canadian camping association 
association des camps du Canada 



SUITE 2. 1806 AVENUE ROAD 
TORONTO. ONTARIO M5M 3Z1 

VOL 34, NO. 1 
SPRING 1982 
ISSN 008-3119 


SUPPORT AMATEUR 
SPORT 

Encouragez le sport 

AMATEUR 



17 85 


CAMP RICHlLUACA 
MR. 8. MRS. W. J. 
KETTLE8Y UN 
LOG 1J0 


BA8C0CK 



fin Important Message to (ill Members 


% 


In January 1983, the Canadian Camping Association, in co-operation with the Ontario Camping Association, will sponsor the First In¬ 
ternational Camping Congress. This will be held at Toronto’s Sheraton Centre. 

This will be a significant event, for it will be the first time that Camp Directors and Youth Leaders from around the World will be in¬ 
vited to gather together to share their knowledge and experience in organized camping. We will have the opportunity to meet and hear 
speakers of International renown. As well, as hope that delegates from all across Canada and the United States will be meeting with 
representatives from many European and Asian Countries as well as Africa, Australia, South America and Japan. 

Although we expect a record registration, additional funds will be required to cover the tremendous costs of bringing well known 
resource speakers to Toronto. In addition to this, many delegates might need some financial assistance to make the journey to 
Canada, as their agencies or sponsors operate on minimal budgets. 

We have therefore launched a fund-raising drive to cover these additional costs. We hope to receive substantial donations from 
several large foundations, as well as Industry and Government. 

However in good faith, we are also hoping to raise a significant sum from within our own membership. We are asking for your sup¬ 
port, not only as a delegate, but also in the form of a small financial contribution. If every member made a donation, we would be able 
to assist many delegates from outside of North America to attend our Congress - thereby enhancing the quality and prestige of this 
unique meeting. Truly, this could become a Congress of International value. 

Every member who makes a donation... whether it be $5.00, $20.00 or even $100.00 will be acknowledged in our printed programme 
material. It is hoped that we may proudly exhibit a very long list of donors! 

Will you help? This can be done by detaching the form below, completing it, and sending it to us along with your cheque. 


AI Goodman, Chairman, Fund-Raising Committee 


Donor’s Name and Address 


Camp Represented_Provincial Association __ 

Name you wish to be acknowledged __ 

Please make cheques payable to International Camping Congress, 1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, Toronto, M5M 3Z1. 













