



LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


I just received a copy of the CCA/ACC Special 
Edition Bulletin for International Youth Year. I 
really enjoyed this issue - the layout and format 
are clear and easy to read. In addition, the 
choice of articles was varied yet still comple¬ 
menting one another and the International Youth 
Year theme. 

Karen O'Neill 

Consultant, Fitness Canada 

I was on the Board and Executive at the time 
discussions centred around what the Canadian 
Camping Magazine could do for the Association 
in its present financial crisis ... resultant upon 
Fitness Canada’s thinking that camping is not 
within their jurisdiction. I have just re-read your 
editorial on Fitness and it would be very interest¬ 
ing to present personally this editorial to Michel 
Bedard and ask for follow-up comments. As I 
have always found to be the case, you go right to 
the soul of the matter and quote supporting and 
some contrary opinion as well. The real chal¬ 
lenge we face is to persuade Fitness Canada 
that fitness is indeed as you described it and not 
limited by their narrow concept. Camps have 
tremendous potential with regard to over-all 
fitness - far more impact than schools, health 
clubs and many homes. 

In another more controversial editorial you 
examined a sacred cow which, in my opinion, is 
most in need of examination - namely, the 
Church. 

Ken Willis, Magog, Quebec 


I was really impressed with the International 
Youth Year issue of Canadian Camping; I think 
the articles, the content and the layout are 
nothing short of superb! We have a lot to be 
proud of in this association and I hope you keep 
exposing talented writers with something to say. 

Katie Elmer, Scarborough, Ontario 

ED: Thanks certainly go out to Hugh Philips and 
Sylvia Hanes and all of the people who worked 
on that special edition. We’re proud of it too - 
thanks for writing! 


I want to thank many persons across Canada for 
the contributions you’ve made to my life and 
work in Canada the past 10 years. I find it hard to 
leave close friendships. 

I also want to encourage everyone to strive 
toward excellence in their camping career and 
endeavours. Camping personnel need each 
other as sources of encouragement and leader¬ 
ship development. We can learn so much from 
each other. Hopefully your Provincial Camping 
Association and the CCA can do as much for 
you as it has done for me in Manitoba. 

I regret leaving a good working environment 
behind, but I needed to be realistic about my 
career goals and objectives. Unfortunately, the 
Conference of Mennonites in Manitoba do not 
have a very high profile of camping as a profes¬ 
sion. Therefore, I’ll be leaving Manitoba to 
accept the Executive Director’s position at the 
Lakewood Retreat Centre in Florida. My new 
address effective August 1,1985 will be: Terry 
Burkhalter, Lakewood Retreat Centre, 25458 
Dan Brown Hill Road, Brooksville, Florida 33512. 
(904) 796-4097. 

Ya’ll come and see me if you’re ever in Florida, 
ya’hear. Brooksville is located just north of 
Tampa, 35 miles, and an hour’s drive west of 
Disney World. 

Terry Burkhalter 

Executive Director for “Camps with Meaning” 
Winnipeg, Manitoba 


CONTENTS 


Summer 1985 



Vol. 37, No. 2 

5 The President’s Message 
by Janet Adamson 

11 

The Challenge of Camping 
by Gail McClintock 


6 Un message de la Presidente 
par Janet Adamson 

-__ 12 

The Kid Who Doesn’t Speak English 
by Madelene Allen 


7 The Camping Advisor 
by Jay Haddad 

15 

L’enfant qui ne parle pas anglais 
par Madelene Allen 


8 Camp ... A Retrospective 
by Barry Lowes 

19 

Camping ...The Last Word 
by Jay Haddad 



Cover Photo: Nicholas Joseph Layout Assistant: Marjorie Booth 


This Association gratefully acknowledges 
the financial support of 


■ Government of Canada 

■ Fitness and Amateur Sc 


Gouvernement du Canada 
Condition physique et Sport amateur 


2 


EDITORIAL 

Here's to You(th)!! 

In this International Youth Year, we dedicated our Spring ’85 
edition of Canadian Camping to this special year. However, we 
should be ever mindful that every year MUST be a celebration 
of the contributions of youth lest we believe this is a one-shot 
deal where we look for extraordinary achievements, exalt 
them and then we go on to something else the nest year! 

LET'S CELEBRATE THE ORDINARY!! 

Here’s to the thousands of you(th) who babysit every day 
and every night for a pittance; you are conscientious and 
responsible and you babysit primarily because you enjoy 
children. You cannot be paid what you’re worth but every 
parent appreciates your commitment, dedication and avail¬ 
ability. You are entrusted with the care of another human being 
and that is a magnificent responsibility- what you are learning 
as you play with the kids, read them stories, put them to bed 
and sit yourself reading, studying or watching television is an 
invaluable lesson which will help you all the years of your life! 

To all of you adolescents who don’t use drugs and have no 
desire to use drugs, here’s to you(th)! We read stories everyday 
about young people who DO get involved with drugs and how 
their social and academic development is disrupted. This is 
certainly true, but it’s true for a very small minority of the 
adolescent population. The vast majority of you(th) are sensi¬ 
ble, sensitive and responsible! 

To the thousands of you who do volunteer work, here’s to 
you(th)! Many of you serve as altar boys and girls in church or 
sing in the choir or assist with a Brownie or Guide or Cub or 
Scout Pack - what exciting opportunities you take advantage 
of but far more than that, your contribution is vital, necessary 
and appreciated! Thousands of you goon walk-a-thons, bike- 
a-thonsand canvass door to door to raise money for charities, 
impoverished nations, medical research, hospital facilities 
and important foundations. The Steve Fonyo’s and Terry Fox’s 
of this country are simply the more visible examples of the 
energy and aspirations of youth, but the numbers of you who 
are committed to worthwhile endeavours are legion! 

To those of you who grow and socialize at school through 
camera clubs, chess clubs, yearbook committees or student 
life associations, here’s to you(th)! You have already learned a 
lesson in life that many people will never learn; namely, that 
learning can be an end in itself! The motivation and desire to 
join and be a part of a club or group may carry no extrinsic 
payoff but rather intrinsic enjoyment of doing an activity and 
being with people as its own reward. Your dedication and 
involvement is commendable! 


To the thousands upon thousands of young people who 
make summer camping their passion, here’s to you(th)! Your 
excellent leadership is needed to carry the responsibility of 
encouraging future generations to share a love for people and 
the environment through the unique camping experience. 
Many of you who are senior campers, leaders-in-training and 
young counsellors take on enormous responsibilities in 
caring for and guiding others but you do it because you 
believe so strongly in what you are doing. The camping 
movement could not exist without your support! Whether you 
are 14 years or 17 years or 21 years you know water safety 
rules, canoe tripping rules, fire safety rules and on and on; 
camp is the vehicle which brings everyone together but you 
are the drivers! Your ability to guide and steer and counsel 
young children through your love, caring and affection is 
something to behold! You are the unheralded reason why a 
million parents in Canada will send their child or children to 
camp this summer. You embody the qualities of leadership, 
sportsmanship and fair play; you nurture in children a healthy 
sense of fitness and nutrition, a love and respect for our 
majestic natural environment which will be a lifelong gift to 
your campers; you help allow them to learn tolerance, under¬ 
standing and respect for all peoples and all races and that 
there is a right and wrong; mostly, you help make children 
aware of their own responsibilities and of the consequences 
that their actions have on others - responsibility, too, is a 
lifelong gift! You are often on duty 24 hours a day, called upon 
to comfort a child at 2:00 a.m.; you sit on a rock and chat with a 
camper as the mid-day sun beats down on you; you share 
stories with your peers around a campfire well into the 
evening; you sing songs and teach songs and aren't afraid to 
hug or cry or be spontaneous. Many of you do this and much 
more while receiving little or no remuneration for your 
tremendous efforts. However, when you sit alone on a clear 
night all by yourself near the water’s edge with the stars 
dancing like magic above your head and you hear the 
hauntingly gorgeous call of the loon, you know that wonderful 
feeling and you know that you are not alone - to be one with 
nature is to always have company! And you know all your 
efforts are worth it! 

To youth, in this International Year of Youth, we celebrate 
your contributions, we salute you and we thank you!! 


Editorial Policy 

Jay Haddad, Editor 


The ideas expressed in the Editorial are those of 
the Editorial Committee and not necessarily 
those of the Canadian Camping Association/ 
Association des Camps du Canada. The views 
are expressed to provide stimulation and com¬ 
ment. We invite you to respond in “Letters to the 
Editor" to Canadian Camping, 1806 Avenue Rd., 
Suite 2, Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1. 


Canadian Camping is an official publication of the Canadian Camping Association/Association des 
Camps du Canada. Canadian Camping (ISSN 008-3119) is published quarterly. CCA/ACC member¬ 
ship indudes a subscription; non-member subscriptions in Canada $6.00 a year or $15.00 - 3 years. 
Send address changes to CCA/ACC, 1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1. 
Material in Canadian Camping may not be reproduced in any form, without written permission of the 
editor. Copyright 1985Canadian Camping Association/Association des Camps du Canada. 


3 




EDITORIAL 

Aux jeunes, a votre sante" 


En cette Ann§e Internationale de la Jeunesse, vous avons 
dedie notre edition du printemps ’85 de I’Association des 
Camps du Canada k cette ann§e sp6ciale. li ne faudrait pas 
oublier que, meme quand ce n’est pas officiellement I’Annee 
de la Jeunesse, chaque annee DOIT constituer une celebra¬ 
tion de la jeunesse car il serait dommage de confiner a 1985 
les realisations extraordinaires des jeunes et passer, I’annee 
suivante, a autre chose. 

CELEBRATION L’ORDINAIRE!! 

Aux milliersde jeunes qui, chaque jour gardent des enfants 
pour tres peu d’argent; vous etes consciencieux et respon- 
sables et vous gardez des enfants surtout parce que vous les 
aimez. Vous ne pouvez pas recevoir ce que vous meritez 
vraiment mais chaque parent apprecie votre devouement et 
votre disponibilite. On vous confie le soin d’un autre etre 
humain et ceci est une tres grande responsabilite - ce que 
vous apprenez en jouant avec les enfants, en leur lisant des 
histoires, en les mettant au lit et en vous assoyant avec un 
livre, ou en etudiant ou en regardant la tele, est une legon d’un 
prix inestimable qui vous servira tout au long de voutre vie! 

A tous les adolescents qui ne font pas usage de drogues et 
qui n’ont pas le desir de prendre de la drogue, a votre sante! 
Tous les jours, nous lisons des histoires au sujet de jeunes 
qui lies a la drogue et nous voyons comment leurs activites 
sociales et academiques en sont affectees. C’est certaine- 
ment vrai, mais seulement pour une petite minorite de jeunes. 
La majorite des adolescents est raisonnable, sensible et 
responsable. 

Aux milliers d’entre vous qui font du travail benevole, a 
votre sante! Plusieurs d’entre vous sont servantes ou servants 
de messe, chantent dans une chorale ou font partie des 
“Brownie” ou des Guides, des Louvetaux ou des Scouts - 
vous profitez d’occasions exceptionnelles mais plus que ga, 
votre contribution est vitale, necessaire et appreciee! Des 
milliers d’entre vous participent a des marche-o-thons, 
cycle-o-thons et sollicitent de porte a porte pour ramasser 
des fonds pour differents organismes de charite, pour les 
pays sous-developpes, pour la recherche medicale, les 
services hospitaliers et autres institutions. Les Steve Fonyo 
et les Terry Fox de ce pays ne sont que des exemples plus 
visibles de I’energie et des aspirations de la jeunesse, mais 
ceux parmi vous qui sont engages dans de tels efforts 
meritoires sont a feliciter! 

Pour ceux d’entre vous qui grandissent et s’epanouissent k 
I’ecole a travers le club de photographie, le club d’echecs, le 
comite du journal etudiant, ou I’association de la vie etudiante, 
a votre sante! Vous avez deja appris une legon dans la vie que 
plusieurs n’apprendront jamais; a savoir qu’apprendre, est 
une recompense en soi! La motivation etle desir de sejoindre 
a un club ou de faire partie d’un groupe n’apportent aucune 


satisfaction materielle mais plutot la satisfaction personnelle 
d’entreprendre une activite et de communiquer avec des 
gens. Votre devouement et votre engagement sont louables! 

Aux milliers de jeunes qui font du camping leur passion, a 
votre sante! On a besoin de votre direction pour encourages 
les generations futures k partager I’amour des autres et de 
I'environnement a travers I’unique experience du camping. 
Plusieurs d’entre vous sont des campeursexperimentes, des 
entraineurs etde jeunes conseillerset vous prenez d’enormes 
responsabilites en prenant soin des autres et en les guidant 
et vous le faites parce que vous croyez fermement a ce que 
vous faites. Les camps ne pourraient pas exister sans votre 
appui! Que vous ayez 14 ans, 17 ans ou 21 ans, vous 
connaissez les regies de la securite aquatique, les regies des 
excursions en canoe, les regies de securite desfeux, etc.; le 
camp est le vehicule qui rassemble les gens mais vous en 
etes les conducteurs! Votre habilete a guider,a conduire eta 
conseiller les jeunes enfants a travers votre amour, vos soins 
et votre affection est quelque chose d’unique a admirer! Vous 
etes la raison inedite pourquoi des milliers de parents au 
Canada enverront leur enfant ou leurs enfants au camp cet 
ete. Vous incarnez les qualites de direction, d’esprit d’equipe 
et de franc-jeu; vous apprenez aux jeunes I’importance de la 
bonne condition physique et de la bonne nutrition, I’amour et 
le respect pour notre environnement naturel lequel sera, pour 
vos campeurs, un cadeau qui durera toute la vie, vous leur 
permettez d’apprendre la tolerance, la comprehension et le 
respect des gens de toutes races et d'etre conscients du bien 
et du mal; surtout, vous les aidez a prendre conscience de 
leurs responsabilites et des consequences de leurs actions 
sur les autres - la responsabilite aussi, est un cadeau pour la 
vie! Vous etes souvent au poste 24 heures par jour, appeles a 
reconforter un enfant au milieu de la nuit; assis sur un rocher 
avec un campeur, vous parlez pendant que le soleil du midi 
vous inonde; vous racontez des histoires a vos amis autour 
d’un feu de camp tard le soir; vous chantez ou vous leur 
apprenez des chansons et vous n’avez pas peur de prendre 
quelqu’un dans vos bras ou de pleurer ou d’etre spontane. 
Plusieurs d’entre vous font tout ceci et plus encore, en 
recevant peu ou aucune remuneration pour vos efforts. 

Cependant, quand vous etes assis seul sur la plage par 
une belle nuit d’ete, les etoiles dansant au-dessus de votre 
tete et que vous entendez I’appel hantant du huard, vous 
reconnaissez ce sentiment de bien-etre et vous savez que 
vous n’etes pas seul - etre un avec la nature c'est toujours 
avoir de la compagnie! Et vous savez que tous vos efforts en 
valent la peine! 

Aux jeunes, en cette Annee Internationale de la Jeunesse, 
nous celebrons votre contribution, nous vous saluons et 
nous vous remercions!!! 


4 


Mark PaviIons 


THE PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE 


By: Janet Adamson 

I write this message as the new president of 
CCA, having taken office in April 1985 in Regina 
at the CCA Annual Meeting. Many people upon 
hearing of this new position have said to me 
“Why would you want to do that?” referring, I 
gather, to CCA’s rather uncertain or undefined 
future and I suppose to the fact that I run my own 
camp, study for innumerable exams with two 
teenagers, not to mention working on their term 
projects. “Well, why would I want to do that?” 
Unequivocably and definitely I want to play a 
part in the leadership of CCA for the next two 
years, because of very personal and real 
reasons. To be realistic, it is an honour to follow 
in the footsteps of CCA’s former presidents, but 
to accept such a challenge would be unrealistic 
without personal commitment stemming from 
past experiences. For many years CCA Confer¬ 
ences at Geneva Park, CCA publications, and 
CCA initiated programs have had a strong 
impact on my work as a camp director. I know 
more, do more and do it better because of all the 
opportunities that CCA has provided to learn 
and to meet hundreds of dedicated camping 
professionals. 

In 1985, CCA is an active, well organized, and 
effective organization with a proud past. An 
impressive CCA archival collection is in place at 
Trent University and continues to grow. A new 
Curriculum of Study for camp directors has 


been written and innovative methods of delivery 
are being discussed and implemented. An En¬ 
vironment Committee actively encourages 
camps to work with their campers and staff to 
responsibly use and live with our natural en¬ 
vironment. 

CCA is participating in the planning of a 
second International Camping Congress to be 
held in Washington, D.C. in 1987. The success of 
the CCA International Congress in 1983 in 
Toronto has made our representation on the 
1987 Steering Committee, valuable and well 
respected. 

International Youth Year is being celebrated 
by CCA with a highly successful conference at 
Bolton, Ontario in January, a special edition of 
the newsletter that you received in the Spring, 
and a campfire to be held across Canada on 
July 24,1985. 

Publication sales are booming and provide a 
vital service to camp directors and staff across 
Canada. A quarterly newsletter informs, pro¬ 
vokes and inspires the members of CCA. 

609 camps across Canada, as member of 
CCA are better camps because of CCA. 

400,000 campers each summer have a better 
experience than they might have, because of 
CCA, and the joint efforts of nine provincial 
associations in national programs. 


But now we face new challenges, and must 
face new realities. CCA is a federation of nine 
provincial associations and the reality of the 
cost of travel and communication in a country as 
large as Canada, means that there is a price-tag 
for all of this. A large price-tag and one that we 
must pay, since government funding is likely to 
be reduced. 

At the Regina Board Meeting in April 1985, the 
Board received a preliminary report from John 
Fisher who is examining the structure and 
funding of CCA. His suggestions were dis¬ 
cussed and following further input from provin¬ 
cial boards, a final report will be examined in 
June by the CCA Executive. 

As you read this newsletter, steps are under¬ 
way to reorganize CCA to respond to the 
realities of 1985. We will continue to communi¬ 
cate with Fitness Canada and as well seek other 
avenues to put CCA on a sound financial 
footing. A copy of the Canadian Camping Asso¬ 
ciation 1984 Annual Report can be obtained by 
contacting the CCA Office. 

The critical task is to continue CCA’s involve¬ 
ment with camps and camping professionals in 
Canada. What will emerge from all this restruc¬ 
turing could be refreshing, innovative and exhil¬ 
arating. Many occasions of desperation lead to 
clearer, stronger directions and I am convinced 
that such will be the case for CCA. 



5 


UN MESSAGE 


DE LA PRESIDENTE 

CCA File Photo 



par Janet Adamson 


On m’a elue presidente de I’ACC a I’assemblee 
annuelle qui a eu lieu a Regina en avril dernier et 
c’est en cette qualite que je m’adresse a vous. 
En apprenant que j’avais accepte ce mandat, 
plusieurs m’ont demande: “Pourquoi t’embar- 
quer dans ga?” J’en ai conclu qu’ils faisaient 
allusion a I’avenir vague et incertain de I’ACC, au 
fait que j’aie a diriger un camp, a me preparer a 
de nombreux examens, a m’occuper de mes 
deux adolescents et de leurs projets scolaires. 
Pourquoi en fait m’embarquer dans quelque 
chose d’autre? Tout bien considere, c’est que je 
desire jouer un role de premier plan a la tete de 
I’ACC au cours des deux prochainesannees. et 
ce, pour des raisons personnels et fort vala- 
bles. En fait, I’idee d’avoir a relever un nouveau 
defi m’emballe. C’est pour moi un honneur de 
suivre les traces des anciens presidents de 
I’ACC, bien qu’il serait peu realiste d’accepter un 
tel defi sans posseder ce besoin de devoue- 
ment, ne d’experiences passees. Les conferen¬ 
ces de I’ACC au pare de Geneve, les publica¬ 
tions et les programmes d’initiation de I’ACC ont 
exerce une influence considerable sur mon 
travail en tant que directeur de camp. J’en sais 
davantage, j’en fais davantage et m’y prends 
mieux pour le faire, grace a toutes les occasions 
que I’ACC m’a donnees d’apprendre et de ren- 
contrer des centaines d’individus dotes d’un 
sens du professionnalisme et devoues a la 
cause des camps. 

En cette annee 1985, nous pouvons qualifier 
I’ACC d’organisme actif, efficace, bien organise 
et fier de son passe. L’ACC conserve un nombre 
impressionnant d’archives a I’universite de Trent 
et continue d’en recueillir. Un nouveau pro¬ 
gramme d’etudes vient d’etre lance a I’intention 
des directeurs des camps et des methodes 
innovatrices d’elocution font I’objet de pour¬ 
parlers et sont mises en usage. Le comite de 
I’environnement encourage chaleureusement 
les dirigeants des camps et leur personnel a 
mettre en oeuvres des moyens d’apprendre aux 
campeurs a vivre dans I’environnement et a en 
etre responsable. 

L’ACC participe a la planification du deuxieme 
congres international des camps qui aura lieu a 
Washington, D.C., en 1987. Grace au succes que 
nous avons remporte en 1983 a Toronto, notre 
presence au sein du comite de direction est 
bien accueillie et vue comme tres utile. 

L'ACC a salue I’Annee internationale de la 
jeunesse en organisant en janvier un congres a 
Bolton (Ontario) qui s’est solde par une reussite. 
Nous avons prepare au printemps une edition 
speciale de notre bulletin a votre intention et 
nous organiserons des feux de camp partout au 
pays le 24 juillet prochain. 


Les ventes des publications vont bon train et 
procurent un service essentiel aux directeurs 
des camps et a leur personnel partout au pays. 
Une circulaire trimestrielle renseigne les mem- 
bres, les inspire et les incite a agir. 

Six cent neuf camps membres au Canada ont 
davantage a offrir grace a I’ACC. 

Quatre cent mille campeurs vivent une expe¬ 
rience plus enrichissante grace aux program¬ 
mes nationaux mis en oeuvre par I’ACC de 
concert avec les neuf associations provinciales. 

Et voila que nous devons relever de nouveaux 
defis et examiner la realite bien en face. L’ACC 
est une federation constitute de neuf associa¬ 
tions provinciales et le cout des voyages et du 
transport dans un pays aussi vaste que le 
Canada est monumental. Or ce prix eleve, nous 
devons le payer puisque le gouvernement a 
I’intention de nous retirer son aide. 

Lors de la reunion des membres du conseil a 
Regina en avril 1985, nous avons pris connais- 
sance du rapport preliminaire de John Fisher 


qui analyse la structure de I’ACC et ses sources 
de financement. Nous avons discute de ses 
suggestions et a la suite detudes de la part des 
membres des conseils provinciaux, nous exami- 
nerons un rapport definitif en juin. 

Au moment de lire cette lettre, les demarches 
pour restructurer I’ACC et repondre aux realites 
de 1985 auront deja ete entamees. Nous conti- 
nuerons de communiquer avec Donditionne- 
ment physique, Canada et analyserons d’autres 
avenues possibles pour asseoir I’ACC sur des 
fondationsfinancierement solides. Pourobtenir 
un exemplaire du rapport annuel 1984 de Asso¬ 
ciation des Camps du Canada veuillez contacter 
le bureaux de I’association. 

Le plus difficile est de garder I’ACC vivante et 
de la voir collaborer avec les camps et les 
experts dans ce domaine. Cette restructuration 
pourrait etre salubre innovatrice et stimulante. 
Tres souvent le desespoir ouvre sur des hori¬ 
zons plus larges et je suis convaincue que c’est 
ce qui se produira dans le cas de I’ACC. 


6 



CAMPING ADVISOR 


Would you please give us some suggestions for 
rainy day programs at camp? This seems to be 
the time when our campers are the most bored 
and frustrated because there's absolutely noth¬ 
ing to do. Our Director gave us a list of program 
ideas but nothing seems to work; the ideas 
looked good on paper (the rainy day program 
ideas) but none of the kids wanted to get 
involved. What would you suggest? 

J.S., Don Mills, Ontario 

Rainy day programs are difficult because the 
weather certainly affects our mood - and rainy 
days can put everyone (staff included) in a 
‘down’ or depressed mood just as the warm 
sunny days can elevate everyone's mood. How¬ 
ever, as the cream rises to the top, this is a time 
when an excellent leader emerges with energy, 
enthusiasm and spontaneity and views the rainy 
day situation as an opportunity to do something 
out of the ordinary! 

With respect to program ideas, we won’t go 
into any ideas because virtually every book on 
camp counselling has pages and pages of 
program ideas and activities for rainy days. The 
most important element, though, in approaching 
rainy day programs is the ATTITUDE of the camp 
counsellor. A game, in and of itself, will not be 
satisfying unless you set it up appropriately and 
enthusiastically. In other words, a counsellor 
who is sitting in his tent with a group of eight 
campers in the middle of a rainstorm and grabs 
the Camp Counsellor’s Handbook and says 
‘guys, would you like to play flashlight tag or 
password’ will probably get an unenthusiastic 
response from the campers. Conversely, the 
counsellor who takes an idea and adapts it 
enthusiastically to HIS group will never have a 
problem on rainy days - the point is, it’s the 
attitude and approach of the counsellor that is 
all important, not the idea or game or program. 

Many programs can continue in a camp 
despite the fact that it’s raining- ensure that the 
campers are wearing raingear and brave on 
with regular programming, where possible! 

Perhaps a rainy afternoon is a perfect time for 
you to read a story and let everyone take a 
much-needed nap if you feel your campers are a 
little overtired. Perhaps it’s the time to come up 
with a brilliant idea that the campers will never 
forget and indeed could be the highlight of their 
summer memories of camp. 

It’s your discretion, your decision-making 
ability and your attitude which will make a rainy 
day just another day at camp - dreary and 
uneventful or memorable and eventful! 

* * * 

Jogging has become very popular at our camp 
- usually among the staff. Recently, many cabin 
groups have been jogging on a daily basis 
because their counsellor is a runner; are there 
hazards or risks when children get into running 
or is it completely okay? 

A.B., Halifax, Nova Scotia 


It depends on many many factors to determine 
whether jogging is safe, beneficial and healthy 
whether you are a child or adult. The first con¬ 
sideration is the prevention of injury and a 
complete warm-up and warm-down should be 
performed before and after a jog. Different types 
of terrain may be hazardous as far as turning 
ankles and that sort of thing; also, concrete is 
the absolute worst surface for running or jogging 
with respect to its incredible impact on the bone 
structure of heels pounding down hundreds or 
thousands of times. This is an important consid¬ 
eration where children are concerned; says Dr. 
Lyle Micheli, chief of the Sports Medicine Clinic 
at Boston’s Children’s Hospital; ‘legs can be 
punished with six to eight times the body weight 
while running. For this reason, no competitors 


under 16 years of age are allowed to compete in 
the Boston Marathon... ordinary free running is 
harmless to children, but competitive running 
where a child will push himself to the point of 
injury to please others can cause damage when 
the growing ends of the bones are still open.’ 

Proper footwear is also a consideration (an 
earlier issue of Canadian Camping dealt with 
this area in detail). If the jogging is a moderate 
activity, done a few times a week, with the whole 
cabin group, it’s probably a very healthy group 
activity. That’s one of the nicer aspects of 
jogging - everyone can take part and benefit 
equally! If it’s a serious, strenuous exercise 
where times are recorded and it’s a very compe¬ 
titive event, it’s probably not a very positive or 
pro-social activity. 



Mark Pavilons 


CAMPING...A RETROSPECTIVE 


Challenge in camping 


Address given by Barry Lowes to 
the closing banquet of the Annual 
Conference of the Ontario Camp¬ 
ing Association on March 19, 
1966, at the Inn-on-the-Park, 
Toronto 

This new feature will become a regular part of 
Canadian Camping; each issue we will go back 
many many years to a previously spoken or 
published work on some aspect of camping in 
Canada. Our retrospective will not only give us a 
sense of nostalgia perhaps, but also an oppor¬ 
tunity to examine to what degree the atmos¬ 
phere, thrusts and initiatives of bygone days are 
relevant today. It may also help us realize that 
the more things change, the more they stay the 
same. 

When the late A.L Cochrane first went into 
Temagami, the Wright brothers hadn’t even 
gotten off the ground at Kitty Hawk, Vet, on any 
clear night at camp last summer, one could look 
up and see a man-made satellite moving across 
the sky. The brakes are off the world. It’s on a 
run-away scientific course and camping is in 
grave danger of being left behind. 

Is Camping Obsolete? 

Some say that camping is on the way out - 
and they could be right. Whether it withers and 
dies, remembered only as a romantic anachron¬ 
ism of the first half of the 20th century, or 
whether it grows and develops to meet the 
special needs of this new age will depend upon 
us - you and me. 

At this very moment, when camping appears 
to be at a peak of development, the forces of 
extinction are at work. They can be seen, if you 
take time to look, know where to look - and want 
to look. Those people who believe that camping 
can continue in its present form constitute one 
of the g reatest threats to the campi ng movement. 

The most obvious force for change lies in the 
variety of choices available to more and more 
people today. Patterns of family living have been 
revolutionized in the past ten years. Shorter 
work weeks, longer paid vacations, more money 
to spend, more cars, boats, more parks and 
camping grounds, better roads; families are on 
the move. 

Another pressure is caused by the booming 
real estate market in cottage properties. Where 
only ten years ago you could move freely about 
the province, today, south of North Bay, the lands 
and lakes are being gobbled up at an accelerat¬ 
ing rate. 

Another whole strata of our society is dis¬ 
covering the world. Thousands of boys and 
girls, and older teenagers are taking off for 
Europe each summer or to tour the U.S.A., or on 
student exchanges. This outpouring from our 
cities isn’t bad. It's wonderful! But these are 


families who feel no need for camp. 

Another threat to camping is the sprawling 
amoeba of government that is growing, spread¬ 
ing, touching and enveloping ever more areas of 
our lives. In the past few years camping has felt 
the pseudopodial touch of ever more depart¬ 
ments of government. The legislation covering 
every area of education and child-care is grow¬ 
ing. Claiming to be educational, camping lies in 
the path of this legislation. 

Standards 

At present, the most precious possession that 
any parents have - their child - is entrusted to 
our care. Naively, they assume that membership 
in OCA is some guarantee of excellence. But is 
isn’t really. The importance of raising our sights 
on standards, gradually but steadily, is vital to 
the future of camping. If we do not constantly 
improve our own houses, others will want to do 
it for us. 

We have just appointed an executive secre¬ 
tary. This is a wonderful sign of growth, and in 
Mr. Stan Wild I believe you have made a wise 
choice. There is also grave danger in such a 
step. For too long, too few people have sup¬ 
ported and carried out the work of the Associa¬ 
tion. There is danger that people may be all too 
eager to step back and let the executive secre¬ 
tary carry the load. The strength of OCA has 
been its voluntary nature; it will only be as strong 
as your active participation. Anyone can pay 
fees, that’s only money and its value keeps 
shrinking. The only real valuable thing any of us 
have to give is our time. How much have you 
given during the past year? This is the true 
measure of your support of the camping move¬ 
ment. 

Another force that has eroded the strength of 
the Camping Association for many years has 
been the under-current of pettiness that has 
accompanied the terms profit and non-profit. To 
me, these terms are anathema. There are many 
private non-profit camps and a number of 
agency profit camps in this province. There is a 
demeaning connotation to the word non-profit 
and an equally slurrish undertone to the word 
profit. A camp is a camp, and a child is a child. 
The aims and objectives should be parallel. 
Good and bad camping can be found in either 
private or agency camps. The sooner we realize 
that we are both in the same canoe, shooting the 
same rapids, and paddle together, the better off 
the camping movement will be. 

Camping vs. Education 

An even bigger threat to the camping move¬ 
ment, and one that has only been glimpsed, is 
education. The greatest explosion that has 
occurred in the world in the past five years has 
not been the 50-megaton bomb, it has been 
education. The word is on everyone’s lips. It is 
held up as the panacea or it is reviled as a trick 
to keep teenagers off the labour market. Wher¬ 
ever you stand along the spectrum, you cannot 


deny that education is the most important force 
at work in the world today. It is a tidal wave 
moving across our land and camping could be 
engulfed. 

For as long as I can remember, camping 
people have boasted that camping is more than 
fresh air and sunshine, more than just recrea¬ 
tion. We have maintained that it is a special, 
intensive kind of education, set in the out-of- 
doors. The more I see of education, and the 
seven-league strides it is taking, and the closer I 
look at what camps do as opposed to what they 
claim to do - the more I think we talk a better 
game than we play. 

Let us look at some of the recent developments 
in education that relate directly to camping. 

Summer schools have caught on and are 
here to stay and flourish. They started as make¬ 
up courses for students who were weak in one 
or two subjects. They are a wonderful alternative 
for the old idiotic practice of repeating a whole 
grade. How many of us have lost junior coun¬ 
sellors or older campers at the last minute to 
summer schools? This will continue to increase 
and is even occurring at the elementary school 
level in some systems. We may have to make 
acceptance of staff and campers conditional 
upon Easter results. 

Another threat is the voluntary summer school. 
More and more students are discovering that 
learning can in truth be fun. Academic students 
are signing up for welding, carpentry, typing, or 
drafting courses. Technical students have shown 
an eagerness to take English, typing, philosophy, 
bookkeeping; over 40 different subjects are 
offered, just for pleasure. This is wonderful. This 
is true education. The courses are free and 
more and more students are enrolling. But as 
these numbers grow, young people are drawn 
away from camping. 

Another threat to camping is the very real 
possibility of a long school year. Why do we 
have two full months vacation every summer? 
The rationale for it probably dates back to the 
farm boy at the “little red school house” - Tom 
Sawyer days. There are those in positions of 
influence in education who believe that it wastes 
students’ time and is grossly wasteful of money 
to let our schools stay idle all summer. We may 
have to consider operating our camps at other 
times of the year for shorter camping periods. 

Does this mean that all agency and private 
camps should become summer schools mixing 
large doses of French, remedial reading, new 
mathematics and science with traditional camp 
activities? Tutorials under the trees! I hope not! 
Heaven help us, I hope not! Then where does 
camping fit in? 

Real Values of Camping 

Has camping been pass6, a horse and buggy 
in a space age? I believe that the need for camp- 
i ng is greater today than ever before. The values 
inherent in camping, the multitude of values that 


8 



you all know so well, are needed by children and 
youth as never before. The mounting pressures 
besetting children in our increasingly techno¬ 
logy-oriented society, the threat of nuclear an¬ 
nihilation. the threat of automation, the threat of 
endless leisure, the threat of amorality - are 
constant and real to young people. 

We have always talked and boasted about the 
impressive list of values that can accrue to a 
child from a camping experience. But I submit to 
you, the claims have been mostly shadows 
without substance; they could not stand up to 
close scrutiny in a cold, unflattering light. 

There are dozens of areas of camping that we 
should scrutinize together. Time is short. Let’s 
look at just a few. 

Parents are far more discriminating today 
than 10 years ago. More and more have the 
affrontery to want to know why they should send 
their child to camp? The two short summer 
months are precious. How can my son or 
daughter spend them most valuably? What has 
your camp to offer that is really vital and 
meaningful for my teenager? For instance, we 
talk about learning to live with others, develop¬ 
ing a concern for others. Does this really happen 
at your camp? 

Maybe we should take them to work with our 
impoverished Indians or into our downtown 
slum areas. Give them a chance to serve where 
there are real problems, real involvement in life. 

Too often we camp on islands of unreality 
while the world about us is a seething sea. For 
instance, Canada stands in danger of coming 
apart at the seams, after 100 years. Just beneath 
the veneer of stability are the old festering 
wounds, excoriated pride. We should be ex¬ 
changing masses of children back and forth 
across this country. If the 3V2 millions of dollars 
that have been poured down the drain on the 
Bilingual and Bicultural Commission had been 
spent instead to exchange young people, getting 
them into homes and camps across Canada, to 
live together for a time. What a bridge of under¬ 
standing such exchanges could form! 

What of the world’s starving millions? While 
our campers diet, others die of hunger. What a 
paradox! Maybe our campers should go without 
food for one day each week to see how it feels to 
listen to their stomachs growl with hunger. The 
money saved could be sent to CARE or UNICEF 

The true story is told of the two 7-year-olds in 
the school yard discussing perigees, apogees 
and terminal velocities of rockets. When the bell 
rang, one boy said to the other with resignation 
“Come on, I guess we have to go and see what 
Dick and Jane are doing”. 

What do our camps give these children who 
have watched men walk in space - seen close- 
up picture of the moon, who know about the 
DNA molecule? What kind of a natural science 
program do you have at your camp? Children 
were born to learn. Do we excite or stifle their 
natural curiosity? Do we encourage discussion 
of these things? 

These are swingers who come to our camps. 
They are “hep”. They are concerned about the 
world into which they were born. If they are 
confused, frightened, disillusioned - it is with 
good cause. 


These youngsters are citizens of a shrinking 
but seething world and they are adrift in it. Most 
adults give them little or no guidance and a poor 
example. Camp should be a place where there 
is time for thinking, discussion and reflection - a 
chance to talk out their feelings with adults who 
care, who do not sneer, scoff nor condescend - 
who do not preach, but listen and teach by 
example. 

There are two problems uppermost in the 
minds of teenagers today: school and their 
guture jobs; and their relationships with the 
opposite sex. They talk about these constantly, 
pooling their ignorance. Where can they get 
answers? They certainly don’t get them at home 
or at school or at church. 

We talk so much about how children learn to 
live with others, how we shape personalities 
and mould character. If it happensat all, I submit 
that in many camps it is more by accident than 
design. The thing that troubles me is that we in 
camping seem not to realize that we have in our 
camps the most dynamic social and educational 
milieux ever conceived. We are dabbling with an 
educational instrument whose full potential we 
have seldom glimpsed, let alone exploited. 

Each Child is an Individual 

Educators in the last few years have been 
moving out of the age of Oliver Twist into the 
20th century. For years educators have paid lip 
service to the “individuality of each child”. They 
have agreed that there is no such thing as the 
average child, each one is different. They grow, 
mature and learn at different rates. Yet, most 
schools are run as if there weren’t a word of 
truth in it. 

Each child is different, with different needs 
and different interests. Make this basic principle 
the star by which you guide your camps. It will 
be infinitely more demanding to treat campers 
as individuals, but the rewards, the values - in 
fact, the very reason for camping - demand that 
we cannot do less. If you want to measure your 
camp - use this yardstick. 


Fumbling Our Opportunities 

We have these children 24 hours a day. Each 
day stretches before us, full of opportunities. So 
often we fumble these opportunities in so many 
ways. 

By permitting people who have not sufficient 
qualifications to direct camps. The upgrading, 
training and ultimate certification of directors 
must be achieved before camping can lay any 
claim to professional status. 

By placing more emphasis on building and 
equipment than on staff. We often put more 
campers into a group than a counsellor can 
properly serve. 

By claiming that we cannot afford to pay coun¬ 
sellors and settling for staff who are too young 
or too inexperienced to meet the staggering 
demands of their roles? Are your counsellors 
still working out their own growing problems? 
Do they baby-sit or boss but hardly ever counsel. 

By leaving campers on their own for most of 
the day, while their counsellor teaches an activity. 
Who really knows or is aware and concerned 
about what happens to each camper hour by 
hour, day by day? 

By failing to provide the experienced super¬ 
visory help that young counsellors need so 
desperately, and which they have a right to 
expect. 

By placing more emphasis upon activities 
than on children. Programmes are organized so 
that little room is provided for individual differ¬ 
ences and interests. 

By not allowing campers time to be free, to 
choose, to daydream, to explore, to adventure, 
to have fun. 

Directors sometimes sink into the quicksand 
of administration, forgetting the real reason for 
camp. 

Do We Know Children? 

The greatest single lack in camping today, 
and it relates directly to these matters is that, in 
truth, we don’t understand children. If you say to 
a counsellor, "Your campers are a pretty stupid 



9 


CCA File Photo 


Jay Haddad 


Challenge in Camping Cont’d. 


bunch, they can’t even do trigonometry", he will 
answer, “Don’t be silly. Of course they can’t; they 
are only 10 years old". And yet, this same coun¬ 
sellor will expect the trigonometry of social 
behaviour from those same 10-year-olds, and 
be angry and upset and even punish them when 
they can’t meet his expectations. 

So many of the counsellor problems with 
which we have to deal at camp are related 
directly to a lack of understanding of what we 
can rightfully expect from the child at his present 
level of development. The young counsellor 
gets upset because his 8-year-olds cannot 
make their beds properly- aren’t even interested 
in tidiness or cleanliness. Ten-year-old girls can 
be whiners, petty and vindictive, mercilessly 
forming hate-clubs against other girls, and so 
on. You cannot even pretend to meet and treat 
campers as individuals until you have some 
conception of fair levels of social behaviour to 
expect. 

I respectfully submit that OCA should set up a 
committee to prepare a booklet on patterns and 
stages of development in boys and girls as they 
relate to camp. This would be another big step in 
taking camping out of the hope-and-guess 
category into the field of education and profes¬ 
sionalism. 

Let me just put three more cases before you. 


Camps for the Campers 

You must be as deeply concerned as I am 
about the pressure to which our children are 
being subjected today. Children with ulcers, 
children with breakdowns, children on tranquil¬ 
izers - all symptoms of these mounting pres¬ 
sures. It takes a good week at camp for some to 
unwind, relax and realize that, for a brief time, 
the pressure cooker has been turned off. 

Let’s abolish bells, bugles and sirens that 
shatter the air at most camps. Why must the 
camper be answering signals all day? Why must 
the lights-out hour be so rigidly enforced? Why 
must the explorers turn back ‘‘or we’ll be late for 
our next period”? Why can’t clothes be a little 
sloppier? Must his tent or cabin look like a 
R.M.C. barracks room? Is it really important? Too 
often we forget that it is the child’s holiday. 

At camp a child should sometimes be able to 
lie on his back and watch the clouds scud by 
beyond the pines above him. He should be able 
to turn on his side and watch an ant tugging, 
pushing, shoving a huge caterpillar through the 
jungle of grass that forms his microscopic 
world. There must be time for a child or a group 
to stay up late, or even be aroused from sleep to 
see the northern lights, a meteorite shower or to 
paddle down a highway of moonlight - time to 
watch fish jumping as the sun sets. These 


experiences must be theirs to remember for a 
lifetime, long after the baseball game, the archery, 
the routine activities are forgotten. 

How about conservation? Oh, how piously we 
camping people talk of conservation! Everyone 
is in favour or conservation, but when did you 
last plant any trees at your camp? What are you 
doing to check erosion at your camp? Are you 
wantonly spraying with insecticides? Do you 
clear out all the underbrush and dead stumps so 
essential to some forms of wildlife. Is your lake 
cleaner or dirtier since your camp was estab¬ 
lished? You can preach conservation, but the 
children aren’t listening. They are watching your 
example. 

The truth is, you know, many camp directors 
do not like nature or outdoor living. 

One more thing that camp can give - must 
give- to each child; that is an awareness of God. 
The word is out that God is dead! Rubbish! The 
poor fool who made that statement could never 
have camped. I know of no place that can give a 
child a greater awareness of God. You have to 
search to find God in the city. At camp He is 
everywhere. 

Spiritual values cannot be taught; certainly 
not by young students who have been spiritually 
emasculated by first-year philosophy. Such 
knowledge is caught - it is felt because it is an 
integral part of the whole camp beginning with 
the director. Your campers will miss these values 
unless you feel tham first. They are learned all 
day indirectly, not just at services. For the soul, 
like the body, lives by what it feeds on. Is your 
camp rich in this soul food? 

Let’s Not Be Left Behind 

What I have tried to say is that the camping 
movement cannot stand still - the world current 
is racing too swiftly. That there is a greater need 
for camping today than ever before. But we 
cannot stumble along from summer to summer, 
meaning well, hoping that we are fulfilling our 
aims. Camping as an educational and social 
force is too powerful, too valuable to be left to us 
if we do not utilize its potential. 

We have not realized fully that we have in our 
camping hands something unique, mysteriously 
simple, profoundly complex. We don’t need to 
search for slick new techniques nor for old tech¬ 
niques with new labels. All that is required, and it 
sounds too simple, is to actually succeed in 
doing what we have always claimed to be doing. 
This is much more difficult than groping for new 
techniques, but it is the true answer. We must 
either make good on our old claims about 
values or step aside. 

Children and youth come to us at a malleable 
age. The attitudes, habits, values that we indicate 
will shape their lives and, in turn, the future of 
this country. For the children who come to our 
camps today will be running this country in the 
year 2000. 

By recognizing and nurturing the individuality 
of each child, by helping them to meet each 
day’s living on a full, rich and adequate basis, we 
can best prepare them to meet the unknowns of 
their later lives. 

•As we contemplate the magnitude of our task, 
it is an awesome responsibility that we take on, 
but also a tremendous opportunity. 



10 





Society of Camp Directors Awards Paper 


The Challenge of Camping 

By: Gail McClintock, St Lambert, Quebec 



Society of Camp Directors 


Camp is the ultimate summer challenge. How 
can we keep a multitude of campers, their 
counsellors as well as the senior staff happy, 
fresh and content throughout the camping 
season? These are times when this seems to be 
an impossible task. We all want to let everyone 
in on that great summer camp experience, but 
how can this be achieved? How can we as 
leaders motivate everyone to be creative and 
resourceful, to work to their full potential and 
also stay in harmony with each other? 

Being well prepared for camp is a major con¬ 
tributing factor to a successful summer session. 
Through courses, clinics and pre-camp training, 
the whole program staff can learn the mechanics 
of their jobs. They can upgrade their qualifica¬ 
tions, learn new skills and broaden their horizons 
by meeting people from other camps with dif¬ 
ferent backgrounds and philosophies. These 
activities serve as growth opportunities for the 
staff and should be encouraged not only for the 
staff person but also for the campers who will 
surely benefit in turn. 

All staff members should have a good under¬ 
standing of the rules and regulations of the 
camp at the beginning of the season. This 
clarifies and helps prevent any misunderstand¬ 
ings that could arise. Expectations and assump¬ 
tions can sometimes lead to difficulties and 
specific rules and regulations can keep matters 
clean and simple. The camp staff should be 
encouraged to come to camp both physically 
and mentally well rested and healthy. A keen, 
enthusiastic staff projects well for the camp. It 
shows parents that people really care about 
their children and are committed to give the 
campers a positive summer camp experience. 
Finally, being well prepared includes program 
essentials. As well as being skilled in the 
various fields, the staff must also be able to 
establish and carry out a well planned program 
with good organization. Camp programs should 
be challenging yet fun at the same time. These 
activities must be well supervised and safe for 
the camper. A well planned program is a positive 
approach to a smoothly operating camp. 

Fun activities also provide successful camp¬ 
ing sessions. Those old favourites like the staff 
and counsellor hunt, the carnival or the soap 
slide are all great programs and should be 
repeated but how about some variety too? Are 
there some new methods the staff can use 
during some sessions? How about new activi¬ 
ties? The returning camper will especially appre¬ 
ciate a bit of change from the year before. This 


does not advocate completely new structures 
for each and every camp each year but decide 
what would be appropriate to repeat and do so. 
Also, try some new ideas. How about a new 
theme for the dress up night? Or, how about a 
monkey supper? Instead of using regular cutlery, 
use various kitchen utensils to eat spaghetti. 
Sometimes, a little change brings out the imag¬ 
ination and resourcefulness of the camper. 
Back up programs for rainy days should also be 
carefully worked out so that they are first rate 
and fun. So much can be done beforehand that 
there is really no reason not to have exciting 
programs. 

New projects are one aspect of camp life that 
can help the staff attain their potential. Some¬ 
thing new will challenge them and make them 
realize that all the pre-camp preparation that 
they have participated in has been worthwhile. 
Perhaps the new project will be a canoe trip to 
an area not yet covered in previous camps. 
Maybe a new area of instruction will be included 
in your program. That newspaper or winter 
newsletter may finally get off the ground. What¬ 
ever the project, the enthusiasm generated and 
the participation involved will spur more interest 
and pride in accomplishment. These new pro¬ 
jects give the staff members the opportunity of 
growth both in the planning and implementation 
of the program. The whole camp can be involved. 
For example, a new project could be a chocolate 
cakewalk. Campers draw pictures of chocolate 
cakes walking, which are used as squares for a 
lifesize board game. Counsellors and their 
charges make up verses to a cakewalk song 
that is created for the occasion by the staff. After 
a contest for the best verse, the cakewalk gets 
underway. The staff sing their verses and chorus 
while the campers march to the tune across the 
board game. When the song stops, whoever is 
on the lucky square wins a chocolate cake. 
Campers, counsellors and staff will have a great 
time. Perhaps a new tradition will be born. Total 
camp involvement in a new project can bring the 
whole group together and help them to develop 
as a team. 

Encouraging new staff and counsellors to 
participate in the life of the camp can be an 
integral part of the great summer camp exper¬ 
ience. These new campers are often young and 
inexperienced but they also have ideas from 
elsewhere that may prove successful. Many 
new staff members have done lots of research 
before taking up their new jobs. How can their 
ideas work for you? Are you willing to give them 


a chance? These new staff members need the 
experience of camping to grow and develop into 
leaders for tomorrow. We must try to provide for 
them the opportunity so that they can become 
leaders in their own right. The use of visual aids, 
readings and the experience gained elsewhere 
can be a great asset to the camp program. A 
strong camp administration can help to provide 
the valuable assistance a new staff member 
needs. A new face who enlists for the summer at 
one of our camps will quite possibly have the 
potential of returning for a few years to come. 
We need to realize and encourage this. Contin¬ 
uity within the camp structure can be a vital 
asset to the camp. We must help these people 
who are new to camping so that they will 
develop into valuable contributing team mem¬ 
bers at our summer camps. 

How about those magic moments of camping? 
A camper discovers the big dipper. Another 
learns that they can open their eyes underwater. 
Wonder! Achievement! These are important 
moments in the life of a child. They will remember 
these times when they go home from camp. The 
staff and counsellors must endeavour to be 
caring and understanding of our campers. They 
must learn that as staff and counsellors, they 
can really make a difference in the child’s life at 
camp. Through their attitude and actions the 
camp staff create a meaningful climate, condu¬ 
cive to learning and fun. Whether it be an adven¬ 
turous canoe trip for the novice, stargazing or 
learning a new swim stroke, the child’s develop¬ 
ment is enhanced at camp. If we, as camp per¬ 
sonnel are aware of these developments in the 
life of the camper, we will be able to react and 
handle the situation in the best light. These can 
be rewarding and meaningful times for the staff 
and counsellor as well as for the camper. 

Flexibility is perhaps one of the most important 
elements of insuring our Canadian youngsters 
of the ultimate summer experience. It is the 
ability to be adaptable to various situations. It is 
being ready to modify the program. It is being 
free to make choices as the need arises. Many 
situations in camping warrant a flexible ap¬ 
proach. The weather frequently causes us to 
change our summer camp program. This is 
something that we all anticipate and expect and 
so we are ready for the changes that the 
weather necessitates. But, what about other 
changes? Are we prepared to go with the mood 
of the camp even if it means changing the 
program? Sometimes doing so can really lead 

Cont'd. on Page 17 


11 


»» 


Society of Camp Directors Awards Paper 
v^Vriie Kid Who Doesn’t Speak English... 
Sscd!> How Do we Help? 

L ^ By: Madelene Ferguson Allen, Director, Camp Ouareau, Quebec 

Sociclg of Cdmp Directors 


We all know these children. They are the ones 
who step off the bus with big frightened eyes. 
They are the ones who stand alone while old 
friends greet each other. They are the ones who 
move quietly and hesitantly and sit down only 
when the others begin to. They are the ones who 
stare helplessly, or sit, head down, like scolded 
puppies. They are “the kids who don’t speak 
English”. 

We have all received letters from parents who 
want their child to come to our camps to learn 
English. Camps accept these children, put them 
into cabin groups, tell the counsellor to “speak 
slowly, be patient and do your best’’... then four 
or eight weeks later, if everyone does their best, 
the child will be sent home speaking English! If 
only it were that simple! 

In too many cases the most short changed 
children at our summer camps are these chil¬ 
dren who don’t speak English. Camps are not in 
tune with this growing segment of our camper 
population. There are techniques to help these 
children just as there are techniques to help the 
learning disabled child, the child from a divided 
home, the only child, the child with social prob¬ 
lems and any other group of children that we 
wish to categorize. 

It is far easier to let “the kid who doesn’t speak 
English” spend his time with others of his own 
language group (if there are others) than to con¬ 
stantly encourage him to join with English 
campers who have received guidance in how to 
help him. It is simpler to use a counsellor with a 
second year university language course than 
for every single adult who comes in contact with 
this child to knowledgeably guide him step by 
step to gain the confidence necessary to start 
the process of assimilating another language 
while at the same time assuring that he has one 
of the best summers of his life. 

Maslow, in his Hierarchy of Needs states that 
each level must be fulfilled before the human 
spirit is ready to take on the next. Security is the 
first level which must be attained before any 
further growth can take place. How can a child 
feel secure when all he hears around him is a 
babble of sound? 

The first steps to making a child fee! at home 
in your camp must start long before that child 
arrives. A letter from you, the director, must go 
out to that camper. Translation can be expensive, 
but it is a worthwhile and necessary investment. 
You will find language students at your local 
university more than willing to earn a few 
dollars. Tell the child about camp. Give him the 


daily timetable so he will know what to expect, 
tell him how he will choose his activities. Send 
him a dictionary of fifty or so basic camp words 
... words such as assembly, bug juice, morning 
dip ... words that he would never meet in his 
English class. Invite the child to write back to 
you with any questions he may have. Even if he 
doesn't write, he will have a sense that there is 
someone waiting who truly cares about him. 

As soon as possible after the child steps off 
the bus, make yourself known to him. Make the 
effort and learn to say, “Hello, I am the person 
who wrote to you, we're so glad you're here”. 
You may be rewarded with a long, perhaps 
tearful response. Don’t panic! He is at least 
communicating. If this should happen, listen 
and then give him the biggest hug you can. Body 
language is the most crucial communication 
tool you have at this moment and will have for 
some time. We Anglo-Saxons are not a demon¬ 
strative people, but this is no time to stand on 
ceremony! 

It is not a good idea to put Jean Pierre (let’s 
give this child an identity) in a cabin group with a 
camper who speaks fluent French (or Spanish, 
or German). Like a drowning man clinging to a 
life preserver, Jean Pierre will cling to that 
camper. Let him make the effort to find someone 
else who speaks French. In his search he will 
meet others who do not and he will learn the 
magic of a smile. 

Take time in pre-camp to have a session with 
your staff dealing with the second language 
camper. Plan on having one willing staff member 
free for a few minutes every day to help J.P. 
Helping him is not just the responsibility of that 
one counsellor. There must be a consistency of 
method and an ongoing communication be¬ 
tween the staff of what he is working on and 
accomplishing. There must also be an under¬ 
standing of what he is going through and what 
techniques will help him learn as quickly and as 
easily as possible. 

There are a number of pitfalls which some of 
your staff may fall into depending on their level 
of maturity and experience. They may speak 
more loudly to him. They may assume he is not 
as intelligent as other campers of the same age. 
They will certainly become exasperated at times 
because he doesn’t understand. It doesn't matter 
that they have told him something five times. He 
didn’t understand five times! They must be 
reminded that it is NOT JEAN PIERRE’S FAULT!!! 

The old addage “actions speak louder than 
words” has never been truer than when working 


with this lad. English words are to him only 
sounds. Your job in the course of the summer is 
to have those sounds take on meaning and they 
will only take on meaning by repetition and 
demonstration. 

A swimming instructor could help in this 
fashion: 

“Now boys, we’re going to practice diving 
today. Peter, will you show J.P. what DIVE 
means? J.P., Peter is going TO DIVE.” (Peter 
dives, hopefully he doesn’t do a bellyflop for that 
would rather complicate matters.) 

“Very good Peter. J.P. what did Peter do?” (At 
this point the counsellor may be rewarded with a 
correct response, if not, the counsellor could tell 
him that Peter did a DIVE.) 

“John will you DIVE now. Robert, it is your turn 
TO DIVE. J.P. will you DIVE now.” 

It would be surprising if J.P. didn’t do the very 
best dive he could. He will not know the meaning 
of every word that was said, but he will have 
learned the “core phrase” and put an action to it. 

If every counsellor takes the same format they 
will be amazed at how quickly J.P. will learn the 
basic vocabulary. More importantly, J.P. himself 
will soon learn to use these words which will 
give him the confidence which comes from 
doing what is asked and receiving praise for the 
action. 

A camp should not, under any circumstances, 
accept a child who does not speak English 
unless it is willing to become totally involved in 
giving the child the time and the teaching 
necessary to overcome the initial panic which 
comes from not understanding what is going on 
around him. Fear is a terrible emotion to foster in 
a child, and unless Jean Pierre feels secure in 
the sense that others care enough about him to 
help him learn, he will be terribly, terribly afraid. 

Don’t expect him to show tremendous pro¬ 
gress. He may, and that is wonderful, but children 
learn in their own way and at their own speed. 
The fear of making mistakes is very real and it is 
vital that the counsellor spend a little time with 
the other children in the cabin during the first 
day or so of camp to explain to them how they 
can help their new cabin mate. They must make 
a real effort to include him in whatever they are 
doing. When they speak to him they should try to 
use “core phrases” with lots of actions. This can 
be done naturally. Children can be very under¬ 
standing and sympathetic teachers but they can 
also be cruel to someone whom they see as 
“different”. It could be very easy for Jean Pierre 
to think his cabin mates are laughing at him for 


12 



any number of reasons. Very often they just 
don’t realize how their actions can be interpreted 
by someone who doesn’t understand what they 
are saying to each other and this needs to be 
pointed out by the counsellor before the situation 
arises. Jean Pierre needs cabin mates who are 
kind, understanding and patient. He does not 
need a cabin mate who is a tease, or a bully nor 
does his counsellor need a “problem” camper 
in that tent. All his energy will be going to meld 
that cabin into a unit with Jean Pierre as an 
integral part. Often a camper who tends to be a 
bit of a loner will blossom with a “weaker” child 
in the cabin and will take the second language 
camper under his wing. 

This is no situation for a new inexperienced, 
untried staff member. It is probably better not to 
have a staff member who is fluent in the language 
for Jean Pierre will become extremely dependant 
and will come to expect translation unless the 
situation is very carefully handled. A little is 
better than a lot in this case. The counsellor 
must be a mature individual to know when it is 
time to step in or to call for help. To know how far 
to let the ‘sink or swim’ theory go and when a 
child is going down for the second time (not the 
third). Then is the time for the life preserver, 
someone who can speak the child’s language 
although this is not always possible. We once 
had a Japanese child who had been in Canada 
only a few weeks before coming to camp. The 
life preserver in this case is lots and lots and lots 
of Tender Loving Care. 

What about campers’ help? What if you don’t 
have a counsellor who speaks the child’s lan¬ 
guage, but you do have a camper who is fluent? 
We had to call on a Spanish speaking senior to 
help a unilingual junior who was desperately 
homesick. How many fourteen year olds know 
the techniques for dealing with this situation? 
We have all met children who have helped 
others. They can be good, but we can't assume 
this in the case where we are the ones asking a 
camper with a particular language skill to help 



us. If you put another camper in this situation he 
needs help, support, guidance, public recogni¬ 
tion and thanks for his efforts. 

It is very important for your staff to understand 
the role of time in language assimilation, both in 
terms of the daily time table and in relation to the 
whole camp period. During the first few days 
Jean Pierre, like any new camper will be using 
all his energy just getting used to the routine and 
a new way of life. The counsellor can work out 
the timetable with him and post it by his bed. As 
things happen Jean Pierre can write them in 
French. Bedtime is a good time to do this for it 
involves him in the quiet cabin time which is so 
special. His counsellor may find that he with¬ 
draws as bedtime comes near. He should be 
warned about this and told not to worry about 
his camper if this occurs. The boy is understand¬ 
ably tired and has come to the point where he 
just can’t make any more effort. It is absolutely 
exhausting to live in a foreign language. It is an 
indescribable form of fatigue which attacks 
body and soul as well as brain. The counsellor 
shouldn’t force him to become involved in con¬ 
versation at this time. Let him read or write a 
letter or listen quietly to what is going on. He 
must be sure though not to short change him a 
‘tuck in time’. Even if Jean Pierre doesn’t under¬ 
stand the words his counsellor says to him he 
will recognize the kind tone of his voice, the 
familiar feeling of a caring adult pulling up the 
blankets under his chin. These actions will give 
him a warm feeling inside and courage to tackle 
another day. 

Some children may be progressing well and 
then about ten days into camp they will suddenly 
regress, switch off and become silent and 
hesistant. This is a well documented effect of 
immersion. He has reached the stage where he 
is beginning to make sense out of the jumble of 
sounds. He’s stopped trying to translate every 
word and he is really feeling very good about the 
whole experience. Then suddenly, he realizes 
that he can’t remember what was just said and 




frustration sets in with a vengeance. To under¬ 
stand this imagine yourself driving in a snow¬ 
storm. You are concentrating so hard to stay on 
the road that you have no idea of the landmarks 
you have passed or how far or how long you 
have been driving. Your mind is totally taken up 
with the task at hand. It is exactly the same for 
the person in immersion. The child will think he 
understands the rules of the game but will find 
that he was concentrating so hard in under¬ 
standing the words he didn’t take in the whole. 
When this happens the child becomes discour¬ 
aged, but it does pass and there is not much 
someone else can do except to give constant 
positive reinforcement and praise. Jean Pierre 
will need reminding that he is doing well. 

A good way of reminding him of his daily 
progress is to have a cabin dictionary. Rest hour 
is an excellent time to do this for it brings the 
children together with a project. As J.P learns 
new words they can be illustrated and the 
English word written on the page. Just as impor¬ 
tantly let him teach the others the word in 
French to join its English counterpart. Have the 
children draw pictures of words they think he 
will know. He may think he doesn’t know it, but 
as soon as he sees the picture the word will 
come to mind and he will discover he knows far 
more than he thought he did. These pages can 
decorate the cabin wall or be kept in a binder. 
This system works whether a child is eight or 
fifteen. 

Another reaction which is rarer, but which can 
occur especially in a young child, is an irrational 
fear of losing his own language and following 
from this the fear that his parents will not under¬ 
stand him when he returns home. This is some¬ 
thing which a child will not be able to articulate 
even in his own language but must be consi¬ 
dered if severe regression accompanied by first 
homesickness well into camp. If the regression 
doesn't pass in four or five days it is essential 
that the child be reassured by talking to some¬ 
one in his own language. If this is impossible by 
someone at the camp a phone call home may be 
in order with the child speaking to his parents 
after you have explained the situation to them. 
This is presupposing the parents speak English. 
If they don’t then it is probably better to handle it 
in camp with all the positive reinforcement 
everyone on the site can muster. 

Caution your staff to remember that compre¬ 
hension comes before the ability to speak. 
Never assume that a child doesn’t understand 
what is being said. Often he doesn’t, but it will 
help everyone concerned with that child not to 
talk about him in his presence as if he wasn’t 
there. The camper will know that he is the topic 
of conversation and this is totally demeaning. 

The opposite may happen if you have a 
camper that you think has quite a good basis of 
English. You may think that he understands 
more than he does. A good rule of thumb is to 
assume that he understands about 25% of what 
he appears to understand. Living in another 
language makes one a wonderful actor. Key 
phrases are easily learned to keep the other 

Cont’d. on Page 17 



13 



The three minute 

WORKOUT THAI COULD CHANGE 

YOUR LIFE. 


Vmmmmmmm 

g (Coupon writing time approximately 3 minutes) 

□ Mr. □ Mrs. 

□ Ms. □ Miss 

II 

□ Dr. 

□ None 


mm Yes, 1 want to join the PARTICIPaction NETWORK, 

H ‘the club without walls’ am) make personal fitness happen 
“ for me. 1 want to be part of a nation-wide group dedicated 

Namfl 





Address 





■ to a healthier more dynamic life. As a member, 1 will receive 
mi fitness educational literature, posters and booklets; a two- 
_ way communications channel to the nation’s top fitness 
H experts; share in new ideas to achieve ultimate fitness and 

■ reduce stress; get major discounts on high-quality, fitness 

Hit Y 



Prov. 


Postal Cods_ 





■■ education materials; involvement in nation-wide achieve- 

■ ment programs; access to the latest research results from 
™ government agencies and much more, all for a low annu3l 

■ membership fee of $12.50. 

■ Please find enclosed my cheque or money order. 


PARTICIPaction NETWORK 

80 Richmond Street, W., Suite 805, 

Toronto, Ontario 

M5H2A4 pamtapacnon^o 







"L’enfant qui ne parle pas anglais" 
De quelle fa^on peut-on raider? 

par Madelene Ferguson Allen, directeur, Camp Ouareau, Quebec 


Nous connaissons tous ce type d’enfants. Ils 
descendent de I’autobus, d’un air effrayd. Ceux- 
la memes qui restent immobiles pendant que les 
anciens amis s'accueillent. Ceux-I£ mimes qui 
se deplacent bien sagement, h^sitants, qui ne 
s’asseoient pas avant que les autres n r en pren- 
nent I’initiative. Ceux qui ont l‘air desempare ou 
s’asseoient la tite basse, tels des chiens que 
I’on a disputes. Ce sont eux, les enfants qui ne 
parlent pas anglais!! 

Nous avons tous regu des lettres de parents 
qui disirent que leur enfant vienne a notre camp 
pouryapprendre I’anglais. Les camps acceptent 
ces enfants; les integrent dans des groupes 
precis. “On avertit chaque conseiller de parler 
lentement, d’etre patient et de faire de son 
mieux." De quatre a huit semaines plus tard, si 
chacun fait tout ce qu’il lui est possible de faire, 
I’enfant sera envoye a la maison sachant parler 
anglais! Si seulement c'etait si simple! 

Dans beaucoup trop de cas, les enfants 
disavantages sont ceux qui ne parlent pas 
anglais. Les camps ne sont pas en harmonie 
avec ce segment croissant parmi nos campeurs. 
II existe des mithodes pour venir en aide a ces 
enfants, au meme titre qu’il existe des methodes 
pour venir en aide aux enfants en difficult^ 
d’apprentissage, a I’enfant qui provient d’une 
famille disunie, k I’enfant unique, k celui qui est 
pris avec des problemes et tout autre groupe 
d’enfants que nous prenons plaisir k ytiqueter. 

II est toujours plus facile de permettre a 
I’enfant qui ne parle pas anglais de passer du 
temps avec d’autres qui parlent sa langue (si 
c’est le cas), plutot que de I’encourager conti- 
nuellement a se joindre aux campeurs anglais 
qui ont regu une certaine preparation pour lui 
venir en aide. Cela devient plus facile encore 
d'avoir recours a un conseiller qui a deja suivi 
des cours de langues a [’university, qu’avoir 
recours a chaque adulte qui guide I’enfant pas a 
pas au meilleur de ses connaissances pour lui 
donner confiance et faire demarrer le processus 
dissimilation d’une autre langue; tout en s’as- 
surant que son £te soit parmi les meilleurs de sa 
vie. 

Dans “Hierarchy of needs”, Maslow spicifie 
que chaque besoin doit etre satisfait avant que 
Pesprit humain soit pret a poursuivre des buts 
plus sieves. Le sentiment de security est la pre¬ 
miere ytape k franchir. Comment un enfant peut- 
il arriver i se sentir en confiance quand tout ce 
qu’il entend n’est qu’un fouillis de sons? 

Les premieres initiatives pour lui souhaiter la 
bienvenue au camp commencent bien avant 
son arrivee. En tant que directeur, il serait bon de 
lui envoyer une lettre. Le recours a la traduction 
est peut-etre une solution couteuse, mais c’est 
un placement n£cessaire qui en vaut la peine. 
Dans vos universites locales, il y a surement des 
ytudiants qui seraient prets k vous rendre ce 
genre de services, moyennant quelques dollars. 
Donneza I’enfant le plus d’informations possible 


au sujet du camp. Remettez-lui Phoraire des 
activitgs journalieres afin qu’il sache a quoi 
s’attendre. Faites-lui savoir comment il aura k 
choisir ses activites. Faites-lui parvenir un lexi- 
que de quelques 50 mots de base pour le camp 
... des mots tels que rassemblement, insecti¬ 
cides, trempette matinale ... des mots qu’il 
n’apprendra sans doute jamais dans sa classe 
d’anglais. Incitez Penfant k vous repondre, quel- 
les que soient ses questions. Meme s’il n’icrit 
pas, il aura le sentiment que quelqu'un Pattend et 
se soucie vraiment de lui. 

Dis que I’enfant sera descendu de Pautobus, 
allez tout de suite a sa rencontre. Faites un effort 
et dites-lui: “Bonjour, c’est moi, la personne qui 
t’ai ecrit; nous sommes tenement heureux que tu 
sois avec nous.” II est possible que sa reaction 
soitde se mettrei pleurer k chaudes larmes. Ne 
vous alarmez pas! Dites-vous qu'au moins 
Penfant communique. Si cela se produisait, 
soyez a son ecoute, apres quoi, serrez-le bien 
fort dans vos bras. La communication non- 
verbale est le moyen le plus fondamental que 
vous possediez k cet instant precis et peut-etre 
bien dans d’autres occasions encore. Nous, 
Anglo-Saxons, ne sommes pas un peuple tres 
demonstrate, mais il serait diplace de s’attacher 
k de telles formalites. 

Ce ne serait pas une bonne id£e de placer 
Jean-Pierre (donnons-lui une identity dans 
une equipe, ou un des campeurs serait capable 
de parler couramment frangais (ou espagnol ou 
allemand). Comme un homme sur le point de se 
noyer s’agrippe k une bou6e de sauvetage, 
Jean-Pierre sentirait le beosin de s’accrocher k 
ce campeur. Laissez-lui I’opportunite de cher- 
cher quelqu’un qui parle frangais. Dans se 
recherche, il rencontrera beaucoup d’autres 
personnes et peu a peu il d^couvrira toute la 
magie d’un sourire. 

Durant le pry-camp, prenez le temps d’initier 
les membres de votre personnel aux problemes 
des campeurs qui ne parlent pas anglais. Faites 
en sorte qu’au moins un membre de I’Squipe soit 
prit a accorder k J.P. quelques minutes de son 
temps, chaque jour. Toutefois, ce ne devrait pas 
itre la responsability d’un seul conseiller. On 
devrait pouvoir retrouver une certaine uniformity 
dans les methodes utilisees et une continuity 
dans la communication entre les membres du 
personnel en ce qui a trait au travail de I’enfantet 
a ses r£ussites. 

On doit egalement comprendre les difficultes 
qu’eprouve I'enfant et pouvoir adapter les tech¬ 
niques qui pourraient I’aider a apprendre aussi 
rapidement et aussi facilement que possible. 
Les membres de votre personnel devront 
apprendre a 6viter certains piiges, dypendam- 
mentdu niveau de maturity etde I’expyrience de 
chacun. Ils devront yviter de hausser la voix. Ils 
peuvent supposer qu’il n’est pas aussi intelligent 
que les autres campeura de son age. Ils devront 
s’attendre a etre exaspyres k I'occasion de voir 


qu’il necomprend pas. II importe peu qu’ilsaient 
eu k lui rypeter cinq fois. II n’a pas compris 
durant ces cinq fois! On devrait leur rappeler 
que JEAN-PIERRE NY EST POUR RIEN! 

Le vieil adage “Les actions en disent plus que 
les mots” ne peut mieux convenir dans ce cas- 
ci. Les mots anglais ne represented pour lui 
que des sons. Au cours de I’yte, votre tache 
consistera a lui faire associer une dyfinition k 
ces sons, et c’est a force de rypetitions et de 
dymonstrations qu’ils prendront un sens. 

Un moniteur de natation pourrait s’y prendre 
de la fagon suivante; “Maintenant, les gargons, 
aujourd’hui nous allons pratiquer le PLON- 
GEON. Peter, aurais-tu I’obligeance de montrer 
k J.P. ce que PLONGER veut dire? J.P., Peter va 
PLONGER!” (Peter plonge; esperons qu’il ne 
fera pas un plat ventre, ga compliquerait les 
choses.) 'Trys bien, Peter! J.P., qu’est-ce que 
Peter a fait?” (A cet instant prycis, le conseiller 
peut se voir rycompense par une ryponse; 
sinon, il pourrait reprendre et rypeter: “Peter a 
PLONGE. Jean, pourrais-tu plonger maintenant? 
Robert, c’est k ton tour de PLONGER. J.P, 
pourrais-tu PLONGER maintenant?”. 

II serait surprenant de voir que J.P. n’ait pas 
fait de son mieux pour exycuter son meilleur 
plongeon. II n’aura pas compris tout ce qui s'est 
dit, mais il aura appris les mots essentiels et les 
associera a une action. 

Si chacun des conseillers procydait de la 
meme fagon, ils seraient surpris de constater 
avec quelle rapidite J.P. apprendrait le vocabu- 
laire de base. D’autant plus que J.P. apprendra 
assez vite a se servir de ces mots, ce qui lui 
donnera la confiance nycessaire pour faire ce 
qui est demandy; et il s’en verra rycompensy. 

Quelles que soient les circonstances, a moins 
d’etre pret a consacrer le temps et I’enseigne- 
ment nycessaires, un camp ne devrait pas 
accepter un enfant qui ne parle pas anglais, 
pour pry venir la peur qui s’empare de I’enfant 
qui, pour la premiere fois, n’arrive pas a com¬ 
prendre ce qui se passe autour de lui. La peur 
est une ymotion terrible pour un enfant, c’est 
pourquoi, a moins que Jean-Pierre ne se sente 
en sycurite du fait qu’on ait k coeur de I’aider, il 
deviendra terriblement, terriblement craintif. 

II ne faudrait pas vous attendre a ce qu’il fasse 
des progrys ytonnants. Quoique cela soit tou¬ 
jours possible, et ce serait formidable, mais les 
enfants apprennenty leur fagon eta leurpropre 
rythme. La crainte de faire des erreurs est tres 
ryelle; il est done essentiel que le conseiller 
consacre un peu de temps, au dybut du camp, k 
expliquer aux autres enfants comment ils peu- 
ventaider leur nouveau compagnon. Ils devront 
faire un veritable effort pour le compter parmi 
eux dans tout ce qu’ils entreprendront. Lorsqu’ils 
s’adressent a lui, ils devraient tenter de se servir 
d’expressions de base toujours associyes d’un 
geste. Ceci peut se faire de fagon tres naturelle. 
Les enfants peuvent faire de compryhensifs et 


15 


sympathiques professeurs, et aussi devenir tres 
cruels envers quelqu’un qu’ils jugent “different”. 
Jean-Pierre pourrait tres facilement s’imaginer 
que ses compagnons de groupe se moquent de 
lui pour toutes sortes de raisons. Tres souvent, 
ils ne se rendent pas compte de quelle fagon 
leurs gestes peuvent etre interprets par quel¬ 
qu’un qui ne comprend pas ce qu’ils se disent 
entre eux, et cela, le conseiller devrait le leur 
fiare remarquer avant meme que la situation ne 
se presente. Jean-Pierre a besoin de compa¬ 
gnons qui soient gentils, comprehensifs et 
patients. II n’a pas besoin d’un compagnon qui 
soit du genre taquin ou brute, pas plus qu’un 
conseiller n’a besoin d’un “campeur-problemes” 
dans cette tente. Ce dernier mettra toutes ses 
energies a former un veritable esprit de groupe, 
avec Jean-Pierre comme partie integrante du 
groupe. 

Bien souvent, un campeur qui a I’habitude de 
devenir un peu solitaire s’epanouira avec un 
plus faible que lui dans une equipe, et il prendra 
le campeur de langue seconde sous sa protec¬ 
tion. 

Cette situation-ci ne convient pas a un mem- 
bre du personnel inexperimente. A moins que la 
situation ne soit bien maitrisee, il est sansdoute 
preferable que Jean-Pierre n’ait pas de contacts 
frequents avec un membre du personnel qui 
parle couramment sa langue, ou alors Jean- 
Pierre deviendra extremement dependant et 
s’attendra a ce qu’on traduise pour lui. Dans ce 
genre de situation, un tout petit peu est mieux 
que beaucoup. Le conseiller se doit d’etre 
mature pour savoir quand intervenir ou deman- 
der de I’aide. Pour savoir jusqu’ou la theorie 
"nage ou coule” (sink or swim) peut aller et 
savoir quand un enfant descend pour la seconde 
fois (et non pas la troisieme). On doit alors avoir 
recours a la bouee de sauvetage: quelqu’un qui 
puisse parler la langue de I’enfant, meme si ce 
n’est pas toujours possible. Deja, nous avons eu 
au camp unejeune enfant japonaise qui etaitau 
Canada depuis quelques semains seulement. 
Dans ce cas tout particular, la seule bouee de 
sauvetage, c’est beaucoup d’amour, de ten- 
dresse et de comprehension. 

Qu’est-ce a dire de I’aide qu’on peut obtenir 
des campeurs? Qu’arrivera-t-il s’il n’y a pas de 
conseiller qui puisse parler la langue de I’enfant, 
mais qu’un campeur sache la parler? Dej&, on a 
du faire appel a un campeur plus age de langue 
maternelle espagnole, pour aider un jeune uni- 
lingue espagnol qui s’ennuyait desesperement. 
Combien de jeunes de 14 ans savent comment 
s’y prendre pour venir a bout de ce genre de 
situation? Nous avons tout rencontre des en- 
fants qui en ont aide d’autres. Cela peut etre une 
bonne chose, par contre, ce n’est pas la cas ici; 
le jeune campeur qui parle une langue quel- 
conque n’aidera pas un autre de lui-meme: il 
faudra le lui demander. Si vous placez un autre 
campeur dans ce type de situation, il aura 
besoin d’aide, d’appui, de conseils, de recon¬ 
naissance publique, et de remerciements pour 
ses efforts. 

II est tres important que votre personnel 
comprenne I’importance du facteur temps dans 
I’apprentissage d’une langue, et tenant compte 
de I’horaire de chaque jour et de la duree du 


camp. Durant les premiers jours, comme n’im- 
porte quel nouveau campeur, Jean-Pierre utili¬ 
ses toutes ses energies seulement a s’habituer 
a la routine et a un nouveau mode de vie. Le 
conseiller peut aider Jean-Pierre a etablir son 
horaire et a I’afficher pres du lit. A mesure que 
les activites se seront deroulees, il sera a meme 
de les ecrire en frangais. L’heure du coucher est 
un temps propice & cette activity ga lui permet 
de s’impliquer dans cette periode de tranquilite 
si importante au campeur. A I’approche du 
coucher, son conseiller peut remarquer que J-P 
se retire. II devrait en etre averti pour ne pas qu’il 
s’inquiete si cela se produisait. II lui faut com- 
prendre que le gargon est fatigue, il est rendu a 
un point ou il ne plus fournir aucun effort. 
L’apprentissage d’une langue etrangere est vrai- 
ment epuisant. C’est une forme de fatigue difficile 
a decrire qui attaque le corps, I’ame, de meme 
que le cerveau. 

Dans ces moments-la, le conseiller ne devrait 
pas obliger I’enfant a entamer une conversation. 
Laissez-le libre de lire ou d’ecrire une lettre, ou 
d’ecouter calmement ce qui se passe autour de 
lui. Cependant, on ne devrait pas negliger 
I’enfant quand vient le temps de le border. 

Meme si Jean-Pierre ne saisit pas tous les 
mots que son conseiller lui dit, il saura reconnai- 
tre son ton de voix agreable, le sentiment 
familier d’un adulte bien intentionne qui lui 
ramene les couvertures jusqu’au menton. Ce 
genre de gestes lui procureront un sentiment de 


bien-etre et le courage d’affronter une journee. 

Certains enfants feront du progres et, apres 
dix jours au camp, ils regresseront de fagon 
soudaine, pour devenir silencieux et hesistants. 
Ce sont-la des consequences bien connues de 
I’immersion. L’enfant est rendu a un stade ou il 
commence a saisir le sens de ce fouillis de 
sons. II a cesse d’essayer de traduire chaque 
mot et, face a toute I’experience, il se sent reelle- 
ment bien. Et puis, soudainement, il se rend 
compte qu’il ne peut se rappeler ce qui vient de 
se dire, alors il devient extremement frustre. 
Pour comprendre ce phenomene, imaginez- 
vous conduisant en pleine tempete de neige. 
Vous vous concentrez si intensement pour 
demeurer sur la route que vous n’avez pas porte 
attention aux points de repere que vous venez 
de passer, ou quelle distance vous avez par- 
courue, ou depuis combien de temps vous 
conduisez. Votre esprit est totalement accapare 
par la tache. Le meme phenomene se produit ici 
dans le cas de la personne qui est en immer¬ 
sion. L’enfant croira qu’il comprend les regies 
du jeu, mais il se rendra compte qu'a force de se 
concentrer pour comprendre les mots, il en a 
oublie I’idee principale. Quand cela arrive, I’en- 
fant se decourage; toutefois, cedur moment 
viendra a passer et on ne peut faire beaucoup 
plus que lui donner constamment des renforce- 
ments et de I'encouragement. Jean-Pierre aura 
besoin qu’on lui redise qu’il fait du progres. 



16 


CCA File Photo 


Une bonne fagon de lui rappeler ses progres 
de chaque jour serait de leur faire faire un 
lexique pour le camp. Pour cette activite, I’heure 
du repos est I’occasion toute designee; reunis 
ensemble, les enfants peuvent travailler a un 
meme projet. Chaque fois que J-P apprend de 
nouveaux mots, il peut les representer par des 
dessins et y faire correspondre les mots anglais. 
En revanche, laissez-lui la chance de montrer 
aux autres les equivalents frangais, lesquels 
sont tout aussi importants. Demandez aux en¬ 
fants de dessiner des mots qu’ils croient que 
J-P connait bien. II est possible que Jean-Pierre 
lui-meme croie ne pas les connaitre, mais, a la 
vue des dessins, les mots lui viendront a I’esprit 
et il realisera qu’il en savait plus qu'il ne le 
croyait. Ces pages peuvent decorer les murs 
des locaux du camp ou etre places dans un 
cartable. Cette fagon de faire fonctionne avec 
succes, peu importe que I’enfant ait 8 ou 15 ans. 

Une autre reaction, bien qu’assez rare mais 
qui peut se produire specialement chez un plus 
jeune enfant, c’est la peur irrationnelle de perdre 
sa propre langue. II ira meme jusqu’a craindre 
que ses parents ne le comprennent plus a son 
retour a la maison. C’est une peur que I’enfant 
n’arrivera pas a exprimer, meme dans sa propre 
langue, mais qui doit etre prise en consideration 
si une regression importante de I’apprentissage 
de la langue etrangere accompagne les symp- 


tomes de nostalgie de la famille. Si cette regres¬ 
sion persiste apres 4 ou 5 jours, il est primordial 
que quelqu’un qui parle sa langue le rassure. Si 
toutefois personne au camp n’etait apte a le 
faire, il faudraittelephonera la maison et laisser 
I’enfant parler a ses parents, apres leur avoir 
explique la situation. Bien entendu, ceci n’est 
possible que dans le cas ou les parents parlent 
anglais. Dans le cas contraire, il serait sans 
doute mieux de tenter de regler la situation sur 
place, avec I’aide des renforcements des autres 
conseillers. 

Avertissez votre personnel que la compre¬ 
hension vient bien avant I’aptitude a parler. 
N’assumez jamais qu’un enfant n’a pas compris 
ce qui a ete dit. Bien souvent, il n’a en effet pas 
compris. mais il est preferable pour les conseil¬ 
lers responsables de cet enfant de ne pas parler 
de lui en sa presence en faisant comme s’il 
n’etait pas la. Le campeur, lui, le sent, il sait qu’il 
est le point de mire, et il se sent deprecie. 

Le contraire peut survenir dans le cas d’un 
campeur dont vous croyez qu’il possede une 
assez bonne connaissance de base de I’anglais. 
II est possible que vous vous imaginez qu’il 
comprend la langue plus qu’il ne la parle. En 
regie generate, n’assumez jamais qu’il com¬ 
prend plus de 25% de ce qu’il semble com- 
prendre. Le fait de vivre dans une autre langue 
peut faire de vous un merveilleux acteur. Les 
phrases cle s’apprennent facilement et c’est un 


bon moyen de faire parler I’autre interlocuteur, si 
Ton ne veut pas faire (’effort de parler soi-meme. 

Les conversations & batons rompus sont tres 
differentes des activites de classe ou des situa¬ 
tions ou I’enfant connait les sujets de conversa¬ 
tion. Dans une situation ou les sujets changent 
souvent, il serait bon que le conseiller se 
penche discretement vers le campeur et lui 
dise: “Nous parlons de Cela permettra au 
campeur de bien suivre les sujets de conversa¬ 
tion et lui evitera de se sentir gene apres avoir 
exprime un commentaire, qu’il aurait d’ailleurs 
formule dans sa tete pendant 2 ou 3 minutes, 
lequel commentaire n’a rien a voir avec le sujet 
en cours. 

Apprendre une langue n’est pas une sinecure, 
quelle que soit la methode utilisee, et pour 
certains enfants, un camp n’est pas un bon 
endroit. II s’agit des enfants qui auraient de la 
difficulty a s’adapter au camp, meme s’ils par- 
laient anglais. D’autre part, pour bien d’autres 
enfants, un camp est en general un des meilleurs 
endroits au monde. L’enfant y fait des activites 
qu’il aime, il est entoure d’autres enfants. et le 
vocabulaire se rapportant au camp est restreint. 

Si Ton a des qualites de chef et I’attitude qui 
convient, compter un enfant d’une autre langue 
au sein de son equipe peut s'averer une expe¬ 
rience enlevante pour toutes les personnes 
concernees. 


Cont’d. from Page 11 

itself to the joie de vivre and spirit of the camp. 
What about flexibility with the staff members? 
Are we ready and willing to make allowances 
when unscheduled changes are needed or are 
we steadfast and unmoving? Many times, the 
humanistic approach is the best approach. If we 
can empathize with our colleagues, we can 
ensure ourselves of a more positive attitude and 
a brighter approach to camp difficulties. A 
flexible team is a plus in any camp. 

Camp is a challenge for us all. It gives each 
and every participant the opportunity to learn, to 
grow and to really enjoy the out of doors. Some 
of the activities- many of the friends will provide 
memories of a happy time - an escape - for 
years to come. In fact, lots of former campers will 
stay in touch with each other as well as with the 
camp itself. And, isn’t that what camp is all 
about? The friendships, the happy timesand the 
memories stay with us for a lifetime. If we are to 
create an atmosphere of happy, peaceful co- 
existance for everyone throughout the summer 
camp session, we must be well prepared, pro¬ 
vide fun activities, create and develop new 
projects, encourage the participation of new 
staff and counsellors, make the most of those 
magic moments of camping and above all, stay 
flexible. If we can aspire to all this, we will be 
able to predict a happy, safe and productive 
summer. Let the good times roll! Don’t balk. 


o 



leKBHn 


Cont’d. from Page 13 

person talking, for that is so much easier than 
having to speak yourself. 

Casual conversations are very different from 
activity class or from situations where the child 
knows the topic of conversation. In a situation 
where topics switch frequently it is a good idea 
for the counsellor just to quietly lean over and 
say to the camper, “we are talking about...”. This 
will give the camper the link between one 
conversation change and another and save him 
the embarrassment of making a comment (which 
he has been forming in his mind for two or three 
minutes) which now has nothing to do with the 
conversation of the moment. 

Learning a language is not easy by any 
means and for some children camp is not the 
place to do it. These are the children who would 
have difficulty adapting to camp even if they 
spoke English. On the other hand, camp is 
usually one of the best places in the world. The 
child is doing activities which he enjoys, he is 
with other children and the vocabulary in a 
camp setting is limited. With the right leadership 
and attitude having a child of another language 
in a cabin group can be a very exciting exper¬ 
ience for all concerned. 


17 


Dispose of camp food 
service problems with 

royal Chinet 

disposable plates and bowls 

Strong, attractive Royal CHINET food service products help you ... 

• DISPOSE OF DISHWASHING COSTS 

Cut the expense of installing, maintaining and manning equipment, 
that is used only a few months of the year. 

• DISPOSE OF BREAKAGE 

Save yourself the trouble and expense of buying matching replace¬ 
ments for pieces that crack, chip and shatter. 

• DISPOSE OF FOOD WASTE 

You get exact portion control with Royal CHINET’s wide range of 
sizes in regular and compartmented designs. 

• DISPOSE OF GERM COLLECTORS 

Royal CHINET products are sterilized when manufactured and 
packaged. And there's never a germ-collecting chip, crack or 
poorly washed dish. 

• DISPOSE OF IRRITATING NOISE 

Disposable service is silent service. Meals are relaxed without the 
clatter and crash of china or metal. 

ENVIRONMENTAL ADVANTAGES, TOO 

All good campers want to protect the environment. Royal CHINET prod¬ 
ucts are manufactured from a renewable resource. What’s more, they’re 
biodegradable ... molded of natural wood fibres that burn readily with 
little smoke. Even if discarded out-of-doors, Royal CHINET quickly de¬ 
composes in the earth. 

Get the full particulars now. Mail this coupon today. 



CKF Inc. „ „„ 

HANTSPORT, NOVA SCOTIA, BOP IPO 


Please provide me with details of the variety and costs of Royal 
CHINET food service products. 




PROV. 













THE LAST WORD! 


CAMPING... 

Is it better to give people what they want or 
what’s good for them? And who decides what’s 
“good” for whom? Should people be agitated 
and challenged into examining their “sacred 
cows" and realizing that much of our learning 
has led us down the garden path? 

A case in point: I recently taught an extremely 
bright woman, mid 30’s, who owns her own pre¬ 
school; it is an extremely successful operation 
employing around 25 people and serving over 
100 pre-schoolers at various times during the 
day! This woman enrolled in my course The 
Psychology of Gender and Sexuality; she truly 
enjoyed learning as long as learning nourished 
the sunny side of life. But real life is not all sunny 
and if we continually ignore those areas which 
expose the darker and realistic propensities we 
all have to act out of ignorance and fear, then 
through our silence in education we reinforce 
the worst kind of optimistic meliorism in which 
people believe and examine the world only 
through rose-coloured glasses. And as you 
know, such glasses make the world look fantas¬ 
tic but they distort REALITY! Silence, in terms of 
communication, builds walls and walls, to me, 
symbolize failure; bridges symbolize links and 
understanding. 

In any case, Miss Schmidt (my pre-school 
owner), constantly challenged everything I 
taught whether it was hermaphroditism, trans¬ 
sexualism, sexual assault, pornography, human 
sexual response, homosexuality, media exploita¬ 
tion - it didn’t matter what the subject area was! 
However, Miss Schmidt never questioned the 
VALIDITY of what I was saying (she always 
acknowledged my facts and figures) but rather 
the WHY behind teaching material that to me 
(indeed to many of us) was deeply disturbing 
and upsetting. In our 42 hour course, I must have 
heard these lines a dozen times: “Isn’t it better 
for us NOT to know?" "Sure it’s true, but so 
what? Life seemed so much simplierand easier 
before ..." “You know, rats exist in a sewer, too - 
why don’t we invite one as a guest speaker?" 
(class laughter). 

These queries are as genuine as they are 
disturbing! Dr. Bruno Bettleheim (The Uses of 
Enchantment) says that it starts early in life as 
we condition children to be “good" and not 
“bad". Children grow up unrealistically, he says, 
believing only in the sunny side of things - but 
deep down they know real life is not sunny and 
even when they are “acting good” they would 
often prefer to "acting bad". This tends to make 
children monsters in their own eyes if we don’t 
allow them the realistic avenues to deal with the 
dark side of life. As adults, we become stuck 
forever in DENIAL, psychologically clinging to 
our parents’ and society’s voices saying “every¬ 
thing is beautiful and sunny!" We read the news¬ 
paper and say “That can’t be happening" and 
we go about our daily business as if we’d just 
read a Grimm’s Fairy Tale! Children believe if 
they pull the covers over their head, the thunder¬ 
storm cannot hurt them and it will go away. Can 
you see how Miss Schmidt, and indeed all of us 


at times, symbolically do that by denying reality 
and believing that ignorance is truly bliss! Real 
life, especially to a person working in a people- 
profession, cannot work that way because 
YOUR IGNORANCE IS GOING TO HARM 
OTHER PEOPLE! Miss Schmidt learned this 
painfully and beautifully over the duration of the 
semester; she was my challenge and now she’s 
my model of how education can work ... and 
does work. She now says “if anyone had told me 
where I'd be and how I’d feel at the end of this 
course, I never would have walked through that 
door." “I’m a different person ... totally." 

In Plato’s Republic, in the story of Ion, a man 
(named Ion) goes around professing loudly and 
openly that Homer is the greatest poet of all time. 
Ion has studied Homer and knows every word 
that Homer has written; however, Ion has not 
studied anyone else! Socrates soon approaches 
Ion who is proclaiming Homer’s greatness and 
Socrates asks Ion to recite some Hesiod for the 
group. Ion, of course, can’t but continues to say 
that Homer is the greatest, whereupon Socrates 
teaches Ion the important lesson of superficiality 
and learning. It is foolish to make a qualitative 
comparison without adequate knowledge and 
information. To those of us in the field of psycho¬ 
logy (and no doubt to many of you who have met 
this type of person) it is always wise to caution 
our first-year students not to attempt to theorize, 
analyse and criticize with the minimal amount of 
knowledge that one gets from Introductory 
Psychology - yet, quite often it is exactly that 
individual with minimal knowledge who has 
everything figured out and everyone perfectly 
analysed (Freudian, of course)! Wisdom, it is 
said, is the application of knowledge; it also 
seems that the more one knows, the more one 
realizes how much there is to know. Knowledge 


can be quite a humbling experience! The more I 
examine human behaviour, the more complex it 
seems to be. Very few issues are simplistic and 
most social issues overlap; co-relations exist 
between euthanasia and abortion, pro-life and 
capital punishment, teenage pregnancy and 
lack of sex knowledge and information, porn¬ 
ography and sexual assault, alienation and 
teenage suicide, religious commitment and con¬ 
traception, the double standard and sexual 
assault, the double standard and prostitution, 
low self-esteem and drug abuse, murder and 
gun control, television advertising and sexually 
transmitted diseases, unwanted children and 
psychopathology etc. etc. It would take pages 
and pages but I would love to draw the inter¬ 
connections of how complex social issues 
impact on each other. It’s too facile and naive to 
think that ANY of these issues exists in our 
society isolated and independant of other fac¬ 
tors; also, legislation is usually never an answer 
but a bandaid which rarely touches the cause of 
a problem. Indeed, most social scientists and an 
increasing number of bureaucrats are becoming 
aware of the massive efforts and energy needed 
to PREVENT the many social problems and 
difficulties we confront daily. My message to all 
of us dealing with people (and particularly 
where children are concerned) is to grow in¬ 
creasingly aware of the gray areas and not to 
view anything in terms of black or white only; 
also, to further study, examine, interview and 
continually question until the inter-relationships 
become more apparent and our goals toward 
PREVENTION become more focused and crys- 
talized! Far more eloquent are the words of 
Alexander Pope: 

A little learning is a dangerous thing; 

Drink deep, or taste not the Pierian Spring; 

There shallow draughts intoxicate the brain, 

And drinking largely sobers us again. 



19 


Jay Haddad 




Canadian camping association 
association dcs camps du Canada 


SUITE 2 1806 AVENUE ROAD 
TORONTO ONTARIO M5M 321 

VOL. 37 NO. 2 
SUMMER 1385 
ISSN 008-3119 


SUBSCRIPTION RATE SPECIAL!!! 

sSSIS 

members of V° ur Provincial camping association. We feel it will be an investment well worth U 
and to this end we would like to offer the following special rate: 

After the first two full-rate subscriptions at $6.00/year, we will offer any additional one-year subscriptions at only $4 00/vear Please act now and 
save Subscribe your staff to Canadian Camping and receive four issues a year: interviews, editorials, advice 

articles and much, much more.. .your staff will thank you, your campers will benefit! ' sroupoynamicsexercises, 


PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY 
Name__ 

Address___ 

City— -Province_Postal Code. 


PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY 

Name___ 

Address_ 

City-Province_Postal Code. 


PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY 

Name_ 

Address__ 

City— -Province_Postal Code. 

PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY 

Name.__ 

Address__ 

City--— Province_Postal Code. 

PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY 

Name____ 

Address____ 

City-Province_Postal Code_ 


PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY 

Name_ 

Address__ 

City-- Province_Postal Code. 

PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY 
Name_ 

Add ress__ 

City-Province_Postal Code. 

PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY 

Name_ 

Address._ 

City-Province_Postal Code_ 


Enclosed, please find a cheque for $__.00 to cover 

Canadian Camping Association. 


annual subscriptions to Canadian Camping. Make cheques payable to the 


20 







