Canadian 


nov. 1975 


comping 


Without any doubt, the mail strike has brought its hardships and "Canadian Camping" is no exception. 
Unfortunately, when the time for typesetting arrived, we were lacking in advertisements and editorial 
content which included resumes in French. Recognizing we had a definite commitment to our reading 
public, the decision was made to publish a four page Newsletter. We trust our readers will understand the 
difficulty and accept this publication. 

Helen E. Stewart, Editor 


<5 


o* 


heard? do 








o* 


4 


% 


Our warm thanks to Jocelyn Palm. Managing 
Director of “Canadian Camping ”, for providing us 
with the recent news from the Provinces. ★ The C.C.A. 

Executive and Provincial Representatives met recently in 
Ottawa for their fall meeting. Word comes from B.C. that Rick 
Ryan, former President of the BCCA, has moved to Montreal to become 
Executive Director of Boys’ Clubs of Canada. John Hasell, Executive Director of 
Outward Bound, is now the President of BCCA... A Camp Directors’ Workshop will 
be held November 21-23 and the Annual Meeting in January. . . A meeting of the BCCA will 
be held in conjunction with the B.C. Recreation Association. This is one way of attempting to 
interlock the interests of the two groups and to share knowledge amongst members of both groups... ^ 

The 1977 Annual Meeting of CCA is planned for April 28-30 in Prince Geo'rge, B.C. ★ And from Alberta. . . 
The ACA plans a Conference, January 21-25. at the Yamnuska Centre, the new YMCA training camp about 25 miles 


< 5 * 


from Banff. The CCA Executive will 
meet at the same time and share in the 
leadership to the Conference. . . One 
major effort of ACA in ’75 was their 
accreditation program with over 60 
camps being visited. ★ The SCA was 
very much involved in the planning 
and securing of resource leaders for the 
National Outdoor and Environmental 
Education Conference held October 1-5 
at Fort Qu’Appelle. It was felt that 
camping people made a significant im¬ 
pact and contribution to the Confer¬ 
ence. . . A fall Workshop is planned for 
November 15 to focus upon winter 
camping. * The MCA conducted a new 
scheme in youth leadership develop¬ 
ment last summer. Approximately 50 


young people participated in the train¬ 
ing. . . Monthly meetings are being 
planned by the MCA in ’76 and will be 
conducted as mini camp directors’ 
seminars. ★ A Leadership Development 
Seminar will be held by the OCA, 
November 7-9, at Muskoka Sands in 
Gravenhurst. Leadership for the Semi¬ 
nar will come from Don Ehat and a 
team of OCA members... The ’76 OCA 
Conference is planned for February 
26-29 at The Inn on the Park in 
Toronto. * Mr. Gil Cardinal is the new 
dynamic Executive Director of the 
ACQ-QCA. . . A pilot project is now 
in progress with a new slant on the 
training of counsellors. Selected coun¬ 
sellors from Quebec Camps are given a 


course at a central location on the 
understanding that these people will 
return to their own camps and train 
their camp staff. . . The 1976 Annual 
Meeting of CCA will be held in Quebec 
City, April 28-30, in conjunction with 
a French Language Conference entitled 
“Activite Educative du Camp de Va- 
cances — Educational Activity of Camp¬ 
ing”. ★ Interesting news from New¬ 
foundland. . . The NLCA plans a 
November Meeting on the subject of 
evaluation of camp programs. It is a 
noteworthy fact that the NLCA Camps 
were oversubscribed last summer. Fur¬ 
ther, 99% of the camps in Newfound¬ 
land and Labrador are members of the 
NLCA. ★ All for now. 

—Helen E. Stewart 





Nalurecraft 

Collectibles 

—by Ottelyn Addison 

Educational Interpreter , Metro-Toronto Conservation Authority 


If you want to inspire real creativity in your crafts at 
camp why not disregard the run-of-the-mill ready-made 
craft materials and replace them with natural “collectibles”. 
Make a list of everything you can obtain and would like to 
use if (and I mean a big “if’) none of them will deplete the 
environment. There are many things you can find. This is 
the time to cut a three-inch limb of any type tree provided 
it is from family property because by next summer the 
wood will be dry and ready to be cut in narrow diagonal 
strips. The campers can sand and polish the wood and make 
either name tags or pins. 

When you are out for a walk it is sometimes surprising 
how many loose objects can be picked up and put to use 
an odd-shaped stone, a crooked piece of weathered wood 
or a feather that a bird has dropped while moulting. This is 
an abundant year for cones; add fruit pits, nuts and seeds 
to the collection. Egg cartons are ideal for keeping each 
type of seed together and everything will be ready if and 
when you plan to make a seed mosaic. Just open the boxes 
and make your choice. 

Can you identify most of the conifers? What ones are 
more numerous in your camp vicinity? Why not combine a 
tree identification lesson with the campers collecting a few 
cones themselves? The smaller cones from hemlock and 
tamarack trees are difficult to collect. A large sack of any 
kind of cone can be purchased at a cost of S2.00 (if infla¬ 
tion hasn’t hit that product too) from the Ministry of 
Natural Resources Seed Extraction Plant, Angus, Ontario. 
A smaller child can achieve a real feeling of accomplishment 
by finishing a necklace of cones. A needle, threaded with 
nylon fishing line, is easily pushed through either a hemlock 
or larch (tamarack) cone. 

Acorns, chestnuts, basswood nuts and beech nuts should 
be harvested this fall. If you intend to make use of the 
whole acorn (the cap is apt to separate from the nut as it 
dries) it might be wise to pry off the cap and glue it on 
before it dries. The husks of the beech nuts are particularly 
attractive in designs and you can have the fun of eating the 
nutmeat part as a bonus. 

Wherever you plan to go be certain that you have per¬ 
mission from the landowner — even an abandoned field 
belongs to someone, and always remember there is no 
picking of any sort in Conservation Areas or Provincial 
Parks. 1 am sure if you explain to a landowner that you 
only intend to pick “dime-a-dozen” (weeds) plants he wont 


object. Goldenrod, grasses, milkweed pods are a few that 
come under this category. 

While you are out on your jaunts do take time to be¬ 
come acclimatized to that special habitat. Look, listen and 
smell and make note of any interesting things that you see. 
You might even be fortunate enough to discover a gold¬ 
finch’s nest, lined with thistle down and filled with half- 
grown fledglings. (They are late nesters.) 

Are you beginning to wonder if you will ever find out 
the name of every plant you collect? That part isn’t abso¬ 
lutely necessary but it is iir*:ortant to note that dry-habitat 
plants always grow together. You might have discovered 
that most of the weed-type plants were brought from the 
Old World by the early immigrants mostly for their medi¬ 
cinal qualities. For instance, the nondescript Boneset was 
the plant that supposedly saved the lives of hundreds of 
early settlers. Brew, made from the dried leaves and flowers, 
gave them strength during the long winter months. 

Wetlands, if possible, are more interesting. Compare the 
two habitats and make a mental note of the differences. It 
is here that you will be able to plan camp expeditions 
because many of the sedges and bulrushes can be harvested 
in early July. Cattails should be picked when the seed-head 
is pencil slim but do not let your campers become overly 
enthusiastic only take what you actually can use - 
remember other people also want to look and admire 
them too. 

A wetland expedition is more exciting if it is done in the 
morning before the sunlight has dried the dew. You will be 
able to see myriads of cobwebs dotted with miniature 
jewels. (The sun, shining on the dew droplets produces 
every rainbow hue.) Mark any free cobwebs (only attached 
by the main guide-lines and not near any other shrubbery) 
and go back to make a cobweb picture. First, gently spray 
the web with any colour of paint on each side, keeping a 
newspaper behind so the colour wont paint background 
leaves. You will need four hands while you are carefully 
putting a plain sheet of coloured paper closely behind the 
web and gently “glue” the web to the paper with clear 
spray. 

Plaster casts of animal tracks is an exciting project that 
can be taken home and long remembered as one of the 
highlight activities at camp. 

Collecting pebbles of all colours and spraying them with 
lacquer is another excellent take-home craft. 






All ages get interested in making “doo¬ 
dads” from goldenrod galls. When you are 
looking for the bulges or galls on the 
goldenrod stem try to find a few that 
have double galls. Since there is not 
enough space to tell you how and why 
these are formed, why not look up the 
answer yourself. From the double ones 
you can make birds or dress up “people”. 
It is very easy to make a fanner and his 
straw hat can come from a thistle seed 
head after the down is removed. The 
single galls, glued together, make very 
realistic looking moth larva. The ideas 
can be endless. 

The instructors, themselves, may want 
to do some more time-taking and meticul¬ 
ous work. If you are pressing any coloured 
plant it is essential to change your news¬ 
papers at least twice for the first two 
days. I use one sheet, folded in half, with 
either felt building paper or, better still, half-inch polifoam 
cut to the same size for one side and corrugated paper for 
the other side of the folded newspaper. Repeat for each 
specimen and put a weight on top. Straight plants, such as 
grasses, buttercups and Queen Anne’s Lace can be used 



Goldenrod 



more artistically if you curve the stems while still pliable. 
It is almost impossible to keep the “blues” because the 
pigment is water-soluble. Yellows are excellent. Both be¬ 
cause ferns are not “dime-a-dozen” and because the green 
fades rapidly even after careful pressing, I do not use 
them. Coloured leaves need paper changes three times in 
the first day or two. When collecting leaves look for a 
cluster from a small sapling tree and bend the stems until 
the result is more attractive. Now the tedious part is over 



and I hope the colours are good. Place mats, hasti-notes 
and even lampshades can be decorated. Clear contact paper 
can be used to cover your arrangement. 

Plants that are to be used in plant printing do not need 
the same care because you will be primarily interested in 
outline design. Your equipment does not need to be exten¬ 
sive. Sensitized printing paper can be obtained from any 
drafting or architect’s office and also the “developer” 
whether it is a liquid method (which is safer) or by using 
24% ammonia. An old picture frame makes an excellent 
frame. Just place your plants into a desired design, keeping 
in mind that the result will be turn-about-face on the glass. 
Put your paper, sensitized side down, on top of your 
arrangement and then the backing of either wood or card¬ 
board. Hold firmly and expose it to sunlight. As soon as 
the paper turns white, take it out and develop it. I am sure 
you will be so enthusiastic with the result that you will 
want to create more and more designs. If you are doing it 
with younger campers it is less frustrating for them if you 
have them use single specimens. 

For your own winter decoration you could put a single 
milkweed stalk in a bottle. When the seed and fluff begin 
to look as if they will take off give it a whiff of hair spray 
and it will remain in a state of suspension for weeks. 
Another “conversation piece” is a dried grey-green rosette 
(first year’s growth) of the mullein. Cut the stem root off 
at the base of the leaves, place it on top of a juice can, 
gently shaping the leaves each day until it is dry. 

Most of all have fun outdoors and at the same time 
learn more about the world around you, always keeping in 
mind that you are going to do your part to keep our wild 
areas natural-looking for years to come. 


Illustrations courtesy “The Young Naturalist", February 1965 issue. 








Children and the Outdoors 


—by John Pratt 

Director , Durham Region Board of Education's Outdoor Education Program , Camp Samac. 


What is Outdoor Education? What does it have to do 
with camping? Outdoor Education is giving children first¬ 
hand learning experiences using the great outdoors as a 
classroom. It involves sports activities, such as hiking and 
canoeing, field studies, such as wood lot or water pollution 
investigations, conservation activities, and survival training. 
School curriculum need not be neglected. Subjects can be 
taught more effectively and even enriched by outdoor 
experiences. Camp songs, art utilizing natural materials, 
creative writing, practical mathematics, geography, and 
environmental science in the outdoors can arouse the 
interest of many students who are not easily motivated in 
the classroom. 



The author, right centre, building a winter shelter onto a fallen 
tree root. 


Lasting interests may result in improved physical fitness, 
greater curiosity and general awareness of the environment 
and a deeper concern for its protection. 

Not to be underrated is the incidental learning from 
sharing experiences and working together. 

A much greater understanding of oneself and one’s 
fellows can be achieved as a result of experiences in the 
outdoors. Better relations between teachers and students 
and among students themselves are inevitable. 

While day excursions, either singly or in a series, can 
accomplish a great deal, I believe that there is no substitute 
for a week-long camp experience. Students can be immersed 
in a total outdoors situation from dawn to dusk. This 
allows attitudes and not just skills to be developed. Thus 
camping experience facilitates a greater use of the outdoors 
as a teaching resource as well as being a healthy recreational 
pursuit in its own right. 


Editor's Note: As a result of many such comments, 
Canadian Camping indeed recognizes the worth of Outdoor 
Education and its year round aspects and has decided to 
feature an article on this important subject in each issue of 
the magazine. This column will appear in the National 
Directory Issue. 


CAMP BOARDS 

Married Man with extensive youth work experience desires 
to become involved in the camping field or related activities 
on a full time professional basis. Presently employed by a 
youth guidance agency. 

Write: John A. McIntosh, 500 Springbrook Avenue, R.R.1, 
Ancaster, Ontario L9G 3K9 


"HEBERTISME" 

a new booklet written by Claude Cousineau and published 
by the Ontario Ministry of Culture and Recreation. 50 cents 
each from: 

Ontario Government Publications Service 
3 B-7 Macdonald Block 
Queen's Park, Toronto, Ontario 





