
In¬ 


official Publication of the Canadian Camping Association 


FALL 1968 






* •. u 0 * : 1 tH puottiioiu 

‘ • iS puotiqoTH £61 

• p • g • EJ[? pUB * J W 

VOVGTIHOIH 




/ '>■: 



SEASONS 


GREETINGS 


from 


OIBHONS FOODS LIMITED 

49 ADVANCE ROAD TELEPHONE 239-1421 

TORONTO 18, CANADA 





Vol. 21 


No. 1 


FALL, 1968 


CONTENTS 


Insurance Coverage . Ron Poole 

Have You Stored This One . E. Flynn 

Muskrat With A Mission . Ross Cumming 

How Do I Budget My Time . May Brown 

Reports .- .Kirk Wipper 

Communication is the Key . Bruno Morawetz 

Communication Within a Camp . Ann Prewitt 


4 
8 
10 
1 I 
IS 

14 

15 


CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

301 Vaughan Street. Winnipeg 2, Man. 

Honorary President — Miss Mary S. Edgar 
President — Douglas McEwen, 301 Vaughan Street, Winnipeg 2, Manitoba. 

1st Vice-President — Gordon Stewart, 217 Edmonton Street, Winnipeg 2, Manitoba. 
2nd Vice-President- Mrs. Sally Schwetz, 251 Wildwood Park, Winnipeg, Manitoba. 
Secretary — Miss Marion Searles, 25 Osborne Street, Winnipeg, Manitoba. 

Executive Secretary — Mrs. Nancy McGregor, 301 Vaughan St., Winnipeg, Manitoba. 
Treasurer — Miss Phyllis Trotter, c/o Winnipeg YWCA, Webb Place, Winnipeg, Man. 
Publisher - Mrs. G. W. Flynn 75 Crescent Road, Apt. 8, Toronto 5, Ontario. 

Editor — Mrs. A. E. Harshaw, 35 Thorncliffr Park, Apt. 704, Toronto 17, Ontario. 

Editorial Committee: Don Groff, Chairman, Joyce Bertram, Eanswythe Flynn, 

Margaret Govan, Jean Darrach, Jocelyn Palm, John Latimer, Ann Prewitt, 
Bruno Morawetz, Jack Pearse, Kirk Wipper, Ted Yard. 

******* 

PROVINCIAL OFFICES 

B.C. Camping Association — 616 E. Cordova Street, Vancouver 4, B.C. 

Alberta Camping Association — 540 - 49th Ave. S.W.. Calgary, Alberta. 

Saskatchewan Camping Association — c/o Y.W.C.A., Lome St., Regina, Sask. 
Manitoba Camping Association — 251 Wildwood Park, Winnipeg 19, Manitoba. 

Eastern Ontario Camping Conference — 2131 Neepawa, Avenue, Ottawa 13, Ontario. 
Ontario Camping Association — 501 Yonge Street, Suite 13, Toronto 5, Ontario. 
Quebec Camping Association — 2233 Belgrave Ave., Montreal 28, Quebec. 

Nova Scotia Camping Association — P.O. Box 1622, Halifax, N.S. 


“CANADIAN CAMPING" IS PUBLISHED FOUR TIMES A YEAR BY TOWN TALK PUBLICATIONS, FOR 
THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION. SUBSCRIPTION RATES: MEMBERSHIP IN THE CANADIAN CAMP¬ 
ING ASSOCIATION INCLUDES “CANADIAN CAMPING"; TO NON-MEMBERS, 85 CENTS PER COPY; $3.00 
PER YEAR; $8.00 PER THREE YEARS. AUTHORIZED AS SECOND CLASS MAIL. POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT, 
OTTAWA. ONT.. AND FOR PAYMENT OF POSTAGE IN CASH. 


Toronto, Canada, Fall 1968 


3 






















INSURANCE COVERAGE 


by Ron Poole 

Tomenson Saunders Ltd., Toronto. 


Risk Management and Insurance 

In insurance, as in most areas of life 
to-day, we are confronted with a 
“basic package” as a point of departure. 
The complexities of premium determin¬ 
ation, reinsurance, and printing; and 
the massive organization of administra¬ 
tive and clerical routines are best orien¬ 
tated to a ‘norm*. 

Before hitting our stride, however, it 
is necessary to make a fundamental 
point: The insurance industry does not 
provide a single “standard” insurance 
form which, in an unmodified state is 
adequate to fully meet the needs of the 
camp operator. 

Conservation and Insurance 
of Physical Assets 

For the purposes of this discussion, 
physical assets are said to be buildings, 
equipment, contents, and physical 
property of all description which has 
sufficient value, singly or in the aggre¬ 
gate, to require the protection of an 
insurance policy. Within this classifi¬ 
cation we find a difference between 
property which is “fixed” and property 
which is “movable”. As a generality, it 
can be said that the lost of movable 
property (e.g., recreational equipment, 
sports equipment, etc.) is more fre¬ 
quent and is subject to a greater variety 
of perils than property which is fixed 
and immovable (e.g., buildings, and 
equipment which is permanently nailed 
down). 


. . . TO MEET THE NEEDS 

OF THE CAMP DIRECTOR 


Fixed Property, Conservation 

It is characteristic of camps that they 
are usually in an area which is not ac- 
cesible to public protection. It is there¬ 
fore fundamental that the camp opera¬ 
tor make provision for adequate 
water supplies and adequate fire fight¬ 
ing equipment on a self-contained basis, 
with a minimum of reliance on “public 
protection”. This would include foam 
extinguishers at key points, sand buckets, 
water pails, hand pumps, spades, etc. 

Special hazards should be attended 
to, and special equipment installed 
where justified. A common problem of 
control among many camps is associated 
with kitchen hazards, particularly with 
grills and frying operations, and proper 
control often involves the installation of 
an elabtorate and relatively expensive 
automatic COo extinguishing system in 
the hood and vent systems. Failure to 
appreciate this particular hazard is 
often the product of false economy. 
After all, not only is the dining lodge 
and kitchen frequently the most ex¬ 
pensive structure on the building sched¬ 
ule, but its loss at the beginning of the 
season could cause a serious shutdown 
in the operations of the camp at the 
height of its brief season. 

Proper supervision, both during the 
season and during the off season, also 
requires proper emphasis on careful 
management. As a rule, underwriters 
feel that a silent camp is a better risk 
than an operating camp; but they still 


4 


Canadian Camping 


require assurance that regular super¬ 
vision of the properties is maintained 
on a year round basis. 

As a camp evolves, additional struc¬ 
tures are raised and located in a man¬ 
ner which too often is exclusively 
directed towards questions of conveni¬ 
ence in the day to day operation of the 
facilities. Many camp operators should 
give greater consideration to the sep¬ 
aration of buildings, one from the other, 
in order that an outbreak of fire can be 
confined as close to its point of origin 
as possible. Distance between buidings, 
trees, grass can all contribute to the 
rapid spread of fire, and the site of the 
camp in relationship to prevailing winds 
must also be evaluated on a common- 
sense basis. 

Ground keeping should be well main¬ 
tained, so that brush is kept to a mini¬ 
mum, and grass kept short at the camp 
site. As most of us know, the most 
dangerous season for brush and grass 
fires is in early May at a time when 
most operators can least afford a cata¬ 
strophic fire. It is perhaps unnecessary 
to add that housekeeping in all build¬ 
ings must be closely supervised; accum¬ 
ulations of trash kept within careful 
confines; and trash incineration opera¬ 
tions conducted in areas that are suit¬ 
able. 

While all of these provisions may 
seem somewhat elementary, the fire 
prevention engineers of this company 
have frequently observed serious negli¬ 
gence in these regards, and the camp 
operator is urged to make a careful 
pre-season review of all of these factors. 

Fixed Property, Insurance 

All property insurance is based on 
values. When an inventory is taken of 
fixed property in order to determine its 
replacement cost, it is a common error 
for the camp operator to neglect to 


itemize miscellaneous outside property 
which, in the aggregate, could cause a 
substantial loss in the event of a fire 
leading to general catastrophe. Such 
items include hydro poles, telephone 
poles, yard lamps, fencing, and even 
bridges. The siting of the camp, and 
its remoteness from public areas all 
determine the value of some of these 
items; there are even some examples 
of camp operators who have substantial 
investments in telephone lines and 
poles. 

Whenever such items are included 
on a schedule of values, they must be 
properly described in order for them to 
be properly insured. Once again, it is a 
common error for such descriptions to 
be missing at a time of claim, resulting 
in denial of payment from the insurance 
company. 

In the valuation of property, in our 
experience normal valuation “square 
footage” indices cannot be depended 
upon too heavily. The remoteness of 
the camp operation often results in 
relatively high construction costs and 
the camp operator himself has the 
greatest obligation for fixing the re¬ 
placement value of his properties since 
no one else is likely to have his famili¬ 
arity with local construction conditions. 
In this connection, it should be remem¬ 
bered that an insurance policy does not 
automatically pay the amount which 
the operator placed against the item in 
Ills schedule of values, should that item 
be destroyed. You must offer satisfac¬ 
tory proof of value of the item at the 
time of loss. Contractors estimates, in¬ 
voices representing costs of labour and 
materials in the construction of a build¬ 
ing for example, should be filed away in 
a secure location and kept as supporting 
evidence against the day that a proof of 
loss must be filed. Equally useful, the 
sendees of a local contractor could be 
employed to help you evaluate the cost 


Toronto , Canada , Fall 1968 


5 


of fixed property and his estimate, in 
writing, can be worth a great deal in 
negotiations following a major loss. 

Just as a camp is frequently “evol¬ 
ved”, extended, added to, and new 
buildings erected as the need arises, so 
insurance policies proliferate with each 
new building that is erected. This type 
of piecemeal fire insurance programme 
for fixed property can be disastrous, and 
it is the type of programme which we 
observe only too frequently. Under 
these conditions, building equipment 
moved from one building to another 
can cause fluctuations in the fixed 
amounts identified for each building 
by each policy; policy accounting and 
expiration records become complicated: 
the terms and conditions of each policy 
become non-concurrent; and the oppor¬ 
tunities for vitiated or non-coverage be¬ 
come unlimited. A well managed camp 
operation will not consider any form of 
fire insurance policy which does not 
insure all properties in one document, 
usually with automatic provisions for 
the pick-up of additional structures. 
This type of policy can develop a some¬ 
what greater premium — in most cases, 
approximately 10%. But it is demon¬ 
strably better value since it is far more 
likely to fully respond to any fire loss 
which may occur. 

We have already commented on the 
role of the local contractor in helping 
the camp operator determine values, 
and have described the useful part he 
can play in the adjustment of a loss. 
It is emphasized that most camp opera¬ 
tors do not fully insure the value of 
their fixed properties — under-insurance 
is prevalent. With the operation of co- 
insurance clauses, under-insurance leads 
to inadequate reimbursement in the 
event of a partial loss to a building, as 
well as its total loss. Although premium 
rates for unprotected seasonal camps 
may always seem too high, in relation¬ 
ship to the potential loss, economies 


through under-insurance are tanta¬ 
mount to bad management. 

Movable Property, Conservation 

The conservation rules for movable 
property follow the rules of common 
sense which have already been described 
under fixed property. Because the prop¬ 
erty is movable, it makes sense that it 
should be stored in buildings on as 
dispersed a basis as possible, in order 
that a fire in any one building will take 
a limited value of contents in its course. 
It also follows that, having selected key 
buildings for storage purposes during 
the off-season, such buildings should 
have extra provisions with respect to 
locks, bars, and other forms of protec¬ 
tion against break-in and burglary. 

Movable Property, Insurance 

Up to this point, our brief insurance 
discussions have dealt almost exclusively 
with the perils of fire. It is beyond 
question that the greatest number of 
losses of movable property are through 
perils other than fire, and include “mys¬ 
terious disappearance”; theft or burg¬ 
lary; or, in the case of boats, sinking, 
stranding, etc. But if losses to movable 
property are more frequent than Is the 
case with fixed property, we can also 
characterize such losses as being “small” 
—that is, the majority of them involve 
a sum of $500.00 or less. Fortunately, 
most camp operators already well un¬ 
derstand that there can be no point to 
“trading dollars” with an insurance 
company on small losses. We applaud 
this point-of-view, and discourage in¬ 
surance of small items for small loss 
purposes. 

For these reasons, we continue in this 
paragraph to emphasize the peril of 
fire. The loss of a boat is not suffi¬ 
ciently grave to be a matter of insur¬ 
ance consequence, unless it is of an 
unusual value. The loss of fifty boats, 
however, at $500.00 each, would be an 


6 


Canadian Camping 


important loss and should be insured. 
Once again, the fire and Extended 
Coverage policy takes care of this need 
provided that it is written on a blanket 
basis covering boats and all other prop¬ 
erty of every description no matter 
where they may be located on the camp 
premises. 

If there is a stable operation, live¬ 
stock can be insured on a similar basis. 
A barn fire destroying twenty animals 
could be a serious loss. 

Crime 

Crime is normally discussed by split¬ 
ting it into two sub-divisions: crime 
for which outsiders are responsible; and 
crime which is caused by employees. 
The first of these is taken care of by the 
burglary and theft provisions of a crime 
policy, both with respect to the loss ol 
property and/or money and securities; 
and the second of these is taken care of 
by a fidelity policy. 

We have yet to experience any form 
of loss for a camp operator caused by 
an employee. Furthermore, it is difficult 
to visualize a large loss occuring, since 
good accounting controls are usually 
maintained, and there is a complete 
absence of any frequent or large money 
transactions in the. typical camp opera¬ 
tion. There are some camp operations 
where we have recommended that the 
operator carry a blanket position bond 
covering the infidelity of employees in 
amounts of $5,000.00 or $10,000.00. 
These operations were special situations, 
however, and this will always be an 
area where the camp management must 


make a decision based on their unique 
facts. 

With respect to crime caused by 
“outside” sources, we normally recom¬ 
mend that the camp carry at least 
$5,000.00 burglary, since silent camps 
during the off-season do ofTer a temp¬ 
tation to itinerants and others in the 
district. In this connection, we would 
point out that a burglary policy not 
only covers the loss of the property 
stolen, but also provides indemnity for 
damage done in breaking and entering 
a building and in the wilful destruction 
of property. In our experience, these 
latter losses can be more costly than the 
property which has actually been taken. 

Many camps arrange to have their 
premises visited by an off-season super¬ 
visor on a daily basis. Perhaps this is 
a small point, but we do feel it best 
that such supervisory visits should be 
done on a staggered basis, that is, not at 
the same time each day. 

General Liability 

It does not seem necessary to dwell 
unduly on the ways and means of 
avoiding general liability losses. Presum¬ 
ably, much of a camp operator s time 
is taken in considering the safety of his 
guests and everything possible is done 
to avoid hazards to the well-being of 
the children. It is only when all of 
these precautions fail that the General 
Liability Policy is required to respond. 
In this respect, it must always be re¬ 
membered that the liability policy pays, 
on behalf of the Insured, sums of money 
Page 18 please 


JOHN LECKIE LIMITED 

WALL TENTS, SCOUT TENTS, TARPS, SLEEPING BAGS, ETC. 
also 

SNOWMOBILE SUITS AND GAUNTLETS 

30 UPJOHN ROAD, DON MILLS, ONT. 445-3400 


Toronto, Canada, Fall 1968 


7 



HAVE YOU 


STORED THIS ONE? 

by Eanswythe Flynn , 

Director , Camp Brigadoon 


Perhaps you don’t store anything? 
Quite possibly you are able to leave 
things at camp for the winter, more or 
less in place for use during next sum¬ 
mer. Or you may be one of those who 
must bring certain items to the city or 
store them in a winterized room or 
building at camp, with certain items 
left on shelves to survive zero and below 
temperatures. Whatever your own sit¬ 
uation. the following suggestions have 
been given to Canadian Camping for 
the benefit of new directors in particu¬ 
lar and for those who are looking for 
fresh ideas: 

PIANO— Keep in a mildly warm room 
at an even temperature. If this is 
not possible there’s no alternative but 
to leave the piano in place to face 
the winter completely open and key¬ 
board exposed. However, do NOT 
cover with blankets or tarp. This 
holds dampness inside to rust strings 
and damage the felts. 

MEDICAL SUPPLIES — All medica¬ 
tions, drugs, pills, especially liquids 
should be brought back to the city 
and all supplies replenished during 
the following spring. Drugs and 
medications deteriorate in tempera¬ 
ture changes. ASA and other tablets 
crumble. Adhesives can perish. 
FLASHLIGHTS — Leave cases but 
remove all batteries. Replenish with 
new batteries in the spring if you 
want to depend on a good beam. 
HOT WATER BOTTLES — May be 
left, hanging upside down with the 
stoppers removed. By the way, do 
you tie each stopper to the top of 


each bottle? Saves frantic searching 
at the moment when they’re full of 
water. 

MATTRESSES — Leave on beds; cover 
with naphtha flakes and cedar boughs. 
Store stacked only if you have a 
lined, mouse-proof cupboard. 

PAINTS — Keep in warm room or 
return to the city for storage at home. 
This includes tubes of artists’ paints 
from the craft shop. 

CRAFT PAPER, Newsprint, Construc¬ 
tion Paper should be placed flat on 
floor or in large trunk, unfolded, 
covered and weighted down to pre¬ 
vent curling. 

WAX, Linseed Oil, Machine Oil, 
Cleaning Oils may be left, as cold 
does not affect them for use later. 

RUGS — Remove them from the floor. 
Mice tear them apart. Their threads 
and tufts make perfect lining for 
nests and new mice babies. 

ENVELOPES — Don’t leave them. 
Moisture and temperature changes 
activate the gummed edges to the 
point where they all stick cosily to¬ 
gether. 

WINDOWS — Best to cover or camou¬ 
flage them with a blanket or canvas. 
Grouse or partridge, in particular, 
will fly through clear glass and set 
you back the high cost of a new 
window, be it ever so small or large. 

SADDLES and all leather goods should 
be well saddle-soaped before hanging 
or storing for the winter. 

DOCKS — If they are removable, 
should be sheltered in the lee o’ the 
land until after ice break-up. 


8 


Canadian Camping 


DIVING BOARDS — Store flat indoors. 
Our man suggests oiling, before stor¬ 
ing, to keep the wood from drying 
out. 

VINEGARS — Will survive. If they 
are in glass bottles, see that they are 
not more than about two-thirds full. 

OTHER LIQUIDS — Juices, soft 
drinks should not be left. 

CANNED GOODS — Always store in 
the city or in a warm room. Never 
use after freezing. Tinned goods 
usually burst when frozen. 

DRY STAPLES — Flour, sugar, pow¬ 
dered milk, jelly and pudding pow¬ 
ders (but not powdered egg for 
trips), dehydrated vegetables and 
soups may be left if stored in tightly 
sealed tins or pails or the heavy plas¬ 
tic garbage pails used in summer 
storing of food. 

COAL OIL — can be left at camp, and 
will not deteriorate in the winter. 

GAS — can remain at camp, stored in 
containers approved by the Fire 
Marshal in a building removed from 
other stored items. 

MOTORS ON THE MOTOR 
BOAT S — must be drained of gaso¬ 
line. A tip from those in the know: 
drain the motor completely, then run 
the motor until it runs dry. 

PROPANE — turn ofT taps at outdoor 
tanks which can be left during the 
winter. 

FIRE EXTINGUISHERS — Check 
with your Fire Marshal. 

RAGS that have been used for paint or 
oil — remove completely; they form 
one of the greatest fire hazards. 

MATTRESSES — should not be 
slacked; in this way we are told they 
fonn another fire hazard. 

WATER SYSTEM — drain all lines 
completely by a maintenance man 
who knows how to do it properly. 


SPORTS eOOlPMCTIT 

We specialize in Crests, Crested Shirts, 
Jackets etc., specially designed for 
your camp requirements. 

We carry complete inventory 

On: Trampolines, Volleyball, Softball, 
Basketball, Indoor and Outdoor 
Games, Life Saving Equipment, 
Shuffleboard, Tetherball, 
Archery, Flag Football, First Aid 
Kits at wholesale prices. 


JACK WATSON 

SPORTING GOODS LTD. 

30 Mobile Dr. ( Toronto 16 

Phon* 757-2844 If CataUgu* 


WASHING MACHINES — drain and 
check the hose from the pump. 
Place it downwards in a position 
where it can be completely emptied. 

HINTS FROM DIRECTORS: Turn 
off the cooling unit in the walk-in 
refrigerator. Instal an enclosed heat¬ 
ing unit; set it at a medium tempera¬ 
ture and you have an excellent 
storage space for anything the area 
will take. 

Build a room, preferably lined with 
cedar, but line it also with tin or fine 
door screening, and there’s another 
area for mattresses, blankets, tents, 
sails, pillows . . . you name it . . . 
without benefit of mice. 

ANY QUESTIONS? If so, send them 
in to the Editor. We will find the 
answers for you in time for the next 
issue. 

— • 


Toronto, Canada, Fall 1968 


9 




MUSKRAT 



The sewage from an Ontario manse 
flowed directly through . a tile, to the 
river 100 yards away. 

One spring night, when the children 
were tucked abed, the minister and his 
wife were enjoying their paper. Sud¬ 
denly, a splash. - splashing broke the 
silence. They traced the noise to the 
basement toilet. They looked down into 
the bowl. Staring back, with beady 
eyes, was a drenched muskrat! 

Their surprise guest did not take that 
hazardous trip just for the fun of 
swimming. No; he was a muskrat on 
a mission. He had an important mes¬ 
sage to deliver. 

“You New World people are a filthy 
bunch,” he began. “This tile to the 
river is just a small sample of your 
sloppiness.” 

“You were given keen, pure air in 
generous quantities. And what have 
you done with it? You have belched 
out smoke and soot; atomic dust and 
fumes. Now your air is fouled up.” 


The following article appeared in the. August 
l, 1968 issue of The United Church Ob¬ 
server and is reprinted here by permission of 
the Editor. 


“You were given the largest body, of 
fresh water in the world. And you 
have used it as a cheap, handy cesspool 
for your waste. You dump into it your 
slops — pesticides, fertilizers, detergents, 
offal, trash — anything and everything 
that happens to be in your way. If you 
were Hindus by the millions living be¬ 
side the sacred Ganges for thousands of 
years, then there would be some excuse. 
But there are so few of you; and you 
have been here for such a short time. 

The missionary went on to warn that 
pollution is a two-way street. “This 
tile runs both ways. Remember that you 
have to breathe in. Dirty air is a mass 
murderer; it can sicken and kill. Re¬ 
member that you have to drink the 
putrid water from the sickened lakes. 

page 23 please 


10 


ClRiOUM CaMFIM 













HOW DO I 


Budget My Time? 

by May Brown 
Camp Deka 


If we believe the Camper is the most 
important part of any camp, then we 
must, as Camp Directors, budget our 
time so that we have maximum oppor¬ 
tunity to observe campers and be 
where they are. If we can imagine on 
ideal camp director, we would see him 
as having a major portion of his time 
at camp to mix informally and casually 
with the cabin groups and the organ¬ 
ized programme to see what is happen¬ 
ing to the individual boy or girl in 
that setting. We would find him sitting 
on a log chatting with a “loner”, or 
inviting the boy showing first signs of 
homesickness to paddle in a canoe, or 
having a quiet discussion sitting on the 
Director’s cottage verandah with a 
CI r r or a Junior Counsellor. If we do 
not budget our time to allow for this 
kind of activity, then we really are not 
fulfilling our role as a camp director. 

This may be all well and good, but 
a thousand details and a dozen crises 
arise each day at camp and we find 
the Director involved in them all; or 
so it seems. Unless he really takes stock 
from time to time, the days will pass 
and he finds he has done very little to 
become acquainted with either scampers 
or -staff, other than in the solution of 
problems or settling differences. 

A few suggestions follow that may 
permit the camp director to fulfill his 


role more effectively. If he accepts 
these then he must find the time to 
carry them out. 


1 . Programme and counsellor staff 

iiason. 

General staff meetings should be 
held quite frequently, and general poli¬ 
cies discussed and agreed upon. The 
director here has a chance to see that 
his philosophy is put into practice by 
agreeing on policies. Details of pro¬ 
gramme can well be left to others on 
the staff. 


2. Camper Contacts. 

Part of each day should be set aside 
for personal contact with cabin groups 
and individual campers. Here the per¬ 
sonal contact can be made that is so 
important both for the director and the 
staff and campers. What a highlight 
it is for a camper to have the “Big 
Chief” take the time to do something 
with him or even to stop for a chat 
and enquire about how he is enjoying 
camp. This could, well, mean partici¬ 
pating in the.prognamme regularly, like 
taking a ride, going on an overnight 
trip, sitting with the gang around the 
campfire or with a cabin group at 
mealtime. Unless one does this he can 


Torpjita t Canada , Fall 1968 


11 








never really know what is happening 
in the camp. 

3. Take charge of one major assembly 
each day. 

The director should meet the entire 
camp sometime during the day. It can 
be in chapel, at morning assembly, 
after lunch in the dining hall, or at the 
evening campfire. Here is where the 
general objectives and purposes of the 
camp can be restated and brought 
again to the attention of all. Most 
camps reflect the personal philosophy 
of the director and this is at it should 
be. Thus this person should see that 
often this philosophy is brought to the 
attention of all in different ways and 
under different situations. A special 
word should be said about the import¬ 


ance of building around the director 
certain kinds of ceremonial activities. 
Here is where the fun of camp can 
often be focussed, but the more serious 
things as well. Perhaps the director, 
more than anyone, can bring out those 
appreciations for the beauties of the 
natural setting, and many other emo¬ 
tional experiences so necessary in the 
balanced development of the individual. 

11 these things are important then 
the director must budget his time 
ahead of camp and see that many of 
the organizational jobs are completed 
before camp is opened. These will in¬ 
clude registration of campers, hiring 
of staff, public relations, invetory 
checks, repairs and maintenance, pur- 

page 22 please 


MEDICAL 
SUPPLIES 
FOR CAMPS? 

Starkmans of course, because we have been supplying all the major 
camps for over 37 years. 

Starkmans wholesale division gives you one source of supply — fast 
service, and all orders are shipped the same day received. 

You are sure of the finest First Aid equipment, drugs and medicines, 
call or write, and remember low, low prices prevail at Starkmans. 

STARKMAN 

"Jn the Service o[ Medicine” CHEMISTS LIMITED 

1243 Bathunt St., Toronto 
535-3103 


12 


Canadian Cam pins 



REPORTS by K. A. W. WIPPER 


On the site of the original Highland 
settlement, Glengarry, where “Nor*Wes¬ 
ters” were recruited in 1783 to serve as 
clerks in the North West Company, a 
museum has been set up. In it is 
depicted the history of Canada’s first 
joint-stock company, commemorating 
the United Empire Loyalist Scots who 
settled in the area and organized that 
firm. 

Nearly two hundred years later, des¬ 
cendants of the famous Nor’Wester 
Voyagcurs came forward under Hugh 
MacMillan to challenge two crews from 
Camp Kandalore to a canoe race up 
the Raisin River from Lancaster on the 
St. Lawrence River to Williamstown in 
the county of Glengarry. Difficult and 
challenging as the course turned out to 
be over its seven miles, skill combined 
with knowledge and good sportsman¬ 
ship made it a memorable occasion, 
though it did include a portage with 
two sixteen-foot canoes through a hor¬ 
net’s nest! 

Magnificent hospitality on the part 
of their hosts was extended to the two 
camp crews. With the Glengarry Pipe 
Band in attendance, exchange presen¬ 
tations marked the event at the end of 
the race: from Kandalore, a sample 
of Pemmican from Northern Manitoba 
for the Glengarry Museum; and from 
the Voyageur descendants to Kanda¬ 
lore, a Nor’Wester Pennant and a 
Plaque, treasures to take a prominent 
place back at Camp. 

The Glengarry Historical Society has 
put forth a splendid effort in reviving 
this aspect of Canada’s adventurous 
history. Kandalore feels that the canoe 


race challenged by the Company’s des¬ 
cendants brought it to life and high¬ 
lighted its importance, especially to 
those who were there. 

Council on Outdoor Education 

(A meeting of the Executive 

Committee). 

At Kellogg Centre in East Lansing 
on September 13th and 14th, a meeting 
was held to discuss the challenges facing 
outdoor education. An arrangement 
was made whereby the American and 
Canadian Councils would cooperate 
very closely through the liaison of the 
two National Chairmen, and through 
Corresponding Members on at least 
three important committees. One, Out¬ 
door Education for the Inner City 
Schools; two, Professional Preparation 
in Outdoor Education; and third, Re¬ 
search and Evaluation in Outdoor 
Education. 

Perhaps even more exciting than 
these developments was the current 
work discussion on an International 
page ZZ please 


JARVIS PRODUCTS & OSCAR 
PEARSON ENTERPRISES 

will now be known as 

POOL MAN Limited 

Water Fun & Safety Items 
Playground Equipment 
Transhailers 

Water Pumps and Softeners 
Write for Catalogue 

1870 Dundas Hwy. E. - Cooktville 
279-9811 


Toronto j Canada, Fall 1968 


IS 






COMMUNICATION 


is the KEY 


by Bruno Morawetz, Ph.D., 
Director, Camp Ponacka 


How many times have you, Mr. Camp 
Director, exclaimed: “I wish our staff 
meetings could be more productive and 
not last so long. I wish I could involve 
more of the stafT in the programme 
planning. I wish I knew how my stafT 
felt about camp. I wish I knew what 
complaints our campers might be har¬ 
bouring.” These are a few questions 
which run through the Director’s mind 
and there must be dozens more. The 
problem is, how can the Director pro¬ 
vide himself with the answers? 

How To Get The Answers 

A group of Ontario Camp Directors 
is no longer floundering. This group 
now knows how it can get the answers 
to these important questions. They 
know because they attended a most in¬ 
structive Directors’ weekend at the 
Aurora Conference Centre. The leader 
was Professor Laurence Taylor, Vice- 
President for Leadership Development 
at Hillsdale College, Michigan. Pro¬ 
fessor Taylor kept his audience (some 
thirty Directors) spellbound throughout 
the entire weekend. He gave them the 
key for the conducting of successful 
Director attempt to draw blood from 
stones, no longer will two vocal staff 
imcmbers hold the ‘floor, no longer will 
;the quiet ones sit* in silence, no longer 
will the meeting drag into the wee 
hours of the morning, no longer will 
the meeting be sidetracked into irrele- 
vancies. 


The key to a successful staff meeting 
and proper two-way communication be¬ 
tween Director and staff is found in the 
techniques of running a meeting. To 
the theory' and practice of these tech¬ 
niques, Professor Taylor devoted most 
of the weekend. It is impossible to out¬ 
line them in detail but here is a rough 
sketch. The answer lies in breaking 
into smaller groups, each of which has 
a chairman and a recording secretary. 
The leader of the whole meeting may 
pose a question such as “what would be 
the best way to improve the morale in 
the camp?” Each person in the smaller 
group is given one minute to propose 
an answer. If there are six persons in 
a group, it means that within six 
minutes each member of the stafT has 
had an opportunity to state his views 
on the subject. The smaller group then 
takes a further minute to decide which 
answers it wishes to report to the meet¬ 
ing as a whole. In this way everyone in 
the room is informed on the thinking of 
everyone else. The timid ones are not 
afraid to speak to an intimate group of 
six persons; the vocal and verbose ones 
are given the same one minute to ex¬ 
press themselves. 

All the best answers have now been 
heard. The leader may then call on 
the same groups to give one minute to 
the implementation of the best sugges¬ 
tions, and within another seven minutes 

page 17 please 


14 


Canadian Camping 



by Ann Prewitt, 

Director, Camp Northway Lodge 


COMMUNICATION 


Walking along, our ‘back trail’ one 
morning 1 came across Judy Brown, 
age 11, and two older campers, Sarah 
13 and Mary 15. They were examining 
the. low shrubs as they wandered along 
with Judy in. the lead. This was Judy’s 
third year at Northway, the other two 
were new. 

“I’m helping them with their TRIP¬ 
PING/’ volunteered Judy. “We’re 
looking for Labrador Tea so we . can 
make some Hudson’s Bay tea the way 
the Voyageurs did”. 

“The leaves are supposed to be long 
and skinny with edges curled under 
and with whitish or tanish kind of 
woolly undersides”, said Mary. 

“It really smells good, too, when you 
first pick it. I think we found some 
right along here last year”, Judy added 
hopefully. 

This was Northway’s TRIPPING 
programme in action. Anyone who has 
passed any part of it is qualified to 
teach, and pass, another — provided 
safety is not involved. Judy was proud¬ 
ly and eagerly helping two older cam¬ 
pers learn some edible wild foods. Age 
barriers were non-existent. 

Far Easier 

In a small camp, such as North way, 
communication is far easier than within 
a large camp. The interchange of 
thoughts, messages and opinions — either 


WITHIN A CAMP 



verbal or written —. is far less formal 
than in a large camp which, of neces¬ 
sity, must be more regimented. 

For example, in our dining rdom 
anyone may sit wherever she wants to 
sit provided she observes one rule: Np 
one may. save a place for another. This 
in itself creates new friendships and 
dissolves cliques. 

Anyone who wishes may stand up 
in the dining room and make an an¬ 
nouncement: — and is encouraged to do 
so. Perhaps someone has misplaced 
a raincoat or a camper may. want to 
put on a ‘radio play’ that evening and 
asks for volunteers to read the parts. 

Being a very small camp of just 
sixty girls our most important method 
of communication is “built in” and 
works quite effortlessly. There are three 
campers and one Counsellor in each 
tent. In this small intimate group every 
aspect of camp life is discussed and 
many ideas are suggested — “Wouldn’t 
it be a good idea if ... ” At any 
counsellors’ meeting, individual or 
group problems rise to the surface and 
can be dealt with immediately. Deli¬ 
cate matters, such as a death in the 
family, can be handled through the tent 
groups without a general announce¬ 
ment, as counsellors counsel their little 
charges how to behave toward the 
bereaved one. 

Our morning work hour, “Work- 
shift”, as it is called is planned purpose- 


Toronto, Canada, Fall 1968 


15 









fully to open lines of communication 
throughout the whole camp. The three 
campers in each tent are divided into 
three different “Workshifts” so that 
each group of 20 consists of one cam¬ 
per from each tent. These “workshifts” 
meet every morning and choose some¬ 
thing constructive that they wish to do 
for the whole camp. They may canvas 
a canoe or repair a fireplace at a picnic 
site. 

Aside from our regular Morning 
Council where plans for the day are 
made there are frequent meetings of 
all kinds throughout the camp. As 
activities are individually taught the 
groups called together by Activity 
Counsellors are either very small or 
very' large so as to communicate know- 
may be working on knots and splicing 
ledge to the whole camp. A small group 
for Sailing or the whole camp might be 
gathere together to learn mouth-to- 
nose or mouth-to-mouth resuscitation. 

Interchange of Thoughts 

In a small camp the interchange of 
thoughts in Counsellor meetings is very 
free and frank. Beyond the original 
mimeographed camp philosophy, camp 
rules, and individual job analysis there 


is little or no need for written or printed 
communication between the Director 
and Staff. Forthright good natured 
discussions solve the problems as best 
they can be solved. 

Each member of the staff knows 
what her job is and that she is en¬ 
trusted with the responsibility to do 
that job. To communicate this trust 
to the staff member is what the direc¬ 
tor must do. When the Counsellor 
understands the trust and responsibility 
that has been placed on her she will 
be equal to it. She will flounder if she 
feels that someone is always watching 
over her shoulder. I, myself, would 
never accept a job unless I was also 
given the authority and responsibility 
to do that job. 

The written word is used in our 
magazine, ‘Camp Chat’ to communi¬ 
cate within the camp creative ideas 
that the campers or staff might have. 
Poetry, stories, trip write-ups, trip 
songs, all find their place in Camp 
Chat which is read to the whole camp 
twice a summer as it comes out. North¬ 
way Camp Chats date back to 1906. 

page 2 1 tolcasc 


YOUR CAMPERS WILL ENJOY 

SchneiderS 

FAMOUS FOR QUALITY 

MEAT PRODUCTS 

ALSO 

EGGS - BUTTER - CHEESE 

J. M. SCHNEIDER LIMITED 

KITCHENER, ONTARIO 519-745-7321 



16 


Canadian Camping 



from pags 14 

the whole camp staff may have arrived 
at concrete and shared ways of com¬ 
bating a period of slump which in- 
veitabily occurs. 

Some Questions 

By the same technique you can elicit 
from your staff any answers you desire: 
What is the best way to keep staff 
members better informed about daily 
activities? In what way could the pro¬ 
gramme be improved? What is the best 
way in which your supervision could 
help you do a better job? What new 
ideas would you like to see implemen¬ 
ted? What evening programmes would 
you like to see introduced? What is 
your major problem in your cabin 
group? 

This method provides for easy and 
quick feedback without stultifying the 


most timid and often the most valuable 
members of a camp staff. 

Hillsdale College has published News¬ 
letters under the title: “For Those Who 
Must Lead . . . ” and these are obtain¬ 
able from the College. Professor Taylor 
criss-crosses the North American Con¬ 
tinent several times each year, helping 
businesses, churches, unions, etc., to 
heal the breakdown of communication 
which presents the main barrier to 
vital teamwork. He can be reached at 
Box 292, Hillsdale, Michigan, U.S.A. 
A weekend under his leadership is 
bound to bear good fruit in the sum¬ 
mers ahead. 

A letter to Hillsdale College will 
bring you a list of titles and subjects 
covered in each Newsletter as well 
as the price list and subscription 
information. 



Vacation Home Selector .... Fully 
Illustrated. Visit Beaver Or Wri e 
Beaver Lumber Company Limited, 
P.O. Box 1450, Sheridan Park, Ontario. 


EXPANDING 
OR BUILDING 


See the full selection of 
buildings at Beaver . . . A- 
Frame, Round Paneloc, 
Chalet, Contemporary or 
Rustic Haida Red Cedar! 
More than 40 to choose 
from. 


Each building is architecturally designed 
and engineered for your safety, comfort 
and protection and is easily adaptable 
to camping needs. Visit the Beaver store 
nearest your home or camp and see the 


selection. 



LUMBER STORES 


IN ONTARIO THERE ARE MORE THAN 80 BEAVER STORES READY TO SERVE YOU 


7 'oronto, Canada , Fall 1968 


17 












from page 7 

for which it is evident that they are 
legally liable. The General Liability 
Policy should never be thought of as 
available for public relations purposes, 
or in response to “good neighbour” 
expenses. 

All liability policies are distinguished 
by the difficulty of setting an “ade¬ 
quate” limit. This is because most 
people find it difficult to visualize the 
circumstances under which the policy 
will be required to act. 

Gamp operations are distinguished by 
almost uniformly inadequate limits. In 
our view, $500,000.00 inclusive for 
Bodily Injury and Property Damage, 
any one occurrence, should be thought 
of as a minimum. 

The possibility of botulism in the 
kitchen; or the destruction of valuable 
timber rights as a result ot negligence 
does exist and the cost of limits of 
$1,000,000.00 inclusive, for example, 
over those of $50,000.00 is seldom 
more than 15 to 25%. 

In addition to the question of limit, 
the “standard” general liability contract 
requires additional tailoring and must 
be “designed by you” if it is to fulfill 
its purposes. Some of the following 
points are necessities, even though they 
must be selected from the “options 
brochure”. 

Employers’ Liability 

In our experience, the staff of sum¬ 
mer camps are almost always covered 
for Workman’s Compensation purposes. 
However, the question of interpretation 
of Workman’s Compensation coverage 
still depends upon whether the em¬ 
ployee was injured as a result of his 
work, or whether it was sustained 
outside the direct course of his employ¬ 
ment. For example, when is a coun¬ 


sellor covered by Workman’s Compen¬ 
sation? If he breaks his leg getting out 
of bed in the morning? If he suffers 
concussion during a game of volleyball 
with other counsellors? As he is walking 
across the camp grounds to his first 
supervisory task of the day? 

If the Workman’s Compensation 
Board should challenge an employee’s 
right to recover damages for injuries 
sustained in your employment, they do 
so by interpreting the provisions of the 
Workman’s Compensation Act. If an 
injury is not covered under the Act, it 
does not necessarily mean that the em¬ 
ployee does not have other, legal lia¬ 
bility recourse against his employer. If 
he proves his point in Court, the awards 
can be substantial; and whether he 
proves his point or not, the costs of 
defense can constitute a substantial loss 
to the camp management. Both of these 
types of loss are covered under the 
Employers’ Liability Endorsement to 
the General Liability Policy. 

In insurance terminology, there is a 
difference between bodily injury and 
personal injury. The basic policy covers 
legal liabilities caused by bodily injury, 
in the sense of physical injury. It does 
not cover personal injury, which is 
characterized as invasion of privacy, 
false arrest, wilful detention, discrimin¬ 
ation, etc. These additional insuring 
provisions can be added for very little 
additional premium, and we believe 
(hat the protection of the policy is much 
more complete if they are included. 

Employees as Additional Named 
Insureds 

In camp insurance programmes, it is 
a common error for the description of 
the Named Insured to be incomplete. 
It is not unusual for an assortment of 
different interests to combine in the 
operation of the camp; and in the 
event that one of these interests should 


18 


Canadian Camping 


be singled out and named in a suit of 
liability, the failure to include such an 
interest in the policy would mean that 
no coverage would be available — and 
this, it should be remembered, is a 
liability which has arisen from an as¬ 
pect of the camp’s operation. There 
are no additional premium considera¬ 
tions to be weighed when associated or 
affiliated interests are added to the des¬ 
cription of who is insured under the 
policy. 

Similarly, many policies neglect to 
add the interest of employees. If a 
camp counsellor should have the ill 
fortune to be supervising recreation 
which causes injury to a guest, it is 
quite likely that a legal liability suit 
seeking damages would name both the 
camp and the counsellor, personally. 
Once again, the counsellor would not 
likely have any personal insurance 
vvhich would respond to a situation of this 
kind, and he would have to find ways 
and means or raising a defense, and the 
subsequent payment of an award il the 
case were so adjudicated, from his own 
resources. This undesirable state of af¬ 
fairs can be very readily corrected by 
the action which we suggest. 

Miscellaneous General Liability 
Amendments 

The Standard General Liability Pol¬ 
icy may impose serious limitations on 
liability arising from the operation of 
boats. Many camp programmes have 
already been modified to meet the needs 
of the operation in this respect, but 
some form of annual review is indicated 
in order that the policy should respond 
to this important area of potential 
liability. 

The policy contains a standard ex¬ 
clusion that it will not respond to bodily 
injury “caused intentionally by, or at 
the direction of the Insured”. In most 
school insurance programmes, this 


clause is deleted since there can be some 
concern about physical punishment 
meted out to young guests, whether it 
be authorized or unauthorized by the 
senior executive of a school or a camp’s 
management. It is not the purpose of 
our present discussion to characterize 
physical punishment as progressive or 
retrogressive, or as enlightened or un¬ 
enlightened. One conjectures that at 
least some camp operations are directed 
towards corrective conditions for child 
behaviour; and wherever the possibility 
of physical punishment does exist, the 
exclusion should be either modified, or 
taken out altogether. Once again, 
under typical circumstances, there 
should be little or no additional pre¬ 
mium for this alteration in the wording. 

Automobile Liability 

The “standard model” automobile pol¬ 
icy provides broader coverage provisions 
than most, and is one of the few policies 
in which coverage variations (at its stan¬ 
dard) cannot exist, since all of its terms 
are governed by law. A camp’s opera¬ 
tions with respect to automobiles or 
trucks are seldom very extensive. Such 
automobile operations that do exist are 
likely to be conducted as much by em¬ 
ployees vehicles, or outside vehicles as 
they are by vehicles owned by the camp 
management. For these reasons, it is 
necessary for every camp to carry two 
automobile policies: one of which covers 
vehicles owned by the camp; and one 
which covers vehicles not owned by the 
camp management but which are 
rented, leased, borrowed, or used br¬ 
others on their behalf. 

There is, perhaps, only one truly im¬ 
portant aspect of the standard wording 
which requires amendment if it is to 
be used for typical camp application. 
The standard automobile policy con¬ 
tains an exclusion which states that the 
policy will not respond to any liability 
caused as a result of an injury to a pas- 


T or onto, Canada, Fall 1968 


19 


senger where there has been a fare or 
compensation paid by the passenger to 
the operator of the vehicle, whether “de 
facto” or implied. This could mean that 
a station wagon operated by a camp, 
carrying children on a trip, has no op¬ 
erative liability insurance if the children 
should become injured as a result of the 
negligence of the driver. One presumes 
that it would be seldom the case that 
the children pay a fare for the ride; but 
it could be easily construed that the 
ride was available as a part of the 
monetary consideration paid by the 
guest or the guest’s parents to the camp 
in return for services rendered. It is 
necessary for this exclusion to be re¬ 
moved from the owned automobile 
policy only, since the standard non- 
owned automobile policy does not con¬ 
tain this particular exclusion. In respect 
to non-owned automobiles, however, 
the owner of the vehicle may well 
neglect to provide proper coverage for 
passenger hazard under these circum¬ 
stances, and the camp’s non-owned auto 
policy would be the only insurance 
document that could respond. 

We do not notice the same inade¬ 
quacy of limits on automobile liability 
as is often the case with general liability. 
Perhaps the controversy of automobile 
accidents is sufficient for most people to 
automatically choose adequate figures. 
We do recommend a minimum of 
$500,000.00 for third party liability; 
and a minimum of $10,000.00 for each 
passenger seat for passenger hazard 
liability if there is an implicit or “dc 
lacto” fare. It should be noted that, 
where a fare is paid or implied, the 
insurance company insists upon a sep¬ 
arate liability limit to cover passenger 
hazard. 

Accident Policy 

Most camps purchase an Accident 
Policy which provides a schedule of in¬ 
demnity for any child or guest who may 


be injured using the camp or its facili¬ 
ties. Unlike legal liability, it is not 
necessary for the claimant to prove 
that the camp has been in any way 
negligent in order to collect. It is the 
Accident Policy which satisfies the situa¬ 
tion in which the camp management 
feel morally liable, even if they may not 
be legally liable. Most of these cover¬ 
ages are written on the “Accidental 
death and dismemberment” form, and 
it is our experience that $5,000.00 is a 
popular limit. The policy itself may 
schedule various sub-limits depending 
upon the kind of injury sustained by the 
claimant. There is no question but 
that some form of accident coverage of 
this type should be a part of every camp 
programme. 

Finally, it seems proper to conclude 
that an article of this kind can never 
cover all of the ground that your in¬ 
surance broker, agent, or consultant is 
able to review in his consulting sessions 
with camp management. It must also 
be remembered that, while camp opera¬ 
tions have a great deal in common, 
there are also some unique differences 
in each situation and the insurance pro¬ 
gramme must reflect this uniqueness. 
With any luck, however, there will be 
several points for further discussion 
which you can extract from this nar¬ 
rative and one trusts that such a con¬ 
structive result will have added to your 
peace-of-mind as you face the 1969 
operating season. 



20 


Canadian Camping 


For Your Camp 
Library 

“WHERE THEY GO IN WINTER” 

by Margaret Waring Buck, Published 
August 1968, Price: $1.95. G. R. Welch 
Company, Limited, 222 Evans Avenue, 
Toronto 18, Ontario. 

This charmingly illustrated publica¬ 
tion is a most comprehensive and ac¬ 
curate presentation to a question which 
continually pricks the curiosity of both 
young people and adults. “When win¬ 
ter comes, what happens to all the wild 
creatures that we see in warm weather? 
Where are all the bugs, birds and 
beasts?” 

Well, you can find out by just order¬ 
ing a copy, or indeed several copies, for 
“Where They Go in Winter” would 
make a delightful and much appre¬ 
ciated Christmas gift for your friends 
of all ages; and certainly it ought to 
have a place on the library shelf in 
your own particular camp. 

-J-H. 


from p'lge 16 

Verbally, the whole camp looks 
forward to Sunday night ‘Talks’. Gen¬ 
erally a topic or two are suggested in 
Sunday Morning Council. No subject 
is barred. This past summer, Drugs 
and Hippies were two of the subjects 
chosen. All campers and counsellors are 
encouraged to express their thoughts 
and opinions. The discussions wax loud 
and long. 

Our canoe trips are planned to 
create new friendships — new avenues 
of communication — as much as pos¬ 
sible. Campers and Counsellors from 
different tents are selected for the 
trips. 

To promote tripping safety the Head 
Guide meets with the guides and coun¬ 
sellors so that all can learn the areas 
of caution and improve their know¬ 
ledge of the Art of Tripping. 

Briefly, every effort is made to have 
the inspiration for the camp activities 
spring from within the camp itself. 
Only when safety is involved does the 
Director rear her ugly head and dictate 
with unqualified firmness. At all other 
times the lines of communication are 
wide open throughout the camp. 


WHtH ORDERING 

Please Remember 

Our Advertisers 


Reminder! 

1969 CANADIAN BOAT SHOW 

CNE AUTOMOTIVE BUILDING, TORONTO — JAN. 31 TO FEB. 9 


Toronto, Canada, Fall 1968 


21 






SOUNDS OF SUMMER 

The Intermediate Section of a large 
camp for girls reports that a portion 
of one day during the summer is given 
over to campers who may do as they 
please in the selection of an activity, 
so long as it is safe and carried on 
within a specified area with counsellors 
present but not participating. Dress 
Up Drama, a baseball game (never on 
the regular programme), live frog 
races, an organized “Jacks” tournament 
where speed was the chief criterion, 
were top choices. But the most fun of 
all came for those who spent the total 
period rolling from top to bottom of a 
nearby hill, overjoyed at the unex¬ 
pected realization of a dream. 

* * * * 

A church-sponsored camp stafT is still 
chuckling over a Free Time period 
during which too much noise and ex¬ 
cited arguing seemed to issue from one 
of the tents for twelve-year-olds. The 
counsellor’s investigation found a game 
of elementary strip poker in progress. 
The instigator and instructor? The 
minister’s daughter! 

— • 


FOR SALE - CAMP KASAWAMAK 

Located about 60 miles north-west 
of Kingston, Ont Approx. 20 acres 
with 1200 feet of shoreline, lovely 
sandy beach, 16 buildings includ¬ 
ing largo main lodge, sleeping and 
staff cabins, workshop, boathouse, 
stables Hydro and telephone. Ex¬ 
cellent water & good road $47,000 
Contact D. A. Mason, 485-9331 

THE ROYAL TRUST COMPANY 

Real Estate Division 

227 Eglinton Avenue West - Toronto 12 


from page 13 

Council for Outdoor Education. One 
very significant observation was made 
in this respect: outdoor education and 
camping was regarded as an important 
medium by which International under¬ 
standing and world brotherhood might 
be promoted. 

The following countries have ex¬ 
pressed interest in such an international 
body: Congo, Australia, Chile, Eng¬ 
land, Germany, Ghana, Israel, Japan, 
Korea. Netherlands, Peru, Philippines, 
Thailand, Venezuela, Argentine and, of 
course, Canada and the United States. 

—• 


from page 12 

chasing of equipment, ordering food, 
attending conferences, keeping up with 
new rules and regulations, and many 
others. If time is taken to do these 
things before camp, and the staff is 
organized so that many routine jobs 
can be done by staff, then the Director 
is free to do those things that are im¬ 
portant. Paper work and record keep¬ 
ing should be kept to a minimum and 
done by others. It is a great waste to 
have a Director of long experience and 
many skills remove himself from the 
real life of the camp and get “bogged 
down” by administrative details. Let 
us not in camp make the same error 
found in schools and many recreational 
agencies whereby the head of the in¬ 
stitution finds himself shut off from the 
people involved and busy with trivial 
details. 

Assess the importance of each job 
and budget your time. —• 


NAUTILUS ARTS AND CRAFTS SUPPLIES 


Supplies for Arts and Crafts Jewellery Findings 

Rough Rock for Tumbling 

Agents for Covington Tumblers, Slab Saws, Faceters, Etc. 


WRITE FOR CATALOGUE 


6515 Kingston Road, West Hill, P.O., Ont. 


284-1 171 


22 


Canadian Campino 











from page 10 

Clear* water is life; defiled water is 
death.” 

He went on to chide the church for 
its dilly-dallying in the fight for pure 
air and water. “Why is the manse one 
of the last homes in your town to have 
its plumbing up to the mark? Why 
wasn’t it the first? Why are you lagging 
instead of leading?” 

The last thrust was the most cutting 
of all. “I’m no preacher, and this is 
no pulpit,” he said, “But — let me re¬ 
mind you that the earth is the Lord’s 
and the fulness thereof. This land is 
not your land. It was given to all of 
His people, living and unborn. The 
Creator formed the clear air, the clean 
water, and the fertile soil. He looked 
on what he made, and it was good. He 
made man, and planted a garden. Then 
the Lord God took man and put him 
in the garden to dress it and to keep it. 
That is your job: what are you doing 
about it?” 

The muskrat blinked his eyes as il 
he had more to say, but we will never 
know what else he had on his mind. 
The minister took advantage of the 
brief pause and gave the flush lever a 
quick flick. In a moment, the messen¬ 
ger was on the easier voyage down to 
his home. 

His mission was accomplished. And 
the minister scrawled a few words in 
his memo pad: “Call manse commit¬ 
tee. New plumbing.” 

The lady of the house was thought¬ 
ful, but her only comment didn’t seem 
to be too profound. 

“I suppose that muskrats have to live 
too,” she mused. 

— • 


OUR FRIENDS . . 
The Advertisers 


Beaver Lumber . 17 

Continental Casualty Co . Outside Back 

John Leckie, Limited . 7 

Gibbons Foods, Ltd . Inside Front 

Nautilus Arts and Crafts .. 22 

Pool Man, Ltd . 13 

Schneider’s Meats . 16 

Starkman Chemists . 12 

Jack Watson Sporting Goods . 9 


A CAMP DIRECTOR 

is available for Summer, 1969, from 
February first if required. He would 
like full-time work preferably in a 
co-ed camp, and would be happy in 
any province in Canada. He can 
manage, direct and organize, enjoys 
working with children as well as 
adults, and has had a lifetime of ex¬ 
perience in children's camping. For 
details and interview write to Box 
77, Canadian Camping, 75 Crescent 
Road, Apt. 8, Toronto 5, Ont. 


HOBART DISHWASHER 
FOR SALE 

Model AM 7 stainless steel, straight 
through operation. 220 volt, 60 cycle, 
single phase, equipped with non-regu- 
lated immersion heater for tank and 
factory supplied valves and filters. Can 
be seen at Camp Oconto, near Sharbot 
Lake. For further information contact— 
C. Labbett, 3 Pine Forest Rd., Toronto 1 2, 
Phone 4 89-1032. 


SELLING YOUR CAMP? 

A buyer is interested in purchasing or 
becoming a partner in an existing day or 
resident camp for children. It should be 
fully equipped, and situated in the prov¬ 
ince of Ontario. The prospective buyer, 
an experienced camp man, married and 
holding a University degree, may be 
reached for further discussion at 
225-5556. 


Toronto, Canada, Fall 1968 


23 
















Since 1954 campers have been paid over one quarter 
of a million dollars from this plan. Benefits paid are 
increasing each year — proof of the need for your 
camp-guard plan. 

*A choice of plans for all organizational, church and private camps 
providing broad medical expense protection for each accident and each 
sickness at low cost group rates for both campers and staff members. 


Put camp-guard on your programme. 
Display this symbol and let parents know 
your camp is covered. This symbol of 
outstanding coverage assures them you 
take added interest in your camper’s wel¬ 
fare, by providing a camp-guard accident 
and sickness plan. 

Your local insurance agent will help you 
choose the right plan for your camp; or 
write our nearest office for full particulars. 



DISPLAY THIS SYMBOL 

STICKERS AVAILABLE FOR YOUR STATIONERY 




CONTINENTAL CASUALTY COMPANY 


Suite 410, 1281 West Georgia St. 160 B,oor St - 5 Place Ville Marie 

VANCOUVER 5, TORONTO MONTREAL 2. QUEBEC 

MUtual 4-6381 ’ 924-4692 Victor 9-5303 

Suite 660, 1 Thornton Court, EDMONTON, GA. 4-7322 

202-209 Notre Dame, WINNIPEG 2, WH. 3-8723 Suite 403, 600 6th Avenue S.W.. CALGARY. AM. 3-1937 





