Canadian 

camping 



OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 
L'ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU CANADA — PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 


SUITE 2, 1806 AVENUE ROAD 
TELEPHONE (416) 781-4717 


• TORONTO, ONTARIO M5M 3Z1 


Vol. 31 No. 4 
June 1979 









C.C.A. ANNUAL MEETING 


The Annual Meeting of the Canadian 
Camping Association was held at Acadia 
University in Wolfville, Nova Scotia 
on Friday, May 25, 1979. All Provincial 
Associations were represented and many 
Committee and Project Chairmen were pre¬ 
sent as well. 

George Matthews, President of the Nova 
Scotia Camping Association welcomed the 
C.C.A, to the University and to the Nova 
Scotia Camping Association’s Spring 
Conference which was arranged for the 
weekend. C.C.A. President, Jack Pearse, 
expressed his delight in sharing this 
experience with people from the Nova 
Scotia Camping Movement and emphasized 
the fact that organized children’s 
camping began in Nova Scotia in 1890. 

The meeting proceeded formally with the 
adoption of the minutes, the financial 
statement, the budget for 1979-80, and 
the appointment of auditors. There was 
a General Resolution approving the ac¬ 
tions of the Board of Directors during 
the past year, and the reports of Pro¬ 
vincial Associations, Committees, Pro¬ 
jects and Task Forces were accepted as 
cir cilia ted. 

Mr. Pearse indicated that the President’s 
Report was included in the Annual Report 
booklet and the meeting continued with 
the Installation of the new President, 
Clifford Labbett and Vice-President, 

Derek Walsh. 

Introduced by Immediate Past President, 
Ron Johnstone, Mr. Labbett in his ac¬ 
ceptance speech asked for the continued 
support of the provincial associations. 

Kenneth Willis extended an invitation 
to hold the 1979 Annual Meeting in 
Quebec in the Spring of 1980. 

Awards of Honour for outstanding con¬ 
tributions to C.C.A. were conferred on 
the following: 


David Boston , a past President of C.C.A. 

Gary Luthy, Immediate Past President of 
the Alberta Camping Association 

Nestor Kelba , also a past President of 

A.C.A. 

Lome Bowering , former chairman of the 
C.C.A. Standards Committee 

Jack Pearse , retiring President of C.C.A. 
The meeting was adjourned at 8:40 P.M. 

The Executive of the C.C.A. for 1979-81 

PRESIDENT EMERITUS 
F.M. Van Wagner 

PRESIDENT 
Clifford Labbett 

IMMEDIATE PAST PRESIDENT 
Jack Pearse 
VICE PRESIDENT 
Derek Walsh 

SECRETARY 
Elizabeth Greenway 

TREASURER 
Wayne Perkins 

Canadian camping 

is published 6 times a year 
by the 

Canadian Camping Association 
1806 Avenue Road Suite 2 

Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 

(416) 781-4717 

SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
1 year $5.00 
3 years $12.00 




• YOUR CAMP AND ITS ENVIRONMENT • 


Most of our camps have occupied the same site for many years, and will stay on 
the same site for many more years. Since large investments in buildings have 
been made on those sites, the protection of the environment of our camps must 
therefore be a major concern for all of us. The following Environmental Main¬ 
tenance Standards were developed some time ago at a Conference of Canadian In¬ 
terpreters. They should be a helpful guide for our camp directors. 

1. Composting - of food and other organic wastes 

2. Developing a ’waste 1 awareness among all camp personnnel 

3. Plan for recycling whenever possible - save tins, paper, aluminum, plastics, 
metal - store and arrange transport to recycling depts if practical. 

4. Purchasing policies developed which will be acceptable as far as preserving 
the use of natural resources 

e.g. - can the use of paper dishes be justified 

- paper used in the administration of the camp can be fully used - 
single space, use both sides, reuse paper for memos, etc. 

- buy more bulk foods 

5. Plastics are indestructible when left in the environment - plan to recycle. 

6. Privies and outhouses to be considered one of the best ways of disposing of 
body wastes - superior to the flush toilet. Decentralize urinals and "edu¬ 
cate” campers and staff to have different attitudes toward the disposal of 
body wastes and this most natural body function. 

7. Practice good water use throughout camp. Use it as required but not wasted 
e.g. repair leaky taps, toilets kept in good condition, showers and baths 
used with discretion; consider water as a usable, but finite resource. 

8. Keep all motors and vehicles in good repair. Question the use of motor 
boats in the camp program - avoid running motors needlessly and be sure 
they are non-polluting. 

9. Conserve energy whenever possible - turn lights, save heating and cooking 
fuels where possible. 

10. Campfires - plan alternatives to burning wood where it is scarce - avoid 
cutting living trees for campfires - use up and clear snags and dead wood. 

11. "Camping without a trace" may be a slogan that could be used more and more 
Question the idea of permanent out-trip sites that tend to become over-used 
and very destructive to the environment. 

12. Systematic development of trail "systems" that provide access to special 
ecological areas and enable campers to become familiar with the camp prop¬ 
erty. Provision should be made to "rest" trails and paths when serious 
over—use occurs. Alternative trails will help restore the land as will a 
variety of materials such as sawdust, gravel and truff. 

(cont. on page 12 ) 


The COUNSELLOR'S Page 


- ANYDAY IDEAS - 

Here are some ideas which might be help¬ 
ful in planning a varied and happy pro¬ 
gram for your campers. They are "camper 
tested" and presented to assist you if 
you need a little inspiration when your 
per spiration is exhausted. 

" Leave Something Behind" - build some¬ 
thing for the camp - new steps - pathway- 
a railing, or split wood for the fire¬ 
place. 

- Organize a "Games" Day - for a group of cabins or a section. Such events as 
a waterboiling contest, cutting seats in a log, caber toss, three legged race, 
fire fighting contest, and egg throwing contest and log sawing are always pop¬ 
ular. 

- A Scavenger Hunt involving looking for natural objects, e.g. a maple leaf - 
feather - a fungus - a bird's nest - moss and a bone are good for starters. 

- Night Walk - (for campers prepared for such activities) - choose a clear night 
preferrably with a moon to light your way (don’t allow flashlights) - hike in 
clear and bueh areas stopping just to listen and trying to identify sounds 
you hear. 

- TV TIME - can be played just before bed or after a busy activity - "NAME THAT 
TUNE" - "PASSWORD" - "TWENTY QUESTIONS". 

- CHRISTMAS CARDS - have the campers make their Christmas Cards to each other 
with '.amusing poems or notes, then have the counsellor collect them and mail 
them just before the holidays. DON’T FORGET! 

- "Battleship" - a camp classic - ask about it! 

- Gymnastics - move mattresses to the floor - for somersaults, tumbling etc. 

- BINGO! - have your group organize a game for a number of groups in Camp.. 

- The News - write up a camp newspaper or gossip column and read it at a meal. 

- TREEFORTS are great fun and involve the whole cabin in a variety of imagina¬ 
tive endeavors. 

- The Raft - most kids love to build a raft. Camp may provide them with the 
only opportunity they will ever have to try this activity. 

- Charades using camp personalities or objects as your theme. 



4 




□ □□□□□□□□□ pii 


•CLOSEUP CHECKLIST 


Here is a CHECK LIST which may be used in closing up camp for the season. We have 

tried to include all the usual essentials common to most camps. Each camp will 

have its own needs. This list is to help organize a system for your camp which 

might be followed and improved upon on an annual basis. It could be very useful 

in camps where continuity of leadership is not always easy. 


food inventory made - _ has one copy 

_ has the other 

Canned goods removed to an area where they will not freeze. 

Dried foods properly stored in a dry area away from rodents. 

Freezers left open - cleaned - with a screen over the top to prevent amimals 
from being trapped inside 

Frig;clean and doors fixed to remain open to prevent mildew and odour. 

Grease tops of stoves and grills to prevent rust 

Grease Traps cleaned out 
Inventories made of dishes (2 copies) 

Inventory of cutlery (2 copies) 

Record of pots and pans (2 copies) 


has one copy 
has the other 

has one copy 
has the other 

has one copy 
has the other 


(cont. next page) 



CABINS 


□ 

□ 

□ 


Mattresses put on sides to avoid fabric getting damp and deteriorating 


Mattresses needing repair have been moved to_ 

where they may be attended to before next season. 

Mothballs (a few) left in cabins will help keep rodents out and freshen the 
air. 


□ Screens over windows and doors removed (if possible) and stored inside 
cabins - WRITE ON THE EDGE. 





TENTS 


□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 


have been checked to see they are all dry 
rolled and labels indicating where they go 

tent platforms lifted so they are on an angle which will allow water to 
drain away easily. 


r*\ 


TRIPPING EQUIPMENT 


□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 


Packs scrubbed and dried then hung upside down for good ventilation 
Packs needing repair have been separated and are being repaired at_ 

Billy pails, frying pans stored upside down 

Paddles and oars hung up or laid out flat to prevent warping 







□ Maps checked for dryness and rolled up 

□ Compasses and other valuable equipment is stored 




T 


GENERAL JOBS 


□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

p 


Fire Extinguishers have been checked to see charge is good. Container- 
water emptied and stored upside down. 

Blankets, pillows, sheets, towels cleaned and stored in _ 

Wiring has been checked for worn areas 

Piano lids left open to help prevent rusting of wires. 

Fireplace chimneys covered. 


□ 

□ 


Privies (outdoor) have ashes put down the hole, 
break up. 


This caused the "mass to 


OTHER EQUIPMENT 
Helpful Hints 

KOTHBAUS s re a good deterent for squirrels mice and chipmunks. If left in 
buildings they help minimize the dammage. After use, collect unused portions 
and store in a sealed container for use another year. 

PAINTING boats in the fall ensures them of a hard coat and you won’t be rushed 
to paint or varnish them in the spring, which may be cold and damp. 

BROOMS of all types laid out flat or hung up so the ends do not bend out of 
shape. 

SCREENS should be removed from all buildings and stored inside LABELLED and 
if necessary repaired — so they may be returned to the correct windows next year. 


Let the Editor know if you have any helpful maintenance hints to share with our 
readers. There is still time to make the October issue. Please send them to 
Mr. Brian Blackstock, c/o Canadian Camping Association, 1806 Avenue Rd. Toronto. 

These four pages may be easily removed from "Canadian Camping" and used as your 
individual check list. 


8 




Thought for Food 


CHILI 

50 servings 

1. Brown 5 lbs of hamburg 

5 medium onions chopped 
2 cups finely chopped celery 

Drain off excess fat 

2. Add: salt, pepper 

1 tbsp chili peppers 
1 tbsp oregeno 
1 tsp garlic salt 
100 oz can tomatoes (chop) 

48 oz can tomato soup 
Water as necessary to make a 
thick sauce 

3. Simmer in oven uncovered at 300° 
for 2-g- - 3 hours 

4. Add: 100 oz can kidney beans 

100 oz can pork and beans 

5. Simmer another -J- hour 
Serve over rice 


HUNGARIAN GOULASH 

40 servings 

Trim the fat from 15 lbs stewing beef 
and cut into 1" cubes. 

Brown 2 lbs sliced onions in margarine 

Add: meat 

2 tbsp paprika 

3 tbsp salt 

2 green peppers cut into strips 

Simmer until meat browns then add 

8 cups water or vegetable stock 
and simmer 2 hours 

Add: 10 lbs potatoes, thinly sliced 
100 oz can tomatoes (chopped) 

Cook until potatoes are tender 
Cook 4 lbs shell macaroni and add 
just before serving 


SWEET & SOUR CHICKEN OR PORK 
50 servings 

6 to 8 lbs chopped chicken or pork 
(cooked) 

6 onions chopped 
2 cups diced celery 
2 cups chopped green pepper 
48 oz can pineapple tidbits 

Heat sauce: 1 cup vinegar 

i cup white sugar 
6-8 cups water 
1 cup soya sauce 
1 cup catsup 

When bubbling add -§■ cup corn starch dis¬ 
solved in 2 cups water; stir until thick- 
ned and clear. 

Mix two together 

Simmer 30 minutes at 300° or until bub¬ 
bling. 

Serve over rice or egg noodles. 

May be expanded by adding bean sprouts 


PlTNtSS L 

a Now! 


If you think fitness is 
a distant goal, 
consider this: 
you can walk 
all the way. 6^17 

parmcipacnonP* 


pamicipacTion 

The Canadian movement for personal fitness. 



-COMING EVENTS- 


Canadian Camping Association 
Saskatchewan Camping Association 
Ontario Camping Association 
Alberta Camping Association 
Canadian Camping Association 
British Columbia Camping Assn. 
American Camping Association 
Ontario Camping Association 


Fall Board Meeting - Saskatoon 
Fall Conference " 

Director’s Weekend - Bolton 
Conference 

Executive Meeting - Vancouver 
Conference 
"Widening Worlds of Camping" -Boston 
Annual Conference - Toronto 


Nov. 

1 

& 2, 

’79 

Nov. 

2 

& 2, 

’79 

Nov. 

9-11, 

’79 

Jan. 

24 

-27, 

’BO 

Jan. 

24 

&25, 

’80 

Jan. 

24 

-27, 

’80 

Feb. 

11 

-16, 

’80 

Mar. 

6 

- 8, 

'80 



SANITATION AND HEALTH 


departments of heath are now suggesting with increased urgency that camps 
have sufficient "ablution tables" (handwashing areas). Here is one from 
Camp Onondaga near Huntsville, Ontario which looks substantial, is out-of- 
doors and appears to have stood the test of time. The solid roof will pro¬ 
tect the children from the weather, a cement pad would be easy to keep clean 
and access from two sides increases the availability for use. 


10 












♦ 




Dispose of camp food 
service problems with 

royal Chinet 

disposable plates and bowls 

Strong, attractive Royal CHINET food service products help you ... 

• DISPOSE OF DISHWASHING COSTS 

Cut the expense of installing, maintaining and manning equipment 
that is used only a few months of the year. 

• DISPOSE OF BREAKAGE 

Save yourself the trouble and expense of buying matching replace¬ 
ments for pieces that crack, chip and shatter. 

• DISPOSE OF FOOD WASTE 

You get exact portion control with Royal CHINET’s wide range of 
sizes in regular and compartmented designs. 

• DISPOSE OF GERM COLLECTORS 

Royal CHINET products are sterilized when manufactured and 
packaged. And there’s never a germ-collecting chip, crack or 
poorly washed dish. 

• DISPOSE OF IRRITATING NOISE 

Disposable service is silent service. Meals are relaxed without the 
clatter and crash of china or metal. 

ENVIRONMENTAL ADVANTAGES, TOO 

All good campers want to protect the environment. Royal CHINET prod¬ 
ucts are manufactured from a renewable resource. What’s more, they’re 
biodegradable ... molded of natural wood fibres that burn readily with 
little smoke. Even if discarded out-of-doors, Royal CHINET quickly de¬ 
composes in the earth. 

Get the full particulars now. Mail this coupon today. 

CANADIAN KEYES FIBRE COMPANY LTD. 
HANTSPORT, NOVA SCOTIA 

Please provide me with details of the variety and costs of Royal 





CHINET food service products. 


f|M| 

NAME 


''<$r 

COMPANY or CAMP 

- — - J 


ADDRESS 



« . CITY 

PROV. kM 


inn 




11 








(cont. from page 3 ) 

13. Erosion - signs of eroded .areas developing should be dealt with and plans 
made to prevent them. Erosion areas become a fine program area for campers 
to see the results of poor land management. 

14. Reforestation - the planting of seedlings and small trees can be done as 
part of the N.A. program. 

15. Litter - plan adequate attractive containers and centers for the collection 
of litter and also plan for its disposal. 

16. Natural Crafts over-use - the use of natural crafts is very desirable, but 
avoid using living trees and plants for this purpose. 

17. Noise Pollution - attempts should be made to reduce the noise of motors 
and machines in the camp area and to have periods when campers can enjoy 
the "silence of nature". Silent hikes and canoe trips could well be in¬ 
corporated into the program. 

18. Water Pollution - avoid the spilling of gas and oil into Water areas and 
no waste dumped into such waters. 

19. Preserve natural areas found on the camp property - plan access so they 
remain natural. 

20. Plan visits to camp in off season periods - seeing camp during all seasons 
will help develop a greater appreciation. 

from Alberta Camping Association "Newsletter" May 1979. 




r*\ 


6TT6-800 NSSI 


ize wsw oiaviNO 'oinouoi 
QVOU 3HN3AV 9091 ‘2 3J.inS 





Dpoiw.7 np sduwj sap uopoposso 

UOIJDpOSSD SuidlUDD IWipDUDJ 



