Canadian 

camping 



Concerns About Canoe Tripping 


The following are comments which have been taken from the Society 
of Camp Directors’ Questionnaire regarding our thinking on matters 
of concern on canoe tripping. They are included in this issue as 
an incentive to thought and discussion as we prepare for another 
summer of adventure and exploring. Perhaps they would be worthy of 
consideration in your staff meetings this year. 

(cont. on page 2) 



OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 
L’ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU CANADA — PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 

SUITE 2, 1806 AVENUE ROAD • TORONTO, ONTARIO M5M 3Z1 
TELEPHONE (416) 781-4717 


1 


Vol. 32 No. 3 
May 1980 












m. ^ ^ i 






Concerns About Canoe Tripping 

we need standards, but let’s beware of setting standards so rig¬ 
id or impractical that we cannot function properly, 
nothing can be done when an accident occurs on a safe well- 
planned trip, but something can and should be done when the ac¬ 
cident is clearly the result of criminal negligence, 
canoe tripping is a very positive aspect of many camp programs 
further evaluation might include more on staff requirements and 
training, also, ideas on risk and its role in canoe tripping. 

_ _ I ID I _ I I I_ I __ _ D 

tended tripping 

tripping is used to reach our goal of providing a Christian ex¬ 
perience. Safety is the foremost concern. 

a booklet published by each Provincial Association should publi¬ 
cize existing standards 

existing route guide in Ontario is not accurate or specific 
enough 

standardization is necessary 

Alberta topography lends itself to a different style of tripping 
than encountered by some questions. 

prerequisites and guidelines must be established for leaders ta¬ 
king a group tripping 

procedures and route selection must be constantly evaluated 
I like to feel that children have a greater opportunity to reach 
their potential (through nature) because they learn to know 
themselves better 

over-publicizing of many waterways lets inexperienced or in ade¬ 
quately prepared people into the wilderness creating high risk 
situations 

the pioneer ethic is out of date and replaced by the wilderness 
ethic and minimal impact technique. Don’t push the trip, 
facility and resources to train leaders should become more readily 
available 

proliferation and dependence upon qualification - the majority of 
which assess skill but not either experience of leadership or 
judgement. 

statistically has the incidence of accidents increased given the 
vast increase in members? 



leaders should be confident and well trained 

constant evaluation of tripping program should be maintained 
thorough safety precautions to be practiced at all times 
constant route evaluation for suitability, skill and worth 
thorough pre-trip planning is essential 

standard tests are important for Senior Staff to know limits 
standard tests are important for trip staff to handle emergencies 
standard tests are important for campers to be aware that leaders 
are capable 

all trip staff must be prepared for risk education or risk evalu¬ 
ation 

trips must be limited in time and frequency to make each one a 
special occasion. 

tripping allows children a chance to "shine 11 who ordinarily 
would not in camp living. 

"In our province, canoe tripping is carried on by too many in¬ 
experience or unqualified leaders." 
canoe clinics are not taken advantage of 
preparation needed re: canoe flotation 

rescue from water 
spare clothing 

let’s not regulate it so much that it becomes impossible 
safety is most important 

leader's age and common sense are very important 
dangers of standardizing tripping methods/certification 

a) who sets criteria 

b) dogmatism in tripping 

c) bureaucratization and government regulation 

d) inappropriateness of tests to area/culture 

beyond the primary goal of getting to a less well travelled or 
crowded region, many organized groups from camps have not given 
much thought to their trips or to the area to which they are be¬ 
ing sent. 

lenient tripping requirements of C.R.C.A. canoeing standrds, e.g. 

- the key attribute of any %tr-i*p 
leader must be good judgement. 
This cannot be taught, but comes 
with experience. 

- it is important to be safe and 
skilled in many areas. 

- safety is an attitude on the 
trail, leadership to make criti¬ 
cal decisions in a trail situa¬ 
tion. 

- education is definitely needed, 
an acceptable recognized set of 
guidelines is also needed so 
that all our programs will con¬ 
tinue to seek to improve them¬ 
selves . 


too few days, not enough miles 



(cont on page 4 ) 



Concerns Abouf Conoe Tripping 


(cont. from page 

C.C.A., etc., must not feel accountable for the whole canoe trip¬ 
ping phenomenon! 

- I would like to have more challenging trips - not distance - but 
things to do. I think too many trips go from A to B without any 
further goals. 

much of the time on our canoe trips is spent developing our own 
campers into leaders. 

John Keats said it quite well. "Nothing ever became real till 
it is experienced..." ... the hiring of competent tripping 
staff is of paramount importance to the well-being of every camper 
Trip leaders, once they sever their group from the relative safety 
of base camp, have their responsibilities and concerns multiplied 
tenfold. 

- camps don’t often communicate their expertise well to the public 

- I sincerely feel that many camps in our area abuse campsites, the 
garbage left is terrible....the axe should be illegal 

it should be stressed in every camp that trips should be courteous 
when contacting cottages, stores etc. Pick up times which extend 
for hours should be avoided. 

all of the old standards seemed to zero in on most camps - now it 
seems to be the emphasis is on the few wilderness camps which I 
question as proper areas for kids to be without excellent training 


The above were responses taken from 
Tripping Questionnaire; Q. #139: 


the Society of 


Camp Directors 


"Do you have 
tripping in 


any thoughts or concerns on the matter of canoe 
camp s?" 



Property for rent - to clubs, 
community, religious, company 
or other groups for adult, chil¬ 
dren or family camping; 75 acres 
3 lakes, large wharf, diving 
board and tower, playing field, 
bulidings, electricity, central 
water system, former boys 1 camp; 
by week, month or season: near 
LaChute - 70 miles from Montreal. 

Call (514) 697-6242 


gSOGffgBB Gg&GDB 

( YOUR NAME IN BLOCK LETTERS ) 


Avoid clothing mix-ups 
and losses. Use colour-fast 
Identifab Name Tapes on 
clothing, sheets, blankets, 
towels, etc. To order simply 
fill-out order form below and 
mail . . . 


AVAILABLE IN 
RED. BLACK AND BLUE 

PRICES 50 $ 4.00 

100 $ 4.50 

150 $ 5.75 


(Delivery one week approximately) No phone orders — No C.O.D. please) 


IDENTIFAB LABELS REG’D 

P.O. BOX 2308, DORVAL. QUEBEC H9S 3H0 


PLEASE SEND ME . 


PRICE _ 


COLOUR. 


ENCLOSED IS CHEQUE OR MONEY ORDER IN THE AMOUNT OF $ . 
AND MADE PAYABLE TO: IDENTIFAB LABELS REG’D 

NAME - 

ADDRESS - 

CITY_ 


PROV. 


. POSTAL CODE- 


Ur 


PRINT NAME HERE 

(ONE LINE ONLY) 


3 


USE PLAIN PAPER FOR ADDITIONAL ORDERS 


4 








The COUNSELLOR'S jPgg ® 
characteristics of © good counsellor 


PATIENCE : This is one of the most important qualities 

to develop as a counsellor. Younger campers often re¬ 
quire more patience than the older ones. They will imi¬ 
tate your behavior and will have an easier time camping 
with themselves if you can be "cool 11 and calm when a 
problem develops. 

FAIRNESS : Showing favoritism toward one of more campers 

is often difficult to avoid. Doing so is one of the best 
ways to lose their respect. Challenge those you favor - 
he sure you are including all of your campers in your 
plans and in your attention. 

SELF-CONTROL: If the campers see you are trying to con¬ 

trol your frustrations or your impatience with a camper 
who is deliberately provoking you, then you are setting an 
example which they may learn from. They will respect you 
more for trying to understand and help them. 



RELIABILITY: Your campers need to be able to count on you for.... 

a predictable reaction to their behavior 
knowing where you are in case they need you 
- being sure in their own minds that you will be able to resolve any difficul¬ 
ties in which you may find yourselves, 
dealing with each of them as important individuals. 

IMAGINATION : Campers love counsellors who give imaginative leadership. Be pre¬ 

pared for.... rainy days - initiating a stimulating conversation at the table - 
having a story to tell at bed-time which will cause them to look forward to even this 
sometimes dull part of the day.' 

HONESTY: This is another "most desirable" characteristic. Kids "sense" whether 

you are being honest with them - they do this better than most adults. If they take 
you into their confidence alone or collectively be sure you do not break it or you 
could very well break all the belief they have in you. They want to know when they 
are doing well - and when they are doing poorly; tell them gently but honestly. 

IDEALISTIC: Their potential should be your limit . Set high standards from the 

first day - it is easy to "let up" but very difficult to effectively "crack down". 

Let them know what you expect then have them reach for that goal. Be careful that 
your standards for their behavior is no lower than your own. 

ENTHUSIASM : Certainly one of the most challenging characteristics of a counsel¬ 

lor yet one of the most essential. If you are not keen how can you expect your 
campers to be so?. Even though you are "feeling so far down that you have to reach 
up to touch bottom" - don’t let the kids know. They are at Camp for fun - don’t 
let the fact that your may be a bit spoiled by a bad day effect theirs. 


5 



Executive Director 


The Campers are coming, Hurrah! Hurrah! 


Marjorie Booth 


As we approach Pre-camp and the arrival of our campers, the activity level is 
really high for you all. Remember to take time every day for yourself. Your 
role as Camp Director and Senior Staff members will be more rewarding than it 
is "draining". 

For all Camp Directors and Leaders, I want to share these thoughts! 

BLESSED IS THE LEADER 


BLESSED is the leader who has not sought the high places, 
but who has been drafted into service because of his ability 
and willingness to serve. 

BLESSED is the leader who knows where he is going, why he 
is going and how to get there. 

BLESSED is the leader who knows no discouragement, who 
presents no alibi. 

BLESSED is the leader who knows how to lead without being 
dictatorial; true leaders are humble* 

BLESSED is the leader who seeks for the best for those he 
serves. 

BLESSED is the leader who leads for the good of the most 
concerned, and not for the personal gratification of his 
own ideas. 

BLESSED is the leader who develops leaders while leading. 

BLESSED is the leader who marches with the group, interprets 
correctly the signs on the pathway that leades to success. 

BLESSED is the leader who has his head in the clouds but his 
feet on the ground. 

BLESSED is the leader who considers leadership an opportunity 
for service. 

Author Unknown 


Have a good summer! 


SERVICE AGENCY DIRECTOR/CAMP DIRECTOR 


People oriented/strong administrative background in residence/camp operation. 
Knowledge of maintenance/housekeeping standards - successful counsellor. Public 
speaking/fund-raising skills. The above applicant is available now. Interested 
parties please write to: Box 404, C.C.A. 1806 Avenue Rd., Toronto, Ont. M5M 3Z1 


6 






The following Emergency Procedures were distributed by the Ontario Camping Asso¬ 
ciation to all their member camps. They are reprinted here in the hopes that they 
may be of help to others who may wish to formulate similar recommendations. 

RECOMMENDED ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN BY A CAMP DIRECTOR IN THE EVENT OF SERIOUS ACCIDENT 

OR DEATH ON THE CAMP PROPERTY 

1. Determine exact nature of emergency 

2. Ascertain correct emergency care is in process. If death has occurred, cover 
body and keep others away from the scene. 

3. Begin to log each action; both the time and prodedure, including all phone calls, 
etc. 

4. Summon appropriate auxiliary services. In order to get help, the following 
must be given: 

A. Nature of emergency - drowning, fire, lost person, etc. 

B. Name(s) and brief description(s) if a single or small number of persons 
involved. 

C. Assistance required - police, resuscitator, fire fighting equipment, etc. 

5. Call your legal counsel if appropriate. 

6. Call police, if appropriate. In the case of death, police MUST be called. 

7. Inform staff of essential facts and advise them how to deal with auxiliary 

services, campers, etc. 

8. Inform campers of essential facts. 

9. Ensure full cooperation being given auxiliary services 

10. Inform parent(s) or person(s) named on camper application to be advised in 

event of an emergency. 

11. Initiate preparation of written statements from appropriate people involved. 

These will probably include: 

A. Conditions as they existed prior to the accident. This would include 
environmental conditions - weather, numbers of natural objects, number 
of people in area, etc. Take photos if at all possible. 

B. Statements of persons on duty at the time of the incident. Each person 
prepares their own written comment. 

C. A description of the incident written by those closely involved. 

12. Seek advise from a lawyer with respect to the content and wisdom of circulating: 

A. a letter to parents or guardians of staff and campers, 

B. a press release. 

13. Only the Camp Director or his designate speaks to the press. 

14. Telephone O.C.A. President to give verbal notification within 24 hours. Keep 
in mind that O.C.A. people may provide valuable moral as well as material sup¬ 
port in such cases. 

15. The Camp Director should commence a full evaluation of all incidents. The 
following may be of help in completing this process. 

REVIEW AND RECORD 

(cont. on page 8 ) 


7 




(cont. from page 7 ) 

REVIEW AND RECORD 

A. How staff and campers had been made aware of the hazard (if any) that 
resulted in the accident. 

B. What safety devices were provided with respect to the hazard? When and 
by whom had these devices last been checked? 

C. What were the camp’s emergency procedures for such a situation? (Camp’s 
MUST be reviewed and understood by all staff.) What was the date of the 
last drill or review of such procedures? 

D. What specific instructions were given to staff when these emergency pro¬ 
cedures were reviewed? 

E. What are the certification requirements of staff? Is training and com¬ 
petency to perform and issue in this situation? 

F. What rescue procedures were employed and how effective were these pro¬ 
cedures? Were vital signs monitored from the instant of discovering an 
injured victim? 

G. What was the time span between the incident and the time help/treatment 
commenced? 

H. Who administered the treatment? 

I. Were the proper authorities advised? Was auxiliary service available 
within the time claimed? 

J. What arrangements were made for the welfare of others in the group? 

K. Compare written statements. Any inconsistencies? Any common problems 
or weaknesses identified? 

L. How could the incident have been avoided? 

M. What effect has the incident had on staff, campers, director, parents, 
local authorities, etc.? 

N. What has been learned from thh experience by each of: campers, parents, 
staff, director, auxiliary services, etc.? 

RECOMMENDED PROCEDURES TO BE DEVELOPED BY EACH CAMP RE: EXCURSIONS OFF THE 

CAMP PROPERTY 

On any excursion off the camp property, staff must be prepared to deal with emer¬ 
gencies, such as; drowning, injury, loss of life, lost camper or staff member, etc. 

The following steps may serve as guidelines from which each Camp Director can 

prepare procedures suitable for the staff of his camp. 

1. The person in charge of the trip should initiate all first aid treatment re¬ 
quired. Delegate those items best done by othhr people. 

2. Instruct the second staff person or an alternate to: 

i) Communicate the problem via the fastest method to the Camp Director. 

ii) Instruct that person sending the message to remain at the phone, radio 
or what ever. 

iii) That person should log the time of the call and the information relayed: 
who, when, where, what happened, what is being done. 

iv) Continue to log in and out calls. 

3. Having secured the victim: 

i) Make sure othhrs on the trip are secure and reassured. 

ii) Log (written) the time and details of the accident including the extent 
of the injuries and all treatments/procedures given. 


8 




4. Determine the next action: 

i) The Camp Director will advise re: method of extraction, etc. 

ii) The senior person on the trip must be prepared to recommend concerning 
the remainder of the trip, that is, to be continued, aborted, altered, 
etc. 

iii) If a major injury or accident has occurred and you have a camera; 
photgraph all relevent details - location, extent of injuries, da¬ 
maged equipement, etc. 

5. The Camp Director or designate will be responsible for: 

i) notifying next of kin 

ii) talking to authorities 

iii) notifying legal counsel, insurers, etc. 

iv) talking to the media - all staff and campers are advised to make NO 
statements, comments or opinions on their own. 

6. Continue to log (written) all details. Make no comments to outsiders as these 

may well be misinterpreted. 

7. The Camp stands behind its staff members and expects each member to perform to 

the best of his/her capabilities and training. 

**************** 


The following procedures have been adopted as policy of the O.C.A. effective 

February, 1980 

PROCEDURE TO BE FOLLOWED BY A MEMBER CAMP IN THE EVENT OF A SERIOUS ACCIDENT OR 

DEATH 


1. The Camp Director (or designate) must telephone the O.C.A. President (if not 
available, then any other Executive Member) within 24 hours to report the 
facts with respect to accident or death. 

2. The O.C.A. President must advise each member of the Executive by telephone, 
of the event(s) reported. If appropriate, the O.C.A. President may call a 
meeting of the Executive. 

3. No statements are to be made by any member of the Executive or Board on behalf 
of the Association unless approval for same has been given by the Executive. 

4. The member camp concerned must submit a report in writing to the O.C.A. of¬ 
fice within 20 days of the incident. At a minimum, this report must include: 

the name(s) Of the person(s) injured or deceased; the date, the time and loca¬ 
tion of the accident. A copy of the letter sent to parents of campers on 
such occasions would normally suffice. 

5. The Executive will meet at the call of the President following receipt of 
the report required in No. 4. 

a) The need and/or desirability of calling experts for information. This 
might be arranged in advance by the President. 

(cont. on page 12) 


9 



WoffooBieil Comp Ex©suiilw©$ ©r©up 


BIT'SMEWS 


As the plane lifted off from Toronto International Airport in 
the wee hours of the morning of Wednesday, March 19, 1980, I felt 
some trepidation about what the next few hours would hold* 

"Will they accept us? What will they be like?" 

I thought back to that historic, first meeting of the C.C.A. 
National Agency Group which met for the first time in the Board 
Room of the National Council of Y.M.C.A.'s on February 7, 1979, to 
explore the pssiblities of helping each other in areas of mutual 
concern. 

Late in the evening, as I again lifted off from the tangled 
spider-web of "Kennedy", I realized my fears had been groundless* 

Our friends in the United States, were, as always, most hospitable 
and gracious and welcomed me with open arms. 

A link has been made now, for the first time, between the 
parallel National Agency Groups in the United States and Canada* 

The groups have come together and have opened up a channel of com¬ 
munications between the leaders of hundreds of thousands of campers 
across the land. 

The opportunities for sharing are immense (even in the first 
few hours of my meeting there were many technical accomplishments). 
For instance, each of these twenty of so great organizations have 
their own lists or bibliographies of books and resources that they 
either publish themselves or have found out about from other sources, 
.... and this is only the tip of the iceberg! 

Another highlight was the initiation of an exciting discussion 
concerning the possiblities of Canadian Agencies hosting world-wide 
International Kindred Group Meetings just prior to or following the 
1983 International Congress in Toronto. 

All this good news is extremely inspiring, but the main purpose 
of this article is to issue a WARNINGl Although channels of communi¬ 
cation have been opened, it does not follow that they will be fully 
used. At the end of this article is a list of the Chirmen of groups 
with whom we now have official liaison. This is a wonderful oppor¬ 
tunity for all of us to increase both our own and our organization’s 
effectiveness in providing a good camping experience for children ... 
a mission to which we are all committed. I invite you to use it and 
the exciting movement will then just be the "naissance " of great 
things to come. 




NATIONAL CAMP EXECUTIVES GROUP 


Active Participants 
Larry Bagnell 

C.C.A. -Liaison w/National Agencies 
YoM.CA. Camping Service 
36 College Street 
Toronto Ont. M5G 1K8 

Armand Ball, Exec. Vice President 
American Camping Association 
Bradford Woods 

Martinsville, Indiana 46151 
Bob Banks 

Baptist Brotherhood Commission 
1548 Poplar 
Memphis, Tenn 38104 

Connie Coutellier, Chairperson 
Canp Fire, Inc. 

4601 Madison Avenue 
Kansas City, Missouri 64112 

Carla E.S. Tabourne 
Y.W.C.A. 

600 Lexington Avenue 
New York, N.Y. 10022 

Mrs. Marion Henderson 
The Salvation Army 
120 West 14th Street 
New York, N.Y. 10011 

Pasl Howells 

Lutheran Church of America 
2900 Queen Lane 
Philadelphia, Penn. 19129 

Charles C. Kujawa 
Y.M.C.A. 

291 Broadway 
New York, N.Y. 10007 

Mabel Hammersmith 
Girl Scouts of USA 
830 Third Ave., 

New York, N.Y. 10022 

Stuart Mace 

National Easter Seal Society 

for Crippled Children and 
2023 West Ogden Avenue 
Chicago, Illinois 60612 


Jerry Manlove 
American Lutheran Church 
422 South 5th 
Minneapolis, Minn. 55415 

Father Bob Rastberger 
Committee on Catholic Camping 
RFD #2 Box 360 
Hillsboro, Missouri 63050 

Robert Cagel 
United Methodist 
P.0. Box 840 
Nashville, Tenn. 37203 

Dale Olsen 

Director of Camping/Outdoor Prog. 
Boy Scouts of America 
P.0. Box 61030 

Dallas/Fort Worth Airport, Texas 
75261 

Leonard Rubin 

National Jewish Welfare Board 
15 East 26th Street 
New York, N.Y. 10010 

Frank (Scotty) Washburn 
International Conference Centre 
Administrators 
Blue Ridge Assembly 
Black Mountain, Notth Carolina 
28711 

Allen Sigoloff (PIC Camps) 

109 76 Chambray Court 
St. Louis, Missouri 63141 

Dave Wynn 

Boys’ Clubs of America 
771 First Avenue 
New York, N.Y. 10017 


Larry Bagnell, Chairman of 
the C.C.A. Liaison with Na¬ 
tional Agencies Committee 
attended the meeting in New 
York amd made this report. 


11 



(D 



Its problems follow 
the child to camp 


by Ruth Wort man 

H ow many children from separated 
families are enrolled in camp? 

Probably it is more this year than 
last—and will be more next year than 
this one. Everyone is functioning on 
the “American Scene—70s Style/’ 
and the growing divorce rate is a fact 
of contemporary life. Nothing and no 
one exists in a vacuum, not 
individuals, not groups, not 
institutions. Everyone is in it together, 
interacting and interdependent. So 
those individuals in organized 
camping would be wise to explore this 
phenomenon of increasing divorce and 
try to identify and meet the new 
challenges it is creating. 

With this in mind, the Association of 
Independent Camps (formerly 
Association of Private Camps) 
arranged a special seminar as part of 
its program at the Fallsview 
Conference held March 3 to 5,1978 on 
the topic of “Campers whose parents 
have separated—implications for the 
child, the parents, the counselors, the 
director.” This article presents the 
discussion findings to a wide audience 
of camping professionals. 

The overall conference program was 
chaired by Ernst Bulova of Buck’s 
Rock Creative Work Camp. 
Participating with the writer on the 
panel on separation and divorce were 
Louise Albin, an educational therapist 
and owner-director of Camps 
Kenwood-Kenmont, and Jerome 
Turner, an attorney and 
owner-director of Camp Ranger. 

The major themes discussed were 
the implications of separation for the 
child with an emphasis on awareness 
of special needs and feelings and the 
manifestations in the camp situation; 
that is legal implications for the 
director and further implications for 


the director relating to parents and 
staff. 

The focus of Mrs. Albin’s 
presentation was the dynamics of 
separation for the child. Utilizing the 
case study method, she emphasized 
that each child copes differently, and 
there must be varied approaches to 
help each child deal with parental 
separation. In addition, there are 
diverse dynamics operating in each 
family. All families handle problems in 
a unique fashion. Some are open— 
willing to talk honestly, and willing 
and able to discuss what is happening. 
This preferred approach helps the 
child to accept the situation, to 
internalize it, to deal with it better. 
Other families are more secretive, and 
the children tend to react to the 
situation in this manner. Another 
possible factor present in some 
families is the use of the children as 
pawns. 

Despite the enormous range of 
difference, a pattern of universals 
usually operative can be identified: 

• Children really want their parents 
back together again. This may (or may 
not) be accompanied with denial that 
things were pretty bad. 

• Children feel their entire world is 
falling apart. Adjustments must be 
made to the breakup, and frequently to 
a new home, a new school, and new 
friends as well. 

• Children are struggling with 
many types of guilt. They might blame 
themselves and feel responsible for 
the divorce. They might blame one or 
the other of the parents, and then feel 
guilty about the accusation. 

• Children have severe and 
crippling loyalty conflicts. 

• Children are trying to cope with 
fears of abandonment. 

• Children feel rejection. 

• Children worry how they can tell 


their friends. They may not want their 
friends to know. 

• Children have some awareness 
that the parent with custody is in a 
difficult position—financially, 
emotionally, physically. They may 
worry about losing that parent. 

• Children are looking for attention 
and male or female role models for the 
missing parent. 

• Children must learn to deal with 
new feelings of unhappiness, 
loneliness, anger, and resentment. 

• Children may suffer a loss of 
self-confidence. 

An important factor not to overlook 
is the recency of the trauma and its 
proximity to the camp season. If the 
separation occurred just prior to camp 
time, the child may feel anxious and 
worried that the parent is in jeopardy. 
He or she may feel a need to go home. 
However, another child may feel relief 
to be away from the troubled situation. 

As Mrs. Albin developed her 
presentation, there was growing 
awareness by the camp directors of the 
need to understand the dynamics 
involved. This understanding should 
enable camp directors to better relate 
to the trauma affecting an increasing 
number of campers and camp families. 
And in addition, it would facilitate 
approaches for staff training in this 
sensitive area. 

Jerome Turner devoted his attention 
and expertise to any possible legal 
considerations in the enrollment of 
children from separated families. He 
identified two major areas for further 
clarification, the collection of fees and 
visitation. 



Ruth Wortman, with her husband, is 
owner-director of Camp Baco in 
Minerva , NY. She was a guidance 
counselor in New York City elementary 
schools. 



12 




Collection of fees. Problems could 
and do arise regarding responsibility 
for payment of fees. When during the 
interview, the*director is made aware 
that the camper’s parents are 
separated or divorced, he should 
clarify who will pay for the camp fee. If 
the mother indicates she will, accept it 
and obtain her signature on the 
enrollment blank. If the mother and 
her new husband indicate they will, 
accept it and obtain both their 
signatures. If the mother indicates she 
and her ex-husband will, or only her 
ex-husband will, obtain both 
signatures as well as her ex-husband’s 
home and business address and 
phone. To avoid possible collection 
complications, it is advisable to obtain 
signatures of both natural parents. In 
the event this is not possible, the camp 
does have a cause of action against the 
father who did not sign the application 
and refuses to pay. The father is 
responsible for his child’s necessities 
such as food and shelter. The camp is 
not bound by the parent’s own 
agreement (such as the father’s 
statement, “My wife signed and 
therefore agreed to pay for the 
summer”). 

Camp visitation . Camp visitation is 
another possible area of difficulty. 
Again, the director should be made 
aware of the separation or divorce 
during the interview. (An inquiry 
regarding “more than one visiting 
day” is often a clue to separation of 
parents.) Turner strongly suggested 
confronting the topic of visitation and 
asking, for example, “Will the father 
be coming up?” If the director is told 
the other parent cannot see the child, 
further inquiry must be made. 

In the event the response refers to a 
court order or some other agreement 
relating to custody and visitation 
rights, request a copy of the court 
order document. Otherwise, it is very 
difficult to insist that a parent leave 
the campus. If there is no court order, 
the camp cannot stop a parent from 
seeing a child. 

In the discussion that followed, 
another camp director shared one 
approach he found helpful when 
dealing with the hostility of parents in 
this situation. He suggested pointing 
out to parents the implications of their 
actions by a statement such as, “Look 
what you are doing to your child . . . 
Look what you are doing to me.” 

The writer’s contribution to the 
panel emphasized further implications 
for the camp director relating to 
parents and to staff. The main thrust 
of the presentation was aimed at 
“Consciousness-raising—Making the 
staff aware of the special 
considerations regarding children 


from separated or divorced homes.” 
Hopefully, this would enable 
counselors to cope more effectively 
with problems that might arise. 

It would be advisable to make the 
staff as a whole aware of the presence 
of children from separated homes. 
Specific situations would be discussed 
separately at individual camper 
briefings. However, reference should 
be made during orientation to 
increasing divorce as a known statistic 
nationwide. Two cautions should be 
noted. The individual counselor’s own 
frame of reference must be taken into 
account. For example, staff members 
from certain backgrounds might tend 
to pass moral judgments on divorce. In 
addition, some counselors may have 
experienced divorce in their own lives 
and may find it difficult to be 
objective. 

It would be important to include a 
review of the dynamics affecting 
children caught up in the trauma of 
separation. It is wise to point out the 
“recency of separation” factor, and to 
caution about the wide range of 
individual differences. 

Another area worthy of examination 
would be the special needs and 
dynamics of parents in this situation 
and the possible effects on the child. 

As with the child, a wide range of 
differences is present in parental 
reactions. Nevertheless, a certain 
pattern could be identified, which 
might or might not be operative. 
Parents might feel anxiety about 
facing the unfamiliar and unknown. 
They might experience feelings of 
guilt (especially the newly divorced). 
“Do the children feel they are being 
shunted off?” “Am I thinking of 
myself first?” They might feel relief 
over the termination of endless 
fighting. Parents might resort to 
overindulgence, using the child for 
their own needs. They might pressure 
the child to take sides, playing one 
parent against the other. Parents 
might have unrealistic expectations for 
the camp director and counselors to 
provide the role model for the missing 
parent. They might turn to the camp 
director for advice which he or she may 
not be qualified to give. 

Two myths deserve consideration at 
this time. One is that a single-parent 
home is automatically a harmful 
environment. This, of course, is not so. 
The other is that the needs of the 
mother are paramount because she 
usually has custody of the children. 

The needs of both parents must be 
taken into account. The disruption of 
family life causes sadness all around. 
“Fathers miss their kids like mad,” 
said one parent interviewed. 

The staff should be alerted to the 


possible difficulties of visiting day and 
writing home. As stated earlier, the 
director should confront the problem 
of visiting at the time of interview. The 
provision of alternative visiting days 
makes it possible for the estranged 
parents to visit separately. The 
counselor should be briefed and 
should know in advance which parent 
to expect. 

The problem of writing home to two 
addresses should also be explored. A 
workable compromise approach might 
be to write the mother on one writing 
day and the father the next, rather 
than requiring two letters each time. 

The presentation of some practical 
guidelines for counselors concluded 
the panel on separation and divorce. 
When appropriate, the following 
approaches might prove helpful: 

Reassurance . “Your father and 
mother love you very much.” “You 
will always be their child.” “You are 
not alone.” “Others have felt this 
way.” “You are not to blame.” “Your 
troubles are not your fault.” 

Acceptance. “You are unhappy.” 
“Things can hurt.” “I know.” “I 
understand.” (perhaps accompanied 
by a friendly smile, an arm around the 
shoulders) 

Encouragement of an expression of 
feelings, and (especially for the older 
child) taking the energy, moving 
forward, and concentrating on 
developing one’s own self. 

Some precautions should be noted. 
There is always the danger of 
oversimplification. Every problem 
confronted by a child from a separated 
household is not necessarily related to 
that separation. The trauma could be 
used as an easy explanation and 
thereby prevent intelligent 
understanding of other possible 
causes. 

In addition, the above guidelines 
may not always be appropriate. In 
some situations, the best contribution 
the camp could make would be simply 
to give the child some experiences of 
stability in a period of personal 
turmoil. 

The findings of this seminar and the 
thrust of this article concur that there 
is no one answer—there is no right or 
wrong. In no way is it suggested that 
camp directors and staff members play 
the role of analyst or therapist. But it is 
strongly emphasized that many 
benefits can be gained from increased 
awareness of and sensitivity to the 
dynamics of separation and divorce. 
Hopefully, directors and their staffs 
could be helped in their efforts to meet 
the needs of young people and their 
families today. And that, after all, is a 
major objective of camps and the 
camping professional. □ 


Reprinted from the June, 1979 issue of "Camping”, 

the official publication of the American Camping Association 


13 




PUBLICATIONS 


The long awaited "Sing with Jack" 
book is hot off the press and the 
C.C.A. Publications Service is hap¬ 
py to announce that we will start 
selling them immediately. This 
song book, the first "Camp Tawingo 
Publication" contains the words 
and music to 37 favorite camp 
songs, plus notes for "actions" 
by the leader. 

Please send $4.00 for every copy 
you require to: 

Canadian Camping 

1806 Avenue Rd. #2 

Toronto, Ont. M5M3Z1 

"Sing with Jack" will be followed 
by "Campfire Programs with Jack 
Pearse" and "Sing (One More Time) 
with Jack Pearse". 



FOODSAVERS 


POPCORN: Most kids love it. Try serving it instead of bread at 

lunch or supper. It's less expensive than bread and also good for 
them. Popcorn is easy to make - easy to store and may be kept in 
reserve in sealed plastic bags for long periods of time. 


ICE WATER: If your campers are 

drinking very large quantities of 
milk or other prepared beverages 
try serving ice water (with the 
ice cubes in it) along with your 
usual beverages. This solves the 
thirst quenching urge - the really 
cold drink urge and cuts down on 
your cost of more expensive drinks 

DO YOU REALIZE ? Every time you 
serve Pancakes or French Toast 
you save your kitchen staff time? 

They don't have to make toast and 
something else. You have fewer 
items to handle and both of these 
breakfasts are very filling. For 

a change use a package of frozen or some fresh blueberries in the pan 
cakes. It turns an otherwise ordinary breakfast into something spe¬ 
cial . 





14 









Pisp@s@ df oonip food 

serene© profotas with 



Strong, attractive Royal CHINET food service products help you ... 

© DISPOSE OF DISHWASHING COSTS 

Cut the expense of installing, maintaining and manning equipment 
that is used only a few months of the year. 

© DISPOSE OF BREAKAGE 

Save yourself the trouble and expense of buying matching replace¬ 
ments for pieces that crack, chip and shatter. 

© DISPOSE OF FOOD WASTE 

You get exact portion control with Royal CHINET’s wide range of 
sizes in regular and compartmented designs. 

© DISPOSE OF GERM COLLECTORS 

Royal CHINET products are sterilized when manufactured and 
packaged. And there’s never a germ-collecting chip, crack or 
poorly washed dish. 

O DISPOSE OF IRRITATING NOISE 

Disposable service is silent service. Meals are relaxed without the 
clatter and crash of china or metal. 

ENVIRONMENTAL ADVANTAGES, TOO 

All good campers want to protect the environment. Royal CHINET prod¬ 
ucts are manufactured from a renewable resource. What’s more, they’re 
biodegradable ... molded of natural wood fibres that burn readily with 
little smoke. Even if discarded out-of-doors, Royal CHINET quickly de¬ 
composes in the earth. 

Get the full particulars now. Mail this coupon today. 


CANADIAN KEYES FIBRE COMPANY LTD. 
HANTSPORT, NOVA SCOTIA 

Please provide me with details of the variety and costs of Royal 
CHINET food service products. 



COMPANY or CAMP 
ADDRESS 


PROV. 


i 



15 







EMERGENCY PROCEDURES 

(cont. from page 9) 

b) The position to be taken by the O.C.A. at the inquest if one is sche¬ 
duled. 

c) The person who is to appear as a witness on behalf of O.C.A. at the in¬ 
quest. 

d) Agreement on a press release to be issued on behalf of O.C.A. 

e) Content of letter, if any, to be sent to the Director of the Camp in¬ 
volved. 

6. Should a Coroner’s Inquest and/or legal suit be held following the incident, 
the O.C.A. Executive will again be convened at a special meeting called by 
the President. This meeting will be held following the inquest or legal pro¬ 
ceedings. At this meeting the Executive will formulate recommendations to be 
made to the Board for discussion and vote. The Executive will in these recom¬ 
mendations consider: 

a) Any action to be taken by the O.C.A. with respect to the status of the 
Member Camp. 

b) Proposals for changes in the Code of Ethics, Standards, and/or policies 
of the O.C.A. 

c) Stance to be taken by O.C.A. on each of the recommendations of a Coroner’s 
Jury. 

d) Methods by which the learning gained as a result of the incident mxgh't 
be usefully shared with the membership of O.C.A. 

e) Content of a press release to be circulated to the media in Ontario. 




> uosuqop *3 ruoTquoqqv 

l 'q§noj:oqj:8q_8j 

qd8Q S8ATqodV 

jCq-TSd8ATU£L qU8dJ 


4 » v 

I » 



6Iie-800 NSSI 


IZC »VS»V OIHV1NO •OlNOdOl 
OVOH 3flN3AV 9091 'Z 3iins 


npmma rip sdnw.i sap uoponosso 
uononosSD fhtiduwa umpnuvo 





| ? 


O 




