I 


r 















































PRESIDENT’S 

REPORT 

LE RAPPORT DE 
LA PRESIDENTE 


As I write this the CCA/ACC Board has just completed its 
first President’s Council meeting at Nottawasaga Inn in Ontario. 
At this meeting all provincial presidents and all CCA/ACC 
Committee Chairmen discussed the affairs of CCA/ACC for two 
days. Many exciting plans are underway and we hope that CCA/ 
ACC will have a positive impact on each and every camp in our 
association in the next year. 

As the summer season is finally here, and we turn to our major 
work of the year, I hope that the summer is successful and happy 
for you. 

Janet Adamson, 
President. 



IN THIS ISSUE 

FIFTY YEARS of Canadian Camping — a half century of 
growth and service. In this issue the Canadian Camping Magazine 
looks to the past for re-identification of our roots and re¬ 
assurance of our path. Articles include canoe trips in Algonquin 
Parks, counsellor preparation and staff training. There is an 
interview of Adele Ebbs concerning the work and legacy of 
Taylor Statten. The International Camping Congress is featured. 
News from across the nation, program ideas and plans for regular 
features start the ball rolling for another 50 years of great 
Canadian Camping. 

DANS CETTE LIVRAISON 

CINQUANTE ANS de de camping canadien — un demi- 
siecle de developpement et de service. Dans cette livraison 
le Canadian Camping Magazine se souvient du passe pour 
retrouver nos origines et pour ressurer notre chemin. Ilya 
des articles au sujet des voyages a canot a “Algonquin 
Park”, de la preparation des conseillers et de la formation 
du personnel. II y a une interview avec Adele Ebbs 
concernant le travail et le legs de Taylor Statten. Le 
congres du camping international est represente. Pour 
faire demarrer encore cinquante ans forts de Camping 
Canadien, il y a des nouvelles de tout le pays, des idees de 
programmation, et des plans pour les articles reguliers. 


Pendant que j’ecris ce rapport, le conseil de I’ACC vient 
de terminer la premiere reunion du conseil des presidents 
au “Nottawasaga Inn” en Ontario. A cette reunion tous les 
presidents provinciaux et tous les presidents des comites 
ACC ont discute pendant deux jours les affaires de I’ACC. 
Ilya beaucoup de projets et nous esperons que I’ACC aura 
un effet positif pendant I’annee prochaine sur chaque 
camp qui fait partie de notre association. 

Comme I’ete est enfin arrive, et nous tournous vers notre 
travail majeur de I’an, j’espere que I’ete sera heureux et 
couronne de succes pour vous. 

Janet Adamson 
Presidente 


CONTENTS 

Camping From Coast To Coast 3 

Camp Crafts 5 

CCA/ACC President’s Council 6 

Committee Notes 7 

Between The Covers 8 

“Where Have All The Flowers Gone?” 8 

Canoe Tripping In The 1920’s 9 

Cross Canada Water Relay 9 

Personality Profile 10 

Notes To Canada 18 

Under Open Skies 19 

Here Is Your Challenge 20 

Relay Race 21 

Summer 1986 24 

Canadian Camping Magazine Prize For Writing 25 
Trials Walking 26 


STAFF 

PERSONNEL 

Editor-in-Chief 

Jack Pearse 

Editeuren chef 

Senior Editors 

Jane McCutcheon 

John Jorgenson 

Editeurs sup6rieres 

Regional Editors 

Brenda McFarlane 

Liz Greenway 

Editeurs rfegionaux 

Office Staff 

Lisa Pearse 

Carol Sportun 

Personnel du bureau 

Printers 

Cober Printing, Kitchener, Ont. 

Imprimeurs 

BOARD of DIRECTORS 

Conseil D'adminlstration 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 

Les Officiers Executif 

President 

Janet Adamson, Toronto, Ont. 

Presidente 

Past President 

Jocelyn Palm, Toronto, Ont. 

Ancienne Presidente 

Secretary 

Patti Thom, Toronto, Ont. 

Secretaire 

Treasurer 

Skip Connett, Thornhill, Ont. 

Tr6sorier 

Vice Pres, (eastern) 

Ian Fowler, Moncton, N.B. 

Vice-president 

Vice Pres, (western) 

Jan James, Androssan, Alta. 

Vice-presidente 

Vice Pres, (central) 

Ken Willis, Magog, Que. 

Vice-president 

President Emeritus 

F. M. Van Wagner, Point Claire, 
Que. 

President em6rite 

PROVINCIAL REPRESENTATIVES 

Repr6sentants Provinciaux 

Newfoundland 

Frank O’Connor 

La Terre Neuve 

Nova Scotia 

Kelley Byrne 

La Nouvelle Ecosse 

New Brunswick 

Dan Soucy 

Le Nouveau Brunswick 

Quebec 

Collette Marier 

Le Quebec 

Ontario 

Fred Okada 

L’Ontario 

Manitoba 

Grant Blatts 

Le Manitoba 

Saskatchewan 

Penny Wingert 

Le Saskatchewan 

Alberta 

Bob Sperling 

L’Alberta 

British Columbia 

Jack Way 

La Colombie Britannique 

CCA COMMITTEES 


Comites ACC 

Archives 

Bruno Morawetz, Peterborough, 
Ont. 

Les Archives 

Professional 


Le D6veloppement 

Development 

Dorothy Walter, Toronto, Ont. 

Professional 

National Conferences 

Les Ateliers et les 

and Workshop 

Glenn Barned, Victoria, BC/CB 

Conferences Nationales 

French Language 

Gerard Bachand, Rawdon, Que. 

Le Frangais 

Fund Raising 

Jack Pearse, Waterloo, Ont. 

Accumulation des Fonds 

Environment 

Jean Funk, Sherwood Pk.,Alta. 

Le milieu 

Publications 

Nancy Barker, Willowdale, Ont. 

Publications 

Magazine 

CampTawingo, Huntsville, Ont. 

Revue 

1987 Congress 


Liaison du congr6s 1987 

Liaison 

Dave Sands, Toronto, Ont. 


Adventure into the 


Liaison du voyage dans le 

Past Liaison 

Cliff Labbett, Toronto, Ont. 

passe 

Immigration 

Barry Lowes, Toronto, Ont. 

L’immigration 


NATIONAL OFFICE 

Canadian Camping Association 
1806 Avenue Road. Ste. 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
(416) 781-4717 


BUREAU NATIONAL 

Association des Camps du Canada 
1806 Avenue Road, Ste. 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
(416) 781-4717 


Administrative 

Secretary Irene Knapp Secretaire administrative 


2 






CAMPING: 


From Coast To Coast 
D’une C6te A L’Autre 





REPORT FROM IAN FOWLER D’aprds Ian Fowler 

ATLANTIC REGION VICE-PRESIDENT Vice president de la region de I’Atlantique 


by Ian Fowler — Atlantic Region Vice-President 

The three provincial camping associations comprising the 
Atlantic Region all have new faces at the helm following recent 
annual meetings. For specific news of activities in these three 
provinces, check the individual reports below. 

Although Prince Edward Island does not have a provincial 
camping association at this time, efforts are continuing to 
establish such an organization, or to have their camps affiliate 
with N.B.C.A. or C.A.N.S. Perhaps my next column will have 
more concrete information on this subject. 

Even though all the Atlantic Associations are enjoying positive 
experiences, the highlight of the year is yet to come as the 
Canadian Camping Association in conjunction with N.B.C.A. 
will be hosting a Regional Conference, October 3 - 5 in Moncton. 
To add to the spice of the Regional Conference, Michael 
Brandwein, from Chicago, has been secured as the weekend’s 
keynote speaker. Having already inspired many Canadian 
camping leaders, it is expected the same will hold true for his 
journey east. 

Certainly the camping movement is becoming stronger in 
Atlantic Canada through the continued efforts of each provincial 
association, allowing for each camper who attends summer camp 
to have an enjoyable experience. 


Depuis les derni&res reunions annuelles, les trois 
associations provinciales de plein air de ia region de 
I’Atlantique ont vu de nouvelles figures prendre position k 
la tete de leurs conseils. 

Bien que i’lle du Prince Edouard n’a pas dissociation k 
I’heure actuelie, les efforts se poursuivent pour changer 
cette lacune; soit par I’etablissement d’une telle associ¬ 
ation ou soit par I’affiliation de la province avec I’une des 
associations provinciales voisines, A.C.N.B. (N.B.C.A.) ou 
A.C.N.E. (C.A.N.S.). Peut-etre aurai-je I’opportunite 
d*6crire la conclusion concrete dans ma prochaine 
colonne. 

Bien que toutes les associations de I’Atlantique 
jouissent d’agreables experiences, le clou de Pann&e est 
encore k venin (’association canadienne de plein air avec 
I’aide de I’A.C.N.B. sera Ph6te de la Conference Regionale 
le 3 - 5 octobre k Moncton. Michael Brandwein de Chicago 
a 6te engage pour donner le discours-programme. II a deje 
inspire plusieurs des moniteurs du plein air Canadien et 
I’on peut compter sur le m6me dynamisme k Poccasion de 
cette conference. 

II est certain que Pinterdt pour le plein air grandi de plus 
en plus dans la region de PAtlantique avec Pincroyable 
effort promulgue par chacune des associations 
provinciales. Un tel improuvement va permettre une 
experience des plus agreable pour chacun des enfants 
assistant k un camp d’ete. 


3 






NEWFOUNDLAND 

* From the east coast the news is good for a 

—v revitalized if somewhat far flung associ- 

1 X ation in Newfoundland and Labrador. In 

Newfoundland, Frank O’Connor from 
Memorial University, has assumed the 
President’s position and is supported by an able group of new and 
veteran directors. Throughout the winter months, the N.L.C.A. 
has been busy, holding a one day winter workshop, along with 
several informational evenings in conjunction with their monthly 
board meetings. Recently, upwards of seventy camping people 
participated in their Spring Conference. A trip to Washington 
D.C. is in the plans for some members of the Association next 
year. 

yv NOVA SCOTIA 

/jX\ After providing many years of leadership to 
the Camping Association of Nova Scotia, 
CJn n rVS George Matthews recently stepped down from 
the President’s chair, to assume the role of 
^ u ^ Past President. Throughout the past year 
C.A.N.S. has been busy taking a look at its internal structure and 
association objectives. This resulted in numerous executive 
meetings leading to the association’s annual meeting held on 
April 26 in Truro. 

An inspired group of thirty camping personalities was present 
to share their views on how important C.A.N.S. was to their 
camp. Kelly Byrne, the director at Camp Big Cove, operated by 
the Halifax Y.M.C.A., was elected president and is looking 
forward to future challenges. 

NEW BRUNSWICK 

HvvH There are some personnel changes on the 
W/ Board of Directors. With Glenn Bamed’s 

move to Victoria Gillian Young takes his place 
to strengthen an already strong and enthusi¬ 
astic executive. The New Brunswick information pamphlet is 
ready for distribution. It gets full marks as a class act serving 
french speaking and english speaking parents equally well in an 
easy and attractive format. The Resource Catalogue Directory is 
in its final stages of preparation. 

In New Brunswick, Dan Soucy has taken over the helm of 
N.B.C.A. and is continuing to move the association in a forward 
motion. During the winter months, the Association held a winter 
workshop with Bill March, leader of the Canadian Everest 
Expedition as guest instructor and a workshop on programming 
for camp committee members, at which Wayne Perkins from 
Alberta was the keynote speaker. The association recently held its 
first provincial camping day with positive response being received 
around the province. 

A NOUVEAU BRUNSWICK 

Au Nouveau Brunswick, Dan Soucy 
assume la position de president de 
1 I’A.C.N.B. et du fait, continue de guider 
I’avancement de (’association. Durant I’hiver, (’association 
a tenu une session hivernale avec la participation de Bill 
March, chef de Pexpedition de I’Everst Canadien, comme 
moniteur invite. Cette session fut aussi accompagrtee par 
une autre sur la programmation pour les membres des 
comites des difterents camps & laquelle Wayne Perkins de 
I’Alberta a donrte le discours programme. Ftecemment, 
I’association a vu sa premiere tentative pour une jourrtee 
au plein air regue ttes positivement dans la province. 


y Quebec 

A Dans I® cadre du programme d’acctedi- 

-WW tation, quatre consultants visiteront ptes 

de soixante (60) camps de vacances. Ce 
7 L ■ )( \ programme exige que les camps ac- 
ctedites soient visites tous les deux ans. 
Les camps de vacances qui ont connu des changements 
majeurs au cours de I’annfce (le changement de directeur, 
par example) sont 6galement visites. 

L’A.C.Q. demeure aux services des directeurs des camps 
et du public pour toutes questions relatives au milieu des 
camps de vacances. 

La rencontre estivale des directeurs de camp aura lieu 
cette annfee au Camp Trois-Saumons au debut du mois 
d’aout. A cette occasion, les membres souligneront & 
nouveau le vingt-cinquteme anniversaire de I’Association 
des Camps du Quebec. Le regroupement des responsables 
des camps des communautes anglophone et francophone 
avait lieu notamment en janvier 1961. 

^ The Quebec Camping Association reports 
and acknowledges the great support of many 
energetic and committed members. One major 
project now in members’ hands is the new 
/ r\ ^ parents guide and directory. 

This summer, within the context of the accreditation program, 
four consultants visit almost sixty camps. This program requires 
that accredited camps be visited every two years. The camps that 
have had major changes during the year (change of director, for 
example), are visited as well. 

The QCA remains available for service to camp directors and to 
the public for all questions relating to camps throughout the 
summer. 

This year the summer meeting of camp directors will take place 
at Camp Trois-Saumons at the beginning of August. At this time, 
the members will again celebrate the 25th anniversary of the 
Quebec Camping Association. The reorganization of the directors 
of the French and English speaking camping community took 
place primarily in January of 1961. 

ONTARIO 

All The annual Conference has been modified 

m P _ somewhat. Its format includes specialized 

| I I streams on the Thursday of the three day 

— —event. At the Annual Meeting in April 
several new faces stepped forward into committee chairs: Liz 
Greenway, Skip Connett—Vice Presidents, Bob Smith — 
Treasurer, Catherine Ross—Newsletter, John Jorgenson— 
Archives, Diane Blair—Conference, Don Bocking—Education, 
Lisa Wilson—Membership, Mike Southam—Public Relations. 
Upcoming events include the Counsellor Conference (very 
successful with over 800 participants—Ed), a Nurse’s Con¬ 
ference and a Special Skills Weekend addressing canoeing, 
environmental programming and outtripping. 

REPORT FROM JAN JAMES, WESTERN REGION 
VICE PRESIDENT OF C.C.A./A.C.C. 

by Jan James — Vice President of C.C.A. /A.C.C. 

All the camps in the West are looking forward to the summer! 
The economic situation is posing a challenge to Camp Directors 
as they attempt to recruit campers — creative camp recruiting is 
the key! 

In March — 

Alberta welcomed new A.C.A. President, Bob Sperling, while 
April saw Saskatchewan saying “hello” to new S.C.A. President, 
Penny Wingert. Best wishes go out to Bob and Penny as they 
begin their responsibilities. 

Several Spring camping conferences and Workshops have been 
successfully completed. Alberta is looking forward to 2 counsellor 
training events in June. 



Expo *86 is underway, and several British Columbia Church 
camps are being represented at the Faith Pavillion. Visitors to that 
Pavillion are receiving literature from those individual members. 

I am off for 10 days in June to visit on behalf of C.C.A./ 
A.C.C. Three days in Fort Smith and ten days in Yellowknife 
should prove to be exciting. July sees me home in Alberta doing 
camp visitations, and then it is off to Australia in August. 

Happy camping, everyone 1 

MANITOBA 

/ The new standards package is now being 

( ‘smiSv i completed and will go into effect this summer 
\ jpSHSr / ^ or those camps seeking to be re-accredited 

^It j s a pleasure to be able to pass on good 
views as well. The hard work of the Sunshine Fund is paying off. 
The goal is $100,000, targeted for the subsidy of underprivileged 
children to camp. The provincial lottery is also providing valuable 
support to the M.C.A. 


/7~\ SASKATCHEWAN 

St \, \ A spring workshop in early May was one 

of several projects on the go. New Board 
members have been and are being recruited. 
For more information contact Penny Wingert. Grants have been 


approved for several projects this year, one of which is the new 
directory. Funding is being sought for the 1987 International 
Camping Congress in Washington D.C. 


ALBERTA 

■ Alberta, too, has altered the format of its 
W Annual Conference and it reports great 
success this year. Currently, the A.C.A. and 
C.C.I. (Christian Camping International) 
are meeting to coordinate their various programs and services. 

The Association is also addressing the 1987 Health Act 
scheduled for implementation on August 1. It is trying to assess 
the Act’s impact on all of its members. 

Look for Albertans in Washington next year because a 
provincial grant has been obtained for the purpose of getting 
some Western Canadian representation there. 


BRITISH COLUMBIA 

Newfoundland is not the only province 
which experiences isolation problems. Time 
and distances affect us all and in B.C. they 
have generated some interest in a 1988 inter¬ 
national camping event between the BCCA 
and the Evergreen Section of the American 
Camping Association. 



CAMP CRAFTS 

by Brenda McFarlane — Eastern Region Editor 


Why do we use Crafts at Camp? As a rainy day activity ... a 
time filler ... a relaxer ... to make something to take home .. . 
to accomplish a new skill. Whatever the reason, we should choose 
a craft with a purpose geared to a particular age level. With 
children we all know that creativity holds no bounds. We as 
leaders must be enthusiastic and sell our ideas to the children — 
work together, learn together and much satisfaction will be 
gained. 

You may find a child who dislikes doing things with his hands. 
Do not force a child against his wishes but strive to find the 
reason for his reluctance. Perhaps it is lack of confidence or a 
desire for perfection, which should never be our ultimate goal. 
Try a teamwork project that could help this child overcome a 
hurdle. Working in a group is far less threatening than having to 
produce something on your own. 

Puppetry can be a fun activity 
at camp — especially for the ages A 
of 7 - 10 where imaginations run (» V] ) 

wild. From the simplest of wSK JJ 
puppets like the paper plate K Jr 

puppet to the one made from a 
styrofoam cup, craft stick and 

cardboard head with yarn hair, to \ / 

the most elaborate string puppets, U| 

little children will delight in doing v (J 

their show for the other campers. 

This story apron with its many pockets, 
g \ FEtT could unfold a dramatic story should the 
ft/j ) need arise. Especially helpful when working 
J puM jO? with very young children. 

Camp crafts do not have to be elaborate 
m ^ IPSJ or expensive. It has been my experience that 

r—| ^2^' some the best loved crafts were made 

from pine cones and walnut shells, rocks 
^ 5s==: === ===s:: ^ and other outdoor natural items. 


@o 

D@ 


One of the most rewarding things about working with children 
is just to listen to them — when I hear the expressions “neato” or 
“decent man”, I know that my crafts have been a success! I have 
captured their imagination and they, my heart! 

PAPER WEIGHT — Steam used postage stamps off letters 
and allow them to dry. Then glue them to a rock to completely 
cover. Once the glue is dry, coat them with a spray shellac and 
you have an original paper weight for Dad’s office. 

WALNUT SHELL SAILBOATS — As simple as this picture 
would indicate and always fun to see how well they sail. 




PLASTICENE 


- PAPER SAIL 


I— TOOTHPICK 


1/2 WALNUT 


OWL — Round pretzel for head, eyes will fill the holes, half 
cherries for beak and feet, walnut body and a long pretzel makes 
the perch. Glue onto felt or burlap and what youngster doesn’t 
like an owl. 

EYE GLASS LENS —* Save lenses from old eyeglasses. Trace 
the shape of the lens on a greeting card or attractive gift wrap. 
Apply glue to back of lens and press onto cut paper with design 
showing through lens. Using household cement, fasten a pin to 
the back and wear it proudly. 

PINEAPPLE — half a walnut plus half a small pinecone 
painted green for the top! 





V 


Susan Cousineau (Fitness Canada) reports as Skip Connett 
(Treasurer) and Jan James (V.P.) listen. 


Glenn Barned (National Conference and Workshop), lan Fowler 
(V.P.), Jack Pearse (Fund Raising) and Dan Soucy (New Brunswick) 
listen as well. 


A small group committee discussing recreation. 


Flight Training. 


Ken Willis (V.P.) stands in to advise a small group session. Frank 
O’Connor (Newfoundland/Labrador) takes notes as Kelley Byrne 
(Nova Scotia) and Jack Way (British Columbia) look on. 


Janet Adamson (Pres.) makes a comment on financial policy to (L-R) 
Frank O’Connor (Nfld. /Lab.), Kelley Byrne (N.S.), Dan Soucy 
(N.B.), Grant Blatts (Man.), Collette Pouliot-Marier (Que.) and 
Nancy Barker (Publications). 


CCA/ACC 

PRESIDENT’S 

COUNCIL 

MEETING 


Nottawasaga 

Inn 

May 1-4, 1986 


A General Session 


6 






Committee Notes/Les Notes Des Comites 


Archives Committee 

The role of the one man Archives 
Committee is to preserve a record of 
camping for all future generations. This 
can be accomplished by having each 
provincial association send its minutes, 
notices, programs, etc. to the Archivist at 
the camping collection at Trent University 
in Peterborough, Ontario. 

National Conference and 
Workshop Committee 

The CCA Action Plan directs this 
committee to run a National Conference 
every two years as well as travelling work¬ 
shops of a national nature in the same 
frequency. 

Because of the time required to plan, 
promote and produce an effective and 
dynamic conference the National 
Conference has been scheduled for 1989. 
The character and style of this conference 
is still taking shape and we are recruiting 
members and a chairperson for this 
exciting project. If you are interested in 
investing in the 1989 National Conference 
then contact the CCA Office. 

In the meantime the 2nd International 
Camping Congress in Washington D.C. 
effectively replaces the 1987 conference 
plans. Dave Sands is co-ordinating the 
CCA contribution with ACA. Look for 
more details on the Congress in this issue. 

A second sub committee is addressing a 
“travelling workshop” for 1988. The 
concept of a travelling workshop allows 
the sub committee to set up a specific 
workshop design dealing with specific 
matters and repeat it as often as necessary 
across the country reducing participant 
travel costs and time commitment. 

A third project is in the works—one 
which is a very exciting and worthwhile 
opportunity. This workshop, held in con¬ 
junction with the New Brunswick 
Camping Association fall conference will 
be conducted in Moncton from October 1 
— October 5. The workshop takes double 
aim at the new Camp Director’s Cur¬ 
riculum and at a Management Board 
Training Session. Fitness Canada has 
agreed to grant the funds necessary to 
bring one delegate from each province at 
no cost. 

This opportunity to inject your 
association with energy and stimulus 
should not be missed. Anyone who is a 
current member of their provincial 
camping association and who is prepared 
to act on the information of the work¬ 
shop when they return home is en¬ 
couraged to attend. The selection criteria 


for delegates (subsidized and non- 
subsidized) and a description of the work¬ 
shop is being sent to each province. 

The conference of NBCA is a bonus for 
workshop participants, especially in the 
light of its featured presenter — Michael 
Brandwein. Michael is an internationally 
renowned leadership and educational 
training consultant. He presents, with a 
dynamic and convincing presence, 
essential components of effective camp 
leadership. When you blend a profes¬ 
sional speaker, a professional entertainer, 
a professional educator, a professional 
lawyer and a professional actor, you get a 
professional camp counsellor named 
Michael Brandwein. 

As you can see there will be enormous 
amounts of information, material and 
skills that will be shared with delegates in 
the fall. 

Count yourself in and count your 
association in on the process of workshop 
— conference — growth. 

There are great things coming up and 
they are designed for you. Step forward, 
get involved and brighten the future! 

French Language 
Committee 

In 1985, a project attracted our 
attention — the publication of a list of 
the French language camps outside of 
Quebec. The publication was possible 
thanks to the collaboration of The 
Council of French Life in America. 
Twenty-four camps are included in the 
first edition and we hope to add all French 
language camps within two years. Your 
contribution is required, then, to help us 
identify the camps not included in the list. 
It is possible to obtain a copy of the list (a 
limited number are available) from our 
Provincial Association or from the office 
of the National Secretary of the CCA. 

Having been president of this 
Commission for less than one year, I 
would like to have representatives from 
different parts of Canada as members of 
the Commission. We presently have a 
contact in New Brunswick. If there are 
directors of French Language camps from 
Ontario and from another province 
(Western or Central Canada) interested in 
being part of the Commission, I would 
like to know so that we could develop 
some linguistic policies. In addition, we 
could circulate and share skills. and 
knowledge in French for the benefit of all 
of our fellow francophones. 

Gerard Bachand 
President 


Commission des Camps 
d’Expression frangaise 

Un projet a retenu notre attention 
1985, soit la publication d’un reper¬ 
toire des camps francophones hors 
Quebec. Publication rendue possible 
grace a la collaboration du Conseil de 
la Vie frangaise en Amarique. Vingt- 
quatre camps figurent dans la 
premiare adition et nous esparons 
rejoindre tous les camps d’ici deux 
ans. Votre collaboration est done 
requise pour nous aider a identifier 
les camps ne figurant pas au reper¬ 
toire. II est possible de vous procurer 
un exemplaire (en nombre limita) 
aupras de notre Association Pro¬ 
vincials, ou au secratariat national de 
I’ACC/CCA. 

Etant prasident de cette com¬ 
mission depuis moins d’un an 
j’aimerais avoir de reprasentants des 
diffarentes parties du Canada comme 
membre de la Commission. Nous 
avons prasentement un contact 
au Nouveau-Brunswick. S’il y avait 
des directeurs de camps de¬ 
pression frangaise de I’Ontario et 
d’une autre province de I’Ouest ou du 
Centre du Canada intaressas a faire 
partie de la Commission j’aimerais le 
savoir afin que nous puissions 
aiaborer certaines politiques 
linguistiques et pour faire circuler et 
partager les compatences existants 
en frangais au profit de tous nos 
compares francophones. 

Garard Bachand 
Prasident 

Fitness Canada and CCA 

Fitness Canada is hosting a four day 
conference on Fitness from June 8th to 
June 11th. Two hundred delegates from 
various facets of the fitness community 
will attend the summit in order to assess 
the fitness needs of the country now and 
in the future and to establish the future 
policy direction of physical fitness 
programs. 

Diane Blair (from Camp Gay Venture) 
will represent the CCA in Ottawa during 
the summit. She will be trying to interpret 
the new definitions for fitness in terms of 
the CCA. With Canada’s increased 
emphasis on lifestyle and positive 
attitudes toward physical activity Diane 
can present the camping cause as a natural 
choice. 

The impact of policy decisions at this 
level can be profound and we hope that 
Diane will be able to report of positive 
new directions for the shared objectives of 
Fitness Canada and CCA. 




Between 
The Covers 



Every learning disabled child should 
have the opportunity to attend summer 
camp. As with all children, these young 
people have the same basic needs ... to 
have fun and to be loved. The list goes on, 
there is no mystery to it since many of us 
have worked with these types of indi¬ 
viduals without ever realizing it. 

Doreen Kronick has prepared three 
convenient booklet guides for parents and 
camp directors. They are informative and 
brief. One is for camp directors of 
specialized camps. A second is a camp 
director’s guide on integration and a third 
is for parents of learning disabled 
children. 

The two camp directors’ guides cover 
the considerations and responsibilities 
needed to screen learning disabled 
children for their camp and what is 
needed to work with them. For a special¬ 
ized camp, experienced staff and the ratio 
of them to campers is important. Precamp 
training, then, is geared specifically to¬ 
wards the learning disabled child. 

For the director of a “regular” camp 
the question of integrating learning dis¬ 
abled campers can be determined by 
evaluating your camp program and asking 
the right questions. Kronick’s guide 
defines learning disabilities and then 
answers the common questions. 

The parent’s guide help the parents 
decide whether or not their child should 
attend a specialized camp or a camp that 
integrates these children into their 
program. Once this is decided, choosing 
the right camp for any child follows a 
similar route. Eventually, many of the 
same questions apply ... Is my child 
ready for camp? ... For how long should 
my child attend? . . . and how will I pay 
for camp? 

Once the parent has decided on a few 
potential camps, a parent-director 
interview and child-director orientation 
session would help. Kronick gives guide¬ 
lines to both the parent and camp director 
on potential questions and expectations. 


Doreen Kronick a 6crit trois guides 
utiles pour les parents des enfants 
avec les probtemes d’apprentissage, 
pour les directurs de camps qui 
consid^rent I’integration de ces 
enfants et pour les directeurs des 
camps specializes. 


Don’t miss these informative guides! 
Camp Directors’ Guide on Integration 
CACALD/ACETA, 50 p., 1984 (mem¬ 
bers $2.90, non - members $3.45 ) 


Guide for Directors of Specialized Camps 
CACALD/ACETA, 38 p., 1984. (mem¬ 
bers $3.30, non-members $$3.95) 

Parents’ Guide to Camping CACALD/ 
ACETA, 24 p., 1984. (members price 
$3.30, non-members price $3.95) 


New AdditionstoCGA 
Catalogue 

De Nouvelles Augmentations; du 

Nastawgan Betelgeuse Books, 231 pp., 
198$ (hard cover) 

The Canadian North by Canoe add 
Snowshoe. A collection of Historical 
Essays. Edited by Bruce W, Hodgrns 
and Margaret Hobbs $29.95 ($35.95); 

Orders that are $20.00 or less must be 
prepaid with $2.00 added for shippih|. 
Contact the CCA office by mail or phone: 
Canadian Camping Association 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario 
M5M 3Z1 
(416) 781-4717 


“SOME THOUGHTS 
FOR THE DAY” 

What a misfortune it would be ... if we 
could only work happily with those who 
saw things as we do. 

— Jane Erskine Stuart 

Even if you’re on the right track, you’ll 
get run over if you just sit there. 

— Will Rogers 

To feel you have done what should be 
done raises you in your own eyes. 

— Eugene Delacroix 

Nobody is sicker than a counsellor who is 
sick on a day off. 

— Ray Bowers 

You gotta do unto others as you would 
have others do unto you. And with 
thoughts like that running through your 
head, there’s nothing good that you can’t 
do. 

from the song 
“Talk About Peace ” 
by Joe Lawrence Hampson 


“Where Have All The Flowers Gone?” 

Do you remember Peter, Paul and Mary? Who, over 35 — or is it 40, could forget 
them? The youngsters — those under 35, or is it 40 — certainly know the legacy — 
“Puff the Magic Dragon”, “Where Have All the Flowers Gone”, “Kisses Sweeter than 
Wine”. Many of these wonderful songs of the folk era are sung around our campfires. 

But wait! These people are old! Old people don’t sing folk songs! Peter and Paul are 
going bald, and is that gray I see in the hair which they still have? Glasses? Mary, her 
figure bordering on the matronly, has lost the bloom of youth. What has happened? 

Reeling with the shock of seeing these aging idols of my university days, I closed my 
eyes. Only the music — miraculously the years disappeared; it had the same magic, the 
same intensity, it wove the same magic spell as it did all those years ago when my world 
was young. 

“But,” I hear you cry, “What has this to do with camping. This magazine doesn’t 
carry T.V. program reviews.” 

It is good to cast our minds back now and then — back to those days known 
somewhat cynically as “the good old days,” — the days when life was simpler. Our 
predecessors didn’t have to worry about drugs, or complicated government forms, or 
medical examinations for foreign staff, or how to weave campers away from a life 
centered around television, computers and video games. They didn’t have to worry 
about coping with children from single parent families or deal with the inner hurt at 
seeing the change in an old camper whose parents had divorced over the winter, leaving 
her hanging in a world of divided loyalties. Yes, times have changed, the problems 
which campers have to cope with in their growing up has changed. The world has aged, 
and so have our campers in that the innocence of childhood is being denied them by the 
course of society. They are so much more aware. 

But wait! Close your eyes — travel back to your own “singing wilderness” — do you 
hear it! Laughter, songs, voices calling out in joy, white sails dancing on the lake, 
canoes softly slipping towards a cruising loon. The magic is still there. The magic of 
childhood has almost, but not quite, been stolen away from these children. It is we who 
can see the aging of the world who have the capacity not only to see, but to recreate the 
magic that we know is there, there within those children. We know this, but it is so easy 
to say, “the children come from a different world and we must adapt.” Adapt, yes, but 
how? It is too easy to fall into the trap of just “modernizing” our camps — more 
movies, more equipment, take out the tents, build the cabins, put in electricity, running 
water, more, more, more. 

We all recognize that children are still children, as they have been through the ages. 
Undoubtedly the culture shock which a child experiences in coming to camp is greater 
than it was in the past. Even our staff members find this, more than we did as young 
counsellors. Herein lies the challenge — we must work with our staff members to make 


8 











them aware of the depths of our philosophy and deal with the specific problems which 
arise because of this change of lifestyle. 

What is this I hear? A song about San Salvadore tucked between the old favorites? 
It’s new. It’s not Peter, Paul and Mary. Listen, there is a message; wait, they are getting 
a standing ovation for that one song, the audience is identifying with the message. The 
audience loves the old, but they appreciate the new because it has a valid message. It was 
sung in the tradition of Pete Seeger’s protest songs. The performance was enhanced by 
this and other new songs. The inclusion of new songs kept their performance alive — 
they weren’t just old fogies trotting out the tried and true for old time’s sake. Camps 
can’t just trot out all the old ideas for old time’s sake; we must recognize the need for 
new zest, but not by sacrificing the old — the things that our campers, and our parents, 
and we ourselves treasure. There must be a valid blend. 

The magic — we must hold on to the magic of the simple life — the life which 
epitomizes not only the escape from the city but the growth of awareness of the world 
around us and the people with whom we live. This simple life is good, it’s worthwhile. 
We must keep up with progress realizing the change in the background of our campers, 
BUT, we must remember the old magic and pass it on and not allow ourselves to be 
blown over by the wind of change. A tree bends in the wind, but held by its roots it 
sways gently and remains strong. 

Where Have All the Flowers Gone? Hopefully, they are in our “singing wilderness’’ 
to be enjoyed spiritually by our campers and to be taken home so that they might have 
flowers in December. 

Madelene Allen 
Camp Ouareau 

Les chanteurs de chansons folkloriques Peter, Paul et Mary ont recemment 
fait une tournee d la television. Bien qu’ils (et aussi I’auteur) aient vieiili depuis 
le debut populaire de leurs carrteres, leur message musical est toujours 
applicable & nos vies. Le message que les camps donnent aux jeunes reste 
aussi pour la plupart Inchange. Les chanteurs de chansons folkloriques ont 
offert des pensees courantes dans leurs nouvelles chansons. Dans la meme 
fagon, les camps doivent fusionner leurs deux messages, en combinant les 
racines fortes avec les pointes et les branches qui poussent. 


Canoe Tripping — In The 1920’s Adeie Ebbs 

Inflation is a word that is heard every day and it is a very important thing in the 
business of camping. In 1926, Herbert B. Bell, an experienced canoe-trip leader, made 
the following list of food and equipment for two men to take on a ten-day canoe trip in 
Algonquin t Parky \ry.•? 


Grub :b. 


Equipment: 


1/^.side bacon 1 ;; 

M% lb, cheese ' ,i : \g:" 

SMl lb; flour 

L rolledoats \ r=: 

3tfespprk c and 

15^3; tinsofjy yg 
f f "l\tin J peanut butter / ^ f % 
l ib: dried apples V * f f 

* LjtWs. dried peaches wS§ 
.. 1 lb-rice l 
'‘T'ib.- raisins 

lb. fiaaqarpni - -— 


y 1" bqx-.inatcbes J?; 
medical-kit^ X 
6 candles. 

2 small pails ^ ^ 
T frying pan^ 

2 cups ' J 

2 knives 

3 plates 
3 bowls 
2 quarts 

2 dessert spoons 
1 teaspoon 


; 1 -lb. dried whole milk 
j;'lbs. butter 
$2 carrots 
lbs. of sugar 
'' 4 loaves of bread 
tin, Crisco 

X^3^1br coffee 

1 -tin^syrup' 

/A tin pepper 

'JJ T tin baking powder. 

v 2 packsacks% 

1 length of rope 


Food 

Equipment 
Canoe (rental) 


$11.18 
$ 6.60 
$ 8.00 

$25.78 


Have a nice summer! 


(approximately $1.25 per person per day) 


Cross Canada Water 
Relay Planned 

The purpose of the Cross-Canada 
Relay is to promote recreational canoeing 
while paddling in an event which draws 
attention to a regional or local issue that 
affects our waterways. 

The events are as diversified as our 
country and its people. Listed here are 
some of the happenings; as spring break¬ 
up approaches, more details will be 
available. 

EASTERN CANADA (Duncan Ford- 

Director) 

The water bottle will be dipped in the 
Atlantic during ceremonies which Federal 
Minister of the Environment, Tom 
McMillan, will be invited to attend. 
Rendezvous at connecting points will be 
established between the Maritime 
Provinces and Newfoundland. The 
paddlers will have the packet in Quebec by 
late June. 

CENTRAL CANADA (Daniel Gauvreau- 

Director) 

The packet (containing a water bottle 
with water from each area, a list of par¬ 
ticipating paddlers and an item indigenous 
to the region) will be passed from Quebec 
paddlers to Ontario paddlers in Ottawa. 

WESTERN CANADA (Betty Donaldson- 

Co-ordinator and Director) 

Each Western Province will organize a 
paddling event but direct contact between 
paddlers may not be possible at all border 
points. The Manitoba Recreational 
Canoeing Association is in contact with 
the Naturalists Association, Manitoba 
Camping Association, Manitoba Outdoor 
Educational Association, with plans to 
hold a summer-time event. Saskatchewan 
will organize a June trip on the Sturgeon 
River Weir that emphasizes the contrasts 
between that historic route as it was 
during fur trade days and today. A diary 
from the 1800’s will be updated. Alberta is 
planning a North to South trip that will 
include school children and that will draw 
attention to proposed river rerouting. 
British Columbia has two brigades 
planned: the Northern one honors 
Alexander MacKenzie, the Southern one 
goes from Hope to the (Vancouver) 
Harbour and is a part of Expo. Each 
British Columbia Zone is competing for 
the Dirty Water Award — the winner will 
publicize the dirtiest paddling water in 
their area. 

The Yukon claims to be “on top of it 
all*’ with the best water in Canada and 
would like to meet B.C. paddlers at the 
border. In the N.W.T., the Slave River 
Paddle is a race on the August long- 
weekend and marathoners are invited to 
try the White Water if they have sufficient 
skills. 

Continued on Page 22 


9 








PERSONALITY PROFILE Le Profil De Personnalite 


Taylor Statten 

50 years ago, Taylor Statten of the 
Taylor Statten Camps — Ahmek and 
Wapomeo — was the Founder and first 
President of the Canadian Camping 
Association. Three years previously, he 
had Founded and was the first President 
of the Ontario Camping Association. He 
is the only Canadian to have been 
President of the American Camping 
Association. CANADIAN CAMPING 
MAGAZINE conducted this Personality 
Profile with Taylor Statten’s daughter, 
Adele Ebbs, a Past President of the 
Ontario Camping Association, Archives 
Chairman for the C.C. A. and O.C. A. and 
a long-time director of Camp Wapomeo. 


AE: No, Camp Couchiching was before Geneva Park. Geneva 
Park didn’t exist in the Y’s eyes until 1908. It was taken 
over by one of the Y men, or it was given to one of the Y 
men and he started to develop it into a training centre for 
young leaders. But at the same time, Camp Couchiching, 
which was across the lake at Orillia, continued to be a boys’ 
summer camp until 1912. I think that was the last summer. 

CC: Then it changed its site and its name too, 1 guess. 

AE: That Camp Couchiching just stopped and as far as I know 
it went up to Torrance and became Pine Crest. 

CC: Who were the people that influenced your father at that 
time, that helped him with his direction-setting? 

AE: I know that Dr. Crocker, who was a Physical Education 
man, was a very important influence on him. C.M. Cope¬ 
land was another man who was important to him and sort 
of guided him on the straight and narrow. 

CC: Did Ernest Thompson Seton come in at this time or was 
that later? 

AE: Ernest Thompson Seton? No, he was later. I don’t think 
he had anything to do with Dad until they were doing the 
CSET bit. I don’t think there was any Indian influence at 
Couchiching. There was no Council Ring at Camp 
Couchiching as far as I know or have any record of or any 
pictures. 

CC: Maybe we could return to Ernest Thompson Seton when we 
begin to talk about the Taylor Statten Camps. 

AE: Yes. 

CC: There’s a really interesting story about P. T. Barnum. 

AE: Well, Dad always thought that he was related to P.T. 
Barnum. The “T” in Barnum’s name stood for Taylor and 
he did come from the same area. I think Pennsylvania. 
Dad used to spend hours, when he had hours, in New York 
City in the reference library trying to look up his ancestry. 
I think he must have found some connection to P.T. 
Barnum at that time. And we always thought that was why 
he was a showman and always enjoyed the circus. He loved 
circuses. We had a circus at Camp every year. No matter 
what the theme was, it was called a circus. 


INTERVIEW WITH ADELE EBBS 

CANADIAN CAMPING: 

Adele, it seems so logical that, in the first profile we are 
doing for the Canadian Camping Magazine in our 50th 
year, we have selected your father, Taylor Statten, as our 
Personality Profile because he was the founder and the first 
President of the Canadian Camping Association. What 
were early happenings that led your father into a career in 
camping? 

ADELE EBBS: 

Well, it was because he was in boys* work, head of the 
boys’ club of the Central YMCA and, therefore, became 
Director of Camp Couchiching which was up near Orillia. 
He was full-time boys’ work man, in charge of the Camp, 
and they had a large Camp in those days and some very 
eminent people went. 

CC: Prior to that, his early education ... he was born ... 

AE: He was born in Erindale in 1882, just out toward Cooks- 
ville, west of Toronto, practically part of Toronto now. It 
was called Springfield originally and that’s where his 
grandparents, both sets of grandparents, lived. They came 
up from Pennsylvania. Dad attended Streetsville High 
School but didn’t ever graduate from high school ... I 
don’t think. As a result of that, all his life he was craving 
more knowledge. He used to go back to the University and 
take courses from time to time. He was always interested in 
learning and interested in reading. 

CC: So, after High School, he began working for the YMCA 
which takes us to Camp Couchiching. 

AE: Yes, I think so, because he worked in the Post Office when 
he first came into Toronto and then quickly got into the 
YMCA. 

CC: You talked about Camp Couchiching — the first Camp 
he directed. 

AE: Yes. 

CC: With the Toronto Central YMCA. Was Couchiching what 
is now Geneva Park? 


Taylor Statten 


Ilya cinquante ans, Taylor Statten 
des camps Taylor Statten — Ahmek 
et Wapomeo — etait le fondateur et le 
premier president de I’association 
des camps du Canada. Trois ans 
auparavant, il avait fonde I’associ- 
ation des camps de I’Ontario et il en 
etait le premier president. II est le 
seul Canadien d’avoir 6te le president 
de I’association des camps de 
I’Amerique. Canadian Camping 
Magazine a dirige le profil de 
personnalite avec la fille de Taylor 
Statten, Adele Ebbs, une ancienne 
presidente de I’association des 
camps de I’Ontario, presidente des 
archives pour I’A.C.C. et pour I’A.C.O. 
et directrice de Camp Wapomeo 
depuis longtemps. 


10 









CC: P.T. Barnum drew people to him, particularly young 
people, and your Dad certainly did that, too. 

AE: He might have had the odd gene there, somewhere. 

CC: His “showman” gene. His “charismatic” gene. Would 
you think that was the strongest part of his personality, as 
a leader in camping, his charisma ... his ability to draw 
people to him? 

AE: Well he did draw people to him, but I always thought he did 
it in a very quiet way. Mind you, he did have great flashes 
of ideas and was very creative in presenting new ideas to 
his staff, but he was always sort of in the background him¬ 
self. He didn’t mind dressing up. He would dress up any 
way he was told to dress up, for circus day for instance, and 
he thoroughly enjoyed it. I didn’t know him in the days 
when he was an Evangelist, which he was, I think, during 
the war years or after the war years before the 20’s. I’ve 
met men who met him at Father and Son Banquets and I 
have one reference in notes by him of, I think it was in St. 
Catharines, where he had them (audience, congregation) 
really eating out of his hand. They stood up and came to 
the front to confess and all that sort of thing. In my 
memory, this was most unlike him, but apparently he used 
to do it. 

CC: Did he ever employ any of those techniques with campers 
at Camp? 

AE: Not really, no. 

CC: Or with his staff at Camp? 

AE: No, I don’t think he did. This is why it is so foreign to me 
to think of him as having sort of an aura of influence that 
was unique. Well, it was unique. 

CC: It certainly was and dynamic, too! So, from 1912 until 
1921, he had moved from being the Boys’ Work Secretary 
of the Toronto YMCA and had done some work in Ontario 
and Quebec for the YMCA and Boys’ Work, but then he 
became the National Boys’ Work Secretary of the YMCA. 
I guess camping wasn’t a part of his life then, was it? 

AE: No. He used to travel from coast to coast, once a year, 
talking to groups of YMCA and Father and Son Banquets 
and so on, and it was a very hard life really, in those days, 
especially when transportation was so difficult. I remember 
vividly him telling me about getting from New Brunswick 
across to Prince Edward Island on one of these boats where 
you were strapped in. When you were in open water, you 
would jump in the boat and paddle and, then, when you 
came to ice, you would jump out and run it along the ice. 
I found a picture, not of him, of that way of transpor¬ 
tation. He travelled back and forth during the War years. 
But he didn’t do any camping. Our family used to go to 
Geneva Park for the summer and he was involved in 
leadership training there. Eventually when we discovered 
the charm of Algonquin Park in 1912 or ’13, we used to go 
there for holidays in the month of September with no 
camping at all. I mean no “paying guests” . . . just 
friends. Always a lot of them, I might say. 

CC: It was during this period of time then, 1912 - 1921, that 
SOS came into the picture.... 

AE: Yes, during the war. 

CC: SOS means...? 

AE: Soldiers of the Soil. 

CC: What was his involvement with “Soldiers of the Soil”? 

AE: He just organized, or helped communities organize, young 
people to go out and work on the farms, in the Spring 
and Summer, then in the Fall for picking produce. 


CC: The SOS people who replaced those who would have been 
there if they hadn’t been at War? 

AE: Yes. They were teenagers who were too young to go to 
War. 

CC: Now, was this an idea of the YMCA or... 

AE: Yes, I am sure it was. 

CC: Was it because his work was so strenuous that he decided 
it was time to establish the Taylor Statten Camps, or was he 
just ready in his life to do that? 

AE: No, the Taylor Statten Camps just grew out of the fact that 
he found this campsite in Algonquin Park on Canoe Lake 
and, with his international relationships with the training 
group, they decided to have a national leaders’ training. He 
suggested that it be at Canoe Lake, so that’s what 
happened. And it rained for two weeks, I believe, that 
first year. That was 1920. By that time, the Boys’ Work 
Council was YMCA and Religious Education Council 
combined and they were the leaders who attended. The 
group that went up in 1920 included Dr. Myers for one, 
a minister I know, and two or three other ministers. 
Moyle was one of them; Charles Plewman and YMCA 
Camp Directors like Ace Milks. That first year, the two 
weeks was just training camp but it was so successful. Some 
of the men had brought their sons up and that made Dad 
think, “Gee, this is a good place for young men to be as 
well as leaders.” Therefore, in 1921, he had 60 boys as 
paying guests, campers, and that was when Camp Ahmek 
started, along with the second National Leadership 
Training Camp. 

CC: Was your Dad still involved with the YMCA in 1921 ? 


CC: And did that go on for a number of years? 

AE: No, it didn’t go on for much longer after that. I’m not 
sure when it stopped. But in 1927, you see, he became 
involved full-time, pretty well, with Pickering College, 
so sometime in the 20’s he must have left the Y. 

CC: And what was the Pickering College involvement, in 1927? 

AE: Well that’s when Pickering College opened up at 
Newmarket. Joe McCulley was made headmaster and Joe 
asked the Chief if he would be on the staff as Director of 
Character Education, I think it was called. From 1927 until 
the War started in ‘39 and then, of course, he had Ahmek 
in the summertime. 

CC: Now Ahmek was started officially with 60 boys and the 
leaders in 1921, then the girls’ Camp Wapomeo...? 

AE: Started in 1924. 

CC: Was your Mom the first Director of Wapomeo ... or 
your Dad? How did that happen? 

AE: Mother was officially the Director but she was never the 
same leader that Dad was at Ahmek. She always employed 
some person to be the front person, the active person, the 
Program Director I suppose we would call it. And Helen 
St. John, who was a teacher at Jarvis Collegiate at that 
time, was the first Program Director and then at the same 
time Margareta Spence was there the first summer but she 
became the Program Director after that and for a number 
of years at Little Wap. 

CC: Then Adele came along! 

AE: Yes, pretty much soon after that. Little Wapomeo con¬ 
tinued to operate on the one little island until 1929 (no, 
1928) and then we spread over onto the Senior Island. 
When the depression came, we closed down the little island 
and everyone moved over to the big island. That is when I 
started to be active. I was head of the Junior Section of the 
Camp and started in 1931. 


11 



CC: Your Dad had just an incredible ability to gather around 
him people who were dynamic leaders in themselves. It was 
one of his premier strengths, I think. Let’s talk about a few 
of these people. Maybe we could start with Ernest 
Thompson Seton and then discuss some of the other people 
your Dad attracted to Camp over those years. 

AE: Well, in the early days Ernest Thompson Seton was one 
but he was sort of a “fly-by-night” in a way. He only 
came up for a brief time, but he sure had his influence on 
the Camp and on everybody. And, of course, he started the 
Council Ring. One of the gentler and very important 
people was Jack Miner. Jack Miner and his wife used to 
come over to stay at Little Wap with the girls and Jack 
would go over to Ahmek and do the Nature work. Along 
with Jack Miner was Ernest Thompson Seton’s nephew, 
Stuart Thompson. He was a Torontonian and he and his 
wife were much different from the showman of Ernest 
Thompson Seton. Stuart Thompson was a very gentle man 
but he was there for years doing Nature. Alex Edmison, 

I suppose, would be considered one of the very important 
early leaders and ... 

CC: Excuse me, just before we leave Ernest Thompson Seton, 
your Dad was always the Chief in Council Ring. Ernest 
Thompson Seton wouldn’t step forward and fulfill that 
role? 

AE: I think he did. I don’t think he would let anyone be Chief 
except Ernest Thompson Seton. 

CC: Did he precede Ellsworth Jaeger or were they contem¬ 
poraries? It seems to me you can’t talk about the develop¬ 
ment of Council Ring without mentioning Jaeger as well as 
Seton. 

AE: I am not sure about that. I know that Ellsworth Jaeger had 
the Camp of the Red Gods, and I know that Ernest 
Thompson Seton went up there. That was as a guest or as 
a visiting VIP and, of course, Ellsworth Jaeger was only 
there for a couple of years. I don’t know what happened 
after that. 

CC: You referred to Alex Edmison .... 

AE: Alex was a very supportive person from the very beginning. 
He was a great collector of campers and staff. His associ¬ 
ation with Dad began in the Boys’ Parliament, which was 
one of the things that the YMCA ran. I don’t know when 
the Boys’ Parliament started, but it was in the late teens or 
early 20’s and Alex Edmison was Mayor of Toronto. So 
that was how Dad became involved with Alex. 

CC: Alex wasn’t the official Mayor of Toronto, but as a 
youth... 

ae; He was the Boys ’ Mayor of Toronto, and that was 
probably in 1921. 

CC: So was he ever on staff at Ahmek? 

AE: Oh yes, for years. I don’t think he was there the first year of 
Camp. Woody, Frank Wood, was sort of co-director with 
Dad the first year but that didn’t last long. Dick Van 
Valkenberg was another early person. Chick Hendry was 
there, I guess, that second year at Camp. 

CC: How about people who went on into Camping themselves, 
like Ron Perry, Blackie Blackstock. 

AE: Bernie Hodgetts.... 

CC: All of those people were on those early staffs, weren’t 
they? 

AE: Bernie Hodgetts wasn’t an early staff member. He was 
there during the War. The others were on staff though. 

CC: And then, of course, Hedley Dimock had a big .... 


AE: Hedley came to Camp, not until the mid 30’s, I think. I am 
just thinking because his book was published in ‘37 or ‘27? 
no ‘27 wasn’t it? 

CC: Which one — “Talks with Counsellors”? 

AE: Yes, when was it published? 

CC: I don’t know. Ed. Note: Published in 1939. 

AE: I am trying to think of Hedley Dimock and Chick Hendry. 
Oh, it would be in the late 20’s, sure. And who else was at 
that time? I must mention Chubby who was our Business 
Manager, Dad’s confidante. The whole Camp would have 
fallen apart if Chubby hadn’t been there to pull the reins 
and everything else. 

CC: He was there a lot of years.... 

AE: He was there . . . well I can’t remember whether he was 
there the first year of the training Camp because he had 
been in ill health and was up at Mowat Lodge and that’s 
how Dad got to know him. He was in the YMCA at 
Capreol. 

CC: That would be a railroad YMCA. 

AE: Yes, that’s where he was as a Y man and then he became 
ill and spent a winter at Mowat Lodge. Then, he came as 
Dad’s righthand man and he stayed with him forever. 

CC: George Chubb! Then, there is a whole group of people who 
went on to become really significant contributors to the 
medical profession, headed by your husband, J. Harry 
Ebbs. Did they go to Ahmek as campers, as medical 
directors, as both? 

AE: I would think they came as Camp doctors. I was interested 
to know that our family physician. Dr. Thomas, was 
physician to Camp Couchiching in 1905 so he was quite an 
old boy when we came along. We had doctors, and I don’t 
know who got the doctors to come in the beginning . . • 
they usually came with their families. My husband, Harry, 
was in medicine starting in 1926, so he was a medical 
student and had contact with doctors all the way through. 
He was responsible for getting the physicians to Camp. It is 
too bad he is not here to say when he started to do that. I 
know there were some doctors who were not his responsi¬ 
bility, sort of old family physicians who came the first year 
of Camp. Gradually, all the pediatricians started to come, 
of course, when Harry became involved . . . like Wilson 
McTavish who was physician to Upper Canada College 
(retiring at the end of this month) and Gar Hamblin and 
George McNaughton and King Rowan - Legg. 

CC: Peter Turner? 

AE: Peter Turner. Well, Peter actually had taken over for Harry 
and continued to get younger Pediatricians to come after 
Harry retired. So, we have had a good crop of Pedia¬ 
tricians. 

CC: Is your brother Taylor a Pediatrician? 

AE: He is a Child Psychiatrist and never has anything to do with 
medicine when he is at Camp, nor with psychiatry. He 
discourages any patients of his to go to Camp. He doesn’t 
want to have anything to do with them then. He is in the 
Student Health Service at the University of Toronto, and 
still is at age 70. 

CC: Maybe this is the time to comment on the family involve¬ 
ment at the Taylor Statten Camps — Ahmek and 
Wapomeo. Did this happen right from the beginning and 
how long did the family, the three children, Adele, Tay, 
and Page stay involved? 

AE: Well, Page and Tay didn’t become involved other than as 
regular staff members until after the War. 

CC: The second World War, 


12 




AE: Yes, both Tay and Page were overseas and Page, being the 
younger, has not had involvement in Camp except from the 
financial point of view. He did a lot of finances for the 
Board for the Taylor Statten Camps and he has always been 
Director of the September Camp. His son is the active 
Director of the September Camp and his daughter was in¬ 
volved too. So he hasn’t had the operation of the Boys’ 
Camp. After the War, Tay went down to Johns Hopkins 
and then he went to McGill. When he got his McGill 
appointment, it was on condition that he would have 3 
summer months off. After 1946 or ’47, he was able to be¬ 
come Director of Ahmek. In fact, I am not sure when Dad 
stopped and Tay started but there was a period when they 
were both running the show. 

CC: And you became Director of Wapomeo when? 

AE: I was always called Associate Director. I never called myself 
Director while mother was at all active and her activity was 
very slight. She always went over to the Camp and stayed 
all day but other than sit on the dock and talk to staff and 
work in the weavery, that was her . . . she never really par¬ 
ticipated in a leadership role as we consider a leader. She 
always had the great admiration and love of everyone. The 
kids just flocked to her, and she was a grandmother figure, 
I guess. They adored her, and I have lots of pictures of her 
sitting on the dock with kids hanging over her. 



CC: As Associate Director, when did you begin and how long 
did it continue? 

AE: My last summer was 1975 and I was really directing it when 
I came back from England in 1938,1 would say. 

CC: Whew, that’s a good stint. 

AE: That was long enough. 

CC: And your Mom passed away in . . .? 

AE: 1969. 

CC:. I was going to say the early ’70’s. I remember her attending 
a Society of Camp Directors meeting because she is one of 
the Charter members. 

AE: That’s right. She and Mary Hamilton and Mary S. Edgar 
were honorary members. 

CC: Speaking about the Society of Camp Directors, could we 
go to the beginnings of Camping Associations and the 
major role your Dad played in the formation of the OCA 
and CCA specifically? 

AE: Well, in the early 30’s there were regular meetings, mostly 
social — Edgar, Hamilton, Halliday, Chapman, Cochrane 
and Statten, those six. 


CC: Let’s stretch that out now. You are referring to Mary S. 
Edgar of Glen Bernard Camp, Mary G. Hamilton of Camp 
Tanamakoon, Ferna Halliday of Camp Oconto, Ernie 
Chapman of Camp Kagawong, A. L. Cochrane of Camp 
Temagami and your Father of the Taylor Statten Camps. 
Charlie Plewman wasn’t part of the group? 

AE: Not the first part, but he was very soon after that. Those 
six were the group that met. 

CC:. And Arnold Ward? 

AE: No. Arnold Ward was never . . . see, these are private 
Camp Directors and maybe because Arnold Ward was an 
agency Camp Director ... What Camp did he direct? 

CC: Well, I don’t know whether he ever directed a Camp. He 
was a President of the Ontario Camping Association but I 
am not sure he ever did direct a Camp. 

AE: Yes and he was on the National Council YMCA. He was on 
the staff at Ahmek when Dad brought in some great older 
men including David Lewis and Arnold Ward. His wife 
died up there, as a matter of fact... very sad. 

CC: That was during the second World War. 

AE: Yes. 

CC: The group of six had early meetings.... 

AE: These six people used to gather at people’s homes. I don’t 
know how often, I guess 4 or 5 times a year. As I say, a 
great deal of it was social and anything they talked about 
was sort of trivial in a way because they had secrets. No¬ 
body ever knew what anybody paid their staff, for instance. 
They never discussed salaries, and I can’t remember what 
they did discuss. I was secretary, I finally started to take 
notes sometime before I got married, and that was 1935. I 
used to attend the meetings. Bill Chapman was there, some¬ 
times too. Well, then the Dansons were the next people. 

CC: I was going to ask you about the Dansons. 

AE: They came in next. Sadie and Joe would come. Then 
Charlie Plewman, yes, at about the same time. 

CC: Our records show that the OCA became a reality in 1933 
and then the CCA became a reality in 1936. Do those dates 
sound right? 

AE: ’36 sounds early to me but 1 ... ’33 sounds right. De¬ 
pending on what you mean by the OCA. They opened their 
doors to agency camps. Edith Calver of Bolton was one of 
the early members, 1 know, and R. S. McLean of the 
Religious Council was an early member. 

CC: I read that your Dad helped with the formation of the 
Quebec Camping Association along with F. M. VanWagner 
in 1937. 

AE: Well that is why I thought the Canadian Camping Associ¬ 
ation was not until.... 

CC: After that had happened? 

AE: My impression was that it was 1938. 

CC: We may be celebrating 50 years under false pretenses, 
so let’s not upset that apple cart. 

AE: No, 50 years makes it ‘36. Well, I’ll buy that. VanWagner 
was President of Quebec but he wasn’t President of the 
Canadian Camping Association until way on because there 
was Taylor Statten and then there was Mary S. Edgar. Wait 
a minute, I am getting a little mixed up between my 
columns.... 

CC: I am not sure that Mary Edgar was ever President of the 
CCA. Dais Gass followed your Dad, then Anne Vail, Ted 
Yard, Irv Haladner and, then, F. M. VanWagner. 1 think 
that was the sequence. In the early ’40’s, your Dad became 
the President of the American Camping Association. This 
is fascinating because he was the only human being that 
has ever been President of the two National Associations. 


13 




AE: Right from the beginning, he was very active always on 
committees and as a speaker on ACA. Yon know the 
American Camping Association, originally, was the Camp 
Directors Association and they were all private Camp 
Directors. Taylor Statten and Mary S. Edgar were members 
of that in ‘24 or *25 and they used to go to meetings in the 
United States. We were always members of the ACA and, 
as I say, he was actively so. He had a great many very good 
friends. Jack Cheley was one of them. I am trying to think 
of the others... Walton Johnson, Frank Bell, Ted Cavins. 
They were all close friends of his. 

CC: Your Dad did so many other things that weren’t directly 
within the realm of camping, per se, that enriched the lives 
of people, particularly young people. Can we talk a little 
bit about some of those things? 

AE: Do you mean starting in days when he was formulating the 
Canadian Standard Efficiency Tests, for instance? 

CC: Yes, what are they? 

AE: It had partly to do with camping, I suppose. It had some 
areas in it but it was a standard, I always thought that it 
was created sort of in opposition to the Boy Scouts ... it 
had to do with young people, young men, not children but 
young men, and giving them leadership tools and skills. 
They were called Tuxis Boys. The Trail Rangers were the 
younger group that came along after. They started in about 
1917,1 think. 

CC: I always connected them with the United Church of Canada 
which of course didn’t start until 1925 ... 

AE: No, it wasn’t just the United Church but there were church 
people involved in it. There were Methodists and Congre- 
gatlonalists. Church of England was more Boy Scouts, 
wasn’t it? 

CC: C.S.E.T. wasn’t church-based? I kind of felt that CSET 
was church-based ... not YMCA. 

AE: Something like the CGIT, you mean. 

CC: Yes. 

AE: It was to a certain extent, but I don’t think as much as 
CGIT. It was YMCA as well as Church. It grew out of the 
National Council YMCA I think. 

CC: So, your Dad became involved when he was the National 
YMCA Boys Work Secretary. He wasn’t commissioned by 
any group to do it, he ... 

AE: It just grew out of that, I think, and along with this Sunday 
School leader group as well. That’s why there was a 
religious emphasis.... 

CC: Was the Boys’ Parliament a part of that? Did it go hand in 
glove with that? 

AE: Yes, I think so. This is something I would have to check 
into but it was all at the same time and it was leadership 
you see.... 

CC: Not necessarily camp leadership but... 

AE: Making better citizens. That was sort of the underlying 
theme . . . the fourfold way of life started then with Tuxis 
because of its significance, the cross in the middle which 
was Christ, you and I, Tuxis and . . . that was ... I said 
that Dad was an Evangelist and he really was, apparently. 
He didn’t have a religious background as a child, to any 
great extent. They were Methodists at Erindale. I must tell 
you a story about my great grandfather Emerson Taylor 
who was a Councillor and he was an important person in 
Erindale. He really ran everything pretty much his way and 
apparently the village no-good died. The only cemetery 
there was the one up on the hill which is at the Anglican 
Church in Erindale. And the Anglicans wouldn’t bury this 
man, so Emerson Taylor bought a plot of land, quite a big 
plot of land, on the other side of the fence beside the 
cemetery up on the hill, which I have seen . •. and arranged 


that this old boy would be buried up there, much to the 
horror of everyone else who was Anglican in town. As a 
result, that’s where my grandparents are buried, up on the 
other side of the fence... I think they have taken the fence 
down, mind you, but I was there about 15 years ago ... no 
it must have been more than that, about 20 years ago, and 
there was a verger mowing the lawn and I told him who I 
was. His father had been there and knew my father, and he 
showed me where my grandparents were buried . . . sup¬ 
posedly on the other side of the fence. 

CC: Your Dad had an active role as well in Service Clubs, didn’t 
he? 

AE: Yes, in 1920, who was the man who was in New York? 
... Atkinson? 

CC: C. J. Atkinson with the Boys’ Clubs of America? 

AE: Well C. J. Atkinson became involved in Rotary. He 
decided he wanted to spread this Boys’ Club influence and 
get some help, so he got the Rotary Club in New York in¬ 
volved in it... in the Boys’ Clubs ... and when there was 
an International Rotary Convention in 1922 in Atlantic 
City, he asked Taylor Statten to go and speak, and I was 
there. It was a tremendous Hall and that was when Dad 
became particularly involved in Rotary. He and C. J. 
Atkinson ... after that... travelled back and forth across 
Canada and went to 60 Rotary Clubs in 60 days, as well as 
nipping down into the States every once in a while. After 
that, he became a member of the Toronto Rotary Club and 
was very active in the Boys’ Committee and was a very 
good member. He went to Rotary in Huntsville in the 
summer and to Rotary in Florida in the winter. 

CC: And the Religious Education Council, what was that 
connection? 

AE: Well it was part ... it became connected with the Y men 
through the Boys* Work Board. The Canadian Boys’ Work 
Board was Religious Education Council and YMCA and 
they had their offices together on Queen Street in Toronto. 
There were two men I remember. I can only remember one 
of their names and that was R. S. MacLean and they were 
active in the Camping Association too in the early days. 
Dad was not a church-goer in his later years. Mother was 
much more so. We had a certain amount of religion in 
Camp. We always had Sunday Chapel services. We con¬ 
sidered ourselves non-denominational ... we were non- 
denominational and we always had a lot of Jewish campers. 
Chick Hendry was very critical of us because we didn’t 
light candles on Friday night. Occasionally, someone 
would become very enthusiastic about Communion and 
they would have somebody come in from Huntsville. The 
‘good old’ Anglicans would want to have some com¬ 
munion. And we would have a priest come in but we 
wouldn’t have anyone come in to celebrate Friday evenings. 
No one seemed to mind. I once asked an old Ahmek 
camper, Ken Rotenberg, why he didn’t send his daughter, 
Rebecca, to a Camp for Jewish children. He said, “Adele, 
I send her to Wapomeo because it is the best Camp.” Of 
course, that made me feel very good. 

CC: You could put that into your brochure. 

AE: Yes. 

CC: Now, when your Dad was involved at Pickering College, 
did it begin in connection with a church? 

AE: It’s Quaker, it has always been Quaker. It was Quaker 
when it was out at Pickering and it burned down. There 
were a number of years during the first War when there 
was no Pickering College. It didn’t start until 1927 in the 
new building up in Newmarket. It is very Quaker still. 

CC: Your Dad was an evangelist preacher in his younger days, 
and... 


14 



AE: Oh, he would be a good Quaker, too. He dropped that 
sort of outward flaunting of religion ... if he ever did it. 
I can’t imagine he did but, anyway, he must have to a 
certain extent. I think that the Quaker approach would be 
very much to his liking. 

CC: He was involved when his brother-in-law Wally Forgie 
established Camp Tonakela in India. 

AE: Yes, Wally went out to India after his wife died in Calgary 
in 1925, and he went out as a YMCA man. While he was 
out there, he saw so much that could be done that the Y 
wasn’t doing that eventually he drew away from the 
YMCA ... 

CC: Why wasn’t the YMCA doing it? 

AE: Well they were trying to be so Christian that it didn’t mix 
with the Hindu ... 

CC: And the purpose of the Y was to develop Christian person¬ 
alities in a Christian Society. 

AE: Apparently... 

CC: And it didn’t mix with Hinduism . .. 

AE: That was where Wally broke with the Y because he couldn’t 
expect the Y to change and Wally didn’t feel that trying 
to convert the Indians to Christianity was going to be any 
good at all. So Wally virtually became a Hindu and his 
burial was Hindu, too. He started the Camp just taking 
kids off the street, and when we were in India I could see 
how you could pick kids off the street... 

CC: In the city of Madras wasn’t it? 

AE: In the city of Madras, yes. I don’t know where his first 
property was exactly. The property we visited was 12 miles 
out of Madras and when Mother and Dad opened Camp 
Tonakela in 1938, it had been operating for a while before 
that. It wasn’t called Camp Tonakela. It became Tonakela 
when my parents went over. Wally decided to name it 
Tonakela. 

CC: It is interesting why he did that, isn’t it? 

AE: Well yes it is. Of course he was a great admirer of my 
mother, who was the sister of his beloved wife, and there 
was in the Tamil language a word that was “Tonakia” 
which meant “you first’’, and he thought this would be a 
very suitable name for Camp Tonakela. 

CC: But your mother’s Camp name was Tonakela wasn’t it? 

AE: Yes, it was Ojibway. 

CC: Which came first? 

AE: My mother’s name. She was named Tonakela. Oh when... 

I guess at the beginning of the Girls’ Camp. She was never 
called Mrs. Statten by anybody. 

CC: What was your camp name? 

AE: Couchi, starting at Camp Couchiching, that was a nick¬ 
name. 

CC: So, Tonakela and Couchi. 1 know your Dad was involved 
in School Board Administration and we talked earlier 
about the SOS program during the first World War. 

AE: I think he felt badly not being in the War and was very 
anxious to make sure that the people who were not overseas 
were making their contribution and this was one of the 
ways that the Y got the younger boys involved in War 
work. It was during the second World War ... we all 
worked for the Red Cross. The SOS was Soldiers of the 
Soil and it was young people . . . young men I think . . . 
only too young to go overseas and they worked on the 
farms. 

CC: Now he would be in his early 30’s at the end of the War in 
1918... maybe 36? 

AE: Yes... 36. 


CC: What a legacy he left for all of us. Very literally, everyone 
in Camping throughout North America followed his 
leadership, followed his innovations, followed the kind of 
person he was and the kind of Camp atmosphere he 
created. It is quite a legacy. Why do you suppose ...? 

AE: The time was right I guess we would say. He had some 
very powerful friends in the United States in Camping. I 
wish I could remember all the names other than Jack 
Cheley and Frank Bell and Walton Johnson and Ted 
Cavins and there were two or three others, Horace Kephart, 
and . . . there is another man who wrote a book . . . and I 
felt that they . . . influenced each other. I think that Dad 
learned a lot from them because they had a longer back¬ 
ground in organized camping than we had up here. As I 
say, he and Mary Edgar and Mother went, starting in 
1911, to these Camp Directors’ meetings before the 
American Camping Association really was started. And 
Dad attracted leaders. I think he made sure he had a 
swimming instructor, sailing instructor and riding in¬ 
structor, canoeing instructor. Of course, we had the 
wonderful Bill Stoqua as the canoeing instructor and I 
have a brochure to give you on that. Dad was not an 
athlete himself, like the people he had leading most de¬ 
partments, and the departments ... the areas he was most 
interested in were the arts and crafts and drama and music 
and he was a self-taught person in this regard. He en¬ 
joyed seeing young people participate and present them¬ 
selves in musicals and then of course, he could see that this 
influence was being passed over to the campers who came 
to listen to them and started to admire these performers. 
Crafts was an area that my Mother was very interested in 
and we developed wonderful crafts at Wapomeo. 



CC: It has been said that camping is North America’s number 
one contribution to the field of education and Taylor 
Statten was irrefutably the number one leader in camping. 
That had to be partially due to the things that happened 
at Camp Ahmek and Camp Wapomeo. What program 
features of the Taylor Statten Camps do you think were the 
biggest influences ... the kinds of emphasis from which 
you measure Taylor Statten Camps? 

AE: It is hard to say, there was a ... in all the sort of traditional 
camp things . . . there was a desire to have excellence. I 
don’t think that it was overdone. For instance, we had 
good people from RCYC doing the sailing. We had riders 
who were of Olympic calibre. In fact, we had one boy who 
couldn’t take any pay or he wouldn’t be able to go on the 
Olympic team after the summer. It appears that those 
things just happened because of our reputation. 

CC: A large number of programs that started in the Taylor 
Statten Camps were picked up by the rest of us . . . the 
canoeing program, and that huge fleet of canoes you had, 
the outtripping, the marvellous emphasis on nature and 
environmental education, Indian Council and all the aura 
it had surrounding it. Those programs didn’t just happen, 
did they? 


15 





AE: Well because of our location, certainly the environment 
and nature study, nature hikes, we used to have shields and 
instead of badges we had bars on these shields that would 
give you number 1 in sailing, number 2 in nature and so on 
and so forth, and there was a lot of emphasis in the early 
days put on getting grades. That changed when our pro¬ 
gram became less stylized. I remember, as a camper, there 
were things that we had to do . . . certainly in the 30’s there 
was a psychologist, and who was the psychologist . . . 
Dewey? His educational approach influenced Forest Hill 
School for instance, and I think that influence came into 
the Camp because all the silver cups were put away . . . and 
the crests ... the shields stopped in the late 20’s or early 
30’s I guess. Things became much more relaxed and there 
was much more opportunity to sit on a rock and think and 
Dad’s idea of canoetripping was “smoothing it while you 
rough it.” He didn’t like people to just go out and be 
tough. He liked people to enjoy what they did and take 
time to listen and appreciate the sunsets and so on. 

CC: Did it really happen that way? That is quite a philosophical 
statement, you know. 

AE: He tried in every way he could to do that, and one of the 
greatest influences, daily influences, were his morning 
meditations which he did himself day after day after day. 
They were, I suppose, five minutes and they were always 
sort of the same thought with a different twist. 

CC: There was always a moral to his story? 

AE: Practically always a moral, yes I think it was Hedley 
Dimock that started the TOF “the other fellow,” but that 
sort of continued on through. After the meditation people 
would, and still do I think, put their heads on the table 
and listen to music and the music was usually violins, some¬ 
times cello, the piano was too jiggly. The strings were much 
more soothing. Some of the kids went to sleep as a matter 
of fact. I remember having a pianist at Wapomeo ... I 
guess we didn’t have a violinist that year . . . that was suit¬ 
able anyway . . . Agnes Butcher was playing for us and 
somebody said to me, “Oh can’t you get her to play some¬ 
thing less lilty and less dancy and more meditative after 
morning meditation?” We were starting morning medi¬ 
tation at Wapomeo too. So I spoke to Agnes and said “Do 
you know something a little more serious and sober?” The 
next morning she played the Funeral March and, from then 
on, we liked her better. We decided she at least had a sense 
of humour. Dad always loved the theatre and I think this is 
why the Council Ring because it was a spectacle and ... 

CC: It was a Ceremony. 

AE: And it was a Ceremony, yes. It was always done very 
precisely, very organized, and well planned. Some of us 
were in fear and trembling that somebody would do the 
wrong thing and spoil the atmosphere ... 

CC: There were certain rituals that were done at every Council 
Ring every time? 

AE: Yes, the beginning and ending were always the same and 
most inspirational. 

CC: If we had been able to interview your Dad today, what do 
you suppose his closing remarks would be if we were to 
ask him “What were the joys of camping to you, what do 
you recall as being the highlights of your career?” 

AE: Well I am sure that it was his association with young 
people that kept him going. He liked people of all kinds 
and of all ages; he had a great circle of friends. And after 
he became inactive at Camp, he organized things in his 
group down in Florida. But I think he really was great in 
his heyday . . . mind you I could see it dropping off during 
his latter years. There wasn’t the same sort of sparkle of 
enthusiasm, as there had been at his height. As I think 
back, he would paddle across the lake every morning for 


years before he got a motor boat. I can just see him going 
off and probably planning his day and having that few 
minutes to himself as he paddled across. Setting up goals 
for himself and his campers. He was always reaching and 
expected other people to do the same. 

CC: Reaching for ...? 

AE: Something better. Reaching for the stars, maybe. I don’t 
know. 

CC: Not only did he reach, he grasped many. 

AE: Yes, he had fun in him, too. He wasn’t all serious. 

CC: Must have been that P.T. Barnum “gene” at work. 

AE: Yes, yes. He used to always think that he had to have 
something every summer that was different whether it 
would be the fact that he got goats wandering around the 
Camp until they got too frisky. What other things did he 
have, did he do? Nothing stood in his way, we had all the 
small sketches of Tom Thompson come from the National 
Gallery. Now, whoever arranged that I am not sure, I 
wasn’t involved enough to know. We had these Tom 
Thompson sketches from 1932 or ’33 brought over from 
Ottawa and we carried them up to the Tom Thompson 
Totem. 



CC: Why was there a Tom Thompson Totem? 

AE: Well, he was drowned up there. 

CC: When? 

AE: 1917, in Canoe Lake, Tom Thompson was drowned, so his 
ghost still paddles up and down the lake on the anniversary 
of when his body was surfaced. 

CC: Your family had been going to Camp throughout that time, 
or at least camping on Canoe Lake, but the Taylor Statten 
Camps hadn’t started quite yet. . . in 1917. 

AE: Tom Thompson helped to build the fireplace. Chubby 
knew Tom Thompson and Charlie Plewman knew Tom 
Thompson . . . helped to carry' his casket up the hill as a 
matter of fact. But he was drowned in July of 1917 and we 
didn’t ever go up to Canoe Lake until September so we 
were not there at the time. Tom Thompson has always been 
a very’ important person in that part of the woods and I 
think that’s the reason that art . . . that Dad encouraged 
artists to come up and a lot of the young men who became 
pretty good painters always felt they had been influenced 
by Tom Thompson. 

CC: How do you suppose your Dad felt about passing on this 
great tradition of the Taylor Statten Camps to Tay and to 
you? Did he ever say anything to you? 

AE: Well I think he found it difficult, not to me because I was 
running my show separately. I think he found it difficult to 
see Tay taking over and Tay’s methods not being his 
methods. I think he found that difficult and I think that is 
why he sort of .... 

CC: Hung on ... ? 


16 




No, dropped out. You know ... sort of ... completely. He 
hung on for a while but he gave up to Tay ... or handed 
over to Tay I should say. I think it was a very difficult 
period, because he had been the Big Chief and his word 
was law and all these wonderful people that he had up there 
cow-towed to him, except Ernest Thompson Seton who 
would cow-tow to nobody and I wouldn’t say that Jack 
Miner would either. Not that Chick, and Alex and Hedley 
would either but they were great admirers of the Chief. 


He certainly was the Big Chief. He was the Chief to many 
of us in camping and we are not only the beneficiaries of all 
that he stood for in camping, but we have been very proud 
of his accomplishments ... yet I am sure not any more so 
than you have been. 

No, I have been amazed though too. I still meet people who 
well remember, or their fathers were closely involved, and it 
is a great joy to meet them and hear people speak highly of 
him. He certainly meant an awful lot to our family. 

And to the camping family. 



A PERSONAL NOTE 

For the past twenty years I have concentrated my thought 
and energy on assisting boys in character development. Very 
early I learned that a boys’ character was most affected during 
his leisure time. This is because of the enthusiasm with which 
he throws himself into the things he wants to do. 

Character is contagious. 11 is caught, not taught. Expose 
a boy during his leisure time to men of sterling character 
and he will quickly acquire similar characteristics. 

A properly supervised summer camp provides the variety of 
experiences which every normal boy enjoys, together with the 
social contacts needed in developing strong manly character 

Camp Ahmek is the culmination of my aim to create a 
character-building centre permeated with an atmosphere which 
would inspire boys to develop the best that is in them. 

At Camp Ahmek we have surrounded the boys with the 
creative force of positive suggestion. We have eliminated 
the word “don’t’’ and have substituted incentives and motives 
for purposeful activity. Through the influence of good music 
of strong personalities, of the happy smile and the inspiring 
story, every boy soon catches “The Ahmek Spirit.” 

By admitting a limited number of boys I am able to 
give my personal attention where it is needed. The 
testimony of parents who have entrusted their shy and 
backward boys to my care is most encouraging. 

The following pages will give some idea of Camp Ahmek, but 
it is only by visiting the camp and breathing its atmosphere and 
feeling its influence that the spirit of Camp Ahmek is revealed. 

TAYLOR STATTEN. 


17 









NOTES TO 
CANADA ON. 


• • 



Our 

Fragile 

World 

l+l 


The information below is your invitation to an historic and invaluable exchange on camping views. This 2nd International 
Camping Congress will address the challenges facing all of us in camping today. The Canadian Camping Association will be making 
major contributions at this Congress and, in turn, stands to benefit greatly from the opportunities it can provide. 

Programs for this Congress have been grouped into six streams: Program; Marketing and Public Relations; Business, Finance, 
Operations; Personnel; Support Services and Whom We serve. 

In each of the streams there will be offered six-hour seminars, three-hour workshops and one-and-one-half hour interest 
sessions. At any given time there will be up to 30 sessions from which to choose. 

The fee for the Congress is $200.00 US for early registration (as compared to the later $260.00 US). This early registration fee can 
be guaranteed with a $50.00 US deposit. Spousal registrations are half price. Special airfares from Toronto have been arranged with 
U.S. AIR. The return ticket is $250.00 Cdn. (as compared to the regular $390.00 Cdn.). As an extra benefit the tickets down are 
valid from March 2-6, 1987 and they are open ended. This allows families to fly down to Washington late in the Congress week for 
a family vacation to follow the event. 

Following the initial registration and deposit a detailed registration form is sent. Please note that the steering committee has set up 
a channelling system for the donation portion of the final payment. Donations made from Canada can return to Canadians. 

Rates at the Shoreham Hotel are approximately $80.00 U.S./night. Accommodation at the nearby 4H Club Conference Centre is 
$20 - $25.00 U.S./night (includes breakfast). 

More details are on their way to you. In the meantime, mark calendars and ear mark funds for this important camping event. 

For further information write: 

Second International Camping Congress 

c/o Canadian Camping Association 

1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, Toronto, Ontario M5M3Z1 


WASHINGTON ^Vr 1 ' 

I 


The Second International Camping Congress will be held on March 2- 5, 1987, at the Shoreham Hotel in Washington, D.C., 
U.S.A. The Congress is jointly sponsored by the American Camping Association, Canadian Camping Association, and Jamaica 
Camping and Hiking Association and the National Camping Association of Japan. Camping leaders throughout the world will be 
present to bring their concerns about elements to our “Fragile World” which challenge the organized camping, environmental and 
experiential education community to impact participants for future action. 

Specifically, the Congress shall seek to share current knowledge and techniques in organized camping and outdoor environmental 
and experiential education; consider global issues such as peace and conservation which can be impacted by the outdoor experience 
movement; explore with a global perspective the future trends of the camping, outdoor environmental and experiential education 
movements and their implication on culture and foster an atmosphere of personal sharing across international and interdisciplinary 
lines. 

Speakers: We’re pleased to announce the Congress will be opened by the internationally acclaimed group “Up With People” who 
have entertained millions of people around the world; Pete Seeger, internationally known for his folk writing and his dedication and 
commitment to the environment; William Penn Mott, the U.S. National Park Service Director who has been described as “one of 
the most widely respected conservationists in America and the World”; and former ambassador to the U.S.A. and U.S.S.R. from 
India, T. N. Kaul whose world interests on behalf of India has given him the acclaim of World Statesman. 

The Congress has the support and cooperation of the following: Alliance for Environmental Education of the U.S.A.; American 
Alliance for Health, Physical Education, Recreation and Dance (AAHPERD); American Nature Study Society; Association for 
Experiential Education; Boy Scouts of America; Boys’ Clubs of America; Camping Association of South Australia; Canadian 
Youth Science Foundation; Christian Camping International, U.S. Division; Cooperative Extension Service: 4-H; Council of 
Outdoor Educators of Ontario, Canada; European YMCA Camping Group; Girl Scouts of the U.S.A.; International Association 
of Conference Center Administrators; Jewish Welfare Board; National Board of YWCA of the U.S.A.; National Park and 
Recreation Association of the U.S.A.; National Society for Internships and Experiential Education of the U.S.A.; World Alliance 
of YMCAs; the World Association of Girl Guides and Girl Scouts; and YMCA of the U.S.A. 






UNDER OPEN SKIES 


A CAMP RECIPE 

by Mary S. Edgar 

A lake-bowl of water, hill-rimmed and blue 
Sprinkle with sunshine, diffused through and through 
Flavouring from miles of evergreen trees 
Stir altogether with clear northern breeze. 

Add a flash of white wings, the dash of a brook 
Or a slow-dropping stream from a fern-hidden nook. 

Allure all the children from all kith and kin. 

And after much sorting, and much merry din 
Place them in cabins where each has a friend. 

Provide them with fun and some leisure to spend. 

Season with crafts, with sailing and trips. 

With riding and tennis, canoeing and dips. 

Toast by a fire, or bake in the sun 
Until every camper is perfectly done. 

Keep them in safety eight weeks, or till brown: 

Then they are ready to serve back in town. 

REPRINTED FROM CANADIAN 
CAMPING MAGAZINE, DEC. 1960. 

Welcome to our regular feature entitled Under Open Skies. The 
beautiful poem above, A CAMP RECIPE, was written by Mary 
S. Edgar, an Honourary President of the Canadian Camping 
Association, and the Founder of Canadian Camping Magazine. 
With a tribute in our hearts to Mary, we begin this regular feature 
of our CCA/ACC Magazine. 

Camp is a wonderful place for spiritual growth — services, 
ceremonies and quiet times conducted in the out-of-doors create 
memories that last forever, and many of us still cherish the 
poems, spiritual songs and sermonettes that we experienced at 
Camp. 

We invite all our readers to contribute their own bits of 
inspiration whether they are poems, thoughts for the day, 
prayers, or sermonettes. Please send your contributions to the 
Canadian Camping Magazine, R.R. #1, Huntsville, Ontario, 
POA 1K0, and we will re-print them in our Under Open Skies 
feature. 

We would invite, firstly, the original and creative works of our 
own members but if your items are reprinted from another source 
then please include that source for reference. 

Bienvenue k notre article rfegulier intitule “Under Open 
Skies”. Le beau poeme au-dessus, “A Camp Recipe”, 6tait 
&crit par Mary S. Edgar, une pr6sidente honoraire de 
PAssociation des Camps du Canada, et la fondatrice du 
Canadian Camping Magazine. Un tribut a Mary, cet article 
regulier de notre Revue CCA/ACC commence. 

Le camp est un endroit merveilleux pour le dfcveloppe- 
ment spirituel — les services, les ceremonies et les 
moments tranquils faits en plein air produisent des 
souvenirs qui dureront toujours, et un grand nombre de 
nous cherissons toujours les podmes, les chansons 
spirituels et les sermonettes que nous avons ressentis au 
Camp. 

Nous invitons tous nos lecteurs k soumettre leurs 
examples d’inspiration solent des po^mes, des reflexions 
de jour, des pridres ou des sermonettes. Envoyez, s’il vous 
plait, vos articles au Canadian Camping Magazine, RR#1, 
Huntsville, Ontario POA 1K0, et nous les reimprimerons 
dans notre article “Under Open Skies”. Nous inviterions, 
d’abord, les oeuvres originates et ergatives de nos propres 
membres, mais si vos articles seront reimprimfes d’une 
source differente, inclusez s’il vous plait cette source pour 
la reference. 


A PRAYER FOR LEADERS 

Lord of all learning and leaders, 

At best we blunder along 
While ours is the honour to forge out ahead, 

A daring and pioneer throng. 

Too easily sure and contented 
With successes of yesterdays, 

While Youth has the untried Tomorrow 
Calling to untrodden ways. 

May all of our short-comings shame us 
Till we learn to be humble and wise, 

Ready as seers and as prophets 
To lift up eager young eyes. 

Tis not our task to furnish and mind 
But to fan a flame in the soul, 

Sending them forth with a will and a dream 
To their high and potential goal. 

Give us, O Lord of all leaders 
A sense of our sacred task, 

The equipment needed to face it 
And a blessing, we humbly ask. 

— Mary S. Edgar 

REPRINTED FROM CANADIAN 
CAMPING MAGAZINE, APRIL 1967. 


IMMIGRATION INFORMATION 

Camps across Canada owe thanks to Barry Lowes, Chairman 
of C.C.A/s Immigration Task Force. Many Canadian camping 
people are aware of the concerns we had regarding medicals for 
foreign camp counsellors. The news was gloomy until Barry and 
his committee of Joe Kronick and Ben Wise met with the 
Honourable Jake Epp, Minister of Health and Welfare Canada. 
That April 22nd meeting resulted in the following amendments: 

The Minister has agreed to amend the procedures as follows: 

1. Foreign camp counsellors will now obtain the Ministry’s 
Medical Form MS 1017 from the nearest Consulate. 

They can telephone or go in person. 

We are also working on a plan to have CCA/ACC provide 
them directly to camps. For now, advise counsellors to ob¬ 
tain it from the nearest Consulate. 

2. The counsellor has the medical form completed by his own 
doctor. 

3. The counsellor brings the completed medical form to the 
border, plus a photocopy for the camp, together with his/ 
her other Immigration papers. The officer at the border will 
take the original medical form and send it to Ottawa. 

4. The counsellor once he has the medical form from the 
Consulate, has no need to go back to or deal further with 
the Consulate. Just fill out the medical form and bring it to 
the border. 

This new protocol simplifies greatly the process of gaining entry 
into Canada. 

Over the past several years, Barry has been working hard on 
our behalf as our liaison with the Federal Government. We salute 
you, Barry Lowes, for the time and effort you have given to 
ensure better camping for everyone. 

If CCA/ ACC camps have any questions, concerns or problems 
regarding foreign camp counsellors, please call Barry at 
416-653-2118, or after June 20 at 705-457-2813. 


19 







HERE IS YOUR CHALLENGE, 
O, COUNSELLOR! 



This article is based on the talk pre¬ 
sented by Mrs. Ebbs at the Ontario Camp¬ 
ing Association Annual Conference, 
March 1965. 


VOICE VOTRE DEFI, CONSEILLER 

Cet article est basd sur un discours 
prdsentd par Mme Ebbs a la con¬ 
ference annuelle de ^association des 
camps de /'Ontario mars 1965. Dans 
cet article elle raconte les souvenirs 
de sa jeunesse et elle identifie le 
campeur comme la raison d’etre du 
conseiller. Les besoins des campeurs 
sont vdritables et le conseiller peut y 
satisfaire seulement avec beaucoup 
d’effort. Les recompenses au con¬ 
seiller sont heureusement vdritables 


A shocker to me, if not to you, is that I 
have been camping for a little over fifty 
years, that’s half a century! During that 
time there have been changes, but there 
are many similarities in camping then and 
now, and in the opportunities and re¬ 
sponsibilities awaiting the new counsellor. 
The more background you can get for this 
job, the more you are going to feel “at 
home” with it. 

Let me reminisce a little, and perhaps 
this will stir memories for you too. I 
remember my first portage (apparently a 
very short one) when I struck out ahead 
of my parents, then 1 went back to them, 
still with my pack on my back, to inform 
them the pack was too heavy —thus, in 
fact, covering the portage twice! Only 
once did 1 have a fear of drowning, this 
while crossing an open bay in a high wind 
when I was middle man in the canoe. The 
only scar I carry is on one finger when I 


by A dele Ebbs, 

Director, Camp Wapomeo for Girls 
Taylor Statten Camps 


carelessly opened a can of sardines and 
part of my finger with it. The latter was 
stuck back on quickly and taped up by my 
smart counsellor. 

I remember: a family of otters sur¬ 
rounding our canoes at dusk once— 
hissing . . ., I remember when we found a 
heronry and one of the girls climbed a 
pine tree and got wonderful pictures of 
those balls of fluff in their huge nest. I 
remember many beaver dams, which were 
a nuisance to lift our canoes and gear 
over, but which were of equal use to 
beavers and trippers, because we had 
water to paddle in. And there was the time 
we met a bear cub on a portage who just 
sat and stared, while we wondered 
uneasily where mama bear was. I 
remember being disturbed one night while 
sleeping in my bag under the stars — a 
persistent rustling just near my head — oh, 
it couldn’t have been anything but a 
mouse. I tried to ignore it, then took my 
flashlight from under my pillow and 
shone it into the eyes of a startled 
skunk —or, which of us do you think was 
the more startled? 

A counsellor is at heart a camper 

If you are lucky enough to be able to get 
away from civilization, these things 
haven’t changed. But our “frontiers’’ are 
coming closer with their accessibility by 
road. You used to be able to bicycle out 
into the country for picnics; now you have 
to drive or go by bus to reach the country. 
But there are good areas being saved by 
our Conservation Authorities. Neverthe¬ 
less with recreational areas being made 
accessible, our country is opened up for 
tourism. This is an ever increasing 
challenge to campers. We have to know 
and practise conservation. As counsellors 
we must cherish and share the thrill and 
excitement of our great out-of-doors, so 
that this won’t be lost to the next 
generation. It is really no task to learn 
more about nature, so long as you 
continue to be curious about the un¬ 
known, alert to its magic, and you 
develop attitudes, interests and habits 
related to the wise use of resources. 

We want to be campers, and to me this 
means a fundamental desire to be in the 
out-of-doors: in the woods, on a high hill, 
by a lake or a creek, or in the sugar- 
bush of a friendly farmer. We don’t mind 
the weather —if it’s hot, we avoid the dis¬ 
comforts of sunburn at the same time 


getting a healthy tan. If it’s wet and cold, 
we wear the proper gear and become more 
active. We know there’ll be black flies the 
end of June and in early July, we know 
we’ll be pursued by mosquitoes and deer 
flies, so we dress for them and fight them! 

Your first season as a counsellor 

You are looking forward to being coun¬ 
sellors this summer. You are on the verge 
of becoming “the older generation’’ in the 
eyes of your campers. But you are all 
young enough to have the strength, the 
imagination, the vision, the courage, to 
give to your camps and campers 
leadership in programming and 
community living which can make this 
summer more exciting and worthwhile 
than any they have ever had. 

You can still remember your excite¬ 
ment at doing things for the first time: 
becoming water-borne with your first 
stroke as you learned to swim, paddling a 
canoe in a straight line, moulding a 
creation from some clay or carving it from 
a piece of wood, finding a bird’s nest and 
then going back regularly to peek and see 
if the eggs had hatched. Discovering 
things for yourself for the first time is so 
thrilling. Today’s “organized” children 
need this release and time for these ex¬ 
plorations. Maybe you too have suffered 
from a highly organized routine. Maybe 
this summer will be the first time when 
you can really do some thinking for your¬ 
self, so don’t crowd your programme or 
that of your campers. 

Do you understand the needs of your 
campers? 

There are some needs so basic that you 
simply must remember them. To make it 
easier, memorize the code-word 
R.E.A.P.S., and the need represented by 
each letter. 

RECOGNITION — In leaving the 
family circle, the camper needs to find his 
place in the camp family—he needs to 
have a part to play in the group, be it an 
activity group or his cabin group — and to 
get approval for acceptable behaviour. 

EXPERIENCE (NEW) — Adventure, 
excitement, time to explore — so let the 
camper have time to go fishing without a 
hook if he wants, time to watch the sun set 
or to catch a snake. 

AFFECTION — and this isn’t just for 
little girls. We are too inclined to treat 


20 








children as “little adults”. Don’t forget 
that little boys need understanding and 
gentleness — they can’t always fight back 
and “be a man”. 

POWER — campers want to achieve, 
but let it be at their level. Having put forth 
effort, they should then have some 
feelings of success and mastery. 

SECURITY —realize what a sudden 
change it is for your campers from home 
to camp: new faces, and so many more 
people than at home, no city con¬ 
veniences, sharing one’s “bedroom” with 
several others, strange night noises, 
different food, and so on. 

All these children are at different stages 
of development especially with relation to 
camp activities. Find out the level of 
ability of each one as soon as you can, and 
then help to make goals for each indi¬ 
vidual. 

The job of a counsellor is real work 

Some people make work out of play 
and some play out of work. We belong to 
the second category. We strive to create a 
holiday atmosphere, at the same time 
realizing the seriousness of our task. 
Counselling at camp this summer may be 
your first job. How lucky you are to work 
in a permissive and sympathetic atmos¬ 
phere. Your camp director knows that 
you are serious in your desire to work, 
but also realizes that there must be some¬ 
thing more in it for you. Your education is 
continuing. This will be a growing-up 
experience because you will have to put 
your job first and your personal problems 
second. It will be harder to work with 
some than others, but you can’t always 
choose your cabin-mate or trip-mate, and 
so you will learn to get along with all kinds 
of people. 

There is dignity in having a job at a 
summer camp. More money can be made 
(and spent) waitressing at a lodge or doing 
highway construction. But counselling has 
an important social meaning — you get the 
feeling that you are needed by others, that 
you are playing an important role in the 
lives of others. You are not just a leader, 
you are a counsellor , and in this you have 
an advantage over the camper’s parents in 
your opportunity to help him develop. 

Even in the South Seas where we say 
that no one has to work, this is really a 
fantasy because a woman there judges the 
worth of a man by, for instance, his skill 
as a fisherman. 

You will be chosen for staff because of 
your individual attributes. Set your 
standards and goals and stick by them. 
Your contribution will be the greater if it 
is different from others on the staff. We 
are growing fortunate in Canada these 
days because we have young people not 
only from pioneer Canadian stock but 
also from other countries. If your cultural 
background is different, you can make a 


fine contribution by enriching various 
programmes with stories, songs, dances 
and costumes. You have an important job 
which is going to influence every child 
with whom you come in contact. It is 
wonderful to read about the influence 
young people are having abroad through 
C.U.S.O. and the Peace Corps. This is for 
a very few, and no more important than 
the tremendous job to be done in our 
camps this summer. 

It takes many qualities and skills to 
make a good counsellor. It would be an 
asset to be a Master of Social Work or a 
trained psychologist, and perhaps as a 
result of your camping experience with 
children and people in general, you might 
enter one of these fields in your higher 
education. In the meantime you are not a 
“pro”, so when you run into difficult 
situations, treat the individual as a human 



This story has been reprinted from the 
personal notes of Taylor Statten. One of 
his cherished responsibilities was a daily 
story-for-thought in the form of a 
Meditation. The boys at Camp Ahmek in 
Algonquin Park would gather round him 
quietly and listen as he began .... 

One evening at the early turn of the 
century I was in the locker room 
preparing to go on the gym floor when the 
fellow who had the locker next to mine 
came in. I was glad to see him. He was a 
member of our famous relay team and I 
wanted to hear about the big race in 
Buffalo held on the previous Saturday 
night. The sporting page of the Monday 
morning paper had featured it but now I 
could get it first hand. 

George said “You know I was more 
than anxious that we should win the race. 
I not only wanted to help bring the piece 


being, show him you really care, and listen 
to his problems. So much can be accom¬ 
plished by talking things out to a sympa¬ 
thetic listener. You too will find oppor¬ 
tunities to talk with your colleagues and 
supervisors, and do some personal 
planning for the future. If you can be 
receptive to others — reach out — share — 
give of yourself—this is what will make 
for a successful summer. And when you 
sit down to evaluate it, you will find that 
mutual sympathy and generosity of spirit 
make up the secret of true happiness. 

The counsellor’s job is a demanding 
one. It can’t be taken lightly, but the 
rewards are there. You’ll see them in the 
smiling face of a camper, the comrade¬ 
ship of your fellow staff, and the warm 
handshake of your camp director which 
will mean “Thanks. Well done!” 


of silverware back to Canada, but when 
they told me that I had been chosen to run 
the last relay, I was determined that we 
should win. I wondered who would run 
the last relay for the United States and 
when I read in the paper that it was to be 
the mighty Bonhog, I got cold shivers up 
and down my spine because I knew that 
Bonhog could run those 2 laps in that 
Buffalo Armories a trifle over a second 
faster than I, provided he was feeling fit. 

The first thing I did when we reached 
the dressing room in Buffalo was to look 
up Bonhog and then he said ‘I never felt 
better. I think that tonight I am going to 
beat my previous times.’ 

“I then knew that I could finish ahead 
of Bonhog only if the third relay runner 
gave me at least a second head start.” I sat 
there fascinated while George told me 
about the races. He said “The gong 
sounded in the dressing room and both 
teams went up to the track. The Canadian 
team entered the arena first and were 
given a good round of applause, but when 
the United States team came on the floor 
the greeting was tumultous. 

“They all moved over to the starting 
post to receive instructions and soon the 
first pair of runners took their positions 
on the track. The Canadian was given a 
silk Lion Ensign and the United States 
runner a silk Stars and Stripes. They were 
to run two laps and pass their flags on to 
the second pair of relay runners. 

“The Starter called on your mark — 
get set, and cracked his pistol and they 
were off. They ran neck and neck around 
the bend and kept together down the back 
stretch but as they rounded the far end 
our Canadian began to force his way 
ahead and a cheer went up from the group 
of Toronto and Hamilton fans who had 
gone over to Buffalo on the special train. 


RELAY RACE 


Cont’d on next page ... 

21 






I kept yelling ‘Go it old man, go it. A little 
more steam. That’s what I need to win 
this race’. 

“Down the stretch they came, the 
United States runner still trailing by a 
narrow margin, but our Canadian was 
little more than holding his lead. ‘I’ll 
need more than that to beat Bonhog.’ As 
they went down the back stretch the 
United States runner put on a sprint. This 
brought that Buffalo crowd to their feet in 
a cheering frenzy, but it did not last long 
and as the runners came down the stretch 
our second runner for Canada got his flag 
a split second before the United States 
runner grasped his and away they tore. As 
they rounded the bend the United States 
runner seemed to be closing in. From the 
cheering it was evident that he was gaining 
on our Canadian but as they neared the 
end of the back stretch the noise gradually 
subsided. The gap between the two 
runners slowly widened as they passed 
down the home stretch for the first lap I 
was tense with excitement. I was yelling 
‘Atta boy, atta boy, keep going that’s 
what I need. Just a little more, a little 
more and we have it in the bag.* 

“Around the bend, into the back 
stretch with our Canadian steadily 
increasing the lead and our Canadian 
contingent shouting their heads off. I 
could see that we now had the second I 
needed, but could we hold it. 

“Out stepped the third pair of runners 
and as our big Canadian took his place 
again I got the cold shivers. This was the 
young runner who less than a week ago, 
here in this dressing room told me he was 
a natural runner who didn’t need much 
training and that he was going up to the 
drug store to have an ice cream soda. His 
parting shot was, ‘I can beat the legs off 
you without training’. Now he was to 
have his first big race in senior company. 

There he crouched, in perfect form, 
alert, with outstretched arm, he grasped 
the Canadian flag and off he went, 
running like a deer. The United States 
runner got his flag and was away after 
him. Could our big Canadian hold that 
lead. Could he hold it? He was 
lengthening it. Down the back stretch they 
went. Our Canadians shouting them¬ 
selves hoarse, ‘nice going, nice going’. 
‘We now have more than I need, 
Bonhog can never catch me with a lead 
like that’. Our Canadian flashed past the 
starting line on the first lap of the home 
stretch quickly followed by the United 
States runner and as I stepped out to get 
into position to receive the flag on the 
next lap, suddenly I was aware of a change 
in the cheering. The shouting from our 
Canadians was weakening, that from the 
Buffalo crowd increasing and as I 
straightened up and gazed across to the 
other side of the track I could see that our 
big Canadian’s pace was slackening. The 


United States runner was digging in. Our 
big fellow was beginning to wobble. The 
United States runner was closing the gap. 
The cheering was louder and louder. Our 
runners feet seemed to be getting mixed 
up, now Buffalo was raising the roof. The 
Canadian made a desperate effort as the 
other man came abreast of him and then 
amidst a mighty outburst from that vast 
crowd the little United States runner 
passed our big Canadian. When it came to 
my turn to run the last relay, Bonhog had 
the Stars and Stripes and was away before 
me. Although I ran in the best time I ever 
made on that Buffalo track, what was the 
use.” 

The Race had been lost in the 3rd relay. 
George was highly wrought up over that 
race and I couldn’t get it out of my mind. 
After I got into bed that night I kept 
thinking about it. Suddenly I recalled an 
address I had heard recently in which the 
speaker said that our leaders undergo a 
complete change every 7 years. 

I know that I must have a new set of 
finger nails in less than seven years. They 
keep growing and I keep filing them 
down. I don’t know how long it takes to 
have a new set. 

My hair keeps growing. The barber 
keeps cutting it. I don’t know how long it 
takes to get a new head of hair. 

After a sun bath and a hot shower, a 
vigorous rub will remove a very thin layer 
of outer skin. I don’t know how long it 
takes to get a new hide. 

They say that within 7 years every bone, 
muscle, brain cell, in fact, every part of 
our body is completely changed. If that is 
true isn’t life like a long relay race. 

At birth we are given a name to carry 
instead of a flag and at the end of each 7 
year period we pass that name on to the 
next relay runner. I then said to myself, 
“Is there any relay that seems more 
important than the others. Back in these 
early days of my work with boys we did 
not know much about the importance of 
the early childhood year. We did, 
however, have statistics to prove that the 
period between 14 and 21, the third relay 
period was the time when most of the 
great life decisions were made. We could 
produce charts showing that the high 
point in the curve of religious conversions 
was between 14 and 16 years of age. That 
the great majority of vocational decisions 
as well as matrimonial choices were made 
in the late teens. I then said to myself if I 
can get a group of teen age boys to be still 
and do some serious thinking I shall try 
to help them picture for themselves that 
fellow who is going to run their next relay. 

Can you see him waiting there on your 
21st birthday eager to carry that name you 
are about to pass on? How he would 
appreciate a little head start! 

What are you going to give him? 


Will his be that sad lament of my friend 
George. “Oh you 3rd relay runner why 
didn’t you train? Why did you waste so 
much precious time? What chance have I 
in this race of life. How can I win with 
such a discouraging handicap?” 

No that is not what he will say. Not if 
you are one of the thousands of Canadian 
teen age boys who have heard this story of 
the Relay Race and have decided to go 
into serious training, who are keeping 
before them a mental picture of that 
fourth relay runner. Can’t you see him 
waiting there at 21, bright and alert, full 
of confidence, ready to say, as you hand 
your name on. “Thanks a lot. I appreciate 
what you have done for me. You with¬ 
stood many a strong temptation and have 
brought me a set of wholesome habits. I 
know it has not been easy going. You 
have stood the test against terrific 
pressure. That senior matric was a tough 
grind. The chances are I shall never have 
to face a more severe test. Now I am away 
to a good start and I shall do my best to 
pass this name on to the next relay runner 
with at least as good a head start as you 
have given me.” 

Taylor Statten 


Cette histoire a 6t6 reimprim6e des 
notes personnels de Taylor Statten. 
Une de ses responsabilites cheries 
etait une histoire quotidienne sous 
forme d’une meditation. Les gargons 
au Camp Ahmek en “Algonquin Park” 
se groupaient silencieusement 
autour de lui et I’&coutaient pendant 
qu’il commengait & raconter une 
histoire comme celle-ci. Ici, il 
compare la frustration du quatrteme 
coureur d’une course de relais qui n’a 
point d’avantage suivant son 
troisidme k la frustration d’un jeune 
homme qui a un peu plus de vingt ans. 
Cet homme doit se charger des defis 
de la vie aprfes avoir perdu sa 
jeunesse. 


Cross Canada 
Water Relay 

Continued from page 9 

We will end the AGM in Vancouver, 
October 4, 1986. Regardless — we will 
have a water bottle that contains water 
from every part of Canada. We will have a 
list of participating paddlers which will be 
mounted in the new Kanawa Inter¬ 
national Museum, and we will have a 
collection of canoe memories for the 
National Offices. Each paddler will 
receive an inscribed kerchief. 

Betty Donaldson 
Co-ordinator and Director 


22 




There are four general principles of 
learning that are easily approached 
through Trials Walking. These principles 
apply to most human activity, but like all 
general principles their meaning becomes 
clearer as we see and experience their 
operation in specific situations. These 
principles are: 

Practice is necessary to develop and 
maintain skills. The movements and 
judgements involved in Trials Walking 
can be demanding and varied. The only 
way to get “good” at is is to practice. A 
little bit of initial practice will usually 
result in obvious improvements in 
routine moves. More difficult moves 
require considerable exploration and 
practice. A good course will involve a 
large variety of very different kinds of 
movement, problems, helping to 
establish a need to “get in shape” by 
practicing a variety of skills. 

Studying and planning help to solve 
new problems. Each section is a new 
and unique problem to be solved. Noth¬ 
ing exactly like it would probably have 
been encountered before, so it is useful 
to study it carefully (reconnaissance), 
and plan some moves in advance. (This 
is permitted, even encouraged, in 
Trials Walking. Participants may take 
as much time as they wish to look over 
a section by walking along outside the 
markers). 

We learn much about possible diffi¬ 
culties and solutions by watching 
others. People watching is one of the 
two most basic and pervasive methods 
of human learning. In Trials Walking 
there is no set order to walk the 
sections, people go when they are 
ready. If there are any doubts about 
how to handle a section it is very useful 
to watch others. 

We learn about our abilities and how to 
change them by accepting and thinking 
about our failures and successes. 
Analysis of our experience is the other 
basic and pervasive method of human 
learning. Anger and frustration are 
barriers to analysis, and unless people 
can accept their mistakes they will not 
learn from them. Likewise, excessive 
pride of accomplishment can blind us to 
the reasons for our success and set us up 
for a series of failures. A good Trials 
Walking course provides experience of 
success and failures for everybody. 

These four principles of learning apply 
to just about everything we do, but of 
course we will not know about them 
unless we are reflecting or looking for 
patterns in our experience, and we will not 
be able to use them to help us to better 
control our own learning unless we 
practice using them. 

Reflective Recreation involves an 
awareness beyond the immediate activity. 
It requires a larger perspective on 


learning, powers and self. These larger 
perspectives can be encouraged through 
timely discussion of the principles 
outlined here, showing how their 
application influences Trials Walking 
performance by pointing out specific 
examples. These same principles can then 
be discussed in any other learning 
situation, whether it be learning to spell, 
fly airplanes, or carry on a relationship 
(for example, much of our reading and 
conversation is a form of “watching 
others” where we learn how they handle 
various problems and opportunities). 

These four are not the only principles 
that could be identified, nor are they 
expressed in any final and authoritative 
way. In doing Reflective Recreation 
people should feel free to analyze, dig, or 
construct in whatever way is most useful 
to developing their own understanding, 
but they should have some examples of 
possible ways to do it. For this reason 


Send us pictures of: 

Sites and Facilities 
Conference Workshops 
Mood and Nature 
Activities and Program 
Staff and Campers 


teachers or parents interested in en¬ 
couraging Reflective Recreation should 
get involved themselves and provide a 
commentary on the problems and 
advances in their own learning. 

Casual Practice and Exercise 
Trials Walking does not have to be 
done in a formal course, or even on 
marked out sections. It can be simply a 
form of challenge walking where difficult 
routes are taken instead of the easiest. 
Jogging and strolling can become more 
interesting and varied if they are 
punctuated with occasional deviations to 
go over or through an obstacle using the 
feet-only rule. 

Try it, have fun, and think about it! 

Reprinted with permission. 

For more information contact: 

Action Studies Institute 
2415 Kelwood Drive S.W. 
Calgary, Alberta T3E 3Z8 


We are ready to use black and white prints and good contrast 
color prints, slides or negatives. 


j_ 

PICTURE 

THIS! 

We Are Looking 

To You To Look 

For A Look At 
Camping In The 

1980’s! 


Please think about us this summer and as you take your 
annual photographs around camp try to plan for the Canadian 
Camping Magazine. 



23 




— A COUNSELLOR’S CHECKLIST by Sylvia Haynes 


-SUMMER 1986! 

When asked to do an article on leadership I thought, 
“Everything has really been said and everything that has 
been said has been said so well, it’s hard to know what to 
say”. 

But — here are some thoughts to ask of yourself and to think 
about as you begin to prepare for the important summer ahead. 
Take a moment to consider each item in turn. 

How did I get into this “leadership thing?” What do I have to 
give? Do I realize that each one of us has something to share 
... Can I look into my real self and find something very special 

— that ONLY I can give? 

Have I, as a leader, read the policy and contract, whether I’m 
hired or I’m working as a volunteer? Can I buy into that 
contract? 

How do I handle confrontations? Do I, as a leader, think 
before I act. Do I wonder why the camper is behaving that 
way? Does she come from a family conflict, is there a court 
case pending — back at home? Perhaps the camper has a low 
self esteem, perhaps he just can’t cope anymore. Can I stop 
before I act... and then do whatever is necessary in a caring, 
loving and thoughtful way. 

Can I really work with any age group or am I just saying that 
because I want to be a leader. Few of us can cope with just any 
age group for a long period of time. We all have a special age 
group with which we feel comfortable — do I know what mine 
is? 

Have I as a leader, taken advantage of the many opportunities 
there are to learn more ... from Parks and Recreation, special 
leadership courses, groups who put on seminars. For instance 

— would I as a leader know how to cope with a death — either 
at the camp — or in the life of one of my campers, (i.e. his 
relative or a friend?) Do I really know enough about the out¬ 
doors? games? skills? first aid? supervision? evaluation? 
communication? 

As a leader what kind of model am I? How can I demand that 
“my campers” be responsible, concerned, caring and loving 
if I am not that model? 

Do I as a leader remember the importance of others? How 
unique we all are! 

As a leader can I use the opportunity to learn from my 
campers? Can I share their wonder, life and God’s gifts? 

Can I stand to make mistakes and find out I’m not perfect. .. 
am I afraid this will shatter my image as a leader? 

As a leader — can I work in harmony with others — and if I 
can’t, do I have the self confidence — that I can either talk 
with the person, or confide in my section head or director — 
about the problem? 

As a leader do I take time to listen to others? As a leader can I 
take criticism? Can I act fairly? 

Do I as a leader know and accept how to be loved and how to 
love — (I’m very concerned these days about our anxiety 
about child abuse, that we as leaders don’t risk the hugs and 
touches). Am I willing to risk? Am I willing to share my 
feelings? 

As a leader have I helped my camper “into” camp as well as 
preparing them for going “out” of camp? 

As a leader how do I cope with emergencies? Have I read all 
the rules and procedures? Do I know how to do them? 

As a leader have I prepared activities, such as games, singsongs, 
for the age group I will be with? Have I tried them out? Will 
these “work” with campers who are slower, who have a dis¬ 
ability — (we all have some!!). Do I know how to adapt to 
the situation? 

Before I respond to a situation do I carefully analyse and 
assess it? Is it necessary to make an immediate decision? 


Can I define the problem? 

Who is involved? 

Having identified the problem, what are the feelings of those 
involved? 

Are there any policies to guide the decision? 

What has worked in the past? 

What is the maturity of the group? 

Are they ready and willing to resolve the problem? 

Should I defer the decision to someone else? 

And after the decision has been made: 

Is the problem resolved? 

Was it the best decision in light of the solution? 

How could the situation have been prevented? 

As a leader am I flexible? Have I got myself so well organized 
that I won’t be upset by change, or new ideas? 

As a leader do I sometimes forget “THAT GROWING UP 
CAN BE TOUGH”. 

As a leader, what is my motivation for an activity? Is it possible 
that my motivation fails to consider my campers — the real 
reason for participating in the activity? 

As a leader do I care for my campers — so that in turn they 
will wish to care for each other? 

As a leader do I take my campers suggestions seriously? 

As a leader, do I ask my campers “what do you think?” and 
then listen and act on their comments? 

As a leader, do I teach my campers “to fly” and then “set 
them free?” 

As a leader, do I follow the counsel of St. Francis? “Grant 
that I may not so much seek to be understood as to under¬ 
stand?” 

Have I read several if not all of these books? 

(1984) “Camp Counsellors Handbook”, B. Blackstock/ 

J. Latimer 

(1982) “Living, Loving and Learning”, LeoBuscaglia 
(1982) “Lead on... Counsellor”, Jack Pearse, Pat Pearse, 
John Jorgenson, Jane McCutcheon 
(1985) “Friendship”, DonPosterski 
(1984) “Learning Disabilities — Camp Director’s Guide on 
Integration”, prepared by Doreen Kronick 
(1983) “But Won’t Granny Need Her Socks?”, Knowles- 
Reeves, Kendall/Hunt Press 
(Helping Children with Death) 

(1983) “No More Secrets For Me”, Oralee Wachter 

(handling the sensitive matter of sexual abuse) 

Everything has really been said before but that doesn’t count 
for a thing unless it’s been heard, understood and become part of 
you and your summer as a leader. 

“I have to say it to myself or I lose it 
I have to remember why I’m doing things or I forget 

I have to remind me what’s important or it slips away”. 

Une Check-list du Conseiller 

Quand on m'a demande d’ecrire un article au sujet des qualit&s 
de chef, j'ai pens£, “Tout est vraiment dit et tout ce qu’on a dit a 
6t& si bien dit qu’il est difficile de savoir ce qu’il faut dire.’ 1 
Cependant-voile des questions pour se demander et pour y 
r6fl6chir comme vous commencez les preparations pour I’6t6 
important qui vient. 

II est vrai que tout est d£j& dit mais cela ne compte pas & moins 
que tout ne soit entendu, compris et que tout ne soit devenu 
partie de vos pens6es et de votre 6t6 comme chef. 

“II faut que je me le dise ou je le perderai 
II faut que je reconnaisse la raison de le faire ou je I’oublierai 
II faut que je me rappelle ce qui est important ou cela 
m’6chappera.” 

Cindy Herbert/Susan Russell 


24 



Canadian Camping Magazine — Prize for Writing 
Established to Honour 

MRS. ANNE NASHMAN OF CAMP WAHANOWIN 


Camp Wahanowin and the family of Mrs. Anne Nashman are 
pleased to establish an annual writing prize to honour her 85th 
birthday and 34th year in camping. The format is to be a story or 
article on a camping subject written by a staff member of a 
Canadian camp. 

The sum of the prize is $100.00. An appropriate plaque or 
trophy will accompany the cash prize. 

About Mrs. Anne Nashman 

The camp mother at Camp Wahanowin since its inception in 
1955 Anne Nashman has just celebrated her 85th birthday and is 
looking forward to her 32nd camp season on Lake Couchiching. 

Best known by campers and staff as Bubby Nash, she was born 
in Glace Bay, Nova Scotia in 1901, the daughter of an immigrant 
family who had just arrived in Canada from Romania. Her father 
worked in the coal mines of Glace Bay for two years before the 
family moved to Hamilton, Ontario where Anne grew up, moving 
to Toronto after her marriage in 1919. 

Anne Nashman has always been known as an outstanding cook 
whose skills were recognized publicly at the Summer Hotel she 
opened in Crystal Beach, Ontario in the 1940’s. She also ran a 


catering service in Toronto for several years. This background of 
tourist operator and caterer combined with her son Harold’s 
camp experience to form the team that developed Camp 
Wahanowin. The camp has enjoyed an excellent reputation and a 
loyal clientele over the years, but the most cherished memory of 
campers, staff and parents is the outstanding camp cuisine 
created by Wahanowin’s own Bubby Nash. To this day parents 
call the Wahanowin office for recipes of items their children insist 
taste better at camp! 

Anne’s expertise has been passed to Wahanowin’s chef of 23 
years who developed many of his culinary skills under Bubby 
Nash’s direction. She still combs and braids hair for campers who 
line up on Visitors Day morning at Bubby Nash’s Beauty Salon 
and continues to be a grandmother figure for campers and staff to 
see and relate to. 

In establishing this prize for outstanding writing on a camp 
theme in her name, we honour Anne Nashman’s contribution to 
Wahanowin and to the Camping Community with the hope that 
she will enjoy many more years of camping on Lake Couchiching. 

Watch for more information in the fall issue of Canadian 
Camping Magazine . 


Canadian Camping Magazine — Le prix pour I’ecriture 
Etabli pour faire honneur a 
Mme Anne Nashman du Camp Wahanowin 


II fait grand plaisir au Camp Wahanowin et k la famille de 
Mme Anne Nashman d’etablir un prix annuel d’6criture 
pour honnorer son quatre-vingt-cinqui&me anniversaire 
et son trente-quatri6me annee de plein air. Le format sera 
une histoire ou un article au sujet du plein air 6crit par un 
employ^ d’un camp canadien. 

La somme du prix est $100. Une plaque ou un trophee 
bien choisi accompagnera le prix en especes. 

Concernant Mme Anne Nashman 

La “m6re du camp” au Camp Wahanowin depuis son 
commencement en 1955, Anne Nashman vient de feterson 
quatre-vingt-cinqui6me anniversaire et elle attend avec 
impatience sa trente-deuxieme saison de camping au Lac 
Couchiching. 

Mieux connue par les campeurs et le personnel sous le 
nom de Bubby Nash, elle est nee k Glace Bay, Nouvelle 
Ecosse en 1901. Elle est la fille d’une famille imigree qui 
venait d’arriver au Canada de la Roumanie. Son p6re 
travailla dans les mines de charbon de Glace Bay pendant 
deux ans avant que la famille puisse d&m&nager k 
Hamilton, Ontario oil Anne a grandi. Elle d&m6nagea a 
Toronto apr6s son mariage en 1919. 

On a toujours connu Anne Nashman comme cuisiniere 
exceptionnelle, ses competences 6taient reconnues 
publiquement au “Summer Hotel” lequel elle a fonde k 
Crystal Beach, Ontario pendant les annees quarante. Elle a 
aussi dirigb un service de restauration k Toronto pendant 


plusieurs annees. Ces connaissances d’organisatrice 
touristique et de fournisseur combinees avec I’exp&rience 
du plein air de son fils Harold permit le d6veloppement du 
Camp Wahanowin. Au cours des annees le camp a tenu 
une reputation excellente et une clientele loyale, mais le 
souvenir le plus ch6ri des campeurs, du personnel et des 
parents est la cuisine remarquable cree par Bubby Nash. 
Jusqu’4 ce jour, plusieurs parents ont telephone au bureau 
de Wahanowin pour les recettes des differents pldts que, 
selon leurs enfants, goutent meilleurs au Camp. 

La competence d’Anne a 6t6 passee au chef de vingt- 
trois ans de Wahanowin qui a developpe beaucoup de son 
savoir faire sous la direction de Bubby Nash. Elle peigne et 
tresse toujours les cheveux des campeurs qui se mettent 
en rang au salon de beaute de Bubby Nash quand leurs 
parents vont les visiter au camp et elle continue k 
repr6senter une grand-m6re que les campeurs et le 
personnel peuvent visiter et aupr6s de quelle ils peuvent se 
reconforter. 

En 6tablissant le prix pour l’6criture exceptionnelle au 
sujet du plein air, nous faisons honneur a la contribution 
d’Anne Nashman k Wahanowin, et au monde du plein air 
dans I’espoir qu’elle trouvera plaisir aux nombreuses 
ann&es k venir active dans le plein air au Lac Couchiching. 


II y a aura plus d’informations dans i’kdition d’automne 
du Canadian Camping Magazine. 


25 



TRIALS WALKING 


Trials Walking is a challenge activity 
that can be made as easy or as difficult as 
one wishes. It can be used as a form of 
casual personal exercise or as a formal 
competition. Very little equipment is 
needed, it can be done almost anywhere, 
both mind and body exercised, and most 
of all it’s fun! 

History 

Trials Walking was developed by the 
Action Studies Team of the Calgary 
Board of Education. The Action Studies 
Team is concerned with personal com¬ 
petence, or how people learn to control 
and take responsibility for their own 
actions. The work of this group involves a 
close examination of personal powers and 
how they are explored, developed, and 
maintained. A wide variety of activities 
and experiences is essential to gain a 
useful understanding of one’s own 
powers, and the Action Studies Group 
analyses existing activities and develops 
new ones for their learning potential. 

One of the many activities examined 
was motorcycle competition known as 
Observed Trials. Observed Trials was 
invented by the Scots, the same folk who 
thought up golf, and there are some 
general similarities between the activities. 
Both involve a series of transport 
problems that are to be solved with the 
greatest economy of movements. There is 
one basic rule in each case; in golf the ball 
is to be moved along only by hitting it 
with a club; in Observed Trials the rider is 
allowed to move along only by riding a 
motorcycle. It would be much easier to 
carry the golf ball and drop it in each 
hole, or climb, slog, or crawl through an 
Observed Trials course without having to 
bring along a motorcycle. But then there 
would be little challenge, and people 
exercise and develop their powers only to 
the extent that there is some difficulty to 
be overcome. So, we go through life 
making things difficult for ourselves and 
then try to make it look as easy as 
possible. 

Observed Trials involves riding through 
a series of “sections” or short lengths of 
very difficult terrain with a minimum of 
touching the ground with one’s feet, 
without falling over, and without going 
out of bounds. The obstacles, within 
sections may be small cliffs, deep 
mudholes, loose slopes, big logs, or any¬ 
thing but simply riding through the 
section. “Dabbing” at the ground with a 
foot for support is assessed one point, but 
it might be better to put a foot down and 
take one point than risk falling down or 
going out of bounds and taking five 
points. The object is to “clean” the 
section or ride through it cleanly without 
penalty points. A Trials course may be 


made up of 15-30 sections spread out 
over many miles. Each section has its own 
marshal who observes each rider and 
records the points — hence the name 
Observed Trials. Riders have a set time 
period to complete the course, 4-8 
hours, depending on its length but it is not 
a race and individual riders can budget 
their time between studying the sections, 
riding, and getting from section to 
section. 

Observed Trials has been described as a 
combination of motorcycle riding, figure 
skating, and gynmastics. It requires 
a tremendous amount of practice to be 
good at it. However, an investigation of 
things one might learn from Observed 
Trials showed it to be one of the most 
promising and powerful activities yet 
encountered. It seemed perfect as one of 
the “Reflective Recreation” activities 
being promoted by Action Studies. There 
was one major hitch though — the 
motorcycle. 

Motorcycles are expensive, they take a 
great deal of time to learn to do well and 
there are not many easily accessible places 
suitable for Trials Riding. So, it was 
reasoned, let’s do it without the 
motorcycle. This is not an unusual trans¬ 
formation. Rallying in sports cars or 
enduro riding with motorcycles involves 
navigating from point to point within 
given time restrictions. Orienteering is 
basically a foot version of the same thing. 
Why not have a foot version of Observed 
Trials — Trials Walking! 

Trials Walking 

Trials Walking involves moving over 
obstacles or difficult ground without 
taking weight on any part of the body but 
the feet. Penalty points are assessed for 
using hands, resting or falling on a knee, 
elbow, or any other part of the body but 
the feet, or for going out of bounds. 

Trials Walking sections can be set up 
over any ground that would be difficult to 
walk on without losing one’s balance, or 
any terrain that might cause one to want 
to hold on, slide along, crawl, or roll to 
get over. Section boundaries are marked 
like downhill ski slalom courses or 
shipping channels with marker buoys. A 
colour code is used, in this case red on the 
right, blue on the left. Setting up a good 
Trials Walking section requires imagi¬ 
nation. A healthy sense of humour is also 
helpful. 

Marking a section is done with pins, 
poles, or ribbons — depending on what 
sort of boundary is needed. The purpose 
of marking is to direct movement within 
certain boundaries so that people must 
negotiate the obstacle and not just go 
around it. Since the only requirement is to 


pass with the red markers on one’s right 
and the blue on one’s left, the route in 
between can be quite varied. 

Having many possible routes is part of 
the challenge. Sometimes however, the 
open spaces between markers make for 
alternate routes that are too obvious and 
easy, so sometimes line markers are used. 

Sometimes there is a need to restrict or 
carefully judge body position in relation 
to a marker, and ground markers won’t 
do. In this case marker poles are used. 

Trials Walking courses can be set up 
over either natural or manufactured 
obstacles. Courses can be set up inside 
using saw-horses, furniture, garbage 
cans, or gymnasium equipment—any¬ 
thing that will be a challenge to walk over, 
under, or through. 

Courses may include as many sections 
as seem appropriate, and each section can 
be as close or as far from the others as 
time and stamina permit. Sections should 
be long enough to contain several 
different problems, but not so long that 
they are difficult to study or observe. 

People age four and up get the idea 
quickly and courses can be designed with 
different physical capabilities in mind. A 
good course will involve a wide variety of 
movement and planning problems. 
Anyone, including fairly young children 
can design challenging sections after they 
have walked a few—and one’s under¬ 
standing of the activity and its possibilities 
is greatly increased through designing 
sections. 

Equipment 

Red and blue survey flagging or ribbon 
is cheap, readily available, and is a 
durable and effective marking material. 
Long spikes wrapped with a short length 
of ribbon, giving two loose ends, make 
effective ground level markers. Spikes can 
also be used to pin ribbons in place as a 
line marker. Care should be taken to drive 
spikes in far enough or position them so 
that they are not a hazard should someone 
take an uncontrolled fall. 

Masking tape can be used to hold down 
ribbon when courses are set up inside, or 
over obstacles like old car bodies. 

Marker poles can be made out of 
anything safe — which means soft and 
flexible. Willow wands or other flexible 
sticks can be used, but should be 
selectively and carefully taken so as not to 
have too much impact on the environ¬ 
ment. If poles are used frequently, it is 
perhaps best to invest in a set of 
polyethylene downhill ski slalom poles, 
which are already colour coded in red and 
blue. Polyethylene slalom poles come in 
eight foot lengths and can be cut in half 


26 








for most Trials Walking purposes (an 
occasional eight footer will be required in 
advanced courses). Polyethylene poles 
can be set in soft ground or snow using a 
steel bar to punch holes. In rock, ice, or 
hard ground, metal pegs with sockets will 
be necessary. These can be made up in a 
friendly local metal shop out of scrap 
metal strap and tubing. 

For your planning, sections of average 
length seem to require a total of 30 - 40 
markers. More or less may be used 
depending on the situation. Very 
challenging sections can be marked out 
using one or two short lines and only a 
few poles or pins. 

In addition to the boundary markers, it 
is useful to have a START and FINISH 
sign for the beginning and ending of each 
section. The start sign also would carry 
the section number. Markers for start and 
finish are usually arranged so that they 
form clearcut gates. 

Other equipment will depend on needs. 
Score cards and punches will be required 
for formal competition. If there are many 
sections, and they are widely separated, 
maps will be needed. 

In designing sections and laying out 
courses, care should be taken to keep risks 
of uncontrolled falls to an appropriate 
level for the age and skill of the partici¬ 
pants. 

Scoring 

Scoring is essential in competition 
Trials Walking and useful in informal 
personal exercise to keep track of 
progress. Basically the scoring is designed 
to penalize but not prevent the use of 
handholds, crawling, sliding, or resting 
against an obstacle. The system of scoring 
gives a person a choice about whether to 
take a safe single point or risk taking three 
or more points by trying to “clean” the 
section with no penalty points. 



“A one point move 


Penalty Points Assessment 

1. Point is assessed for each instance of 

the following: 

— taking a handhold with one hand 

— resting or taking weight, without 
sliding, on any single body part ex¬ 
cept the feet; such as one hand, 
knee, shoulder, arm, or hip (taking 
weight or resting on one’s trunk — 
the bottom, back, chest, or 
stomach —is assessed three points). 

2. Points are assessed for each instance 

of the following: 

— taking handholds with both hands 

— resting or taking weight on two 
body points, except the feet 

3. Points are assessed for the following: 

— taking weight or resting on one’s 
bottom, back, chest or stomach 

— taking weight by sliding on any part 
of the body but the feet or trunk (in 
case of the feet there are no penalty 
points, sliding or rolling on any part 
of the trunk is five points). 

4. Points are assessed for the following: 

— sliding or rolling contact with the 
trunk (back, chest, stomach or 
bottom) 

— touching a marker (pole, line, or 
pin) with enough pressure to cause 
it to move 

— missing a marker or passing it on 
the wrong side. 

The maximum amount of penalty 
points possible for any section is 5, so for 
instance two 3 point penalties in the same 
section would only count as 5. 

Formal Trials Walking competitions 
may also have a time limit for the whole 
course (which may be 20 sections or 
more), with penalty points assessed for 
exceeding the time limit. A single 


competition may involve two or more 
circuits of the course. For more variety 
one circuit can be done by walking the 
sections in reverse order, that is, starting 
at the finish gate and walking with the 
blue markers on the right, and the red on 
the left. 

Reflective Recreation 

Reflective recreation is a thoughtful 
approach to activity that is very useful to 
anyone interested in powers of learning. 
The personal ability of individuals to 
direct and control their own learning is the 
most significant factor in determining 
character and lifestyle. Too much of 
contemporary life fragments experience 
and institutionalizes power so that 
individuals frequently have little sense of 
their own abilities and potential. 

We learn through experience, but not 
just in the immediate sense of developing 
specific skills, for with a little perspective 
we can also learn about our own processes 
of learning and how to direct and control 
them. Learning to do things is only a 
beginning, learning how to know how to 
do things is another step towards under¬ 
standing and control of one’s own 
actions. This broader understanding does 
not come with experience alone. It comes 
with reflection on experience. Experience 
is necessary — the more of it and the 
greater the variety the better, but it is our 
analysis of experience that develops 
wisdom. 

Which brings us back to Trials 
Walking. Some activities have more 
obvious general learning potential than 
others, that is, in some activities it is easier 
to see the learning and some of the 
principles that govern it. Trials Walking is 
such an activity. 



27 






f 


I 


/ 
/ • 


I 

$ 

§ 


J 



SUBSCRIPTION INFORMATION 

Canadian Camping Magazine is the official publication of the Canadian Camping Association. 
Editorial offices of the Magazine are located at R.R. #1, Huntsville, Ontario, POA 1K0. 

Membership in the C.C.A., as a result of membership in a provincial camping association, 
includes a subscription to the Magazine. Non member subscription is $8.00/year. Single issue price 
is $2.00. Make cheques payable to the Canadian Camping Association. Send subscriptions, sub¬ 
missions, or address changes to the editorial offices. 

Canadian Camping Magazine is published four times yearly. Deadlines for submissions are 
October 1, December 1, February 15 and May 1. Material in Canadian Camping Magazine may 
not be reproduced in any form without the expressed written permission of the editor. Copyright 
1986 Canadian Camping Association. 


tAiVlPiiNJD 

mSHAliM 



LES INFORMATIONS DE LA SOUSCRIPTION 


Canadian Camping Magazine est la publication officielle de I’Association des Camps 
du Canada. Les bureaux de la r6daction se trouvent & R.R. n 1, Huntsville, Ontario POA 
1K0. 

L’adh6sion A I'A.C.C., le rGsultat de l'adh6sion A une association provinciale, com- 
prend une souscription & la revue. La souscription pour ceux qui ne sont pas les 
membres coute $8.00 par an. Une livraison coute $2.00. Faites les cheques & I’ordre de 
"Canadian Camping Association". Envoyez les souscriptions, les soumissions ou les 
changements d’adresse aux bureaux de la rfedaction. 

Canadian Camping Magazine est publi quatre fois par an. Les dates limites pour les 
soumissions sont le 1 er octobre, le 1 er dfecembre, le 15 dme tevrier et le 1 er mai. Les 
matdraux daus "Canadian Camping Magazine" ne peuvent pas 6tre reproduit sans 
autorisation de l’6diteur. Copyright 1986 Canadian Camping Association. 


If you would like to receive a complete 
English translation of any article in 
Canadian Camping Magazine, send a 
stamped self addressed envelope with 
your request to Canadian Camping 
Magazine, R.R. #1, Huntsville, Ontario 
POA 1K0. 


Si vous voudriez recevoir une 
traduction complete en anglais d'un 
article dans Canadian Camping 
Magazine, envoyez une enveloppe 
timbr6e pour la r6ponse avec votre 
demande &: Canadian Camping 
Magazine, R.R. #1, Huntsville, 
Ontario POA 1K0. 


COVER 

The cover photo features the five previous 
mastheads of the Canadian Camping Magazine. 


LA COUVERTURE 

La couverture met en vedette les cinq 
tates de m^t du “Canadian Camping 
Magazine” depuis son origine. 

























