- 


v .... ; , 

. 

Wk} : ' ' 


. 

■ ' • ;; 

OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 




V : , 




CANADIAN CAMPING 




December 1952 

TORONTO, CANADA 











QreetlngA 

for 1953 



To the directors of Camps of the 
Canadian Camping Association 

Zllianks for your Goodwill 
and Good Business 


GIBBONS ^ U,< i« SET DESSERTS 

Quality 


106 Adelaide Street West 


Toronto, Canada 


EMpire 6-5085 













From EATONS 

For years we’ve been outfitting campers with almost everything they need to 
help make their camping holiday as enjoyable as possible. The following are a few 
of the camping necessities available at EATON’S Sporting Goods Dept.: Ground 
Sheets, Thermos Jugs, Iceboxes, Dunnage Bags, Blanket Pins, Sun Helmets, Plates, 
Pots, Cups, Fishing Tackle, Mosquito Bars, Gasoline Stoves and Lanterns, Folding 
Cots, Chairs, Rucksacks, Packsacks, Sleeping Bags. Contact Sporting Goods 
Department. 

EATO NS 


Toronto, Canada, December, 1952 


3 

































CAMPING IS FUN 

Keep our camping sites 
suitable for healthy 
outdoor recreation 

AVOID FOREST FIRES. 

ONTARIO DEPARTMENT 
OF LANDS AND FORESTS 



ONTARIO 

HON. WELLAND S. GEMMELL 
Minister 

F. A. MacDOUGALL 
Deputy Minister 


GUMPERT HAS EVERYTHING 



FOR THE FINEST IN FOODS 


GUMPERT 


HAS EVERYTHING 


S. GUMPERT CO. OF CANADA, LTD. 

31 BROCK AVE., TORONTO ME. 5758 





THE PERFECT 
CHRISTMAS 

GIFT .... 




MOCCASIN 
SLIPPER KITS! 

Y OU can make everyday seem like 
Christmas, when you give a pair 
of "Sportsman" Moccasin Slip¬ 
pers, made from the finest quality 
cowhide. You can lace them together 
easily and quickly, or give them as is, 
in attractive kit form. Either way, a 
gift of lasting comfort and quality. 


"SPORSTMAN" MOCCASIN KITS 

Men's Style— 

Sizes 7 to 11, natural shade, 

cotton laces. Postpaid, pair $3.GO 

Women's Style— 

Sizes 3 to 8, natural shade, 
cotton laces. Postpaid, pair $3.00 

Men's and Women's style in 
colours of blue, red or black, 
cotton laces. Postpaid, pair $3.10 

Children's Style— 

Sizes 1 0 to 2, natural shade, 
cotton laces. Postpaid, pair $2.70 

Colours of blue, red or black, 
cotton laces. Postpaid, pair $2.95 


V' 

jf _ J * * 


1 


"For Handicraft it'slewiscraft' 


8 BATHURST ST., TORONTO, ONT. 


4 


Canadian Camping 








CANADIAN CAMPING, 

Vol. IV DECEMBER, 1952 No. 4 


CONTENTS 


Spiritual Values in Camping. 

Music in Camp . 

Long Range Plan for Leadership 

C.C.A. News Letter. 

Safety Provisions.-. 

Double-Purpose Incinerator . 

We Tried This. 

Book Reviews . 

Safety Tips .... 

In Lighter Vein . 


. Dr. Lowell B. Hazzard 7 

. Barbara Cass-Beggs 11 

. Ben Solomon 14 

. W. E. Yard 17 

. L. B. Smith 19 

._. David Palter 20 

J. Colbert and J. Manning 22 

.,. 24 

.. W. S. Gemmell 26 

... 29 


Cover Photo—R. Muckleston 
Frontispiece—Canadian Girls in Training 


CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 
Office: 52 Avenue Road, Toronto 


Honorary President 

A. L. Cochrane, Toronto 

Past Presidents 

Taylor Statten, Toronto 
Dais L. Gass, Montreal 
Anne I. Vail, Montreal 

President 

W. E. (Ted) Yard 
Central Y.M.C.A. 

40 College St., Toronto 

Vice Presidents 

Irwin Haladner, Toronto 
F. M. Van Wagner, Montreal 
Mrs. I. H. McDonald, Manitoba 


Executive-Secretary 
Joyce Bertram 
52 Avenue Road, Toronto 

Treasurer 

To be appointed 

Editor 

Mary S. Edgar 

64 St. Clair Ave. W., Toronto 

Assistant Editor 
Mary L. Northway 
164 Mill Street 
Richmond Hill, Ontario 

Publishing Agent 
Fred Haiblen 

170 Bloor St. W., Toronto 


“CANADIAN CAMPING” IS PUBLISHED FOUR TIMES A YEAR BY THE CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
CO. FOR THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION AT 170 BLOOR ST. WEST, TORONTO, ONTARIO. SUB¬ 
SCRIPTION PRICES: MEMBERSHIP IN THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION INCLUDES CANADIAN 
CAMPING: TO NON-MEMBERS, 35 CENTS PER COPY, $1.25 PER YEAR, S3.50 FOR THREE YEARS. 
AUTHORIZED AS SECOND CLASS MAIL. POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT. OTTAWA. ONT. 


Toronto, Canada, December, 1952 


5 



























What is Camp without Music? John Palmer 

A lamp Son if 

(Tune: “I’ll see you again.”) 

We'll return again, 

Whenever Camp fires burn again, 

Winters may be long and drear 
But we'll be here 
When summer calls us. 

Days so glad and free 

Will always linger in memory; 

And whatever we may do, 

Lakes and skies of azure blue, 

Bring us dreams our whole life through 
Of you. 


6 


Canadian Camping 




Spiritual Values 

in Campintj ® 

Dr. Lowell B. Hazzard 

Professor of Old Testament at Wesminster (Md.) Theological Seminary 


Never in history has so much 
depended on the spiritual orientation of 
youth. And no group of people in the 
country—preachers, teachers, or parents 
—has a greater opportunity to direct 
that orientation than the people who 
live with children and adolescents 
through camping experiences of the 
summer months. Lives have been 
changed repeatedly in summer camps. 
No one goes through a camping experi¬ 
ence without its leaving some mark 
upon his spirit. Whether you know it 
or not, whether you desire it or not, you 
are going to affect for good or ill, the 
spiritual lives of the young people with 
whom you deal. 

I want to make clear at the outset 
what I am thinking of when I speak 
of the spiritual values in camping. I 
am not dealing with the teachings of 
any religious group—Protestant, Cath¬ 
olic, or Jewish. I am not thinking of 
any religious indoctrination program, 
nor of the formal provisions which you 
may or may not make in your camps 
for worship. I am thinking rather of 
that deeper thing which is basic for 
all of us, the orientation of our souls 
toward God and toward our fellow- 
men. I am suggesting that, not tacked 
on but inherent in the very nature of 
camping itself, there is the opportunity 


for all of us to see to it that the young 
people in our care attain a deeply 
spiritual grounding for life. 

Let me first of all suggest to you 
the points at which it seems to me the 
camp experience, unless we hopelessly 
distort it and misuse it, contains raw 
material for the best spiritual training 
which can possibly be given. There 
are two major aspects of camp life 
which cause this to be true. 

The first is its closeness to nature. 
In the camp you are likely, at least 
part of the time, to erect your own 
shelter and cook your own food. You 
build your own fire and paddle your 
own canoe. As you do these things, 
you are close under the eyes of nature 
and you come to know her as a friend. 
You discover the treasures of the forest 
or the meadow. You climb hills and 
you make friends with trees, birds, 
animals, and even insects. Camping 
today is increasingly close to nature. In 
this lies one of its major spiritual values. 

Advantages of Natural Setting 

Let us see what closeness to nature 
will do for the camper if we are care¬ 
ful to see that it does. First, it will 
call out the sense of wonder. Perhaps 
the purest approach to the reality of 
God is the sense of wonder. 


Toronto, Canada, December, 1952 


1 


Take a book like “How Miracles 
Abound” and see whether you can 
read it without a profound sense of the 
reality of God. Then think of your 
opportunities as you introduce children 
to the beauty of the mushroom pattern, 
the symmetry of a spider web, the 
golden glow of sunshine after rain. 
There is no worship experience more 
poignant than the experience of the 
sunset over the lake as a group of 
junior-highs catch their breath at the 
glowing and fading of colors and a 
sensitive counselor softly says, “God 
who touchest earth with beauty, Make 
me lovely, too.” 

In the second place, there is the 
experience of harmony and order. One 
of the tragedies of our present situation 
is that we have lived so long in the 
presence of the distorted and the ab¬ 
normal that we actually mistake ab¬ 
normality for normality and distortion 
for the real. Think of the world to 
which these campers of ours belong, 
a world of blaring radios and flicker¬ 
ing television, a world of gangster 
comics and torrid movies, a world of 
jungle music and art without meaning. 
Then think of the world to which we 
are privileged to introduce them — a 
world of balanced harmony of light 
and shade, of mass and color, of trees 
and mountains that put on nothing 
and strive for no effect but are beauti¬ 
ful just by being themselves. 

I do not mean that we would be 
contributing to the spiritual growth of 
our youth by permitting them to es¬ 
cape from their disordered world into 
the peace of nature, and never go back. 
This distorted world into which they 
have been born is their world and they 
must live in it. But if they are to re¬ 
main sane, they must have the cor¬ 


rective which harmony and order of 
nature bring. 

Not once, but several times in my 
life, it has come over me with the 
force of a revelation that the great 
evils of the world are man-made, and 
that if we would cure the sickness of 
a maddened world, we must return to 
nature for the great lessons which God 
would have us learn. 

The best cure for the gaudiness, the 
artificiality and the fever which is our 
civilization’s worst gift to her children, 
is the unselfconscious order of the world 
that God has made. If ordinarily we 
live in the midst of man’s disorder, in 
camp we come into the presence of 
God’s design. 

In the third place, nature confronts 
us by a challenge to creativity in res¬ 
ponse to God’s great creativeness. Not 
that as we finger clay, dabble with 
paint or learn to weave or dye in 
camp we set out to imitate nature, but 
that the prodigal creativeness of nature 
sets loose within the human spirit that 
urge which makes us all akin to God— 
the urge to create out of the deepest 
yearnings of our spirit forms of beauty 
that are even yet waiting to be released. 
Blessed is the camp counselor who 
teaches the child to see and unlock 
within him something that is there, 
waiting to be set free. 

A fourth value gained from living 
close to nature is adaptability. Nature 
is inexorable. Rain falls in spite of all 
our fond desires. But when we learn 
to live with nature, to adapt ourselves 
to her moods, we find that in every 
aspect she is beautiful. The person 
who finds rain “depressing” or storms 
“frightening” has not been camping. 


8 


Canadian Camping 


One remembers the little child whose 
mother thought he would be afraid of 
the storm. But he jumped up and down 
when the thunder crashed and cried, 
“Do it again God, do it again!” And 
one remembers days in camp when a 
storm was not a signal to run away, 
but to loosen tent ropes. To a real 
camper the vicissitudes of life become 
a challenge and in natures every aspect 
appears the hand of God. 

Cooperative Fellowship 

There is another part of camp life, 
which is just as rich in spiritual values. 
That is its cooperative fellowship. 
What does the cooperative fellowship 
of camp experience do for a camper? 
In the first place it helps him to dis¬ 
cover community. We are members 
one of another and our world is going 
to disintegrate completely unless we 
recognize it. 

Now, nowhere does one discover the 
necessity and the job of community 
more fully than at camp. There is 
simply no place for the lone wolf in 
the camp experience; no place, either, 
for the selfish person who expects to 
be waited on but not to serve; no 
place for cliches, for snobs, for social 
barriers, for anything but fellowship. 
In camp, artificial distinctions melt 
away and we are who we are, persons, 
all having our own significance, no 
more and no less than our fellows, part 
of a beloved community. 

There is a second aspect of this fel¬ 
lowship experience — democracy — the 
sharing of responsibility. Who, as a 
camp counselor, has not seen a camper 
—a junior or a junior-high, pampered 
or dominated at home—take a respon¬ 
sibility for the first time and grow 
greatly under it? Who has not mar¬ 
velled at the wisdom and poise of 


juniors and seniors alike when they 
came to decisions under the stimulus 
of shared responsibility? 

Democracy also means a leveling 
process in which, at certain points, the 
camper may even be able to teach the 
counselor, and all artificial distinctions 
drop away. In these days of the in¬ 
creasing importance of “brass,” the 
leveling experience of a camp where 
all wear the same kind of clothes, and 
“No one” as Jesus said, “is called 
Teacher” is all to the good. 

There is one further point which 
may or may not belong to this ex¬ 
perience of fellowship, but which is 
certainly one of the spiritual values in 
camp life, and that is the sheer ele¬ 
mentalness of it. There is some con¬ 
troversy, I know, as to how primitive 
a camp should be. But while, perhaps, 
it need not always be completely primi¬ 
tive, the genius of camping is that it 
is raw. 

It is amazing how many good 
qualities are revealed in human nature 
when life is stripped down to its es¬ 
sentials. The experience of camp life, 
dangers shared, precautions learned, 
care exercised, responsibility for each 
other’s safety—all these are spiritual 
values, teaching of which is made 
possible by the conditions under which 
campers live. Unexpected skills are de¬ 
veloped, unexpected inner resources 
uncovered as campers face situations 
from which they have been protected 
all their lives. 

Necessary Values 

Here I must try to indicate how 
very necessary in our contemporary 
life is the development of just those 
values which camping is calculated to 
teach. 


Toronto , Canada , December , 1952 


9 


First there is the prevalence in our 
day of secularism and materialism. 
Secularism is not atheism, nor is it 
exactly naturalism or humanism. It is 
that attitude toward life which feels 
that “it doesn’t make any difference 
what a man believes so long as he 
lives right,” which puts material com¬ 
fort before everything else in its list of 
values, which has long ceased to have 
any definite convictions about anything 
except that it is important to get ahead. 

What men need today is not so much 
a rebirth of dogma as a rebirth of faith, 
laith in the ultimately spiritual bases of 
the universe, precisely the faith camp¬ 
ing calculates to arouse. 

Second, there is militarism. Many of 
us have not awakened yet to the threat 
to our entire way of life which is in¬ 
volved in the growing tendency to 
militarize the living and thinking of 
our youth. Many of the things upon 
which our Judaeo-Christian civilization 
is built-—-freedom, brotherhood, creativ¬ 
ity—are threatened by militarism, with 
its regimentation, its barked orders, and 
its inculcation of the belief that love 
and goodwill are soft and the sword is 
the final arbiter in the relationships of 
men. 

The creative and democratic fellow¬ 
ship of camp-life, camp with its em¬ 
phases on creativity and goodwill, is 
the best antidote possible for this 
philosophy which threatens to poison 
today’s youth. The best way to combat 
communism and totalitarianism of all 
kinds is to implant deeply in the minds 
and hearts of youth a love for and a 
belief in democratic values, and to give 
youth the satisfying experience of living 
by these values. 

In the free give-and-take of camp 
life, the true democracy of it proce¬ 
dures. the belief in one another, the 


fellowship, there is something which 
will make American youth ever opposed 
to all kinds of totalitarian procedures. 
The American camp is the best proof oi 
superiority of our way of life over the 
civilization of the concentration camp. 

Ours is a wasteful culture. The 
camper learns not to waste. He learns 
the conservation of natural resources, 
and why. 

Ours is a transient culture. To dis¬ 
cover, even for a little while, the earth 
from which our sustenance comes and 
the eternity of hills and stars is to get: 
a sense of stability which all our root¬ 
lessness cannot completely destroy. 

Camping without a sense of spiritual 
values is camping with its heart left out. 
The values are inherent in camp life. 
You do not have to drag them in. They 
are there. But your campers may 
largely miss them unless you feel them 
first. Happy is the leader whose own 
awareness of spiritual values is so high 
and keen that the camping experiences 
into which he leads his boys and girls 
arc all high spiritual adventures. 

*From a Talk given at the American 
Camping Association Convention, 
Chicago. 



10 


Canadian Camping 




MUSIC fit Camp 

Barbara Cass-Beggs, L.R.A.M., A.R.C.M.* 


Plow can we make the best use of 
music in Camp? This is a question of 
real interest these days now that Camps 
are beginning to realize that Dramatics, 
Handwork, modern as well as square 
dancing and particularly Music, not 
only “belong” but form an essential part 
of any Camp programme. (Can you 
imagine, for example, a campfire where 
no one sang, or a trip when no camp 
songs were composed?) Certain camps, 
groups and individuals have pioneered 
musically, but even so there is always 
room for new ideas—and in many 
camps music still belongs in the “hit 
and miss” category. 

One of the reasons for this is a lack 
of good music or song leaders—and this 
could be, at least partially, overcome 
by a pre-camp course for song leaders— 
(such as the pre-camp courses on 
Campcraft, etc.). Such a course could 
cover simply conducting, some know¬ 
ledge of how to use the voice-range, 
breathing and diction—what songs to 
choose and why, and what song books 
are the most useful. Further time 
could be well spent on learning how to 
plan a Record session and what records 
to use; how to include a rhythm band 
and camp orchestra and how to organ¬ 
ize a choir which can tackle part-sing¬ 
ing, anthems for the worship services 
and possibly present an operetta. 


There is a wide range of musical 
activity and music directors or song 
leaders (whatever we want to call 
them) will need help if they are to do 
a good job. When and how music is 
introduced into the camp programme 
depends upon the type of programme 
and the type of leadership available, 
but here are a few suggestions which 
may be of some use. 

1. The entire camp—campers and staff 
(for staff cannot help in singing songs 
if they do not know the songs) should 
have one period of singing per day, 
preferably not in the open air and 
preferably with a piano. When new 
songs are taught, after a meal is a good 
time, when they are still seated at their 
tables. This session should be orderly— 
everyone should be expected to take 
part and all the new and musically 
worth-while songs and rounds can be 
introduced at this session. If the camp 
is very big, this period might be taken 
in turn by the different sections. By the 
end of a month’s camp the campers 
would have a repertoire of at least 50 
good (and new to them) folk songs or 
rounds. Each session should include 
one or two new songs—a well-known 
song — something serious — something 
rowdy — something lively — something 
quiet and, through the use of descants, 
informal harmony, solos and chorus and 


Toronto, Canada, December, 1952 


11 


anti phonal singing, so these sessions 
need never be dull. Informal sing-songs 
take place at campfires, on hikes, in 
cabin groups and after meals. 

2. All those in camp with any kind of 
a musical instrument should be formed 
into a band (kitchen equipment can be 
used for percussion and all kinds of 
instruments made in the Arts and Crafts 
sessions. This band should meet once a 
week—or more often if so desired, on 
their own. The band can be used to 
accompany singing at Campfires, to 
play before or after a dramatic perform¬ 
ance. The band, as such, should not be 
taken too seriously—it is fun and it is 
noisy. If you are lucky enough to have 
a few string players, or woodwind, then 
some kind of quartet might be formed 
which could attempt more serious work. 
Along the same lines it will be found 
that some cabin groups — usually the 
younger ones, 7-11, will enjoy one or 
two rhythm band periods per week and 
this group can perform at a camp pro¬ 
gramme or be used as suggested for the 
camp band. The band would of course 
take part in any carnival or camp pro¬ 
cessions. 

3. Singing in small groups does not 
appeal to the younger ones so much, 
but a group will enjoy singing if it can 
act out or dramatize the songs and many 
folk songs are most suitable for this 
purpose. Amongst the teenagers there 
is always a minority who show real 
interest and nothing can be more lovely 
than a small choir to lead in worship 
services, learn new and easy part songs, 
etc., or perhaps, if some staff members 
help, form a Madrigal group (Madri¬ 
gals are particularly effective as they 
are always sung unaccompanied and 
every vocal part is of interest. 

4. Informal listening to records during 
rest hour, or at the end of evening 


programme is usually much appre¬ 
ciated. On Sunday after lunch or some 
time on Sunday evening, some simple 
music appreciation is worth attempting 
—the life story of a composer, the back¬ 
ground of a song, etc., with records or, 
better still, with the campers themselves 
playing. Some camps have professional 
musicians employed just to provide a 
concert every Sunday and to play to 
the children at other times, but when 
this is not feasible, records or, better 
still, performances by the campers 
themselves, prove quite adequate. 

5. Finally, an Operetta makes a won¬ 
derful all-camp project, but it does take 
time! 

In Camp Gay Venture, where I had 
the pleasure of leading the music this, 
summer, and where free choice is the 
order of the day, we had a rhythm 
band; an entire section working on 
dramatized folk songs; a choir, which 
met twice or three times a week for 
anthems, etc.; an operetta, which was 
really the choice of a group of 14 teen¬ 
agers, but finally became a project for 
the whole camp—with the boys making 
a totem pole and setting up the scenery 
—Senior Counsellors dancing and or¬ 
ganizing a dance with the junior girls 
and the Dramatics personnel helping 
with the production and costumes. We 
also found time for a short music appre¬ 
ciation session each Sunday after lunch. 

On Sunday evenings we put on a 
rather special programme in which folk 
lore stories or lives of famous people 
were dramatized and appropriate songs 
and incidental music were woven in. 
Those taking part dressed up and some 
real care was taken that the atmosphere 
of the period and character were caught 
—as a result, these evenings proved 
most popular. 


12 


Canadian Camping 


Of course in camp you cannot and 
should not expect a finished perform¬ 
ance. There are constant interruptions 
and changes of personnel, but within 
limits these can all be part of the fun. 
On the other hand, in any musical 
activity certain limits must be set and 
certain standards attained, otherwise 
neither those participating or those 
listening can enjoy what is going on. 
Now you may very well say “This is 
fine, but every child is not musically 
inclined so why should he be made to 
sing or take part in a band?” Suppose 
before we answer that question we take 
a look at the rest of the camp pro¬ 
gramme. Does every child when he first 
comes to camp love swimming? Does 
every child have good eating habits? 
We don’t force them to swim or eat but 
we do show them what fun it is to swim 
and how much more enjoyable it is to 
eat the right kind of food in the right 
way, and by degrees they do discover 
that these new and hitherto distasteful 
occupations can be real fun and new 
sources of enjoyment. 

Now while we are thinking of sources 
of enjoyment let us consider one more. 
“Singing is fine, but my campers like 
to shout—they don’t enjoy it if they 
don’t shout”. In a real sing-song, child¬ 
ren and adults do not have to shout in 
order to enjoy music and for the follow¬ 
ing reasons: — 

1. Shouting is not singing. 

2. Continuous shouting is actually 
harmful to the voice and the campers 
will lose their voice or get hoarse. There 
are plenty of good opportunities in 
camp where shouting and cheering, etc., 
are fine, but don’t let’s get this confused 
with singing and sing-songs. 

3. Singing is a group activity and if 
some shout or some rush the song to 
such an extent that the group as such 


cannot participate, then it is not singing 
and it is not fun. 

Music can mean so much, as can all 
the Arts. Not all our campers are great 
“he-men” and many more than we 
think, including the “he-men”, would 
welcome the opportunity to read, to be 
quiet and listen to records, to sing and 
learn to play some instrument, to act in 
a good play, to sing in an operetta if 
it was considered the natural thing to 
do and if there were sufficient oppor¬ 
tunities for such participation. We all 
know that music is worthwhile in itself, 
but in camp it is of special value in that 
it has that unique capacity for creating 
atmosphere and drawing a group to¬ 
gether. The group you sing with, the 
things you sing about—what memories 
of camp live in certain songs! When 
you look back and think of your camp 
experiences you hear the wind in the 
trees and the lapping of the water and 
the notes of a violin—a thread of mel¬ 
ody in the still air. You hear once more 
the great bursts of song when everyone 
was in such high spirits and with 
thoughts of the glowing campfire come 
the warm sweet harmonies of your 
friends the campers. 

Yes, music belongs—let’s do all we 
can to see that we have more music and 
better music in camp. 

^Barbara Cass-Bcggs, L.R.A.M., A.R.C.M., 
was former Director of the University Settle¬ 
ment Music School & Music School Camp— 
now of the University of Swansea, South 
Wales. 




Toronto, Canada, December, 1952 


13 


Lonigr Hunyc SHan 

For Camp Lradrrship 

Ben Solomon 

Editor: Youth Leaders Digest 
From an address given at Springfield College. 


If the field of camping is ever to 
become the high-grade profession it 
most surely deserves to be and must 
eventually be, then the first and most 
important step that must be taken is 
to professionalize the position of camp 
director. Therefore if the camp director 
is to be a professional then he must 
have the benefit of the special kind of 
training needed for that job. It must be 
given in an accredited curriculum in an 
accredited school leading to examina¬ 
tion, graduation and certification by 
law. This, naturally, means that he will 
also have to have certain personal and 
professional qualifications acceptable to 
the examining board. 

For as long as I can remember in 
this field, and that goes back to 1925, 
there has been a continuous demand 
for qualified camp counselors. A good 
counselor must be a college man or a 
graduate; he must have an intimate 
knowledge of children, their actions and 
reactions; he must understand camping 
techniques and camp administration 
policies and practices; he must be an 
excellent leader for children, able to in¬ 
fluence their character and to improve 
their skills and abilities, and along with 
many other requirements, he must be a 
man or woman of excellent morals and 
character and a shining example for the 
children to emulate. Over 200 colleges 
have special training courses for camp 
counselorship. 


But where do we hear of the qualifi¬ 
cations or the training of camp direc¬ 
tors? What personal, technical and pro¬ 
fessional attributes must a camp director 
have? He is more important in the 
operation of a camp than any counselor. 
He, the camp director, is entirely and 
solely responsible for everything that 
goes on in camp. He is responsible for 
the health, the safety and the general 
welfare of all the children and all the 
staff. His responsibility is made particu- 
uarly serious and difficult because the 
summer camp for children is generally 
located in a primitive outdoors area, 
mountain or forest country, distant from 
all the normal aids, inspections and 
controls of organized communities like 
cities, towns or villages. Yet for this 
position, in too many cases, especially in 
private camps and day camps, you need 
no qualifications, no training, no experi¬ 
ence y no education; you don’t even need 
to be of decent character to open a 
camp and appoint yourself camp 
director. 

Maybe it’s time for a laugh, although 
what I am about to say some of you 
won’t think very funny. I have before 
me a pamphlet issued by the Secretary 
of State of New York State, the largest 
camping state in America. This pam¬ 
phlet outlines in detail the professional 
requirements and procedure, step by 
step, necessary and preliminary to tak¬ 
ing a state examination to qualify you 


14 


Can adian Cam ping 


to hang out your shingle and practice 
this profession in New York State. 

I want to play a little game with you 
about this pamphlet. I will read the 
professional requirements, qualifications 
and procedures as outlined here and 
you try to guess what profession it is. 
You are all fully acquainted with this 
profession and many thousands of per¬ 
sons, men and women, throughout this 
country practice it. 

In order to make application for this 
kind of work and to take a state exam¬ 
ination to become certificated, which by 
the way is compulsory, the applicant is 
required to submit evidence to the Sec¬ 
retary of State that (1) he is of good 
moral character, that (2) he has satis¬ 
factory education, and (3) he must 
present a physician’s certificate attesting 
to his general good health. (4) he must 
be free of any communicable disease, 

(5) he must prove that he is not a user 
of narcotics or a chronic alcoholic and 

(6) that he is a graduate of an ac¬ 
credited college. (7) He must also have 
a minimum of two years’ actual experi¬ 
ence in this work, and then, and then 
only is he eligible to take the examina¬ 
tion for the certificate. (He hasn’t got 
it yet.) After these seven requirements 
are met, he must then (8) pass separate 
written and (9) oral examinations 
which have been created by a State 
Board of five experts in this field in 
collaboration with the State Board 
of Education. If he passes the ex¬ 
aminations, he must then (10) give 
an actual demonstration of his skill in 
this field and convince them of his 
ability and fitness to practice. If all this 
is satisfactory and upon payment of a 
fee the State Board will issue him a 
certificate of competence, making him 
eligible to seek a position in this field. 
Now then, if by any chance he does not 
want to work for others but wants to 


hang out his own shingle, to have his 
own office or place of business, he must 
again satisfy the State Board that he has 
the proper location for this work, and 
that he has made adequate arrange¬ 
ments to meet all state laws and 
codes pertaining to this work and 
particularly that he has adequate equip¬ 
ment and facilities to conduct this prac¬ 
tice. He then pays an additional fee 
for this additional certificate, which, by 
the way, must be renewed and paid 
annually. There is of course, in addi¬ 
tion to all this, a long list of possible 
violations of professional practice or 
pertaining to his person and character 
which can very easily get his certificates 
revoked. 

What profession do you think all 
these requirements, qualifications, ex¬ 
aminations, practical demonstration, 
etc., etc., refer to? 

Believe it or not (here is the law and 
you can come read it for yourself)—all 
of what I have just outlined is necessary 
before you can become a barber in New 
York State; before you are considered 
eligible to trim hair and shave people. 

Well, that’s fine! It’s good to know 
that we have healthy, high-grade, good- 
charactered, able and responsible pro¬ 
fessional persons as barbers. But a camp 
director can be a felon; he can be of 
low morals, a psychotic, an illiterate, 
chronically sick, habitually drunk or a 
drug addict; he can be a fanatic of any 
type, emotionally unbalanced—anyone, 
anywhere, anytime, in any state, can go 
into the camp business, take your chil¬ 
dren and mine under his care in distant 
areas, away from adequate inspection 
and control. Isn’t it about time that we 
did something about it? Won’t it be a 
fine day when camp directors are 
brought up to the level of barbers? 
Most of the accidents and many of the 


Toronto 3 CanadaDecember. 1952 


15 


illnesses that occur every summer are 
preventable. A camp director who is 
qualified^ who is trained and who really 
cares about children can make many of 
these deaths unnecessary. 

More Standards Are Needed 

Of course, much more is needed in 
this long-range plan. We need stan¬ 
dards for all personnel. We need stan¬ 
dards relating to the general location of 
the camp and to the camp site itself. 
Especially is this true when we think 
about some of the day camps that are 
springing up all over. We need practi¬ 
cal standards about all the various types 
of buildings that are being used in many 
camps. Some are firetraps and others 
are health hazards. We’ve made a start 
in a few states on sanitation standards 
but there’s much more that is needed in 
this regard, and certainly it’s long past 
due that standards of practice pertain¬ 
ing to medical control, to the health of 
campers were put into effect. There’s 


refrigeration and preparation of foods, 
and in other divisions of camp opera¬ 
tion. We need adequate standards in all 
these fields, but these will take a long 
time to evolve, to create, to test again 
and again, and to put into practice. 

Lastly, creating all these standards 
won’t be enough. We’ll have to find 
practical ways of enforcing them in the 
hope that year by year the whole field 
of camping will be upgraded, the pro¬ 
fession made stronger and the values 
which derive from camping made surer. 

We need a state-wide system of acci¬ 
dent reporting so that at all times we 
can know what the condition is in 
camps, which in itself is half the battle. 
We must evolve an adequte system of 
inspection, not only of sanitation items, 
but of all facets of camp operation. 
Then certainly we can look forward in 
confidence to the day when all person¬ 
nel is qualified and professionally certi¬ 
ficated by law. Then and then only 
camping will become a real profession. 



16 


Canadian CampincJ 



I'anatiian la ns pin if Association 
News Letter 


Dear Camping Friends, 

As this is the last issue of Canadian 
Camping for the year 1952, perhaps it 
would be appropriate to draw to your 
attention certain specific items arising 
Irom our recent Canadian Camping 
Association Board meeting which affect 
all of our camping constituency. In 
several instances it would be extremely 
helpful if you would write to the 
National Office with your impressions 
and thoughts on points stated here. It 
is becoming increasingly evident that 
the very small number of regular cor¬ 
respondents among our far flung mem¬ 
bership presents one of the most serious 
obstacles to developing a truly National 
Camping Association. May we soon 
number you among those who write 
regularly. 

Helpful material available this year— 

B.C. Camping Institute Program 

Ontario Camping Association Busi¬ 
ness Principles 

Canadian Camping Association Op¬ 
erating Code 

Ontario Camping Association Direc¬ 
tory 

There are bound to be numerous 
other worthwhile pieces of literature 
and we would be delighted 1 6 receive 
copies from individual members or 
Provincial Executives. 

A request from the Manitoba Asso¬ 
ciation for clarification of the Provincial 
Association titles resulted in a recent 
Board decision that Provincial Associa¬ 
tions should be known as “Manitoba 
Camping Association—A section of the 
Canadian Camping Association”. 


In Ontario, the Provincial Govern¬ 
ment have worked closely with the 
Standards Committee and it seems that 
certain basic standards may soon be¬ 
come mandatory in that Province— 
have you a copy of the Ontario Camp¬ 
ing Association Standards? They are 
available at the Association Office. 

We are now endeavouring to secure 
a list of all Children’s Camps in Can¬ 
ada. There are various ways in which 
such a list may be developed but all of 
them will involve considerable work. If 
your local Association has developed a 
hst of all the camps in your Province 
you are urged to contact the Member¬ 
ship Chairman, Mr. C. T. Sharpe, 
giving him the information you have 
available. 

The Editorial Committee of the 
Camping Magazine welcomes articles 
from members all across this vast coun¬ 
try of ours. Some of us are more and 
more convinced that rather unique and 
extremely progressive things are hap¬ 
pening in Canadian camps. The Camp¬ 
ing Magazine presents an opportunity 
for you to “tell the story”. Please for¬ 
ward your articles to the Magazine 
Editor. She would also welcome the use 
of cuts used in your annual publicity 
and you may be assured that they will 
be returned to you in good order. 

The Health and Safety Committee, 
under the Chairmanship of Dr. Harry 
Ebbs, arc conducting a survey and 
would like to receive copies of health 
and medical forms used in our Cana¬ 
dian camps. 

We sincerely hope to hear from many 
of you regarding points raised in this 
News Letter. In some instances our 


Toronto, Canada , December, 1952 


17 


camp people are developing winter 
camp projects, the story of these too 
would be extremely worthwhile for 
consideration by our Editorial Commit¬ 
tee. We sincerely hope that the points 
raised here—concerns of your Canadian 
Camping Association Executive Com¬ 
mittee—will in some part become your 
personal concerns and those of your 
Provincial Associations. If we may hear 
from you individually or from your cor¬ 
responding secretary to the effect that 
these matters have found a place on the 
agenda in your Association meetings, we 
know that progress will be made this 
winter. 

Thanks indeed for your interest and 
co-operation and sincere good wishes 
for the Christmas holiday season. 

Yours very truly, 

W. E. (Ted) Yard, 
President. 

Notes 

from the Provinces 

Ontario Camping Association 

The first open meeting of the season 
was held on October 29th and the 
special speaker was Prof. Charles E. 
Hendry of The Toronto University 
School of Social Work on the subject 
of “Personal Policies and Practices 
relating to Camp Counselors”. The talk 
was based on a survey made in Ontario 
Camps on Standards. 

British Columbia Camping Association 

At the first general meeting held in 
Vancouver of the B.C. Camping Asso¬ 
ciation, the exciting topic of the evening 
was: “What’s New in Your Camp?” 
Many valuable ideas were shared by 
Camp leaders. “To keep our standards 
high we shall discuss better methods of 
fire protection, waterfront safety and 
trained leadership”. As a result of these 
discussions much valuable information 
and experiences were shared. 


National CGiT Camp 

Dency R. McCalla* 

The first National C.G.I.T. Camp for 
girls has become a reality. A dream, a 
great deal of creative and consecrated 
preparation, support from provincial 
boards, local churches and Canadian 
Girls In Training combined to make it 
possible. Camp Kwasind, the beautiful 
site owned by the Baptist Convention of 
Ontario and Quebec, situated on Skele¬ 
ton Lake in Muskoka, was the setting 
for this Camp. Sixty-five girls, thirteen 
leaders and five overseas guests, repre¬ 
sentative of every province in Canada 
and of Africa, India, Korea, Formosa 
and Bolivia made Kwasind their home 
from July 8-19. 

Some people might have thought that 
the program was very heavy, but these 
girls, 16 and 17 years of age, took it 
in their stride. They spent two hours 
each morning in serious and intelligent 
discussion of the problems and concerns 
of the C.G.I.T. movement, making sug¬ 
gestions and recommendations which 
may well influence the course of the 
movement for years to come. Another 
hour was used for Interest Groups dur¬ 
ing which the girls prepared themselves 
to make a more effective contribution 
to their own churches through study: 
in Children’s, Junior and Teen-age 
work; in the leadership of music and 
recreation; and in understanding gained 
through a group on world friendship 
and the outreach of the Church. Each 
afternoon, there was an hour and a half 
of Bible Study. 

Miss Maria Chela from Angola, Por¬ 
tuguese West Africa, Miss Margaret 
Dawson, a missionary from that coun¬ 
try, Miss Yung Chung Kim of Korea, 
Miss Carol Chiam of Formosa and Miss 
Luz Llanque from Bolivia attended the 
Camp. 

*Miss McCalla is Secretary for Girls’ Work 
and Young People’s Work under the Board 
of Christian Education in The United 
Church. 


18 


Canadian Camping 


Safe/if Provision# 

L. B. Smith 

Camping Branch, Dept, of Education , 
Ontario Government 

The Ontario Department of Educa¬ 
tion has now presented an outline of 
safety provisions to the operators of 
those camps which receive “the grant 
for non-profit camps” in this Province. 
It is the intention of this Department 
to make future grants to camps contin¬ 
gent upon such safety provisions as the 
following: 

1. The holding, by a mature, resident 
stafT member, of the Canadian Red 
Cross Society Standard Certificate in 
First Aid, or the St. John Ambulance 
Association Senior First Aid Certifi¬ 
cate, or other equivalent qualifica¬ 
tions; 

2. A health examination for each 
camper and staff member within two 
weeks prior to going to camp; 

3. A mid-day rest period of not less than 
one hour for campers; 

4. Provision for a hot bath or shower 
at least once a week when campers 
are in attendance for two weeks or 
more; 

5. The supervision of all waterfront and 
watercraft activities by a mature per¬ 
son holding the Bronze Medallion of 
the Royal Life Saving Society (or 
equivalent qualifications) and with 
experience in waterfront supervision; 

6. The provision of an adequate life 
guard system whenever campers are 
in the water; at least one life guard 
for every ten persons, free from all 
other duties during that period and 
giving his undivided attention to the 
safety of the campers; 

7. Appropriate safety rules for swim¬ 
ming, to apply to staff and visitors, as 
well as campers; 


a. No one to swim alone; 

b. A swim test to classify all campers 
before they are permitted a “free 
swim”; 

c. The restriction of non-swimmers to 
an approved, enclosed, shallow- 
water area; 

d. Swimming restricted to a marked 
swimming area except in certain 
authorized swimming contests, in 
which a boat, manned by two per¬ 
sons and carrying adequate life¬ 
saving equipment, should accom¬ 
pany each swimmer; 

e. The safe condition of all water¬ 
front equipment, especially water¬ 
craft, to be the personal responsi¬ 
bility of the camp operator; 

f. Precautions against overloading of 
watercraft; 

g. Visitors to enter watercraft only 
with special permission; 

h. Only tested swimmers to enter 
watercraft except that non-swim¬ 
mers may have watercraft instruc¬ 
tion in marked, shallow-water 
area; 

i. No person to be allowed alone in 
any watercraft in water beyond his 
depth before he has passed the 
camp test for that type of craft; 

j. Swimming and watercraft regula¬ 
tions for out-trips to be stated 
clearly and enforced strictly; 

k. Watercraft, other than life-saving 
patrol boats, not to be allowed in 
an area being used for swimming; 
campers not to enter or cling to a 
patrol boat except in an emer¬ 
gency. 

The Physical and Health Education 
Branch is responsible to the Department 
of Education for the administration of 
these regulations and grants to non¬ 
profit camps. 


Toronto , Canada. December1952 


19 


itonhle 8*nrpose 
Incinerator 

David Palter, B.A.Sc. 

One of camping’s most persistent 
problems with regard to health is the 
total disposal of garbage and waste 
material. It is believed that most sick¬ 
ness and disease is caused by fly-borne 
germs. Where waste materials and gar¬ 
bage accumulate, a formidable breeding 
place for flies and germs is created. It 
is therefore a wise precaution, for health 
reasons, to make disposal of such 
materials complete. There are only two 
methods of accomplishing this to the 
writer’s satisfaction — either burying, 
with earth covering over the pit or by 
burning. 

Burying, for a large camp is practi¬ 
cally an impossible task because of the 
size and number of pits required. Burn¬ 
ing has proven to be the most satisfac¬ 


tory method of garbage disposal for a 
larger camp. Burning garbage does not 
necessarily involve a waste of fuel, in 
fact, the fuel used and the waste 
material itself will provide sufficient 
heat for continuous hot showers and 
laundry. 

In planning an incinerator that will 
heat water and burn garbage simul¬ 
taneously, the main consideration is to 
make it large enough to accept all the 
garbage accumulated immediately after 
every meal. Kitchen pails must be 
emptied three times a day, and if this 
policy is adhered to, the greater sources 
of contamination will be eliminated. 

In order to service a camp with three 
hundred people, the incinerator should 
be at least six feet high, five feet wide, 
and eight feet long (outside dimensions) 
—made of cast cement and rocks, and 
lined completely with fire brick. The 
fire box occupies the upper two-thirds 
of the volume and is six feet long, three 



20 


Canadian Camping 





























feet wide, and three feet high (inside 
dimensions). The ash pit is two feet 
wide, two feet high and six feet long. 

The grates are made of 1" water pipe 
and there are two radiators built into 
the sides of the fire box, which are also 
made of 1" water pipe. Water is sup¬ 
plied continuously to the grates and the 
hot water is stored in a 500-gallon tank. 
This supplies the showers and laundry. 
Large cast iron clean-out doors are at 
the front and a forty-foot 12" steel stack 
at the back. A loading hole is left in 
the top of the incinerator covered by a 
piece of sheet steel. 

To operate the incinerator, a wood 
fire is first built in the fire box. When 
the incinerator is well heated, all gar¬ 
bage (wet and dry) as well as tin cans 
and bottles, can be dumped through the 
top loading door. Paper, cartons and 
any waste material add to the heat and 
the wet garbage dries quickly in the 
draught set up by the forty-foot chim¬ 
ney. Wet garbage, when dried, adds 


heat because of its grease content. An 
occasional stirring helps the process, 
and, after three hours, what is left of 
the cans and bottles can be shovelled 
out and safely sent to the dump because 
they are thoroughly sanitized. 

An added refinement that was found 
to be most useful is a forced draught 
oil burner installed with the burner 
blasting into the ash pit. This burner 
is controlled by an aquastat in the 500- 
gallon water tank. When additional hot 
water is required, the burner automati¬ 
cally goes on, and the intense heat melts 
glass bottles and practically vaporizes 
the tin cans. When the incinerator is 
used without the oil burner, about one 
45-gallon oil drum of ash is produced 
per day. With the oil burner, there is 
one quarter of this amount of ash, and 
no stirring of the garbage is required. 

The incinerator as described above 
has been in use during the summers of 
1951 and 1952, and has proven to be 
most satisfactory. 


Foodcraft SPECIALIZED FOODS can help you serve 
nourishing, flavourful meals with maximum efficiency and minimum 
cost. 

QUALITY - - the favourite of famous chefs. 

NUTRITION - used in major hospitals and other institutions 
throughout Canada. 

ECONOMY - simple preparation, minimum of kitchen staff; 
savings up to 18 % reported. 


FOODCRAFT GUARANTEED PRODUCTS 
for industrial and institutional use exclusively 


Cream Pudding Mix 
Pie Fillings 
Meringue Powder 
Jelly Powder 
Beverage Syrups 


Soup Bases 
Gravy Base 
Soup Vegetables 
Salad Dressing 
Cake Mixes 


Jam and Marmalade 
Sundae Toppings 
Table Syrup 
Fruit Crystals 
Flavours 


SEND FOR INFORMATION AND SAMPLES 


Branches Across Canada 

Foodcraft Laboratories Limited 

60 DUCHESS STREET 220 MILTON STREET 

TORONTO 2, ONT. MONTREAL, P.Q 


Toronto, Canada, December, 1952 


21 



We Tried This- 

Artificial Respiration “En Masse 33 

A group of seniors, practising Arti¬ 
ficial Respiration for the Bronze Medal¬ 
lion, excited the curiosity of some 
younger campers. A number of ques¬ 
tions came to them all at once. “Why 
do they do that? What is it for? Is it 
easy? Can we try?” 

By chance there arose an idea which 
“we tried”, and which proved to be one 
of our most absorbing and successful 
camp programs. 

The camp was divided into sections 
according to age. There were about 
twenty girls in each section. On a 
rainy afternoon each group was assigned 
to some cosy corner in camp and there 
they heard from a counselor what Arti¬ 
ficial Respiration is; how it began and 
the part that it plays in our lives today. 
The bright red and black costume badge 
was passed around. The interest was 
keen. 

At these fireside groups, junior and 
senior award classes began at Glen 
Bernard. The campers were so in¬ 
terested that an evening program was 
devoted to practising, as well as morn¬ 
ing and afternoon groups. The Schafer 
and the Holger Nielsen methods were 
taught to all the groups. 

Over sixty awards were granted by 
the Royal Life Saving Society to the 
campers. Each camper possessed a 
sense of accomplishment as well as 
knowing that a great deal of fun and 
enjoyment had gone into her work. 

It is a fine feeling to know that a 
group of girls have been trained to some 
day save a life—who knows? 

JOAN COLBERT, Director 
Waterfront and Senior 
Camp Program, 

Glen Bernard Camp 


1952 

ORIENTEERING 

Can you find your way in the bush 
without a compass? or even with one? 
Do you know the way to the nearest 
highway, railroad, or even back to camp 
when you have left the recognised 
paths? Can you follow a simple map? 
Do you get away often enough from 
your immediate camp site and explore 
the woods around it, at the same time 
getting the thrill of seeing new birds, 
animals, plants and trees and of coming 
back to camp after having had a really 
exciting time? Do you take the fullest 
advantage of the beautiful country 
which surrounds your camp and enjoy 
to the full God’s Open Air? 

These are questions which should 
always be asked at the beginning of the 
season, for aren’t we in danger of con¬ 
centrating too much on the activities on 
the camp grounds and of losing the 
original idea of camping? As an answer 
to these questions we tried “Orienteer¬ 
ing” and it proved to be a spring-board 
for renewed interest in ranging, wood¬ 
craft, etc. Orienteering is a game which 
started a few years ago in Sweden and 
has spread to this continent. Basically, 
it is just a map and compass game and 
can be played on a large or small scale 
and with individual or group contests. 
Whilst we had only a few contests, we 
used Orienteering as a means to an end 
rather than the end itself. 

Compass work is often considered 
dull, but when each camper participates 
by learning the length of an average 
stride, checking the directions of other 
campers and laying trails for other 
groups to follow, it becomes exciting. 
Each day. at the beginning of the 
season, we took small groups away from 
camp and worked towards an objective 
by means of map and compass. We 
“bush-whacked” our way. marked trails 


22 


Canadian Camping 


and cleared them. Often we took food 
lor a cook-out, which gave us an oppor¬ 
tunity to learn to build better fires and 
do more camp cooking. 

An exciting contest was held to re¬ 
discover Lost Lake; two groups started 
from widely separated points and met 
at the end of their different routes. At 
the lake we found a derelict camp site, 
the re-building of which became a 
major project for the rest of the season. 
This camp site is near the Park Musuem 
and its re-building has opened up fur¬ 
ther nature trail-;. 

We can learn to swim, to canoe and 
to play tennis wherever there are facili¬ 
ties . . . but at camp we get the glorious 


opportunity of getting out into the bush 
and of studying and enjoying Nature at 
her best, which is in her wild state. Do 
we use this opportunity enough? 

Why not try “Orienteering” next 
vear? 

J. MANNING, 
Camp Tanamakoon. 




You will find the Gestetner Duplicator a valuable aid for letters, notices, 
bulletins, camp events, etc., publicizing your camp activities for the 
summer season. 


Toronto, Canada, December, 1952 


23 







Hook llevieu's 

Mammals of North America , by Victor 
H. Cahalane; published by the Mac¬ 
millan Company of Canada; 682 pages; 
bibliography, 92 illustrations; price 
$9.00. 

This is a most outstanding new 
nature book and the author has done a 
remarkable job of taking the known 
scientific facts about many animals and 
transforming them into fascinating 
stories. You can watch the beaver 
build his famous dams, learn how the 
wolf outwits the porcupine and see the 
black bear and her cubs at play. The 
book is as exciting as an adventure tale, 
as full of curious and little-known facts 
as a “believe-it-or-not” column. Inti¬ 
mate biographies of the animals tell you 
what their homes are like, what they 
eat, who their enemies are, where they 
live and where they came from. 

Ask at the Canadian Camping Asso¬ 
ciation office, 52 Avenue Road. Toronto 
to see the review copy. It is an expen¬ 
sive book, but a valuable edition to any 
library. 

M.S.E. 


Patrol Leader’s Handbook , published by 
the Girl Scouts of the United States of 
America, 155 East 44th Street, New 
York 17, N.Y. Price 10 cents. 

This small booklet is a highly visual¬ 
ized presentation of the patrol system 
and how it works. It is printed in four 
colors on the same type of paper used 
by comic book publishers. The book 
itself is addressed to the girl and is 
another step along the road to publish¬ 
ing more books for the girl member¬ 
ship. The Patrol Leaders Handbook 
tells the patrol leader in words and 
pictures, what her job is and gives her 
guides to help in carrying it out. It 
describes the duties of the leader, how 
to hold patrol meetings, the Court of 


Honor and its work; also information 
about the jobs of other troop officers. 
Useful, of course, to Girl Guides and 
quite fascinating in its illustrations. 

A Book of the Seasons. An anthology, 
made and decorated by Eve Garnett. 
Published by the Oxford University 
Press, University Ave., Toronto 2. Price 
$2.50. 

This is a most delightful book of 
poetry of the Out-of-doors selected 
especially for children. It contains great 
poetry about each of the four seasons 
of the year,—indeed some of the best 
extracts from poets of the past and the 
present. Fortunate indeed is the child 
who can possess such a charming book, 
for not only does it contain some of the 
finest examples of lyrical poetry, but it 
is also a delight to the eye. The illustra¬ 
tions in color and the exquisite line 
drawings have a lightness and a grace 
which make this a book to be cherished 
by children of all ages — including 
adults. 

M.S.E. 


Camp Safety Digest. Published by the 
Centre for Safety Education Div. of 
General Education, New York Univer¬ 
sity, New York 3. Price: Single copies 
50 cents; more than ten, 45 cents. 

This Camp Safety Digest brings to¬ 
gether a valuable collection of articles 
by outstanding Camp leaders. Each 
article presents the writer’s ideas of how 
safety can be integrated into some phase 
of camping. Among the sixteen con- 
trbutors to the Digest are Marjorie 
Camp on “Organizing the Camp for 
Safety”; S. P. Messer on “Good Camp 
Housekeeping”; C. Davis on “Fire Pre¬ 
vention and Protection”; Catherine 
Hammett on “Safety in Camping 
Skills”; Ellsworth Jaeger on “Safety 
First in Nature”; C. R. Blackstock on 


24 


Canadian Camping 


NORTHERN ONTARIO'S FINEST RECREATIONAL AREA, FROM 
NORTH BAY TO MOOSONEE, IS SERVED BY 

ONTARIO NORTHLAND RAILWAY 

For information on desirable areas for Camps in new territory 
apply to; 

R. P. C. McLEOD, 

Traffic Manager, 

Ontario Northland Railway, 
North Bay, Ontario. 


Enrollments continue to INCREASE for 
PARENTS' MAGAZINE advertisers! 

More enrollments resulted from adver¬ 
tising in PARENTS' MAGAZINE in 
1951 than ever before! 

More camps advertise in PARENTS’ 

MAGAZINE than in any other national 
publication! 

More families with children (26% 
more!) came to PARENTS' MAGA¬ 
ZINE in 1951 for specific camp guid¬ 
ance than ever before! 

PARENTS' MAGAZINE, 52 Vanderbilt Ave. • New York 17 r N. Y. 

1,400,000 CIRCULATION where you want it—IN FAMILIES WITH CHILDREN! 



BOAT ACCESSORIES 

for every type of 
Water Craft 

A complete line of equipment for every marine need carried in 
our showrooms — 

SAILS - HARDWARE - ROPE - CANVAS - PAINTS - VARNISHES 

TOM TAYLOR LIMITED 

The Best in Quality and Service 

107 Front Street East EMpire 3-8761 Toronto, Ontario 


Toronto, Canada, December, 1952 


25 






“Canoe Trips”. These are just a few of 
the many practical articles contained in 
this inexpensive but valuable booklet. 
The publication is made possible 
through an annual grant from the Acci¬ 
dent Prevention Dept, of the Associa¬ 
tion of Casualty and Surety Companies. 

Leather Crafts, by Parkes and Judge; 
published by Longmans, Green and 
Company. Toronto; profusely illus¬ 
trated. 130 pages; price, $3.75. 

This is a handbook for teachers and 
students of leather crafts and is written 
by Jessie F. B. Parkes, supervisor of 
handicrafts, and S. B. Judge, F.R.S.A., 
supervisor of art (1927-41) Vancouver. 
B.C. It is. therefore, a valuable contri¬ 
bution from artist-craftsmen who have 
actually guided children and adults 
through the intricacies of the subject 
for many years. The authors, in pre¬ 
paring the material, have endeavoured 
to give valuable help to the following 
groups — first the art specialists in 
schools, colleges; secondly, the craft 
instructors in clubs and camps, and 
thirdly, those who lack either time or 
desire to plan projects or designs for 
themselves. 

There are many pages of artistic 
designs. The decorative motifs are 
based on familiar things such as the 
pine cone, the oak leaf and acorn, the 
maple leaf and the dogwood, which is 
the floral emblem of British Columbia. 
In addition to floral forms, there are 
motifs based on the ship, sea life and 
characters from the carvings of the 
Pacific Coast Indians. 

M.S.E. 


Safety & t'omfert Tips 
for the \Vinnismea 

Welland S. Gemmell 
Minister, Lands and Forests 

Take a good compass and map, but 
first learn how to use them. Boil all 
water for drinking. Always build camp¬ 
fires on rock, sand or cleared earth; 
never on dry grass, among leaves or 
humus. Keep your fire away from old 
logs, stumps and roots. 

Spread your blankets out in the after¬ 
noon sun. When they are warm and 
dry, roll them up tightly. They will 
then retain the warmth and give greater 
comfort at night. Remember that as 
much cold comes up from the ground 
as from the air. Use a ground sheet and 
keep plenty of other protection beneath 
you. 

Carry an extra pair of glasses if you 
wear them. It’s a good idea to wear a 
good pair of yellow or green anti-glare 
glasses in the bush. They will protect 
the eyes from low-hanging branches as 
well as from the sun in open spaces. 

Wrap bacon in heavy paper before 
starting out and keep it wrapped in the 
same paper. To keep bacon from 
mould, hang it in the smoke to leeward 
of the campfire occasionally. 

If your canoe or boat upsets, remem¬ 
ber that you can’t swim far in waters 
cooled by Fall weather. Unless you are 
an experienced swimmer and KNOW 
you can reach shore, stick to the boat. 
A canoe or boat, unless old and water¬ 
logged, will support several persons if 
they merely rest on it and keep low in 
the water. It can be manoeuvered to 
shore then, slowly, perhaps, but surely. 


26 


Canadian Camping 


The Burning of Stubble and Other 
Crop Residues and fallen leaves, which 
should be allowed to return to the soil, 
destroys material that otherwise helps to 
create fertile, erosion-resisting humus on 
the land. Too, the capacity of the land 
to absorb and retain moisture is reduced 
and run-off is greater. 

The burning-off of forests and of 
wooded slopes, lack of contouring, ter¬ 
racing and other watershed protective 
measures, including deforestation by un¬ 
wise logging practices, also contribute 
to increased run-off and lower the capa¬ 
bility of the land to serve as a natural 
reservoir. When such conditions be¬ 
come widespread in any area, devastat¬ 
ing floods recur again and again. When 
the land is dry, high winds take off 
layer after layer of the remaining top¬ 
soil. Soon the land becomes unfertile 
and is abandoned. 

—From Bulletins of Lands and Forests 


NEW GAMES FOR 
'TWEEN-AGERS 

by Allan A. Macfarlan 

158 novel, exciting activities for 
indoor and outdoor fun. A fresh 
collection of new and unusual games 
for pre-teen and teen-age boys and 
girls. Written for parents and youth 
leaders alike, most of these 158 games 
can be played by mixed groups or by 
boys and girls separately. Thirty of 
these games are original with Mr. 
Macfarlan, and have never been pub¬ 
lished before. All have been tested 
and re-tested by the world's greatest 
game experts — children themselves. 
The emphasis is on games requiring 
little or no equipment; and where it 
is required, equipment can be con¬ 
structed from the illustrated instruc¬ 
tions for only a few cents as a 
handicraft activity. 

Price $3.75 

Order from your local bookstore, or 

G. R. WELCH COMPANY 

LIMITED 

1149 King St. W. Toronto, Ont. 

Telephone: KEnwood 9461 



ELASTOPLAST BANDAGES 
FOR ALL MINOR INJURIES 


Toronto 3 Canada , December , 1952 

































Do You Know the Secret of Successful Camping? 

The secret lies in always keeping up to 
date with the latest ideas in 
organized camping. 


Alert camp directors and their staffs read about tried and 
proved ideas in the monthly CAMPING MAGAZINE and the 
annual REFERENCE AND BUYING GUIDE issues. They 
know the danger of static thinking and obsolete ideas. You, too, 
will find these publications a never-ending source of new, usable 
ideas. Membership in American Camping Association 
includes your subscription to these publications and many more 
valuable benefits, costs $3.00 to $25.00 per year, depending on 
classification. Write for full information on membership. Or, 
for subscription alone, send $5.50 for a 2 year subscription. 
($3.25 per year). 


In the Magazine . . . 

Eight issues every year 
— as much usable 
material as in an 800- 
page book! 


In the Reference Issue 

. . . More than 160 
pages of charts, tables 
diagrams; answers t o 
hundreds of questions. 


CAMPING MAGAZINE 

705 Park Avenue Plainfield, N.J. 


28 


Canadian Camping 



In Lighter Vein 


Once there was a camper 
Who collected, in the woods 
Growing things. She told the cook: 
“They’re edible as foods”. 

Mushrooms shaggy-maned and smooth, 
Mushrooms white and brown; 
Morells from under pine trees, 

Fungus from the ground. 


Little Chris (ending prayer) : And 
please, Lord, put the vitamins in pie 
instead of in cod-liver oil. 


“How do I know they’re edible?” 

“I’ve bought myself a book. 

The pictures all are colored; 

You can see how nice they look” 


First Little Boy: “Why can we eat 
more pancakes than waffles?” 

Second Little Boy: “Because pan¬ 
cakes slip over and make room, but 
waffles have non-skid tread and won’t 
budge.” 


“I’ll fry them for you, said the cook, 
But if in heaven you wake; 

You’ll know for sure, I reckon 

That you made a grave mistake!” 

—M.S.E. 



the 

famous 

A C K R O Y D 
DINGHIES 

are built exclusively 
by the builders of 

TAYLOR 

CRAFT 

Canada's Leading 
CRUISERS 
and 

SAILBOATS 

• 


J. J. TAYLOR & SONS LIMITED 

on the Western Channel - TORONTO 


Toronto , Canada , December , 1952 


29 









Our Friends 
the Advertisers 


Camping Magazine . 28 

T. Eaton Co. Ltd. 3 

Foodcraft Laboratories Ltd. 21 

Gestetner (Canada) Ltd. 23 

Gibbons Quickset 

Desserts .Inside Cover 

S. Gumpert Co. of Can. Ltd. 4 

Lewiscraft Supplies Ltd. 4 

Ontario Department 

Lands and Forests. 4 

Ontario Northland Railway . 25 

Parents Magazine. 25 

Redbook Magazine. 30 

Safety Supply Co. 27 

R. Simpson Co. Ltd.Back Cover 

J. J. Taylor & Sons Ltd. 29 

Tom Taylor Ltd. 25 

Vermont Accident Insurance Co. 31 

G. R. Welch Co. Ltd. 27 


CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING 


CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING 
RATES: 

Five cents a word, minimum two 
dollars. All classified advertising pay¬ 
able in advance. Address all corres¬ 
pondence to “Canadian Camping”, 
170 Bloor Street West, Toronto, 
Ontario. 


Craft Counselor: “Can you tell me 
any of the uses for cow hide?” 

Bright one: “Sure! It holds the cow 
together.” 

—★— 

The baby sitter was trying to make 
time pass pleasantly for Junior by ask¬ 
ing about the animals in his picture 
book. They got to the picture of zebras. 
“What do zebras have that no other 
animals have?” 

Junior: “Little zebras”. 

“If you don't get everything you 
want , think of the things you don't get 
that you don't want." 


PRINTING 

... AT ITS BEST 

* Fast and Efficient Service 
on Your Camp Needs ! 

Qxant Printing 

Printers of "Canadian Camping" 

86 Harbord Street Toronto, Ont. 

Midway 41 58 


TELL YOUR CAMP'S STORY TO . . . 

REDBOOK’S CAMP CONSCIOUS FAMILIES IN 1953 

REDBOOK'S 51st year of publication—School and Camp Department's 35th year 
of service. 

REDBOOK'S four million readers, in nearly two million American and Canadian 
families, are not only camp minded but also have the money to carry out their 
plans for their children. 

And REDBOOK'S Educational Advisory Service is recognized as serving a large 
number of parents each year and for its reputation for sound, reliable advice in 
bringing together camp directors and camp parents. 

Your camp advertising in REDBOOK will put you in contact with not just camp 
prospects but Excellent Camp Prospects. 

REDBOOK MAGAZINE 

Ethel F. Bebb. Director 230 Park Avenue 

School and Camp Department New York 17, N.Y. 


30 


Canadian Camping 























HAVE THE BEST 

CAMPERS' INSURANCE 

MEDICAL REIMBURSEMENT 
ACCIDENTAL DEATH 
TUITION REFUND 
EPIDEMIC 
POLIO 

We have paid thousands of dollars in 
claims for camps which are members 
of the Canadian Camping Association. 

Why not avail yourself of this excel¬ 
lent protection and thereby establish 
another medium of public relations 
with the parents? 

BEST IN COVERAGE - BEST IN SERVICE 

THE SIGN OF 4 [I 41 J 

GOOD service * ACCIDENT S f INSURANCE- 

COI^ANY 

RUTLAND, VT. 

M*K | r l<hf> IIHjO 

VERMONT ACCIDENT INSURANCE CO. 

RUTLAND, VERMONT, U.S.A. 






CONSULTANTS 

DESIGNERS 

SUPPLIERS 


Everything for CAMPS, Lodges, Motels, 
Motor Courts and Summer Resorts. 


VANCOUVER 

EDMONTON 

CALGARY 

REGINA 


Ontario orders ask for: Mr. G. E. 
Winship, Trinity 9111, Special Contract 
Division, Simpson's, - Toronto. 


WINNIPEG 

LONDON 

MONTREAL 

HALIFAX 


Others please direct communications 
specifically to your nearest branch 
of the Special Contract Division. 





































