
APRIL 1970 AVRIL 













































Manufacturers 

of 

the famous 
Quickset 
Quality 
Food Products 
for Camps 
anywhere 
in Canada 
Jelly Powders 
Pudding Powders 
Pie Fillings 
Instant Puddings 
Jiffy Whip 
Cake Mixes 
Cheese Cake Mix 
Table Syrup 
Fruit Beverages 
Hot Chocolate 
Flavorings 
Soup Bases 
Marmalades 
Jams 

Fruit Pie Fillings 
Camp-Rite 


'Tripping at Your Camp?' 

USE 

camp- me 


Economical, ready-to-go food units 
packed in 4 man water - proof 
packages. Just add water, cook, 
and your meal is ready. 

You will be agreeably surprised at 
the prices! 

Ask the ‘'Gibbons Man” for more 
information on Camp-Rite or write 
to us direct. 


I 


GIBBONS FOODS LIMITED 


49 ADVANCE ROAD 


TELEPHONE 239-1421 


TORONTO 18, CANADA 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Vol. 22 April, 1970, avril No. 3 

Editorial Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau 4 

News from the Provinces 
Nouvelles des provinces 
Unique Outdoor Education 
Spacemen Are We! 

'^'Accreditation Des Camps, Tremplin Vers ^Excellence” 

Books for Camp 

Land of the Algonquin (poem) Lela Shepley 

Relationships of Camping to Education Sister Mary Nolasco Mulcahy 

When Stealing Occurs at Camp Elsie Palter 

Le Vol au Camp Elsie Palter 

Laurence Taylor in Practice Mary Leggatt 

Cover Photograph Courtesy A. A. Bacon; Photo Couverture: Grace a A. A. Bacon 


William J. Babcock 
Kirk A. W. Wipper 
Lionel Perras 


5 

5 

7 

9 

10 

12 

13 

14 
16 
17 
21 


CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION Box 2773, Station “D”, Ottawa, Ont. 

Honorary President — Miss Mary S. Edgar — Presidente honoraire 

President Elect — John Latimer, 160 Eglinton Ave. E., Suite 1 02A, Toronto, Ont — President 
elect 

Executive Secretary — Barry Bryant, Box 2773, Station “D”, Ottawa, Ont. — Secretaire 
executif 

1st Vice-President — Mrs. Betty Campbell, 50 Dutch Village Rd., Halifax — ler vice- 
president 

2nd Vice-President — Tom Creighton, c/o Box 1 165, Halifax, N.S. — 2e vice-president 
3rd Vice-President — Bob Lazanik — 3e vice-president 

Treasurer — Robert Gregory, c/o Bank of Montreal, Fairview, Halifax, N.S. — Tresorier 
Secretary — Mrs. Gregory Robert, c/o 5770 Tower Terrace, Halifax, N.S. — Secretaire 
Publisher — Broydon Printers Ltd., 164 Sherbrooke St., Peterborough, Ont. — Editeur 
Editor — Ann Prewitt, P.O. Box 1107, Huntsville, Ontario — Redacteur en chef 
Editorial Committee — Don Groff, Chairman, Joyce Bertram, — Comite de redaction 
Eanswythe Flynn, Maragret Govan, Jean Darrach, Jocelyn Palm, John Latimer, 
Bruno Morawetz, Jack Pearse, Kirk Wipper, Mary L. Northway, Helen Stewart. 
Provincial Reps. — Grant McKeen (B.C.), Colin Hatcher (Alta.), Eileen Mayotte (Sask.), John 
Latimer (Ont.), Lynn Ryan (Man.), Huqette Dagenais (Que.), Al Browninq (Nfd.), 
Dick Loiselle (N.S.). 

PAST PRESIDENTS - ANCIENS PRESIDENTS 

*Taylor Statten, Toronto; *Dais L. Gass, Montreal; Anne I. Vail, Montreal; W. E. (Ted) Yard, 
Toronto; Irwin Haladner, Toronto; F. M. VanWagner, Montreal; Kenneth H. Murray, Mon¬ 
treal; Don Smith, Edmonton; Mrs. May Brown, Vancouver,* Douglas McEwen, Winnipeg. 

PROVINCIAL OFFICES - BUREAUX PROVINCIAUX 

B.C. Camping Association— 61 6 E. Cordova St., Vancouver 4, B.C. 

Alberta Camping Association— 2402 27th St. S.W., Calgary 4, Alberta. 

Northern Alberta Branch— 10032 - 103rd St., Edmonton 15, Alberta. 

Saskatchewan Camping Association — P.O. Box 823, Regina, Saskatchewan. 

Manitoba Camping Association— 444 River Avenue, Winnipeg 13, Manitoba. 

Eastern Ontario Camping Conference— 2131 Neepawa Avenue, Ottawa 13, Ontario. 
Ontario Camping Association— 501 Yonge Street, Suite 13, Toronto 200, Ontario. 

Quebec Camping Association— 2233 Belgrave Ave., Montreal 261, Quebec. 

L'association des camps de Quebec — 952 Cherrier Ave., Montreal, Quebec. 

Nova Scotia Camping Association —P.O. Box 1622, Halifax, N.S. 

Newfoundland & Labrador Camping Association —P.O. Box 41 88, St. John's, Newfoundland 



EDITORIAL 




PRIME MINISTER, PIERRE ELLIOTT TRUDEAU 



PRIME MINISTER PREMIER MINISTIIC 


Canoeing down a fast moving 
stream, the smell of a smoking campfire 
the fresh air of early morning in the 
woods. These arc some of the happy and 
nourishing experiences that many of us 
have shared. 

Nature provides us with an 
opportunity for enjoyment, solitude and 
sc 1f-renewal. How fortunate we are to 
live in a country so abundantly blessed 
with unspoiled streams, forests and 
mountains! 

To the readers of CANADIAN 
CAMPING, I am pleased to send my greet¬ 
ings and best wishes. 



Pierre Elliott Trudeau 



PRIME MINISTER PRCMIER MINISTRC 


Un canoU qui bondit au milieu 
des rapidcs, 1'odour inoubliable d'un 
feu de bois et la griserie d'un r6veil 
matinal au crcux d'une clairi&rc: cc 
sont lil des moments privilSgids que 
plusieurs d'entre nous ont vficus. 

La nature apporte h ceux qui 
l'aiment ct la frequentent des joics 
innombrablcs, ct 1'occasion, dans le 
silence et la sfirfinitS, de sc rcnouvcler 
soi-memc. Quelle chance de vivre dans 
un pays oil abondent autant de rividres, 
de forOts et do merveilleuscs montagnes! 

Aux lccteurs de CANADIAN 
CAMPING, je prdsente mes plus cordiales 
salutations. 



Pierre Elliott Trudeau 


Ottawa, 
1 9 7 0 . 


0 t t 


w a, 





NEWS FROM THE PROVINCES 


BRITISH COLUMBIA 

Camp visitation toward accreditation progress¬ 
ing slowly with ten camps visited to date. 

An exhibit was placed in the Pacific Outdoor and 
Sports Show last May by the Association. It was co¬ 
ordinated by Mrs. Pat Russell and staffed by var¬ 
ious members of the Association. The purpose be¬ 
ing to interest the general public in organized 
camping. 

Last May a "Nature Discovery Weekend" was 
sponsored by the B.C. Camping Association at 
which time the discovery approach to nature lore 
was the theme. It gave camps that have had trouble 
in getting nature programs under way a new ap¬ 
proach to this program area. 

The School Camping has been started in many 
areas in B.C. West Vancouver School Board has 
launched a full time "Science Camp" for Grade 7 
Students using the Salvation Army Camp Sunrise 
at Laugadle. This has been co-ordinated by Ed. 
Jackson of West Vancouver School Board. Miss 
Janna Taylor was the onsite program director. 

Vancouver School Board in co-operation with 
the Board of Parks and Public Rrecreation have 
launched a 31 week experimental school program. 
The grade 7 children from Vancouver Schools use 
Camp Capilano in North Vancouver. The program 
is directed by Jack F. Way, now the full time di¬ 
rector of the camp. Volunteer counsellors and cook¬ 
ing staff from grade 12 classes are working with 
the program. 

North Vancouver School Board have held a 
number of experimental "Outdoor Schools", using 
the United Church Camp Fircom on Gambier Is¬ 
land. This program has been co-ordinated by Don 
Robertson of the North Vancouver School Board. 

An adhoc committee now formally called the 
B.C. Camping Outdoors Association was organized 
by Mrs. Dick Ramsay. This committee which is not 
sponsored by any particular organization is made 
up of people concerned about camping. Organiza- 
itons included are: University of British Columbia, 
Simon Fraser University, B.C. Teachers Federation, 
B.C. Camping Association, B.C. Wildlife Federa¬ 
tion, Canadian Wildlife Service, West Vancouver 
School Board, Canadian Youth Hostels, University 
of Victoria, Community Programs Branch, North 
Vancouver School Board, Boy Scouts, Vancouver 
School Board, Vancouver Parks Board and Y.M.C.A. 
The Committee has been instrumental in preparing 
resource lists and materials on Outdoor Education 
and has acted as a co-ordinating committee of 


camping activities and other concerns in the field 
of Outdoor Education. 

Mr. Grant McKeen, formerly of Edmonton, Al¬ 
berta, is now established in Vancouver with Youth 
Resources Inc., and is operating his own camp in 
the Okanagan for emotionally disturbed boys. 

The plans for 1970 include the first of what 
will be an annual conference for Camp Directors 
and Administratiors which is slated for April 10th 
and 11th in Vancouver. 

MANITOBA 

MCA Proposals to Government 

In January MCA presented a brief to the Gov¬ 
ernment of Manitoba. In the brief MCA stated its 
readiness to employ 300 university students and 
to provide a camping experience for over 3,000 
"core area" children. This brief was submitted in 
response to a request from the government to pro¬ 
pose a plan for meaningful summer employment 
for students, and a plan whereby more "core area" 
children could gain a camping experience. To date 
there has been no response to our brief. On the 
contrary, indications are that our government is 
planning its own program at almost twice the cost 
to the Manitoba tax payers as it would cost to 
operate a program in co-operation with existing 
camps. Recently MCA has submitted a second brief 
asking the premier to set up a substantial Camper- 
ship Fund to provide opportunity for "core area" 
children to attend camps. 

Day Camp Standards 

We are presently working on Desireable Prac¬ 
tices and Standards for Day Camps in this province. 
Day Camps will be visited and give opportunity 
for accreditation this summer. 

Kirk Wiper to MCA Conference 

MCA has just completed a very successful an¬ 
nual conference with Kirk Wiper as key resource 
person. Kirk created "Camp Bison" giving camp 
directors and senior staff people many practical ad¬ 
ministrative and program ideas. Hopefully no-one 
was "Buffaloed". 

Canoe School Comes West 

The services of Mr. Claude Cousineau, Mr. Kirk 
A. W. Wiper and Mr. Gerry Fassett have been se¬ 
cured to conduct a Canoeing Instructor School at 
YMCA Camp Stevens, June 2-9, 1970. The course 
will be sponsored by the Canadian Camping As¬ 
sociation, University of Ottawa, Fitness and Am- 


5 



ateur Sport Branch, Department of National Health 
and Welfare. Applications from persons 17 and 
over with a basic understanding of canoeing are 
invited for the course. 


applications from Camp Directors across the coun¬ 
try. Requests for information should be forwarded 
to - Mr. Stan Wild, P.O. Box 173, Station "S", 
Toronto 20, Ontario. 


Brigade '70 

The Manitoba Centennial Corporation has 
planned two brigades, one originating in Kenora, 
Ontario, the other in Grand Forks, North Dakota; 
both will terminate in Winnipeg on July 14. This 
is an open event for those who have their own 
canoe and tripping equipment. Hundreds of ca¬ 
noeists are expected to participate, reliving part 
of the history of our province. 


ONTARIO 

Members of O.A.C. are now in the process 
of evaluating their recent Directors' Conference, 
and plans have already been started for the 1971 
Conference at the Skyline Hotel on March 4, 5, 6th. 

The most impressive Ontario function was the 
Counsellors' Conference which was held at York 
University on May 9th. 1,200 delegates attended 
the day long blitz covering practically every topic 
of camp life. 

Several Training Sessions will be held for Coun¬ 
sellors and Instructors during the latter part of 
June. Specifically mere will be courses in Water 
Skiing, Canoeing and Tripping and a combined 
course sponsored jointly by the Royal Life Saving 
Society and The Ontario Red Cross. 

Stanley Burke, who is known across the country 
as the ex-voice of the National News was the 
guest speaker at the O.C.A. Annual Meeting April 
29th. Mr. Burke and members of Pollution Probe 
introduced an exciting programme which will brjng 
Ontario Camps into the fight against pollution. 

The Society of Camp Direrctors met again in 
April, at which time papers were presented by 
Mr. Don Groff on Intercultural Camping and Dr. 
Bruno Morawetz on Drugs. The Society welcomes 






‘ * A As/x/ ^ A / A A i 


POOL MAN Limited 

Water Fun & Safety Items 
Playground Equipment 
Transhailers 

Water Pumps and Softeners 
Write for Catalogue 

11 Oakland Ave. 


Weston, Ont. 


244-5513 * 

I 


Speaking of Stan Wild, after an absence of 
several months, he has returned to the O.C.A. 
office as Executive Secretary. 

Ron Johnstone who is National Chairman of 
Standards has now found a co-chairman, in the 
person of Al Goodman, to assist in the O.C.A. pro¬ 
gramme. The two of them will be working to¬ 
gether in implementing a new set of Mandatory 
Standards — Over 20 items are mandatory for a 
Camp to be an accredited member of O.A.C. The 
year 1970 therefore will be a big year in our 
Standards Programme. 


Sorry the names were mixed on 
the cover of the last issue! — Ed. 



SASKATCHEWAN'S 

PRES. EILEEN MAYOTTE 
NEWFOUNDLAND'S 
PRES. ERIC RUSSELL 



NOVA SCOTIA'S 
MRS. CAMPBELL 
and TOM CREIGHTON 




I 


TENTS, RUSKSACKS, FLAGS 
LIFEJACKETS, CUSHIONS 






►WWW 




Write for Free Brochure and Catalogue ** 

JOHN LECKIE LIMITED 

30 UPJOHN ROAD 

DON MILLS, ONTARIO 445-3400 




6 


UNIQUE OUTDOOR EDUCATION 

by William J. Babcock, Camp Richildaca 



f V 

1 

1 1 u h 

W Hi 


■ 

Ilf L S 

Wm 'W* Jf 3 

1 n r 'M' 


lK|s | J 

'i jWr l 


— :- 

III 1 u 

EV 


When selecting facilities which may be used 
for an Outdoor Education program I look for acti¬ 
vity areas, dining facilities, sleeping quarters, and 
administrative facilities. All schools have their own 
administrative personnel and facilities so that this 
aspect becomes a secondary consideration. I think 
it is probably safe to say that all camps can offer 
the other requirements. I have made a practice of 
visiting several camps during the past two summers 
and each of them would have been acceptable for 
an unique school Outdoor Education program. 

At our Camp Richildaca we have operated the 
following variety of programs in the past dozen 
years. 

—Canoe trips 

—Training programs in canoe skills 
—Water safety programs 
—Resident Art camp 
—Biology and Natural Science 
-Work-study with 4-year technical students 
—Geography regional study 


—Leadership Training with vocational students 
—La Maison Francaise — a resident French lan¬ 
guage camp 

Junior High School students with camping and 
geography 

—Senior Elementary students in an interdisci¬ 
plinary day experience 
—Grade 2-5 for day long experiences 
—Preschoolers for V 2 day experiences 

Two schools have used our facilities for train¬ 
ing their students in the skills of swimming, can¬ 
oeing, campcraft, water safety, etc. prior to canoe 
trips. In fact they used the test results of their 
training as one criterion for selecting the trippers. 
We have also assisted several schools in outfitting 
for canoe trips. Richmond Hill High School has de¬ 
veloped an 'Outfitters Club' to provide information, 
maps, routes, and tips to groups planning canoe 
trips. This same school has been sending out trips 
since 1958, initially through our camp, but lately 

Continued on page IS 


7 






CHESTNUT CANOE CO. LTD. 

FREDERICTON, N.B. 

OVER 70 YEARS OF SERVICE TO CANADIAN CAMPERS 


"GO WITH A CHESTNUT" 


WE HAVE A CANOE FOR EVERY PURPOSE 

Over 45 Models to choose from. 


Write to the Chestnut Canoe Co. for Free Literature 


and 


Prices 


8 











SPACEMEN ARE WE! 


Excerpts from a paper presented to The Society of Camp Directors by 



Very recently we all witnessed with great ad¬ 
miration and aprehension the splashdown of Apol¬ 
lo XIII, another remarkable feat in the space age. 
Day be day we become more aware of the growing 
concrn over the renewed predictions regarding 
serious threats to man's survival which stem from 
widespread environmental abuses and misuses. At 
the same time there are more and more warnings 
being issued regarding the plight of our large urban 
areas. The Globe and Mail on its front page carried 
a statement by Milton Eisenhower outlining the 
probabilities of present trends in the large urban 
concentrations of people. Already the situation has 
reached crisis proportions in many of the larger 
cities. In our own federal provincial discussions 
there was a definite interest in placing urban prob¬ 
lems high on the agenda priorities. 

The above three observations can each be iden¬ 
tified in space terms. The first, obviously, repre¬ 
sents another step in the spectacular space adven¬ 
ture. The second may be classified as middle space 
or the natural environment which sustains man 
both physically and spiritually. The third which is 
undoubtedly the greatest frontier of all is the inner 
space — that which lies within each of us. 

It is not surprising that outer space assumes its 
dramatic and prior attention because it represents 
what most people feel is the lost jungle city or 
the Northwest Passage of our time. After all, this 
planet's wilderness has been explored and chart¬ 
ed; the primitive tribes have been studied; the 
ancient civilizations have been uncovered; and 
even the undersea regions have been investigated. 
In the enthusiasm for probing into that infinite 


unknown, the outer space, there is a temptation 
to overlook the immediate, urgent problems related 
to the middle and inner spaces. Their proximity 
has perhaps rendered them less adventurous than 
what seems to be awarded to outer space projects. 
Nontheless the middle and inner spaces are the 
immediate and real concerns of today and tomor¬ 
row and in these the children's camping movement 
has a front line challenge, opportunity and respon¬ 
sibility. 

In reference to the middle space two basic 
facts should be identified and understood. One is 
the remarkable and persistent population increase 
especially in areas which can least sustain them. 
The other lies in the explosive advance of techno¬ 
logical skills and innovations which provide many 
advantages but at the same time inflict increasing 
harm on the environment in a shorter period of 
time than ever before. 

The Conservation Council of Ontario, in which 
our O.C.A. participates, recently reported that 
there were between 500 and 600 chemical poi¬ 
sons being applied in the United States. In this 
country, roughly 70 million pounds of those poi¬ 
sons are used each year. This is impressive when it 
is recognized that there is so little experience or 
information regarding the long-range effects of 
those chemicals. The situation approaches crisis pro¬ 
portion when research reveals that the short-range 
effects are also seriously damaging. The recent 
recall of D.D.T. is an example of a major admitted 
error. 

Continued on page 2U 


9 


L'ACCREDITATION DES CAMPS, 
TREMPLIN VERS L'EXCELLENCE 


par Lionel Perras, President de L.A.C.Q. - C.A. 


1. DEFINITION DE ^ACCREDITATION. 

Ce terme est un americanisme. En prenant ce 
terme dans le sens le plus communement ad- 
mis, I'accreditation, c'est: LA RECONNAISS¬ 
ANCE OFFICIELLE, par un organisme competenfi 
et reconnu, du serieux des objectifs que s'est 
fixes une institution et de la valeur des mo- 
yens qu'elle utilise pour atteindre ces ob¬ 
jectifs. 

Comme cette definition I'indique, c'est er 
fonction d'objectifs precis a atteindre et des 
moyens utilises pour le faire qu'un camp es* 
accredite. 

2. POURQUOI PARLER D'ACCREDITATION? 

Ce fut Tune des premieres preoccupations des 
fondateurs de I'ACQ en 1958. Ce desir des 
directeurs de camps depuis le debut n'est pas 
equivoque; il suffit de relire les proces-verbaux 
des assemblees. Depuis 1958, des directeurs 
se sont efforces d'etablir des normes avec les- 
quelles les camps seraient accredites. 

II faut louer le travail laborieux et ardu ac¬ 
compli dans le passe par les dirigeants de 
I'ACQ et a I'american Camping Association. 
On le savait imparfait; les visiteurs ont pu le 
constater. 

Le temps semble etre arrive ou les camps doi- 
vent etre reconnus officiellement comme des 
milieux d'education ou regne la QUALITE. Les 
parents et les corps intermediaires ou le gouv- 
erment risquent de porter des judgements qui 
ne sont pas a I'honneur des camps ni de I'As- 
sociation des Camps. 

L'Association fournit aux camps avec le texte 
des normes actuelles dernierement traduites de 
la QCA, un instrument percieux mais tres exige- 
ants; il appartient maintenant aux directeurs 
et directrices de camps d'utiliser cet instrument. 
Ce sont les camps qui feront leur propre ac¬ 
creditation, le visiteur va la constater. 


3. LES CARACTERISTIQUES DE L'ACCREDITATION 

Les exigences de ('accreditation resident dans 
les caracteristiques suivantes que nous pou- 
vons degager d'une observation des camps 
visites au cours de I'ete 1966 et du texte des 
Normes: 

1— Un personnel dont la formation respecte 
les normes de qualifications et d'age. Un 
personnel dont les membres sont assez nom- 
breux pour constituer une equipe stable. 
Cette caracteristique aura aussi I'avantage de 
creer chez les moniteurs, un fort stimulant 
qui les incitera a se preparer davantage. 

2— Une administration efficace et creatrice, ou 
le directeur possede la pleine responsabilite 
sur la marche generale du camp. 

3— Un programme d'activites et des previsions 
a longs termes qui visent a donner une ma- 
turite au camp. 

4— Des locaux dont les plans et I'equipement 
servent bien I'education a donner. 

5— Un souci d'identite propre, un sentiment de 
prestige, difficiles a atteindre si on n'oeuvre 
pas dans des locaux fonctionnels, appropries 
et convenables qui rencontrent les exigences 
des normes d'hygiene et de securite. 

6— En theorie et en pratique, offrir un pro¬ 
gramme d'activites dont les normes tant sur 
le plan physiologique que psychologique 
sont respectees. 

7— Des conditions d'emploi qui assurent le re- 
crutement et la stabilite d'un personnel. Ceci 
supposent des salaires et retributions con- 
formes aux usages des camps. 

8— Des statuts, approuves par le Conseil d'Ad- 
ministration du camp, qui definissent I'or- 
ganigramme du camp et qui delimitent les 


10 




fonctions et responsabilites de chacun: celles 
des membres de la direction, des employes, 
des moniteurs et monitrices, etc. Ces statuts 
devront codifier les termes et les conditions 
d'emploi. 

9—Une politique d'admission des campeurs et 
de relations avec les parents. 

10— Des normes d'adminstration financiere 
(budget, comptabilite, rapport financier, 
achats) qui accelerent les affaires du camp 
et qui permettent aux autres administrateurs 
d'etre informes et d'exercer les controles ne- 
cessaires. 

11— Des administrateurs et administratrices qui 
comprennent et acceptent leurs responsabili¬ 
tes et qui soient, face a la population, les 
interpretes les plus enthousiastes et les mieux 
infomes. 

Voila les caracteristiques a analyser qui pourraient 
servir de criteres a revaluation des camps en vue 
de ['Accreditation. 


4. LES ETAPES DE L'ACCREDITATION 

Quelles sont les etapes a suivre pour arriver 
a ['accreditation? Ilya deux phases principales: 
La definition des objectifs du camp et une 
auto-critique du camp. Les deux sont neces- 
saires et importantes et toutes deux difficiles 
a analyser. Ce travail incombe aux dirigeants 
du camp; ils doivent rechercher en equipe avec 
le personnel le pourquoi de I'etablissement du 
camp. 


1—La definition des objectifs du camp. 

Quelle mission precise le camp veut-il pour- 
suivre dans le milieu ou il s'insere? 

Veut-il donner une orientation ou une spe¬ 
cialisation en sciences naturelles, en educa¬ 
tion physique, en musique, en equitation, 
etc.? 

Veut-il au contraire offrir aux campeurs des 
activites generates avec une insistance sur 
une activite particuliere? Ne serait-ce pas 

Continued on page 29 


1 1 







.ir.irrriir nr lit - lllvflr,- 

I f f I F jB'd I' 4mW,9 d\~ *V <■' il 

». |i ,, *' « $• 4|P'J' »’ •’ , ,r 1*. 1 

ijr ,i .iik -i. 4ii « 



If you enjoy working with 
your hands (so many people 
do), then you will appreciate 
the contents of our new 1970 

CRAFT 

CATALOGUE 

and 

IDEA BOOIC 


Its 132 pages are full of Craft 
ideas, basic instructions and 
materials you can use during 
your creative leisure hours. 
Many craftworkers consider it 
a reference book on contempor¬ 
ary Arts 'n Crafts. So r if you 
enjoy working with your hands 
and would like a compliment¬ 
ary copy, simply send us your 
name and address. 



284-286 KING ST. WEST, 
TORONTO 2B, CANADA 




TOM THOMSON: THE ALGONQUIN YEARS 
by Ottlyn Addison in collaboration with Elizabeth 
Harwood — The Ryerson Press — $4-95 

Only a natuarlist who spent many years in 
Algonquin Park could have captured the spirit 
of Tom Tomson in this well documented and beauti¬ 
fully illustrated book. Possession of her father's 
(Mark Robinson) dairy, an intimate friend of Tom 
Thomson's, illuminates the important years of Cana¬ 
da's foremost landscape painter ... an inspiration 
to your campers. 

BIRDS OF THE NORTHERN FOREST 

paintings by J. F. Landsdowne text by John A. 
Livingston (Houghton Mifflin Co.) McClelland 
and Stewart Ltd., 25 Hollinger Road, Toronto 16, 
Ontario, Canada $20.00 

James Fenwick Lansdowne of Victoria B.C., 
still under thirty, has produced some of the finest 
portraits ever made of Northern birds. 

Full color reproductions with descriptive pages 
by John Livingston of Hamilton, Ontario — a for¬ 
mer Editor of Canadian Audubon Magazine — 
make this magificent book a valuable and pleasur¬ 
able investment for every camp- 

PAUL ELVSTROM EXPLAINS ... THE YACHT 
RACING RULES 

by Paul Elvstrom — Published in Great Brittain. 
Available from Elvstrom Sails, 97 Pelham Ave., 
Toronto 9, Ont. $4.25 

This cleverly presented little book is based on 
the current 1969 racing rules. It contains a plastic 
insert of 4 little sailboats so that rules and tactics 
can be easily demonstrated. Any camp that uses 
this book will automatically improve the quality 
of its sailing program. 


„ F o R SALE 

7 HEALTHY BOUNCE TRAMPOLINES 

Ground-level, pit type, high quality springs. Used 
for two summers. Excellent condition. $250 each; 
$200 for 3 or more. 

Mrs. Stella Embleton 

3006 Derdene Street Niagara Falls, Ontario 


12 




LAND OF THE ALGONQUIN 


Silver pools, silent paddles 
Rainbow rapids reckless riding 
Listless lilies, lagging . . • leaning . . . 
Silver pools, silent paddles 

Lift and lower stretch and swing muscles taut and 
backs are aching burning sun and shimmering 
waters — 

The portage is drawing near 

Shaded forests, shadowed feelings 
Pitiless pathways — pushing pulling 
Willowed woodlands, wordless wonder . . . 
Shaded forests, shadowed feelings 

Feet are rushing running falling packs are dropped 
and tents are propped setting sun and cooling 
waters — 

The end of day is almost here 

Patient darkness, peaceful dreamings 
Softened cedars, soothing silence 
Nestling night, knowing numbness . . . 
Patient darkness, peaceful dreamings 

by Lela Shepley 


CAMPING BOOKS 

A COMPLETE DISPLAY 
Visit - Phone - Write for Lists 


* * * * 


Ryerson Bookstore 

85 St. Clair Ave. E. 
Toronto 7, Ont. 

925-6597 925-5931 


* 


HOURS: 

Mon. - Wed. 9:00 a.m. - 5:30 p.m. 
Thurs., Fri. 9:00 a.m. - 9:00 p.m. 
Sat. 9:00 a.m. 5:00 p.m. 



13 







ADDRESS ON 

“RELATIONSHIPS OF CAMPING 
TO EDUCATION” 

delivered to 
Annual Conference 
of 

Newfoundland & Labrador Camping Association 
April 26th, 1969 
by 

Sister Mary Nolasco Mulcahy , RSM, Ph.D. 

Principal 

St. Bride*s College , St. Jolm*s y Newfoundland 



The title of this paper suggests the need for 
a definition of education which encompasses within 
its scope a consideration of camping- A very simple 
but comprehensive definition might be this one: 
Education is the total development of a human 
being in his total environment. Again, in speaking 
of education one assumes that certain fundamental 
questions are to be asked and, if possible, 
answered. Who is to be educated? What is the 
purpose of education? What are the aims and 
objectives? How are these aims and objectives to 
be achieved? What curriculm best serves these 
aims and objectives? How is subject matter to be 


taught? Who are the educators? 


If we assume that man is a physical, intellec¬ 
tual, social, moral, and spiritual being, then edu¬ 
cation is concerned with all these facets of his 
development. The philosophical and phychological 
principals which operate in a school situation have 
relevance for camping; human nature is the same 
everywhere. The boy or girl who comes to camp 
is no different from the boy or girl who comes 
to school and the educational situation is a minia¬ 
ture form of the school in a less formal fashion. 


14 




Education is concerned with physical develop¬ 
ment and this is much more than developing mus¬ 
cular strength and physical prowess. It is con¬ 
cerned with sharpening one's sense perceptions, 
instilling an awareness of one's physical potential, 
a respect for one's body including one's sexual 
endowment, and a sensitivity to nature. Camping 
provides a wonderful opportunity for all those 
things as campers are in a favourable position 
to observe nature at close range. 

Education is concerned with intellectual de¬ 
velopment- There is no doubt that intellectual hori¬ 
zons are broadened by camping experiences. Ideas 
do not come from a vacuum. 

Education is concerned with social and moral 
development. It is as a social agency that camping 
assumes important educational proportions. Living 
together as campers boys and girls learn from each 
others' views and personalities, from contiguity, 
from personal talk. They learn to share with others, 
to develop social sensitivities, to give and take, 
and this they learn, it is hoped, without lasping 
into social conformity. 

Education is concerned, in a Christian context, 
with spiritual development. Camping provides an 
opportunity for young people to live in Christian 
love and respect for one another- In a camp set 
in a Christian tradition boys and girls learn to live 
together, to work together, to play together, and 
to worship together. 

The next question concerns purpose in edu¬ 
cation. It is felt today by educators and other 
critics alike that we are suffering from the lack of 
a well-defined purpose in education and in life 
for that matter. Sir Richard Livingstone puts it this 
way: "We drift into and through education in a 
mechanical, automatic, unthinking way, instead of 
clearly defining to our minds what we wish edu¬ 
cation to do for us and asking ourselves whether 
it is doing it and, if not, why not". 

What are the implications of this for camping? 
Are there clear-cut aims and objectives set down? 
Is there a philosophy of camping with guidelines 
in evidence? In camping as in education in general 


one cannot get somewhere unless one has guide¬ 
lines to direct one in getting there. 

Given purpose in education the next task is to 
devise a curriculm and activities to achieve the 
purposes. And here enters a philosophy of cur¬ 
riculm planning and construction. Likewise in camp¬ 
ing, there should be a definite set of guidelines 
governing the selection of activities which will 
help to achieve the aims and objectives of camping. 
A philosophy of camping should not by any means 
restrict the campers in their activities- Systematic 
planning has never been known to curtail effici¬ 
ency. 

In the school situation instructional method 
forms an important aspect of education. In camp¬ 
ing, too, some attention must be given to the tech¬ 
niques of organizing and carrying out activities. 
Underlying methodology in the classroom are cer¬ 
tain psychological principles; these principles are 
no less important in the camping situation. 

The last question to be considered relates to 
educational agencies. Who shall educate? We are 
our first educators and self-activity is a sine qua 
non condition for all learning. Camping has ample 
opportunity to make use of this principle. And 
just as in a school the role of the administration 
and the teachers is important to the success of the 
situation so in camping the camp director and the 
camp counsellor play a vital role. In the relation¬ 
ship between campers and counsellors there should 
be the greatest confidence, love and respect with 
activities planned on a co-operative basis- The only 
way to work a camp is on democratic principles, 
and the only way to have these is to develop a 
philosophy of camping and this implies that cer¬ 
tain basic questions be considered. 

In conclusion we state questions with the hope 
that they may provide a basis for discussion. Is 
there a philosophy of camping? Are there clear- 
cut aims and objectives? What activities will best 
help to accomplish these aims and objectives? 
What is the role of the camp director and camp 
counsellor? The answer to these questions might 
well determine how effectively a camp is run. 

1 Richard W. Livingstone, The Future in Education, Cam¬ 
bridge University Press, 1945, p. 2. 



l£ 


LVMMRR CREST 


DIV.OF 

HOPKINS CYCLE 0 SPORTS ltd. 

2610 YONGE STREET - TORONTO 


We supply Crested "T" Shirts, Sweat 
Shirts, and any other of your cresting 
needs. We also carry Adidas sports 
shoes and other sports equipment. 






15 



WHEN STEALING 
OCCURS AT CAMP 

by Elsie Palter 


Stealing is a common symptom in childhood. 
Up to the age of six or seven, how the parent 
handles an isolated incident is most important. 
When this occurs, the child has to be helped to 
understand property rights. The parent should go 
alonq with the child to return the stolen item, 
explain that the child has made a mistake and 
thereby has learned to respect other's possessions. 
This incident can serve to help a child learn about 
honestv and should be the pattern of honesty in 
the parents' own lives and in their relations with 
their child* 

When there are repeated occurences of steal¬ 
ing, and beyond the age of seven or eight, a 
problem exists and should be recognized as such. 
Unfortunately stealing is a frequent symptom en¬ 
countered by parents who have problems with 
their children. The attitude towards stealing varies 
in different cultures; for example, in slum areas 
of large cities, stealing by children is quite accept¬ 
able and condoned, but getting caught is the of¬ 
fence. Gang play in some areas consists of pilfering 
fruit from the street vendor and is not regarded 
as undesirable behaviour. 

Stealing at home is generally regarded to be 
due to an unhealthy relationship with the parent 
or parents and the child is most frequently found 
to be suffering from parental rejection. Stealing 
at camp suggests the possibility of a problem that 
is deep rooted and other personality problems are 
usually involved. There are several possible causes 
and the disposal by the child of the stolen items 
also helps in our understanding of him. 

When the cause is the lack of sense of pro¬ 
perty rights, the parents have failed to teach their 
child an important aspect of social living and res¬ 
pect for others. An attempt can be made to rectify 
this gap in learning, but this is not a common 
cause* Very often the child steals things he does 
not need and gives them away to ingratiate himself 
with his fellow campers. When money is stolen, 
this, too, is often used to "buy" acceptance and 
the money is given away freely to those whom 


he seeks to please and thereby help him feel im¬ 
portant. The desire to possess is not nearly as 
frequent a cause as the desire to please. Another 
frequent cause is vengeful feelings against author¬ 
ity which sometimes prompts stealing in order 
to annoy the parent or counselor. By this means 
the child asserts himself and rids himself of the 
feeling of being treated unfairly. 

The commonest cause in the school age child 
is a need to overcome a sense of inferiority or a 
feeling of being different from the group due to 
perhaps a physical handicap, shabby clothes, over¬ 
weight, and even being too well dressed. This 
cause expresses itself usually in bribery or "splurge 
stealing" as it is sometimes called. Very seldom 
does the child have a need for the money or the 
item. When we encounter this problem at camp 
we owe the child our best efforts to try and under¬ 
stand him* We must examine his behaviour in 
relation to his age, his social history, parental re¬ 
lationships, peer relationships, and his individual 
needs. Generally, the child is telling us he needs 
understanding and acceptance and is asking for 
help. 

At camp, there is very little privacy and all 
behaviour is exposed, so that stealing is quickly 
detected and usually the culprit is readily iden¬ 
tified. The child seldom acknowledges his guilt 
and he is able to fabricate any number of reasons 
for having the item in his possession. Stealing is 
not usually limited to his camp life but has been 
characteristic of his behavior at home. It is because 
of his failure to have his needs satisfied at home 
that he brings these same needs with him to 
camp, and he is fearful of his role at camp. 

When a counselor is aware of a stealing prob¬ 
lem in his group, it would seem wise to call a 
meeting of the campers and staff of that small 
group. The children should be given an oppor¬ 
tunity in turn to express what they expect of 
their fellow campers with regasd to their personal 

Continued on page 27 


16 



LE VOL AU CAMP 

par Elsie Palter 
Traducteur, Janina Klee 


Le vol est un symptome commun de I'enfance 
Jusqu a I'age de six ou sept ans, la facon dont les 
parents traitent un incident isole est*de la plus 
haute importance. Lorsqu'un cas se presento, I'en- 
fant devrait etre aide a comprendre le droit de 
propriete. Les parents devraient accompagner I'en- 
fant a rendre I'objet vol£, expliquer que I'enfant 
a fait une faute, et que par la il a appris a respecter 
la propriete des autres- Cet incident peut servir a 
apprendre I'honnetete a I'enfant et devrait etre 
I'example de I'honnetete dans la vie des parents 
et dans leurs relations avec leur enfant. 

Lorsqu'il y a plusieurs cas de vol, et au dela de 
I'age de sept ou huit ans, un probleme existe et 
devrait etre reconnu comme tel. Malheureusement, 
le vol est un symptome frequent rencontr^ par les 
parents ayant des problbmes avec leurs enfants. 
L'attitude envers le vol varie dans les cultures dif- 
fdrentes. Par exemple, dans les quartiers pauvres 
des grandes villes le vol par enfants est assez ac¬ 
cept© et pardonn^, mais I offence consiste a se 
faire prendre. Dans certaines zones des enfants 
volent des fruits dans les rues en jouent, et cette 
action n'est pas consider^e comme une conduite 
indesirable- 

Le vol chez soi est g^neralement considere 
d'etre caus^ par de mauvais rapports avec les par¬ 
ents, et dans ce cas I'enfant souffre souvent d'un 
sentiment de rejet. Le vol au camp suggbre la pos¬ 
sibility d'un problbme profond et d'autres problV 
mes de personnalit^ sont souvent en cause. II y a 
plusieurs raisons possibles et I'usage que fait I'en¬ 
fant de I'objet voiy nous aide ^galement^ le com¬ 
prendre. 

Quand la cause est un manque de sens du 
droit de ^propri^t^, les parents ont echou^ h ap¬ 
prendre a leur enfant un aspect important de la 
vie sociale et le respect des autres. Un effort peut 
etre fait afin de rectifier cette lacune, mais ceci 
n'est pas une cause commune. Trfes souvent, I'enfant 
vole des objets dont il n'a pas besoin et les dis- 
trfbue afin d'entrer dans les bonnes graces de ses 
compagnons de camp. Lorsque de I'argent est vole. 


ceci egalement sert a "acheter" ('acceptation et 
I'argent est distribue librement parmi les camarades 
a qui veut plaire, et ceci lui donne un sentiment 
d'importance. Le d^sir de possession n'est pas une 
cause aussi frequente que le d^sir de plaire. D'au¬ 
tres causes fr^quentes sont les sentiments de venge¬ 
ance contre I'authority, constituant un motif de vol 
ayant pour but de contrarier les parents ourle chef 
de camp. De cette fajon I'enfant s'affirme et se de 
barasse du sentiment d'etre trait^ de fajon injuste. 

La cause la plus commune dans I'ecolier est 
le besoin de surmonter un sentiment d'infe'riority 
ou le sentiment d'etre different d'un groupe, caus^, 
par exemple, par un handicap physique, des v§te- 
ments rap^s, I'apparances physiques en general, 
et meme des v4tements trop riches- Cette cause 
s'exprime en ge'ny'ral en corruption et en vol en 
masse d'objets inutiles. Rarement I'enfant a besoin 
de I'argent ou de I'objet. Lorsque nous rencontrons 
ce probleme au camp, c'est notre devoir envers 
I'enfant de faire de notre mieux pour le comprend¬ 
re. Nous^ devons examiner son comportement par 
rapport a son age, son fond social, ses relations 
avec ses parents et ses amis, et ses besoins indi- 
viduels. Generalement, I'enfant nous fait savoir 
son besoin de comprehension et d'acceptation et 
il attend de I'aide- 

Au camp, il y a tres peu d'intimite et toutes 
les actions sont exposees, ayant pour resultat que 
le vol et !e voleur sont d^couverts trbs vite. L'en- 
fant n'avoue pas souvent sa faute et il est capable 
d'inventer plusieurs raisons justifiant sa possession 
fant n'avoue pas souvent sa faute et il est capable 
d'un objet. D'habitude le vol n'est pas limited sa 
vie au camp mais faisait partie de ses habitudes 
a la maison. C'est a cause du manque d'avoir ses 
besoins satisfaits chez lui qu'il apporte ces besoins 
avec lui au camp ob il a peur de son role. 

Quand un chef se rend compte d'un problbme 
de vol dans son groupe, il serait saga de reunir les 
campeurs et les chefs faisant partie de ce petit 
groupe. On devrait donner aux enfants, b tour de 
role, I'occassion d'exprimer ce qu'ils attendent de 
leur camarades en ce qui concerne leur propriete 

Continued on page 27 


17 


Continued from jmge 7 



STURGEONS LIMITED 


200 NORE LCO DR., 
WESTON, ONTARIO 




P%atcctivc /4U 








FREEZE-DRIED FOODS 


Meats • Vegetables • Fruits 
Egg Dishes • Sandwich Mixes 
Main Dishes • Large Packs 


Write for price lists and brochure 
to 

FREEZE-DRY FOODS LTD. 

579 Speers Road 



on their own initiative. 

We have cooperated with Red Cross and Royal 
Life Saving local instructors to offer water safety 
instruction programs to adults as well as to students 
of several grade levels. 

Last spring Thornlea Secondary School held a 
three-day resident art experience for students of 
grades 9-11. The students and teacher agreed that 
this was the most productive period of the whole 
school year. 

Four schools have used the camp for biology 
or natural science field study programs. Grade six 
through to grade thirteen students have been in¬ 
volved. There have also been several sessions in 
teacher training. Both on an in-service basis with 
a particular board and students from the College 
of Education have used the camp facilities for Out¬ 
door Education. 

Three schools have developed work-study pro¬ 
grams in co-operation with the camp. Eight tent 
floors, a bridge, a sauna bath, forestry work, and 
fence building are some examples of contributory 
work, by four and five year technical boys from 
Cedarbrae Collegiate and Thornlea Secondary 
School. 

A group of five-year Arts and Science students 
from* Cedarbrae used the camp as a base from 
which to do an intensive study of the geography 
and economics of the nearby Holland Marsh. 

At Don Head S.S. an extensive program is de¬ 
veloping with Vocational boys and girls Day long 
trips as well as overnights are held. An excellent 
Leadership Training program is in operation. The 
student leaders plan and execute the program in 
co-operation with the teachers. 

Last June the camp was the scene of a week- 
long resident French language camp. At "La Maison 
Francaise" forty students agreed to speak only 
French for an entire week. Plans are in progress 
to enlarge this camp next summer and to seek 
operation of a German language camp as well. 
While no extensive measurements have been made, 
the students involved in the French camp have 
generally improved in this subject in subsequent 
terms at school. 

Forty students of Jane Jr. High School spent 
four days at camp. They pitched their own tents, 
cooked their own meals, and performed exer¬ 
cises in surveying, geography, mathematics and 
language arts. They also received instructions in 
canoeing, swimming and water safety. 

Woodland, a Senior Elementary school used 


18 







our camp for a series of eight outdoor education 
days during January and February. A group of 
twelve outdoor activities was created, eight of 
which had to be completed during the day. Units 
included were: 


—Melting snow to find the ratio of snow to 
water 

-Measurement of the depth of snow and 
thereby a computation of the precipitation 
—Temperature reading at different depths of 
the pond 

—Study of the bud formations on trees 
—Impressions of bark in cobbler's wax for 
later identification 

—Study of the effects of winter on trees, e.g. 

the damage by rodents 
—Study of animal tracks 
—Construction of a shelter for two 
—First-aid problem solving. What to do in case 
of an accident in winter 
—Language arts — a description of experiences 
in French and English. Lab reports were also 
required 

—Orienteering on snowshoes or skiis 
—Snowshoes are provided to enable the stu¬ 
dents to travel in the deep snow to the 
locations of their field work 
—Students planned and cooked their own lunch 
over an outdoor fire 




SPRING WORLD, AWAKE: Stories, Poems, Essays 

Compiled by Mildred Corell Luckhardt 
Illustrated by Ralph McDonald 

A delightful anthology of stories, ballads, poems, 
fantasies, fairy tales, and folk legends from around 
the world - all on the theme of SPRING. Holidays, 
feasts, and festivals from around the world are re¬ 
presented as are all ages, races, and lands. 
(Abingdon) Ages 8 to 12 $7.75 

CAMP AND trail pocket library 

New editions — $1.95 each 
Canoeing for Beginners by Ronald H. Perry 
Good Times around the Campfire by LaRue Thurston 
Indian Crafts for Campers by Oscar E. Norbeck 
The Fun in Winter Camping by H. Edgren and 
G. Peterson. Still available at: $1.10 

Also of Interest: 

Knotcraft by A. & P. Macfarlan 

Administration of the Modern Camp 

by Hedley S. Dimock 

Maintenance of Camps and other Recreation 
Facilities by Alan Nathans 
Camp Counselors Manual 
by Ledlie and Holbein 
So You Want to be a Camp Counselor 
by Elmer F. Ott 


6.50 

5.50 
8.75 
1.35 
1.65 


Order from your favorite bookstore 


G. R. WELCH COMPANY LIMITED, TORONTO 18 


The camp has also been made available to 
pupils from schools in grade 2-5 who entered 
into such activities as hikes, science studies, and 
picnic on a day basis. 

Two Nursery schools have used the camp each 
June for a day of nature walks, games, and a 
picnic. 

Since I happen to be a teacher as well as a 
Camp Director and since my prime responsibility 
is to my school, the bulk of the leadership for 
each of these programs described has been pro¬ 
vided by the teachers of the schools concerned. 
The camp will, however, provide consultant ser¬ 
vices in establishing programs at no extra charge 
other than the rental fee. 

If you wish to offer your camp for Outdoor 
Education, the first step is probably to contact 
the local teachers of science, physical education, 
geography, art, and languages, invite them to 
your camp and at the same time write to the 
Director of Education to inform him of the avail¬ 
ability of the camp. 

The Ontario Teachers' Federation will soon pub¬ 
lish a Handbook on Outdoor Education in which 
will be listed camps which have shown an in¬ 
terest in being involved in this field. I hope those 
of you who do get involved enjoy it as much a 
I have. 


For All Marine 
Camping Needs . . . 


SKIS - LIFEJACKETS 
ROPE, SAILS, FLAGS 
NAUTICAL CLOTHING 
FOUL WEATHER GEAR 
ALL BOATING APPAREL 
DECK SHOES 
SAILBOAT HARDWARE 
POWER BOAT HARDWARE 

Write for our 

Marine and Winter Catalogues % 

<& 





FOR PERSONAL 
IDENTIFICATION 
QF CLOTHING AND BELONGINGS 

Camp linen and equipment too, 
should be marked to avoid 
confusion and loss. Names 
or numbers can be supplied. 

Order Cash's Name Tapes 
from dealers or 

CASH'S, Box 116 , Belleville, Ont. 

PRINTED 
NAME 
PRICES 

6 doz. $1.75—12 doz.—$2.20 
9 doz.—$2.00—24 doz. $3.25 
No C.O.D/s — Please mail cheque or 
money order, including 5c postage. (Ont. /■* 

residents add 5% retail sales tax.) a 


WIRCO WARES 

P.O. Box 2 103 Alexdon Road 

DOWNSVIEW, ONTARIO 

COMPLETE FOOD SERVICE EQUIPMENT 
SPECIALS: 

1 used two-slice 
Rotary Electric Toaster 
1 used Moffat Propane Gas 
Range — six burners, griddle 
broiler and one oven. 

Telephone: (416) 630-8161 




NORTH WEST CANVAS LIMITED 

Manufacturers of 

Trip and Incamp Tents, Flys, Packsacks, 
Tarps, Sleeping Bags, Etc., Made of Nylon, 
Sail Silk, Fabrine, Cotton, etc. 
AlsoFoam Mattresses and General Repairs 

1356 Regina Street, North Bay, Ontario 
Telephone 474-2777 


s 

\ 

v 

V 

v 




MEDICAL 
SUPPLIES 
FOR CAMPS? 


Starkmans of course, because we have been supplying all the major 
camps for over 37 years. 

Starkmans wholesale division gives you one source of supply—fast 
service, and all orders are shipped the same day received. 

You are sure of the finest First Aid equipment, drugs and medicines, 
call or write, and remember low, low prices prevail at Starkmans. 

STARKMAN 

“Jn the Service o( Medicine” CHEMISTS LIMITED 

1243 Bathurst St., Toronto 
535-3103 


20 









LAURENCE TAYLOR IN PRACTICE 

by Mary Leggart, Camp Onawaw 


Laurence Taylor at his sessions on leadership 
at the Ontario 1969 Conference, gave us many 
ideas and some very practical suggestions about 
total participation in discussion groups. Could we 
adapt this to the camp setting? He felt we could 
so we experimented- Our goal was to pass his 
information on to our counsellors so that they 
could use this method themselves. We felt that 
they must actually participate so that they would 
understand what it was like and how successful 
it could be. 

The best time to try out anything new is 
during pre-camp training. We have an eight-day 
pre-camp for counsellors and two extra days for 
the department and section heads. We had dis¬ 
cussed in town with as many of the senior staff 
as we could collect, what would be the general 
program for pre-camp and camp itself; only one 
definite decision was reached: that we try out the 
new technique. Of course this meant that the de¬ 
partment and section heads had to be ready for 
anything!) 

As I was to be the leader it was my job to find 
the warmest spot (it was still cool) with a suitable 
table and chairs, have paper and pencils available 
for everybody, ash tray, brown paper pinned to the 
wall for writing major decisions since we have 
no easel or chalk board, and to be there early to 
greet every one as she came in. Coffee was avail¬ 
able for all who wished it. The right atmosphere 
is so important- 

After everybody arrived I explained what we 
were to accomplish during these sessions so that 
we could plan the pre-camp program. 

First we would introduce ourselves by our 
names (and our camp names if we had them) and 
as some of us were new and many of us hadn't 
seen each other since last year's camp, we would 
tell what we had done during the year to bring 
everybody up to date. Each person would be 
given one minute to do this therefore we had to 
choose a time keeper. 

After the introductions they would be given 
a specific question to discuss and these were the 
ground rules* 

Three minutes to think about the question. The 
paper and pencils were available for writing down 
ideas. 

A volunteer would speak first and then the 
group would follow in a clockwise fashion. 


One minute to speak. 

The speaker could speak directly on the ques¬ 
tion or comment on previous answers. 

or Pass and have time later if she so chose. 

or Ask for silence for her time so that every¬ 
one could do some more thinking. 

(We used a tape recorder which I felt inhibited 
some of the staff). 

The question was: "What do you expect to 
get out of pre-camp?" 

I acted as recorder and the main points were 
written on the paper for all to see- 

It was time for a short break and coffee was 
served. 

At the next session we worked on: "What do 
you think the counsellors want to qet out of pre¬ 
camp?" 

Since everybody knew the ground rules for 
this type of discussion we were able to make this 
session much shorter. 


In the afternoon we talked about what had 
happened during the morning. We had found out 
what they wanted to do in the next few days, 
and so were able to prepare for the following 
day and the first two days of the counsellors' pre¬ 
camp. 

Next we planned the discussion for the coun¬ 
sellors at their introductory session. Since the num¬ 
bers would be far greater, they were divided into 
four groups, with the same number of new staff in 
each group. I had acted as leader, secretary and 
host but these tasks should be carried out by 
three persons. We discussed the role of leader, 
secretary and host. 

The leader was to prepare the background in¬ 
formation for the discussion* Ask for a volunteer 
for time-keeper; ask for a volunteer to speak first, 
and to be aware of and fully understand the 
ground rules. 

The secretary to record all ideas. 

The host to prepare the facilities as I had done 
at the opening session, to welcome the counsellors, 
and to take them to their particular group. 

Continued on next page 


21 




Langford Canoes 

Canvas Covered Cedar Strip 



A Better Canoe 
at a Better Price 


Order NOW and avoid disappointment 
From 

GREAT CIRCLE TRADING COMPANY, LIMITED 

UNIT 20 

90 SIGNET DRIVE, 

WESTON 485, ONTARIO 

(416) 749-0132 or 233-5868 


-VV/VVVV 




ij 

v 

i} 

V 

V 

i 


1 


The senior staff were divided amongst the 
four groups and the leaders, secretaries and hosts 
decided upon. 

At the opening session for the whole staff I 
acted as co-ordinator and explained what would 
be happening. Then each group followed the same 
procedure as we had done with the first group. 
The question this time was: "What do you expect 
to get out of pre-camp?" 

Since there were four groups each group was 
asked to select the three most important ideas 
from their discussion. These were reported by the 
secretaries at the conclusion of the sessions, and 
written on the paper for all to see. A short time 
was alotted for questions or further ideas- 

At the next session they considered: "What 
do you think the campers want to get out of 
camp?" 

With these ideas we were able to finalize our 
pre-camp program and the first few days of the 
campers' program. 

Actually the program was not very different 
from what we might have planned. It included 
reviewing their skills, with time to learn some new 
ones; to sing camp songs; to have theory sessions 
about groups, discipline, children, organization of 
trips and play days! explore the area by foot and 
by water, and have fun. The department heads 
wanted to get their departments and staff ready 
for the opening day of camp. 

The big difference compared to former was 
the much greater participation, and enthusiasm. 
We had an extremely interesting and active pre¬ 
camp. 

This technique of discussion was used in smaller 
groups and with senior campers, and wa very 
successful. This year we hope to try it with younger 
groups and with senior campers, and was very 
if it is explained carefully. Like all techniques it 
must not be over-worked. 



22 



WE NEED 


PHOTOGRAPHS! 

OR SKETCHES 

for the Cover of CANADIAN CAMPING 
or to illustrate articles. 

Please mail to: CANADIAN CAMPING 

c/o the Editor, Box 1107, 
Huntsville, Ont. 



THE S.O.S. OXYGEN INHALATOR 

A brand new concept of oxygen administration, giving an automatic 
flow of six litres of oxygen per minute at less than one pound static 
pressure. 

Twenty-pound Case . . . Easy to Carry . . . Completely Shockproof 

SAFE TO OPERATE 

Available for direct connection to S.O.S. is a manual bag-type resuscitator. 
Can be directly connected to the inhalator for restoration of the breathing 
cycle in case of drowning, asphyxiation, etc. 

STEWART OXYGEN SERVICE (CANADA) LIMITED, 

159 Bay St. Suite 617, Toronto 116, Ont. (416)363-9031 


MBROmREd CAMP CRESTS 


CUSTOM-MADE 


YOUR DESIGN 


Your choice of colours on washable material, with colourfast silk yarns. Quality 
silk embroidery at prices you would normally expect to pay for other types of 
crests. Send a rough sketch of your design for a quotation.* FREE artwork. 


GRANT 


EMBLEMS 


Stanley A. Grant Limited — 255-3421 — 134 Park Lawn Rd. 
Toronto 18, Canada. 


feii 


YOUR CAMPERS WILL ENJOY 

SchneiderS 

FAMOUS FOR QUALITY FOOD PRODUCTS 


J. M. SCHNEIDER LIMITED 

KITCHENER, ONTARIO 


519—745-7321 




23 







Continued from page 9 

It is relevant to glance briefly at our heritage 
and trace how, on this continent, there has been 
an evolution in attitudes to the middle space. The 
Indian for centuries tended to approach his natural 
surroundings as a friend. On foot, by canoe, or by 
horse and travois he moved from one. setting to 
another, never really depleting his living environ¬ 
ment and the resources it afforded for his survival. 
He lived in and with his surroundings in a state of 
harmony that he seemed to recognize was the only 
way to assure his continued existence. In his rituals 
he reflected his respect for the elements as he 
admitted his dependency on the world around him. 
Maka-ina, mother earth, and the four winds re¬ 
ceived his salutes around the council campfires. 

The more recent arrivals and in particular the 
white man looked upon the wilderness as an en¬ 
emy to be subdued and subdue it he did with all 
the energy and ingenuity he could muster. Hack¬ 
ing,, gouging, blasting, burning, scraping, digging, 
burying, flooding, cutting, draining, stripping, 
hunting and trapping were all included in his in¬ 
ventory of ways. True, much of it was essential, 
but so badly planned and with such little apprecia¬ 
tion of consequences. What is even more discon¬ 
certing is that with all the experience that man 
has gained, confusion and indecision today haunts 
the land. Still, values remain blurred and ill-de¬ 
fined, fluctuating according to convenience. We 
blunder along over Spadina Expressway issues, 
waste disposal, highways, mines and quarries, 
energy plants, subdivisions, huge public camp¬ 
sites in parks and industrial developments. Al¬ 
though I am not a pessimist, I can understand the 
predictions of a Doxiades who suggested that pres¬ 
ent trends cannot but lead to disaster. 

Really there is no need to turn man into a slave 
of the machine. The intent when the machine age 
dawned was that man would be freed from the 
mundaneness of life, the boredom of routine oc¬ 
cupation, the disproportionate time required to 
pursue a livelihood but man has succumbed and 
surrendered. He runs hither and thither often aim¬ 
lessly and without cause, feeling a compulsion to 
dance to the ticks of the clock, one of the earliest 
machines. 

We could, indeed, get much better service 
from machines of all kinds if we understood the 
necessity of preserving human values — of being 
concerned less with the duality and much more 
with the quality of life. This will require a shift 
in a value system which is very much oriented to 
the quantitative aspects of living. 

Winston Churchill pointed out "We shape our 
cities and then they shape our way of life". Wheth¬ 
er or not we really shape our cities is open to 
assessment. As it stands now, the one-third of our 
daily time which we might devote to leisure. 


pleasure and thought is invaded by enormous 
community problems, not the least of which is 
traffic and transportation. Yet it is that time which 
makes the difference between man and animal, 
a free citizen or a slave. 

This leads to the inner space frontier which 
requires our constant vigilance. There are strong 
tides of intolerance, greed, envy, waste, sensuality, 
brutality, self-centerdness, indifference, misunder¬ 
standing, lack of trust. History reveals these are 
not new but in a crowded planet their proportions 
are frightening. Such considerations make the 
challenge of positive self-concept a very relevant 
one. The way we regard ourselves and the manner 
in which we relate to other persons are interde¬ 
pendent considerations. Tennyson spoke of "self¬ 
reverence, self-knowledge, self-control" leading to 
"sovereign power". 

The questions that follow might serve as a 
guide to those who see in self-concept an area 
for cultivation: 

1) How can a person feel liked unless 
somebody likes him? 

2) How can a person feel wanted unless 
somebody wants him? 

3) How can a person feel acceptable 
unless somebody accepts him? 

4) How can a person feel able unless 
somewhere he has some success? 

5) How can a person feel important 
unless he is important to someone? 

In a study entitled "The Influence of School 
Camping on the Self-Concepts and Social Relation¬ 
ships of Sixth Grade School Children" by Jerome 
Beker, Teachers' College, Columbia University, it 
was learned that camping (5 days) can have a 
marked positive impact on children's self-concepts 
and to a slightly lesser degree on their social 
relationships as well. The precise nature and 
depth of this influence and its specific determ¬ 
inants, however, remain obscure. If the specific 
elements in the experience and climate, that tend 
to promote camper growth can be identified, it 
may be possible to apply them elsewhere, e.g. 
classroom, recreation, etc. An understanding of 
the impact of camping may suggest ways of in¬ 
creasing the potency of educational and recrea¬ 
tional settings. 

In the adventure of exploring the inner space, 
the middle space may become a very prominent 
partner. The joys of the open provide opportuni¬ 
ties for understanding and nourishing the inner 
space; not to escape from reality but to learn to 
cope with it. To be in tune with the natural rhy¬ 
thms of life affords a time to see oneself in a 
new perspective, to begin to see how one fits 
into the spectrum of life and living things. 

Continued on page 26 


24 






M * f " ^ Jk, TMtf *f*MT . *: m 

FOR REAL HEAVY DUTY WASHING- 
McKEMCO’S NEW AERO COMPOUND 

IS UNBEATABLE 

— 

• The ideal answer for heavily soiled garments! 

• Excellent for dirty linen supply work too! 

• Use as a "one shot" compound, or with McKemco 
Laundry Soap Powder, or pure soap. 

• Use dry on the wash wheel, or in a stock solution. 

• Contains C.M.C. plus a fluorescent brightener, 
but no bleach. 

For a free demonstration of what new Aero compound 
can do for your operations, contact your McKemco man! 


am 

sSII 

CHEMICAL C 


. mm 

ism 




A Quarter of a Century of Service with Sales 

100 MIDWEST ROAD, SCARBOROUGH, ONTARIO 
and McKAGUE CHEMICALS (EASTERN) LTD. 

421 COURTEMANCHE AVENUE, MONTREAL EAST, QUEBEC 

We sell and service a complete line of laundry and dry cleaning chemicals and machinery, 

■ r - tit 


25 





Continued from page 2h 

In relating the inner and middle spaces, the 
camping movement has an unusual opportunity. 
Historically there has been an attempt to regard 
the central mission of camping as one in which the 
natural environment has played a fundamental 
role in developing the human resource. The unique¬ 
ness of camping has generally been in the way 
the natural world has become involved as a tool 
for the positive development especially of young 
persons. In the beginning it was not necessarily 
a concious or deliberate effort but nonetheless it 
happened. In examining modern camp pro¬ 
grammes and leadership styles there appears to 
be a lack of emphasis in relating to the middle 
space. The middle space deserves a great deal more 
attention by camping leadership than it is currently 
receiving. This issue becomes more urgent when 
it is realized that in camping is the finest opportun¬ 
ity to build enduring insight into the natural en¬ 
vironment; its diversity; its adaptive strategies; its 
ceaseless change; and its limitless interrelation¬ 
ships. Apart from its application to a qualitative 
life and all that might apply there is, as mentioned 
earlier, the ever present relationship to man's sur¬ 
vival . . . This is the trailer truck that polluted the 
air which polluted the clouds which polluted the 
rain that fell to earth and polluted the land which 
polluted the plants and the water . . . and poisoned 
man . . . 

The kind of rapport that is desirable with the 
natural world can be gained through a wide range 
of multi-sensory based experiences: 


—hearing the friendly call of a chickadee 
on a cross country snowshoe trek 
—enduring the sting of a tough portage 
—testing the palatability of a survival food 
—guiding a canoe through swift deter¬ 
mined waters 

—fashioning a thing of beauty from 
driftwood 

—discussing how things were done by 
those who lived a different way 
—observing the patterned pursuits of 
bees in a hive 

—playing in the clean water of a sheltered 
bay 

—pausing to wonder at the confident 
flight of migrating geese 
—attempting to translate or canvas the 
orange sky and lengthening shadows 
of evening. 

In all of these the participant, the camper is 
active, discovering, exploring, experiencing fun 
and excitement, contemplation and meditation. 
The inner space is being profoundly affected! 

In summary, the theme of this discussion has 
been to emphasize that the inner and middle 
spaces are modern frontiers and that they are in¬ 
terrelated. Further the camping movement has a 
front line responsibility to explore those spaces 
and chart them for those who come into the sphere 
of influence of camping leadership. In striving to¬ 
ward a quality life goal, camping leaders are in¬ 
deed spacemen of the highest order. 



OUR "VANGUARD" STYLE 
With Draining and Stacking Features 


ORDER NOW FOR BETTER 
ASSORTMENT 

WILL HOLD FOR CAMP OPENING 
LIMITED SUPPLY 

Pre-Camptime Offer of 
Substandards at Generous 
Discounts 

Items not Illustrated: 

• Vegetable Bowl 

• Platter 

• Pitcher 

• Tumbler 

• Creamer and Sugar 

• Salad Servers 

• Jam or Sugar Pot 

• Salt and Peppers 

• Soup Plate 

• Butter Dish and 
Cover 

• Gravy Boat 

Colours: Yellow, 
Green, Coral, Blue 

6tf tytpfec 

375 Danforth Road, 
Scarborough, Ont. 

698-2545 


26 


Continued from page 16 

property and what they feel is required of them, 
there should be no accusations at this meeting, 
only an expression of expectation and finally a 
consensus should be reached by the group in this 
matter Each child could be asked to write the 
name of the person whom they believe has been 
guilty of stealing and this information must be 
treated confidentially. The child can then be helped 
privately and when he feels ready to accept the 
rules laid down by the group, express his mistake 
at a later meeting and state his desire to accept 
group rules. 

We can help this camper. We must find ways 
in which he is important, either in his contribution 
to cabin life or the wider camp program. He needs 
individual attention, he needs to succeed and with 
this he has to feel that he is accepted. It is possible 
that the special attention, approval, and affection 
that he receives at camp will eliminate the stealing 
problem while he is in our care. At all times, we 
must be very direct and honest with him about 
his behaviour without making him feel "bad", 
"undesirable", and "unwanted". By dealing with 
our feelings for him in this honest manner and 
showing him that we care about him, not only 
in an intellectual way, but emotionally, it will give 
him strength and courage to achieve acceptance in 
a positive manner. 


Continued from Page 17 

priv^e et ce qu'a leur avis on attend d'eux. Les 
accusations devraient etre ^vit^es h cette reunion, 
et un accord devrait &tre obtenu par le groups. On 
pourrait demander ^ chaque enfant d'ecrire le nom 
de la personne qui, d'apres eux est le coupable, 
et cette information devrait £tre traitee confidentiel- 
lement. L'enfant pourrait alors recevoir de I'aide 
privee et quand il se sent pret a accepter les regies 
decid^es par le groupe, avouer sa faute a une re¬ 
union prochaine, et exprimer son d^sir d'accepter 
les rbglements du groupe. 

Nous pouvons aider le campeur. Nous devons 
decouvrir les moyens par lesquels il se sent impor¬ 
tant, ou bien dans sa contribution dans la vie des 
cabines, ou bien dans un programme plus etendu, 
se rapportant au camp entier. II a besoin detention 
individuelle et il a besoin de r^ussir et avec ceci 
il doit sentir qu'il est accepted II est possible 
que ('attention sp^ciale, I'approbation et I'affection 
qu'il recoit au camp suprimera le probleme de vol 
durantTe temps pass^ avec nous. De toutes facons, 
nous devons etre honnetes avec lui a propos de son 
comportement sans qu'il se sente "mauvais" ou 
"indesirable". En traitant de nos sentiments pour 
lui de cette fa^on honnete et en lui montrant que 
nous nous soucions de lui, pas seulement sur le 
plan intellectual, mais aussi sur le plan emotionnel 
cela lui donnera la force et le courage necassaires 
pour obtenir ('acceptation de fa^on positive. 


NOW 

PUS FOR CAMPS 


Wise camps use Stafford's pie filling and bake a pie 
in HALF THE TIME. Stafford's pie filling is ready-to-use. 
Just pour it in the pie shell, and pop it in the oven. Out 
comes a tender, flaky pie no camper can resist, with his 
favorite filling—pineapple, mincemeat, raisin, raspberry, 
blueberry, cherry, apple, peach or strawberry and rhubarb. 

See your Stafford man for pickles, relish, salad dress¬ 
ing, mustard, hot chocolate, canned fruits and vegetables, 
tea, jams, toppings and shortening ... all with that home¬ 
made flavour. 


Stafford 


Stafford 


apple pie 




Stafford 

t-H ue BERRY Pit 
| GfiJW 


FOODS LIMITED 

37 Hanna Ave. - Toronto 3 


BRANCHES: 

MONCTON, 


MONTREAL, 


WINNIPEG, 


CALGARY, 


366-8021 

EDMONTON, VANCOUVER 











Is pure water a luxury? 


jgsggu No. It’s a necessity. 

fI f ^L 1 And one you can well 

BE) afford. For surprising- 

■ I ly little, you can get 

§& water in your camp 

gj 1 that’s cleaner and 

a c3 1 sweeter than most 

people have in their homes. Everpure’s 
Ci and C3 water filters remove dirt, 
cloudiness, chlorine traces, and musty, 
disagreeable tastes. 

So, even if your water comes straight 
from the lake, the Ci or C3 (together 
with one of our chlorinators), will con¬ 
vert it into pure, sweet water. For 
drinking. For cooking. For washing. And 
it’ll cost you far less than an unwanted 
medical bill! 

See your local plumber, Culligan dealer, or contact us direct 

EVERPURE of Canada Ltd. A 

(A subsidiary of Culligan of Canada Ltd.) 

Sheridan Park, Mississauga, Ontario (416) 822-1601 



Continued from page 11 

un camp d'education generale? 

Autant de questions que les directeurs ont le 
devoir de se poser et auxquelles ils doivent 
apporter des reponses precises. La realisation 
de ces objectifs sera ensuite I'objet de tous 
leurs efforts. 

Pour y repondre, les autorite's du camp doi¬ 
vent etudier attentivement la charte civile 
du camp s'il est incorpord. 

D'habitude, c'est le document qui renseigne 
le mieux sur les buts que se proposaient les 
fondateurs du camp. 

Si le camp n'est pas incorpore, il doit se 
trouver des documents ou des personnes qui 
sachent tres bien le pourquoi de la fondation 
du camp, 

L'inventaire racontera qu'il y a eu des amend¬ 
ments qui ont oriente le camp et I'ont fait 
evoluer autrement. C'est ^occasion pour les 
administrateurs de penser a structurer des 
buts a la taille et a la dimension qu'»ls veulent 
pour le camp qui a une fonction sociale a 
jouer dans un milieu donn^. 

II est beaucoup plus facile de realiser alors 
les objectifs quand ceux-ci sont clairs et 
precis afin de tendre ^ une excellence. 

2—Une auto-critique du camp. 

La seconde etape de ^accreditation consistera 
en une auto-critique du camp. Les objectifs 
definis, il faut £tre capable de les atteindre 
avec les moyens dont on dispose. Tout le 
personnel devra etre mobilise pour dresser 
un inventaire positif de toutes les possibili¬ 
ty, non pas dans un souci d'auto-defense, 
mais dans une perspective d'auto-critique 
i.e. une analyse precise de la situation actu- 
elle du camp dans tous les domaines. Le 
texte des normes nouvelles que tous ont recu 
est ^instrument principal de cette evaluation. 
Pour proceder a I'elaboration de ce travail, 
il est utile pour le directeur de s'entourer 
des personnes les mieux qualifiees de son 
personnel. 

L'inventaire portera tour a tour sur: 

a) ^Administration: 

Le camp possede-t-il la structure administra¬ 
tive la plus apte a le faire progresser? Son 
organisation est-elle perimee ou repond-elle 
aux besoins? Y a-t-il suffisamment de per¬ 
sonnes presentes au conseil du camp? La 
linge de l'autorit£ est-elle bien respectee 
dans ^organigramme? La fonction de chacun 
des responsables sont-elles bien etablies et 
connues? Y a-t-il un Coutumier du camp? . . . 

b) Le Programme: 

Les objectifs du programme d'activites du 
camp sont-ils en accord avec la philosophie 
du camping? Rdpondent-ils a ce que le camp 
peut offrir? Le camp dispo-t-il d'un personnel 
suffisant en qualite et en quantity, de lo- 
caux et equipement requis pour que le pro¬ 


gramme puisse etre offert avec excellence? 
Ce programme est-il concu et appliqud de 
fa^on que le camp puisse rencontrer dans 
le detail les exigences des objectifs. 

c) Les ressources: 

Le camp dispose-t-il de tout I'apport materiel 
necessaire et indispensable a la realisation 
du programme d'activitds? 

L'dnumeration qui est faite en ce sens dans 
les normes se trouve-elle dans le camp? 

d) La Vie des campeurs et campeuses: 

Les jeunes qui vivent au camp acceptent-ils 
de bon coeur les activites du camp? Quel 
climat regne au camp chez les campeurs? 
Des changements au programme de la vie 
des campeurs ont-ils lieu d'etre apport^s pour 
repondre a leurs desirs legitimes? 

Les moniteurs et monitrices sont-ils impr¬ 
esses a la vie des campeurs et campeuses? 
Le camp a-t-il prevu pour eux des moyens 
de veiller a leur sante physique et morale? 
La vie spirituelle du camp est-elle integree 
dans I'oeuvre ou fait-elle partie d'activites 
qui s'ajoutent sans lien avec le reste? 

e) Les finances du camp: 

Quelle est I'organisation prevue pour I'ad- 
ministration financiere du camp? Les ressour¬ 
ces en argent d'ou proviennent-elles? Y a-t-il 
un plan a long terme prPvu pour le devel- 
oppement et I'amelioration du camp? Peut- 
on financer I'achat de tout le materiel indis¬ 
pensable? 

f) L'hygiene, la sante et la securite: 

Les installations repondent-elles aux exigen¬ 
ces des normes au points de vue hygiene 
et securite? L'analyse de Leau potable et 
celle de la plage, le lait, la refrigration, la 
proprete des locaux sont-ils I'objet incessant 
des membres de la direction? 

La place de bain et les embarcations et ceux 
qui les dirigent offrent toutes les garanties 
de sPcurite. 

Comme on peut le constater, il ne s'agit pas d'une 
enqudte banale, mais d'une veritable prise de con¬ 
science par tous les responsables de tout ce qui 
existe dans le camp. Travail tres important qui 
ambnera tout le personnel ^ discuter, ^ echanger 
des id^es, ^ proposer des ameliorations dans un 
esprit democratique. 

Ce bilan etabli, il faudra chercher les points 
ou des changements efficaces sont desirables. On 
visitera d'autres camps de meme type qui sont 
reconnus comme s^rieux et progresses. On cher- 
chera ce qu'il y a de neuf dans les m^thodes ex¬ 
poses dans des revues pour essayer de les adap¬ 
ter dans son camp. 

Continued on page 30 


29 


Continued from page 29 

C'est le c6te progressif de I'accrdditation: vouloir 
pour son camp ce qu'il y a de meilleur, de plus 
parfait, non seulement d'une fajon passagbre, mais 
permanente. 

L'accr^ditation va obliger a refaire constam- 
ment cette auto-critique, b avoir sans cesse le 
souci de contr6ler les rdsultats obtenus en regard 
des objectifs fixds. 

Le camp qui fera cette demarche d'esprit sera 
accr£dit£ II sera alors consid^r^ par le Comite des 
Normes de 1'ACQ comme serieux parce qu'il se 
conformera aux exigences des normes. 

Encore une fois, ce sont les camps qui feront 
leur propre accreditation, le visiteur va seulement 
la constater officieilement. 

^accreditation du camp accomplie, c'est le 
r6le des dirigeants de l'ACQ par le Comite des 
Normes de le suivre de pres; et tous les 2 ou 3 
and environ, un contr6le des r^sultats et une re- 
evaluation de ses progrbs sera reprise. 

5. AVANTAGES DE L'ACCREDITATION 

L'accreditation sera done pour les camps un 
stimulant. Mais ce n'est pas le seul avantage. 
Si les camps lui sont redevables d'un serieux 
accru et publie, la societe, les parents, les 
moniteurs et les campeurs en retirent ^gale- 
ment de predeux profits. 

1— Aux camps, ('accreditation assure: 

a) le serieux dans I'ordre administratif en 
obligeantb recourirb une structure ad¬ 
ministrative efficace et stable. 

b) le s/rieux par cette auto-critique perio- 
dique. 

c) I'interet du public et des parents qui 
font facilement la distinction entre un 
camp de classe et un autre moins bon. 
Et cela pas necessairement a cause du 
prix de la pension. 

d) le concours d'un personnel excellent qui 
sera toujours inte'resseb travailler dans 
un camp dont le serieux est reconnu 
officieilement. 

e) I'aide financibre des gouvernements et 
des compagnies que les camps pour- 
raient recevoir. 

2— A la soci^t£, l'accreditation assure: 

a) une protection contre les les camps qui 

n'ont aucune valeur et qui pretendent 
avoir le droit d'ouvrir leurs portes. 

b) le maintien de normes tres ^levees. 

c) le bon usage des sommes vers^es par 
I'Etat ou par les organismes d'oeuvres 
de charite'. 

3_Aux parents et aux campeurs, I'accredita- 

tion permet: 


a) de choisir avec plus’ de facilite des 
camps de qualite. 

b) de les prot^ger contre des organisa¬ 
tions ob manquent certains elements de 
s^curit^ et d'hygibne. 

4—Aux moniteurs et monitrices, ^accreditation 

garantit: 

a) la participation active a la vie du canrrp^ 

b) la possibility de travailler durant I'ete 
dans un milieu d'^ducation valable. 

Pour tous, l'accreditation des camps est une 
protection parce qu'elle repond a des imp£ratifs 
de QUALITE. 

El le sert de TREMPLIN aux camps qui tendent 
vers une EXCELLENCE que Ton souhaite de toutes 
parts et par tous depuis que les camps de langue 
fran£aise sur le module de ceux de langue an- 
glaise ont decide de se grouper en association. 

Ce sont les camps qui feront leur propre ac¬ 
creditation . . . le visiteur va seulement la con¬ 
stater offioiellement! 

When You Buy Remember 
Our Advertisers: 


Cash’s Name Tapes-20 

.Chestnut Canoe Co., Ltd.-8 

Continental Casualty Co. -- Outside Back 

Everpure of Canada, Ltd.-28 

Freeze-Dry Foods, Ltd.-18 

Gibbons Food, Ltd.-Inside Front 

Grant Emblems_23 

Great Circle Trading Co., Ltd.-22 

S. Gumpert Co. of Canada, Ltd_22 

Hopkins Cycle and Sports, Ltd.-15 

John Leckie, Ltd_6 

Lewiscraft __12 

McKague Chemical Co., Ltd. __ _ 25 

Map lex, Ltd. ___ 26 

National Grocers Co., Ltd.__Inside Back 

North West Canvas, Ltd.--— 20 

Pool Man, Ltd. __ 6 

Quaker Oats Company of Canada, Ltd. _Insert 

Ryerson Bookstore _- 13 

J. M. Schneider, Ltd._23 

Stafford Foods Ltd. _ 27 

Starkman Chemists, Ltd._20 

Stewart Oxygen Service (Canada), Ltd._23 

Sturgeon's, Ltd. _18 

Superior Propane, Ltd. __ Inside Back 

Tandy Leather Co. _13 

Tom Taylor Co., Ltd. _ 19 

Trampolines For Sale _„_ 12 

Wirco Wares _ 20 

G. R. Welch Co., Ltd_19 


30 





NATIONAL GROCERS COMPANY LIMITED 

Wholesale Distributors 

FRUITS - VEGETABLES - BUTTER - CHEESE - EGGS 
FROZEN FOODS - GENERAL GROCERY PRODUCTS 

26 BRANCHES IN ONTARIO 

National Groceries Company, Limited, operate 26 distributing warehouses through¬ 
out the Province of Ontario, ready at all times to serve the camping trade with 
prompt deliveries. 

^Belleville 
*Bramalea 
*Brantford 
^Chatham 
Cochrane 
Gore Bay 
*Hamilton 
Kapuskasing 


Warehouses located at: 

^Kingston 
*Kitchener 
^London 
New Liskeard 
*Niagara Falls 
*North Bay 
*Orillia 
*Oshawa 
*Ottawa 


Owen Sound 
^Pembroke 
*Peterborough 
*Samia 

*Sault Ste. Marie 
* Stratford 
*Sudbury 
*Timmins 
*Windsor 


L 


HEAD OFFICE: 32 Front St- West, Toronto 

Cash and Carry Warehouses at points marked * 















WHEREVER YOU ARE . . . 

Superior' 

PROPANE 
Serves you best 

'Superior' Propane gives you all the advantages of Gas no matter where you are 
throughout Canada's vacation and resort areas. You can make your camp, motel 
or resort as modern as tomorrow with 'Superior' Propane. 

Save time and money. Use 'Superior' Propane for all your camp operations. Cook¬ 
ing, Refrigeration, Water Heating, Incineration, Power Plants and Lighting. 


' Superior' 


PROPANE LTD 


1865 LESLIE STREET, DON MILLS 





1 



Since 1954 campers have been paid over one quarter 
of a million dollars from this plan. Benefits paid are 
increasing each year — proof of the need for your 
camp-guard plan. 

*A choice of plans for all organizational, church and private camps 
providing broad medical expense protection for each accident and each 
sickness at low cost group rates for both campers and staff members. 

Put camp-guard on your programme. 

Display this symbol and let parents know 
your camp is covered. This symbol of 
outstanding coverage assures them you 
take added interest in your camper’s wel¬ 
fare, by providing a camp-guard accident 
and sickness plan. 

Your local insurance agent will help you 
choose the right plan for your camp; or 
write our nearest office for full particulars. 





ACCIDENT mmd SICKNESS 

INSURANCE 


DISPLAY THIS SYMBOL 

STICKERS AVAILABLE FOR YOUR STATIONERY 




CONTINENTAL CASUALTY COMPANY 


VANCOUVER 5, 160 Bloor St. East 5 Place Ville Marie 

Suite 410, 1281 West Georgia St. TORONTO MONTREAL 2, QUEBEC 

MUtual 4-6381 924-4692 Victor 9-5303 

Suite 660, 1 Thornton Court, EDMONTON, GA. 4-7322 

202-209 Notre Dame, WINNIPEG 2, WH. 3-8723 Suite 403, 600 6th Avenue S.W., CALGARY, AM. 3-1937 








