
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 


L’ASSOCIATION OES CAMPS DU CANADA 


Fall Edition, 1973, Edition d'automne 













A 


table of contents-sommaire 


Vol. 26 NO. 1 

Fall Edition 1973 edition d'automne 

A MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT. 1 

by John Latimer 

MARYS. EDGAR . 2 

by Mary L. North way 

WHAT IS A (GOOD) COUNSELLOR?. 5 

WINTER WILDERNESSSURVIVAL . 6 

by Mors Kochanski 

CLASSIFIED ADS. 11 

ALTA R. KAHN . 12 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR . 13 

OUTDOOR COOKERY. 13 

by Helen Stewart 

CHIEF DAN GEORGE . 14 

by Helen Stewart 

EXTEND YOUR SEASON BY WINTERIZING . 15 

by Brian B/ackstock 

ALONG THE BOOKSHELF. 16 

TIPS . 16 

by Bruno Morawetz 


CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 
Suite 203, 102 Eglinton Ave. East 
Toronto, Ontario M4P 1E1, Canada 

President President 

John Latimer, 102 Eglinton Ave. E., 
Suite 203, Toronto, Ont. M4P 1E1 
Regional Vice-Presidents 

Vice-Presidents regionaux 

John Hasell, 1616 W. 7th Ave. 
Vancouver, B.C. 

Eileen Mayotte, 87 Coldwell Rd., 
Regina, Sask. 

Ron Johnstone, 805 Valetta St., 
London, Ont. N6H 2Z2 
Robert Lazanik, 5165 Sherbrooke St. W. 
Suite 316, Montreal 260, Que. 

Robert Cameron, Recreation & Parks Dept., 
City Hall, Main St., Moncton, N.B. 
Secretary Secretaire 

Jay Haddad, 102 Eglinton Ave. E., 

Suite 203, Toronto, Ont. M4P 1E1 
Treasurer Tresorier 

Bryan Graham, Coopers & Lybrand 
145 King St. West, Toronto M5H 1J8 
Past President L'ex-president 

Rev. David Hartry, 

Diocese of Nassau of the Bahamas 
P.O. Box N 107, Nassau, N.P., Bahamas 
Committee Presidents des 

Chairmen comites 

Canadian Camping Magazine 
Bill Henderson, 1162 Bay Street 
Toronto, Ont. M5S 2B6 
Standards 

Hank Roessingh, 540 — 49 Ave. S.W., 
Calgary 6, Alta. 

Canoe Schools 
Claude Cousineau, 

School of Physical Education & Recreation, 
University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ont. KIN 6N5 
Constitutional Task Force 
Stanley Wild, 740 Avenue Road, 
Toronto. Ont. M5P 2K2 
Publications 
Brian Blackstock, 

Mazinaw Lake Outdoor Education Centre, 
Cloyne, Ontario K0H 1K0 
Outdoor Education 
Robert Cameron, 

Recreation and Parks Dept., City Hall, 
Main St., Moncton, N.B. 

Editorial Committee Comite de redaction 
Bill Henderson (Chairman), 

Bob Attfield, Maurice Beaudreau, 

Brian Blackstock, Jean Darrach, Doug Dent, 
Eanswythe Flynn, Bryan Graham, 
Bruno Morawetz, Jocelyn Palm, 

Ann Prewitt, Hank Roessingh, 

Paul Rushton, Kirk Wipper 


CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 


Subscription rates: $4-1 year, $10-3 years 
(Distributed free to members) 

$1.25 per single copy 

Editor editrice 

Helen E. Stewart 
Apt. 510, 240 Markland Drive, 
Etobicoke, Ontario M9C 1R3 
(416) 621-3791 

National president de la 

Advertising Chairman publicite nationale 
Doug Dent, 145 Lincoln Road, 
Waterloo, Ontario 


REPRODUCTION. IN ANY FORM. OF 
MATERIAL IN 'CANADIAN CAMPING 1 ' 
MUST HAVE WRITTEN PERMISSION OF 
THE CANADIAN CAMPING 
ASSOC I ATION 


HAVE YOU HEARD? DO YOU KNOW? 
by Helen Stewart 

Cover 


PROVINCIAL BUREAUX 

OFFICES PROVINCIAUX 


B.C. Camping Association 
2735 E. Hastings St., Vancouver, B.C. 
Grant McKeen, President) 

Alberta Camping Association 
2402 - 27 St. S.W., Calgary, Alta. T3E 2G3 
(Jan James, President) 

Saskatchewan Camping Association 
P.O. Box 823, Regina, Sask. 
(Michael Pezderic, President) 

Manitoba Camping Association 
Suite 217, 267 Edmonton Street, 
Winnipeg, Man. 

(Gordon Stewart, President) 

Ontario Camping Association 
102 Eglinton Ave. E., Suite 203, 
Toronto, Ont. M4P 1E1 
(Jack Pearse, President) 


Outside Back Cover 


Couverture 


L'association des camps du Quebec 
and 

Quebec Camping Association 
952 Cherrier St., Montreal, Quebec 
(Rev. Pere Rosaire Corbin, president) 
English section 

2233 Belgrave Ave., Montreal 261, Quebec 
(Zave Ettinger, President) 

Section franQaise 

952 rue Cherrier, Montreal, Quebec 
(Robert Maisonneuve, president) 

Nova Scotia Camping Association 
55 Purcell's Cove Road, Halifax, N.S. 
(Rev. David Boston, President) 

New Brunswick Camping Association 
Box 373, Fredericton, N.B. 

(Tim Easley, President) 

Newfoundland & Labrador 
Camp ing A ssocia tion 
Box 4188, St. John's, Nfld. 

(Frank Jennings, President) 


Photo Courtesy Camp Ponacka 


A 

A 


















If 



A Message from the President 
Message du President 



The Editor — probably with good reason — has said, "Be brief." 
/ hope, therefore, the following information will be of interest to 
our membership. 

If the Constitution is ratified in the near future, there will be 
increased Board representation from every province, as well as a 
representative of French-speaking Canadian camps. In addition, a 
new Vice-President of C.C.A. will be elected by January 31st, 1974. 

The Publications Committee will soon be issuing a greatly in¬ 
creased list of books available through C.C.A. 

National Camping Day will not be held again until 1976. 

A new Code of Ethics will soon be developed and distributed 
to C.C.A. camps. 

A Standards Workshop highlighting Day Camping will be held 
for two days this winter. 

Plans are well under way for a conference on Outdoor Education 
and Camping to be held next April. This will tie in with a conference 
to establish Nature Lore schools and programmes across Canada. 
Lome Browne is chairing this conference. 

The magazine has had problems . . . problems related to adver¬ 
tising costs. We are, though, beginning to see the light and with 
reorganization, headed by Doug Dent, / expect we will soon be 
out of the woods. However, we earnestly seek the support of every 
member in Canada to endeavour to solicit ads which will bring 
revenue to our magazine, thereby assisting us to operate at a reduced 
loss. Please contact Doug. 

As with everything else, fees must rise. The C.C.A. is generously 
supported by Recreation Canada for leadership training, but the 
office expenditures and administration, as well as costs for the 
magazine, must be borne by our membership. For several years this 
has been around the $3000.00 figure, but it is now quite unrealistic. 

The Canoeing Schools continue to provide tremendous leadership 
in canoeing in Canada. Successful schools were held this year in 
Ottawa, New Brunswick and Lake of the Woods. The new "Western" 
school will be held in Saskatchewan or Alberta next June. 

We are all naturally fed-up with the countless forms requesting 
statistics, but when they come from your Provincial or National 
Camping Associations, please take time to complete them as soon 
as possible. We desperately need information on what's happening 
in Camping across the country. 

There has been great growth in not only the C.C.A., but particu¬ 
larly the Provincial Associations. We are being recognized more and 
more as the official voice of organized Camping in Canada. There 
are more "open doors" in Ottawa and in turn several provinces have 
indicated much stronger and better relationships with their own 
governments. The number of campers continues to increase, although 
we still have the big problem of "selling our product" to the general 
public. It is a ceaseless task, but as we become more professional we 
cannot let down. Organized camping is something we should be 
selling and it needs the commitment of every leader in Canada who 
is interested in working with children. 


La redacteur a dit — probablement a bon droit — "soyez bref!" 
J'espere done que les renseignements suivants s'avereront interessants 
pour nos membres. 

Si la Constitution sera ratifiee dans le proche avenir, un plus 
grand nombre de delegues represented chaque province dans le futur 
aupres du Conseil Administratif et il y aura meme nouvelle repre¬ 
sentation des camps francophones canadiens. De plus, un nouveau 
Vice-President du I'A.C.C. sera elu d'ici le 31 janvier, 1974. 

Le Comite Publicitaire emettra bientot une listedu grand nombre 
de livres disponibles chez I'A.C.C. 

Le jour national du camping ne sera plus observe jusqu'a 1976. 

Un nouveau Code Moral sera mis en valeur bientot et distribue 
aux camps de I'A.C.C. 

Un cours standard sur le camping journalier sera tenu pendant 
deux journees cet hiver. 

Les plans sont en train d'etre arretes pour la conference sur 
I'education de plain air et le camping, envisagee en avril prochain. 
Ceci sera relie a la conference sur I'etablissement de programmes et 
cours traitant des sciences naturelles a travers le Canada. Lome 
Browne est le President de cette conference. 

Notre revue a eu ses difficultes — difficultes relatives aux frais de 
la publicite. Cependant nous sommes a meme de nous tirer d'affaire 
et suite a la reorganization dirigee par Doug Dent, j'espere que dore- 
navant tout s'arrangera. Or, nous devons demander le soutien de 
tous nos membres au Canada, pour essayer de nous procurer des 
annonces publicitaires, agin d'augmenter les revenus de notre revue, 
de fagon a nous permettre d'operer a frais reduits. Priere de vous 
adresser a Doug. 

Comme tout autre, les honoraires doivent remonter. L'A.C.C. 
est genereusement soutenue par Recreation Canada dans la forma¬ 
tion des moniteurs, mais les frais administratifs et du bureau, ainsi 
que les couts de notre revue doivent etre defrayes par nos membres. 
Dans le passe cette comme se chiffrait a $3000.00 environ, mais a 
present ce montant n'est pas suffisant. 

Les cours de canoe continuent a donner des resultats excellents. 
Des cours tres reussis ont ete tenus cette annee a Ottawa, au Nou¬ 
veau Brunswick et au Lac des Forets (Lake of the Woods). Le 
nouveau cours d'entrainement ''du West'' sera tenu a Saskatchewan 
ou a I'Alberta en juin prochain. 

Nous en avons tous assez des formules innombrables qu'on nous 
demande de remplir sans cesse, mais lorsque ces dernieres vous 
proviennent de votre Association Provinciale ou Nationale du 
Camping, vous etes pries de bien vouloir vous empresser de les 
completer aussitot que possible. Nous avons tres grand besoin de 
toute information relative au camping a travers le pays. 

L'A.C.C. et les Associations Provinciates ont joui d'une forte 
croissance. On nous reconnalt de plus-en-plus comme etant la voix 
officielle du camping organise au Canada. Ottawa nous prete son 
attention, et de leur cote, plusieures organisations provinciales nous 
ont indique des relations ameliorees avec leur gouvernement. Le 
nombre des campeurs augmente toujours, tandis que nous con- 
tinuons d'orienter le public. C'est une tache interminable, mais au 
fur et a mesure que nos techniques deviennent plus professionnelles 
nous ne pouvons relacher nos efforts. Nous devons continuer de 
populariser le camping organise et cette fin exige I'engagement de 
tous ceux voues a I'oeuvre de la jeunesse. 


The Canadian Camping Association is indebted to The NEATHERN Trust 
for its support of “Canadian Camping” 
through a substantial donation to assist in the publication of this issue. 






Photo courtesy The North Bay Nugget 


2 







11 lari' cf C ">dgar 

1889-1973 


In 1922 the news spread that a young Canadian was 
starting a girls’ camp in “the far northland” on Lake 
Bernard by her home town of Sundridge. My parents 
decided I should go. I objected. “Camps don’t let you do 
what you want. You have to do what they say.” However, 
I agreed to meet this woman with my mother at tea. “But 
I’ll only stay five minutes because I’m not going to her 
silly camp.” 

So, on an April afternoon I met Mary Edgar. In a few 
minutes I was telling her my innermost interests-the 
Knights’ club we had founded, my secret love of poetry 
and the talents of my Boston Bull. Miss Edgar appeared to 
be enthralled. She said, “Well, we won’t have Knights at 
camp but we will have Indians. Perhaps you would help me 
organize the tribes.” (Would I ever!) She described how she 
loved poetry and said that I could write some myself for 
the Scroll which would be read out in Council Ring, and 
finally she invited the snorting bull dog to be a camper too. 
Thus began an association with Miss Edgar that lasted over 
fifty years. 

Beneath Miss Edgar’s many achievements, I believe her 
most outstanding quality was that the same empathetic 
interest as she showed in me she had for every child (and 
adult too). How the wants, talents, assets of each could 
find expression at camp was her great goal. The unique 
programme she evolved at Glen Bernard (which deserves an 
article in itself) grew out of this concern. Long before 
psychologists were expounding “individual differences”, 
Mary S. made them the keystone of her philosophy and the 
crux of her practices. Each camper was unique and each 
felt “a somebody” in being able to be herself. 


‘T urn my dreams to noble action 
Ministries of love. 

(M.S.E. Camp Hymn, 1924) 

She wrote: 

“Is it not a marvellous thing 

That all the long years through 
Since the world’s beginning 

There never was a You. (t) 

And Thank-You God because I’m Me, - 

A Person, quite unique, and free.” (*) 

Unlike many camps, Glen Bernard was located in the 
founder’s own community. Mary Edgar and her sisters 
Margaret (Gilchrist), Anne and Betty (McTavish) were born 
and raised in Sundridge. Their parents, Joseph and Mary, 
had settled there in 1885 before the railway reached so far 
north. They ran the General Store. Her father went into 
lumbering and later became the M.P.P. for the District of 
Parry Sound. The camp had a real life in the community. 
In early years, the village ice cream man brought his wares 
in a launch to the camp bay and everyone could go out in 
canoes and buy a sundae from him. We went to the annual 
community picnic at Hartvelt (yes, that really was its 
name!) and ate home-made meats, pickles, salads, pies and 
cakes off the groaning trestle tables. We listened to the 
local folk sing, recite, preach, and we played games with 
their children. Later we entertained them at the camp. 

Miss Edgar knew everyone in the village and the out¬ 
lying farms. She knew their needs. Often we were taken to 
visit and to see poverty-stricken homes in the back conces¬ 
sions and became very aware of “counting our blessings”. 
No camper’s clothing was discarded. It was placed in big 
boxes at the end of camp. Mrs. Edgar had it repaired and 
distributed to children of the right size. No waste was 
allowed. At Christmas, we each had a name of a local child 



Photo courtesy Mary L. North way 


(f) Under Open Skies, Clarke, Irwin, 1955. 

(*) Canadian Camping Magazine, Summer 1973. 


“In 1922 we came to G.B.C. ” 

Mary S. Edgar and some of her campers, 
1922. 


3 












for whom we made up an appropriate Christmas stocking. 
What a day it was when we took these to the Gilchrist’s 
home where they were packed and sent away to Sundridge. 

In the early years, camp supplies were purchased from 
the local farmers. We sometimes picked their berries our¬ 
selves. Fruit and vegetables in season came from nearby 
fields. Milk was acquired from a neighbour. After a few 
years, health authorities said there must be pasteurized 
milk. Miss Edgar often told of breaking this news to the 
local fanner. His reply was, “Ain’t my pastures as good as 
any.” Surprisingly, although milk was prohibited, cream 
continued to come from the farmer for several years. Per¬ 
haps its thickness was thought to kill the possible germs. 

This involvement with the community remained through¬ 
out Miss Edgar’s life. On her retirement from camp, she and 
her sister Anne acquired a cottage on the edge of the village. 
To this campers often came for an evening of stories and 
“eats”; many, many old campers dropped in as they were 
passing along Highway 11 to the farther northland. Vil¬ 
lagers, all of whom were known by name, called. An award 
of which Miss Edgar was justly proud was being made 
Honorary Reeve of Strong, Joly Township and Sundridge 
in 1967. As a centennial project she bought a piece of land 
down the lake “High Rock” and had it made into a Park 
for the people of Sundridge “because the cottagers have 
taken all the lakeshore and the village people have no camp¬ 
site of their own.” She loved her home community. Her 
camp contributed much to it and it contributed much to 
her camp. In the last few years she completed a manuscript 
on the family’s early days in Sundridge, the adventures of 
her sisters and herself as children, under the working title 
Turn of the Century 1 for Suzanne Marie. It concludes with a 
description of the church bells ringing to herald the 
twentieth century—with its future of great hope and peace. 
This was almost completed. It is hoped that it still may be 
published. 

Beyond her camp and community, Mary Edgar’s vital 
personality penetrated into the life of Canada. Her ex¬ 
periences with the Y.M.C.A., the C.G.I.T., The Guides, her 
association with other Ontario camp directors Taylor 
Statten, Ernie Chapman, Ferna Halliday, Mary Hamilton 
and her participation in conferences of the American Camp¬ 
ing Association from 1923 on, made her the right person to 
initiate and become first editor of the Canadian Camping 
Bulletin (February' 1949, and remained such until April 
1953. The Bulletin has evolved into this Magazine.) The 
contents were what she wrote herself or could inveigle 
people to produce by inviting them in to tea. Realizing that 
the written word was the best means of coordinating the 
diversity of Canada, she put much effort into editing the 
Bulletin. Recently she furthered this by establishing a trust 
fund for publications of the Canadian Camping Association. 
Writing and editing and speaking were her most natural 
contributions to Canadian Camping. She also filled roles on 
the executive and as President of the Ontario Camping 
Association. However, being a bit impatient with the slow 
progress of committees and finding constitutions and annual 
reports deadly dull, she accepted such positions more as 
duties than as honours. She was made Honorary President 
of the Canadian Camping Association in April 1960, and 
she conveyed her vision of Canadian camping as a national 
enterprise to all who came within her ken. Her last public 


address was, appropriately, at the National Camp Directors 
and Camping Standards Workshop at Geneva Park last 
February. She said, “Many of you have come from far 
distant parts of our country and it is a special privilege for 
me to see you and to realize what the Canadian Camping 
Association has come to mean in this country. . . I don’t 
know whether you realize how fortunate you are in just 
having the Canadian Camping Association.” She concluded 
by reading three of her own poems and at the end said, “I 
share with you my very favourite quotation: 

To the worker who can dream 
And the dreamer who can work, 

Life surrenders all things. ” 

There was a standing ovation. That was Mary S. Edgar. 

There is much more that could be said. Miss Edgar as 
writer her books Woodsmoke and Candlelight, Under Open 
Skies and her participation in the Canadian Authors 
Association. • Miss Edgar as superb story teller. • Her wealth 
of experience as world traveller; she visited Japan for four 
months in 1920. • Her friendship with Indians-Pauline 
Johnson was her great idol she brought the best of their 
traditions into her camp and used them with respect. • Her 
involvement in service clubs and church and other groups. 
(We could hardly visit her without buying an apron, or a 
pot holder or a bridge tally she had made to raise funds for 
some good cause.) • Her interest in her old school, Havergal, 
of which she was an honorary trustee. • Her pleasures, as an 
artist in oils in which, on occasion, she substituted shoe 
polish when the white paint ran out! • Her skill as a superb 
hostess at parties which always had a magic touch and 
games with prizes for all. • Her life as a family person with 
tremendous interest in her ever-increasing number of grand 
nephews and nieces. She was so pleased that her nephew 
and his wife, the John Gilchrists, took over her Glen Bernard 
in 1955. She was happy to celebrate its fiftieth year and 
ecstatic with the party John and Barb gave for her many 
campers, friends, relatives and camping associates on the 
exciting occasion of her 80th birthday. Mary Edgar lived 
life to the full and found it good. 

In the last years, my most frequent contacts with Miss 
Edgar were about her manuscripts. She would phone and 
say, “It’s Mary Edgar speaking. I have just finished my 
stories about our lives as children. Would you read them 
and tell me what you think?” In August, when I last saw 
her at her cottage in Sundridge, she said, “I have had a little 
stroke in my thumb. You see, I wore it out with all my 
writing.” Then she added, “but I can’t make it write now.” 

I suggested that in the fall 1 would bring in a tape recorder 
and take down what she had to say. This cheered her up. 
Well, the tape recorder will not be used. But much that is 
already written must come out. This is a challenge to the 
Canadian Camping Association. 

It was proper that the Glen Bernard camp hymn Mary 
Edgar wrote in 1924 was sung at the funeral. It is appro¬ 
priate that she is buried at Sundridge near the lake around 
which were her home, her community and her camp. From 
that lake, from the hills, from the sky, softly sounds: 

“A 11 is well 
Safely rest 
God is nigh. ” 

Mary L. Northway 


4 


WhSLt 

is sl (Good) 

Counsellor? 


Somewhere between adolescence and adulthood there occurs in 
human development an age which is physically and psychologically 
impossible. It is that unfathomable stage known as the camp coun¬ 
sellor, a creature undefined by psychologists, misunderstood by 
camp directors, worshipped by campers, either admired or doubted 
by parents, and unheard of by the rest of society. 

A camp counsellor is a rare combination of doctor, lawyer, 
Indian and chief. He is a competent child psychologist with his 
sophomore text-book as proof. He is an underpaid babysitter with 
neither television nor refrigerator. He is a strict disciplinarian with 
a twinkle in his eye, a minister to all faiths with questions about 
his own. He is a referee, coach, teacher and advisor. He is the 
example of manhood in wornout tennis shoes, a sweat shirt two 
sizes too large and a hat two sizes too small. He is a humorist in a 
crisis, a doctor in an emergency, a song leader and entertainer. He 
is an idol with his head in a cloud of woodsmoke and his feet in 
the mud. He is a comforter in a leaky tent on a cold night and a 
pal who has just loaned someone his last pair of dry socks. He is a 
teacher of the out-of-doors, knee-deep in poison ivy. 

A counsellor dislikes reveille, waiting in line, inspection and 
rainy days. He is fond of sunbathing, water-skiing, teaching new 
games, nights off and days off. He is handy for patching up broken 
friendships, bloody noses and torn jeans. Good at locating lost 
bathing suits, fixing paths, and running from bats; poor at crawling 
out of bed on rainy or other mornings, remembering the salt and 
getting to bed early. 

A counsellor is a friendly guide in the middle of a cold, dark 
wet night on the windy trail to the cabin or overnight site. He is a 
dynamo on a night off and exhausted the next day but recuperated 
in time for the next night off. 


J Reflections for Parents, Teachers, 
H Camp Directors and Staff 

j) If a child lives with criticism, 

^ he learns to condemn, 
h If a child lives with hostility, 
y he learns to fight. 

•) If a child lives with pity, 

J he learns to feel sorry for himself, 
mlf a child lives with jealousy. 


he learns to hate. 


x If a child lives with ENCOURAGEMENT, 
K he learns to be confident. 

& If a child lives with PRAISE, 

J he learns to be appreciative. 
f) If a child lives with ACCEPTANCE, 
fa he learns to love, 
t If a child lives with RECOGNITION, 
i he learns to have a goal. 

J If a child lives with FAIRNESS, 
p< he learns justice. 

If a child lives with HONESTY, 

| he learns what truth is. 
f- If a child lives with FRIENDLINESS, 
p 1 he learns that the world is a nice 
place in which to live. 

Whatever our campers live with, 
that will be our contribution to 


v- their total experience. 

^ — Anonymous ^ 




A GRACE 

To the Creator of the earth , the sea 
and the sky , 

who looked upon all that was made 
and pronounced it good .... 

For the good land in which we live , 
the food on our tables , 
and our friendship around them . . . 


We give thanks , together. 


—John G. Edwards 
Youth Resources 
Vancouver, B.C. 


tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt+tttt 


Who but he can cure homesickness, air out a wet bed, play 16 
games of pickup sticks in succession, be a monster at a house of 
horrors, carry two packs, speak Pig Latin in French, cook on a 
hike, sing 48 camp songs every night and eat four helpings of 
Sunday dinner? 

A counsellor is expected to repair 10 years of damage to Tommy 
in 10 days, make Jerry into a man, rehabilitate Paul, allow John to 
be an individual and help Peter adjust to the group. He is expected 
to lead the most prized possessions of 12 adults much older than 
he. He is expected to lead them in fun and adventure . . . even 
when his head aches; to teach them to live in the out-of-doors . . . 
even though he spends nine months a year in Moncton, Ottawa or 
in Vancouver; to teach indigenous activities . . . when he can’t 
even spell the word; to guide youngsters in social adjustment . . . 
when he hasn’t even reached legal age; to ensure safety and health . 

. . with a sunburned nose, a Bandaid on his thumb and a blister on 
his heel 

For all this, he is paid enough to buy the second text in 
Psychology, some aspirin, some new socks, pay his tuck bill and 
live on nights off. You wonder how he can stand the pace and the 
pressure. You wonder if he really knows how much he is worth. 
And somehow, you realize you can never pay him enough when, as 
he leaves at the end of August, he waves goodbye and says* “see 
ya next year!” 

—Anonymous— 


5 


< Krug's i 


WINTER WILDERNESS SURVIVAL 

by Mors Kochanski 

Freelance Instructor in Survival and Wilderness Living 


More people than ever before are becoming interested in 
winter camping. As a result, more and more inexperienced 
people, unwittingly or otherwise, are entering into an 
environment which has a very stern and exacting code. 

Those individuals, untaught and unprepared in wilder¬ 
ness ways, should have little trouble surviving in the summer 
bush as long as panic is controlled, because a person of 
average health can last four days without water and ten 
times longer with unlimited drinking water. It is the cold 
that makes the difference because, in general, the cold may 
allow an hour of survival for each day of survival in the 
summer. Before venturing forth into the winter bush you 
must know the appropriate survival techniques and be 
adequately prepared. “Prepared” means carrying matches 
and an axe with a handle at least 28 inches long and a head 
at least 3 lbs. in weight. If you are reasonably clothed, you 
are ready to deal with an emergency as severe as falling 
through the ice at 30° below zero. In this article, fire making 
and shelter building will be described in considerable detail, 
a shortcoming commonly found in most articles on 
winter survival. 

FIRE MAKING 

The moment one realizes he is lost or will be detained in 
the cold, a fire takes first priority. After an accident or air¬ 
plane crash, where the onset of shock can be expected, cold 
can stiffen the body and hands very fast. Building a fire to 
keep warm is much more logical than building one to thaw 
out. Statistics indicate a surprising number of people have 
perished from exposure because cold hands made the open¬ 
ing of the match container an impossibility. BUT carrying 
matches is not sufficient . . . their use must be mastered and 
this means practice. Indeed, the information in this article 
is of little value if untried. A false confidence will prove 
dangerous. 

Generally, it is not difficult to find kindling in the winter. 
The thin, dead twigs found on most trees are quite dry. 
Gather a large handful and squeeze as tightly as possible 
into a compact bundle. This bundle can be laid down and 
lit, as illustrated in Figure 1, or, in more adverse situations, 
the bundle can be held inside a coat and protected by the 
body until it is well lit. When laying it on the ground, 
manipulate it so as to get the maximum effect of the 
match flame. 



If there is snow on the ground prepare a platform first 
by laying down a few larger sticks or a piece of bark. As 
soon as the finer kindling is alight, place a handful of 
pencil-thick twigs on the flame and gradually add larger 
material. If the twigs seem at all dampish use two or three 
matches at once. 

If time and opportunity allow, the fire should be made 
under a fallen tree that is suspended above the ground. The 
log becomes a source of fuel and, when it burns through, 
the free end can be added to the fire. 

Whenever possible, tinder is used to augment the power 
of the match flame. One can use grass, old man’s beard, 
birch bark, the inner papery bark of old dead black poplar 
or pine needles that have turned slightly red in colour. In 
fact, pine needles are much like birch bark in combustibility 
in that the resin in them does not allow moisture to pene¬ 
trate the needles. Soaking wet needles can be shaken 
thoroughly dry. and. if held in a fairly tight bundle, will 
ignite with some coaxing. Practice is mandatory to acquire 
the skill of using pine needles as kindling or tinder. 

With varying degrees of effort one can get by without an 
axe , but without one the word “survival” may be rightly 
used. With such equipment the situation is eased and is 
even more so if a knife is carried. Far less time and effort is 
required to gather fuel and build a shelter so an axe can 
significantly change the odds in your favour. For example, 
if you broke through ice at 30° below zero, you could chop 
kindling and firewood and have a fire going before the 
effects of wet and cold reached a dangerous point. 

With an axe and knife, you can produce tinder and 
kindling without the necessity of looking for it. A tree, 
six inches or so in diameter, is chopped down and cut into 
sections, two of which should be a foot and a half long and 
relatively free of knots. The remaining sections can be of 
arm span length, for convenience of handling. Chopping 
firewood into stove-wood lengths is an unnecessary expendi¬ 
ture of energy. The foot long sticks are slit into boards one 
half inch or less thick and two or three inches wide. Thin 
long shavings are cut with a sharp knife to produce a “fuzz- 
stick” as illustrated in Figure 2. At the end of each cut, 
bend the shavings away from the stick by twisting the knife 
outward. 



Make at least six fuzz-sticks and stack them on a section 
of log as illustrated in Figure 3. The teepee method is not 
recommended as it is not very stable and it does not provide 
as much protection for the match flame. 


6 








Fig. 3 


THE REFLECTOR 

For the most warmth a fire has to be built in a sheltered 
area against some object such as a bank, rock, or a wall of 
logs to direct the heat in one direction. If an axe is available 
then the wall of logs, known as a “reflector”, can be easily 
constructed. 

A fire in an open area has radiant heat emanating in all 
directions. With a reflector, a considerable portion of this 
radiant heat can be reflected in one direction , thereby 
utilizing the fuel more efficiently. 

The reflector about to be described has been evolved 
through considerable use and experience. Built properly, it 
is somewhat like a large fireplace in respect to the amount 
of heat and light it throws. 

If it is not very cold, the reflector is built of green logs 
so that it lasts longer. A commonly available slow-burning 
green wood is black poplar (Populus balsamifera). Logs, 10 
to 12 inches in diameter, should last the entire night. The 
colder the weather, the more massive the reflector should 
be. If the weather is very cold, then the reflector may be 
built of dry logs, which become a source of fuel themselves 
and their burning surfaces throw off a rather intense heat. 
This type of reflector has to be rebuilt every four to 
six hours. 

If very large logs are used, a reflector three logs high is 

adequate. With smaller logs, a reflector four logs high is 

more satisfactory in performance. Figure 4 illustrates the 
way the reflector is built. 

A simple measure for the length of log used is the arm 
span from fingertip to fingertip. For more stability the logs 
may be flattened, which should be done before the tree is 

cut into sections. With the three log reflector, this is 

generally not necessary as the brace log will adequately hold 
these logs in place by sheer weight. 

The reflector wall is built vertically. Note that the fire is 
built against the reflector for maximum effect. 



The reflector must be built parallel to the wind. The 
wind direction may vary 15 degrees or so either way, but it 
must blow across the face of the reflector to properly carry 
away the smoke and sparks. It is not the heated air that 
keeps you warm; instead it is the heat radiated from the 
fire, in the same way you feel the heat of the sun. 


Once a good fire is started, any fuel, be it damp, inferior, 
or green, will burn fairly well if at least three logs are 
stacked on the fire in close contact with each other. In this 
way, a reflective action and heat concentration is created 
between the logs and, as long as they are kept in close con¬ 
tact, the greenest of logs will burn. 

The best cooking and heating wood is willow (Salix 
species), but, unfortunately, it is seldom found in any large 
diameter and, as such, is poor for stoking a long burning 
fire. The next best wood is white poplar (Populus trem- 
bluoides) which can grow very large and burns well, dry or 
green, if treated as outlined earlier. 

It is advisable to avoid using swamp or black spruce 
(Picea mariana) as fuel. It produces a penetrating, acrid 
smoke, giving clothing and equipment a very strong smoky 
smell. It irritates the eyes and lungs. It is insidious in the 
way it throws out sparks, often to a distance of 10 feet or 
more. This is a very real hazard since it may mean the loss 
of clothing or equipment, besides the discomfort of 
being burned. 

On occasion other conifers may exhibit the same spark 
throwing tendency that black spruce displays. If this ends 
up in the reflector fire, one expedient is to put other logs 
on top of it or rearrange the logs on the fire so that the 
offending log is buried. 

If at all possible, stockpile fuel during daylight. A fire of 
this nature uses a surprising amount of fuel. A rough rule is 
to collect what one thinks should be adequate, then double, 
or better still, triple the amount and it may last the night. 
Before retiring, the kindling for the next fire should be pre¬ 
pared and stored in a dry place. 

SELECTION OF SITE 

When the prospect of staying overnight is real, look 
around to appraise the area as to its suitability. This is a 
point often neglected. With very little effort a very adequate 
place can often be found. A perfect site would fulfill the 
following points: 

1. Safety: Are there trees that may fall? rocks that may 
roll? any possibility of an avalanche? Floods, poison ivy, 
ticks and snakes may be of concern to you in the sum¬ 
mer. Muskeg should be avoided because it provides a 
very poor base for fire building and presents the danger 
of ground fire. 

2. Availability of good fuel in adequate amounts. 

3. Availability Of shelter building materials, the most com¬ 
mon being spruce boughs and poles. 

4. Natural protection: Heavy growths of trees; Protected 
valleys with a southerly exposure. 

5. Visibility to searchers, if applicable: On lake shore or 
river bank or near big clearings. 

6. Availability of game, generally rabbit runs. 

7. Availability of natural foods: Some areas may have an 
astonishing amount of useful edible materials and others 
may be as astonishingly barren. 

8. Water: With snow on the ground, this is more of a con¬ 
venience rather than a necessity. In summer, this would 
be second only to safety. 

It would be very unusual, of course, to find all of these 
features in one site. However, it is useful to know what to 
look for and, hopefully, a site satisfying the first three 
points is easily found. 


7 








SHELTER 

A good shelter will break the wind and trap the radiant 
heat from the fire to provide a reasonably warm, dry area 
in which to work, rest, and sleep. 

The ground upon which the shelter is to be built should 
be fairly level and as free from snow as possible. If there is 
any slope at all, it should be down towards the fire, but 
only gradual so that, if you are sleeping parallel to the fire, 
you will not roll into it. Generally, good sites can be found 
near the bases of tall spruces with large overhanging boughs, 
which offer considerable protection from above. 

In conjunction with the reflector fire, one of the more 
tried and favoured shelters is the simple, open-fronted 
lean-to. Both the lean-to and the reflector are oriented 
parallel to the wind. See Figure 5. The ridge pole of the 
lean-to, as a general rule, is one large pace from the face of 
the reflector. In very cold weather this could be brought in 
a foot or so closer according to need. 



sound so as to easily bear the weight of the poles, boughs 
and banked snow used in building the shelter. The ridge 
pole can be supported between two standing trees, two 
tripods or a tree and a tripod. The last mentioned is the 
favoured method as the tree provides stability and the 
tripod allows for ease in rearranging the shelter, should 
there be any considerable wind shift after the shelter is 
built. For the convenience of handling and providing a 
convenient height to work and live under, the ridge pole is 
erected shoulder high above the ground. Sound poles are 
selected to make the tripod. To determine the point at 
which the lashing should be placed, stand one of the poles 
upright then grasp it as high as possible. This is where the 
tripod is lashed. The legs of the tripod are spread wide 
enough apart so that the ridge pole placed on it comes down 
to shoulder height. The other end of the ridge pole can be 
lashed or propped up with a stick. In either case, the ridge 
pole is on the same side of the tree as the back of the 
shelter. If no lashing material is available, a serviceable cord 
can be twisted from the grass found near the bases of 
smaller spruces. 

Next arc the poles at the back of the lean-to. Dry poles 
can be gathered without the use of an axe. They are limbed 
by being run back and forth between two closely spaced 
trees. These are leaned against the ridgepole at an angle of 
about 45°. When using boughs, the poles are spaced at 
roughly eight inch intervals. The sides are also closed, as 
shown in Figure 6. 



Ht LAYER OF BOUGHS 

Fig. 6 


Finally, the boughs are laid on. A layer of about six 
inches is required so that it is thick enough to support the 
snow banked on it and to prevent the heat of the fire from 
penetrating, thus melting the snow. 

The first layer of boughs is composed of the biggest 
boughs available, set down stem first. These boughs assist in 
holding up the smaller boughs that are laid on next. The 
remaining boughs are now laid on, stems up and undersides 
up, because experience has shown that this provides the 
maximum shedding effect. 


THE BED 

Spruce boughs can be used to make a passable bed. A 
layer, three inches in thickness, is sufficient when a sleeping 
bag is available. A six inch layer of boughs would be more 
appropriate when one has no such equipment. The layer of 
boughs provides a comfortable area in which to lie down 
and offers protection from the natural cold and damp of the 
ground. The bed need not be made full length since only 
the area from the head to the hips needs all the insulation. 
The legs require only enough boughs to keep them from 
contacting the ground. 

In very cold weather, the boughs can become very 
brittle and should be heated so that the needles do not 
break off. The bough bed, like the shelter, can be made 
without an axe. 

The boughs are laid down in a herring-bone fashion with 
the tips crossing at least six inches or so from the ends. The 
boughs are laid down the same way they came off the tree, 
as close examination will reveal this to be the most efficient 
way of utilizing the bough for springiness. The stems arc 
placed to the outside where they are least apt to be laid 
upon, as shown in Figure 7. 



Fig. 7 

For the first two or so layers, the coarser boughs found 
at the bottom of spruces can be used. The stems should be 
no more than a thumb’s thickness. If the stems are overly 
long, they add little to the comfort of the bed and should 
be broken off. The last two layers should be no thicker at 
the stem than the little finger. Finally, the smaller, shorter 
branches of pencil thickness are incorporated into the bed 
by jamming in the ends wherever needed, thus giving the 
maximum springiness. Usually the stems at the edges will 


8 




r 


curve upwards. If small logs are laid on the edges to hold 
these stems down, it will be noticed that the centre of the 
bed rises slightly, again for a little added springiness. Also 
the log nearest the fire prevents you from unconsciously 
rolling into the fire while you sleep. 

FOOD 

During the summer, in the greater part of wilderness 
Canada, one can find numerous edible plants and berries 
but their availability is drastically reduced in the winter 
time. However, there are a few standbys, meager as they 
are, that could be very significant in alleviating hunger 
pangs and extending survival time. 

Most worthy of mention are rose hips (Rosaceae species), 
the fleshy receptacles of the rather stony seeds of certain 
types of roses. There is no way that these can be mistaken 
for any other plant. These rose hips, which have considerable 
food value, can be eaten directly (which is advisable) or 
collected and perhaps boiled in water to make a sort of 
“rose hip” soup. 

The next most useful and easiest to find are the berries 
of the Wolf or Silver Willow (Elaeagnus commutata). This 
is a shrub or small tree that is easily recognized by its 
silvery appearance. The silvery edible fruit contains a bead¬ 
like stone. The edible fruit which is dry, mealy and insipid 
may take a short while to get used to. 

Another plant whose berries often remain attached to it 
throughout the winter is the low bush cranberry (Viburnum 
edule). The berries are very tart, but refreshing. 

There are other berries that may be utilized in the win¬ 
ter; these have to be looked for under the snow and may, at 
times, require some luck to find easily. 

The easiest to find, because it is so common, is bear- 
berry, sometimes known as kinnikinnick (Arctostaphylos 
uva-ursi). The berry is somewhat mealy and flavourless. 
Very often, in close association with bearberry, is a bog 
cranberry that prefers dry bogs and coniferous forest and 
has the Latin name Vaccinium vitis-idea. When stepped 
upon the berry stains the snow a bright red. 

While looking for berries under the snow, one should 
take every opportunity to gather the two varieties of Rein¬ 
deer moss, Cladonia rangifera and Cladonia alpestris, as well 
as the lemon lichen (Peltigera aphthosa). The whole plant 
of the reindeer mosses is used while only the part with the 
white under edges of the lemon lichen is used. These are 
boiled and the water changed, at least three times, other¬ 
wise these lichens are strongly purgative. 

SNARING RABBITS 

With little or no plant food available, one would have to 
resort to the catching of game. 

The following is one method of snaring rabbits with brass 
snare wire. The snare wire could be replaced with string or 
cord made stiff with saliva. 

To make the snare loop, measure out a length of wire the 
length of one’s hatband (by wrapping around the head). The 
wire is then doubled because a single strand is easily broken 
by a rabbit. About the last inch and a half of wire make a 
small eye, the diameter of a pencil. Confine the wrapping 
to within a quarter inch of the eye. The reason for this is 
that if the wrapping is carried down, the noose formed will 
not close tightly enough to choke the rabbit. The noose is 


made about four and a half inches in diameter, or the 
diameter of a half pound tobacco tin. If the loop is too 
large, the rabbit will put his forepaws through the noose 
and be caught by the waist, invariably breaking the wire by 
flexing it. If the noose is too small, the rabbit will push 
it aside. 



The snare is now attached to a drag which is a light 
stick about four feet long. The length of wire between 
noose and drag is the space of two fingers. To properly 
secure the wire to the drag, a turn has to be taken inside as 
illustrated in Figure 9, or it has a tendency to work off 
easily. 



The drag is not intended to be jammed into the ground. 
If it is made immovable the snare wire is apt to be broken 
very easily. A snared rabbit will eventually choke as he drags 
snare and drag along. In fact the weaker the wire, the lighter 
the drag. Instead of a stick, a small branchy spruce can be 
used but the rabbit will travel further before choking. 



The drag is poked lightly into the snow or propped up at 
an angle, as shown in Figure 10, so that there is a space of 
four fingers between ground and snare. Figure 1 1 illustrates 
a rabbit run and how the snares arc set out in it. If six 
snares have been made, they are utilized in the following 
way. Rabbit runs generally have a sort of “grain” to them. 
That is, most of the paths may run in more or less the same 
direction. Snares are set across this grain at a, b, d, e, f and 
h. At c, g and i the poorer runs are blocked off to discour¬ 
age rabbits from using them. 


9 










One now walks some distance from the snares to j or k 
and a commotion is made to drive any rabbits into the 
snares. A check is made of the snares. If you are lucky, 
there may be a rabbit or two already caught within an hour 
of the snares being positioned. Another alternative is to 
leave the snares up overnight. Snares should never be left 
unattended or abandoned. 

A rabbit can be dressed without any tools as the skin 
tears off fairly easily. A sharp rock is adequate to cut 
through the tendons of the legs. If the rabbit is skinned in 
such a way that the hide comes off like a tube, the skin can 
be used as emergency mitts. If a rabbit looks unhealthy, it 
may have tularemia (a rare condition in the wintertime). 
If the meat is to be utilized then care must be taken not to 
handle the rabbit with the bare hands if there are cuts or 
scratches present, in which case, gloves should be worn. If a 
rabbit looks very unhealthy, discard it altogether. 

The most efficient way to cook rabbit is to boil it and 
not discard the water it was boiled in. If no pot is available 
the rabbit may be roasted in front of the reflector. The 
rabbit is cut up into convenient pieces, placed on sharpened 
sticks and propped up, not over the coals, but to one side. 
Here again, it is not the smoke nor flame that does the 
cooking but the radiant heat. 

ON BEING LOST 

One’s State of Mind — 

There are a number of predictable things that may 
happen to the person that is lost . . . the overwhelming 
realization that one is entirely on his own. the lack of food 
with the resulting intense hunger pangs, the unrelenting 
cold, the fear of the unknown. Some people react to this 
with instant panic and often perish within a day or two. 
Others come down with deep depression, which often virtu¬ 
ally results in suicide. Many more would likely have 
weathered out this rough period of time if they had realized 
their mind and body needed time to adjust. Their greatest 
asset at that moment was time and the situation could best 
be handled by “hibernating” rather than frenzied activity. 
Hunger pangs soon subside as the stomach shrinks and the 
body begins drawing on its resources. The body has an 
almost unbelievable capacity to adjust to cold, if its onset is 
not too sudden or severe. The inevitable depression shortly 
subsides and the mind clears and the body automatically 
begins to make the appropriate adjustments for survival 
providing the mind does not knock it off balance. Once you 
lose your will to live, the inevitable will happen. 

Clothing — 

If you can keep yourself dry and warm, especially at 
night, life outdoors can be comfortable. You must have 
adequate clothing, footwear and headgear to meet the con¬ 
ditions you may encounter. Clothing is extremely important 
in terms of exposure. Wool clothing against the skin is 


recommended as it has the feature of being warm even when 
wet. Four layers of wool will come close to meeting the 
most severe conditions. 

To Avoid Exposure — 

Exposure is the condition where the body’s temperature 
drops below normal and is usually brought on by a com¬ 
bination of cold, wet and wind. A wet body, whether from 
sweating, rain, or falling through the ice, loses heat rapidly. 
Wet clothes have about one tenth the effectiveness of dry 
clothes in a wind. A particularly insidious condition is 
deep, soft, wet snow. To move through it takes a great deal 
of exertion and soon every part of the body in contact with 
it is wet. Body heat can be conducted away from the legs 
quite rapidly. The best cure for exposure is not to let it 
happen. The moment you realize that exposure is starting, 
stop, light a fire, get warm and dried out. 

What to do 

Before you enter the bush be sure you have matches, a 
serviceable pocket knife, a small compass and some high 
energy food. 

In winter, when you encounter a survival problem, your 
first concerns, in order of importance, are fire, shelter 
and water. 

The best plan may be to stay in one place and wait for 
rescuers. Prepare for an overnight stay. When disoriented, it 
is advisable to remain in one place until directions are re¬ 
established. If you move, mark your trail so that those 
looking for you will know where you went. It takes an 
average of five days for a search to get underway when 
someone realizes that you are missing. 

Listen for shouts, whistles, rifle shots and low-flying 
aircraft. If you have any means of signalling, three of any¬ 
thing is your signal indicating your distress. Anyone answer¬ 
ing your signal will use one of anything. Two of anything 
indicates, “please answer with one of anything so that a 
bearing can be taken on your location.” Once you have 
signalled your distress and have received an answer, 
stop moving immediately. It is exasperating to searchers to 
have to pursue the person they are looking for. 

Signal aircraft with a good smoky fire which should be 
kept going during the daylight hours. Build three fires or 
construct the figure ‘X’ to signal your distress. Flash air¬ 
craft with mirror or reflective surface. 

Consider time to be on your side. You will have lots of 
it. Place a heavy emphasis on never tiring yourself. Always 
look for a more relaxed way of doing things. If there is 
really nothing to do. then take the opportunity to relax. 
Rest at least ten minutes every hour. You must avoid 
fatigue. Take time in making your decisions remember to 
use your head before you use your feet. 

As the bush is neutral, neither for nor against you, it will 
be up to you what you get out of it. Nature will provide 
considerable means for survival so look upon it as a friend. 
Do not worry because it accomplishes nothing. Do not 
worry about what you haven’t got. There is always a way 
to get by. 

If it is all you have, drink lots of water, preferably hot. 
This extends survival time considerably. 

Always remember — the bush is neutral, but it can be 
very stern and exacting towards those who venture into it 
unprepared. 


10 











Lundrigans is one of 

Atlantic Canada’s 
largest Construction 
groups 


Our business is 

Engineering Construction, 
Property Development, 


XLUNDR 

Concrete Products, 

Auto Sales and Leasing, 
and Commercial 

Buildings. 

I_J> 

IC1ANH 

This broad base enables 
us to respond to changing 
demand in growth areas. 


LUNDRIGANS - IN ATLANTIC Canada 

HEAD OFFICE: 

RIVERSIDE DRIVE, CORNER BROOK', NFtD. 


CLASSIFIED ADS 


CAMP BOADICEA 

is looking for a camp site with 100-200 acres of land with 
waterfront footage and swimming facilities. 

Preferably there should be facilities for 60-100 campers with 
running water and electricity or gas. 

Please contact: Camp Boadicea 

195 Seaton St., Toronto, Ontario 

CAMP DIRECTORS 

with administrative and supervisory experience 
Nurses, and other senior, program and counselling staff 
required for the five resident camps operated by the 
Ontario Society for Crippled Children. Must enjoy working 
with handicapped children. 

Apply: Supervisor of Camping and Recreation, 

350 Rumsey Road, 

Toronto, Ontario M4G 1 R8 

DIRECTOR, Ontario Co-ed Resident Camp (Summer) 

One hundred six to ten year olds; thirty staff. 
Director works with Camping Service Staff. 
Responsible for program, site management, staff training. 
Minimum twenty-five years of age and have experience. 
Write: Tony Fry 

YMCA of Metropolitan Toronto 
Camping Service 

36 College Street, Toronto, Ontario 

REX RONEO MIMEOGRAPH DUPLICATOR 

Model D 490, Electric, 4 sets of Colour Rollers, Supplies, 
Stencil and Inks, matching metal Storage Cabinet. Very 
recent model. 

Call: Joe Kronick, 416 - 487-2341 



If you enjoy working with 
your hands (so many people 
do), then you will appreciate 
the contents of our new 1973 

CRAFT 

CATALOGUE 

and 

IDEA B00IC 


Its 132 pages are full of Craft 
ideas, basic instructions and 
materials you can use during 
your creative leisure hours. 
Many craftworkers consider it 
a reference book on contempor¬ 
ary Arts 'n Crafts. So, if you 
enjoy working with your hands 
and would like a compliment¬ 
ary copy, simply send us your 
name and address. 


Seated c* aft 

284-286 KING ST. WEST, 
TORONTO 2B. CANADA 






ii 
































































































Alta R. Kahn 

Honorary President 
Quebec Camping Association 

On May 23rd, 1973, the Executive Board of the Quebec 
Camping Association, English Section, was proud to honour 
Mrs. Alta R. Kalin, who has served wholeheartedly, in 
various Executive positions, towards the success of the 
Camping Movement in the Province of Quebec. 

Following is the tribute paid to Mrs. Kahn on that happy 
occasion: 

Mrs. Kahn is presently a member of the Executive Com¬ 
mittee, QCA English Section: Chairman, Standards Com¬ 
mittee, QCA English Section; Co-Cnairman, joint English 
and French Sections, Standards Committee, QCA-ACQ 
Provincial Board; Member, National Standards Committee, 
Canadian Camping Association: former President, QCA 
English Section; former President, QCA-ACQ Provincial 
Board. 

All organizations have their shining lights whose names 
go down to posterity. However, few can boast of an octo¬ 
genarian whose contribution to their cause is as outstanding 
now as it was twenty-seven years ago. No name in the 
English Section of the Association could be more admired 
or respected than that of Alta R. Kahn. 

Mrs. Kahn began her camping career with the Quebec 
Camping Association in 1946, and immediately became an 
active member. Fully realizing the herculean task confront¬ 
ing the Association, she put her stout heart and her 
imaginative soul into every undertaking. 

As far back as 1958, she was Chairman of the joint 
Quebec Camping Association and Canadian (National) 
Camping Association Conference. Her foresight and ad¬ 
venturesome spirit soon gave a new dimension to an 
Association bursting with the enthusiasm necessary to stride 
ahead. During her tenure of office as Conference Chairman, 
Mrs. Kalin courageously suggested that the Quebec Camping 
Association celebrate its ‘coming-of-age’ party by holding, 
for the first time, its Conference in a hotel. Success 
accompanied her all the way! 

From 1959-60, when inspection of camps and accredi¬ 
tation were in the pioneer stage, Mrs. Kalin acted as Co- 
Chairman of the QCA Standards Committee. In the ensuing 
years, her tireless energy and unusual ability to solve any 
problem were responsible for considerable progress in QCA 
Camp Standards. Thirteen years later, as Co-Chairman of 
the Standards Committee, QCA-ACQ Provincial Board, Mrs. 
Kalin is still working diligently to see standards improve 
and accreditation have the greatest significance possible. 
In order to cooperate with the French section, she assisted 
greatly in the establishing of Standards in the French- 
speaking Camps. It may well be attributed to Mrs. Kahn 
that she has the unique and infinite capacity to cope with 
any task in which she is involved. 



From 1960-62, Mrs. Kalin was President of the English 
Section of the Quebec Camping Association, and an Execu¬ 
tive Member of the Canadian Camping Association. During 
this term of office, she was a major contributor to the 
realization of the founding of the Provincial Board (co¬ 
ordinating body of the English and French Sections), and 
served as the Board's second President from 1963 to 1965. 
It was through Mrs. Kalin’s efforts that the Quebec Camping 
Association finally secured its Provincial Charter in 1961. 
Her keen mind seems bent on bettering any cause involving 
education and progress. 

We would like to note here a few of Mrs. Kahn’s per¬ 
sonal accomplishments: 

1908: first Jewish teacher to graduate from Macdonald 
College, after which she taught for five years. 

1909: became active in Zionist work and in the first 
Campaign of Federation of Jewish Charities. 

1918: one of the founders of Montreal Hadassah and, in 
1924, wrote a pamphlet on its origin and development. 
1920: organized first Junior Hadassah Chapter in Canada. 
1921: organized Senior Chapter Hadassah in St. John’s, 
Newfoundland. 

1924: organized University Chapter Junior Hadassah. 
1928-1930: Vice-President, Eastern Division of Canadian 
Hadassah. 

1931-1933: Chairman of Education, Canadian Hadassah. 
1936-1945: Executive Director, Young Women’s Hebrew 
Association. 

1946-1949: Executive Secretary, Jewish Community Camps 
(B’nai B'rith, Jewish Laurentian Fresh Air and Wooden 
Acres). 

During her years as Executive Secretary, Mrs. Kahn 
instituted many new projects, including the first Pre-Camp 
Training Programs for Staff. Whether planning programs or 
working with camps, Mrs. Kahn’s energies have no limita¬ 
tions. She is bounded on all sides by action and the tena¬ 
cious will to see improvement satisfactorily made before 
moving along to another challenge. 


12 


* 








Alta R. Kahn 

Tonight, it is with deep pride and 
great pleasure that the members of the 
Quebec Camping Association, English 
Section, appoint Mrs. Alta R. Kahn 
Honorary President, the first Honorary 
President in the history of the Associa¬ 
tion. The contribution she has made 
to the Camping Movement in Quebec 
will always inspire those of us who 
enjoy the privilege of associating with 
her. In an unassuming manner, typical 
of Mrs. Kalin, she will continue to be 
a guiding light to QCA as it strives to 
meet the challenges of the future. ■ 



It is with great pleasure to have the 
opportunity of writing to you in the hope 
that you would be pleased to accept our re¬ 
quest regarding pen pals for us. 

Please allow me to introduce myself at 
first. I am in the last grade (12th Grade) of a 
noted high school in Seoul, Korea, and act¬ 
ing as a chairman of Seoul junior students 
social service corps. 

Our corps consists of about 2,000 junior 
and senior high school girl and boy students 
in Seoul. It was established under the fol¬ 
lowing slogan of, “Let’s become a whole¬ 
some social being”, under some teachers’ 
guidance. 

We are now doing our best to be a whole¬ 
some social being in the future through such 
various projects as traffic control in rush 
hour, beautifying the metropolis and the 
campaign for the frugal life, etc. Therefore 
we have wanted to know and been much 
interested in foreign students way of thought, 
school-life and life-style, so that we may 
develop new idea for our life. So the oversea 
pen pals have become the center of interest 
of us for a long time. It is all the reason why 
I am now writing to you as a representative 
of our members. We are very anxious to seek 
for the foreign students who would like to 
correspond with us. We really want to ex¬ 
change friendly letters and friendship with 
foreign students beyond the border. 

We surely believe you will never turn 
away your face about our simple and keen 
wish and will be pleased to help us. We would 
appreciate it very much if you publish it in 
your precious column, so that the students 
can read my letter of appeal. 

We need the following information of the 
students who would like to correspond with 
us: name, address, age, sex, hobbies and 
other remarks. 

We really hope to receive the letters as 
many as possible from the students in your 
country and you will understand me, if I 
make any mistakes as I am a baby in Lnglish. 

Await the arrival of good news from you 
in the near future. 

Best wishes and happiness to you. 

Lovely Yours, 

Mr. Kim, Min-hong 
Seoul Junior Students 
Social Service Corps 
P.O. Box 60, Seoul, Korea. 



SALMON WIGGLE 

14 cup butter 
Vi cup flour 

3— 10 oz. cans cream of mushroom 
soup 

Salt and pepper 
3— 1 lb. cans salmon 
2— 14 oz. cans peas 
2 onions 

Melt the butter. Saute onions until 
golden. Blend in flour. Add mushroom 
soup. Stir to prevent lumps. Drain 
peas and add peas to mixture (save 
liquid). Add salmon. If too thick, add 
some of the liquid from the peas. Salt 
and pepper. Heat thoroughly and 
serve on toast. Serves 18-20. 


CHEESE POTATOES 

Cut 3 large, peeled potatoes in 14 inch 
lengthwise slices. Spread out on a 
20” length (double thickness) of foil. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper and 
plenty of grated cheese. Overlap 
potato slices, dot with butter. Bring 
o edges of foil together — leave a little 
space for expansion of steam. Seal 
well with a double fold. Bake 35 - 40 
minutes or until potatoes are soft 
and done. 


HAWAIIAN ORANGES 

For each serving, peel an orange and 
separate into sections. Put each sec¬ 
tioned orange on a double thickness 
of foil. Sprinkle generously with 
brown sugar. Add a dash of cinnamon 
and a tsp. butter. Wrap securely in 
foil. Cook on grill 12-15 minutes. 



PEANUT BUTTER 
FRENCH TOAST 

Butter 2 pieces whole wheat (or other) 
bread. Spread thickly with peanut 
butter and form a sandwich. Dip in 
beaten egg. Fry on greased griddle 
until the bread has browned. Serve 
with syrup and bacon or sausages. 

FISH IN FOIL 

2 or more fish fillets 
1 tblsp. lemon juice 

1 cube melted butter 
14 tsp. salt 

Combine in a skillet all ingredients 
except the fish, and bring to a boil. 
Let the mixture cool, then marinate 
the fillets in this for about an hour. 
Wrap each fillet in heavy-duty alumi¬ 
num foil. A double wrapping is best 
if the fish is to be cooked directly on 
the coals. Put the wrapped packages 
on the grill, or on the coals, for 15 to 
20 minutes, depending on the thick¬ 
ness of the fillets and the heat of the 
fire. Open and serve. 

HUSH PUPPIES 

2 cups corn meal 

1 cup flour 
Vi tsp. salt 

2 tsp. baking powder 

1 large onion, chopped fine 
4 tblsp. bacon fat 

Combine all ingredients and work in 
enough water to make a stiff dough. 
Roll into small balls or into lengths 
about half the size of your large finger. 
Fry in the fat with the fish until they 
are golden brown. Drain on absorbent 
paper and serve hot with fish or meat. 

Editor's Note: The above recipies are 
among many in the cook book entitled 
"Cookery for Kids, Kamp 'n Kicks" by 
Helen E. Stewart. 


13 






CHIEF DAN GEORGE 



> 


The cry of a loon followed by the softly spoken words. 

“To set up camp beside a lake or stream , 
to know the freedom of the winds , 
the dancing of the sun on the water , 
it makes my heart soar like an eagle. ” 
was my first introduction to Chief Dan George. This radio message 
was the forerunner of inviting the public to the Toronto Camping 
Show. And it was there I had the distinct pleasure to meet him. I 
told him about the many campers across Canada and our keen 
interest in Indian Lore and “To all campers of Canada” was how 
he inscribed his photograph. 

Honorary Chief of the Sqamish and Shuswap Indians, this 
British Columbia Indian won a nomination for an Academy 
Award for his role as Old Lodge Skins in Arthur Penn’s “Little 
Big Man”. Chief Dan George is the product of twenty seven years 
as a longshoreman until a near fatal injury diverted him into show 
business. He was recently awarded the prestigious Human Rela¬ 
tions Award by the Canadian Council of Christians and Jews for 
his work on behalf of the Indian people. 

When I left him, I carried away with me the impression 
that Chief Dan George was a gentle man and a true product of 
his mighty race. 

Helen Stewart 



14 










extend your season by WINTERIZING 

by Brian Blackstock 

Camp Mazinaw 


As the demand increases for the use of our camps by 
school and community groups, it might be feasible for you 
to consider extending the operation of your camp. The 
costs need not be excessive since it is important to remem¬ 
ber that the interested groups are unlikely to expect “all the 
modern conveniences”. 

The fall, early winter or spring are good seasons in which 
to try your hand at winterizing since these are the times in 
which work is easier done indoors. 

In selecting a cabin to winterize, make certain it is close 
to a water source. The lake would be very suitable because 
running water is not as important a feature to these groups 
as would be imagined. It would also be wise to remember 
that people seem to require more space in which to live in 
the winter. If it is possible, select an adequate building in 
which sleeping quarters are separate from the living and 
dining area. 

The winterizing can be done by former staff or friends 
who would like to “get away from it all and do something”. 
We use electric heating in the majority of our buildings 
because we have found it to be very satisfactory and not as 
expensive as we were warned it would be. We used existing 
buildings since it was important to make the best use of 


what we had before going to the expense of erecting new 
buildings. 

After you have had any necessary wiring installed, you 
are ready to begin. The illustration will give you an idea of 
how simply the work may be done. Here are the steps that 
we followed . . . first, we stapled in the insulation then 
covered it with a layer of plastic to act as a moisture barrier. 
Over the plastic, we stapled a layer of tar paper on the 
horizontal (not vertically as shown in the photo). Over it 
all we nailed unfinished pine boards about one quarter to 
one half inch apart so that the tar paper was visible. And 
that's it! We used untreated pine and after three years it is 
still yellowing well. If you have a source of barn board, line 
the building with it after you have sprayed it for insects. 
Plywood is suitable but not as rustic looking. 

With the installation of a small electric or gas stove and 
refrigerator, you are in business! The addition of an old- 
fashioned pot belly stove and a few pictures on the wall 
will make a big difference to the appearance of the interior 
and will aid in making everyone feel more welcome. It is 
surprising how quickly word will travel and you may find 
you have enough business to warrant winterizing a second 
building. ■ 


15 


































































































CAMP ADMINISTRATION — by Lynn S. Rodney and Phyllis M. Ford 
Published by The Ronald Press Company. 402 pp. $8.75 

The authors have accomplished a scholarly presentation on the complexities of 
Camp Administration. The text is filled with accurate information about the 
many and varied aspects of camping. 

Private, agency and government-supported camps receive attention under day 
camps, resident camps and travel camps. Little attention is given to school 
camping. 

Current trends in programming, administrative procedures, staff selection and 
training, food services, budgeting and financing, insurance, Public Relations, 
Property selection and Development are major topics which receive excellent 
treatment. 

The ample appendix has a multitude of the usual camp forms such as medical, 
staff applications, staff reference, contracts, camper registration and job 
descriptions. 

While this reference book is written strictly from the American point of view, 
there are many worthwhile applications for those involved in all types of camping 
in Canada. 


X" X X- - - M 


Bill Babcock 


OUTDOOR EDUCATION - "WITHOUT BOUNDARIES" 

Proceedings of the International Conference in Outdoor Education held at Camp 
Kandaiore and the Forest Technical School — September 28 - October I, 1972. 

The title " Without Boundaries " reflects something of the spirit and scope of a 
conference which was conducted for nearly six hundred persons in a natural 
setting. As the proceedings reveal there was very broad representation from the 
Outdoor Education field with an equally wide range of content which mirrors the 
intent of the title " Without Boundaries 

Because camping is the most significant user of the outdoor education method, 
it is difficult to find an article on the proceedings which cannot be related or 
interpolated to camping. The following titles are selected from a much greater- 
number which are included in the volume: Promising Future Developments in 
Outdoor Education , Outdoor Education for Handicapped Children , Exploring a 
Forest , Adventure-Centred Programmes, Outdoor Education in Germany , Resi¬ 
dential Field Centres, Day Care Centre Programs , Government Park Services 
Programs for Outdoor Education , Professional Preparation of Teachers for Out¬ 
door Education, Teaching a Beginner Archer to Shoot, In-Service Programmes 
and Why the Excitement About Environmental Education? 

The opening and closing addresses are provided in full, along with a summary 
of at least two of the special conference events, namely, the Chapel Service and an 
Indian Council night. 

Finally, a very useful ingredient is the list of speakers and delegates which, 
along with the actual programme, permits the reader to follow up on subjects of 
special interest. 

If you desire a copy, contact Kirk Wipper, Room 7, 121 St. Joseph Street, 
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario. Copies are $3.00 plus 50^ mailing charge. 

Kirk A. W. Wipper 



Protect your docks against ice!! 

To protect your dock against ice dam¬ 
age, fasten a number of logs to the 
dock in the fashion illustrated below. 
Logs are secured with 2x4's and spiked 
into the dock planking. When the wind 
drives a block of ice towards the dock, 
it rises up and over the dock. 


TOP VIEW 




Have a “Camp Improvement Day” . . 
Each cabin group selects a “man size” 
project to improve the camp in any 
fashion it sees fit! 


Are your brooms wearing out? Drill a 
hole and make a loop in the handle so 
that it can hang up rather than stand 
in the corner. 


Mow to find a cook . . . For smaller 
camp operations, a farm woman or 
housewife can often perform the job 
of cook very satisfactorily. A letter to 
the local church can often lead to such 
a person. 


Avoiding food waste. . . If you serve 
meals family style, have each table re¬ 
turn its food platters to the kitchen as 
soon as everyone at the table has been 
served. Let the person wanting second 
helpings take his own plate to the serv¬ 
ing wicket for them. Bruno Morawetz 

The Editor welcomes any writers or contri¬ 
butors to this column. 


16 









































CHESTNUT CANOE CO. LTD. 

FREDERICTON, N.B. 

OVER 70 YEARS OF SERVICE TO CANADIAN CAMPERS 


WE HAVE A CANOE FOR EVERY PURPOSE 

Over 45 Models to choose from. 


Write to the Chestnut Canoe Co. for Free Literature and Prices 












'Here we are back in action after an exciting 
summer in camping . . . sincerely hope you ex¬ 
perienced the same . . . to bring you the news from 
across Canada. A The Editorial Committee enjoyed'd weekend 
r of brainstorming for the magazine at Camp Trailfinder in September. 

Doug Dent has joined its ranks as the National Advertising Chairman. 

Plans are in the offing to add several new columns dealing with business and 
finance, programme ideas, day camping, thoughts for the day, nature lore. Would you 
let us know what you would like to see as a regular column? Also, it would be just great if 
some of our readers would be interested in assuming the responsibility of writing a column. You 
send us an “I will” and we’ll send our thanks and the dead-line dates for the next three issues. With the ^ 
exception of two people the Editorial Committee is Ontario-oriented and we have the desire to swell its roster 
with other provinces represented so that the magazine becomes the true voice of Canada. Hank Roessingh has given 


much assistance in advising the editor 
on format and editorial content and 
she is very appreciative. Constructive 
criticism is notout of line because only 
in that way can the magazine improve. 
▲ Now on to the news ... At its 
Annual Meeting in Halifax on Nov. 5th, 
the N.S.C.A. re-elected Rev. David 
Boston as its President while The N. & 
L.C.A. re-elected Frank Jennings as 
President at its Annual Meeting on 
Nov. 2nd in St. John’s, and made Dr. 
Doug Eaton its Honorary President. 
Our first tip of the hat this season to 
Frank who assured us, at the CCA 
Board Meeting in Vancouver, that his 
association could provide some adver¬ 
tising for the magazine and he has 
done it! Keep up the good work, 
Frank. A We hear that the N.B.C'.A. 
Conference, held in Moncton on Nov. 
10th, was a big success with 200 in 
attendance. A Some items of interest 
came out of the CCA Executive Meet¬ 
ing which preceded the NCBA Con¬ 
ference. . . There seems to be great 
enthusiasm on the one hand, for Na¬ 
tional Camping Day, and total uninter¬ 
est or lack of initiative on the other. 
The Committee mailed out approxi¬ 
mately oOO evaluation forms to mem¬ 
ber camps across Canada and received 
48 replies indicating that 24 camps 
participated, 24 did not. It is under¬ 
standable that the Executive decided 
there will be no official recognition of 
this day in 1974. It is our feeling that 
National Camping Day is valid and 
can he a definite plus for organized 
camping in dealing with the public 
and, therefore, the government. And, 
too, camping becomes national rather 
than local scenes wrapped up in them¬ 
selves. A Stan Wild reports that suffi¬ 


cient votes were received by the dead¬ 
line date, Nov. 20th. to approve the 
new Constitution. This means a Na¬ 
tional Vice-Presideiv: must be elected 
by Jan. 31st. Nominations will be 
called prior to Dec. 31st. The Con¬ 
stitution will be instituted by the April 
Annual Meeting of C.C.A. It is com¬ 
pletely bilingual, accomplished by our 
friends in Quebec, Yves Beauregard in 
particular. Stan has put many hours 
into the monumental task of rewriting 
the Constitution ar.d is to be truly 
commended for a job well done. A The 
move for P.F.I. to form a new associa¬ 
tion is being spearheaded by John 
Hughes. A Dialogue is continuing with 
the Secretary of State, Hon. Hugh 
Faulkner, concerning matters related 
to OFY grants and camping pro¬ 
grammes. A John Latimer has been in 
communication with Hon. Robert An¬ 
drus, Manpower and Immigration, 
concerning foreign students, and a 
meeting with him and his staff is 
planned for the very near future. No 
indication has been given if another 
year's exemption will be granted but 
it is hopeful. AThs C.C.A. is very 
grateful for the continuing financial 
support of Recreation Canada with 
special thanks to Cor Westland and 
Shir! Wiliette. A Our President will be 
writing every province for their re¬ 
ports, documents, research papers and 
books which will be channelled to 
Brian Blackstock. Publications Chair¬ 
man, so that he can work on a Central 
Information Bureau. A big job and 
one that cannot be done without the 
support of the provincial associations. 
A The dates have been set for the 
following annual meetings and Con¬ 
ferences: 




Jan. 24-27 AC A Conference at 

Banff • Jan. 31-Feb. 1 • CCA Execu¬ 
tive Meeting in Winnipeg • Feb. 2-3 
MCA Camp Directors’ Workshop in 
Winnipeg • Feb. 19-23 American 
Camping Association Conference in 
Atlanta, Georgia • Feb. 26-28 Na¬ 
tional Workshop at Camp Richildaca, 
near Toronto, with emphasis on day 
camping standards • Mar. 1-3 OCA 
Conference at Ryerson Institute in 
Toronto • Mar. 28-30 QCA-ACQ 
Conference at the Queen Elizabeth 
Hotel in Montreal • April 10 Society 
of Camp Directors Annual Meeting in 
Toronto • April 25-26 CCA Board 
and Annual Meeting in St. John's, 
Nfld. . April 26-27 N & LC'A Con¬ 
ference in St. John’s • May 2-4 SCA 
Conference • May 3-5 NSCA Con¬ 
ference in Tatamagouch • May 9-12 
Outdoor Education Conference, spon¬ 
sored by the Winnipeg Outdoor Educa¬ 
tion Association, in Winnipeg. A 
Wc were delighted to hear that Don 
MacAulay of the SCA was married in 
July and Rick Bendera, the former 
Secretary of the CCA. in October. 
Word has reached us that Marg Mayotte 
and Mike Pezderic (President of the 
SCA) will become Mr. and Mrs. on 
Dec. 22nd. We wish for them all every 
happiness and success. A The OCA 
wishes the best to A1 Knox who is 
furthering his studies as a post-graduate 
student in Continuing Education at the 
University of Saskatchewan and ex¬ 
tends a warm hand of welcome to 
Wayne Perkins from Saskatchewan. 
Wayne has assumed AFs double role 
as Director of Camp Wanakita and 
Education Chairman on the OCA 
Advisory Board. 

- Helen E. Srewart 





