OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 


CANADIAN CAMPING 


December lOOim Toronto, Canada 


























^xeeting,^ 3tom ^ibbon^ 


Specialists 

in 

Food Service 


The people who fry them 
continue to buy them 
again and again — 


to 

and have for more 

Camps 

than 40 years 

Everywhere 

We thank you for 

Jelly Powders 

your many favours, 

Pudding Powders 

hope for your continued 

Instant Puddings 

goodwill 

Cake Mixes 


Fruit Rickeys 

and 

Table Syrup 


Hot Chocolate 

WISH YOU THE BEST 

Flavourings 

OF EVERYTHING FOR 

Soup Bases 


Fruit Pie Fillings 

CHRISTMAS AND 

Marmalades 

THE NEW YEAR 

Jams 


Camp-Rite 


GIBBONS 

FOODS LTD. 

MANUFACTURERS 

OF QUICKSET DESSERTS 

49 Advance Road 

Toronto 18 




From tents^^^^^and equipment for 
"camping out’ to co-ordinated furnishings 
for cabins, clubs or lodges, 

EATON’S Contract Sales Servicl^^Lfi^ 
has it! Youngsters and adults like to 


go back _year after year 

to EATON-*^^ /V^ equipped camps 
where they can "rough it"- ^^ 
in comfort. And camp 
owners appreciate the way EATON 
Contract Sales experts assume full 
responsibility for any assignment, of 
any size, following through from 
planning to completion. 

You deal with just one firm (that 
means less money, time and effort for 
you), but you get all the service 
you need, when you call in . . , 


MONCTON MONTREAL * TORONTO WINNIPEG VANCOUVER 

Toronto, Canada, December 1961 3 




No matter whether your campers 
bicycle, canoe, hike or ride horseback, 
you must have the best in Camping 
Insurance. And there’s only one BEST 
— sold by the pioneers in this essential 
coverage. 

Our policies cover 


& 



• Polio And Dread Diseases • Medical Reimbursement 

• Epidemic • Accidental Death 

• Dismemberment • Tuition Refund 


Best in 
Coverage 


THE SIGN OF GOOD SERVICE 


VERMONT ACCIDENT INSURANCE 

Rutland, Vermont, U.S.A. 

Member American Camping Association 


Best in 
Service 


it^s Wise 



To Supervise 

A DISCUSSION ON STAFF 
SUPERVISION IN SUMMER CAMPS 


COMPILED AND EDITED BY 

ALAN KLEIN, and IRWIN HALADNER, 

Professor Graduate School of Director, Camp Wabi-Kon 

Social Work, University of Pittsburgh. 

Endorsed and Distributed by . . . The Ontario Camping Association 
Order Now — $1.00 per copy. 


CLIP AND MAIL 


Ontario Camping Association 93 Yorkville Avenue, Toronto, Canada 
Please send me.copies of “It’s Wise to Supervise”—$1.00 per copy. 


□ Please bill me. 


4 


Name. 

Address. 

□ I enclose cheque or money order to cover cost. 


Canadian Camping 








FOR CAMPS ONLY 


THIS COUPON 
IS WORTH ONE DOLLAR 



ONE DOLLAR OFF 

This coupon — when presented to your wholesaler — 
will give you $1.00 off the regular price of a case of 
INSTANT MIL-KO (six — 6 lb. cartons). 

TO THE WHOLESALER: Please give Camp Buyers 
$1.00 off a case of INSTANT MIL-KO (six — 6 lb. 
cartons) and redeem this coupon from Mil-Ko Products 
Limited for $1.00 plus 10^ handling charge. 





GREAT MILK NEWS: 

ifew Zest in f/avor of tNSTANT MtUHO 



fO SEAL OF 
i!. APPROVAL; * 
WlTU^ 


Mil-ko—100% Owned and 

Operated by Canadians 

Keep Canadians Working— 

Buy Canadian 


There's a great new 'zest' in the flavor of 
INSTANT MIL-KO. Kids smack their lips over 
it and ask for more. 

Tastes best when you serve it ice-cold. 
Delicious! 

And the new INSTANT MIL-KO skim milk 
powder Is easy to mix. It's 'crystallized' to 
dissolve Instantly. 

High in nutrition too. Only the fat has been 
removed. An excellent dietary source of 
riboflavin, protein and calcium. A good dietary 
source of thiamin and Vitamin C. Also, it is 
Vitamin D Increased. 

All this for less than 7^ a quart! 

Write for institutional recipes: 

Canadian Camping Offer, 

Box 695, Hamilton, Ontario. 

CANADIAN HOUSEWIVES HAVE BOUGHT 
MORE MIL-KO THAN ANY OTHER BRAND 


Toronto, Canada, December 1961 


5 











A Message of Interest , . . 

To readers of CANADIAN CAMPING, 
from the American Camping Association 

It was over two years ago that a group of camp directors in New 
England began the preparation of some practical, down-to-earth resource 
material to help young counsellors deal with the common every-day 
guidance problems they are faced with at camp. The result is the 24-page 
Camper Guidance—A Basic Handbook for Counsellors which was incorporated 
as a monograph in the March 1961 issue of "Camping Magazine." 
It represents up-to-the-minute principles and practices to help counsellors 
in guiding campers, gathered from first-hand experience and from authori¬ 
tative sources. The response has been overwhelming; never before has a 
publication of the American Camping Association been met with such 
enthusiastic reception. 

The initial supply of 6000 reprints were sold within three weeks. 
Additional copies are now available at 75 ^ per copy; 4-24 copies, 60^; 
25-49 copies, 50^; 50 or more, 40^. 

AMERICAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

Martinsville, Indiana 



CANADIANS 
ARE CAMPERS 


JOIN THE CANADIAN 
CAMPING ASSOCIATION 


ENCOURAGE ALL YOUR CAMP STAFF TO ENJOY THESE 
MEMBERSHIP SERVICES AT SPECIAL STUDENT RATES 

Remember: Your membership in a provincial organization includes 
membership in The Canadian Camping Association 
and a subscription to "Canadian Camping". 


6 


Can.\dian Gampino 



CAMPERS 

FROM 8 TO 80 


IT'S FOR YOUI 

THE MOST PERFECT BEGINNERS 
KIT EVER OFFERED! 



INCLUDES 


WHEN YOU BUY A 

MODERN 
LEATHERCRAFT 

KIT.$14.95 

^ .... . 

Earn money enjoying spare time ... 

with leathercraft! Expert methods, instruc¬ 
tions help you learn W'hile making items 


8 tools; 9 popular 
precut leather proj¬ 
ects (billfold, wallet, 
etc.); lacing; leather 
finish; easy instruc¬ 
tions; FREE six month 
. subscription to 'The 
Leather Craftsman." 


that sell. Carl T. of Cincinnati earns $400 
a year ''extra”. You can too, order your 
Modern Leathercraft Kit today! 

Write for FREE 64 page catalog 

TANDY LEATHER CO. Zl 

P.O. BOX 340-CC BARRIE, ONTARIO 


Extra QUALITY PAYS . . . 

and tliat is vouched for by the steadily growing number of camps whom 
we are privileged to supply year after year. 

Our sincere appreciation and we extend to all this time-honoured greet¬ 
ing of the Season. 

MERRY CHRISTMAS 
AND A 

HAPPY NEW YEAR 


• Specialized Foods 


• Specialized Service 


FOODCRAFT LABORATORIES LIMITED 


58-60 Duchess Street, Toronto 2, Ontario 

DISTRIBUTION ACROSS CANADA 


Toronto, Canada, December 1961 


7 









ORDER NOW FOR BETTER 
ASSORTMENT 


WILL HOLD FOR CAMP OPENING 
LIMITED SUPPLY 

Pre-Camptime Offer of 
Substandards at Generous 
Discounts 




Items not Illustrated: 

• Vegetable Bowl 

• Platter 

• Pitcher 

• Tumbler 

• Creamer and Sugar 

• Salad Servers 

• Jam or Sugar Pot 

• Salt and Peppers 

• Soup Plate 

• Butter Dish and 
Cover 

Colours: Yellow, 
Green, Coral, Blue 


375 Danforth Road, 
Scarborough, Ont. 
(Phone OX. 1-2179) 


OUR ''VANGUARD^' STYLE 
With Draining and Stacking Features 


NEW BOOKS 

For Campers, Counselors, Parents, Teachers 
THE GIRL’S BOOK OF PHYSICAL FITNESS by Jean C. Vermes. 

THE BOY’S BOOK OF PHYSICAL FITNESS by Hal G. Vermes. 

for the Kiris . . help her to enchance her Kirlhood. She’ll feel better, look 
better, think better. 

for the boys . . show him how to put his best foot forward now . . and he’ll 
keep ahead later. 

Complete physical fitness proKrams for boys and Kiris approachinK junior-hiKh 
and up. The best mo<lern medical, nutritional and physical education on exerci.se, 
diet, personal hyKicne, sports, preventive measures, health-harminK habits. 
Dr. W. W. Bauer, Director of the Department of Health E<lucation, American 
Medical Association, points out in introductions to these books, the importance 
of the health rules they .suiiply. Parents, teachers, scout leaders, camp counselors, 
and others will want the boys and Kiris in their lives to benefit by the.se well- 


planned proKrams ...Each $1.9.5 

SCRAP WOOD FUN FOR KIDS by Robert F. Endicott. 

100 ready-to-use patterns for easy-to-make thinKS — for home, shop, camp — 
teachinK sound woodworkinK skills for fun now and use later on. $4.95 

FUN WITH BRAND-NEW GAMES by Allan and Paulette Macfarlan. 


Over 200 oriKinal now Karnes requirinK little or no equipment. Everyone from 
.^-year-olds to Grandma can find fresh fun in this new Macfarlan treasure-house. 
Introductory chapters Kive leaders an old hand’s expert advice on such matters 
as motivation, KroupinK players fairly, proKram planninK. assurinK safety, 
and advance preparation. .54.25 

Order from your regular bookstore. 

G. R. WELCH COMPANY LIMITED, Toronto 18, Ontario 


8 


Canadian Camping 








CANADtAN CAMPING 

Vol. 13 DECEMBER, 1961 No. 1 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 


Closed Oceans. 

The Private Camp.. 

Winter Camping.. 

Crafty Idea,. 

When The Heart Stops. 

Day Camping.... 

For Your Library. 

Woodfire and Candlelight (Poem) 

Greetings from C.C.A. President. 

Prayer for Bill (Poem). 

A.C.A. Convention.. 


.Wilbur Howard 

F. M. Van Wagner 
.Marion Searles 


.Kirk A. W. Wipper 
.Segrid Day 


Mary S. Edgar 


10 

13 

14 
16 

17 

18 
20 
21 
22 
23 
23 


Lagoon System of Disposal for Summer Camps; W. M. Walkinshaw— 

E. M. Sanderson...... 24 


Camp Subsidies.Agnes Mutchler 28 

We Switched to Paper Service.Joseph Kronick 36 


Cover Cut—Courtesy Camp Ouareau 


CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

2233 Belgravc Avenue, Montreal 28, Quebec 
HU. 9-1541 


Honorary President- 

Past Presidents 

Taylor Statten, Toronto 
Dais L. Gass, Montreal 
Anne I. Vail, Montreal 
W. E. (Ted) Yard, Toronto 
Irwin Haladner, Toronto 
F. M. Van Wagner, Montreal 

President 


Miss Mary Edgar 

Executive Secretary 

Miss Franaces M, Kelly 
2233 Belgravc Ave., Montreal 

Corresponding Secretary 
Mrs. Agnes Mutchler 
2070 Lincoln, Apt. 7, Montreal 

Treasurer 

W. J. G. Hewetson, Montreal 


Kenneth H. Murray 

Vice-Presidents 
Mrs. Pat Broome, Vancouver 
Rev. R. S. Harper, Winnipeg 
Mrs. Alta R. Kahn, Montreal 
Miss Margaret Govan, Toronto 
Grant McKeen, Edmonton 
Abol Zisi, Halifax , , 

Editorial Committee — 


Publisher, Canadian Camping 
Fred Haiblen 

170 Bloor Street West, Toronto 
924-7117 

Editor 

Miss Joyce Bertram 
238 St. Clements Ave., 

Toronto 12, Ont. 


Barry Lowes, Margaret Govan, Katherine Anson, Kirk Wipper, W. E. Yard, Reg 
Blackstock, Eanswythe Flynn, John Gates. 


**CANAOIAN CAMPING** IS PUBLISHED FOUR TIMES A YEAR BY THE CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
CO. FOR THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION AT 170 BLOOR ST. WEST, TORONTO, ONTARIO. SUB- 
SCRIPTIOM prices: MEMBERSHIP IN THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION INCLUDES CANADIAN 
camping: to NON-MEMBERS, 7S CENTS PER COPY, $2.78 PER YEAR. $8.00 FOR THREE YEARS. 

AUTHORIZED AS SECOND CLASS MAIL, POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT, OTTAWA. ONT., AND FOR PAY¬ 
MENT OF POSTAGE IN CASH. 


Toronto^ Canada, December 1961 


9 



















EDITORIAL 


CLOSED OCEAHS 


Here is an incident that happened 
at Miami Beach. Miami Beach is the 
place where Floyd Patterson and Inge- 
mar Johansson went to eat leather. A 
guest at the Fountainbleu Hotel asked 
the way to the ocean. The bell boy 
replied, ‘T am sorry, sir, but the ocean 
is closed.” I wonder how many of us 
have closed oceans in the area of 
camping. 

Reality — A Closed Ocean 

Our present day civilzation has to 
struggle hard to hang on to reality. This 
is the day of the affluent society. We 
have an economy that is based on the 
money that people do not have but 
expect to get. Vance Packard talks 
about status seekers, the corporate caste 
system and the pecking order. Where 
are you on the totem pole? We have 
the symbols of status — the key to the 
executive washroom, the ulcer, the 
wall-to-wall headache, accreditation. 

This is the day of homogenized mag¬ 
azines. Someone has pointed to an 
issue of a well-known national magazine 
which had nine pages in full colour 
of Renoir followed by a roller skating 
horse. 

We seem to be searching for reality 
in the field of art. For instance, there 
is the art by accident school. The 
paint is not brushed on or even spread 
on with palette knife. It is squirted 
from a tube, trickled, poured, spattered, 


(Notes on an address given by Rev. Wilbur 
K. Howard at the Canadian Camping 
Association Conference, 1961) 


dripped, sloshed. A picture labelled 
Haliburton Sunset looks like scrambled 
eggs on a bed spring. 

What evidence do we find in the 
Neo-gargoyle sculpture. A piece of this 
sculpture may be composed of dis¬ 
carded gears, pipes, bits of iron ore, 
steel plates, grating, cinders and slag. 
You gash it, melt it, score it, pit it, 
crumple it and soon you come up with 
a work of art. 

We find the search for reality going 
on in the field of drama. Here we see 
the work of people like the angry 
young men, the writers with far-out 
phobias, and the roaring irreverence of 
Brenan Behan. Pinter and others write 
about people who can’t communicate 
with each other, or somebody waiting 
for who knows what which never 
turns up. 

What does a play like Krapp’s Last 
Tape say about reality? This play por¬ 
trays a feeble, nearly blind and deaf, 
solitary and half drunk, shabby old 
man who crouches in a squalid room 
eating bananas and playing old spools 
of his own voice on a tape recorder. 

Then there is the search for reality 
in modern architecture. One editorial 
recently spoke of the “tepid ooze” of 
mediocrity in much mass architecture. 

We are surrounded with hidden per¬ 
suaders — subliminal gimmicks — Mr. 


10 


Canadian Camping 



Kleen, Mr. Coffee Nen-es, toothpaste 
for those who can’t gleani after every 
brush. 

In spite of the do-it-yourself trend 
we tend to let others do it for us in 
the field of music. Here we seem to 
be losing out to mass production. 
Music seems to be one common thread 
that binds together all teen-agers. 
Music has a beat that arouses sym¬ 
pathetic response in teen-agers. “Jazz, 
said Mr. Behan, “is a tremendous ex¬ 
perience to listeners. It kind of dis¬ 
rupts loneliness. When people hear 
good jazz, they know there are lonely 
people in the world besides themselves.” 
Adolescence can be a lonely, wilderness 
experience. Adolescents are often so 
lonely that corporate togetherness is 
important for them. However, instead 
of letting teen-agers make music we 
mass produce it. Ask the teen-ager 
what his hobby is and his reply may be, 
“Record collecting.” 

We used to make our own radio 
with an oatmeal box and a crystal. 
Early Hi-Fi bugs messed around with 
tubes, resistors, condensers and built 
their own tuners and amplifiers. Now 
you can buy a neat, mass-produced, 
packaged hi-fi deal. 

For nutrition we have the Metrical 
moment. Edgar Friedenberg has 
pointed out that some of us go through 
life saying, “Fm hungry!” when we 
mean, “Nobody loves me!” Alexander 
King writes of the man who spent 
$7,000.00 to have a psychiatrist tell 
him that in all his life he had never 
loved anyone and nobody had ever 
cared a rap for him. 

Children soon learn about the un¬ 
reality of relationships. The child 
comes out of his private world where 
everybody does things for him. Now 
he meets people as competitors, people 
bent on their own personal goals. If 
the child gets in the way physically, 


emotionally, vocationally, he may get 
stepped on. The child has to deal with 
differences — the differences between 
what he sees in himself and what others 
see in him; the difference between 
what he needs and what others have 
to give; the difference between what 
he gives and what others can accept. 
So the child is caught up in a jungle 
of relationships. He soon learns to put 
on a cover-up expression and play his 
cards close to his chest. 

We find ourselves living in a filtering 
fellowship in a coffee-bean society. Our 
relationships last about as long as it 
takes to smoke a cigarette down to the 
filter and our relationships are often 
as shallow as the coffee in the cup 
which holds us together for the brief 
period while we drink it. 

CAMP MUST KEEP OPEN A FEW 
BREATHING HOLES OF REALITY 

Gamp must provide elemental things 
— wind, water, trees, rocks, earth. 
Gamp must provide honest fun not 
canned laughter or commercial gim¬ 
micks that are phoney and artificial. 
Camp must provide a community of 
friendship and co-operation — not a 
rat race. Camp must provide a com¬ 
munity where there are relationships 
built on love, trust, mutual concern. 

Space — A Closed Ocean 

Ham in a capsule! This sounds like 
chicken in a basket. It of course refers 
to Ham, the astrochimp — the monkey 
which was sent up in order to invest¬ 
igate space travel conditions. 

Scientists once thought man was a 
novel happening unlikely to have de¬ 
veloped more than once in a universe 
throughout eternity. Now many people 
are beginning to think that somewhere 
out there we have neighbours. We 
have a new term—exosociety. By this 
term we mean intelligent life beyond 


Torontoy Canada^ December 1961 


11 


our solar system. At the moment we 
are not likely to come face to face with 
this intelligent life beyond our solar 
system because we have not solved the 
transportation problem. We need a 
rocket whose speed will compete with 
the speed of light. Maybe we can 
signal across the space in the mean¬ 
time. It could be that intelligent life 
on some other planet has been beaming 
signals to us for the last ten million 
or hundred million years. Getting no 
reply they might have concluded that 
nobody was at home on earth. 

If a two-way communication with 
intelligent life on some other planet is 
set up, we may have a situation where 
scientists will ask questions but not live 
long enough to hear the answers. Says 
Purcell, “But imagine that a reply to 
one of your mess«tges was scheduled to 
be received forty years from now. What 
a legacy for your grandchildren.” Ed¬ 
ward Purcell, Harvard University, 
Nobel prize-winning physicist, has also 
said, “It’s not so important whether we 
learn anything or whether we just hear 
‘one, two, three’ or some other trivial 
message. Just knowing we are not 
alone would change our entire philo¬ 
sophical outlook.” 

Astronomer Frank Drake has sug¬ 
gested that perhaps a basic question 
may be. “Is there intelligent life on 
earth?” 

It is strange that we who are on the 
threshold of space travel have so little 
space. 

We live in crowded cities with 
modern cliff-dwellers living in high 
rise apartments. A crowd of course 
is a matter of how you look at it. In 
the subway a crowd is called congestion, 
in a nightclub called intimacy. But 
there is no getting away from the fact 
that our world is becoming crowded. 
We are talking about the population 
explosion. 


There is another way in which we 
are crowded. People need psychological 
space—room to make up their mind. 

CAMP GAN PROVIDE SPACE — 
PHYSICAL AND 
PSYCHOLOGICAL SPACE 

What about your camp? Do you 
have a small property? Do you make 
a small use of a big properyt? Do you 
have civilization crowding in next door? 
Are your cabins crowded together? Do 
you make adequate use of your free 
space — lakes, rivers, woods, roads, 
airways? 

And how are you off for psycho¬ 
logical space in your camp. Do kids 
have a chance to make their own 
decisions? Or are they smothered and 
cramped with rules, traditions, fears, 
pre-tested, pre-digested dehydrated 
program? 

Co-operation — A Closed Ocean 

We are living in a world where wc 
need to learn more about co-operation. 
We need to develop the habit of think¬ 
ing that the other guy is not my enemy 
but rather he is my friend. We need 
the attitude that we have a lot more 
to learn from each other. In the camp¬ 
ing field there are more than enough 
plans for us all. If I am hostile and 
say negative things about my com¬ 
petitor, I am the loser. Dirt thrown is 
ground lost. How can we co-operate 
in camping? 

1. We can all show an overall con¬ 
cern for all children. We can work 
together to ensure that a camping ex¬ 
perience is not denied any child who 
desires or needs such. 

2. We can co-operate by sharing ideas 
with each other—ideas on administra¬ 
tion, programme, leadership. 

him to page 33 


12 


Canadian Campino 




The Private Camp 


F, M. VanfVagner, 
Camp Nominingue 


The private summer camp for boys or girls is essentially an educational 
institution and it follows naturally that its primary aims should be educational. 
This being so, there can be no moral justification for the establishment and 
conduct of a private camp as a business primarily for financial gains. This is not 
to say that a reasonable return should not be realized on the capital invested, 
but a private camp, as a private school, should place the high goals of education 
above all else. 

It is just as essential that owners and directors of private camps should be 
educators, as it is that principals of private schools should be educators. 

The owner of a private camp that over a period of years builds up loyalty 
on the part of campers, counsellors and parents, and that has gained public 
recognition as an organization, performing a worthwhile. service in the field 
of outdoor education, has a definite moral obligation to provide for the per- 
perpetuation of such camp for the benefit of generations of campers to come.. 

Anyone who establishes an educational institution, such as a summer camp, 
should not consider it solely as an asset that may be sold to the highest bidder 
whenever convenient. 


Says who? 

If you don’t agree with some of our 
authors, why not write and tell the 
Editor about it. We’ll be glad to have 
a little excitement — it keeps us from 
brooding about the fall-out! 


Camping has numerous spokesmen. They are often specialists in various 
allied fields but few are actively engaged in actual camp operation, or are 
members of the camping profession. 

Is it not about time our profession produced more leaders qualified to speak 
for organized camping? The camping profession is now of age but will not 
occupy its rightful place until camp directors exhibit more self-confidence and 
speak with assurance on all matters pertaining to organized camping. 

For much too long we have looked to people outside the camping 
movement for new ideas. Tried and proven practices are frequently discarded 
in favour of some new idea which has yet to be tested in practice. If we would 
wait awhile, the advocates of this “latest thinking” may return with still another 
idea which they will urge us to accept as the ultimate truth. 

The camping profession must do more of its own thinking if organized 
camping is to fulfil its unique mission in the field of education. 


Toronto^ Canada^ December 1961 


IS 




A Chilly Week-End But 
Worth Repeating . . . 

WINTER 

CAMPING 

Marion W, SearleSj Captain 
1 Winnipeg Air Rangers 


A February week-end spent in the 
snow was a great experience for the 
1 Winnipeg Air Ranger Flight. Sleep¬ 
ing and cooking out in the open 
culminated three year of various ex¬ 
periences of winter hiking and camping. 

Because of the newness of winter 
camping as a group activity, especially 
for girls, and also because of the lack 
of authoritative written material on 
the subject, the group went into this 
activity rather slowly. 


As a background the Rangers and 
their leaders had a good many years 
of lightweight and established camp 
experience. In the two previous winters 
the Rangers had camped at the Girl 
Guides Camp using one of the houses 
on the site as a base. This house was 
constructed for summer use but had 
an oil heater. The first year they 
slept and ate indoors and enjoyed 
winter hiking and snowshoe hikes ac¬ 
ross country. The following year they 
cooked some of their meals over an 
open fire out of doors and went on 
more snowshoe hikes. 

Finally the group began looking for¬ 
ward to the challenge of a complete 
week-end spent out of doors. This 
was finally achieved. 

Once the decision had been made 
the Rangers were very busy making 
the necesesary plans and doing re¬ 
search on suitable clothing, adequate 
but lightweight menus and transport¬ 
ation. 

In the clothing department it was 
recommended that layers of light¬ 
weight woollen clothing were best, 
preferably worn over one-piece long 
woollen underwear. The outer gar¬ 
ments should be of nylon or gabardine 
or other similar smooth material and 
should be roomy. It was agreed that 
stretchy ski slacks were not suitable for 
camping activities. They wore gab¬ 
ardine mitts over woolen mittens, wool 
hats or toques and silk or woollen 
scarves. Each girl had moccasins under 
which they wore three to four pairs 
of woollen socks and took a complete 
change of socks with them. It was 
agreed that flannel pyjamas were the 
best for night wear with a sweater 
worn over top. 

Each girl took two sleeping bags, 
a woollen blanket and two ground 
sheets and slept on spruce boughs. 
Everyone was warm all night with 


14 


Canadian Camping 



just the occasional shiver when they 
mo\ecl. 

The one problem was keeping the 
feet dr}^ when around the fire. While 
the snow had been cleared for an 
area of fifteen feet around the fire 
there was still snow frozen on the 
ground. This of course melted near 
the fire. Boy Scouting books recom¬ 
mend low rubbers over moccasins to 
prevent dampness. However, none of 
the girls owned these or could borrow 
them and it seemed a fairly expensive 
item for a limited use. Therefore, our 
group decided that plastic overshoes 
might work and they were quite suc¬ 
cessful. The girls on cook patrol took 
their moccasins ofT and slipped the 
overshoes on over their socks when 
they were preparing the meals. Girls 
not wearing these did not come near 
the fire area. 

In the menu department, one-pot 
meals were stressed as well as pocket 
stews. They were very proud of the 
fact that all the supplies for the week¬ 
end with the exception of two loaves 
of bread and six quarts of milk could 
be packed and carried in one haver¬ 
sack with room left over. The 
milk and bread were bought at a 
store about a mile from camp. It was 
from this point we left our cars and 
walked into the camp as there were 
no cleared roads. 

^Ve had arrived at the campsite 
before noon and after a hot lunch of 
chile con came over warmed ham¬ 
burger buns the Rangers set to work 
preparing the camp.site. Some collected 
wood for a wood pile, others cut spruce 
boughs for sleeping and others cleared 
snow away for the sleeping and cook¬ 
ing area. 

The sleeping area was a horseshoe¬ 
shaped clearing surrounded by about 
four feet of banked snow. The banks 
were covered with ground sheets to 



prevent snow sliding down into the 
sleeping area. As it was very fine and 
clear the girls chose to sleep in the 
open with no cover over their heads 
but this proved to be a mistake. It 
was soon found that winter as well as 
summer can bring unexpected damp¬ 
ness as very damp snow fell after they 
were in bed. The ground sheets and 
the placement of the site in a sheltered 
area prevented a great deal of damp- 
ne.ss but the snow falling on the faces 
was slightly uncomfortable. However 
no one was uncomfortable enough to 
stay awake and no one developed colds 
the following week. It was agreed that 
next year they would string up a 
ground sheet for shelter regardless of 
the cloudless sky. 

Snowshoe hikes were the main 
activities for Sunday morning but un¬ 
fortunately had to be curtailed a cer¬ 
tain amount because of a sudden windy 

turn to page 30 


Toronto, Canada, December 1961 


15 






Try This in Your Craft Shop 


BLUEPRINTING 

What it is 

This is a way of making a print of 

these simple instructions. 

What you need 

A. Architect's blueprint paper for day¬ 
light printing — It comes in large 
rolls. When you order it have the 
paper cut and packaged for you. 
Typewriter paper is 854" x 11" and 
is a good size. Do Not Expose the 
Paper to the Light, Keep it wrapped 
in dark paper. 

B. Printing Frame —a little larger than 
the paper that you use. A strong, 
wide picture frame can be reinforced 
at the corners, and fitted with a ply¬ 
wood back: Turn buttons fastened 
to the four sides of the frame will 
clamp the back in place. 

C. Half a pound of Potassium Bichro¬ 
mate. (Keep in a glass jar.) 

A. Place a pressed specimen (anything 
that makes a good silhouette and 
that isn’t very thick) against the 
glass of your frame. Have the stems 
come to the bottom edge of the 
frame. Arrange a pleasing picture. 

B. Place architect’s blueprint paper 
with the sensitive side toward the 
glass, on top of your arrangement. 

If necessary, put a sheet or two of 
cardboard or several sheets of news¬ 
paper between the blueprint paper 
and the stiff plywood back before 
clamping it in place. The closer the 
contact between the glass, the speci¬ 
men and the blueprint paper, the 
better the blueprint. 

G. Turn glass toward the sun until the 
paper turns from cream to blue and 
then to cream again. 


a leaf or pressed specimen, by following 



D. Take the paper from the frame and 
immerse in the developing solution 
as quickly and evenly as possible. 
Leave for at least five minutes—^more 
doesn’t matter. The solution is made 
by dissolving one heaping tablespoon 
of Potassium Bichromate crystals in 
two gallons of water. 

E. Wash your print thoroughly in clear 
water and dry between newspapers 
under slight pressure. (A pile of 

magazines or books.) Change the 
papers two or three times to remove 
the excess water. Press at least over¬ 
night in newspapers and under a 
weight. 

Experiment with scraps of paper 
to get various intensities of blueness. 
Less exposure give a lighter blue, 
more exposure gives a deeper blue. 

Brown daylight printing paper may 
also be obtained. It makes very 
effective prints also. 

Reprinted from 

The Young Naturalist 


16 


Canadian Camping 



WHEN THE HEART 
STOPS - - - 


by 

Kirk A. fV. Wipper 


Stoppage of breathing is an emer¬ 
gency which may be dealt with 
through artificial respiration. Much 
has been done to publicize, teach and 
propogate the most desirable methods 
of achieving revival of breathing. The 
recent direct, expired air, rescue or 
mouth to mouth method is an example. 
However the matter of dealing with 
arrest (the subject of this article) has 
not yet received wide public attention 
because it was generally considered to 
be an emergency out of the reach of 
the la^TTian. Fortunately a simple teach¬ 
able method called “closed chest car¬ 
diac massage” is now available and 
should be taught to persons thoroughly 
versed in artificial respiration and first 
aid. 

Cardiac arrest may occur following 
heart attacks, drowning, choking, elect¬ 
ric shock, drug sensitivity, inhalation 
of certain chemical vapours and other 
accidents. It can be detected by dis¬ 
appearance of the pulse beat. Prompt 
action is, of course, essential as the 
human brain can survive only three 
or four minutes without oxygenated 
blood. It may even be necessary, there¬ 
fore, to apply artifical respiration and 
closed chest cardiac massage at the 
same time. 

Essentially the method is that of 
squeezing the heart by pressing on the 
breast bone. This provides circulation 
to nourish brain tissues which deterior¬ 
ate quickly without the vital blood 


supply. It also helps to maintain the 
tone of the heart without an operation. 
The method is assisted in an uncon¬ 
scious person because the chest of such 
a patient is remarkably flexible. 

The result of applying pressure to the 
sternum, or breast bone, is to squeeze 
the heart between it and the vertebral 
column, thereby forcing blood into the 
circulatory system. When pressure is 
released the chest expands and the 
heart refills. In most cases the pulse 
can be felt as a result of this procedure. 


THE METHOD 

1. Place the patient in a supine 
position and, if possible, on firm 
support. 

2. Raise the chin and extend the 
neck as for the direct method of 
artificial respiration. This step is 
to establish an open airway. 

3. Place the two hands on the ster¬ 
num, one above the other. The 
heel of the right hand is placed on 
the lower part of the breastbone 
over the heart. The left hand is 
placed on top of the right and both 
are pushed down with a quick, 
firm thrust, hard enough to push 
the chest in from one to three 
inches. This pressure should be 
vertical and exerted at the rate of 
60 to 80 times per minute. The 

turn to page 34 


Toronto, Canada, December 1961 


17 


Urban Programmes Are Not . . . 


Dty CAMPING 

by Sigrid Day 
Executive Director, 

St. Andrew's Youth Centre, Montreal 


“Are you going to Camp?’*—“Where 
is your Camp?”—“Do you like your 
Camp?”—are typical questions many 
children between the ages of 9 and 16 
answer to-day as naturally as they do 
those about school. Fathers—on the 
principle of the conditioned reflex— 
mentally reach for their cheque books, 
anxiously or resignedly, and mothers 
almost automatically visualize yards 
and yards of name tapes when the 
word “Camp” hits them. This word 
implies, and naturally so, leaving home, 
going away, going to the country, and 
doing this that can only be done in 
the country. 

Camping is now an accepted insti¬ 
tution in our culture, with its pro¬ 
cedures and practices and prescribed 
tested roles for personnel. Manu¬ 
facturers and retailers in various fields 
are alert to this and annually make 
huge profits from necessary clothing, 
equipment, food, etc. Insurance Com¬ 
panies have set up special protective 
coverages. Public Health officials pro¬ 
vide pre-camp services, pediatricians 
and psychologists promote camping. In 
other words “Camping” is here to stay. 
It is a part of our way of life, and is 
fast becoming a part of our economy. 

On the premise then, why is there 
so much confusion as to the purposes 
and procedures of Day Camp? We 
seem to be still at the stage, even with 
may years of experience behind us, 
where most organized and supervised 


day time activities engaged in by 
school age children in the summer 
months come under the heading of 
Day Camp. 

Urban programmes can be very use¬ 
ful tools in working with young people 
but these should be dignified by an 
appropriate title based on clear cut 
aims and functions. Visits to museums, 
factories, swimming in in-door pools 
and supervised craft activities make 
good programmes and can stand on 
their own merits, particularly when 
operated on sound social group work 
principles, but they do not expose 
children to out-door living and do not 
aid in the development of skills for 
out-door life, except indirectly through 
the process of maturation. 

The American Camping Association 
in its Day Camp Standards has a clear 
definition, which at the risk of over- 
empliasis, I quote:— 

“Definition: Organized Day Camp¬ 
ing is an experience in group 
living in a natural environment. 
It is sustained experience carried 
on during the daytime under the 
supervision of trained leadership. 

Camping provides a creative 
educational experience in co¬ 
operative group living in the out- 
of-doors. It utilizes the resources 
of the natural surroundings to 
contribute significantly to niental, 
physical, social and spiritual 
growth.” 


18 


Canadian Camping 




“Natural environment and sustained 
experience” are the corner stones of 
Day Camping. What is needed to pro¬ 
vide the maximum benefits for this 
type of experience? 

1. A camp site in natural surround¬ 
ings within easy daily travelling 
distance from the Base (approxi¬ 
mately within a radius of 25/30 
miles — travel time 1to 2 hours 
daily.) 

2. Accessible water for swimming, 
swimming instruction and water 
safety education. 

3. Sufficient acreage to allow for 
breaking up the camp into small 
“tent” groups as well as space for 
organized sports with scope for 
hiking and nature lore. 

4. Facilities for the building of cook- 
out fireplaces, rest areas and 
toilets. 

The above are simply the essential 
Structural bones. Senior staff, including 
the Gamp Director, should have pro¬ 
fessional background but must have 
had camp experience. Camp-Counsellor 
ratio will vary with the special needs 
of the camper group but should in the 
main follow the standards laid down 
by the Association. It goes without 
saying that the Water Front Director 
and his staff must have the required 
qualifications, skills and experience. 

Official clearance from the approp¬ 
riate Public Health Authorities is ab¬ 
solutely essential before opening a new 
camp site or re-opening a former one, 
to ensure safety of both drinking and 
swimming water, and with this should 
go a report on the local drainage system. 
(Periodical reports during the summer 
on water safety levels should be a 
must.) If toilet facilities are lacking, 


portable chemical units are available 
on a rental basis in most large urban 
areas. 

As well as providing a healthy en¬ 
vironment for growth and development 
with fun, Day Camp can, and often is, 
utilized to prepare a child for the 
wider experience of country camping 
and separation from home. For many 
children this may be the first time of 
really experiencing a form of con¬ 
tinuous country living. Many will be 
quite new to cook-outs, siestas under 
the trees and swimming, and many 
will never have known what roughing 
means. The satisfaction of walking 
barefoot in the grass and feeling the 
warm friendly earth under one’s toes 
can do much to make the country, 
and leaving home, seem first of all less 
threatening and then a future treat. 
Bugs and worms which on television 
and city pavements may cause some 
apprehension when encountered face 
to face become interesting and 
friendly. Certainly one small boy 
known to me won a major victory on 
the day he returned to the Centre, 
clutching a bottle containing a not too 
lively fish, saying “Gee, you know I 
really gave this minnow artificial 
respiration.” Many like him can take 
this first step between the independ¬ 
ence of residential camps because of 
this foretaste of experiences and their 
security in the knowledge that as they 
move on they will be able to cope, 
and they have learned that strangers 
can be trusted and that home will be 
there after camp is over. 

It would seem then that organiza¬ 
tions running Day Camps and main¬ 
taining adequate standards must con¬ 
centrate on educating the Public to 
their services. We have a commodity 
to sell, let’s not hide our wares, let 
us plan a more agressive sales approach. 

—• 


Toronto^ Canada, December 1961 


19 



m vom LmARV ... 


Reviewed by Mrs. G. W. Flynn 


lOc Crafts for Kids — Jane Wardwell 

Of the many books written on 
crafts made from almost nothing, this 
one tops them all. Miss Wardwell has 
a very neat way of describing methods 
of making and doing, and conveniently 
divides the activities into age groups. 
Carving, Whittling, Paper Ornaments, 
Decorations for every season, are 
among the suggestions, as well as in¬ 
structions for making an assortment of 
interesting pictures that could well be 
adapted to camp use. Concise instruc¬ 
tions, well defined and clearly illus¬ 
trated, help to make this a valuable 
handbook for the crafts instructor. 
G. R. Welch & C., Etobicoke, Ont. 
$2.95. 


Resources for Bible Study and Prayer 
by Grace Loucks Elliott 

Don’t let the title of this one imply 
heavy reading, for within its seventy- 
two pages is a comforting source of 
worship material for many occasions 
and in many different situations, camp 
or elsewhere. Some of the prayers and 
salutations we know well* but Mrs. 
Elliott has gone further in outlining in 
simple style ways of using and study- 
the Bible, acquainting ourselves with 
the Prophets, and has gathered prayers, 
readings and litanies under such head¬ 
ings as Prayers for Peace, Opening and 
Closing Prayers, Prayers and Readings 
for Leadership, for a Candlelight Ser¬ 
vice, for Installation of Officers, World 
Fellowship and Social Responsibility. 
Usable words, these, that would bring 
meaning and grace to daily chapel or 
Sunday Services. Y.W.C.A. of Canada. 
571 Jarv^is Street, Toronto 5. $1.75 


Living Like Indians— 

Allan A. Macfarlan 

For the camp programme director 
who takes seriously the rituals of our 
various Indian tribes and translates 
them into Pow-Wow Nights, “Living 
Like Indians,” by Allan Macfarlan, 
contains the kind of authentic informa¬ 
tion which would make that pro¬ 
gramme a success. Mr. Macfarlan has 
lived among Indians of North America 
to gather from old Indian chiefs, medi¬ 
cine men and shamans, new informa¬ 
tion to show how these people lived, 
worked and played. Mr. Macfarlan 
has a twofold purpose in providing a 
handbook for leaders and chiefs, as 
well as a guide to any outdoors persons, 
young or old, man, woman, boy or girl. 
Not only does he concentrate on orien¬ 
tation and campcraft, pow-wow ma¬ 
terial, exploring and trailcraft, he also 
gives an unusual amount of attention 
to that very important part of nature 
programming—^Adventure in Darkness. 
Two chapters on Indian land and 
water games make one regret that such 
a valuable book has never been writ¬ 
ten before. 

“Living Like Indians” will serve to 
create a favorable attitude toward the 
Indian’s way of life. His wisdom in 
coping with the vast natural surround¬ 
ings is well portrayed. The reader is 
left with a sense of admiration for 
the Indians’ methods and is challenged 
to learn and try the seasoned tech¬ 
niques in a modern camp setting. 

G. R. Welch & Co. 

Etobicoke, Ontario 


20 


Canadian Camping 




WHAT IS NEW IN CAMPING? 

Do not believe all you hear and read 
about new trends in camping. It is 
not necessarily true. In fact, what is 
new about camping? If we are correct 
in assuming that camping is living a 
simple life out of doors, my answer is 
not much, and thank goodness. Nature 
is not changing very fast. We are told 
that our climate appears to be getting 
gradually warmer, or is it cooler ? Of 
this I have no knowledge, but I do 
know that day continues to follow 
night, the seasons rotate as they always 
have, birds fly south at the approach 
of winter and return with the spring, 
in fact, all we know of nature is un- 
clxanging. During winter and summer, 
we find the same things to enjoy in 
the out of doors that we have always 
known. On our canoe trip last Septem¬ 
ber, the only changes we saw were 
those made by man. But our apprecia¬ 
tion of the beauties of nature and the 
deep satisfaction gained for close con¬ 
tact with it, seems to grow as we 
return year after year to our favourite 
haunts. If we can impart to our 
campers some of the deep enjoyment 
we have known in our contact with 
nature and life out-of-doors, they will 
have gained something of camping’s 
unique contribution. 

If nature has not changed, perhaps 
some Camp Directors have. They may 
be less interested in camping than their 
predecessors were twenty-five or fifty 
years ago. This, some believe, is hap¬ 
pening. If so, it is certainly a tragedy, 
for a director who has little personal 
interest in camping, nature and life 
out of doors, is not the best one to 
provide these things for his campers. 

Is it not likely that many children 
today are getting more interesting ex¬ 
perience camping with their parents in 
the many campsites now provided for 
public use than they get at their camp? 
Some of these children gain their first 
experience living in a tent and cooking 
over an open fire while camping with 


their parents. Can organized summer 
camps not capitalize on this awakened 
interest in camping by offering an even 
more challenging experience? 

F. M, Van Wagner, 
Camp Nominingue 


Woodfire and Candlelight 

To An Old Camper 

Mary S. Edgar 

You may think, my dear, when you 
grow quite old 

You have left camp days behind; 

But I know the scent of wood-smoke 
Will always call to mind 
Little fires at twilight 
And trails you used to find. 

You may think someday you have quite 
grown up 

And feel most wordly wise; 

But suddenly from out the past 
A vision will arise 

Of merry folk with bare brown 
knees 

And laughter in their eyes. 

You may live in a house built to your 
taste 

In the choicest part of town 

But some day for the old camp togs 
You’d change your latest govm, 

And trade it all for a balsam bed 
When the stars all night look 
down. 

You may find yourself grown wealthy 
With all that gold can buy 

But you’ll know wealth ne’er can 
purchase 

Those days ’neath an open sky 
With fun, a sense of freedom 
And camp friends standing by. 

For once you have been a camper, 
Something has come to stay 

Deep in your heart forever. 

Which nothing can take away; 

And Heaven can only be Heaven 
With a camp in which to play. 


Toronto, Canada, December 1961 


21 


GREETINGS FROM THE PRESIDENT C.C.A. 


We hope you had a wonderful camping season during the summer of 1961. 
If you had a good season the success was due to you, the-^director, and/or to 
the staff you had with you. 

Sometimes the director can be credited with the success of his camp and at 
times we can definitely credit the good camp to a good staff. Of course without 
a wise and experienced director a camp cannot function as it should and the 
same can be said of the staff. They are both necessary and one cannot do 
without the other. 

As the counsellors are in constant contact with the campers we have to 
depend on them to “do the job”. On the other hand, there must be direction 
and coherence from above. Both have their place. They should have their 
place but they should not stay in their place. The director should never be too 
busy to keep a personal contact with his campers, to be close enough to know 
each child and to note his progress or lack of it. On the other hand, the staff 
or counsellors should not be kept to their own special fields but should be 
allowed to know what is going on in the larger camp area. 

As the director, do not think for a moment you know all the answers. 
You are advised to keep close to the campers but you can never have the time 
nor the chance to be as close to them as the counsellors are. Make use of their 
experience and their knowledge of the campers and the camp. In other words, 
do not “box off” the jobs. You are all working for the campers and the camp. 

The counsellors appreciate being brought in for their impression. They 
will present some good ideas. Arrange for regular sessions with them. Call them 
brain storming sessions if you will but use their knowledge; grow; keep abreast 
of the needs of the campers, the needs of the camp and the counsellors. 

We do not take enough time to survey the past, the present situation, and 
the plans for the future. We must grow; we must change and improve our 
services as time goes on. Our campers are going to change and we should 
control the change and not let the changes come outside of our plans. 

We must keep our camps as camps and not as summer resorts or hotels. 
There is the element of camping which is basic and we must not lose that. 
At the same time we will be pressured to make changes and changes will come 
in spite of anything we can do. We must guard against those which will alter 
the basic camping experience. 

Changes will be made to suit others unless we have a plan for our own 
camp, a basic philosophy of what we are trying to do in our camp. What is 
the philosophy or plan of your camp? Have you an idea of what you are trying 
to do? Is it written down anywhere? Keep growing, but do not forget the 
basic elements of camping which should not be changed. Use your staff to help 
you maintain a close contact with the camp, the campers and the needs of all. 

You need your staff and the advice of your staff just as much as the staff 
needs you, the director, to head up the organization. Make use of the staff 
when planning ahead. Provide leadership but do not do it alone. Do it as 
a team. 

KEN MURRA Y 

President, Canadian Camping Association 


22 


Canadian Camping 



1962 NATIONAL CONVENTION 

AMERICAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

Greetings to members of the Canadian Camping Association. The American 
Camping Association is aware of the great part played by membei-s of the CCA 
in Camping. The New York Section, as host to the 27th National Convention 
of the American Camping Association, salutes you. 

The programme committee of this Convention recognizes the broad interests 
of camping people, the differences of programme emphasis, and the present day 
trends which influence camp programme and enrollment. 

With a program covering the critical questions that face everyone engaged 
in camping today, this Convention will be one that will be long remembered. 
Never in our history has there been a time when cooperation and social aware¬ 
ness were more important. 

The speakers and leaders of seminars and small groups will be colorful 
personalities of experience, with much opportunity for everyone present to 
participate. 

New York is an exciting city! The programme committee is taking 
advantage of this and plan a cook-out luncheon in Central Park at the Tavem- 
on-the-Green (available to those who register in advance, for accommodations 
are limited), a visit to the United Nations for those who are interested, and 
other unusual programme facets. 

And, there’s much, much more for you at A.C.A.’s 27th National Convention. 
You will refresh yourself with new ideas—re-examine your own programme— 
make new friendships and enjoy old friendships renewed. 

Important people in camping will meet on the Sidewalks of New York 
during the week of March 6-10th, 1962. All of New York is waiting to 
welcome you. 

Information about registration will be sent to all members of the O.C.A, 
shortly. 


A Praffer for Bill 

Please, God, 

Give me wisdom and judgment and 
understanding; 

Give me knowledge of when to help, 
and when to leave him alone 
to solve his own problems. 

Keep me 

From overemphasizing activity 

And underemphasizing silence and 
solitude. 

Help me 

To awaken in him 

a wholesome curiosity about this 
world; 

To be sensitive to and interested in 
others. 

Help him 

To meet his disappointments and 
failures; 

To accept his successes. 


Help him 

To be glad and anxious 

to do a little more than his share; 

To be willing at times 
to be part of the chorus 

and not always the centre of the 
stage. 

Help him 

To know he is loved and needed 
for the little things he does; 

To be self-reliant 

but to know when to ask for help. 
Help him 

To grow and to stand on his own 
two feet 

And to be happy about it. 

Theodora Jane Van De Mark, 

"ii Prayer for Bill**, Childhood Education, 
Vol. 25, January, 1949, p, 209, 


Toronto, Canada, December 1961 


23 



UCOON SYSTEM 
OF DISPOSAL 
FOR 

SOMMER CAMPS 

ly, M. Walkinshaw, P.Eng,^ Director, 
Environmental Sanitation Branch, 

Ontario Department of Health 

E. Sanderson, PMng., Head Public Health 
Engineering Section, 

Environmental Sanitation Branch, 

Ontario Department of Health 


The problem of sewage disposal in any 
community is always a difficult one but 
this is particularly true at a summer 
camp. In many of the areas most 
desirable for camping, the land is well 
wooded and studded with lakes, and 
the terrain is rough. Frequently there 
is only a thin soil cover over the rock 
which slopes steeply down to the lake. 
As camp population increases the dis¬ 
posal of human wastes and waste water 
from the lanudry sinks and kitchens 
becomes more and more difficult. 
Where septic tanks and tile beds have 
been installed, and have become over¬ 
loaded as the camp season progresses, 
the soil becomes clogged with solids 
from the poorly settled effluent from 
the septic tank, and refuses to accept 
any more liquid. The excess liquid 
drains toward the lake, creating wet 
and objectionable areas along its route. 
This is sewage which has received very 


little treatment, and is highly contam¬ 
inated. It presents a serious health 
hzuard on the ground on its passage 
to the lake, and there is a danger 
that it may contaminate the lake with 
pathogenic organisms which may reach 
the camp drinking water intake, or the 
bathing area. 

Even though some form of disinfect¬ 
ant such as chlorination is used to 
protect drinking water supplies, never¬ 
theless it must be emphasized that 
some of the organisms causing virus 
diseases can resist fairly high dosages 
of disinfectants for long periods of 
contact time. It is therefore essential 
that the camp director ensure that 
every possible barrier to the trans¬ 
mission of disease through drinking 
water is fully utilized. In certain cir¬ 
cumstances a sewage lagoon may pro¬ 
vide an economical means of safe 
sewage disposal for asummer camp. 
When circumstances are favourable the 
construction, operating and mainten¬ 
ance costs will be low and the efficiency 
of the sew'age treatment high. 

The purpose of this article is to 
discuss the factors which favour the 
use of lagoons. It is assumed that 
detailed planning and design will be 
done by competent sanitary engineers, 
who will evaluate the various factors 
involved in individual cases. This 
article does not give design data to 
enable a design to be drawn up for a 
particular case. 

Before attempting to describe the 
sewage lagoon, or waste stabilization 
lagoon as it is often called, however, 
the objectives and processes of proper 
sewage disposal will be described briefly. 
Proper sewage disposal by avoiding 
contamination of the ground or the 
pollution of water erects a necessary 
barrier to the transmission of diseases 
through the medium of this discarded 
human waste. It also prevents the 


24 


Canadian Camping 


creation of nuisances and objectionable 
conditions such as obnoxious odours 
and degraded streams. 

A satisfactory method of sewage 
disposal then will not: 

(1) Permit sewage to lie exposed on 
the ground where it will be access¬ 
ible to children. 

(2) Permit sewage to lie exposed on 
the ground where it will be access¬ 
ible to rodents or insects. 

(3) Contaminate a drinking water 
supply. 

(4) Pollute any bathing water, fishing 
ground, or surface water used for 
recreational purposes. 

(5) Create any nuisance or unsightly 
condition. 

There are several fairly simple 
methods of sewage disposal which will 
accomplish these objectives economic¬ 
ally. Among these might be included 
the earth-pit privy, the septic tank 
and tile bed or underdrained filter, 
and the waste stabilization lagoon. For 
any given set of conditions one of 
these will probably be more suitable 
than the others. 

Sewage contains less than 1/10 of 
1% of solid material. About half of 
the solids are organic in origin and half 
are inorganic. About two-thirds of 
the solids in the sewage are dissolved in 
the liquid phase of it, and the re¬ 
maining one-third is suspended in the 
liquid. In the natural cycle of decay, 
bacteria and other minute forms of 
life utilize the organic materials in 
the sewage in their own metabolism, 
and in this process, which is an oxida¬ 
tion or burning process, the unstable 
components of the sewage are stabil¬ 
ized. The organisms referred to re¬ 
quire free dissolved oxygen, and if 
this is used up the aerobes are replaced 
by anaerobes and the decay process 
then generates objectionable gases such 


as hydrogen sulphide and methane. 
The various sewage treatment methods 
are merely controlled applications of 
the same natural forces. An attempt 
is made to establish ideal conditions 
for the processes such that the time cf 
transition to a stable material will be 
shortened. 

Where soil conditions are such that 
sewage cannot be disposed of by privies, 
or in septic tank systems where the 
liquid is absorbed into the ground, it 
follows that there must be a treated 
effluent which must be discharged to 
waste, to a watercourse or a lake. The 
quality required to the effluent may 
depend to some extent on the type of 
receiving stream or lake. Where the 
volume of effluent is small, and it dis¬ 
charges to a large fast flowing stream 
of many times greater volume than 
that of the effluent itself, the standard 
required may be much less than where 
the stream is no longer in volume 
than that of the effluent itself. Where 
the effluent discharges to a lake, there 
may be a very considerable dilution 
factor, but the proximity of drinking 
water intakes or swimming areas rnay 
still require that an extremely high 
degree of purification be attained. In 
any system of sewage treatment where 
an effluent is dicharged to waste, the 
aim is to oxidize the unstable organic 
matter to stable products, to produce 
an effluent which does not have a high 
oxvgen demand on the receiving water, 
and to reduce as much as possible the 
numbers of pathogenic bacteria which 
were in the original sewage. In any 
installation where an effluent will be 
produced the agency responsible for 
stream pollution control should be 
consulted. 

Coliform bacteria are selected as an 
indicator of the whole bacterial popu¬ 
lation in human wastes because they 
are cheaply and fairly quickly identfi- 
able in the laboratory. A properly 


Toronto, Canada, December 2961 


25 



functional oxidation pond can reduce 
the coliform population of the sewage 
to 40% of what it was originally by 
the time the lagoon discharges to the 
stream. From this it may be assumed 
that a similar reduction will take place 
in the number of disease-producing 
organisms which may be in the original 
sewage, but it will be observed that 
this still leaves scope for pathogenic 
organisms to be discharged to the 
stream. If the stream is likely to be 
used by other people for drinking or 
swimming within a short distance of 
the point of discharge, chlorination of 
the effluent is required. 

The waste stabilization lagoon is 
essentially a shallow basin in which 
raw sewage is exposed to the action 
of bacteria and protozoa under aerobic 
conditions which will encourage the 
rapid transformation of the putrescible 
organic materials in the sewage into 
stable inoffensive compounds. The 
lagoon contains what may be thought 
of as a living society in perfect balance. 
In the water of the lagoon will be 
found organic compounds in various 
intermediate stages between instability 
and stability. Feeding on this organic 
material are masses of aerobic bacteria 
and protozoa. In rich abundance in 
the water are microscopic green plants 
called algae. These tiny plants utilize 
the energy of the sunlight which pene¬ 
trates the shallow w^aters of the lagoon 
to produce plant structure by photo¬ 
synthetic action. Simultaneously oxy¬ 
gen is released by the algae. Additional 
oxygen is obtained from the air at the 
water surface. This oxygen is essential 
to the metabolism of the bacteria and 
protozoa and enables them to carry 
out the digestion of the organic matter. 
It will be appreciated that anything 
which interferes with any part of this 
series of actions and reactions will 
destroy the entire process. The bac¬ 
teria will adjust their numbers to the 
available supply of food but they can 


only utilize this food if algae are 
present in sufficient number to provide 
the necessary' amount of oxygen. If 
the sewage happens to contain some¬ 
thing highly toxic to the bacteria they 
will die and the process will cease. 
If a very heavy cover of ice forms on 
the lagoon the amount of light will be 
greatly reduced and the photosynthetic 
action slowed proportionately, and 
again the action of the whole society 
will be affected due to the lack of 
oxygen. In fact the time when there 
is the greatest danger of odours arising 
from a lagoon occurs in the late spring 
when the ice is just coming off the 
lagoon. At this time the water has 
been shielded from the sun for several 
months by the ice cover and anaerobic 
conditions may have become estab¬ 
lished in the lagoon due to the deple¬ 
tion of oxygen. Then for a week or 
so the objectionable gases referred to 
earlier may be produced until algae 
growth is re-established and the oxygen 
balance restored. In a summer camp 
this should not be a problem since the 
lagoon is in use at the most favourable 
time of the year. Many lagoons are 
in use in very severe climates the 
whole year round and give entire satis¬ 
faction. It is probably correct to say 
that the present state of understanding 
of lagoon design was reached through 
the numerous installations in North 
and South Dakota and in our Prairie 
Provinces where the winters are very 
severe. 

One of the difficulties with a lagoon 
in a summer camp is that at the be¬ 
ginning of the season the lagoon may 
be standing empty, in which case the 
wastes will spread over the area of 
the pond during the first two or three 
weeks’ operation and may not attain 
sufficient depth to promote the growth 
of algae, prevent weed growth on the 
bottom, and prevent odourous con¬ 
ditions arising. This difficulty may be 
overcoriie, either by leaving the pond 


26 


Canadian Camping 



full from the previous season if possible 
(taking leakage and evaporation losses 
into account) or alternatively by filling 
up the pond with water before the 
start of the season. When a lagoon 
is first started up, the establishment of 
proper conditions can be hastened by 
providing a small deeper sea area 
around the inlet pipe which will fill to 
the right depth quickly before allowing 
the liquid to cover the bottom of the 
entire pond. 

In some locations with high annual 
evaporation and some loss through 
ground seepage, it may be possible to 
contain the entire season’s output of 
sewage from the camp without any 
overflow going to a watercourse. 
Ground seepage should only be per¬ 
mitted, however, where there is no 
danger of polluting the reservoir of 
ground water which supplies another 
community with its drinking water. It 
would usually be preferable to locate 
the pond in impervious soil, or to 
render a sandy soil impervious by 
lining the pond in order to overcome 
the difficulty mentioned above, of ob¬ 
taining sufficient depth in the early 
weeks of operation. 

Selection of a method of sewage dis¬ 
posal for a summer camp will depend 
largely on the following factors:— 

(1) The volume of sewage to be dealt 
with, including any special wastes 
such as those from laundry opera¬ 
tions and kitchen wastes. 

(2) The general configuration of the 
ground. 

(3) The location of toilets, ablution 
rooms, kitchens or laundries, in 
relation to water supply sources 
or to the lake. 

(4) The depth and absorptive capacity 
of the soil. 

(5) The depth below ground surface 


of the watertable, or any imper¬ 
meable layer either of rock or clay 
soils. 

Before undertaking the design of 
any sewage disposal system the camp 
directorate should consult the appro¬ 
priate health authorities. Their ap¬ 
proval of the installation is necessary^ 
before it can be operated. 

When considering the possibility of 
a sewage lagoon, one or two additional 
factors are involved: 

(1) The area of land available. 

(2) The characteristics of the water¬ 
shed to which the effluent will 
discharge. 

(3) The proximity of drinking water 
intakes or bathing areas to the 
point of discharge of the effluent. 

(4) The extent of afforestation in the 
available land. 

(5) The proximity of other residential 
communities. 

(6) Selection of a site open to the 
maximum available sunlight ex¬ 
posure, and not too sheltered from 
wind action. 

(7) Direction of prevailing winds. 

In comparing the merits of the sew¬ 
age lagoon with the other possible 
methods, construction operating and 
maintenance costs will be one of the 
main factors. It should be emphasized 
here that no attempt should be made 
to economize by utilizing a convenient 
depression and calling it a sewage 
lagoon. Maintenance of correct operat¬ 
ing depth is vital to efficient operation, 
and the surface area which this entails 
may or may not coincide with the 
area available in the convenient hollow, 
but most probably not, 

turn to page 32 


Toronto, Canada, December 1961 


27 


CAMP SUBSIDIES 

(Mrs^ Agnes Mutchler 

WHAT - FROM WHOM - HOW MUCH 


Before becoming Director of the Junior League Camp in 1948, Mrs. MuUhler was a 
volunteer and for two years a paid worker in the field of recreation. Since 1956 she has 
been year round Executive^Director of the Junior League Camp which is subsidized by the 
Junior League of Montreal Inc. 


Organized Camping is a leisure time 
experience for people ranging in age 
from 3 to 90 years. Our Camp Direct¬ 
ories list fees ranging from ‘no fee’ to 
$100.00 per week. Obviously a camp 
cannot operate on notliing, while it is 
easy to spend more than $100.00 to 
provide the kind of stafT, buildings and 
equipment which seems to be required 
for present day campers. Subsidies of 
various kinds make it possible to pro¬ 
vide camping for the middle and 
lower income groups. These subsidized 
camps arc not necessarily exclusively 
for poor people but they certainly 
must not be poor camps for people. 

In the Camping Associations, we 
tend to confuse both ourselves and the 
public with our somewhat arbitrary 
descriptions of camps which receive 
subsidies and those which are privately 
financed. The adjective ‘organiza¬ 
tional’ is confusing because we are all 
organized camps. When we classify 
camp as ‘Private and Non-Profit’, there 
is the insinuation that all Privte camps 
are immediately profitable. No one 
refers to ‘Private and Non-Profit 
Schools’. Wc do a disservice to the 
public with this category. Well-mean¬ 
ing people sec in a camp investment 
a way to put their money to work for 
them with a minimum of time involved 
— 8 weeks — and an investment which 
immediately brings in the difference 
between a fifteen dollar fee and that 
of one hundred dollars. Nothing could 


be farther from the truth. We must 
be more realistic and provide the pub¬ 
lic with a true picture of the costs and 
hazards of camp investment. Several 
years ago our New England neighbours 
used the word ‘subsidized’ when refer¬ 
ring to low fee camps because they 
thought it gave a more accurate pic¬ 
ture of the financing. 

It is almost certain that any Can¬ 
adian Camp charging less than $40.00 
per week is partially supported by sub¬ 
sidies. The value of these subsidies 
can be appreciated when we figure 
from private camp budgets, or our 
personal financial experience, the 
amount of money they represent. Sub¬ 
sidies are provided by one or more of 
the following: 

Public or Private Welfare groups 
Provincial or Municipal funds for 
campers, equipment or tax re¬ 
bates 
Churches 
Service Clubs 

Women’s Clubs or private dona¬ 
tions 

The subsidies provided are varied 
but all tend to relieve the financial 
burden. Here are some of the areas: 

1. PERSONNEL 

Some sponsoring groups draw their 
total staff from the parent organization 
on a voluntary basis. Since personnel 


28 


Canadian Camping 



is reckoned at about ^ of the total 
budget, this is obviously a teriffic sub¬ 
sidy. As the need for specialists in 
health, program and administration 
grows in importance, there may be a 
factor of diminishing returns — but 
that is not part of this article. 

Organizations such as the Boy 
Scouts and Girls Guides have Head¬ 
quarters’ staff, either volunteer or paid 
workers, who train and advise on camp 
volunteer help. 

Group Work Agencies may or may 
not charge staff salaries to the Camp 
Budget, rather regarding it as an ex¬ 
tension of their City Community 
Service. 

2. FOOD 

Quantity buying of food reduces 
costs somewhat for camps with a 
reasonably large population. Donations 
of provisions for less than wholesale 
prices are not as frequent as they were 
but still form part of the subsidy for 
some camps. 

3. PROPERTY 

Some organizations are presented 
with gifts of land for the camp-site. 
Any knowledge of real estate values 
shows the value of such a subsidy. The 
donor occassionally provides a tax fund 
and in several Provinces welfare 
camp land is free of taxation. 

4. BUILDINGS 

Service Clubs can frequently be pre¬ 
vailed upon to give buildings. “We 
could not take Mary Jones this year 
for lack of space”, is the plea from 
a subsidized camp and YOIKS! an¬ 
other cabin. It is not that simple of 
course and it is sometimes very diffi¬ 
cult to obtain the specific type of 
building needed. Plumbing facilities 
for instance are expensive — necessary 
but not a very popular subsidy. 


5. EQUIPMENT 

Sports equipment is not too hard 
to come by but other activity supplies 
and equipment are more difficult. Gifts 
of modern hotel-size kitchen equipment 
are not common but they are impor¬ 
tant for low cost cooking and satisfied 
kitchen staff. 

6. UPKEEP OF PROPERTY AND 
EQUIPMENT 

Volunteers may donate their time 
skills to maintaining three items. The 
value of this subsidy depends entirely 
on the craftsmanship and efficiency of 
this group. However, in opening or 
striking camp, this has actual mone¬ 
tary value. 

7. OFF CAMP SUBSIDIES 

Office space, equipment and profes¬ 
sional secretarial help is frequently 
provided by the sponsoring groups. 
Members of Boards may provide free 
technical assistance or do volunteer 
office work connected with intake and 
records. 

There are some camps which do not 
account accurately for the subsidies 
they receive. The value of these sub¬ 
sidies must be considered in setting 
the camp fees. No private camp could 
sur\dve some of the careless accounting 
and haphazard planning that is too 
frequently the case of the low fee 
camp. Financial records can provide 
Board members and the sponsors with 
the exact costs of the financial operation 
for the previous year or years, and a 
reasonable basis for budgeting for the 
next season. Such costs, when accur¬ 
ately set out, can prove startling, for 
it is hard to realize that camp costs 
have followed only too closely the 
hideous rise in the cost of living. 

Settting camp fees is an increasing 
problem. In reviewing the situation 
the sponsors may find that they re¬ 
quire more subsidies if they are to 

turn to page 31 


Toronto, Canada, December 1961 


29 





GUMPERT 


HAS EVERYTHING 


S. GUMPERT CO. OF CANADA, LTD. 

31 BROCK AVE., TORONTO LE. 1>5T58 

HtfMesa/e 
Medk^ii 
Sitpp/ies • • • 

Medical Equipment 
First Aid Requirements 
Drugs and Medicines 

• 

Low Price* Fa*t Servico 

• 

STARKMAN CHEMISTS 

459 Bloor Sh W. - Toronto 
WA. 2 - Twenty-One - Twenty-One 


WINTER CAMPING 

from page 15 

snow storm. This sped up our prepara¬ 
tions for home. We were afraid that 
the three-mile camp road might close 
in with snow and that the highway 
could be icy so we wanted to drive the 
105 miles in the daylight. 

It was agreed that the week-end 
was a great success and has become a 
highlight of our year’s activities. The 
leaders agreed that the Rangers were 
quite capable of tackling it again and 
that the winter camping presented no 
hazards compared with the task of 
driving to the site on the Trans-Canada 
Highway and this is not crowded in 
the winter as in the summer! 

As a sum up, there were nine 
Rangers and two Guiders who spent 
from Saturday morning to Sunday 
afternoon 105 miles from the city in 
the peaceful beauty of our forests for 
a cost of $5.00 per person including 
gas for the cars. The temperature 
ranged from 15-20°F above and this 
was a little too warm. Temperatures 
closer to O^F would have been more 
satisfactory and of course no falling 
snow. It was a challenge we tried, 
proved successful and are anxious for 
next winter to try it again. In the 
meantime, we will gain more ex¬ 
perience in lightweight trip camping 
in the intervening months. While 
winter camping can not be a true 
lightweight camp because of the bulk 
of necessary clothes and sleeping gear, 
it was felt that every effort should be 
made to keep it as lightweight as 
possible, particularly if any distance 
has to be walked to reach the site. 
Much time is saved and more free¬ 
dom felt if guides are not laden 
down with bulky tents and equipment. 

Atr Rangers is one of the four branches of 
Girl Guides for the girls between ages 
15-21 years, 

—• 


30 


Canadian Camping 






from page 29 

provide camp services for the low in¬ 
come group. They may decide to move 
into a higher income area. This is a 
dangerous move because it may mean 
competition for campers with the 
Private Gamps. There is a compara¬ 
tively small number of people in the 
higher income groups in Canada who 
can afford the fee that must be charged 
if the private camp owner is to receive 
any kind of a decent return on the 
money invested. 

As usual this year, more children 
attended subsidized than private 
camps. This trend is increasing. It 
brings up questions that have to be 
answered by members of the Camping 
Associations. Are we providing sub¬ 
sidized camps for the right people? Are 
subsidized camps realistic about the 
costs of their camps? Are such things 


as seven day camps costing more than 
the value of the experience? Have we 
really defined the place of the sub¬ 
sidized and private camps in the total 
field? Are we being helpful or ad¬ 
versely critical of each other? Hav-e 
we thoroughly explored the use of the 
camp-sites for longer periods — of 
making them pay part of the subsidy? 

Organized camping should develop 
rather quickly as more leisure time is 
thrust upon Canadians. Camping is 
in competion with a host of other ex¬ 
periences for the recreation dollar. Des¬ 
irable camping practices are essential to 
provide quality camp, and subsidies 
must be large enough to make this 
possible. It is important that we keep 
our camp programmes creative and 
the administrative cost absolutely real¬ 
istic if organized camping is to flourish 

—both subsidized and no-subsidized. 

—• 


WHEN PLANNING YOUR 
1962 

ADVERTISING 
remember 

REDBOOK MAGAZINE 

Redbook Magazine's base circulation 

3,450,000 

Canadian Circulation 218,536 

For more than forty years, directors of summer camps, summer 
schools and trips have found advertising in the Camp Directory 
brings a successful response. 

The Camp Directory appears in six issues — 

January through June 

For details and information write or telephone— 

Ethel F. Bebb 

REDBOOK MAGAZINE 

230 Park Avenue • New York 17, N.Y. 

Murray Hill 6-4600 



Toronto, Canada, December 1961 


31 



LAGOON SYSTEMS 

from page 27 

Some summer camps are sufficiently 
isolated that something less than com¬ 
plete treatment of the sewage would 
be acceptable, since the partly treated 
effluents will not be re-used. In these 
cases it is possible to build the lagoons 
much smaller than would be required 
for complete treatment, thus applying 
a bigger load of organic matter to a 
smaller area. When this is done there 
is a partial reduction of the suspended 
solids, the organic load, and the bac¬ 
teria. It is emphasized however, that 
a partial treatment should only be 
undertaken on the basis of a very com¬ 
prehensive assessment of all the cir¬ 
cumstances, and should be done only 
with the acquiescence of the Health 
Department and any other interested 
agencies, (such as Water Resources 
authorities, Conservation, and Forestry 
or Agriculture Departments where 
these are concerned). Discharge of a 
partially treated sewage means that 
some stream will receive a high organic 
and partly putrescible loading which 
it may not be big enough to contain 
without a major change in the char¬ 
acter of the fish and other aquatic 
life in the stream. In this connection, 
it should be noted that the overflow 
from an oxidation pond contains a 
high suspended solids content due to 
the algae which are carried over. It 
is sometimes necessary, where a high 
quality effluent is required, to pass it 
through a sand filter to remove the 
algae. Chlorination of water contain¬ 
ing algae causes the death of the algae 
as well as the bacteria, and odorous 
conditions are then likely to arise, 
owing to the decomposition of the 
dead algae. 

The initial cost of construction of 
an oxidation pond is by no means neg¬ 
ligible, particularly if the area has to 
be cleared of trees, and the terrain is 
rugged, but it may well compare 


favourably with the cost of septic tanks 
and tile beds, or underdrained filters. 
Once constructed it is relatively simple 
to operate and maintain, maintenance 
consisting mainly of preventing weed 
growth around the edge of the pond. 
In larger lagoons serving permanent 
communities, variation in the depth at 
different seasons is often practised in 
order to take full advantage of the 
available light for algae growth, and 
sometimes to contain the winter flow 
when anaerobic conditions predominate 
in the pond. In the case of a summer 
camp installation, however, it is not 
always so necessary to have an outlet 
arrangement which permits the depth 
to be controlled. As pointed out pre¬ 
viously, in fact, it may be difficult 
during the early weeks of the season 
to obtain sufficient depth at all, and a 
simple pipe overflow at the maximum 
level of the lagoon may be all that is 
necessary. The lagoon should be round 
or square in shape and not too elon¬ 
gated, with the embankments rounded 
at the corners (where a rectangular 
sliape is adopted) to avoid stagnant 
pockets and accumulations of surface 
scum. Surface water should normally 
be excluded from the lagoon, although 
it may be useful at the beginning of 
the season to assist in providing the 
necessary water depth. Thus a struc¬ 
ture which can permit or exclude the 
entry of surface water as desired, may 
be a useful feature. The lagoon should 
be located as far as practicable away 
from the inhabited quarters at the 
camp, as well as from other com¬ 
munities. A location should be selected 
which is away from the various areas 
used for camp activities, where possible. 

Although it has been emphasized 
earlier that full assessment of the 
factors involved should be made by a 
competent sanitary engineer, it would 
be well for the camp proprietor to 
visualize for himself what would be 
entailed in the construction of a lagoon. 


32 


Canadian Camping 



He should have a fairly accurate pic¬ 
ture in his mind of what the finished 
lagoon would look like, particularly 
with regard to size, so that he can 
judge for himself whether or not it is 
a practical possibility. For this purpose 
it is proposed to give here some idea 
of the type of construction involved. 

To obtain a preliminary idea of the 
size of the lagoon, it may be assumed 
that at least one acre will be required 
for each 300 camp residents. Thus if 
the camp is for 300 people the net 
size of the lagoon would be at least 
220' by 200'. For 200 people it would 
be at least 200' by 150' and for 100 
people at least 150' by 100'. These 
are the dimensions of the water sur¬ 
face, and additional area is required 
for the construction of embankments. 
The maximum depth of liquid to be 
allowed is 5', above which an addi¬ 
tional 2' should be allowed for free¬ 
board to absorb wave action which 
will take place when the winds are 
strong. The minimum operating depth 
of 3' should be reached as quickly as 
possible. The top of the embankment 
should preferably be 8' to 10' wide if 
it is planned to use tractor driven main¬ 
tenance machinery. Embankment 
slopes should be 1 vertical to 4 or 5 
horizontal on the inside, and 1 vertical 
to 3 horizontal on the outside. It will 
be seen that this is quite a substantial 
embankment, though much of the 
material for it can probably be ob¬ 
tained from excavated material inside 
the lagoon area. The bottom of the 
lagoon should be as level as possible 
and there should be a depth of some 2' 
of soil above the level of rock after 
excavation has been completed. 

Consideration will have to be given 
as to whether the site which is avail¬ 
able is above or below the residential 
areas. If above, it will be necessary to 
pump the sewage from the lower end 
of the sewer system to the level of the 


lagoon. The force main carrying the 
raw sewage should discharge into the 
centre of the lagoon, the pipe discharg¬ 
ing vertically upwards or horizontally 
into a central depression. Any ditching 
which may be necessaiy to prevent 
surface run-off from getting into the 
lagoon must be taken into account. The 
type of soil in the area will have a 
considerable bearing on the cost, par¬ 
ticularly if it is extremely sandy. In 
this case it may be necessary to draw 
in clay material for lining the lagoon 
to make it impervious. This is a point 
which should not be overlooked, as 
most lagoon failures have resulted from 
inability to keep sewage in the lagoon. 
The lagoon area should be declared 
out-of-bounds to other than the camp 
staff. It should be fenced if thought 
necessary for safety reasons. 


CLOSED OCEANS 

fro7n page 12 

3. We can co-operate in public re¬ 
lations. We all stand together. One 
bad act on the part of one person in 
one camp reflects on all persons in all 
camps. If we are to get results with 
mass media such as T.V., radio, mag¬ 
azines, newspapers, we need to make 
a united approach. 

4. We can co-operate in research. In 
Harvard University they have been 
conducting research in the psychology 
of learning. One night, quite late one 
of the men who worked in the lab. 
returned to check up on a piece of 
apparatus. As he entered the lab. he 
overheard these words from the plump¬ 
est and smartest of the white mice: 
‘*rve got this guy so conditioned that 
all I have to do is press a button and 
he feeds me.” We need to do research 
in the field of camping. We need to 
find out who’s doing what and to 
whom? A good example of co-opera¬ 
tion was the social planning council 
1959 study of 22 agency camps. 


Toronto, Canada, December 1961 


33 



5. We can co-operate in evaluation. 
Self-appraisal should be continuous. We 
cannot be like the little boy who when 
he was asked, “Are your hands 
washed?” replied, “Yes. I washed them 
yesterday.” 

In camping wc should hav’e no place 
for futilitarianism. This is an Austra¬ 
lian term meaning avoidance, at all 
costs, of rocking the boat. The fiitili- 
tarian finds safety in the middle of the 
road, and in the unsinkability of the 
unrocked boat. He doesn’t see that 
progress comes from the friction of 
ideas. “Thus the futilitarian team, safe 
in its uniform mediocrity, rows in per¬ 
fect unison its unrocking boat, em¬ 
bedded in the middle of a concrete 
road, and encouraged in the illusion 
of movement by the passing traffic.” 

Evaluation involves threat. You may 
ha\*e to change. You may have to give 
up something. Some might even have 
to get out of the camping game. 

Evaluation should be in relation to 
agreed-upon objectives. 

E\'aluation should not be merely 
judgmental, something to edge out 
competitors or to cancel out the faulty. 
Here again we need co-operation. How 
far are you willing to go to help 
another camp come up to standard. As 
far as providing consultation? As far 
as providing finance? As far as pro¬ 
viding leadership? 

6. Wc can co-operate in creative 
ideas. What is the next break¬ 
through in camping? Will there be 
something for the physically handi¬ 
capped, the senior citizen, the mentally 
retarded, the emotionally disturbed? 
Will the break-through come in the 
field of family camping? Will we try 
“Go-it-alone” camping? Gould wc do 
something in the field of inter-faith 
camps? Perhaps the break-through 
should be in international camps? If 
we are really concerned about the 
people in other parts of the world why 


shouldn’t we have campers coming 
from various parts of the world? Why 
shouldn’t we want our Canadian 
campers to have the opportunity of 
rubbing shoulders with campers from 
India or the Congo or Hong Kong? 
To sum up —^There are three levels in 
camping — property, programme, 
people. The most important level is 
that of people. Each person is im¬ 
portant. Each person is unique, very 
special. A person is unique not be¬ 
cause of his ideas but because he has 
his own life history. Most of our ideas 
are not original. Some of them might 
be as old as Plato. But each person 
has his own life history and that be¬ 
longs to him and him alone. Each 
person has his basic drive, his psycho¬ 
logical needs, his feelings, his sensi¬ 
tivities, his goals. But the core of each 
individual’s being is his relationship to 
God and his fellow men. In this realm 
of man and his relationships to God 
and his fellow man, there are thrilling 
new oceans to be opened up. 



WHEN THE HEART STOPS 

from page 17 

fingers do not exert pressure. 

4. When pressure is released the 
hands may be lifted a fraction of 
an inch from the chest. 

5. The operator may take up position 
on either side of patient, which¬ 
ever is more convenient. If pos¬ 
sible it is better for the operator 
to be higher than the patient to 
reduce tiring. In this case the 
arms may be held rigid and some 
of the body weight used in apply¬ 
ing pressure. 

6. One hand is sufficient for appli¬ 
cation of this method to a child. 

7. In some cases, if available, an 
acceptable patent airway may be 
used to insure passage of air into 
and out of the lungs. 


34 


Canadian Camping 


8. If the dual problem exists, i.e., 
stoppage of breathing and cardiac 
arrest, the following procedure 
should apply: Ensure an airway 
and then inflate the patient^s lungs 
with three or four quick deep 
breaths by the direct method. Now 
apply closed chest cardiac massage 
for about a minute after which 
the lungs must be ventilated again. 
This must be continued until some¬ 
one arrives to take over one of 
the other methods. 

Changes in the pupils of the 
patient’s eyes will indicate ad¬ 
justment in the patient’s condition. 
Pupils should remain constricted 
or, if not, should become con¬ 
stricted. Of course the usual pro¬ 
cedures in emergencies of this kind 
should be pursued. This applies in 
particular to summoning profes¬ 
sional aid as early as possible, with¬ 
out jeopardizing the patient’s life. 
The first problem is to deal with 
the patient’s immediate and most 
pressing needs always. The pro¬ 
vision of air in the lungs and the 
circulation of blood to brain tissues 
are absolutely mandatory. Are you 
and your staff prepared to supply 
these fundamental needs in case 
of an emergency? 


STUNT NITE SUPPLIES 

SKITS — 

MAKE-UP — 

COSTUMES — 

WIGS — 

ROBINSON PLAYS & COSTUMES 

LIMITED 

66-68 Wellington Street West, Toronto 1 


ASSISTANT DIRECTOR 

For girls’ camp in Muskoka. 
An excellent opportunity for 
the right person. All replies 
confidential. 

Camp Hilltop 

11 Lyonsgate Dr., 
Downsview, Ont. 


FOR SALE 

Hobart Semi-Automatic AM6 
Dishwasher 

Capacity upward of 250 people. 

Dishes by Maplex 
Complete serving for 400 people 
including cups, soup bowls. 6" and 9" 
plates, fruit nappies, serving dishes, 
etc. (Racks Available.) 

For further information, please contact 

MR. JOSEPH KRONICK 
CAMP WHITE PINE 
306 Warren Road, Toronto 7, Ont. 
Telephone: HU 7-2341 


BOAT ACCESSORIES 

for every type of Wafer Craft 

A complete line of equipment for every marine need carried in 
our showrooms — 

SAILS - HARDWARE - ROPE - CANVAS - PAINTS - VARNISHES 
GLUES and COMPOUNDS, Etc. 

TOM TAYLOR LIMITED 

The Best in Quality and Service 

81 Front Street East EMpire 3-8761-2 Toronto, Ontario 


Canadian Camping 


35 







No More Pots or Pans — 

No More Kitchen Headaches 


WE SWITCHED 

TO PAPER SERVICE 

by Joseph Kronick, 
Director, Camp White Pine, 


This past summer wc made a momen¬ 
tous decision—we decided to experi¬ 
ment with complete paper service in 
our dining room at camp. Naturally, 
wc were frightened of the cost, the 
consequences, and the public relations 
aspect, but were were intrigued with 
the possibilities, 

Wc switched to paper primarily be¬ 
cause of a desire to eliminate a labour 
problem. We wanted to avoid being 
dependent upon the whims and wishes 
of itinerant dishwashers. We also looked 
for a cleaner, quieter, more regularized 
operation- In our specific situation, our 
camp has grown to the point where 
our present dish-washing equipment 
was not really adequate for the job. 

In a nutshell, wc wanted to sec 
whether the “kitchen headache”, which 
is a potential plague to all of us in 
camping, could be somewhat alleviated. 

This past summer wc introduced and 
used sixteen different paper products. 
These included 5 oz. fluted juice cups, 
6 oz. cold drink cups, 7 oz. hot drink 
cups. We used two types of plasticized 
cereal bowls for soups, stews, and 
cereal. We al.so had a 6-inch manilla 


plate for dry desserts (pies, cake, bread, 
jam, etc.) and a waxed fluted dessert 
dish for wet desserts. For the main 
course, we used two different types of 
plates, one a plain white manilla plate 
for dry items, cold cuts, sandwich meals, 
hamburgers and hot dogs, etc., and a 
9-inch plasticized plate for all hot and 
wet items. We used three sizes of 
white serving tubs for hot cereals, soups, 
stews, vegetables, salads, and all our 
main courses. We also used 32 oz. 
waxed containers with plastic covers 
for jam, peanut butter, sugar, etc. 
(previously our kitchen staff had to 
fill our jam pots every morning; with 
these large sized containers, we filled 
them ev^ery third day). 

The results we found in using paper 
service were completely satisfactory. 
Sanitation was improved as each item 
was dispo.sed of after use. The noise 
level in the dining room was decreased 
considerably. There was much greater 
ease in table setting, service and clear¬ 
ing. Previously, eight waiters would 
require about 25 minutes to set the 
entire dining room. With paper service, 
one boy set the entire dining room in 
45 minutes. 


36 


Canadian Camping 




11 


“L/7y Paper Service Ended our kitchen headaches 

says Joe Kronick, Director of Camp White Pines, Halihurton, Ont. 


Camp White Pines introduced sixteen different 
Lily paper products last summer in a driv’^e to 
create a cleaner, quieter, more economically-run 
dining room. “The result of our experiment 
was completely satisfactor>’,” says Mr. Kronick. 
“d'he noise level in the dining room decreased 
considi rably. Previously, eight waiters required 
twenty-five minutes to set up our dining room. 
With Lily Paper Service, one hoy set up the 
entire dining room in 4.5 minutes. Added to this 
were savings in food, laundry, and transporta¬ 
tion costs on additional staff, and, of course, 
savings on detergents.” 


There's a complete range of Lily paper cups 
and plates to make your camp operation easier. 
These light-weight, economical Lily products 
mean an end to tedious dishwashing . . . save 
valuable .space, time and effort. The Lily range 
provides plastic coated, non-absorbent plates 
that can't soak up gravies or moist foods. 

Lily cups and plates are a safeguard against 
cross-contannnation . . . remove the danger of 
broken glass and china. Enjoy a carefree camp¬ 
ing operation this summer. 


LILY CUPS LIMITED 


Write to LILY CUPS LIMITED, Dept. CC 12-61 
for further information and samples. 


300 DANFORTH RD. 


TORONTO 13 








The saving on personnel this past 
summer was considerable. We were 
able to eliminate five people from our 
operation, three in the dishwashing 
end, and two waiters. For this coming 
season, we will be operating with ten 
less dining room and kitchen personnel 
as a result of paper service. 

Space being at a premium in our 
kitchen, and with the possibility at 
hand of completely eliminating our 
dishwashing operation, we will now 
gain a little over 300 square feet and 
an additional 8 feet of counter service 
space. Insofar as the supply of paper 
products is concerned, we would keep 
about a day’s supply on our kitchen 
shelves. Many of the items come in 
small enough containers so that they 
can be left in their containers with 
no possibility of dust or dirt collecting 
on them. 

The financial aspect of paper service 
is very easy to figure out. There are 
savings, not only on the salaries of 
the staff that are no longer needed, 
but there is also the item of food, 
laundry, and transportation for these 
same staff. In addition, the cost of 
chemicals, detergents, the annual re¬ 
placement of dinnerware, the repairs and 
annual check of dishwashing machine, 
the decreased cost of producing hot 
water (oil and electricity), plus the 
depreciation on the dishwashing unit 
itself, all have to be taken into account. 

Paper service to us has meant the 
elimination of some potential headaches 
and problems. It has also provided us 
with additional space for campers. By 
eliminating five people this past sum¬ 
mer, we were able to move some of 
our assistant specialty staff from camper 
cabins into the vacant spaces available, 
and at mid-season, we were able to 
keep some additional campers for the 
second month. The importance of this 
point to us is that we can eliminate 


ten people from our dining room and 
kitchen operation, and if we take in 
two or three more campers, we can 
more than offset the so-called addi¬ 
tional cost. 

Parent and camper response to the 
introduction of complete paper service 
has been excellent. We used the tulip 
design put out by Lily Cup and found 
that campers and staff immediately 
accepted this new service, recognizing 
the health and sanitation factors and 
cleanliness factors as being paramount. 
We circularized all the parents of our 
campers, informing them of our switch 
to paper products and, on numerous 
occasions during the summer, when 
parents had lunch with us, they com¬ 
mented favourably on the use of the 
paper products. 

The convenience of having a ready 
supply of paper items also forgoes the 
necessity of having anyone in the kit¬ 
chen or dining room in the evening. 
The person setting the dining room 
tables can do so and be finished very 
quickly after everyone finishes their 
supper. There are no dirty dishes that 
can be left in the kitchen when the 
staff have their evening snack (in our 
situation we have set up the staff dining 
room with a small cupboard holding 
the necessary paper and plastic items 
for the nightly snack so we no longer 
have to worry about irate kitchen help 
complaining of a dirty dining room). 

In summing up, I might say that we 
switched to paper concerned about 
cost, concerned about camper and 
parent reaction, and wondering whether 
it would really work. Without a shadow 
of a doubt, we have found that the 
cost is not that great and that the 
total switchover provided me with more 
free time to be a camp director, and 
with less concern about my kitchen. 

—• 


38 


Canadian Camping 



Tlie best tin:ie to talk to pai'ents 
about camps is wlnen tbey are 
tliinking of tlieii* cbilclren 


In Parents’ Magazine, your message gets through to the families you 
want to reach, at the most favorable time, and against a background 
of parent-reader confidence unique among major magazines. 

Parents' Magazine is devoted exclusively to the interests of families 
with children, and is read faithfully by the parents of 
over 4 V 2 million growing youngsters. 



For rates and details, write or phone 
Josephine E. Chrenko, Director, 

School and Camp Dept., PARENTS’ 
MAGAZINE, 52 Vanderbilt Avenue, 
New York 17, N. Y. (MUrray Hill 5-4400) 


For the 28th consecutive year, more camp 
advertisers use PARENTS’ MAGAZINE 
than any other national magazine! 


OMJit . . . 

The Aili'«»rtisors 


Ainrric.an Oamping Association . 6 

Canadian Caniping Magazine Co. 4 

Continental Casualty Co . 

Outside Back Cover 

r. Eaton Ca). Ltd . 

Eoodcraft Laboratories Ltd . 7 

Gil>bons Food Ltd . Inside Front Cover 

S. Guinpert Co. of Canada Ltd . 30 

Camp Hilltop . 35 

Lily Cups Ltd . 37 

Maple Leaf Plastics Ltd —. 8 

Milko Products Ltd . 5 

Parents* Magazine . Inside Back Cover 

Redbook Magazine . 31 

Robinson Plays & Costumes Ltd . 35 

Starkman Chemists Ltd . 30 

I'andy Leather Co. of Canada Ltd . 7 

Fom Faylor Co. Ltd . 35 

Vermont .Accident Insurance Co . 4 

(h R. Welch Co. Ltd . 8 

Camp White Pine . 35 


CLASSIFIED .ADVERTISING RATES: 
Twenty cent5 a word, minimum five dollars. 
.All classified payable in advance. Address all 
correspondence to “Canadian Camping”, 170 
Bloor Street West, Toronto, Ontario. 


Seeking to purcha.se existing camp or 
site prefer 100 mile radius Toronto. 
Write 608 Bathurst. 


F(3r Sale - l-'oriner site of Camp Israel, 
Lake Couchiching. Write 608 Bathurst. 


Whi»n Ordtirintf 

PLEASE REMEMBER 

Of711 

AMBVKKTMSEHS 


































INCREASING RESPONSE 

for 

CONTINENTAL’S CAMP-GUARD PLAN 



HAS GUARANTEED ITS 
AVAILABILITY 
FOR ANOTHER YEAR 


DISPLAY THIS SYMBOL 

STICKERS AVAILABLE FOR YOUR STATIONERY 


A choice of plans for all organizational, church and 
private camps providing broad medical expense 
protection for each accident and each sickness at low 
cost group rates for both campers and staff members. 

Put CAMP-GUARD on your programme. Display 
this symbol and let parents know your camp is 
covered. This symbol of outstanding coverage 
assures them you take added interest in your 
camper's welfare, by providing a CAMP-GUARD 
accident and sickness plan. 

Your local insurance agent will help you choose the 
right plan for your camp; or write our nearest office 
for full particulars. 


CONTINENTAL CASUALTY COMPANY 

INDUSTRY MARKETING & SPECIALTY DIVISION 

640 West Hastings Street 160 Bloor St. East 2100 Drummond Street 

VANCOUVER TORONTO MONTREAL 

Mutual 4-6381 WAInut 4-4692 Victor 9-5306 

607 Imperial Bank Building — EDMONTON — GA. 24642 
C.P.R. Building — WINNIPEG — WH. 3-8723 
670 Bentall Bldg. — CALGARY — AM. 3-1937 





