f 


OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 


CANADIAN CAMPING 



February 1958. Toronto, Canada 

























Manufacturers 


of 

“RUB-A-DUB-DUB 

the famous 


Quickset 

Quality 

Food Products 

3 MEN IN A TUB” 

HUNGRY? 

for Camps 


anywhere 

in Canada 

NO — 

They have their “CAMP-RITES” 

Jelly Powders 

Pudding Powders 

Pie Fillings 

Cake Mix 

Table Syrup 

Fruit Beverages 

Hot Chocolate 
Flavorings 

Soup Base 

Marmalade 

Jams 

Instant Puddings 

Fruit Pie Fillings 

Ready-to-go food units, packed in 4- 
man waterproof packages. Add water and 
your meal is prepared. 

We are now manufacturing "CAMP- 
RITE" foods and welcome your inquiries 

and a "look-see" at our exhibit at your 

conventions. 

Distributors 


Peak Frean Biscuits 
(Bulk Pack) 


GIBBONS 

Quickset 

7 ; for desserts 

Quality 

49 ADVANCE ROAD 

TELEPHONE BE. 2-1421 

TORONTO, CANADA 












EATONS 


with the right accessories 
for happy campingl 


Blue lake and rocky shore abound with 
songs, laughter, and campers garbed in out¬ 
fits from EATON’S Camp Centres. You’ll 
find T-shirts and sweatshirts bearing camp 
crests; regulation outfits of at least 14 well- 
known camps; trained staff members to help 
supply your campers’ needs. For informa¬ 
tion, write, call in person, or phone 
UN. 1-5111. 




The Boys’ Camp Centre 
EATON’S Main Store—Second Floor 

The Girls’ Camp Centre 
EATON’S Main Store—Third Floor. 


EATON’S of CANADA 


CAMP 


CAM 


/NAWENO^ 


Toronto, Canada , February, 1958 


47 




















No matter whether your campers 
bicycle, canoe, hike or ride horseback, 
you must have the best in Camping 
Insurance. And there’s only one BEST 
— sold by the pioneers in this essential 
coverage. 

Our policies cover 



• Polio And Dread Diseases 

• Epidemic 

• Dismemberment 


Medical Reimbursement 
Accidental Death 
Tuition Refund 


Best in 
Coverage 


THE SIGN OF GOOD SERVICE 

VERMONT ACCIDENT INSURANCE 

Rutland, Vermont, U.S.A. 

Member American Camping Association 


Best in 
Service 


BOYS’ 

CAMP CLOTHING 
AND 

EQUIPMENT 

Every effort is made by the staff of J. H. BEATTIE to be sure CAMPERS arrive at 
camp fully equipped as requested by each camp. All clothing, bedding and equip¬ 
ment is carefully selected for durability and fit, at the most reasonable prices. 

• SEWING ON NAME TAPES 

Each boy's name sewn on all clothing 
and equipment purchased, at no extra 
cost to the customer. Customer to supply 
the name tapes. 

Telephone 

HUdson 1 -4459 



«!• II. Beattie 


TORONTO 


430 Eglinton Avenue West 
Toronto 12 — Ontario 


48 


Canadian Camping 











CONTINENTAL 
YACHT SALES 

82 Mack Ave., Toronto 13 

OX. 8-3115 



Presents . . . 


Thu Hvimtii'ssl 


NORDBORG 

MAHOGANY BOATS 


The NK 15 is a one design class 
dingy built to Segenbaden Patent, 
without ribs or frames, of 5 / q " solid 
mahogany planking, edge nailed and 
glued. Outstanding features of this 
construction are extreme durability 
and beauty. Easy to clean and 
maintain. 


NOW: Over 250 NK 15 De¬ 
livered in Ontario. 

• 

Starting a new fleet? Replacing or 
adding to your present fleet? Go with 
the most popular and fastest growing 
class, the choice of many yacht clubs, 
camps and associations: THE NK 15. 

• 

See these and many others at Can¬ 
adian National Sportsmen's Show, 
March 14-22, Booth H 1 6A and H15B. 



THE NK 15 NORDBORG DINGHY 

"Canada's fastest growing class" 

Length: 14' 9" Beam: 65" Depth: 21" 
Sail: 108 sq. ft. Hinged Rudder Roller 
Reefing. 


SPECIAL DISCOUNT FOR CAMPS, 
CLUBS AND ASSOCIATIONS 


Toronto 3 Canada, February , 1958 


49 










VAUNCLAIR PURVEYORS LTD. 

50 Upjohn Road, Don Mills P.O., Ontario 
Phone: Hickory 4-6601 

“PORTION & QUALITY CONTROLLED MEATS” 

THE TREND TODAY IS THE PORTION WAY 

* 

A complete line of fresh or frozen meats cut to your exact require¬ 
ments. Ready for the oven, grill or stew. Consult us on your meat 
problems. We have a staff of experts at your service. 

"THE HOUSE OF PERSONALIZED SERVICE" 


OUR "VANGUARD" STYLE 
With Draining and Stacking Features 


ONCE AGAIN 


4 ' 'tyqtdfo 


375 Danforth Road 
Toronto 13, Ont. 


Our Usual Pre-camptime 
Offer of Substandards 


AT OUR USUAL 


Generous 

Discounts 


ALL STYLES 


MAPLEXWARE 

STYLEWARE 

VANGUARD 

MODERNE 


50 


Canadian Camping 













8£6l c vpvuvj c o;uo.ioj r 


IS 


oies 

•spnpojj 03iua)pw 
A|i|onb asai/j /o Aud 
uo uoi/duijoju; a;3|duioD 
joj Aopof sn aji-i/W 



3383110 ‘1S#3 1V3U1N0MI- ‘311N3AV 3H3NKW3iHn03 IZtr 

'011 (NH 31 SW 3 ) SH/ 0 IW 3 H 0 3 nDV)PW P»e 

01N0H01 ‘133H1S 39N0A V6HT 


UO|4|pUOD 

6 u;)jJOM do4 u; ^uej_ Duds^ 4|mq-A|jsdojd Aue 
sdoa>j 4| q4je3q S 43340 Jd pue sjopo S 34 euiui ;|3 
* * * Adusidjjjs jeuijou 04 S>JUB 4 pa66op-34SBM 
S 3 J 04 S 3 J oDuy sppjj u;ejQ pue s>juej_ D|4do$ 
jo uouejado ssjj-sjqrsoj; joj *M 3 iVAli 3 V P uo 

H3NV31D MN VI 31Id3S ODNV 


OS/D 



spnpoid 

o5ww^ 

ueAOid 


jauo3|3 doji asoajo oauy • fiuijoojdqjoyv -* 0 i 

a <!HM sao/D/oj sjoisAo aujzuaqjoppipDJDd oDUja)p W « 

P a l aa d daa >1 01 tuopixo-iiuy o|d 1!HM « H 3oa l9 a«MO|ipodAH umipos oDiua^Dyv « 
$ai|ddns uioojqsD^ o 3 uja>| 3 W # iudoj Ajpunpi osuia^pw « 

sapp.pasui 03 uia.)| 3 W • JapMoj doo S Ajpuno! oaiuajpvM • 

sjauoao sudj puo s*oj oaui^W • SI *°N punodiuo 3 

siua6y 6 uizi«iuo$ oaiua)pvY • |opads iauoao *WX'H oauiajpyY • 

spunoduio3 6 u. H sd M sso|Q oauiajpw • spunoduio3 Ajpunoi |Dpad S oauiajpyv • 
spunodui03 SuiqsoMqsiQ puo H oauia)p W • 

spunodu.o 3 a 

6u !N s D » H s.a a«!M«W ojuia)| 3W . 'S^. U 







FOR CAMPING EFFICIENCY 
& TIME-SAVING CLEANLINESS 

• PAPER TOWELS • PAPER SERVIETTES o PAPER CUPS 

• TOILET TISSUE • DISINFECTANTS • TOILET SOAPS 

• FIRE « CLEANING • WASTE 

EXTINGUISHERS SOAPS RECEPTACLES 



G. H. WOOD & COMPANY, LIMITED 


TORONTO - MONTREAL - VANCOUVER 
Branches Across Canada 



NEW CIRCULATION GUARANTEE BEGINNING 



MARCH 1958 ISSUE — 2,600,000 
CANADIAN CIRCULATION 182,925 

For Information about 
Camp Advertising and 
Rate Card Address: 

ETHEL F. BEBB 
REDBOOK MAGAZINE 

230 Park Avenue 
New York 1 7, New York 


52 


Canadian Camping 







































CANADIAN CAMPING 


Vol. 10 


FEBRUARY, 1958 


No. 2 


CONTENTS 


Accent on Safety...Oscar L. Pearson 55 

What Lies Ahead in Camping..Mary Hamilton 57 

Amid our History...A. J. Herridge 60 

Pre-Treat Your Staff for Receptivity...Haladner and Klein 62 

From the President’s Desk...F. M. VanWagner 64 

Wild Life Corner...Allen R. Wootton 65 

Will This Interest Your Campers.G. C. Toner 68 

It’s Time For Good Public Relations._.Lewis C. Reimann 69 

Duel Issues.... 70 

Stop Me if You’ve Heard This One.Marg Go van 73 

O.C.A. Conference Programme. 76 

O.C.A. Canoeing Awards. 79 

Audubon Junior Club. 83 

Sermons Under the Sun.Rev. Peter Slater 84 

For Your Camp Library.Dorothy M. Douglas 85 

University Extension Programme. 89 


Cover Photograph — Courtesy Camp Kilcoo 


CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

Address — 93 Yorkville Avenue, Toronto 5. 
WA. 2-0151 

Honorary President 

A. L. Cochra«», Toronto 


Past Presidents 

Taylor Statten, Toronto 
Dais L. Gass, Montreal 
Anne I. Vail, Montreal 
W. E. (Ted) Yard, Toronto 
Irwin Haladner, Toronto 

President 

F. M. VanWagner, Montreal 
Vice Presidents 

Mrs. T. H. McDonald, Winnipeg 
John Hoyle, Toronto 
Gertrude Moore, Victoria 


Treasurer 

W. J. C. Hcwetson, Montreal 
Editor , 

Mrs. G. W. Flynn, Toronto 

Publisher , Canadian Camping 
Fred Haiblen 

170 Bloor Street West, Toronto 
Tel. WAlnut 1-3147 


EDITORIAL COMMITTEE 

Barry Lowes, Chairman; Mr. W. E. Yard, Miss Mary Barker, Miss Margaret 
Govan, Miss Cay Scholes, Miss Eve Baxter, Mrs. Dorothy Douglas, Mrs. David 
Palter, Mr. Art. Birtles, Mr. Bruno Morawetz. 

“CANADIAN CAMPING" IS PUBLISHED FOUR TIMES A YEAR BY THE CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
CO. FOR THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION AT 170 BLOOR ST. WEST, TORONTO, ONTARIO. SUB¬ 
SCRIPTION prices: membership in the Canadian camping association includes Canadian 

CAMPING: TO NON-MEMBERS, 75 CENTS PER COPY. S2.75 PER YEAR. S8.00 FOR THREE YEARS. 

AUTHORIZED AS SECOND CLASS MAIL, POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT, OTTAWA, ONT. 


Toronto , Canada , February , 1958 


53 



























G.P.L. HEAVY DUTY melmac® TABLEWARE 
and ACCESSORY PIECES 


ATTENTION CAMP DIRECTORS 

This Tableware is produced to specifications set by The Canadian 
Government. Save up to 90% on replacements of dishes. 

If not available from your regular supplier please contact: 

GENERAL PLASTICS LIMITED 

150 Wellington St. W., Toronto - 1 1 1 7 St. Catherine St. W. Montreal 


54 


Canadian Camping 


















EDITORIAL 


ACCENT 

ON 

SAFETY 


“It’s too late to lock the stable door 
after the horse is stolen”. That’s an 
old axiom, but is more than applicable 
today when we speak of safety in 
camps. As a matter of fact, only an 
evening or so ago a group of camp 
directors discussed the advisability of 
Shooting the White Water on canoe 
trips. There were those who said it 
could be done by experienced canoe¬ 
ists; the consensus, however, was that 
it is much wiser to take precautions 
than to be regretful for the rest of your 
life; that in spite of careful and prayer¬ 
ful thought there is bound to be chance 
of a fatal accident. 

I hope no director will ever have the 
experience of searching for the body 
of a drowned boy in a river with swiftly- 
flowing rapids, and of notifying parents 
that their only son has been lost in this 
tragic way. I have had this experience 
on two different occasions, and they 
remain as nightmares in my mind for¬ 
ever. For this reason I shudder to see 
the lack of simple safety precautions 
when I visit some camps, especially in 
the waterfront area. 

No one person can have all the 
answers to safety, but I am hoping that 
a few of the following suggestions, if 
carried out, will certainly help maintain 
a safer camp. 

camp study of new safety equipment on 

Have you ever thought of appointing 
a small committee of two or three staff 
members whose duty it is to make a pre- 


j By Oscar L. Pearson, 

Professional Recreational Consultant 


the market, and who might be the ones 
to be responsible for a daily check of 
the camp area during the camping 
period ? 

Many changes have taken place in 
recent years in life-saving equipment. 
Inexpensive distress signals have been 
introduced, also life jackets with car¬ 
tridge flares which could be carried on 
over-night or long canoe trips. At the 
present time a government committee 
has been studying life jacket styles, 
their buoyancy possibilities and their 
new materials. These jackets will be 
on the market shortly. 

The committee could study this 
equipment at camp, whether or not the 
ring-buoys are in good condition, 
whether or not the camp is equipped 
with shepherd’s crooks, grappling irons, 
flare pistols, an adequate number of 
life jackets for non-swimmers, as well 
as light-weight ladders by which to 
enter and leave the water at difficult 
places. They might check the boats 
and canoes for repairs. 

Be sure that your camp has a contact 
with the Royal Life Saving Society, the 
Red Gross Water Safety Division or the 
Y.M.C.A. These organizations have 
splendid information on water safety. 
They can suggest films on safety as well 
as posters and lists of rules for display 
throughout camp. Their members will 
give safety talks if you will make such 
arrangements early in the year. 


Toronto, Canada, February, 1958 


55 



The committee could be responsible 
for marking out swimming areas for 
beginners, intermediates and seniors; 
for seeing that Life Guard Chairs are 
in place when there is no tower on 
dock; for ordering megaphones, and 
seeing that waterfront directors use the 
Buddy System, unless someone comes 
up with a better system for check-ups. 

Camp Grounds 

Go over the camp grounds with a 
fine-tooth comb to see that a check is 
made on broken glass, nails, barb wire, 
loose boards, steps and broken ladders. 

Craft Shop 

See that safety precautions are car¬ 
ried out in the craft shop; that sharp 
knives and scissors are put out of reach 
when not in use; that dangerous acids 
or poisonous solutions are kept under 
lock and key; that a strict watch is 
kept on motorized machines. 

Fire Precautions 

If a fire occurred in the dining room, 
assembly hall or cabin, would the cam¬ 
pers panic, or are they well trained by 
regular fire drill or instruction? See 
that in this instance dollars are not put 
before safety . . . see that the proper 
and necessary fire fighting equipment 
is on hand: a portable fire pump and a 
hose long enough to fight a bush fire or 
for use in case the camp water pressure 
fails; also sufficient fire extinguishers of 
the right kind, and pails of sand are in 
the kitchen to combat a grease fire. 

Sanitation 

Have the committe check on sanitary 
garbage disposal with screened-in areas 
to keep the fly menace at a minimum; 
also check on sanitary toilet facilities. 
Is there super-cleanliness in your food 
service department, among kitchen staff, 
and generally throughout the camp? 
Proper abolution basins for the campers 
should be placed near the dining room 
and hands checked for cleanliness before 
campers enter the dining room. 


A trained dietitian or an expert cook 
is paramount, one who is alert to 
cleanliness in the handling of food. 
Never economize on food. It should 
always be of high standard, the milk 
procured from a reliable dairy, and 
water from a properly chlorinated 
source. The kitchen help should be 
medically examined, the dishes pro¬ 
perly and hygienically washed, and the 
floors scrubbed daily. The kitchen and 
food storage : areas should be a source 
of pride when visitors are in camp . . . 
and at ALL other times as well. 

True, these may be old maxims to 
those who have been in the camping 
field over the years, but it is well to 
review them each year, and to present 
them to new folk in the profession. 
The success of any good camp depends 
largely on the constant vigilance of the 
personnel. When parents entrust their 
children to camp life they expect that 
every human effort will be made to 
insure their safety. 

I can assure you that it is a source 
of satisfaction when you open your 
camp to some hundreds of campers full 
of vim and vigour, to be able to feel 
confident that everything in human 
power has been done to make a SAFE, 
PLEASING and BENEFICIAL camp. 

Hospitalization 

There should be a medical doctor or 
registered nurses in the camp and they 
should be able to work with the proper 
equipment to take care of minor ail¬ 
ments and injuries, in a building re¬ 
moved from the centre of camp. Also 
make arrangements to get fast attention 
at the local hospital and with the local 
doctor. The committe should make 
sure that counsellors check campers for 
scratches, cuts, sunburn, colds, etc. 
There is another old saying about an 
ounce of prevention! 

— • 


56 


Canadian Camping 


What Lies Ahead 


in Camping? 

By Mary Hamilton 

Founder of Camp Tanamakoon 


An excerpt from Miss Hamilton’s 
forthcoming book, Recall of Algonquin 


What have summer camps to offer 
to the development of the youth of our 
country? 

It seems as if almost by accident, the 
camping movement has stumbled on a 
new venture in education, particularly 
important for the time in which we 
live. This is a mechanized age, and 
children, especially those who live in 
cities, are constantly surrounded by 
products of the age, radios, movies, 
television and cars. The desire to have 
more and more of these material things 
is overwhelming. It is interesting to 
note how the hum of the engine 
captures children just as it does their 
parents. On our northern lakes small 
boys and girls dash around in boats with 
outboard motors and are often indiffer¬ 
ent to learning how to sail a boat or 
paddle a canoe. In camp this is changed. 
A new set of values is established which 
is independent of costly mechanical 
inventions. 

Here in Canada with the North 
almost at our door, we have the chal¬ 
lenge of a different way of life, which 
relies on human skills and resourceful¬ 
ness rather than on possessions. 

Surely one hope for the future could 
be that all our young people should 
have an intimate experience of our 
unspoiled woods, and so develop a desire 
to conserve this natural wealth which is 


our heritage. This is not to belittle our 
material mechanized creations. These 
have their uses and values but they 
cannot take the place of canoe trips, 
the hike over the forest trail, the mystery 
of a night in the open and the rich 
discoveries in nature that may rest the 
mind and stir the imagination of the 
child throughout her life. 

One of the greatest values the cam¬ 
pers find in camp is the meeting and 
adjusting to one hundred or more 
people, and it is surprising how quickly 
some of them make this adjustment. 
Personal relations are not easy to mea¬ 
sure. It is simple to estimate a child’s 
progress in physical skills, learning to 
swim or handle a canoe, but it is a 
different matter to judge how well she 
learns to get on with other people. 
Much of her social learning probably 
comes from her friendship with other 
campers. She is frank and open with 
them in a way that she seldom can be 
with adults. One can recall the child 
who arrived rebellious at conforming 
and determined to wreck the camp, but 
who later came to look on it as a haven 
and a home. What made the change? 
Who can tell? There was the shy, 
withdrawn child, who as the summer 
advanced, blossomed into assurance, and 
the child who was afraid to be honest 
but discovered the courage to speak 
the truth. 


Toronto , Canada, February , 1958 


57 






A camp can provide the atmosphere 
where these things can happen. It is 
an atmosphere of trust, an atmosphere 
in which a child can grow into her own 
heritage and become the person she 
was meant to be. In this realm, there 
are infinite discoveries that will surely 
be made by camps in the future. Surely 
the time will come when our educational 
authorities will recognize the value in¬ 
herent in camping and make it a part 
of the recreational and educational ex¬ 
perience of every child in the country. 

There is another aspect of camping 
which has exceptional educational oppor¬ 
tunity. Our schools have become stream¬ 
lined. Never before have the methods 
of teaching ideas and intellectual skills 
been given so much official and finan¬ 
cial backing and this is good. At camp 
however, there is time and quiet to 
devote to human relations. In the small 
cabin group, as well as in the camp as 
a whole, the emphasis is on people. 
Even in camp activities the trend is 
away from competitive sports and toward 
the experiences of co-operation and par¬ 
ticipation. A camping expedition would 
not be possible except on this basis. To 
help children learn to live and work 
happily together is the great contribu¬ 
tion which camping has to offer to our 
generation. 

Many things enter into this. It has 
perhaps been evident as we told our 
story, how the emphasis has shifted 
from things to people, from the learning 
of skills to their meaning in the well¬ 
being and happiness of the child. Con¬ 
sistently to see everything in terms of 
what it means to the development of 
the child, is not easy, but it should be 
the basic aim of director and counsellor. 
Unless this becomes their central idea, 
the camp will have missed its unique 
opportunity. Programme, equipment, 
buildings must all be assessed and con¬ 
stantly appraised in what they are doing 
for the campers. 


The days of pioneering in the field of 
camping are by no means over, for there 
is still much we can do regarding the 
interchange of campers between coun¬ 
tries. This would help bring about the 
understanding which has to come if we, 
as nations, are going to learn to get 
along together. 

If a child can learn that different 
races all have likes and dislikes, long¬ 
ings and frustrations, just as she has, it 
is a big step in overcoming the barriers 
of fear, r hate and intolerance. All of 
these arise from lack of understanding, 
indifference and a feeling of superiority. 
This is one way of reaching out to the 
understanding of nations. When child¬ 
ren, as a group, learn to give and take, 
and have a basic knowledge of how to 
deal with disappointments, pride and 
hate, they will learn how to meet the 
bigger issues which arise in national and 
international crises. 

Recently there have been world¬ 
shaking events in the field of science 
and international relations. Space rock¬ 
ets and their potentialities have created 
a new fear. As I think of the role the 
camps can play, I find no other answer 
than that already expressed but that 
answer must be voiced more emphatic¬ 
ally and more seriously. 

As I look back on my twenty-eight 
years of experience, I still see a camp as 
the most unique opportunity one could 
possibly have of creating a pattern for 
the right kind of world, of learning how 
to live with people, people you like and 
some not so easy to like, of putting the 
interest of the community and the world 
before personal interest. 

True, camping’s unique role is to 
teach people how to live out-of-doors, 
but it has to teach children, while 
living out-of-doors, the art of living 
happily in a community and in a world. 
The out-of-doors is but a means through 


58 


Canadian Camping 


which to work. As camping people we 
have a tremendous opportunity and a 
corresponding responsibility. 

In camp you have a camper twenty- 
four hours a day, often for eight weeks 
at a time. She has little or no distraction 
from the outside world. She is living, 
working, playing with people her own 
age, learning skills, sharing fun and 
adventures. She is facing the common 
tasks that grow out of living together 
and she begins to do her part in the 
planning. She is given a chance to 
voice her opinion, help make decisions 
which take into consideration the com¬ 
fort and welfare of all concerned, not 
only her welfare. Her co-operative plan¬ 
ning gives her a sense of belonging, 
helps her develop initiative and respon¬ 
sibility for people as well as things. She 
begins to see that all people are impor¬ 
tant and to consider them and their 
rights. 

In activities, she is doing the things 
she loves to do with people who know 
how to do them. She is free, happy and 
therefore creative. She is putting into 
practice some of the things she has 
learned through discussion around the 
council fire, and has had the advantage 
of seeing them work. She has been 
learning to relate the problems of the 
world to problems in camp and com¬ 
munity, to trace the root causes and 
seek the answers. She is having the 
experience of trying to build in minia¬ 
ture the right kind of world. She real¬ 
izes that if this will work in camp, it 
should work in the community and the 
nation. Working along with others, she 
sees that when people become different, 
situations are different, and that people 
do not have to go on making the same 
mistakes. 

She has experienced how the pain of 
some trivial cabin friction can be swiftly 
dispelled when those involved are frank 


about it, and she realizes that the same 
ideas apply in much wider fields. 

Learning how to live in a community 
is definitely the most important role of 
camping but this role is not ours alone. 
We share it with the home, the church, 
the school and other educational insti¬ 
tutions. 

Imagine what could be done with and 
for children if parent, counsellor, teacher 
and camp director were of one mind 
regarding the High conception of their 
task and agreed on the basic truths 
which should be stressed in the educa¬ 
tion of these children. Suppose, for 
instance, through all our teaching our 
purpose was to develop the kind of 
people the country needs; people of 
integrity and conviction who know what 
their country stands for because they 
know what they stand for themselves. 

Think of a nation with the majority 
of its youth population trained accord¬ 
ing to these standards. What could such 
a nation not accomplish for this fear- 
ridden world? 

But the acceptance and practice of 
these standards must start with us as 
individuals. 

Unfortunately in our aim to make 
youth a happy time for our children, 
we are prone to become indulgent rather 
than wise. Thus, we have deprived 
many of them of the inner discipline 
which was their right and the source 
of strength required for leadership. 

Camping and education can develop 
such principles as honesty, the respect 
and understanding for the other person, 
the sharing of our resources with those 
who need them and the faith that can 
look forward without fear. 

Under these conditions there would 
grow up a moral force that would enable 
the nations of the West to meet the 

continued on page 72 


Toronto, Canada, February, 1958 


59 



Ruins of the Hudson s Bay Post at Michipicoten , 
which is shown across the river in the background 


AMID 

OUR 

HISTORY 


It is somewhat ironic that the final 
portion of the Trans-Canada Highway 
to be built in Ontario, will be in the 
Wawa (Jamestown) - Franz - Chapleau 
country, because through this same 
general area still runs the first “high¬ 
way” traversing Ontario in a northerly 
direction. 

On this highway from Lake Superior 
to James Bay, one can travel up the 
Michipicoten River into Manitowik and 
Dog Lakes. The next link is Crooked 
Lake, somewhat unique in that it has 
two outlets, one draining north to James 
Bay, the other to Lake Superior. Trav¬ 
elling north the next body of water 
reached is Missinaibi Lake, then down 
the Missinaibi and Moose Rivers to the 
saltwater shoreline of Ontario, James 
Bay. 

In “opening up” parts of a province 
by such means as new highways, often 
we are ignorant of the fact that our 
entry into the area is far from the first. 
Bulldozers rampaging through these 
woods, new bridges and paved roads, 
all lead writers to describe in great 
detail how in a few years “virgin” 
country such as this will be no more. 
They are correct, but how correct 
depends on what is meant in the phrase 
“virgin country”. If virgin is inter- 


By A. }. Herridge 3 
Reprinted from Sylva 

preted as “not yet used”, then they 
couldn’t be further from the truth. 

Regarding the area in question, one 
can read of development and travel 
dating back over two centuries. From 
one end of this route to the other, 
every portage and campsite is steeped 
in history. Portages are worn smooth 
with the footwear of countless Indians, 
explorers, missionaries and fur traders. 
Fortunately, not all the details are lost. 
History records many interesting items 
which add to the romance of this part 
of our Province. 

One of the least-described parts is 
the oldest inhabited place of them all, 
the Mission at Michipicoten, sometimes 
known as Michipicoten River, once as 
Michipicoten City and Fort Michipi¬ 
coten. 

In the white man’s history of Canada 
the village and the copperbearing ores 
of nearby Michipicoten Island were 
first known and recorded at the time 
of the founding of Quebec City. As 


60 


Canadian Camping 






usual, the seemingly fearless Jesuit 
Priests did the recording. 

Earlier, Michipicoten Mission was 
probably the most important halting 
place in the old Indian route from 
James Bay to the west. 

After the French settled Quebec, and 
the warlike Iroquois tribes found that 
frontal attacks were costly, they used 
this same waterway to make sneak 
attacks from the rear on the French 
settlements. The Iroquois were deadly 
enemies of the local Ojibway Indians 
who, in secret alliance with the French, 
laid an ambush at the mouth of the 
Michipicoten for an Iroquois war party. 

A pitched battle was fought half a 
mile from the Mission, in which the 
local men were said to have been the 
victors. The dead from the battle were 
buried on the banks of the river, and, 
even now, in times of heavy spring 
flooding on the river, bones are washed 
out as the river erodes the bank. 

Another mass killing which took 
place in the area, this time within a 
quarter of a mile of the Mission, is not 
so well known and the details are hazy. 

The story goes that a band of wan¬ 
dering Cree Indians came to visit the 
Hudson’s Bay Post opposite the village 
and caused a certain amount of dis¬ 
contented among the local Ojibways. 
One night, as the Crees were camped 
at the top of Simmond’s Hill, on the 
present road to High Falls, they were 
massacred to a man where they lay. 
The forty-two bodies were buried on 
the spot. 

The Crees were Anglicans and, when 
word of the killing reached the Sault, 
the church had the bodies exhumed and 
reburied in consecrated ground. 

Be the story entirely true or not, to 
this day it is possible to count the forty- 
two graves on the side of the Falls Road 
at the top of the hill. 


Although the Mission, or Fort Michi¬ 
picoten as it was then known, declined 
in importance as a trading centre in the 
latter half of the 19th century, it had 
been a major post for over 200 years. 

The French were the first to establish 
a post there. They were succeeded by 
the North West Company and finally 
by the Hudson’s Bay Company. 

At Big Trout Lodge in the Mission 
can be seen a map of Canada which is 
over 150 years old. In what is now 
Ontario there were only four places of 
sufficient importance to be marked on 
the map. These were Kingston, New 
York (later York and then Toronto), 
Oxford and the Mission at Michipicoten. 

At the time of the rush to the Michi¬ 
picoten gold fields in 1897, a land- 
speculating company acquired all the 
land at the Mission and laid it out in 
streets and 25-ft. lots. 

They renamed the place Michipicoten 
City and waited for a rich harvest which 
never came. 

The fact that the streets were laid 
out with a ruler without taking the 
contours of the ground into considera¬ 
tion did not contribute to this at all. 
It was simply that the gold rush petered 
out and so did the dream of Michipi¬ 
coten City. 

Recently, the Department of Lands 
and Forests had the site resurveyed. 

It is fairly evident that Cree and 
Ojibway Indians populated the Chap- 
leau area to some extent prior to 1776. 
The Hudson’s Bay Company records 
that in order to protect their fur busi¬ 
ness from the competition of the XY 
Company, forts were built throughout 
this area as early as 1776. 

History records that Indians from 
southern Ontario made two sorties into 
the Missinaibi Lake area many years 
ago to plunder and rob the local Indians 
of their winters’ fur catch. The first 

continued on page 75 


Toronto, Canada, February, 1958 


61 



While there is general agreement 
among camp directors that a pre-camp 
training programme is a great asset, 
not all camps are in a position to 
arrange one. Counsellors come from 
long distances, university exams, inter¬ 
fere, and other problems often prevent 
pre-camp meetings of staff in the city. 
There are, however, many important 
things to be said to the staff, to pre¬ 
pare them for camp, even before a pre¬ 
camp training period on the camp site. 
Matters of philosophy, organization and 
programme are, in reality, of an orient¬ 
ation nature. The importance of such 
material has been so well demonstrated 
that it hardly bears repeating. 


and large, the staff revealed that they 
had read the letters and were helped. 
This applied to experienced as well as 
to new counsellors, but the newer ones 
seemed more appreciative because the 
letters gave them some preview of what 
camp would be like. The philosophy 
of the camp expressed itself throughout 
every letter, and the interest in the 
camper and the counsellor could be 
felt in the informal friendly tone. When 
they got to camp, most staff members 
said that they thought the weekly let¬ 
ters had drawn them closer to camp 
and had given them a keen anticipation 
of a good summer. They were pre¬ 
treated for receptivity. 


PRE-TREAT YOUR STAFF 
FOR RECEPTIVITY 

By Irwin Haladner and Alan Klein 


In the past, one of the larger camps 
in Ontario, confronted with the impos¬ 
sibility of convening staff in the city 
before camp, tried to orient them 
through a series of letters, sent once a 
week. There were ten letters; starting 
with a simple statement of the object¬ 
ives of camping, they progressed through 
the following subjects: What is a Coun¬ 
sellor’s Job? Theory of the Camp. 
What to Know About the Camper. 
Discipline. Records and Reports. The 
Cabin Group. Safety. Privileges and 
Obligations of the Counsellor. The 
Specialty Counsellor. The First Day 
in Camp. 

Each letter invited answer and com¬ 
ment, and some took the opportunity 
to write and express themselves. By 


It is not possible to reprint the letters 
in their entirety here, but a few ex¬ 
amples might be helpful to illustrate 
their type, tone and content. On the 
subject: “What are the duties of the 
counsellor,” a small section of the letter 
read: 

“The counsellor helps his youngsters 
to discover new things and to explore 
the adventure and glamour of real life 
in the out-of-doors. He does not give 
him the answers but leads him to where 
they can be found. Learning is experi¬ 
ence. The counsellor sets the stage and 
introduces the camper to things and 
experiences which stimulate him to 
pursue them, and thereby learn. This 
does not just happen. It is present as 
you rise above routine, with initiative 


62 


Canadian Camping 



and zest, to discover the best in each 
situation. BUT, your own greatest 
achievement, your own greatest thrill, 
will be to discover the best in each of 
your campers”. 

In a* letter on, “how to better under¬ 
stand the camper”: 

“We all need security. Everyone has 
to feel that he is accepted and liked. 
Have you ever noticed how uncomfort¬ 
able you are when you are in a group 
where you think you are not liked? 
Makes you want to leave or tell them 
off, doesn’t it? There is a need also 
for recognition. That is why it is so 
much better to praise your campers 
than to criticize them. Use praise 
generously. Encourage them. No one 
likes to be lectured or bawled out. 
Lying, stealing, bullying, selfishness, 
beefing, eating problems, shyness, fear, 
home-sickness, are symptoms. We can 
prevent these symptoms from showing 
if we give recognition, affection, accept¬ 
ance, and an opportunity for self- 
expression and achievement. When we 
create an atmosphere of friendliness 
and praise, understanding and helpful¬ 
ness, and try to know our youngsters as 
individuals, we save ourselves a lot of 
needless grief and, what is more impor¬ 
tant, we and our campers are happy; 
and I don’t think anything is more 
important than happiness, do you?” 

An excerpt on discipline might be 
interesting: 

“May I add a few usual misuses of 
discipline which I am sure you will 
agree should be out-of-bounds in camp. 
We are all familiar with the counsellor, 
who, due to his own weakness “loses 
control”. Because he is failing, he 
resorts to threats, physical force and 
emotional pressure. This is absence of 
discipline on the part of the leader. 
Primitive climate is one in which happy, 
healthy youngsters will not grow. 

Then there is the counsellor who 


drips love and sweetness, she tells her 
cabin how nice she is and how she 
never punishes them and how badly she 
would feel if they weren’t lambs. This 
is sheer blackmail. The youngster who 
makes a slip feels like a heel. It breeds 
a group dependent upon the leader, 
fearful and unable to plan or be self- 
reliant because they might “hurt” or 
displease her. 

How about hostile competition ? More 
competiveness than children need often 
develops into hatreds in the group, 
tensions and fear. Reward is given to 
him who tramples upon anyone daring 
to compete with him, and shame to him 
who doesn’t make the grade. This is a 
dog race and racing dogs don’t develop 
co-operation and mutual love while 
the race is going on. 

Watch for the group-pride climate 
where discipline means only “our cabin 
must be best”, and woe unto him who 
stains that record! This is a' form of 
nationalism where loyalty to the state 
is supreme. 

Here is a chance to relax this sum¬ 
mer and give youngsters a chance to 
really grow. It doesn’t mean we do 
nothing for discipline, but that we 
create mutual respect, teach goals and 
use punishment sparingly, based upon 
our understanding of the individual and 
our desire to help them. If we get a 
“kick” out of our youngsters, we don’t 
want to kick them. 

An attempt to get across the idea 
that the specialty counsellor was a 
regular counsellor working towards the 
same goal as the cabin counsellor, met 
with success. A part of the letter on 
this subject gives the idea: 

“It is the job of everyone to work as 
a team to make camp a happy and 
worthwhile experience for every child. 

Your specialty is important only in 
so far as it enriches camp and is in har- 

continued on page 82 


Toronto , Canada , February , 1958 


63 


FROM THE 
PRESIDENT'S DESK 


By F. M. Van Wagner, 
Director, Camp Nominingue 


What do we have in mind when we 
speak of organized camping? A fre¬ 
quently quoted definition is, “Camping 
is a recreational experience in the out- 
of-doors, which provides special oppor¬ 
tunities for education and social adjust¬ 
ment through group living.” 

Let us consider the two parts of our 
definition, first, “recreational experience 
in the out-of-doors”, and second, “social 
adjustment through group living.” It 
seems to me that our programme is 
chiefly concerned with the first, while 
the second is in the nature of a valuable 
by-product. We are primarily engaged 
with teaching recreational skills such as 
swimming, canoeing, campcraft and 
many related activities associated with 
the out-of-doors. Here, given wise guid¬ 
ance in the favorable environment of 
camp, social adjustment should be a 
natural outcome. 

Among other things, we are engaged 
in teaching, and a camp, no less than a 
school, may be judged by the quality 
of instruction it provides. 

If campers are to gain the most from 
their camping experience, it is .essential 
that every camp have clearly defined 
objectives, understood and accepted by 
all members of the staff. High standards 
must be maintained in respect to pro¬ 
gramme, health and safety, and person¬ 
nel. To promote the realization of 
worthy objectives and high standards 
in camping is the principal purpose of 
the Canadian Camping Association. 

It is well recognized that camp must 
provide fun for the camper. Activities 
provided for their education and enjoy¬ 
ment are many and varied. The activi¬ 
ties featured often reflect the interests 
and philosophy of the Director. 


Viewing present camping develop¬ 
ment, many camping people are aware 
of the danger of drifting away from our 
primary objectives, of simple out-of- 
doors. Every effort should be made to 
keep life at camp simple,, and to retain 
those features which we consider will 
provide a good camping experience. A 
frequent check should be made of our 
thinking and practice to see where it is 
leading us. 

We believe camping is preparation 
for life, in that it provides an oppor¬ 
tunity to develop life-long interests and 
recreational skills associated with nature 
and the out-of-doors. Probably we hold 
this conviction because this has been our 
personal experience. 

After a most enjoyable canoe trip, we 
fortunately were able to remain at camp 
where we watched the birds gather for 
their southern flight, and saw the maples 
turn to brilliant red, the rich yellow of 
the birches followed and finally the 
tamaracks took on their mantle of gold. 
In November, as we sat before our 
fireplace and looked out across the lake 
to the hills beyond, all the beautiful 
color had gone. The first snow fell. So 
with the passing of a wonderful summe! 
and fall, our thoughts turned to travel¬ 
ling the forest trails on skis. The coat 
of the snowshoe rabbit turned to white, 
so he too was ready for winter. 

It is not easy to adequately express 
our feelings about the many things we 
have come to appreciate during our 
camping days. This, however, has been 
wonderfully well done by Sigurd Olsen 
in his book “The Singing Wilderness”. 


64 


Canadian Camping 





By Allen R. Wootton 3 F.R.S.A. 

Past President, 

Vancouver Natural History Society 


WILD LIFE 
CORNER 


Down through the ages, from the 
days of the early cave dwellers to the 
present day, man has looked to nature 
lor materials, ideas and designs with 
which to fashion and decorate the 
articles he uses. 

For many centuries the native Indian 
tribes have used natural materials for 
their crafts and artifacts. Likewise, the 
pioneers and woodsmen supplied their 
wants in the wilderness from nature’s 
bounties. 

In camping we, too, can make use of 
nature’s gifts in our crafts and learn 
from the Indian and woodsman the 
many uses to which these gifts can be 
put. 

It should be rememhered that camp¬ 
ing is life in the open, and while there 
are many types of camps and camp 
programmes it is advisable that boys 
and girls, while in camp, should derive 
as much value as possible from their 
contact with nature. One cannot tell 
just when the outdoor crafts learned 
in camp may be of value to them on 
hikes or travels throughout their lives. 
Nature crafts help the boy or girl to 
become resourceful and self-reliant, to 
develop powers of observation, and en¬ 
courage a desire to be constructive and 
to create things of beauty. 

The interests of the age groups should 
be considered before proceeding with 
the various crafts, so that the type of 
craft work or nature activity may be 
planned to suit the ability of each 
group. 

Young children are fond of simple 
crafts, working with clay or plasticine, 
drawing and coloring simple scenes and 
natural things which they can cut out. 


They also take a delight in finding 
shells, stones, fungi, plants, leaves, and 
insects. Being interested in the shape 
and habits of plants and animals these 
children often imagine they themselves 
are trees, rabbits, deer, or other crea¬ 
tures ol nature or fantasy around which 
they develop a play; they are also very 
fond of nature stories. These character¬ 
istics can all be brought into use in 
developing crafts with this group of 
children. 

As children get older their interests 
gradually change so that in the eight- 
to-twelve year group they show a deep 
interest in all nature and enjoy making 
collections of natural things and other 
objects. Creating and making articles 
of various materials, drawing and paint¬ 
ing are enjoyed by these children. They 
also like field trips, hikes, nature games, 
cook-outs and club activities. 

Upon reaching teenage they find en¬ 
joyment in service projects, such as 
developing nature trails, camp and play¬ 
ground museums, constructing and ar¬ 
ranging bulletin and knot boards, bird 
houses, feeding trays, gadgets from 
natural materials, and more advanced 
crafts. They become interested in the 
principles of life; the inter-relationship 
of living things, and specialized study. 
They enjoy assisting in programmes for 
younger children, and the ability shown 
by them can be of great value instruct¬ 
ing others in the various crafts. 

The success of any craft programme 
will depend to a large extent on the 
ability and the enthusiasm of the leader 
or counsellor in promoting the subject. 

Nature crafts may be listed under 
two headings: Campcrafts, for improv- 


Toronto , Canada , February, 1958 


65 




ing one’s comfort in camp, and Arts 
and Handicrafts. 

At camp it is advisable to use natural 
materials as much as possible. It is 
more in keeping with the spirit of the 
outdoors, and the campers will have 
much fun finding suitable material for 
the articles they plan to make. If local 
clay is available it may be used for 
modelling — preferably natural objects 
such as birds, small animals, mushrooms, 
plants, sea-life. Nature will suggest many 
things that can be modelled. Rendering 
may be either in flat relief or in the 
round or solid form. If local clay is 
not obtainable it may be advisable to 
take a supply to camp for use on rainy 
days or whenever necessary. When pos¬ 
sible model from a natural specimen, 
but if such should not be available a 
good picture of an object will be of 
assistance. 

Local woods can be used for carving, 
making of gadgets, models of pioneering 
structures. Care should be taken when 
obtaining this material not to cut any 
tree that will deface the camp. Often 
fallen trees will supply suitable material. 

Barks of some trees, willow stems, 
rushes and grasses make excellent ma¬ 
terial for weaving, plaiting, basketry 
and mats. Driftwood, pine cones, shells, 
feathers, horns, antlers, when found, 
have many uses. 

Natural pigments obtained from wild 
plants may be used for coloring if a 
little time is taken to prepare them. A 
good book on Indian-lore will often 
provide information as to how this is 
done, but consideration should be given 
to the suitability of the plants of local 
areas for producing dyes. Oregon grape 
root, Alder bark, Wild cherry and many 
wild berries, and earth ochres — red, 
brown and yellow, mixed with fish oil, 
were used by the Indians of the Pacific 
North-West. A blue was obtained from 
copper oxide; black from black mud 
and charcoal and the ash of burnt clam¬ 


shell provided white. These pigments 
gave carvings a rich, soft coloring. Of 
course one can always resort to the 
paint pot for the necessary colors. 

Motifs and color for designs are also 
to be found in nature, for nature is 
very prolific with her ornament and 
symmetry of design in the living pattern 
of her orderly growth. Trees, ferns, 
flowers, leaves, insects, birds, water, 
offer many suggestions. These can be 
rendered either in a natural or repre¬ 
sentational way or conventionalized; 
that is, simplifying nature forms in the 
design often based on a geometric pat¬ 
tern, symmetrical or non-symmetrical in 
form. 

Many of the Indian designs are sym¬ 
bolic in quality, conveying a meaning 
of what they represent in nature. 

Encourage originality and creative¬ 
ness in handicrafts. Have the campers 
make their own designs. These may 
appear rather crude to an adult but are 
valuable and satisfying to the designer. 

Sketching trips may be held occasion¬ 
ally while in camp for the purpose of 
recording what the campers see in 
nature. Subjects might include flowers, 
leaves, tree shapes, stones, insects; and 
on the sea-shore, shells, starfish and 
their associates. There is always a fas¬ 
cinating array of life to hold the interest 
of the young artist when out-of-doors. 
If attention has been paid to detail, 
drawings can later be used in designing 
and decorating craft articles. 

In the handicraft group can be in¬ 
cluded articles made with the assistance 
of medical quality plaster of Paris. Ob¬ 
jects children like to make with this 
medium include camp or natural scenes. 
The plaster is mixed with water until it 
will just run when poured into small 
mound dishes. Quickly, before the plaster 
sets, place upon it small tree cones, 
stones, twigs, moss or other objects, 
building up a scene with bridges, 
streams, hills, bark teepee, as the fancy 


66 


Canadian Camping 


dictates. Let the plaster set and dry 
then touch up with paint using natural 
colors and finally apply a coat of varnish. 

If one is fortunate to find a good 
imprint of an animal track in soft earth 
a plaster cast can be made of it. Such 
casts can be used for making bookends, 
paper weights, plaques and when bronzed 
or colored make attractive ornaments. 

Other articles in this group of crafts 
may include: woven, braided or laced 
belts and headbands; driftwood lamp 
stands, whistles, totem poles, walking 
stick on which a camper’s record of 
camps and adventures can be carved 
in symbols. Among shell ornaments are 
necklaces, plates, bowls and trays, the 
last three items being especially attrac¬ 
tive if decorated with a painted scene 
or design. 

A very absorbing interest can be the 
making of Leaf prints. There are various 
ways in which this may be accomplished 
— inked carbon paper, smoke print, 
spatter, blue print and inked roller. 

Bracket fungi, while damp, can be 
written or drawn upon with an indelible 
pencil and then allowed to dry. They 
make interesting camp souvenirs. 

Both boys and girls love to cook 
meals over open fires, build shelters 
and sleep out. One of the things they 
should learn is how to take care of 
themselves in the woods. This is where 
a knowledge of woodcraft comes in 
useful. To assist in this, have the 
campers make a fire-bow set; build 
models of the many kinds of fire places 
and learn the value of various woods 
suitable for making fires, such as resin¬ 
ous and hardwoods; construct model 
huts and shelters of boughs or thatch, 
or a camp loom for weaving a grass or 
bough mattress. Models may also be 
made of pioneer bridges such as a 
monkey bridge and single lock bridge. 
This will require a knowledge of knots 
and lashings, so a knot board is a useful 
thing to make for the camp. 


There are many types of camp gadgets 
that perform a useful service in camp 
such as; hardwood pot-hooks, cherry 
or willow stick grills; Candle holders; 
there are several ways of making these 
depending on the ingenuity of the cam¬ 
per. The simplest is probably the split 
stick and birch bark loop. Shoe, hat 
and clothes racks and coat hangers also 
are useful, but avoid using resinous 
woods. 

Many utensils can be made from 
cherry or birch bark or carved from 
wood; for example, spoons, forks, bowls, 
cups, dishes, trays. Bark articles can be 
stitched together with root fibres or 
strong thread. 

Woven or plaited strips of cedar bark 
can be used to cover table tops, chair 
seats or for matting. Tying material can 
be made of cedar bark beaten and 
twisted into strands. The Indians often 
used the outer parts of spruce root which 
they boiled in a lye of wood ashes and 
water to soften and make them pliable. 
These fibres were used for lacing, sew¬ 
ing and tying. 

The finding of natural twig alphabets 
and the making of rustic camp signs 
provide interesting pastimes. Such a 
sign could welcome and introduce visi¬ 
tors to a nature trail if placed at the 
entrance. It might read, “Come follow 
me into the mysterious realm of nature.” 

Life-size plywood cut-outs of local 
birds, painted in natural plumage can 
be made in camp and used in bird 
study. It is advisable to have good refer¬ 
ence material and pictures to work from 
when making these cut-outs. 

As all art can be merely a supplement 
to nature the wise camp counsellor, 
when preparing a programme, will pro¬ 
vide every opportunity for the campers 
of all the age groups to become con¬ 
versant with nature. 


TorontoCanada, February , 1958 


67 


WILL 

THIS 

INTEREST 

YOUR 

CAMPERS? 


Always there is room in the camp 
programme, perhaps around the camp¬ 
fire, or at the dinner table, for reliable 
information about the flora and fauna 
of the rural area about us. Mr. Toner 
has been writing for some years on just 
such topics, many of which have 
appeared in the Bancroft Times. Can¬ 
adian Camping has been given per¬ 
mission to reprint a collection of his 
tid-bits, for their extreme value to 
camp directors and staff members . . . 
all of us who sometimes find it difficult 
to put our fingers on this kind of infor¬ 
mation. Why not clip these stories and 
paste them in that looseleaf memo book 
we should all be preparing now for 
summer use? 


By G. C. Toner , 

Royal Ontario Museum 


Coyotes, Buffalo and Rattlesnakes 

Forty to fifty years ago the West, 
Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Alberta, 
had wild animals, not as many as there 
had been thirty years before, but the 
remnants of the great number were 
there. They could be found on the 
open sections that had not been broken, 
or in the coulees and canyons. On clear 
nights the coyotes howled, deer could 
be found along the creeks, and in the 
wild country of extreme southwestern 
Saskatchewan, and in other places, 
antelopes could be flushed. Once in 
awhile the trail of the big buffalo wolves 
crossed the country, for the animals 
were cautious and kept out of sight. 

The smaller coyote was everywhere. 
I worked for a farmer named J. B. 
Smith who had three Russian wolf 
hounds, one had the classical build, but 
the others were crossed with fox hounds. 
All three could run faster than any dog 
that I had seen up to that time and all 
of them could see a coyote at a distance 
where I could not even find the animal 
with field glasses. In the fall of 1915, 
in two or three months at the most, 
they caught and killed eleven of these 
small wolves. Left alone to make the 
kill they wrassled and tore the pelt of 
the coyote making it useless as a trophy 
or skinned out to be sold. 

Smith, himself, followed the hounds 
on his horse, and it was a sight to see. 
The coyote running for life, the hounds 
straining every muscle to overtake the 
wolf, and Smith, bringing up the rear on 
his horse. When the hounds were almost 
on the wolf it would turn and go down 

continued on page 92 


68 


Canadian Camping 


By Lewis C. Reimann, Camp Consultant, 
Author of “The Successful Camp 99 

Reprinted from The Woodpile } 

Michigan Camping Association 


Literature for private or agency camps 
need not be elaborate or expensive. Some 
of the r^osg effective lit erature is simpl e, 
direct an d persu asive. Its purpose is to 
i nterpret the camp to parents and pro s¬ 

pective campers whe n and whe re t he 
dire ctor or hi s^^presentaliv,e_caimot 
interv Le\\L,them_Jmmed iately or at al l., 
due to distan ce. Mailed, it attracts 
attention and opens* the way for a visit 
by the director at a later time. 

The brochure, letters and other pieces 
of camp publicity should be such as will 
attrac t attention , arouse intere st, create 
desire , establish c onfidence an d^promote 
e nrolmen t. The literature should set 
f orth the feature s- o f the camp, its per-I 
sonnel, speci al attraction s, the benefit s 
de rived trorn^a^go od camp in g exper i- 
ence and”hetween the printed lines show I 
the personality of the director. 

Thoughtful parents will be more im¬ 
pressed with the personality of the 
director and his staff than by elaborate 
camp equipment. Photographs and 
qualifications and experience of the 
director and some of the counsellors are 
most effective. 

Photographs which show children in 
activities, the natural beauty of the 
setting, buildings, water, land, interiors 
and equipment will receive first atten¬ 
tion when the literature is received. 


IT’S TIME 
FOR 
GOOD 
PUBLIC 
RELATIONS 


tions and practices, safety instr uction 
given, special emphasis ancT~ob]ecfives 
of the progr amme in terms of campers 
growth and~deveIo pment, b enefits der¬ 
ived from the~parti cular camp, the s ur¬ 
roundin g environment, h ow to reachT 
t he camp, v isiting days and tuition rates. 

I Exaggerations~of~facilities offered ancT 
comparisons with other camps should 
be carefully avoided. 

Sharp, clear-cut photographs and good 
printing, rather than off-set printing, 
will give the brochure a fresh look. 
Black ink on clear whit e paper is prefer- 
able to colored paper ana colored ink, 
advertising people tell us. An attractive 
photograph of a camp scene in color on 
the front cover will draw immediate 
attention and give a feeling of warmth 
to the piece. Color-photography print¬ 
ing is necessarily expensive and its use 
will be determined by funds available 
for that purpose. 


The text should be direct, honest and 
brief, giving information about staff 
policy (its matu rity, age and trainingf f. 
food, artivitie^ofrered, health precau- 


A map sho wing the locatio n of the, 
camp , trams and automobile highways 
ancfthe nearest town or city will assist 

continued on page 91 


I oronto, Canada, February, 1958 


69 













































DUEL 


MOVIES? - - NEVER! 


The camp that shows movies interdigitally as a regular part of its programme 
is missing one of its most precious opportunities towards the development of a 
highly important facet in a child’s growth. 

The modern child arrives at camp saturated with canned entertainment. 
Weekly movies and daily television programmes have “conditioned” him to a 
passive receptiveness. 

Some movies that the child sees in the city are excellent. They are either 
historically informative or they are truly artistic both as to plot and professional 
production techniques. Educational television broadcasting and audio-visual pro¬ 
grammes in schools present an effective type of professional movie. 

More and more is offered to the child throughout the winter months. So, 
Johnny or Jane arrives at camp with patterned eyes, dulled ears, and an emotional 
sensory system that can weather the ups and downs of a movie thriller with a 
jaded yawn. 

For entertainment at camp—give the child a chance. 

First, let him rest. Let him rest his body from routine stimulation. Let him 
rest his ears and let him rest his eyes. Then, watch him awake. 

The need for fun and companionship is a natural one. In a group of healthy 
awakened children watch the entertainment bloom! Creative, original little 
playlets will spring forth—slowly, at first, but gathering momentum throughout 
the summer. Original songs fill the air. Youthful impresarios will search the camp 
library for plays and operettas. 

This is the opportunity that a child has only at camp away from all artificial 
stimulation—to learn to think creatively and artistically on his own. This cannot 
be achieved with the competition of professional movies. The comparison is 
debilitating, the need and urge to fill the entertainment gap is gone. 


70 


Canadian Camping 





ISSUES 


WE LIKE MOVIES AT CAMP 

There are a number of opportunities in a camp setting when movies can 
be useful. A good feature film, approved at the family and child level, should 
be on hand or available for the third afternoon of a continuously raining period. 
After three days of indoor activity, the counsellors need some respite, and a feature 
picture is a lift for the campers as well as the staff. 

In addition to the occasional feature picture, there are numerous instructional 
and documentary films available that are too valuable to miss. These are available 
on free loan from industrial sources. The National Film Board of Canada provides 
a summer circuit of films; catalogues of films and sponsors ar,e also available from 
this source. 

A number of motion picture distributors have libraries of current films, 
approved by local councils of the Children’s Film Library, available for rental at 
modest charges. A well rounded educational program, whether it is at home, at 
school or at camp, should include every means that is available for the development 
of the child. It is for this reason that visual education may be included in a 
camping programme. 

As a programme aid, films are very useful in preparing for a large all-camp 
project. Many of the special day programmes used by camps are Circus Day, United 
Nations Day, the Zoo, etc. These events are planned by campers with exhibits and 
displays set up in miniature to depict that which we have all seen. In preparing 
for these, the campers and counsellors can be stimulated by showing appropriate 
movies in advance. These movies can be a source of ideas and will provide the 
stimulation needed for everyone to build displays and make costumes most suited 
to the occasion. Yes, there certainly is a place for movies in our camp programme, 
and we’re all for it! 


Toronto, Canada, February , 1958 


71 








Mahe iHans 

TO 

ATTEND THE 

JOINT 

CONFERENCE 

of the 

CANADIAN CAMPING 
ASSOCIATION 

and 

QUEBEC CAMPING 
ASSOCIATION 

April 11th & 12th 

1958 

WINDSOR HOTEL 
MONTREAL, QUE. 


ISLAND HIDEAWAY 

By Margaret Govan 

John Patterson has won national fame 
as a T.V. and radio star. The contrast 
between his usual artificial life and the 
outdoor adventures that happen to 
him during his vacation with the 
Brown family in Northern Ontario 
forms the subject of another exciting 
story by the author of The Trail of 
the Red Canoe and The Trail of the 
Broken Snowshoe - - - - $2.25 

• 

J. M. DENT & SONS 
(CANADA) LTD. 

100 Scarsdale Rd. Don Mills, Ont. 


continued from page 59 

problems of the rocket age with the 
courage, wisdom and faith that at 
present we seem to lack. 

To produce the kind of people the 
world needs is the most urgent task of 
education today. The camps have the 
setting wherein this training can take 
place. 

Sometimes I have heard campers ex¬ 
press the feeling that camp represents 
an idealistic situation, where they are 
lifted above themselves to insights and 
resolves which they fail to carry out 
when they go back to every day life. 
How can we make the transfer from an 
outer to an inner discipline last? 

I know- no quick and easy answer. 
The one thing I am sure of is that the 
integrity and loyalty of any one person 
can be the greatest motive for others. 
This puts the matter squarely up to 
the director and her assistants. If we 
live the things we believe, they cease to 
be mere professions. This is the enduring 
challenge to us all. 

When camps can play such a part as 
this, they will fulfill their highest destiny. 

It should be an article of faith in all 
camps and among all campers that 
this vision pictured above can become 
a reality. 


THE UPWARD ROAD 

I will follow the upward road today 
1 will keep my face towards the light, 
I will think kind thoughts as I go my 
way, 

I will do what I know is right. 

I will look for the flowers by the side 
of the road, 

1 will laugh and love and be strong, 

I will try to lighten another’s load 
This day as I fare along. 

— Mary S. Edgar 


72 


Canadian Camping 













STOP ME 

If You’ ve Heard This One 


By Margaret Govan } 
Director, Camp Onawaw 


The average camper who adopts a 
camp as his second home, is very curious 
about what happened before T came 
along*. He wants to know why you 
picked this particular camp site, what 
it looked like when you first saw it, and 
what has happened since. Stories about 
the ‘old days’ do far more than fill in 
an empty space of time; they strengthen 
the ties which bind the camper to camp; 
they give a sense of continuity; and 
build a camp tradition. So a camp 
director begins to collect such stories, 
either to tell himself or to pass on to 
the camp story teller. He uses his own 
memories, and those of other staff 
members. Canoe trippers bring in tales 
of adventure, and ‘old campers’ make 
their contribution. (In some cases these 
last stories may prove enlightening, if 
not startling to the director, and may 
require some censoring!) The appear¬ 
ance of camp in winter-time fascinates 
the summer camper. And surely Hurri¬ 
cane ‘Audrey’ will add a lot to the 
record. 

But if we enlarge our ‘traditions’ to 
include the immediate vicinity, we open 
the doors to all kinds of programme 


ideas. Geography, geology, history, a 
crafts project and nature study can all 
become real and vital. Suppose we 
start with local landmarks . . . the 
remains of a corduroy road, an authentic 
log cabin, the nearest fire ranger’s 
tower, a mine, caves, a lumber camp, 
a Hudson Bay Post . . . and on T.V. 
the other night I heard from Dr. V. 
B. Meen that there is a- crater in 
Algonquin Park; I still have to locate 
the site. But each of these has a story 
to tell which can set minds working in 
as many directions and open up all 
kinds of excitement. 

Of course the camper will ask about 
Indians, and the Royal Ontario Museum 
is a great source of authentic informa¬ 
tion which it is delighted to share. And 
since the rocky points on our lakes are 
the best place to build our cooking fires, 
we can be quite sure that the Indians 
used them too. Some camps are for¬ 
tunate enough to lie in the districts 
where there are still artifacts to be 
found to reward the searcher; those of 
us in the north have to be satisfied with 
using birchbark and reeds, clay and 
porcupine needles! 

Cont. next page 


Toronto, Canada, February, 1958 


73 




The Indians were followed by trappers 
and lumberjacks. These are of such 
recent years that most old timers can 
tell tall stories of the mighty men who 
lived and worked in the camping areas. 
On our lake we have our local Paul 
Bunyan who was trying to repair some 
damage to a lumber boom at the mouth 
of the Big East. Pie had just removed 
the chains and hung them round his 
neck . . . they vary in weight from 150 
to 200 pounds . . . when he inadvert¬ 
ently stepped off the boom, and sank 
in thirty or forty feet of water. Not 
wishing to lose his chains he walked 
the half-mile to the nearest sandbar 
(which is familiar to all our campers). 


to retrieve it. Suddenly he caught sight 
of it rounding a bend; he strode into 
the middle of the stream, ready to give 
the paddler a tongue lashing. Imagine 
his feelings to discover a fawn in the 
bow being paddled efficiently by Mrs. 
Deer in the stern! 

Perhaps you have your own animal 
stories. We have a couple . . . once our 
pony got into the kitchen, and the 
bull in the china shop didn’t do half 
the damage that he did. Again two 
baby racoons fell into the detergent 
barrel! They were sorrier and wiser but 
they turned up to raid the garbage pail 
next night. 


The stories of animals are as strange 
and enthralling. Every local hunter has 
his bear story which he will preface 
with: ‘Don’t ever believe a story about 
a bear, but now I’ll tell you a true one’. 
Stop me if you’ve heard this: a hunter 
lost his canoe one year, and returned 
to the scene the following fall hoping 


And after these stories have been told 
round the camp fire, you and the cam¬ 
pers will go in search of a beaver dam, 
or a heronry, or to watch the coons 
feeding at night (all of which you have 
previously located). 

continued on page 90 


Ifadcraft 

Extra QUALITY PAYS . . . 

and that is verified by the confidence of our customers, which continues 
year after year. 

Foodcraft specialized foods offer many unique advantages and they sum 
up to what you want — distinctive quality meals at minimum cost. 
Personnel thoroughly experienced in camp procedure, is at your service 
day or night. Just write or telephone for an appointment. 

• Specialized Foods • Specialized Service 

FOODCRAFT LABORATORIES LIMITED 

60 Duchess Street, 3111 St. Catherine St. E., 

Toronto 2, Ontario Montreal 4, P.Q. 

EMpire 8-8088 LAfontaine 4-5555 

DISTRIBUTION ACROSS CANADA 


74 


Canadian Camping 



continued from page 61 

sortie was successful, but the second 
ended in a severe thrashing for the 
southern Indians. They were ambushed 
at Fairy Point and driven over the cliffs 
into the deep waters of the lake. Indian 
drawings in red can still be observed 
upon the steep rock walls of Fairy 
Point on Missinaibi Lake. 

The post called Brunswick House, 
and later referred to as Old Brunswick 
House, was built at Wapiscogamy Creek 
on Missinaibi River in 1776. Wapiscog¬ 
amy Creek is near a place on the Miss¬ 
inaibi River known as the Great Falls, 
which is probably Thunder House Falls. 
The journev Irom Moose Factory to 
that spot was about 200 miles and it is 
explained that Wapiscogamy is about 
a day’s journey from the Great Falls. 

A new post was established on the 
present Brunswick Lake “about five 
miles from the mouth of the creek” on 
July 11th, 1788. In 1798, the name 
of the post was changed from Mica- 
banish to New Brunswick from one of 
the titles of the reigning sovereign, 
George III. It continued in operation 
until about 1879 when it was moved 
to the northeast end of Miss’naibi Lake. 
It continued to be known as New Bruns¬ 
wick House until its abandonment some¬ 
time after 1901. 

In common with other portions of 
North America, this part of Ontario 
owes a great deal of its early develop¬ 
ment to the fur trader. Now that other 
forms of commerce are becoming of 
more importance in northern Ontario, 
different routes and means of travel 
are becoming necessary. 

With the completion of the highway 
new industries based on minerals and 
forest products will, no doubt, come 
into being. In so doing there will be 
talk of the romance of establishing in 
the wilderness. 

It is hardly fair to draw comparisons 
over two centuries of history, but, when 
all things are considered, there is a 
considerable difference. 

— • 



memo 


enrollments 
le bought 4 


%S ’ Camp, Lake Michigan 



o nociiiciii m rarenrs Drouphf 
us 10 inquiries and 3 enrollments in additfon 
to the boy through your office. 


Boys' Camp, Michigan 


Our advertising in Parents’ Magazine brought 
17 direct inquiries and 3 direct enrollments 
One of these enrollments was from a mother 
who was (our) camper thirty-five years ago! 

—Girls’ Camp, Maine 


Thanks once again for your interest and co¬ 
operation. Bureau leads resulted in 4 en¬ 
rollments, our advertising in 9 inquiries and 
3 enrollments. 

-Boys' and Girls’ Camp, New York 


For 24 consecutive years. Parents'Mag¬ 
azine has carried more camp advertis¬ 
ers than any other national magazine. 

For rates and full details'* write or phone; 
JOSEPHINE CHRENKO, Director, 

School and Camp Department 

PARENTS' MAGAZINE 

52 VANDERBILT AVE., NEW YORK 17 
MUrray Hill 5-4400 


Toronto, Canada, February, 1958 


75 



THE ONTARIO CAMPING ASSOCIATION CONFERENCE 
is to be held in Toronto at the King Edward Hotel 
on March 7th and 8th, 1958 


An invitation is extended to all members from far and near, from this side 
oui International Border and from the other, to join us in the discussions, 
workshops and general sessions presented by the Programme Committee: 



FRIDAY, MARCH 7th 

9.00 a.m. 

REGISTRATION 

10.00 a.m. 
to 

11.45 a.m. 

1. The camper — Dr. Mary Northway, University of Toronto 

Some interesting findings from recent research. 

2. Elmer Ott, Y.M.C.A., Milwaukee, Wisconsin 

3. Business Administration — Clifford Labbett and 

An Accountant — R. E. Simpson; A Business Manager — Ghent 
Carroll; A Lawyer — Harold Nashman. 

11.45 a.m. 
to 

1.45 p.m. 

LUNCH (on your own) 

1.45 p.m. 
to 

3.15 p.m. 

Miss Margaret Govan — Welcome address from the President 
of O.C.A. 

INFORMATION PLEASE — Chairman, Bert Danson 

3.15 p.m. 
to 

4.00 p.m. 

EXHIBITS 

4.00 p.in. 
to 

5.30 p.m. 

1. Handling Staff Meetings — Dick McDonald 

2. Building and Maintenance — David Palter and panel 

3. What Do You Do When? — Margaret Govan and panel 

4. Programme Methods — Nathan Marcus 

5.30 p.m. 

SUPPER (on your own) 

EXHIBITS 

8.00 p.m. 

SPEAKER — Elmer Ott, Director, Camp Manito-Wish Y.M.C.A., 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin. 


76 


Canadian Camping 


SATURDAY, MARCH 8th 


9.00 a.m. 

10.00 a.m. 
to 

11.45 a.m. 


11.45 a.m. 
to 

1.45 p.m. 

1.45 p.m. 
to 

3.15 p.m. 


3.15 p.m. 

4.00 p.m. 
to 

5.30 p.m. 


5.30 p.m. 
7.00 p.m. 


REGISTRATION 

1. The Camper (More reports on recent research), Dr. Mary 
Northway 

2. Staff morale and Policies — Reg. Bundy 

3. Eating Off The Land — Kirk Wipper, University of Toronto 

4. Song Leading — R. MacGregor, Supervisor of Music, Etobicoke 
Board of Education 

LUNCH AND EXHIBITS 

1. Teenagers (How to interest and keep them) — Ed. Devitt and 
Helen Stewart 

2. Canoe Trip Camping — Doug Lloyd 

3. Indian Lore — Jack Eastaugh 

4. Music in Camp — Helene Rothwell 

5. Arts and Crafts with Natural Materials — Neil Broadfoot 

6. Red Cross and R.L.S.S. — Tests and Programme (Panel) 

EXHIBITS AND DRAW 

1. Content of C.I.T. Programme — Charles Fick 

2. Helping Campers to Grow Spiritually — Bruno Mora we tz 

3. Orienteering With Maps and Compass — W. Salo 

4. Pre-Camp Training for Staff — Charles Brown 

5. Canoeing Awards Report — Kirk Wipper 
Kindred Group Meetings can be arranged at this time 

EXHIBITS 

DINNER—Speaker, Dr. J. D. Atcheson, Juvenile and Family Court 
Crystal Ballroom, King Edward Hotel 

Let’s all plan to attend this final get-together. Bring your staff 
members. Introduce them to the O.C.A. 


Toronto, Canada, February , 1958 


77 



Introducing . . . 


THE CAMP SHOP by 


SKIRT ’N’ SWEATER SHOP 

LTD. 

372 Eglinton Ave. W., Toronto 


Our plans include the following: 


• One stop shopping for all staple items necessary for 
girls’ camping. 

• All merchandise labelled and packed for shipping at 
no extra cost. 

For additional information please write: 


The Camp Shop c/o The Skirt # N' Sweater Shop 

372 EGLINTON AVENUE WEST 

TORONTO 






mUgsSSi 


for the finest in: 

• CAMP CRESTS 

• T-SHIRTS 

• SWEAT-SHIRTS 

• ACTIVITY BARS 

• ARM BANDS 

• HATS AND CAPS 
. INDOOR GAMES 


PENINSULA SCREEN ARTS 

23 TAYLOR AVE. MUtual 5-6160 

ST. CATHARINES, ONT. 

- Prices and Additional Information on Request- 




78 


Canadian Camping 







CANOEING AWARDS 

As approved by the Ontario Camping Association, revised November, 1957 
BEGINNER’S AWARD 

Prerequisite —Beginner’s Red Cross Swimming Award or equivalent. 

Be able to: 

1. Kneel and sit back on heels on floor of canoe. 

2. Get into and out of a canoe correctly. 

3. Care for a paddle and a canoe. 

4. Paddle the straight or bow stroke. 

5. Paddle the backwater stroke. 

6. Sit as a passenger. 

7. Select a suitable individual paddle. 

Know: 

1. Bow, Stem, Thwarts, Ribs, Keel, Gunwale, Painter and decks of a canoe. 

2. Grip, Blade, Shaft and Tip of a paddle. 

3. Correct procedure for approaching a dock or beach. 

4. Importance of balance. 

5. Five canoe safety rules (P.16—The Canoe and You). 

Privileges: 

Be allowed to paddle with an experienced canoeist within a restricted area 
(a marked enclosure not over shoulder depth). 

JUNIOR AWARD 

Prerequisites —A knowledge of the Beginners’ Requirements, plus Junior Red 
Cross Swimming Award or equivalent. 

Be able to: 

1. Launch a canoe and remove it from the water with assistance. 

2. Demonstrate balance. 

3. Paddle bow not less than 200 yards satisfactorily in roughened water. 

4. With a bowman paddle stem for a distance of 200 yards. 

5. Paddle alone satisfactorily in smooth water for a distance of 200 yards. 

6. Land a canoe properly. 

7. Upset a canoe and propel it towards shore. 

8. Paddle an accumulative distance of three miles (doubles). 

9. Do the following strokes: Straight (Bow) ; “J”, Draw, Sweep. 

Know: 

1. The correct position for the bowman, centre and stern paddlers and 
their duties. 

2. Purpose of the strokes named above. 

Privileges: 

Be allowed to take out a canoe alone under supervision in a restricted area. 
Be allowed to paint one chevron on paddle. 

Be allowed to go on an organized canoe trip. 

INTERMEDIATE AWARD 

Prerequisite —Junior Canoe Award; Swimming tests for Intermediate Red Cross 
or equivalent; Paddle a distance (cumulative) of ten miles. 

Be able to: 

1. Climb into a canoe from deep water with a partner. 

2. Paddle canoe awash, two to a canoe, by hand or with paddles . 

3. Empty a water-filled canoe at dock or shore with assistance. 

4. Get into and out of a canoe at a difficult landing place such as a rocky 
shore, etc. 


Toronto, Canada , February , 1958 


79 



5. Do the following strokes proficiently: Pushaway and Pry; Bow Rudders; 
Sculling. 

6. Paddle stern satisfactorily one-half mile in moderate wind. 

7. Change paddling side with permission of sternsman. 

8. Paddle alone on one side over a triangular course, one quarter mile 
in length. 

9. With assistance, load a canoe for an organized canoe trip. 

10. Land a canoe at a beach and dock, paddling alone. 

Know: 

1. Proper care in using a canoe on trips; e.g.—portaging, beaching, landing, 
etc. 

2. Proper length and uses of painter. 

3. How to make a minor emergency repair. 

Privileges: 

Be allowed to take out a canoe alone, with permission, within a prescribed 
area, under supervision. 

Be allowed to go on an organized canoe trip. 

Be allowed to paint second chevron on paddle. 

SENIOR AWARD 

Prerequisites —Must have had thirteenth birthday; Intermediate canoeing award; 
Senior Red Cross Award, or equivalent; paddle a distance (cumulative) of 
20 miles. 

Be able to: 

1. Swamp a canoe in deep water one hundred yards off shore, and with 
assistance, bring it to shore. 

2. Launch a canoe and remove it from the water alone. 

3. Tow an exhausted person with a canoe, in normal paddling position. 

4. Do a canoe-over-canoe rescue, with a partner. 

5. Paddle bow and stern a distance of one mile; paddling to be done on 
both sides. 

6. Paddle singly over a set course of one mile, on one side. 

7. Pass a rigid style check in all phases of canoeing up to and including the 
Senior standard. 

8. Demonstrate satisfactory participation in canoe racing. 

Know: 

1. What to do if caught in stormy weather. 

2. How to shake out a canoe full of water with assistance (two people take 
turns). 

3. The load limits (capacity) of the canoe being used (see P.9—The Canoe 
and You). 

Privileges: 

Be able to take out another paddler or a passenger within safety regulations 
of the camp. 

Be allowed to stern a canoe on a trip, under supervision. 

Be allowed to paint a third chevron on paddle. 

MASTER’S AWARD 

Prerequisites —Must have passed fifteenth birthday; test must not be completed 
before sixteenth birthday (i.e.—the equivalent of two seasons) ; Senior 
Canoeing Award; Senior Red Cross; Bronze Medallion or equivalent. 

Be able to: 

1. Propel a canoe to shore alone, a distance of 50 yards. 


80 


Canadian Camping 



2. Shake out a canoe alone (two permitted for girls), with enough water out 
to permit successful re-entry of canoeists. 

3. Climb into an upright canoe alone. 

4. Execute a canoe-over-canoe rescue alone (girls may have assistance to 
break air seal). 

5. (a) Handle a canoe alone in roughened water over a triangular course 

of a least one-quarter mile. 

(b) Paddle in roughened water to a marker 50 yards from starting point, 
touch it while going around it and return. 

6. Teach a class with proper demonstration all the strokes taken previously. 

7. Paddle an inside figure eight pattern made up of two circles, each being 
not more than fifty feet in diameter. 

8. Paddle Indian style a distance of one-quarter mile. 

9. Paddle five miles stem or solo continuously in calm weather. 

10. Show excellent paddling style and care of canoe equipment in all 
conditions. 

11. Instruct at least six persons in canoemanship, so that they have been able 
to pass the test for their class. 

12. Assume responsibility under supervision for at least a two-meal out-trip 
from the planning to the evaluation stages. 

13. Prepare a canoe properly for portaging (actual portaging recommended 
but an optional test item). 

14. Choose one of: 

(a) Construction of a practical facility for a typical canoeing programme. 

(b) Write a short accurate essay on a subject pertinent to canoemanship; 
e.g.—recovering a canoe, critique of this, testing programme, etc. 

15. Organize, conduct and evaluate, under supervision, one of: 

(a) Regatta. 

(b) Canoe demonstration. 

(c) Pageant involving canoes. 

(d) An equivalent canoeing event. 

16. Outline verbally safety requirements for the following conditions: 

(a) Instructional periods for various age groups. 

(b) Recreational canoe periods. 

(c) Examination conditions (canoe testing). 

(d) Regattas. 

(e) Out-trips. 

PRIVILEGES 

Unlimited. A canoeist having achieved the proficiency of a Master Canoeist, 
should be completely at home in a canoe. He is entitled to paint three one-inch 
chevrons and a maple leaf on his paddle. Much will be expected of anyone with 
this distinctive insignia on his paddle. 

INSTRUCTOR 

1. Must be 18 years of age. 

2. Must be Senior Canoeist or higher. 

3. Must have Royal Life Saving Society Bronze Medallion or higher. 
NOTE:—If the candidate does not hold the Master Canoeist award, the following 
items must be completed from the Master Canoeist requirements: Nos. 6, 7, 12, 
13, 15, 16. 

A further list “Notes for Instructors” will be forthcoming next year. 

Please note that “Be able to” means DO. 

Also, that “know” means DO orally or written. 

Toronto, Canada, February, 1958 


81 




LEATHERCRAFT 
Kits developed by 
experienced craftsmen 
for the inexperienced 


POPULARLY PRICED 
FROM 25c UP 



A Complete Stock of 
Leathercraft Supplies, Plastic Lacings 
and Accessories 

Revell Model Kits 
Coppersmith Kits 
Textile Painting Supplies 

_ • __ 

AVAILABLE FROM YOUR 
DEALER OR DIRECT FROM: 

CLARKE & CLARKE 

LEATHERS 

BARRIE, ONTARIO 

CANADA 

Send For Catalogue No. C 
(It's FREE) 


continued from page 63 

mony or co-operation with the other 
“specialties” and the general pro- 
gramme, and also only in so far as it 
does something for the child. Pro¬ 
gramme is a tool to build children, and 
whatever your activity, the finished 
product is the child. So it is important 
that our handling of the campers be 
consistent, and that you, in your activity, 
help them to grow and to be happy.” 

During the summer at camp, the 
staff decided to use the letters for 
discussion purposes at staff meetings, 
and many lively sessions followed. This 
proved the value of the method as a 
preliminary step for in-service training, 
but the results have even more meaning. 
They learned what had been suspected 
for some time, namely, that a pre-camp 
training programme, no matter what 
the method, needs follow-up. 

The meetings at camp were con¬ 
ducted in an informal manner with the 
camp director in the background. An 
atmosphere of complete freedom of dis¬ 
cussion was established in which any 
counsellor was encouraged to say what 
he thought. Again it was found that a 
lecture or letter might be heard or read 
and what is more, absorbed, but not 
always agreed with or acted upon. A 
lecture or a letter might be considered 
as “policy” handed down to be obeyed, 
but the observance would not neces¬ 
sarily be effective or understandingly 
performed. Since successful work with 
youngsters must be done in an atmos¬ 
phere of warmth and freedom from 
tension, compliance with the “letter of 
the law” often fails to promote growth 
and character building. The counsellor 
must feel what he is doing. 

This experience confirms the suspicion 
that free participation by the staff in 
matters of philosophy, policy and camp 
counselling is indispensable to good 
camping. The letters paved the way 
for that participation in camp, sensi¬ 
tized the staffs and invited discussion. 

— • 


82 


Canadian Camping 




Your Summer Comp 

and An Audubon Junior Cfub 


The Audubon Society of Canada is 
pleased to announce details of a plan 
to aid you with your Summer Camps 
of 1958. 

The AUDUBON JUNIOR CLUBS 
SUMMER CAMP MATERIAL will 
once again be available for 1958, and 
those of you who have had previous 
experience of an AUDUBON JUNIOR 
CLUB at your Summer Camp, know 
just how much the members have appre¬ 
ciated and enjoyed the fine selection of 
projects and activities set out in this 
material. It is easily and effectively 
integrated with the rest of your pro¬ 
gramme — swimming, hiking, boating, 
campfires, picnics or over-night trips etc. 


Whether the children are with you 
for a day, a week, a month or the 
whole summer, this plan — the theme 
of which is “exploring”— will be wel¬ 
comed with tremendous enthusiasm. 
Not only will it increase the ‘fun’ the 
children have at your camp, but it will 
create a lifelong interest in the world 
about them. 

Complete details of this material, with 
enrolment form (and details of the 
wonderful FREE offer to clubs of fifty 
or more members) may be obtained 
from the Audubon Society of Canada, 
181 Jarvis Street, Toronto, 2. 

- * 


No Camp Can Afford To Be Without 



DIXIE HOT DRINK 
HANDLE CUPS 
for coffee, 
tea, cocoa. 

DIXIE FOOD 
CONTAINERS 

for soups, stews, 
main dishes. 


A complete matching food service for 
camp feeding ... no breakage, wastage, 
inconvenience, costly wash-up. Cut labour 
costs by using Dixie Cups for all your 
feeding needs . . . Dining Rooms, Snack 
Bars, Camp Outings, etc. Available in a 
variety of sizes. 

Send for your Qpbxie ) 

FREE SAMPLE KIT. t.m.r. 


DIXIE COLD 
DRINK CUPS 
for mi Ik and 
soft drinks. 

DIXIE DESSERT 
DISHES 

for ice cream, 
stewed fruits 
and puddings. 


DIXIE COLD 
DRINK CUPS 
for fruit and 
vegetable juices. 


COATED AND 
UNCOATED PLATES 
—for all regular 
foods like meat, 
vegetables, eggs 


DIXIE CUP COMPANY 

(Canada) LTD. 

Brampton, Ontario 


*Dixie is the registered trade mark of the Dixie Cup Company. 


Toronto, Canada . February, 1958 


83 





r upRiNo i 

Prevents Rot 

in WOOD sind FABRIC 


particularly 

Foundations Posts 

Planking Timbers 

Docks Walks 

Steps Fences 

Tents Covers 

Ask for descriptive circular 
and price list. 

H. M. PERRY LTD. 

47 Colborne St. 

TORONTO — CANADA 


GUMPERT HAS EVERYTHING 


1 Gelabne 

Extracts and Colour, 

1 complete “£d«W I 


FOR THE FINEST IN FOODS 


GUMPERT 


HAS EVERYTHING 


S. GUMPERT CO. OF CANADA, LTD. 

31 BROCK AVE., TORONTO ME. 5758 


Sermons . . * 

Unber %\)c §s>u\\ 

Last fall, the Editorial Committee 
asked camp directors to submit a short 
sermonette or a Thought for the Day. 
From time to time we will include these 
contributions in the hope that the 
theme or the germ of the idea will 
provide the necessary spark for other 
talks at other camps at times when 
inspirational addresses are required. 

The following, Patches of Sunshine, 
was delivered at Camp Ponacka by the 
Rev. Peter Slater, a graduate in Divinity 
from Cambridge University who was a 
member of Ponacka staff last summer: 

A young boy once asked me, “Why 
can’t I see God?” I replied, “Well, God 
is everywhere, and you can’t see every¬ 
where at once, can you?” Later on, I 
was a bit ashamed at such a slick 
answer, but when I thought about it 
I realized that perhaps it was right. 
God is everywhere. 

The Sun teaches us something about 
this truth. What happens if we look 
straight at the sun? . . . That’s right, 
Wayne, it hurts our eyes. But I don’t 
have to look straight at the sun to know 
that it’s shining. I can tell by the 
sunlight on the lake and in the woods. 
And, what is more, I can tell better by 
looking in some places rather than in 
others. If you look where Eddie is 
sitting you can see the sun streaming 
through the windows. That spot is full 
of light. But over in this corner is 
shadow and darkness. I can tell better 
that the sun is shining by looking at 
that patch of light where Eddie is. 

Now God is rather like this. Even a 
very strong man probably cannot look 

continued on page 90 


84 


Canadian Camping 









THINGS TO MAKE YOURSELF 

Glenn Wagner 

Here are forty-one tested projects for 
“make-it-yourself” fans, many of which 
are fine ideas for the camp’s craft or 
carpentry shop. Mr. Wagner, author 
of THE BOOK OF HOBBYCRAFT 
and HOBBYCRAFT FOR EVERY¬ 
BODY, has designed them with the 
beginner in mind. Most of them would 
take only one or two sessions to com¬ 
plete, the exceptions being those such 
as a 1 clever combination bench and 
picnic table (a park bench whose back 
can be tilted back to become a table), 
and a “Nee Deep” 8-foot Utility Boat. 

Many of the projects employ simple 
things we find lying around at home 
or camp; a counsellor who started 
collecting them now would have a good 
supply of cheap materials by camp time. 
The variety includes wood, metal, tex¬ 
tiles, electrical and general handicraft 
materials. Large tomato juice cans are 
the basis of a clever Waterscope for 
exploring life, old burned-out light bulbs 
can be painted (you dip them first in 
vinegar to make poster paint stick) 
to become Kilowatt characters — whis- 



By Dorothy M. Douglas 


kers, hair, hats added to taste A Ford 
hubcap from the junk yard becomes 
an outdoor grill; a small-necked glass 
bottle, plastic drinking straw, cork, etc. 
becomes a barometer like to old sea 
captain’s glass. Short lengths of used 
candles melted into paper cups and 
then painted turn into Teepee Candles 
for a party or banquet. There are 
designs for saddle bags and luggage 
racks for bicycles, miniature out-board 
racers, chuckwagon burger-boards — 
many of which appear in BOYS’ LIFE 
Magazine. Dodd Mead & Company 
(Canada) Ltd. $37507 

EASY TO MAKE 

OUTDOOR PLAY EQUIPMENT 

Reginald R. Hawkins 

The author’s experience with his 
family of four children ranging in age 
from two-and-a-half to eleven years 
has been the inspiration for these 40 
varied pieces of long-lasting play equip¬ 
ment. Guided by the step-by-step dir¬ 
ections and illustrations, an amateur 
carpenter can construct them with 
simple hand tools, knowing his efforts 
will be rewarded as the children jump, 


Toronto, Canada, February, 1958 


85 










THREE C RANCH 

(2 miles south of the Airport) 

R.R. 4, MALTON, PHONE BU. 6-4744 

The only Canadian Equitation School 
operated by a Certified Instructor 

Breeders of the best in Children's Horses or Ponies 

Protect your Campers by using only Qualified Instructors 
Consult us on our 

“COURSES FOR RIDING COUNSELLORS” 

INTENSIVE INDIVIDUAL INSTRUCTION 
IN HORSEMANSHIP AND HORSEMASTERSHIP 

1958 Courses April 14th to June 21st 
Lire in accommodation for Students 

(Prop. J. Cusack, graduate Weedon Equitation School) 


COMPLETE 

CAMP BUILDING SERVICE 

ANYWHERE IN ONTARIO OR QUEBEC 

FOR REFERENCES AS TO CAMP WORK CONTACT 

CAMP WABI-KON 
CAMP NORTHLAND 
CAMP B'NAI B'RITH 
MOTHERS' AND BABES CAMP 
CAMP WHITE PINE 

John Seguin 

GENERAL BUILDING CONTRACTOR 

415 Second Avenue East — NORTH BAY, Ontario 

Telephone GRover 2-5217 



86 


Canadian Camping 






slide, crawl and climb in safe enjoy¬ 
ment. Junior camps and summer play¬ 
grounds could set up or supplement 
their equipment from these designs. 
There are the standard devices (sand¬ 
boxes, swings, seesaws, fences, a swing¬ 
ing gate, play-houses), and special nov¬ 
elties like an artificial brook and a 
home-made carousel. Among the simple 
and ingenious items are a Hillside Slide 
made of plywood with cleats to prevent 
slipping downhill, a Wheel Seesaw for 
three children, two firm Log Piles for 
climbing and jumping, and a “Through 
and Over” made of a concrete sewer 
tile, two flights of steps, and a platform, 
a design using discarded railway ties. 
New York, The Macmillan Company; 
Toronto, Brett-Macmillan Ltd. $2.95. 

THE BIRD BIOGRAPHIES 
OF JOHN JAMES AUDUBON 

Selected and edited by Alice Ford 

It is over a hundred years ago that 
Audubon, the greatest bird and animal 
painter who ever lived, completed his 
ORNITHOLOGICAL BIOGRAPH¬ 
IES as text to his great Folio THE 
BIRDS OF AMERICA. These biogra¬ 
phies are among the classics of Ameri¬ 
can literature, yet copies of the several 
volumes are rare and expensive, avail¬ 
able only to collectors or professional 
scholars. 

In order that many more of us may 
learn for ourselves the charm and 
quality of the originals, Alice Ford, an 
outstanding authority on Audubon, has 
selected and edited eighty of the most 
interesting and characteristic of his 
bird biographies. Her collection is 
illustrated with twelve examples of 
Audubon’s drawings (which were in 
water-colour and chalk) from the 
Harvard University Library collection, 
beautifully reproduced here for the first 
time in four-colour gravure. 

While there are a good number of 
books whose contents are efficiently 


arranged to help with location and 
identification, this reviewer has never 
read “biographies” that convey with 
with such affection and appreciation 
the character of each bird, or enable 
one to picture, indeed almost project 
oneself into, its habitat. Each study is 
absorbing, delightful. I doubt one can 
find anywhere — even in Fenimore 
Cooper — a counterpart for his writ¬ 
ings of the wilderness, the jottings in 
ledgers and old journals which, re¬ 
corded originally for his own satisfac¬ 
tion, were skillfully edited by William 
McGillivray, an Edinburgh scientist, 
artist and writer. Many of Audubon’s 
observations took place in the Southern 
States, Louisiana in particular, yet most 
of the birds described in this collection 
appear also in Canada (he calls it “The 
British Provinces”, a reminder that he 
was writing in the days of our frontier 
past, 1826 to 1839.) New York, The 
Macmillan Company; Toronto, Brett- 
Macmillan Ltd. $10.00 

The Craft Books of Ellsworth Jaegar 
Just a reminder about two excellent 
books, EASY GRAFTS and NATURE 
CRAFTS, by EUsworth Jaeger whose 
WILDWOOD WISDOM is well known 
to camping people everywhere. This 
reviewer recently visited the Buffalo 
Museum of Science at Plumboldt Park 
in Buffalo with which Mr. Jaegar has 
been associated. Don’t go anywhere 
near Buffalo without seeing it! To 
mention the bird exhibits alone, you can 
look into a “shop window” on a scene, 
a marsh or maybe a meadow, where the 
birds, flowers and trees of such an area 
are so realistically grouped you can all 
but hear them sing. The wonderful 
collections and life-like methods of dis¬ 
play compare favourably with the Chi¬ 
cago Museum of Natural History, prob¬ 
ably the most inspiring nature museum 
on this continent. (Mr. Jaegar’s craft 
books are published by T he Macmi llan 
Comp any). 


Toronto, Canada, February, 1958 


87 



RIDE WI1H THE SUN children of other lands. McGraw-Hill 

United Nations Women’s Guild Go. of Canada, Ltd., Toronto. $4.05. 


This is an anthology of folk tales 
from the member countries of The 
United Nations, the stories being ar¬ 
ranged to “ride with the sun” from 
East to West around the world. Crippled 
orphans in Haiti, deaf mutes in Indo¬ 
nesia and homeless boys from the slums 
of Lima, Peru, are among the children 
who have been helped by the sale of 
this book. It was published in New 
York in 1955 and in the first year 
royalties amounting to over $2,300 
were donated to children’s charities 
such as those mentioned above. This 
book would be a good addition to the 
camp library, or the tales could be read 
aloud in the rest hour or fireside even¬ 
ing. We shall be offering suggestions in 
the next issue of CANADIAN CAMP¬ 
ING on publications and materials to 
awaken an interest and awareness 
among our fortunate Canadian campers 
of the way of life, the needs, the oppor¬ 
tunities we have to know and help 


SKILL IN GAMES 
UHelen L. Bryans and 
Roberta Charlesworth 
At times, when a true sports enthus¬ 
iast appears on the staff, there is great 
need for a handbook that goes into 
infinite detail about the playing of 
games which might be introduced to 
the campers. Skill In Games is just 
such a book, with its material so deftly 
organized and presented for quick learn¬ 
ing through an extensive use of dia¬ 
grams, drawings and photographs. For 
perusal before camp, the counsellor will 
do well to review the teaching methods. 
Field athletics, suggestions for pro¬ 
gramme and an outline of the different 
types of competitions and tournaments 
will serve to efficiently organize the 
highlight events every camper antici¬ 
pates as an important part of his 
summer life. J. M. Dent & Sons (Can¬ 
ada), Limited, Toronto. $3. 

E.F. 



88 


Canadian Camping 





A Training Course for 
Camp Directors and 
Senior Staff 

The University of Toronto, Depart¬ 
ment of University Extension has again 
co-operated with the Ontario Camping 
Association in presenting a course of 
eight lectures for camp directors and 
senior staff. The series opens on Febru¬ 
ary 6th, 1958, and closes on April 3rd, 
with one week omitted (March 6) 
because of the camping conference. 
Time: 8.00 P.M. to 10.00 P.M. Price: 
$10 for eight lectures. 

It is hoped that any directors from 
anywhere in Canada who have staff 
members in Toronto will sponsor their 
attendance at this course, the pro¬ 
gramme for which appears below: 

Lectures 1, 2, 3 

Mr. J. A. McIntyre, Associate Director, 
Dept, of University Extension, 
University of Toronto. 

Training and Supervision of Staff 
Lectures 4, 5, 6 

Miss Ruth Carruthers, Senior Dietitian, 
Neighbourhood Workers Assn. 

Kitchen Equipment 
Food Management 
Kitchen Personnel 

Lecture 7 

Mr. F. M. VanWagner, President, 
Canadian Camping Association 

The Mark of Good Camping 
Lecture 8 

Mr .J. A. McIntyre, 

University of Toronto 

Public Relations 

$10 for eight lectures 

Payable to the University of Toronto 


Time is Money 


Modern 
camp directors 
save both 
by consulting 



SUPERIOR 

PROPANE 

26 S». Clair Ave. E. 
Toronto 
WAInut 4-7441 


SUPPLIERS OF APPLIANCES 

FOR 

• cooking • water heating • refrigeration 
• space heating • garbage incineration 
• laundry • baking and frying 


YOUR SUPPLY HOUSE 
FOR THE FOLLOWING 

• Chairs 
• Tables 
• Mattresses 
• Springs 
• Blankets 
• Sheets 
• Crockery 
• Glassware 
• Silverware 
• Kitchenware 

CASSIDY'S LTD. 

HOTEL DIVISION 

601 Brown's Line Toronto 
(ISLINGTON) 

Phone BElmont 1-4181 


Toronto, Canada , February, 1958 


89 




Wholesale 
Medical 
Supplies .. . 

Medical Equipment 
First Aid Requirements 
Medicines 

• 

Prices Lower Faster Service 

STARKMAN CHEMISTS 

459 Bloor St . W. - Toronto 


IF SAFETY IS A 
FACTOR 

YOU MUST CONSIDER 
AER-O-BUOY 

FLUTTER BOARDS 

FLOAT MARKERS 
RING BUOYS 

PADDLE BOARDS 

a 

BEACH POOL & CAMP 
SUPPLY COMPANY 

Specialists in Aer-O-Buoy 
Buoyancy Products 

Box 97, Oakville, Ontario 


continued from page 74 

Perhaps you have a written history 
in your particular neck of the woods. 
The local newspaper office ought to be 
able to give you information; and you 
may even be able to track down some 
books. We have stories of a local settle¬ 
ment of British emigrants which failed, 
(and we have a host of deserted houses 
to bear witness to the tragedy) ; and 
local square dances; three perfect, little 
Anglican churches; and a well-laid-out, 
non-existent village! And campers are 
enthralled! 

It is all a matter of asking questions 
and listening to your neighbours. And 
it is well worth the effort of collection, 
for campers never seem to tire of this 
painless method of enlarging horizons. 


continued from page 84 

right in His face. Yet God is every¬ 
where and we can tell better that He is 
there by looking in some places rather 
than others. The best place to look is 
in the lives of people who really live 
the way God wants them to do; as 
Jesus did. There especially we can say 
God is near and at work. 

Two points are important here. First, 
God is everywhere: we need never feel 
lonely and without friends. Secondly, 
you must live the way God wants you 
to, so that you may be patches of His 
sunlight. Then people can look at you 
especially and know that God is really 
here. You can be a patch of God’s 
sunshine for somebody else. 


When Ordering/ 

PLEASE REMEMBER 

oust 

A D VER TISER S 


90 


Canadian Camping 














continued from page 69 
parents in the selection of the camp 
best suited to their needs. A map of 
the camp itself, showing layout, the 
location of the buildings, swimming, 
boating, riding and other areas, woods, 
etc., will improve the brochure appeal. 

The brochure may contain a list of 
parents whose children have attended 
the camp and the number of seasons, 
references of educators, camp consul¬ 
tants, physicians and others. 

It is not necessary to produce a 
brochure each year. Once an attractive 
and effective piece of literature is 
printed, enough copies can be printed 
for use over a period of two, three or 
four years. Additional copies can be 
printed at little additional cost. Then 
each year, as the original brochure is 
used, smaller supplements may be printed 
or mimeographed to send along with 
the brochure to indicate any changes 
which may have occurred in camp 
plans, equipment, policy or tuition. 

. A camp motto which points up the 
objectives of the^camp will remain in 
t Ke~rmhd of the reader~~and~ should~be~~ 

e mphasized by being placed in a promi ¬ 

ne nt position in all the camp literatur e 
a nd letterhead. 

The securing of good photographs of 
camp activities, camper groups, cabin 
groups, beautiful scenes, buildings 
should be planned in advance and a 
photographer should be engaged early 
to spend two or three days in the camp 
to get effective pictures. Planned shots 
should be studied by the director and 
photographer. Hit-and-miss photos used 
in the literature will give a hit-and-miss 
appearance. 

Since the promotion literature used 
often will represent the camp before the 
director makes his visits to prospective 
parents and campers, it should be as 
attractively and as colorfully designed 
as ingenuity, budget and printing can 
make it. Camp literature will give the 
reader some impression of the camp. 

— • 


HOBART 
Food Machines 

• • m 

Meat Choppers 
Mixers 

Potato Peelers 
Food Slicers 
Power Meat Saw 
Steakmaster 

Dish and Glass Washers 
Food Cutters 

• 

Hobart Manufacturing 
Company Limited 
175 George Street, Toronto 

Branches Across Canada 


GOVERNMENT SURPLUS 

and 

CAMPING SUPPLIES 

for 

BOY SCOUTS - CAMPERS 
SPORTSMEN 
and 

GENERAL OUTDOOR ACTIVITIES 

• 

ST. LAWRENCE MARKET 
SURPLUS SALES 

157 King Street East 

(next door to St. Lawrence Market) 

Toronto 1, Ont. 

EM. 6-4565 EM. 3-9863 

WJLLOWDALE STORE 
Parking Facilities 

5439 Yonge St. BA. 1-3015 

Special Discounts to Camps 

VISIT OUR BOOTH AT THE CONFERENCE 


Toronto , Canada, February , 1958 


91 
















Protect 

YOUR CAMPERS... 

Protect 

. . . YOURSELF 

Against 

ACCIDENTS 

and 

SICKNESS 

For full particulars of Campers 
Special Indemnity Insurance 
Contact 

LYON & HARVEY 

LIMITED 

TORONTO 

55 Yonge St. - EM. 4-4277 


Book of Indian Life Crafts 
Oscar E. Norbeck - - $5.95 

Here is the “how to do” for crafts 
and skills that were daily essential in 
the lives of the Indians . . . explained 
in clear text and more than 60 full- 
page pictures so that youngsters and 
oldster, beginner or veteran craftsman 
can start work immediately on any of 
the nearly 200 projects. 

Arranged for greatest appeal and 
convenience, projects deal first with 
personal items like Indian vests, moc¬ 
casins, dresses and ornaments, then 
lead to the construction of family and 
tribal artifacts such as a tepee, an 
authentic Indian garden, musical 
instruments, sports and hunting equip¬ 
ment, dance masks and other cere¬ 
monial equipment, pictographs, peace 
pipes, travois and scores more. Indian 
ceremonial, smoke signal and cooking 
fires are explained in detail, with 
proper safety precautions in their use. 

Order from your regular bookseller 

G. R. WELCH CO. LTD. 

1149 King Street West Toronto 3 


continued, from page 68 

lighting. Smith carried, or had tied to 
his saddle, a short club and when the 
battle was on he usually waded in, 
trying to hit the beast without striking 
a dog. As he was an expert with the 
club, from long practice through killing 
many coyotes over the years, he nearly 
always succeeded, though at times the 
fight might last several minutes before 
he was able to give the animal its coup 
de grace. 

This country had been originally 
buffalo land and then cattle country. 
The coyote and cows were compatible. 
In the sheep lands the coyote is a 
menace that the sheepherder must battle 
at all times. There is a fundamental 
clash between the prairie wolf and the 
man, for these animals slaughter the 
sheep whenever they are left unpro¬ 
tected. In this country the wolves were 
plentiful, they could be heard far and 
near every night, and running them 
with dogs was a popular sport. They 
occasionally raided the poultry houses, 
but not often enough to make them a 
nuisance to the farmers, for one or two 
hounds running loose in the farmyard 
would make them stand away. Running 
them with the dogs controlled and kept 
their numbers low. 

Coyotes, as they affect cattle in a 
stock country, are carrion eaters; they 
clean up the dead cows so that disease 
is controlled. Rabbits and rodents of 
other kinds are their main diet, but it 
should be stressed that this wolf will 
take the most readily available food. It 
can be rabbits, gophers, carrion livestock 
or poultry, anything is edible if they can 
get it down. They seem to prefer live 
food, for if the big jacks, or the gophers 
are plentiful the wolves will take these 
in preference to other foods. 

Bounties on these wolves were popular 
at that time. Control of animals by 
bounty has always been approved by the 
legislatures for they can be easily applied, 


92 


Canadian Camping 





give good results in skins or skulls, and 
make the minimum bother as well as 
pleasing the majority of the voters. 
Unfortunately, bounties will not control 
pests. Bounties are paid on animals that 
might be called surplus. Over the years 
the numbers of any animal will fluctuate 
widely, high in summer and becoming 
low just before the breeding season. 
When a long period is studied it is seen 
that the numbers will vary widely over 
a short period but remain almost con¬ 
stant over a long time. That is fifty 
years ago there was nearly the same 
number and provided there are no 
radical changes, such as a country grow¬ 
ing up to trees where it was formerly 
grass, fifty years from now the numbers 
will be the same as they were fifty years 
ago. Bounties, as has been shown time 
and again, will not control any creature. 

—o 


UNLESS THERE IS A LIGHT 

Children fear their shadows, 

Yet have no cause for fright; 

There cannot be a shadow 
Unless there is a light. 

If you can see your shadow, 

The sight can only mean 
That light is shining, but yourself 
Has gotten in between. 

There is no less of radiance, 

But you have blocked the sight . . . 
Stop looking at the shadow, 

Start looking at the light. 

—Anon. 


“if it’s in the recreation line 

... I have it . . . or can get it” 

PLAYGROUND, ATHLETIC and SHUFFLE BOARD EQUIPMENT • CHAIN LINK FENCING • BASEBALL 
BACKSTOPS • ANYTHING IN PIPE • ARTIFICIAL ICE RINKS • CURLING RINKS, ETC. 
SWIMMING POOL EQUIPMENT • WADING POOLS • SWIMMING POOLS • BUILDERS SUPPLIES 
RUBBER BASE PAINTS • PYE (TRANSHAILERS) LOUD SPEAKERS 400 YARD RANGE • PARK BENCHES 
and TABLES • BICYCLE RACKS • GRAY COACH CHARTERED BUSES 
WRITE FOR INFORMATION ON ANY OF ABOVE 

FREE CONSULTATION SERVICES 

oscar pear sen enterprises 

RIVERDALE TERRACE, DANFORTH AND BROADVIEW AVENUES 

TORONTO 6 - HO. 5-5418 - HO. 5-5417 


NORTHERN ONTARIO'S FINEST RECREATIONAL AREA, FROM 
NORTH BAY TO MOOSONEE, IS SERVED BY 

ONTARIO NORTHLAND RAILWAY 

For information on desirable areas for Camps in new territory 
apply to: 

R. P. C. McLEOD, 

Traffic Manager, 

Ontario Northland Railway, 
North Bay, Ontario. 


7 oronto , Canada, February, 1958 


93 





CRESTED AND PLAIN 


SWEATSHIRTS & 
T-SHIRTS 
CRESTS 
PENNANTS 


SPENCER BROS. 

103 Richmond St. East, 

TORONTO, ONT. 


EM. 3-8958 


FIRE HAZARD 

Protect your valuable buildings and 
equipment from destruction. 

Bucket Brigades are Obsolete 

Canada’s largest manufacturer of all 
types of fire hose offers complete fire 
fighting units consisting of hose, pump, 
nozzles, etc. Phone or write— 

GEORGE ANGUS 
(CANADA) LIMITED 

11 Curity Toronto 16 

Avenue Ontario 


Contact us for 

Parts and Accessories 

for the famous 

A C K R O Y D 
DINGHIES 

J. J. TAYLOR & SONS LTD. 

BOAT BUILDERS AND MARINE SUPPLIES 
ON THE WESTERN CHANNEL—TORONTO 


OUR FRIENDS. . . 
The Advertisers 

American Camping Association. 95 

George Angusf (Can.) Ltd. 94 

Beach Pool & Camp Supply Co. 90 

J. H. Beattie. 48 

Cassidy’s Ltd. 89 

Clarke & Clarke Leathers. 82 

Continental Casualty Co. 

Outside Back Cover 

Continental Yacht Sales. 49 

J. M. Dent & Sons (Canada), Ltd. 72 

Dixie Cup Company (Can.) Ltd. 83 

T. Eaton Co. Ltd......47 

Foodcraft Laboratories Ltd. 74 

General Plastics Ltd. 54 

Gibbon^ Foods Ltd.Inside Front Cover 

S. Gumpert Co. of Can. Ltd.. 84 

Hobart Mfg. Co. Ltd....:—— .91 

Lyon & Harvey Ltd...92 

McKague Chemical Co. Ltd. 51 

Maple Leaf Plastics Ltd. 50 

Ontario Northland Railway. 93 

Parents’ Magazine. 75 

H. M. Perry, Ltd. 84 

Oscar Pearson Enterprises. 93 

Peninsula Screen Arts... 78 

Redbook Magazine. 52 

St. Lawrence Market Surplus Sales. 91 

John Seginri„l... 86 

Skirt ’n’ ..Sweater Shop. 78 

Starkman Chemists Ltd. 90 

Spencer Bros. 94 

Superior Propane Ltd. 89 

J. J. Taylor & Sons Ltd. 94 

Tom Taylor Co. Ltd. 88 

Three C Ranch. 86 

Tobra Sa’es. 88 

Vaunclair Purveyors Ltd.....- 50 

Vermont Accident Insurance Co.. 48 

G. R. Welch Co. Ltd. 92 

G. H. Wood & Co. Ltd. 52 


CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING 
RATES: 

Ten cents a word, minimum four 
dollars. All classified advertising pay¬ 
able in advance. Address all corres¬ 
pondence to “Canadian Camping”, 
170 Bloor Street West, Toronto, 
Ontario. 


94 


Canadian Camping 












































we're 



6\^ 6 



Can Order These 
PUBLICATIONS 


From 

AMERICAN CAMPING 
ASSOCIATION 

Martinsville, Indiana 



THE CAMP NURSE —50c 

A guide to help the camp nurse in her duties 
and responsibilities. 25pp. 




ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY ON CAMPING — 
PLUS SUPPLEMENT — 65c 

A ready reference to hundreds of books and 
pamphlets on camping. 


ADMINISTRATIVE FORMS AND SUGGESTED 
PROCEDURES IN THE AREA OF PERSONNEL 
— 35c 

Designed as a guide to such problems as personnel 
manual, job descriptions, staff contracts, evalua¬ 
tions, etc. 


Write for Complete List of Our Publications 






















INCREASING RESPONSE 

for 

CONTINENTAL’S CAMP-GUARD PLAN 

HAS GUARANTEED ITS 
AVAILABILITY 
FOR ANOTHER YEAR 

DISPLAY THIS SYMBOL 

STICKERS AVAILABLE FOR YOUR STATIONERY 

A choice of plans for all organizational, church and 
private camps providing broad medical expense 
protection for each accident and each sickness at low 
cost group rates for both campers and staff members. 

Put CAMP-GUARD on your programme. Display 
this symbol and let parents know your camp is 
covered. This symbol of outstanding coverage 
assures them you take added interest in your 
camper's welfare, by providing a CAMP-GUARD 
accident and sickness plan. 

Your local insurance agent will help you choose the 
right plan for your camp; or write our nearest office 
for full particulars. 

CONTINENTAL CASUALTY COMPANY 

SPECIAL RISKS DIVISION 

675 Wes! 1 Hastings Street 160 Bloor St. East 1510 Drummond Street 

VANCOUVER TORONTO MONTREAL 

TAtbw 6381 WAInut 4-4692 MArquette 5306 







