

OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 




CANADIAN CAMPING 


* '< ' 






tpril 1953 

rORONTO, CANADA 














5 to 1 

JELLY POWDERS 



5 to 1 

PUDDING POWDERS 

• 

LEMON PIE FILLING 


7 to 1 

FRUIT RICKEY 

Lime, Lemon, Orange, Grape 

• 

CAKE MIXES 

White, Chocolate, Ginger, Spice 

Pancake, Brownie 


10 pound canister makes 360 servings 
2 pound sealed tube makes 72 servings 

— A CENT A SERVING — 

Hundreds of Camp Directors know these top quality products 
have more flavor and give more servings than any other. 

— Prepared in 20 minutes — 


This Telephone . . . 

EMPIRE 6-5085 

... is open 

for you night and day to place your order or have our salesman call 
or ask for samples -- no obligation. 


GIBBONS 


Quickset 

^ FOR DESSERTS 
i^UALITY 


ORDER OFFICE: 106 ADELAIDE ST. WEST. TORONTO, CANADA 













A reminder to all chose who are laying plans now for a 

better-than-ever Summer season ahead . . whether in 
hotels, lodges or camps that Eaton*s Contract Sales Depart¬ 
ment IS wise and experienced in every phase 
of Resort work, from designing new interiors or renovating old 
to furnishing the last detailed item of equipment. 


CONTRACT SALES 



Toronto^ Canada^ Aprils 1953 


3 









Have you ever seen 

A SUMNER RESORT DESK? 



O Yes, there really is such a things . . . though we must 
admit it looks more business-like than the one above! The 
“Summer Resort Desk” is an actual department at Swift 
Canadian ... set up for the sole purpose of giving special 
service to the summer resort trade. 

All you do is list your requirements and give to your 
Swift salesman—or fill in an order form from product and 
price lists supplied by us, put it in the mail, and we do the 
rest. Swift’s Summer Resort Department will see that you 
get action—fast! Once or twice each week your order will 
be shipped to your nearest railway centre. And it will be 
a COMPLETE order! There won’t be any shortages. 

Use this special Swift service for your meat supplies 
this summer. Let Swift’s keep you supplied with ALL the 
fine Swift products! Just drop a line to the “Summer Resort 
Department”, Swift Canadian Co., Limited, Toronto — or 
your nearest Swift Canadian plant, or branch. 

SWIFT CANADIAN €0., LIMITED 


Canadian Camping 









Vol. V 


APRIL, 1953 


No. 2 ■ 


CONTENTS 


What Imagination Brings. A Teen-age Camper 7 

Is the Child ready for Camp.. Dorothy M. Douglas 8 

Is the Camp ready for the Child. Mary L. Northway 11 

Hot Showers in Camps.. J?. K. Cleverdon 14 

Nature Education in Summer Gamps. A, F. Helmsley 

and J, D, Roseborough 16 

Camp Counselling is Channel Number One. Alan F Klein 19 

Canadian Camping Association Newsletter. W. E, (Ted) Yard 21 

Notes from the Camping Associations . 22 

What is your Opinion ..... 23 

You might like to know. 24 

Book Reviews. 26 

Weather Lore. 3 q 

The Counsellor I want for my Son. Walter MaePeek 31 


Cover Photo from Camp Xawagama 


CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 
Office: 236 Bloor St. W., Toronto 


Honorary President 

A. L. Cochrane, Toronto 

Past Presidents 

Taylor Statten, Toronto 
Dais L. Gass, Montreal 
Anne I. Vail, Montreal 


Executive-Secretary 
Joyce Bertram 
236 Bloor St. W., Toronto 

Treasurer 

Clifford Labbett 

252 Snowdon Ave., Toronto 

Editor 


President 

W. E. (Ted) Yard 
Central Y.M.G.A. 

40 College St., Toronto 

Vice Presidents 

Irwin Haladner, Toronto 
F. M. Van Wagner, Montreal 
Mrs. I. H. McDonald, Manitoba 


Mary S. Edgar 

64 St. Clair Ave. W., Toronto 

Assistant Editor 
Mary L. Northway 
164 Mill Street 
Richmond Hill, Ontario 

Publishing Agent 
Fred Haiblen 

170 Bloor St. W., Toronto 


AUTHORIZED AS SECOND CLASS MAIL. POST OFFICE DEPArVmFNT^ O^TAW;. On“ "*"®- 


Toronto, Canada, April, 1953 


5 

















ANCO SEPTIC TANK CLEANER 


also 


and ACTIVATER. For trouble-free operation of 
Septic Tanks and Drain Fields. Anco restores 
waste-clogged tanks to normal efficiency . . . 
eliminates odors and protects health. It keeps 
any properly-built Septic Tank in top working 
condition. 



Write us today for 
corfipfste informotion on 
any of these quality 
McKemco Products. 


Canadian Camping 




What 

Imagination Brings 


T o imaginative people lif e ofTers 
richness and joy beyond measure. Just 
the mention of a name, a season^ a line 
of a poem or song^ and you are trans¬ 
ported into another realm. Spring! and 
you see the tender green of the opening 
budSj hear the jubilant songs of birds^ 
smell the fragrance of the awakening 
earth, and thrill to the quickening 
pulses of returning life. Autumn! and 
you think of the harvest, the glowing 
splendor of reddening trees, and dry 
leaves whirling in the wind. 

You read of far-off lands, Spain and 
Cathay, India and Egypt, Persia and 
Greece. You see their strange scenes, 
more beautiful than any reality—busy 
bazaars and market places crowded 
with a motley throng in fantastic attire, 
ancient cities and towers against a sun¬ 
set sky. You hear shrill foreign cries 
and the dull booming of the temple 
gongs. 

Tales of the sea stir your admiration, 
fear and wonder. You hear the inces¬ 
sant roaring of the waves breaking, now 


on a moonlit sandy beach, now on 
barren wind-blown rocks, but always 
majestic, free and splendid. Or tales of 
rivers, winding to the sea through 
pleasant rolling meadow lands, and 
peaceful farms, or dashing in foaming 
spray over a great precipice with 
monotonous roar. 

But there is one word. Gamp, that 
will bring not fancies but memories to 
us: memories of days spent by a lake, 
a lake whose waves danced in the sun¬ 
light or rippled by moonlight against 
the white sands; memories of hours 
passed beneath pines and birches, or on 
quiet hillsides: memories of nights 
under the stars, sitting around the 
campfire singing old familiar songs, 
when the ascending flames seemed to 
make the surrounding night blacker, 
and the slender silver birches stand like 
swords out-swung between earth and 
sky. Or we recall friends we have made, 
the experiences shared, and with the 
glamor that imagination and memory 
can give. 

—A Teen-age Camper 



Toronto, Canada^ Aprils 1953 


1 





Is the Child Ready 


for Camp? 


Dorothy M. Douglas 

Reprinted from the Bulletin of the Institute of Child Study, University of Toronto 


‘‘Canadians are Campers”! With our 
wonderful heritage of lakes and woods, 
winding trails and sparkling streams, 
our colourful history of daring explora¬ 
tion and adventure, is it any wonder 
that the campfire has often been looked 
upon as the symbol of Canada? Is it 
any wonder that the lore of the home 
fireside is rich in variations of the 
“fish-that-got-awa/’ tale, or that our 
boys’ and girls’ dream castles so often 
take the form of a tent or cabin by the 
water’s edge? 

On one of the last days in June 
you and I will possibly happen on a 
scene which is being enacted in hun¬ 
dreds of towns and cities evety year— 
at bus depots, at railway stations, out¬ 
side the Y.M.C.A., the church hall, the 
Kiwanis boys’ club, the Girl Guides 
headquarters. An excited group of 
parents and children are gathering, 
laden with knapsacks, suitcases, sports 
equipment. Those children who see 
friends in the group are darting over 
to greet them, planning eagerly to sit 
together on the journey, comparing 
their new treasures—a jack-knife, a 
fishing rod, an exotic water ball. The 
newcomers are sticking rather close to 
Mother, sizing up the crowd and won¬ 
dering uneasily what is ahead—why is 
the man taking away our suitcases, who 
will tuck us in bed, what will happen 
if we are sick? The leader or counselor 


comes to greet them, offering reassur¬ 
ances, introducing the new children to 
the seasoned campers. The shout of 
“all aboard” sets off a babble of last 
minute admonitions and farewells from 
the parents. Amidst much waving and 
shouting the camp party sets off—• 
another camping season has begun. 

If we were to draw aside a couple of 
typical children, campers of last year 
returning for more, and ask them what 
they are looking forward to at camp, 
we would be almost sure to find that 
the essence of their replies is Fun, 
Friends, and Food. We know that 
actually through these three “F’s” the 
camp has a golden opportunity to 
develop physical and mental health, 
skill in social relationships, and all the 
other fine qualities described in psy¬ 
chology books and discovered in the 
realities of the good life. Whether this 
potentially fine opportunity will actually 
be a thrilling experience for the child 
depends on whether he is ready for it 
and is sufficiently mature to enter the 
life of the particular camp, a life that 
is entirely different from that of 
parents and home, requiring its par¬ 
ticular skills and making its particular 
demands. 

As secretary of the Ontario Camping 
Association, the writer received numer¬ 
ous enquiries from parents who were 


8 


Canadian Camping 



seeking help and advice on how to 
choose a camp for their children. It 
developed that a very great number 
of these children were anywhere from 
four to seven years of age . The parents’ 
reai^ons for sending the children to 
camp generally arose from their desire 
to provide a special opportunity for 
growth and development and fun; per¬ 
haps in some cases other motives might 
have been present, but these are not 
our concern here. The real question 
that has grown in our mind is this— 
have we some way in which we can 
gauge the child’s readiness for a camp 
experience? Has he within himself the 
security to go forward into the un- 
lamiliar, the desire for adventure in 
new surroundings, the independence to 
“manage” away from familiar scenes 
and faces, and in a new type of daily 
programme? 

It has been established that there is 
a point of readiness at which a child 
can start learning to read effectively 
and with enjoyment. Attempts to teach 
him before this point is reached are not 
only a waste of valuable hours, which 
could be spent learning in other areas 
where the child is ready, but tensions 
are set up which slow down the whole 
progress of learning. Besides which, in 
all likelihood, he will dislike reading. Is 
there not a parallel situation with 
camping—the first prolonged visit away 
from home? We are aware that a child 
moves forward exploring, learning, en¬ 
deavouring, so long as he finds his new 
experiences pleasurable, so long as he 
can meet the strangeness and fearful¬ 
ness of the unfamiliar with the courage 
developed in a succession of ventures 
into new areas which were none of 
them, at the time, more than he could 
bear. He can take a change of suround- 
ings, of people, of routine, and new 
demands on his energies, if he is physi¬ 
cally ready as well as psychologically 
secure. How can we estimate a child’s 
“camp readiness”? 


Is the child ready physically? We 
know that children of five and six are 
bursting with energy, but—or shall we 
say because of this—they tire easily. 
Has the child learned to stop before he 
is exhausted, and can he amuse himself 
quietly by himself for a reasonable time? 
He’ll want to keep up with his fellows 
most of the time, of course, because if 
he has to drop out of the general activi¬ 
ties for any time he may get left behind 
by those whose friendship he values and 
needs. Is he used to the general run 
of foods? There are no special diets in 
most camps. On the whole, young 
campers lose a little weight rather than 
gaining it in the first year or two at 
camp. The incidence ol bedwetting in 
some camps is generally indicative of 
too stimulating a camp programme, or 
of a lack of .security in the children so 
aflected—in fact, one would feel they 
were not yet ready for camp. If the 
child is nervous or high-strung, it 
would be wirer for him to visit in a 
small family group, or go to the cottage 
with the family, postponing camp for 
a year or two until he is able to relax 
more easily. 

Is the ch id ready emotionally? Be¬ 
fore going away for a prolonged period, 
a child needs occasional overnight visits 
away from home, possibly with a 
friend’s family or in a household well- 
known to him. During these visits he 
is secure in knowing that he will return 
home again. Some homesickness is 
quite normal in a new camper, and will 
not last if the child has had these 
preliminary enjoyable visits, and at 
camp has an understanding counselor. 
(Need we say here that letters, like 
goodbyes, should always be cheerful and 
matter of fact, full of interest in the 
child’s doings, telling him what he 
would like to know, but never making 
such comments as “how terribly we miss 
you, darling”, or “Tatters (the dog) 
moons about all day looking for you”— 
they undo hours of patient encourage- 


Toronto, Canada^ Aprils 1953 


9 


ment by thoughtful cabin mates and 
counselors.) 

A city child, used to the night sounds 
of automobiles, jingling milk bottles or 
the clank of garbage cans, can be 
awfully startled by the whip-poor-will, 
the honking of the bullfrogs, or the hoot 
of a night owl. How about taking him 
out after dark on a couple ol occasions 
when you can point up the charm of 
moonlight, and that maybe birds do 
make a bit of noise at night—like 
Daddy snoring. 

To help the child feel secure as he 
moves into these new surroundings, see 
that he takes with him some of his 
special treasures—a few of his battered 
but beloved story books, a favourite 
game, his yo-yo. A girl might like to 
take along a cuddly pet dog or doll, 
some family snapshots, or the hair 
ribbons Grandma gave her for her 
birthday. Some links with the familiar 
are so valuable. There was the little 
girl who came to camp not well pre- 
jDared. She wept bitterly; many times 
a day she pleaded to be allowed to go 
home. Then the head counselor, in 
talking with her, di.scovercd her love of 
small animals, how she was missing her 
pets. A hamster which lived in a box 
in the counselor’s office greatly intrigued 
the child, and so she was invited to 
assist the very busy counselor by taking 
charge of the little animal’s feeding and 
airing every day. In a few days the 
homesickness faded away. And it 
wasn’t a difficult step from having a 
pet friend to having a camper friend 
or two. Many camp directors arrange 
to have a cat, kittens, a puppy or two 
about the camp. 

Is the child ready socially? It is here 
that camp makes the biggest demand 
on a child, and where, if he is ready, 
he can experience his greatest growth. 
His happiness at camp depends to a 
great extent on his ability to respond 
to adults, to co-operate with the coun¬ 


selors and with his cabin mates, to 
conform to the few' but necessary re¬ 
quirements, and to be sufficiently inde¬ 
pendent to manage his own routines 
adequately. This is still not easy lor 
a child of five or six years. To place 
him in a setting that requires all-day 
adjustments to others may be taxing 
him too much—he still needs periods of 
quiet and even solitary play. Children 
of five, six and seven should be in small 
camps, or if the camp is large, catering 
to children from this age up to 12 or 
14 years, the younger children should 
live in a separate unit or section of the 
camp with sepamte meal hours or their 
own dining hall, and every attempt 
should be made to create small play 
groups, and to have quiet surroundings 
for day-time rest and sleep at night. 

One further point to consider is the 
type of camp; his readiness, after all, 
is in terms of how he will be able to 
fit into his particular camp setting and 
meet the requirements of its pro¬ 
gramme. What camp or camps are 
available to you? If there is only one, 
is it suitable to your child’s needs and 
interests? Is it a camp specially planned 
for younger children? Has it a fairly 
relaxed programme or is it highly 
.scheduled? 

If you are satisfied that your child 
is ready for the camp you have chosen, 
that physically, emotionally and socially 
he is prepared, now is the time to 
begin this glorious adventure, one to 
which he will in all likelihood be thrilled 
to return as often as the opportunity 
afTords. Your child is ready, the camp 
is ready, and now the bus is ready— 
and as he jumps on board you can 
wave good-bye with a light heart. If 
he isn’t ready yet, at worst all he need 
do is wait a year, maybe two. Time will 
give him the experiences which will 
help him mature. Some of these you 
can arrange, as we have suggestc'd. And 
then it will be your turn to gather at 
the bus and wave him off to camp! 


10 


Canadian Camping 


Fs the Camp Meadp 

for the Child? 


Mary L. North way 

Institute of Child Study^ University of Toronto 


The bus is coming and in a few 
moments the quiet countryside will be 
teeming with a hundred excited, ex¬ 
uberant, tired or apprehensive children. 
Of course the camp is ready; the 
director has been busy for six months 
preparing it. Food supplies are in; 
tents are up; cabins repaired; water¬ 
front checked; boats repainted; coun¬ 
sellors hired; registrations filed and 
cabin lists arranged. Yes, the camp is 
ready, but is it ready for the child? 

Camps in their prospectuses offer to 
provide good things for children. Al¬ 
though the catalogues differ, in general 
they announce that they will supply 
him with better health, increased skilF, 
greater social development and fuller 
spiritual values. Some add improved 
character and a more integrated per¬ 
sonality, greater qualities of leadership 
and a deepened sense of responsibility. 
These are big promises to make and we 
may ask is the camp really ready to 
supply them? Are the stock piles up, 
and if so how exactly are these qualities 
to be conveyed to the child? How does 
one actually in the day by day of camp 
living convey fuller spiritual values, 
increased social development, new skills 
and better health to children? Even if 
we think we have them available how 
do we know that the child will absorb 
them? Is he to acquire them by con¬ 
tagion like the measles? Or is he to 
learn them by rote practice like the 
multiplication table? Frankly, I myself 
have no idea how one increases all 


these qualities, and were I a camp 
director, I would be quite hesitant 
indeed in offering to supply them. 

Psychologically, we know that such 
qualities do not exist in the abstract; 
they do not hover in the atmosphere; 
they exist only in and through actual 
living and have their being only in 
their incorporation in the daily round, 
the common task. Therefore, I would 
take samples of the ordinary programme 
and assay them to assess the degree to 
which each of these four qualities, 
health, skills, social ability, and spiritu¬ 
ality, was present. Then I would be 
able to decide whether the camp was 
truly ready for the child. 

As one sample of camp programme 
to discover whether these qualities are 
present, let us consider breakfast; first, 
because it is common and ordinary and 
usually not glamorous, and second, 
because it occurs every day, so that 
what happens should be augmented in 
importance by the sheer matter of 
repetition. 

Health —Because there are govern¬ 
ment standards, we can be fairly sure 
that the health of the child is not going 
to be harmed in any gross way. Regula¬ 
tions of cleanliness will protect him 
from germs and bacteria. The camp’s 
own dietary standards will ascertain 
that there is plenty of good food avail¬ 
able and that as bacteria have been 
banished, vitamins have been welcomed. 
So at breakfast his health is bound to 


Toronto, Canada, April, 1953 


11 



increase. Is it? Suppose he is a six 
year old and refuses to eat anything 
but toast and jam? Suppose she is 
a fourteen-year-old who “never eats 
breakfast my dear, it would spoil my 
figure.” Suppose he is an eight year old 
who is going to try his swimming test 
to please his father; he swallows the 
food but his stomach does a poor job 
of digesting it. Suppose he was at a 
midnight revel and is too tired to 
bother; or suppose he is a five year old 
sitting at an adult size table, where each 
moment as he eats his muscles endure 
an unnatural strain. Or suppose he 
reacts to the counsellor’s forcing him to 
eat by going into a temper tantrum. 
Suppose all these things and then ask 
was the camp ready with supplies of 
increased health during this one half 
hour? Was it? 

Skills —C amp directors and other 
educators are very fortunate in promis¬ 
ing that a child’s skills will increase 
while he is in their charge, because it 
is almost impossible while a child is 
growing to prevent skills developing. 
Children cannot help learning, though 
they may not always be learning what 
we would ask or expect them to. For 
the major activities, swimming, canoe¬ 
ing, nature, dramatics, camps employ 
instructors who can teach skills. For¬ 
tunately most of them have the addi¬ 
tional quality of being able to help 
children learn them. But are there any 
skills indigenous to the breakfast table? 
Let us look to see whether children are 
acquiring any skills there. Of course 
for the young child the art of being able 
to manage oneself and one’s food at 
table is a long process of learning. To 
accept and to enjoy new types of food 
is another skill. For the older child, the 
skill of the amenities of table courtesy 
according to the folkways of his cultural 
group is another ability which he only 
gradually acquires. Are these being 
increased? Or do we ever reprimand 
the four year old because he does not 
manifest adult manners? (To expect 


him to is rather like expecting him to 
do a swan dive before he can swim.) 
Do we ever thwart his small efforts at 
skill by expecting too much too soon? 
Do we understand that young children 
will spill things, mess things, muff things 
and through our understanding are we 
able to endure it and be patient? 

What about the group of twelve year 
olds in the corner; have they turned 
their group into bedlam by shouting at 
the top of their voices and sliding the 
jam jar up and down in a game of 
table hockey? Their skills are certainly 
increasing, but, they are mainly skills 
which will fit them for a drunken 
brawl rather than pleasant social inter¬ 
course. 

In short, are we ready to help our 
campers with the skills of routine living 
which are actually much more impor¬ 
tant than the skills of specialized activi¬ 
ties? Do we understand enough about 
children to know at what stage of 
development they are ready to acquire 
various skills of the routines? If we 
err in our judgment at the breakfast 
table do we err even more when it 
comes to matters of cabin neatness; care 
of possessions, cleaning up after a pic¬ 
nic, cooking a meal ? Is the camp ready 
to adjust its level of expected skills to 
the degree of abilities of the child, or 
does it impose its own requirements 
that are established on the basis of 
adult standards and desire for decorum? 

Social —Breakfasting among a hun¬ 
dred people certainly provides a social 
situation. If social qualities were con¬ 
tagious, the child would be sure to con¬ 
tract them. What is actually happening 
to their social development? Let’s look 
around. Johnny’s counsellor is a bit 
harrassed himself this morning. Actu¬ 
ally, he didn’t wake up in time to help 
the youngsters with their dressing. He’s 
a bit short, especially with Johnny, tell¬ 
ing him to eat up his porridge or he’ll 
be last again, directing him to sit up 
straight, or our table won’t get the flag 


12 


Canadian Camping 



for the best sitters. After twenty min¬ 
utes of this, Johnny breaks his quietness 

by saying, “I won’t, you b-a word 

as meaningless to him as it is repulsive 
to the counsellor. He is Sent from the 
table, and his social development to¬ 
wards adults has expanded only in the 
direction of increasing his hostility and 
distrust. 

At Table IX, conversation is more 
orderly. Peter, the boy with the glasses, 
is enjoying listening to talk about 
preparation for a canoe trip. After a 
while he stutters, “Can I take my new 
knife?” Jimmy replies, “Oh, you aren’t 
going; only us strong guys.” 

As the tables are clearing the children 
wait. Perry begins to describe a western 
he saw. It goes on—“and the guy 
comes out and shoots the other guy; 
and the other guy has a girl and she 
goes with the other guy; no, I mean the 
first guy, and the horse . . .” when the 
counsellor says, “Gan it, Perry. Why 
don’t you tell it so we can understand, 
if you have to. Now come on gang, 
who’s going into the sports meet 
today?” 

Soon breakfast is over and there is 
time for a few camp songs. Gome on 
fellows, whip it up, let’s sing. “Dear 
old Pine-Knot—all its boys are brave 
and grand—‘We love Pine-Knot, dear 
old Pine-Knot, it’s the best, best camp 
in all the land.” And in this, the 
children’s social development grows 
towards group belonging, only at the 
expense of establishing a disillusioned 
belief of group superiority. A very 
dangerous attitude indeed. 

So has social development increased 
at the breakfast table? Is the camp 
ready to guide the child’s social growth? 
Do we know what happens if we press 
children too hard socially, or must we 
wait for the psychiatrists to tell us? 
Do we understand the effects of social 
over-stimulation? Do we know what 
emphasis on competition does, not for 


the camp but for the child? Do we 
understand the psychology of adult- 
child relationships, child-child relation¬ 
ships? Are we aware of the pathology 
of the over-responsible, the over 
conforming, the over emotionally-con¬ 
trolled child ? Have we ways of 
preventing bullying, scape-goating, teas¬ 
ing? Do we think of regulations as ways 
and means of increasing orderly, serene 
social living, or as authoritarian devices 
to support our egos. Do we under- ^ 
stand that discipline and punishment 
are antithetical? Are we really ready 
to take responsibility for the child’s 
social development? 

Spiritual Values —Is the camp ready 
to increase children’s spiritual values 
during this breakfast session? Some 
camps introduce a formal period of 
music or an inspirational talk immedi¬ 
ately after the meal. Actually, this is 
the worst time of the day to be kept 
sitting, especially for young children, 
and may form the basis for the child’s 
erroneous belief that there is a con¬ 
flict between spiritual values and his 
own biological needs. This is merely 
stating that some techniques which pur¬ 
port to increase spiritual values do not 
actually do so. Perhaps the camp direc¬ 
tor himself, if he reviews the breakfast 
period, will be able to discover in what 
ways^ the session has increased the 
child’s spiritual values. Psychologically, 
we know here, as in the other areas’ 
introducing too much too soon, or too 
advanced concepts too early often serves 
to prevent growth of the actual values 
we are trying to establish. If our camp 
is ready to provide spiritual values it 
will be because we have learned how 
-to translate spiritual matters into forms 
meaningful to the level of the child— 
an extraordinarily difficult and chal¬ 
lenging task. 

So, let’s see if our camp is ready for 
the child. Let us look at our goals 
whether they are published in our 

Continued on page 32 


Toronto^ Canada^ April, 1953 


13 




im (Dmmps 

R. K. Cleverdon, M.A.Sc.^ P.Eng. 

Director, Camp Kandalore . , 

Chairman, Campsite Development Committee, 
Canadian Camping Association 


Many camp directors are considering 
installing a system of hot shower baths 
in their camps^ in view of recent recom¬ 
mendations of health authorities and 
pediatricians. One of the Minimum 
Standards of the Ontario Camping 
Association states that provision must 
be made for a hot bath or shower once 
a week for all children attending camps 
for two weeks or more. It is hoped 
that the following information may be 
of sonic use, particularly to camp direc¬ 
tors who intend to install a shower 
system in the near future as a forward 
step in raising the health standard of 
their camps. 

A hot shower system must include a 
supply of cold running water, a method 
of heating some of this water, a' storage 
tank for the heked watei*;^ Shower heads 
with pipes and OontrOh faucets, a build¬ 
ing to'^house the system,^ arid'adequate 
drainage and disposal of the' waste 
water. The buildings tod equipment 
can be very expensive in the current 
inflated building market,^’and, realizing 
this, the information in this article*‘is 
written with economy uppermost irt the 
fxiind of the author. Let us consider 
a camp of 100 children and 40 staff, 
and assume that a shower once a \Veek 
for everyone and a second shower for 
about half the camp weekly Vill be 
adequate. This will then require 30 
showers a day. By spreading the use of 
the system over the whole week in this 
manner, a relatively small installation 


will suffice. For maximum economy, 
showers must be supervised; if this is 
done, about 15 gallons of water at 100^ 
F will be required per shower. This 
quantity may be doubled by careless 
use, with a corresponding increase in 
operating costs. If fuel and installation 
costs have to be controlled to permit 
such a system being installed by a 
camp, then supervision is'essential. ' 

The building can be v.ery simple. A 
concrete floor sloping to a ^flopr drain 
is recommended. A six-.inch c.virb 
should be provided to keep the water 
from lying against the bottom edge of 
the wooden framework of the walls, 
and causing rot. Bolts should be placed 
in the concrete before it sets, and used 
to anchor the bottom plates' of the wall 
framework, which can be of the usual 
2x4 construction. Galvanized corru¬ 
gated iron sheeting can be used for the 
exterior wall covering, or alternatively, 
well-creosoted lumber sid'ng. Sash 
glazed with ribbed or frosted glass, and 
hinged on the lower edge' so that they 
bl6ck direct view into the building 
when opened inward, can be used. If 
the shower building is located in a 
secluded part of the camp, sash may be 
omitted, and the openings left open or 
covered with bronze screening. All 
interior woodwork exposed to moisture 
should be protected with creosote or 
other wood preservative. If a roof is 
desired on the building, a pitched , roof 
of standard construction is advised. 


14 


Canadian Camping 




For our mythical camp of 140 people, 
a battery of 4 shower heads in an area 
at least 4 feet by 12 feet, and a fifth 
shower in a separate stall with curtain, 
will be needed. Eight campers can use 
the main showers at one time, while the 
separate shower stall is available to 
staff members and others desiring more 
privacy. A space about 6 feet by 12 
feet is needed for changing. The four 
showers in the battery should be con¬ 
trolled by one pair of faucets, located 
outside, or at one end of, the shower 
area. If these are adjusted by the 
counselor and left alone, there is little 
danger of anyone foolishly turning off 
the cold supply and scalding someone 
using the showers. As a further pre¬ 
caution, a thermostatically-controlled 
valve can be installed on the supply line 
between the faucets and the shower 
heads, which will cut off the water 
supply if the temperature exceeds a pre¬ 
determined setting. The single shower 
which is separated from the "others will 
require individual faucets. Duck boards 
might be supplied for the shower area, 
but these must be well-constructed and 
inspected frequently, since they may 
splinter and cause foot injuries. Auth¬ 
orities question the need for a foot bath 
as a precaution against the spread of 
infection, but this should be considered. 

Assuming that hot water is available 
at 140°F, and cold water at 50°F, and 
that the shower water will be supplied 
at 100°F, it will require 56% hot and 
44% cold water to mix to this tempera¬ 
ture. For a 15 gallon shower, 8.4 gal¬ 
lons of hot water at 140°F will be 
needed, and for 30 showers a day, about 
250 gallons. The problem of heating 
and storing this water must next be 
considered. Sold fuel such as coal is 
considered to be much cheaper than 
gas or electric heating systems, on the 
basis of gallons of water heated per 
dollar spent on the fuel. There is about 
three times as much heat potentially 
ava.'lable in one dollar’s worth of hard 
:oal as there is in one dollar’s worth of 


either propane gas or electric energy 
(at average Ontario resort area prices). 
However, the efficiency of the device 
using the fuel (i.e., how much heat is 
actually put to use in heating water) 
varies greatly, as do the maintenance 
and labour costs, the first cost and other 
factors. All the factors involved must 
be considered before a choice is made. 

Let us consider a coal-burning system 
first. It will require a coal-fired jacket 
heater, bungalow heater or similar 
boiler” to heat the water, connected 
to an insulated galvanized steel tank. 
To deliver 250 gallons of water at 
140°F, we can use a 250 gallon tank 
heated by a fairly small jacket heater 
capable of raising the water from 50°F 
to 140°F in about six hours, or alterna¬ 
tively, use a smaller tank, say about 175 
gallons, heated by a larger boiler cap¬ 
able of heating the tank in about two 
hours, and reheating it in another two 
hours. The fire could be let out, or 
banked, for the rest of the day. The 
second alternative may provide a more 
reliable system, but it will cost more to 
install; the tank and heater will cost 
about $500 in this case. 

There are many advantages to a stor¬ 
age heater using liquified petroleum gas 
(also called LP or propane gas), and 
the author is inclined to favour this 
type of installation. If the camp is 
already using gas for cooking, the addi¬ 
tional gas needed for heating shower 
water may be bought for about 7 cents 
per pound. The fuel cost will be almost 
double that for coal while actually heat¬ 
ing water, but very little fuel is con¬ 
sumed at other times of the day, and 
no labour is involved in the operation 
of the storage heater. Inefficient labour 
can result in the waste of coal, but the 
thermostat on the gas-burning storage 
heater reduces the human element to" a 
minimum. For many installations, this 
may be the cheapest way to heat water. 

A typical heater will store 69 gallons. 

Continued on Page 41 


Toronto, Canada, April, 1953 


15 


Mature Education 

in Summer (Camps 

A. F. Helmsley and J. D. Roseborough 


For too many years the activity 
named Nature Study has either dropped 
out of summer camp programmes, or 
has become so insignificant that it 
might just as well have been discarded. 
Time and money are spent on canoeing, 
drama, pageants, art, handicrafts and 
other camp activities, but nature educa¬ 
tion, which deals with the natural 
environment in which the campers live 
for the summer, receives little attention. 

Before we consider the problem of 
nature education in children’s summer 
camps, we would do well to consider 
why this subject should be included in 
the camp programme. One of the main 
reasons for most activities on the pro¬ 
gramme is to allow youngsters to do the 
things which they cannot do, or cannot 
do as well at home. Action is popular, 
and so we find that swimming, games, 
canoeing and canoe trips are popular. 
On the other hand, music, art and 
dramatics, although not exactly action- 
packed, hold a very important place in 
the programme. These belong to a 
quieter sphere, but at the same time, 
they do require‘the participation of the 
campers^ Music, art and drama as 
opposed to other camp activities, belong 
to a group which we can name “cul¬ 
tural”. Nature education fits into this 
group. Certainly, youngsters ■ can learn 
about wildlife and indulge in activities 
connected with the natural environment 
far better at camp than in the city. 
Nature activity, like music, art, and 


drama, is educational and adds cultur¬ 
ally to the general knowledge of the 
individual. Gamp is an excellent place 
to awaken to the existence of our 
natural resources and the need for their 
proper management. It is a follow-up 
to the lessons taught through the year 
in conservation in the classroom. 

Consider the health of young bodies 
and minds which is nurtured at camp 
by the multitude of activities, team play 
and clean living. The wildlife of an 
area awaits the keen eye of the patient 
watcher, the energy of the hiker, and 
the skill of the stalker. All these, 
coupled with alertness and accuracy of 
observation, must certainly add to the 
health and training of children’s minds 
and bodies. 

Finally, and the most important, 
nature education should be uppermost 
in the minds of programme planners 
because it is the only way of introducing 
the young camper to the natural en¬ 
vironment in which he will live for the 
summer. We recognize that most 
campers are city-dwellers and the out- 
of-doors is a strange world to them. If 
the camper returns to the city without 
knowing that those “strange” sounds at 
night were those of a beaver; that the 
bird song most commonly heard 
through the summer was that of the 
white-throated sparrow; that the tracks 
along the beach were those of the 
raccoon; and that the “spit” found on 


16 


Canadian Camping 



the grass in the morning was made by 
the “spittle-bug’’, he has missed a great 
deal of living in the natural environ¬ 
ment. If he still possesses his fear of 
snakes, and associates the call of an 
owl with witches and goblins 
enshrouded in mystery, the camp pro¬ 
gramme planners have failed to take 
the opportunity to further the camper’s 
knowledge and understanding of the 
out-of-doors. 

Thus through a proper nature educa¬ 
tion programme in the camp,’ the 
campers gradually learn to interpret 
their new environment. They ga’n an 
appreciation of life through becoming 
familiar with the various life forms, and 
also learn to *a p p r e c i a t e their own 
bodies. If we consider the strict educa¬ 
tional value of a nature programme it 
certainly provides a broader knowledge 
and a field crammed with new interests. 

To sum up the reasons for a place 
for nature education in the camp pro¬ 
gramme we can list the following: 

1. A Nature Programme permits the 
campers to do things which can¬ 
not be accomplished at home. 

2. It is a way of giving healthy 
activity to the mind and body. 

3. It is an education in the natural 
environment of which the camper 
will be a part for the summer. 

4. It is a new field of interest for 
hobbies and a general broadening 
of the camper’s education. 

Now that we have established a 
reason for including nature education 
in the camp programme, we must next 
consider how we shall conduct the 
nature programme in camp. It would 
be well to observe some of the common 
difficulties and mistakes which are often 
encountered in most nature pro¬ 
grammes in summer camps. 

First, the term “Nature Study” is a 
poor one. It was^used, not so long ago, 
in the schools and has been discarded 


in favour of “Natural Science”. The 
term, “study”, is not attractive to 
youngsters just out of school, and 
“Natural Science” reminds them of 
school. Let the name, therefore, be 
changed to one more attractive, such 
as “Wildlife Activity”, or fust “wild¬ 
life”. 

Another difficulty has been the Wild¬ 
life Counselor, or rather the lack of one. 
Often the job is thrust upon some 
counselor who already has a job. He 
knows little or nothing of wildlife, but 
bravely stumbles through the surtimer 
with groups of indifferent campers ^ho 
rapidly become more indifferent. Like 
any other activity, Wildlife will be only 
as strong as the counselor. The first 
step, and it is not easy, is to obtain the 
services of a good counselor—one who 
is thoroughly interested in Wildlife and 
who has a personality and appearance 
attractive to young people. This brings 
us to the popular conception of a 
naturalist. It is generally thought that 
he is a queer sort who wanders slowly 
through the woods at equally queer 
hours of the morning, peers occasion¬ 
ally through binoculars at feathered 
movements in the trees, utters unintelli¬ 
gible names, and is usually seen return¬ 
ing to camp laden with twigs, flowers, 
and bottles of half-dead insects. Popu¬ 
larly he is thought not to be particularly 
jiven to anything more energeHc than 
walking slowly or opening a book. The 
fhought of his lifting a canoe, on swim¬ 
ming a mile is incompletely incongruous 
with his hobby or profession. Let it be 
said, therefore, that the choice of a 
Wildlife Counselor is an all-important 
step and may make or break the Wild¬ 
life* Programme. 

Let us assume that the Counselor has 
been chosen. He can handle a canoe, 
swim, play baseball, hold his own on 
a canoe trip, have fun, and is quite 
human. Now we must consider the 
programme which he will conduct. 

Continued on page 36 


Toronto^ Canada^ Aprils 1953 


17 



Camp operators .»» 

“Get plenty of first grade milk 
for as low as 55< a gallon!” 








With Borden’s TRUMILK you 

can supply all the good-tastings 
whole milk you need to your camp 
for as little as 55yS a gallon! 

Whole milk in handy powder 
form, TRUMILK keeps indefinitely 
without refrigeration! To use, 
just add it to water (4 to 1), mix^ 
and there’s rich, nourishing milk 
for drinking or cooking. 

TRUMILK is vacuum-packed 
(with perfect reseal to protect 
contents) in 50 lb. containers. 

HAND MIXER: available at 
cost. Mixes, stores and dispenses 
milk. In 5 and 23^ gallon sizes. 

Order TRUMILK and hand- 
mixer from your nearest distributor* 


THE BORDEN COMPANY, LIMITED. 

DRY MILK DEPARTMENT, Spadina Crescent, Toronto 4, Ontario 
THE BORDEN COMPANY, LIMITED, 407 McGill Street, Montreal, Qoe. 

KIRKLAND & ROSE McKENZIE, STEPHENSON LIMITED A. H. BRADBURY 

130 Water Street 345 Higgins Ave. * 13 North Wharf 

Vancouver, B.C. Winnipeg, Manitoba Saint John, N.B. 

T. A. MacNAB & CO. LIMITED, City Club Bldg., P.O. Box 785, St. John’s, Nfld. 


18 


Canadian Campino 





Ctim^ CounseiUng - 

0'hannvl Numbvr Onv 

for Hrrrrntional & Soriai Workrrtt 

Alan F. Klein 

School of Social Work, University of Toronto 


Camp Directors please note —because 
we believe that camp counselling is a 
channel into social and recreational 
work, you have a unique opportunity 
to encourage camp counsellors who 
show leadership and promise to go into 
the professional field. Would you watch 
for these young people and help them, 
as well as assuming some responsibility 
for channelling talented potential staff 
persons into jobs that need filling? The 
need for properly motivated and able 
workers in our social service organiza¬ 
tions is great. You need to recruit 
your staff of tomorrow for training 
today. 

(We would hope that Camp 
Directors recruiting camp counsellors 
would use some of the points in this 
article as a basis of discussion with 
potential camp counsellors. Many 
counsellors are not aware that there are 
full time jobs available in which they 
can continue to use the skills and tech¬ 
niques they have begun to learn at 
camp. And many do not realize that 
there are special training opportunities 
to equip one for such work. It might 
be a good idea to discuss this question 
at a Counsellors’ meeting—as well as 
through individual interviews. Ed.) 

You are thinking of going into some 
kind of work that deals with people. 
Somehow it appeals to you more than 
working with things or figures. You 
are not quite sure just what you will 
do. 


You know that the world today is 
in dire need of people who will devote 
their working effort toward trying to 
provide a better society and who will 
develop and use their skills to help 
people learn how to get along with one 
another. You are aware from personal 
experience that many people do not 
seem to have a desire for service. You 
wonder why because you are painfully 
conscious that this emphasis on success 
and “going places” has not made for 
personal happiness or growth. 

Expanding Opportunities 

At the same time, you have made 
some inquiries on your own and have 
learned that there are many people 
engaged in organized efforts to help 
people and that this work has ex¬ 
panded tremendously in the last few 
years. Government expenditures in the 
field exceed one billion dollars a year 
in Canada, with private agencies 
spending over twelve millions and 
because of this tremendous expansion 
in response to public need, there are 
many more jobs than there are trained 
people to fill them. You are in tune 
with this development. You believe as 
we do that it is vital that we conserve 
our human resources and provide 
opportunities for happiness here on 
earth. 

How to Start? 

How does one become engaged pro¬ 
fessionally in working with people? 

Continued on page 34 


Toronto, Canada, April, 1953 


19 


For Your Resort 
or Camp . . . 

o Prompt and 
Reliable Service 

® A Wide Range of 
Products 

Fresh, smoked arid ready-to-serve meats; Canned Meats, Fish, 
Fruits and Vegetables; Domestic Shortening; Tenderflake Lard; 
Margene; Butter, Eggs^ Cheese, Poultry; Peanut Butter, Pickles, 
Olives; Jams and Marmalade; Soap Flakes and Toilet Soap. 
Prompt attention given all orders. 

We shall be glad to discuss how we can serve you best. 
Address: Sales Department, Toronto or Peterborough. 

CANADA PACKERS LIMITED 


Please Help Protect Ontario’s Forests 

Campers are weff aware of the beauty to be 
found in Ontario's outdoors. They are also aware 
of the need for protecting that beauty. 



You can help too. Avoid the careless habits 
responsible for so many forest fires. Remember, 
forest fires benefit no one. They hinder everyone. 


ONTARIO DEPARTMENT OF LANDS AND FORESTS 



ONTARIO 


HON. WELLAND S. GEMMELL 
Minister 


F. A. MacDOUGALL 
Deputy Minister 


Canadian Camping 




Canaiiian Camping Association I%ews l/ctter 

Dear Fellow Campers: (b) What is the practical, clear-cut 


There is probably no busier time for 
our camping people than February and 
March. Certainly this is the time when 
many of our Committees are working 
to produde worthwhile Conferences and 
Meetings for interested camp people in 
every Province across the Dominion 
and it is also the time when most of us 
are vitally concerned with the arrange¬ 
ments for our own individual camps. 

We were interested recently to re¬ 
read an address that Dr. Mary North¬ 
way had presented to the Manitoba 
Camping Association in 1946, in which 
she outlined the history of Canadian 
camping and of our Association. The 
G.C.A, had in that year just completed 
the development of a working constitu¬ 
tion which was based on the premise 
that Provincial Associations would be 
the working • groups, and that the 
Canadian Camping Association would 
serve somewhat as a co-ordinating body 
to link together our Canadian fellow¬ 
ship of camp people, to represent camp¬ 
ing at the national level, etc. 

In the somewhat more than 8 years 
which have elapsed since Dr. Northway 
presented this statement, we have gone 
through a considerable process of 
development which has involved experi- 
mentipg with variotis types of organiza¬ 
tion for the C.C.A. 

This year, if the C.C.A, is really to 
make a contribution to the develop¬ 
ment of a dominion-wide fellowship of 
camp people, we must resolve two 
things: 

(a) How many people are there who 
are actively interested in partici¬ 
pating in such a fellowship. 


relationship between our 
National Association and the 
Associations in each . of our 
Provinces. 

This year we have factual information 
concerning all phases of the functioning 
of a National Office. We also have an 
analysis of the .services requested and 
rendered through our National office- 
in short, we have a concrete basis for 
making a decision as to how the C.C.A" 
can best function for the benefit ;bf 
camp people across our Dominion. It 
is sincerely hoped that if individual 
members or Provincial Associations as 
such have not yet availed themselves 
of the opportunity to make suggestions 
regarding the organization of the 
C.C.A., that they will do so in the very 
near future. 


The Camping Magazine has for 
several years now been the most tan¬ 
gible link between members of the 
C.C.A. The production of this maga¬ 
zine has been largely the responsibility 
of Miss Mary Edgar. She has now 
asked that we appoint a new Editor and 
editorial board to arrange the publica¬ 
tion of our magazine, and it^ is with 
sincere regrets and deep appreciation 
for the things which she has done, that 
our Executive now concerns itself with 
the appointment of a new Editor and 
editorial committee. We trust- that 
those who are interested in this area of 
our work will not hesitate to write 
indicating their interest, and volunteer¬ 
ing their services. 

W.E. (Ted) YARD, 

/> 

President. 


Toronto^ Canada, April, 1953 


21 



NOTES from the 
Camping Associations 

B. G. CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

During the past year the turnout at 
the regular general meetings was very 
disappointing . . despite the fact that 
we had some very interesting and 
informative evenings. 

Your Executive has discussed this 
problem and has come up with the 
following suggestion for the 1953-54 
programme: Following the proposed 
Spring Gamp Training Course, study 
groups will be set up to investigate, 
study and report on the following 
aspects of camping — Administration, 
Counsellor Train:ng, Programme, 
Health and Sanitation, Waterfront, 
Woodsmanship, Music and Dramatics, 
Nature Lore, Devotions, and other 
topics that may be requested. Members 
will be asked to join the study group 
of their interest, which will meet at 
regular intervals in private homes and 
they will give a summary of their find¬ 
ings to date at a general meeting to be 
held possibly every three months. At 
the end of the year, these reports would 
be compiled into a Camp Program 
Resource Book, to be distributed to the 
membership. 

The 1953 Camping Week has been 
tentatively set for April 12th to April 
18th. During this week it is proposed 
to promote camping throughout British 
Columbia, through the media of radio, 
press, films, store windows, outdoor 
signs and talks to group meetings. 

The end of Camping Week, Friday 
evening to Sunday evening, has been 
set aside for the proposed Gamp 
Training Course. It is hoped that this 
year we will be able to have the course 
in a close-to-the-city camp and have a 
more practical type of programme, 
keeping in mind also the many camp¬ 
ing problems that will need discussing. 
CHARLES E. ROCHE, 

President. 


ONTARIO CAMPING 
ASSOCIATION 

The annual business meeting was 
held on February 27th. Forty-five mem¬ 
bers attended. 

The highlight of the evening was 
the discussion of proposed standards lor 
organized children’s camps in Ontario. 
An oudine of these standards was pre¬ 
sented by Mr. Keith Gleverdon. The 
concensus of opinion was that the pro¬ 
posed set of standards is a starting point 
and that the association should con¬ 
tinue to work progressively without 
immediate accreditation for camps at 
the present time. 


AMERICAN CAMPING 
ASSOCIATION 

The 1954 '.\mcrican Camping Asso¬ 
ciation National Convention will be 
held at the Statler Hotel, New York 
City, February 2nd to 6th. The general 
chairman is Mr. Allen Cramer, who 
has camped for thirty years as camper, 
counselor and director of both organi¬ 
zational and private camps. 

The program is developing under the 
direction of the chairmen, who bring 
an excellent background of experience 
to this committee. The program will be 
full of challenge and of interest to camp 
directors, counsellors and educators, 
both of long experience and those with 
a relatively new interest in camping. 
The Exhibits Committee Chairman’s 
report brings smiles to the faces of the 
finance committee, for more than half 
the commercial exhibits have already 
been sold. 



22 


Canadian Camping 



^hmt is W&Mir (iPpimion? 


At the Ontario Camping Association* 
Conference Dr. W. E. Blatz of the 
Institute of Child Study stated: 

If I were to start a camp)— 

I would have no campers under 
seven. Young children are far better 
off with their parents. 

Activities would center in the oppor¬ 
tunities which the terrain provides: 
exploring, hiking, swimming, boating. 
Activities which are typically of the 
city, such as baseball, have no place 
in a summer camp. 

I would not impose Indian rituals on 
the children. If they want to play 
Indians that’s alright’; but simply 
because the camp director wants to 
a play Indians is no reason for making 
the children conform to the pattern. 
It prevents them developing their 
own imaginative play. 

—I would give the campers plenty of 
• time to sit anff think. They should 
not be forced to join in group activi¬ 
ties all the time. Meditation is a lost 
art for most adults; perhaps it can 
be restored in the coming generation 
of children. 

Sex must be taken into account as 
an important factor in the developing 
adolescent. Therefore my camp 
would be co-educational, with the 
boys and girls sharing many interests. 
Dramatics and dancing especially, 
would be included. 

—I would allow competition in games 
when the game depends on it. You 
can’t play checkers with yourself. 
But I would carry forward no scores 
from game to game nor give any 
prizes. 

My campers would wear no uniforms, 
nor would any badges, gadgets or 


insignia be given for any achieve¬ 
ment. The child would never be" 
made to feel that he has completed 
anything. He is always in a process 
of going on. 


MEETING THE EMOTIONAL 
NEEDS OF CAMPERS 

Dr. Taylor Statten said: 

—All children are not ready for camp, 
nor can they gain anything from the 
experience at the exact time when 
adults think they are. 

For children who are camp-minded, 
camp can be the most valuable island 
in their lives. But the break from 
home to camp may be too severe. 
Sending the child to camp for a short 
time the first year and lengthening 
the stay may be the answer. 

Children unready to join in camp are 
the bedwetter, the overweight child, 
the one with a nervous twitch or 
physical deformity. They are apt to 
be sensitive and to seclude themselves 
unless their counsellor and director is 
extremely understanding. 

—Parents make superhuman demands 
on counselors. A father “wants his 
boy to become a man in four weeks 
of camp.” The parent rarely asks, 
“Is it possible?” 

It is unwise to set up an ideal camper 
and expect all children to be like 
him. Children are different. 

—A programme must be based on 
children’s needs, not on adult 
standards. 

Hate and hostility are hard to accept 
but are feelings most in need of 
expression. 


TorontOy Canada^ Aprils 1953 


23 



You Might E,ike to Muom: 


About Camp Tonekela 

In a brief report c3n his recent trip to 
India, Prof. Charles Hendry revealed 
that it was twenty-eight years ago that 
he took over Mr, Wally Forgie’s work 
so that he could go to Gamp Tonekela 
in India. “One travels hundreds of 
years as well as hundreds of miles to 
visit this country,” he said. “People 
live a life of camping all over the 
country. We don*t have to teach camp¬ 
ing to these people. They know it as a 
personal experience. Travellers carry 
their own sleeping bags, sleep outdoors, 
but withal develop a serenity of spirit, 
dignity of posture and capacity for 
privacy that’s remarkable to see. 

“There’s valid need for Tonekela in 
India. It is set in a famine area where 


people have experienced seven years of 
want. In most cases, the only meal in 
the day that the people in that -atrea 
get is supplied by that camp.” ' 

Professor Hendry described the camp 
site, the magnificent, new, swimjning 
pool; told of the deep respect in which 
Mr. Forgie is held by the people of that 
country. . ' ^ 

For any camp director who would 
like it, he has written a’ report oh* his 
trip. As well, he has a supply of photo¬ 
graphs suitable for camp notice boards. 
These are available to anyone who 
wants them. 

About Indian Costumes 

Mrs. Gisela Commanda tells us that 
she has a limited number of men’s and 


G.P.L. HEAVY DUTY Melmac TABLEWARE 



ATTENTION CAMP DIRECTORS 


This Tableware is produced to specifications set by The Canadian 
Government. Save up to 90% on* replacements of dishes. 
Write for sample and full particulars to: 

GENERAL PLASTICS LIMITED 

150 Wellington St. W., Toronto - 1117 St. Catherine St. W., Montreal 


24 


Canadian Camping 







women’s Indian costumes of buckskin, 
cloth and velvet, ornamented with 
beadwork. For Hire. Also war bonnets, 
medicine man outfits, dancers’ feather 
bustle sets, drums and other Indian 
equipment; some suitable for special 
occasions and others of less value which 
would be just right for Indian program 
in CAMP. 

For further information phone Mrs. 
Gisela Commanda, MElrose 1029 or 
write 129 Jameson Avenue, Toronto 3. 

About Visual Aids 

A brand new development in the 
field of campcraft training devices 
which makes it possible for campers 
to use visual aids in the study of camp 
skills in the out-of-doors, has been 
announced by the Visual Aids Service 
of the Girl Scouts of the U.S.A. 

For the first time, flip charts, which 
can be used in areas in which electri¬ 
cally operated projection equipment is 
impractical, are now available for both 
Scout and non-Scout groups. Three 
charts dealing with essential campcraft 
skills suitable for leader training or for 
use with small groups of young campers, 
have been produced. Illustrated with 
detailed photographs and with large, 
easy to read type, the charts are 
mounted on spiral bindings with heavy 
board covers and back easel. Overall 
size is 12-15 inches and each set con¬ 
sists of about three dozen sheets cover¬ 
ing a step-by-step description of the 
various operations. 

Titles are “Lashing,” “Fire Building” 
and “Primitive Camp Sanitation.” 
“Lashing” consists of 36 sheets and 
covers square, diagonal, round and con¬ 
tinuous lashing, including basic instruc¬ 
tion in necessary knots. “Fire Building”, 
with 37 photographs and drawings, 
covers steps in building basic tepee and 
criss-cross fires and use of hunter’s 
trench, reflector and beanhole fires. 
Fire prevention instruction is also given. 

“Primitive Camp Sanitation” furn¬ 
ishes 37 photographs and drawings 


covering caches of various types, several 
kinds of latrines, garbage disposal and 
dish washing, along with instructions 
for complete disposal of debris and good 
manners with regard to the camp site. 

The charts are recommended for use 
with groups of up to 15 persons and 
will be particularly helpful in cases 
where large groups are sub-divided for 
specialized training. (Price is $6.00 for 
each chart.) They can be ordered only 
through the Girl Scout Visual Aids 
Service, 155 East 44th Street, New York 
17, New York. 

About Movie Night, Maybe? 

If enquirers aren’t pounding madly 
on OCA’s office door, the telephone’s 
dancing a jig on the window-sill or the 
mail bag is filled to overflowing . . . 
all with the same plea: “Can you 
tell me where I can get 61ms to show 
to campers?” “Who has 61ms on out¬ 
door life?” “Where do I rent or borrow' 
Canadian nature 61ms?” 

If that’s your plight, take comfort 
in the following list we found recently 
in the 61ing cabinet: 

The Film Societies of your Public 
Library. 

National Film Board of Canada, 4 
University Avenue, Toronto. 

National Film Society, 172 Welling¬ 
ton Street, Ottawa, Ontario. 

Royal Ontario Museum. 

Ontario Division, Red Cross Society. 

Boy Scouts Association, 31 Dundas 
Street East, Toronto. 

“Canadian are Campers”, distributed 
by University Extension Department, 
University of Toronto. 

“Summer is for Kids”—Y.M.C.A. 
(One copy belongs to Y.M.C.A. Camp 
Pinecrest, Toronto.) 

Commercial 6rms have a remarkable 
array ol 61ms for public use, on request: 

Bell Telephone Company 

Imperial Oil Company 

Ontario Hydro Commission 

Aluminum Company of Canada 

Massey-Harris Company 


Toronto, Canada, April, 1953 


25 


Booh Reviews 

WOOpSMOKE by Ellsworth Jaegar. 

Toronto^ MacMillan Co.^ pp. 228, 
,$3.35. 

Have you ever wanted to call an 
alligator?- Perhaps not in Canada-^ut 
you may want to call a muskrat or a 
fox, a moose or a goose. ^^In his latest 
book ‘‘Woodsmoke”, Ellsworth jaegar 
tells how to attract animals, and how 
to make use of natural resources when 
living in the out-of-doors. On reading 
this book campers may find renewed 
desire to try living comfortably in the 
woods with a minimum of city made 
equipment. He has a chapter on fishing 
and an intriguing one Oh camping 
tricks. 'He also gives instructions for 
building shelters, felling trees, using 
foods which grow in the woods, and 
preserving foods. More than half of 
the book is made up of illustrations 


which arc excellent. Everyone who is 
interested in ‘‘camping out” should 
read this book. 

MAKE IT YOURSELF! by Bernice 
Wells Carlson, Abingdon-Cokesbury 
- Press. Distributed by G. R. Welch 
Co., Ltd., 1149 King Street West, 
Toronto. $1.75, paper; $2.5(>, cloth. 

A handy book to have on the summer 
bookshelf for the hundred-and-one 
things made from nature materials, 
cork, fabrics, boxes, cardboard, various 
kinds of paper. Instructions are simple 
to follow, can be done individually or 
in gr'oups and does not require an 
artist 6t an expert crafts person as a 
guide. Before getting d6\vn to actual 
instructions, the author has‘ written a 
chapter giving advice* on how and 
where to work, what materials to save 
and use, ^ hoW to store them, and how 
to make best use of the book. 


FBodcrait SPECIALIZED FOODS can help you serve 
nourishing# flavourful meals with maximum efficiency and minimum 
cost. 

QUALITY - - the favourite of famous chefs. 

NUTRITION - used ^ in major hospitals and other institutions 
throughout Canada. 

ECONOMY - simple preparation, minimum of kitchen staff; 
savings up to 18% reported. 


FOODCRAFT GUARANTEED PRODUCTS 
for industrial and institutional use exclusively 


Cream Pudding,Mix 
Pie Fillings 
Meringue Powder 
Jelly Powder 
Beverage Syrups 


Soup Bases 
Gravy Base 
Soup Vegetables 
Salad Dressing 
Cake Mixes 


Jam and Marmalade 
Sundae Toppings 
Table Syrup 
Fruit Crystals 
Flavours 


SEND FOR INFORMATION AND SAMPLES 
Branches Across Canada 

Foodcraft Laboratories Limited 

60 DUCHESS STREET 220 MILTON STREET 

TORONTO 2. ONT. MONTREAL, P.Q 


26 


Canadun Camping 




POEMS FOR CHILDREN by Eleanor 

Farjeon. Longmans, Green & Co. 
$3.75. 

One of the loveliest books for the 
camp library, one with an appeal to 
all ages, is Eleanor Farjeon’s latest col¬ 
lection of poems. Herein are all of her 
verses for children . . . two hundred 
and seventy-two of them ... in one 
volume. There are country rhymes and 
city ditties, verses about playtime and 
schoolroom, more about fairyland and 
animals, home and faraway lands, some 
for Christmas, some for other times of 
the year. Although this versatile writer 
has been writing for children all her 
life, she has an exquisite appeal to older 
girls and boys as well as adults. 


SUMMER MAGIC, by Kenneth and 
Susan Webb; published by Associa¬ 
tion Press, 1953; pp. 159; price $3.00. 
Obtainable in Canada from the G. R. 
Welch Co. Ltd., 1149 King Street 
West, Toronto. 

The rich experiences of Kenneth and 
Susan Webb as both parents and camp 
directors, serve as a solid background 
for this recent publication. Their inter¬ 
pretation of camping is an enriching 
experience for children through the 
discipline of group living and the 
enjoyment offered from the many camp 
activities. The book also gives an 
appraisal of the values to be gained 
from a camping experience. 

SUMMER MAGIC is an excellent 
guide for parents contemplating camp 
for their child or children; in fact, it 
should “sell” camping to parents, if 
this is necessary. It is equally as good 
a guide for camp directors and 
counselors, with stress on the import¬ 
ance of work for a growing child and 
the view of educating children for 
democratic citizenship — through the 
camp experience. 


This inexpensive, but highly informa¬ 
tive book, should certainly have a place 
on one of your camp library shelves! 

HIKING IN TOWN OR COUNTRY 
by Catherine C. Reiley; published by 
the Girl Scouts of the U.S.A., 155 
East 44th Street, New York 17, N.Y., 
1952; pp. 47; price 30 cents. 

This amazing little book gives its 
reader a new “interest” in hiking, with 
helpful advice on what equipment and 
food is necessary, etc., how to arouse 
interest and make a hike an “adven¬ 
ture”, so that the participants will want 
to go again (not necessarily to the same 
place). Because a hike is “organized”, 
the spirit of “adventure and fun” need 
not be lost. 

The information contained in this 
inexpensive book gives one the key to 
the secret of “successful hiking”. This 
is a good publication for the camp 
library and an interesting guide for all 
counselors taking campers on an 
“adventure”! 

SQUARE DANCES OF TODAY by 
Richard Kraus. A. S. Barnes & Com¬ 
pany. Copp Clark Co., Ltd., $4.00. 

With Square Dancing taking an im¬ 
portant place in the Camp programme, 
it behooves directors to keep at hand 
a good book on the subject. This one 
contains not only fifty-five dances, old 
and new, gay illustrations and specially 
arranged music, but also detailed in¬ 
formation on how to teach squares and 
to call them, organize and conduct the 
whole programme. 

The author has analyzed and ex¬ 
plained the calling techniques as well 
as some of the problems which might 
be encountered; this through experience 
gained as instructor in charge of the 
entire dance programme at Teachers 
College, Columbia University. 


Toronto, Canada, April, 1953 


27 


THE HANDBOOK OF. 
SKITS AND STUNTS v 

by 

Helefi and Larry Eisenberg 

Here are more than 400 new and 
favorite skits and stunts for all parties, 
formal and informal programs; and 
lighthearted social occasions l’ . . for.' 
either sex and both sexes, and all who 
are young in heart. 

You can stage these skits and stunts 
indoors ^or outdoors, with few or no 
props. Price $3,75 

ADVENTURE IN 
ARTIFICIAL RESPIRATION 

by 

Peter V. Karpovich 

Here for the .first time is the com¬ 
plete story of the evolution of artificial 
respiration and resucitation . . . based 
upon research commissioned by the 
U.S. Army. Price $9.00 

Order from your focal hooksforof or 

G. R. WELCH CO. LIMITED 

1149 King St. W. Toronto, Ont. 



Best 


for Cooking and 

Volume Wafer Heating 

Bring City Conveniences 
to the work of Camp Operation 


Special Clearance: 

Heavy Duty Ranges 
Hot Tops * Fry Jops 
$100.00 under list 

Available for Immediate Shipment 


Superior Propane Limited 

Maple, Ontario 
EM. 6-4634 

Head Office: 26 St. Clair Ave. E. 
Toronto RAndolph 2137 


CAMP REFERENCE AND BUYING 
GUIDE—1953 edition, * an official 
publication of the American Camp- 
ing' Association, compiled and edited 
by' Galloway Publishing- Co., 705 
Park Ave., Plainfield, N.J. 160 pp. 
$1.00 in U.S.A .3 $1.50 elsewhere. 

This is the Sixth annual edition of 
this excellent camp reference book. It 
contains ‘^a veritable gold mine of in¬ 
formation for ^1 people interested in^ 
or connected, with, camp operation.’* 
There is a vast amount of information, 
skillfully condense^, which makes it a 
most useful resource book for the busy 
Director. Ther^ are articles on Admin¬ 
istration, Site Development, Food and 
Menu Planning, Health and Safety, 
Maintenance, Waterfront, Wood Craft, 
Handicrafts, Trips and lists of camping 
trip equipment, Sports and Games, 
Leadership, and many other pertinent 
subjects. 

There are practical illustrations for 
Boat Mooring Methods, Dock Layouts, 
Canoe Storage Racks, an Archery 
Range and Dimensions for Field Games 
and Courts. You will find also a most 
comprehensive, list of “Books you’ll want 
to know about” on all phases of camp 
operation. 

CAMPING AND OUTDOOR LIFE 
—the magazine of the Camping Club 
of Great Britain and,* Ireland has 
been received by the editor of “Can¬ 
adian Camping.” 

The forty pages of the magazine are 
crammed with interesting information 
and illustrations. The first page editor¬ 
ial welcomes His Royal Highness, The 
Duke of Edinburgh, as the new royal 
Patron of the Camping Club. 

^ The Editor writes: “Our new Patron, 
young and active, shows great enthusi¬ 
asm for all the many things he ‘takes 
on’. Great good will come of his 
interest and we feel his Patronage will 
help* the Camping Club in its worthy 
aim: ' , 

‘to encourage and* help ail, especially 
Continued on page 4Z 

Canadian Camping 




Don’t forgetj too, that although the 
following books have been in the OCA 
Library for a few years, they are in 
constant use, and could be part of 
your library shelf for the use of campers 
as well as. counsellors: 


NATURE 

Title 

Native Trees of Canada 
Field Guide to the Birds ($3.50) 
Introducing the Insect ($5.00) 
Tracks & Trailcraft ($4.75) 
Children’s Book of Trees 
Audubon’s American Birds ($1.30) 
Adventuring in Nature (.70) 



Publisher 


Author 

Dept, of Mines & Resources 
National Audubon Society Houghton Mifflin Co. 
F. A. Urquhart Clarke, Irwin Co. Ltd. 


Ellsworth Jaegar 
Leonard Knott 

Betty Price 


MacMillan Co. 
Editorial Associates 
Clarke, Irwin Co. 
Association Press 


WOODCRAFT 
Woodcraft ($4.00) 

Camping & Woodcraft ($3.50) 

Jr. Book of Camping & Woodcraft 
The Book for Junior Woodsmen 
Campcraft A. B. G.’s ($1.00) 
Wildwood Wisdom ($2.95) 

Let’s Go Camping ($1.50) 
Jack-Knife Cookery 
How to Live in the Woods ($3.25) 
Your Own Book of Campcraft (^.25) 
Cooking Out of Doors ($1.15) 


Bernard Mason 
Horace Kephart 
Barnard Mason 
Barnard Mason 
Catherine Hammett 
Ellsworth Jaeger 
Raymond Peters 
James Wilder 
Homer Halstead 
Catherine Hammett 


Barnes Co. 

MacMillan Co. 

Barnes Co. 

Barnes Co. 

Girl Scouts 
MacMillan Co. 

Brethren Publshg. House 
Dutton Co. 

McLelland & Stewart 
Jr. Pocket Book (Welch) 
Girl Scouts of America 



the 

famous 

ACKROYD 

DINGHIES 

are built exclusively 
by the builders of 

TAYLOR 

CRAFT 

Canada's Leading 
CRUISERS 
and 

SAILBOATS 


J. J. TAYLOR & SONS LIMITED 


on the Western Channel 


TORONTO 


Toronto, Canada, 'April, 1953 


29 



Weather Lot^e 


Our everyday conversation and reading matter is full of a great deal of 
curious lore about the weather. Below are some of the more familiar beliefs, 
some of them very old. As a result of camp discussion or debate try to decide 
how much truth there is in the statements and whether or not there ia a good 
scientific basis for such a belief. 

L When dew is on the grass. 

Rain will never come to pass. 

2. A “wet** moon is followed by rain. 

3. The farther the sight, the nearer the rain. 

4. If the froundhog sees his shadow on February 2 there will be six weeks 
more of bad weather. 

5. When eager bites the thirsty flea. 

Clouds and rain you sure shall see. 

6. The higher the clouds, the finer the weather. 

7. A rainbow in the morning, 

Sailors take warning; 

A rainbow at night 
Is the sailor’s delight. 

8. If squirrels are seen gathering nuts more actively than usual it will be 
a hard winter. 

9. When the wind is in the east. 

It’s good for neither man nor beast. 

10. If it rains before seven it will clear before eleven. 

11. Sowe peason and beans in the wane of the Moone; 

Who soweth them sooner, he soweth too soone. 

From Bulletin “What you can do about the weather.” Meteorological Divi- 
sion, Dept, of Transport. This and other pamphlets are available from 315 
Bloor St. W., Toronto. 


TELL YOUR CAMP'S STORY TO . . . 

REDBOOK’S CAMP CONSCIOUS FAMILIES IN 1953 

REDBOOK'S 51st year of publication—School and Camp Department's 35th year 
of service. 

REDBOOK'S four million readers, in nearly two million American and Canadian 
families, are not only camp minded but also have the money to carry out their 
plans for their children. * 

And REDBOOK'S Educational Advisory Service is recognized as serving a large 
number of parents each year and for its reputation for sound, reliable advice In 
bringing together camp directors and camp parents. 

Your camp advertising in REDBOOK will put you in contact with not just camp 
prospects but Excellent Camp Prospects. 

REDBOOK MAGAZINE 

Ethel F. Bebb, Director 230 Park Avenue 

School and Camp Department New York 17, N.Y. 


3C 


Canadian Camping 






The Counselor 


i W nnt for 3tff Son 

By Walter MacPeek 


For 25 years Fve been a staff mem¬ 
ber or director of various boys’ camps. 
I’ve seen a lot of counselors and leaders 
during those years. Most of them have 
been pretty fine people. 

But now before long my own boy will 
be going to a summer camp. He’s our 
only son—our single contribution to the 
future of the world. Naturally, we’re 
pretty anxious that his camp experience 
be a good one. 

What are the qualifications that we’d 
like in the young men who are to be 
his camp leaders as they become so 
important a part of his world? 

First, Fd hope that this camp staff 
member would take his job seriously—• 
would be in earnest. I’d hope that he’d 
recognize ' the high calling of being a 
leader in a camp. I’d hope that he 
wouldn’t be a mere popularity seeker 
■—an “anything goes” sort of person. 

I’d hope that he’d be clean in langu¬ 
age and thought. Of course we sort of 
expect that unless he has a pretty 
wholesome and positive outlook he just 
wouldn’t be a leader in camp. 

Third, I’d hope that this young man 
would have a good deal of boyish en¬ 
thusiasm, and yet with it all have pretty 


much the standards and values of a 
grown man.. I’d like him to know how 
to work hard and play hard — at the 
proper times. 

Then I’d hope that he would not be 
a bully — nor a scold. I’d hope that 
the influencing of the development and 
growth of my boy’s personality would 
be a great joy and challenge. * 5 

I’d hope that this leader would be 
a quiet, modest person — not a loud¬ 
mouthed, noisy, unsure-of-himself sort. 

Yes, I want quite a bit from this 
camp leader. May I add one more to 
this already demanding array of attri¬ 
butes. May this Prince among people 
lead my son into new wholesome curi¬ 
osities and explorations. I’d hope he 
would not try to lecture or use other 
classroom methods. My son has that 
sort of experience all year ’round. In 
camp I hope his leader will help to 
stimulate his curiosity — his eagerness 
to explore and to learn — to be a 
fellow discoverer with him. 

Yes, those are some of the values I 
want for my boy more than anything 
else in the world. Am I expecting too 
much? 

—From Camping Magazine 



Toronto, Canada, April, 1953 


31 













It Anybody asked You^ 
would You know ... 

. . . that Canada has thirty-two uni¬ 
versities, two of them French-speaking, 
three bilingual and the remainder 
English-speaking. They range from 
small colleges with about 200 students 
to large institutions with over 10,000 
students. Most degrees require at least 
four years of daytime study. 


liJe ale 

HEADQUARTERS 

for 

Tents Flags 

Dunnage Bags 
Pack Sacks 
Sleeping Bags 
Tarpaulins 

Everything in Canvas 

Complete Stock Marine 
Hardware 

JOHN LECKIE 

LIMITED TORONTO 

Halifax - Quebec - Montreal 
Winnipeg 

Vancouver—Western Leckie 
Limited 


. . . that Boy Scouts in Ontario are 
among the most conservation-minded 
residents of the province, according to 
provincial Lands and Forests Depart¬ 
ment officials. They are particularly 
interested in the reclamation of waste¬ 
lands by reforestation. 

A number of Boy Scout troops in 
Ontario actually possess their own 
woodlots. Some of these woodlot areas 
were part of the camp sites at purchase, 
but others were bought separately. For 
instance, the Scouts of the Toronto 
Metropolitan Area own a large tract 
on Drag Lake in Haliburton County. 
Another Eastern Ontario troop has 
already made money from the sale of 
Christmas trees^ poles and fuel har¬ 
vested from the troop’s woodlot in 
thinning and improvement operations. 



I GIVE MY 

PLEDGE AS A CANADIAN 
TO SAVE AND FAITHFULLY TO 
DEFEND FROM WASTE THE 
NATURAL RESOURCES OF 
MY COUNTRY - ITS SOU 
AND MINERALS, ITS 
FORESTS. WATERS 
AND WILDLIFE 




32 


Canadian Camping 

















BOAT ACCESSORIES 

for every fype of 
Water Craft 

A complete line of equipment for every marine need carried in 

our showrooms — 

SAILS - HARDWARE - ROPE - CANVAS - PAINTS - VARNISHES 

TOM TAYLOR LIMITED 

The Best in Quality and Service 

10^ Pf’ont Street East EMpire 3-8761 Toronto, Ontario 

Continued from page 13 
prospectus or not; then let us take other 
samples of camp life in the same way 
as we have already done for breakfast. 

Then let us see to what extent each of 
these goals is actually present in our 
sample periods. If our goals are good 
and if we find them to be present in 
at least some of our samples, that is 
fine; if our samples do not reveal them 
we may need either to change our camp 
practices or to revise our goals to make 
them more realistic. To make them 
realistic we must know what is possible 


and what is not for children to achieve. 
To attain such knowledge the intuitive 
understanding of camp directors must 
be supplemented with factual informa¬ 
tion derived from the human sciences. 
If we know' child psychology and child 
sociology, we will substitute the possible 
for the impossible and set our goals in 
terms of children’s needs rather than 
cultural standards. In this way we can 
make camp truly ready for the child 
and we can wait to greet the campers 
from the bus with confidence and 
serenity. 


GUMPERT HAS EVERYTHING 


tin* 

, Drinkt 

ac*. «"«» 
ghetti Sooce 

,p. (liquid and 0.hydra..d) 
Mixes 


FOR THE FINEST IN FOODS 


GUMPERT 


HAS EVERYTHING 


S. GUMPERT CO. OF CANADA, LTD. 

31 BROCK AVE., TORONTO ME. 5758 


SPECIALISTS 

in 

Camp Medical Supplies 

and 

First Aid Kits 


A convenient Special Pre-Writlen 
Order Form for requisitioning your 
camp medical supplies is FREE on 
request. 


Write or Phone . . . 



Ingram & Bell 

LIMITED 

TORONTO 


Montreal - Winnipeg 
Calgary - Vancouver 


'orojito, Canada^ Aprils 1953 


33 










You Need . . . 

SOAPS - MOPS 

WAXES - BROOMS 
CLEANERS - BRUSHES 

DEODORANTS - BUCKETS 

DISINFECTANT - WRINGERS 

DISHWASHING COMPOUNDS 
PAPER GOODS OF ALL KINDS 


Protect Your Campers 


Call US for your complete line of 
Sanitary Products, Disinfectants, 
Deodorants, Insecticides, and a 
complete line of Paper Goods. 

Kert Manufacturing 

COMPANY LIMITED 

EM. 3-6277 230 KING ST. EAST 

TORONTO 


We Manufacture 
All Kinds of 

MATTRESSES 

o 

SUITABLE FOR 
CAMPS 

O 

Spring filled 
Felf 
Etc. 

• 

WINDSOR MATTRESS 
& EQUIPMENT CO. LTD. 
673 CARON AVENUE 
WINDSOR, ONTARIO 


Continued from page 19 

You do it in part by educational prep> 
aration. For example, you select courses 
in your university training that have to 
do with people. You study sociology, 
psychology, political science, economics, 
and anthropology. After university you 
may want to get specialized training in. 
a school of social work and obtain the 
academic and practical training neces¬ 
sary in order to become a professional 
and accredited worker. 

But there is something you can do 
now that will benefit you beyond all 
measure in preparation for a career. 
Camp Counselling is channel number 
one to any job of working with people. 
Human relations skills are not learned 
from books. They are learned by doing. 
The role of the camp counsellor rests 
upon the skill of leadership more than 
upon any of the recreation or activity 
skills. The camp counsellor is a begin¬ 
ning worker in human relations. 

Training Can Be Fun 

It does not matter greatly what facili¬ 
ties a camp may have, because its pro¬ 
gramme depends upon its staff in the 
last analysis. During pre-camp training 
period and during the course of the 
camp season, the staff members have 
the opportunity to develop those skills, 
to test and experiment with group 
methods under good supervision and to 
gain personal maturity in the process* 
This is the training ground for the 
workers of the future. And besides, it 
is fun. 

Perhaps you do not wish to be a 
professional worker. If you intend to 
go into any job that is based upon 
understanding people, what we are 
saying here applies to you. The list is 
endless, but surely includes personnel 
work, merchandising, teaching, nursing, 
reception duties and almost any place 
where you meet the public, and if your 


3:4 


Canadian Camping 





goal is to be a h'ousewife and mother, 
then working with youngsters in a camp 
setting is top notch training for the job. 
And if you hope to be an active and 
alert citizen in your community, or per¬ 
haps a board member or volunteer, now 
is the time to learn the fundamentals 
of how to be an effective leader. 

Perhaps you do hope to become a 
professional worker in a community 
service or recreation center or a '‘Y”, 
and you will go on to a Master’s degree 
in social work. Camp would still be 
useful to you. 

Pegs of Experience 

The curriculum in a school of social 
work is built upon the idea that the 
students who come to it have had some 
life experience with people. It supposes 
that its applicants have reasonable 
maturity and that they have tested 
their motivations and personal attri¬ 


butes in some way before they come to 
the school. Because of these supposi¬ 
tions, the course content can be given 
on a graduate level and the student can 
accept the academic concepts and hang 
them on “pegs of experience”, which 
make them useful and meaningful. She 
knows what is beitig discussed from a 
practical and personal exposure to 
people. As a result,, she learns faster, 
better, and with deeper understanding, 
and comes out of the school, more often 
than not, a better worker because of 
her camp experience. 

Channel Number One 
Gamp counselling is Channel Num¬ 
ber One to working with people. Take 
a camp ng job this summer and in 
add tion to the service you render to 
others, you will prepare yourself for 
the kind of work you want to do, if 
you want to work with people. 


CUT 

BREAKAGE 

COSTS 






rrri=> Qt.ri More and more dining establishmentfi 

the Wide range 

1 ® enhance table settings, but the durability of Melmac 
reduces breakage as much as 90%. What's more, its lightness aS 
ft wilf substantially reduce handling and other labour co^fs 

You^ll iS7 Styleware-molded of Melmac and 

to StyTeware establishment operators and 

Featured by the leading jobbers from coast to coast. 



703 MOOR ST. W. TORONTO 



YOUR SUPPLY HOUSE 
FOR THE FOLLOWING 

• Chairs 
• Tables 
• Mattresses 
• Springs 
• Blankets 
• Sheets 
• Crockery 
• Glassware 
• Silverware 
• Kitchenware 

CASSIDY'S LTD. 

HOTEL DIVISION 

20-22 Front Street West Toronto 
Phone EM. 6-5B0I 


INDIAN CRAFT 



WRITE FOR FREE CATALOG 

o 

SUPPLIES FOR ALL 
INDIAN CRAFTS, KITS, BEADS, 
FEATHERS, ETC. 

Grey Owl Indian Craft Co. 
1569 Mos^rand Ave. 
Brooklyn 26, N.Y. 

Dept. CC-1 


Continued from page 17 
Usually campers are given a choice 
regarding their interest groups. Some 
choose dramatics, some music, some 
handicrafts, and few wildlife. Thej 
latter is often handicapped by the lack; 
of action when compared with other 
activities. The way out, of course, is 
to make it compulsory, like swimming, 
and canoeing. Let everyone participate. 
The daily rambles or hikes with small 
groups, each group being treated twice 
a week, if possible, could be as short as 
one-half hour. Action is what campers 
like and the counselor should not spend 
too much time in one place to discuss 
a tree or a plant. Keep moving! It is 
better to leave the youngsters wanting 
more than going on to great lengths 
only to bore them. 

It has been noticed in camps that 
although dramatics, art, and handicrafts 
have, a special room or cabin, wildlife 
usually has nothing or, at best, a 
“Nature Lore Board” decorated (?) 
with wilting plants and a few moldy 
birds* nests. The Wildlife Programme 
should have its own place, either a 
room or cabin, where books, pictures, 
properly cared-for specimens, aquaria, 
terraria, small cages and the like may 
be kept, and serve as a point of focus 
for the campers. Here may be displayed 
the work of the campers along with 
their lists, dates, places and observers 
of animals seen, and reported. 

Wildlife activities can be correlated 
with other camp activities. Among the 
campers will be some who are interested 
in wildlife. Although most boys would 
probably like to make a paddle in the 
handicraft section, a few may choose 
to build a bird house, or a terrarium, or 
even an aquarium. Animals, such as 
salamanders, frogs, toads, snakes and 
turtles, make excellent subjects for 
modelling in clay or carving in wood or 
soap. Notebooks containing pictureSy 
drawings, pressed leaves and ferns can 
be covered with worked leather or 
decorated cardboard made in the arts 
and crafts section. Insect nets, spread- 


36 


Canadian Camping 





ing boards and killing bottles may be 
made by the camper who has found 
the collecting of butterflies a fascinating 
pastime or hobby. The building and 
maintenance of labelled ‘'nature trails” 
and “testing trails” will require the 
making of labels and the lettering of 
the texts. It will mean, also, the choos¬ 
ing of suitable texts for the labels. 
Plant presses will also be required of 
the carpenter shop. Wildlife, therefore, 
may be correlated with many other 
camp activities and can become an 
integrated part of the camp pro¬ 
gramme. 

We have indicated the reasons for 
having a Wildlife Programme included 
in the camp programme. We have 
pointed out some of the difficulties and 
mistakes which are commonly 
encountered and have outlined sugges¬ 
tions for a Wildlife Programme. In 
Algonquin Provincial Park, the Depart¬ 
ment of Lands and Forests has estab¬ 
lished a Nature Museum and Nature 
Programme for the tourists and the 
camps in the Park. This has been a 
great help to counselors and campers. 
Not all camps, unfortunately, have such 
an opportunity at their door steps. 
Consequently, camp directors and pro¬ 
gramme planners are invited to discuss 
with the Department of Lands and 
Forests their problems regarding nature 
education. It is hoped that they may 
benefit from the Department's experi¬ 
ence in the Park, and that Wildlife 
Activity may soon be restored to its 
rightful place in the camp programme. 
About the Authors . . . 

A. F. HELMSLEY is an instructor 
in the Ontario Forest Rangers School. 
There, as here,, he talks of fish and wild¬ 
life. He graduated from the University 
of Toronto and is a specialist in geo¬ 
graphy and has a first class Teacher’s 
Certificate. For four and a half years 
he was in the R.G.A.F. overseas. 

J. D. ROSEBOROUGH is a biolo¬ 
gist, in charge of the organization and 
training of hunting and fishing guides 
throughout Ontario. 


□ 

We are prepared 
to discuss your 
CAMP CAPACITY NEEDS 
on large or small 

DISHWASHERS 
VERTICAL FOOD MIXERS 

and 20 lb. (and up) 

POTATO PEELERS 

25 years of efficiently 
and economically handling 
labour-saving machinery for 
the 

Camp Cookhouse 

" ‘BLAKESLEE‘~ 

LIMITED 

18 CRANFIELD ROAD TORONTO 13 

- OXFORD 1132._ 





Protection for YOU . . . 
Protection for Your CAMPERS 

Against LOSS—DISPUTES 

—ARGUMENTS 

Make it a requirement that all cam¬ 
pers' clothing and belongings are 
marked with 

WOVEN 
NAMES 

Mark camp linen, too, to avoid con¬ 
fusion and loss. Use either names, 
numbers, initials, or any special 
markings desired. 

At Dealers—or Direct from 

I. & J. CASH (Can.) LIMITED 

Belleville 32, Ontario 

Name; 3 doz. $2.25; 6 doz. $2.75 

Prfees: 9 doz. $3.25; 12 doz. $3.75 



Toronto, Canada, April, 1953 


37 





CAMP DIRECTORS NOTE! 

We have chemicals for cleaning 

Septic Tanks and Cesspools 
Outhouses and Privies 
Drains, Sump and Grease Pits 
Also 

Anaerobic Booster for keeping trouble away 
Special 20% Discount to all bonafide camp 
and resort owners. Write for folder 

TOWN & COUNTRY 

EQUIPMENT & SUPPLY 

EM. 8-3111 107 Mutual St., Toronto 

HYDROSAN SEPTIC TOILETS 


^^CAMP 

— is a bit of life in the open, 
where children are to gather educa¬ 
tional experiences from nature; a place 
where they may listen to the silence of 
the stars and perhaps hear God speak. 
A place where they may catch His 
whisper in the still forest and see His 
hand in the faint traceries of a wild 
flower’s petal. Make sure it is like that, 
and the uniform will not matter.” 

—Angelo Patri 



Til 

■fi 


Jli" 

KJ 



ANYWHERE IN ONTARIO 

Let's talk it over 

HAROLD H. THOMPSON 

Building Contractor 
Gravenhurst Ontario 


NATIONAL GROCERS COMPANY LIMITED 

Wholesale Distributors 

FRUITS - VEGETABLES - BUTTER - CHEESE - EGGS 
GENERAL GROCERY PRODUCTS 

33 Branches in Ontario 

Notional Grocers Company, Limited, operate 33 distributing warehouses through¬ 
out the Province of Ontario, ready at all times to serve the camping trade with 
prompt deliveries. 

Warehouses located at: 


Belleville 

Brantford 

Chatham 

Cochrane 

Collingwood 

Cornwall 

Guelph 

Hamilton 

Kapuskasing 

Kingston 

Kitchener 


Kirkland Lake 

Lindsay 

London 

New Liskeard 

Niagara Falls 

North Bay 

Orillia 

Oshawa 

Ottawa 

Owen Sound 

Pembroke 


Parry Sound 
Peterborough 
St. Catharines 
St. Thomas 
Sarnia 

Sault Ste. Marie 

Stratford 

Sudbury 

Timmins 

Toronto 

Windsor 


HEAD OFFICE: 21 Front St. East, Toronto 


38 


Canadian Camping 






The Enil of Yonr Tiunpintf Dafftt 


When you come to the end of your camping days 
lou re aware, with the greatest surprise,^ 

1 hat the time has flown like a magic drearn— 

1 hose days neath the open skies. 

\ ou wistiully think of the fun you’ve had, 

Glad days in the sun and the rain 

And you wish somehow you were given the chance 
lo relive them all once again. 

\ou think of the sports and the laughter gay 
Of trips that were ended too soon. 

Of tales by a fire, and canoes at night 
In the path of a silver)^ moon. 

But you think most of all of the friends you’ve made 
Gamp friends that are loyal and true ^ 

And you count as a treasure beyond compare 
V\hat friendship has meant to you. 

This is not the end of it all, you’ll find. 

For in ^/lemory still you’ll retain 

A treasure vyhich Time can only enrich_ 

Which will still in your heart remain. 

So thanks be to God for His precious gifts. 

For memories which never shall fade ’ 

But beyond all else, our thanks we give 
For the love of the friends we’ve made. 


(Written August 1952, as 
of “The End of a Perfect Day.) 


Mary S. Edgar. 

a closing camp song which is sung to 


the tune 


For over half a century 

North America’s Finest 

BOATS — CANOES — SNOWSHOES, ETC. 

— for — 

Camp, Pleasure and Commercial Use 

Chestnut canoe co. ltd. 

FREDERICTON, New Brunswick, Canada 


Toronto, Canada, April, 1953 


39 













Do You Know the Secret of Successful Camping? 

The secret lies in always keeping up to 
date with the latest ideas in 
organized camping. 


Alert camp directors and their staffs read about tried and 
proved ideas in the monthly CAMPING MAGAZINE and the 
annual REFERENCE AND BUYING GUIDE issues. They 
know the danger of static thinking and obsolete ideas. You, too, 
will find these publications a never-ending source of new, usable 
ideas. Membership in American Camping Association 
includes your subscription to these publications and many more 
valuable benefits, costs $3.00 to $25.00 per year, depen^ng on 
classification. Write for full information on membership. Or, 
for subscription alone, send $5.50 for a 2 year subscription. 
($3.25 per year). 


In the Magazine . . . 

Eight issues every year 
— as much usable 
material as in an 800- 
page book! 

€AMmNG 

705 Park Avenue 


In the Reference Issue 

... More than 160 
pages of charts, tables 
diagrams; answers to 
hundreds of questions*. 

MAdiAMNE 

Plainfield, NJ. 


40 


Canadian Camping 



Continued from page 15 


may be set to yield water at any tem¬ 
perature from 130°F to 180°F desired, 
will raise the temperature of water from 
50°F to 140°F at a rate of about 50 
gallons per hour, will cost about $265, 
and is estimated to cost about $ 1.40 per 
day for gas (at 7c per lb.). This heater 
will take care of our mythical camp 
needing 30 showers a day. For maxi¬ 
mum economy, a group of eight camp¬ 
ers should use the system every 1 ^ 
hours until 30 have showered. It is 
upon this assumption that the above 
operating cost data is given. You will 
note that the cost of the heater includes 
both the heating system and the storage 
tank. Electric water heaters cost about 
as much as gas heaters to operate, but 
have two major disadvantages:—they 
have usually a slow “recovery rate” 
(rate at which they will reheat the 
water once all the hot water is drawn 
off), and are unreliable in areas subject 
to power interruptions from storms and 
the whims of the power supply. Some¬ 
times a combination of coal heater with 
electric booster is the best solution to 
this heating problem. It is recom¬ 
mended that the water heater be in¬ 
stalled in a separate part of the shower 
building, and this part kept locked. A 
fire extinguisher should be supplied. 
Storage space for solid fuel, or a small 
space on an outside wall for the gas 
tanks, must be provided. 

Perhaps the biggest problem for many 
camps located in rocky areas will be 


the disposal of the waste water. In 
sandy soil this may be discharged into 
a leaching pit lined with coarse stones, 
and with a board cover, where the 
water may drain away. It must not be 
allowed to contaminate a source of 
water supply, or a swimming area. In 
other areas, a tile bed of 4 inch weeping 
tile will be needed. The length of this 
tile area depends on the 'absorption 
properties of the soil, and will vary 
from 100 to 300 feet of tile to handle 
the 450 gallons of water (30 showers 
at 15 gallons each,.‘Over a 4 to 6 hour 
period) discharged daily, with average 
soil conditions. A soil absorption test 
should be made as a basis for determin¬ 
ing the correct, length ; information 
about this test is available from the 
author. Where the soil has poor ab¬ 
sorption properties, it is advisable to 
discharge the waste water through a 
storage tank (perhaps made of concrete 
and located below the shower building), 
where the waste water is retained long 
enough for the scum to be removed 
before it enters the tile bed. If fitted 
with a standard septic tank syphon 
fitting, the tank will discharge periodi¬ 
cally into the tile bed, preventing a 
flooding of the tile while the showers 
are in use, and providing a flushing 
action at regular intervals. 

Camp directors wishing more specific 
advice, or addresses of business firms 
handling the above equipment, should 
get in touch with the author. 


NORTHERN ONTARIO'S FINEST RECREATIONAL AREA, FROM 
-NORTH BAY TO MOOSONEE, IS SERVED BY 

ONTARIO NORTHLAND RAILWAY 

For information on desirable areas for Camps in new territory 
apply to: 

R. P. C. McLEOD, 

Traffic Manager, 

Ontario Northland Railway, 
North Bay, Ontario. 


Toronto, Canada,^April, 1953 


41 





Our Friends 
the Advertisers 


G. S. Blakeslec & Co. Ltd. 37 

The Borden Co.^ Ltd.-. 18 

Camping Magazine .—.. 40 

Canada Packers Ltd..... 20 

J. J. Cash (Can.) Ltd. 37 

Cassidy’s Ltd. 36 

Chestnut Canoe Co. Ltd. 39 

Continental Casualty Co. 

Inside Back Cover 

T. Eaton Co. Ltd.. 3 

Foodcraft Laboratories Ltd. 26 

General Plastics Ltd..... 24 

Gibbons Quickset Desserts 

Inside Front Cover 

Grey Owl Indian Craft Co. 36 

S, Gumpert Go. of Can. Ltd. 33 

Ingram & Bell Ltd.. 33 

Kert Manufacturing Go. 34 

John Leckie Ltd.. 32 

Maple Leaf Plastics Ltd.. 35 

McKague Chemical Co. Ltd. 6 

National Grocers Ltd. 38 

Ontario Department 

of Lands and Forests.— 20 

Ontario Northland Railway.... 41 

Redbook Magazine. 30 

Superior Propane Ltd. 28 

Swift Canadian Go. Ltd.— 4 

' J. J. Taylor & Sons Ltd... 29 

Tom Taylor Go. Ltd. 33 

Harold H. Thompson . 38 

Town & Country 

Equipment & Supply. 38 

Vermont Accident Insurance 

Go..- Outside Back Cover 

G. R. Welch Go. Ltd. 28 

Windsor Mattress & 

Equipment Go. Ltd.-. 34 

G. H. Wood & Go. Ltd. 31 


CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING 
RATES: 

Five cents a word, minimum two 
dollars. All classified advertising pay¬ 
able in advance. Address all corres¬ 
pondence to “Canadian Camping”, 
170 Bloor Street West, Toronto, 
Ontario. ’ 


A BOY IS A BANK 

A boy is a bank where you may 
deposit your most precious treasures— 
the hard-won wisdom, the dreams for 
a better world. A boy can guard and 
protect these, and perhaps invest them 
wisely and win a profit—a profit larger 
than you have ever dreamed. 

A boy will inherit your world. All 
your work will be judged by him. To- 
morrow he will take your seat in Parlia¬ 
ment, own your company, run your 
town. The future is his, and through 
him, the future is yours. Perhaps he 
deserves a little more of your attention 
now. 

—Anonymous 


Continued from page 28 

young people and those of limited 
means to a greater knowledge, love 
and care of the countryside, to 
develop their self-reliance and inde- 
. pendence, and to promote their 
physical health, spiritual welfare and 
education by spending as much time 
in the open air as possible by means 
of camping and kindred activities.’ 

All those who camp are young at 
heart whatever their age; it is fitting, 
therefore, that we should now have a 
young—and who can deny —• most 
popular and happy man, at the 'head 
of things.’ 


PRINTING 

... AT ITS BEST 

Fast and Efficient Service 
on Your Camp Needs ! 

Qxant Pointing. 

Printers of ''Canadian Camping" 

86 Harbord Street Toronto, Ont. 
Midway 4158 


42 


Canadian Camping 

































CAMPERS MEDICAL INSURANCE 


EXAMINE THESE LIBERAL BENEFITS; 

$1,500.00 Medical Expenses - Each Accident 
$ 350.00 Medical Expenses - Each Sickness 
$1,500.00 Medical Expenses for Polio 

$2,500.00 for Accidental Death, or Loss of two 
limbs, or sight of both eyes 

$1,875.00 for loss of arm or leg 

$1,250.00 for loss of one hand, or foot or sight 
of one eye 

Plans available for all church and organizational camps 


©You and your staff members 
may also have the protec¬ 
tion, if desired! 


Plans that really pay the 
bills — no schedule of pay¬ 
ments! 


o Now—a new ease of hand¬ 
ling—no deposit or mini¬ 
mum premium, only one 
report! 

• Your campers are also pro¬ 
tected while travelling to 
and from camp. 


^‘The Most Respected Name 
in Camp Insurance^^ 

Casualty Company . . . incorporated in 
• • • Is a pioneer in meeting the special require¬ 
ments of individuals and organizations. Organizational 
Camp Insurance Is another development in a continu¬ 
ing program of accommodating consumer needs. 

Phone or Write 

CONTINENTAL CASUALTY COMPANY 


SPECIAL RISKS DIVISION 


800 Bay Street 
TORONTO 
PRincess 5771 


1510 Drummond Street 
MONTREAL 
MArquette 5306 




HAVE THE BEST 

CAMPERS' INSURANCE 

MEDICAL REIMBURSEMENT 
ACCIDENTAL DEATH 
TUITION REFUND 
EPIDEMIC 
POLIO 

We have paid thousands of dollars in 
claims for comps which are members 
of the Canadian Camping Association. 

Why not avail yourself of this excel¬ 
lent protection and thereby establish 
another medium of public relations 
with the parents? 

BEST IN COVERAGE • BEST IN SERVICE 

accident! INSURANCIr 

RUTLAND. VT. 

rMARTKRED 1900 

VERMONT ACCIDENT INSURANCE CO. 

RUTLAND, VERMONT, U.S.A. 


THE SIGN OF A 
GOOD SERVICE ▼ 






