
February 1951 

TORONTO, CANADA 














© 

5 to 1 

JELLY POWDERS 
® 

5 to 1 

PUDDING POWDERS 
© 

LEMON PIE FILLING 

© 

7 to 1 

FRUIT RICKEY 
® 

CAKE MIXES 

SERVING CAMPS AND INSTITUTIONS 
EXCLUSIVELY FOR 30 YEARS 



Hundreds of Camp Directors know these top quality products 
have more flavor and give more servings 


— Prepared in 20 minutes — 

Order Now by Telephone or Mail for June Delivery 

All orders prepaid to your Camp 


Telephone 
PLaza 5085 

24 HOUR SERVICE 


GIBBONS 

QUICKSET DESSERTS 


20 RipSey Avenue, Toronto, Canada 
















From EATON'S 


For years we’ve been outfitting campers with almost everything they need to 
help make their camping holiday as enjoyable as possible. The following are a few 
of the camping necessities available at EATON’S Sporting Goods Dept.: Ground 
Sheets, Thermos Jugs, Iceboxes, Dunnage Bags, Blanket pins, Sun Helmets, Plates, 
Pots, Cups, Fishing Tackle, Mosquito Bars, Gasoline Stoves and Lanterns, Folding 
Cots, Chairs, Rucksacks, Packsacks, Sleeping Bags. Contact Sporting Goods 
Department. 

EATON'S 


Toronto, Canada , February , 1951 


3 


























The best camp prospects are 
easy to find. Especially among 
700,000 top income families in New 
York, New Jersey, Connecticut 
and across the U. S. . . . who are 
aware of the benefits children get 
from camp and who plan to send 
their children to camp next year. 
To talk to these prime prospects— 



—tell your story in the Sunday 
newspaper that reaches all of them! 
—The Herald Tribune. Get full 
facts—right now—about the Camp 
Directory in the Herald Tribune’s 
This Week Magazine Section! 




CAMP DIRECTORY 
IN THE HERALD TRIRUNE 

230 West 41st Street, New York 18, N. Y. 


GUMPERT HAS EVERYTHING 


I Gelatine Desserts 

Cream Desserts I 

I Fruit Drinks (Liquid and Dehydrated) 

\ Extracts and Colaors 
I Spaghetti Sauce 

Soups (Liquid and Dehydrated) 

1 Cake Mixes 
I Complete Line of Bakery 


— 

GUMPERT 


HAS EVERYTHING 


S. GUMPERT CO. OF CANADA, LTD. 

31 BROCK AVE., TORONTO ME. 5758 




Protection for You . . . 
Protection for 

Your Campers . . . 

Against LOSS—DISPUTES 

—ARGUMENTS 

Make it a requirement that all cam¬ 
pers' clothing and belongings are 
marked with 

Woven 
Names 

Mark camp linen, too, to avoid con¬ 
fusion and. loss. Use either names, 
numbers, initials, or any special 
markings desired. 

At Dealers—or Direct from 

J. <£ J. CASH (Can.) LIMITED 

Belleville 32, Ontario 

Name: 3 doz. $1.80; 6 doz. $2.40 
Prices: 9 doz. $3.00; 12 doz. $3.50 





4 


Canadian Camping 





















CANADIAN CAMPING 


Vol. Ill FEBRUARY, 1951 


No. 1 


CONTENTS 


Leadership . M. C. /. 7 

So You’re Going to Build. Keith Clever don 9 

Experiences in Winter Camping. W. E. Yard 14 

So You Think You’re Covered . M. H. Crone 15 

Association Notes . 17 

The Editor Comments. 19 

Letters to the Editor. 19 

Book Reviews . 21 

Trading Post. 25 

In Lighter Vein . 29 


CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 
Office: Room 221 - 771 Burnside Ave., Montreal 


Honorary President 

A. L. Cochrane, Toronto 

Past Presidents 

Taylor Statten, Toronto 
Dais L. Gass, Montreal 

President 

Anne I. Vail 

2035 Coursol St., Montreal 

Vice Presidents 

Irwin Haladner, Toronto. 

W. E. (Ted) Yard, Toronto. 


Secretary 

Agnes Mutchler, 

771 Burnside Ave., Montreal. 

Treasurer 

E. O. Freedman, 

10 Ontario St. W., Montreal. 

Editor 

Mary S. Edgar, 

64 St. Clair Ave. W., Toronto. 

Publishing Agent 
Fred Haiblen, 

170 Bloor St. W., Toronto. 


“CANADIAN CAMPING” IS PUBLISHED FOUR TIMES A YEAR BY THE CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
CO. FOR THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION AT 170 BLOOR ST. WEST, TORONTO. ONTARIO. SUB¬ 
SCRIPTION PRICES: MEMBERSHIP IN THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION INCLUDES CANADIAN 
CAMPING: TO NON-MEMBERS, 25 CENTS PER COPY. AUTHORIZED AS SECOND CLASS MAIL. POST 

OFFICE DEPARTMENT. OTTAWA. ONT. 


Toronto, Canada, February, 1951 


5 













.tlAffUKO > 


* &»ic 

Pineappf* 

Jtu.v 

^ POWDER 


; i 


For years Stafford's have served campers with economical 
food materials specially prepared to fit the camper's needs. 
Our Northern Branch is open each summer to handle your 
requirements. In the meantime, now, as your plans for the 
season develop, place your initial order with us for prompt 
attention. 

Here are only a few of our campers' favourites: 

HOT CHOCOLATE POWDER CAKE MIXES 

CHICKEN AND VEGETABLE PANCAKE MIXES AND 

NOODLE SOUP MIX PANCAKE SYRUP 

FRUIT PIE FILLINGS JELLY POWDERS 

JELLIES, MARMALADES, JA 

CREME PIE FILLINGS MERINGUE POWDER 

MINCEMEAT BAKERS FLAVOURS 


Visit Our Booth at The Ontario Camping Conference 


STAFFORD FOODS LIMITED 

37 HANNA AVENUE 


TORONTO, CANADA 


6 


Canadian Camping 





LEADERSHIP 


One of the most important, and 
at the same time, perplexing prob¬ 
lems which will confront camp direc¬ 
tors during the next few months is 
that of reaching decisions in regard 
to counselor personnel. Scores of appli¬ 
cants, many with interesting qualifica¬ 
tions, will present themselves, but few 
people realize how difficult is the sift- 
ing-out process essential to securing the 
right person. Preliminary inquiries re¬ 
lating to native ability, training and 
experience swiftly bring eliminations, 
but in the end the all-important ques¬ 
tion is that of leadership. To discover 
the strength and quality of leadership 
without seeing it in action is by no 
means easy. It is true, however, that 
as sunshine is to the physical atmos¬ 
phere, so is leadership to the social, 
psychological and spiritual atmosphere 
of camp relations--leadership of the 
type that is radiant, confident, selfless 
and serene, not only in fair weather 
and when the going is smooth, but 
shining in all weathers with a clear, 
steady, comforting radiance. Only 
leadership of this quality will create 
and maintain the atmosphere of har¬ 
mony and confidence which makes for 
deep-seated and undistrubed joyous¬ 
ness throughout the camp season. 

One may well ask at this point: 
“What is leadership?” “What are the 
requirements for the best type of lead¬ 
ership?” Here, I shall quote from a 
thought-provoking* address on leader¬ 
ship, given at a conference of organiz¬ 
ers at Ashford, England, by Sir Wm. 
Haley, Director General of the British 


Broadcasting Corporation. “First, last 
and all the time, leadership is responsi¬ 
bility . . . The rest is a matter of 
human relationships. One requirement 
is so essential that I would have it stay 
in your mind. It is this: No one can 
lead others unless he can lead himself. 
It is no new idea, but with modern 
psychology and other studies, we are 
coming more to understand its force. 
Outward command can only exist 
where there is inward command. The 
man or woman who has not yet success¬ 
fully coped with himself or herself can¬ 
not expect to cope with others. If I am 
right in believing that leadership de¬ 
pends on character—and, above all, on 
the acceptance of character by others, 
then the leader who will be followed 
is the one who has won his or her own 
battle. For these things are clear and 
they are far more perceptible than one 
ever realizes; indeed, in the course of 
long and steady association with others, 
they cannot be hidden. If there is not 
confidence and harmony within one¬ 
self, one will not long naturally be able 
to induce them in others. For a time 
they may be induced artificially; but the 
effect will more and more weaken till 
the whole effort breaks down. The 
greatest leaders are those who have 
radiated serenity from a full and active 
mind.” 

Leadership of that type which springs 
from integrity, understanding and a 
genuine interest in individuals, can 
bring about wonderful results. Further¬ 
more, it will tend to foster and develop 
leadership whatever the setting may be. 


Toronto, Canada, February, 1951 


7 


This is particularly desirable with ’teen¬ 
agers and even with groups at a lower 
age level. Counselors and sometimes 
even camp directors fail to keep this in 
mind as an objective and to conse¬ 
quently emphasize its importance at 
counselor meetings. New counselors 
may ask: “But how?” 

It may be done: 

(1) by studying one’s special group 
with an eye for aptitude. 

(2) by delegating, even to more or 
less inexperienced campers, real author¬ 
ity, however unpretentious the field. 

(3) by carefully considering, and 
without due haste, the results (successes 
and failures) and by systematically dis¬ 
cussing the situation with each indi¬ 
vidual. 

(4) by testing progress each step of 
the way and gradually broadening the 
field of responsibility. 

In the normal course of events one 
can count on more successes than fail¬ 
ures, but initiative in developing, confi¬ 
dence and assurance is being built up, 
a sense of responsibility is emerging. 

One of the greatest gifts of leadership 
is the ability to get everyone to play his 
or her part. To make each camper feel 
that they have a contribution to make 
(even though it may be little more than 
keeping their own corner of the cabin 
tidy), will establish an esprit de corps. 
This cannot fail to constitute a constant 
challenge to even the youngest camper, 
to say nothing about the lazy and in¬ 
different ones, and the satisfaction 
for whatever achievements have been 
worked out will be shared. That con¬ 
sciousness of being of some value to the 
group and perhaps to the organization 
will be an asset not only to the indi¬ 
vidual but also to the camp as a whole. 
In this way veins of pure gold will 
sometimes be tapped and campers as 
well as counselors who have appeared 
to have no particular ability will blos¬ 


som forth with assurance and decision, 
surprising to themselves as well as to 
their associates. 

Among older groups this particular 
gift of leadership will stimulate mental 
and spiritual growth; this is very evi¬ 
dent when campers and junior coun¬ 
selors are asked to take some part in 
morning prayers or in the Sunday 
service. It will also bring greater 
understanding of social relationships, 
activities and give-and-take adjustments 
which are part of the adult world where 
they will shortly take their place and 
for which, in a measure, they will be 
better prepared. 

With a preponderance of the highest 
type of leadership each successive camp 
season will become richer and more 
fruitful in its contribution to the nation. 
Memories of camp will be to every 
member, including the service person¬ 
nel, a never-to-be-forgotten experience 
of co-operative achievement. 

-M. C. J. 


* The address appears in the October issue, 
1950, of the Canadian Guider. 



8 


Canadian Camping 


So YOU’RE 


GOING TO KUILO 


R. K. Cleyerdon, M.A.Sc., P.Eng., 

University of Toronto; Director, Camp Kandalore 


With spring approaching, many of 
us arc making plans to add new build¬ 
ings to our camps, to improve our exist¬ 
ing facilities and to make room for new 
campers. Many camp directors know 
very little about the construction of 
frame camp buildings and as a result, 
are often unable to discuss problems 
intelligently with the carpenters and 
builders whom they engage. This often 
means that funds are not spent as wisely 
as they might be. It is the intention of 
this article to explain the basic building 
terms in such a way that camp directors 
will at least know what their carpenters 
are talking about. It is felt, too, that 
many camp buildings throughout Can¬ 
ada have been improperly constructed, 
with faulty designs, too little attention 
to minimum space requirements and to 
the safety of the campers using them. 
Too many buildings have bowed ridges, 
sloping walls, sunken foundations and 
a general air of desolation. And the 
strange part about it is that the build¬ 
ing could usually have been built 
properly for not more than an addi¬ 
tional ten percent expenditure. Many 
camp directors are unable to predict the 
cost of a new building. Thus, they arc 
a wonderful target for an unscrupulous 
contractor. Each section of this article 
will contain an estimate of the unit costs 
of the materials mentioned. These are 
based on current Toronto costs. Labour 
varies so widely across Canada that it 
would be wise to either get a labour 
estimate from a local builder, or else 


engage competent, speedy carpenters on 
an hourly basis and keep after them to 
get the building erected for as little as 
possible. 

This article will cover frame camp 
buildings only, and since the strength 
factors implied in the various sections 
are based on summer occupancy by 
children for the most part, they must 
not be used for other conditions. Most 
camp buildings can be considered as 
“light occupancy” buildings, housing 
children or at most three or four staff 
members. Staff and camper cabins and 
simdar buildings fall under the light 
occupancy class. Assembly buildings 
such as lodges and dining halls, craft 
shops, and possibly administration build¬ 
ings, need stronger floor systems. It is 
recommended that if such buildings are 
planned, the floor system be properly 
designed by a competent designer. 

The starting point in designing a new 
camp building is the floor plan. Mini¬ 
mum floor areas for cabins are: camp¬ 
ers, 40 sq. ft. per camper; junior staff, 
60 sq. ft. per person; senior staff and 
married personnel, 90 sq. ft. per person. 
Floor plans must be prepared to scale, 
considering the following: minimum 
floor area for the desired number of 
persons, size of beds and other furni¬ 
ture, location of doors and windows 
(check the position of doors and win¬ 
dows open and shut to be sure of no 
obstruction), trunk storage or locker 


Toronto, Canada, February, 1951 


9 


space. Buildings are cheaper if built in 
12, 14 or 16 foot dimensions, or mul¬ 
tiples thereof. These dimensions are 
measured from the outsides of the floor, 
and since the walls and interior parti¬ 
tions are nailed onto the floor, the area 
is reduced by the amount of space occu¬ 
pied by the walls. Be sure to allow 
space for alternative arrangements of 
furniture. Doors should be at least 2'- 
6" wide. 

Space does not permit any more than 
a cursory mention of exterior archi¬ 
tecture. As far as possible, use materials 
and construction styles which har¬ 
monize with the Canadian setting. 
Rough clapboard or log siding is recom¬ 
mended for exterior sheathing. Stone 
fireplaces or foundations are excellent. 
Plenty of large windows let in light and 
warmth and enhance the “camping 
out” impressions of youngsters. 

If any of the terms are not sufficiently 
clear to you in the material to follow, 
you are advised to drop around to a 
new building being erected in your 
neighbourhood and ask a few questions. 
It won’t take you long to get used to 
joist, plate, stud, sill and such terms. 

Every building must have a founda¬ 
tion, and it must carry the building 
loads through to the ground. It thus 
must be carefully designed. Unfortu¬ 
nately, there is a very common feeling 
that “anything will do” for a founda¬ 
tion, with the result that an otherwise 
well-designed building soon leans out of 
plumb or settles in one corner when the 
foundation gives way. Under extreme 
conditions of snow, the total weight of 
a camp building with its contents and 
snow load may exceed 125 pounds per 
square foot of area. A building 18' by 
24' supported by nine posts will then 
weigh 54,000 lb., or 6,000 lb. per post! 

Three types of foundations are used 
in camp buildings: 

(a) Light buildings may be supported 


by large flat stones placed on the top 
of ground, first removing the surface 
humus to get a good bearing surface on 
mineral soil. If the stones are not dug 
in too far, no frost heave will occur. 

(b) Cedar posts dug down to below 
the frost line (varies from 3 to 5 ft. 
depth in inhabited parts of Canada). 
Creosoting will help preserve them. 
They are not as good as flat stones for 
light buildings, and due to their decay, 
are not recommended for heavy build¬ 
ings. 

(c) Concrete posts 12" square car¬ 
ried down below the frost line. If they 
can be founded on bed rock, this is 
recommended. If not, they must be 
supported by a concrete footing at least 
6" thick and of sufficient area so they 
won’t sink into the ground. One square 
foot of gravel or sand will support 
about 5,000 lb. The same figure applies 
to hard and medium clay. For soft clay, 
muck, “rock flour” and other materials, 
seek professional advice. If several con¬ 
crete posts are being built, so that the 
wooden forms mav be used several 
times over, they will cost about $1.20 
per linear foot. This includes materials, 
labour, formwork lumber and rent of 
mixer. Nine posts for an 18 x 24 build¬ 
ing, averaging 5 feet in length each, 
will thus cost about $54.00. Footings 
are extra, about $2.00 each for average 
jobs. 

Some camp buildings may be sup¬ 
ported on stone piers, stone or concrete 
walls, and log sills placed on the ground. 

Floors in frame camp buildings con¬ 
sist of three components: 

(a) Floor sheathing—this is usually 
made from one inch lumber, dressed to 
%" thickness by 3 to 6 inch width. It 
may be dressed on four sides (D4S), 
or tongued and grooved ,T&G). Spruce 
is usually used. A finished hardwood 
floor may be placed over the spruce 
floor, but this is unusual. 


10 


Canadian Camping 



(b) Joists—these are 2" thick planks, 
varying from 6 to 10 inches in width, 
placed on their edges and spaced 
usually 16" apart, on which the floor 
sheathing is nailed. They may be 
either saw sized to 2 x 6, 2 x 8, or 
2 x 10 inches (S.S.), or dressed to 
slightly smaller size (D4S). Hemlock, 
spruce and fir are used. Maximum 
spans for joists of commercial grades 
of these materials, for use in light 
occupancy camp buildings, are given 
below. Spacing must be 16 inches. 


Nominal size Maximum Maximum 

of joist span if rough span if dressed 

joists used joists used 

2x6 9'-0" 8'-4" 

2 x 8 13'-1" 12'-1" 

2 x 10 16'-6" 15'-3" 


(c) Sills—the ends of the joists rest 
on timber sills made by spiking together 
at least two or more joists face to face. 
For example, if joists 2 x 8 x 12 ft. S.S. 
were used in a light occupancy camp 
building, a sill made from two 2 x 8’s 
spiked face to face to make a 4 x 8 
beam would be satisfactory, if it were 
supported every 6 ft. A good rough 
guide for light camp buildings is this: 
use doubled planks of the same size as 
the joists, and support them every four 
to six feet maximum. 

Cost of floors: Using %" T&G 
spruce flooring, 2 x 8 SS joists, and 
4x8 sills, floors will cost about 30c per 
square foot for materials. This figure 
covers sheathing, joists and sills. 

Walls in frame camp buildings are 
usually built from a framework of 2 x 4 
lumber, covered by 1 inch sheathing of 
various types. The framework for one 
wall consists of one horizontal 2x4 
spiked to the floor boards, called the 
“bottom plate”, vertical 2x4 members 
spaced 24 inches apart, called “studs”, 
and two horizontal 2x4 members at 
the top, called the “top plates”. The 
top plates must be doubled to overlap 
the adjacent frames at the comers and 
enable them to be spiked together. They 
also provide some lateral rigidity to the 


wall. Studs may be placed closer to¬ 
gether than 24 inches, but this is un¬ 
necessary in most camp buildings. They 
must be doubled at all doors and should 
be doubled at windows, particularly if 
the window opening is large. If a stud 
is placed every 24 inches regardless of 
where windows come (naturally they 
must be cut off above and below the 
window), then standard width insula¬ 
tion boards and plywoods will fit. You 
may wish to line a building at some 
future date and it is well to make 
allowances for it. It costs no more. 
Wall frameworks are usually built on 
the floor and then raised into position. 
If care is taken to make the floor 
absolutely level, the rest of the building 
will be facilitated, since the frameworks 
may be braced square while still on the 
floor. Once all of them are raised into 
position, they must be spiked together, 
and then plumbed and braced that way 
by temporary braces. The exterior 
sheathing is then nailed on. 

In low cost buildings, the exterior 
sheathing is nailed directly onto the 
studs. It may be log siding, cove or 
other standard sheathings, or rough 
overlapping boards. They should be 
started below the bottom plate, on the 
ends of the joists, to hide the joist 
system. If a warmer building is desired, 
an exterior coyering of insulboard or 
ten-test or other material may be ap¬ 
plied before the lumber sheathing. This 
will add from 7 to 9c per square foot 
to the cost of the wall. Alternatively, 
single lumber may be used on the ex¬ 
terior and an insulation board applied 
to the interior surface of the wall. While 
they will likely not be considered for 
camp use, some exterior surface mate¬ 
rials, such as asbestos-cement shingles, 
require a rough layer of boards onto 
which they are nailed. These rough 
boards are often nailed on diagonally to 
strengthen the wall. 

Openings in the framework are left 
during construction for doors and 
windows. Horizontal 2 x 4’s called 


Toronto, Canada, February, 1951 


11 


“headers” if overhead, and “sills” if 
underneath, are nailed in at all open¬ 
ings. Double headers are advised for 
doors, and all large windows. 

Doors may be built on the job from 
sheathing or other material, or they 
may be bought from a mill. They come 
in standard sizes only: doors from 2' to 
2'-6" wide are obtainable in 2" differ¬ 
ences of width, and all are 6" high. 
Larger doors are 2'-8" by 6'-8". and 
up to 3' x 7'. Panel doors cost about 
$10 each for the smaller sizes, but if 
fitted with a window in the upper 
third, will cost about $15. A cheaper 
door, which is recommended for camp 
use, is the mono-panel door made from 
single sheets of plywood glued to a lum¬ 
ber frame. They cost about $6 for 
smaller sizes. Standard inside doors, 
which are 1% inches thick, are suitable 
for exterior camp use if well painted. 
The above prices refer to these. 

Two types of windows are used: 
Double-hung windows, which are cus¬ 
tomary in city houses, consist of two 
sash, the upper sliding down and the 
lower sliding up for ventilation. They 
are rather expensive and unusual in 
camp buildings. Casement sash hinge 
along one edge, or occasionally along 
the top, and swing in or out. If they 
swing in, a screen can be fitted on the 
outside of the window. If they swing 
out, then the screen must be on the 
inside and some arrangement must be 
made through a hole in the screen to 
operate the sash. Swinging in is recom¬ 
mended for camp use. Casement sash 
prices run from $3.75 for one 2' x 3' 
with six separate panes of glass (called 
“lights”), to $7 for one 3' x 4' with 12 
lights. These prices are for glazed sash, 
less hardware. Windows should be so 
located that casement sash swinging in 
can swing right back against the wall, 
otherwise they will be in the way of 
normal inside usage of the building. 
For standard sash sizes, consult a mill. 
Sash should be ordered before the 
building is started, so the correct size 


of opening may be left in the frame. 
It is expensive to cut sash down after¬ 
wards, and only a small amount may 
be taken, off without spoiling them. This 
is particularly important in the case of 
doors. No more than l/o inch may be 
taken off the edge of a door in most 
cases, or the lock hardware won’t fit. 

Interior partitions are built in much 
the same way as exterior walls, though 
sometimes the top plate is single. They 
may be covered with lumber or ply¬ 
wood, or other wall boards. 

The materials for exterior walls of 
frame camp buildings built as described, 
and using any of the standard exterior 
sheathings such as log siding, cost about 
20c per square foot exclusive of sash. 
For ordinary buildings, a rough estimate 
of 25c per square foot will include an 
allowance for sash. If shutters are built, 
they will be extra. 

Large frame buildings frequently sag, 
their walls bow outwards, or they shift 
out of plumb. This can be stopped by 
incorporating diagonal braces into the 
framework on long walls, and by tying 
the exterior walls to one another by 
interior partitions or tie members. 
Otherwise the effect of the rafters is 
to push the walls out and thus lower 
the ridge line. Perhaps this has not 
been too well described, but since the 
behaviour referred to is all too common 
in camp buildings, most of you will 
need no further explanation. Don’t 
skimp on bracing in your buildings—it 
is certainly a false economy. 

Perhaps a further word along this 
line would be advisable. If sufficient 
care is taken to get the floor level 
before you start erecting the walls, then 
it is a simple matter to keep the walls 
plumb and the top plates level. This 
will result in a good looking building 
that creates confidence in the minds of 
those using your camp. If the walls 
aren’t plumb or the building square, the 
rafters never fit properly and the build- 


12 


Canadian Camping 


ing becomes an eyesore. 

Which brings us up to roof systems. 
Three kinds of roofs may be used in 
camp buildings: 

(a) Flat or slightly sloping roofs 
sloping in one direction only. These 
are fairly cheap but do not offer good 
snow protection and are of questionable 
appearance. 

(b) Gable roofs—these employ slop¬ 
ing rafters meeting at a ridge. The 
triangular, or “gable”, end of the build¬ 
ing formed by the roof is then filled in 
with wall material. All the rafters are 
the same shape and size, and are called 
“common rafters”. They rest on the 
ridge board at the top and on the top 
plate of the wall at the bottom. Rafters 
are made from 2 x 4 or 2 x 6 lumber, 
the former being satisfactory for spans 
up to about 10 feet in most parts of 
Canada. They are spaced at 16 or 24 
inches! Every second pair of rafters 
should be braced by a horizontal mem¬ 
ber placed about half way down the 
roof, called a “collar tie”. 

(c) Hip or cottage roofs—these em¬ 
ploy several different sizes and shapes 
of rafters which result in there being no 
gable ends in the building. If the build¬ 
ing is square, then the roof rises to a 
point. If it is rectangular, then there 
is a ridge equal in length to the differ¬ 
ence between the side and end dimen¬ 
sions. The ridge is connected to the 
comers of the building by “hip rafters”. 
Rafters running from the wall to the 
hip rafters are called “jack rafters”. If 
the building has a projecting wing, 
there will be a valley formed in the 
roof at that point. This type of roof is 
stronger than the gable roof, it employs 
no more material for any given building 
and the expense of filling in the gable 
is eliminated. It is thus more economi¬ 
cal. Better carpentry is required to cut 
the rafters. Rafters can be 2 x 4 lumber 
for almost all camp use. Hip rafters 
are often longer than 16 feet, the long¬ 
est commercial length of lumber readily 
obtainable. They may be made up from 
spliced 2x4 lumber. 


The pitch of either a gable or hip 
roof is found by dividing the vertical 
height from the level of the top plate 
of the walls to the ridge of the roof, 
by the width across the building. Build¬ 
ings should be designed with quarter, 
third or half pitch. If the building 
were 12 feet wide, its roof height would 
then be 3, 4 or 6 feet respectively. 
Third pitch is recommended for camp 
use. It is economical, and easy to cut 
and work on. The total area of a third 
pitch roof, regardless of whether it is 
hip or gable type, is always 1.2 times 
the area of the floor it covers. This is 
handy in cost estimating. 

In any of the three roof types, the 
rafters are covered with 1 inch lumber 
sheathing, either S.S. or dressed on the 
inside only (D1S). Occasionally T&G 
lumber is used. A layer of tar paper 
may then be applied, or the roofing 
material applied directly to the sheath¬ 
ing. Asphalt base mineral covered roll 
roofing, or asphalt strip shingles may 
be used. Cedar shingles are also used. 
Shingles and roofing are bought by the 
“square”, or 100 sq. feet of coverage. 
Asphalt shingles weigh 210 lb. per 
square, and cost about $9 per square. 
Roll roofing is cheaper, depending on 
the quality. 

Roofs using 2x4 rafters, 1 inch 
sheathing and 210 lb. asphalt shingles 
cost about 25c per square foot; with 
roll roofiing, about 20c. 

Some consideration must also be 
given to the following items in a camp 
building: screens for the windows (put 
them on frames and take them off in 
the winter), verandas and steps to 
doors, painting, and hardware. Space 
will not permit their being covered, but 
you must keep these items in mind. 

And now for a final word of caution. 
All the figures quoted herein are only 
applicable to light occupancy camp 
buildings of ordinary size. If you con¬ 
template a larger structure, or run into 
unusual problems, consult a reliable 
authority. 


Toronto, Canada, February, 1951 


13 


Experiences in W inter Camping 

W. E. (Ted) Yard,, 

Director of Camping, Toronto Central Y.M.C.A. 


In December, 1943, inspired possibly 
by an appreciation for the unique log 
cabin community on Hollyburn Ridge, 
the Vancouver Y.M.C.A. sponsored its 
first winter camp for boys. Twenty- 
three boys and seven staff people 
travelled the three-hour trip by ferry, 
bus, and “shanks* pony*’ to the big log 
lodge on top of Hollyburn—thirty-five 
hundred feet above the famed Lion’s 
Gate Bridge! At pre-camp planning 
meetings the boys had decided to call 
their six-day Christmas holiday outing 
“The Skyline Camp for Boys”, and 
“cabin” groups were “highriggers”, 
“sparkchasers”, “whistlcpunks”, and 
“snag fallers”. In keeping with the log¬ 
ging camp theme, leaders were “hook¬ 
ers”, and the director was “the push”. 
Program plans, based on winter sports, 
and on the development of skills in 
outdoor winter living, grew easily— 
almost spontaneously! The memorable 
experiences of this short camp are still 
vivid to staff and campers alike, for ex¬ 
ample, the sight of youngsters tumbling 
downstairs in their mountain top lodge 
to literally gasp at the never-to-be-for¬ 
gotten spectacle of snow-capped, ten- 
thousand-foot Mount Baker, framed, 
ninety miles away, in a flaming sunrise! 

In evaluating that small camping 
project certain values were recognized: 

1. Although the six-day period was 
short, pre-camp meetings provided op¬ 
portunities to get acquainted and to 
develop program plans, both of which 
would have taken valuable time at 
camp. 

2. There were a number of mem¬ 
orable experiences, and every boy 
learned some outdoor skills with which 
he had never before been concerned. 


3. The staff group, working under 
almost ‘ideal” conditions, knew every 
boy well, and became an exceptionally 
close knit working unit. 

4. Winter camp, bringing campers 
and staff together in mid-winter, 
in a relationship otherwise difficult to 
achieve, was later to prove genuinely 
helpful to the organization of the sum¬ 
mer camp. 

Most camping people today see their 
work as an integral part of a total 
educative process, and many feel that 
the unique contribution of the organ¬ 
ized camp in this area lies in the con¬ 
tinual unfolding of the story of the 
out-of-doors, the true heritage of every 
Canadian boy and girl. Generally, of 
course, we will travel the route of the 
canoe, of pack trail, or of summer 
nature path, but sometimes we are re¬ 
minded that snow and ice too are a 
part of this great Canadian heritage— 
and with them, the use of the ski and 
snowshoe, the primitive skills of living 
and travelling in frozen woodlands 
among leafless trees. 

In December, 1950, thirty camp 
people, boys and staff, left Toronto 
Central Y.M.C.A. by bus, for a six-day 
winter holiday at Camp Pinecrest, one 
hundred and twenty-five miles to the 
north. This was the second annual 
Christmas camp at Pinecrest. Here are 
a few of the things that this camp 
experience demonstrated to certain in¬ 
dividual campers: 

Learning how to take care of a wood 
fire is a pretty important thing when 
you depend on it for your sleeping com¬ 
fort. 

Water is a much more valuable com¬ 
modity when pumped from a deep well. 


14 


Canadian Camping 


An open fireplace takes on a new im¬ 
portance after a long day with snow 
and skis. 

The most popular radio program of 
all is tomorrow’s weather forecast! 

The hill we skirted on the summer 
portage, becomes the goal of a winter 
ski jaunt. 

There are new dangers in snow and 
ice, and we must learn the safety rules. 
* * * 

The values we recognize in the An¬ 
nual Pinccrest Winter Camp are almost 
identical to those which emerged from 
the earlier Skyline Camp. 

Eminent authorities, both in our 
country and in the United States, pre¬ 


dict that the ideal of “every child a 
camper” will be achieved only when 
camping becomes a part of the accepted 
school curriculum. Winter camping will 
enter this framework in a consequential 
way only when we develop at least a 
nucleus of trained leadership, and a 
backlog of recorded experience. Small 
winter camps sponsored by agencies, by 
service clubs, by Boy Scouts, and by 
private camps, arc even now creating 
this foundation. 

It was not of a seasonal, but rather 
of a year ’round heritage of the out of 
doors that John Fisher said: “The his¬ 
torian commits it to paper, the states¬ 
man prods, the author reminds, but the 
campers are the keepers” 


-☆- 


So Yon Think 


You 9 re Covered 


M. H. Crone, 

Maryland Casualty Company 


Paying money for insurance is a 
“pain in the neck” until you need it. 
When the occasion arises that you do 
need it, following a catastrophe, there 
is no one any happier than the manager 
of your insurance company when he 
can tell his claimant that he is fully 
covered and will be completely reim¬ 
bursed for his loss or damage. Unfor¬ 
tunately, those engaged in the general 
insurance business have not yet em¬ 
ployed the modern system of hiring 
public relations personnel for the pur¬ 
pose of letting the public know some¬ 
thing about our problems and the 
general sympathetic attitude adopted 
toward the problems of those that pay 
the premiums. 


The purpose of this and succeeding 
articles is to draw your attention, as 
forcibly as possible, to the fact that 
when you purchase a policy of insur¬ 
ance you have purchased a contract 
which agrees to indemnify you for a 
loss sustained from a specified hazard, 
or several hazards. In every policy of 
insurance there also appears the exclu¬ 
sions which detail certain conditions 
under which your insuring company 
will not be called upon to reimburse 
the policyholder if a loss should occur 
because of one or more of the specified 
exclusions. These exclusions are all 
there for good reasons and I am sure 
you will find justification for many of 
these very obvious. 


Toronto , Canada , February , 1951 


15 



Let us examine your fire insurance in 
the first article. Do you realize that 
your policy of fire insurance does not 
allow the following without special 
permission: 

(a) More than one quart of gasoline 
in any building. 

(b) More than five gallons of fuel oil 
in any building. 

(c) The use of stovepipe or unsafe 
chimneys. 

(d) The disposal of ashes in unflam- 
mable containers. 

(e) Continuous vacancy or unoccu¬ 
pancy for more than thirty days. 

A fire, caused by a violation of any 
of the above restrictions, will actually 
void your policy and according to con¬ 
tract your insurance company is not 
compelled to reimburse the policyholder 
for his loss. Now don’t jump off the 
deep end and blast the insurance com¬ 
panies for including these restrictive 
measures in their contract. It is a little 
known fact among laymen that these 
and other conditions must appear in 
your policies because of Provincial 
Statutes known as Insurance Acts. 
Some of these restrictions can be less¬ 
ened or removed altogether, but to 
effect any change your policy must 
specially mention the changes desired 
and this generally entails a slightly 
higher premium charge. 

A few more points should be drawn 
to your attention which could either 
restrict or void your coverage entirely: 

(a) Additional insurance effected 
without permission from all other in¬ 
suring companies covering the same 
property. 

(b) Effecting a mortgage or regis¬ 
tered lien without notifying your in¬ 
surer. 

(c) Change of ownership. 


You can readily see from the above 
remarks that it will pay you dividends 
to know what you are purchasing when 
you buy fire insurance. 

Just a word of advice to camp oper¬ 
ators in particular. Summer camps are 
invariably composed of several build¬ 
ings and there are two methods of 
effecting fire insurance — the specific 
form and the blanket form. Under the 
specific form a separate amount of in¬ 
surance is placed on each building and 
on the contents of each building. Under 
the blanket form it is required that you 
insure up to 90% of your total value 
on buildings and contents, but you in¬ 
sure for one sum over all. Therefore, 
if one building or several buildings are 
destroyed by fire under the blanket 
form you are reimbursed for your full 
loss instead of being limited to a specific 
sum on each building and its contents. 

Now for a word of warning! Building 
and equipment values have increased 
so rapidly the last few years it would be 
advisable for you to obtain the services 
of a competent appraiser to determine 
your present insurable values. It comes 
as a distinct shock to most property 
owners when they find that their pres¬ 
ent insurance would only replace one- 
third of a building, should it be 
destroyed. Ten years ago a building 
that was fully insured for a sum of 
$5,000.00 is now only insured to ap¬ 
proximately 35% of its value. I cannot 
emphasize this point too strongly. 

Space does not permit more than a 
generalization on this subject, but these 
few remarks may be of some assistance 
to you in determining whether or not 
your present fire insurance is written 
correctly and for adequate amounts. 

In succeeding issues the same theme 
will be discussed on other classes of in¬ 
surance coverage which are of import¬ 
ance to the owners and operators of 
summer camps. 


16 


Canadian Camping 


Association Notes 

A meeting of the Board of the Cana¬ 
dian Camping Association was held at 
the Y.W.C.A. in Montreal, on Decem¬ 
ber 10th, 1950. Out-of-town members 
were invited the previous evening to 
view the new headquarters at 771 Bum- 
side Street. Those from Ontario ex¬ 
pressed admiration for the spaciousness 
of the new office and the attractiveness 
of the large windows and furnishings. 

The principal business dealt with 
at the board meeting consisted of a 
co-operative effort to analyse correctly 
and comprehensively the functions of 
all National Committees. 

Those present included: Anne Vail, 
Agnes Mutchler, Dorothy Percival, Dais 
Gass, Nora Bailey, Ruby Smith, Ken¬ 
neth Murray, C. A. Wylie, Roy Locke, 
Sam Freedman, and from Ontario, 
Mary Edgar, Joyce Bertram and C. T. 
Sharpe. 

BIENNIAL NATIONAL AND 
QUEBEC CONFERENCE 

There’s big news from Quebec this 
year. The Canadian Camping Associa¬ 
tion is holding its Biennial National 
Conference in conjunction with the 
1951 Spring Conference of the Quebec 
and Eastern Ontario Association. The 
dates are April 6, 7, and 8th, in 
Montreal, at the Grenadier Guard’s 
Armoury. All Canadian Camping As¬ 
sociation members are invited to attend 
the joint conference, which promises to 
be a landmark in the history of the 
Canadian camping movement. 

Plans for the big event are well 
under way, and the program committee, 
under the chairmanship of Roy D. 
Locke, president of the Quebec Associa¬ 
tion, has already met several times. The 
theme of the conference will be “Out¬ 
door living”, and while details of the 


program are not completely arranged 
at the time of going to press, nor is it 
possible to announce the names of the 
key speakers, it is safe to say that this 
should prove to be a most outstanding 
program on outdoor living. 

A new twist to the program will be 
provided by dividing some of the con¬ 
ference topics into three integrated 
workshops or seminars, following each 
other in logical sequence. It is thus 
hoped to provide those attending the 
conference with a more co-ordinated 
information on campcraft, naturelore 
and handicrafts than could be provided 
in single one-hour sessions. All these 
groups will be led by recognized 
authorities in their respective fields, 
who have had many years of practical 
camp experience. 

There will also be key speakers 
highlighting the conference themes, 
seminars on many topics not mentioned 
above, dinners, sing-songs, outstanding 
commercial exhibits, and ample oppor¬ 
tunity to meet and chat with other 
camp directors. The conference proper 
will take place on Friday evening, April 
6, and all day Saturday, April 7, while 
ithe Annual Meeting of the Canadian 
Camping Association will be held on 
Sunday morning, April 8. 

Canadian Camping Association mem¬ 
bers will receive complete details by 
mail in the near future. It is hoped 
that members from every province will 
be able to attend, and thus make it 
possible to have a truly national con¬ 
ference. The opportunity of meeting 
camping people from right across this 
great Dominion of ours, presents itself 
but rarely, and we extend a warm¬ 
hearted invitation to our fellow camp¬ 
ers in all parts of Canada to join us on 
this historic occasion. 

SAM FREEDMAN, 

Conference Chairman. 


Toronto , Canada, February , 1951 


17 


(Pn 1 nvio So 4* (ion 

Canadas Largest Annual Gathering 
of 

CAMPING PEOPLE 
March 2 and 3 

Once again the long-established An¬ 
nual Conference, sponsored by the 
Ontario Camping Association, will be 
held at the Central Y.W.C.A., 21 
McGill Street, in Toronto, on March 
2nd and 3rd. Outstanding speakers and 
discussion leaders from both Canada 
and the United States will play im¬ 
portant roles in making this one of the 
most stimulating camping conferences 
the O.C.A. has presented. 

Commercial firms, recognizing the 
number of camp directors and man¬ 
agers who attend this affair annually, 
will have a larger representation than 
ever, displaying their commercial ex¬ 
hibits—the very latest in camp equip¬ 
ment and supplies. 

The non-commercial exhibits will be 
of special interest to program people, 
and everyone present is bound to find 
his or her way to the publications’ 
corner, to look over the large assort¬ 
ment of books and pamphlets related 
to all phases of camping work. 

No one will agree with all the state¬ 
ments of our guest speakers; no one will 
be wholly in accord with the findings 
of our discussion groups, but everyone 
will find fellowship, practical help, and 
thought-provoking ideas , at the Central 
Y.W.C.A., Toronto, on March 2nd 
and 3rd. 

Those wishing further information, 
registration material or assistance in 
securing accommodation, should write 
to Miss Joyce Bertram, executive- 
secretary, Ontario Camping Association, 
236 Bloor Street West, Toronto, Ont. 


((nohoc Soot ion 

The Quebec Section of the Canadian 
Camping Association held two meetings 
before Christmas. At the opening meet¬ 
ing in October, we had members from 
various , camps tell us of their summer 
experiences. We heard about a red- 
letter day at one camp, how another 
built a summer program around a cen¬ 
tral theme, religion in camp, how one 
camp endeavoured to encourage demo¬ 
cratic practises, etc. It was an interest¬ 
ing meeting and particularly effective 
since a number took part. 

At our November meeting, Mr. Sam 
Vatcher of the Y.M.C.A., spoke on 
Indian camp fire ceremonies. Mr. 
Vateller’s presentation provoked con¬ 
siderable discussion and questions. A 
sing-song and refreshments, plus Mr. 
Vatcher’s talk, made it a good evening. 

In December, when a Board Meeting 
of the Canadian Camping Association 
was held in Montreal, the Quebec Sec¬ 
tion were delighted to entertain at 
luncheon, members from Toronto and 
Montreal. 



18 


Canadian Camping 



The Editor Comments 

Definitions of camping are many and 
varied. From a collection of them, the 
following are submitted for your cogi¬ 
tation. The first comes from an article 
in a recent issue of Saturday Evening 
Post. “Camping — a warm-weather 
bivouac which absorbs the energies, 
bewilderment, affection and devilment 
of some half - million jet - propelled 
youngsters every vacation time.” 

From the pen of the well-known 
writer, Angelo Patri, comes the follow¬ 
ing: “Camp is a bit of life in the open, 
where children are to gather educa¬ 
tional experiences from nature; a place 
where they may listen to the silence of 
the stars and perhaps hear God speak. 
A place where they may catch His whis¬ 
per in the still forest, and see His hand 
in the faint traceries of a wild flower’s 
petal. Make sure it is like that, and the 
uniform won’t matter.” 

From Dr. Mary L. Northway’s 
“Canadian Camping — Its Foundation 
and Its Future”: “If camping is to con¬ 
tinue its development in the future we, 
the camping people, must believe in it. 
It is our child, so attractive, so interest¬ 
ing that many people want to claim it 
as their own. Camping is not school, 
though it is educational; camping is not 
case work, though it is concerned with 
the welfare of the individual. Camping 
is not a physical fitness program, 
although it is concerned with develop¬ 
ing well-being and enjoyment through 
sports and athletics. Nor is camping 
psychiatry or psychotherapy, although 
it may well resolve the conflicts and 
anxieties of children and give them 
practice in the fundamentals of psycho¬ 
logical health. No, camping calls on all 
those institutions and uses their assets 
in its program. It also contributes its 
unique resources to their efforts. Camp¬ 
ing can give so many new insights to 
education and social work. We see chil¬ 
dren as campers and come to under¬ 


stand them differently than the teacher 
or the psychiatrist. These insights it is 
our duty to pass on to the more formal 
fields of child guidance.” 

In the constitution of the Canadian 
Camping Association, its first object is 
stated as being: “To further the in¬ 
terests and welfare of children, youth 
and adults through camping as an edu¬ 
cative, character-building and construc¬ 
tive recreational experience.” 

“The man who plants a tree be¬ 
comes a partner with God in the 
creative act , for we cannot build 
trees , we can only preside at the 
mystery of their growth” 

LETTERS 
to the Editor 

An Additional Safeguard 

It has been brought to my atten¬ 
tion by the Canadian Red Cross Society 
that there are reports of children who 
have either been drowned or have had 
near drowning eccidents which have 
later been proved to be due to peculiari¬ 
ties or illness in these children. I won¬ 
der, therefore, if you would be good 
enough to give space in your editorial 
pages to the following recommendations 
to camp directors. First of all, it is im¬ 
portant that all medical certificates for 
campers should include a question re¬ 
lating to the presence in the child of 
the following conditions which might 
be associated with extra hazards as far 
as swimming is concerned; allergies such 
as asthma and hay fever, chronic bron¬ 
chitis, heart conditions of any kind, 
epilepsy, fits, fainting spells, nervous¬ 
ness and excitability. A specific ques¬ 
tion should be inserted in the medical 
report for the attention of both the 


Toronto , Canada , February , 1951 


19 



parent and the physician, asking the 
following question: “Is there any known 
reason why this child should have more 
than ordinary supervision during swim¬ 
ming?” 

I trust that camps of all kinds are 
aware of the necessity of obtaining as 
much information regarding the pre¬ 
vious health of the child as possible 
in order that proper precautions can 
be taken for safeguarding the health of 
campers during the time that they are 
at the camp. 

Thanking you. 

Yours sincerely, 

J. H. EBBS, M.D. 

Dr. J. H. Ebbs, M.R.C.P. (Lond.), 
F.R.G.P. (C)— Staff, The Hospital for 
Sick Children, Toronto, is chairman of 
the Health and Safety Committee of 
the Canadian Camping Association. 

RE THE PROBLEM OF 
FOOD-PARCELS 

Please consider the enclosed letter for 
publication in Canadian Camping. I 
am in complete agreement with the 
statement made by Dr. Butler and hope 
that Camp Directors in this country will 
seriously consider the curtailment of 
candies, chocolate bars, chewing gum 
and soft drinks, both in camp and at 
sources of supply available to campers. 

Not only should those parents, who 
send supplies of sweets to campers dur¬ 
ing the summer be requested to discon¬ 
tinue this practice, but those parents 
who do conscientiously try to establish 
good health practices with their chil¬ 
dren, should be given support. Perhaps 
this should be a subject for discussion 
at a future meeting or conference of 
camping people. 

Thanking you. 

Yours sincerely, 

J. H. EBBS, M.D. 


DENTAL DANGERS AT CAMP 
Dear Dr. Ebbs: 

It has been our experience that many 
children are permitted the excessive use 
of sweets during their stay at summer 
camps. In many cases these children 
have well regulated diets throughout 
the year in their homes and, as you 
know, the consumption of excess sweets 
is contrary to today’s health teachings. 
The period during which the children 
are at camp is sufficient time for dental 
decay to begin. Also a habit can be 
formed which cannot easily be broken, 
thus hindering the efforts of those 
endeavouring to teach better health 
habits. 

The dental profession is greatly con¬ 
cerned about this matter and we feel 
that immediate steps must be taken to 
eliminate, if possible, or, at least greatly 
reduce, the excess sugar consumption. 

The dental conditions of our children 
today are alarming and it is our sincere 
hope that our educational program will 
make parents more conscious of their 
responsibility to their children and also 
make them fully realize the seriousness 
of the problem with which they are 
faced. 

Anything you can do to assist in 
solving this problem will be greatly 
appreciated. 

Yours very truly, 

R. R. BUTLER, Chairman, 
Dental Public Health Committee. 


For Your 

CAMP BAKERY SUPPLIES 

CANADA BREAD 

224 Davenport Rd. - Toronto, Ont. 

Shipments Prepaid to AH 
Ontario Points 

“The Quality Goes in Before 
the Name Goes On" 


20 


Canadian Camping 




Book Beviews 

GAMES AND PARTIES THE YEAR 
ROUND: by Nellie M. Lewis; Ryer- 
son Press, Toronto; pp. 144; price, 
$1.75. 

The many young people enrolled last 
spring in the Counselor Training 
Course of the Ontario Camping Asso¬ 
ciation, will remember that outstanding 
evening when Nellie Lewis took charge 
of games and stunts. On the staff of 
the Ontario Religious Education Coun¬ 
cil, Miss Lewis has had wide experience 
in the field of recreation and is in con¬ 
stant demand for leadership in recrea¬ 
tional courses and with group programs. 

Her book contains a wealth of usable 
material for parties, playgrounds, camps 
and communities. There are hundreds 
of active games, quiet games and sing¬ 
ing games, as well as stunts, contests, 
puzzles and tricks, all of which have 
been used successfully many times by 
the writer. They have been collected, 
discovered and originated over a period 
of years, for “scrap-book-itis” has been 
one of her hobbies, and she says, “the 
hall mark of a good leader is to be 
ever-ready with a game when one is 
called for or needed.” This book will 
be a most practical addition to a select 
library of books for camp. To quote 
again: “A leader is a person with a 
magnet in his heart, and a compass in 
his head.” 

CAMP CATERING: by the Hilde¬ 
brands; Ryerson Press, Toronto: pp. 
102; price, $2.25. 

The sub-title of this book suggests its 
unique purpose: “How to rustle grub 
for hikers, campers, mountaineers, pack¬ 
ers, canoeists, hunters, fishermen and 
skiers.” With this specialized purpose 
in view, it is a cook book for “the hardy 
appetites and healthy hankerings of all 
who must prepare their food in the 
camper’s kitchen.” Being of such a 
nature, one finds information on equip¬ 
ment, fires, recipes and many practical 
suggestions for hunters and fishermen 



Avoid the Rush . . . 

Make a date to attend the 
195 1 

Ontario Camping 
Association 

CONFERENCE 

March 2 and 3 

Y.W.C.A., TORONTO 

— ★ — 

SPEAKERS 

Joshua Lieberman, author of "Creative 
Camping", Director of Camp Robin¬ 
son Crusoe. 

Fay Welch, Faculty Member, New 
York School of Forestry, and a 
Private Camp Director. 

. . . and our own 

Professor Charles E. Hendry. 

— ★ — 

ONTARIO CAMPING 

ASSOCIATION 

236 BLOOR ST. WEST, TORONTO 


Toronto , Canada, February , 1951 


21 






on game cookery—suggestions gathered 
from hardy old-timers who have learned 
their lore from a life time of experience. 

The book is humorous and the 
cartoon illustrations are most amusing. 
“The life in the open will give you 
abundant appetite; may this little book 
help you to its abundant satisfaction.” 


“C.G.I.T. GAMP MANUAL”: The 
whole camp fraternity will welcome 
this. It is a complete revision of its 
forerunner, plus much notable new 
material; a composite production, the 
work of their National Camp Com¬ 
mittee, with very special help from 
Miss Margaret Govan. Published 
1950 by Publications Committee, 
Department of Christian Education, 
Canadian Council of Churches. 
Obtainable from any Provincial Edu¬ 
cation Council, or from Department 
of Christian Education, 299 Queen 
Street West, Toronto 2B, Ontario. 
Price, $1.25. 

An excellent handbook; intensely in¬ 
teresting, practical and readable; fine 
paper, attractively arranged and illus¬ 
trated, good appearance, inexpensive. 
It is in harmony with the soundest 
theories and finest philosophy of camp¬ 
ing. Well organized, and just crowded 
with answers to the host of problems, 
small and large, that crop up in every 
branch and aspect of every type of 
camp. Applicable and useful to camps 
varying in length from a week-end to 
the whole summer. Ninety per cent, or 
more of its material might have been 
written for boys’ or private camps, 
though prepared especially for girls and 
non-profit camps. Large-expense ideas 
are conspicuous by their absence. 

The complete contents of the book 
proclaim it to be the head, heart and 
handiwork of fine-spirited contributors 
with a wealth of ideas born of long and 
practical experience. It’s a book that 
every staff member, from junior coun¬ 
selor through food-service staff and 


handyman, to director, and all camp- 
committee people will read with inter¬ 
est, stimulation and profit. An amazing 
amount of very varied and most prac¬ 
tical help is presented in a minimum 
space and for a modest price. A book 
that will give anyone associated with a 
camp in any capacity a fine apprecia¬ 
tion of her (his) individual contribu¬ 
tion, and how it can fit into the attrac¬ 
tive mosaic that a well-conducted camp 
is. 

There, arc eighty-seven 5*4 by Sc¬ 
inch pages presenting twenty-four chap¬ 
ters, plus an index of one hundred camp 
topics, plus four hundred page-refer¬ 
ences to individual sub-topics. They 
embrace such items as: new and young 
camps, promotion, job analyses for com¬ 
mittees and individuals, mass games, 
rainy-day ideas, religious observance, 
sound common-sense about discipline, 
programme, song-leading, and a very 
valuable section on unclassified odds- 
and-ends; indeed, this book has every¬ 
thing. A dollar and a quarter of camp- 
book money can’t be better invested 
than in this one. A short bibliography 
follows each chapter. 

—C. T. S. 


WINTER SCOUTING: by F. E. L. 
Coombs; 39 pp., illustrated. The 
Canadian General Council, Boy Scouts 
Association, Ottawa; 1950; price, 25 
cents. 

Here’s a basic “how to do it” booklet 
that any boy (and many “grown-ups”) 
would be pleased to study before mak¬ 
ing a winter hike or camping trip. 

Data covers different types of foot¬ 
wear, sleeping bags, ski and snowshoe 
travel, weather hints, winter first aid, 
living off the country, loading the 
toboggan, how to keep warm, what to 
take, what to cook, etc. Excellent pen 
and ink illustrations. 

—R. H. M. 


22 


Canadian Camping 




' 


WE ARE PROUD TO PRESENT . 


A new addition to the *“MAPLEX” Tableware line! The first 
and only Melmac Cream and Sugar Set in Canada! 


. . . endorsed by many leading camps in Canada and United States, 
MAPLEX Tableware offers you . . . 


Maple Leaf Plastics Ltd. 

703 BLOOR STREET WEST TORONTO, CANADA 

Telephone LLoydbrook 3143 
★ ★ ★ 

*TRADE NAME REG. 


MARKED reduction in loss from 
breakage even under inexperienced 
handling. 


CHIP PROOF, heat resisting, non- 
porous, sanitary. 


Improved Soup or Cereal Bowls — 


WON’T STICK WHEN STACKED. 


Toronto , Canada , February , 1951 


23 





QUEBEC welcomes you . . . 

to the 


NATIONAL . . . QUEBEC 
Camping Conference 

Sponsored by the Quebec Camping Association 
and the Canadian Camping Association 
with the Active Participation of the Eastern Ontario Association 


MONTREAL, APRIL 6, 7 and 8 

Grenadier Guards' Armoury 


PROGRAM HIGHLIGHTS 


"Cap'n Bill" Vinal: Professor of Nature Education, University of Massa¬ 
chusetts, outstanding lecturer, author, traveller, and 
authority on Nature-lore. 

Dr. Carter Storr: Co-author of THE CANOE AND YOU, well known for 
his cartoon-illustrated talks; will lead workshops on 
campcraft. 


Dr. Taylor Statten, Jr.: Child Psychiatrist, Children's Memorial Hospital, 
Montreal, and member of a famous Canadian Camping 
family. 

Miss Betty Jaques: Art Instructor, Macdonald College, a leading exponent 
of creative Art, will lead workshops on handicrafts in 
camp. 

Mrs. Alice Turnham: Assistant Curator, Redpath Museum, McGill Univer¬ 
sity, an outstanding personality in the field of 
Nature-lore. 


ALL C.C.A. MEMBERS WILL RECEIVE COMPLETE 
INFORMATION BY MAIL 


For further information, write: 

The Canadian Camping Association, 
Room 211, 771 Burnside Street, 
Montreal, Quebec. 


24 


Canadian Camping 









J__ \_ 

TRADING 

POST 


CAMPS AND CONSERVATION 

For some time past, we have consid¬ 
ered new ways by which camps might 
aid in forest conservation and protec¬ 
tion, and we have thought that a very 
effective medium might be through a 
campaign of postal seals somewhat of 
the nature of the T.B. Christmas seals. 
If a small, suitable design and slogan, 
such as “Keep Canada Green”, were 
incorporated on the seal, and if it could 
be arranged that all camp and camper 
mail could bear one of these, the result 
might be very effective. 

The Canadian Forestry Association 
has plates for five different stamps in 
full colours, about 1^2 x 2 Ys inches, 
which they supply in sheets of 100 (20 
of each stamp). Each stamp portrays 
an outdoor scene with a suitable slogan. 
The stamps are, to some extent, in short 
supply at present, but it is understood 
that the Canadian Forestry Association 
would re-issue them if the interest war¬ 
ranted, at about 20 cents per sheet of 
100 stamps, or one-fifth of a cent per 
stamp. 

It would help if some idea could be 
formed as to how many might be used. 
Two thousand might be a fair figure 
for our camp, and if camp directors in 
general were interested, numbers might 
run to at least fifty thousand, perhaps 
more. 

If any move were contemplated for 
the coming season, it would be neces¬ 
sary for the editor to know the reaction 
of camp directors as soon as possible. 

C. H. IRWIN, Director, 
Sherwood Forest Camp. 


Depend on PARENTS’ MAGAZINE to produce 
more enrollments for your camp every year..^ 


Most camps do! 

In- fact, more camps advertise in PARENT'S 
MAGAZINE than in any other leading consumer 
magazine. 

Mothers and fathers 

. . . depend on PARENTS' MAGAZINE for guidance 
in selection of camps for their children. 

That's why your ad in PARENTS' MAGAZINE is 
sure to be read by more than 1,250,000 families 
with well over 2,500,000 children — your besf 
enrollment prospects. 

What's more: 

PARENTS’ MAGAZINE offers the lowest rate per 
thousand families with children among all leading 
consumer magazines in the camp field. 

PARENTS’ MAGAZINE offers nearly 100% no-waste 
circulation in families with children . . . reaches 
MORE of your prospects for every dollar spent. 
All other magazines reach an average of 50% 
families WITHOUT children. 

For rates and details, write to: 

JOSEPHINE CHRENKO, Dir. School & Camp Dept. 

PARENTS’ MAGAZINE 

52 Vanderbilt Avenue 
New York 17, N.Y. 




BELL 


RIIMFRET 




Crockery 

Cutlery 

Glassware 

Kitchen Equipment and Utensils 
Silverware 

Soda Fountain Supplies 
Plastic Tableware 


Bell, Rinfret & Co. 

LIMITED 

366 Notre Dame St. West 

MONTREAL, QUE. 
PLateau 9751 


Toronto, Canada, February, 1951 


25 




PLASTIC TABLE WARE 


HOBART 

FOOD MACHINES 


MEAT CHOPPERS 
MIXERS 

POTATO PEELERS 
FOOD SLICERS 
POWER MEAT SAWS 
"STEAKMAKERS” 

DISH AND GLASS WASHERS 
FOOD CUTTERS 


Hobart Manufacturing 

Co. Limited 

175 George Street, Toronto, Ontario 
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT CANADA 


MYERS & COUCH LTD. 

2482 Dufferin Street 

REdfern 4257 Toronto, Ontario 

Distributors of 

Beardmore Dehydrated Foods 
Schwartz Peanut Butter 
Downyflake Baking Mixes 
Boontonware (Melmac) Dishes 
Sunfilled Fruit Juices 
E. D. Smith Products 


Camp directors who have switched 
from porcelain or crockery table ware 
to plastic ware seem unanimous in their 
estimate of its superiority for camp use. 
Loss through breakage is almost elimi¬ 
nated; there is practically none of the 
noisy clatter of heavy-duty crockery. 
There is less of the excessive weight for 
the kitchen staff to handle and there is 
a color appeal which seems to make 
food even more appetizing to eager 
campers. 

In the experimental stage, some of 
us tried a light-weight, cheap variety 
of plastic ware which proved most un¬ 
satisfactory. However, we have been 
using for several seasons a line of table 
ware bearing the trade name Maplex, 
molded of Melmac (advertised in this 
issue). This product, we find, will 
withstand abuse to a considerably 
greater degree than any previously used, 
and it is also available in many attrac¬ 
tive colors. 

The staining of cups when tea or 
coffee is used, has been greatly reduced 
by proper cleaning techniques; in fact, 
it can be completely eliminated by a 
new detergent—trial-size cans of which 
are available from the Maple Leaf 
Plastics Limited. 

—M. S. E. 


FOR CAMPING SATISFACTION 




BOATS & CANOES 


J * Inquiries invited on: 

Paddles. Aqua Skis, Aqua Boards, etc. 

THE PETERBOROUGH CANOE COMPANY LIMITED 

PETERBOROUGH ONTARIO CANADA 


26 


Canadian Camping 


A “CORKING” GOOD STUNT 

It is really much better than any 
mere statement of how to do it would 
suggest. Useful as an observation and 
participation stunt for large or small 
groups. 

Place an ordinary cork, about the 
size of a thimble (or even a thimble 
itself, if unbreakable) on the outer edge 
of a table, large end down. Ask some¬ 
one to approach the table, following a 
line that runs parallel to the edge of 
the table on which the cork rests. As 
the person passes the cork he must 
attempt to dislodge it by flicking it with 
his right forefinger, in the same manner 
as if shooting in crokinole. The knuckle 
must be up (towards the ceiling) as the 
“shot” is made. And the flicking must 
be done by holding the tip of the fore¬ 
finger with the thumb until the moment 
of “shooting”. 

Require each person to start from a 
spot at least ten paces from the cork, 
to proceed at a brisk walking pace, and 
not to vary the speed until after the 
“shot” has been made. If the space is 
limited, and placing the table in the 
middle of one side of the room does 
not provide enough walking distance, 
then move the table much nearer to one 
side of the room than the other, as it 
does not matter how few paces follow 
the actual shot at the cork. Have the 
participants walk from the side that 
keeps their right side to the cork. 

If it is desired to add an additional 
degree of difficulty (though the fore¬ 
going will be found hard enough— 
just try it!) then put the cork on top 
of a spool, and require that it be dis¬ 
lodged without moving the spool. Stage 
the stunt where all present can enjoy 
each other’s attempt. 

Just two iron-clad rules: 1. Walk at 
a brisk and unvaried pace from a spot 
at least ten paces from the cork—the 
further the walk the poorer the results; 
and 2. Hold the forefinger with the 
thumb, and have the knuckle up when 
the shot is made. Sounds easy, but just 
try it! 

—G. T. S. 



A HIGHMGHT 



You can capture the true spirit of camp life 
if your counsellors and camp directors wear 
these Sportsman Moccasins 


. . And campers will enjoy their holiday 

more in this comfortable and typical north 
woods footwear. > 

- ★ - 

They are iust the thing for boating, canoeing— 
camp activities of all kinds. Made from heavy 
bull hide leather, they will last for years. 

- ★ - 

Sportsman Moccasins are obtainable in two 
styles—with and without soles. Everything to 
make them comes in a kit. Nothing else to 
buy. Leather is pre-cut for perfect style. 
You simply lace sections together. 

- ★ - 

SPORTSMAN MOCCASINS 

in natural grain bull bide leather 

Brown $2.85 

Colour $2.98 

SPORTSMAN MOCCASINS 

with sole and lift at heel. Sole is made 
of famous long lasting waterproof 
Dura-Bull sole leather. 

Brown $3.85 

Colour $3.98 

Special Discounts for camps on 
purchases of 25 pairs or more 


Consult Us . . . 

for all your Craft needs 

Watch for News of Our 
Annual Camp Sale 


Jjetut* SufijtftM limited 

8 Bathurst Street 
Toronto, Ontario 

645 Yonge Street 425 Graham Avenue 

Toronto, Ontario Winnipeg, Manitoba 


Toronto, Canada, February, 1951 


27 




CAMPING MAGAZINE, 705 Park Avenue, Plainfield, N.J. 

Please enter my subscription as checked below. 

□ One year for $3.25 □ Payment enclosed 

□ Two years for $5.50 □ Please bill me 

Name . 

CC251 

Street and No. 

City .-. Zone. Province. 

Use a separate sheet to enter additional subscriptions for your staff 


You Can Be More Successful 


In Camping! 


The secret lies in always keeping up to date 
with the latest ideas in organized camping. 


In the Magazine . . . 

Eight issues every year 
— as much usable 
material as in a 350- 
page book! 

In the Handbook . . . 

More than 100 pages 
of charts, tables, 
diagrams; answers to 
hundreds of questions. 


Your camp was built on ideas. Its continued 
success depends on new ideas you obtain and 
use in the future. The best way to keep 
abreast of latest camping developments, say 
thousands of successful camping people, is 
by regularly reading the up-to-the-minute, 
authoritative articles which appear each 
month in the magazines serving camps. 

Alert camp directors and their staffs read 
about tried and proved ideas in the latest 
CAMPING MAGAZINE and THE CAMP 
DIRECTOR'S HANDBOOK AND BUYING 
GUIDE. They know the danger of static 
thinking and obsolete ideas. You, too, will 
find these publications a never-ending 
source of new, usable ideas. 

Here's News! Now you can have BOTH the 
CAMPING MAGAZINE and THE CAMP 
DIRECTOR'S HANDBOOK, for the subscrip¬ 
tion price of the magazine alone. Think of 
the help you'll find, of how the added 
knowledge gained will aid you to be more 
successful in camping. Fill in and mail the 
handy coupon NOW, so we can send you 
your first, fact-packed issue right away. 


28 


Canadian Camping 









In Utjhier Vein 

Once there was a camper— 

(Or, at least; she hoped to be!) 
While her friends recounted talcs of 
camp, 

She listened eagerly. 

Her mother sadly shook her head 
“We’d miss our only child, 

We’d worry if we sent you 

To those regions rough and wild.” 

“But mother dear,” she pleaded, 

“I’m sure you just forget, 

You could watch me every minute 
On your television set.” 

“Oh!—You couldn’t get reception? 

Then try the other kind— 

A mental television, 

On the screen within your mind.” 

—M. S.E. 

New Camper: “Does the water 
always come through the tent roof like 
this?” 

Old Camper: “Nope! Only when it 
rains!” 

As you ramble on through life, brother; 
Whatever be your goal; 

Keep your eye upon the doughnut 
And not upon the hole! 


Best Wishes . . . 

to our many friends, the 

CAMP DIRECTORS 

from 

DANIEL E. KERT 
★ ★ 

KERT MANUFACTURING 

COMPANY LIMITED 

"THE HOUSE OF CLEANLINESS" 

Rlverdale 3539 

500 GREENWOOD AVE., TORONTO 


MORE FUN IN THE WATER 

Eidola Jean Bourgaize 
Over 400 splashingly good games, stunts,, 
contests, pageants, and party ideas for 
beginners, swimmers, non-swimmers . . . 
and parents who want to teach their 
youngsters how to swim. By a scouting 
leader, this book is for everybody who 
likes the water. $2.50 

CAMP FIRE AND 
COUNCIL RING PROGRAMS 

Allan A. Macfarlan 

An internationally known authority on 
children’s games, campcraft, natural his¬ 
tory, and Red Indians, puts never before 
published, hard to find material into this 
book for all camps and young people’s 
groups. This is an authentic, colorful, 
simple guide for all leaders. $3.30 

GAMES FOR BOYS AND GIRLS 

E. O. Harbin 

In this book, written by the author of the 
famous ‘Fun Encyclopedia” and new 
“Gay Parties”, are several hundred an¬ 
swers to the often-asked question, “What 
shall we play now?” Games, noisy and 
quiet for outdoors and indoors. $2.50 cloth 

Publication date March 12 $1.75 paper 

Order from your Bookstore, or 

G. R. WELCH COMPANY 

LIMITED 

1149 King St. W., Toronto 1, Ont. 


SEPTIC TOILETS 

for 

CAMPS AND COTTAGES 

A septic system without 
chemical, running water 
or hydro 

^ Among our many satisfied camp 
customers are: 

GLEN BERNARD CAMP 
TAYLOR STATTEN CAMPS 
CAMP TEMAGAMI 
CAMP KEEWAYDIN 
Y.M.C.A. CAMPS 


Caustic Sanitation 

LIMITED 

21 Ridley Blvd. 

TORONTO, ONTARIO - HUdson 7722 
Head Office: Dundas, Ontario 


Toronto, Canada, February, 1951 


29 





OUR FRIENDS 


Lewis Craft Suppies Ltd. 

27 

The Advertisers . . . 


Maple Leaf Plastics Co. Ltd. 

Myers & Couch Ltd. 

CG LC 
Of Of 

Bell, Rinfret & Company, Ltd . 

25 

New York Herald Tribune . 

4 

Camping Magazine . 

28 

Ontario Camping Association. 

21 

Canada Bread Co. Ltd. 

20 

Parents’ Magazine . 

25 

J. J. Cash (Can.) Ltd. 

4 

Peterborough Canoe Co. Ltd. 

26 

Caustic Sanitation Ltd. 

29 

Quebec Camping Association . 

24 

T. Eaton Co. Ltd. 

3 

R. Simpson Co. Ltd. Back Co 

ver 

Gibbons Quickset Desserts.. Inside Co 

ver 

Stafford Industries Ltd. 

6 

S. Gum pert Co. 

4 

J. J. Taylor. 

30 

Hobart Manufacturing Co. Ltd. 

26 

Vermont Accident Insurance Co. 

31 

Kcrt Manufacturing Co. Ltd. 

29 

G. R. Welch Co. Ltd. 

29 


Please mention "CANADIAN CAMPING" when contacting advertisers. 


Classified Advertising Rates: 

Five cents a word, minimum two dollars. All classified advertising payable 
in advance. Address all correspondence to “Canadian Camping”, i70 Bloor 
Street West, Toronto. Ontario. 



t h e 

famous 

A C K R O Y D 
DINGHIES 

are built exclusively 
by the builders of 

TAYLOR 

CRAFT 

Canada's Leading 
CRUISERS 
and 

SAILBOATS 


J. J. TAYLOR & SONS LIMITED 

on the Western Channel - TORONTO 


30 


Canadian Camping 






























HAVE THE BEST 


CAMPERS’ INSURANCE 


MEDICAL REIMBURSEMENT 
ACCIDENTAL DEATH 
TUITION REFUND 
EPIDEMIC 
POLIO 

We wrote the first of this coverage 
ever written in 1937. During the 
ensuing years, hundreds of thousands 
of camping children have been insured 
by us in the States, Canada, Hawaii 


and Europe. 


BEST IN COVERAGE - BEST IN SERVICE 



THE SIGN OF 
GOOD SERVICE 


VERMONT ACCIDENT INSURANCE CO. 

RUTLAND, VERMONT, U.S.A. 






everything for CAMPS, Lodges and Summer Hotels 


SPECIAL CONTRACT DIVISION 

TORONTO (Head Office) 


EDMONTON 

VANCOUVER 


HALIFAX 

CALGARY 


LONDON 

WINNIPEG 


MONTREAL 

REGINA 


Others please direct communications 
specifially to your nearest branch 
of the Special Contract Division. 


Ontario orders ask for: Mr. F. A 
Hardman, Trinity 9111, Local 531 t 
Simpson’s - Toronto 




































