*33 



ft 


i /\ n i a wi v ° L 36 ’ n ° 4 

^1 WINTER 1985 


OFFICIAL PUBLICATION L'ASSOCIATION DES 
OF THE CANADIAN CAMPS DU CANADA - 

CAMPING ASSOCIATION PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 


4 


















LETTERS TO 
THE EDITOR 

100 years ago, land was set aside for public use 
near Banff, Alberta and this act marks the foun¬ 
dation of the magnificent National Parks system 
which we enjoy today. 1985 has been designated 
Heritage Year to mark this event and to celebrate 
100 years of heritage conservation of both 
natural and manmade sites. 

Campers and their staff must be in the front 
rank of Canadians who have a direct concern 
for the conservation of natural resources. Many 
have also become interested in manmade heri¬ 
tage sites found on their own camp sites, or 
discovered while hiking or tripping. 

The National Parks Centennial Citizens’ Com¬ 
mittee (NPCCC) was appointed by the Minister 
of the Environment with a representative from 
each province and territory, to encourage strong 
public interest and involvement in heritage con¬ 
servation. This will complement the centennial 
activities being planned by Parks Canada at its 
parks and sites. 

Joyce Lewis 
Project Officer 


I really enjoyed all the articles and attention 
given to “fitness and health” in the last issue. 
There is a lot of content we can use in our 
camps as we commence program planning for 
the summer. Thank you! 

Katie Elmer 
Schomberg, Ontario 


ALTA R. KAHN 
Honorary President 
Quebec Camping Association 

On Thursday, March 7,1985, the camping move¬ 
ment in Canada lost a devoted and dedicated 
member, with the passing of Alta R. Kahn, 
Honorary President of the Quebec Camping 
Association. 

Alta Kahn began her camping career with the 
Q.C.A. in 1946, and immediately became an 
active member. Fully realizing the herculean 
task confronting the Association, she put her 
stout heart and her imaginative soul into every 
undertaking. As far back as 1958 she was 
chairman of The Joint Quebec Camping Assoc¬ 
iation Conference. Her foresight and adven¬ 
turesome spirit soon gave a new dimension to 
the Camping Conference. During her tenure as 
Conference Chairman, Mrs. Kahn courageously 
suggested that the Quebec Camping Associa¬ 
tion celebrate its “coming of age”, holding for 
the first time, its Conference in a hotel. Success 
accompanied her all the way! 

From 1959-1960, when inspection of camps 
and accreditation were in the pioneer stage, 
Mrs. Kahn acted as co-chairman of the Q.CA. 
Standards Committee. In the ensuing years, her 
tireless energy and unusual ability to solve 
problems were responsible for considerable 
progress in Q.C.A. camp standards. Thirteen 
years later, as Co-chairman of the Standards 
Committee of the Q.C A-A.C.Q. Provincial Board, 
Mrs. Kahn was still working diligently to see 
standards improve and accreditation have the 
greatest significance possible. 


From 1960-1962, Alta Kann was President ot 
the English section of the Quebec Camping 
Association. During this term of office she was a 
major contributor to the realization of the found¬ 
ing of the Provincial Board (co-ordinating board 
of the English and French sections) and served 
as the Board’s second President from 1963 to 
1965. It was through Mrs. Kahn’s efforts that the 
Quebec Camping Association finally secured 
its Provincial charter in 1961. She always de¬ 
voted her keen mind to bettering any cause 
involving education, camping and progress. 

From 1946-1969, Mrs. Kahn served as the 
Executive Secretary of the Jewish Community 
Camps of Montreal, comprising Camp B’nai 
Brith, Jewish Laurentian Fresh Air Camp, and 
Wooden Acres. During her years in this position, 
Mrs. Kahn instituted many new projects includ¬ 
ing the first pre-camp training programs for 
staff. Whether planning programs or working 
with camps, her energies showed no limitations. 

On May 23,1973, with deep pride and great 
pleasure, the members of the Quebec Camping 
Association, English section, appointed Mrs. 
Alta R. Kahn as the first Honorary President in 
the history of the Association. The contribution 
she made to the camping movement in Quebec 
will always inspire those who continue to work 
with the community of camping. 

To those of us who knew her well, we will 
always cherish the privilege of working with her 
and the memory of her devotion to camping. 

Frances Kelly 
Robert Lazanik 


CONTENTS 


Winter 1985 


Vol. 36, No. 4 

5 Dear CCA Member Camps 

by Jean Funk 

8 Celebrate Canada’s Heritage 
by Heritage Canada 


6 The Camping Advisor 
by Jay Haddad 

14 The Counsellor, Camper and Director 
by Jane McCutcheon 


Cover Photo: Jay Haddad 


Layout Assistant: Marjorie Booth 


Editorial Policy 

Jay Haddad, Editor 


The ideas expressed in the Editorial are those of 
the Editorial Committee and not necessarily 
those of the Canadian Camping Association/ 
Association des Camps du Canada. The views 
are expressed to provide stimulation and com¬ 
ment. We invite you to respond in “Letters to the 
Editor" to Canadian Camping, 1806 Avenue Rd., 
Suite 2, Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1. 


Canadian Camping is an official publication of the Canadian Camping Association/Association des 
Camps du Canada. Canadian Camping (ISSN 008-3119) is published quarterly. CCA/ACC member¬ 
ship includes a subscription; non-member subscriptions in Canada $6.00 a year or $15.00- 3 years. 
Send address changes to CCA/ACC, 1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1. 
Material in Canadian Camping may not be reproduced in any form, without written permission of the 
editor. Copyright 1984 Canadian Camping Association/Association des Camps du Canada. 


2 






EDITORIAL 

CCA - IN TRANSITION 


by: Jocelyn Palm, President 

This is International Youth Year. The CCA is an 
organization which touches the lives of some 
400,000 campers. Approximately 11,000 of these 
campers come from outside Canada. Member 
camps of CCA employ over 38,000 paid staff and 
involve over 16,000 volunteer staff. Within these 
numbers, an intelligent estimate is that 80% fall 
into the “Youth” category of 13-24 years of age. 
Suddenly in 1985, our ability to fund the organ¬ 
ization we need to continue CCA is question¬ 
able. What a sad fact in this International Youth 
Year! 

Our Association must develop some new 
plans, and drastically revise some previous 
plans, in order to move forward. Each of you 
who cares about the national camping move¬ 
ment in Canada will need to get involved. 

Let me explain the background. For over 10 
years, we have enjoyed significant financial 
support through Fitness and Amateur Sport, 
Government of Canada. We now relate to Fitness 
Canada. These funds have allowed the CCA to 
accomplish many things. The provision of funds 
through which we established a national office 
with paid secretarial staff and a permanent 
address was a major step forward in 1971. Prior 
to that time, the CCA office resided in the home 
of the elected President The stability of a per¬ 
manent location permitted many more volun¬ 
teers to become involved and to contribute to 
developments across the country. Fortunately, 
the Ontario Camping Association allowed CCA 
to share in renting of their office space, which is 
an ideal arrangement for the CCA. In 1979, 
Fitness Canada provided funds in order that 
CCA could employ a full-time Executive Director. 
Marjorie Booth fulfilled this role until October 
1984. 

The Federal Government also provided funds 
for travel and accommodation at Executive and 
Board Meetings. For the first time, volunteers 
did not have to provide for their own expenses. 
As a result, representation improved and volun¬ 
teer involvement mushroomed. 

Further, Fitness Canada financial support 
assisted in funding many, many special projects. 
CCA on numerous occasions sent leaders from 
one province to assist in another. Canoe schools 
were born and later became projects within 
each provincial association. In fact, the new 
independent Canadian Recreational Canoeing 
Association was an outgrowth of CCA with an 
initial board of CCA personnel. CRCA now run 
programs in recreational canoeing. Woodsman- 
ship Schools developed leaders for each prov¬ 
ince. A series of Skill School s in various physical 


activities have been held. Wilderness Travel 
programs are still in place and winter Outdoor 
Skills Schools are still offered in some prov¬ 
inces. Truly national committees were estab¬ 
lished in standards, education, leadership devel¬ 
opment and public relations and promotion. In 
fact, two national promotion workshops were 
held. 

Because of the support and enthusiasm and 
inter-communication inspired by these items, 
additional efforts emerged. The CCA publica¬ 
tions committee got seriously into business 
with, I might say, lots of help from friends in the 
American Camping Association. The need for 
adequate archives became more prominent and 
many volunteers worked to establish the CCA 
Archives at Trent University in Peterborough. 
National Conferences were held in 72,73,75, 
78 with the tremendous highlight in 1983 of the 
first International Camping Congress. 

In 1982, the CCA Board took a serious look at 
our future funding situation. We recognized that 
the Federal Government supported all our major 
undertakings and that we should work towards 
a revision of this situation. The results were: a 
hefty increase in CCA fees paid through the 
provincial associations; a stepping up of book 
sales; and CCA published some of its own 
books and realized considerable income which 
continues to be the case. We approached foun¬ 
dations for support and were thrilled when 
Neathern Trust granted $10,000 for specified 
projects. Corporations have also been ap¬ 
proached for support of specific ventures. 

We were making headway... 

In October 1984, the CCA began searching for 
an individual to replace Marjorie Booth. Since 
the position was supported by Fitness Canada, 
permission is required prior to selecting the 
replacement. At the end of November we were 
advised by the Director of Fitness Canada, Mr. 
Michel Bedard, that Fitness Canada would no 
longer provide funds for the position. In addition, 
Mr. Bedard advised that support of all manage¬ 
ment aspects, re travel for meetings, office func¬ 
tions, administrative assistance, would be re¬ 
duced each year by 33-1/3% to terminate 
completely in 1988. 

It won’t come as a surprise to some that the 
Federal Government has taken this position in 
view of funding cutbacks in other areas. I 
personally find it very difficult to rationalize this 
decision. The CCA surely fits within the Fitness 
Canada mandate which is as follows: 

1. To increase the motivation of each and every 

Canadian to participate in physical activity for 


fitness. 

2. To stimulate the availability and accessibility 
of programs to facilitate increased participa¬ 
tion in physical activity. 

3. To improve the physical, social and economic 
climate so as to encourage greater participa¬ 
tion. 

Well, I don't believe for an instant that we 
should fold our tents! But I do believe there’s a 
need for a totally new look to our Association. 

In March 1985, we engaged a professional in 
organization management to help us in our 
assessment of where we are and where we 
might redirect our path. The Consultant group is 
headed by Mr. John Fisher. Many of you will 
meet him as he travels across the country to talk 
to camping people and prepare his report of 
suggestions and recommendations. 

The first CCA Board review of that report will 
take place in Regina at the April 25-26,1985 
Board Meeting and AGM. Can you already 
guess some of the suggestions which will be 
discussed around the table? Shall we return to 
the methods of the CCA pioneer camp directors 
of the ’30s, ’40s, '50s and ’60s? Shall we with¬ 
draw from some or all of the national initiatives 
that we have begun? I think the youth will be the 
poorer if we abdicate our responsibilities. I think 
we have to find ways to achieve in spite of this 
current difficulty. I am convinced that camp 
leaders are better leaders as a result of CCA 
events which provide sharing of information, 
growth in leadership capabilities and profes¬ 
sional development. If the leaders are better, 
then the camp experience is enhanced for those 
400,000 campers. 

This is the background, the story continues 
as we desire it. 


3 


EDITORIAL 

L'ACC - EN PLEINE TRANSITION 


par Le president, Jocelyn Palm, 

Nous avons proclanrte 1985 I’Annee Internatio¬ 
nale de la Jeunesse. L’ACC rejoint quelque 
400000 campeurs. Environ 11000 de ceux-ci 
viennent de I’exferieur du Canada. Les camp 
membres de I’ACC emploient plus de 38000 
personnes k salaire et plus de 16000 travailleurs 
benevoles. De ce nombre, on peut ptedire de 
fagon assez precise que 80% sont des jeunes 
entre 13 et 24 ans. Et voile qu’en 1985 notre 
capacite a pouvoir financer (’organisation dont 
nous avons besoin pour diriger I’ACC est mise 
en question. Triste situation en cette An nee 
Internationale de la Jeunesse! 

Pour aller de I’avant, notre association doit 
adopter de nouvelles lignes d’action et reviser 
ses prec6dentes. Quiconque parmi vous s’in- 
teresse au mouvement national des camps du 
Canada devra y mettre du sien. 

Permettez-moi de vous exposer I’historique 
de I’ACC. Depuis 10 ans, elle jouit d’un appui 
financier important de la part de Condition 
physique et Sport amateur, Gouvernement du 
Canada, appete maintenant Condition physique 
Canada. Ces fonds nous ont permis d’accomplir 
nombre de choses, notamment la creation en 
1971 d’un bureau central avec un personnel 
administratif salarie. C'etait un grand pas. Jus- 
que-ie, la maison du president elu servait de 
quartier general e I’ACC. Le fait d’avoir une 
adresse permanente a incite un plus grand 
nombre de volontaires e s’interesser k notre 
organisme et a favorise son expansion partout 
au pays. Nous avions le vent dans le dos. 
L’Association des Camps de I’Ontario a bien 
voulu partager ses locaux avec I’ACC ce qui ne 
pouvait lui convenir mieux. En 1979, Condition 
physique Canada a fourni les fonds pour per- 
mettre a I’ACC d’embaucher un directeur admi¬ 
nistratif k plein temps. Mme Marjorie Booth a 
rempli ce rdle jusqu’en octobre 1984. 

Le gouvernement federal nous a aussi pro- 
cute les fonds voulus pour payer les frais de 
deplacement et de logement des dirigeants qui 
assistaient aux teunions du conseil et des mem¬ 
bres de I’ex6cutif. Enfin, les volontaires n’avaient 
plus k s’occuper de ces depenses. II s’en est 
suivi une meilleure representation et une plus 
grande participation des volontaires. 

Par la suite, Condition physique Canada nous 
a ptete son aide dans la mise en marche de 
nouveaux projets. A nombre d’occasions, I’ACC 
a pu envoyer des reptesentants d’une province 
pteter main forte a ceux dans une autre. Nous 
avons mis en place des cours de canots qui, 
plus tard, ont figute au programme de chaque 
association provinciate. En fait, la nouvelie 
Association canadienne de canotage tecteatif 


dont le premier conseil d’administration se 
composait de membres de I’ACC, est nee de 
I’ACC. Des cours sur la survie dans les grands 
bois ont permis de former des animateurs dans 
chaque province. De nombreux cours d’adresse 
ont 6te mis sur pied dans difterentes disciplines 
sportives. Des programmes sur les voyages 
dans la nature sont toujours en place et des 
programmes sur les activites en plein air I’hiver 
existent encore dans certaines provinces. Nous 
avons etabli des comites nationaux sur les 
normes, {’education, le leadership, les relations 
publiques et promotionnelles. En fait, nous 
avons tenu deux ateliers k PSchelle nationale 
sur les relations publiques et promotionnelles. 

L’appui que ces programmes ont regu, Pen- 
thousiasme qui s'en est degag6 et les commu¬ 
nications qu’ils ont permis d’etablir nous ont 
encourage k intensifier nos efforts. Aussi, le 
comite des publications de PACC a-t-il mis 
sSrieusement la mise k la p£te avec I’aide, je 
dois dire, de nombreux amis de PAssociation 
des Camps des Etats-Unit. Le besoin de se 
doter d’un bon systeme d’archives s’est fait 
davantage sentir et nombre de volontaires ont 
mis ce systeme au point k Puniversite de Trent k 
Peterborough. Des conferences nationales ont 
efe tenues en 72,73,75 et 78 et bien entendu, 
nous ne saurions passer sous silence notre 
premier congtes international des camps en 
1983. 

En 1982, le conseil de PACC a repense aux 
moyens d’action qu’il devrait prendre pour 
obtenir des fonds. Nous n’oubliions pas que le 
gouvernement federal avait finance nos entre- 
prises majeures jusqu-la et que nous devions 
songer a une autre solution. En consequence, 
PACC a augmente considerablement la cotisa- 
tion des associations provinciates et a pousse 
la vente des livres. D’ailleurs, PACC a publie 
quelques livres elle-meme qui ont rapporte et 
continuent de rapporter beaucoup. Nous avons 
contacte des institutions pour obtenir des sub¬ 
ventions et avons ete fort emballes quand la 
Neathern Trust nous a accord^ 10000 $ pour 
des projets precis. Nous nous sommes £gale- 
ment tounrtes du cote des corporations pour 
obtenir de Paide visant des projets ptecis. 

Nous progressions... 

En octobre 1984, PACC devait trouver quel- 
qu’un pour remplacer Marjorie Booth. Comme 
c’est Condition physique Canada qui finance ce 
poste, nous devions obtenir son apporbation 
avant d’entreprendre tout demarche. A la fin de 
novembre, M. Michel Bedard, directeur de Con¬ 
dition physique Canada nous a infornrfe que son 
ministere ne financerait plus ce poste. II a ajoufe 


que I’appui accorde pour des e-cdtes tels que 
les voyages et reunions d’affaires serait teduit 
de 33-1 /3% chaque ann6e pour nous etre retite 
entierement en 1988. 

Rien de ttes surprenant k cela puisque le 
gouvernement federal a adopfe comme ligne de 
conduite de teduire les subventions dans dif- 
ferents secteurs. II m’est cependant difficile de 
concevoir une raison logique k tout cela en ce 
qui nousconcerne. L’ACC tepond tout k fait aux 
criferes de Condition physique Canada qui sont: 

1. D’accrottre la motivation de chaque canadien 
pour qu’il participe k des activites physiques. 

2. De stimuler la disponibilite et I’acces k des 
programmes visant k faciliter la participation 
aux activites physiques. 

3. D'ameliorer les climats physique, social et 
economique afin d'encourager une plus 
grande participation. 

Aussi, je ne crois pas un instant que nous 
devions plier bagage. Je crois cependant que 
nous devons envisager la situation de I’ACC 
sous un angle nouveau. 

En mars 1985, nous avons embaucfte un 
expert de la gestion sysfematique qui nous 
aidera k nous situer et k nour diriger dans la 
bonne direction. L’equipe d’experts est dirigee 
par M. John Fisher. Nombre d’entre vous le 
rencontreront dans ses deplacements partout 
au pays ou il parlera aux dirigeants des camps 
et formulera des suggestions et recommanda- 
tions. 

Le premier examen de son rapport aura lieu k 
Regina les 25 et 26 avril lors de la teunion du 
conseil d’administration et de I’assembfee gene¬ 
rate anuelle de 1985. Pouvez-vous deviner de 
quels sujets nous discuterons autour de la 
table? Devons-nous retourner aux rrtethodes 
des pionniers des ann£es 30, 40, 50 et 60? 
Devons-nous abandonner certaines ou toutes 
les iniatives entreprises k I’echelle nationale? Si 
nous abdiquons nos responsabilifes, ce sont 
les jeunes qui en souffriront le plus je crois. Je 
penseque nous devons trouver des moyens de 
teussir en depit des probfemes qui nous acca- 
blent. Je suis convaincu que les leaders des 
camps ont acquis une plus grande competence 
gtece aux activites auxquelles il ont participe 
car ils ont eu acces k un meilleur echange 
d’informations et ont pu acquerir de meilleurs 
qualites de chefs et une attitude plus profes- 
sionnelle. Si les chefs sont mieux nantis ce sont 
les quelques 400000 campeurs dont nous nous 
occupons qui en retirent une experience plus 
enrichissante. 

Voife une belle page d’histoireterminee. Nous 
en ecrirons une autre, selon ce que nous 
entendons faire. 


4 


DEAR CCA MEMBER CAMPS, 

by: Jean Funk, Environment Committee Chairperson 


This summer you received the Canadian Camp¬ 
ing Association Environmental Ethic, and the 
accompanying sheet “We, the campers and 

staff of Camp-” 

This winter, I hope you will plan a special 
program or project that will involve both your 
campers and staff in understanding how this 
Ethic applies to your Camp. Upon completion of 
your program or project (s), we encourage you 
to have all participating campers and staff sign 

the “We, the campers and staff of Camp-" 

sheet and post it in a visible place, near the 
Ethic Statement, at your camp. 

• Do a program identified by your campers and 
staff. 

• 1985 is International Youth Year - Adopt an 
environmental theme for your winter and 
spring 1985 camp reunion. Apply the IYY 
theme of participation, development and 
peace to your reunion with a unique environ¬ 
mental program or project. 

• Host a special clean-up campaign for your 
camp - or your camp's neighbours. Perhaps 
you can adopt a stream, a series of out-trip 
sites, a roadway, or another area and help it 
become or remain clean and in good repair. 

• Incorporate a conservation program into your 
camp. Water, light, heating, waste recycling 
and transportation conservation programs 
provide skills and knowledge to campers and 
staff - and savings for you. 

• Reclaim that place that’s become an eyesore 
at your camp. Consult knowledgeable people 
to plan and implement your project 

• Help your camp's forest. Teach planting, thin¬ 
ning and pruning skills to your campers and 
staff. Plan for the campers of 2085, by planting 
trees this year. Contact your provincial forest 
services for tips on planting techniques and 
to locate seedlings. 

• Encourage wildlife to visit your camp - do a 
habitat improvement project. Build a nest box 
trail, improve moose and deer habitat and 
consider a winter bird feeding program. 

• Examine your camp's environmental prac¬ 
tices. Where does your waste water go? What 
garbage can you reuse, reduce, or recycle? 
How can you improve your environmental 
practices this year? Plan these into your 
1985-86 building and site improvement pro¬ 
gram. 

• What attitudes do your campers and staff 
develop about the environment at your camp? 
How can you help them to live the CCA 
Environmental Ethic all year round? 

• Yourself. How are you striving to learn and 
live in a manner in which you responsibly use 
the earth’s resources? What one new step 
will you take this year? 

Pick your project(s) and program(s). In 1985, 
the International Ydar of Youth, let’s encourage 
all campers and staff to develop responsible 
environmental attitudes and actions in their 
process of lifelong learning. 



Canadian Camping Association 

Environmental Ethic 


WHEREAS we as members of CCA recognize: 

■ the finiteness of the earth's natural resources 

■ the sensitive dynamic balance which exists among ail living organisms and the non-living 
elements 

■ the moral and ethical responsibility of each person to care for the earth, both nowand for future 
generations. 

IW? therefore ask all members to consider and subscribe to the following statement. 

STATEMENT 

I pledge myself to promote an ecologically sound quality of life for all. 

■ My personal commitment is to strive to team and live in a manner in which I use responsibly 
the earth's resources. 

■ My professional commitment is to design, develop, operate and maintain all programs, sites and 
facilities in amecologically sound manner. 

RECOGNIZING the potential long term impact of my attitudes and actions on both the earth and all 

people with whom l have contact and 

RECOGNIZING the multi-faceted nature of organized camping, I shall strive: 

■ to promote an aesthetic appreciation of our natural environment. 

■ to promote an appreciation of the rights and responsibilities of all people in our social, physical 
and economic involvement with the environment. 

■ to promote responsible environmental attitudes and actions as a continous lifelong process 

■ to promote the learning of the essentia! concepts of ecology and their relationship to the 
management of our natural resources. 

■ to promote the wise use of our natural heritage - woods, water, wildlife, air and soils. 


5 



THE CAMPING ADVISOR 


At our camp, losing weight is a constant topic of 
conversation and argument over what methods 
work more effectively than others. Would you 
address this issue? 

J.S., Don Mills, Ontario 

Let's allow Fitness and Amateur Sport to speak 
to the issue; they publish an excellent question 
and answer guide on all aspects of fitness. They 
say: 

1) How can I tell if I'm overweight? 

Be careful not to confuse a heavy body weight 
due to a large bone structure or well-developed 
muscles, with a heavy body weight caused by 
excess fat. Height-weight charts can be mis¬ 
leading, so many doctors say that a mirror is still 
the best indicator of whether or not you have 
excess fat. 

There is no physiological reason for gaining 
weight as you get older, so if you were happy 
with your appearance and weight in your twen¬ 
ties, that should be your "ideal” weight later on 
as well. 

Some health clubs and fitness programs offer 
fitness testing which includes a fairly accurate 
estimate of percentage body fat. If you are very 
interested in this aspect, it may be worth your 
while to search out an agency in your community 
which offers this service. One rough estimate of 
over-fatness is to pinch the fat folds at your 
waist and abdomen - if you can pull away an 
inch or more of fat from the muscle, chances are 
you have excess body fat. 

2) How can I get rid of flab on my thighs? 

(or abdomen , etc.) 

Simply exercising one area of the body exces¬ 
sively will not necessarily reduce the fatty tissue 
in that specific area. When you do any type of 
exercise, you burn up calories, and thus the fat 
deposits will be depleted from the areas where 
they are unnecessary. However, you cannot 
control which deposits diminish first, since 
there must be an overall reduction in body fat 
through caloric expenditure. Spot reduction is a 
popular misconception. 

By exercising a specific part of the body (eg. 
thighs) you can improve the muscle tone con¬ 
siderably, which will increase the firmness of the 
muscle and enhance appearance. 

3) I have been exercising regularly for 3 

months and have not lost any weight. 

Why is this? 

By exercising regularly, you have been building 
up muscle tissue as the strength of your muscles 
increases, and since muscle weighs more than 
fat, this has compensated for the fat you prob¬ 
ably have been losing. The density of your 
muscle fibres has been increasing with the 
exercise, but since this is difficult to measure, 
the easiest way to tell if you have been losing fat 
is to measure your waist circumference regular¬ 
ly. This area usually shows the most dramatic 
decrease in fat deposits. 

4) If I exercise more, won’t this increase my 

appetite and just make me eat more? 

Initially, you may notice an increase in appetite, 
but this should be offset by the number of 


calories you bum up in exercise. As your exer¬ 
cise intensity increases, your appetite does not 
increase as much, and thus you can easily 
widen the gap between the number of calories 
ingested in food and the number expended by 
exercise. At the start of an exercise program you 
may even note a slight increase in body weight. 
This is usually not due to increased fat, but 
rather to an increase in muscle mass (which 
weighs more than fat) as a result of the exercises 
for specific muscle groups. 

5) What is the best way to lose weight? 

An important point to remember is that in most 
cases the faster you lose weight, the faster you 
gain it back! The best method is a gradual 
approach - first, calculate your general caloric 
balance by counting your average total number 
of calories taken in per day compared to the 
number expended. Then plan for some reduc¬ 
tion in the number of calories you are ingesting 
daily, and develop a wise and realistic plan for 
increasing the calories burned up. Everyday 
activities such as housework, climbing stairs, 
cycling to work, etc. can be incorporated as part 
of your exercise plan, and supplemented by 
actual calisthenics and aerobic activities such 
as jogging, brisk walking, or swimming. 

If you are serious about losing weight and 
keeping it off, make a commitment to simple 
changes in your daily activities, such as leaving 
out the second before-dinner cocktail, walking 
the dog more often, walking instead of driving to 
the grocery store, and so on. 

6) What kind of diet is best for weight 

reduction? 

A person with a serious weight problem should 
be under a doctor's supervision while dieting. 
For others, a general plan of cutting down on 
calorie intake, coupled with increasing calorie 
output through physical activity, is by far the best 
approach. There is really no need to embark on 
an extremely one-side diet, and in fact, low 
carbohydrate and low protein diets can be 
nutritionally dangerous if followed for too long. 
A good diet for reducing weight can still fulfill all 
the daily adult requirements as outlined in the 
Canada Food Guide. 

"Crash "diets and diet pills may cause serious 
malnutrition, with side-effects such as fatigue, 
dizziness, loss of energy, etc., if used indiscrim¬ 
inately. It is simpler to change your general 
eating habits than to try to diet for the rest of 
your life. 

7) Are gadgets such as inflated belts and 

"sauna" shorts good for losing weight? 

No, since there is no lasting effect. Excessive 
sweating causes a temporary loss of water from 
the tissues in a particular area of the body, and 
may result in a temporary decrease in a mea¬ 
surement such as waist circumference. How¬ 
ever, the normal body processes replace the 
tissue fluid within 48 hours, so there is essen¬ 
tially no change whatsoever in the size of fat 
deposits or in body weight. 

★ ★ * 



Photo courtesy Camp Miakonda 


When and how to intervene in medical or first- 
aid emergencies is a frequent pre-camp topic in 
our camp. Some counsellors have insisted that 
if we intervene on a canoe trip, for example, and 
happen to do something wrong in helping or 
transporting a camper, we could face prosecu¬ 
tion and perhaps be sued by the camper’s 
parents. Can you find out what our limits are as 
counsellors? 

S.B., Toronto 

The Attorney General of Ontario, the Hon. R. Roy 
McMurtry, has issued a statement which is 
probably a useful guideline whether you live in 
Ontario or not. In addressing this issue, his 
office advises in this manner: 

You probably have a natural desire to help 
someone in an emergency. But at times you may 
be afraid of what could happen to you if you stop 
to give help. 

You don't need to worry. 

While no specific "Good Samaritan” status 
exists in Ontario, you can feel confident that if 
you act reasonably in giving emergency assis¬ 
tance you will not be found liable if someone 
later decides to take legal action. 

The law is quite clear: Whether you have 
medical training or not, the courts expect you to 
do only what is reasonable, considering the 
situation and your skills. 

Remember, no one is asking for efforts beyond 
your ability. 

So, it doesn’t hurt to help. 

What the law looks for is a common sense 
approach from anyone who stops to help an¬ 
other in an emergency 

With this in mind, in an emergency medical 
situation, any doctor, nurse or medical person, 
including someone trained in assisting, should 
step forward to help with no real concern for a 
successful lawsuit against them. 


What You Can Do 

• Identify yourself to the injured person. If you 
are a nurse, a doctor or a person trained in 
first aid, say so. 

• If the person is conscious, ask the person if 
he or she wants help. A person has the right 
to refuse assistance and it is unlawful to act 
against the person’s wishes. 

• If a conscious adult or older child willingly 
accepts your help, you have sufficient author¬ 
ity under the circumstances to help. 

• If a young child requires emergency medical 
care and a parent is not available to consent, 
you can provide emergency aid. 

• If the person is unconscious, extend any 
urgent care necessary. 

The law does expect you to be cautious when 
your actions could affect others. You do not 
want to cause more harm than good to the 
person you are trying to help. If the lie of the 
victim is not in danger and you don’t know what 
to do, stay with the victim, if possible, and send 
for help. 

The law also requires that once you have 
accepted responsibility for giving emergency 
assistance to a victim of accident or illness, you 
must continue to give help until another person 
is able to take over- the desirable person being 
one with medical training, of course. The reason 
is that the person initially offering help may have 
discouraged any other potential helper. 

There is no general legal duty to help some¬ 
one in an emergency. However, in a few cases 
people do have a specific legal duty to provide 
assistance. One of the most important is the 
legal duty placed on any person involved in a 
motor vehicle accident. That person must stop 
and give all possible assistance to the persons 
involved. As another example, a lifeguard would 
have a duty to assist a drowning swimmer. 

Give the help you would hope to receive if 
you were in similar circumstances. 



The 

THREE MIHUTE 
WORKOUT 
THATCOULD 
CHANGEYOUR 
LITE. 



(Coupon writing time approximately 3 minutes) 


Yes, I want to Join the PARTICIPaction NETWORK, ‘the club without walls’ and make personal 
fitness happen for me. I want to be part of a nation-wide group dedicated to a healthier more dynamic life. 
As a member, I will receive fitness educational literature, posters and booklets; a two-way communi¬ 
cations channel to the nation's top fitness experts; share in new ideas to achieve ultimate fitness and 
reduce stress; get major discounts on high-quality, fitness education materials; involvement in nation¬ 
wide achievement programs; access to the latest research results from government agencies and 
much more, all for a low annual membership tee of $12.50. 

Please find enclosed my cheque or money order. 

□ Mr. □ Mrs. □ Ms. □ Miss □ Dr. □ None 


Name___ 

City 

Prov. 


Postal r.nrlp 




PARTICIPaction NETWORK 

80 Richmond Street, W., Suits 805, ■ 

Toronto, Ontario 

M5H2A4 PBRnapacnon^ 0 

25*( 


o 

O 







1985 marks the International Year of Youth. This is your special 
year to contribute to your community's heritage development. 


1 Enter the Heritage ’85 
Conservation category 
of the Canada-Wide 
Science Fair. 

2 Organize a history trea¬ 
sure hunt, using clues 
from historic houses, 
plaques, sites and other 
sources or organize a nature 
treasure hunt to find and 
map locations of flora and 
fauna of your area. Remem¬ 
ber to leave things as you 
found them. 


3 Find out what kind of 

wildlife once inhabited 
your local area and 
whether it can be 
re-introduced. 

4 Record the oral history 
of your community on 
audio or video tape) by 
interviewing senior citizens 
and local historians. Include 
readings of historic accounts 
and diaries. Produce a fin¬ 
ished edition for use by the 
community in the library, 
schools or the media. 


3 Compile a nature check¬ 
list of your local area, a 
local ravine, woods or 
even backyard. Compare lists 
with friends. 

6 Have a dress-up day at 
school, where students 
research their own 
family’s past and record 
family trees. 

7 Write a story or do a 
project on the heritage 
of your community. Send 
it to someone else or another 
school in a different part of 
the country If your commun¬ 
ity is twinned, send it there. 


CELEBRATE 

CANADA’S FOR YOUTH 

HERITAGE 


8 


8 Find out about our 
marine and northern 
environments. What are 
they like; how are they 
different; are they being 
threatened? 

9 Research early local 
sporting events and re¬ 
create them in a contest 
atmosphere. Look particular¬ 
ly to traditional sports of 
native people. 

^ Organize a “History 
111 Fair” for your school 
^ or youth group. Ex¬ 
plore why we need a tie to 
the past. Ask a member of 
your local historical group 
to judge the entries. 

n Start a pen-pal club 
in your class; 
describe the heritage 
of your town and send it 
to others in other areas of 
the country 

^ Organize an exhibi- 
I J tion of aspects of 
^ your community 
- past and present - during 
Education Week. Each class 
group or club in school can 
exhibit and invite parents 
and friends in the com¬ 
munity to attend. 

^ ^ Produce an histori- 
I Ak cal atlas of your 

community Use old 
maps, photographs, diary 
accounts and memoirs; these 
are available from your local 
library or archives. 


- / Produce an historic 

| ZL newspaper, reprint- 
ing the reports of 
important and interesting 
things that have happened in 
your community Old news¬ 
papers are available in your 
library or archives. 

— Asa school project, 

| ^ invite each class to 
-A interpret a different 
decade or era of Canada’s 
100 years of heritage. Focus 
on a theme or event to create 
a centennial book, mural, 
skit or play 

^ ^Recreate a day in 
I |\ the life of your com- 
^ munity by looking 
up the old newspapers in 
local archives and then re¬ 
enact these events. 

^g _ Compare the local 
I / natural environment 
/ with various periods 
in the past, using archives, 
oral histories, wildlife and 
bird counts. 

-g Re-enact the sitting 

I in the House of 

Commons the day 
the legislation for Canada’s 
first park was debated and 
passed. (Note: Refer to the 
Rocky Mountain National 
Park Act, 1887). 



I C S 8bror m 1 

pcfrimoino j 

t 1885-1985 ) ! 


-I Make a rubbing of a 
I yJ headstone in a local 
pioneer cemetery 
Tape thin paper to the stone 
and rub a piece of chalk over 
it until the design shows 
through, then spray it with 
hair spray Presto! you’ve 
recorded some history. Be 
sure you have permission to 
enter the cemetery 

y-w Beginning with the 
Jl 1 letter “A” and con- 
“ ” tinuing on with the 
alphabet, how many trees 
and plants can you name? 
How many wild animals? 


^ - Choose a few local 
J I streets which have 
“ been named after 
famous people. Research 
these people and the times 
they lived. 


^ ^ Newspapers are 
J J made from wood; 
^ ^ wood comes from 
trees. If too many of our 
trees are destroyed we will 
have serious problems. Find 
some books that will explain 
this problem and organize a 
paper collection for 
recycling. 

Bring pictures of 
J A yourself and your 
grandparents to 
class. Place the students’ 
pictures on one board, the 
grandparents’on another and 
have a contest to see who 
can match up the most 
pictures correctly 


^ ft 



_ / Draw a totem pole 

7 /l and tell your family 
^ history on it with 
pictures, as native people 
did. 

^ — Write a story from 
J ^ an old building’s 
^ point of view on 

being demolished, or from 
the point of view of a swamp 
which is to be drained. 


FOR INDIVIDUALS 


^ x Write a dialogue 
J r\ between two heri- 
tage buildings in 
your area. Some topics could 
be gossip, new neighbours, 
changes to the area and 
memories of the past. 

— Organize a “Reach 
J / for the Top” compe- 
^ / tition for your school 
or community, based on the 
local natural and historic 
heritage. 


^ Organize a debate 
J V on local heritage 
^ ^ conservation for your 
school or community. 

^ ^ Develop an environ- 
7 (j mentally sensitive 
^ x area inventory and 
map for your local area. 
Criteria and advice about 
what constitutes an environ¬ 
mentally sensitive area are 
available from your local 
conservation authority or 
the nearest office of the pro¬ 
vincial body responsible for 
natural resources. 


b jpry i 



Locate the local 
1 resources of historic 
^ activities and skills 
by visiting your library, 
archives, historic society, or 
a craft person who still prac¬ 
tices his or her trade. Share 
what you find with a friend, 
your fam ily and the local 
media. 

_ . Collect and wear 

>4 | heritage-related but- 
A tons and pins. Try to 
obtain one from each pro¬ 
vince and territory during 
“Heritage ’85”. 

^ ^ Attend a public 
>4 y participation meet- 
^ ing that is related to 
natural or cultural heritage 
in your community 

_ ^ Offer a donation of 
>4 >4 historical or heritage 
books or artifacts to 
your school library or local 
archives. 


sy / Encourage your 
>4 /I local council to 
v/ name the streets 
established in your commu¬ 
nity in 1985 after heritage 
events, people or things. 

sy — Revive a local holi- 
>4 S day or festival. By 
^ researching local 
history, you may discover an 
event that has long since 
disappeared from the social 
scene of your community. 


10 



^ s' Re-enact outdoor 

» Cl activities as 
+s ^ birdwatching,hiking 

and skiing using historic 
methods and equipment. 

Encourage artists, 
A f craft oiganizations 
/ or schools to depict 
the heritage of the local 
area. 


O O Consider 3 dona- 

»f» t * on ’ ^ ec l uest or 
*s ^ bargain-sale of pro¬ 
perty with environmentally 
significant or sensitive areas 
to a conservation organiza¬ 
tion. Several organizations 
have experience in the legal 
aspects involved in doing 
this. 

^ Attend your munici- 

Lj pality’s land-use 
%s s committee meetings 
when an issue involves a 
natural or historic area. 

Make sure that there is a 
local voice for conservation 
at these meetings. 

✓ ^ If you are a share- 
/11 Iholderinacorpora- 
tion that holds land 
with environmentally signifi¬ 
cant, sensitive, or historic 
areas, exercise your voice 
for the proper management 
and protection of these 
resources. 



11 



41 ■ 

localite. 

42 


Participez a la restau- 
ration d’un ouvrage 
historique de votre 


/ ^ Devenez membre d’au 
/I X moinsuneorganisa- 
JL tion nationale, provin- 
ciale ou locale qui s’occupe du 
patrimoine. Parmi les organisa¬ 
tions nationales, onpeut 
mentionner Heritage Canada, 
la Societe pour la conservation 
des sites naturels, 1’Association 
des musees canadiens, la 
Federation canadienne de la 
nature et l’Association des pares 
nationaux et provinciaux 
du Canada. 


/ ^ Adonnez-vous, en 
/I 1985, a des loisirs de 

-I- plein air qui ne por¬ 

tent pas atteinte aux 
ressources: les randonnees 
pedestres, le ski de randonnee, 
la photographic de la nature, le 
canotage, la navigation en 
kayak ou 1’alpinisme. 


/ / Organisez une opera- 

/ I / I tion eclair de net- 
A A toyage d’un pare et 
recyclez la plus grande partie 
possible des rebuts. 


/ ~ Organisez une vente 
/I ^dedebarrasd’objets 
X anciens dont vous 
aurez fait la collecte dans votre 
localite. Les vendeurs pour- 
raient etre costumes. 


/ X Eaites votre arbre 
/1 genealogiqueou 
A VX retracez 1’histoire de 
votre localite. 


✓ — _ Echangez avec une 
/1 / autre localite une 

X / bande video (ou un 
film de 8 mm) ou un album 
sur les valeurs et les proprietes 
historiques de votre milieu. 


48 


Invitez des 
gensavenir 
prendre chez 


vous un repas a la mode 
d’autrefois. Faites-vous aider 
par vos invites, que ce soit 
pour la recherche de recettes 
ou la preparation des mets. 


/ Organisez une recep- 

/1 yi tion oii les invites 
A costumes participe- 

ront a un jeu-questionnaire du 
type “Quelques arpents de 
pieges” qui comprendra 100 
questions sur le patrimoine. 

~ g-y. Visitez, en 1985, le 
1 pare national, provin- 
_X VX cial ou municipal le 
plus pres de chez vous. 


50 


^ ^ Organisez un reseau 
^ T de surveillance de la 
_X X nature dans votre voi- 
sinage pour garder un oeil sur 
ce qu’il advient des zones 
importantes du point de vue 
naturel. 


— Consignez dans un 

^ X journal les evene- 
X ments naturels qui se 

produisent dans votre localite: 
le retour des oiseaux, la fonte 
des neiges, l’apparition de la 
premiere fleur sauvage ou du 
premier animal, etc. Comparez 
les dates d’annee en annee 
pour voir si elles varient ou 


^ s-y Encouragez les gens a 
S A peindre des scenes ou 
X %X a ecrire des messages 
se rapportant au patrimoine 
sur les murs de securite qui 
entourent les chantiers de cons¬ 
truction dans votre ville. 


^ / Si votre entreprise a 

ZL plus de 100 ans, 

X utilisez d’anciennes 
annonces. Reproduisez un 
ancien catalogue. 


mm mi Mettez l’accent sur 
S K revolution historique 
-X _X de votre metier, de 
votre profession ou de vos 
produits. 


x Dans le cadre d’une 
^ |campagne publici- 
_X VX taire, tirez profit des 
aspects culturels et historiques 
de votre region. 


^ Faites mention du 
^ / centenaire du patri- 
_X / moine canadien dans 
le programme de votre confe¬ 
rence ou de votre congres 
annuel en 1985. 



12 



POUR LES ORGANISATIONS 


^ Q Puisez a la petite 

histoire naturelle ou 
—' ^ culturelle de votre 
localite pour produire des 
annonces d’interet public dans 
la presse ecrite et electronique 
de votre region. 

^ Si vous organisez une 
^ activite annuelle 
^ comme une randon- 
nee pedestre ou une journee 
consacree a l’observation des 
oiseaux, songez a y faire parti- 
ciper une autre organisation 
locale. 

X Si votre organisation a 
f^\l 1 dejaprevu pour 1985 
une activite telle 
qu’un salon de rartisanat, un 
salon du foyer; une presenta¬ 
tion de mode ou un pique- 
nique, choisissez comme 
thfcme le patrimoine. 

-g Recherchez les 
I familiesquiontfonde 
votre localite et 
rendez-leur hommage au 
moyen d’une mention ou d’un 
article dans le journal local. 


59 


X Formez un bureau de 

|\ J conferenciers specia- 
^ listes du patrimoine 

auquel pourront faire appel les 
bibliotheques, les ecoles et 
d’autres organisations de votre 
localite. 


Z' Si votre club ou votre 

■ ^ A organisation utilise 
^ 1’environnement natu- 

rel, choisissez l’annee 1985 
pour mettre a jour vos guides 
et vos codes en y indiquant la 
meilleure fafon de reduire au 
minimum les impacts sur 
I’environnement. 


/ Representez la rue 
y\Z\ principale de votre 
^ localite a l’aide de 
croquis, de photographies, de 
modeles et de textes que vous 
pourrez exhiber a c6te de 
photographies, d’oeuvres d’art 
et de descriptions historiques 
au cours d’une exposition 
“Hier et aujourd’hui”. 


^ Rendez hommage aux 
^ centenaires de votre 
^ localite enplantant 
des arbres dans un pare et en 
inscrivant le nom de ces per- 
sonnes sur une plaque, un 
parchemin enlumine ou un 
jete qui seront conserves dans 
unendroit public. 

/ s' Organisez une 
/\rV“joumee du collec- 
VJV/ tionneur” ou tous 
pourront exposer leurs collec¬ 
tions. Cette activite pourrait 
etre tenue dans le cadre d’une 
foire locale, par exemple. 

S' Occupez-vous d’in- 
/ viter des personnes 
^ • agees a parler de leur 
“jeune temps” dans des ecoles, 
des garderies de jour et devant 
les membres d’organisations 
communautaires. 


66 ! 


s „ Organisez une expo- 
V^sition “Metiers et 
Otechniques du passe”, 
avec l’aide d’artisans locaux. 


f r\ Reconnaissez les 
| services importants 

rendus par des 
citoyens de votre localite en 
matiere de protection et de 
conservation du patrimoine 
historique et naturel en leur 
faisant decemer par la munici- 
palite une mention speciale. 

Creez,auseinde 
/II votre association du 
• ^ patrimoine, de votre 
societe historique ou de votre 
club de naturalistes, une sec¬ 
tion de jeunes benevoles en 
vue de souligner l’Annee inter- 
nationale de la Jeunesse. 

-g Presentez une serie 
/ I de films sur le 
' patrimoine dans une 
bibliotheque, une ecole, un 
cinema ou a la television. Vous 
pouvez obtenir des films de ce 
genre en vous adressant a 
l’Office national du film. 

Faites revivre un 
/ / tenement important 
' ou retracez l’itineraire 

d’un explorateur ou d’un 
pionnier. 

Creez une piece 
/ A portantsurle 
/ patrimoine de votre 

localite et demandez a une 
troupe de theatre de la jouer. 
Adressez-vous a votre society 
historique pour obtenir la 
documentation necessaire. 


70 


13 




THE COUNSELLOR, CAMPER 
AND DIRECTOR 


by: Jane McCutcheon 

Somewhere between adolescence and adult¬ 
hood there occurs in human development an 
age which is physically and psychologically im¬ 
possible. It is that unfathomable stage known as 
the camp counsellor - a creature undefined by 
psychologists - misunderstood by camp direc¬ 
tors - worshipped by campers, either admired 
or doubted by parents - and unheard of by the 
rest of society. 

A camp counsellor is a rare combination of 
doctor, lawyer, indian and chief. He is a com¬ 
petent child psychologist with his first-year text¬ 
book as proof. He is an underpaid babysitter 
with neither television nor refrigerator. He is a 
strict disciplinarian with a twinkle in his eye - a 
minister to all faiths with questions about his 
own - he is a referee, coach, teacher and 
advisor. He is the example of manhood in worn- 
out Adidas, a sweatshirt two sizes too large and 
hat two sizes too small. He Is a humorist in a 
crisis, a doctor in an emergency, a song leader 
and an entertainer. He is an idol with his head in 
a cloud of woodsmoke and his feet in the mud. 
He is a comforter in a leaky tent on a cold night - 
and a pal who has just loaned someone his last 
pair of dry socks. He is a teacher of the out-of- 
doors knee deep in poison ivy. 

A counsellor dislikes getting up, waiting in 
line, cabin inspection, and rainy days. He is fond 
of sunbathing, sailing, teaching new games, 
snack, and days off. He is handy for patching up 
broken friendships, bloody noses and torn jeans. 
Good at locating lost bathing suits, fixing paths, 
and running from blackflies - poor at crawling 
out of bed on rainy or sunny mornings, remem¬ 
bering on out-trips to take the salt, and to get to 
bed early. 

A counsellor is a friendly guide in the middle 
of a cold, dark night on the windy trail to the 
cabin or the out-trip kybo. He is a dynamo on a 
day off, and exhausted the next day - but 
recuperated in time for the next day off. 

Who but he can cure homesickness, air out a 
wet bed, play 16 games of pick-up-sticks in 
succession, be a monster in a house of horrors, 
carry two packsacks, speak pig latin in French, 
harvest a garden, cook on an out-trip, sing 48 
camp songs every night, and eat four helpings 
of Sunday dinner? 

A counsellor is expected to repair 10 years of 
damage to Cathy in 10 days, make Jerry into a 
man, rehabilitate Paul, allow John to be an 
individual and help Karen adjust to the group. 
He is expected to lead the most prized posses¬ 
sions of seven adults much older than he. He is 
expected to lead them in fun and adventure... 
even when his head aches... to teach them to 
live in the out-of-doors ... even though he 
spends nine months of the year in Toronto, 
Ottawa or Montreal, to teach indigenous activi¬ 
ties ... when he can’t even spell the word, to 


guide youngsters in social adjustment... when 
he hasn’t even reached legal age, to ensure 
safety and health ... with a sunburned nose, a 
bandaid on his thumb and a blister on his heel. 

For all this he is paid enough to buy the 
second text in psychology, some aspirin, some 
new socks, pay his soft drink bill, and enjoy a 
gourmet meal on a day off. You wonder how he 
can stand the pace and the pressure. You 
wonder if he really knows how much he is 
worth. And somehow, you realize that you can 
never pay him enough when, as he leaves at the 
end of August, he waves goodbye and says, 
“See ya next year.” 

Each of us has in place now, at our camps, a 
group of young counsellors raring to go and 
ready to give. 

To whom will they give? To our campers, of 
course. And who are these campers - these 
children who don't remind us of ourselves at 
their age? Who is this camper? Who is he? Is it a 
she? Are there males and females? How old are 
they? What is the age range? How long is their 
camping session? Are they day campers? Week 
long campers? All summer? Are they physically 
disabled? Are they emotionally disturbed? Are 
they sports-oriented or musically talented? Are 
they underprivileged? Are they wealthy? Are 
they adventurous? 

Let us first remember that each camper is 
unique. Children come in assorted sizes and 
infinite varieties, and there is no such thing as 
an average child. Children are like sponges - 
they absorb all your strength and leave you limp 
- but give them a squeeze and you get it all back. 

Children today are more up-to-date. When 
some school youngsters were asked what they 
would take with them if they were going to be 
marooned on a deserted island, one 11-year-old 
replied "I’d like to have an American Express 
card and another boat". 

Children are smart, A first grader was talking 
about the recent fire in his school “I knew it was 
going to happen” he stated “because we have 
been practising for it all year”. 

Children follow examples. Sometimes you 
can just tell that a youngster is right for a certain 
profession. Young Paul began his sales career 
with a lemonade stand, much like the ones seen 
in every neighbourhood on a hot summer day. 
And that was his problem... the competition was 
fierce ... sales were lagging. He pondered the 
situation and got a brainstorm. "If it works for the 
big guys, it’s got to work for me” he mused. The 
next day, Paul got a hammer and nails and 
began fastening a sign to the front of his 
lemonade stand. The brightly, hand-made letters 
read, "over 11 cups served”. 

Children are inquisitive - one day a small boy 
was taking a walk with his father. As they passed 


an unusual looking truck, he said “What’s that, 
daddy?” “I don’t know” his father said. Then they 
came to a large, old fashioned warehouse. 
“What’s in there daddy?" the little boy asked. "I 
don’t know” his father replied. Then they saw a 
man with a pneumatic drill breaking up the 
pavement "What’s that man doing, daddy?” the 
boy asked. “I don’t know” his father said. After 
they had walked a short way in silence, the little 
boy turned to his father and said, "Daddy, do you 
mind me asking so many questions?” "Of course 
not” said his father. “How else are you going to 
learn anything?" 

Children are quick to catch on - a letter 
written in a childish scrawl came to the post 
office addressed to “God”. A postal employee, 
not knowing exactly what to do with the letter 
opened it and read “Dear God, my name is 
Jimmy. I am six years old. My father is dead and 
my mother is having a hard time raising me and 
my sister. Would you please send us $500.00?” 
The postal employee was touched. He showed 
the letter to his fellow workers and all decided to 
kick in a few dollars each and send it to the 
family. They were able to raise $300. A couple of 
weeks later they received a second letter. The 
boy thanked God but ended with the request 
"The next time would you please deliver the 
money directly to our home? If you send it 
through the post office they deduct $200.” 

The Camp Director or key program person, 
has the tough job. You set the pace, but the real 
action takes place between the counsellor and 
the campers. Therefore, the more we under¬ 
stand ourselves, the more able we are to share 
our beliefs and our commitments with our staff. 
We believe in what we are doing, then the ability 
to translate that message to our staff is a natural 
and easy step. And if each leader accepts the 
responsibility for the quality of camp life, we 
have group harmony. 

So set your pace, show confidence in your 
staff, and be there when they need you. But 
remember, they need to have your blessing, 
also, to go out and do their job, and make 
decisions. Live what you believe, and others will 
see that example, and will want to follow. And 
most of all, wear a smile. One size fits all. 


Jane McCutcheon is the Co-ordinator of Devel¬ 
opment at Camp Tawingo, Huntsville , Ontario. 
This article is excerpted from her keynote ad¬ 
dress at The Camp Directors’ Workshop, Bark 
Lake, Ontario, June, 1984. 


14 



Dispose of camp food 
^ service problems with 

royal Chinet 

disposable plates and bowls 

Strong, attractive Royal CHINET food service products help you ... 

• DISPOSE OF DISHWASHING COSTS 

Cut the expense of installing, maintaining and manning equipment, 
that is used only a few months of the year. 

• DISPOSE OF BREAKAGE 

Save yourself the trouble and expense of buying matching replace¬ 
ments for pieces that crack, chip and shatter. 

• DISPOSE OF FOOD WASTE 

You get exact portion control with Royal CHINET’s wide range of 
sizes in regular and compartmented designs. 

• DISPOSE OF GERM COLLECTORS 

Royal CHINET products are sterilized when manufactured and 
packaged. And there’s never a germ-collecting chip, crack or 
poorly washed dish. 

• DISPOSE OF IRRITATING NOISE 

Disposable service is silent service. Meals are relaxed without the 
clatter and crash of china or metal. 

ENVIRONMENTAL ADVANTAGES, TOO 

All good campers want to protect the environment. Royal CHINET prod¬ 
ucts are manufactured from a renewable resource. What's more, they’re 
biodegradable . .. molded of natural wood fibres that burn readily with 
little smoke. Even if discarded out-of-doors, Royal CHINET quickly de¬ 
composes in the earth. 

Get the full particulars now. Mail this coupon today. 


H ANTSPORT, NOVA SCOTIA, BOP 1PO 

Please provide me with details of the variety and costs of Royal 
CHINET food service products. 

NAME_ 

COMPANY or CAMP_ 

ADDRESS _ 

CITY _PROV. 













Canadian camping association 
association dcs camps da Canada 

suite 2 i806 avenue road 

TORONTO ONTARIO M 5 M 3 Z 1 


VOL. 36, NO. 4 
WINTER 1985 
ISSN 008-3119 


3987 

MR S HRS J. JORGENSON 

HUNTSVILLE ON 
POA 1K 0 


Jeunesse en forme Canada 

un programme de tests de condition physique 
pour les jeunes de 7 a 17 ans 

Pourquoi participer a 
Jeunesse en forme Canada? 



Canada 


• Facile a administrer 

• Minimum d'equipement necessaire 

• Normes de performance nationales 
utilisees a des fins de comparaison 

• Prix 

-excellence (ecusson et certificat), 
ecussons or, argent et bronze 

-carte d’identite format porte- 
monnaie 

-Certificat de participation a 
chacun des groupes qui participe 
au programme 

• Gratuit! 

-le programme, les tests et les prix 
sont tous gratuits 

Vous voulez en savoir davantage? 

• Ecrivez a: Jeunesse en forme Canada 

365-ouest avenue Laurier 
Ottawa (Ontario)' 

K1A0X6 



Canada 


Canada Fitness Award 

a fitness testing program for youth 
7 to 17 years 


Why participate in the 
Canada Fitness Award? 

• Easy to administer 

• Little equipment needed 

• National Performance Standards for 
comparison 

• Awards 

-excellence (crest and certificate), 
gold, silver, bronze crests 
-wallet-size I.D. card 
-Certificate of Participation to each 
youth group using program 

• Free! 

-all program, testing and award 
materials are free of charge 

Want more information? 

• Write to: Canada Fitness Award 

365 Laurier Ave. W. 

Ottawa, Ontario 
K1A 0X6 


■ Gouvernement du Canada Government of Canada I Government of Canada Gouvernement du Canada 

■ ▼ Condition physique et Sport amateur Fitness and Amateur Sport ■ ^ Fitness and Amateur Sport Condition physique et Sport amateur 






