Canadian 

camping 




OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 
L’ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU CANADA — PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 


SUITE 2. 1806 AVENUE ROAD • TORONTO. ONTARIO M5M 3Z1 
TELEPHONE (416) 781-4717 


Vol. 33 No. 2 
April 1981 




Dispose of camp food 
|r service problems with 

ROYAL (Jhtfiet 
disposable plates and bowls 

Strong, attractive Royal CHINET food service products help you ... 

• DISPOSE OF DISHWASHING COSTS 

Cut the expense of installing, maintaining and manning equipment 
that is used only a few months of the year. 

• DISPOSE OF BREAKAGE 

Save yourself the trouble and expense of buying matching replace¬ 
ments for pieces that crack, chip and shatter. 

• DISPOSE OF FOOD WASTE 

You get exact portion control with Royal CHINET’s wide range of 
sizes in regular and compartmented designs. 

• DISPOSE OF GERM COLLECTORS 

Royal CHINET products are sterilized when manufactured and 
packaged. And there’s never a germ-collecting chip, crack or 
poorly washed dish. 

• DISPOSE OF IRRITATING NOISE 

Disposable service is silent service. Meals are relaxed without the 
clatter and crash of china or metal. 

ENVIRONMENTAL ADVANTAGES, TOO 

All good campers want to protect the environment. Royal CHINET prod¬ 
ucts are manufactured from a renewable resource. What's more, they’re 
biodegradable . . . molded of natural wood fibres that burn readily with 
little smoke. Even if discarded out-of-doors, Royal CHINET quickly de¬ 
composes in the earth. 

Get the full particulars now. Mail this coupon today. 


CANADIAN KEYES FIBRE COMPANY LTD. 
HANTSPORT, NOVA SCOTIA 

Please provide me with details of the variety and costs of Royal 
CHINET food service products. 

NAME 

COMPANY or CAMP 

ADDRESS _ A 

m . CITY-PROV- kl 









r*\ 


FIRE SAFETY 


Fires strike suddenly, without warning, taking people by surprise. Statistics 
show that those most affected are young and elderly populations. It is impera¬ 
tive, therefore, that everyone responsible for providing, monitoring or direc¬ 
ting youth camp activities make maximum efforts to prevent fire injuries. 

Fires are a national problem that result in the loss of many lives as well as 
inestimable suffering. Many of these deaths and much of the economic loss are 
due to the unpredictable nature of fires. 

It is important to recognize that fires in forested areas are usually different 
from urban fires. Wooded areas often become dry and a fire, once started, 
quickly destroys everything in its path. Often response time is long since 
sites may be inaccessible to fire fighting apparatus and sufficient water is 
not available. Once a fire gains headway, total destruction can occur. 

These guidelines are provided to outline some potential problems related to 
fire safety. Since these are only guidelines, more detailed infromation on 
particular problems should be sought from national, provincial and local fire 
authorities and national code organizations. 

Safety Officer 

A qualified safety officer should be appointed. This person should be respon¬ 
sible for the immediate development of a fire emergency plan. This fire plan 
should be distributed to each staff member and appropriate sections discussed 
with all campers as soon as possible after arrival. Fire evacuation procedures 
and escape routes should be posted in buildings where appropriate. 

Fire Emergency Plan 

A fire emergency plan for camps 
should provide for the following 
minimum elements: 

1. Communication should be arran¬ 
ged with the nearest fire de¬ 
partment. When telephones are 
provided, a current roster of 
fire departments, physicans, 
hospitals, police and ambu¬ 
lance services in the immedi¬ 
ate area should be posted at 
the telephone. 



lauaRmBBL 



—' Ml 

V PLAN 

1 — 

z -— 

.4 

3 -- 


4- 

- cw 




2. All campers and staff should 
be drilled in the procedure 
contained in the fire emergen¬ 
cy plan. 

3. Fire drills should be held with in the first 24 hours after starting each 
camping session, and frequently thereafter to minimize the danger of panic. 

4. When structures or tents are used for sleeping purposes, procedures should 
be developed to ensure rapid evacuation in the event of an emergency. 


3 



(cont. from page 3) 


5. Fire watches should be established in all buildings sleeping more than 12 
persons and all multi-story buildings, when automatic smoke or fire detec¬ 
tion systems are not provided. 

6. Arrangements for transporting individuals from the camp to emergency fa¬ 
cilities should be included in the plan. 

7. Procedures for sounding fire alarms should be posted prominently in each 
building. 

8. The plan should provide for controlling truck and auto traffic through 
the camp in emergencies. 

The safety officer is also the individual responsible for the weekly safety 
checks of the alarm systems and the fire safety inspection in the camp. The 
safety officer must also ensure that all firefighting equipment is in place. 

CAMP POLICIES FOR FIRE SAFETY 


Each camp should have its own written policy governing the use of flammable 
fuels, the building and extinguishing of fires, and the use of smoking ma¬ 
terials. These policies should be provided to each camper and the camp staff 
should strive for rigid enforcement. 

Minimal items that should be included in this policy are those related to: 
1. Smoking in the woods, bed or buildings. 

Proper storage of combustibles and flammables. 


2 . 

3. 


5. 


6 . 


Guidance for proper location, building and extinguishing of cooking and 
camp fires. 

Prohibition of fires, heaters, lanterns, liquid fuel stoves or other 
flame sources in or near tents. 

The proper storage of fuels for, and procedures to refuel tractors, mowers 
and motor boats. No smoking should be permitted during these operations. 

Gasoline, kerosene and other flammable liquids should be prominently and 

distinctly marked or labeled for easy identification. 
Each camp should have a separate storage areas for 

flammable or combustible fuels and materials that 
are in excess of quantities needed for im¬ 
mediate use in occupied 
areas. Safe practices 
for the storage, 
dispensing of 
fuels and dis¬ 
posal of un¬ 
necessary ma¬ 
terials should 
be followed. 



(cont. on 
page 10) 



GREAT SPIRIT MAKE ME 


0 Great Spirit, whose voice i hear in the winds, 
whose breath gives life to the world, hear me. 

I am small and weak. 

I need your strength and your wisdom. 

May I walk in beauty. 

Make my eyes ever hold the red and purple sunset. 

Make my hands respect the things you have made and 
my ears sharp to hear your voice. 

Make me wise so that I may know the things you have 

taught your children, 

the lessons you have hidden in every leaf and rock. 

Make me strong not to be superior to my brothers 
but to be able to fight my greatest enemy... myself. 

Make me every ready to come to you with straight eyes, 
so that when life fades as the fading sunset, 
my spirit will come to you without shame. 

— Translated from the Sioux — 

************ 

It is the hope of the editorial staff of Canadian Camping that 
during the summer of 1981, those attending C.C.A. camps will be 
helped to be more aware of the earth and how we may all get along 
with one another so that it is a more pleasant place on which to 
live. 




COLD WATER SURVIVAL 


QUESTION: When is a life jacket not a life jacket? 

ANSWER: When the person wearing it dies. 

The above provides a rather grim answer to a childlike riddle, but like many 
others, it in turn triggers a further question. Why do people die in their 
life jackets? In most cases they do not die of shock or fatigue but of cold. 
The body quickly surrenders its heat to the cold Canadian waters and as the 
blood circulates through the heart and brain, these vital organs become im¬ 
paired. The body is an electro-chemical machine and its chemical reactions 
are slowed by cold. A slowing of the brain chemistry can cause unconscious¬ 
ness, and the cooling of the heart can lead to the stat6 of electro-chemical 
anarchy known as fibrillation which, unless it can be checked, leads inevita¬ 
bly to death. 

To date the agencies concerned with water safety have showed a very proper 
concern about drowning and have thus concentrated their efforts on flotation 
by teaching survival techniques and designing reliable P.F.D f s (Personal Flo¬ 
tation Devices). However, if rescue is delayed, flotation alone will not 
save you and the bright crange jacket that kept you afloat will serve only 
as a marker to help in the recovery of your lifeless body. 

In 1971, a.research team at the University of Victoria comprised of Dr, John 
Hayward, Dr. Martin Collis and Dr. John Eckerson began a detailed study of 
the physiological responses of the body to long-term immersion under actual 
ocean conditions. The subjects were monitored much like the astronauts at 
the Houston control centre, so that throughout each immersion, scientists 
had a second picture of the body f s response to cold stress. Additional 
information about cooling was added by a thermography scanning technique to 
highlight the critical areas of heat loss in the body during immersion. It 
had already been discovered that one cooled more slowly holding still than 
when swimming and the thermograms provided an explanation why. 

In swimming blood is forced to flow into the large muscles of 
the upper boy, it is cooled as it flows close to the surface. 

As it returns to the heart and deep body areas in the course 
of circulation this cooled blood in turn lowers the core tem¬ 
perature of the body. 

Based on this information a science of cold water survival began to be de¬ 
veloped. 

It was discovered that one’s survival time could be increased by one third 
by merely holding in the water instead of swimming. This meant that in 10° C 
(50° F) water a person who might survive two hours while swimming would have 
a predicted survival time of 2i hours if they held still. As a result of fur¬ 
ther experimentation it was predicted that in 10° C water an average person 
would be able to swim a little less than a mile before being completely inca¬ 
pacitated by cold. 


6 



Treading water 


Drownproofing 


No-HE.L.P 


KELP 


Huddling 






If no P.F.D. is available, some sort of swimming is inevitable. The much pub¬ 
licized drown-proofing technique where the head is lowered slowly down into 
the water and gently raised to breathe (Figure 1) was compared to treading 
water. It was discovered that drown-proofing brought about quicker cooling 
than any other technique yet tried. A tremendous amount of heat can be lost 
from the head, and the cooling rate while drown-proofing was 35% faster than 
while treading water which keeps the head clear of the surface. Comparing 
drown-proofing to holding still in a P.F.D. showed that someone would be able 
to survive nearly twice as long holding still with their head clear of the 
water than by drown-proofing. 


Carrying the research to the next stage it was reasoned that if you could 
somehow protect the critical areas of heat loss then theoretically the cooling 
process would be slowed and survival time would increase. With this in mind 
a position called HELP (Heat Escape Lessening Posture) was developed,(Figure 2) 
for those in the water alone, while the Huddle was proposed for small groups. 
The theory worked out in practice and survival time proved to be nearly four 
hours in 10° C water for each technique which is approximately double the 
survival time of a swimmer. Those techniques are now being adopted by some 
of the major organizations concerned with safety in Canada. 


An aspect of cold water survival which is often overlooked is the rewarming 
technique. If someone is very hypothermic, merely covering them with blankets 
may not be enough to enable them to rewarm themselves. The key to rewarming 
therefore is to provide some external source of heat for the victim. Hot 
drinks, electric blankets and hot water bottles can help when special warming 
aids are not available. 


After more than 500 immersions in temperatures ranging from 4 
University of Victoria make the following suggestions: 


C to 15° C the 


1. Whatever happens try to keep your head clear of the water. 

2. Unless land is with in easy reach, holding still in the water is preferable 
to swimming or other vigorous movement. 

3. The HELP or Huddle procedures can cover areas of high heat loss and lead 
to increased survival time. 

4. If you can get out of the water onto a log or upturned boat, do so, 

5. A P.F.D. is not really a life jacket unless it provides a measure of 

thermal protection, so if you are going to buy something to keep you a- 
float, why not invest in a garment that laso keeps you warm? 

Reprinted in part with permission from TOM TAYLOR CO. limited from an article 
in the autumn 1975 issue of "All About Boating". 





SECURITY and DISASTER at CAMP 


by Professor F.M. Chapman 


One camp brochure is entitled "Treasured Memories" while actual news- 
headlines within the past couple of years have read "Clues Sought in Murder 
of Three Girls" ^ and "Parents Await Second Call for Kidnapped Girl".^ What 
a contrast between the sublime beauty of camping and the frustration of trage¬ 
dy* Some camp directors rebel at the thought that such catastrophic events as 
rape, murder or abduction would ever occur* 

There is no longer room for naivety nor carelessness when it comes to 
securely guiding the camp community. The camp director’s traditional areas 
of preparation have routinely included such topics as business, personnel, 
program and philosophy. The term "security" now presents itself as a fact of 
life. This professional responsibility has been added in recent years under 
the definitions of protection and security. 

Some may say that pessimism prompts predictions of disasters in day camps 
and resident camps. It is more realistic to follow the motto "safety first" 
rather than to glibly assume that accidents and abuses will never happen. The 
optimistic camp operator is also the realistic one. Today’s rise in juvenile 
delinquency and crime unfortunately touches the boundaries and heart of camp¬ 
ing. 


Nine catastophic camp occurences are identified for the watchful camp 
director: 


1. 

Accidents 

4. 

Drowning 

7. 

Rape 

2. 

Asphyxiation 

5. 

Epidemics 

8. 

Storms 

3. 

Bombs 

6. 

Murder 

9. 

Theft 


All of these activities have occured in organized camps at various lo¬ 
cations throughout the United States and Canada. The bomb that exploded in 
a Wisconsin camp with the death of one boy^, and the murders in Oklahoma^ 5 are 
only some of the events that might have been prevented. 


The headlines that follow tragedies provide hard inquiries which liter¬ 
ally capitulate some camps. Rising above "bad publicity" is difficult for 
youth agencies to handle. Of greater importance is how does the camp direc¬ 
tor explain it to the parents or guardians of the lost child. It is at this 
point that one in charge needs to search and seek for gross negligence.^ Being 
"super-cautious" is not such a bad idea in the long run.^ 


1. Union Gospel Mission, Saint Paul, Minnesota. 

2. St. Paul Dispatch , June 14, 1977. 

3. Op. cit., July 2, 1977 

4. "St. Paul Scout Aide Killed, 7 Hurt by Bomb-Explosion", St. Paul Pioneer Press , 
August 20, 1962. 

5. "Probe Continues in 3 Girls 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Deaths", St, Paul Dispatch , June 16, 1977. 

6. Wilkinson, Robert E., Camps, Their Planning and Management , pp.167-173. 

7. Ball, Armand and Beverly, Basic Camp Management , pp. 45-49. 


8 




It is impossible to prevent all intrusions and natural disasters. It 
does make sense to prepare staff on how to handle emergencies. (Canadian Camping 
May 1980 issue) With common sense, confidence, the due concern of a considerate 
parent,8 and protective devices the director can minimize the disaster potential. 

Hurricanes and tornadoes suggest the need to have radios for warning sig¬ 
nals. Weather forecasting as a program activity can aid in a more vigilant 
staff who understand the conditions .capable of brewing up a storm. Many camps 
are known for their "above ground characteristics 11 with limited shelter poten¬ 
tials. A tornado shelter may save a whole camp population is the big wind hits 
broadside.^ Campers who lost their lives in a Minnesota tornado might have been 
saved with proper warning and shelter.^ 

Provincial health departments can be helpful in times of epidemics. One 
camp survived an epidemic of impetigo through fast adherance to sanitary require¬ 
ments. 11 The nurse needs to not only have tender loving care (TLC), but quick 
detection ability when it comes to a spreading disease. 

Some camp directors continue to be naive when it comes to sending groups 
of boys and girls into the wilderness. Watchful adult supervision is helpful 
but not enough when children are sleeping in tents. Walkie-talkies, CB radio 
or telephones are also needed to serve as communication contact with headquar¬ 
ters. One camp installed telephones at locations not too distant from the camp 
office.12 xn most locations it is possible to dial several numerals which ring 
at all extension telephones of the same number. Telephone companies know these 
code numbers. Another camp obtained a hand crank siren from an old fire engine.^ 
This high volume wailing siren is frequently enough to scare off many intruders. 
Many power companies have powerful safety light available for rent as street 
lamps which go on at night and off in the morning automatically. There should 
also be clear understanding as to how law authorities can be called in time of 
need. 14 

Waterfront and camp vehicles seem to be the stimuli for accidents and 
death. Requiring campers to wear P.F.D.s when going boating may not only re¬ 
duce insurance costs,but a id in the saving of lives. Youngsters who are 
driven here and there in cars and trucks by camp staff members are conceivable 
accident victims. The renting of well insured school buses provides a conven¬ 
ient answer to mass transport in the countryside. 

All staff mfembers should have wary eyes beamed to strangers and visitors. 

The need to be watchful and even suspicious serves as a way of checking those 
with questionable motives. Many passers-by are merely tourists and those with 
very innocent plans. This watchfulness by roving eyes will serve as the best 
warning signal of possible mischievousness. 

8. op. cit., Wilkinson, page 168. 

9 Camping Magazine February 1974, p.16 

10. A Church Camp on Lake Roosevelt in Northern Minnesota, 1973 

11. Minnesota Elks Youth Camp 

12. Ibid. 

13. Ibid. 

14. Michigan Dept, of Social Services, Security , Vol. 2, no. 1, March 1979 p.5. 

The Christian Science Monitor , July 16, 1979, "Reflections of Running a 
Camp" (cont. on page 12 ) 


9 



(cont. from page 4) 


Cooking Equipment 

It is very important that all kitchen facilities be designed and installed prop¬ 
erly • Kitchen personnel should be briefed in proper operation of cooking facili¬ 
ties, disposal of fats and waste and measures to follow in the event of a fire. 

Cooking campfires and open flames should not be permitted within 10 feet of any 
tent. When portable stoves are used for cooking, the following safety precautions 
should be observed: 

1. The equipent must be of a approved type. Stoves using kerosene, butane or 
propane are available. Butane and propane are preferable since they are not 
spillable. 

2. Care should be taken to prevent fuel leakage from the portable stove into the 
carrying pack. 

2. The stove should be completely filled with fuel before each use so there is 
no need to refill a hot stove while cooking. 

4. Stoves should never be used inside a tent. 

5. Correct procedures for starting the stove should be carefully followed to pre¬ 
vent personal injury. 

6. Fuel should be placed a safe distance from any heat source. 

Electrical Equipment 

All electrical insallations should be made in conformance with the latest edition 
of the national electrical code. Some safety checks for assuring that electrical 
installations are proper include: 

1. Make certain fuses and circuit breakers are of correct size. Service panels 
should be located in a dry place. 

2. All wiring should be fastened securely to receptacles and fixtures. 

3. All junction boxes,panel boxes, conduit and other concurrent-carrying metal 
parts should be effectively grounded. 

4. Over loaded circuits, as indicated by excessive dimming of lights when other 
applicances are turned on or frequent blowing of fuses, should be augmented 
with additional circuits. Deliberate overloading of a circuit should not be 
permitted. 

5. Flammable or combustible items must never be placed close to electric bulbs. 

6. Extension cords should not be used in lieu of permanent wiring. However, 
when used, extension cords should be of proper gauge wire. Frayed or worn 
cords should be replaced immediately. Cords should never be run under rugs 
or used in a manner that might cause accidental injury. 

7. All electrical equipment should be C.S.A. approved. 

8. Appliances such as irons, toasters, hair dryers and portable heaters should 
be disconnected when not in use. 

9. Outside wires should be checked annually and also after storms for insula¬ 
tion wearing, fraying and loose supports. 




r*\ 


» 

i 






Protective Equipment 

It is good practice to have a smoke detector in all separate sleeping cabins. 

Fire Extinguishers of a class and size determined by the local fire authority 

should be installed throughout the camp. Camp staff should 
be trained in the proper use of these extinguishers. All 
fire extinguishers should be checked weekly during the camp¬ 
ing season for proper charge. 

Water Hose Outlets , when available, should have sufficient garden or other 

hose to reach any part of the structure. One hundred feet 
of hose with an adjustable nozzle is a minimum. The hose 
should be connected and racked in place. It is desirable 
that each building be reachable from at least 2 hose bibbs. 

Backpack Pumps filled with water should be located 
by the door of all large tents such as squad tents 
or administrative tents. Camp staff should be 
trained in the proper use of this equip¬ 
ment. These pumps should also be 
included as standard equipment on 
camp maintenance vehicles or else 
be readily available for loading 
on these vehicles. 

Other Equipment Ladders, shovels 
axes, rakes and other equipment 
should be available, particu- 
arly in remote areas when fire 
department personnel could not 
arrive quickly. The equip¬ 
ment must be kept available 
at all times, but secure 
from campers. 

Actual Fire Emergency 

When a fire is discovered, 
the alarm should be sounded as 
quicly as possible in accordance 
with the camp procedures and the emergency 
plan implemented with all persons carrying out their assigned roles. Plans for 
notifying the nearest fire department by telephone or other communication should 
have previously been established. 

The building should immediately be evacuated, as in the practice fire drills. 
Campers should assemble outside the building in a predetermined area and a roll 
taken. Campers should not be permitted back inside a burning building for any 
reason. Counsellors should only attempt to extinguish the fire if they have had 
fire training and can do so without endangering themselves or others. 

In the event of a forest fire, evacuation plans for campers must be put into 
effect. These evacuation plans should be posted and have been previously dis¬ 
cussed with staff so all members know their assigned roles. 

The above material has been reprinted with the permission of the U.S. Dept, of 
Health, Education and Welfare, Public Health Service, Center for Disease Control 
Atlanta, Georgia 30333. 



11 



SECURITY 


SUPPORT AMATEUR 
SPORT 


r° 


cont. from page 9 ) 

While the security devices found in some 
large surburban homes may not be neces¬ 
sary at camp, a combination of many di¬ 
versified security measures is a good i- 
dea. Such items as dead bolts, alarms, 
control of keys and police liaison add ^ 
to the human element of being watchful. 
Today’s camp director can no longer as¬ 
sume that disaster happens only at the 
other camp. 


14 V »si 




FOR SALE 

DUPLICATOR 

A.B. Dick, Electric - Fluid // 215 
Almost new. 

Please call - (416) 633-7777. 


16. Op. cit. Michigan Dept of Social 
Service, Security , page 2. 

Dr. Chapman formerly directed a day 
camp and two resident camps. He is 
currently teaching the Camp Administra¬ 
tion. Course at the University of 
Minnesota. 

Reference : 

Ball, Armand and Beverly, Basic Camp 
Management , American Camping Associa¬ 
tion, Martinsville, Indiana, 1979. 

Wilkinson, Robert E., Camps, Their 
Planning and Management , C.V. Mosby Co., 
St. Louis, Missouri, 1978. 


NISSEN TRAMPOLINE 

Good Condition. Has had limited 
use in a school program. Suitable 
for camp use. Half Price. 

For further information, contact: 

Shirl Delarue 

Head, Physical Education Department 
Peterborough Collegiate and Voca¬ 
tional School 
McDonnel Street 

Peterborough, Ontario K9H 2W1 
Phone: (705) 742-0425 


I 


17 85 

CAMP KICHILDACA 

MR. & MRS. W. J. BABCOCK 

KETTLEBY ON 

LOG 1J0 


6IIC-800 NSSI 


IZC NSW OlbVlNO OiNObOl 
QVOb 3DN3AV 9081 Z 3linS 

npoun.) tip srfu/n.) sjp uotjnnossn 

UOUDLWmi) nimftlWJ UDipOUDJ 














