Canadian 

camping 


KEYS TO SUCCESS 


by John Latimer 


During the past few weeks I have noticed a new advertising campaign 
in Toronto. Perhaps some of you saw it on your way up here today. It's 
one of those sneak up campaigns and I don't know what it is going to lead 
to. I like it so much that I can only hope that it is not a campaign for 
a lottery or for some orange juice queen or indeed something which will 
divide and conquer us. The billboards at the present time say "CUBE 
ANONYMITY". Schools breed anonymity except for those students who are very 
good or those who are very bad. Unless one is tremendously successful or 
on the other hand horribly wrong, our society permits anonymity. Churches 
do very little to change anonymity. Unions and factories thrive on anony¬ 
mity and as far as I can see, the only people in our everyday society who 
got the message of of our basic needs is Speedy Muffler for "at Speedy, 
You're a Somebody." Now whether or not that's true... the thought is tre¬ 
mendous. You know, camp is just about the only place in today's society 
where everyone can be treated as a somebody.... where no one is a nobody.. 
where everybody is a somebody.... and it starts with the director. If he 
treats each staff member as if he's a somebody that nice, neat warm feeling 
gets through and the counsellor treats the campers - each one of them - 
as somebodies, as individuals, as people. Nov/ that's like magic. It takes 
real feeling on the part of the Director and the Section Director and the 
( (cont. o;: page 3 ) 


OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 


THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION / L ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU CANADA 


Vol. 30 No. 2 
April 1978 


SUITE 203. 102 EGL1NT0N AVENUE EAST 
TELEPHONE (416 ) 488-7345 


TORONTO. ONTARIO M4P 1E1 






A Director's Checklist 


■by Eanswythe Flynn 


APRIL 

If the spring is wet, line up all inside 
repairs and preparatory carpentry, paint¬ 
ing and planning that can be done indoors. 
If a dry season is your luck, have your 
maintenance crew get to work with all 
speed, on all outdoor projects, especially 
painting and staining. Rains sometimes 
come late in the spring. 

Look over library and reference books. 

Make a list of those you wish to bring 
from the city for camp use in the summer. 

Have you reassessed all your insurance 
needs lately? Call a consulation with 
your agent this month. 

Look into the possible use of new time¬ 
saving or semi-prepared food products. 

Use paper cups, plates, etc. where it is 
practicable; but at the same time make 
sensible, non-polluting arrangements for 
quick disposal. 

Decide whether or not a commercial dish¬ 
washer is economical. If the camp is 
large enough it might save time and money; 
otherwise the three-sink method might be 
best in your case. 

See if there are any local farmers who 
could supply fresh eggs, vegetables or 
fruits later in the season. 

Check with fuel suppliers for regular de¬ 
liveries of oil or propane. 

If water is Hydro-heated, have their main¬ 
tenance crew some in to examine tank for 
working elements and replacement, if 
necessary. 

If you need wood for a kitchen stove or 
fireplaces, have your maintenance staff 


work at wood-cutting to assure a good 
supply for the season. 

Make a list of medical and first-aid 
items to be purchased and delivered. 

Have all mattresses inspected for clean¬ 
ing or repairs. Order new ones early in 
the season .... no later than this month. 

MAT 

A good month for camper-parent staff 
get-together either at camp, weather 
and roads permitting, or in the city 
accompanied by coffee, juice, cookies, 
cakes, sandwiches .... and good fellow¬ 
ship. 

This is the time to help parents under¬ 
stand what camp is all about, how they 
should handle the child, the kind of 
letters they should write .... and not 
write; and how to send the child off hap¬ 
py and eager to be "up and away". 

(cont. on page 12) 

Canadian camping 

is published 6 times a year 
by the 

Canadian Camping Association 
102 Eglinton Ave., E. # 203 
Toronto, Ontario MAP 1E1 

(416) 488-7345 

SUBSCRIPTION RATES 

1 year $5.00 
3 years $12.00 




KEYS TO SUCCESS 


(cont. from page l) 


counsellor. It is difficult trying to make a somebody out of some kid who hasn't 
a care for anybody else and looks and dresses as if he were "The Missing Link" 

Of course they're recognized but how great it would be to have an arm put around 
you because someone liked you, not just because it was the counsellor's duty to 
be nice to everyone in the group. 

During the pre-camp period a couple of years ago, Steve Van Matre, the author 
of the book "Acclimatization" came up to our part of Haliburton to work with the 
staff of several camps. We did all sorts of very strange things with him and we 
listened to some of his very exciting stories, but one story in particular really 
stood out for me. 

That previous Christmas, Steve had been down in Florida for the Holidays. 

The family went to Disney World and of course the noon hour parade during that 
particular time of year naturally highlighted Santa Claus. Steve's son Richard 

was just at the age of doubting.questioning.and wondering about Santa 

Claus. How could this big roly poly man know where everyone lived? How could he 
remember everything that everyone wanted? Steve and his family lined up for the 
parade... the floats were beautiful.... the band exciting.... and the clowns 
lots and lots of fun. 

And then the mood started to change.Mommys and Daddys an all of the 

children knew that something special was about to happen. everyone inched out 

just a little further. Santa was just around the corner... he had to be, be¬ 
cause there was Mickey Mouse and there was Donald Duck and they're really important 
people. A huge float appeared just down the way. A big "Ho! Ho!" echoed through 
DisneyWorld. Fully prepared for the moment, Steve stood just behind his son with 
a sign over his head which said "Santa, say hello to Richard" and the arrow 
pointed down. Santa was waving to the crowd, his eye caught the sign and, in a 
clear, husky, voice he looked directly at the questioning boy and said "Merry 
Christmas Richard". Wow if that doesn't bring some pretty warm tears into your 
eyes nothing will, and you know, that's magic. That's what camp is all about... 
and that's what brings life into camp. At camp you are somebody. Think about 
that for a key. 

To me another key has something to do with daring. Daring to have confi- 

(Cont. on page 4 ) 








KEYS TO SUCCESS (Cont. from page 3 ) 

dence and belief in yourself. Now that's not easy and I am not saying that confi¬ 
dence has to make you different for the sake of being different. But camping is 
personal and it relates so much to the Director and the people who are closest to 
him. I get bothered by Gamp Directors and I guess this is primarily Private Camp 
Directors, who are so concerned about the dollar that they try to initiate every 
little gimmick or fad into their programme. They take a little bit of this philoso¬ 
phy and a little bit of that philosophy and this to me results in the Director be¬ 
coming a mish/mash of several philosophies.... a sort of wobbly custard, not knowing 
whether he is coming or going or even what he is doing. The same applies with 
committees and boards. One of the greatest crimes which a board can commit is to 
hire a Director.... and then start to make him into something which the committee 

feels he should be. taking away all vestiges of his own personality, so that 

everyone on the Board will be happy and content. How awful to have to please 
everyone on a Board! 

I grew up in camping under the influence of the greats in this country.,.. 
Charles Plewman, Taylor Statten, Mary Edgar and A.L. Cochrane. I followed in their 
footsteps up to a point, but I guess as that corny old song says, "I've Got to Be 
Me." They gave me the confidence to be me, just as a Board of Directors should 
give their Directors the confidence to be themselves. This confidence allowed me 
to try new things and it allowed me to make mistakes and it allowed me to be under¬ 
standing of those who also make mistakes. This background gave me the confidence 
to let others take the credit. Only a shallow man has to direct credit to himself. 
That same shallow man often blames everyone else for his failure. If I fail at 
my camp the fault is mine. It's not the economy. It is not the change in habits 

of our society. it's not the government. But back to footsteps .... footsteps 

should only be a guide. 

A few weekends ago, I was up at Lake Nipissing with my family. I had never 
really fished in the winter before and frankly the thought didn't really appeal 
to me.... sitting in some little shack out in the middle of nowhere... in sub zero 
weather gazing into a couple of little holes in the ice, waiting for something to 
pull at your little line to relieve the boredom. There was no boredom, and it was 
great and I must admit I had fun! Sunday morning we went out skiing and of course 
Daddy in his sexist way, broke the trail. My youngest son fell way behind and soon 
the others went ahead. I yelled out, "Mike do you want me to wait for you?" "Yes" 

__(cont. on page 5 ) _ 

—- 4 


r*\ 









KEYS TO SUCCESS ( cont . from page 4 ) 

he replied. "No" he said a moment later, "I'm going to go a different way". I was 
tempted to say, "Well — No — perhaps you better come with me.... or you might get 
lost". But I think that wisdom and thinking back to others who had allowed me to 

grow, I then had to say, "Great! See you back at the cabin". 

If we are true leaders we will help others. We will help our counsellors, we will 
help our C.I.T.s become true leaders and that means giving them the confidence to 
trust themselves and the knowledge so that they make their own trails. 

Each counsellor in every camp in this country is different - -unique - "He's a some¬ 

body" and yet we often make the mistake of regarding them all so equally. Of course 
there are some equal rules and some equal understandings and some equal expectations, 
but there the equality ends. If our counsellors aren't growing and if thery aren't 
challenged and recognized they'll go somewhere else. They'll go somewhere else 
where they'll be a somebody.... where they won't be anonymous. 

In many respects this conference and so many others like it either nationally, pro- 
vincially or within our own towns or municipalities give us the potential to design 
our keys for success. You can leave here on Sunday having gained absolutely nothing 
from the hours which have been spent in a setting such as this. If you leave saying 
to yourself that nothing has changed in your attitude, in your mind, in your reper¬ 
toire of ideas, then you are indeed an unfortunate person. Through Recreation 
Canada, an investment in our future has been made in each one of us. We have a re¬ 
sponsibility to prove that the investment is indeed a great one. We can make that 
investment work by meeting new people, by being aggressive enough to offer sugges¬ 
tions and ideas, and above all by being spongy enough and open enough to seek out 
and listen to and test ourselves by hearing new ideas and learning some new feelings. 

In camping our very personal keys to success are very unique.... but the keys are 
not worth being part of our lives unless we are willing to share, understand and 
touch. Those who are the camp directors in Canada, those who are the staff in 
Canada, those who are the C.I.T.s in Canada, and above all those who sincerely, 
honestly want to be a part of our lives - the campers in Canada. They keys are 
already in our possession. Success only comes when we know what to do with them! 


Mr. Latimer opened the National Leadership Development 
Conference held at Geneva Park, Ontario on January 19th 
to 22nd, 1978, with the foregoing remarks. 

Mr. Latimer is the Chairman of the C.C.A.'s National 
and International Conferences Committee. He is a Past 
President of both the O.C.A. and the C.C.A. 

The theme of the Geneva Park Confernce was "Keys to 
Success" Material from some of the sessions will 
appear from time to time in "Canadian Camping" See Mr* 
Jackson's article on page 8. 

Audio cassettes have also been made and will be avail¬ 
able. Information in the next issue of "Canadian 
Camping". 



5 



CCA WOODS MAN SHIP SCHOOLS 


o 



Three National Woodsmanship Leaders Schools 
are planned this year: The Atlantic Canada 
School in St. John's, Newfoundland; The Central 
School at Camp Kandalore, Minden, Ontario; and 
The Western School in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan. 

The schools will last approximately one week, 
and will be held either the last week of May or 
the first week of June. 


The National Woodsmanship Leaders School is an opportunity for potential leaders from 
many backgrounds to come together, to share and to learn so that they can return to 
their camps, their outdoor organizations and their schools with new ideas and ideals 


For further information you should write to: 

Newfoundland and labrador Camping Assn. 

Box 4188 

St, John's, Newfoundland A1C 5Z7 

OR 

Saskatchewan Camping Association 
Box 7543 

Saskatoon, Saskatchewan S7K 2L5 


The Registrar, Central School 
c/o Professor Kirk Wipper 
Room 7, School of Physical and 
Health Education 
University of Toronto 
121 St. Joseph St. 

Toronto, Qnt. M5S 1A1 




CR.CA Canoe Schools 

The Canadian Recreational Canoeing Association is conducting or assisting in the spon¬ 
sorship of nine Canoeing Instructor Schools across Canada. The purpose of these ten 
day schools is to train experienced canoeists in teaching, organizing and promoting 
one of Canada's unique heritages - canoeing and canoe tripping. 

Students wishing to attend one of the C.R.C.A. Canoe Schools should write a letter of 
application containg the following information and send it as soon as possible to the 
business manager of the school they wish to attend. Name, Address, Phone, Age, Occupa¬ 
tion, Education, Swimming Qualification, Related Outdoor Experience, Canoeing Experi¬ 
ence, Recommended By - (A Camp Director or Canoe Instructor) Camp or other organization 
you are affiliated with. Reason you wish to attend this school. 


The Newfoundland School - July 1-10 
Mr. Walter Crotty 
130 Cumberland Cres. 

St. John's, Nfld. A1B 3M3 

The Nova Scotia School - July 1-8 

Mr. David Horne 

c/o Canadian Hostel Assoc. 

P.0. Box 3010 
South Halifax, N.S. 

The New Brunswick School - 
Mr. Richard Faulkner 
Water St. 

.Riverside, Alberta tio. New Brunswick _ 

6 


The Ontario School - August 19-28 
Camp Kandalore near Minden, Ont. 

The Central School - June 11-20 
Camp White Pine Near Haliburton, Ont. 

For both Schools: Mr. Jack MacGregor 
Camp Kandalore, R.R. #2 
Minden, Ontario 


The Midwest School - May 22-31 
Mr. Jim Leggett 
c/o YMCA - 301 Vaughan St. 
Winnipeg, Manitoba R3B 2N7 

(cont. on page 7 ) 





Thought for Food 




SALAD SAVER 


" MEW POTATAH, OLD POTATAH ?« 


You can save left over salad if you do 
not serve it with the dressing on it. 
Dressing wilts. Serve the dressing as a 
sidedish. Save your left over salad in 
a "Tupperware"-like co-’tainer and it will 
be almost as fresh as the day you made it. 

"POPSICLES 11 

After a big meal try serving "Popsicles". 
They are fun for the kids as well as being 
a very inexpensive dessert and one which 
is not too filling after a heavy main 
course. 

FLAVOUR SAVOUR 

Try cooking roasts for longer at a lower 
temperature - it will add to the tender¬ 
ness, cut down markedly on shrinkage and 
greatly improve the flavour. 

It is the same principle as the "Crock- 
Pot". Have the meat in the ovens, then 
delegate someone who will be up at that 
time to turn them on to 200 - 225 F. 

They can cook during the night, then you 
will have the ovens free during the day 
until you want to warm up the meat before 
serving. Try it - you'll be impressed! 
but remember you will have to suit the 
system to the whims of your ovens. 


Sometimes it is difficult to decide which 
is the "best buy". New potatoes are more 
expensive. Old potatoes have more waste. 
Generally it has been found that your best 
buy is new potatoes - you don't have to 
peel them. They can be boiled or baked 
with the skins on and you usually don't 
encounter the rot you sometimes find in 
old potatoes. Try mashing new potatoes 
with the skins on. If you tell the staff 
ahead of time that this retains the the 
part with the highest food value rather 
than letting it be literally "washed down 
the drain", they will explain it to the 
kids. Cook some extra then you can serve 
"home fries" the next day and kids love 
home fries. Also you don't need to serve 
bread as often. 


CANOE SCHOOLS (cont. from page 6) 

The Alberta School - 
Mr. Neil Usher 
108 Primrose Gardens 
Edmonton, Alberta 

The Pacific School - August 20-30 
British Columbia Recreational 
Canoeing Association 

Box 21 

Horsefly, B.C. VOL 1L0 




"The true test of a nation is not the 
census, nor the size of cities, nor the 
material wealth - but the kind of citizens 
it turns out," 

- Emerson 


You know when some¬ 
one tells you to take a 
walk? 

Maybe they’ve got the 
right idea. 



Walk a Nork.Ttxlay. 




PLANNING YOUR YEARS 

- a maintenance program 


by Wilfred A. Jackson 

Do you have a land philosophy for your camp? Does it consider the needs of 
next year as well as this? Camp Directors have a moral and an ethical responsiblity 
for land preservation, conservation and for respecting the inter-relationship among 
all things on earth - plants, animals, soil, water and air. 

A masterplan should be developed on which all buildings and faciltites are 
shown, both present and future. This can be a very conprehensive document ut il iz in g 
the assistance of many professionals or simply an orderly guide that shows that this 
camp is "a going and growing concern." Sound advance planning is essential to the 
orderly development of a camp and therefore, the masterplan shoiild consider new pro¬ 
grams, year round use, new clientele to be served, financial resources and limita¬ 
tions of the campsite. As continuity is very important, a director should be chal¬ 
lenged to stay with the camp for at least five years. 


Good maintenance is the result of a well-planned program; adequate provision 
for its execution is a primary responsibility of the camp director. For most camps 
8 single handiman or caretaker can do most of the work. In larger camps, several 
persons, working under an experienced superintendent will be needed. The larger 
and more difficult jobs should be turned overt© outside contractors. In any event 
all major projects should be completed prior to camp opening, so that the program 
can get off to a good start. Regular weekly meetings should be held with the main¬ 
tenance staff to assure that the maintenance program is being adhered to in a rou¬ 
tine way and that agreed upon priorities are kept in perspective. 

It is important to have a selected group of staff members come early and stay 
late to help with opening and closing procedures. 


The maintenance staff should have a well equipped shop where repair work of all 


kinds can be carried on. 


(cont. on page 9 ) 


n 


n 


ns 


8 




PLANNING YOUR YEARS - a maintenance program (cont. from page 8) 

Maintenance can be viewed in terms of its effect on program and not merely in 
terms of site preservation as an isolated function. Camp property provides the 
physical environment for the expression of program. Facilities are only the means 
to an end. The end product is the enjoyment and growth of the camper. 

An excellent practice is the development of a "Maintenance Manual. This 
should contain detailed check lists and directions for all concerned with property 
management and maintenance. Include a schedule arranged by seasons, including spe¬ 
cific details on opening and closing procedures. A record of each building should 
be kept showing floor plans, type of contraction, history, inventory, and required 
repairs. 


Supplementing the maintenance manual should be plans of water, electrical, 
and sewage systems. Copies of manufacturers directions for the maintenance and oper¬ 
ation of mechanical equipment should be kept in an easily accessible location in 
case of emergency repair 

The use of a logbook is a good tool for recording repairs as well as keeping 
administrative forms to a minimum. The schedules of maintenance problems and the 
organizing-of these into routines is the final aspect of the administrative process. 

"Opening" should be a gradual series of tasks rather than a crush of activi¬ 
ties in the spring and early summer leaving no room for improvment, testing of new 
ideas, and testing of tasks completed. Visualize maintenance as a year round pro¬ 
cess, so that some of the tasks at closing time are actually opening chores for the 
next camping season. 


A small amount of work sone regularly may prevent a big repair bill or a cost¬ 
ly failure later on. 


SUGGESTIONS 


1. Develop a large master map of the camp¬ 
site. 

2. Set-up a portfolio of buildings, indu¬ 
ing - photographs 

- floor plans 

- inventories 

Have a separate file for each building 

3. Maintain log of improvments (records of 
repairs) 


4. Have a listing of local suppliers in 
maintenance building. 

5. Set-up a seasonal calendar of main¬ 
tenance requirements. 

6 . Professional consulation 

- suppliers 

- architects 

- landscape architects 

- contractors 
(cont. on page 12 ) 


9 



COMING EVENTS 




APRIL 


1978 


AVRIL 


OCA Professional Leadership Develop¬ 
ment Weekend, Phase III 

I B.C.C.A. Hypothermia Symposium, 

Worth Vancouver Centennial Theatre 

7-9 Seminar des directeurs de camps 

10 QCA Exec. Meeting, Montreal YMCA 

II OCA Annual Meeting at Ont. Soc. of 
Crippled Children, Toronto. 

12 Executif - Section francais - Con- 
seil d'administration. 

18 QCA Gen. Meeting, "Let's Get Ready 
for the Summer." 

19 Souper-causerie - Region de Quebec 

20,21 CCA Board and Annual Meeting in 
Winnipeg, Manitoba. 

21-13 MCA Conference 

29 Wfld. and Lab. Annual Meeting and 

Spring Conference 


MAY 


1978 


MAI 


1 Date limite pour payer cotisation 

6 OCA Counsellor Conference, Centen¬ 
nial College, Toronto. 

8 QCA Exec. Meeting, Montreal YMCA 

9 OCA Exec. Meeting, Toronto Office. 

10 Assemblee generale annuelle - Sect, 
francais. 

12-14 SCA Annual Meeting and Spring Conf. 
Waskesui. 

12-14 ACQ Stage de plein air 

17 ACQ-QCA Reunion Conseil Provincial 

19-22 NSCA Leadership Training Weekend, 
Camp Hillis, West Paradise, Anna¬ 
polis County, Wova Scotia. 

26-28 ACQ Stage de plein air 

27 QCA Counsellor Conference 


JUNE 


1978 


JUIN 




k CAMP .£; 

rnTIMSife 

,s time for feiffii 


7 QCA Standards Meeting 

12 QCA Exec. Meeting, Montreal YMCA 


PRINTED NAME TAPES 


ALL CAMPERS' CLOTHING AND 
BELONGINGS 

should be marked for easy identification- 
losses are costly. 

CAMP LINEN AND EQUIPMENT, TOO, 
should be marked to avoid confusion 
and loss. 

NAMES OR NUMBERS CAN BE 
SUPPLIED. 

Order CASH'S NAME TAPES from 
department stores and other dealers — 
or direct from 

CASH'S 

CANADA LABELS LIMITED 

BOX 70, STATION S 
MONTREAL, QUEBEC 

PRINTED NAME PRICES 

6 doz. $3.20 9 doz. $3.65 

12doz. $4.50 24 doz. $5.50 

No C.O.D.s. Please mail cheque or 
money order. 

Please include appropriate 
Provincial Sales Tax . 


Wanted 


CAMP DIRECTOR 

for residential and out-tripping 
program for a maximum of forty 
campers and twenty staff near 

Happy Valley/Goose Bay, Labrador 

Salary: $1800 

If interested, send resume, 
emphasizing wilderness experience 
to: 

Labrador Christian Youth Camp 
P.0. Box 742 
Happy Valley, Labrador 
Newfoundland AOP 1E0 


10 



Trampolines* 

Mr. Braverman of Pripstein's Camp, a Q.C.A. 
member, sends us the following information 
that came in response to his letter to the 
American Medical Association, regarding the 
possible use of a trampoline at a children's 
camp. The AMA sent him a Policy Statement 
from the American Academy of Pediatrics. 

"Trampoline accidents have resulted 
in a significant number of cases of qua- 
driplegia. In many cases, the accidents 
have occured while the victims were par¬ 
ticipating in supervised physical educa- 

* This statement has been reviewed and en— 
doresed by the Academy's Council on 
Child Health. 


tion activities. A recent national 
survey of sports injuries in high 
schools and colleges conducted by the 
National Athletic Injury/ llness Re¬ 
porting System (NAIRS) showed that be¬ 
tween 1973-1975 spinal cord injuries 
with permanent paralysis resulted more 
frequently from trampolines than any 
other gymnastic sport. Next to foot¬ 
ball, trampolines were found to be the 
highest cause of permanent paralysis 
in this survey. 

Therefore, the Committee on Accident 
and Poison Prevention of the A.A. P. 
recommends that trampolines be banned 
from use as part of the physical educa¬ 
tion programs in grammar schools, high 
schools and colleges and also be abol¬ 
ished as a competitive sport." 


CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 
PUBLICATION SERVICES 



PRICE $2.00 


CHAPTER HEADINGS: 

• The Camp Nurse 

• Organization of the Health Program 

• Health Counselling 

• Health Teaching 

• Emergencies 

• Recording and Reporting 

• Camp Sanitation 

• Standing Orders 

• Supplies and Equipment 

• Health Information for Counsellors 


YOU WILL WANT TO READ — 

THENURSEAND 
THE HEALTH PROGRAM 
ATCAMP 

Mary I. Casey, B.Sc.N. 

IF YOU ARE: 

• Going to be a camp nurse for the first time 

• A camp nurse with experience 

• A Camp Director 

• A Camp Board Member 

• A Camp Doctor with Nurses on Staff 

• A Consultant to Camps 

• A Counsellor 


To order your copy of The Nurse and 
the Health Program at Camp , please 
send cheque or money order, made pay¬ 
able to Canadian Camping Association 

Send to: C.C.A. Publications Service 

102 Eglinton Ave., E. # 203 
Toronto, Ontario M4P 1E1 

Please send me _ copies of The 

Nurse and the Health Program at Camp 
I enclose $ (Book costs &2.00) 

Name_ 

Address 


11 




A Director’s Checklist 

(cont. from page 2 ) 

The first staff training in town should 
be arranged now. 

If the camp travels together by bus or 
train, make final arrangements with 
transportation company. 

A meeting with local or camp doctor 
to discuss camp care will give him some 
idea of what's expected during the sum¬ 
mer. 

Send water samples (both drinking and 
swimming) regularly to Provincial Health 
Department. 

Find out from your provincial camping 
association whether or not this is your 
year for a Standards Visitation. If so, 
make all arrangements with office. 

Make out order for first deliveries of 
milk, bread, vegetables, and meat and 
give specific delivery date. 

If canoes or other watercraft are out 
for repair, be sure to arrange delivery 
date at least two weeks before camp opens 


PLATO YOUR mas (oont from vage 9 ) 

7. Make a check list of standards for 
building. 

8 . Prepare a maintenance manual (loose 
leaf) 

9. Keep manufacturer's operating instruc¬ 
tions on file. 

10 . Tag all keys ( have soares made and 
kept by Maintenance Head). 

11 * Conduct weekly tours of site with 
Maintenance Head. 

Mr. Jackson is the Director of Camps 
and Confenence Centre of the Catholic 
Co mmuni ty Services, Inc. Montreal 


Wanted 

WILDERNESS PROGRAM DIRECTOR 

Y.M.C.A. Camp Stephens 
May 1st - September 30th, 1978 

Also positions available for 
canoe trippers and counsellors 

For more information contact: 

Mr. Jim Leggat 
Department of Camping 
and Outdoor Education 
301 Vaughan Street 
Winnipeg, Manitoba R3B 2N7 


6TTC-800 NSSI 


131 dt-W OIUVJ.NO 'OiNOHOl 
J.SV3 30N3AV N01NH03 Z01 'EOZ 31K1S 

opoiioa np sdiuDJ sap uoijoposso 
uoijopossD Suiduiva umpnuvo 




