
CAMP STAFF ISSUE 



OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 
L’ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU CANADA — PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 

SUITE 2. 1806 AVENUE ROAD • TORONTO. ONTARIO M5M 3Z1 Volume 33 No. 1 

telephone (416) 781-4717 February 1981 


1 








Dispose of camp food 
service problems with 

royal Chinet 

disposable plates and bowls 

Strong, attractive Royal CHINET food service products help you ... 

• DISPOSE OF DISHWASHING COSTS 

Cut the expense of installing, maintaining and manning equipment 
that is used only a few months of the year. 

• DISPOSE OF BREAKAGE 

Save yourself the trouble and expense of buying matching replace¬ 
ments for pieces that crack, chip and shatter. 

• DISPOSE OF FOOD WASTE 

You get exact portion control with Royal CHINET’s wide range of 
sizes in regular and compartmented designs. 

• DISPOSE OF GERM COLLECTORS 

Royal CHINET products are sterilized when manufactured and 
packaged. And there’s never a germ-collecting chip, crack or 
poorly washed dish. 

• DISPOSE OF IRRITATING NOISE 

Disposable service is silent service. Meals are relaxed without the 
clatter and crash of china or metal. 

ENVIRONMENTAL ADVANTAGES, TOO 

All good campers want to protect the environment. Royal CHINET prod¬ 
ucts are manufactured from a renewable resource. What’s more, they’re 
biodegradable ... molded of natural wood fibres that burn readily with 
little smoke. Even if discarded out-of-doors, Royal CHINET quickly de¬ 
composes in the earth. 

Get the full particulars now. Mail this coupon today. 


CANADIAN KEYES FIBRE COMPANY LTD. 
HANTSPORT, NOVA SCOTIA 

Please provide me with details of the variety and costs of Royal 
CHINET food service products. 

NAME_ 





COMPANY or CAMP 
ADDRESS _ 


CITY 




PROV_ 


2 









EDITORIAL 


THE LESSONS OF HISTORY 

"To those of us who have a respect for the lessons 
of history not merely because they are reminders of man's 
mistakes and misdeeds, but because they are also an 
encouraging remembrance of generative souls; the past 
ceases to be a depressing story of dread and destruction 
and becomes a legend of greatness where a thousand saints, 
statesmen and scientists; hundreds of inventors, teachers 
and artists; a few great lovers and philosophers and, 

millions of common people still live and speak to us. We 
are not distressed because we can see no meaning in life 
except what we humans put into it. We are proud that we may 
add to the betterment of our condition as a family of man. 
Sometimes we add something which is so significant that it 
may be valued for generations to come." 

If we are successful we will have chosen the best of 
our heritage and passed it on to your children and have done 
it in such a way that they will recognize the value of this 
inexhaustible legacy and will then, pass it on to their 
children, in their turn. 


after Will and Auriel Durant 





NATURE HIKES: some new approaches 

by Nancy Weeks 

INTRODUCTION 

Introduce yourself, and if appropriate have mem¬ 
bers of the group introduce themselves. 

STRUCTURE 

Be clear what your theme or focus is, whether 
very specific, eg. insect eating plants, or more 
general, eg. nature awareness. It is wise to 
have a structured opening and closing, but the 
body may be very organized or spontaneous. 

During the hike, be sure that everyone is there, 
can see and hear before talking about something. 

A circle or semi-circle is best. Periodically 
but discreetly vary the order of the people fol¬ 
lowing you. One way is to stop, talk, then move 
off in another direction. Depending on the area 
and the group, you may wish to let them take 
turns leading - this works well with children 
who want to be out in front. 

TYPES 

All nature hikes need not follow the same format. 

1. Blaze a Scent Trail - use wintergreen or clove oil and blaze a trail for a short 
distance. How well can the group follow their noses? 

2. Collecting for Sharing - with field guides, magnifying lenses, a kitchen strainer 
or aquarium net and a small glass jar. 

3. Change Your Point of View - climb-up for a squirrel’s view of the world, kneel 
down for an ant’s. Lie on your back to look at a tree. Look through a closed 
fist ’microscope’. Measure lengths with your body (how many hands?) 

4. Unravelling the Strands - label index cards with various ecological concepts, eg. 
Patterns, Variety and Similarity; Cycles; Food Chains; Dependence and Independence. 
Keep the age group in mind when choosing the terms. Pair up and give each pair a 
card with a Stand and a pencil. Ask them to spend five minutes exploring a small 
area, looking for examples of their Strand. Reassemble and share. 



5. Point of Interest - this is the classic, naturalist-leads-stops-talks-walks hike. 
Try to make the various stops part of a continuous story and arouse interest. 

6. Carry Mystery Objects - an antler, feather, tooth, bone, beaver stick, arrowhead 
or other interesting object that can be used to start a discussion. 

7. A Group Discovery - use a ’find! as a focus. Form a tight circle and pass it 
from hand to hand, each person giving one fact and feeling about it. After each 
person has had a turn, open a general discussion. 

8. Contemplation or Silent Moment - you may wish to disperse the group or keep every¬ 
one together and be silent for a few minutes. You may want to use an inspirational 
piece to create a mood first, or use the silence to make the group aware of the 
sounds around them. 



STAFF ARE PEOPLE TOO ! 


Just how do you go about making sure you have continuity of staff within your Camp? 
How do Camp Directors get the tools to make sure that their staff will return year 
after year and thus give the benefit of their training and development to all our 
campers? 

As a group of Camp Administrators we must develop the proper point of view concer¬ 
ning why we hire our staff and what we expect of them as a staff and again as peo¬ 
ple. We recognize the basic need of the staff to understand the needs of the cam¬ 
pers they are working with and the developmental needs of the different age groups. 
But then isn’t it just as important, from our point of view, to understand the de¬ 
velopmental needs of our staff and to spend time on this age group as well? 

Most staff are in the 17 to 21 age group (with exceptions). Now about this age 
group, is it sufficient to say... "I have hired them to do a job, now let them do 
it!' 1 ? This is part of the group that always seems to be shouting "adults just 
don’t understand...". 

Just what is our relation to our staff? We say that we support and train them. 
Train them in ’pre’, ’in’, and ’post’ Camp sessions. Just what are we covering in 
those sessions? Does your staff have any say in the content? Do you sit down and 
let the staff decide any of the training direction or policy? Do you look at your 
training in terms of weeks or days... or better still in terms of years ? 

What is the work atmosphere of your staff? Do we as Camp Directors really appre¬ 
ciate and encourage initiative? Or do we as Camp Administrators see initiative as 
a threat? Do we hire staff because of their personality and then say to them... 
"this is the way I want you to do it"? Do we really let out staff work out things 
according to their own personality, but still get the same results that we are af¬ 
ter? Do we let our staff make mistakes? ... Why not?... What a terrific way to 
teach! Do we as experienced Camp people suppress the personality of our staff with 
our own METHODS? 

Our staff are people with the same basic needs and desires as our campers. Do we 
in our supervision and encouragement give thought to those needs and desires? Or 
are we so tied up with the day-to-day problems of running a Camp that we cease to 
be philosophers? 

All of these questions must be answered, it we are going to begin to understand 
what is happening to the staff in our Camps. They are going to have to be answered 
by you in your own setting, if you are going to know what you are doing with your 
staff. 



(cont. on page 16) 






NTED NAME 


YOUR NAME IN BLOCK LETTERS 


Avoid clothing mix-ups 
and losses. Use colour-fast 
Identifab Name Tapes on 
clothing, sheets, blankets, 
towels, etc. To order simply 
fill-out order form below and 


AVAILABLE IN 
RED. BLACK AND BLUE 


PRICES 


$ 4.00 

$ 4.50 

$ 5.75 


(Delivery one week approximately) No phone orders — No C.O.D. pleasei 

r TdentifabTabels^reg t d ! 

PO. BOX 2308. DORVAL. QUEBEC H9S 3H0 I 

| PLEASE SEND ME- PRICE- COLOUR - | 

| ENCLOSED IS CHEQUE OR MONEY ORDER IN THE AMOUNT OF $- | 

, AND MADE PAYABLE TO IDENTIFAB LABELS REG’D 


I ADDRESS _ 

I CITY_ 

| j PRINT NAME HERE 

, I (ONE LINE ONLY) 


POSTAL CODE_ 


Wouldn't you 
rather watch 
your weight 
than have 
everyone 
else 

watching it? 


USE PLAIN PAPER FOR ADDITIONAL ORDERS 


Position Wanted 




pdmicipacTion 

The Canadian movement for personal fitness. 


Experienced Camp Director is seeking a 
position for the 1981 season. 

Has served in all staff positions, i.e. 
Counsellor, Waterfront, Crafts, Section 
and Program Head, Assistant Director, 
Director. 

University Graduate - Child Psychology 
and Counselling - teaching at inner city 
school in winter, has been active in 
Scouting, Y.M.C.A., etc., married with 
two children. 

Past Director of Camp Maple Leaf, Inc. 

(4 years); Woodland Camp (3 years); 
most recently Assistant and Program 
Director of Camp Hockley Valley (5 years) 

Available from July 1, 1981. 


Please contact: 


Bud Jacobi 
8 Patricia Drive 
St. Catharines, Ontario 
L2M 4P3 

(416) 934-7223 


Wanted 


JOB OPPORTUNITY : A fulltime grounds 
and maintenance position is open from 
April 1, 1981 at Camp Assiniboia, lo¬ 
cated 35 km east of downtown Winnipeg. 
The camp is one of three locations, 
fully winterized, with year-round pro¬ 
grams, owned and operated by the Con¬ 
ference of Mennonites in Manitoba. 

For more information: 

"Camps With Meaning" 
c/o Terry Burkhalter 
203 - 1483 Pembina Highway 
Winnipeg, Manitoba R3T 2C9 
(204) 475-3550 


6 






HIKING FROM DAY CAMPS 








There are few things more challenging or exhilarating than walking down a country 
road, or across a farmer’s field, or along an abandoned road allowance. The hike 
may be taken with an objective in mind or just for the fun of being outdoors. 

Hiking may well be a new experience for your day campers, since parents are usually 
called upon to do most of the transportation by cars these days. An enthusiastic 
approach is essential to arouse the interest of the group. 

Pre-planning - an essential: 

1. Discuss the hike with your group, what to take, the purpose and what to wear. 

2. Get permission from the director. Draw a sketch of the route of the hike. A 
list of all those going in the hike should be attached to it along with the 
proposed time of departure and return. Keep this all on file. 


3. 


Gather equipment: 


a) Compass and map of the area to be encountered. 

b) First Aid equipment (a belt is a good trick for this 
equipment) 

c) Food, canteens, cooking equipment 

d) Song sheets are good to have along. 


4. Final details before departure: 


a) Drink of water for all. 

b) Toilet drill for everybody 

c) Distribute equipment to be taken, appropriate loads 
to size of camper. 

d) Make sure each camper has proper attire, hat, sweater, 
comfortable shoes and socks. 

e) An assortment of small knapsacks and try to have the 
campers pack lunches, etc. in these. It is best to 
have the hands free. 


5. The camp phone number must be taken along with enough money to phone back to 
camp. Arrangements must be made for transportation for the return trip to 
camp beforehand if this seems to become a likely need. 


6 . 


Rules of the road: N 

a) 

b) 

c) 

d) 

e) 

f) 

g) 


Two counsellors go on each hike with one at the head 
of the group and one at the rear. 

When on the road, walk at the left side, single file, 
facing the traffic. 

Do not swim enroute, unless permission is given before¬ 
hand . 

Fires may only be lit with prior permission. 

Learn to recognize and avoid poisonous plants. 

Check during the hike for possible blisters. Use a 
bandaid on any suspect areas. 

Watch for fatigue, and encourage the group to rest at 
frequent intervals. Try the ’Scout’s Pace’. Rest at 
least a half hour after lunch. 


Rainy Day Hikes - Try a hike in the rain, there is nothing worse than sitting 

around inactively on a rainy day. Just make sure your campers 
have adequate waterproof footwear and a rainproof hat. 

Nature Hikes - Can be very stimulating, providing the counsellor has some 

(cont. on page 10) 



PUBLICATIONS 

From time to time "Canadian Camping" is happy to bring to the attention of its 
readers, the names of books which may be of interest, but that are not carried by 
the C.C.A. Publications Service. Here are three such suggestions: The first, 
should be available at bookstores across the country; the second, published in 
French only, may be ordered from the distributor named below; and the third, by 
mail-order from the U.S.,as indicated. 

EXILE IN THE WILDERNESS 

The Life of the Chief Factor, Archibald McDonald, 1790-1853 

This is a book which should hold the reader's interest and provide exciting ad¬ 
venture in actual history of Western Canada's initial development from Fort 
Garry to the Pacific Northwest. 

Little has been written to give, with warmth and humour, such a complete historic 
picture of furtrading, trials, survival, canoe voyages of discovery through that 
untamed wilderness; but the author, Jean Murray Cole, a great-great-granddaughter 
of Archibald McDonald has used, as a basis,his actual records, reports and letters 
of the time, as well as other archival material... the past as it happened... 

EXILE IN THE WILDERNESS, by Jean Murray Cole, Gage Publishing, ... $ 15.95 

VOYAGE FANTAISIES ET AVENTURES EN PLEIN AIR 

J'ai ecrit ce livre parce que j'en avais legout... et j'ai ete capable del, ecrire 
parce que je 1'avais vecu. 

Nul n'est besoin d'escalader de hauts sommets ou de franchir des bras de mer a 
la nage pour etre un amateur de plein-air; avec un peu d'originalite et de fan-* 
taisie, de nombreuses avantures peuvent se derouler a proximite de votre cour ou 
de votre chalet. 

Vivre une jounce dans arbre, se promener en foret, cueillir un lever de soleil, 
derober un clair de lune, saisir un flacon de neige... sont autant de situations 
qui assument une presence quotidienne de la nature dans votre vie. 

J'ai voulu que, par la recontre de la nature, l'homme se redecouvre et se ren¬ 
contre . 

VOYAGE FANTAISIES ET AVENTURES EN PLEIN AIR , par Paul Pichard, 212 p. 
Distributions Reliv inc., C.P. 188, Isle-Verte, GOL 1K0, (418) 898-2244,...$9.95. 


FACILITY MAINTENANCE SYSTEMS 

A new comphrehensive manual for property management published by the Girl Scouts 
of the U.S.A. It should be very helpful for those who are responsible for mana¬ 
ging and maintaining property. 

The book deals with its subject matter in a practical easy-to-use way. It pro¬ 
vides guidance on cost-effective maintenance planning, recordkeeping, scheduling 
and budgeting, security and other relevant topics. It was written by John J. 
Murray, Property Development Consultant for the Girl Scouts of the U.S.A., and 
a member of the American Society of Landscape Architects. 

FACILITY MAINTENANCE SYSTEMS , by John J. Murray, 96 p., available from Girl Scouts 
of the U.S.A., 830 Third Ave, New York, N.Y. 10022, (212) 940-7500.$7.00 (U.S) 


r*\ 






8 








I 


A TRIBUTE 


RALPH H. RAYMER 


Ralph Raymer died on November 20, 1980, while he was visiting 
in his home town, Beaver, Pennsyvania. 

Camping has lost one of its stalwarts who made many significant 
contributions through his continuous efforts, especially for 
Camp Tanamakoon (directors 1953-1974) and the Ontario Camping 
Association. 

Always present at camping meetings he was highly visible. In 
company with his late wife, Elizabeth. His white hair and de¬ 
lightful personality combined with his questioning, challenging 
and sometimes controversial participation, made him stand out 
as a dignified and respected person. His efforts were always 
directed toward improving camping and raising standards to his 
own high level of excellence. 

As chairman of the Finance Committee he organized the books and 
recording methods in O.C.A. His business experience often con¬ 
tributed to the operation of the Association and his remarks 
suggested, as he said - "You would think I am a pseudo-lawyer". 

Past Presidents will appreciate his careful detailed evaluation 
and recommendations when he served on the Membership Committee 
and especially when he was chairman of the Standards Committee 
in 1965-66 with a continuing concern in this area. 

As co-directors of Camp Tanamakoon - Elizabeth contributed a 
warm personality and a lifetime of experience, supported by 
Ralph with his sound business and operational practices resul¬ 
ting in a most successful camp. 

They were founding members of the Society of Camp Directors and 
Honourary Life Associates of O.C.A., and he was a Senior Member 
of Kiwanis. 

Elizabeth was a fine photographer, with a love and knowledge 
of wildlife. Ralph, too, loved the out-of-doors and was an 
ardent bird-watcher. He was an enthusiastic gardner, handy 
with tools and created special feeding stations for birds. 

They will both be missed but long remembered in camping circles 
and especially by the hundreds of campers and staff who were en¬ 
riched by their leadership. 

J. HARRY EBBS, M.D. 


9 



HIKING FROM DAY CAMPS 


(cont. from page 7) 


Nature Hikes - Can be very stimulating, providing the counsellor has some know¬ 
ledge of the terrain to be covered. It is a good idea to do a 
dry run with a knowledgeable person before taking campers. Be 
as excited about this sort of hike as you can. Your initial 
tone can generate enthusiasm or boredom. See Nancy Weeks 1 article 
on page 4 (this issue) for additional suggestions for Nature Hikes. 


Historical or 
Geology Hikes 


Many camps are located in areas where there are historical or 
geological points of interest. Permission to visit historical 
sites is usually easy to obtain and Southern Ontario abounds 
with exciting areas where campers can be taken to study local 
geology. Such hikes are not only fun but informative as well. 


Overnight Hikes - It is not difficult to arrange with some nearby property owner 

or local park authority the right to camp overnight. Be sure to 
ascertain the conditions for fires and cooking, also sources of 
wood for the fire. Water is essential as are toilet facilities. 
Decentralization might be one way of easing the load on over¬ 
nights . 


Weather Fore¬ 
casting 


Good to know; fun to try on hikes. Some basic principles help 
you to be prepared for unexpected storms. 


Suggested Reading: 

Hiking Trails in Canada - The Greb Hiking Bureau 
Foot Care for the Trail - " " " M 

Equipment for the Trail - M " " M 

Weather Forecasting - " " 11 n 


W.J. Babcock, B.A., B.P.E., Owner-Director, Camp Richildaca, Kettleby, Ontario 



10 









The COUNSELLORS Pag e 

The Role Of A Staff Member 


Know the camp rules and regulations be¬ 
forehand, so that your expectations are 
not different* Know about salary, staff 
laundry and transportation, time off, 
rules which should not be broken, when 
paid and opening and closing dates of 
Camp. If unsure, ASK. 

If new, push yourself in Pre-Camp to 
meet others. If old, make it your re¬ 
sponsibility to make new staff feel com¬ 
fortable. Build up each other. Don’t 
make hasty assumptions about anyone, 
just because they might be slightly dif¬ 
ferent. Learn as much as possible in 
Pre-Camp; especially in First Aid and 
Artificial Respiration situations, don’t 
be satisfied with last year’s knowledge. 
Be totally refreshed. Learn new pro¬ 
gram ideas... and offer new suggestions. 

Prepare your cabin or tent, so that 
campers feel comfortable and secure. 

Know their names, and prepare to get to 
know them as people... individually. 

Know their special interest and hopes 
for their time at camp. Ask them why 
they are going to camp, or why they are 
returning? Respond to their answers. 

Make sure they know the rules, and the 
guidelines, especially in waterfront 
and other risk areas. Don’t be afraid 
to maintain certain standards in rela¬ 
tion to manners, language and other ha¬ 
bits, which we hope they have learned 
at home. Going to camp does not neces¬ 
sarily mean a total abandonment of home 
training and good habits. 

Don’t hold back from letting your cam¬ 
pers know that you have certain expecta¬ 
tions of them. Motivate them to meet 
certain challenges, each camper at his/ 
her own level. It’s unrealistic to ex¬ 
pect every child to meet the same stan¬ 
dard. That may happen in school, but 
it need not happen in a camp... if the 
camp is based on the worth of an INDI- 
VIDUAL. 


Know the feelings of the children in 
your group, or who come to your Activity. 

Know when they are scared (be cautious 
with ghost stories, etc.). 

Know why they are being offensive or 
boastful., do they need some recognition 
from you? 

Know how they express their anger. Do 
they blow up, or hold everything in? Why 
are they angry? How any when should you 
step in to a fight or argument? 

Know how they express their loneliness. 

And when do they want to be alone? (Do 
you know the difference?) 

All homesick campers do not act they 
same way. There is not always tears and 
stomach aches. Some homesick campers be¬ 
come very reserved, withdrawn, and even 
very tempermental, angry and resentful. 

Be sensitive to this very real ’sickness’ 

Be aware of those campers who need extra 
attention. How are they seeking this? 

How are they asking for your support? 

Know when to come down strong on the rules 
and expectations. 

Know how to discipline properly, and fair¬ 
ly. Don’t use ’archaic’ physical punish¬ 
ment or ’torture and endurance’ tests. 

Make the punishment fit the crime. 

You must be the model. Avoid double stan¬ 
dards. Give and show affection. Be fun 
and spontaneous. The campers have little 
time with you...make the most of it. Your 
influence might be with them for life. 

Make it positive. 



11 




THE CAMP STAFF MANUAL 


DEFINITION 


A STAFF MANUAL is a booklet prepared by the camp for the purpose of informing 
its future staff about the camp and their role in it. 

REASONS FOR USING A STAFF MANUAL 


1 Orientation of staff (especially new members) to the physical features of the 
camp. 

2 Interpretation of traditions, philosophies, objectives and emphases (i.e., of 
the camp and of the camping movement). 

3 Sharing of information about procedures, regulations, job expectations, organi¬ 
zational structure, schedules, routines, etc. 

4 Preparation and training for job performance and basis for pre-camp training. 

5 Avoidance and frustration, confusion, misunderstanding and apprehension ari¬ 
sing from lack of communication. 


MOST STAFF MANUALS CONTAIN 


I GENERAL 

Table of contents 
Purpose of Manual 
Foreword, welcome 


II FACTS ABOUT CAMP 


1 . 


Locale 

directional map to get 
sketch of site showing 
description of special 
special problems which 


there 

trails, program areas, buildings, etc. 

features of the setting 

site gives rise to (communications etc.) 


2. Traditions, Philosophy, etc. 

statements outlining and interpreting these 

statement relating camp’s objectives to the camping movement and its 
philosophy 

brief historical sketch of the camp 

explanation of role that camping plays in the total program of the spon¬ 
soring organization , where such exists 
explanation of special emphasis in program, procedures, etc. as they 
arise from the background, tradition and philosophy of the camp 


12 



Ill 


3. Procedures and Regulations 

for administration, staff meetings, etc. 
for emergencies, safety, waterfront, use of boats, etc. 
for routines, typical day, typical week, Sunday programs 
for programming, special events, etc. 

for inter-camp relationships (e.g. canoe tripping etc.) 
for use of camp vehicles, equipment, etc. 

4. Organizational Structure 

channels of communication 
supervisory relationships 
co-operative relationships 
future staff opportunities 

5. Personnel Policies 

sickness allowance 

employment and dismissal procedures 
salary scales and payment procedures 
travel to and from camp, charges for laundry, etc 

WHAT THE COUNSELLOR NEEDS TO KNOW 
The Art of Counselling 

1. About the Camper 

why he comes to camp 
what he is like at each age level 
his needs by age groups 

common behaviorial problems and their "solutions" 
health needs (danger of fatigue) 

2. Leadership 

Do’s and Don’ts of counselling 
what makes a good leader 
what makes a good counsellor 
camper guidance 

need for self-discipline, personal habits, rest requirements 
importance of example 

3. Discipline 

meaning of discipline 
what kinds of punishment, if any 
factors in group discipline 
building of esprit de corps 
Do’s and Don’ts of discipline 

4. The Cabin Counsellor 

special qualifications 

cabin routines (rising, ablutions, meals, clean-up, rest-hour, parent 
letters, parcels, prayers) 
duties before campers’ arrival 
rainy day activities, books, stories 



(cont. on page 14) 


13 




STAFF MA NUAL 

(cont. from page 13) 

5. Counsellor Duties 

night patrol 

life guard 

evening snacks 

records and reports 

relation to all-camp program 

6 . 


7. Public Relations 

procedures for visitors (anytime, special days) 
deportment on days off 

consideration for cottagers, neighbors, nearby communities 

8. Awards available to Campers or Staff 

requirements, standards of various camp activities and their awards 

9. Preparations before Camp 

what to read - bibliography 

what to prepare - rainy days, games, campfire programs 

what to bring - clothing, bedding, equipment, medical certificate 

10. The Intangible Rewards 

the unique nature of camp life 
satisfaction of a worthwhile job 
building of lasting friendships 
investment in personal health 
gratitude of campers and families 

IV SAMPLE FORMS USED AT CAMP 

test sheets (swimming, canoeing, camp crafts, etc.) 
tripping reports, what to take, hints for safety 
parent reports, reports to section heads, etc. 
counsellor evaluation 

V JOB ANALYSES 

program director 
section head 

specialist, asistant specialist 
activity counsellor, assistant 
cabin counsellor 
C.I.T. program 



Privileges 

evening snacks 
laundry facilities 
tuck shop 
recreation areas 
program (swimming, crafts, riding, skiing, boats, canoes) 
time-off (days, nights, daily period) 
staff car, if any 



14 




n 


r*\ 




VI THE MANUAL AS REFERENCE MATERIAL 

list of games and activities 
rules for games 
first-aid knowledge 


VII HINTS FOR PREPARING THE MANUAL 

bind in a stiff loose-leaf cover 

do not overcrowd pages, leave apple space between sections 
use simple language 
be brief 

use different coloured pages for different sections (compulsory 
material, reference material, basis for pre-camp training) 
the tone of the Manual sets the tone of the future counsellor. 


Classified Ads 


Wanted 


Experienced Camp Director required for 
Moorelands-Kawagama Camp, a Christian 
oriented residential facility located 
near Dorset, Ontario and serving low 
income famililies from Metro Toronto. 
Position to commence June through 
until the end of August 1981. 

The following positions are also avail¬ 
able for the 1981 season: 

Food Co-ordinator, Maintenance Manager, 
Chaplain, Activity Heads (Waterfront, 
Tripping, Arts and Crafts, Canoeing) 

Apply to: 

Interim Director Moorelands-Kawagama 
Downtown Churchworkers Association 
145 Adelaide Street East 
Toronto, Ontario M5C 1L7 


Wanted 

Ontario Society for Crippled Children 
requires a Camp Director mid-June un¬ 
til the end of August 1981. 

Qualifications : 

Administrative and supervisory skills, 
knowledge of Camping Activities and 
Programs as well as the needs of physi¬ 
cally handicapped children. 

Interested person should apply immedi¬ 
ately. 

For further information and application 
Please contact: 

Mrs. Eleanor Kay 
Supervisor of Camping 
350 Rumsey Road 
Toronto, Ontario 
M4G 1R8 

(416) 425-6220 ex 241 


Help us keep our computerized mailing list up-to-date. Let us know as soon as your 
moving plans have been completed. C.C.A., 1806 Avenue Rd., Toronto, Ont. M5M 3Z1_ 
please change our/my address from: to: 


Effective: _ _ 

_ day month year 


If a member of a Prov. Assoc. __ 

name of association 


15 



I 


STAFF ARE PEOPLE TOO 1 

(continued from page 5 ) 

I remember discussing with one of my senior staff just why he had returned to Camp 
each year. I then asked him to take on the job of trying to find out from the rest 
of the staff their own reasons for feeling attached to this camp. The most constant¬ 
ly stated opinion was that of an atmosphere where ..." I can express myself .... in 
many different ways ... through developing programme with our campers ... through 
experimentation with my own philosophy ... through accepting the challenge of dis¬ 
cussion and the give and take with the rest of the staff". All of this contributed 
to the work atmoshere of the camp. There was a feeling of being able to express 
creativity without threat - without ridicule and knowing that one has the support 
of the rest of the staff and above all the support needed at both ends ... the cam¬ 
pers and the director. So, how do we as Camp Administrators answer all these ques¬ 
tions? 

Questions of understanding ... freedom ... development ... needs and desires ... 
initiative ... encouragement ... training ... atmosphere ... support !!! 

My challenge to you is that, how you answer these questions within the structure of 
your Camp operation will give you the answer to staff continuity. 

Ron Johnstone is Executive Administrator of Camp Tawingo in Huntsville, Ontario 






6IIC-800 NSSI 

iZZ NSW Old VINO OlNOdOl 
QVOd 30N3AV 9081 2 3±mS 


rs 



opouo.1 np <> ditto..? sop uopoposso 

ItOI/OIJOSSD SuidlUDO UmpDUOO 


% 




