OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 


CANADIAN CAMPING 


i^cbruavif iDiit. Toronto, Canada 





















Manufacturers 


of 


the famous 

Quickset 

Quality 

THE 

Food Products 

OUTDOOR FOOD 

for Camps 
anywhere 

FOR 

in Canada 

OUTDOOR PEOPLE 

Jelly Powders 

Pudding Powders 

Pie Fillings 

Cake Mixes 

Table Syrup 

camp - me 

Fruit Beverages 

Economical ready-to-go food units, 

Hot Chocolate 

packed in 4-man waterproof packages. 

Flavorings 

Just add water, cook and your meal is 

Soup Bases 

Marmalades 

ready. 

Jams 

"Cookout" cooking the modern way 

Instant Puddings 

—breakfasts, lunches, dinners. 

Fruit Pie Fillings 

"CAMP-RITE" Foods are on display at 

Distributors 

your conventions. 

Peak Frean Biscuits 


(Bulk Pack) 


GIBBONS 

FOODS LIMITED 

49 ADVANCE ROAD 

TELEPHONE BE. 2-1421 

TORONTO 18, CANADA 




From tents^g^I(lL,and equipment for 
camping out to co-ordinated furnishings 
for cabins, clubs or lodges, 

EATON’S Contract Sales ServiH^^^^^v. 



has it! Youngsters and adults like to 

go back _year after year 

to EATON-Tp? equipped camps 

where they can "rough it” ^|S| 
in comfort. And camp 
owners appreciate the way EATON 


Contract Sales experts assume full 


responsibility for any assignment, of 



any size, following through 
planning to completion.^ 

You deal with just one firm 



means less money, time and et 
you), but you get all the service 
you need, when you call in . . . 


; . • * ^ 4 , ■ 

EATON’S OF CANADA Contract Sales Service 



MONCTON MONTREAL * TORONTO WINNIPEG VANCOUVER 

Toronto, Canada, February 1961 43 








GET YOUR ORDERS IN NOW 
FOR BETTER ASSORTMENT 


WILL HOLD FOR CAMP OPENING 
LIMITED SUPPLY 


Our Usual Pre-camptime 
Offer of Substandards 


AT OUR USUAL 


Generous 

Discounts 


ALL STYLES 


MAPLEXWARE 

STYLEWARE 

VANGUARD 

MODERNE 


OUR "VANGUARD" STYLE 
With Draining and Stacking Features 


375 Danforth Road 
Toronto 13, Ont. 


• PAPER TOWELS • PAPER SERVIETTES 

• TOILET TISSUE • DISINFECTANTS 

• FIRE • CLEANING 

EXTINGUISHERS SOAPS 

• DEORORIZERS • WATER COOLERS 


• PAPER CUPS 

• TOILET SOAPS 

• WASTE 
RECEPTACLES 

• INSECTICIDES 


SANITATION 
FOR THE NATION 


G. H. WOOD & COMPANY, LIMITED 

TORONTO - MONTREAL - VANCOUVER 
Branches Across Canada 


44 


Canadian Camping 








THE AMERICAN CAMPING 
ASSOCIATION 



The Publication of 

TWO NEW BOOKS 


FUNDAMENTALS OF DAY GAMPING 

A NEW A.C.A. book by the Chairman of the A.C.A. Day 
Camp Committee who has, in a very concise, well- 
organized and most helpful fashion, laid down the funda¬ 
mentals essential to day camping and the compliance 
with day camping standards. Leadership, site, facilities, 
program, administration, health, safety, transportation, and 
all other factors involved in day camping are dealt with, 
with a view to aiding the newcomer and adding impetus 
and encouragement to the experienced director in the 
field. 256p. $4.50 

DIRECTORY OF CAMPS 

All camps in CANADA and the United States which are members of the 
American Camping Association are listed in this NEW 1961 edition of the 
Directory. Here is a reference which every camp director should have on 


his desk. $1.00 


Toronto, Canada, February 1961 45 








Extra QUALITY PAYS . . . 

and that is verified by the confidence of our customers, which continues 
year after vear. 

Foodcraft specialized foods offer many unique advantages and they sum 
up to what you want — distinctive quality meals at minimum cost. 

Write for information and samples now while you have time for thorough 
examination. No obligation whatever. 

• Specialized Foods • Specialized Service 


FOODCRAFT LABORATORIES LIMITED 

58-60 Duchess Street — Toronto 2, Ontario 
EMpirc 8-8088 

DISTRIBUTION ACROSS CANADA 


CAMP LEADERS: There are FREE CLASSES in LEATHERCRAFT 
for you at every Tandy store. Drop into the store nearest you and 
discuss your leathercraft program with the manager. Take ad¬ 
vantage of this opportunity to improve your own skill and expand 
your range of leathercraft projects. See these managers for 
expert help and advice: 

Edmonton - Bob Bjornstad Vancouver - John McNiven Winnipeg - Bob Hillis 
Toronto - Wray Thompson Barrie - Lorrie Clarke Montreal - Stan Rydzik 



THE MOST COMPLETE 
LEATHERCRAFT 
CATALOGUE 


6 STORES ACROSS CANADA 


ALBERTA 

EDMONTON, 9757 Jasper __GA. 4-5890 

BRITISH COLUMBIA 

VANCOUVER. 580 Howe Street .MU. 2-4813 

MANITOBA 

WINNIPEG, 232 Mian Street .WH. 3-0095 

ONTARIO 

TORONTO, 107 King St. E.EM. 2-4383 

BARRIE, John St.PA. 8-2481 

QUEBEC 


MONTREAL, 1218 Rue Drummond ..UN. 6-514J 


FREE: 

SEND FOR YOUR COPY TODAY 



46 


Canadian Camping 





















CANADIAN CAMPING 


Vol. 13 FEBRUARY, 1961 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


The Triad Image of Camping. 

Tell Us a Story. 

Putting First Things First. 

How Safe is Your Water?. 

Camp Counsellors Should Be 

Camp Counsellors . 

Starting a Sailing Program. 

Park Interpretation . 

Conference Program . 

Open Letter to Parents. 

For Your Camp Library ..... 

Sermons Under the Sun. 

In Quest of Answers. 

Woodfire and Candle-light . 

Prayer for Camp Leaders . 


.J. A. McIntyre 

.Mary S. Edgar 

.Wilbur Howard 

Ontario Department of Health 

.Mary L. Northway 

.O’Day Associates 

.Alan Helmsley 


.Joy M. Ballard 


.Hart Devenney 
Mary S. Edgar 


Cuts courtesy of Ontario Department of Lands and Forests 


No. 2 


49 

51 

53 

55 

56 
58 
60 
62 
64 
68 

71 

72 
77 
82 


CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

2233 Belgrave Avenue, Montreal 28, Quebec. 
HU. 9-1541 

Honorary President — Miss Mary Edgar 


Past Presidents 

Taylor Statten, Toronto 
Dais L. Gass, Montreal 
Anne I. Vail, Montreal 
W. E. (Ted) Yard, Toronto 
Irwin Haladner, Toronto 

President 

F. M. VanWagner, Montreal 

Vice Presidents 

James Mackie, Halifax 
K. H. Murray, Montreal 
Bud Gamble, Calgary 
Mrs. E. J. Sokol, Winnipeg 
Mis3 Margaret Govan, Toronto 


Office Secretary 

Miss Frances Kelly, 

2233 Belgrave Ave., Montreal 

Corresponding Secretary 
Mr. K. H. Murray, 

46 Surrey Drive 
Montreal 16. Que. 

Treasurer 

W. J. G. Hewetson, Montreal 

Publisher, Canadian Camping 
Fred Haiblen 

170 Bloor Street West, Toronto 
WA. 4-7117 


EDITORIAL COMMITTEE 

Barry Lowes (Chairman) Joyce Bertram, Margaret Govan, Katherine Anson, 
Kirk Wipper, W. E. Yard, Reg Blackstock, Eanswythe Flynn, John Gates. 


“CANADIAN CAMPING" IS PUBLISHED FOUR TIMES A YEAR BY THE CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
CO. FOR THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION AT 170 BLOOR ST. WEST, TORONTO, ONTARIO. SUB¬ 
SCRIPTION PRICES: MEMBERSHIP IN THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION INCLUDES CANADIAN 

CAMPING: TO NON-MEMBERS. 73 CENTS PER COPY, $2.75 PER YEAR. $5.00 FOR THREE YEARS. 

AUTHORIZED AS SECOND CLASS MAIL, POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT. OTTAWA. ONT. 


Toronto, Canada, February 1961 


47 




















GEORGE O'DAY SAYS 


Here’s a real 

assist for turning campers 

into sailors — fast! 


I960 OLYMPIC 
SAILING GOLD 
MEDALIST 


You've never read anything like 
this to give a neophyte confidence 
in trying to learn to sail. Sailing is 
easy and this book makes it look 
and sound easy and safe. 

You'll find it written in breezy, 
easy-to-understand language by 
Lorna Slocombe and George O'Day, 
1960 Olympic Sailing Gold Medal¬ 
list. The illustrations are priceless 
—amusing and to the point. You'll 
want one for every camper-sailor. 

Learning to sail at camp is great 
fun. Campers love it. We'd like 
to talk to you about camp sailing 
programmes and about the boats 
you need. 

Send a dollar for your copy of 
"Have Fun Learning to Sail" today. 
Quantity discounts so you can 
supply your camper-sailors. 


40 pages of illustrations and easy-to-understand 
instructions on sailing fundamentals. 


20 FRONT ST. W. TORONTO 1, ONT. 


48 


Canadian Camping 




EDITORIAL 


THE TRIAD IMAGE 
OF CAMPING 


It is unlikely that anyone widely 
experienced in camping will learn any 
startlingly new facts as a result of read¬ 
ing this paper. It may be, however, 
that some aspects of camping well 
known and possibly taken for granted, 
may be presented in a novel light. At 
the very least some readers may be chal¬ 
lenged to think again about these 
familiar patterns. It is this “thinking 
again” process that often is so produc¬ 
tive of novel and even unique ideas. 

Because there are a wide variety of 
expectations involved in any camp ex¬ 
perience, more than just two images 
exist of what camp should be. The 
image and hence expectation of the 
camp is different for the director, staff 
members, campers and parents. This 
is so both for the content of the camp¬ 
ing experience as well as the process. 

Not only is this a commonplace obser¬ 
vation but it is probably a truism. 
Nevertheless, contained in what the 
parent and child expect of the camp 
is’the-reciprocal aspect, the fulfillment 
of the expectations. Of all the images 
which exist about camp those possessed 
by the parent and child are the most 
significant in impact if not in influence 
upon the camp itself. The degree to 
which expectations are fulfilled deter¬ 
mines critical satisfaction or disappoint- 


by J. Archibald McIntyre 
Assistant Professor of Sociology 
University of Western Ontario 


ment. Whether or not satisfaction or 
disappointment occurs, that the child’s 
and parent’s images are of overriding 
importance, seems unassailable. 

Let us first examine the image the 
parent sees. 

The camp may be a means whereby 
the parent may achieve a holiday, some 
relief from the day-to-day tension of 
parenthood. In such circumstances the 
child is sent to camp coincident with 
the period of time the parent will be 
on holiday — frequently an extended 
trip. In this situation the child is sent 
to camp the essential image of which 
is that of a nurse maid or child-sitter. 
Of course, there may be ancillary ob¬ 
jectives to be achieved by the child, 
e.g., learning to swim or to handle a 
canoe, but the critical image for the 
parent is that the camp is a way of 
looking after the child. 

From another point of view the 
camp may be a means of obtaining for 
the child a series of new skills, perhaps 
achievable in few other ways. These 
may be principally physical skills, the 
ones traditionally associated with camp¬ 
ing. On the other hand what is sought 
may be the interpersonal skills, living 


Toronto, Canada , February 1961 


49 





with one’s peers in an allegedly more 
relaxed and informal environment. 

Presumably equally worthy, these 
images carry divergent implications and 
expectations. An important considera¬ 
tion is to what extent not only the camp 
director and parent but also the child 
share an understanding of these expec¬ 
tations. Undoubtedly the child is the 
most important member of this triad. 

The child may see the camp as some 
kind of penalty, a deprivation. He may 
prefer to be with his parents either at 
home or on their trip. Alternatively 
he may prefer to remain at home in 
familiar surroundings with playmates 
or friends he knows and with whom he 
enjoys pleasant times. With motivation 
such as this, camp at least at the outset 
will be less than a thrilling, eagerly 
anticipated, experience. 

On the other hand, the child may 
view the period at camp simply as a 
holiday, a freedom from accustomed 
restraint and responsibility. The kind of 
motivation supporting the “holiday” is 
more likely to produce resentment of 
the camp activities than enthusiastic 
co-operative response. In some cases, 
emerging from the motivation of the 
holiday, the camp staff may be re¬ 
garded as servants with all the resultant 
problems of conflicting expectations and 
frustration. 

Of course, there are many sides to 
this, not all of which are negative. The 
camper, even though unprepared for 
his new experience may enthusiastically 
welcome the change of scene realizing 
from it a rewarding and interesting op¬ 
portunity for self-development. It 
would be naive to assume that the 
camper embraces this experience with 
such positive purpose. As a by-product 
however, of an enjoyable experience it 
is something to which thousands of 
campers attest. 


It seems to the author that the results 
of the camp experience may often be 
less than satisfactory principally because 
the reciprocal preparation of the camp¬ 
er, the parents and the camp staff is 
inadequate, ineffectual or incomplete 
in other ways. 

That the camp experience is a triad 
of relationships is certainly not a revo¬ 
lutionary thought. Yet when the needs 
of each party to the triad is unknown, 
unclear, or ignored, less than satisfac¬ 
tory results will be achieved. As an 
example when the camper anticipates 
a pleasant holiday, the parent antici¬ 
pates an important learning experience 
for the child (by which is usually meant 
a correction of some patterns of be¬ 
haviour in the child which the parent 
has been unable to correct himself) and 
the camp staff are faced with the blend¬ 
ing of these somewhat divergent anti¬ 
cipations within a not too flexible pro¬ 
gram it seems obvious that some 
things might go awry. 

Such evidence suggests that a great 
deal more time, energy and inventive¬ 
ness ought to be devoted to more 
knowledge of the needs and expecta¬ 
tions of the parties to the triad. Equally 
important is attention to the inter¬ 
relationships among the triad during 
the camp experience. Implied is the 
necessity for the acceptance of campers 
to be based upon the most detailed 
familiarity with the personal needs, 
strengths and weaknesses of the camper 
coupled with parent and camper expec¬ 
tations of the camp. 

Of the greatest importance and most 
likely to be overlooked is the certain 
determination that the camper is aware 
of what other members of the triad 
expect of him, can do for him, and 
what he can reasonably expect to con¬ 
tribute and hence receive from camp. 


50 


Canadian Camping 



Till OS A STORY 

Mary S. Edgar 


A story is a magic key to a child’s mind and heart . 
Wise teachers and parents should make full use of it. 

Angelo Patri. 


Last summer a group of counselors- 
in-training were gathered by the fireside 
in my cabin, for a talk on “The Art of 
Story Telling”. It was the end of a busy 
camp day; the rain was beating against 
the windows; the fire burned brightly 
and the setting was perfect for stories. 
But I was scheduled for a lecture on 
story telling! Maybe it was a lucky 
break for the “Subs” that my notes had 
somehow been misplaced. “Just tell us 
stories instead!”, they begged, “and 
some other time give us the notes.” So 
that is what happened that rainy night. 
In the flicker of the firelight, I told 
story after story to a group of eighteen- 
year-olds, and no small child ever 
gave more rapt attention to a bedtime 
story than did those almost-grown-up 
campers. 

They had probably heard most of the 
stories before, for the tales have been 
told and retold to each succeeding 
group of campers for many summers, 
but there was the same eager response 
—the thrill of expectancy—the shining 
eyes and the clamor for “just one 
more”, which is an inspiration and 
unfailing satisfaction to any story teller. 
It was just an illustration of the 
accepted fact that we never become too 
grown-up to enjoy stories. Combined 
with woodfire and candlelight stories or 


poetry can grip the interest and stir the 
emotions of any group, young or old. 

It is because of the potential value of 
story telling in camp that we should 
place more and more emphasis on it in 
our evening programs. We should plan 
more opportunities for training and 
arrange to give counselors more chances 
to tell stories. Just as we learn to do by 
doing, so too, we learn to tell stories 
by telling them. Camp directors can 
give a great deal of encouragement 
to woulcl-be story tellers by providing 
them with suitable stories to tell; by 
giving them suggestions about how to 
prepare and tell a story, and by arrang¬ 
ing a definite time and place for them 
to meet their audience—perhaps at first 
a cabin group or a camping trip group, 
then a larger audience such as a sec¬ 
tion, and later possibly the entire camp 
group at a campfire or chapel service. 

Eventually the missing notes on “The 
Art of Story Telling” were located. It 
is with the hope that they might be of 
interest to a wider group, that they are 
condensed in this article. 

The art of story telling is the oldest 
art in the world. Long before there 
were books or scrolls written, there were 
stories told. In fact, that was the only 


Toronto 3 Canada, February 1961 


51 



way the oldest tales of every race were 
passed on and preserved, though a 
tremendous wealth of material has been 
lost. In the early days of every primi¬ 
tive people and, in fact, through long 
centuries, the story teller was a very 
important person. What books, news¬ 
papers, radio, theatres and television 
mean to our age, the art of the story 
teller meant to an earlier age. He 
passed down the myths, the legends, 
the fables and the great stories of his 
country’s heroes and history. 

One of the great masters of the art 
of story telling was Jesus. His stories 
made a lasting impression on those who 
heard them. Some of the stories or 
parables were learned from His own 
keen observation, like the Sower, some 
perhaps, were experiences remembered 
from childhood, like the story of the 
Lost Coin. However, many, probably, 
were stories to which He, too, had once 
eagerly listened, like the Prodigal Son 
and the Talents. These stories were 
remembered and retold for many long 
years before they were written down 
and preserved for us. 

In a later age of chivalry and adven¬ 
ture, the troubadour sang his ballads 
and the story teller told his tales in all 
the courts of Europe and Asia, and his 
was the scat of honor by the fire—some¬ 
times in great castle halls and some¬ 
times by the gypsyfirc under the stars. 

Compared to the past, story telling 
in the present day is almost a lost art. 
There are story hours occasionally on 
the radio and in children’s libraries, but 
the story teller is, for the most part, a 
professional in an uncrowded profes¬ 
sion. We must not, however, overlook 
the fact that a vast company of fathers 
and mothers still tuck their children 
into bed and cheerfully respond to the 
urgent demand for a story. Happy is 
the child who has memories of bed-time 
stories! 


If there is any place, however, where 
the art of story telling should be 
properly revived, it is in the summer 
camp, where every year increasing num¬ 
bers of boys and girls gather around the 
campfire, just as the primitve folk and 
the Indians and Pioneers did in the 
long ago. Away from the many com¬ 
petitive, commercial attractions of the 
city, the story teller regains his prestige 
and has amazing opportunities to trans¬ 
port a responsive audience to new 
worlds of adventure and romance. 

Anyone can master the art of story 
telling, provided they are keen enough 
about it. The most important way to 
make a story interesting is to be really 
interested in it yourself. Therefore, 
choose a story you like. Memorize it, 
or at least familiarize yourself with the 
sequence of events. In imagination, see 
things happen in technicolor as you 
describe them. Know the plot so well 
that no small disturbance can throw 
you off the trend of the story. Remem¬ 
ber that each story, well told, has a 
good beginning, a climax and a satis¬ 
factory ending. You need not apologize 
for telling the same story over and over 
again. If it is worth telling once, it is 
worth repeating. 

There are many inherent values in 
story telling. There is a physical value. 
It is relaxing just to listen to a talc 
unfold. Bed-time stories, if they arc not 
too exciting, promote a gradual drowsi¬ 
ness on the part of small children. It is 

turn to page 70 



52 


Canadian Camping 



A successful camp depends upon the 
discovery of what is first in camping 
and then upon putting it first. This 
sounds trite but it’s right. A little more 
difficult is how to determine just what 
does come first in camping. 

There arc some confusing contrasts 
in the field of camping. Some say that 
camp should offer the camper adven¬ 
ture, spiced with the sting of danger 
and the thrill of risk. Others say that 
camp should offer security. Some point 
to camp as an opportunity to get out 
of doors. Others, meanwhile, are build¬ 
ing deluxe dining halls and comfortable 
cabins. Some belong to the rough-it 
school, the let-the-rain-beat-in-your- 
face school. Others press hard for 


of the individual in a highly complex 
community which involves the adaptive 
social function of anxiety, the profes¬ 
sional services of such experts as psy¬ 
chologists, psychiatrists, group workers, 
case workers, dietitians, doctors, nurses, 
and counsellors who can fill in form 
249D8. There are those who tell us 
that camping means getting away from 
the city. On the other hand, there are 
those who say. “Straighten those 
trails!” “Prune those trees!” “Let’s go 
into town for a spree!” Some maintain 
that camp should present to the camper 
the joys of rest, sleep and leisurely liv¬ 
ing. Others are firm in the belief that 
camp should give the camper hills to 
climb, stiff swimming tests, back-break¬ 
ing portages, trails that are crooked, 


PUTTING 
FIRST . . 


FIRST THINGS 

Wilbur K. Howard 
Boys' Work Secretary 
Ontario Religious Education Council. 


greater safety, better sanitation—keep 
your feet dry. Some tell us that camp is 
important because it is a complete 
change from school. Others are equally 
vocal in asserting that camp is the most 
significant twentieth century education¬ 
al technique. Some contend that camp 
should offer campers a permissive at¬ 
mosphere— freedom from supervision. 
Others are busy defining the responsi¬ 
bilities of Gamp Directors, program 
directors, sectional directors, unit direc¬ 
tors. counsellors, assistant counsellors, 
counsellors in training, campers in train¬ 
ing for counsellors in training. Some 
have maintained that camping is simple 
living in the outdoors. Others have 
avowed that camping is the adjustment 


callouses on the palms. And then there 
are those who hold out that camp 
should take the camper away from the 
strains and stresses of civilization only 
to be completely frustrated by those 
who contend that camping must save 
the world. 

However, in spite of confusing con¬ 
trasts and conflicting opinions, there is 
one important common factor in the 
field of camping—human personality. 
The end product in camping is not a 
tin of tomato soup, a plastic bowl or a 
frigidairc. It is human personality. Il 
would seem reasonable to suggest, then, 
that what we put first in camping is 
the highest development of human 
personality. 


Toronto , Canada , February 1961 


53 



Putting the highest development of 
human personality first puts camping in 
line with the greatest purposes and 
ultimate achievements of mankind. It 
gives camping a purpose that money 
can’t buy or rules can’t force. It gives 
camping a purpose that is bigger than 
camping itself. 

What does putting the highest devel¬ 
opment of human personality first mean 
for the camp owner? It means that 
the camp owner, like the school teacher, 
the social worker or the minister, 
must be motivated by a desire to ren¬ 
der unselfish service through helping 
his fellow man. 

What does putting the highest devel¬ 
opment of human personality first mean 
for camp leadership? It means that in 
approaching a potential camp leader 
your primary concern will not be, has 
he had any camping experience, but 
rather, how does he stack up in the 
business of living?—has he got the 
ability to influence significantly the atti¬ 
tudes and behaviour of other persons? 
It will mean not only a careful examin¬ 
ation of written references but a knowl¬ 
edge of the ability of the persons who 
gave the references. It will mean the 
follow-up of written references with 
personal conversation. It is surprising 
the things that people know that they 
would never think of writing down. It 
will mean securing references that will 
tell you something about the total per¬ 
sonality of the potential leader, not just 
one or two outstanding things in which 
he excels. 

Being concerned first about the high¬ 
est development of human personality 
will mean a new status for the counsel¬ 
lor. It is in the small tent or cabin 
groups that campers are most influenc¬ 
ed. The counsellor in his field must be 
just as much an expert as the riding in¬ 
structor, the swimming instructor or 


the camp nurse. The counsellor must 
understand the campers with whom he 
works. He must have a genuine liking 
for his campers. This will be indicated 
not only in the way he acts when he is 
with his campers, but also the way he 
talks about his campers when he lets 
down his hair in front of his fellow 
counsellors. The counsellor must have 
the necessary know-how regarding the 
philosophy of camping, group work, 
the techniques of leadership. If the 
counsellor is expected to keep neat and 
accurate records, he must be given 
adequate facilities to do so efficiently. 
Help in regard to records is indicated 
if the records take so much time that 
the counsellor is forced to be away from 
his cabin group when the group needs 
him. This paper curtain between coun¬ 
sellor and cabin group must be done 
away with. It may mean introducing 
better and quicker ways of doing re¬ 
cords such as the use of dictaphones, 
tape recorders, stenographic help. 

What does this primary concern for 
the highest development of human per¬ 
sonality mean for the camper? It means 
that the campers have a real share in 
the running of the camp. Wilbur G. 
Hallenbeck, of Teachers College, Col¬ 
umbia University, has said: “One of 
the things most devastating to human 
personality is that characteristic of our 
modern world which has deprived indi¬ 
viduals of their right to have something 
to say about what happens to them.” 
Houseman said the same thing in an¬ 
other way— 

“I am alone and afraid 
In a world I never made.” 

This concern about human personal¬ 
ity means that every camper will be 
recognized as a unique individual. It 
has been said that nature never makes 

turn to page 70 


54 


Canadian Camping 




J4ow Safe U 


“When is a water supply safe for 
drinking and domestic use?” This is a 
question that is asked frequently. It is 
a very real problem for the householder 
in the smaller places and in the coun¬ 
try. as well as for the vacationist and 
tourist. To answer this question two 
suggestions arc offered. The first is to 
have a sample of the water analyzed 
at one of the laboratories of the Pro¬ 
vincial Department of Health, and the 
other is to learn how wells and other 
water supplies receive pollution, and 
how they can be protected. 

The Provincial Department of 
Health operates laboratories at the 
following centres: Toronto (main 
laboratory at 360 Christie Street), 
London, Peterborough, Kingston, Ot¬ 
tawa, North Bay, Sault Ste. Marie, 
St. Catharines, Timmins, Fort William, 
Kirkland Lake, Kitchener, Stratford, 
Kenora, Orillia, Cornwall, Sarnia, 
Windsor and Woodstock. Sterile bot¬ 
tles for collection of samples may be 
obtained from any local health officer 
or by addressing a request to “The 
Branch Laboratoiy, Provincial Depart¬ 
ment of Health”, at any of the above 
centres. Full information accompanies 
the container. Reports on these analy¬ 
ses furnish useful information, but it is 
well to keep in mind that the bacteriolo¬ 
gical content of water may vary from 
time to time, and a correct interpreta¬ 
tion of the quality can be made only 
after several samples, taken over a 
period of time, have been examined. 
One good analysis does not necessarily 
mean safe water. 

When water shows contamination it 
is well to determine the origin of the 
pollution, and by what channel it 


y[our lAJatex ? 

Reprinted from a bulletin issued by the 
Ontario Department of Health. 

reaches the supply. This is not difficult 
when knowledge on probable sources 
of contamination is available. 

Rural water supplies are taken 
chiefly from shallow dug wells, and 
these offer the least resistance of any 
type to drainage and contaminating 
matter. It is known that the most 
common portals through which pollu¬ 
tion may reach a well are, (a) the top 
and sides near the surface, and (b) 
the underground drainage or water 
supply feeding the well. The latter is 
uncommon except where the well is 
constructed in fissured rocks or where 
the ground water is close to the surface. 

Pollution of shallow dug wells 
through the tops and sides is by far 
the most common occurrence. When 
these are not watertight, rain-water 
and splashings from the pump spout 
will carry into the well any dirt and 
germs which have been left on or near 
the well by animals and from other 
sources. 

These wells can be protected readily 
against surface drainage. The top, and 
the sides for a distance of ten feet 
below the surface should be watertight. 
Care is needed to ensure that no drain¬ 
age can enter around the pump base 
or at the manhole in the top. 

Disinfection of Wells 

A temporary method of disinfecting 
a well consists of emptying the contents 
of a small package of chloride of lime 
(about 12 ozs.) into a pail, adding a 
little water and mixing to a paste, care 
being taken to break up all the lumps. 
The pail is then filled with water and 
the contents stirred and allowed to 
settle to the bottom. The supernatant 
turn to page 79 


Toronto , Canada , February 1961 


55 


Camp Counsellors 

&f)oulb be Camp Counsellors; 


Mary L. Northway, 
Institute of Child Study, 
University of Toronto . 


The modern camp counsellor appar¬ 
ently should be a mixture of Superman 
and an archangel. It has been sug¬ 
gested that he be trained, presumably 
at the graduate level in sociology, psy¬ 
chotherapy, group dynamics and per¬ 
haps even nuclear physics. He is also 
expected to possess personality charac¬ 
teristics of intelligence, interest, hones¬ 
ty, tact, perseverance, diligence, toler¬ 
ance, sympathy and, for good measure, 
a fine sense of humour. In time, per¬ 
haps, the human species will evolve 
such creatures; meanwhile, camp direc¬ 
tors who want a staff must choose ordi¬ 
nary human beings and accept the 
varieties of virtues and frailties in¬ 
herent in them. 

As long as we have to use human 
beings for our counsellors, we must 
expect them to have both variety of 
training and variation of personality. 
But among the many possible assets 
the camp counsellor may have, it seems 
to me that he must have two: ability 
to camp and ability to counsel. 

To camp means to live simply in 
the outdoors and to enjoy it. For many 
city dwellers this is not easy. One has 
to be clever to live simply . And one has 
to know, understand and love the out¬ 
door world to be comfortable in it. 

The counsellor should therefore pos¬ 
sess the skills for outdoor living which 
his particular camp situation requires. 
Camps themselves vary from the sum¬ 


mer hotel to the barracks, from cen¬ 
tralized regimentation to decentralized 
primitive living, from the school to the 
holiday, from the expensive to the free; 
some being situated in the lake coun¬ 
try, others in the mountains or fields. 
One is reminded of the four-year-old 
who, seeing a St. Bernard, asked his 
mother; “What’s that?” “That’s a 
dog, dear; you know what a dog is.” 
“Yes”, he replied, “but some dogs look 
like dogs.” So some camps look like 
camps, but within the species there is 
as much variety to be found as amongst 
different breeds of dogs. 

It is difficult, therefore, to say just 
what skills the camp counsellor must 
possess, other than that he needs those 
which are appropriate to the type of 
camp. If he goes to a camp in the lake 
country, he should be able to manage 
boats, to feel secure in and on the 
water, to build fires, pitch tents, cook 
meals and to understand the weather. 
He should feel comfortable and know 
how to help his campers live comfort¬ 
ably in the out-of-doors life of his 
camp. Camping skills are important, 
not as ends, but means to satisfy out¬ 
door living. 

As well as skills for outdoor living, 
he should be interested in the outdoor 
world. This does not mean he should 
be a “nature study expert”, but rather, 
that he should be curious about the 
natural world. He need not send his 


56 


Canadian Camping 



campers to gather ten different plants 
and know their names, but he should 
feel the delight, which is contagious, in 
seeing plants grow, in watching the 
changing colour of the countryside, in 
appreciating the intricacies of tree 
growth and decay, in making effort to 
improve the natural resources of the 
camp site, in understanding the wider 
implications of conservation. He should 
know the value of time spent in doing 
nothing but watching. There are such 
good things to watch in the outdoors— 
waves breaking on beaches, stars gradu¬ 
ally appearing in their constellations, 
northern lights, a sandpiper by the 
shore, skylines and the great white 
clouds on a blue summer day. There 
are good things, too, to hear—the loon’s 
cry, a whippoorwill, the wind in the 
tops of the pine trees, the very strange 
silence of a still night. 

So often at camp there is no time left 
to stop and smell wood smoke or touch 
the softness of sphagnum or a clover 
patch on a hot summer day. “Program” 
is often so full there is no time left for 
living. Yet from enjoyment and obser¬ 
vation of the outdoor world, interest 
is aroused in “why things happen” and 
from such why’s, questions basic to 
science, philosophy and even religion 
are aroused—questions fundamental to 
the nature of the world and the human 
being’s place in it. The first quality, 
then, a counsellor must have is to be 
able to camp—to know how to live 
in the outdoors and to be interested in 
the natural world. 

The second quality a counsellor 
should have is the ability to counsel, to 
guide children’s development subtly yet 
surely. This depends primarily on the 
counsellor being interested in children 
—more interested in children than in 
himself. It is fairly easy to thrust one’s 
own interests on children, more diffi¬ 
cult to become interested in theirs. For 
children’s interests are definitely “child¬ 
ish”. And many counsellors, because of 


their own insecurities, feel it is slightly 
undignified to be concerned with the 
trivial activities youngsters enjoy. 

A college undergraduate at camp 
may find himself in charge of a group 
of five-year-olds. Filled with his own 
enthusiasms, he resolves to get these 
guys toughened up into athletes and 
turned into miniature replicas of him¬ 
self. So he herds them down to boat 
practice, boxing, or takes them on en¬ 
durance hikes. Through the use of 
badges, prizes, marks or the persuasion 
of his own dynamic personality, he in¬ 
culcates “interests”, but they are his 
interests. 

It is a much more difficult task to be 
interested in the interests of his camp¬ 
ers. The young adult seems to forget 
what it was like to be a child. Later, 
one again remembers. So if the counsel¬ 
lor cannot recall what it felt like at 
five to jump into fresh hay in a nearby 
farm field, or build a sand castle with 
a moat around it, or swing from trees, 
his best policy is to sit back and watch 
and listen. It is very difficult to recall 
the thrill of fishing for shiners or wading 
up a stream to see where it goes, or 
putting on a play that has seven acts 
in five minutes and no conclusion. But 
these may be of vital importance to 
the young child. The counsellor may 
say: “If we just let those youngsters 
play around at these things, they aren’t 
learning anything.” Aren’t they? Per¬ 
haps they are learning to enjoy life and 
to discover the possibilities of expressing 
interest in happy, constructive activity. 
Indeed, it is a travesty of adult modern 
life, we are so busy with recreation we 
have no time for play. We take so long 
being educated, we never get around to 
living. 

If the counsellor has forgotten what 
children like to do, he may also have 
forgotten what it feels like to be very 
young. To a child the camp dining 

turn to page 76 


Toronto, Canada, February 1961 


57 


Starting 

A 

Sailing 

Program 


by Sailing Program Adviser 
O’Day Associates of Canada Ltd. 



As sailing rapidly becomes the biggest 
mass participation sport in the country, 
more organizations, clubs, recreational 
centers, and educational groups find 
themselves inquiring into the possibility 
of setting up a sailing program. The 
fact that sailing is now a competitive 
sport in better than 150 colleges and 
schools in the United States and Can¬ 
ada, has only heightened the interest 
in this sport. 

Before the advent of fiberglass, the 
problems of maintenance of sailboats 
prohibited many from even considering 
a sailing program. 

Anyone who has observed a group of 
youngsters learning to sail soon realizes 
that there are few other sports which 
ofFer more of a challenge and at the 
same time show him or her the import¬ 
ant lessons to be learned in good sports¬ 
manship, such as coordination, coopera¬ 
tion, responsibility, judgment, etc. 

What are the essentials of a sailing 
program at a camp? 

Perhaps the first essential for any 
kind of a boat program is equipment, 
and number one on the list of equip¬ 
ment is, of course, a body of water. 
Second on the list of essentials in equip¬ 
ment is a fleet of boats. How many 
boats actually depends pretty much on 
how many campers there are. In addi¬ 
tion to a fleet of sailboats, a launch is 
an absolute must for use in towing boats 
and supervising a class. For the launch, 
any kind of a powerboat is suitable, 
even a rowboat with a small outboard 
on it. Other equipment would include 
a storeroom or shed for equipment, 
such as sails, rope, repair materials, 
etc. Also, there should be some suitable 
place to dry the sails and to give black¬ 
board instructions, both indoors and 
outdoors. 




58 


Canadian Camping 



Among the facilities, it is helpful if 
there is a dock of the simple “L” or 
“T” design, preferably with an apron 
along the landing face so that the rig¬ 
ging will not be damaged by any part 
of the boat passing beneath the edge 
of the dock. The dock height above 
the water should be such as to facili¬ 
tate easy and safe boarding and to 
provide convenience in making dock* 
side adjustments to rigging. It is also 
advisable to have a raft that may be 
moored offshore for practice landings 
from all directions regardless of wind 
direction. 

Other facilities which need to be 
considered is space which can be used 
for accessory equipment such as oars, 
oarlocks, one or two bilge pumps and 
boat sponges, some bailing cans or 
scoops. 

The problem of an instructor for a 
course in sailing can be solved with a 
college student who has graduated from 
a junior sailing program at a boat, 
yacht club, or camp and who may be 
currently participating in col lege sailing. 
The Red Gross conducts a small craft 
school course in sailing to which many 
camp directors send their counsellors 
for training in the execution of a sail¬ 
ing program. 

The kind of sailboat for use in such 
a program depends a lot on the size of 
the camp, the age of the students, the 
location of the camp, and the budget. 
Most youngsters can be taught to sail 
in any type of sailboat, although one 
with a jib is naturally preferable to a 
catrigged boat. Youn gpeople learn to 
sail very fast, and once they have mas¬ 
tered a catrigged boat (which has only 
one sail), they are restless and eager 
to learn to master a sloop rigged boat 
which carries two sails, the mainsail 
and jib. Anything under 18' is accept¬ 
able. and whether you decide to buy a 
fleet of ten 8' to 10' boats, or three 


16J/2' boats depends a lot on where the 
sailing is going to be done and whether 
you want to have racing included in 
your sailing program or just a course 
in the fundamentals of sailing. 

As far as a schedule of classes is 
concerned, because of the vagaries of 
wind conditions and the time necessar¬ 
ily consumed in rigging and subse¬ 
quently securing all gear, two hour 
sailing periods are recommended. 
Shorter periods, necessary because of 
the scheduled activities, are practicable 
only with very good planning. In camps 
the scheduling of these periods will be 
somewhat predetermined because of 
the many other camp activities. It is 
wise to take into account the wind 
habits on a given body of water so that 
scheduling a sailing class for a time of 
day that is characteristically calm may 
be avoided. If more than one group 
is taking sailing instruction during the 
day, some sort of rotation system would 
be best so that one group will not get 
sailing weather that is regularly superior 
to the weather during the time the 
other group meets. 

No student should be enrolled who 
does not know how to swim, a mini¬ 
mum of 50 yards, and every possible 
precaution in safety should be taken in 
working with students of sailing. It is 
a well known fact that far fewer drown- 
ings are associated with sailboats than 
in any other small craft. The reason for 
this is that the beginning sailor does not 
permit himself to go out on the water 
without knowing what the hazards are 
and taking the necessary precautions to 
deal with them. 

In setting up a course in sailing, the 
material to be covered in a series of 
eight lessons of two hours each, might 
be set up as follows: 

turn to page 80 


Toronto , Canada , February 1961 


59 



The term, "Park Interpretation” is 
comparatively new in Canada and 
probably requires an explanation. It 
may be defined at the art of imparting, 
to park visitors, accurate information 
concerning the park environment 
which includes geology, topography, 
climate, soil, flora, fauna and human 
history. The term, “interpretation”, 
although academically correct, is not 
in general use and perhaps “Naturalist 
Program” is more meaningful to park 
visitors. 

The methods employed in park in¬ 
terpretation consist of museum exhib¬ 
its, outdoor exhibits, labelled trails, 
conducted hikes, illustrated lectures 
and publications. The aims of these 
services are to familiarize park visitors 
with the park and to provide the basis 
for a greater understanding of tin* 
natural environment. From this under¬ 
standing comes a deeper appreciation 
and more enjoyment. The park, there¬ 
fore, becomes more meaningful. 

The Department of Lands and For¬ 
ests began its provincial park inter¬ 
pretive service in 1944 in Algonquin 
Provincial Park. Today, there are five 
complete programs of museums, la¬ 
belled trails, conducted trips and illus¬ 
trated lectures in Algonquin, Rondeau, 
Sibley, Quetico and Presqu’ile Pro¬ 
vincial Parks. In addition, there are 
outdoor exhibits to tell the story of 
pioneer logging in Algonquin Provin¬ 
cial Park, the geology of Craigleith 
Provincial Park and the archaeology in 
Serpent Mounds Provincial Park. Also, 
Sibhald Point Provincial Park has the 
historic house which contains the Sib- 
bald Memorial Museum and another 
museum on Nancy Island, near Wa- 
saga Beach Provincial Park, tells the 
story of H.M. Schooner, Nancy. 

A museum and its exhibits present 
the visitor with a brief capsule of the 
park and emphasize the significance 
of that particular park. The visitor’s 
attention is drawn to the main points 


Park 

in t vrprutntinn 

by Alan F. Hehnsley 



of interest and he is encouraged to see 
them first hand while he is in the park. 
The museum, therefore, provides the 
key and the introduction to the park. 
In each park museum the exhibits are 
confined to the interpretation of the 
specific park. Collections and exhibit 
material which are not significant in 
this purpose are omitted. 

Reference collections are not on dis¬ 
play but arc accessible upon request 
for the more serious visitor. Gradually, 
as the collections of plants and animals 
increase, a complete story of the park’s 
flora and fauna is developed. 

A very useful interpretive method is 
the outdoor exhibit which may be lo¬ 
cated at the actual site to be inter¬ 
preted. The use of maps, diagrams, 
texts and photographs explains exactly 
what the visitor is seeing in that par¬ 
ticular place. 

All trails leading through natural 
areas are nature trails. Although they 
provide access to such areas, they do 
not offer interpretation. To meet this 


60 


Canadian Camping 





need, labels drawing attention to and 
explaining the various natural history 
aspects of the trail have been devised 
to make the trail more meaningful. 
Along such trails are labelled the vari¬ 
ous mosses, ferns, herbaceous flowering 
plants, shrubs and trees. Every oppor¬ 
tunity is taken to point out evidences 
of wildlife and stress is placed upon the 
dependence of animals, in general, up¬ 
on plant life which, in turn, depends 
upon soil and climate. The different 
types of forests are pointed out and 
visitors are made aware of the history 
of the forests. 

The labelled trail is popular because 
visitors may use it in their own time, 
at their leisure. Some visitors merely 
use it as a walking route. Others study 
the labels and visit the trails many 
times. 

The conducted hike has the advan¬ 
tage of personal contact between visi¬ 
tors and the park naturalist. The lat¬ 
ter may gear his interpretation to his 
group which may be all children, all 
adults or a mixture of family groups. 
In any event, the conducted trip is a 
treatment of the trail environment and 
all its life as it appears along the trail. 
Visitors are encouraged to ask ques¬ 
tions and the whole procedure is most 
informal. Conducted hikes are publi¬ 
cized widely throughout the parks with 
schedules of the meeting places and 
times during July and August. 

Illustrated lectures or talks, really, 
because they are quite informal, have 
an important place in park interpreta¬ 
tion. They may be used to present 
certain aspects of the park environment 
which are not available during the 
summer. Visitors particularly enjoy 
seeing pictures of the park in the 
spring, autumn and winter. The talks 
also form a contact with visitors who 
are not free, or are not able to partici¬ 
pate in a conducted hike or to visit a 
labelled trail. 


Publications make a great contribu¬ 
tion to park interpretation in that they 
may be sent to visitors who can prepare 
for their park visit. Also, visitors may 
keep the publications for reference. 
Most interpretive literature consists of 
check-lists of the flora and fauna of 
certain parks. This provides a guide to 
the plants and animals which are 
found in the park. 

It is difficult to measure the success 
of park interpretive programs. The 
public response, as indicated by the 
ever-increasing attendance figures, has 
been great. 'Phis, perhaps, is some 
measure. In 1960, the attendance at 
park museums was 283,000; the nature 
trails were used by 47,000 park visitors, 
conducted hikes attracted 7,000 people 
and the illustrated talks were attended 
by 24,000 visitors. In addition, a num¬ 
ber of children’s camps were visited by 
park naturalists, mainly in the Port 
Arthur area in Sibley Provincial Park. 

The most activity in children’s 
camps occurs in Algonquin Provincial 
Park where there are seven such 
camps. In former years, each camp 
was visited by park naturalists who 
gave illustrated talks and, on occasions, 
conducted hikes for children about the 
camp area. Due to staff demands and 
the increased use of the public pro¬ 
gram in Algonquin Provincial Park, 
these visits had to be cancelled. In¬ 
stead, counsellors were urged to attend 
a special course for nature counsellors 
so that they, in turn, could carry on a 
naturalist program in their camps. 

Nature work is gradually increasing 
in most children’s camps where for 
many years the emphasis has been on 
water sports, drama, choirs, handi¬ 
crafts and the numerous other pro¬ 
gram activities. Little attention has 
been paid to the natural environment 
which makes the camp environment 
possible. Usually, children returned to 
their homes with little knowledge of/or 
experience in the outdoors, itself. One 
turn to page 78 


Toronto , Canada , February 1961 


61 



CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 
and 

ONTARIO CAMPING ASSOCIATION CONFERENCE 
PROGRAM OUTLINE 

King Edward Hotel, Toronto - March 22-23-24, 1961 
Thursday, March 22 

8.00 p.m.—Elizabeth Room—Canadian Camping Association Annual Meeting 
Friday, March 23rd 

Registration 8.15 to 9.00 a.in. 

Morning-—two sessions. 9.00 a.m. and 10.45 a.m. 

Dr. Mary Northway—“The Camper—1961”. 

Afternoon 1.30—New Directors—Building and Maintenance—W. Bert¬ 

ram Danson. 

The Junior Camper—Elsie Palter. 

The Intermediate Camper—Jack Eastaugh. 

The Senior Camper—Ted Yard. 

(The above sessions on campers are an extension of 
Dr. Northway’s sessions.) 

3.45—What’s new?—Barry Lowes. 

New Directors—Administration, etc.—Clifford Labbett. 
Camp Craft for Directors—Catherine Hammett (Past 
President of A.C.A.). 

7.15—Social Flour (A special opportunity for the members to 
meet their Executive). 

8.00—Standards—Progress report by David Palter. 

Guest Speaker—Paul Provencher. 

Film—“The Direct Method”—artificial respiration— 
mouth to mouth. 

Exhibitors’ Social Hour. 

Saturday, March 24th 
Registration 8.15-9.00 a.m. 

9.00—Camp Craft—Catherine Hammett. 

Pre-Camp Training—Elizabeth Raymer. 

Special Days—Margaret Govan. 

Nature Lore—Brian Blackstock and staff of Island 
School. 

Swimming—program, etc.-—June Labbett and panel. 
11.00—Arts and Crafts—R. Cope. 

Waterfront Construction—M. McMartin. 

Canoe Tripping Practices—P. Gilbert. 

Nature Lore—Brian Blackstock. 

Camp Craft—Catherine Hammet 
Kitchen Problems—panel. 

Lunch 12.15—Central YMCA ($1.50). Guest Speaker — Gunnar 

Peterson—“Day Camping Looks Ahead”. 

Open Meeting for all people interested. 

2.00—“The Camper”—leader to be announced. 

Canoeing—University Settlement Pool—Kirk Wipper. 
Building and Maintenance—Leader to be announced. 


62 


Canadian Camping 



Evening Program—leader to be announced. 

Red Cross—open discussion on aspects of program. 
Day Camping— 

Program Planning. 

Staff Training. 

Day Camp Sites and Facilities. 

Day Camp Practices. 

C.I.T. Report—Margaret Walker. 

R.L.S.S.—The New Look. 

Vesper and Chapel Services—Rev. D. Bradford. 
Survival and Existing in the Wilderness—Kirk Wipper. 
Photography in Camp—Don Virgo. 

Day Camp Forum—Gunnar Peterson. 

Banquet 7.00— 

Canadian Court —Guest Speaker—Mr. Wilbur Howard. 


. . . Conference Speakers . . . 


MARY L. NORTHWAY, Ph.D. 

Dr. Northway is Assistant Professor, De- 
Department of Psychology, University of 
Toronto and Supervisor of Research at the 
Institute of Child Study. For many years 
on the staff of Glen Bernard Camp, Dr. 
Northway became an expert in the field of 
sociometry, the first study of which was done 
in a summer camp setting. She still enjoys 
the camping life but now likes to have it ac¬ 
companied with increasing measures of com¬ 
fort for herself and her friends. During the 
past year she has been active as President of 
the Northway Company. Dr. Northway is the 
author of over 100 publications in the form 
of articles and books, chiefly on the sub¬ 
jects of sociometry and camping. 

Catherine Hammett 

Miss Catherine Hammett is Director 
and Co-Owner of Derrybrook, a Train¬ 
ing Center for Outdoor Living in Ver¬ 
mont. Former camper, counsellor and 
Director in Girl Scout Camps in the 
U.S.A., Miss Hammett is, at present 
the Program Director for 1962 Senior 
Girl Scout Roundup—a gathering of 
8500 High School girls and 1500 adults 
—to be held in Vermont. She is the 
author of Your Own Book of Camp- 
craft, co-author of The Camp Program 
Book and Creative Crafts for Campers, 
A Director Trains His Own Staff and 
many articles and pamphlets on camp 
leadership, campcraft skills and camp 
programming. Past President of ACA. 


Wilbur Howard 

Mr. Wilbur Howard is, at the present 
time, Associate Editor of Sunday School 
Publications for the United Church of 
Canada. A graduate in Theology from 
Emmanuel College, Toronto, Mr. How¬ 
ard was ordained in 1941. Long a 
friend of camping, he is well-known 
for his outstanding contributions to the 
work of young people throughout the 
country. 

Gunnar Peterson 

Mr. Gunner Peterson is the Director 
of Outdoor Education for the Chicago 
City Missionary Society. He came to 
the Society’s staff in 1958 from the 
faculty of George Williams College, 
Chicago where he was Director of Stu¬ 
dent Activities and Assistant Professor 
of Camping and Recreation. Mr. 
Peterson is the Past President of the 
Chicago section of the American Camp¬ 
ing Association and the current nation¬ 
al vice-president of the A.C.A. 

Paul Prouenclier 

Mr. Paul Provencher is one of the 
greatest living authorities on Canadian 
wild life. He has spent the greater part 
of his life in the woods and on the lakes 
and rivers in remote parts of Canada, 
and brings to his lectures, articles and 
books all the romance of a twentieth 
century voyageur or coureur de bois. 


Toronto , Canada , February 1961 


63 



AN OPEN LETTER 

TO PARENTS 

RE THEIR CHILD'S HEALTH 


Adapted from an article in 
Town Talk About Camps 

by Joy M . Ballard , B.A., M.D., 

Camp Doctor , 

Camp Waseosa, Huntsville, Ontario. 
Dear Parent: 

Nothing spoils a child’s summer 
faster than a prolonged stay in the 
health center. At camp we make every 
effort to ensure that your child has a 
safe, healthy summer. To achieve 
these goals we engage a competent 
medical staff for our well equipped 
health center, which is inspected by 
the Department of Health and main¬ 
tain the highest standards of sanitation, 
nutrition and supervision. 

You can play an important part and 
help greatly to insure a healthy, happy 
holiday for your child by reading this 
letter carefully and using the sugges¬ 
tions as a guide. 

Prior to the day of departure the 
camper must have a medical examina¬ 
tion by the family doctor and arrive at 
camp with a signed Health Certificate. 
June appointments for a medical 
examination should be made well in 
advance. February or March is none 
too early to reserve a date, since doc¬ 
tors are burdened with such appoint¬ 
ments just before camp opens. 

The camp provides a medical health 
form, which, when filled out, presents 
a concise but complete history of your 


child’s health. The parent will care¬ 
fully indicate in the camper’s childhood 
diseases, recent operations, allergies, as 
well as need for, and dates of, immun¬ 
ization shots. If your child is known to 
be allergic to any drugs or medication 
— e.g., sulpha, penicillin, Tetanus 
Antitoxin—these should be listed. 

Some children are allergic to bee or 
wasp stings or other insect bites; others 
are subject to annually recurring at¬ 
tacks of poison ivy. If any such con¬ 
dition exists, the camp doctor or nurse 
should be advised. 

If the child is receiving any regular 
medication of any kind, a sufficient 
supply of it, enough to last for the 
length of his stay at camp, should be 
sent, along with instructions as to the 
dosage. All medicines should be hand¬ 
ed directly to the camp director, doc¬ 
tor, nurse or senior staff person in 
charge. If medicines arc packed in the 
child’s baggage, a note to that effect 
should be sent to the director, so that 
the counsellor may deliver them to the 
medical staff who will dispense them as 
directed. 

Give details of any possible dietary 
restrictions the child may have—i.e.: 
allergies to certain foods. Every effort 

turn to page 67 


64 


Canadian Camping 




th 

consecutive year. 


more camp advertisers use 
PARENTS’ MAGAZINE than 


any other national magazine! 



REACH 1,850,000 RESPONSIVE FAMILIES 
WITH OVER 4,250,000 CHILDREN. 
Place your advertising schedule now! 


For rales and details, 

write or phone Josephine E. Chrenko, Director, School and Camp Dept. 

PARENTS' MAGAZINE, 52 Vanderbilt Avc., N. V. 17 • MUrray Hill 5-4400 


£amps advertise consistently in 
parents’ because their messages produce 
not only a satisfactory number 
of enrollments, but also the kind of 
enrollments they want. 

Such results reflect the confidence which 
families with children have in 
parents’ magazine. To mothers and 
fathers, a camp advertisement in 
parents’, the magazine they trust, has 
the effect of a personal recommendation. 


WAT ARE 
FATHERS FOR? 


BOAT ACCESSORIES 

for every type of Water Craft 

A complete line of equipment for every marine need carried in 
our showrooms — 

SAILS - HARDWARE - ROPE - CANVAS - PAINTS - VARNISHES 
GLUES and COMPOUNDS, Etc. 

TOM TAYLOR LIMITED 

The Best in Quality and Service 

81 Front Street East EMpire 3-8761-2 Toronto, Ontario 


Toronto, Canada , February 1961 


65 





No matter whether your campers 
bicycle, canoe, hike or ride horseback, 
you must have the best in Camping 
Insurance. And there’s only one BEST 
— sold by the pioneers in this essential 


rCkS 


coverage. 


Our policies cover 


*SB5! 



• Polio And Dread Diseases • Medical Reimbursement 

• Epidemic • Accidental Death 

• Dismemberment • Tuition Refund 


Best in 
Coverage 


THE SIGN OF GOOD SERVICE 


Best in 
Service 


VERMONT ACCIDENT INSURANCE 

Rutland, Vermont, U.S.A. 

Member American Camping Association 



J. II. Beattie 

TORONTO 


430 Eglinton Avenue West 
Toronto 12 — Ontario 


Every effort is made by the staff of J. H. BEATTIE to be sure CAMPERS arrive at 
camp fully equipped as requested by each camp. All clothing, bedding and equip¬ 
ment is carefully selected for durability and fit, at the most reasonable prices. 


• SEWING ON NAME TAPES 

Each boy's name sewn on all clothing 
and equipment purchased, at no extra 
cost to the customer. Customer to supply 
rhe name tapes. 


66 


Telephone 
HUdson 1-4459 


Canadian Camping 





from page 64 

is made at camp to see that the child 
receives a balanced, nutritious and 
appetizing diet. Some children have 
very strong likes and dislikes as far as 
foods are concerned, and will refuse 
necessary food just because they do 
not care for it. As a matter of prin¬ 
ciple, the child will be encouraged to 
eat a small portion of everything unless 
he is known to be allergic to a specific 
food. 

If the child is unduly susceptible to 
sunburn, send sunburn lotion or cream 
with him, with instructions to use it 
regularly whenever he is apt to be 
exposed to the sun. Please send such 
lotions or creams in tubes or plastic 
bottles. Glass bottles break and could 
cause dangerous cuts. 

Every camper should go to the den¬ 
tist prior to departure for camp, and 
have any necessary work performed. 
If an orthodontic or other dental ap¬ 
pliance is being worn, information 
should be sent to the director or doctor 
as to the care of it, with instructions 
about steps to be taken in case of 
breakage. If certain foods are to be 
avoided, this fact should be mentioned. 

Children who wear glasses should be 
equipped with an extra pair in case of 
breakage; these should be given to the 
medical staff or director: or, a copy 
of the eye glass prescription would be 
satisfactory, so that new glasses or len¬ 
ses may be ordered in the nearest town 
or city. 

Do not send Band-Aids, headache 
pills, etc., with the child. All such 
medications are readily available at 
the camp and should be dispensed only 
by the medical staff, since they are 
responsible for treatment of all ail¬ 
ments. It should be stressed here that 
the indiscriminate use of headache pills 
should be avoided. Since a headache 
may be a symptom of any number of 


things such as overexposure to sun, 
overfatigue or the onset of some illness, 
it is better that the child be examined 
by the doctor or nurse. 

It cannot be stated too emphatically 
that if the child has been in contact 
with anyone suffering from any of 
the communicable diseases (measles, 
mumps, chicken-pox, scarlet fever, 
etc.), the camper should be kept at 
home until the quarantine period is 
over. And of equal importance, if the 
child develops any signs of a cold or 
sniffle or upset stomach just before his 
departure for camp, it is best to keep 
him home until the family doctor has 
seen him. It is not fair to the child or 
the campers to place a sick one among 
them. 

One final word; please enter on the 
medical form the number of the family 
hospitalization policy and/or insurance 
policy. This is not to cause panic. It is 
only a help to the camp director, and 
may save embarrassment should the 
child need attention at a hospital for 
the most minor emergency. 

In so many thoughtful and simple 
ways, parents can help to make the 
summer a happy one for both the 
camper and the director. 

Thank you for your co-operation. 

Yours sincerely, 

A. Camp Director. 

Copyright Can. & US A., i960 

Editorial Footnote: In Ontario , there is 
no quarantine for contacts of persons 
having Chicken Pox, Mumps, Measles or 
German Measles. Your Medical Officer 
of Health or the family doctor can inform 
you of the regulations governing other 
communicable diseases . 

Should camp directors wish to enclose 
this information with application forms to 
parents, copies of the original copyright 
article may be obtained through Mrs. G. W. 
Flynn, Town Talk About Camps, 23 Dunbar 
Road, Toronto 5. 15$ per copy or $10 per 
hundred. 

— « 


Toronto , Canada , February 1961 


67 



FUNDAMENTALS OF 
DAY CAMPING 
by Grace L. Mitchell 

Written for the American Camping 
Association by the chairman of its 
National Day Camp Committee, this 
book will fill a wide gap in the shelves 
of any camp library. So few books are 
written on the topic. This one goes into 
the whole area of Day Camping so 
thoroughly that it covers selection of 
site, administration, program, safety, 
food, buildings, staff, with a well- 
program is outlined in such detail that 
many a resident camp director and 
counsellor will glean new ideas for this 
Year’s projects. G. R. WELCH AND 
CO., ETOBICOKE, ONT. $4.50. 

100 TO DINNER 
by E. Middleton y M. Ransom Carter 
and A. Vierin. Published by 
UNIVERSITY PRESS, TORONTO. 

This book contains quantity recipes 
of proven merit. First issued in 1947, 
a steady demand has caused it fre¬ 
quently to be reprinted and it is now 
reissued in a new, much enlarged 
edition. 

Anyone who has the job of providing 
attractive, nourishing meals for large 
numbers of people will find this book 
extremely useful. 


For your information, the following 
literature is available at the Ontario 
Camping Association office. These art¬ 
icles are known to be of worth to you, 
your section heads, activity heads and 
all members of your staff. 

HOMESICKNESS—Dr. Taylor Stat- 
ten. A Symptom Complex related to 
Separation from Home. 2 for 15^. 
THE COUNSELLOR’S JOB AT 
CAMP—Mrs. Ralph Raymer. 2 for 
15<f. 

FATIGUE—Dr. J. H. Ebbs. A Major 
Health Problem in Camps. 2 for 15^. 
CANOEING—Mary Porter. A Can¬ 
adian Heritage: Part 1, Its Roman¬ 
tic Origin; Part 2, Its History and 
Development; Part 3, Its Modern 
Aspects. 2 for 15^. 

SOME THOUGHTS ON CANOE 
TRIP CAMPING—Douglas Lloyd. 
2 for 15^. 

IT’S WISE TO SUPERVISE—com¬ 
piled and edited by Alan Klein and 
Irwin Haladner. $1.00. 

MASTER PLAN YOUR CAMP — 
Bradford Sears, Assistant Professor 
of Landscape Engineering, New York 
State College of Forestry, Consultant 
Landscape and Recreational En¬ 
gineer. Free. 


68 


Canadian Camping 


LEAF - The ® esf in ^* ee P in 9 Accommodation 



Model No. 1— No-Sag Folding C amp Mattresses — A complete selection of 

Cot — finished in walnut enamel — quality Mattresses are also available, 

angle iron or tubular bedsteads (slight 
extra charge) at each end. 

Reinforced heavy duty frames (angle iron) and platforms (special NO-SAG). 

30“ wide by 72" long, but these and other specifications may be changed to 
suit your special requirements. 

CLOVER LEAF BEDDING CO. LTD. 

49 RIVALDA RD. - CH. 9-2281 - WESTON, ONT. 

REDB00K MAGAZINE 

REACHES 

FAMILIES WITH CHILDREN OF CAMP AGE! 

ITS CIRCULATION GUARANTEE 

ZOOMS 

TO 3,350.000 IN JANUARY 1961 

CAMP ADVERTISING RATES ON REQUEST 

ETHEL F. BEBB, Camp Editor 
REDBOOK MAGAZINE, McCALL CORPORATION 
230 Park Avenue, New York 17. New York 


Toronto, Canada, February 1961 



from page 52 

an excellent custom in a junior camp 
to have stories told in each cabin for 
about twenty minutes after the children 
arc tucked into bed. There is a tendency 
to settle down more quickly and it pro¬ 
vides insurance against homesickness. 

There is an educational value as well. 
Stories reveal life in different surround¬ 
ings and various periods in world his¬ 
tory. Like a magic carpet, a story can 
transport one to far-away lands and 
long-ago days, and one can relive the 
dramatic experiences of the great men 
and women of fiction and biography. 

A good story may have tremen¬ 
dous influence in character building. 
Through the strivings and courage, the 
daring and idealism of others, we are 
often inspired to emulate their deeds. 

There is a vast wealth of material 
available. Many modern children’s 
books are enchanting. Many of the 
oldest talcs are being republished and 
dressed up with beautiful illustrations. 
Let us not neglect poetry. The stories 
in narrative poems are easy to learn. 
There arc ballads with a rich store of 
excitement and romance, and many 
nonsense rhymes are popular in camp 
life. The range of fine stories is almost 
unlimited. 

The ideal story teller is one whose 
love for life gives zest to what lie says 
and docs, whose sense of humor is 
unfailing: one who has a sympathetic 
interest in all kinds of people, and a 
sense of wonder for the amazing out- 
of-doors. From his art of story telling, 
he not only gives lavishly of entertain¬ 
ment and inspiration, but he gains rich 
rewards for himself, and is humbly 
grateful that he is a channel through 
which may pass to others some of the 
treasures of the story world. 


from page 54 

the same mistake twice—she made each 
one of us different. The camp program, 
therefore, will be tailored to fit and all 
individuals will not be forced into a 
common pattern. 

In a camp where the highest devel¬ 
opment of human personally is put 
first, there is increased responsibility 
placed on the individual. Within sens¬ 
ible limits of health and safety, the 
camper is given opportunity for mak¬ 
ing decisions and choices. This is not 
done for him by rules and regulations 
imposed from above or rigid traditions 
and observances imposed by past his¬ 
tory. In the facing of personal prob¬ 
lems, ready-made solutions are not 
handed to him but rather he is helped 
to help himself. 

While this putting of the highest 
development of the human personality 
first seems like a fairly obvious thing 
to do, it is not as easy as it seems. Like 
the fact that there is plenty of room 
at the rear of a crowded Toronto street¬ 
car, it is sometimes easier seen by an 
outsider. Then, too, under pressure 
from immediate things around you, it 
is not always possible to put into prac¬ 
tice right away the course of action that 
you know to be best. In addition, we 
are living in a modern world where 
human personality is often crushed by 
economic exploitation, poverty, greed, 
racial prejudice, wars. 

Nevertheless, difficulties to the con¬ 
trary, human personality is the most 
valuable thing there is. Dr. Arnold 
Gesell has been quoted as saying that 
the future of civilization depends upon 
the recognition of the dignity and worth 
of man. As camping people it is our 
privilege and challenge to work with 
human personality — “the strongest, 
most creative force now present in the 
world.” 


70 


Canadian Camping 


Self-control for the unexpected emer¬ 
gency and patience for the weari¬ 
some task; 

With deep depths within my soul to 
bear me through the crowded places: 

And the laughter of the sunny waves 
to brighten the cheerless spots in a 
long winter. 

God of the Stars, may I take back the 
gift of friendship and of love for all. 

Fill me with a great tenderness for the 
needy person at every turning. 

Grant that in all my perplexities and 
every-day decisions I may keep an 
open mind. 

God of the Wilderness, with Thy pure 

winds from the northland blow away 
my pettiness. 

With the harsher winds of winter drive 
away my selfishness and hypocrisy, 

Fill me with the breadth and depth, 
and the height of Thy wilderness; 

May I live out the truths which Thou 
has taught me, by every thought and 
word and deed. 


1961 BOOKS FOR CAMPS 

MANAGING THE YMCA CAMP by J. A. Lcdlie 

A handbook of good practices in administration and operation of the modem 

residential youth camp____ $4.95 

LIVING LIKE INDIANS by A. A. Macfarlan 

New activities for adventuring Americans . . . more than 1000 indoors-outdoors 

ideas and projects from authentic American Indian lore. $6.95 

FUNDAMENTALS OF DAY CAMPING by G. L. Mitchell 

Standards, experience and practicality focused on a child-centred day camp 

program. _____....___........... $4.50 

10* CRAFTS FOR KIDS by J. Wardwel! 

Magic for leaders ... in 100 simple-to-do, ready-to-please things to make. $2.95 

THE COKESBURY GAME BOOK — Revised — by A. M. Depew 

This revised edition brings the long-time favorite game book up-to-date with the 


addition of interesting new games and helpful illustrations. $3.75 

1000 GAMES AND STUNTS by H. D. Edgren 

Recreation will be no problem for the camp counselor who uses this little 

fun-packed book..(paper) $ .60 

PLAY ACTIVITIES FOR THE RETARDED CHILD 
by B. W. Carlson and D. R. Ginglend 

How to help him grow and learn through music, games, handicraft and other 
play activities. _;- $4.00 


IMPORTANT NOTICE 

A comprehensive list of camping books covering 189 titles is now available at your 
book store. Some of the categories covered are: Camp Administrations Counseling, 
Nature, Campfire Programs, Sports and Outdoor Activities, Arts and Crafts, Hobbies, 
Games, Quizzes, Stunts, and many others . 

Order from your regular bookstore. 

G. R. WELCH COMPANY LIMITED, Toronto 18, Ontario 


Sermons 

Slntier 

is>un 

THE PRAYER OF A CAMPER 

God of the Hills, grant me Thy 
strength to go back into the cities 
without faltering, 

Strength to do my daily task without 
tiring, and with enthusiasm, 

Strength to help my neighbour who 
has no hills to remember. 

i 

God of the Lake, grant me Thy peace 
and Thy restfulness, 

Peace to bring into a world of hurry 
and confusion, 

Restfulness to cany to the tired one 
whom I shall meet every day; 

Content to do small things with a 
freedom from littleness; 


Toronto , Canada, February 1961 


71 










??? 


? ?? 


IN QUEST OF ANSWERS 

by Hart M. Devenney, M.A. 


Each year about this time a Steering 
Committee meets to plan the Annual 
Non-Profit Camp Directors and Com¬ 
mittee Members Workshop which is 
held at the Ontario Camp Leadership 
Centre (Bark Lake) near Irondale, 
Ontario. 

Over the past five years a veiy prac¬ 
tical approach to problem-solving has 
been carried out by dedicated camping 
groups. They are dedicated in the 
sense that for the return on their in¬ 
vestment of time and energy they have 
in results only the good feeling of ac¬ 
complishment. These many and widely 
divergent camp groups have been rep¬ 
resentative of churches, social agencies, 
boy scout and girl guides with a sprinkl¬ 
ing of other types of social service 
associations. 

A little over five years ago a small 
steering committee of individuals felt 
that a week-end workshop should be 
held in a camp setting together with 
other individuals, who for a short period 
each summer were attempting to pro¬ 
vide a camping experience for children 
of various age ranges, both boys and 
girls. Albeit their responsibilities were 
for short periods of perhaps two weeks, 
the problems of maintenance, of pro¬ 
gram, of leadership and of finance, 
were always with them. They faced, in 
different degree, but all quite real, the 
need for adequate provision of food ser¬ 
vices, for facilities and equipment in 
varying amounts. 

In many cases it was a trial and er¬ 
ror kind of management which all too 
often caused headaches. Each year it 
seemed, at camp time, these peculiar 
migraines appeared to plague the vali¬ 


ant. The answers to their problems did 
not come easily for there was a dearth 
of knowledge and experience, although 
interest and concern abounded. 

Gould, then, there not be value in 
the suggestion of bringing together 
those of like mind to share and to 
learn? There would have to be guid¬ 
ance, of course! There were many 
popular and qualified camp leaders, it 
was found, who would be only too will¬ 
ing to give of their time and energy to 
improve the camping picture. But 
where to go for this exciting project? 

The Steering Committee discussed 
their problem and need with the camp¬ 
ing personnel of the Physical Education 
Branch in the Ontario Department of 
Education. It was suggested that the 
workshop might be held at the Ontario 
Camp Leadership Centre, the Depart¬ 
ment’s Summer Training Camp for 
Leaders-in-Training, which is located 
at Bark Lake, in the Haliburton High¬ 
lands. In due course practical help 
was extended to the Steering Com¬ 
mittee when the use of this excellent 
camping site was made available to 
them. 

The financing of the project came 
from two or three sources. The Depart¬ 
ment of Education, besides providing 
the site, gave a small grant-in-aid for 
meals. The organizations and the asso¬ 
ciations underwrote the transportation 
costs of selected representatives. Al¬ 
though the first workshop was attended 
without fee, subsequent delegates have 
paid a small registration fee which has 
been used to defray the costs of special 
leadership and other incidental costs 
for program equipment, etc. 

turn to page 74 


72 


Canadian Camping 



• No breakage costs 

• No wastage or 

inconvenience 

• No costly washup 

• Labour costs slashed 


Dixie Matched Food Service 
available in a full range of 
sizes for every need. Send for 
your free Sample Kit. 


Dixie Cup Co. (Canada) Limited, Brampton, Ontario 


COMPLETE 

CAMP BUILDING SERVICE 

ANYWHERE IN ONTARIO OR QUEBEC 

FOR REFERENCES AS TO CAMP WORK CONTACT 

CAMP WABI-KON 
CAMP NORTHLAND 
CAMP B'NAI B'RITH 
MOTHERS' AND BABES' CAMP 
CAMP WHITE PINE 
CAMP WINNEBAGOE 

John Seguin 

GENERAL BUILDING CONTRACTOR 

P.O. Box 186 - NORTH BAY - Ontario 

Telephone GRover 2-5217 


Cut Costs at Your Camp 
or Lodge with 

DIXIE CUPS 

T.M.R. 


Toronto, Canada, February 1961 


73 








THE TOPPINGS COMPANY 

OFFERS YOU 

REGULAR WEEKLY SERVICE ON 

• "TOPPIT' Our Dessert Topping & Filling 

• "JELLO" Jelly Powders 

• "JELLO'' Pie & Pudding Powders 

• "SUNUP" Orange Drink Powders 

• "ACE-HIGH" Frozen Orange Juice 

• "TOPPINGS" Frozen Fruits & Vegetables 

• "EASI-DOUGH" Frozen Pic Dough 

• "SINGERS" Redi-Taters & Fries 

• "TOPPINGS" Fruit Pic Fillings 
O "TOPPINGS” Fruit Juice Pulpies 

• "TOPPINGS" Sundae Sauces & Syrups 
O "TOPPINGS" Hot & Cold Chocolates 

• "QUAKER” Cake, Cookie & Pancake Mix 

• "TOPPINGS" Pancake Syrups & Jams 

• "TOPPINGS” Salad Dressings & Mustard 

• "MAXWELL HOUSE" Coffees 

• "BICK'S" Relishes & Pickles 

• "WYANDOTTE" Detergents & Cleaners 

Special Discounts on Volume Orders 

The Toppings Company 
Limited 

3 Overend Street, Toronto 2 
Telephone EMpire 4-5391 


from page 72 

It was recognized right from the 
start that full and complete answers to 
all practical problems would not result 
to those who attended. At the various 
workshops there has been a forthright 
recognition of inadequacies and a re¬ 
solve to try and correct them. There' 
has been a realization that organized 
camping is something more that just 
sunshine. At all workshops a worth¬ 
while resolve has been made to see that 
more effort and attention can be paid 
to the need for trained leaders by short 
term camp directors and committees. 
Accordingly the camp directors have 
been sponsoring the applications of 
their most likely senior boys and girls, 
who have the necessary pre-requisites 
for the submission of applications, to 
attend the training period at the On¬ 
tario Camp Leadership Centre held in 
July and August. 

As the new camping seasons have 
rolled around new horizons have been 
opened up and the workshops have 
taken a look into such things as “Ad¬ 
venture in Camping”, “The Camp of 
the Future”, “The Need for Leadership 
Training”, “The Problem of Finance 
in the Non-Profit Camp”, and so on. 

The real marks of the workshop 
which have been imprinted on the 
minds and hearts of those who have 
attended have been in the form of im¬ 
proved relationships, increased knowl¬ 
edge, added-to skills, and for the want 
of a better expression, enhanced values. 

The Non-Profit Camp directors and 
Committee Members’ Workshop is 
again scheduled for its sixth season at 
Bark Lake in June, 1961. Very shortly 
the new steering committee—a new 
committee is elected at the end of every 
workshop—will meet to make plans. 
These will be based on the suggestions 
left with them by all members at the 
final evaluation session of the last work¬ 
shop. A long list of interesting topics 


74 


Canadian Camping 





GUMPERT HAS EVERYTHING 


has been suggested for this year. Ob¬ 
viously not all will be selected. How¬ 
ever one will emerge which, if the short 
experience of the past is any criterion, 
will prove practical, magnetic in ap¬ 
peal, and extremely worthwhile. 

When mid-June arrives, men and 
women, whether responsible for the 
actual on-thc-scene operation of a 
camp, or those charged as a Camp 
Committee with the task of seeing that 
the facilities, the equipment and the 
finances are provided, will meet for 
fellowship, for learning, and for mutual 
understanding of problems inimical to 
the short term camp. 

When such expressions of interest as 
“a good and worthwhile experience”, 
“let’s do this again”, or “the best dis¬ 
cussion of my problem that I’ve had”, 
are left on record then it may be said 
with something more than truth that 
the camping movement is benefitted by 
the holding of such workshops. 


Nulurv Courses 

Each year brings a number of queries 
from camp directors for information 
about available courses for staff mem¬ 
bers who are to teach conservation, 
nature and wildlife habits. The answer 
comes from the National Audubon 
Society, in the form of five two-week 
courses in Maine, Connecticut or Wis¬ 
consin, beginning June 12th, 1961. Cost 
is $110 for the two weeks, of which $20 
is to be sent with the registration. Ex¬ 
pert naturalists are gathered at these 
camps to provide teachers, counsellors, 
directors, or anyone interested in na¬ 
ture, with a wealth of rich experience 
in the outdoors, and to outline new 
program aids and teaching methods. 
Write to: The National Audubon 
Society, 1130 Fifth Avenue, New York 
28, N.Y. 



FOR THE FINEST IN FOODS 


GUMPERT 


HAS EVERYTHING 


S. GUMPERT CO. OF CANADA, LTD. 

31 BROCK AVE., TORONTO LE. 1-5758 



Make it a requirement that all 
campers' clothing and belongings 
are marked with 


NAMES 
1 L5/ WOVEN 

Camp linen and equipment, too, 

should be marked to avoid con¬ 

fusion and loss. Names, numbers, or 
special markings can be supplied. 

Ask for details of our special 
service to Camp Owners and 
Operators. 

order CASH'S WOVEN NAMES 
from dealers, or 

CASH'S, Belleville 32, Ontario 

Name: 3 doz. $1.80 6 doz. $2.40 

Prices: 9 doz. $3.00 12 doz. $3.50 


Tor onto, Canadas February 1961 


75 





from page 57 

room may feel terrifyingly large. 
Strange night sounds of owls and loons 
or thunder may make him afraid; 
being away from home for the first 
time may cause loneliness to the extent 
that he is literally sick. Fears of some 
children are extremely real. One of 
the strange beliefs of our society is that 
it is wrong to be afraid. A counsellor 
who ridicules or condemns a child’s 
fears may succeed only in having the 
child repress, rather than express them, 
and such repression is the source of 
many later mental health evils. If the 
counsellor wants to be a counsellor, he 
must help the child accept the feeling 
of being afraid as something everyone 
experiences and help him understand 
it. For example, the loon that made the 
terrifying sounds at night may be ob¬ 
served on the sunlit blue lake the next 
day, so the camper gets to know and 
be interested in him. 

It is, of course, essential that no need¬ 
less fears be engendered in the young¬ 
ster. He need not be forced to swim in 
deep water right away; he may enjoy 
wading around the beach and playing 
with toy boats. Supernatural fears from 
spooky stories and myths about malici¬ 
ous ghosts have no place in the young 
camper’s life, nor have unnecessary 
fears of night raids or hazing. There 
are enough things to be afraid of in the 
civilized, atomic world, that there is no 
need to produce artificial terrors. 

Finally, if the counsellor is really 
concerned with the campers’ develop¬ 
ment, he must remember that young 
children require a great deal of time 
and a great deal of guidance in dealing 
with the “daily round and common 


task”. The college student may think 
it a little dull and undignified to super¬ 
vise the camper washing his hands and 
face (and neck occasionally), to plan 
time for him to go to the toilet, to help 
him be interested in keeping his cabin 
reasonably tidy, eating his meals quietly 
and adequately, remembering that but¬ 
tons have to be sewn on and shorts 
patched, sending clothes to the laundry; 
these are all part of the routines of 
living which the camper is not ready 
to assume all by himself, but which he 
is ready to learn. Too often camp pro¬ 
grams arc so extremely busy that little 
time is allotted for these daily tasks, 
but as soon as these are forgotten, the 
camper’s life and the camp’s life be¬ 
come a drastic muddle. To counsel 
wisely must include helping the young¬ 
ster to develop skill and interest in 
necessary routines and to take time 
and thought to work out plans by which 
this can be achieved. To counsel, then, 
means that the life, interests and feel¬ 
ings of youngsters are the counsellor’s 
primary concern, for only with an un¬ 
derstanding of these can his guidance 
be developed effectively. 

A camp counsellor should be a camp 
counsellor. He should have “a sense 
of at-homeness in the natural world 
and the arts of outdoor living”, and he 
should be able to counsel:—guide de¬ 
velopment by understanding the child’s 
level of maturity, interest and skill. 
With these qualities he will perhaps 
not be a Superman, but he will be an 
invaluable asset to any camp staff and 
a great surprise and satisfaction to 
himself. 

— • 


"Perhaps the most valuable result of all education is the ability to make yourself do 
the thins you have to do, when it ought to be done, whether you like it or not; it is the 
first lesson that ought to be learned, and however early a man's training begins, it is probably 
thejast lesson that he learns thoroughly ” —Thomas Henry Huxley 


76 


Canadian Camping 


Woodhre and Candle-light 


I LOVE BIRCH TREES 

I love birch trees 

Standing straight against the sky 
Or bent with the breeze 
Waving leafy arms on high. 

No other tree in all the wood 
Ever seems so chaste and good. 

I love birch trees. 

They hold the darkness back at night. 
Brave guardians these— 

Their slender bodies strong though 
slight. 

Young knights in silver then they are 
Bearing on their shields, a star. 

I love birch trees. 

They grow upon you like a friend. 
They always please 
From early spring to winter’s end, 
Rooted firm ’gainst every test, 

That is why I love them best. 


Mary S. Edgar 


THE SILENT PLACES 

You would know us, the silent places, 
The brooding heart of the wild? 
You would probe our age-long enigmas? 
Then come with the heart of a child. 

We wait for one who will listen, 

Heart tuned to the silence and shade, 
And stirred with the life pulsing 
through us 

Will ponder our moods unafraid. 

Acquaint your soul with our stillness, 
And beauty in sky and sod 
Will unfold, child-heart, to your wonder 
The startling nearness of God. 


LOST CHILD 

Are you busy losing a child? The 
fact is that many camp leaders have 
lost a child. Being too busy to answer 
trivial questions during those weeks 
and years when a camp leader is a 
hero, they have let go their hold on 
the child. 

Yes, and many a camp director has 
lost a child too. Being engrossed in the 
kitchen problems, pumps and payroll 
payments and plumbing, the camp dir¬ 
ector left others to tell the stories, share 
the prayers, play the games—thus his 
grip on the child was lost. 

There are many ways of losing a 
child. 


Adapted from The Gideon Magazine. 


Toronto , Canada , February 1961 


77 






78 


Canadian Campino 








from page 55 

liquor is then poured into the well and 
allowed to stand overnight or longer. 
The water is then pumped until no 
taste is present. Javex may be used 
straight instead of the paste mentioned 
above. 

Bacteriological samples should be 
sent for analysis at regular intervals 
after this treatment has been applied. 
Should poor analyses continue the well 
should be reconstructed, a new supply 
obtained or each pailful of water 
treated as it is drawn from the well. 

Treatment of Water 

This can be accomplished by boiling 
or by chlorination. If the water is 
brought to the boiling point, even with¬ 
out boiling for any period, the disease 
organisms will be destroyed. The De¬ 
partment of Health has made available 
at cost price—75 cents—a small chlor¬ 
ine outfit which can be used to treat 
the water instead of by boiling. It is 
more convenient, and is very useful for 
tourists, summer cottagers and for tem¬ 
porary treatment of home supplies. It 
can be obtained by mail from the 
Department at the Parliament Build¬ 
ings, Toronto. 

Safe Bathing 

Selection of bathing places is impor¬ 
tant for health protection. Since it is 
seldom feasible to avoid getting some 
water into the mouth when bathing, 
the water should be of good quality. 
All artificial pools in the province are 
required to use chlorine in the water. 
This is not feasible for outdoor bathing 
places, and care is needed in selecting 
the area. The water should not be 
contaminated with sewage, drainage, 
or similar substances. 

To swim for health should mean to 
swim in safe water. Use protected 
chlorinated pools wherever possible. 

Consult your local health officer or 
provincial department of health for 
advice on any health problem. They 
are always ready and anxious to help 
you. —• 


Wholesale 
Medical 
Supplies .. • 

Medical Equipment 
First Aid Requirements 
Drugs and Medicines 

• 

Low Prices Fast Service 

STARKMAN CHEMISTS 

459 Bloor St. W. - Toronto 

WA. 2 - Twenty-One - Twenty-One 


HOBART 
Food Machines 

Meat Choppers 
Mixers 

Potato Peelers 
Food Slicers 
Power Meat Saws 
Steakmasters 
Portion Scales 
Dish and Glass Washers 
Food Cutters 
Food Waste Disposers 

• 

Hobart Manufacturing 
Company Limited 
175 George Street, Toronto 

Branches Across Canada 


Toronto, Canada, February 1961 


79 




Lesson Five 


from ptige 59 
Lesson One 

1. A brief discussion about the thrill, 
fun, satisfaction, and self-reliance that 
come from knowing how to sail a boat. 

2. A discussion of the names of sail¬ 
boat parts, such as the hull, bow, stern, 
gunwales, transom, deck, coaming, 
centerboard, centerboard trunk, rudder, 
tiller, mast, boom, shrouds, stays, hal¬ 
yards, sheets, cleats, blocks, sails, main¬ 
sail, jib, and battens. 

3. Personal equipment for sailing 
such as proper gear, foot gear, clasp 
knife, and foul weather gear. 

4. Practise afloat. 

Lesson Two 

1. The mechanics of why a sailboat 
sails to windward. 

2. The use of a dinghy as a tender. 

3. Readying the boat for sailing and 
simple elements of sailing while at a 
mooring. 

4. Practice afloat. 

Lesson Three 

1. Points of good seamanship. 

2. Content, use and stowage of the 
following auxiliary equipment: 

(a) Anchor and anchor line. 

(b) Foghorn and other signaling de¬ 
vices, emergency tool kit and 
contents. 

(c) Life jackets or buoyant cushions, 
bailing gear, oars and oarlocks 
or paddles, flashlight, etc. 

3. Nautical terms. 

4. Crew practice. 

5. Pick up mooring, moor sailboat, 
douse sails, secure ship. 

Lesson Four 

1. Eye splice, short splice, whipping, 
and needle whipping. 

2. Capsize boat rescue procedure. 

3. Sailing practice. 


1. Practice afloat. 

2. Running before the wind. 

Lesson Six 

1. Demonstration of a man over¬ 
board rescue. 

2. Crews practice in man overboard 
rescue. 

3. Practise sailing on all points. 
Lesson Seven 

1. Practise sailing on all points. 

2. Approaches and landings at dock 
or offshore raft. 

Lesson Eight 

1. Final skills checkoff list, which 
would include the following: 

(a) Handling the tender to and 
from mooring. 

(b) Handling the tender at mooring. 

(c) Readying boat for sailing. 

(d) Casting off and clearing moor¬ 
ing. 

(e) Sailing on a reach. 

(f) Coming about for reaching on a 
new leg. 

(g) Approaching and picking up a 
mooring. 

(h) Mooring, dousing sail and ‘se¬ 
curing ship’. 

(i) Capsize boat rescue. 

(j) Sailing to windward. 

(k) Running before the wind. 

(l) Man overboard rescue. 

(m) Approaching and landing at 
dock. 

(n) Marlin spike, seamanship, whip¬ 
ping, round turn and two half 
hitches, bowline, eye splice, 
square knot, sheet bend. 

2. Testing, both written and practi¬ 
cal test. 


30 


Canadian Camping 



Obviously, any programming for a 
course in sailing should make allow¬ 
ance for rainy days during which time 
indoor instruction in knot tying and 
seamanship could be planned. 

Steering and sailing rules for sail¬ 
boats are available—these include rules 
to prevent collisions of vessels and pilot 
rules for certain inland waters. This 
kind of information can be obtained 
from the Department of Transport, 
any office, which issues boat licenses, 
can supply copies. 

Racing is not included for lack of 
time and so forth in many sailing pro¬ 
grams at camps, but if the instructor 
wishes to include it as a supplementary 
activity he may obtain for 75 the 
official racing rules from the Canadian 
Yachting Association, 1 Wellington St. 
West, Toronto 1, Ontario. 


Publications of the 
Canadian Citizenship Branch 

Canadian Citizenship Series: 

“Our Land”—A brief outline of the 
six geographical regions of Canada, 
the political geography of the ten 
provinces and two territories, and 
statistics pertaining to Canadian 
centres with over 10,000 population. 


“Our History” — A short history of 
Canada under the main headings of 
exploration, settlement and political 
development. 

“Our System of Government”—An out¬ 
line of the structure and function of 
government in Canada at the federal, 
provincial and municipal levels. A 
chapter is also included on the 
judiciary. 

“Our Resources”—Short accounts of 
the development, from early times 
to the present, of Canadian agricul¬ 
ture, fisheries, forestry, manufactur¬ 
ing, mining and water power. 

“The Arts in Canada”—A concise his¬ 
tory of Canadian art from the very 
beginnings to the present day. The 
greatest emphasis has been placed on 
painting but some attention has also 
been paid to architecture, sculpture 
and the allied arts. 48 illustrations of 
which 16 are in colour. 

The Canadian Citizenship Series is 
available free to newcomers, and also 
to voluntary organizations for use in 
organized study and discussion groups. 
For any other purpose they are avail¬ 
able from the Queen’s Printer, Ottawa, 
Ontario, at a cost of 35 cents per copy, 
with the exception of “The Arts in 
Canada” which is 75 cents. Editions 
in English and French. 


CHICKEN 

"7 really didn’t want to do it, but I didn’t want to be chicken .” This statement from 
a recent court record points up one of the most astonishing phenomena of our time— 
the confusion of so many people as to what is brave and what is cowardly. 

It doesn’t take any courage to go along with the crowd. The most timid, spineless 
people you know can do that. Usually they would RATHER not, but they haven’t what 
it takes to do the things they would like to do. Such people aren’t chicken—they are mouse. 

It takes COURAGE to be independent to use good sense when the “loud mouths” 
are insisting that you, too, do something wrong . It takes courage to act intelligently when 
you are surrounded by the foolish. Such courage demonstrates self reliance at its best. 

It is character in action . 


Toronto, Canada, February 1961 


81 



OUR FRIENDS . . . 
The Advertisers 


American Camping Association . 45 

J. H. Beattie . 66 

Canada Yacht & Boat Centre . 48 

Canadian Camping Magazine Co. 

Inside Back Cover 

J. & J. Cash (Canada) Ltd. 75 

Clovcrlcaf Bedding Co. Ltd. 69 

Continental Casualty Co. 

Outside Back Cover 

Dixie Cup Company (Canada) Ltd. 73 

T. Eaton Co. Ltd. 43 

Foodcraft Laboratories Ltd. 46 

Gibbons Foods Ltd.Inside Front Cover 

Stanley A. Grant Ltd. 78 

S. Gumpert Co. of Canada Ltd. 75 

Hobart Manufacturing Co. Ltd. 79 

Michael Jay . 74 

Maple Leaf Plastics Ltd. 44 

Ontario Northland Railway . 78 

Para Paints Ltd.Inside Back Cover 

Parents' Magazine . 65 

Redbook Magazine . 69 

John Seguin . 73 

Starkman Chemists Ltd. 79 

Tandy Leather Co. of Canada Ltd. 46 

Tom Taylor Co. Ltd. 65 

The Toppings Co Ltd. 74 

Vermont Accident Insurance Co. 66 

G. R. Welch Co. Ltd. 71 

G. II. Wood & Co. Ltd. 44 


CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING 


CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING RATES: 
Twenty cents a word, minimum five dollars. 
All classified payable in advance. Address all 
correspondence to (( Canadian Camping”, 170 
Bloor Street West, Toronto, Ontario. 


A PRAYER FOR CAMP LEADERS 

Lord of Creation and Author of all 
things true and beautiful, we humbly 
lift our hearts in gratitude for the 
wonder of Thy world, and for eyes to 
see the pageantry of days and nights 
and changing seasons. We thank Thee 
for the adventure and responsibility of 
leadership among children in their holi¬ 
day time. Since Thou art the source 
of all wisdom, we seek to draw from 
Thy limitless resources, lest we fail in 
our task. 

Take from us a false sense of our 
own sufficiency. Deepen our awareness 
of Thy all-prevailing Presence about us 
and within us, so that at all times 
we may have poise, confidence, under¬ 
standing and a sense of humor. 

Grant that we may pass on to our 
campers the best Thou canst give to 
them through the medium of our rela¬ 
tionship. Make us instruments worthy 
of the opportunity which lies before us. 
May we see with them the wonder of 
each, new day, feel their joyous zest for 
living, and grasp in our minds the 
amazing potentiality of each young life. 

Help us in our camps to build bridges 
of friendship and understanding be¬ 
tween our campers and between peoples 
of different races and creeds, so that 
we, together , may play our part in 
building a better world for Thy great 
family of mankind. 

— • 


VALUE 

A plain bar of iron is worth five dollars. This same bar of iron when made into horse¬ 
shoes if worth $10.50. Needles, $4,285. Balance wheels for watches, $250,000. True of 
a ty kind of material — you. Your value is determined by WHAT you make of yourself. 


I saw a small boy playing ball all alone. I asked him why he was playing by 
himself. He answered, “1 ain’t playing by myself; Vm playing with God. J throw the ball 
up to him and he throws it right back to me.” 


The best way to better your lot is to do a lot better. 


82 


Canadian Camping 






























CREATED FOR CANADIAN CAMPS 


WASHABLE 

DURABLE 


INTERIOR — EXTERIOR 

PAR-VIN 


LATEX VINYL PAINT 


No. 800 WHITE 



• Odourless 

• Tough and Flexible 

• Excellent- colour retention 

• Aikali-resisrant — immediately washable 

• Blister-resistant 

• Fast drying 

WRITE FOR FREE COLOUR STYLING BOOKLET 
TRADE PRICES AVAILABLE ON REQEUST 

PARA PAINTS LIMITED 

MANUFACTURERS 



25 Racine Road, Rexdalc (Toronto) Ontario — CH. 6-6641 
STORE: 616 Yonge St., Toronto 5 — WA. 3-2468 

SERVING HOME AND INDUSTRY SINCE 1915 


It \ Wise ML 

To Supervise 


A DISCUSSION ON STAFF 
SUPERVISION IN SUMMER CAMPS 

COMPILED AND EDITED BY 

ALAN KLEIN, 

Professor Graduate School of 

Social Work, University of Pittsburgh. 

and 

IRWIN IIALADNER, 

Director, Camp Wabi-Kon 

Endorsed and Distributed by . . . 

The Ontario 

Camping Association 

Order Now 

— $1.00 per copy. 

Published by 

THE CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE COMPANY 

























INCREASING RESPONSE 

for 

CONTINENTAL’S CAMP-GUARD PLAN 



HAS GUARANTEED ITS 
AVAILABILITY 
FOR ANOTHER YEAR 


DISPLAY THIS SYMBOL 

STICKERS AVAILABLE FOR YOUR STATIONERY 


A choice of plans for all organizational, church and 
private camps providing broad medical expense 
protection for each accident and each sickness at low 
cost group rates for both campers and staff members. 


Put CAMP-GUARD on your programme. Display 
this symbol and let parents know your camp is 
covered. This symbol of outstanding coverage 
assures them you take added interest in your 
camper's welfare, by providing a CAMP-GUARD 
accident and sickness plan. 


Your local insurance agent will help you choose the 
right plan for your camp; or write our nearest office 
for full particulars. 


CONTINENTAL CASUALTY COMPANY 

SPECIAL RISKS DIVISION 

640 West Hastings Street 160 Bloor St. East 2100 Drummond Street 

VANCOUVER TORONTO MONTREAL 

MUtual 4-6381 WAInut 4-4692 Victor 9-5306 

607 Imperial Bank Building — EDMONTON — GA. 24642 





