
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 


THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION (.'ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU CANADA 



Summer Edition, 1973, edition d'ete 






































Dear Mommy & Daddy, 


You told me to drop you a line, so. 


guess 


you don't think that's very funny, but I did and 
so did my new friend Suzie. She's my friend now, 
but she wasn't yesterday because she hurt me. 

It was all her fault; when Miss Smith was showing 
us all how to put a tent up, Suzie was supposed 
to hammer in the wedge for the loop for the tent ropes and the hammer 
hit me in the chin. Dumb Suzie! 



Miss Smith said "Calm Down" just like you say, Mommy. And then we went to the 
Dentist in town. My tooth was broken and had to come out. I can't eat any of the peanut 
brittle you sent; it was yellow anyway. 

Miss Smith says "Don't forget to tell your parents that the camp has Camp-Guard 
and Camp-Guard will take care of the Dentist's bills." 

So that's what I'm doing at camp. I don't like Suzie again because my mouth is still 
sore. 


Love Janie 

XXXXXXXXXX 


CAMP-GUARD IS UNDERWRITTEN BY 

* m CNktassurance 

CNA ASSURANCE COMPANY- HEAD OFFICE 1 GO BlOOR 
STREET EAST • TORONTO • CANADA • AFFILIATED 
WITH CANADIAN PREMIER LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY 

BROKERAGE DIVISION 


VANCOUVER • CALGARY • EDMONTON • SASKATOON • WINNIPEG • HAMILTON • TORONTO • MONTREAL • QUEBEC CITY • HALIFAX 










CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 
Suite 203, 102 Eglinton Ave. East 
Toronto, Ontario M4P 1E1, Canada 
Honorary President Presidente honoraire 
Mary S. Edgar 

President President 

John Latimer, 102 Eglinton Ave. E., 
Suite 203, Toronto, Ont. M4P 1E1 
Regional Vice-Presidents 

Vice-Presidents regionaux 

John Hasell, 1616 W. 7th Ave. 
Vancouver, B.C. 

Eileen Mayotte, 87 Coldwell Rd., 
Regina, Sask. 

Ron Johnstone, 805 Valetta St., 
London, Ont. N6H 2Z2 
Robert Lazanik, 5165 Sherbrooke St. W. 
Suite 316, Montreal 260, Que. 

Robert Cameron, Recreation & Parks Dept., 
City Hall, Main St., Moncton, N.B. 
Secretary Secretaire 

Jay Haddad, 1685 Somme Ave., 
Windsor, Ont. 

Treasurer Tresorier 

Bryan Graham, Coopers & Lybrand 
145 King St. West, Toronto 1 
Past President L'ex-president 

Rev. David Hartry, 

Diocese of Nassau of the Bahamas 
P.O. Box N107, Nassau, N.P., Bahamas 
Committee Chairmen Presidents des comites 
Canadian Camping Magazine 
Bill Henderson, 1162 Bay Street 
Toronto 181, Ont. 

National Camping Day 
Doug Dent, 145 Lincoln Road, 
Waterloo, Ont. 

Standards 

Hank Roessingh, 540 — 49 Ave. S.W., 
Calgary 6, Alta. 

Fund Raising 

Grant McKeen, 1309 McLean Drive, 
Vancouver 6, B.C. 

Canoe Schools 
Claude Cousineau, 

School of Physical Education & Recreation, 
University of Ottawa, Ottawa KIN 6N5,Ont. 
Constitutional Task Force 
Stanley Wild, 740 Avenue Road, 
Toronto 7, Ont. 

Publications 
Brian Blackstock, 

Mazinaw Lake Outdoor Education Centre, 
Cloyne, Ont. 

Outdoor Education 
Robert Cameron, 

Recreation and Parks Dept., City Hall, 
Main St., Moncton, N.B. 

Editorial Committee Comite de redaction 
Bill Henderson (Chairman), Bob Attfield 
Brian Blackstock, Jean Darrach, 
Eanswythe Flynn, Bruno Morawetz, 
Jocelyn Palm, Ann Prewitt, Paul Rush ton, 
Kirk Wipper, Barbara Currie, Bryan Graham 


table of contents-sommaire 


Vol. 25 No. 4 

Summer Edition 1973 edition d'ete 

HAVE YOU HEARD? DO YOU KNOW? . 2 

by Helen Stewart 

A MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT. 3 

by John Latimer 

THE WATER CURE. 3 

an anonymous poem 

POEMS . 4 

by Mary S. Edgar 

NATIONAL CAMPING DAY. 5 

by Doug Dent 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR. 7 

MAKE YOUR OWN PADDLES . 9 

by Bruno Morawetz 

A PROGRAMME IDEA . 10 

by Ian Anderson 

TIPS . 10 

by Helen Stewart 

CAMPCRAFTCAN BE FUN . 12 

by Dr. Bruce Booking 

ALONG THE BOOKSHELF . 15 

CLASSIFIED ADS. 15 

CAMP-AN OASIS. 16 

by Jack Pearse 

CAMP COUNSELLORS SHOULD BE CAMP COUNSELLORS. 18 

by Mary L. North way 

LOOK FOR THE HIDDEN DIMENSION. 20 

by John H. Wilkinson 

YOU AND YOUR KITCHEN. 23 

by R.M. Semple 

Cover Couverture 


Courtesy Ontario Ministry of Industry & Tourism 


CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
Published 4 times a year 
By The Canadian Camping Association 

Subscription rates: $3 - 1 year, $8-3 years 
(Distributed free to members) 

$1 - a single copy 

Editor editrice 

Helen E. Stewart 
Apt. 510, 240 Markland Drive 
Etobicoke, Ontario M9C 1R3 
(416) 621-3791 

Advertising Manager chef de la publicite 
Paul Rushton 
38 Cliffside Drive 
Scarborough, Ont. MIN 1L3 


Provincial Offices Bureaux provinciaux 

B.C. Camping Association — 1309 McLean 
Drive, Vancouver 6, B.C. (Grant McKeen, 
Pres.). 

Alberta Camping Association — 2402 — 
27 St., S.W. Calgary, Alta. T3E 2G3 (Jan 
James, Pres.). 

Saskatchewan Camping Association — P.O. 
Box 823, Regina, Sask. (Michael Pezderic, 
Pres.). 

Manitoba Camping Association — Suite 217, 
267 Edmonton Street, Winnipeg, Man. 
(Gordon Stewart, Pres.). 

Ontario Camping Association — 102 Eglinton 
Ave. East, Suite 203, Toronto, Ont. 
M4P 1E1 (Jack Pearse, Pres.). 
L'association des camps du Quebec, and 
Quebec Camping Association — 952 


Cherrier St., Montreal, Quebec (Rev. 
Pere Rosaire Corbin, pres.). 

English section: 2233 Belgrave Ave., 
Montreal 261, Que. (Zave Ettinger,Pres.). 
Section frangaise: 952 rue Cherrier, 
Montreal, Que. (Rev. Pere Rosaire 
Corbin, pres.). 

Nova Scotia Camping Association — 55 
Purcell's Cove Road, Halifax, N.S. (Rev. 
David Boston, Pres.). 

New Brunswick Camping Association — 
Box 373, Fredericton, N.B. (Tim Easley, 
Pres.). 

Newfoundland & Labrador Camping Associ¬ 
ation — Box 4188, St. John's, Nfld. 
(Frank Jennings, Pres.). 


1 





















hc<wd? do 


A 




xP 


4 


1 wish you could have shared my experience 
of a few weeks ago when I attended the Board of 
Directors Meeting in Vancouver. I’m sure you will be 
interested in hearing about some of the highlights, decisions 
made, and impressions gained. The warm reception at the airport 
by Grant McKeen, John Hasell, Jack Way, John Calder was but the avant- 
garde of many interesting people who had been only names to us before. A A 
new Committee, ARCHIVES, is to be established to gather material and documents 
to be housed at the University of Waterloo and made available to anyone in Canada and the 
world. A Claude Cousineau has been appointed as our liaison with the Ministry of Transport on 
the policy-forming Committee regarding life jackets. Every province is asked to express its views and 
policy with regard to life jackets to Claude so he may speak on our behalf with a forceful, well-supported 
voice. A Lome Brown has been asked to investigate the possibilities of establishing a programme for Instructors in 


% 




Nature Lore, Campcraft and Survival.A 
Stan Wild reported that the revised 
Constitution will be circulated, in both 
official languages, to all Associations 
and the final vote must be cast no later 
than October 30th. A Val Willis has 
accepted the responsibility of putting 
together a National Code of Ethics. A 
The C.C.A. is having financial diffi¬ 
culties. The services needed to provide 
our membership with the information 
and material they require has increased 
immeasurably over the past few years. 
Fees to C.C.A. have not increased for 
over 15 years . . . and yet the Board 
agrees that we must try and avoid in¬ 
creasing the fees of Member Camps and 
Individual Members. A new schedule 
was accepted and the Provincial Associ¬ 
ations are being asked, therefore, to 
financially assist the C.C.A. to help 
rectify a deficit budget of over $2500. 
for the coming year. One of the prob¬ 
lems is the state of our magazine, as 
capably outlined by Bill Henderson. 
The provinces are responding to our 
plea for articles but the response has 
to be extended to include the financial 
aspect of the magazine. On the request 
from Bill, each provincial president has 
taken on the committment to find an 
advertising agent who will receive a 
commission and produce one page of 
advertising for each issue. A tall order 
but since the advertisements must pay 
for the printing of the magazine, all 
the provinces will have to give a hand 
in this advertising game if we want a 
better magazine. When you consider 
that all the advertisements appearing 
in the last three issues have been 
tracked down by Paul Rushton then 
surely a concerted effort by all the 
provinces will bring great results. Then, 
“Canadian Camping” can bring to its 
camping readers many articles of inter¬ 
est that have passed over our desk. A 


Ron Johnstone assumes the position of 
Regional Vice-President on the Execu¬ 
tive. Jack Pearse who did a superb job 
in the same position now takes his 
place on the Board as the new Presi¬ 
dent of O.C.A. while Gordon Stewart 
of M.C.A., Michael Pezderic of S.C.A., 
and Father Rosaire Corbin of L’asso- 
ciation des camps du Quebec and 
Quebec Camping Association join the 
group as the new Presidents of their 
Associations. With these replacements, 
the Executive and Board remain the 
same. A Gary Luthy represented 
A.C.A.’s President at the meeting be¬ 
cause Jan James is on leave of absence 
in Australia. Bryan Graham, as the 
Treasurer, capably handled his report 
and we feel he has the interests of the 
C.C.A. at heart. It is rumoured that 
P.E.I. is considering joining the 
C.C.A. A The person on the Canadian 
camping scene who needs to feel his 
efforts are worthwhile is Doug Dent. 
Ever since the inception of National 
Camping Day three years ago, the pro¬ 
gramme and work have been ably 
carried by Doug and his Committee. 
And from what we have heard, the 
response last summer was rather dis¬ 
heartening . . . the bulk of the response 
coming from the Girl Guides and 
Ontario. With about 600 Member 
Camps serving some 400,000 campers, 
how can we help but not make camp¬ 
ing and its values known on this day? 
We fail to understand why it is by¬ 
passed by so many camps. If the camp 
director believes in it, the campers and 
staff will surely follow. Isn’t it time for 
you disbelievers in National Camping 
Day to review the idea behind this 
event and support it wholeheartedly? 
Our campers and staff plan the day. In 
our camp circle last summer, we all 
felt the intangible contact with fellow 
campers across Canada as our flag was 


lowered to the singing of “My Country 
is my Cathedral”. The C.C.A. holds 
conferences to bring directors and staff 
together. This day is one way to bring 
campers together and renew our faith 
in this country of ours. “Corny” but 
true. A At the C.C.A. Annual Meeting 
in Vancouver, John Latimer read tele¬ 
grams expressing best wishes from 
Mary S. Edgar and Pierre Trudeau. 

Only words of praise can be written 
about the B.C.C.A. . . . not only for 
their hospitality in Vancouver but the 
leadership shown at their Conference 
and Annual Meeting in Parksville. Dave 
Campbell, Rick Ryan, Ken Goodwin, 
Diane Black, Lome Bowering, John 
Edwards and Paul Danpier were the 
people very much on the scene, assis¬ 
ted by many others. A We cannot 
leave the B.C. scene without comment¬ 
ing on three people who left their 
mark on us. . . May Brown, as gracious 
as ever, so thoughtfully placed a spring 
bouquet of daffodils and narcissus on 
the Board table; Blackie Blackstock, 
whose quiet strength and dignity have 
earned for him the esteem of fellow 
Canadians; and Lome Brown, whose 
sense of humour is only surpassed by 
his Bad Boy sombrero. A a belated 
but gentle tip of our hat to another 
gracious lady who has, for many years, 
been a firm supporter of the Q.C.A. - 
Mrs. Alta Kahn. A richly deserved 
honour will be bestowed on her by 
Q.C.A. in May and our fall edition will 
feature an article about her. A M.C.A. 
who has received a $2100. provincial 
grant in order to hire a person to handle 
public relations for the Association will 
hold its annual conference, co-sponsor¬ 
ed with the Manitoba Outdoor Educa¬ 
tion Association at Brandon University, 
May 10-12. A jh e N.S.C.A. Confer¬ 
ence is to be held at King's College, 
Halifax, May 4-6. A (corn'd, on page 15) 


2 



A Message from the President 
Message du President 


At the April Workshop of the British Columbia Camping 
Association, Jack Pearse gave a tremendously inspiring and thought- 
provoking address. One of the statements which lingered in my 
mind was "It's not the age difference which creates the generation 
gap — it's the lack of common experiences". During the same 
Conference, John Young of Campbell River, B.C. emphasized the 
fact that organized camping is unique in a child's development be¬ 
cause it is the only time in which he can get to know his leaders 
(teachers) as people — as human beings. When / put these two 
statements together / realized they blended into one of the powerful 
'secrets' which determines the degree of success of a camp. 

Buildings, food, facilities, even activities are not the key factors 
leading to success . . . it's the Director and his Staff who determine 
success! The Director and his Staff set the tone in Camp. They 
create the environment. They consciously open the doors to let a 
ten-year old walk through and share an experience with a twenty- 
year old. Where else in life can this happen? — Certainly not in 
school — not on the street — not on the playground nor University. 

At Camp, Director and Counsellor can share experiences. At 
Camp, Counsellor and Camper can mutually experience activities, 
laughs, thoughts, hopes, fears and tears. Suddenly we find the 'gap' 
disappears, soon followed by peaks of human sharing which, when 
felt, make life very much worth living in the 'real'sense. 

Let me re-emphasize — It is the role of the Director to build into 
his Camp the atmosphere, the spirit, and the environment which 
allows experiences to be freely shared — and encourages a child to 
'know' his leaders. / am convinced that if to-day's youth see and 
know their to-day's leaders as human beings whom they can trust, 
admire, emulate, and even love, they in turn will be more powerful, 
understanding leaders in tomorrow's world. — And in tomorrow's 
world we are the ones who will be led — by those very same people 
we are now leading. 

What a challenge, as we venture forth into another Camping 
season / 

Have a great summer! - A happy, fun-filled, exciting summer. . . 
and one which not only expands your horizons in enjoying people 
but also expands the horizon of living for the thousands of young¬ 
sters we work with and lead in our Canadian Camps. 


Lors des ateliers de travail tenus par I'Association des camps de 
la Colombie Britarmique, M. Jack Pearse prononga une causerie dont 
la profondeur et la justesse ont provoque en moi certaines reflexions; 
une phrase a cependant retenu mon attention "Ce n'est pas la diffe¬ 
rence d'age qui cree les problemes entre generations . . . c'est 
I'absence d'experiences communes". Au cours de ces memes ateliers, 
M. John Young de Campbell River, C.B. a developpe de fagon bien 
particuliere le fait que le camping "organise" est unique dans le 
developpement de I'enfant en ce sens qu’il est le seul temps ou I'en- 
fant peut apprendre a connaitre ses meneurs (maitres) en tant que 
personnes humaines. Lorsque je reflechis a ces deux citations et que 
je les accole, je realise qu'ils se melent et se confondent d'une 
maniere telle qu'ils determinent le degre de succes d'un camp. 

Les constructions, la nourriture, les commodites, meme les 
activites, ne sontpasles factgurs-cles du succes. C'est le directeur et 
son personnel qui font ce succes! Le directeur et son personnel 
donnent le ton au camp. Ilscreent I'environnement. Consciemment 
ils ouvrent tout grand les portes et permettent aux jeunes de dix ans 
de venir partager des experiences nouvelles avec des jeunes adultes 
de vingt ans. Est-il possible de trouver de telles choses ailleurs? 
Certainement pas a I'ecole — encore moins dans les rues — meme 
pas dans les terrains de jeux, ou a I'Universite. 

Permettez-mois d'insister . . . c'est le role du directeur d'etablir 
dans son camp, I'atmosphere, I'esprit et I'environnement qui per- 
mettra d'exprimer librement les experiences et d'encourager I'enfant 
a mieux connaitre ses meneurs. Je suis convaincu que, si la jeunesse 
d'aujourd'hui voyait et connaissait ses meneurs en tant que per- 
sonne elle les admirerait et les imiterait, el le serait capable de con- 
fiance et d'amitie; ces jeunes deviendraient alors ces meneurs de 
demain, capables de plus de comprehension. Et pour ce monde de 
demain . . . nous sommes ceux qui seront conduits . . . par ces 
memes personnes dont nous sommes aujourd'hui les meneurs. 

Quel defi a mesure que nous avangons vers cette nouvelle saison 
de camp! 

Nous vous souhaitons un merveilleux ete! un ete heureux plein 
de joie et de moments excitants . . . un ete qui non seulement 
ouvrira vos horizons en permettant plus de joie a ces jeunes, mais 
aussi en permettant des horizons nouveaux a ces milliers de jeunes 
pour lesquels nous travaillerons et que nous dirigerons dans les 
camps canadiens. 


The Water Cure 


Sometime when you’re feeling important , 
Sometime when your ego’s in bloom , 
Sometime when you take it for granted 
You’re the best qualified in the room 

Sometime when you feel that your going 
Would leave an unfillable hole — 

Just follow this simple instruction 
And see how it humbles your soul! 


Take a bucket and fill it with water - 
Put your hand in it up to the wrist; 

••• •*« ••• v »*• ••• •;* •** •** ••• •/ **• *j» •;* %• *;• »j» •;« 


Pull it out - and the hole that’s remaining 
Is a measure of how you’ll he missed. 

You may splash all you please when you enter. 
You can stir up the water galore, 

But stop and you ’ll find in a moment 
That it looks quite the same as before. 


The moral in this quaint example 
Is do just the best that you can. 

Be proud of yourself, but remember. 

There’s no indispensable man. 

- Anon. 

************ ************ ********* *** * *** *** *: 


❖ 

V 

V 

% 

* 


3 




by Mary S. Edgar 

Honorary President, Canadian Camping Association 


AN EVERYDAY “THANK-YOU 

Every day these blessings rare 
Call forth a true and earnest prayer: 
i From dawn — on through the evening hou 
Countless precious gifts are ours. 

0 

$7 For eyes by which we clearly see 
Beauty ever fresh and free. 

For lungs to breathe clean morning air 
And nose to smell each fragrance rare. 

For tongue to taste the fruits that grow, 

>-/, For ears by which we learn and know. 

For limbs to walk and climb and run, 

'■V ' A heart that beats till life is done. 

^ • l For friends who love us as we are 
In spite of every fault and scar. 

For memory which holds in store 
Life’s happiest moments ever more. 

~ And Thank-You God because I’m ME, — 

A Person, quite unique, and free. 

Please guide me in the things I do. 

Thus make Your dream for me come true. 

^Editor’s Note: These poems were composed by Miss Edgar 
expressly for the National Conference at Geneva Park. 
S^^wMiss Edgar has provided extra copies of these poems for 
V ^distribution. If you wish a copy, contact the Editor. 


•4 


A CAMP VESPER PRAYER 

God of the night and stars 
Tending the fires of day, 

Be with us as the sunset dies 
and colours fade away. 

May incense from our campfires bear 
Our gratitude to You in prayer. 

Most days begin with song of birds 
And meadows bright with dew, 

With breezes blowing fresh and clean 
Beneath a sky of blue. 

Our meals combined with songs and fun 
Bring comradeship for everyone. 

We thank You for eventful days 
That challenge us to try 
To play the game with sportsmanship 
And set our standards high. 

Now as the daylight fades away 
We thank You for a happy day. 

THE BUMBLE BEE 

‘‘The bumble bee should never try to fly!” 

This is a scientific fact, they say 
‘‘His wing-span is inadequate for flight, 

To lift him up and carry him away. ” 

The bumble bee has never heard of this, 

The law of gravity he still defies. 

Spreading out his frail and stubby wings 
He stubbornly goes soaring to the skies. 

A symbol this! — Defiant faith which cries: 

‘‘It can’t be done, — but still I have to try! 
My wings of hope will guide me to my goal; 
My daring dreams will lift me to the sky. ” 


4 










NATIONAL CAMPING DAY 



Doug Dent, 

Chairman, 

National Camping Day Committee, 
145 Lincoln Road, Waterloo, 
Ontario N2J 2N8. 


National Camping Day 1973 will be 
recognized on Wednesday, July 18th, 
culminating at 9:30 p.m., Daylight 
Saving in each Time Zone. 

The following is a suggested pro¬ 
gramme to occur at that time, as some 
camps prefer not to be restricted and. 
some may not be so physically located: 

.Whatever leadup programme 

you may have prior to 9:30 p.m. will 
end, possibly with a torchlight parade 
to the waterfront or some such beach 
area, for a floating campfire - a truly 
impressive sight - and presentation of 
what is happening elsewhere at that 
same time; and campfire songs too, 
such as “This Land is Your Land”, “It’s 
a Long Road to Freedom”, “Get To¬ 
gether”, “My Country is My Cathedral”, 
“Four Strong Winds”, “Sounds of 
Silence”, “As I Open the Door”, 
“Happy Wanderer”, “Jacob’s Ladder”, 
“Something to Sing About, This Land 
of Ours”, etc. Also, Mary S. Edgar’s 
poem “A Camp Vesper Prayer ” (ap¬ 
pearing in this issue) could be a fitting 
part of the evening. 

Then finish off with “Taps” or your 
own Camp Song, and possibly a torch¬ 
light parade back to cabins or tents. 

This part of the day can be long or 
short - it depends on the atmosphere 
and interest generated. 


What occurs during the day is up to 
you. Special events are as numerous as 
camps. In the National Camping Day 
Brochure, which all camps will receive, 
there is a copy of the evaluation report 
of 1972’s event with some interesting 
methods of celebration chosen by 
some camps. 

The objectives of National Camping 
Day are five-fold: 

(1) To unite all such camping pro¬ 
grammes with the realization that 
theirs is truly a national involve¬ 
ment. 

(2) To make the general public 

aware in a positive way of the values 
of organized children’s camping — 
nature and pollution; group rela¬ 
tions and the democratic processes 
of living together; social awareness; 
development of skills for leisure 
benefit later in life. 

(3) To make the general public 

aware of local children’s camping 
facilities. 

(4) To make the media and so the 
public recognize the national scale 
of such camping operations and 
their increasing importance and in¬ 
volvement in relation to growing up 
and education (witness Outdoor 
Education). 

(5) To make the public and media 


aware of the beneficial use of land 
and environment made by such 
camping operations. 

This is to be an opportunity for 
campers and staff throughout the realm 
to share something special, something 
meaningful, a feeling of oneness. 

For those of us who attended the 
C.C.A. workshop at Geneva Park in 
February — if only we could recreate 
nationally that feeling of excitement, 
expectation and keenness about camp¬ 
ing that all experienced during the 
audio-visual presentation, what better 
advertising could camping ask for! 

News releases will be issued from 
this office as will the brochures. Na¬ 
tional Camping Day lapel stickers and 
posters. Also, if you need copies of the 
songs noted or ideas re programme 
events, please write to the address 
above. Hopefully, too, we will obtain 
the involvement of a prominent 
national personage. However, let your 
local media know what’s going on at 
your camp; invite them and the com¬ 
munity to participate - do something! 




PRINTERS OF THE CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 


SURREY OFFSET PRINTERS LIMITED 
1149 Bellamy Road, Unit 5, Scarborough, Ontario 
291-3294 291-5084 

Where Quality and Service are a Way of Life 


•CREATIVE DESIGN & ART 
•COMPLETE COLOUR PRINTING 

• CATALOGUES 

• BROCHURES 

• FLYERS 

• LETTERHEADS 

• ENVELOPES 


5 







MEDICAL 
SUPPLIES 
FOR CAMPS? 


Starkmans of course, because we have been supplying all the major 
camps for over 37 years. 

Starkmans wholesale division gives you one source of supply—fast 
service, and all orders are shipped the same day received. 

You are sure of the finest First Aid equipment, drugs and medicines, 
call or write, and remember low, low prices prevail at Starkmans. 


‘3n the Set vice o/ Medicine' 


STARKMAN 

CHEMISTS LIMITED 
1243 Bathurst St., Toronto 
Ontario MSS 1Y1 
Telephone: (416) 534-8411 
















“Geneva Park demeurera dans la memoire de ceux qui ont 
participe a ces ateliers comme un pole important des pro- 
fessionnels que nous sommes. 

Des ateliers ou plusieurs se sont enthousiasmes avec 
d’autres directeurs de camps preoccupes comme eux de 
plein air, du bien-etre de nos campeurs, du souci de ren- 
contrer les nouveaux defis qui s’offrent aux camps, part out. 

Merci a ceux qui ont rendu possible ces ateliers, a ceux 
qui les ont mis en place. Merci a ceux qui ont participe pour 
ce qu’ils ont echange, pour ce qu’ils furent. 

Apres tout, les camps. .. e’est nous! ” 

Yves Beauregard , Quebec 

“1 felt the atmosphere was a more cohesive atmosphere, right 
from the start. People were talking about ideas rather than 
being overly protective of their respective camp philoso¬ 
phies. There were some very open sharing sessions of some 
down-to-earth problems. People seemed to be genuinely 
concerned with some of the many problems facing organized 
camping. The individual sessions seemed to go over very well. 

The singsong at night with Bob Lazanik at the piano, 
coupled with the Saskatchewan high jinks with all their 
promotional material helped to keep the conference on a 
high note. 

A wind and cheese party, large campfires and the banquet 
were fast moving events that made our stay at Geneva Park 
a most enjoyable and productive one. 

My only suggestion for improvement would be to bring 
the people in the Wednesday afternoon and evening. The 
time was too short.” 

John Hanlin , Alberta 

“Recently, many of us have become skeptical whenever the 
term “workshop” is used. All too often the workshop takes 
on the format of a conference or formal presentation where 
papers are given, but little participation is experienced by 
those attending. The February workshop, sponsored by the 
Canadian Camping Association, renewed our faith in 
workshops. 

Camp directors from across Canada chose three from a 
possible eight workshops to participate in. Bruno Morawetz 
is a master leader in a workshop situation. His session 
entitled “Recruiting Campers” saw maximum participation. 

The workshop choices were difficult ones to make. Each 
workshop title was obviously well chosen because of its 
relevance to the Camp Director. Many of us found that the 
workshop on “Funding”, led by Ross Seaman, left us the 
most to grapple with in terms of new information. 

From the first dynamic A-V session by John Latimer 
and Jay Haddad to the final session featuring Mary Edgar 
and Ron Johnstone, the workshop was a delight.” 

Morley Lee , Manitoba 


“If only 1 could spend the summer visiting the camps of the 
directors I’ve met at this conference.” These words of my 
roommate convey a very vivid picture of the communication 
between the directors from many various types of camps 
across Canada who attended the CCA National Workshop 
at Geneva Park. 

Though we were housed in the luxury of Geneva Court, 
there was an aura of true camp spirit throughout the week¬ 
end. It came from the opening welcome and fine audio-visual 
presentation by John Latimer; the learning experience of 
the workshop sessions; the warm fellowship of our French 
Canadian delegates and their beautiful songs; the camp fire 
on Friday night; the closing banquet and ceremonies on 
Saturday night, with the moving poetry of that grand lady, 
Miss Mary Edgar, and the sincere and inspiring speech of 
Ron Johnston, OCA president; the final farewells on 
Sunday morning. We came together and shared, taught and 
learned, gave and received, and went away enriched.” 

Blanche Potter, Nova Scotia 

“I submit the following highlights which were helpful to me 
through attending the C.C.A. Conference at Geneva Park. 

It was very enlightening to have participated in the 
session on funding; many areas of availability of materials 
and grants for camps were discussed which were previously 
unknown. 

In the session on recruiting and training camp staff, it 
was helpful to discuss various approaches to interviewing 
prospective counsellors and also the content that should be 
in the application form to be completed by the applicant. 
Emphasis was rightly and importantly placed on the pre- 
camp training of the counsellors. 

The workshop on meeting the changes of the society was 
another very full, but stimulating session. 

Camping today is not one of physical survival but of 
psychological survival. A sense of confidence should be set 
up in each camper; the camp should help our young people 
come to grips with their deep feelings, counteracting the 
type of manipulating society in which we live and which 
has its influence upon us. 

Last, but not least, is the highlight of associating with 
many Canadians of varied camp experiences. The periods of 
reception, campfire and singsong were excellent in socializ¬ 
ing and learning from people with common interests in 
Canadian Camping!” 

Joy Renniek t New Brunswick 

“Initially, the site for the Camp Directors Workshop, 
Geneva Park, would be difficult to surpass. The facilities 
and atmosphere allow for so much total involvement. 

Besides the asset of meeting and working with so many 
people from across the country, the Workshop, I feel, was 
invaluable in the amount of work covered, the number of 
suggestions - resolutions passed along to the C.C.A. Execu¬ 
tive for consideration - action, and the amount of input 
that was realized by all. If nothing else, we should now 
better comprehend the direction and problems faced by 
other provinces and not relate totally to our own local 
situations. To assume everybody is facing similar problems 
re: funding, health regulations, minimum wage, etc., is 
general. To hear that certain problems are, in fact, similar 


7 


r 


elsewhere and to learn how these are being tackled is 
specific. I would suggest Ontario has learned from Saskatche¬ 
wan and New Brunswick how to get LIP etc., grants! 

Importantly, however, is the fact that all sessions were 
recorded to allow fora written resume for all who attended. 
The C.C.A. is to be congratulated on its organization and 
handling of the conference. If only that same feeling, 
experienced by all during the audio-visual presentation and 
the speakers’ remarks, could be transmitted to the public 
and media, what advertising!” 

Doug Dent, Ontario 


^3St95SSr 


“On behalf of Grant and myself, I enclose our thoughts and 
reactions to the Ontario Conference. 

One of the delightful aspects of this Conference was the 
appearance of a large number of new faces, with their 
attendant enthusiasm and new ideas. 

The sessions were most informative and the resource 
people were of top quality. The reporting back was well 
carried out and gave us all a clear over-view. 

We enjoyed the informality and we were able to make 
new triends and share common concerns. We all thought 
that Geneva Park made an ideal conference site, being 
comfortable and in the right setting. 

The feed-back to Provinces was valuable, and this is an 
essential component of such conferences. 

I, personally, was frustrated with the Standards Work¬ 
shop. A great deal of credit should be given to the organisers, 
and the B.C. delegates wish to thank them for their efforts. 

It is very clear to us as a National body that we must 
really develop guidelines and concrete proposals to improve 
such conferences, and to make certain that they continue 
to reflect the concerns of membership.” 

John Hasell, British Columbia 


“We left Saskatchewan with high expectations. We arrived 
at Geneva Park with great anticipation and then suddenly 
we were there, a part of that scene called camping. We were 
accepted as people - as people in camping, by people in 
camping with a wealth of experiences. This acceptance in 
itself was a wonderful feeling and perhaps unexpected as 
we, from Saskatchewan, showed our youth, our limited 
experience, and an enthusiasm for camping and living that 
we're sure all became aware of. This, too, was accepted. 
What an experience what people what love. Another 
theory proven. Love isn’t love until you give it away. 
Thanks for Geneva Park, C.C.A. Have another one 
Saskatchewan will be there.” 

Saskatchewan’s lively dozen 


Editor's Note: It is hoped that the above is the forerunner 
for many more letters so that this column will be a feature 
in every Edition. 



If you enjoy working with 
your hands (so many people 
do), then you will appreciate 
the contents of our new 1973 

CRAFT 

CATALOGUE 

and 

IDEA BOOIC 


Its 132 pages are’full of Craft 
ideas, basic instructions and 
materials you can use during 
your creative leisure hours. 
Many craftworkers consider it 
a reference book on contempor¬ 
ary Arts 'n Crafts. So f if you 
enjoy working with your hands 
and would like a compliment¬ 
ary copy, simply send us your 
name and address. 



284-286 KING ST. WEST, 
TORONTO 2B. CANADA 





»»>>/< 













































































Make Your Own Paddles 


by Bruno Morawetz, Ph.D. 

Director, Camp Ponacka 



At the recent Ontario Camping Association Conference, one of our campers demonstrated the making of a paddle. Since 
it aroused so much interest - even for girls’ camps - it was felt that it might be written up for camping people across Canada. 


PROCEDURE: 


MATERIALS: Clear basswood, free from knots 

A piece of 1" x 6", 6-ft. long rough 
lumber, not planed. 

REQUIRED EQUIPMENT: Wood vise A saw 

Sharp drawknife A steel rasp 
Sandpaper 

Choose a paddle of the kind you wish to 
make. Lay it on the board from which the 
paddle is to be made, and trace the exact 
outline on the board. When this is done, 
cut with a saw to the outline (not too 
close), several cuts. .. maybe 6" apart .. . 
and then, with the drawknife or a chisel, 
get the rough outline of the paddle made. 
After that, take a drawknife and shave all 
the wood away, so that all that is left is 
the pencil mark that outlines the whole 
paddle. Do not start to round any parts 
until the whole paddle has the exact shape 
of the outline. Then, with a pencil, draw 
a line all around the paddle, 1/2" from 
the edge, so that the ultimate edges of the 
blade, of the grip, and of the shaft, are 
marked. Then take a drawknife and shape 
the blade first . . . then the grip, leaving 
the shaft completely square. After the 
blade and the grip have been shaped com- 
plately with a drawknife, take a rasp, then 
Draw a line sandpaper, and smooth it. Only after that 
bisecting the is done should you start to work on the 
depth of the shaft . . . and again, you proceed with the 
wood to drawknife, then the rasp, then the sand- 

prevent paper, 

over-trimming 



It is important not to make certain places 
too thin. The tendency is to make the 
indenture just underneath the grip (where 
the grip becomes the shaft), a little bit too 
thin. It is also a danger to make the throat 
of the paddle too thin. 

FINISHING OF PADDLE: There are many ways of doing 
this. One of the best is, perhaps, linseed 
oil. Oil the paddle several times and stay 
away from varnish altogether. This pro¬ 
tects the wood against splitting, and I 
believe that even varnish can be put on 
the paddle after this. 

P.S.: It must be remembered that a paddle 

made from basswood is light and not par¬ 
ticularly strong, but it is the easiest wood 
to work with. We have also made paddles 
at our camp from maple and black cherry. 
They are much harder to work in, but 
they make lasting paddles and are ex¬ 
tremely strong. For the younger boys, 
however, basswood is to be recommended. 


Shaping Tools 


IPS 

Drawknife 



Rasp 



9 






















c 


A Programme Idea 




Diplomacy Day 


Camp Ponacka 

(edited) 



Counsellors at Ponacka decided last 
summer that it was time to stop 
relying on traditional Sunday after¬ 
noon programs such as Gold rush Day 
and Olympic Day. The result? DIPLO¬ 
MACY a game which recreates the 
world situation in a camp setting. 

Structure of the Came 

The camp is divided into various 
countries with approximately fifteen 
campers and two counsellors per coun¬ 
try. Each country is designated some 
waterfront area. A central- district 
houses a national booth from each 
group, as well as a “Central Trade 
Board”, manned by counsellors. All 
countries are serviced by trucking lines 
on land and international shipping by 
water. 

Purpose of the Game 

Each country must manufacture 
products from its own, or another 
country’s, supply of raw materials 
(which can be obtained by trading). 
The country that produces the most 
products wins. The attraction of the 
game is in the wheeling and dealing 
which results from trade. 

How to Prepare 

Assemble a master list of raw ma¬ 
terials to be distributed dispropor¬ 
tionately but in equal amounts. Items 
such as nails, wood, twine, sugar, cups, 
noodles, cloth and othereasily obtained 
articles are best. Divide the articles 
among the countries before die game 
begins. Each nation is given a copy of 
the master list and 100 Ponax or 
whatever you wish to call the currency 
which you invent. 

Playing the Game 

During the first half hour of the 
game, each country gathers on its home 
ground, examines its master list, and 
decides what products it would like to 
make. The game begins after tliis half 
hour when transportation routes are 
set in operation. Several citizens from 
each nation operate their booth at the 


central trade board and each country 
sends delegates to the Trade Board to 
buy any necessary materials. All 
money transactions take place at the 
Central Trade Board. 

All travel must be made by ship or 
truck. Trade routes stop at each 
country. Here realism can be added by 
demanding the blow of a fog horn at 
each port. Trucks (imaginary wheel¬ 
barrows) connect countries by land. 
Counsellors are ship captains and truck 
drivers, who prevent border hopping, 
which can destroy the effect of the 
game by disregarding the idea of 
specific boundaries. 

Tourists and Bombing! 

Visitors, who might be extra staff 
members or real camp visitors, may be 
given currency and allowed to travel 
about the world all afternoon, buying 
products which must be representative 
of the country Eiffel Towers from 
France, mummies from Egypt, Rem¬ 
brandts from Holland, and so on. 

Each country is given five bombs 
(painted sticks) which may be used to 
cause property damage to another 
country. Each bomb dropped costs the 
victim 5 Ponax which is deducted from 
the nation’s final score. Countries 
not faring too well may form alliances 
and, by pooling their bombs, decrease 
the winning rival’s score. The Central 
Trade Board keeps tabulation of who 
is winning. The scoring is very simple. 
Five Ponax are awarded for each raw 
material that has been imported for 
producing an article. Of course, tourist 
revenue will boost a nation’s revenue. 

Excitement builds to a climax as 
nations vie for top position by feverish 
trading and alliance forming. Fortun¬ 
ately, Diplomacy Day rules can be 
shaped to meet the varying facilities 
of different camps. If adequate prepa¬ 
ration is made, your campers may show 
enough enthusiasm and international 
diplomacy to put the United Nations 
to shame! 



During their pre-camp Staff Orientation pro¬ 
grammes, many camps choose a theme that 
carries through the entire orientation sched¬ 
ule. Last year at C amp Tawingo, we selected 
the theme “A happy Camper is . . ." and at 
each session during the pre-camp week, the 
session leaders prefaced their presentations 
with the theme, l or instance, the Health 
Director said “A happy camper is a healthy 
camper". The Music Director said. "A happy 
camper is a singing camper". And so on. 

It helped all of us to realize the relevance 
of the orientation sessions and it focused on 
the prime purpose for Camp the happi¬ 
ness of our campers. 

In summarizing the Orientation week, I 
talked about our first Camp objective "To 
assure the happiness of campers by making 
the camping experience fun". Each staff 
member was presented with a "MATCHED" 
button (see diagram) and we talked about 
the importance of being "matched” with 
campers, with fellow staff, with the Camp 
philosophy. Each letter of "matched" was 
used to begin a word which formed the 
guiding phrase for our summer of Camp 
leadership 
Make 
A 

I awingo 
C am per 
Happy 
Every 
Day 

I found a song written by Joe Lawrence 
of "The Travellers" folk-singing group and 
composed a special verse which was taught 
to the staff. It is a great camp song. If you 
don't have it in your repertoire now, you 
should get it. The Chorus and my new verse 
are as follows: 

TALK ABOUT PEACE 

Chorus 

They're talking about love, talking about 
peace 

Talking about a world full of happiness 
Talking about love vour neighbour as 
yourself 

Talking about friendliness 
Talking about do unto others as you would 
Have others do unto you 
And with thoughts like that running 
through your head 

There's nothing good that you can 7 do. 
Third verse 

There’s a whole lot of campers in this 
old camp 

Looking for someone who ’ll care 
It doesn 7 cost much just to throw them 
a smile 

They’ll carry it everywhere 

So smile and laugh and sing and shout 

Just be happy and gay 

It’ll bounce right back if you throw it out 

Make a camper happy every day. 

Perhaps you have a theme for Staff 
Orientation that you would like to share. 
This year, we are thinking about this: 

“I know where I’m going.and I know 

who's going with me." 

Jack Pearse 



10 









UNIVERSAL PIZZA 

3188 LENWORTH DR., MISSISSAUGA, ONT. 

Best Pizza Made 


SUPPLIERS OF GOVERNMENT INSPECTED 
PIZZA CRUSTS and RELATED INGREDIENTS 
PIZZA OVENS & ACCESSORIES 


From 


comes the 

"MARSAN" 


TENT . . . Lightweight Cotton Roof & Walls 
FLY ... . Light, rugged Poly Weave 
WINTER LINER . . . Breathable Cotton 
POLES . . . Optional Extra 


who created the DAVOS ROBE 

FORESTER MK 3 ROBE 


100 PACKSACK 


200 PACKSACK 


For complete information, write to: 


'WOODS' 

BAG & CANVAS CO. LTD. 

401 Logan Ave. 140 Alexander Ave. 

Toronto 1, Ont. Winnipeg, Man. 


WOODS 






Camp craft 
can be 
fun 


by Dr. Bruce Booking 
Camp Ponacka 


Campcraft, to the casual observer, 
unfortunately often appears as a some¬ 
what boring but a necessary activity at 
camp. To the campcraft instructor it 
can be a very frustrating task trying to 
compete for camper attention, with the 
more enticing activities at camp, such 
as canoeing, sailing and waterskiing. 
This problem is usually the product of 
campcraft programmes which year after 
year do nothing but attempt to instruct 
campers in the old basics of camping, 
such as tent pitching, fire lighting, camp 
cooking etc., and fail miserably to 
accomplish even these. Campers soon 
learn to avoid campcraft as an activity, 
where they are besieged with lectures 
and demonstrations which really only 
serve to put their minds to sleep. 

The fault lies not only with camp¬ 
craft instructors and their programmes; 
camp directors must take their share of 
the blame. They often search diligently 
for months looking for a super quali¬ 
fied instructor to head their swimming 
programme and other waterfront acti¬ 
vities, but then turn around and, at the 
last minute, quickly hire one or two 
counsellors who are relatively inex¬ 
perienced to instruct in campcraft. 
Often these people have little or no 
experience in dealing imaginatively 
with eight to fifteen year old campers. 
Any programme at camp will only be 
as good as the people running it, and 
any camp which intends to make camp¬ 
craft a major and important activity, 
will have to put as much care into the 
hiring of staff for campcraft, as they 
do for any other activity. 

Some people ask if campcraft should 
even be taught at camp. I personally 
feel that, if a camp engages in any form 
tripping, campcraft should be taught. 


It might even be considered compul¬ 
sory for those campers who intend to 
trip. Good camping techniques will 
only serve to make the canoe trip or 
overnight hike more relaxed and pleas¬ 
ant, despite any adverse weather or 
terrain. The skill to choose a good 
camp site, set up a comfortable camp 
and prepare good meals should not be 
the sole property of counsellors or 
guides, but should be taught to each 
camper, no matter how old or inex¬ 
perienced. 

These camping skills, which are 
second nature to an experienced cam¬ 
per, can only be passed on to campers 
if intelligent and imaginative pro¬ 
grammes are used to present them. 
Skills, sjich as fire lighting, axemanship 
and orienteering, are best demonstrated 
briefly at any activity session, and then 
the majority of the sessions spent in 
having the campers do something them¬ 
selves. The finer points of axemanship, 
for example, can be pointed out far 
more effectively by a skilled instructor 
to a camper who is wielding an axe 


Photo courtesy Camp Ponacka 

than if the instructor simply gave a 
lecture or demonstration on the sub¬ 
ject. Campers will soon respond to a 
programme where the emphasis is on 
‘doing’ rather than sitting and learning. 
The learning will come as a valuable 
by-product of experience. 

It is also important for an instructor 
to understand what type of programme 
to present to each age group of campers. 
Young campers will be thrilled and 
challenged at the thought of lighting 
their own fire, cooking their own pot 
of beans or following a simple trail of 
rice through dense woods. Older cam¬ 
pers will respond to a programme of 
tree felling, orienteering and pioneer¬ 
ing projects. It is often easy to set up a 
programme for young campers, but 
such is not the case for older, more 
experienced campers. Thus, I would 
like to mention a few programme ideas 
for these older boys or girls. These 
programmes must be challenging and 
must give the camper a sense of fulfil¬ 
ment and accomplishment on com¬ 
pletion. 







Photo courtesy Camp Mazinaw 

Every teenage boy yearns to be pro¬ 
ficient with an axe. A few short demon¬ 
strations on technique and safety, 
followed by actual practice with an 
axe, under close supervision, will soon 
fulfil this yearning. After each camper 
has had a short turn with an axe to 
demonstrate his ability, divide the 
group of boys into several teams and 
run a competition to determine which 
team can be the first to chop through 
a 12" log. Experienced axemen will do 
this with ease but even the grossest 
amateur can have great fun. If a few 
campers are advanced enough to 
attempt it, tree felling can soon be 
taught so that the camp can be rid of a 
few dangerous dead trees. Indeed, if 
axes are taken along on canoe trips, 
every camper and counsellor who does 
trip should be taught how to split wood 
properly. 

Orienteering is a great activity which 
can quickly capture the imagination of 
a skilled instructor. Several good com¬ 
passes, plus the time to set up several 
short orienteering courses, are all that 
are necessary to run an excellent pro¬ 
gramme. Instructors often feel the 
urge to teach all they know about 
orienteering in one session and then in 
subsequent ones send campers on 
courses by compass and map. They 
would better spend their time teaching 
a few basic skills and then letting the 
camper learn by his own mistakes, 
while following a course. The finest 
skills will come with experience and 
be appreciated far more if learned this 
way. One excellent activity, which 
should be set aside for an entire day, is 
an orienteering race. This is best carried 
out by canoe over a 10-12 mile course 


on a lake, with a set of clues and 
instructions and travelling by map and 
compass, check point to check point 
given to each group. Small tokens are 
left at each check point and groups of 
two campers compete for the fastest 
time and the most tokens brought in. 

I have found that pioneering pro¬ 
jects have offered a challenging and 
enjoyable reward to those campers 
who care to undertake them. They 
require knowledge in the use of knots, 
lashing and axemanship, as well as a 
flair for engineering. Once completed, 
they become an object of pleasure for 
the entire camp, a fact which enhances 
the sense of accomplishment and self- 
confidence in the person who under¬ 
took the project. 

Probably the simplest pioneering 
project is the “A” frame. This is con¬ 
structed from two 20-30 ft. spars which 
are lashed together at the apex by 
diagonal lashing of 1/4" rope. A 6 or 
7 ft. long cross piece is lashed across 
the bottom, with square lashings, to 
form the cross piece of the “A”. A 
second smaller cross piece, if lashed to 
the top of the “A”, will add to the 
stability of the frame. This “A” frame 
can then be placed at the water’s edge, 
at approximately a 30 degree angle 
over the water, with a 1" rope dang¬ 
ling in front of the apex. Younger 
campers will then have hours of pleas¬ 
ure using the same as a tarzan swing 
into the water. 

More complicated projects include 
log rafts, which can be built in com¬ 



petition from logs and 1/2" rope and 
then raced; rope bridges across gullies, 
creeks or just between two large trees 
on level ground; and towers of all sizes 
and shapes. 

The latter can be constructed to 
almost any height, depending on the 
materials available and the skill of the 
builder. This would be an excellent 
project for a cabin group of fifteen 
year old boys. A tall tree with no 


branches on the bottom, 20 or 30 ft., 
such as birch or ironwood, is used as 
one of the legs of the tower, mainly 
for stability. Then two or three addi¬ 
tional legs are raised, using 20 ft. spars 
with the sides 5 to 7 ft. long. Smaller 
spars are lashed between the vertical 
ones at diagonals, using square lashings 
of 1/4" rope. These cross spars are 
lashed at intervals up the sides of the 
tower approximately 4 ft. apart. A 
platform can be built at the top from 
1" poles which are lashed together, 
and then a rope ladder or ladder built 
from small spars can be used to reach 
this platform. An enterprising group 
will build this tower very close to the 
water’s edge. A heavy anchor can be 
dropped into deep water approximately 
30 ft. from the shore and a! 1/2" rope 
strung tightly between the anchor and 
the top of the tower. A heavy pulley 
with a handle attached may then be 
slung from this rope and many hours 
of enjoyment can be spent by campers 
who climb the tower and then hang 
from the pulley and slide down the 
rope into the water. 

The final activity I would like to 
mention, for older campers, is the sur¬ 
vival hike. Each summer a few of the 
most experienced and able campers 
can be selected to engage in such a 
hike. Lessons are first given in survival 
techniques and then each camper is 
given time to prepare a survival kit to 
take with him. A suitable location is 
chosen near an isolated lake or river 
and then campers are dropped off in 
pairs at these sites. These survival hikes 
should last 48 to 72 hours and the 
campers are allowed to take with them 
only the clothes on their back, a sur¬ 
vival kit and an axe. Campers who are 
unable to cope in foreign situations 
should be screened from undertaking 
such a programme. The few who do 
participate will find it to be a worth¬ 
while and exciting endeavour. At the 


Photos courtesy Taylor Statten Camps 



13 



TREMBLAY CANOES 



The finest canoes made in Canada today - correctly designed by craftsmen with 60 years' experience for men who 
really know canoes — stable, seaworthy, safe, capable of riding the roughest water or fast water. 

The unsinkable cedar canoes with no space taken up by floatation tanks. 

Tremblay canoes have for the past 8 years been covered with "Verolite", a plastic-coated canvas which ELIMINATES 
ALL EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE. Lighter than painted canvas and far more durable and scuff resistant - not 
affected by heat or cold. 

After seven years' use by more than 60 Boys' and Girls' camps and by various police units and several governmental 
departments in Ontario and Quebec, also by Paper Mills and Lumbering Companies in their spring drives and by 
Mining and Oil Development Companies and by thousands of canoeists comprising the general public, we have yet to 
have a complaint from any user who was not happy with the performance of Verolite. 

In the construction of Tremblay Canoes only No. 1 Eastern Canada Cedar is used and only solid Brass nails and Brass 
screws are used. The deck pieces, thwarts and seats are of white Birch. Seats may be either slat style or rawhide laced. 
The interior is finished with Urethane Lacquer to provide years of protection. 

For the fisherman, hunter or camp operator, Tremblay offers a complete range of pointed, V-Stern, or flat-wide stern 
canoes in 38 sizes and models. 

Verolite is now available in red, green or orange. Green and orange are colour fast. Red not guaranteed colour fast. 
Carrying yokes can be built in or provided separately. These are extra. 

Verolite covered canoes do not require periodic painting, thus they do not take on added weight with the passing years. 

A Cedar canoe is always preferred by the experienced knowledgeable canoeist. They ride right and handle right. 
For complete information write to the Canadian Sales Representatives, see below. 


Made by 

TREMBLAY CANOES LIMITED 

40 ST. PAUL ST., ST. FELICIEN, QUE. 

EXCLUSIVE SALES REPRESENTATIVES FOR CAN ADA 

CAMERON & TYRELL LTD. 

14 WANDA RD„ TORONTO 165, ONT. Phone 535-1768 





end of such a hike campers can be 
judged on their ability to set up a 
comfortable camp with a minimum of 
equipment and also on their ability to 
find certain survival foods. 

There arc many activities, such as 
those mentioned above, which an 
imaginative campcraft instructor can 
engage in. Libraries and book stores 
are full of books on camping and camp- 
craft. An intelligent person would be 
wise to make use of these resource 
materials. A worthwhile programme in 
campcraft can only be developed 
through much time and effort and 
constant reassessment by the staff, the 
camp director and programme director. 
Great care must be taken in determin¬ 
ing the choice of activities for each age 
group so that the programme will relate 
to each individual camper with con¬ 
sideration given for his age and abilities. 
If such care is taken there is no reason 
why every camp engaging in campcraft 
cannot be proud of its programme. ♦ 

have you heard? do you know? 
S.C.A. is 6 years old this spring. Two 
members who have provided the im¬ 
petus, the prodding and extending con¬ 
stantly the long arm of enthusiasm and 
encouragement and “Yes we can” to 
the organization are to be honoured by 
their fellow members Eileen Mayotte 
and Jack MacKenzie. Their names were 
given to us with the proviso: “Keep 
Hands Off!” ’cause they’re still needed 
in Saskatchewan! ▲ I cannot write 
“30-30” to this column until I have 
passed on my sincere thanks to some 
“I care” folks with whom it has been a 
distinct pleasure to work . . . the pro¬ 
vincial contacts who have sent along 
articles, photos, tips and provincial 
news ... I have used all 1 can to date 
but they will be forthcoming and. 
hopefully, with more advertisements 
procured, the magazine can grow in 
size; and lastly, but most important, 
those “faithfuls” on the Editorial Com¬ 
mittee. for without them our four 
editions, each one better than the last, 
would not have been produced. A 
final-for-the-season tip of the hat to 
my co-workers who make my job so 
intriguing . . . Bill, Bob, Brian, Jean, 
Jocelyn,Kirk,Paul, Eanswythe, Bruno, 
Ann and Bryan. Best wishes to all 
for a happy, fun-filled and exciting 
summer. 

— Helen E. Stewart 


Along the 
Bookshelf 

SNAKES OF CANADA by Barbara Froom 

How many times have you seen a snake in a field or near camp and, terrified, 
taken flight in the opposite direction? Now it is possible to identify both the 
poisonous and the harmless snakes you encounter, take an interest in the role they 
play in the balance of nature, and even keep them as pets. “Snakes of Canada" \s 
a useful identification guide and a descriptive discussion of the origin, classifica¬ 
tion, anatomy and reproduction of snakes in our country. It deals with present-day 
misconceptions of the snake and snakes as pets, and encourages conservation of 
these beneficial creatures. There are many black-and-white illustrations and a 
special section of full colour photographs identifying all Canadian species. 

Available in any book store for $6.95. 

WILD RIVERS AND MOUNTAIN TRAILS 

So often one is at a loss for inspirational ideas when time for a Sunday talk or 
morning meditation comes along. Don Ian Smith’s “Wild Rivers and Mountain 
Trails ”, a book of his own meditations, combines all the necessary elements . . . 
a regard for the vastness and beauty of the outdoors, a responsibility we must 
share for tending our earth, a simple understanding of God and His Creation. Each 
lesson in chapter form is related to some aspect of the country the author knows 
so well . . . The Wild River, High Mountains In The Distance, It’s Your Very Own 
Moonbeam, The Slothful Hunter, Fear Not, To Corner a Toad. Variations of any 
of these themes could take the drudgery out of “preparing the sermon” and give 
campers a fresh approach to everyday living. 

G.R. Welch Co. Ltd., 222 Evans Avenue, Toronto 18, Ont. $3.00. 

Eanswythe Flynn 

A TEEN-AGE GUIDE TO HEALTHY SKIN AND HAIR 

“Dedicated to teen-agers everywhere who will make this a better place for 
living”. Dr. Irwin Lubowe and Barbara Huss have produced a book which should 
be made available to young adult campers . . . and we include staff members. 
Written in readable, lucid and lively style, it covers practical authoritative advice 
on skin and scalp care, hairstyling and treatment, weight control, make-up, plus a 
chapter on the effects of drugs. Cosmetics and their mis-use come up for discus¬ 
sion, but the emphasis in this chapter is the proper use in achieving the best 
results naturally. Humour appears in some of the sub-headings on care of fingers 
and toes: Wally’s Warts, Rhoda’s Red Hands, Barney’s Blisters, Andy’s Athlete’s 
Foot; and when it comes to talk about hair, what other title than “What's On 
Top”? This is the kind of book that directors could make freely available on the 
library shelf or the counsellors’ lodge, because it will draw the interest of young 
people that heavier treatment of the subjects will not. 

Clarke Irwin Co. Ltd., 791 St. Clair Ave. W., Toronto 10. $8.35. 

Eanswythe Flynn 






CLASSIFIED ADS 


NEED HELP 

WITH YOUR CAMPING PROBLEMS? 


Director with over 25 years experience in all 
phases of camping, able to come to your 
assistance! 

W. Bertram Danson 
24 Cheval Drive, Don Mills, 

Ontario M3B 1R6 
Telephone: (416)449-3555 



Parry Sound District 
CAMP FOR SALE 

(Owner retiring) 


This beautiful setting nestled on a 22 acre 
island will be sold as an established going 
concern to the right person. 

Superb canoe tripping country. Excellent 
waterfront program location. 

Can readily be expanded from its present 
70 camper plus staff capacity. 

Box 338, Canadian Camping Magazine 


15 















— j4k OgaI& evAicA Co Aft&it (fiant, 
natAcn tAon a fiant o£, Society 


by Jack Pearse 
Director, Camp Tawingo 



Last Spring I spent a day trying to 
bridge the gap between generations. I 
visited my first camp where I learned 
to swim, where I went on my first out- 
trip, held my first staff position and 
led my first sing song. I hadn’t been 
back since 1953. 

Excitement mounted as the motor- 
boat took us to the island where the 
camp is located - through the rock 
cut, past Gull Rock and Bald Rock and 
Champlain’s Point (where, surely, the 
great explorer must have camped) and 
to the main camp dock. I bounded up 
the hill, eager to begin a self-guided 
tour of camp. First, I went to the boat¬ 
house where I had lived in my last year 
at camp. It was gone - burned down a 
few years ago and replaced by an out¬ 
door theatre. 

So I went to look over the Tent 
Alley, where all the tents used to be 
lined up in a row with a roughly-hewn 
archway at the end of the alley through 
which all the campers and staff used to 
walk while reading the camp motto in 
logs on the archway - “I’m third” - 
God is first, the other fellow is second 
and I’m third. No tents. No archway. 
Cabins had been built in more suitable 
surroundings. 

“Surely, I will recognize my favour¬ 
ite spot - the Council Ring”, I said as 
I all but ran down the path. A post 
that was once a corner of the stage was 
all that remained of the Council Ring. 
A bigger and better council ring had 
been constructed in another part of 
camp. 

In resignation, I began to walk 
around camp to look at all the great 
new things that had occurred in the 
last 20 years and to say “Hello” to all 
the people. I didn’t know a sitiglc per¬ 
son I met in my stroll around my camp. 
I was from another era - another 
generation. 

Then 1 found a corner of a rock 
with my initials painted on it - “J.P. 
1946”. We did it one day when we 
were painting canoes. At noon hour, 
we had a sing song using song sheets 


that I remember putting together in 
1941. Not only that, we sang songs 
that 1 hadn’t sung for 25 years - one 
of which was composed by my Dad in 
1934. And I knew those songs as well 
as anyone in the dining hall. What a 
great feeling! Suddenly I realized that 
it is not a generation gap but a lack of 
common experience that creates a gap 
between people. Just last week I was 
talking with a 22-year-old who told me 
“We can’t understand 18-year-olds. 
They seem to be so different from our 
generation.” 

At the 1972 Ontario Camping As¬ 
sociation Conference, Ruben Nelson, 
the keynote speaker, said we are living 
in a culture that seems to have little 
direction or destination, only speed of 
movement and pride in arriving there 
first. He illustrated with the good 
news/bad news story of the captain of 
a ship who summoned everyone on 
deck to give them the bad news first. 
He said “We are utterly and hopelessly 
lost. Our maps are burned, our compass 
is broken. There is severe cloud cover 
and unpredictable winds.” Then he 
gave the good news “We are 3 days 
ahead of schedule.” 

Society today 

I feel that way sometimes - hope¬ 
lessly lost, but 3 days ahead of schedule. 

I wonder is today’s society with its 
urbanization, automation, sedentary 
living, spectatoritis, lack of creativity 
leading us out of a wilderness or over a 
precipice? And I wonder if we aren’t 
being led in directions we really would 
not choose to go by a few people who 
might change direction again tomorrow. 

Then I think that, maybe, it isn’t 
that way at all. Maybe there is direc¬ 
tion and purpose and destiny. 

And I think about my own particu¬ 
lar vantage point. 

Part of the year l live within the 
protection of the ivory tower of the 
university where we snatch students 
from society - spout sagaciously in an 
attempt to better prepare them for 


society - without really knowing what 
society is about. Then, for the rest of 
the year, 1 hide from the real com¬ 
munity by setting up an ideal com¬ 
munity, or what 1 perceive to be an 
ideal community, at camp. So perhaps 
I don’t have the best vantage point to 
view today’s society but some of the 
things I see are crowded housing where 
there is no place to play, no place to be 
alone and, yet, where the whole idea 
of a commune as a way to live is not 
working. 

In a society where people need and 
want to be with other people, there is 
a pressure to conform to non-confor¬ 
mity and,yet, I think the era of “doing 
your own thing” is drawing to a close. 

Youth are bothered by adults who 
underestimate them, by adults who 
don’t show by example, by adults who 
are not offering direct leadership. 
Therefore, rather than dwelling on the 
changes that have occurred or changes 
some of us think might occur in 
society, I would rather talk about the 
things that don't change like friend¬ 
ship, honesty, love, kindness, sincerity, 
fair play, common decency, respect 
for self and others, sharing. None of 
these things have been swept away with 
the stagecoach, the rickshaw or the 
sailing ship. 

We may have new fashions in dress, 
new kinds of music, new types of air¬ 
planes, but surely we cannot have new 
ideas of right and wrong. 

Camping today 

In the Spring 1973 Edition of “Ca¬ 
nadian Camping” John Latimer said: 
“It becomes more and more obvious 
that our future is, indeed, very promis¬ 
ing. While it is true that some camps 
are closing and many are facing regis¬ 
tration difficulties, we see in Canada 
that many new camps are opening . . . 
and that more children are going to 
camp. Mind you. we have a long way 
to go, and we have a great deal of hard 
work ahead of us, but because of the 
many new, dynamic, exciting people 


16 



who are becoming involved, I cannot 
help but look at camping in a very 
optimistic light.” 

In the April 1973 Edition of the 
“Saturday Review of Education”, the 
feature article by Ellen Bilgore was 
“What Makes a Good Camp?” She re¬ 
ported on camps visited in the north¬ 
east United States of America. One of 
the really successful camps, in her 
opinion, was operated by a former 
president of A.C.A. 

In Ellen Bilgore’s words “What 
they’ve successfully tried to do over 
the years is to create a simple, produc¬ 
tive environment in which the agonies 
of the world are carefully siphoned 
out. No drugs, no sex, and apparently 
no interest in either.” 

And camp need not stop at the end 
of August. The real bonus comes with 
the opportunity to take some of those 
great experiences to others who haven’t 
had the benefit of them. 

G.B. Shaw said: “I am convinced 
that my life belongs to the whole com¬ 
munity, and as long as I live, it is my 
privilege to do for it whatever I can, 
for the harder 1 work, the more I live. 

I rejoice in life for its own sake. Life 
is no brief candle for me. It is a sort of 
splendid torch which I got hold of for 
a moment, and I want to make it burn 
as brightly as possible before turning 
it over to future generations.” 

In the same “Canadian Camping” 
magazine, John Latimer said: “I am 
convinced that we must keep ‘up to 
date’ . . . through a continuing and on¬ 
going knowledge of the society around 
us. If we continue to operate our 
camps as we did ten years ago then I 
do see a real threat. It is true that for 
stability and strength, certain traditions 
must be maintained — but they must 
make sense and, if they don’t, we must 
be flexible and unafraid of change.” A 
short time ago I saw the play “Fiddler 
on the Roof’. It is the story of a poor 
Jewish community in Russia during 
the pre-revolutionary time. 

The main character, Tevye, is a 
milkman who scrapes and digs for a 
living that hardly seems worth it be¬ 
cause of all the setbacks. He spends the 
whole movie justifying the need to 
maintain their traditions. “Without our 
tradition,” says Tevye, “we are as 
shaky as a fiddler on the roof.” 

I believe in the importance of tradi¬ 
tion. If it is digood tradition, then it is 
worth keeping. 


I think camp can serve as an oasis - 
apart from society — without relating 
directly to the changing outside world - 
a place where people can live in an 
atmosphere that isn’t controlled by 
money or sex or booze or minorities 
or advertising or conformity or vested 
interests. 

As long as the camp’s philosophy is 
built on principles rather than limits, 

As long as people know how the 
camp will operate and choose to go 
there, 

As long as people realize that every¬ 
one makes sacrifices for the good of 
everyone else in this kind of setting, 

As long as people have self-respect 
and respect for others, 

As long as the oasis is not treated as 
a Utopia, 

Then people can begin to function 
comfortably in the camp “community” 
with freedom, with understanding, with 
relevance. 

Happiness doesn’t come from doing 
what we like to do but From liking 
what we have to do. 

When Paul Danpier asked me to 
tackle this topic, we didn’t discuss this 
point, but I suspect strongly that when 
the topic was chosen the committee 
was thinking more about camp staff 
than about campers, the notion being 
that it is increasingly difficult for camp 
staff to function effectively when the 
gap is widening between society’s 
norms and a camp director’s expec¬ 
tancies of the staff. There are those 
who say that the ever-widening gap is 
caused by the ever-widening generation 
gap — that it is the camp director 
imposing his medieval ideas on the staff. 

I repeat it is not a generation gap 
but a lack of a common experience 
which creates a gap between people. 
The success of any camp is dependent 
more on the calibre of the staff than 
any other single factor. It is not enough 
to have a high-sounding set of objec¬ 
tives if the leaders aren’t attuned to 
them. It is only when we can say 
“That’s the way / want to live” that 
we can expect to convince others that 
it’s a pretty good way for them to live. 

Eleanor Roosevelt said: “Up to a 
certain point it is good for us to know 
that there are people in the world who 
will give us love and unquestioned 
loyalty to the limit of their ability. I 
doubt, however, if it is good for us to 
feel assured of this without the accom¬ 
panying obligation of having to justify 
their devotion by our own behaviour.” 


I believe changes must occur. I be¬ 
lieve that rest means rust. I believe in 
the expression “when you are through 
changing comma you are through 
period.” However, the key is to know 
when the time has arrived for change 
and when we are faced with a societal 
whim and if they end up being just 
that, then if we don’t have our tradition 
to fall back on, we’re really messed up! 
“Without our tradition,” says Tevye, 
“we are as shaky as a fiddler on the 
roof!” 

Please allow me to close with a 
poem you might have heard or read 
but it bears repeating, I think. It is 
called: 

“THE BRIDGE BUILDER” 

An old man, going along a highway, 
Came at the evening, cold and gray 
To a chasm, vast and deep and wide, 
Thru which was flowing a sullen tide; 
The old man crossed in the twilight 
dim, 

The sullen stream had no fears for him. 
Buthe turned when safe on the other 
side 

And built a bridge to span the tide. 

“Old man, 99 said a fellow pilgrim near, 
“You are wasting strength with 
building here 

Your journey will end with the ending 
day, 

You never again must pass this way. 
You have crossed the chasm deep and 
wide - 

Why build you the bridge at the 
eventide?" 

The builder lifted his old grey head - 
“Good friend, in the path I have 
come,”he said, 

“There follows after me today 
A youth whose feet must pass this way. 
This chasm that has been nothing to me 
To that fait haired youth may a 
pitfall be. 

He, too, must cross in the twilight dim 
Good friend, lam building the bridge 
for him. 99 

Isn’t that what camping is all about? 
Isn’t that what camp leadership is all 
about? 

Isn’t that what Life is all about! ♦ 


Editor's Note: 

The column "Outdoor Cookery"does 
not appear in this issue but will return 
in the Fall issue. 


17 



Photo courtesy Taylor Statten Camps 


CAMP 

COUNSELLORS 
shotiLd be 
Camp 

Counsellors 


by Mary L. Northway 
Brora Centre, Toronto 


The modern camp counsellor appar¬ 
ently should be a mixture of Superman 
and an archangel. It has been suggested 
that he be trained, presumably at the 
graduate level in sociology, psycho¬ 
therapy, group dynamics and perhaps 
even nuclear physics. He is also expec¬ 
ted to possess personality characteris¬ 
tics of intelligence, interest, honesty, 
tact, perseverance, diligence, tolerance, 
sympathy and, for good measure, a fine 
sense of humour. In time, perhaps, the 
human species will evolve such crea¬ 
tures; meanwhile, camp directors who 
want a staff must choose ordinary 
human beings and accept the varieties 
of virtues and frailties inherent in 
them. 

As long as we have to use human 
beings for our counsellors, we must 
expect them to have both variety of 
training and variation of personality. 
But among the many possible assets 
the camp counsellor may have, it seems 
to me that he must have two: ability 
to camp and ability to counsel. 

To camp means to live simply in 
the outdoors and to enjoy it. For many 
city dwellers this is not easy. One has 
to be clever to live simply. And one has 
to know, understand and love the out¬ 
door world to be comfortable in it. 

The counsellor should therefore 
possess the skills for outdoor living 
which his particular camp situation re¬ 
quires. Camps themselves vary from 
the summer hotel to the barracks, from 
centralized regimentation to decen¬ 
tralized primitive living,from the school 
to the holiday, from the expensive to 



the free; some being situated in the 
lake country, others in the mountains 
or fields. One is reminded of the four- 
year-old who, seeing a St. Bernard, 
asked his mother; “What’s that?” 
“That’s a dog, dear; you know what a 
dog is.” “Yes”, he replied, “but some 
dogs look like dogs.” So some camps 
look like camps, but within the species 
there is as much variety to be found as 
amongst different breeds of dogs. 

It is difficult, therefore, to say just 
what skills the camp counsellor must 
possess, other than that he needs those 
which are appropriate to the type of 
camp. If he goes to a camp in the lake 
country, he should be able to manage 
boats, to feel secure in and on the 
water, to build fires, pitch tents, cook 
meals and to understand the weather. 
He should feel comfortable and know 
how to help his campers live comfort¬ 
ably in the out-of-doors life of his 
camp. Camping skills are important, 
not as ends, but means to satisfy out¬ 
door living. 

As well as skills for outdoor living, 
he should be interested in the outdoor 
world. This does not mean he should 
be a “nature study expert”, but rather, 
that he should be curious about the 
natural world. He need not send his 
campers to gather ten different plants 
and know their names, but he should 
feel the delight, which is contagious, in 
seeing plants grow, in watching the 
changing colour of the countryside, in 
appreciating the intricacies of tree 
growth and decay, in making effort to 
improve the natural resources of the 


camp site, in understanding the wider 
implications of conservation. He should 
know the value of time spent in doing 
nothing but watching. There are such 
good things to watch in the outdoors 
waves breaking on beaches, stars gradu¬ 
ally appearing in their constellations, 
northern lights, a sandpiper by the 
shore, skylines and the great white 
clouds on a blue summer day. There 
are good things, too, to hear—the loon’s 
cry, a whippoorwill, the wind in the 
tops of the pine trees, the very strange 
silence of a still night. 

So often at camp there is no time 
left to stop and smell wood smoke or 
touch the softness of sphagnum or a 
clover patch on a hot summer day. 
“Program” is often so full there is no 
time left for living. Yet from enjoy¬ 
ment and observation of the outdoor 
world, interest is aroused in “why 
things happen” and from such why’s, 
questions basic to science, philosophy, 
and even religion are aroused-ques- 
tions fundamental to the nature of the 
world and the human being’s place in 
it. The first quality, then, a counsellor 
must have is to be able to camp—to 
know how to live in the outdoors and 
to be interested in the natural world. 

The second quality a counsellor 
should have is the ability to counsel , to 
guide children’s development subtly 
yet surely. This depends primarily on 
the counsellor being interested in chil¬ 
dren-more interested in children than 
in himself. It is fairly easy to thrust 
one’s own interests on children, more 
difficult to become interested in theirs. 


18 



For children’s interests are definitely 
“childish”. And many counsellors, be¬ 
cause of their own insecurities, feel it 
is slightly undignified to be concerned 
with the trivial activities youngsters 
enjoy. 

A college undergraduate at camp 
may Find himself in charge of a group 
of Five-year-olds. Filled with his own 
enthusiasms, he resolves to get these 
guys toughened up into athletes and 
turned into miniature replicas of him¬ 
self. So he herds them down to boat 
practice, boxing, or takes them on en¬ 
durance hikes. Through the use of 
badges, prizes, marks or the persuasion 
of his own dynamic personality, he in¬ 
culcates “interests”, but they are his 
interests. 

It is a much more difficult task to 
be interested in the interests of his 
campers. The young adult seems to 
forget what it was like to be a child. 
Later, one again remembers. So if the 
counsellor cannot recall what it felt 
like at Five to jump into fresh hay in a 
nearby farm Field, or build a sand castle 
with a moat around it, or swing from 
trees, his best policy is to sit back and 
watch and listen. It is very difficult to 
recall the thrill of Fishing for shiners or 
wading up a stream to see where it goes, 
or putting on a play that has seven acts 
in five minutes and no conclusion. But 
these may be of vital importance to 
the young child. The counsellor may 
say: “If we just let those youngsters 
play around at these things, they aren’t 
learning anything.” Aren’t they? Per¬ 
haps they are learning to enjoy life and 
to discover the possibilities of express¬ 
ing interest in happy, constructive 
activity. Indeed, it is a travesty of adult 
modern life, we are so busy with rec¬ 
reation we have no time for play. We 


take so long being educated, we never 
get around to living. 

If the counsellor has forgotten what 
children like to do, he may also have 
forgotten what it feels like to be very 
young. To a child the camp dining 
room may feel terrifyingly large. 
Strange night sounds of owls and loons 
or thunder may make him afraid; 
being away from home for the First 
time may cause loneliness to the extent 
that he is literally sick. Fears of some 
children are extremely real. One of 
the strange beliefs of our society is that 
it is wrong to be afraid. A counsellor 
who ridicules or condemns a child’s 
fears may succeed only in having the 
child repress, rather than express them, 
and such repression is the source of 
many later mental health evils. If the 
counsellor wants to be a counsellor , he 
must help the child accept the feeling 
of being afraid as something everyone 
experiences and help him understand 
it. For example, the loon that made the 
terrifying sounds at night may be ob¬ 
served on the sunlit blue lake the next 
day, so the camper gets to know and 
be interested in him. 

It is, of course, essential that no 
needless fears be engendered in the 
youngster. He need not be forced to 
swim in deep water right away; he may 
enjoy wading around the beach and 
playing with toy boats. Supernatural 
fears from spooky stories and myths 
about malicious ghosts have no place 
in the young camper’s life, nor have 
unnecessary fears of night raids or 
hazing. There are enough things to be 
afraid of in the civilized, atomic world, 
that there is no need to produce 
artificial terrors. 

Finally, if the counsellor is really 
concerned with the campers’ develop¬ 


ment, he must remember that young 
children require a great deal of time 
and a great deal of guidance in dealing 
with the “daily round and common 
task”. The college student may think 
it a little dull and undigniFied to super¬ 
vise the camper washing his hands and 
face (and neck occasionally), to plan 
time for him to go to the toilet, to help 
him be interested in keeping his cabin 
reasonably tidy, eating his meals quietly 
and adequately, remembering that but¬ 
tons have to be sewn on and shorts 
patched, sending clothes to the laundry; 
these are all part of the routines of 
living which the camper is not ready 
to assume all by himself, but which he 
is ready to learn. Too often camp pro¬ 
grams are so extremely busy that little 
time is allotted for these daily tasks, 
but as soon as these are forgotten, the 
camper’s life and the camp’s life be¬ 
come a drastic) muddle. To counsel 
wisely must include helping the young¬ 
ster to develop skill and interest in 
necessary routines and to take time 
and thought to work out plans by 
which this can be achieved. To coun¬ 
sel, then, means that the life, interests 
and feelings of youngsters are the 
counsellor’s primary concern, for only 
with an understanding of these can his 
guidance be developed effectively. 

A camp counsellor should be a 
camp counsellor. He should have “a 
sense of at-homeness in the natural 
world and the arts of outdoor living”, 
and he should be able to counsel:- 
guide development by understanding 
the child’s level of maturity, interest 
and skill. With these qualities he will 
be an invaluable asset to any camp 
staff and a great surprise and satis¬ 
faction to himself. 


tyef 'Ztcai tye! 

We need your assistance — 

We want to compile a songbook and make it 
available to all camps in Canada. You must have 
a popular camp song. Would you please send in to the 
magazine the words and list the tune of your camp 
song so that it can be shared across Canada. 

When you submit an article to the magazine, 
have some glossy, black and white snaps, 
accompany it. 





19 














Look for the 

Hidden 

Dimension 


John H. Wilkinson 

Director, Keswick Youth Camp 

Reflections of the past summer’s 
camping programme and the effect it 
had on staff and campers alike is, in 
most cases, an enjoyable and encourag¬ 
ing experience for a camp director. 

Following the conclusion of our 
camping programme last fall, I took a 
few weeks vacation and travelled across 
Canada, enjoying its beauty and soli¬ 
tude to relax and unwind from the 
summer. 

The more I reflected on camp, the 
more I began to realize the necessity of 
evaluating our programmes and really 
searching out all avenues of our camp¬ 
ing culture to see if we really are com¬ 
municating with kids effectively. Too 
often we develop programmes in the 
light of our own culture (camp admini¬ 
strators). We feel they are exciting and 
worthwhile to the campers who come 
to us, without really considering their 
cultural background. 

Each of us has a sense of space 
which is a synthesis of many sensory 
inputs: visual, auditory, kinesthetic, 
olfactory and thermal. Not only does 
each of these constitute a complex 
system, but each is moulded and 
patterned by culture. Hence, there is 
no alternative but to accept the fact 
that people reared in different cultures 
live in different sensory worlds. 

As I think back, this really came to 
light, when one evening I asked my 
head cook where the cheese was loca¬ 
ted and she replied “in the cooler, on 
the second shelf’. I looked for five 
minutes but to no avail. 1 then had to 
admit to her that upon scanning the 
shelf, I could not perceive any cheese. 
She led me back to the cooler and 
there, with a wondering look, showed 
me the cheese on the second shelf. 
She and I simply had learned to use 
our eyes in very different ways. Evi¬ 
dently, we inhabited very different 
visual worlds. 


It was with this in mind that I 
began to wonder just how differently 
the campers sensed the camp culture 
that my staff and I were diligently 
trying to develop. How many times 
were we misinterpreting a camper’s 
behaviour because of our own particu¬ 
lar cultural orientation. 

When I returned from holidays I 
did some research and found that the 
patterning of perceptual worlds is a 
function, not only of culture, but of 
relationships, activities and emotions. 
Therefore, people from different cul¬ 
tures, when interpreting each other’s 
behaviour, often misinterpret the 
relationships, the activities, or the 
emotions. This leads to alienation in 
encounters or distorted communica¬ 
tions. 

In the briefest possible sense, the 
message of this paper is realizing that 
no matter how hard we try, it is im¬ 
possible to divest ourselves of our own 
culture, for it has penetrated to the 
roots of our nervous system and deter¬ 
mines how we perceive the world. 
Most cultural learning lies hidden and 
cultural behaviour is outside voluntary 
control. Even when small fragments of 
culture are elevated to awareness, they 
are difficult to change, not only be¬ 
cause they are so personally experi¬ 
enced, but because people cannot act 
or interact in any meaningful way, 
except through the medium of culture. 
So we must begin to question our basic 
assumptions concerning the relation¬ 
ship of our campers to their environ¬ 
ment, as well as to their relationship 
with each other — a concept that most 
camps do not explore. 

We must realize that while signifi¬ 
cant portions of the different cultures 
of our land are shared, there are also 
many points wherein they clash and 
we should be aware of these conflicts, 
if we, as camp leaders, are to communi¬ 
cate clearly and relate effectively to 
our campers as well as to each other. 

The more I view this concept of 
man’s relationship to this environment, 
the more apparent it becomes that we 
Canadians and Americans apparently 
direct our attention more towards 
content than structure and form, and 
thus the importance of culture is often 
minimized. We tend to overlook the 
influence of the form of a building on 



Courtesy of Keswick Youth Camp 


the people in it, or the results of 
overcrowding on the Canadian Indian, 
the consequences of having one’s senses 
conditioned by negro culture while 
trying to cope with “white” educa¬ 
tional materials, or the result of over¬ 
lapping personal distances, or dif¬ 
ferences in the handling of time. 

In light of the camp situation, are 
we overlooking the influences of the 
forms of our cabin, tent, chalet, dorm, 
dining hall, chapel, and other structures 
on the behaviour of the people in 
them? Are we overlooking the results 
of overcrowding our living quarters at 
camp with regard to specific cultures? 
In some cultures, it’s acceptable to 
stare, to be “pushy”, to crowd close 
to each other, to breathe heavily on 
another person, to have privacy in a 
public place, but in others all these 
are considered ill-mannered. One could 
go on and on making comparisons, but 
perhaps the above is enough to catch 
a glimpse of the fact that each child 
when he comes to camp brings with 
him his own specific cultural back¬ 
ground. We, as staff, must be prepared 
to accept and view this child indivi¬ 
dually realizing that the cultural 
dimension of his personality, most of 
which is hidden from sight, is a most 
important facet to grasp and to acquire, 
if we are to understand and effec¬ 
tively communicate with him. 

The discovery of self on the level 
of culture is no doubt more demanding 
than it is on the individual level. The 
difficulty of this task, however, should 
not cause us to slight its importance, 
but rather to search out and learn more 
about the interrelationship of man and 
his environment. ▲ 


20 








An adventure in 
eating! 

TRY OUR RANGE OF 

freeze dried meats 
freeze dried fruits 
freeze dried vegetables 
freeze dried main dishes etc. 

new instant dinners 

FREEZE-DRY FOODS LIMITED 

> 

579 Speers Road 
Oakville, Ontario, Canada 
(416) 844-1471 (416)925-1014 


TAKE IT 
FOR GRANTED. 

GIBBONS MAKES FINE FOODS- 

GIBBONS FOODS LIMITED 

49 ADVANCE ROAD TELEPHONE 239-1421 

TORONTO 18, CANADA 



Ot* Tout 



t* SufrVUMAt 


An authoritative discussion on Staff Supervision in 
Summer Camps 

Endorsed by The Ontario Camping Association 
Order now — $1.25 per copy — postpaid 


— — — — — — — CLIP AND MAIL — — — — — — — 

Ontario Camping Association 
102 Eglinton Ave. E., Toronto, Ont. M4P 1E1 

Please send me_copies of “It’s Wise to Supervise” 

at $1.25 per copy. 


I am enclosing cheque/money order for $ 
Name_ 


Address 


Post Office 


Postal 
_ Code 


. -■ • 











OUR "VANGUARD" STYLE 
With Draining and Stacking Features 


ORDER NOW FOR BETTER 
ASSORTMENT 

WILL HOLD FOR CAMP OPENING 
LIMITED SUPPLY 

Pre-Camptime Offer of 
Substandards at Generous 
Discounts 

Items not Illustrated: 

• Vegetable Bowl 

• Platter 

• Pitcher 

• Tumbler 

• Creamer and Sugar 

• Salad Servers 

• Jam or Sugar Pot 

• Salt and Peppers 

• Soup Plate 
e Butter Dish and 

Cover 

• Gravy Boat 

Colours: Yellow, 
Green, Coral, Blue 

375 Danforth Road, 
Scarborough, Ont. 

698-2545 







For the cleanest of 
camping, call for 
McKague. 

Your McKague man has it all—a complete range of products 
to assure you the cleanest camping conditions possible. 

From the McKemco family of fine cleaning supplies (the biggest 
in the business) he can provide you with chemicals and 
compounds for every campsite kitchen, sanitation and 
laundry purpose. 

From leading manufacturers he can supply you with the finest 
of laundry machinery equipment. 

And if your camp has a swimming pool, McKague has the 
ways to clean it and to keep it clean, with chemicals for filtration, 
chlorination, algae and alkalinity control, flocculation 
and coagulation. 

So for cleaner camping, be sure to contact your McKague 
representative soon. You'll be glad all season that you did. 



Over a Quarter of a Century of Service with Sales 

100 MIDWEST ROAD, SCARBOROUGH, ONTARIO 
and McKAGUE CHEMICALS (EASTERN) LTD. 

421 COURTEMANCHE AVENUE, MONTREAL EAST, QUEBEC 



7104 






You 


and 



Your 


Kitchen 

Some common-sense ways and means of cutting and 
controlling food costs. 

by R.M. Semple 
Director of Dietetics, 
Humber Memorial Hospital, 
Weston, Ontario 


In today’s economy the cost of 
operating camps has soared to the point 
that increases must be passed on to 
parents. Particularly is this so in rela¬ 
tion to food costs; and when a camp¬ 
er’s rating of his camp depends on the 
food he eats, meals have to be the best. 

One of the major problems in camp 
food service is the total disregard for 
the dollar value. Please note: I did not 
say the value of the dollar but the 
dollar value. Directors spend hours and 
money fixing the grounds, repairing 
cabins and wash-houses, painting, clean¬ 
ing and repairing the waterfront, and 
other necessary details. But, if I were 
to ask you the actual food cost per 
camper per day, doubtless no one 
would know. Raccoons may eat a lot 
of plywood but waste in your kitchen 
can eat up a lot of profit. I am certain 
that, at this time of year, you are con¬ 
cerned with the work that lies ahead in 
preparing for camp opening. 

Winter, as well as animals, have 
taken a toll but have you given any 
thought to the damage done to food 
stored because of over-stocking? It is 
my belief that if you, as proprietors of 
camps, reviewed a few basics in food 
management, you could reduce the 
cost of operating your food service by 
half your present expenditure in both 
food and wages. 

Previously I mentioned the wastage 
of food items and storage. Now, let’s 
look at some kitchen problems and 
how to solve them. 

First and foremost, recipes should 
be standardized to your operation. 
They should be supervised so that they 
are followed to the last pinch of salt. 
This is part of your operation that can 
be arranged in the winter months. 

Plan your menus around food of 
good quality. It might be wise to avoid 


the use of almost all spices except salt 
and a little pepper. Good, plain cook¬ 
ing is essential. 

Consider an effective use of left¬ 
overs. Some can be used during snack 
periods if presented properly. A good 
cook knows how to use them in stews, 
casseroles; also in jellies, fruit salads 
and other desserts. 

Eliminate fancy foods, fresh fruit 
and juices for snack. 

You would be wise to consider one 
snack at bed-time only. Forget a tuck 
shop and sell from the kitchen. Choose 
items the campers will eat during 
breaks in the activities of the day. 

Get into the kitchen and, with your 
cook, check the garbage. It is clean. 
You served it to your campers, so 
empty one can into another, once in a 
while, and see what is being thrown 
out. 

Keep all non-kitchen staff out of 
the kitchen. This is not a short order 
restaurant for your staff. Allow no 
one to take food from the dining hall 
to their cabins. 

Have your staff nurse look into the 
sanitation conditions of your kitchen 
every day. Make it one of her definite 
responsibilities. 

Use your staff effectively. Most 
camps are over-staffed and over-paid. 
If you hire students on an ego trip, 
that’s all you will get. 

Look at the possibility of hiring 
some of your campers to do some of 
the kitchen duties, e.g., floors and 
dishes. You could pay them at student 
rates or make allowances on the price 
of the vacation. Have them clean the 
beach and do minor repairs and paint¬ 
ing as well. 

I am fully aware of the problems of 
transportation but, whenever possible, 
buy or rent your own equipment. Do 


not borrow. The price of borrowing 
has to reflect in your purchase price. 
This cost is being passed back to you. 
Other areas of thought could be co¬ 
operative buying of food and equip¬ 
ment, the use of disposals, and the 
hiring of catered service. Caterers now 
have moved into the camping field and 
most of them do a good job because of 
their desire to compete, and their pride 
in the industry. 

It is my feeling that, as camp opera¬ 
tors, you should be your own worst 
critics. Start asking yourselves a lot of 
questions and be honest with your 
answers. If not, you are only hurting 
yourself. 

1. Are we doing all we can to serve the 
general public? 

2. Do we really care what the campers 
say when they leave camp? 

3. Are we taking the wasted food and 
man hours into consideration, and 
what is it costing us? 

4. Is my hiring a shot gun affair? Do I 
hire babies or people to do a job? 
Do I tend to hire egotists and un¬ 
skilled persons, or do I look for 
skilled people to lead, direct and 
train? 

5. Are my cooks well trained and 
qualified and, most of all, honest? 
Will they follow instructions rather 
than try to be an artist? 

6. Are my purchasing techniques con¬ 
ducive to good service or do I do my 
purchasing from a sense of need, a 
smooth-talking salesman, or the one 
who entertains best? Do I buy 
according to my menus? Do I shop 
comparatively? 

Look at your bank balance. Does it 
react formally to your answers? You 
could be losing a lot of money need¬ 
lessly. 


23 




GUMPERT'S FOR 73 


SPORTS mtPMBHT 


R.T.U. Puddings 

R.T.U. Pie Fillings 

R.T.U. Vienna 

R.T.U. Pizza Sauce 

Pizza Crust Mix 

R.T.U. Chicken Gravy 

R.T.U. Beef Gravy 

Sloppy Joe Mix 

R.T.U. Fruit Fillings 

Trip Lite Cheese Omelet Mix 

Trip Lite Chicken a la King 

Trip Lite Chicken Noodle Dinner 

$. GUMPERT CO. OF 
CANADA LTD. 

31 Brock Avo., Toronto 3, Ont. 

531-5758 




CAM? 

71 ME 

is time for 

PRINTED NAME TAPES 


ALL CAMPER'S CLOTHING AND 
BELONGINGS 

should be marked for easy identification 
and to avoid loss. 

CAMP LINEN AND EQUIPMENT, TOO, 
should be marked to avoid confusion 
and loss. 

NAMES OR NUMBERS CAN BE 
SUPPLIED. 

Order CASH'S NAME TAPES from 
department stores and other dealers — 
or direct from 


(ftsfis) 


X 116 BELLEVILLE, ONT. 

PRINTED NAME PRICES 

6 doz. $2.30 9 doz. $2.60 

12 doz. $2.80 24 doz. $3.95 

No C.O.D. 's. Please mail cheque or 
money order. 

(Ontario Residents add 5% retail safes tax) 


We specialize in Crests, Crested Shirts, 
Jackets etc., specially designed for your 
camp requirements. 


We carry complete inventory 

Trampolines, Volleyball, Softball, 
Basketball, Indoor and Outdoor 
Games, Life Saving Equipment, 
Shuffleboard, Tetherball, Archery, 
Flag Football, First Aid Kits a* 
wholesale prices. 


JACK WATSON 

SPORTS, INC. 

30 Mobile Dr., Toronto 16 


Phone 757-2844 free Catalogue 


MUSKOKA LAUNDRY & DRY CLEANERS LTD. 

LAUNDRY SERVICE FOR CHILDREN'S SUMMER CAMPS 
ESTABLISHED SINCE 1955 

75 WELLINGTON STREET, BRACEBRIDGE, ONTARIO 

645-2229 











CHESTNUT CANOE CO. LTD. 

FREDERICTON, N.B. 


OVER 70 YEARS OF SERVICE TO CANADIAN CAMPERS 


WE HAVE A CANOE FOR EVERY PURPOSE 

Over 45 Models to choose from. 


Write to the Chestnut Canoe Co. for Free Literature and Prices 












R.ICHIL.DACA 

Mr. and Mrs. W. J, Babcock 
193 Richmon 1 St.. 

Richmond dill. On . 



Dispose of camp food 
service problems with 

royal Chinet 

disposable plates and bowls 

Strong, attractive Royal CHINET food service products help you ... 

• DISPOSE OF DISHWASHING COSTS 

Cut the expense of installing, maintaining and manning equipment 
that is used only a few months of the year. 

• DISPOSE OF BREAKAGE 

Save yourself the trouble and expense of buying matching replace¬ 
ments for pieces that crack, chip and shatter. 

• DISPOSE OF FOOD WASTE 

You get exact portion control with Royal CHINET’s wide range of 
sizes in regular and compartmented designs. 

• DISPOSE OF GERM COLLECTORS 

Royal CHINET products are sterilized when manufactured and 
packaged. And there’s never a germ-collecting chip, crack or 
poorly washed dish. 

• DISPOSE OF IRRITATING NOISE 

Disposable service is silent service. Meals are relaxed \sr->out the 
clatter and crash of china or metal. 

ENVIRONMENTAL ADVANTAGES, TOC 


All good campers want to protect the environment. Royal CHINET prod¬ 
ucts are manufactured from a renewable resource. What’s more, they’re 
biodegradable . . . molded of natural wood fibres that burn readily with 
little smoke. Even if discarded out-of-doors, Royal CHINET quickly de¬ 
composes in the earth. 

Get the full particulars now. Mail this coupon today. 

CANADIAN KEYES FIBRE COMPANY LTD. 
HANTSPORT, NOVA SCOTIA 

Please provide me with details of the variety and costs of Royal 
CHINET food service products. 

NAME_ 



COMPANY or CAMP 
ADDRESS 



































