CKIDIIIICIMPINB 



SUMMER 1969 






















Manufacturers 

of 

the famous 

Quickset 

Quality 

Food Products 

for Camps 

anywhere 

in Canada 

‘Tripping at Your Camp?’ 

USE 

camp- me 

Jelly Powders 
Pudding Powders 
Pie Fillings 

Instant Puddings 
Jiffy Whip 

Cake Mixes 

Cheese Cake Mix 
Table Syrup 

Fruit Beverages 

Hot Chocolate 
Flavorings 

Soup Bases 
Marmalades 

Jams 

Fruit Pie Fillings 
Camp-Rite 

Economical, ready-to-go food units 
packed in 4 man water - proof 
packages. Just add water, cook, 
and your meal is ready. 

You will be agreeably surprised at 
the prices! 

Ask the “Gibbons Man” for more 
information on Camp-Rite or write 
to us direct. 


GIBBONS FOODS LTD. 


49 ADVANCE ROAD 

TELEPHONE 239-1421 


TORONTO 18, CANADA 







CANADIAN CAMPING 


Vol. 21 SUMMER, 1969 No. 4 

CONTENTS 

Where the Action Is. __;_*______ _ 88 

The Counsellor’s Apprentice .~.. «P* G. Gilbert, T. Fry 90 

Evening and Sunday Afternoon Programmes ... —— — ,.Ray Ward 92 

Cooking Contest, Group Games _ . .Lynne Brooks’, Bob Slingerland 94 

Closing Comments . . . .. . .. ...... . John Latimer 96 

Discipline . . . .... . .. .. . M. C. MacCulloch 100 

Day Camp Overmghta .. . .... . . -...Tony Lea 106 

Why Archives? . . . . . . 5 .. . .. k „.J, D. P. Martin 112 


CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

Box 2773, Station “D”, Ottawa 4, Ont. 

Honorary President —Miss Mary S. Edgar 

President —!The Rev. David Hartry, Box 1622, Halifax, N.S. 

Executive Secretary — Barry Bryant, Box 2773, Station “D”, Ottawa 4, Ont. 

1st Vice-President —Mrs. Betty Campbell, 50 Dutch Village Rd., Halifax, N.S. 

2nd Vice-President —Tom Creighton, c/o Box 1165, Halifax, N.S. 

Treasurer —-Robert Gregory, c/o Bank of Montreal, Fairview, Halifax, N.S. 

Secretary —Mrs. Gregory Robert, c/o 5770 Tower Terrace, Halifax, N.S. 

Publisher— Mrs. G. W. Flynn 75 Crescent Road, Apt. 8, Toronto 5, Ontario. 

Editorial Committer; Don Groff, Chairman, Joyce Bertram, Eanswythe Flynn, 

Margaret Govan, Jean Darrach, Jocelyn Palm, John Latimer, Ann Prewitt, 
Bruno Morawetz, Jack Pearse, Kirk Wipper, Mary L. Northway. 

PAST PRESIDENTS 

♦Taylor Statten, Toronto; *Dais L. Gass, Montreal; Anne I. Vail, Montreal; W. E. (Ted) 
Yard, Toronto; Irwin Haladner, Toronto; F. M. VanWagner, Montreal; Kenneth H. 
Murray, Montreal; Don Smith, Edmonton; Mrs. May Brown, Vancouver; Douglas McEwcn, 
Winnipeg. 


PROVINCIAL OFFICES 

B.C. Camping Association—616 E. Cordova St., Vancouver 4, B.C. 

Alberta Camping Association—2402 27th St. S.W., Calgary 4, Alberta 
Northern Alberta Branch—10032 - 103rd St., Edmonton 15, Alberta. 

Saskatchewan Camping Association- 87 CaldWcll Rd., Regina, Sask. 

Manitoba Camping Association—757 Chalmers Ave. E., Winnipeg 5, Manitoba. 

Eastern Ontario Camping Conference—2131 Neepawa Avenue, Ottawa 13, Ontario. 
Ontario Camping Association—501 Yonge Street, Suite 13, Toronto 200, Ontario. 
Quebec Camping Association—2233 Belgrave Ave., Montreal 261, Quebec. 

Nova Scotia Camping Association—P.O. Box 1622, Halifax, N.S. 

Newfoundland & Labrador Camping Association—12 Springdale St., St. John’s, Nfld. 

“CANADIAN CAMPING’* IS PUBLISHED FOUR TIMES A YEAR BY TOWN TALK PUBLICATIONS. 
SUBSCRIPTION RATES: MEMBERSHIP IN THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION INCLUDES “CANADIAN 
CAMPING**; TO NON-MEMBERS. 85 CENTS PER COPY; $3.00 PER YEAR*, $8.00 PER THREE YEARS. 
AUTHORIZED AS SECOND CLASS MAIL. POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT. OTTAWA, ONT., AND FOR PAYMENT 
OF POSTAGE IN CASH. 


Toronto, Canada , Summer 1969 


87 












THE NEW 



PRESIDENT 


WHERE 

THE ACTION 

is... 

CANADAIN CAMPING 

ASSOCIATION 

1969-1970 

We give a warm welcome and heart¬ 
iest congratulations to The Reverend 
David R, Hartry, past President of the 
Nova Scotia Camping Association, who 
has been elected President of the Cana¬ 
dian Camping Association for the next 
two-year period. He follows Mr. Doug. 


McEwen of Winnipeg, immediate past 
president of CCA. 

Dave, a delightful raconteur, is 
known all across Canada for his hilar¬ 
ious tales of camping . * . “and other 
incidents”. We have laughed and joked 
with him and enjoyed every minute. 
But when he tells us of the Hippies- 
gone-wrong, of the Run-aways, the so- 
young no-goods who frequent his Ca¬ 
thedral area in downtown Halifax, we 
see a deeper side to this min who is 
not only concerned but who Does 
Something about the situation, who digs 
in and honestly works with these help¬ 
less strays. We know Dave, too, as the 
Editor of one of the best Camping 
Association Newsletters to cross our 
desk. We know of the giant contribution 
the NSC A hag made to camping in his 
province. The April 1967 issue of 
Canadian ^Camping, Among Ourselves, 
covers details of Dave’s life, background 
and work. 

So we wish you the best with many 
blessings, Dave, and hope you will see 
your dreams of CCA’s New Era 
develop and expand in your term of 
office. 

1969 ANNUAL MEETING 

Following a five-day Camp Directors’ 
Seminar which we hope to report in 
detail in a latter issue, many delegates 
stayed in Winnipeg for the CCA An¬ 
nual Meetting on Friday, February 
28th, at the International Inn. After 
discussions, resolutions, suggestions and 
subsequent voting, it became clear that 
several milestones had been passed this 
year. 

Through a giant from the Fitness 
and Amateur Sports Branch of the 
Department of National Health and 
Welfare, CCA is now able to maintain 
its own National Office in Ottawa, plus 
the services of an Executive Secretary 
in the person of Mr. Barry Bryant. The 
address is Box 2773, Station “D”, 
Ottawa, and the telephone number, 
(613) 236-7901. Extra Secretarial serv- 


88 


Canadian Camping 





ices will be available, when necessary, 
through the Downtown Branch, Ottawa 
YM-YWCA. 

News of another great event in the 
annals of Canadian Camping came 
with the announcement by Mr. Bob 
LazanLk and Father Lionel Perras that 
1’Association des Camps du Quebec, 
Inc., has now joined with the English 
Section to become a part of the Cana¬ 
dian Camping Association. Camping in 
Quebec will now have one voice repre¬ 
senting all camps in the province. Presi¬ 
dent of the French Section is M. Lionel 
Perras, p.s.s. 

Greetings and congratulations to the 
new Executive of CCA: President: The 
Reverend David R. Hartry; 1st Vice- 
President, Mrs. Betty Campbell; 2nd 
Vice-president, Mr. Tom Creighton; 


Treasurer, Mr. Robert Gregory; Sec¬ 
retary, Mrs. Gregory Robert, all of 
whom live in Halifax, Nova Scotia. 

We quote Mr. Doug McEwen, as he 
closed his report of CCA work during 
1968: 

“The past two years have been a 
busy and remarkable period in the 
C.C.A. As new officers take on respon¬ 
sibility there remains a significant chal¬ 
lenge to our organization to support 
and work together to achieve the aims 
of our Association, which in short, 
should be summarized as the better¬ 
ment of camping for young people of 
this and future generations. Much has 
been done and much remains to be 
done. A new age has begun if we mean 
to meet the needs of camping now and 
in the 1970’s.” 


BIENVENUE QUEBEC — SECTION FRANQAISE 

It was with great enthusiasm that the news of affiliation between the English 
and French Sections of the Quebec Camping Association was received at the 
Annual Meeting of the Canadian Camping Association in Winnipeg. Mr. Bob 
Lazanik made the presentation, and has kindly given us the announcement in 
French. We give it to our readers with our congratulations to ¥ Association des 
Camps du Quebec: 

Apres quelques six annees d’etudes, de discussions, devaluation et de 
recherches, le comit6 charge d’etudier la possibilite d’affiliation de la section 
fran 9 aise de la Q.C.A. a la G.C.A., est heureux de faire savoir que la question 
de cette affiliation est resolue. 

C’est en 1963, a l’asserablde annuelle de la C.C.A. tenue a Banff, qu’il fut 
question pour la lere fois de penser a une formule d’affiliation pratique et accep¬ 
table pour tous. 

L’A.C.Q. fondee en 1958 s’etait jointe a la Q.C.A. — appelee section anglaise 
—en 1961. Un Conseil Provincial forme de repr6sentants des deux sections 
coordonnait les activites des deux sections et representait les camps aupres du 
gouvernement du Quebec. L’affiliation de la section frangaise a la C.C.A.-C.C. 
place maintenant le Conseil Provincial au niveau national et marque une nouvelle 
etape pour la Q.C.-A-C.Q, Les camps du Quebec ont maintenant “une” voix les 
representant tous aupres de C.C.-A -C.C. et cette representation se fait pour le 
Conseil Provincial. 

Cette affiliation ouvre des horizons plus grands aux camps du Quebec et 
apporte a la G.C.-A-C.C. un potentiel accru de camps accr£dites. 

Des details techniques restent a r6gler, mais le grand pas est franchi. La 
C.C.-A-C.C. englobe maintenant les membres depression fran^aise et est fiere 
de ieur souhaiter la plus cordiale bienvenue. 

Avec ce rapport prend fin le travail du comite, lequel est maintenant “en 
choinage”. R. Lazanik 


Toronto , Canada , Summer 1969 


89 


STUDY GROUP REPORT 


The 

COUNSELLORS 

APPRENTICE 


by P. G. Gilbert, Camp Nominingue 
Tony Fry, Camp Pinecrest 


For the past two years an informal group representing eleven camps in 
Ontario and Quebec has been meeting regularly to study the training of apprentice 
counsellors, usually known as CITs. Our discussions have ranged from the camp’s 
philosophy and objectives, through the status and place of the CIT in camp, 
to details of the training programme. As the study progressed all the camps 
re-evaluated their approach to CITs and, to a greater or lesser extent, revamped 
their programmes. In assessing the results after the summer of 1968, the camps 
were pleased with the changes they had made, and some are preparing further 
modifications for the coming summer. The study itself is by no means complete, 
and we are now exploring the possibility of doing serious research on the CIT. 
Anyone who wishes can do this sort of thing. Just get five or six people together, 
and start talking. Our work so far has produced concrete results in three areas: 

1. The objectives. 

2. The training design. 

3. The training programme. 

The first is presented here. We hope the others will follow later. 

1. The Objectives. 

Defining a CIT is well nigh impossible. This person ranges in age from 
fourteen to eighteen, in status from special camper to full staff, in financial terms 
from full fee to token salary. The training course may be as short as ten days, 
or extend over three seasons, varying from mostly theory in a quasi-school 
situation to mostly practical experience while on the job. Each camp’s individual 
philosophy, objectives and programme determine its approach toward the CIT, 
making each one different from all others. However, the CIT does have the 
definitive qualities of personality, motivation and desirability. He wants to be a 
counsellor, and the camp wants him. He goes to camp as an apprentice, a 
counsellor’s apprentice. 

Normally, the camp’s prime objective would be to develop competent staff 
for future years. Other aims would be to maintain continunity of staff, to provide 
good training in leadership, responsibility and camping skills, to perpetuate the 
camp philosophy, or U provide a goal that will encourage older campers to return. 
The CIT usually wants to have fun, to continue camping, to develop teaching 
and counselling skill, to have an opportunity for responsibility and leadership and 
to have more freedom and higher status than a camper but not necessarily in 
that order. Inability to obtain summer employment and parental pressure to get 
out of the city are often additional motivating factors. The common ground of 
their objectives lies in the camp director’s desire to develop good counsellors and 


90 


Canadian Camping 




the CITs desire to be one. The content and methods of the programme (what 
the CITs do and learn, and how they are used in and by the camp) are the 
means for both camp and CIT to achieve their goals. 

To indicate the possible scope of training programmes for CITs, here is a 
compilation of all content material assembled from five camps participating 
in the study: 

Camp regulations and policies Organization and conduct of a 


CIT duties and privileges 
What the camp expects of the CIT 
What the CIT can expect of the 
camp 

The camp program as offered to 
campers, CITs and staff. 
Public relations with the surround¬ 
ing community 
Record keeping 
Required residing. 

B: Formal skill sessions: 

All skills taught at the camp 
Devotions 

Handling equipment 
Safety and first aid 
All phases of tripping, including 
trip crafts 

Section and cabin programme 
planning. 

C: Theory sessions: 

Philosophy of camping 
Aims and objectives of camping 
The camp’s history, philosophy, 
aims and objectives 
Counselling and business adminis¬ 
tration 

Health and sanitation 
Teaching methods 
Philosophy of an activity 


canoe trip 
The camper 
Age characteristics 
Growth and development 
Discipline and self-discipline 
Empathy, sympathy, understanding 
Motivation 
Homesickness 
Individual needs 

Behaviour patterns and problems 
How groups work 
The counsellor as a parent substi¬ 
tute 

Achievement and recognition 
Winning respect 
Interest in others 
How to develop responsibility 
Personal development, a free discus¬ 
sion of morality, religion, drugs, 
sex, alcohol, nicotine, etc. 
Discussion of the problems and dif¬ 
ficulties faced by the CIT 

D: Apprentice training: 

Assist in instructing camp skills 
Assist on canoe trips and cook-outs 
Life saving drill and patrol 
Responsibility for some evening pro¬ 
grammes 

page 114 please 



YOUR CAMPERS WILL ENJOY 


f SchneiderS 

v ijV S J 

ft FAMOUS FOR QUALITY 

< r«^r I 

MEAT PRODUCTS 


ALSO 

EGGS - BUTTER - CHEESE 


J. M. SCHNEIDER LIMITED 

KITCHENER, 

ONTARIO 519-745-7321 


Toronto, Canada, Summer 1969 


91 



PROGRAMME IOEAS 


EVENING AND SUNDAY 
AFTERNOON PROGRAMMES 


An article condensed from an address to the 
Ontario Camping Association f by Ray W. 
Ward, Camp Ponacka 


Successful camp programmes depend 
on the co-operation of everyone in 
camp. Counsellors should be sounding- 
boards for campers, and communica¬ 
tion links with the director. In a demo¬ 
cratically run camp, the counsellor 
shares in the planning — and the 
responsibility for successes and failures. 
Campers also love to help plan and 
carry out events. What better way to a 
successful evening or Sunday afternoon 
program than to find out the campers’ 
needs and satisfy them. 

Each counsellor should prepare a file 
of special programmes and all the varia¬ 
tions on each theme. Once at camp he 
has only to consult the file for an instant 
evening program or Sunday afternoon 
event. The following is a list of popular 
special programmes from Lewis C. 
Reimann’s The Successful Camp: 

Flotilla, evening dip, free boating, 
fishing, talent show, games, dramatics, 
ceremonials, song fest, story telling, 
international night, treasure hunt, 
movies. 

Initiations, snipe hunt, amateur 
night, counsellor hunt, cabin night, 
camper show, counsellor show, moon¬ 
light riding, free evening, campfire, 
vesper services, cook-out, talks. 

Resource people, quiz program, folk 
dancing, carnivals, star gazing, scaven¬ 


ger hunt, record playing, readings, 
masquerade, dancing, holiday celebra¬ 
tion. 

Campcraft dinners, team sports, 
fashion show, camper wrestling or box¬ 
ing, counsellor wrestling or boxing, in¬ 
door track meet, nature show, craft 
show, guest night, concert, moonlight 
hike. 

To ensure variety and balance, it is 
a good idea to show the selected eve¬ 
ning programmes tentatively on your 
monthly timetable. On the weekly plan 
that is laid out every Sunday the final 
selections can be filled in, along with 
the alternatives that will be suitable in 
case of a change in the weather or the 
development of an emergency. Final 
preparations, the location of equipment, 
the assigning of tasks to personnel, and 
the outlining of the actual administra¬ 
tion can be carried out on the final day. 

Some programmes are best announc¬ 
ed with a publicity gimmick or special 
fanfare. For proper motivation and the 
greatest development of enthusiasm 
among the campers, publicity should be 
confined to the day of the program. 
In some cases it should even be left 
until the time of the evening meal. 
Through the enthusiasm and participa¬ 
tion of the counsellors, the event lives 
or dies. 

Evening programmes may be organ¬ 
ized and run by any group of counsel¬ 
lors, campers, or counsellors-in-training. 

Many of the special programmes in 
our list are also suitable for Sunday 
afternoon. Here is an additional list of 
events that lend themselves well to 
Sunday afternoon in camp: 

Regatta, gold rush, circus, trips, old 
settlers, parents’ day, horse show, rodeo, 
religious service, inter-camp meet. 


NORTH WEST CANVAS LIMITED 

Manufacturers of 

Trip and Incamp Tents. Flys, Packsacks, Tarps, Sleeping Bags, Etc. 
Made of Nylon, Sail Silk, Fabrine, Cotton, etc. 

Also Foam Mattresses and General Repairs. 

1356 REGINA STREET, NORTH BAY, ONTARIO TELEPHONE 474-2777 


92 


Canadian Camping 






Indian day, Gypsy day, pirates and 
Grant! Printing—Canadian Camping 
sailors, smugglers’ day, backwoodsmen, 
National days, frontier day, storybook 
day, space day. 

The special point about a Sunday 
afternoon event is that the programme 
can take up to three daylight hours. 
Quite elaborate programs involving a 
good deal of preparation can be car¬ 
ried out. 

The staff should be notified well in 
advance. Detailed briefing can be car¬ 
ried out on Friday or Saturday. Equip¬ 
ment and materials can be assembled 
well in advance and a schedule of 
duties posted. 

Selling the day to the campers makes 
the big difference. Publicity posters and 
annnouncements can be used and, if 
special motivation is needed, an inter¬ 
esting visitor, a skit, a formal challenge, 
or a glimpse of the event in miniature 
can be added to the publicity. If the 
campers are involved in the prepara¬ 
tions — making costumes, preparing 
makeup, designing props — the Sunday 
afternoon event will take on added 
meaning. 

At our camp the most successful 
special events have often been modi¬ 
fications of old events suggested by 
campers and counsellors. For example: 
War Canoe — when large war canoes 
are available to put the whole camp 
in boats, such games as “capture the 
Flag” and “Pioneers and Indians” 
can take place on the water and the 
campers experience a real adventure. 
The film the Great Race inspired one 
of our counsellors to suggest a marathon 
raft-building, floating and racing event 
that had a hilarious climax. 

Elaboration of hoaxes — of which we 
have many — has led to more fantastic 
situations than you can imagine. 

The key to planning successful special 
events can be put in a simple checklist 
— preparation, cooperation, timing, 
safety, cleanup, evaluation. 


Stock-Up-Now 



... with rods, reels, lures and 
accessories from Canada's 
best known line —at your 
AL&W Arlberg Fishing Tackle 
Headquarters! 

Allcock, Laight & Westwood 
Limited 

Bramalea, Ontario, 


HOUSE SPARROWS: Ragamuffins of 
the City by J. J. McCoy, illustrated by 
Jean Zallinger. The hardy little house 
sparrow, imported from England in the 
late 1860’s to fight insects, is described in 
detail — its habits and adaptation, its 
spread throughout America, and its ap¬ 
pearance in verse and story. Glossary, 
suggested reading, index. (Seabury) $4.25 

Order from your favorite bookstore 

G. R. WELCH COMPANY LIMITED 
Toronto 18 


Toronto, Canada, Summer 1969 


93 



PROGRAMME IDEAS 


Camp Cooking Contest 


by Lynne Brooks 

West End YWCA — Toronto 


Weary of the standard wieners-and- 
beans cookouts? Have trouble coaxing 
counsellors to try more original menus? 
Try a cooking competition for camper 
groups. 

The announcement can be made at 
the beginning of camp to leave plenty 
of time for planning the menus. Only a 
few groups should prepare their entries 
on the same day; all but the youngest 
groups should be encouraged to build 
fires. 

The published rules of the competi¬ 
tion may be something like the follow¬ 
ing: 

1. The campers must do all the 
planning and preparation, with 
only guidance from the counsellors. 
(Groups under seven years may 
need more! help from the coun¬ 
sellors.) 

2. The campers must collect and ar¬ 
range the fuel for the cooking fire* 
(Whether the campers or the coun¬ 
sellors are to handle the matches 
should be clearly stated.) 

3. The judges will base their decisions 
on several visits to each campsite 
beginning during the first prepara¬ 
tions and ending with taste tests. 

4. Points will be given for the team¬ 
work of the group, originality of the 
menu and its appropriateness for 
outdoor cooking, cleaning up and 
putting out fires. 

Here are some recipes that have turn¬ 
ed up in camp cooking competitions I 
have judged: 

Curried Pine Burgers: Minced beef 
patties are flavoured with curry powder 
and placed in buns with cheese and 


pineapple slices. The filled buns are 
wrapped individually in foil and baked. 

Hot Banana Split: Unpeeled bananas 
are slit lengthwise. Two or three marsh¬ 
mallows and a piece of chocolate are 
placed between the halves. Each bana¬ 
na sandwich is wrapped in foil and 
baked until the marshmallow and the 
chocolate melt over the banana. 

Chocolate - marshmallow Sandwich: 
Cut-up marshmallows are placed be¬ 
tween graham crackers, wrapped in foil 
and cooked. When they are slightly 
cooled, dip in a pot of melted chocolate. 

Instant Fruit Pies: Take two rather 
thick slices of white bread and a raw 
fruit. Cut the crusts from the bread. 
Peel and slice the fruit (if it needs it). 
Butter bread generously. Place fruit be¬ 
tween bread and put the sandwich in 
a metal press with a long handle. (Cin¬ 
namon and brown sugar could be add¬ 
ed to apple). When this is held over 
camp fire and baked, it turns out as a 
fruit pie. Luscious! 

Spaghetti served on pancakes were 
great favourites. 

Menus or recipes should not be too 
expensive. There are many interesting 
and simple suggestions in Helen Stew¬ 
art’s new book, Cookery for Kids, 
Kamps c n’ Kicks. 

The programme served many pur¬ 
poses in that it gave the counsellor a 
break from regular programming. It 
encouraged group activity and com¬ 
petition. It was a Special Day for 
campers. It made them think of meals 
other than the everlasting Wieners { n’ 
Beans. 


GROUP GAMES 


by Bob Slingerland , 

Section Director, Camp Kilcoo 


This ‘game’ deals with a programme 
which the Counsellor can use with his 
own intimate group. The game or the 
programme is played during the un¬ 
planned times of the day. The real 


94 


Canadian Camping 








worth of the Counsellor is his ability to 
show his resourcefulness when he finds 
that he can no longer depend upon the 
General Camp Programme. Too many 
of us are satisfied with such a pro¬ 
gramme and we feel that our campers 
should be as contented as we are. I 
will admit that campers enjoy the 
Camp Programme, but to them it is 
the programme that they create on their 
own with the help of their Counsellor 
which makes the summer an experience 
they will cherish. 

I might begin with the various times 
of the day when there is no real gen¬ 
eral camp programme planned. For 
example, the time between reveille and 
breakfast or perhaps the time between 
going to bed and going to sleep. During 
these pauses the Counsellor might take 
his Campers for an unplanned swim or 
he might make up a camp song to a 
hit tune. At night he might take his 
group down to the lake and create a 
discussion on any one of a hundred 
topics, or he might find a story which 
will be of current interest to his camp¬ 
ers. He might find time to make up 
skits to good jokes he has heard, or 
he might take his campers on a nature 
lore expedition. I remember one Coun¬ 
sellor who, after a general camp camp¬ 
fire, stayed on with his group and just 
talked to them about life and the 
world we live in. 

Quite often a cabin group gets a 
real kick out of attempting and suc¬ 
cessfully completing a project of some 
kind in camp. One such group in our 
camp attempted to build an outdoor 
aquarium terrarium. The project acted 
like a contagious disease within the 
whole section because within a short 
time other groups began working along 
with them. Some worked on signs, some 
began looking for forms of life for the 
project. 

Some Counsellors make nature trails 
with their campers. Some build such 

page 111 please 


CAMPING BOOKS 

A COMPLETE DISPLAY 

Visit - Phone - Write for Lists 
* * * * 

Ryerson Bookstore 

85 St. Clair Ave. E. 
Toronto 7, Ont. 

925-6597 925-5931 

* * * * 

HOURS: 

Mon. - Wed. 9ffl a.m. - 5:30 p.m. 
Thurs., Fri . 9.-00 a.m. - 9:00 p.m. 
Sat. 9.-00 a.m. 5.-00 p.m. 


For All Marine 
Camping Needs ... 

SKIS - LIFEJACKETS 
ROPE, SAILS, FLAGS 
NAUTICAL CLOTHING 
FOUL WEATHER GEAR 
DECK SHOES 
SAILBOAT HARDWARE 
POWER BOAT HARDWARE 

. . . Write for our 

complete ’69 catalogue 



MARINE DISTRIBUTORS 

LIMITED 

13€ Adelaide St. East «t Jarrii 
TORONTO, CANADA 

362-8586 


Toronfo, Canada , Summer 1969 


95 





Closing 

Comments 

for 

1969 


The closing address given by 
John Latimer, President, Ontario 
Camping Association, at the 
Camping Conference 
Banquet, Toronto, 

March 8, 1969 


The President of O.C.A. is in a very 
fortunate position, for at our Con¬ 
ference he has the opportunity to say 
the first words and the last. When I 
spoke at the opening, I tried to present 
a few of my views as to the challenges 
which would be facing us during the 
following days! Many on our Confer¬ 
ence Committee had disagreed as to the 
format of this year’s Conference, but 
from some very lively meetings we were 
able to establish our goals and purposes 
for the 1969 Conference. We, hopefully, 
have been able to offer to everyone an 
opportunity to share some deeper ex¬ 
periences in the fields of leadership, 
administration, and the camper. In 
addition we have been able to join in 
sessions which are most suitably labelled 
“the bread and butter” sessions. It is 
our hope that we have been able to 
provide for you something which will 
improve your camps this summer. 

Every time I visit Niagara Falls, I 
must admit that while I stand at the 
brink of the gorge, and become hypno¬ 
tized by the terrifying force of the 
water, I think of my position as a Camp 
Director. I become caught in a type of 
momentum. Like the smooth water at 
the top of the Falls which for a while 
flows peacefully, and slowly, it soon, 
without any recourse, smashes into an 
uncontrollable dynamo of thunder, and 
I become terrified . . . terrified of the 


responsibility which has been given to 
me as a Camp Director. 

I have three small sons at home. I 
have no control over what the school 
system will do to them. I have little 
control over what will affect them on 
the streets or at the hockey arena. But 
I have a control when it comes to send¬ 
ing them to camp. What happens? 
I take my most cherished possessions, 
my own flesh and blood, and I give 
them to another person. I say to this 
person, here are my treasures. I love 
them so much. I want you to give them 
something which I can’t give them. I 
trust you. Yes, I trust you. Please let 
them come home safely. Please let them 
have some new windows opened for 
them. Please let them know more of 
themselves. Please let them, through 
new sets of hearts, see the excitement 
and the joy in living so they in turn 
someday, sometime, may have the abil¬ 
ity to share this with other young 
people. Please, be their friend! 

That’s a fantastic amount to expect 
of a Camp Director, but I’ll look for 
that type of person! And whether I can 
afford to send these boys to a small ten- 
day Agency Camp or a large expensive 
two-month camp has nothing to do 
with the fact that I want for my chil¬ 
dren something which will make their 
lives richer and fuller; and it all de¬ 
pends on the person I find in whom 
I can invest my trust. 


96 


Canadian Camping 








NEW INFORMATION, SERVICES, PRODUCTS 

FOR 

CAMP OPERATORS 


INFORMATION 

SERVICES 

—Information Releases — New Product Knowledge 
—Service Releases — Production Guidelines 
—New Menu Suggestions 
—New Quantity Recipes 
—Series of Staff Training Helps 

“Fundamentals of Good Food Service' 1 

FOOD SERVICE 
PRODUCTS 

—Bulk Baking Mixes 

(Cakes, Cookies, Muffins, Donuts, Sweet Goods) 

—Pancake Mixes 

(Regular, Just Add Water, Buttermilk, Buckwheat) 

—Deep Fry Batters 

(Fish, Chicken, Fritters, Chops) 

—Hot Cereals 

(Quick, Old Fashioned, Quick Wheatlets) 

—Cold Cereals 

(Cornflakes, Muffets, Puffed Wheat, Puffed Rice, Cap’n Crunch— 
Assorted Individuals) 

—Hard & Soft Wheat Flours 

(Quaker All Purpose Flour — Saxon Pastry Flour) 

—Burry Biscuits 

(Individually Wrapped — Bulk Packed) 

FURTHER 

DETAILS 

Just write or call the Toronto Office — Tel. 222-6568 

5385 Yonge St., 
Willowdale, Ont. 

We will be glad to supply any further Information desired on 
Service Helps, Product Knowledge and Delivery Services to your 
individual camp(s). 


Food Service Division 


Q 

QUAKER 


The 

Quaker Oats Company 
of Canada Limited 

Peterborough, Ontario 



Toronto, Canada, Summer 1969 


97 







And even more terrifying is the fact 
that there are about 200,000 young 
children who will be going to camps 
in our province this summer, True, 
some are sent to get them out of the 
home, but I venture to say that most 
Canadian parents who believe in the 
worth of a camping experience, send 
their children to camp because they 
love them, and because they care for 
them. 

When mine go to camp, they will 
only number three; a small number, 
but to me the most important things in 
my life. There are 200,000 other chil¬ 
dren who are hopefully the most im¬ 
portant possessions in the lives of 
mothers and fathers; and these mothers 
and fathers are giving these possessions 
to the people at this Conference. This 
is why I would compare the force here 
tonight, with the force of a Niagara. 
I pray to God that we truly appreciate 
how vulnerable we are, how important 
we arc, and how dynamic we are, be¬ 
cause if we don’t appreciate this fact, 
then camping can only be smothered. 

When my children go to camp, I 
give them to one man. He in turn gives 
them to a Section Director, who in turn 
gives them to a Counsellor. And if I 
can’t find a Director in whom I have 
the trust to find those who work with 
him in accepting this delegation of 
responsibility, then I’d prefer not to 
send my children to camp. 

I want to know that this man has 
searched high and low for the best pos¬ 
sible Section Directors; men who can 
work with him, and who share his 
dedication; not just men who are paid 
employees. I want to know that this 
man will look for the best young men 
in this Country to be the Counsellors, 
for it is the Counsellor who also must 
believe in the Camp and the Director 
and become so involved that he is 
capable of feeling what a child feels, 
capable of opening those new windows 
and capable of preventing atrophy of 


the thinking muscles. A Counsellor who 
has a sense of humour and is fun, a 
Counsellor who is fair, just, warm and 
sincere, and who himself is already 
well on his way in establishing strong, 
sincere values, that’s the kind of guy 
I want to lead my sonl I want a Coun¬ 
sellor who has emotion; who isn’t afraid 
to put his arm around a young boy, 
who isn’t afraid to shed a tear, and 
above all one who is willing to listen, 
and to extend to a child a hand in 
guidance, and not carry him over all 
the hurdles. 

Perhaps I was pessimistic when I 
spoke of camps being smothered. If 
you got that impression it wasn’t in¬ 
tended for I’m convinced that Camping 
is going to grow in leaps and bounds. 
I’m convinced of this because of the 
people I’ve met here during the last 
three days. If the ideas, the thoughts, 
the emotions and the feelings of the 
people who have been here at the Inn 
could be harnessed, then 200,000 young 
human beings have ahead of them a 
most exciting, wonderful experience. 
For three days we have seen the wisdom 
of age, beautifully combined with the 
energy and enthusiasm of youth; and 
what a powerful combination! What 
magnificent combination! 

And so Ladies and Gentlemen, we 
close this Conference and leave through 
those doors. Are they the same doors 
wherein we came? If not , then this 
Conference has been successful. 

I say good-luck to all of us, with the 
hope that every bright eyed youngster, 
every sad, lonely youngster, every self- 
assured, confident youngster, every 
handicapped youngster who is placed in 
our hands this summer will return to 
his ghetto, or his large home, a better 
person, a more understanding person, 
a more sympathetic person, and above 
all a person who knows what it’s like 
to love and be loved. 

Thank you and good luck. 

- • 


98 


Canadian Camping 


JOSEPHINE EDITH HARSHAW 

Former Editor of Canadian Camping Magazine 
It is with deep regret that we annnounce the passing of Mrs. Alfred E. 
Harshaw who has become so well known to so many members of the 
Canadian Camping Association in all parts of Canada. “Jo”, as we all 
knew her, was the kindly and efficient Editor of our Magazine who brought 
a witty and appropriate turn of phrase to her presentations at the Editorial 
Committee Meetings as well as to her writing. 

We came to know her as an understanding person with an optimistic 
outlook coloured always with good humor. Conversation with Jo was one 
of the good things to enjoy; her youthful approach in thought gave her an 
enthusiastic response to new ideas as they were presented. 

When she chose her Second Career with us, she had just reached the 
close of one phase of her life. Prior to her acceptance of the Editorship 
three years ago, she had worked with the YWCA of Canada for forty-two 
years as National Publications Secretary and Editor of The Journal, 
travelling for that Association through most of Canada and the United 
States. On her retirement, she was commissioned to write a history of the 
YWCA. Published in 1966 under the title she chose, “When Women Work 
Together”, it stands as a realistic work, a fascinating and little-known 
account of the part these dedicated women played in Canadian History. 

Hers was a full life, varied and always peopled with those she served 
and worked with. She leaves a host of close friends and associates who will 
miss the warm smile and mischievous twinkle that was part of her, even to 
the very end. 

H. ARNOLD WARD 


During this year, we were saddened 
by the loss of H. Arnold Ward, a former 
President of the Ontario Camping 
Association, and one who was actively 
engaged in camping in many parts of 
Canada. He was Acting General Sec¬ 
retary of the Halifax YMCA following 
his retirement from YMCA National 
Council in 1967. In a tribute by Mr. 
Les Vipond, National YMCA General 
Secretary, he remarks: “He had a fresh 
sense of wonderment and naivety. It 
was this sense of joy and wonderment 
that made Arnold’s career in the 
YMCA such a significant one. He 
made his first mark in the adult educa¬ 


tion field in the Ottawa Branch, and 
became a great pioneer in Young Adult 
Camping in Canada, especially at Red 
Pine Camp. The work that was done 
under Am’s leadership in some of the 
communities in West Toronto in the 
early 40’s would stand up to the scru¬ 
tiny of some of today’s most demand¬ 
ing perfectionists. After a brief period 
with what is now the Toronto Social 
Planning Council, he soon joined the 
National Staff. Young Adult Work, 
World Service, Industrial Management 
Clubs, Personnel Services, Field Services 
were all raised to new levels of excel¬ 
lence through the agency of Am Ward’s 
devoted leadership.” 


JOHN LECKIE LIMITED 

WAU TENTS, SCOUT TENTS, TARPS, SLEEPING BAGS, ETC. 
also 

SNOWMOBILE SUITS AND GAUNTLETS 

30 UPJOHN ROAD, DON MILLS, ONT. 445-3400 


Toronto, Canada, Summer 1969 


99 





DISCIPLINE 

A Matter of Human Relations 

by M. C. MacCullock, 

Section Director, Bolton Campy 
Bolton, Ontario 


In the area of Human Relations, 
most young people coming to a summer 
camp for the first time find themselves 
abruptly in strange territory with few 
landmarks. Their experience with disci¬ 
pline has found them for the most part 
on the receiving end of the process. 

First, as leaders, they should realize 
that there are few “bom” disciplin¬ 
arians. Most of us have to work at the 
art. 

Secondly, as senior leaders, we do 
not expect the new staff member to 
acquire naturally the proper attitude 
and accepted means of disciplining chil¬ 
dren. We remember their feelings of 
incompetence in this area of newness, 
and we know how uncomfortable they 
are in the presence of the unknown 
foe. 

We must, then, share what has been 
an evolution in our own style and 
methods of handling children. 

What is discipline? 

Unfortunately, the very word “disci¬ 
pline” tends to imply the military mean¬ 
ing of total submission of the individual 
to an authority. Any deviation from the 
established order is rewarded with pun¬ 
ishment of some nature. 

The Latin word Discipulus means 
follower. The French word Disc ere 
means to learn. The English root for 
discipline is the same as that of Disciple , 
which means a follower of a teacher. 


At camp, discipline connnotes not 
misdemeanours and crude physical pun¬ 
ishments, but rather teaching, training, 
guidance and mutual trust. We disci¬ 
pline campers with the long term goal 
of helping to contribute to the develop¬ 
ment of the child’s inner controls so 
that he can live effectively as an adult 
in society. Granting that the ultimate 
aim of teaching self-discipline is a slow¬ 
ly acquired attainment for children, at 
camp, it should be our goal. 

Some suggestions for developing 
a good camping atmosphere: 

The old adage that an ounce of 
prevention is worth a pound of cure 
certainly still holds true for the modem 
counsellor. For every accident there is 
a cause. For every discipline problem 
there is a reason. In order to under¬ 
stand the reason, the counsellor must 
first look to: 

(1) himself 

(2) his attitude 

(3) his programme 

and then to his campers. The behav¬ 
iour of children is usually a symptom. 
It is necessary to find the points of 
infection before a lasting change in the 
child’s behaviour can be made. Once 
the motive is understood, one must 
cultivate an objectivity which will reject 
the misbehaviour without rejecting the 
camper. 

The following “tried and tested” 
preventatives might serve as guidelines 


100 


Canadian Camping 



CAMPER'S 



EP AIR 


CENTE 



FROM 


My 


PRODUCTS INC 


J 



DISPLAY 1 601 

The display includes the following merchandise: 




SUGGESTED LIST 

ITEM NO. 


(EACH) 

101 

Camper's Multi-Use Repair Kits 

$4.25 

102 

Jiffy Air Mattress Repair Kits 

0.98 

104 

Jiffy Sew Tent & Canvas Repair Kits 

0.98 

110 

Grommet Patch Kits 

1.49 

111 

65" HD Zipper Kits (non-separable) 

3.98 

112 

72" HD Zipper Kits (separable) 

4.98 

118 

108" LD Zipper Kit (separable) 

4.98 

126 

Handi-Grommet Installation Kits 

6.98 

127 

Snap Installation Kits 

2.49 

201 

Jiffy Sew Blister Packs 

0.79 


Jiffy Products Inc., 4180 Ave. de Courtrai, Montreal 249, P. Q. Canada. 


Printed in Canada 










for the new leader. The list, although 

lengthy, is by no means exhaustive. 

L Watch your campers as much as 
you can. By being constantly on 
the alert you can spot a potential 
troublemaker before the plan to 
create a problem is more than a 
gleam in his eye. 

2. Know what you are doing! Ad¬ 
vance preparation and some organ¬ 
ization will save you 'many head¬ 
aches. When your campers find 
out you are a phoney and playing 
it “by ear” they will lose all con¬ 
fidence in you. When confidence 
and subsequently respect is lost, 
your discipline and control of your 
charges will rapidly disintegrate. 

3. Be ENTHUSIASTIC! That word 
is a most popular one among unit 
leaders. Have a keen and genuine 
interest in your campers and their 
activities. Enthusiasm is catching. 
Avoid monotony in your presenta¬ 
tions. Occasionally vary your style, 
your inflection, your pace and your 
tone. 

4. From the arrival of your campers, 
show that you are a firm but fair 
leader. You set the tone for your 
group. Earn respect by showing it. 
Be firm until expected behavioural 
patterns are established. Remember 
that children expect to be disci¬ 
plined. They will co-operate only if 


they know what is expected of 
them. 

5. Set your standards. Establish few 
requirements. Be sure what you 
want is clearly defined, obviously 
reasonable, and within the reach 
and capacity of the age group with 
which you are working. 

6. Be positive in all your instructions 
and directions. Point out the rea¬ 
son “why” we do things a certain 
way. 

7. Show no favouritism, (although it 
will be there) ; a genuine liking for 
your campers and your job; a faith 
in the better nature of your wards; 
and always a sense of humour. 

8. Plan constructive, positive, and 
meaningful activities for your 
campers. Most trouble results from 
boredom or inactivity. 

9. Before you get excited, save your¬ 
self trouble and help the camper 
by thinking your way into his feel¬ 
ings and then putting those feelings 
into words for him and you. *(e.g. 
“You’re disappointed — you were 
counting on this and now we can’t 
do it and that makes you mad.” Or 
“It’s a hard to wait for something 
you like, isn’t it?”) DO THIS 
BEFORE YOU TRY ANY OF 
THE OTHER DISCIPLINE 
TECHNIQUES which follow, 
such as arguing, reasoning, preach- 


BI-MOR FROZEN FOOD SERVICE LTD. 

DISTRIBUTORS OF 

FROZEN FOODS, VEGETABLES, SEA FOODS, MEATS, ETC. 

• KRAFT FOODS • E. D. SMITH 

• NESTLES • RICH’S PRODUCTS 

• GENERAL FOODS • WYANDOTTE CHEMICALS 

TWICE WEEKLY REFRIGERATED SERVICE IN MUSKOKA, 

LAKE OF BAYS AND HALIBURTON 

HUNTSVILLE REPRESENTATIVE 789-5341 TORONTO OFFICE 742-4755 


Toronto’, Canada', Summer 1969 


101 



WROUGHT IRON RANGE 
CO. 

OF CANADA, LIMITED 

COMPLETE KITCHEN AND 
FOOD SERVICE EQUIPMENT 
AND SMALL WARES 

1360 Bloor Street West, Toronto 4 
537-1281 

Visit our exhibit at the O.C.A. Conference 


ing, lecturing, and using your fancy 
psychological tricks. 

10. Try to learn each particular child’s 
language and learn to use it na¬ 
turally. It also means learning his 
particular feelings about things, 
especially the areas that are 
“charged” for him. (e.g. food, 
physical contact or injury, losing in 
games.) 

11. Aggressive behaviour and disturb¬ 
ing behaviour very often start from 
the child’s anxiety which is a result 
of anger or resentment. While it 
may not be possible to discover 
what the camper is anxious about, 
the situation can often be helped 
by something that makes the child 
feel safe. 

12. If you think the camper will tell 
you on his own , give him the 
chance to ask you the questions, 
such as “Is there anything you 
want to tell me?” Don’t interrupt 
without apology and explanation 
and only then do so sparingly. 
Don’t ask “Why?” Usually a child 
doesn’t know “Why?” or can’t ex¬ 
press it if he does. 

13. When a problem has been explored 
in the above ways, help the camper 
frame his own plans for improving 
the situation, away from the other 
campers’ ears. Usually he wants to. 

14. The average leader talks too much. 
The good counsellor talks only 


when his campers are listening and 
when he has something important 
to say. Speaking clearly, simply, 
with dignity and authority in his 
tone, and at a moderate speed will 
be most effective. He also must 
return the courtesy and give his 
campers every opportunity to talk 
while he listens. 

When should a child be disciplined? 

The general rule is that a child needs 
to be “re-directed” when he acts in a 
disturbing and annoying manner which 
affects the other members of his group 
in a negative manner. What does this 
theory really mean? 

(1) When the camper becomes unco¬ 
operative and will not respond to rea¬ 
sonable and necessary suggestions and/ 
or directions of the leader, some control 
must obviously be exercised. 

(2) Children of all ages are fond of 
testing the limits of their superiors. 
When the child goes beyond the bound¬ 
aries set by the leader, then he must 
be controlled. Here again it might be 
noted that a busy camper is seldom 
mischievous. 

(3) As long as a camper is a member 
of a social unit, he must be trained to 
do his share of the work and to partici¬ 
pate where it is necessary to do so, with 
his fellow members. 

(4) Every camp has certain regula¬ 
tions which must be adhered to. A con¬ 
scious breaking of these becomes a 
discipline problem to be dealt with. 

Experience has taught that mis¬ 
demeanours must be checked but do 
not be petty. Be sure the camper sees 
you later if the incident requires more 
than a word or two at the time. “See 
everything and notice little.” 

Some control techniques: 

(1) Signal Interference: 

When a camper is disturbing discus¬ 
sion or not paying attention to instruc¬ 
tions, a dramatic pause, a nod, or a 


102 


Canadian Camping 



wave will be a signal for him. If the 
child is aware of your intentions, some¬ 
times nothing more is needed for minor 
problems. 

(2) Proximity Control: 

Move into the area of the disturbance 
and settle it by your mere physical 
presence without interrupting your 
planned programme. 

(3) Direct Appeal: 

Show your displeasure by use of your 
voice, employing a tone of authority. 
Avoid yelling though, and always follow 
through if the child persists in mis¬ 
behaving. Do not overuse the voice. A 
calm but stem tone will make your 
point quite adequately. 

Do not make threats. NEVER say, 
“Do this or else!*’ You either have to 
back such statements up which may be 
injudicious, or back down which is 
suicidal. When you make threats, you 
tie your own hands. 


(4) Planful Ignoring: 

If the disturbance is a minor one, 
ignore it completely. If you feel it js 
necessary to fake some comment, deal 
with the problem later and with the 
camper alone. t 

(5) Transition: 

Move the disturber out of the group 
completely if you cannot control hiip 
and run an effective programme. Sit 
him apart and deal with him whejl 
you have time. If he is a consistent 
problem, keep your eye on him in h}s 
confinement, else by the time you get 
around to him you may be dealing with 
a runaway! 

(6) Reasoning: 

Watch the use of this. For the young¬ 
er campers especially, this usually is 
impossible. It may take the form of a 
discussion with an interview format. 
NEVER let this become a Reward Deal 
where if the camper promises to behave, 
you promise to reward him. Again, use 


* 7.7._ id 

Extra QUALITY PAYS . . . 

and that is verified by the confidence of our customers, which continues 
year after year. 

Fooderaft specialized foods offer many unique advantages and they sum 
up to what you want — distinctive quality meals at minimum cost. 

Sales personnel thoroughly experienced in camp procedure is at your 
service day or night — just advise us of a convenient time. 

• Specialized Foods • Specialized Service 

FOODCRAFT LABORATORIES LIMITED 

260 Richmond Street East Toronto 2, Ontario 

Telephone: 368-8088 

DIRECT SERVICE ACROSS CANADA 
Member — Canadian Camping Association and various regional associations 


Toronto, Canada, Summer 1969 


103 



THE VERY BEST 
SOLID FOAM 
MATTRESSES 

for 

TRAILERS COTTAGES 

BOATS CAMPS 

at the lowest prices 

FOAM SALES REG'D 

47 CROCKFORD BLVD. 
SCARBOROUGH, ONT. 

751-0561 


FREEZE-DRIED FOODS 

EXPANDED LINE FOR ’69 


Meats • Vegetables • Fruits 
Egg Dishes • Sandwich Mixes 
Main Dishes • Large Packs 


Write for price lists and brochure 
to 

FREEZE-DRY FOODS LTD. 

579 Speers Road 
OAKVILLE - ONTARIO 


caution here. You may not be as psy¬ 
chologically equipped to reason with 
your camper as you might think. 
Remember there is perhaps as much 
as a generation dividing you and your 
camper. 

(7) Code of Conduct: 

This is the “man to man” tactic 
where you treat the child with an 
understanding respect. You emphasise 
the ideals of good sportsmanship and 
face the probem as “men”. 

(8) Social Control: 

Here* if you are sure you know what 
you are doing, you let the camper face 
a tribunal of his peers. No pressure you 
can exert will have more effect than a 
punishment decided upon by the other 
members of the camper’s group. You 
must safeguard the misuse of demo¬ 
cracy in action here. Children, if the 
culprit is unpopular, might democra¬ 
tically decree an unjust punishment. A 
good and cautious leader can guard by 
guidance and direction the jury’s deci¬ 
sion. 

,(9) Deprivation: 

This may be deprivation of some¬ 
thing which the camper enjoys, or some 
object connective with the offense. The 
one exception is food. Meals at all 
camps are a RIGHT not a privilege. 
This is as true of dessert as it is of 
main course. 

(10) K.V. Duty: 

The assignment of extra duties, im¬ 
mediately after and in relation to the 
misdemeanor, can effectively be used. 

This matter of justice 

There are, unfortunately, no pat 
solutions for particular problems as 
each case and each child deserves in¬ 
dividual and unique consideration. 
What is his family situation? What are 
his handicaps? What is his general so- 


104 


Canadun Camping 














cial adjustment to camp life? What 
could be the possible cause of the ac¬ 
tion? What might be a practical solu¬ 
tion? Punishment? 

Each discipline problem is usually 
a conflict between people, and thus it 
is the personality characteristics of the 
people involved that are the controlling 
factors, and these characteristics can 
be so different in different environments 
that it is impossible and impractical to 
suggest solutions to the problems. 

Be certain, in order to be just, that 
everyone is fully aware of the conse¬ 
quences of misbehaviour. Show the 
natural and fair action for the offenses. 
Be certain also that each camper sees 
a lesson to be learned for the punish¬ 
ment. 

The leader must be dependable and 
consistent in all of his decisions He 
must be sure that his justice is always 
tempered with: 

1. compassion, never sarcasm or belit- 
tlement. Avoid anything that hurts 
the camper’s self-esteem. Never 
punish him so that he is teased, 
embarrassed, or ridiculed — even 
when it appears harmless and the 
camper appears to be taking it in 
good spirit. 

2. empathy , which is not sympathy. 


3. complete mental presence; NEVER 
when you are impassioned with the 
deed or the circumstances. The 
effect of a loud reprimand is usually 
just the reverse — the louder the 
leader, the less the camper hears. 
When you lose your temper you 
become an easy mark for other 
budding mischievous campers. 

Discipline is never: 

(1) retaliation, 

(2) retribution, 

(3) punishment for punishment’s 
sake, 

(4) or group punishment. The in¬ 
nocent are justifiably resentful. 

Punishment is always the last resort. 
In no instance may justice at camp take 
the form of physical punishment. We 
are not parents and these are not. our 
children. We treat them as a kind and 
judicious parent would, WITHOUT 

Studies show that 95% of all children 
respond to motivation. Therefore it 
fellows that discipline problems will be 
kept to a minimum if the campers are 
provided with proper motivation and 
intelligent direction by their leader. 




BER STO 


"JOE BEAVER" A GOOD JOE TO KNOW 

MORE THAN 285 STORES ACROSS CANADA 
FREE ESTIMATES AND PLANNING HELP 


Toronto, Canada, Summer 1969 


105 



PROGRAMME IDEAS 


DAY CAMP 
OVERNIGHTS 


Adapted from a session 

led by Tony Lea, Section Head, 

Bayview Glen Day Camp. 

Ontario Camping Association Conference 


Ov ernights should be one of the most 
important parts of every child’s camp¬ 
ing experience. Parents often look to 
the day camp, and especially the one 
at which overnights are planned, as a 
preliminary step before sending their 
child to a resident or tripping camp. 
Therefore, the day camp which offers 
overnights should make the most of 
this great opportunity to teach the chil¬ 
dren about living and cooking out of 
doors, and about sharing responsibility. 

To do this effectively a camp must 
be more than a ‘day camp’. It must 
select experienced counsellors and give 
them additional training, it must have 
appropriate shelters, at least some cook¬ 
ing and overnighting equipment, special 
food provisions and a planned but flex¬ 
ible program which the children and 
counsellors can look forward to. To 
make overnights run smoothly, other 
things are required. There should be 
someone (or group) who is in charge, 
if possible, of all the facets of over¬ 
nights; there should be an overnight 
‘policy* or rules, more effective inner- 
camp and camp-parent communication, 
a spirit of co-operation to make the 
best of what is available. It must be 
remembered that we are responsible 
not only for the children’s safety and 
wellbeing but also the impression of 
what overnighting is all about. It is 
particularly important to teach the 
children, especially the ‘first-timers’, 
what is best and yet allow them to have 


the fun that overnights are capable of 
providing. 

At our camp we have overnights 
from age four-and-a-half years on. For 
groups of age five-and-a-half on we try 
to give them two overnights a month. 
Half our senior seven on section, after 
a preliminary overnight, spends the 
third week of each month on what we 
call ‘the week long’. We have a camp- 
craft specialty program which was de¬ 
signed to prepare each group for their 
overnights, and serves to plan and co¬ 
ordinate the overnights themselves. Our 
campcraft ‘prefab garage’ headquarters 
has been nicknamed ‘The Hub’ prim¬ 
arily because of its overnight function. 
With the number of groups we have to 
work into eleven nights per month, 
we have an overnight capacity for ten 
groups per night but for ease of pro¬ 
gramming, we like to have six or fewer 
groups, preferably of approximately the 
same age. We also like the younger 
groups to have had more preparation 
and to have gone on more noon cook- 
outs *( which is a great additional source 
of out-of-doors experience) than the 
older groups. Therefore a great deal 
of multivariate co-ordination is required 
in scheduling the overnights. Due allow¬ 
ance must be made to cancel one or 
more overnights, especially if younger 
groups are involved, because of ex¬ 
tremely bad weather. 

We have found that it is better to 
schedule the overnights at the begin¬ 
ning of each month. Thus the counsel¬ 
lors, children, and parents know well 
ahead of time; the ordering of food is 
made easier. Menus are planned gen¬ 
erally by the counsellors, also well in 
advance. (In our menu meetings, pre¬ 
ferences are discussed — with the age 
and previous experience of the children 
in question — what was eaten on their 
previous overnight — and what is plan¬ 
ned for lunch — as controls). Informa¬ 
tive permission letters are sent home 
with the children about a week before 
their overnight; these include equip- 


106 


Canadian Camping 






Toronto, Canada, Summer 1969 


107 















ment lists and explanations of proce¬ 
dure. It is the Section Head’s job to 
submit a list of bus cancellations on 
the day of the overnight. 

At four o’clock on the day of the 
overnight we assemble the groups at a 
point remote from the bus departure 
site and we explain to the children why 
program is planned, the times, what is 
on the menu, and if necessary, sugges¬ 
tions on how it should be prepared. 

Obviously, food and how it turns out 
can add greatly to, or detract greatly 
from, the overall experience. After this 
brief meeting sometimes a program is 
followed but usually the groups under 
their counsellor do somthing autono¬ 
mously. Often additional wood is col¬ 
lected as a game. After this, according 
to each group’s duty roster, quarter¬ 
masters are dispatched for food — for 
both meals — two bushel baskets from 
the camp kitchen. The breakfast baskets 
without perishables are taken to the 
Hub •— where they are animal-proof. 
Other campers pick up their pile of 
necessary equipment from the Hub 
where there is always someone on duty. 
The meal is prepared in soaped pots 
and pans over metal grates on open 
fires. Groups are encouraged to build 
different types of fires and are urged 
strongly to build themselves a table. 
Both these group projects beforehand 
are great experiences and make a bet¬ 
ter overnight. After clean-up, the equip¬ 
ment is stored in the tent and all 
perishables taken back to the Hub — 
it is usually time for swim. The free 
swim — with swim staff presiding — 
is such a highlight that it is only can¬ 
celled when the weather is very cold or 
rainy. A wide-game usually follows 
swim and a campfire follows that. Both 
of these are extremely important, espe¬ 
cially the latter, and should be pre¬ 
planned. Hot chocolate and marsh¬ 
mallows are brought to the campfire, 
so that after Taps there is an added 
incentive for them to visit the outdoor 
Johnny-on-the-Spots, to wash, and to 


brush their teeth. Although some of 
the older groups have gone on mid¬ 
night hikes, Taps usually ends our group 
programs as such. 

After the children are settled (no 
ghost stories permitted), we have a 
counsellor snack and possibly an in¬ 
formal counsellor program. Counsellors’ 
morale is important. All we ask is that 
one counsellor is with the children at 
all times and that no one leaves the 
camp property. Parents and visitors are 
discouraged. It is at these times and 
for group programs that a person in 
charge is especially needed. We have 
no curfew. It is a good time to mention 
that a person who is skilled in first aid 
should always be readily available. We 
have a comprehensive first aid kit in 
the Hub at all times. The children’s 
medical records, a car, and a phone 
should also be on hand. 

Necessarily the morning starts early. 
Breakfast procedure is much like din¬ 
ner. We try to have clean up finished 
by the time the other groups arrive 
and if we are a little .late we try to 
keep them separate. Perishables and 
leftovers are always returned promptly 
to the Hub, as is the spotless equip¬ 
ment, if it is not the c week-long’, for 
Hub staff must start their specialty 
periods with the buses’ arrival. It is 
usually noticed in the morning how 
much closer a group is — and how 
much more they appreciate their 
counsellor. 

In the past few years we have found 
that we have enjoyed many successful 
overnights by roughly following this 
format; but flexibility in the pro¬ 
gramming is very essential. This means 
more than being prepared for bad 
weather. The children should always be 
asked if they have any preferences as 
to the program. And these ideas should 
be strongly considered even if they must 
be modified to be implemented. Our 
overnights have different types of pro¬ 
grams for different age groups. Wide 
page 113 please 


108 


Canadian Camping 


READING 


. In French 

LE GUIDE DU MONITEUR 

par Mary L. Northway , Barry Lowes 


For the first time in the history of 
camping, an established book for Camp 
directors and staff, originally written in 
English, has been translated into 
French. It is interesting to note that 
this has taken place just at the time 
when the French and English Sections 
of the Quebec Camping Association 
have amalgamated. 

In her preface, Madame Nicolas 
Demetelin, at that time President of 
the Quebec Camping Association, com¬ 
mented : 

“Volontiers, j 3 ai accepti de prefacer 
ce livre, a mon avis> d’une importance 
capitale . . . Au futur moniteur, comme 
d celui qui est ddjd engage dans cette 
voie de devouement, la lecture de ce 


livre donnera conscience de ces valeurs. 
Aussi ces apotres s 3 eleveront-ils au 
niveau de leur vocation 33 

Father Lionel Perras, of l 5 Association 
des Camps de Quebec, added a fore¬ 
word: 

“Pour etre educateur, il faut de plus 
etre soi-meme un modele . . . Le moni¬ 
teur trouvera a la lecture de ces pages 
non seulement la technique dont il 
aura besom, mais aussi la mystique et 
la philosophic qui doivent Vanimer 
comme educateur de la jeunesse en 
Stant pour elle un modele 33 

Available through: 

Quebec Camping Assn., 

2233 Belgrave Ave., Montreal 261, Que. 
$2.95. 


WHEREVER YOU ARE . . . 



PROPANE 


Serves you best 

'Superior' Propane gives you all the advantages of Gas no matter where you are 
throughout Canada's vacation and resort areas. You can make your camp, motel 
or resort as modern as tomorrow with 'Superior' Propane. 

Save time and money. Use 'Superior' Propane for all your camp operations. Cook¬ 
ing, Refrigeration, Water Heating, Incineration, Power Plants and Lighting. 



PROPANE LTD. 


1865 LESLIE STREET. DON MILLS 


444-7351 


Toronto, Canada, Summer 1969 


109 






CHESTNUT CANOE CO. LTD. 

FREDERICTON, N.B. 

OVER 70 YEARS OF SERVICE TO 
CANADIAN CAMPERS 

Over 45 Models to choose from. 

A Canoe for every purpose 

“Go With A Chestnut ” 


PAL MODEL 


KRUGER MODEL 

Write to the Chestnut Canoe Co. 
For Free Literature and Prices 


110 


Canadian Camping 







from page 95 

things as towers, forts, signs and the 
like. I remember one Counsellor who 
made a model of our camp with the 
help of his campers by using, of all 
things, materials from nature, such as 
moss, rocks, flowers, twigs. 

Some Counsellors play the ‘Small 
Numbers Game’ in other ways. One 
Counsellor took his group on a trip 
down the river using a raft and he 
propelled this craft with long poles. 

I have seen Counsellors adapt land 
games to water, games such as football 
and water volleyball. 

A Counsellor might set up a compass 
or map reading scavenger hunt, or per¬ 
haps teach his campers how to make 
eating utensils, lean-to’s, or beds from 
the resources about them, or perhaps 
the ideal campsite. 


THE LIFE YOU’VE LIVED TODAY 

Can you say tonight in parting with the 
day that’s slipping past, 

That you helped a single person of the 
many you have passed? 

Is a single life rejoicing over what you 
did or said? 

Does one whose hopes were fading, 
now with courage look ahead? 

Did you waste the day or lose it, was 
it well or poorly spent? 

Did you leave a trail of kindness, or a 
scar of discontent? 

As you close your eyes in slumber, do 
you think that God would say, 

“You have made the world much better 
for the life you’ve lived today?” 

—Author unknown. 



This water purification kit 
gives you safer water 4 ways. 


1. Allows you to make lake, river and foreign waters positively safe, 
using Public Health Service recommended method. 2. Completely 
removes amoebic cysts (which cause dysentery) and other hazardous 
water-borne parasites, as reported by John Hopkins University. 

3. Provides safer, cleaner water with ample flow for both kitchen 
and washroom via superfine filtration and a targe filter area. 

4. EVERPURE MICRGPURE® filtering provides bottle-quality water 
for drinking and cooking by removing disagreeable tastes like chlor¬ 
ine, sulphur and detergent. 



WATER TREATMENT 


Hadwen Road, 
Clarkson, Ontario 

The cost of EVERPURE 
sweet clear water? 

Less than $100. 


Toronto , Canada , Summer 1969 


111 




com pure 

GENERAL 

HANDICRAFT 

SUPPLIES 

FOR 

SUMMER 

CAMPS 


, Tor Handicraft itsJ.ewiscraff'\ 


PLEASE COME IN AND SEE OUR 
CAMP CRAFTS . . . THEY WILL 
INTEREST YOU! 

• • • 

EM. 3-5206 

284 KING ST. WEST 
TORONTO 2B, ONTARIO 


WHY ARCHIVES? 

Mr. J , D. P. Martin, Librarian at Trent 
University, has written this statement at the 
request of the Archives Committee of the 
Ontario Camping Association. 

It should inspire other Associations which 
are considering the setting up of Archives 
Collections—before it is too late. 

A historian said recently that a com¬ 
munity which does not know its own 
history is like a man who has lost his 
memory. The same is true of an institu¬ 
tion organization or association which 
has failed to preserve the documents 
that record its traditions and achieve¬ 
ments, Knowledge of its origin and 
development provides an association 
with a sense of historic purpose which 
gives it direction for the future. An 
archives serves as an association’s 
“memory” of its own historical evolu¬ 
tion. 

It is the function of an archives to 
collect, arrange, store and retrieve the 
official and unofficial records relating 
to an association’s development, and to 1 
provide reference services to users of 
the collection. Samples of the kind of 
records which should be collected are 
as follows: legal documents, minute 
books (of the association and all its 
committees with supporting documents 
such as reports and letters), official cor¬ 
respondence, accounting records, an¬ 
nual reports, camp records, drawings 
and plans, etc., records relating to per¬ 
sonnel, personal papers relating to 
people who have been active in the 
camping movement (diaries, journals, 
correspondence, etc.,) photographs, and 
miscellaneous papers (essays, lectures, 
etc.,) which can throw light on the 
association or the camping movement. 

The archives of a camping associa¬ 
tion is more than simply a record of its 
own historic past. I t is also a repository 
of material relating to an important 
aspect of social history. By stimulating 
scholarly interest in its contents, it can 
be expected to make a major contribu¬ 
tion to the history of the whole com¬ 
munity. 


112 


Canadian Camping 






NEW RULES OF THE ROAD 
.. AND THE FOREST 

Because careless smokers burn about 
50,000 acres of forest annually in On¬ 
tario, its Department of Lands and 
Forests is now enforcing a new Forest 
Fires Prevention Act which was passed 
in 1968: 

No person shall smoke, while walking 
or working in a forest or woodland 
during the fire season. If a person sits 
down to smoke and safely disposes of 
the cigarette butt, there is no problem. 
If a fisherman stands by a stream fish¬ 
ing, this is not considered work. But 
if parents come into camp, continue 
smoking as they walk down the paths 
or roads, or if anyone smokes on a hike 
through the woods, and the fire warden 
meets the offender, the maximum fine 
is $1,000, at th? discretion °f Judge. 

Then there’s tj}is problem of hitch¬ 
hiking. In Ontario the Ontario Provin¬ 
cial Police realize the danger and now 
impose fines. No hitch-hiking whatever 
is allowed on Highways 400 and 4pl. 
Hitch-hikers must not' ''Walk bn* the 
travelled part any ^highway ^any¬ 
where in the province. The fine is $50. 
We have no information about such 
laws in other provinces, but it might be 
well to check with the R.C.M.P. before 
allowing campers to hike on a highway. 


from page 108 

games can be ‘geared down’ or ela¬ 
borated upon depending on the age of 
the campers. Some of our most suc¬ 
cessful games for older campers have 
had the girls VS the boys. We have also 
found that in some games, counsellor 
participation is particularly rewarding 
for both them and the campers. The 
campfire program and its length vary 
greatly with the age group represented. 
It cannot be emphasized enough, how¬ 
ever, that everybody’s co-operation is 
needed for the most successful over¬ 
nights. 


CAMP OWNERS USE 





SOUGNUM 

Preserves end bee ut if its 
exterior wood - 

SUPER SOUGNUM 

Indoor end outdoor 
wood, stein for fences, 
wells, furoitur^ end decks 

* it# 

RYLARD VARNISH 

Femous merint quelity 

NORDIC ENAMEL 

Herd weering 
merint finish 

TOXO 

A weter repellent 
cenves preservetive 


STURGEONS LIMITED 



9 STURGEON ROAD 
SCARBOROUGH. ONT. 


<35pS?> 


'Protective @04X1*94 pot t 4 U Puepetee 


$25 


YOUR FREE GIFT 
FROM TANDY 

Send today for your new 32-page 
camp flyer . . . with 50 FREE 
coupons worth $25 Off any 1 Tandy 
merchandise. 

★ Leathercraft 

★ Plastic Casting 

★ Copper Tooling 

★ Condlecraft 


BOX 340 

BARRIE, 

ONTARIO 



Toronto , Canada , Summer 1969 


113 



















from page 91 

Responsibility for some special pro¬ 
grammes 

Responsible for grace at meals 
Assist at camper council 
Take charge of banquet plans 
Take charge of fire drill 
Lead singing after meals 
Supervise cabin clean-up. 

Take over a cabin for a short time 
to observe how campers act, 
how counsellor responds, how 
the section director responds. 

E: Special forms of training: 

Weekly interviews and evaluation 
with CIT director 
Written examination 
CIT major canoe trip 


Human relations training 

F: Menial tasks and housekeeping 
duties: 

Kitchen duty 
Waiting on tables 
Camp clean-up 
Telephone duty 
Host for visitors 

Helping campers with luggage first 
and last days 
Cabin inspection 
Preparing for cookouts 
Building camp fires for special 
events 

Responsibility for camp property 
and equipment 

Improvement of specific areas of 
the camp 


Obviously, no camp could include all of this content material in a CIT 
program, and it is unlikely that any camp would want to. Nor is there any 
suggestion of how these activities could or should be implemented. 

Each camp’s own individual approach to its apprentice counsellors should 
indicate what material to use and how to apply it. 


POOL MAN Limited 

Water Fun & Safety Items 
Playground Equipment 
Transhailers 

Woter Pumps and Softeners 
Write for Catalogue 

11 Oakland Ave. 
Weston, Ont. - 244-5513 


GUMPERT ’S FOR ’69 

Mrui SUGAR CREME SPREAD 

NLVf —CHEF'S SAUCE BASE 

FRUIT TART FILLINGS 
NO BAKE PIE FILLINGS 

COMING - c b ^ ba s?Iw rolls 

MUSHROOM GRAVY MIX 
ONION GRAVY MIX 
CHICKEN GRAVY MIX 
AU JUS GRAVY MIX 
ICING POWDERS 
DRESSING MIXES 

S. GUMPERT CO. OF CANADA LTD. 

31 Brock Ave., Toronto 3, Ont. 531-5758 


OUR FRIENDS . . . 
The Advertisers 

Allcock, Laight & Westwood, Ltd. 93 

Beaver Lumber.. 105 

Bi-Mor Frozen Food Service.101 

Chestnut Canoe Co. Ltd. ....._....._110 

Continental Casualty Co.Outside Back 

Everpure of Canada, Ltd....Ill 

Foam Sales, Reg’d_-_ 104 

Foodcraft Laboratories, Ltd. _*.*...103 

Freeze-Dry Foods, Ltd. ___ 1Q4 

Gibbons Foods, Ltd... Inside Front 

S. Gumpert Co. of Canada, Ltd. *_*114 

John Leckie, Ltd..... 99 

Lewis Craft. 112 

McKague Chemical Co., Ltd. ..107 

North West Canvas, Ltd. 92 

Poolman, Ltd. . ...114 

Quaker Oats Co. of Canada, Ltd. 97 

Ryerson Bookstore .. 95 

J. M. Schneider, Ltd. 91 

Stafford Foods Ltd... ....115 

Starkman Chemists, Ltd. 115 

Sturgeons, Ltd. ....—:*J13 

Superior Propane ..............—..-104 

Tandy Leather Co...—113 

Tom Taylor Marine Distributors, Ltd. 95 

G. R. Welch Co., Ltd. 93 


114 


Canadian Camping 


























MEDICAL 
SUPPLIES 
FOR CAMPS? 

Starkmans of course, because we have been supplying all the major 
camps for over 37 years. 

Starkmans wholesale division gives you one source of supply—fast 
service, and all orders are shipped the same day received. 

You are sure of the finest First Aid equipment, drugs and medicines, 
call or write, and remember low, low prices prevail at Starkmans. 

STARKMAN 

“3n the Sexvice of Medicine” CHEMISTS LIMITED 

1243 Bathurst St., Toronto 
535-3103 


NOW 



PUS FOR CAMPS 

Wise comps use Stafford’s pie filling and boke o pie in 
HALF THE TIME. Stafford's pie filling is reody-to<-use. Just pour 
it in the pie shell, and pop it in the oven. Out comes a tender, 
flaky pife na camper can resist, with his favorite filling — 
pineapple, mincemeat, raisin, raspberry, blueberry, cherry, 
apple, boysenberry, apricot, peach or strawberry and rhubarb. 

See your Stafford man for pickles, relish, mayonnaise, 
mustard, hot chocolate, canned fruits and vegetables, tea, jams 
and toppings ... all with that homemade flavour. 


Stafford foods l 

^ m m W 37 Hanna Ave. 

BRANCHES: 366-8021 

MONCTON, MONTREAL, WINNIPEG, CALGARY, EDMONTON, VANCOUVER 



IMITED 

- Toronto 3 












Campers learn through satisfying their 
curiosity. This can be dangerous play 
when they disregard the camp safety 
measures you demand of them. This 
season, with the addition of Continental’s 
Camp-Guard Insurance, your campers 
and staff can be insured against the 
medical expenses they might incur as 
a result of an illness or an unexpected 
mishap. 

And to let parents know that their child¬ 
ren will have the necessary coverage to 
help pay *any medical bills during the 
camp stay, use the Camp-Guard Seal of 
Approval on all your promotional ma¬ 
terial. It identifies your camp as having 
the finest accident and sickness medical 
expense protection available to campers. 

Investigate today how Continental’s 
Camp-Guard can help promote and pro¬ 
tect your camp. Contact your local 
insurance agent or broker for a detailed 
explanation of the plans. 


DANGEROUS 

PLAY! 


this CAMP is PROTECTED 



ACCIDENT and SICKNESS 
INSURANCE 


FREE 

Send for your 
series of Camp-Guard 
Safety Posters. 



CONTINENTS CHSUHLTY COM PUNY 

INDUSTRY MARKETING & SPECIALTY DIVISION 


MONTREAL • TORONTO • WINNIPEG • EDMONTON • CALGARY • VANCOUVER 












