nov. edition 



OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 


ASSOCIATION DES CAMP; Lit. 


an# 




CANADIAN CAMPING 
ASSOCIATION 

Suite 203, 102 Eglinton Avenue East 
Toronto, Ontario M4P 1E1, Canada 


Executive: 

President: 

Vice President: 

Secretary: 

Treasurer: 


John R. Latimer 
Ron Johnstone 
Jay Haddad 
Bryan Graham 


table of contents-sommaire 


Vol. 27 No. 1 

November Edition 1974 edition de novembre 

VIEWPOINT. 3 

by Jocelyn Palm 

CAMPING FOR THE HANDICAPPED .. .THE NORMAL WAY . 4 

by Roger Coles 



CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING 
ALONG THE BOOKSHELF . 


5 

6 


"CANADIAN CAMPING 
PERSONNEL 


Managing Director: 
Editor: 

Advertising Manager: 
Circulation Manager: 
Directory Chairman: 


Jocelyn Palm 
Helen E. Stewart 
Doug Dent 
Mary Pat Bradbury 
Peter Gilbert 


TIPS. 

CHURCH CAMPING FUTURIBLES . 

by the Rev. M or ley G. Clarke , M.A., Th.M. 

DES PENSES. 

AN ASTRONOMICAL ADVENTURE. 

by J.A. Craig 


6 

7 

9 

10 


"Canadian Camping" is the official publica¬ 
tion of the Canadian Camping Association. 
Published four times a year. 


THINGS GO BETTER WITH . . . GOOD PUBLIC RELATIONS 
by Robert P. A ttfield 

THE OUTDOORSMAN. 

by Larry R. Johnston 


15 


18 


Subscription rates: 

$5.00 - 1 year; $12.00 - 3 years 


OUTDOOR COOKERY 


19 


Single copy - $1.50 
CCA membership includes subscription 


Cover Couverture 

designed by Violet A. Cat!in, Graphics , Typesetter tor Canadian Camping 


PROVINCIAL OFFICES 


BUREAUX PROVINCIAUX 


B.C. Camping Association 
633 W. 8th Avenue, Vancouver, B.C. 
(Rick Ryan, President) 

Alberta Camping Association 
332 - 6th Avenue S.W. 
Calgary, Alta. T2P OR 1 
(Garry Cragg, President) 

Saskatchewan Camping Association 
1302 Windsor St., Apt. 64 
Saskatoon, Sask. 

(Margaret Pezderic, President) 

Manitoba Camping Association 
385 St. Mary Ave. 
Winnipeg, Man. R3C ON 1 
(Bob Douglas, President) 


Ontario Camping Association 
102 Eglinton Avenue East, Suite 203 
Toronto, Ont. M4P 1E1 
(Jack Pearse, President) 

L 'association des camps du Quebec 
and 

Quebec Camping Association 
952 CherrierSt., Montreal, Quebec 
(Abbe Rosaire Corbin, president) 

English Section 
2233 Belgrave Ave. 

Montreal, Que. H4A 2L9 
(Val Willis, President) 

Section franpaise 

952 rue Cherrier, Montreal, Ouebec 
(Abbe Robert Maisonneuve, president) 


New Brunswick Camping Association 
Box 5, Bath, New Brunswick 
(Rev. Philip Giberson, President) 

Nova Scotia Camping Association 
Box 3243S, Halifax, Nova Scotia B3J 3H5 
(Rev. David Boston, President) 

Newfoundland & Labrador 
Camping Association 
Box 4188, St. John's, Newfoundland 
(Barbara Taylor, President) 


REPRODUCTION. IN ANY FORM. OF 
MATERIAL- IN "CANADIAN CAMPING" 
MUST HAVE WRITTEN PERMISSION OF 
THE CANADIAN CAMPING 
ASSOCIATION 


















viewpoint /point de vue 


A little extravagance every now and then may give you a good feel¬ 
ing. It isspending more dollars on a holiday than you can realistically 
afford. You dwell upon every sight, sound and experience because 
you know it may be a long time before a similar opportunity 
comes again. 

Those of you who have been readers of Canadian Camping for 
some time may be aware that we overdid the extravaganza. In the 
last three years, the magazine was financially sliding downhill to the 
extent that an unrealistic portion of the CCA budget was consumed 
to keep Canadian Camping coming off the press. As a result of this 
situation, the Board of Directors temporarily suspended publication 
of future magazines effective in February 1974. 

A Task Force was immediately appointed to consider alternative 
methods of communicating with Canadians who were interested in 
camping in Canada. This group presented its report to the April 1974 
meeting of the Board of the Canadian Camping Association. Those 
involved felt strongly that; (a) some form of direct mail to the CCA 
Membership was essential, (b) a newspaper or similar less expensive 
production would not serve as an effective reference tool for schools 
and camp staffs nor would it be as appealing to advertisers, (c) be¬ 
cause of the public relations values, a magazine format should be 
retained if at all possible, (d) the material should inform and educate 
in order to upgrade camp directors and staffs in all provinces, (d) the 
information should be as bilingual as possible, and (f) the magazine 
should be self-supporting and be set up on a more professional basis. 

In order to achieve these recommendations, it was suggested that 
the January Issue of the magazine should be a “Directory Issue’’ and 
contain a complete listing of all CCA Member Camps in each province 
along with the full editorial content. This step was designed to: per¬ 
mit a much wider circulation, appeal to more advertisers, inform 
more parents, school groups and educators of what camps existed 
and what children’s camps are all about. The proposed content of 
the magazine was revised to include year-round camping opportuni¬ 
ties and more general articles in future issues. A concerted effort was 
recommended to obtain new subscribers and advertising rates were 
to be increased in accordance with the current financial situation. 

The Canadian Camping Association Board of Directors accepted 
the Task Force Report and proceeded to put Canadian Camping on 
track. The following appointments were confirmed: Managing 
Director Jocelyn Palm; Editor- Helen Stewart; Circulation Manager 
Mary Pat Bradbury; Advertising Manager—Doug Dent; Directory 
Issue-Peter Gilbert. The Directory Issue has been accepted by all 
provinces and over 20,000 copies will be issued as the next magazine. 
Regular circulation has already increased ten per cent. The content 
and cover of the magazine were revised and evidence of further 
change will continue to appear. We have been grateful to our ad¬ 
vertisers for their support and intend to justify their confidence in 
future issues. 

Those of us responsible for Canadian Camping plan to proceed 
with caution until a little extravagance is justified by success. There 
are two things you can do to help. First, increase revenue and ad¬ 
vertising by obtaining new subscribers. Secondly, write an article, 
a comment or send photographs to the Editor to be included in the 
magazine. Either or both of these efforts on your part result in a 
good feeling with no extravagance necessary. 

Those of us associated with Canadian Camping believe in its 
value and future. Your comments and suggestions for improvement 
are, as always, welcome. 

Jocelyn Palm, Managing Director 


Des temps en temps un peu de plaisir resulte en faisant de follcs 
depenses, commc lorsqu’on depense plus d’argent en conge qu’on 
devrait. On revoit chaque monument, chaque evenement et chaquc 
nouveaute parce qu’on sail qu’il y aura longtemps avant que rc- 
vienne une opportunitc semblable. 

Ceux, d’entre vous, qui depuis longtemps sont dcs abonnes de 
Canadian Camping, savent que nous avons fait trop de folles de¬ 
penses. Dans les trois dernieres annecs, la revue a eu de plus en plus 
des problemes financiers, au point oil une portion non-acceptablc, 
de budget de I’A.C.C. fut consumee pour assurer seulement, que 
Canadian Camping alia sous presse. Par suite de cette situation lc 
conseil d’administration suspendit temporairement la publication de 
toutes revues commen^ant en fevricr 1974. 

Un corps expeditionnaire fut immediatement nomme pour con- 
siderer des moyens alternatifs de communiquer avec les Canadiens 
qui se sont interesses au camping du Canada. Ce groupe soumit son 
compte rendu en avril 1974 a I’assemblee du conseil d’administration 
de I’Association dcs Camps du Canada. Ceux qui furent engages, 
decidercnt que: (a) quelque forme de poste direct aux membres de 
I’A.C.C. fut essentiel, (b) un journal ou une production semblable, 
mais moins chere, ne se serviraient ni comme un instrument utile de 
reference pour les ecoles ct les personnels du camp, ni scraient 
seduisantc a la publicite, (c) a cause des valeurs des relations pub- 
liqucs, le format d’une revue doit etre retenu, si possible, (d) le con- 
tenu doit informer et apprendre, afin d’ameliorcr les directcurs et 
les personnels de camp dans toutes les provinces, (e) I’jnformation 
doit etre aussi bilinguc que possible et (f) la revue doit etre indepen- 
dante ct doit etre organisee d’une maniere plus professionnclle. 

Pour parvenir a ces fins, on a suggere que I ’edition de la revue de 
janvier doit etre une “Edition du Directeur’’ qui comprendrait, avec 
tout lc contenu editorial, une liste complete de tous les camps qui 
sont membres de I’A.C.C. dans chaque province. Cc concept fut 
designe a permettre a la revue un tirage plus grand, un formal plus 
seduisant a la publicite, un moycn plus efficace pour informer plus 
de parents, plus de groupes ecolicrs et plus d’educateurs, de quels 
camps existaient et, de la nature de ces camps pour les enfants. 

Le contenu propose pour la revue fut revise pour incorporcr les 
opportunites en camping pour toute I’annec et de comprendre les 
articles plus gencraux dans les editions a I’avcnir. Un effort concentre 
est recommandc pour obtenir de nouveaux abonnes cl les tarifs de 
publicite scront augmente en accordance avec la presente situation 
financiers. 

Le conseil d’administration de (’Association du Camping Cana- 
dien acceptcra lc rapport du corps expeditionnaire ct commencera 
a reorganiser Canadian Camping. Les nominations suivantes furent 
affermies: Administratricc gerante Jocelyn Palm; Redactricc Helen 
Stewart; Directricc du tirage Mary Pat Bradbury; Gcrant de Publi¬ 
cite Doug Dent; I ’Edition du Directeur- Peter Gilbert. L’edition du 
Directeur a etc acccptee par toutes les provinces et plus de 20,000 
copies scront mises en circulation comme la prochaine revue. Lc 
tirage normal a etc deja augmente dix pour cent. Le contenu et la 
couverture de la revue furent revises et I’evidencc d’autres change- 
ments continuera a apparaTtrc. 

Nous sommes tres reconnaissant a notre publicite de leur appui 
ct nous avons I’intention de justifier leur confiance dans les editions 
suivantes. 

Ceux qui sont responsables pour Canadian Camping, nous pro- 
posons d’agir avec prudence, jusqu’a quelque speculation est just if ice 
par le succes. II y a deux choses que vous pouvez faire pour nous 
aider. Prcmierement,augmentez le revenu et la publicite en obtenant 
les nouveaux abonnes. Deuxiemcment faites un article, un commen- 
taire ou envoyez des photos a la rcdactrice pour etre mis dans la 
revue. L’un ou I’autre, ou menic tous deux de ces efforts de votre 
part rendront du plaisir avec aucune folle depense. 

Ceux qui sont associes avec Canadian Camping croicnt en sa 
valcur ct en son avenir. Vos commcntaires, vos suggestions pour son 
amelioration sont, comme toujours, re^u avec plaisir. 

Jocelyn Palm, Administratrice gerante 


3 



camping the 

NORMAL WAY 

—by Roger Coles 

Former Director, Camp Belwood 


One must recognize the fact that most camping programs 
for the retarded should be based on the premise that 
campers are attending camp primarily to have fun. They 
are attending camp because their parents or guardians want 
them to have the satisfaction to learn and to enjoy all of 
the activities of camp which are enjoyed by normal children. 

Inherent in the camping program are activities which 
can and should provide opportunities for physical growth 
and development; for social adjustments; to learn new 
recreational activities; to develop new interests; self- 
discipline; cooperation; and to develop health and self-care 
habits. 

There are five basic objectives in a well-planned program 
in order to meet the needs of each retarded individual. 

Adjusting to Community Life & Community Services 

Behavioural habits of the retarded may best be learned 
through planned and directed camping experiences which 
can be repeated frequently on a day-to-day basis until they 
are mastered. Camp activities can be planned to teach 
discipline, social poise, grace, and formal behaviour. 
Examples of activities most often used in camp for pro¬ 
viding such experiences include campfire ceremonies, 
rhythmical games and dance, cabin living, mealtime, nature 
lore, camp vesper services, trips and tours, and sport 
activities. 

Adjusting to Family Life 

Camp living and camp activities provide daily experiences 
in self-care and personal health habits. 

Campers live in small groups with several counsellors. 
They learn to dress themselves, to tie their shoes, and pro¬ 
tect themselves from sun, insects and weather. 

The campers learn from the counsellors and they also 
learn by imitating one another. A wide variety of health 
habits and practices are taught through daily toilet training 
and bathing. Campers also learn skills and proper behaviour 
in outdoor recreational activities which enable them to 
participate in family outings, church attendance, shopping 
trips, and vacations. 

Social Growth & Development 

Camping provides the retarded with one of the most 
ideal laboratories for improving their social growth and 
development. Through enjoyable experiences as individuals, 
as partners, and as team members in free play and supervised 
activities, they are able to express their feelings and emo¬ 
tions. Some examples of camp activities which are best 
suited tor these purposes include sports and games, dance 
and music, cookouts, cabin living and swimming. Through 
these activities they learn such things as obedience to rules. 


cooperation and teamwork, fair play, respect for the success 
and attempts of others, sharing and aesthetic appreciations. 
These learning situations can be transferred and are essential 
to the retarded for better community and family adjust¬ 
ments. They are also essential as preparation for subsequent 
vocational training and formal education. 

Physical Growth and Development 

The poor physical condition of the retarded is primarily 
due to the lack of opportunities for adequate exercise and 
recreation. Most retarded children can develop physically 
far beyond the expectations of their parents and teachers. 

Some camp activities which stress physical development 
include hiking, floor hockey, relay races, baseball, soccer, 
tennis, judo, golf, games of low organization, tumbling and 
apparatus work. 



Worthy Use of Leisure Time 

Few people have more leisure than the retarded. It is 
unfortunate that most of their leisure is idle time. 

The objective of die camp program is to expose the 
retarded to a variety of skills and hobbies which they are 
capable of performing. 

In the arts and crafts program, these activities range 
from sandbox molds and painting to leather work and 
ceramics. 

In the nature lore program, these activities range from 
collecting and making things from pine cones, acorns, shells, 
beans, etc. to constructing a camp shelter, caring for pets 
and making a garden. 

In camp sports and games, the activities range from 
games of throwing and bouncing balls to ice skating, roller 
skating, archery, canoe tipping, floor hockey, and learning 
how to compete on a team. 


4 



A camp program should develop leisure skills and 
interests that the retarded may enjoy at home with the 
family. However, the main emphasis on leisure skills should 
be devoted to teaching activities which will make it possible 
for the retarded to participate in existing community 
programs. 

Camp Belwood for the mentally retarded, located in 
Behvood, Ontario, believes in and operates within these 
objectives. Originally a farm, Belwood was the first camp 
in Ontario, operated by the Ontario Association for the 
Mentally Retarded. Since the camp’s inception in 1956 
there have been many changes in programming for the 
retarded, including the idea of the small group orientated 
program for adults. Like other adults, the retarded get time 
off from jobs. They come to Belwood for a break from 
their daily routine, from their structured lives at the work¬ 
shop. They come as full persons-persons with the need of 
self-worth, the need to feel useful, the need of responsibility, 
the need for interaction with others. They come as self¬ 
entities with their own plans for their holidays, their own 
likes and dislikes. For five weeks in the summer Camp 
Belwood changes to Belwood Lodge where counsellors 
become resource staff and friends, and the idea of choice 
in activities becomes paramount for the adults. The Lodge 
is under the direction of the Lodge Council which is 
elected at the beginning of each session. 

A typical day consists of both activities and clubs. Some 
adults initially may need staff support in their decision¬ 
making as they feel overwhelmed by the variety of activities. 
However, soon all respond with eager anticipation to such 
activities as archery, bicycling, canoeing and boating, swim¬ 
ming, horseback riding, outdoor cooking, orienteering, 
trampoline activities, horseshoes, badminton, sketching, 
basketball, lawn bowling, shuffleboard, miniature golf, roller 
skating, ice skating, discussion groups, drama, hiking along 



0 




marked nature trails, trips to Stratford for a Shakespearean 
play, a visit to the Ontario Science Centre, or hiking along 
the Bruce Trail, or even relaxing under a spreading willow. 
Clubs include advanced cooking, outtripping, sewing, ad¬ 
vanced crafts, first aid, synchronized swimming, canoe 
tipping, newspaper, judo, 4-H with animal farm and garden 
program, baseball, slim and trim, creative dance, puppetry, 
and musical production. The club members generally work 
on major projects extending over several sessions, thereby 
allowing the adult to work towards a long-range goal as well 
as providing something to look forward to between sessions. 
The Lodge closes with the adults enjoying a snack, quiet 
table games, and reminiscing about the day with the choice 
of retiring for the evening when tired. 

The success of the retarded in becoming a respected and 
helpful member of the family and the community is con¬ 
tingent upon the opportunities afforded them in attaining 
these achievements. A good camping program enhances 
these opportunities. * 


--CLASSIFIED ADS- 

CAMPS FOR SALE & WANTED 

Camps in Muskoka-Haliburton for sale, completely equipped. 
Camps wanted in all areas. If you desire advice or assistance 
with regards to buying or selling, please contact me. No 
obligation. 

All enquiries treated with strictest confidence. 

Bert Danson (416) 752-6070 Young & Biggin Realtor 


WANTED 

Wanted to rent for months of July and August, a furnished 
lodge or large cottage or cottages to accommodate 20-25 
persons, children and adults. Property must be on or near a 
lake, safe for swimming and boating, and within 100 miles 
of Toronto. 

Sacred Heart Children's Village, 3275 St. Clair Ave. East 
Scarborough, Ontario- 


POSITION WANTED 

Experienced ex-Camp Director (female) seeks administrative 
position in camp — four to six weeks. 

Reply: Box 900, Canadian Camping 












Along the 







ALERT: AQUATIC SUPERVISION IN ACTION - by Jocelyn Palm 

A technical publication of The Royal Life Saving Society Canada 
550 Rue Church Street , Toronto , Ontario M4Y 2EI 
$5.95 plus 65tf mailing charge 
Ce fivre est disponible en franca is en decern bre 1974 

After careful perusal of this new book, it is our honest opinion it has a definite 
place on the bookshelf of every parent, school library and recreation department, 
as well as every camp director, swimming pool operator, lifeguard, swimming 
instructor and camp counsellor . . . indeed, anyone who is concerned with all 
aspects of water safety should regard this publication as a “must”. 

Well-written chapters, skilfully and excellenlly illustrated, cover such topics 
as . . . Swimming Pool Operation and Maintenance; Waterfront Design, Operation 
and Maintenance; Surf Conditions and Beach Operation; Recognition and Inter¬ 
pretation of an Emergency; Basic Lifeguarding Techniques; Rescue Procedures; 
Search Procedures and Specific Emergencies; First Aid for Aquatic Emergencies; 
Public Education; Public Relations; Program Operation and Administration; 
Liability for Swimming Accidents and Drownings; Regulations, Legislation and 
Good Sense; Case Studies; Off-Season and Unsupervised Use of Aquatic Areas; 
Intelligent use of the Natural Environment. These titles give a clear indication of 
the worth of "Alert: Aquatic Supervision in Action ”, the textbook of The 
National Lifeguard Service. 

Jocelyn Palm, as Executive Director of the Canadian National Branch of the 
Royal Life Saving Society, has put her years of experience and training into a 
first-rate production. 

Mary Jane Sanderson 

CANOEING AND KAYAKING by Wolf Ruck 
Published by McGraw-Hill Ryerson Ltd. ($5.95) 

This new book should be in every location where canoeing and kayaking are 
taught. At last, here is a text which goes beyond the basic elements of paddling 
and offers information for the experienced paddler. The basic material is included 
but even the expert can learn to improve his technique. 

With the increasing interest in the use of the Kayak for pleasure and com¬ 
petition, this book fills the need for more information. Both flat water and white 
water skills and techniques are presented with lull illustrations and photographs. 

Summer camps, outdoor education programs and schools are advised to obtain 
copies of this text. The author is himself an accomplished canoeist and a Canadian 
Olympic paddler. He leaves the reader enthusiastic to attempt skill development 
in both canoeing and kayaking. 

Jocelyn Palm 


CROSS COUNTRY SKIING - by Hans Brunner 

McGraw-Hill Co. of Canada, 330 Progress Ave., Scarborough, Ontario $4.95 
In a time when camping is giving leadership to outdoor experiences during the 
winter season, this volume is most appropriate. The publication originated in 
Europe, the mecca of cross country skiing, and has been admirably adapted by 
Wolfgang Ruck who is currently a senior staff member in a Canadian camp. 

The book is written for all levels of cross country skiing and has information 
on all of the significant elements for that winter activity. The topics included are 
equipment, technique, varied terrain adjustments, waxes and waxing, training and 
competitions. 

Sequence photographs and diagrams make the work easy to read and absorb. 
In all, it is a delightful presentation and highly recommended. 

Kirk Wipper 


w 

Did you set out to do some painting 
this fall but, on opening the can, found 
lumpy paint inside? Well, try this . . . 
you can easily strain the paint without 
pouring it from the can by cutting a 
circle from an old window screen 
slightly smaller than the can lid. Stir 
the paint and drop the screen into the 
can. As the screen settles, it will carry 
all the lumps to the bottom. 


Wonder how to remove sticky adhesive 
that price slickers leave on many 
things? Just cover the spot with cook¬ 
ing oil, let it stand for a few minutes 
then wipe it off. This removes the ad¬ 
hesive without scratching the surface. 
The same method can be used to re¬ 
move marks left on floors or furniture 
from gummed tape. 


This problem has often befuddled us 
but we think we’ve discovered the 
solution. ... If rust stains accumulate 
in the bottom of a glass vase, pour full 
strength ammonia into the vase and 
leave it to soak overnight. If the stains 
are not completely gone next morning, 
repeat the treatment. 


Now that the winter weather is just 
around the corner, do you know that 
salt rings can easily be removed from 
snow boots by brushing them with 
vinegar and cold water? 


Don’t discard that old sponge just yet, 
especially if you’re a plant lover! First 
boil the sponge to sterilize it then cut 
into pieces about the same size as the 
bottom of the flower pot. Insert in the 
pot and use instead of rocks or gravel 
for absorbing the moisture. 


You can most easily remove animal 
hairs from dark suits, coats and dresses 
by wrapping a length of masking tape 
around your hand (sticky side out) and 
brushing over the entire garment. The 
animal hair and lint will stick to the 
tape. This method is also good for 
cleaning upholstery in your car after 
your pet has had a ride. 


cont ’d on page 8 



6 
















CHURCH CAMPING 


.ptittiRiBles 


—by the Rev. Morley G. Clarke, M.A., Th.M. 

Program Officer , London Conference Staff 


In February of this year the Camping Committee of the 
Hamilton-London Synod of the Presbyterian Church invited 
me to share with them in a weekend consultation and speak 
to them on the subject “The Future of Church Camping”. 

In response to this request, I decided to present my 
material in the form of a learning game rather than an 
address. I wrote to several of my experienced camping 
friends, asking them to share with me their hopes and 
dreams about the future possibilities for Church Camping. 

I then collated these ideas, added some of my own. and 
prepared a set of sixteen 4 x 6 cards, each containing a 
“futurible” in outline. 

There arc many ways the game can be played. What 1 
did was to divide the group into sub-groups of 4 people; 
with eight such groups 1 used two sets of the cards, so that 
each person had a card. I guided the process, using a music 
timer, allowing four minutes for the discussion of each card 
in turn. 

When this step was finished, I had a few minutes of open 
forum with the total group, for clarification and sharing. 

The next step was to hand out a blank 4x6 card to each 
person, and give them 5 minutes to write down their own 
futurible for Church Camping. These were then shared with 
the use of the timer in the same manner as the original cards. 

This last step could be pursued with helping a group to 
identify their long-range camping goals, and begin some 
realistic planning for the future. 

Here are the sixteen futuribles. Use them to make your 
own set(s) of cards. Have fun as you plan your future in 
camping! 

1. Specialized one-week family camping 

with flexible accommodations, e.g., cabins, tents, 
trailers, with separate programming for different 
age groups; 

also “family cluster” groupings; 

—optional programming available to enrich program 
already planned by each family; low-keyed and 
relaxed, but richer in options than average com¬ 
mercial or provincial park; 

— adult facilitator and counsellors. 

2. “Drop-In Family Camping” 

i.e., families with tents and trailers coming and 
staying as many days as they wish, with program 
offered on an “a la carte” basis: hikes and rambles; 
low-keyed resource centre with creative activity 
materials; a “house of art” for wood-working, 
pottery, batik, weaving, etc. 

3. More use of campsite by Sunday Church School and 
Weekday C.E. Groups 

—e.g., day-long activities, overnites, weekends, etc. 
-Local Churches see camping as an integral dimen¬ 
sion of their Christian nurture program. 


4. Legislation may force some camps to close down 
because of exorbitant costs 
e.g.. full taxation 

minimum wage requirements for all leaders, 
including Counsellors 

unattainable accommodation requirements 
unattainable acreage standards 
school boards may buy up some of our Church 
Camps to use for outdoor education programs; 
Churches may rent them back as needed, 
v 1 

)jk^High adventure camping for teens and adults 
wilderness 
survival 

long distance e.g.. youth-hostelling across Canada, 
the Yukon, Europe, South America, etc. 
camps modelled after “Outward Bound” 

“Language immersion camps” in Quebec and/or 
foreign countries. 

6. Public tent & trailer campsites and parks 

may move deeply into offering full-scale program¬ 
ming for families, children, youth, and adults, 
would this be a threat or an opportunity for the 
Church? 

7. Development of Highly Specialized Church Camps 

focussing upon such specialities as sailing; ranch; 
canoeing; cycling; horse-back trail camping; back 
packing on the Bruce Trail; music (vocal and instru¬ 
mental): marriage enrichment; parent effectiveness 
training: transactional analysis training; introduc¬ 
tion to charismatic Christianity; study of ecology 
and environment; acclimatization; senior citizens; 
one-parent families; disabled persons; rehabilitation 
for alcoholics, drug addicts; recovery for mentally 
ill: values clarification camps; etc. 

8. Co-operation among Church Camps, Agency Camps, 
Private Camps in such areas as; 

—specialization (each Camp offering different 
speciality) 

— joint counsellor training 

— use of each other’s facilities for out-tripping 
overnites 

there are 15 camps between Sarnia and K in tail 
exchange of Campers; exchange of counsellors 
joint purchasing of food, supplies and equipment 
consultation re camping facilities needed in the area 
consolidation of less effective camps (facility and 
program) into a larger, more successful operation 
—exchange of camping units for summer camping. 

9. Top-notch leadership development through: 

sharing resource leadership personnel 


7 


—help from Community Colleges who are glad to 
provide training in camping skills 
—churches concentrate on training directly geared 
to the goals of the church e.g., skills in human 
relations, building Christian community, relating 
Biblical .and Theological insights to life, viewing 
man and nature from the perspective of Christian 
faith. 

10. Developing of Campsites for year-round use 

—winterization 

—employment of year-round full-time Camp Director 
—development of winter camping, using skidooing, 
cross-country skiing, snowshoeing, etc. 

—use of winterized facilities for retreats, workshops, 
conferences, seminars, communicant’s classes, 
leadership training, growth groups, winter family 
camps, etc. 

11. Camping without camps 

—campers gather in any convenient church hall for 
total camp fellowship and unit orientation 
—each unit plans and preoares to move out e.g., 
canoe unit, cycling unit, bus unit, back-packing 
unit using conservation areas, Provincial Parks, 
churches, church campsites, etc. for ovemites 
—after agreed-upon number of days, units return to 
church where they first assembled, for sharing, 
evaluation, worship. 

12. Camps at Special times 

—end-of-summer camps for working teens 
—(early September) camps for working University 
students 

—(early May) camps for working University students 
—Christmas holiday and Mid-winter break camps for 
High-school students 

—long holiday weekendsf 24th May and Thanksgiving) 
for inter-generational camps (senior teens, young 
adults, adults). 


13. Special ministries to families using Public Parks 

—paid theological student to co-ordinate local youth 
team to provide children’s program, family camp¬ 
fires. nature hikes, Sunday worship services, etc. 

—student and team to be supported and supervised 
by adult group representative of churches in the 
area. 

14. Provide Camping Families with: 

—list of Church Camps across the country where 
they can camp overnite or longer 
give description of sites, facilities offered, program 
options, cost per day; name, address, phone num¬ 
ber of contact person(s) 

—resource materials (or sources for them) in such 
areas as Daily Devotional Guide for Campers; list 
of good library' books for reading aloud in a family; 
family campfire suggestions; tips for outdoor cook¬ 
ing, etc. 

15. Take a group to a farm for a week 

— for children and teens from urban area 

—working with the earth; exploring eco-systems, 
studying symbiotic relationships; smelling, feeling, 
appreciating, working with the good earth 
Bible Study and worship appropriate to setting and 
discoveries 

- use farmer and his family as resource people. 

16. Family vacation model for low income families 

—camp uses not only its own grounds but also 
nearby parks, towns, farms, recreational centres, 
historic sites, etc. 

—children’s camp operated with as much or as little 
participation by parents as fits family needs; tours 
during the day; in-family and inter-family sharing 
in evening, with help of skilled facilitator 

—Swedish idea of “exercise course” around the 
campsite would be a valuable addition. 



Tips continued 

When some material ha^s become 
wedged tightly in a zipper and it is 
impossible to move the slide fastener 
up and down, try rubbing soap on the 
stuck zipper, not only on the slide but 
on both sides of it. The wedged-in 
material will usually come loose in a 
jiffy. 


With the price of meat nowadays, you 
can save when you know more about 
meat. . . Buy big on specials — package 
extra ground beef in convenient por¬ 
tion-size packets with freezer wrap. . . 


buy two roasts, wrap and freeze one to 
use later. * Oops - forgot to thaw? — 
no worry, cook roast frozen ... in¬ 
crease cooking time by half that re¬ 
quired for fresh. . . broil or pan broil 
frozen steaks too. . . juicy delicious 
results. * T-bone taste, pot roast bud¬ 
get? — broil or barbeque chuck, top 
round, sirloin tip or flank steak . .. 
medium rare for most tender results. .. 
marinate or not. * Mais oui, fondue — 
use sirloin tip or round steak for fondue 
cubes instead of sirloin. . . sear quickly 
in hot vegetable oil and dip in Hunt’s 
Manwich Sandwich Sauce heated with 
a dash of hot pepper sauce. ★ Ground 


beef know-how — regular ground beef 
is high in flavour and tenderness. . . 
drain the excess fat during cooking if 
the recipe calls for it, but remember, 
some fat adds flavour and juiciness 
especially in broiled patties. * How 
much to buy — meat with no bone or 
fat (like ground beef) ... 1 pound for 
4 or 5 servings — meat with little bone 
or fat (like a round steak) ... 1 pound 
for 3 to 4 servings — meat with medium 
bone or fat (like a chuck roast) . . . 

1 pound for 2 to 3 servings — meat 
with a large amount of bone or fat 
(like spare ribs) ... 1 pound for 1 to 

2 servings. ★ 


8 









QL<g>. 


enses 


THE TEMPLE BEAUTIFUL 

Enter the Temple Beautiful, 

The house not made with hands. 
Rain-washed and green, 

Wind-swept and clean 
Beneath the blue it stands; 

And no cathedral anywhere 
Seemeth so holy or so fair. 

It hath no heavy gabled roof\ 

No door with lock and key; 

No window bars 
Shut out the stars , 

Its aisles are wide and free. 

Here through the night each altar light 
Is but a moonbeam silver white. 

Silently as the temple grew 
At Solomon's command, 

Still as things seem 

Within a dream 

This rose from out the land , 

And all the pillars grey and high 
Lifted their arches to the skv. 


Photo courtesy Camp Wahcahmie 



And all the golden gloom of it 
Holdeth no haunting fear, 

For it is blest and giveth rest 
To those who enter here. 

Here iti the evening who shall know 
But God, Himself, walks to and fro. 


Here in the perfume of the leaves , 
The incense of the pines , 

The magic scent 
That has been pent 
Within the tangled vines. 

No censor filled with spices rare , 

E'er swung such sweettiess on the air. 


And music past all mastering 
Within the chancel rings. 

None could desire 
A sweeter choir 

Thati that which soars and sings 
Till far the scented shadows creep 
And quiet darkness bringeth sleep. 


Virna Sheard 




i 


A CAMPER’S REST HOUR 


This is your hour a time to rest 
'Neath roof, or tree, or sky. 

A precious hour, your very own, 

A chance to close an eye. 

Or you might watch the beauty 
Of a lovely summer day 
Gazing at a blue-draped hill 
Or at a shining bay. 


Or dream! Go off to Anywhere 
and look at wondrous things. 
Relax and perhaps you'll venture far 
On Fancy's magic wings. 

So take your hour and value it; 

For one short space be still. 

Let the beauty of the world 
Your soul with beauty fill. 

— Mary S. Ddgar 


Editor’s Note: It is hoped that this column will be a regular item in ”Canadian Camping”. The purpose of it is to print some story, poem, 
inspirational thought, etc. which can be read around the campfire, in chapel, morning prayers or in silent contemplation. If you have some 
writings you would like to share with our readers, please forward them to the Editor. 


9 


THE SUMMER SKY • THE WINTER SKY 

Looking SOUTH ___ Looking SOUTH 



THE WINTER SKY THE SUMMER SKY 

Looking NORTH Looking NORTH 













At? Astreporpical 


Adventure 


—by J.A. Craig 

Boy Scouts of Canada 


Look! Up in the sky! Is it a plane? Is it a satellite? 
No, it’s Orion, Ursa Major, Cygnus, Pegasus or any of the 
other 84 constellations, twinkling in the sky as they have 
done since our universe was born. 

Astronomy (the science of the stars and other heavenly 
bodies) is one of man’s oldest sciences and has affected 
man’s beliefs and ways of life since time began. Ancient 
peoples wondered what stars were and marvelled at their 
order and constant movements across the night sky. They 
worshipped them, envisioned the shapes of animals and 
birds in their ordered appearance, and gave the ultimate 
honour to their legendary heroes of placing them in the 
sky and naming stars after them. For eons the simple 
evidence of his eyes was all man knew of the heavens above 
him. 

Learned men, in their search for knowledge, studied the 
heavens and asked: What are stars? What makes them 
shine? How far away are they? How big are they? Do they 
rotate or does the earth rotate? The Greco-Egyptian 
Ptolemy evolved a rational theory of earth, sun and stars 
which was accepted for hundreds of years until Copernicus 
questioned it with a theory of his own. Galileo’s mighty 
telescope proved Ptolemy wrong. Later scientists — Brahe, 
Kepler, Newton — gradually evolved a lucid explanation of 
the behaviour of the stars and the solar system. 

Man still strives to advance his knowledge and under¬ 
standing of the heavens. Each landing on the moon or 
satellite orbiting a planet adds a bit here and a bit there to 
our storehouse of knowledge, or confirms or denies some 
scientific data that are known or suspected. 

And so, a science as old as man himself has leaped back 
into prominence and importance as mankind rockets into 
the Space Age. 

You can introduce the fascinating world of astronomy 
to your campers through a little reading and observation 
on your part. 

• Learn the basic constellations from the charts of the 
summer and winter skies, looking both North and South. 
There are quite a number, so start with one or two of the 
better-known constellations and build on this. 

• Take your star chart outside on a clear evening and see 
how many of the constellations you can find and 
identify. 

• Check your local newspaper. Many publish an astronomy 
column, showing local star charts, times of rising and 
setting of the planets and facts about eclipses and space 
events. 

• Stimulate interest in your camp by asking your campers 
if they saw the latest moon shot or the pictures taken by 
orbiting satellites. 


Reprinted with permission of “The Canadian Leader” Magazine 


• Introduce star games during game periods at camp 
where city lights won’t interfere with good observations. 

• Suggest to your campers that they make some of the 
items listed under GADGETS YOU CAN MAKE. 

• Visits and tours of observatories or planetariums are 
fascinating and arouse interest in further knowledge of 
astronomy. 

GADGETS YOU CAN MAKE 

MAKE A “ STARSCOPE ” 

Cut out the base of a plastic bleach bottle. One-half 
inch above the base, cut a slot about three quarters of the 
way through the bottle. A series of cards on which the 
patterns of constellations have been pricked out can then 
be inserted in the slot. The shape of the constellation can 
be seen by looking down the neck of the bottle while it is 
held toward a light. 



or OATMEAL BOX CONSTELLATIONS 
or use OLD SLIDES 


UMBRELLA SKY 

Use the inside of an umbrella and paste cut-out star- 
shapes in the appropriate locations. The North Star is at the 
point where the handle joins the cover of the umbrella. The 
umbrella can be rotated, counter-clockwise, to show star 
movement. 






THE GENIUS-GALILEO 

Astronauts of today, as they rocket away from Mother 
Earth to great achievements in space travel, are using laws 
of science that were first discovered, proven and given 
meaning by a genius who lived over 400 years ago Galileo 
Galilei, born 1564, died 1642. 

His explanation of the laws of motion, acceleration and 
gravity are just as valid today as when he wrote them in his 
book, ‘‘Dialogues on the Two New Sciences”. Fifty years 
after the publication of this book, using Galileo’s book as a 
basis. Sir Isaac Newton developed his famous three laws of 
motion. He was born the year Galileo died and lived at a 
time when he could benefit from the outstanding research 
Galileo had done. 

As a youth in Pisa, his birthplace and the site of the 
famed Leaning Tower, Galileo earned the nickname of 
“The Wrangler” because he disputed everything. His in¬ 
quisitive mind challenged the statements of the learned 
men of his day and he asked, “Why?” 

At the age of 20 while in the Cathedral of Pisa he 
noticed the regular swinging of a huge chandelier. Checking 
the time of each swing against his own pulse, he discovered 
the chandelier took the same number of pulse beats in 
each swing even though the length of the swing was shorter 
each time. This set Galileo to thinking. At home he set 
different weights swinging and timed their motion. These 
observations led him to formulate the laws of the pendulum. 

Five years later, his searching mind set him to dropping 
different weights from various heights. His searching paid 
off and he proved that gravity acts on all objects alike, 
regardless of their shape, size or density. This was in direct 
opposition to the teachings of the famous Aristotle, which 
said that different falling bodies moved at different speeds. 
Galileo certainly wasn’t very popular in his day but, despite 
the ridicule heaped on him, he carried on staunchly in his 
search for reasons and truth. By this direct observation, 
Galileo started the methods of experimental research that 
would one day release the power of the atom and lead to 
man’s conquest of space. 

Galileo then gave up the study of medicine and devoted 
his life to other sciences; but he didn’t abandon his ques¬ 
tioning of age-old theories. 

Turning to the heavens with the newly invented tele¬ 
scope in 1610, Galileo discovered the craters and mountains 
on the moon; proved the Milky Way was a mass of uncount¬ 
able stars; found that Venus went through phases as the 
moon does; discovered four moons orbiting Jupiter; and 
was first to reason the sun turned on its axis by observing 
the dark spots on its'surface. We know these spots as 
gigantic storms in the sun’s atmosphere and call them sun 
spots. 

Fascinated by the group of stars in Taurus known as the 
Pleiades (Ply-a-dees), or the Seven Sisters as only seven 
stars were visible to the naked eye. Galileo turned his 
crude instrument on this group and discovered this unique 
star group was made up of 36 stars. 

Galileo’s discoveries did much to reinforce and prove the 
theories of Copernicus who was the first scientist to chal¬ 
lenge the theory of Ptolemy who had stated the earth was 
the centre of the universe and all other planets revolved 
around it. 

Denounced as a heretic and slowly becoming blind, 
Galileo still insisted his theories were correct until his 
death in 1642. 


A monument to this great scientist and searcher for 
truth stands in the Church of Santa Croce in Florence, Italy. 

INTEREST AROUSERS 

THE EYE TEST 

Arabs used the stars to test their eyesight. 

The centre star in the handle of the Big Dipper is really 
two stars. A small star to the left of and slightly above the 
main star. The Arabs called them Mizar (Horse) and Alcor 
(Rider). The Arabs also had another name for the “rider” - 
Saidak - or “the test”. See if you can spot them. Try it 
on your campers. 

FIND THE CEPHEII) 

From the Big Dipper sight onto the North Star, through 
it to the constellation Cepheus which is shaped like a 
house. 



One of its stars changes brightness in a regular four-day 
cycle because it pulsates and alternately grows larger, then 
contracts again. Since this first pulsating star was discovered 
in the constellation Cepheus, all pulsating stars are now 
called Cepheids. Can you find it? 

COLOUR IN THE SKY 

Not all our heavenly friends twinkle with white light. 
Even with the naked eye, the distinctive colour of some 
stars can be seen. 

Look for — Vega in Lyra: bluish-white 

—Arcturus in Bootes: golden yellow 
— Capella in Auriga: yellowish 
— Spica in Virgo: pure white 

- Antares in Scorpius: distinct red 

- Aldebaran in Taurus: reddish (a winter star) 
Stars, like iron when it is heated, glow with different 
colours, depending on their temperature. 

TAKE A SHINE TO THESE 

There are about 20 stars that can be classed in the first 
magnitude as far as brightness goes. Only 14 of these 
dazzlers are visible in the northern hemisphere. During the 
summer, in order of brightness, they are: 

Arcturus, *Capella, *Vega, Antares, Altair, Spica, 
*Pollox and Regulus. 

("“Summer and winter stars) 

ALGOL - THE DEMON 

Another fascinating star is Algol in the constellation 
Perseus. At its brightest, Algol is a star of the second 
magnitude (about the magnitude of the stars in the Big 
Dipper). It remains bright for 2Vi days, then it fades for 
4Vi hours — and becomes an inconspicuous fourth magni¬ 
tude star, which it remains for a few minutes only. Its 
increase in brightness also takes 4Vi hours after which 
the cycle begins again. The interval between times of 
minimum brightness is 2 days, 20 hours and 49 minutes. 


12 


A dark companion revolving around Algol causes these 
partial eclipses of its light. 

• _ • 

\ / 

\ / 


CASSIOPEIA 


\ 


\ 


\ 


\ 


\ 


' ALGOL 






\ / 
\ / 






THE GREAT NEBULA IN ORION 

This is only one of the many beauties exhibited by this 
magnificent star group which dazzles the fall and winter 
sky. No other constellation contains so many bright stars. 
Look for the nebula with field glasses about half way 
down the row of stars which hangs like a sword from the 
famous “belt of Orion”. Even field glasses will show you 
faint stars in the nebula. 



THE PLEIADES (Ply-a-dees) 

Commonly called the Seven Sisters, Galileo discovered 
36 stars with his telescope, but the naked eye normally 
sees only seven. Powerful field glasses will help you see 
more than the Seven Sisters. Found high in the eastern sky 
in December and equally high in the southern sky in 
January. Look for them to the right and above Taurus, 
the Bull. 


TAURUS 


THE PLANETS 

To help your campers learn the names of the planets in 
order outward from the sun, teach them this fun sentence. 

MEN VERY EARLY MADE 

(Mercury) (Venus) (Earth) (Mars) 

JARS STAND UPRIGHT NEARLY 

(Jupiter) (Saturn) (Uranus) (Neptune) 

PERPENDICULAR 
(Pluto) 

GAMES TO STAR AT 

CONSTELLA TION RELA Y 

(Thanks to Florence Pearce, Claremont, Ontario) 

Cut out a half-moon cardboard disc for each team 
playing. Drawn on this disc is the map of the northern 
summer sky. Cards arc placed on the floor, 10 to 20 feet 
in front of each team. 

Teams are given a supply of small, plastic discs, beans or 
other small objects to place on the cardboard disc. Run as a 
relay, each player runs up and covers one star on a desig¬ 
nated constellation. First team finished wins. As skill 
develops, several constellations can be designated each 
time. 

This relay teaches recognition of the constellations, 
their names, makeup and position. As proficiency develops, 
cards can be discarded as teams will remember where the 
constellations are and their shapes. 

STAR FLASH 

Punch out the shapes of the main constellations on 
cardboard. Mark them in some way so you can tell in the 
dark what constellation is on each card (number of slots, 
luminous tape) or have them in a definite order. Darken the 
room. Hold cards on a table in front of a strong light that 
can be flashed on and off (a flashlight is ideal) and project 
onto a wall. Ask the group, a team or an individual to 
identify the constellation. Points are awarded for a correct 
answer or deducted for a wrong answer. 

To introduce variety, vary the sequence or order; ask for 
the common name or the historical name of the constella¬ 
tion; or ask for the name of a specific star in a constellation. 

STYROFOAM SKY 

Each player (or team) is given a square of styrofoam, 
painted a distinctive colour and through which ordinary 
pins have been pushed. Heavy cardboard, cork or any other 
suitable material may be used. 

When a constellation is named, each player (or team) 
must push the star cutouts into the board in the correct 
position, run outside with the board and verify if all the 
stars are in the right position and report back the position 
of the constellation in the sky. (Low, in the East; overhead 
in the South, etc.). 

Points given are based on speed and correctness of the 
stars positioned on the board. 


• • • 
••• 

PLEIADES 

/ 

/ 

/ 


ALDEBARAN 


'V j 


13 



You better make sure it’s a clear night; the constella¬ 
tions you name are visible and know their relative position 
in the sky at that time. 

As skill develops, two or more constellations can be 
named and points given for correctness of positioning in 
relation to one another. 

CONSTELLA TION PANTOMIME 

Teams are each secretly assigned a constellation from 
which they must pantomime its common name. 

All teams are given two or three minutes to prepare and 
decide whether they will do it as a group or elect one of 
their members. 

Other teams observe and points are given for the first 
correct answer. 

Examples: 

Aquila The Eagle 
Auriga - The Charioteer 
Bootes - The Herdsman 
Canis Major The Great Dog 
Canis Minor The Little Dog 
Draco The Dragon 
Orion — The 1 iun ter 
Ursa Minor The Little Bear 
Ursa Major The Great Bear 
Cassiopeia The Lady in the Chair 
Cygnus The Swan 
Serpens - The Serpent 

This is an excellent introduction to getting to know the 
constellations and pantomime. 

GROUNDS!MET GAME 

Best done on a clear night away from other distracting 
sources of light. At camp is an ideal time. 

Each player has a groundsheet and a flashlight. All 
players lie on ground on their groundsheets, flashlight out, 
but at the ready. Everyone should be facing the same 
direction. 

Ask individuals or teams to outline shape of a named 
constellation with the beam of their flashlight. Or, call out 
name of a star and ask a player to point it out with the 
flashlight. 

Variety can be introduced by asking “Name and outline 
the constellation shaped like a . .. or “Name and outline 
the constellation with the giant red star in the top, left 
corner.” (Orion) 

BOOKS ON ASTRONOMY 

ASTRONOMY SIMPLY EXPLAINED FOR BEGINNERS 
by Fred W. Murray; Brown, Son and Ferguson Limited, 
52 Darnley Street, Glasgow, Scotland. 

DISCO VER THE ST A RS 

by Gaylord Johnson & Irving Adler; Sentinel Book 
Publishers, Inc., 112 East 19th St., New York 3, N.Y. 
THE SUN AND ITS TAMIL Y 

by Irving Adler; Signet Science Book, 501 Madison Ave., 
New York 22, N.Y. 

THIS IS OUTER SPACE 

by Lloyd Motz; Signet Science Book, as above. 

NEW HANDBOOK OF THE HE A VENS 

by Bernhard, Bennett and Rice; Signet Science Book, 
previously listed. 


FIELD GUIDE TO THE STARS AND PLANETS 

by Donald II. Menzel: The Riverside Press, Cambridge, 
Mass. 

MAPPING THE MOON Pamphlet, Queen’s Printer (now 
Information Canada), Ottawa, Ontario. 

THE MOON GOLDEN LI BRA R Y OF KNO WLEDGE 
Golden Press Inc.. Rockefeller Center,New York 20,N.Y. 
A TLAS OF THE UNIVERSE 

by Patrick Moore; Rand McNally & Company. 

The first 21 pages of the Canadian Almanac and Directory 
contain a wealth of information on Astronomy in Canada 
including Solar and Lunar Tables and Quarterly Star Maps. 

OBSERVATORIES IN CANADA 
Dominion Astrophysical Observatory 
near Victoria, B.C. 

Dominion Radio Astrophysical Observatory 
near Penticton, B.C. 

David Dunlap Observatory (University of Toronto) 
Richmond Hill, Out. 

University of Western Ontario, on campus; the Hume 
Cronyn Observatory another 15 miles north of 
London, Ont. 

Queen's University, Kingston, Ont. 

York University, Toronto research telescopes. 

University of Waterloo, Waterloo, Ont. research teles¬ 
copes. 

Spring Hill Observatory, near Ottawa, Ontario. 

Algonquin Radio Observatory, Lake Traverse, Algonquin 
Park, Ont. 

Dominion Observatory, Ottawa, Ontario. 

Centres of the Royal Astronomical Society; Montreal, Que., 
and Winnipeg, Man. 

University of Saskatchewan Observatory, Saskatoon. 

THE ROYAL ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY IN CANADA 
National Headquarters, 252 College St., Toronto, Ontario. 
Centres are maintained at St. John's, Nfld.; Quebec City, 
Montreal and Centre d'Astronomic de Montreal; Ottawa, 
Kingston, Toronto, Hamilton, Niagara Falls, London and 
Windsor, Ont.; Winnipeg, Man.; Saskatoon, Sask.; Edmon¬ 
ton, Calgary, Alta.; Vancouver and Victoria, B.C. 

PLANETARIUMS IN CANADA 
VANCOUVER 
H.R. MacMillan Planetarium 
1100 Chestnut St., Vanier Park 
CALGARY 

Calgary Centennial Planetarium 

7th Avenue and 1 1 th Street Southwest 

EDMONTON 

Queen Elizabeth Planetarium 

13831 — 114 Avenue, Coronation Park 

WINNIPEG 

Manitoba Museum of Man and Nature Planetarium 

Main and Rupert Streets 

TORONTO 

McLaughlin Planetarium, Royal Ontario Museum 

100 Queen’s Park 

MONTREAL 

Dow Planetarium 

1000 St. James St. West 


14 


things go better with... 

GOOD PUBLIC RELATIONS 

—by Robert P. Attfield 



Almost everyone has an inkling of what public relations 
is all about. After all, you don’t have to be a P.R. man to 
feel your hackles rise when you come home loaded with 
groceries and some unthinking person ahead lets the apart¬ 
ment door slam in your face. Nor is it necessary to study 
Public Relations at university to discover the pleasure that 
comes when a thoughtful motorist stops to wave you 
through a left-hand turn during rush hour. Whole libraries 
could exist on material devoted to public relations. Its 
importance boggles the imagination. 

To try to present a complete overview of camping P.R. 
in a brief article would be impossible. I have attempted to 
condense a mountain into a molehill by listing a few items 
which may serve as helpful reminders. 

Despite the negative images that may be conjured up by 
the initials P.R., public relations, in its truest form, is not 
meaningless sham designed to benefit its source. Rather, it 
is the oil that lubricates the machinery of human endeavour 
and interaction. It is born out of a love and concern for 
one’s fellow man. Without it, cooperation dies still-born. 
In this sense, every good camp has a moral obligation to 
ensure that year by year its public relations efforts are at 
least sufficient to entice the participation of youngsters 
who will benefit from camping. 

Section One: For Counsellors 

Trips and Outings: 

Outings rate as a top priority for camping personnel who 
care about public relations. A point for consideration in¬ 
cludes the group’s appearance when you leave camp. No 
matter how grubby you look when you return, it pays to 
set out from camp suitably and thoughtfully dressed for the 
trip. Campers fitted out like hobos for a canoe excursion 
wont feel like voyageurs, and may give the impression that 
they come from a shoddy camp. 

Your contact with the public on any trip can make or 
break you. The local store owner, in particular, acts as a 
barometer of good or bad will. If your campers are courteous 
and mannerly, chalk up one point for public relations. A 
noisy, pushy gang of little troublemakers, on the other 
hand, stealing candy and swearing, may cost you the privi¬ 
lege of using the store. Naturally, rules of common courtesy 
apply when travelling through any populated area, carnival 
grounds, regatta area, etc. Do you ask for permission to 
cross private land? If you don’t, you may be told-in no 
uncertain terms! Trips probably carry more public relations 
responsibility for the counsellor than any other camp 
activity. 

Days Off: 

At last, your day off has arrived. You and your buddies 
decide to head for town, wearing camp T-shirts. The hitch¬ 


hiking is rough, so one of your group stands by the roadside, 
thumb poised in true hiker fashion, while the rest of you 
duck behind a handy bush. When the first car stops, you 
jump out from behind the bush and try to weasle your way 
in. Deduct two points from your public relations score. 
You may get a ride to town, but you’ll never see the son or 
daughter of the driver in your camp. 

Once in town, your behaviour, good or bad, will play a 
role in determining public attitude toward your camp. 

If you decide to visit a neighbouring camp on your day 
off, it is a courteous gesture to write or telephone ahead to 
clear the way. 

Camper Letters 

Your camp may or may not have a policy concerning 
writing camper letters home to parents. Fathers and 
mothers very often set great store by what is said or written 
about their children. You may congratulate yourself one 
day for taking the trouble to write a detailed, objective 
letter home to parents. They will certainly appreciate it. 
They will also appreciate hearing from their own son or 
daughter! Wise is the counsellor who insists that each 
camper write home at least once a week. 

Visitors' Day 

How do you feel about yourself? Whatever you feel will 
be reflected in the way you treat visitors and parents on 
Visitors’ Day. A warm word or welcoming smile can go a 
long way. If you are interested in them and their children, 
they will know. 

Camp Reunion 

Even if you are not planning to return to camp as a 
counsellor, your past year's campers will take great delight 
in seeing you. Some of the most disappointed faces ever 
recorded could come from youngsters who have just learned 
that their counsellor will not be attending the camp reunion. 
Remembrances 

Children like to think that they are important enough 
to be remembered. How thoughtful is the counsellor who 
takes the trouble to send Christmas cards to his campers, or 
a birthday greeting, as the occasion arises. 

Section Two: For Directors 

Pre-Camp Planning 

Let's suppose tor a moment that you are a parent. What 
is it that attracts or repels you in selecting a suitable camp 
for your child? Chances are that apart from a triend's 
description, the first piece of information that you will 
receive from a camp is its brochure. You may have tele¬ 
phoned or written for one, and will probably be pleased if 
it arrives soon after you have requested it. If it doesn’t, 
you may have contacted other camps in the meantime. 


15 




You may appreciate the brochure a little more if it includes 
a personal letter, or at least a personal note. What informa¬ 
tion does the brochure contain and how is it laid out? Is it 
a super slick P.R. job? Does it give you all the necessar> 


information you require such as: 

■ director's qualifications 

■ camp philosophy 

■ camp location and physical ■ 

structure 

■ number and sex of campers ■ 

accommodated 

■ religious or other ties 

■ number and qualifications 

of staff 

■ fee scale 

■ activities offered 


length of camping 
periods 

transportation routes and 
arrangements 
information on com¬ 
munications 
nearby lodging and 
visitors' day 

description of meals and 
camp policies 
a guide to clothing and 
weather conditions 


As a parent you will probably be interested in all these 
things. The brochure itself may appeal to you if it is well 
printed on good quality paper, carefully laid out and com¬ 
plemented by stimulating photographs. 

Suppose, once again, that on the recommendation of 
your friend, and discussion with your child after reading 
the brochure, you decide to mail the application form back 
with your deposit. How would you feel if the director 
wrote or called within a week, thanking you and asking if 
it would be possible to meet you and your family? Probably 
pretty good! You might also be pleased if he or she arrived 
with movies, slides or photographs of the camp, as well as 
the camper questionnaire requesting information on the 
camper's likes, dislikes, medical necessities, and other rele¬ 
vant information. The “piece de resistance'’ confirming 
your wise camp selection might come about three weeks 
before camp opened, in the form of a letter describing the 
camp’s new archery range, and containing a list of returning 
and new counsellors and campers. 

Transportation and Arrival Day 

Most camps make accommodation for a chartered bus to 
transport youngsters to camp. It is imperative that a) the 
date, time and location of pickup be made perfectly clear, 
and b) the bus company selected is reliable. One or two 
counsellors travelling on the vehicle will ensure that be¬ 
haviour is kept within reasonable limits and will help to 
quieten edgy campers as well as manage any “travel-sick" 
problems. 

No matter how many times it has been repeated, the 
lumbering of the bus through the camp gates on opening 
day is liable to produce the same excitement and anxiety 
that has been produceddn every other year gone by. There 
appears to be two approaches taken by directors as regards 
disembarking: a) the charge-of-the-light-brigadc method, 
characterized chiefly by pandemonium and hysteria, and b) 
the let's-take-it-easy approach, where each camper is intro¬ 
duced while leaving the bus, and directed to whoever is 
responsible for him. Of the two techniques, the second 
appears to be the less exciting but more popular, especially 
with new campers. One other point worth mentioning is 
parking. For those who arrive via private automobile, a lack 
of proper parking facilities may add to the frustration 
engendered by the often long hot drive to camp. 


Involvement during Camp 

If your camp runs big shows, evenings of entertainment, 
do you invite the local residents? A notice in the general 


store or some mimeographed invitations delivered to nearby 
cottagers might give great pleasure to your neighbours. 
Similarly, a camp open house for parents and friends can be 
expanded to include local residents. Campers love to show 
off their camp and they make terrific tour guides. The 
afternoon might be highlighted by refreshments for the 
visitors. 

Community Activities 

What about involvement in the community itself? During 
the camping season, groups from one camp participate in a 
summer stock theatre. 

Another camp generally sends its choir to the neigh¬ 
bouring village to assist the church singers. It may be 
possible for you, the director, to become a member or 
affiliate of the area cottagers' association. This has the 
benefit of providing first-hand information about local pro¬ 
jects or the annual regatta sponsored by many of the larger 
associations. Your campers may be able to assist in com¬ 
munity fund raising projects. One camp in the United 
States raised $7,500 toward the financing of a new munici¬ 
pal hospital. 

Buying Locally 

If it is financially feasible, purchasing camp food and 
supplies locally is a good way to ingratiate yourself and 
your camp with the community. 

Camp Facilities 

In emergencies, camp neighbours will greatly appreciate 
knowing what camp services are available to them. A tele¬ 
phone? Doctor? Nurse? Let them know what facilities 
they may use. 

Visitors' Day 

Signs, uniform and well painted, or a camp map, will 
help greatly to dispel the new visitor's confusion about 
where to go. A camper locating system is helpful, in that 
parents or friends wont have to wait hours for their chil¬ 
dren to appear. It is rightly expected that all camp staff will 
act like good hosts and treat all visitors with respect and 
courtesy. Some camps provide meals for visitors (paid or 
free), particularly if the camp location is remote. 

The Camp Itself 

Does your camp have an appealing entrance? Are camp 
buildings attractive, painted regularly and coordinated as 
much as possible? How about camp roads? Are they kept 
in good repair and as free from dust as can be expected? 
Is adequate attention paid to keeping washroom facilities 
sanitary? Small details can make a great deal of difference. 
Odds and Ends 

Camp truck drivers have constant contact with the 
public. It is important that they are pleasant and coopera¬ 
tive by nature. Office practices are significant. Good camp 
stationery, a secretary who answers the telephone with 
“Good morning. Camp Bluewater, Miss Hart speaking", 
promptly paid bills, all make a difference. 

Making the effort to meet local officials can be a source 
of pleasure and a decided advantage. 

Your camp crest, flashing from canoes, trucks, jackets 
and T-shirts may be a source of pride for your campers and 
a good publicity agent for you. 

Camp Records 

Camp movies or slides can be a great source of delight 
and entertainment. Photographs of cabin groups provide a 


16 



good historical camp record and can be hung in a suitable 
area for permanent display. 

A camp magazine, hopefully produced by the campers 
and distributed on the day of departure or mailed after¬ 
wards, are wonderful keepsakes and often revered by 
campers. 

Staff Relations 

Space does not permit a full discussion of the impor¬ 
tance of public relations when dealing with staff. It should 
be noted, however, that it is important for staff members 
to fully understand the terms and conditions of their 
employment, including wages and camp rules. If it becomes 
necessary to dismiss a staff member, how is the situation 
handled? Not too long ago in one camp a counsellor was 
told over the loudspeaker system to leave the premises 
within an hour! 

Camp Evaluation 

Once the camping summer is over and ‘fully digested’, 
you may wish to send a camp evaluation to the parents and 
campers. What were the parents impressed with? What did 
they not like about the camp? How did Johnny feel about 


the camp activities and his cabin mates? Questions like 
these are appreciated by camping families and they can 
provide stimulating ideas for programming or structure 
changes. 

Camp Reunion 

Continuing contact with your campers is essential if you 
wish to have them return next year. A well planned camp 
reunion will help to renew old friendships and remind 
campers of the upcoming season. The reunion also provides 
a great opportunity to screen the camp movies you shot 
the previous summer. 

The benefits to camp accrued from good public rela¬ 
tions can hardly be underestimated. Donations of articles, 
permission to use private land, advice or assistance, the 
goodwill of cottagers, and the continuing support of 
parents-all this is possible when camp operators are con¬ 
cerned enough to be interested in the welfare of those with 
whom they come in contact. 

The cost is effort-and there may be a great deal of it- 
but the rewards will prove that things do go better with 
good public relations. ★ 



Here’s an ideal gift idea that lasts the whole year through — a paid-up subscription 
to Canadian Camping. 

An appropriate greeting card with the donor’s name will be sent with the first issue. 
Each subscription costs $5.00. 

Please complete section below and send with your cheque to: 

Canadian Camping Association 
Suite 203, 102 Eglinton Ave. East 
Toronto, Ontario M4P 1 El, Canada 


Identify as a Gift from 

p 

L 

E 

A 

S 

E 

P 

R 

1 

N 

T 

Identify as a Gift from 

To 

To 

Address 

Address 

Gity Prov. Postal Code 

Gity Prov. Postal Gode 

Mail Date & Occasion 

Mail Date A Occasion 



Identify as a Gift from 

P 

L 

E 

A 

S 

E 

P 

R 

1 

N 

T 

Identify as a Gift from 

To 

To 

Address 

Address 

Gity Prov. Postal Gode 

Gity Prov Postal Gode 

Mail Date & Occasion 

Mail Date A Occasion 




17 







































Canada-the World’s Park 


In Niagara Falls, you can find people from just about 
every country in the world. Not just because it’s one of the 
seven natural wonders of the world, but because it's part of 
Canada. A natural part. 

Next year, according to Peter Lesaux, assistant director 
of our national parks, there may be as many as 23.000 
Japanese skiiers visiting Banff. People from other crowded 
European countries will also visit here along with people 
from the U.S. who will charge across our border by the 
millions. Why? Because we have something other countries 
are losing. We have unmarred landscapes, fresh clean air and 
pure, clear water just to mention a few - which 1, as a 
Canadian, usually take for granted and therefore fail to 
appreciate the way many visitors do. 

These “tourists” who visit our country will not necessi¬ 
tate the replanting of our forests, the construction of power 
dams or the building of houses throughout the beautifully 
empty countryside. On the contrary. They come to see our 
natural environment, not destroy it. And when they come, 
they spend millions. 

Competing for land today are many forms of industry 
including hydro, petroleum, mining, timber and recreation 
interests. Add to this the need for housing required by our 
own offspring and new immigrants and you may understand 
the problem of our shrinking land market. 

Among the reasons I love Canada are the wide open 
spaces and the lack of people, but if we must earn money 
from our natural resources, would it not be better to sell 
the view rather than the resource itself? And, at the same 
time, is it really beneficial to import more people (more 
than 250,000 in 1967) to develop the country? 

According to Mr. Lesaux, Canada requires more national 


parks. We have twenty-five now, but people are already 
lining up for their outdoor experience. In 1971 we had 
more than 13 million visitors in our national parks, but we 
had only some 12,800 camping sites. If we had more in the 
existing parks, they would quickly become campgrounds 
and that is not their purpose. These parks were created by 
the Federal Government to preserve nature first and provide 
recreation second and they are not about to change policy 
under pressure. Fact is. we need more parks. 

Your province or territory must first give suitable land 
to the Federal Government for the development of a park. 
Then, with part of their $35 million budget, the National 
Parks Service can develop and maintain the area. 

That $35 million may sound impressive, but compare it 
with the $45 million we spent last year alone for camping 
equipment and supplies and also consider the fact that if we 
don't provide more parks today, it may be impossible 
tomorrow. It's an investment, and as you well know, worth¬ 
while investments usually require sacrifice. Instead of lives 
however, we need only suffer a slight cut-back of what they 
call “affluence”. 

What can Legion members do? I really don't know, but 
I do know you have fought battles before and I feel certain 
you can see what is happening in this country today. It 
seems, for every dollar we earn, a tree is cut, a road is carved 
or a dam is built. I've been through the U.S. and I've seen 
exploitation and development at its finest. The quality of 
life seems to go down as the income goes up. Is that an 
unwritten law? Can we not profit more in the long run by 
preserving our country now? 

Reprinted with permission. Legion Magazine 





















SURPRISE BARBECUE FRANKS 

Slice each wiener down the centre. Insert a piece of Cheddar 
cheese. Pour on barbecue or tomato sauce. Fold in foil. Fleat 
from 10 to 15 minutes. Serve in sliced buns, heated. 

PAN FRIED POTATOES 

Peel and wash several medium-sized potatoes. Cut in fairly thin 
slices and cook slowly in a little bacon fat until they are nicely 
browned on both sides. Then drain them, if necessary, and season 
with salt and pepper. For variations, onions can be cooked with 
them, or grated cheese can be sprinkled on them after they have 
been turned. 


i ANGELS ON HORSEBACK 

> Each camper will need: 

2 strips of bacon (cut in half) 

2 hamburger rolls 
2 oz. cheese 
Lettuce 

j Cut cheese into 2 slices. Wrap bacon 
| around the cheese, using half a strip in 
| each direction. Push the toasting stick 
through these and toast over hot coals. 
Place broiled bacon and cheese inside 
i roll with lettuce and eat. 

HUNTER'S STEW 

/2 lb. diced bacon 
2 medium sized onions, sliced 
Water, but not much 
(stew, not soup) 

6 carrots, diced 
4 large potatoes, diced 

Any other vegetables you like 
Salt and pepper 

Fry bacon crisp, add onions and cook 
until transparent. Pour in cold water 
(enough to cover vegetables) and heat 
to boiling. Add carrots and cook about 
10 minutes before adding potatoes. 

| Season and continue cooking for 30 to 
| 40 minutes. Serves 4. 

MALLOW FRUIT KABOBS 

j On long skewers or long-tined toasting 
forks, “sandwich” marshmallows be- 
! tween chunks of banana and canned or 
I fresh peaches. Brush fruit with melted 
! margarine and lemon juice. Grill until 
| marshmallows are toasted. Eat directly 
| from fork like toasted marshmallows 
[ or push with knife onto graham wafers 
! or fruit bread. 


SILVER STAR BEANS 

Mix: 

1 16 oz. can pork and beans 

% tsp. prepared mustard 
!4 cup cubed process cheese 
Divide into three portions onto three 
14” x 14” squares of heavy duty alumi¬ 
num foil. Top beans with a thin ring of 
onion. Twist corners of foil together 
tightly. Cook on grill for about 10 
minutes or until hot. Serves 3. 


RING TUM DITTY JR. 

3 /i lb. bacon or luncheon meat, 
diced 

I /2 cups minced onion 
6 cups tomatoes 
6 cups canned corn 
4 cups diced cheese 
Salt and pepper 
Green pepper 

Fry bacon or luncheon meat, green 
pepper and onions together until vege¬ 
tables are tender. Stir in tomatoes and 
corn, simmer 5 minutes. Add cheese 
and seasonings. As soon as cheese melts, 
serve with cabbage salad. Serves 12. 


BANANA YUM-YUMS 

Split banana through the skin length¬ 
wise. Sprinkle brown sugar in the 
opening. Close and wrap in foil. Place 
on grill over fire for 15 minutes. 


Editor's Note: The above recipes are 

among manv m the cook book entitled 
"Cookery tor Kids, Kamp 'n Kicks" by 
Helen E. Stewart. 


INTRODUCTORY OFFER 

(HURT: 

aquatic 
supervi/ion 
in action 



■ A NEW BOOK for aquatic admini¬ 
strators, lifeguards^summer camps 
and recreation leaders. 

■ Swimming pool, waterfront and 
beach operation. 

■ Techniques of lifeguarding, rescue 
methods and first aid. 

■ Public education. P.R., legislation, 
off-season use, etc. 

■ Emphasis is on enjoyment in 
leisure aquatic activities. 

■ Contains over 120 diagrams and 
photographs. 

■ Disponible en franpais decembre '74 

Order from: 

Royal Life Saving Society Canada 
550 Church Street 
TORONTO, Ont. M4Y 2E1 

Cost: $5.95 plus 65 d Mailing Charge. 


LOST 

YOUR 

MESSAGE? 


EVEN A SMALL AD IS NOT 
LOST IN THE PAGES OF THE 
CANADIAN CAMPING 
MAG AZIN E. 



You looked here, 
didn’t you? 


Further information is avail¬ 
able from the Advertising 
Manager, Douglas C. Dent, 
145 Lincoln Rd., Waterloo, 
Ontario N2J 2N8. 


19 















RICHILDACA 
Mr. and Mrs. W 
193 Richmond S' 
Richmond Hill, 


<5 


A 

o 


heard? do 


X5 


* 


Here we are back in action after a very exciting 
and satisfying summer . . . sincerely trust you 
experienced the same. Now to bring you the news on the 
Canadian camping scene. * The National Archives are established 
at Trent University in Peterborough. Its Chairman, Adele Ebbs, would 
greatly appreciate prompt action on the part of all provincial presidents in 
forwarding to her the names of their Archives Chairmen so she can communicate 
with them directly. And why the urgency? Because Ken Johnson, the archivist at Trent 
University, has requested various camp material, some of which cannot be supplied until the 
provinces respond. A fine contribution has been received from Mr. F.M. Van Wagner and researchers 



are requesting the camp papers of the late Miss Mary S. Edgar and others. Because ol this situation, Ken 
Johnson states that “this in itself raises the point of the usefulness and research value of the personal papers of 
those associated with the camping-movement across Canada. If you know of any that might become available, let me 


know for such are welcome in the 
Archives." The urgency is there so care 
enough to follow through on Adele's 
request. Presidents. * Reprints of the 
article on Miss Mary S. Edgar bv Mary 
L. Northway, which appeared in the 
’73 Fall Issue of Canadian Camping , 
may be purchased from the CCA Office 
at a charge of 50<i which includes mail¬ 
ing and handling costs. * Shirl Willette, 
one of our consultants from Recreation 
Canada is moving on to bigger and 
better things in Government circles, 
lie's been a great help to all of us . . . 
our sincere thanks to him . . . and. of 
course, our continuing thanks to the 
Hon. Marc Lalonde and Cor Westland 
for their earnest support, both morally 
and financially. * The dates have been 
set for the following Annual Meetings 
and Conferences: SCA Conference in 
Saskatoon Nov. 15-16; NSCA Annual 
Meeting in Halifax Nov. 19: National 
Workshop at Geneva Park Jan. 16-19; 
OCA Conference at Ryerson Institute 
in Toronto Feb. 27-Mar. 2. ♦The CCA 
is pleased to welcome the Boys Clubs 
of Canada as an Affiliate Member. Our 
other Affiliate Member is the Girl 
Guides of Canada. * The National 
Standards Workshop held at La Caleche 
in Ste. Agathe on Oct. 2-3 proved to 
be very successful and one thing that 
came out of it, which will be of interest 
to our readers, is that the Code of 
National Ethics was reviewed and it 
will appear bilingually in the National 
Directory. The Outdoor Education 
Conference, the first sponsored by 
CCA, followed on Oct. 3-6 and we 
have received glowing reports of its 
success. Congratulations are in order 
to Bob Cameron and Bob Lazanik, the 
organizers, and to Lome Brown and 


Paul Dampier for their leadership on 
the Nature Awareness portions of the 
Conference. John Kirk, Past President 
of the American Camping Association, 
contributed greatly as one of the lead¬ 
ers. Many of the delegates moved on 
to the Mount Royal Hotel in Montreal 
for the CCA Board Meeting on Oct. 7-8. 
Several items of interest came out of 
this meeting . . . Nominations for Presi¬ 
dent and Vice-President of CCA are 
due in by Dec. 31st and election by 
mail will follow. It was decided that 
the two best people should be found 
for these positions and be on a wide 
Canadian basis and not consciously 
passed from province to province. * 
The next CCA Executive Meeting will 
be held prior to the Geneva Park Con¬ 
ference. * The French Language Com¬ 
mittee has been established and Paul 
Belanger recommended that some 
French sessions be organized for a 
National Workshop. In that regard, it 
was suggested that a National Work- 
hop for French Camps might be con¬ 
sidered. * As a result of the support of 
Recreation Canada, a Conference for 
Camp Directors and Senior Personnel 
who are members of the CCA will be 
held at Geneva Park. There will be two 
phases at the Conference . . . The Lead¬ 
er of Phase One will be Mr. Don Ehat, 
President of Organizational Develop¬ 
ment Associates, Washington. D.C. The 
programme will include participation 
and lecturettes on a concerted study of 
Communication techniques and styles: 
development of objectives; decision¬ 
making: and team building. Phase Two 
will cover more specific topics on the 
application of leadership, led by indi¬ 
viduals from the Camping field who 
have had considerable experience in 


topics such as: Hiring and Interview¬ 
ing: Pre-camp training: Staff meetings: 
Evaluations; Job descriptions; Working 
with a Committee; Actualization of 
Camp philosophies: Handling of ad¬ 
ministrative, budgeting and financial 
matters. Prior to the Conference, dele¬ 
gates will be asked to collect informa¬ 
tion and data which should be of 
interest to all delegates namely, 
samples of camp brochures, crests, con¬ 
tracts, medical forms, application forms 
(for staff and campers), reference 
forms, staff manuals, etc. The BCCA 
has been asked to provide the leader¬ 
ship for the Friday evening sessions 
and the QCA-ACQ the social evening 
on Saturday. * The CCA Annual Meet¬ 
ing was held in the same hotel setting 
on October 7th. We understand that 
Val Willis, the Chairman of the Na¬ 
tional Ethics Committee, did an excep¬ 
tional job in organizing this meeting. 
The CCA Award of Honour certificates 
were presented to the following for 
their great contribution to the CCA 
Eileen Mayotte, in her capacity as the 
Regional Vice-President for the Prairie 
Provinces: John Latimer as the Presi¬ 
dent of CCA: Stan Wild for his monu¬ 
mental task in rewriting the CCA Con¬ 
stitution: Claude Cousineau for the 
Canoe Schools: and last, but certainly 
not least, to two gentlemen who are 
the exemplification of Canadian Camp¬ 
ing . . . Dave Hartry, Past President of 
the CCA and Bob Lazanik, Regional 
Vice-President for Quebec. Two richly 
deserved awards were also bestowed 
when Mr. Charlie Plewman and Mr. 
“Van" Wagner were made Honorary 
Members of the CCA. * Before signing 
off.my thanks to Adele. John and Jack 
for their contributions to this column. 

—Helen E. Stewart 




