Official Publication of The Canadian Camping Association 


CANADIAN CAMPING 















Manufacturers 

of 


the famous 

Gibbons 

Quickset 

Quality 

Food Products 

Prepaid to 

Camps 
anywhere 
in Canada 

COm OH CMPtRS! 

You are as close to our order 
desk as your telephone. 

Call _ Collect — 

Factory ROger 7-0101 

Jelly Powders 

Pudding Powders 

Pie Fillings 

Cake Mix 

Table Syrup 

Fruit Beverages 

Hot Chocolate 
Flavorings 

Soup base 

Marmalade 

Jams 

Instant Puddings 

(evenings and weekends 

BEImont 1-0429). 

Prompt service for any listed products 
here (prepaid) is yours with pleasure. 

DON’T FORGET: 

GIBBONS 

Canadian 

Distributors 

Peek Fre3n Biscuits 
(Bulk Packages) 
and 

Kamp-Pack 

A food kit for trips 

and only Gibbons make these food 
products exclusively for Camps 
and Institutions. 

GIBBONS 

Quickset 

yt for DESSERTS 

Quality 

3565 DUNDAS WEST 

TORONTO, CANADA 




rough|Mut 


Regardless of the size of the assignment, you will find our 
facilities of inestimable value. Our specialists assume full respon¬ 
sibility and you are involved with only one firm, which saves 
complications, shaves costs and speeds up the whole equipping, 
decorating and furnishing process. 

EATON’S has an impressive record of contract installations 
— write for our informative folder. 



Toronto, Canada, fune, 1957 3 























proven 

WcKEWCO 

products 


also 


ANCO SEPTIC TANK CLEANER 

and ACTIVATER. For trouble-free operation of 
Septic Tanks and Drain Fields. Anco restores 
waste-clogged tanks to normal efficiency . . . 
eliminates odors and protects health. It keeps 
any properly-built Septic Tank in top working 
condition. 


• McKemeo Machine Dishwashing 

Compounds 

• McKemco Hand Dishwashing Compounds 

• McKemco Glass Washing Compounds 

• McKemco Sanitizing Agents 

• McKemco Pots and Pans Cleaners 

• McKemco Insecticides 

• McKemco Washroom Supplies 

• Whitato Anti-Oxidant to keep Peeled 

Potatoes White • 

• Anco Grease Trap Cleaner 


• McKemco Special Laundry Compounds 

• McKemco H.X.M. Cleaner Special 

Compound No. 15 
•. McKemco Laundry Soap Powder 

• McKemco Laundry Foam 

• McKemco Sodium Hypochlorite Bleach 

• McKemco Paradichlorbenzine Crystals 

for Mothproofing 


McKAGUE CHEMICAL COMPANY 


LI M I T E D 


1119A YONGE STREET, TORONTO 

and McKAGUE CHEMICALS (EASTERN) LTD. 

421 COURTEMANCHE AVENUE. MONTREAL EAST. QUEBEC 


Write us today for 
complete information on 
any of these quality 
McKemco Products. 


5310 


4 


Canadian Camping 






ur 


X 

i 


KITCHEN 

EQUIPMENT 


FREE GIFT 



Handi-Kutter 


CLICK! It’s a handy knife for ripping 
seams, sharpening pencils. 

CLICK! It's safe to carry in purse or 
pocket. 

Uses ordinary razor blades—easy to refill. 


MAIL COUPON NOW 


Everyone connected with mass feeding appre¬ 
ciates McClary Kitchen Equipment. Camp 
Management likes McClary service, from 
design to final installation. Chefs and staff 
praise McClary efficiency in saving time and 
work. Send coupon for information and free 
gift. 


GENERAL STEEL WARES LIMITED 
KITCHEN EQUIPMENT DIVISION 
199 River Street, Toronto. 


Please send me without any obligation free Handi-Kutter 
and information on: 


□ Stoves 0 Sinks 0Coffee Urns Q. 


Name .. 
















■as wcm warn mm p 


■ Bn mi ■ 

CC-l 


Toronto, Canada, June, 1957 























EMpire 6-3621 



CONTI NENTAL 
YACHT SALES 


207 Queen's Quay 


Terminal Warehouse 


Room 503 


Presents 


The lleaui ifnl 


The NK 15 is a one design class 
dingy built to Segenbaden Patent, 
without ribs or frames, of V&" solid 
mahogany planking, edge nailed and 
glued. Outstanding features of this 
construction are extreme durability 
and beauty. Easy to clean and 
maintain. 


Over 70 NK 15 Dinghies sold 
in Ontario within four months. 


Starting a new fleet? Replacing or 
adding to your present fleet? Go with 
the most popular and fastest growing 
class, the choice of many yacht clubs, 
camps and associations: THE NK 15. 


THE NK 15 NORDBORG DINGHY 

"Canada's fastest growing class" 

Length: 14' 9" Beam: 65" Depth 
Sail: 108 sq. ft. Hinged Rudder 
Reefing. 


: 21 " 
Roller 


6 


Canadian Camping 





ATTENTION CAMP DIRECTORS 


This Tableware is produced to specifications set bv The Canadian 
Government. Save up to 90% on replacements of dishes. 


Write for sample and full particulars to 


GENERAL PLASTICS LIMITED 


1117 St. Catherine St. W., Montreal 


in St. W., Toronto 


Toronto, Canada, June, 1957 


7 





Put MIL-KO 

IN YOUR CAMP KITCHEN ! 


and you’ll always have 

FRESH MILK 

(without refrigeration) 


wherever you have 
FRESH WATER 
. . . at Less than V 2 the cost too ! 


It's as simple as that! You can store Instant 
Mil-ko anywhere, without refrigeration . . . 
and then just add fresh, cold water whenever 
you require pasteurized sweet milk. For 
Instant Mil-ko dissolves instantly and only 
costs about 9 cents a quart! Packed in handy 
20 or 50 lbs. cartons with moisture-proof 
plastic liners for camp use. Available at all 
wholesalers so order Instant Mil-ko with your 
other groceries. 



Instant MIL-KO is Milk 
with only the water, fat 
and high costs removed. 


And for an added flavour treat 
try INSTANT CHOCOLATE MIL.-KO 

A delicious, rich chocolate drink . . . and all you 
do is add water, hot or cold ! 


- FREE 1 POUND SAMPLE - 

MIL-KO PRODUCTS LIMITED, MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY ! 

160 Chatham Street, 

Hamilton, Ont. 

Please send 1 lb. package of FREE Instant Mil-ko and one package 
of FREE Instant Chocolate Mil-ko plus your booklet, "The Story 
of Instant Powdered Skim Milk". 

NAME . 

COMPANY . 

ADDRESS . 


Canadian Ca.mi 


1 


INC 











CANADIAN CAMPING 


Vol. 9 


JUNE, 1957 


No. 4 


CONTENTS 


Editorial . 

Homesickness. 

Among Ourselves . 

Worship Services. 

Rainy Days. 

Health and Safety in Camp. 

Trapping Small Mammals. 

Canoeing — A Canadian Heritage 

Duel Issues. 

Tabloid Activities . 

For Your Camp Library. 

Woodfire and Candle-Light. 

Whoduzit? . 

That Third Meal . 

The Swimming Programme. 


.F. M. VanWagner 11 

.Dr. Taylor Statten 12 

. W. Jack Eastaugh 17 

. 19 

Nancy Porter and B. Lowes 21 

.Dr. J. H. Ebbs 23 

.B. Lowes 25 

. Mary Porter 26 

.Mary Barker 28 

. B. Lowes 31 

.Dorothy Douglas 34 

.Mary Edgar 37 

.. W. E. Yard 40 

. 44 

.Mavis Berridge 46 


Cover Photograph Courtesy Camp Pinecrest 


CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

Office: Room 407, 170 Bloor St. West, Toronto 
WAlnut 2-0151 


Honorary President 

A. L. Cochrane, Toronto 


Past Presidents 

Taylor Statten, Toronto 
Dais L. Gass, Montreal 
Anne I. Vail, Montreal 
W. E. (Ted) Yard, Toronto 
Irwin Haladner, Toronto 

President 

F. M. VanWagner, Montreal 
Vice Presidents 

Mrs. I. H. McDonald, Winnipeg 
John Hoyle, Toronto 
Gertrude Moore, Victoria 


Treasurer 

W. J. C. Hcwetson, Montreal 
Editor, 

Mrs. G. W. Flynn, Toronto 

Publisher, Canadian Camping 
Fred Haiblen 

170 Bloor Street West, Toronto 
Tel. WAlnut 1-3147 


EDITORIAL COMMITTEE 

Miss Mary Barker, Miss Margaret Govan, Miss Cay Scholes, Miss Eva Baxter, Mrs. Dorothy 
M. Douglas, Mrs. J. Harry Ebbs, Mrs. David Palter, Mr. Arthur Birtles, Mr. Barry Low e s, 
Mr. W. E. Yard, Rev. John Hoyle, Rev. R. F. Sneyd. 


"CANADIAN CAMPING” IS PUBLISHED FOUR TIMES A YEAR BY THE CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
CO. FOR THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION AT 170 BLOOR ST. WEST. TORONTO. ONTARIO. SUEs- 
SCRIPTION PRICES: MEMBERSHIP IN THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION INCLUDES^CANADIAN 
CAMPING: TO NON-MEMBERS, SO CENTS PER COPY. SI .75 PER YEAR, $5.00 FOR THREE YEAR . 

AUTHORIZED AS SECOND CLASS MAIL, POST OFFICE DEPARTMFNT, OTTAWA, ONT. 


Toronto, Canada , June, 1957 


9 




















SAVE ON FOOD BILLS! 


Dairy-Sweet Skim Milk ! We remove only the water 
and fat from top quality pasteurized milk to make 
STARLAC—a fine quality skim milk in handy powder 
form . . . and it’s the instant with the flavor. 

• STARLAC keeps indefinitely without refrigeration. 
Use it for drinking, and in all your baking and cooking 
—you’ll make big savings. 

Available in 1 lb. and 4 lb. tins. 



Ideal Milk Supply! You can save money on pas¬ 
teurized whole milk, by using Borden’s KLIM. 

KLIM is whole milk, with the cream right in it. It’s 
in powder form for convenience in storing and handling. 
KLIM stays fresh in the tin for weeks after it’s been 
opened. 

To mix, just add KLIM to water and beat. Use KLIM 
anywhere you’d use whole milk—for drinking, cooking 
and baking. 



Available in 1 lb., IVt. lb., and 5 lb. tins. 

Better Coffee at Less Cost! Borden’s Instant makes 
delicious coffee with far less fuss and muss than ground 
coffee. 

It’s the richest instant of them all! Flavor as rich as 
the best ground coffee—33% more flavor than any 
other leading instant. So rich you need less per cup! 

Available in 2 oz. and 5 oz. jars. 




If it’s Borden's 
it's got to 


be good! 


Canadian Camping 















TO 000 
COOHStUOOS 

Camping season is just ahead for 
many young men and women who have 
chosen to be camp counsellors this sum¬ 
mer. Whether your camp is situated by 
the sea, in the high western country, on 
the wooded shore of some beautiful 
lake, it will afford the opportunity for 
simple living in the outdoors. For this 
is what we mean when we speak of 
camping. 

Many counsellors will be returning to 
a familiar situation, while others will 
be entering upon a new experience. 
There have been interviews with the 
director and other members of the sen¬ 
ior staff, attendance at pre-camp lec¬ 
tures, and perhaps some reading on 
various camping topics. You have been 
told a great deal about what your cam¬ 
pers will be like, what your camp’s 
objectives are and what you are ex¬ 
pected to do to help achieve them. You 
now know that counsellors can be a 
camp’s greatest asset. The extent to 
which your tent or cabin group enjoy 
and profit from their summer at camp 
depends largely on you. 

Before camp opening you will prob¬ 
ably spend several days at camp in final 
preparation. This period you are sure 
to find most pleasant and helpful. By 
this time you may feel that you have 
accepted a position of great responsi¬ 
bility for one of your age and experi¬ 
ence. This is undoubtedly true, but 
under the favourable conditions which 
exist at camp, you should find no great 
difficulty in living up to the high stand¬ 
ards set by many counsellors in previous 
years. 


EDITORIAL 


F. M. VanWagner, 
President, 

Canadian Camping Association 

We have been so completely occupied 
with telling you about your duties and 
responsibilities that we may have neg¬ 
lected to tell you what you may gain 
from a season as a camp counsellor. 
There will, of course, be good meals, 
certain financial remuneration and an 
opportunity to acquire a coat of tan, 
but these are less important than other 
potential gains. You have a wonderful 
opportunity to develop out-of-doors rec¬ 
reational skills that may become lifelong 
interests. 

In connection with your duties and 
during your free hours, there will be an 
ample opportunity to engage in the 
many activities which your camp pro¬ 
vides. If, during your stay at camp, you 
gain a knowledge of camping skills and 
acquire a lasting love for life out of 
doors, you will then have gained the 
best that camp can provide. During 
the remainder of your days, at every 
available opportunity, and in all seasons, 
you will seek your recreation in the 
peaceful solititude of our wonderful 
camping country. 

Your interest in self improvement 
need not Lessen your efficiency as a 
counsellor; it should, in fact, increase 
your ability to help your campers add 
to their knowledge and heighten their 
interest in all the worthwhile things you 
have come to appreciate. 

So, face the summer with enthusiasm 
and confidence, determined to do your 
best for the happiness and welfare of 
of your campers. You will then take 
home a feeling of deep satisfaction and 
enjoyment, such as no other experience 
can give. —• 


Toronto, Canada, June, 1957 


11 



HOMESICKNESS 

“A Symptom Complex Related to Separation from Home” 

By Dr. Taylor Statten 

Director of Child Psychiatry , 

Montreal Children’s Hospital 

Part II 


Treatment and Management 

Here follow^ a discussion of treatment 
and management practicses which were 
submitted by camp directors in response 
to our questionnaire. Now we can con¬ 
sider how we can apply our understand¬ 
ing of these mechanisms to the practices 
which we are using .in the management 
of homesickness. What should our aim 
be in attempting to help the child 
handle his distress? Psychiatrists say 
that we should not cause' these feelings 
to be turned off too abruptly. We should 
allow the chijd to work through them, 
talk them out, learn to. recognize them 
and know wh'at..they mean, so that he 
can build up acceptance <and tolerance 
of them. When these feelings are so 
intense that they, jnight result in total 
disruption, the child should be helped 
to develop more healthy mechanisms, 
such 'as identification or sublimation, 
instead of projection, repression, denial 
and displacement. 

Identification is a normal mental 
mechanism. It plays a part in the 
formation of any friendly or loving 
relationship. It involves a desire to be 
like another person, to do what they do 
and feel as they feel. One may identify 
with a group as well as with an indi¬ 
vidual and both group and individual 
loyalties are the result. Normal children 
identify easily with persons who show 
them kindness and understanding. Un¬ 
fortunately, many of the maladjusted 
group have had difficulties in making 


the primary identification with their 
parents because the relationships at 
home contained too little love and too 
much hostility. This makes it hard for 
them to identify with other people later 
on and therefore a positive effort is 
required by the camp personnel to pro¬ 
mote identification in these children. 

Sublimation is another healthy mech¬ 
anism by which we deal with unsatisfied 
needs or unacceptable urges. It is a 
means by which we channel them into 
socially acceptable forms and thereby 
obtain a substitute satisfaction. For 
example, aggressive drives can be subli¬ 
mated by participation in competitive 
sports. 

The activities of identification and 
sublimation are extremely useful meth¬ 
ods of management and should go along 
with the development of tolerance for 
feelings of depression. If the child 
knows that somebody understands the 
situation then he is much more likely 
to be able to handle and control his 
feelings. The methods which are at our 
disposal in the camp situation for using 
these aids are very rich ones indeed. 
Since there is a close identification be¬ 
tween the camp director and the camp, 
the director is one person who should 
be available to the camper. 

It Ls usually important for the camp 
director himself to let the camper know 
that he understands his feelings of 
homesickness and even more important 
than this, it is often useful for the 


12 


Canadian Camping 



camper to express his feelings of dissat¬ 
isfaction, anger or persecution to the 
camp director. It may be necessary for 
them to go through several or even 
many sessions of this kind before the 
child begins to deal with his feelings 
himself. It is very important for the 
director to accept these feelings and not 
to give the impression of disapproving 
them. Since guilt is usually a part of 
the feelings of depression, every effort 
should be made not to increase the 
child’s guilt by making him feel that 
his thoughts are not acceptable to the 
camp director. As long as the director 
knows of the situation the camper can 
often go and use some other member 
of the staff to talk out his difficulties. 
Since the camper feels that the camp 
director is often the closest person to 
his parents the child may feel a real 
need to try and express his hostile feel¬ 
ings towards him first. The acceptance 
of this hostility is often accompanied by 
a tremendous relief in symptoms and a 
whole positive reorientation towards his 
camping experience. 

It seems to be general practice in 
most camps to have some one person 
attached to the homesick child. This 
may be almost any staff member in the 
camp. The camper sometimes makes 
his own choice and this should be en¬ 
couraged. In other circumstances there 
is a special person assigned to help the 
camper out. During the first early days 
it may be necessary for that person to 
be with the child for almost all waking 
hours. This type of demonstration will 
help the child throw off his depression 
by feeling the friendship and love of 
another person. In this relationship he 
will become familiar with all the work¬ 
ings of the camp, will have a proof of 
interest and acceptance by special con¬ 
sideration around routines, food, drinks. 
It has often been said that the quickest 
way to a boy’s heart is through his 
stomach. We insist on small frequent 
feedings when his appetite is poor. 


There is one practice which has 
proved successful in some cases, namely, 
to have another camper assigned to 
help with the problem. It seems impor¬ 
tant to have the cabin group understand 
and accept what is going on but we 
should be very cautious about the use 
of another camper. This does backfire 
on some occasions and sometimes the 
other camper experiences some reper¬ 
cussions. The camper may tend to 
encourage the process of denial and 
repression and thus only postpone the 
time when the child will learn to toler¬ 
ate and accept his own feelings. How¬ 
ever, if the camper selected has been 
several times to the case and himself 
identifies with it and enjoys it, then this 
manoeuvre may be successful. 

The part that the general program 
plays in the management of homesick¬ 
ness seems to be fairly well understood. 
One of our objectives is to promote 
identification and sublimation. The first 
contact which becomes meaningful in 
some cases seems to he that with a 
program instructor. Where the home¬ 
sickness appears to be tied up with the 
problems of group living, it is often 
found that there is some escape and 
relief for the child in the individual 
projects offered in the arts and crafts 
and nature programs, provided the 
instructor understands the situation and 
is made aware of his part in the 
management and treatment. 

It is often possible to capitalize on 
some asset that the child has demon¬ 
strated in a former setting. An ability 
to write or draw has been the small 
nucleus of achievement which, when 
exploited through the editing of a 
paper or writing and directing a play, 
gives the feeling of success and recog¬ 
nition and of being useful and wanted. 
In the same light it is often very useful 
to assign some distinctive job which 
gives the camper a sense of representing 
a senior authority in the camp. Such 


Toronto, Canada, June, 1957 


13 


arrangements as being a messenger for 
the camp director, a clerk in the dis¬ 
pensary or the important person who 
rings the bell which calls the whole 
camp to assemble for dinner, will raise 
his self-esteem and give him a sense of 
belonging. 

Our watchful eye should always be 
looking for the overly enthusiastic child 
who is using the process of sublimation 
by involving himself in activities to an 
excess in an effort to overcome anxieties 
and uncertainties. He may be using 
activities to prevent himself from form¬ 
ing relationships with other people. 
Here again an effort should be made 
to supply a relationship and this 
can often be successfully accomplished 
through the instructor of the activity 
which is being pursued. 

It has been repeatedly observed that 
children tend to express their homesick 
feelings more during meals, rest periods, 
bed time and when they have leisure 
periods. Sunday is often a difficult day 
for them. The aim should be to help 
the child through these periods by indi¬ 
vidual support. It is important to allow 
these feelings to be expressed and there¬ 
fore a lot of consideration should be 
given to the balance between activity 
and leisure. 

Having attempted to accentuate the 
positive we now have to eliminate the 
negative by considering how to aid the 
children who are using the unhealthy 
mechanisms of defence. We should 
make every effort to help the child 
realize why he is homesick by encour¬ 
aging him to express his feelings about 
his separation from home and his par¬ 
ents sending him away from them. He 
may have repressed his anger with his 
parents, because this would be too 
threatening for him, and focussed it on 
the camp instead. This is the defence 
mechanism of displacement and many 
children find it easier to express their 


anger first against the camp in this way 
and only later towards the family. 

It often takes some time before the 
child can turn his anger in the correct 
direction. We have often seen the 
results of repression of this hostility. 
When the parents visit the camp, the 
child almost ignores them for a time or 
can only burst out in a furious flood of 
tears and remorse towards the end of 
the visit. In some cases, on the parents’ 
first visit, the child will make an angry 
demand to be taken home. This may 
be a renewal of a battle which he lost 
before coming to camp, but with some 
it constitutes the first open expression 
of resentment at his banishment from 
home. He may not have been able to 
take a stand against his parents’ opinion 
previously but his camp experience has 
given him enough security to accept and 
express his anger with them. He has 
gained this security because the adults 
at camp have themselves accepted his 
angry feelings and moreover he has seen 
that he is not the only child to experi¬ 
ence them. It is at this point that the 
camp director may have to deal with 
annoyed and bewildered parents, who 
feel that the camp has turned their 
previously docile child into a rebel, and 
interpret to them the inner meaning of 
what has occurred. 

Some of our most dramatic changes 
in behaviour occur after such a battle 
between child and parents. The child 
feels that he has won, even though he 
remains at camp, because it becomes 
apparent to him that the parents 
accepted his anger and yet were not 
swayed in their judgment of what was 
good for him. 

Sometimes in an older child, after 
there has been a good attempt to work 
out these feelings by all concerned, it is 
worthwhile to allow the camper to 
make the final decision. This usually 
results in a more complete working 
through of the problem and we have 


14 


Canadian Camping 


seen a child make the decision to re¬ 
main at camp at the point of loading 
his trunk into the transportation which 
is ready to take him away. Only then 
does the reality of the situation come 
clear. He then realizes that the parents 
are right in their desire for him to 
remain but this could only be arrived 
at through a demonstration on the part 
of the parents of their love for him and 
their willingness to take him home. We 
find that this technique is most appro¬ 
priate when the parents had previously 
promised to take the child home if he 
did not like camp. Here the child 
denies that he likes camp in order to he 
sure that the parents will keep their 
original promise and thus prove their 
love. 

In his article on “Guilt and Home¬ 
sickness in Gamp”, Charles S. Levey 
points out that “guilt from omission” is 
one symptom of homesickness. In these 
cases the child suddenly is reminded of 
home by a letter or some incident, and 
immediately becomes homesick. These 
children have liked camp and have 
enjoyed it but on remembering home 
they become homesick. It is our feeling 
that the mechanisms of denial or repres¬ 
sion are at work here in that the stimu¬ 
lus for the memory of home allows 
underlying depressive feelings to come 
through and they are felt as a punish¬ 
ment for not remembering home. How 
many of the children in camp who 
avoid in every possible way sending 
letters home are repressing memories 
of home to prevent depressive feelings? 
We have all become very curious about 
the child who does not read his letters 
from home but tucks them away in his 
trunk, because he is afraid that he will 
display emotion if he allows himself to 
be reminded of home. 

There is a wide variation in our 
staff’s reaction to depression. The 
stronger and healthier our camp organ¬ 
ization is from mental health stand¬ 
point the more able we are to face up 


to the emotional difficulties children 
experience. One quality which has con¬ 
tributed to the success in institution 
dealing with children is the courageous 
endeavour for self-evaluation on the 
part of adults caring for children. 

It is difficult to find out how our 
counsellors and staff feel about home¬ 
sickness. It comes as a great surprise 
to a camp leader when he finds after 
careful examination that some of his 
staff are struggling with this problem in 
themselves, and are only being made 
more anxious by outcroppings of home¬ 
sickness in their campers. If the staff 
are uncertain and fearful of their cam¬ 
per, if reputations of campers for whom 
they are responsible are not too reassur¬ 
ing, these uncertainties will be trans¬ 
mitted, often in subtle ways to the 
campers. The problems which make 
staff members uncertain can be mul¬ 
tiple ;but if we have carefully selected 
our staff and have had a good period of 
adjustment and training for them, many 
of these uncertainties will be resolved 
before the campers arrive. This whole 
problem of staff training and staff rela¬ 
tionships is of enormous importance 
and far beyond the scope of this discus¬ 
sion on homesickness, but nevertheless it 
is intimately related. During these first 
uncertain days the camper will be test¬ 
ing us out. Our sensitivity to this pro¬ 
cess and our ability to pass the test 
successfully will help to determine the 
duration of this stage of doubt and 
insecurity. 

The whole process of setting up the 
physical camp, and training the person¬ 
nel, and then the method of preparing 
campers for their camping experience 
is especially important to the group 
whose homesickness was a basis of situa¬ 
tions peculiar to camping. If th,e phys‘- 
cal set-up of the camp is very different 
from what the child has previously 
experienced, there are bound to be feel¬ 
ings of unfamiliarity which can be the 
starting point for loneliness or a sense 


Toronto, Canada, June, 1957 


15 


of being different. If the plant is run 
down, if important pieces of equipment 
are not in working order, or if some 
activity about which the child is enthus¬ 
iastic is not offered, feelings of home¬ 
sickness will be exaggerated. It is there¬ 
fore very important for everything to 
bg in running order and good condition 
and also for the child to have some idea 
of what he can expect to find. If his 
preconceived ideas of camp and the 
reality coincide in quality or if the camp 
is better physically than he imagined 
then there will be fewer problems or 
disappointment and feelings of wanting 
to return home. , : 

. It is_also j.mportant to interpret the 
institution to ,tne T children and this is 
one job in which all t staff will be con¬ 
stantly engaged. Th e rules and safety 
precautions are extremely important. It 
is more reassuring for the children to 
know that they are going to be looked 
after and not allowed to run riot and 
dp, foolish things which could cause 
bqdily or emotional harm. Therefore 
they ^hpuld know and understand the 
methods . .of supervision and what part 
they hayi^ to play in this. They need to 
know, what they can and cannot do and 
where, they, should be and when. There 
is a tendency to overwhelm campers or 
for them to feel overwhelmed at the 
start, and therefore it is necessary to 
establish certain routines and limits 
during the first few days. These may 
be lifted later and more choice offered 
as the child shows evidence of reaching 
out for new experiences. 

The management and treatment of 
category three, the children with person¬ 
ality problems, can be a highly technical 
procedure. Many camps have the ad¬ 
vantage of having a qualified person on 
th.eir staff to advise and direct the plan¬ 
ning and management of such cases. 
Camp can then make considerable con¬ 
tribution to the rehabilitation of these 
children and a certain number of these 
cases in camp can help the staff’ to 


develop the awareness and understand¬ 
ing necessary for the management of 
less disturbed children. 

Camps should accept their limitations 
and the limitation of the children for 
whom they are caring. Many problems 
cannot be helped and are well beyond 
the scope of normal camping personnel. 
We are very willing to accept for a trial 
period a child who shows reasonable 
adjustment, whose family is consistently 
working with a psychiatrist during the 
winter and where the psychiatrist feels 
that the camping program will be help¬ 
ful. In these cases we expect a lot of 
background information and suggestions 
for management from the physician. 

We hesitate to accept for a second 
season a child who has shown a lot of 
difficulty in his adjustment, if the family 
has not sought help for that child during 
the winter. Here, if treatment has been 
available but has not been undertaken, 
I feel that we would only be supporting 
the denial of the problem which the 
family has developed towards the child 
and his difficulties. The parents send 
such a child off to camp and experience 
relief at getting rid of him and they are 
likely to continue to do this until some 
sensitive, knowing camp director helps 
them to see the necessity for psychiatric 
care. 

This paper could continue for many 
pages. It could be a book entitled 
“Good Camping” and it is well known 
to all of us that when our campers are 
happy and cheerful, and hope that 
the camping period will not hasten to 
close when the camp is good and run¬ 
ning well. Camping people also know 
well that to run a successful camp for 
all the campers entrusted to their care 
is a very complicated and difficult task 
requiring the combination of many skills 
and abilities and a great deal of exper¬ 
ience. It is this improvement and con¬ 
sistently high quality of our modem 
camps that has caused camping to wit¬ 
ness such a reduction in homesickness 
in recent years. —• 


16 


Canadian Camping 


AMONG 

OURSELVES 


Bv W. Jack Eastaugii 


When Bill Bell retired as director of 
Danforth Y.M.C.A.’s Sunfish Camp 
last year, it marked the end of a camp 
but not the career of a rugged humour- 
loving Bluenose who, at sixty-five, 
claims that a person shouldn't retire 
in his prime. But, then, Bill Bell has 
always seemed ageless. Those of us 
who worked with him when he first 
came to Ontario in the early thirties, 
were unaware of his age. Our lasting 
impressions are a crop of short, wiry 
hair, a rolling gait that made us sus¬ 
pect that all of Nova Scotia is somehow 
affected by the Atlantic breakers; a 
quaint manner of starting off the day 
with a “worsh” instead of a wash, and 
a persistant and infectious drive that 
couldn’t he denied. 

Bill came to Ontario in 1930, and 
despite the depression, developed a 
Y.M.C.A. programme that was the 
forerunner of the community “Y’s” of 
to-day. Any office where the rent was 
low, a part-time stenographer, and a 
reconditioned typwriter constituted the 
headquarters. School gymnasia, church 
basements and lodge halls provided fac¬ 
ilities. The youth of East York, at an 



WILLIAM O. BELL 


annual fee of 25^, was the clientele and 
Bill Bell provided the inspiration and 
leadership. 

Ask any of the men who were 
associated with Bill in those early years, 
how he felt about coming to Toronto 
from his beloved Yarmouth and they 
can’t tell you. And the reason they 
can’t tell you is that they never heard 
this sturdy Maritimer complain or 
waste energy on regrets. And yet he 
must have felt discouraged and home¬ 
sick for the tang of the ocean and the 
companionship of boyhood friends. 
Another reason it is difficult to examine 
Bill’s early feelings about Ontario is 
that he was never known to make a 
speech. Incredulous as it may seem, 
here we have a man who spent his 
lifetime in the Y.M.C.A. and yet we 
cannot recall him as ever making a 
speech. And herein lies the secret of 
the success of this man: he believed in 


Toronto , Canaria, Jane, 1957 


17 




deeds, and he gathered about him 
people who became articulate for him. 
They felt caught up in the programme 
and experienced in a very real way, 
that they were sharing in the creation 
of an institution which they understood 
and which had a meaning for them. 
Bill Bell never “carried” anyone. Board 
members and leaders worked with Bill 
continuously and he could count on the 
same fellows being with him year after 
year because they all felt they had an 
essential stake in the creation of Dan- 
forth Y.IvI.C.A. and Sunfish Camp. 
Bill Bell was always the leader and 
never the “boss”. 

The first Sunfish Camp was located 
on a sandy waste near Ward’s Island, 
within clear view of Toronto’s sprout¬ 
ing skyscrapers and murky marshalling 
yards. A corrugated airplane hangar 
served as a dining hall, and scrub 
willows and horse tails provided the 
traditional “pine scented woods and 
leafy dells”. For six dollars per week 
(and less if this fee created a hard¬ 
ship), the youth of Toronto’s east end 
came to camp. Bill had no experienced 
help. His leaders were young high 
school lads who used to meet with him 
every Friday after school at the “Y” 
office in a Hi-Y Club. On Fridays we 
used to take a “double” lunch to school. 
Fresh sandwiches to eat at noon and 
then a few “extras” for supper at the 
Hi-Y meeting. These stale concoctions 
were edible only because of the tea 
or coffee that Bill used to brew on a 
hot plate which stood beside the type¬ 
writer. 

Those were wonderful meetings. 
Starting about 4:30 they carried on 
until 10 p.m. or later. We developed 
songs suitable for camp; and song 
leaders emerged from necessity. We 
developed crafts from every conceiv¬ 
able scrap material. Our Indian Lore 
programme never lacked colour, for 


these Friday night gatherings were 
used to assemble headdresses from 
turkey feathers begged from the St. 
Lawrence market. Bill discovered by 
rummaging around the lumber yards, 
he could buy for $12.00 enough clear 
pine to make rowboats; every season 
two or more new skiffs were added to 
our fleet. Ours was the best possible 
camp leaders’ training course. We knew 
one another intimately. We met all the 
year ’round, and we were thirsty for 
knowledge. 

In 1935 a piece of land was acquired 
at Lake Simcoe near Stroud, and Sun¬ 
fish Camp was moved. Bill Bell was 
intimate with every board and nail that 
went into this project. When it was 
sold for a handsome price a year or so 
ago it was a real showplace, and a 
credit to this man who built character 
and camps. Sunfish Camp never knew 
a carpenter, and the only plumber was 
a board member. Starting early each 
spring Bill would load his car with 
young leaders and spend every week¬ 
end at camp, building, painting, repair¬ 
ing and improving. No summer cottager 
ever laboured more lovingly on his own 
property than did Bill Bell on Sunfish 
Camp. You will realize he must have 
an understanding wife. 

Opal Bell has been Bill’s support all 
these years. The daughter of a Nova 
Scotia minister, Mrs. Bell has been a 
tower of strength in the development of 
Danforth “Y” and the camp. Hundreds 
of ex-Sunfish leaders must have con¬ 
sumed tons of chocolate cake provided 
by Mrs. Bell, for it was a ritual to 
gather at her cabin every Sunday even¬ 
ing. Despite this unselfish devotion to 
the work, or perhaps because of it, the 
Bells have raised a family that does 
them proud. Garnet is a graduate 
engineer, Bill teaches school in the 
north, and Pauline and Jewel are 

continued on page 22 


18 


Canadian Camping 



IDEAS 


■ ■ ■ 


FOR WORSHIP SERVICES 


Often, when a staff member is called upon to lead the Sunday Service, inspiration 
does not always come to mind readily. The following suggestions are taken from Morning 
Watch (1948), and permission given for their use by the Department of Christian Education, 
Canadian Council of Churches. 

They are only suggestions. We hope those who use them will adapt them to their own 
use as far as individual imagination will soar. 


God and the Birds of the Air 

The sparrow hath found a house, 

And the swallow a nest where she may 

lay her young 
Even thine altars, O Lord. 

Psalm 84:3 

Are not five sparrows sold for two 
farthings and not one of them is for¬ 
gotten before God? . . . Fear not, ye 
are of more value . . . Luke 12:6-7. 

Read Luke 12:22-31. 

Of course, at Camp, you have seen 
the birds and heard their songs! 
Watching birds is thrilling. See the 
gull’s almost motionless wings as he 
glides and circles on wind currents 
which our eyes cannot see! Watch a 
warbler searching the leaves and 
branches for food for his family! How 
quickly he climbs under and over the 
twigs, with somehow time and energy 
left over for song. (Ernest Thompson 
Seton, the great Canadian camping 
naturalist, said there were forty birds 
every good camper should learn to 
know and protect.) 

Certainly birds show God’s care, and 
their songs must be a real part of His 
praise. 


Have you ever examined a bird’s 
feather? Find one today, and look 
closely at it. What will you see? Utter 
perfection of design! If it is a flight 
feather from wing or tail, it will have a 
strong, hollow central rib and thou¬ 
sands of small ribs joined to it. 

There are other feathers of quite 
different pattern designed to protect 
the bird from sun and cold and these 
are perfectly adapted to their task too. 
Yes, a loving, wise God, with infinite 
care has created the tiniest feather. 

Do you know enough about the mi¬ 
gration of birds to marvel at it? Some 
birds have been known to visit the same 
spot on the tip of South America and 
return to the same Canadian barn to 
nest year after year. How? It is not 
less a part of God’s work if we say it 
is done by instinct, or that the birds 
have ability to follow lines of magnetic 
force. 

Jesus saw that people thought birds 
were of no importance. And yet, He 
knew that God cared for the fall of 
even one bird. Why are people so 
indifferent to the care and design of 
God, which is all around them? At 
Camp you have a chance to see God’s 
work close at hand in new ways. Be on 
the look-out for marks of His wisdom 
and care. Where will you look? 


Toronto, Canada, June, 1957 


19 


Prayer: 

Father, who has made the world so 
full of wonder, open our eyes to see 
Thy works. We thank Thee for the 
birds of the air, their beauty and their 
songs. We acknowledge Thy care for 
them, and for us. Make us more worthy 
of all Thou hast done in loving us and 
caring for us. May we please Thee in 
thought and deeds this day. Amen. 

God and a Butterfly Wing 

There are four things which are little 
upon earth, but they are exceeding 
wise: The ant . . . the conies (rab¬ 
bits) . . . the locust (grasshoppers) 

. . . the spider. 

Proverbs 30:24-28. 

Read Psalm 19. 

Phyllis and Dave and Professor Rob¬ 
erts were walking along a road this 
spring, when Dave picked up a dead 
Swallowtail butterfly. He was just on 
the point of throwing it away and 
brushing the yellow dust from his 
fingers when Professor Roberts said, 
“Wait, let’s put a bit of the yellow dust 
under a microscope.” 

When they had the microscope fixed 
so that they could see the tiny flecks of 
colour from the butterfly wing mag¬ 
nified sixty times, Phyllis exclaimed, 
“Why they shine like diamonds.” 
“They’re shaped like fish scales, but all 
dazzling with lights and colours,” said 
Dave. 

“Yes, every butterfly’s wing, seem¬ 
ingly so fragile and unimportant, has 
been created with the beauty of pre¬ 
cious jewels,” said Professor Roberts. 
“It is just one more bit of evidence of 
the marvellous handiwork and care of 
God.” 


“I never thought a butterfly could 
teach us God’s care,” said Dave. 

“If we were wise enough to see, we 
would be lost in ‘wonder, love and 
praise’ as an old hymn puts it,” the 
professor remarked. 

“We ought to write another verse 
to that hymn ‘This is my Father’s 
world’,” said Phyllis. “It is not only in 
‘rocks and treev. and skies and seas’; but 
in so many, many things that we should 
see God.” 

God has so organized the vast world 
of nature that each creature follows a 
wonderfully planned pattern of beauty 
of structure and form. But it is God 
who is behind the plan. 

“Who would have thought that His 
planning included the beauty of the 
scales on every butterfly’s wing?” said 
Phyllis, thoughtfully. 

“The very hairs of your head are 
numbered,” quoted Dave. 

“God who touchest earth with beauty, 

Make me lovely too; 

With Thy spirit re-create me. 

Make my heart anew.” 

Prayer: 

God of all wonder, forgive me for 
the way I have stumbled through Thy 
glorious world without seeing Thy 
work. Teach me to expect to find Thy 
wonders always about me. Help me to 
walk this day glad of Thy care, tread¬ 
ing Thy world with the glad step of 
Thy child, and praising Thee in word 
and deed. Amen. 


20 


Canadian Camping 



IDEAS 


FOR RAINY DAYS 


PREPARED FOR RAINY DAY SESSION 
ONTARIO CAMPING ASSOCIATION 1957 CONFERENCE 

By Nancy Porter and Barry Lowes 


ACTIVITY REMARKS 

Star Lore . Make Star Boxes 

Disections . Dr., nurse, medical student do disection 

First Aid . All campers should learn basic first aid 

Crafts Projects . Work on crafts in cabin 

Cabin sign or project . Work on cabin project, plan or make 

Artificial Respiration . Learn and practice regularly 

Water Safety Knowledge . Instruct and quiz 

Health and Beauty . Exercises, modern dance techniques 

Charm classes . Good grooming sessions 

Scavenger Hunt . Put dry objects on the list 

Hike in the rain . Dress properly, warm and dry immediately 

Plan trip . Plan overnight or canoe trips 

Cabin plaque . Names on plaque to hang permanently 

Combatives . Arm wrestling, leg, cock fight, neckpull 

Hide the Button . British bulldog, Bull in the ring 

Square and Folk Dancing .Practice simple calls before hand. 

Assistance for each square. 

Relay Races . Make these novelty races. 

Movies . Red Cross, Imperial Oil, N.F.B. 

Indoor obstacle course . Set up course, time contestants 

Simon Says . A fast imaginative leader is needed 

Musical chairs . If chairs not available use knees 

Dodgcball ... Indoors an old pillow can be used 

Change Motions. Start in circle all clapping, leader 

changes motion, IT guesses who 

Chain Laugh . Ha . . . Ha Ha . . . Ha Ha Ha . . . Ha Ha Ha Ha 

Hop Scotch Tournament . Chalk squares on Rec. Hall floor 

Touch and Smell. Blindfold guess object by touch, smell 

Pyramid Building . Build simple pyramids 

Shell and Stone Hunting . Dress properly, hunt stones and shells along shore 

Tumbling . Simple stunts 

Rough and Tumble . Sr. and Jr. Counsellors take on rest of cabin 

Song Fcst . Make up new songs, present to camp 

Around piano, guitar near fireplace, 
jacks . Hold Unit tournament 

SUGGESTED REFERENCES 

1. FUN ENCYCLOPEDIA—L. O. Harbin, Abingdon; Cokesbury. 

2. PROGRAM ENCYCLOPEDIA—Duran, Association Press. 

3. ACTIVE GAMES AND CONTESTS—Mason & Mitchell. 

4. SOCIAL RECREATION—Mason. 


Toronto, Canada, June, 1957 


21 




































continued from page 18 

successful mothers. Theirs is a truly 
happy home. 

Is it any wonder that over two hun¬ 
dred ex-Sunfish leaders responded to 
the invitation to a farewell dinner for 
Bill Bell upon his retirement? Although 
the head table was crowded with digni¬ 
taries whose presence marked the deep 
respect oi the community Bill had 
served, the real spirit was felt by the 
grown men who had been inspired in 
their youth by this self-effacing, prac¬ 


tical man who had influenced their 
lives by his forthright honesty and 
Christian living. We all know Bill is 
too young to retire and so it comes as 
no surprise to learn that he is continu¬ 
ing his camping, and is now associated 
with Camp Douglas in Algonquin Park. 
Hands that have never been idle can¬ 
not even he still during the winter, and 
it you would like to see some original 
ideas in camp and cottage furniture, 
visit Bill’s workshop in his home. Opal 
still has to call him twice when dinner 
is served. 



AM 








%lT7T7n 


'and. 


The "World’s safest pier” provides a non-skid, rust- 
resistant, eool deck surface that lasts a lifetime. Sturdy, 
steady, strong, easy to set up, take down and store. 
Available in any size, shape or combination. Complete 
accessories include: benches, ladders, diving platforms, 
lifeguard towers, steps, signal lights, mooring arms — 
all designed for quick, easy installation. 

MODERNIZE your lake front with a STANDARD STEEL PIER. Write 
for details — or send us a rough sketch for free recomtnendations 
and prices. 




PRODUCTS MFG. CO. 


America’s Leading Producer of Modern Waterfront Equipment MHwqJkee 8 ?5 f wiltinsfi 


22 


Canadian Camping 





HtALTH and SAfCT» 

Id CAMP 

J. H. Ebbs, M.D.,F.R.C.P.(C) 

Medical Director, Taylor Statten Camps, Canada 

An Address to the Ontario Camping Association, February, 1957 


There is a constantly changing picture 
in the health field as it affects children. 
This has become very noticable in the 
experiences at summer camps. Whereas 
twenty years ago our chief problems 
were concerned with infections of all 
kinds as well as physical injury, we find 
that today the type of infection, and to 
some extent the injuries, are of a differ¬ 
ent type and fortunately are generally 
less severe. Today I hope to point out 
just a few of the present day problems 
which face us in health and safety 
supervision in organized camps. 

Poliomyelitis 

One of the most dreaded infections 
in summer camps in the past has been 
that of poliomyelitis. The wide-spread 
use of poliomyelitis vaccine will gradu¬ 
ally eliminate, to a large degree, this 
disease. However, it should be remem¬ 
bered that it has by no means had 
universal application as yet, it is not 
one hundred percent effective and there 
will always be those persons who either 
have not been vaccinated, or who have 
lost some of their immunity. The health 
information certification should have a 
place for recording whether or not the 
child has been given the complete 
course of poliomyelitis vaccine. This is 
of great assistance in the event that any 
child becomes ill with signs and symp¬ 
toms resembling those of poliomyelitis. 
The disease is no longer a disease limited 
to young children, and staff members 


should also be questioned regarding 
their immunization. 

“Summer Flu” 

Diarrhoea and vomiting have occurred 
in isolated cases and often in epidemics 
in summer camps and summer resorts 
for many years. Such outbreaks are 
sometimes associated with food poison¬ 
ing. The food becomes contaminated 
and the poison from the infecting germs 
is in sufficient concentration to cause a 
stomach and bowel upset. The foods 
most commonly affected in this way 
are unrefrigerated custards, soups, pie 
fillings, and occasionally meat and milk. 
Such food poisoning usually affects a 
large number of persons at the same 
time. 

On the other hand, intestinal infec¬ 
tion such as dysentery can be spread by 
food, principally fresh foods, and also 
by water. Water contamination can 
take place either through untreated 
drinking water or in swimming areas. 
In such epidemics the cases do not occur 
all at the same time. The patients have 
nausea, vomiting and very often fever. 
The duration of the disease is much 
longer than with food poisoning. 

Summer camps are also a common 
place for simple gastroenteritis resulting 
from over-eating, or associated with 
excessive excitement or physical activity 
in certain children. 


Toronto, Canada, June, 1957 


23 



“Pink Eye” 

The second major group of diseases 
often labelled “summer flu” comprises 
the cases of “Pink Eye” with sore 
throat, fever and glands. In the last 
few years research at the Banting Insti¬ 
tute in Toronto has revealed that a 
specific group of viruses can be respon¬ 
sible for epidemics of this disease. There 
are several types of virus called “A.P.C. 
virus” which, unfortunately, is resistant 
to the new antibiotic drugs. However, 
a vaccine has hccn developed by the 
United States Army which may prove 
of help in the future. 

“Pink Eye” usually starts in one eye 
with redness, irritation, watering and 
some swelling. It is associated with a 
sore, red throat and a spiking fever 
which varies from 100° to 105° in 
different cases. The temperature lasts 
from one to eight days but usually is 
only two or three days duration. The 
opposite eye is affected in most cases. 
The child complains that it feels as 
though there is ‘sand in the eye’. About 
eight percent of them have enlargement 
of the glands, particularly in the neck. 
The older children will complain of 
headache and general discomfort. In 
many there is nausea and vomiting and 
they may also complain of discomfort 
in the abdomen. A few patients become 
more ill with higher fever and aching 
of the muscles. One-third of the cases 
develop infection in the ears. The con¬ 
valescence is short, although one in ten 
has to be readmitted for further treat¬ 
ment. 

Because of the association with swim¬ 
ming areas the disease has often been 
called ‘swimming bath conjunctivitis’. A 
recent study in a large camp in the 
United States showed that in the month 
of July there was a small epidemic of 
what appeared to be the common cold 
with some fever, followed in the month 
of August by a large epidemic of A.P.C. 
virus disease. The virus can b.c recov¬ 


ered from the water of swimming areas 
and probably is the principal source of 
spread. 

Treatment of the individual case is 
of concern to the medical and nursing 
staff at the camp. Prevention of the 
spread of the disease is best carried out 
by isolating the patient during the acute 
stage of the disease and of decentraliz¬ 
ing group swimming. Enclosed swim¬ 
ming areas should be opened if possible 
or not used. Any patient with any sign 
of infection should be excluded from 
swimming areas with other campers. 

Accidents 

It is interesting to note in the list of 
causes of death in Canada in the past 
six years that lightning accounts for 
from eight to twenty deaths a year. 
Many camps are located on lakes and 
streams and it is probably a wise pre¬ 
caution to advise leaders of trips to 
avoid exposed areas on the water or 
land, or near isolated trees during sev¬ 
ere .electrical storms. The great impor¬ 
tance of proper and long-continued 
respiration in persons electrocuted from 
any cause cannot be over-emphasized. 

Water Skiing 

The tremendous increase in this water 
sport has caused many camp directors 
to examine this form of recreation and 
to consider the risks involved and safety 
precautions necessary. Apart from the 
cost of the equipment and the fact that 
few persons can participate at one time, 
the hazards are very apparent. Even a 
strong swimmer can get into difficulties 
when travelling at high speed, particu¬ 
larly if the water is struck with the 
mouth open or with a sudden rush of 
water through the nose causing obstruc¬ 
tion to breathing. The danger of be¬ 
coming tangled in the rope or handle 
can be lessened by supplying proper 

continued on page 49 


24 


Canadian Camping 



IDEAS . . . 

FOR TRAPPING SMALL MAMMALS 

Barry G. Lowes, Director , Camp New Moon 


Since most animals prowl about while 
we are asleep, it is quite possible for a 
camper to be at camp all summer and 
never see a wild animal ... in fact, 
few campers do. This is truly a shame, 
for, what child’s curiosity isn’t aroused 
by a small furry creature which can be 
handled and observed. However, the 
first problem is: how to catch these 
nocturnal animals. Of all traps yet 
devised, the simplest is still probably 
the most successful. Here is how it 
works: 

Take any large tin can (even a big 
galvanized wash tub is suitable), bury 
it flush with ground level or one-quarter 
of an inch below. The can may be left 
dry, or an inch of water may be poured 
into the bottom of it. If the water is 
too deep, the animals will drown. 

Dig one of these traps into the side 
of a creek bank, about one foot back 
from the water’s edge. Plant another 
in an open field, for shrews, mice, moles 
and so on. 

No bait is necessary. The animal 
simply falls into it while prowling 
around at night without a flashlight. 
(A good moral for campers!). 

You may say: “The odds of some¬ 
thing falling into a trap are too slim”. 
On the contrary, the countryside at 
night is teeming with life. It will sur¬ 
prise me if you do not catch some 
animal almost every night. 

The greatest thrill comes from cam¬ 
pers setting out their own trap or com¬ 


plete trap line. Each morning finds 
them racing to see what the previous 
night has produced. (This could be 
the answer to the problem of early 
risers). 

The range of small mammals that 
you will trap over the period of a 
summer will astound you. These crea¬ 
tures can be kept in the camp zoo or 
museum for a few days, while they are 
positively identified and their habits 
observed. Then they should be released. 

It is almost impossible to keep an 
animal alive for long in captivity. It is 
just too difficult to simulate their wild 
diet or satisfy their voracious appetites. 

Some campers may want to learn how 
to skin animals or prepare specimens 
for stuffing, or even to stuff them. 
Whatever is done, it is an activity that 
is guaranteed to capture the interest of 
campers 

Write in next fall and let us hear 
about some of your catches. 

Insect Zoos 

Does the term “insect zoo” sound 
too far-fetched to you? Small and easy 
to maintain, these miniature zoos can 
be endless sources of fascination for 
campers. 

Catching insects, pinning them to 
boards, and labelling them, does serve 
a purpose, but keeping insects alive so 
that they can be observed is far more 

continued on page 51 


Toronto , Canada, June, 1957 


25 



anoeutg, 


• • • 


Canadian Jdeiitage 


By Mary Porter 



PART III — ITS MODERN ASPECTS 


There are four types of modem canoe 
used in Canada to-day,namely: wooden 
canvas, kayak, and aluminium. Wooden 
and canvas canoes arc sturdy, graceful 
and smooth. They are manufactured 
by the white man and modelled after 
the Indian birch-bark craft. 

The basswood canoe is the most 
common form of wooden canoe. It is 
made of thin boards of basswood placed 
over hardwood ribs six inches apart. 
Strips of hardwood are used to batten 
the cracks. Another form is the longi¬ 
tudinal strip canoe, made of inch cedar 
strips running from end to end and 
placed over hardwood ribs, like the 
basswood only closer together. A third 
form is the cedar rib canoe, made 
entirely of inch wide arched ribs fitted 
together with only two or three longi¬ 
tudinal strips besides the gunwales and 
keel. The cedar form is strong and 
light. The basswood is even stronger 
but it absorbs more water and by the 
end of the season is very heavy. Most 


wooden canoes must soak up water to 
tighten their seams. Therefore, trippers 
prefer canvas canoes which are lighter 
on portages. All Canadian wooden can¬ 
oes arc made without seats but have a 
thwart instead. These are chosen by 
racers for their speed and lightness, for 
they do not have time to get soaked. 
For river work, Canadian woodsmen 
prefer the wooden canoe which is less 
apt to he seriously damaged by rocks. 

The sixteen-foot canvas canoe, or 
“Peterborough”, as it is known in some 
districts, or the “Canadian” type as it 
is known in Europe, is the best all 
purpose canoe. Its smooth outer surface 
offers little friction to the water. This 
surface is made of processed, painted 
canvas, which is placed on top of thin 
cedar planks, which in turn are on top 
of the cedar ribs. The canvas canoe has 
a keel, gunwales and wicker seats. This 
craft has many notable features: water- 


26 


Canadian Camping 



tight, buoyant, stable, smooth surface, 
light weight, solid construction, keeps 
its shape, will stand hard knocks, and 
can be easily repaired. Is it little won¬ 
der that it soon replaced the earlier 
forms? Drying in the sun does not 
open its seams. 

The modern kayak has already been 
described. The “foldboat” or folding 
kayak is a recent form popular in 
Europe. This small craft may be pro¬ 
pelled by paddle, sail or outboard 
motor. It is easily transferable, for the 
framework and canvas can be taken 
apart and carried in a dunnage bag. 
The foldboat has been suggested as a 
means to a new kind of holiday. 

Aluminium, a new material tried in 
America, provides watertight bulkheads. 
The aluminium canoe is easy to take 
care of and comparatively light to por¬ 
tage. However, some criticize it as 
being too hot in sunlight, too noisy in 


high waves, and too easily punctured 
by rocks. Fiberglas, plywood and plastic 
are the latest experimental materials 
whose merits can only be determined by 
time, wear and tear. 

These manufactured canoes are not 
so very different from the native variety 
for, “the large freight canoe of the fur 
trading days and the Indian war canoe 
have their modem counterpart in the 
canvas covered freighters still in use in 
Canada’s north country, and in the war 
canoe of the regatta”. The Peterbor¬ 
ough Canoe Company makes a wooden 
longitudinal strip, and five types of can¬ 
vas covered canoes as well as five styles 
of paddles of which the beavertail is 
recommended for all-purpose paddling. 

Canoeing as a sport for recreation has 
many aspects. It may take the form of: 
hunting, fishing, tripping, camping, rac¬ 
ing and sailing. Thousands of vaca- 

continued on page 30 


HEADQUARTERS FOR TOP CAMP ENTERTAINMENT 



WARNER RROS. PICTURES 

Distributing Company, Ltd. 

16MM DIVISION 



Now Available 

A WIDE VARIETY OF PROGRAMS 

in English and French! 

Extra 16 mm. Shorts • 16 mm. Cartoons • 16 mm. 2-Reel Specials 


70 Carlton St. 
TORONTO 

5957 Monkind Ave. 
MONTREAL 


Contact Your Nearest 

WARNER BROS. BRANCH 


12 Hazen Ave. 

ST. JOHN 

2180 West 12th Ave. 
VANCOUVER 


295 Colony St. 
WINNIPEG 

704 8th Ave. W. 
CALGARY 


Toronto , Canada, June, 1957 


27 




DUEL 


We have Miss Mary Barker t . 

of the Y.W.C.A. of Canada, 
to thank for editing this De- ! 

partment of your magazine. .J 


OUR PARENTS VISIT CAMP ALMOST ANY TIME 

We believe that the closest possible communication should be maintained 
between the camp, the child and the parent. How better can we do this than to 
welcome a visit from the parent? Our reason for this “open season” on parent- 
visiting, is that we believe they like to see their children in the day-to-day camp 
programme. When parents are in camp, all the activities are in normal progress, 
and they can wander from one to the other as observers. In some activities, their 
child will be participating; in others she will act as hostess, introducing her camper 
and counsellor friends. 

Week-ends are popular visiting days, therefore we keep our Saturday pro¬ 
gramme similar to the other days of the week. Sunday is different. It is a good 
day for visiting with staff personnel, but not for seeing camp programme in full 
swing. 

We believe it is important that the children feel that their parents are 
welcome to visit them at any time. Some children need this for security. A good 
director-parent relationship will assure that the visits come at a convenient time, 
and are not too long or too frequent. We do ask the parents not to visit until 
after the first two weeks, and then to check that their child will be in camp rather 
than on a trip, we do not let visits interfere with canoe-trips. Enjoying a visit 
together is one of the few ways that a parent and child can share the camp 
experience. 


28 


Canadian Camping 






ISSUES 


This month’s Issue arose from 
provocative discussions at one 
or two Executive Meetings. 
What do you think? 


WE PLAN OUR VISITING DAY AT CAMP 

The purpose of visiting at camp is to give parents and camper the opportunity 
and pleasure of spending time together in the camp setting. The visit should result 
in a better understanding of what the camp experience has meant to the child, and 
enable them to discuss with him his evaluation of camp life. To achieve this result 
the parent should meet the counsellors, his cabin-mates, explore the camp-site, see 
him perform in his favourite activities, and chat with the director. 

A planned visitors’ day fulfils all these requirements without the negative 
aspects of unplanned visiting. There is no disruption of programme, such as occurs 
when a child is withdrawn from an activity when his parents arrive. There is no 
disappointment in his cabin-mates because their parents did not surprise them. 
Some children feel rejected when their parents do not come as often as they seem 
to feel other parents visit. Frequent interruptions by different parents within the 
same cabin involve further upsets to some campers and certainly to their group 
programmes. The counsellor is withdrawn from his responsibilities to his group in 
order to give the parent the opportunity to discuss the child’s adjustment. These 
frequent interruptions during a camp season are considerably disturbing. The 
director, too, must spend too much time of each day with visiting parents. Parents 
from distant cities find frequent unscheduled visits an inconvenience, and they 
have, without exception requested one planned visiting day. They recognize 
frequent visits offset the advantages that camp has to offer. 

There are displays of Arts and Crafts projects, scenery from dramatic pro¬ 
ductions, nature lore acquisitions and such. The instructors are all available to 
discuss progress in skills and in some activities it is possible for the child to 
demonstrate his progress. 


Toronto, Canada, June, 1957 


29 



For 

• Expert Advice 

• on 

• Labour Saving 

• and efficient 

• Gas Appliances 

• for your Camp 

• Consult 

SUPERIOR 

PROPANE 

Limited 

26 St. Clair Ave. E. 
Toronto - WA. 4-7441 


, SPECIALISTS 
in 

Camp Medical Supplies 

^ V 

and 

First Aid Kits 


A convenient Special fre-Written 
Order Form for requisitioning your 
camp medical supplies is FREE on 
request. 

Write or Phone . , . 

Ingram & Bell 

LIMITED 
TORONTO 

Montreal - Winnipeg 
Calgary - Vancouver 


tioners participate in the various aspects 
of this sport every year. 

The Canadian Canoe Association was 
founded in 1900 and its headquarters 
were at Grindstone Island, one of the 
Thousand Islands in the St. Lawrence. 
Its purpose was to co-ordinate the activ¬ 
ities of the Canadian clubs and to fac¬ 
ilitate the holding of competitions both 
in paddling and sailing with the Amer¬ 
ican Canoe Association. It has held 
annual championship regattas every 
year since its founding, for fifty years. 

Canoeing was included in the Olym¬ 
pic Games as an official event for the 
first time in 1936. The mens’ events 
were: the 1,000 and 10,000 meter races 
for one- and two-seater kayaks and for 
one-and two-seater “Canadian” type 
canoes. There was a 500 meter, one- 
seater kayak event for women. The 
results of the competition in Berlin sur¬ 
prised those who thought that the great 
canoeists came from North America, 
when Czechoslovakia, Austria, and Ger¬ 
many took top honors. 

The Canadian Government has done 
much to encourage recreational canoe¬ 
ing. The Departments of Transport, 
National Development, and Natural 
Resources all publish pamphlets on 
canoe trips, routes, and camping. There 
are mainly promotion folders of ro¬ 
mance and adventure, aimed at attract¬ 
ing the American tourist. The Depart¬ 
ment of Lands and Forests publishes 
The Algonquin Story which shows the 
development of the Park from the first 
survey trip to Tom Thomson’s time. 
Visitors flock to the memorial of that 
famous artist, woodsman and guide. 
The Park area has become a very pop¬ 
ular canoe tripping centre and is the 
home of a number of childrens’ camps. 
Many suggested canoe routes follow the 
old routes taken by the Indian and the 
fur trader. 

continued on page 50 




30 


Canadian Camping 



IDEAS 


FOR TABLOID ACTIVITIES 

Barry G. Lowes, Director, Camp New Moon 


Tabloid meets and contests are an 
effective way of encouraging large num¬ 
bers of people to engage in recreational 
activities. Once learned, the principle 
of tabloid activities can be applied to 
many types of camp programmes, e.g. 
track meets, social games, stunts, arch¬ 
ery, swimming, etc. Rather than cater¬ 
ing to a few stars, tabloid meets provide 
activity, enjoyment and incentive for 
people of all ability levels. Competition 
is against standards which can be 
adjusted up or down to suit the group 
level. While tabloid meets are valuable 
and can be run off swiftly, they do 
require organization. 

STANDARDS AND SCORING 

The scoring in a tabloid meet is done 
on the basis of whether or not a com¬ 
petitor meets the required standard. It 
is not so important to be the best as it 
is to achieve the predetermined stand¬ 
ard. 

Prior to the meet, the officials decide 
what the standards should be. 

If the event calls for time (running), 
distance (throwing), height (jumping), 
the time, distance, or height that the 
average person could be expected to 
attain is taken as the standard. 

In the case of items of skill such as 
water safety, diving, etc., the standard 
becomes the successful completion of the 
skill as determined by what the average 
camper can do. 


There are two ways of scoring: the 
single standard and the double stand¬ 
ard. 

a. In the single standard method, a 
standard of performance is set 
for each event. A competitor 
who attains that standard scores 
1 point for his team. If he fails, 
no point is scored. 

b. In the double standard method, 
two standards of performance are 
set: a high and a low. Most 
should be able to attain the low 
standard and few should be able 
to attain the high standard. Any 
competitor who attains the high 
standard scores two points; if he 
fails, he may try the lower stand¬ 
ard; if he succeeds, he scores one 
point; if he fails, no score is made. 
(The double standard system is 
usually considered the better 
method. 

Team Standing 

To decide the winning team, the team 
standings are used NOT the total points 
gained. Thus, the team that finishes 
with the greatest number of points in an 
event would be credited with “1st 
place”, second largest would be “2nd 
place” and so on. When these places 
are totalled for all the events, the team 
with the “lowest score” would be the 
winner. 

Teams 

Any number of campers may partici¬ 
pate. Divide the group into the same 


Toronto, Canada, June, 1957 


31 


number of teams as you have events. 
Six to eight on a team is considered best 
in most cases. You may wish to use 
cabin groups. You can mix campers of 
all ages just by setting up separate 
standards for each age group. Number 
the events and number the teams. 

Locate the- events so that the teams 
can rotate from one event on to the 
next when the signal is given by the 
person directing the meet. He gives the 
signal when all the teams have com¬ 


pleted an event. On the signal all the 
teams move on to the next event, 
according to a pre-arranged plan. 

Meet Officials 

A meet director is placed in charge of 
the meet. Judges are stationed at each 
event and then determine the successful 
attempts made by the team members. 

The judge enters the team total on a 
score card and it is then taken to the 
master scorer. 


Example of Judges’ Card 
Team ..... Events . 


Passed High Standard......._. Points 

Passed JLow Standard . ” 

Failed ” 

Total Points 


Judge’s Signature 
Example of Master Score Chart 


Team No. 

Event 1 

Event 2 

Event 3 

Total 

Final 

Points Place 

Points Place 

Points Place 

Places 

Standing 

1 

■ 





2 






3 






etc. ,' 







A FEW SUGGESTED EVENTS 

These suggested events are only a 
beginning. You will devise many excel¬ 
lent ones at your own camp. 

Track and Field 

100 yd. dash, high jump, broad jump, 
standing broad jump, baseball throw, 
discus, shot put, etc. 

Social Stunts 

(Ideal for rainy day carnival). 

1. Shoot out a candle with a water 
pistol from 10-12 feet distance. 
Give each player three shots. 

2. Pitch pennies into a saucer float¬ 
ing in a pail of water from five 
feet way. 


3. From eye level drop clothespins 
into a milk bottle. 

4. Bounce table tennis balls into tin 
cans or an egg carton from 10-12 
feet distance. 

5. Inhaling through a straw, pick up 
as many peas as possible from one 
plate and transfer them to another 
plate five feet away in fifteen sec¬ 
onds. 

Think how this tabloid principle 
could be used for a day of woodcraft 
events, swimming, canoeing, team sports 
on land or in the water. The possibili¬ 
ties are infinite. With careful prepara¬ 
tion they will become important. pro¬ 
grammes for you too. 


32 


Canadian Camping 























FOODCRAFT Specialized foods are ideal for camp feeding 

because of simplicity of preparation, cost and waste control, maximum 
nutritive value, natural flavour and exceptional quality generally. 

Most camps use FOODCRAFT products. They combine 'home-made'' 
characteristics with commercial efficiency and are guaranteed in 
every respect. 


Soup Bases 
Gravy Base 
Soup Vegetables 
Salad Dressing 
Cake Mixes 


Creme Pudding Mix 
Pie Fillings 
Meringue Powder 
Bread Spreads 
Hot Chocolate 


Jam and Marmalade 
Beverage Concentrates 
Sundae Toppings 
Table Syrup 
Flavours 


NEW — Bread Spreads in three flavours — Butterscotch, Toffee, Caramel 


60 CANADIAN LANDSCAPES 

Two of the 60 silk screen reproductions faithfully reproduced in 
lull colour by some 35 representative Canadian Artists, including: 
A. Y. Jackson, I om Thomson, Arthur Lismer and Charles Comfort. 
Sponsored by the National Gallery of Canada, these reproductions are 
particularly suitable for dining areas, lounge rooms and individual cabins. 

Send for our illustrated catalogue with details of sizes and prices. 

SAMPSON-MATTHEYVS LIMITED, DEPT. C.C., 1189 YONGE ST. 
TORONTO ONTARIO 


PURE MAPLE SYRUP 1957 PACK — reasonably priced 
Three day delivery in Ontario and Quebec 



33 



jfor Hour Camp library 


Dorothy M. Douglas 

formerly Executive Secretary , O.C.A. 


“A good, camp library is as important as boats and a waterfront .” This is not 
your reviewer speaking but two camp directors who are also parents, Kenneth and 
Susan Webb, co-authors of SUMMER MAGIC. We should like to add that this 
good camp library could, in fact, be three libraries — or at least three shelves — 
one for the directors, one for the counsellors, and one for the campers. Nowhere 
are there better opportunities or so many ideal settings for reading or being read to 
aloud on a mossy bank under the trees, swinging in a hammock, curled up on a 
bunk, cosy by an open fire while rain beats on the roof — stories told around the 
campfire, under rustling leaves in an outdoor chapel. Books stretch the imagina¬ 
tion, help to sort out human values, stimulate ideas, give us keener insight into the 
dreams and motivations of other people. And at camp we aren’t told what to read, 
we can choose. Reading, too, can serve to counter-balance the intense physical and 
creative activity that we find in the camp programme, refreshing and relaxing 
those who read alone, or who sit together to listen, relieved for the time of the 
pressure of social intercourse. Don’t let us plan a camp programme that crowds 
out.such pauses at this well of refreshment. 


MAKE YOUR OWN SAILS 

R. M. Bowker and S. A. Budd 

This reviewer being much more con¬ 
versant with sails from the aesthetic 
than the practical viewpoint, is hesitant 
to make observations on a book dealing 
with a technical aspect of sailing. We 
tried to hunt up one of our keen sailing 
friends to obtain an expert opinion — 
only to find they had gone to Bermuda 
for Easter — to sail! However it 
would seem evident that this handbook 
with its many plates and diagrams 
could be immensely helpful both as a 
guide in the purchasing of commercially 
made sails as well as to the making of 


one’s own. Camps with a skipper or 
skipper and staff in charge of sailing 
might like to consider with them the 
advantages of making some of the 
camps’ sails. There are chapters on 
the theory and practice of sails and 
sailmaking, sailcloths, sailmaking oper¬ 
ations, the stretching of new sails, their 
care and maintenance, renovation, re¬ 
pair and alteration. While written in 
England the book covers the many 
different purposes and conditions for 
which sails can be designed, various 
types of craft and rigging. Macmillan 
& Co. Ltd. publish a number of other 
books on sailing and seamanship. 
Macmillan Co. of Canada Ltd., $2.00. 


34 


Canadian Camping 






A SPORTSMAN’S NOTEBOOK 

Ivan Turgenev 

For the camp director’s drowsy after¬ 
noon in the hammock under the trees 
or for the counsellor’s day off, this 
collection of short stories or sketches 
of rural life in the Russia of 100 years 
ago is beautiful reading. Sensitive to 
the beauties of nature (which are lovely 
now just as a century ago!) and to 
the enchantment that lies in the infinite 
variety of personalities one meets in 
one’s rambles, Turgenev weaves words 
skillfully together in a tapestry of tales. 
He could not bear the moral climate 
of the Russia of his day and so he lived 
in France, wielding his pen to plead 
the cause of the brutalized serfs of his 
homeland. Not by claiming for them 
their “rights” does he do this, but 
rather by letting his readers discover 
how human, often admirable, and 
nearly always lovable these people are. 
Sherwood Anderson has called this book 
“the sweetest thing in all literature.” 
A Compass Book of Viking Press, 
distributed by Macmillan Co. of Can¬ 
ada Ltd., $1.69. 

POSTCARDS FOR THE 
CAMP TUCKSHOP 

Did you know that there is a series 
of postcards of BIRDS OF CANADA 
prepared by the National Museum of 
Canada, which are reproductions in 
full colour of paintings by Alan Brooks 
and E. G. Hennessy of fifty different 
birds showing both male and female 
in a typical setting? On each card is 
also a description of the bird, its size, 
markings, special characteristics and 
habitant. 

The scries of fifty comes in a package 
costing $1.00 (or 2c each), and may be 
obtained from The Queen’s Printer, 
Ottawa, Ontario. Why not order a 
supply of these to supplement your 
camp postcards at the Tuck Shop, or 
to decorate a lounge or cabins? 

continued on page 36 


For ... 

The Camp Library 

by Margaret Govan 

THE TRAIL OF THE RED CANOE 

Four girls have an exciting adventure 
during a canoe trip in Algonquin 
Park. $2.25 

THE TRAIL OF THE 
BROKEN SNOWSHOE 

Betty Morton and her American 
friend, Judy, again find adventure 
when they go north to learn to ski 
in Muskoka. $2.25 


by Ronald H. Perry and Carter Storr 

THE CANOE AND YOU 

An excellent practical guide to padd¬ 
ling prepared by two experts. $1.50 

CANOE TRIP CAMPING 

This volume provides all the practical 
information necessary for a successful 
canoe trip. $2.50 


THE CHILDREN’S ILLUSTRATED 
CLASSICS 

“In every respect this is an edition to 
be proud of.” —]unior Bookshelf. 

27 titles available at $1.98, and 9 in 
a larger format at $2.25. 


Recently published — 

At the Back of the North Wind 
by G. MacDonald. 

A Book of Nonsense edited by 
R. L. Green. 

J. M. DENT & SONS 
(Canada) LTD. 

100 Scarsdalc Road Don Mills 


Toronto, Canada, June, 1957 


35 




Vaunclair PurveyoXA 

Ltd. 

50 Upjohn Road 
Don Mills P.O., Ontario 
Phone: Hickory 4-6601 

“Portion & Quality Controlled 
Meats’* 

The Trend Today is The Portion 
Way 

• 

A complete line of fresh or frozen 
meats cut to your exact require¬ 
ments. Ready for the oven, grill 
or stew. Consult us on your meat 
problems. We have a staff of 
experts at your service. 

• 

"The House of Personalized Service” 



Does ALL Your 
Camp Printing 

Camp bulletins. Headings, Notices, 
Letters, Forms or Booklets. All your 
printing needs quickly and econom¬ 
ically produced by Gestetner, the 
World’s largest manufacturer of 
duplicating machines. A machine to 
suit every need and budget. Perpetual 
assistance and Free replacement of 
parts for Five years. 

Write for our new booklet 
“Printing for Pennies” 

GESTETNER (CANADA) LIMITED 
117 King Street West 
Toronto, Ontario 

Offices in all Principal Cities 


CAMPS AND THEIR 
MODERN ADMINISTRATION 

Hazel K. Allen 

Any book that contains information 
on Camp Management, particularly if 
it carries building plans, drawings ot 
any sort, is always worth adding to 
a Camp Library. Business Managers 
and Directors usually enjoy a book 
that outlines administrative procedures 
— not necessarily because they need 
help but rather because they like to see 
what other people do. And who knows ? 
Perhaps the other people have some 
new ideas. 

Although Hazel Allen’s book is writ¬ 
ten for Y.W.C.A.’s, if you change “her” 
to “him” the book is just as good for a 
boys’ Camp as a girls’. And since the 
author is an experienced Camper, her 
material is helpful and sensible regard¬ 
less of the type of Camp. 

Only two chapters talk about people; 
the others cover the practical aspects 
of running a Camp. There are sug¬ 
gested forms for every occasion — for 
those who like forms. (I guess I haven’t 
provided enough at my Camp). There 
are good reminders about insurance 
coverage, and who pops up at the head 
of a chapter on the Budget but that 
reliable twain “Dimock and Hendry”? 

Camp dietitians should read the 
Chapter on Food and Food Service, 
although I imagine this is old stuff to 
them. Just the same, there are helpful 
ideas and some good menus. 

The Chapters on Camp Sites and 
Building Notes (why aren’t the chap¬ 
ters numbered?) give “ a certain body 
of information which may be helpful” 
and should be especially interesting to 
those who enjoy the building end of a 
summer Camp. 

As for me I enjoyed the book and am 
definitely adding a copy to my Camp 
Library. George J. McLeod, Limited, 
Toronto. $1.75. 

R. H. Perry 

— • 


36 


Canadian Camping 




WOODf(R£ 


AMD 


Camdu-ucmt 


So many of Miss Mary Edgar’s poems 
seem to fit so perfectly into the camp 
worship service. This month’s collection 
has been requested from time to time, 
so this page will be made available in 
re-print form to any camp director or 
staff member who writes in for it. 


THE CAMP HYMN 

God who touchest earth with beauty, 
Make my heart anew; 

With Thy Spirit re-create me 
Pure and strong and true. 

Like Thy springs and running waters, 
Make me crystal pure; 

Like Thy rocks of towering grandeur. 
Make me strong and sure. 

Like the dancing waves in sunlight, 
Make me glad and free; 

Like the straightness of the pine trees, 
Let me upright be. 

Like the arching of the heavens, 

Lift my thoughts above; 

Turn my dreams to noble actions, 
Ministries of love. 

God who touchest earth with beauty, 
Make my heart anew; 

Keep me ever by Thy Spirit 
Pure and strong and true. 


A LITTLE BOY’S PRAYER 

Dear Father God, I want to talk 
a little while to You, 

It’s friendlier than saying prayers 
like grown-up people do; 

You see, at night I’m sleepy, 
so I say: “I lay me down”. 

I suppose You hear that same old thing 
from every child in town. 

Perhaps You don’t know who I am! 

I’m John and six in May. 

I never told You that before, 

’cause mother makes me pray. 

I thought You ought to know me, 
and perhaps if I knew You 
You could find some way of showing me 
the things that I could do. 

You must be very busy 
and there surely is a way 
A fellow can be useful, 

more than just to kneel and pray. 
Supposing every morning 

when the day is fresh and new 
I come here in the garden 
to talk a while with You, 

Do you think that You could find for me 
an odd job here and there? 

I’d jolly rather work a lot 
than have to say a prayer! 

continued on page 38 


'Toronto, Canada, June, 1957 


37 


FOR AN OUTDOOR CHAPEL 



2 Ve axe 

HEADQUARTERS 

for 

Tents Flags 

Dunnage Bags 
Pack Sacks 
Sleeping Bags 
Tarpaulins 

Everything in Canvas 

Complete Stock Marine 
Hardware 

—☆— 

JOHNLECKIE 

LIMITED 

Toronto (Head Office) 

St. John's, Nfld. - Halifax 
Quebec - Montreal - Edmonton 
Winnipeg 

Western Leckie Limited 
Vancouver 


Bless this chapel. Lord, we pray, 
Keep it lovely night and day; 

Bless these trees so straight and tall 
Spreading sheltering arms o’er all; 

Bless the sun whose friendly rays 
Bid us lift our hearts in praise; 

Bless the birds that sing above 
Telling of the Father’s love. 

Bless this outdoor chapel, Lord, 
May we listen for Thy word; 

Guide us on the upward way, 

Keep us faithful day by day. 

Bless us in Thy open air 
As we lift to Thee our prayer: 

Now and in the years to be 
Keep us ever true to Thee. 


THE GUARDIAN TREE 

I have a silver birch tree 
To guard my door at night; 

She stands, my Guardian Angel, 

In shining robes of white. 

She lifts to heaven her slender arms 
And I seem to hear her pray 
That God will bless my house, and you, 
And keep all harm away. 


Write to the Ontario Camping Association 
for your copy of this page. There is no charge 
to members of the O.C.A. 


38 


Canadian Camping 




IDEAS . . . 

THE MAGIC OF MOONLIGHT 


Sometime during the two camp per- an hilarious event, since other campers 
iods of moonlight you will want to take will be asleep. But rather should it be 
your cabin group on a Moonlight Walk, a solemn occasion on which to view the 
If you do, you will never regret it, and wonders of the stars, the beauty in the 
your campers will never forget the light-and-shadow of the trees, and per- 
beauty of the familiar camp scenes in haps an opportunity to see some rare 
the silvery garb of the moon’s beams, scurrying animal or night bird. 

There should be some preparation They will never cease to wonder at 
for this special event. Campers should difference moonlight can make to 

be coached beforehand about the familiar landmarks, the glory it can 
necessity for quiet as they stroll S lve to the lake they know so well, 
through the camp at night with their The memor Y o f such an evening will 
counsellor. They should be instructed sta V Wlth cam P er s over the years, and 
to walk carefully, to carry flashlights, we shou,d § lve them . thc opportunity 
to dress warmly if the evening is chilly. §ather such memories . . . with 

very careful forethought, of course. 

The Moonlight Walk should not be _ 9 

NORTHERN ONTARIO'S FINEST RECREATIONAL AREA, FROM 
NORTH BAY TO MOOSONEE, IS SERVED BY 

ONTARIO NORTHLAND RAILWAY 

For information on desirable areas for Camps in new territory 
apply to: 

R. P. C. McLEOD, 

Traffic Manager, 

Ontario Northland Railway, 

North Bay, Ontario. 

FOR CAMPING SATISFACTION 



PADDLES, OARS, AQUA BOARDS, AQUA SKIS, ETC. 

THE PETERBOROUGH CANOE COMPANY LTD. 

PETERBOROUGH ONTARIO - CANADA 


Toronto, Canada, June, 1957 


39 



WHODUZIT? 


-W. E. (Ted) Yard 

Y.M.C.A . Camp Pine crest 


Water safety is a primary concern of a well-organized children’s camp, and 
the educational work of such organizations as “The Red Cross”, “The Royal 
Life”, “The Y.M.C.A.”, “The Camping Association” in this tremendously impor¬ 
tant area, is becoming increasingly significant. 

Teaching swimming, teaching life saving, and teaching care and use of 
watercraft, are all a part of water safety programs. However, the specific area with 
which we shall concern ourselves here is that of IDENTIFICATION . . . 
Assuming that every camper has reached a recognizable level, how are they 
identified so that camp staff can readily recognize whether or not the use of 
certain watercraft is permissable for a particular camper? 

Many camps identify non-swimmers by a tag or neckerchief, which is removed 
when the child passes the elementary test. By this system, a non-swimmer is easily 
identified, but it still does not answer the all-important question — is that camper 
qualified to be in that canoe or boat? 

In one situation, small plastic disks have been used as identification. (Poker 
chips will do well). These are drilled with a power drill a dozen or so at a time 
and a cord is attached. Each disk is then numbered with an indelible marker and 
varnished. Each camper is given a tag with his assigned number. This is worn 
around the neck at all times and is hung on the appropriate hook on the “Buddy 
Board” during swim periods. 

A red disk designates a poor swimmer. 

A white disk designates a fair swimmer. 

A blue disk designates a good swimmer. 

The following levels, privileges, and marks of identification, have proven 
helpful in one situation. 


40 


Canadian Camping 


Non-swimmers wear red bandanas 


I “D” Test or Beginner’s Test: 

1. Swim 50 feet — jump in feet first in deep water. 

Swim 25 feet — turn around — swim 25 feet back. 

Passing “D” test entitles boy to wear red disk and to use punts in shallow enclosed 
area. 

II “C” Test: 

1. Swim 40 yards any style. 

For use of rowboat or in canoe with counsellor. 

Passing “C” Test entitles boy to wear white disk. 

III “B” Test: 

1. Swim 200 yards, any style. j 

• *1 

Is eligible for canoe instruction. Can go out in canoe alone. 

Passing “B” Test entitles boy to wear blue disk. 

IV “A” Test: 

1. Dive or jump into water fully dressed — remove shoes, then tread water 
30 seconds using hands and feet. Remove all clothing and tread water 30 
seconds with hands out of water. Then turn and swim 440 yards without 
stopping, any style. 

Can go on canoe trips. 

Boy passing “A” Test wears no disk. 


ALL SWIMMERS PASSING TESTS OUTSIDE ENCLOSED SWIM AREA 
MUST BE ACCOMPANIED BY A CANOE OR ROWBOAT WITH TWO 
STAFF IN SAME. 

TESTS MUST NOT BE ATTEMPTED BEFORE THE MEDICAL EXAM¬ 
INATIONS ARE MADE. 


Toronto, Canada, June, 1957 


41 




42 


Canadian Camping 







IDEAS 


FOR BUILDING ON A BUDGET 


We had an idea for some time for 
using the frame-work of a large barn 
as the frame-work of our new recrea¬ 
tion hall. I had considered moving the 
frame-work of the barn on our home¬ 
stead in Waterloo, but felt this was too 
great a distance to transport it, so I 
started looking closer to camp. I saw 
one barn near Huntsville that looked 
just right, but found that it was inhab¬ 
ited by two hundred chickens and not 
for sale. 

Consultation with the owner showed 
that a Mr. Gilmour down the road had 
two barns that might be available, and 
since Mr. Gilmour had two sons who 


were campers of ours, he was pleased 
to donate the barns. 

The next problem was dismantling 
and transporting the material. That 
one dissolved when Mr. Gilmour sent 
us to the farmer across the road, an 
expert at dismantling old buildings. 
This man in turn produced the name 
of a crew in Utterson vyho moves such 
buildings, so in no time at all the 
frame-work of Gilmour Hall found its 
way to Comak Isle . 

Ed. Devitt, Director, 
Camp Comak 


SCHNEIDERS 

Fast Frozen 

PORK CHOPS — PORK & BEEF LIVER 
MINUTE STEAKS — PORK & VEAL CUTLETS 

J. M. SCHNEIDER LIMITED 

KITCHENER • ONTARIO 


SUMMER CAMP 

SEPTIC TANK CLEANING SERVICE 

• Yearly contracts or emergency service 
• Septic tanks, grease traps, drains 

• Sanitary, odorless pumping trucks 
• Portable cleaning equipment 

Write/phone for prices or information: 

JOHN E. DEAN CO. LTD. 

Huntsville—947 W 12 Toronto—MEIrose 3-8110 

Orillia — FA. 4-7874 Severn Bridge 25M 



twwnn atm - am rats 


127 Waterloo Ave. 
DOWNSVIEW, Sub. 4 


Toronto, Canada, June, 1957 


43 









We have a Studied Selection 
of Tested and Approved 
Footwear for Children going 
to Summer Camps. Retail 
only. 


WALTER J. CROSS 

M.S.S.Ch., M.S.M.I. 

FOOTWEAR FOR CHILDREN 

4930 Sherbrooke St. W. 
MONTREAL, QUE. 

DExter 1212 

GUMPERT HAS EVERYTHING 


Gelatine Desserts j 

I cream Desserts h dra ,ed) 1 

l "" d C °' OU, ‘ 1 

ter--*-- 

1 CaWe Mixes 

1 c^pi- ll " e 


FOR THE FINEST IN FOODS 


GUMPERT 


HAS EVERYTHING 


S. GUMPERT CO. OF CANADA, LTD. 

31 BROCK AVE., TORONTO ME. 5758 


IDEAS . . . 

FOR THAT THIRD MEAL 

Whether the heavy meal of the day 
is served at noon or after five o’clock 
in the afternoon, there is always a third 
one to contend with, be it Supper or 
Lunch. To get variety into this lighter 
repast is a headache to most dietitians 
or food managers. Perhaps the follow¬ 
ing menus, suggested by directors of 
various camps, might help you in your 
planning for this summer: 

Scalloped Ham and Eggs 
Tossed Salad 
Chocolate Nut Cake 
Pears 
Milk 

* * * 

Macaroni and Cheese 
Tomato Salad 
Plain Cake 
Loganberry Whip 
Milk 

* * * 

Salmon and Peas 

Head Lettuce 

Carrot Strips 

Hot Rolls and Jam 

Cherries 

Cookies 

Milk 

* * * 

Corn Chowder (with chopped meat) 
Baking Powder Biscuits Buttered 
Fruit Salad 

Plain Cake with butter-crisp topping 
Milk 

* * * 

Cream of Tomato Soup 
Make-your-own-sandwiches 

Peanut Butter, Cheese, Chopped 
Egg Mix, Jam 

Meat and pickle mix if available 
etc. 

Bread, butter 
Tello and cookies 
Milk 


44 


Canadian Camping 






French Toast 

Sliced Tomatoes and Cucumber 

Peaches 

Doughnuts 

Milk 

* -x- -x- 

Baked Beans 

Tossed Salad with French Dressing 
Jello with custard sauce 
Cookies 
Milk 

* * * 

Vegetable plate 

Cheese Cubes 
Hot Rolls buttered 
Fruit Upsidedown Cake 
Milk 

* * * 

Wieners 

Cabbage, Raisin and Carrot Salad 

Bread and butter 

Fruit in season 

Doughnuts 

Milk 

* * * 

Cold sliced meat (left-over roast) 
Scalloped potatoes 
Vegetable Salad 
Milk Pudding, Cookies 
Milk 

* * * 

Spaghetti and Cheese Dish 
Scalloped Tomatoes 
Bread and Butter 
Gingerbread and Applesauce 
Milk 

* * * 

Minced Meat Omelette 

Buttered Toast 

Sliced Tomatoes 

Orangc-and-banana salad 

Cookies 

Milk 

45 - * * 

Vegetable Soup 
Scrambled eggs 
Combination Vegetable Salad 
Fresh Berries or Fruit 
Corn Meal Muffins 
Milk 

— • 


HANDICRAFT 

SUPPLIES 

FOR EVERY 
CAMPING NEED 


Visit our showroom at 284 King St. 
West ... let us help you plan your 
handicraft activities. 



EM. 3-5206 


284 KING ST. WEST 
TORONTO - ONTARIO 


IF SAFETY IS A 
FACTOR 

YOU MUST CONSIDER 
AER-O-BUOY 

FLUTTER BOARDS 

FLOAT MARKERS 
RING BUOYS 

PADDLE BOARDS 

• 

BEACH POOL & CAMP 
SUPPLY COMPANY 

Specialists in Aer-O-Buoy 
Buoyancy Products 

Box 97, Oakville, Ontario 


Toronto, Canada, June, 1957 


45 



By Mavis E. Berridge 

Waterfront Adviser, Ontario Council Girl Guides, 
Public Relations Committee, Royal Life Saving Society 


THE SWIMMING 
PROGRAMME 
IN CAMP 


Camp —the place for fun and gay 
adventure, far from the dust and heat 
of the city, where children can live in 
the out-of-doors, climb trees, explore 
woodland trails, travel the waterways 
and sleep under the stars in company 
with, others of their own age and 
interests. 

There are many camps, many pro- , 
grams, many different types of child. 
Most camps are situated by a lake or 
river and most of the children like to 
swim. Movement is a basic human 
need, essential for the healthy growth 
and dfevelopment of every child, and 
water is a medium for movement which 
presents a new and exciting challenge. 
It takes courage to immerse oneself in 
water for the first time, and what a 
sense of achievement that gives . . . 
what exhilaration! What then . . . ? 
How quickly such simple pleasures lose 
their appeal for our more enterprising 
youngsters. 

Progress is required — from dog- 
paddle to crawl — from shallow water 
to deep — from jumping-in to diving. 
Many and various are the ways of 
entering water and moving through it. 
Just as many and various are the dan¬ 


gers and hazards involved. Therefore, 
the camp provides a safe waterfront, 
marked off in areas of shallow and deep 
water, free from rocks and other ob¬ 
structions. Surround it with buoys and 
set up rules for its use — twice daily — 
by the campers. 

What can we do to ensure that the 
waterfront is used to the best advan¬ 
tage, and to help the children progress 
according to their needs and desires? 
A safe waterfront is essential for camp, 
but what happens when the children 
go on a canoe trip or to their own 
summer cottages? There they will find 
no marked swimming areas, stiff with 
instructors and patrol boats. Instead 
they may find submeiged rocks, under¬ 
tow or unsuspected currents . . . and 
it is there that accidents happen. 

Most camps have a series of tests 
by which the children learn swimming 
skills and by which the Waterfront 
Counsellors know what standard the 
campers have reached from year to 
year; but these tests pertain only to 
the camp in which they were gained. 
Not only must we teach children to 
swim and give them visible proof of 
their achievement by awarding badges 
for tests passed, but we must also 


46 


Canadian Camping 





teach them the nature of water and 
weather. 

The Red Cross Society and the 
Royal Life Saving Society foresaw the 
need for a series of tests which would 
be generally accepted as proof of the 
standard attained by the individual. 
Both realized the importance of includ¬ 
ing water safety knowledge to make the 
children aware of the hazards involved 
and to give them some idea of how to 
avoid and how to contend with the 
dangers they might meet. Both have 
evolved, to meet these needs, tests 
which are recognized by, and available 
to everyone. 

The Red Cross Tests are designed 
for people of all ages, and give an 
excellent scheme of progress in learning 
swimming skills. Water safety is stressed 
so that even children who will never 
swim well are informed of facts which 
may preserve their own lives and be of 
real use in saving the lives of others. 


The Royal Life Saving Society 
Awards are designed for older children 
and adults who are strong enough to 
tow another person in the water. They 
teach methods of rescue and give some 
help in how to avoid and deal with 
the super-human clutch of a drowning 
person. 

The Elementary Certificate (for those 
under 12 years old) and the Inter¬ 
mediate Certificate (for 12 and over) 
encourage young swimmers to take an 
interest in Life Saving and to prepare 
for the higher awards of the Society. 

Bronze Medallion (minimum age 14) 
is a comprehensive Life Saving Award 
including all methods of release and 
rescue, good style swimming over a 
distance, and simple knowledge of the 
anatomy and physiology of circulation 
and respiration for the intelligent appli¬ 
cation of methods of resuscitation. 

continued on page 48 


FILMS HAVE A PLACE IN YOUR 
CAMP PROGRAM 


INSTRUCTIONAL FILMS: 

For Character and 
Physical Training 

35 nun FILMSTRIPS 

How Shall We Live 
Teen Age Discussions 
Junior Safety Series 
Junior Sonqs to Sing 
Track and Field Series 
Baseball, Basketball, etc. 
Old Tales for Young Folk 


ENTERTAINMENT FILMS: 

For Outdoor Night 
and Rainy Day Activities 

16 mm SOUND 

Iroquois Trail 

Blazing Forest 

North-West Mounted Police 

Three Ring Circus 

The Caribou Trail 

Rhubarb 

Greatest Show on Earth 


RELIGIOUS FILMS: 

For Moral Training 
and Vespers 

16 mm SOUND 

Speak No Evil 

The Little Lie That Grew 

In His Name 

Forest Cathedrals 

Templed Hills 

Who Is My Neighbour 

Again Pioneers 


GENERAL FILMS LIMITED 

CAN SERVE YOUR EVERY REQUIREMENT IN 16 MM FILMS, 

35 MM FILMSTRIPS AND AUDIO VISUAL EQUIPMENT 

Victor Sound Projector • Seebreeze Tape Recorders • Dalite Screens 
SVE Filmstrip and Film Slide Projectors • Beseler Opaque Projectors 


VANCOUVER. B.C. 
737 Hamilton St. 

TORONTO, ONT. 
16 Breadalbane St. 


CALGARY, ALTA. 
615 Thorndale Road 

MONTREAL, QUE. 
3724 Parle Avo. 


REGINA, SASK. 
1534 Thirteenth Ave. 

MONCTON, N.B. 
212 Lutz St. 


WINNIPEG. MAN. 
524 Sargean Ave. 

ST. JOHN'S, NFLD. 
445 Water St. 


Toronto, Canada , June, 1957 


47 



GOVERNMENT SURPLUS 

and 

CAMPING SUPPLIES 

for 

BOY SCOUTS - CAMPERS 
SPORTSMEN 
and 

GENERAL OUTDOOR ACTIVITIES 

• 

ST. LAWRENCE MARKET 
SURPLUS SALES 

157 King Street 1 East 

(next door to St. Lawrence Market) 

Toronto 1, Ont. 

EM. 6-4565 EM. 3-9863 

WILLOWDALE STORE 
Parking Facilities 

5439 Yonge St. BA. 1-3015 

Special Discounts to Camps 


Wholesale 
Medical 
Supplies.,. 

Medical Equipment 
First Aid Requirements 
Medicines 

• 

Prices Lower Faster Service 

• 

STARKMAN CHEMISTS 

459 Bloor St. W. - Toronto 


continued from page 47 

The Bronze Cross, Award of Merit 
and Distinction Award, obtainable at a 
minimum age of 15, 16 and 17 years 
respectively, are a progressive series of 
tests concentrating on individual pro¬ 
ficiency and endurance in swimming. 
They include some methods of rescue 
and knowledge of resuscitation and may 
only be taken by holders of the Bronze 
Medallion. 

For those who wish to be instructors, 
there are the Scholar Instructor and 
Instructor Certificates, obtainable at a 
minimum age of 15 and 16 respectively, 
in which the candidate prepares a class 
of 4 to 6 others for Intermediate 
(Scholar Instructor) or Bronze Medal¬ 
lion, (Instructor) with 75% success. 

At 18 years of age the would-be 
Instructor is eligible for the Red Cross 
Instructor’s Course. 

Thus there are, between the two 
Societies, generally accepted, scientifi¬ 
cally prepared awards, available for 11 
consecutive years, enough to keep any 
child busy for the whole of his camping 
life. 

All Camp Directors expect their 
Waterfront Counsellors to hold some 
award as proof of their ability to super¬ 
vise waterfront activities efficiently. 
Why not make these awards available 
to campers, not only for their own 
safety but to set the footsteps of poten¬ 
tial leaders in the right direction. 

Last year 416 people were drowned 
in Ontario. How many of these lives 
could have been saved by adequate 
training in childhood? 

What will YOU do to protect your 
campers and increase their enjoyment 
of our natural resources? 


48 


Canadian Camping 




continued from pnge 24 
equipment. Striking the head on a ski 
or twisting, spraining or dislocating an 
arm or leg, is a possibility. Loss of 
control in approaching docks, other 
boats, and stationary objects, create the 
risk of serious injury. 

Strict regulations should be enforced 
before participation is allowed in this 
sport. The skier should have passed 
regular swimming tests and should be 
forced to wear an approved type of life 
jacket. Instructions should begin on 
shore with all the techniques of getting 
up on skis, of controlling direction and 
steering around dangerous objects. The 
driver of the boat should have been 
tested for the necessary qualifications in 
handling the craft and its engine. This 
applies particularly to understanding the 
right of way when in the proximity of 
other craft and especially of the safe 
method of approaching a submerged 
skier who has fallen from the skis. The 
driver of the boat should not be respon¬ 
sible for the skier but should take direc¬ 


tions from a second person who should 
always be in the boat and who is 
directing and controlling the tow-rope. 
Drowning 

It is interesting to note in the statistics 
dealing with causes of death in children 
that drowning is second only to road 
transport and suffocation. Drowning 
accidents caused three hundred and 
fifty deaths among children. Only two 
such drownings in 1954 occurred in 
places of recreation, the only places 
where one might consider that adequate 
supervision has been provided. This 
would appear to speak well for the 
organized summer camps. 

There are many new developments in 
the field of health and safety in children 
which affects camps. The few which 
have been presented will serve to illus¬ 
trate that it is necessary to constantly 
study the factors which are important. 
It is pleasing to notice the tremendous 
improvement of health and safety rec¬ 
ords in organized and well-operated 
summer camps. —• 


BAMFORD’S 

ST. LAWRENCE MARKET — TORONTO 

Produce Dept. EMpire 4-9444 

Meat Dept. EMpire 3-4111 

FRUIT AND VEGETABLES 

FRESH, CURED AND SMOKED MEATS 

A wide variety of fresh produce, 
arriving fresh daily. Why not serve 
the best for less? Let us arrange for 
express or truck transport or save 
these costs by picking up your supplies 
at our warehouse. 

All meats butchered ready for oven. 
Chops and Steaks cut into portions. 
Orders packed in dry ice to ensure 
arrival in perfect condition. 

Out of town goods expertly 

packed to ensure safe delivery. 


BOAT ACCESSORIES 

for every fype of Water Craft 

A complete line of equipment for every marine need carried in 
our showrooms — 

SAILS - HARDWARE - ROPE - CANVAS - PAINTS - VARNISHES 
GLUES and COMPOUNDS, Etc. 

TOM TAYLOR LIMITED 

The Best in Quality and Service 

81 Front Street East EMpire 3-8761-2 Toronto, Ontario 


Toronto, Canada, June, 1957 


49 





VO IT 

a* - 3 YOURSELF 



la, KITS 


Kits developed by 
experienced craftsmen 
for the inexperienced 

POPULARLY PRICED 
FROM 25c UP 



A complete stock of 
leathercraft supplies, 
plastic lacings and 
accessories. 


AVAILABLE FROM YOUR 
DEALER OR DIRECT FROM: 

CLARKE & CLARKE 

LEATHERS 

BARRIE, ONTARIO 
CANADA 

Send For Catalogue No. C 
(It's FREE) 


continued from page 30 

In north-central Ontario and Quebec 
many fire rangers, trappers, hunters and 
fishermen still depend to a great extent 
on the canoe as a means of transporta¬ 
tion. This is also an area of hundreds of 
summer camps for young people. In¬ 
deed, the camping movement has been 
a great boon to canoeing as a sport. 
Here the myths of the instability of the 
canoe are being dispelled, and expert 
instruction in the care and handling of 
canoes is being given. The strong em¬ 
phasis on water safety in the past 
decade has done much to cut down on 
accidents and to foster a common-sense 
attitude towards canoeing. 

Most of the recent books on this 
subject are “how to” books of which 
The Canoe and You and Canoe Trip 
Camping, by R. H. Perry, are the best 
examples. In these he suggests that 
certain standards should be adopted by 
camps throughout the country. At the 
present time the Ontario Camping 
Association’s Standards Committee is 
studying minimum canoeing standards 
for organized children’s camps, based 
on these books. 

The Trail of The Red Canoe, a book 
by a well-known camp director, Mar¬ 
garet Govan, is designed to catch the 
imagination of youth and to inspire in 
them the thrill and adventure of the 
canoe tripping experience. 

The future of canoeing in Canada 
lies in the hands of the young, theirs is 
the heritage and the tradition. May they 
preserve it and develop this sport to 
an even higher peak of enjoyment. 

— • 


The three articles are to be reprinted and 
sold for 25c per set, through the Ontario 
Camping Association Office. 


50 


Canadian Camping 


continued from page 25 

interesting. One of our real aims in 
nature programming should be to wean 
youngsters away from the “catch, kill, 
label” approach, to the “observe, study, 
compare, relate” approach. Insect Zoos 
help to accomplish this. 

In the last issue, we described how to 
set up a night trap for insects. For 
daytime insect-hunting, the best method 
is to sweep the grass. Sounds crazy? 
Here is how it is done. 

Take a stick one inch in diameter 
and about three , to four feet long. To 
this attach a coat hanger which has 
been re-shaped into a hoop. Make a 
net from cheesecloth and attach it to 
the hoop. When finished, you have an 
insect net par excellence. 

By swooping down upon any open 
field, and sweeping the net across the 
grass or other plants, myriad multi¬ 
legged creatures can be caught. 

Each camper should also have along 
a glass jar with some moist grass or 
moss in the bottom, and an air hole or 
six in the lid. Tie a cord around the 
neck of the bottle, so that it can be 
carried easily. 

Back at camp, the insects can be 
transferred to your insect zoo for study. 
This zoo can be a gallon jar with a 
screened top for ventilation. Of course, 
more elaborate ones can be made from 
panes of glass if you become really 
ambitious. 

Note the type of surroundings where 
you captured the insect; i.e.—dry, open 
field; damp, shady woods; swampland; 
etc. Try to duplicate this environment 
in your zoo bottle. 

Study the insects closely; classify and 
identify each one positively. Notice 
continued on page 53 


Understanding Girls 

Clarence G. Moser — $4.25 
This is a warmly sympathetic and 
scientifically sound guidebook for the 
parents, teachers and group leaders of 
girls from 6 through 17 who need our 
best help in meeting the normal prob¬ 
lems of growing up. 

Separate chapters deal with a girl’s 
growth — physically, emotionally and 
mentally — at these age levels: 6-8, 
9-11, 12-14 and 15-17. 

Treasury of American Indian Tales 

Theodore Whitson Ressler — $4.75 
44 short stories from 27 American 
Indian tribes— truc-to-lifc, exciting, 
colorful talcs for boys and girls aged 
6 to 12 — are re-told here by an 
experienced story teller for pre-teen 
youngsters. These original and tradi¬ 
tional stories deal vividly with Indian 
adventure, hunting and fishing, cus¬ 
toms, heroism and character. 

This book is written to be read to 
young pre-teeners and can be read 
easily by most children of 8 and up. 
Order from Your Regular Bookseller 

G. R. WELCH CO. LIMITED 
1149 King St. W., Toronto 3 


We Manufacture 
All Kinds of 

MATTRESSES 

• 

SUITABLE FOR 
CAMPS 


Springfilled 

Felt 

Etc. 


WINDSOR MATTRESS 

& EQUIPMENT CO. LTD. 
673 CARON AVENUE 
WINDSOR, ONTARIO 


Toronto, Canada, June, 1957 


51 



Available NOW ! 

AMERICAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION’S 

NEW 

Directory of Member Camps 
ONLY 50c PER COPY 


A “must” for 

• CAMP DIRECTORS 

• COUNSELLORS 

• PARENTS 

• GUIDANCE PERSONNEL 

AMERICAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 
Bradford Woods Martinsville, Indiana 

SEND FOR A COMPLETE LIST OF PUBLICATIONS 


Canadian Camping 



continued from page 51 

what and how it eats; notice how the 
legs, jaws, etc. are adapted to their par¬ 
ticular functions., How does it breathe? 
What distinct .features classify it as 
being different from its neighbours in 
the bottle next door? What preys upon 
it in its wild state? What link does it 
occupy in nature’s chain? Determine 
its ecological role in the scheme of 
things. 

On and on you can probe, endlessly. 
There are over seven hundred thousand 
different species of insects as opposed 
to only two hundred and fiity thousand 
species of all animals . . . including 
man; and the hunting season on insects 
never closes. Enough material to keep 
most campers busy for the better part 
of the summer is just outside any cab n 
door. 

Until the fall . . . good hunting. 


t'hvcli Thai 
Hirintf ita aril ... 

Diving boards always take a terrific 
beating during the camp season. Some¬ 
times, when a diving board gives way. 
it will go all of a sudden: so it's a good 
idea to make sure yours is in the best 
shape possible. 

When you put your board up, look 
carefully for any faults or splinters at 
the places where it is anchored. Also, 
check any weak spots in the free part: 
two-thirds from the end of a stiff 
board, and one-third from the end ol 
a springy board, since these are usually 
the troublesome areas. If your board 
gets a lot of use, it should probably be 
a little on the stiff side at the beginning 
of the season. A summer full of active 
campers will weaken anything. 

— • 


STOP 
INSECT 
BITES 

with d-Ter-448.* 

Guaranteed 6 to 10 hour 
protection against black 
flies and mosquitoes. 

★ 448 developed by U.S. Navy 



Available in Cream and Liquid Forms 
For special quantity discounts write 
MALTBY BROTHERS LIMITED 
1124 Castlefield Ave., Toronto 10 




Largest Selling 
Milk Chocolate 
in the World ! 


Toronto, Canada , Jane, 1957 


53 




FIRE HAZARD 

Protect your valuable buildings and 
equipment from destruction. 

Bucket Brigades are Obsolete 

Canada’s largest manufacturer of all 
types of fire hose ofTcrs complete fire 
fighting units consisting of hose, pump, 
nozzles, etc. Phone or write— 

GEORGE ANGUS 
(CANADA) LIMITED 

11 Curity Toronto 16 

Avenue Ontario 


Contact us for 

Parts and Accessories 

for the famous 

A C K R O Y D 
DINGHIES 

J. J. TAYLOR & SONS LTD. 

BOAT BUILDERS AND MARINE SUPPLIES 
ON THE WESTERN CHANNEL—TORONTO 



PAINTS 

SOLIGNUM STAINS 


A FULL LINE OF PROTECTIVE 
COATINGS FOR YOUR CAMP 

9 Sturgeon Rd. PLymouth 

Scarborough 5-1171 


CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING 

SPECIALISTS, Linit leaders and gen¬ 
eral counsellors wanted for co-ed pri¬ 
vate camp in Laurentians. Reply to 
Pembina Camp, 4792 Victoria Ave., 
Montreal. 


OUR FRIENDS. . . 
Th a A d veri isvrs 


American Camping Association. 52 

George Angus Canada Ltd. 54 

James Bamford & Sons Ltd . 49 

Beach Pool & Camp Supply Co. 45 

J. H. Beattie . 42 

The Borden Co. Ltd. 10 

J. & J. Cash (Can.) Ltd. 42 

Clarke & Clarke Leathers . 50 

Continental Casualty Co. 

Outside Back Cover 

Continental Yacht Sales . 6 

Walter J. Cross . 44 

John E. Dean Co. Ltd. 43 

J. M. Dent & Sons Ltd. 35 

d'Tcr . 53 

T. Eaton Co. Ltd. 3 

Foodcraft Laboratories Ltd. 33 

Fry-Cadbury Ltd. 53 

General Films Ltd. 47 

General Plastics Ltd. 7 

General Steel Wares Ltd. 5 

Gestener (Canada) Ltd. 36 

Gibbons Quickset Desserts 

Inside Front Cover 

S. Gumpert Co. of Can. Ltd. 44 

Ingram & Bell Ltd. 30 

Kamp Pack . 2 

John Leckic Ltd. 38 

Lewiscraft Supplies Ltd. 45 

Mil-Ko Products Ltd. 8 

McKaguc Chemical Co. Ltd. 4 

Ontario Northland Railway . 39 

The Peterborough Canoe Co. Ltd. 39 

Sampson-Matthews Ltd. 33 

J. M. Schneider Ltd. 43 

Standard Steel Products Mfg. Co. Inc. 22 

Starkman Chemists Ltd. 48 

St. Lawrence Market Surplus Sales . 48 

Sturgeons Ltd. 54 

Superior Propane Ltd. 30 

J. J. Taylor & Sons Ltd. 54 

Tern Taylor Co. Ltd. 49 

Vaunclair Purveyors Ltd. 36 

Vermont Accident Insurance Co. 55 

Warner Brothers Pictures Dist. Co. Ltd. 27 

G. R. Welch Co. Ltd. 51 

Windsor Mattress & Equipt. Co. Ltd. 51 

G. H. Wood & Co. Ltd. 55 


54 


Canadian Camping 














































FOR CAMPING EFFICIENCY 
& TIME-SAVING CLEANLINESS 

• PAPER TOWELS • PAPER SERVIETTES • PAPER CUPS 

• TOILET TISSUE • DISINFECTANTS • TOILET SOAPS 

• FIRE • CLEANING • WASTE 

EXTINGUISHERS SOAPS RECEPTACLES 



TRY THE BEST 

CAMPERS’ INSURANCE 

• MEDICAL REIMBURSEMENT 

Pays expenses of Doctor, surgeon, nurse, hospital, ambulance, 
prescription medicines, and X-ray for accident and sickness. 
Also accidental death and dismemberment benefits. 

• TUITION FEES REFUND 

Pays unearned tuition fee due to withdrawal from camp on 
account of accident, sickness or epidemic. 


Write Us Today 

VERMONT ACCIDENT INSURANCE 

Rutland, Vermont, U.S.A. 








IT’S NOT TOO LATE TO 
ARRANGE FOR 


THE FAMOUS 
CONTINENTAL 

CAMP-GUARD 
PLANS 

NOW AVAILABLE IN CANADA 



ACCIDENT ond SICKNESS 


INSURANCE 

DISPLAY THIS SYMBOL^ 

STICKERS AVAILABLE FOR YOUR STATIONERY 


A choice of plans for all organizational, church and 
private camps providing broad medical expense 
protection for each accident and each sickness at low - 
cost group rates for both campers and staff members. 

Put CAMP-GUARD on your programme. Display 
this symbol and let parents know your camp is 
covered. This symbol of outstanding coverage 
assures them you take added interest in your 
camper's welfare, by providing a CAMP-GUARD 
accident and sickness plan. 

Your local insurance agent will help you choose the 
right plan for your camp; or write our nearest office 
for full particulars. 

CONTINENTAL CASUALTY COMPANY 

SPECIAL RISKS DIVISION 

« 675 West Hastings Street 160 Bloor St. East 1510 Drummond Street 

VANCOUVER TORONTO MONTREAL 

TAtlow 6381 WAInut 4-4692 MArquctte 5306 





