

OFFICIAL PUBLICATION 
OF THE CANADIAN 
CAMPING ASSOCIATION 


L'ASSOCIATION DES 
CAMPS DU CANADA - 
PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 








Letters to the Editor 

“CCA - I Want To Thank You” 


Come on, Terry, be real! Most persons who 
know me well wouldn’t expect me to go out of 
my way to express simple thoughts to a 
sophisticated body of persons. Face it, I’m 
only one person with a rural mentality, com¬ 
ing from a province that has only 33 member 
camps of the Manitoba Camping Associa¬ 
tion. What in the world do I have to say? 

Well, I feel important though I have a sim¬ 
plistic background and what I thought was a 
lack of experience compared to all the so- 
called ‘big camp directors’. 

The Manitoba Camping Association is 
alive and well because of the many persons 
across Canada who care. The Canadian 
Camping Association is an important nation¬ 
al vehicle through which the most important 
element of my professional development was 
fostered, nourished, developed and where I 
get that added touch of encouragement to do 
my part as a camping person in my own camp 
setting, within my own Manitoba Camping 
Association. Hopefully, in turn I will someday 
do something small (or big) for another pro¬ 
motion of quality camping experiences in 
anywhere, Canada, or for that matter, any¬ 
where where persons are serious about the 
camping movement. 

Although I speak personally, I feel that 
many persons across Canada would agree 
with me that the national body, CCA, has 
done many very important leadership devel¬ 
opment events that have directly benefited 
provincial camping associations. It’s too 
easy to measure success based only upon 
the results of direct recipients of an activity. 
Allow me to explain with an example. 

Even though it seems just like yesterday, it 
was in 1978 that I attended a national CCA 
leadership development event at Geneva 
Park. Three extremely important things hap¬ 
pened to me: 

A. I experienced an honest attempt by so 
many good people to take seriously our 
responsibility as leaders in our profession 
and all we do in every facet of camp directing 
is influencing the future of many lives. 


B. I was encouraged to return to Manitoba to 
provide leadership at the grass roots level for 
an association that was experiencing a dip in 
its purpose and goals at that point. We were 
not quite sure who we were and where we 
were going. 

C. Thirdly, the ‘biggies’ whom I thought were 
unreachable and unapproachable became 
my friends. They accepted me as one with 
them and I felt like a somebody. John Latimer, 
Jack Pearse, Ron Johnstone, Jay Haddad 
just to name a few, came across as co¬ 
professionals, not the experts with all the 
answers. 

I personally feel that the Manitoba Camp¬ 
ing Association is healthy today because 
CCA sees that its mandate is “to develop and 
promote training programs and conferences 
on a national level for camp leaders..that 
in turn benefit individual camps and provin¬ 
cial associations. Because of my Geneva 
Park experience, I was challenged to contri¬ 
bute “that added touch’’ that’s so necessary 
to my provincial association. I’m not the only 
person from Manitoba that has benefited 
from a National event. 

Thank you CCA for providing the programs 
and projects that make possible greater 
leadership development opportunities that 
directly benefit us here in Manitoba. I hope 
we recognize the benefits that we as 
members get for our membership fees to the 
provincial association. Likewise, I would 
hope that private donors, commercial mem¬ 
bers and Fitness and Amateur Sport will con¬ 
tinue to feel that their contributions to the na¬ 
tional body (Canadian Camping Association) 
are very definitely being felt on the local level 
of provincial associations. For clarification 
when I thank CCA, I’m thinking of you ... 
CCA is not an ‘up there’ association where 
decisions are made by a few that sit in the 
Toronto office. CCA is you and me as mem¬ 
bers through our local association. Whether 
we’re big or small, from the east or the west; 
directors, administrators, counselors, board 
members ... we are the ones who make up 


CCA. We need each other and the Associa¬ 
tion needs all of us. 

by: Terry Burkhalter, 

MCA President 


A Qui de droit, 

Felicitations pour I’audacieu editorial: 
“L’esprit de competition dans les camps 
perturbe nos valeurs”. 

La question se pose cependant, et les 
implications sont k longue 6ch6ance... 
cherchons-nous k proteger le jeune contre 
la Societe actuelle ou n’est-il pas de notre 
devoir de fournir k I’adulte de demain les 
occasions d’exercer ses qualites de leader. 

Je crois que les principes directeurs 
enonces avant la conclusion de votre 
editorial reflet un aspect, et un aspect bien 
limite de la formation du jeune. 

II faut I’aider k devenir responsable et 
independant. 

Amities sinceres 
Raymond Doucet 


Dear Canadian Camping, 

I want to congratulate you on the ^ 

excellence of your magazine. It is varied, 
thoughtful, comprehensive, well planned 
and well written. Congratulations! 

Please list the names of the Editor and the 
Editorial Board beneath the Editorial Policy 
so we may know whom to thank. 

Ann R. Prewitt, 
former Editor, 

Canadian Camping. 


CONTENTS 


Summer 1982 __Vol.34,No.2 


4 

Interview: May Brown 

16 

BCCA Leadership Development Camp 


by Jay Haddad 


by Dave Adair 

6 

CCA Annual Report/ACC Rapport Annuel 

17 

National Statistics 




by Marjorie Booth 

13 

South Pacific Report: Witness to Excellence 

18 

National Photo Contest 


by Kirk Wipper 



15 

Group Dynamics Exercise 




by Jay Haddad 


Cover Photo Courtesy: Jay Haddad 


Editorial Policy 


The ideas expressed In the Editorial are those of the Editorial Committee and not necessarily those of the Canadian 
Camping Association/Association des Camps du Canada. The views are expressed to provide stimulation and com* 
ment. We invite you to respond in “Letters to the Editor'; 


This Association gratefully acknowledges ■ Government of Canada Gouvernement du Canada 

the financial support of H^r Fitness and Amateur Sport Condition physique et Sport amateur 

2 



EDITORIAL 


The Voice of Camping: 
Inaudible! 

It is with great dismay that we continually learn from the news media 
about frequent weekend drownings, boating accidents, school outings 
ending in tragedy as safety rules aren’t heeded, littering and a wreck¬ 
less disregard for environment or people by weekend “campers”. 

It is with greater dismay that our Provincial Camping Associations 
and, indeed, the Canadian Camping Association refuse to speak out 
publicly on issues that concern: our environment, our image, children's 
rights, the rights of our elderly, boating construction and safety, swim¬ 
ming and waterfront safety, children’s health, food safety and regula¬ 
tions, young peoples’ growth and development 

Camping’s silence is in itself a message, indicating either that we 
don’t care or that we have nothing to say or that we have no opinion or 
standards to share. And as history clearly has shown: silence gives 
consent! Is our silence thereby implicitly affirming the assault of 
business and industry on our environment or the assault of weekend 
“nature-lovers” who chase loons with motor boats and flagrantly toss 
empty beer bottles into our lakes? 

How long wj!li our silence keep us guilty by association as camps are 
branded and tarnished as “the lake where the four boys drowned” or 
“the lake with the broken glass and littered campsites” or “the lake 
where the R.C.M.P. made the drug arrests”? 

Two consequences of silence naturally follow: 1) no one knows we 
exist, and even if it is known, 2) no one thinks we have an opinion that is 
noteworthy or newsworthy. On both points we are selling ourselves 
jshort as well as being irresponsible to our consuming public who 
deserve to know where we stand on issues and what proposals or solu¬ 
tions we might offer. 

Much of what is said among camping people within the camping 
community IS SIGNIFICANT AND IMPORTANT; and we do share our 
feelings and opinions but ONLY AMONGST OURSELVES! Our com¬ 
munication horizons are myopic; we must learn to speak out in our com¬ 
munities, in our local churches, in our newspapers, on radio and televi¬ 
sion. The President of the Canadian Camping Association, as are the 
Provincial Presidents, is mandated to speak on our behalf; we need to 
hear those opinions, we need to hear actions deplored, information and 
statistics shared. Letters-to-the-Editor in the Globe and Mail is a 
column which serves our entire country; our positions, our standards, 
our recommendations should be advanced. 

When we learn to speak out, the public will not only know who we are 
but they will know who we are not. And what we stand for! Eventually, 
when an accident occurs, or a crisis, or a controversial issue, the news 
media will clamor to the offices of our Presidents across the country to 
get our professional and informed opinion. In the meantime, the 
responsibility is upon our shoulders to peck away with a letter here, a 
phone call there, a hotline show, a letter-to-the-editor, a radio interview, 
press release after press release after press release until we have 
raised our collective voices to a level of: AUDIBLE! 


Notre mutisma - un 
silence qui n'est pas d'or 

Nous sommes toujours stup6ftes d’apprendre k la radio et dans les 
journaux le nombre frequent de noyades les fins de semaine, les acci¬ 
dents de bateau, les tragedies mettant fin k des excursions d'Studiants 
malavis^s, (’accumulation de d^chets Iaiss6s partout par des 
campeurs peu soucieux de I’environnement et du blen des autres. 

Nous sommes d’autant plus dSroufes de voir que nos associations 
provinciales de camping et, en fait, (’Association des camps du 
Canada, refusent de se prononcer publiquement sur des questions 
aussi urgentes que celles de I’environnement, de notre image, des 
droits de nos enfants et vieillards, des mesures de s^curifes dans la 
construction d’embarcations, des regies de sScurife nautique, de la 
sanfe des enfants, des regies et de I’hygfene de I’alimentation ou en¬ 
core du d6veloppement et de l’6panouissement de nos jeunes. 

Notre mutisme est un message en soi. II denote une indifference ou 
encore un manque d’opinion et de conviction de notre part. Qui ne dit 
mot consent et I’histoire est riche en femoignages k ce chapitre. Est-ce 
done dire que nous approuvons la destruction de I’environnement par 
les industries ou par ces “amants de la nature” qui chassent les huards 
en canot automobile et balancent leurs “corps morts” par-dessus 
bord? 

Pendant encore combien de temps notre silence fera-t-il naitre le 
remord chaque fois que Ton parle de nos camps en les associant k des 
termes aussi peu Slogieux que “le lac ou quatre gargonnets se sont 
noy6s”, ou “le lac aux rives jonch6es de bris de glaces et de d^chets” 
quand ce n’est pas “le lac ou la G.R.C. a effectuS des descentes de 
drogue? 

Deux corollaires fesultent de notre silence: 1) personne ne nous con- 
nait et nfeme si nous sommes connus, 2) personne ne pense que nos 
opinions nrferitent de retenir I’attention. Dans un cas comme dans 
I’autre notre dimension s’en trouve feduite et nous passons k cdfe de 
notre vocation qui est d’informer le public de notre position sur des 
questions qui le concernent et de lui faire savoir quelles sont les solu¬ 
tions que nous pourrions apporter. 

Nous faisons preuve d’une myopie 6vidente quand vient le temps de 
vShiculer nos opinions. Nos membres parlent entre eux d’une foule de 
choses d’ENVERGURE. H6las, ils en discutent A HUIS CLOS! 

Nous devons nous faire entendre dans nos localifes, nos 6glises, nos 
journaux, k la radio et & la fefevision. Le president de I’Association des 
camps du Canada de m£me que ceux des associations provinciales ont 
pour mandat de fepandre nos theories. Les journaux comme La Presse, 
sont de puissant organes de diffusion dont nous devrlons nous servir 
pour v^hiculer nos id6es, nos croyances et nos recommandations. 

Quand nous aurons enfin apprls k nous faire entendre, le public 
saura non seulement qui nous sommes mais aussi sous quelle ban- 
nfere nous nous rangeons. 

Viendra le jour ou les nrfedia viendront frapper k la porte de nos presi¬ 
dents partout au pays afin de recueillir une opinion sure lors d’un acci¬ 
dent, d’une crise ou d’un debat. 

En attendant, il nous faut envoyer une lettre ici, faire un appel I k, par- 
ticiper k des programmes de ligne ouverte, ecrire aux 6diteurs, accepter 
des entrevues k la radio et envoyer des communiques de presse. Nous 
devons eiever la voix tous ensemble pour qu’enfin eclate la mur du 
SILENCE. 


CCA Newsletter: Jay Haddad (Editor) 
/^Editorial Board: John Latimer 
John Walker 
Murray Wickwire 

Editorial Office is located at the CCA/ACC 
Office, 1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, Toronto, 
Ontario M5M 3Z1. 


Canadian Camping is an official publication of the Canadian Camping Association/ 
Association des Camps du Canada. Canadian Camping (ISSN 008-3119) is published 
quarterly. CCA/ACC membership includes a subscription; non-member subscription 
$6 00 a year or $15.00 - 3 years. Send address changes to CCA/ACC, 1806 Avenue Road, 
Suite 2, Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1. Material in Canadian Camping may not be reproduced 
in any form, without written permission of the editor. Copyright 1982 Canadian Camping 
Association/Association des Camps du Canada. 


3 



INTERVIEW 


Lome and May Brown are two people who 
have been extremely involved in camping 
both in their own province, and across the en¬ 
tire country. Lome passed away in January 
1976 and May spent her first summer without 
Lome directing Camp Deka in the summer of 
1976. 

Jay Haddad interviewed May in Vancouver, 
B.C. on November 25, 1976. The following are 
excerpts from that interview: 

CCA: It’s a pleasure to be here in Vancouver 
and particularly to interview you, May, on 
behalf of the CCA. What are your first recol¬ 
lections of the Association? 

MB: I attended one of the first meetings on 
the CCA in Ottawa in the spring of 1947; I was 
really there as a Director of Camp Oolahwan 
which is the YWCA camp in Montreal. I had a 
very interesting time, especially because I 
met so many people for the first time - people 
I had heard so much about, like Mary Edgar. I 
also met Marion Henderson Penney who was 
there representing British Columbia. It was 
Blackie Blackstock, whom I knew quite well 
even at that date through my McGill work, 
who introduced me to Marion and was keen 
for me to get a good start back in B.C. where 
I’d come from. 

CCA: What was Mr. Blackstock’s involvement 
at that time? 

MB: Blackie at that time ha^ his own camp 
(Mazinaw) but he was up at McGill improving 
his academic qualifications and I had just 
graduated from McGill and we became good 
friends. As it turned out, of course, he was a 
very good friend of my husband, Lome’s, and 
they became lifetime friends after that, so 
Blackie’s a very good family friend. 

CCA: In terms of the CCA as an organization, 
what do you remember from those years? 

MB: Well, I went back to British Columbia and 
joined the BCCA and became involved with 
them for many years. We didn’t have all that 
much to do then with the CCA because travel 
wasn’t quite as easy across the country, 
although we certainly looked forward to 
getting our magazine and literature from 
Ontario! We basically viewed the CCA as 
essentially Ontario and Quebec, because 
they carried the load in those early years. 
Conferences were held in Banff once in a 
while and the Alberta people would come out 
to B.C. so it was mainly the “names” of peo¬ 
ple that we knew by association in those 
early years - the Van Wagner years, the Anne 
Vail years and those people who were so very 
active; we eventually got to know them when 
they came to B.C. to visit and it was always a 
highlight to have them at a Conference. But 
travel was the key - travel is what tied the 
CCA together, in my view. The CCA Executive 
then moved to Alberta with Don Smith as 
President. 

CCA: What year was this? 

MB: It was 1963-65 and our Annual Meeting in 
1965 was in Parkesville, B.C. We invited the 
CCA Executive to come out; it was at that 
time that we made the proposal for the CCA 
Executive to stay in British Columbia and I 
was asked to be President - so I was from 
1965-67. 



CCA: Were those good years? and was the 
CCA active? 

MB: When I was President here, we had a 
very active group in British Columbia - peo¬ 
ple worked very hard. Peggy Etchell took on 
the job of Secretary and did an outstanding 
job. I was fortunate because throughout my 
term of office I was on the National Advisory 
Council for Fitness and Amateur Sport for 
the Federal Government; this meant that I 
was travelling across the country attending 
Council meetings in Ottawa on a regular 
basis. The CCA had no funds for me to travel 
as President and I was able to take side trips 
everywhere. I went to meet with every Provin¬ 
cial Camping Association throughout my two 
years. 

CCA: The Federal Government did not fund 
the CCA at that time? 

MB: No, it did not. The National Fitness 
Council was really just underway; we had Bill 
C-131 which has been passed in the House of 
Commons and the Advisory Committee was 
set up in about 1962or 63 -1 joined in 1964 and 
we were really groping at that time to try to 
figure out which groups we could fund and 
how we could use our allocated money. So 
the CCA had no great money then - when we 
travelled we tried to link it with other trips or 
our own Associations were sponsoring us. 

CCA: In my mind, the name Lome Brown has 
always been synonymous with outdoor 
education and nature awareness. Why? 

MB: That was Lome’s philosophy of educa¬ 
tion - he was in teacher training and had 
been in physical education and actually it’s 
interesting because Lome was one of the 
people that founded the British Columbia 
Camping Association. It’s an old association, 
older than the CCA; it was started in the 
1930’s. Gertrude Moore, who founded Moore- 
croft, (which is now a United Church Camp on 
Vancouver Island) and Lome and several peo¬ 
ple from the “Y” founded the B.C. Camping 
Association. Lome’s whole philosophy of 
education was tied in with the out-of-doors; 
he was very active even in those early days 
with the YMCA Camp Elphinstone. Lome 
believed that education was inextricably tied 
to one’s feelings and an appreciation and 
awareness of our outdoor environment - he 
was definitely years ahead of his time with 
respect to his philosophy of education and 
camping. 


CCA: Was this philosophy reflected through 
the CCA when you were President? 

MB: Actually no, because our energy was in¬ 
vested in trying to get Provincial Camping 
Associations on a more solid footing. Some 
Provinces were just beginning the first 
stages of growing into an organization. 

CCA: Which provinces and who were some of 
your contact people? 

MB: We were working very closely in Saskat¬ 
chewan with Eileen Mayotte and Jack 
McKenzie. We had connections in Newfound¬ 
land through the Salvation Army - people 
who had been in British Columbia. In New 
Brunswick, we worked through people who 
were connected with the Sports and Fitness 
Field - they called it the Youth Branch - 
through their provincial government. There 
already was an association in Nova Scotia 
and we worked with Dave Hartry and Freda 
Wales and others in that province. 

CCA: Where did the Presidency go following 
your term of office? 

MB: It went to Manitoba with Doug McEwen 
as President. At that time we were making 
approaches through Recreation Canada for 
funding and we began to be successful in 
getting some and that certainly helped a 
great deal. 

CCA: How often did the CCA Board meet and 
how did you manage to get together as part 
of a “National” body? 

MB: Again, the cost of travel was just prohibi¬ 
tive! O'* CCA Board met once a year at our 
Annual Board Meeting, but people tended to 
go to Ottawa or Toronto for other things; 
many Westerners, for example, went to 
Toronto regularly to the CCA meetings and 
we would hold short meetings there. 

We were also working at that time (1967), 
with John Latimer as Chairman, on the 
Centenary Journey and we did have some 
funding under that Centennial Project; we 
therefore, used our meeting times to also 
discuss CCA matters. 

We also worked with the Secretary of State 
on inter-cultural camping; bringing ethnic 
children into the organized camping experi¬ 
ence. This is very much taken for granted to¬ 
day, but at that time we were really pushing it. 
The Secretary of State sponsored a big 
seminar in Winnipeg and, again, we brought 
in people from all parts of the country, from 
our association and others. We took advan¬ 
tage of all these meetings to have CCA 
meetings. 

CCA: / get the strong impression that “com¬ 
munication” was the most important tenet of 
your CCA Presidency; was communication 
your cornerstone? 

MB: Yes, most definitely; we were just trying 
to communicate and give people a feeling of 
national unity and that the CCA was not 
limited to just one region but that we’re all in¬ 
volved together. Cross country travel was 
becoming easier and we really started get¬ 
ting to know one another. 

CCA: Let me go way back to May Brown as a 
young girl - what are your first recollections 
of a “camping” experience? 

MB: I was brought up here in British Colum¬ 
bia in Surrey; I wasn’t involved in organized 
camping except in “club” groups that went to 
camp on weekends - church groups, “Y” 
groups, school clubs, etc. I was raised in a 
pretty much rural setting - we did go camping 
as a family and as Sunday School groups, but 


not as organized residential children’s 
camps. It wasn’t until my connection with the 
YWCA in Vancouver that I became involved 
with organized camping; then as a staff 
member in a teenage group that was here in 
Bone Island. 

In 1945 I went back to Montreal to go to 
University and began to work for the YWCA at 
Camp Oolahwan as programme director and 
then as Director after a few summers; it was 
then that I became heavily involved with 
camping. 

CCA: Was there any aspect of camp pro¬ 
gramme or camp activity that appealed to 
you in particular? 

MB: I think, like all youngsters, campfires had 
a big impression on me. Sitting around a 
campfire with a group of people, singing 
songs and hearing stories - I think we tend to 
forget the tremendous impact it has on 
youngsters. 

I also remember, as far as images are con¬ 
cerned, how fantastic the waterfront people 
were: they seemed to be the people who 
could do all these marvelous skills, like swim 
and canoe. They were always people to look 
up to; people with standards and high ideals. 

I think it’s largely the result of that image that 
propelled me into physical education in 
university. 

CCA: Were you exposed to Mr. Van Wagner? 

MB: I should say! Mr. Van Wagner used to 
lead our outdoor education excursions at 
McGill; he was just marvelous! As a matter of 
fact, I’ve kept in touch with him all these 
years just because he impressed me so 
much. He had that quiet way about him; he 
could take any group of students out and it 
wouldn’t matter what the weather was like, 
“Van” would set us up someplace where we 
were going to have lunch - before you knew 
it, fires were blazing and shelters were up and 
we were all so comfortable with him. Tremen¬ 
dous ability to handle groups in the out-of- 
doors, you know. 

CCA: How active is your son Greg in camp¬ 
ing? 

MB: We used to laugh and say that he repre¬ 
sented Canadian Camping because he went 
for about three years to Camp Elphinstone 
which is here on the coast and then he came 
to our camp, Camp Deka, a private camp in 
the (B.C.) interior. Following this experience, 
he spent two summers with “Blackie” at 
Camp Mazinaw in Ontario; next he went to 
camp in Alberta in the foothills with Lou 
Lanier, who’s at the University of Alberta. Lou 
had a co-ed back-pack, hiking, riding, climb¬ 
ing camp which was excellent! The next sum¬ 
mer saw Greg with Jack McKenzie of Saskat¬ 
chewan on the Churchill chain with five In¬ 
dians and five non-Indians. What a fantastic 
trip! After a couple of years, he went to the 
CCA Canoe School in Manitoba and then in¬ 
structed in Alberta for about two years. I 
guess you could say he’s pretty well rounded 
in camping; having had experiences with 
Lome Bowering, his own Dad, Blackie Black- 
stone, Lou Lanier, Jack McKenzie and Brian 
Kreer. 

CCA: When did you meet your husband? 

MB: I came back to B.C. in the fall of 1947 and 
went on the Faculty of UBC; that same fall I 
met Lome who was at the normal school 
(Faculty of Education) doing teacher training. 
He was very involved with Elphinstone and 
has been for 25 years - so we certainly had 
camping as our common ground! We were 


both active in the Association, but soon after 
we were married, we began to look for proper¬ 
ty for our own camp - we had decided then 
that we would like to have our own camp. We 
searched for property and toured the country 
for years; in the spring of 1958 we found this 
property in the Carribou which was very 
remote, not even a road to it. There were 100 
acres on Deka Lake at the North end; a beau¬ 
tiful waterfront, wooded, all the criteria were 
fulfilled that we wanted from a camp. It took 
about three summers of planning, clearing, 
construction, water, kitchen, etc. 

We were ready to go by the summer of ’61. * 

CCA: Do you remember your first camper 
who registered? 

MB: Yes, I do - it was Philip Rowe and we had 
a “Rowe” every year for sixteen years - there 
were three boys in the family. 

CCA: Do you have vivid recollections of 
Lome, the camp philosophy at Deka and the 
programme? 

MB: The camp, the boys, the programme 
were very special to Lome. Because we were 
a small camp we had many full-camp pro¬ 
grammes like campfire in ttie evenings. Lome 
was intent on going past the fun and games 
to an appreciation of things - so certain tradi¬ 
tions were built up like the totem pole, which 
the boys made, and campfires. We had fun 
nights, too. Lome was “Chief Loony-Loon” 
and we had challenge night which was 
always special. We decided to forego 
challenge night last summer as the boys 
agreed it just wouldn’t be the same without 
Lome. 

Lome’s philosophy was that a skilled 
camper is a safe camper; over protection was 
not necessary, but he felt that risks really 
weren’t taken if you’re skilled. Skills were em¬ 
phasized (like riding, canoeing, back-packing 
etc.) but always within the structure of the 
cabin group. The cabin group moved 
together, worked together, played together; 
you see, skills were important, but not as an 
“end” in themselves. They were a “means” to 
the end, with the “end” being a boy feeling 
good about himself, confident in himself, 
more respectful of other people and of the 
natural environment. Our human skills were 
the most important but they were taught 
those principles through our skills activities. 

CCA: Why is camping important to our young 
people? Is there a single answer? 

MB: I think to be away from your family on a 
twenty-four hour basis and to explore the 
relationships you build up with your cabin 
group and leaders - is an experience that 
can’t be matched anywhere! As camp direc¬ 
tors and leaders, we have to draw on a lot of 
inner resources, but I think we forget that 
campers, too, must draw on their inner 
resources. It’s imperative to get along, to be 
tolerant, to understand responsibility, that 
our actions affect other people, that we are a 
community - and as you give, you grow; you 
can “feel it” in the campfire experiences - the 
campers understand the bonding experience 
- to nature and to other human beings - and 
that’s what I believe camping is all about! 

CCA: May, thank you for your thoughts, your 
reminiscing, your sense of history, but par¬ 
ticularly for sharing a little more of Lome 
Brown and yourself with us. 

MB: Thank you. • 


The CCA/ACC Archives are located at Trent 
University. The Oral History Interview Tapes 
reflect the efforts of many volunteers to 
record the history of the camping movement 
in Canada. Anyone wishing further informa¬ 
tion on the CCA/ACC Archives should com¬ 
municate his specific area of interest to: 

Mr. Ken Johnson, Archivist 
Thomas J. Bata Library 
Trent University 
Peterborough, Ontario 
K9J 7B8 
(705) 748-1413 



Photo Courtesy Camp Gay Venture 


POEM 

You cannot strengthen the weak by 
weakening the strong. 

You cannot help small men by tearing down 
big men. 

You cannot help the poor by destroying 
the rich. 

You cannot help the wage earner by pulling 
down the wage payer. 

You cannot keep out of trouble by spending 
more than your income. 

You cannot further the brotherhood of man 
by inciting class hatreds. 

You cannot establish security on borrowed 
money. 

You cannot build character and courage by 
taking away a man’s initiative and 
independence. 

You cannot help men permanently by doing 
for them what they could and should do for 
themselves. 

- Abraham Lincoln 


5 



ANNUAL REPORT 1981 RAPPORT ANNUEL 


PRESIDENT’S REPORT 

Each year in CCA/ACC has its unique high¬ 
lights and the year just completed is no ex¬ 
ception. You will read in the reports of the 
Committees and Task Forces of the various 
projects now in progress. Each of us has 
been aided considerably by the CCA/ACC Ac¬ 
tion Plan which established a format for 
these projects. Congratulate the authors for 
their foresight, we now must add to this plan 
for 1984. 

Last May, presuming the ability to lead the 
Association, I needed to immediately acquire 
the assistance and cooperation of many peo¬ 
ple in order to begin. The enthusiastic 
responses received have cheered and en¬ 
couraged the Executive and Board during the 
year. Well done all! 

It has been fun to share with camping peo¬ 
ple in a number of Provincial Associations. 
The hospitality received in British Columbia, 
Alberta, Ontario, Quebec, New Brunswick, 
Nova Scotia, Newfoundland and culminating 
in this Annual Meeting in Saskatoon, Saskat¬ 
chewan has been most appreciated. The op¬ 
portunity to visit Manitoba is yet to come. 

The three Vice Presidents have been very 
faithful in communnicatlng within their 
regions and with their Chairmen; each has 
liaison responsibilities. Thank-you Gary 
Luthy (West), Jane McCutcheon (Central) and 
George Matthews (East) for your efforts dur¬ 
ing the year. I continue to appreciate our 
Secretary, Jan James and George Ro.ss, 
Treasurer for their respective talents and con¬ 
tributions. Cliff Labbett is a supportive and 
involved Immediate Past President. 

The CCA/ACC has recently been advised 
that our application for status as a registered 
Canadian Charitable Institution has been 
accepted. This should open up some new 
funding avenues for CCA/ACC. 

Our emphasis now turns towards the big 
event for 1983, the International Camping 
Congress, January 26-29. John Latimer and 
his committee have already done much to 
drum up enthusiasm to attend this event; 
each CCA/ACC camp must plan to have 
delegates at the Congress in Toronto. This 
Congress, with its associated workshops, 
will help us progress - “we need to be there” 
as the campers say. 

The front line of the CCA/ACC is our Ex¬ 
ecutive Director who must tie together all the 
pieces in a purposeful administration. Thank- 
you Marjorie Booth, you do this ably for us. 

Now let us all begin another year with 
vigourous attention to those items which will 
develop and improve Canadian Camping. 

Jocelyn Palm 

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR’S 
REPORT 

The Canadian Camping Association has ac¬ 
complished a great deal in the last year. This 
is due to the foresight and commitment of the 
Board and Chairmen who undertook to 
achieve the various tasks in our Action Plan 
for 1981-82. 

Specifically, the staff of the Association 
have worked hard to facilitate the work of the 
volunteers with a major emphasis on the 
following projects: 


• National Wilderness Travel Leaders 
School, May 1981 

• Publications Catalogue, 1981 Edition 

• Production support for Canadian 
Camping 

• Reports and meeting kits for CCA/ACC’s 
Presentation to Fitness Canada 

• Production of one “How To” pamphlet on 
fitness programs in Camps 

• Presentation to Parks Canada of possible 
CCA/ACC involvement with training 
programs for park users 

A special orientation program was carried 
out for the Board at our May meeting in Monc¬ 
ton. However, the task of orienting a new 
team of Chairmen, following the adoption of 
the Action Plan was certainly helped by the 
liaison system employed by the Association 
Executive. 

One highlight of the past year was the 
visits made to several provincial associa¬ 
tions: B.C., Alta., Ont., Qu§., N.B., and N.S. In 
addition, the opportunity to visit fourteen 
camps during the summer in three provinces 
kept me in touch with the state of the art. 

I am constantly aware of the efforts of 
volunteers with whom the office has closest 
contact. Jan James has worked diligently to 
follow up our meetings quickly with the min¬ 
utes. George Ross, thankfully, is always 
available for consultation when the need 
arises. Our Publications Committee volun¬ 
teers, Judy Richards, Wendy Wren and Beth 
Moon, have contributed much time and effort 
to make this year a success. John Latimer’s 
team for the 1983 Congress have been very 
understanding when the office staff were oc¬ 
casionally over-extended. Jay Haddad’s com¬ 
mitment to quality and professional develop¬ 
ment of our camp leaders is reflected in the 
content of Canadian Camping. 

Mary Roy accomplished so much as a part- 
time Office Manager. Apart from the book¬ 
keeping and secretarial duties, she recon¬ 
ciles all the government grants and is respon¬ 
sible for staffing the Publications Service. I 
am sincerely grateful for your support and ef¬ 
fort, Mary. 

Our President, Jocelyn Palm, has done a 
superb job of guiding the Association during 
the past year. I can honestly say that my se¬ 
cond year with the Association has been 
challenging and has provided an opportunity 
to develop new competence. Thank-you 
Jocelyn, for your patience and guidance. 

In retrospect, 1981-82 has been a very good 
year for the CCA/ACC. My appreciation is ex¬ 
tended to the Board, the Chairmen and the 
entire membership for providing such a 
stimulating environment in which to work for 
camping in Canada. 

Marjorie Booth 

NEWFOUNDLAND & 
LABRADOR 

The 1981-82 year has been very productive for 
the NLCA. Following our spring annual 
meeting in 1981, most members went off to 
their camps or centres to begin their summer 
programmes. The camping association, nor¬ 
mally inactive during this time period, was 
able to engage in some informal, unofficial 
camp visits. Unfortunately, no visits were 
made in relation to checking existing stan¬ 


dards. In addition, a summer newsletter was 
produced although the mail strike delayed its 
release date. 

In September, preparations for a fal. 
workshop began. The theme of the workshop 
was Winter Camping with an emphasis on 
planning now for the upcoming season. The 
workshop drew participants and the overall 
evaluation was good. Also during the fall, 
committee work continued on preparing for 
the Camping Leadership Course to be held in 
conjunction with Memorial University’s Ex¬ 
tension Division. 

The course went ahead with 20 partici¬ 
pants. The start was an intensive weekend 
with required overnight attendance. After this 
weekend, the group met for a three hour ses¬ 
sion for six weeks. The iast days of the course 
concluded with another intensive overnight 
weekend. The course sessions were: 

• Role of Camp Counsellor 

• Child Development 

• Needs of Special Groups 

• Working with Groups 

• Health and Safety 

a. First Aid/Basic Hygiene 

b. Emergency/Search and Rescue 

c. Accidents 

• Planning and Doing Activities 

• Programmes 

a. Music 

b. Games 

c. Cooking 

d. Orienteering 

e. Crafts 

f. Drama 

g. Hiking 

h. Evening and Rainy Day Activities 

i. Environmental Awareness Activities 
Evaluation has rated the sessions and in¬ 
structors very well. Final written evaluation is 
not yet available. 

At the present time work is underway to 
plan for our annual meeting for 1982. It 
appears as if our guest speaker will talk on 
acclimitization with a practical session the 
next day. As well we are in the final stages of 
formulating our new three year plan. It is an¬ 
ticipated that it will be finalized and approved 
by the May 1982 meeting. One of the main 
objectives of this plan will be to reach out into 
the camping community to draw upon more 
people for their input to the Association’s 
special projects and committees. 

Kevin Moore 


NOVA SCOTIA 

This was another year of progress for the 
Camping Association of Nova Scotia. The 
year started out with the Annual Meeting in 
April and the election of the following 
officers: 

Past President - Rev. David Boston 
President - George Matthews 
1st Vice-President - Mrs. Edith Roy 
2nd Vice-President - Mrs. Barbara Burton 
Secretary - Miss Norma Lloyd 
Treasurer - Dennis McCelland 
Directors - Bob Bareham, Barb Daniel 

In June, the Association held a highly suc¬ 
cessful Director/Counsellor weekend at 
Camp Hilles. Over sixty persons interested in 
camping attended this session. The highlight 
of the weekend were the sessions given by 


6 




Mr. Jay Haddad, a former Secretary of the 
Canadian Camping Association. The Pro¬ 
gram Chairman for this event was Murray 
Wickwire. The evaluations of this weekend 
were excellent. 

During the summer, some camps were 
visited to assist the camps to develop good 
health programs and to encourage safety 
procedures that are known by all staff and 
campers. Although not all camps were 
visited, it is hoped that this objective can be 
reached this year. 

In November, we hosted the CCA’s fall 
Board Meeting. In order to take advantage of 
the expertise offered by members of the CCA 
board, the Association developed a one-day 
program on Saturday, November 21, 1981, 
especially geared to Camp Committee 
members and Camp Directors. This was the 
very first venture of its kind put on by the 
Association and it was a very successful 
event. Forty individuals were in attendance 
representing camps from many parts of the 
province. Subjects such as Camp Insurance, 
Staff hiring and training programs, Emergen¬ 
cy procedures, etc. that related to the role of 
Camp Committee members were on the pro¬ 
gram. Miss Jocelyn Palm, President of the 
CCA, gave the opening address with a 
description of her involvement in camping - 
past and present. 

In November, the Association applied for a 
Community Development grant from Canada 
Manpower. We were notified in December 
that we were successful and that we would 
be provided with almost $16,000 to employ 
three people from mid-February to mid- 
August to carry out the work of the Associa¬ 
tion. Miss Lynn Fergusson is Project 
Manager and the other two workers are John 
Gray and John Charles. 

During the year, we have continued to en¬ 
joy excellent relations with the Nova Scotia 
Department of Culture, Recreation and 
Fitness. We received funding from the 
Department to carry out our projects of train¬ 
ing and meetings. During the year, Mr. Glynn 
Bissex resigned as Co-Ordinator of Outdoor 
Services. He has been replaced by Mr. Rick 
Gilbert effective November, 1981. We have 
already started discussions with Mr. Gilbert 
to ensure the continued good relationships 
that we have enjoyed with the Department. 

Our Association made a contribution of 
$500.00 to the International Camping Con¬ 
gress. Our Association started making plans 
to send as large a delegation as we can to 
this Congress last year by raising funds on a 
work project and setting these funds aside 
for travel to the Congress. This promises to 
be an outstanding event and one that should 
be on every person’s mind that is interested 
in Camping. 

The Annual Meeting for the Association 
was held on March 4, 1982. The following 
officers were elected: 

President - George Matthews 

1st Vice-President - Jude DeGuerre 

2nd Vice-President - Murray Wickwire 

Secretary - 

Treasurer - Dennis McCelland 

Members at Large - Elayne Mott, 

Joan Collier, John Charles, Edie Roy 

George Matthews 

NEW BRUNSWICK 

The year 1981 was one of substantial progress 
and growth for our small but active association. 
In reflecting back over the year’s events, it 
becomes obvious that the positive happenings 


within the association far outnumbered the set¬ 
backs incurred. Therefore, I feel safe in saying 
that the past year has been a very satisfying one 
for the volunteers involved with N.B.C.A. 

Without question, the highlight of the year 
was the hosting of the C.C.A. Annual Meeting 
last May. Having this group of talented and con¬ 
cerned individuals present allowed for the 
association to offer its first major conference 
with over 85 delegates from across the province 
converging in Moncton for this event. The 
N.B.C.A. is indebted to the C.C.A. Executive and 
Board for their contributions to the conference, 
and the Camping movement in our province. 

Throughout the summer months, members of 
the executive conducted a small scale camp 
visitation to promote the association. This is one 
area that our board feels very strong on and plan 
to expand this for 1982. 

The fall period proved to be busier than usual 
for our association and with this came many 
peaks and valleys. The Atlantic Outdoor Skills 
School scheduled for St. John in September had 
to be postponed due to lack of registration. This 
was extremely disappointing to the organizing 
committee as the C.C.A. had made special ap¬ 
plication and received funding from Fitness 
Canada to provide us with two excellent 
resource leaders for this course. 

In October, a two day Camp Administration 
session was held in conjunction with the annual 
Leisure New Brunswick Conference. We were 
fortunate to have our Executive Director, Mar¬ 
jorie Booth, present to facilitate this workshop. 
Although the number of people in attendance 
was disappointing, those present were rewarded 
with excellent sessions. 

The fall also saw the Annual Meeting held in 
Moncton and the production of our first direc¬ 
tory. 

Over the year, the association lost the services 
of two dedicated individuals, Kevin Forster and 
Debbie Cooper. These individuals contributed 
greatly to the association and their friendly 
faces will be missed around our board table. 

On the positive side, four new faces were add¬ 
ed to the board. David McCrindle as secretary, 
Bruce Brine as Promotions Chairman, Burns 
Mills as Southern Representative, and Glenn 
Barned as Vice-President. With these new faces 
came the realignment of the committee struc¬ 
ture to provide for continuous activity between 
board meetings. 

In conclusion, I wish to thank the volunteers 
who give unselfishly of theirtime for the associa¬ 
tion, the Canadian Camping Association for 
their continued support and encouragement, 
and our Regional Vice-President, George Mat¬ 
thews, for his interest and guidance to our young 
association. Without your help, N.B.C.A. would 
not be where it is today. 

Ian R. Fowler 

QUEBEC 

Les activity de I’ACQ ont gravity autour de 
deux pbles en 1981-82 soit le Congr^s 82 et la 
promotion. Sous le thfcme: Les Vacances, 
Facteur de Croissance, le Congrfcs qui c’est 
d^route au mois de mars a rencontre un franc 
succfcs sur la quality de I’organisation et de 
sessions offertes aux participants. 

La promotion de I’ACQ a voulu au cours de 
I’annSe & affermir sa representation et I'im- 
age des camps du Quebec par la publication 
de TAnnuaire 82, par une Semaine des camps 
intensive, par une presence de plus en plus 
incitante aupres des media et du publique. II 
est e esperer que la frequentation des camps 
du vacances se maintiendra et s’accroitra. 

Claire Menard 


ONTARIO 

The past year for the O.C.A. has been active 
and forward moving. All the committees have 
carried on their tasks with enthusiasm and ef¬ 
fectiveness. The Committee Chairmen are all 
to be congratulated for their leadership and 
commitment. 

The overall impression that I have as I 
reflect on the past year is of an increased em¬ 
phasis on the objective of the O.C.A. “to pro¬ 
vide for the sharing of ideas and knowledge 
pertaining to the operation of children's 
camps”. 

This trend can be seen in the following 
outline of events: 

1. An O.C.A. Canoe School in the Spring of 1981, 
held in conjunction with the Woodsmanship 
School. Although the registration was small, 
the participants were very positive in their 
evaluation and this event is being repeated in 
cooperation with O.R.C.A. This school em¬ 
phasizes the camp canoeing program. 

2. A Nurses’ Workshop in the Spring of 1981 with 
fifty participants. The evaluation of this was 
overwhelmingly positive, and this event is be¬ 
ing repeated. Vice President, Jane McCut- 
cheon is to be thanked for providing the driv¬ 
ing force behind both these events. 

3. The O.C.A. Library has been recatalogued and 
expanded and is now part of the Education 
Committee’s mandate - to ensure relevant 
and new titles. 

4. The O.C.A. News Is emphasizing educational 
and professional items under the editorial 
policy of Ron and Mickey Johnstone. 

5. In the Fall of 1981 Nelson Wieters led the 
Directors’ Weekend through the challenging 
task of considering camp directing as a pro¬ 
fession and the issue of certification of Camp 
Directors. These issues sparked lively debate, 
and although no decisions were reached, our 
awareness of these issues as an Association 
has increased. 

6. The Education Committee has begun to offer 
“at home evenings” - discussion of the Year’s 
Calendar, Interviewing, Emergency Pro¬ 
cedures, and Behavioural Problems - these 
meetings are open to all members and the at¬ 
tendance has been growing and their value to 
those attending outstanding. 

These events in conjunction with the tra¬ 
ditional Directors’ Conference, Counsellor 
Conference, and Woodsmanship School en¬ 
sure that the educational component of the 
Association is definitely growing. 

Our traditional services such as Stand¬ 
ards, Legislation, Directory and Counsellor 
Placement are functioning well and the Mem¬ 
bership numbers are stable. 

In the year ahead Ontario looks forward to 
hosting the Canadian Camping Association 
International Camping Congress in January 
of 1983 in Toronto, and hopes that many 
C.C.A. members will be our visitors. 

Janet Adamson 

MANITOBA 

1981 has been an interesting year for me to 
work with this volunteer association. I’ve ex¬ 
perienced much support from the elected 
members to the executive committees and 
the appointed persons to the committees 
that made up the Manitoba Camping 
Association Executive Board. I can say with 
confidence that as an Association we are 
providing a voice through which quality 
camping and recreational leadership oppor¬ 
tunities can be experienced by many here in 
Manitoba. 


7 


Some of the highlights for the year were: 

A. The Sunshine Fund reached a record high 
in 1981 despite the problems and inconven¬ 
ience of a postal strike. The total raised for 
1981 was $25,241.13 (actual) plus $621.58 
(opening balance from 1980), for a total of 
$25,86271. This represents a substantial in¬ 
crease over the 1980 actual donations of 
$11,906.35. 

A complete handbook is being compiled on 
how the Sunshine Fund got started and how 
it is effectively run and operated. Important is 
the administration of public funds to which 
this handbook speaks. 

B. During the past year, the Standards Com¬ 
mittee, has made several contacts with repre¬ 
sentatives of the Environmental Manage¬ 
ment Division of the Department of Con¬ 
sumer and Corporate Affairs and the Environ¬ 
ment, with the objective of facilitating for 
M.C.A. member camps the process of obtain¬ 
ing annually the permit necessary to operate 
and retain accreditation. We are hopeful that 
small steps can be taken centrally by M.C.A. 
in 1982 to assist member camps with this 
most important matter. 

C. A decision was made in the fall to combine 
the annual Camp Director's seminar with 
M.C.A.’s Annual Meeting in February of 1982. 
A grant was received from the Winnipeg 
Foundation to subsidize this event. The 
Winter Workshop dealt with principles of 
camp financing. Ron Johnstone, Past- 
President of the Canadian Camping Associa¬ 
tion and a camping consultant was our 
resource person. 

A day long workshop was held on May 5, 
1981 at St. James Y.M.C.A. Joseph Cornell, 
founder Qf the Earth, Sky Nature Awareness 
Program and author of the book “Sharing 
Nature with Children” was the resource per¬ 
son. He covered many unique teaching prin¬ 
ciples and activities that can be applied to 
the teaching and study of nature in a camp 
setting. The workshop was well attended by 
member camps’ program and counselling 
staff. 

D. The newest undertaking was a joint effort 
between the Manitoba Camping Association 
and the Manitoba Chapter of Christian Camp¬ 
ing International to publish 5 newsletters 
yearly entitled “Manitoba Camping Scene”. 
We’re proud of these editions and if you're 
not on the mailing list, drop us a note. 

We may be small; we may be slow, but 
we’re coming and we continually need CCA 
to parent us and give us, as a local associa¬ 
tion, encouragement as you have done so 
well in the past. May we look and work 
together toward providing high standards of 
excellence in the camp and recreation in¬ 
dustry throughout Canada. 

Terry Burkhalter 


SASKATCHEWAN 

The Saskatchewan Camping Association 
has had a very eventful year since last May. 
The S.C.A. reviewed and made several 
changes to it’s constitution in order to re¬ 
apply for continuance under the new Sask. 
Government’s Non Profit Corporation Act. 

The Association held a Future planning 
workshop for all board members at Camp 
Rayner on Oct. 24-25. This workshop was to 
design a plan of growth for the S.C.A. The 
workshop organized by Jack Croteau was 
very productive with several plans and some 
hard work coming out of the session. Such 


items as membership recruitment, finances 
and publicity were worked on extensively. 

The Summer of 1981 was also a very busy 
one for the S.C.A. Our Standards Program 
was renewed for the ten accredited camps. 
Of the ten, nine applied to be reaccredited. 
The camp visitations, by members of the 
Board, took place during the summer. Cer¬ 
tificates of accreditation will be presented at 
the S.C.A. Annual Meeting May 1,1982. 

Over the winter the S.C.A. Board has 
undergone several changes in personnel. At 
present there is a 5 member gap due to 
transfers out of province. However the Board 
is anticipating a new insurgence of member¬ 
ship this spring with elections. 

Committee work has been, even with the 
reduced Board, active. Our Spring confer¬ 
ence will be under way this year with an add¬ 
ed bonus of the CCA/ACC Annual meeting. 
CCA/ACC Executive Director Marj Booth has 
greatly helped in the organization of this con¬ 
ference and has assisted the S.C.A. Board in 
times of need this winter. A special thanks to 
her for her work and concern. 

The S.C.A. was planning a special coun¬ 
sellors session in May called “Counsellor In 
A Day”. This was to be a special skills session 
with counsellors province wide. We are hop¬ 
ing that next year we will be able to get this 
project off the ground. 

All in all S.C.A. has had a challenging year. 
The people that we have on the board are 
dedicated to the S.C.A. and camping in this 
province. I would like to personally thank 
everyone of them for their strength and 
perseverance. The S.C.A. will continue to be 
in Saskatchewan a force for better camping 
standards, and will continue to work for the 
camping population. 

David Godwin 


ALBERTA 

The strength of the camping movement in 
Alberta, and the strong commitment of each 
A.C.A. volunteer is reflected in the work of the 
Alberta Camping Association in 1981. 

Below are shared several of the highlights 
of the Alberta Camping Association in 1981: 

• LONG RANGE PLANNING 

The Five Year Plan initiated in October, 1980, 
was refined, and the resources required to ac¬ 
complish were identified. Jan James greatly 
assisted with the revision process. 

Gary Luthy and Jan Crook have started the 
process of revising the A.C.A. constitution; 
the newsletter reflects the goals stated in the 
plan. 

This document will serve as a valuable 
workshop document for the A.C.A. members 
and Board. 

• RESIDENTIAL CAMP IMPROVEMENT 
PROGRAM 

Throughout 1981 A.C.A. members contacted 
their members of the Legislative Assembly to 
encourage the adoption of a financial aid pro¬ 
gram to assist residence camps with capital 
improvements. Thanks! to all A.C.A. 
members who have made their needs known 
to MLA’s. 

• FINANCES 

A serious examination of the finances of the 
A.C.A. was undertaken by the Board in the 
spring of 1981. The Board held all expenses to 
the absolute minimum and searched for new 
sources of revenue. All A.C.A. members are 
encouraged to assist with the fund raising 
function. 


The close scrutiny of finances will con¬ 
tinue in ’82. 

•WILDERNESS TRAVEL 
Wilderness Travel continued to grow and 
develop. The A.C.A. hosted a Wilderness 
Travel Leadership Course for the Canadian 
Camping Association in May. Through the 
dedicated efforts of Gary Luthy, Bruce Elkin, 

Chris Miller, Marnie Virtue and Marjorie 
Booth, participants from the camping move¬ 
ment throughout Canada experienced this 
special A.C.A. Leadership program. Fitness 
Canada and Alberta Recreation and Parks 
provided financial assistance to this pro¬ 
gram. 

The Wilderness Travel Instructor Develop¬ 
ment Program and one Wilderness Travel Pro¬ 
gram were also hosted in ’81. 

• MEMBERSHIP 

Deidra Edwards very capably and competent¬ 
ly developed the 1981 A.C.A. Directory and 
kept the membership books. 

• EDUCATION 

Jan Crook and the Education Committee 
worked closely with other Alberta Associa¬ 
tions, most noticeably the Alberta Orien¬ 
teering Association. A project to map 
several Alberta camps was initiated in ’81, 
and will continue to be developed in ’82. 

• COMMUNICATIONS 

Ron Nichol produced four newsletters, each 
fulfilling the mandate slated In the Long 
Range Plan. Through Ron’s efforts, the 
A.C.A. can now benefit from the printing ser¬ 
vices provided to members of Sport Alberta. 

Many A.C.A. Board and Committee mem¬ 
bers contributed greatly to A.C.A. in *81. 
Shirley McFall and Marc Langlois and tht^' 
Conference Committee must be congratu¬ 
lated on an excellent conference. Jan 
James’ unending quest for the early history 
of our Association continued, Alison 
Walker’s secretarial services, Carson Hen- 
rick’s services as treasurer were accurately 
and willingly given. 

The Alberta Camping Association faces 
many challenges in 1982. With the con¬ 
tinued efforts of the Association's many 
dedicated volunteers, I am sure it will be a 
bright and prosperous future. 


BRITISH COLUMBIA 

The Government of the Province of British 
Columbia has abandoned its long history of 
licensing summer camps. Except for appro¬ 
vals by the Health Department and other 
specific agencies, the government no longer 
regulates children's camping. 

As a result, government agencies and pro¬ 
vincial foundations now look to the BC Camp¬ 
ing Association’s Standards and Accredita¬ 
tion Program as the recognition a camp 
needs in order to qualify for foundation fund¬ 
ing or for government sponsored campers. 

In 1981, a government grant was received 
that permitted Ted Dinsley, Membership 
Secretary of the BCCA to tour the province, 
encouraging membership in the Association 
and explaining our Standards Program. He 
identified 82 non-member camps and made 
contact with each. 


Jean Funk 


8 



The provincial government’s interest in the 
BCCA in 1982 will include a staff person hired 
for the summer with a possibility of an Ex¬ 
ecutive Director being appointed in the Fall. 
The Safety and Awareness Division of the 
Ministry of Lands, Parks and Housing con¬ 
siders our involvement as a key element 
replacing the previous licensing system. 

The major problem facing BCCA is the lack 
of strong volunteer support. Committees are 
usually understaffed and participation at 
regular monthly meetings is weak. It was our 
goal in 1981 to correct this problem and we 
have been only marginally successful. It is 
our ambition in 1982 to ensure a more active 
membership. 

Lome Bowering 




ARCHIVES COMMITTEE 

The activities undertaken in the area of Ar¬ 
chives during the past year have been consis¬ 
tent with the Action Plan for this committee. 

Last May a sample questionnaire on camp 
archives was circulated to all provincial 
presidents with the hope that it might be 
useful in gathering pertinent information 
about our past. Several provinces used the 
questionnaire at some point last year. 

The oral history (taping “Guidelines for 
Interviews’’, which were developed by the 
OCA Archives Committee were circulated to 
each provincial contact responsible for ar¬ 
chives. The “Finding Aid for CCA/ACC Ar¬ 
chives” stored at Trent University was also 
forwarded to each province. 

The ongoing challenge for this committee 
is to encourage all the provincial associa¬ 
tions to store the records of their past in a 
systematic way. We still lack contacts for Ar¬ 
chives Chairmen in some provinces. 


CONSTITUTION 

COMMITTEE 

Our CCA Constitution has had very few 
amendments since its inception and also 
there have been very few changes in the By¬ 
laws of the association since they were first 
written. 

Being Chairman of this Committee is a job 
that usually falls onto the shoulders of the 
immediate Past President because he or she 
should be familiar with the workings of the 
association and know where changes, if any, 
should be made to effectively operate the 
association. 

Since taking over the position we have 
made a few housekeeping changes in the for¬ 
mat to bring things up to date. However, we 
did make a significant change in creating 
three Vice-Presidents - one for the West, one 
for Central Canada and one for the Atlantic 
provinces. 

If you or your province association feel that 
some sections of the Constitution or By-laws 
need revision or additions, please let us know 
about them. We are happy to look at any sug¬ 
gested changes and make recommendations 
to the Board. 

E. Clifford Labbett 


CONSULTATION/ 
SPEAKER’S BUREAU 
TASK FORCE 

The objective of the Consultation/Speaker 
Bureau is to have developed by summer of 
1983 a list of national consuitant/speakers 
who could be called on to address various 
topics related to camping. The list would 
have a minimum of forty-two (42) persons. 

The Task Force is attempting to collect 
names of persons and topics by soliciting the 
provincial presidents and provincial con¬ 
ference chairman for ideas as well as ap¬ 
proaching certain individuals. 

Names and topics will be collected until 
the fall of 1982 and a list will be compiled, col¬ 
lated and individuals contacted for permis¬ 
sion. 

It would be hoped that provinces will be 
able to use this list when planning seminars, 
workshops or conferences. 

Any input would be welcomed by the Task 
Force prior to October 31,1982. 

Wayne Perkins 


EDUCATION COMMITTEE 

In the Fall of 1981, an initial group consisting 
of Janet Adamson, John Wilkinson and Stan 
Talesnick were asked to join me to form the 
Education Committee. The assignment for us 
was to put into action the first stages of the 
Board's long range plan for the professional 
development of camp directors. During this 
work, we have been joined by Carolea Butters 
(Carolea Butters is Chairman of the Ontario 
Task Force on Professional Development) 
who wished to observe the development of 
this assignment at the national level. 

As the basis of our research we used the 
Committee’s Objective to: 

“examine, make recommendations for and 
publicize a variety of educational opportuni¬ 
ties for the professional development of 
camp directors in Canada. (This could in¬ 
clude the preparation of a self-directed learn¬ 
ing curriculum for use anywhere in Canada).” 

We developed eight steps to lead us 
toward a proposed curriculum or body of 
knowledge. All of this research is to come 
from within the Canadian Camping communi¬ 
ty. To date, we have completed three of these 
steps and have compiled a significant 
amount of data. 

By January 1983, the Committee expects 
to complete this current aspect of the long 
range plan and will be prepared to host a Pre- 
Congress Educational Workshop where the 
material compiled by the Committee will be 
presented and assessed by delegates from 
across Canada. The expectation is to deter¬ 
mine the basic core curriculum required for 
professional development of camp directors. 

Dorothy Walter 

ENVIRONMENT 

COMMITTEE 

With the arrival of spring the CCA/ACC En¬ 
vironment Committee has renewed its efforts 
in the development of an Environmental 
Ethic. This ethic is an attempt to offer some 
sound philosophy and guidance for the wise 
and appropriate use of our natural surroun¬ 
dings at camps, and everywhere. Initially the 
ethic was to be completed by March 1982, as 

9 


per the CCA/ACC Action Plan, but this date 
has now been extended to September 1982. 

Assistance toward this goal has been lent 
to date by these persons: Jim Hopkins, Tom 
Knowlton, Grant Linney, Diane Bertling and 
Susan Erskine. Some further support has 
recently been offered by Kevin Moore of New¬ 
foundland, Rob McIntosh of Alberta and 
John Jorgenson of Ontario. An April date has 
been set to better define the terms and scope 
of an ethic and to take positive steps toward 
its completion. Thanks kindly to these folks. 

The Environment Committee has also been 
represented by discussion of the sharing of 
the National Survival Institute’s Acid Rain 
Education Kit with CCA/ACC camps (as an¬ 
nounced in Canadian Camping, Winter 1982, 
Vol. 33, No. 6) and the potential for input by 
our association to the development of skills 
programs in Canada's National Parks. Mar¬ 
jorie Booth has spearheaded both of these 
projects. 

It is hoped that as the wheels get rolling, 
this committee will be able to offer more to 
the membership through the next year by 
completion of an Environmental Ethic and 
communications through the association’s 
newsletter, Canadian Camping. 

Grateful thanks to Jocelyn Palm and Mar¬ 
jorie Booth for their guidance, and to Jane 
McCutcheon for her support and in her role 
as executive liaison to this committee. 

Peter Rasberry 


EXECUTIVE WORKSHOP 
TASK FORCE 

As part of the Canadian Camping Associa¬ 
tion’s Action Plan adopted in May of 1981 an 
Executive Workshop Task Force was identi¬ 
fied, the immediate objective being “to con¬ 
duct by 1983 a pilot project of an annual work¬ 
shop for volunteer executive members serv¬ 
ing in provincial associations which will 
focus on volunteerism”. The intent at that 
time was to conduct the workshop in con¬ 
junction with the International Camping Con¬ 
gress in January of 1983. However, in January 
of 1982 the Canadian Camping Association 
was informed that the funding request to the 
federal government for the 1982/83 fiscal year 
to cover workshop funding was not approved. 
Therefore the proposed workshop has been 
postponed to the fall of 1983 with the intent to 
request funding again for the fiscal year 
1983/84. 

Though no Task Force members have as 
yet been recruited some action has been 
taken: former volunteer workshop reports 
from the Canadian Camping Association and 
the Royal Life Saving Society have been 
studied and the 1981 Report on the Status of 
Volunteer Leadership Development in 
Canada for Fitness Canada has been care¬ 
fully considered. Discussion has taken place 
with executive members of a few other volun¬ 
tary organizations and drawing from the 
foregoing a check-off questionnaire has been 
developed to share with our executive 
volunteers to determine the priority needs of 
these members, thus determining the focus 
and possible structure of the workshop. The 
questionnaire is being sent to all executive 
volunteers prior to the Saskatoon Board 
Meeting in May. Prior to the return of the 
needs questionnaire results, task force 
members will be recruited, a format for the 
Executive Workshop will be developed, 
leadership will be considered and a budget 



will be developed in preparation for a full pro¬ 
posal to the Canadian Camping Association 
Board in October of this year. 

G. Ivan Robinson 


FRENCH LANGUAGE 
COMMITTEE 

The French Language Committee con¬ 
tributed to the CCA/ACC in several ways this 
year. 

We were responsible for the translation of 
the article: Comment organiser un pro¬ 
gramme de voile. In addition, we re-typed and 
proof-read the French text of Le Guide du 
Coureurde Bois. Last autumn we contributed 
an article on statistics in French to Canadian 
Camping. 

Currently, we are actively recruiting 
speakers to give sessions in French at the 
Congrfcs international des camps/lnter- 
national Camping Congress. 

The objectives for 1982-83 include submis¬ 
sion of additional articles in French to Cana¬ 
dian Camping. (All members who can write 
articles should be encouraged to contribute 
French material as well!) Further, the com¬ 
mittee will submit a report to the Board with 
recommendations for translation priorities. 

Rosaire Corbin 


FUNDING COMMITTEE 

The Funding Committee submitted its writ¬ 
ten report to the Board of Directors in 
February 1982. The report reflected the two 
major themes of alternate funding sources 
and membership fee structure. 

Specific information was included on foun¬ 
dations, corporations, individual mem¬ 
berships and special projects as possible 
alternate avenues of financial support. 

The membership study resulted in the 
presentation of five options which would 
significantly affect the funding of the nation¬ 
al association. 

The Board will discuss this report at their 
annual meeting and their conclusions will 
doubtless result in some effective financial 
planning for our future. 

Rick Ryan 


IMMIGRATION 
TASK FORCE 

The protocol worked out with the Federal 
Ministry of Employment and Immigration, at 
our annual meeting in Ottawa with senior of¬ 
ficials, has worked so well that it was con¬ 
tinued without change for 1981. It is our hope 
that these procedures will become establish¬ 
ed and accepted by camps and the Govern¬ 
ment so that from year to year the hiring of 
some foreign staff can be carried out 
smoothly. We have enjoyed excellent cooper¬ 
ation from the Federal officials involved. 
They have been helpful, understanding and 
supportive of our position. 

Only three problem situations arose just 
prior to camp time and again these were 
caused by camps which did not follow the 
procedural steps faithfully. I would urge all 
provincial presidents to remind camp direc¬ 
tors to follow the protocol sent to them. 

One camp brought in a staff member under 
what appeared to be false pretenses. The per¬ 
son and the camp was castigated by the 
Regional and Federal offices. The camp is on 
probation for 1982. This camp’s action has 
reflected adversely upon all Canadian camps 
and we have had to give the strongest possi¬ 
ble assurances that member camps are 
following the protocol faithfully. Please cau¬ 
tion your provincial camps. The privilege ex¬ 
tended by the Federal Government could be 
revoked if it is believed that any camp or 
camps is circumventing the agreed protocol. 
It is assumed that camps are acting in good 
faith. 

The statistics compiled by the Federal 
Government are in the chart below. 

Barry Lowes 


1983 INTERNATIONAL 
CAMPING CONGRESS 
TASK FORCE 

Many of our earlier difficulties have been 
overcome, and we are now ‘on target' with the 
plans. 

The Congress will be held at the Sheraton 
Centre, Toronto. The room prices seem to be 
quite high, and we are now endeavouring to 
get them lowered. However, we are also try¬ 
ing to warn delegates in Canada of the higher 
Toronto prices with the hope that they will 
start to "save” now. We need the support of 
every delegate to live in the Hotel, otherwise 


costs of the meeting rooms become extreme¬ 
ly high. This is not unusual for a hotel to 
relate the costs of the meet¬ 
ing rooms with the number of bedrooms 
booked. 

Regarding finances, we will be encourag¬ 
ing individual members of C.C.A. to contri¬ 
bute, with the hope that we can overcome a 
planned deficit of approximately $4,000.00 at 
the present time. I am confident we should be 
able to cover this deficit, through both in¬ 
dividual and private donations as well as cor¬ 
porate support. The reason for the deficit is 
due to high costs of bringing in world-wide 
speakers, as well as meeting rooms. This lat¬ 
ter would be cut considerably if we book 500 
bedrooms per night. 

Speakers have been booked from centres 
across Canada and the United States as well 
as New Zealand, England, India, Bermuda, 
and Japan. And we are hoping for more! The 
programme committee has been doing an ex¬ 
cellent job, and the first mailing will be ready 
for publication at the end of April, with the 
distribution being done in mid-May. 

The Department of External Affairs have 
been extremely helpful in circulating informa¬ 
tion to 32 countries. 

Kindred groups will be meeting in Toronto 
prior to the Congress, and this therefore 
should help with attendance and involve¬ 
ment. 

Provincial Associations are asked to help 
in the promotion of this Congress. Such pro¬ 
motion could be done through their own 
newsletters or meetings, and any support or 
information which is needed will be gladly 
supplied. 

I am also pleased to report that 8 sessions 
will be given in French, with simultaneous 
translation being offered at each of the three 
key sessions. The registration form will be bi- 
lingual, as well as other necessary informa¬ 
tion. Sessions being presented in French will 
have the item listed in French in the pro¬ 
gramme. 

Provincial Associations are also asked to 
support the Congress by seeking out poten¬ 
tial exhibitors from their own province. Any 
‘leads’ should be directed to David Sands 
through the C.C.A. office. 

John Latimer 


FOREIGN CAMP COUNSELLORS (CCDO 2333-126) 



NFLD PEI NS 

NB 

PQ 

ONT 

MAN 

SASK 

ALTA 

BC 

SUB 

TOTAL 

TOTAL 

1980 

8 

1 

21 

709 

10 

5 

16 

54 

**89 

*739 

828 (1) 

1981 

5 


**8 

9 

**25 

654 

**3 

13 

**6 

3 

**3 

13 

**22 

56 

**67 

*763 

820 


•With Manpower Clearance 

*‘Without Manpower Clearance (those without Manpower Clearance were admitted to the country under various exemption codes 
such as Working Holiday Programs, Canadian Crossroads, etc.) 

(1) ‘4 not stated’ included in total 1981. Source: Canada Manpower & Immigration 


10 



LEADERSHIP 
DEVELOPMENT 
PROGRAMS COMMITTEE 

CONSULTANT/ADVISORS PROJECT 
Four associations have made proposals for 
workshops using consultant/advisers this 
'‘r spring. The workshops involve leadership 
training for camp staff in a particular 
physical skills area. “A consultant/adviser 
will provide quality resource leadership in 
order to train leaders in each provincial 
association.” With the assistance of the 
CCA/ACC Executive Director the names of 
resource people and the arrangements for 
these workshops are being finalized. 

SYSTEM OF EVALUATION 
I have developed forms for workshop evalua¬ 
tion and information that has to be com¬ 
pleted in meeting funding criteria for Fitness 
Canada on the Consultant/Advisor Project. 
These forms also serve as a beginning to 
develop systematic and consistent records 
and evaluation of CCA/ACC programs. Infor¬ 
mation from the forms will as well, act as a 
basis for articles in the “Canadian Camping” 
and provide news of CCA / 
ACC events to all members. 

LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT 
PROGRAMS COMMITTEE 
A committee of contacts from each associa¬ 
tion has been formed under the title, ‘Leader¬ 
ship Development Programs’. Through writ¬ 
ten correspondence I have asked for their 
involvement in considering a possible se¬ 
cond draft of the CIT manual begun by Jean 
Funk and her committee. Originally it was my 
understanding this was developed as a how¬ 
to manual. However the format in its present 
draft is that of a survey of cross-Canada C.l.T. 
programs schedules, lesson plans and 
evaluation forms. Details from the Publica¬ 
tions Committee need yet to be outlined and 
a new submission date decided. 

COMMUNICATION OF LEADERSHIP 
PROGRAMS 

Existing programs and workshops planned 
by associations have been listed in the 
“Canadian Camping” in a calendar format as 
opportunities of leadership development. 
This will be a regular feature as workshop 
dates become known. 

Dinny Biggs 


LEGISLATION 

COMMITTEE 

The Legislation Committee functions as a 
“watchdog” on federal legislation which 
could possibly have an influence on the oper¬ 
ations of member camps. However, there has 
been no federal legislation passed this year 
which will directly affect camping. 

Discussion is currently underway concern¬ 
ing the Small Vessel Regulations which come 
under the Canada Shipping Act. These 
changes are being discussed by the Marine 
Safety Advisory Committee. Some of the pro¬ 
posed changes would have a significant im¬ 
pact on sailing, canoeing, water skiing and 
boating programs at camp. Both Ron John¬ 
stone and Jocelyn Palm are representing the 
interests of camping in these deliberations. 

MAGAZINE TASK FORCE 

Formed after last year’s annual meeting, this 
task force was mandated to study the feasibility 
of the CCA (re) launching a magazine. During the 
past year, I have studied the question and con¬ 
sidered the present circumstances and limita¬ 
tions. This report is intended only to highlight 
the results of the study. Further details can be 
obtained from the task force’s complete report. 

Essentially, the task force considered the past 
and current magazine/newsletter efforts. Most 
aspects related to such publications were in¬ 
vestigated. These included: circulation, advertis¬ 
ing, format, editorial policy, financial implica¬ 
tions, etc. 

The results of the study essentially suggest 
that the CCA should not re-launch its magazine 
per se, but should make some distinct and con¬ 
scious efforts to broaden/ 
change its current “newsletter” in three (3) 
areas: 

1) Initiate a major subscription campaign to at¬ 
tract as many camp staff subscribers as 
possible. 

2) Establish an editorial policy to reflect the 
change in readership. 

3) Actively seek advertising revenue with a view 
to having the publication be a revenue 
generator. 

Further recommendations and suggestions 
are included with the complete report. 

The CCA has the potential to make some 
significant improvements with its publication, 
and at the same time, move towards the 
establishment of a small financial resource. 

Derek Walsh 


NEWSLETTER 

COMMITTEE 

As is evidenced by everyone, we’ve gone to a 
new format for the CCA/ACC Newsletter in an ef¬ 
fort to: 

a) upgrade and improve the quality of our pro¬ 
duct and 

b) to be able to put more information on our 

pages. 

Typesetting has allowed us to move in the 
direction of fulfilling both of these goals. 

Also, we have an Editorial Board to assist me 
consisting of John Latimer, John Walker, and 
Murray Wickwire. 

We have several standard features: Editorial 
(bilingual), Letters to the Editor, Interview, Poem, 
Menu, Group Dynamics Exercise, Regional 
News (Western, Central, Eastern). We are in the 
process of initiating two additional “regular” 
features: a camping ADVICE column to deal with 
questions, problems, difficulties in any area of 
camping from hiring and firing to bulk purchas¬ 
ing and maintenance. Pm very excited and opti¬ 
mistic about this feature. 

The second feature will hopefully be a regular 
PHOTOGRAPHY WINNER - perhaps a camper 
or a camp submission. We will recruit outside 
assistance in this area with the hopes of 
possibly using some colour photographs “spon¬ 
sored” by a company. 

The feedback and support have been nothing 
short of excellent - the country is responding 
and reinforcing our every effort and we will 
endeavour to improve our quality. With 16 pages 
per issue, at present we experience no trouble in 
filling our pages; in fact, we have difficulty 
because we must delete good articles and infor¬ 
mation. We hope the enviable position will con¬ 
tinue to exist! Our hope is that there will be an in¬ 
crease in French language submissions - from 
articles to opinions. 

Currently, we are committed to four issues per 
year but we will evaluate this position annually 
as we will evaluate our subscription rates. When 
we have a few more issues published, we then 
hope to chase advertisers with a product they 
would “want” to be a part of. This will be a 
1982-83 initiative. 

Lastly, I would like to thank Marjorie Booth for 
her help, assistance, and encouragement for our 
Newsletter. May we continue to grow! 

Jay Haddad 




Leadership/Skills Development Opportunities 



EAST 

CENTRE 

WEST 

JULY & 
AUGUST 

NS: Travelling Resource Personnel 

Camp Visitations 

Alta: Standards and Program 

Visitations 

SEPT. 

Atlantic Woodsmanship School 
hosted bv NB 


OCTOBER 


CCA/ACC Executive Meeting, Toronto 

Ont: Man-Environment* Alta: (CCI) Christian Camp* 

Impact Conference Conference 

NOV. 

Nfld: Leadership Event 

Ont: Director’s Weekend 

Man: Director’s Workshop 

DEC. 


Pre-Conqress Registration Deadline: 20 December 1982 

JAN. 


National: CCA/ACC Board of Directors - January 24-25,1983 

Promotions, Standards, Education Workshops January 25-26,1983 



INTERNATIONAL CAMPING CONGRESS - January 26-29,1983 

CONGRES INTERNATIONAL DES CAMPS 

FEB. 

NB: Winter Skills 

Nfld: Camp Counsellor Conference 

Sask: Winter Skills 

MARCH 



Alta: Directors Conference 

CCA/ACC Executive Meeting 

Vancouver 

•These events are not sponsored by CCAfACC. However the National Office can forward the names of interested members to the groups responsible. 


11 


PUBLICATIONS 

COMMITTEE 

A. PUBLICATIONS SERVICE 

At the beginning of the year new policies 
were established concerning all aspects of 
the Publications Service. A new system of in¬ 
ventory control was established and several 
publications were evaluated and added to the 
current catalogue. 

A concerted effort was made to increase 
the revenues through larger displays and pro¬ 
motion at conferences and workshops 
across Canada. Such displays were prepared 
for the ACA Conference, SCA Counsellor 
Conference, CANS Directors Conference, 
ACQ Congrds, Ontario Director’s Workshop 
at Bark Lake, OCA Director’s Workshop, OCA 
Counsellors’ Conference and OCA Con¬ 
ference in March. 

We are grateful to the OCA for making 
special arrangements for our booth in the ex¬ 
hibit area at the OCA Conference. 

Various signs have been made for promo¬ 
tional purposes at future conferences and 
workshops. 

The profit on sales of publications is up 
25% and we hope that with further efforts 
this trend will continue. 

Judy Richards, Wendy Wren 

B. CCA/ACC PUBLICATIONS 

This year four “HOW TO” publications have 
been produced. The topics covered include 
Sailing, Winter Camping, Waterfront, and 
Fun & Fitnpss. All were produced in both of¬ 
ficial languages. 

Work is progressing on a brief biography of 
Mary S. Edgar and her contribution to camp¬ 
ing. Also highlighted will be her inspirational 
writings and ways to use them in quiet time 
and devotional programs. This publication 
should be available to the public by July 1982. 

Application has been made for funding 
through Fitness Canada for a special project 
for National Physical Activities Week in May 
1983. This project would involve the revision 
or reprinting of a family camping booklet 
available to the general public. The launching 
of this project is contingent on receipt of the 
required funding from Fitness and amateur 
Sport. 

Beth Moon 


PUBLIC RELATIONS AND 
PROMOTION COMMITTEE 

I was delighted last summer to be asked to 
chair this Committee and undertook it with 
enthusiasm. In reflection though, there is lit¬ 
tle concrete to report. I would dearly love to 
list a number of key successes in our work of 
publicizing camping in Canada but instead, 
we have beginnings and continual efforts to 
keep us in the public eye. 

The biggest promise at present is the Pro¬ 
motions Workshop in Toronto in January, 
1983. It is a unique and exciting project which 
could be the seed of a growing national 
publicity campaign which will reap benefits 
for several years to come. At this point I have 
developed the skeleton for the workshop. The 
budget will be submitted for the next Ex¬ 
ecutive Meeting. Before and after the sum¬ 
mer I anticipate visiting Toronto to firm some 
arrangements. I feel very strongly about this 
project and know it can be terrific. 

In November I attended the Board Meeting 
in Halifax where, with the great help of Terry 
Burkhalter, we began the planning for ’83. 

I have been writing several articles for the 
press. I have done a local radio interview, a 
syndicated TV show and two print interviews 
on camping and how to choose a camp. In all 
I have discussed both International Congress 
and the Promotions Workshop. 

This summer I will be travelling in the west 
and hope to be able to do some PR for CCA 
there. I gave a workshop on Publicity of 
Camps. 

I want to thank Fitness Canada for the 
financial support to attend the November 
meeting. Special thanks for support and en¬ 
couragement also go to Jocelyn Palm, Jane 
McCutcheon, Marjorie Booth. 

This year has been a valuable learning ex¬ 
perience for me and I am very impressed with 
the calibre, enthusiasm and expertise of the 
people with whom I have worked. I look for¬ 
ward to the next year of hard work and suc¬ 
cess. 

Marnie M. Ellis 


RETAIL SALES 
TASK FORCE 

The Canadian Camping Association has con¬ 
sidered whether one method of fund-raising 
might be through retail sales. This considera¬ 
tion must be made along with the discussion 
of the Funding Committee Report. 

Obviously, no final decisions have been 
made yet. However, one or two products are 
being examined carefully with a view to hav¬ 
ing a report ready for the Board early next 
year. 

Janet Adamson 


STANDARDS 
TASK FORCE 

During the past year we have been gathering 
and updating information on the various pro¬ 
vincial standards programs and their 
methods of accreditation. 

We have been advised that Fitness Canada 
will financially support a special workshop in 
January 1983 to examine the national picture 
on standards and recommended practices 
for member camps. Here are what I believe 
that tasks ahead involve: 

1) Provincial comparison of written standards as 
to what exists based on the summer of 1981 

2) Process of implementation documented 
again by provincial comparison under specific 
topics as: 

• who has mandatory standards 

• who uses a scoring or percentage system 

• is there a pass/fail system 

• question of authority as it relates to 
provincial legislation 

• informal/formal ties to provincial 
licensing bodies 

• is accreditation/visitation an annual, 
biennial or triennial process 

3) Explore and examine the composition of 
visitation and accreditation teams: 

• who qualifies to accredit a camp 

• what qualifications are required 

• what training is required yearly 

• who provides this group with credibility 
and authority 

Early in the new year we will establish con¬ 
tact with the various Standards Chairmen in 
the provincial associations to begin our prep¬ 
arations for the January Workshop. 

Brian Law 



i'Ve never been to 

CAMP BEFORE 


12 








SOUTH PACIFIC REPORT 
- Witness to Excellence - 


The South Pacific - zone of the southern 
cross - is a most impressive part of the 
world! The distances between the island 
groups and the vastness of the Pacific 
Ocean itself inspired what will bean ever ex¬ 
panding respect for the navigational talents 
demanded of the islanders. 

The voyage included the following 
regions of the South Pacific: the first leg 
was from Toronto to Los Angeles and then 
after a stop in Hawaii to the Fiji Islands; the 
second stage took the writer to Nauru in 
Micronesia and then to the Solomon 
Islands. From that area, the journey con¬ 
tinued by travelling back to Nauru and Fiji 
and then on to New Zealand. Finally, the 
homeward section included Hawaii and 
back to Canada via Los Angeles. 

Origin of the expedition came from long 
association with the Kanawa International 
Museum of Canoes, Kayaks and Rowing 
Craft. The primary purpose of the voyage 
was to study the Polynesian migrations but 
at the same time learn about the various cul¬ 
tures in the South Pacific and to find craft 
which might be available in that part of the 
world. From the literature and through an ex- 
—s amination of the few Pacific craft held in 
Kanawa, it became a mission that could no 
longer be postponed. The most revealing 
publication discovered in preparation for the 
undertaking was Canoes of Oceania by 
Haddon and Hornell. This gave to the writer 
an insight into the great diversity of water¬ 
craft that are found in the islands. 

In anticipation of the journey to Microne¬ 
sia, Melanesia and Polynesia, the following 
variables were selected as an appropriate 
base for the study: 

• construction modes • art forms 

• navigation techniques • music & chants 

• natural materials • building tools 

• canoe related equipment 

A more general goal was to experience 
first hand the environments from which the 
various canoes of the Pacific originated. 
This was considered essential to a proper in¬ 
terpretation and display as specimens were 
acquired. Simply to present a canoe without 
supporting description could not begin to 
do justice to the people who created them. 
Accordingly description of the environment, 
tribal traditions, probable origins and nature 
of waterways, were recorded in order to pro¬ 
vide an inspirational experience for future 
visitors of all backgrounds. 


^ As suggested above, another purpose for 
the voyage was to acquire hand and wind 
propelled watercraft which would give North 
Americans in particular, some further in¬ 
sight into the magnificent talent of the 
Pacific Islanders. Although some tentative 


by: Professor Kirk A. Wipper 

plans had been made regarding appropriate 
craft for acquisition, these were for the most 
part abandoned in favour of better possibili¬ 
ties in the regions visited. As the trip unfold¬ 
ed, many adjustments became essential 
and, in addition, the itinerary was altered to 
take advantage of preferred opportunities. A 
rigid schedule simply could not be tolerated. 
There is, in that region of the world, a differ¬ 
ent rhythm of viewing time and meeting 
deadlines. For the most part, it becomes 
necessary to live and work in time with the 
Pacific way or suffer the consequences and 
frustrations of the alternative. This condi¬ 
tion, interestingly enough, is not a handicap 
but rather an adventure in alternate lifestyle. 
There is a particular attraction in adapting 
to the unpredicted and in so doing, getting in 
tune with the people in their terms. In any 
given area several different specimens 
could be considered representative of that 
locality. 



Photo Courtesy: Wipper, 

Kanawa Museum and University of Toronto 


To provide the reader with some insight 
into the watercraft of the South Pacific, the 
following random descriptions are provided: 
Fijiian thamakau - a single outrigger canoe 
with Oceanic lateen sail and a lee platform. 
This canoe in its time, was purported to be 
one of the finest outrigger canoes ever made 
and in some cases as long as 30 metres. Be¬ 
cause of the scale of the thamakau the 
owner was usually a chief, a village or an ex¬ 
tended family. 


Fijian drua (pronounced ndrua) - a great 
double canoe with dugouts of unequal size 
held together by a rather elaborate but prac¬ 
tical deck structure. Samoans and Tongans 
built similar vessels - all with the capacity 
to carry sometimes over 200 warriors and 
with the capacity of speeds up to 15 knots. 
New Guinea lakatoi - usually a large com¬ 
posite raft built up of three or more dugout 
canoe hulls lashed together with a deck 
covering them all. Propulsion was achieved 
with two masts and crab claw sails. When 
tacking the craft is reversed. Deckhouses 
are covered with palm leaves as a means of 
protection from sun and storm. 

New Zealand Waka Taua - a Maori war 
canoe that was powered by sail and pad¬ 
dles. The hull was carved from a giant log 
with the use of a specially designed adze. A 
great deal of ritual was observed in the mak¬ 
ing of the canoe because the ceremony and 
the art served as a tribute to their ancestors. 
It also reflected a sense of harmony with the 
natural world which was important to the 
Maori people. 

Hawaiian Wa’s Kaulua - these twin log dug- 
outs were well calculated for speed and reli¬ 
ability in rough weather. The sleek symme¬ 
trical design allowed these extraordinary 
craft to endure unpredictable conditions on 
the long voyages* that were undertaken. 
Modern materials are now used but the an¬ 
cient designs remain unchanged. In Hawaii 
today, it is possible to see numerous 
replicas of the craft used for centuries. 
Western Solomon Islands Tomako - a most 
graceful craft with high bow and stern 
sweeping up in crescent shape from the 
ends of the canoe. Pearl shell inlay adorns 
the entire length of the craft in symbols 
bearing a special meaning for the users. 
White cowrie shells appear on the outer 
edge of the unswept ends of the canoe while 
carved bone ornaments are attached along 
the interior edges. Near the water line under 
the bow, the legendary Nguzunguzu head is 
attached. Overall it is a most inspiring sight! 


The abiding impression left with the 
visitor is that the canoes of the South 
Pacific deserve the utmost of respect for 
their excellent form, their unexcelled beauty 
and their extraordinary diversity. The 
achievements of the islanders serve as a 
source of inspiration for even the casual 
viewer. 

Throughout the expedition, there were 
peak incidents and episodes from which a 
great deal was learned. Such high points 
would not have been possible without the 
groundwork and guidance of Kanawa 
Museum representatives and friends. Unfor¬ 
tunately space in this abbreviated report 


13 




does not allow full revelation of all the peo¬ 
ple who assisted. Consequently only a few 
people and their contributions are mention¬ 
ed as examples of the important role played 
by them. Most notable was the faithful, un¬ 
tiring effort put forward by Diane Goodwillie 
of the World Y.W.C.A. in the South Pacific. It 
was at her suggestion that visits were made 
to Raymond Burr’s “Garden of the Sleeping 
Giant” near Nadi, Fiji. There Kami Mali and 
Inahe Lutuciri the carver showed enthusias¬ 
tic interest in constructing traditional Fijian 
canoes for Kanawa - especially the drua. 
This discovery, shortly after arrival in Fiji, 
provided a definite impetus to the overall 
purpose of the visit. 

At the Thurston Gardens Museum in 
Suva, Fiji, Fergus Clunie and his colleagues 
were supportive especially in arranging ac¬ 
cess to the extraordinary Myreht’s draw¬ 
ings. These gave to the writer some further 
insight into the diversity that exists in South 
Pacific watercraft. That variety comes as 
the result of differences in environment, in¬ 
cluding: purpose for which the canoe was 
used; availability of construction materials; 
nature of waterways i.e. ocean, inland 
waters, rivers etc.; tribal traditions; and 
builders’ design innovations. In reference to 
the latter, the local people could readily 
identify the builder through just a cursory 
glance at the canoe. No doubt each builder 
in his turn took into account the best effort 
of his mentors and then added his own 
creative talent to excel what had gone 
before. 

It may be useful here to describe the clas¬ 
sification attempts made in Fiji even though 
no conclusive taxonomy resulted. Only two 
such groupings are recorded as examples; 
the first refers to the overall design while the 
second relates to purpose for which the 
canoe was used. 

Group I 

simple dugouts • dugouts with outriggers • 
dugouts with outriggers that can be sailed 
or paddled • double canoes for paddling • 
double canoes with sails • outrigger canoes 
with multiple sails • double canoes with 
multiple sails • canoes with more than one 
outrigger sailed or paddled • multiple 
canoes with one or more sails. 

Group II 

river canoes • inside reef canoes • voyaging 
canoes • war canoes • fishing canoes • rac¬ 
ing canoes • ceremonial canoes. 

To return to people and episodes, it is fit¬ 
ting to identify Geoff Bamford who provided 
residence in his home and who afforded 
considerable encouragement in the mis¬ 
sion. His knowledge of the South Pacific 
was extensive and of great assistance to the 
mission. Stephanie Odegard and Emele 
Vulara, administrators of a unique Art and 
Craft Centre for the Fiji Government, made a 
most sympathetic effort to develop oppor¬ 
tunities to pursue the purposes indicated 
earlier. Without their untiring efforts much 
less would have been accomplished in Fiji. 
The opportunity to experience the Pacific 
Ocean on a Takia with Aisahe would not 
have happened without their perseverance. 


In the Solomon Islands, Salome Samou at 
the Honiara Museum made a number of con¬ 
tacts through which materials and informa¬ 
tion was gathered of considerable impor¬ 
tance to the Kanawa Museum. In these 
islands there are many tribal traditions still 
quite intact, but relatively unrecorded. For 
the outside researcher, such material is of 
inestimable value especially in reference to 
the extraordinary achievements in the realm 
of dugout canoes. 

David Simmons and Myra Alexander at 
the renowned Auckland War Memorial 
Museum in New Zealand gave important 
direction in contacting the Maori people and 
in locating relevant materials. Most notable 
were the D’Urville drawings which were of 
unusual assistance in the purposes of the 
Kanawa project. In Rotorura, of hotspring 
fame, the Morgan family who, as a bonus 
had considerable experience in theSolomon 
Islands, went far out of their way to assist by 
arranging helpful introductions and by offer¬ 
ing generous hospitality when it was most 
appreciated. For the Maori, Tuti Tukaokao 
became an unlimited source of information. 
His long experience and his exceptional in¬ 
sights were clearly an inspiration. Each visit 
revealed yet another aspect of the Maori cul¬ 
ture which made appreciation of their water¬ 
craft ever more exciting. His willingness to 
carve a canoe according to the rich tradition 
of the Maori people was of utmost impor¬ 
tance to Kanawa. At the time of writing, the 
ceremony of tribute to the tree destined for 
such an achievement will have been con¬ 
ducted by the Maori people. This and all 
other rituals as well as the various stages of 
construction will be carefully recorded for 
archival purposes. 

The journey homeward was enhanced by 
the kindness of the clergy serving at the 
Holy Family Rectory in Honolulu, Hawaii. It 
was fortunate indeed that the writer was af¬ 
forded the privilege of making that location 
the home base. Discussions of the Hawaiian 
Islands in the informal chats that occurred 
in the mornings and evenings were helpful. 
During the explorations in the islands of 
Hawaii important contacts were made. The 
first was Tom Holmes, founder of the Hoke 
lau expedition from Hawaii to Tahiti. His 
knowledge of Hawaiian canoes and of 
Pacific navigation was of significance for 
Kanawa. 

It was in this encounter that credence 
was given to the notion that the deliberate 
navigation achievements of the Polynesians 
was far greater than most writers have ac¬ 
knowledged. Is it possible that they sailed 
as far as the Americas and transplanted 
some of their achievements in that part of 
the world? 

Another fortunate contact was made with 
Espanaia W. Christy, Master Carvefof Poly¬ 
nesia (Hawaiian village installation) who 
agreed with the support of his helpers to 
produce a fine quality model dugout and 
then a full sized canoe for the museum. The 
prospect of the canoe coming to Canadp ap¬ 
peared to be of unusual significance to 
Espanaia and his enthusiasm blossomed 
accordingly. 



Photo Courtesy: Wipper, 

Kanawa Museum and University of Toronto 


Overall it was impressive to note the wide¬ 
spread interest in canoe heritage. To experi¬ 
ence first hand the magnetism of simple 
craft in remote reaches of the South Pacific 
does reinforce and confirm the validity of 
the Kanawa project. To be steeped in the 
areas where such fine craft were construc¬ 
ted and used has a unique appeal. It has 
also introduced a challenge that will require 
many years of continuing investigation. 

There were fringe benefits to the voyage. 

To study canoes without making significant 
reference to the people who created thenar 
would be folly. It was instructive to be in th 
midst of the South Pacific people and to 
begin to grasp the depth of their cultures. As 
noted earlier it is essential to understand 
and appreciate the profound sense of har¬ 
mony that the Micronesians, Melanesians 
and Polynesians feel with their natural sur¬ 
roundings. This developed over the centuries 
largely as the result of their dependence on 
the bounty of food that was available from 
the land and sea. Further it is important to 
be aware of the reverence held for those who 
lived before and who were able to penetrate 
to the unknown to establish new settle¬ 
ments. The art work which appears on the 
canoes and other artefacts attests to the 
hands which persist between the living, their 
forefathers and the world of nature on which 
they depend. It appears that as the roster of 
ancestors increased in numbers and in 
adventurous exploits so did the ritual, art 
and music that paid respect to them. To ex¬ 
plore these and other aspects of South 
Pacific Island cultures is to begin to contact 
the essence of what are some of the most 
remarkable watercraft on this planet. No 
region of the world has produced finer craft 
than the people of the South Pacific. 

For the writer, an expedition of such posi¬ 
tive result could not have been realized with¬ 
out the dedication and commitment of mam^ 
people. Accordingly their contribution wi. 
always be recalled with special gratitude! 

In summary, the current status, depen¬ 
ding on subsequent funding, for acquisi¬ 
tions for the Kanawa Museum is as follows: 

Continued page 15 


14 


GROUP DYNAMICS EXERCISE 


This exercise is another "groupthink” where¬ 
by you are trying to achieve consensus 
among the members of the group. Remember 
that consensus is defined as “a general feel¬ 
ing of agreement” and the essence of achiev¬ 
ing consensus is ‘‘talking out” the conflict. 

A few years ago, a sociological survey in 
the United States rank ordered 15 varying 
occupations for the perceived quality of 
‘‘PRESTIGE” by the general public. Give each 
group member this list: 

AUTHOR OF NOVELS 
NEWSPAPER COLUMNIST 
POLICEMAN 
BANKER 

SUPREME COURT JUDGE 

LAWYER 

UNDERTAKER 

PROVINCIAL PREMIER 

SOCIOLOGIST 

SCIENTIST 

PUBLIC SCHOOL TEACHER 
DENTIST 
PSYCHOLOGIST 
COLLEGE PROFESSOR 
PHYSICIAN 


The task of each group member is to rank 
order these occupations from number 1 to 
number 15 in terms of the most "prestigious” 
occupation to the least "prestigious” occu¬ 
pation. Once each individual has completed 
the task, hand out a new sheet of the occupa¬ 
tions listed so that the group can work 
together and this sheet will be the "group 
sheet”. Perhaps the group’s first hurdle is to 
define the word "prestige” - is it related to 
s power, respect or money? Once their defini¬ 
tion (or Oxford’s) is clear, it will be easier to 
work from the same frame of reference. 

The rationale and psychology of "group¬ 
think” is the same as that outlined in the 


Winter ’82 edition of Canadian Camping. 
Please refer to it for some of the theoretical 
principles as well as guidelines for group size 
etc. 

This exercise has been changed slightly as 
we have inserted "Provincial Premier” in 
place of "State Governor” from the original 
U.S. version. 

The answers, please remember, are not 
half as important as reflecting on what pro¬ 
cedure^) the group used to achieve task 
completion. How did people interact? Were 
there arguments? Why? Did it result in better 
group function with good, convincing efforts 
to debate? Was anyone ignored, not brought 
into the group consensus conversation, or 
overpowered? Why? Did all groups finish in 
approximately 30-60 minutes? If not, why? 
These are the issues which make groupthink 
exercises fun - the human dynamics are 
always changing and therefore are always a 
challenge to a leader. Every group is dif¬ 
ferent! 

And now the answers, which reflect the 
U.S. attitude of the attribute "prestige” on the 
15 occupations. Have Fun ... 

SUPREME COURT JUDGE 
PROVINCIAL PREMIER 
PHYSICIAN 
SCIENTIST 

COLLEGE PROFESSOR 

LAWYER 

DENTIST 

PSYCHOLOGIST 

BANKER 

SOCIOLOGIST 

PUBLIC SCHOOL TEACHER 

AUTHOR OF NOVELS 

UNDERTAKER 

NEWSPAPER COLUMNIST 

POLICEMAN • 



Photo Courtesy Camp Gay Venture 


South Pacific Report continued: 



Photo Courtesy: Wipper, Kanawa Museum and University of Toronto 


Now on hand in Canada: 

1. Ceremonial Maori paddle 

2. Model drua - Fiji 

3. Carved Fijian head - vesi wood 

4. Model outrigger from Niue 

5. Maori war canoe model - Rotorura, N.Z. 

6. Malaita model canoe - Solomon Islands 

7. Painting of Thomakau by Fred Whippy - 
Fiji 


Nuzu-nuzu head - Solomon Islands 

9. Maori woollen canoe blanket 

10. Shell money - Solomon Islands 

11. Tepuke canoe model - Solomon Islands 

12. Hand carved paddle - Fiji 

13. Three Masi mats - Fiji 

14. Several additions to Kanawa Museum 
library. 

Planned for acquisition and now in various 
stages of negotation: 

1. Fijian drua 

2. Fijian takia 

3. Nauru canoe model 

4. Western Solomon war canoe 

5. Gela plank canoe - Solomon Islands 

6. Solomon Tikopia 

7. Ysabel canoe 

8. Maori war canoe 

9. Hawaiian paddling outrigger 

10. Solomon ceremonial canoe 

11. Three paddles: one traditional Maori; 
one Papua New Guinea; one Solomon 
Islands 


12. A set of two Solomon Islands paddles 
for ceremonial canoe 

13. One Solomon Islands bonito fishing 
stick used in conjunction with canoe 

Under consideration at the time of writing: 

1. Fijian Thomakau 

2. Fijian bavello 

3. Maori canoe mask 

4. Papua New Guinea mask 

5. Vaka outrigger sailing canoe from Cook 
Islands (sewn plank) 

It will be appreciated that in six weeks in a 
region as vast and varied as the South 
Pacific one can really only do a cursory 
survey of the canoes. Certainly we brought 
back valuable and representative artefacts, 
but these and the work I was able to do must 
be supplemented and enriched by years of 
solid research. And if any of my readers can 
suggest research sources or isolate for us 
new artefacts we would be most grateful for 
their interest. • 


15 






B.C. Holds 1st Annual Leadership 
Development Camp 

by: Dave Adair 


After months of planning and preparation by 
members of the B.C. Camping Association 
and the Association of Neightbourhood 
Houses, (Camping Unit) the first annual B.C. 
Leadership Camp was held April 3 to 7th. 
Over the course of the 5 days 35 youths - 16 to 
18 years old were involved in our intensive 
counsellor training program that started 
each morning at 8:00 and went to 11:00 each 
night. The counsellors came from all over 
B.C.: including the lower mainland, the 
Queen Charlottes, Kamloops, Williams Lake, 
Vernon, Kelowna and so on. Between them 
they represented 25 or more different camps. 
Now at the end of an exhausting but exhilara¬ 
ting 5 days the strongest single impression 
is, what a tremendously talented, creative, 
mature and committed group of young peo¬ 
ple we will have working in our camps this 
summer. 

The program itself was very intensive with 
nine different resource people coming into 
the camp for particular topics; in addition to 
programs led by the eight full time camp 
staff. Each day started at 8:00 with Kati- 
mavak a wake-up session of camp songs, 
stunts, games and a cup of hot chocolate. 
Most of the morning sessions were concep¬ 
tual ones dealing with such topics as: 
Leadership and Group Dynamics, Principles 
of Program Planning, The role of the Leader 
and so on. Leaders from these sessions in¬ 
cluded Ken Low (Calgary Action Studies 
Group), John Hasell (Director, B.C. Dept, of 
Recreation), Doug Soo (Boys and Girls Clubs 
of Vancouver) and Dave Kabool (Vancouver 
Neurological Society). 



Photo Courtesy: Dave Adair 



Photo Courtesy: Dave Adair 


For afternoon sessions we scheduled pro¬ 
gram carrousels to allow participants to take 
part in two or more skill development activi¬ 
ties. Topics covered included: Trials walking 
with Ken Lowe, Rock Climbing, and introduc¬ 
tion to ropes course elements, canoeing, 
Camp crafts, Co-operative Games, Acclima¬ 
tization, Compass course, initiative games 
and tasks, first aid and so on. Evening pro¬ 
grams included both theory and program ses¬ 
sions on such things as: camp fire programs, 
rainy day programs etc. The final item in each 
day’s schedule was a group meeting for each 
of the four groups of counsellors with their 
group leader. Each day ended therefore with 
an opportunity for participants to discuss 
and reflect on the day’s activities in a small 
group setting. It also provided senior staff 
with direct feedback at the end of each day 
which allowed us to make changes as we 
went along. 

Inevitably the outline of a program tells 
little about the flavor and spirit of a camp ses¬ 
sion and this of course is what makes camp¬ 
ing special. It is certainly what made this first 
B.C. Leadership camp a rather extraordinary 
experience for all of us. We started the camp 
on a cold rainy afternoon and completed a 
full afternoon of programs with enthusiasm 
still high. By supper time it was snowing so 


one group came into the dining hall dressed 
in Christmas outfits singing Christmas 
carols. This set the tone and at every meal to 
the end of the week there were skits, stunts, 
songs/theme meals and so on. By Sunday 
night we had 5 inches of snow on the ground 
so naturally dinner was a Hawaiian theme. If 
one mark of a good camp is that it is a “sing¬ 
ing camp” then this was a very good camp 
indeed. 

We had not scheduled in a specific pro¬ 
gram on sing songs and as it turned out it just 
wasn’t needed with this group. From day one 
to day five people were singing. On the last 
day several of the counsellors got together 
and wrote out the words for a number of 
songs that people wanted the words for and 
these will be duplicated and sent out to all 
participants. 

At our final all camp meeting on the last 
night in camp the participants decided that 
they wanted to change their final morning 
program to allow time to make some things 
to leave behind to commemorate their exper¬ 
ience. The next day they divided into three 
groups; one to make a new, and much need¬ 
ed, camp sign, another to start a tree fort and 
a third to complete a dam under a section of 
our ropes course. Danny Stewart, a Haida 
from the Queen Charlottes, carved a small 
dugout canoe and presented it to the camp at 
the closing awards ceremony. This canoe will 
now become the symbol of our annual leader¬ 
ship camp and as it moves from camp to 
camp each year new camp names will be 
carved on it. 

All of us who took part in this camp, came 
away richer. A tradition has been started and 
the camping movement in B.C. has taken a 
major step forward. 

Thanks are due to a number of people that 
made this camp possible. Funding was pro¬ 
vided by the Chris Spencer Foundation, the 
Vancouver Foundation, Fitness Canada and 
both the B.C. and Canadian Camping 
Associations. A number of B.C. Camps pro¬ 
vided resource people on a voluntary basis. 
The camp was organized and staffed by the 
Camping and Outdoor Unit of the Associa¬ 
tion of Neighbourhood Houses of Vancouver# 



Photo Courtesy: Dave Adair 


16 


Let’s all 

C.C.A’s 

Cam 



January 26 to 29, 1983 at the Sheraton Centre, Toronto 

Keynote Speakers: 

Sir Edmund Hillary, Dr. Alec Dickson, Dr. Leo Buscaglia 

• 80 informative, educational & entertaining sessions to choose from • 

• “CANADA WELCOMES YOU TO ONTARIO” Breakfast • 
featuring: music by Sharon, Lois & Bram 
• Visit sights in & around Toronto - Great Entertainment • 

An event to be shared by all in the camping movement 
Congress programme & registration information will be sent to all 
CCA members in September S 160/S 1 25 

Canadian camping association des 

association camps du Canada 


SUITE 2. 1806 AVENUE ROAD • TORONTO. ONTARIO M5M 3Z1 TELEPHONE: (416) 781-4717. 


CCA/ACC NATIONAL STATISTICS 



1980 

1981 

CAMP DATA 

Accredited Member Camps 

590 

533 

Non-Accredited Member Camps 


44 

Day Camps 

126 

125 

Resident Camps 

453 

468 

Extended Season Camps 

N/A 

7 

Camper Beds (Capacity) 

64,276 

74,762 

Camper/Days 

3,962,848 

4,046,388 

STAFF DATA 

Volunteer Staff 

18,405 

12,247 

Paid Staff 

19,282 

20,539 

Staff/Days 

1,125,676 

1,151,255 

Staff - Students 

18,787 

16,784 

FINANCIAL DATA 

$ Food Costs 

11,454,000 

12,607,000 

$ Salaries 

17,279,000 

19,448,000 

■OUTSIDE CANADA 

oreign Campers 

9,790 

9,130 

Foreign Camper/Days 

1,503,268 

185,609 

Foreign Counsellors 

1,076 

1,268 

Foreign Counsellor Salaries ($) 

558,000 

524,331 

Foreign Camper Fees ($) 

3,125,000 

3,500,940 


Menu 

Feature 


WALKING SALAD 

12 Apples 

2 cups cottage cheese 
1/2 cup raisins 
1/2 cup nuts 
2 Tbsp. mayonnaise 

1. Cut the tops off the apples and core them, 
leaving the bottom skin over the hole. 

2. Scoop out the pulp of apples and chop with 
cheese, raisins and nuts. 

3. Mix with mayonnaise. 

4. Stuff the mixture into the apple shells and 
put the tops on. 

This salad is called Walking Salad because it 
can be eaten while hiking. 

Courtesy: New Brunswick Council Girl 
Guides of Canada/Guides du Canada. 


COMING IN FALL ISSUE 

The Camping Advisor 

We have had a number of requests for infor¬ 
mation concerning staff, management, 
leadership, sexuality, program, campers, 
maintenance, purchasing, legal liability and 
others. 

We will begin a new column in the fall 
issue: The Camping Advisor. Send your ques¬ 
tions to us and we will endeavour to answer 
them. Contact: 

“The Camping Advisor” 
c/o Editor, Canadian Camping 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 


• The 1980 data was based on a response from eight provincial 
associations; the 1981 figures represent provincial totals for six 
associations. 

• Camp data indicates that some resident camps are also listed 
as “extended season” camps. 

• The large increase in camper/days and staff/days is probably 
due to the longer summer vacation period (10 weeks) for 
students. 

• Since we do not have an average age for camp staff in each prov¬ 
ince, it is difficult to conclude why the number of staff who were 
returning to full-time studies dropped in 1981. Perhaps camps 
are attracting more graduates as staff. 

Compiled by: 

Marjorie Booth 

March, 1982 


17 



















Announcing: A 

NATIONAL PHOTO CONTEST 

The CCA/ACC would like to feature as well as reinforce many of our 
campers and staff who take some excellent pictures throughout the 
summer - yet we never have had a chance to see them. 

We want to change that; so we invite you as Camp Directors and 
Staff to communicate the following to your campers & staff: 

CANADIAN CAMPING will feature a Photograph of Out¬ 
standing Quality in each issue. Campers and staff are invited 
to submit photographs of people, nature, program, tripping 
or other subjects related to your camp experience. 

Whether you use an instamatic or single lens reflex with 
many attachments, it is not important! The four campers 
and/or staff whose photographs are featured in CANADIAN 
CAMPING will receive a hard cover book on Canadian Photo¬ 
graphy. So enter as many photographs as you like! 

Entry Details: 

• All photographs submitted become the property of the Canadian 
Camping Association but they will not be used outside of CANADIAN 
CAMPING without your permission. 

• Photographs in Black and White and Colour are invited, however 
reproduction in CANADIAN CAMPING will be in Black & White. 

• Label each photograph on the back with the following printed infor- i**\, 

mation: Photographer’s Name, Camp Affiliation, Camper or Staff 

Entry, any other information about photograph. 

• Submission Deadline for Fall Issue of CANADIAN CAMPING is 
Sept. 15, 1982. Photographs received at the CCA/ACC National 
Office by that time will be considered. Campers and Staff may still 
submit photos after this date for our Winter, Spring and Summer 
issues. 

• Photographs should be mailed to: Canadian Camping Photo Con¬ 
test, 1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1. 


ENTRY FORM 

NAME:_Camper □ Staff □ 

ADDRESS:____ 

PROVINCE:_POSTAL CODE:_HOMETEL:_ 

CAMP AFFILIATION: _ 

SPECIAL INFORMATION: (Category, etc.) _ 




18 




Dispose of camp food 
service problems with 

ROYAL (h fit €t 
disposable plates and bowls 

Strong, attractive Royal CHINET food service products help you ... 

• DISPOSE OF DISHWASHING COSTS 

Cut the expense of installing, maintaining and manning equipment 
that is used only a few months of the year. 

• DISPOSE OF BREAKAGE 

Save yourself the trouble and expense of buying matching replace¬ 
ments for pieces that crack, chip and shatter. 

• DISPOSE OF FOOD WASTE 

You get exact portion control with Royal CHINET’s wide range of 
sizes in regular and compartmented designs. 

• DISPOSE OF GERM COLLECTORS 

Royal CHINET products are sterilized when manufactured and 
packaged. And there’s never a germ-collecting chip, crack or 
poorly washed dish. 

• DISPOSE OF IRRITATING NOISE 

Disposable service is silent service. Meals are relaxed without the 
clatter and crash of china or metal. 

ENVIRONMENTAL ADVANTAGES, TOO 

All good campers want to protect the environment. Royal CHINET prod¬ 
ucts are manufactured from a renewable resource. What’s more, they’re 
biodegradable ... molded of natural wood fibres that burn readily with 
little smoke. Even if discarded out-of-doors, Royal CHINET quickly de¬ 
composes in the earth. 

Get the full particulars now. Mail this coupon today. 


CANADIAN KEYES FIBRE COMPANY LTD 
HANTSPORT, NOVA SCOTIA 

Please provide me with details of the variety and costs of Royal 
CHINET food service products. 

NAME_ 










Canadian camping association 
association dcs camps du Canada 


i 



SUITE 2. 1806 AVENUE ROAD 
TORONTO ONTARIO M5M 3Z1 


VOL 34, NO. 2 
SUMMER 1982 
ISSN 008-3119 



2a 

02 

MS. 

JANE 

MCCUTCHEON 

C.C. 

A. V 

ICE PRESIDENT 

CAMP 

TAW 

INGO 

R.R. 

tn 


HUNT 

SV1LLE ON 

P0A 

1K 0 



4 




> 


fin Important Massage to fill Members 

^ O 

In January 1983, the Canadian Camping Association, in co-operation with the Ontario Camping Association, will sponsor the First In¬ 
ternational Camping Congress. This will be held at Toronto’s Sheraton Centre. 

This will be a significant event, for it will be the first time that Camp Directors and Youth Leaders from around the Wo'^cNvilj^be in¬ 
vited to gather together to share their knowledge and experience in organized camping. We will have the opportunity to me^arjd hear 
speakers of International renown. As well,we hope that delegates from all across Canada and the United States will be newest itj^ith 
representatives from many European and Asian Countries as well as Africa, Australia, South America and Japan. Cr h - 

Although we expect a record registration, additional funds will be required to cover the tremendous costs of bringing^vypll kripwn 
resource speakers to Toronto. In addition to this, many delegates might need some financial assistance to make the journey to 
Canada, as their agencies or sponsors operate on minimal budgets. 

We have therefore launched a fund-raising drive to cover these additional costs. We hope to receive substantial donations from 
several large foundations, as well as Industry and Government. 

However, in good faith, we are also hoping to raise a significant sum from within our own membership. We are asking for your sup¬ 
port, not only as a delegate, but also in the form of a small financial contribution. If every member made a donation, we would be able, 
to assist many delegates from outside of North America to attend our Congress - thereby enhancing the quality and prestige of this 
unique meeting. Truly, this could become a Congress of International value. 

Every member who makes a donation ... whether it be $5.00, $20.00 or even $100.00 will be acknowledged in our printed progra 
material. It is hoped that we may proudly exhibit a very long list of donors! /' v 

Will you help? This can be done by detaching the form below, completing it, and sending it to us along with your chequer ^ 


Al Goodman , Chairman, Fund-Raisin i 


g Committee 


Donor’s Name and Address 




Hi 


Camp Represented 


Provincial Association 


-ea- 


Name you wish to be acknowledged 


ZL 


-TO 1 


• «\flG w -c 

Please make cheques payable to International Camping Congress, 1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, Toronto, M5M~3ZT. , * rww 

Persons who wish a receipt for tax purposes must make the cheque payable to the Canadian Camping Association 

20 











