CANADIAN CAMPING 


— 










FREE TELEPHONE SERVICE 

from 

GIBBONS 

while you are in camp 
Pick up your telephone and call 

EMpire 6-5085 

any hour — Day or Night 


This line is kept open to receive your orders—charges 
refunded on your invoice. 


JELLY POWDERS 
PIE FILLINGS 
CAKE MIXES 
Chocolate, Ginger 
White, Spice 


PUDDING POWDERS 

FRUIT RICKEYS 
Lime, Orange 
Grape, Lemon 


/ . IDDrtWlc Quickset 

GIBSONS rt FOR 

Quality 


DESSERTS 


106 ADELAIDE STREET WEST - EMPIRE 6-5085 - TORONTO, CANADA 

All Orders Prepaid to You 





From EATON'S 


For years we’ve been outfitting campers with almost everything they need to 
help make their camping holiday as enjoyable as possible. The following are a few 
of the camping necessities available at EATON’S Sporting Goods Dept.: Ground 
Sheets, Thermos Jugs, Iceboxes, Dunnage Bags, Blanket Pins, Sun Helmets, Plates, 
Pots, Cups, Fishing Tackle, Mosquito Bars, Gasol ne Stoves and Lanterns, Folding 
Cots, Chairs, Rucksacks, Packsacks, Sleeping Bags. Contact Sporting Goods 
Department. 

EATON'S 


Toronto, Canada, June , 1952 




















Make your life easier and safer with "Eveready" Flashlights and Batteries. 
These amazing Batteries not only recover power between uses for longer 
life . . . they are now packed with 24% more power. Insist on "Eveready" 
Nine Lives Flashlight Batteries and get a bonus of 24% more hours of 
light. 



“NINE LIVES” 


TBAOfMAGK 

FLASHLIGHT 

BATTERIES 


“Eveready”, “Nine Lives” and the Cat Symbol are 
registered trade-marks of 


NATIONAL CARBON LIMITED 

MONTREAL TORONTO WINNIPEG 


4 


Canadian Camping 











CANADIAN CAMPING 


Vol. IV 


JUNE, 1952 


No. 3 


CONTENTS 


Towards the Philosophy of Camping. 

Memorable Experiences . 

When Life is in Your Hands. 

Food for Campers.-. 

Developing a Job Analysis. * .-. 

Child Art Goes to Camp. 

A Little Nonsense Now and Then. 

Newsletter. 

Notes from Provinces. 

Kawagama Cine-Series . 

Book Reviews . 

Camp in India — National Girl Guide Camp 
Trading Post — In Lighter Vein . 


. John Hoyle 7 

. W. E. Yard 11 

. Lois M. Miller 13 

Dr. Elizabeth Robertson 16 

. Irwin Haladner 18 

.. Erma Sutcliffe 20 

. Joyce Bertram 22 

. W. E. Yard 24 

. 26 

. 28 

. 30 

. 32 

. 34 


Cover Photo from Glen Bernard Camp 


CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 
Office: 52 Avenue Road, Toronto 


Honorary President 

A. L. Cochrane, Toronto 

Past Presidents 

Taylor Statten, Toronto 
Dais L. Gass, Montreal 
Anne I. Vail, Montreal 

President 

W. E. (Ted) Yard 
Central Y.M.C.A. 

40 College St., Toronto 

Vice Presidents 

Irwin Haladner, Toronto 
F. M. Van Wagner, Montreal 
Mrs. I. H. McDonald, Manitoba 


Executive-Secretary 
Joyce Bertram 
52 Avenue Road, Toronto 

Treasurer 

To be appointed 

Editor 

Mary S. Edgar 

64 St. Clair Ave. W., Toronto 

Assistant Editor 

Mary L. Northway 
164 Mill Street 
Richmond Hill, Ontario 

Publishing Agent 
Fred Haiblen 

170 Bloor St. W., Toronto 


“CANADIAN CAMPING” IS PUBLISHED FOUR TIMES A YEAR BY THE CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
CO. FOR THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION AT 170 BLOOR ST. WEST, TORONTO, ONTARIO. SUB¬ 
SCRIPTION PRICES: MEMBERSHIP IN THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION INCLUDES CANADIAN 

CAMPING: TO NON-MEMBERS, 35 CENTS PER COPY. $1.25 PER YEAR, $3.50 FOR THREE YEARS. 

AUTHORIZED AS SECOND CLASS MAIL, POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT. OTTAWA, ONT. 


Toronto, Canada, June, 1952 






































A Commitment 

Have you sat in wide-eyed silence 
While the flickering embers glow , 

Listening spell-bound in the firelight 
To a tale of Long Ago? 

Do those evenings by a campfire 
Light the dusk of later years? 

Do those ne 3 er-f or gotten memories 
Still dispel your shadow-fears? 

If a campfire and a story 
Were your dower long ago, 

You 3 ve a legacy most precious 
And a debt to Youth you owe. 

You must light young eyes with wonder 
By the magic of a fire, 

And lead them with a story 
To the Land of Heart 3 s Desire. 

—Mary S. Edgar 


6 


Canadian Camping 






Towards a Philosophy 

in Campiny _## 

John Hoyle 

Director , Camp Gay Venture 


In a previous article an endeavour 
was made to present some of the more 
obvious needs of campers as basic to a 
working philosophy of camping. In 
this article we would like to consider 
some underlying principles which seem 
equally basic. 

It is difficult, perhaps, to realize that 
camping purposes and practices have 
changed as much as they have in the 
past forty years. Just as the buggy has 
given way to the automobile, and the 
over-the-fence gossip to the telephone, 
so our camping objectives,' principles 
and practices have changed and, per¬ 
haps, to even a greater extent. If we 
do not agree with this statement it may 
be well for us to undertake a searching 
scrutiny of our own camp lest in the 
progress that has been made in educa¬ 
tional theory and practise our own 
camp remains, philosophically—a little 
red school house. 

The writer never fails to blush when 
he thinks back to his first camp. It 
was in 1910 when he spent two weeks 
as the leader of a group of teenage 
boys under canvas. While there were, 
no doubt, inherent values in intimate 
personal contacts, the emphasis was 
essentially on orderliness and skills 
rather than on persons. What a con¬ 
trast this makes with to-day when our 
primary emphasis, our focus of pro¬ 
gramme, is the camper. Not so much 


what he does, as what he is and is be¬ 
coming, through his camp experience; 
not the quantity of badges and awards 
he secures but what sort of a person he 
is becoming through the influence of 
his camping experience. 

Perhaps one of the advances to be 
noted is the emphasis now being placed 
on relaxation. In the earlier days camps 
seemed to be geared up just to get 
people over-tired. Campers frequently 
returned home thoroughly exhausted 
and in need of a prolonged rest before 
being fit for school responsibilities. To¬ 
day it is recognized that the programme 
should be so planned that the camping 
experience may be one which will build 
up the physique, tend to calm the emo¬ 
tional stresses induced by highly organ¬ 
ized city life and, in general, provide 
that type of experience which will re¬ 
turn the child home rested in mind, 
body and spirit, fully adequate for the 
drive of school life with its concomi¬ 
tant social and cultural pursuits. A 
formal rest period of one hour, or one 
hour and a half, for all staff and camp¬ 
ers is now the usual procedure. Some 
children, however, require more rest 
than this provides, and wherever neces¬ 
sary an extra hour of rest at some other 
period, or a period of quiet play, may 
be indicated to suit the individual case. 
Even a day of relaxation in the infir¬ 
mary with books, puzzles and games 


Toronto, Canada, June, 1952 


7 




may be a wise move for the easily ex¬ 
citable child. Some camps have gone 
further than this and have entirely 
eliminated bells, gongs or bugles, and 
horror of horrors, sirens. A word by 
counsellors that it’s .time to wash up for 
a meal, or time to move on to the next 
activity is quite sufficient and helps in 
the orderly process of doing things with¬ 
out pressure. Granted that the art of 
punctuality is desirable; is it necessary 
to make a child go without his dessert 
or Tuck Shop privilege because he is 
a minute or two late? Meal times are 
periods when digestion depends upon 
a lack of nervous stimulation. The child 
who has to rush to the call of a bell, or 
who is suffering from a severe repri¬ 
mand, is not in the best position for ade¬ 
quate digestion. A kindly word of ex¬ 
planation as to the importance of 
being punctual is usually quite suffi¬ 
cient and equally effective. 

Relaxation is to some extent the anti¬ 
thesis of regimentation. One wonders 
why there has been so much regimenta¬ 
tion in camp. It is probably a carry¬ 
over from military life on the basis that 
discipline will be easier and campers 
will more quickly carry out what is re¬ 
quired of them. But, after all, is that 
what we are trying to do? Is our aim 
not rather to assist campers in becom¬ 
ing more self-disciplined, more creative, 
more observant, more able to provide 
their own interests, more self-depen¬ 
dent. Rigid discipline produces auto¬ 
mata, self discipline produces campers 
able to take their place, and pull their 
weight, in a democratic environment 
where the most important person is 
the camper, not the leader. 

Many camps to-day are practising or, 
at least, experimenting with some kind 
of a “choice” programme. In a choice 
programme campers are encouraged as 
individuals, small groups, or cabin 
groups to decide for themselves what 


they want to do each day, and each 
period of every day. In this way camp¬ 
ers learn to experience the privilege of 
free choice and its corollary that with 
free choice goes the responsibility of 
accepting the results of that choice. Un¬ 
der this plan children elect what thev 
wish to do at each activity period of 
the day. Individuals will select one or 
other of the regular activities. Small 
groups may decide on some special 
activity such as building a raft, picking 
wild strawberries, spending a morning 
in a previously built tree-house, rowing 
down the lake, or fishing. The obvious 
danger of over-specialization may easily 
be met by wise motivation. “You spent 
two periods working on your new 
leather belt, * what about doing some 
work in campcraft so that you will be 
ready for the two days’ trip I hear your 
group is planning?” The experienced 
counsellor knows that a suggestion, 
wisely given, is usually acted on with 
interest and the effort necessary for its 
implementation. 

The theory of motivation, already so^ 
much in use in the more progressive 
types of education, has a very real value 
in counsellor - camper relationships. 
There is probably no greater aid to 
happy and effective counsellor-camper 
relationships and the development of 
adequate self-discipline than the prac¬ 
tise of motivation. What is it? Simply 
suggestion on the part of the counsellor 
leading to interest and effort on the 
part of the camper. The counsellor who 
has not used this method may find it 
takes him some weeks before the moti¬ 
vation method becomes second nature 
to him but I have never known a coun¬ 
sellor who has seriously tried it who 
has not become an ardent follower of 
the technique. Children respond far 
quicker and more co-operatively to 
“Let us clear up all that driftwood on 
the beach! I saw one of the juniors 
stub his toe on a piece this morning” 


8 


Canadian Camping 


than to “Get busy, kids, and clean up 
that beach”. Motivation is not a diffi¬ 
cult technique to acquire, but it does 
require a great deal of practice, and 
infinite patience. 

If camping is, as generally accepted, 
an opportunity for children to live 
together democratically under wise and 
skilled supervision, then surely it is 
important that the element of competi¬ 
tion be delegated to its proper place. 
It has been stated that competition is 
the soul of business. This may be so, 
I do not know. But to place competi¬ 
tive procedures in the forefront of a 
camping programme seems to us to be 
vitiating the very heart of what camp¬ 
ing is attempting to accomplish. 

True, much in a practical sense may 
be accomplished by competition, but all 
that may be accomplished by competi¬ 
tion may be accomplished better and 
more permanently by other means. Why 
should we encourage the competitive 
spirit by offering prizes and cups and 
such like awards for activities when 
the campers may be guided to put equal 
zest into the enterprise for the pure fun 
and worthwhile results they gain from 
sharing in the event? Why is it thought 
necessary to offer extrinsic rewards for 
doing that which in itself offers a far 
more satisfactory and permanent re¬ 
ward in the sense of knowing that one 
has done his best and played the game? 
If the very nature of the activity does 
not provide the incentive for a camper 
to put his very best into it, it may well 
be asked whether the activity was worth 
participating in in the first place. The 
fun of a game, a task, an enterprise 
well done is what counts, not the re¬ 
ceiving of a reward. Is this not one of 
the places in camp life where campers 
may be helped to learn that funda¬ 
mental of effective and happy living 
that true enjoyment comes from doing 


one’s best irrespective of any extrinsic 
reward? 

By all means let us have standards 
towards which a camper may strive, 
standards that will cause the camper 
to reach out, but let the striving be 
directed toward*', bettering his own 
achievement rather than being directed 
against others. Surely the idea that in 
order to succeed ourselves we must 
cause others to fail is one of the many 
causes of poorly adjusted living in per¬ 
sonal, social and national life? This 
theory does not preclude inter-cabin or 
inter-tribe rivalry in which, in good 
sportsmanship, team plays against team, 
but let the emphasis be on the fun of 
the game rather than the outcome. 
Wisely presented, the motivation of 
playing the game for the sake of the 
game receives the camper’s enthusiastic 
support and aids in building one more 
of those character traits that, with 
others, develops a boy or a girl equipped 
to live constructively and happily in a 
democracy. 

Probably every camp has campers 
who might be referred to as problem 
children. Poor children! what chance 
have they? They are referred to in 
staff conferences, and sometimes out¬ 
side, as “problem” children. They are 
probably aware of that fact and hence 
do the natural thing by living up to 
their unfortunate title. If a title must 
be giveil let it be “opportunity” chil¬ 
dren, for so they are, an opportunity for 
themselves and an opportunity for their 
counsellors. They are the campers to¬ 
wards whom should be focussed all the 
skill of the staff. Not because these chil¬ 
dren may cause the staff to suffer 
from headaches but because these are 
children in dire need, children in the 
darkness seeking light in a world that 
has failed to understand them. And, in 
any case they are not “problem” chil¬ 
dren; they are children with problems. 


Toronto, Canada, Jane, 1952 


9 


This is not just a play on words. The 
changed terminology presupposes an 
entirely different approach. Here is a 
camper with a fiery temper, or greatly 
introverted, or one with an over-de¬ 
veloped imagination, or, perhaps, a 
careless vocabulary. He is a child with 
a problem. In many cases it may be 
the privilege of the counsellor to lead 
that camper to become aware of his 
problem as something that he himself 
must endeavour to understand and 
treat. The child with the fiery temper 
may be helped to realize for himself 
what uncontrolled temper does to him; 
it alienates his friends, it makes him do 


and say things he is afterwards very 
sorry for, it makes him self-conscious, 
and so on. Once the youngster has 
been sympathetically helped to recog¬ 
nize the ugliness of his temper, to look 
at it objectively, it is not difficult to 
suggest ways through which the prob¬ 
lem may be resolved. He is not a prob¬ 
lem child but he is very definitely a 
child with a problem. In the first case 
the camper is condemned already; in 
the second case he is a patient who 
needs the kindly advice and co-opera¬ 
tion of a skilled and understanding 
counsellor to supplement his own active 
endeavour and co-operation. 



Camp Tanamakoon 


10 


Canadian Camping 




MetnortEhle Experiences 

Leading Towards Spiritual Growth 

W. E. (Ted) Yard, Director of Camping , 

Toronto Central Y.M.C.A. 


Perhaps you had slipped away for a 
short paddle in the breathtaking still¬ 
ness of a summer evening. Dreamily 
you were carried by the efFortless 
rhythm of your paddle and the tinkling 
music at your bow until suddenly you 
held! . . . There before you on a rocky 
point a hushed throng of over a hun¬ 
dred children were sitting . . . listening, 
and watching. They were listening to 
music that you, too, could hear . . . 
though you had no idea where it came 
from; and suddenly you realized that 
they were watching the sunset, which, 
seen from their vantage point, provided 
a constantly changing panorama in the 
direction from which you had come. 

The music faded, and a spokesman 
whose calm clear voice seemed some¬ 
how to harmonize with everything 
about the place, suggested that those 
who so wished might share with all 
their friends their most vivid memory 
of the past two weeks at camp. There 
was no prompting; there had been no 
preparation. One after another the 
children rose to say “I remember . . .” 

. . . Or perhaps you came upon an¬ 
other spot on another such evening, 
and heard the spokesman at the 
Voyageur-Lumberman ceremony say¬ 
ing: 

“Let us pause for a moment, and 
viewing the truly beautiful shades of 
our Muskoka evening, let us this day 
drink deep of the beauty in lake and 
sky and stately pine. Let us cherish 
the deep friendships discovered at this 
spot; may they give deeper meaning to 
lives already dedicated to helpful, pur¬ 
poseful ends.” 

There was a pause, and then you 


saw the lumberman . . . clad in high 
boots, mackinaw shirt, and peak cap. 
With an axe on his capable shoulders 
he strode quietly along the shoreline 
to take his place against a giant pine 
. . . silhouetted in the sunset. 

“It is the Lumberman . . . crafts¬ 
man, pioneer, conservationist ... he 
is a living symbol of Canada’s great 
forest lands. He is, too, an integral 
part of the lore and tradition of this 
place we call our camp.” 

Another pause, and then a canoe 
skimmed into silhouette. The paddlcr 
in buckskin coat and tasselled toque, 
skillfully set his craft ashore, and took 
his place opposite the Lumberman. 

“It is the Voyageur . . . explorer, 
adventurer, master of his craft, he looks 
to new horizons . . . for he, too, is 
Canada. . . . and in this beautiful 

setting he travels with the greatest 
Sternsman of all time.” 

You saw how logical it all was . . . 
You saw the rest of the ceremony; and 
when the fire was lit and the songs 
began, you quietly slipped away. 

* * * 

. . . Perhaps, (it would have had to 
be by invitation), you were privileged 
to visit a solemn campfire induction 
ceremony. You heard the young induc¬ 
tees accept the Pine as a symbol of 
Strength and Fortitude. . . 

. . . “for, as the Pine roots cling to the 
crevices of solid Muskoka rock to 
hold firm in all weather, so will we 
hold firm to the principles of good 
living that we have learned in our 
homes, and at our camp.” 


1 l 


Toronto , Canada , ]une 3 1952 


You heard them accept the Pine as a 
symbol of Personal Growth 
. . . “for, as the Pine strives ever upward 
toward a clear, fresh sky, so will 
we strive in our personal lives to 
reach a higher level of faith, un¬ 
derstanding, and brotherly love.” 
You heard them accept the Pine as a 
symbol of Purity . . . 

. . . “for, as the stately Pine draws its 
life from the fresh Northern air, 
from the nourishing soil and from 
the clear waters of our spring-fed 
lake, so will we draw ours from 
the clean speech, clean sportsman¬ 
ship, and clear minds of those 
whom we respect and love.” 

You felt that this was a truly memor¬ 
able experience for them . . . and for 
you! 

* * *5f 

On still another occasion, you may 
have seen a lad step forward and drop 
a huge stone in the mirror-like lake. 
You followed the widening circles and 
were surprised to see a young boy rise: 

“Our widening friendship circles 
take us to Poland, my homeland.” 
... In a few well chosen words 
this boy made Poland and her 
people seem our neighbours. So it 
was with a boy from Holland, with 
others from Greece, Estonia, Scot¬ 
land . . . even Australia. 

You felt that there was brotherhood in 

this place . . . real brotherhood! 

* * * 

It may be that you were present 
when a camper presented a stone at 
the Sunday morning service. 

“We brought this stone from the 
Blackstone Lake, the destination on 
our canoe trip. The word we have 
painted on the stone is TEAM¬ 
WORK, because it seemed to fit 
the spirit of our trip.” 

Somehow you knew that it had been a 
good trip! 

* -K- * 

These glimpses you may have caught 
were intended to be in complete har¬ 
mony with a philosophy of working 


with children at camp, towards the 
greatest possible enrichment of the life 
of each one. 

Discussions of real life problems as 
related to camp situations, evening 
cabin “quiet times”, morning watch, ex¬ 
periences in antiphonal singing, short 
skits or plays “with a purpose”, . . . 
even Taps, the “Friendship Circle”, and 
“Abide With Me” ... all are re¬ 
lated to this grouping of events which 
is sometimes referred to as the “more 
formal” part of a total child-centered 
program. 

Inherent in any basic educational 
philosophy there will doubtless be an 
appreciation for the need of self-ex¬ 
pression, for decision making, for a 
greater appreciation of others; and all 
these needs must be observed if we plan 
to do a consequential work. Our staff 
must thoroughly understand the goals, 
and they must possess such skills and 
insights that they can effectively play 
the role of “guides” along this unpre¬ 
dictable trail. 

The so-called “formal” events need 
not deviate from the genuine con¬ 
sistency of approach so essential to the 
achievement of goals in any field. There 
should be a place for camper participa¬ 
tion in the very earliest stages of de¬ 
velopment, as well as in the final pre¬ 
sentation of the event. Skillful leader¬ 
ship will ensure that the laws of learn¬ 
ing are carefully observed so that a 
memorable experience may, in addition, 
be one which broadens understanding 
and deepens insights. 

Spiritual wealth has been described 
as that accumulated reserve which 
makes creative living possible. It is a 
reserve built of confidence . . . confi¬ 
dence in a Creator, confidence in a 
world of Nature, and confidence in 
one’s self. Inspiration may play a sig¬ 
nificant role in the development of this 
confidence, and it may well be that the 
camp staff has a definite responsibility 
to capitalize on its unparalleled oppor¬ 
tunity for creating these truly meaning¬ 
ful “Memorable Experiences”. 


12 


Canadian Camping 


When Life 

Is In Your Hands 

A new method of artificial respiration 
Lois Mattox Miller 


Artificial Respiration—pumping the 
breath of life into the lungs of a victim 
of drowning, suffocation, electric shock 
or gas poisoning—is one of the most 
vital of all first-aid procedures. Such 
emergencies are common; you may be 
confronted by one at any time. 

Mechanical devices do the job ex¬ 
pertly, ventilating the lungs with pure 
oxygen if necessary. But such equip¬ 
ment is seldom available in the des¬ 
perate three to six minutes in which the 
life can still be saved. Seconds count! 
Hence, lifesaving usually depends on 
some bystander who can perform arti¬ 
ficial respiration with his own bare 
hands. 

The Schafer “Prone Pressure” 
Method has been widely taught for 30 
odd years. The first-aider knelt over 
the prone victim, and forced air out of 
the lungs by downward pressure, count¬ 
ing on the recoil action of the released 
chest to inflate the lungs again. While 
it worked in many cases, this “push- 
and-release” method was far from 
perfect. 

To find the best possible technique, 
the U.S. Army Chemical Corps started 
or expanded research projects, two 
years ago, in four medical schools and 
hospitals. Since animals were not of 
much use in such trials, the doctors had 
to seek human subjects. They settled 
on three types: hospital patients who 
had stopped breathing under anesthesia, 



or from illness or injury; volunteers 
trained to hold their breath; and volun¬ 
teers whose respiration was paralyzed 
temporarily by shots of curare. 

This last group were real heroes. 
Under strict operating-room conditions, 
with trained anesthetists in charge and 
mechanical means standing by, 50 
volunteers whose motor nerves were 
paralyzed by the “poison arrow” drug 
hovered between life and death while 
the different methods were applied. 
Finally, normal muscular activity was 
restored with an oxygen mixture. Two 
and a half hours later they walked out 
of the operating room with nothing 
worse than a sore throat. 

In all trials the traditional Schafer 
Method ranked lowest. The push-pull 
methods tested delivered twice as much 
air into the lungs. 

But some of the superior techniques 
had big drawbacks. For example, one 
method required lifting the victim by 
the hips and then applying back pres¬ 
sure; the ability to do this depended too 
much on the strength of the first-aider 
in relation to the weight of the victim. 
The “hip-roll” technique also was diffi¬ 
cult to perform on hefty persons. 


Toronto, Canada, June, 1952 


13 








The ideal proved to be the back¬ 
pressure arm-lift method developed in 
Denmark 20 years ago by Colonel LIol- 
ger Nielsen and applied with great suc¬ 
cess in the Scandinavian countries. It 
is easy to teach and can be applied 
regardless of the relative sizes of the 
first-aider and victim. This method not 
only expels air from the lungs, as did 
the Schafer method, but then forces 
air into the lungs. It is accomplished 
in four simple steps ( see cuts). 

The back-pressure arm-lift method 
has now been approved by the Council 
on Physical Medicine and Rehabilita¬ 
tion of the American Medical Associa¬ 
tion and the U.S. Public Health Service. 
In the United States, it has been adopt¬ 
ed by the Bureau of Mines, the YMCA, 
the Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts, and 
other agencies. The Red Cross is teach¬ 
ing it to more than 100,000 first-aid 
and water-safety instructors. Local Red 
Cross chapters started public classes 
this year. 

To the four simple steps, the U.S. 
Department of Defense adds these prac¬ 
tical tips. Remember: time is vital— 
seconds count. Don’t try to move the 
victim to a more comfortable spot. 
Don’t stop to loosen clothing or apply 
stimulants. Start getting air into the 
lungs. The life is in your hands. 


A CANADIAN POSTSCRIPT 

Executives of the Red Cross Society 
and other Canadian organizations dedi¬ 
cated to saving human life have closely 
followed U.S. experiments in the Niel¬ 
sen Method and have started their own 
investigation with the help of a medical 
research team at the University of 
Toronto. 

Dr. Gordon Bates, General Director 
of the Health League of Canada, is a 
tireless crusader for more persistent ef¬ 
forts to revive those seemingly dead 
from drowning or electric shock. For 
more than 30 years, Dr. Bates has 
preached that a spark of life may exist 
in an apparently dead body and that 
hours of seemingly useless artificial res¬ 
piration sometimes have astounding 
results. 

He says he has authenticated three 
reports of people coming around after 
being under water for half an hour or 
more. He also cites the case of the 
Alberta child who was pulled from the 
water apparently drowned and who 
showed the first sign of life after five 
hours of treatment by the old Schafer 
Method—and of the Ontario lineman, 
apparently killed by a shock of 26,000 
volts, who came back to life after mem¬ 
bers of his crew had worked on him for 
eight hours. 

Reprinted with permission from the 
Author and Reader’s Digest. 



Pinecrest Camp , Y M.C.A. 


14 


Canadian Camping 



You Are the First'-Aider 


Place the victim prone (face down) with elbows bent, one hand on the other, 
head to one side, cheek resting on folded hands. Kneel on one knee — or both, 
if you achieve better balance — at the victim’s head. 



1. Place your hands on the flat of the 
victim’s back, below the armpits, with 
your thumbs barely touching, fingers 
spread outward and downward. 



3. Now rock backward, releasing pres¬ 
sure. 

Slide your hands outward to grasp 
the victim’s arms just above the elbows. 
Continue to rock backward. 



2. Rock forward slowly, keeping your 
elbows straight, until your arms are 
nearly vertical, thus exerting a steady 
downward pressure. 



4. As you rock backward, raise and 
pull the victim’s arms toward you 
until you feel tension in his shoulders. 
Start over with Step 1. Repeat the 
full cycle about 12 times a minute. 


Important: When the victim begins to breathe on his own , synchonize 
your efforts with his breathing until he breathes strongly. Then stop. 

—Readers Digest 


Toronto, Canada , June 3 1952 


15 





Food for Campers 

Elizabeth Chant Robertson, M.D., Ph.D., 

Nutrition Research Laboratory, Hospital for Sick Children and 
Department of Paediatrics, University of Toronto .* 


As camp life is planned to promote 
the physical and social health of camp¬ 
ers, the food that you provide is very 
important. In many camps, economy 
has to be constantly kept in mind, but 
fortunately some of our best foods arc 
also cheap. 

The food factor that is most often 
low in Canadian meals is Vitamin C. 
This is because most of our common 
foods contain relatively little of it and 
because it is so easily lost in cooking. 
Breakfast is a good time for your camp¬ 
ers to get most of their daily quota of 
this vitamin. We strongly recommend 
that they be given one of the following 
foods every day—one orange, half a 
grapefruit, half a standard measuring 
cup (4 ozs.) of canned orange juice or 
two-thirds of a measuring cup (5 ozs.) 
of canned citrus blend, grapefruit or 
vitaminized apple juice. The cost of 
each of these is no more than 2 to 3 
cents per serving. The grapefruit juice 
may need to be sweetened to be accept¬ 
able, and the labour involved in its 
preparation may rule out the use of 
fresh grapefruit. Frozen concentrated 
orange juice is another excellent alter¬ 
native and the recommended serving 
of it is from 3 to 3 5/2 ounces. Its use 
requires a deep freeze, which most 
camps do not possess. 

Tomato juice contains only about 
one-third as much G as orange juice 
and so a suitable serving would be at 


least 7 or 8 ounces. This is too much 
for babies and small children—for them 
orange juice or the citrus blended juice 
is better. When field-ripened tomatoes 
are available, two medium-sized to¬ 
matoes per day are a good substitute 
for the citrus products. Also a serving 
of cut-up cabbage salad can take the 
place very economically of half an 
orange or half the tomato juice. If you 
can afford to serve fresh strawberries or 
muskmelon—one serving of either pro¬ 
vides as much C as an orange. All of 
these high vitamin C foods add to your 
budget, but you can cut your costs 
safely in other directions, and unless 
your campers get them, their meals 
won’t be as rich in this vitamin as they 
should be for the best of health. The 
dried fruits and the other Canadian 
fruits are valuable for other reasons, 
but they are low in this particular 
factor. 

The precooked cereals are all 2 5/2 to 
6 times as dear as rolled oats and even 
the best of them (shredded wheat, 
shreddies, muffets, bran flakes, grape- 
nuts and grapenut flakes) have only 
about one-third as much thiamine (or 
vitamin ) as rolled oats. Most camp¬ 
ers are hungry and well prepared rolled 
oats should go well. For variety, Vita B 
or Brex and cracked or rolled wheat are 
good substitutes. The first two are a 
little dearer than rolled oats, but they 
are all excellent for thiamine. The 
white wheat cereals (often called cream 


16 


Canadian Camping 


of wheat) and cornmeal are much less 
nutritious. The usual ready - to - eat 
cereals made of rice and corn and the 
puffed cereals are not only dear, but 
practically lacking in this vitamin. As 
many Canadians eat less thiamine than 
is recommended for optimum health, it 
is best to serve these whole grain cereals 
daily. 

Whole wheat bread (preferably 
100 %), cracked wheat, rye and 
Canada-approved vitamin B white 
bread arc considered superior to the 
usual white bread in food value. The 
use of whole wheat flour, rolled oats 
and wheat germ in cooked foods is to 
be recommended, because of the B vita¬ 
mins and iron that they add. Unless ex¬ 
cessive amounts are used, the taste of 
the food is unaffected. 

You would be wise to use dried skim 
milk powder, which is very cheap, es¬ 
pecially when bought in large quanti¬ 
ties, for making cocoa, cream soups and 
milk puddings, of which there are many 
delicious varieties. In baking, the dried 
powder may be mixed with the flour 
and water added for moistening. Re¬ 
constituted whole milk powder, if re¬ 
frigerated for 6 hours or more, can 
hardly be distinguished from pasteur¬ 
ized whole milk and is usually cheaper. 
Hand or power-operated large quantity 
dried milk mixers are on the market. 


We believe that preschool children 
(2 to 5 years) should have at least one 
pint of milk per day, including what 
they get in cooked foods. For older 
children, a pint and a half is prefer¬ 
able. Provided they receive this much 
milk, you can quite safely make their 
servings of meat rather small. Com¬ 
bining the meat with vegetables, dress¬ 
ing, breadcrumbs, dumplings, pie top, 
etc., camouflages to a large extent the 
smallness of the portion. You would be 
wise to use eggs as generously as pos¬ 
sible as they provide a variety of valu¬ 
able nutritional factors. 

Fortunately canned vegetables are 
equal to fresh cooked ones in food value 
and their use much reduces your labour 
costs. It is best to serve an orange or 
green vegetable or tomatoes daily. Mar¬ 
garine is as good a food as butter and 
its use is therefore a legitimate economy. 
It’s a pity we cannot buy it already 
coloured. As the sweet foods such as 
cakes, sweet biscuits, honey, syrup, jam 
and marmalade add little to our diets, 
you would do well to curb your expen¬ 
ditures on them. Peanut butter and 
cheese, on the other hand, can make 
substantial contributions to your camp¬ 
ers’ meals. 

*—Editor’s note: For further infor¬ 
mation on planning meals, see “Nutri¬ 
tion for Today”, an easy-to-read book 
by Dr. Robertson. 



Toronto, Canada, June, 1952 


17 




Developing a Job An tug sis 

for the Camp Medical Staff 


Irwin Haladner, 

Director , Camp Wabi-Kon 

To carry out a program in accordance 
with the aims and objectives of a camp, 
a job analysis for each type of position 
is essential. Most camps develop job 
descriptions for some or most of the 
jobs in camp and then with the assist¬ 
ance of staff members, spend some con¬ 
siderable time each year in evaluating, 
reviewing and revising them. 

It would likely be helpful to most 
camps to have an exchange of reports 
on job descriptions for the various posi¬ 
tions in camp. 

The following job description is offer¬ 
ed in the hope that it might be helpful 
to those who are in the midst of develop¬ 
ing or revising a job analysis for the 
medical staff of a camp. 

Possibly next year Canadian Camp¬ 
ing could publish reports of job descrip¬ 
tions of other camp staff. 

POLICIES and RESPONSIBILITIES 
for the 

MEDICAL STAFF 

The following policies and areas of 
responsibilities for the medical staff 
were prepared and approved by former 
medical staff members. They should be 
reviewed, approved, changed or supple¬ 
mented by the present medical staff so 
that they will have a clear understand¬ 
ing of their duties and responsibilities. 
No changes to be made without the ap¬ 
proval of the director. 

The camp physician is responsible for 
the complete medical program of the 
camp. Medical staff members will act 
under his advice and guidance. 

The medical staff consists of one resi¬ 
dent physician, one registered nurse and 
one nurse’s assistant. 

18 


General Duties and Responsibilities 
of the Medical Staff 

1. A check made of all medical certifi¬ 
cates (campers and staff) before camp 
opens or immediately upon arrival in 
camp, for special instructions that may 
require immediate attention. Missing 
certificates to be reported to the 
director. 

2. A medical examination made of all 
campers and staff as soon after arrival 
as possible (within 48 hours). 

3. Careful records to be kept in a daily 
log book of all examinations and treat¬ 
ments regardless of how trivial they arc. 
Information to also be recorded on indi¬ 
vidual medical record cards. 

4. If any member of the staff, includ¬ 
ing maintenance, kitchen and laundry, 
have not been examined before the 
opening of camp, do so immediately. 

5. Daily brief written reports to the 
director of all admissions and progress 
reports of Medical Lodge patients. 

6 . Written reports to the director of 
all accidents requiring medical exami¬ 
nation. 

7. Always refer to individual medical 
cards before any treatment or drug re¬ 
quiring caution is given. 

8 . All information re patients is strictly 
confidential and not to be divulged to 
anyone except the camp director. 

9. The doctor and one nurse to be 
available twice daily for sick calls— 
immediately after breakfast — im¬ 
mediately after supper. 

Note —No camper to be turned away 
without consideration at other times. 

10. Nurse and nurse’s aid to be up in 
time to serve meals and render care to 
hospital patients before morning sick 
call begins. 

Canadian Camping 


a 


11. A medical staff member must be 
on duty at all times in the medical lodge 
when there are patients in the lodge. 
If there are no patients, one staff mem¬ 
ber must be on call, the lodge locked 
and a note of whereabouts posted on 
the door. 

12. The doctor is to leave a note of 
his whereabouts at all times at the 
medical lodge even during his time off. 
He should clear with the director if 
leaving the camp area. 

13. The doctor to arrange for time off 
for the medical staff. This consists of 
one day a week and time off during the 
day when possible. The day off should 
begin after morning sick call. Clear¬ 
ance with the doctor if leaving the 
camp area. 

14. No more than one staff member off 
for the day at one time. 

15. All medical reports to the director 
must be approved by the doctor. 

16. All notifications and reports to 
parents of injuries and illness are to be 
approved by the director. Correspon¬ 
dence from parents to be brought to the 
attention of the director and placed 
with the office for filing. 

Prevention 

1. The doctor to arrange through the 
program director to meet with the coun- 
seloring staff to discuss their role in the 
health and safety program of the camp. 

2. Weekly samples of water are to be 
sent for analysis. 

3. Regular inspection of sanitation of: 
the kitchen, garbage disposal, plumbing 
facilities, and a report submitted to the 
business manager. 

4. The doctor is to confer with the 
director concerning the adjustment of 
any conflicts that arise between camp 
activities and health and safety. 

5. Periodic inspection of living quar¬ 
ters to be made and a report of obser¬ 
vations to be given to the director. 

6 . Medical staff to report to counselors 
any situation requiring counselor co¬ 
operation, i.e., campers’ schedules for 
treatments, special orders, such as diet, 
rest, limitation of activities, etc. 


7. Medical lodge to supply first aid kit, 
with instructions to any group leaving 
the camp area. All injuries treated must 
be reported. 

8 . Medical supplies of any kind not 
to be in possession of or used by indi¬ 
viduals without the approval of the 
doctor. 

9. Determine with program director 
when swimming should not take place 
because of weather. 

Medical Lodge Routine 
and Regulations 

1. The cleanliness of the infirmary is 
the responsibility of the medical staff. 

2. Medical lodge equipment is not to 
be loaned out without doctor’s approval. 

3. Arrangements for meals for patients 
to be made with the dietitian. 

4. Medical supplies to be received, 
checked off and inventoried at opening 
of the season and at regular intervals. 
A complete inventory to be given to 
business manager at end of the season. 

5. A close account to be kept of the 
amount of medical supplies and equip¬ 
ment on hand, remembering that ap¬ 
proximately one week is required to 
replace stock. A minimum of one 
week’s supply margin of safety must be 
maintained at all times. 

6 . Visiting: Campers may not visit at 
any time either in the medical lodge or 
on the outside at the windows. Coun¬ 
sellors are encouraged to visit their own 
sick campers once or twice daily briefly, 
where permissible. Sick counsellors are 
subject to the same regulations as camp¬ 
ers and may be visited by their section 
heads only. The infirmary will observe 
rest hours, as does the rest of camp. 
Bedtime for patients—latest to begin at 
9:00, infirmary asleep by 9:30—lights 
out. Extreme quiet must be observed at 
all times in and around the infirmary. 

7. Compulsory letter writing day. 
Nurses to see that patients write their 
letters home (Tuesdays and Thurs¬ 
days), letters are to be turned over to 
the office for checking. 

In the absence of the director the busi¬ 
ness manager acts for him. 


Toronto, Canada , ]une } 1952 


19 


Child Art Goes to Camp 

Erma L. Sutcliffe 


Let us think about the child, any age, 
going to camp after a hard ten months 
of routines, rushes and musts. Camp 
should be for him a place to relax, 
to find inspiration through recreation, 
and what is more important, to try to 
find himself. He should learn that life 
is a creative venture rather than an 
academic storehouse. As leaders, we 
must decide to put the child’s needs 
and desires first. It is his camp, his for 
a rich experience. The salary of the 
leader and the outworn doctrines of 
the camp must be put in their correct 
place if we are to be honest with the 
child. 

Are we going to cater to the parent, 
or are we going to subtly educate the 
parent? Why send a child home with a 
poorly made billfold or bracelet, when 
he is seeking answers to the life around 
him? Why should any child make a 
billfold when he can buy one gayer and 
with more gadgets at the nearest five 
and ten store? Why should any girl 
be taught bad taste in the form of shell 
earrings when it is outside the child’s 
own real primitive expression? Shells 
suggest life under water, moving things, 
colour and light, not earrings. 

Are we going to build totem poles 
when we are neither British Columbians 
nor Indians? Is the art leader going 
to have a wonderful time expressing 
himself through some super-technical 
show of skill in stage sets and costumes, 
or are the campers going to make their 
own stage sets? Are you going to do 
the “Pirates” again or will you be hon¬ 


est and let the campers, young and 
older, write, plan and direct the plays? 

The Art Counsellor’s job is not an 
easy one. Problems arise largely from 
the workshop. He should discuss his 
role before camp begins. He should 
know the general camp plans, so that 
art requirements may become part of 
his planned program, and his program 
must be planned. Look at the swim¬ 
ming counsellor; he works each day 
with the same groups of campers and 
when they leave camp they have 
achieved something. The art counsellor 
should be as well organized and have 
as fair a chance. 

In many camps there is no child art, 
there is only “arts and crafts”; in other 
words, skills. Is the child a craftsman? 
I do not think so. No one is a crafts¬ 
man excepting an unusual teenager and 
some adults. Crafts demand precision 
and rules, and frequently arc straight 
technical jobs requiring only a recipe. 
Some schools of thought believe in 
teaching the skills first and the creative 
effort later. I have seldom seen this 
successful, the cart cannot pull the horse 
if the horse is to be happy and useful. 
The average child to whom you arc 
catering must first learn to gain confi¬ 
dence in himself through using his own 
ideas and experiences with art materials 
as the medium. Later he will want the 
skill when he is ready for it. I have 
known many frustrated children, who 
were taught by a teacher to put the 
skill first, before the interest was fos¬ 
tered and developed. You will meet 


20 


Canadian Camping 


some of these children in your camp. 
They will say, “I can’t”, “show me 
how”, or ’’you do it for me”, so you, as 
an art leader, have a handicap to begin 
with. Most of your campers have had 
a leader somewhere, who has superim¬ 
posed his own ideas, not too good in 
taste, upon the child in the form of 
patterns. He is the leader who caters 
to adult praise, or who is frightened of 
his own ability to work with children. 
The child, at any age, is a strange crea¬ 
ture. He has a way of sensing when his 
teacher does not know, or is afraid. He 
feels, on the other hand, an under¬ 
standing with the leader who is not 
averse to admitting defeat here and 
there, or to work out new ideas with 
the child. Help the camper to become 
a happy, adjusted person, and skip the 
worry about super results. 

Why shouldn’t you utilize the camp¬ 
er’s love of nature for their creative 
work? Think of a tree and what hap¬ 
pens to it, how it grows, what colour 
and feel and shape it has. Who lives 
in it ? The birds and squirrels and the 
small, small things that we can scarcely 
see. How do they build their homes in 
these graceful trees and why? Then 
there is the sky; all day long the colour 
and the cloud shapes change, in sun or 
in rain. And there is the night sky, 
with star formations and their won¬ 
drous stories. Look at the ground, watch 
your step; such tiny creatures; get right 


down close to see what they are doing. 
And you can build with sand and 
stones and wood. Should we rip bark 
from the trees, counsellors? Carve in 
wood, and build with wood; there is 
plenty without destroying trees. And 
what about other camp activities for 
subject matter? Make banners for 
sports parades, fantastic figures to be 
carried high, decorated boat floats, 
murals for dining and recreation rooms 
showing all the feats of swimming and 
archery and the wonders of nature lore. 
What do you know about your camp 
site, its topography, its geographic set¬ 
up in Ontario, and its historic back¬ 
ground? Every acre of land in Ontario 
has a history. Find out before you go; 
it will make interesting subject matter. 

Cooperate with other counsellors on 
the use of films and picture materials. 
Work with the swim and nature leaders. 
It helps all of you to help the campers. 
Let the child experiment. He needs the 
tool, the medium and the idea. You 
help him to think, but you do not think 
for him. Remember, the art in itself 
is not important, but the child is. Ex¬ 
periment with the children to bring 
all within the charmed circle. Give 
each camper a rich and lively experi¬ 
ence and the result will be deep satis¬ 
faction to both camper and leader. 
Send each camper home finally, not 
with a bracelet or tie-rack in his hand, 
but with a new rich approach to living, 
inside him. 



Toronto, Canada , June , 1952 


21 


A Little Nonsense 


Now and Them 


Joyce Bertram, 

Camp Ouareau 

You scan the ads for bargains in 
bathing-suits, mattresses, slacks and kit¬ 
chen crockery. You spend hours poring 
over books in the library on every topic 
from teaching children to swim to emo¬ 
tional adjustment in the adolescent. 
You wonder frantically if the weather 
this summer could possibly be as bad as 
it was last year, and then decide darkly 
that it will probably be much, much 
worse. (A sign of age, this, like hills get¬ 
ting steeper, children noisier and staff 
younger.) You panic slightly at the 
thought of whether the dock lived 
through the winter’s onslaught and 
whether the cook can be prevailed upon 
to use the concentrated food you were 
talked into buying. 

On an old envelope you find such 
illuminating notations as “send folder 
to D. Long, 117 Brammall, and “phone 
Mac re milk-sub. Any good?” On the 
back in cramped writing you find 
“Marge W. wants to be a senior. What 
to do?” and “Can we take Bobbie?” 
You are familiar with these notes to 
yourself, no doubt, and the little black 
book without which no director would 
contemplate running a camp is begin¬ 
ning to fill up with similar reminders. 

In other words . . . you are getting 
ready for camp. 

And among your various old enve¬ 
lopes and order forms you are sure to 
have a list of about 12 things which you 
want campers to get from your camp 
this summer. Most lists start off with 
imposing sounding phrases like “oppor¬ 
tunity for democratic living” and then 


run the gamut of “emotional adjust¬ 
ment” and “appreciation of Nature” 
right down to learning to swim. But 
have we forgotten, in our passion for 
taking improving course on “Adminis¬ 
trative Procedures” and “Staff Train¬ 
ing” and “Programme Planning” that 
a camper comes to camp primarily for 
FUN? And if we think that FUN is 
a concomitant outcome of all the 
months of preparation and reading and 
staff training, etc., etc., we are the 
more deceived. For fun, like Christ¬ 
mas, is a state of mind, which can only 
be engendered by a staff and a director 
who do not take its presence for grant¬ 
ed, and who are young enough in heart 
to recognize what an airy and nebulous 
thing Fun can be, and how soon it can 
be lost in an atmosphere of busy 
efficiency. 

There are several kinds of fun at 
camp. There is the traditional kind 
which recurs each year and the joining 
in which gives a camper a feeling of 
security and belongingness. There are 
also the expected often repeated rou¬ 
tines of camp like the nightly scramble 
for the first in line at “milk and bis¬ 
cuits” and the weekly soapwash. There 
are long thought out, well-planned pro¬ 
grammes which require a great deal of 
team work and co-operation and plain 
hard work. And do not mistake the 
presence of hard work for the absence 
of fun. More often than we imagine, 
the two go hand in hand. 

And then there is the unexpected, 
unplanned fun which suddenly presents 
itself and which is apt to slip by un- 


22 


Canadian Camping 


noticed when a schedule is too tight 
and too inflexible. A “doughnut bell” 
or a “watermelon bell” is always “good 
fun”. Whenever this bell rings, campers 
drop everything to run after it. From 
tennis courts and docks and riding rings 
and craft shops they come in hordes in 
the twinkling of an eye. It is fun to 
stand and eat the doughnut or the 
watermelon. It is almost as much fun 
to imagine we are eating the doughnut 
or the watermelon and to imagine that 
we can hear the bell. Any time of the 
day, it is easy to imagine that NOW, 
RIGHT NOW, the bell might ring. 

And it is fun suddenly to be told that 
instead of going to bed immediately, 
“quickly, before the second whistle 
blows”, that we are going to sit out on 
the swings and the teeter-totters admir¬ 
ing the northern lights and counting 
the number of shooting stars. And what 
Junior can forget the “fun” of being 
wakened up at night, stuffed into slacks 
and rubber boots, and taken to an en¬ 
chanted spot where fireflies dance in 
the moonlight. Of course, if there is 
a standing rule that all campers be in 
bed by 8.30 or 9 p.m., it makes it a 
litttle more difficult. 

When the fifth day of a three-day 
rain starts dripping its way in . . . 

then is the time for a little spontaneous 
fun. We had a party for the Weather 
Man last year on the twelfth consecu¬ 
tive day of rain. The Weather Man, 
dressed in raincoat and dripping sou’¬ 
wester, flanked by his two henchmen, 
Thunder and Lightning, staged an as¬ 
tonishing show in the dining room at 
dinner time. The campers were then 
told in uncompromising tones by the 
sullen Weather Man that unless they 
amused him, he would send rain until 
the end of Camp! As each cabin vied 
with their stunt that night for the 
honour of amusing the Weather Man, 
a huge barometer showing fine, wet, 
hail, snow, etc., was shifted back and 
forth. At the end of the evening the 


Weather Man inadvisedly left it at fine. 
A great cheer went up from a hundred 
lungs. The following day . . . you 

guessed it ... it rained! But we had 
fun! 

Many camps have imaginary charac¬ 
ters which add immeasurably to the 
spontaneity. The author’s youthful days 
at camp were much enhanced by the 
presence of “the camper’s best friend, 
Maude”, who had more fun than every¬ 
one else at camp put together. At an¬ 
other camp, “Camp Spirit” is no nebu¬ 
lous thing, always on the side of author¬ 
ity, but is a person, with a distinct per¬ 
sonality of his own. Though the em¬ 
bodiment of all the virtues we should 
like the campers to possess, he is still 
so impudent and cocky and so irrepres¬ 
sibly cheerful that no camper or coun¬ 
sellor could do without him for a single 
day. 

Let me quote Abbie Graham in her 
book, “Working at Play”. Miss Graham 
says “Campers are like any other people 
on vacation. They want certain things 
that they know they want, and un¬ 
known things in addition 33 . That, then, 
is as much our job as any. We try to 
give the campers what they want, what 
their parents want and what we feel 
they should want. But besides that, we 
must give them unknown things, in 
addition. And that unknown thing is 
very often FUN—plain, spontaneous, 
unplanned FUN. 



Toronto, Canada, June, 1952 


23 





SUMMERTIME 

FAVOURITES! 

Cottage! . . . Camp! . . . Motoring! . . . 
Hiking! . . . Loafing . . . anywhere! 

anytime! . . . Lewiscraft Moccasin Kits 
are alltime favourites for fun and Summer 
footwear comfort! 

SPORTSMAN MOCCASIN KIT 

You make them yourself! 

Offers two colour choice, natural or pearl 
chrome. 

Men's Style— 

Sizes 7 to 11- - - - pair 2.85 

Women's Style— 

Sizes 3 to 8 - - - pair 2.85 

Children's Style— 

Sizes 10 to 2 - - - - pair 2.55 

Women's and Men's style in shades 

of red, green or black, pair.2.98 

Children's style in same shades as 

above. Pair . 2.80 

DURABULL MOCCASIN KIT 

Featuring a rugged, full length, water- 

F roofed leather sole and heel. Natural or 
earl Chrome. 

Men's and Women's Style— 

Sizes 7 to 11, 3 to 8 - - pair 3.85 

Children's Style— 

Sizes 10 to 2 - - - - pair 3.55 

Men's and Women's style in shades 

of red, green, blue or black, pair.3.98 

Children's style, in same colours as 
above, pair.3.80 



8 BATHJR3T ST. - TORONTO, ONT. 


C.C.A. Newsletter 

Dear Camping Friends: 

Your new executive has held two 
meetings, one in March and one in 
April, and their final Spring meeting 
will be held within the next two weeks. 

During this period we have been con¬ 
cerned with the details of moving our 
office to 52 Avenue Road in Toronto, 
of working out a realistic budget for 
the current year, and with completing 
an arrangement for co-operative office 
space and executive secretary services 
with the Ontario Association. It is 
gratifying to note that a considerable 
saving will be effected this year through 
this cooperative arrangement, and we 
are confident that your correspondence 
will be acknowledged promptly by Miss 
Joyce Bertram, our Executive Secretary, 
and forwarded to the chairman of 
whichever standing committee can be 
most helpful to you. 

We hope that you will find this 
issue of our magazine helpful and stimu¬ 
lating, and we not only invite you, but 
we urfre you as a member of the Cana¬ 
dian Camping Association to make your 
thoughts and experiences available to 
our editor, so that they may be shared 
by other members from B.C. to P.E.I. 

We have welcomed notices about 
conferences and a training clinic in the 
Mari times, Manitoba, and B.C. respec¬ 
tively, and sincerely regret that we have 
not been able to see a way to send dele¬ 
gates or resource people from the 
National Office. 

As was mentioned to you in our last 
news letter, we are concentrating this 
year on establishing a firm base through 
encouraging active standing committees, 
reducing national fees to leave a larger 
portion for Provincial Association work 
(this has already been effected), and 
through a concerted effort to contact 
more of our widespread constituency 
through direct personal correspondence 
from our office. 


24 


Canadian Camping 











We are a young National Association, 
and we face numerous problems that 
must inevitably confront any coordinat¬ 
ing body in a country of such enormous 
distances and such uneven population 
distriubtion as this Canada of ours. 
However, if we persevere, and if we 
build carefully, we will have a truly 
National Camping Association — made 
up of member Associations in every pro¬ 
vince across the Dominion. But we 
have modest means, and the process 
will not be rapid. 

May I again urge those of you who 
hold memberships in provinces where 
there is no Camping Association to 
write us and discuss your problems, 
and may I ask the Executive Commit¬ 
tees of those Provincial Associations 
which are organized, to set one open 
meeting aside this coming fall for a full 
discussion of the National Association 
—its function and its future. If you will 
give us at least 30 days’ notice of the 


meeting, we will see that you are pro¬ 
vided with all the information . . . 

constitutions, frames of reference, bud¬ 
gets, etc. 

Have a wonderful summer, won’t you 
. . . and be sure to write up some of 
the highlights! 

Sincerely yours, 

W. E. (Ted) Yard, 

President. 


To remind you: C.C.A. buttons are 
still available from the C.C.A. office, 
52 Avenue Road, Toronto. Orders 
would have to be placed as soon as 
possible. 




ELASTOPLAST BANDAGES 
FOR ALL MINOR INJURIES 


TorontoCanada, June, 1952 


25 
































Notes 

from the Provinces 

BRITISH COLUMBIA 

From B.C. (labelled Boom Country 
in a recent feature article) comes a 
report of a Camp Counsellors 5 Institute, 
held in Vancouver on May 16th and 
17th. The Institute was planned to 
help provide the camps with better 
equipped leaders and was of utmost 
interest to all people in the camping 
field. 

Opening Friday evening with a din¬ 
ner meeting at which the subject of the 
address was, “Why Train Counsellors? 55 , 
followed by several displays, the Insti¬ 
tute carried on throughout Saturday 
with a most varied and interesting pro¬ 
gram. 

ONTARIO 

The Ontario Camping Association ar¬ 
ranged a Counselor Training Course 
for five Wednesday evenings, April 23rd 
to May 21st, with the last three even¬ 
ings arranged specially for experienced 
staff members, recommended by camp 
directors. 

Some of the topics discussed at the 
special sessions were: Democratic Pro¬ 
gram Planning, Special Program Fea¬ 
tures, The Successful Out-Trip, Oppor¬ 
tunities for Learning at Camp, The 
Cabin Group and Handling Campers 5 
Personal Problems. 

Counsellor Training 
Camps 

C. R. Blackstock, Camp Mazinau 

Counsellor leadership for the non¬ 
profit camp continues to be a very real 
problem. Trained and experienced 
leaders with a sense of mission are never 
in sufficient supply for these camps. 
This means that directors of the non¬ 
profit camps are not able to do as good 
a job as they want to. 


The Department of Education makes 
provision for some leadership training 
at the two camps, Belwood for girls, 
Bark Lake for boys. The Department 
asks that non-profit camps sponsor and 
recommend suitable girls and boys to 
receive this training. 

We suggest that private camps are in 
a better position to urge the more able 
of their older campers to take this 
leadership training course. Private 
campers can afford this time. Private 
campers can be imbued with the service 
ideal. Many private campers schould 
be willing to make a contribution to 
their fellows by serving as counsellors in 
the non-profit camps. 

Church groups have among their 
members girls and boys who can afford 
to be trained for leadership positions. 
Many of these young people do not 
“need to make money” to go to school. 
Demands should be made of them as of 
the private camper group to share their 
advantages and experience with others. 
Youths need this kind of challenge. 

Many of the present long-time pri¬ 
vate camp directors know the effects of 
a burning enthusiasm, first planted by 
a devoted adult leader, to serve others. 
The Department of Education is anxi¬ 
ous to receive your nominations. It 
would like to have the same kind of 
cooperation with camps as it has with 
the high schools in choosing the boys 
and girls for the physical education 
leadership courses offered at the Ath¬ 
letic Camp on Lake Couchiching. 

Let us all make concerted effort to 
sponsor at least one boy or one girl for 
the camp leadership training course. 
Leadership is the first essential for our 
efforts to improve and extend camping 
to more and more Canadians. The De¬ 
partment of Education will supply 
forms and information. Write Director, 
Physical Education Branch, 206 Huron 
St., Toronto. 


26 


Canadian Camping 


For Your Resort 
or Camp . . . 

• Prompt and 
Reliable Service 

• A Wide Range of 
Products 

Fresh, smoked and ready-to-serve meats; Canned Meats, Fish, 
Fruits and Vegetables; Domestic Shortening; Tenderflake Lard; 
Margene; Butter, Eggs / Cheese; Poultry; Peanut Butter, Pickles, 
Olives; Jams and Marmalade; Soap Flakes and Toilet Soap. 
Prompt attention given all orders. 

We shall be glad to discuss how we can serve you best. 
Address: Sales Department, Toronto or Peterborough. 

CANADA PACKERS LIMITED 



An Important Message to .. . THE CAMP DIRECTOR 

Protect the health of your campers by using 'DETTOL' in your camp 
hospital or First Aid Kit. 

I 

'DETTOL' the modern antiseptic for . . . 

© Cuts and Abrasions 
• Athlete's Foot 
• Insect Stings 

and . . . 

GENERAL DISINFECTION AROUND THE CAMP 

RECKITT & COLMAN (Canada) LTD., 

1000 Amherst Street, 

MONTREAL, Quebec. 

Please send me FREE Sample of ‘DETTOL’ and folder 
“Camping with Dettol’’. 

NAME _____ 

ADDRESS ........ 

CAMP ....... 



Toronto, Canada, June, 1952 


27 






















GUMPERT HAS EVERYTHING 



FOR THE FINEST IN FOODS 


GUMPERT 


HAS EVERYTHING 


S. GUMPERT CO. OF CANADA, LTD. 

31 BROCK AVE., TORONTO ME. 5758 


A complete guide to the 
pleasures of living 
with nature . . . 

CAMPING 

FOR ALL IT’S WORTH 

by William E. Swanson 

is a new book in the popular 

OLYMPIC EDITION 

154 pages. 5 Vi x 8 V 4 

Here are valuable hints on hiking, 
travel, shelters, food, tents, cabins, 
building details, heating, light, cooking 
stoves, fishing, sanitation, protection 
of camp, boats, medical and personal 
care. Handy maps and illustrations by 
the author of Log Cabins. 

$3.49 from your bookseller 

MACMILLAN 


Kawagawna Cine-Series 
on Counsellor Training 

The following three moving pictures 
were produced during the summer 
camping season of 1951. They are to 
be used in a Counsellor Training pro¬ 
gramme, as well as Camper instruction. 
It is hoped other activities will be pho¬ 
tographed and added to this series, with 
the aim of having a complete film 
library on the major camp activities. 
Each film is devoted to one specific 
topic. They are not presented as final 
authorities, but rather as a basis of 
discussion; procedures and techniques 
are indicated, leaving room for discus¬ 
sion by Counsellors and Campers. The 
films will stimulate discussion so that 
learning will be made much easier and 
quicker. 

A-STENCILLING WE SHALL GO 
This film shows briefly camp activities 
and then goes into the details of stencil 
painting on cloth. Materials, prepara¬ 
tion and handling of this craft project 
is shown in detail by a group of girls 
in a camp setting. 

16 mm 10 minutes colour and sound 

WITH PADDLE AND PACK 
A group of boys request a canoe trip. 
The planning, organization and pre¬ 
paration at camp is shown. This in¬ 
cludes the swimming and canoeing 
tests each camper requires before going 
on a canoe trip, as well as classes in 
camp craft and water safety. Various 
aspects of the canoe trip are shown as 
they pack, leave camp, cross a por¬ 
tage, establish overnight sleeping ar¬ 
rangements and trail cooking. On re¬ 
turn to camp the trip equipment and 
final report are indicated. 

16 mm 12 minutes colour and sound 

A CAMPER AND HIS CANOE 
Paddling a canoe can be introduced to 
campers of all ages. This film shows 
how children of six years of age (non¬ 
swimmers) may be introduced to paddl¬ 
ing. Requirements for allowing a 


28 


Canadian Camping 









camper to go in a canoe alone are indi¬ 
cated. Basic strokes in paddling are 
shown both by the instructor and with 
animated diagrams. Various aspects of 
water safety in connection with canoe¬ 
ing; and canoeing as a group activity 
is shown in formation paddling. 

16 mm 12 minutes colour ad sound 

A Camper and His Canoe has just 
been honoured with the First Award for 
high standard of achievement in the 
Amateur Class of the Canadian Film 
Awards. It is also the winner of the 
trophy presented by the Association of 
Motion Picture Producers and Labora¬ 
tories of Canada as the best amateur 
movie produced in 1951. 

The above three films were produced 
with the help of the campers and Coun¬ 
sellors of Camp Kawagama, Dorset, 
Ontario. Producer David Palter, Direc¬ 
tor Louis A. A. Shore. 


YOUR SUPPLY HOUSE 
FOR THE FOLLOWING 

© Chairs 
© Tables 
© Mattresses 
9 Springs 
• Blankets 
© Sheets 
• Crockery 
• Glassware 
• Silverware 
• Kitchenware 

CASSIDY’S LIMITED 

HOTEL DIVISION 

20-22 Front Street West Toronto 
Phone EM. 6-5801 


CUT 


BREAKAGE 

COSTS 




More and more dining establishments 
are switching to Styleware every day! For not only do the wide range 
of pastel colours enhance table settings, but the durability of Melmac 
reduces breakage as much as 90%. What's more, its lightness and 
ease of stacking substantially reduce handling and other labour costs. 
It will pay you to investigate Styleware—molded of Melmac, and 
you'll join with profit-minded dining establishment operators and 
switch to Styleware. 

Featured by the leading jobbers from coast to coast. 




Toronto, Canada, June, 1952 


29 









itook Reviews 

Games for Girl Scouts: Published by 
Girl Scouts of the United States of 
America; 155 East 44th Street, New 
York 17, N.Y.; price, 35c. 

Though written primarily for Girl 
Scouts and their leaders, this book is 
crammed with suggestions on how to 
select and present games that are suit¬ 
able for boys and girls of various ages. 
The games have been described in an 
easily-understood form, with sugges¬ 
tions added for variations. 

They arc classified as games for the 
new girl scout, indoors, music, games 
from other countr’es, out-of-doors, 
woodland games, water games, relays, 
etc. It is a most useful, inexpensive 
book for a camp library. 


Cooking Out-of-Doors: Published by 
the Girl Scouts of the United States of 
America; 1946; 155 East 44th Street, 
New York 17, N.Y.; price, $1.00. 

This book will be useful for all 
campers whether they are planning a 
ten-day canoe trip or a family picnic. 
The opening chapter contains invalu¬ 
able information compiled by skilled 
campers who can cook as easily on an 
outdoor fire as in a modern kitchen— 
hints for outdoor cooking, fire building, 
the care of food. 

There is a description of outdoor 
kitchens and gadgets, accompanied by 
very clear sketches. The concluding 
chapter contains sixty-one pages of 
recipes so attractive that you will reach 
for your axe, your knife and your ban¬ 
dana, and head for the country. This 
is an excellent book for campers. 

Flora Morrison, 
Windy Pine Point . 



the 

famous 

ACKROYD 

DINGHIES 

are built exclusively 
by the builders of 

TAYLOR 

CRAFT 

Canada's Leading 
CRUISERS 
and 

SAILBOATS 

€* 


J. J. TAYLOR & SONS LIMITED 


on the Western Channel - TORONTO 


30 


Canadian Camping 






The Fire Patrol, by Dickson Reynolds; 
published by Thomas Nelson and Sons, 
Ltd., Toronto; pp. 192; price, $1.69. 

The author of this book, Dickson 
Reynolds, was born near Regina and 
spent his childhood on an Indian Reser¬ 
vation in Saskatchewan, but it was from 
later experiences in British Columbia 
that he gained his first-hand knowledge 
for “Fire Patrol”. For this book the 
author visited a Junior Forest Warden 
Camp and learned a great deal which 
is incorporated into these adventures of 
a group of boys in a B.C. Forestry 
Camp. It is a story which will appeal 
to boys, but which will also give any¬ 
one an appreciation of the resources 
and possibilities of our nation’s forests 
and the problems of conservation. 
“Keep our Forests Green”, is the key 
note. 

Wake of the West Wind — Ryerson 
Press, $3.00. 

This story is aptly titled and appro¬ 
priately dedicated “To the Memory of 
Tom Thomson”—artist, woodsman and 
guide. Young people will enjoy the 
adventures of Bob MacPherson, the 
young teen-age son of a family who 
runs a tourist establishment near Hunts¬ 
ville, Ontario. Bob. a real woodsman, 
is very keen on sketching and to his 
great delight he gets the job of guiding 
for Colin Corwood, an artist from New 
York. Because of this chance encounter, 
Bob eventually overcomes the opposi¬ 
tion of his father to become an artist 
himself. 

The author, George E. Tait, also 
illustrates this very enjoyable book. Al¬ 
though the story is fictitious, much of 
of Tom Thomson’s own history is in¬ 
corporated in the tale. The author ex¬ 
presses the spirit of the same north 
country that Tom Thomson depicted 
on his canvases. 

Adele Ebbs, 
Camp Wapomeo. 



IVe ate 

HEADQUARTERS 

for 

Tents Flags 

Dunnage Bags 
Pack Sacks 
Sleeping Bags 
Tarpaulins 

Everything in Canvas 

Complete Stock Marine 
Hardware 

JOHN LECEIE 

LIMITED TORONTO 

Halifax - Quebec - Montreal 
Winnipeg 

Vancouver—Western Leckie 
Limited 


Toronto, Canada 3 June, 1952 


31 















INEXPENSIVE 

CAMP TELEPHONES 



TMC MAGNETO SYSTEMS 

Economical - Easy-to-install wall mounting 
(In buildings, cabins, out posts, etc.) - Dry 
cell battery operated, lasts all season (No 
hydro required) - Will work over any area. 

Write or phone 

Telephone Manufacturing 
COMPANY LIMITED 
Saxony Building - 26 Duncan Street 

TORONTO - EM. 6-5314 


DICTIONARY OF DISCARDS 

Frank M. Rich 

This A-to-Z checklist gives you more than 
7,000 ideas for making useful things out of 
scrap materials found around home, garage, 
barn, school or camp. 

Handicrafters, recreation leaders, teachers, 
home owners, campers, farmers, and just plain 
gadgetees welcome the unusual arrangement of 
this manual. 

$3.75 

THE BOOK OF GAMES 

G. S. Ripley 

A comprehensive, up-to-date treasury of 
group games for boys and girls . . . assembled- 
by an authority with more than 30 years’ 
experience in the field. Playground, camp, 
classroom, youth group and community center 
facilities and age-groupings are kept in focus 
in this well-rounded collection applicable for 
youth from the age of 7 through the teens. 

$3.85 

Order from your local bookstore, or 

G. R. WELCH COMPANY 

LIMITED 

1149 King St. West - Toronto 1, Ont. 


Canadian Camps 
Support Camp in India 

A Canadian, long in boys’ work and 
camping in Canada now (as for more 
than ten years) gives his full time, free, 
the year-round, to promoting, operating 
and extending a non-profit camp in 
India. 

This remarkable, finely inspired and 
very competent person is Wallace For- 
gie, well-known right across Canada in 
Y.M.C.A. and other boys’ work fields. 
Even his many-years-apart trips be¬ 
tween India and Canada in the interest 
of the camp are made at his own 
expense. 

The project was established, under 
Mr. Forgie’s inspiration, by a group of 
his friends. It has been maintained, 
extended and operated by the contribu¬ 
tions made by him, his friends, and 
their friends in both Canada and the 
United States. 

Canadian Camps became interested 
in this unique internat’onal and inter¬ 
racial project. A number give all or a 
part of one Sunday’s Camp-service of¬ 
fering to the undertaking. It is hoped 
that many more will do so. They hear 
from Mr. Forgie regularly as to the 
services their gifts make possible. 

The President of the Canadian and 
Ontario Camping Associations, the Edi¬ 
tor of this magazine, and other members 
of both organizations’ executive com¬ 
mittees are members of the camp’s 
Canadian Advisory Committee. Fur¬ 
ther information may be secured 
through C. T. Sharpe, 2A Lindsay Ave., 
Toronto, co-chairman of the Advisory 
Committee. 

The Camp has an interesting dual¬ 
origin name— Tonakela. In North- 
American Indian language this means 
“Others First”: in an East-Indian 
tongue, a word of almost identical 
sound means “Not for Self”. Because 
of this similarity, and as a compliment 
to support from this continent, the 
North-American form and spelling were 
accepted. 


32 


Canadian Camping 








Camp Tonakela (it is near Madras) 
last year provided for 28 groups (452 
girls and 1,721 boys). All use the facili¬ 
ties without charge. Some make their 
own feeding arrangements: those that 
cannot do so are provided for from 
funds that Canadians and others make 
available. 

The camp co-operates fully with local 
relief authorities. Nearby village chil¬ 
dren get their only decent meal a day 
free at the camp. The local region is at 
times saved from death-dealing water- 
famine by using the camp’s swimming- 
pool supply solely for human consump¬ 
tion. 

The writer knows of no other service 
or relief project in which absolutely 
100% of the contributions goes directly 
into service without any deductions for 
transmission, administration or wages. 

Twenty-five cents from a Canadian 
camper will feed a camper at Tonakela 
for a whole day. How many days will 
your campers provide? 



National Camp-Can. 
Cirl Cnidea Ass 9 n. 

Joan Fisicen 

For ten days in July, the Connaught 
Rifle Range, near Ottawa, will be dot¬ 
ted with tents, but instead of khaki- 
clad soldiers, Girl Guides in copen blue 
of summer uniform will be encamped. 

From all over Canada—from British 
Columbia to Newfoundland, and from 
as far as Yellowknife, N.W.T., will 
come 1,200 Girl Guides, Rangers and 
Guiders for the third National Camp. 
Every girl will pay the same camp fee 
and rail fare, thanks to an agreement to 
pool expenses. 

Guide guests from overseas have been 
invited from the U.S.A., Brazil, Ber¬ 
muda, Jamaica, Guadaloupe, Curacao. 

It will be a huge camp, but it will be 
divided into small groups, just as if 
there were 43 Guide Companies on one 
site. In each circle of 5 tents will be 
25 Guides and 3 Leaders. Carrying out 
the theme of the camp, “Our Canadian 
Heritage”, every group will have a 
name famous in Canadian history, and 
will include girls from all over the 
country as well as some of the guests. 
What a chance for young Canadians to 
get to know one another! The girls will 
do their own cooking over trench fires, 
drawing rations from Headquarters, 


FOR CAMPING SATISFACTION 


. . . use 



Inquiries invited on: Paddles, Aqua Skis, Aqua Boards, etc. 

THE PETERBOROUGH CANOE COMPANY LIMITED 

PETERBOROUGH ONTARIO CANADA 


Toronto, Canada, June, 1952 


33 



and each camp of 25 will, through 
“Court of Honour” organize its own 
daily programme. 

Special big group events for Campers 
only are the Opening Camp Fire, with 
a historical pageant staged by the Ot¬ 
tawa Guides, Provincial Song and 
Dance Night, and the closing Camp- 
Fire. Miss Mary Chater, Great Britain’s 
Music Commissioner, will direct the 
singing. 

Only specially invited guests will at¬ 
tend the official opening ceremony at 
which the Guides will march past. All 
visitors will be welcomed for Display 
Night, July 21st, and Visitors’ Day, the 
22nd. 

Supervised sightseeing tours of Ot¬ 
tawa have been arranged, and Guides 
may go in groups to visit friends, or to 
shop in town. 

For recreation, as well as swimming, 
16 group activity tents are planned, 
where knotting, puppet and gadget¬ 
making, singing, dramatics, etc., can 
be enjoyed by all. A special feature is 
“Our Home Town Forum” or Gossip 
Center, where girls can exchange stories 
and information, and learn something 
of Guiding and life in different parts 
of Canada. 

Though Campers were allotted to 
the Provinces on a quota basis, every 
Guide was able to participate in Camp 
by entering one of the three competi¬ 
tions to be judged at Ottawa—map¬ 
ping, a company project; original Can¬ 
adian Songs; and knitting, the garments 
to go to Korean children. 

The Rangers will camp in three 
groups of 24 each, and as well as her 
own group activities, each Ranger is 
to give three hours’ service each day at 
Headquarters. 

Inspired by the happy spirit amongst 
the Canadian, American and Brazilian 
campers at the 1948 World Conference 
of Girl Guides and Girl Scouts, the 
National Camp is the result of two 
years of thought and planning. Every 
member of Staff, every Camper is anti¬ 
cipating, with excitement and keenness, 
ten unforgettable days. 


TRADING 

POST 


Slippery Docks 

If you have the problem of your dock 
becoming slippery, try painting the 
wood and immediately sprinkling a 
coat of finely-sifted sand directly over 
the fresh paint. For a longer “life” to 
the project, a second coat of paint ap¬ 
plied after the first one has dried, will 
achieve this purpose. When it is neces¬ 
sary to repeat the job, see that the old 
paint and loose sand are first scraped 
off. 

Plastic Dressings 

Since Ingram and Bell in their adver¬ 
tisement has not boasted about the new 
plastic dressings which are now avail¬ 
able, we would like to mention them. 
They are called Dalmas antiseptic first 
aid dressings. There are various sizes 
of small adhesive plastic band-aid dress¬ 
ings, ready to use and water proof. 
Since they are thin and elastic, they 
stretch with movement and stay on the 
hard-to-bandage places. Camp doctors 
and nurses will appreciate their handi¬ 
ness and durability for first-aid treat¬ 
ment of campers’ minor cuts, scrapes 
and scratches. 

Splatter Printing 

Making leaf prints by splatter print¬ 
ing is good fun for campers. There 
are several ways of doing it. This 
method gives excellent results. Any 
small spray gun or atomizer (even a 
fly tox sprayer) can be used to make 
a fine spray. 


34 


Canadian Camping 





Fill the gun with diluted water-color 
paint or ink of some bright color. Ar¬ 
range leaves or ferns on a sheet of 
paper, and place this on several news¬ 
papers spread on the floor. Pump the 
spray about three feet above the paper 
and a little to one side. Standing to 
one side prevents large drops from fall¬ 
ing on the paper from the atomizer. 

Lift the leaves when the paper is 
completely dry and they will be silhou¬ 
etted on the paper with a background 
of colored spray. Experiment with bor¬ 
ders and two or more colors. For camp 
banquets, etc., serviettes and place cards 
can be decorated easily and quickly. 

Getting Rid of Wasps 

From the Ontario Department of 
Lands and Forests comes a suggestion 
for getting rid of wasps when chemical 
sprays are not available or for some 
reason or other are not convenient to 
do the job. “On a damp night, that is, 
one during which the dew has formed, 
the wasps’ nest can be safely picked up 
on a long stock and carried to a suitable 
place for destruction, such as an incin¬ 
erator or stove or other means. The 
principle behind this is that the wasps’ 
wings are damp, rendering them in¬ 
capable of flight, and they are able only 
to crawl about the nest. However, a 
long stick is essential since the wasps, 
while unable to fly, can still sting.” A 
wasps’ nest near a cabin can cause 
much distress among campers. 

Detergents and Their Effect on Grease 

Continuous use of synthetic deter¬ 
gents in camp dishwashing, shower and 
clothes washing facilities is likely to 
result in serious malfunctioning of the 
camp’s sewage system. These detergents 
cause a carry-over to filters of greases 
in waste water and are likely to pro¬ 
gressively seal the absorbing media with 
a resulting eventual failure of the sew¬ 
age system. 

Fuller information on this subject 
was given in the March number of the 
Camping Magazine of the A.C.A. 


BOB WALLACE 

Hobbycraft 

"Make What You Like" 

Consult the practical 
Crafts man with years 
of CAMP experience. 

® Indian Headdress 

• Leathercraft 

• Shellcraft 

• Art Supplies 
9 Felt Craft 

© Wood Carving 
© X-acto Knives and Tools 

• Bersted Moulds 

• Camp Craft Supplies 

2387 Yonge Street, Toronto 
MOhawk 0967 


SPECIALISTS 

in 

Camp Medical Supplies 

and 

First Aid Kits 


A convenient Special Pre-Written 
Order Form for requisitioning your 
camp medical supplies is FREE on 
request. 

Write or Phone . . . 

Ingram & Bell 

LIMITED 
TORONTO 

Montreal - Winnipeg 
Calgary - Vancouver 



Toronto, Canada, June, 1952 


35 




You Can Be More Successful 

in Camping! 


The secret* lies in always keeping up to 
date with the latest ideas in 
organized camping. 

Alert camp directors and their staffs read 
about tried and proved ideas in the 
monthly CAMPING MAGAZINE and the 
annual REFERENCE AND BUYING 
GUIDE issues. They know the danger of 
static thinking and obsolete ideas. You, 
too, will find these publications a never- 
ending source of new, usable ideas. 

Membership in American Camping Asso¬ 
ciation includes your subscription to these 
publications and many more valuable 
benefits, costs $3.00 to $25.00 per year, 
depending on classification. For full 
information, write American Camping 
Assn., 343 S. Dearborn St., Chicago 4. 

Or you may subscribe to the publications 
alone for $3.25 per year. 

Fill in and mail the handy coupon NOW. 



In the Magazine . . . 

Eight issues every year 
—a s much usable 
material as in an 800- 
page book! 

In the Reference Issue 

. . . More than 160 
pages of charts, tables, 
diagrams; answers to 
hundreds of questions. 


AMERICAN CAMPING ASSN. 

343 S. Dearborn St. 

Chicago 4, Illinois 

Please send me full information on 
membership in American Camping 
Association. 


CAMPING MAGAZINE 
705 Park Ave. 

Plainfield, N. J. 

Please enter my subscription to Camp¬ 
ing Magazine. Payment of $. 

is enclosed. 


Name . 

Street and No 
City.... 


. Zone. Province. 

Use separate sheet to enter additional orders for your staff. 


CC-6-52 


36 


Canadian Camping 












More Book Bevieir* 


The Trip Camp Book: Published by 
Girl Scouts of the United States of 
America; 155 East 44th Street, New 
York 17, N.Y.; price, 75c. 

“Tr’p camping is one of the most 
enjoyable kinds of camping because it 
combines a good time, a visit to new 
scenes and expert camping”. This small 
book summarizes in concise form much 
of the necessary knowledge of the skills 
required to make the perfect tripper. 
Some of the subjects dealt with are: 
planning the trip, camp sites with illus¬ 
trations of shelters, food and menus, 
equipment, etc. There are chapters on 
different kinds of trips, such as walking 
trips, mountain climbing, trail trips, 
wagon trips, canoe trips, etc. Hints on 
sanitary arrangements and health and 
safety arc a most important part of the 
book. 


The Day Camp Book: Published by the 
Girl Scouts of the United States of 
America; 155 East 44th Street, New 
York 17, N.Y.; price, 50c. 

The material in this book of 126 
pages is planned to help with the prob¬ 
lems of day camping—under such head¬ 
ings as planning, administration and 
program activities. The need for good 
day camping grows as the juvenile 
population of our cities grows. Day 
camping calls for less equipment and 
less expenditure of money and can 
reach larger numbers of children. Ex¬ 
pansion needs only adequate numbers 
of qualified leaders and adequate space. 

The staff has great responsibility in 
providing for the campers a real out¬ 
door experience with lots of fun, satis¬ 
factory group participation, instruction 
in camp lore and a development of re¬ 
sourcefulness. This practical handbook 
serves a most useful purpose in giving 
evcellent guidance in day camping. 
There are numerous amusing and inter¬ 
esting illustrations. 


i 



ymtmw you 

L WANT THE BEST 

— Equipment 
j — — ideals— 

[Safety — Happy Times — a 
marvelous growth m Strength, 

| Stamina, Resourcefulness and 
: Self-Reliance—Write W. L 
Childs, Afh. Dir., New Trier 
High School, Winnetka, ML 

Canoe cruising, thrilling ad¬ 
ventures, unexplored country, 

| unfished waters, big game in 
America’s finest camping 
country. All sp o rf $. 40 
I cabins. 60 boats. Real beds. 
Best of food. Physician, Hurse, 
^Established 1920. 


ABOVE GAMP FOR SALE 
CAMP for sale—Ovvakonze on Baril 
Lake and CNR 100 miles west of Port 
Arthur ideally located and equipped, 
successfully operated 32 years as pri¬ 
vate boys’ camp in our finest canoe 
trip country—water toboggan slide, 
athletic field, tennis courts, 2 gym¬ 
nasiums. Complete equipment for 
camp of over 100. Can be seen in 
operation this summer. Write Director 
W. L. Childs, 350 Winnetka Av., Win¬ 
netka, Illinois. After June 20 address 
Owakonze, Ontario. 


For Your 


CAMP BAKERY SUPPLIES . . . 


CANADA BREAD 

224 Davenport Road - Toronto, Ont. 


Shipments Prepaid to All 
Ontario Points 


“The Quality Goes in Before 
the Name Goes On" 


Toronto , Canada , June , 1952 


37 




















Our Friends 
the Advertisers 


Camping Magazine .-. 36 

Canada Bread Co. Ltd... 37 

Canada Packers Ltd.-.-. 27 

Cassidy’s Ltd. . ..— 29 

T. Eaton Co. Ltd... 3 

Gibbons Quickset 

Desserts ...Inside Cover 

S. Gumpert Co. of Can. Ltd. 28 

Ingram & Bell Ltd.-.-. 35 

John Leckie Ltd. 31 

Lewiscraft Supplies Ltd... 24 

Macmillan Co. of Can. Ltd... 28 

Maple Leaf Plastics Ltd.,.-. 29 

National Carbon Co. Ltd. 4 

Owakonze Camp Ltd. 37 

Peterborough Canoe Co. Ltd. 33 

Reckitt & Colman Can. Ltd. 27 

Safety Supply Co. .. 25 

R. Simpson Co. Ltd..Back Cover 

J. J. Taylor & Sons Ltd. 30 

Telephone Manufacturing Co. Ltd. 32 

Vermont Accident Insurance Co. 39 

Bob Wallace Hobbycraft... 35 

G. R. Welch Co. Ltd. 32 


CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING 

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING RATES: 

Five cents a word, minimum two dollars. 
All classified advertising - payable in advance. 
Address all correspondence to “Canadian 
Camping”, 170 Bloor Street West, Toronto, 
Ontario. 

PLEASE 

SUPPORT 

OUR 

ADVERTISERS 



1st Lighter Veits 

“The last time I went horseback rid¬ 
ing I wanted to go one way and the 
horse wanted to go the other.” “What 
happened 1” “The horse tossed me for 



Child: “Mummy’s got diabetis and 
the doctor is treating her with indo¬ 
lence.” 

Little girl to parents urging her to 
eat: “I don’t want to grow up big and 
strong. I want to be pale and interest¬ 
ing 1 ” 

Once there was a camper 

And how that child could gush; 

She revelled in superlatives 
And always had a “crush”. 

Everything was “super”, 

Or something she adored ; 

She always knew the answers 
And was never, never floored. 

She watched a counsellor painting: 

“What a gorgeous -sky!”, she cried. 
“Why, it’s utterly entrancing!” 

While she watched, she raved and 
sighed. 

“How I long to take those colors home. 

It would be the greatest thrill.” 
“Since you’re sitting on my pallette”, 
Said the counsellor, “You will!” 

—M.S.E. 

—★— 

A candle in its right place can render 
a service which the brightest star could 
never do. 


38 


Canadian Camping 



























HAVE THE BEST 


CAMPERS' INSURANCE 


MEDICAL REIMBURSEMENT 
ACCIDENTAL DEATH 
TUITION REFUND 
EPIDEMIC 
POLIO 


We wrote the first of this coverage 
ever written in 1937. During the 
ensuing years, hundreds of thousands 
of camping children have been insured 
by us in the States, Canada, Hawaii 


and Europe. 


BEST IN COVERAGE - BEST IN SERVICE 



THE SIGN OF 
GOOD SERVICE 


RUTLAND, VT. 


VERMONT ACCiDENT INSURANCE CO. 


RUTLAND, VERMONT, U.S.A. 







WE 

CONSULT.. 
DESIGN.. 
SUPPLY 


Everything for CAMPS, Lodges, Motels 
Motor Courts and Summer Resorts. 


SPECIAL CONTRACT DIVISION 


TORONTO 

LONDON MONTREAL 

WINNIPEG REGINA 

Ontario orders ask for : Mr. F. A. 
Hardman, Trinity 9111, Local 531, 
Simpson's - Toronto 


(Head Office) 

HALIFAX EDMONTON 

CALGARY VANCOUVER 

Others please direct communications 
specifially to your nearest branch 
of the Special Contract Division. 


































