OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

CANADIAN CAMPING 


•June HP (Hi* Toronto, Canada 

















Manufacturers 


of 


the famous 

"RUB-A-DUB-DUB 

Quickset 

3 MEN IN A TUB" 

Quality 


Food Products 

HUNGRY? 

for Camps 


anywhere 

No - 

in Canada 

They have their 

Jelly Powders 

Pudding Powders 

Pie Fillings 

Instant Puddings 

camp- me 

Cake Mixes 

Economical ready-to-go food units, 

Table Syrup 

packed in 4-man waterproof packages. 

Just add water, cook and your meal is 

Fruit Rickeys 

Hot Chocolate 

ready. 

Flavorings 

Soup Bases 

"Cookout" cooking the modern way 
—breakfasts, lunches, dinners. 

Marmalades 

"CAMP-RITE" Foods are on display at 

Jams 

your conventions. 

Fruit Pie Fillings 

Camp-Rite 



GIBBONS FOODS LTD. 

49 ADVANCE ROAD TELEPHONE 239-1421 


TORONTO 18, CANADA 



Dear, what's 
a six-letter word 
for security? 


That’s easy. E-a-t-o-n : s. Most Canadian women know that. 
It’s also a six-lctlcr word for confidence, convenience, 
protection, quality, friendliness and selection. 

there’s so much for i on ill EATO N 5 


Toronto. Canada. June 1966 


107 







108 


Canadian Camping 







FOR REM. HEAVY DUTY 
WASHQli- 
McKEMCO’S NEW 
AERO COMPOUND IS 

UNBEATABLE 

• The ideal answer for heavily soiled garments! 

• Excellent for dirty linen supply work too! 

• Use as a "one shot” compound, or with McKemco Laundry 
Soap Powder or pure soap 

• Use dry on the wash wheel, or in a stock solution 

• Contains C.M.C. plus a fluorescent brightener, but no bleach 

For a free demonstration of what new Aero compound can do for 
your operations, contact your McKemco man! 


(• 

lit- . il*. 


§Pi 



CHEMICAL COMPANY LIMITED 


23 Year* of Srr*ic»* with Saif* 

100 MIDWEST ROAD, SCARBOROUGH, ONTARIO 
and McKAGUE CHEMICALS (EASTERN) LTD. 

421 COURTEMANCHE AVENUE, MONTREAL EAST, QUEBEC 



Toronto , Canada , June I960 


109 











AMERICAN CAMPING 
ASSOCIATION 


STANDARD FORMS AND RECORD 


Accident Report Forms— For their protec¬ 
tion, all camps should keep accurate and 
detailed records of all accidents which 
occur in camp, both major and minor. 
These forms. develoi»cd by the AC A Health 
and Safety Committee, are an excellent 
way of doing so. 11. 

In pads of 25. 75c 

Camp StafT Application — Application de¬ 
veloped by the Leadership Committee of 
ACA, printed two sides, 8 1 /-; x 11. Designed 
to be used by individual camps, with space 
provided for the insertion of the camp 
name and address. Form 106-55. 2c 

$1.50 C 


Health Examination Form — Printed both 
sides on 8% x 11 paper, these health forms 
were developed by a joint committee of the 
American Camping Association and the 
American Academy of Pediatrics. Space is 
provided at the top of the form for the 
insertion of the camp name and address. 

2c each 


$1.50 C — $10.00 M 


..#101-54-R60—Campers Health Examination 
Form for Boys 

,.#102-54-R60—Campers Health Examination 
Form for Girls 

..#103-54—Camp Health Record — For keep¬ 
ing the individual camper’s health 
record in camp. 

..#104-55-R60—Camp Employee Health Ex¬ 
amination Form—For all staff; 
administrative, leadership, service, 
maintenance. 

..#105-55-R60—Adult Camper Health Exam¬ 
ination Form—For adult campers 
(not staH), family campers, etc. 
Health Examination Cards—Printed both 
sides on 5 x 8 card stock with similar for¬ 
mat to health examination forms. 2c each 
$1.50 C — $10.00 M 

..#101-62 — Campers Health Examination 
Card for Boys 

..#102-62 — Campers Health Examination 
Card for Girls 

..#103-62—Camp Health Record Card 


Name . 

Street . 

City, Zone, Prov.. 

Amount Enclosed: $. 

Please Send Invoice . 

American Camping 
Association 

BRADFORD WOODS 
MARTINSVILLE — INDIANA 46151 


TRAVEL 

Around The World 



See the Koala Bear in Australia 

Join the exciting 1966 event of the 
Camping Friendship Round the World 
Tours. Enjoy 60 unforgettable days 
with a small, congenial group in the 
Fall of 1966. The “different” itinerary 
includes areas ofT the beaten tourist 
track, in addition to well-known major 
centers. 

Visit exotic Hawaii, the Fiji Islands, 
New Zealand, Australia, Ceylon, Greece. 
Italy, Switzerland, France, Netherlands, 
England. 

Enjoy specially arranged meetings with 
camp directors of other lands. Swap 
ideas for unusual camp programs. Make 
contacts with new stafT personnel. 

Your tour conductors will he Mary 
and Howard Galloway, editors and 
publishers of CAMPING MAGAZINE. 
Size of group is limited, so please 
write now for colorful new brochure 
and full information. 

Camping Friendship 
Round the World 

Room 101, 5 Mountain Ave., 

N. Plainfield, NJ. 07060 


110 


Canadian Camping 





















MOSQUITOES 


KILL 

THEM 



SIMPLY THROW IT 



EQUALLY EFFECTIVE IN LARGE 
SWAMPS OR SMALL POOLS 


IN THE WATER 


^ Write for prices 

12.00 SERVICES 
l_ I IV1 I T E D 


232 NORSEMAN ST.. TORONTO 18. ONT. 


Wholesale 
Aledical 
Supplies . . . 

Medical Equipment 
First Aid Requirements 
Drugs and Medicines 

Low Prices Fast Service 

STARKMAN CHEMISTS 

459 Bloor St. W. - Toronto 
WA. 2 - Twenty-One - Twenty-One 


;\ # *t :•*. *a :: :* m m m m m m m m k m k m k m m t-i M M K M K ^ 


IT'S 


FREE 


IT'S 


BIG 


IT'S 


NEW 


It's Canada's Most Complete Leathercraft Catalog 

IT'S TANDY'S NEW BIG TOO PAGE CATALOG 
PLUS EXCITING NEW CAMP SUPPLEMENT 
RUSH COUPON TODAY TO: 

TANDY CLARKE & CLARKE 


P.O. BOX 340-AG 


BARRIE, ONTARIO 


Nome .. 
H Address 
City . 


. Prov . 

fj RUSHCOUPONTODAY || 

$.♦ j.j j.* j.j ;.j j.j j.j j.j j.j j.j M M M M 2£ M M M M M M M K M M K M M K K W ♦*# •» •• * 


Toronto, Canada, Juno 1966 


111 



























ADULT MOSQUITOES 
and BLACK FLIES 


INSTANTLY,with a 

Dywfibo 

GENERATOR 

Enjoy outdoor activities 
in the evening —PEST FREE 

^ write now for a f ree 

^o"o services demonstration 

l I M I T S O 

232 NORSEMAN ST.. TORONTO 18. ONT„ 


CAMP OWNERS USE 



SOLIGNUM 

Preserves end beeutifies 
exterior wood 

SUPER SOLIGNUM 

Indoor end outdoor 
wood stein for fences, 
wills, furniture, end decks 

RYLARD VARNISH 

Femous merine quelity 

NORDIC ENAMEL 

Herd weering 
merine finish 

TOXO 

A weter repellent 
cenves preservetive 


STURGEONS LIMITE D 

9 STURGEON ROAD 
SCARBOROUGH, ONT. 


‘Protective &uUiH$e "per j 4 (i Purfioeee 


T-J._ id 

jwmerujff 

Extra QUALITY PAYS . . . 

and that is verified by the confidence of our customers, which continues 
year after year. 

Foodcraft specialized foods offer many unique advantages and they sum 
up to what you want—distinctive quality meals at minimum cost. 

Write for information and samples now while you have time for thorough 
examination. No obligation whatever. 

• Specialized Foods • Specialized Service 

FOODCRAFT LABORATORIES LIMITED 

260 Richmond Street East Toronto 2, Ontario 

Telephone: 368-8088 

DIRECT SERVICE ACROSS CANADA 
Member — Canadian Camping Association 


112 


Canadian Camping 
















CANADIAN CAMPING 

Vol. 18 JUNE, 1966 No. 4 


CONTENTS 


Conversation in Conservation.Kirk Wippcr 

Challenge in Camping.Barry Lowes 

To Live — Tributes to Dais L. Gass. 

From the Provinces. 

The Camper oh the Camper.Don GrofT 

Now for the Centenary...Kirk Wippcr 

What’s Cooking Tonight.Margaret Govan 

Our Centenary Journey...John Latimer 

Gem Making.Bruno Morawetz 

Camp Director’s Diary . 

An Aid for Wildlife..Kirk Wippcr 

There’s a Song.Helen Tuttle 


114 

115 
121 
124 
126 

129 

130 
133 
135 

138 

139 
141 


CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 
4036 West 30th Ave., Vancouver 8, B.C. 
Honorary President 


Past Presidents 
* Taylor Statten, Toronto 
♦Dais L. Gass, Montreal 
Anne I. Vail, Montreal 
W. E. (Ted) Yard, Sault Ste. Marie 
Irwin Haladner, Toronto 
F. M. Van Wagner, Montreal 
Kenneth H. Murray, Montreal 
Don Smith, Edmonton 

President 

Mrs. May Brown, Vancouver 

Senior Vice-President 

Gordon McNab, Vancouver 

Vice-Presidents 

Mrs. Faye Ecclestone, B.G. 

Mrs. H. Roessingh, Alta. 

Robert Douglas, Man. 

Mrs. J. H. Ebbs, Ont. 

Robert Lazanik, Quc. 

Rev. David Hartry, N.S. 


- Miss Mary Edgar 
Executive Secretary 

Mrs, Charles (Peggy,) Etchell 
3845 West 14th Ave., 
Vancouver 8, B.C. 

Secretary 

Rev. Ernie T. Loreen 
167 West 26th Avenue, 
Vancouver 10, B.C. 

Treasurer 
Richard Caswell 
New Westminster 

Publisher , Canadian Camping 
Fred Haiblen, 

170 Bloor St. West, Toronto 
924-7117 

Editor 

Mrs. A. E. Harshaw, 

Apt. 704, Ridcau Towers, 

35 Thorncliffe Park Drive, 
Toronto 17 
*Deceased 


Editorial Committee — 

Don Groff, Chairman, Joyce Bertram, Eanswythc Flynn, Margaret Govan, Jean 
Darrach, Bruno Morawetz, Kirk Wippcr, Ted Yard. 


"CANADIAN CAMPING" 13 PUBLISHED FOUR TIMES A YEAR BY THE CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
CO FOR THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION AT 170 BLOOR ST. WEST, TORONTO, ONTARIO. SUB¬ 
SCRIPTION PRICES: MEMBERSHIP IN THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION INCLUDES CANADIAN 

CAMPING: TO NON-MEMBERS, 73 CENTS PER COPY, $2.73 PER YEAR, $0.00 FOR THREE YEARS. 

AUTHORIZED AS SECOND CLASS MAIL, POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT, OTTAWA, ONT., AND FOR PAY¬ 
MENT OF POSTAGE IN CASH. 


Toronto, Canada, June 1966 


113 
















CONVERSATION 

in CONSERVATION 

by Kirk Wipper, 

Director, Comp Kandalore. 

materials, and arts using natural 
themes. These ought to be integrated 
in such a way that a consistent point of 
It has become increasingly evident view is presented. For example, il in 
that the maintenance of human re- wildlife we discover the significance ot 
sources is directly dependent upon the young saplings in maintaining forest 
conservation of natural resources. But growth, we ought not to ruthlessly 
appreciation for conservation has not and indiscriminately gather these lor 
been readily grasped on a continent making up gadgets or circus booths, 
where natural resource's appear to be Similarly, protecting the wilderness 
of limitless dimensions. Thousands of against the ravages of fire or careless 
acres of untouched, unturned soil, camping has special implications for 
chains of lakes and rivers—some still to camperaft. Camping is education in the 
be charted — and towering forests of out-of-doors, for the out-of-doors and 
valuable timber tended to condition by the out-of-doors—its continued cxist- 



new North American inhabitants to 
waste. But how quickly the fact of 
plenty was altered! Exploding popula¬ 
tions, industrial expansion, urban 
sprawl, and now automation and mech¬ 
anization all have contributed to a new 
concept of conservation which relates 
to man’s very survival. Already polluted 
water sources have become an inter¬ 
national issue, and enlightened leader¬ 
ship is realizing that conservation 
measures are now urgent. 

What has this to do with camping? 
At the outset the camping movement 
must realize that one of the primary 
reasons for being is its special interest 
in and use of the natural environment. 
One of the important goals of camping 
in the conservation areas is to develop 
a camp attitude or philosophy which 
should permeate campers and staff. It 
is achieved specifically through effec¬ 
tive leadership in such activities as 
wildlife, conservation projects, camp- 
craft, orienteering, crafts using natural 


ence depends very directly on current 
attitudes and practices in the natural 
surroundings. 

Any camp related to natural sur¬ 
roundings of even the most modest 
variety ought to deliberately cultivate 
a sensitivity, an appreciation, a knowl¬ 
edge and an understanding of natural 
things. If any hope is held for intelli¬ 
gent management of natural resources 
in the future, it would follow that a 
rational point of view must be develop¬ 
ed at an early age. Armed with proper 
foundations youth of today and adults 
of tomorrow can be expected to make 
wiser judgments than their fathers in 
an environment which is expected to 
sustain a civilization which appears to 
threaten with ever increasing intensity 
the environment on which it inevitably 
depends. There arc many great lessons 
to be learned: not the least of which is 
that there is nothing in this world that 
is useless, only some things that con- 

page 137 please 


114 


Canadian Camping 




CHALLENGE IN CAMPING 


Address given by Barry Lowes to the 
closing banquet of the Annual Conference 
of the Ontario Camping Association on 
March 19, 1966, at the Inn-on-the-Park, 
Toronto. 

Mr . Lowes is Chairman of the Toronto 
Board of Education , Director of Camp 
Timberlane, past Chairman of the O.C.A. 
and a member of the Board. 


When the late A. L. Cochrane first 
went into Temagami, the Wright 
brothers hadn’t even gotten ofi the 
ground at Kitty Hawk. Yet. on any 
clear night at camp last summer, one 
could look up and see a man-made 
satellite moving across the sky. The 
brakes are off the world. It’s on a run¬ 
away scientific course and camping is 
in grave danger of being left behind. 

Is Camping Obsolete? 

Some say that camping is on the 
way out—and they could be right. 
Whether it withers and dies, remem¬ 
bered only as a romantic anachronism 
of the first half of the 20th century, or 
whether it grows and develops to meet 
the special needs of this new age will 
depend upon ns—you and me. 

At this very moment, when camping 
appears to be at a peak of development, 
the forces of extinction are at work. 
They can be seen, if you take time to 
look, know where to look—and want to 
look. Those people who believe that 
camping can continue in its present 
form constitute one of the greatest 
threats to the camping movement. 

The most obvious force for change 
lies in the variety of choices available 
to more and more people today. Pat¬ 
terns of family living have been revolu¬ 
tionized in the past ten years. Shorter 
work weeks, longer paid vacations, 
more money to spend, more cars, boats, 
more parks and camping grounds, 


better roads; families a*c on the move. 

Another pressure is caused by the 
booming real estate market in cottage 
properties. Where only ten years ago 
you could move freely about the prov¬ 
ince, today, south of North Bay, the 
lands and lakes are being gobbled up 
at an accelerating rate. 

Another whole strata of our society 
is discovering the world. Thousands of 
boys and girls, and older teenagers are 
taking ofi’ for Europe each summer or 
to tour the U.S.A., or on student ex¬ 
changes. This outpouring from our 
cities isn’t bad. It’s wonderful! But 
these are families who feel no need for 
camp. 

Another threat to camping is the 
sprawling amoeba of government that 
is growing, spreading, touching and 
enveloping ever more areas of our lives. 
In the past few years camping has felt 
the pseudopodial touch of ever more 
departments of government. The legis¬ 
lation covering every area of education 
and child-care is growing. Claiming to 
be educational, camping lies in the path 
of this legislation. 

Standards 

At present, the most precious posses¬ 
sion that any parents have—their child 
—is entrusted to our care. Naively, they 
assume that membership in O.C.A. is 
some guarantee of excellence. But it 
isn’t really. The importance of raising 


' Toronto , Canada , June 1906 


115 



our sights on standards, gradually but 
steadily, is vital to the future of camp¬ 
ing. If we do not constantly improve 
our own houses, others will want to do 
it for us. 

We have just appointed an executive 
secretary. This is a wonderful sign of 
growth, and in Mr. Stan Wild I believe 
you have made a wise choice. There is 
also grave danger in such a step. For 
too long, too few people have sup¬ 
ported and carried out the work of the 
Association. There is the danger that 
people may be all too eager to step 
back and let the executive secretary 
carry the load. The strength of O.C.A. 
has been its voluntary nature; it will 
only be as strong as your active partici¬ 
pation. Anyone can pay fees, that’s only 
money and its value keeps shrinking. 
The only really valuable thing any of 
us have to give is our time. How much 
have you given during the past year? 
This is the true measure of your sup¬ 
port of the camping movement. 

Another force that has eroded the 
strength of the Camping Association 
for many years has been the under¬ 
current of pettiness that has accom¬ 
panied the terms profit and non-profit. 
To me, these terms are anathema. 
There are many private non-profit 
camps and a number of agency profit 
camps in this province. There is a 
demeaning connotation to the word 
non-profit and an equally slurrish 
undertone to the word profit. A camp 
is a camp, and a child is a child. The 
aims and objectives should be parallel. 
Good and bad camping can be found 
in either private or agency camps. The 
sooner we realize that we are both in 
the same canoe, shooting the same 
rapids, and paddle together, the better 
off the camping movement will be. 

Camping vs. Education 

An even bigger threat to the camp¬ 
ing movement, and one that has only 


been glimpsed, is education. The great¬ 
est explosion that has occurred in the 
world in the past five years has not 
been the 50-megaton bomb, it has been 
education. The word is on everyone’s 
lips. It is held up as the panacea or it 
is reviled as a trick to keep teenagers 
ofT the labour market. Wherever you 
stand along the spectrum, you cannot 
deny that education is the most impor¬ 
tant force at work in the world today. 
It is a tidal wave moving across our 
land and camping could be engulfed. 

For as long as I can remember, camp¬ 
ing people have boasted that camping 
is more than fresh air and sunshine, 
more than just recreation. We have 
maintained that it is a special, intensive 
kind of education, set in the out-of- 
doors. The more I see of education, and 
the seven-league strides it is taking, and 
the closer I look at what camps do as 
opposed to what they claim to do—the 
more I think we talk a better game 
than we play. 

Let us look at some of the recent 
developments in education that relate 
directly to camping. 

Summer schools have caught on and 
are here to stay and flourish. They 
started as make-up courses for students 
who were weak in one or two subjects. 
They are a wonderful alternative for 
the old idiotic practice of repeating a 
whole grade. How many of us have lost 
junior counsellors or older campers at 
the last minute to summer schools? 
This will continue to increase and is 
even occurring at the elementary school 
level in some systems. We may have to 
make acceptance of staff and campers 
conditional upon Easter results. 

Another threat is the voluntary sum¬ 
mer school. More and more students 
are discovering that learning can in 
truth be fun. Academic students are 
signing up for welding, carpentry, 
typing, or drafting courses. Technical 


116 


Canadian Camping 



.students have shown an eagerness to 
take English, typing, philosophy, book¬ 
keeping; over 40 different subjects are 
offered, just for pleasure. This is won¬ 
derful. This is true education. The 
courses are free and more and more 
students are enrolling. But as these 
numbers grow, young people are drawn 
away from camping. 

Another threat to camping is the 
very real possibility of a long school 
year. Why do we have two full months 
vacation every summer? The rationale 
for it probably dates back to the farm 
boy at the “little red school house”— 
Tom Sawyer days. There are those in 
positions of influence in education who 
believe that it wastes students* time and 
is grossly wasteful of money to let our 
schools stay idle all summer. Wc may 
have to consider operating our camps 
at other times of the year for shorter 
camping periods. 

Does this mean that all agency and 
private camps should become summer 
schools mixing large doses of French, 
remedial reading, new mathematics and 
science with traditional camp activi¬ 
ties? Tutorials under the trees! I hope 
not! Heaven help us, I hope not! Then 
where does camping fit in? 

Real Values of Camping 

Has camping become passe, a horse 
and buggy in a space age? I believe 
that the need for camping is greater 
today than ever before. The values 
inherent in camping, the multitude of 
values that you all know so well, arc 
needed by children and youth as never 
before. The mounting pressures beset¬ 
ting children in our increasingly tech¬ 
nology-oriented society, the threat of 
nuclear annihilation, the threat of auto¬ 
mation, the threat of endless leisure, 
the threat of amorality—are constant 
and real to young people. 

We have always talked and boasted 
about the impressive list of values that 


can accrue to a child from a camping 
experience. But I submit to you, the 
claims have been mostly shadows with¬ 
out substance; they could not stand up 
to close scrutiny in a cold, unflattering 
light. 

There are dozens of areas of camp¬ 
ing that we should scrutinize together. 
Time is short. Let’s look at just a few. 

Parents arc far more discriminating 
today than 10 years ago. More and 
more have the effrontery to want to 
know why they should send their child 
to camp? The two short summer months 
are precious. How can my son or 
daughter spend them most valuably? 
What has your camp to offer that is 
really vital and meaningful for my 
teenager? For instance, we talk about 
learning to live with others, developing 
a concern for others. Does this really 
happen at your camp? 

Maybe we should take them to work 
with our impoverished Indians or into 
our downtown slum areas. Give them 
a chance to serve where there are real 
problems, real involvement in life. 

Too often we camp on islands of 
unreality while the world about us is 
a seething sea. For instance, Canada 
stands in danger of coming apart at 
the seams, after 100 years. Just beneath 
the veneer of stability are the old 
festering wounds, excoriated pride. We 
should be exchanging masses of chil¬ 
dren back and forth across this country. 
If the 3j/ 2 millions of dollars that have 
been poured down the drain on the 
Bilingual and Bicultural Commission 
had been spent instead to exchange 
young people, getting them into homes 
and camps across Canada, to live to¬ 
gether for a time. What a bridge of 
understanding such exchanges could 
form! 

What of the world’s starving millions? 
While our campers diet, others die of 
hunger. What a paradox! Maybe our 


Toronto, Canada, June 1966 


117 



campers should go without food for 
one day each week to sec how it feels 
to listen to their stomachs growl with 
hunger. The money saved could be sent 
to CARE or UNICEF. 

The true story is told of the two 7- 
ycar-olds in the school yard discussing 
perigees, apogees and terminal veloci¬ 
ties of rockets. When the bell rang, one 
boy said to the other with resignation 
“Come on„ I guess we have to go and 
see what Dick and Jane are doing”. 

What do our camps give these chil¬ 
dren who have watched men walk in 
space — seen close-up picture of the 
moon, who know about the DNA mole¬ 
cule? What kind of a natural science 
program do you have at your camp? 
Children were born to learn. Do we 
excite or stifle their natural curiosity? 
Do we encourage discussion of these 
things? 

These are swingers who come to our 
camps. They are “hep”. They are con¬ 
cerned about the world into which they 
were born. If they are confused, fright¬ 
ened, disillusioned — it is with good 
cause. 

These youngsters arc citizens of a 
shrinking but seething world and they 
are adrift in it. Most adults give 
them little or no guidance and a poor 
example. Camp should be a place 
where there is time for thinking, dis¬ 
cussion and reflection—a chance to talk 
out their feelings with adults who care, 
who do not sneer, scoff nor condescend 
—who do not preach, but listen and 
teach by example. 

There are two problems uppermost 
in the minds of teenagers today: school 
and their future jobs; and their rela¬ 
tionships with the opposite sex. They 
talk about these constantly, pooling 
their ignorance. Where can they get 
answers? They certainly don’t get them 
at home or at school or at church. 


We talk so much about how children 
learn to live with others, how we shape 
personalities and mould character. If 
it happens at all, I submit that in many 
camps it is more by accident than 
design. The thing that troubles me is 
that we in camping seem not to realize 
that we have in our camps the most 
dynamic social and educational milieux 
ever conceived. We are dabbling with 
an educational instrument whose full 
potential we have seldom glimpsed, let 
alone exploited. 

Each Child is an Individual 

Educators in the last few years have 
been moving out of the age of Oliver 
Twist into the 20th century. For years 
educators have paid lip service to the 
“individuality of each child”. They 
have agreed that there is no such thing 
as the average child, each one is differ¬ 
ent. They grow, mature and learn at 
different rates. Yet, most schools arc 
run as if there weren’t a word of truth 
in it. 

Each child is different, with different 
needs and different interests. Make this 
basic principle the star by which you 
guide your camps. It will be infinitely 
more demanding to treat campers as 
individuals, but the rewards, the values 
—in fact, the very reason for camping 
—demand that we cannot do less. If 
you want to measure your camp—use 
this yardstick. 

Fumbling Our Opportunities 

We have these children 24 hours a 
day. Each day stretches before us, full 
of opportunities. So often we fumble 
these opportunities in so many ways. 

By permitting people who have not 
sufficient qualifications to direct camps. 
The upgrading, training and ultimate 
certification of directors must be 
achieved before camping can lay any 
claim to professional status. 

Bv placing more emphasis on build¬ 
ing and equipment than on staff. We 


118 


Canadian Camping 



often put more campers into a group 
than a counsellor can properly serve. 

By claiming that vve cannot afford to 
pay counsellors and settling for staff 
who are too young or too inexperienced 
to meet the staggering demands of their 
roles? Are your counsellors still work¬ 
ing out their own growing problems? 
Do they baby-sit or boss but hardly 
ever really counsel. 

By leaving campers on their own for 
most of the day, while their counsellor 
teaches an activity. Who really knows 
or is aware and concerned about what 
happens to each camper hour by hour, 
day by day? 

By failing to provide the experienced 
supervisory help that young counsellors 
need so desperately, and which they 
have a right to expect. 

By placing more emphasis upon 
activities than on children. Programmes 
are organized so that little room is pro¬ 
vided for individual differences and 
interests. 

By not allowing campers time to be 
free, to choose, to daydream, to explore, 
to adventure, to have fun. 

Directors sometimes sink into the 
quicksand of administration, forgetting 
the real reason for camp. 

Do We Know Children? 

The greatest single lack in camping 
today, and it relates directly to these 
matters is that, in truth, we don’t 
understand children. If you say to a 
counsellor, “Your campers are a pretty 
stupid bunch, they can’t even do trigo¬ 
nometry”, he will answer, “Don’t be 
silly. Of course they can’t; they are 
only 10 years old”. And yet, this same 
counsellor will expect the trigonometry 
of social behaviour from those same 10- 
ycar-olds, and be angry and upset and 
even punish them when they can’t meet 
his expectations. 

So many of the counsellor problems 
with which we have to deal at camp 


are related directly to a lack of under¬ 
standing of what we can rightfully 
expect from the child at his present 
level of development. The young coun¬ 
sellor gets upset because his 8-year-olds 
cannot make their beds properly— 
aren’t even interested in tidiness or 
cleanliness. Ten-year-old girls can be 
whiners, petty and vindictive, merci¬ 
lessly forming hate-clubs against other 
girls, and so on. You cannot even pre¬ 
tend to meet and treat campers as indi¬ 
viduals until you have some conception 
of fair levels of social behaviour to 
expect. 

I respectfully submit that O.C.A. 
should set up a committee to prepare 
a booklet on patterns and stages of 
development in boys and girls as they 
relate to camp. This would be another 
big step in taking camping out of the 
hope-and-guess category into the field 
of education and professionalism. 

Let me just put three more cases 
before you. 

Camps for the Campers 

You must be as deeply concerned as 
I am about the pressure to which our 
children are being subjected today. 
Children with ulcers, children with 
breakdowns, children on tranquilizers 
—all symptoms of these mounting pres¬ 
sures. It takes a good week at camp 
for some to unwind, relax and realize 
that, for a brief time, the pressure 
cooker has been turned off. 

Let’s abolish bells, bugles and sirens 
that shatter the air at most camps. 
Why must the camper be answering 
signals all day? Why must the lights- 
out hour be so rigidly enforced? Why 
must the explorers turn back “or we’ll 
be late for our next period”? Why can’t 
clothes be a little sloppier? Must his 
tent or cabin look like a R.M.C. bar¬ 
racks room? Is it really important? Too 
often we forget that it is the child’s 
holiday. 


Toronto , Canada 9 June 1966 


119 



At camp a child should sometimes be 
able to lie on his back and watch the 
clouds scud by beyond the pines above 
him. He should be able to turn on his 
side and watch an ant tugging, push¬ 
ing, shoving a huge caterpillar through 
the jungle of grass that forms his micro¬ 
scopic world. There must be time for a 
child or a group to stay up late, or 
even be aroused from sleep to see the 
northern lights, a meteorite shower or 
to paddle down a highway of moon¬ 
light—time to watch fish jumping as 
the sun sets. These experiences must be 
theirs to remember for a lifetime, long 
after the baseball game, the archery, 
the routine activities are forgotten. 

How about conservation? Oh, how 
piously we camping people talk of con¬ 
versation! Everyone is in favour of con¬ 
servation, but when did you last plant 
any trees at your camp? What are you 
doing to check erosion at your camp? 
Are you wantonly spraying with insecti¬ 
cides? Do you clear out all the under¬ 
brush and dead stumps so essential to 
some forms of wildlife. Is your lake 
cleaner or dirtier since your camp was 
established? You can preach conserva¬ 
tion, but the children aren’t listening. 
They are watching your example. 

The truth is, you know, many camp 
directors do not like nature or outdoor 
living. 

One more thing that camp can give 
—must give—to each child; that is an 
awareness of God. The word is out that 
God is dead! Rubbish! The poor fool 
who made that statement could never 
have camped. I know of no place that 
can give a child a greater awareness of 
God. You have to search to find God 
in the city. At camp He is everywhere. 

Spirtiual values cannot be taught; 
certainly not by young students who 
have been spiritually emasculated by 
first-year philosophy. Such knowledge is 
caught—it is felt because it is an inte¬ 
gral part of the whole camp beginning 


with the director. Your campers will 
miss these values unless you feel them 
first. They are learned all day indi¬ 
rectly. not just at services. For the soul, 
like the body, lives by what it feeds on. 
Is your camp rich in this soul food? 

Let’s Not Be Left Behind 

What I have tried to say is that the 
camping movement cannot stand still— 
the world current is racing too swiftly. 
That there is a greater need for camp¬ 
ing today than ever before. But we 
cannot stumble along from summer to 
summer, meaning well, hoping that we 
are fulfilling our aims. Camping as an 
educational and social force is too 
powerful, too valuable to be left to us 
if we do not utilize its potential. 

We have not realized fully that we 
have in our camping hands something 
unique, mysteriously simple, profoundly 
complex. We don’t need to search for 
slick new techniques nor for old tech¬ 
niques with new labels. All that is 
required, and it sounds too simple, is 
to actually succeed in doing what we 
have always claimed to be doing. This 
is much more difficult than groping for 
new techniques, but it is the true 
answer. We must either make good on 
our old claims about values or step 
aside. 

Children and youth come to us at a 
malleable age. The attitudes, habits, 
values that we inculcate will shape 
their lives and, in turn, the future of 
this country. For the children who 
come to our camps today will be run¬ 
ning this country in the year 2000. 

By recognizing and nurturing the 
individuality of each child, by helping 
them to meet each day’s living on a 
full, rich and adequate basis, we can 
best prepare them to meet the un¬ 
knowns of their later lives. 

As we contemplate the magnitude of 
our task, it is an awesome responsibility 
that we take on, but also a tremendous 
opportunity. _• 


120 


Canadian Camping 



TO LIVE 

"in hearts we hare behind is not to die." 


I hi* death on February 14. 1966 of Miss Dais L. 

Gass, Past-President of the Canadian Camping Associa¬ 
tion. Past-President of the Quebec Camping Association, 
and former owner and director of Memphremagog 
Camp for Girls in the Eastern Townships of Quebec, 
brought to a close a lifetime of dedication and service 
to Canadian Camping. 

Because “Canadian Camping” believes its tribute 
to so widely-known and beloved a person as Miss Gass should include expressions 
of appreciation from several individuals who knew her at different times and in 
different places, we asked several of them to share their remembrances. 

“When camp leaders gather in conference, comradeship and gaiety invari¬ 
ably combine to lighten even the most serious deliberations. So it was in the 
earliest days of our Association. The camp leaders of twenty years ago were a 
co-operative band of pioneers who enjoyed getting together to plan and play. 
One, who stands out in memory as a blithe and effervescent spirit, was Dais Gass 
of Montreal. She was the second President of the Canadian Camping Association 
from 1946-49, succeeding our first outstanding President, Taylor Statten. 

Born in Nova Scotia, a graduate of Mount Allison University in New Bruns¬ 
wick, Dais went to Montreal as a teacher in Trafalgar Girls* School. Later she 
was Personnel worker for the T. Eaton Company. Always happy when working 
with young people, she was enthusiastic and untiring in her job, but still found 
time to lead a C.G.I.T. group in her church and do club and camp work as a 
volunteer in the YWCA. 

Realizing that camp work was becoming her major interest, Dais organized 
her own Camp Memphramagog in 1946 with a small group of girls to whom she 
was affectionately known as “Kolali”, interpreted “Friend”. During her twenty- 
three years as Director, she had the satisfaction of seeing her venture succeed 
beyond her dreams. In 1959 Camp Memphramagog was sold to the United 
Church and is now run as a boys’ camp. 

As President of the Canadian Camping Association her sphere of influence 
widened and her editorials in the early camp “Bulletins” were always forthright 
and challenging. To quote from one: 

‘We, who are in this camping movement in Canada, are in it o! our own 
choice. We envisage it as a great and progressively powerful force in the lives 
of Canadian children. These children from the Atlantic to the Pacific, rich and 
poor alike, have a claim upon us. That claim is that they deserve tin* best we 
can give them in effort, leadership and progressive methods. We sink or swim 
together! Let us swim!* 

Dais Gass has taken her place among a well-loved group of camp pioneers, 
whom we are proud to honour.” 

—Mary S. Edgar. 

Honorary President, 

Canadian Camping Association 



Toronto, Canada, Jane 1966 


121 




“Dais L. Gass was an energetic crusader for higher standards in camping 
and expended her efforts unceasingly to enhance the cause of camping in the 
eves of the public. During her years in the camping movement, she endeared 
herself to thousands of campers and staff members. Her keen love of the out-of- 
doors, her respect for all living things, and her sympathetic understanding of 
young people gave camping one of its finest leaders. 

No one who ever knew and worked with Miss Gass will ever forget her 
tremendous enthusiasm, her keen sense of humour, her insatiable thirst for 
learning and, most of all, her warmth of heart. Endowed with an inimitable 
ability to be amiable with the great or the small, she enriched the lives of all who 
had the privilege of being associated with her. Indeed her philosophy of life 
and living may well be expressed in the following words: 

7 believe in the wonder of the out-of-doors, in the inspiration of 
the stars, and the allurement of life in the open. 

1 believe in the strength of the hills, in the silence of the night, in 
the music of the birds and the trees. 

1 believe also, that my body was made for action, that my mind was 
made for thinking, and that my heart was made for loving, in unison 
with the life of nature. 

1 believe that to laugh and to sing, to swim and to walk, to study 
and to play, to eat and to be happy , to be kind and free to grow strong 
and good, is my right. 

I believe, too , that to be happy I must be good, that to be worthy 
I must be kind . 

/ believe that happiness and. lasting peace are mine, as I live in the 
atmosphere of kindness so near to me in the life of the out-of-doors.* ” 

—Frances M. Kelly, 

Executive Secretary , 

Quebec Camping Association. 

• • • • 

“We have lost a good friend in Dais Gass. She was a grand person and a 
friend who will not be forgotten, one who will be remembered forever by 
thousands of girls who were fortunate enough to have known her, in schools, in 
clubs, and particularly in her own Camp Memphremagog, in the Eastern Town¬ 
ships of Quebec. 

Dais inspired confidence wherever she went. It seemed to be one of her 
greatest assets. One could not be with her very long without looking forward to 
anything which might come up. Her appearance alone gave one confidence. 
Her hearty laugh was a treat to hear. 

Dais worked hard for the Canadian Camping Association, spending practi¬ 
cally full time on the affairs of the G.C.A. for at least a year. Indeed she devoted 
so much time during the early organization years that many people worried about 
her own camp. But in spite of it ail, her camp opened and carried on with great 
success. The Canadian Camping Association was well under way and a camping 
association of our own in Quebec province had been organized, with the neces¬ 
sary roots in most of our other Canadian provinces. 


122 


Canadian Camping 



Dais thought always of others. It was my privilege to see she was “moved” 
from the Montreal Convalescent Home to the Griffith McConnell Home. 
Although her health had been very poor during the last few years, she spent the 
whole time during the trip asking questions about others and about my own 
particular interests. After moving in she was soon busy, with very little time for 
herself. 

We can never fully explain our feelings in words because mere words are 
inadequate, nor can we express as we could wish our deepest thoughts. Let us 
then say in farewell that it has been a rare privilege to have known our friend 
Dais Gass, a camper who made a deep impression on our Canadian Camping 
movement and on so many individual campers.” 

—Kenneth H. Murray. 

Past President, 

Quebec Camping Association 

• • • • 


“In the passing of Dais L. Gass we have lost a good friend and the Canadian 
Camping Association is without one of its strong supporters. 

There are so many memories of Dais but perhaps for me the years when 
she was President of C.C.A. are the most vivid. They were difficult times because 
the Executive was determined to have our Association become a National body 
separated from the American Camping Association. Imagination, courage and 
firmness characterized our President and she had a strong image of what C.C.A. 
should be and do. 

Dais was wonderful with campers; several times I sat in her living room at 
Camp Memphramagog while campers came in one after another to talk over a 
problem with their beloved ‘Kolah*. They always went away feeling there was 
a comforting solution. Dais had great and unfailing patience and sympathy in 
her dealings with them. 

We shall all miss Dais but as long as we have memories her spirit will hover 
over those of us who knew her. In the history of the Canadian Camping Associa¬ 
tion, Dais will be remembered always as one of the most effective pioneers in 
Canadian Camping.” 

—Nan Vail. 

Past President , 

Canadian Camping Association. 

• • • • 


Within the past several years I have 
noted with interest and with keen satis¬ 
faction the greatly increased support 
enjoyed by the Canadian Camping 
Association. The Executive, now 
centred in British Columbia, has on 
other occasions centred in Alberta, 
Manitoba, Ontario and Quebec. 


I first met Dais Gass at a Canadian 
Camping Association Executive meet¬ 
ing. This was early in 1949 and Dais 
had a great vision that this Association 
would gain support from National firms 
and from governmental sources if we 
could become identifiable as a truly 
Canadian Association. Working out the 


1'or onto, Canada, June 1966 


123 



details of the first official charter of the 
Canadian Camping Association, Dais 
chaired meetings attended by a group 
of persons, many of whom are listed 
now among the past presidents of the 
Ontario. Quebec and Canadian Camp¬ 
ing Associations. 

It was due largely to Dais Gass’ 
inspirational leadership that camping 
people from Ontario and Quebec held 
meetings in Montreal. Toronto and at 
Kingston, Ontario, to come to grips 
with the responsibility of making the 
Canadian Camping Association into an 
effective functioning national organiza¬ 
tion. Closely related to this project 
was the development of the Camping 
Magazine. I remember vividly travel¬ 


ling to Kingston with Mary S. Edgar, 
the first editor of our Canadian Camp¬ 
ing Magazine to meet under Dais Gass’ 
chairmanship, and to lay the early 
foundations for the Association which 
had so long been Dais’ dream. 

Now. I think of Dais Gass, not only 
as an enthusiast, but as a visionary and 
an idealist. 1 count myself very fortu¬ 
nate to have been among those who 
worked with her on her great dream 
for the G.C.A. and who now experi¬ 
ence the joy of seeing that dream come 
true. 

W. E. (Ted) Yard, 

Past President, 

Canadian Camping Association 


FROM THE PROVINCES . . . 


Our National President, Mrs. Lome 
E. Brown , was in Toronto for a day 
— April 21 st — cn route to Ottawa 
to attend a meeting of the National 
Advisory Council on Fitness and Ama¬ 
teur Sport. Eleven new members have 
been appointed and May has been 
asked to extend her term of service for 
another year. She was able to look in 
on the O.C.A. Annual Meeting but. 
unfortunately, her flight to Ottawa was 
scheduled too early for her to remain 
to dinner. 

• • • 

Leadership Training is occupying the 
attention of the Alberta Camping Asso¬ 
ciation , too. Centres used to date for 
the training of Playgrounds, Day Camp 
and Camp personnel arc Banff, Red 
Deer, Cam rose and Pine Lake. 

• • • 

The past few weeks have been espe¬ 
cially busy ones for the Ontario Camp¬ 


ing Association. There was, ol course, 
the Annual Meeting on April 21st at 
the Constellation Hotel near Toronto’s 
Malton Airport. After a delicious dinner 
and the usual business, Mr. David L. 
Tough, Superintendent of Secondary 
Schools for North York, showed some 
fascinating pictures of people and life 
in Russia today. Since he spent several 
weeks in that country, he was able to 
speak with insight and understanding. 
His pictures undoubtedly gave new 
dimensions to his audience’s conception 
of Russia and the Russian people and 
we wish every C.C.A. member could 
have shared in this experience. 

O.C.A. is having a contest to select 
an appropriate Crest Insignia. 

Setting up O.C.A. archives is under 
way; Margaret Govan is Chairman of 
the Committee and, come September, 
Mrs. Shirley Hall will act as part time 
secretary. Members arc asked to send 
in material of an historical nature 
about their camps. 


124 


Canadian Camming 




Other things bubbling, too, are word 
of new Life Jackets coming on the 
market and some interesting new films 
but of these “more later”, probably in 
tlie form of articles in “Canadian 
Camping”. 

On May 9th—which will be long 
past when you read this—Dr. Harry 
and Adele Ebbs are showing slides and 
movies of their recent trip to Camp 
Tonakeia at Avadi. Madras, South 
India—and these we must see. You do 
know, don’t you, that Camp Tonakeia 
is a year-round centre for Girls and 
Boys for camping and convalescence? 

• • • 

From Ontario our thoughts go to 
the Province of Quebec. When we 
were in Montreal March 25 and 26, 
we talked to some of the Provincial 
Camping Association people—the 
President, Bob Lazanik, Frances M. 
Kelly, Executive Secretary and Mrs. 
N. D. Demetclin, Public Relations. We 
were unable to contact Ken Murray. 

Actually we were there in response 
to an invitation from the Carling Com¬ 
pany who gave a reception and dinner 
on Friday evening in honour of Mr. J. 
Oscar Houde, the 1966 winner of the 
Carling Quebec Conservation Trophy. 
Presented annually by the Quebec 
Wildlife Federation, it was created in 
1956 to honour “the individual who, in 
the opinion of the judges, has con¬ 
tributed most to the conservation of 
forest, field and stream in the Province 
of Quebec”. Mr. Houde is a public 
relations officer with the Hydro-Quebec 
head office in Montreal and has re¬ 
ceived a series of honours over the years 
for his active dedication to all phases 
of conservation work in the province. 

Presentation of the prestige trophy to 
Mr. Houde was made on the stage of 
the Montreal Show Mart on March 
26th before a capacity crowd attending 


the 22nd annual Sportsman’s Show. 
Making the presentation was Emile 
Lamourcux, 1st Vice-President of the 
Quebec Wildlife Federation, and Mur¬ 
ray MacLean, Montreal Manager for 
the sponsoring Carling Company. 

A charter member of the Canadian 
Public Relations Society, Mr. Houde in 
1963 received the president’s medal for 
over 20 years of conservation work. He 
is also an associate member of the 
Outdoor Writers of Canada. 

• • 9 

We hear— 

that the officers for the New found' 
land and Labrador Camping Associa¬ 
tion are: 

Honorary President — 

Hon. G. A. Frecker, 

Minister of Provincial Affairs, 
Confederation Building. 

St. John’s, Nfkl. 

President (acting) — 

Major D. W. Rea, 

Salvation Army, 

Provincial Youth Secretary, 

2 Springdale St., 

St. John’s, Nfld. 

See ret a ry-'I 're usurer — 

Miss Marjorie Ball, 

Executive Director, YWCA, 
Military Road, 

St. John’s, Nfld. 

The Association has not yet actually 
become affiliated with the Canadian 
Camping Association but this is to 
welcome them as a new Association 
and hope that very soon they’ll join 
“the family”. 

• • • 

And now before we write “30” do 
you suppose that when the autumn 
issue of “Canadian Camping” comes 
of! the press the column “From the 
Provinces” will have something in it 
from every provincial association? Only 
you can make that possible. 


Toronto , Canada , June I960 


125 


THE CAMPER 

OH! THE CAMPER 


Address by Don Groff to the 1966 Annual 
Meeting of the Canadian Camping Associa¬ 
tion. Mr. Groff is Associate General Secre¬ 
tary and Director of Camping , Kitchener - 
Waterloo YMCA. He is also Chairman of 
the Editorial Committee of “Canadian 
Cam ping”. 


One of my camping responsibilities is the 
direction of a girls' camp. So in my remarks 
now I shall refer to the camper as “he” and 
“his”, which is just a matter of editorial 
license and in no way represents discrimina¬ 
tion between the sexes. 

Behind that pile of accounts; 

Under that stack of program 
schedules: 

Beyond that cluster of stall* pre¬ 
occupied with a hootenanny; 

—There you might find—a camper! 

Today and at many other similar 
conferences, we have — analyzed his 
personality and behaviour; directed his 
world; determined his programme: 
manipulated his resources; and even 
predicted his future. 

The wonder of it is that we did it 
all without him. Not once did we con¬ 
sult or involve him—this camper which 
occupies so much of our focus and is 
the reason for our existence as camps. 
Yet, some years from now, at various 
graduation exercises, we will hand it all 
over to him. We will give him this 
world to which we have denied him 
access—and we will tell him to “make 
a success of it” and to “make a better 
job of it than we adults have”. 

Some Questions 

This leads to the question: “Is there 
any room left for the camper?” As we 
become more involved in the complexi¬ 
ties of our society and the increasing 
organization within our camps, and as 


we become more sophisticated in our 
leadership training, there are some 
questions which haunt me. 

1. One of the first of these would be: 
"Arc ter so concerned about serving 
youngsters that we, as leaders and 
administrators, have become servants?” 
Do we indulge our campers?—do things 
for them rather than help them do 
things for themselves? 

An older man, with a younger com¬ 
panion, made his way along a roadway 
until they were faced with a wide 
chasm which barred their path. Almost 
at once, the older man began to con¬ 
struct a bridge to cross the gap. Puzzled 
by this action, since a more difficult 
alternate route was available, the 
younger of the two travellers ques¬ 
tioned his companion’s purpose. In 
reply the bridge-builder explained that 
somewhere back along the trail there 
would be a youth making his way to 
this spot. The bridge would make it 
easier for the youth to surmount the 
obstacle. How much better it would 
have been had the old man waited for 
the youth and taught him to build the 
bridge so that the skills learned, and 
the experience gained would serve him 
when next he faced such a challenge! 

Calculated Risks 

Not only do we tend to indulge our 
campers but I wonder if we over- 
protect them. We have become so con¬ 
cerned about safety for those assigned 


126 


Canadian Camping 


to our charge that we sometimes create 
rules and regulations for their own 
sake. We are in danger of losing the 
challenge and adventure which our 
children, especially the older ones, 
require. We have not fully learned to 
utilize the concept of “calculated risk”. 
Much of our camping activity, and life 
itself for that matter, is filled with risk. 
Our task as camp leaders is to calculate 
the degree and kind of risk for these 
and then to provide for its eventuality 
instead of building up restrictions to 
prevent risk. 

If I might use a personal example; 
the camp I direct has a lengthy, rocky 
shoreline with steep approaches. It is 
impossible to seal off the area, and 
we were faced with the alternatives of 
imposing rigid rules about staying away 
from the water’s edge and docks, or of 
providing some safeguards. Our feeling 
as a staff was that no child coming to 
camp should be deprived of watching- 
waves break on the shore; or of casting 
a fishing line off a dock : or of catching 
the glow from a sun setting across a 
lake. The answer was to provide a shore 
patrol continuously during activity and 
free periods during the daytime hours 
—and we did not encroach upon the 
work of other staff members so that 
their assignments were not fulfilled. 

2. Another question which haunts 
me: Are our staff, and wc ourselves , 
so insecure in our personalities that we 
cannot be real and honest about our - 
selves ?—or dare we not permit our 
campers to be so, either? In a world 
of insensitivity between people and with 
the existence of great barriers to inter¬ 
personal communication, how much 
do we attempt to “stamp out stereo¬ 
types” of socially acceptable behaviour? 
Another of my camping responsibilities 
is in the field of church camping, and 
I fear that often this concept of pro¬ 
gramme and influence for prc-dctcr- 
mined behaviour is the overriding moti¬ 
vation for our existence. 

Is there “respect for honest doubt” 


in our camps? Do our children and 
stall feel comfortable in expressing the 
questions and doubts about their reli¬ 
gious beliefs and philosophy of life? 
Again, I am very conscious of the com¬ 
ments made by one of our girl leadcrs- 
in-training who told us of the fact that 
at home when she discussed her feel¬ 
ings, her parents refused to be drawn 
into discussion and chided her for her 
preoccupation with them. “At camp, 
she said, “was the first time she felt 
she could give expression to these 
thoughts and feel respect for them.” 

Who makes decisions at camp? Who 
determines the program? Arc campers 
involved in determining their activities? 
—the rules they will live by?—the pro¬ 
cedures governing the community that 
camps represent? 

Is there an atmosphere of trust in 
camp? Does the “law of love” per¬ 
meate relationships among campers? 
among staff members? between campers 
and staff? between the director and the 
rest of the staff? 

How much do we fear conflict in 
camp? Do we seek “smooth-running” 
operations? We know that learning 
takes place by means of the conflict 
which results from confrontation be¬ 
tween people. Camp offers excellent 
opportunity for such learning. If cabin 
groups are “running smoothly” however 
then nothing is happening between 
people. When you take nothing (0) 
from smoother—you get smother! 

3. Have ive become busy with busy¬ 
ness? Are daily schedules so filled that 
there is no time to pause? 

—to sense the wonders of the natural 
world; its serenity? — to hear sounds 
often missed in a time in history when 
we arc subjected to such constant and 
profused sounds that we unconsciously 
“tune” out much around us in every¬ 
day life? — to see sights, little things, 
which are often unnoticed and over¬ 
looked in hurry and bustle? 

Is our chief concern to produce 
activity? Arc schedules the products of 


Toronto y Canada, June 1966 


127 


campers-—or are campers the pawns of 
schedules? 

4. Do we truly respect children? 

-as individuals with personal worth 
and rights and not as junior adults. Are 
we prepared to allow them to be chil¬ 
dren? Do wc help them to self-aware¬ 
ness and the development of their 
potential? 

5. Do we tram campers to be re¬ 
sourceful? 

As leisure time increases, we surely 
must be helping children to appreciate 
it and to develop skills for utilizing it 
creatively. Prefabricated craft projects, 
and skills taught as an end in them¬ 
selves rather than utilized in projects, 
will not assist youngsters to be active 
participants. 

The learning potential of every 
activity must be recognized and ex¬ 
ploited. It took me several seasons to 
realize that with the heavy use of 
dehydrated foods for our tripping pro¬ 
gram, the only thing we were teaching 
our campers about living in the out¬ 
doors was “to add water and heat”. 
There is a place, of course, for these 
dehydrates, but we must be careful that 
our camping experiences expose young¬ 
sters to new and satisfying interests. 

Then, too, when we speak of being 
resourceful we must be certain that wc 
are training youngsters in proper use 
of natural and personal resources. 
Surely, there is no better lesson in 
stewardship than to develop an appre¬ 
ciation and respect for the plenty with 
which this land has been endowed. 

6. Are the skills and potential of our 
staff misplaced — or misused? 

At a conference several high school 
age staff members from one of the 
camps represented expressed their frus¬ 
tration with the fact that while being 
trained for one job—that of working 
with children—they could not tackle it 
because they were kept occupied with 
the maintenance problems of the camp. 

Directors, usually the most capable 
and effective staff member in the camp, 


are often separated from campers and 
even staff by administrative details 
instead of being occupied with staff 
development and personal relationships. 

Another facet of this problem con¬ 
cerns our training, for while training in 
skills and camp routine is reasonably 
well done, our staff arc not well trained 
in understanding and effecting inter¬ 
personal relationships. 

By way of clarification, I am not 
saying that organization for the camp 
community is not necessary, for organi¬ 
zation is the way by which people 
function while living together. Nor can 
we ignore tending to the business affairs 
for our camps—for if we don’t, our 
creditors soon will. And by all means, 
we must expand our knowledge and 
understanding about people, behav iour, 
and relationships. Our Kitchener- 
Waterloo YMCA Camps operate a 
two year resident C.I.T. training pro¬ 
gramme and I would have to deny the 
validity of that programme if I did 
not believe in a professional approach 
to camp leadership. 

Retain Perspective 

But we must retain perspective. These 
facets of camp administration must be 
our servants and tools, not our masters. 
They often become the latter because 
wc want them to. It is so much more 
comfortable to preoccupy oneself with 
budgets instead of coming to grips with 
the real tasks of camp life. We can 
rationalize that we are doing our job 
rather than facing the disturbing chal¬ 
lenge of “confrontation between 
people”. 

“The Camper—Oh! the Camper 
Sitting by a stream, un-ending. 

Bind not his course in life 
With camp and staff un-bending! 
Before his eyes unfolds the sight 
His senses, more awaring. 

Cloud not that vision, nor that light 
Which leads him to the daring. 
Dissect him not with learned eye 
page 140 please 


128 


Canadian Camping 



NOW FOR 

CBNTFNARy 

by Kirk Wipper, 

Director, Camp Kandalore. 


Have you considered how your camp 
could celebrate Canada’s hundredth 
birthday? Would you leave some room 
in 1966 for centenary preparations? 
You are all aware of the Canadian 
Camping Association’s Centenary Jour¬ 
ney, but have you considered that your 
camp might mark 1967 by your own 
camp project? For example, you could 
set aside a section of your woodlot 
which contains the best variety of trees 
or plants, and call it an Arboretum. 
You could, with campers and staff 
erect a cairn, built of one hundred 
field stones from your campsite. With 
some research, ten different evergreens 
could be located and planted in a 
favorite camp area. A general reforesta¬ 
tion project of one hundred trees could 
be established in the camp area as a 
worthy monument to 1967. A fine 
nature trail with one hundred points 
of special interest might be designed. 
Using natural materials, a magnificent 
centenary symbol could be designed 
and placed in a special camp setting. 
If you have an unusual natural habitat, 
efforts might be made to mark it and 
protect it against any kind of deteriora¬ 
tion from careless use. Similarly your 
campsite could, by arrangement with 
Lands and Forests be made into a wild¬ 
life sanctuary with a name that could 
reflect the spirit of Centennial Year. 

Many other ideas can be brought for¬ 
ward depending on your camp philoso¬ 
phy, theme, environment, programme 
emphasis, age and experience of camp¬ 
ers. As an example, one project which 
will receive special attention in 1967 is 
the official opening of a canoe museum 


at a camp near Dorset. Because the 
camp emphasizes canoeing and canoe 
tripping, it was logical that a national 
canoe collection would be undertaken. 
Through constant use of canoes, camp¬ 
ers and staff became increasingly aware 
of the variations in design and struc¬ 
ture of that craft. With extensive dis¬ 
cussion and reading, it became clear 
that the canoe was an instrument of 
history, a conveyor for exploration, a 
means of defense, a tool for commerce 
and an object for unique modern recre¬ 
ational pursuits. The canoe was a craft 
which reflected the nature of its 
environment; the materials of construc¬ 
tion and the design revealed the pecu¬ 
liar characteristics of the region where 
the canoe was used. The project has 
been continuing for more than ten 
years but many notable gaps still exist 
in the collection. Generally the canoes 
of the frontier have been discarded as 
derelicts on some lonely shore, or filled 
with soil for a cottage garden. Conse¬ 
quently this report also represents an 
urgent appeal to notify the writer of 
the whereabouts of any of yesterday’s 
canoes. Before long it will be impossible 
to locate some of the historic canoes 
which arc needed to make the collec¬ 
tion more comprehensive and useful. 

The collection now includes the fol¬ 
lowing: a Klondike or Freight canoe, 
a 16 foot birch bark (recent), a dug- 
out, a lapstrake, a Rice Lake, a 16 foot 
cedar soil, a 16 foot flush batten, a 20 
foot special racing shell, a butternut 
kayak, a 12 foot trapper, an “Indian 
Maid”, and a Tcmiskaming pointer. 

The canoe centre may be seen, 
studied, photographed, at any time by 
campers or staff who are interested in 
canoes and canoemanship. The display 
is only valuable as a Centenary Cele¬ 
bration if it is visited extensively, espe¬ 
cially by those who will give leadership 
in canoeing—an activity which is so 
typically Canadian. 

-• 


Toronto, Canada, June 1966 


129 


by Margaret Gouan, 
Director , Camp Onawa . 


WHAT'S COOKING TO-NIGHT? 


These evening programmes vary in 
difficulty: also in the age interest. Any 
programme, no matter how simple, has 
to have some thought and pre-planning 
—even if it doesn’t work out as 
planned 1 (Sometimes the ‘impulse’ 
plans are much better.) As the pro¬ 
gramme grows in complexity, the plan¬ 
ning and execution and cleaning up 
afterwards may require volunteers for 
each job or a committee. The latter 
may be a cabin group as this is often 
a more simple method of organization. 
Suggestions can be combined or simpli¬ 
fied. The more the campers can be 
involved in making suggestions, plan¬ 
ning and executing the projects, the 
greater the learning process. 

There must be variety in evening 
programmes and also balance. A major 
event needs two or three simple pro¬ 
grammes, both before and afterwards. 
Weather has a great deal to do with 
the type of programme. Certain pro¬ 
grammes can be adapted for wet, cold, 
rainy or mosquito-y nights when you 
have to go inside! At camp the motto 
should be: do it outside if at all pos¬ 
sible. and plan to make it possible as 
often as you can. 

Cabin Group Activities 

Walks: always with a goal even 
although it may be a simple goal like 
picking flowers or collecting stones; 
berry picking; exploring a river (wear 
old sneakers so it doesn’t matter if you 
step into the water) ; a visit to a farm 
(ask the farmer first) ; climbing a hill: 
exploring caves; a waterfall; a‘haunted 
house’; a site of local interest or a local 
business; the fire ranger’s tower, etc. 
Take a ‘uke’ along sometimes, and a 
snack. Good walking shoes and com¬ 


fortable socks are necessary. Take flash¬ 
lights if it is an evening walk. A first 
aid kit and ten cents for a telephone 
call in case of need. Length of the walk 
must be suited to age and strength of 
campers. 

Boating: practising strokes; drifting; 
exploring: gunwale bobbing, etc. 

Swimming: going off to swim ‘some¬ 
where different*. Life guard and safety- 
rules go along, too. 

Cook-outs for supper or a bedtime 
snack are excellent means of teaching 
campcraft. The snack allows more time 
for experimentation since the campers 
are not so impatient about the eating! 
It can be as simple as toast and a 
beverage, or a complicated dessert. 
(Reflector ovens can be introduced this 
way.) A taffy pull or corn popping arc 
very satisfactory. 

A cabin camp fire is fun with songs, 
stories, discussions. Older campers like 
to talk about dating, parents, rules, 
vocations, religion, current events, con¬ 
versation, etc. 

Special projects of special interest: 
Building something, be it a raft or a 
dock or a tree house; painting murals 
for a cabin or the recreation room; 
a sketching group; puppets, jewelry; 
painting the mail box; mending hymn 
books; cutting steps in a bank: clearing 
a path. Fishing. Collecting specimens 
for the museum; stars. Reading a play 
or a story; preparing a skit; learning or 
making up songs; playing games which 
will vary from table tennis to ‘house’ 
and crazy eights. 

One cabin can challenge another 
cabin to some game. 

And the counsellor can always be 
surprised. I took a number of twelve- 


130 


Canadian Camping 


year-olds for a walk, and they played 
‘bears’, an invention of their own, in 
the bracken for an hour while I sat on 
a fence post and meditated! 

Section Programmes 

Organized games: the number on a 
team doesn’t seem to matter. Games 
can be played progressively-with twenty 
minutes to half an hour; then move on 
to another. We have found rounders, 
prisoners base: touch football, and 
broom hockey all go over with girls on 
a cool evening. 

Progressive table games: If you have 
a cupboard of games such as lotto, 
snakes and ladders, parchesi, pick-up- 
sticks, jacks, etc., well and good. But 
games can be easily improvised such 
as balancing matches on the top of a 
pop bottle (no cap). (Each person is 
given ten matches and takes a turn in 
rotation; any matches knocked over by 
the player become his property. The 
first out is winner.) 

Beans can be tossed into milk bottles 
or muffin tins, or transferred from 
saucer to saucer with a drinking straw 
and suction. A great deal can be done 
with ping-pong balls, too. 

Play party games: These work out 
with any age group if the games are 
picked carefully to suit the age and 
sex. (A new game should be tried out 
with counsellors or a small group first.) 
Good leadership is required. Relays; 
Poor House; Hot Potato; Bottle Snatch; 
Grows and Cranes; Cops and Robbers, 
etc. A good games book will provide 
dozens. Paper and pencil games are an 
occasional change for older campers. 

A roast: be it wiener, marshmallow, 
corn, hamburger (with juniors make it 
the evening meal). The programme 
must be planned very carefully. Any 
game if not played by all, must be 
easily visible and fun to watch. (T.V. 
programmes during the winter months 
can provide some ideas. Poetry reading; 
accordion or mouth organ solos; sing¬ 


songs, etc. A well-told story—and that 
takes real effort on the teller’s part, as 
well as adequate preparation. A skit. 
The check list must include: fire build¬ 
ing, fuel if necessary, food, equipment, 
programme and how to get there and 
back. 

A roast at a distance where partici¬ 
pants have to paddle or walk home 
under the stars, and come into camp 
quietly—so as not to waken the others 
—adds excitement. Non-paddlers can 
always be taken by rowboat. 

A floating picnic is a possibility too. 
Paddling or swimming to music: A 
record player with an amplifier is 
almost a ‘must’, although music carries 
over the water. The canoes will just 
drift. Swimming can only be done on 
warm, light evenings, and is of short 
duration. 

Hunts: treasure hunts; scavenger 
hunts (a nature one is good) ; counsel¬ 
lor hunt; orienteering; paper chase (we 
use wool; it’s tidier). 

Folk dancing and singing games: 
these need to be learned at some other 
scheduled time; good for a wet summer! 

Parties: indoors or out. Juniors and 
intermediates love to dress up, so a 
masquerade is usually in order. Seniors 
prefer something a little more sophisti¬ 
cated. Refreshments and games and/or 
dancing should be suited to the theme. 
Mad hatter party; knights of the round 
table; cavemen; Indians; Noah’s ark; 
hoboes; beatnicks, etc. The crafts 
department must be prepared for a 
mass descent, and arrangements have 
to be made for cleaning up afterwards. 
Music for the grand march must be on 
hand, and somebody to play or look 
after the record player. 

Juniors are often content to dress up 
and be admired by their counsellors. 

Interest groups: Half a dozen activi¬ 
ties going on—tennis, crafts, canoeing, 
listening to music, walking, sailing, etc. 
Campers go where they please and a 
few counsellors are available for pick- 


Toronio , Canada , June 1966 


13! 


ing up stragglers, as well as the activity 
counsellors. 

Camp as a whole 

Talent or skit night. A play with a 
party for the whole cast afterwards 
attended by all first-nighters 1 

Special games where everybody goes 
to cheer. 

Wide games such as: settlers and 
Indians, capture the flag, run-sheep- 
run, flash-light tag, sardines, hide-and- 
seek, etc. 

Birthday, Hallowe’en or Christmas 
party with a present for everybody 
(each camper and counsellor draws a 
name from the box. We have found 
that juniors are apt to be disappointed 
if the present is not ‘real’ and so we 
let counsellors draw their names. No 
present can cost anything; it must be 
made). Tables can be decorated; games 
and songs should be appropriate to the 
occasion. 

Slides or movies related to camp; 
don’t take city movies to the camp 
setting. 

Formal Campfire: the same as for 
a section but more careful planning 
and preparation; possibly some ritual. 

Antiphonal singing with half the 
camp in boats, the other half on land, 
and a song leader with each of the 
groups. 

A hootenanny; a formal concert; 
listening to records. 

The following programmes take a 
great deal of advance preparation and 
include supper ... or possibly two 
meals. 

Find your supper: Camp is divided 
into workable groups and ‘hunt for 
your supper’ clues prepared for each 
of them. The counsellors have supper 
ready at the end of the trail. If each 
group takes names such as hoboes, ship¬ 
wrecked mariners, mountain climbers, 
gypsies, etc., the supper and programme 
can be planned round these themes 
(One group of hoboes ended up their 


evening playing ‘oldmaid* on the camp 
road.) 

All Nations Night: with floats (boats 
make good ones) representing various 
nations: add skits at the end of the 
programme. 

Country Fair: with suitable competi¬ 
tions: nail driving; flower collections, 
and arrangements; ‘animulc’ show; 
driftwood exhibit. Let the imagination 
go to town. 

Sunday School Picnic: one cabin 
arranges families with suitable names 
(Dr. Pill, etc.). Each camper draws a 
name and must take over that age and 
personality. Picnic games are run of! 
and so junior campers, counsellors, etc., 
may find themselves in the same race! 
Races should be funny ones. A ‘choir 
concert’ can be held afterwards. 

HV go Western: Rodeo with or with¬ 
out horses; horse shoe pitching; hunting 
for gold; pony express race with broom¬ 
stick horses and obstacles. Chuck wagon 
supper. Songs and campfire. 

Pageant of local history. 

A mock trial if a suitable occasion 
arises. 

Olympic day; sports day; water- 
sports day; campcraft day; track meet 
(indoor or outdoor) ; pioneer day; expo 
day. 

Pirate day: a huge treasure hunt 
which involves collecting a map. The 
pieces are all at the ends of trails 
and these may require walking, sailing, 
rowing, canoeing. This requires a 
tremendous amount of advance plan¬ 
ning to have a camp on the move, 
proper supervision, and trails of vary¬ 
ing difficulty. Forfeits are paid by the 
losing team members after trial (?). 
These forfeits must be checked and 
censored. 

* Poor House is a form of stage coach 

played in couples. One couple in 

the poor house wishes to change 

residence. 

page 142 please 


132 


Canadian Camping 



OUR CENTENARY JOURNEY 

by John Latimer, 

Chairman Centenary Journey Committee, 

Canadian Camping Association. 


Can you visualize a "National Camp¬ 
fire”? . . . or should I say hundreds 
and hundreds of Campfires, lit at 
exactly the same time, on the same 
day in the summer of 1967 . . . with 
the same opening and closing used by 
everyone who participates? This is just 
one of many exciting projects being 
planned by the Centenary Journey 
Committee of the Canadian Camping 
Association as part of our overall Cen¬ 
tennial celebration. 

Of course, our biggest and most 
enterprising project is the mapping and 
charting of the main routes used by the 
early voyageurs, with the end product 
being a National Publication of all such 
routes. The program is being led and 
directed by personnel from camps from 
coast to coast . . . thousands of boys 
and girls from every type of camp will 
be actively involved on Canada’s water¬ 
ways in 1967, re-living our heritage 
and possibly for the first time making 
it come alive. Isn’t it a shame that the 
history now being taught in our schools 
is presented in such a dull, unimagina¬ 
tive style? . . . Possibly C.C.A. can do 
a little in helping to change this! ! 

Kindling the Flame 

Phe idea of this project was sparked 
about three years ago and the struggle 
to co-ordinate and nationalize the pro¬ 
gram was a long and sometimes dis¬ 
couraging one, but finally in March of 
this year, the Committee finally felt 
that the flame was now kindled. For in 
m id-March, a Conference of all Pro¬ 


vincial Chairmen was held in Toronto. 
For the first time, the ten leaders were 
able to sit down together and discuss a 
truly National “Centenary Journey”. 
From this Conference, new ideas and 
plans were formulated. The final and 
official routes were mapped and dis¬ 
cussed. A suggested “guideline” for the 
final publication was formulated . . . 
safety standards were developed . . . 
Rendezvous Points were established . . . 
and the idea of the “National Cen¬ 
tenary Campfire” was presented. With 
the co-operation and interest of all 
Directors, the campfires will be held in 
every camp in Canada. They will also 
be lit on every canoe trip . . . whether 
or not the trip is part of the official 
Centenary Journey. Such campfires will 
possibly be the climax to various two or 
three-day in-camp programs centering 
around the theme of Canada’s history 
and background. When one stops to 
count the number of children who will 
be involved in such programs, the mind 
staggers. At a specific time (probably 
early August, 1967), every Canadian 
boy and girl involved in a camp will 
be a part of a venture which crosses 
all Provincial boundaries, and covers 
this vast expanse from Newfoundland 
to British Columbia. 

As I mentioned earlier, the planning 
of this Journey has not been the easiest. 
Although the Centennial Commission 
has given our project some financial 
backing and recognition, it is my feel¬ 
ing that the administration in Ottawa 
is not convinced that we deserve their 


Toronto , Canada , June 1966 


133 


support. We arc not stressing speed 1 
We want our campers to take their 
time, explore the side routes, research 
the historical background of the area 
in which they are camping, and above 
all not forsake the danger factors. We 
art* not stressing material awards! We 
want our campers to take the trips 
simply to enjoy and become more 
appreciative of the countless rivers, 
lakes, portages and mountains which 
are part of Canada. 

Tell People 

The Commission has been somewhat 
reluctant to offer their support and for 
this reason the National Committee 
asks that every Camp Director who 
believes that this project has some 
merit, do his utmost to advise the 
public of our endeavours. For example, 
when each trip leaves from a camp, 
invaluable support and publicity can 
be gained if the Director contacts the 
local radio and TV station, as well as 
newspaper editors, informing them of 
the people involved and the areas to 
be covered. 

Many provinces have already started 
on their program. Nova Scotia, under 
the leadership of Ron lies, has evolved 
a program covering practically every 
water route in that province . . . (the 
portion covered in the National Cen¬ 
tenary Journey is only one small part 
of their overall program). Faye Ecc.lc- 
ston and Malcolm Hicklenton report 
from British Columbia that parts of 
their route will be covered by not only 
canoe and raft, but also horse and 
mule. Quebec, under the co-chairman¬ 
ship of Peter Van Wagner and Father 
Guy Allard, are planning many side 
trips beyond the Ottawa River. The 
Red Cross Water Safety Committee in 
P.E.I. is working very closely with our 
Chairman, Jim Stahr. and in New 
Brunswick, John Mur rant of the 
Department of Youth and Welfare has 
assured the National Committee of his 


interest and co-operation. Ontario has 
been one of the most active provinces 
to date, for practically all routes in that 
province have already been covered in 
exploratory trips. John Scott. Chair¬ 
man of Ontario’s Centenary Journey 
Committee, reports that campers and 
camps from his province have during 
1964 and 1965 spent close to $15,000 
from their own pocket-books. Doug 
Eaton of Memorial University is direct¬ 
ing Newfoundland’s portion of the 
project. Don Smith is responsible for 
the Alberta portion of the Journey, and 
Norman MacKenzie in Regina is chair¬ 
ing a most active committee in Sas¬ 
katchewan. The Manitoba Camping 
Association has given strong backing to 
its Chairman, Doug McEwen ... so 
you can see that every province has 
now set in motion the wheels to accom¬ 
plish a most unique and worthwhile 
project. 

The Centenary Journey promises to 
be one of the highlights in the history 
of the Canadian Camping Association. 
However, it needs the support and 
enthusiasm of everyone in this country 
who believes in camping . . . and above 
all, everyone who feels strongly about 
Canada. 

This is not just a program to start 
and stop in 1967. As a result of the 
countless number of trips, thousands of 
youngsters . . . soon to be our leaders 
. . . will gain an appreciation and 
interest in their country—lasting a life¬ 
time! The opportunities are unique— 
the experiences invaluable. 

The Centenary Journey, “In the 
steps of the Voyageurs”, needs your 
support. Won’t you join us? 



134 


Canadian Camping 



GEM MAKING 

by Bruno Morawetz, Ph.D 
Director, Camp Ponacka. 

“Proliferation” is a term which is 
not limited to the spread of nuclear 
weapons. Many critics inside and out¬ 
side the camping movement have laid 
the charge that camps are departing 
from the original purpose of camping. 
They feel that such activities as riflery, 
archery, crafts, drama, etc., should have 
no place in the camp program, since 
they can be done just as well in the 
city. There is some truth in what the 
critics say but they forget that some 
children will never be wild on wilder¬ 
ness living. Nor is it likely that they 
can all be redirected to enjoy a rugged 
outdoor experience. 

By having these “tamer” programs, 
many children will be introduced to 
outdoor life as a side-line which may 
in this way become a main line of 
enjoyment and accomplishment. These 
“tamer” activities may have very 
important results in instilling confi¬ 
dence in a less woodsy camper. If he 
excells in one of them, the confidence 
gained thereby will stimulate him to 
try other activities, for he no longer 
feels a “complete failure”. 

An Enthusiastic Response 

Gem-making, also known as lapidary, 
was introduced by our camp last sum¬ 
mer and it met a with very enthusiastic 
response. It too may start as a side¬ 
line. A boy may wish to make a neck¬ 
lace for his mother or a tie clip for his 
father. This leads him to take an inter¬ 
est in rocks and minerals and he begins 
to enjoy a hike which assumes a new 
purpose and meaning for him. He asks 
his counsellor for the names and quali¬ 
ties of certain stones, he learns some¬ 
thing about the geological formations 
which are rich in certain minerals. His 
powers of observation arc sharpened, 
lie learns to look and to observe. His 


curiosity will lead him to ask questions 
about growing and living things. Lap¬ 
idary may thus become a gateway to 
the wonders of nature. 

The desire to make a fine piece of 
jewelry will lead to some knowledge of 
rocks and minerals. The novice will 
soon learn that rocks are made of 
minerals, that there are three basic 
classes of minerals: metallic, non- 
metallic and rock-forming minerals. He 
will learn that most minerals end in 
“ite”, like apatite, calcite and flourite. 
He will find out that some minerals 
come to earth from outer space in the 
form of meteorites. His interest will be 
heightened when he learns that there 
are three main types of rocks: the 
igneous, the sedimentary and the meta- 
morphic. Each type of rock tells a great 
deal about its past history. 

Rocks will lead him into the fossil 
world. He will delight in finding a 
living fern similar to that which he 
may have found in fossilized form. 
When he is lucky he will find semi¬ 
precious stones, known as gems. He 
may not have too much trouble in 
finding various quartz gems like rose 
quartz, amethyst or rock crystal. 

To foster an interest and love for 
nature is a camp’s primary job and 
yet one of the most difficult to achieve. 
Our most successful experience came 
when we managed to hire a taxidermist 
as the camp naturalist. Taxidermy 
became a broad gateway to nature. It 
is not easy to find a taxidermist, but it 
is not too difficult to train any counsel¬ 
lor in lapidary, especially if he already 
possesses a good knowledge of rocks 
and minerals. 

In the last decade there has been a 
growing interest in minerology. Rock- 
hounds are on the increase. During the 
last few years the Bancroft “Gein- 
boree” has attracted visitors from many 
parts of Canada and the United States. 
One man explained to me why he is 
such a keen rockhound. He likes to take 
his family for drives on the weekend 
and during the many spring and fall 


Toronto , Canada , June 1966 


135 


weekends when there are no winter or 
summer sports, rockhounding provides 
an activity in which the entire family 
can take an interest. Neither sex nor 
age prevents anyone from fully enjoy¬ 
ing this pastime. Lapidary promotes an 
interest in rockhounding which is, in 
essence, a way of camping. While the 
snow covers the ground, the rockhound 
can be in his warm basement polishing 
and mounting his summer’s finds. 

Two Processes 

There arc basically two processes 
which can be employed for turning 
stones into jewels. The most common 
is tumbling. A tumbler is a bought or 
home-made drum which is turned by 
a small electric motor. The tumbler 
docs in two or three weeks what a 
river bed or ocean tides do in thousands 
of years. It tumbles the stones against 
each other until they become smooth. 
They acquire a lustre which makes 
them beautiful and irresistible to the 
beholder. 

Since it takes several weeks to tumble 
stones, a gem-maker is much to be pre¬ 
ferred for a lapidary camp program. 
A gem-maker is a machine which has 
a diamond cutting blade. Strangely 
enough, the blade will cut a hard rock 
but it will not cut the skin of a finger. 
Usually there is an attachment which 
serves as a vise. The stone to be cut is 
clamped in the vise and swung to the 
blade and in a matter of minutes the 
stone is cut to any desired size. The 
gem-maker has grinding and scratching 
wheels of varying size of coarseness. 
The cast iron lap wheel is used to 
make a smooth starting surface. This is 
followed by using the silicon carbide 
grinding wheel to shape the stone. The 
final touches are put on with a felt 
polishing wheel. The gem is too small 
to be held by hand. Therefore it is 
cemented to a round wood stick known 
as a dop stick. 

There arc many companies which 
specialize in gem-craft. They have sup¬ 
plies of templates and findings. Find¬ 


ings are the metal parts into which the 
gems are set. The range of jewelry find¬ 
ings is almost unlimited: necklaces, 
rings, bracelets, brooches, cufflinks, 
pendants, etc. A template is a piece of 
stiff plastic with holes to correspond 
with the various findings. As the grind¬ 
ing proceeds, the stone is continually 
compared to the hole in the template 
until it has the right shape and will fit 
into the jewelry finding. 

Gem-makers come in various sizes 
and prices. Ours cost around one hun¬ 
dred dollars and a quarter horsepower 
motor can be purchased for very little. 
It is a small investment considering 
that three or four persons can work on 
the gem-maker at one time. It serves as 
an excellent spare time activity. It can 
be placed in the out-of-doors if neces¬ 
sary. It was used in the evenings by 
counsellors who desired to bring a 
worthwhile self-made souvenir to their 
sweethearts. 

This summer the gem-maker will be 
part of the crafts programme, since an 
instructor is needed only at certain 
crucial stages. One of our hard-working 
sailing instructors told me that he found 
it a most relaxing pastime. 

There are a number of pamphlets 
and books available on the subject. 
The Shell Oil Company distributes a 
little pamphlet entitled “Let’s Collect 
Rocks”. The Ontario Department of 
Mines distributes Map 2103 on On¬ 
tario’s geology and principal minerals. 
The same department sells “Rocks and 
Minerals of Ontario”, known as Geo¬ 
logical Circular 13. The Pen-Reid Pub¬ 
lications of Campbcllford, Ontario, 
publish a quarterly magazine which 
seives all sectors of the rockhounding 
public. Lapidary supply houses adver¬ 
tise in this magazine and a few back 
copies of it would go a long way toward 
turning a greenhorn into a rockhound 
or lapidarist. 

As a camp activity, lapidary should 
not be looked upon as an end in itself. 
It will not (and ought not) appeal to 
all campers, but it will strike a very 


136 


Canadian Camping 


K & N TRAVEL SERVICE 

AIRLINE, STEAMSHIP AND 
TRAIN TICKETS 
HOTEL RESERVATIONS 
BAGGAGE AND FLIGHT INSURANCE 

157 Bay St. 

Toronto 1, Ontario - Tel. 366-0728 
AI»o Offices in Montreal & Winnipeg 


JARVIS PRODUCTS 

Formerly 

Oscar Pearson Enterprises 

Playground, Swimming Pool 
Water Conditioners 
Pumping Systems 
Equipment & Accessories 
Pye Transhailers 

- write for Catalogue - 
1870 Dundas Hwy. E. Cooksville 

277-4161 


responsive chord in some of them. To 
them it will make the out-of-doors 
much more meaningful and enjoyable. 
Once he is bitten by the bug, he will 
hanker to get outside with his rock 
hammer, chisel and haversack and he 
will enjoy outdoor cookery on his field 
trips. 

Since most of our youngsters live far 
from canoe routes, the carry over value 
of lapidary and geology as recreational 
activities are not as remote as they may 
appear at first. 


from page 114 

flict with the unnatural interests of 
man. 

Beyond the very practical considera¬ 
tions of food, water, clean air, and 
space there is a further benefit which 
may be called the enjoyment resource. 
An extraordinary amount of leisure is 
an imminent fact, and masses of people 
will have to shift from a work-oriented 
approach to life to one which will be 
leisure-based. Work will, in a sense, 
become a diversion. It follows that 
man’s search for satisfying, inspirational 
activity or simply for peace and free¬ 
dom will come in a large measure from 
the out-of-doors. It has been suggested 
that “if you would want inner peace, 
find it in solitude, not speed, and if 
you would find yourself, look to the 
Lord from which you came and to 
which you go”. The leisure age imposes 
another challenge on the camping 
movement, which is obligated to pro¬ 
vide experiences which will sene as 
foundations for the future. As difficult 
as the task may appear, it cannot be 
avoided or disregarded. Surely if the 
camping movement is to receive the 
respect of history, it must be in a large 
measure due to camping’s particular 
contribution in the broad implications 
of conservation and its related, sup¬ 
porting activities. 

— • 


FOR PERSONAL IDENTIFICATION 
OF CLOTHING 



WOVEN NAME TAPES 

3 doz. — $2.00 
6 doz. — $2.75 
12 doz. — $4.25 

PRINTED NAME TAPES 

6 doz. — $1 50 
12 doz. — 2.00 
24 doz. — 3.00 

Cashs Canada Labels Ltd 

Name Department 
BOX 116 BELLEVILLE, ONT. 


Toronto, Canada. June 1966 


131 















CAMP 


FIU)M A 

miVEOTOK'S IIIA Pi V 



From the Alberta Camping Association 
“Newsletter” 


A recipe for the future or How to Preserve Children: 

Take ... I large grassy field 

half a dozen children 

2 or 3 small dogs 

a pinch of brook and pebbles 

Mix children and dogs well together and put them in the field—stirring 
constantly. Pour brook over pebbles; sprinkle field with flowers: spread over all 
a deep blue sky and bake in the sun. When brown, remove and set to cool in a 
bathtub. • • 

It was eight year old Nancy’s second summer at camp and STILL she 
hadn’t managed to get her head under the water. A long-standing ear infection 
had made the doctor caution her mother that she was not to get water in it 
under any circumstances. Rut now the big day had dawned. The ear infection 
had cleared up and she was going to be allowed to get on with her swimming 
like all the other Juniors. 

Excitement was rife. Blowing bubbles, picking up stones from the bottom, 
counting fingers under water—all counsellor ruses to inspire confidence—these 
were no longer denied her. She was about to become One of the Gang! 

The moment came. In front of an enchanted audience of campers and stall 
she slipped ofT the end of the dock, closed her eyes, took a big gasp of air and 
slowly bent her knees until her head disappeared from sight. She rose, seconds 
later, spluttering and gasping, looking distinctly annoyed. 

“Well,” asked the spectators, as one, “how did you like it?” 

There was a moment’s pregnant pause. “Jee/e.” came the reply. “Is it ever 
crappy under there! You can’t even breathe!” 


— 1 9 6 7 — 

THE CENTENARY YEAR 
Will you be ready? 

What plans should you make this summer to celebrate Canada’s 
hund red th hi rthday ? 

SOME SUGGESTIONS: 


Nature 

*— Centenary Cairn, 100 stones 
(see Kirk Wippcr’s article) 
Arboretum 

Natural habitat 

History 

— A pageant 

Collecting local artifacts 
Pioneer Building 

Creation of Symbol 

Canoeing 

Centenary Canoe Trip 


138 


Canadian Camping 




AN AID FOR 
WILDLIFE 

by Kirk W ip per, 

Director, Camp Kandalore. 

One of the major activity pro¬ 
grammes under the general category of 
woodsmanship in camping is that ol 
wildlife. There are many ways that 
such a programme can capture the 
imagination and enthusiasm of camp¬ 
ers and staff. In this brief article, an 
attempt will be made to outline the 
application of one motivational tech¬ 
nique for wildlife. This does not imply 
that the “use of a standard method” 
is necessary for successful cultivation 
of a desirable attitude toward wildlife 
any more than standards are necessary 
in any other camp activity. However, 
the writer’s experience in wildlife 
leadership has prompted the use of a 
standard scale or check list especially 
for tin* older camper who generally 
wants to know where he stands in 
reference to the opportunities presented 
by his natural surroundings. Of course, 
such a method must not be used as the 
only motivation or interest maintainor. 
Special wildlife projects, a wildlife 
corner or centre, conservation activi¬ 
ties, nature trails and visits to special 
habitats are all significant means by 
which natural laws and principles of 
the natural environment may be re¬ 
vealed, understood, and appreciated. 
Taking all this into account, the follow¬ 
ing series of wildlife standards is sub¬ 
mitted for your consideration. The pur¬ 
pose in submitting them is to assist in 
the challenging task of developing a 
wildlife awareness in a camp setting. 

JUNIOR WILD LIFE 
Identify the following: 

(a) 5 deciduous trees 

5 coniferous trees 

(b) 3 shrubs 


(c) (> flowering plants 

(d) 4 natural foods 

(e) 2 ferns 

2 mosses 

(f) 3 insects 

(g) 4 birds by song or sight 

(h) 1 snake 

1 salamander 
1 frog or toad 

(i) 3 animals 

Note: Please do not, under any cir¬ 
cumstances, damage, injure, or destroy 
any natural things which could be a 
continuing asset to your environment. 
This would be contrary to the purpose 
of woodsmanship. 

INTERMEDIATE WILDLIFE 
Identify: 

(a) 8 coniferous trees 
9 deciduous trees 

(b) 9 shrubs 

(c) 3 ferns 

(d) 7 birds by sight or song 

(e) 9 flowering plants 

(f) 2 constellations 

Describe: 

(g) The differences between grasses, 
rushes, reeds and sedges. 

(h) Dry succession and point out 
various stages. 

Locate: 

(i) Any 5 of the following: 
frog 

tree frog 

toad 

newt 

salamander 

snake 

turtle 

lizard 

Project: 

(j) Successfully plant one evergreen 

(k) Draw a map of a typical natural 
community. 

SENIOR WILDLIFE 
Identify: 

6 ferns 
2 mosses 

2 club mosses 
4 constellations 

3 types of clouds and their relation 


Tor on to, Canada . June 1966 


13 


to weather 

12 edible plants or parts thereof and 
properly prepare one ol them 
3 medicinal plants 
3 edible mushrooms and 2 poisonous 
ones 
Describe: 

1. annelid— 

e.g. earthworms and leeches 

2. mollusc— 

e.g. clams, snails, slugs 

3. crustacean— 

e.g. crayfish, sow-bugs 

4. arachnid— 
e.g. spiders 

5. myriapod— 

e.g. centipedes and millipedes 

6. insects— 

e.g. fly, beetle, bug, bee 
Select any living thing and describe 
its friendly neighbours and its 
enemies. 

Describe 2 plants which consume 
insects. 

Describe how your camp can prac¬ 
tise conservation. 

Locate: 

Glacial scratches, errata, and one 
other unusual rock formation. 
Project: 

Show and describe an approved col¬ 
lected specimen at an appropriate 
location in camp. 

Properly mount a wild specimen with 
permission of wildlife director. 
Using natural materials complete an 
artistic project. 

Collect 5 dry specimens of wood and 
describe their uses. 

Live trap one wild living specimen 
(not wild animals because of 
rabies) and care for it for a limited 
period. 

NATURALIST 

1. Establish a permanent display, col¬ 
lection or mounting, acceptable to 
the Wildlife Centre. Permission for 
this must be granted by the Wild¬ 
life Director. 


2. Make from natural materials a 
suitable project of an artistic 
nature or set up one nature trail 
or conduct 2 appropriate native 
games or produce 5 good coloured 
slides on wildlife. 

3. Lead for one full period in wildlife 
a group from each of: 

Juniors 

Intermediates 

Seniors 

including a variety of environments 
and emphasizing the following: 
habitat 

dynamic aspect of natural world 
interdependence of living things 
conservation 

4. Write a brief essay on the signifi¬ 
cance of wildlife in today’s world. 

5. Prepare completely — 2 natural 
foods. 

6. Undertake a random hike and be 
prepared to discuss natural objects 
on the route. 

7. Lead wildlife during a canoe trip 
of not less than 3 days. 


from page 128 

In scientific, jargon. 

And, seeking to fulfill the parts 
O’erlook him, in the bargain. 

Make room for him within the camp. 
His own true self-achieving. 

And in his worth and confidence 
Help him to be believing. 

If freedom is—then freedom be 
Through love its power thrusting 
Give camps to campers, let them live 
Their lives in simple trusting. 

The Camper—Oh! the Camper 
This small jewel of creation 
Hid ’neath papers, pumps, and 
programme 
Awaiting realization. 

So look for him and seek him out 

That giving him our all 

The Camper , oh the Camper! 

Will be our clarion call. 


140 


Canadian Camping 




Tttm'S A SOHO 

by Helen Tuttle 

Where there’s a camp there’s a song. 
You will hear it around the campfire, 
at the meal-table, and along the hikers’ 
road. Singing has its proper places 
through the day—whether in displays 
of sheer enthusiasm or in moments of 
solemn worship. Girls and boys who 
sing nowhere else will learn to sing at 
camp. They love it. Give them a tune, 
and you’ll hear them humming it as 
they do the dishes. 

Singing at camp is no mere time- 
filler. It helps to carry the message of 
camp itself. Watch the quiet youngster 
lose his shyness in an action song. 
Observe the boisterous one stilled by 
the loveliness of vesper singing. 

Sometimes camp singing is just plain 
fun. It may even border on shouting 
whether youngsters get carried away by 
a sprightly tune or marching tempo. 
Each tries to be heard above the others 
in a competitive atmosphere which 
sounds like bedlam. Don’t be alarmed; 
there’s a place for that experience. But 
we should aim to lead boys and girls 
into far richer experiences of song. 
Help them appreciate singing as a 
means of expressing every shade of feel¬ 
ing. Give them the satisfaction which 
comes from co-operative singing in 
rounds and even harmony. 

The best camp singing doesn’t often 
just happen. It is a product of plan¬ 
ning and inspiration by a leader who 
loves the job and a group of campers 
who will soon catch on. 

Plan Group Singing 

“Community Singing” is an over-all 
term which refers to the many situa¬ 
tions where people sing together. It 
ranges all the way from the folk-song 
sung by people in their natural setting 
of home and occupation to the helter- 
skelter sing-song of a get-acquainted 
session. The most characteristic singing 


at camp I prefer to call “group¬ 
singing”. This type of situation gives 
the leader a chance to work out a full 
programme of singing. The leader gets 
to know the capacities of each member 
and is able to draw these out more 
fully. This is possible when a group 
is living and working together for a 
period of days. Here are a few things 
to remember when planning group 
singing: 

1. Always have a good choice of 
songs; always variety and more 
than you can use. 

2. Make a new list for each session, 
bearing in mind the wisdom of 
learning new songs and repeating 
familiar ones. 

3. Classify your songs for easy refer¬ 
ence. Examples: folk songs, rousing 
songs, rounds, action songs, quiet 
songs, spirituals, hymns, etc. 

4. Plan a good order of songs to suit 
the period involved. One order 
is more suitable at meal-time; 
another for the camp-fire. 

5. It is often helpful to have a Com¬ 
mittee of campers to work with 
the leader. Discuss with them the 
place of singing at camp and ask 
for their suggestions. 

Song Leadership 

Let me suggest a few qualities a song 
leader should cultivate and some simple 
rules to follow: 

1. Know your songs thoroughly, 
words and tunes. 

2. Know your appearance when in 
action. Be clear in your explana¬ 
tion and smooth in direction. A 
jumpy, fast-beating time will only 
detract from the song. Be as incon¬ 
spicuous as possible in manner. 

3. Watch your own attitude. A good 
leader is patient, pleasant, and 
will see the humour in mistakes, 
whether of the group or himself. 
Always be positive. Make favour¬ 
able comments first, and sugges¬ 
tions for improvement second. 

4. Do not confuse campers by singing 
harmony parts yourself, unless you 


Toronto, Canada , June 1966 


141 



OUR FRIENDS . - . 
The Advertisers 

American Camping Association . 110 

Cash’s Canada Labels Ltd. 137 

Continental Casualty Co.— 

Outside Back Cover 

T. Eaton Co. Ltd. 107 

Foodcraft Laboratories Ltd. 112 

Galloway Corp... 110 

Gibbons Foods Ltd.Inside Front Cover 

S. Gumpcrt Co. of Canada Ltd. 142 

Jarvis Products .137 

K & N Travel Service . 137 

Longmans Canada Ltd. 108 

McKague Chemical Co. Ltd. 109 

P.C.O. Services Ltd. .. Ill & 112 

Oscar Pearson Enterprises . 137 

Stafford Foods Ltd. 108 

Starkman Chemists Ltd. Ill 

Sturgeons Ltd. 112 

Tandy Leather Co. Ill 

S. E. Woods, Division of The Holden 

Mfg. Co. Ltd.Inside !Back Cover 


CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING RATES: 
Twenty cents a word, minimum five dollars. 
AH classified payable in advance. Address all 
correspondence to “Canadian Camping”, 170 
Bloor Street West, Toronto, Ontario. 


FOR SALE 

750 acres, 5 miles lake front — 
excellent camp, resort, or cottage area 
— north of Kingston — in the Land 
O’Lakes — 28 buildings, facilities for 
250, complete dock system, running 
water — development potential. Ask¬ 
ing price: $75,000. Financing.—Box 
318, Canadian Camping. 


GUMPERT’S FOR ’66 

NEW — NEW — NEW 

— Graham Cracker Crust 
— Bavarian Creme Filling 
— Green Pea Soup 
— Sauce Italiano 
— Pie Crust Mix 

— Trip-Lites-Fish Fry 

— Trip-Lites - - - Green Pea Soup 

S. GUMPERT CO. OF CANADA LTD. 

31 Brock Ave., Toronto — 531-5758 


arc obviously aiding one section of 
the group. 

5. Be open to the requests of camp¬ 
ers for the old favourites—but also 
very ready with your own sugges¬ 
tions to teach a new song. Accept 
theirs and they’ll take yours. 

6. It’s better to suggest than to 
demand. 

7. Be on your toes and the pro¬ 
gramme won’t drag. 

Teaching a New Song 

To teach a new song: 

1. Use a blackboard, if possible, so 
that all eyes are then on the leader 
and words at once. 

2. Begin by listening to the piano 
once, then the leader and piano 
once, then lah-lahing together. 

3. Let the leader and those who think 
they know the song sing it through 
once, while the others are encour¬ 
aged merely to imagine themselves 
singing. 

4. Everybody sing once; then drop 
until the next session. 

—• 


from page 132 

f Hot Potato: use a bean bag which 
must be tossed round or across a 
circle very quickly. Tt’ stands in the 
centre and attempts to touch the bag. 
Whoever lets him becomes ‘it’. 

J Snatch. Two lines number in oppo¬ 
site directions, and separated by 
about six feet. A dumb-bell is placed 
in the centre. The referee calls out 
a number and both the persons must 
try to retrieve the dumb-bell. The 
one who hasn’t got it is allowed to 
tag the other. Tagging doesn’t count 
if the dumb-bell has been dropped. 
The team which retrieves the dumb¬ 
bell without being tagged gets one 
point; or the team which tags gets 
one point. 

Sardines: first person hides; first 
person to find him must hide in the 
same place with him; ad continuum. 


142 


Canadian Camping 























LO o 

I— *- 

o 

Q- 

to 


oo 

E 5 z 

SzJ 
< = IZ 

u x 



>- ^ 

“S 

O Z ^ 
°° 5 o 
< u 

3« 


O o 

3" 
0-° 
c «; 
•I O 

T3 ^ 
O r- 


< 13 
^ O 
c 
D 

u 


I ° 3X-D 
“D CT5 

r g .5 — 

«• • — ^ 

£ 5 c °>*c 

^ u o c O 

F ‘C */> 

«/> O 5 => 

^ ^ r o - 

O * ° " *C 

> s- O 

> O ~ 

* ' c 

. I Cl u O 

10 I .5 « S 

a o 
^ £ E . r* 

2" o o - 

_>* u «/> 


E u •- _ 

2 E o '5 
o > o -c > 

IL LU Z > 



cn 


6 

u 


6 



o 

X _J 
iu -J 

5 => 

u. X 
o 

z 

o 


CO 

> 

Q 
























Since 1954 campers have been paid over one quarter 
of a million dollars from this plan. Benefits paid are 
increasing each year — proof of the need for your 
camp-guard plan. 

*A choice of plans for all organizational, church and private camps 
providing broad medical expense protection for each accident and each 
sickness at low cost group rates for both campers and stall members. 

Put camp-guard on your programme. 

Display this symbol and let parents know 
your camp is covered. This symbol of 
outstanding coverage assures them you 
take added interest in your camper's wel¬ 
fare, by providing a camp-guard accident 
and sickness plan. 

Your local insurance agent will help you 
choose the right plan for your camp; or 
write our nearest office for full particulars. 


| this CAMP it PROTECT ED^ 

ACCOUNT and SICKNtlj *\ 

INSURANCE 

DISPLAY THIS SYMBOL 

SMI KI.RS AVAILABLE I OR YOUR STATIONERY 




CONTtNENTRL CRSURLTY COMPRNY 


Suite 401, 1281 Georgia St. West 160 Bloor St. Hast 5 Place Villc Marie 

VANCOUVER 5. TORONTO MONTREAL 2, QUEBEC 

MUtual 4-6381 924-4692 Victor 9-5303 

Suite 660, 1 Thornton Court. EDMONTON. GA. 4-7322 

202-209 Notre Dame, WINNIPEG 2. WH. 3-8723 Suite 403. 600 6th Avenue S.W., CALGARY, AM. 3-1937 






