








Letters to the Editor 


Congratulations! You have done it again and I 
find myself continually impressed with the 
constantly improving quality of the Canadian 
Camping magazine. I am looking forward to 
the many fine issues in the new year. 

One comment - why are the holes missing? It 
used to be so nice to be able to bind the 
magazines together, it made it easier to use 
different issues as reference material and it 
made it more possible for all camp staff to 
share with the reading. Any chance this can 
continue? You produce a valuable instrument - 
one that should be used to improve camping 
on a continuous path. 

Congratulations again! 

Hal Hannaford 
Toronto 

Hopefully, you should still be able to “bind the 
magazine together” by creating your own holes. 
We did not want to deprive you or any other 


reader, for that matter, of the pleasure of 
creating your own “opening or hollow place in a 
solid body " as Oxford so aptly defines a “hole” 
Perhaps there is major psychological 
significance to your odd query: “closure ” in a 
physical and psychological sense would be 
destroyed if we created our own holes - it 
might, indeed, connote ambiguity, 
carelessness or open-endedness. One might 
also assume that we've riddled our own 
publication with holes, destroying our aesthetic 
appearance, which might obviously be 
perceived as a manifestation of our own death 
wish, or Thanatos, as Freud would say. We 
certainly don't want to self-destruct! 

However, there would also be a very pragmatic 
problem if we pursued your course of thinking: 
would we ask Ottawa to inflict upon Canadian 
Camping a 3-hole or 4-hole punch? This could 
lead to a debate in the House of Commons of 
far greater proportions than “Coalgate” 
(possibilitflfollowed by a Senate sub-committee 
into an investigation of the relative merits of 


punching holes into Canadian Camping. 
Perhaps we could have a two-year feasibility 
study on the merits of: 

(a) three holes 

(b) four holes 

(c) no holes 

Quite possibly the Gallup investigators could 
be hired to do our work for us and we could 
have a “gallup hole” on what the majority of 
Canadians who read Canadian Camping think 
about our dilemma. 

In order to assure you that we've taken 
immediate action, we shall forward your 
comments to Seftor Smoke - Mr. Aurelio Lopez. 
When we hear back from Mr. Lopez, we would 
ask that you, Mr. Hannaford, chair a 
sub-committee consisting of yourself, Ray 
Bowers, Tammy and Aurelio Lopez. 

One last point -1 shudderto think of raising the 
volatile issue of: would we “hole it” in metric or 
not?? 

Thank you very much for your concerns! Are 
you a “three-holer”? 


CONTENTS 


Spring 1983 _Vol. 35, No. 1 


5 

Interview: Leo Buscaglia 

12 

Thanks for the Memories 


by Jay Haddad 


by Joan Scott 

6 

The Camping Advisor 

13 

Spring Cleaning Time 


by Jay Haddad 


by Mary Casey, R.N. 

7 

President’s Perspective 

13 

Camp Music Idea 


by Jocelyn Palm 


by Marjorie Booth 

8 

Memorable Experiences Leading Towards 

14 

Group Dynamics Exercise: 


Spiritual Growth 


Object Contest 


by Ted Yard 


by Jay Haddad 

9 

Creativity Through Crafts at Camp 

15 

Book Review: Legacy To A Camper 


by Brenda Carr 


by Marnie Ellis 


Cover Photo: Cheryl Caldwell 


This Association gratefully acknowledges ■ Government of Canada Gouvernement du Canada 

the financial support of I Fitness and Amateur Sport Condition physique et Sport amateur 


2 



EDITORIAL 


BEAUTY... AT WHAT PRICE? 


A beautiful singer. A beautiful face. Wealthy. 32 years old. Over 
80,000,000 albums sold. Teen idol of millions. Three Grammy Awards. 
Clean-cut image. DEAD: ANOREXIA NERVOSA. 

Karen Carpenter’s death at 32 years of age is only the latest (and 
perhaps dramatic) example of what can happen when a person’s internal 
perception of beauty no longer matches the external reality. Countless 
remarks will be made to the effect that “she had everything going for 
her". But by whose standards and whose values? She thought she was 
fat; she thought she was ugly; she probably had little or no self- 
confidence! As Dr. Leo Buscaglia stated in his closing of the Interna¬ 
tional Camping Congress: "You will never be beautiful until you believe 
you are." What a truism which bears repeating over and over again! 
Beauty, unfortunately, is seen as a cultural variable that is massively 
bombarding our senses from every angle of media - television, movies, 
records, billboards, newspapers, and magazine advertising. The “prod¬ 
uct as saviour" phenomenon is very powerful: just buy this product, kid, 
and you’ll be happy, successful, "in” and LOVED! According to Dr. Erich 
Fromm, this causes considerable emotional turmoil, particularly at the 
subconscious levels of brain function. He states: "advertising operates 
primarily on fear... the fear of not looking right, smelling right, tasting 
right, being too fat, too thin... but beyond all this is the most pervasive 
fear of all... the fear of not being loved. Love, then, becomes dependant 
on a gadget..i.e. if you purchase this product you will be lovable and 
loved! Nowhere in advertising or in the media are people flawed - we 
therefore perceive our world through illusion. Many advertisers have said 
that people don’t consciously believe those claims; they understand it’s 
a gimmick only. Dr. Fromm insists that’s only partially correct... “at a 
conscious level, of course you know you won’t be happy, successful or 
loved just by purchasing this product BUT NOTAT THE SUBCONSCIOUS 
LEVEL." 

It is imperative in our work with young people that we give them the 
survival tools of coping with our hedonistic, youth-oriented and material¬ 
istic world; the single most important survival skill is: TO LOVE THY¬ 
SELF. It is so important to grow up feeling good about yourself, acquiring 
a sense of confidence, autonomy and esteem. Do you realize how much 
self-confidence a person must have to non-conform, to go against the 
flow, to be different? We are bombarded by images of “perfection” in the 


media and we all strive to become “10’s" - knowing full well that we’ll 
never quite measure up. Imagine! We’re all failures with regard to physi¬ 
cal beauty and perfection. Almost all men and women are dissatisfied 
with themselves physically and it just verifies how successful the adver¬ 
tising industry has become in making everyone feel inadequate. Do you 
know that 85% of North Americans would prefer to be someone OTHER 
THAN THEMSELVES? That's repulsive! As Buscaglia says: “Your body 
is important only because it’s a vehicle that carries what is essential 
about you.” Take care of it, therefore, only as vehicle - but don’t linger on 
it, be obsessed by it, worried over it, neurotic over its lack of perfection, 
ashamed by wrinkles and imperfect parts, and afraid of its naturalness. 
Cultivate what's inside - the real you, the essential you, the part that 
Karen Carpenter couldn’t find and the part that money or products can’t 
buy! The integrity of the human soul, the human spirit, the uniqueness 
and internal beauty of each human person - cultivate the “inner you", the 
real you, the essential you and you will never ever want to be someone 
else. 

This is an important lesson for us but it’s even more important for our 
campers to understand that they’ll never escape themselves. All of the 
powers of healing and all of the powers of feeling are within each human 
person. We are our own survival guides, health guides, therapy guides 
and beauty guides! It’s impossible to ever escape oneself; as Arthur 
Miller wrote in After The Fall: “I think it’s a mistake to ever look for hope 
outside of yourself. One day the house smells of fresh bread and the next 
of smoke and blood. One day you faint because the gardener cut his 
finger and the next you’re climbing over corpses of children bombed in a 
subway. What hope can there be if that is so? I tried to die near the end of 
the war. The same dream returned to me each night until I dared not to go 
to sleep and I grew ill. I dreamed I had a child, and even in the dream I saw 
that the child was my life - and it was an idiot - and I ran away from it, but 
it always kept climbing to my lap and clutching at my clothes until I 
thought ... if I could kiss it ... whatever in it that was my own ... 
perhaps I could sleep again. And I bent to its broken face and it was 
horrible, but I kissed it. I think one must finally take one’s own life into 
one’s arms and kiss it.” 

Take your life in your hands and kiss it and go on from there. Embrace 
yourself and your life ... an inexpensive pricetag for beauty, genuine 
beauty! 


Editorial Policy 

Jay Haddad, Editor 

The ideas expressed in the Editorial are 
those of the Editorial Committee and not 
necessarily those of the Canadian Camp¬ 
ing Association/Association des Camps 
du Canada. The views are expressed to 
provide stimulation and comment. We in¬ 
vite you to respond in “Letters to the 
Editor” to Canadian Camping, 1806 
Avenue Road, Suite 2, Toronto, Ontario 
M5M 3Z1. 


Editorial Office is located at the CCA/ACC 
Office, 1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, Toronto, 
Ontario M5M 3Z1. 


Canadian Camping is an official publication of the Canadian Camping Association/Association des 
Camps du Canada Canadian Camping (ISSN 008-3119) is published quarterly. CCA/ACC member¬ 
ship includes a subscription; non-member subscriptions in Canada $6.00 a year or $15.00 - 3 years. 
Send address changes to CCA/ACC, 1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1. 
Material in Canadian Camping may not be reproduced in any form, without written permission of the 
editor. Copyright 1983 Canadian Camping Association/Association des Camps du Canada. 


EDITORIAL 

ETRE BELLE MfilS... ft QUEL PRIX? 


32 ans, riche, jolie, rayonnante, talentueuse, 80 000 000 microsillons de 
vendus, r6cipiendaire de 3 trophies Grammy, idole de milliers de per- 
sonnes. MORTE! Diagnostic: ANOREXIE. 

La mort de Karen Carpenter a 32 ans n’est que le dernier exemple de ce 
qui peut advenir quand notre conception de la beauts physique ne corres¬ 
pond plus a la r6alit6. Combien de fois entendrez-vous dire: “Elle avait tout 
pour elle” Selon le sens des valeurs et les crit6res de qui? Elle se voyait 
grosse, elle se trouvait laide. Sans doute n’avait-elle pas ou irks peu 
confiance en elle. A la cloture du Congr^s International des camps, le Dr 
L6o Buscaglia a fait cette reflexion: “Vous ne serez jamais beau k moins de 
le croire". Voilci bien une verite qui merite d’etre r^petee a qui veut 
I’entendre. Malheureusement, la beauts est pergue comme une variable 
culturelle que manipulent abusivement et qu’imposent a tous nos sens la 
television, le cin6ma, I’industrie du disque, la reclame des panneaux 
d’affichage, les magazines et les journaux. Le phenomene du “produit 
miracle”est tout-puissant. Achetez telle chose et vous serez heureux, vous 
reussirez, vous serez k la mode, ou mieux, vous serez aime. Selon le Dr 
Erick Fromm, ce ph6nomene ebranle le systeme emotif, tout particultere- 
ment au niveau du subconscient. II signale que la publicite est ax6e sur la 
crainte: celle ne pas etre bien, de ne pas sentir bon, d’etre trop gros ou trop 
maigre. Or dans ce labyrinthe de I’inconscient se cache une crainte encore 
pire... celle de ne pas etre aimb. L’amour ne tient done qu’a une “b6belle”. 
Procurez-vous tel produit et vous serez ch6ri et ador6. La publicity ne 
presente jamais de personnes vilaines physiquement. Notre monde est 
done pergu k travers un tissu d’illusions. Nombre de promoteurs avangent 
que les gens ne croient pas consciemment en la publicite et savent qu’il 
s’agit de “bobards”. Le Dr Fromm souligne que ce n’est \k qu’une demi- 
v6rite. “Au niveau r6fl6chi les gens comprennent que le produit ne peut rien 
leur apporter mais il en est tout autre au niveau de I’inconscient”. 

II importe d’apprendre aux jeunes k manier les outils qui leur permet- 
tront de s’6panouir dans un monde materialiste et h6doniste ou, il taut 
surtout se garder de vieillir. Le meilleur outil est encore celui qui sert k 
fagonnerl’amourdesoi. IIest important degrandiren sesentant bien dans 
sa peau, d’acqu6rir la confiance en soi, I’autonomie et I’estime de sa 
personne. R6alisez-vous le degre de confiance en soi que doit possSder 
une personne pour se distinguer du troupeau? Etre differente? Les mass- 
media nous bombardent psychologiquement avec leurs modeles de per¬ 
fection et nous nous attachons k devenir un "Num6ro 10”en sachant fort 
bien que nous n’y parviendrons jamais. Voyez-moi ga. Nous sommes tous 
des echecs, physiquement. Presque tous les hommes et toutes les 
femmes se plaignent de leur apparence. Voil& la preuve du pouvoir per- 
suasif de la publicity et de ses m6faits. Nous sommes tous convaincus 
que nous avons quelque chose “qui cloche”. Saviez-vous que 85% des 
Nord-Am6ricains souhaiteraient etre quelqu’un d’autre? C’est ignoble. 
Comme le dit Buscaglia: Votre corps est important parce qu’il transporte 
I’essentiel k votre sujet”. Prenez-en soin tel d’un v6hicule sans y attacher 
plus d’importance. Ne soyez pas obsede, soucieux, n6vrose parce qu’il 
n’est pas parfait. N’ayez pas honte de vos rides et de vos dSfauts phy¬ 


siques, n’ayez pas peur du naturel de votre corps. Cultivez ce qui est k 
I’interieur, le vrai vous, ce qui vous caract6rise .. cette partie que Karen 
Carpenter ne pouvait trouver, celle que ni argent ni produits peuvent 
acheter. La grandeur d’ame, I’esprit, le caract^re unique, la beaut6 intrinse- 
que de chaque etre humain. Cultivez votre beaute intSrieure, et votre 
personnalite et vous ne voudrez jamais plus etre quelqu’un d’autre. 

La mort de Karen nous a appris une legon importante mais il est encore 
plus important que nos campeurs comprennent qu’ils ne pourront jamais 
s’evader d’eux-memes. Les pouvoirs de gu6rir et de vibrer sont inh6rents k 
chaque etre humain. Nous portons ci I’int6rieur de nous la force qui nous 
pousse k vivre, k demeurer en sant§, k gu6rir et a etre beau. On ne peut 
echapper k son etre. Arthur Miller a ecrit dans son livre “Apr6s la chute”: 
“Je pense que c’est faire erreur que de chercher de I’aide k I’ext6rieur de 
soi”. Un jour une odeur de pain chaud parfume la maison, le lendemain, 
c’est une senteur de fum6e et de sang qui s’y repand. Un jour vous vous 
evanouissez parce que le jardinier s’est coup6 au doigt, le lendemain vous 
passez sur des corps d’enfants sinistr6s par bombardement. Quel espoir 
reste-il si telle est la vie? J’ai voulu mourir vers la fin de la guerre. Chaque 
soir le meme reve me troublait jusqu’ci ce que je decide de ne plus dormir. 
Je suis tombe malade. Je revais d’un enfant idiot - et meme l& je voyais que 
e’etait ma vie - puis je tentais de m’enfuir pour l’6viter. Mais voilci qu’il 
s’agrippait k mes vetements et montait sur mes genoux. J’ai pens6 que si 
je le baisais, peu importe quelle partie de mon etre il repr6sentait, je 
retrouverais peut-etre le sommeil. Je me suis pench6 vers son visage 
hideux et dans mon effroi je I’ai bais6. Je crois que chacun doit finalement 
prendre sa vie dans ses bras et I’embrasser. Baisez la votre puis repartez de 
la. Vous aimer, aimer votre vie, c’est payer peu cher pour la vraie beaute. 



INTERVIEW 

by: Jay Haddad 


As practically everyone in Canada knows who 
had some knowledge of the International 
Camping Congress, Dr. Leo Buscaglia was 
the closing banquet speaker. As practically 
everyone in North America knows, THREE 
books of his have simultaneously been 
perched atop the New York Times bestseller 
list - Love, Living Loving and Learning, and The 
Fall of Freddie the Leaf. Every camper should 
have “Freddie” read to him/her this summer, 
every counsellor should feel the confidence of 
Love in his/her back pocket and every Director 
could wisely heed the prompting to risk 
through Living, Loving and Learning. 

Ten years ago I heard an audio cassette 
tape through Bruce Harris at Camp Kawabi - 
I’ll never forget the powerful, dynamic voice 
that turned out to be Felice Leonardo Buscag¬ 
lia. I finally traced the talk to a video-taped 
speech made at the University of Wisconsin 
(Stout) entitled “Love - the Most Powerful 
Force in Education Today”. Humber College 
bought the video-tape for me in 1974 (we’ve 
since acquired about ten others) and every 
student I taught was exposed to this man’s 
message - the power of which had taken me 
to Los Angeles to meet him and attend class 
with him in 1977 at the University of Southern 
California. In the cold of January 27,1983, it 
was fun reminiscing about those earlier days. 
I was picturing Leo, John Latimer and myself, 
on our second bottle of wine deep in the heart 
of L.A. at Lawrey’s Prime Rib .. “Air Canada 
flight 790 has arrived from Los Angeles, pas¬ 
sengers will be proceeding to gate B”. Large 
as life, tanned, he stood at the luggage carou¬ 
sel - when his eyes met mine, he lit up. With 
arms outstretched he approached the glass 
barrier and stood for ten seconds studying my 
face. He raised his index finger and lipped the 
word “soon” and returned to pick up his suit¬ 
case. 

A long, warm embrace was followed by fre¬ 
quent “Hello, Leo”, “Welcome to Toronto, Dr. 
Buscaglia”, “Look, there’s Dr. Hug”, from 
passersby as we made our way to the car. 

I asked him about the terrible rains in Cali¬ 
fornia - as usual, the response was beautiful 
as it was philosophical: “Oh, my Lord, we’re 
sinking in California but you know what’s 
beautiful? Adversity brings people together 
and it’s magical! Not that I would wish misfor¬ 
tune on anyone for a minute, but I wish every¬ 
one could have the experience of having all his 
material and worldly goods destroyed and 
have to start all over again from scratch. What 
a healthy lesson! It would be like the people in 
Cambodia who lose everything yearly to the 
monsoons - no matter, they begin the process 
of rebuilding but it shows that what is impor¬ 
tant is how the human spirit grows and not 
material gain.” 



In the car we discussed the research for his 
new book, Loving Relationships. He had just 
written six pages on the plane on the chapter 
on “honesty”. In response to his question as 
to the most important variable holding people 
together, I guessed “affection, warmth”. “No”, 
he said, “that’s number three”. Honesty? 
“That’s number two. Number one is COM¬ 
MUNICATION - the ability to relate, under¬ 
stand and share. And do you know where sex 
fits in? Number fourteen!” 

There were six of us sitting around a beauti¬ 
ful table at Bangkok Garden and Leo was cen¬ 
tre stage. Due to his years of travelling that 
had taken him to Thailand, he was comfort¬ 
able ordering the fish, satays, shrimp balls, 
spring rolls, ginger chicken and so on. “I re¬ 
member staying with my family in Thailand. 
Each night as the fish would be served, the 
head and tail were always placed in front of 
me. I envied everyone else picking the meat 
off the body; after a while I asked if I, too, 
could have some meat from the body - every¬ 
one cheered as they pulled the head and tail 
away from me. You see, as their honoured 
guest I was served the delicacy - the head and 
the tail”. It sure shows we can’t make assump¬ 
tions about other people and their way of do¬ 
ing things using our “learned” value system. 
Their way is learned, too! Having had a nap 
prior to dinner, Buscaglia continued: “Not 
only Thailand, but I think every country in the 
world has some sort of siesta time or rest time 
to break up the day - except North America! 
We should take a lesson from other countries 
- I’m sure the human body was never meant to 
rise at 7:00 a.m. and continue for sixteen or 
seventeen uninterrupted hours until sleep at 
midnight. That’s crazy!” 

It’s a good thing that Leo gets his rest; not 
simply because of his quintuple bypass heart 
surgery last year but because of the tremen¬ 
dous energy expenditure of his on-stage per¬ 
formance. He is electric when he walks to the 
microphone to a standing ovation of 3,000 
people - he urges, laughs, mimics, bobs, 
weaves, sweats and undresses! Buscaglia is 
not himself, until his jacket is off, his tie loos¬ 
ened and his sleeves rolled up: “Encounter 
yourself... be your own idol... get in touch 
with your madness.. .avoid zealots.. try love 


... never expect and you’ll never be disap¬ 
pointed ... free yourself of labels and their 
tyranny... be spontaneous ... love is always 
open arms, always ... you really do matter.. 
enjoy the moment because the only reality is 
NOW... an educator teaches best by being a 
model .. don’t wait ... let me hug you ...” 
And hug you he does! Surrounded by thou¬ 
sands after every lecture, this diminuitive 
“Gandhi-like” figure patiently embraces ev¬ 
eryone with the same sincerity and intensity. 
The message is always the same (“because I 
am always addressing people. When I speak 
to the American Medical Association, I am 
speaking to human beings, not surgeons”) in 
its beauty and simplicity (“I detest educators 
who hide behind jargon and can therefore 
never communicate effectively”). 

From a family of eleven children and a 
mama and papa, he constantly stresses the 
importance of family life. “You know”, he says 
quietly before departing, as he stares at me 
and my mother, sisters, brother, brother-in-law, 
niece and nephews, “all my sisters and 
brothers never moved farther than a 12 mile 
radius from mama and papa’s house in Los 
Angeles. Isn’t that incredible? In a society 
with increased mobility and opportunity, my 
family always stayed together. I remember 
one time when my brother-in-law was offered a 
glorious increase in money and responsibility 
but it meant having to move to San Francisco 
- my sister told him that if he took the job he’d 
be going ALONE. He stayed ... and in the end 
happily, too!” 

There are some beautiful anecdotes and 
stories in all his books about his family. “And 
interestingly, when my older brother read a 
few of my books, he said: ‘You know, Leo, I 
didn’t see mama and papa that way’ and the 
more I thought about that, I realized how right 
he was. Mama and papa were different people 
when they raised me than when they raised 
my brother - they were 20 years older, wiser, 
more relaxed and so on! We often hold our 
parents to sameness, forgetting that they are 
constantly growing and changing too.” 

Driving back out to the airport after three 
days which seemed like three minutes, we 
were chatting about “bonding”, the studies of 
Harlow and Spitz and Bowlby and Helbrugge 



See INTERVIEW-Page 7 


5 






THE CAMPING ADVISOR 


Perhaps you can give a suggestion or two to a 
yearly problem; in pre-camp there is a lot of 
important information that we (the Directors) 
must impart to our staff, especially to our new 
staff. However, many of the returning staff have 
a “here we go again” attitude as many feel 
they’ve heard it all before - and some have for 5 
or 6 years! How does one give sessions on wa¬ 
terfront safety, emergency procedures, camper 
problems, camp philosophy etc. to all the staff 
when their motivation levels are so different? I 
am considering having our experienced staff 
members arrive at camp later but am wondering 
if that could adversely affect staff morale? 

M.C, Montreal, Quebec 

You have certainly presented a problem, but 
we'd rather look upon it as an opportunity. 
Perhaps you could sit down one evening with 
a small group of staff consisting of two or 
three of the “old guard” and one or two of the 
newly-hired staff members. Throw it open to 
the group as to how the pre-camp routine 
could be challenging, exciting and different 
enough to accommodate all motivation levels 
(see Group Dynamics Exercise). You could 
have groups move around in teams which 
would be comprised of a combination of old 
and new staff. Change the routine - have 
some emergency procedures covered at 4:00 
a.m. (keeping the staff unaware) when an 
emergency such as fire or lost camper easily 
could happen. A lot of Ontario camps 
“switch” Directors for an entire day in pre¬ 
camp in order to hear leadership sessions 
and philosophy from different, and some¬ 
times neighbouring, Directors. There are a lot 
of government funded summer groups which 
could provide your staff with creative ses¬ 
sions on music, art, drama and acting, to 
name a few. These groups are almost always 
“free” and quite talent-laden! Many camps 
have a buddy system where a new staff mem¬ 
ber is contacted by an old staff member BE¬ 
FORE arriving at pre-camp; this works quite 
well, especially if the two can get together 
once or twice before arriving at camp. 

The variations, of course, are endless, as 
you can see. The only area we urge inflexibil¬ 
ity is regarding your suggestion of having the 
“old guard” arrive at camp at a later date or by 
mixing staff teams into “new” and “old" 
groups. This could prove quite divisive as the 
morale you are trying to achieve in pre-camp 
far transcends skills and safety training and 
moves into the arena of “camp spirit” which 
you will need to last all summer. Mix people 
up, challenge them, give them an unpredicta¬ 
ble and different programme in pre-camp - 
and use your staff to plan the programme as 
they will then have a vested interest in making 
it great! Good luck! 


Can you suggest a method of winter storage for our 
piano at camp? 

C.S., Mississauga, Ontario 

Several camps leave their pianos in unheated 
buildings over the winter. Normally, you 
should cover the piano with a tarp and leave 
the bottom open so it remains ventilated. You 
might also try hanging a light bulb in the open 
back of the piano to keep it dry and warm. The 
cost of the electricity would be relatively low 

and it might really help. 

* * * 

Last month I noticed a CCA/ACC member camp 
certificate on the wall of another camp’s office. 
Our camp joined our provincial camping associ¬ 
ation last fall, but we didn’t receive any certifi¬ 
cate. How can we get one? 

S.S., Calgary, Alberta 

Each province orders the CCA/ACC member 
camp certificates from the National Office. 
There is one for camps accredited by the pro¬ 
vincial standards committee and another for 
member camps who are not accredited. Once 
the camp receives the member camp certifi¬ 
cate, the CCA/ACC forwards the “year 
stickers” to all the provincial presidents. 
These are sent to each camp to keep the cer¬ 
tificate up to date. 

Contact your Provincial President for fur¬ 
ther details. 


Every year we try to recruit good staff by adver¬ 
tising at colleges and universities throughout 
the Maritimes. When I send letters inviting ap¬ 
plicants to attend an interview in my city, there 
are often many students who don’t show up at 
the interviews. Do you have any suggestions on 
why this happens or how to solve the problem? 

M.W., Halifax, Nova Scotia 

When you schedule interviews, you might try 
to use the student manpower offices on 
campus to hold your interviews. In late winter, 
most students are very low on funds, so they 
may not be able to afford the bus or train fare 
to your city for the interview. It's annoying that 
these applicants don't send you a note to 
withdraw their application; if you make it easy 
for them to be interviewed on campus, I'm cer¬ 
tain you would have more success. 

♦ • * 

As a counsellor in a camp with many other 
counsellors, our Director’s habits of “fa¬ 
vouritism” is a very frequent topic of discussion 
and conversation. Many of us feel it is unprofes¬ 
sional for a Director to have favourites while 
others feel it is natural and “human”. What is 
your opinion? 

J.C., Kingston, Ontario 


It is undoubtedly natural and “human ”, as you 
put it, to have favourites. To play favourites, 
though, is unprofessional! 

In other words, the Director as a human 
being will naturally gravitate toward certain 
individuals who complement his personality - 
it could be a Section Head, counsellor or 
kitchen staff who befriends or is befriended 
by the Director. No problem there. 

The problem arises when the “favourite” 
gets privileges (in fact) or is perceived to be 
getting privileges by the rest of the staff and 
this will undoubtedly create friction and ani¬ 
mosity. We've seen it happen where the “fa¬ 
vourite” gets to use camp vehicles when 
others cannot or is allowed to come back to 
camp later from time off without recourse or 
punishment. This is negative and destructive 
but beyond that, the Director will eventually 
lose the staff's respect and the “favourite" 
will be somewhat ostracized. A good way of 
handling this tense situation is for someone 
close to the Director to speak with him and 
someone close to the “favourite” to speak 
with him. The probability of resolution, 
though, is very low! 

However, if by “favourite” you mean some¬ 
one is closer to the Director than others, this 
can be very positive. A Director needs a confi¬ 
dante, a friend, someone to “blow off steam” 
with or have a drink with. As long as there is 
fair and equal treatment in the Director-Staff 
role involvement, most staff are understand¬ 
ing and accepting of this kind of closeness or 
friendship bond that develops between two 
human beings. 

It's a delicate and sometimes precarious 
situation for a Director, no question about 
that; also, the “favourite” is not always a per¬ 
son to be envied, as most of us know! 



Thank you for your letters. We regret that we 
cannot answer each one personally; however, 
we will endeavour to publish the most inter¬ 
esting and provocative ones. Address all let¬ 
ters to: The Camping Advisor, do The Editor, 
Canadian Camping, 1806 Avenue Road, Suite 
2, Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1. 


Beth Moon 


fiwards & Certificates 
Presented! 


President's Perspective 

by: Jocelyn Palm 


The International Camping Congress was a 
huge success. We salute the Congress Com¬ 
mittee for their foresight, hard work and deter¬ 
mination to offer an event that would bring 
camping people lots to think about in future. 
The Steering Committee, chaired by John 
Latimer, watched three years of effort come to 
fruition January 26-29,1983. Each of us is in¬ 
spired in some way as a result of being with 
other camping leaders and the ’83 Congress 
has given us a boost into the preparations that 
camping people enjoy at this time of year. 

Thursday, April 14th. This is National Camp¬ 
ing Day and every camping person is urged to 
join in the celebrations. At the Promotion and 
Publicity Workshops January 24-26, 1983, 
Committee Chairman, Marnie Ellis, gave each 
province lots of ideas and suggestions in or¬ 
der to focus public attention on camping. 
Every province should take advantage of the 
opportunity to tell the public about the bene¬ 
fits of a camping experience. Encourage your 
campers to share their enthusiasm and to 
wear their camp shirts, hats or jackets, or 
some identification of their camp on this spe¬ 
cial day. National Camping Day is not a new 
idea. Conceived in the 1960’s, there have been 
similar efforts over the years. The B.C. Camp¬ 
ing Association spawned the t-shirt day and 
for several years B.C. campers have worn their 
camp t-shirts on that special day. The idea 
was endorsed by all provinces at a Halifax 
meeting in 1981 and the Publicity and Promo¬ 
tion Committee are now keen that this be an 
annual Canadian event. 

Each province sent delegates to the Stand¬ 
ards and Education Workshops, also held 
prior to the January ’83 Congress. Brian Law 



chaired the Standards event and Dorothy Wal¬ 
ter the Education Workshop. Thank you chair- 
people, and thank you delegates for your 
input. 

Because of our support from Fitness Can¬ 
ada, many delegates were able to attend the 
CCA Workshops and the International Camp¬ 
ing Congress. We acknowledge this support 
and appreciate the various CCA projects 
which are enhanced by Fitness Canada as¬ 
sistance. 


AWARD OF HONOUR 

Brian Blackstock received the Canadian Camp¬ 
ing Association’s Award of Honour at the Inter¬ 
national Camping Congress last January. 
Brian is a long-time member of the Ontario 
Camping Association and is Owner/Director 
of Camp Mazinaw. The CCA Award of Honour 
was bestowed as a tribute to Brian’s consist¬ 
ent efforts as Editor of Canadian Camping from 
1977 to 1981. Brian also contributes to the 
camping movement as a Board Member and 
Past President of the Society of Camp Direc¬ 
tors. 

CERTIFICATE OF 
APPRECIATION 

Derek Walsh was awarded the CCA Certificate 
of Appreciation at the reception prior to the 
Congress Banquet last January 29th. This 
award reflects the gratitude of the CCA for 
Derek’s contribution as a Past President of the 
former English Section - Quebec Camping 
Association, in addition to his work as Chair¬ 
man of the CCA Public Relations and Promo¬ 
tion Committee and Vice President of the 
national association from 1974-1981. Most re¬ 
cently Derek completed a feasibility study on 
a proposed magazine. 

John Eberhard received the CCA Certificate of 
Appreciation from the President at a recent 
meeting of the Canadian Recreational Canoe¬ 
ing Association held in conjunction with the 
Congress. John is a friend to camping both as 
Past President of the CRCA but also through 
his volunteer work as the Chairman of the 
Easter Seal Society Camp Chairmen’s Coun¬ 
cil. John contributed his time as a lawyer to 
pursue the CCA’s application for charitable 
status through the national Department of 
Revenue. 


INTERVIEW continued 

and Heath and so many others who have long 
proven that touch deprivation causes actual 
brain damage which, in turn, can cause hu¬ 
mans to withdraw (autism) or become aggres¬ 
sive (atavism). Touch is not simply good for us, 
it is necessary and critical forour physical and 
psychological development. “Do you know 
what drives me crazy?” Leo asks rhetorically, 
“after a lecture when I’m hugging a beautiful 
lady sixty-five years old and, almost tearfully, 
she whispers: ‘this is the first time in seven¬ 
teen years since my husband died that anyone 
has touched me’.” And now Buscaglia’s eyes 
moisten: “You know, I want to scream! I want 
to say to society: WHAT ARE WE DOING!!?? 
Schweitzer was so right when he said: ‘We are 
so much together and yet we are all dying of 
loneliness’. And it doesn’t have to be that way 
if we’re willing to touch, reach out, re-learn and 
re-discover the child in each and everyone of 
us.” 



Memorable Experiences 
Leading Towards Spiritual Growth 


by: W.E. (Ted) Yard 


WILLIAM EDWARD (TED) YARD 

It is with deep regret that we report the 
death on January 3,1983 of W.E. (Ted) 
Yard. Born in Vancouver, B.C., in 1919, he 
received a B.A. degree from the Univer¬ 
sity of British Columbia and an M.S. 
from George Williams College in Chi¬ 
cago. Ted served the YMCA from 1942, in 
Vancouver, Toronto and Sault Ste. Marie 
until he bought his own Camp Hollyburn 
in 1967. 

He was well-known in the Yand camp¬ 
ing circles, particularly during his tenure 
as Director of Toronto’s Camp Pinecrest 
in the ’50s and early ’60s. One of Can¬ 
ada’s foremost leaders in the camping 
field, he served as President of the On¬ 
tario Camping Association from 1949 to 
1951 and of the Canadian Camping As¬ 
sociation from 1953 to 1955, and was 
recognized throughout North America. 

Ted was also on the staff of Seneca Col¬ 
lege. I 

Ted leaves his wife Shirley and chil¬ 
dren Judy, Jack, Ted and Tony. Shirley 
can be contacted at P.O. Box 99, Ros- 
seau, Ontario, POC 1J0. 

I A memorial service was held at Camp 
Hollyburn, Rosseau, Ontario, on Jan¬ 
uary 15th. 

We felt that the most appropriate tribute to Ted 
would be to repeat an article of his that ap¬ 
peared years ago in Canadian Camping. As you 
will see, this article captures Ted's philosophy 
on life, the outdoors & camping ... but espe¬ 
cially, his love of the campers. 

Perhaps you had slipped away for a short 
paddle in the breathtaking stillness of a sum¬ 
mer evening. Dreamily you were carried by the 
effortless rhythm of your paddle and the tin¬ 
kling music at your bow until suddenly you 
held! ... There before you on a rocky point a 
hushed throng of over a hundred children were 
sitting ... listening, and watching. They were 
listening to music that you, too, could hear... 
though you had no idea where it came from; 
and suddenly you realized that they were 
watching the sunset, which, seen from their 
vantage point, provided a constantly chang¬ 
ing panorama in the direction from which you 
had come. 

The music faded, and a spokesman whose 
calm clear voice seemed somehow to harmo¬ 
nize with everything about the place, sug¬ 
gested that those who so wished might share 
with all their friends their most vivid memory 
of the past two weeks at camp. There was no 
prompting; there had been no preparation. 


One after another the children rose to say “I 
rememberOr perhaps you came upon 
another spot on another such evening, and 
heard the spokesman at the Voyageur- 
Lumberman ceremony saying: 


“Let us pause for a moment, and viewing 
the truly beautiful shades of our Muskoka eve¬ 
ning, let us this day drink deep of the beauty in 
lake and sky and stately pine. Let us cherish 
the deep friendships discovered at this spot; 
may they give deeper meaning to lives already 
dedicated to helpful, purposeful ends.” 

There was a pause, and then you saw the 
lumberman ... clad in high boots, mackinaw 
shirt, and peak cap. With an axe on his capa¬ 
ble shoulders he strode quietly along the 
shoreline to take his place against a giant pine 
... silhouetted in the sunset. 




sj- A 






8 




"It Is the Lumberman ... craftsman, pio¬ 
neer, conservationist... he is a living symbol 
of Canada’s great forest lands. He is, too, an 
integral part of the lore and tradition of this 
place we call our camp.” 

Another pause, and then a canoe skimmed 
into silhouette. The paddler in buckskin coat 
and tasselled toque, skillfully set his craft 
ashore, and took his place opposite the Lum¬ 
berman. 

“It is the Voyageur... explorer, adventurer, 
master of his craft, he looks to new horizons 
... for he, too, is Canada_and in this beau¬ 

tiful setting he travels with the greatest 
Sternsman of all time.” 

You saw how logical it all was ... You saw 
the rest of the ceremony; and when the fire 
was lit and the songs began, you quietly 
slipped away. 

.. Perhaps, (it would have had to be by 
invitation), you were privileged to visit a sol¬ 
emn campfire induction ceremony. You heard 
the young inductees accept the Pine as a 
symbol of Strength and Fortitude... 

.. .“for, as the Pine roots cling to the crevices 
of solid Muskoka rock to hold firm in all 
weather, so will we hold firm to the princi¬ 
ples of good living that we have learned in 
our homes, and at our camp.” 

You heard them accept the Pine as a symbol of 
Personal Growth... 

.. .“for, as the Pine strives ever upward toward 
a clear, fresh sky, so will we strive in our 
personal lives to reach a higher level of 
faith, understanding, and brotherly love.” 
You heard them accept the Pine as a symbol of 
Purity... 

.. .“for, as the stately Pine draws its life from 
the fresh Northern air, from the nourishing 


soil and from the clear waters of our 
spring-fed lake, so will we draw ours from 
the clean speech, clean sportsmanship, 
and clear minds of those whom we re¬ 
spect and love.” 

You felt that this was a truly memorable experi¬ 
ence for them... and for you 

On still another occasion, you may have 
seen a lad step forward and drop a huge stone 
in the mirror-like lake. You followed the widen¬ 
ing circles and were surprised to see a young 
boy rise: 

“Our widening friendship circles take us to 
Poland, my homeland.” ... In a few well 
chosen words this boy made Poland and 
her people seem our neighbours. So it 
was with a boy from Holland, with others 
from Greece, Estonia, Scotland ... even 
Australia. 

You felt that there was brotherhood in this 
place... real brotherhood! 

It may be that you were present when a 
camper presented a stone at the Sunday 
morning service. 

“We brought this stone from the Black- 
stone Lake, the destination on our canoe 
trip. The word we have painted on the 
stone is TEAM-WORK, because it seemed 
to fit the spirit of our trip.” 

Somehow you knew that it had been a good 
trip! 

These glimpses you may have caught were 
intended to be in complete harmony with a 
philosophy of working with children at camp, 
towards the greatest possible enrichment of 
the life of each one. 

Discussions of real life problems as related 
to camp situations, evening cabin “quiet 
times”, morning watch, experiences in antiph- 


onal singing, short skits or plays “with a pur¬ 
pose”, ... even Taps, the “Friendship Circle”, 
and “Abide With Me”... all are related to this 
grouping of events which is sometimes re¬ 
ferred to as the “more formal" part of a total 
child-centred program. 

Inherent in any basic educational philoso¬ 
phy there will doubtless be an appreciation for 
the need of self-expression, for decision mak¬ 
ing, for a greater appreciation of others; and all 
these needs must be observed if we plan to do 
a consequential work. Our staff must thor¬ 
oughly understand the goals, and they must 
possess such skills and insights that they can 
effectively play the role of “guides” along this 
unpredictable trail. 

The so-called “formal” events need not de¬ 
viate from the genuine consistency of ap¬ 
proach so essential to the achievement of 
goals in any field. There should be a place for 
camper participation in the very earliest 
stages of development, as well as in the final 
presentation of the event. Skilled leadership 
will ensure that the laws of learning are care¬ 
fully observed so that a memorable experi¬ 
ence may, in addition, be one which broadens 
understanding and deepens insights. 

Spiritual wealth has been described as that 
accumulated reserve which makes creative 
living possile. It is a reserve built of confi¬ 
dence ... confidence in a Creator, confidence 
in a world of Nature, and confidence in one’s 
self. Inspiration may play a significant role in 
the development of the confidence, and it may 
well be that the camp staff has a definite 
responsibility to capitalize on its unparalleled 
opportunity for creating these truly meaning¬ 
ful “Memorable Experiences”. 


Creativity... through Crafts at Camp 

by: Brenda Carr, Camp Ouareau 


Creativity is a gift liberally bestowed on young 
children. Brimming with curiosity about the 
world around them, all youngsters have won¬ 
derfully imaginative ways of expressing their 
feelings and ideas. 

This is creativity: the desire to express one¬ 
self, the capacity to be curious and inventive. 
Where does this talent come from and where, 
too often, does it go? Why is it that not all 
children retain their natural spark of original¬ 
ity and joy in self-expression? The answer isn’t 
too hard to find. Young children aim to please. 
They tend to drop from their repertoire the 
kind of behaviour which isn’t approved of, and 
to retain and improve upon the skills and gifts 
which call forth praise. 

To encourage a child’s creativity, look 
around you, be aware of the beauty of a sun¬ 
set, a landscape, the sea; share those re¬ 
sponses with a child. Share too, your curiosity 
and dreams. Share your experiences and love 
to stimulate children’s creativity. 


Provide children with supplies and space 
needed to work on simple craft projects ... 
crayons, paints, paper, scissors, paste. Chil¬ 
dren love to work with these. Just give a chi id a 
smock to wear and a corner to work in where 
spills and clutter don’t matter - let him or her 
go to it. The important thing to remember is 
that a child should feel free to experiment and 
create to his heart’s content, with knowing 
approval. Praise their efforts, display their 
work, but let them know you are proud. 

I feel there are five main points to remember 
in arts and crafts: 

1) arouse their curiosity and interest in pro¬ 
jects 

2) provide a good work area 

3) guide but don’t push 

4) be generous with praise 

5) have a goal for each project. 

To capture interest, one must sound as if 
the project will be fun. Let them share in prep¬ 


aration, setting up their corner, picking mate¬ 
rials. Encourage their friends to join them. Be 
relaxed and unconcerned about spills and 
stains to keep everything going happily. All 
this should be in an area where preferably 
unfinished projects can be left undisturbed. 

Encourage but don’t push as children don’t 
have the manual skill or attention span that 
adults do. Show them what to do if they ask for 
help but don’t take over yourself - that will 
only discourage children. 

Be generous with praise. Nothing uplifts or 
encourages a child more. The smile on their 
faces won’t be forgotten easily. 

Have a goal for the finished project - dis¬ 
play, gift etc. is important in maintaining a 
child’s enthusiasm. 

Don’t expect any child to be an artist, but do 
expect and hope that they will grow up to be 
the kind of people who are creative in living, in 
their responses to people, to things and the 
world about them. 


9 



CAMP 

COUNSELLORS 
CARE... 




/v 


NATIONAL CAMPING DAY 




The Canadian Camping Association invites you 
to participate and support organized 
camping in Canada. 







NATIONAL CAMPING DAY I POEM 


by: Mamie Ellis, P.R. & Promotion Chairperson 


As a result of the CCA Task Force and the 
original five-year plan, the CCA Executive and 
Board have been working on this project for 
the last 18 months. The result of this work was 
the pre-Congress workshop held in Toronto on 
January 25 and 26,1983. Representatives from 
the nine member provinces were in attend¬ 
ance to learn more about promotion of the 
Canadian Camping Association, the provin¬ 
cial associations and the camping movement, 
as a whole. 

The second day of the workshop was about 
National Camping Day. Each of the delegates 
was then encouraged to return to his or her 
own province, and share the information with 
the other Directors. 

National Camping Day was chosen as April 
14 by the Board of CCA at its meeting last May 
in Saskatoon. The rationale included the 
length of time between the pre-Congress 
workshop and that day, enough to be able to 
let all Directors know; and the time of year - 
still early enough that the publicity would ben¬ 
efit the majority of camps doing their registra¬ 
tion. 

The long-term goal of National Camping 
Day is to educate the public about camps in 
Canada, and to spotlight ourselves enough to 


get a fund-raising commitment so that CCA 
can expand its services to its member camps. 
Plans for National Camping Day, 1984 are al¬ 
ready underway as a result of the pre- 
Congress workshop, and you will hear more 
about it in the next issue. 

There were 18 delegates at the workshop. 
This is an enormous project for such a small 
core group. All CCA Board members are also 
on the team to bring National Camping Day 
about. 

National Camping Day 1983 is just a seed 
for a much bigger endeavour. An annual event 
such as this can be of real importance and 
assistance to every camper and staff in this 
country. This year we may not be able to make 
every person aware of our programs, but we 
can certainly touch some new people, and if 
we do this well, each year that comes, it will be 
a little easier. Next year we may have place¬ 
ments at McDonalds for a week, the following 
we may have financial support from a national 
company. These are dreams, but where would 
any of us be without them? Together, we can 
accomplish almost anything. 

So, come on, join the team. Make some¬ 
thing happen 

NATIONAL CAMPING DAY IS FOR YOU! 


COMING SOON 


A MAN FOR EVERY WOMAN 

For every woman who is tired of acting weak 
when she knows she is strong, there is a 
man who is tired of appearing strong 
when he feels vulnerable; 

For every woman who is tired of acting dumb, 
there is a man who is burdened with the 
constant expectation of “knowing 
everything”; 

For every woman who is tired of being called 
“an emotional female”, there is a man 
who is denied the right to weep and to be 
gentle; 

For every woman who is called unfeminine 
when she competes, there is a man for 
whom competition is the only way to 
prove his masculinity; 

For every woman who is tired of being a sex 
object, there is a man who must worry 
about his potency; 

For every woman who feels “tied down” by 
her children, there is a man who is denied 
the full pleasure of shared parenthood; 

For every woman who is denied meaningful 
employment or equal pay, there is a man 
who must bear full financial 
responsibility for another human being; 

For every woman who was not taught the 
intricacies of an automobile, there is a 
man who was not taught the satisfaction 
of cooking; 

For every woman who takes a step toward her 
own liberation, there is a man who finds 
the way to freedom has been made a little 
easier. 

Anonymous 


CIT MANUAL 


• A PRACTICAL MANUAL FOR 
COUNSELLOR-IN-TRAINING PROGRAMS./ 

• WITH HANDY INSTRUCTOR INSERT / 

NOTES. L 

• AVAILABLE MAY 1st,1983. S 

• PLAN TO USE THIS VALUABLE GUIDE ? 

FOR YOUR CIT PROGRAM. ' 

Published by 



Canadian camping association ^ 
association des camps du Canada 


11 




Thanks for the Memories 


The first International Camping Congress was 
held at the Sheraton Centre in Toronto last 
January 26*28,1983. Over 1000 delegates from 
around the world - Japan, England, New 
Zealand, United States, Australia, Norway and 
Canada participated in over 90 sessions of¬ 
fered. 

I was very fortunate to be a part of this 
delegation - a first in the universal camping 
world and a first for Canada. There were 16 of 
us from Saskatchewan. Through a $5000.00 
travel grant from Sask. Sport, 15 Saskatche¬ 
wan Camping Association members were 
able to go. One person went on his own. 

The effort put forth by those heading up 
this event was superb! It was four years in the 
planning stages. 

A dream had come true for me Wednesday 
evening (Jan. 26) at 8:00 pm when Sir Edmund 
Hillary - the first person ever to scale Mt. 
Everest, gave the Keynote Address on “Camp¬ 
ing is for Everyone”. He is so full of energy. I 
shook his hand and gave him a Saskatchewan 
souvenir pin. 

The next three days were filled with multi¬ 
tude of different sessions and you had to pick 
out the sessions you wanted to attend. The 
speakers for all sessions were top notch from 
around the world. 

The first session I attended was “Insur¬ 
ance: Protect Your Assets”, headed up by two 
representatives from a large insurance com¬ 
pany in Toronto. 

The second one was on “Legal Liability of 
Organized Camps and Youth Operations” and 
included an overview of legal concepts and 
their implications; aspects of supervision; 
conducting activities - such as high adven¬ 
ture programs with risk management and en¬ 
vironmental conditions by Betty van der 
Smissen, from Bowling Green, Ohio. This was 
suDer. 


The third session was “Good Grief” - about 
dealing with death at camp. Either a camper 
has recently experienced it in their home or a 
death occurs at home while the camper is at 
camp or, a death happens at camp. This ses¬ 
sion was excellent and the speaker was John 
Saynor, a former camp director who is now an 
undertaker in Toronto. 

Fourthly was “Camper Safety and the Law”, 
dwelling on legal responsibility for camper 
injury, common areas of litigation and appro¬ 
priate preventative measures, and run by Dr. 
Robert E. Wilkinson, from McGill University, 
Montreal. This was super as well. 

The fifth one was on “Communicating 
Christian Values in Camp”, presented by Dave 
Loewen from Winnipeg. He discussed what 
Christian values are and why camps are well 
suited to communicate them; the counsellor’s 
role and administrative aspects of communi¬ 
cating Christian values. This was really good. 

The sixth session I chose was “Sunship 
Earth” by Steve Van Matre, from Illinois. This 
was an excellent presentation on awareness 
of our planet earth and our relationship with 
the earth. 

Bill March, from Calgary, the leader for the 
Canadian Everest team was in attendance 
and gave a session on their recent ascent on 
Mt. Everest - fantastic! 

Thursday, (Jan. 27) morning, after breakfast 
we were entertained by comedian Dave Broad- 
foot. He was great. 

Friday, (Jan. 28) morning, the guest speaker 
after breakfast was Dr. Alec Dickson, from 
England. He spoke on “Camping and Caring: 
Crossing New Frontiers”. This was really 
good. 

The whole event was so friendly, warm and 
hospitable. The speakers would mix and visit 
with us “novices". Sir Edmund acted just like 
another camper. There were no levels of per¬ 


sonal achievement when it came to visiting. 

I was talking to a man from Texas and he 
couldn’t believe how cold it was when I left 
home Wed. Jan. 26 morning (-25°F). And, while 
in the elevator two men were talking and they 
were from Alabama and I said “Just keep talk¬ 
ing, I love the way you guys speak!” And the 
one guy turned and said, “We don’t speak 
ma’am, we talk!”. 

In summary, the whole event was a Super 
Success. It just went so fast. The theme for the 
Congress was “Together We Are Stronger” 
and we realized how true this was. 

At the closing banquet Saturday (Jan. 29) 
night, there were 1100 delegates, plus a head 
table. After a slide presentation on “The Uni¬ 
versal Child” by Jay Haddad and Doug 
Caldwell, the keynote speaker was Dr. Leo F. 
Buscaglia, from California - a dynamic person 
who spoke on “Coming Together in Love from I 
and Me to Us and We”. This was just a super 
ending to such a fantastic week. 

The next International Camping Congress 
is planned for 1987 in Washington, D.C. 

It was quite emotional at the end, saying 
good-bye to so many new and close friends, 
knowing I would never see them again nor 
experience this same atmosphere ever again. 

I truly appreciate the Saskatchewan Camp¬ 
ing Association for choosing me to attend on 
their behalf. I have gained so much! 

Thanks also to the Canadian Camping As¬ 
sociation and to John Latimer’s Congress 
Steering Committee for making this dream 
come true. 


Joan Scott 
Chairman 

United Church Camps 
Saskatchewan 



INTERNATIONAL CAMPING CONGRESS 
C0NGRES INTERNATIONAL DES CAMPS 






12 













SPRING CLEANING TIME 

by: Mary Casey, R.N. 


Perhaps you did it last September but if not, 
now is the time to clean out the medication 
cupboard at camp. Each year we should, in 
consultation with our medical staff, literally 
clear the shelves as well as purge the inven¬ 
tory of unwanted medications. It is easy to get 
in a rut and re-order the same supplies year 
after year. We all have our pet remedies but 
have we looked at them with a scientific eye 
and questioned why we use them? 

The types of oral medications required at 
camp are not numerous. The old motto, “Keep 
it Simple”, is a good one. The following cate¬ 
gories are suggested: 

• analgesics for pain 

• antihistamines for allergic reactions 

• antitussives for coughs 

• decongestants for colds 

• laxatives for constipation. 

It is a good principle to use household reme¬ 
dies as often as possible since these are usu¬ 
ally effective and always less costly. For 
example, sore throats are well treated with 
regular salt-water gargles and hard candy. 
Small hard candies avoid the expense of loz¬ 
enges. In addition, some brands of lozenges 
contain an anesthetic ingredient with a name 
ending with the letters “caine”. These should 
be avoided since the use of such an ingredient 
may cause future reaction to novaccaine used 
by the dentist or the surgeon. Upset stomachs 
are well treated with a dry cracker and/or a 
small amount of milk. The problem usually 
does not call for an antiacid and can often be 
traced to tension. Antiacids contain mineral 
compounds that are undesirable for children; 
some antiacids contain combinations of com¬ 
pounds that actually cause irritation of the 
stomach lining. When purchasing cough 
syrups and decongestants try to obtain “one 
remedy” brands. They are not easy to find but 
their use avoids overdosing, during a cold, 
with excessive antihistamines or deconges¬ 
tants. 

Just a word about aspirin seems called for 
here. Concern about the use of the aspirin 
(acetylsalicylic acid), an analgesic, has been 
expressed in the media recently. It seems that 
some victims of the disease called Reye’s Syn¬ 
drome in U.S.A. had been given aspirin during 
a preceding fever, influenza or chickenpox. 
The relationship has not been established 
but, even so, Dr. James C. Fallis, the Director 
of the Emergency Medical Services at To¬ 
ronto’s Hospital for Sick Children and long¬ 
time camp physician sends the following 
statement: 

Current knowledge suggests that 

acetaminophen is probably the 

antipyretic (fever reducer) of choice for 

stocking a camp infirmary. Care should 

be taken to use the correct dose. 


Thus aspirin is still suggested to handle 
headache, earache, toothache and menstrual 
pain where there is no fever. The alternaive, 
acetaminophen, is suggested for the 
treatment of fever. 

Back to your housecleaning. If in doubt, 
throw it out. Look over your medications and 
check for expiry dates, broken packages, 
cracked bottles, remedies with duplicate 
action and look for those that are 
unnecessary because home remedies work 
as well. Dispose of medications that are not 
recommended in current medical practice. 

The reason for such a detailed inspection of 
the medications is, of course, mainly in the 
interest of safety. Old medications can lose 
their effectiveness or the properties of their 
compounds can alter, over time. Liquids may 
evaporate leaving an excess of one element 
which could be harmful when ingested. 
Broken containers allow dust and dirt to 
accumulate in the ointment or tablets. As well 
as concern for safety, we are trying to teach 
good health practices at camp and so we 
should demonstrate the fact that it is not 
advisable or necessary to take a pill or potion 
for every discomfort. Some of the physical 
ailments at camp are caused by relationship 
difficulties or fears and we can show campers 
and staff how a few minutes of meaningful 
conversation can ease many problems. 

When used, medications and treatments 
should be as simple as possible. Close 
supervision and yearly evaluations can assure 
such simplicity. Now is the time to review your 
medical inventory while the medical 
consultants have time and before supplies 
must be ordered. Be ruthless in your 
examination of those old favourites. Spring 
cleaning time is now! 


Camp Music Idea 

by: Marjorie Booth 
Executive Director 

“Thank You Lord” has been sung for years as 
a chapel hymn or grace in many Canadian 
Camps. Recently, we used this beautiful song 
as Grace for our Closing Banquet at the Inter¬ 
national Camping Congress. 

This song was featured as the youth hymn 
forour Scout-Guide Church Service to honour 
Lord & Lady Baden-Powell, on the annual 
“Thinking Day”, February 22nd. The second 
verse was new to us, so Canadian Camping is 
happy to share it with you now. 

THANK YOU LORD 


r 


\ 



Thank you Lord on this day, 

For our many good blessings; 

Thank you Lord on this day, 

For our many good friendships. 

Glory to God 

May You hear our prayer, 

Guide us on forever. 

Thank you Lord on this day 
For our blessings & friendships. 

Lord we pray as we go, 

Into all of Life’s promise, 

That each day we may know 
You are calling us onward. 

Glory to God 

May You hear our prayer, 

Guide us on forever, 

So each day we may know 
You are calling us onward. 

(Sung to the tune: Edelweiss) 

- Anonymous 


13 



Janice de Long 


GROUP DYNAMICS EXERCISE 

by: Jay Haddad 


This is a mixer game - the kind of game you 
can use on an opening night with staff in 
pre-camp. John Latimer often uses these 
kinds of mixers at staff reunions in the city; he 
provided us with this “Object Contest” and 
this has been used at camp as well. 

Several objects are placed on a table and a 
sheet with the 26 numbered items is given to 
each group. The group’s task is to match the 
object with the numbered clue on the list. 
Groups of three or four are ideal; it’s important 
to give only one piece of paper to each group 
to keep them in close physical proximity as 
they play the game. 

Obviously, many variations could be made 
from this basic theme - you could make it 
much simpler for twelve year olds or you could 
collect all natural objects and create your own 
game based on a “nature” or “environment” 
theme. 

You can impose a time limit or leave it open; 
it’s often fun to help a group having difficulty 
getting untracked so circulate and mingle as 
the facilitator. The point of the exercise is to 
have fun, laugh and bring people together. If 
you’ve never played Object Contest, you’ll 
soon discover it achieves all three objectives. 




OBJECT CONTEST 

1. An athlete - 

2. To cover defeat -- 

3. A game of hockey - 

4. Something to adore - 

5. Deer in winter - 

6. Common sense - 

7. Seen at a ball game - 

8. Bygone days - 

9. It’s done in temper - 

10. A telegram - 

11. You’d do this with a sailboat - 

12. A conjunction - 

13. Your wife would love this coat _ 

14. Don’t make this of yourself (corny) - 

15. A disagreeable old woman - 

16. Something you do with gloves - 

17. Queel Elizabeth - 

18. A person from Finland - 

19. A couple of small pieces - 

20. A chunk of tobacco - 

21. A section of artillery - 

22. Roy Roger’s dog - 

23. An inmate of a mental hospital - 

24. Mould together - 

25. To run suddenly - 

26. Strands of hair - 


Objects to place on a table (correct answer in brackets) 

piece of wire (10) 
tack (11) 


tumbler (1) 
socks (2) 
match (3) 
key (4) 
eggs (5) 

2 pennies (6) 
pitcher (7) 
dated calendar (8) 
stamp (9) 


cigarette but (12) 
seal (13) 
ashes (14) 
bat (15) 
box (16) 
ruler (17) 

5 dollar bill (Finn) (18) 


25 cent piece (two bits) (19) 

plug (20) 

battery (21) 

bullet (22) 

nut (23) 

fuse (24) 

bolt (25) 

lock (26) 


14 


BOOK REVIEW by: Marnie Ellis 


LEGACY TO A CAMPER by Jocelyn Palm 

A Canadian Camping Association Publication 
This book is dedicated to Mary S. Edgar, who 
has left us a rich legacy of leadership and love; 
and to all of us who are involved in camping, 
because we have caught her dreams. 

Not only is this book dedicated to us, but it 
is a real gift to us - a gift from both Mary Edgar 
and Jocelyn Palm. It’s a delightful book-com¬ 
bining fact and fantasy; history and poetry. 

From its cover, which is Glen Bernard’s col¬ 
ours, to the title from one of Mary’s own 
poems, to the wealth of photographs span¬ 
ning fifty-two years, this book is informative, 
interesting and inspirational. 

The author, Jocelyn Palm, is the President 
of the Canadian Camping Association. She is 
also current owner and director of Glen 
Bernard Camp and National Director of the 
Royal Life Saving Society of Canada. She 
worked at Glen Bernard from 1959 until 1965 
and knew Miss Edgar well. It is this personal 
insight, as well as the input from campers Dr. 

Publications 
New Books 

NEW CAMP ADMINISTRATION 

Books published by the American Camping 
Association, available from the CCA Book¬ 
store. 

Decentralized Camping $14.00 

Lois Goodrich 

A handbook on how to administer and pro¬ 
gram for outdoor living in small groups. All 
aspects are discussed: how to begin, selec¬ 
tion of staff, pre-camp training, nutrition, the 
health program, preparing campers and par¬ 
ents, the camp program and how it affects 
individual campers. Shelters, buildings, 
budgets and maintenance are also covered. 
183 p. 1982. 

Project STRETCH: 

Camp Administration Series 

Making Effective Workshops Happen $3.00 

Denise Robinson 

The author discusses the whole range of infor¬ 
mation in workshop planning, from identifying 
audience needs to evaluation. Included are 
sections on setting goals and objectives, or¬ 
ganizing the program, and identifying re¬ 
sources and barriers. To illustrate the 
suggested procedures an example of one type 
of workshop (an awareness workshop on serv¬ 
ing disabled campers) a resource packet is 
also available. lOp. 1982. 

Awareness Workshop Resource Packet $5.50 

Serving persons with disabilities through 
camping. 37p. 1982. 


Mary Northway and Maria McCollum Wilson; 
and former owner/directors Barbara and John 
Gilchrist that give this book its charm. 

While covering beautifully the history of 
Glen Bernard Camp from 1922 to 1973, this is 
not just the story of one private camp in On¬ 
tario. It speaks to a greater audience than just 
the alumnae of GBC because it is the story of a 
pioneer woman of Canada - Mary S. Edgar - 
who followed her dream and created the first 
Canadian private camp for girls. It awakens in 
the reader the real meaning of camping and 
why we are still involved today. 

Mary Edgar’s poetry is familiar to most of 
us. There are selections throughout the book, 
emphasizing program ideas, or allowing Mary 
S. to tell some of her own story. The final 48 
pages give thematic discussion ideas for 
camps, highlighted by Mary’s poems. 

Between the blue and gold covers, you will 
find a friend in Mary Edgar. A person who saw 
a need and met it; who loved the out-of-doors 
passionately; a person who led the way for 


Perspectives on Camp Administration $9.00 
Elizabeth Farley, Editor 

An excellent resource for the experienced 
camp director or one who is considering entry 
into the field. A collection of magazine articles 
from various publications and newly written 
materials have been compiled around specific 
topics: Philosophic Foundations and Consid¬ 
erations, Life Span Development, Administra¬ 
tion and Organization, The Camp Program, 
Programs for Handicapped Campers, and a 
View to the Future. 125 p. 1982. 


those of us who find delight in play and in life. 
You will find historical information on camp¬ 
ing in Canada and the foundations of the 
present CCA. Included are numerous ideas for 
camp programs you might not have tried, and 
some new twists on those you have. 

This would be an excellent gift for those 
CITs who work so hard for you; for volunteers; 
special staff; for senior camper awards. It is a 
legacy of another kind, as well. All proceeds of 
the sale of LEGACY TO A CAMPER go to the 
Canadian Camping Association. 

I purchased a copy of this book at the Inter¬ 
national Camping Congress and had it auto¬ 
graphed by the author. It’s a possession I will 
long treasure. The book is presently available 
through the CCA, and when Jocelyn is next in 
your area, I know she would sign copies for 
you. Do yourself a favour, and benefit from the 
gifts of two special people. 

LEGACY TO A CAMPER © 1982 is available 
from the CCA/ACC Publications Service for 
$7.95 plus shipping ($2.00). 


Trainer Guides 

Sue Stein, Editor 

Developed by Project Stretch, these four 
trainer guides are the result of three years of 
monitoring camp director education pro¬ 


grams. 

Trainer Guide: 

Food Service Managerial 28p. $3.50 

Trainer Guide: Health and 

Safety Managerial 27 p. $3.50 

Trainer Guide: Business and 

Finance Managerial 32 p. $3.50 

Trainer Guide: Site and 

Facilities Managerial 29 p. $3.50 



15 



INTRODUCING 

THE LATEST CCA PUBLICATION 


LEGACY TO A CAM PER 
THE STORY OF MARYS. EDGAR 

1983 

First Edition 
now available 
$ 7.95 


INCLUDES: 

• The biography of Mary S. Edgar who was a pioneer in children’s camping and a faithful supporter of the Canadian and Ontario 
Camping Associations; the YWCA, CGITand the Girl Guides of Canada. 

• Mary S. Edgar was the author of prose and poetry for campers; 38 of her best loved verses are a part of this new book. 

• Also included are a variety of themes and inspiration for campfires, quiet times and chapel programs. 

• An excellent resource for camp counsellors. 

• Of specific interest to those who knew Mary S. Edgar and know about Glen Bernard Camp which she founded in 1922 at 
Sundridge, Ontario. 

ORDER FROM CCA Bookstore. 

SHIPPING RATES: 

$20.00 or less, order must be Prepaid with $2.00 included for shipping. 

$20.01 - $50.00, order may be billed. Shipping rate will be $3.00. 

More than $50.00 - shipping rate will be determined per order. 

Dealer inquiries for bulk orders are invited. Prices on request. 



Blender Breakfasts: 

BANANA ORANGE 

2Vz cups milk 

2 eggs 

1 medium banana, quartered 

2 tbsp. liquid honey 

Va cup frozen orange juice concentrate, 

thawed 

Makes 4 cups. 


Mena Feature 

courtesy 

Milk Marketing Board 

PINEAPPLE GRAPEFRUIT 
WHIZ 

2 cups milk 
2 eggs 

x h cup crushed pineapple 

2 tbsp. honey 

V 3 cup frozen grapefruit concentrate, 

thawed 

Makes 3 cups. 


STRAWBERRY FROST 

2 cups milk 

2 eggs 

1 cup sliced frozen strawberries, thawed 

Blend until smooth. Makes 4 cups. 

Combine ingredients for each drink in blender 
container. Cover and blend at high speed until 
smooth. 









Congress Photo Competition 


Many delegates and even non-delegates submitted photographs to the International Camping 
Congress Photo Competition. The entries were terrific! After much deliberation, the following 
persons’ photographs were selected as winners in each category. 


CANADA: 

Activities 


Emotion 


Nature 


1: Daniel Vokey - The Wall 

2: Sharon Hodgins - Camp Wanapetei - Jumpers 

3: Peter Lorriman - Canoe Trip 

1: David Godwin - John Bosco Camp - Mudgames 
2: David Latimer - Camp Mazinaw - Boy with a Pack 
3: Gail Parsons - Boy on a Rock 

1: Pamela Robbins - The Loon 

2: David Godwin - John Rosco Camp - Sunset 

3: Richard Shikatani - Owls 


UNITED STATES: 


Activities 1 

2 
3 

Emotion 1 

2 
3 

Nature 1 

2 
3 

INTERNATIONAL: 

Activities 1 

2 

Emotion 1 

2 

Nature 1 


2: 


Steve Spencer - Boys Clubs of Memphis - Archer 
Steve Merriman - Kiwanis Camp Wyman - Old Couple 
Jessica Barest - Belvoir Terrace - Dance Shoes 

Teresa Beck - Easter Seals of Wyman Colorado - Wheelchair 
Lorraine Whilby - Girl Guides of Rhode Island - Flag Patrol 
Boy Scouts of America - Texas - Rock Climber 

Boy Scouts of America - Texas - River Scene 

Marcia Day - Wisconsin - Ice Flow 

Lorraine Wilby - Girl Guides of Rhode Island - Girls on a Log 

Phillip Neal - Birmingham, England - Perry Common Comp. - Boat 
Jan James - Mynna Bay, Australia 

Jan James 
Phillip Neal 

Jan James - Hear the Sea 
Phillip Neal - The Matterhorn 



Two original designs are included in this gift package of 6 Hasti-notes. Kate Anthony’s drawings were created for campers everywhere. These blank 
cards are packaged with envelopes and sell for only $3.00 each. Bulk orders (over 20) for camp stores and tuck shops will be offered a discount of 10%. 
Bulk orders may be billed; all other orders must be pre-paid. 

NAME ---- Please send me_packages of the Hasti-notes @ $3.00 each. 

ADDRESS: (mailing)_ Amount enclosed $__ 

-Please invoice_P.O. Number_ 

These are a limited edition - order now to avoid disappointment! Signature_ 


17 







WINNING PHOTO! 



WANTED 

Graduate Teaching Assistantships 
Northern Illinois University 

More than twelve assistantships are available 
for graduate study in outdoor teacher educa¬ 
tion at the Lorado Taft Field Campus. Master’s 
degrees may be earned while teaching univer¬ 
sity and public school students in outdoor 
settings. The assistantships carry a tuition 
waiver for three semesters and a monthly sti¬ 
pend of $300. Room and board at the Taft 
Campus is included in the assistantship. Ap¬ 
plicants for assistantships for 1983-84 (begin¬ 
ning August 21st) will be selected soon. 
Several openings are available in January 
1984. Write for applications and course infor¬ 
mation within the next few weeks. Direct inqui¬ 
ries to Dr. Clifford E. Knapp, Lorado Taft Field 
Campus, Oregon, Illinois 61061. 


Our winning submission this issue was photographed by 
Alice Shogilev, Bramalea, Ontario 


Mowing your lawn 
is a lot cheaper than 
joining a health club 




Physical Activity Week 


May15-23,1983 


18 





Dispose of camp food 
service problems with 

royal Chinet 

disposable plates and bowls 

Strong, attractive Royal CHINET food service products help you ... 

• DISPOSE OF DISHWASHING COSTS 

Cut the expense of installing, maintaining and manning equipment 
that is used only a few months of the year. 

• DISPOSE OF BREAKAGE 

Save yourself the trouble and expense of buying matching replace¬ 
ments for pieces that crack, chip and shatter. 

• DISPOSE OF FOOD WASTE 

You get exact portion control with Royal CHINET’s wide range of 
sizes in regular and compartmented designs. 

• DISPOSE OF GERM COLLECTORS 

Royal CHINET products are sterilized when manufactured and 
packaged. And there’s never a germ-collecting chip, crack or 
poorly washed dish. 

• DISPOSE OF IRRITATING NOISE 

Disposable service is silent service. Meals are relaxed without the 
clatter and crash of china or metal. 

ENVIRONMENTAL ADVANTAGES, TOO 

All good campers want to protect the environment. Royal CHINET prod¬ 
ucts are manufactured from a renewable resource. What’s more, they're 
biodegradable ... molded of natural wood fibres that burn readily with 
little smoke. Even if discarded out-of-doors, Royal CHINET quickly de¬ 
composes in the earth. 

Get the full particulars now. Mail this coupon today. 

j-- 

1 CKF Inc 

HANTSPORT, NOVA SCOTIA, BOP IPO 

Please provide me with details of the variety and costs of Royal 
CHINET food service products. 



t 


NAME_ 

COMPANY or CAMP 
ADDRESS _ 







r, v W.VTYy V r ?y 


'sssaaav 


•3000 IVlSOd/AOdd/AllO 
—: 3IAIVN 


:/v\O|0q p©;s©nb©j uoqBWJOju! juud 'p 

aaruvNOis --# aavo 


: 31Va AaidXd (euo>|O0go) : ( ) (VSIA) X393VH0 : ( )aaV0a31SVW 

:6uimohoj ©qj 6uq©|duuoo Aq posn 0q Aetu (VSIA) XdOdVHO JO aaVOddlSVW 
ZA2 381 bpbubq ‘oubjuo ‘uueq>pen ‘©nu©Av >pBd euopjA 6 PPL ‘VOVNVO 30 S3AIH0HV OlOflV o\ ©iqBAsd j©pjo A©uouj jo 0nb0qo ©>jBn ’£ 

S0U9SSBO 9 jo j0pjo qoB© qq/v\ ©©jj popnpu! s.i J©puiq ©uasseo AqABO-xjs v Z 
'(papnpu! 6UIMBUJ $ xbj) 6$ ie ©uasseo ©uo siu©s©jd©j J0quunu 

M0B3 ‘2C 4 ue ‘08 ‘62 ‘82 tz ‘92 ‘92 >2 ‘22 ‘L2 ‘02 ‘8U‘ZU 9U‘VGU‘91 ‘Cl‘2U‘Ul-‘OU‘6 ‘8 ‘V9 ‘9 ‘9 >‘8 \ Oil (s)j©qujnu ©poo ©jeudOJddB ©qj ©pjjQ *|. 

llVIfl A8 H3QH0 01 


B!|6eosna o©n jo 

AJJJBH P|ABQ A©d 
©JOUJ0SOO1 d ‘J0JBJ0 M ‘suj6poH a 

junn uqjeiAJ 

|B©n d!MMd 

S0UJBP UBp 

s/v\©jpu v ma 
ddeuy pjojjiio 
uBqeus0jg ||ig 

M0“| U©>j 
qjJOMBH UB| 

uosuwhm -g-y jo 
>|0!MJJBH |JB>| ua 
j©puBX©|v lu/\A ‘siJ©qoa Tn 

S 0 MO~| Ajjeg 

qsi|0iqo>i jJ©qoa 
jouAeg uqop 
s©uj|OH qog -A©y 
Men *g ‘j©j|BMHJng i 

UOS^OjQ O0)V *JQ 

A 0 |ju©g j©j©d 
pue|©doQ 6 ©jo 
uosui^maa uqop 

uossjuus Jap uba Auaa 
UOSJB©d uqop 
Aqdjnn ejeqjeg 
uu|Bd uAjooop 
Ajbimh punuupg jjs 
SU3XV3dS 


.. .3M, QNV ,SH, 01 »3IAIt ONV .1. WOdd -3A01 Nl a3H13901 9NIW00,, *8 001 

„Hsna avons 3 hi ni ONiNivai diHsadavdi 6iva ohm,, 28 001 
wdWVO IV 0NI30NV0 a31VM31IHM 3dVS„ IZ 001 

..swvaooad adivuiNi addwvo„ 08 001 
.,>m 3H1 Nl NOIlVOnad aooaino S 1VlN3IAINOaiAN3„ 62 001 
uddVLS a331NmOA Wd31 laOHS aod ONINIVai ddVIS,, 82 ooi 

uiAjvaooad diAjvo anoA aod ssuiaiiov ivoiooiood,. zz ooi 
uONicnma aiinhiwjoo di/wo do 3anianN s danivN 3 hi„ 92 001 
uONiwnvaooad 39N3 tivho s 3aniN3Aav„ 92 001 
,.S11I>IS 0I33N39 dOd ONIWWVdOOad - S3All03dSa3d 2 d3M0d„ PZ OOI 

„ddvis onv sasdNvo 01 iv3aHiv :snno„ 22 001 

«MV*1 3H1QNVA133VS add WVO„ IZ OOI 
..dNIOIOdW SSdNddailM,, 02 OOI 
uiisomv - N0llVmVA3 9NIN31V3aHl*N0N„ 21 OOI 
(ponuquoo) „* * • 3Aa3S30 ddVIS anOA,. LI OOI 
„N0ISIAa3dDS 0009 3Aa3S30 ddVLS aflOA,. 91 OOI 
(ponuquoo)* * :30afl0S3a IVafUVN !S31V3a9 anoA ONIddVl,, V91 OOI 
.iddvis anoA :3oanos3a ivanivN is3iv3ao anoA ONiddvi,, si ooi 

..id3ia9 Q009„ HOOI 
„3 woh dnoao 01 diAivo woad :ad93“iiAiadadaNn 3 hi„ zi ooi 
..Ainiavsia v hum SNOsadd hum 9Nid wvo„ zi ooi 
.,Sa3llN0ad M3N 9NISSOHO ^ONIdVO S ONIdlAIVO,, II OOI 
i.ONidiMvo aiaoM aaiHi,, oi ooi 
„lN3WNOaiAN3 IVnSIA 3H1„ 6 OOI 

„ s .08 3H1 Nl *HOM HlflOA dOd SdAllVaddlAII,, 8 OOI 
(p©nuquoo) „* * * SdlAJVO 03ZINV9a0 dO AllliaVIl 1V931,, V9 OOI 
.,SN0llVZINV9a0 HinOA ^ SdlAJVO 03ZINV9a0 do Ainiavn 1V931,» 9 OOI 

..diHsadNiavd 3Aiiv3ao v :aavoa d^vo 3Hi 2 aoiodaia,, 9 001 
..vnvHisnv Hinos ni Nonvona3 aooaino,, p ooi 

niav 3H1 do 31V1S 3H1 - dlHSa30V31 dIAIVO.. 8 OOI 
..3NOAadA3 aod SI ONIdWVO,, V OOI 
N0ISS3S 3000 


OUBJUO ‘OiUOJOl ‘8J1U8Q U01BJ81JS 

S86L‘62 - 92 Aj^nunp ‘80U8J8)uoo sssjBuoq BujdLUHO |8U0!}BUJ81U| 

81)} }B 8A|| P8PJ008H 


d|qD||DAy Sd))dSSD^ oipny 


on ‘jo"i 
NO A i 1 3>» 
xoojyvf) T * M * B H W V * MW 
V3V01IHJIM dWV3 
9P L\ 



anaivwv 

iaods 3i z : ;ovanoDN3 
xauds 

an3ivwv moddns 


6UE-800 NSSI 
£861 ONIUdS 
l ON ‘SE "10A 

izc ww oidviNo oiNoaoi 

OVOd 3DN3AV 9081 2 3ims 


opntm.i tip sdiuD.) sop noijnuossn 
uoijnioossn n in dm no imipmwo 











