
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CANADIAN 


ASSOCIATION 


CAMPING 


5f C.C.A. 

ID HARTRY 
ith 

RY BRYANT 
JB^ERT GREGORY 


SECY. BA 
and TREAS. F 


MANITOBA'S 

ARNIE COHEN and PRES, 
DAVID LOEWEN 


NOVA SCOTIA'S' 
MRS. CAMPBELL 
and TOM CREIGHTON 


SASKATCHEWAN'S 
PRES. EILEEN MAYOTTE 


NEWFOUNDLAND'S 
PRES. ERIC RUSSELL 


MARY EDGAR 
Delights 

wilh her poetry 


ONTARIO'S PRtS. 
IVAN ROBiNSON 
and RON JOHNSTONE 
with B.C.'s PRES. 
GRANT McKEEM 


LA BELLE PROVINCE'S 
PRES. L. PERRAS 
with 

BOB LAZANIK and CY BEKOFF 


MEETING 


MARCH, 1970 




























I 

\ 

\ 

\ 


Manufacturers 

of 

the famous 
Quickset 
Quality 
Food Products 
for Camps 
anywhere 
in Canada 
Jelly Powders 
Pudding Powders 
Pie Fillings 
Instant Puddings 
Jiffy Whip 
Cake Mixes 
Cheese Cake Mix 
Table Syrup 
Fruit Beverages 
Hot Chocolate 
Flavorings 
Soup Bases 
Marmalades 
Jams 

Fruit Pie Fillings 
Camp-Rite 



'Tripping at Your Camp?' 


USE 


camp - me 


Economical, ready-to-go food units 
packed in 4 man water - proof 
packages. Just add water, cook, 
and your meal is ready. 

You will be agreeably surprised at 
the prices! 

Ask the ‘ Gibbons Man" for more 
information on Camp-Rite or write 
to us direct. 


GIBBONS FOODS LIMITED 


49 ADVANCE ROAD 


TORONTO 18, CANADA 


TELEPHONE 239-1421 




TABLE OF CONTENTS 


Vol. 22 March, 1970 

Editorial .Ann Prewitt . 

"What I Like to See in My Counsellor" . Ian Fleming and Neil MacLean 

Winter Camping . David Loewen . 

Two Young Counsellors' Thoughts on Homesickness 

How I Cope With a Homesick Camper. Donna Richardson 

The Miserable Homesick Camper . Lela Shepley 

Safety in the Riding Programme . Jaye Hickey.. 

In Memorium: Mrs. Taylor Statten .Charles Plewman 

Recent Studies on the Effects of Nicotine and Smoking . Dr. J. H. Ebbs... 

Variations in the Daily Camp Program 

Now at My Camp. Joyce Bertram 

How We Run Our Daily Program .Colin Hatcher 

A Daily Programme Resume' .Mary June Sanderson 

Making Exceptional Children a Part of the 

Summer Camp Scene. Doreen Kronick 


Cover Montage C.C.A Annual Dinner, Photography Courtesy Camp Ponacka 


No. 2 

... 4 

... 5 

... 5 

6 

7 

9 

... 13 
... 16 

17 

20 

21 

22 


CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

Honorary President— Miss Mary S. Edgar 

President— The Rev. David Hartry, Box 1622, Halifax, N.S. 

Executive Secretary— Barry Bryant, Box 2773, Station "D", Ottawa 4, Ont. 

1st. Vice-President— Mrs. Betty Campbell, 50 Dutch Village Rd., Halifax, N.S. 

2nd Vice-President— Tom Creighton, c/o Box 1165, Halifax, N.S. 

Treasurer— Robert Gregory, c/o Bank of Montreal, Fairview, Halifax, N.S. 

Secretary— Mrs. Gregory Robert, c/o 5770 Tower Terrace, Halifax, N.S. 

Publisher— Broydon Printers Ltd., 164 Sherbrooke St., Peterborough, Ont. 

Editor— Ann Prewitt, Box 1107 Huntsville, Ontario 

Editorial Committee — Don Groff (Chairman), Joyce Bertram, Eanswythe Flynn, Margaret 
Govan, Jean Darrach, Jocelyn Palm, John Latimer, Bruno Morawetz, Jack Pearse, 
Kirk Wipper, Mary L. Northway, Helen Stewart. 

Provincial Representatives — Grant McKeen (B.C.), Colin Hatcher (Alta.), Eileen Mayotte 
(Sask.), Nancy McGregor (Man.), John Latimer (Ont.), Huguette Dagenais (Que.), 
Al Browning (Nfl.), Dick Loiselle (N.S.). 

PAST PRESIDENTS 

*Taylor Statten, Toronto; *Dais L. Gass, Montreal; Anne I. Vail, Montreal; W. E. (Ted) Yard, 
Toronto; Irwin Haladner, Toronto; F. M. VanWagner, Montreal; Kenneth H. Murray, Mon¬ 
treal; Don Smith, Edmonton; Mrs. May Brown, Vancouver; Douglas McEwen, Winnipeg. 

PROVINCIAL OFFICES 

B.C. Camping Association— 616 E. Cordova St., Vancouver 4, B.C. 

Alberta Camping Association— 2402 27th St. S.W., Calgary 4, Alberta. 

Northern Alberta Branch— 10032 - 103rd St., Edmonton 15, Alberta. 

Saskatchewan Camping Association— Box 823, Regine, Sask. 

Manitoba Camping Association— 444 River Avenue, Winnipeg 13, Manitoba. 

Eastern Ontario Camping Conference— 2131 Neepawa Avenue, Ottawa 13, Ontario. 
Ontario Camping Association— 501 Yonge Street, Suite 13, Toronto 200, Ontario. 

Quebec Camping Association— 2233 Belgrave Ave., Montreal 261, Quebec. 

Nova Scotia Camping Association— P.O. Box 1622, Halifax, N.S. 

Newfoundland & Labrador Camping Association— P.O. Box 4188, St. John's, Newfoundland 

























EDITORIAL 


At the recent annual meeting of the Canadian 
Camping Association your Publications Committee 
had a rare opportunity to join with your ProvinciaJ 
presidents in forming new plans for Canadian Camp¬ 
ing Magazine. 

Provincial Representatives of the committee are 
now listed on the masthead. They will keep us fully 
informed of your individual organization' activities in 
the here-to-fore spasmodic column 'NEWS FROM THE 
PROVINCES'. Hoping for 100% participation in the 
next issue the Provincial news is omitted from this 
one, with special apologies to Jack Way of B.C. who 
would have been the only contributor. 


We will be awaiting more articles from across 
Canada including some in the French language. 

Among the suggestions offered were: 'How We 
do It' articles. Letters to the Editor; Camper's Corner, 
Photographs, Cartoons, Administration policies, 
Songs, Poems, Short term Church Camps, and . . . . 
It's YOUR magazine. Your contributions and sugges¬ 
tions are welcome. 


Ann Prewitt: 

Editor; Canadian Camping 


"WHAT I LIKE TO SEE IN MY COUNSELLOR" 


The keynote address presented at the Camp Counsellors 9 Conference , 
York University , May 10 , 1969. 

The presentation teas made by two 12 year-old campers , 
lan Fleming and Neil MacLean. 


IAN—When we were deciding what we would 
talk about today, we found it really hard to remember 
things we didn't like about camp, but, we had a lot 
of fun remembering the good times. 

Today we are going to tell you about things we 
enjoyed at camp, and some of the things we feel 
were not so good. 

We hope that our ideas might help you in your 
counselling this summer. 


NEIL—I am going to tell you about what I like 
to see in MY counsellor. A counsellor should partici¬ 
pate with the kids in the cabin and do most of the 
things with them . . . like helping play a baseball 
game against another cabin ... in this way the 
cabin will always do things together and become a 
good group. 

He should have a sense of humour. That doesn't 
mean that he should be as funny as Bill Cosby, but 
he should be able to appreciate the humour of the 
campers, (continued on page 13) 



Winter Camping 


by David Loeiven 
Director, Camp Ames, Manitoba 


It's the "in thing" and rightly so. Canadians have 
a great country — far beyond the horizons of two 
short summer months. Each season has its very own 
grandeur and we come to experience and enjoy that 
grandeur more fully as we retreat into it each time 
its mood changes. Canadians are increasingly be¬ 
coming excited about the opportunities of the so 
called "off-season". Winterized cottages, and heated 
campers, adult snow suits, the demand for more 
ski slopes and the era of the power toboggan are 
evidence of the changed attitude; "Why fight the 
cold? Enjoy it!" And camps should be leading the 
way into four seasons camping. Camp Arnes (Mani¬ 
toba) is in its third year of winter camping now. The 
demand for rental facilities is so great, we found, 
that we have opened a second site for winter use. 
Many camp directors have inquired about the me¬ 
chanics of off-season camping; let me state the most 
common queries and respond to them. 

Who Is Interested In Winter Camping? 

Predominately high school and university stu¬ 
dents, church youth groups, clubs of various natures, 
private and public schools, and adult conference 
groups. Any existing group or club is likely to be 
in the market for a retreat at a camp. But you, the 
camp director, must awaken this dimension in the 
group, and excite it about the possibility of a retreat 
at your camp. The initial selling job must be done 
by you. 

Do You Run Your Own Programs? 

Definitely! Our summer campers are "our 
groups" and they like nothing better than to see and 
enjoy "their camp" in its winter splendor. The same 
holds true for your staff. They look forward to a 
week-end back at their camp in winter. We run our 
own winter retreats for our teens campers, families 
and couples on a regular basis. We wouldn't miss 
this follow-up opportunity. There's a place for winter 
retreats for children ages ten to twelve also but this 
requires more and better trained staff. 

What Do Winter Retreat Programs Consist of? 

This will depend largely upon the natural re¬ 
sources of the individual camp site and the purpose 
of the retreat. Slopes for tobogganing, tubing or 
skiing are a real attraction. Ski equipment and the 
operation of ski tows isn't cheap. It's much more 
economical to bus the retreaters to a near-by ex¬ 
isting tow. But it's a good idea to invest in snow 
shoes. Snow shoeing is quickly learned and opens 
up otherwise impassable hiking areas. Ice fishing, 
skating, broom ball, and snow sculpturing afford a 
great deal of recreation. (Visit the curling rinks for 
their discarded brooms — they're ideal for broom- 
ball, and free). And don't overlook survival stalking 
and campcrafts. Cooking over an open fire in the 
snow is great excitement. 



Program planning is as important for a winter 
week-end as it is for a summer encampment. 
Whether or not you are responsible for the program, 
you will have to be instrumental in the planning. 
You know what can be done on your site, the rent¬ 
ing group probably doesn't. You know what it takes 
to operate a safe, balanced program, you've done 
it before. Many youth groups or club leaders have 
the funny notion that the kids will get maximum 
enjoyment without a planned program; such groups 
we do not permit to rent our camp. Where there is 
no program there usually is a high degree of misuse 
of camp facilities as well as more opportunity for 
accidents. And I personally feel the goals we set 
for our camping programs during the summer, are 
also realistic for winter week-ends. There should be 
meaningful interaction leading to personal growth; 
and in the case of church camps, spiritual growth. 
Church related camps can program for very attrac¬ 
tive week-end conferences, focusing on a chosen key 
note speaker. 

What Type of Facilities Are Required? 

Work with what you have. Any well-built cabin 
is probably worth winterizing. We have found pro¬ 
pane heat more practical than electric heat because 
it provides instant warmth. Electric heat is very slow, 
although in milder climates this may not be that 
imperative. Or, if you don't mind chores, oil space 
heaters can be picked up cheaply and are very quick¬ 
ly installed into a building. Cabins work out just as 
well as dorms. We have no running water during 
the winter at our camp and the campers like it that 
way. We are fortunate enough to have an artesian 
well which flows year-round, but we discovered 
campers are quite ready to melt snow for their water 
supply. Furthermore, if you have running water, you 
will have to heat your building all winter, or drain 
the pipes each week-end. One is costly, the other 
time consuming; therefore we prefer to carry all our 

(continued on page 25) 


5 





HOW I COPE WITH A HOMESICK CAMPER 

by Donna Richardson 

(II) year old counsellor at Camp Ouareau , Quebec) 


The last of twelve plates of dinner has just been 
served and you are taking one swift glance at the 
faces surrounding you before beginning to eat. Your 
eyes are arrested by one small figure, huddled in 
her seat, head bowed. You know that you will see 
a tear-stained face when that head is raised. 

Homesickness is felt most intensely at certain 
periods of the day, and one of these is mealtime. 
The gnawing realization that she is alone in the 
midst of a great many strangers becomes most pain¬ 
ful to the camper then, and can no longer be stifled. 

In a situation such as this, I take the time to be 
alone with the child as long as she needs me, (even 
if we are missing lunch). This means until those 
heartrendering sobs have ceased, and she is able to 
resume camp activity. She leaves me bearing at least 
the potential for a smile. 

I am always kind and patient during our con¬ 
versation. This is not the occasion for sharp words 
or harsh remonstrances. She will not be able to "snap 
out of it" quickly. Rather, she needs time to tell 
you what is bothering her and time to be comforted. 

It is important to remain cheerful. I remember 
to compliment my expressions of sympathy and con¬ 
cern with a smile, not wishing to increase her un¬ 
happiness by looking depressed myself. 

I also believe that you should touch the child 
physically as well as mentally. I am not afraid to 
put my arm around those quivering shoulders, or to 
give her hand a friendly squeeze. It is comforting 
to a child to have the hair which may be clinging 
to her flushed face brushed away, and to have the 
tears wiped from her eyes. 

The actual pattern that I follow when "coping" 
remains fairly constant. I begin by innocently asking 
what the trouble is. The fact that you don't consider 
this camper a 'homesick type' may inspire her to 
regain her composure more quickly. 

When I ask the camper why she is homesick, 

I can count on one basic cause being revealed; she 
has not made friends with the other girls. Because 
she is lonely, she is not making a very determined 
effort to adjust to camp routine, and has convinced 
herself that she would rather be at home. 'Home' 
is often symbolized by her favourite pet, brother, 
sister, or parent. 

I cope with this situation by working on the 
premise that children have a deep sense of loyalty 



and responsibility. I remind 'Mary' that her parents 
sent her to camp because they thought that she would 
enjoy the experience. They would be unhappy to 
know that this was not so; therefore, she has an 
obligation to like camp. (It is my hope, of course, 
that this seeming burden will quickly change to 
pleasure). 

In the course of our conversation, It is often 
revealed that Mary's father would like her to improve 
some skill while she is at camp; for example, swim¬ 
ming. Again, her parents' hopes can be an incentive 
for Mary to 'like' camp. 

Thus, I listen carefully to what the child is telI- 
me for clues which will enable me to offer sugges¬ 
tions to make her future at camp seem brighter. 

However, having calmed the child and given 
her the motivation to be happy and to achieve, I 
must also guide and support her in obtaining these 
ends. With some behind-the-scenes manipulating I 
may be able to 'find' this lonely one a friend. I keep 
her spirits buoyed up with a cheery 'hello' whenever 
I see her. I alert other counsellors to the situation so 
that they may give this child the extra attention 
which she needs. 

When fate gives me the job of toping with a 
homesick camper, I consider myself lucky. For I have 
to overcome my own awkwardness and embarrasse- 
ment in reaching out to help another human being. 
In the process, we become special friends throughout 
the whole camp period. 

It is reassuring that homesickness can be cured 
quickly, if not instantaneously. When a child is happy, 
problems that once seemed so serious are completely 
forgotten. As counsellors, seeing that each camper 
is happy, is "our business". The steps that I have 
taken time to record here will merely compliment 
your own instinctive ability to 'cope' with a home¬ 
sick camper. 


6 



THE MISERABLE HOMESICK CAMPER 

by Lela Shepley 

(17 year old first year Counsellor at Camp Northway, Ontario) 


Homesickness is one of the worst feelings a 
person can experience. I know, because I spent the 
first two and a half weeks of summer camp wishing 
to Heaven that I wasn't there and that I could be 
home in a nice 'civilized' atmosphere. However, I 
was extremely lucky in that I had a lot of under¬ 
standing people around who eventually eased that 
gnawing knot in my stomach. They stopped my 
crying and coaxed me to come out of my tent and 
enjoy myself. 

And I did enjoy myself. I grew in so many 
ways, and returned to camp the following five sum¬ 
mers eventually becoming a counsellor. Although 
I would never want to repeat those horrible two 
weeks again. I'm thankful that I had the experience 
of being homesick. It gave me an insight to all of 
the frightened and miserable campers I have en¬ 
countered. Here are a few of the ways which I've 
found to be helpful in making a camper more com¬ 
fortable and at ease while being in the throes of 
wishing for home. 

First of all, attention is what counts. And I don't 
mean the kind of attention where a counsellor or 
another camper says, "What's wrong with you? 
You're too old to be homesick, and besides, you're 
not giving this place a chance. All the rest of us 
love it. You would too, if you'd only try". And don't 
dismiss it with, "You'll get over it!" 

This approach is all wrong. A person is never 
too old to be homesick. Whether you're five or fifty, 
you can still feel the pangs of longing to be where 
you are most at ease. 

Secondly, when someone says, "Give this place 
a chance", that automatically makes the camper hate 
it even more. No one likes to admit it's her own 
fault when she's not enjoying something. 

' Lastly, don't say, "EVERYONE loves it here, why 
don't you?" That only makes the camper feel even 
more out of place and that she must be 'weird' if 
she's not like the others. 

So you see, there is a wrong and a right ap¬ 
proach. 

What I have done with homesick campers is 
first talked to them when I realized they were un¬ 
happy. A lot of people are ashamed to admit they're 
homesick, so you have to keep an eye out for them. 
I've always told them that what they were feeling 
was quite familiar to me, and then I'd tell them about 
how much I hated my first time away from home. 
This sets up an atmosphere of trust and usually the 
unhappy one opens up quickly. 


If you can pat her hand and LISTEN, she will 
usually accept what you then have to tell her if 
you can gently persuade her to avoid being alone 
as much as possible, and get her to participate in as 
many activities as she can, it helps. It's especially the 
time a homesick camper spends by herself, doing 
nothing, that lends itself to her thinking about home 
and all the comforts it offers. But for heaven's sake, 
don't persuade her into anything she doesn't want 
to do. 

Tell her that you are always ready to talk to 
her if she feels lonesome, and tell her to find you 
as soon as she begins to feel uncomfortable. Be ready 
to live up to that promise. Don't ever say, "I'm too 
busy. I'll talk to you later". What a confidence des¬ 
troyer! Be around as much as possible and ask other 
understanding campers to include the unhappy one 
in as many things as they can. This not only includes 
the planned activities but also the spontaneous get- 
togethers and 'bull-sessions' ... A camper, when 
asked by one of her peers to join in something, 
will usually go, and she might even have a good 
time. 

What I'm trying to say here is this: be as gen¬ 
erous, loving, and understanding as you can be. Be 
there when someone needs you and listen to what 
she has to say. Deal with her as straightforwardly as 
possible; don't cluck your teeth and say, "Gee, what 
a shame". TELL her how much agony you suffered, 
tell her how much you wanted to be home, tell her 
how much you hated it. In this way, she'll know you 
care, you UNDERSTAND, and that you're willing to 
help. What a homesick camper needs (and having 
been one, I think I can say this in all honesty) is 
to know someone is there who really cares. Even if 
this knowledge doesn't cure the homesickness com¬ 
pletely, it usually eases it a little until the camper 
can handle it herself . . . and that can make all the 
difference. 


POOL MAN Limited 

Water Fun & Safety Items 
Playground* Equipment 
Transha ilers 

Water Pumps and Softeners 
Write for Catalogue 

11 Oakland Ave. 

Weston, Ont. - 244-5513 


7 



YOUR FREE GIFT 
FROM TANDY 

Send today for your new 32-page 
camp flyer . . . with 50 FREE 
coupons worth $25 off any Tandy 
merchandise. 

★ Leathercraft 

★ Plastic Casting 

★ Copper Tooling 

★ Candlecraft 


BOX 340C 
BARRIE, 

IlfUlHM.l'IJj 'll ONTARIO 

Name .< 

Address 


LIGHTNING AND ELECTROCUTION 

Report of Death From Lightning 
and Electrocution 

Shown in recent years years there have been 
an average of 11 deaths from lightning and an 
average of 82 from electrocution. This indicates 
the need for precaution with regard to electri¬ 
city hazards and that perhaps it would be wise 
to caution care on outrips and ensure that dur¬ 
ing severe electrical storms, that individuals are 
not on open bodies of water in metal canoes, 
on heights of land, or in open spaces. 

J.H.E. 

THE ART OF TEACHING NONSWIMMERS 

A report of an article published by Cressy 
A. McCatty, School of Physical and Health Edu¬ 
cation, University of Toronto, in the 'Research 
Quarterly' titled, "The Effects of the Use of a 
Flotation Device in Teaching Nonswimmers." His 
studies showed that there is no evidence that 
the use of a flotation device accelerates the 
learning process of non swimmers. However, 
there was a statistically significant difference 
between the scores of pupils taught by two 
different instructors. In other words, it did not 
matter if a flotation was used or not, the signi¬ 
ficant thing was the quality of the instruction 
provided by the individual instructor who, of 
course, vary tremendously. 

J.H.E. 


CLOVER LEAF - The Best in Sleeping Accommodation 



Model No. 1— No-Sag Folding Camp 
Cot - — finished in walnut enamel — 
angle iron or tubular bedsteads (slight 
extra charge) at each end. 


Mattresses — A complete selection of 
quality Mattresses are also available. 


Reinforced heavy duty frames (angle iron) and platforms (special NO-SAG). 

30" wide by 72" long, but these and other specifications may be changed to 
suit your special requirements. 


CLOVER LEAF BEDDING CO. LTD. 


49 RIVALDA ROAD 


742-8792 


WESTON, ONTARIO 









by Jaye Hickey 

Tnstructtess, Camp Ponacka, Ontario 
"Never try out novel ways of 
r g||frhg. into the saddle—you'll 
er|oy sfuitf enough variety 


' 


’Mmtm 


the, (Zi&Uuf PvotyiGMUfie 


Perhaps the most valuable lesson learned 
through any riding programme is the proper applica¬ 
tion of a rider's instinctive "horse sense" and its 
cultivation through a proper programme of study 
and experience. 

In all areas of horsemanship, the correct and 
therefore the safe way must be demonstrated or 
taught. This should be the basic aim of a riding pro¬ 
gramme in the camp setting. It is unrealistic to hope 
that two weeks, even a month, can produce polished 
equestrians. Therefore, camp riding should aim for 
the more functional and desirable end — that of 
basic safety. 

It is logical to assume that the amount of enjoy¬ 
ment, or fear, a camper experiences will depend on 
the degree to which a programme is safety conscious. 
How many children have shied away from the stable 
due to a stepped-on foot or fall from a loose saddle? 
These types have suffered enough from carelessness 
and the only way to dispel fears and repair confi¬ 
dence is to teach a visibly safe, correct manner in 
dealing with horses. 

Initially, a basic understanding of a horse's 
mentality should be explained to the potential horse¬ 


man. It is ineffective to merely state, 'speak before 
approaching, speak before handling, speak before 
moving' and expect a child to benefit more than by 
the advantages gained by memorization of a set of 
rules. A horse has an entire psychology surrounding 
this, type of handling method. A horse learns from 
the voice intonation and manner of speech. He learns 
from the voices of persons from whom he can expect 
kindness. Another example of the same type would 
be the ability to understand that a horse is very 
much a creature of habit; he favours the same thing 
done in the same way and at the same time each 
day. Knowledge of this will decrease chances of a 
child being kicked or bitten due to an unfamiliar 
action or handling routine by the rider. 

It is always a safe suggestion that when working 
with a strange horse, work from the near-side as 
most horses are conditioned to extra action on this 
side. 

A realization of the psychology of a horse's 
actions will often prove to calm an inherently nervous 
rider. Typically, a frightened child is instantly reliev¬ 
ed, forgives, and at times feels a great sympathy for 
a horse who has just tossed him when he is told that 





the animal shied because he was frightened. It comes 
as no surprise when he shows up first at the stable, 
confidence restored, and asks for the same 'ornery' 
horse. 

It is of prime importance that the stable be kept 
clean, uncluttered and relatively neat in order for an 
efficient and safe arrangement. After all, this is where 
95% of the horse and riders time is spent. Well fitted 
helmets should be worn at all times, even when not 
mounted, for protection against bumped heads when 
in the stall. There are various types of hats, but pos¬ 
sibly the best is the schooling helmet. This hat is 
not only impervious to weather conditions but also 
comes equipped with a chin strap for added security. 

Campers should be warned of the dangers of 
loud or sudden noises that may disturb the horses, 
also of trying to hand-feed nippy ponies. 

In standing stalls, shanks should be adjusted to 
an acceptable length. A shank loosely tied facilitates 
bullying and injury occasioned by neck biting or 
rope galls. In tying up a horse, it is best that some 
recognized form of quick-release knot be employed. 
Horses should ideally be crosstied in the aisle or box 
stall when grooming or tacking up in order to dis¬ 
courage crowders, biters, or pushers. 

Extra care should be taken to inspect tack be¬ 
fore the horses leave the barn if the campers have 
been allowed to tack up by themselves. Loose 
.girths, a twisted curb chain or saddle pad can cause 
falls for the rider or unwanted irritation for the 
horse. The abrasion from any ill-fitted saddlery ulti¬ 
mately results in the loss of the horse for days at a 
time. 

It is advisable before the opening of the sum¬ 
mer camp that all tack be checked for faults. Saddles 
which pinch the withers, or are overdue for restuff¬ 
ing, any broken or decayed stitching or leather are 
all common faults which, when not checked before 
camp, cannot be corrected. In these cases you will 
run the risk of falls, or saddle galls and sore backs 
due only to the lack of foresight. 

Stable utensils e.i. brooms, pitch forks, hosepipe, 
buckets, should be hung on special hooks placed high 
up on the wall when not in use to minimize the risk 
of injury. 

A well stocked, well organized medicine cabinet 
should be maintained in a restricted area for easy 
access when an emergency arises. Any type of medi¬ 
cation is potential danger in the hands of the inex¬ 
perienced. A carelessly applied bandage can cause 
permanent damage to a tendon or cause irreversible 
flaws in comformation (leg rings caused from an 
overly tight bandage). 

Horses are no exception when it comes to the 
fear of fire. It may seem redundant to vocally forbid 
smoking in the stable area, but a careless stableboy 
(word option; "counsellor") or a forgetful visitor are 



If you enjoy working with 
your hands (so many people 
do), then you will appreciate 
the contents of our new 1970 

CRAFT 

CATALOGUE 

and 

IDEA BOOIC 


Its 132 pages are full of Craft 
ideas, basic instructions and 
materials you can use during 
your creative leisure hours. 
Many craftworkers consider it 
a reference book on contempor¬ 
ary Arts 'n Crafts. So t if you 
enjoy working with your hands 
and would like a compliment¬ 
ary copy, simply send us your 
name and address. 


284-286 KING ST. WEST, 
TORONTO 2B, CANADA 



10 



enoungh reason to warrant a NO SMOKING sign. 

Children, in their eagerness, often forget obvious 
rules set up for their own safety. A disgusted look 
or disheartened moan is not enough to jog the mem¬ 
ory of even the keenest riders. Constant reminders, 
verbal and visual, are in order for safety's sake. 
Helmets kept in clear view of each camper as he 
enters the stable or a red ribbon braided into a 
kickers tail are clear warnings of the potential dan¬ 
ger inherent in all barn settings. 

In The Schooling Area 

Campers should be taught to be quick, quiet 
and efficient in mounting procedures to alleviate the 
pandemonium caused when ten riders all desperately 
require the assistance of one instructor. It is at a time 
of confusion such as this that some one is stepped 
on or a horse trots off into the barn with his rider. 

It is good practice to start each lesson with a 
series of warm-up exercises. These tend to get the 
nervous child's mind off the horse and on his own 
performance. The horse senses the relaxation of the 
rider, and consequently calms down. These exercises 
also make the body more supple, so that strained 
muscles or, in the case of a fall, bruises or breaks, 
will not occur as frequently. 

During walking instruction the riders should 
distribute themselves evenly around the arena and 
there should be, mininally, one horse length between 
horses at all times. During more progressive gaits 
the ride should stay grouped with only the first horse 
moving off at the fastest pace. Not until he has met 
the end of the ride does the next rider proceed. 
Strict adherance to this rule negates the possibility 
of "races", fighting, bucking etc. which inevitably 
occur when the instructor commands, "Everyone 

canter". 

All artifical aids; whips, crops, spurs, should be 
kept out of the hands of the inexperienced. The 
natural aids; legs, seat, hands and voice, should be 
learned properly and efficiently first, and under no 
circumstances should a psychological dependance on 
artificial aids be tolerated. 

On the Trail 

It is particularly essential on the trail that each 
and every rider have his horse sense tuned to high. 
Various, seemingly insignificant, occurances can cause 
near disaster. One startling bark from a dog could 
set the entire ride on a terrifying gallop. The thought¬ 
less instructor who crosses rough terrain or performs 
manoeuvers beyond the abilities of his riders or 
horses, is almost assured of an injury, if not physical 
then a mental scar of fear to a child. 

The items to be checked before the start of a 
trail ride would include a check on girths and the 
proper stirrup length (one shorter than schooling 
length, two shorter than dressage length), a check 
for correct and securely fitting hats, and, for potential 
trouble makers, a check of all red warning ribbons. 


It is a good practice to remind the riders of the 
thoughtlessness of crying 'wolf'. On the trail, novices 
especially tend to get overly excited with the novelty 
of the situation, and upon any irregularity they shout 
for help. It is all in good spirits but on a long ride 
with a large group, it can be a constant heart stopper 
for the concerned instructor. A quiz on the types of 
vegetation or a game or song should be used to 
occupy minds, keeping all spirits channeled into a 
worthwhile learning experience rather than on ex¬ 
hibitionism. 

A martingale or neck strap is advisable for the 
younger or inexperienced rider or on a horse without 
a mame. When travelling over hilly, trappy country 
it is almost essential for the riders' security. 

There are many more facets of riding safety 
which well deserve attention. Those cited are merely 
an indication of the great responsibility a riding 
programme holds for the safety of all concerned. 
If the programme is based on common horse sense 
and if all possible precautions are taken by the in¬ 
structor to teach a correct and safe method in dealing 
with horses, ridjng can be one of the most valuable 
and rewarding camp experiences. 



11 








i 


Quality and personal service is provided by J. H. BEATTIE’S 
for all campers in Ontario. 


Outfitters for.- 


CAMP TAWINGO 

MANITOU-WABING CAMP OF FINE ARTS 
KILCOO CAMP 



Boys’ and Young Men’s 
Clothing 
and 

Furnishings 


430 EGLINTON AVENUE WEST, TORONTO 12 


481-4459 













ORDER NOW FOR BETTER 
ASSORTMENT 

WILL HOLD FOR CAMP OPENING 
LIMITED SUPPLY 

Pre-Camptime Offer of 
Substandards at Generous 
Discounts 

Items not Illustrated: 

• Vegetable Bowl 

• Platter 

• Pitcher 

• Tumbler 

• Creamer and Sugar 

• Salad Servers 

• Jam or Sugar Pot 

• Salt and Peppers 

• Soup Plate 

• Butter Dish and 
Cover 

• Gravy Boat 

Colours: Yellow, 
Green, Coral, Blue 


OUR "VANGUARD" STYLE 
With Draining and Stacking Features 


6tf 

375 Danforth Road, 
Scarborough, Ont. 

698-2545 


2 









2n jdemoriam 


A TRIBUTE TO MRS. TAYLOR STAnEN 

Written at the request of Canadian Camping 
by Mr. Charles F . Pleivman 

With the passing of Mrs. Taylor Statten, 
there went from our midst the surviving 
partner of one of the most remarkable teams 
in Canadian Camping. 

Camp Ahmek for Boys, and Camp Wapo- 
meo for Girls will live as a monument to their 
foresight and love for boys and girls. If Taylor 
Statten by nature and temperament was de¬ 
stined to work in the limelight, Tonakela, by 
the same token, was ordained to labour be¬ 
hind the scenes. 

As I recall it, it was Taylor who decided to 
launch a camp for girls, a girls' camp that 
would be different in that it would mesh 
activities with the boys at Ahmek, but it was 
left to Tonakela to make a dream come true. 

While the next noticeable legacy left by 
the Stattens was their camp in Algonquin, 
their greatest contribution was probably 
made through the camping movement as a 
whole. Certainly no married couple through¬ 
out the first fifty-five years of organized 
camping in Canada contributed as much to 
its enrichment and growth. 

My foremost impression of Tonakela 
throughout all of the years was as the faith¬ 
ful team-mate and supporter of her husband 
in everything he stood for and tried to 



« I 

achieve. Her steadying influence must have 
been a great source of strength to Taylor who 
was cast in a more adventurous mould. 

Behind most men there stands a woman. 
In this case, Tonakela, a quiet, unassuming 
person whose contribution was greater by far 
than one might suppose. 


(continued from page 4) 

A really serious counsellor TAKES THE FUN OUT 
OF CAMPING. 

I like a counsellor who is strict but manages to 
control the cabin, without us knowing it. 

One counsellor I had used to get us to clean the 
cabin by appointing a 'DIRECTOR OF FLOORS' . . . 
'A SUPERINTENDENT' etc. . . . This way cleaning 
the cabin was always fun and we didn't mind doing 
a rotten job . . . besides we usually won the 'CLEAN¬ 
EST CABIN' award. 

This same counsellor used to tease us into doing 
things . . . LIKE ... on a canoe trip he would get us 
moving at top speed by challenging us to see who 
was the strongest. 

I like a counsellor who takes an interest in what 
we are doing EVERY DAY . . . for example . . . how 
we are doing in our crest work, and if we need some 
help . . . giving us a hand. 


I like a counselor who not only does a lot with 
his cabin, but is active in other parts of the camp 
. . . LIKE doing skits in the dining hall . . . OR . . . 
helping in a section programme ... HE makes the 
cabin proud that HE is THEIR leader. 

IAN—I am going to talk about things that I 
don't like in a counsellor. 

If HE doesn't associate very much with the cabin, 
then the kids go off on their own, OR, join a better 
cabin for some things, and THEY never become a 
close cabin group. 

Most of the cabins like to compete against each 
other and the counsellor should help win these 
matches. 

One counsellor at camp used to sit down every 
time we had a race, and watch us run all over the 
place, like on a treasure hunt and NEVER help us 
at all. 

If a counsellor is TOO strict, then everything 
becomes a chore and it isn't fun anymore ... it 
means everything has to be done HIS WAY and 


13 



sometimes the campers, who have some pretty good 
ideas, can't say anything. 

If a counsellor is lazy, then the cabin gets lazy 
too. ... If he sleeps in, so will his campers . . . this 
means they are always late for breakfast and interest 
groups and it usually takes them longer than anyone 
else to do things ... IN OTHER WORDS . . . they 
miss out on a lot of things that other kids get to do. 

This has been pretty hard to talk about because 
MOST of my counsellors have been good, and, if 
you have a good counsellor you will do anything 
for him. 



handicrafts . . . nature lore. 


NEIL—Programmes are important at Camp. . . . 
I am going to tell you about the ones that I really 
liked. 

Anything competitive is really good . . . like 
sports . . . capture the flag ... or hunt the staff. 


You are free to go to whichever group that you 
want to . . . and no one makes you go. ... I think 
that you should be free to go where your interest 
lies. 

I really like the idea of crest work. 


However, sports are JUST AWFUL if they are 
done on a really hot day . . . then they are better 
if they are held in the evening. 

Campfires are always fun as long as you don't 
just sit around and sing songs or tell stories ... I 
like playing Pat and Mike, or challenging other kids 
in Indian Wrestling . . . Campfires are always better 
if you can participate. 

I also like to eat to campfires. 

Once every two weeks at our camp we go on 
an all camp cook out. These are GREAT because 
you get as much to eat as you want, and, you cook 
it yourself. If you don't go on a cookout at your camp 
you should try to get one. ... We all thought these 
were great at our camp. 

All camp programmes are usually pretty good 
. . . like regattas on the waterfront with races in 
swimming and canoeing ... OR a special day like 
a carnival. Then the whole camp takes part. 

I really like hoax programmes. . . . Last year 
there was a mysterious PACKASORUS wandering 
around. ... He could be identified by the pack on 
his back and by the fact that he ate paper. . . . 
Well . . . we finally found paper trails all over camp 
which would disappear on the beach in the woods. 

. . . The whole camp really looked hard for him and 
we finally caught him. ... It was our Director sitting 
in a tree with a pack on his back and with paper 
strewn all over the ground. It was a great program, 
and besides . . . we got all the papers picked up 
around camp. 

IAN—Both of us like interest groups to go to in 
the morning. 

One camp that I went to didn't have any arid 
I didn't like it. 

Our camp has these interest groups . . . swim¬ 
ming . . . canoeing . . . sailing . . . campcraft . . . 


We have three levels at our camp ... an easy 
. . . a medium . . . and a hard level . . . There is a 
lot of incentive to earn a crest and this means that 
you will eventually go to all of the interest groups 
because these are where you will learn the things 
that are required. 

It also means that we learned things that we 
might not have on our own . . . like nature and 
astronomy. 

fhe crest work was up to us . . . we could do 
it or not. . . . Most campers do it because it is a good 
challenge. ... it also made us better trippers because 
we learned axemanship and how to pitch camp 
really well . . . This way we got more out our 
canoe trips. 


NEIL—Both Ian and I really like camping. 

We go back because we have a lot of friends there 
. . . people we have met from all over the place. 

We also go because it is lots of fun and because 
there is much more to do than in the city. 


If YOU are going to be a counsellor this year, 
we hope you have a good summer and we hope 
we have helped you a littie by telling you what a 
camper wants. . . . 





TENTS, RUSKSACKS, FLAGS 
LIFEJACKETS, CUSHIONS 

Write for Free Brochure and Catalogue 


JOHN LECKIE LIMITED 

30 UPJOHN ROAD 


DON MILLS, ONTARIO 


L 


I 




445-3400 >' 




14 




LEADER under sail 


WE HAVE A CANOE FOR EVERY PURPOSE 


Over 45 Models to choose from 


Write to the Chestnut Canoe Co. for Free Literature and Prices 


15 








RECENT STUDIES ON THE EFFECTS OF 
NICOTINE AND SMOKING 

by Dr. J. H. Ebbs 


The electroencephalogram which records elec¬ 
trical waves from the brain shows that Nicotine acti¬ 
vates, but too much Nicotine given to experimental 
animals causes convulsions. It has been demonstrated 
that Nicotine prolongs the transient state between 
alertness and sleep. It has been discovered that there 
are two things in tobacco smoke which produce 
major effects, one is Nicotine and the other is mus¬ 
carinic drugs. Nicotine improves various types of 
performance, however it may also disrupt perfor¬ 
mance in some people. It can produce central altera¬ 
tion in the brain. 

Radio-active Nicotine injected into mice results 
in the concentration of Nicotine in the brain which 
disappears from 30 - 60 minutes. After 20 minutes, 
the Nicotine is being metabolised, in other words, 
changed in the body. The mild excitory action of 
smoking is due to the action of both Nicotine and 
muscarine while the inhibitory action is due entirely 
to muscarine which follows later. 

It has been demonstrated that Nicotine stimu¬ 
lates respiration, increases blood pressure, inhibits 
the knee reflexes, may cause knee twitching, and 
accelerates blood flow to the brain. The smoker 



who smokes an average amount, experiences a brief 
wakeup effect, followed by mild central nervous 
system depression which is transient. Large doses of 
Nicotine results in depression. Tests on drivers of 
motor cars shows that smoking produces no differ¬ 
ence in ability or alertness in smokers and non- 
smokers, but when smokers are deprived of smoking, 
they show more 'tracking' and produce more errors 
in vigilance. Another interesting finding, was in ex¬ 
periments with monkeys. When they become ad¬ 
dicted to smoking, they much prefer the pipe. 


MEDICAL 
SUPPLIES 
FOR CAMPS? 

Starkmans of course, because we have been supplying all the major 
camps for over 37 years. 

Starkmans wholesale division gives you one source of supply—fast 
service, and all orders are shipped the same day received. 

You are sure of the finest First Aid equipment, drugs and medicines, 
call or write, and remember low, low prices prevail at Starkmans. 

STARKMAN 

“Jn the Set vice o( Medicine" CHEMISTS LIMITED 

1243 Bathurst St., Toronto 
535-3103 








• • • 


Now at my camp 

Joyce Bertram, Camp Ouareau 


J have always had a horror of hearing a child 
say Oh nah, it's just like school” whenever anyone 
suggested that he or she should go to camp in the 
summer. When eyebrows are raised in scandalised 
astonishment, he usually goes on to amplify it with 
some camp programs made up ALREADY, and some 
play baseball when they blow a whistle and go to 
canoeing at the same time every Tuesday and Thurs¬ 
day." 

Let's be honest, Camp Directors — aren't some 
of the camps that you know of run like that? Are'nt 
some camp programs made up ALREADY, and some 
Program Directors know NOW just what Bunks 4, 5 
and 6 will be doing on Wednesday, July 15th from 


Perish the thought, say I! 

Camp Directors are always walking some sort 
of tightrope, it's what keeps us young. An example 
with which I am sure you are familiar is that of trying 
to convince your bank manager that you NEED that 
holiday in Jamaica. It makes you a better camp 
director, ergo a better camp, ergo more dough, ergo 
the loan is paid off sooner. The bank manager, on 
the other hand is saying that if you would ONLY 
keep your nose to the grindstone. . . 

Another tightrope we all have to walk is that 
of giving parents value for monies received and at 
the same time letting the kids do their own thing. 
Any of you who have experimented with "camper¬ 
planning" have realized that this means no one gets 
out of bed before noon and that "your own thing" 
is usually something which can be done better and/or 
cheaper in the city. Be that as it may, we have a 
responsibility to parents to come across with the 
goods which we advertise in our brochures. Honest 
answers from parents usually boil down to "getting 
along^with others, self-reliance and improved physical 
skills." Okay, so how do we actually provide for all 
these things in our program? 

I don't know and I have been trying to find the 
answer for sixteen years as a Director and about the 
same number as a counsellor. What am I, a slow 
learner, maybe? 

At Ouareau we spent years letting the campers 
choose what they wanted to do every period of every 
day, six days a week. Sundays I ran the show. Me 
and God. And then I realized that this was not fair 
to the staff. When a different child showed up for the 
activity each day of the week the staff had no feeling 
of accomplishment, no feeling of continuity and no 
reason to make out a lesson plan or a cohesive 
method of teaching. No dicel Out! 


Another thing we discovered, (and those of you 
who are practising psychologists as well as Camp 
Directors (and which of us isn't?) should have been 
able to tell me long age) — the kids themselves didn't 
get too much feeling of accomplishment. They often 
went home with a lopsided basket and a half-ass 
coDoer bracelet when what they really wanted was 
their Senior Red Cross and their Skipper. 

One of the few things which I have learned in 
my million years of working with kids is that THEY 
LIKE RULES AND REGULATIONS AND LIMITS. Partly 
because they like to be able to fight against them: 
there is no fun in fighting a cream puff. But partly 
it is because they want to feel that someone is inter¬ 
ested enough in them to INSIST that they make the 
most of their Go'd-given talents. 

When nobody DEMANDS anything of me, I 
don't give it - do you? Are kids so different? 

So now we have changed our program (and 
here I come to the point of this whole article — almost 
worth waiting for). We offer a lot of choice but that 
choice is between a number of things. It is never 
between something and nothing. . Give a kid a 
chance and he'll choose nothing every time! (Anyone 
who wishes to dispute this with me is welcome to 
do so). 

/ We haven't got the answer at our camp, and if 
you're honest, you'll admit you haven't got it either. 
But this is how we try to do it. Our general structure 
changes each year with the staff who administer it, 
but roughly, here's the idea. 

A camper in our Intermediate and Senior Sec¬ 
tions may choose two activities on which she would 
like to concentrate for the next week. Along with 
an instruction swim, these three things make up her 
morning program. During the afternoons many of 
these same activities are offered again with the addi¬ 
tion of diving, synchronized swimming, dramatics, 
photography, modern dance, music, poetry, nature 
lore or whatever. Any kid who has a bent in that 
direction can so bend. 

The next week the campers choose two more 
activities (one may be a repeat from the week before). 
Afternoons are free choice again — followed by a 
play swim. In this way, if a camper is mad to get her 
Master in canoeing, she can paddle every morning 
and afternoon, but if she wants a change of pace, 
it's there. 

Two or three evenings a week there are Section 
programs where Juniors, Ints. and Srs. plan their own 


17 




program with their own counsellors. Two nights a 
week there is a big All-camp program. Monday night 
is Cabin Nite when each group of four campers does 
what it wants along with its own cabin counsellor, 
Saturday is usually dramatics and Sunday is a special 
quiet time with music and poetry and story telling 
around the fire in the Lodge. And there you are — 
all nine nights of the week looked after! 

The Juniors' program is as spontaneous as the 
staff who run it. Boating and swimming are the only 
"musts". Otherwise, anything goes, from puppets to 
frog catching, to mountain climbing or finger paint¬ 
ing. 

This isn't ideal but it's as close as we can get. 
There is no coercion to take a certain activity. Camp 
ers make up their own minds what they want to do. 
The only thing which is "encouraged" (and there's 
a euphemism, if you like) is instruction swim. 

I feel that my program as it stands now offers 
"getting along with others" because the child chooses 
on her own and meets campers from other sections 


and age groups and levels of ability. Having chosen, 
she is stuck with it and it's up to her to "get along". 

And here I want to digress for a moment to tell 
you an anecdote from my childhood which I dis¬ 
covered, to my wild delight, has the same impact on 
kids to-day. It was Sunday chapel and I was telling 
the campers about a favourite maxim of my father's 
(a staunch Scotch Presbyterian). He told me of a rabbit 
who was being sorely pressed by dogs and so in 
desperation it climbed a tree. As most children would, 

I said the obvious thing "But Daddy, rabbits don't 
climb trees." "This rabbit," he replied solemnly, 
"THIS rabbit had to!" Perhaps this little story doesn't 
grab you or hit you where you live but it caught on 
at Ouareau last year. It became a talisman for every 
youngster faced with something difficult — whether 
it was a Red Cross test, a first night on the stage or 
sitting at a new table in the dining room. "THIS 
rabbit had to." It is the basis of my own philosophy 
of life and I am delighted to think that some of my 
campers and staff feel the same. 

But we digress — back to "What Parents Expect 
of a Camp". 

The "self-reliance" which parents think is so 
essential comes because of the unique (I think?) 
arrangements of my campers and counsellors. The 
campers live in tent or cabin in groups of four. Their 
counsellor lives close by with her own contempor¬ 
aries in groups of three or four — close enough for 
supervision and safety but not close enough to 
medite every quarrel or referee every fight. The 
child who has had the universe resolve around her 
until now suddenly discovers that there are other 
people in the world and that she MUST co-operate 
with them or be miserable. When she does, they 
co-operate with her and democracy is born. 

The child who is terrified of insects, the dark 
and strange noises in the woods suddenly discovers 
that she has no adult to Stand Between Her and Life 
and that she must make her own decisions. She dis¬ 
covers untold depths of courage and resourcefulness 
that she didn't know she possessed. She discovers a 
sympathy and an empathy for others which were 




BI-MOR FROZEN FOOD SERVICE LTD. 

DISTRIBUTORS OF 

FROZEN FOODS, VEGETABLES, SEA FOODS, MEATS, ETC. 

★ KRAFT FOODS ★ E. D. SMITH 

★ NESTLES ★ RICH'S PRODUCTS 

★ GENERAL FOODS ★ WYANDOTTE CHEMICALS 

Twice Weekly Refrigerated Service in Muskoka, Lake of Bays and Haliburton 

TORONTO OFFICE 742-4755 




18 



beyond her imaginings. She is kind to the kid with 
acne and discovers that this same kid doesn't mind 
that she, herself is fat. No adult can teach them this. 
No sibling who can rush to mother for comfort can 
open this world for her. It can only be opened by a 
stranger who suddenly catches one's disinterested 
interest. 

The "improved skills" usually follow as a result 
of the concentrated effort on the part of both camper 
and instructor. With small classes — never more than 
four to one instructor — the youngsters really acquire 
an interest and a skill which often last them well into 
their adult life. 

There is lots of room for democracy in my camp 


program. (I was always particularly fond of one Pro¬ 
gram Director who lowered herself sadly into a chair 
next to mine and said "Democracy takes SO MUCH 
LONGER, doesn't it?) The campers elect their own 
Camper Council and it is they who decide about big 
programs or projects in which they are interested. 
They plan their own Cabin Nites, they plan their own 
campfires and stunts and (heaven help usl) they have 
even been known to write their own plays. They put 
out their own newspaper and they write their own 
ghastly folksongs which they sing with their own 
equally ghastly guitar accompaniment. BUT . . . (and 
this is where I come in) . . . qualified people are on 
the staff to teach them and we jolly well see to it 
that they LEARN, for at least part of the day. How else 
can we possibly justify our enormous fees! ! \ 


£MBRO!D£R£D CAMP CRESTS 

CUSTOM-MADE TO YOUR DESIGN 

Your choice of colours on washable material, with colourfast silk yarns. Quality 
silk embroidery at prices you would normally expect to pay for other types of 
crests. Send a rough sketch of your design for a quotation? FREE artwork. 

GRANT® EMBLEMS 

Stanley A. Grant Limited — 255-3421 - 134 Park Lawn Rd. 
Toronto 18, Canada. 


NOW 

ms FOR CAMPS 


Wise camps use Stafford's pie filling and bake a pie 
in HALF THE TIME. Stafford's pie filling is ready-to-use. 
Just pour it in the pie shell, and pop it in the oven. Out 
comes a tender, flaky pie no camper can resist, with his 
favorite filling—pineapple, mincemeat, raisin, raspberry, 
blueberry, cherry, apple, peach or strawberry and rhubarb. 

See your Stafford man for pickles, relish, salad dress¬ 
ing, mustard, hot chocolate, canned fruits and vegetables, 
tea, jams, toppings and shortening . . . all with that home¬ 
made flavour. 


Stafford 


Stafford 

APPLE Pit 


Stafford 

HUEBIRRY 

fxS£i*vQ, 


BRANCHES: 

MONCTON, 


FOODS LIMITED 

37 Hanna Ave. - Toronto 3 

366-8021 

MONTREAL, WINNIPEG, CALGARY, EDMONTON, VANCOUVER 


19 







HOW WE RUN OUR DAILY PROGRAM 

by Colin Hatcher 

Director — Camp Keewaydhin, Edmonton , Alberta 


Camp Keewaydhin, Y.M.C.A. of Edmonton, has 
as a basic philosophy of program — a camper centred 
approach. This does not mean of course that there is 
no structure or guideline to support the camper 
centered approach. The Keewaydhin program has 
several '"givens" which normally don't change from 
day to day. Meals are at a scheduled time unless a 
group plans to eat out or is on an out-trip. The second 
given is the fact that time is allotted each morning for 
camp and cabin clean-up. The third given is that an 
hour's rest period is generally observed each after¬ 
noon for groups staying in camp. The fourth given is 
the fact that junior campers get 9-10 hours sleep each 
night and senior campers, 11-13 years old, get at 
least 8 hours sleep each night. These giyens are flex¬ 
ible if campers wish to plan special events and many 
of these givens don't exist while campers are on an 
out-trip. 

Counsellors take time each day to talk to their 
campers about program at camp. If they wish to 
participate in camping skill sessions, such as archery. 


riflery, canoeing, boating, crafts, etc., where a limited 
number of campers can be accommodated at a given 
time, the counsellor makes a note of these and the 
times the campers prefer. After supper each day, one 
of the Section Directors clears the chips from the 
"sloosh" board. Each Counsellor then bids for time 
for his group by placing chips on appropriate spots 
on the board. 

Counsellors accompany campers to each activity 
area and act as the resource person for the campers 
in that area. Equipment is picked up from and return¬ 
ed to the program equipment cabin by the group 
using that equipment. There are two one hour activity 
periods each morning, three each afternoon and one 
in the early evening. 

Bidding for time in the "sloosh" board is tight 
when all groups are in camp. However, as groups 
leave for out-trips, it is not unusual to have one of 
the remaining groups take two consecutive periods 
on the "sloosh" board to get a longer period of time 
at the activity of their choice. 


Camp Keewaydhin, Y.M.C.A. of Edmonton 

Sloosh Board 

CABIN GROUP 


PERIOD 

ACTIVITY 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

l 

ARCHERY 













AXEMANSHIP 













BOATING 













CANOEING 













CRAFTS 













NATURE LORE 














ORIENTEERING 













RIFLERY 













SWIM INSTRUCTION 













2 

ARCHERY 













AXEMANSHIP 













BOATING 













CANOEING 













CRAFTS 







































RIFLERY 













SWIM INSTRUCTION 













3 

ARCHERY 













AXEMANSHIP 













BOATING 













CANOEING 













CRAFTS 













NATURE LORE 














20 


i 





A DAILY PROGRAMME RESUME' 


by Mary Jane Sanderson, Camp Wahcahmie 


Wahcahmie, a small camp with a capacity for 48 
girls, takes a great deal of interest in the individual 
needs of each camper. Therefore, the daily pro¬ 
gramme is varied from day to day, seldom following 
the same pattern. Activities such as Wilderness Sur¬ 
vival, (which includes Campcraft and Orienteering) 
Canoeing and Swimming are provided along with 
Sailing, Waterskiing, Aquaplaning, Archery, Oil 
Painting, Synchronized Swimming, Diving, and Junior 
Program. 

Junior Programme is mainly for the younger 
campers between the ages of 7 and 10. However, it 
is often so interesting that many of the older campers 
take part. For instance, last summer the camp group 
decided to hike to our beaver pond. Several hours 
later, they returned laden with 22 varieties of mush¬ 
rooms, plant life, mosquito larvae, swamp gas, etc. 
They then spent the next few hours labelling the 
specimens (which meant searching through the nature 
books) and made an attractive display. A wonderful 
example of education out of the classroom! The 
younger campers return from many a jaunt laden 
with weeds and tadpoles for the aquarium and other 
objects of nature which they then use in their nature 
craft program. The younger campers are involved in 
this type of program three times a week or more. 

There are 3 periods in the morning — Canoeing 
and Wilderness Survival and Swimming. The campers 
are divided into 2 groups according to their ability 
in Canoeing and Wilderness Survival. They rotate 
the first two activities; at the same time some are at 
Sailing, Waterskiing and Aquaplaning. In this type 
of a set up, they are acquiring the skills necessary for 
tripping but, at the same time, they are experienc¬ 
ing a variation in activities. In the last morning period, 
the entire camper group is at Swimming to further 
their Red Cross or Royal Life Saving skills. If they 
do not qualify for one of these awards, they work 
towards a Camp award in Swimming. In this way 
everyone is involved in some Swimming award. The 
remainder of the morning is free until the dinner 
hour. Immediately after dinner the entire camp group 
indulges in a quiet rest hour. 

The afternoon activity begins with Instructional 
Swim followed by interest groups. The campers have 
free choice as to the activity they attend. In the after¬ 
noon, Recreational Canoeing is added to the afore¬ 
mentioned list of activities. A camper remains at her 
chosen activity for Monday and Tuesday then to a 
new activity on Thursday and Friday. On Wednesday, 
the campers are free to attend open activities after 
which the cabin group jaunts off on a cook-out 
supper. A marathon or regatta is planned for either 


Saturday or Sunday. After interest groups, the camp¬ 
ers come together for a free swim. At this time a 
waterfront counsellor is in charge of Rcereational 
Swimming and organizes a game in which any who 
wish may participate. 

To provide variation in the program we some¬ 
times reverse the day's activities or the older campers 
will take a picnic lunch and set out in canoes or the 
sailboats for a long distance paddle or sailing excur¬ 
sion. 

Once a week there is a Special Day or Event 
such as a Sail Past, Olympic Day or Gold Rush Day 
which may encompass the whole day or possibly 
just the morning or afternoon and which involves 
the whole camping group. 

The outstanding feature of Wahcahmie, as a 
small camp, is that many activities can be planned 
to involve the entire camp group but we never lose 
sight of the fact that the program must be geared to 
catering to the individual needs of each camper. 


I For All Marine | 

Camping Needs ... | 

SKIS - LIFEJACKETS I 

ROPE, SAILS, FLAGS I 

NAUTICAL CLOTHING I 

FOUL WEATHER GEAR f 

ALL BOATING APPAREL f 

DECK SHOES f 

SAILBOAT HARDWARE | 

POWER BOAT HARDWARE | 

. . . Write for our | 

Marine and Winter Catalogues | 

COMPANY LIMITED I 

136 Adelaide St. East at-Jarvis A 

TORONTO. CANADA | 

363-8586 | 


21 



MAKING EXCEPTIONAL CHILDREN 
A PART OF THE SUMMER CAMP SCENE 

Camp directors can help handicapped children cope with real life 
by assuring success in the camp setting 

by Doreen Kronick 

Director, Integra Foundation, Toronto, Canada (sponsor of Camp Towhee) 


Camp directors have been hesitant to absorb 
exceptional children into their setting. They have 
been concerned about their ability to handle the 
children medically. They have questions about the 
adequacy of their physical plant and maturity of their 
staff. They wonder whether the campers and their 
parents will react negatively to handicapped cabin- 
mates. They wonder what kind of special knowledge 
they must have, what referral procedures should be 
effected, and what assistance can be expected from 
local agencies. 

Certainly every director will not find his camp 
suitable to undertake such a program. However, if 
we are to contribute to the self-sufficiency, produc¬ 
tivity, maturity, and happiness of the vast numbers 
of our handicapped population, many of us must 
attempt to service these children. By teaching them 
to meet the demands of everyday life we prepare 
them to cope with the stresses of tomorrow. And 
we enrich the lives of our other campers as well. 

It has been our experience that integrating some 
handicapped and exceptional children into our nor¬ 
mal camp has been of great worth, both for the non¬ 
handicapped and for the special children. In many 
cases the handicapped or exceptional children have 
spent their lives being sheltered and overprotected at 
home, attend "special" classes and thearpy groups 
with other "special" children. They experience their 
first real opportunity to learn to live with their 
normal peers at camp. The ability to master the living 
situations of camp is an important step in the direc¬ 
tion of functioning in society at large. 

The special child often has a past history of re¬ 
peated failure in whatever he has attempted. At camp 
he is confronted with a new physical, social, and 
learning experience in a nondemanding, informal set¬ 
ting, in which he may achieve his first successes. 
With success, his self-esteem and his ability to com¬ 
municate improve, and consequently so does his 
ability to behave in an acceptable fashion. 

Having a "special" child in a cabin can be a posi¬ 
tive learning experience for our nonhandicapped 
campers. This can be a lesson in empathy, accept¬ 
ance, and the realization of the integrity of each hu¬ 
man being. Just as sleeping beside a youngster of dif¬ 
ferent race or nationality can help a child appreciate 
his sameness and humanity, so can a special child 
teach an invaluable lesson to his cabinmates. 


It is necessary to interpret to the cabinmates, and 
other campers, if the need arises, the worth of the 
special camper, his right to experience an enjoyable, 
meaningful summer, and the role they can play in 
implementing this. We explain that everyone does not 
function as well as they would choose in some areas, 
giving examples, and that the handicapped camper 
has limitations of function, which must be accepted 
as such. Whenever the handicapped child cannot par¬ 
ticipate in a cabin activity we provide an alternate 
activity. This averts resentment on the part of his 
cabinmates, which can occur when they are held back 
from their regular activities. If the situation is handled 
judiciously, the nonhandicapped campers react posi¬ 
tively toward the special child. 

When approached by parents of a handicapped 
or exceptional child, we are faced with the difficult 
tasks of assessing the degree of the child's impair¬ 
ment, deciding whether he could benefit from a camp 
situation, and whether the camp chosen should be a 
nonhandicapped or special setting. 

If the child is under the care of an agency such as 
a crippled children's centre, family service agency, 
psychiatric clinic, or institute for the blind or deaf, 
the camp director should request a detailed report. 
It should consist, in part, of the child's abilities, dis¬ 
abilities, particular problems related to his impair¬ 
ment, specific methods of handling him, the extent of 
his special training, his social ability, and his readi¬ 
ness to cope with a nonhandicapped situation. If the 
child is not receiving treatment from an agency or 
clinic, the schools are able to furnish considerable 
information on his ability to handle himself, and, in 
some cases, to give details of his psychological as¬ 
sessment. At the close of the summer the camp 
should be prepared to furnish a report to the agency 
or clinic, so that they can maintain a twelve-month 
picture of the child's progress. 

Although the parents or agency may have ap¬ 
proached the director concerning placement of the 
child in camp, it is still customary for the parents to 
experience considerable anxiety at having the child 
live away from home in a relatively unsheltered set¬ 
ting. The child, as well, frequently is the product of 
years of overconcern and overprotection and antici¬ 
pates the forthcoming camping experience with a 
mixture of enthusiasm and fear. Therefore, the camp 
director must be prepared to devote extra time to the 
family interview. Many fears will be reduced if the 


22 



director takes the time to explain in detail his medi¬ 
cal services and practices, physical facilities, meals, 
demands made of campers, staff qualifications, and 
program. The prospective camper will feel more com¬ 
fortable if he is given a picture of a typical day's 
activities, a description of the cabin in which he will 
live, and a detailed description of the trip to camp, 
from the time he leaves home until he is settled into 
his cabin. The director must assist the parents in 
"letting go" so that their child can begin to acquire 
the skills of independent living. 

Information solicited from the child and parents 
should include: (1) ability to relate to peers, (2) things 
child does well and enjoys, (3) concerns and fears, 
(4) things child and parents are looking for from a 
summer at camp, (5) child's adjustment to new situa¬ 
tions, (6) how child feels about his handicap, (7) spe¬ 
cial assistance required in dressing, toileting, making 
bed, eating, medical attention required, ability to 
move around, special equipment required, and (8) 
special handling of behavior disorders. 

One of our criteria for accepting a child is the 
likelihood of his eventual integration into the non¬ 
handicapped community. We question whether the 
effort involved in accommodating a severely handi¬ 
capped youngster equates the benefits gained. How¬ 
ever, in serving the moderately to minimally handi¬ 
capped, the ability of the child to cope with a 
nonhandicapped setting is not dependent upon the 
type of handicap, but rather upon the degree of 
socialization the child has achieved. Some important 
points to consider are: has the child spent some time 
in a special class, clinic, camp wherein he has re¬ 
ceived remedial or rehabilitative treatment, learned 
to handle himself, cope with and accept his dis¬ 
ability? Is his primary need at this point a setting in 
which he will receive intensive therapy, or one 
wherein he can undergo a social experience? If the 
former is the case, he should attend a special camp. 

Staff and Program Must be Flexible 

There is often concern on the part of the director 
about the adequacy of his physical plant, if he is to 
accept handicapped youngsters. It has been found 
that facilities meeting American Camping Associa¬ 
tion standards sutiable for nonhandicapped children 
are sufficient for those with a disability, provided 
leniency and extra time to move from place to place 
are allowed. 

The suitability of a camp for the integration of 
handicapped children will not be as dependent upon 
program orientation as upon maturity of staff and 
flexibility of programing. However, specific program 
orientations tend to lend themselves more effectively 
to specific handicaps. In other words, the orthopedi- 
cally handicapped might be unable to cope with a 
work camp, but its program conceivably could be en¬ 
joyed by the deaf, learning disabled, emotionally dis¬ 
turbed and educable mentally retarded. A group 
centered camp generally is well suited to the inte¬ 
gration of exceptional and handicapped children. 


since there is close supervision of staff and campers 
and the child is under the continuous care of his 
cabin counselor. Within such an approach, competi¬ 
tion is generally minimized and allowances are made 
for the pursuit of individual interests as well as cabin 
centered activities. In brief, staff-camper ratio, a 
noncompetitive atmosphere, and the willingness of 
the staff to provide alternative programing and handl¬ 
ing are vital requisites for a successful experience. 

The supervisory staff of the camp should be pre¬ 
pared to provide the counselor with sufficient infor¬ 
mation concerning the child's care before the season 
and be accessible for extra direction and support 
throughout the summer. Sending agencies can play a 
valuable role in providing ongoing advice to the camp 
and counselor for the duration of summer. Camp di¬ 
rectors can educate agencies to the importance of 
this role by requesting specific assistance from them. 

Discretion should be used in supplying informa¬ 
tion to the counselor. He needs to know the specifics 
wherein his handling of the camper will differ from 
the care of a nonhandicapped child. The counselor 
need not be overburdened with technical terminology 
or extensive material on the etiology of the handi¬ 
cap. 

Special children have needs, likes, dislikes, fears 
and hopes as do their nonhandicapped counterparts. 
However, their differentness is rarely limited spe¬ 
cifically to their handicap. They reflect their parents' 


CAMPING BOOKS 

A COMPLETE DISPLAY 
Visit - Phone - Write for Lists 


* * * * 


Ryerson Bookstore 

85 St. Clair Ave. E. 
Toronto 7, Ont. 

925-6597 925-5931 

* * * * 

HOURS: 

Mon. - Wed. 9:00 a.m. - 5:30 p.m. 
Thurs., Fri. 9:00 a.m. - 9:00 p.m. 
Sat. 9:00 a.m. 5:00 p.m. 


23 


reaction to their disability, the attitude of the com¬ 
munity to them, and their own feelings about their 
handicap. 

The camper should be encouraged to try new, ac¬ 
ceptable modes of behavior, be self-sufficient, use 
initiative and effort. He should be given responsibili¬ 
ties and activities in which he can achieve success. 
He can be helped to learn to live with himself and 
develop a philosophy of life. An exceptional camper 
will often hover on the periphery of the group, and 
extra effort may be required to make him a function¬ 
ing member of the larger group. Camping is a re¬ 
laxed, unhurried, uncomplicated, but structured and 
organized living situation. It offers the child an op¬ 
portunity to experience realities of nature, contrasted 
to the abstracts he encounters in school. This in itself 
can be of great therapeutic and educational value to 
the special child. 

Since many directors are not willing to accept 
such campers into their camps, those who are become 
overwhelmed with applications from special children 
Their camps threaten to adopt the characteristics of a 
"special" setting which negates the original pur¬ 
poses. Therefore, it is imperative that every director 
survey his situation with the thought of making these 
children an integral part of the normal camp setting. 

Reprinted from the Journal of Health, Physical Education, Recreation, 
May 1969. Copyright, 1969, by the American Association for Health, 
Physical Education, and Recreation, National Education Association, 1201 
16th St., NW, Washington, D.C. 20036. 


SPORTS EWtPMiNT 

We specialize in Crests, Crested Shirts, 
Jackets etc., specially designed for your 
camp requirements. 


We carry complete inventory 

On: Trampolines, Volleyball, Softball, 
Basketball, Indoor and Outdoor 
Games, Life Saving Equipment, 
Shuffleboard, Tetherball, Archery, 
Flag Football, First Aid Kits at 
wholesale prices. 


JACK WATSON 

SPORTING GOODS LTD. 

30 Mobile Dr., Toronto 16 


Phone 757-2844 


free Catalogue 






WHEREVER YOU ARE . . . 

Superior' 

PROPANE 
Serves you best 

'Superior' PFopane gives you all the advantages of Gas no matter where you are 
throughout Canada's vacation and resort areas. You can make your camp, motel 
or resort as modern as tomorrow with 'Superior' Propane. 

Save time and money. Use 'Superior' Propane for all your camp operations. Cook¬ 
ing, Refrigeration, Water Heating, Incineration, Power Plants and Lighting. 


' Superior' 


PROPANE LTD. 


1865 LESLIE STREET, DON MILLS 


444-7351 







(continued from page 5) 


water from the well — I should say the campers 
carry it. 


A large building, preferably with a good-sized 
fireplace, washrooms, and food service facilities is 
essential. We prefer to provide food service for the 
groups — it's easier on our equipment and many 
groups don't want to bother with it. Our walk-in 
cooler works in reverse in winter. We've placed a 
small thermostatically controlled electric heater into 
it and that solves all our food storage problems. 

Our washrooms are not part of our main build¬ 
ing; we use our summer facilities. We've blocked 
off the stalls with BP board, installed small electric 
space heaters and flush with a dipper of water stored 
in a bucket. 

Campers' clothing must also be considered as 
part of the required equipment. If campers are not 
dressed for the out-of-doors, they won't enjoy it and 
consequently not book a retreat with your camp 
next year. We spell out the type of foot-wear and 
clothing required. 

What Do You Charge? 

Its important to keep costs down. We usually 
ask the groups to carry all the water, sweep and 
tidy up all facilities used, wash dishes, set tables 
and serve at meal-time. They also provide their own 


nurse. Thus we need only employ a custodian and 
cook. In that way we pass the saving on to the group. 
We set a minimum fee to open camp. Fixed costs 
such as staff, travel, heating, wear and tear must 
be charged. These plus food costs are calculated 
over the number of people involved and a rate per 
person given to each rental group. The larger the 
group, the lower the rate per person. 

Year-round camping may take a little creative 
planning and preparation, plus some capital outlay. 
The market is there for anyone who is willing to go 
after it. We think it certainly is worth the effort. 



HOBART 
Food Machines 

Meat Choppers 
Vertical/Cutter Mixers 
Mixers Potato Peelers 
Food Slicers 
Power Meat Saws 
Steakmasters Portion Scales 
Dish and Glass Wash-ers 
Food Cutters 
Food Waste Disposers 
Power Dicers Patty Machines 
Instant - Hot Water Dispensers 
Pre-Rinse Sprays 

• 

The Hobart Manufacturing 

Company Limited 

Don Mills, Ontario 

BRANCHES ACROSS CANADA 




OfftoCmt 


Make it a requirement 
that all campers' clothing 
and belongings are 
marked with 


a **® taTe! j 

FOR PERSONAL I 

IDENTIFICATION § 

OF CLOTHING AND BELONGINGS | 

Camp linen and equipment, too, 8 

should be marked to avoid 8 

confusion and loss. Names 8 

or numbers can be supplied. & 

Order Cash's Name Tapes X 

from dealers or \ 

CASH'S, Box 116 , Belleville, Ont. 

PRINTED 74 

NAME X 

PRICES X 

6 doz. $1.75—12 doz.—$2.20 X 

9 doz.—$2.00—24 doz. $3.25 X 

No C.O.D.'s — Please mail cheque or X 

money order, including 5c postage. (Ont. X 

residents add 5% retail sales tax.) X 


25 



CAMPERS' INJURIES 

Experiences in Health Department 
In a Childrens’ Summer Camp 
A report was quoted indicating that during 
some summers July has more injuries than does 
August. The question of whether or not campers 
are more seasoned to outdoor activities at this 
time is perhaps borne out by the fact that there 
are fewer abrasions, blisters, sunburn, concuss¬ 
ions, cuts, and foreign bodies, insect bites, 
sprains, and stubbed toes. 

Similarly, the number of infections vary by 
months and from summer to summer. The 
younger age group suffer three times as many 
minor injuries as older campers and staff. Simi¬ 
larly, younger campers suffer nearly twice as 
many infections as do older campers and staff. 

J.H.E. 


PARKLANDS FOR THE FUTURE 

Many Provincial Governments are keen to 
preserve tracts of land for park use. They are 
hampered by inflated prices as soon as it be¬ 
comes known that the government wishes to 
buy. If you know of areas which could be 
bought reasonably, write a discrete letter to 
your M.L.A. and your Minster of Lands and 
Forests. 

B.M. 




When You Buy 
Remember Our 
Advertisers: 


J. H. Beattie . Inside Back 

Beaver Lumber Co. Ltd. Inside Back 

Bi-Mor Frozen Food Service Ltd. . 18 

Cash's. 25 

Chestnut Canoe . 15 

Cloverleaf Bedding Co. Ltd . 8 

Continental Casualty Co. .Outside Back 

Foodcraft Laboratories Ltd. Inside Back 

Freeze Dried Foods Ltd.11 

Gibbons Foods Ltd. Inside Front 

Stanley A. Grant Ltd.,. 19 

S. Gumpert Company of Canada Ltd . 26 

Hobart Manufacturing Co. Ltd. 25 

John Leckie Ltd. 14 

Lewiscraft. 10 

Maplex Ltd. 12 

Poolman Ltd. 7 

Quaker Oats Co. Ltd. Insert 

Ryerson Bookstore . 23 

Select Food Products Ltd. 26 

Stafford Foods Ltd. 19 

Starkman Chemists. 16 

Superior Propane Ltd.24 

Tandy Leather Company. 8 

Tom Taylor Marine Distributors Ltd. 21 

Jack Watson Sporting Goods Ltd. >. 24 


26 


































BUSINESS REPLY ENVELOPE 

No Postge Necessary If Mailed in Canada 



8 cents postage will be paid by 


Food Service Division 


The Quaker Oats (pmpany 

OF CANADA LIMITED 


Peterborough, Ontario 






,2-PART ORDER FORM 


QUAKER PRODUCTS - ORDER O QUANTITY RECIPES - ORDER© 


PRODUCT 


QUANTITY 


RECIPES 


RECIPE No. TICK OFF 


PANCAKE MIXES — DIRECTIONS 


12 / 31/2 

A.J. Regular Pancake Mix - 




6/5s 

A.J. Regular Pancake Mix - 

Complete Pancake Mix 

500 

□ 

50 lbs. 

A.J. Regular Pancake Mix - 

Basic Pancake Batter No. 1 

501 

□ 

12/31/2 

A.J. Buttermilk Pancake Mix- 

Basic Waffles Batter No. 5 

505 

□ 

6/5s 

A.J. Deluxe Pancake Mix- 

Deep Frying 



50 lbs. 

A.J. Deluxe Pancake Mix - 

Deep Frying Fish,Chicken, Meat 

222 

□ 


BULK CAKE MIXES 

— RECIPIES 



6/5s 

Qua. White Cake Mix - 




50 lbs. 

Qua. White Cake Mix - 




6/5s 

Qua. Choc. Cake Mix - 

Chocolate, White, Spice, Yellow 

300 

□ 

50 lbs. 

Qua. Choc. Cake Mix - 




6/5s 

Qua. Spice Cake Mix - 




6/5s 

Qua. Yellow Cake Mix - 




50 lbs. 

Qua. Yellow Cake Mix - 





BULK MUFFIN MIXES 

— RECIPIES 



6/5s 

Qua. Oatmeal Muffin Mix - 

Bran Muffins 

405 

□ 

50 lbs. 

Qua. Oatmeal Muffin Mix - 

Oatmeal Muffins 

400 

□ 

6/5s 

Qua. Bran Muffin Mix - 

Plain Muffins 

450 

□ 

50 lbs. 

Qua. Bran Muffin Mix- 

Corn Muffins 

455 

□ 

50 lbs. 

Qua.Plain Muffin Mix - 

"Fruit Filled" Muffins 

465 

□ 


CAKE DONUT MIX — 


50 lbs. Qua. Deluxe Donut Mix 


DONUT VARIATIONS 

Donut Variations 


422 


□ 


BULK COOKIE MIX — 


6/5s Qua. Cookie Mix 

50 lbs. Qua. Cookie Mix 


RECIPIES 

Oatmeal Cookies 
Mincemeat Bars 
Pineapple Bars 
Date Squares 
Deep Dish Pie 


299 

193 

194 
303 
191 


NON PREMIUM PACK — 


24-12 oz. Qua. Corn Flakes 


FOOD SERVICE CORN FLAKES 

Series — Fundamentals, Good Food Service 


□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 


□ 


BROWNIE MIX — RECIPIES 


6/5s Qua. Brownie Mix 


Brownies 

12 Brownie Variations 


398 

399 


SWEET DOUGH MIX 


50 lbs. Qua. Sweet Dough Mix 
(Basic Sweet Dough) 


□ 

□ 


RECIPIES 



Basic Sweet Dough 

421 ’ 

□ 

Spicy Sweet Buns 



Hot Cross Buns 

423 

□ 

Danish Pastry, Basic Dough 

424 

□ 

Peanut Butter Bars 

426 

□ 

Fruit Filled Pockets 

427 

□ 

Butter Horns 

428 

□ 

Cinnamon Rolls 

435 

□ 

Danish Pastry Baked Goods 

412 

□ 


FROZEN WAFFLES — 


8-9 oz. A.J. Frozen Waffles 


DIRECTIONS 

Information Release 


512 


□ 


(1) Deliver the Products Indicated Above with one of 

our Regular Orders through— 


(2) Forward the Quantity Recipes indicated above to: 


DISTRIBUTOR. 

STREET _ 

CITY _ 


_ NAME _ 

_ STREET . 
_ CITY _ 


Forward to: FOOD SERVICE DIVISION, THE QUAKER OATS COMPANY OF CANADA LIMITED, PETERBOROUGH, ONTARIO 


















































































JkodcNff 

Extra QUALITY PAYS . . . 

and that is verified by the confidence of our customers, which continues 
year after year. 

Foodcraft specialized foods offer many unique advantages and they sum 
up to what you want—distinctive quality meals at minimum cost. 

Write for information and samples now while you have time for thorough 
examination. No obligation whatever. 

# Specialized Foods # Specialized Service 

FOODCRAFT LABORATORIES LIMITED 

260 Richmond Street East Toronto 2, Ontario 

Telephone: 368-8088 

DIRECT SERVICE ACROSS CANADA 

Member—Canadian Camping Association and various related 
Associations across Canada 








FREE! 


Vacation Home Selector .... Fully 
Illustrated. Visit Beaver Or Write 
Beaver Lumber Company Limited, 
P.O. Box 1450, Sheridan Park, Ontario. 


EXPANDING 
OR BUILDING 

See the full selection of 
buildings at Beaver . . . A- 
Frame, Round Paneloc, 
Chalet, Contemporary or 
Rustic Haida Red Cedar! 
More than 40 to choose 
from. 


Each building is architecturally designed 
and engineered for your safety, comfort 
and protection and is easily adaptable 
to camping needs. Visit the Beaver store 
nearest your home or camp and see the 
selection.. 


LUMBER STORES 


IN ONTARIO THERE ARE MORE THAN 80 BEAVER STORES READY TO SERVE YOU 





















righildaca 

Mr. and Mrs. 
193 Richmond 
Richmond HiL 



W . J. Babcock, 




pCANADA e 




Campers learn through satisfying their 
curiosity. This can be dangerous play 
when they disregard the camp safety 
measures you demand of them. This season, 
with the addition of Continental’s Camp- 
Guard Insurance, your campers and staff 
can be insured against the medical ex¬ 
penses they might incur as a result of an 
illness or an unexpected mishap. 

And to let parents know that their children 
will have the necessary coverage to help 
pay any medical bills during the camp stay, 
use the Camp-Guard Seal of Approval on 
all your promotional material. It identifies 
your camp as having the finest accident 
and sickness medical expense protection 
available to campers. 

Investigate today how Continental’s 
Camp-Guard can help promote and protect 
your camp. Contact your local insurance 
agent or broker for a detailed explanation 
of the plans. 


DANGEROUS 

PLAY! 



ACCIDINf mmd SICKNCSS v 

INSURANCE 


FREE 

I I Send for your 
series of Camp-Guard 
Safety Posters. 




CONTINENTAL CASUALTY COMPANY 


industry marketing & specialty division 

MONTREAL • TORONTO • WINNIPEG • EDMONTON • CALGARY • VANCOUVER 














