
SUITE 2. 1806 AVENUE ROAD • TORONTO. ONTARIO M5M 3Z1 
TELEPHONE (416) 781-4717 


OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 
L’ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU CANADA — PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 


1 


Vol. 32 No. 2 
March 1980 














FORMATE UR MULTI PLICATEUR 


3. FORMATION OU PROCESSUS D'INTEGRATION 

(continue de fevrier) 

3.1 Integration au domaine des CAMPS, 

Toute personne appelee & oeuvrer dans un camp de vacan- 
ces doit etre consciente de la dimension et de la parti- 
cularite du ph6nom&ne loisir et canp de vacances. 

Les camps de vacances s'ins&rent dans le phenomene LOISIR 
d'oul'importance d'en avoir une certaine notion. 

Le loisir au Quebec,comment est-il organise? 

Les Camps de vacances se sont regroupes en association, 
pourquoi? 

Autant de questions auxquelles il faut foumir des repon¬ 
ses pour mieux s'integrer 4 1'action commune. 

Les camps de vacances sont principalement situes en pleine 
nature,c'est pourquoi celui qui y travaille doit-il refie- 
ter un mode de vie propre aux activites de plein air. 

3.2 Integration au CAMP X (un camp specifique) 

Le personnel doit connaitre toutes les facettes de 1*or¬ 
ganisation auquel il s'associe: 

3.2.1 Milieu physique 

3.2.2 Milieu administratif 

3.2.3 Milieu humain 

3.3 Integration & une tSche specifique 

Chacun doit connaitre exactement la tSche qu'il a k 
accomplir,comment l'accomplir,et comment son travail 
s'insure si 1*ensemble des activites du camp. 

3.3.1 Les cuisiniers 

3.3.2 Le personnel de soutien 

3.3.3 Les animateurs, 

Les moniteurs, 

Les specialistes 
Etc... 






2 


A. REFLEXIONS 



II incombe au directeur de camp de rassenibler un groupe d'individus, 
de les aider d parveirir d degre de competence pour la tache & exer- 
cer,mais en mSme temps de constituer avec ces individus une EQUIPE 
dyn antique capable de parvenir harmonieusement aux objectifs fix6s 
par le camp. 

Ce n'est sGrement pas une tache facile,ma is c'est la tSche auquelle 
le directeur de camp doit consacrer la trds grande partie de ses 6- 
nergies et de ses preoccupations. 


OUR EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REPORTS 


In the past two months I've had the pleasure of meeting almost all of the 
provincial associations. - what a tremendous opportunity! 

Thank you B.C.C.A. for your warmth and interest as you tackle administrative 
problems of organized camps in B.C. 

Thank you A.G.A. for the super sessions at your Conference - especially the 
Wilderness Travel Program and the square dancing. 

Thank you M.C.A. for your concern and suggestions about improving our ser¬ 
vices to the country. 

Thank you N.B.C.A. for your commitment to camping and the efforts you're 
making. 

Thank you N.L.C.A. for my introduction to a great province and your sug¬ 
gestions about the International Camping Congress in 1983. 

Pendant le mois prochaine, j'assisterai aux congres d'Ontario, Quebec et 
Novelle Ecosse. £a me fait plaisir de vous voir tot! As we get on with the 
work of C.C.A. it is good to reflect on the suggestions made by you all. Thanks 
again for the chance to learn so much! vf . - y-O ,/ 

THOUGHT FOR FOOD 1 


SAVE A SALAD — to add to the fun as well as to the good health of the youngsters 
when serving salads try this.... 

Offer a choice of prepackaged salad dressing flavours (French, Thousand Island etc.) 
This adds variety - and saves money too because you don't have to throw the salad 
out since it does not have dressing on it AND the kids don't waste because the 
packages are pre-proportioned. 

FREE PLASTIC BAGS Bags are expensive - have your cooks save BREAD BAGS for the 
trip department. They're great for sandwiches, oranges, keeping clothes dry. 

FREE PLASTIC JARS YORK Peanut Butter is again available in plastic jars. These 
are excellent for tripping and much less expensive than those available from sup¬ 
pliers (although they are not quite so rugged). One case will provide you with 
about $25.00 worth of jars and you get the peanut butter as an extra! 


3 


You Want A Good Staff? 


I NT E R V I E W ! 


What is our goal in selection? What 
are we trying to so when we interview 
prospective camp staff? We are attemp¬ 
ting to gather enough information about 
a person to make a predictive statement 
about his success or failure on the job; 
in other words a Yes or a No. 

There are three phases in the selec¬ 
tion process. We gather the informa¬ 
tion, we integrate the information and 
we draw a conclusion based on it. This 
really means; we find useful informa¬ 
tion about the candidate, make sense out 
of it and come up with an Yes or a No 
which has some logic behind it. 

The tool we use for this job is the 
interview. Interviewing looks pretty 
simple. Two people sit down, they talk 
and, as a result of the discussion, de¬ 
cisions are made, information is ex¬ 
changed. This apparently simple task 
is actually one of the greatest bar¬ 
riers to improving your skill because 
it looks so easy. 

In the space of an hour or so, you 
are attempting to gain an understanding 
of a lifetime of thousands of experi¬ 
ences. Your candidate's own experience 
has produced attitudes, motives, pat¬ 
terns of behavior which he can modify 
slightly or substantially to fit a gi¬ 
ven situation. To capture these 
things takes training, preparation and 
skill on your part. 

Training 

The first step in interviewing is 
training. Unless you constantly watch 
your own technique, correct your me¬ 
thods, increase your -understanding of 
human behavior, there is no particular 
reason why your skill should improve. 

Obj ectivity 

This is a word which we all use, but 
a view point we often neglect. It 


means putting your own feelings aside 
for the moment. It means sticking to 
your standards even though your emotions 
tell you differently. Remember you must 
judge whether this is the best person 
for the job based on the facts you know. 

Preparation goes on right up to the 
start of the interview itself. Take a 
look at his application. What does it 
tell you about the person beyond what he 
wants you to know? It is neat or care¬ 
less in format? It is wordy or too long? 
What is his skill with language? What 
does he want to do? Are the reasons su¬ 
perficial? Does his job history reflect 
any purpose or direction? So, as you 
prepare, take some notes on the items 
you want to check out in the interview. 

If the interview is brief, plan before¬ 
hand the areas you want to cover. And 
make sure you hit the areas that are 
significant to the job. 

Getting Started 

As you well know, every person coming 
to you in the interview has his own set 
of ideas about what he wants to tell you 
and what is going to happen. To some ex¬ 
tent he may be anxious. Your first step 
obviously is to help him relax, to let 
him know he has nothing to fear and to 
get across the feeling that you are on 
a co-operative venture, helping each other 
to determine if he is the best person for 
the job. 

The best way to set him at ease is to 
show hospitality. Relax yourself. 

Treat him with the same respect you give 
any stranger who is your guest. Put 
yourself in his shoes. See that the in¬ 
terview room is private and keep your¬ 
self free from interruptions. These lit¬ 
tle gestures help make if clear to him 
that he is your main concern. 

For a start, talk about a neutral sub¬ 
ject. Pick a topic that interests him. 

_ (Cont. on page 5 ) 




INTERVIEW! 


Avoid matters that might cause him to 
put up his guard. You don't want to 
drive him behind his defenses. And 
your biggest asset is in showing your 
sincere interest and respect for him. 

But don't get tangled up in idle talk 
because he will probably wonder when 
you are going to get down to business. 

Then move naturally from a topic in 
the initial conversation to something 
you want to talk about in the inter¬ 
view. Select an area he seems to be 
willing to talk about. Save the tougher 
ones until he is accustomed to expres¬ 
sing has feeling to you. During the 
interview, you are doing many things 
at once. You are questioning, lis¬ 
tening, observing and evaluating. 

Questioning 

Let's first look at questioning. It 
seems simple enough, you ask a question 
and you get an answer. But what kind 
of answer? Questions that require a 
simple Yes or No don't tell us very 
much about the person. The best ones 
are those that require him to tell you 
something about himself. How did he 
like school, were there many things he 
didn't like, have there been any prob¬ 
lems at home? Don't be afraid to ask 
why. Let him show you how well he can 
back up his decisions or his actions. 
This also gives you the opportunity to 
make sure you understand what he means 
by what he says. The accuracy of the 
judgements you make depend on how well 
you do understand. 

Observing 

Observing the person you are inter¬ 
viewing is a critical task. It begins 
when he comes in and continues until 
he leaves. Look at his neatness and 
grooming or lack of it. His posture. 

Do his hands shake and perspire? How 
long does this tenseness last? Do some 
of your questions upset him and cause 
him to blush? Does he recover from it? 
Can he control his emotions under mild 
stress? 


Listening 

As the interview progresses, sit back 
and listen, let him tell you his story. 

It is safe to say that you can judge the 
quality of the interview by the ratio of 
talk between the interviewer and inter¬ 
viewee. The poorer the interviewer, the 
more he talks and dominates the interview. 
So remember you are there to listen, you 
cannot gather information if you are doing 
the talking. 

Interview Topics 

Let us discuss briefly some of the things 
you might cover in a job interview. 

Work History - look at what he has done, 
what kind of jobs he has had. What can 
this tell you beyond what he did and where 
he did it? The pattern of work tells you 
very much about his judgement and foresight 
learning from experience - skill with peo¬ 
ple. What part of a job has he liked or 
disliked? Are this superficial or do they 
show some depth? How does he go about get¬ 
ting his jobs and why does he choose them? 
How did he like his boss and fellow emplo¬ 
yees? Why did he leave his jobs? Has he 
held any supervisory positions? If so, 
how did he react to being in charge? Weigh 
the responses carefully. Do they represent 
an attraction to frills or do they suggest 
stabilty and a sense of responsiblity? 

Education - level of education reflects 
partly opportunity and partly interest. 

What subjects did he like and why? What 
activities did he get into outside classes? 
Regardless of how much education he had, 
what did he learn from it? 

Leisure Time - what does he do when he is 
away from school or work? Why does he 
choose these things? How much time to they 
take up? Do they suggest any leadership 
ability? Does he read outside of his 
school or work areas? Could his leisure 
activity suggest any supplementary job 
skills? 

Health - a person's health is often a good 
source of attitudes about himself. Natural¬ 
ly you limit your questioning to things you 

(cont. on page 9)_ 



SUGGESTED CAMP FORMS 


The Ontario Camping Association has compiled a number of suggested Camp 

Forms. 

These are available from the O.C.A. for $3.30 per set. The forms are 
printed on 8-g- by 11 paper and contain all the forms listed below as well as 
suggestions and additional information to be used in making your own forms, 

Please send your cheque or money order, payable to the Ontario Camping 
Association, 1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, Toronto, Ontario M5M3Z1. 


The forms in the kit are: 

Camper Application Form 

Camp Staff Application Form 

Staff Health Certificate 

Camper's Health Certificate 
(illustrated below) 

These forms may be copied or you may add 
able or undesirable for your own special 


Staff Contract Letter 
Staff Reference Form 
Counsellor Evaluation Form 
Camper Evaluation Report Form 
Accident Report Form 

or delete anything that may be desir- 
situation. 


CAAP 


CASH'S HEALTH CERTIFICATE 
(ttevaloped by Ontario Cooping Association) 



this section to ba collated by parent before plantation to physician 


Ont. Hospital Ins. No. P.S.I. or Otl*ar Ins. No. 

In cm» of 11 Inass notify... 

Permanent Address... 

• • *.Phone. 

Siwnir Address... 

. Phono . 

If Caspar has had any of tha following, plans# chock - 

Chlghon Pox Asthma Hapatltls 

Hiaylas, rad Frequent colds Narnia 

Haas I as, german Hay Favor fbieumatlc favor 

Spalls Or fainting of any kind Maart oondltlon Sinus trouble 
Savara Stomach Achas Olabatas Munps 

Whooping Cough (recent! Sloop walking Sad Watting 

Has girl menstruated? Was.No. 

If not, has tha boon told about monstruatlon? Vas.No. 

Stata what oparations, racant lllnatsos or Injurlas Camper has had and 
gl va dotal ls- 


To tha bast of knowledge, «y child Is In good haalth and has not boon 
exposed to any Infactlows dlsaasa In tha past tour weeks. If ha or sha 
becomes exposed to any Infactlous dlsaasa between no- and tha time of 
dopartura for Carp. I understand tha Camp must bo not!find. In cast of 
surgical emergency and va ara not Immediately aval labia for consultation, 
l haraby giva permission to the physician salactad by the Camp Olraetor, 
to hospitallia. sacura propar treatment lor and to ordar Injections, 
anaesthesia or surgery lor my child, as named above. 


Ccnper'i Health Cart I tied >*0 cant'd. 


THIS SECTION TO B£ COm.£fEO BY CHUO'S PHYSICIAN 

Is Camper fully I muni tad against poliomyelitis, tetanus, pertussis 
diphtheria, smallpox? Cheat If yes. 


Polio 
PartusIs 
Tatanus 
Diphtheria 
Smallpox 


Data of most recant booster of - 

Tatanus Toxoid . 

Pol lo Vaccina.. . 


Is Career allergic to • Penicillin?.horse serum?, 

other drugs?.foods?. . . 

animals? . baa Sting?. , 


Physlcol examination: 


Stata ony physical or emotional abnormalities or 
other Information that m«y be usaful to tha Camp 
Doctor. 


It thara are treatxmnt*. Injections or special mdlcatlons to be given at 
Carp, state whan and how often to be administered. Theta should ba brought 
to Comp by Camper. 


weight.Haight.. 

To tha bast of my knowledge, this Camper Is In good haalth end Is physically 
able to participate In all Carp activities, except as previously Indicated. 
Physician's Signature . 

Address ... Phone . .. 

City. . . .... .Oof# of Examination ..... . 

FOR CAM* USE ONIY 

Data Diagnosis Treatment Admissions as Bad Patients 

Admitted Discharged Units 
















































STAFF MOTIVATORS 


by Bruce Harris 


n 9 . Care enough about staff to learn about their strengths. 

All staff have strengths and it is up to us to unearth them and put them to 
use. Each staff members has more strengths than may be seen at first meeting. 
For some it might be a gift with a musical instrument, another a true mechan¬ 
ical bent. Others have an abilty to organize and are a fine asset when a spe¬ 
cial event is being planned. Some have inner thoughts on nature and would love 
to share them at a quiet time or a chapel. 

10. Be fair in dealings with staff . 

Most camps are like a family; the staff being made up of many individuals but 
often sharing the feeling of a family. Whenever giving privileges or re- 
sponsibilties to individual staff it must be fair and appear to be fair to 
others within the family. 

As a corollary to the principle of fairness and to touch on the matter of 
salary, I would like to share some thoughts. First I believe that no matter 
what the salary, it must be the same for everyone who is doing the same job 
with the same experience. It is important to me that if I do any job I defin¬ 
itely get what the job is worth. If I found out that someone of the same ex¬ 
perience and doing the same job as I, received more than I; I would be really 
upset. I would question the fairness of the situation and above all question 
my worth to the camp or organization. 

Secondly, I sincerely believe that salary has absolutely no bearing on how well 
a person does their job. Salary may b$ a deciding factor on whether or not a 
person accepts a job because a specific need must be met - like paying univer- 
sity tuition etc.; but once a person accepts the job that need has obviously 
been met and no longer is a motivation factor. 

A teacher, a counsellor, anyone working with people will not be a more fulfilled 
enthusiastic, concerned leader because of more money. 

It is truly the most fortunate person who can have their inner needs met and, 
receive as a by-product the necessary funds to look after the monetary needs 
of life. 

I believe that most camps, because of their financial limitations cannot 
realistically provide the necessary monetary needs over an infinite amount of 
time. Staff must move into permanent jobs, they must move to less dependence 
on their own family and they must move on from the camp family to allow 
yo un ger staff the opportunity to grow and learn as they have. Personally, 
one of my joys in running a camp is to observe and perhaps be part of the 
tremendous growth of staff. 

11. Within camp example is one of the greatest teachers . 

We must accept the responsiblity that no matter what the motivations are for 
a staff member coming to camp, one of the greatest motivators from the outside 
to inflence his experience is the example of the director and senior staff 
members. If they are concerned about the staff, if they try to put themselves 
in the place of every staff member with whom they work - they will not have 
to worry about what to say and do. Staff will know they are doing a good job 
and that they each have an important part in making the summer a valuable and 
memorable time for every camper who has been entrusted to their care for the 
summer. 

Bruce Harris is the Director of Camp Kawabi, Minden, Ontario... this article 
is continued from the February issue. 


7 




THE COUNSELLOR'S PAGE 


Here are some ideas which are pertinent 
to leadership. As counsellors it is of¬ 
ten useful to give some thought to a ba¬ 
sic idea and then use it as a source of 
discussion with other counsellors or with 
your campers. You may not agree with 
some of these thoughts but discussion of 
them might broaden your understanding of 
them. 

"It is the quality of our actions that 
counts much more than their size or 
even their number." 



"Do not be angry that you cannot make others as you wish them to be, since you 

cannot make yourself as you wish to be." m . % Tr . 

J Thomas a Kempis 

"The worst sin toward our fellow creatures is not to hate them, but to be indif¬ 
ferent to them; that is the essence of inhumanity." n ^ . n . 

° George Bernard Shaw 


"Few rich men own their own property. The property owns them." 

Ingersoll 

"No man is my enemy," he said, "unless I admit him to be so." 

"That is mystical sophistry," remarked Arsene, with distain. 

"No," he replied, "it is a living truth. No man can hurt another, unless that 
other admits his enemy's capacity to hurt him. There is no evil if we deny its 
existence, there is no menace to our souls unless we concede the reality of 
evil." 

The Arm and the Darkness - Taylor Caldwell 


"Our soul is made like water, 
stirred, it becomes murky." 


When it remains calm, it is clear, when it is 

Bernardino of Siena 


"It is a good thing when a person is different from your image of him. It shows 
he isn't a type. If he were, it would be the end of him as a man. If you can't 
place him in a category, it means that at least part of him is what a human being 
ought to be. He is free from himself, he has a grain of immortality." 

Boris Pasternak 


GENIUS "The genius of men like Newton and Einstein lies in that: they ask trans¬ 
parent, innocent questions which turn out to have catastrophic answers." 

The Ascent of Man, J.Brorowski 

"The good counsellor defends his campers against his own personal influence. He 
inspires self-distrust. He guides their eyes from himself to the spirit that in 
spires him. He will have no disciple." 


8 



INTERVIEW! 


(cont. from page 5) 


are equipped to handle. Leave medical 
questions to the physician. Ask him 
how his health is. And beware, of his 
responses are a long list of mediacal 
complaints. Do you have any trouble 
getting him off the subject? is he 
overly sensitive about real physical 
handicaps? 

Family - health, job history and edu¬ 
cation fit very comfortably into the 
interview. Family and personal life 
however require a maximum of sensiti¬ 
vity and tact if you are to avoid an¬ 
noying, offending or invading the per¬ 
son’s privacy. Let him tell you. At 
this stage of the interview if he feels 
you respect him then he will discuss 
these areas with you. What social ac¬ 
tivities does he enjoy? Does he have 
any debts? What does he look for in 
his friends? Can he talk comfortably 
about people beyond the common cliches? 
Why does he want the job? And what 
contribution can he make in the job 
situation? 


Review - before you complete the inter¬ 
view, review the information you have. 
Take a look to see is there are any in¬ 
consistencies that you haven't resolved 
to your satisfaction. One way of doing 
this is to summarize with the person 
the facts that the two of you have ga¬ 
thered. 

Closing - how do you close it? First 
give him any infomation he needs. Don't 
close it with him hanging in mid-air. 
Answer any other question briefly and 
excuse yourself for the next appointment. 

We have reviewed briefly some of the 
basic aspects of interviewing. The most 
important factor is the interviewer him¬ 
self. A relaxed manner is important. 

You must never forget that the candidate's 
behavior in the interview is strongly in¬ 
fluenced by your own. 

Fundamentally it is you who make or 
break the interview; your curiosity about 
differences among people, your belief in 
their worth, and your ability to under¬ 
stand yourself as part of the interview. 


(cont. on page 10) 


FOR RENT 

Property for rent - to clubs, 
community, religious, company 
or other groups for adult, chil¬ 
dren or family camping; 75 acres 
3 lakes, large wharf, diving 
board and tower, playing field, 
bulidings, electricity, central 
water system, former boys' camp; 
by week, month or season: near 
LaChute - 70 miles from Montreal. 

Call (514) 697-6242 


PRINTED NAME TAPES 


YOUR NAME IN BLOCK LETTERS 


Avoid clothing mix-ups 
and losses. Use colour-fast 
Identifab Name Tapes on 
clothing, sheets, blankets, 
towels, etc. To order simply 
fill-out order form below and 
mail 


AVAILABLE IN 
RED. BLACK AND BLUE 


PRICES 50 $4.00 

100 $4.50 

150 $5.75 

(Delivery one week approximately) No phone orders — No C.O. D. please) 

IdInTIFAbT ABELS"REG T D~" 

P.O. BOX 2308, DORVAL. QUEBEC H9S 3H0 

PRICE_COLOUR_ 


I 


| PLEASE SEND ME-- 

| ENCLOSED IS CHEQUE OR MONEY ORDER IN THE AMOUNT OF S . 
I AND MADE PAYABLE TO: IDENTIFAB LABELS REG’D 


NAME . 


I ADDRESS. 
| CITY- 


, PROV. . 


. POSTAL CODE- 


I PRINT NAME HERE 

(ONE LINE ONLY) 


USE PLAIN PAPER FOR ADDITIONAL ORDERS 






Interview Signs Related to Personality Factors 


i. 


Emotional Maturity - the response to a given situation is the appropriate 
one and will help resolve the situation. 


Immaturity 


a. Blames others for his own mistakes 

b. Criticizes more deeply than the facts justify. 

c. Withdraws when rebuffed to a minor degree. 

d. Has aspirations beyond his abilties. 

e. Makes excessive claims regarding his abilties. 
ft. Makes responses he can't carry out. 

g. Excessively dependent upon others for help or praise. 

h. Gives up trying after first failure. 

i. Excessively anxious or tense. 

j. Unable to compromise. 


Dependability 


a. Does he live up to his commitments ? 

b. Does he persevere? 

c. Is he impulsive? 


4. Self-Confidence 


a. Excessively slow in making decisions. 

b. Timidity or oversensitivity. 

c. Domineering or dogmatic. 

d. Cannot defend is point of view against opposition. 

e. Cannot take the lead in conversation. 


5. 


6 . 


Obj ectivity 


a. Excessively critical of people or organizations. 

b. Naive. 

c. Suspicious of others. 

d. Emotional in judging others. 


Values - What he will do. 

a. Accomplishment - Internal motivation; needs little supervision 

b. Recognition or Status - respect of others, pat on back 

c. Power - control or influence over the lives of others 

d. Security - protects self and position 

e. Money - okay when job can satisfy it 

f. Need for Knowledge - may interfere with getting results 

g. Independence from restriction - chafe under close supervision or the need 

to conform 

h. To help others - too much can lead to oversolicitousness and thwarting of 

organization goals 

i. To be liked - can be a disturbing factor when not met 



10 


(cont. on page 12) 




Dispose of camp food 
service problems with 

royal Chinet 

disposable plates and bowls 

Strong, attractive Royal CHINET food service products help you ... 

• DISPOSE OF DISHWASHING COSTS 

Cut the expense of installing, maintaining and manning equipment 
that is used only a few months of the year. 

• DISPOSE OF BREAKAGE 

Save yourself the trouble and expense of buying matching replace¬ 
ments for pieces that crack, chip and shatter. 

• DISPOSE OF FOOD WASTE 

You get exact portion control with Royal CHINET’s wide range of 
sizes in regular and compartmented designs. 

• DISPOSE OF GERM COLLECTORS 

Royal CHINET products are sterilized when manufactured and 
packaged. And there's never a germ-collecting chip, crack or 
poorly washed dish. 

• DISPOSE OF IRRITATING NOISE 

Disposable service is silent service. Meals are relaxed without the 
clatter and crash of china or metal. 

ENVIRONMENTAL ADVANTAGES, TOO 

All good campers want to protect the environment. Royal CHINET prod¬ 
ucts are manufactured from a renewable resource. What’s more, they’re 
biodegradable ... molded of natural wood fibres that burn readily with 
little smoke. Even if discarded out-of-doors, Royal CHINET quickly de¬ 
composes in the earth. 

Get the full particulars now. Mail this coupon today. 


CANADIAN KEYES FIBRE COMPANY LTD. 
HANTSPORT, NOVA SCOTIA 

Please provide me with details of the variety and costs of Royal 
CHINET food service products. 



COMPANY or CAMP 
ADDRESS _ 


* 



PROV 











Interview Signs 

7. Attitudes The applications of values to everyday life. Inferred from the 
significant happenings in his life. 

A. Toward people- 

a. Does he think in terms of things or people? 

b. Is he warm? 

c. Is he domineering? 

d. What kind of persons does he like and not like? 

e. Can he realistically evaluate others' motives? 

f. Is it always me first? 

B. Toward responsiblity - 

a. Does he look for it? 

b. Does he avoid decisions? 

c. Can he take a chance? 

d. Does he face up to his mistakes? 

8 . Social Intelligence - The ability to say and do things in relations with others 
that win their liking and respect. 

a. Flexibility - Adaptibility 

b. Tact - No domineering, hyper-critical, questioning others' motives, 
lacking interest in others, showing off. 

c. Manners and courtesy. 

d. Social understanding - paying attention to others' feelings, knowing 
the motives of others, gaining the co-operation of others. 

e. Sociability - looking for work involving people, ease in personal con¬ 
tacts, can relate to people at all levels. 


This article by Peter Moon, Ph.D P.Eng., Consulting Psychologist appeared in an early 
edition of "Canadian Camping". 


6TT£-800 uss ! 


IZS WSW OldVXNO 'OINOUOl 
avou 3HN3AV 9091 'Z 3J.mS 

opoiwa np sduwa sap uopopossn 
uoijdijossd Suidiuna uDipouva 




