

OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

CANADIAN CAMPING 


February 1055, Toronto, Canada 









Tops 

for Quality 
Serving Camps 
Everywhere 
for Many Years 



NEW TELEPHONE NUMBER 
LY. 0101 


NOW . . . 

A PIE OR PUDDING dessert you don't need to cook — just 
mix with milk. 

A JELLY POWDER —marvellous true fruit flavour that sets 
in 20 minutes—"cold water method" 

NEW PACKAGES — lined, heat sealed. Your Jelly Powder 
can't lose flavour; can't go hard or lumpy. THE LAST WORD 
IN PACKAGING. 


See them at your convention or write us 


GIBBONS £ U "S SET 
i£UALITy 


DESSERTS 


3565 DUNDAS WEST, TORONTO 9 







EATON’S of CANADA 


EATON’S 

Campers wear these crests 
with pride . . . 

at camp, and afterwards too! 

At EATON S Camp Centre, we’ll 
make available to your campers, 
t-shirts and sweat-shirts bearing the 
crest of your camp. For information, 
write, call in person, or phone 
TR. 5111, EATON S Camp Centre, 
Main Store, Second Floor. 

The crests illustrated are those of 
camps which have made this service 
available to their campers. 


Toronto, Canada, February, 1955 


3 






Use the latest methods! 

HALF, with 


Cut pie-making time in 
wonderful ready-to-use Stafford's 
Pie fillings — easy, economical, 
terrific-tastingl 




K/& v# * 


ALL your best-loved 
fillings ! 

PINEAPPLE MINCEMEAT RAISIN 
RASPBERRY BLUEBERRY CHERRY 
APPLE PEACH 




Have happy campers 
this summer! 

Serve Stafford's Fruit Pies oftenl And 
be sure to include these other camp 
favourites, too: 


Hot Chocolate Powder Cake Mixes 

Chicken and Vegetable Noodle Soup Mix 
Pancake Mixes and Pancake Syrup 
Creme Pie Fillings Jelly Powders 

Bakers Flavours Meringue Powder 

Jellies Marmalades Jama 

Order from 


Vtt UKOVi. 


FOODS LIMITED 


37 Hanna Ave, 


Toronto 


BRANCHES: MONTREAL 


WINNIPE' 


EDMONTON 


VANCOUVER 





CANADIAN CAMPING 


Vol. 7 FEBRUARY, 1955 No. 1 


CONTENTS 

A Few Random Thoughts From Your President.Irwin Haladner 7 

National News and Notes . 10 

OCA Minimum Standards for Children’s Camps . 13 

Towards a Philosophy of Camping ..John Hoyle 16 

YMCA Camping in Belgium .Arnold Fraser 18 

Pelee Paradise.David Law 20 

*T Was .........Charlotte Keens 22 

Whoduzit?..W. E. Yard 25 

A Survey of Junior Camping in Ontario . 27 

For Your Camp Library.. 34 


Cover Photograph: YMCA Pinecrest Winter Camp 
Cuts — B. P. Russell, Leamington 

Manufacturers Life Ins. Co. “Manu-Script” 


CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 
Office: Room 407, 170 Bloor St. West, Toronto 
WAlnut 2-0151 


Honorary President 

A. L. Cochrane, Toronto 

Past Presidents 

Taylor Statten. Toronto 
Dais L. Gass, Montreal 
Anne I. Vail. Montreal 
W. E. (Ted) Yard, Toronto 

President 

Irwin Haladner, Toronto 

Vice Presidents 

F. M. VanWagner, Montreal 
Mrs. J. H. McDonald, Winnipeg 
Charles Roche, Vancouver 


Treasurer 

Clifford Labbett 

252 Snowden Avenue, Toronto 

Executive Secretary 

Eanswythe Flynn, Toronto 

Publisher, Canadian Camping 
Fred Haiblen 

170 Bloor Street West, Toronto 
Tel. WAlnut 1-3147 

Editor, Canadian Camping 
Eanswythe Flynn, Toronto 


“CANADIAN CAMPING'* IS PUBLISHED FOUR TIMES A YEAR BY THE CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
CO. FOR THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION AT 170 BLOOR ST. WEST, TORONTO, ONTARIO. SUB¬ 
SCRIPTION PRICES: MEMBERSHIP IN THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION INCLUDES CANADIAN 
CAMPING: TO NON-MEMBERS. 50 CENTS PER COPY, $1.73 PER YEAR, $3.00 FOR THREE YEARS. 

AUTHORIZED AS SECOND CLASS MAIL. POST OFFICE DEPARTMFNT. OTTAWA, ONT. 


Toronto, Canada, February, 1955 


5 












HAVE THE BEST 


CAMPERS' INSURANCE 

MEDICAL REIMBURSEMENT 
ACCIDENTAL DEATH 
TUITION REFUND 
EPIDEMIC 
POLIO 


We have paid thousands of dollars in 
claims for camps which are members 
of the Canadian Camping Association. 
Why not avail yourself of this excel¬ 
lent protection and thereby establish 
another medium of public relations 
with the parents'? 

BEST IN COVERAGE • BEST IN SERVICE 


goodservice ♦ ACCIDENTf fjmNSURANCE- 

COroWY 

RUTLAND, VT 


VERMONT ACCIDENT INSURANCE CO. 

RUTLAND, VERMONT, U.S.A. 


6 


Canadian Camping 



cA 3ew Random kougkt* 

|tom y[our President 


In reading through copies of Can¬ 
adian Camping Magazine since the 
first printed issue in June 1949, I 
found many messages, reports and in¬ 
spiring articles written by the Past 
Presidents of the Association. 

The first thought that occurred to 
me was the difference in the experience 
between your past presidents and your 
present one. Most of the former presi¬ 
dents of the Association have visited 
Canada from coast to coast, or at least 
most of the Provinces. They have met 
and talked with many camping groups. 
It appears that I am the first president 
who has had the limited experience of 
having visited Canada only as far east 
as Montreal and as far west as Wind¬ 
sor. Even my experience in talking to 
camping people from other Provinces 
has been very limited. 

I began to wonder how I could 
possibly have any conception of camp¬ 
ing on a National level. 

As I read through the issues of the 
magazine, looking for articles and 
stories of camping in other Provinces 
that would give me some insight into 
camping across the Country, I found 
relatively few articles written about 
camping east of Quebec and west of 
Ontario. There must be some very 
interesting and enlightening material 
about the special kinds of camping in 
Canada. I would like to make an 


appeal for articles from those who are 
familiar with camping in the Mari- 
times, the Prairie Provinces and the 
far West. 

Most of us here in Ontario and 
Quebec in referring to trips that camp¬ 
ers take out of the base camp, are 
thinking primarily of canoe tripping. 
Hiking, sailing and horse-pack trips are 
practised to some extent but I wonder 
if there isn’t a great deal we could 
learn about other types of trips from 
some of the other Provinces. 

As I read on through the twenty-four 
printed issues to date of “Canadian 
Camping”, I noted that in several 
issues, the objectives and goals of the 
Association were stated. It is obvious, 
and not surprising, that the Canadian 
Camping Association has something 
in common with individual directors. 
Most directors set their sights very high 
with idealistic and imposing objectives. 
This is done with complete sincerity 
even though some of the goals are be¬ 
yond immediate achievement. 

I believe that by this time, I have 
identified myself at meetings of camp 
people as a person who is always sug¬ 
gesting that we start a new year with 
a thorough inventory and evaluation 
so I now ask these questions: 

(a) What are our objectives? 

(b) What have we accomplished? 


Toronto, Canada, February, 1955 


7 


(c) What are our goals for the 
immediate future? 

(d) What are our long term plans? 

(e) What are our problems? 

I would like to restate the objectives 
of the “Canadian Camping Association 
Charter*’, as printed in an article in 
the February, 1950 issue, entitled “Our 
Incorporation And What It Means”. 
In the same article, there followed a 
list of goals for 1950 decided upon at 
a Board Meeting in Ottawa, November 
1949. 

Before repeating these statements of 
objectives, I would like to say that I 
t believe that the past presidents and 
officers of this Association have done 
jit /remarkable job. Some of us may not 
fully appreciate the work and respon¬ 
sibilities they took upon themselves or 
which were thrust upon them. We 
all owe them a sincere debt of gratitude 
for making an autonomous Canadian 
Camping Association possible. This 
was accomplished with what sometimes 
seemed like insurmountable problems. 
In looking at “What We Have Accom¬ 
plished” in relation to our objectives, 
there is no reflection on our past 
executives. Following the pattern of 
camp directors, they did set their sights 
high, higher than the most optimistic 
could ever have hoped to achieve in 
■the short span of five or six years. 
There is no need for discouragement, 
they did accomplish a great deal and 
set the stage for further achievement. 

The objectives as stated in 1950 were 
listed as follows: 

(a) To further the interests and wel¬ 
fare of children, youth and adults 
through camping as an educative, 
character building and construc¬ 
tive recreational experience; 

(b) To act as a co-ordinating body 
for camping throughout Canada; 


8 


(c) To develop and encourage high 
standards in camping and the 
maintenance thereof; 

(d) To study all aspects of camping 
and to interpret and disseminate 
knowledge concerning develop¬ 
ments and regulations pertaining 
thereto; 

(e) To acquire and own assets, prop¬ 
erty, privileges, real estate and 
other rights by purchase, donation 
or legacy for the purpose of the 
Association; to sell, alienate, and 
exchange the said properties and 
to acquire other properties in their 
place. 

The list of goals for 1950 were 
stated: 

At a meeting of the Board, held in 
Ottawa in November, it was decided 
that while the general objectives set 
out in the Preamble to the Constitu¬ 
tion were splendid, the C.C.A should 
choose a few particular goals for 1950. 
At the end of the year it would be 
possible to evaluate the results of the 
efforts and analyze the weaknesses. 
This met with the enthusiastic support 
of the Board and the following Goals 
are listed in priority of importance: 

. 1. That office facilities be established 
for the National Executive to pro¬ 
vide efficient means of communica¬ 
tion between: 

The C.C.A. and Provincial Sections 
The Provincial Sections 
Cooperating Agencies 
Individuals and the C.C.A. 

2. To discover the implications of 
the new Charter and to follow 
meticulously the rules set out by 
the Constitution. 

Models of existing Provincial Con¬ 
stitutions would be exchanged and 
reviewed to make certain they 
were in order with the new Con¬ 
stitution and to assist those pro- 


Canadian Camping 



vinces desiring to set up new con¬ 
stitutions. 

Copies of the Charter to be sent to 
Presidents, Executives and Board 
Members. 

3. To increase membership by at 
least fifty members, the new rou¬ 
tines set up for the Membership 
Committee to be followed. 

4. To define the aims and objectives 
of good camping, the Public Rela¬ 
tions Committee to be responsible 
for circulating this among the 
members and to seek opportunities 
to publish articles, interpreting 
camping to the public, printed in 
newspapers and magazines. 

5. To prepare a Camp Directory of 
all Canadian camps in two sec¬ 
tions: 

(a) All camps, members of the 
C.C.A. 

(b) All other camps. 

6. To assist provincial associations to 
obtain leaders and speakers for 
regional conferences and seminars. 

7. To work toward better standards 
by securing and disseminating ma¬ 
terial through the Committee on 
Standards. 

8. To explore the possibilities of hav¬ 
ing the Dominion government 
build camps for children in nation¬ 
al parks and these camps available 
on a rental basis to agencies. 

9. To present a bibliography of camp 
material in various fields for the 
use of the members of the C.C.A. 

10. To promote international aware¬ 
ness in our camps through greater 
knowledge of the responsibilities 
of Canadian and National Citizen¬ 
ship. 

These objectives and goals have been 
restated in order to have all members 
assist the executive with the inventory¬ 


taking and evaluation, and to make 
plans for immediate goals and a long 
term plan for the Association. We 
would like to hear from all of you, by 
sections or as individual members, as 
soon as possible, offering your criticism 
and suggestions. The first executive 
meeting of the New Year will be 
devoted to determining how the Asso¬ 
ciation can best serve its members. 

One of the major problems of your 
executive officers over the past years 
has been the difficulty of functioning 
on a truly national level. Contact 
between sections to decide policy and 
procedure has been very limited. Most 
decisions are made by a few officers 
in the locality of the President. Stand¬ 
ing committees have rarely had the 
thinking and action from broad repre¬ 
sentation across the country. The great 
distances between sections has made it 
too difficult and expensive to have 
many meetings bringing together repre¬ 
sentatives from each of the sections, 
particularly when the membership in 
some of our sections is so small. The 
strength of our national body will 
depend upon the building up of strong 
sections. 

I would like to close with a repetition 
of a statement made in the December 
issue, 1949, by Anne Vail, who was the 
President Elect at that time: 

“As your new President and on be¬ 
half of the new officers and board of 
your Canadian Camping Association, 
may I greet our members from coast 
to coast. We assure you it is our 
desire and purpose to serve you to the 
best of our ability.” 

Let us all go forward together into 
the New Year with the determination 
that we will make 1955 a very special 
year of progress in our Canadian 
Camping Association. 

IRWIN HALADNER. 


Toronto , Canada, February1955 


9 


National News & Notes 


IT'S CONFERENCE TIME AGAIN! 

This year the Conference takes on 
new significance office-wise, as more 
and more members tell us they will 
visit our new abode. We hope they 
will. That we enjoy. The holiday 
season brought a goodly list of The 
Distinguished. Ruby Smith, Joyce 
Bertram and Mary Kirkwood arrived 
from Montreal. Elaine Wodson, for¬ 
merly with the Hart House Players 
and whb has been playing in various 
Repertory Companies for many years 
in England, shared lunch with us one 
day; and Ted Mack of T.V. fame came 
in on a flying visit between shows . . . 
yes, he is interested in camping too. 

Those who were in New York for the 
Conference last year will recall the 
charm and efficiency of Cornelia Gold¬ 
smith, and the value of her talks. Miss 
Goldsmith is Chief of the Division of 
Day Care and Foster Homes for. the 
Bureau of Child Health, City of New 
York, and will be one of the key 
speakers at our Convention. 

Dates are March 3rd, 4th and 5th; 
place: Toronto’s Central YMCA, 40 
College Street. This year, the Annual 
Meeting is to be held on Thursday 
afternoon. An informal dinner for any¬ 
one who would like to attend can be 
arranged. Opening session, Thursday 
evening; the usual sessions, discussions 
and workshops on Friday and Satur¬ 
day, climaxed by banquets on Friday 
and Saturday evening. Since the Kin¬ 
dred Luncheons packed such a punch 
last year, the Conference Committee 


has been asked to make way for them 
again; so, there will be two: one on 
Friday at noon, one on Saturday at 
noon. 

Something new has been added, and 
we congratulate the committee for 
thinking of it: a session for new camp 
directors or for those who are thinking 
of opening a camp; the title: So You 
Want to Run a Camp. 

Programmes will be mailed as soon 
as we can have them printed. 

Reminders have just come in about 
two other Conferences: 

New Jersey Regional Convention — 
Hotel Claridge, Atlantic City, N.J. 
February 24, 25, 26. Chairman— 
Mr. Frank Ramsey, 9 Lawn Terrace, 
Cranford, N.J. 

Quebec Camping Conference — Uni¬ 
versity Settlement, 3553 St. Urbain 
St., Montreal, March 11th and 12th. 
Mr. Ken Murray, 112 Dunrae Ave., 
Montreal 16. 

NEW TO THE FIELD 

Publicity and Public Relations for 
this and other projects our Association 
is to support this year will be in the 
capable hands of Barry Lowes, director 
of Camp New Moon. This is not 
Barry’s first flight into the realm of 
public relations. His experience has 
been wide and varied. He knows how 
to make contacts and to follow ideas 
through to a successful conclusion. Best 
wishes to our new Chairman! 


JO 


Canadian Camping 






THEY ALSO SERVE . 

We never cease to wonder at the 
enthusiasm of our members when we 
ask for voluntary help. The response 
is always magnificent, and it is this 
spirit of cooperation which keeps the 
Association alive and working in the 
service of others. This month our 
verbal orchids go to Jane Coventry of 
Waseosa, Dr. Eleanore Settrington of 
Oconto, and W. E. Yard of Pinecrest 
for making with saw and hammer, 
paint brush and strong arm in Con¬ 
struction Effort “A” . . . the new office 
shelves. To Mr. Keith Cleverdon of 
Kandalore, for his generous contribu¬ 
tion in stencil-cutting, and for running 
off extra copies of the Seminar Reports 
for distribution across Canada. To Mr. 
L. B. Smith of the Ontario Camp 
Leadership Centre, Ontario Depart¬ 
ment of Education, for the original 
stencils and distribution of Seminar 
Reports to Ontario camp directors. To 
Miss Mary Barker of National YWCA, 
for stencils and extra copies of our 
Bibliography of free literature and 
pamphlets for sale through this office. 
To Miss Adele Gibson, formerly of 
Ahmek, for the stupendous amount of 
work she did in assembling the Seminar 
Reports. To Mrs. A. F. Woollard of 
Centennial, and Miss Betty McCam- 
mon of Glen Bernard, for so kindly 
taking over telephone lists for recent 
Association meetings. Don’t know how 
we could operate without friends like 
these. Don’t know how to say Thank 
You adequately. 

FREE PAMPHLETS AND REPORTS 

Any camp directors or senior staff 
members who have not received reports 
of the Directors’ Seminar or any of the 
free material listed in the Library 
Department of this magazine, please 
write to National Office for your free 
copies. It is one of CCA’s important 


services to the Provinces this year to 
distribute as much free material as 
possible. Herewith our first available 
supply, which we will send on request 
. . . and gladly. 

CANADIAN CANOE STANDARDS 

Urged on by the Board of the Can¬ 
adian Camping Association, Mr. John 
Hoyle, National Chairman on Stand¬ 
ards, is now calling together a com¬ 
mittee to work on the nucleus of a set 
of standards based on those in Mr. Ron 
Perry’s book, The Canoe and You. 
Requests for such standards have been 
overwhelming, and while the work is 
very much in the embryo stage at the 
present time, we do expect to have a 
report of some progress in the’ near 
future. 

YOUR COUNSELLOR 
PLACEMENT BUREAU 

Soon will be upon us the annual rush 
for staff. Soon will the Counsellor 
Placement Bureau be in high gear at 
National Office. 

Would you like to know more about 
this Department? 

As prospective counsellors apply to 
this office, by letter, telephone or in 
person for summer counselling posi¬ 
tions, our files are supplied with a 
record of the name, address and quali¬ 
fications of each one. Any camp direc¬ 
tor who registers with the Bureau may 
refer to these application cards, and 
get in touch with any applicants he 
thinks suitable. Directors who reside 
in Toronto or the Metropolitan Area 
pay $1 registration fee. But as a service 
to out-of-town directors, no registration 
fee is required. From time to time, 
lists of available counsellors are mailed 
to every director who has registered. 


Toronto, Canada, February, 1955 


11 


If a director engages counsellors 
through this Department he pays OCA 
$1 for each one employed, regardless 
of whether or not he resides in the 
Toronto area. 

Cheques may be sent at the time of 
hiring, or payment may be made after 
the Secretary has billed the outstand¬ 
ing accounts in September. 

The Department was very successful 
last year, and we' hope c our promotion 
and advertising will bring in a mature 
type of counsellor, and that more and 
more directors will take advantage of 
this service. 

S O S. TO PROVINCIAL 
SECRETARIES 

Please mail copies of your. News 
Letters, and minutes of your meetings 
to the Secretary at National Office. 
We can then scan them for any news 
of your Provincial doing which will be 
of interest to camping people in other 
parts of Canada. 

And to prepare you further: the 
CCA Annual Meeting comes up in the 
Spring. How about those Annual Re¬ 
ports? Are you jotting down notes and 
news as the year progresses ... all of 


which should be included for presenta- 
tion at that meeting? 

We are ever, so pleased to tell you 
that Mr. C. A. Buckley, Director of 
Big Cove YMCA Camp out of Halifax, 
is our representative in the Maritimes, 
and is working Overtime to bring to¬ 
gether a camping group in that area. 

Jack Pearse is developing the area 
in and around Ottawa, where there 
are some fifteen or more camps which 
are not members of our Association. 

Murray Faulkner reports: “The Al¬ 
berta Camping Association is active, 
particularly in the Calgary branch, and 
you may expect a number of member¬ 
ships for the CCA from this group in 
the near future.” 

. Ken Spence, Ron Shawcross and 
Mrs. W* Woodburn have re-convened 
the Regina Camp Council as the 
nucleus of a Saskatchewan Association, 
in the hope that similar action might 
be taken in the Saskatoon area. 

This is the kind of news we like to 
hear. Our thanks to these pioneers. 
We know their efforts will bring good 
results, the basis of a fast-growing 
Association in the years ahead. 


For-Camping Efficiency and Time-Saving Cleanliness 


TOWELS 

WASTE 

RECEPTACLES 

INSECTICIDES 

PAPER CUPS 


PAPER 

SERVIETTES 



SANITATION 
FOR THE NATION 



WATER 

COOLERS 

CLEANING SOAPS 

DISPENSERS 

SPRAYLETS 


12 


Canadian Camping 








ONTARIO CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR ORGANIZED 
CHILDREN’S CAMPS IN ONTARIO 


It was recently suggested to the Ontario Camping Association that a set of Standards 
be mailed to every Camp Director twice each year . To emphasize the importance of 
these standards, and to bring them to the attention of camping people across Canada, we 
felt they should be reprinted in the Magazine at this time. This will be followed, in the 
April issue, with a report on the January OCA Open Meeting on Standards and Accredita¬ 
tion, at which the Chairman will be Mr. Keith Cleverdon. 

These standards were adopted by the Ontario Camping Association upon 
the recommendation of the Standards Committee, November 5th, 1953. 
(These standards are not mandatory for membership in the Ontario Camping 
Association.) 

Definition: An organized children’s camp is one which accommodates more 
than twelve campers age five to nineteen years, for more than 
one week. 

HEALTH AND SANITATION 

1. A camp must hold a license from, and satisfy the health and sanitation 
requirements of, the Ontario Department of Health, as per the Public 
Health Act, R.S.O. 137 C 299. 

2. Drinking water must be approved by the Department of Health before 
camp opens, and be tested every two weeks during the camp season. 

3. All milk must be pasteurized. 

4. A hot bath or shower must be provided at least once a week when 
campers are in attendance for two weeks or more. 

5. Every camp operating for more than two weeks and with more than 
30 campers must have in residence throughout the season at least one of: 

(a) a graduate medical doctor licensed to practise in Ontario. 

(b) a registered nurse. 

And every other camp must have at least: 

(c) a mature staff member, experienced in first aid, holding the Canadian 
Red Cross Standard Certificate in First Aid, or the St. John Ambulance 
Association Senior First Aid Certificate, or other eqivalent qualifications. 

6. Every camp without a resident doctor must arrange, before the opening 
of camp, for a qualified medical doctor to be on call. 

7. (a) each camper must have a health examination by a doctor or public 
health nurse two weeks prior to going to camp. 

(b) each staff member must have a similar health examination before 
commencement of duties at camp. 

8. A mid-day rest period of not less than one hour must be provided for 
campers. 


Toronto , Canada, February , 7955 


13 


WATERFRONT SAFETY 

1. All waterfront and watercraft activities shall be supervised by a mature 
person holding the Canadian Red Cross Water Safety Instructor’s Certifi¬ 
cate or the Bronze Medallion of the Royal Life Saving Society, or equivalent 
qualifications and with experience in waterfront supervision. 

2. There must be an adequate life guard system whenever campers are 
in the water; that is, at least one life guard for every ten persons, free 
from all other duties during that period and giving his undivided attention 
to the safety of the campers. 

3. All waterfront equipment such as docks and diving boards, and all water¬ 
craft, must be inspected regularly and approved for safety; this to be the 
personal responsibility of the camp operator. 

4. The camp must have definite written and posted safety rules for swimming 
and the use of watercraft, to apply to staff and visitors as well as campers. 
Under no circumstances shall anyone swim alone. 

5. Individual swimming tests must be tried as soon after arrival at camp 
as possible, and before swimming is allowed other than in shallow water. 

6. Swimming and diving must be restricted to a marked, approved swimming 
area except in certain authorized swimming contests, in which a boat, 
manned by two persons and carrying adequate life-saving equipment, shall 
accompany each swimmer. 

7. All non-swimmers must be restricted to an approved enclosed shallow- 
water area. 

8. No person is to be allowed in any watercraft in water beyond his depth 
before he has passed the camp test for that type of craft. 

9. Swimming and watercraft regulations for out-trips must be clearly defined, 
posted and enforced. 

10. Watercraft, other than life-saving patrol boats, must not be allowed in an 
area being used for swimming; campers must not enter or cling to a 
patrol boat except in an emergency. 

11. Precautions must be taken against overloading of watercraft. 

LEADERSHIP 

1. A counsellor or other full staff member must not be less than seventeen 
years of age. 

2. A camp must have not less than one cabin or group counsellor for every 
eight campers. 

(In the case of Boy Scouts, the trained patrol leader may be considered 
as meeting the requirements, and in the case of Girl Guides, by Senior 
Guides of sixteen.) 

3. In the absence of the camp director from camp, his authority must be 
delegated specifically to some other qualified mature person. 

4. No prospective staff member is to be engaged by a camp until the director 
contacts at least one person who knows the applicant. Where the applicant 
has been associated with another camp or children’s organization, the 
director must get a report from this camp or organization as to the appli¬ 
cant’s character and suitability for a camp position. 

5. In camps of more than two weeks’ duration, all staff members must have 
at least one half day each week entirely free from camp responsibility 


14 


Canadian Camping 




your camp 


• McKemco Machine Dishwashing 

Compounds 

• McKemco Hand Dishwashing Compounds 

• McKemco Glass Washing Compounds 

• McKemco Sanitizing Agents 

• McKemco Pots and Pans Cleaners 

• McKemco Insecticides 

• McKemco Washroom Supplies 

• Whitato Anti-Oxidant to keep Peeled 

Potatoes White 

• Anco Grease Trap Cleaner 


• McKemco Special Laundry Compounds 

• McKemco H.X.M. Cleaner Speciol 

Compound No. 15 

• McKemco Laundry Soap Powder 

• McKemco Laundry Foam 

• McKemco Sodium Hypochlorite Bleach 

• McKemco Paradichlorbenzine Crystals 

for Mothproofing 


also 


and ACTIVATER. For trouble-free operation of 
Septic Tanks and Drain Fields. Anco restores 
waste-clogged tanks to normal efficiency . . . 
eliminates odors and protects health. It keeps 

I any properly-built Septic Tank in top working 
condition. 


ANCO SEPTIC TANK CLEANER 


McKAGUE CHEMICAL COMPANY 

1119A YONGE STREET, TORONTO 

and McKAGUE CHEMICALS (EASTERN) LTD. 

421 COURTEMANCHE AVENUE. MONTREAL EAST, QUEBEC 


Write us today for 
complete information on 
any of these quality 
McKemco Products. 

5310 


Toronto, Canada, February, 1955 


15 





Towards A Philosophy 

of Camping T7 

John Hoylk 

Director, Camp GayVenture 
President, Ontario Camping Association 


Basic to all approaches to camper 
development must be our consciousness 
that a camper is always in a state of 
growth; that the standards a camp 
sets as its ideals or objectives for camp¬ 
ers must be related to the developing 
self of the child. Every leader recog¬ 
nizes that there can be no growth with¬ 
out development, nor development 
without growth. True, Camp Directors 
spend much time and effort on working, 
either from above, or from within, a 
programme designed to meet the needs 
of a specified age group. But, is the 
Director always alert to the fact that 
within that group, whether it be 12 or 
24, there are a corresponding number 
of campers with their own individual 
needs? That within the carefully 
worked out programme for the group 
there must be recognition of the needs 
of each individual within that group. 

In a general way it may be said that 
emotional maturity parallels physio¬ 
logical growth and maturity and we 
can readily observe various stages in the 
development of both. On the other 
hand, there are a great number of 
campers whose physical development is 
much more rapid than their emotional 
development, and a programme pro¬ 
jected to meet the average 8-11 year 
old group will find many campers un¬ 
ready emotionally to keep up with the 
general programme arranged for the 
large group. In height, weight and gen¬ 
eral appearance they may seem to be 


much the same but their emotional 
development may differ very greatly. 
The fact is that while the physiological 
maturity may move along in a normal 
way at its own pace, more or less un¬ 
affected by the life around him, emo¬ 
tional or psychological maturity, more 
easily affected by unrecognized influ¬ 
ences, may be travelling at quite a 
different rate of speed, accelerating or 
lingering. 

By an “emotionally mature” camper 
we mean one whose psychological de¬ 
velopment has been well balanced with 
his physiological development and who 
is able to continually and progressively 
find more effective ways of living with¬ 
in and without himself. It may be said, 
parenthetically, that it is probably more 
difficult for a child to be emotionally 
mature (for his age level) than for an 
adult, for the simple reason that adults 
to whom they are responsible are them¬ 
selves so uncertain, so changeable and 
emotionally unstable. What is right 
today may be wrong tomorrow; what 
one leader says is correct, another says 
is incorrect. The marvel of childhood 
and adolescence is that we have as 
many relatively mature campers as we 
actually have! 

Perhaps the following break-down 
may help us as we endeavour to formu¬ 
late our next summer’s programme 
with a view to assisting each and every 
camper towards the development of his 


16 


Canadian Camping 



own emotional stability. While by no 
means complete it is at least definitive 
to an extent. 

A well-balanced (or emotionally 
mature) camper is one who: 

1. Builds up inner resources that 
“carry over” to the life of home. 
Church, School and Community. 

2. Realizes that adequate rest and 
leisure is as necessary as effective 
active play. 

3. Knows that what you are is far 
more important than who you are. 

4. Utilizes camp as an opportunity 
for releasing emotional bandages 
with which over-solicitous parents 
have bound him. 

5. Acquires the art of giving more to 
life than he takes from it. 

6. Understands from experience that 
how a camper does a thing is often 
more important than what he does. 

7. Develops the technique of doing 
things because they are right 
rather than because of the insist¬ 
ence of some extraneous influence. 

8. When faced with alternatives, 
learns to choose wisely on the basis 
of available and reliable previous 
knowledge and experience. 

9. Has built up a relationship with 
others on the basis that to have 
friends one must be friendly. 

10. Despite the pressures, is tolerant 
towards all, understanding and 
appreciative, even in small matters. 

11. Lives democracy, not just talks 
about it. 

12. Practises not self-ishness but self¬ 
lessness. 

13. In theory and practice, distin¬ 
guishes between fun and foolish¬ 
ness. 

14. Shows appreciation of all the good 
things of camp life. 

If). Knows (and practises) that all 
worthwhile achievements are the 
result of intelligent and guided 
effort. 


16. Recognizes any inevitable limita¬ 
tions and learns to adjust to them 
adequately. 

17. Recognizes that there are ultimate 
values in life— 

“To thine own self be true, and 
it must follow, as the night the 
day, thou cans’t not then be false 
to any man.” 

18. Plays and works with satisfaction. 

19. Has a proper sense of social and 
individual pride. 

20. Realizes that most good campers 
are made, not born. 

21. Accepts the dictum that “the good 
camper voluntarily subordinates 
himself to the welfare of the 
group.” 

22. Is eager to assume increasing re¬ 
sponsibility. 

23. Shares in all of life on a religious 
level. 

24. Resolves problems rather than 
evades them. 

25. Stands by a choice once made. 

26. Does not make excuses for defeat, 
nor emphasize his successes un¬ 
duly. 

27. “Plays the game” as a good sports¬ 
man, at all times. 

28. Is capable of righteous anger. 

29. Discriminates between situations 
which apear to give immediate 
pleasure, but which in the long 
run, may be negative. 

30. Is big enough to compromise when 
the situation demands it. 

31. Is ready to give affection and to 
receive it. 

32. Can accept frustration without 
“going overboard”. 

33. Realizes that life is a battle and 
that the less he fights within, the 
more strength he will have left for 
the struggle without. 

34. Has no racial or religious prej¬ 
udices. 

(continued on page 35) 


Toronto, Canada, February, 1955 


17 


YMCA CAMPING IN BELGIUM 

Arnold Fraser, formerly Executive Secretary of High Park YMCA in Toronto, is at 
present on the staff of the World Alliance of YMCA's in Geneva, Switzerland. We were 
pleased when he sent us’this article , and hope many more will ccme our way from ether 
parts of Europe during his stay. 


We in Canada never realize the 
priceless heritage we have in forest and 
stream and thousands upon thousands 
of lakes. Camping has been so large a 
part of our past and still continues to 
provide our most popular means of 
summer enjoyment, we fail to realize 
the problems which are faced by over¬ 
crowded countries in their efforts to 
develop a camping programme which 
Will provide some of the richness of 
enjoyment and educational opportuni¬ 
ties which are inherent in camping. 

The other day while in Belgium, I 
had a chance to discuss their truly 
remarkable camping programme with 
Hugh Boudin, the National Secretary 
for Boys’ Work in that country. Bel¬ 
gium is the most heavily populated 
country in Europe. It seems as though 
every square kilometre has people liv¬ 
ing on it. There are no thousands of 
miles of uninhabited Crown land open 
to campers, and yet the Belgian people 
through the YMCA have done a won¬ 
derful job in camping. I want to take 
you quickly through the report of their 
1954 camping season, with a few 
sentences here or there which give you 
some idea of their achievements. 

This has been the eighth year since 
Belgium was liberated that the annual 
summer camping programme has taken 
place. The first post-war camps were 
just a few handfuls of campers huddled 
together in empty, badly damaged 
bunkers left over from Hitler’s de¬ 
fensive “Atlantic Wall” on the Belgian 
coast. Now the Belgian YMCA has 
two well-equipped tent camps; one at 


Nieuport-Bains and one at Han-sur- 
Lesse in the interior. Nieuport-Bains 
is located on the coast, a site which has 
been obtained only after great difficulty 
and long term negotiations with the 
authorities. Han-sur-Lesse is a beauti¬ 
ful site built among the hills near the 
Ardennes forests. All of the facilities 
are under canvas. 

Let me quote from the report con¬ 
cerning their objectives in camping. 
“This experience of learning to live 
with others in a new situation is part 
of the growing-up process. 

As such it is one of the major camp 
objectives, because only by learning to 
live with others can anyone reach real 
maturity . . . The give and take of 
camp life is often a youngster’s first step 
toward independence.” 

Then P found this wonderful quota¬ 
tion from Charles Wagner. I will not 
attempt to translate it from the French 
because it would lose some of its sig¬ 
nificance, but with a French dictionary 
you can certainly capture the idea: 

“Chaquc tete blonde ou briine est 
une esperance de l’humanite, une 
esperance de Dieu. 

Que cette esperance murisse et .fruc- 
tifie comme la graine au sillon, qui 
done ne le desire? 

Aucun interet n’est superieur a celui 
de l’education. 

A quoi sert le reste si les valeurs 
humaines sont en baisse?” 

Charles Wagner. 

(continued on page 24) 


18 


Canadian Camping 



NEW LIFE FOR ALL SEPTIC TANKS 


SEPTIC-AIDE 

OVERCOME AND AVOID TROUBLE 
• Cleans • - Revitalizes • No Yeast • Cuts Grease and Soap Curds 
SAFE SIMPLE SURE 

You can be sure of an efficient, fully operating septic system when you 
use new SEPTIC-AIDE. Cuts grease and soap curds, cleans drain tile, 
improves seepage. SEPTIC-AIDE IS NOT YEAST ... it is concentrated 
Protelytic Enzymes that give new life to sluggish or blocked septic 
systems and cesspools. The most efficient known septic re-vitalizer, 
yet costs far less than any substitute. Insist on SEPTIC-AIDE. 

Made by Makers of MISTO-VAN 

Atk your wholesaler lor SBPTIC-AIDB or wrllo direct to; 

TILLEY’S LIMITED 

430 COLLEGE STREET - TORONTO 


For Your Resort 
or Camp . . . 

• Prompt and 
Reliable Service 

• A Wide Range of 
Products 

Fresh, smoked and ready-to-serve meats; Canned Meats, Fish, 
Fruits and Vegetables; Domestic Shortening; Tenderflake Lard; 
Margene; Butter, Eggs / Cheese; Poultry; Peanut Butter, Pickles, 
Olives; Jams and Marmalade; Soap Flakes and Toilet Soap 
Prompt attention given all orders. 

We shall be glad to discuss how we can serve you best 
Address: Sales Department, Toronto or Peterborough. 

CANADA PACKERS LIMITED 



Toronto, Canada,-February, 1955 


19 






PELEE 

PARADISE 



B P. Russell, Leamington 


The long, bald point of sandy soil 
stretching southward into Lake Erie, is 
called Point Pelee. It was named by 
the voyageurs from the French word 
pelee—meaning bald or barren. 

'The history goes back to 1670 when 
Dolier and Galinee in their notable ex¬ 
ploration encamped on the east beach. 

In 1763 Lt. Abraham Cuyler’s 
detachment of Royal Americans and 
Queen’s Rangers were attacked and 
defeated by the Wyandotte Indians. 

General Brock’s expedition landed 
August 13th, 1812—four days before 
the taking of Detroit and Hull’s army. 

By 1865 settlers had moved in with 
grist and saw mills. Stage coach routes 
and a dock were built at Leamington. 
The last of the Ojibways were pushed 
out. A dozen farmers and fishermen 
won title to about six hundred fertile 
acres on the Point. Descendants of 
these families still live there. The old 
timers in Leamington tell many inter¬ 
esting tales of the Point. Forty years 
ago no one ever went down there for 


David Law 
Leamington, Ontario 

Reprinted through the courtesy of 
Canadian Nature 


pleasure. The mosquitoes and the Hies 
were bad—roads were poor. Mr. R. A. 
Logan and the late Dr. Sloane cut the 
first road through to the East Beach. 
Capt. Jim Grub, a life-long resident, 
fished and manned the lighthouse as his 
father did before him. His birthplace 
has long since been washed off the 
Point as the water of Lake Erie rose. 

As early as 1879 Canadian natural¬ 
ists realized the importance of this 
small strip of land because of its geo¬ 
graphical position and climate. In the 
words of Dr. William Brodie (who first 
tramped its wilds) “The point is a veri¬ 
table outdoor laboratory of natural 
history research.” His enthusiasm 
brought Dr. N. E. Saunders of London. 
It was not long until groups of natural¬ 
ists were probing the secrets of this 
wonderful place. 

Point Pelee is probably the most 
chronicled, best studied and scientific¬ 
ally observed block of land in the 
country. Scientists, newspaper column¬ 
ists, and experts in many fields have 
come to study spiders, snakes, coyotes, 
mink and muskrat, birds, trees, flowers. 


20 


Canadian Camping 



r 


f 


l 


rocks, and lately archaeologists have 
been searching for Indian graves. 

Dr. William Gunn, director of the 
Federation of Ontario Naturalists, has 
now launched a new Pelee project. He 
is making recordings of bird songs at 
the Point and is then playing them 
back to the startled creatures for a 
study of bird emotional reaction. 

The park is a place of unusual 
beauty, of luxurious and dense vegeta¬ 
tion. Many examples of flowers, vines 
and trees have surprised interested 
students. Among these are the prickly 
pear cactus, red mulberry and dog¬ 
wood. The remarkable forest growth 
of the park includes many varieties of 
maple, oak, evergreen, elm, ash, nut 
and fruit' trees. At the present time 
apple orchards at the Point produce 
prize winning apples. Point Pelee 
Delicious apples are internationally 
famous. Here at the point you can 
raise pecans, oranges and cotton, be¬ 
cause of the climate, which is really 
wanner than Los Angeles. 

Famous for its birds, Point Pelee is 
one of the main stops in the migrant 
journeys of our feathered friends each 
spring and fall. Many species of birds 
usually found in southern locations, 
including the Carolina Wren, Cardinal, 
Cerulean Warbler and Blue Grey Gnat- 
catcher are common residents or regu¬ 
lar migrants. 

Hundreds of bird watchers from all 
parts of America are drawn to Point 
Pelee to witness the fascinating phen¬ 
omena of nature—migration. During 
the month of May our family joins this 
trek—we make frequent field trips— 
but on or around the week of the 24th 
the warblers are the main attraction. 

At five o’clock in the morning we 
rise—perhaps a little unwillingly. With 
our picnic basket we journey down to 
the Point and choose a good spot. With 
the wood already cut and neatly piled 


for use we soon have a roaring fire 
and a few minutes later we sit down tp 
a breakfast of orange juice, bacon and 
eggs, burnt toast and hot coffee. With 
a chorus of a hundred birds singing 
in surrounding trees our mood soon 
changes. 

After breakfast we separate, and 
with binoculars, pencil and pad and 
our trusty bird book we go into the 
more thickly wooded areas to tabulate 
the numbers and varieties of birds we 
can see. 

On one small tree we counted five 
different species of warblers—the trees 
are literally filled with these tiny song¬ 
sters. Warblers are beautifully coloured 
birds that range in size from two to 
four inches. It is easy to distinguish 
the Blackburnian Warbler (black and 
orange). Yellow Warbler, Chestnut 
sided, Olive green, Black and White 
warbler, the Redstart with his trim 
black figure and brilliant crimson bands 
on his wings and the lovely Indigo 
Bunting with his beautiful blue coat. 

While walking down the east beach 
some people asked us to look through 
their high powered binoculars toward 
the fishing nets. There on the very end 
pole was a Crested Cormorant, a rare 
sight even at Pelee. He must have 
been very tired for he rested there a 
long time. 

In the Fall, ornithologists watch the 
amazing hawk migration. On a good 
day the sky will be black with these 
birds making their journey south. At 
about the same time of year the Mon¬ 
arch butterflies rest at the Point on 
their way back to southern California. 
Their life cycle and interesting migra¬ 
tion is a story all in itself, but it is a 
wonderful sight to see trees and bushes 
literally alive with these beautiful 
butterflies. Point Pelee is truly a haven 
for God’s lovely creatures. 

(continued on page 42) 


Toronto, Canada, February , 1955 


21 


*T WAS 


Among her other duties, Charlotte Keens finds time to edit a monthly magazine , 
“Splashl”. For her December issue she turned poetess and improvised with the following 
ditty , one which should be dear to the hearts of all waterfront folk. Miss Keens is 
Supervisor of the Swimming and Water Safety Department of the Red Cross Society 
(Ontario Division), and an enthusiastic member of our Camping Association. 


*Twas the hour set for classes, and all 
through the house 

Instructors were waiting their classes to 
dowse; 

The kickboards were stacked in a corner 
with care, 

And the lifeguards were hoping kids soon 
would be there. 

The children assembled in green suits and 
reds 

And thoughts full of mischief danced through 
their heads; 

Mamas in their kerchiefs, and I in my cap, 

Were preparing ourselves for any mishap. 


When out on the dock there arose such a 
clatter, 

I sprang from my thoughts to see what was 
the matter; 

Away to the ring buoy I flew like a flash, 

Tore oflf the line, and threw out the sash. 

The class with its safety had started to .go 

But they froze in amazement at my accurate 
throw 

I hauled in the line to see what would 
appear 

And got ready to blast the one little dear. 

*Twas a little boy diver so lively and quick 

So I settled his hash with a well planted 
kick! 



Before starting my class, while the kids were 
still dry 

The theories of safety I tried to supply, 

How long we should wait after dinner is 
thru*— 

The proper way out of and in a canoe. 

From pushing and horseplay they must stay- 
aloof 

I patiently explained to each little goof. 

If your leg muscle seizes, and sadly you’ve 
found 

That even by stretching you can’t touch the 
ground, 

And you’ve swum much too far from the 
accompanying boat 

Get rid* of the cramp doing a jelly fish float. 

If you’re really too far and you think you 
may crack 

Then over you go and swim home on your 
back. 


More rapid than minnows my kids rose to 
fame. 

As I whistled and shouted and called them 
by name: 

“Now Johnny, now Edward, on Tommy and 
Dixon 

On Barbara and Jane—that front glide 
needs fixin’ 

In stagger formation, now, swim to the wall, 



My class started to wiggle, and I became 
wary. 

So I thought with the theory I’d no longer 
tarry. 

So off on their back glide they started to go 

To be met by their partners, their faces 
aglow; 

We finished all that, now a game for relief, 

I was suddenly stopped by a howling of grief. 

(continued on page 26) 


22 


Canadian Camping 



23 


Toronto, Canada, February, 1955 







HANDBOOK OF 
TRAIL CAMPCRAFT 

John A. Ledlie - Editor 

$4.95 

Fully illustrated with photographs and 
drawings. Here are some of the 
important topics covered in this book: 

Steps in Developing the Program 

Leadership Training 

Health and Safety on the Trail 

Canoe Camping 

Direction Finding 

Sanitation on the Trail 

Weather Forecasting 

Clothes and Bedding 

Care and Use of Tools and Shelters 

Fire, Food and Cooking 

Winter Camping 

Trail Dangers 

at your bookstore, or 

G. R. WELCH CO. LIMITED 

1149 King St. W., Toronto 3, Ontario 


GUMPERT HAS EVERYTHING 


| Gelatine 

I Cream Oe»*om 0u hY<i' o,ed1 

L wH Dr.nW.aM«- d0,hY 

1 Extract, and Caiou.r 
Spo fl heH. Sauce 

\ soup. (Liquid and OehY 
1 Cake Mixes 

Cample Line »« 


FOR THE FINEST IN FOODS 


GUMPERT 


HAS EVERYTHING 


S. GUMPERT CO. OF CANADA, LTD 
31 BROCK AVE., TORONTO ME. 3758 


(continued from page 18) 

Programme in these camps certainly 
cannot be the same as ours in Canada 
and yet it is possible to capture some 
of the same results. The main problem 
in hiking for example, is to keep oft 
other people’s territory. As a result the 
hiking programme is usually in con* 
junction with trips in chartered buses, 
sometimes to especially preserved for¬ 
ests, sometimes to places ot ancient and 
historic interest. There is a good deal 
of history wrapped up in the hiking 
programme and consequently a good 
educational experience. 

'Though swimming opportunities are 
not so easily provided as in Canada, 
nevertheless a large number of boys 
and girls are taught to swim each year. 

Oh yes, one fact that will interest 
you very much is that all the camps 
are on a co-educational basis, although 
there are specific aspects of the pro¬ 
gramme for boys and girls separately. 
These are mainly athletic programmes 
which are highly organized and provide 
both a good deal of skill training in 
athletics as well as a means of develop* 
ing healthy bodies. 

Of course the camp fire is, as much 
as at home, the centre of camp life. 
By the wonderful soft light of the fire 
at night many stories are told and 
friendships are forged as the eyes of 
Belgian youth look through the flames 
expectantly to the future. 

Nor has the Belgian YMCA for¬ 
gotten its responsibility to serve others 
through its camping programme. Last 
year camping was provided by the 
Belgian YMCA for almost one hundred 
sons and daughters of personnel of the 
American Armed Services in Europe. 
This programme was arranged in co¬ 
operation with Mr. Charles Tidball, 
the European Representative of the 
American YMCA’s Armed Services 
Department. In this instance American 
(continued on page 42) 


24 


Canadian Camping 





WHODUZIT? 

(This is the second in this series of “checklist** type articles) 
By YV. E. Yard 


Most of us have, at one time or 
another, attempted to analyze the scope 
of various staff positions, and it has 
proven invariably to be a rewarding, 
’though at times, laborious experience. 

Many camps use different titles for 
staff, and many who use similar titles, 
find quite logically that because of 
peculiarly individual characteristics 
and practices, they expect entirely 
different things from staff members 
who “nominally** fill the same position. 

In each case a job analysis outline 
is given for a “typical” camp position. 
Please do not consider that this out¬ 
line is presented as an ideal; it is 
merely to be considered as a reasonably 
orderly outline of responsibilities for a 
given position in one situation. We 
do, however, invite you to relate both 
the position and the individual respon¬ 
sibilities to your own situation, and 
then to sketch out, for your own camp, 
a job analysis for this position or for 
the position which most closely re¬ 
sembles the one being analyzed. 
WATERFRONT DIRECTORS’ 
RESPONSIBILITIES 

1. The Waterfront Director is respon¬ 
sible for the total Waterfront Program, 
which involves:— 

(a) The organization and maintenance 
of an adequate waterfront instruc¬ 
tion program in swimming, diving, 
life saving, canoeing, and sailing, 
working in co-ordination with his 
own staff, the Out-Trip staff, and 
staff members of the Sections who 
are qualified to instruct in Water¬ 
front skills. 

(b) Promote an awareness of Water 
Safety among staff and campers by 
literature and demonstrations. 

(c) Maintenance of Waterfront equip¬ 
ment; instruction to staff and 


campers in proper care and hand¬ 
ling of canoes, sailboats, etc. 

(d) Keeping the Waterfront in orderly 
and safe condition. 

(e) Assistance with, or direction of 
special Waterfront activities, e.g., 
Section swimming, diving and 
canoeing regattas. 

(f) A program of regular General 
Swims and boating periods in 
which the whole Waterfront Staff, 
assisted by members of Senior and 
Junior Sections staff, serve as life¬ 
guards and supervisors. 

2. The Assistant Waterfront Director 
assists Waterfront Director in program¬ 
ming and maintenance of the whole 
Waterfront, assuming full responsibility 
for the Waterfront in the absence of 
the Waterfront Director. 

3. The Waterfront Staff is normally on 
duty at all General Swims and boating 
periods. 

4. Tests passed in Swimming, Canoe¬ 
ing, Sailing, and Life Saving are re¬ 
corded daily by the Waterfront Direct¬ 
or as are all Waterfront activities. 
These reports are given to the Camp 
Director. Charts are maintained which 
show the progress in Waterfront skills 
of each camper. 

5. For all swimming periods a buddy 
system is used, and strict rules set up 
with regard to:—conduct, position and 
uniform of guards, swimming bound¬ 
aries, and boating precautions. 

6. A summary of all Waterfront ac¬ 
tivities, attendances and tests passed is 
prepared at the end of the season as 
a compilation of the waterfront reports 
which are filed daily in the camp office. 

7. An inventory of canoes, boats, and 
equipment is prepared by the Water¬ 
front Staff at the end of each season 
together with notes as to the condition 
of the various pieces of equipment. 


Toronto , Canada , February , 1955 


25 



Prescott Hide & Skin Company Limited 

121 Prescott Avenue 

RO. 7-5421 Toronto, Ont. 

Dealers in Sheepskins (no leathers) 
for making 

SUPPERS • GLOVES • FLOOR RUGS • MOTOR RUGS 
BABY CARRIAGE COVERS, ETC. 


(continued from page 22) 

It was one of my monsters, a pain in his 

("l belly; 

iie’d been munching away on a bag full of 

^ jelly 

He was chubby and plump, a right jolly 
wee elf 

And I laughed at his misery in spite of 
myself. 

With a tear in his eye, and a twist of his 
head, 

And then a weak smile “I’m sorry”, he said. 

I spoke nary a word, went straight on with 
my work, 


And thought to myself, what a strange little 
jerk! 

After talking about safety—well—so it goes 
This teaching of swimming—a series of 
blows! 


But time was all gone, I sprang to my 
whistle, 

The kids all emerged as blue as a thistle 

And I heard them exclaim as they dashed 
out of sight 

‘‘That’s a heck of a class to get involved in, 
all right!” 



1 . 

2 . 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6 . 
7. 


CANADIANS 
ARE CAMPERS 


JOIN THE CANADIAN 
CAMPING ASSOCIATION 


For further information write — 
CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 
170 BLOOR STREET WEST, 
TORONTO 5, ONTARIO 


National Convention in co-operation with Provincial Associations. 
National Magazine—CANADIAN CAMPING—published quarterly. 
National office to co-ordinate national and provincial projects. 
Access to up-to-date camping library. By mail service. 

A part in promoting better Minimum Standards for all camps. 
Parent and public education regarding benefits of camping. 

Active membership in nation-wide fellowship of camp people. 


Remember: Your membership in a provincial organization includes membership 
in The Canadian Camping Association and a subscription to "Canadian 
Camping". 


26 


Canadian Camping 





A Survey of Junior Camping In Ontario 

Conducted by the Toronto Nursery Education Association — 1954, and 
presented herewith for any CCA members who wish to study it. 

Flora Morrison 

Chairman of the Survey Committee 

The Camping Committee of the Toronto Nursery Education Association wishes to 
thank Dr. Mary L. Northway for her advice and assistance in the preparation of this report. 


Should children under seven go to 
camp? 

This question has been a basis for 
considerable discussion and contro¬ 
versy. Whether they should or not, the 
fact is that a considerable number of 
young children do, and it is possible 
that the number will be greater in the 
future. 

1,048 children of six years or under 
were known to have gone to camp in 
Ontario during the summer of 1951: 
This was discovered by the camping 
committee of the TNEA through a 
questionnaire sent to 45 camps belong¬ 
ing to the Ontario Camping Associa¬ 
tion which stated in the directory that 
they accepted children in this age 
group. Replies were received from 22 
camps. Of these, one camp had 576 
campers, and as these were often ac¬ 
companied by their mothers, the data 
for this camp were analysed separately. 

The other twenty-one camps in¬ 
cluded 472 under-sevens—9% were 2 
years of age; 10% three; 11% four; 
27% five, and 40% six. Indeed, 45 
two-year-olds, 48 three and 53 fours 
were at camp. 

Let’s leave this survey for a moment 
and recall a little of the history of 
camping. When this began during the 
latter 19th century in the United States 


it was definitely planned for adolescent 
boys. Clergymen or scout leaders took 
a small group of teen-agers for a period 
of outdoor living in the woods. In 
Canada in 1884, the Ottawa Y went 
camping at Golden Lake and in all 
probability established the first Can¬ 
adian camp. 

In the early nineteen hundreds, girls* 
camps began when Miss Fannie Case 
took a group of girls from Rochester 
to Algonquin Park. After the first great 
war a great number of camps for both 
boys and girls were started. On the 
whole these were designed, too, for 
adolescents. Gradually younger broth¬ 
ers and sisters were included and the 
age level dropped. So in 1949 in 
Ontario, while the average age of 
campers was around 11 or 12, the range 
was from two to seventeen. 

In twenty-five years, camping has 
undoubtedly proved itself as a worth¬ 
while, indeed a specially happy ex¬ 
perience for boys and girls. The 
question that arises is whether what 
is good for the teen-ager is also good 
for the pre-schooler. Algebra and 
hockey and tinkering with motor-cars 
or investigating make-up, while cer¬ 
tainly valuable for the adolescent, are 
not usually featured for the under-six. 
Are camps giving young children a 
good experience too soon, and thereby 
turning it into a poor one? 


Toronto, Canada, February, 1955 


27 



This is the next question vvhicii the 
TNEA committee investigated. Has 
camping been modified to meet the 
needs of the young child, or is he 
expected to live in a setting only 
slightly modified from that designed 
for the adolescent? 

The survey therefore asked camp 
directors to describe the practices 
which they followed in their camps for 
the young child. The most striking 
result was the diversity in answers. 
Some camps (35%) have separate 
dining rooms for the young children, 
others do not; some have a scheduled 
programme for as much as five hours 
of activities, others for as few as two. 
On the whole there is little time for 
solitary or individual play. Formal 
instruction is given in almost all camps 
in swimming and crafts. Riding, dram¬ 
atics, music, boating, archery, boxing, 
sailing, volley ball, cooking and fishing 
are included in some. 

Twelve hours for night sleep is avail¬ 
able for two and three year olds, and 
one to two hours afternoon rests; 
eleven for four and fives, and from ten 
to twelve for sixes. Most directors 
attempt to assess a child’s readiness for 
camp by a visit to the home and by 
using such devices as pre-unions, trial 
periods at camp, etc. Nine camps 
require a university graduate as a 
supervisor. Cabin counsellor qualifica¬ 
tions vary from trained nursery school 
teacher, to being sixteen years of age. 

While the above facts give an over¬ 
all picture of camping practices for 
young children, studying the reports 
from each camp shows that some are 
definitely structured for the young 
child, others are simply slightly modi¬ 
fied forms of the older boys’ and girls’ 
life. One director says: 

“Camp is somewhat of a Nursery 

School moved to the country, with 

all the richness that the country can 


offer. Care of animals, gardening, 
cooking out, grass to roll in, woods 
and fields to explore, and rivers and 
lakes to know. These are some of 
the things that give young children 
an opportunity to progress steadily 
toward confidence and maturity with 
a chance for unhurried, individual 
growth.” 

Having obtained these facts and 
organized them into a report, the 
committee sent a copy to seven experts 
in child care, asking their opinions 
on several matters. A medical officer 
of a public health department, a pro¬ 
fessor of social work, a child psycholo¬ 
gist, and a member of the day nurseries 
branch of the department of public 
welfare replied. 

These are some opinions which they 
expressed: 

(1) “As a general principle we feel 
that the pre-school child is too young 
to benefit from organized camps, par¬ 
ticularly where it involves separation 
from the family. If the pre-school child 
goes to camp at all, it should be in the 
family type of camp where he possibly 
has a program arranged for him for a 
couple of hours in the morning and 
afternoon and during the rest of the 
time is with his mother or other mem¬ 
bers of the family. I do not believe that 
enough attention has been paid to the 
possibility of increasing the number of 
camps of this type. (I would assume 
that the large camp which you describe 
in your survey probably includes the 
mothers as well as the pre-school 
children.) 

If the pre-school child is to attend 
a camp without some other member 
of the family there certainly needs to be 
very definite reasons for him to do so 
and a real attempt to make some other 
plan for his temporary care away from 
the family. 

(continued on page 30) 


28 


Canadian Camping 




MAKE PLANS NOW TO ATTEND 

THE 1 955 CONFERENCE 

of the 

ONTARIO CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

G If You Are Interested in Campers and Camping Generally 
© If You Want To Meet With Your Own 

Kindred Groups at Luncheon 
O If You Are Interested In Canoeing Standards 
6 If You Are Building, This Year 

© If You Have Been a Camp Director For Some Time 
© If You Are A New Camp Director 

Join us for three days of workshops, kindred meetings, 
discussion groups and stimulating talks 
at 

CENTRAL YMCA, 40 COLLEGE STREET, TORONTO 
Thursday, Friday, Saturday, March 3, 4, 5, 1955 

For Programmes and Registrations write to: Ontario Camping Association, 
Room 407, Park Plaza, 170 Bloor Street West, Toronto 5, WA. 2-0151 


are built exclusively 
by the builders of 

TAYLOR 

CRAFT 

Canada's Leading 

CRUISERS 

and 

SAILBOATS 


J. J. TAYLOR & SONS LIMITED 

on the Western Channel - TORONTO 


Toronto, Canada, February, 1955 


29 









(continued from page 28) 


IF SAFETY IS A 
FACTOR 

YOU MUST CONSIDER 
AER-O-BUOY 

FLUTTER BOARDS 

FLOAT MARKERS 
RING BUOYS 

PADDLE BOARDS 

• 

BEACH POOL & CAMP 
SUPPLY COMPANY 

Specialists in Aer-O-Buoy 
Buoyancy Products 

Box 97, Oakville, Ontario 


For 

• Expert Advice 

• on 

• Labour Saving 

• and efficient 

• Gas Appliances 

• for your Camp 

• Consult 

SUPERIOR 
PROPANE 
Limited 

26 St. Clair Ave. E. 
Toronto - WA. 4-7441 


(2) Granted that some pre-school chil¬ 
dren will be at camp either with or 
without their mothers, the following 
points should be kept in mind: 

(a) They should be handled in 
small groups away from the excite¬ 
ment and rush of groups of older 
children—for instance, if they have 
to eat in the same dining room as the 
older children, they should have it 
a little bit earlier so that they would 
not be subjected to the noise and 
confusion usually associated with 
camp dining rooms. 

(b) Their scheduled program 
should be for a relatively short time 
with longer periods of free play 
under supervision. 

(c) Formal instruction in swim¬ 
ming, crafts, music, etc., should be 
kept to a minimum. 

(d) There should be a mid-morn¬ 
ing and afternoon snack and an 
evening snack, unless the children 
are in bed about 7:00 p.m. The 
strenuous life makes these snacks 
very important in keeping the pre¬ 
school child from becoming over- 
fatigued. 

(e) If the pre-school children are 
at camp away from their families 
there should be very few to a cabin 
and the counsellors should be mature, 
responsible people who are alert to 
the needs of the pre-school child. 

(f) Particularly where the child 
goes to camp without his parents 
there should be a period of prepara¬ 
tion for this experience. Director 
and cabin counsellor should meet 
child and the parents in his home if 
at all possible. The child should get 
to know one or two other children 
who might be in his cabin group 
before he goes off to camp.” 



30 


Canadian Camping 



“We think that a camp should give 
most careful thought to the acceptance 
of children under five years, unaccom¬ 
panied by their mothers. We doubt 
the value of camp experience for these 
young children and it may even have 
deleterious effects, although there is 
little doubt that for an older age group 
the experience is of great benefit. The 
young children would be better with 
the individual care of their parents. 
However, if placement in camp seems 
necessary because of some unusual 
family circumstance, then a short camp 
period might be considered. The camp 
situation should approximate that of 
the home as far as possible. Individual 
care given by counsellors who have 
been carefully chosen, would be the 
best substitute. We observe from the 
report that there is some thought given 
to “readiness for camp”. It would be 
interesting to know specifically how this 
is evaluated, but the general idea would 
certainly be helpful, especially the visit 
of the camp’s Director to the home of 
the child. 

The first thought that comes to our 
minds is the matter of adequate pro¬ 
vision for medical and health super¬ 


vision. These arc particularly import¬ 
ant with groups of children under five 
years. The accident rate is high and 
care for both prevention and treatment 
is necessary. Any camp for these young 
children would require a physician on 
call and a registered nurse in residence. 
This nurse would need a knowledge of 
communicable diseases and have had 
recent experience in first aid. In addi¬ 
tion, plans should be made for isolation 
and care of sick children. 

Pre-admission physical examinations 
are, of course, essential. We note that 
all camps have rest periods but that the 
total hours of rest vary considerably 
from one camp to another. Rest is 
important. It is possible that a two 
year child may require as much as 15 
hours* rest and there is wide individual 
variation. With the very stimulating 
environment of camp, great care will 
need to be exercised to ensure sufficient 
rest. Fatigue is likely to be one of the 
hazards for these very young children. 

The qualifications for staff are most 
important and we would recommend 

(continued next page) 


Make Redbook Camp Directory Your 



U.S. Representative 

Redbooks circulation guarantee 
is 2,000,000 

net paid copies per month. 

Canadian circulation 
124,123 copies per month. 

Interpreted in terms of Canadian 
readers 300,000 per month 

FOR INFORMATION ADDRESS: 

ETHEL F. BEBB 

Director and Editor, Camp Department 

230 PARK AVENUE NEW YORK 17, N.Y. 


Toronto , Canada , February , 1955 


31 




that camp counsellors meet the qualifi: 
cations for staff as described in the 
Ontario Day Nurseries’ Act of 1947. 
This includes a “Specialized Knowledge 
of Pre-School Methods of Child Guid¬ 
ance”. 

“It is my opinion that pre-school 
children should not be sent to country 
camp unless there are very special 
needs or circumstances—ill or absent 
parents, specialized health needs, etc. 

(1) Children this age in our culture 
are not ready to spend weeks away 
from home by any criteria I have 
yet found. 

(2) That age does not group and 
hence does not stimulate a family 
setting with peers. 

(3) There are very few camps that 
can or do afford staff of sufficient 
size or maturity and training to begin 
to compensate for the disadvan¬ 
tages.” 

“As a psychologist, I am well aware 
of the importance of these early years 
for the child’s physical and psycho¬ 
logical development. If children of this 
age are camping, it is of great import¬ 
ance that the camps be suitable for 
their needs I would suggest emphati¬ 
cally that the Camping Association 


should consider the results of your 
study very carefully and devise some 
standards which will protect the young 
child in a situation which could, all too 
easily, do him more harm than good. 

My opinions are: 

1. The child under seven years 
should not be part of the kind of 
organization we generally associ¬ 
ate with the term “camp”. He 
should not, under any circum¬ 
stances, be included in a camp 
designed for the adolescent and 
the pre-adolescent. 

2. However, he may properly go to 
a “family camp” of the type 
described by Ernest Osborne, in 
which he lives with his family 
but it is supervised for part of 
the day by counsellors while his 
parents pursue their own recrea¬ 
tion. 

3. He may go to a camp for mothers 
and children. These are usually 
run by welfare organizations and 
can be well used to meet the 
young child’s need. 

4. He may, if necessary, go to a 
camp especially designed for the 
young child. This should re¬ 
semble a foster home rather than 


NORTHERN ONTARIO'S FINEST RECREATIONAL AREA, FROM 
NORTH BAY TO MOOSONEE, IS SERVED BY 

ONTARIO NORTHLAND RAILWAY 

For information on desirable areas for Camps in new territory 
apply to: 

R. P. C. McLEOD, 

Traffic Manager, 

Ontario Northland Railway, 
North Bay, Ontario. 


32 


Canadian Camping 



an organized camp. Such organ* 
izations might well be called 
foster-camps. Such camps should 
have the following assets: 

(а) They should be located in 
rural settings not too far from 
the city (not in the rough north 
country). 

(2) They should limit their age 
group to children from 3 to 7 
years. 

(3) They should not take more 
than 20 children at any one time. 

(4) They should have a counsel¬ 
lor to each group of 3 children 
of four years and under, and a 
counsellor to each group of 4 
children of 5 and 6 years. 

(5) The children should not be 
in camp more than two weeks. 

(б) The director and counsellors 
should be familiar with the pre¬ 
school child and qualified in 
nursery school training. 

(7) Activities should be simple 
ones suited to the country—see¬ 
ing the farm animals, playing in 
the stream, exploring. To these 
should be added basic play 


materials: sand boxes, wagons, 
toy boats, paints, blocks, dolls, 
etc. 

(8) The director or counsellor 
- should be known to the child 

before he goes to camp. 

(9) Equipment, routines, housing 
and menus should be planned for 
the young child. 

(10) Such camps should be under 
government inspection as are 
the day nurseries and nursery 
schools.” 


The next job of the committee would 
seem to be one of discovering what 
camps for the younger child should 
be like, if they are to exist, and perhaps 
working out with the Canadian Camp¬ 
ing Association minimum standards 
which might be submitted for govern¬ 
ment approval. 

• 


These experts from whom we have 
asked opinions, make it clear that if 
young children are to go to camp, 
camps must be especially designed to 
meet the needs of the young child. It 
is also suggested that perhaps family 
camps might be a solution to the 
: problem. 


BOAT ACCESSORIES 

for every type of Water Craft 

A complete line of equipment for every marine need carried in 
our showrooms — 

SAILS - HARDWARE - ROPE - CANVAS - PAINTS - VARNISHES 
GLUES and COMPOUNDS, Etc. 

TOM TAYLOR LIMITED 

The Bert in Quality and Service 

81 Front Street East EMpire 3-8761-2 Toronto, Ontario 


Toronto, Canada, February, 1955 


33 





NATURE NOTEBOOK. 

Robert Gandy. 

While this booh was published last 
summer, it has just come to our atten¬ 
tion, and we feel it is one which every 
'director and staff member should know 
about. Mr. Candy write? simply and 
clearly about his life study arid ‘hobby: 
the. animals and insects we all Gome 
across at some time during outstay 
at camp. Like Fabre, he illustrates as 
well as writes, in such a way that 
adults can appreciate arid children 
understand. Nature Notebookis, really, 
the author’s written account of a day’s 
field 'trip with his young sori, Bill. 
They comment as they go. The lucid 
and sympathetic answers to Bill’s ques¬ 
tions stimulate ideas for camp activities, 
hobbies and outdoor crafts. Added to 
this, Mr. Candy’s illustrations, 'are 
beautiful beyond description, eftbugh 
to keep campers and staff absorbed 
for hours on end. $3.00. Thomas 
Allen, Limited, Toronto 2. ’ 


FOLK SONGS OF CANADA. 

Edith Fulton Fowke and Richard 
Johnston. 

Camp songs should be, to a great 
extent, Canadian in our camps; and a 
camp repertoire takes on new interest 
if it includes more than the everyday 
jingles and nonsense rhymes we hear 
so often. Folk Songs of Canada pre¬ 
sents a collection of distinctly Canadian 
music, chansons from Quebec, chanties 
from the Maritimes, ancient • rounds 
from the past, Western ditties ... all 
of them part of our country, a cross- 
section of our living. If our campers" 


were to learn even one of these songs 
for each week spent in camp, theirs 
would be a rich heritage. To use the 
words of Dr. Johnston: “Accept this 
book as it is meant, then: a collection 
of songs, most of which are beautiful, 
all of which are worthy of some kind 
of attention. The fact that they are 
also, in one way or another, Canadian, 
should make all Canadians proud, and 
should spark still further the interest 
of all those who want to know more 
about this fabulous country”. Bound 
Edition, $4.95; Choral Edition, 85c. 
'The Waterloo Music Company, Limi¬ 
ted, Waterloo, Ontario. 


.SWIM TO GLORY. 

. Ron- McAllister. 

Perhaps no other sports event has 
roused national interest, pride and 
r emotions to the extent that Marilyn 
Bell’s achievement did last fall. Her 
conquest seemed like a win of the 
moment at the time, but it takes a book 
like Ron McAllister’s to make us 
realize that years of patient preparation 
have gone before; and that several 
other medals, cups and conquests have 
gone unheralded and unsung in this 
girl’s young life. Swim to Glory is not 
only the story of Marilyn’s life and 
work • of the past ten years, but a 
resume of Gus Ryder’s lifetime of 
sacrifice and faith in a dream of his 
own: a swimming club where children 
of all walks of life could learn not only 
to swim but to save the lives of others 
if necessary. Mr. McAllister touches, 
as well, on the careers of George 
Young, Cliff Lumsden, Winnie Roach 
Leuszler, Florence Chadwick, the Han- 
lans, Martha Norelius, a score of other 
swimming champions, and a history of 
the development of swimming the 
world over. $2.50. McClelland and 
Stewart, Limited, Toronto 16. 

(continued on page 36) 


34 


Canadian Camping 




Xor onto, Canada* February, 1955 


35 









(continued from page 34) 

IN SUCH AN AGE. 

W. C. Lockhart, M.A., Ph.D., D.D., 
Editor. 

To combat the mood of hopelessness 
and cynicism which appears to be 
settling upon the minds and spirts of 
so many of our contemporaries, a group 
of young preachers of the Christian 
Churches in Canada have written a 
series of sermons which appear in book 
form. ”It is set forth as an expression 
of the triumphant faith of the Christian 
Church,” says the Editor, “as it is de¬ 
clared Sunday after Sunday from pul¬ 
pits in Canada. It makes no claim to 
be a complete expression of that faith, 
but it is hoped that from this repre¬ 
sentative cross-section of young preach¬ 
ers, others may get something of the 
note of certainty and hope that the 
Gospel inspires, and be strengthened.” 
From such a splendid collection of talks 
will come inspiration for Sunday devo¬ 
tional hours in camp or school. $1.49. 
McClelland and Stewart, Limited, Tor¬ 
onto 16. 

THE GOOD TRAIL. 

Bill Geagan. 

A deep philosophy of good living 
runs through the whole of Mr. Gea- 
gan’s writing. It appeared first in 
Nature I Have Loved. Now, in The 
Good Trail, he reveals his knowledge 
of God’s world and the people in it, 
as he writes of his life in the Maine 
woods. “I have tried to point out that 
only he who seeks nature eagerly and 
sincerely can know her well and be 
permitted to share in her tremendous 
treasure”, he says, as trappers and 
guides, friends and strangers, and every 
variety of furred and feathered crea¬ 
ture are woven into his story. The 
reader will not become lost in the 
woods, starve or panic, after a journey 
through these pages. He will only long 


for the open country, the snowy hills, 
the smell of woodsmoke, and friends to 
enjoy such living with him. $4.00. 
Longmans, Green and Company, Tor¬ 
onto 1. 


SOCIAL WORK PRACTICE IN 
COMMUNITY ORGANIZATION. 

Helen D. Green. 

Community living in this generation 
requires such a knowledge of the inter¬ 
group process, that continued study of 
the subject seems to be necessary. This 
is one of those books in which social 
relations in certain settings are re¬ 
viewed, case histories discussed, and 
objectives, methods and skills sug¬ 
gested. The late Professor Green has 
been active in Helds of social work in 
the YWCA and YMCA in Pittsburgh, 
The Pittsburgh Council on Inter- 
cultural Education, The Civic Unity 
Council, The American Service In¬ 
stitute, The Pittsburgh Federation of 
Social Agencies, and was a Professor at 
the University of Pittsburgh School of 
Social Work, where she pioneered in 
the study of Social Intergroup Work. 
After her death in 1952, friends and 
alumni of that University established 
the Helen D. Green Memorial Fund for 
scholarships in that same direction. 
$4.75. George McLeod, Limited, Tor¬ 
onto. 


FIFTY TREES OF CANADA. 

J. L. VanCamp and T. E. Shaw. 50c 

THE POCKET GUIDE 
TO WILDFLOWERS. 

Samuel Gottscho. 35c. '■ 

HOW TO KNOW THE BIRDS. 
Roger Tory Peterson. 50c. 


36 


Canadian Camping 


HOW TO KNOW' 

THE AMERICAN MAMMALS. 

Ivan T. Sanderson. 50c. 

The above four pocket books will 
assist camp directors and programme 
heads immensely to add variety and 
interest to their subjects. Easy on the 
budget and light to carry about, they 
are illustrated in black-and-white, with 
the exception of the Guide to Wild- 
flowers, which includes coloured photo¬ 
graphs as well. Fifty Trees of Canada 
is believed to be one of the best simple 
books on the subject, and is used 
extensively by the Canadian Girl 
Guides in their field studies. All these 
pocket books are available through the 
Book Society of Canada, Agincourt 
P.O., Ontario. 

THE MORNING WATCH, a series 
of devotional talks for campers, pre¬ 
pared by Wilbur K. Howard, and very 
good indeed. Only 5c and obtainable 
though the Ontario Council of Chris¬ 
tian Education, 150 Simcoe Street, 
Toronto 1. 

CAMP SONG BOOK. A handy 
little book with words and music to 
fifty-three songs. 25c. Order through 
Canadian Camping Association, Room 
407, 170 Bloor Street West, Toronto 5. 

* CAMP SAFETY DIGEST. Articles 
on every phase of camp safety. 50c. 
Order through Canadian Camping As- 

(continued on page 39) 


CAMPS 

BUILT 

ANYWHERE IN ONTARIO 

Let's talk it over 


HAROLD H. THOMPSON 

Building Contractor 
Gravenhurst Ontario 



Protect 


YOUR CAMPERS... 

Protect 


. . . YOURSELF 

Against 

ACCIDENTS 

and 


SICKNESS 

For full particulars of Campers 
Special Indemnity Insurance 
Contact 


LYON & HARVEY 

LIMITED 

TORONTO 

15 King St. W. - EM. 4-4277 


. .... ENJOY 

PURE, SAFE DRINKING WATER 

- STERASYL - 

SELF - STERILIZING WATER FILTERS 

EVANS and EDE Ltd. 

Office: 183 ST. CLAIR AVE. W., TORONTO (Showrooms: 990 Bay Street) 


Toronto, Canada, February, 1955 


37 


I \ -It 



CAMPOKIG ' 

You Can Order These 
\ PUBLICATIONS 


AMERICAN CAMPING 
ASSOCIATION 

343 So. Dearborn Street 
Chicago 4, III. 


“CAMP DIRECTORY”—1954 

— Over 2000 camps affiliated with the 
* 2 sr American Camping Association are listed 

alphabetically by states. 

_I “CAMPING at the MID-CENTURY”—1953 


A Census of Organized Camping . . . 
*,32 Facts and information. Number of camps 

and campers . . . types of camps . . . 
| facilities . . . trends and standards . . . 
statistical tables. 

^7| “CAMP SAFETY DIGEST”—Reprinted 1954 

Articles on Safety in all phases of the 
camp program and organization by 
leaders in the field (Mason, Sweet, Camp, 
Hammett, Jaeger, et al.) 

WRITE FOR COMPLETE LIST OF PUBLICATIONS 


38 


Canadian Camping 



(continued from page 37) 

sociation, Room 407, 170 Bloor Street 
West, Toronto 5. 

CAMPING — WHAT IS IT? A 
basic philosophy of good camping. 30c. 
Order through Canadian Camping 
Association, Room 407, 170 Bloor St. 
West, Toronto 5. 

FATIGUE—A MAJOR HEALTH 
PROBLEM. By Dr. J. H. Ebbs. Order 
through Canadian Camping Associa¬ 
tion, Room 407, 170 Bloor Street West, 
Toronto 5. 10c each. 

TWENTY TWENTY-MINUTE 
TALKS TO BOYS —V. McAdam. 
Write to 6 Weredale Park, Montreal 6, 
Quebec. 

USEFUL KNOTS AND HOW TO 
TIE THEM—Plymouth Cordage Co. 
of Canada, 750 Bay Street, Toronto 2. 

STRATEGY IN WORKING WITH 
PEOPLE. 

THE IMPERATIVE NEEDS OF 
YOUTH. 

CONSERVATION OF WILD 
LIFE. 

THE HABIT OF SAFETY. 


Write to Mr. John R. Heron, Public 
Relations Department, Royal Bank of 
Canada, Head Office, Montreal, Que¬ 
bec. 

TREES ON THE FARM- -Depart¬ 
ment of Public Relations, The Can¬ 
adian Bank of Commerce, Head Office, 
Toronto 1. 

SKILLET SKILLS FOR CAMP 
AND COTTAGE—Write to Ontario 
Camping Association, 170 Bloor Street 
West, Toronto 5. 

SPORTSMEN ACROSS CANADA 
J. V. McAree—Write to Sportsman 
Cigarettes, Rock City Tobacco Co., 
Ltd., Quebec City, Quebec. 

MY CAMP BOOK. A book of 
poems, prayers, with many blank pages 
for photographs, campers* own writ¬ 
ings, collections, autographs, and so on. 
25c. Ontario Council of Christian Edu¬ 
cation, 150 Simcoe Street, Toronto 1. 

WHEN JUNIORS GO CAMPING. 
Written primarily for leaders of church 
and other short-term camps, it contains 
sound information on Junior Camping, 
for campers who are in grades four, 

(continued next page) 


FOR CAMPING SATISFACTION 

■ - use 



PADDLES, OARS, AQUA BOARDS, AQUA SKIS, ETC. 

THE PETERBOROUGH CANOE COMPANY LTD. 

PETERBOROUGH - ONTARIO - CANADA 


Toronto, Canada , February , 1955 


39 





five and-six in day school. 80c. On¬ 
tario Council of Christian Education, 
150 Simcoe Street, Toronto 1. 

These publications are free, most 
applicable to the general work ot 
counselling, and may be obtained 
through the addresses given below: 

Reports of the Ontario Camping 
Association 1954 Directors* Seminar: 

1. TEACHING THE DIRECTOR 
TO TEACH—I. Haladner. 

2. HOW TO TEACH CAMP PHIL¬ 
OSOPHY—!. Hoyle. 

TEACHING THE COUNSEL¬ 
LOR TO UNDERSTAND BE¬ 
HAVIOUR—R. D. McDonald. 

4. TEACHING THE COUNSEL¬ 
LOR TO UNDERSTAND GROUP 
LIFE—R. W. Bundy. 

5. TEACHING COUNSELLORS 
THEIR RELATIONSHIP TO 
PROGRAMME ACTIVITIES 

B. Lowes. 

6. THE COUNSELLOR ALSO HAS 
HIS REWARD—Mrs. J. H. Ebbs. 

Write to Ontario Camping Association, 
1 70 Bloor Street West, Toronto 5. 

SELECTING A CAMP FOR 
YOUR BOY OR GIRL—W. E. Yard. 
Write to Ontario Camping Association. 
170 Bloor Street West, Toronto 5. 

SO YOU’VE BEEN ELECTED 
PUBLICITY CHAIRMAN—Write to 
Ontario Camping Association, 170 
Bloor Street West, Toronto 5. 

Do you know that the Audubon 
Society can supply excellent reproduc¬ 
tions of Canadian Mammals, Canadian 
Birds and Canadian Wildflowers, six¬ 
teen to each set? They are very colour¬ 
ful. attractive to children, suitable for 
framing, and extremely reasonable in 
price: one set of sixteen paintings, 75c. 
The three sets may be purchased at the 
present time for $2.00. Discounts on 
ten or more sets, 10%; on one hundred 
or more sets, 20%. 


40 


Canadian Camping 



OVR FRIENDS 
The Advertisers 


Beach Pool & Camp Supply Co. 30 

Camping Magazine . 38 

Canada Packers Ltd. 19 

J. J. Cash (Can.) Ltd. 23 

Continental Casualty Co. 

Outside Back Cover 

T. Eaton Co. Ltd. 3 

Evans & Ede Ltd... 37 

Foodcraft Laboratories Ltd. 23 

Gibbons Quickset Desserts 

Inside Front Cover 

S. Gumpert Co. of Can. Ltd. 24 

Hobart Manufacturing. Co. Ltd. 23 

Kert Manufacturing Co. 41 

Lewiscraft Supplies Ltd. .. 40 

Lyon & Harvey Ltd. 37 

McKague Chemical Co. Ltd. 15 

Niagara Brand Spray Co. Ltd. 35 

Ontario Northland Railway. 32 

Parents* Magazine . 42 

Peterborough Canoe Co. Ltd. 39 


Prescott Hide & Skin Co. Ltd. 26 

Redbook Magazine . 31 

Stafford Foods Ltd. 4 

Superior Propane Ltd. 30 

J. J. Taylor & Sons Ltd. 29 

Tom Taylor Co. Ltd. 33 

Harold H. Thompson . 37 

Tilleys Ltd. 19 

Vermont Accident Insurance Co. 6 

G. R. Welch Co. Ltd. 24 

Wilson & Cousins Ltd. 

Inside Back Cover 
G. H. Wood & Co. Ltd. 12 


CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING 


CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING 
RATES: 

Five cents a word, minimum two 
dollars. All classified advertising pay* 
able in advance. Address all corres¬ 
pondence to “Canadian Camping”, 
170 Bloor Street West, Toronto, 
Ontario. 


WHAT’S NEW IN '55? 




“FIFTY FIFTY" 

THE NEW MIRACLE 

MACHINE DISHWASHING COMPOUND 

PAPER GOODS 
AT CARLOAD PRICES 



A COMPLETE AND COMPREHENSIVE 

LINE OF CLEANING AND SANITARY SUPPLIES 


THE TRADE'S HIGHEST QUALITY • LOWEST PRICES 


DON'T MISS OUR BOOTH AT THE CAMP CONFERENCE 

KERT MANUFACTURING CO. LTD. 

230 King St. E., Toronto EM. 3-6277 


Toronto, Canada, February, 1955 


41 


































(continued from page 24) 
boys and girls were mixed with Belgian 
boys and girls, so a real experience of 
living with each other was provided. 
This programme has been most success¬ 
ful and the boys and girls of North 
America and Europe have been brought 
together and have learned to appreciate 
each other. 

The camping programme in Belgium 
provides by design and through careful 
planning, a wonderful oportunity for 
democratic practice and responsibility 
on the part of boys and girls and for 
real training in understanding people 
of other nations. The whole pro¬ 
gramme is carefully planned from an 



MAGAZINE 


sends more children 
to camp 

than any other magazine! 

1,625,000 mothers with over 
3,250,000 children depend on 
PARENTS' for camp selection 
guidance, look to its camp listings 
with confidence. 

More camps use PARENTS' than 
any other national magazine ... 
75% of previous year's advertisers 
renewed space in 1954! 


Only magazine with 100% 
families - with - children 
audience — natural prospects 
for camp enrollments. 

For rat#* and details write to; 
Josephine E. Chrenko, Director, 
School and Camp Dept. 

PARENTS' MAGAZINE, 52 Vanderbilt Ave., N. Y. 17 


educational point of view; and fun and 
educational development work together 
for an experience of personal growth. 

• 

(continued from page 21) 

The Point is also a great tourist 
attraction. The sandy beaches and 
shallow water provide excellent swim¬ 
ming conditions. The one hazard is 
a dangerous rip current near the tip of 
the Point where the east and west 
currents meet. However, people are 
warned by a large sign reading “No 
swimming from here to end of Point.” 

At the present time a project is in 
operation to prepare a large camp site 
with modern conveniences. For trailers 
there are fifteen posts which are com¬ 
plete with a running water tap and 
electric plug. For those pitching tents 
they are building modern kitchen and 
bathroom facilities. Next year all 
camping will be confined to this area. 
Other picnickers will use the fine stoves 
and tables already prepared. 

Even though you and I may not be 
ornithologists or naturalists, let us share 
in what Point Pelee has to offer. 

• 

EXTENSION STUDIES 
TORONTO 

At the point of going to press, we 
have heard that a new course, an 
introduction to the study of birds, is 
now in progress at the University ot 
Toronto on Wednesday evenings at 
8 p.m., Room 103, School of Nursing, 
Russell and St. George Streets, Tor¬ 
onto. In charge of the course is Mr. 
Walter Baillie, who is Research Assist¬ 
ant, Ornithology Division, Royal On¬ 
tario Museum, and is Regional Director 
of the National Audubon Society. Mr 
Baillie makes his subject live, and will 
cover identification of summer and 
autumn birds, birds of Point Pelee and 
birds of Algonquin Park, including 
coloured movies, at the remaining four 
lectures in March. Admission for each 
session is $1.25, payable at the door. 

• 



42 


Canadian Camping 







HERE'S HOW YOU . . 

a better life-saving job 


can now do 
. . by using 


THE STEPHENSON “MINUTEMAN” 


RESUSCITATOR — It Is Really Three Machines In One: 

1. RESUSCITATOR — for use when the accident victim is 
not breathing. Due to drowning, smoke, suffocation, drug poison, 
electric shock, war gas, hemmorhage, stroke, severe heart failure 
and the like. 

2. INHALATOR — for use when he can breathe but needs 
more oxygen. This is true when the patient needs more than the 
20% oxygen contained in ordinary air. A steady stream of oxygen 
is delivered into the mask where the patient can breathe it. 

3. ASPIRATOR — for use when mucus, froth (usually present 
in drowning cases) or blood clogs his air passages. It provides 
suction for removing this material from the throat into a bottle 
so that oxygen can reach the lungs 

Exclusive Distributors 

WILSON & COUSINS CO. LTD. 

Head Office 

240 BIRMINGHAM ST. - TORONTO 14 

- • Branches at 

, CALGARY , - VANCOUVER 

Air,:-, manufacturers of fire fighting equipment • 









Now is the time to arrange your 1955 

CAMPERS MEDICAL INSURANCE ! 

EXAMINE THESE LIBERAL BENEFITS: 

$1,500.00 Medical Expenses - Each Accident 
$ 350.00 Medical Expenses - Each Sickness 
$1,500.00 Medical Expenses for Polio 
$2,500.00 for Accidental Death, or Loss of two 
limbs, or sight of both eyes 
$1,875.00 for loss of arm or leg 
$1,250.00 for loss of one hand, or foot or sight 
of one eye 

Plans available for all church and organizational camps 


• You and your staff members 
may also have the protec¬ 
tion, if desired! 

• Plans that really pay the 
bills — no schedule of pay¬ 
ments! 


• Now—a new ease of hand¬ 
ling—no deposit or mini¬ 
mum premium, only one 
report! 

• Your campers are also pro¬ 
tected while travelling to 
and from camp. 


“The Most Respected Name 
in Camp Insurance” 

Continental Casualty Company . . . incorporated in 
1897 ... is a pioneer in meeting the special require¬ 
ments of individuals and organizations. 

. . . And in a continuing programme of accommodating 
consumer needs we welcome your attention to 

CAMP FEES REFUND INSURANCE 

Phone or Write - Inquiries Invited 

CONTINENTAL CASUALTY COMPANY 

SPECIAL RISKS DIVISION 

800 Bay Street 675 West Hastings Street 1510 Drummond Street 

TORONTO VANCOUVER MONTREAL 

WAInut 4-5771 TAtlow 5639 MArgueHe 5366 





