Canadian 

camping 



- PATH OF THE PADDLE - 


PUBLICATIONS pages 7,8,9. 

f 



OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 
L’ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU CANADA — PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 

SUITE 2. 1806 AVENUE ROAD • TORONTO. ONTARIO M5M 3Z1 Vol. 32 No. 5 

telephone (416) 781-471? October, 1980 


1 





member camp membre 
Canadian camping association 
association des camps du Canada 



member camp membre 
Canadian camping association 
association des camps du Canada 



member t ump number 
Canadian canifting waaciatnui 
a**** iaUnn dm ramp* da tunada 


. C.A♦ LOGO : These logos are for use with your camp promotional 

material. Just cut out and use the size you desire 
for your brochure, stationary etc. 

Please note : Your camp can only be accredited by 

your Provincial Camping Association 
and not by the C.C.A. Therefore your 
camp is a member camp of the C.C.A. 
and not an accredited member. 


* DON'T MOVE ! 

* Unless you let the C.C.A. office in Toronto know your new address. 

Beginning with this issue, Canadian Camping will be sent to all member camps 
and individual members of Provincial Camping Associations directly from the 
National Sport and Recreation Centre in Ottawa. 

The only way we can keep our computerized mailing list up-to-date is for 
everyone who receives this newsletter to let us know as soon as your moving 
plans have been completed. 

Please add the C.C.A. to the list of those you must notify: 


Canadian Camping Association 
1806 Avenue Road Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 



2 






Thought for Food 

Here are two more "camp tested" recipes to add to your file for 
next summer. 

Watch for more contributions in future issues. These economical 
ideas may help you resolve some of the problems inflation is im¬ 
posing on us in these testing times. 


Ham a la King 
100 Servings 


Beef Stroganoff 
100 Servings 






12 medium (approx. 2 lbs. green peppers 
32 diced, hard cooked eggs 
12 (4 - 4 oz. tins) pimentos 
2 gal. (8 lbs.) cooked, diced ham 
or 12 - 12 oz. tins pork 

White sauce 
2 gal. milk 

2 | cups all purpose flour 
2 j cups fat 
salt to taste 

Method 

1. Make white sauce 

2. Cook peppers 

3. Add diced ham, eggs, peppers and 
pimentos to white sauce and heat. 

4. Serve on toast. 



"Happiness is like a butterfly 
The more you chase it, 

the more it will elude you 
But if you turn your attention 
to other things 

It comes and softly sits nearby." 



25 lbs. lean stewing beef 

l£ cups margarine 

10 cups (2i lbs.) chopped onion 
5 garlic cloves (minced) 

5 tbsp. paprika 
5 cups water 

5 cans (48 oz.) Cream of Mushroom Soup 
2 qts. sour cream 

5 lbs, 10 oz. cooked broad egg noodles 

5/8 tsp. black pepper 

Method 

1. Trim and cut stewing beef into 

1 inch cubes. Saute in margarine. 

2. Stir in onion, garlic, paprika 
and pepper. 

3. Stir soup until smooth; slowly 
blend in water to make a smooth 
sauce; add to meat. 

4. Cover meat; simmer for one hour or 
until meat is tender. Stir occa¬ 
sionally. 

5. Stir a little hot sauce into sour 
cream; stir sour cream into meat 
mixture. 

DO NOT BOIL 

6 . Serve 6 oz. stroganoff or 5 cup hot 
cooked noodles. 


r 


■\ 


Maybe it's time 
you jumped 
into something 
more demanding 
than a car pool. 


V 



If your car's 
out of shape 
you get rid of it, 
right? What if 
your body's 
out of shape? _ 

4j 

paanopacrton 


A lot of people 
call life 

"The Survival of 
the Fittest". 

You know, a lot 
of people are 

rl9ht 

paRmipacnonP® 


r 




V 


Fitness: 

What it does 
for your body 
it does 

for your mind. 



1 tereOTcn.! 


tmCwdwi 




A COUNSELLOR AND C.l.T. TRAINING PROGRAM 

Planning a comprehensive and varied in-camp staff training 
program is a very desirable practice. It gives your new staff con¬ 
fidence and your old staff an opportunity to assist in presenting a 
program which will include lessons learned from previous summers 
and reminding them of the value to the campers in being in a secure 
environment. 

The following topics are designed as an outline of some of the 
essential points to be covered in any staff training program. Every 
camp has its own traditions and philosophy and should include these 
in its planning. 

Now is the time to evaluate YOUR program because you are rea¬ 
sonably fresh from your summer and can look back more objectively 
and ahead more idealistically. 

Camp History : - organization history 

- camp’s historv 

- rationale for founding 

- camp traditions 

- site: how secured and legal status 

- facility developments: past, present and future 

- program development 

- administration and policy setting procedures 

Camp Philosophy : - camp’s philosophy, goals and objectives 

- parent association philosophy 

- clientele description 

- commitment expected of campers, parents, staff 

Camper Needs and Age Group Characteristics: - age group characteristics 

- camper needs 

- first day(s) at camp 

- last day at camp 

- problem behavior 

- dealing with unique situations 

Program Skills, Sites, Facilities: - programs common to all age groups 

- use of resources: in and outside of camp 

- activities specific to site and setting 

- site and facility uses, limitations, 
uniqueness 

Camp Routines: - rules and regulations 

- emergency procedures 

- food service and meals 

- health procedures 

- duties and fatigues 

- arrivals and departures 

- mail system 

- rest period and bedtime 




r*s 




4 



Provincial Health Standards 
Camping Association Standards 
setting and maintaining personal health 
standards 

first aid procddures and as a program 
security measures 

defining and promoting the camp image: 
staff responsibilities 
off-limits areas 

What is a Camp Counsellor? - basic leadership skills: group dynamics 

- age, skill, experience standards of camp 

- communications skills, teaching skills 

- preparing for camp: hiring, job descriptions, contracts 

Programming : - who, what, when, where and why of your camp program: 

- who plans and implements the program 

- what facilities, equipment, site, and human resources are 
available 

- what season(s) do(es) your camp operate 

- what are your major program and environmental areas? 

- planning methods: 

- camper planned, staff planned, combination 

- all camp, small group 

- peer groups, family groups 

- scheduling techniques: structured, unstructured, combination 

- staff structure 

Special Groups: - specific needs of mentally, physically, emotionally handicapped 

campers 

- specific facility and site considerations 

FORMATS 

A CAMP MANUAL covering the specific details of each section will be most helpful 
for a number of reasons: 

1 ) a written reminder of details for the staff 

2 ) a method of consolidating and finalizing your thoughts 

3) a written report for future directors and boards 

The Camp Counsellors Handbook - by Blackstock and Latimer is a valuable and 
readable reference for your staff. 

THREE DAY TRAINING WEEKEND 

- the camp manual will be especially helpful for this short weekend 

- the Camp Counsellor’s Handbook, or a similar reference should be suggested or 
required reading for your staff 

- the weekend should be at your camp 

- follow the routines and lead as you wish your staff to lead your campers 

- arrival at camp 

- camp tour 

- camp rules, regulations, boundaries 

- special campfire including: 

- mixer 

- camp history and philosophy 

- introduction to camp traditions 

- job descriptions 

- introduction to camp songs, games, campfire procedures 

- quiet time and discussions (cont. on page 12) 


DAY ONE: 


r*s 



5 




music for y oun g cam pers 


Many young campers are experiencing camp for the very first 
time... everything is new to them. Music can be used as a 
very effective ’ice breaker 1 . After the younsters have grown 
accustomed to their new surroundings, music can continue to be 
an integral part of their camping days - exercises, sing songs, 
drama and activities both in their ’section 1 and with the rest 
of the camp. Through music, the children can learn about them¬ 
selves, working with others and being part of camp - an impor¬ 
tant part! Have younger campers teach ’special event day’ songs 
to the rest of the camp, and participate in all -camp concerts. 

Because they are new to camp, many of the camp songs, graces, 
chants etc. that staff and older campers take for granted, will 
be unknown to younger canpers. Counsellors should give these 
campers and ’Intensive course’ in the learning of these old favourites during the 
first few days of camp - singing them over and over, anywhere and anytime! This 
will help them to quickly feel like a part of camp and that they really belong. 




Some musical ideas for the younger folk: 

1. Action Songs - easy to teach, easy to learn 

super for getting concerted 
action 

use for waiting periods, 
energy-spending device, or 
fearful times (ie thunder¬ 
storms) - good mind occupier! 
good for co-ordination skills 
(body and speech) 


2. Songs for Activities 


young ones are more 
susceptable to inclement weather conditions - 
counsellors should have a vast supply of 
songs on hand - relate them to your particu¬ 
lar activity if you can (’sea shanties’ are a 
great help to maintain a steady stoke in 
canoeing. _ 


Painting to Music - let the kids try to 
show the rhythm of the music in their pic- 


Feet Painting - have children dance to mu¬ 
sic on paper with finger(feet?) paint - defi¬ 
nitely an activity for the more energetic 
counsellor. 

Rhythm Bands - fun to make own instruments, 
instruments can be anything, be sure to fol¬ 
low up - teach different rhythms to different 
songs, then parade through camp! 

an excellent learning experi¬ 
ence 

can expand this into a larger 
program or special event 

have a senior cabin lead the younger ones at a 


6 . Folk Songs 


SStEfif 


6 



PUBLICATIONS 


The C.C.A. Publications Service 
is happy to announce that Bill 
Mason T s new book PATH OF THE PADDLE published by Van Nostrand Reinhold 
will be available early in November. The book contains 500 black and 
white photographs and line drawings, 24 colour photographs and is 160 pp. 
in length. Hardcover only, the price is $19.95 until December 31, 1980 
and $24.95 thereafter. Order now for Christmas giving. 


WHP LLFADDLE 

An illustrated Guide to the Art of Canoeing 



BILL MASON 


"I have known Bill Mason for many years. I have paddled with him, 
traded outrageous stories with him about past canoeing expeditions, 
and listened for hours as he shared his rich experience of nature, 
of wildlife, and of rushing waters. I have seen and greatly admired 
the many award-winning films on nature, conservation and canoeing 
which he has produced for the National Film Board of Canada. This 
book is an extension of his film work into the print medium. I 
was written with the goal of sharing with others his expert knowledge 
and boundless enthusiasm for one of the most satisfying activities 
known to man." 


PIERRE ELLIOTT TRUDEAU 
from the 

FORWARD TO PATH OF THE PADDLE 


7 







PATH OF THE PADDLE - 


This fall, a new illustrated guide to the art of canoeing will 
be published in Canada .. Path of the Paddle is the culmination of 
many years work by Bill Mason. One of this country's leading canoeists 
and conservationists. Mason worked diligently to re-create in book 
form, the beauty and clarity of his marvelous Path of the Paddle Film 
Series done for the National Film Board of Canada in 1978. It will 
no doubt become the ultimate book for the canoeist of every level of 
ability. 

The book covers all key areas of canoeing, equipment, basic and 
advanced paddling techniques, white water canoeing, how to read 
various water conditions, anticipating and avoiding serious problems, 
safety measures, wilderness camping and much more. But the book 
is far from a standard dry textbook on canoeing. Using over 5>00 
illustrations, including drawings, black and white and brilliant 
colour photographs. Bill Mason has captured the rough elegance of 
canoeing. The book's photography makes you feel as if you are there 
in the bow seat, white water frothing about you, or sitting quietly 
on the edge of a familiar lake, mist steaming all around. Mason 

combines practical information with his own personal experiences of 
canoeing North America's most exciting wilderness rivers to create 
a lively text that will appeal to both the dedicated individual and 
the family canoeist. 




r*\ 




8 




Bill Mason is a man of disarming small stature* so much so that 
when I first met him I couldn’t believe it was the same man I had 
seen so gracefully master the skills of canoeing in his films. Living 
in the Gatineau Hills near Ottawa with his wife and two children* 

Bill continues to work for the National Pllm Board in Ottawa. He 
is best known for his works Cry to the Wild and Paddle to Sea , and 
for the Path of the Paddle series* four films on canoeing that have 
been acclaimed for their instructional value and beauty. These 
four films have become the most popular films ever produced by the 
NFB and are available accross Canada from any library that has NFB 
films. He is hoping to complete another canoeing film late in the 
new year or spring of 1982. Mason is no stranger to resident 
camping in Canada having learned a great deal about the art of 
canoeing at Pioneer Camp in Manitoba while on staff there. This* 
combined with an incredible 20 years of experience canoeing in this 
country* allows every reader an opportunity to learn more about an 
activity which is so traditionally "Canadian”. 

Pictures from the book have been supplied by Van Nostrand Reinhold. 





The COUNSE LLOR'S P ag e 

COUNSELLOR EXCHANGE PROGRAM 


What better way to develop an understanding of 
the great variety of camping experiences and to 
expand the horizons of the young people with 
whom we work? How often is camp manpower lost 
simply because kids tire of repeating the same 
or similar experiences. Staff could be motivated to continue in the camping field 
if offered the exciting opportunity of a new camp experience in a different part 
of the country. 

What a benefit to the camps, too, if fresh ideas are brought with the counsellors. 
Could the new programs suggested by exchange counsellors help us rejuvenate a 
stalling camp program? Campers and other staff would be enriched by the inter¬ 
action with these new staff. And when they return home - the new ideas and the 

enthusiasm they 1 11 bring 
back to our programs. 


Good camp counsellors are a precious commodity 
on today’s camping market. Do we, as camp owners 
and directors have an obligation to provide for 
their development, as well as the development of 
our facility and our campers? The Leadership 
Training Committee of C.C.A. feels that an ex¬ 
cellent means of providing a growing experience 
for counsellors would be through an exchange be¬ 
tween camps. 


Lastly, let’s not forget 
the benefit of a counsellor 
exchange, to camping in 
general, and to this great 
country of ours. An ex¬ 
change of experienced, com¬ 
mitted young people through¬ 
out the many camps across 
Canada would do much to pro- 


10 



mote regional and cultural understanding. 


The Leadership Training Committee is interested 
in promoting a camp counsellor exchange. If 
you would be interested in participating, please 
contact. 

Bev. Bullock 
877 Seneca Place 
Kamloops, B.C. V2B 6S3 






lii 


FAITH IS THE VICTORY 


It is my profound conviction that this universe of 
ours, vaster than our wildest dreams, more complex than 
the most complicated machinery that ever could be devised 
by the mind of man, is a universe of law and of purpose. 

I am sure that in all ages and in all countries those who 
have achieved greatly for their fellows have somehow or 
another sensed this fact - even though they haven 1 1 always 
agreed on the name. 

Work, play love and worship are held together by the 
cement of faith. Work without faith is drudgery. Play 
without faith is frivolity. Love without faith is senti¬ 
mentality. Worship without faith is hypocrisy. 

As you go out from camp don't let the cynics and 
the hard boiled realists tell you that the age of man's 
glory is over, that the period of his accomplishment is 
finished. Let your faith be a burning torch. Let your 
faith be and over-mastering passion, and over-powering 
ideal. Only for those who greatly belive and who greatly 
venture can great dreams come true. 

From a Sunday Evening Talk by Joseph McCulley 



11 



A COUNSELLOR AND C.l.T. TRAINING PROGRAM 


(cont. from page 5) 

Breakfast 

- meal time procedures 
Morning Sessions 

1. Introduction to your camp and how it operates 

- review camp philosophy 

- camp routines 

- health and safety procedures 
2• Activity session 

Lunch 

Afternoon Sessions 

1. Camper needs and age group characteristics 

2. Special groups 

3. Activity sessions (set up shelters if camping out) 

Supper: arrange to have a cookout 

Evening Sessions 

1. Basic leadership skills 

2. Quiet time/ campfire 

Morning Sessions 

1. Camp programming 

2. Public Relations 
3* Activity sessions 

Afternoon Session 

1. Continue basic leadership skills 

2. Activity session 

3. Pack up and head home 


music for y oun g campers 

(cont. from page 6 ) 

7. Classical Concerts - younger campers CAN get involved 

- many songs by the ’masters' are available for youn¬ 
ger children. 

8. Some Suggestions for Leading 

a) echo songs, or songs that build are good 

b) teach slowly, break up the song into very small parts 

c) speak clearly, look at each child individually 

d) if teaching a new song, follow-up by repeating it often 

e) be careful of choosing songs - decide what mood you want to create. 

f) There is nothing like a singsong to bring a rowdy group of young¬ 
sters down to earth! 

by Christine Nixon 
Camp Oconto 


DAY TWO: 


DAY THREE: 


^\ 


r\ 


r*\ 


12 




PUBLICATIONS 



THE BOOK OF WINDSURING 

Mike Gadd, John Boothroyd, Ann Durrell 

This lavishly illustrated guide to free- 
sailing techniques has been written by a 
team of Canadian experts and provides 
complete information on the sport for both 
novice and accomplished free sailor. 

$ 9.95 paperback 


The Canadian Camping Publications Service is happy to announce 
that this year for the first time we are in a position to offer 
both a beautiful 1981 Calendar and/or a 1981 Appointment Book, 
the latter is available in either French or English. These are 
available for a limited time only, so order now for your own use 
or for gifts. Only prepaid orders will be accepted, please or¬ 
der by December 1, 1980. 



Canadian Nature 198 


CANADIAN WILDFLOWERS 1981 

This popular appintment book contains 
53 beautiful full page colour photo¬ 
graphs of Canadian wildflowers. It is 
packages in an attractive five colour 
presentation box. $ 6.95 

FLEURS SAUVAGES DU CANADA 1981 

For the first time we are offering the 
popular CANADIAN WILDFLOWERS 1981 in a 
French edition. The appointment book 
contains the same 53 colour photographs 
as the English edition and is packaged 
in a five colour presentation box $ 6.95 

Please specify either French or English 


CANADIAN NATURE 1981 

Twelve full-colour photographs of ani- 
mails, birds, wildflowers and landscapes 
by leading nature photographers are fea¬ 
tured in this popular wall calendar. It 
has write in space for each day and in¬ 
cludes an introductory essay and artwork 
by a leading naturalist and nature artist 
CANADIAN NATURE 1981 is packaged in a two 
colour corrugated self-mailer. $ 5.95 



13 





trip menu planning and nutrition 


Careful planning of your menus can add greatly to the 
pleasure of your trip. Some important considerations when 
planning a menu for a canoe trip are: nutrition, cost, 
weight, type of food, taste and appeal, length and route 
of the trip and expected temperature (warm or cold). 


If it is cold or wet one will want more soup and also 
more fat in the diet. One wants to remain healthy so 
must have a well balanced diet consisting of the proper 
balance of carbohydrates, fats and proteins, but also in 
eluding the proper vitamins and minerals 

Fat Carbohydrate Protein 


Mr £ ' } 111 Recommended 30S 60% 10% 

balanced diet 

Average North 40-45% 40% 15-20% 

Wgggtmm American diet 

Recommended diet 

for training athlete 40% 45% 15% 

See Canada’s Food Guide for food groups to get the proper vitamins and minerals. 
Calcium, vitamin C and thiamin are often lacking in one’s diet. 

Carbohydrates are easily digested and are therefore used for quick energy. Proteins 
are used to build and repair body tissues. Fats are stored in our body and are the 
only sizable reserve supply of food energy. 

Cost and weight seem to be in reverse proportion. Freeze dried food and dehydrated 
are the most expensive but the lightest in weight. One is limited to ithe amount 
of fresh food one can take on a trip and one wants to limit the number of cans as 
they tend to be bulky and heavy. Any cans taken into the wilderness should be burned 
crushed and carried out again. __ 

Sugar should be cut down drastically because 

it adds weight but contains no nutrients. r k m ? f La 

Make your menu appealing by using a combination ■ I mr |fl 

of fresh food, freeze dried, dehydrated, and 
other alternatives. Use lots of spices. 

The other alternatives are grains, legumes and 

pasta. Since these foods are not complete pro- 4 % \ ; M 

teins in themselves, they must be used in com- ** | m ^ \ 

binations at each meal in order to get a well 

balanced diet. These combinations are as fol- | . V v 

(b) grains and milk products f 

(c) seeds (sesame, sunflower) plus legumes 


For more nutritious meals use a mixture of flour 
other than white.... whole wheat, rye, graham or 
soy. One may also use corn meal, wheat germ and bran 


Use brown rice to replace some 
(cont. on page 16) 


14 





Dispose of camp food 
lr service problems with 

royal Chinet 

disposable plates and bowls 

Strong, attractive Royal CHINET food service products help you ... 

• DISPOSE OF DISHWASHING COSTS 

Cut the expense of installing, maintaining and manning equipment 
that is used only a few months of the year. 

• DISPOSE OF BREAKAGE 

Save yourself the trouble and expense of buying matching replace¬ 
ments for pieces that crack, chip and shatter. 

• DISPOSE OF FOOD WASTE 

You get exact portion control with Royal CHINET’s wide range of 
sizes in regular and compartmented designs. 

• DISPOSE OF GERM COLLECTORS 

Royal CHINET products are sterilized when manufactured and 
packaged. And there’s never a germ-collecting chip, crack or 
poorly washed dish. 

• DISPOSE OF IRRITATING NOISE 

Dispofiable service is silent service. Meals are relaxed without the 
clatter and crash of china or metal. 

ENVIRONMENTAL ADVANTAGES, TOO 

All good campers want to protect the environment. Royal CHINET prod¬ 
ucts are manufactured from a renewable resource. What’s more, they’re 
biodegradable ... molded of natural wood fibres that burn readily with 
little smoke. Even if discarded out-of-doors, Royal CHINET quickly de¬ 
composes in the earth. 

Get the full particulars now. Mail this coupon today. 



15 











trip menu planning 


(cont. from page 14) 

of the white. Also use soy 
grits or flakes, nuts and 
seeds in your recipes. Spend 
time in the evenings baking 
for the next day’s lunch, try 
various bread recipes. 

One can experiement and get 
many interesting and nutri¬ 
tious combinations. Meal 
time should be a highlight, 
a happy, social time, not 
an ordeal. 

by Carol Hodgins 

Camp Wanapitei 


PRINTED NAME TAPES 


YOUR NAME IN BLOCK LETTERS 


Avoid clothing mix-ups 
and losses. Use colour-fast 
Identifab Name Tapes on 
clothing, sheets, blankets, 
towels, etc. To order simply 
fill-out order form below and 
mail . . . 

(Delivery one week approximately) No phone orders — No C.O.D. please) 


AVAILABLE IN 
RED. BLACK AND BLUE 

PRICES 


50 

$ 4.00 

100 

$ 4.50 

150 

$ 5.75 

No C.O. 

D. please) 


I 


IDENTIFAB LABELS REG’D 

P.O. BOX 2308, DORVAL, QUEBEC H9S 3H0 


PLEASE SENO ME . 


PRICE _ 


_ COLOUR . 

ENCLOSED IS CHEQUE OR MONEY ORDER IN THE AMOUNT OF S _ 
AND MADE PAYABLE TO IDENTIFAB LABELS REG’D 

NAME _—- 

ADDRESS -—- 

CITY_ 


PROV 


POSTAL CODE. 




PRINT NAME HERE 

(ONE LINE ONLY) 


3 


USE PLAIN PAPER FOR ADDITIONAL ORDERS 


6TTE-800 NSSI 


IZE WSW 01 d VINO 'OiNOdOl 
OVOd 3HN3AV 9081 'Z 31inS 



npouo.) np sdtaixi s.op uopopossn 
uoijoijossd Sujdiuox unipnuox 







