
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION 
OF THE CANADIAN 
CAMPING ASSOCIATION 


L'ASSOC I ATI ON DES 
CAMPS DU CANADA - 
PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 










Letters to the Editor 


Dear Canadian Camping: 

I have just read the Spring issue of 
CANADIAN CAMPING and am once again 
impressed by the quality of the articles. Keep 
it up! I truly enjoy putting “feet up” and 
reading it. 

One comment on the Group Dynamics 
Exercise in that issue - Is the response to 
number 23 “an inmate of a mental hospital” 
really the kind of thing we wish to be 
reinforcing? I recognize that it’s only one of a 
series in a “game” but mental illness is so 
much a part of our lives today that I feel it’s 
time we began educating positively about 
this area and not reinforcing the 
stereo-typical response o 1 “nut”, “crazy”, 
“loony”, etc. Just as man> of our campers 
come from single parent homes, I expect 
many also have family members who have 
been or are in health care facilities for 
treatment of mental disorders. Let’s be 
sensitive and educate positively in this area. 

Perhaps a small point but certainly a bigger 
issue. 

Joan Lowden 
Ottawa, Ontario 

What an oversight on our part! I’ve used that 
exercise over fifty times and never realized 
the blatant and pejorative stereotyping 
inherent in the word “nut”. Labels are very 
significant and often serve as “distancing 
phenomena”; that is, people are inhibited 
from getting beyond the label and seeing 
anything else as significant about a person. 
Nowhere is this more apparent than in the 
area of mental health; perhaps we know so 
little and fear so much: what is insanity? Is it 
contagious? What is mental illness: a label 


or an actual sickness? Why do three 
psychiatrists swear under oath that the 
accused is insane and three more 
psychiatrists swear that the accused is 
sane? No wonder there is confusion among 
lay people when the psychiatric profession 
cannot agree among themselves as to what 
constitutes mental health! 

Thank you for writing. 


I was impressed with the editorial in your last 
issue but I kept thinking about Karen 
Carpenter and anorexia nervosa. Could you 
please explain a little more about that 
disorder? 

Christine Tymburski 
Toronto, Ontario 

It’s a relatively recent psycho-somatic 
disorder in which a person does not want to 
eat, chooses not to eat and ultimately cannot 
eat. The mind (psyche) is in total control of 
the body (soma), hence psycho-somatic. It 
usually commences with a desire to lose 
weight and eventually this desire becomes 
an obsession where all thoughts, actions, 
fantasies, dreams and conversations are 
food-oriented; in short, the whole personality 
structure is affected, not just an eating 
problem. Most anorexics are female (over 
90%) and under 25 years of age; roughly 75% 
of anorexics die, making it the highest 
mortality rate among all psychiatric 
disorders. It is also a disease which occurs 
almost exclusively among upper-middle and 
upper classes; a Great Britain survey 
recently indicated that one girl in every 3,000 
from public school population was anorexic, 
whereas one girl in every 200 from private 


school was anorexic. No other disease 
known is so gender-specific; why women? 
According to Anne Fadiman “... social 
pressures, with the primary culprit being 
female weight obsession with increasingly 
thin models, actresses and ballet dancers 
over the last 20 years, culminating in the 
current curveless aesthetic of childhood. A 
pubescent girl, observing the burgeoning 
changes in her body, might fear that she was 
receding further and further away from her 
culture's physical ideal, whereas a boy who 
was equally attentive to social messages 
would be pleased at his increasing 
masculinity and, if he was the compulsive 
sort, would more likely opt for body building 
than for weight reduction” The adjectives 
used to describe anorexics or potential 
anorexics are: perfectionistic, meek, 
overachievers, polite, compliant, rarely 
angry, selfish or loud. One would think we 
were describing our best attributes in our 
female campers at camp! It seems to be no 
accident that anorexia appears either just 
after puberty or just before entrance into 
college. Both represent significant periods of 
time when the prospect of growing up might 
seem especially frightening psychologically; 
it's an effective way of halting further 
development and turning back the clock. 
Starvation stops the production of estrogen; 
no menstruation and no development, 
reducing the body to a 10 year old level 
biologically. It is intersting to note that 
anorexia nervosa is unheard of in Third 
World countries; people who may be forced 
to starve are unlikely candidates to practice 
starvation by choice! If symptoms should 
occur, seek medical intervention 
immediately; it's not something to hope will 
go away or to consider as just a passing fad. 
It's serious! 


CONTENTS 

SUMMER 1983 


VOL. 35, NO. 2 

5 National Camping Day 

by Mamie Ellis 

11 

AEC: A Major Qualification for Aquatic Emergencies 
by The Royal Life Saving Society Canada 

6 The Camping Advisor 
by Jay Haddad 

12 

Loons 

by Pam Robins 

8 Group Dynamics Exercise 
by Jaddad 

16 

International Yough Year Logo Contest/ 

Concours du Sigle I’Annee international de la jeunesse 


10 Camper Motivation SPECIAL INSERT: 1982 ANNUAL REPORT 

by Diane Blair 


Cover Photo: Jay Haddad Illustrations: Beth Moon 

Ontario Camp Leadership Centre 


This Association gratefully acknowledges ■ Government of Canada Gouvernement du Canada 

the financial support of I Fitness and Amateur Sport Condition physique et Sport amateur 


2 











EDITORIAL 

How Can You Buy or Sail tha Sky? 

This is a speech made in 1851 by Seattle, Chief of the Suquamish, in response to a treaty proposal under which the Indians would sell two million 
acres of land for $150,000. Buckminster Fuller calls it “one of the most beautiful and profound environmental statements ever made". 


How can you buy or sell the sky, the warmth of the land? The idea is 
strange to us. 

If we do not own the freshness of the air and the sparkle of the water, 
how can you buy them? 

Every part of this earth is sacred to my people. Every shining pine 
needle, every sandy shore, every mist in the dark woods, every clearing 
and humming insect Is holy in the memory and experience of my 
people. The sap which courses through the trees carries the memories 
of the red man. 

The white man’s dead forget the country of their birth when they go 
to walk among the stars. Our dead never forget this beautiful earth, for 
it is the mother of the red man. We are part of the earth and it is part of 
us. The perfumed flowers are our sisters; the deer, the horse, the great 
eagle, these are our brothers. 

The rocky crests, the juices in the meadows, the body heat of the 
pony, and man - all belong to the same family. 

So, when the Great Chief in Washington sends word that he wishes 
to buy our land, he asks much of us. The Great Chief sends word he will 
reserve us a place so that we can live comfortably to ourselves. He will 
be our father and we will be his children. 

So we will consider your offer to buy our land. But it will not be easy. 
For this land is sacred to us. This shining water that moves in the 
streams and rivers is not just water but the blood of our ancestors. If we 
sell you land, you must remember that it is sacred, and you must teach 
your children that it is sacred and that each ghostly reflection in the 
clear water of the lakes tells of events and memories in the life of my 
people. The water’s murmur is the voice of my father’s father. 

The rivers are our brothers; they quench our thirst. The rivers carry 
our canoes, and feed our children. If we sell you our land, you must 
remember, and teach your children, that the rivers are our brothers and 
yours, and you must henceforth give the rivers the kindness you would 
give any brother. 

We know that the white man does not understand our ways. One 
portion of land is the same to him as the next, for he is a stranger who 
comes in the night and takes from the land whatever he needs. The 
earth is not his brother, but his enemy, and when he has conquered it, 
he moves on. He leaves his father’s grave behind, and he does not care. 
His father’s grave and his children’s birthright are forgotten. He treats 
his mother, the earth, and his brother, the sky, as things to be bought, 
plundered, sold like sheep or bright beads. His appetite will devour the 
earth and leave behind only a desert. 

I do not know. Our ways are different from your ways. The sight of 
your cities pains the eyes of the red man. There is no quiet place in the 
white man’s cities. Noplace to hear the unfurling of leaves in spring or 


the rustle of the insect’s wings. The clatter only seems to insult the 
ears. And what is there to life if a man cannot hear the lonely cry of the 
whippoorwill or the arguments of the frogs around the pond at night? I 
am a red man and do not understand. The Indian prefers the soft sound 
of the wind itself, cleansed by a midday rain, or scented with pion pine. 

The air is precious to the red man for all things share the same 
breath. The white man does not seem to notice the air he breathes. Like 
a man dying for many days he is numb to the stench. But if we sell you 
our land, you must remember that the air is precious to us, that the air 
shares its spirit with all the life it supports. 

The wind that gave our grandfather his first breath also receives his 
last sigh. And if we sell you our land, you must keep it apart and sacred 
as a place where even the white man can go to taste the wind that is 
sweetened by the meadow’s flowers. 

You must teach your children that the ground beneath their feet is 
the ashes of our grandfathers. So that they will respect the land, tell 
your children that the earth is rich with the lives of our kin. Teach your 
children that we have taught our children that the earth is our mother. 
Whatever befalls the earth befalls the sons of the earth. If men spit 
upon the ground, they spit upon themselves. 

This we know: the earth does not belong to man; man belongs to the 
earth. All things are connected. We may be brothers after all. We shall 
see. One thing we know which the white man may one day discover: 
our God is the same God. 

You may think now that you own Him as you wish to own bur land; but 
you cannot. He is the God of man, and his compassion is equal for the 
red man and the white. This earth is precious to Him; and to harm the 
earth is to heap contempt on its creator. The whites too shall pass; 
perhaps sooner than all other tribes. Contaminate your bed and you 
will one night suffocate in your own waste. 

But in your perishing you will shine brightly fired by the strength of 
the God who brought you to this land and for some special purpose 
gave you dominion over this land and over the red man. 

That destiny is a mystery to us, for we do not understand when the 
buffalo are slaughtered, the wild horses are tame, the secret corners of 
the forest heavy with scent of many men and the view of the ripe hills 
blotted by talking wires. 

Where is the thicket? Gone. Where is the eagle? Gone. 

The end of living and the beginning of survival. 

The material is reprinted with permission from CRITICAL PATH by 
Buckminster Fuller, St. Martin's Press Inc., New York: Copyright ° 1981 
by R. Buckminster; Dr. Glenn T. Olds at Alaska’s Future Frontiers 
Conference 1979. 


Editorial Policy 

Jay Haddad, Editor 

The ideas expressed in the Editorial are 
those of the Editorial Committee and not 
necessarily those of the Canadian Camp¬ 
ing Association/Association des Camps 
du Canada. The views are expressed to 
provide stimulation and comment. We in¬ 
vite you to respond in "Letters to the 
Editor" to Canadian Camping, 1806 
Avenue Road, Suite 2, Toronto, Ontario 
M5M 3Z1. 


Editorial Office is located at the CCA/ACC 
Office, 1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, Toronto, 

Ontario M5M 3Z1. 

Canadian Camping is an official publication of the Canadian Camping Association/Association des 
Camps du Canada. Canadian Camping (ISSN 008-3119) is published quarterly. CCA /ACC member¬ 
ship includes a subscription; non-member subscriptions in Canada $6.00 a year or $15.00 - 3 years. 
Send address changes to CCA/ACC, 1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1. 
Material in Canadian Camping may not be reproduced in any form, without written permission of the 
editor. Copyright 1983 Canadian Camping Association/Association des Camps du Canada. 


3 


EDITORIAL 


Comment pouvez-vous acheter oa vendre le ciel? 

Discours prononce en 1851 par Seattle, chef des Suquamish, en reponse a une proposition de traite aux termes duquel les Indiens devraient vendre 
deux millions d'acres de terre pour 150,000$. Buckminster Fuller a dit que c’dtait ‘Tune des declarations les plus profonds jamais faite sur 
Fenvironnement ” 


Comment pouvez-vous acheter ou vendre le ciel, la chaleur de la terre? 
L’idee nous parait etrange. 

Si la fraicheur de I’air et le miroitement de I’eau ne nous appartien- 
nent pas, comment pouvez-vous les acheter? 

Pour mon peuple, chacune des parties de la terre est sainte: les 
aiguilles de pin scintillantes, les rivages sablonneux, la brume dans les 
bois sombres, les clairi&res, les insectes bourdonnants; elles sont 
consacr6es dans la m^moire et la vie de mon peuple. La seve qui court 
dans les arbres porte les souvenirs des Peaux-Rouges. 

Les morts de I’homne blanc oublient le pays ou ils sont n6s 
lorsqu’ils partent dans les 6toiles. Nos morts n’oublient jamais cette 
terre magnifique, car elle est la mere du Peau-Rouge. Nous sommes 
une partie de la terre et elle est une partie de nous. Les fleurs parfu- 
mees sont nos soeurs; le daim, le cheval, le grand aigle sont nos fr6res. 

Tous appartiennent & la meme famille: les cretes rocheuses, la s6ve 
des plantes dans les pr6s, la chaleur int6rieure du poney et I’homme. 

Ainsi, lorsque le Grand Chef a Washington nous fait dire qu’il 
souhaite acheter notre tere, il nous en demande beaucoup. Le Grand 
Chef nous fait dire qu’il nous r^servera une place pour que nous 
puissions vivre confortablement. II sera notre pere et nous serons ses 
enfants. 

Nous allons done considerer votre offre d’achat de notre terre; mais 
ce ne sera pas facile. Car cette terre est sacree pour nous. Cette eau 
miroitante des cours d’eau et des rivieres n’est pas simplement de I’eau, 
e’est le sang de nos ancestres. Si nous vous vendons la terre, vous 
devez vous souvenir qu’elle est sacree, que chacune des ombres ref 16- 
chies dans I’eau claire des lacs vous racontent la vie et les souvenirs de 
mon peuple. Le murmure de I’eau e’est la voix du pere de mon p£re. 

Les rivieres sont nos soeurs; elles 6tanchent notre soif. Les rivieres 
portent nos canots et nourrissent nos enfants. Si nous vous vendons 
notre terre, vous devez vous souvenir que les rivieres sont nos soeurs, 
les votres aussi, et I’enseigner k vos enfants. Vous devez done leur 
manifester la gentillesse dont vous feriez preuve envers votre frere. 

Nous savons que I’homme blanc ne comprend pas notre fagon de 
penser. Pour lui, une parcelle de terre ressemble a la parcelle voisine, 
car e’est un stranger qui vient, la nuit tombee, tirer de la terre ce dont il a 
besoin. La terre n’est pas sa soeur mais son ennemie; et lorsqu’il I’a 
conquise, il s’en va plus loin. II abandonne la tombe de son pere et ne 
s’en soucie plus. II oublie la tombe de son pere et le patrimoine de ses 
enfants. II considere la terre sa mere et le ciel son frere comme des 
choses que Ton peut acheter, depouiller, vendre comme des moutons 
ou des perles brillantes. Son appetit lui fera devorer la terre et il ne 
laissera derri^re lui qu’un desert. 

Je ne sais pas. Nos voies ne sont pas vos voies. La vue de vos villes 
afflige le Peau-Rouge. II n’y a pas d’endroit tranquille dans les villes de 
I’homme blanc. Aucun lieu pour entendre s’ouvrir les feuilles au prin- 
temps ou bruire les ailes des insectes. Le fracas ne fait qu’insulter 
I’oreille. Que signifie la vie si I’homme ne peut oui'r le cri solitaire de 
I’engoulevent ou les debats des grenouilles au bord de I’etang, & la 
brunante? Je suis Peau-Rouge et je ne comprends pas. Les Indiens 
preferent le calme bruit du vent, purifi6 par la pluie meridienne ou 
parfumede pin. 

L’air est pr^cieux pour le Peau-Rouge, car tout partage la meme 
respiration. L’homme blanc ne semble pas remarquer I’air qu’il respire. 
Comme un homme qui se meurt depuis de longs jours, il est insensible 
a I’odeur de la pourriture. Mais si nous vous vendons notre terre, vous 
devez vous souvenir que I’air nous est precieux, qu’il partage son esprit 
avec toute la vie qu’il anime. 


Le vent qui a communique & notre grand-p£re son premier souffle a 
aussi regu son dernier soupir. Et si nous vous vendons notre terre, vous 
devez la preserver, en faire un lieu consacr£ ou meme I’homme blanc 
pourra aller savourer le vent qu’adoucit les fleurs des champs. 

Vous devez apprendre a vos enfants que le sol qu’ils foulent est fait 
des cendres de nos ancetres. Afin qu’ils respectent la terre, aites a vos 
enfants qu’elle est enrichie des vies de nos parents. Dites-leur que nos 
enfants ont appris ci reconnaltre la terre comme notre m6re. Ce qui 
atteint la terre atteint aussi les fils de la terre. Si les hommes crachent 
sur la sol, ils crachent sur eux-memes. 

Nous savons ceci: la terre n’appartient pas & I’homme; I’homme 
appartient a la terre. Tout est Ii6. Nous sommes peut-etre fr6res aprds 
tout. Nous verrons. Une chose que nous savons et que I’homme blanc 
d^couvrira peut-etre un jour: nous avons le meme Dieu. 

Vous pensez peut-etre actuellement que vous Le poss^dez comme 
vous souhaitez posseder notre terre; mais vous ne le pouvez pas. II est 
le Dieu de I’homme; il 6preuve la meme pitie pour le Peau-Rouge et pour 
I’homme blanc. Cette terre Lui est precieuse. Blesser la terre e’est 
outrager son cr^ateur. Les Blancs aussi passeront; peut-etre plus tot 
que toutes les autres tribus. Souillez votre lit et vous etoufferez une nuit 
dans votre propre fange. 

Mais en perissant, vous brillerez, embrases par la force du Dieu qui 
vous a amenes sur cette terre et qui, dans un dessein impenetrable, 
vous a donne de dominer cette terre et le Peau-Rouge. 

Cette destinee est pour nous un mystere, car nous ne comprenons 
pas les buffles abattus, les cheveux sauvages apprivoises, les coins 
secrets de la foret lourds de I’odeur de tant d’hommes, et les flancs 
fertiles des collines depares par les fils telegraphiques. 

Ou est le bosquet? II a disparu. L’aigle? Envole. 

La fin des vivants et le debut de la survivance. 


Ce texte a ete rdimprime avec I’autorisation de CRITICAL PATH, de 
Buckminster Fuller, St. Martin's Press Inc., New York. Droits reserves 
1981 par R. Buckminster. Dr Glenn T. Olds lors de la conference 
Alaska’s Future Frontiers en 1979. 



Glen Bernard Camp 


NfiTIONfiL CfiMPINQ DRY! 



.. Senator Ray Perrault greeted CCA/ACC Re- 
presetatives and two camp counsellors pre¬ 
sented him with a Special T-Shirt. 


News Flash... 

Calgary Herald did a feature article on Youth 
Camping... 

Winnipeg radio stations used a radio message 
on camping prepared by Terry Burkhalter as a 
public service... 

Kitchener-Waterloo Record gave full page cov¬ 
erage to camping in their next Lifestyle Sec¬ 
tion ... 

Over 600 weekly papers received information 
on National Camping Day and sample articles 


Quebec coordinated their annual ‘‘Semaine 
des camps” or camp week to coincide with 
April 14th and featured a media blitz... 

New Brunswick Premier Richard Hatfield de¬ 
clared Camp Week for the province ... NBCA 
gave 15 radio and TV interviews and all the 
major newspapers in Fredericton, Moncton 
and Saint John had articles... 


Private schools across the country received 
information on NCD ... One girls’ school 
planned a ‘grub day’ so students could wear 
their Camp T-Shirts ... Lunch was hotdogs 
and a sing-song program! 


The next NATIONAL CAMPING DAY is March 
21 st, 1984! 

Be sure to send a reminder home from camp 
with your campers this summer. 



Nova Scotia’s Minister, Fisher Hudson, de¬ 
clared April 14 as Camp Counsellor Acknowl¬ 
edgement Day... 


5 



THE CAMPING ADVISOR 


I am a counsellor this year for the first time and I 
am quite nervous about disciplining or control¬ 
ling a group of campers on my very own. Last 
year, I was a C.l.T. and my counsellor and I had a 
tent group of 12 year-olds - it was impossible to 
control them! Whenever my counsellor threat¬ 
ened them with punishment, they would just 
laugh and she (the counsellor) would back down 
on her threats. The campers were never quiet at 
night and they wre disorderly at the dinner ta¬ 
ble; often, they would take food and not finish it 
and my counsellor could not control this situa¬ 
tion. Is there a trick to learning discipline tech¬ 
niques? 

J.D., Ottawa, Ontario 

Indeed there are tricks and the main ones 
consist of “communicating very clearly” and 
“meaning what you say Always start with 
the premise that your “rules” or guidelines 
are going to be challenged - it doesn 7 matter 
if you are a Director or counsellor or 
counsellor-in-training - so be prepared for 
what YOUR strategy will be when you are put 
to the test. Never say “be quiet or else . .”, 
“eat everything on your plate or else .. 
such threats are meaningless and the 
campers know this better than you. Indicate 
in a nice but firm way that you are concerned 
about waste food or nutrition and health or 
whatever and explain why; then ask very 
nicely if they would only take a small portion 
at first or that they at least try everything on 
their plate. If they don't finish, explain what 
the consequences WILL BE and make sure (a) 
you know what they are, (b) they make sense 
and (c) you're able to carry them out. For ex¬ 
ample, not being allowed to have dessert is a 
logical punishment for wasting food by leav¬ 
ing a lot on one’s plate; however, if you said 
“eat everything on your plate or you can’t go 
swimming for two days”, your camper will 
likely complain to the Section Head or Direc¬ 
tor and you will be overruled and your author¬ 
ity will be somewhat undermined. Similarly, if 
your tent group if noisy at night, talk to your 
girls about respecting other people's rights to 
quiet time in your own tent as well as in the 
neighbouring area. Explain calmly that if 
there is any more talking, your group will go to 
bed an hour earlier the next night and this 
routine will continue until they have learned 
to respect the bedtime hour as a quiet time for 
everyone. And then you must do it, if neces¬ 
sary! Such phrases like “Linda, I've had it 
with you”or “Theresa, shut-up "or “this whole 
group better be quiet or else” are meaning¬ 
less phrases and just set you up to lose that 
control you were talking about. I would sug¬ 
gest that you ask your Section Head or Direc¬ 
tor to have a session on “disciplining” where 
you can act out viable ways to deal with the 
ongoing problems we all face in leading 
young people - particularly at camp where 
energy levels are high and living quarters are 


Remember this, though: you have your 
campers’ respect when they arrive; you can 
only lose it by putting yourself in a compro¬ 
mising or no-win situation. I hope you don't let 
it happen! Good luck this summer, thank you 
for writing and never be afraid to ask for help. 


At the International Camping Congress many of 
us Directors became embroiled in a discussion/ 
debate as to whether we were within our juris¬ 
diction to “spank” a camper or to sanction such 
an action by one of our Staff members, if we felt 
it was appropriate and deserving. I was in the 
minority, but several of us felt that children grow 
up with too much leniency today and that a good 
spanking is often a way of letting a child know 
you care about him because you are willing to 
discipline him. Why is there such a commotion 
over corporal punishment today, especially 
when it seemed to work so well on so many of 
us? 

J.P., Toronto, Ontario 

Ouch!! It is difficult for us to envision situa¬ 
tions where spankings are “appropriate and 
deserving”, as you put it. Actually, if you strike 
anyone - camper or Staff - you are commit¬ 
ting the crime of ASSAULT; it would be up to 


the judge or jury to determine if it was justi¬ 
fied or not but I wouldn't want to bet on it. 
Most of us have received spankings from our 
parents at some point in our lives but I don’t 
think we can necessarily say that this is the 
reason we respect authority, are easily disci¬ 
plined and are upstanding citizens. Consider¬ 
ing the number of children who grow up with 
“spankings” (beatings?) and become anti¬ 
social or criminal adults, I don’t think we can 
conclude that spanking per se is a positive or 
negative manner of motivating people; cer¬ 
tainly, a better argument can be made for the 
negative effects of spanking than the posi¬ 
tive. Psychologists insist that corporal pun¬ 
ishment of any kif[dinstills FEAR and ANGER 
and neither of those two reactions are “in¬ 
tended” consequences of adults who 
“spank”. 

If a leader in a camp situation strikes a 
child, we are of the position of siding with the 
child, IRRESPECTIVE OF CIRCUMSTANCES. 
Quite simply, using physical force is really a 
sign of failure. Even the age-old myth that you 
referred to (“spanking is often a way of letting 
a child know you care about him”) is prepos¬ 
terous, when you think about it; it’s a little like 
committing sexual assault and insisting you 
did it because you love the person!!?? You 
wouldn’t believe that just as a child wouldn’t 







believe your logic. 

Discipline today is much more centered 
around discussion, communication, under¬ 
standing consequences of our actions and 
removal, if necessary, but not assault! 


I’m concerned about the increased number of 
“skin” magazines that our male campers invari¬ 
ably snuggle up to camp. We’ve found 11 and 12 
year olds as well as 14 and 15 year olds doing it 
and the numbers continue to increase, not de¬ 
crease. Our policy has always been to confis¬ 
cate this pornography and keep it in the Staff 
Quarters out of their reach; last year our Direc¬ 
tor told us to throw the magazines in the gar¬ 
bage in front of the campers and that would be a 
better lesson for them. Please comment. 

R.G., Orillia, Ontario 

We agree that the influx of this sort of maga¬ 
zine is a veritable problem; the difficulty is 
finding a “best" way of making it a valuable 
learning experience for the campers involved. 
Our greatest consternation comes from the 
double-standard approach; that is, removing 
the magazines to the confines of the Staff 
quarters where the Staff ogle and make crude 
comments and scrutinize the pictures and the 
campers KNOW this is going on! You see, we 
teach most importantly by modelling and any 
psychologist will tell you this. This is obvi¬ 
ously a disastrous way of modelling appropri¬ 
ate behaviour or healthy attitudes toward 
women. The major objection we have with 
“skin” magazines is their objectification of a 
female; the viewer experiences her as a col¬ 
lection of parts only and the personality and 
the integrity of the spirit is totally under¬ 
mined. If you simply toss the magazines into 
the garbage, you are destroying someone’s 
property, but more importantly, what have the 
campers learned? They’ll still buy the stuff at 
a later date and no value has been imparted to 
them. That’s our main point; we feel that a 
potential opportunity exists in the kind of situ¬ 
ation you are bringing forward and it’s indeed 
possible through discussion and questioning 
and probing their minds and attitudes and 
feelings to engenders feeling of “these maga¬ 
zines really do offend us all, don’t they?" Talk 
about dating, about treating women with re¬ 
spect and dignity, about their role and respon¬ 
sibility with respect to birth control, about 
ways of treating women as persons and not 
falling for the breast-fixated appetites that 
advertisers so desperately promote; discuss 
feelings and how embarrassment is natural; 
reinforce our male-female similarities without 
accentuating our differences; talk about the 
importance of the self-concept and how they 
can make themselves feel better by making 
others feel better; emphasize how important 
personality is and that it will last until death - 
the buxom body has about a decade of sur¬ 
vival. These are the kinds of points of discus¬ 


sion we can generate with 12 year olds or 15 
year olds or 40 year olds! Dialogue, discus¬ 
sion and modelling are far more important 
than punishment or the simple destruction of 
a smutty magazine - we can eventually win 
the war by not creating a need! And by the 
way, if you’re honest and sincere and willing 
to dialogue this way and the campers know 
how you feel, you can leave the material with 
the campers and rest assured that they’re 
unlikely to want to refer to those mags again; 
some might even throw them out on their 
own! We’ve seen it happen. 


Thank you for your letters. We regret that we 
cannot answer each one personally; however, 
we will endeavour to publish the most inter¬ 
esting and provocative ones. Address all let¬ 
ters to: The Camping Advisor, c/o The Editor, 
Canadian Camping, 1806 Avenue Road, Suite 
2, Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1. 




GROUP DYNAMICS EXERCISE 

by: Jay Haddad 


Stereotyping! We’re forever labelling people 
and forming immediate impressions of people 
which often prevent us from getting closer 
because we become “arrested” at our first 
perception. Alport defines a stereotype as a 
“preconceived ‘picture in one’s head’ of how a 
particular person OUGHT to act”. And be¬ 
cause we sometimes “expect” people to act a 
certain way, they often do (according to the 
way in which we perceive the behaviour) 
which is called a self-fulfilling prophesy. Many 
studies have shown that this phenomenon of 
stereotyping is especially prevalent in our 
schools; this is because we associate one 
attribute with another. For example, we asso¬ 
ciate someone who is “attractive” with also 
being “intelligent”; similarly, teachers (uncon¬ 
sciously) find “unattractive” Kids to be "stu¬ 
pid”. We associate “fat” kids with being “lazy” 
and we’ll (unconsciously) often reinforce the 
perception as well as the behaviour. 

In 19711 applied for and received $20,000.00 


from the Federal Government to make a film 
through the University of Windsor on STERE¬ 
OTYPING. The goal was grandiose: eliminate 
stereotyping! We wanted to examine six cate¬ 
gories of people commonly stereotyped: stu¬ 
dents, factory workers, Indians, small 
businessmen, welfare recipients and police¬ 
men. We all have preconceived “pictures in 
our heads” of how categories of people act 
such as those mentioned. However, we 
quickly learned that to erase sterotyping was 
to erase communicating and that was impos¬ 
sible. It is possible, though, to teach people 
about their communications and help people 
to understand that stereotyping is normal and 
natural but that it acts as a great barrier in our 
interactions. That’s the whole point of this ex¬ 
ercise; once you recognize that you ARE label¬ 
ling someone in a stereotypical manner 
because he’s black or Jewish or Catholic or fat 
or handicapped or whatever, you are better 
able to get beyond that barrier to understand 


that behind those labels stands a person very 
much like yourself: a person with needs and 
fears and hopes and anxieties and dreams. 

Using the two cartoon sketches, have your 
groups (three or four) fill in the captions with 
comments they feel might be said in the given 
situations. After these are completed, share 
them with the other groups, have a laugh, 
explore the social contexts or perceptions of 
each given situation and then talk about AS¬ 
SUMPTIONS. Discuss the assumptions that 
the group made about the given situations 
and then discuss the many ways in which we 
make other “similarly wrong” assumptions 
about people and situations in our every day 
experiences or in our camp situations. 

The greatest battle against stereotyping is 
to be constantly challenging yourself asking: 
why do I feel this way? Are my assumptions 
valid? Am I being fair? Am I distancing myself 
from someone because of labels? Oftentimes, 
especially at camp, we have our kids stereo- 



8 





typed BEFORE they get off the bus! Imagine! committed a great communications injustice is to be aware and cognizant of the fact that we 

Most counsellors will ask the previous year’s because of the ASSUMPTIONS we are mak- are doing it and that it is wrong; only then can 

counsellor if this kid was the trouble-maker or ing. It’s unfair at the very least to assume that you get Into The Icicle Mirror (the name of our 

this one the star athlete or if this was the kid a child who’s just spent a year in the city is film) and shatter the frozen reflection of an 

that stole etc. and then we think that we’ve got going to be the “same” as he was last sum- image we have of a person and get beyond the 

it all figured out, when in reality we’ve just mer. The important point about stereotyping tyranny of our labels. 



Assumptions that you made about the situation: 


(\ Prayer 


O Father, whose voice I hear in the winds, and 
whose breath gives life to all the world, hear 
me, I am a child before You, one of your many 
children. 

I am small and weak. I need your strength 
and wisdom. Let me walk in Beauty and make 
my eyes ever behold the red and purple 
sunset. 

Make my hands respect the things You have 
made; my ears sharp to hear Your voice. Make 
me wise, so that I may know the things You 
have taught my people, the lessons You have 
hidden in every leaf and rock. 


I seek strength, Father - not to be superior to 
my brothers, but to be able to fight my 
greatest enemy, myself. Make me ever ready 
to come to You with clean hands and straight 
eye so that when life fades as the fading 
sunset my spirit may come to You without 
shame. 

- Tom Whitecloud 

prayer inscribed on monument at St. Regis 
Reservation - Akwesane Mohawk 




9 




CAMPER MOTIVATION 
A Now Look at an Old Topic 

by Diane Blair, Camp Gay Venture 


A child is like a banana. Of all the theories, 
principles, psychological tactics and game 
techniques promoted over the years, no one 
has come up with this one. Michael 
Brandwein did. He’s a Chicago lawyer who 
uses his experience not only in camping but, 
magic, educational television and Second 
City Improvisation to make his point. Doubling 
as a professional leadership and educational 
training consultant, he stakes his claim on 
establishing motivation through defining 
what’s relevant to the group and to the event. 

Human energy need rot be spent on the old 
and impossible task of Mnding needs but on 
creating them tailor-made to the setting. 
What’s the trick? Generating tension. 
Brandwein names five compounding avenues 
for generating tension: challenge; competi¬ 
tion; reward; fantasy and deception. Anyone 
who’s worked with children in the last few 
years should have thoughts of the dark ages 
with the mention of competition or deception. 
Without a doubt, the tension principle needs 
some explanation. 

Tension may also be thought of as creating 
suspense. This is a more palatable thought 
perhaps, but, it’s the application which is of 
greatest importance. For instance, how can 
cabin clean up with a group of 13 year olds be 
made suspenseful? 

Challenge: The essence of challenge is in 
the delivery. Do not confront but create an 
atmosphere of wonder or doubt. “I’ve never 
seen thirteen year olds that could really clean 
anything. You’re all the same, clean is just not 
in your nature.” Imagine being accused of be¬ 
ing just like every other kid. The challenge to 
impress has been made. 

Competiton: No greater swear word exists 
for cooperative learning and new game buffs 
than competition. But, look beyond competi¬ 
tion of one against another to competition 



against oneself and one’s imagination. The 
positive powers of competition can be limit¬ 
less. Why? Another faux pas: manipulation. 
Just as a good actor can control his audience, 
a good leader can hold participants by manip¬ 
ulating the level of difficulty and.mode of com¬ 
petition. Involving the group in problem 
solving can add challenge to competition and 
compound motivation. 

“So you actually can clean a cabin. I’m im¬ 
pressed, but I see why most kids can’t be 
bothered. It takes too long and I know there’s 
no way kids could do so well any faster.” A 
subtle problem has been presented. The 
result - a challenge against themselves, com¬ 
petition against the imaginary world of ‘typi¬ 
cal children’ and lots of space for 
improvement. 

Reward: Remember the old faithfuls: fifteen 
minutes later to bed; double snacks or a swim 
during rest hour. All are physical rewards. 
Without slipping into theories, Brandwein 
looks to the other end of the spectrum, to 
those ego building ‘pats on the back’. 

“Look at this unbelievable cabin,” you tell 
the counsellor next door as she’s dragged into 
the cabin. “Just look at Cathy’s bed and Mar¬ 
tha’s trunk, and check out this floor Laurie did 

19 

To portray this avenue Brandwein was a 
master of disguises, from a sportscaster to a 
doctor. All are facades to enable delivery of 
reward. Such skills are valuable but the most 
valuable is the maintenance of genuine enthu¬ 
siasm and a personal approach. 

Fantasy: With skill and practice comes ex¬ 
pertise. Brandwein’s final avenues seem the 
tools of the advanced motivator. His version of 
fantasy is comparable to Steve Van Matre’s 
methods for acclimatization. That is, create a 
scene and develop roles. 


AMERICAN CAMPING 
ASSOCIATION 
2nd Annual Fall 
Management Conference 

November 3 - 5 - Baltimore, Maryland 
Howard House Hotel (309-539-1680) 
Non-Member Fees 
$300 before October 7 
$330 after October 7 


Take the Seven Dwarfs. All ‘Sleepy’ does is 
make perfect beds, ‘Dopey’ meticulously ti¬ 
dies shelves and ‘Sneezy’ sweeps a spotless 
floor. Tomorrow campers challenge them¬ 
selves to a new character role. For the more 
advanced crew a more advanced scene; per¬ 
haps designing the ultimate robots. Each has 
the perfect program for the most efficient 
cleaning job imaginable. If accomplished 
well, this could be their ticket to fame and 
fortune. 

Deception: Also maximized by the creative 
mind, deception may otherwise be titled pro¬ 
ductive lying. It’s the art of taking the task out 
of getting things done. Brandwein described 
having had a hundred day-campers waiting to 
be bussed home. With an approaching heavy 
storm, it was necessary to delay plans and 
move for shelter. It is evident that cooperation 
of a massive proportion must be obtained. 

From the shelter is seen a secretive but 
obvious figure putting up a movie screen. 
Brandwein begins: 

Listen you guys, I hear our programme 
director has our favorite ROADRUN¬ 
NER movie, and he thinks he’s going to 
watch it all by himself. We’re not going 
to allow that are we? I’ll bet if weYe 
really quiet, get down really low, and 
move all together we can sneak in be¬ 
hind him and catch him in the act! 
(pause)... I don’t know if you guys can 
be that sneaky though... You can! O.K. 
then, really quiet now, get down low... 

A child is like a banana. It’s clearer now. A 
leader need not be compelled to ‘do things’ to 
kids who don’t want to participate. A good 
banana is ripe and marked by Its experience. 
The superb leader can peel it open with real 
problem solving opportunities and find the 
fine fruit hidden inside. It is one’s skill in creat¬ 
ing needs that takes the task out of being 
peeled. Specifically, one’s skill in creating 
challenge, competition, reward, fantasy and 
deception. 


• Administration of High Risk Activities 

• Building Endowment Program for Non-Profit 
Camps 

• Personnel Administration 

• Effective Promotion 

• Computers in Camping 

• Improving Profits for PIC Camps 

• Camping In The 80’s 

FOR APPLICATIONS/INFORMATION: 
American Camping Association 
Bradford Wood, Martinsville, 

Indiana, U.S.A. 46151 
(317-342-8456) 


10 







6EC: f? Major Qualification 
for Aquatic Emergencies 

by: The Royal Life Saving Society Canada 


Aside from whistle blowing (an unfortunate 
and much abused habit), first aid is probably 
the most often used skill by lifeguards. With 
each emergency ranking differently on the life- 
threatening scale, people who work in aquatic 
situations must be able to deal with a severe 
hemorrhage as efficiently as they deal with a 
bleeding nose. 

Aquatic Emergency Care (AEC) is a training 
program for aquatic staff: counsellors, life¬ 
guards, instructors, waterfront and pool su¬ 
pervisors, change room attendents, etc. 
Because of the unique environmental hazards 
surrounding their work place, these people 
need more knowledge and skill than either the 
general public or those who work in non- 
aquatic environments. Aquatic Emergency 
Care training specializes in the techniques 
most appropriate to the aquatic environment 
and equips staff members to handle any emer¬ 
gency on the scale. 

Specialized Aquatic Focus 
One of the unique features of the AEC course, 
aside from its aquatic orientation, is its flexi¬ 
bility: the core content can be tailored to the 
needs and prior training of the candidates. 
Highly professional lifeguard teams in large 
indoor pools will have needs differently from 
camp counsellors who deal with waterfront 
settings and canoe trips. 

The course is practical in nature. Theoreti¬ 
cal material is introduced only if it has a bear¬ 
ing on practice. 

The length of the AEC course can vary de¬ 
pending on the background knowledge of the 
participants and their specific needs for the 
working situation. For a group of staff mem¬ 
bers who have a minimum of Bronze Medal¬ 
lion, AEC skills can be learned in about twenty 
hours of practice. 

Major Emergencies: Minor Qualifications 
Minor emergencies are most common and 
take up probably ninety percent of a life¬ 
guard’s first aid duties - patrons seem to have 
a knack for collecting scrapes, cuts, burns 
and bumps. But staff members have to be 
ready to handle the unexpected and poten¬ 
tially tragic aquatic emergency at any time. 
These are high on the life-threatening scale 
and call for immediate and exacting treatment 
followed by rush referral to emergency medi¬ 
cal services. While these major emergencies 
may be rare, staff response and treatment 
must be performance perfect. Do not ask staff 
members to face the demands of a major 
emergency with minor qualifications. 


Pre-Season or In-Service Training 
The practical focus, the specificity of the 
training to aquatic situations and its flexibility 
in adapting to individual staff requirements 
made Aquatic Emergency Care the fastest 
growing program Royal Life offers. Since 1978, 
when it was first introduced, AEC participa¬ 
tion has increased by no less than fifty per¬ 
cent each year. Over 2300 staff members were 
certified in 1982. 

Recognizing the value of this specialized 
course and their responsibility to the public, 
municipalities and camps most often use 
AEC as the core of their pre-season or in- 
service training programs. It is a challenging 
alternative that appeals to all staff members 
because they learn skills they will actually use 
on the deck or on the beach every day. 

Content Endorsed 

St. John Ambulance recognizes the expertise 
of the Royal Life Saving Society Canada in 
emergency care techniques for the aquatic 
environment and endorses the AEC training 
program. The certification card carries the 
logos of both organizations. Content includes: 

• principles and priorities of emergency care 
with special emphasis on vital signs and 
victim examination 

• basic near-drowning physiology and the im¬ 
plications for airway management and spe¬ 
cial respiratory problems 

• wounds, fractures and Injuries to the chest 
or abdomen 

• head and spinal injuries 

• pressure-related injuries 

• temperature-related problems: hypo-, hyper¬ 
thermia, burns 

• drugs and poisoning 

• Canadian Heart Foundation training in CPR 

• psychological aspects of victim care and 
rescuer response: anxiety and stress 

• entry into emergency medical services. 

For Specific Information 

Contact your provincial branch office of the 
Royal Life Saving Society Canada. 



New Brunswick holds 
Winter Workshop 

by Ian Fowler, NBCA President 

The New Brunswick Camping Association re¬ 
cently held its first Winter Outdoor Skills Insti¬ 
tute, with nineteen delegates present for three 
days of skill and leadership development. 

After braving a snowstorm to reach Cassidy 
Lake, the delegates enjoyed a hot supper and 
were ready to begin full participation in the 
prepared program. Consultant/Advisor Bryan 
Dumouchel started the workshop off with a 
series of co-operative games which set a posi¬ 
tive tone for the remainder of the week-end. 

Friday morning, the delegates again partic¬ 
ipated in a group building program in initiative 
tasks followed by a session on winter hazards. 
With the weatherman’s co-operation, every¬ 
one enjoyed afternoon sessions on cross¬ 
country skiing and snowshoeing. Without 
question, the skiing session provided an un¬ 
forgettable experience for many of those 
present. 

The evening session was again conducted 
by Bryan and saw the delegates involved in a 
“Night Hike” experience, a program area that 
was new to most participants. Upon arriving 
back inside, everyone enjoyed a session on 
quiet games which certainly challenged the 
group’s intellectual ability. 

The sun was shining again for Saturday’s 
program which saw participation in 
campskills and map and compass. The oppor¬ 
tunity to build quinzee shelters was a first for 
most participants. Saturday evening saw eve¬ 
rybody enjoy a cook-out supper then return 
inside for a session on clothing and equip¬ 
ment. After mug-up many of the delegates 
enjoyed a sleep-out in shelters and tents 
erected during the day. 

The final day of the workshop was desig¬ 
nated to allow participants the opportunity to 
develop skills and concepts in nature appreci¬ 
ation. Bryan Dumouchel conducted an inter¬ 
esting session on programming covering 
aspects from the land ethic to games. 

Participants then gathered for a superb 
closing banquet, followed by the presentation 
of certificates. 

W.O.S.I. co-ordinator Ian Fowler termed the 
event a ‘’resounding success” and indicated 
that similar workshops will be held in the fu¬ 
ture. 

The New Brunswick Camping Association 
gratefully acknowledges the financial contri¬ 
butions of Fitness Canada, the New Bruns¬ 
wick Department of Youth and Recreation, 
and the Canadian Camping Association to¬ 
ward this project and wish to extend a special 
thank-you to Bryan Dumouchel whose dedi¬ 
cated leadership made the project such a 
meaningful experience for the delegates. 


11 



Loons 


by Pam Robbins 


Loons have always fascinated me, but it was a 
rare experience with a family of loons that 
made me realize how truly magnificent they 
are. 

One early morning in late June as I was 
paddling along the shoreline of a northern 
lake, I noticed an adult loon ferrying a new¬ 
born chick on its back. Eager to spot the mate 
and other chick, I continued to paddle slowly 
into a secluded marshy bay. Within moments I 
caught my first glimpse of the female loon on 
her nest. As I approached more closely, she 
shifted her position just enough to reveal an 
egg. 

My heart raced at the thought of such a 
once-in-a-lifetime stroke of good luck and per¬ 
fect timing. For what seemed like forever, I sat 
within paddle length from the nest and ner¬ 
vously photographed the hatching. The loon, 
having realized she was not at risk, gradually 
relaxed to the point of eye contact. We had 
shared something intimate. 

When the chick was safely tucked under its 
mother’s wing, I reluctantly left, only to return 
a few hours later to find them on the water with 
the first pair, the newly hatched chick perched 
on its mother’s back. 

The Common Loon (Gavia Immer) or Great 
Northern Diver, is proficient at swimming and 
diving, although very awkward on land as its 
legs are positioned at the very end of the body. 
Consequently they spend most of their time 
afloat, and only mating and nesting instincts 
bring them ashore. 

A loon’s nest consists of a mound of vegeta¬ 
tion situated next to water to provide a quick 
escape route. Two large, brownish eggs are 
laid 24 hours apart and hatch 29 days later. 
The chicks learn to swim and dive soon after 
the natal down is dry. By autumn they are able 
to fly. Loons migrate in the late fall to inland 
coastal waters, returning to the north to mate 
soon after the ice is out. 

In North American bird books, the loon is 
ranked first and lowest in order by ornitholi- 




12 






gists as it has retained more of its primitive 
characteristics than other birds. 

The loon’s distinctive markings make it ex¬ 
tremely photogenic. The iridescent greenish- 
black head, black neck with its band of white 
stripes, black body with white squares and 
dots, white breast and stunning red eyes offer 
striking contrasts. 

The loon is a large bird (5-9 lbs/11-20 kg) and 
its nearly solid bones contribute to a specific 
gravity close to that of water, resulting in its 
ability to submerge instantly at the slightest 
sign of danger. 

Due to body form, loons need long water 
take-offs to acquire the necessary momen¬ 
tum for lift-off. Once airborne, they reach 
speeds of 60 m.p.h. (100 k.p.h.). 

Loons are found in pairs, usually returning 
to the same nesting site each year. While mat¬ 
ing, loons indulge in various antics such as 
courtship dancing. When nesting, loons are 
fiercely territorial, displaying spectacular ma¬ 
neuvers to lure away intruders 


Tv 


WINNING PHOTO! 




i 


r iu 


o « , 


rji?. 


r 


V 




The incomparable call of the loon has no 
rival - 6 different calls have been identified. 
Many who have paddled a canoe, pitched a 
tent in the woods and gazed into a glowing 
campfire have come to love their wild echoe- 
ing cries and marvel at the sound. Should 
their voice ever cease, the wilderness would 
never be the same. 

The loon has long been a symbol of the 
wilderness. Those who have been privileged 
to know them in their natural habitat have 
been left with a profound impression. Loons 
have been protected by the Migratory Bird 
Treaty Act since 1913. But despite this, their 
future looks dim. Loons need solitude and 
seclusion to reproduce. Loss of habitat to de¬ 
velopment, disturbances by motorboats, inva¬ 
sion of nesting sites, loss of eggs and chicks 
to predators, all pose severe threats and have 
resulted in many loons forsaking their former 
haunts to seek out more remote areas. 

Other dangers that have plagued loons in¬ 
clude pesticides found in their food supply, 
botulism, and oil spills on wintering grounds. 
But recently, there has emerged a far more 
serious threat. In the next few years many 
lakes in the eastern part of the continent may 
lose their ability to neutralize acid rain and 
snow and consequently may become incapa¬ 
ble of supporting the aquatic life on which 
loons depend. 

Unless something is done, a painful silence 
may descend on our cherished lakes and 
serve as a poignant reminder of a tragic loss. 


Jv'VS iv * • • * * *" 




VKv 






•\\* %%%% 



Our winning photo this issue was submitted by Pam Robbins, Taylor 
Statten Camps, Toronto, Ontario. This photo was also awarded 1 st prize 
in the Canadian Nature Category at the recent International Camping 
Congress. 






ANNUAL REPORT 1982 RAPPORT ANNUEL 

PRESIDENT’S REPORT 


This has been an outstanding year for CCA/ACC! I want to thank 
each of you for your support of the 1983 International Camping 
Congress. This was the largest single event in our history and so 
many of you contributed so much to this success: leadership to 
sessions, displays and sing songs; financial contributions from indi¬ 
viduals and collectively from Provincial Associations; hospitality to 
those from other countries; unequalled dedication by John Latimer, 
Congress Chairman, and his Steering Committee - each of you can 
be proud and pleased. 

Our Association has received significant financial support from 
Fitness Canada over the year. Karl Benne has shared his talents with 
us and we are now fortunate to have Don Fairweather’s guidance in 
future. The funds from Fitness Canada have permitted us to plan 
together more adequately during frequent meetings and also to 
expand our activities and involvements because consultant/ 
advisors have been available to visit at various Provincial Association 
meetings. 

At this 1983 Annual Meeting, we are pleased to participate with 
the Manitoba Camping Association. During the year, we have also 
had opportunities to gather in Ontario, Alberta and Newfoundland. 
The CCA/ACC Officers are appreciative of the hospitality received 
during these visits. 

A sincere thank you to several members of the Executive whose 
terms are complete. Gary Luthy (Western) and Jane McCutcheon 
(Central) have been Vice Presidents for the past two years and their 
contributions are evident. Dinny Biggs has done a superb job as the 
Leadership Development Programs Chairman. Linda Arnold, Re¬ 
search and Peter Rasberry, Environment are concluding their two- 
year terms of office. Wayne Perkins chaired the 
Consultation/Speakers Bureau Task Force and Jack Pearse con¬ 
cludes his term as Chairman of the Task Force on the Feasibility 
Study for a 1985 National Conference. Finally, John Latimer our 
thanks to you for your tenacity and zeal. 

George Matthews (East) Vice President has been re-elected and 
his continuing involvement will be welcomed; thank you George. 
The CCA/ACC Secretary, Jan James, and Treasurer, George 
Ross, have agreed to assume another term in their respective 
capacities and this is very much appreciated. Cliff Labbett has been 
an involved and helpful Past President, and it is good to know his 
contributions will continue over the next two years. We welcome 
Pauline Rondeau who has recently accepted the Chairmanship of 
the French Language Committee. Louis Jean, newly elected (Cen¬ 
tral) and Terry Burkhalter (Western) Vice Presidents will also be 
great additions to the Executive. We welcome Hugh Phillips who 
has accepted the Chairmanship of a new Task Force re CCA/ACC 
activities in the 1985 International Year of Youth. 

A salute to Mamie Ellis, our energetic Chairman of Public Rela¬ 
tions and Promotion. What a great job you are doing Mamie and 
thanks for launching the National Camping Day effort; a significant 
promotional effort for camping across the country. The Publications 
Chairmen, Wendy Wren, Judy Richards and Beth Moon will con¬ 
tinue the work they have started with this important aspect of our 
activities. Bruno Morawetz has agreed to press on with Archives, as 
will Dorothy Walter, Education, Barry Lowes, Immigration, Brian 
Law, Standards and Janet Adamson, Retail Sales - our thanks to 
each of you. And thanks to Jay Haddad, Newsletter Chairman who 
has agreed to continue developing Canadian Camping. 

Marjorie Booth, our Executive Director, gives unceasingly of her 
time and talents. She has responded cheerfully to all demands and 
we are fortunate to have her in this role. 


Finally, thank you all for your support as I commence this new 
term as CCA/ACC President. The ’83 Congress theme says it - 
together we are stronger. I pledge my best efforts to the goals of 
CCA/ACC as together we strive to develop and improve camping 
across Canada. 

Jocelyn Palm 


EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR’S REPORT 

The year 1982/83 will go down in history as a very important one 
for the Canadian Camping Association. The volunteer leaders of 
our committees and task forces achieved many objectives in their 
respective action plans. We, therefore, revised and prepared our 
new CCA/ACC Action Plan for 1983-1986. 

As a result of volunteers, efforts during the last years, we com¬ 
pleted several original tasks and the committee or task force respon¬ 
sible have been terminated. These include the Funding Committee; 
the 1983 International Camping Congress Task Force; the 1985 
National Conference Task Force; and the Nominations Committee. 

We continue to receive financial contributions from Fitness Can¬ 
ada for which we are very grateful. These funds provide a significant 
portion of our administration budget. As well, Fitness Canada 
supported Consultant/Advisors to several provinces and air travel 
for delegates to attend our Pre-Congress Workshops on Standards, 
Education and Promotion. 

During the past year, the Board of the CCA/ACC has contributed 
to my professional development in several ways. In June, I attended 
the first year program of the Canadian Institute on Association 
Management. This is a joint program of the Institute of Association 
Management and the Canadian Chamber of Commerce. In addi¬ 
tion, I participated in camping association conferences and work¬ 
shops to promote the Congress, book sales, and/or give leadership 
in Manitoba, Saskatchewan, Alberta, the U.S.A. and the Christian 
Camping International - Canadian Division Conference. 

Our national office staff has increased this year. Sharon Freedman 
joined our association staff in November and works two days per 
week. She has capably assumed the typing and presentation of the 
written materials circulated to Board Members and Chairmen. Mary 
Roy continues the functions of bookkeeping, invoicing, and working 
directly with the Publications Committee to order and inventory our 
book sales. Together, Sharon and Mary provide excellent support 
services five days per week. Thank you both for all your hard work 
during this very busy year. 

Four Chairmen have made superior efforts this year. Brian Law, 
Standards, Dorothy Walter, Education and Marnie Ellis, PR. & 
Promotion Chairmen led workshops which will have long-term 
benefits for the Association. John Latimer’s work on the Interna¬ 
tional Camping Congress was tremendous. 

As we begin a new two-year cycle in the life of the Association, I 
want to thank all the volunteers who give so much to the CCA/ 
ACC. It is a pleasure to work with such dedicated individuals and to 
seek new challenges in the growth of organized camping together. 

Marjorie Booth 


NEWFOUNDLAND & LABRADOR 

During the summer of 1982 information packets were distributed to 
our agency camps by members of the Executive who visited the 
camps on our behalf. These included copies of the Standards 
booklet, our brochure, a recent newsletter, a song book and other 
program resource material. 

The fall brought the realization that we had to meet with our 
members and hear their wishes as to what programs they would find 
useful, otherwise we might be working in a vacuum. At that meet¬ 
ing, about 30 attending, we had discussion groups which submitted 
several priority items they would like to see done by the Association. 
These were: 

a) Leadership Training courses held annually for staff; 

b) An up-to-date directory, and a resource directory of staff, 

speakers and equipment available; 

c) More pulicity through other agency newsletters. 

We are gradually taking action on these suggestions. We are 
getting a directory ready, the newsletter for the spring is under way, 
and we are scheduling a leadership course for the last weekend in 
May. 

In April we will hold our Annual Meeting and Spring Seminar day 
and will be having as our guests, our CCA President, Jocelyn Palm, 
and our Eastern Vice-President, George Matthews. 

We are very pleased to welcome as a new agency member the 
Max Simms Memorial Camp for the Handicapped at Bishop’s Falls 
in central Newfoundland. They had a busy and successful year last 
year, and we hope they will take part in our activities as much as 
possible. 

To help us get our Standards and Accreditation program ad¬ 
vanced, we have plans for a summer project whereby camps will be 
visited and a report compiled. 

At this time I would like to express our thanks to Kevin Moore and 
his Executive for their valuable contributions to the NLCA. We are 
endeavouring to set in motion some of the ideas they put forward 
last year. 

I would like to extend our thanks as well to CCA for their kind 
words and willingness to help us. it makes the distance and cutbacks 
somewhat easier to deal with if we know we are supported by our 
“mainland” friends. 

For us, the International Congress in Toronto in January was an 
exciting and encouraging event. We were fortunate in having at¬ 
tendees at the three workshops and they have been making a 
contribution to our Association since. 

We hope by this time next year to have increased our member¬ 
ship, visited more camps and to have found a home for our resource 
material and perhaps some basic logistical problems we have had 
will be sorted out. Now that year-round conference centres are the 
coming thing here, we need to be ready and accessible to offer help 
and be consulted, and to do so we need to be more up-front than has 
been possible up to now. We can always try. . . 

Elizabeth Wegenast 


NOVA SCOTIA 

The highlight of the year was the Camping Association’s involve¬ 
ment in a Community Development Project funded by the Federal 
Government. We were provided with three staff through the Project 
and these additional persons enabled us to do many things that 
would not have been accomplished. 


In May, we held our Annual Counsellor Conference with Jay 
Haddad and Jude deGuerre taking the main roles but with many 
other sessions taking place to wet the participants’ appetite for 
running a good camp program. 

In June, the Association held a training session for counsellors in 
Cape Breton at Camp AiteBreagh in Orangedale. This was the first 
time that a Counsellor Training weekend was held in Cape Breton. It 
was well attended and was a very successful weekend - so much so 
that a similar event is being planned for next year. 

During the summer, our staff provided special training events for 
individual camps and visited all the camps to carry the message of 
the Association and its operation. Interestingly enough, and maybe 
not so, but some of the Directors operating camps had never heard 
of the Association! Apparently, our message and material is not 
filtering down to the camp level. The actual visitation is good and will 
allow us to provide up-to-date information for our new Directory. 

Plans were formulated and developed to inform as many people 
as possible of the International Congress to be held in Toronto in 
January. As a result of this effort and financial assistance from the 
Department of Culture, Recreation and Fitness for the Province of 
Nova Scotia and Fitness Canada, fifteen persons were assisted with 
travel funds to attend the Congress. We wish to thank both of these 
bodies for their assistance. The Association itself, was able to also 
provide some funds. In all, Nova Scotia had over thirty persons in 
attendance at the Congress. Not bad for a small province. Prior to 
the Congress, five of our members attended workshops on Educa¬ 
tion, Standards and Promotion. As a result of the Promotion work¬ 
shop, we will participate in National Camping Day on April 14, 
1983. 

During the year, we surveyed our member camps to provide us 
with information on their training needs. This information is being 
put together by Jude deGuerre and will be available for next year’s 
training programs. 

We have been asked to participate in a workshop designed to 
evaluate the Nova Scotia Outdoor Leadership Development Pro¬ 
gram in March and Murray Wickwire will be our representative. 

During the year, we received additional funds from the Depart¬ 
ment of Culture, Recreation and Fitness to enable us to sponsor the 
training sessions and funds to provide services to our members. For 
this we express our thanks to the Department. 

George H. Matthews 


NEW BRUNSWICK 

The past year has been one of significant growth and achievement 
for the New Brunswick Camping Association, thanks to the nu¬ 
merous hours of effort put forth by our volunteers. Certainly, with¬ 
out the commitment of these individuals, NBC A would not be the 
strong, unified body it is today. 

Many activities highlighted the past year, however, those offered 
by the Training Committee had the broadest effect on the general 
membership. The spring Counsellor/Director week-end attracted 
eighty-five delegates with John Jorgenson from Camp Tawingo 
providing exceptional leadership to the event. The fall Annual 
Meeting attracted over 50 people and was combined with a lunch¬ 
eon speaker, entertainment and a workshop for camp committee 
members. Our association is indebted to Jack Pearse and Jane 
McCutcheon for their outstanding contributions to this event. Our 
first Winter Outdoor Skills Institute was also very successful with 
nineteen delegates present for four days of leadership and skill 


development in Winter Camping. Bryan Dumouchel provided ex¬ 
cellent leadership to this workshop. NBC A gratefully acknowledges 
the support of the CCA and Fitness Canada for providing consultant 
advisors for two of these events. 

Our other committees besides performing their routine duties 
have all provided significant contributions to our growth. An awards 
program recognizing our volunteers, a new newsletter format, an 
attractive promotional brochure and membership kit, our first set of 
by-laws, a major fund-raising campaign, improved French language 
service, and continued membership growth are but a few of the 
many achievements. 

Without question, the past year has been extremely encouraging 
for our association. To ensure the continuation of our momentum 
we are preparing a three year master plan thus providing us with a 
direction for the future. 

In conclusion, I wish to thank our dedicated board for their efforts, 
Flora Dell, and the New Brunswick Department of Youth and 
Recreation for their financial support, the numerous corporate 
companies for their donations and our special friends from Camp 
Tawingo for their valued leadership. As a team, we have bonded 
together to provide camping in New Brunswick with a strong foun¬ 
dation. 

Ian R. Fowler 


QUEBEC 

Le program d’accreditation de l’Association des camps du Quebec a 
fait I’objet d’un renouvellement important. Ce programme est 
oriente vers une auto-evaluation des membres, le respect des 
normes universelles et du code d’^thique. 

Une etude de marche a ete realisee cette annee et demontre le 
haut taux de satisfaction de la clientele. Un guide d evaluation des 
services est actuellement en phase de realisation. Tous ces projets se 
veulent des elements essentiels aux gestionnaires. 

La Semaine des camps, activity importante et connue au Quebec 
depuis plus de cinq ans. Salons d’expositions, centres commer- 
ciaux, emissions de radio et de television, articles de journaux et 
revues permettent a l’ACQ de faire connaitre ses membres et sa 
propre existence. Plusieurs sessions de formation ont ete realisees 
dont une sur le “marketing” qui a suscite un grand interet. Au 
printemps, un colloque pour les directeurs, le personnel-cadre et les 
moniteursse tiendrales 13-14-15 mai 1983. 

Claire Menard 


ONTARIO 

The highlight of the past year for OCA was the International Con¬ 
gress held in Toronto in January. Chairman John Latimer and his 
committee presented a professional, lively and smoothly run confer¬ 
ence on behalf of CCA and Ontario was honoured to host this event. 
We all enjoyed meeting delegates from across Canada, and the 
sharing and celebration that resulted. 

Apart from Congress, events in Ontario proceeded as usual - a 
Spring Counsellor Conference at Seneca College, various work¬ 
shops and forty nine Standards visits in the summer. One innovation 
that proved to be very successful in June was the “last minute 
placement camper service”. Camps notified us of their vacancies 


and the office advised parents, as they phoned in, of these vacan¬ 
cies. We plan to repeat this service this year. 

1983 is OCAs 50th anniversary and plans are under way for a 
birthday celebration on April 25th at our annual meeting. The 
Archives Committee is publishing a booklet of the OCAs history to 
commemorate this anniversary. This will be available in the Autumn. 

The past year for OCA has been busy and this year promises to be 
lively - we hope that many CCA members will visit us at our next 
conference in the winter of 1984 in Toronto. 

Janet Adamson 


MANITOBA 

The 1982 year was another good one for MCA. I have served on the 
executive committee for 5 years, 3 of which were as chairman of the 
board. I’ve seen growth and I’ve experienced times of frustration 
and growth pains. The factor that has to be the highlight during my 
leadership and what I feel are real pluses for MCA are the individual 
members who help make the association work by volunteer commit¬ 
ment. As a prairie association we recognize our need for each other 
within the membership and the importance of the national associa¬ 
tion, CCA. We learn so much from each other. 

Some of the highlights of the year were: 

1. The compiling of a camp directory that was distributed to MCA 
members and distributed widely at a “Parade on Camps” which 
was held at the St. Vital Mall. Fifteen camps cooperated in 
displaying a united front for the public to choose good camps to 
send their children to. 

2. The standards program continues to be a high priority for the 
association and again this year the visitations program involved 
many volunteers who reported their appreciation for the pro¬ 
gram and what it did for them personally as well as the impor¬ 
tance of the association maintaining a high profile in this 
important aspect of MCA. 

3. The Training Committee utilized the resources of CCA leaders by 
calling on Ron Johnstone to lead a Camp Directors seminar on 
camp financing in January of 1982. In November at the fall 
Directors Conference Marj Booth updated us on the work of 
CCA and facilitated a discussion that allowed us as an association 
discover our individual and corporate need in the area of C.I.T. 
development and all of the mechanics involved in maintaining a 
good C.I.T. program. 

4. In 1982 we compiled a handbook on the history and the me¬ 
chanics of running the Sunshine Fund in cooperation with the 
Winnipeg Free Press. A lot of work goes into this project and we 
feel there are many pluses that MCA gains through this coopera¬ 
tive effort. 

5. Donations for ’82 to the Sunshine Fund surpassed previous 

years. The comparative figures are as follows: 

Received in 1980 $11,906.35 

1981 25,241.13 

1982 34,759.66 

Needless to say, we feel good about the community support that 
provided over 283,610 camper days in 1982. 

6. The MCA newsletter continues to be a big success as MCA and 
CCI (Christian Camping International, MB division) cooperate in 
a joint effort to publish 5 to 6 newsletters a year. The fine work of 
Cliff Derksen as artist and editor has been much appreciated. 

7. Bryan Hill, Manitoba Pioneer Camp, has been elected to serve as 
chairman of the MCA board and association. Brian has been my 


vice president and now I feel that MCA is fortunate to have as its 
president a very capable leader, camper, and gifted person. 

CCA will continue to hear from us and I know Brian will be an 
asset on the CCA board. 

Terry Burkhalter 


SASKATCHEWAN 

1982- 83 is the year of optimism for the Saskatchewan Camping 
Association. It began with the great Spring Conference held on May 
1. CCA came and gave us their expertise and enthusiasm. A large 
number of people participated in the events of the day and a number 
of new people came on the board at the annual meeting which was 
held the same day. 

We began a new project for SCA in September under the guid¬ 
ance of Marvin Regehr. This was to put together a Directory of all 
camps in Saskatchewan. A major part of the project was to get the 
names and addresses and to get response from the many camps 
with whom we have no contact. We speak for about twenty camps 
but there are probably more than one hundred other camps out 
there who may or may not know we exist to speak for them. 
Projected date of release for the new Directory is April 1/83. 

The ’83 Spring Conference is in the planning stages. The keynote 
address will be given by Ron Johnstone now of Calgary. Several of 
the other sessions will be done by those who attended workshops at 
the Congress and brought back information to share with other 
camping people who were not able to go. 

The high point of the year for the fifteen of us who went from 
Saskatchewan was Congress ’83 in Toronto. Aside from the great 
workshops, seminars, and keynote addresses, a spinoff of value was 
the good relationships developed outside and inside the SCA. This 
infused the organization with strength to carry on. David Godwin 
has worked hard for the association and with his skills and enthusi¬ 
asm at the top, the SCA is sure to see growth and achievement in 

1983- 84. 

Karen Crawford 


ALBERTA 

The new Board of Directors began their term in February of 1982 
with nearly a complete slate of new volunteers. This past year, even 
with its severe economic restraints, has had several highlights: 

• International Camping Congress, Toronto, Ontario 

This four-day event will probably go down in history as the 
highlight of the camping movement in Canada during the past 
twenty-five years. Forty-five delegates from Alberta, (the largest 
delegation outside of Ontario) attended, representing a wide 
range of camps throughout the province. From these forty-five 
people, the association will draw its strength in the coming two 
years. The Congress Selection Committee was capably chaired by 
Wayne Perkins. 

• Great West Fund Raising Campaign 

In September, Great West Entertainments Ltd. were contracted 
by the ACA Board to conduct a fund raising campaign which 
resulted in approximately $24,000 being raised. 

The allocation of these funds were appropriated by the Board as 
follows for 1983: 


Regional Leadership Workshops $3,000 

Miscellaneous Leadership Workshop Subsidies 

$2,000 

International Camping Congress $5,000 

ACA Scholarship Fund $ 1,250 

Campership Fund $6,000 

Miscellaneous Projects $7,000 

• Long Range Plan 


The Long Range Plan has been updated and will continue to be 
our guiding light for the next three to five year period. A substan¬ 
tial amount of work, energy and time has been put into this 
document since October, 1980 when it was initially developed. 
Copies of the plan will be available at the conference and ques¬ 
tions may be directed to any Board Member. 

• Committee Projects 

Your Board of Directors undertook a number of tasks as related to 
various ACA committees i.e. education, standards, communica¬ 
tion, conference, research and development. Various chairman 
established committees and utilizing the long range plan pro¬ 
ceeded towards their mandate. 

• Area Reps 

The five Area Reps made numerous contacts with camps and 
outdoor enthusiasts throughout the province promoting our Asso¬ 
ciation and the camping movement in general. The Area Reps 
continue to play a key role in the Association as they are our 
liaison with various camps. Over the year a number of key issues 
such as leadership needs, facility development and grant informa¬ 
tion were handled by various reps and in turn, brought to the 
Board and general membership’s attention. 

• National Association 

The Canadian Camping Association is our national body and 
therefore, the communication link with other provinces and the 
Federal Government. I represented the ACA on the National 
Board of Directors. A number of priority areas presently being 
dealt with at a national level are standards, professional develop¬ 
ment, archives, immigration etc. The CCA is a strong and unified 
force representing the organized camping movement for the 
citizens of the country. In 1981, Alberta was capably represented 
on the CCA executive by Gary Luthy as Western Regional Vice 
President and Jan James as Secretary. A special word of thanks to 
Marjorie Booth, Executive Director and Jocelyn Palm, President, 
for their guidance and continual support to myself and the ACA 
Board. 

• Outdoor Recreation Section 

Our Association receives funding on an annual basis from the 
Outdoor Recreation Section of the Provincial Recreation and 
Parks Department. In 1982, our grant amounted to $12,800. A 
special word of thanks is due Punch Jackson and Dianne Norris 
for providing continued support and assistance to our Associa¬ 
tion. We look forward to maintaining a close working relationship 
with our camping colleagues in the Outdoor Recreation Section. 

I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the ACA Board 
Members for their efforts and support over the past year. For those 
whose term of service is up, I extend a welcome to keep in touch 
with the Association’s activities and look forward to their continued 
support. 

For those remaining and those joining the Board, 1983 promises 
to be an exciting year. There are many tasks to be accomplished, 
each with its own unique rewards. 

Lastly, remember the words of William James ... “I will act as if 
what I do makes a difference.” 

Michael Kenny 


BRITISH COLUMBIA 

Continuing progress is being made in camp visiting and in the 
implementation of our standards program. Government funding in 
1982 permitted us to retain the company Dr. Don Arnold & Associ¬ 
ates to assist us in our summer visiting program throughout the 
province. Despite careful monitoring in previous years, our system 
of visits and subsequent accreditation had broken down. As a result 
of this summer project the records were updated and visits were 
completed utilizing wherever possible local camping people. We 
hope this will result in further strengthening of regional groupings 
throughout the province. 

Dr. Arnold prepared an excellent report and made significant 
recommendations that are currently being studied by our standards 
committee. Enrollments in the summer of 1982 were high for most 
camps according to statistics forms received in October. 

Regular meetings of the B.C. Camping Association were not held 
during the winter of 1982-83. Previous attempts to hold meetings 
were not successful with few people participating. A major meeting 
in November was held to consider accreditation “Myth or Mandate”. 
It is anticipated the recommendations from this meeting and Dr. 
Arnold’s report will result in some significant changes in our accredi¬ 
tation program over the next few years. 

Participation at International Camping Congress was excellent 
with 12 people from B.C. attending. For those who went it was a 
most exciting event, one that will have lasting values for us all. 

The executive met regularly during the year attending to deal with 
many problems ranging from our involvement with the Outdoor 
Recreation Council to the development of further leadership educa¬ 
tion programs. 

Our committee structure is gradually beginning to develop but our 
biggest single weakness is the lack of committed people. 


Our major goal two years ago was to increase our participation 
and we have not been successful in achieving this end. Some sub 
committee structures are beginning to develop but this will continue 
to be a challenge in the years ahead. 

Lome Bowering 


CCA/ACC NATIONAL STATISTICS 



1980-81 

1981-82 

1982-83 


Summer 

Summer 

Summer 

Total Camp Members 

590 

597 

618 

Accredited Member Camps 

N/A 

553 

500 

Non-Accredited Member Camps 

N/A 

44 

118 

Day Camps 

126 

125 

69 

Resident Camps 

453 

468 

543 

Extended Season Camps 

N/A 

(71) 

190 

Camper/Beds 

64,276 

74,762 

71,182 

Camper/Days 

3,962,848 

4,046,388 

6,103,253 

Individual Campers Registered 

N/A 

N/A 

293,941 

Foreign Campers 

9,790 

9,130 

4,904 

Foreign Camper/Days 

1,503,268 

185,609 

119,158 

Volunteer Staff 

18,405 

12,247 

15,038 

Paid Staff 

19,282 

20,539 

20,080 

Staff/Days 

1,125,676 

1,151,255 

1,293,264 

Foreign Staff 

1,076 

1,268 

1,163 

Staff/Students 

18,787 

16,784 

18,211 

$ Food (thousands) 

11,454 

12,607 

12,923 

$ Wages (thousands) 

17,279 

19,448 

21,153 

$ Foreign Wages (thousands) 

558 

524 

415,897 

$ Foreign Camper Fees 

3,125 

3,500 

2,853,965 


CCA/ACC STATISTICS 1982 - SUMMER 


ITEM 

NFLD. 

N.S. 

N.B. 

QUE. 

ONT. 

MAN. 

SASK. 

ALTA. 

B.C. 

TOTAL 

I. ASSOCIATION 

Member Camp - Total 

(1980) 

13 

35 

31 

129 

204 

43 

20 

80 

63 

618 

Member Camps - Accredited 

— 

35 

— 

129 

197 

22 

9 

56 

52 

500 

Member Camps - Non-Accredited 

13 

— 

31 

— 

7 

21 

11 

24 

11 

118 

Day Camps 

4 

7 

1 

10 

29 

6 

_ _ 

7 

5 

69 

Resident Camps 

9 

27 

28 

117 

175 

36 

20 

73 

58 

543 

‘Other’ Camps 

— 

1 

2 

2 

_ 

1 

_ 

_ 

_ 

6 

4 Season 

— 

— 

3 

49 

26 

12 

2 

_ 

26 

118 

3 Season 

— 

— 

8 

22 

20 

5 

8 

— 

9 

72 

II. CAMPERS: 

Camper/Beds 

1,350 

3,330 

2,331 

15,791 

28,613 

3,257 

3,130 

8,544 

4,836 

71,182 

Indiv. Campers 

4,468 

12,228 

8,500 

52,977 

95,978 

32,303 

16,475 

43,428 

27,584 

293,941 

Camper/Days 

603,195 

117,737 

43,218 

820,812 

1,776,834 

143,642 

89,801 

286,976 

221,038 

6,103,253 

Foreign Campers 

— 

191 

6 

432 

3,463 

381 

7 

24 

400 

4,904 

Foreign Camper/Days 

— 

5,119 

37 

14,458 

93,003 

155 

150 

1,992 

4,244 

119,158 

III. STAFF: 

Volunteer Staff 

158 

898 

931 

790 

2,352 

1,055 

970 

5,000 

2,884 

15,038 

Paid Staff 

195 

482 

406 

4,618 

10,890 

705 

826 

1,232 

726 

20,080 

Staff/Days 

15,579 

46,019 

23,975 

321,841 

612,900 

53,251 

33,895 

88,312 

97,492 

1,293,264 

Foreign Staff 

— 

19 

0 

33 

736 

17 

44 

16 

298 

1,163 

Staff - Students 

237 

459 

512 

3,975 

9,533 

883 

532 

1,236 

844 

18,211 

IV. FINANCE: 

$ Food (thousands) 

97 

246 

139 

3,208 

6,393 

582 

434 

916 

908 

12,923 

$ Wages (thousands) 

136 

436 

495 

5,371 

9,789 

870 

604 

2,212 

1,240 

21,153 

$ Foreign Staff Wages 

— 

8,035 

— 

14,187 

323,442 

18,518 

3,375 

16,000 

32,340 

415,897 

$ Foreign Camper Fees 

- 

45,653 

281 

145,938 

2,560,769 

1,611 

863 

7,480 

91,370 

2.853,965 

% Return/Province 

24% 

56% 

16% 

48% 

51.5% 

54% 

68% 

75% 

49% 



ARCHIVES COMMITTEE 

The activities of this Committee were concentrated on the Interna¬ 
tional Congress held in Toronto, January 26-29. Prior to this event, 
requests went to the Provincial Associations for slide trays depicting 
camp scenes representative of that province. The following Provin¬ 
cial Associations brought slide carousels and slides which were 
shown in the Archives Room. 

Newfoundland, Manitoba, New Brunswick, Ontario, 
Saskatchewan and Nova Scotia. 

Due to the efforts of a large number of people, but notably Helen 
Stewart, Bernadine Dodge and Ken Johnston, the Archives Room 
contained a splendid display of archival material enriched by exhibits 
from the Kanawa Museum provided by Professor Kirk Wipper and 
assisted by Eanswyth Flynn. In addition to the many pictorial dis¬ 
plays, a photographic record of all former CCA Presidents was 
prepared consisting of two frames with empty spaces for the next 
five CCA Presidents. 

The official opening of the Archives Room was attended by a large 
number of delegates from various parts of Canada. While wine and 
cheese was being enjoyed, the Chairman made a strong plea to 
those present to keep in mind that the records of today are the 
archives of tomorrow. He urged them to send all materials relating to 
the business of the Provincial Association to the CCA office for 
deposit at Trent University. The Chairman also expressed the hope 
that every Provincial Association will keep one of its members 
designated as the Archives Chairman whose job it will be to keep the 
CCA Committee informed. 

It would take too long to mention the many volunteers who have 
so greatly contributed to the work of the Archives Committee but 
special mention must be made of Marjorie Booth and Helen Stewart 
who gave unstintingly of their time and talents. 

Finally, your Chairman will be expecting a steady stream of 
communication from the various Provincial Associations. 

Bruno Morawetz, Ph.D. 


EDUCATION COMMITTEE 

The action plan for this committee included a workshop to be held as 
a pre-congress event in January 1983. This goal was reached and 
the objectives for the workshop were achieved. 

On January 25, 25, sixteen delegates representing every prov¬ 
ince met in Toronto with the three members of the Education 
Committee to discuss the proposed curriculum which forms the 
basis for the professional development of camp directors. The 
method used during the first day was to assign small discussion 
groups the topics of the curriculum. Each report to the total group on 
acceptance or changes suggested by the group was then ratified and 
by the end of the first day, all topics had been reviewed and ratified. 

On the second day of the workshop, the groups re-formed to 
discuss the recommended methods for delivery for each specific 
topic. After lunch, discussions, by province, focussed on the ways in 
which the province could make this curriculum available to its 
members; and where they might require additional resources to 
accomplish this goal. 

The final section of the workshop concentrated on the recom¬ 
mendations to the Education Committee and to the Canadian 
Camping Association for future action. These recommendations will 
form the basis of the Education Committee’s work for the next year; 
and will be specifically set out in the workshop report to the Presi¬ 
dent. As chairman, the dedication to the task by the delegates; and 


the support of John Wilkinson and Stan Talesnick as committee 
members and resource persons for the two days was sincerely 
appreciated. 

Dorothy Walter 

ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE 

No report submitted. 


EXECUTIVE WORKSHOP 
TASK FORCE 

As a newly appointed chairman of the Executive Workshop, I can 
only report on the brief exercise I’ve performed and the plan for ’83 
that will coincide with G. Ivan Robinson’s report last year and the 
Action Plan Objective in May of 1981 being: “to conduct by 1983 a 
pilot project of an annual workshop for volunteer executive mem¬ 
bers serving in Provincial Association which will focus on volun- 
teerism”. 

Ivan had circulated a questionnaire to the provincial association 
presidents and CCA executive members in 1982. The results were 
summarized and the following is a summary: 


MOST IMPORTANT 


LEAST IMPORTANT 


1. Short term Association planning. 

2. Assessment of needs of those for 
whom they are responsible. 

2. Coping with Association 
demands/responsibilities. 

3. Decision making (consensus, 
leading meetings, decisions, 
application etc.). 

4. Organizational development - 
transitions, orientation, progressions 
etc. 

5. Problem solving. 

6. Fundraising. 

6. Budget formulation and 
management. 

7. Administrative procedures. 

8. Relationship with 
governments/Provincial, Federal. 

9. Conducting effective meetings. 

10. Policy formulation and 

implementation. 


The CCA board has established October 12-16, 1983 in the 
Toronto area to be the time and place where this pilot project will first 
happen. It must be noted that confirmation of this event will be made 
only if Fitness Canada approves the submission to provide airfares 
for participants. 

As a result of a small group of CCA board members who helped to 
summarize the results of the questionnaire, the following will be the 
focus of the 1983 Executive Workshop: 

1. Boardmanship Training - facilitation, training, consultation, etc. 

2. Board level skills - problem analysis, decision making, how to be 
accountable etc. 

3. Financial responsibilities - fund raising, responsible decision 
making, accountability etc. 

4. Board Task Development - leadership, effective committee 
work, group consensus, how to lead a meeting, taking of min¬ 
utes, log recommendations etc. 


5. Future Boardmanship Stimulation - beyond survival, National 
and Provincial issues, futures, environment, economy, energy, 
staff development. 

The Workshop will be for: 

a) CCA/ACC Board members and will provide provincial repre¬ 
sentatives with a model that can be used in their home provinces. 

b) And one other provincial representative with potential as a Board 
member. 

Mr. Arnie Cohen, Winnipeg, MB has consented to serve as 
resource person. Arnie is presently writing a book on volunteerism 
as a board member of non-profit organizations. 

£ 

Terry Burkhalter 


IMMIGRATION TASK FORCE 

The protocol worked out between the Federal Ministry of Employ¬ 
ment and Immigration and the writer, together with the Executive 
Director, during our meeting in Ottawa, has continued to serve well 
the needs of Canadian camps wishing to employ some foreign camp 
counsellors. Year by year these procedures are becoming used and 
accepted by camps across Canada, making the hiring of foreign 
camp counsellors a smooth operation. We appreciate the continuing 
support and co-operation we have received from the federal offi¬ 
cials. Whenever a problem has arisen, they have been quick to help. 

Few problems occurred during 1982, when they did arise they 
were due to camps not following the protocol step by step. 

We have given three undertakings to the Federal Ministry: 

1. That camps will endeavour to follow faithfully the steps as set out 
in the protocol. 

2. That every effort will be made to hire a “Canadian” before 
requesting permission to employ a foreign camp counsellor. 

3. That camps will provide basic statistical information to their 
provincial associations, which will be collated by the Canadian 
Camping office and forwarded to this Ministry. 

This statistical information is confidential and anonymous and 
imperative if we are to continue to justify our requests. 

We urge you to provide the statistical information requested. 

The statistics compiled by the Federal Government are in the 
chart which follows. 

Barry Lowes 


CONSULTATION/SPEAKERS 
BUREAU TASK FORCE 

The objective of the Consultation Speakers Bureau was to develop a 
list of National Consultant/Speakers who could be called upon to 
address various topics related to camping. This list was then to be 
circulated to provinces and to be used for various Conferences and 
Workshops. 

The Task Force in reviewing Conference Brochures, and work¬ 
shop Speakers realized that it was very difficult to come up with a 
definitive list of speakers for any particular topic. Also, with people 
moving and changing job positions, they were not always available 
as they were at the time of being listed. 

As a result, the difficulty of compiling a list and keeping it updated, 
and recognizing that provinces who are running workshops and 
conferences will contact persons that they know, I am recommend¬ 
ing that the Consultants/Speakers Bureau Task Force be either 
incorporated with the Consultants Advisors Project, or that it be 
dropped as a Task Force of the Canadian Camping Association. 

Wayne Perkins 


FRENCH LANGUAGE COMMITTEE 

The chairman’s position was vacant for several months this year. We 
were, therefore, pleased to confirm Pauline Rondeau as Chairman 
in March 1983. 

During the past year, the Editor of “CANADIAN CAMPING” has 
produced the editorial in both French and English. 

The other major achievement this year was the provision of 
simultaneous interpretation of all key-note speakers at the Con¬ 
gress, in addition to three French sessions offered to francophone 
delegates. The bilingual text provided in the promotional literature 
and program of the Congress also reflected the effort to include both 
language groups. 

Next year we hope to attract articles in French for the inclusion in 
“CANADIAN CAMPING”. Further, we plan to establish translation 
priorities and procedures so that all CCA/ACC volunteers know 
what, when and how translation should be done. 

Jane McCutcheon 


FOREIGN CAMP COUNSELLORS (CCDO 2333-126) 



NFLD PEI 

NS 

NB 

QUE 

ONT 

MAN 

SASK 

ALTA/ 

NWT 

BC/ 

YUKON 

SUB 

TOTAL 

TOTAL 





**8 

“25 

*•3 

•*6 

•*3 

•*22 

••67 


1981 


5 


9 

654 

13 

3 

13 

56 

*753 

820 



••2 



“30 

*•7 

•*9 

•*2 

“8 

“58 

(i) 

1982 


4 

1 

10 

550 

21 

13 

15 

59 

•674 

732 


•With EC Clearance. 

Without CEC Clearance (admitted to the country under various exemption codes such as Working Holiday Programs, Canadian Crossroads, 
etc.) 

(l)‘l not stated’ included in total. 


INTERNATIONAL CAMPING 
CONGRESS/ TASKFORCE 

The International Camping Congress is now history - but what an 
experience it was for over 1,000 delegates. We had speakers and 
delegates from Canada, U.S.A., Norway, Japan, Great Britain, 
Jamaica, Mexico, Australia and New Zealand. After four years of 
hard work, the Steering Committee was gratified to see that its faith 
in this project was justified. 

Special thanks should go to all the 60 volunteers who worked on 
the organizing committees, all the provincial presidents who helped 
promote the Congress and recruited speakers and delegates, the 
hundreds of donors and to the OCA and CCA/ACC staff, to Fitness 
Canada and the Government of Ontario, all of whom contributed so 
much to our success. 

This Congress was a remarkable achievement. The results of the 
Congress can already be seen across Canada in the leadership and 
activity levels of the provincial associations. It proves once again the 
truth of our Congress theme: TOGETHER WE ARE STRONGER. 

John Latimer 


LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT 
PROGRAM COMMITTEE 

Under the Consultant/Advisor project funded by Fitness Canada 
during 1982-83, the chart below outlines the resource people spon¬ 
sored and the respective costs. The CCA/ACC appreciates the 
learning opportunities made possible through this Fitness Canada 
grant. Each participant returns to his/her camp to train other camp 
leaders in the new activity skills which will be passed along to 
hundreds of campers. 

Two subsequent C/A requests from B.C. for Jack Pearse and 
Manitoba for Jay Haddad have been approved by the national 
executive for internal funding. The wide use of this project to train 
provincial leaders in various skill areas for camps is evident. It was, 
therefore, disappointing to learn that Fitness Canada did not ap¬ 
prove funding to carry on the Consultant/Advisor program for 
1983-84. 


ASSOC. 

CONS/AD V. 

DATE 

PARTI¬ 

CIPANTS 

TRAVEL 

MEALS 

ACCOM. 

BC 

Ken Low 

Apr. 82 

45 

324.64 

25.00 

SCA 

Dinny Biggs 

May 82 

44 

507.50 

.121.75 

NBCA 

John Jorgenson 

May 82 

82 

223.55 

— 

NSCA 

Jay Haddad 

June 82 

30 

215.45 

— 

OCA 

Ken Low (2) 

Jan 83 

150 

387.50 

147.20 

OCA 

Brad Kilb 

Jan 83 

93 

631.00 

100.00 

ACA 

John Latimer 

Mar 83 

40 

418.00 

100.00 

NBCA 

Bryan Dumouchel 

Mar 83 

19 

241.74 

51.44 


9 


503 

2,949.38 

545.39 


Dinny Biggs 

1982 SOURCE COUNTRY & PROVINCE OF DESTINATIONS 


COUNTRY NFLD 

PEI 

NS 

NB 

QUE 

ONT 

MAN 

SASK 

ALTA/ 

NWT 

BC/ 

YUKON 

NOT 

STATED 

TOTAL 

ENGLAND 




2 

74 

3 

4 


4 

1 

88 

NORTHERN IRELAND 





1 

1 





2 

SCOTLAND 





4 


1 




5 

WALES 





4 

1 


2 



7 

AUSTRIA 









1 


1 

BELGIUM 







2 




2 

DENMARK 





1 






1 

FRANCE 


i 



2 


3 




6 

GERMANY 





2 


1 




3 

IRELAND 





1 






1 

THE NETHERLANDS 





2 


1 




3 

SWEDEN 





1 






1 


SWITZERLAND 


NIGERIA 


ISRAEL 


JAPAN 


PHILIPPINES 


AUSTRALIA 


NEW ZEALAND 


U.S.A. 


MEXICO 


TRINIDAD & TOBAGO 


DOMINICA 


HAITI 


ARGENTINA 


VENEZUELA 


NOT STATED 


TOTALS 


10 580 28 22 17 67 



















1985 NATIONAL CONFERENCE 
TASKFORCE 

The Task Force realized that it would be logical to study the feasibility 
of any National Conference in 1985 after the results of the Interna¬ 
tional Camping Congress were known. As a result, a questionnaire 
was circulated to the provinces in March. The provincial responses 
will be available in May so the Task Force will complete its recom¬ 
mendations soon after. 

Jack Pearse 

NEWSLETTER COMMITTEE 

“CANADIAN CAMPING” has had a big year! We completed our 
first volume using the format established in 1981-82. The response 
to the newsletter was certainly gratifying if not overwhelming. 

Two new features became regular additions in the newsletter: the 
winning photograph and the camp advisor column. 

Several articles were submitted from many provinces. My sincere 
thanks to those members who contributed articles, poems, recipes 
and photographs last year. As a result, we were able to expand the 
newsletter to twenty pages. However, we still need coast-to-coast 
content so all members should try to get involved! 

Next year we plan to increase the advertising and subscription 
revenue so that we can continue to improve CANADIAN CAMP¬ 
ING. 

Jay Haddad 

NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE 

By January 31, 1983, there was only one nomination received for 
each elected office on the CCA/ACC Executive. Therefore the 
following persons have been elected by acclamation: 

President Jocelyn Palm (Ontario) 

Eastern Vice President George Matthews (Nova Scotia) 

Central Vice President Louis Jean (Quebec) 

Western Vice President Terry Burkhalter (Manitoba) 

These persons will serve for a two year term commencing with the 
CCA/ACC Annual Meeting on May 6, 1983. 

Congratulations to all the new Executive Officers for 1983-1985. 
Cliff Labbett 

PUBLICITY & PUBLIC RELATIONS 

I have been really fortunate this year to meet many Directors and 
camp staff across the country. Through the auspices of CCA, 
personal travel, and the International Congress, I have visited 
Saskatchewan, Manitoba, Alberta and Ontario and attended meet¬ 
ings and conferences there. Getting to know the people and the 
camps which make up CCA is an essential part of promotion, and I 
want to thank everyone for being so kind and welcoming. 

The major work I have done this year, obviously, revolves around 
the launching of National Camping Day. First there was the prepara¬ 
tion and giving of the Pre-Congress Workshop on Promotions in 
Toronto, January 25 and 26. This was a really good gathering - 
allowing interchange, discussion and education. The provincial 
delegates had an opportunity to broaden their knowledge of camp¬ 
ing in Canada, as well as of PR. I wish to thank the provincial 
organizations for selecting such good delegates, who came to share 
and to learn, and to those delegates themselves, who gave of their 
time to attend the workshop, and to work for CCA. 

Since the workshop, hours have been spent on getting the posters 
designed, printed, and mailed; on mailings; communications; pro¬ 
vincial events, etc. Not only my time, but that of each delegate and a 
lot of effort by Jocelyn Palm and Marjorie Booth has gone in to 


making National Camping Day happen. 

An article has been prepared for the CCA publication, and 
something will appear in all future issues. The next three National 
Camping Days are already in the works, so we look for bigger and 
better things each year. 

This report, of necessity, is written before April 14 - look for 
specific results and a report in the next magazine. At this point, 
however, I can say that things look good. At the Pre-Congress 
Workshop, the New Brunswick delegates used the words “baby 
steps” to talk about their beginnings into PR. Well, we have taken 
those baby steps as a national association this year. Some will say 
they are too small, some say too big. However, you must take them 
before you can walk, and then run, and I think we have made secure 
baby steps. 6,500 posters have been distributed across the country 
to member camps. Delay in the distribution was unfortunate, and I 
apologize, but one learns from all experiences and the 1984 posters 
will be out by January 1. A special public thanks goes to Peter 
Goddard and the staff of Kamp Kanawana in Montreal for accepting 
the tremendous task of mailing to every camp. 

Two Press Releases have been written and distributed to the 
national media - including 600 weekly newspapers. A CCA fact 
sheet and copy of the artwork were included with these. Three Press 
Releases have been written and distributed through the provincial 
delegates. Nova Scotia and New Brunswick have both had the Day 
declared by the Ministers involved and Saskatchewan has applied 
for that too. New Brunswick, in fact, has an entire camping week, as 
does Quebec. In Ontario, the Society of Camp Directors will meet 
on April 14 to celebrate, and in Alberta some of the posters are being 
distributed through the school system and a team of speakers has 
been lined up. In B.C., they hope to tie the visit of their Consultant/ 
Advisor, Jack Pearse, in to their radio and TV coverage. Manitoba is 
using local newspapers and radio stations to spread the word, as well 
as camper notices and church announcements. Saskatchewan 
hopes to tie in the promotion of NCD with that of their Conference, 
by using radio and print media announcements. 

Both Nova Scotia and New Brunswick have distributed the Press 
Releases to all camps, and N.S. is getting the support of the 
Minister’s office to do the media work. I think these are good first 
steps, and all involved are to be congratulated. As a volunteer 
organization, one can only expect so much from each person and 
this is a tremendous undertaking. Thanks should go to each dele¬ 
gate for their work and time, on your behalf. 

Here’s to March 21, 1984 - the 2nd Annual National Camping 
Day. We’ve been through the ropes once; we’ve learned a great deal 
and we have a good national team. I am sure it will be an even bigger 
success than this one. 

A special note of appreciation goes to Gary Luthy and Jane 
McCutcheon, two Vice-Presidents who are stepping down this year. 
Both have been personal supporters since I took on this role, and 
have helped create National Camping Day. I’ll miss them. 

I have been keeping in touch with the Pre-Congress delegates, the 
Provincial Presidents, and the CCA Executive since January. They 
are well informed on all aspects of the project, so if you have any 
specific questions, or wish to lend your talents, please contact 
someone from your province. I want to thank all of these people for 
putting up with me, for reading the scads of paper I send, and for 
their encouragement and support. National Camping Day is the 
biggest national project CCA has ever undertaken. It’s been a great 
deal of work, but I feel fortunate indeed to have been in on the birth 
of such a promising event, and for having had the opportunity to 
have met and worked with so many special people. 

Marnie M. Ellis 


PUBLICATIONS COMMITTEE 

The Publications Committee is pleased to report that Legacy to a 
Camper - the story of Mary S. Edgar by Jocelyn Palm is printed and 
available to the public. Jocelyn has donated Legacy to the CCA and 
all proceeds from the book go to the association. Many may have 
already secured a copy at the Congress or through the CCA Publica¬ 
tions Service. 

An editorial committee is preparing the final draft of the CIT 
Manual scheduled for release by May 1, 1983. This practical guide 
designed for use in counsellor-in-training programs will feature 
instructor insert notes. 

The Publications Committee has elected to change the name of 
the Publications Service to the CCA Bookstore, effective September 
1983. 

We have made an effort to increase revenues at conferences by 
sending some titles in bulk as well as having catalogues available. At 
the International Camping Congress we had the use of three exhibit 
spaces. We tried to increase sales by an author signing event, a 
special sale table, notices in the Congress newspaper and the new 
CCA bookmark promoting the “How To” Series. 

We realize the potential of the CCA Publications to raise funds to 
support other CCA Activities, therefore our major objectives for 
1983-84 is to actively seek new opportunities to sell CCA’s own 
publications. 

Finally, we would like to thank Gary Luthy for his assistance as our 
liaison with the CCA Executive and Board. 

Beth Moon, Wendy Wren, Judy Richards 

RESEARCH COMMITTEE 

No report submitted. 


RETAIL SALES TASK FORCE 

This project went into operation with the printing of 500 packages of 
Hasti Notes. Kate Anthony kindly donated two drawings for these 
hasti notes. Seventy-six packages have been sold as of March 1983. 
They will be advertised in the next issue of Canadian Camping and 
be available at publication displays at various conferences. 

Further items will be developed as 1983 progresses. 

Janet Adamson 

STANDARDS TASK FORCE 

The major role of the Standards Task Force this year was to plan and 
operate the National Standards Workshop in Toronto, January 
25-26, 1983. 

Our objectives were two-fold: 

• update the existing comparative analysis of provincial standards 
for organized camping 

• review and document extensively the visitation process vis a vis 
the education component for camps (personal and boards), pro¬ 
vincial governments (legislation affecting camps) and funding 
bodies 

The delegates worked diligently before the Workshop to have the 
provincial comparisons ready so that our time together would be 
most beneficial. 

The Workshop has proposed that CCA/ACC should not accredit 
camps but should promote good camping practices through educa¬ 
tion of camp directors. This, of course, has important implications 
for our future action plan and for provincial camping associations. 
Therefore, we have asked the National Board of Directors to con¬ 
tinue the Standards Task Force review for 18 months and convene 
another National Workshop in 1985 to resolve the need for a 
Standing Committee on Standards. 

Brian Law 


CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 
ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU CANADA 


National Office/Siege Sociale 

1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 
Toronto, Ont. M5M 3Z1 
Phone: (416) 781-4717 

British Columbia Camping Association 

1200 Hornby Street 
Vancouver, B.C. V6Z 1Z2 
Phone: (604) 879-5108 

Alberta Camping Association 

c/o Y.M.C.A. 332 6th Avenue S.W. 

Calgary, Alta. T2P 0R5 
Phone: (403) 269-6156 

Saskatchewan Camping Association 

c/o Saskatchewan YM.C.A. 25-22 Street E. 
Saskatoon, Sask. S7K 0C7 
Phone: (306) 652-7515 ext SCA 

Manitoba Camping Association 

Admin. Centre for Recreation and Sport 
1700 Ellice Avenue 
Winnipeg, Man. R3H 0B1 
Phone: (204) 786-5641 


Ontario Camping Association 

1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 
Toronto, Ont. M5M 3Z1 
Phone: (416) 781-0525 

Association des Camps du Quebec 

1415 est rue Jarry 
Montreal, Que. H2E 2Z7 
Phone: (514) 374-4700 ext 447 

New Brunswick Camping Association 

RO. Box 263 

Moncton, N.B. E1C 8K9 

Phone: (506) 854-3333 ext 269 (lan Fowler) 

Nova Scotia Camping Association 

Box 3243 S. 

Halifax, N.S. B3J 3H5 
Phone: (902) 424-4329 

Newfoundland and Labrador 
Camping Association 

Box 4188 

St. John's, Nfld. A1C 5Z7 



Canada’s forests are in crisis and the future 
depends on dynamic action by all Canadians, 
young and old, participating in public aware¬ 
ness, education, tree planting and conserva¬ 
tion. 

The United Nations, concerned that prati- 
cally all nations are cutting trees faster than 
they are being planted, has initiated a world¬ 
wide tree planting program with the slogan 
“FOR EVERY CHILD ATREE”. 

The Canadian Foundation for World Devel¬ 
opment launched a nationwide campaign to 
motivate every Canadian to plant trees to pre¬ 
serve our heritage of forests and implement 
conservation measures. The enthusiastic re¬ 
sponse from governments at all levels, indus¬ 
tries, educational institutions, religious 
groups, unions, service organizations and in¬ 
dividuals, clearly indicates that there is a gen¬ 
uine concern and a positive motivation to be 
involved. This program supports and comple¬ 
ments all those organizations who now carry 
out effective programs. 

Special thanks is due the Ottawa Board of 
Education for its enthusiastic initiative with a 
plan to involve each of its 54 elementary 


schools in planting 100 trees and each of its 24 
secondary schools in planting 200 trees. 
Every School Board across Canada is chal¬ 
lenged to develop similar creative programs. 
Already several have announced their pro¬ 
grams. Interesting suggestions include plant¬ 
ing trees along highways and municipal 
roads; at cloverleafs; along freeways; in val¬ 
leys, towns and cities. 

In Ontario trees are provided free to schools 
for educational purposes and are available 
through their nearest Ministry of Natural Re¬ 
sources Office. Individual schools or boards 
are requested to submit a project outline with 
their tree application and written approval of 
the owner of the property. Most native Ontario 
tree species of commercial importance are 
available. 

Canadian camps can participate in “For 
Every Child A Tree” with innovative involve¬ 
ment such as planting a tree recognizing 
birthdays, memorials and special occasions. 
Posters and educational materials are avail¬ 
able. 

This is your special invitation to be an ac¬ 
tive participant in this nationwide “Tree Pro¬ 
gram”. It is an on-going program that 
hopefully will achieve a significant profile by 
1985 “The International Year of Youth”. It is 
hoped that a Canadian United Nations Youth 
Parliament can be developed thereby helping 
us to become more sensitive to the needs of 
Third World Countries and the interdepen¬ 
dence of all nations. 

For further information please contact... 
The Canadian Foundation for 
World Development 
2441 Bay view Avenue 
Willowdale, Ontario 
M2L1A5 
416-445-4740 


Canada's 

Birthday 


Don't just 
run it up 
the flagpole. 


Run it 
around the 
block. 



CfiNfiDIfiN CfiMPING 

ADVERTISING RATES 


CANADIAN CAMPING is an official publication of the Canadian Camping Association/Association des Camps du Canada. It is 
mailed to Camp Executives, Camp Owners, and other groups and individuals concerned with camping and outdoor education 
throughout Canada and the U.S.A. 


Issue 

Copy/Advertising 
Closing Date 

Subscriptions 

Mailed 

Rates 

1 

No. of Insertions 

2 3 

4 

Spring 

Feburary 15 

April 1 

Full Page 

500 

900 

1200 

1400 

Summer 

April 15 

June 1 

V2 Page 

300 

550 

750 

900 

Fall 

September 15 

November 1 

V4 Page 

200 

350 

500 

600 

Winter 

December 15 

January 1 

Ve Page 

150 

250 

350 

400 




Vie Page 

100 

175 

240 

300 


CCA/ACC MEMBERS’ CLASSIFIED ADS. 
75 words maximum $65 per insert 


N.B. Printed offset. Typesetting and artwork must be supplied or advertiser will be billed. 

COMMISSIONS: 15% to recognized advertising agencies on space rate. NO DISCOUNT for payment within 30 days. 

ACCOUNTS: Due within 30 days of invoice date. Interest charged on overdue accounts. 

April 1983. 


14 






Fitness Condition 

Canada physique Canada 


promoting fitness 
for all Canadians 


cherche a ameliorer 
la condition physique de 
tous les Canadiens 



Enriching the lives of Canadians 
through fitness 


En enrichissant l'existence des Canadiens 
par une meilleure condition physique 


• developing fitness programs to motivate Canadians to 
experience a healthier, happier lifestyle 

• providing financial support to a wide variety of 
national associations promoting fitness and physical 
activity 

• offering information services and expertise to fitness 
leaders, health professionals and related agencies 


• des programmes sont elabores qui visent a motiver les 
Canadiens a se creer un mode de vie plus sain et plus 
heureux 

• un appui financier est offert a un grand nombre 
dissociations nationales dont l'objectif est de 
promouvoir la condition et 1'activite physiques 

• des services d'information et des conseils sont mis a la 
disposition de moniteurs de condition physique, de 
professionnels de la sante et d'agences connexes 


For further information write /Pour toute mitre information ecrivez a 
Fitness Canada Condition physique Canada 
365 Laurier Ave. West 365-ouest avenue Laurier 
Ottawa K1A 0X6 


i+ 


Government of Canada Gouvernement du Canada 
Fitness and Amateur Sport Condition physique et Sport amateur 


Canada 




Canadian Camping Association 
Association des camps du Canada 


INTERNATIONAL YOUTH YEAR 
LOGO CONTEST 

The Canadian Camping Association, International 
Youth Year Task Force invites all campers and staff to 
assist in the designing of a logo for the 1985 International 
Youth Year. 

Encourage your campers and staff to participate in the 
event to launch CCA activities for 1985. 

Contest Rules - 

(A) Logo must depict camping and youth 

(B) Logo submissions shall measure 5” x 5” (12.7 cm x 
12.7 cm) 

(C) Maximum of 2 colors allowed in logo including 
background color 

(D) All wording shall be bilingual 

Deadline for submissions - all entries should be for¬ 
warded to: 

Canadian Camping Association 
1806 Avenue Road 
Suite 2 

Toronto, Ontario 
M5M 3Z1 

Entries must be received at the CCA office by Septem¬ 
ber 15,1983. 

PRIZES - Appropriate prizes will be awarded to the top 
three entries in the contest. 

All entries shall become the property of the Canadian 
Camping Association and will not be returned. 


CONCOURS DU SIGLE L’ANNEE 
INTERNATIONAL DE LA 
JEUNESSE 

Le groupe de travail de 1’Association des camps du 
Canada pour l’Annee internationale de la jeunesse lance 
une invitation a tous les campeurs et membres du per¬ 
sonnel a soumettre leurs suggestions taut qu’a une sigle 
pour l’Annee internationale de la jeunesse, 1985. 

Encouragez vos campeurs et votre personnel a participer 
a cet evenement afin de lancer les activites de l’ACC 
pour 1985. 

Reglements du concours - 

(A) Le sigle devra faire ressortir les camps et la jeunesse; 

(B) Les sigles soumis devront etre d’une dimension de 
5” x 5” (12.7 cm x 12.7 cm) 

(C) Maximum de deux (2) couleurs, incluant la couleur 
de fond; 

(D) Les inscriptions devront etre bilingues. 

Faire parvenir a: 

L’Association des Camps du Canada 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 

Les entrees devront parvenir au bureau de 1’ACC pour le 
15 septembre 1983. 

Prix: Des prix seront decernes aux trois (3) meilleures 
presentations. 

Tous les soumissions demeureront propriete de 
l’Association des Camps du Canada et ne seront pas 
retoumees. 


16 



Dispose of camp food 
service problems with 

royal Chinet 

disposable plates and bowls 

Strong, attractive Royal CHINET food service products help you ... 

• DISPOSE OF DISHWASHING COSTS 

Cut the expense of installing, maintaining and manning equipment 
that is used only a few months of the year. 

• DISPOSE OF BREAKAGE 

Save yourself the trouble and expense of buying matching replace¬ 
ments for pieces that crack, chip and shatter. 

• DISPOSE OF FOOD WASTE 

You get exact portion control with Royal CHINET’s wide range of 
sizes in regular and compartmented designs. 

• DISPOSE OF GERM COLLECTORS 

Royal CHINET products are sterilized when manufactured and 
packaged. And there’s never a germ-collecting chip, crack or 
poorly washed dish. 

• DISPOSE OF IRRITATING NOISE 

Disposable service is silent service. Meals are relaxed without the 
clatter and crash of china or metal. 

ENVIRONMENTAL ADVANTAGES, TOO 

All good campers want to protect the environment. Royal CHINET prod¬ 
ucts are manufactured from a renewable resource. What’s more, they’re 
biodegradable . . . molded of natural wood fibres that burn readily with 
little smoke. Even if discarded out-of-doors, Royal CHINET quickly de¬ 
composes in the earth. 

Get the full particulars now. Mail this coupon today. 



CKF Inc 

HANTSPORT, NOVA SCOTIA, BOP 1PO 

Please provide me with details of the variety and costs of Royal 
CHINET food service products. 

NAME 

COMPANY or CAMP 
ADDRESS 



17 






























Canadian camping association 
association dcs camps da Canada 

suite 2 teo6 avenue road 
TORONTO ONTARIO MSM 321 

VOL. 35, NO. 2 
SUMMER 1983 
ISSN 008-3119 


SUPPORT AMATEUR 
SPORT 

ENCOURAGEZ LE SPORT 
AMATEUR 



3292 

MR. T. STATTEN 

RLACKSTOCK ON 
l. OB 1 B 0 


SUBSCRIPTION RfSTE SPECIAL!!! 

As we endeavour to continually upgrade our magazine content, we are finding more and more material suitable to Camp Staff. Many counsellors 
are requesting reprints of articles and/or entire issues. We would like to encourage Camp Directors to enter full subscriptions to Canadian Camping 
for their Staff and Senior Staff who are not already members of your provincial camping association. We feel it will be an investment well worth it 
and to this end we would like to offer the following special rate: 

After the first two full-rate subscriptions at $6.00/year, we will offer any additional one-year subscriptions at only $4.00/year. Please act now and 
save! Subscribe your staff to Canadian Camping and receive four issues a ye/ar: interviews, editorials, advice column, group dynamics exercises, 
articles and much, much more.. .your staff will thank you, your campers will benefit! 


PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY 

Name 


PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY 

Name 


Address 



Address 



Citv 

Province 

Postal Code 

Citv 

Province 

Postal Code 


PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY 


PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY 


Name 



Name 



Address 



Address 



City 

Province 

Postal Code 

Citv 

Province 

Postal Code 


PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY 


PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY 


Name 



Name 



Address 



Address 



City 

Province 

Postal Code 

Citv 

Province 

Postal Code 


PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY 


PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY 


Name 



Name 



Address 



Address 



City 

Province 

Postal Code 

Citv 

Province 

Postal Code 



Enclosed, please find a cheque for $_ 
Canadian Camping Association. 


_.00 to cover. 


. annual subscriptions to Canadian Camping. Make cheques payable to the 


18 





















































