


can 


cam 


i 


jan. edition 1975 


OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION / L'ASSOCl ATION DES CAMPS DU CANADA 











CANADIAN CAMPING 
ASSOCIATION 

Suite 203, 102 Eglinton Avenue East 
Toronto, Ontario M4P 1E1, Canada 


table of contents-sommaire 

Vol. 27 No. 2 

November Edition 1975 edition de janvier 


Executive: 

President: 

Vice President: 

Secretary: 

Treasurer: 


John R. Latimer 
Ron Johnstone 
Jay Haddad 
Bryan Graham 


VIEWPOINT. 

by John R. Latimer 


NATIONAL CODE OF ETHICS 
by Vaf Willis 


3 


4 



IF I WERE TO SEND MY CHILD TO CAMP 

by Jack Pearse 


5 


"CANADIAN CAMPING" 
PERSONNEL 


Managing Director: 
Editor: 

Advertising Manager: 
Circulation Manager: 
Directory Chairman: 


Jocelyn Palm 
Helen E. Stewart 
Doug Dent 
Mary Pat Bradbury 
Peter Gilbert 


"Canadian Camping" is the official publica¬ 
tion of the Canadian Camping Association. 
Published four times a year. 


WINTER CAMPING SKILLS 
by Mors Kochanski 

FOODTACTICS. 

by joan Fielden 

THE OUTDOORSMAN 

by Larry R. Johnston 

STANDARDS FOR CAMPS 
by John Ha sell 


10 


16 


19 


20 


Subscription rates: 

$5.00 - 1 year; $12.00 - 3 years 
Single copy - $1.50 
CCA membership includes subscription 


DES PENSES . Outside Back Cover 

Cover Couverture 

designed by Violet A. Cat!in, Graphics , Typesetter for Canadian Camping 


PROVINCIAL OFFICES 


BUREAUX PROVINCIAL^ 


B.C. Camping Association 
633 W. 8th Avenue, Vancouver, B.C. 
(Rick Ryan, President) 


Alberta Camping Association 
332 - 6th Avenue S.W. 
Calgary, Alta. T2P 0R1 
(Garry Cragg, President) 

Saskatchewan Camping Association 
P.0. Box 823 
Regina, Saskatchewan 
(Margaret Pezderic, President) 


Manitoba Camping Association 
385 St. Mary Ave. 
Winnipeg, Man. R3C ON 1 
(Bob Douglas, President) 


Ontario Camping Association 
102 Eglinton Avenue East, Suite 203 
Toronto, Ont. M4P 1E1 
(Jack Pearse, President) 

L 'association des camps du Quebec 
and 

Quebec Camping Association 
952 Cherrier St., Montreal, Quebec 
(Abbe Rosaire Corbin, president) 

English Section 
2233 Belgrave Ave. 

Montreal, Que. H4A 2L9 
(Val Willis, President) 

Section frangaise 

952 rue Cherrier, Montreal, Quebec 
(Abbe Robert Maisonneuve, president) 


New Brunswick Camping Association 
Box 5, Bath, New Brunswick 
(Rev. Philip Giberson, President) 

Nova Scotia Camping Association 
Box 3243S, Halifax, Nova Scotia B3J 3H5 
(Rev. David Boston, President) 

Newfoundland & Labrador 
Camping Association 
Box 4188, St. John's, Newfoundland 
(Barbara Taylor, President) 


REPRODUCTION. IN ANY FORM. OF 
MATERIAL IN “CANADIAN CAMPING" 
MUST HAVE WRITTEN PERMISSION OF 
THE CANADIAN CAMPING 
ASSOCIATION 














viewpoint/point de vue 



Wisdom is defined as the knowledge of what is true or right, coupled 
with judgement as to action. Every day across this country, people 
endeavour to use wisdom in the broad area of “investment” . . . 
investment in stocks and bonds . . . investment in beauty and health 
aids . . . investment in art, antiques and books. Parents of close to 
400,000 children from throughout the world make a further invest¬ 
ment on behalf of their children in organized summer camps. 

It therefore becomes the responsibility of Camp Directors and 
Leaders to act with wisdom in determining what is true and what is 
right. A camping experience for a child can be tremendously influen¬ 
tial ... for good or bad! Camping as we know it in North America is 
unique, for nowhere else in the world do children leave their parents 
for an extended period of time to live in the out-of-doors under the 
guidance of Counsellors and Leaders. It becomes very true, therefore, 
that if the investment in our children is to return dividends which 
will benefit our future Society, we must all ensure that those Coun¬ 
sellors and Leaders must be well trained,sympathetic, understanding 
and above all, capable of giving and receiving respect, friendship 
and love. 

A well trained Counsellor must be one who has a certain know¬ 
ledge of children ... a knowledge tempered with an awareness of 
the world of a child, as seen through a child’s eyes . . . and not 
through ours. Teaching is an important part of a Counsellor’s role . . . 
teaching swimming, canoeing, sailing, nature awareness. The well 
trained Counsellor, just as the well trained teacher in a school, must 
be a person who can maintain in each child that magic spark for 
learning . . . the excitement of discovering something new, and the 
gratifying sensation of achieving. The well trained Counsellor in 
Camp will be the person who does not crush individuality and 
differences, exerting every effort to fight Society’s pressures to 
categorize and classify young minds and souls into pre-cast boxes. 

The Camp Counsellor sees the camper during his ups and 
downs ... his highs and lows. He shares the fears, the joys, the hurt 
and the excitement. And it is this sharing which makes Camp so 
completely unique. Teachers, parents, neighbourhood and cottage 
friends, church-workers know this sharing - but only on a part-time 
basis. At Camp it is a total experience. For the young Counsellor, 
not yet a total part of the adult world, and a human not even sure 
of his own destiny, can share this growing up with a child ... as can 
very few other people. What an awesome responsibility for a Coun¬ 
sellor! What an awesome responsibility for a Camp Director! 

In addition to being well trained, the Counsellor who is primarily 
responsible for our investment of to-day, must be sympathetic and 
understanding. Cliches? Trite? . . . perhaps the words are trite, but 
they are the tools ... the very essence of leadership with wisdom. 

If the stomach doesn’t churn with excitement when a child 
suddenly takes his first few strokes in deep water, there is no sym¬ 
pathy. If the sadness is not seen in a child’s eyes when a Counsellor 
is too busy to keep a promise, there is no understanding. There is no 
sympathy in a Counsellor if a tear can’t well up in his eyes when he 
knows a child must return to a home filled with conflict, pain and 
hatred. Understanding is lacking when a Counsellor sets goals and 
challenges beyond the reach of a child, or when he cannot feel how 
desperately a child wants to be a part of a group. 

Above all, a young man or woman who is a wise Counsellor must 
be capable of giving. Giving isn’t just done at certain times of the 
day, or in specific programme areas . . . giving is an all-day and 
everyplace thing. The giving Counsellor continues to share himself 
even when he is over-tired and has a headache. He gives of himself 


La Sagesse est la connaissance du vrai ou du bien, jumelee a un juge- 
ment sur dans I’action. Chaque jour, au pays, les gens s’efforcent 
d’utiliser la Sagesse dans les "investissements” auxquels ils s’adon- 
nent . . . investissements dans les entreprises et les obligations . . . 
investissements pour conserver la beaute et la sante . . . investisse¬ 
ments dans les objets d’art, les antiquites et les livres. Les parents de 
plus de 400,000 enfants a travers le monde investissenl dans les 
camps de vacances pour leurs enfants. 

C’est done la responsabilite dcs Directeurs de camps et de leurs 
equipes d’animation de discerner avec Sagesse le vrai et le bien. Une 
experience de camp peut influencer profondement un enfant . . . en 
bien ou en mal! Les camps de vacances tels qu’ils existent en Ame- 
rique du Nord sont uniques car nulle part aillcurs au monde pouvons- 
nous voir les enfants quitter leurs parents pendant une periode de 
temps prolongee pour vivre une experience de Plein Air sous la 
direction de rcsponsables et de moniteurs. C’est done clair: pour que 
cet investissement en faveur de nos enfants produise des dividendes 
qui profiteront a notre societe de demain, nous devons nous assurer 
que ces moniteurs et ces rcsponsables soient bien formes, sympa- 
thiques, comprehensifs et surtout capables de donner et de recevoir 
respect, amitie et amour. 

Un moniteur bien forme est celui qui a une certaine connaissance 
des enfants . . . une connaissance temperee par I’intuition de ce 
qu’est le monde d’un enfant vu par lui-meme . . . et non pas tel que 
pergu par nous. L’cnseignement est un element important du role du 
moniteur . . . enseignement de la natation, du canotage, de la voile, 
de I’eveil a la nature. Le moniteur bien forme, a I’instar du bon pro- 
fesseur qui travaille a I’ecole, doit pouvoir entretenir dans le coeur 
de chaque enfant le desir spontane d’apprendre . . . I’emotion res- 
sentie a decouvrir I’inconnu et la satisfaction de realiser des projets. 
Au camp, le moniteur bien forme saura ne pas niveler ce qui diffe- 
rencie chaque enfant et fera I’impossible pour combattre les pressions 
excrcces par la Societe pour classifier et emboiter I’intelligence et 
I’esprit des jeunes dans des categories predeterminees. 

Au camp, le moniteur observe la campeur dans ses hauts et ses 
bas ... ses emballcments et ses moments depresses. II partage ses 
craintes, ses joies, ses peines et son exaltation. C’est ce partage qui 
rend I’experience de Camp aussi speciale. Les professeurs, les parents, 
les amis du voisinage a la ville ou a la campagne, les benevoles dans 
les paroisses connaissent ce partage . . . mais il n’occupe pour eux 
qu’une partie de leur temps. Au camp, c’est une experience totale. 
En effet, le jeune moniteur, qui n’est pas encore totalement integre 
au monde des adultes et qui au plan humain n’est pas encore sur de 
sa propre destinee, peut partager ce processus de croissance avec un 
enfant . . . mieux que personne d’autre. Quelle lourde responsabilite 
pour le moniteur! Quelle lourde responsabilite pour un Directcur 
de camp! 

En plus d’etre bien forme, le moniteur qui le premier est respon- 
sable de notre investissement d’aujourd’hui doit etre sympathique 
et comprehensif. Est-ce que ce sont la des cliches? des mots uses? ... 
les mots sont peut-etre uses mais ils sont les instruments.. . I’essence 
meme de la Sagesse et du leadership. 

Si on n’est pas bouleverse d’emotion quand soudainement un en¬ 
fant nage pour la premiere fois en eaux profondes, on n’est pas sym¬ 
pathique. Si on ne discerne pas la tristesse dans le regard d’un 
enfant quand son moniteur est trop occupe pour honorer une 
promesse, on n’est pas comprehensif. II n’y a pas de sympathie chez 
un moniteur qui n’a pas envie de pleurer a la pensec qu’un de ses 
enfants doit retourner dans un foyer ou regnent les conflits, la dou- 
leur et la haine. Ilya manque de comprehension lorsqu’un moniteur 
propose des buts et des defis qui depassent les capacites d’un enfant 
ou lorsqu’il ne per^oit pas le besoin profond d’un enfant d’etre 
accepte dans un groupe. 

Par dessus tout, le jeune homme qui est un sage moniteur ou la 
jeune fille qui est une sage monitrice doivent pouvoir donner. On ne 
donne pas seulement a certains moments de ia journee ou a I’occa- 
sion d’un programme particulier. Donner de soi est une affaire qui 


3 


when he knows he must continue to lead and influence children, 
even though he’s just broken up with his girlfriend ... or finds he’s 
failed his year at school. It’s easy to give when things are going 
well . . . but giving is real when the world itself looks bleak, miser¬ 
able and untrusting. 

And how can a person be a real Counsellor. . . and a real leader 
without being able to love? The world is filled with people who have 
had the ability to love crushed from their souls. Only hate and 
despair remains. They’ve made the world revolve around thcm- 
serves . . . seeking glory, power and artificial fame. Love is so many 
things . . . it’s sharing, it’s crying . . . it’s "fair” punishment . . . it’s 
a pat on the back, and it’s constructive criticism. Love is building 
up and not tearing down . . . it’s touching and holding . . . it’s work¬ 
ing hard together. Love is being there when you’re needed! 

And what about our investment for tomorrow? Parents must 
invest, with wisdom, in seeking out the best Camp and the best 
Director for their children. And Directors, with wisdom, must seek 
out the best Counsellors and Leaders for their Camps. Otherwise, 
we are being unfair to ourselves . . . for to-day's Campers will be 
leading us tomorrow! 

John R. Latimer, President, Canadian Camping Association 


dure toute la journee et qui se fait partout. Le moniteurqui donne 
de lui-meme continue de le faire meme s’il est tres fatigue ou s’il a 
mal a la tete. II donne de lui-meme quand il doit continuer de guider 
et d’influencer les jeunes meme s’il vient de rompre avec son amie . . . 
ou decouvre qu’il a rate son annee scolaire. C’est facile de donner 
quand tout va bien . . . mais le don de soi est reel et vrai quand il est 
exerce au moment ou son monde semble sombre, desole et ingrat. 

Enfin comment etre un veritable moniteur . . . et un reel leader 
si Ton ne peut aimer? Le monde est plein de gens dont la capacite 
d’aimer est disparue de leur coeur pour faire place a la haine et au 
desespoir. I Is sont devenus le centre de leur monde . . . ne cherchant 
que la gloire, le pouvoir et une renommee factice. L’amour c’est tant 
de choses . . . c’est partager . . . c’est pleurer. . . c’est une sanction 
equitable . . . c’est une tape sur I’epaule . . . c’est une critique posi¬ 
tive. Aimer e’est batir et non detruire . . . c’est toucher et suppor¬ 
ter .. . c’est travailler dur ensemble. Aimer c’est etre la quand on a 
besoin ne nous! 

Que dire de notre investissement de demain? Les parents doivent 
investir avec Sagesse, cherchant le meilleur camp et le meilleur 
Directeur pour leurs enfants. Et les Directeurs, avec Sagesse, doivent 
rechercher les meilleurs moniteurs et les mcilleurs leaders pour leur 
camp. Autrement nous ne nous faisons pas justice . . . car les cam- 
peurs d'aujourd'hui seront nos leaders de demain. 

Traduction par Abbe Paul Belanger 


National Code of Ethics 

Code d'Ethiqe National 



The members of the C.C.A. undertake to adhere to the 

following principles: 

1. Our energies are directed to furthering the growth and 
quality of life of youth and adults through education 
and recreation in the camping field. 

2. We undertake to conduct ourselves in such a manner so 
as to gain the esteem and confidence of other camping 
personnel, as well as to respect the dignity of our 
associates. 

3. We will familiarize ourselves with and comply with all 
government laws and regulations governing the operation 
of camps. 

4. We shall adhere to the Constitution and By-laws of the 
Canadian Camping Association. 

5. We will strive to maintain and improve upon the stan¬ 
dards for camping developed by the Association. 

6. We shall concern outsclves with the welfare of our 
natural environment and encourage others to do likewise. 

7. Our advertising and publicity shall avoid misleading 
statements and superlatives. 

8. We shall refer to the Executive Committee any unethical 
practices which could be detrimental to the integrity and 
dignity of the Association. 

9. We will help to make the public aware of the Association 
and its constant striving towards professionalism in the 
organized camping movement throughout Canada. 


Val Willis 

Chairman , National Ethics Committee 

Les membres de LA.C.C. s'engagent a se conformer aux 

principes suivants: 

1. Employer nos energies a favoriser la croissance et la 
qualite de la vie des jeunes et des adultes par 1’education 
et la recreation dans les camps de vacances. 

2. S’engager a agir de maniere a gagner l’estime et la con- 
fiance des autres responsables de camps de meme qu’a 
respecter la dignite de nos collaborateurs. 

3. Se familiariser avec les lois et reglements gouvernemen- 
taux regissant Toperation des camps et s’y soumettre. 

4. Se conformer a la Constitution et aux Reglements de 
TAssociation des Camps du Canada. 

5. S’efforcer de mettre en pratique les normes pour les 
camps elaborees par TAssociation et meme de travailler 
a les ameliorer. 

6. Se soucier de la qualite de notre environnement naturel 
et encourager les autres a faire de meme. 

7. Dans notre reclame et notre publicite, eviter les declara¬ 
tions trompeuses et les superlatifs. 

8. Referer au Comite executif toute pratique contraire a 
l’ethique qui pourrait etre nuisible a l’integrite et a la 
dignite de TAssociation. 

9. Aider a renseigner le public sur l’Association et sur ses 
efforts constants pour rehausser le niveau professional 
de ses membres, les responsables de camps, a travers le 
Canada. 


4 






*1 eowie tend 
ntcf cAtld 

fo cantfi. . . , 



Sc jetaU fttun envoyer 
*kok e*tfcutt 

cut CtUftfc .... 


—par Jack Pearse 

President de VAssociation des Camps de POntario 


—by Jack Pearse 

President , Ontario Camping Association 

The material for this article has been gathered from many 
sources - camp directors, camp counsellors, parents of 
campers, discussions with campers over the years, books on 
camping, standards programs in camping and principally, 
from the Ontario Camping Association Directory of Camp 
Members and Associates the section entitled “//? Choosing 
your Child's Camp be Sure .” 

In saying, “If I were to send my child to camp . . I 
must hope that my child wants to go to camp and perhaps, 
if I present the opportunity to him in a logical and appealing 
way he will respond in a positive and enthusiastic fashion. 
Following our thorough investigation however, if he does 
not want to go to camp, I will not force him to go. 

Many things are available for children to do in the sum¬ 
mer. There are cottages, farms to visit, exchanges with 
children from other provinces or countries, great oppor¬ 
tunities for travel either alone, with friends or with family, 
visiting relatives in other parts of the world, to mention 
a few. 

It has been said that camping is North America’s one 
contribution to the field of Education. Whether or not we 
agree with this, we can acknowledge that, at camp, we have 
the whole child for a sustained period of time in an atmos¬ 
phere which facilitates learning under qualified, dedicated 
leadership. 

Therefore, let us begin by removing the “if’. I would 
send my child to camp because, in my opinion, no other 
vacation situation can offer the positive values of resident 
camping - where a child can learn resourcefulness, skills, 
independence, getting along with others, sharing - away 
from the protection of the family. 

Choose from a Number of Camps 

As a first step, my child and I would select a few camps 
that fit our needs, fit our vacation schedule, fit our pocket 
book, fit our objectives. We would send for their descriptive 
camp literature, so that we could read it over. Addresses for 
these camps are available at the Camping Association offices 
of each Province and, once we have received the camp bro¬ 
chure from several camps, we would, then, embark on a 
question and answer period. 

Facilities and Equipment are Important 

Camp facilities and equipment are very dependent on 
other factors such as program, type of camp, funds avail¬ 
able, physical setting. Most of all, facilities and equipment 
are dependent on the philosophy of the sponsoring body. 

After discussing these things with my child, we would 
have some basic decisions to make, such as - does he want 
to live in cabins or in tents or in both? In single units or in 
dormitory? Does he want beds or bunks — springs and 


Le materiel reuni pour cet article provient de diverses 
sources - Directeurs de Camps, moniteurs, parents de cam- 
peurs, discussions avec les campeurs au fil des ans, livres se 
rapportant aux camps, programmes standards de camping; 
mais la source principale est la section de 1’Annuaire des 
Membres et Associes de Camps de I’Association desCamps 
de 1’Ontario, intitulee “//? Choosing your Child's Camp Be 
Sure .”. 

En disant “Si j’etais pour Envoyer mon Enfant au 
Camp . . je dois preincrement esperer que celui-ci 
veuilles bien y aller et que peut-etre, si 1’opportunite lui est 
presentee d’une maniere logique et attirante, il y repondra 
d’une fa^on positive et enthousiaste. D'autre part, s'il 
s’avere apres une investigation minutieuse, que mon enfant 
ne veuille pas aller au camp, je ne l’y forcerai pas. 

De nombreuses possibilites sont offertesal’enfant durant 
Fete. Ilya les chalets, les fermes a visiter, les echanges avec 
des enfants d’autres provinces ou pays, les merveilleuses 
occasions de voyager soit seul, avec quelques amis ou en 
famille ainsi que les visites aux parents dcmeurant dans 
d’autres parties du monde, pour ne mentionner que quel¬ 
ques examples. 

II a ete dit que les camps sont une contribution de 
l’Amerique du Nord du domaine de l’Education. Que Ton 
en convienne ou non, il faut reconnaitre qu’au camp, nous 
avons l’enfant entier pour une periode de temps soutenue 
dans une atmosphere facilitant son developpement sous une 
conduite dediee et qualifiee. 

Par consequent, commen^ons par enlever le “Si”. J'em 
verrais mon enfant au camp parce qu’a mon avis, nulle 
autre situation ne peut offrir durant les vacances les valeurs 
positives d’un camp residentiel - ou l’enfant peut apprendre 
de nouvelles techniques d’habilete, decouvrir les ressources 
qu’il possede, developper un esprit d’independance, d’en- 
tente et de partage avec son prochain - tout cela, hors de la 
protection familiale. 

Choisir parmi plusieurs Camps 

En premier lieu, mon enfant et moi choisirions une serie 
de camps qui repondent a nos besoins conviennent a notre 
calendrier de vacances, a nos moyens financiers ainsi qu’a 
nos objectifs. Les adresses des differents camps sont dis- 
ponibles aux Bureaux de l’Association des Camps de chaque 
Province. Apres avoir re$u les divers pamphlets et brochures, 
nous procederions a une periode de questions et reponses. 
Accommodations et Equipement sont Importants 

Les accommodations et Fequipement du camp sont de¬ 
pendants de plusieurs facteurs, tels la programmation du 
camp, le type de camp, les fonds disponibles et l’arrange- 
ment physique du camp. Plus que tout, l’accommodation 
et Fequipement dependent de la philosophic de Forganisa- 
tion supportant le camp. 

Apres avoir discute de ces facteurs avec mon enfant, 
nous ferions le point sur quelques conditions de vie telles 
que — desire-t-il vivre dans une cabine, sous la tente ou 


5 




mattresses, canvas cots or spruce boughs? Does he want 
indoor, outdoor or no plumbing? What qre the advantages 
and disadvantages of being near to or far from civilization? 
The layout of buildings, waterfront and campsite should be 
done with the camper’s health and safety as the foremost 
consideration. 

You can tell a lot about a camp by the kinds of facilities 
and equipment in the camp. For instance, if there are a 
dozen power boats, six dozen pairs of water skis and one 
leaky canoe, that should tell you something about the water¬ 
front program. If the horseback riding stables are in better 
shape than the camper cabins, that ought to tell you 
something. 

Program is More Important 

Often, the things remembered most by campers are not 
the facilities and equipment, or even the food, but programs 
they enjoyed. You can get along with that leaky canoe, if 
the program is good. 

In his book, “Managing the Y.M.C.A. Camp", John Ledlie 
treats camp program this way - 

The program of camping consists of all the activities, 
relationships, interactions, and experiences that enter 
into the life of the group. It is everything that goes on in 
camp — every tiling that happens to campers. It is playing 
and working together, making plans, accepting responsi¬ 
bility, carrying out decisions. It is sleeping in the open, 
hiking, paddling canoes, working at campcraft, telling 
stories, and singing songs around a campfire. It is wor¬ 
shipping God in an outdoor chapel. This conception of 
camping lifts it above a schedule of activities as ends in 
themselves and places emphasis upon the process through 
which the objectives of camping are most likely to be 
achieved. 

I like a camp that is camper-centred rather than activity- 
centred, where it is important what is happening to the 
child and where the activity is incidental to the camper’s 
personal growth. A Camp Director said to me, one time, 
“We don’t teach the reef knot, we teach the camper.” 

I like a camp where there is a balance between large 
group and small group activity, where there is a balance 
between things that are done in groups and tilings that can 
be done by the individual. 

I like a camp where program is developed in waterfront, 
woodsmanship, out-tripping and nature lore activities. 

I like a camp where staff can be creative and initiate pro¬ 
grams, but where campers can select some programs, too, 
therefore utilizing their creativity and imagination. 

1 like to remember that children need vacations as well 
as adults, so I think children ought not to be pushed into 
constant, frantic, regimented activity. On the other hand, I 
wouldn’t want my child to be unsupervised from a health 
and safety point of view. Sometimes, camps have so-called 
“unstructured” programs. Let us hope it is not because staff 
are lazy, unskilled and unresourceful and the program is 
“unstructured” because the staff cannot do anything else. 

I guess what we are really looking for in a camp program 
was described by a parent at one camp as “organized free¬ 
dom”. He said, “This camp has organized freedom and 
that’s great.” He meant that campers were free to choose 
their own programs, to show initiative, to be creative and 
yet be under the guidance of strong, positive leadership, 
what a great idea - organized freedom! 

Health and Safety are Even More Important 

Most camps have a medical staff, a rest period each day, 


essayer une combiner les deux? Veut-il dormir dans une 
chambre seule ou dans un dortoir, dans un lit ou une ban¬ 
quette, sur un matelas a ressorts, une couchette en grosse 
toile ou sur des branches de sapin? Exiges-t-il un systeme de 
plomberie interieure, exterieure ou inexistant? 

Quels sont les avantages d’un camp situe pres ou eloigne 
de la civilization? Le terrain, la disposition des batiments et 
les abords de l’eau sont-ils consus en vue de la sante et 
securite du campeur? 

Les accommodations et equipements nousen disent beau- 
coup sur un camp. La presence d’une douzaine de bateaux 
a moteur, de six douzaines de skis nautiques et d’un unique 
canot, prenant l’eau, nous renseigne par example sur le pro¬ 
gramme aquatique. De la meme maniere, le fait que les 
ecuries soient en meilleure condition que les cabines des 
campeurs devrait nous dire quelque chose. 

La Frogrammation est Plus Importante 

Dans bien des cas, les impressions retenues par les cam¬ 
peurs ne seront pas les diverses accommodations et equipe- 
ment, ou meme la nourriture, mais plutot les programmes 
qu’ils auront aimes. On peut toujours s’arranger d’un canot 
qui prend l’eau s’il fait partie d’un excellent programme. 

Dans son livre “Managing the Y.M.C.A. Camp" John 
Ledlie entrevoit la programmation d’un camp de la maniere 
suivante - 

La programmation d’un camp est constitute de toutes 
activites, interactions et experiences qui font partie inte- 
grante delavie de groupe. C’est l’ensemble de tout ce qui 
se passe au camp — tout ce qui concerne le campeur. 
C’est joueret travailler ensemble, faire des projets, accep¬ 
ter des responsabilites, mettre en pratique ses decisions. 
C’est dormir au grand air, partir en excursion, avironner 
en canot, travailler sur ses techniques de camping, racon- 
ter des histoires et chanter autout du feu de camp. C’est 
rendre un culte a Dieu dans une chapelle exterieure. 
Cette conception d’un camp renferme plus qu’un simple 
ensemble d’activites en soi, elle porte l’accent sur le pro¬ 
cessus par lequel les objectifs du camp seront realises. 
J’aime un camp qui centre ses efforts sur le campeur et 
non sur les activites, ou ce qui arrive a l’enfant est toujours 
important et ou les activites organisees sont inseparables du 
developpement personnel de celui-ce.Un Directeur de camp 
m’a dit un jour, “Nous n’enseignons pas le noeud plat, nous 
enseignons a l’enfant”. 

J’aime un camp ou existe un equilibre entre les activites 
con^ues pour des groupes de larges dimensions autant que 
pour ceux de petites dimensions; un camp ou on trouve un 
juste milieu entre les choses que Ton peut faire en groupe et 
celles pouvant etre entreprises individuellement. 

J’aime un camp oil la programmation se divise en activi¬ 
tes aquatiques, activites enseignant des techniques de cam¬ 
ping, la science de la nature et les excursions en foret. 

J’aime un camp oil le personnel peut exercer de l’initia- 
tive et de la creativite et oil les campeurs se voient offerts 
une gamme etendue de programmes au travers desquels ils 
pourront eux aussi developper leur initiative et leur imagina¬ 
tion. 

J’aime que 1’on garde en memoire que les enfants one 
besoin de vacances au meme titre que les adultes. Ils ne 
doivent pas etre constamment contraints a participer a des 
activites frenetiques et regimentees. D’autre part, je ne vou- 
drais pas voir mon enfant demeurer sans aucune surveillance 
en ce qui a rapport a sa securite et a sa sante. Certains camps 
offrent des programmes “non-structures”. Esperons que la 
cause de ces programmes ne gise pas dans un personnel 
paresseux, sans ressources et connaissances pratiques. Espe¬ 
rons que le programme ne soit pas “non-structure” pour la 
simple raison que le personnel ne peut rien produire de 
constructif. 

Je crois que le programme que je recherche, a ete un 
jour decrit par un parent, comme etant une “liberte organi- 


6 



a health check on each camper and staff before camp, a 
health centre on the campsite where campers may visit at 
regular times or in case of emergency. 

If I were to send my child to camp, I would like it to be 
a camp where there is someone in charge of tablesetting in 
the dining hall and the cleanliness of the campers and the 
cabins so that the camp’s health practices are aimed at pre¬ 
ventive rather than curative measures. It is a good idea for 
the menus to be checked by a qualified dietitian, for the 
milk to be supplied by a quality-inspected dairy, for the 
drinking and swimming water to be tested and the camp 
inspected by the Provincial Health authorities, for the camp 
to adhere to the minimum standards set by the Provincial 
Camping Association in leadership, program, facilities and 
equipment, health and safety, transportation, food service, 
accommodation, campsite layout, business practice. 

A camp should have emergency procedure for the water¬ 
front and in case of fire. Everyone in camp should know 
where to go, what to do, when and why. Every staff should 
be able to administer the direct method of artificial respira¬ 
tion. Every camper should be instructed in artificial respira¬ 
tion. The camp medical staff should write an explanatory 
letter to parents when their child is confined to the Health 
Centre overnight. The camp medical staff should check 
campers for health each day and not wait until the health 
problem comes to them. 

Determining safety measures is really difficult because 
we want camp to be fun and adventurous, but not danger¬ 
ous. We want campers to have freedom, but they must be 
protected. So, a camp will have to cope with natural 
hazards - poison ivy, poisonous snakes, cliffs, sudden drop- 
offs at the waterfront, currents in the water, excessive heat, 
rain or cold. There should be program safeguards at the 
waterfront, the archery range, on the nature trails, in the 
sports area, on trips away from camp. 

Leadership is Most Important 

The value of the camp experience to the child depends, 
in large part, on the personal qualifications, experience and 
training of the camp staff. I would like to meet the Camp 
Director. I would like to find out the kind of person he is - 
not the kind of person he says he is in the camp brochure - 
but the kind of person he really is. What are his objectives? 
What motivates him in camping? What is the purpose of 
camp? 

How is the camp staff selected? Is there a leadership 
training program? What do the trainees learn? Skills? 
Philosophy? Leadership techniques? Some of each? 

In selecting staff, I hope the camp will be interested in 
their camping skills because, if staff have skills, it will be 
easier to lead children into camp programs. In selecting 
staff, I hope the camp will be more interested in attitude. 
What do the staff feel about camp? About its philosophy? 
How do they treat campers? How do they get along with 
fellow staff? Are their lives guided by principles or limits? I 
hope the Camp Director would operate on the premise that 
no one who is in a supervisory role would expect anyone to 
do anything he is not prepared to do himself. As a good 
rule of thumb, a camp should have one staff for every three 
campers. 

Parental Participation 

In order for a camper to have a complete experience at 
camp, it is essential for the parent to participate fully and 
actively in that experience — in preparation for camp, 
while the child is away at camp and between camp seasons. 


see”. Ses mots exacts furent: “Ce camp possede une liberte 
organisee, et c’est merveilleux!” II voulait dire que les cam- 
peurs etaient fibres de decider de leurs activites, de faire 
preuve d’initiative et d’etre creatifs sous une direction sure 
et positive. Quelle magnifique idee — liberte organisee! 

Sante et Securite sont Encore Plus Importants 

La majorite des camps possede un personnel medical, 
une periode de repos quotidienne et requiere un certificat 
de sante de ohaque campeur et moniteur avant leur arrivee. 
Ils sont aussi un centre de sante situe sur le camp, ou les en- 
fants peuvent se rendre soit regulierement, soit en cas 
d’urgence. 

Si j’etais pour envoyer mon enfant au camp, je voudrais 
que ce camp possede une personne en charge de la prepara¬ 
tion des tables avant les repas, et responsable de la proprete 
des campeurs et des cabines de sorte que les mesures de 
sante soient preventives plutot que curatives. II me semble 
sage que les menus soient revises par un dieteticien qualifie, 
que le lait provienne d’une laiterie ou la qualite est verifiee 
et que l’eau potable et de natation soit analysee. Le camp 
lui-meme devrait etre verifie par les autorites de la Sante 
Provincial de sorte qu’il adhere aux standards minimum 
etablis par l’Association Provincial des Camps en ce qui 
conceme la direction, la programmation, les accommoda¬ 
tions et equipements, la sante et securite, le transport, le 
service de nourriture, la disposition generate du camp et la 
pratique des affaires. 

Un camp devrait avoir mis au point une procedure d’ur¬ 
gence en cas de noyade ou d'indendie; chaque personne 
devrait savoir ou aller, quoi faire, quand et pourquoi. Cha¬ 
que employe devrait savoir administrer la respiration artifi- 
cielle. Chaque campeur devrait etre ensigne comment donner 
la respiration artificielle. Le personnel medical du camp 
devrait envoyer une lettre d’explication aux parents dont 
l’enfant doit passer une nuit au centre de sante. Ce meme 
personnel devrait verifier I’etat de sante de chaque campeur 
quotidiennement, sans attendre qu’un probleme vienne 
vers lui. 

II s’avere difficile de delimiter des mesures de securite 
lorsque Ton veut conserver les facteurs “plaisir” et “aven- 
ture” tout en eliminant tout danger. Nous voulons que les 
campeurs soient fibres mais il faut les proteger. Un camp 
doit envisager et faire face aux perils naturels — herbe-a-puce, 
serpents venimeux, escarpements, pentes a-pic et courants 
sous-marins, chaleurs excessives, pluie et froid. 11 devrait 
finalement exister des mesures de sauvegarde aux endroits 
tels que les rives de 1’eau, le champ de tir-a-l’arc, les sentiers 
forestiers, le terrain de sports et les excursions a l’exterieur 
des frontieres du camp. 

Le Personnel est le plus Important 

Le valeur d’une experience de camp d’un enfant depends 
en grande partie des qualifications personnelles, de l’expe- 
rience et de l’entralnement du personnel. J’aimerais rencon- 
trer le Directeur. Je voudrais decouvrir quelle sorte de per¬ 
sonne il est — non pas uniquement la maniere dont le 
pamphlet le decrit - mais quel genre de personne il est 
vraiment. Quels sont ses objectifs? Qu’est-ce qui le motive 
a poursuivre son camp? Quel est le but du camp? 

Comment le personnel est-il choisi? Existe-t-il un cours 
d’entrainement des moniteurs? Si tel est le cas, qu’est-ce 
qu’ils apprennent durant le cours? Des connaissances pra¬ 
tiques d’habilete? Une certaine philosophic? Certaines tech¬ 
niques pour savoir diriger? Un peu de tout cela? 

En choisissant son personnel, j’espere que le camp s’in- 
teressera a leurs talents et connaissances car, si les employes 
possedent deja une certaine maitrise, il leur sera plus facile 
de diriger et d’enseigner les campeurs durant les program¬ 
mes. En choisissant son personnel, j’espere que le camp sera 
encore plus interesse par leur attitude. De quelle maniere les 
moniteurs reagissent-ils au camp? A sa philosophic? Com- 


7 


We do not camp for the sake of camping. We camp for the 
sake of the camper. Everything we do should be geared to 
enabling the camper to experience the maximum per¬ 
sonality growth. 

Therefore, if possible, I would like to visit my child’s 
camp so that I can meet his counsellor and his cabin mates, 
so that I can see him in the dining hall and in swimming, so 
that I can see Chapel Bay, Rocky Point, Lone Tree Island 
and the Nature Trail. Then at the end of Camp, our camper 
may relate happy times to us with the full knowledge that 
his mother and I know whereof he speaks. 

Talking with parents of campers or, better still, the 
campers themselves would act as reassurance and confirma¬ 
tion or might help my child and me to decide that, maybe, 
this isn’t the camp for us after all. 

Be Trusting 

Once we have made our selection (my child and I), then 
I would put my faith in the Camp Director and his staff to 
accomplish those things we had hoped for when we set out 
to seek the right camp. Meanwhile, I will try, as a parent, 
to understand that miracles don’t always happen and my 
child’s growth may not be as extensive as I might have hoped 
it would be. I will not be discouraged if the highest expecta¬ 
tions are not reached in his first year at camp but will look 
forward, throughout his camping career, to continuous and 
positive growth and development. ■ 


Y CAMP WABANAKI 

LAKE VERNON, HUNTSVILLE, ONTARIO 


6-16 years 


KITCHENER-WATERLOO YMCA 


ment traitent-ils les campeurs? Comment s’entendent-ils 
avec les autres moniteurs? Guident-ils leur vie d’apres cer¬ 
tains principes au d’apres des limitations? J’espere que le 
Directeurdu camp a pour principe qu’aucun employe, ayant 
un poste de surveillance, ne peut s’attendre a ce que l’on 
fasse ce qu’il n’est pas en mesure de faire lui-meme. Une 
bonne regie generate consiste a posseder un employe pour 
trois campeurs. 

Participation des Parents 

De sorte qu’un campeur retire du camp une experience 
aussi complete que possible, il est essentiel que les parents 
participent activement et entierement a cette experience — 
lors des preparatifs au camp, durant 1’absence de l’enfant et 
entre les saisons de camping. Nous ne dirigeons pas un camp 
dans le but de diriger un camp. Nous dirigeons un camp 
dans l’interet du campeur. Nous devons orienter nos actions 
dans le but de permettre au campeur d’experimenter le 
developpement maximal de sa personality. 

Alors si possible, je voudrais visiter le camp de mon en¬ 
fant afin de rencontrer son moniteur, ses compagnons de 
cabine, de le voir nager, de visiter la Chapelle Des Bouleaux, 
file Solitaire et le Sentier de l’Aigle. De cette fa$on, notre 
campeur partagera avec moi les beaux moments de son 
sejour en etant assure que je suit familier avec ce dont il me 
parle. 

Le fait de parler avec d’autres parents, ou encore mieux 
avec les autres enfants pourrait egalement reassurer et con¬ 
firmer mon choix ou aider mon enfant et moi a decider que 
ceci n’est pas le camp pour nous apres tout. 

Faire Confiance 

Apres avoir fait notre choix (mon filset moi), je mettrais 
ma confiance dans le Directeur et son personnel qu’ils 
accompliront ces choses que nous esperions lors de notre 
recherche du camp ideal. En attendant, j’esaierai en tant 
que parent, de comprendre que les miracles ne se pro- 
duisent pas toujours et que la croissance de mon enfant ne 
sera peut-etre pas aussi developpee queje l’avais esperee. Je 
ne me decouragerai pas si mes esperances elevees ne sont pas 
atteintes durant la premiere annee mais je m’attendrai dans 
le futur, a travers sa carriere de camp, a une croissance et 
developpement positif et continuel. 

Traduction par: Marie-Helene Bergeron 
Etudiante en Troisieme Annee de Recreation 
Universite de Waterloo 



the ‘anytime*’ meal makers 


GIBBONS FOODS 

A complete range 

of food products for any meal or any snack. 

Include “CAMP RITE” rations 
in your next outing - full menu selection. 

GIBBONS FOODS LIMITED 

49 ADVANCE ROAD. TORONTO. ONTARIO M8Z 2S6 TEL. 239-1421 


8 




TREMBLAY CANOES 



The finest canoes made in Canada today — correctly designed by craftsmen with 65 years' experience for men who 
really know canoes — stable, seaworthy, safe, capable of riding the roughest water or fast water. 

The unsinkable cedar canoes with no space taken up by floatation tanks. 

Tremblay canoes have for the past 9 years been covered with "Verolite", a plastic-coated canvas which ELIMINATES 
ALL EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE. Lighter than painted canvas and far more durable and scuff resistant — not 
affected by heat or cold. 

After seven years' use by more than 60 Boys' and Girls' camps and by various police units and several governmental 
departments in Ontario and Quebec, also by Paper Mills and Lumbering Companies in their spring drives and by 
Mining and Oil Development Companies and by thousands of canoeists comprising the general public, we have yet to 
have a complaint from any user who was not happy with the performance of Verolite. 

In the construction of Tremblay Canoes only No. 1 Eastern Canada Cedar is used and only solid Brass nails and Brass 
screws are used. The deck pieces, thwarts and seats are of white Birch. Seats may be either slat style or rawhide laced. 

o 

The interior is finished with Urethane Lacquer to provide years of protection. 

For the fisherman, hunter or camp operator, Tremblay offers a complete range of pointed, V-Stern, or flat-wide stern 
canoes in 43 sizes and models. 

Verolite is now available in red, green or orange. Green and orange are colour fast. Red not guaranteed colour fast. 
Carrying yokes can be built in or provided separately. These are extra. 

Verolite covered canoes do not require periodic painting, thus they do not take on added weight with the passing years. 

A Cedar canoe is always preferred by the experienced knowledgeable canoeist. They ride right and handle right. 
For complete information write to the Canadian Sales Representatives, see below. 

Made by 

TREMBLAY CANOES LIMITED 

40 ST. PAUL ST., ST. FELICIEN, QUE. 

EXCLUSIVE SALES REPRESENTATIVES FOR CANADA 

CAMERON & TYRRELL LTD. 

P.O. BOX 97, STATION "D", TORONTO, ONT. M6P 3J5 • Phone 621-3909 




WINTER 

CAMPING 


—by Mors Kochanski 

Freelance Instructor in Survival and Wilderness Living , Ed son, Alberta 


LIGHTING FIRE WITH MATCHES AND TWIGS: 

This method of lighting fire should he mastered by everyone 
going into the bush. It is a method that requires no tools, is 
very efficient, and can be managed in the cold as the twigs 
can be gathered while wearing mitts. One hand need be 
exposed only for a few moments when lighting the twigs. 

(a) Collecting the twigs: The twigs can be any diy wood. 
Spruce is the easiest and quickest to gather. Keeping the 
pencil-thick butts at one end, gather a large handful of the 
twigs. Besides creating a good starting fire, a large bundle 
will provide protection for the match flame. 



Fig. 1 


The bundle is slightly compressed and the fine ends broken 
oft and added to the bundle (Fig. 1). The broken ends will 
ignite better. Overly compressed bundles do not ignite 
easily. 

On occasion a bundle will spring apart and go out as it is 
laid down, or it is accidentally dropped and put out. As a 
precaution against this the bundle should be bound with 
grass (Fig. 2), string, or other binding material. The properly 
made and bound bundle is virtually impossible to put out 
once it is well lit. a point that can be demonstrated by 
whirling the bundle at arm’s length or throwing it as far 
as possible. 



(b) Lighting the bundle: With a finger, produce a small 
cove in the bottom of the bundle for the match. If the 
twigs seem in any way damp, it will help to place small 
pieces of spruce or pine resin where the twigs are to be lit. 
The match box is held firmly with the thumb against the 
bundle of twigs. A match should be held protectively in the 
cup of the hand with thumb and forefinger; at the instant 
of striking, the middle and index fingers support the match 
stick up to the head to prevent the match breaking acci¬ 
dentally when being struck. Figure 3 illustrates the point 
just after the match is struck. Use your body and coat in 
protecting the match flame. 



Fig. 3 


As soon as the bundle begins to burn, one may wedge the 
match in to the bundle so that it will continue to burn 
without being held. Put the match box away rather than 
allowing it to drop to the ground. The bundle may be moved 
about to make the twigs catch better. After a few moments 
the twigs are usually burning well enough so that the flame 
is intensified by any wind. The bundle is laid down so that 
the wind blows the flames into it and kindling and Firewood 
is stacked over it. 


(c) Excessive wind: Depending on the wind conditions and 
the seriousness of your situation, you may have to build a 
windproof tent with your coat, by draping it over an upright 
stick stuck in the snow or ground. Once lit the bundle can 
be carried a long way before it is laid down. In fact, if the 
bundle is made longer it makes a good torch, as long as it is 
only used when there is snow on the ground or a trail of 
forest fires will follow you everywhere you go. A torch a 
foot long may last 10 to 15 minutes. 

(d) Preparation: It is a good idea to make a few fire light¬ 
ing bundles for use during the night or in the morning. 
These should be made during daylight hours for use at 
night, and stored in a dry corner of the shelter. 

LIGHTING FIRE WITH A FLINT AND STEEL: 

Although a match is a convenient way of lighting a fire, it is 
very vulnerable to the slightest wind. The flint and steel 


10 









method thrives on wind. It is also a preferred method for 
conserving a dwindling match supply. Mastering this rela¬ 
tively easy method develops a more sensitive appreciation 
of what it takes to make a fire go. 

(a) Pre-requisites: The flint and steel method requires 
carbon steel in the form of a knife blade or the tempered 
portion of an axe blade. For a flint, almost any hard rock 
will do that can be cracked to produce a sharp edge. To 
catch the feeble spark produced by the burning flecks of 
steel knocked off by the rock a specially prepared material 
known as tinder is needed. The tinder we are dealing with 
here is any charred vegetable fibre such as cotton. To char 
the cotton a ‘tinder box’ is used which can be a shoe polish 
tin or two pieces of close fitting bark. With the aid of two 
thin, long sticks, half inch wide strips of the cotton cloth 
are set ablaze and placed in the tinder box. When the flames 
begin to subside the lid is put on to exclude the oxygen and 
stop the charred cotton from burning up completely. From 
this it is obvious that fire is initially needed to propagate 
more fire. 

(b) Kindling: Kindling is a material that will burst into 
tlame by the use of a piece of glowing tinder. (Tinder is a 
material that will intercept a feeble spark and begin to 
glow.) 

The dry inner bark of black poplar (Populus balsamifera) 
is a good kindling. Another kindling that is readily available 
is Old Man’s Beard. (Usnea cavernosa - the green variety, 
Alectoria fremontii - the black variety .) It is a lichen which 
hangs down in tufts from branches of trees. It is much more 
difficult to use by the inexperienced person as the slightest 
amount of moisture will give problems. This kindling is the 
most difficult to use when you need it most. If it is com¬ 
pressed too much it will not work as well as when it is 
fluffed up. A large ball of this kindling is collected and 
blown into flame with the breath. Its main advantage is its 
convenience of handling if it is to be dried by body heat. 

Dry grass is a very good kindling to use with the charred 
cotton tinder. 

All of the above kindlings can be blown into flame with 
the breath. Black poplar bark and grass should first be 
crumbled and shredded and made into a “nest” for the 
tinder. To avoid getting smoke in the eyes, hold the kindling 
slightly above your head while you gently blow into it. 



Fig. 4 

(c) Striking the Spark: Strike a sharp edge of your stone a 
glancing blow with the back of your knife blade, directing 
the sparks into the tinder. Eventually one of the sparks 
catches and begins to glow. The glowing piece of charred 


cloth is picked out, placed in a nest of kindling and blown 
into flame. An alternative method is to hold the knife blade 
still and strike it with the stone the technique used when 
lighting fire with an axe. 



As proficiency is gained a piece of tinder is held under the 
thumb as shown and a spark struck off the stone Hies up¬ 
ward into the tinder. Striking into the tinder box often 
causes many pieces to glow, thereby being wasteful. 

CHARRED 



(d) Other materials: Although many other materials are 
described as being used in striking a spark the only one of 
note is using two pieces of hard pyrite. It is very difficult 
to get a spark by striking together other non-ferrous rocks. 


THE ROYCRAFT* EMERGENCY SNOWSHOE 

This type of snowshoe can be easily built with about four 
to six feet of strong cord (nylon) for binding plus seven or 
eight feet of wicking or similar material for the harness lor 
each snowshoe. The only tool required is a sharp pocket 
knife. 

1. Materials: Depending on your circumstances, you may 
build your snowshoes of either dry or green spruce poles. 
If your need is short term and immediate the snowshoe 
made of dry, dead spruce will likely be adequate. If you 
have a long distance to travel it may be well worth your 
while to build stronger snowshoes of green saplings that are 
to be dried near the fire. 

The best place to look for thin long poles is in a spruce 
thicket. 

2. Number of saplings: Select five saplings for each shoe 
that are reasonably straight and as long as you are tall. The 
thin ends of the saplings should be of pencil thickness. It it 
is difficult to find long poles use shorter poles but use six 
instead of five. 

*T.A. Roycraft, Civilian Instructor. Department of National Defence 
Survival Training School, Jarvis Lake. Alberta 

1 1 





3. Removing branches and bark: The branches are re¬ 
moved from the dry saplings by rubbing between two trees 
as illustrated in figure 7. With a knife peel as much bark off 
as possible on the green saplings. 




POINT Of BAIANCI 



4. Tying the toe end: The poles for one snowshoe are first 
tied tightly together in a bundle about an inch from the 
thin ends. 

5. The point of balance: The bundle is balanced on the 
edge of the hand to determine its point of balance. When 
the foot is placed on the snowshoe, the point of balance 
must be slightly behind the heel. That way when a forward 
step is taken the toe of the snowshoe will come up and the 
heel will stay down. 

6. Lashing: Fan the poles out slightly on the ground and 
place your foot in its correct position forward of the point 
of balance. Boards need to be lashed under the ball and the 
heel of the foot. If an axe is not available to split boards 
about half an inch thick and two-and-a-half to three inches 
wide, then half inch diameter sticks can be used. The sticks 
may be flattened a little. The width of the snowshoe under 
the foot is the width of the span of the fully outstretched 
hand. 



DEEP 
NOTCHES 
CUT IN BOARD 


LASHING MADE 
WITH TWO 
JAM KNOTS 


SPRUCE POLES 


WIDTH OF SNOWSHOE IS THE 
OISTANCE OF OUTSTRETCHED HAND 


Fig. 8 

A very secure means of lashing the boards or sticks to the 
poles is the jam knot which is illustrated at the end of this 
article. For further security, notches are cut above each pole 
into the boards to keep the lashing in place. Two jam knots 
crossing, are made at each pole with the knots on the bot¬ 
tom to offer traction. The free ends of the jam knot are 
tightly tied with a double reef knot. 

7. Securing the ends: When the lashing is completed the 
back ends of the snowshoe poles fan out in an awkward 
manner. At the least, the ends should be bound together so 
that they almost touch. A more secure method is to lash a 
short stick across the tail end. 




8. If the snowshoe is made of dry saplings it is now ready 
to use. If made of green saplings the toe end is given a slight 
upward bend and tied back to the first board to retain the 
bend until the wood dries. If time permits the snowshoes 
may then be dried near the fire to make them light and 
strong; otherwise the snowshoe may be used green and 
allowed to dry in its own time. 

9. The harness: If the board under the ball of the foot is 
at least a half an inch thick no hole for the toe is required 
as in the conventional snowshoe. The harness may be of 
lampwick, cord, buckskin, or perhaps some part of your 
clothing that you may have to sacrifice for this purpose. 
The harness that is recommended is the Squaw Hitch. 
Attaching harness to the emergency snowshoe is a little 
more awkward than to the regular snowshoe. To facilitate 
an easier attachment a half inch stick may be secured in 
front of the board under the ball of the foot. If this is done 
then the Squaw Hitch is tied on exactly the same way as it 
would be on a regular snowshoe. 

10. The simplified Squaw Hitch: This is a dependable hitch 
that can be released without using the hands and once 
stretched may not require retying for long periods. 

(1) Each snowshoe requires two pieces of binding material. 
One is a foot long and the other is six feet long. 

(2) Attach one end of the short wick with two half hitches. 

(3) At the same point attach the long wick with a half hitch 
so that one end is 18 inches long. 

(4) For convenience of handling, thread the wick as shown 
before placing the foot on the snowshoe. 

(5) Put foot on snowshoe and complete tying small loop, 
by fitting it over the toe, removing the toe and shorten¬ 
ing the loop another half inch before tying it down 
with two half hitches. 

(6) Take the 18 inch end of the longer wick and pass it 
through the front of the small loop and use it to assist 


Pioneer Ranch Camps 

Interdenominational Camps for ages 9 through 17 
during July and August. 

The programme consists of riding, extensive outtrips, 
glacier and mountain climbs, swimming, hiking, 
riflery and archery. 


86 11 — 1 09 STREET 
EDMONTON. ALTA. 


TELEPHONE 
403-433-49 1 6 


12 



























in putting small loop over toe. Leave a loop of the 
18 inch piece as shown. 

(7) Take the long end, place it well up on the heel, pull 
tight and fasten down with only one half hitch. 

(8) Now take the end and pass it through the loop formed 
by the 18 inch end. 

(9) Both remaining ends now make half hitches as shown, 
on the previously tied heel strap. 



(10) Go around the heel with the longest end and tie, pre¬ 
ferably with a slip knot and on the outside of your 
ankle. 


Fig. 11 

NOTE: Most poor ties are traced back to step 5. If the toe 
loop is tied loosely the toe ends up catching the framework 
of the snowshoe and the harness tends to fall off. 

In step 10 the tie is sometimes varied by tying across the 
instep or excess wick may be used up by wrapping around 
the ankle. Either variation will defeat the purpose of the 
snowshoe tie, as it will no longer be self releasing. 

As the knots tighten with use the snowshoe tie may have 
be redone from (9) and if it was tied particularly loose one 


may have to go as far back as (6). However, once stretching 
takes place the tie may not have to be redone for days. 

To release the snowshoe, bend knee forward as if to 
kneel, which almost releases the snowshoe, then rotate toe 
out of small loop. Keep turning foot until toe points to the 
rear of the snowshoe and then bring foot back and up out 
of the harness. Reverse the process to put the harness back 
on. The release feature is especially useful if you should 
flounder and not be able to reach your harness to undo it. 

11. The Jam Knot: This knot is designed to be used with 
nylon cord, specifically parachute shroud line. The knot is 
very useful wherever something has to be tied together very 
tightly and where loosening of the binding is not desirable. 
Another feature of this knot is that when it is to be untied 
the first overhand knot is cut off, causing the knot to come 
off easily with a minimum of wastage of cord. This knot 
lends itself particularly well to binding the emergency 
snowshoe. 



(1) Tie an overhand knot in the very end of the cord. 

(2) Pass cord over objects to be tied together. 

(3) Tie an overhand knot near the first overhand knot and 
over the cord as shown. 

(4) Before pulling tight tuck knot under as shown. 

(5) Pull at point “X” to tighten noose over objects and the 
cord itself. 

(6) Pull end through loop and pull as tight as possible. 

(7) Repeat the process on the opposite diagonal and tie the 
ends of the two knots together with a double reef knot. 

BANNOCK (BAKING POWDER BREAD) 

(a) On a pole: 

1. Previous to mixing the dough prepare a green pole about 
as thick as one’s wrist, four or more feet long. White poplar 
is best as the wood is fairly sweet; willow is second. Peel the 
bark off on the central section of the pole. Toast the peeled 
part of the pole (for at least ten minutes) until it is slightly 
brown and quite hot. As soon as the pole is hot, prepare 
your bannock. 

2. Roll down the sides of the flour bag. Measure out ap¬ 
proximately Va teaspoon salt and two heaping teaspoons of 
baking powder on to the surface of the Hour. You may add 

13 






























two tablespoons sugar, some powdered milk and raisins 
according to taste. Run the surface of the flour through the 
fingers to mix the ingredients. Make a depression in the top 
of the flour that will easily accommodate a cup of cold 
water. With the index finger swirl the water without exces¬ 
sively digging into the flour. The water will absorb the right 
amount of flour of its own accord. When the dough is no 
longer sticky it may be picked up and worked with the well 
floured hands. The stirring finger is the only part of the 
hands that gets any dough stuck to it. Do not work the 
dough too much or it may go flat. 

3. At this point the bannock is mixed and made into a long 
“cigar" and fattened on to the stick, if at all possible, less 
than a half inch thick. The dough must be very / thick for 
this. A tacky dough will fall off in gobs when it begins to 
rise. Spiral the dough onto the pole so that the edges can be 
pressed together to aid the dough to stay on. If some of the 
dough begins to fall off while baking press it back on. The 
hot pole helps to cook the bannock from the inside. Bake 
the bannock over hot coals or to the edge of a hot fire. Take 
your time (at least 15 to 20 minutes) or you will have a 
charred outside and a raw inside. Bannock is usually baked 
in sufficient quantities in the evening to last for the whole 
of the next day. 

(b) With a frying pan: 

1. In using a frying pan the dough is made thin enough to 
run slightly. The frypan is well greased and the dough spread 
out in it. The pan is put on hot coals to “set" the bannock 
so that it will not run. It is then propped up in front of the 
fire as illustrated in figure 13 and baked, occasionally rotat¬ 
ing the bannock so that it may bake evenly. 



COOKING REFLECTOR 


Fig. 13 

2. It no grease is available the dough is made slightly thicker 
and a layer of Hour is browned in the pan to keep the dough 
from sticking to the bottom. 

KEEPING WARM: 

One succinct definition of survival is ‘maintaining one’s 
temperature at 98.6°F? Keeping warm is one of the most 
basic rules for self preservation. The moment one’s body 
temperature begins to drop, death is imminent, and may be 
a few short hours away. 

BASIC PRINCIPLES OF KEEPING WARM: 

1. Defense against Cold: (Insulation) 

Your body must be protected from losing heat to the 
surrounding air. The prime defence here is properly chosen 
clothing which keeps body heat from escaping by insulating 
the body against cold air and preventing heat lost through 
trapped moisture. The clothing should be an excellent in¬ 
sulator, moisture permeable, and at the same time non¬ 
restricting and easy to put on and take off. Wool still is one 


of the best fabrics for the out-of-doors. It is a very effective 
insulator because of its ability to create dead air spaces and 
trap air. When wet, wool restricts conduction about as 
effectively as any fabric can. It also has the property of 
resisting burning from sparks. 

The following outline suggests one way of dressing ade¬ 
quately for the cold. 

(a) Head: There should be an effective cover for head and 
ears, windproof and waterproof where necessary (bal- 
moral, tarn, beret, toque, fur cap, etc.) 

(b) Neck: Wear a scarf of wool or nylon that affords com¬ 
plete protection for the neck. A scarf an armspan long 
(fingertip to fingertip of the outstretched arms) that 
can wrap around the neck twice is recommended; 
(made of rip stop nylon, double thickness, one to two 
feet wide). The head and neck can account for at least 
20% of the body’s heat loss. 

(c) Upper Part of the Body: Four layers of wool on the 
upper part of the body will allow considerable flexi¬ 
bility from the snowy mountain top to the sweltering 
valley by adding or removing layers. Special attention 
should be paid to an important heat radiator in the 
area of the chest, which one instinctively covers with 
the upper arms when cold. 

1. Underwear (two piece - jersey and drawers, 95% 
wool and 5% nylon). Wear nylon underwear against 
skin if allergic to wool. Some people can tolerate 
finely woven wool fabric, where they would be 
allergic to coarse wool. One piece is not as versatile 
as the two piece suit as you have to undress com¬ 
pletely to take it off. 

2. Shirt - thin wool. 

3. Jack Shirt or thick wool sweater, fairly bulky. 

4. Wool coat made by Pioneer. The sleeves should be 
long enough to keep the wrists from being exces¬ 
sively exposed. 

(d) Lower Part of the Body: The legs should have two 
layers of wool and perhaps an outside windproof- 
snowproof covering. The inner thighs should also re¬ 
ceive special attention as they are another significant 
heat radiator. 

1. Underwear — bottoms. 

2. Heavy wool pants 

3. Nylon outer pants (optional but very advantageous, 
since snow does not stick to nylon as it does to 
wool). 

(e) Feet: Footwear must not be restrictive in any way, yet 
not be so loose as to cause problems such as chafing, or 
cause socks to come off or roll. There is no one foot¬ 
wear combination that will be adequate for all con¬ 
ditions and be found suitable to the personality and 
physical make-up of everybody. The choice of footwear 
has to be carefully matched to the user. For example, 
under certain conditions it is difficult to beat three 
pairs of good woollen socks for comfort. At other 
times a pair of light rubbers over the socks is necessary. 
Then there are times when this combination becomes 
very inadequate. 

One combination that seems to be quite effective is 
as follows:* 


* Based on information supplied by John (Muskeg) Velchek, 
Red Deer, Alta. 


14 




1. One pair of good woollen socks. (If allergic to wool, 
wear nylon socks next to skin.) 

2. One pair buckskin moccasins to fit snugly over socks. 

3. Two pairs duffle liners or booties made to be worn 
inside the other. These are usually obtainable from 
war surplus. In wanner weather use one liner and in 
colder weather wear two. 

4. Fit snowmobile boots to the above after discarding 
liners. Suggested boot — MINER (Canadian made) 
with rings for lacing, instead of zipper. 

Next choice: 

1. Two good wool socks. 

2. 1 pair buckskin moccasins. 

3. Good moccasin rubbers. 

Third Choice: 

1. Three pairs good wool socks. 

2. Good moccasin rubbers. 

Emergency Choice: 

Three pairs wool socks only. This can be found to be 
surprisingly comfortable. It is best used when the snow 
is not melting. If the footwear you are using is causing 
your feet to be quite cold almost instant relief is ex¬ 
perienced by taking the boots off and walking around 
in your socks. Stepping into water seems to present no 
problem. The snow quickly soaks up excess water. 
There is usually a slight sensation of dampness which 
does not become uncomfortable in using this type of 
footwear. 

With this as with most footwear there is usually little 
problem with cold as long as you are travelling. On 
standing around, the feet tend to get cold. The main 
problem is with the heels, which compress the material 
under them to virtually eliminate any insulation from 
the cold ground. Of course standing around on ground 
thawed by your campfire presents problems. 

(f) Mitts: Mitts are preferred to gloves which can get quite 
cold. A good combination is a soft leather outer and a 
good knitted or wool duffle liner. The combination 
must be loose and easy to put on or take off. An 
elastic sewn in at the underside of the wrist will help 
to keep the mitt on and the cold out. The mitt must be 
tight enough so that it will not fall off the hand easily. 
Losing a mitt can be very inconvenient. A cord arrange¬ 
ment that is used in keeping children from losing their 
mitts is an excellent idea. 

2. Defense against Moisture: 

Moisture, be it in the form of rain, immersion by falling 
through ice, melting snow or excessive sweat is the same in 
its effect, which is the rapid conduction of heat away from 
the surface of the skin. The thermal conductivity of water 
is 240 times greater than air. That is, a wet skin may lose 
heat 240 times faster than dry skin. External incidental 
sources of moisture such as rain may be contended with by 
an external waterproof or repellent layer of clothing. Even 
wet wool for example has only one tenth the insulative 
ability of dry wool. 

This outer layer must block the entrance of outside mois¬ 
ture and also allow venting of internal moisture resulting 
from perspiration and transpiration. Sweat can dampen 
insulation as effectively as water and it must be controlled. 
As perspiration evaporates the body tends to chill. This 
situation is controlled by the design of your clothing and 
how you manipulate it. 


In general, you control overheating by removing layers 
of clothing. You may regulate your exertion so as not to 
produce excessive sweating and draw a compromise between 
the objective you may want to reach and keeping warm. It 
may be worthwhile to consider travelling at a slow com¬ 
fortable pace, taking longer to get there, rather than making 
a dash for your objective and then subsequently exerting 
considerable energy in gathering that much more fuel to 
keep warm because of having arrived sooner in a sweat. 

If you know you will have to exert yourself then you 
must take steps to vent off excess heat and moisture before 
any build up occurs, a point you have to learn through 
experience. You may follow this sequence: 

1. Uncover ears. 

2. Uncover neck. 

3. Uncover one hand. 

4. Uncover second hand. 

5. Open clothing at neck. 

6. Open clothing at wrists. 

7. Remove headgear altogether if appropriate. 

8. Remove layers of clothing at various points in the 
sequence. 

If you find removing a layer of clothing is too much you 
may re-establish certain parts of the sequence, such as 
covering the ears, neck, or replacing your mitts. 

Your hands and feet should be considered the indicators 
as to your body’s state of heat balance. Feet, because they 
perspire more readily, are difficult to keep warm. If your 
feet are warm and your body dry, you are well off. If at all 
possible, your hands must never be allowed to get cold , as 
you need your hands to light a fire and carry out other 
operations relevant to your survival. 

It may bear emphasizing that it is very convenient to 
have clothing that provides quick means of ventilation for 
those short hard spurts of activity by having fronts that 
open, a shortcoming in the pull over style of clothing. 

DEFENCE AGAINST WIND (WIND CHILL): 

Clothing that is generally adequate under most con¬ 
ditions becomes very inadequate in strong winds due to 
increased convection and increased moisture evaporation. 
If windproof clothing is not available you should immedi¬ 
ately seek shelter from the wind and wait it out. For 
example, if it is 50°F. and the wind is 25 m.p.h. then the 
equivalent temperature is 30°F. If it is 30°F. at the same 
wind velocity then the equivalent temperature is 0°. If it is 
0° at the same wind velocity the equivalent temperature is 
-44°F. 

If you are wet the situation can become very serious, as 
the thermal conductivity of water is 240 times greater than 
that of still air. That is, wet clothing can cause you to lose 
heat 240 times faster than dry clothing. 

As soon as cold, wet and wind begin to take effect, 
establishing fire and shelter takes the greatest priority. The 
only solution to chilling is immediate re-warming of body 
and drying of clothing. ■ 


CLASSIFIED AD* 


COOKERY FOR KIDS, KAMP 'N KICKS . . . Compiled by 
Helen E. Stewart. A book useful to the homemaker and camp 
director. Compiled after years of enthusiastic camper response 
to her camp meals. Most recipes six to eight servings; can be 
multiplied for larger quantities. 

81 pages; $2.75 plus 2bi postage. 

Alvie Publications, Apt. 510, 240 Markland Drive 
Etobicoke, Ontario M9C 1 R3 


15 







FOODTACTICS ~ 

at home, at camp 

—by Joan Fielden 

Home Economist Consultant 


Although it may be snowing outside and the weather is 
still cold the time has come to think about camps for your 
children this summer. It only takes a miserable Saturday 
morning to make you realize that the same old cries of 
“What’ll I do now, Mom?” are good enough reason to think 
about the long summer coming and the same question being 
asked every day. Yes, like you I have faced the same prob¬ 
lem and have come to learn that camps are just great for 
young children. Over and above the opportunity to live with 
other children on an equal basis and to learn to get along, 
and share with them, it teaches them a great deal about the 
responsibility of the outdoor life - respect for water and 
woods and new activities that are not available to them in 
the city or in the home environment. That’s a personal 
opinion! 

The next question, and perhaps the one I can answer 
even more accurately is the concern of parents about the 
food their children will receive at camp. One thing for sure, 
the camps to-day will certainly feed them lots of food, and 
it will be good food. But in many cases it is different from 
the kinds of foods they are used to at home. Different, be¬ 
cause it is foods that can, and are able to be cooked in 
quantity. Stop for a moment and think about the recipes 
you use in your house; you will soon realize that many of 
them state at the end “serve at once”. Say you have a large 
number of people to prepare food for and you are serving a 
meal over a longer period of time, the “serve at once” on a 
recipe is something to avoid. Then you have to choose 
recipes and foods that can be held hot or cold for reason¬ 
able periods of time without deterioration of appearance, 
taste and texture. This is one problem for camp operators 
too. By the way the next time you attend a banquet and 
you think the food is not so good ask yourself “Is it the 
kind of food that should have been served at a banquet?” 

Now that we have accepted the fact that the foods may 
be somewhat different than you serve at home you can be 
assured that outdoor life, hunger and the friendships of the 
others will bring about ravenous appetites. Children that go 
to camp will eat food at camp that they will refuse to eat 
when you cook them, both before they go and after they 
come back. Camp food is fun food, and they enjoy eating it 
and they enjoy sharing it with others. 

If your child has food allergies or particularly strong 
likes and dislikes these should be given to a camp operator 
in advance. It not only facilitates the problem so the child 
is not left to worry alone about whether he or she is going 
to be able to have foods he can eat but not be obviously 
different from the other children at each meal. 

So you have been worried about your child coming home 
and telling you that he had hamburgers and hot dogs and 
you feel these are not good foods. Let me assure you that a 


hamburger or a hot dog with relish or with cheese is probably 
a much more nutritious meal than you think. Why! because 
a hamburger with cheese and relish contains a food from 
each of the four basic food groups. A camp operator is cer¬ 
tain that he is feeding your child something he likes and 
something that is fun to eat, and something that is good for 
him. Cheese-dogs which are cheese and wieners wrapped 
with bacon and served in a bun are also camp favourites that 
are fun foods too. These again contain foods from three of 
the four food groups and are easy to make, fun to eat and 
something that even the youngest child can pick up and 
handle with ease. 

So whether you are a camp operator or a parent there is 
one guide to good eating that should be remembered by 
each of us and that is that you have to eat a variety of foods 
from each of the four food groups every day. 

Now I have mentioned the four food groups and you are 
going to say “What are they; how much should we have?” 
Now the first food group is Meat and Meat Alternates. 

We need two servings a day or one and one-half servings 
for children under ten and persons over sixty. 

This food group includes items like fish, poultry, eggs, 
dried beans and peas. 

Serving sizes for example are: 

3-4 ounces of meat, fish or poultry 
2 eggs 

4 tablespoons peanut butter 
1 cup baked beans 

You can see now why a peanut butter sandwich is an 
important item in a good diet. 

The Fmit and Vegetable Group 

We should have three servings a day and it should be a 
variety of colourful fruits and vegetables and some with a 
source of Vitamin C. For example: 

One serving is one-half cup of fruit or vegetables, and 
these can be fresh, frozen or canned or they can be served 
in the form of juice. Keep in mind that Vitamin C should 
be consumed every day. 

Vitamin C is available in such foods as vitaminized apple 
juice, tomatoes, potatoes, strawberries, broccoli, turnip, 
cabbage, citrus fruits and all their juices. 

The third food group is Milk and Milk Products. 

Children up to ten years of age require 2-3 servings. 
18-19 years two to three servings. Adults one to one and 
one-half servings. 

Milk can be used as a beverage or you can use cheese, ice 
cream or food made with milk such as puddings. 

For example: 

One serving is an 8-ounce cup of milk, cottage cheese 

or yogurt. 

One serving can be three medium scoops of ice cream. 



16 




One serving can be - one ounce of cheddar cheese 

- two ounces of processed cheese. 

The milk that is used in sauces, puddings and soups is 
just as good. Skim milk powder can be used to replace whole 
milk, if dollars are to be considered in the budget or skim 
milk powder can be used in half and half with regular whole 
milk. 

If you are using skim milk powder it is advisable to mix 
it up and let it chill overnight. It seems to develop better 
drinking qualities for young people. Some milk drinks that 
combine two of the groups is to use skim milk powder, 
water and some fruit, mix them up for a fruit milk drink. 
These are very popular and a good opportunity to serve two 
of the food groups at one time. 

The fourth food group is Cereals , Breads and Pastas, 

Everyone does need three servings a day. 

You should choose whole grain or enriched cereals or 
breads and pastas. For example: 

One serving would be - 3/4 cup of oatmeal 

- 1 cup bran flakes 

- 1 slice enriched bread 

- 3/4 cup enriched macaroni 

What we are really trying to say is that by choosing foods 
from each of the Four Food Groups every day and prefer¬ 
ably at every meal you can be sure that you or your children 
are always eating well. 

Whether the choice is sirloin steak, an egg or ground 
beef, whether you choose artichokes or green beans, the 
food value is very much the same; the secret - to have 
something from each group. It does become a game with 
the children both at home and at camp to let them choose 
the foods and be certain that they are getting something 
from each of the groups at every meal. 

Now, parents, think about what you are serving children 
in the lunch box, for breakfast or supper, and I think you 
will realize that most of you are serving enough good foods 
every day. After this if children want snack foods or fun 
foods and their weight permits it, it’s perfectly all right for 
them to have it. Remember they have to eat enough of the 
right foods first. Yes and next time you get a report home 
of what they have had to eat I think that you will Find that 
most of the foods they eat are very nutritious and also 
enjoyable. Children rarely complain about the food at camp. 
If they are at camp for long periods of time they sometimes 
complain because of the repetition of similar items, and this 
is natural, whether at camp, at school, in hospital, every 
type of quantity feeding where a person is confined and 
can’t make a choice you will find that everyone, whether 
six or sixty, will find something wrong. There is no answer 
to this problem. The food is still eaten and enjoyed. 

Now that I have chatted with parents and tried to assure 
them not to worry about the foods that their children will 
get while at camp, and to guarantee they will probably come 
back happier, healthier, browner and stronger than when 
they left, let’s look at the camp operators problem today. 

Yes, camp operators still have to follow the basic rules 
of good nutrition too. We have already discussed the Four 
Food Groups and perhaps to make it easier we should say 
WHY you should eat foods from each of these food groups 
every day and preferably at every meal. 

The foods in the meat and meat alternate group are our 
main sources of protein, B Vitamins and iron. 

The foods in the fruits and vegetables group are our 
main source of Vitamin A and Vitamin C. 


The fruit and the milk and milk products group are our 
main sources of Calcium, Riboflavin and of course Protein. 

The foods in the bread, cereal and pasta group are our 
main sources of carbohydrates, B Vitamin and iron. 

You have heard reports from Nutrition Canada stating 
that Canadians are not getting enough iron or Vitamin C. 
Now for your information the following is a list of foods 
that are high in iron and Vitamin C. 

First, if you eat a variety of fruits and vegetables, fresh, 
canned or frozen you will certainly maintain the Vitamin C 
requirements without any trouble. 

Now there is iron: - meat or meat alternates 

— liver, liverwurst 

- red meats 

- egg yolks 

— dried peas (such as pea soup) 

- baked beans and kidney beans 

— beans and lentils 

From the fruit and vegetable group remember potatoes 
and green leafy vegetables have iron. 

From the bread, cereal and pasta group whole grain cereals 
and enriched bread contain iron. 

Foods high in Vitamin C. 

All Vitamin C fortified fruit juices such as apple, cran¬ 
berry and grape. 

In addition there is Vitamin C in blueberries, canteloupe, 
cherries, raspberries, rhubarb, strawberries, watermelon, 
citrus fruits and their juices. 

Vegetables that contain appreciable quantities of Vita¬ 
min C are asparagus, beans, broccoli, brussels sprouts, 
cauliflower, red or green cabbage, lettuce, parsnip, peas, 
green pepper, potatoes, sauerkraut, spinach, squash, sweet 
potatoes, tomatoes, tomato juice and turnip. 

Are there basic rules to follow when you are planning 
menus for campers? I believe that I can only suggest to you 
in this day of rising costs and increased labour problems to 
plan now. I suggest that you sit down and write menus out 
in advance. It is very easy to check on whether you are 
including all the basic nutrients that you like and need for 
the food health of your campers. When you do this you 
will also be including from your own personal experience 
those foods that the campers like best. These are the ones 
to serve and serve as often as you feel they will fit in with¬ 
out getting tired of them. 

And now you are faced with the next problem and that 
is to find the best recipes that you can for these items. With 
recipes you can see if there are alternates or less expensive 
items that you can substitute - exchange skim milk powder 
for whole milk, or add extra skim milk to milk powder 
when there is water in an item to give campers more 
goodness. 

Then it is important to go shopping, both by telephone 
and to the shows. Here you will look for and find new 
items that are available on the market, better buys. 

Whether you are a camper or whether you are a con¬ 
sumer the secret of success is to read the label. Labels today 
are probably the easiest and the best place to get the infor¬ 
mation about a product. Read them before you buy - 
when in doubt make a copy so that you know the goodness 
of the label. A label will tell you the quantity of product in 
a can or package. This will give you an idea of how much 
you need. Labels will give you a list of the ingredients so 
that you know whether you are buying products that are 
food value for your money. Labels also give you cooking 


17 



instructions and storing instructions; all are important when 
serving foods at their peak of freshness. 

Next you are going to say “Should I buy fresh; should I 
buy frozen; should 1 buy canned; should 1 buy prepared 
foods; should 1 make everything?” These are questions that 
have to be answered by each individual camp operator, and 
to answer them he has to consider: 

1. His storage facilities 

2. The kind of storage he has 

3. The size of his storage facilities 

4. The kitchen space 

5. His kitchen equipment 

6. The staff that is available to him 

7. Their ability to prepare the food 

8. Clean-up time 

9. Clean-up facilities 

Today with labour costs higher than they have ever been 
before, with paper products costing far more than we have 
ever paid before, camp operators must look and look very 
carefully at partially prepared and totally prepared foods. 
They must also look very carefully at the use of paper 
products, both from a standpoint of cost and at the ability 
of being able to dispose of them. Yes the time to begin is 
now, by planning, organizing your menus and your foods 
too before summer. By planning your orders for your 
supplies to coincide with your storage facilities, you can 
spend more time during the summer on the service of the 
food and working with campers. You really can remove a 
great deal of the headaches of day to day planning. 

Yes, every good camp operator must be prepared for 
emergencies and I believe it’s wise to write two-day emer¬ 
gency menus for the occasions of power failures or late 
arrival of supplies. Choose and write recipes and bring 
supplies in that will supply your campers with a good basic 
food in cold meals for two consecutive days. If the prob¬ 
lems don’t arise they can always be built into the menus 
during the last few days of camp without a great deal of 
trouble, offering something different and knowing they are 
eating well. 

SUGGESTIONS FOR FUN - Arriving at mealtime can be 
fun in many ways because campers are hungry. The children 
can become very adept at choosing foods which are good 
for them when it is made into a game. It has been suggested 
that cards be made indicating each of the Four Food Groups 
and these be placed somewhere in the dining room or if it is 
buffet service on the buffet serving table. Children will soon 
learn very clearly that if they want to eat properly they will 
choose something from each food group. If it is made avail¬ 
able to them you will find that it won’t be all dessert or all 
meat but they will try things that they have never tried 
before. 

Yes! Foodtactics at home and at camp are very impor¬ 
tant in encouraging children and adults to eat properly. The 
way the food is prepared, the way it is served, the colour, 
the texture and the flavour are all very important. Remem¬ 
ber, nothing is appetizing if it doesn’t look good; a plate 
with baked fish, mashed potatoes, cauliflower and cheese 
sauce is not an attractive dinner plate, but a dinner plate 
with baked fish, carrots, and green beans and potato puffs 
or browned potatoes is an attractive dinner dish. 

When planning menus think about these things. Fifty 
percent of the eating is always done with the eyes, if it looks 
good it will taste good; if it looks delicious people will think 
it tastes better. 


Keep in mind the texture of the food, not serving all soft 
textured foods on the same plate but a combination. Tex¬ 
ture of food is particularly important for children especially 
when they are at the stage of losing teeth. When they say 
that it hurts to eat or they find it hard to eat, believe them, 
because sometimes their gums do hurt and they do find it 
hard. So texture of the food is important, and must be con¬ 
sidered when planning. 

Colour of food is also important. Food must look appe¬ 
tizing, colours must be pleasing. A plate must be an exciting 
array of colour. 

Flavours of food are important, particularly with chil¬ 
dren because they have not developed likings for strong 
flavoured food at this stage of their life. They are used to 
meats, mildly sour food and reasonably bland types of 
food. Strong flavoured foods are often repelling at anytime 
and certainly if there is more than one at any one meal. 

Overcooked foods are unappetizing; they have lost their 
bright and interesting colours and textures. Remember it is 
better to undercook most vegetables and fruits and to cook 
food as needed rather than long periods in advance. 

Foodtactics for small children and young children are 
very important. Heaping plates can repel many children so 
that they don’t feel like eating, while other children will 
demolish them. Some children say I’m not hungry, believe 
them; maybe they aren’t hungry that particular day, but do 
use some foodtactics and encourage them to try just a little 
of everything, and the next time they will know they 
better take more because they got hungry between meals. 
It’s easy to introduce new foods to children in this manner, 
if you put food in groups and encourage them to choose 
something from each group. If they know a new food be¬ 
longs to the same group as a food they like then they will 
feel that maybe it is just as good, maybe it mil taste just as 
good as the one they really like and so they will try it. 

So, whether you are a parent or a camp operator, Food¬ 
tactics are important for children of camping age or any age. 
Don’t forget they really do have problems when losing 
teeth, some of them are into the age of childhood diseases 
losing appetites for a while. Children at camp are in a new 
environment, some are shy, some are over aggressive, but all 
of them are hungry at mealtime and all of them will learn 
to like the companionship of others at meals and will learn 
to try new food that becomes favourites, so get out your 
cookbook and do your homework. I think it’s important to 
plan because today, in order to be able to feed campers 
adequately and successfully, I think time has to be taken to 
Find the best source of supply for each basic food item. 
Foodtactics begin with menu planning and will follow 
through until the food is served. Will your menu fit the 
environment of your camp and the taste of your campers? ■ 


CAMP KANDALORE 


KIRK A.W. WIPPER 
10 DOUGLAS CRESCENT 
TORONTO, ONTARIO M4W2E7 


18 



—by Larry R. Johnston 


Tracking, 

sport for tlie observer 



Behind the house in which I was raised in Niagara Falls, 
Ont., there were raspberry patches, orchards, weed patches 
and woodlands which bordered a hydro canal. In addition 
to berries, peaches, plums, apples, cherries and pears, my 
“backyard” contained cotton-tail rabbits, foxes, raccoons, 
pheasants, deer, crows, owls, hawks, snakes, groundhogs, 
doves and a host of song birds. 

This chunk of land which was about two miles square, 
was my utopia. I would run home from school, change my 
clothes and head for the orchards to climb a tree just to sit 
and watch or skulk around for hours dissecting with my 
eyes all of what lay before me. 

I learned to walk without making sound. I learned to 
remain absolutely motionless. I also learned that when you 
are perfectly still and your form is broken by a background 
or a foregound of foliage, you are not distinguishable. In 
effect, you are invisible. If you learn to automatically hold 
your stomach muscles tight and breathe up and down 
rather than in and out, your stomach will not move and 
your mind will be free to think about not letting your 
eyes blink. 

The boulder strewn banks of the hydro canal were steep 
and dangerous. They were also home for much of the wild¬ 
life in the area. Fir trees lined the terraced upper portion of 
the banks and a hundred yards below, the water which 
would have plunged wildly over Niagara Falls had it not 
been diverted, plunged instead through the slippery, narrow 
channel of the canal. 

Perhaps the most fascinating season of the year in my 
“backyard” was winter because it was then I could learn of 
what went on in the territory while I was asleep or in 
school — or both. In most cases, the stories told by the 
tracks would begin where they left off the day before and 
by checking the condition of the snow, it was often possible 
to estimate the time activities began. 

Tracking was something that just naturally fell in with 
my role as observer in the territory. I didn’t have a teacher 
and I didn’t know this type of education could be absorbed 
quickly and easily by reading books. 

In the beginning, I would find a track and follow it. It 
would lead either to a hole or a brush pile or it would dis¬ 
appear under a boulder or under the back of someone’s 
garage. Then I would back-track or follow the track in the 
other direction. It might lead me around in a circle, to 
another dead-end or to whatever made the track. 

I had to move quickly after school in winter because 
time was precious. The sun set early and I had to run like 
mad to find a track. 1 had run all the way to the canal bank 
one day before I picked up an old cotton-tail rabbit track. I 
had learned by this time which way was forward so I fol¬ 
lowed it in that direction through briar patches, weed 


patches, along a fence row, across an open area and into a 
stand of fir trees, down the canal bank, along the ledge at 
the bottom, back up the bank, back through the firs and 
back into a weed patch I had already walked through. 

All this time, the track was wandering. The rabbit hopped 
from side to side, stopped, hopped back along its tracks, 
side-stepped, took to a well used and terribly confusing game 
trail. In general, I think it's safe to say he was having a grand 
old time. Of course, this all happened the night before. 
Rabbits are nocturnal feeders which emerge sometime after 
sun-down and like to bed down just before dawn. 

When tracking, it’s always my habit to look well ahead 
so that heavy undergrowth can be skirted. At the weed 
patch, I looked ahead in the direction the rabbit was travel¬ 
ling. I couldn’t see tracks emerging on the far side. I slowed 
my pace and studied the tracks carefully. I also studied the 
clumps of snow-covered grass. The tracks were now just a 
few inches apart whereas they had been several feet apart 
earlier. I knew there wasn’t an abandoned groundhog hole 
in the weed patch but the cover was not at all sufficient to 
hide a two or three-pound bundle of fur. 

A spot of greyish brown about the size of a 25-cent piece 
caught my eye and 1 froze in my tracks. There seemed, upon 
closer examination, to be a shiny black spot in the centre of 
it. Flashing a glance at the cover, I realized this dark spot 
was grossly out of place. It was my rabbit! My first rabbit! 
To be more correct, it was the eye of my rabbit and that 
eye was zeroed right in on me. 

I had seen hundreds of rabbits before that day. Maybe 
even thousands of rabbits. Who counts? Never was the find¬ 
ing of a rabbit more thrilling than on that grey winter’s 
afternoon. It was like a game of hide and seek and I won. I 
found the track, recognized it, followed it in the right 
direction, unwound it, stuck with it and found my prize 
at the end. 

Although tracking may be practised at any time of year, 
it is easiest in winter when a fresh snow erases the old sign 
and holds only the new. When snow stops falling about an 
hour before dawn, tracking conditions are perfect. Only the 
last hour or so of an animal’s wanderings must then be un¬ 
ravelled to lead you to its den or resting place. 

Any bird or animal that creeps or crawls upon the face 
of the earth in winter can be tracked. That includes every¬ 
thing from a mouse to a moose and a sparrow to a turkey. 
Types of wildlife available for tracking vary throughout the 
province but you will no doubt find an abundance of either 
rabbits or hares within a few miles of wherever you live. 
Simply because of their abundance and their preference to 
remain out of doors when weather is not too severe, you 
might start your tracking exploits with them. 

—Reprinted with permission, Forest Scene 



Standards for Camps 

Les Standards ponr les Camps 


—by John Hasell 

Chairman , National Standards Committee 


The energies of all of us in the camping field are directed 
to furthering the growth and quality of life of children, 
young people and adults through education and recreation 
in the camping field. We are all striving, not just to maintain 
but also to improve the standards of our operations. To this 
end. the development and acceptance of desirable practices 
and standards for camps becomes a vital process. 

Standards of course protect the public by confirming 
that any camp that has been accredited by its Provincial 
Camping Association meets certain criteria. These criteria 
are seen, however, not just as a minimum standard that must 
be met, but as an optimum that must be striven for. A Cer¬ 
tificate of Accreditation indicates that the camp is one of 
the best in the country. 

Each Provincial Camping Association faces unique situa¬ 
tions that may vary widely from those in other parts of the 
country. Some Associations have been in existence for forty 
years or more, whilst others are still in the process of getting 
established. For these reasons, the extent to which each 
Province's standards have been developed varies consider¬ 
ably, but all see the visitation of individual camps by ex¬ 
perienced camping people that leads to accreditation as 
being a vital educational process. These visitations are re¬ 
garded not so much as an inspection as a consultative service 
which will help to up-grade and improve the effectiveness of 
the camp. 

A number of Provinces have Government regulations for 
Summer Camps, and these of course are incorporated into 
the Provincial Camping Standards. These regulations, how¬ 
ever, only cover the essentials such as health and sanitation, 
fire precautions, labour laws and the like, which affect any 
establishment that accommodates members of the public. 
Camps are concerned with far more than just the safety and 
protection of campers and staff. The quality of the experi¬ 
ences provided by the camp in a natural setting is what 
camping is about, and this is where camping practices and 
standards assume their true importance. 

Standards do not mean standardization, nor do they 
remain static. Each camp has its own flavour, emphasis and 
character, and this is recognized as the strength that makes 
it unique. Standards are designed to embrace a wide spec¬ 
trum of camping operations, and specific sets of standards 
are developed for resident camps, day camps and wilderness 
camps. These, however, cover all aspects of each camp's 
operations, and the extent to which these meet the stated 
aims and objectives of the individual camp is considered the 
most important standard of all. 

The standards for each type of camp include an examina¬ 
tion ot all aspects of the camp administration, personnel 
practices, site and facilities and the programme, as well as 
health, sanitation and safety. The camp must have written 


Les efforts de tous les gens dans le domaine dc camping 
sont centralises sur faugmentation et Famelioration delavie 
des enfants, des jeunes et des adultes par l’education et la 
recreation dans le domaine de camping. Nous essayons de 
maintenir et d'ameliorer les standards de nos fonctions. A 
cette fin de developpement et facceptation des standards 
des habitudes desirables pour les camps deviennent un 
travail essentiel. 

Bien sur, les standards protegent la publique en confir- 
mant que tous les camps qui out ete accredites par leur 
Association Provinciate des Camps satisfont certain critere. 
Ce critere n'est pas un standard minimum, mais un haut 
niveau de qualite auquel on doit toujours essayer. Un Certi- 
ficat d'Accreditation indique que le camp est un des meilleurs 
dans le pays. 

Chaque Association Provinciate des Camps confronte des 
situations uniques qui sont extremement differentes de celles 
dans les autres regions du pays. Quelques-uns des Associa¬ 
tions ont etc en existence depuis quarante annees, tandis 
que les autres sont encore en train de s’etablir. Pour ces rai¬ 
sons, les limites auxquelles les standards de chaque province 
ont ete developpes varient beaucoup, mais tout voit la 
visitation des camps individus partes experts en camping qui 
mene a l'accreditation comme etant un vital processus 
educationel. Ces visites ne sont pas une inspection plutot 
une service consultative qui aidera a ameliorer Pefficacite 
du camp. 

Un nombre des provinces ont des regulations gouverne- 
mentaux pour les camps de vacances et naturellement ces 
regulations sont incorporees dans les Standards des Camps 
Provinciaux. Cependant, ces regulations ne concernent que 
la sante et la hygiene, les precautions contre Pincendie, les 
lois de main d'oeuvre et toutes les choses qui concernent les 
etablissements qui s'accommodent aux membres de la pub¬ 
lique. Les camps s'interessent a beaucoup plus que la surete 
et la protection des campeurset du personnel. La qualite des 
nouveautes que le camp offert dans une situation naturelle, 
est ce que le camping s’agit et voici le point ou les habitudes 
et les standards de camping deviennent si important. 

Les standards ne veulent pas dire la standardisation, 
egalement les standards ne doivent pas rester statiques. 
Chaque camp a ses propres attractions, ses propres valeurs 
et son propre caractere, aussi on reconnait que ces attributs 
rendent le camp unique. Les standards sont designes a com- 
prendre un large spectre des fonctions et les standards diffe- 
rents sont developpes pour couvrir toutes les differentes 
sortes de camps. Cependant, le standard le plus important 
est si le camp essaie d'achever ces standards suggeres par 
1'Association. 

Les standards pour chaque sorte de camp comprennent 
d une examination de tous les aspects de fadministration 


:o 







and implemented objectives consistent with good camping 
practices as promoted by the Canadian Camping Association. 
Sound financial control has to be demonstrated through the 
use of budgets, financial statements and properly maintained 
accounts, records and inventories. Adequate insurance is 
another important area that includes comprehensive liability, 
motor vehicle, fire and theft, passenger hazard, as well as 
health and workmen’s compensation. 

As well as making certain that the camp is being soundly 
managed with effective supervision, record keeping and 
evaluation procedures, the visitation or accreditation team 
will make certain that the camp publicity is accurate and 
not misleading. 

Perhaps the most important area to be considered is that 
of the camp programme. It must be effective and safe, and 
emphasis should be on creative outdoor living in a demo¬ 
cratic setting that encourages individual development. It 
should also provide opportunities for strengthening human 
relationships. It must stem from the stated objectives of 
the camp. 

The visitation team will naturally be examining the facili¬ 
ties, site and equipment to make certain that it is suitable, 
and will check that the transportation is being well main¬ 
tained. They will make sure that the diet and feeding 
arrangements are satisfactory, and that all other health 
requirements are being met. These material aspects of course 
must be up to standard, but the effectiveness, style and tone 
of a camp is dependent upon the calibre of the staff. The 
visitors will almost certainly include at least one experienced 
camp director who will be able to assess the effectiveness 
and competence of the staff. This goes beyond just their 
qualifications, training, and such matters as staff to camper 
ratios for specific activities, though all of these are covered 
in the standards against which the camp is assessed. This is 
where the advice the team provides to the camp can be 
invaluable, and perhaps best exemplifies the value of the 
visitation and accreditation procedure, both to the camp 
and the public at large. 

Each Provincial Camping Association has its own Camp¬ 
ing Standards Committee. This is responsible for developing 
Provincial Standards and for visiting and recommending 
camps to the provincial executive for accreditation as having 
met these standards. How often a camp needs to be re¬ 
accredited varies, with some provinces requiring a visit every 
two or three years, but Quebec has developed its programme 
to the point where every camp is re-accredited annually. 

The Canadian Camping Association maintains a National 
Standards Committee with three key functions. The first is 
to develop and up-grade desirable camping standards for all 
types of camps in a universal sense. The second is to help 
the Provincial Associations to develop and strengthen their 
own camping standards and accreditation procedures. The 
third is to formulate, when necessary or appropriate, a 
national position on issues relating to camping standards. 

The National Standards Committee represents all the 
Provincial Associations, and its chief task is to maintain 
good communications between their respective Camping 
Standards Committees. The Committee endeavours to find, 
or to develop, a national perspective that will modify or 
encompass the various provincial interests without suppres¬ 
sing or ignoring any of them. 

National Camping Standards Workshops are held from 
time to time, and provide opportunities for the in-depth 
study of specific problems, as well as enabling those con- 


du camp, des habitudes du personnel, de Passiette et du 
programme, et aussi de la sante, de la hygiene et de la surete. 
Le camp doit avoir les buts ecrits et rendus effectifs qui 
s’accordent avec les bons habitudes de camping suggeres par 
1’Association des Camps du Canada. Un bon controle finan¬ 
cier doit etre demontre par l’usage des budgets, et des releves 
de compte. On doit maintenir aussi des documents, des 
comptes, et des inventaires d’une maniere professionnelle. 
Une police d’assurance qui satisfait tous les besoins du 
camp est une necessite inappreciable. 

L’equipe d’accreditation assurera aussi que l’administra- 
tion du camp est responsable et que la publicite du camp 
n’est pas fausse. 

Peut-etre le domaine le plus important qu’on doit con- 
sidere, est celui du programme du camp. II doit etre effectif 
et sauf et l’emphase doit etre sur la vie creative en dehors, 
dans une situation democratique qui encourage le developpe- 
ment de l’individu. Ce doit etre un but declare par le camp. 

L’equipe des experts examinera, naturellement, les faci- 
lites, l’assiette etTequipement pour assurer qu’ils satisfont 
les besoins et l’equipe assurera aussi que la transportation 
est bien maintenue. On s’assurera aussi que la nourriture est 
adequate et que les exigences de la sante sont realisees. 
Quoique ces choses-ci soient importantes, en effet, c’est le 
niveaux de qualite du personnel qui determine le ton et le 
style du camp. Done l’equipe se composera d’au moins d’un 
directeur experiments en camping qui peut evaluer I’effica- 
cite et la competence du personnel. II jugera le personnel 
sur un base plus large que seulement selon les qualifications 
(quoique celles-ci soient aussi des standards importants) et 
selon le rapport du personnel aux campeurs. Void le do¬ 
maine dans lequel le conseil de l’equipe peut etre si impor¬ 
tant au camp et a la publique en general. 

Chaque Association Provinciate des Camps a son propre 
Comite des Standards des Camps. Ce groupe-ci est respon¬ 
sable pour le developpement des standards provinciaux et 
pour la visitation de l’equipe et pour la recommandation 
des camps au Comite Provincial pour l’accreditation. 

Le besoin pourl’accreditation varie dans chaque province, 
quelques-uns sont raccredites tous les deux ou tous les trois 
annees tandis qu’au Quebec chaque camp est raccredite 
chaque annee. 

L’Association des Camps du Canada maintientun Comite 
National des Standards qui a trois buts principaux. Premiere- 
ment le developpement et l’amelioration des standards pour 
toutes sortes de camps. Deuxiemement le developpement 
des Associations Provinciaux pour developper leurs propres 
standards et procedes pour l’accreditation. Finalement est 
la formulation, si necessaire, d’une opinion nationale sur 
certaines questions dans le domaine du camping. 

Le Comite National des Standards represente toutes les 
Associations provinciaux et son but principal est de main¬ 
tenir de bonne communication avec leurs Comites des 
Standards du Camping. 

On a des reunions de temps en temps pour discuter les 
standards du camping et celles donnent aussi des oppor¬ 
tunity pour examiner en detail les problemesspecifiqueset 
pour ceux associes avec camping, de rencontrer l’un l’autre. 
La distribution d’un sommaire des proces-verbal des seances 
des comites provinciaux des Standards assure que tout le 
monde sait les demieres nouvelles. 

Toutes les provinces ont adopte un format standard pour 
leurs standards du camping qui permet facilement une com¬ 
parison l’un avec l’autre, et les nouveaux standards sont 


21 



Give 
it to 
yourself 
-friends 
too! 

Canada s only popular geographical maga¬ 
zine tells all about our country Authoritative 
articles, for easy popular reading, and 
profusely illustrated You can become a mem¬ 
ber of The Royal Canadian Geographical 
Society and get the Journal every month for 
only S8 a year Membership is open to any per¬ 
son interested in geographical matters Join 
today 1 Use the coupon below 
Gift memberships make wonderful presents at 
any time, at the same $8 rate 
Send full instructions by letter to the address 
below 


■ Royal Canadian Geographical Society CCM-lj 

! 488 Wilbrod St . Ottawa. Ont KIN 6M8 

| □ Enrol me as a Society member and subscriber ■ 

■ to Canadian Geographical Journal I enclose . 
J S8 00 

■ (Send cheque or money order) 

0 Print Name_ | 

I Address- * 

| City or Town_Prov_n 

■ Postal Code_ B 

I-- 


cerned to meet and get to know one 
another. The distribution by the Na¬ 
tional Chairman of a digest of the 
Minutes of the various Provincial 
Standards Committee meetings keeps 
everyone informed as to what is hap¬ 
pening in other provinces. Maximum 
use is also made of any cross-country 
travel to call upon Provincial Stand¬ 
ards Committees to exchange informa¬ 
tion and ideas. 

The Provinces have all adopted a 
standard format for their camping 
standards, which thus provides an easy 
comparison between them. As new 
standards are developed for different 
types of camp the same format is fol¬ 
lowed, which again makes comparison 
straight-forward. 

Through our Standards Committees 
we are endeavouring to make certain 
that every camper in Canada can be 
provided with a really worthwhile and 
enjoyable camping experience that will 
promote personal growth. After all, 
that is why we go to camp in the 
first place. ■ 

developpes selon le meme format. 

Les Comites de Standards essaient 
d’assurer que chaque campeur au 
Canada peut-etre pourvoir avec une 
experience en camping qui est plaisante 
et qui vaut la peine. Apres tout,c’est la 
raison on va au camp. ■ 



ALL CAMPER'S CLOTHING AND 
BELONGINGS 

should be marked for easy identification 
and to avoid loss. 

CAMP LINEN AND EQUIPMENT, TOO, 
should be marked to avoid confusion 
and loss. 

NAMES OR NUMBERS CAN BE 
SUPPLIED. 

Order CASH'S NAME TAPES from 
department stores and other dealers — 
or direct from 

CASH'S 

CANADA LABELS LIMITED 

BOX 1 239, PETERBOROUGH, 
ONTARIO K9J 7H5 

PRINTED NAME PRICES 

6 doz. $3.20 9 doz. $3.65 

12doz. $4.50 24 doz. $5.50 

No C. O. D.s. Please mail cheque or 
money order. 

(Ontario Residents add 7% retail sales tax) 



1 y \ I 1 /^\ r —V > — -V 


'ffif CAMP MAROMAC 

i ftMMM A im 


\g7 LAC OUENOUILLE 

r Y Boys ***girjs.. 

ii Hnikoka, Ontario 



360 Acre campsite with completely private lake 


(Os/Aer and c3ijd IflLarooiicii 

in Lake Rosseau Area 


OWNERS - DIRECTORS 

49 girls and 49 boys ages 7-14 



Shirley and Ted Yard, Camp Directors 


4548 - 8th ST., CHOMEDEV 

ROSSEAU P.O. MUSKOKA ONTARIO 


Laval. Quebec Tel. 688-1753 


Custom-made Waterproof Vinyl Decals with name of 
Camp and one line of activities in English or French. 
Choose your colour for text and background. 
Approximate size 4" x 13" 

Minimum 500, 40d each • 1000, 35d each 
2000 - 4000, 30d each • 5000 or more, 25 i each 
May retail at 59 i or 69 i each 
Taxes , Shipping Included 
Add $3.00 for C.O.D. Orders 
Prepaid or Postdated 30 days accepted 
Text or information to: 

PHOTOCARDS REG'D. 

P.O. Box 177, St-Hubert, P.Q. Tel.: 514-656-3975 


POSTCARDS OF FOLLOWING CATEGORIES: 

Camping □ Scenery □ Beaches □ Cats □ Dogs □ 
Wild Animals □ Fishing □ Winter Activities □ 
Indians & Eskimos □ Mounties □ Cartoons □ 

Jet Planes □ Horses □ Birds □ Wild Flowers □ 
Antique Cars □ 

Minimum per Category — 100 
Total minimum - 1000, $60.00 • 2000, $105.00 
3000 or more, $45.00 per 1000 
Prices include 6 lines of your text, taxes and shipping. 
C.O.D. Orders add $3.00 
Prepaid or Postdated 30 days accepted 

PHOTOCARDS REG'D. 

P.O. Box 177, St-Hubert, P.Q. Tel.: 514-656-3975 


11 























Canadian Camping 
national Directory 
Annuaiie national des Camp/ 

1075 




Index 


. 


ALBERTA CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

B.C. CAMPING ASSOCIATION . 

MANITOBA CAMPING ASSOCIATION . 

NEW BRUNSWICK CAMPING ASSOCIATION / ASSOCIATION DE CAMPING DU NOUVEAU-BRUNSWICK 
NEWFOUNDLAND & LABRADOR CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

NOVA SCOTIA CAMPING ASSOCIATION . 

ONTARIO CAMPING ASSOCIATION . 

L'ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU QUEBEC (Section franpaise) 

QUEBEC CAMPING ASSOCIATION (English section) . 

SASKATCHEWAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION . 


. . . 




24 

32 

37 

43 

44 
47 
49 
61 
72 
79 


Commercial use of this National Canadian Camping Association Directory can be made upon application to the Managing Director, Canadian 
Camping Magazine, 102 Eglinton Avenue East, Suite 203, Toronto, Ontario M4P 1 El. 

II est possible d'utiliser le Bottin National de I'A.C.C. pour fins de reclame en communicant avec le Gerant general de la Revue Canadian 
Camping, 102 Eglinton Avenue East, Suite 203, Toronto, Ontario M4P 1E1. 


In choosing your child's camp 
be sure . . . 

1. Adequate accident and emergency methods and procedures 
are established and used. 

2. There is one person completely responsible for your child's 
welfare at all times. 

3. Sufficient medical attention is available (R.N. in attendance, 
doctor on call, well equipped infirmary). 

4. Sleeping, eating and sanitary facilities are safe, comfortable, 
well-spaced and well-ventilated; activity equipment and facilities 
are adequate. 

5. Camp program is varied, well balanced and flexible to fit the 
individual camper's need for self-expression. 

6. There is opportunity to develop social relationships, new 
experiences and leadership skills. 

7. Camp director has a sound camping background and an under¬ 
standing of children; the counsellors are mature, well trained 
and experienced. 

8. The ratio of campers to counsellors is satisfactory to provide 
safe conditions and opportunity for group interaction. 

9. You understand all aspects of the camp's fee structure and 
the rationale which supports it. 

10. You are prepared to follow and support camp policy with 
regard to your child and to ready him adequately for the 
new experience. 

11. You make the camp aware of any special needs or considera¬ 
tions (physical or emotional) of your child, and the camp is 
prepared to meet them to your satisfaction. 

12. You talk with parents of children who have attended the 
camp or with campers themselves; if possible, you visit the 
camp. 

13. The camp is a member of a provincial camping association. 


Dans le choix d'un camp pour votre enfant 
assurez-vous . . . 

1. que des mesures et procedes adequats sont etablis en cas 
d'accident et en cas d'urgence. 

2. que la presence d'une personns responsable du bien-etre de 
votre enfant est assume en tout temps. 

3. qu'il y a des soins m^dicaux suffisants en tout temps. (Garde- 
malade diplomee sur place, un medecin responsable du camp 
et une infirmerie bien equippee.) 

4. que les dortoirs, refectoires et endroits sanitaires assurent secu¬ 
rity et comfort, procurent suffisamment d'espace et de ventila¬ 
tion; et que les endroits et I'equipement a fin recreative sont 
adequats. 

5. que I'agenda est variee et flexible afin de favoriser le developpe- 
ment de la personnalite de chaque participant. 

6. que le camp conduit a de meilleures relations sociales, de 
nouvelles experiences permettant I'epanouissement desqualites 
de chef. 

7. que le directeur a une profonde comprehension des enfants et 
I'experience du camping; que les moniteurs ont de la maturite, 
de I'experience et un certain entrainement dans la direction 
d'un camp. 

8. que le nombre des campeurs et des moniteurs est proportionne 
afin de favoriser un meilleur controle du bien-etre de chaque 
campeur et de I'interaction a I'interieur du groupe. 

9. que vous acceptez tous les aspects financiers et comprenez les 
raisons du montant exige pour la duree du camp. 

10. que vous etes prets a seconder la politique du camp et a pre¬ 
parer adequatement votre enfant avant de le lancer vers cette 
nouvelle experience. 

11. que tous besoins ou considerations speciales (physiques ou 
emotives) concernant votre enfant, ont ete discute avec la 
direction du camp et resolu a votre satisfaction. 

12. que les parents des campeurs precedents et les campeurs eux- 
memes sont satisfaits de leur experience; si possible, visitez 
le camp. 

13. que le camp est membre d'une association provincials de 
camping. 
























Alberto Comping A//od<ition 

332 - 6th Avenue S.W. " * 

Calgary, Alberta T2P 0R5 
Telephone: (403) 269-6156 


EXECUTIVE 1974-75 


President 

Gerry Cragg, Calgary 

635 Northmount Dr., N.W. 
T2K 3J6 

289-0221 

Past President 

Miss Jan James, Edmonton 
10943 - 72 Avenue 

T6G OBI 

435-5483 

Vice-President 

(Standards) 

Nestor Kelba, Calgary 

R.R. No. 2, Calgary 

T2P 2G5 

687-2616 

Vice-President 

(Education) 

Gary Luthy, Calgary 

YMCA, 332 - 6 Ave. S.W. 
T2P 0R5 

269-6156 

Secretary 

Miss Fen Roessingh, Calgary 
c/o 332 - 6 Ave. S.W. 

T2P 0R5 

269-6156 

Treasurer 

Bill Hawley, Calgary 

No. 300, 444 - 5 Ave. S.W. 
T2P 2T8 

264-3700 


COMMITTEES 


Membership 

c/o A.C.A., Calgary 

332 - 6 Ave. S.W. 

T2P0R5 

269-6156 

Legislation & 
Funding 

Miss Jan James, Edmonton 
10943 -72 Ave. 

T6G 0B1 

435-5483 

Newsletter 

Mrs. Laura Spensley, Calgary 
2402 - 27 Street S.W. 

T3E 2G3 

249-1817 

Seminar 

Al Schaffer, Calgary 

712-5 Street S.W. 

T2G 2W8 

265-9465 

Archives 

Jim McVeigh, Calgary 

3027 -33A Ave. S.E. 

T2B 0J9 

272-7012 


ALBERTA CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

The Alberta Camping Association is a Provincial Section of the Canadian Camping Association (which was incorporated by 
Letters Patent at Ottawa, November 5, 1949). 

This is an organization that believes in organized camping as an educational recreational movement located in the out-of-doors 
setting, dedicated to furthering the growth and development of children through experiencing group life under qualified 
persons. 

The objectives of the Alberta Camping Association are: 

1. To further the interests and welfare of children, youths and adults through camping as an educative, 
character-building and constructive recreational experience. 

2. To act as an Alberta promotional and coordinating body for camping through this province. 

3. To develop, maintain and recognize high standards in camping. 

4. To represent member groups and to serve as a contact between the government and those groups, and 
to keep people informed of governmental developments and regulations. 

5. To interpret and disseminate knowledge concerning camping in general and to study the wider aspects 
of the camping movement. 

All this is brought about by a volunteer group of camp directors, leaders, counsellors, who strive to bring these objectives 
about. 

No one associated with the Alberta Camping Association receives any monetary compensation or gain of any kind. 

Any group or individual who shares the aims and objectives of the Alberta Camping Association in Alberta is welcome to 
apply for membership. 

The Alberta Camping Association has no direct control over any of its member groups, and therefore does not undertake to 
recommend any camp or person. 

CAMP ACCREDITATION PROGRAM 

One of the major objectives of the Camping Association is to improve camping standards, and to achieve this, the association 
established minimum standards in 1970. These standards cover facilities, health, sanitation, safety, staff and administration. 
Member camps may apply for accreditation under this program. Members of the standards committee will visit the camp and 
discuss the facilities and operation with the camp Director. If the standards are met, the camp is accredited. 

The Accreditation is for a two-year duration. At the end of two years, the camp will be contacted to determine if a new visit 
is necessary. Accreditation is not transferable from site to site, nor from owner to owner. Should either occur then a revisit 
would become necessary. 

The program has been a great help to many camps, as it provides a yardstick to measure their performance. It is primarily 
educational, and will eventually be tied closely with the education and staff training program now being developed by the 
Association. 


24 



Although in the initial stages providing the necessary staff to visit the many camps that have applied for accreditation has 
been a problem, the program has been of great benefit for both the camp Directors and the visiting teams. For the parents of 
camp children, the program provides assurance that the standards set by the association are maintained in member camps. 

The standards and the way to apply them are under continuing critical examination and they will be changed from time to 
time to meet the needs of our members. 


Camp Adventure 

Camp B'Nai B'Rith 

Canyon Church Camp 

Camp Chamisall 

Champ Chestermere 

Christian Youth Camps (Maskepetoon) 

City of Calgary Day Camps 

Covenant Bay Bible Camp 

Crowsnest Lake Bible Camp 

Frontier Lodge 

Camp Gardner 

Gull Lake Baptist Camp 

James River Bible Camp 

Camp Kananaskis 


Alberta Camp Cherith 
Alberta Conference Camp Committee 
Alberta Evangelical Camp 
Bar Harbour Camp 
Boys Clubs of Edmonton 
C.G.l.T. Camp Council 
Canadian Mental Health Ass'n. — 
Edmonton 
Camp Caroline 

Christian Camping International 
Elkwater United Church Camp 


ACCREDITED CAMPS 

Camp Kasota - West 
Kiwanis Kamp 

Camp Mockingbird (see Girl Guides) 
Moose Lake Gospel Camp 
Nazarene Youth Camp 
Camp Okotoks 
Pine Lake Camp 
Pioneer Camps 
— Pioneer Lodge 
— Pioneer Ranch 
Silvercreek Ranch 
Surprise Lake Camp 
Teen Time of Edmonton — 

Moose Lake Camp 


MEMBER CAMPS 

Girl Guides of Canada — 

Alberta Council 

Girl Guides of Canada — Calgary Area 
Girl Guides of Canada — Chinook Area 

1. Camp Okeekun 

2. Elkwater Camp 

Girl Guides of Canada — Edmonton Area 

Camp He- Ho- Ha 

Camp Kannawin 

Mill Creek Baptist Camp 

Mount Royal College 


Camp Silversides (provisional accred.) 

Camp Teepee Pole 

Camp Van-Es 

Camp Wapiti 

Camp Wo He Lo 

Y.M.C.A. Calgary 

1. Camp Chief Hector 

2. Camping and Outdoor Education 

Centre 

3. Wilderness One 

4. Camp Y-Tic — Day camp 
Y.W.C.A. Calgary 

1. Camp Kinnaird 

2. Mini Camp 


Mulhurst Lutheran Church Camp 

Nakamun Camp 

Skysta 

St. Mary's Camp 

University of Alberta 

University of Calgary 

Camp Valaqua 

Whispering Pines Bible Camp 

Wilderness Encounter 

Y.W.C.A. — Edmonton Y.W.C.A. Camps 


ACCREDITED MEMBER CAMPS 


CAMP ADVENTURE (Boys' Clubs of Calgary) 


Mobile Camps: 
Resident Camp: 
Season: 

Fees: 

Location: 

Program: 


Purpose: 


Contact Person: 


Teens 13-16 year? 

Boys and girls 8 - 13 years 
July - August. Five ten-day periods for boys 
and girls, longer for teens 13 - 16 years 
Available upon request 
Sibbald Lake — Bow Valley Forest 
Waterfront, outtripping, outdoor education acti¬ 
vities, mobile mountaineering and canoe pro¬ 
gram for teens. 

To provide a learning and fun experience in the 
out-of-doors with special opportunities for skill 
development and for social development through 
group living. 

Mr. Al Schaffer 

Camp Office, Boys Clubs of Calgary 

712 - 5th Street S.W., Calgary, Alta. T2G 2W8 

Phone: 265-9465 


CAMP B'NAI B'RITH (north-west Canada Council of 
B'Nai B'Rith) 


Resident Camp: 
Capacity: 

Fees: 

Camping Season: 

Location: 

Purpose: 

Contact Person: 


Rental: 


Ages 8 - 16 years 

150 each three-week session 

$250 per three-week session 

Two three-weeks — sessions begin July 

Pine Lake 

The camp provides a recreational and cultural 
experience for Jewish children. 

Dr. William A. Meloff, Director 

71 Quesnell Road, Edmonton, Alta. T5R 5N1 

Phone: 436-2084 

Business Office: 1107, 10235 — 124 Street 
Edmonton. Phone 488-8088 
Available May and June 


CANYON CHURCH CAMP (Canyon Church Camp Ass'n. 

United Church of Canada) 

Resident Camp: 

Location: Waterton Lakes Park 

Program: Climbing, outtripping, utilization of National 

Park hiking trails. 

One-week mountain holiday for Senior Citizens. 
Contact Person: Mrs. Alice Cleland 

Box 1422, Pincher Creek, Alberta T0K 1W0 


CAMP CHAMISALL (Christian and Missionary Alliance 
Churches of Southern Alberta) 


Resident Camp: 
Fees: 

Camping Season: 
Location: 
Contact Person: 


Program: 

Purpose: 


50 co-ed 9-18 years (in 6 age groups) 

$25.00 per week for first child in family 
$13.00 per week each additional child 
July and August 
Waiparous River 
Mr. Ron Carter 

4507 Richmond Road S.W., Calgary, 

Alberta T3E 4P9 
Phone: 242-6046 
Outtripping 

We operate under a written constitution — 
copy is available on request. 


CAMP CHESTERMERE (The Gospel Missionary Ass'n.) 


Resident Camp: 

Fees: 

Location: 
Contact Persons: 


Purpose: 


Co-ed ages 8 - college age 

Winter Program 

Available upon request 

S.E. corner, Chestermere Lake 

Mr. Grant Williams Mr. P. Furseth 

Bag 3900 Box 21, Site No. 2 

Station B, Calgary R.R.7 Calgary 


T2M 4M5 T2P 2G7 

Phone: 272-9548 

Spiritual, social, physical, mental development. 
A Christian camp. 

Available for rent. 


25 


CHRISTIAN YOUTH CAMPS (Inc. Camp Maskepetoon) 


Youth Camp 

Capacity: 

Location: 

Fees: 

Season: 

Contact Person: 


Facilities: 
Ren tals: 
Purpose: 


80 campers, youths ages 8 * 20 
30 - 40 staff 

North side of Pigeon Lake 

$38.00 per week (includes transportation) 

8 one-week camps, July and August 
Dr. Bruce Yoneda 
College Plaza No. 1, 

Edmonton, Alberta 

Main lodge and ten log cabins. 

Year round except in summer months 
Christian youth camping with boating, outdoor 
camping and hiking. 


CITY OF CALGARY - DAY CAMPS 

(Parks and Recreation Dept.) 


Capacity: 

Fees: 

Camping Season: 
Location: 
Contact Person: 


Purpose: 


300 campers every two weeks — 5 camps 

$12.50 per camp period 

July and August 

Calgary (in five city parks) 

Bill Robinson 

P.O. Box 2100, Parks & Recreation Dept. 
Calgary, Alta. T2P 2M5 
Phone: 268-5211 

An introduction to camping, camping skills and 
nature. We cover camping, nature lore and 
crafts, hiking, archery, sing-songs and general 
camping activities and skills. 


COVENANT BAY BIBLE CAMP (Alberta Missionary 


Fees: 

Location: 
Contact Person: 


Purpose: 


Society) 

$15.00 
Pigeon Lake 
H.E. Bradford 

Box 88, Warburg, Alberta TOC 2T0 
Phone: 848-2363 
Bible Camp. 


Contact Person: Mr. Bob Schwartzenberger, P.O. Box 3247 

Station B, Calgary, Alta. T2M 4L8 
Phone: 283-4993 
Camp is available for rent. 

Purpose: To help boys develop their characters and to 

become resourceful and responsible members of 
the community by providing opportunities and 
guidance for their mental, physical, social and 
spiritual development. 


GULL LAKE BAPTIST CAMP (Baptist Union of 

Western Canada) 


Location: 
Resident Camp: 
Capacity: 

Off-site Camps: 


Fees per Week: 
Contact Persons: 


Purpose: 


McLaurin Beach, Gull Lake, Alberta 
9 years and over 

84 campers per week, family camp 125 
Mounting Hiking — 14 years and over 
Canoe Trip — 15 years and over 
Limited Registration. 

$30.00, off-site $35.00 

Mrs. V. Harbidge Mr. R. Olson 

2744 Lougheed Dr. R.R.3, McLaurin Beach 

S.W., Calgary, Lacombe, Alta. 

Alta. T3E 5T8 Phone: 782-2192 

Phone: 246-9570 

To provide an opportunity for a recreational 
experience; to grow in harmony with God, His 
people and His universe. 


JAMES RIVER BIBLE CAMP (Missionary Church) 


Location: 

Rental: 

Facilities: 


Contact Person: 


On James River — 9 miles north, VA miles west 
of Sundre, Alberta 

Available for rent complete with catering service 
Full weeks and week-ends. 

Washroom and showers, power outlets for trail¬ 
ers. 24 cabins, Auditorium, dining hall. Boating, 
Hiking, swimming facilities nearby. 

Winter skiing. 

Mr. Willard Stauffer 

R.R. 1, Didsbury, Alberta TOM 0W0 

Phone: 335-3715 


CROWSNEST LAKE BIBLE CAMP (Crowsnest Lake 
Bible Camp Association) 

Resident outtripping camp 


Capacity: 

Fees: 

Camping Season: 

Location: 

Program: 

Contact Persons: 


Purpose: 


100 girls 9-12 years. 100 boys 12-17 years 
100 co-ed 18 and over, 20 families 
No fees for own camp. Available upon request 
for renting. 

Camp is fully winterized for year-round use. 

8 miles west of Coleman 

Climbing, outtripping, cookouts, skating, skiing. 
James Burton Dr. Cy Bryant 

320 — 46 Ave. S.W. Box 820, Pincher Creek 

Calgary T2S 1 B6 Alta. T0K 1W0 

Phone: 243-1206 Phone: 627-3041 

To develop a whole camper, physically, men¬ 
tally and socially, spiritually. 


FRONTIER LODGE (Alberta Youth for Christ) 


Wilderness Camp — ages 12-18 


Capacity: 

Fees: 

Camping Season: 
Emphasis: 
Location: 
Contact Person: 


Purpose: 


50 girls, 150 boys 
Available upon request 
11 day periods, July and August 
Outtripping 

Shunda (Fish) Lake, 5 miles west of Nordegg 
Frontier Lodge, Box 1449 
Rocky Mountain House, Alta. TOM 1T0 
Phone: 721-2202 

To provide a positive approach to the problems 
faced by young people, to create an atmosphere 
of physical, mental, social and spiritual aware¬ 
ness for campers. 


CAMP GARDNER (Boy Scouts of Canada — 

Calgary Regional Council) 

Resident Wilderness Camp 

Capacity: 700 per summer, 8-16 years 

Fees: Available on request 

Season: 3 days up to 14 day periods in July and August. 

Group camping year round. Pioneer, riding and 
outtripping. 


CAMP KANANASKIS (Anglican Diocese of Calgary) 

Resident Camps (youth) 


Capacity: 

Fees: 

Location: 
Contact Person: 


Purpose: 


60 campers, girls, boys, co-ed 8-15 years 
$40.00 per week 

Kananaskis Forest Reserve, Seebee 

Mr. Dave Brown, No. 405, 314 - 14 St. N.W. 

Calgary, Alta. T2N 1Z7 

Phone: 283-9084 

Christian living. 

Camp is available for rent. 


CAMP KASOTA - WEST (Calgary Presbytery of 

United Church of Canada) 

Resident camp: children, youth, and adults 


Capacity: 

Fees: 

Location: 
Camping Season: 
Contact Person: 


Purpose: 


Program: 


80 campers, 6 - 98 years 
$45.00 per week 
Sylvan Lake 

July - August (6 one-week camps) 

Mr. Jim McVeigh, 3027 - 33A Ave. S.E. 
Calgary, Alta. T2B 0J9 
Phone: 272-7012 

To provide a well-rounded, supervised camp 
experience in which sports, camping skills and 
fellowship are underlined by a planned program 
of Christian Education. 

Waterfront, outtripping, singing, Christian Edu¬ 
cation program, archery. 

Rental Available in off-season. 


KIWANIS KAMP (Downtown Kiwanis Club — Calgary) 

Resident Camp 


Capacity: 

Fees: 

Location: 
Camping Season: 
Contact: 


Purpose: 

Program: 


80 girls 9-12 years; 80 boys 9-12 years 
Sponsored by Kiwanis Club 
Springbank 
Four 10-day periods 

Camp Chairman, Kamp Kiwanis, Room 40 
Pal User Hotel, Calgary, Alta. 

Phone: 262-2900 

To give a camping experience to those children 
who would not otherwise have one. 

Waterfront 


26 


MOOSE LAKE GOSPEL CAMP 


Resident Camp 

Capacity: 

Fees: 

Location: 
Contact Person: 


150 per camp (girls, boys, co-ed, family: 1 week 
each in July) 

Available upon request 
Moose Lake, with waterfront facilities 
Mr. Cecil Quist, Marwayne, Alta. TOB 2X0 
Phone: 847-3738 


NAZARENE YOUTH CAMP (Canada West District- 

Church of the Nazarene) 


Resident Camp: one 

Capacity: 

Fees: 

Camping Season: 
Location: 

Program: 

Purpose: 


Contact Person: 


week periods 

girls 70, boys 70, co-ed 140, family 300 
Available upon request 
June to August 

On Little Red Deer River, Harmatten, 15 miles 

west of Olds on Hiway 27 

Swimming pool, sports, outtripping 

To help campers toward a full and wholesome 

life through a personal relationship with God 

and an understanding of His Love. 

Mr. E. Trevor Morgan 

Box 444, Sundre, Alta. TOM 1X0 

Phone: 225-3689 


CAMP OKOTOKS (Camp Okotoks Society) 

(c/o Bethal Chapel, 2323 Osborne Cr. S.W. # Calgary) 

Accredited camp site suitable for resident camp rented to church 
organizations for all camp periods. 


Capacity: 

Fees: 

Location: 

Season: 

Contact Person: 


Purpose: 


100 per camp period, 9 years and up 
$15.00 per week 

2 miles east of Okotoks on the Sheep River 
July and August 


Mr. Chester Siple 
Box 627, Okotoks, 
Alta. T0L 1T0 


Mr. R.J. Blair 
418 - 10 Ave. N.W. 

Calgary T2M 0B5 
Phone: 276-7383 

Outdoor living and instruction with emphasis 
on Christian living. 

Camp available for rent. 


PINE LAKE CAMP (Salvation Army) 


Resident Camp — 

Capacity: 

Fees: 

Contact Person: 


Purpose: 


multi-purpose 
150 — all ages 

Daily $2.50; $25.00 per week 
Major Fred Halliwell 

Salvation Army, Rom. 404, 10102 — 101 St. 
Edmonton, Alta. T5J 0S5 
Phone: 423-2111 

Camp for Scouts, Guides, Brownies, Cubs, 
Senior Citizens, Bible Fellowship, music, wel¬ 
fare, wilderness camps, for schools and retreats. 
Available for rent in off-season to selected 


groups. 


PIONEER CAMPS (Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship) 


PIONEER LODGE (I.V.C.F.) 


Resident Camp 

Capacity: 

Location: 

Fees: 

Season: 

Emphasis: 

Contact Person: 


100 boys or girls or co-ed 

10 miles from Sundre on Red Deer River 

$160.00 for two weeks 

Year round 

Riding, riflery, archery, and other usual, swim¬ 
ming, outtripping, snow activities 
Pioneer Lodge 

8611 - 109 St., Edmonton T6G 1 E7 
Mr. Donald Cunningham 
Box 237, Sundre, Alta. TOM 1 X0 
Phone: 225-3505 

Available for rent January, June, September. 


PIONEER RANCH CAMP (I.V.C.F.) 


Resident Camp 

Capacity: 

Fees: 

Season: 

Emphasis: 

Location: 

Contact Person: 


150 all ages 

$160.00 for two weeks 
July and August 

Riding, riflery, archery and other usual, swim¬ 
ming 

Crimson Lake, 10 miles west and north of 
Rocky Mountain House 
Pioneer Camps 

8611 — 109 St., Edmonton, Alta. T6G 1 E7 


SILVERCREEK RANCH (Mr. & Mrs. Hank Roessingh) 


Resident Camp 

Capacity: 

Camping Season: 
Fees: 

Contact: 


Program: 

Location: 

Purpose: 


Rental: 


80 co-ed ages 7 - 14 (higher age bracket at some 
periods) 

July and August 

Available upon request 

Mr. & Mrs. Hank Roessingh 

540 - 49 Ave. S.W., Calgary, Alta. T2S 1G5 

Phone: 243-4929 

Riding, cultural exchange, outdoor science 
Water Valley 

To provide an educational and recreational 
experience in the outdoors; to provide an 
opportunity to meet and play and work with 
young Canadians from other geographical, 
social and ethnic backgrounds. 

Available for rent September to June 


SURPRISE LAKE CAMP (United Church of Canada) 


Resident Camp 

Capacity: 

Fees: 

Camping Season: 
Location: 
Contact Person: 


56 co-ed ages 10-17 years 
Available upon request 
July and August 
Surprise Lake 
Mr. McDevitt 

14504 - 107 A Ave., Edmonton, Alta. T5N 1G5 
Phone: 455-3909 


TEEN TIME OF EDMONTON - Moose Lake Camp 
Resident Camp: 9 day periods — August — ages 12-19 years 
Location: Moose Lake near Bonnyville 

Contact Person: Wally Sczebel 

9523 Jasper Ave., Edmonton, Alta. T5M 3V2 
Phone: 429-1901 

Purpose: To provide an enjoyable experience in camping 

and to provide opportunity for development of 
a balanced life socially, spiritually, physically 
and mentally. 

CAMP TEEPEE POLE (Christian Service Brigade) 

Wilderness Camp 

Capacity: 60 boys 9 to 18 years 

Location: Teepee Pole Creek, Sundre 

Fees: Available upon request 

Contact Person: Al Brunner 

17708 - 85 Ave., Edmonton, Alta. T5T 0N6 


CAMP VAN-ES (The Moravian Church) 


Resident Camp 

Capacity: 

Location: 

Fees: 

Contact Person: 
Purpose: 


65 campers 
South Cooking Lake 
Available upon request 
Mr. Alfred Harke 

R.R.2, Box 125, S. Edmonton, T6C 4E6 
To give campers an understanding of and rela¬ 
tionship with God: to help each camper at his 
own stage of development, to discover Christian 
ways of living with each other and to find satis¬ 
faction in making his relationships with others 
increasingly Christian. 


CAMP WAPITI (McLaurin Baptist Church) 


Resident Camp 

Capacity: 

Location: 

Season: 

Contact Person: 


Purpose: 


124 co-ed 8-15 years 
Wapiti River, Grande Prairie 
July 

Mrs. Maxine Mollinga 
Box 175, Clairmont, Alberta 
Phone: 567-3954 

To experience Christian growth, to learn camp¬ 
ing skills and to develop a greater respect for 
nature. 


CAMP WO HE LO (Edmonton C.G.l.T. Camp Committee) 


Resident Camp 

Location: 

Ages: 

Contact Person: 


Pigeon Lake 

12-17 years 

Mrs. G.E. Blake 

Apt. 208, 9511 - 80 Street, 

Edmonton, Alberta T6C 2S9 


27 


y.M.C.A. CALGARY 
1. CAMP CHIEF HECTOR 


Resident Camp 

Capacity: 

Location: 

Season: 

Purpose: 


Program: 


Contact Person: 


Fees: 


648 boys and girls aged 10*16 (216 each period) 
45 miles west of Calgary adjacent to the Trans 
Canada Hiway 
May to September 

The development of person in spirit, mind and 
body and in a sense of responsibility to each 
other and to the human community. 
Backpacking, canoeing, waterfront, horseback 
riding, pioneering program for older boys and 
girls. 

Gary Luthy 

332 - 6 Ave. S.W., Calgary, Alta. T2P 0R5 
Phone: 269-6156 
Available upon request 
Available for spring and fall. 


2. CAMPING AND OUTDOOR EDUCATION CENTRE 

Capacity: 72 in dormitory accommodation 

Location: 45 miles west of Calgary adjacent to the Trans 

Canada Hiway 

Season: Year round 

Purpose: To provide a unique environment for education 

and recreation. 

Programs: The centre is used for year-round programs, 

outdoor education programs, conferences and 
seminars, family camps, winter camps, training 
programs, specialty camps. 

Contact Person: Gary Luthy 

332 - 6 Ave. S.W., Calgary, Alta. T2P 0R5 
Phone: 269-6156 

Fees: Available upon request 

Rental: Available for rent on a year-round basis. 


3. WILDERNESS ONE (Wilderness Camp) 


Capacity: 

Location: 

Season: 

Purpose: 

Program: 

Contact Person: 


Fees: 


48 co-ed 15-19 years (24 per period) 
Kananaskis Forest Reserve 
July and August 

An experience in personal growth. 

Mountain climbing, backpacking, wilderness 
survival. 

Gary Luthy 

332 - 6 Ave. S.W., Calgary, Alta. T2P 0R5 
Phone: 269-6156 
Available upon request. 


4. CAMP Y-TIC (Day Camp) 


Capacity: 

Location: 

Season: 

Purpose: 

Program: 

Contact Person: 


Fees: 


440 boys and girls aged 7 to 12 (110 per period) 

Twin Bridges 

July and August 

An "out-of-town" day camp 

Daily bus trips,day hikes, sleep outs, swimming, 

horse back riding 

Gary Luthy 

332 - 6 Ave. S.W., Calgary, Alta. T2P 0R5 
Phone: 269-6156 
Available upon request. 


Y.W.C.A. - CALGARY 


1. CAMP KINNAIRD 

Girls' Residence Camp 


Capacity: 
Location: 
Season: 

Fees: 

Purpose: 

Emphasis: 
Contact Person: 


75 girls 8 to 16 years of age 
Sylvan Lake 
July and August 
Available upon request 

Personal development as well as growth withi 
a group 

Swimming, canoeing, outtripping 
Camp Director, Y.W.C.A. 

320 - 5 Ave. S.E., Calgary, Alta. T2G 0E5 
Phone: 263-1550 
The camp site may be rented 

2. MINI-CAMP (Y.W.C.A.) 

Day Camp for boys and girls from 5 to 12 years of age 
Season: July and August 

Capacity: 50 boys and girls 

Fees: Available on request 

Location: Rural setting a short drive from Calgary 

Purpose: To introduce children to outdoor campinc 

increase their awareness of their natural sur 


Rental: 


roundings, and to provide opportunities for 
socialization with children and adults other than 
school friends or family. 

Emphasis: Nature crafts and exploration, swimming, over¬ 

night sleepout, and socializing. 

Contact Person: Day Camp Director, Y.W.C.A. 

320 - 5 Avenue S.E., Calgary, Alta. T2G 0E5 
Phone: 263-1550 


PROVISIONAL ACCREDITATION 


CAMP SILVERSIDES (Canadian Sunday School Mission) 


Resident Camp 

Capacity: 

Location: 

Rental: 

Fees: 

Special Emphasis: 
Contact Person: 


Purpose: 


100 co-ed 8 to 16 years 

Gull Lake, Brighton Beach 

The camp is available for rent. Rates available 

upon request. 

$18.00 to $25.00 per week 
Waterfront, Archery, orienteering 
Mr. Hoyt H. Smith 
Box 105, Erskine, Alberta TOC 1G0 
Phone: 742-5020 

The camp is a setting for young people to have 
a supervised, fun-filled week geared to provide 
a wholesome atmosphere for them to find that 
the answer to life is in God. 


MEMBER CAMPS 

ALBERTA CAMP CHERITH (Pioneer Girls) 

Season: Summer 

Ages: grades 4-12 

Fees: Available upon request 

Camp will tie operational 1976 

Emphasis: To share Christianity with girls, helping them to 

grow to maturity with Christ in every phase of 
their lives. 

Contact Person: Sharon Kvill 

Box 1612, Stettler, Alta. TOC 2L0 
Phone: 742-2203 

ALBERTA CONFERENCE CAMP COMMITTEE 
(Alberta Conference of United Church of Canada) 

Contact Person: Rev. Gordon Oaks 

10209 — 123 Street, Edmonton, Alta. 

Phone: 482-1587 


ALBERTA EVANGELICAL CAMP (Evangelical Church) 

Resident Camp and Retreat 

Capacity: 200 — all ages 

Location: 20 miles west of Didsbury 

Fees: Available on request 

Special Emphasis: Retreat 
Contact Person: Samuel R. Sherman 

Box 151, Didsbury, Alberta TOM 0W0 
Phone: 335-3103 

Purpose: Designed primarily for spiritual growth and 

development. 


BAR HARBOUR (United Church of Canada) 


Resident Camp 

Capacity: 

Location: 

Fees: 

Rental: 

Rental Fee: 

Contact Person: 

Purpose: 

Emphasis: 


84 (co-ed boys and girls) 9 to 18 years 
Buffalo Lake, north of Stettler 
$22.00 per week 

May, June, August and September 
75d per day per camper up to 75 campers; 
50d per camper for any number over 75 
Mrs. Jim Hoopfer 

Box 1511, Stettler, Alberta TOC 2L0 
Religious training 

Waterfront direction, handcraft, etc. 


BOYS CLUBS OF EDMONTON 

Contact: R.J. (Bob) Weller 

Executive Director, Boys' Clubs of Edmonton 
No. 1, West Wing, 9542 — 101 Avenue 
Edmonton, Alberta T5H 0B3 
Phone: 423-2228 


28 


CANADIAN GIRLS IN TRAINING CAMP COUNCIL 
(Alberta C.G.l.T. Association) 

Delegate C.G.l.T. Camp only 
Capacity: 60 girls are 15 to 17 years 

Fees: Available upon request 

Contact Person: Mrs. B. Durant 

25 Grafton Cres. S.W., Calgary, Alta. T3E 4X2 
Phone: 249-2441 

CANADIAN MENTAL HEALTH ASSOCIATION 

Edmonton Area Camp 

Contact Person: C.H.M.A. Office 

No. 205, 10711 - 107 Ave. 

Edmonton, Alberta T5H 0W6 
Phone: 422-6137 

CAMP CAROLINE (Alberta Baptist Camp of The North 
American Baptist General Assembly) 
Family camping. Retreat Centre, Continuing Education Centre. 

Season: 12 months 

Capacity: Summer 130 Grade 4 to Adult 

Winter 100 Youth to Adult 
Fees: 1973 — $30 per camper 

Location: 3% miles south of Caroline, Alberta 

Rental: Available fall to spring 

Contact: Mr. Dwight Haller, Director 

No. 1 — 10326 — 82 Avenue, Edmonton, Alta. 
Phone: 439-6068 


CHRISTIAN CAMPING INTERNATIONAL 

Alberta Chairman: Mr. Ron Carter 

4507 Richmond Rd. S.W. 
Calgary, Alberta T3E 4P9 
Phone: 242-6064 


ELKWATER UNITED CHURCH CAMP 
(United Churches of Medicine Hat Area) 


Season: 

Capacity: 

Fee: 

Location: 
Emphasis and 
Purpose: 


Contact Person: 


July and August 
40, ages 7 to 18 years 
$3.00 per day 
Elkwater Lake 

Crafts, hiking, friends and fellowship. 

To provide a well rounded supervised camp 
experience — planned program of Christian 
Education 
Mrs. Elaine Worden 

112 — 7 Street S.E., Medicine Hat, Alta. T1A 1G7 
Phone: 526-3532 


GIRL GUIDES OF CANADA (Alberta Council) 


Provincial 

Commissioner: 


Mrs. O.R. Stevenson 

6704 — 87 St., Edmonton, Alta. 

Phone: 466-6700 


GIRL GUIDES OF CANADA (Calgary Area) 


ACCREDITED 

CAMP: 


2140 — Brownsea Dr. N.W. 
Calgary, Alberta T2N 3G9 
Phone: 283-0745 

CAMP MOCKINGBIRD 


GIRL GUIDES OF CANADA (Chinook Area) 


1. Camp Okeekun 


Capacity: 

Season: 

Location: 

Fees: 


Purpose and 
Emphasis: 

Rental: 

Contact Person: 


125 girls, ages 8 to 18 years 
May to October 

Two miles north of Fort McLeod 
Brownie: $1.00 / girl / camp 

Guides: $1.50 / girl / camp 

Weekend: $0.75 / girl / weekend 

General public: campsite only — 

$0.50 / person / day 

Use of campsite and tenting equipment — 

$1.00 / person / day 

Outdoor activities, campfire, camping skills, 
conservation, hiking, crafts, etc. 

To implement the Girl Guide Camping Program. 
On a limited basis 
Mrs. Louise Laqua 

113 — 11 St. South, Lethbridge, Alta. T1K 1P7 
Phone: 328-2237 


2. Elkwater Girl Guide Camp 

Location: 

41 miles southeast of Medicine Hat in Cypress 
Hills Provincial Park 

Capacity: 

Brownies: 12 to 18 girls 

Guides: 30 to 40 girls 

Season: 

June to September 

Fees: 

Local: $1.50 / girl / camp 

Other Guide groups: $2.00 / girl / camp 

Note: 

Open only to members of Girl Guides 

Purpose and 

Nature study and conservation, hiking, boating, 

Emphasis: 

swimming, camping skills, etc. 

Contact Person: 

Mrs. Pauline Schaan 

1065 Parker Ave. N.W., Medicine Hat 

Alberta T1A 6W8 

Phone: 527-5477 

GIRL GUIDES OF CANADA (Edmonton Area) 

Season: 

Year round 

Capacity: 

Ages 7 to adult, wilderness 20, Sandy Lake 138 

Fees: 

Available upon request 

Location: 

Sandy Lake, Tangle Trees, Williams Wilderness 

Emphasis: 

Enjoyment of outdoors, learning new skills. 

Contact Person: 

Mrs. Mona Runka 

8706 Strathearn Dr., Edmonton, Alta. T6C 4C7 
Phone: 469-4936 

Rental: 

Available occasionally 

CAMP HEALTH- 

-HOPE-HAPPINESS (HE HO HA) 

Capacity: 

72 handicapped per session (all ages by camps) 

Rates: 

$100.00 per 12 day camp 

Location: 

Lake Isle 

Purpose: 

To provide a varied program of rehabilitative 
recreation for mobile and handicapped during 
summer. 

Summer program for handicapped 

Rental: 

Camp available for rental in off season 
Winterized, fully modern facilities 
Accommodation for 100 persons 

All staff services provided. 

Contact Person: 

The Associated Canadian Travellers 

10226 - 109 St., Edmonton, Alta. T5J 1M9 
Phone: 424-6555 

CAMP KANNAWIN (The Presbyterian Church in Canada, 
Synod of Alberta) 

Resident Camp 

Capacity: 

50 campers 

Location: 

Sylvan Lake 

Season: 

Mid-June to early September 

Fees & camp dates: 

Available upon request 

Registrar: 

Box 489, Sylvan Lake 

Contact Person: 

Mrs. J. Haliburton 

4 Gissing Dr. S.W., Calgary, Alta. T3E 4V7 

Purpose: 

To provide an experience of Christian com¬ 
munity living; to foster an appreciation for 
God's gifts in nature: and to provide an oppor¬ 
tunity for mental, physical and spiritual growth 
in an out-of-doors setting. 

MILL CREEK BAPTIST CAMP (Baptist Union of 

Western Canada) 

Wilderness Camp 

Capacity: 

35 boys or girls 9 to 12 years 

35 co-ed 12 to 15 years 

50 families 

Location: 

17 miles west of Pincher Creek 

Season: 

July and August, one week periods 

Fees: 

$14.00 to $16.00 per week 

Emphasis: 

Riding, outtripping and archery 

Contact Person: 

Rev. Ron Harris, Registrar 

Pincher Creek, Alta. T0K 1W0 

Purpose: 

Christian camping in a Wilderness setting. 

MOUNT ROYAL 

.COLLEGE 

Contact Person: 

Len Thomas 

Mount Royal College, Lincoln Park Campus 
4825 Richard Rd. S.W. 

Calgary, Alta. T3E 6K6 

Phone: 246-6515 

Purpose: 

To teach an introductory course in camping 
and outdoor education. 


29 


MULHURST LUTHERAN CHURCH CAMP 
(Western Canada Synod, Lutheran Church in America) 


Resident Camp 

Capacity: 

Location: 

Season: 

Fees: 

Rental: 

Emphasis: 
Contact Person: 


90 co-ed; 15 family camp sites 
Pigeon Lake, Mulhurst, Alta. 

June 29 - August 24 
$35.00 per week 

Campfacilities including lounge, kitchen, dining 
room and bunkhouse available Sept. 1 - June 28. 
Waterfront, outtripping 
Mr. O.D. Olson 

9901 - 107 St., Edmonton, Alta. T5K 1G4 
Phone: 429-7919 


NAKAMUN CAMP 

P.O. Box 642, Barrhead, Alberta TOG 0E0 

Contact Person: Mr. Ralph Jespersen 

Box 179, Stony Plain, Alta. TOE 2G0 

Mr. Ken McLennan 

8704 — 73 Street, Edmonton, Alta. 

Phone: 469-3707 

SKYSTA (Mr. H.J. Kasparsons) Private 

Resident Camp — 8 to 12 years co-ed 

Capacity: 16 (8 boys, 8 girls) 

Location: Condor 

Season: July and August 

Fees: Available upon request 

Emphasis: Working farm camping, hikes, nature, crafts, 

barbeques, farm chores, etc. 

Contact Person: Mr. H.J. Kasparsons 

R.R. 1, Condor, Alberta TOM 0P0 
Phone: 729-2146 


ST. MARY'S CAMP (Salesians of St. John Bosco) 


Capacity: 

Season: 

Fees: 

Location: 

Emphasis: 


Contact Person: 


Rental: 


75 boys, ages 8 to 15 years 
July and August 

$45.00 per week, $80 for 2 weeks 
Alberta Beach 

A Catholic sponsored camp for boys of all 
faiths, which attempts to give boys supervised 
recreation in a wholesome atmosphere. 

Rev. Richard Wanner 

5252 — 137 Ave., Edmonton, Alta. T5A 1C7 
Phone: 476-1946 

Camp available week-ends before and after camp 
season. 


UNIVERSITY OF ALBERTA 

Contact Person: Camping Representative 

Dept, of Outdoor Recreation 
University of Alberta 
Edmonton, Alta. 


THE UNIVERSITY OF CALGARY (School of 

Physical Education) 

Contact Person: Camping Representative 

School of Physical Education 
The University of Calgary 
Calgary, Alta. T2N 1 N4 
Phone: 284-5603 


CAMP VALAQUA (Mennonite Conference of Alberta) 

Season: June, July and August 

Capacity: 80 per week — children, youth, family, senior 

citizens 

Fees: $20.00 per week, $5.00 per week-end 

Location: Water Valley 

Emphasis: Outdoor experience, coupled with religious 

education 

Contact Person: Mr. Albert Peters 

R.R.1, Carstairs, Alta. TOM 0N0 
Phone: 337-2251 

Rental: Available occasionally. 

WHISPERING PINES BIBLE CAMP (Southern Ass'n. of 
Regular Baptist Churches of Alberta) 

Capacity: 100 campers; ages 9 to family 

Fees: $20.00 

Location: Lost Lake, Waiparous Creek, Bow River Forest 

Reserve 

Season: July 1 to September 1 

Contact Person: Mr. R.J. Derksen 

Box 2333, Calgary, Alta. 

Phone: 274-4627 

Purpose: Teaching campers to know God through Christ 

and the Bible, and to love God and Creation. 

WILDERNESS ENCOUNTER (Boy Scouts of Canada - 

Calgary Region) 

Co-ed teenagers wilderness travel camp 

Chester Lake Wilderness Base (Spray Lakes Area) 
Available upon request 
July and August 

Assist youth in their personal development by 
providing them, in a wilderness setting, with the 
opportunity: 

1) to come to understand and respect the wil¬ 
derness environment, and 

2) in coming to understand the wilderness and 
having experienced its challenges to gain 
confidence by: 

a) further developing wilderness travel skills, 

b) increasing their leadership skills, 

c) coming to understand group dynamics 
and how to work more effectively with 
others. 

Contact Person: Camping Department 

Boy Scouts of Canada 
P.O. Box 3427, Station B 
Calgary, Alta. T2M 4L8 


Location: 

Fees: 

Season: 

Objectives: 


Y.W.C.A. 


EDMONTON Y.W.C.A. CAMPS (Edmonton Y.W.C.A.) 


Season: 

Kind of Camp: 


Fees: 

Contact Person: 


Rental: 


Year round 

A year round educational and recreational pro¬ 
gram of specialty camps, family camps, and 
leadership training 
Available upon request 
Jean Funk 

c/o Y.W.C.A., 10032 - 103 Street 
Edmonton, Alberta T5J 0X4 
Phone: 422-8176 (Ext. 28) 

Camp site is available for rent year round. 


INDIVIDUAL MEMBERS 


Donna Allred 

10943 — 72 Avenue 

Edmonton, Alberta 

Phone: 435-5483 

Mr. & Mrs. Allan Green 

63 Brantford Cresc. N.W. 

Calgary, Alberta T2L 1N9 

Phone: 289-5807 

Mrs. Marjorie Culler 

Box 17 

Champion, Alberta T0L 0R0 

Phone: 897-3732 

Miss Jan James 

10943 — 72 Avenue 

Edmonton, Alberta T6G 0B1 

Phone: 435-5483 

Mr. Burton Demeriez 

15414 — 81 Avenue 

Edmonton, Alberta T5R 3P1 

Phone: 484-2388 

John and Alice Hanlin 

1246 Northmount Dr. N.W. 

Calgary, Alberta T2L 0E2 

Phone: 282-4494 

Mr. Andrew Farkas 

19 Brantford Cres. N.W. 

Calgary, Alberta T2L 1N9 

Phone: 289-1432 

Deanna M. Irwin 

5353 — 42 Avenue 

Red Deer, Alberta T4N 3A3 


Mr. Morris Fisher 

10810 - 79 Avenue 

Edmonton, Alberta T6E 1S5 

Phone: 433-3011 

Mr. Nestor N. Kelba 

R.R. No. 2 

Calgary, Alberta T2P 2G5 

Phone: 687-2616 


30 



Mr. Lou Lanier 
13 Royal Road 
Edmonton, Alberta T6J 2E7 

Miss Ann McKinnon 

No. 703, 9927 - 114 Street 

Edmonton, Alberta T5K 1P8 

Miss Jean Milner 

No. 101, 10125 -83 Avenue 

Edmonton, Alberta T6E 2C5 

Dr. R. Paasuke 
Box 910 

Olds, Alberta TOM IPO 

Dr. Donald Smith 
Dept, of Outdoor Recreation 
University of Alberta 
Edmonton, Alberta 


Phone: 482-4798 


Phone: 226-6075 


Mr. Ivan V. Somlai 
P.O. Box 4398, Station C, 
Calgary, Alberta T2T 5N2 

Mr. & Mrs. J.G. Spensley 
2402 - 27 Street S.W. 
Calgary, Alberta T3E 2G3 

Mr. Dick Staples 
16516 — 78 Avenue 
Edmonton, Alberta T5R 3E6 

Dr. & Mr*. W.J.D. Stephen 
9421 - 114 Street 
Edmonton, Alberta T5R 0R8 


Phone: Res. 439-1466 
Bus. 432-3611 


Phone: Res. 286-1714 
Bus. 281-2414 

Phone: 249-1817 

Phone: 487-2111 

Phone: 452-6754 


COMMERCIAL MEMBERS 


BRIDGE BRAND FOOD SERVICES LTD. 

1802 Centre Avenue N.E. 

Calgary, Alberta 

Supplying paper and cleaning supplies, 
frozen vegetables, meat and fish, 
fresh produce - total grocery line 

Contact 

Mel Tamagi, Asst. Manager — Grocery Division 


SCOTT NATIONAL CO. LTD. 

Food Supplies & Paper 
Calgary Representative: B. Taylor 

Box 5200, Station "A" 

Calgary, Alberta T2H 2C4 
Telephone: 252-8187 


ASSOCIATE COMMERCIAL MEMBER 


GUMPERT'S 
T R I P- L I T E S 

LIGHTWEIGHT FOODS FOR HIKING AND CANOE TRIPS 

Pack: 25 bags per case 

Each bag serves 4 people when reconstituted 
with water. A full range of products available 
for breakfast, lunch and dinner. 

See your Gumpert Representative for a 
Trip-Lite brochure and price list. 


★ Beverages 

★ Biscuits and Cakes 

* Soups 

* Desserts and Fruits 

★ Breakfast Dishes 

* Vegetables 

* Main Dishes 


S. GUMPERT OF CANADA LTD. 

CIE S. GUMPERT DU CANADA LTEE 
31 Brock Avenue, Toronto, Ontario M6K 2L1 


The use of this directory for commercial purposes without the written consent of the Alberta Camping Association is prohibited. 
The information contained herein is supplied by member camps and is correct to the best of our knowledge at the time of publication. 



31 








B.C. Camping A//ociation 

633 West 8th Avenue 
Vancouver, B.C. V5Z 1C7 
Telephone: 879-5108 



EXECUTIVE 


President 

Past President 

Vice President 

— Rick Ryan 

— Grant McKeen 

— Diane Black 

Treasurer — 

Secretary — 

Regional Vice President 

Canadian Camp ing A ssocia tion — 

Dave Campbell 
Ron Nelmes 

John Hasell 


COMMITTEES 


Executive Committee 

Finance & Membership 
Accreditation 

Public Relations 

— Dave Campbell 

— Len Ryan 

— Doug Soo 

Ou tdoor Educa tion — 

Legislative — 

Archives — 

Grant McKeen 
May Brown 
Jack Way 


AREA REPRESENTATIVES 


Okanagan 

— John Edwards 

Vancouver Island — 

John Durkin 


PREFACE 

This Directory of Camps is compiled by the B.C. Camping Association. Its purpose is to provide essential information about 
member camps located in the province of British Columbia. 

The information found in this Directory has been supplied by member camps and to the best of our knowledge,.is correct at 
this time of publication, November, 1974. 

Specific information regarding individual camps can be obtained by contacting the Camp Registrars as listed in this Directory. 
Additional copies may be obtained by calling or writing the B.C. Camping Association. 

The use of this directory for commercial purposes without the written consent of the B.C. Camping Association is prohibited. 


ACCREDITED MEMBER CAMPS 

Throughout the history of the Canadian Camping Association and its associate provincial offices, there has been a constant 
upgrading of camp standards. The B.C. Camping Association's Visitation Committee has spent some time in the following 
listed camps and has found them to meet standards set with regard to safety, health and qualified leadership. 

Camps that are not Accredited by the Association, at this time, may meet the standards but have not participated in this 
programme. 


CAMPS ACCREDITED BY THE B.C. CAMPING ASSOCIATION 


Camp Artaban 

Canadian Outward Bound Mountain School 

Camp Capilano 

Camp Cherith 

Camp Cowichan 

Camp Deka 

Camp Elphinstone 

Evans Lake Conservation Centre 

Camp Fircom 

Gamma Phi Beta Camp 

Camp Hatikvah 


Camp Homewood 
Camp Howdy 
Camp Kopje 
Camp Latona 
Pioneer Pacific 
Camp Potlatch 

Silver Lake Conservation Training 

Camp Sunrise 

Camp Thunderbird 

Camp Tsoona 

Camp Winfield 

Camp Yawaca 


32 



BRITISH COLUMBIA 



CAMP ARTABAN (Church) 


Location: 
Founded: 
Operated By: 

Address: 

Contact: 

Transportation: 

Capacity: 


Long Bay, Gambier Island, Howe Sound 
1923 

Anglican Church Diocese of New West¬ 
minster 

St. Johns (Schaughnessy) Church, 

1490 Nanton Avenue, Vancouver 
Rev. Tom Speed 
Phone: 874-5832 
Harbour Ferries 
125 Campers 


THE CANADIAN OUTWARD BOUND 
MOUNTAIN SCHOOL (Agency) 


Location: 
Founded: 
Operated By: 
Address: 

Registrar: 


Director: 

Open To: 

Duration: 

Camp Periods: 

Transportation: 

Capacity: 

Medical Examination: 
Medical Staff: 
Counselling Staff: 
Activities: 


Keremeos, B.C. 

1969 

Outward Bound, B.C. 

P.O. Box 279, Keremeos, B.C. (all year) 
Phone: 499-5582 
1616 W. 7th Avenue, 

Vancouver, B.C. V6J 1S5 

Phone: 733-9104 

John Hasell, Executive Director 

Individuals 16 years and over 

Year round 

2 and 3 week sessions 

Not included 

Winter 30 — Summer 60 

Special courses 90 

Required 

Registered Nurse, Doctor on call 
7- 14 

Cross-country skiing, survival, mountain navi¬ 
gation, climbing, rescue, snow and ice climb¬ 
ing, river crossing and rafting. 


CAMP CAPILANO (City of Vancouver) 


Location: 
Founded: 
Operated By: 

Address: 


Director: 

Registrar: 

Open To: 

Duration: 

Camp Period: 

Transportation: 

Capacity: 

Counselling Staff: 
Medical Examination: 
Medical Staff: 
Activities: 


North Vancouver, B.C. 

1951 

Vancouver Board of Parks and Public 
Recreation 

4077 Capilano Park Road 
North Vancouver, B.C. V7R 4L2 
Phone: 987-2087 
Jack F. Way 
Recreation Office, 

Board of Parks and Public Recreation 
All children 7-12 years 
July to August 
2 'A days 

Provided from Vancouver Recreation Centres 

24 

4 

Not Required 

First Aider; Hospital and Doctor on call 
Introduction to resident camping; hiking; 
fishing; archery; swimming; campfires; 
games; etc. 

Environmental studies for schools, Septem¬ 
ber to June. 


CAMP COWICHAN (Agency) 


Location: 

Operated By: 
Address: 

Camp Administrator 
& Registrar: 

Open To: 

Duration: 

Camp Periods: 

Transportation: 

Capacity: 

Counselling Staff: 
Medical Examination: 
Medical Staff: 
Activities: 


Lake Cowichan, B.C. 

B.C. Lions Society for Crippled Children 
3937 Quadra Street, Victoria, B.C. 

Summer: Lake Cowichan 382-3171 

Mr. R. St. Dennis 

Handicapped; 9 years to adult inclusive 

June to August 

6 sessions of 8 days 

Easter Seal Bus 

40 

19 

Provided 

Nurse 

Swimming, hiking, nature lore, campfires, 
sing-alongs, fishing, boating, games and 
sports, arts and crafts, day out-trips, music, 
drama, 5 movies and church services. 


CAMP DEKA (Independent) 


Location: 
Founded: 
Operated By: 
Address: 


Registrar: 

Director: 

Open To: 

Duration: 

Camp Period: 

Transportation: 

Capacity: 

Counselling Staff: 
Medical Examination: 
Medical Staff: 
Activities: 


Deka Lake, South Cariboo 
1961 

Lome & May Brown 
4036 W. 30th Avenue, 

Vancouver, B.C. V6S 1X5 

Summer: Camp Deka, Lone Butte, B.C. 

Phone: Radio-Telephone 
May Brown 
Lome Brown 
Boys 8-15 years 
July to August 
2 weeks 

Via Greyhound Bus to 100 Mile House 
48 
16 

Questionnaire 

First Aid Attendant or Nurse, Doctor on call 
Nature awareness, living in a wilderness set¬ 
ting, riding, hiking, out-tripping, canoeing, 
swimming, crafts, kayaking. 


CAMP ELPHINSTONE (Agency) 


Location: 
Founded: 
Operated By: 
Address: 


Director & Registrar: 
Open To: 

Duration: 

Camp Periods: 

Transportation: 

Capacity: 

Counselling Staff: 
Medical Examination: 
Medical Staff: 
Activities: 


Gibsons, B.C. 

1907 

Y.M.C.A. of Greater Vancouver 
6137 Cambie St., Vancouver, B.C. V5Z 3B2 
Phone: 324-2261 
Summer: Gibsons, B.C. 

Phone: 886-2025 
Mr. R.L. Bowering 
Boys 8-15 years 
All summer 
2 weeks 
Not included 
136 
40 

Questionnaire 
1 nurse 

Waterfront skills, out-tripping, sailing, canoe¬ 
ing, special events, campfires, camp crafts. 


CAMP CHERITH (Church) 


Location: 
Founded: 
Operated By: 
Director: 


Registrar: 


Open To: 

Camp Periods: 
Duration: 
Transportation: 
Capacity: 

Counselling Staff: 
Medical Examination: 
Medical Staff: 
Activities: 


Near Cultus Lake, B.C. 

1962 

Pioneer Girls 
V. Listoen 

6454 - 144th St., Surrey, B.C. 

Phone: 594-5745 
Mrs. D. Rowan 

13709 - 56A Avenue, Surrey, B.C. 

Phone: 594-4957 
Girls, grades 3 to 12 

1 week 

2 weeks 
Not provided 
100 

30 

Required 

Nurse 

Archery, riflery, hiking, canoeing, swim¬ 
ming, crafts, bicycling. 


EVANS LAKE CONSERVATION CENTRE (Agency) 


Location: 
Founded: 
Operated By: 
Address: 


Director: 
Registrar: 
Open To: 


Duration: 

Camp Period: 

Transportation: 

Capacity: 

Counselling Staff: 
Medical Examination: 
Activities: 


9 miles north of Squamish, B.C. 

1960 

Canadian Forestry Association of B.C. 

No. 410 — 1200 W. Pender Street 
Vancouver, B.C. V6E 2S9 
Phone: 683-7591 

Summer: General Delivery, Squamish, B.C. 

Phone: 898-3832 
Dave Campbell 

Canadian Forestry Association of B.C. 

Junior Forest Wardens, Girl Forest Guards 
and others (10 - 16 years) interested in con¬ 
servation and recreation programs 
July to August 
8 day sessions 
Provided from Vancouver 
78 
12 

Not required 

Conservation, swimming, canoeing, sailing, 
fishing, out-trips, fire prevention 


33 








CAMP FIRCOM (Church) 


Location: 
Founded: 
Operated By: 
Address: 


Director: 

Administrator: 

Registrar: 

Open To: 

Duration: 

Camp Periods: 

Transportation: 

Capacity: 

Counselling Staff: 
Medical Examination: 
Medical Staff: 
Activities: 


Gambier Island, B.C. 

1923 

First United Church (in summer) 

320 E. Hastings Street 
Vancouver, B.C. V6A 1P4 
Phone: 681-8365 
Glen Baker 
Ross Henry 
Mrs. E. Francis 
Children, adults, families 
July - August 
1 week or 10 and 11 days 
Charter Boat 
100 

12 paid staff — 60 volunteers 
Required 

Nurse, Doctor on call 

Group experience, Christian community liv¬ 
ing in an outdoor setting, boating, hiking, 
swimming, out-trips, crafts, out-tripping by 
whaler boats. 


GAMMA PHI BETA CAMP (Private) 


Location: 
Founded: 
Operated By: 

Address: 


Contact: 
Open To: 


Duration: 

Camp Periods: 

Transportation: 

Capacity: 

Counselling Staff: 
Medical Examination: 
Medical Staff: 
Activities: 


West Sechelt, B.C. 

1932 

Gamma Phi Beta, International Sorority, 
Vancouver Alumnae 
8012 Joffre Avenue, 

S. Burnaby, B.C. V5J 3L1 
Phone: 434-1298 

Summer: R.R. 1, West Sechelt, B.C. 

Mrs. W.J. Robertson (Beth) 

Underprivileged girls 9-12 years 
All campers on referral from Metro-Health 
School Nurses 
July - Mid-August 
14 day sessions 
Provided 
36 
11 
Yes 

Clinic Hospital in Sechelt 
Relaxing holiday, beach activities, no out- 
tripping, hired puppet shows, including work 
shop, government marine biologist and forest 
expert for counsellor training. 


CAMP HATIKVAH (Agency) 


Location: 
Founded: 
Operated By: 
Address: 


Director: 

Registrar: 

Open To: 
Duration & 
Camp Periods: 


Transportation: 
Counselling Staff: 
Capacity: 

Medical Examination: 
Medical Staff: 
Activities: 


Oyama, B.C. 

1954 

Zionist Organization of Canada 
950 West 41st Avenue 
Vancouver, B.C. V5Z 2N7 
Phone: 266-5366 
N. Bent 

Mrs. M. Weinstein 
Girls and boys 8 - 16 years 
Two 314 week sessions 
One 7 week session 

One 2 week session — Canadian Diabetic 
Association 

Airplane and bus 
32 
160 

Required 

Nurse; Doctor on call 

Jewish culture, education and religion, 
general camping program with emphasis on 
waterfront activities. 


CAMP HOMEWOOD (Agency) 


Location: 
Founded: 
Operated By: 
Address: 

Director: 

Registrar: 

Open To: 
Duration: 

Camp Periods: 

Transportation: 

Capacity: 

Counselling Staff: 


Quadra Island, Heriot Bay, B.C. 

1948 

Pacific Coast Childrens' Mission 

Box 40, Heriot Bay, B.C. V0P 1H0 

Phone: 285-3483 

Alf Bayne 

Mrs. R. Gamache 

All (ages 8 - teens) — By registration only 
July - August 
9 days 

Provided from the Quadra Ferry to camp 
Harbour camps 65 — Woodsman camps 30 
Mountain trips — 10 per trip 
25 


34 


Medical Examination: Not required 

Medical Staff: Registered Nurse, Doctor can be called 

Activities: Crafts, outdoor games, horseback riding, 

water skiing, sailing, riflery, archery, camp 
craft, out-tripping. 


CAMP HOWDY (Agency - Day Camp) 


Location: 
Founded: 
Operated By: 
Address: 


Director & Registrar: 
Open To: 

Duration: 

Camp Periods: 

Transportation: 

Capacity: 

Counselling Staff: 
Medical Examination: 
Medical Staff: 
Activities: 


loco, B.C. 

1946 

Y.M.C.A. of Greater Vancouver 
6137 Cambie Street 
Vancouver, B.C. V5Z 3B2 
Phone: 324-2261 
Paul Dampier 

7 - 13 years (Co-Ed) 

All summer 

Nine 5 day camps (Monday to Friday) 

Not included 
50 

8 

Questionnaire 
First Aid Attendant 

Waterfront, archery, campfire, games, crafts, 
out-tripping. 


CAMP KOPJE (Agency) 


Location: 

Founded: 

Operated By: 

Address: 

Director: 

Open To: 

Duration: 

Camp Periods: 

Transportation: 

Capacity: 

Counselling Staff: 
Medical Examination: 
Medical Staff: 
Activities: 


Okanagan Lake, Winfield, B.C. 

1969 

Youth Resources 
Box 248, Winfield, B.C. 

Phone: 766-2956 
John Edwards 

Youth experiencing problems 
Co-Ed — 13 - 18 years (referrals only) 

Year round 
Year round 
Plane, bus, car 
24 
13 

Required 

Full-time registered nurse 

Out-tripping, swimming, boating, sailing, arts 

and crafts and voyageuring. 


CAMP LATONA (Agency) 


Location: 
Founded: 
Operated By: 
Address: 


Registrar: 

Directors: 

Open To: 
Duration: 
Camp Periods: 


Transportation: 

Capacity: 

Counselling Staff: 
Medical Examination: 
Medical Staff: 
Activities: 


Gambier Island, B.C. 

1959 

Catholic Youth Activities 
650 Richards Street 
Vancouver, B.C. V6B 3A3 
Phone: 681-3729 

Diane Black, Executive Director, Catholic 
Youth Activities 

Jeannie Wimbles (Girls' Director) 

Steven Paone (Boys' Director) 

Boys and girls 8-15 years 
June 28 to August 23 
2 week sessions 

Girls: June 28 to July 12 
July 12 to July 26 
Boys: July 26 to August 9 
August 9 to August 23 

Included 

125 

Total staff 37 

Parents' certificate of good health 
Nurse 

Waterfront skills, camp craft, arts and crafts, 
out-tripping. 


PIONEER PACIFIC (Church) 


Location: 
Operated By: 
Address: 


Open To: 

Duration: 

Transportation: 

Capacity: 

Medical Examination: 
Medical Staff: 
Counselling Staff: 
Activities: 


Thetis Island 

Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship 
Thetis Island, B.C. Phone: 246-9613 
or: Box 33829, Station D 

Vancouver, B.C. 

Boys and girls 8 - 14 years 
Co-Ed 8 - 16 years; Families 
June to September 
Provided 
120 
Yes 
Nurse 
50 

Swimming, boating, hiking, crafts, etc. 


CAMP POTLATCH (Agency) 


Location: 
Founded: 
Operated By: 
Address: 


Director: 

Registrar: 

Open To: 

Duration: 

Camp Periods: 

Transportation: 

Capacity: 

Counselling Staff: 
Medical Examination: 
Medical Staff: 

Activities: 


Howe Sound, B.C. 

1945 

Boys' & Girls' Clubs of Greater Vancouver 
633 West 8th Avenue 
Vancouver, B.C. V5Z 1C7 
Phone: 879-5108 

Summer: Britannia Beach P.O., B.C. 

Phone: Radio-Phone 
Ron Nelmes 
Mrs. M. Ellison 
Boys 8 to 18 years 
July - August 
2 week sessions 
Included 
130 
40 

Provided 

Nurse on site. Doctor and Hospital 
in Squamish 

Out-tripping, waterfront, archery, riflery, 
campfires, games, crafts, canoeing, wilder¬ 
ness tripping and leadership training. 


SILVER LAKE CONSERVATION TRAINING CAMP 


(Agency) 

Location: 
Founded: 
Operated By: 
Address: 


Director: 

Registrar: 

Open To: 

Duration: 

Camp Periods: 

Transportation: 

Capacity: 

Counselling Staff: 
Medical Examination: 
Medical Staff: 
Activities: 


On Silver Lake (10 miles west of Peachland) 
1970 

Canadian Forestry Association of B.C. 

503 Sutherland Avenue, Kelowna, B.C. 
Phone: 762-0430 
Summer: Phone 2K-222 
C.W. Gray 

Canadian Forestry Association of B.C., 
Kelowna 

Conservation Education, Junior Forest War¬ 
dens, school groups and others 
May to October 
1 week 
Not provided 
40 

1 to 8 ratio 
Questionnaire 
First Aider 

Canoeing, hiking, out-tripping, forestry, 
obstacle course, rifle safety. 


CAMP SUNRISE (Church) 


Location: 
Operated By: 
Address: 


Director & Registrar: 
Open To: 

Duration: 

Camp Periods: 

Transportation: 

Capacity: 

Counselling Staff: 
Medical Examination: 
Medical Staff: 
Activities: 


Hopkins Landing, B.C. 

The Salvation Army 
301 E. Hastings Street 
Vancouver, B.C. V6A 1P3 
Phone: 682-2841 
Summer: Hopkins Landing, B.C. 

Phone: 866-7232 or 866-2981 
Captain Lome Dixon 

Scouting, guiding, senior citizens, under¬ 
privileged, (multi purpose) 

June 15 - September 1 
1 week 

Information on application 
200 
30 

Health statement from parents 
Registered Nurse 

Hiking, boating, swimming, fishing, sports, 
outdoor camping, tenting, spiritual emphasis. 


CAMPTHUNDERBIRD (Agency) 


Location: 

Founded: 

Operated By: 

Address: 

Director & Registrar: 
Open To: 

Duration: 

Camp Periods: 

Transportation: 

Capacity: 

Counselling Staff: 
Medical Examination: 
Medical Staff: 
Activities: 


Sooke, B.C. 

1935 

Victoria Y.M.-Y.W.C.A. 

880 Courtney Street, Victoria, B.C. 
Phone: 306-7511 (all year) 

John Durkin 
9 - 16 year olds 
July - August 
Up to 1 month 
Provided 
90 
15 
Yes 

Nurse on duty 

Out-tripping, canoeing, swimming, 
wilderness camping, camp craft. 


hiking. 


CAMP TSOONA (Agency) 


Location: 

Founded: 

Operated By: 
Address: 

Director: 

Open To: 

Camp Periods: 
Duration: 

Capacity: 

Counselling Staff: 
Medical Examination: 
Activities: 


Rosedale, B.C. 

1961 

Girl Guides of Canada, B.C. Council 

No. 85 — 553 Granville Street 

Vancouver, B.C. V6C 1Y6 

Mrs. J.W. Feltnes Phone: 688-7707 

Girl Fuides, Girl Scouts, Brownies 

Varies 

Year round 

Longhouse 42 - Lodge 28 - Camp sites 120 

Varies 

Yes 

Swimming, hiking, climbing, sports. 


CAMP WINFIELD (Agency) 

Location: Winfield, B.C. 

Operated By: B.C. Lions Society for Crippled Children 

Address: 171 West 6th Avenue 

Vancouver, B.C. V5Y 1K5 
Phone: 873-1865 


Camp Administrator 
& Registrar: 

Open To: 

Duration: 

Camp Periods: 

Fees: 

Transportation: 

Capacity: 

Counselling Staff: 
Medical Examination: 
Medical Staff: 
Activities: 


Summer: R.R.1, Sorrento, B.C. 

Mr. Grath, R.R.1, Sorrento, B.C. 
Handicapped: 9 years to adult inclusive 
May 21 to August 15 
Six 8 day camps — One 10 day camp 
$5.00 per day 
Not provided 
40 
16 

Required 

1 Nurse, 1 Assistant Nurse 
Arts, crafts, horseback riding, fishing, boat¬ 
ing, hiking, swimming in pool. 


CAMP YAWACA (Agency) 


Location: 
Founded: 
Operated By: 
Address: 


Saltspring Island, B.C. 

1963 

Y.W.C.A. of Greater Vancouver 
580 Burrard Street 
Vancouver, B.C. V6C 2K9 
Phone: 683-2531 


Registrar: 

Director: 

Open To: 

Duration: 

Camp Periods: 

Fees: 

Transportation: 

Capacity: 

Counselling Staff: 
Medical Examination: 
Medical Staff: 

Activities: 


Summer: R.R.1, Fulford Harbour 
Saltspring Island, B.C. 

Phone: 112-653-4221 
Mrs. Erna Woods 
Sharon Brown 

Girls 9-15 years; Jr. C.l.T. leadership train¬ 
ing (girls 15 - 18 years finished grade 10) 

July 2 - August 28 
2 weeks 

$125.00 per session 
$ 5.00 transportation 

Provided from Vancouver, if desired 
54 

16 counsellors and 7 assistants 
Questionnaire 

First Aider, infirmary, doctor on call, 
hospital near 

Camp craft, swimming, canoeing, archery, 
out-tripping, outdoor gym, council ring, 
chapel, hiking, star gazing, singing. 



35 




INDIVIDUAL MEMBERSHIP 


Grant McKeen 

2952 Fleet Street, Coquitlam, B.C. 

B.J. Douglas 

Glenmore Lodge, Aviemore, 
Inverness-shire, Scotland 

Rick Ryan 

952 Hartford Place, North Vancouver 
V7H 2S7 

F.B. Hathaway 

2188 W. 12th Avenue, Vancouver 

V6K 2N2 

John Hasell 

1616 W. 7th Avenue, Vancouver 

V6J 1S5 

Rev. Bill Dyck 

Box 80267, Burnaby 

V5J4N3 

Rev. S. Berg 

R.R.1, Westback, B.C. 

Don S. Robertson 

Box 52, Brackendale, B.C. 

VOH 1 HO 

Marilyn Fane 

692 Burrard Street, Vancouver 

V6C2L1 

Patricia Russell 

1626 W. 58th Avenue, Vancouver 

V6P 1W9 

Rev. Fred Thirkell 

1490 Nanton Avenue, Vancouver 

V6H 2E2 

Rick Wolcott 

No. 305 — 6880 Balmoral Ave. Burnaby 
V5E 1J3 

Keith Stewart 

No. 820 — 3707 W. 7th Ave., Vancouver 
V6R 1W6 

John Edwards 

Box 248, Winfield, B.C. 

VOH 2C0 

Vince Capri 

1240 Yates Street, Victoria, B.C. 

V8V 3N3 

Robert Simmons 

No. 204 — 1878 Robson St., Vancouver 
V6G 1E3 

Dick Shaw 

No. 306 — 1705 3rd Ave., Prince George 
V2L3G7 

Bob Ellison 

Box 250, Squamish, B.C. 

VON 3G0 

John Durkin 

880 Courtney Street, Victoria, B.C. 

V8W 1C4 


Sylvia Haynes 

505 Dunsmuir Street, Vancouver 

V6B 1Y5 

Jon R. Taylor 

Box 8, Duncan, B.C. 

V9L3X1 

Brian Thom 

3675 Main Street, Vancouver 

V5V 3N6 

F.E. Wade 

171 W. 6th Avenue, Vancouver 

V5Y 1K5 

R. St. Dennis 

171 W. 6th Avenue, Vancouver 

V5Y 1K5 

John R. Coleman 

Box 2218, Vancouver 

V6B 3W2 

Mrs. D.A. Naylor 

No. 85 — 553 Granville St., Vancouver 
V6C 1X6 

Mrs. J.W. Feltnes 

No. 85 — 553 Granville St., Vancouver 
V6C 1X6 

H.N. Hamm 

46541 Cedar Avenue, Chilliwack, B.C. 
V2P2H3 

Cheryl Standing 

4506 Sophia Street, Vancouver 

V5V 3W2 

Rev. Edward J. Dinsley 

Box 4, Peachland, B.C. 

VOH 1X0 

Alan Englorien 

2141 W. 4th Avenue, Vancouver 

V6K 1N7 

Judy Winkelman 

2614 Parker Street, Vancouver 

V5K 2T4 

Jane Wong 

2224 Larch Street, Vancouver 

V6K 3P7 

Marv McClelland 

115 Glover Avenue, New Westminster 
V3L 2A5 

Rose Patterson 

234 E. 26th Street, North Vancouver 
V7N 1A7 

Diane Bergquist 

591 Egret Court, Richmond 

V7E 3W2 

Paul Pincott 

No. 401 — 8675 Laurel St., Vancouver 
V6P 3V5 



36 







Manitoba Comping 


A//ociation 

217-267 Edmonton Street 
Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 1S2 
(Area Code 204) 943-7851 


Past President 


President 


1st Vice-president 


2nd Vice-president 


Secretary 


1974 EXECUTIVE 


Gordon Stewart (Pioneer Camps) 
217-267 Edmonton Street 
Winnipeg R3C 1S2 
943-7851 

Robert Douglas (Wannakumbac) 
385 St Mary Avenue 
Wihnipeg R3C ONI 
943-2500 

Marvin Wall (Echo Bay) 

Box 385, Winnipeg R3C 2H6 
783-7206 

Punch Jackson (Camp Stevens) 
301 Vaughan Street 
Winnipeg R3B 2N7 

942- 8157 

Jay Otto (Association Office) 
217-267 Edmonton Street 
Winnipeg R3C 1S2 

943- 7851 


Treasurer 


Standards Chairman 


Cliff Fryers 

Norwood Tent and Awning Co. Ltd. 
1235 Sargent Avenue 
Winnipeg R3E 0G2 
774-2444 

Punch Jackson (Camp Stevens) 

301 Vaughan Street 
Winnipeg R3B 2N7 
942-8157 


Membership Chairman Shanley Parkinson (C.C.C. United 
Church of Canada) 

706 Harstone Road 
Charleswood, Man. R3R 1E2 
837-1277 


Leadership Training 
Chairman 


Brian Law (Manitou) 
301 Vaughan Street 
Winnipeg R3B 2N7 
942-8157 


Ou tdo or E due a tion 
Chairman 


David Loewen (Arnes) 

1151 Henderson Highway, Winnipeg 
338-9325 


WHAT IT IS . . . 

THE MANITOBA CAMPING ASSOCIATION consists of many different types of camps, persons and agencies that have 
banded together to help one another in their camping programs. Each year they elect an executive and charge this body 
with the responsibility of administrating the affairs of the MCA to the benefit of all its members. The MCA is a provincial 
section of the Canadian Camping Association. MCA is the voice of camping in Manitoba to the government and to the 
general public. 


WHAT "ACCREDITATION” MEANS 

MCA since its inception has continually encouraged camps to strive for excellency in all aspects of their camping operations. 
In 1969, MCA established a program of DESIRABLE PRACTICES and STANDARDS for camps, leading to official accredi¬ 
tation. As a result of the program, some member camps have been granted accreditation by MCA and the Canadian Camping 
Association. 

The primary objectives of the MCA standards program are to assist camps in making improvements in their present operations 
and to ensure that participants receive a valuable camping experience. 

The camp holding a certificate of accreditation is operating within the standards set forth by MCA and the provincial health 
regulations. To retain certification the camp is re-visited at least once every three years by the MCA Standards Committee 
visitation team. 

To the campers, and parents who send their children to camp, accreditation assures them the following: 

a) a competent trained staff working under supervision 

b) facilities which are conducive to camping programs 

c) food services and health practices which meet provincial health regulations 

d) the implementation of safety practices 

e) an environment providing opportunity for wholesome growth and creative adventure 

f) an effectively administrated camp. 

As the MCA standards program is being implemented over a period of several years, some camps have not yet been able to 
avail themselves of this accreditation. The public can be assured that many of the present non-accredited camps are taking 
the necessary steps to be accredited. 


37 


■H 


MANITOBA 



INDEX OF CAMPS 


tDENOTES "Accredited Camp" 


DAY CAMPS 

tCamp Manitou 
tCamp Playmore 

RESIDENT CAMPS 

tAnglican Camp Wapatek 
tCamp Arnes 
tB'nai B'rith Camp 
tCaddy Lake 

Canadian Red Cross Aquatic School 
Canadian Sunday School Mission 
Carberry Bible Camp 
tGimli Bible Camp 
Conference of Mennonites 
Camp Assiniboia 
Camp Koinonia 
Moose Lake Camp 

Diocese of Brandon, Memorial Camp 
tEcho Bay Lodge 
Girl Guides of Canada 
Husavick Children's Camp 
Knowles School for Boys Camp 
Lake Nutimik Baptist Camp 


Lakeside Fresh Air Camp 
Luther Village 
Manitoba 4-H Club Camps 
tManitoba Pioneer Camps 
tMassad 

Provincial Recreation Leadership Training Centre 
Red Rock Bible Camp 
Camp Seton 
Sherwood Forest Camp 
Sunrise Lutheran Camp 
tUkranian Park Camp 
United Church of Canada 

Red Rock United Church Camp 
Camp Totogan 

tUnited Church Fresh Air Camp 
Welmman Lake Camp 
tCamp Wannakumbac 
Winkler Bible Camp 
Y.M.C.A. Camping Department 
tCamp Stephens — Boys 
tCamp Stephens — Girls 
Counsellor Training Program 
Voyageurs and Serendipity 


tCAMP MANITOU 
(Y.M.C.A.) 


DAY CAMPS 

tCAMPPLAYMORE 
(Y.M.H.A.) 


Founded: 

1929 

Capacity: 

120 co-ed 

Capacity: 

350 day campers 

Session: 

3 weeks July-August 

Session: 

Three 10-day sessions July-August 

Fee: 

Available upon request 

Fee: 

$44.00 per session 

Location: 

R.M. of St. Andrews 

Location: 

Lot 87 & 88 Parish of St. Charles 

Contact: 

Avrim Namak 

Contact: 

Purpose: 

Brian Law or John MacBeth 

301 Vaughan St., Winnipeg, R3B 2N7 

942-8157 

Camp Manitou is a place where "people things" occur— 
where an understanding of man as a part of nature is 
of primary importance; a place for FUN . . . with a pur¬ 
pose. 

Purpose: 

370 Hargrave St., Winnipeg R3B 2K1 

943-6551 

To provide an enjoyable outdoor experience in a wood¬ 
land setting. Trained staff assist campers in learning the 
social skills required to play, work, and live in small 
groups. Program emphasizes learning and safely imple¬ 
menting camping skills. 


RESIDENT CAMPS 


tANGLICAN CAMP WAPATEK 


tB'NAI B'RITH CAMP 


(The Angl 

ican Church of Canada) 

(Y.M.H. 

A.) 

Founded: 

1923 

Founded: 

1926 

Capacity: 

50 

Capacity: 

120 

Session: 

12 days July-August 

Session: 

2 weeks-regular; 3 and 4 weeks-advanced. July-August 

Fee: 

Sliding Scale 

Fee: 

$197 for 2 weeks 

Location: 

Kenora, Ontario 

Location: 

Towne Island, Lake of the Woods 

Contact 

Rev. C. Griggs 

Contact: 

Mr. Shannon Etkin 

Purpose: 

30 St. Clair Blvd., Winnipeg R2C 0V1 

222-0219 or 222-1942 

To provide, within a Christian community of com- 

Purpose: 

370 Hargrave, Winnipeg R3B 2K1 

943-6551 

Camp provides a means for people to learn about and 

petent staff, for growth of persons in the Christian 
way of life and opportunities to develop skills in the 
out-of-doors. 

tCAMP ARNES 

(Lake Winnipeg Mission Camp Society Inc.) 

understand their natural and man-made environments, 
to develop relationships with others and for the indi¬ 
vidual to grow and mature. Campers participate in 
planned programs developed with their counsellors. 

tCADDY LAKE 

Founded: 

1949 

(Girl Gu 

ides of Canada) 

Capacity: 

150 

Founded: 

1949 

Session: 

1-2 weeks year-round 

Capacity: 

100 

Fee: 

$35.00 per week 

Session: 

2-7 day, 4-10 day, and 1-13 day July-August 

Location: 

70 miles north of Winnipeg on Lake Winnipeg 

Fee: 

$49 for 7 days, $70 for 1 0 days and $ 1 00 for 1 3 days 

Contact: 

Dave Loewen 

Location: 

Whiteshell 

Purpose: 

1151 Henderson Highway, Winnipeg, Manitoba 

338-9325 

To help children, youth and adults develop biblical 
attitudes to all of life, to develop their potential as 
individuals and to discover the joy of living. The pro¬ 
gram is camper-counsellor centered and gives oppor¬ 
tunity for training in various outdoor skills. 

Contact: 

Purpose: 

Miss Debbie Haynes 

200-267 Edmonton St., Winnipeg R3C 1S2 

942-2458 

To provide opportunity for girls to develop as indivi¬ 
duals and as responsible group members. Activities are 
based on the Promise and the Law; to provide an 
enjoyable outdoor experience. 


38 


Capacity: 
Session: 
Fee: 

Contact: 


Purpose: 


Capacity: 

Session: 

Fee: 

Location: 

Contact: 

Purpose: 


Capacity: 

Session: 

Fee: 

Location: 

Contact: 


Purpose: 


CANADIAN RED CROSS AQUATIC SCHOOL 
(Canadian Red Cross) 

Founded: 1966 

80 

7 days 
$35.00 

Mr. Jim Fenske 

226 Osborne St. N., Winnipeg R3C 1V4 
772-2551 

To train persons with the required prerequisites in 
aquatic leadership. Candidates may apply for the Red 
Cross Leader, Red Cross Royal Life Instructor or 
National Lifeguard Certificate. 

CANADIAN SUNDAY SCHOOL MISSION 

200-189 Henderson Highway 
Winnipeg, R2L 1 L7 
667-8311 

(1) CARBERRY BIBLE CAMP 

Founded: 1961 

80 

6 days July 
$15.00 

6 miles east Carberry junction on Trans-Canada Hwy. 
Abe Wiebe 

Box 430, Carberry R0K OHO 

To provide an all-round camping experience for chil¬ 
dren, young people and adults and endeavouring to 
help them socially, physically and spiritually. 

t(2) GIMLI BIBLE CAMP 

Founded: 1928 

85 

6 days July-August 
$21.00 

2 miles north of Gimli on Hwy #9 
Rev. John Thiessen 

200-189 Henderson Hwy., Winnipeg R2L 1 L7 
667-8311 

To provide an all-round camping experience for chil¬ 
dren, young people and adults and endeavouring to 
help them socially, physically and spiritually. 

CONFERENCE OF MENNONITES 

202-1483 Fembina Hwy. 

Winnipeg R3T 2C9 
452-3432 

(1) CAMP ASSINIBOIA 

Founded: 1949 

Capacity: 120 

Session: 1 week July-August 

Fee: $25.00 and $20.00 for each additional camper in one 

family. 

Location: Approx. 5 'A miles west of Headingly on #1 Hwy. to 

Prov. Road #241, then 2Vz miles south. 

Contact: Camp Secretary 

202-1483 Pembina Hwy., Winnipeg R3T 2C9 
452-3432 

Purpose: To provide a setting where the camper may have an 

educational, recreational, social, and spiritual experi¬ 
ence. To help campers sense and respond to the living 
presence of God as seen in Jesus and as found in 
relationships with other people. 

(2) CAMP KOINONIA 

Founded: 1966 

Capacity: 60 

Session: 1 week July-August 

Fee: $25.00 and $20.00 for each additional camper in one 

family. 

Location: 9 miles south of Boissevain on Hwy. #10 

Contact: Camp Secretary 

202-1483 Pembina Hwy., Winnipeg R3T 2C9 
452-3432 

Purpose: To provide a setting where the camper may have an 

educational, recreational, social and spiritual experi¬ 
ence. To help campers sense and respond to the living 
presence of God as seen in Jesus and as found in 
relationships with other people. 

(3) MOOSE LAKE CAMP 

Founded: 1957 

Capacity: 46 

Session: 1 week July-August 

Fee: $25.00 and $20.00 for each additional camper in one 

family. 


Contact: 


Purpose: 


DIOCESE 

(Anglican 

Founded: 

Capacity: 

Session: 

Fee: 

Location: 

Contact: 


Purpose: 


Capacity: 

Session: 

Fee: 

Location: 

Contact: 


Purpose: 


Location: Southeast of Steinbach on #12 for 66 miles; north of 

Sprague 23 miles. 

Camp Secretary 

202-1483 Pembina Hwy., Winnipeg R3T 2C9 
452-3432 

To provide a setting where the camper may have an 
educational, recreational, social and spiritual experi¬ 
ence. To help campers sense and respond to the living 
presence of God as seen in Jesus and as found in 
relationships with other people. 

OF BRANDON, MEMORIAL CAMP 
Church of Canada, Diocese of Brandon) 

1935 
64 

7 days June-August 
Inquire 

West side Clear Lake, Crawford Park 
A.F. Jacobs or Rt. Rev. T.W. Wilkinson 
341-13th Street, Brandon R7A 4P8 
727-7550 

To foster a love of God and his Son, Jesus Christ, 
through the experience of living and working together 
in a Christian atmosphere emphasizing the beauty of 
God's creation in nature around Clear Lake with a 
special interest in canoeing. 

tECHO BAY LODGE 

(Greater Wpg. Youth for Christ Inc.) 

Founded: 1966 

40 

8 days May-October; 3-4 days January-March 
$60.00 for 8 days 
Echo Bay, Lake of the Woods 
Marvin Wall 

Box 385, Winnipeg R3C 2H6 
783-7206 

(Lifeline) To combat delinquency and teach moral and 
spiritual values. To reach the whole teen; mentally, 
physically, socially and spiritually. Working with un¬ 
loved, unwanted and neglected teen. (Campus Life) To 
emphasize the need of a balanced life of the high 
school student and to the building of spiritual values 
and principles that add to their total development as 
a person. 

GIRL GUIDES OF CANADA (MANITOBA) 

Capacity: Group Camps 

Year-round 
Available on request 
Mrs. L. Lafortune 

200-267 Edmonton St., Winnipeg R3C 1S2 
942-2458 

To provide an opportunity for girls to develop as 
individuals and as responsible citizens. Activities are 
based on the Promise and the Law; full advantage is 
taken of the outdoor setting to provide an enjoyable 
experience. 

HUSAVICK CHILDREN'S CAMP 

(Workers' Benevolent Assoc, and Assoc, of United 

Ukranian Canadians) 

Founded: 1952 

50 

3 weeks 
$30-$35 

WBA Summer Camp, Husavick, Manitoba 
M. Mokry 

595 Pritchard Ave., Winnipeg R2W 2K4 
582-9269 

Provide facilities for children during summer months 
in a camp. 

KNOWLES SCHOOL FOR BOYS CAMP 

Founded: 1967 

20 

2 weeks July-August 
Big Whiteshell Lake 
Arnie Cohen 

2065 Henderson Hwy., Winnipeg R2G 1P7 
339-1951 

For boys in placement at Knowles School to improve 
the functioning of the boys in numerous settings by 
means of increased awareness of self, development of 
confidence, resourcefulness and an improved self image. 
For boys to be able to control their own behaviour and 
appropriately solve their problems by looking at the 
alternatives and choosing the best one. 


Session: 

Fee: 

Contact- 


Purpose: 


Capacity: 

Session: 

Fee: 

Location: 

Contact: 


Purpose: 


Capacity: 

Session: 

Location: 

Contact: 


Purpose: 


39 


LAKE NUTIMIK BAPTIST CAMP 
(North American Baptist Conference) 

Founded: 1954 

Capacity: 100 

Session: one week July-August; year-round for weekends. 

Fee: $20.00/week 

Location: Whiteshell 

Contact: Rev. C.Wiebe 

3 Emory Road, Fort Richmond R3T 3K9 
269-6668 

Purpose: To own and operate, to construct, build, maintain and 

improve a Christian Camp and camp facilities for the 
educational benefit of the Society (and other organi¬ 
zations) with studies in Bible and ecology. 

LAKESIDE FRESH AIR CAMP 

(Lakeside Fresh Air Camp Board of Trustees and 

The Society for Crippled Children and Adults of Man.) 

Founded: 1921 

Capacity: 88 

Session: Three 2-week sessions June-July 

Fee: $140.00 

Location: 5 miles north of Gimli 

Contact: Ulrich Woelcke 

825 Sherbrook, Winnipeg R3A 1M5 
786-5601 

Purpose: To provide physically-handicapped people with experi¬ 

ences they would otherwise not have: group-living, 
group projects with emphasis on accepting responsi¬ 
bility, development of latent (or obvious) talents 
(drama, sports, crafts, etc.) outtripping, overnight 
camping and having a plain good time. 


LUTHER 

(Lutheran 

Founded: 

Capacity: 

Session: 

Fee: 

Location: 

Contact: 


Purpose: 


VILLAGE 

Church Camping Association) 

1965 

75 summer, 20 winter 
6 days year-round 
Available upon request 
Kenora, Ontario 
Rev. Alfred B. Sander 
Box 566, Kenora, Ontario 
837-5559 Winnipeg 

To provide a unique opportunity for the camper to 
realize an intensive and gladdening experience in his 
relationship to God—to the Church—to the world of 
nature-to self and to his followers. 


MANITOBA 4-H CLUB CAMPS 
(Manitoba Department of Agriculture and 
Manitoba 4-H Council) 

Founded: 1920 

Capacity: 850 

Session: 6-10 days July-August 

Fee: $10.00 

Contact: Orval Henderson 

715 Norquay Bldg., Winnipeg R3C 0P8 
946-7801 

Purpose: To foster self-development, an awareness of others and 

an appreciation of man's unique relationship to the 
out-of-doors and the relationship each camper has to 
the environment. 

tMANITOBA PIONEER CAMPS 
(Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship of Canada) 

Founded: 1943 

Capacity: 100 

Session: 12 days May-August 

Fee: $100 

Location: Shoal Lake, Ontario 

Contact: Camp Director 

217-267 Edmonton St., Winnipeg R3C 1S2 
942-3002 

Purpose: To offer skill training for wilderness adventure with an 

emphasis on the initiative and leadership of counselling 
staff to demonstrate the reality of Christian faith in 
relation to such experiences together. 

tMASSAD 

Founded: 1953 

Capacity: 220 

Session: July-August 

Fee: Available upon request 

Location: Gimli, Manitoba 


Contact: Mr. Jack Boroditsky 

405-225 Arby Bay, Winnipeg R2G 0P1 
338-3863 

Purpose: The transmission of Jewish culture through the medium 

of the Hebrew language. The activities are designed to 
give an intellectual stimulation and to contribute to the 
growth of physical skills, social awareness and religious 
understanding. 

PROVINCIAL RECREATION LEADERSHIP 
TRAINING CENTRE 

(Dept, of Tourism, Recreation and Cultural Affairs) 

Founded: 1962 

Capacity: 120 

Session: Year-round 

Location: Gimli, Manitoba 

Contact: Peter Cowan 

189 Evanson Street, Winnipeg R3G 0N9 
774-1705 

Purpose: The Provincial Recreation Leadership Training Center 

is a year-round residential training center for recreation 
leaders. The camp is made available to other depart¬ 
ments of government or recreation agencies when not 
in use by the Department of Tourism, Recreation and 
Cultural affairs. 

tRED ROCK BIBLE CAMP 
(Red Rock Bible Camp Association) 

Founded: 1948 

Capacity: 90 

Session: 1 week or weekend year-round 

Fee: $8.50/day/person maximum; then prorated 

Location: Whiteshell Provincial Park (11 miles north of Rennie) 

Contact: Paul Loewen 

Box 790, Steinbach, Manitoba 
326-6122 

Purpose: Quality Christian camping; outdoor education; a pro¬ 

gram designed to meet the needs of campers in every 
area of life (physical, social, spiritual). 

CAMP SETON 
(Camp Arnes) 

Founded: 1969 

Capacity: 12 

Session: 1 week July 

Fee: $50.00 

Location: 100 west of Winnipeg, adjacent to Spruce Woods 

Provincial Forest Reserve. 

Contact: Camp Director 

1151 Henderson Highway, Winnipeg, Manitoba 
338-9325 

Purpose: Wilderness Ranch experience for boys and girls ages 

14-17 yrs. where they can discover the development of 
their personal qualities, learn to depend on each other 
for their existence and enjoy the adventures of tripping 
in the saddles. 

Worship, Bible studies, reflection and horsemanship 
instruction are an integral part of the total experience. 

SHERWOOD FOREST CAMP 

(Canadian Association for the Mentally Retarded) 

Founded: 1968 

Capacity: 115 

Session: 1-3 weeks June-September 

Fee: $5.00 per day 

Location: Beausejour, Manitoba 

Contact: Mrs. Evelyn Todd 

46-825 Sherbrook Street, Winnipeg R3A 1M5 
786-4819 

Purpose: To promote a facility for mentally retarded children 

and adults where they may have camping experiences. 

SUNRISE LUTHERAN CAMP 

(Central Canada Synod of the Lutheran Church in America) 

Founded: 1946 

Capacity: 63 

Session: 1 week June-September 

Fee: $20.00 

Location: Husavick, Manitoba 


40 



* 


Contact: Rev. John Kunkel 

151 Garrioch Avenue, Winnipeg R3J 2T4 
889-1140 

Purpose: Education in Bible knowledge; training in Christian 

living and community; appreciation of creation and 
stewardship of resources; physical growth and recrea¬ 
tion. 


tUKRAINIAN PARK CAMP 
(Ukranian Catholic Diocese of Manitoba) 


Founded: 

1950 

Capacity: 

300 in separate groups of boys and girls 

Session: 

6 weeks October to May 

Fee: 

$52.50 for 2 weeks 

Location: 

One mile north of Camp Morton, Manitoba 

Contact: 

Rev. Roman Kysilewsky 

115 McGregor Street, Winnipeg R2W 4V6 

589-5025 

Purpose: 

The camp is open for children to give them a healthy 
rest, give them training to be good Canadian citizens 
and give them good training in morals and discipline. 

UNITED CHURCH OF CANADA 

Manitoba Conference, 

120 Maryland Street, 

Winnipeg R3G 1 LI 

774-8529 


(1) ROCK LAKE UNITED CHURCH CAMP 

Founded: 

1900 

Capacity: 

56 

Session: 

Available for rental year-round 

Fee: 

3 days $12; 6 days $25; 10 days $40.00 

Location: 

North shore Rock Lake 

Contact: 

Frank Van Dusen 

Box 324, Pilot Mound, Manitoba R0G 1P0 

337-21 Crystal City 

Purpose: 

To provide a camping experience on a Christian basis 
for all ages, of all backgrounds. To enrich Christian 
understanding of God, man and the world. To develop 
Christian personality, character and fellowship. 

(2) CAMPTOTOGAN 

(Portage Presbytery United Church) 

Founded: 

1960 

Capacity: 

48 

Session: 

6 days July-August 

Fee: 

$23.00 

Location: 

Lake Manitoba 

Contact: 

Rev. Ken Rentz 

27-14th Street N.W., Portage La Prairie, Manitoba 
857-7338 

Purpose: 

Creating an "Intention Christian Community" in the 
out-of-doors. 


t(3) UNITED CHURCH FRESH AIR CAMP 
(CAMP ROBERTSON) 

(Winnipeg Presbytery United Church) 

Founded: 1904 

Capacity: 120 

Session: 10 days May-September 

Fee: Based on sliding scale of income 

Location: Loni Beach, Gimli, Manitoba 

Contact: Camp Director 

730 Alexander Ave., Winnipeg R3E 1H9 
772-6842 (after May 1) 

Purpose: To provide people of all participating ages with an 

experience of growth, that is, a heightened awareness 
of themselves as persons in a new environment as well 
as an appreciation of the natural environment and each 
individual's responsibility to and place in that environ¬ 
ment. 


(4) WELMMAN LAKE CAMP 

Founded: 1955 

Capacity: 50 

Session: 6 days - July 

Fee: $16 each camper; $14 (if two from a family); $12.00 

(if three from a family) 

Contact: Murray Wenstob 

Box 42, Swan River, Manitoba R0L 1Z0 
734-2957 


Purpose: An opportunity to experience within a Christian com¬ 

munity, the out-of-doors and group living and to learn 
Christian attitudes and camp skills. 


tCAMP WANNAKUMBAC 
(Manitoba Farm Bureau) 


Founded: 

1940 

Capacity: 

72 (co-ed) 

Session: 

7 days Mid-June — September 1 

Fee: 

Available upon request 

Location: 

Clear Lake, Manitoba 

Contact: 

Bob Douglas 

385 St. Mary Avenue, Winnipeg R3C 0N1 

943-2500 

Purpose: 

To provide urban and rural children with a co-operative 
group living experience in a setting close to nature, 
encouraging the development of the skills of each indi¬ 
vidual camper through a challenging and comprehensive 
program. 

WINKLER 

BIBLE CAMP 

(Winkler Bible Camp Association) 

Founded: 

1949 

Capacity: 

90 

Session: 

8 days July-August 

Fee: 

$27.00 

Location: 

7 miles northwest of Winkler on Hwy. No. 3 

Contact: 

Erwin Penner 

Box 238, Winkler, Manitoba 

325-7379 

Purpose: 

To lead the camper into new experiences with Christ, 
other people and nature. To help develop the camper 
spiritually, socially, educationally and morally through 
a varied program. 

Y.M.C.A. CAMPING DEPARTMENT 

t (1) CAMP STEPHENS - BOYS 

Founded: 

1891 

Capacity: 

144 

Session: 

Three 2-week July-August 

Fee: 

$140.00 

Location: 

Kenora, Ontario 

Contact: 

Punch Jackson 

301 Vaughan Street, Winnipeg R3B 2N7 

942-8157 

Purpose: 

To provide a positive outdoor experience for boys 
8-16 years. 

(2) CAMP STEPHENS - GIRLS 

Founded: 

1963 

Capacity: 

144 

Session: 

One 2-weeks August 17-30 

Fee: 

$140.00 

Location: 

Kenora, Ontario 

Contact: 

Lydia Keep 

c/o St. James Y.M.C.A. 

150 Ferry Road, St. James R3J 1V7 

888-7923 

Purpose: 

To provide a positive experience out-of-doors for girls 
8-16 years. 

(3) COUNSELLOR TRAINING PROGRAM 

Capacity: 

32 

Session: 

6-8 weeks July-September 

Fee: 

$200.00 

Location: 

Kenora, Ontario 

Contact: 

Miss Lydia Keep 
c/o St. James Y.M.C.A., 

150 Ferry Road, St. James R3J 1V7 

888-7924 

Purpose: 

To provide a training experience for boys and girls 
15-16 years of age. An indepth training event for future 
camp counsellors. 

(4) VOYAGEURS AND SERENDIPITY 

Founded: 

1963 

Capacity: 

80 

Session: 

Three 2-week July-August 

Fee: 

$150.00 

Location: 

Kenora, Ontario 

Contact: 

Mr. Jim King 

301 Vaughan Street, Winnipeg R3B 2N7 

942-8157 

Purpose: 

To offer an adventurous wilderness canoe-tripping pro¬ 
gram to boys ages 13-16 and girls 12-16. Wilderness 
skills and individuality are expressed in each group of 
campers. 


41 


ASSOCIATE MEMBERS 


CITY OF WINNIPEG, COMMUNITY OF ST. BONIFACE, 
PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT 

Contact: Don Carrie 

219 Provencher Blvd. 

Winnipeg R2H 3B5 
947-0161 Ext. 234 

CONFERENCE CAMP COMMITTEE-UNITED CHURCH 
OF CANADA 

Contact: Shanley Parkinson 

706 Harstone Road, 

Charleswood, Man. R3R 1E2 
837-1277 


TOWN OF SELKIRK PARKS AND RECREATION 

Contact: Mr. Vern Desmet 

200 Eaton Avenue, 

Selkirk, Manitoba 
(204) 482-4321 


TRANSCONA PARKS AND RECREATION 

Contact: Mrs. Phyllis Hall 

401 Pandora W., 

Transcona R2C 1M7 
222-5221 


INDIVIDUAL MEMBERS 


MR. LARRY AUSTMAN 

c/o North Y.M.C.A., 

N.E. College & McGregor, 
Winnipeg 

MR. ED CORNELSON 

Box 120, 

Altona, Manitoba R0G 0B0 

ELSIE HOPKINS 

712 Elmhurst Road, 
Winnipeg R3R 0V1 

SANDY HYMAN 

804 Ash Street, 

Winnipeg R3N 0R8 


MISS LYNDA KEEP 

c/o St. James Y.M.C.A., 

150 Ferry Road, 

Winnipeg R3J 1V7 

MR. MAC McCORQUODALE 

159 Kings Drive, 

Winnipeg R3T 3G2 

SUSAN McKAY 

400-372 Assiniboine, 
Winnipeg R3C 0Y2 

MR. JOHN MACBETH 

c/o Y.M.C.A., 

301 Vaughan Street, 

Winnipeg R3B 2N7 


MR. JOHN W. MARTENS 

665 Kilkenny Drive, 

Winnipeg R3T 3B3 

GERALD MIRECKI 

261 Chelsey Avenue, 

Phone 334-4912 

MR. GEORGE NEUFELD 

Box 120, 

Altona, Manitoba R0G 0B0 

MRS. SHANLEY PARKINSON 

706 Harstone Road, 

Winnipeg R3R 1E2 


CAENIE PYRCZ 

c/o Family Bureau of Greater Wpg., 
264 Edmonton Street, 

Winnipeg R3C 1R9 

RAINBOW RIDGE RANCH 

Clandeboye, Manitoba 
602-234 Ronald Street, 

Winnipeg R3J 3J4 

MARGOTSAMBROOKE 

128 St. Claire, 

Winnipeg R2C 0V6 

SALLY SHWETZ 

251 Wildwood Park, 

Winnipeg R3T 0E4 


COMMERCIAL MEMBERS 


JOHN MARTEN CO. LTD. 

Mr. Bob Morrison 
84 Isabel Street, 

Winnipeg R3A 1E9 
775-4477 

Sporting Goods — Wholesale 

NORWOOD TENT AND AWNING CO. LTD. 

Mr. Cliff Fryers 
1235 Sargent Avenue, 

Winnipeg R3E 0G2 
774-2444 

Trailers, cabanas, boat covers, awnings, tents and tarpaulins 

SALADA FOODS LTD. 

Mr. J.F. Webster 
2003 Portage Avenue, 

Winnipeg R3J 0K3 
,889-4566 

Tea, Rise TV' Shine Crystals, Dessert Products, James, jellies, potato 
products, pie-fillings. Sa/ada dressings and pickles. 


TANDY LEATHER COMPANY 

Mr. Lloyd Jones 
304 Edmonton Street, 

Winnipeg R3B 2L2 
943-0096 

Supplies for leathercraft, resin casting, copper tooling, candle¬ 
making, Indian Lore and mac ram e. 

WEIDMAN BROTHERS LTD. 

Mr. Donald Weidman 
60 Bunting Street, 

Winnipeg R2X 2P6 
586-8201 

Wholesale groceries and confectionery. 


The use of this directory for commercial purposes without the written consent of the Manitoba Camping Association 

is prohibited. 

The information contained in this directory is supplied by member camps and is correct to the best of our knowledge at the 

time of publication. 


42 



neui Bf un/wick Comping A//oci<ilion/ 

A/zocicilion de Comping du 
nouveou-Dfun/wick 

P.O. Box 373 
Fredericton, N.B. 


EXECUTIVE 


President 

Rev. Philip Giberson 
Box 5, Bath, N.B. 
(506) 278-3771 


Vice-President 
Mr. Henri Lanctin 
281 Dominion Street 
Moncton, N.B. 
855-4365 


Secretary 

Connie Bothwell 
Dept, of Physical Education 
University of New Brunswick 
Fredericton, N.B. 

453-4579 / home 455-9861 

Treasurer 

Mrs. Joan Coates 
525 Aberdeen Street 
Fredericton, N.B. 

455-3268 


Directors 

Mr. Ralph Richardson 

247 Ogden Drive, Riverview, N.B. 

386-3268 

Mr. Kim Strachan 
Y.M.C.A., 68 Highfield Street 
Moncton, N.B. 

382-2591 

Mr. Herb Northcott 

151 King St. East, St. John, N.B. 

657-2290 


AIMS AND OBJECTIVES 

To further the interest and welfare of children, youth and adults through camping as an educative, character-building and 
constructive recreational experience. 

To develop and encourage high standards in camping and the maintenance thereof. 

To conduct seminars, conferences and clinics and act as a co-ordinating body for camping in New Brunswick. 

Note: New Brunswick has issued a list of desirable practices for camps. It will continue to work on camp accreditation. 

The use of this directory for commercial purposes without the written permission of the N.B. Camping Association/Associa- 
tion de Camping du N.-B. is prohibited. 

The information contained in this directory is supplied by member camps and is correct to the best of our knowledge at the 
time of publication. 


ATLANTIC BIBLE CAMPS 
Hampton Station, N.B. 

Operates with camps and retreats through¬ 
out the summer. 

Hiking, Bible study, crafts, etc. make up 
the programme. 

CAMP BEAVERBROOK 

Box 876, Saint John, N.B. E2L 4C3 

Location: Grande Digue 

Underprivileged children included in the 

programme. 

Sponsor: The Salvation Army 
Contact Person: Capt. M. Foley. 

BOY SCOUTS OF CANADA 

151 King Street East, Saint John, N.B. 

Various camps and sites are located through¬ 
out the province. 

Usual Scout and Cub activities at all camps. 

EAST END BOYS CLUB 
43 Fergus Street, Moncton, N.B. 


NEW BRUNSWICK CAMPS 

CAMP ELM TREE 

309 St. Patrick St., Bathurst, N.B. 

Retarded children's camping, weekend camp¬ 
ing, July and August period. 

Senior Citizens' camping. 

Owner: United Church in Bathurst 

CAMP GLENBURN 

27 Wellington Row, Saint John, N.B. 

Location: near Saint John 

Operates for the summer. Crafts, swimming, 

hiking, etc. featured. 

Sponsor: Y.W.C.A. 

LAC LIVINGSTON LAKE 
15 Rue Everett, Moncton, N.B. 

Location: Albert County near Fundy Park, 
54 miles from Moncton. 

An outdoor guidance centre operated as a 
residential camp for boys and girls ages 
8 to 18. 

Sponsor: Moncton Boys Club 
Director: Doug Bradshaw. 


MONCTON FAMILY CAMP 
Box 731, Moncton, N.B. 

Contact Person: Kim Strachan. 


NEW BRUNSWICK COUNCIL OF 
GIRL GUIDES OF CANADA 

Various sites and camps are used during 
the summer months. 

Provincial Commissioner: Mrs. Irene Coates 
525 Aberdeen St., Fredericton, N.B. 


SAINT JOHN VALLEY BIBLE 
CAMP 

Box 355, Hartland, N.B. 

Location: Somerville, Carleton County. 
Entrance is near the World's Longest 
Covered Bridge. 

Operates 6 weeks in summer with 7-day 
periods. 

A Christian camp offering Bible study, 
swimming, riding, riflery, hikes, etc. 
Director: Rev. Fred Hanson. 


43 


NEW BRUNSWICK 


CAMPSHIKTEHAWK 

Location: near Bristol, Carleton County. 

8 weeks of camp'ng for various age groups. 
A modern dining hall with electric heat 
offers winter activities. 

Operated by: United Baptist Churches 
Director: Charles Wry, Bath, N.B. 


Charles McNair, 

Box 68, Andover, N.B. 

Mrs. James Bateman, 

R.R. Dorchester Crossing, N.B. 

Mrs. Joyce MacKenzie, 

22 Dufferin St., Campbellton, N.B. 
(Camp Chaleur) 


CAMP WILDWOOD 

Location: near Buctouche, Kent County. 
Operates all summer. Bible study, crafts, 
music, etc. 

A camp with swimming pool and some heated 
buildings for late fall and winter activities. 
Contact Person: Frank Lutes, Box 564, 
Moncton, N.B. 


PERSONAL MEMBERSHIPS 

Tedd Weyman, 

59 Lansdowne St., Fredericton, N.B. 
Susan Hoar, 

80 Pine Glen Rd., Apt. 11, 

Riverview, N.B. 

Ralph Richardson 
(Camp Wildwood) 


CAMP WOOLASTOOK 
Muniac, N.B. 

Location: the Muniac Stream in Victoria 
County. 

Bible study, recreation, sports, handcrafts. 
Sponsor: The United Church of Canada 
Contact Person: Rev. Fred Garnett, 

Box 122, Andover, N.B. 


Bill Palmer, 

1014 Smythe St., Fredericton, N.B. 
(Dept, of Youth) 

Philip A. Giberson 

(Saint John Valley Bible Camp) 

Connie Bothwell, 

813 George St., Fredericton, N.B. 


newfoundlond 6 labrador 

Camping Q//ociation 

P.O. Box 4188 

St. John's, Newfoundland 

1975 EXECUTIVE 


Past President 
President 
Vice President 
Secretary 
Treasurer 


Honorary President 
Mr. Frank Jennings 
Mrs. Barbara Taylor 
Mr. Stan. Cook 
Mrs. Dorothy Winter 
Mr. Jim Winter 


Dr. J. Douglas Eaton 
Directors 


Standards Chairman 
Newsletter Editor 


Mr. Gary Gray 
Mr. Wilfred Thomas 
Mrs. Silvia Manning 
Mrs. Dorothy Winter 
Mr. Gratton Sheely 


OBJECTIVES OF THE ASSOCIATION 

The Newfoundland & Labrador Camping Association is a Provincial Section of the Canadian Camping Association (which 
was incorporated by Letters Patent at Ottawa November 5, 1949). 


This is an organization of people who believe in organized camping as an educational, recreational movement located in the 
out-of-doors setting, dedicated to furthering the growth and development of children and adults, through experiencing 
group-life under qualified persons. 


The objectives of the Newfoundland & Labrador Camping Association are: 

- to further the interests and welfare of children, youths and adults through camping as an educative, 
character-building and constructive recreational experience 


— to act as a Newfoundland & Labrador promotional and co-ordinating body for camping through this 
province 


— to develop, maintain and recognize high standards in camping. 


CAMP ACCREDITATION PROGRAM 

One of the major objectives of the Camping Association is to improve camping standards, and to achieve this, the Association 
established minimum standards in 1970. These standards cover facilities, health, sanitation, safety, staff and administration. 
Member camps may apply for accreditation under this program. Members of the standards committee will visit the camp, and 
discuss the facilities and operation with the Camp Director. If the standards are met, the camp is accredited. 

The Accreditation is for a two-year duration. At the end of two years, the camp will be contacted to determine if a new visit 
is necessary. Accreditation is not transferable from site to site, nor from owner to owner. Should either occur, then a re-visit 
would become necessary. 


44 







NEWFOUNDLAND & LABRADOR 


The program has been a great help to many camps, as it provides a yard-stick to measure their performance. It is primarily 
educational, and will eventually be tied in closely with the education and staff training program now being developed by 
the Association. 

Although in the initial stages it has been a problem providing the necessary staff to visit the many camps that have applied 
for accreditation, the program has been of great benefit for both the camp Directors and the visiting teams. For the parents 
of camp children, the program provides assurance that the standards set by the association are maintained in member camps. 

The Standards, and the way to apply them, are under continuing critical examination, and they will be changed from time 
to time to meet the needs of our members. 


Artiban (The Anglican Church) 
Burry Heights (The United Church) 
Camp Cabot (YMCA) 

Camp Caribou (YMCA) 

Camp Cormack (YMCA) 

Diabetic Children's Camp 
4-H Camp Nipper 
Greentrees (The Girl Guides) 

Camp Hartery (Roman Catholic) 
Kill-Devil (The Anglican Church) 
Labrador Christian Youth Camp 


INDEX OF CAMPS 

Loon Bay (The United Church) 

Mint Brook (The Anglican Church) 

Northern Arm Camp (The Salvation Army) 
Pinchgut Lake Camp (The Girl Guides) 

C.A. Pippy Park (Boy Scout and Girl Guide 
Campsite) 

City of St. John's Day Camp 
Sandy Point Provincial Camp and Training Centre 
(The Girl Guides) 

Seventh-Day Adventist Camp 

Camp of the Silver Birches (The Salvation Army) 

West Haven (The United Church) 


ARTIBAN (The Anglican Church) 


Capacity: 

Location: 

Season: 

Fees: 


Facilities: 


Contact Person: 


80-90 

Codroy Valley Area 
June to September 

$2.25 per day (church groups) — fees can be 
worked out for other groups requesting use 
of facilities 

Pool, hiking trail, large cook-house and eating 
space, athletic field, cabins for campers (6-8 
per cabin), some boating, beautiful area. 
Program & Facilities 
Reverend Owen Coffen, Channel, Nfld. 


BURRY HEIGHTS (The United Church) 

Capacity: 60 

Location: Shoe Cove — 11 miles east of St. John's 

Season: June 1st to October 30th 

Fees: $2.00 per day per child, plus registration — 

rates for older groups available on request 
Facilities: Dining room assembly area, cabins, swimming, 

hiking, usual outdoor activities. 

Contact Person: Program Facilities 

Reverend Robert Belbin Mr. Lester Lewis 
1 Churchill Street 13 Blackhall Place 

Mount Pearl, Nfld. St. John's, Nfld. 

Phone: 368-8194 Phone: 579-0949 


CAMP CABOT (YMCA) 


Capacity: 

Location: 

Season: 

Fees: 

Facilities: 


Contact Person: 


30 

Indian Meal Line (Robbins Pond) 

4 weeks 

$12.00 - $15.00 per week 

Co-ed Day Camp with emphasis on small group 
activities — ages of campers 9 to 13 years — 
operated by YMCA. 

Program 

Gary Gray (YMCA) 

Box 785, St. John's, Nfld. Phone: 726-3197 


CAMP CARIBOU (YMCA) 


Capacity: 

Location: 

Season: 

Fees: 

Facilities: 


Contact Person: 


14 

Indian Meal Line 
2 weeks 

$35.00 per week 

Tenting for boys 11 to 13 years old — activities 
wilderness nature — live-in resident camp — no 
buildings. 

Program 

Mr. Gary Gray (YMCA) 

Box 785, St. John's, Nfld. Phone: 726-3197 


CAMP CORMACK (YMCA) 


Capacity: 

Location: 

Season: 

Fees: 

Facilities: 

Contact Person: 


12 per trip 

Mobile camp (canoe camping) 

2 weeks 
$35.00 per trip 

This is a canoe trip for boys 13 to 15 years, 
operated by the YMCA. 

Program 

Mr. Gary Gray (YMCA) 

Box 785, St. John's, Nfld. Phone: 726-3197 


DIABETIC CHILDREN'S CAMP 


Capacity: 

Location: 

Season: 

Fees: 

Facilities: 


Contact Person: 


35 for camp 
Use Burry Heights 
10 days 

$15.00 per camper 

Lodge with kitchen and two rooms, pond for 
swimming, eight cabins (heated), hiking trails, 
canoeing, soccer field, play area. 


Program 

Mrs. W. Hiscock 
Site 7, Box 17, 
St. John's, Nfld. 
Phone: 368-9660 


Facilities 
Mr. Leslie Lewis 
13 Blackhall Place 
St. John's, Nfld. 
Phone: 579-0949 


4H - CAMP NIPPER 


Capacity: 

Location: 

Season: 

Fees: 

Facilities: 
Contact Person: 


50 

North Pond — Gambo 
Brook Road 
8 wfeeks 

$10.00 per week 
Not winterized 

Program 

Mr. Gary Dewling 
Dept. Rehabilitation 
and Recreation 
Confederation Bldg. 

St. John's, Nfld. 

Phone: Res. 722-7743 
Bus. 722-1435 


— 15 miles up Mint 


Facilities 
Duncan Ford 
Chairman—Provincial 
4H Camp Commitee 
c/o Mrs. M. Ford 
Dept. Rehabilitation 
and Recreation 
Confederation Bldg. 
St. John's, Nfld. 


GREENTREES (The Girl Guides) 


Capacity: 

Location: 

Season: 

Fees: 

Facilities: 


50 (30 in tents — 20 in lodge) 

V /2 miles from Trinity — 40 miles east of 

Clarenville on the Bonavista Peninsula 

May to October 

$3.00 per day per camper 

Use of pool (Trinity Cabins), lodge approx. 

54' x 36', kitchen equipped with oil stove, two 


45 





doubled-bunk supervisor rooms, large recreation 
room, two dormitories, water must be carried, 
electric light, tents, outdoor fireplaces and eating 
facilities, nature trails, historical sites, bay suit* 
able for boating. 

Contact Person: Facilities 

Mr. S.R. Morris 

c/o Trinity Cabins, Trinity, Trinity Bay, Nfld. 
Phone: 464-3657 


CAMP HARTERY (Roman Catholic) 

Capacity: 40 

Location: 5 miles west of Deer Lake 

Season: 8 weeks 

Fees: Sliding Scale 

Facilities: Dining Hall, auditorium, waterfront, tents, 

cleared camping sites. 

Contact Person: Program 

Mr. A.J. Downey 

93 East Valley Road, Corner Brook, Nfld. 
Phone: 634-4277 


KILL-DEVIL (The Anglican Church) 

Capacity: 100 plus 

Bonne Bay 
June to September 
approximately $2.25 per day 
Pool, hiking trails, cabins (accommodating 6-8 
campers), athletic fields, very scenic area, some 
boating, cook-house and eating area to accom¬ 
modate 100, main building 50-60. 

Program Facilities 

Reverend George Spencer Mr. H.A. House 
Woody Point, Nfld. Cobb Lane, 

Corner Brook, Nfld. 


Location. 

Season: 

Fees: 

Facilities: 


Contact Person: 


LABRADOR CHRISTIAN YOUTH CAMP 


Capacity: 

Location: 

Season: 

Fees: 

Facilities: 


Contact Person: 


60 

Gosling Lake, Goose Bay, Labrador 

May to October 

$1.00 per day per camper 

Winterized — wood stoves in lower section of 

two-storey camp, four bunk-houses, cook-house, 

generator shed, area where tents can be set up, 

lake suitable for boating and swimming, suitable 

for hiking although hiking trails are not available. 

Program & Facilities 

The Commanding Officer, 

The Salvation Army, P.O. Box 52, 

Happy Valley, Labrador 
Phone: 896-3118 


NORTHERN ARM CAMP (The Salvation Army) 


Capacity: 
Location: 
Season: 

Fees: 

Facilities: 

Contact Person: 


110 

Northern Arm, Botwood 

Summer months 

$14.00 to $18.00 per camper 

Auditorium — capacity 400, large cabins, dining 

hall, bathroom facilities, playing area. 

Program & Facilities 
Major W. Ralph Stanley 
Provincial Youth Secretary 
12 Springdale Street, St. John's, Nfld. 

Phone: 726-0047 


PINCHGUT LAKE CAMP (The Girl Guides) 


Capacity: 

Location: 

Season: 

Fees: 

Facilities: 

Contact Person: 


100 

Pinchgut Lake, Gull Pond Road 
June to September 
Varies with group 

Canoeing, hiking trails, tents, cook-house, dining 
hall, dormitory for 50 persons, cooking shelters. 
Program Facilities 

Pinchgut Camp Committee Mrs. R.W. MacLeod 
P.O. Box 584, 28 Central Street, 

Corner Brook, Nfld. Corner Brook, Nfld. 

Phone: 634-5589 Phone: 634-5589 


C.A. PIPPY PARK (Boy Scout & Girl Guide Campsite) 


Capacity: 

Location: 

Season: 

Fees: 

Facilities: 


Contact Person: 


100 indoors — 224 in tents 
Middle Pond, St. John's 

June 1st to September 30th plus winter camping 
$10.00 per week for group site (56 persons) 
Pool, canoeing, hiking trails, tents, boating, 
buildings. The site will be available for all Boy 
Scout Groups and Girl Guide Groups in New¬ 
foundland. Other youth groups may use the 
site by special arrangement. The site will not be 
available to the general public. Each group will 
arrange its own program. 

Program 

Girl Guides Boy Scouts 

Mrs. Borry Crane Provincial Headqtrs. 

6 Ellis Place 288 Duckworth St. 

St. John's, Nfld. St. John's, Nfld. 

Phone: 579-1698 Phone: 726-6150 


Facilities 

R.J. Vardy, 2 Long Pond Rd., St. John's, Nfld. 
Phone: 753-1378 

753-1200 Local 2789 (Business) 


LOON BAY 

Capacity: 

Location: 

Season: 

Fees: 

Facilities: 


Contact Person: 


50 

Loon Bay, Notre Dame Bay 
May 15th - October 30th 

$2.00 per day plus registration — rates to Adult 
Groups on request 

Large dining room and lodge, cabins can accom¬ 
modate small groups, hiking, swimming (in the 
sea). 

Program Facilities 

Reverend Ralph Taylor Herbert Manuel 

Bishop's Falls, Nfld. 121 Memorial Drive 

Phone: 258-6236 Gander, Nfld. 

Phone: 256-8449 


MINT BROOK 

Capacity: 

Location: 

Season: 

Fees: 

Facilities: 


Contact Person: 


(The Anglican Church) 

100 campers 

Mint Brook — Gambo — 'A mile east of turn-off 
to Bonavista North 
June to September 

$2.25 (church groups) — fees can be arranged 
for others seeking use of facilities 
Pool (i.e. river) canoeing, hiking, trails, tents, 
main building, accommodating purposes — 100 
(winterized). Two other buildings can accom¬ 
modate 70-80, smaller building, bathroom faci¬ 
lities, showers, electric heat, salmon fishing, 
athletic fields. 


Program 

Diocesan Synod Office 
68 Queen's Road 
St. John's, Nfld. 

Phone: 726-6697 


Facilities 
Mr. Eli Rogers 
9 Darling Street 
St. John's, Nfld. 
Phone: 722-5086 


CITY OF ST. JOHN'S DAY CAMP 


Capacity: 

Location: 

Season: 

Fees: 

Facilities: 


Contact Person: 


40 campers 
Rotary Sunshine Park 
July, August 
$10.00 per week 

Swimming area, canoeing, hiking trails, main 
building with bathroom facilities, athletic field, 
play areas. 

Program & Facilities 
Mr. Noel Vinnicombe 
Assistant Director of Recreation 
City Hall, St. John's, Nfld. 

Phone: 726-8820 


SANDY POINT PROVINCIAL CAMP AND 
TRAINING CENTRE (The Girl Guides) 


Capacity: 

Location: 

Season: 


Fees: 

Facilities: 


Contact Person: 


90 under canvas — 30 in lodge 
at the mouth of the Exploits River 
mid-June to mid-September (under canvas), the 
lodge from mid-May to mid-November, depend¬ 
ing on the weather 

$15.00 approximately (depending on group 
using camp) 

Water-front (sandy beach on river), tents, lodge, 
three separate cleared camping sites for approxi¬ 
mately thirty girls each. 

Program Facilities 

Prov. Camp Commissioner Mrs. Marion Hornell 
Nfld. Council, Girl Guides 18 Monchy Road 
of Canada Grand Falls, Nfld. 

Bldg. 566, Pleasantville 
St. John's, Nfld. 

Phone: 726-1116 


46 


SEVENTH-DAY ADVENTIST CAMP 

Capacity: 60 

Location: West end of South Pond, Trans-Canada Highway 

Season: Summer months 

Fees: $14.00 per week 

Facilities: Pool, canoeing, hiking trails, boating, running 

water — chlorinated, play field. 

Contact Person: Program Facilities: 

Mr. George Schafer Rev. R.A. Matthews 

106 Freshwater Road 106 Freshwater Rd. 

St. John's, Nfld. St. John's, Nfld. 

Phone: 579-1152 Phone: 579-1152 


CAMP OF THE 

Capacity: 

Location: 

Season: 

Fees: 

Facilities: 


SILVER BIRCHES (The Salvation Army) 

65 

Pasedena 
8 weeks 

$14.00 to $18.00 per camper 
Dining hall, auditorium, cabins, electric heat, 
new site under development which will include 
hiking trails and tents. 


Contact Person: Program 

Captain Bill Reader 
Box 849 
Botwood, Nfld. 
Phone: 257-3135 


Facilities 

Maj. W. R. Stanley 
12 Springdale St. 

St. John's, Nfld. 
Phone: 726-0047 
OR 

Mr. Ben Barrett 
Camp Committee 
Chairman 
8 French's Road 
Corner Brook, Nfld. 
Phone: 634-6479 


WEST HAVEN (The United Church) 


Capacity: 

Location: 

Season: 

Fees: 

Facilities: 


Contact Person: 


60 

South Brook on Deer Lake 
June 1st to October 30th 

$2.00 per day per child plus registration — rates 
to adult groups available on request. 

Four large buildings, dining room, kitchen, two 
dormitories and assembly hall, swimming, hiking 
and the usual outdoor activities. 

Program Facilities 

Reverend Roger York Mr. Jack Murdock 

1 Station Road Deer Lake, Nfld. 

Corner Brook, Nfld. Phone: 635-2806 

Phone: 634-4242 


The use of this directory for commercial purposes without the written consent of the Newfoundland and Labrador Camping 

Association is prohibited. 

The information contained in this directory is supplied by member camps and is correct to the best of our knowledge at the 

time of publication. 


Ilovo Scotia Camping A//ociation 

Box 3243S 
Halifax, Nova Scotia B3J 3H5 


Honorary President: 

Bill Speed 

6692 Second Street 
Halifax, N.S. 

Past President: 

Marian Rosborough 
55 Purcell's Cove Road 
Halifax, N.S. 

President & Acting Treasurer: 
Rev. David Boston 
P.O. Box 7035 N 
Halifax, N.S. 

Vice-President: 

Paul Potter 
2623 Fuller Terrace 
Halifax, N.S. 


Arthur Kidston Memorial Camp 
(United Church) 

104 Central Avenue 
Fairview, N.S. 


EXECUTIVE 

Secretary & Membership: 
Murray Wickwire 
1675 Cambridge Street 
Halifax, N.S. 

Standards Chairman: 

Rick Gilbert 
17B Rodney Road 
Dartmouth, N.S. 

Outdoor Education: 

Freda Wales 

6264 Payzant Avenue 

Halifax, N.S. 

Public Relations: 

Blanche Potter 
2623 Fuller Terrace 
Halifax, N.S. 


MEMBER CAMPS 

Big Cove Camp (Y.M.C.A.) 

P.O. Box 3024, Halifax South 
Halifax, N.S. 


Liaison: N.S. Dept, of Recreation: 
Allan Clark 
5 Jayden Drive 
Dartmouth, N.S. 

Members at Large: 

John Caldwell 

Ross Road Elementary School 
R.R. No. 1, Dartmouth, N.S. 

Glyn Bissix 

Dept, of Recreation & Physical Ed. 
Acadia University 
Wolfville, N.S. 

Youth Representative: 

Doddie Goodwin 
Box 192 

New Glasgow, N.S. 


Camp Brunswick 

Brunswick Street United Church 
2107 Brunswick Street 
Halifax, N.S. 


47 



NOVA SCOTIA 


Camp Carmel 

34 George Street 
New Waterford 
Cape Breton, N.S. 

Camp Discovery 
Summer Address: 

Dr. Eleanor Hamilton 
Inverness, N.S. 

Winter Address: 

Dr. Eleanor Hamilton 
Hamilton School Incorporated 
Sheffield, Mass., 01257, U.S.A. 

Division of Mission in Canada 
P.O. Box 750 
Sackville, N.B. 

Camp Geddie (Presbyterian) 

805 Maritime Building 
New Glasgow, N.S. 

Girl Guides 

Mrs. Mary Sargeant 
31 Esdaile Avenue 
Dartmouth, N.S. 


Atlantic Christian Training Centre 
Don Reid 

Tatamagouche, N.S. 


Robert D. Howell 

240 Portland St., Apt. 303 
Dartmouth, N.S. 

Bill Reeves 

Dept, of Recreation & Physical Ed. 
Acadia University 
Wolfville, N.S. 

Kenneth MacDougal 

R.R. No. 1, Waverley, N.S. 

Mrs. Elizabeth Stoddard 
99 Symonds Street 
Dartmouth, N.S. 

Ken Marchant 

Dept, of Physical Education 
Nova Scotia Agriculture College 
Truro, N.S. 


Johnston Cristian Park 
(Christian Church) 

Wilfred Cosman 

Weymouth, Digby County, N.S. 

Lake Sherbrooke United Church Camp 

c/o Mr. N.J. Dupuis 
21 Elizabeth Avenue 
Bridgewater, N.S. 

Camp Morse 

Department of Public Welfare 
P.O. Box 696 
Halifax, N.S. 

Provincial 4-H Clubs 

Marlene MacMillan 
Provincial 4-H Supervisor 
Dept, of Agriculture & Marketing 
Truro, N.S. 

St. Anne's Anglican Youth Camp 
Box 489 
Middleton, N.S. 


AGENCIES 

Board of Christian Education 

Atlantic Baptist Convention 
Box 1053, Saint John, N.B. 


INDIVIDUAL MEMBERS 

Dyane MacLeod 
109 Church Street 
Antigonish, N.S. 

David MacDonald 
Vieth House 
3115 Vieth Street 
Halifax, N.S. 

Mrs. A.J. Hustins, Jr. 

125 Shore Drive 
Bedford, N.S. 

Bill Matheson 

5261 Hanover Street 
Halifax, N.S. 


Scotia Glen 

(Salvation Army Camp) 

Captain K. Rideout 
N.S. Divisional Headquarters 
1329 Barrington Street 
Halifax, N.S. 

The Sight Point 

Summer Address: 

Box 59 

Inverness, N.S. 

Winter Address: 

Mrs. Jean Roxoner, Director 

61 Middle Street 

Concord, Mass., 01742, U.S.A. 

Camp Tidnish 
Mr. H.J.B. Epton 
21 Campbell Street 
Sydney, N.S. 

Camp Wapomeo (Y.M.C.A.) 

P.O. Box 86 
Yarmouth, N.S. 


Halifax South Open School 

6026 University Avenue 
Halifax, N.S. 


Tom Creighton 

2623 Fuller Terrace 
Halifax, N.S. 

Guy Reid 

1922 Oxford Avenue 
Halifax, N.S. 

Heather Zinck 
New Garmany 
Lunenburg County, N.S. 

Debbie Gilbert 

17B Rodney Road 
Dartmouth, N.S. 


The use of this directory for commercial purposes without the written consent of the Nova Scotia Camping Association 

is prohibited. 

The information in this directory has been supplied by member camps and is correct to the best of our knowledge at the 

time of publication. 




48 













Ontario Camping A//ociation 

Suite 203, 102 Eglinton Ave. E. 
Toronto, Ontario M4P 1E1 
Telephone: (416) 486-8630 
Mrs. Nodja R. Read, Secretary 


ADVISORY BOARD 

DIRECTORS 

President / Jack Pearse 
Immediate Past President / Ron Johnstone 
Vice Presidents / Miss Jocelyn Palm 
Miss Helen Stewart 
Kirk Wipper 

Treasurer /William V. Swift 
Recording Secretary / Miss Kim Ball 

COMMITTEE CHAIRMEN 

Aquatics /Miss Lynda Geale 

History and Research / Mrs. Elizabeth Raymer 

Conference /Miss Kim Ball 

Counsellor Conference / Miss Pat Pearse 

Day Camping / Tony Lea 

Education / Mrs. Barbara Gilchrist 

Environmental Concerns / Clare Magee 

Legislation / Jack Bowman 

Membership & Directory / Paul Rushton 

Nominations / Ron Johnstone 

Outdoor Education / John S. Russell 

Public Relations / Don Pringle 

Standards / Al Goodman & Cliff Labbett 

Woodsmanship / Ms Andrea Dillon 

MEMBERS AT LARGE AND 
SPECIAL REPRESENTATIVES 

Rev. George G. Connolly Clifford Labbett 

Doug Dent Mrs. Ralph Raymer 

Peter Gilbert Miss Dorothy Walter 

Newsletter /Mrs. G.W. Flynn 

PAST PRESIDENTS 

*Taylor Statten, *Miss Mary Edgar, *E.A. Chapman, 
*H.A. Ward, Charles Plewman, Irwin Haladner, 

W.E. Yard, W. Bertram Danson, *John Hoyle, 

Miss Margaret Govan, Barry Lowes, Clifford Labbett, 
Mrs. J. Harry Ebbs, John Latimer, Ivan Robinson, 
Ron Johnstone. 

•(Deceased) 


THE ONTARIO CAMPING ASSOCIATION has given 
encouragement and direction to the camping movement in 
this Province since the 1940's. Comprised of those who 
support organized camping as an educational, recreational 
experience, guided by trained leaders in a natural environ¬ 
ment, it is committed to the preparation of children for 
participation, living and learning within the total community. 

The objectives of the Ontario Camping Association are: 

— "to further the interests and welfare of children and 

youths through camping as an educative character 

building and constructive recreational experience. 

— "to provide for the sharing of ideas and knowledge 

pertaining to the operation of children's camps. 

— "to develop and encourage high standards in camping. 

— "to provide information about camps and to interpret 

children's camping to parents and the general public. 

— "to strive for the recruitment and training of leader¬ 

ship for every phase of children's camping." 

Camp directors, leaders and counsellors voluntarily aim to 
achieve these objectives. Various committees continually 
study and explore methods related to enrichment and 
development of the camping experience. Services offered 
to the public include provision of speakers to groups desir¬ 
ing increased knowledge on camping benefits and oppor¬ 
tunities; a counsellor's bureau aids both directors and 
prospective camp leaders. Members of the Association 
meet regularly and annual conferences attract over one 
thousand persons who discuss and consider common 
policies and problems, exchange philosophies and know¬ 
ledge, and consequently achieve improved and innovative 
camping across the Province. 

Individuals or groups sharing the objectives of the Associa¬ 
tion and wishing to become identified with the camping 
movement in Ontario are welcome to apply for membership. 
The Ontario Camping Association does not recommend 
any camp or person. 


STANDARDS FOR ORGANIZED CAMPS 


I 


OITUIO CIHfllC iSSOCIUIOI 


Since its inception the Ontario Camping Association has emphasized constant upgrading of camping 
standards; April, 1965, marked the official acceptance by the Association of specific standards necessary 
for membership within it. Adherence to these MANDATORY STANDARDS determines the initial and 
continued accreditation of the member camp. Consequently, accredited Member Camps listed in this 
Directory subscribe to and comply with these standards. 

With high ideals and standards as guidelines, criteria are constantly being developed to insure that Accredi¬ 
ted Member Camps are safe, well operated, quality camping opportunities. The choice you make is an 
important one which will affect your child's development and future. Take the time and steps necessary 
to assure a wise decision! 


49 






INDEX OF CAMPS 

Kindly Note: All camps listed under "Girls", "Boys", "Boys and Girls", are RESIDENTIAL CAMPS, where the children will 
live away from home, for varying periods of one to eight weeks, depending upon the camp. 


GIRLS 


Ak-O-Mak 

John Island 

Owaissa 

Artaban-Bolton 

Kiawa 

Pioneer 

Big Canoe 

Kintail 

Queen Elizabeth 

Bonita Glen 

Kitchener Lions Youth 

Richildaca 

Brebeuf 

Kitchikewana 

Rolling Acres Ranch 

Cherith 

Kiwanis 

Simpresca 

Connemara 

Marygrove 

Summerland 

Couchiching 

Medeba 

Tanamakoon 

Davern 

Mi-A-Kon-Da 

Tapatoo 

Endobanah 

Mini-Yo-We 

Tapawingo 

Frontier Ranch 

Minwandum 

Wabanaki 

Gay Venture 

Oconto 

Wahcahmie 

Glen Bernard 

Onawaw 

Wapomeo 

lawah 

Ontario Girl Guides 

Wa-Sa-Ah-Bun 

Iona 

Ouareau 

White Bear 


BOYS 


Adanac 

Haliburton Scout Reserve 

Opemikon 

Ahmek 

lawah 

Orr-Walton 

Allsaw 

Iona 

Pathfinder 

Artaban-Bolton 

John Island 

Pine Crest 

Beausoleil 

Kakeka 

Pioneer 

Big Canoe 

Kandalore 

Ponacka 

Big Doe 

Keewaydin 

Queen Elizabeth 

Brebeuf 

Kilcoo 

Richildaca 

Chikopi 

Kintail 

Samac 

Columbus 

Kitchener Lions Youth 

Simpresca 

Connemara 

Kitchikewana 

Summerland 

Couchiching 

Kiwanis 

Voyageur 

De La Salle 

Mazinaw 

Wabanaki 

Endobanah 

Medeba 

Wabun 

Everton Scout Forest 

Mini-Yo-We 

Wa-Sa-Ah-Bun 

Frontier Ranch 

Minwassin 

White Bear 

Haliburton Hockey Haven 

Nominigue 

Wigwasati 


BOYS AND GIRLS 


Boys and girls camps are those having boys and girls on the one site at the same time. Many of these camps are co-educational 
and this is noted in their listing (co-ed). As the degree of co-educational programming varies from camp to camp, we suggest 
you contact the directors individually to ascertain the extent of co-education in their program. 

Allsaw 

Kawartha 

Rainbow Valley Ranch 

Arowhon 

Kelso 

Ramah 

Bil-O-Wood 

Kennebec 

Richildaca 

Blue Water 

Keswick Youth Camp 

Rollin' Acres 

B'nai B'rith of Ottawa 

Ki-wa-y 

Scott Mission Fresh Air Camp 

Bolton 

Kuriou 

Shalom 

Calumet 

Kwasind 

Sidrabene 

Circle 

Manitomono 

Solelim 

Crusaders 

Manitou-Wabing 

Sparrow Lake 

Crystal Springs 

Maple Leaf 

Swallowdale 

Dorion Bible Camp 

Massad 

Tamakwa 

Everton Scout 

Menesetung 

Tawingo 

Fair Glen 

Moorelands-Kawagama 

Timberlane 

Fraser Lake 

Moshava 

Trailfinder 

Genesee 

New Moon 

Unicamp 

Gesher 

Newport 

Wabikon 

Glenhuron 

Northland B'nai B'rith 

Wahanowin 

Hilltop 

Northway 

Walden 

Hollyburn 

Norval 

Wanakita 

lawah 

Ontario Camp Leadership Centre 

Wanapitei 

Iona 

Otterdale 

Wangoma 

Jackson's Point Camp #1 

Pioneer 

Wa-Sa-Ah-Bun 

John Island 

Pleasant Bay 

White Pine 

Kawabi 

Quin-Mo-Lac 

Winnebagoe 


50 



CAMPS FOR SPECIAL NEEDS 


Couchiching 

Huronda 

Ontario Society Crippled Children 

Etobicoke Recreation Department 

Kohai 

Shadow Lake 

Guelph Kiwanis (Belwood) 

Lake Joseph Holiday Centre 

Towhee 


DAY CAMPS 


At DAY CAMPS, children attend during the daytime only, generally on a Monday through Friday basis. However, some may 
offer evening programs, week-end programs and also 'overnights' to varying degrees. Contact with the camps is advisable to 

ascertain exactly what they provide. 

Adventure 

C.O.P.Y. 

North York Recreation Dept. 

Arrowhead 

Forest Valley 

Otonabee 

Bayview Glen 

Glenbrook 

Pauwating 

Chippewa (Hamilton) 

Gypsy Glen 

Podunk 

Chippewa Thunder Bay 

Kadimah 

Richildaca 

Circle 

Katonim 

Robin Hood 

Claireville 

Knotty Knoll 

Thunderbird 

Clover 

Montessori 

Totoredaca 


Tri-Bell 


Ackerman, Dr. Walter /Ramah 

Adamson, Mr. & Mrs. Brian / Gay Venture 

Allen, Mrs. J.R. /Ouareau 

Allman, James /Wanapitei 

Ambrose, Earl /Scott Mission 

Ayers, John / Katonim 

Babcock, Mr. & Mrs. W.J. / Richildaca 

Ball, Miss Kim /Ont. Girl Guide Camp 

Bell, Larry / Robin Hood 

Bird, Kathy / North York Day Camps 

Benedickson, Jamie / Wanapitei 

Bernstein, John / Northland B'nai B'rith 

Blackstock, J.B. / Mazinaw 

Breski, Miss Jessica / Cherith 

Brownston, Sam /Kadimah 

Buchanan, Miss Bonnie /Shadow Lake 

Bury, Malcolm / Y.M.C.A. Metro Toronto 

Butters, Mr. & Mrs. H.W. / Tanamakoon 

Calitis, Rev. F. /Sidrabene 

Cannon, Nancy J. /Mazinaw 

Carrol, Ghent /Kiwanis 

Cassidy, Rev. D.G. /Kintail 

Chamberlain, Miss Chloe /Crystal Springs 

Charfoos, Ronald B. /Tamakwa 

Chipperfield, William /Queen Elizabeth 

Chi vers, Howard P. / Keeway din 

Christensen, C.R. /Bolton 

Cochlin, Jim & Joan / Calumet 

Colbran, Carl /Allsaw 

Codd, Miss Judy /C.O.P.Y. 

Cole, Ted / Walden 

Coles, Roger L. / Guelph Kiwanis Bel wood 

Cooper, K.J. / Haliburton Scout Reserve 

Crystal, Doreen /Kohai 

Danson, John /Winnebagoe 

Davis, Mrs. Marion /Quin-Mo-Lac 

Dawson, Buck & Rose Mary / Ak-O-Mak 

Dent, Doug / Kitchener-Waterloo YMCA 

Dewar, Ronald /Manitomono 

Dobec, Mrs. E. / Mi-A-K on-Da 

Downer, Douglas W. /Pauwating 

Dugan, John E. / Genesee 

Dunnigan, Miss Ann / YWCA (Metro Toronto) 

Ebbs, Dr. & Mrs. J.H. / Taylor Statten 

Edgar, Brother / De La Salle 

Farrell, Mrs. N.L. / Mi-A-Kon-Da 

Fein, Ron /Arrowhead 

Feinstein, David / Tri-Bell 

Fine, Bert /Forest Valley 

Fleury, Bruce F. /Connemara 

Florian, Nick / Onondaga 

Forden, Mrs. C.E. /Kiawa 

Franken, Louis /Moshava 

Fraser, Mrs. V. / Etobicoke Pks. & Rec'n. 

Fry, Tony / YMCA (Metro Toronto) 

Gaffney, Mrs. Libby / Ottawa YM-YWCA 
Gebbett, Enid / Gipsy Glen 
Genge, Mr. & Mrs. D.J. /Quin-Mo-Lac 
Gery, Micha /Gesher 


INDEX OF CAMP DIRECTORS 

Gilchrist, Mr. & Mrs. J. / Glen Bernard 

Gil I is, Vince R. /Shadow Lake 

Goodman Al /New Moon 

Gullick, John /Couchiching 

Hall, Mrs. Shirley /Ont. Soc. Crippled Children 

Hambly, Sam G. / All saw 

Hamilton, Miss Christine /Owaissa 

Hannon, Steve / Kennebec 

Harmer, Rev. Ronald /Kwasind 

Harris, Mr. & Mrs. Bruce /Kawabi 

Harrison, Mr. & Mrs. C.F. /Otterda/e 

Harvison, Glen /Wigwasati 

Hazell, Mr. & Mrs. Harold /Rolling Acres Ranch 

Hersh, Mrs. Rose E. /Massad 

Hodgins, Bruce W. / Wanapitei 

Hollingworth, Major D. /G/enhuron 

Hopkins, Mrs. L. /Bayview Glen 

James, Andrew F. / Dor ion 

Jeffrey, Mr. & Mrs. L.E. /Frontier Ranch 

Johnstone, Mr. & Mrs. Ron /White Bear 

Joyce, Mrs. Ron / Big Canoe 

Kates, Eugene / Arowhon 

Kay, Mrs. Eleanor / YWCA (Metro Toronto) 

Keck, Mrs. Ursula /Hilltop 

Keefe, Martin / Unicamp 

Kennedy, Rev. Kyran /Brebeuf 

Kerr, K. Grant / United Church 

Kronick, Joseph / White Pine 

Labbett, Mr. & Mrs. E.C. /Oconto 

Lambshead, Alan / Kakeka 

Latimer, Mr. & Mrs. J. /Ki/coo 

Lawrenson.Maj. Margaret /Jackson's Point # 1 

Leach, Charles /lawah 

Lee, Miss Ethel / Mini-Yo-We 

Lee, Morley /Pioneer 

Leggatt, Mrs. W. /Onawaw 

Lowes, Mr. & Mrs. B. / Timberlane 

Luck-Baker, Robert /Blue Water 

Ludwig, Mr. & Mrs. Woody / Bil-O-Wood 

Lustig, Ben / Winnabagoe 

MacLean, D.W. / Voyageur 

Mamane, Gilbert /Montessori 

Mann, Matt /Chikopi 

Marshall, Capt. H.R. /Newport 

Mason, Morley /B'nai B'rith of Ottawa 

Matthews, Austin /Kitchikewana 

McClintock, Kenneth / Totoredaca 

McDowell, Rev. E.L. /G/enbrook 

McEwen, Doug /Wa-Sa-Ah-Bun 

McKee, Norman /Kitchener-Waterloo YMCA 

McLean, P.S. /Mazinaw 

MacLeod, Don / Columbus 

Miechowsky, Mrs. E. /Kennebec 

Moore, Mrs. Susan /Kelso 

Morawetz, Bruno /Ponacka 

Nash man, Mrs. A. /Wahanowin 

Nashman, Mr. & Mrs. H.B. / Wahanowin 

Nelson, Rev. C.R. / Crusaders 

Parks, Dr. W.R. /Endobanah 


Paterson, Mrs. M. / Kitchener-Water/oo YWCA 

Pearse, Mr. & Mrs. Jack / Tawingo 

Pearson, Miss Janet / Tapatoo 

Perkins, Wayne /Hamilton YMCA 

Petrushchak, John /Haliburton Hockey Haven 

Pickering, Ralph /Simpresca 

Platz, Sue /Adventure 

Prewitt, Mrs. Ann R. /Northway 

Pringle, Don / YMCA (Metro Toronto) 

Ratzin, Yitzhak /Sole/im 

Raymer, Mr. & Mrs. R. / Tanamakoon 

Rhamey, Mr. & Mrs. A.M. /Big Doe 

Richardson, Stanley A. /Samac 

Rogers, Miss Carolyne / United Church 

Rowland, Mrs. J.R. / Rollin' Acres 

Rushton, Mr. & Mrs. Paul / Trailfinder 

Russell, Mr. & Mrs. John /Circle R 

Say nor, John / Mini-Yo-We 

Schmitt, Peter / Ki-Way 

Seitz, Stan /Summerland 

Shackleton, W.F. /Rainbow Valley 

Simmons, John /Lake Joseph Holiday Centre 

Sinclair, Ian /United Church 

Small, John / Maple Leaf 

Smith, Mrs. D.T. / Artaban-Bolton 

Smith, Ken S. /Fair Glen 

Sneyd, Carl /Hamilton YMCA 

Sneyd, Dr. R.F. /Manitomono 

Snider, J.A. /Menesetung 

Spencer, Rev. Robt. / Iona 

Statten, Dr. Taylor / Taylor Statten 

Stovin, Mrs. Ruth / Marygrove 

Stewart, Miss Helen E. / Wahcahmie 

Stokinger, Herbert G. /Wabun 

Swan, Rev. Tom /Kakeka 

Swift, William /Pathfinder 

Sylvas, Miss Helen /Bonita Glen 

Tappenden, Richard /Adanac 

Thomason, Miss Ingrid /Podunk 

Thrall, Roy /Pathfinder 

Van Wagner, Peter F. /Nominingue 

Varey, J. Douglas /Moore/ands-Kawagama 

Walbank, Mr. & Mrs. Ron / Swa/lowdale 

Wakefield, Mr. & Mrs. L.K. /Pleasant Bay 

Walter, Miss D. / Ont. Camp Leadership Centre 

Watters, W. /Orr-Wa/ton 

Westfall, David / Kitchener-Waterloo YMCA 

Wheeler, L.T. /Everton Scout Forest 

Wilkinson, John H. /Keswick Youth 

Will, Allan /John Island 

Wilson, Stuart C. /Medeba 

Wilson, W.G. /Huronda 

Wipper, Mr. & Mrs. Kirk /Kanda/ore 

Wise, Mr. & Mrs. Ben / Manitou-Wabing 

Witner, Homer /Fraser Lake 

Wolfe, Gordon /Wabikon 

Wood, Richard M. /Minwassin 

Wrightson, Frank P. / Wigwasati 

Yard, Mr. & Mrs. W.E. /Ho/lyburn 

Zifkin, David /Shalom 


51 


ACCREDITED MEMBER CAMPS 

The resident and day camps in this section have passed the Desirable Camping Practices established by the Association. 


ADANAC 

90 boys 9 - 16 

Richard Tappenden 

2920 Huntington Road 

Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A. 44120 - (216) 

(216)991-2920 

Activities: Canoe trips; Skiing, Archery, 
Riflery; Nature 

Summer address: Gore Bay, Ontario 


ADVENTURE (Day Camp) 
(Cambridge VWCA) 

70 boys and girls 7 - 12 (co-ed) 

Sue Platz 

40 Thorne St., Cambridge, Ont. 

(519) 621-5300 
$30.00 per week 
4 sessions of 2 weeks each 
Activities: Canoeing, Red Cross Swimming; 
Campcrafts; Archery 


AK-O-MAK 

84 girls 9 - 16 

Rose Mary & Buck Dawson 
5811 N.E. 15th Avenue 
Fort Lauderdale, Florida 33308, U.S.A. 
(305) 772-7859 
$735 per period 
One 7-week period only 
Activities: Competitive Swimming; Com¬ 
petitive Athletics 

Summer address: Ahmic Harbour, Ontario 
(705) 387-3810 


ALLSAW 

72 boys 7 - 15, 1st 6 weeks; 72 boys & girls 
7-15 (co-ed) last 2 weeks 
Sam G. Hambly 

9 Calais Ave., Downsview, Ont. M3M IN3 
(416) 249-4517 
Carl Colbran 

33 Deloraine Dr., Bramalea, Ont. L6T 1T6 
(416)459-5137 

$165 per 2 weeks; $324.50 per 4 weeks; 
$484 per 6 weeks; $643.50 per 8 weeks 
Activities: Environment; Swim; Canoe; 
Orienteering; Fitness 

Summer address: R.R.2, Haliburton, Ont. 

(705) 457-1738 


AROWHON 

220 boys & girls 7-16 (co-ed) 

Eugene H. Kates 

147 Davenport Rd., Toronto, Ont. M5R 1J1 

(416)923-7176 

Fees quoted on request 

4 weeks; 8 weeks 

Activities: Swim; Sail; Canoe & Trips; 
Riding; Tennis 

Summer address: Located in Algonquin 
Park, Ontario 
(705) 633-5651 


ARROWHEAD (Day Camp) 

(Tent City Association) 

125 boys & girls 3-15 (co-ed) 

Ronald M. Fein 

200 Bayview Fairways Dr., Thornhill, Ont. 
(416) 889-9614 
$300 per season 
8 weeks 

Activities: Skiing; Sailing; Swimming; 

A & C; Drama 

Summer Address: Big Cedar Point P.O., Ont. 
(705) 456-2938 


ARTABAN-BOLTON 
(Anglican Church of Canada) 

88 boys or girls 8-15 

Mrs. Donald T. Smith 

801 — 15 Erskine Ave., Toronto 315, Ont. 

(416) 487-0578 

$50 per week; Pioneer $40 per 10 days 
Pioneer 10 days June; Boys July; girls Aug. 
Activities: Canoeing; Archery; Hikes; Swim; 
Sports; A & C 

Summer address: R.R.1, Bolton, Ont. 


BAVVIEW GLEN (Day Camp) 

600 boys and girls 2-11 

Mrs. L. Doreen Hopkins 

411 Lawrence Ave. E., Don Mills, Ont. 

(416) 449-7740 

$500 per 8 weeks; $270 per 4 weeks 
Activities: Swim; Nat.; Crafts; Music; Drama; 

Pottery; Overnight 
Summer address: As above. 


BIG DOE 

70 boys 8-15 

Mr. & Mrs. Aubrey M. Rhamey 
95 Toynbee Trail, Scarborough, Ontario 
(416) 261-4111 

$690 per 7 weeks; $395 per 4 weeks July; 
$300 per 3 weeks August; $230 per 2 weeks 
August 

Activities: Aquatics; Trip; Ride; Crafts; 

Sports; Shoot; Archery 
Summer address: Burks Falls, Ontario 
(705) 382-6540 


BIL-O-WOOD 

120 boys & girls 6-18 (co-ed) 

Mr. & Mrs. Woody Ludwig 

4509 Tacoma Blvd., Okemo, Michigan 48864 

(517) 349-4435 

$800 per 8 weeks; $425 per 4 weeks 
Activities: Athletics; Aquatics; Tripping; 

Riding; Crafts; Drama 
Summer address: Blind River, Ontario 


BLUE WATER 

(Blue Water Conference) 

125 boys & girls 8-18 (co-ed) 

Robert Luck-Baker 

141 Grand E., Box 625, Chatham, Ontario 
(519) 352-3470 
Roy M. Martin 

141 Grand E., Box 625, Chatham, Ontario 
(519) 352-3470 

Ages 8-12 - $49. 13 & up-$64.50 
Camp for each age group 6 days Sun. to Sat. 
Activities: Skiing; Horses; Pool; Canoeing; 
Athletics 

Summer address: R.R.3, Wallaceburg, Ont. 
(519)627-2732 


B'NAI B'RITH OF OTTAWA 

350 boys & girls 7-15 (co-ed) 

Mor/ey Mason 

34 Elmbank Cresc., Ottawa, Ont. K2G 3P6 
(613) 225-6787 

$650 per 7 weeks (non Ottawans); 

$550 per 7 weeks (Ottawans) 

7 weeks (two 3%-week periods) 

Activities: Skiing; Swim Pool; Gymnasium; 
Tennis, Riding 

Summer address: R.R.1, Quyon, P.Q. 

(819) 458-2660 


BOLTON 

(Family Services Association) 

392 boys & girls plus mothers with children 

C.R. Christensen 

22 Wellesley St. E., Toronto, Ont. M4Y 1G3 
(416)922-3126 

Fees — according to ability to pay 
Four 12-day periods 
Activities: Swimming; Drama; A & C; 
Landsports 

Summer address: Bolton, Ontario 
(416) 857-1531 

BONITA GLEN 

(Girl Guides of Metro Toronto) 

(Girl Guides only) 

160 girls 10-18 

Miss Helen E. Sylvas 
50 Merton St., Toronto, Ont. M4S 1 A3 
(416) 487-5281 ext. 44 
Summer address: Hawkestone, Ontario 
(705) 487-5483 


BREBEUF 

(Catholic Youth Organization) 

200 boys or 200 girls 7-14 

Rev. Kyran Kennedy 

20 Idlewood Ave., Hamilton, Ont. L8T 1V9 
(416) 388-2200 

$80 per 12 day period; $47 per 7 day period 
Boys: 2-12 day periods; 1-12 day period 
Girls: 1 — 12 day period; 1—7 day period 
Activities: Cam pouts; Canoeing; Archery; 
Swimming; Crafts 

Summer address: R.R.1, Rockwood, Ont. 

(519) 856-4671 


CALUMET 

160 boys & girls 6-16 (co-ed) 

Jim & Joan Cochlin 

Box 405, Markda/e, Ont. N0C 1 HO 

(519) 986-3323 

4 weeks July $360; 4 weeks August $320; 
2 week periods available 
Activities: Swim; Sail; Ski; Canoe; Shoot; 
Ride; Grow 

Summer address: R.R.2, Minden, Ont. 
K0M 2K0 
(705) 489-2298 


CHERITH AT WALKERTON 
(Pioneer Girls) 

85 girls 8-18 

Miss Jessica L. Breski 

144 Glenmore Rd., Toronto, Ont. M4L 3M4 
(416) 690-4446 
$40 per week 
Eight 6-day periods 

Activities: Riding; Swimming; Campcraft; 
Canoeing 

Summer address: Box 142, Walkerton, Ont. 
(519) 881-2448 


CHIKOPI 

80 boys 9-15 

Matt Mann 

3609 Dove/le Place, Lansing, Michigan 48917, 
U.S.A. 

(517) 484-4263 

$750 per 7 weeks; $475 per 4 weeks; 

$375 ,>er 3 weeks. 

Activities: Competitive Swimming — 
Competitive Athletics 
Summer address: R.R.2, Magnetawan, Ont. 
(705) 387-3811 


52 








CHIPPEWA (Day Camp) 

(Thunder Bay Parks & Rec'n Dept.) 

City Hall Annex, Thunder Bay, Ont. P7E 5V3 
(807) 623-2711 ext. 347 

CIRCLE R RANCH 

120 boys & girls 6-15 (co-ed) 

Mr. & Mrs. John Russell 

P.O. Box 85, Delaware, Ont. NOL 1EO 

(519) 471-3799 

Day Camp $50 per week; Residents $225 
per 2 weeks. 

Day Camp eight 1-week periods; 

Resident camp four 2-week periods. 

Activities: Western Riding; Canoeing; Crafts; 
Swimming 

Summer address: As above. 

COLUMBUS BOYS' CAMP 
(Knight of Columbus Toronto Council) 
(For under-privileged boys) 

240 boys 8-15 
Don McLeod, 

582 Sherbourne St., Toronto, Ont. M4X 1L4 
(416)922-2114 

Fee — According to ability to pay 
Five 10-day periods 

Activities: Tripping; Canoeing; Handicraft; 
Swimming 

Summer address: 4 Mile Point, Orillia, Ont. 
(705) 326-2433 

CONNEMARA 
24 boys 7-14; 24 girls 7-14 
Bruce F. F/eury 

52 Mid Pines Rd., Scarborough, Ont. MIG 2L8 
(416) 439-7654 
$165 per 2 week session 
Two sestfons/2 weeks; one session/1 week 
Activities: Environment; Swim; Canoe; Ski; 
Crafts: Pony Care 

Summer address: R.R.1, Kinmount, Ont. 

(705) 488-2938 

COUCHICHING 
(Anglican Church of Canada) 

130 boys or girls 7-15 
John R.A. Gu/lick 

2920 Bloor St. I/V., Toronto, Ont. M8X 1B6 

(416)239-3340 

Donald C. Bradbury 

64 Brentwood Rd. N., Toronto, Ont. 

(416) 239-7317 

$175 for 16 days (July); August fees on 
request. 

Two 16-day camps July; 1 month period Aug. 
August camp for sufferers of Cystic Fibrosis 
only. 

Activities: Swim; Canoe; Sail; Riding; A & C; 
Campcraft 

Summer address: Longford Mills, Ontario 
L0L 1K0 
(705) 325-3428 

CRUSADERS BIBLE CLUB CAMP 
(Bible Club Movement) 

110 boys & girls 7-15 (co-ed) 

Reverend C. R. Nelson 

P.O. Box 374, Oshawa, Ontario 

(416) 725-9378 

$30 weekly children's camp; $35 teen week 
Six 1 -week periods 

Activities: Swimming; Sports; Missions; 
Archery; Crafts 

Summer address: R.R.3, Omemee, Ontario 
(705) 799-5570 

CRYSTAL SPRINGS 

(Bible Club Movement of Canada) 

90 boys & girls 7-14 (co-ed) 

Miss Chloe Chamberlain 

Box 4052, Station "D ", Hamilton, Ont. 

(416) 634-9304 
$35 per week 
Seven 1-week periods 


Activities: Archery; Landsports; Swim; 
Canoeing; Cookouts 

Summer address: R.R.2, Brantford, Ont. 

(519) 484-2481 

DE LASALLE 

190 boys 6-15 

Brother Edgar 

5 Avonwick Gate, Don Mills, Ont. M3A 2M5 
(416) 444-7563 

$700 per 7 weeks; $460 per 4 weeks July; 
$250 per 2 weeks; $360 per 3 weeks August; 
$250 per 2 weeks August 
Activities: Swim; Boating; Skiing; Riding; 
Go-Karts; A&C 

Summer address: Jackson's Point, Ontario 
(416) 722-3231 

DORION BIBLE CAMP 
(Canadian Sunday School Mission) 

90 boys & girls 6-16 (co-ed) 

Andrew F. James 

Dor ion, Ontario POT 1K0 

857-2331 

ENDOBANAH (Boy Scouts) 

(Registered Cubs, Scouts & Girl Guides) 
100 boys or girls 7%-15 
Dr. W. R. Parks 

27 Manor Rd. E., Toronto, Ont. M4S 1P9 
(416)489-4195 

$160 per 4 weeks; $80 per 2 weeks 
Two 2-week periods boys July; Two 2-week 
periods girls August 

Activities: Swimming; Hiking; Canoeing; 
Sailing 

Summer address: Norland, Ontario 
(705) 454-3701 

ETOBICOKE PARKS & RECREATION 
(Day Camps) 

Mrs. V. Fraser 

Civic Centre, Etobicoke, Ont. M9C2Y2 
(416) 626-4161 ext. 162 

Claireville 

300 boys & girls 7-12 (co-ed) 

Adventure Camp 25 boys & girls 13-15 
$30 per period 
Four 2-week periods 
Activities: Campcraft; Archery;*Hiking; 
Nature; A&C 

Senicoke 

(For mentally retarded children 
in Etobicoke) 

35 boys & girls 5-18 
$30 per period 

Three 2-week periods; One 1-week period 
Activities: Campcraft; Swimming; Special 
Events; A&C 

Wyandot 

(For children with learning disabilities 
in Etobicoke) 

35 boys and girls 6-16 (co-ed) 

$30 per period 

Three 2-week periods 

Activities: Campcraft; Archery; visits; 

Swim; A&C 

EVERTON SCOUT FOREST 
(North Waterloo District Council — 

Boy Scouts) 

500 boys 8-18; 30 boys & girls 14-18 (co-ed) 
L.T. Wheeler 

844 Frederick St., Kitchener, Ont. N2B 2B8 
(519) 742-3072 
Fees variable 

Year round weeks or weekends 
Activities: Hiking; Pioneering; Canoeing; 
Swimming; Crafts 

Summer address: R.R.4, Rockwood, Ont. 

(519)856-9731 


FAIR GLEN 

(Associated Gospel Churches of 
Canada) 

85 boys & girls 8-15 

Ken S. Smith 

3628 Glenwood Place, Niagara Falls, Ont. 
(416)354-7248 

$47.50 per week or camp period 
Junior camp July; teen camp August 
Activities: Swimming; Water Ski; Canoe; 
Crafts; Sports 

Summer address: R.R.3, Beaverton, Ont. 

(705) 426-7231 

FOREST VALLEY (Day Camp) 

650 boys & girls 3^-15 (co-ed) 

Bert Fine 

60 Blue Forest Drive 
Downsview, Ont. M3H 4W5 
(416)633-6500 

$600 per 8 weeks; $320 per 4 weeks 
Activities: Swim; Ice Hockey; Music; Tennis; 

Nature; Landsports 
Summer address: As above. 

FRASER LAKE 

150 boys & girls 9-15 (co-ed) 

Homer D. Witner 
40 Shawford Crescent 
Scarborough, Ont. MIG 1V8 
(416)439-3104 
$50 per week 
4, 2 or 1-week periods 
Activities: Swimming; Canoeing; Ponies; 
Crafts; Outtrips 

Summer address: Fort Stewart, Ontario. 

FRONTIER RANCH 

124 boys or girls 7-16 

Lyle and Florence Jeffrey 

11 Mulvihill Crescent, Arnprior, Ontario 

(613) 623-2160 

$195 per 2 weeks 

One 2-week period boys & girls July; 

Three 2-week periods girls July & August. 
Activities: Riding; Swimming; Canoeing; 
Sailing; Crafts 

Summer address: R.R.2, White Lake, Ont. 

(613) 623-3577 

GAY VENTURE 

170 girls 7-16 

Mr. & Mrs. Brian Adamson 
94 Aldershot Crescent 
Wi/lowdale, Ont. M2P 1M1 
(416) 223-3286 

$900 per 8 weeks; $450 per 4 weeks; 

$240 per 2 weeks August. 

Activities: Swim; Ski; Sail; Canoe; Tripping; 

A & C; Drama 

Summer address: Haliburton, Ont. K0M ISO 
(705) 286-1799 

GENESEE 

60 boys & girls 7-14 (co-ed) 

John E. Dugan 

843 Palmerston Ave. Toronto, Ont. M6G 2R8 
(416)534-8461 

$100 per 2 weeks; $55 per week 
8 weeks 

Activities: Archery; Tripping; Swim; Music; 
Canoe; Crafts 

Summer address: Powassan, Ontario 

GESHER 

(Dror Zionist Youth Organization) 

150 boys & girls 8-17 (co-ed) 

Micha Gery 

272 Codsell Ave., Downsview, Ont. M3H 3X2 
(416) 633-2511 

$535 per 6 weeks; $300 per 3 weeks 
Activities: Skiing; Hiking; Discussions; 

Sports; Culture 

Summer address: R.R.1, Cloyne, Ontario 
(613) 336-2583 


53 


GLEN BERNARD 

180 girls 6-16 

Mr. & Mrs. John Gilchrist 

6a Wychwood Park, Toronto, Ont. M6G 2V5 

(416) 532-3403 

$950 per 8 weeks; $500 per 4 weeks 
Activities: Riding; Swimming; Tripping; 

Sailing 

Summer address: Sundridge, Ontario 
(705) 384-7062 

GLENBROOK (Day Camp) 

200 boys & girls 5-10 (co-ed) 

E.L. McDowell 

40 Shaw ford Crescent 

Scarborough, Ont. MIG 1V8 

(416) 439-3104 

$25 per week 

Nine 1-week periods 

Activities: Swimming; Ponies; Crafts; 

Hiking; Sports 
Summer address: As above. 

GLENHURON (The Salvation Army) 

100 boys & girls from 8 years (co-ed) 

Major D. Hollingworth 

Box 875, Station "B", London, Ont. N6A 4Z3 
(519) 433-6106 
$23 to $35 per period 
1-week to 10-days 

Activities: Canoeing; Climbing; Archery; 

Music 

Summer address: R.R.1, Bayfield, Ontario 
(519) 482-7232 

GUELPH KIWANIS CAMP BELWOOD 
(Ontario Ass'n for Mentally Retarded) 

90 boys, girls & adults from 7 years (co-ed) 

25 Grandriver, Paris, Ontario 
Adult Lodge $150 3 weeks; 

Teens' and children's camp $100 2 weeks 
Activities: Boating; Skating; Archery; 

Hiking; Cycling 

Summer address: Belwood, Ontario 
(519) 843-1240 

HALIBURTON HOCKEY HAVEN 
240 boys 7-17 
John Petrushchak 

27 Lesmar, Islington, Ont. M9B 2T9 
(416) 231-7426 
$150 per week 

Activities: Hockey; Skiing; Swim; Ball-hockey; 
Go-Carting 

Summer address: Box 508, Haliburton, Ont. 
(705) 457-2392 

HALIBURTON SCOUT RESERVE 
(Boy Scouts, Greater Toronto Region) 
(Boy Scouts only) 

600 boys 11-17 

K.J. Cooper 

1162 Bay St., Toronto, Ont. M5S 2B6 
(416) 925-3425 

Summer address: Box 450, Haliburton, Ont. 

HAMILTON YMCA 

79 James Street South, Hamilton, Ontario 
(416) 529-7102 

Chippewa (Day Camp) 

200 boys & girls 7-14 (co-ed) 

Carl Sneyd 
$32 per 2 weeks 

Activities: Aquatics; Crafts; Hiking; 

Canoeing; Riflery 
Summer address: As above. 

Wanakita 

150 boys & girls 8-16 (co-ed) 

Wayne Perkins 
$170 per period 

Four 15-day periods; one 1-week for families 
Activities: Swim; Canoe; Trip; Nature; 

Crafts; Leadership; Sail 
Summer address: R.R.2, Haliburton, Ont. 

(705) 457-2132 


HILLTOP 

72 boys & girls 5-14 (co-ed) 

Mrs. Ursula Keck 

P.O. Box 44, Dundas, Ont. L9H 5E7 
(416) 627-3783 

$ 520 per 8 weeks; $270 per 4 weeks; 
$140 per 2 weeks 

Activities: Swimming; Canoeing; Art; 

Campcraft; Riding 
Summer address: P.O. Bala, Ontario 
(705) 762-5295 


HOLLYBURN 
(including Winter Groups) 

98 boys & girls 7-14; plus year round groups 

Mr. & Mrs. W.E. (Ted) Yard 
Rosseau, Ont. POC 1J0 
(705) 732-4389 

Toronto Telephone (416) 261-1431 
July: 4 weeks $410; August: 3 weeks $310, 
2 weeks $205. 

July 4 weeks; August 3 weeks and 2 weeks 
Weekend group fees on request 
Activities: Swimming; Canoeing; Sailing; 

Tripping; Woodcraft 
Summer address: As above. 

HURONDA (Diabetic Ass'n of Ont.) 

80 diabetic boys & girls 8-15 (co-ed) 

Mr. K. Wade 

R.R. 1, Huntsville, Ont. POA 1K0 
(705) 789-4931 
$160 per 2 weeks 
Four 2-week periods 

Activities: Aquatics; Canoeing; Tripping; 
Riding; Sailing 

Summer address: R.R.1, Huntsville, Ont. 

(705) 789-7153 


IAWAH 

(Christian Youth Centre) 

85 boys 10-16; 85 girls 10-16; 80 boys & 
girls 7-9 (co-ed) 

Charles W. Leach 

260 Barrie Street, Kingston, Ont. K7L 3K7 
(613) 548-8110 

$90 per 2 weeks; $70 per 11 days 
Boys & girls camps 2 weeks; Jr. camp 11 
days; Family camp 14 days; Professional 
Renewal Weekend. 

Activities: Swim; Canoeing; Canoe Trips; 
Campcraft; Riding 

Summer address: Box 103, Westport, Ont. 
(613) 273-5621 


IONA 

(Toronto-Kingston Synod, Pres. Church) 

40 boys 9-17 or girls 9-17 or co-ed 9-17 

Rev. Robert Spencer 
Box 118, Arthur, Ontario 
(519) 848-3004 
$45 per 10 days 

10 day camps, 5-10 day canoe trips, 
June-August. 

Activities: Wilderness Camping; Canoe Trips; 
Bible Study 

Summer address: Bala, Ontario 

(705) 762-5129 

JACKSON'S POINT CAMP #1 
(The Salvation Army Family 
Services Dept.) 

108 boys & girls 8-12 

Major Margaret Lawrenson 
148 Jarvis St., Toronto, Ont. M5B 2B5 
(416) 366-9941 ext. 55 
$5 per period 
7 day periods 

Activities: Swimming; Crafts; Archery; 

Overnight Camping 
Summer address: The Salvation Army 
Camp #1, 

Jackson's Point, Ont. 


JOHN ISLAND (Sudbury YMCA) 

100 boys and/or girls 8-15 

Allan Will 

185 Elm St. E., Sudbury, Ont. P3B INI 

(705) 674-8315 

$135 per 2 week period 

1 boys and 1 co-ed July; 1 girls and family 

August. 

Activities: Wilderness; Canoeing; Outtrips; 
Swimming 

Summer address: Spanish, Ontario 

KADIMAH (Day Camp) 

(Hamilton Jewish Community Centre) 

175 boys & girls 4-14 (co-ed) 

Sam Brownstone 

57 Delaware Ave., Hamilton, Ont. L8M 1T6 
(416) 528-8577 

Members $165 per season; $90 July; 

$75 Aug; $25 weekly 
Non-Members $195 season; $110 July; 

$85 August; $30 weekly 
Activities: Canoeing; Crafts; Swimming; 
Landsports 


KAKEKA (Christian Service Brigade) 
125 boys 8-18 
Alan Lambshead 

1254 Plains Rd. E., Burlington, Ont. L7S 1W6 
(416) 634-1841 
Rev. Tom Swan 

1130 Queens Avenue, Apt. 401, Oakville, 

Ontario L6H 2B5 

$53 per week 

Six 1-week periods 

Activities: Swimming; Canoeing; Riflery; 
Archery; Outtrips 

Summer address: Box 436, Haliburton, 
Ontario K0M ISO 


KANDALORE (and Outpost Island) 

170 boys 6-16 (girls 8< boys at Outpost) 

Mr. & Mrs. Kirk Wipper 

10 Douglas Cresc., Toronto, Ont. M4W2E7 

(416) 924-4856 

Mr. & Mrs. Douglas Wipper 

c/o Mrs. Moffatt, R.R. 1 Lucerne, Quebec 

(819) 827-0988 

$819 per 8 weeks; $433 per 4 weeks; 

$259 per 2 weeks 

Activities: Trip; Swim; Sail; Marks.; 

Wildlife; Explore; A & C 
Summer address: R.R.2, Minden, 

Ontario K0M 2K0 
(705) 489-2419 or 
489-9907 


KATONIM (Day Camp) 

(Balfour Beach Association) 

150 boys & girls 3-14 (co-ed) 

John Ayers 

50-22 Bridletowne Circle, Agincourt, Ont. 
(416) 499-0206 

Fees variable between members and non¬ 
members. 

8, 4 and 2-week periods 
Activities: Swim; Canoe; Sail; Skiing; 
Trampoline, Tennis 

Summer address: Roches Point, Ontario 


KAWABI 

96 boys & girls 7-15 (co-ed) 

Mr. & Mrs. Bruce Harris 

92 Squire Baker's Lane, Markham, Ontario 

(416) 294-4451 

$395 per 4 weeks; $200 per 2 weeks; 

$750 per 8 weeks 

Activities: Swim; Sail; Canoe; Archery; Ski; 
Fence; Crafts 

Summer address: R.R.2, Minden, Ontario 
(705) 489-2510 


54 


KAWARTHA (Peterborough YMCA) 

72 boys & girls 8-15 (co-ed) 

475 George St. N., Peterborough, 

Ontario K9H 3R6 

(705) 742-5458 

$90 per 2-week period 

Three 2-week periods 

Activities: Canoeing; Sailing; Crafts; 

Archery; Nature 
Summer address: P.O. Box 250, 

Lakefield, Ontario 
(705) 652-7571 

KEEWAYDIN 

140 boys 10-19 

Ho ward P. Ch ivers 

75 East Whee/ock St., Hanover, N.H. 03755 

U.S.A. 

(603) 643-3903 
$975 per 6 weeks 

Activities: Canoe Trips; Wilderness Camping; 
Sports 

Summer address: Temagami, Ontario 

KELSO 

(Peel Region YMCA/YWCA) 

250 boys & girls 6-12 

Mrs. Susan Moore 

247 McMurchy Ave. S., Brampton, 

Ontario L6H 1Z4 
451-1400 

$40 per 2-week period 

Four 2-week periods 

Activities: Swimming; Hiking; Crafts; 

Nature Lore 

Summer address: As above. 

KESWICK YOUTH CAMP 
(Canadian Keswick Conference) 

250 boys & girls 8-16 

John H. Wilkinson 
75 Glen Cameron Road 
Thornhill, Ontario L3T 1N8 
889-8544 

General and specialized camps-$140-$190 
Two week sessions 

Activities: Riding; Sail; Skiing; Crafts; 
Tripping; Music 

Summer address: R.R.2, Port Carling, Ont. 
(705) 765-3923 

KIAWA (Girl Guides of Canada 
Hamilton Area) 

200 girls 10-15 

Mrs. C.E. For den 

375 James St. S., Hamilton, Ont. L8P 3B9 
$40 per 2 weeks 
3 periods of 2-weeks each 
Summer address: R.R.9, Dunnville, Ont. 

(416) 774-4531 

KILCOO 

200 boys 9-16 

Mr. & Mrs. John R. Latimer 
160 Eg!inton Ave. East, Suite 102A 
Toronto 12, Ontario 
(416) 486-5264 

Undetermined. $470-$490 per 4 weeks 
Activities: Swim; Skiing; Tripping; 

R if I ery; Sailing 

Summer address: Minden, Ontario 
(705) 286-1091 

KINTAIL (Presbyterian Church) 
(Hamilton-London Synod) 

80 boys or girls 8-17 

Rev. D.G. Cassidy 

3200 Woodland Ave., Windsor, Ont. N9E 1Z5 
969-8170 
$4 per day 
8 weeks 

KITCHENER-WATERLOO YMCA 

Norm McKee 

145 Lincoln Rd., Waterloo, Ont. N2J 2N8 
(519) 579-3500 




Kitchener Lions Youth Camp 

72 boys or girls 7-14 

David Westfall 

$70 per 2 weeks; $35 per 1 week (Jr. Camp) 
Two 2-week girls July; two 2-week boys Aug; 
One 1-week Jr. camp August 
Activities: Sailing; Canoeing; Swimming; 
Crafts 

Summer address: R.R.3, Fergus, Ontario 
(519) 843-1920 

Ki-wa-y (Kiwanis& YMCA) 

150 boys & girls 7-15 

Peter Schmitt 
$65 per 2 weeks 
Four 2-week periods 

Activities: Canoeing; Swimming; Rowing; 
Crafts; Sailing 

Thunderbird (Day Camp) 

(Optimists and YMCA) 

100 boys 7-14 

$15 per week 

Four 1-week periods August 
Activities: Crafts; Swimming; Hiking; 

Nature; Overnights 

Wabanaki 

120 boys or girls 6-16 

Doug Dent 

$150 per 2 weeks; $75 per 1 week (Jr. Camp) 
Two 2-wks July boys; Two 2-wks August girls 
Activities: Sailing; Canoeing; Tripping; 

Crafts; Drama 

Summer address: R.R.1, Huntsville, Ontario 
(705) 789-4841 

KITCHENER-WATERLOO YWCA 

84 Frederick St., Kitchener, Ont. N2H 2L7 
(519) 744-6507 

Clover (Day Camp) 

100 girls 5-12; 30 boys & girls 4-5 (co-ed) 

Youth Program Director 

$15 per week 

Four 1 -week periods 

Activities: Campcraft; Naturelore; Swim¬ 
ming; Boating; Crafts 

Summer address: R.R.1, Bamberg, Ontario 

Minwandum 

60 girls 8-15 

Youth Program Director 
$120 per 2 weeks 
Three 2-week periods 
Activities: Campcraft; Canoeing; Tripping; 
Leadership Training 

Summer address: R.R.1, Nobel, Ontario 


KITCHIKEWANA 
(Midland YMCA) 

170 boys or girls 9-15 plus family and school 
camping 

Austin Matthews 

YMCA Hu gel Ave. W., Midland, Ontario 
(705) 526-7828 
$135 per 2 weeks 

2 or 4 weeks; boys July; girls August 
Activities: Swim; Canoe Trip; Sail; Crafts 
Summer address: c/oP.O. Honey Harbour, 
Ontario 

KIWANIS (Kiwanis Club of Toronto) 
(Primarily for members of Kiwanis 
Boys & Girls Clubs) 

192 boys or girls 7-14 

Ghent Carroll 

101 Spruce St., Toronto, Ont. M5A 2J3 
(416)925-2243 
Fees on application 
Girls one 18-days; boys two 3-weeks 
Activities: Swimming; Canoeing; Tripping; 
Crafts 

Summer address: Box 430, Huntsville, Ont. 
(705) 635-2491 


KNOTTY KNOLL (Day Camp) 

(Nepean Township Parks & Rec'n) 

125 boys & girls 5-7 and 8-12 (co-ed) 

Dave Hartley 

3825 Richmond Rd., Ottawa, Ont. K2H 5C2 
(613) 829-1510 

$20 per 2 weeks 8-12; 3 two week sessions 
$12 per week 5-7; 2 one week sessions 
Activities: Play; Crafts; Fire Making; 

Folklore; Conservation 
Summer address: As above. 

KOHAI (Treatment Centre for 
Exceptional People) 

100 boys & girls 6-adult (co-ed) 

Doreen Crystal 

22 Glebe Rd. W., Toronto, Ont. M5Q 1C9 
(416) 489-3636 

1 weeks $924; 4 weeks $564; 3 weeks $439 
Specialty: 1 to 1 unit, $1425, Remedial Camp 
Summer address: R.R.2, Bracebridge, Ont. 

(705) 645-4881 

KURIOU (The Kuriou Foundation) 

(For children from low rental housing 
areas) 

Suite 01, 4800 Dundas Street West 

Islington, Ontario M9A 1B1 

(416)247-8217 

60 boys, 60 girls 8-19 

$12.50 per week 

Nine 1-week periods 

Activities: Boating; Swimming; Canoeing; 

Archery; Handcrafts 
Summer address: Moffat Lake, 

McKellar, Ontario 
(705) 389-2808 

KWASIND (Baptist Convention of 
Ontario & Quebec) 

90 boys & girls 9-17 (co-ed) 

Rev. R.D. Harmer 

217 St. George St., Toronto, Ont. M5R 2M2 
(416) 922-5163 
$5.50 per day 
Periods of varying lengths 
Activities: Bible Study; Crafts; Swimming; 
Boating 

Summer address: R.R.1, Utterson, Ontario 
(705) 769-3751 

LAKE JOSEPH HOLIDAY CENTRE 
(CNIB) (Must be Registered Blind) 

96 children & adults 6 and up (co-ed) 

John Simmons 

Rec'n Dept. 1929 Bay view Avenue 
Toronto, Ont. M4G 3Z3 
(416) 486-2513-4 

One 2-week Children; Ten 2-week Adult 
Activities: Sail; Ski; Swim; Riding; Evening 
activities 

Summer address: R.R.1, Mactier, Ontario 
(705) 375-2630 

MANITOMONO (Calvary Baptist Church) 

48 boys & girls 8-15 (co-ed) 

Dr. R.F. Sneyd and Ron Dewar 
72 Main Street, Toronto, Ontario 
(416) 691-4721 

$45 per week; special family rates 
Two 2-week periods 

Activities: Canoe; Swim; Archery: A & C; 
Special CIT Program 

Summer address: Honey Harbour, Ontario 

MANITOU-WABING SPORTS AND 

ARTS CENTRE 

375 boys & girls 12-17 (co-ed) 

Mr. & Mrs. Ben Wise 
821 Eg/inton Avenue West 
Toronto, Ontario M5N 1E6 
(416) 783-6168 

$1,155 per 7 weeks; $695 per 4 weeks; 

$515 per 3 weeks; Tennis Camp $200 per wk 
Activities: Music; Theatre; Dance; Tennis; 

Visual Arts 

Summer address: Parry Sound, Ontario 
(705) 389-2410 


55 



MAPLE LEAF 

(Canadian Council of War Veterans) 

John A. Small 

Robina Hall, 924A St. Clair Ave. i/Vest 
Toronto, Ontario M6C 1C6 
(416) 654-4234 

Summer address: R.R.1, Peterborough, Ont. 
(705) 657-8571 


MARYGROVE 

(Society of St. Vincent de Paul) 

(Apply to Society through a Vincentian) 

136 girls 8-13 

Mrs. Ruth Stovin 

311 Admiral Rd., Oshawa, Ont. L 1J 3A4 
(416) 723-4458 

Fee: According to ability to pay 
Five 10-day periods 
Activities: Bible; Canoe; Crafts; Swim; 
Theatrical Dance 

Summer address: R.R.2, Penetanguishene, 
Ontario 

(705) 549-8951 


MASSAD 

(Kosher; Promotion of Hebrew 
Culture & Language) 

150 boys & girls 6-16 (co-ed) 

Mrs. Rose E. Hersh 

Suite 201, 4140 Bathurst Street 

Downsview, Ontario M3H 3P2 

(416)633-7851 

$925 per 8 weeks; $550 per 4 weeks July; 

$450 per 4 weeks August 

Activities: Swim; Riding; Tennis; A & C; 

Sail; Ski; Sport; Drama 
Summer address: Torrance, Ontario 


MAZINAW 

(including Outdoor Ed'n Centre) 

70 boys 7-16 

J. Brian B/ackstock 

2385 Carling Ave., Apt. 1101, Ottawa, Ont. 
(613) 728-9259 
Paul S. McLean 

32 Whitney Ave., Toronto, Ont. 

(416)921-4501 

Mrs. Len Starmer 

88 Cast/egrove Ave., Don Mills, Ont. 

(416) 447-0255 
Nancy J. Cannon 
Cloyne, Ontario 

$675 per 6 weeks; $360 per 3 weeks 
School camp fees on request 
Activities: Canoe Tripping; Sailing; Aquatics; 
Woodcrafts 

Summer address: Cloyne, Ont. K0H 1K0 
(613) 336-2559 or 2579 

MEDEBA (Medeba Bible Camp Inc.) 

48 boys or girls from 8 years 
Stuart C. Wilson 

71 Glencameron Rd., Thornhill, Ont. L3T 1 Pd 
889-7144 

$50 weekly 

Girls July; boys August 
Activities: Tripping; Crafts; Swim; Bible 
study; Hiking 

Summer address: West Guilford, Ontario 
(705) 754-2444 


MENESETUNG 
(Goderich Summer School) 

175 boys & girls 9-16 (co-ed) 

J.A. Snider 

62 Essex Street, Goderich, Ontario 
(519) 524-6497 
$35 per week 

Activities: Swimming; Crafts; Archery; 
Watersports; Study 

Summer address: R.R.3, Goderich, Ontario 

56 


MI-A-KON-DA 

66 girls 8-15 

Mrs. N.L. Farrell & Mrs. E. Dobec 

310 Silverstone Drive No. 8 

Rex dale, Ontario M9V 3J4 

(416) 749-0178 

Mrs. E. Dobec: 489-9068 

$80 per week 

7 weeks 

Activities: Swim; Canoe; Sail; Tripping; 
Archery; Crafts 

Summer address: R.R.2 Dunchurch, 

Auld's Landing, Ont. 


MINI-YO-WE 

260 boys or girls 10-16 

John K. Say nor — Miss Ethel Lee 

1562A Dan forth Ave. Toronto, Ont. M4J 1N4 

(416) 469-2101 

Two 2-week periods boys July; two 2-week 
periods girls August 

Activities: Tripping; Crafts; Swimming; 

Bible Study 

Summer address: Port Sydney, Ont. 

MINWASSIN 
(Ottawa Boys' Club) 

122 boys 8-16 

Richard M. Wood 

412 Nepean St., Ottawa, Ont. KIR 5G7 
(613) 232-7316 
$84 per 2 weeks 
Three 2-week periods 
Activities: Tripping; Sailing; Canoeing; 
Swimming; Crafts 

Summer address: R.R.3, Eganville, Ont. 

(613) 628-2403 

MONTESSORI (French Day Camp) 
(Toronto Montessori Schools) 

150 boys & girls 4-10 

Gilbert A. Mamane 

8569 Bay view Ave., Thornhill, Ont. L3T 2A1 
(416) 889-6882 

$250 per 6 weeks; $135 per 3 weeks 
Activities: French; Swimming; A & C; 

Nature; Sports 
Summer address: As above 

MOORELANDS-KAWAGAMA 
Family Camp 

(Downtown Churchworkers' Assn.) 

150 boys & girls, infants to adults (co-ed) 

J. Douglas Varey 

145 Adelaide St. E., Toronto, Ont. M5C 1L7 
(416) 366-7797 
Fees on application 

Four 11-day periods; 1 week teen camp 
Activities: Swimming; Tripping; Small group 
camping 

Summer address: Russell Landing P.O. 

Dorset, Ontario 
(705) 766-2916 


MOSHAVA 

(Mizrachi-Hapoel Organization) 

300 boys & girls 8-16 (co-ed) 

Louis Fran ken 

86 Vaughan Rd., Toronto, Ont. M6C 2M1 

(416) 651-5501 

Fees available on request 

Two 4-week periods 

Activities: Woodwork; A & C; Israeli dancing; 
Waterfront 

Summer address: R.R.1, Ennismore, Ont. 

(705) 292-8143 


NEW MOON 

250 boys & girls 7-16 (co-ed) 

Al Goodman 

3185A Bathurst Street, Suite 102 
Toronto, Ontario M6A 2B2 
(416) 787-4461 

$985 per 8 weeks; $575 per 4 weeks July; 
$550 per 4 weeks August 


Activities: Canoeing; Sailing; Skiing; Riding; 
Tennis; A & C 

Summer address: Baysville, Ontario 
(705) 767-3381 

NEWPORT (The Salvation Army) 

80 boys & girls from 8 years (co-ed) 

Captain H.R. Marshall 
Box 427, Orillia, Ontario 
(705) 326-3271 
$25-$30 per period 
1 week to 10 days 

Activities: Archery; Swim; Canoeing; Music; 
Crafts; Bible 

NOMININGUE 
275 boys 7-15 
Peter Van Wagner 

482 Strathmore B/vd., Dorval, P. Q. H9S 2J4 
(514) 631-1501 
Peter G. Gilbert 

13 Maple Ave., Toronto, Ont. M4W 2T5 
(416)921-7384 

$450 per 4 weeks; $650 per 6 weeks; 

$815 per 8 weeks 

Activities: Canoe Trips; Sailing: Tennis; 

Woodwork; Skiing 
Summer address: Lac Nominingue, 

Quebec J0W 1R0 
(819) 278-3383 

NORTHLAND-B'NAI B'RITH 
(Jewish Camp Council of Toronto) 
1,132 boys & girls 6-16 (co-ed) 

John Bernstein 

750 Spadina Ave., Toronto, Ont. M5S 2J2 
(416)924-6211 

$225 for 1 period; $475 for 2 periods 
Three 20-day periods 

Activities: Complete Water, Land & Cultural 
Programs 

Summer address: Haliburton, Ontario 

NORTHWAY (and Wendigo) 

Northway: 50 girls 9-16 
Wendigo: 10 boys 14-16 

Ann R. Prewitt 

P.O. Box 1107, Huntsville, Ont. POA 1K0 
(705) 789-4671 

$725 per 7 weeks; $385 per half season 
Activities: Canoe Trips; Swim; Sail; Drama; 
Crafts 

Summer address: Algonquin Park, Ont. 

POA 1R0 

NORTH YORK DAY CAMPS 
(operating Co-ed Day Camps) 

(Borough of North York Parks & 

Rec'n Dept.) 

Ages 6-12 
Kathy Bird 

5000 Yonge St., Wi/lowda/e, Ontario 

(416) 225-4611 ext. 363 

$25 per period — Borough residents; 

$30 for non-residents 

Three 9-day periods 

Fees and structure subject to change 

Summer address: As above. 

OCONTO 

225 girls 7-17 

Mr. & Mrs. Clifford Labbett 
3 Pine Forest Road 
Toronto, Ontario M4N 3E6 
(416) 489-1032 

$475 per 4 weeks; $950 per 8 weeks 
Activities: Canoeing; Swimming; Riding; 
Sailing; Drama 

Summer address: Tichborne, Ontario 
(613) 375-6678 

ONAWAW 

70 girls 8-16 

Mrs. W.K. Leggatt 

149 Al/anhurst Dr., Islington, Ont. M9A 4K5 
(416) 249-2574 

$635 per 8 weeks; $325 per 4 weeks 


Activities: Water Activities; Tripping; Riding; 
Crafts 

Summer address: McKellar, Ont. POG ICO 
(705) 389-2698 

ONONDAGA 

140 boys & girls 5-16 

Nick Florian 

30 Delhi Ave., Toronto, Ont M5M 3B7 
(416) 486-9888 

$260 per 2 weeks; $385 per 3 weeks 
One 2-week period June; Three 3-week 
periods July and August 
Activities: Scuba; Tennis; Sailing; Kite 
Skiing; Music 

Summer address: Minden, Ont. KOM 2K0 
(705) 286-1030 

ONTARIO CAMP LEADERSHIP 
CENTRE (Bark Lake) 

144 boys and girls 16-17 (co-ed) 

Ontario Ministry of Community & Social 
Services, Sports and Recreation Bureau 
Miss Dorothy Walter 

400 University Ave., Toronto, Ont. M7A 1H9 
(416) 965-5665 
Two 3-week periods 

Activities: Leadership development programs 
Summer address: Irondale, Ontario 
(705) 447-2452 

ONTARIO GIRL GUIDE CAMP 
(Girl Guides of Can. — Ont. Council) 

320 girls 8-18 

Miss Kim Ball 

50 Merton St., Toronto, Ont. M4S 1 A3 
(416) 487-5281 
$30 per week 

Eight 1-week periods (younger campers); 

Four 2-week periods (older campers) 

Summer address: Sprucedale, Ontario 
(705) 685-7911 

ONTARIO SOCIETY FOR CRIPPLED 
CHILDREN 

Mrs. Shirley Hall 

Supervisor of Camping and Recreation 
350 Rumsey Rd., Toronto, Ont. M4G 1R8 
(416) 425-6220 

$15.50 per day (1974) — sliding fee scale 
available. 

Four 2-week periods 

Children with physical disabilities (excluding 
emotionally disturbed and mentally retarded 
without physical handicaps) 

Boys and Girls 7-18 

Activities: Swim; A & C; Drama; Campcrafts; 
Cookouts 

Blue Mountain Camp 

72 campers 

R.R.3, Collingwood, Ontario 
(705) 445-3941 

Lakewood Camp 

60 campers 

R.R.2, Wainfleet, Ontario 
(416) 899-3043 

Merrywood Camp 
72 campers 
R.R.5, Perth, Ontario 
(613) 267-1244 

Northwood Camp 

40 campers 

Swastika, Ontario 
(705) 642-3414 

Woodeden Camp 

64 campers 

R.R.3, London, Ontario 
(519) 471-6640 

OPEMIKON 

(Boy Scouts of Canada National Capital) 
(Boy Scouts only) 

300 boys 8-17 


Boy Scouts National Capital Region 
1345 Baseline Rd., Ottawa, Ont. K2C 3H5 
(613) 225-2770 
Activities: Boy Scout Camping 

ORR-WALTON SPORTS CAMP 

220 boys 7-15 

William W. Watters 
80 Richmond Street West, Suite 701 
Toronto, Ontario M5H 2B3 
(416) 364-6113 
$150 per week 

Four 2-week, One 1-week sessions; total 9 
Activities: Hockey; Tennis; Canoeing; 
Skiing; Sailing 

Summer address: Box 595, Orillia, Ontario 
(705) 325-2717 

OTTAWA YM-YWCA 

180 Argy/e Ave., Ottawa, Ont. K2P 1B7 
(613) 237-1320 

Davern 

90 girls 8-16 

Mrs. Libby Gaffney 
$60 per week 

One 18-day period; two 14-day periods; 
one 10-day period 

Activities: Swimming; Canoeing; Ecology; 
Crafts; Tripping 

Summer address: R.R.2, Maberly, Ontario 
(613) 273-5273 

Otonabee 

242 boys & girls 5-12 (co-ed) 

Two-week periods 

Activities: Swim; Canoe; A & C; Hiking; 
Archery 


OTTERDALE 

110 boys & girls 5-15 (co-ed) 

Mr. & Mrs. Carman F. Harrison 

25 Hilts Dr., Stoney Creek, Ont. L8G 3H5 
(416) 622-4726 

$210 per 2-weeks; $300 per 3-weeks; 

$590 per 6-weeks 

Activities: Swimming; Canoeing; Crafts; 

Riding; Sailing 

Summer address: Lombardy, Ont. K0G 1 L0 
(613) 283-1539 

OUAREAU 

100 girls 6-15 

Mrs. J. R. Allen 

26 Lome Ave., Lennoxville, P.Q. JOB 1Z0 
(819) 562-9641 

Mrs. A. Smith 

372 Kingswood Road, Toronto 265, Ont. 

(416) 691-3398 

July (4) $400; Aug. (4) $350; 8 weeks $695; 

2 weeks August Jrs. only $195 

Activities: Swim; Canoe; Sail; Tripping; Crafts 

Summer address: R.R. 1, St. Donat, 

P.Q. JOT 2C0 
(819)424-2662 

OWAISSA (Hamilton YWCA) 

75 girls 7-14 

Miss Christine Hamilton 

YWCA, 75 McNab St. S., Hamilton, Ontario 

$60 per 2 weeks 

Four 2-weeks 

Activities: Swimming; Crafts; Canoeing; Drama 
Summer address: R.R.2, Lowbanks, 

Dunnville, Ontario 
(416) 774-4444 

PATHFINDER 

110 boys 7-15 

William Swift & Roy Thrall 
402 Bonnie Brae Avenue 
Rochester, New York, 14618 
(716) 473-7690 

$825 per 7 weeks; $435 July period; 

$400 August period 

Activities: Canoe Tripping; Swimming; 

Boating; Skiing 

Summer address: Algonquin Park, Ontario 


PAUWATING (Day Camp) 

(Sault Ste. Marie Family YMCA) 

120 boys & girls 8-14 (co-ed) 

Douglas W. Downer 

235 MeNabb St., Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario 

(705) 949-3133 

$15 per 2 weeks 

Three 2-week periods 

Activities: Canoeing; Sailing; Campcraft; 

Nature; Archery 
Summer address: As above. 

(705) 253-1753 

PIONEER CAMPS (including Outdoor 
Education Centre) 

(Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship) 

Mor/ey Lee 

745 Mount Pleasant Road 

Toronto, Ontario M4S 2N5 

(416)487-3431 

$150 per 2 weeks — all camps 

Sept. - June Outdoor Ed'n fees on request 

Activities: Tripping; Riding; Sail; Farm; 

Music; Cycling 

Summer address: Box 229, Port Sydney, Ont. 
(705) 385-2386 

Boys' Camp 

190 boys 10-17 

Four 2-week periods 

Girls' Camp 

180 girls 11-16 

Four 2-week periods 

Junior Camp 

(School camping Sept. - June) 

120 boys & girls 7-10 (co-ed) 

Three 2-week periods 

PLEASANT BAY 

(Pleasant Bay Bible Conference) 

80 boys & girls 8-14 (co-ed) 

Mr. & Mrs. L.K. Wakefield 

2 Frey Cresc., Scarborough, Ont. MIR 2C4 

(416) 759-2086 

$33 per 6-day camp 

Eight 6-day camps 

Summer address: R.R.3, Consecon, Ontario 
(613) 399-5877 

PODUNK (Day Camp) 

(Borough of York Parks & Rec'n Dept.) 
(Borough of York residents only) 

60 boys & girls 7-12 (co-ed) 

Ingrid Thomason 
2700 Eglinton Avenue West 
Toronto, Ontario M6M 1V1 
(416) 653-2700 ext. 281 
$20 per 2-weeks 
Four 2-week periods 

Activities: Nature; Campcraft; A & C; Hiking; 
Swimming 

Summer address: As above. 

PONACKA 
136 boys 8-15 
Bruno Morawetz 

R.R.4, Peterborough, Ont. K9J 6X5 
(705) 745-9441 

1974 Fee $425 per 4 weeks; 

1975 Fee available May 
Two 4-week periods 

Activities: Riding; Tripping; Nature; Sailing; 
Crafts 

Summer address: Lake Baptiste, Bancroft, Ont. 

QUEEN ELIZABETH 
(London YM-YWCA) 

118 boys or girls 8-15 

William Chipperfield 

YM-YWCA, 433 Wellington Street 

London, Ontario N6A 3P7 

(519) 432-3706 

Fees available on request 

Boys July; girls August; families end August 

Activities: Sailing; Skiing; Skin Diving; 

Tripping 

Summer address: Honey Harbour, Ontario 


57 


QUIN-MO-LAC (United Church) 

170 boys, girls and families 
Mr. & Mrs. D.J. Genge 
R.R.l, Tweed, Ontario KOK 3JO 
(613) 473-2877 

Peterborough area representative 
Mrs. Marion Davis 

Locust Hill, R.R. 1, Ennismore, Ont. KOL 1T0 
Activities: Canoeing; Swimming; Campcraft; 
Crafts 

Summer address: As above. 

RAINBOW VALLEY RANCH 

70 boys & girls 5-12 (co-ed) 

W.F. Shackleton 
R.R.3, Caledon, Ontario 
(519) 927-5343 

$550 per 8 weeks; $150 per 2 weeks 
Activities: English & Western Riding; Swim¬ 
ming; Crafts 

Summer address: As above. 

RAMAH IN CANADA 

(Jewish Theological Society of Canada) 

350 boys & girls 10-16% (co-ed) 

Dr. Walter Ackerman 
3101 Bathurst Street, Suite 406 
Toronto, Ontario M6A 2A6 
(416) 789-2193 

$1075 per 8 weeks; $632.50 per 4 weeks July; 
$527.50 per 4 weeks August 
4 week periods; 10 and 11 year olds only 
Activities: Hebrew speaking; Kosher; 

Religious; Educational 
Summer address: Fish Hatchery Road 
Utterson, Ontario 
(705) 769-3601 

RICHILDACA (and Outdoor 
Education Centre) 

200 boys & girls 4-14 (co-ed day camp) 

32 boys or girls 8-14 (Resident Camp) 

Mr. & Mrs. W.J. Babcock 

193 Richmond St., Richmond Hill, Ontario 

(416) 884-2844 

$75 per 2 weeks, day camp; $150 per 2 weeks, 

resident camp 

Four 2-week periods 

Activities: Archery; Campcraft; Swim; 

Canoe; A & C; Drama 
Summer address: Kettleby, Ontario 
(416) 727-9941 

ROBIN HOOD (Day Camp) 

600 boys & girls 4-16 (co-ed) 

Larry Bell 

1804 Avenue Rd., Ste 1, Toronto 12, Ont. 
(416) 783-4951 
$178 per 4 weeks 

Activities: Swimming; Canoeing; A & C; 

Drama; Nature 
Summer address: As above. 

ROLLIN' ACRES 

80 boys & girls 5-12 (co-ed) 

Mrs. J. R. Rowland 

43 Fenn Avenue, Willowdale, Ontario 
(416) 447-7513 
$75 per week; $570 per season 
Activities: Riding; Canoeing; Overnights; 

Crafts 

Summer address: R.R.l, Fraserville, Ont. 

(705) 932-2107 

ROLLING ACRES RANCH 

80 girls 5-16 

Mr. & Mrs. Harold Hazell 

R.R.4, Durham, Ontario NOG 1RO 

(519) 369-3739 

$725 per 8 weeks; $380 per 4 weeks; 

$200 per 2 weeks 
Teen camp last 2 weeks June 
Activities: English & Western Riding; Swim; 
Riflery; Overnights 

Summer address: R.R.4, Durham, Ont. Dept.C 
(519) 369-3739 


SAMAC (Boy Scouts Canada) 

380 boys 7-12 

Stanley A. Richardson 
P.O. Box 293, Oshawa, Ontario 
(416) 725-4734 
$30 per 10 day period 
Activities: Camping skills; Swim; Boating; 
Pollution Education 

SCOTT MISSION FRESH AIR CAMP 
(Scott Mission) 

100 boys & girls 7-12 (co-ed) 20 mothers & 
infants 

Earl Ambrose 

502 Spadina Ave., Toronto, Ont. M5S 2H1 
(416) 924-4437 

Fees — according to ability to pay 
Four 11-day periods; two 7-day periods teens 
Activities: Swimming; Riding; Crafts; Bible 
Study; Tripping 

Summer address: R.R.3, Caledon, Ontario 
(416) 838-2713 

SHADOW LAKE 

(Metro Toronto Ass'n for Mentally 
Retarded) 

140 boys & girls 7 and up (co-ed) 

R. Vince Gillis & Bonnie Buchanan 
186 Beverley St., Toronto, Ont. M5T 1Z2 
(416)361-0773 
$60 per week 

Three 3-week periods (different age groups 
at different times) 

Activities: Tent Camping; Adult Program; 
Special Education 

Summer address: R.R.2, Stouffville, Ontario 
(416) 294-6917 

SHALOM (Canadian Young Judaea) 

180 boys & girls 8-13 (co-ed) 

David Zifkin 

788 Marlee Ave., Toronto, Ont. M6B 3K1 
(416) 783-6744 

$835 per two periods; $405 per one period 
Two 27-day periods 

Activities: Israeli folklore; A & C; Water- 
sports; Drama 

Summer address: Gravenhurst, Ontario 
(705) 687-4244 

SIDRABENE (St. Andrew's Latvian 
Congregation) (Members only) 

120 boys & girls 5-16 (co-ed) 

Rev. F. Cal it is 

383 Jarvis Street, Toronto, Ont. M5B 2C7 
(416)924-1563 
$40 per week 
1 to 7 weeks 

Activities: A & C; Sports; Swimming; Nature 
Summer address: R.R.6, Milton West, Ont. 
(416) 878-9016 

SOLELIM (Zionist Organization of 
Canada Charitable Funds) 

90 boys & girls 14-16 (co-ed) 

Yitzhak Ratzin 

588 Melrose Ave., Toronto, Ont. M5M 2A6 
(416) 781-5156 
$550 per 6 weeks 

Activities: Senior Leadership Training 
Summer address: R.R .2, Clearwater Lake, 
Sudbury, Ontario 
(705) 522-8817 

SUMMERLAND (Orillia YMCA) 

80 boys or girls 8-15 

Mr. Stan E. Seitz 

18 Peter Street North, Orillia, Ontario 
(705) 326-6141 
$50 per week 

4 weeks boys July; 4 weeks girls August 
Activities: Canoeing; Swimming; Tripping; 
Campcraft 

Summer address: Wash ago P.O., Ontario 


SWALLOWDALE 

90 boys & girls 5-15 (co-ed) 

Mr. & Mrs. Ron Walbank 
19 McArthur Street, Weston, Ontario 
(416) 241-6250 

$180 per 2 weeks; $350 per 4 weeks 
Activities: Competitive Swimming; Sailing; 
Riding; Canoeing 

Summer address: R.R.2, Huntsville, Ont. 

(705) 789-4891 

TAMAKWA 

200 boys & girls 7-15 (co-ed) 

Ronald B. Charfoos 
16000 West Nine Mile, Suite 304 
Southfield, Michigan 48075 
(313) 559-4240 

$510 per 4 week session; $960 for 8 weeks 
Activities: Tripping; Sailing; Skiing; Tennis; 
Sports; Arts 

Summer address: Huntsville, Ontario 
(705) 633-5561 

TANAMAKOON 

150 girls 9-16 

Mr. & Mrs. Hugh W. Butters 
30 Whitelock Cresc., Willowdale M2K 1 V8 
(416) 221-5238 

$950 per 8 weeks; $500 per 4 weeks 
Activities: Tripping; Sailing; Archery; 

Tennis; Crafts 

Summer address: Algonquin Park, Ontario 
(705) 633-5541 

TAWINGO (including year round 
Outdoor Centre) 

365 boys & girls 8-16 (co-ed) plus school 
camping 

Helen & Jack Pearse 

274 Shakespeare Dr., Waterloo, Ont. N2L 2T6 
(519) 885-4180 

Mary & George Simonett 

2396 Malone Cresc., Ottawa, Ont. K2C 1L5 

(613) 828-1342 

$700 per 8 weeks; $300 per 3 weeks; 

$200 per 2 weeks 

Year round Outdoor Ed'n Fees on request 
Activities: Nature; Tripping; Canoeing; 

Sailing; Campcraft 

Summer address: R.R.l, Huntsville, Ont. 

(705) 789-5612 

TAYLOR STATTEN CAMPS 

164 Eglinton Avenue East, Suite 402 
Toronto, Ontario M4P 1G4 
(416)486-6959 

$1070 Full Period; $585 per Half Period 
Two 27-day periods 

Activities: Riding; Tripping; Sailing; Drama; 
Crafts 

Summer address: Huntsville, Ontario 

Ahmek (including Algoma-Temagami 
Outpost) 

275 boys 8-16 

Dr. Taylor Statten — (705) 633-5573 

Wapomeo (including Algoma-Temagami 
Outpost) 

220 girls 8-16 

Dr. & Mrs. J. Harry Ebbs - (705) 633-5502 

TIMBERLANE 

250 boys & girls 8-16 (co-ed) 

Mr. & Mrs. Barry Lowes 

15 Wychwood Park, Toronto, Ont. M6G 2V5 

(416)651-5198 

$900 per 8 weeks; $525 per 4 weeks 
Activities: Tennis; Sailing; Skiing; Tripping; 
Drama; A & C 

Summer address: Haliburton, Ontario 
(705) 457-2813 

TOTOREDACA (Day Camp) 

(Mississauga Rec'n & Parks Dept.) 

520 boys 8< girls 7-14 (co-ed) 

Ken McClintock 

City of Mississauga Rec'n & Parks Dept. 

1 City Centre Drive, Mississauga, Ontario 
(416) 279-7600 


58 


$12.00 per week 

Eight 1*week periods 

Activities: Orienteering; Nature; Crafts; 

Hiking; Drama 
Summer address: As above. 

TOWHEE (Integra Foundation) 

(For children with Learning Disabilities) 

60 boys & girls 8-12 (co-ed) 

2637 YongeSt., Toronto, Ont. M4P 2J6 
(416) 486-8055 
One 6-week period 

Activities: This is an Academic Remedial Camp 
Summer address: Haliburton, Ontario 
(705) 457-2741 

TRAILFINDER 

125 boys & girls 6-16 (co-ed) 

Mr. & Mrs. Paul Rush ton 

38 Cliff side Dr., Scarborough, Ont. MIN 1L3 

(416) 261-3459 

$475 per 4 weeks; $240 per 2 weeks 
Four 2-week periods; Two 4-week periods; 

One 8-week period 

Activities: Riding; Tripping; Sailing; Skiing; 
Crafts 

Summer address: Kawagama Lake, Dorset, Ont. 
(705) 766-2405 

TRI-BELL (Tri-Bell Club) (Day Camp) 

70 boys & girls 3-13 (co-ed) 

David Feinstein 
1575 Steeles Avenue West 
Willowdale, Ontario M2R 2T3 
(416) 633-6010 
Fees upon request 

Two 4-week periods; Tennis three 3-wk periods 
Activities: Swimming; Drama; Dance; 

Tennis (10-13 years of age) 

Summer address: As above 

UNICAMP (Unitarian) 

60 boys & girls 8-14 (co-ed) 

Martin Keefe 

268 Aberdeen Ave., Hamilton, Ontario 

(416) 527-8441 

$50 per week 

Three 2-week periods 

Activities: Growth experience emphasizing 
Crafts & Outdoors 

Summer address: Honeywood, Ontario 

UNITED CHURCH OF CANADA 
(Toronto Conference) 

K. Grant Kerr 

210 - 18 Welsford Gardens 

Don Mills, Ontario M3 A 2P5 

(416)447-6144 

Big Canoe 

80 boys or girls 8-17 

Mrs. Ron Joyce 

3 Rockport Crescent, Richmond Hill, Ont. 
(416) 844-4959 

4 co-ed camps; 1 girls and 2 canoe camps 
Activities: Canoeing; Hiking; Crafts; Swim¬ 
ming; Outtripping 

Summer address: R.R.5, Bracebridge, Ont. 
(705) 645-4963 

Scugog 

mothers and children; youth 

Miss Caro/ynn Rogers 
Four 12-day periods 

Activities: Crafts; Swimming; Nursery; Games 
Summer address: R.R.1, Nestleton, Ontario 
(416) 986-4401 

Simpresca 

64 boys or girls 8-16 

Rev. Ralph Pickering 
Cold water, Ontario 
(705) 686-3647 

Activities: Swimming; Archery; Crafts; 

Nature Study; Sports 

Summer address: R.R.1, Penetang, Ontario 
(705) 526-5913 


Sparrow Lake 

130 boys and girls 9-15 (co-ed) 

Ian Sinclair — (416) 884-9559 
Four 2-week periods 
Activities: Canoeing; Tripping; Crafts; 
Swimming 

Summer address: Port Stanton, Ontario 
(705) 689-2568 

VOYAGEUR 

35 boys 9-12; 40 boys 13-18 

D.W. Mac Lean 

Box 996, Barrie, Ontario L4M 5E1 
(705) 726-6274 
Toronto Representative 
Mrs. G. Kaye 

120 St. Andrews Rd., Scarborough, Ontario 
(416)293-7883 

9-12 year olds — $460 per 6 weeks; $160 per 
2 weeks 

13-18 year olds — $175 per trip (2 weeks) 
Activities: Wilderness Canoe Tripping; Swim¬ 
ming; Sailing 

Summer address: Box 69, South River, Ont. 

WABIKON 

170 boys & girls 8-16 (co-ed) 

Gordon Wolfe 

572 Briar Hill Ave., Toronto, Ont. M5N 1M9 
(416) 483-5902 

$800 per 6 weeks; $450 per 3 weeks; 

$250 per 2 weeks 

Activities: Tripping; Sailing; Tennis; Crafts; 
Dramatics 

Summer address: Temagami, Ontario 
(705) 569-3795 

WABUN 

100 boys 10-18 

Herbert G. Stokinger 
132 Forbes Road, Milton, Mass., 02186 
(617) 698-8648 
S975 per 6 week season 
Activities: Wilderness Canoe Tripping; Sports 
Program in camp 

Summer address: Temagami, Ont. P0H 2H0 
Temagami Island 1 Ring 4 

WAHANOWIN 

300 boys & girls 5-12 (co-ed) 

Mr. & Mrs. Harold B. Nashman 
Mrs. Anne Nashman 
821 Eglinton Avenue West 
Toronto, Ontario M5N 1E6 
(416) 783-6168 

$995 per 8 weeks; $625 per 4 weeks July; 
$565 per 4 weeks August 
Activities: Waterfront; Fine Arts; Tennis; 
Riding; Sports 

Summer address: Longford Mills, Ontario 
(705) 325-2285 

WAHCAHMIE 

48 girls 7-16 

Miss Helen E. Stewart 

240 Eglinton Avenue East, Suite 300 

Toronto, Ontario M4P 1K8 

(416) 481-9784 

1974 Fees $425 per 4 weeks; 1975 Fees set 
in March 

Two to 7 week period 
Activities: Aquatics; Sailing; Nature; Oil 
Painting 

Summer address: R.R.1, Nobel, Ontario 
(705) 746-9596 

WALDEN 

300 boys & girls 7-16 (co-ed) 

Ted Cole 

1 Campbell Cresc., Willowdale, Ont. M2P 1 PI 
(416) 489-8903 

$925 per 8 weeks; $550 per 4 weeks 
Activities: Water & Land Sports; Fine Arts; 
Field Trips 

Summer address: R.R.2, Palmer Rapids, Ont. 
(613) 758-2365 


WANAPITEI 

90 boys & girls 7-18 (co-ed) 

Bruce W. Hodgins 

7 Engleburn PL, Peterborough, Ont. K9H 1C4 

(705) 743-3774 

Mr. & Mrs. Stanley Hodgins 

218 Bleams Road, Kitchener, Ontario 

(519) 745-4887 

Jamie Benidickson 

461 Slater Street, Ottawa, Ontario 

(613) 236-2535 

Jim Allman 

287 Armadale Street, Toronto, Ontario 
(416) 767-0900 

$780 per 8 weeks; $430 per 4 weeks; 

Juniors $100 per week 

Activities: Wilderness canoe trips; Swimming; 
Sailing 

Summer address: Temagami, Ontario 


WA-SA-AH-BUN 
(St. Catharines YMCA) 

100 boys or girls 9-16; also families 
Doug McEwen 

P.O. Box 310, St. Catharines, Ontario 
(416)685-4211 
Fees available on request 
2-week and 11-day periods for boys and girls 
Activities: Aquatics; Canoeing; Tripping; 
Crafts 

Summer address: Port Severn, Ontario 


WHITE BEAR 
85 boys and girls 8 and up 
Ron & Mickey Johnstone 
805 Valetta St., London, Ont. N6H 2Z2 
(519) 471-1147 
$375 per 3-week period 
Three weeks boys July; three weeks girls Aug. 
Activities: Island Camp Featuring Water 
Activities 

Summer address: Temagami, Ontario 


WHITE PINE 

400 boys & girls 8-16 (co-ed) 

Joseph Kronick 

306 Warren Rd., Toronto, Ont. M5P2M8 
(416)487-2341 

$1000 per 8 weeks; $600 per 4 weeks 
Activities: Aquatics; Tripping; Ride: 

Creative & Graphic Arts 
Summer address: Haliburton, Ontario 
(705) 457-2131 


WIGWASATI 

70 boys 9-16 

Glenn E. Harvison — Frank P. Wrightson 
c/o Waheca Inc. P.O. Box 743 
Silver Spring, Md., U.S.A. 20901 
(301) 421-9480 

$800 per 6 weeks; $575 per 4 weeks; 

$300 per 2 weeks 

Activities: Island camp with wilderness trip¬ 
ping; Aquatics 

Summer address: Temagami, Ont. P0H 2H0 
(705) 569-3795 


WINNEBAGOE 

250 boys & girls 8-16 (co-ed) 

Ben Lustig, John Danson 

888 Avenue Rd., Toronto, Ont. M5P 2K6 

(416)489-1558 

$950 per 8 weeks; $575 per July; $550 per 
August 

Activities: Riding; Tennis; Sailing; Skiing; 
Tripping 

Summer address: Huntsville, Ontario 
(705) 789-5892 


59 


VMCA CAMPING SERVICE 
(Metro Toronto) 

Tony Fry 

36 College Street, Toronto 2, Ontario 
(416)920 9210 

Beausoleil 
80 boys 9-15 
Malcolm Bury 

$175 for periods 1, 2 & 3; $160 for period 4 
Four 2-week periods 

Activities: Canoe Tripping; Woodcraft; Swim¬ 
ming; A & C 

Summer address: Honey Harbour, Ontario 

Norval 

110 boys & girls 6-10 (co-ed) 

Pat McGregor 

$60 for periods 1-7; $55 for periods 8 & 9 
$24 per weekend 
Nine 5-day periods & weekends 
Activities: Swimming; Crafts; Woodlore; 
Games 

Summer address: Norval, Ontario 
(416) 877 9013 

Pine Crest 
200 boys 8-17 

Don Pringle 

$300 for periods 1 & 2; $235 for period 3 
Two 20-day periods; One 17-day period 
Activities: Canoe Tripping; Sailing; Wood¬ 
craft; Aquatics 

Summer address: Torrance, Ontario 
(705) 762-3377 


Wangoma 

Available to Organizations and Families 
170 boys & girls — all ages 
Steve Rumm 
$10 per person per day 
Activities: Swimming; Canoeing; Outtrips; 
Hikes; Picnics 

Summer address: McArthur's Mills, Ontario 

YWCA CAMPING SERVICE 
(Metro Toronto) 

Mrs. Eleanor M. Kay 

3179 Dundas St. W., Toronto, Ont. M6P 2A5 
(416) 762 8169 

C.O.P.Y. Camp (Day Camp) 

150 boys & girls 6-12 (co-ed) 

Miss Judi Codd 

Sliding Scale - $15 - $25 per 2 weeks 

Four 2-week periods 

Activities: Swimming; Crafts; Games; 

Outings; C.l.T. Program 
Summer address: 3179 Dundas Street West 
Toronto, Ont. M6P 2A5 
(416) 762-8169 

Gypsy Glen (Day Camp) 

100 boys & girls 5-13 (co-ed) 

Miss Enid Gebbett 

$45 per 2 weeks 

Four 2-week periods 

Activities: Swimming; Crafts; Games; 

Outings; C.l.T. Program 
Summer address: 2532 Yonge Street 

Toronto, Ont. M4P 2H7 
(416) 487-7151 


Tapatoo 

80 girls 8-15 

Miss Janet Pearson 

$180 per 2 weeks, periods 1,2 & 3. $170 for 
Period 4 

Four 2-week periods 

Activities: Swimming; Canoeing; Tripping; 
Sailing 

Summer address: R.R.2, Parry Sound, Ont. 
(705) 378-2484 

TAPAWINGO 

140 girts 8-15 

Miss Ann Dunnigan 

$265 per 3 weeks; $170 per 2 weeks; 

$170 Canoe Trip 

Two 3-week periods; One 2-week period; 
2-week Canoe Trip 

Activities: Tripping; Swimming; Canoeing; 
Sailing 

Summer address: Parry Sound, Ontario 
(705) 746-5455 


CAMP ASSOCIATES 


The following camps have applied for membership in the Ontario Camping Association, but have not yet been visited by the 

Standards Committee for Accreditation. Winter addresses listed. 

MAPLE GLEN (Day Camp) 


ANISHNAWBE 

104 Winchester Ave. 

Toronto, Ontario 

BLUE HERON 

4200 Harris Hill Road 
Williamsville, New York 14221 
U.S.A. 


CAYUGA 

52 Wembley Road 
Toronto, Ontario M6C 2G2 
(416) 781-1762 

EKON 

3425 Bayview Avenue 
Willowdale, Ontario M2M 3S5 


51 Sawley Drive 
Willowdale, Ontario 
(416) 222-2929 

SAULINE 

(Latvian Lutheran Church) 

200 Balmoral Avenue 
Toronto 7, Ontario 
(416) 921-3327 


WHITBY Y CAMPS 

Whitby Y.M.C.A. 

Box 216, Whitby, Ontario 
(416) 668-6868 

WYOKA (Girl Guides of 
Canada) (White Oaks Area) 

3054 Mavis Road 
Mississauga, Ontario 
(416) 279-2790 


COMMERCIAL ASSOCIATES 

Commercial Associates Support Camping. The Ontario Camping Association asks you to support them. 


M. Black Wiping Products Ltd. 

Ill St. Regis Cres. South, Downsview, Ont. 
(416) 638-1335 

Disposable Cups, Plates, Washroom Supplies 

Canadian Can-Tex 

270 Oak St. W., P.O. Box 451, North Bay, Ont. 
(705) 474-7090 

Tents, Flys, Sleeping robes. Custom Mfg. 

Canadian Keyes Fibre Co. Ltd. 

30 Iron Street, Rexdale, Ont. 

(416) 249-2207 

Royal Chi net disposable plates & bowls 

Chestnut Canoe Company Limited 

P.O. Box 85, Fredericton, N.B. 

(506) 454-4479 

Canoes, Paddles, Boats, Sailing Equipment 

Crestex Limited 

68 Broadview Ave., Toronto, Ont. M4M 2E6 
(416) 461-0731 

Crested Camping Apparel, Award Crests 

FibreStrong Limited 

121 Cavan Street, Port Hope, Ont. 

885-6027 and 885-6250 

Ultra-light, epoxy 12'- 16'6"Portageur Canoes 


The Flintkote Co. of Can. Ltd. 

P.O. Box 160, Station N, 

Toronto, Ontario M8V 3T4 
(416) 255-1111 

Tennis court materials — colour surfacing 

Gibbons Foods Limited 

49 Advance Rd., Toronto, Ont. M8Z 2S6 
(416) 239-1421 

Jelly, Puddings, Cake Mixes, Beverages 

S. Gumpert Co. of Canada Ltd. 

31 Brock Ave., Toronto, Ont. M6K 2L1 
(416) 531-5758 

Harbutt's Plasticine (Canada) Ltd. 

720 Kipling Ave., Toronto, Ont. M8Z 5G5 
(416) 251-4436 

Plasticine, Modelling Materials, Press-on 
Lettering 

Hickeson Langs Supply Company 

500 Fenmar Drive, Weston, Ont. M9L 2V5 
(416) 789-4101 

Complete Food Suppliers to Camps 

Institution Food Supply (Eastern) Ltd. 

P.O. Box 242, Thornhill, Ontario 
(416) 636-6675 

Soup Bases, Juice Crystals and Desserts 


Kellogg Company of Canada Ltd. 

Suite 318, University House 

1315 Finch Ave. West, Downsview, Ont. 

(416) 635-7882 

Cereals. Crumbs, Pop Tarts, Eggo Waffles 

Kraft Foods Limited 

62 Bartor Rd., Weston, Ontario 
741-8450 

Complete Line Quality Food Service Products 

Lewiscraft 

284-286 King St. W., Toronto, Ont. M5V 1J3 
363-5206 

Art, Craft and Needlework Supplies 

Maitre D'Service Foods 

Division of General Foods 

344 Consumers Rd., Agincourt, Ontario 

491-6932 

Maxwell House Coffee, Jell-0 Desserts, Tang 

Marsan Foods Limited 

692 Richmond St. W., Toronto, Ont. M6J 1C6 
(416) 863-9966 

Complete Frozen Food Programme 

John F. Marshall & Company 

43 Victoria Street, Toronto 1, Ontario 
(416) 366-4810 
Hiking & Tripping Equipment 
Freeze Dry Foods 


60 


McKague Chemical Company Ltd. 

100 Midwest Rd., Scarborough, Ontario 
(416) 751-1121 
Kitchen & Laundry Chemicals 
Laundry Machinery 

McLaughlin Foods Ltd. 

Box 69, Alliston, Ontario 

(705) 435-6264 and (416) 368-9996 

Miller Label & Ticket Ltd. 

809 William Street, Room 402 
Montreal, Quebec H3C 1N8 
(514) 861-1924 

Name Tapes — printed and washable 

Muskoka Laundry & Dry Cleaners Ltd. 

75 Wellington Street, Bracebridge, Ont. 

(705) 645-2229 

Servicing Children's Summer Camps 

National Grocers Company Limited 

Wholesale Food Distributors 
92 Barrie Road, Orillia, Ontario 
(705) 326-3591 

Complete Food Service To The Camp Trade 

P.J.B. Marketing & Sales Ltd. 

269 East Ave., West Hill P.O., Ontario 
(416) 364-7455 
Food Representatives 


The Quaker Oats Company of Canada 
Limited 

5385 Yonge St., Willowdale, Ont. M2N 5R7 
(416) 222-6568 

Cereal, Burry Biscuits, Frozen Waffles, Mixes 

Salada Foods Ltd. 

Ste 318, 1315 Finch Ave. West 
Downsview, Ontario M3J 2G6 
(416) 636-9293 

Distributors of Food Service Products 

Sanex PC Ltd. 

6490 Bombardier, Montreal, P.Q. 

(514) 324-4031 

Foggers, Insecticides, Automatic Insect Control 

Sangsara Ltd. 

682 George Street North 
Peterborough, Ontario K9H 3S9 
(705) 745-3674 

Whole Natural & Organic Foods 

School Uniforms (Canada) Limited 

5200 Dixie Road, Mississauga, Ontario 

(416) 625-9161 

Athletic Clothing Specialists 

Scotts Perma Storage Food 

60 York Street, Aylmer, Ont. N5H 2G9 
(519) 733-2462 

Bulk quick dry foods for camping 


Septo Clean Company 

46 Scugog Street, Bowmanville, Ontario 
623-4145 

Septic Tanks & Privy Chemicals; Odourless 

Stafford Foods Limited 

37 Hanna Ave., Toronto, Ont. M6K 1X1 
366-8021 

A complete range of Food Products 

Talens C.A.C. Ltd. 

2100 Girouard Ave., Montreal 260, P.Q. 
Toronto 782-4744 
Art and craft supplies 

Tandy Leather Co. Ltd. 

Box 13000, Barrie, Ontario 
Free catalogues 
Leather & Craft Supplies 

Signet Food Products Inc. 

5170 Dixie Rd., P.O. Box 1067, Station "B" 
Mississauga, Ontario L4Y 3W4 
(416) 625-9421 

Total food suppliers for summer camps 

Voyageur Canoe Company 

King Street, Millbrook, Ontario 
(705) 932-2131 

12 ft. to 25 ft. Canoes, Paddles, Lifevests 


The use of this Directory for commercial purposes without the written consent of the Ontario Camping Association 

is prohibited. 

The information contained in this Directory is supplied by the member camps and is correct to the best of our knowledge at 
the time of publication; however, the Ontario Camping Association does not accept responsibility for any errors, omissions 

or individual camp changes. 


I'A/zociation dc/ Comp/ du Quebec 

faction froncoi/J 

CONSEIL D'ADMINISTRATION CONSEIL PROVINCIAL 


SECRETARIATS 

MONTREAL QUEBEC 


Mme Micheline S. Laverdure 
952, rue Cherrier 
Montreal, Quebec H2L 1H7 
(514-527-3511) 

President: 

M. Robert Maisonneuve 
Secretaire: 

Pere Raymond Mailhiot 

A dm inistra teurs: 

M. Maurice Bessette 
M. Bernard C. Miron 
M. Gilles Lapointe 
Pere Carmel Lerma 

M. Gabriel 

President sortant: 

M. Rosaire Corbin 


Mile Denise Nobert 
8620 Deslongchamps 
Quebec GIG 4H8 
(418-623-0819) 

Vice-President: 

Pere P. Belanger (Quebec) 
Pere Bob Gagne (Estrie) 
M. Georges Robitaille 

M. Jean-Pierre Joly 
M. Michel Proulx 
Pere Bob Gagne 
M. Jean-Claude Chartrand 
Goudreau 


SECRETARIAT 

952, rue Cherrier 
Montreal, Quebec H2L 1H7 
(514-527-3511) 


Membres Honoraires: 

H. Capt. Abbe Raoul Cloutier M. Jules Leavitt, Cr. 


President: 

M. Rosaire Corbin 


Vice-Presidents: 

Mme Val Willis 
M. R. Maisonneuve 


Tresorier: 

M. Peter Van Wagner 

Secretaire: 

Pere Paul Belanger 


Preside n t An terieur 
M. Robert Lazanik 

A dm inistra teurs: 

M. Gilles Lapointe M. Bernard Miron 

Pere Bob Gagne M. Zave Ettinger 

Mme Barbara Patterson 


Presidents Anterieurs: 

M. Lionel Perras M. Tony Shorgan 

Mme N.D. Demetelin Mme Alta R. Kahn 

H. Capt. Abbe Cloutier 


61 



ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU QUEBEC 

L'ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU QUEBEC INC. - QUEBEC CAMPING ASSOCIATION INC., un organisme bilingue a but 
non lucratif, a ete incorpore dans la Province de Quebec, le 23 janvier, 1961. La Section Anglaise a debute en 1937, et a recu 
sa charte federale en 1949. El I e est affiliee a L' ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU CANADA. 

Notre association est une organisation benevole, composee de Proprietaires, Directeurs, Responsables, Minoteurs de Camp, 
Fournisseurs Commercieux et Personnes interessees qui oeuvrent ensemble afin de promouvoir et de maintenir un niveau 
eleve des normes concernant tous les aspects des operations des camps de nos membres au Quebec. Afin de permettre a nos 
membres de progresser et de se tenir au courant des nouvelles experiences pertinentes aux colonies de vacances, I'association 
met sur pied un programme d'etude tout au cours de I'annee. Les problemes communs y sont etudies, et Ton tente de trouver 
des solutions communes. Le but ultime de tous ces efforts est d'assurer I'excellence des sejours de camping de nos jeunes 
Quebecois et Quebecoises. On reconnait de plus en plus, que I'experience de camping est educative, autant que recreative. 
Elle est peut-etre I'environnement ideal pour le developpement socio-emotionnel de nos jeunes. 

Ce bottin est destine principalement aux parents qui s'interessent a ce que leurs enfants passent un sejour dans une colonie de 
vacances. Tous les camps ci-inclus ont ete visites et repondent aux normes de I'A.C.Q. — Q.C.A. Cependant I'association 
n'exerce aucune surveillance sur les camps. Pour cette raison, et parce que seuls les parents connaissent les desirs et les besoins 
particuliers de leurs enfants, I'association ne peut s'engager a recommander un camp en particulier. 

Les renseignements qui se trouvent dans ce bottin ont ete fournis par nos camps membres accredites, et au moment de la pub¬ 
lication tout etait parfait. Cependant, L'A.C.Q. — Q.C.A. n'endosse aucune responsabilite pour les erreurs, les omissions ou 
les changements qui pourraient se produire. 

Pour de plus amples renseignements, veuillez communiquer directement avec les directeurs ou les proprietaires eux-memes. 

II est defendu d'utiliser ce bottin pour des fins commerciales sans la permission ecrite de L'A.C.Q. — Q.C.A. 


LISTE DES CAMPS MEMBRES ACCREDITES 


Garpons 
Beausejour 
Bel Air 
Boisjoly 

Colonie de Vacances Plein Champ 

Keno 

Le Manoir 

Les Gais Lurons 

Les Sommets 

Mariste 

Oasis Notre-Dame 

Olier 

St-Donat 

St-Michel 

Savio 

Val Heureux 
Filles 

Cap a I'Orignai 
Colonie St-Gabriel 
De la Decouverte 
Michel Inc. 

Notre-Dame de la Joie 
Oolahwan 
Ste-Jeanne d'Arc 


Garpons et Filles 

Base de Plein Air Jean Jeune 

Base de Plein Air les Pins 

Base de Plein Mont St-Jovite 

Beaumont 

Boute-en-T rain 

Cap a I'Orignai 

Claret du Lac Elgin 

Clocher du Manoir 

Coeur Joie 

Colonie de Vacances Plein Champ 
De la Salle 
Des Lutins 

Domaine de la Fraternite 
Domaine de la Jeunesse 
Edphy 

Elena Guerra 

Escale 

Jeune Air 

Jouvence 

Katimavik 

L'Assomption 

Le Ranch Massawippi 

Marie de Nazareth 

Mere M.L. Clarac 


Minogami 

Notre-Dame de Montreal 
Notre-Dame des Petits 
Notre-Dame du Lac Sept-lles 
Pharnasol 

Richelieu Quatre-Saisons 
Richelieu St-Clement 
St-Alexis des Monts 
St-Franpois (lie d'Orleans) 
St-Francois de Black Lake 
St-Stanislas (Canton des Jeunes) 
St-Vincent de Paul en Haut 
Sante Bruchesi 
Trois Saumons 
Vivaldi 
Vive la Joie 

Camps de jour 

Colonie de Vacances des Greves 
Colonie de Vacances de Maizerets 

Camps familiaux 
Bleu et Blanc 

Carrefour des Citoyens de I'Avenir 
Domaine Notre-Dame Inc. 


CAMPS SPECIALISES POUR ENFANTS 


Carowanis — Diabetiques 
Centre de Vacances de ('Association de 
Paralysis Cerebrale 

Centre de Plein Air la Caleche — Jeunes perturbes 
socio-emotifs 

Centre Marronniers Inc. — Jeunes adu/tes deficients 
mentaux educab/es 
Domaine des Cimes 


Domaine des Pres 

Enfants Infirmes — Handicapes phys.—Cardiaques— 
Fibrose kistique 
Gatineau — Deficients mentaux 
Massawippi — Enfants infirmes et enfants sourds 
Richelieu — Pour les enfants de /'Institution 
Terre des Jeunes (Ste-Julienne) — Mixite 
Villa Notre-Dame de Fatima 


Allaire, Mile Michele 
183 rue Racine 
Loretteville, Quebec 
Aubry, Jacques 

84 Alain, Victoriaville 


DELEGUES& MEMBRES INDIVIDUELS 

Authier, Richard Bastien, Alexandre 

Seminaire Salesien 1044 avenue du Parc 

Rue Don Bosco, Sherbrooke Quebec 6 

J1L1E5 Beauchemin, gilles 

60 ouest rue Eveche 
Rimouski, Quebec 


62 


Bedard, Fr. Andre 

1161 Brault, Sherbrooke 
Belanger, Sr. Jeanne 

C.P. 98, Maison Nazareth 
Black Lake, Cte Megantic 
Belanger, Michel 
532 Rue du Roi est 
Quebec 2 
Bergeron, Marc 

2613 boul. Liegeois, Quebec 
Bertrand, Mario 

A.Q.T.L., 3100 rue St-Donat 
Montreal 

Bouthillier, Robert 
1332 Laight, Sillery 
Quebec G1S 3Z6 
Boyer, Fr. Jacques 
330 Montee Lesage 
Rosemere 

Cadeddu, Sr. Helvetia 
3530 est, boul. Gouin 
Montreal H1H 1B7 
Chabot, Rene 

6862 Hurteau, Montreal 
Chalifoux, Maurice 
1705 Parc-Chesnaye 
Quebec 6 

Charlebois, Bernard 
718 rue Victoria 
Westmount 215, Montreal 
Charron, Michel 

1931 ouest rue Sherbrooke 
Montreal 
Cloutier, Raoul 

11 est rue Cremazie 
Quebec G1R 1Y1 
Corbin, Rosaire 

10,300 Bois de Boulogne 
No: 111, Montreal H4N 1L1 
Croteau, Laurent 

6 rue Camire, Victoriaville 
Danis, Robert 

7150 Marie-Victoria, Montreal 
Desautels, Denis 
571 Duff Crescent 
Ottawa, Ontario 
Dion, Mile France 
1217 Ernest Lavigne 
Sillery, Quebec GIT 2K7 
Drouin, Abbe Georges-Henri 

1 Cote de la Fabrique 
Quebec G1 R 4R7 

Favreau, Luc 

7150 Marie-Victorin 
Montreal H1G 2J5 
Flamand, Mme Jeannine 
5220 Boul. Grand 
Montreal H3X 3S4 
Forget, Fr. Roger 

881, Rang Camp Notre-Dame 
St-Liguori, Cte Montcalm 
J0K 2X0 
Fortier, Jacques 

2 Jardines Merici, app: 201 
Quebec G1S 4M4 

Gaudreau, Gerry 
1931 o. rue Sherbrooke 
Montreal H3H 1 E3 
Gilbert, Mme Jeanne 
322 rue Marquis 
Quebec GIP 3B7 


Gosselin, Laurent 
242 Georges Vanier 
Pont Viau, Laval, Quebec 
Granger, Denis Ptre 

270 boul. I'Ange Gardien 
L'Assomption 
Harel, M. & Mme Robert 
3575 boul. Tracy 
St-Vincent de Paul 
Laval H7E 1M4 
Houle, Andre 

1721 Crawford Bridge, Verdun 
Jette, Robert 

285 A, 4e Rue, Richelieu 
Cte Chambly J3L 4A1 
Lafleur, Sr. Irene 
2520 Lionel Groulx 
Montreal H3J 1J8 
Lamarre, Mme Andree 
C.P. 457, Lacolle 
Landry, Lucien 

839 rue Sherbrooke est 
app: 9, Montreal 
Landry, Roger 

2315 Chemin St-Louis 
Sillery, Quebec GIT 1 R5 
Langlois, Jean-Marie SV 
2555 Chemin Ste-Foy 
Quebec G1V 1T8 
Lantagne, Luc 

Seminaire Salesien 
Rue Don Bosco, Sherbrooke 
J1L 1E5 
Lanthier, Gilles 
5557 — 8e Avenue 
Rosemont, Montreal 
Lavallee, Robert 
2451 Frontenac 
Varennes J0L 2P0 
Lavoie, Mile Jacqueline 

1455 avenue Jacques Lemaistre 
Montreal H2M 2C3 
Leblanc, Jean-Yves 

2315 Chemin St-Louis 
Sillery, Quebec GIT 1 R5 
Lefebvre, Richard 
58 Academie 
Sherbrooke J1H 1M7 
Mace, Grant 

394 Des Oblats, app:2 
Ville LaSalle 
Malouin, Raoul 

11470 Pelletier, app: 25 
Montreal-Nord 
Marchand, Sr. Noella 
C.P. 366 

Foyer de Black Lake 
Cte Megantic 

Mercure, M. & Mme Pierre 
83, 20e Avenue, Blainville 
Minto, Henry 

3500 Decarie, Montreal 
H4A3J5 
Miron, Bernard 

360 rue St-Jean, Longueuil 
Morneau, Roland 

540 est, 47e Rue, Quebec 7 
Nicolai, Sr. Umberta 
2800 Bossuet, Montreal 
H1N 2S6 


Nobert, Mile Denise 
8620 Des Longchamps 
Charlesbourg GIG 4H8 
Paiement, Franpois 

6645 — lOe Avenue est 
Charlesbourg, Quebec G1H 4B9 
Parent, Gilles 

C.P. 30, Lac Carre 
Terrebonne JOT 1 JO 
Payette, Come 

7451 Malherbes, Brossard 
Pelletier, Denys 

62 Wickstead, Montreal 304 
Pelletier, Normand 

742 d'Alquier, Ste-Foy 
Quebec 10 
Pelletier, Eudore 

C.P. 231, Sherbrooke 
Perras, Lionel 

873, Mgr Grandin, no: 6 
Ste-Foy, Quebec 
Primeau, Andre 

6195 Des Groseillers 
Ville d'Anjou 
Poupart, Mme Irene 
3421 Cartier, Montreal 
Poussard, Rosaire 

Seminaire St-Augustin 
Pavilion Colin, Cap-Rouge 
GOA 1 K0 

Quenneville, Ronald 
Seminaire Salesien 
Rue Don Bosco, Sherbrooke 
J1L 1E5 

Robitaille, Georges 

431 Madeleine, St-Jerome 
Rousseau, Rene 
125 Tour du Lac 
Ste-Agathe des Monts 
Roy, Francois 
Pointe du Lac 
Cte St-Maurice G0X 1Z0 
Roy, Gilbert 

4450 rue St-Hubert, 

Montreal H2J 2W9 
St-Germain, Charles 

1931 o. rue Sherbrooke 
Montreal H3H 1E3 
St-Hilaire, Gilles 
858 Laviolette 
T rois-Rivieres 
Seguin, Mile Jacinthe 
10540 De La Roche 
Montreal 
Shorgan, Tony 

1455 rue Rochon, Montreal 381 
Soucy, Roger 

312 rue Lataille, Beloeil 
Talarico, Gilles 

7085 Viau, no: 208, Montreal 
Thompson, Donald 

College Claretain, Victoriaville 
White, Mrs. Carla 

1355 Dorchester ouest, Montreal 




_i 

UJ 

ID 

oc 







Z 

'UJ 

Z DC^ 






Su, 

DC 

o «- £ 



PERIODES 



DC > 
UJ < 
CL CL 

u-d 

Lj -Q 
>UJ 5 i- 

5 ACTIVITES 


FRAIS PENSION 

SECRETARIAT (HIVER) 

CAMP (ETE) 



PRINCIPALES 

ACCUEIL 

(Frais Inscription) 

BASE DE PLEIN AIR JEAN JEUNE INC. (1951) 







M. Bernard Miron 

Vendee 

X 

X 

A 

Voile 

70 gargons 7-15 

21 juin-5 juil. 

M. Maurice Gendron 

Cte Papineau 




Canoe-Kayak 

70 filles 7-15 

5 juil.-l9 juil. 

360 rue St-Jean 

(514-687-2683) 




Natation 


21 juil.-4 aout 

Longueuil 





Sciences naturelles 


4 aoGt-18 aout 

(514-677-5244) 





Hebertisme 


$35.00/Semaine 








($10.00) 

BASE DE PLEIN AIR LES PINS (1972) 







M. Jean-Claude Divol 

C.P. 515 

X 

X 

A 

Voile/Canot 

50 gargons 6-16 

22 juin-12 juil. 

M. Daniel Cordier 

St-Jovite 




Equitation 

50 filles 6-16 

12 juil- 1 aout 

C.P. 515 

(819-425-2461) 




Ski Nautique 


1 aout-21 aout 

St-Jovite 





Natation 


$70.00/Semaine 

(819-425-2461) 





Escalade 


($20.00) 

BASE DE PLEIN AIR MONT ST-JOVITE (1970) 







M. Daniel Cordier 

C.P. 515 

X 

X 

A 

Voile 

40 gargons 6-16 

22 juin-12 juil. 

M. Jean-Claude Divol 

St-Jovite 




Canot 

40 filles 6-16 

12 juil.- 1 aout 

C.P. 515 

(819-425-2461) 




Escalade 


1 aout-21 aout 

St-Jovite 





Cyclo-Tourisme 


$70.00/Semaine 

(819-425-2461) 





Tir a Pare 


($20.00) 

BEAUMONT (1947) 

Mme Jean-Louis Arbique 

Val David 



A 

Tir a Pare 

30 gargons 7-12 

$45.00/Semaine 

M. Jean-Louis Arbique 

(819-322-3233) 




Equitation (suppl.) 

35 filles 7-12 

($5.00) 

10,332 J.J. Gagnier 





Athletisme 



Montreal, H2B 3A2 





Ballon volant 



(514-388-6841) 





Natation 



BEAUSEJOUR (1969) 

M. Gilles Hebert, FSC 

Sts-Martyrs 

X 

X 

A 

Canot-Kayak 

80 gargons 10-14 

6 juil.-20 juil. 

905 sud boul. Bois-Francs 

C.P. 36 




Hebertisme 


20 juil.- 3 aout 

Arthabaska 

Cte Wolfe 




Tir a Parc 


6 juil.- 3 aout 

(819-357-2082) 

— 




Tir a la carabine 


$45.00/Semaine 






Natation 


($10.00) 

BEL AIR (1967) 

Frere Charles Dionne 

Stratford-Centre 



A 

Canotage 

72 gargons 10-14 

2 periodes: 

1527 Fradet 

Cte Wolfe 




Tir a Parc 

6 juil.-20 juil 

Drummondville 

— 




Tir a la carabine 


20 juil.- 3 aout 

(819-478-7671/478-0545) 





Hebertisme 


$45.00/Semaine 






Bricolage 


($10.00) 

BLEU ET BLANC INC. (1958) (Camp Familial) 







M. Jean-Louis Vezina 

Lac Simon 

X 

X 

A 

Canot 

Le camp regoit des families completes; 

1182 Bleury 

La Conception 




Natation 

les differentes activites organisees pour 

Montreal, H3B 3Y9 

Cte Labelle 




Sciences naturelles 

toutes les categories d'ages sont libres. 

(514-866-3222) 

(819-686-5201) 




Artisanat 

Proportionnes au cout de nourriture de 






Camping 

chaque famille pour une periode de 







15 jours. 


BOISJOLY (1928) 

M. Jules Leblanc 

Racine 

X 


A 

Natation 

50 gargons 14-16 

29 juin- 5 juil $32/S 

M. Bernard Proulx 

Cte Shefford 




Canot 

50 gargons 13-14 

6 juil.-l8 juil $65/per. 

450 Girouard, C.P. 370 

(514-532-2848) 




Camping 

50 gargons 11-13 

20 juil.-l aout $65/per. 

St-Hyacinthe J2S 2Y2 





Arts 

($10.00) 

(514-773-7692/773-4334) 





Tir a Parc 


BOUTE-EN-TRAIN (1962) 

Frere Maurice Bessette 

Chertsey 

X 

X 

A 

Hebertisme 

100 gargons 7-13 

6 juil.-25 juil. 

330 Montee Lesage 

Cte Montcalm 




Voile 

50 filles 7-11 

27 juil.-9 aout 

Rosemere 

(514-882-2368) 




Canot 


6 juil.-9 aout 

(514-625-2481) 





Escalade 


$70.00/Semaine 






Tir 


($10.00) 

CAP A L'ORIGNAL (1948) 

M. Ls-Geo. Lamontagne 

Bic 

X 

X 

A 

Excursions 

95 gargons 9-13 “1 

29 juin-12 juil. 

60 ouest, rue Eveche 

(Cte Rimouski) 




Camping 

40 filles 9-12 J 

C.P. 908 

(418-869-9902) 




Natation 

95 gargons 9-13 “1 

13 juil.-26 juil. 

Rimouski 





Bricolage 

40 filles 9-12 J 

(418-723-7749) 





Sciences naturelles 

40 gargons 9-13 "| 
95 filles 9-12 J 

27 nuil.- 9 aout 

$35.00/Semaine 








($5.00) 

CARREFOUR DES CITOYENS DE L'AVENIR (1963) 






(Camp Familial multi-ethnique) 







Sr. Denise Laine, SBC 

L'Avenir 

X 

— 

A 

Artisanat 

11 families ou 

Ouvert a I'annee 

4285 ouest, Maisonneuve 

Cte Johnson 




Sciences naturelles 

80 personnes 

Echelle proportion- 

Montreal, H3Z 1K7 

J0C 1 B0 




Natation 


nelle 

(514-932-2953) 

(819-394-2688) 




Hebertisme 


(Nil) 


Excursions 


64 



SECRETARIAT (HIVER) 

CAMP (ETE) 

PERSONNEL 

PAYS 

INFIRMIERE 

LIC. 

MEDECIN 

resident (R) 

sur appel (A) 

CLARET DU LAC ELGIN (1963) 


Pere Carmel Lerma, CMF 

Lac Elgin 

XX A 

Mile Pauline Rondeau 

Stratford-Centre 


Boulevard Gamache 

Cte Wolfe 


Victoriavill e 

(418-443-5213) 


(819-758-8533/562-1435) 



CLOCHER DU MANOIR (1972) 


M. Robert Sturgeon 

Chemin des Douanes 

X - A 

7085 Viau, suite 208 

Clarenceville 


Montreal, HIS 2N8 

Missisquoi 


(514-727-1138) 

(514-294-2255) 



COEUR JOIE (1951) 

M. Robert Maisonneuve Cheneville XX A 

M. Gilles Lapointe Cte Papineau 

C.P. 328/Station (819-428-3987) 

Youville, Montreal 
(514-326-3630) 

COLONIE DE VACANCES DES GREVES (1912) (F.O.C.C.F.) 

Secretariat des Camps R.R. no. 2 XX A 

493 o. rue Sherbrooke Contrecoeur 

Montreal (514-742-4767) 

(514-845-7639) 

COLONIE DE VACANCES DE MAIZERETS (1932) 

M. Lucien Godbout, Ptre 1000 LaVerendrye X — A 

1, Cote de la Fabrique (418-663-6497) 

Quebec 

(418-694-9923) 


COLONIE DE VACANCES PLEIN CHAMP (1963) 

Pere Marius Lessard St-Franpois du Lac 

Soeur Monique Gemme R.R. no. 1 

St-Franpois du Lac Yamaska 

R.R. no. 1 — Yamaska JOG 1M0 

(514-568-2253) (514-568-2253) 


X 


COLONIE ST-GABRIEL INC. (1945) 


M. Richard Goulet 
Secretariat des Camps 
493 o. rue Sherbrooke 
Montreal 
(514-845-7639) 

DE LA DECOUVERTE 

M. Maurice Comeau, Ptre 
Sr. Aline Theriault, SSA 
1850 St-Antoine 
Lachine H8S 1V4 
(514-637-1128) 


C.P. 330 

St-Gabriel de Brandon 
Cte Berthier 
(514-835-2831) 

(1971) 

Lac Bellevue 
Rang 9 

Mont Rolland 
(514-229-3328) 


X 


X 


X 


X 


A 


A 


A 


DE LA SALLE (1953) 

Fr. Gerard Giguere, Dir 
Fr. Laurent Hamel, Sec. 
150 boul. de Normandie 
Longueuil J4H 3P2 
(514-674-3151) 

DES LUTINS (1926) 

M. Franpois Lemire 
901, rue St-Louis 
Terrebonne 
(514-666-9228) 


St-Alphonse 
Cte Joliette 
J0K 1W0 
(514-883-9919) 


Entrelacs 

(St-Emile) 

Cte Montcalm 
(514-228-3112) 


XX A 


XX A 


DOMAINE DE LA FRATERNITE 


M. Denis Robillard 
Chevaliers de Colomb 
3565 rue Berri 
Montreal 
(514-849-9965) 


St-Ubald 
Cte Portneuf 
(418-366-2493) 


X X A 


PERIODES 

5 ACTIVITES FRAIS PENSION 

PRINCIPALES ACCUEIL (Frais Inscription) 


Voile/Ski nautique 

Canot 

Camping 

Equitation 

Escalade 


Natation/Canot 
Tir a I'arc 
Camping 
Brico-nature 
Taxiedermie (speciale) 


Camping 
Canot 
Natation 
Tir a I'arc 
Artisanat 


Arts Plastiques 

Natation 

Hebertisme 

Bicyclettes 

Athletisme 


Sports organises 
Act. Scientifiques 
Act. Artistiques 
Plein Air/Voyages 
Connaissance du Pays 


120 garpons 7-16 
108 filles 7-14 


35 garpons 9-15 
35 filles 9-15 


100 garpons 9-15 
80 filles 9-13 


300 garpons 6-13 
300 filles 6-13 


450 garpons 11-16 


29 juin-11 juil. 
13 juil.-25 juil. 
27 juil.-8 aout 
10 aout-22 aout 
$60.00/Semaine 
($ 10 . 00 ) 


23 juin- 4 juil. 

7 juil.-18 juil. 

4 aout-15 aout 
18 aout-29 aout 
$35.00/Semaine 
($ 10 . 00 ) 


21 juin-16 aout 
Per.: 2 semaines 
4 semaines 
8 semaines 
$35.00/Semaine 
($ 10 . 00 ) 

4 periodes de 2 
semaines — 5 jours/ 
semaine 

$10.00/2 semaines 
(Nil) 


8 semaines 
$5.00/Mois—juillet 
$5.00/Mois—aout 
($ 10 . 00 ) 


Hebertisme 

Natation 

Bricolage 

Tir a I'arc 

Excursions 

50 garpons 6-8 “] 
50 filles 6-8 J 

100 garpons 9-12— 

29 juin-11 juil. 

13 juil-1 aout 
- 3 aout-22 aout 
$35.00/Semaine 
($10.00) 

Natation 

Arts plastiques 
Camping 

Sciences naturelles 
Sports 

100 filles 6-12 

3 semaines 

Echelle proportion¬ 
al) 

Arts 

Sciences naturelles 
Bricolage 

Natation 

Hebertisme 

46 filles 8-14 - ^ 

24 filles 8-11 - 

24 filles 15-17- 

3 juil.-l 3 juil. 

17 juil.-27 juil. 

31 juil.-l0 aout 
$60.00/periode 
($10.00) 

11 aout-17 aout 

11 aout-17 aout 
$35.00/periode 
($5.00) 

Arts 

Ski nautique 

Camping 

Hebertisme 

Tirs: arc/pallets 

148 garpons 7-17 

36 filles 9-11 

29 juin-24 juil. 

27 juil.-15 aout 
$60.00/Semaine 
($10.00) 

Equitation 

Natation 

Chaloupe/Canot 

Hebertisme 

Ecologie 

140 garpons 7-15 

60 filles 8-11 

Periodes de 2 semaines 
$100.00/2 semaines 
$180.00/4 semaines 
$280.00/6 semaines 
$360.00/8 semaines 
($10.00) 

Natation 

Canot 

Chaloupes 

Equitation 

Camping 

63 garpons 8-15 

63 filles 8-15 

Periodes de 3 semaines 
$35.00/Semaine 
($15.00) 


65 



z 


zl* 

M 


PERIODES 


SECRETARIAT (HIVER) 

CAMP (ETE) 

LU < 
Q_ Q_ 

ULO 

Zj 

UT3 ™ 
HUwl 

m 

5 ACTIVITES 
PRINCIPALES 

ACCUEIL 

FRAIS PENSION 
(Frais Inscription) 

DOMAINE DE LA JEUNESSE (1964) 







M. Isidore Taillon 

St-David de Falardeau 

X 

X 

A 

Natation 

150 garpons 7-16 

$35.00/Semaine 

M. Francis Rousseau 

Cte Dubuc 




Athletisme 

50 filles 7-12 

($10.00) 

C.P. 322 

(418-673-4532) 




Tir a I'arc 



Arvida 





Kayak 



(418-548-8110) 





Camping 



DOMAINE NOTRE-DAME (1950) 







M. Jacques Masson 

Rue Ste-Jeanne 

X 

— 

A 

Natation 

16 emplacements: tentes, tentes-roulottes, 

323, Jeanne d'Arc 

Ste-Catherine 




Bade molle 


roulottes. 

Quebec 6 

Cte Portneuf 




Tennis 

7 chalets pour 6 personnes. 

(418-683-9924) 

(418-875-2583) 




Bricolage 

7 chambres pour celibataires. 






Feux de camp 



EDPHY (1964) 








M. Yvan Dubois 

14e Avenue 

X 

X 

A 

Natation 

125 garpons 6-16 

22 juin-18 juil. 

100-B, boul. des Prairies 

Val Morin 




Hebertisme 

125 filles 6-16 

20 juil.-15 aout 

suite 103 

JOT 2R0 




Tir a I'arc 


$90.00/Semaine 

Laval H7N 2T5 

(819-322-3011) 




Canot/Voile/Ski n. 


($25.00) 

(514-669-9068) 





Equitation 



ELENA GUERRA (1967) 








Sr. M-Therese Lorion 

Lac Labelle 

X 

X 

A 

Hebertisme 

15 garpons 5-7 

1 juil.-15 aout 

Sr. Umberta Nicolai 

(819-686-5626) 




Ballon volant 

65 filles 5-12 

$40.00/Semaine 

2800, Bossuet 





Natation 


($5.00) 

Montreal HIN 2S6 





Courses 



(514-255-7041) 





Excursions 



ESCALE (1966) 








M. Michel Lemay 

St-Zenon 

X 

X 

A 

Voile 

60 garpons et filles 

juin a aout 

2137 Letourneux 

Cte Berthier 




Plongee en surface 

de 12-18 ans par 

$5.00/jour 

Montreal 

(514-884-5484) 




Escalade 

groupe 

($10.00) 

(514-525-0359) 





Excursions 








Natation 



JEUNE AIR (1967) 








M. Raymond Levesque 

C.P. 30 

X 

X 

A 

Voile/Canot-Kayak 

75 garpons 9-14 H 

1 22 juin- 5 juil. 

C.P. 30, Lac Carre 

Lac Carre 




Natation 

75 filles 9-14 

1 $150.00/Periode 

Terrebonne JOT 1J0 

Terrebonne JOT 1 JO 




Escalade 

75 garpons 7-11 1 

j 8 juil.-21 juil. 

(514861-8113) 

(514-861-8113) 




Orientation 

75 filles 7-11 J 

1 $150.00/Periode 

(819-326-4281) 

(819-326-4281) 




Ecologie/Expression 

75 garpons 9-14 1 

1 24 juil.-11 aout 







75 filles 9-14 J 

1 $204.00/Periode 







75 garpons 7-9 "1 

1 14 aout-27 aout 







75 filles 7-9 J 

1 $150.00/Periode 







12-14 

($10.00) 

JOUVENCE 








M. Jacques Gauthier 

R.R. no. 1 

X 

X 

A 

Ecologie 

100 garpons 8-14 “1 

1 fin juin - fin aout 

58 rue Academie 

Bonsecours 




Canot/Voile 

180 filles 8-14 J 

1 $45.00/Semaine 

Sherbrooke J1H 1M7 

Cte Shefford 




Escalade 

90 garpons 8-14 1 

1 fin juin - fin aout 

(819-569-5011) 

(514-535-6633) 




Orientation 

170 filles 8-14 J 

1 $35.00/Semaine 






Survie/Camping 


($5.00) 

KATIMAVIK (1968) 








M. Charles Veilleux 

Lac McGregor 

X 

X 

A 

Equitation 

75 garpons 7-16 

Periode: 2 sem. 

C.P. 1237 

Cte Gatineau 




Voile 

75 filles 7-16 

4 sem; 6 sem; 

152A, rue Eddy 

(819-771-7992) 




Canot-Expeditions 

selon I'age 

8 semaines 

Hull 





Escalade 


$90.00/Semaine 

(819-771-7992) 





Cours itinerants 


(Nil) 

KENO (CAMP-ECOLE) (1966) 







M. Paul Belanger, S.M. 

St-Leonard 

X 

X 

A 

Canot-Camping 

106 garpons 

20 juin-23 juil. 

2315 Chemin St-Louis 

Cte Portneuf 




Sciences naturelles 


27 juil-20 aout 

Sillery, Quebec GIT 1R5 

G0A4A0 




Natation 

10-12 - 

• $250/Per. ($20) 

(418-651-4944) 

— 




Hebertisme 

13-14 - 

■ $260/Per. ($20) 






Tir a I'arc 

15-16 - 

■ $280/Per; ($20) 

L'ASSOMPTION (1963) 








M. Andre Rivest, Ptre 

La Minerve 

X 

— 

A 

Canot 

40 garpons 10-13—25 juin- 9 juil. 

270 boul. I'Ange Gardien 

Cte Labelle 




Ski nautique 

40 filles 10-13— 

-12 juil.-26 juil. 

L'Assomption 

(819-274-2018) 




Hebertisme 

40 filles 14-16-29 juil.-8 aout 

(514-589-5621) 





Sciences naturelles 

40 garpons- 

- 9aout-19aout 






Artisanat 


$40.00/Semaine 








(Nil) 

LE MANOIR (1964) 








Fr. Jean-Paul Parent 

Le Manoir 

— 

— 

A 

Hebertisme 

64 garpons 10-13 

29 juin-12 juil. 

Fr. Robert Paradis 

Les Eboulements 




Camping 


20 juil.-2 aout 

1400 Rt. de I'Aeroport 

Cte Charlevoix 




Natation 


$45.00/Semaine 

Ancienne Lorette 

(418-635-2666) 




Tir a I'arc 


($10.00) 


(418-872-1485) 


Bricolage 


66 







SECRETARIAT (HIVER) 

CAMP (ETE) 

PERSONNEL 

pay£ 

INFIRMIERE 

LIC. 

MEDECIN 

resident (R) 

sur appel (A) 

5 ACTIVITES 
PRINCIPALES 

ACCUEIL 

PERIODES 
FRAIS PENSION 
(Frais Inscription) 

LE RANCH MASSAWIPPI (1961) 






M. Norman Nadeau 

R.R. no. 3 

X 

X A 

Equitation 

40 garpons 7-14 

25 juin-23 juil. 

M. Jacques Deslauriers 

Granby J2G 8C7 



Vie sur la ferme 

40 filles 7-14 

24 juil.-29 aout 

R.R. no.3 

(514-372-3612) 



Natation 


$315.00/Mois 

Granby J2G 8C7 




Arts pfastiques 


$170.00/2 Semaines 

(514-372-3612) 




r Theatre- 

— 25 garpons 7-14 — 

22 aout-29 aoutl 





L 

25 filles 7-14 - 

$85.00/SemaineJ 

LES GAIS LURONS (1964) 







M. Lionel Fortin, S.C. 

Mont de I'lmmaculee 

— 

X A 

Hebertisme 

72 garpons 10-13 

6 juil.-3 aout 

7150 Marie-Victorin 

St-Anicet 



Natation/Canot 


$40.00/Semaine 

Montreal H1G 2J5 

(Huntingdon) JOS 1M0 



Tir a I'arc 


($10.00) 

(514-322-9301) 

(514-264-5134) 



Tir a la carabine 







Bricolage 



LES SOMMETS (1959) 







M. Raymond Gagnon, CSC 

Katevale 

— 

A 

Sciences naturelles 

60 garpons 11-15 

juin - aout 

1390, Notre-Dame 

Cte Stanstead 



Tir a I'arc 


$45.00/Semaine 

St-Cesaire 

(819-843-5461) 



Artisanat 


($10.00) 

Cte Rouville JOL 1T0 




Natation 



(514-469-3143) 




Hebertisme 



MARIE DE NAZARETH 







P. Philemon Bourgeois 

R.R.no.2 

X 

A 


6 a 14 ans / enfants defavorises seulement, 

M.L. Gosselin 

Lac Labelle Est 




dont les noms sont fournis par le Service 

6973 Christophe-Colomb 

Cte Labelle 




Social aux Families. 

Montreal 

(819-686-5302) 






(514-276-3860) 







MARISTE (1957) 







M. Maurice Boudreault 

650 Chemin Morgan 

X 

X A 

Canot 

128 garpons 9-13 

juin - aout 

650 Chemin Morgan 

Rawdon 



Tir a I'arc 


$170.00/3 semaines 

Rawdon 

J0K ISO 



Camping 


($25.00 

J0K ISO 

(514-834-3125) 



Hebertisme 


deductible de la 

(514-834-3125) 




Equitation 


pension) 

MERE M.L. CLARAC (1957) 






Soeur Louise Beaulac 

St-Donat 

X 

X A 

Athletisme 

60 garpons 4-10 

28 juin-16 aout 

3530 est, boul. Gouin 

Cte Montcalm 



Canotage 

120 filles 4-16 

$95.00/Semaine 

Montreal H 1H 1B7 

(819-424-2261) 



Equitation (suppl.) 


($15.00) 

(514-322-1161) 




Natation 







Tir a I'arc 



MICHEL INC. (1960) 







M.J.R. Dube 

Lac Bonally 

X 

X A 

Natation 

48 filles 6-12 

Reserve aux enfants 

C.P. 231 

(514-297-5710) 



Artisanat 


de milieux defavorises 

Sherbrooke 




Excursions 


de Sherbrooke et 

(819-569-5706) 




Athletisme 


banlieues. 





Sciences naturelles 


Frais variable 

MINOGAMI (CAMP-ECOLE) 

(1963) 






Madame Colette Marier 

Lac Minogami 

X 

X A 

Canot-camping 

130 garpons 7-16 “| 

24 juin-20 juil. 

M. Jean-Claude Marier 

Shawinigan 



Arts/Natation 

110 filles 7-12 J 


11 est, rue Cremazie 

Cte St-Maurice 



Sciences naturelles 

130 garpons 7-16 “1 

OC 1111 1 QO ♦ 

Quebec G1R 1Y1 

G0X 1P0 



Tirs: arc/carabine 

110 filles 7-13 J 

tO JUII. Z.VJ dOUl 

(418-529-5323) 

(819-539-4544) 



Hebertisme 

130 garpons 7-8 "1 

24 juin- 6 juil. 






110 filles 7-8 J 

8 juil.-20 juil. 






130 garpons 7-10 “I 

25 juil.- 8 aout 






110 filles 7-10 J 

8 aout-20 aout 







$75.00/Semaine 







($20.00) 

NOTRE-DAME DE LA JOIE (1959) 






M. Romain Menard 

Lac Croche 

X 

X A 

Natation 

72 filles 8-12 

29 juin-18 juil. 

4450 rue St-Hubert 

R.R. no.1 



Sciences naturelles 


20 juil.- 8 aout 

Montreal H2J 2W9 

St-Donat 



Arts plastiques 


$30.00/Semaine 

(514-524-1131) 

(819-424-5393) 



Exp. corporelle 


($10.00) 





Athletisme 



NOTRE-DAME DE MONTREAL (1941) 






Pere Raymond Mailhiot 

881, Rang Camp 

X 

X A 

Camping 

200 garpons 8-12 

26 juin-14 juil. 

Mme. B. Bellemare, Sec. 

Notre-Dame 



Sciences naturelles 

66 filles 8-10 

17 juil.-l aout 

C.P. 27, Station R 

St-Liguori 



Piste et pelouse 


4 aout-22 aout 

Montreal H2S 3K6 

Cte Montcalm J0K 2X0 



Arts plastiques 


$35.00/Semaine 

(514-277-2382) 

(514-834-2852) 



QApprenti Plein Air — 

36 garpons 13-14] 

($10.00) 

NOTRE-DAME DES PETITS (1959) 






Soeur Monique Morin 

Ste-Julienne 

X 

X A 

Natation 

60 garpons 5-7 

22 juin-18 juil. 

80 est, rue Laurier 

Cte Montcalm 



Hebertisme 

60 filles 5-9 

20 juil.-l 5 aout 

Montreal H2T 1E6 

J0K 2T0 



Chaloupe 


$45.00/Semaine 

(514-274-3247/279-7311) 

(514-834-2065) 



Sciences naturelles 


($15.00) 


Bricolage/Peinture 


67 




ID 


SECRETARIAT (HIVER) 

CAMP (ETE) 

PERSON 

PAYE 

INFIRMI 

LIC. 

MEDECI 

resident ( 

sur appel 

5 ACTIVITES 
PRINCIPALES 

ACCUEIL 

NOTRE-DAME DU LAC SEPT-ILES (1948) 






Mme Henriette Gagnon 

Lac Sept-lles 

X 

X 

A 

Natation 

40 gargons 7-10 

1330 Chemin Ste-Foy 

St-Raymond 




Camping 

60 filles 7-16 

Quebec 6 

Cte Portneuf 




Bricolage 


(418-527-2555) 

(418-337-2350) 




Canotage 







Tir a I'arc 


OASIS NOTRE-DAME (1924) 






M. Adrien Duperre, SV 

St-Leonard 

X 

X 

A 

Canot 

180 gargons 8-14 

M. Charles-H. Audet, SV 

Cte Portneuf 




Natation 


804 Cote d'Abraham 

(418-337-6256) 




Camping 


Quebec G1R 1 A3 





Sciences naturelles 


(418-525-7178) 





Arts plastiques 


OLIER (1954) 







M. Come Lalande, PSS 

R.R.no. 1 

X 

— 

A 

Exp. corporelle 

60 gargons 12-16 

1931 ouest, Sherbrooke 

Piedmont 




Artisanat 


Montreal H3H 1 E3 

Ste-Anne des Lacs 




Hebertisme 


(514-933-7869) 

(514-224-2004) 




Camping 







Tir a I'arc 


OOLAHWAN (1917) 







Y.W.C.A. de Montreal 

C.P. 138 

X 

X 

A 

Natation 

120 filles 7-15 

1355 rue Dorchester o. 

Ste-Marguerite du 




Arts 


Montreal H3G 113 

Lac Masson 




Excursions 


(514-866-9941) 

Cte Terrebonne 




Sports 



(514-228-3310) 




Canot 


PHARNASOL (1972) 







M. Claude Trottier 

Lac Gemont 

X 

X 

A 

Arts 

30 gargons 9-12 

M. Eugene Picard 

Montfort 




Canotage 

30 filles 9-12 

C.P. 162 -Succ. A 

Cte d'Argenteuil 




Natation 


Longueuil 

(514-226-3135) 




Photographie 


(514-677-3463) 





Excursions 


RICHELIEU QUATRE-SAISONS (1964) 






M. Jean-Pierre Joly 

Grand Lac Cache 

X 

— 

A 

Canot-Camping 

20 gargons 9-12 

20St-Charles * 

Labelle 




Escalade 

20 filles 9-12 

Ste-Therese 

Cte Labelle 




Orientation 

10 gargons 12-13 

(514-435-5341) 

(819-686-2123) 




Trav. manuels Plein 

10 filles 12-14 






Air/Rand. en foret 

20 garcons 14-17 







20 filles 14-17 







12 gargons 14-17 







12 filles 14-17 

RICHELIEU ST-CLEMENT 

(1965) 






M. Bernard Demers 

C.P. 30 




Natation 

60 filles 8-12 - 

C.P. 30 

St-Come 




Athletisme 

60 gargons 8-12 - 

St-Come 

Cte Joliette 




Survie 

60 filles 8-12 - 

Cte Joliette 

(514-883-6446) 




Sciences naturelles 

60 gargons 8-12 - 

(514-883-6446) 





Arts plastiques 


ST-ALEXIS DES MONTS 







Mme Jean-Raymond Boudou 

C.P. 271 

X 

— 

A 

Artisanat 

20 gargons 6-13 

5607 Darlington 

Riviere aux Ecorces 




Camping 

20 filles 6-12 

Montreal H3T 1T1 

(819-265-2348) 




Hebertisme 


(514-731-4877) 





Natation 



Tirs: arc/carabine 


ST-DONAT (F.O.C.C.F.) (1968) 






M. Bernard C. Miron 

St-Donat 

X 

X 

A 

Natation 

300 gargons 9-14 

493 ouest, Sherbrooke 

Cte Montcalm 




Tir a I'arc 


Montreal H3A 1 B6 

(819-424-2525) 




Canot 


Campeurs (514-845-7639) 





Camping 


Moniteurs (514-933-3036) 





Voile 


ST-FRANCOIS (ILE D'ORLEANS) (1949) 






M. Jean-Leon Carette 

St-Frangois 

X 

X 

A 

Natation 

80 filles 7-13 

M. Michel Proulx 

lie d'Orleans 




Camping 

80 gargons 7-12 

Grand Seminaire, ch: 2137 

(418-829-2453) 




Tir a I'arc 


Universite Laval, Quebec 





Arts Plastiques 


(418-658-7110) 





Sciences naturelles 


ST-FRANCOIS DE BLACK LAKE (1957) 






Soeur Gertrude Fortier 

C.P. 98 

- 

- 

A 

Natation 

25 gargons 6-11 

Sr. Jeanne Belanger, Sec. 

Maison Nazareth 




Sciences naturelles 

25 filles 6-12 

C.P. 98, Maison Nazareth 

Black Lake 




Bricolage 


Black Lake, Cte Megantic 

Cte Megantic 




Tir a I'arc 


(418-423-4733) 

(418-423-4733) 




Hebertisme 



PERIODES 
FRAIS PENSION 
(Frais Inscription) 


1 juil.-24 juil. 
28 juil.-21 aout 
$200.00/Periode 
(Nil) 


22 juin-19 juil. 
24 juil.-19 aout 
periode: 2 sem. 
$35.00/Semaine 
$140.00/Mois 
($ 10 . 00 ) 


Periode: 2 sem. 
29 juin-10 aout 
$40.00/Semaine 
($5.00) 


Periode: 2 sem. 
29 juin-10 aout 
$40.00/Semaine 


1 juil.-30 aout 
$70.00/Semaine 
($5.00) 


Periode: 1 semaine 
2 semaines 
fins de semaine 
Variable 


30 juin-11 juil. 
14 juil.-25 juil. 
28 juil.- 8 aout 
11 aout-22 aout 
$45.00/Semaine 


29 juin-12 juil. 

13 juil.-26 juil. 

27 juil.- 9 aout 
10 aout-23 aout 
$65.00/Semaine 
($ 10 . 00 ) 

25 juin-19 juil. 

23 juil.-l 6 aout 
Echelle proportion- 
nelle 


2 juil.-22 juil. 

28 juil.-l 7 aout 
$150.00/3 semaines 
($15.00) 


29 juin-19 juil. 
20 juil.- 9 aout 
$45.00/Semaine 
($ 10 . 00 ) 


68 



SECRETARIAT (HIVER) 


CAMP (ETE) 


Z 

S'W 

cc> 

LLt < 
CL CL 


DC 

U-CJ 


zEr 

/ ^ ^ OJ 

w g a 
Q TJ ro 

'UJw »- 
5*0) 3 


5 ACTIVITES 
PRINCIPALES 


ACCUEIL 


PERIODES 
FRAIS PENSION 
(Frais Inscription) 


STE-JEANNE D'ARC (1926) 

(La Fondation du Club St-Laurent Kiwanis 


Madame Madeleine Harel 
M. Robert Harel 
10, St-Jacques, ch: 602 
Montreal H2Y 1 L2 
(514-849-5955) 

ST-MICHEL (1955) 

M. Raymond Desy 
M. Real Longpre 
(514-524-3681) 


ncj 

1343 Marie-Victorin 
R.R. no.2 
Contrecoeur 
(514-743-7315) 


Lac a la Truite 
R.R. no.3 
St-Michel des Saints 
Berthier 
(514-833-6781) 


ST-STANISLAS (CANTON DES JEUNES) (1952) 

M. Arthur Fardais Low X 

34, Laval Cte Gatineau 

Hull (819-422-3442) 

(613-771-1227) 

ST-VINCENT DE PAUL EN HAUT (1968) 

M. J.C. Chartrand, Ptre St-Theodore de Chertsey X 

Mile Claire Menard Cte Montcalm 

2310 est, Cte-Catherine (514-883-6327) 

Montreal H2K 2J4 
(514-526-3331) 


SANTE BRUCHESI (1925) (F.O.C.C.F.) 


Mile Leonie Normandeau 
2225 est, rue Rachel 
Montreal 

Campeurs (514-845-7639) 
Minoteurs (514-527-2831) 

SAVIO (1961) 

M. Bob Gagne 
Seminaire Salesien 
Rue Don Bosco 
Sherbrooke J1 L 1E5 
(819-569-2222) 


TROIS-SAUMONS (CAMP-ECOLE) (1946) 


365e Avenue 
Lac I'Achigan 
Cte Terrebonne 
JOR IPO 
(514-563-3056) 


Katevale 

(819-843-2828) 


M. Pierre Bigaouette 
M. Roland Comeau 
11 est, rue Cremazie 
Quebec G1R 1Y1 
(418-529-5323) 


Lac Trois-Saumons 
Cte I'lslet 
GOR 1V0 
(418-598-6410) 


VAL HEUREUX (1958) 

M. Gabriel Goudreau St-Paulin 

St-Paulin Cte Maskinonge 

Cte Maskinonge JOK 3G0 

J0K3G0 (819-268-2088) 

(819-268-2088) 

VIVALDI (CAMP MUSICAL) (1970) 


M. Fernand Langlais 
Madame Louise Triquet 
2110 des Appalaches 
Quebec GIP 2K8 
(418-527-4598) 

VIVE LA JOIE 

M. Jean-Claude Fortier 
St-M odeste 
Cte Riviere du Loup 
(418-856-3612) 


Pavilion La Mennais 
Campus Notre-Dame de 
Foy 

Cap-Rouge 


St-Modeste 

Cte Riviere du Loup 

(418-856-3612) 


Natation 
Hebertisme 
Arts plastiques 
Sciences naturelles 
Camping 


Canot 
Tir a I'arc 
Camping 
Hebertisme 

Tir a I'arc 
Athletisme 
Camping 
Arts plastiques 
Explo Nature 


Natation 
Hebertisme 
Athletisme 
Sciences naturelles 
Artisanat 


Arts plastiques 
Natation 


Musique (instrum.) 
Arts plastiques 
Rythmique 
Natation 
Tir a I'arc 


144 filles 6-12 
16 filles 13-14 


— f“25 juin-14 juil. 

— 15 juil.- 3 aout 
L 4 aout-23 aoOt 

Echelle proportion- 
nelle. ($3.00) 


50 gargons 7-12 juin-juillet 
50 filles 7-12 juillet - aout 

$65.00/2 semaines 

($ 20 . 00 ) 


32 gargons 7-10 1 Periode: 1 semaine 
32 filles 7-10 J juillet - aout 
32 gargons 11-141 $35.00/Semaine 
32 filles 11-14 J 
32 gargons 7-10 1 
32 filles 7-10 J 
32 gargons 11-141 
32 filles 11-14 J 


($5.00) 


240 gargons 7-13 
160 filles 7-11 


26 juin-18 juil. 

24 juil.-15 aout 
Echelle proportion- 
nelle. 


Aquatiques 

225 

gargons 8-14 

29 

juin-16 aout 

Bricolart 



29 

juin-13 juil. 

Sciences naturelles 



29 

juin-27 juil. 

Tir a I'arc 



13 

juil.-27 juil. 

Carabines 



27 

juil.-16 aout 




$35.00/Semaine 





($10.00) 

Camping 

Canots/Chaloupes 

145 

145 

garcons 7-13 1 
filles 7-14 J 

24 

juin-25 juil. 

Arts/Natation 

145 

gargons 7-13 1 


i i 111 .OH onn t 

Sciences naturelles 

145 

filles 7-15 J 


J U 11. ZU dUU l 

Tirs/Hebertisme 

145 

gargons 7-8 *1 

24 

juin- 6 juil. 


145 

filles 7-8 J 

8 

juil.-20 juil. 


145 

gargons 7-10 1 

25 

juil.-6 aout 


145 

filles 7-10 J 

8 

aout-20 aout 




$75.00/Semaine 





($20.00) 

Tir a I'arc 

50 

gargons 12-16 

29 

juin-19 juil. 

Camping 



20 

juil.- 2 aout 

Hebertisme 



3 

aout-16 aout 


85 gargons 5-17 
85 filles 5-17 


$40.00/Semaine 

($ 10 . 00 ) 


7 juil.-25 juil. 
$54.25/Semaine 
($25.00) 


69 



SECRETARIAT (HIVER) 


CAMP (ETE) 


5 ACTIVITES 
PRINCIPALES 


ACCUEIL 


PERI ODES 
FRAIS PENSION 
(Frais Inscription) 


_j uj 

ID DC 

2 W 

°uj 1 


2 e< 

8e1 


CAMPS SPECIALISES 

Dans le but d'aider les gens a la recherche de camps specialises, nous vous offrons la liste suivante. 

En general, ces camps sont bilingues. 

CAROWANIS (1958) 

(Camp pour les Enfants diabetiques du Quebec) 


M. Walter Mingie, Dir. 

C.P. 280 

X 

X 

R 

Natation 

50 garpons 8-15 

5 juil.-26 juil. 

Mme Norma Grant, Regis. 

Ste-Agathe 




Hebertisme 

50 filles 8-15 

26 juil.-16 aout 

4845 o. rue Sherbrooke 

J8C 3A3 




Artisanat 


Echelle proportion- 

Montreal H3Z 1G6 

(819-326-2456) 




Canot 


nelle. 

(514-932-4768) 





Tennis 



CENTRE DE VACANCES DE L'ASSOCIATION DE PARALYSIE CEREBRALE (1949) 



M. Jacques Corbeil 

490 Lacolle 

X 

X 

A 

Sports 

18 garpons 18-40 

Periode: 27 jours 

3015 o. rue Sherbrooke 

Cantic 




Voyages 

18 filles 18-40 

Echelle proportion- 

No. 217 

Cte St-Jean 




Excursions 


nelle. 

Montreal H3Z 1A1 

(514-246-3554) 




Soirees recreatives 


($5.00) 

(514-937-9143) 





Activ. culturelles 



CENTRE DE PLEIN AIR LA CALECHE (1969) 







M. Rene Rousseau 

125, Tour du Lac 

X 

X 

A 


(Reserve aux enfants de I'lnstitution) 

125, Tour du Lac 

Ste-Agathe 







Ste-Agathe 

(819-326-3753) 

(819-326-3753) 







CENTRES MARRONNIERS INC. (1970) 







M. Roger Roy, Dir. Gen. 

30 Old Mill Road 

X 

X 

A 

Act. Socio-culturel. 

30 garpons 18-30 

1 juin-31 aout 

M. Michel Ladouceur 

Pointe Claire 




Act. Nautiques 


Echelle proportion- 

5695 Ave. des Marronniers 

lie Perrot 




Arts plastiques 


nelle. 

Montreal HIT 2W3 

(514-453-4187) 




Sports 



(514-255-4026) 

DOMAINE DESCIMES 





Sorties educatives 



Mile Margaret Porter 

Hopital Ste-Anne 

X 

X 

A 

(Reserve aux enfants de I'Hopital Ste-Anne) 

Hopital Ste-Anne 

Baie St-Paul 





Echelle proportionelle 

Baie St-Paul 

Cte Charlevoix 







Cte Charlevoix 

(418-435-2005) 








(418-435-2005) 

DOMAINE DESPRES 
ENFANTS INFIRMES (1938) 

(Societe pour les Enfants Infirmes du Quebec) 


M. Yves Beauregard 

St-Alphonse de 

X 

R 

R 

Natation 

30 garpons 21-45“ 

] 6juin-20juin 

1455, rue Rochon 

Rodriguez 




Canot/Voile 

30 filles 21-45 . 

Montreal H4L 1W1 

Cte Joliette 




Camping 

20 garpons 2-6 


(514-748-8816) 

(514-883-9915) 




Tir a I'arc 

20 filles 2-6 

i 27 juin-25 juil. 






Arts Plastiques 

105 garpons 13-21" 
105 filles 13-21 . 

J 







125 garpons 2-12 
125 filles 2-12 

) 29 juil.-22 aout 








Echelle proportion- 
nelle. ($10.00) 

GATINEAU (1970) 

M. Michel Charbonneau 

Ste-Cecile de Masham 

X 

X 

A 

Natation 

225 garpons 8-30 

29 juin-18 juil. 

Ste-Cecile de Masham 

Cte Pontiac 




Bade molle 

225 filles 8-30 

20 juil.- 8 aout 

Cte Pontiac 

(819-456-2002) 




Camping 


10 aout-29 aout 

(819-456-2002) 





Bricolage 


Echelle proportion- 






Hebertisme 


nelle. 

MASSAWIPPI (1951) 








(Mackay Center pour les 

Enfants Sourds et Infirmes) 






M. A.H. Marden, Pres. 

Ayer's Cliff 

X 

X 

A 

Hobbycraft 

50 garpons 7-17 

Periode: 6 semaines 

M. H. Yates 

(819-838-4707) 




Canotage 

50 filles 7-17 

Juillet et aout 

3500 boul. Decarie 





Tir a I'arc 


No charge — 

Montreal H4A 3J5 





Excursions 


students of Mackay. 

(514-482-0500) 

RICHELIEU (1970) 





Volleyball 


$10.00 others 

Sr. Marie-Therese Cote 

550 St-Louis sur le Lac 

X 

X 

A 

Natation 

30 garpons 6-12 

juillet et aout 

Pavilion des Jeunes 

Lac St-Joseph 




Hebertisme 

50 filles 6-17 

Reserve aucun frais 

St-Damien 

Cte Portneuf 




Brico-nature 



Cte Bellechasse G0R 2Y0 

(418-875-2293) 




Sciences naturelles 



(418-789-2085) 





Tir a I'arc 




70 



SECRETARIAT (HIVER) 

o 

> 

-O 

m* 

— 1 

m* 

PERSONNEL 

pay£ 

INFIRMIERE 

LIC. 

MEDECIN 

resident (R) 

sur appel (A) 

Z°ui 

- > 

20 

O H 

H 

m 

ACCUEIL 

PERIODES 
FRAIS PENSION 
(Frais Inscription) 

TERRE DES JEUNESSTE 

-JULIENNE (1971) 




M. Justin Bournival 

2973 Rang du Cordon X 

X A Camping 

35 gargons 6+ 

22 juin-11 juil. 

Mme Carmen S. Bournival 

(514-831-2147) 

Excursions 

35 filles 6+ 

13 juil.- 1 aout 

1086 J.J. Joubert 


Natation 


3 aout-22 aout 

Laval 


Equitation 


$50.00/Semaine 

(514-667-6595) 


Agriculture 


($5.00) 

VILLA NOTRE-DAME DE 

FATIMA (1948) 




Abbe Paul Leboeuf 

R.R.no. 1 X 

— A Bricolage 

16garpons5-8 

1 2 periodes de 

Abbe Gerard Hebert 

Les Chenaux 

Natation 

16 filles 5-15 . 

J 2 semaines 

3747 rue St-Denis 

Vaudreuil 

Ski nautique 

32 filles 5-15 

2 periodes de 

Montreal H2X 3L8 

J7V 5V5 

Bicyclette 


2 semaines 

(514-849-6109) 

(514-455-3838) 

Hebertisme 


Reserve pour les 





enfants sourds. 





($5.00) 

Q.C.A. / A.C.Q. 






MEMBRES COMMERCIAUX - COMMERCIAL MEMBERS 


CAMP SHOP INC. 


GENERAL FOODS LTEE/MAITRE D'S.A. 

(Bea & Charles Grant) 

514-737-0847 (Pierre-Paul Dubuc) 


514-363-7777 

4985 Queen Mary Rd., Montreal H3W 1X4 

795 — 90e Avenue, Ville Lasalle 


Camp Clothing / Articles de camp 

Jus d'orange Tang, cafe, jello, etc. 


PRODUITS CANADIANA PRODUCTS 

GIBBONS FOODS LIMITED 


(Rejeanne Patenaude) 

514-655-9035 (R.A. Bedard) 


514-626-5615 


130 boul. Industriel, Boucherville 
Produits alimentaires / Food products 

CANVAS EQUIPMENT LIMITED/LIMITEE 

(N. Faubert) 514-849-6152 

239 St. Sacrement, Montreal H2Y 1W9 
Tentes et accessoires et reparations 

CN A/ASSURANCE 

(M. Cusson) 514-866-3851 

5 Place Ville-Marie, Montreal H3B 2G5 
Assurances pour etudiants et groupes 

COLORAMIC LTEE/LTD. 

(Daniel Emond) 514-274-4309 

2398 boul. Rosemont, Montreal H2G 1V1 
Prix de gros / Wholesaler price 


4353 Cedar Drive, Pierrefonds H9H 2K2 
Outstanding variety of camp foods 

S. GUMPERT CO. OF CANADA LTD. 

(E. Carlin) 514-731-5750 

31 Brock Avenue, Toronto M6K 2L1 
Produits alimentaires legers, etc. 

KELLOGG/SALADA COMPANY OF CDA. LIMITED 

(A. Lupien) 514-735-1141 

5430 Cote de Liesse, Montreal H4P 1A6 
The best to you each morning 

MILLER LABEL & TICKET CO. 

(Mr. & Mrs. Miller) 514-861-1924 

809 William St., Room 402, Montreal H3C 1N8 
Name tapes, printed, washable $2.50/100 


CORBEIL-HOOKE ARTS & CRAFTS LIMITED 

(Miss V. Bouchard) 514-866-7867 

1218 Drummond, Montreal H3G 1V7 
Accessoires et materiel pour artistes 

CREST-O-MATIC 

(Claude Prevost) 514-527-9116 

1407 Iberville, Montreal H2K 3B1 
Ecussons / Crests — Decalques etc. 

DORFIN PAPER PRODUCTS QUEBEC LTD. 

(Neil Tryansky) 514-353-2000 

11000 Parkway Blvd., Montreal H1J 1 R9 
Disposable cups-plates/napkins, towels 

EMERGENCY FIRST AID SERVICE LTD. 

(S. Levin) 514-384-4500 

1180 Louvain W., Montreal H4N 1G5 
First aid supplies to camps, etc. 

FOREMOST 

(M. Kahani) 514-637-2527 

1560 Brandon Cres., Lachine H8T 2M9 
Mini preparations / aliments prepares 


E.W. REID INC. 

(E.W. Reid) 

708 Gold Road, Nun's Island 
Palco Camp cook sets 

ST-JEROME CREMERIE/DAIRY 

(Paul Daze) 

621 St-Georges, St-Jerome, Que. 

Assortiment complet de produits laitiers 

ST. LOUIS BEDDING COMPANY LIMITED 

(Edward Spiegel) 514-352-1230 

9850 Parkway Blvd., Montreal H1J 1P6 
Mfr. camp beds, mattresses—bunk beds 

TANDY LEATHER COMPANY OF CANADA LIMITED 

(Allan Eyers) 705-728-2481 

John Street, Barrie, Ontario 

Leather & craft supplies / Acc. artisanat 

VIAU 

(Marcel Sanguinet) 514-255-2811 

4945 rue Ontario est, Montreal HIV 1M1 
Biscuits/Candies — Bonbons/Chocolats etc. 


514-761-3404 


514-432-9757 


71 





Quebec Comping fl/zociolion 
Sfengli/h /ection^ 


ENGLISH SECTION 


PROVINCIAL BOARD 


Executive Secretary 

Miss Frances M. Kelly 
2233 Belgrave Avenue 
Montreal, Quebec H4A 2L9 
(514-489-1541) 

Honorary President 

Mrs. Alta R. Kahn 

Honorary Members 

Mr. & Mrs. Neil B. Powter 

Mr. A.R< Seaman 

Mr. T. Shorgan 

Miss A.I. Vail 

Mr. F.M. Van Wagner 


President: 

Vice-Presidents: 

Treasurer: 

Secretary: 

Past President: 


Mrs. Val Willis 
Mrs. Barbara Patterson 
Mr. Wilfred Jackson 
Mrs. D. Jacques Reeves 
Mr. Joseph A. Friedman 
Mr. Zave Ettinger 


Committee Chairmen 

Mrs. J. Robin Allen — Co-Chairmen Staff Training 
Mr. Doug Anakin — Co-Chairmen Staff Training 
Mrs. Nicholas D. Demetelin — Directory of Membership 
Mr. Leon Hochglaube - Day Camps 
Mr. Joseph A. Hood — Archives 
Mr. Isaac Katofsky — Senior Citizens 
Miss Frances M. Kelly — Staff Placement Bureau 
Mr. Robert Lazanik — Association of Leisure Time 
Services of Quebec 
Rev. J.W. McCarthy — Program 
Mr. Walter Mingie — Outdoor Education 
Mr. Sidney Sundborg — Conference 
Mr. Peter Van Wagner — Standards 
Mr. Derek Walsh — Publicity and Public Relations 
Dr. Kenneth R. Willis - Constitution and By-Laws 
Mrs. Kenneth R. Willis — Ethics 


Members without Portfolio 

Mrs. Alta R. Kahn Mr. Jules Leavitt, Q.C. 

Mr. Kenneth Murray Mr. Neil B. Powter 

Mr. A. Ross Seaman Mr. Tony Shorgan 

Mr. F.M. Van Wagner 


Provincial Office 

952, Cherrier Street 
Montreal, Quebec 
H2L1H7 
(514-527-3511) 


Honorary Members 

H. Capt. Abbe Raoul Cloutier 
Mr. Jules Leavitt, CR 

President: Mr. Rosaire Corbin 

Vice-Presidents: Mrs. Val Willis 

Mr. R. Maisonneuve 

Treasurer: Mr. Peter Van Wagner 

Secretary: Rev. Paul Belanger 


Past President: 

Mr. Robert Lazanik 


Board Members 

Mr. Gilles Lapointe 
Rev. Bob Gagne 
Mr. Bernard Miron 
Mr. Zave Ettinger 
Mrs. Barbara Patterson 


Past Presidents 

Mr. Lionel Perras 

Mrs. N.D. Demetelin 

Mr. Tony Shorgan 

Mrs. Alta R. Kahn 

H. Capt Abbe Raoul Cloutier 


QUEBEC CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

The QUEBEC CAMPING ASSOCIATION INC. — L'ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU QUEBEC INC. is a bilingual non-profit 
organization incorporated under Quebec law, January 23rd, 1961. The English Section was started in 1937, and was incor¬ 
porated by Federal Charter in 1949. It is affiliated with the CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION. 

Our Association is a voluntary organization, composed of Camp Owners, Directors, Senior Staff, Counsellors, Commercial 
Members and interested individuals working together to develop and maintain the highest possible standards of camp opera¬ 
tion by our members in Quebec. A varied programme of activities enables members to keep abreast of the latest developments 
in the field of camping, to study common problems and to exchange ideas as to their possible solution. The ultimate purpose 
of all this activity is to ensure the excellence of the camping experiences of our Quebec youth. Increasingly, it is realized that 
this experience is an educational, as well as a recreational one. It is perhaps the ideal environment for a child's social-emotional 
growth. 


72 


This list of accredited member camps is intended primarily for those persons interested in sending their children to camp. All 
the camps listed have been inspected and found to meet the standards of the Q.C.A. — A.C.Q. The Association, however, does 
not supervise these camps in any way. For this reason, and because only parents themselves are fully aware of their particular 
needs and wants, the Q.C.A. — A.C.Q. does not undertake to recommend any one camp or individual. 

The information contained in this Directory is supplied by the member accredited camps, and is correct to the best of our 
knowledge at the time of publication; however, the Q.C.A. — A.C.Q. does not accept responsibility for any errors, omissions 
or individual camp changes. 

For further information the individual Directors and/or Owners should be consulted. 

The use of this directory for commercial purposes without the written consent of the Q.C.A. — A.C.Q. is prohibited. 


GROUPED INDEX OF ACCREDITED MEMBER CAMPS 


Private Residential — Boys 
National Hockey School 
Nominingue 
Weredale 

Private Residential — Girls 

Ouareau 

Private Residential — Co-ed 

Cloud's Hill — Colline aux Nuages 

Demetelin 

Elgin Gym 

Hiawatha 

Kennebec 

Maro Mac 

Mere M.L. Clarac 

Pembina 

Pine Valley 

Robinson 

Sans Souci Riding Centre 
Wilvaken 


Organizational Residential — Boys 
Boy Scouts of Canada 
Camp Lewis 
Quebec Lodge 
Trail's End 

Organizational Residential — Girls 

Marian 

Lighthall 

Oolahwan 

Quebec Lodge 

Wa-Thik-Ane(GGOC) 

Organizational Residential — Co-ed 

Amy Molson 

B'nai B'rith 

Frontier Lodge 

Kanawana 

Les Voyageurs de la Verendrie 

Massad 

Pinerose 


Organizational Residential — Co-ed contd. 

Wooden Acres 
YM-YWHA Country Camp 

Day Camps 

Cherokee Country Day Camp 
Green Acres 

North/Am Hockey School 

Perrot 

Shalom 

YM-YWHA 

Family Camps 
Chapleau 
Kinkora 
Orelda 

Senior Citizens 

Jewish Laurentian Fresh Air 


SPECIALIZED CAMPS 


Ca rowan is — Diabetic Children 
Centre de Vacances de I'Association de 
Paralysie Cerebrale 

Centre de Plain Air La Caleche — Socially- 
Emotionally Disturbed 

Centre Marronniers — Mentally Retarded Adults 
Domaine des Cimes 
Domaine des Pres 


Crippled Children - Phys. Handicapped—Heart Cases- 
Cyst. Fibrosis 

Gatineau — Mentally Retarded 
Massawippi — Deaf — Crippled Children 
Richelieu — For the Children of the Institution 
Terre des Jeunes (Ste-Julienne) — Different Handicaps 
Villa Notre-Dame de Fatima — For Deaf Children 


Boys' Clubs of Canada 
Mr. J.A. Hood 
35 York Street 
Montreal, Que. H3Z 1N7 
(514-481-0108) 

The Canadian Red Cross Society 
Mr. Jean-Denis Godbout 
2170 Dorchester Blvd. West 
Montreal, Que. H3M 1 R6 
(514-937-7761) 


Adelstein, Mrs. Helma 

Jewish Laurentian Fresh Air Camp 
Badian, Mr. Victor 

Camp Nominingue Inc. 

Belmonte, Dr. Mimi 
Camp Carowanis 
Bower, Mr. John 

Camp Nominingue Inc. 


ORGANIZATIONAL MEMBERS 

The Royal Life Saving Society 

Mr. Daniel Masse 

455 St. Jean St., Room 202 

Montreal, Que. H2Y 2R5 

(514-844-9315) 

Dawson College, CRL Dept. 

Mr. A. Ross Seaman 
535 Viger Street 
Montreal, Que. H2L 2P3 
(514-849-2351) 


INDIVIDUAL MEMBERS 

Carstensen, Mr. A. 

Quebec Camping Association 
Carstensen, Mrs. A. 

Quebec Camping Association 
Crochetiere, Mr. Henry 
St. Pat's Camp 
Dott, Mr. James 

Camp Nominingue Inc. 


The Suburban 

Mrs. Sophie Wollock 
8170 Wavell Road 
CoteSt. Luc, Que. H4W 1M3 
(514- 484-1107) 


Ettinger, Mr. Zave 
B'nai B'rith Camp 
Hermesh, Mr. Rafi 
Camp Hagshama 
Hewetson, Mr. Bill 

Quebec Camping Association 
Kahn, Mrs. Alta R. 

Hon. President - Q.C.A. 


73 


Kelly, Miss Frances M. 

Quebec Camping Association 
Lavoie, Miss Jacquelin 

Quebec Camping Association 
Leavitt, Mr. Jules 

Quebec Camping Association 
Magil, Mr. William 
B'nai B'rith Camp 
McBride, Miss Maureen 

Quebec Camping Association 
Moller, Mrs. Elsa 
Camp Pine Rose 
Morris, Miss Marion 
YM-YWCA 

Murray, Mr. Kenneth H. 

Quebec Camping Association 
Page, Mr. Robert 

Clouds Hill—Colline aux Nuages 
Percival, Miss Dorothy 

Quebec Camping Association 


Phillips, Mrs. Ethel 

Jewish Community Camps 
Powter, Mr. Neil B. 

Quebec Camping Association 
Powter, Mrs. Neil B. 

Quebec Camping Association 
Price, Mrs. Greville 

Clouds Hill—Colline aux Nuages 
Reeves, Mrs. D. Jacques 

Quebec Camping Association 
Riley, Mr. Douglas 

Camp Nominingue Inc. 

Rimer, Mr. Seymoor 
B'nai B'rith Camp 
Robert, Mr. Andras L. 

Camp Robinson 
Seaman, Mr. A. Ross 

Quebec Camping Association 
Segal, Mr. Burt 
B'nai B'rith Camp 

STUDENT MEMBERS 

Demetelin, Miss Eirini 
Camp Demetelin 
McGavock, Mr. Neil 
Camp Nominingue Inc. 


Shetler, Mr. Roy 

Quebec Camping Association 
Shorgan, Mr. Tony 

Quebec Camping Association 
Simon, Mrs. Eva 

Clouds Hill—Colline aux Nuages 
Smith, Mr. Trevor 

Camp Nominingue Inc. 

Spinder, Mr. William 
B'nai B'rith Camp 
Vail, Miss Anne I. 

Quebec Camping Association 
Van Wagner, Mr. F.M. 

Camp Nominingue Inc. 

Walsh, Mr. Greg 

St. Laurent Neighborhood Assoc. 
Wilkinson, Dr. Robert 

Quebec Camping Association 
Wood, Mr. David W. 

Camp Nominingue Inc. 


Smith, Mrs. Eleanor 
Camp Amy Molson 


ACCOMMODATION SEASON/FEES 


Ahmel, Mr. Phil 
Camp Wilvaken 
Coopersmith, Mr. Alan 
Camp Amy Molson 


OFFICE (WINTER) 


ACCREDITED MEMBER CAMPS 

u_ 2 

u_ rr —■* 

< w 

| 2dOI® 5 CAMP 
CAMP (SUMMER) £ GCZ Q 2? o ACTIVITIES 


AMY MOLSON (1944) 

Mrs. Barbara Patterson 

Box 179, Grenville 

X 

X 

c 

Swimming 

72 boys 5-8 

Period: 3 weeks 

1040 Atwater, no: 206 

Argenteuil Co., 




Boating 

72 girls 5-8 

June 27-July 14 

Montreal, H3Z 1X3 

J0V 1J0 




Arts & Crafts 


July 18-August 14 

(514-931-2572) 

(819-242-6083) 




Nature Lore 


August 8-August 21 






Sports 


Sliding Scale 

B'NAI B'RITH INC. (1921) 

Mr. Jerry Kushner 

R.R. no.1 

X 

X 

R 

Canoeing 

250 boys 9-15 

Period: 4 weeks 

5151 Ct. Ste. Catherine 

Lantier, JOT 2C0 




Tripping 

250 girls 9-15 

June 26-August 20 

no: 203 

(819-326-4824) 




Arts & Crafts 


Sliding Scale 

Montreal, H3W 1M6 





Swimming 



(514-735-3669) 





Athletics 



BOY SCOUTS OF CANADA 

Mr. S.M. Sunborg 

Camping services 







2001 Trans-Canada Highway 

dept, providing 







Dorval 740 

year round camping 







(514-683-3004) 

services for boys, 
ages 8 to 17 







CHAPLEAU OF THE OLD 
BREWERY MISSION (1906) 

Rev. J.W. McCarthy 

R.R. no. 1 

X 

X 

c 

Swimming 

400 persons 

Period: 2 weeks 

P.O. Box 1445 

Montfort, JOT 1Y0 




Boating 

Children: 3 months 

July 3-August 21 

Montreal, H2Y 3K8 

(514-226-6591) 




Handicrafts 

to 14 years 

Sliding Scale 

(514-866-6591) 





Hiking 

with Mothers 







Canoeing 

(Age unlimited) 


CHEROKEE COUNTRY DAY CAMP 







AND VOYAGEURS (1972) 

Mr. William Roszler 

Lac Fournel 

X 

X 

c 

Sailing 

125 boys 4-14 

June 30-July 25 

Mr. James Allister 

St. Hippolyte 




Canoeing 

125 girls 4-14 

July 28-August 22 

3804 Harvard Ave. 

Quebec 




Swimming 


Sliding Scale 

Montreal, H4A 2W5 

(514-861-4046) 




Fine Arts 



(514-861-4046) 





Sports 



CLOUD'S HILL—COLLINE AUX NUAGES 
(1952) (International Language Camp) 







Mrs. A.S. Keator 

Lac Orignal 

X 

X 

c 

Language Camp 

50 boys 7-15 

July and August 

510Grosvenor Avenue 

Terrebonne Co. 




Waterfront 

50 girls 7-17 

$450.00/4 weeks 

Montreal, H3Y 2S4 

(816-326-0175) 




Mountain Climbing 


$850.00/8 weeks 

(514-937-4790) 





Film Making 


$225.00/2 weeks 






Riflery 


All inclusive 


74 





LL 

LL 

o 

LU 




OFFICE (WINTER) 

CAMP (SUMMER) 

< 

H 

c/> 

Q 

< 

u- nr_ 

w oc~o 

<_>■§ 8 
HID O w r- 

5 CAMP 


CL 

QC Z 

QlO 

ACTIVITIES 

ACCOMMODATION 

DEMETELIN (1960) 

Mr. & Mrs. N.D. Demetelin 

R.R. no. 1 

X 

X 

c 

French Convers. 

40 boys 6-10 

515 Rockland Road, TMR 

St. Donat, JOT 2C0 




Swimming 

40 girls 6-15 

Montreal, H3P 2X1 

(819-424-5590) 




Canoeing 

(514-527-9874) 





Riding (extra) 


(514-739-5263 





Arts & Crafts 


ELGIN GYM CAMP (1962) 

Mr. & Mrs. D.F. Cochrane 

St. Aubert 

X 

X 

c 

4-5 hrs. Gymnastics 

30 boys 8-16 

540 Rockhill Crescent 

L'lslet Co. 




Diving 

40 girls 8-16 

Beaurepaire, H9W 3G3 

(418-598-6844) 




Hiking 

(514-695-4267) 





Archery 

Swimming 


FRONTIER LODGE (1933) 

Mr. Joseph Kass 

R.R. no.2 


X 

c 

Bible Teaching 

70 boys 8-11 1 

245 Hymus Blvd. 

St. Hermenegilde 




Swimming 

70 girls 8-11 J 

Pointe Claire, H9R 1G6 

JOB 3E0 




Boating 

140 girls 11-16 - 

(514-695-5511) 

(514-844-2277) 




Handicrafts 

Camp Fires 

140 boys 11-16 - 

GREEN ACRES DAY CAMP 

(1966) 






Mr. Leon Hochglaube 

230 Ste. Marianne 

X 

X 

c 

Swimming 

200 boys 4-14 

Mr. Eddy Bogomolny 

Ste. Therese West 




Nature Lore 

200 girls 4-14 

5465 Queen Mary Road 

J7E4H5 




Sports 


Montreal, H3X 1V5 

(514-430-0081) 




Fine Arts 


(514-488-9148) 





Riding (extra) 


HIAWATHA (1932) 

Mr. & Mrs. B. Jacobson 

R.R. no.2 

X 

X 

R 

Tennis 

85 boys 5-16 

6595 Cote St. Luc Rd., 

Ste. Agathe des Monts 




Golf 

85 girls 5-16 

No. 203 

(819-326-0577) 




Ice Hockey 


Montreal, H4V 1G7 





All Aquatics 


(514-481-1690) 





All Land Sports 


JEWISH LAURENTIAN FRESH AIR CAMP 
(1927) (Golden Age Association) 






Mr. Isaac Katofsky 

St. Hippolyte 

X 

X 

C 

Art 

35 men 60+ 

Mrs. Ann Greenstein 

(514-563-3357) 




Swimming 

35 women 60+ 

5151 Ct. Ste. Catherine 





Dance 

Association 

Montreal, H3W 1M6 





Discussions 

Members 

(514-735-3669) 





Drama 


KANAWANA (1894) (YMCA) 






Derek V. Walsh 

P.O. Box 310 

X 

X 

C 

Tripping 

90 boys 8-15 

1441 Drummond St. 

St. Sauveur des 




Swimming 

90 girls 8-15 

Montreal, H3G 1W5 

Monts, Que. 




Sailing 


(514-849-5331) 

(514-227-2414) 




Arts & Crafts 

C.l.T. Program 



KENNEBEC (1967) 

Mr. Steve Hannon 

Arden South 

X 

X 

R 

Riding 

85 boys 7-16 

Mrs. E. Miechowsky 

Ontario 




Water Skiing 

90 girls 7-16 

6879 Holland Road 

(613-335-2114) 




Tripping 


Montreal, H4W 1 L5 





Tennis 


(514-486-5565) 





Archery 


KINKORA (1926) 

Mr. Wilfred Jackson 

St. Adolphe 

X 

X 

C 

Swimming 

470 Campers & 

1280 St. Marc St. 

de Howard, Que. 




Arts & Crafts 

Families 

Suite 203 

(819-327-2255) 




Music 


Montreal, H3H 2G1 





Liturgy 


(514-937-5351) 





Sports 


LEWIS (1918) 

Mr. Doug. Anakin 

St. Adolphe de 

X 

X 

R 

Phys. Education 

200 boys 6-14 

1390 Sherbrooke St. W. 

Howard, Que. 




Swimming 


Suite 36 

(819-327-2064) 




Boating 


Montreal, H3G 1J9 





Handicrafts 


(514-842-8261) 





Camp Fires 


LES VOYAGEURS DE LA VERENDRYE 






(YMCA) 

Derek V. Walsh 

c/o Kamp Kanawana 

X 



Wilderness 

15 boys 13-17 

1441 Drummond St. 

P.O. Box 310 




Canoe Trips 

5 girls 13-17 

Montreal, H3G 1W5 

St. Sauveur des Monts 




Fishing 


(514-849-5331) 

Quebec 

(514-227-2414) 




Campcraft 



SEASON/FEES 


June 24-August 12 
$ 100.00/week 


June 27-July 25 
June 27-August 25 
$340.00/4 weeks 
$680.00/Season 


June 30-July 13 
July 14-July 27 
July 28-August 10 
August 11-August 24 
$60.00/2 weeks plus 
$15.00 Registrn Fee 

June 24-August 15 
For fee schedule 
contact the camp 
office. 


June 24-August 18 
July & August 
8 Weeks 
Fee on request 


Period: 2 weeks 
June - August 
Sliding Scale 


June 25-July 9 
July 9-July 23 
July 23-August 6 
August 6-August 20 
$190.00/2 weeks 
$370.00/4 weeks 
$550.00/6 weeks 
$730.00/8 weeks 

June to August 
$975.00/Season 
$525.00/Month 


July and August 
Sliding Scale 


June 30-August 22 
$70.00 

5.00 Reg. Fee 


June 27-July 11 
July 15-July 29 
July 15-August 5 
August 2-August 16 
$225.00/2 weeks 
$300.00/3 weeks 


75 



Q 


OFFICE (WINTER) 


CAMP (SUMMER) 


<r lUD O « r 
Q DC Z Q £ O 


5 CAMP 
ACTIVITIES 


ACCOMMODATION 


CAMP LIGHTHALL 

Mr. Doug. Anakin 
1390 Sherbrooke St. W. 

Suite 36 

Montreal, H3G 1J9 
(514-842-8261) 

MARO MAC (1968) 

Syd & Esther Marovitch 
4548 - 8th Street 
Chomedey, Laval 
H7W 2A4 
(514-688-1753) 

MASSAD (1947) 

Mrs. Bernard Tonchin 
5609 Cork Ave. 

Montreal, H4W 1Z7 
(514-481-7233) 

MERE M.L. CLARAC (1957) 


St. Saveur des Monts 
Quebec 

(514-227-3781) 


Val des Lacs 
R.R. no. 1 
Terrebonne Co. 
JOT 2P0 
(819-326-4488) 

R.R. no. 1 
Lac Carre 
Quebec 

(819-326-4686) 


Phys. Education 
Swimming 
Boating 
Handicrafts 
Camp Fires 

Water-Skiing 

Sailing 

Tennis 

Arts & Crafts 

Spec. Phys. Ed. 

Arts & Crafts 
Hebrew Culture 
Sports 
Swimming 
Tripping 


150 girls 6-14 


100 boys 6-15 
100 girls 6-15 


85 boys 7-16 
85 girls 7-16 


Sr. Louise Beaulac 

St. Donat 

X 

X 

c 

Archery 

60 boys 4-10 

Sr. Elizabeth Mayer 

Montcalm Co. 




Athletics 

120 girls 4-16 

3530 Gouin Blvd. East 

JOT 2C0 




Canoeing 

Montreal, H1H 1B7 

(819-424-2261) 




Swimming 


(514-322-1161) 





Riding (extra) 


NATIONAL HOCKEY SCHOOL INC. - 
ECOLE DE HOCKEY NATIONALE INC. (1971) 






Mr. Steve Stotland 

MacDonald College 

X 

X 

c 

Hockey (Primarily) 

150 boys 7-16 

V. Cournoyer/J. Lemaire 

Ste. Annede Bellevue 




Hockey Seminars 


1700 Norman Street 

H9X 3M1 




Football 


Lachine, H8S 1A9 

(514-637-2394) 




Baseball 


(514-637-2394) 





Swimming 


NOMININGUE (1925) 

Mr. Peter Van Wagner 

Lac Nominingue 

X 

X 

R 

Canoe Trips 

290 boys 7-15 

482 Strathmore Blvd. 

Labelle Co. 




Sailing 

Dorval, H9S 2J4 

J0W 1R0 




Tennis 


(514-631-1501) 

(819-278-3383) 




Golf 

Water-Skiing 


NORTH/AM SUMMER HOCKEY SCHOOL (1968) 






Mr. Eddy Bogomolny 

230 Ste. Marianne 

X 

X 

c 

Full Size Ice Arena 

85 boys 6-16 — 

Mr. Leon Hochglaube 

Ste. Therese 




Mod. Accommods 

5465 Queen Mary Road 

J7E 4H5 




Olympic Pool 

120 boys 8-16 - 

Montreal, H3X 1V5 

(514-430-0081) 




Tennis Courts 

(514-488-9148) 





Camp Activities 


OOLAHWAN (1917) 

V.M.C.A. of Montreal 

Lac Masson, Terrebonne 

X 

X 

c 

Swimming 

120 girls 7-15 

1355 Dorchester Blvd. West, 

P.O. Box 138 




Arts 

Montreal, H3G 1T3 

Ste. Marguerite, 




Tripping 


(514-866-9941) 

JOT 1 L0 




Sports 



(514-228-3310) 




Canoeing 


ORELDA (Families) MARIAN (Girls) 






Mr. Wilfred Jackson 

St. Gabriel de Brandon 

X 

X 

c 

Swimming 

100 girls 8-15 

1280 St. Marc St. 

Co. Berthier, Que. 




Boating 

12 Adults 55+ 

Suite 203 

(514-835-4656) 




Arts & Crafts 

and 9 families 

Montreal, H3H 2G1 





Tripping 


(514-937-5351) 





Camp Craft 


OUAREAU (1922) 

Mrs. J.R. Allen 

R.R. no.1 

X 

X 

c 

Swimming 

100 girls 6-15 - 

26 Lome Avenue 

St. Donat, JOT 2C0 




Sailing 

100 girls 6-15 - 

Lennoxville, JIM 1C8 

(819-424-2662) 




Canoeing 

100 girls 6-15 - 

(819-562-9641) collect 

(Call Collect) 




Crafts 

Canoe Tripping 

100 girls 6-9 — 

PEMBINA (1947) 

Mrs. L. Morgenstern 

St. Donat 

X 

X 

R 

Water Sports 

130 boys 6-16 

Abe Rosen 

JOT 2C0 




Tripping 

130 girls 6-16 

3445 Ridgewood, no. 402 

(819-424-2565) 




Tennis 

Montreal, H3V 1B7 





Dramatics 


(514-733-0140) 





Arts & Crafts 


PERROT DAY CAMP (1948) (Y.M.C.A.) 






Mr. Paul Cappelli 

2467 lie Perrot Blvd. 

X 

X 

c 

Swimming 

410 boys 4-12 

170 St. Louis Ave. 

Me Perrot, Que. 




Gymnastics 

291 girls 4-12 

Pointe Claire, Que. 

(514-453-3348) 




Archery 


H9R 2A8 
(514-695-9561) 


Games 

Arts & Crafts 


SEASON/FEES 


June 30-August 22 
$70.00 

5.00 Reg. Fee 


Period: 8 weeks 

$975.00 

All Inclusive 


July 7-August 18 
Fees on request 


June 28-August 16 
$95.00/Week 
+ $15.00 Reg. Fee 


Nine 1-week sessions 
June 29-August 30 
$160.00/Week 


June 26-August 20 
Periods: 4 weeks 
6 weeks 
8 weeks 

$450/4W - $650/6W 
$815/8W 


To be determined — 
$75/W (Day Program) 
To be determined — 
$125/W (Resident 
Program) 

Periods: 2 weeks 
June 29-August 9 
$140.00/2 weeks 


Period: 16 days 
July - August 
Sliding Scale 


June 26-July 24 $400 
July 25-Aug. 22 $350 
June 26-Aug. 22 $695 
Two weeks in Aug. — 
$195.00 


July 2-August 13 
$700.00/Season 


July 7-August 8 
Fees on Request 


76 



LL 

< 


cr^o 


s S-esi 


OFFICE (WINTER) 


CAMP (SUMMER) 


OCE b-S S 

LUD O */> c 
CCZ Q £ o 


5 CAMP 
ACTIVITIES 


ACCOMMODATION 


SEASON/FEES 


PINE ROSE (1973) 

Mrs. Elsa Moller 
4850 Cote St. Luc 
no. 310 
Montreal, Que. 

(514-489-0714) 

PINE VALLEY CAMP (1949) 


P.O. Box 66 
Morin Heights 
Co. Mille lies, Que. 
(514-226-2109) 


Swimming 
Water Skiing 
Tennis 
Sailing 
Archery 


12 boys 7-14 
20 girls 7-15 


June 29-August 25 
$350.00/4 weeks 
$600.00/8 weeks 


Mr. Robert Lazanik 
5165 Sherbrooke St. W. 
Suite 316 

Montreal, H4A 1T6 
(514-489-8722) 


Ste. Agathe des Monts 
J8C 3A1 
(819-326-2939) 


QUEBEC LODGE CAMP (1943) 


Rev. Tom Tobinson 
2687 Quatre Bourgeois 
Quebec, G1V 1X3 
(418-653-9432) 


R.R. no.3 
Ayers Cliff 
Stanstead Co. 
JOB ICO 
(819-842-2286) 


Water Skiing 

120 

boys 7-16 

June 25-August 20 

Canoeing 

120 

girls 7-16 

$975.00/Season 

Arts & Crafts 




All Land Sports 




^Hockey School - 

— 100 

boys 8-16 - 

- Aug. 4-Aug. 31 1 
$ 160.00/Week J 

Swimming 

70 

girls 8-16 

June 29-July 12 

Canoeing 

35 

boys 8-16 - 

July 13-July 26 

Sailing 

35 

girls 8-16 

July 13-July 26 

Crafts 

70 

boys 8-16 - 

July 27-August 9 

Archery 



$95.00 per period — 


Deduction of $25.00 for more than one 
child and for one camper attending two 
camps 


ROBINSON (1958) 

Mrs. Margaret Robert Chemin Guay 

6280 Northcrest Place St. Donat 

Apt. 918 J0T2C0 

Montreal, H3S 2N1 (819-424-2536) 

(514-731-2478) 

SANS SOUCI RIDING CENTRE (1970) 

Kathy & Fred Kroos Ste. Clothilde 

Anne & Wolfgang Schinke (Chateauguay Co.) 

Ste. Clothilde, J0L 1W0 J0L 1W0 

(Chateauguay Co.) (514-826-3503/3208) 

(514-826-3503/3208) 

SHALOM DAY CAMP (1974) 


X - 


Water & Land Sports 

Tripping 

Tennis 

Ice Hockey 


Horsemanship Courses 
all residence 
(also day camp) 


75 boys 5-16 
75 girls 5-16 


15 boys 10-18 
40 girls 10-18 


June 27-August 21 
Period: 4 Weeks 
$475.00/4 weeks 
$875.00/8 weeks 


May/June/July/ 
Aug/Sept 
$125.00/Week 
$75.00/Week (Day 
Camp) 


Mrs. Shirley Jackson 

Shaar Shalom Synagogue X 

c 

c 

Intensive Swim 

75 boys 3-12 

June 30-July 25 

4790 Notre Dame 

4880 Notre Dame 




Instruction 

75 girls 3-12 

July 28-August 22 

Chomeday, Laval, Que. 

Chomedey, Laval, Que. 




Sports 

$115.00/Month 

(514-681-9917) 

(514-688-8100) 




Arts & Crafts 

Nature Lore 



TRAIL'S END (1949) 

Mr. Wilf Jackson 

Ste. Beatrix 

X 

X 

c 

Swimming 

172 boys 8-15 

July - August 

1280 St. Marc St. 

Co. Joliette, Que. 




Sports 

Period: 16 days 

Suite 203 

(514-883-6171) 




Canoeing 


Sliding Scale 

Montreal, H3H 2G1 





Outpost 


(514-937-5351) 





Arts & Crafts 



WA-THIK-ANE (1926) (Girl Guides of Canada) 







Mrs. R.P. Rennie 

R.R. no. 1 

X 

X 

c 

Swimming 

300 girls 7-18 

June 21-August 16 

1939 Maisonneuve Blvd. 

Morin Heights, J0R 1H0 




Canoeing 

Variable 

W. Montreal, H3H 1K3 

(514-226-9926) 




Hiking 



(514-933-5839) 





Wilderness 

Guide Programme 



WEREDALE (1933) (For Boys of Weredale House only) 






Mr. Brian Adams, M.S.W. 

Lac L'Achigan 

X 

X 

c 

Swimming 

150 boys 10-17 

July and August 

Weredale House 

St. Hippolyte 




Canoeing/Sailing 


No charge 

6 Weredale Park 

(514-563-3302) 




Arts & Crafts 


Montreal, H3Z 1Y6 





Archery 



(514-935-7417) 





Sports 



WILVAKEN INC. (1958) 

Dr. & Mrs. K.R. Willis 

R.R. no. 1 

X 

X 

c 

Sailing 

45 boys 8-16 

June 27-August 23 

R.R. no. 1 

Magog, J1X 3W2 




Water Skiing (extra) 

52 girls 8-16 

Period: 

Magog, Que. 

(819-843-5353) 




Riding (extra) 


2 Weeks $215.00 

J1X 3W2 





Arts & Crafts 


4 Weeks $400.00 

(819-843-5353) 





Tennis 


6 Weeks $564.00 
Season $725.00 

WOODEN ACRES (Jewish 

Community Camps) 







Mr. Herb Finkelberg 

St. Adolphe d'Howard 

X 

X 

R 

Sports 

122 boys 9-16 

June to August 

5151 Ct. Ste. Catherine 

Argenteuil Co. 




Drama 

127 girls 9-16 

Two 4-week periods 

no. 203 

JOT 2B0 




Arts & Crafts 

Sliding Scale 

Montreal, H3W 1M6 

(819-327-2844) 




Photography 


(514-735-3669) 





Jewish culture 




77 




OFFICE (WINTER) CAMP (SUMMER) 


LL 

LL 

< 

H 

co 

g 

< 

CL 


C3CC O*g c 
lljD O t 
QC2 Q £ < 


5 CAMP 
ACTIVITIES 


ACCOMMODATION SEASON/FEES 


YM-YWHA COUNTRY CAMP (1963) (Y Camping Services) 




Mr. Joe Friedman 

Huberdeau XX R 

Sports 

200 boys 9-16 

June to August 

5500 Westbury Avenue 

Argenteuil Co. 

T ripping 

200 girls 9-16 

Two 4-week periods 

Montreal, H3W 2W8 

JOT 1G0 

Nature 


$420.00/Month 

(514-737-6551 Loc. 33) 

(819-687-3271) 

Jewish culture 
Cultural Arts 



YM-YWHA DAY CAMPS (1930) (Y Camping Services) 




Mr. Irving Perlman 

550 Westbury Avenue X — 

Outdoor Games 

375 boys 4-13 

June 30-August 22 

5500 Westbury Avenue 

Montreal, H3W 2W8 

Campcraft 

375 girls 4-13 

Two 4-week periods 

Montreal, H3W 2W8 

(514-737-6551) 

Cultural Activities 


$110.00/Month 

(514-737-6551) 


Media 

Sports 




SPECIALIZED CAMPS 

To assist people who are looking for a specialized camp, we take pleasure in listing the following camps. 

In general, these camps are bilingual 


CAROWANIS (1958) 

(Quebec Camp for Diabetic Children Inc.) 


Mr. Walter Mingie, Mgr. 

P.O. Box 280 

X 

X 

R 

Swimming 

50 boys 8-15 

July 5-July 26 

Mrs. Norma Grant, Sec. 

Ste. Agathe 




Hebertisme 

50 girls 8-15 

July 26-August 16 

4845 Sherbrooke St. W. 

J8C 3A3 




Artisanat 


Sliding Scale 

Montreal, H3Z 1G6 

(819-326-2456) 




Canoeing 



(514-932-4768) 





Tennis 



CENTRE DE VACANCES DE (.’ASSOCIATION 
DE PARALYSIE CEREBRALE (1949) 







Mr. Jacques Corbeil 

490 Lacolle 

X 

X 

C 

Sports 

18 boys 18-40 

Period: 27 Days 

3015 Sherbrooke St. W. 

Cantic 




Trips 

18 girls 18-40 

Sliding Scale 

No. 217 

St. Jean Co. 




Tripping 


Plus $5.00 Reg. Fee 

Montreal, H3Z 1A1 

(514-246-3554) 




Evenings 



(514-937-9143) 





Arts 



CENTRE DE PLAIN AIR LA CALECHE (1969) 







Mr. Rene Rousseau 

125, Tour du Lac 

X 

X 

C 


For the Children of the Institution only 

125, Tour du Lac 

Ste. Agathe, Que. 







Ste. Agathe, Que. 
(819-326-3753) 

(819-326-3753) 







CENTRES MARRONNIERS INC. (1970) 







Mr. Roger Roy, Gen. Mgr. 

30 Old Mill Road 

X 

X 

C 

Socio-Cult. Act. 

30 boys 18-30 

June 1 -August 31 

Mr. Michel Ladouceur 

Pointe Claire 




Swimming act. 


Sliding Scale 

5695 Ave. des Marronniers 

lie Perrot 




Arts & Crafts 



Montreal, HIT 2W3 

(514-453-4187) 




Sports 



(514-255-4026) 

DOMAINE DESCIMES 





Outdoor Education 



Miss Margaret Porter 

Ste. Anne Hospital 

X 

X 

C 


For the Children of the Ste. Anne Hospital 

Ste. Anne Hospital 

St. Paul Bay 







St. Paul Bay 

Charlevoix Co. 







Charlevoix Co. 

(418-435-2005) 

(418-435-2005) 







DOMAINE DES PRES 








CRIPPLED CHILDREN (1938) 

(Quebec Society for Crippled Children) 







Mr. Yves Beauregard 

St. Alphonse de 

X 

R 

R 

Swimming 

25 boys 21-45 “ 

June 6-June 20 

1455, Rochon St. 

Rodriguez 




Canoeing/Sailing 

25 girls 21-45 . 

Montreal, H4L 1W1 

Joliette Co. 




Camping 

20 boys 2-6 

June 27-July 25 

(514-748-8816) 

(514-883-9915) 




Archery 

Arts & Crafts 

20 girls 2-6 

105 boys 13-21 
105 girls 13-21 - 

125 boys 2-12 ' 

125 girls 2-12 J 

July 29-August 22 







Sliding Scale plus 
$10.00 Reg. Fee 


GATINEAU (1970) 

Mr. Michel Charbonneau 

Ste. Cecile de Masham 

X 

X 

C 

Swimming 

225 boys 8-30 

June 29-July 18 

Ste. Cecile de Masham 

Pontiac Co. 




Soft Ball 

225 girls 8-30 

July 20-August 8 

Pontiac Co. 

(819-456-2002) 




Camping 


August 10-August 29 

(819-456-2002) 





Crafts 

Hebertisme 


Sliding Scale 


78 








LL 

Ll_ 

o 

LL) 





OFFICE (WINTER) 


< 

1— 

CO 

Q 

< 

HI 

2% 

occ 

IDD 

cn—o 
Pc — 
o-S S 

O ’«/> r- 

5 CAMP 



CAMP (SUMMER) 

CL 

OCZ 

QSo 

ACTIVITIES 

ACCOMMODATION 

SEASON/FEES 

MASSAWIPPI (1951) 








(Mackay Center for Deaf and Crippled Children) 







Mr. A.H. Marden, Pres. 

Ayer's Cliff 

X 

X 

c 

Hobbycraft 

50 boys 7-17 

Period: 6 weeks 

Mr. H. Yates 

(819-838-4707) 




Canoeing 

50 girls 7-17 

July and August 

3500 Decarie Blvd. 





Archery 


No Charge Students 

Montreal, H4A 3J5 





Tripping 


of Mackay. 

(514-482-0500) 





Volleyball 


Others: $10.00 

RICHELIEU (1970) 

Sr. Marie-Therese Cote 

550 St. Louis sur le Lac 

X 

X 

c 

Swimming 

30 boys 6-12 

July and August 

Pavilion des Jeunes 

Lac St. Joseph 




Hebertisme 

50 girls 6-17 

Reserved — no charge 

St. Damien 

Portneuf Co. 




Nature Craft 

Bellechasse Co. G0R 2Y0 

(418-875-2293) 




Nature Lore 



(418-789-2085) 





Archery 



TERRE DES JEUNES STE. JULIENNE (1971) 







Mr. Justin Bournival 

2973 Rang du Cordon 

X 

X 

c 

Camping 

35 boys 6 plus 

June 22-July 11 

Mrs. Carmen S. Bournival 

Ste. Julienne, Que. 




Tripping 

35 girls 6 plus 

July 13-August 1 

1086 J.J. Joubert 

(514-831-2147) 




Swimming 


August 3-August 22 

Laval, Que. 





Riding 


$50.00/Week plus 

(514-667-6595) 





Hobbycraft 


$5.00 Reg. Fee 

VILLA NOTRE-DAME DE FATIMA (1948) 







Mr. Abbe Paul Leboeuf 

R.R. no.1 

X 

— 

c 

Crafts 

16 boys 5-8 1 

Two 2-week periods 

Mr. Abbe Gerard Hebert 

Les Chenaux 




Swimming 

16 girls 5-15 J 


3747 St. Denis St. 

Vaudreuil, Que. 




Water Skiing 

32 girls 5-15 — 

Two 2-week periods 

Montreal, H2X 3L8 

J7V 5V5 




Bicycle 


Reserved for deaf 

(514-849-6109) 

(514-455-3838) 




Hebertisme 


children plus $5.00 
Reg. Fee 


So/kcitchewan Camping A//ociation 

"The voice of Saskatchewan Camping " 

P.0. Box 823 
Regina, Saskatchewan 


President: 

Marg Pezderic 

64, 1302 Windsor Street 

Saskatoon, Sask. S7K 0Z2 

Vice President: 

LaVerne Jantz 
Box 83, Drake, Sask. 

Corresponding Secretary: 

Joy MacKenzie 
7, 419 Lome St. North 
Regina, Sask. 

Recording Secretary: 

Doris M. Grassie 
1534 Garnet Street 
Regina, Sask. S4T 2Y7 

Treasurer: 

Al Knox 

Box Q335, Sub P.O. 6 
Saskatoon, Sask. S7N 0W0 

Past President: 

Linda Palin 

Box 558, Lumby, B.C. 


BOARD OF DIRECTORS 

Board Members: 

Max Abraham 

209 Waterloo Crescent 

Saskatoon, Sask. 

Graham Boyd 

42, 1302 Windsor Street 

Saskatoon, Sask. S7K 0Z2 

Doug Conway 

1860 Lome Street, Regina, Sask. 

Norm Klassen 
Caronport, Sask. 

Jan Korven 

Box A329, Sub P.O. 6 

Saskatoon, Sask. S7N 0W0 

Jack MacKenzie 

307, 2720 College Avenue 

Regina, Sask. 

Eileen Mayotte 

87 Coldwell Road, Regina, Sask. 

Doug Porteous 
Caroline Robbins School 
Saskatoon, Sask. 


Board Members (cont'd) 
Gerry Rodier 
2610 7th East 
Saskatoon, Sask. 

John Vogt 

1261 97 St. North 

North Battleford, Sask. 



79 







Eileen Mayotte 


Jack MacKenzie 


PAST PRESIDENTS 

Don Pringle 


Michael Pezderic 


Linda Palin 


THE SCA-WHAT IS IT? 

The Saskatchewan Camping Association is a non profit organization made up of people interested in the promotion of 
camping in the province. 

The objectives are: 

1) to promote camping as an education character building and recreational experience 

2) to act as a co-ordinating body for camping throughout Saskatchewan 

3) to develop and encourage high standards in camping 

4) to study, interpret and spread knowledge of regulations or developments of concern to camping 


A PHILOSOPHY OF CAMP ACCREDITATION 

The Saskatchewan Camping Association is interested in the promotion of better camping for campers in this province. 

Camp Committees, directors and staff continually strive to better their camps, their program and their operation. Camps can 
be helped by being a member of the Saskatchewan Camping Association. 

Camp Accreditation is not an inspection, and the visitation does not grade or evaluate a camp. The purpose is that the Camp 
Committee and director can check his own operation, principles and procedures and decide how the camp can be improved. 
By having a SCA visitor go through each section of the Accreditation with someone from the camp or committee, camp 
practices will be clarified. 

Saskatchewan has many different kinds of camps and camp sites are different, and these differences must be maintained. 
Accreditation does not mean standardization. SCA must have Standards that are mandatory as these are legislation and there¬ 
fore law. On the other hand, desirable practices create levels in camping that each camp aims for whereby the desirable 
practices are maintained and undesirable practices in camping are discarded. 


Arlington Beach Camp 

Can-Ta-Ka-Ye 

Capernaum 

Christopher Lake Baptist 
Bible Camp 
Cyprus Bible Camp 
Camp Easter Seal 
Camp Gilwell 
Glad Tidings Bible Camp 
John Bosco Camp 
Katepwa Baptist Kamp 


INDEX OF CAMPS 

Kenosee Boys and Girls Camp 
Camp Kesuk 

Kiwanis Girl Guide Camp 
Camp Lemieux 
Lumsden Camp 
Luseland Bible Camp 
Camp McKay 
Madge Lake Bible Camp 
Manitou Lake Bible Camp 
Mennonite Youth Farm Bible C 
Camp Monahan 


Ranger Lake Bible Camp 
Regina Conference Lutheran 
Bible Camp 
Camp Shagabec 
Stoney Lake Bible Camp 
Tapawingo 
Camp Ta-Wa-Si 
Th underbird 
Torch Trail Bible Camp 
Camp Wakonda 
Camp Woodboia 



80 







KEY re: CAMP FACILITIES 

A. ENVIRONMENT FOR OUTDOOR EDUCATION 
PROGRAMS 

1 Lake 

2 River or Creek 

3 Not near Water 

B. TERRAIN INCLUDES 

1 Forest coniferous 

2 Forest deciduous 

3 Brush and shrub 

4 Fields 

5 Grasslands 

6 Gravel Pits 

7 Hills 

8 Mountains 

Waterfront: 

9 Beach 

10 Pool 

11 Public Beach 

12 Miles to nearest Provincial Park 

C. FEATURES NEAR CAMPSITE (i.e. less than 2 miles) 

1 Beach 

2 Ponds 

3 Marshes and Bogs 

4 Farms 

5 Trails 

6 Creeks 

7 Historical Sites 

8 Overnight Campsites 

9 Other interesting features 

D. SERVICES 

1 Method of transportation to site from nearest large 
centre 

2 Name centre 

3 Distance 

4 Roads (accessibility) 

a) summer 

b) winter 

5 Is camp winterized? 

a) all 

b) part 

6 Miles to nearest doctor 

7 Miles to nearest hospital 

8 Miles to nearest food supply centre 

9 Telephone on campsite 
10 Number 

E. FACILITIES AVAILABLE (Accommodation) 

1 Sleeping space for campers 

a) summer 

b) winter 

2 Sleeping space for staff 

a) summer 

b) winter 

3 Eating space 

4 Indoor program space 

5 Infirmary 

6 Dormitory or tents 

7 Beds provided (number) 

8 Mattresses provided 

9 Washroom facilities: 

a) co-ed 

b) boys 

c) girls 

10 Type 

11 List other facilities (craft shop, pool, etc.) 

F. EQUIPMENT AVAILABLE 

1 Patrol boat 

2 Canoes 

3 Lifejackets 

4 Archery 

5 Sail boats 

6 Other 

G. STAFF (could any of the following be provided?) 

1 Caretaker 

2 Kitchen staff 

3 Nurse 

4 Program staff 

H. RENTAL — Basic daily rental fee per person 

I. Contact person 

J. Position 

K. City Address 

L. City phone 


MEMBER CAMPS 


ARLINGTON BEACH CAMP 


Location: 
Used by: 
Address: 


Cymric, Sask. (on Last Mountain Lake) 
CSSM (rents camp from Free Methodists) 


Summer Winter 

Arlington Camp Bob Downey 

c/o CSSM, Cymric, Sask. Elstow, Sask. 

Phone: 484-4460 
Director or Ernie Dyck 

Committee 71 Osborne Crescent 

Chairman: Regina, Sask. 

Capacify: Campers 100; Staff 20 

Length of Rented from July 23 - August 12, 1973 

Camping Season: 

Camping Dates: July and August 

Objectives: A Christ-centered program, geared to contribute to 

the total development of the camper. 


CAN-TA-KA-YE 


Location: 

Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 
Used by: 
Sponsor or 
Owner: 

Director or 
Com. Chairman. 
Capacity: 


Length of 
Camping Season. 
Camping Dates: 
Rental: 
Objectives: 


Facilities: 


Birsay, Sask. (9 miles S.E.) 

40 (leased) Adjacent land available 
Resident lodge and tents — semi-wilderness 
Girl Guides of Saskatchewan 
Sask. Council Girl Guides of Canada 
3501 Dewdney Avenue, Regina, Sask. 

Phone: 527-4102 
Mrs. R. Knowles 

3044 — 25th Avenue, Regina, Sask. 

Campers 100+; Staff 9 (paid) 

Volunteers: 1-8 campers 
1-5 brownies 

.July 1 - August 30 

July and August (all girls) 

Available for rent in June or September. 

To provide camping facilities to carry out the camp¬ 
ing activities of the organization which is an integral 
part of the Girl Guides' program. 


A. 1 

B. 2, 3,4, 5, 7,9, 12 (25) 

C. 1,4, 5, 7, 8, 9 (Hitchcock Cabin, Pioneer Church on adjacent land) 

D. 1-(car or bus); 2-Saskatoon; 3-90; 4-a, b; 5-b; 6-15; 7-15; 8-9 miles 

E. 1a-(64) lodge, (100) tents; lb-64; 2a-12; 2b-12; 3-100; 4-100; 
5-separate bathroom; 6-both; 7, 8, 9a; 11-walk in fridge, staff room 
freezer, gas stove, hot & cold water, heated building, 3 outdoor 
cook shelters 

F. 1-6; 2-6; 3 

G. 1 

H. $3 

I. Mrs. R. Knowles 

J. Prov. Camp Commissioner 

K. 3044 25th Avenue, Regina 

L. 527-4102 


ACCREDITED MEMBER OF SCA 


CAPERNAUM (Moose Jaw Presbytery) 


Location: 

Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 
Sponsor or 
Owner: 
Address: 


Director or 
Com. Chairman: 
Capacity: 

Length of 
Camping Season. 
Rental: 
Objectives: 


Buffalo Pound Lake 
250 (owned) 

Resident — tents 

Moose Jaw United Presbytery 

(Winter and Summer) 

Box 56, Moose Jaw, Sask. 

Phone: 693-1051 
J. Livingston 

206 Elsom Street E., Moose Jaw, Sask. 

Campers 100; Staff 14 

June 1 - August 31 
Available for rent 

To provide an opportunity for Christian develop¬ 
ment through outdoor education. 


Facilities: 

A. 1 

B. 3,4, 6, 7, 9, 12(4) 

C. 1, 7 

D. 1-Car; 2-Moose Jaw; 3-36 miles; 4a-good; 4b-poor; 5b; 6-36; 7-36; 
8-36 

E. la-50; lb-20; 2a-16; 2b-8; 3-100; 4-100'x30'; 6-7 wall; 7-20; 8-50; 
9a; 11-sports 

F. 2-8,3-40,5-1 

G. 1,4 

I. W. Taylor 

J. Camp Board Director 

K. 1133 Chestnut Avenue, Moose Jaw 

L. 692-1088 


81 



CHRISTOPHER LAKE BAPTIST BIBLE CAMP 

Location: 2.3 miles north of Highway 263, on Anglin Lake 

Road, on Lake Christopher 
Acreage: 24 acres, owned 

Type of Camp: Resident — cabins 

Used by: Affiliated churches of the Baptist Union of Western 

Canada and renters 


Sponsor or 
Owner: 

Director or 
Com. Chairman: 
Capacity: 
Length of 
Season: 
Objectives: 

Facilities: 


Baptist Union of Western Canada 

Rev. S.H. Cassells 
Box 264, Asquith, Sask. 

Campers 60; Staff 20 

May 24 - September 1 

To provide a Christian residential camping experi¬ 
ence and a base for wilderness camping. 


A. 1 

B. 1, 2,9, 12 (2.3 miles) 

C. 1, 3, 5, 6, 8, 9 Beaver lodge 

D. l-(car); 2-Prince Albert; 3-30 miles; 4-a; 6-(30); 7-(30); 8-(2) 

E. 1a-(60); 2a-(20); 3-(80); 4-(1200 sw. ft.); 5; 6-(5); 7-(80); 8-(80); 
9a; 11-dock. 

F. 1-( 1); 2 (5); 3-(20); 4-(3 sets); 6-(3 paddle boats, 4 paddle boards, 
1 fishing boat). 

H. $1 per camper day — $40 minimum 

I. Rev. S.H. Cassells 

J. Camp Board Chairman 

K. Box 264, Asquith, Sask. 

L. 329-4316 


CYPRUS BIBLE CAMP 


Cyprus Park, Sask. 

Approximately 2 acres 
Resident — cabins 
Children and Adults 

Canadian Sunday School Missions 

Caronport, Sask. 

Elmer Ebel (chairman) 

23 Valley View Drive, Medicine Hat, Alta. 
Campers 60; Staff 10 

6 weeks 


Location: 

Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 

Used by: 

Sponsor or 
Owner: 

Address: 

Director or 
Com. Chairman 
Capacity: 

Length of 
Camping Season: 

Camping Dates: July and August 
Rental: Available for Rent. 

Objectives: To give children a better insight of God's great uni¬ 

verse and God's truth taught in Scripture; also 
training in various skills and camping; canoeing, 
archery, craft, sports, swim, cooking, nature trails. 

Facilities: 

A. 3 

B. 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 9, 10, 12 (within park boundary) 

C. 1,2, 3, 6, 7,8,9 

D. l-(car); 2-(Maple Creek); 3-(18 miles); 4a; 6-(18 miles); 8-(Maple 
Creek) 

E. 1a-(60); 2a-(10); 3-(70); 4; 5; 6-(dorms); 7; 8; 11-(pool in park) 

F. 2-(2); 3-(6) 

H. $35/day 

I. E. Ebel, Chairman, OR Miss Marh Aslin. Secretary, 

23 Valley View Drive Box 1266, Shaunavon, Sask. 

Medicine Hat, Alta. Phone: 297-2849 


CAMP EASTER SEAL 


Location: 

Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 
Used by: 

Sponsor: 

Address: 


Director: 

Capacity: 
Length of 
Camping Season 
Camping Dates: 
Rental: 
Objectives: 


Watrous, Sask. (Manitou Beach) 

Leased + 20 acres adjacent land 
Resident — cabins 

Physically and mentally handicapped adults and 
children 

Council for Crippled Children and 


Saskatchewan 
Adults 
Summer 

Watrous, Sask. (R.R.1) 

Box 18 

Phone: 946-3373 
Tom Spence 

1410 Kilburn Ave., Saskatoon 
Campers 130; Staff 70 

3 months 

July and August 
Available for Rent 
Summer recreational program 
adults, teens and children. 


Winter 

1410 Kilburn Avenue 
Saskatoon, Sask. 
Phone: 653-1694 


for handicapped 


Facilities: 

A. 1 

B. 3,4, 5, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12-(40) 

C. 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9-(salt water) 

D. 1-Bunny Bus (CNR); 2-(Saskatoon); 3-(70 miles); 4a; 4b; 5b; 
6-(3); 7-(3); 8-(3); 9; 10-046-3373) (946-3374) 4 

E. 1a-(100); 2a-(75); 3-(200); 5; 6-(cabins); 7; 8; 9a; 11-(craft shop, 
pool, riding, sports, waterfront, rustic camps) 

F. 1,2, 3, 4, 6-(horses, social recreation, photography) 

G. 1,2, 4, 3 

H. To be arranged 

I. Tom Spence 

J. Camp Director 

K. 1410 Kilburn Avenue, Saskatoon, Sask. 

L. 653-1694 


CAMP GILWELL 


Location: 

Area: 

Type: 


Sponsored by: 
Address: 

Director or 
Com. Chairman. 
Capacity: 

Camp for: 

Dates Open: 
Fees: 

Rental: 


Objectives: 


North shore Mission Lake, two miles west of Lebret 
Approximately 30-40 acres 

Residence — tent. One main lodge for dining and 
first aid rooms and separate residence for camp 
warden. Tent site areas for sleeping. 

Boy Scouts of Canada, Regina Region 
Winter and Summer 
1530 Broadway Avenue, Regina 
S.R. Breen (Executive Director) 

1530 Broadway Avenue, Regina, Sask. 

40 campers plus leaders 

Cubs, Scouts. Registered groups in Saskatchewan 

with Boy Scouts of Canada 

May, June, July, August 

50d per person per day (night) 

Available for rent to Scout groups. No decision has 
yet been entertained for general rental (out of 
season) to non-member groups. 

As per our National Handbook, Boy Scouts of 
Canada. 


GLAD TIDINGS BIBLE CAMP 


Location: 

Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 
Used by: 
Sponsor or 
Owner: 
Address: 


Director or 
Com. Chairman: 
Capacity: 
Length of 
Camping Season 
Camping Dates: 
Rental: 

Objectives: 


8 miles north of Mazenod, Sask. 

Owned 

Resident — cabins 
Adults and children 

Canadian Sunday School Missions 

Summer and winter 
Caronport, Sask. 

Phone: 756-2300 
Ron Silvester 
Ernfold, Sask. 

Campers 50; Staff 10 

, 2 months 
July 

May be available for rent. Rates are presently being 
discussed; no final decision as yet. 

Spiritually speaking — to make Christ known to 
every camper and promote Christian growth. 
Physically speaking — to provide good wholesome 
activity: to teach togetherness and respect for 
others. 


Facilities: 

A. 1 (man made dam) 

B. 1,2, 3,4,5, 9, 10, 11, 12-(80) 

C. 3, 4, 5,6 

D. 4a, 4b, 6-(25 miles), 7-(Gravelbourg), 8-(Mossbank) 

E. 1a-(50); 2a-(10); 3; 4; 6 (3 dorms - 6 cabins); 7; 8; 11-(pool, ball 
diamond. Volleyball) 

F. 2-(2); 3; 4-(5 bows); 6-(horse shoe, volleyball, tether ball 

H. Presently being discussed 

I. Ron Silvester 

J. Chairman 

K. Ernfold, Sask. 

L. 629-3919 


JOHN BOSCO CAMP 


Location: 
Area: 
Type: 
Used by: 
Sponsor: 


Director: 

Capacity: 


Z N Lake, Hanson Lake Road Mile 40 
28 acres leased, adjacent land available 
Tents, wilderness 
9 years and up 

Summer Winter 

St. John Bosco Camp Ltd. Box 36, Arborfield, 
Box 217, Smeaton, Sask. Saskatchewan 
Radio XOZ 986 Phone: 769-8691 

John Boutin 

Box 36, Carrot River, Sask. 

Campers 150; Staff 50 


82 


. 3 months 


Length of 
Camping Season:" 

A vail able fo r ren t: N o 
A vailable for hire: Yes 


Facilities: 

A. 1 

B. 1, 2, 3, 4, 12-(in Nipawin Prov. Park) 

C. 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7-(Shannon Lake and Calder), 8, 9-(available virgin 
land) (esker) 

D. l-(car); 2-(Smeaton); 3-(40); 4a; 4b; 6-(80); 7-(80); 8-(80); 9; 

10-(radio XOZ 986) 

E. 1 a-( 150); 2a-(34); 3-(200); 4-(200); 5; 6-(tents); 7-(34); 8-(34); 
9a; 11-(Nature lore shelter, chapel, fire arm bldg., rec. hall, power 
plant) 

F. 1 -(1); 2-CIO); 3-(27); 4; 6-(sports, outtrip) 

G. 1, 2, 3,4 

I. John Boutin 

J. Box 36, Carrot River 

K. 768-2477 

ACCREDITED MEMBER OF SCA 


KATEPWA BAPTIST KAMP 


Location: 

Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 
Used by: 

Sponsor or 
Owner: 

Director or 
Com. Chairman: 
Capacity: 
Camping Dates: 
Rental: 
Objectives: 


Facilities: 


VA miles S.E. of Lebret 

96 owned, adjacent land available for camp use. 
Day; Resident — cabins. Lodge facility 
Church and school groups, scouts, cadets. Outdoor 
education year round. 

Baptist Union of Western Canada 
4404, 16 St. S.W., Calgary, Alta. 

Phone: 243-6880 
L. Cheveldayoff 

163 Hammond Road, Regina, Sask. 

Campers 86; Staff 56 
All year 

Available for Rent. Inquire re rates. 

Bring into focus God's relationship and claims 
through Jesus Christ on each individual's total 
make up; physical, emotional, mental and spiritual. 


A. 1 

B. 2, 3,4,5, 6, 7,9, 12-(5) 

C. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9-(lndian Head Tree Farm) 

D. l-(bus); 2-(Fort Qu'Appelle); 3-(5 miles); 4a; 4b; 5b; 6-(5 miles); 
7 (5 miles); 8-(1%) 

E. la-(86); 1b-(50); 2a-(56); 2b-(2); 3-(summer 120, winter 60); 4; 
6-(dorm); 7; 8; 9-(lodge - indoor plumbing and showers); 
10-(332-4727); 11-(Craft shop and trailer spots) 

F. 1; 2-(5); 3; 4; 6-(mini golf course, outdoor sports, orienteering 
course) 

G. 1 

H. $18 + 65d per person per day 

I. Bob Bruce 

J. Camp Custodian 

K. 1278 Robinson Street, Regina, Sask. 

L. 527-4950 


KENOSEE BOYS AND GIRLS CAMP 


Location: 

Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 
Used by: 
Sponsor: 
Owner: 
Address: 


Director: 

Capacity: 
Length of 
Camping Season 
Camping Dates: 
Rental: 

Rates: 

Objectives: 

Facilities: 

A. 1 


Winter 

Box 9, Moosomin, Sask. 
Phone: 435-2993 


Moose Mountain Provincial Park 

3 acres — leased 

Resident — cabins; semi-wilderness 
Boys and girls separately; also Family Groups 
Knights of Columbus 
Archdiocese of Regina 
Summer 
Carlyle, Sask. 

Phone: 453-6051 (chalet) 

Rev. Louis E. Kubash 
Box 9, Moosomin, Sask. 

Campers 72; Staff 11 

4 weeks regular 

5 weeks family 
July and August 
Partially available for rent 
Negotiable, but average $50/week 

Life in the wilderness in order to return to nature's 
peace and God's creation. 


B. 2, 3,9, 12-(Prov. Park) 

C. 2, 3, 5, 7, 8-(Riding academy vicinity, old saw mill 'A mile away) 

D. l-(car); 2-(Carlyle); 3-(15 miles); 4d; 6-( 15 miles); 7-(26 miles); 
8 -( 12 ); 

E. 1-(72);2-(8 rooms); 3-(40'x80');4-(40'x80');5-(1 bed);6-(12 
bunks per cabin); 7-(72); 8-(72); 9b; 9c; 10-(pit); 11 

F. 3,4,6 

G. 1 

H. 75d 


I. Reverend Louis Kubash 

J. Director 

K. Box 9, Moosomin, Sask. 

L. 435-2993 


CAMP KESUK 

Location: 

Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 
Used by: 

Sponsor or 
Owner: r 
Address: 


Beaver Creek (12 miles south of Saskatoon) 

18.9 leased, adjacent land available 

Day 

Girls and boys, 7-13 years 
YWCA, Saskatoon 


Director or 
Com. Chairman: 
Capacity: 
Length of 
Camping Season 
Rental: 

Rates: 


Winter and summer 
YWCA, Saskatoon, Sask. 

Phone: 244-0944 
Heather Graham 
YWCA, Saskatoon, Sask. 

Campers 80; Staff 20 

2 months 
Available for rent. 

$10 overnight, $5 + 10^ per person on daily basis 


Facilities: 

A. 2 

B. 2, 3, 4,5,6, 7, 12 (20) 

C. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9-(slumping, beaver dams, sand bars) 

D. 1-(bus, car); 2-(Saskatoon); 3-(12 miles); 4a; 4b-(within 'A mile); 
5a; 6-(12 miles); 7-(12 miles); 8-(12 miles) 

E. 1a-(80); 1b-(16); 2a-(20); 3-(20); 4-(40); 6-(tents); 9a; ll-(craft) 

F. 6-(sports, games, fridge, stove, YWCA pool and gym) 

G. 4 

H. contact YWCA, Saskatoon 

I. Heather Graham 

J. Camp Director 

K. YWCA Saskatoon 

L. 244-0944 

ACCREDITED MEMBER OF SCA 


KIWANIS GIRL GUIDE CAMP 


Location: 

Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 
Used by: 
Sponsor or 
Owner: 

Director or 
Com. Chairman: 
Capacity: 

Length of 
Camping Season: 
Rental: 

Rates: 


Glen Harbour, Last Mountain Lake 
Leased, adjacent land available for use 
Resident — cabins and tents 
Regina Area Girl Guides 

Kiwanis Club of Regina 
Mrs. E. Asquith 

1530 Broadway Avenue, Regina 
Campers 45: Staff 5 

May to September 

Available for rent. 

Caution fee: $50/week or more 
Weekly: $10/camper or $1.50 per day — outsiders 
Guide Family: $2/camper weekly or 20<//day or 
70d/weekend 


Facilities: 

A. 1-(Last Mountain) 

B. 3, 5, 7, 9, 12-(approx. 30) 

C. 1,4,5 

D. l-lown); 2-(Regina); 3-(48 miles); 4a; 6-( 10 miles); 7-(Regina); 
8-(Silton); 9; 10-(527-5718) 

E. 1a-(45); 2a-(5); 3-(50); 5; 6-(tents); 7; 8; 11-(outside dining shel¬ 
ter, tables, benches, barbeques) 

F. 6-(dock) 

H. $1.50 per person 

I. Mrs. E. Asquith 

J. Area Commissioner, Regina Area Girl Guides 

K. 1530 Broadway Avenue, Regina 

L. 523-8057 


CAMP LEMIEUX 


Location: 

Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 
Used by: 
Owner: 
Sponsor: 


Lac Pelletier, 30 miles S.W. of Swift Current 
22 acres, leased and adjacent land available 
Resident — cabins, semi wilderness 
Roman Catholic children 

Roman Catholic Episcopal Corp. of Gravelbourg 

Knights of Columbus 

Box 540, Gravelbourg, Sask. 

648-2563 


Director: 

Capacity: 

Length of 
Camping Season: 
Rental: 
Objectives: 


Raymond Carignan 

Box 540, Gravelbourg, Sask. 

Campers 70; Staff 20 

5 weeks 

Available for rent. $2/person/week — minimum $20 
Initiate spiritual activity through camp activities 
and love for nature. 


83 


Facilities: 

A. 1 

B. 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 9, 12 (60) 

C. 1,3, 4, 7-(in regional park across lake), 8, 9-(table land) 

D. l-(car); 2-(Swift Current); 3-(30); 4a; 6-(30); 7-(30); 8-(30) 

E. la-(70); 2a-(20); 3-(80); 4; 5; 7; 8; 9a; 11-(chapel, craft) 

F. 1 -(2); 2-(4); 3-(20); 4; 5-(1); 6-(sports equipment, diving raft, 
trailer) 

G. 1,4 

I. Rev. Raymond Carignan 

J. Director 

K. Box 540, Gravelbourg, Sask. 

L. 648-2563 


LUMSDEN CAMP 


Location: 

Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 
Sponsor or 
Owner: 

Address: 

Phone: 

Director or 
Com. Chairman: 
Capacity: 

Length of 
Camping Season: 
Camping Dates: 
Rental: 


Lumsden Beach 
160 — owned 
Resident — cabins 

Regina Presbytery Camp Board, United Church 

50 Ellison Crescent, Regina 

543-6701 

Herb Middleton 

2603 Lindsay Street, Regina 

Campers 100; Staff 20 

May - September 
July 

Available for rent; 


Facilities: 

A. 1 

B. 3, 4, 5, 7, 9, 10 

C. 1,2, 3, 4, 5 

D. l-(car); 2-(Regina); 3-(45 miles); 4a; 4b; 5b-(furnace in dining 
hall); 6-(45 miles); 7-(45 miles); 8-(45 miles); 9 

E. 1a-(100); 2a-(20); 3 (120); 4 (120); 5; 6-(cabins); 7; 8; 9a; 

11-(pool, rec. hall) 

G. 1 

H. $25/day, $60/weekend plus 75d/person 

I. Mrs. D.J. Macintosh 

J. Registrar 

K. 50 Ellison Crescent, Regina 

L. 543-6701 


LUSELAND BIBLE CAMP 


Location: 

Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 
Used by: 
Sponsor or 
Owner: 
Address: 


Director or 
Com. Chairman: 
Capacity: 
Length of 
Camping Season 
Camping Dates: 
Objectives: 


7 miles N.W. of Luseland 
40 — owned 
Resident — cabins 
Children 7-19 years 

Canadian Sunday School Missions 

Mr. Dan Meier 
Luseland, Sask. 

Phone: 359-4242 
Mr. Dan Meier, (director) 

Luseland, Sask. 

Campers 60; Staff 15 

, 3 weeks 
July 

To introduce thecamper to God as the all-important 
foundation for life; to promote physical, mental, 
social and spiritual growth to develop leadership 
through camping. 

CAMP MACKAY 

Location: East end of Round Lake in the Qu'Appelle Valley 

Acreage: 15.23 — owned 

Type of Camp: Resident — cabins 
Sponsor or United Church of Canada, 

Owner: Qu'Appelle & Yorkton Presbyteries 

Address: do Mrs. Cathy Cox, Grenfell, Sask. 

Director or Rev. Paul Dempsey 
Com. Chairman: Balcarres, Sask. 

Capacity: Campers 60; Staff 10 

Length of i .. 

Camping Season: mon 

Camping Dates: July 

Rental: Available for Rent. 

Objectives: To provide experiences in Christian living through 

adventure, challenge, contact with persons having 
something to offer young people, and group living. 

Facilities: 

A. 1-(Round Lake) 

B. 1, 2,4, 5, 7,9, 12-(50) 

C. 1, 4, 6, 7-(original cemetery for MacKay Mission); 9-(nestled in 
Qu'Appelle Valley, hills good for climbing, etc.) 


D. 1-(bus from Regina); 2-(Whitewood or Esterhazy); 3-( 15 miles); 
4a; 6-(15); 7-(15); 8 (15) 

E. 1a-(60); 2a-(10); 3 (75); 4-(large rec. hall); 6-(8 cabins); 7; 8; 
9-(outdoors) 

G. 1, 2-(perhaps); 4-(possibly) 

H. Negotiable 

I. Mrs. Cathy Cox 

J. Treasurer 

K. Grenfell, Sask. 

L. 697-2283 


MADGE LAKE BIBLE CAMP 


Location: 

Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 
Used by: 
Sponsor or 
Owner: 

Address: 

Chairman: 

Capacity: 
Length of 
Camping Season 
Camping Dates: 
Objectives: 


Madge Lake Provincial Park 

4 (leased), adjacent land available for camp use. 

Resident — cabins 

Children and Youth 7-19 years 

Canadian Sunday School Missions 

Box 981, Swan River, Manitoba 
Phone: 204-734-2305 
Mr. Steve Maksymchuk 
Box 981, Swan River, Manitoba 
Campers 60; Staff 15 

3 weeks 


July 

To introduce the camper to God as the all-important 
foundation for life; to promote mental, physical, 
social and spiritual growth; to develop leadership 
through camping. 


MANITOU LAKE BIBLE CAMP 


Location: 

Area: 

Type: 

Sponsored by: 
Address: 


Capacity: 
Camp for: 
Fees: 

Objectives: 


Manitou Lake, Saskatchewan 

10 acres 

Residence 

Canadian Sunday School Mission 
Winter and Summer 
Mr. A.H. Walde 
Neilburg, Sask. 

120 campers 

Children and youth, 7-18 years 
Youth $10.50; Children $6.50 
To introduce the camper to God as the all-important 
foundation for life; to promote physical, mental, 
social and spiritual growth; to develop leadership 
through camping, for the church, school and com¬ 
munity. 


MENNONITE YOUTH FARM BIBLE CAMP 


Location: 

Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 
Used by: 
Address: 

Phone: 

Director or 
Com. Chairman: 
Capacity: 

Length of 
Camping Season: 
Rental: 

Objectives: 


Rosthern, Saskatchewan 

600 — owned; adjacent land available for camp use 
Resident — cabins. Day 

Gen. Conference of Mennonites, Saskatchewan 

Rosthern, Box 370 

232-4861 or 232-4849 

Henry W. Friesen 

Box 370, Rosthern, Sask. 

Campers 70; Staff 15 

3 weeks 

Available for rent. So far the camp has not been 
rented out. 

Bring Christ to the campers; Christian nurture. 


Facilities: 

A. 1-(6 miles S.E. of camp) 

B. 4, 5, 6 

C. 4, 7-(Batoche, Fort Carlton) 

D. l-(car); 2-(Rosthern 31 miles); 4a; 4b; 5a; 6 (1); 7 (1); 8-(1); 9; 
10-(232-4861) 

E. la, 1b, 2a, 2b, 3, 4, 9a, 11 - (craft shop) 

F. 2,3,4 

I. Henry Friesen 

J. Director 

K. Box 370, Rosthern, Sask. 

L. 232-4861 or 232-4849 


CAMP MONAHAN 


Location: 

Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 
For use by: 
Sponsor or 
Owner: 
Address: 


Lebret, Saskatchewan 
50, owned 

Resident — cabins and tents; semi-wilderness 
Anyone interested 

Archiposcopal Corp. of Regina 

Summer Winter 

Lebret, Sask. Dysart, Sask. 

Phone: 432-2255 


Director or Rev. K.R. Greer 
Com. Chairman: Dysart, Sask. 


84 


Capacity: 


Campers 160; Staff 30 


clTjing Season : July 1 ' Au 9 ust 30 
Camp Dates: July and August 

Rental: Available for rent, May, June, September, October. 

Objectives: A total experience in Christian living. 


Facilities: 
A. 1 


B. 1,2, 3, 4, 5,6, 7,9, 10, 12-(5) 

C. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9-(fishery) 

D. l-(car); 2-(Fort Qu'Appelle); 3-(7); 4a; 4b; 5b; 6 (7); 7 (7); 8-(4) 

E. 1 a-(160); 1b-(70); 2a-(30); 2b-(30); 3-(200); 4-(200); 5; 6-(tents, 
cabins); 7; 8; 9a; 11-(canteen, pool, chapel, recreation hall) 

F. 1; 2-( 18); 3; 6-(4 rowboats) 

G. 1 

H. $2 per day per person 

I. Rev. K.R. Greer 

J. Camp Director 

K. Dysart, Sask. 

L. 432-2255 


RANGER LAKE BIBLE CAMP 


Location: 

Area: 

Type: 

For use by: 
Sponsor or 
Owner: 
Address: 

Director: 

Capacity: 

Rental: 

Objectives: 


Facilities: 

A. 1 

B. 1,2,3, 4,5,6, 7, 10, 12-(40) 

C. 2, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9-(in centre of 15,000 acre pasture) 

D. l-(car); 2-(Biggar); 3-(28); 4a-(good); 4b-(fair); 5b; 6-(28); 7 (28); 
8*(28); 9; 10-037-3560) 

E. 1 a-( 120); 1b-(72); 2a-(25); 2b-(15); 4; 5; 6-(winterized cabins); 
7; 8; 9a; 11-(pool, outposts of fort and covered wagons, craft shop) 

F. 2-(7); 3-(20); 4; 6-(approx. 40 ponies, swimming pool, riflery and 
outtripping equipment) 

G. 1,2 

H. Write for current information 

I. Bob McLeod 

J. Camp Manager 

K. Biggar, Saskatchewan 

L. 937-2560 


28 miles N.E. of Biggar 

90, leased, adjacent land available for camp use. 
(Endless) 

Resident — cabins — semi-wilderness 
Can. Sunday School Missions and rentals 

Ranger Lake Camp Board 

Summer and Winter 
Biggar, Sask. 

LaVerne Jantz, Drake, Sask. 

Campers 120 (s) Staff 25 (s) 

72 (w) 15 (w) 

Available for rent. 

To have a healthy camping program in the natural 
environment where campers can get to know Jesus 
Christ on a personal basis. 


REGINA CONFERENCE LUTHERAN BIBLE CAMP 


Location: 
Acreage: 
For use by: 

Sponsor or 

Owner: 

Address: 


Committee 

Chairman: 

Capacity: 

Length of 
Camping Season: 
Rental: 
Objectives: 


8 miles west of Midale 
8 acres, owned 

Lutheran church groups or Lutheran sponsored 
Scouts, Guides, etc. 

Regina Conference Lutheran Bible Camp 

Association 

Summer and Winter 

Box 278, Midale, Sask. 

Camp Phone: 458-2616 
Manager's Phone: 458-2227 

Rev. Donald Rasmussen Rev. Robert Rademacher 

Zion Lutheran Box 278 

Weyburn, Sask. Midale, Sask. 

Campers 100; Staff 20 

Month of July. (Open in last half of June and 
August for miscellaneous use of camp.) 

Not available for rent. 

To provide the Regina Conference of the ELCC 
Bible Camping as an organized, Christ-centred 
experience which implements the ministry of the 
church by offering opportunities for growth, under 
trained leadership, through a program of activities 
related to an outdoor environment. 


Address: Summer Winter 

c/o Camp Shagabec Don MacPherson 

Cypress Hills Prov. Park Box 152, Morse, Sask. 

Phone: 629-3270 


Don MacPherson (address as above) 


Director or 
Com. Chairman: 

Capacity: Campers 72; Staff 15 

Length of A ^ 

Camping Season: 

Rental: Available for rent; Rates negotiable. 

Objectives: To enrich the lives of children and adults through 

providing opportunities for adventure group living, 
etc., in a Christian setting. 


Facilities: 

A. 1 (unique geological and botanical characteristics) 

B. 1,2, 3, 4, 5,6, 7,8,9, 10, 11, 12-(in park) 

C. 1,2, 3, 4,5, 6, 7-(Fort Walsh),8 

D. l-(car); 2-(Maple Creek); 3-(20); 4a; 4b; 5b; 6 (20); 7-(20); 8-(20) 

E. 1a-(72); 2a-(15); 3; 4; 5; 6-(tents and cabins); 7; 8; 9a; 11-(Craft 
hall, pool, riding) 

F. 4, 6-(camp bus) 

G. 1 

H. $1 - $2 per camper per day 

I. Dr. Tom Lawrence 

J. Committee 

K. 1434 Hillcrest Drive, Swift Current 

L. 773-4449 


STONEY LAKE BIBLE CAMP 


Location: 

Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 
For use by: 
Sponsor or 
Owner: 

Address: 

Director or 
Com. Chairman: 
Capacity: 
Length of 
Camping Season 
Rental: 
Objectives: 


Kipabiskau Lake 
Owned 

Day; Resident — cabins, Semi-wilderness 
Bible Camp 

Owner 

Ellsworth Johnson, Secretary 

872-4461 

Harvey Jackson 

Lac Vert, Sask. 

Campers 60; Staff 20 

. 6 weeks 

Not available for rent. 

Reaching children for Jesus Christ and Christian 
Growth. 


TAPAWINGO 


Location: 

Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 
Sponsor or 
Owner: 
Address: 


Candle Lake, Sask. 

22.5 — leased 

Resident - Cabins; semi-wilderness 


United Church of Canada, 
Prince Albert, Sask. 
Summer 
Box 13 

Candle Lake, Sask. 


Winter 

Rev. W. Boyd 
2640 3rd Avenue East, 
Prince Albert, Sask. 


Director or Rev. W.E. Gilmer 

Com. Chairman: Box 1064, Mel fort, Sask. 

Capacity: Campers 56; Staff 20 

Length of May 15 - September 15 

Camping Season: 7 

Rental: Available for Rent. 

Rates: Variable 

Objectives: To provide Christian camping experiences and 

opportunities to people of all ages. 


Facilities: 


A. la 

B. 1, 2, 3, 12-(50) 

C. 1,3, 5, 6, 8 

D. l-(car); 2-(Prince Albert); 3-(50); 4a; 4b; 5b; 6-(50); 7-(50); 8-(2) 

E. 1a-(56); 2a-(20); 3-(80); 4-(70); 5; 6-(cabins); 7; 8; 9a; 11-lgood 
beach, craft cabin) 

F. 1; 2-(3); 3-(21); 6-(2 row boats, sports equipment) 

G. 1, 2,4 

H. $4 per day, all inclusive 

I. Mrs. E.M. Land 

J. Treasurer 

K. Box 713, Shellbrook, Sask. 

L. 747-2236 


ACCREDITED MEMBER OF SCA 


CAMP SHAGABEC 


Location: 

Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 
For use by : 
Sponsor or 
Owner: 


Cypress Hills Prov. Park, south of Maple Creek 
10, leased, adjacent land available for camp use. 
Resident — cabins; semi-wilderness 
All ages 

United Church of Canada 
Swift Current Presbytry 


CAMP TA-WA-SI 


Location: 

Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 
For use by: 
Sponsor or 
Owner: 


Fort Qu'Appelle, Sask. (Echo Lake) 
76 — owned 
Resident — cabins 
Boys and girls, ages 6-14 

Regina VMCA 


85 


Address: 


Director: 

Chairman: 

Capacity: 

Length of 
Camping Season: 
Rental: 

Rates: 

Objectives: 


Facilities: 


Summer Winter 

Fort Qu'Appelle, YMCA, 13th & McIntyre 

Sask. St., Regina, Sask. 

Phone: 332-4317 Phone: 527-6661 

Mat Senz, YMCA, Regina, Sask. 

Harold Morris, YMCA, Regina, Sask. 

Campers 120; Staff 45 

2 months 

Available for rent. 

$75 per day 

Fun and adventure; experience in democratic living; 
social adjustment; development of skills and inter¬ 
ests; health and safety; habit formation; develop¬ 
ment of leadership; appreciation of the natural world. 


A. 1 

B. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7,9, 10, 12 (3) 

C. 1, 3, 4, 5, 9-(heated pool) 

D. l-(bus); 2-(Regina); 3-(45 miles); 4a; 4b; 5b; 6-(5); 7 (5); 8-0); 9; 
10-(332-4317) 

E. 1 a-( 120); 1b-(18); 2a-(12); 3 (180—; 4-(250); 5; 7; 8; 9a; 11-(pool 
craftshop with indoor fireplace, chapel) 

F. 1; 2-(30); 3-(35-45); 4; 5; 6-(row boats, sports equipment) 

G. 1, 2, 4 

H. $75 per day per group 

I. Mat Senz 

J. Camp Director 

K. YMCA, 13th & McIntyre St., Regina 

L. 527-6661 


THUNDERBIRD 


Location: 

Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 
For use by : 
Sponsor or 
Owner: 
Director: 


Capacity: 

Length of 
Camp ing Sea so n: 
Objective: 

Facilities: 


Candle Lake, Sask. 

7 — leased; adjacent land available for use. 

Resident — cabins 
Mentally handicapped 

Department of Core Services 

M. Koike, Recreation Department, 

North Park Centre 

Box 1240, Prince Albert, Sask. 

Phone: 763-7401 
Campers 30; Staff 11 

3 months 

To provide a recreational and camping experience 
for adult mentally handicapped. 


A. 1 

B. 1,2, 3,9, 12-(50) 

C. 1,3, 4, 5, 6, 8 

D. 1 - (bus or car); 2-(Prince Albert); 3-(50); 4a; 4b; 5a; 6-(50); 7-(50); 
8-(50) 

E. 1a-(30); 2a-(12); 3-(45); 4-(45); 5; 6-(dorm, 2 tents); 7; 8; 9b; 9c; 

11-(craft room) 

F. 1(2); 3-(20); 6 (1 large boat) 

I. Marv Koike 

J. Director 

K. North Park Centre, Box 1240, Prince Albert, Sask. 

L. 763-7401 


ACCREDITED MEMBER OF SCA 


TORCH TRAIL BIBLE CAMP 


Location: 

Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 
For use by: 
Sponsor or 
Owner: 

Director or 
Com. Chairman: 
Capacity: 

Length of 
Camping Season. 
Rental: 


Choiceland, Sask. 

180 owned, adjacent land available for camp use. 
Resident — cabins, semi-wilderness 
7 years and over 

Canadian Sunday School Missions 
Box 84, Choiceland, Sask. 

Phone: 428-2988 
Rev. Jim Gregor 
Choiceland, Sask. 

Campers 115; Staff 25 

Year round 
Available for rent. 


Objectives: To utilize our facilities and encourage the youth of 

Canada to put their faith and trust in the Lord 
Jesus Christ. 

Facilities: 

A. 2 

B. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 10, 12-000) 

C. 3, 4, 5, 6, 7-(Melfort, Traders Trail), 8, 9-(Forest Reserve and 
Iron Ore Deposits) 

D. l-(car); 2-(Prince Albert, Nipawin, Melfort); 3-(65-30-49); 4a; 4b; 
5b; 6-(30); 7-(30); 8-(60); 9; 10-(428-2988) 

E. 1a-(115); 1b-(50); 2a-(25); 2b-(10); 3-020); 4; 5; 6; 7; 8; 9a; 

11-(pool, chapel) 


F. 2-(4); 3-04); 4-(6); 6-(ponies, pool, golf course) 

G. 1,2 

H. Write for information 

I. Rev. Jim Gregor 

J. Director 

K. Choiceland, Sask. 

L. 428-2988 


CAMP WAKONDA 


Location: 

Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 
For use by: 
Sponsor or 
Owner: 
Address: 


Director: 

Capacity: 

Length of 
Camping Season: 
Rental: 
Objectives: 


Wakaw Lake, Sask. (70 miles N.E. of Saskatoon) 

50 owned 
Resident — cabins 
Boys, girls, adults, youth 

Saskatoon YMCA 
Summer 

Box 520, Wakaw, 

Sask. 

Phone: 233-4983 
Ben Pickford, 25, 22nd St. E., Saskatoon, Sask. 
Campers 100; Staff 40 

4 months 
Available for rent 

Education through recreation, self-reliance through 
small group activities. 


Winter 

25, 22nd St. E., 
Saskatoon, Sask. 
Phone: 652-7515 


Facilities: 

A. 1, 2 

B. 2, 3, 4, 5,6, 7,9, 12 (2) 

C. 1, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9-(30 miles to Batoche, Ft. Carleton, Ukranian 
Orthodox Church) 

D. 1-(bus or car); 2-(Prince Albert, Saskatoon); 3-(45-75); 4a; 5b; 
6-(8); 7-(8); 8-(8); 9; 10-(233-4983) 

E. 1a-(100); 1b-(30); 2a-(30); 2b-(5); 3; 4; 5; 6-(cabins); 7; 8; 9a; 
11-(craft shop) 

F. 1 -(2); 2-(17); 3-(60); 4; 5-00); 6-(outtripping equipment) 

G. 1,2,4 

H. $1 per person per day 

I. Ben Pickford 

J. YMCA Camp Director 

K. 25, 22nd St. East, Saskatoon 

L. 652-7515 

ACCREDITED MEMBER OF SCA 


CAMP WOODBOIA 


Location: 

Acreage: 

Type: 

Sponsored by: 
Address: 


Capacity: 

Rental: 

Objectives: 


Facilities: 

A. 3 

B. 2, 3, 5, 7, 10, 12-(in regional park) 

C. 4, 5, 6, 7, 9-(old post, museum, Indian Reserve) 

D. l-(car); 2-(Assiniboia); 3-(35 miles); 4a; 4b; 6-(35 miles); 7-(35 
miles); 8-(3!4 miles); 9 

E. 1 -(96); 2-06); 3-(80); 4-(72); 6-(dorm); 7; 8; 9; 10-(pit); 11-(pool 
in regional park) 

G. 1 

H. $1 per day per camper 

I. Mrs. Irene Cole 

J. Camp Chairman 

K. Killdeer, Sask. 

L. 476-2561 


3% miles south of Wood Mountain 
Leased 

Resident — cabins 

United Church of Canada, Assiniboia Presbytery 
Winter and summer 
Mrs. Irene Cole 
Kildeer, Sask. 

Campers 96; Leaders 16 

Available for rent. Write for information. 

To promote a camping experience, learning to 
work and play and relate to life in a Christian-like 
manner, and, through leadership and discipline, 
develop potentials that lead to a better society. 



86 



AFFILIATE MEMBERS 


Christopher Lake Baptist Camp 

Rev. H. Cassells, Box 264, Asquith, Saskatchewan 
Katepwa Baptist Camp 

Mr. L. Chevaldayoff, 163 Hammond Road, Regina, Sask. 
Kenosee Boys & Girls Camp 

Box 9, Mossomin, Saskatchewan 

Camp Lemieux 

41,2nd Avenue N.E., Swift Current, Saskatchewan 
Benevolent Society of Camp McKay 

c/o Mrs. C. Cox, Box 682, Grenfell, Saskatchewan 

Madge Lake Bible Camp 

Steve Maksymchuk, Box 981, Swan River, Manitoba 


Ranger Lake Bible Camp 

Biggar, Saskatchewan 
Regina Presbytery Camp Board 

Mrs. M. Macintosh, 41 Fisher Street, Regina, Saskatchewan 
Camp Shagabec 

Rev. Don MacPherson, Box 152, Morse, Saskatchewan 

Camp Tapawingo 

c/o Mrs. E.M. Land, Box 713, Shellbrook, Saskatchewan 

Torch Trail Bible Camp 

Rev. Jim Gregor, Box 84, Choiceland, Saskatchewan 
Moose Jaw Presbytery Camp Woodboia 

Mrs. Kay Mitchell, Box 25, Melaval, Saskatchewan 


ORGANIZATIONAL MEMBERS 


Baptist Union of Western Canada 

First Baptist Church, 401,4th Ave. North, Saskatoon, Sask. 

John Bosco Camp 

Box 217, Smeaton, Saskatchewan 
Canadian Red Cross, Sask. Div. 

2571 Broad Street, Regina, Saskatchewan 
Saskatchewan CGIT Committee 

c/o Verna Pittman, 103 Riel Crescent, Saskatoon, Sask. 
Canadian Sunday School Mission 
Box 60, Caronport, Saskatchewan 
Saskatchewan Camp Cherith 

c/o Mrs. Dolores Ohrt, Box 83, Caronport, Sask. 

The Canadian Diabetic Assn., Saskatchewan Division 

Mrs. A. Salikin, Chairman, 1021 Ave. N South, Saskatoon, Sask. 
Knights of Columbua 

Nick Lucyshyn, 2430 Munroe Avenue, Saskatoon, Sask. 


Mennonite Youth Farm Bible Camp 

Box 370, Rosthern, Saskatchewan 

Camp Monahan 

Rev. K.R. Greer, Dysart, Saskatchewan 
Sask. Conference Camp Committee 

1805 Rae Street, Regina, Saskatchewan 
Sask. Council Girl Guides of Canada 

3501 Dewdney Avenue, Regina, Saskatchewan 
Camp Thunderbird 

c/o M. Koike, Box 1240, Prince Albert, Saskatchewan 
Camp Wakonda (YMCA) 

22, 22nd St. East, Saskatoon, Sask. 

Camp Ta-Wa-Si (YMCA) 

13th & McIntyre Street, Regina, Saskatchewan 
Camp Kesuk (YWCA) 

3rd Ave. & 24th Street, Saskatoon, Sask. 


Max Abraham 

209 Waterloo Crescent 
Saskatoon, Sask. 

Beverly Bullock 
11313, 69 Street 
Edmonton, Alberta 
Doug Conway 

1860 Lome Street 
Regina, Sask. 

Pauline Dobney 

Box 1300, Valley View Center 
Moose Jaw, Sask. 

Doris Grassie 

1534 Garnet Street 
Regina, Sask. 

LaVerne Jantz 

Box 83, Drake, Sask. 


INDIVIDUAL MEMBERS 


Don MacAulay 

Box 455, Estevan, Sask. 
Jack MacKenzie (life member) 
307, 2720 College Avenue 
Regina, Sask. 

Joy MacKenzie 

7, 419 Lome St. North 
Regina, Sask. 

Eileen Mayotte (life member) 
87 Coldwell Road 
Regina, Sask. 

Pastor Michael John Nel 

Box 147, Hodgeville, Sask. 
Linda Palin 

Box 558, Lumby, B.C. 


Doug H. Porteous 

Caroline Robins School 
Saskatoon, Sask. 

Lome Rowell 

Fort Qu:Appelle, Sask. 

Rev. V. Martyn Sadler 
Knox*Met Church 
Regina, Sask. 

Erland Sundby 

Box 68, Stewart Valley, Sask 
Adriana Van Duyvendyk 
1701 Central Avenue 
Sutherland Sub., 

Saskatoon, Sask. 


STUDENT MEMBERS 


Graham Boyd 

42, 1302 Windsor St. 
Saskatoon, Sask. 

Al Knox 

Box Q335, Sub P.O. 6 
Saskatoon, Sask. 


Jan Korven 

Room 329, Athabasca Hall, 
Sub P.O. 6, Saskatoon, Sask. 
Marg Pezderic 

64, 1302 Windsor Street 
Saskatoon, Sask. 


Dale Ripplinger 

113 Seminary Cresent 
Saskatoon, Sask. 

John Vogt 

1261,97th Street 
North Battleford, Sask. 
Lee Yeomans 
Australia 


Crestex Limited 


COMMERCIAL MEMBERS 

68 Broadway Avenue, Toronto, Ontario Old Fashion Foods 511 Victoria Avenue, Regina, Saskatchewan 

Mr. C.W. Beaton, Sales Manager Ron Schroeder 


The use of this directory for commercial purposes without the written consent of the Saskatchewan Camping Association 

is prohibited. 


The information in this directory has been supplied by member camps and is correct to the best of our knowledge at the 

time of publication. 


87 



This is the story of the Wearers of the Magic Moccasins , an Indian legend whose charm and philosophy are 
transposed to our own way of living, in a way campers can easily grasp. 


Moccasins are the shoes of the bush and the canoe, the 
shoes of the forest children. 

Those who wear moccasins go about quietly, disturbing 
little, allowing the wearer to see and to hear all about him, 
unafraid. 

Those who come to wear the Magic Moccasins, get to 
know the secret places, hear the unfamiliar sounds, the feel 
of new tilings, the smell and taste of the unusual. 

The Magic Moccasins take you to all the varied loveliness 
of living things which God has created in this, your 
homeland. 

Once you wear the Magic Moccasins, you will find 

— the saskatoons, sweet berries of the summer time 

— the biggest blueberries 

— the sun-warmed flavour of ripe raspberries 

— the bitter, puckering taste of choke-cherries 

— the cool savour of basswood bark. 

The Magic Moccasins will carry you along through lakes 
and streams, lined with the many shades of the green of 
trees; decorated along the edges with flaming cardinal 
flowers, iris, and purple joepie weed; covered with yellow 
and white water lilies. 


The Magic Moccasins will carry you to the highest 
places, where you can look to the far horizon; to the very 
edge of the dome of the cloudless sky; where you can look 
down into the echoing valleys and into the shadowless blue 
of deep water. 

The Wearers will come to know the busy ways of the 
beaver, the slow, uncaring way of the porky, the stately 
way of the skunk, the inquisitive, noisy manners of the 
racoon, the scurrying, chattering way of the squirrels and 
chipmunks. Like Hiawatha, you will come to call all 
manner of living creatures, Brother! 

If you put on these Magic Moccasins, you will find the 
cool valleys, where the light-footed deer stand among small 
birches and massive basswoods; and the hot, bare hillsides, 
where the ant-tunnelled stumps linger, showing the marks 
of the hungry bear. 

Here at camp, we would want you to become the 
Wearers of the Magic Moccasins, so that you can romp 
joyously through the days, aware of all the living world 
about you, even as Jesus did, long ago, pausing to marvel 
at the beauty and the wonder and the loveliness of it all. 


Be ye Wearers of the Magic Moccasins in the bushland 
of your homeland in these, the Moons of summertime! ■ 


-C.R. “Blackie”Blackstock 


Editor's Note: It is hoped that this column will be a regular item in “Canadian Camping”. The purpose of it is to print some story, poem, 
inspirational thought, etc. which can be read around the campfire, in chapel, morning prayers or in silent contemplation. If you have some 
writings you would like to share with our readers, please forward them to the Editor. 





WV DIRECTORY OF 



YMCA/YM-YWCA/YWCA 

P.G. GILBERT. M.R.A.I.C., ARCHITECT 


| j RESIDENCE CAMPS 

PLANNING AND BUILDING CONSULTANT TO CAMPS 


IN CANADA 



to be available soon at all Y's 

13 MAPLE AVENUE, TORONTO, ONTARIO M4W 2T5 
(416) 921-7384 

Professor, Ryerson Polytechnical Institute, Toronto 
(416) 595-5189 


National Council, YMCA YWCA of Canada 

2160 Yonge Street 571 Jarvis Street 

Toronto, Ont. M4S 2A9 Toronto, Ont. M4Y 2J1 

(416) 485-9447 (416) 921-2117 




