ion 

camping 


june/juin edition 1975 


OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 


THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION / L'ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU CANADA 








table of contents-sommaire 


CANADIAN CAMPING 
ASSOCIATION 

Suite 203, 102 Eglinton Avenue East 
Toronto, Ontario M4P 1E1, Canada 


Vol. 27 


Executive: 

President: 

Vice President: 

Secretary: 

Treasurer: 


Ron Johnstone 
Jack Pearse 
Jay Haddad 
Bill Swift 


June Edition 1975 edition de juin 

THE IMPORTANCE OF THE UNIMPORTANT. 

by Bruno Mora we tz 


No. 4 


3 


"CANADIAN CAMPING" 
PERSONNEL 


WATER SEARCH AND RESCUE PROCEDURES 
by Don Dickie 

THE SUCCESSFUL SINGSONG. 

by Bob A ttfield 

PENSEES . 

Adaptation by Brian Black stock 


Managing Director: 
Editor: 

Advertising Manager: 
Circulation Manager: 
Directory Chairman: 


Jocelyn Palm 
Helen E. Stewart 
Doug Dent 
Mary Pat Bradbury 
Peter Gilbert 


ORGANIZING A SAILING PROGRAMME - Pari II 
by Catherine Thomas 

L’EXPEDITION BOSTOCHOUANE . 

by Camp Richelieu Quatre-Saisons 


5 

8 

9 

10 

13 


"Canadian Camping" is the official publica¬ 
tion of the Canadian Camping Association. 
Published four times a year. 


THE OUTDOORSMAN 
by Larry Johnston 

OUTDOOR COOKERY 


17 

18 


Subscription rates: 

$5.00 - 1 year; $12.00 - 3 years 
Single copy - $1.50 
CCA membership includes subscription 


TIPS . 18 

ALONG THE BOOKSHELF. 19 

Cover Couverture 

designed by Violet A. Cat!in, Graphics, Typesetter for Canadian Camping 


PROVINCIAL OFFICES 


BUREAUX PROVINCIAUX 


B.C. Camping Association 
633 W. 8th Avenue, Vancouver, B.C. 
(Rick Ryan, President) 

Alberta Camping Association 
332 — 6th Avenue S.W. 
Calgary, Alta. T2P 0R1 
(Nestor Kelba, President) 

Saskatchewan Camping Association 
P.O.Box 823 
Regina, Saskatchewan 
(Margaret Pezderic, President) 


Manitoba Camping Association 
385 St. Mary Ave. 
Winnipeg, Man. R3C ON 1 
(Marvin Wall, President) 


Ontario Camping Association 
102 Eglinton Avenue East, Suite 203 
Toronto, Ont. M4P 1E1 
(Jack Pearse, President) 

L'association des camps du Quebec 
and 

Quebec Camping Association 
1415 est rue Jarry, Montreal, Due. H2E 1A7 
(Abbe Rosaire Corbin, president) 

English Section 
2233 Belgrave Ave. 

Montreal, Due. H4A 2L9 
(Val Willis, President) 

Section frangaise 

1415 est rue Jarry, Montreal, Due. H2E 1A7 
(Abbe Robert Maisonneuve, president) 


New Brunswick Camping Association 
Box 5, Bath, New Brunswick 
(Rev. Philip Giberson, President) 

Nova Scotia Camping Association 
Box 3243S, Halifax, Nova Scotia B3J 3H5 
(Rev. David Boston, President) 

Newfoundland & Labrador 
Camping Association 
Box 4188, St. John's, Newfoundland 
(Barbara Taylor, President) 


REPRODUCTION. IN ANY FORM. OF 
MATERIAL IN “CANADIAN CAMPING” 
MUST HAVE WRITTEN PERMISSION OF 
THE CANADIAN CAMPING 
ASSOCIATION 

















The Importance of the 

Unimportant 

by Bruno Morawetz 

Director , Camp Ponacka 


Everyone has had the experience of getting very uptight 
about something which at a later time proved to be of very 
little consequence. It is useful to maintain the kind of per¬ 
spective in which the things of lasting importance are given 
their proper due. 1 hope to shed some light on this but, 
before I do, I wish to recount a few personal incidents. 

One Sunday, as we trudged through ankle deep snow, 1 
listened to a former counsellor who had recently graduated 
with honours in a four year history course at Queen’s Uni¬ 
versity. He commented on the fact that when he entered 
University five years ago a new trend was taking shape, a 
phenomenon which is sometimes called Supermarket educa¬ 
tion. This type of education encourages a student to pick 
and choose here and there a bit of Sociology, a slice of 
English, a dash of Art Appreciation, along with a basketful 
of History. My friend greatly lamented the fact that much 
of his four year education was a waste of time. He felt that 
more structure and an orderly progression in his course of 
studies would have been of far greater benefit. 

Let me now take you to my wife’s new greenhouse. A 
friend walked in and expressed great admiration for her full 
and lush geranium plants. He complained that his geraniums 
grew tall and spindly and never developed the fullness of 
hers. She immediately informed him (and me) that a ger¬ 
anium will grow into a beautiful plant only if you keep 
nipping off the new shoots, just as any fruit tree needs 
annual pruning. 

You may rightly ask what all this has to do with camp¬ 
ing? In an important sense, a camp director is like a gardener 
and his geraniums are children. If a youngster grows without 
structure, without the occasional pruning, without limits, 
he may come back from camp, like my friend from Queen’s, 
saying: “I did not really learn anything at camp, I accom¬ 
plished nothing, it was a waste of time.” 

Many of us spend a good deal of time and money pre¬ 
paring a good soil for our campers to live in — we provide 
good equipment, physical comforts, leadership, etc., but we 
often forget that a child, like a geranium, needs the occa¬ 
sional pruning — discipline. 

Under the influence of Dr. Spock and Freud, parents, 
educators and camp directors have come to believe that 
children should never be thwarted. For years we have heard 
it said that punishing a child is self-defeating and now we 
hear calls for the return of the noose and the strap. I am not 
prepared to enter into a discussion of these contentious 
issues, but they are signs that many persons are beginning 
to see the danger of unbridled freedom in a richly fertilized 
soil. 

If one is not to swing aimlessly on the pendulum of 
public opinion, one must have some definite convictions 
about the important and the unimportant things in life. 


I am starting from the assumption that the only thing 
which is important to a human being is what happens to his 
inside. The inner life of man can be referred to by various 
terms, in English “soul”, in Greek “psyche”. A camp direc¬ 
tor who docs not gear his camp to the inner life of his 
campers and staff will not be accomplishing what is most 
desirable. Most camp directors know that their camp has a 
special mystique, which makes camp what it is — a place set 
apart, an oasis for thirsty souls. This camp mystique is so 
intangible that few of us can trace it to its origin. It exists 
because, in the intimate atmosphere of camp life, the souls 
of all impinge on each other. In most camps, the director 
unconsciously gives guidance to his camp mystique, hence 
it is true (and well known) that a camp is the expression of 
the individual who runs it. 

It is well to remember that, just as life consists of minute 
moments, a camper’s fourteen hour day consists of hundreds 
of minute incidents. His fourteen day sojourn is made up of 
thousands of small incidents, each of them seemingly unim¬ 
portant. It is these seemingly unimportant moments whic 
make or break his camping experience. During these thous¬ 
ands of seconds the doors to the soul, the senses, are on full 
alert. How frightfully important that the eyes should see 
beauty, that the ears hear pleasant sounds and often the 
sounds of silence. How important the warm touch of a 
friendly hand, how glorious to the nostrils the smells of 
nature! (1 can omit to mention the pleasant taste of whole¬ 
some food!!!) One philosopher of this century, Martin 
Buber, made this a cornerstone of his philosophy “the 
hallowing of daily life”. Many people live under the illusion 
that on some day, at some moment, from somewhere, will 
come some great event which will reveal to them the mean¬ 
ing of their life. Such moments rarely come. Far better that 
we should recognize the holiness of each moment, of each 
lovely sight or sound, that we should taste in each morsel 
of food the bounty of creation. 

In addition to our five senses, the soul stretches forth 
its antenna and scans the vibrations of its surrounding 
space. In a good camp the vibrations are mainly good. 
Where there is honesty and trust and genuineness among 
people, the vibes will be good and the inner life of every 
person will be soothed and helped. How important are these 
unimportant things I have just talked about? How much of 
the director’s time is spent on these? 

Are we, the gardeners of our campers’ souls, sufficiently 
tuned in to these subtle ways of communicating? Do we 
realize that jarring colour schemes hurt the soul, that any 
form of ugliness makes one uncomfortable? Do we realize 
that the tone of voice speaks louder than the words it utters? 
Why do you think, does every tourist love Switzerland? It’s 
the trimness of the fields, the flowers in the windows, the 


3 



neatly painted houses. Without a great deal of money, our 
camps should be made into little Switzerlands, not in order 
to impress parents on visitors day, but because young souls 
are being watered and fed. 

Are we as camp directors too pre-occupied with facilities 
and programmes, are we too captivated by techniques of 
leadership, instead of the simple things like genuineness in 
our staff and ourselves? Parents may be impressed by expen¬ 
sive equipment and elaborate facilities, kids are left “cold” 
by them. A highly developed campsite may prove to be a 
real handicap. When our camp was young, the campers 
derived great satisfaction from creating a new path or cut¬ 
ting trees for a new tent. Now it’s all done. Fortunately we 
were able to buy some raw land nearby and the boys can be 
pioneers once again. 

One thing which many directors consider very important 
is a highly trained staff. My own experience makes me ques¬ 
tion the importance of it. I am always suspicious when a 
staff application is accompanied by a long resume listing 
dozens of qualifications, courses taken, tests passed. In 
many cases such a person has done all the right things, he 
has earned his Bronze, his St. John’s First Aid badge, his 
bushman’s thong, but perhaps he has never taken the time 
to sit quietly by a brook to listen to the gay laughter of 
its ripples. 

A good counsellor needs ears tuned to the ripples of a 
child. He needs more the ability to listen than the skill to 
teach. If a counsellor’s time is too important to share in the 
discovery of some unimportant beetle, will he be good for 
the child’s inner life? 

I am old-fashioned enough to think that cleaning the 
cabin and making a bed are not as unimportant as they are 
held to be by many. A child needs self-discipline and thrives 
on it. The American philosopher, William James, said ‘"First 
thing each morning we should do something which we have 
to force ourselves to do”. Every conquest over our slovenly 
selves is a step to victory, the final victory being our accep¬ 
tance of ourselves as we are!!! 

A few days ago my young secretary informed me that 
she had decided to turn down a two thousand dollar offer 
to work at a hockey camp. The director could not under¬ 
stand why she would go to a camp up north for a salary one 
third as high as his own. She had been working for him 
evenings after school and he knew her good qualities. He 
began to plead with her saying: “you will have beautiful 
quarters with a shower and all conveniences”. She replied: 
that is exactly why l want to go up north where these things 
are absent.” “You’ll have your own colour T.V.”, to which 
she replied: “that is exactly why I want to go up north.” 
There is a lesson in the young lady’s attitude. Camp should 
be as different from our daily life in the city as we can 
make it. In our camp we try strenuously to keep away from 
anything which resembles the city. We do our best to shun 
concrete and steel, arborite and wall boards, plumbing and 
electricity; radios are completely outlawed. A change is 
indeed as good as a rest and the importance of these unim¬ 
portant details must not be overlooked. 

Most adults have had the misfortune to have their lively 
imagination stifled by the demands of time and circum¬ 
stance. In children, the imagination is still very much alive. 
A camp director is well advised to inject an element of 
mystery and make-believe into his programme. There should 
be many surprises in store for his campers, events can be 
announced in imaginative ways, dressing up has never lost 


its appeal in youngsters and adults alike. The one thing 
which occupies a large part of our time is our annual Hoax 
(Indian Burial ground, unidentified flying object, glabergoof 
egg, etc.). With the bombardment from noise and the mass 
media, the imagination is frequently overlaid and buried. 
Camp is a good place to re-awaken it. 

What I have been saying can have an important bearing 
on the role of the director and the manner in which he 
spends his time. If it is true that these subtle influences are 
of the greatest importance, the director might be wise to 
delegate all the “important” things, like daily routines, 
maintenance, buying etc. to some member of his staff. It 
might be the right thing to keep himself free for all those 
“unimportant” things like being free to talk to a camper on 
the path or tell a bedtime story to one little group. I found 
a poem in my files, I don't know where it came from or 
who wrote it but perhaps it will convey what I have striven 
to say. . . 

“/ took a piece of human clay 
And gently formed it day by day 
And molded with my skill and art 
A young child's soft and yielding heart. 

It came again when days were gone 
It was a man I gazed upon 
The fonn I gave him still he bore 
But I could change him nevermore. ” 


Un directeur de camp nous montre comment il serait sage 
pour un directeur de deleguer la responsabilite des choses 
“importantes” telles les routines quotidiennes, I’entretien, 
les achats . . . a ses adjoints afin de pouvoir s’occuper des 
choses “sans importance” comme parler a un campeur tout 
en marchant le long d’un sentier du camp ou raconter une 
histoire, le soir, dans une hutte. 


Gumpert’s Food 
for Camps 

Complete Line of Trail Foods 
Bavarian Creme Desserts 
Ready to Use Puddings 
Fruit Drink Bases Punch Powders 
Spaghetti Sauce Canned Meat Items 

Salad Dressings 
French Toast Mix 
Biscuit Mix 
Soup Bases 


For information call or write:— 

S. GUMPERT CO. OF CANADA LTD. 
ClE S. GUMPERT DU CANADA LTEE 
31 Brock Ave., Toronto, Ont. M6K 2L1 
(416) 531-5758 


4 

















Whistle blows for the buddy check 
Buddies are counted 
One camper is discovered to be missing 
Emergency Signal is given 
Waterfront is cleared 
Counsellors report to waterfront 
Campers' attendance taken 
Description and name of missing person 
is taken 

Counsellors get into pre-arranged 
search groups 
Full water search begins 
One full sweep of swimming area 
concluded 

Body found in deep water at margin of 
buoy lines (within 5 feet of where 
the camper was last seen) 

Body brought to shallow water 
Artificial Respiration commenced 


TIME 

ELAPSED 

0 sec. 
10 sec. 
15 sec. 
20 sec. 
40 sec. 

1 min. 

1 min. & 10 sec. 
1 min. & 10 sec. 

1 min. & 10 sec. 
1 min. & 30 sec. 
3 min. 

3 min. & 5 sec. 

3 min. & 25 sec. 
3 min. & 30 sec. 


The camper has been without oxygen for a minimum of 
3 min. & 30 sec., assuming he disappeared just before the 
buddy check was called. Brain damage may have set in after 
3 min. If the subject disappeared 2 min. before the buddy 
check, he has been without oxygen for over 5 min. and 
there is little chance that he will be revived. 


—1 

Don has been a Summer 


Field Representative for 


the Royal Life Saving 


Society for the past two 


years and also has consider¬ 


able experience in the 


instruction of lifeguards 

w 

and swimmers of all ages. 

w#_ 



What is the fault in this procedure? 

The search procedure was rehearsed in pre-camp and all 
staff members knew their jobs and performed them well. 
Why was this procedure inappropriate? 

The weakness is not in the search performed, but in the 
search procedures. Examine the search procedure again. It 
took 1 min. & 15 sec. from the time the camper was dis¬ 
covered missing until the water search was initiated. It was 
in these wasted seconds that the chance of reviving the 
subject was lost. 

Before discussing the search procedure itself, let us back 
track a bit. The possibility of a camper getting into diffi¬ 
culty in the first place may be decreased through adequate 
training of counsellors. This training should include; recog¬ 
nition of possible hazards, awareness of danger areas and a 
knowledge of the appearance of a swimmer or non-swimmer 
in difficulty. In the case of a drowned non-swimmer, it 
usually takes at least 40 sec. following his last breath until 
he becomes unconscious. During this period he may exhibit 
definite signals or symptoms which can be spotted by the 
trained lifeguard. The following frequently distinguish a 
non-swimmer in difficulty: 

1. Vertical body position 

2. Lack of supporting kick resulting in the subject being 
unable to remain at the surface 

3. Eyes wide open 

4. No call for help (priority is breathing). 

The weak swimmer with some support skills, unlike the 
non-swimmer, may be able to support himself at the surface 
and thus be able to attract attention by splashing and calling 
for help. 

In addition to recognizing these signs of trouble, the 
lifeguard must be aware of all the danger areas in and 
around his waterfront facility. He must be able to recognize 
potential emergencies especially in the actions and facial 
expressions of swimmers. 

Having taken these positive steps, there must be an 
emergency procedure for the situation in which a person is 
discovered to be missing. The emergency procedure should 
be practiced to ensure that all participants know exactly 
what is expected of them. The procedure should be dis- 


5 





cussed durih t *e-camp, written up and posted in appro¬ 
priate locations around the camp. With each arrival of new 
campers, the procedure should be practised so that the 
campers learn the procedure. During the season, an emer¬ 
gency should be tried at least once with no advance warning. 
Many procedures that look adequate on paper and in con¬ 
trolled trials, may not work in practice. These facts become 
evident only when the procedure is put into effect. Further, 
people react differently under stress. It is only through a 
valid test that people may evaluate their reactions to a 
seemingly real situation. 

Camps have unique problems with emergency procedures 
which are not necessarily found in other facilities. One such 
problem is the lack of time to devote to practice sessions. 
Counsellors who also have responsibility of lifeguarding 
have many other duties to perform as well. Thus, though 
practice time is essential, in many camps it may be difficult 
to schedule. Here is a suggestion that may help solve this 
problem. Divide the counsellors who wish to lifeguard into 
one or more teams of 3 or 4 people. Each team lifeguards 
together during the various waterfront activities for their 
section of the camp. During the week, each team arranges a 
practice session. The practices should be brief and frequent 
rather than long and irregular. Though swimming skills are 
essential, these should be practised individually and not 
during the training session. Stroke practice is time consum¬ 
ing, tiring and often boring; therefore, only the most 
dedicated counsellors persist. This does not mean that 
physical training is ignored during the session; rather it is 
de-emphasized. Rescue techniques, communication drills 
and other aquatic skills such as skin diving, synchronized 
swimming and water polo should be practised. These 
activities incorporate the skills necessary to perform a 
rescue in an enjoyable way. From these practice sessions 
competitions can be organized among the various teams. 
The practice sessions might average between 25 and 35 
mins, in length and occur two to three times a week. 

One more item should be given some consideration 
before designing an emergency search procedure; what 
happens to the body after unconsciousness occurs? It is 
already noted that a non-swimmer may remain conscious at 
least 40 sec. after breathing ceases. However, there are 
many possible causes of unconsciousness in an aquatic 
environment, such as, a blow to the head one might receive 
as a result of surfacing under a dock or raft or swimming 
into one, hyperventilating, exposure, drugs, alcohol and 
epilepsy. 

After a person loses consciousness, the lungs may retain 
air and it may take some time before this air is lost. This air 
gives the body added buoyancy. The actual depth which a 
body assumes in water depends upon the fat, muscle and 
bone ratio. Females usually have a much higher fat content 
than males, enabling females to float at a much higher level, 
usually at the surface or just below. Males, especially those 
with a large bone structure or a large amount of muscle, 
tend to sink to a greater degree than those with slighter 
builds. It is quite possible that a very large boned and 
muscular male may sink directly to the bottom. On the 
average, most inert bodies rest within 8 feet of the surface. 
Unless at the surface and extremely buoyant, the body 
usually assumes a semi-vertical position as opposed to being 
horizontal. This is because the body’s centre of buoyancy is 
located in the chest area which tends to cause the feet and 
legs to hang at a greater depth. 


Several decisions can now be made which assist in deter¬ 
mining the actual search procedure. First, if you hope to 
revive the lost camper, the search must begin as soon as 
possible. Secondly, the body usually remains within 8 feet 
of the surface. The depth and clarity of the water deter¬ 
mine which areas should be searched underwater. If you 
can see the bottom, then there is no need for more than a 
visual check from the surface. Thirdly, visual search should 
be done first because of its speed and the high probability 
of the body being near the surface in any case. Fourthly, 
specific danger areas such as weeds, holes, docks, rafts and 
drop-offs should be the next priority. It is usually in these 
areas that people disappear quickly; for example, trapped 
under a raft. Fifthly, lifeguards can drown. Make sure that 
all participants in a search procedure are adequately super¬ 
vised. Searchers when searching danger areas should not go 
alone but rather in pairs, thereby decreasing the chance of 
the searchers themselves getting into difficulty. Lastly, 
much time can be saved if the procedure is well practised 
and organized. 

Compare the following search procedure with the one 
suggested at the beginning of this article: 


TIME 

ELAPSED 


Whistle blows for the buddy check 0 sec. 

Buddies are counted 10 sec. 

One buddy found to be missing 15 sec. 

Emergency Signal is given 20 sec. 


Guards find out where the camper was last 
seen—2 staff members begin an immedi¬ 
ate Rover search of the area where the 
camper was last seen plus the surround¬ 
ing clanger areas; the remaining staff 
member clears the waterfront 20 sec. 

Waterfront cleared except for the 2 staff 
members searching and 1 staff guarding 
the searchers 40 sec. 


Preliminary search is organized as coun¬ 
sellors report to waterfront, this 
includes land and water search of the 
immediate area where camper was 
last seen 

Preliminary search initiated 
First sweep of preliminary search 
completed 

As more counsellors (or qualified 
campers) arrive, they are organized 
into a full water search 
First sweep of full water search 
procedure concluded 


1 min. 

1 min. & 10 sec. 

1 min. & 30 sec. 

2 min. & 15 sec. 

3 min. 


Note the differences between the two search procedures. 
The staff immediately start searching in a Rover search as 
soon as they know where the camper was last seen. A Rover 
Search is a search of the immediate area and danger spots in 
which the body is most likely to be found. 

The preliminary water search is similar to the full search 
only on a smaller scale. This is an organized and systematic 
search of the immediate area where the camper was last 
seen. 


At the same time a land search is conducted. It is here 
that name and description of the camper is taken. One of 
the best methods of this search is simply shouting the 
camper’s name. (Usually the person responds and the emer¬ 
gency is resolved.) 


6 



The final search is of the entire area. It can be done 
effectively where the area is reasonably well-confined by 
buoy lines and/or docks and is fairly small. On large public 
beaches this search is rarely done because of the time 
required to adequately clear the entire area. 

The emergency procedure is not terminated until a 
positive identification is made. Several factors should be 
considered when searching various parts of the waterfront. 
When in deep water do not search below 10 feet in depth. 
In most cases the body will be between this depth and the 
surface. The query is often raised concerning failure to 
search the volume of water between the surface and the 
8 to 10 foot mark where the searcher is swimming. The 
body may be in this area and be missed. Of course this is 
always a possibility, but, the probability is small. Remem¬ 
ber the body usually floats in a semi-vertical position. In 
most cases the upper part of the body will be close enough 
to the surface to be seen or the legs will be hanging down 
into the path of the underwater searcher. In very deep 
water, i.e., 30 to 40 feet, scuba equipment should be used 
but only by qualified divers. Remember that if a diver does 
find the body, he must surface immediately and commence 
artificial respiration. This procedure is more difficult while 
wearing tanks. Make sure there is assistance at the surface. 
Divers should always dive in pairs. 

When searching around pilings and underneath docks and 
rafts, check areas where a person might be caught. This 
means searching all the way between the bottom and the 
surface. If the person is caught on something he may not 
assume the depth level anticipated. 

While searching under floating rafts and docks, search 
about 2 feet below the raft or dock. The body may be close 
to the surface but not seen because of the raft or dock. On 
the second sweep, swim at a greater depth. 

Skin diving gear (mask, snorkel, fins) is not necessarily 
essential for a search. It is an asset but a search should not 
be delayed while obtaining the equipment. This equipment 
is best used in water depths of over 10 feet. Visibility is 
increased as well as added propulsion provided by fins. It is 
essential that people using skin diving gear be properly 
trained before using it and, like scuba divers, swim in pairs. 


The key to success in emergency search procedures 
depends upon two factors; organization and practice. It is 
essential to have one director who organizes the searches. 
This ensures that all areas are covered yet overlap is kept to 
a minimum. Effective communication is enhanced when 
everyone reports the results of their search to the search 
director. When organizing a preliminary or full water search, 
search in the following priorities: 

1. Danger areas 

2. Start at the deep water and move toward the shallow 

3. Focus on the spot where the person was last seen and 
then work out from that point. 

Finally, train all participants well in artificial respiration 
from various positions such as, (i) on land, (ii) in shallow 
water, (iii) rescuer on a dock or in a boat and the subject in 
the water, (iv) in deep water with and without aids. Item 
(iv) is a difficult skill. To assist deep water searchers have 
either a boat, raft or dock close to them. They can com¬ 
mence A.R. more easily from one of these positions. Do not 
depend upon a resuscitator. Direct artificial respiration is 
just as good or better in a real emergency. ■ 

Dans cet article Don Dickie, qui a longuement travaille avec 
la Societe Royale de Sauvetage, indique la necessite pour un 
camp de vacances d’avoir un systeme de recherche et de 
sauvetage bien rode pour rescaper un campeur qui disparaft 
soudainement a la plage. Pour reussir au moment d’une 
urgence ce systeme doit etre bien organise et avoir ete 
pratique par la personnel et les campeurs. 

Traduction par Paul Belanger s.m. 


SPECIAL NOTE 

Legislation under Small Vessels Regulations 
now requires a Ministry of Transport approved 
lifejacket or Personal Flotation Device for 
each person in any vessel at all times. Canoes 
and rowboats were previously exempted but 
are now included. 


CAMPERS AREN'T THE ONLY ONES WITH QUESTIONS... 


CAMP COUNSELLOR'S HANDBOOK 
by Brian Blackstock & John Latimer 

A more confident group of counsellor's will 
face this summer's rush of children to 
camps across Canada. Brian Blackstock and 
John Latimer have combined their many years 
of camping experience to produce a practical 
guide for prospective and practising camp 
counsellors. 



$7.95 cloth edition 


$4.95 paperback 


aaqe 


PUBLISHING LIMITED 

J PO BO* 5000. 164 COMMANDER BLVO • AGlNCOuRT ONT 


7 








The Successful 
Singsong - 



that great spirit booster! 

—by Bob Attfield 



Facing a rainy day, homesick campers, or a lull in the 
evening’s program? What could be better for camp spirit 
than a lively singsong! “Huh!”, some say. “Not the way I’ve 
seen some of them conducted.” True enough. Many of us 
have suffered through some pretty awful efforts at song 
leading. But who could argue that a good singsong isn’t 
worth its weight in gold. What better way to inject vitality 
and joie de vivre into the camp program? 

Let’s look at a formula that will help to produce the 
results we want. 

( e , ta ) t (Lim±c±») x5e . ss 

gt . . . good timing. Why not start the day off with a 
quick singsong right after breakfast? 

This ‘setting of the proper emotional climate’, as the 
psychologists say, may greatly affect the campers’ eagerness 
to tackle the new day. You’ll know you have really been 
successful if you hear the voyageur group whistling one of 
your morning tunes during cabin cleanup. It almost goes 
without saying that a song period during the evening camp¬ 
fire or even as a filler during an unexpected break in the 
program, (for example when used to cover the preparation 
period between acts in the talent show), will help to keep 
just about any group in good spirits. On the other hand, is 
it advisable to lead a singsong just before an activity that 
the campers are awaiting impatiently, such as a favourite 
camp wide game, or tuck time? The leader that attempts to 
conduct a music session when the time is ‘out of joint’ may 
be taking his/her life into his hands. 

al . . . appropriate length. Of the two extremes, it is 
better to cut a song period short than to let it drag on and 
on. Three or four songs (especially in the morning), are 
usually enough to create the good cheer you have been 
working so hard to produce. 

r + m . . . rhythm & movement. Good use of rhythm and 
movement will probably do more than anything to establish 
a good mood for singing. Tunes like “The Grand Old Duke 
of York”, “When the Saints Go Marching In”, and even 
“The Junior Birdsmen” are ideal as warm-ups because they 
can be accompanied by clapping, tapping, stamping and 
even jumping up and down. It is worth mentioning here that 
some of our best song leaders seldom, if ever, use any song 
books. Why? The time allowed for distributing the books 
and flipping through pages (especially if the campers have 
their noses buried in them) detracts from the spontaneity 
of the singing. If song words can be taught without the use 
of books, so much the better. 


c . . . competition. In singing, competition can be used 
to encourage more active (or vocal!) participation. Songs 
like “The Quarter Master’s Store”, old and hackneyed as it 
is, are great for inducing each cabin group to produce an 
original rhyme, better than the one before. Dividing the 
group into sections for part or round singing with tunes like 
“Frere Jacques”, “Row, Row, Row Your Boat”, and “Good 
News”, can be more effective if a challenge is thrown to 
each section to surpass the other. 

v . . . variety. Have you considered changing the hour 
and the length of the singsong to avoid routinization? Some 
days, you may wish to forego singing entirely. Variety in 
the music selection will naturally make participation more 
enjoyable. How rewarding for a camper to be able to begin 
the day with “Alouette” and retire with an appropriately 
soothing melody like “Land of the Silverbirch”. 

sa .. . suitable accompaniment. The accompanist, whether 
the instrument is a guitar, piano, or mouth organ, who can 
gauge the key which will provide the range of pitch most 
suitable for the voices in the group, deserves a special spot 
in Heaven. Can you imagine forty teenagers trying to sing 
“This Old Man” at a range designed for five year olds? It 
happens! It may be better to have no accompaniment than 
a poor one. However, even if no “official” accompaniment 
is available, you may be able to do wonders with an impro¬ 
vised drum, clackers, maracas or even bells. 

5e . . . five times enthusiasm. Can there be anything 
more important than enthusiasm in a song leader? The 
importance of enthusiasm was demonstrated to me very 
clearly during a cookout one cold rainy Wednesday some 
years ago. The senior counsellor, Richard Kinch, had led 
the campers up to ‘Lookout Point’, where it had rained 
steadily for five hours. The cold and rain had reduced 
morale to zero. Finally it was time to begin the long trek 
downhill through the dripping trees to the canoes. Suddenly, 
Richard, who was the epitome of good spirits, broke into 
an exuberant chorus of “I’m Henery the Eighth I Am . . . 
Henery the Eighth I Am, I Am”. The effect was incredible! 
Youngsters who had been complaining moments earlier 
began singing and joking. The trip that had been doomed 
to failure almost from the beginning, had become fun! 

If we act five times as enthusiastically when leading a 
singsong as we do normally, how can we go wrong? 

With enthusiasm our formula is now complete. Here it is 
in full — 


(good timing + appropriate length 


\ /rhythm + movement + competition + variety ^ 

/ \ suitable accompaniment / 


x 5 x enthusiasm = 


SUCCESSFUL 

SINGSONG 


GOOD LUCK WITH YOUR NEXT SINGSONG! 


8 





to 



ensees 


Children grow best when . 

1. They are with adults who are at 
ease with them and who seem to enjoy 
their company. .. 

2. They are permitted to make mis¬ 
takes, and permitted to live with adults 
who do not themselves pretend to be 
perfect. . . . 

3. Those about them believe in them 
and express confidence through words 
and deeds.. . 

4. Those about them understand their 
hopes and objectives. . . 

5. Those about them permit them to 
express doubts, to raise questions, and 
to try their own ideas. . . 

6. They understand the limits of the 
freedom within which they can make 
decisions, that with all freedom there 
is an equal amount of responsibility to 
be accepted.. . 

7. Those about them deal with them 
with firmness and consistency. . . 

8. Adults about them set good ex¬ 
amples for them to follow. . . 

9. Those about them help them to 
succeed when they need help, but let 
them struggle when they are winning... 

10. Those about them realize that they 
are children and do not expect them 
to behave as adults in miniature. . . 

11. Those about them understand how 
they grow and develop, and provide 
motivation and opportunity for en¬ 
couraging sound growth. . . 

12. They feel strong within themselves 
and are supportive of their friends and 
families. . . 

13. They live in an atmosphere of 
friendliness and reason. . . 

14. They are able to face life’s chal¬ 
lenges as objectively as possible. . . 

15. Their performance expectancy is 
related to themselves and not to 
others. . . 

16. They are interested in what they 
are doing for its own sake. They will 
be interested when it has meaning for 
them. 


Les enfants se forment 
le mieux lorsque . 

1. Ils sont avec des adultes qui sont a 
l’aise avec eux et qui semblent jouir de 
leur presence. . . 

2. Ils ont le droit de se tromper et 
peuvent vivre avec des adultes qui ne 
pretendent pas etre parfaits. . . 

3. Ceux qui les entourent leur font 
confiance et le traduisent en paroles et 
en actes.. . 

4. Ceux qui les entourent compren- 
nent leurs espoirs et leurs objectifs. . . 

5. Ceux qui les entourent leur per- 
mettent d’exprimer leurs doutes, de 
poser des questions et d'essayer leurs 
propres idees. 

6. Ils comprennent les limites de la 
liberte a l’interieur desquelles ils 
peuvent prendre des decisions, et que 
toute liberte entraine une responsabilite 
egale qui doit etre acceptee. 

7. Ceux qui les entourent sont avec 
eux fermes et consistants.. . 

8. Les adultes pres d’eux leur donnent 
le bon exemple. . . 

9. Ceux qui les entourent les aident a 
reussir quand ils ont besoin d’aide,mais 
les laissent se debattre quand le succes 
est en vue. . . 

10. Ceux qui les entourent sont con- 
scients qu’ils sont des enfants et ne 
s’attendent pas a les voir agir comme 
de petits adultes. . . 

11. Ceux qui les entourent savent com¬ 
ment les jeunes croissent et se develop- 
pent, savent les motiver et creer des 
situations favorables a une bonne 
croissance. . . 

12. Ils se sentent une force interieure 
et sont un support pour leurs amis et 
leur famille. . . 

13. Ils vivent dans un climat base sur 
l’amitie et la raison. . . 

14. Ils peuvent faire face aux defis de 
la vie avec toute l'objectivite possible... 

15. Le rendement qu’on attend d’eux 
est mcsure selon leur propre capacite 
et non celle des autres. . . 

16. Ils sont interesses a la chose qu’ils 
font pour elle-meme. 11s ont cet interet 
quand ce qu’ils font a du sens pour eux. 


Le texte ci-haute a cte adaptc par Brian Blackstock, directeur du Camp Mazinaw, d un 
riche resume tire du livre Understanding Boys par Clarence G. Moser, publie par 
Associated Press. Cest un ouvrage fortement rccommande pour tout responsable 

de jeunes. -Traduction Paul Belanger s.m. 

The above is an adaptation, written by Brian Blackstock, Camp Mazinaw, ot the 
thought-provoking summary taken from Understanding Boys by Clarence G. Moser, 
published by the Association Press. It is a highly recommended book 
for every Leader. 



ALL CAMPER'S CLOTHING AND 
BELONGINGS 

should be marked for easy identification 
and to avoid loss. 

CAMP LINEN AND EQUIPMENT, TOO, 
should be marked to avoid confusion 
and loss. 

NAMES OR NUMBERS CAN BE 
SUPPLIED. 

Order CASH'S NAME TAPES from 
department stores and other dealers — 
or direct from 

CASH'S 

CANADA LABELS LIMITED 

2120 CABOT STREET. 
MONTREAL, QUEBEC 

PRINTED NAME PRICES 

6 doz. $3.20 9 doz. $3.65 

12 doz. $4.50 24 doz. $5.50 

No C. O.D.s. Please mail cheque or 
money order. 

(Ontario Residents add 7% retail sales tax) 


CANADIAN CAMPING 
MAGAZINE 

Normal Subscription Rates: 

$ 5.00 for one year 
$12.00 for three years 

SPECIAL OFFER 

Group Subscriptions for Member Camps 
and Camp Associates 
Five copies of each issue 
to a single address for only $20.00 a year 

Please complete section below and send 
your cheque to: 

Canadian Camping Magazine 
Suite 203, 102 Eglinton Ave. E. 
Toronto, Ont. M4P 1E1, Canada 


Name:--- 

Address:_ 

City: --- 

Prov. _ Postal Code- 

Check one 

□ i year □ 3 years □ Subscription 


Regretfully, Ron Johnstone’s 
‘Viewpoint’ is delayed in the 
mail. It will appear in the 
November issue. From Ron, 
“Regards and have a wonderful 
summer.” 


9 






















organizing a 

sailing program Part II 

—by Catherine Thomas 

Camp Northway 

Continuation of the article appearing in the April /75 issue. 



Docking 

Assuming that you are a non-sailor setting up a program, 
a brief sailing lesson might be helpful before delving into 
where you should keep your boats. It is good practice when 
setting out to sail to tack up-wind. It may take several tacks 
to reach your destination but only one to return home. 
Secondly, brakes are applied in a sailboat in two ways: — 
first, by spilling the wind from the sails and secondly, by 
heading the bow of the boat directly into the eye of the 
wind so that the boat is “in irons”. It is this last method 
that is most commonly used in landings. 

I believe that there is only one place to keep boats when 
not in use in a camp sailing program - at a dock. They are 
readily accessible for use at any time as well as for daily 
inspection and maintenance chores. 

The dock is preferably L- or T-shaped with front and 
sides unobstructed for landing boats according to wind 
changes. Bind the perimeter of the dock, especially at the 


■brofi cujG. 

,f\t Psi ftrsiC’'- 





liu Mli-.il 




5 


t 

UJ • r>i D 


corners, with some form of shock absorbing material to 
prevent damage to both dock and boats. Old tires work well. 
An apron extending to the water will prevent boats from 
being caught underneath and damaging the rigging. The 
dock height should allow for ease in getting into and out of 
boats. Equip your dock with painter rings spaced so that 
boats will not bump into one another when tied up. The 
inland side of the dock can be equipped with slips for each 
boat and should be long enough that boats can be secured 
by stern lines as well as a bow line. With the dock acting as 
a breakwater, stern lines will prevent boats from being 
bashed during a storm or sudden wind shift. 

The depth of water about the dock and slips should be 
sufficient to allow a boat to be manoeuvred with its centre¬ 
board down. And by all means look up you may have to 
do some tree pruning! The surface area of the dock should 
be adequate to accommodate the folding and drying of sails 
as well as the general activity of the sailing program. A 


cleared area on the nearby shore will be useful for launching 
or for pulling out boats for repair. 

Mooring is better for the boat but inconvenient for the 
camp program. Moorings should be spaced four boat lengths 
apart to allow for free swing and room to approach when 
under sail. Locate them in a reasonably sheltered area 
where there is no current and where they will be out of the 
way of lake traffic. All mooring lines must be checked 
regularly. A small craft will be needed to ferry your sailors 
back and forth. 

With the exception of prams, dry sailing is unsatisfactory 
in the camp situation. As well as being time consuming, 
boats are heavy and awkward to pull in and out of the 
water. Camp boats get enough wear and tear and don’t need 
the additional bumps and dents that are inevitable when 
boats are being hauled about on dollies. 

Storage: 

A small shed or box-type locker and a sheltered rack 
located near the sailing area is required for the in-season 
storage of sails, records and extra equipment. During the 
winter, boats are best stored in a building where they are 
sheltered from the elements. The overturned dinghy must 
be supported on blocks, which are usually placed in the 
vicinity of where the mast is stepped as well as a foot or so 
from the stern. Do check with the boat builder as to the 
proper method for your boat. 

Clean your boats thoroughly before storing. All wooden 
equipment such as rudders, battens, spars, etc., require care 
in seeing that they are left in a position where they will not 
warp. Fold dried sails and hang them in bags so that they 
will remain dry for the winter. 

MAINTENANCE: It is essential in this discussion to stress 
the care and respect that sailboats demand. A well main¬ 
tained boat is a safe boat. The onus rests on the activity 
head but everyone who sails must be involved in the daily 
maintenance tasks. Delegate duties to the campers, i.e., 
cleaning and bailing boats, removing tarpaulins, etc. Daily 
boat inspection should include inspection of buoyancy 
tanks and safety equipment. See that boats are always 
clean, dry and tidy and all lines (having their ends whipped 
and tied in a figure-eight knot) are coiled and hanging. 
Check stays for proper tension. Check all sails, lines and 
fittings for wear or malfunction and repair immediately. 
Minor sail tears can be mended with a tape such as Rip 
Stop and a few stitches. Major repairs require an experienced 
sailmaker. Dry sails before folding to prevent mildew. 
Should sails become soiled they only require a good rinse 
with clear water. If you must, use soap on stubborn spots 
rubbing gently with a rag. Be sure to rinse well as soap 
residue can break down synthetic fibres. Assure that 


10 










shackles, cotter pins and plugs have safety attachments to 
prevent loss. Finally, check docks and moorings. 
MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT: The following should be 
on hand: Tools — pliers, hammer, screw drivers, marlin 
spike, awl, sheathed knife, scissors. Spare parts — extra 
shackles, cotter pins, cleats, jib snaps, blocks, various sizes 
of line, shock cord, whipping cord and masking or adhesive 
tape. To ensure that you will always be able to sail all of 
your boats, it is wise to have an extra rudder, tiller and suit 
of sails on hand. As to sails - needles, synthetic thread. Rip 
Stop, wool or strips of lightweight fabric for tell tales. For 
General Maintenance: Bailing cans (made from plastic 
bottles), sponges, scrub brushes, a bilge pump, detergent 
and a 5-minute Epoxy kit (Poison—use with care and proper 
eye protection). A reaching pole for catching Hying halyards 
is handy if a tower is not near at hand. 

Safety: 

As whistles and bells often are not heard when sailing, 
devise a flagging system for calling in boats. All sailing must 
be done in full view of a lifeguard who is totally equipped 
and trained for sailing rescues. According to your situation, 
he may be stationed in a patrol boat or on shore. All water¬ 
front personnel must receive pre-camp training in sailing 
rescue procedures. The rescue boat must be equipped, in 
addition to the required safety gear, with a tow line and a 
sheathed knife and be manned by two trained persons. 

When a rescue is necessary approach the capsized sailboat 
to leeward, taking care to avoid stray lines, etc. Remove 
anyone from the water who is not involved in righting the 
boat. Modern sailboats are generally easy to right by stand¬ 
ing on the centreboard and to sail again immediately follow¬ 
ing a dumping without outside assistance provided that the 
sailor has had some experience. 

Should a capsized boat turn turtle the situation is not as 
easy to handle. The centreboard can easily fall back into its 
box if your boat has not been equipped with a preventer. 
Before attempting to right a turtled boat make sure that all 
the sheets are free. Stand on the top of the overturned boat, 



lean back and pull on a line which has been attached under 
the boat (the jib sheet will do). When the boat is on its side, 
the centreboard can be pulled out of the box and the boat 
can be righted in the usual fashion. 

When it is necessary to tow a sailboat, secure the lowered 
sails and boom over the cockpit with the mainsheet. Secure 
the towline around the mast and through a chock if there is 
one. Don't tow by the painter. You will pull the fitting 
right out of the boat. 

Early in the season demonstrate dumping procedures for 
the whole camp. Include compulsory dumping in your test¬ 
ing scheme. Common sense dictates that a capsize must 
initially occur in a structured situation where panic can be 
alleviated. No amount of theory can be used as a substitute. 

To qualify for participating in sailing, the following 
swimming prerequisites arc recommended. The OCA stan¬ 
dard requires a distance swim of 100 yards and treading 


water or drownproofing for 5 minutes. CYA prerequisites 
require the same skills to be performed while fully clothed 
and wearing a life-jacket. The Red Cross is recommending 
the Survival Swimming level as its gradation standard for 
participation in boating activities. 

The following safety equipment is mandatory in all 
sailboats — a government-approved life preserver for each 
person aboard (and they are to be worn), two paddles and a 
bailer. Bailer and paddles should be secured so that they 
will not Hoat away should the boat capsize. A piece of 
shock cord stretched across under the bow deck is useful 
for hanging up life-jackets when not in use. A sponge and 
extra piece of line can be useful on board. I feel that bilge 
pumps are best left on the dock. 

Scheduling 

Program guides for sailing are often very specific in 
stating that each lesson period should be a minimum of two 
hours — and so they should, if one is to absorb the vast 
content of suggested lesson plans. If the aim of your camp 
is to provide concentrated instruction in a specific activity, 
then two hour periods are necessary. 

At camp, sailing can be successfully taught within the 
framework of a one hour period provided that your pro¬ 
gram is efficiently organized and allows for Hexibility. No 
matter whether your general camp program is very struc¬ 
tured or informal, or, whether activities are taught in groups 
or on an individual basis, there are a few points to be 
remembered. 

1) Get your sailots on the water as quickly as possible. It is 
easy to turn a camper off sailing when too much initial 
land work is demanded. 

2) Each camper should be given the opportunity to partici¬ 
pate in sailing the boat during their first sail. The first 
on-the-water session must be with a qualified person and 
must include what to do if the boat appears to be getting 
out of control. Often even the suggestion of heeling can 
frighten new sailors. No matter how much reassurance they 
receive they feel certain that the next puff of wind will put 
them in the water and under that sail! By alleviating the 
fear of capsizing right from the start, almost everyone will 
enjoy the sport. 

3) To help save a lot of time in the actual teaching period, 
arrange demonstrations periodically for either the whole 
camp or for sections — things such as how to rig a boat or 
capsize procedures. 

4) When scheduling campers for on-the-water sessions keep 
in mind the capacity of each boat for the provision of 
maximum active involvement in boat handling - three in a 
sloop (helm, main and jib) and two in a cat boat (helm and 
main). There may be some days when you need some extra 
ballast in the boat; otherwise try not to exceed these num¬ 
bers. Always remember how boring it can be to have 
nothing to do in a boat. 

5) Be Hexible in your scheduling so that you can make the 
best use of the weather - your intermediate sailors need 
intermediate winds. 

6) Encourage your campers to sail in free dock duty periods. 
You will have to establish your own criteria as to qualifica¬ 
tion necessary to take a boat out during this period. It is 
advisable, even if you have the framework, to require that 
permission be granted from the activity head upon indivi¬ 
dual request each day. This way you can control who goes 
out according to the weather. 





Program 

Until recently there was no standardized criteria available 
for the evaluation of sailing ability from one program to 
another. The recognition of this need has resulted in the 
development of a format for teaching and evaluation as set 
down in the CYA Standards. These Standards should be 
used in camps no matter how limited or basic the program 
may be. As these tests have been designed for use in all 
areas and for all age groups, some adaptations may be 
desired at your camp. For example, the Standards do not 
stipulate further swimming requirements beyond the initial 
prerequisite. I strongly feel that camps should integrate 
further swimming qualifications graded to the higher levels 
of the sailing Standards into their programs. 

Besides the day to day teaching program other sailing 
events can be planned. Racing is great fun and one of the 
best ways to learn how to make a boat go. Novice sailors 
can be involved in a simplified scheme where they sail to a 
windward mark and back to the start using the “Rules of 
the Road”, which everyone must know. As they become 
more adept, they can then be introduced to a proper 
racing format. 

A racing program is of little future value unless it is 
properly organized and carried out according to the rules of 
racing. Obtain a current copy of the CYA Yacht Racing 
Rules, a horn or other sound signal and make starting flags 
in the craft house. Many books with diagrammatic explana¬ 
tions of the racing rules can be found in most book stores 
and are of great assistance when used in conjunction with 
the rule book. 

Include sailing events in your camp regattas. It need not 
be the obvious - a formal race. An event might be a relay 
race where crews sail to a mark, round it, and return to the 
dock. Each member of the crew must then tie a specific 
knot before the next section of their team sets off. Sailing 
single handed, backwards sailing and picking up floating 
objects are but a few things that you could combine into a 
relay or obstacle race. Use your imagination but be sure in 
whatever you devise that your boats will not be damaged. 

Sailing picnics, day trips or overnights are always popular. 
Check beforehand that the destination on these outings will 
provide a suitable landing area for sailboats. A sudden change 
in weather on an overnight may bring a downpour or a big 
blow. 

Devise games — playing tag with a life preserver gives 
experience in practising the man-overboard drill. Play 
“Follow the leader”! This could involve several campers 
each learning to handle his own pram and involve all types 
of manoeuvres. Another game may require that each time 
a whistle blows everyone must come about. This game can 
be expanded to include many different signals 

Don’t restrict sailing just to the waterfront. Sneak sailing 
into the perennial camp scavenger hunt. You might require 
each team to correctly label a diagram or each member of 
the team to tie a bowline, etc. In a game of “Categories”, 
ask that the parts of a sailboat be named. An evening pro¬ 
gram may have a nautical theme. If you have the facilities, 
show a movie. You might invite an experienced sailor to 
address your group. On a lighter vein, hold a sailors’ cos¬ 
tume night. 

Prepare programs specifically for rainy days. These are 
days to concentrate on land work: knot tying, splicing, 
whipping, discussion groups or chalk talks on sailing theory. 


Race rules can be explained using small model boats. Sails 
can be mended, etc. 

Suggested Equipment and Teaching Aids 
for the Sailing Program 
Marks for setting out a race course. 

Slalom course: The first mark is anchored. A flexible 



heavy-gauge wire is attached to the anchor line at a deptli 
which will allow for the draft of your boat. Additional 
marks are attached at intervals to the wire with clips. When 
setting up the slalom course the attached series of marks 
will float downwind and provide you with a practice course 
for tacking and gybing. 

Flags. 

Whistles or sound signals. 

Blackboard and coloured chalk. 

Inexpensive line for knot tying and splicing practice. 
Whipping cord (inexpensive string is adequate). 

Knot board. 

Poster sized drawings for bulletin boards. These can range 
from a labelled drawing of boat parts to weather charts. 

Flip charts. 

Start a scrapbook for the collection of articles and tips on 
sailing. 

Copies of sailing tests. A very helpful aid has been a detailed 
outline of our sailing tests compiled in manual form. Each 
tent group is provided with a copy for individual use. 

Start a sailing library. The following publications are very 
helpful. 

Available from the C.Y.A. — 333 River Road, 

Ottawa K1L 8B9, Canada 

1. CYA Proficiency Standards. 

2. CYA Learn-to-Sail Manual. (The first of a series, this 
text book deals with the CYA Proficiency Standard 
“White Sail Levels I, II and III”.) 

3. CYA Instruction Manual. (A teaching aid for instruc¬ 
tors in teaching and instructing at the White Sail 
Level.) 

CYA can also provide you with a list of qualified 
instructors. 

4. The Yacht Racing Rules. 

Available from book stores — a few of along list available. 

1. Invitation to Sailing - Alan Brown 

2. Invitation to Sailboat Racing - Alan Brown 

3. Successful Sailing - Lou D’Alpuget 

4. Instant Weather Forecasting - Alan Watts 

5. This Is Sailing - Richard Creagh-Osborne 

6. Paul Elvstrom explains - The Yacht Racing Rules. 

7. The Rules of Yacht Racing - Bob Smith 

(cont’d on page 14) 


12 










Note d’introduction: Chaque annee, la base de plein air 
Quatre-Saisons fournit l’occasion aux jeunes de participer a 
la preparation et a la realisation d’une descente de riviere 
en canots. Voici le recit de l’aventure vecue par une equipe 
en aout dernier: l’expedition Bostochouane. 

L’EQUIPE 

Us sont huit bien decides a partir pour une aventure de 
150 milles en canots en Haute-Mauricie. Jean-Pierre est 
choisi comme animateur du groupe; il en sera a sa quatrieme 
expedition du genre. Denis sera co-animateur et vivra sa 
seconde experience en descente de riviere. En plus de ces 
deux adultes, six gar$ons ages de 14 a 17 ans. 

Le travail de preparation debute en janvier. Chacun des 
membres de l’equipe accepte une responsabilite qui repond 
a ses gouts et peutetre a ses talents. Alain jouera le role de 
cartographe, Michel F. accepte d’etre tresorier, Andre 
prendra note des decisions lors des reunions et s’occupera 
de la correspondance, Pierre se perfectionnera en technique 
de reparation des canots, Michel B. sera responsable du 
menu et de la nourriture, tandis que Daniel se preoccupera 
de 1’equipement individuel et collectif. 

Pour Financer le projet (il en coute en moyenne SI00.00 
par individu) chacun apporte une cotisation a chacune des 
rencontres qui se tiennent au rythme de 2 par mois. Pour 
completer la part de chacun, une vente de cerfs-volants fab- 
riques par l’equipe, la distribution de circulaires et enfin du 
travail de nettoyage de terrains en mai. 

Durant toute cette periode de preparation, on e'tudie a 
fond le trajet; consultation des cartes topographiques et des 
relevesde riviere. Une collaboration s’etablit entre le groupe, 
la Federation quebecoise de canot-kayak, le service des 
pares et divers clubs de canotiers. Parce que les cours d’eau 
choisis vont supposer la descente de rapides longs et assez 
difficiles, l’equipe participera a un stage en technique de 
canotage en eau vive. 

LE TRAJET 

Le trajet choisi: depart du lac Montagnais situe dans le 
pare des Laurentides entre La Tuque et Chambord (Lac 
St-Jean). De la, descente de la riviere Metascouac jusqu’a la 
Metabetchouane et le lac du meme nom. Enfin le grand lac 
Bostonnais et la descente de la riviere Bostonnais jusqu’a La 
Tuque. Un parcours d’environ 150 milles dans une nature 
sauvage. 

Le depart s’effectue le 15 aout. Le premiere section dans 
le Parc des Laurentides impressionne par la beaute grandiose 
de son paysage. Lacs et rivieres s’enchainent dans un decor 
de superbes forets de coniferes et de magnifiques montagnes 
au caps majestueux. Camper dans un tel paradis, a la fin de 


Camp Richelieu 
Quatre-Saisons 

L’expedition 

Bostochouane 

chaque journee, fait rapidement oublier tous les desagre- 
ments de la vie urbaine. Le cri du huard, le soleil couchant 
colorant ciel et eau, le bruit sourd du rapide ou des chutes, 
la clarte du ciel etoile provoquent des expressions spontanees 
d’admiration et de satisfaction au contact d’une telle paix. 

La seconde section du parcours, soit la riviere Bostonnais, 
reserve des sensations bien differentes. Le groupe s’attend a 
une riviere tumultueuse, imprevisible qui exige une atten¬ 
tion constante et une bonne lecture des cartes de la riviere. 
Le passage le plus impressionnant est sans aucun doute la 
section dite des “Neuf milles de rapides”. On avait signale 
au groupe que cette section s’averait difficile a franchir en 
canots ouverts et, s’il le tentait, de s’y aventurer sans bagages. 
Conseil judicieux que l’equipe se rejouit d’avoir suivi. Es- 
sayons d’imaginer cette descente meme si une telle descrip¬ 
tion ne reussit pas a traduire toutes les sensations qu’une 
descente quasi ininterrompue de rapides successifs commu¬ 
nique aux canotiers. 

LTMPREV1SIBLE 

Disons tout d’abord que la lecture des cartes indiquant 
laclasse des rapides et leur localisation revet une importance 
capitale. Ajoutons une indispensable competence technique 
de la part des canotiers. Chacun doit avoir experiments a 
fond les diverses manoeuvres qui permettront au canot de 
glisser a gauche ou a droite pour eviter un obstacle en plein 
rapide, de s’immobiliser dans un contre-courant et d’effec- 
tuer des reprises de courants. 

Une fois lance dans la descente, l’avironneur avant doit 
se concentrer sur tout ce qui s’annonce devant lui. Oeil vif 
pour reperer une pierre a peine dissimulee sous l’eau noire, 
reflexe rapide et sur pour decider de la manoeuvre face a un 
obstacle qui surgit, attention constante aux caprices des 



13 


courants pour reperer rapidement Pendroit ou un arret peut 
etre possible a contre-courant. Tout cela exige une Constance 
et une maitrise continuelle car le canot file a vive allure. 

Par contre qu’elle experience a vivre! La satisfaction de 
maitriser son embarcation et de vaincre autant par la force 
de ses bras que par la vivacite de son esprit; Tutilisation 
maximum de ses sens et des elements naturels; Penthou- 
siasme communicatif des quatre equipages et Pechange ner- 
veux mais combien heureux de leurs impressions apres avoir 
reussi une “passe” qui coupe le souffle. En plein bouillon, 
des figures tendues, des yeux rives vers Pobstacle, des 
muscles en alerte et soudain un soupir de satisfaction, un 
large sourire, un cri de victoire, des yeux petillants de fierte. 

A un seul endroit, la temerite l’emporta sur la prudence. 
Un des canots se fit surprendre dans un rapide de classe 3 
dissimule dans une equerre (virage aigu). La vague eut tot 
fait de submerger la frele embarcation. Le sang froid, la 
veste de sauvetage et Paide des compagnons ont heureuse- 
ment limite les degats a de nombreuses eraflures sur les 
jambes des occupants. L’embarcation s’en tira pour la ba¬ 
lance du voyage grace a un rapi^age fait de fort ruban 
adhesif. 

UNE RICHE EXPERIENCE 


la riviere en equipe durant 15 jours, c’est decouvrir beaucoup 
mais c’est surtout se decouvrir. 

NOTE DE CONCLUSION 

Pour obtenir plus de renseignements sur cette expedition 
de canots ou pour visionner le photomontage illustrant les 
peripeties de Paventure, vous pouvez vous adresser a: Camp 
Quatre-Saisons Inc., 20 rue St-Charles, Ste-Therese, P.Q. 

Each year Camp Richelieu Quatre-Saisons gives the 
opportunity to 14 to 17 year old campers to plan, organize, 
train for and realize a long river canoe trip. The above 
article narrates such an adventure on two beautiful rivers 
of the Laurentians, the BOSTOnnais and the Metabet- 
CHOUANE rivers where two counsellors and 6 boys 
travelled 150 miles of that famous water route. 

Edited and translated by Paul Belanger 


AAAAAAAA# 

Organizing a Sailing Program 

(cont'd from page 12) 


Pour chacun des gars de Pequipe, cette expedition s’avera 
une riche experience sur bien des points. D’abord une vie 
d’equipe formidable: entraide, gaiete, partage des responsa- 
bilites et evaluation quotidienne du vecu ensemble. Chaque 
soir, autour du feu, des echanges francs et spontanes ont 
contribue a tisser de solides liens d’amitie. Aussi une fierte 
personnels, une satisfaction d’avoir eu a se surpasser, d’avoir 
surmonte ce qui, a certains moments, semblait infranchis- 
sable: longs et penibles portages, interminables cordelles 
dans Peau jusqu’a la ceinture ou encore le froid qui gagne 
celui dont les vetements sont mouilles. Enfin la decouverte 
d’un pays rude mais combien riche de paysages feeriques, 
tout empreint du calme des grands espaces; les retrouvailles 
avec une vie calquee sur la nature, qui s’y adapte au point 
de se confondre en elle. 

Raconter une telle aventure n’equivaudra jamais a la 
vivre. Tous les gars de Pequipe souhaitent aux lecteurs de 
ces lignes Poccasion de realiser une telle aventure. Affronter 


Awards 

Proficiency awards are given for passing the various levels 
of the testing scheme. 1 dislike the best sailor or racer 
awards as usually the same camper is singled out in a lot of 
different activities. Do, however, recognize those who have 
really tried to improve with awards given in each age group. 
Stress the importance of good boat maintenance by making 
the 'Ship-Shape’ award one to be coveted and sought after. 

Records 

It is essential that records be kept covering all aspects of 
the sailing program. In addition to the usual inventory, 
attendance and progress sheets, keep a book listing all boat 
repairs and by whom they were done. Keep a detailed 
annual record of your total program for future reference. 

In conclusion, I appreciate that there are vast areas to 
cover in organizing a sailing program and I hope you will 
find this article to be of value. Good luck and good sailing! 



GIBBONS FOODS 


makers 


A complete range 

of food products for any meal or any snack. 


Include “CAMP RITE” rations 
in your next outing - full menu selection. 


GIBBONS FOODS LIMITED 

49 ADVANCE ROAD. TORONTO. ONTARIO M8Z 2S6 TEL. 239-1 421 


14 





CHESTNUT CANOE CO. LTD 

OROMOCTO, N.B. 


OVER 75 YEARS OF SERVICE TO CANADIAN CAMPERS 


WE HAVE A CANOE FOR EVERY PURPOSE 


Write to the Chestnut Canoe Co. Ltd., P.O. Box 185, Oromocto, N.B 

for Free Literature and Prices 





MORE BOOKS FOR LEADERS 


14 Citizen Boards at Work 

New Challenges to Effective Action 

by Harieigh B. Trecker 
All about how boards of health, 
education, and welfare agencies 
work. Dr. Trecker brings together 
information on how policy is form¬ 
ed that leads to effective agency 
action. An excellent book to give 
to a new board member or for use 
in staff training. 

288 pages hard cover $7.50 

15 Social Work Administration 

Principles and Practices 

by Harieigh B. Trecker 
Another Trecker book that is a 
basic guide for social agency ad¬ 
ministrators, staff members, and 
students in schools of social work. 

287 pages hard cover $9.95 

16 Handbook of Special Events 
for Nonprofit Organizations 

by Edwin R. Leibert and 
Bernice E. Sheldon 
This book is chock-full of ideas for 
fund raising and the building of a 
public relations program for group 
work agencies of all kinds. Church¬ 
es, group work organizations, such 
as the Y's, Scouts, Salvation Army, 
etc., will find information directed 
to their PR and fund raising prob¬ 
lems. 

224 pages hard cover $12.95 

17 Goals for Social Welfare 

An Overview of the Next Two 
Decades by Harieigh B. Trecker 
In this book an outstanding educa¬ 
tor presents an overview of the 
next two decades in the social work 
field as seen through the eyes of 
its most outstanding practitioners. 

288 pages hard cover $12.00 

18 Creative Programming for 
Older Adults 

by Florence E. Vickery 
This is a guidebook dfrected to the 
needs of those who wish to start 
senior citizen groups or enrich ones 
already organized. It can well be a 
training guide for volunteers and 
stimulation for professional group- 
workers. 

320 pages hard cover $12.95 


NEW! 

28 COMMUNICATION METHODS 

This hook is for all who wish to imp¬ 
rove their skills in writing, speaking 
or using visual media. It should he on 
the shelf of every agency library and a 
part of every professional in-service 
training program. 

308 pages hardbound $ 6.95 

29 THE FOLKWAYS OMNIBUS 
OF CHILDREN'S GAMES 

This fine hook will help children learn 
about the world's peoples and pasts 
through the games they played. It will 
provide many fun/educational exper¬ 
iences as children play the games of 
people around the world. 

320 pages hardbound $ 8.95 


21 The Boy’s Book of 
Rainy-Day Doings 

by Allan A. Macfarlan 
160 pages full of stunts, tricks, 
contests and games to provide the 
physical outlet boys need for those 
rainy days at day camp, resident 
camp or just for club groups' in¬ 
door events. Don't let the title fool 
you—the activities work well with 
girls, too. Illustrated. 

160 pages hard cover $4.50 

22 Learning About Nature 
Through Crafts 

by Virginia W. Musselman 
Ideal for camps, day and resident, 


as well as park and playground 
programs that desire a truly educa¬ 
tional program as well as inexpen¬ 
sive crafts projects. 

128 pages hard cover $3.98 

23 Effective Groupwork 

An Introduction to Principle and 
Method by Alan F. Klein 
This is a basic book about how 
groups are formed and for what 
purposes. It goes into the social 
groupworker's beliefs and the ele¬ 
ments that make up successful 
groupwork. This is a must for every 
groupwork library, for in-service 
training, and individual profession¬ 
al growth. 

384 pages hard cover $9.95 

24 Introduction to Group 
Dynamics 

by Malcolm and Hulda Knowles 
A small book that goes into the 
subject of group dynamics as to 
what it is, its main ideas, its langu¬ 
age, and its applications. A good 
book for the new professional who 
needs an introduction to an impor¬ 
tant subject. 

96 pages hard cover $4.50 

27 Sources of Summer Staff 

by Howard Galloway 
A good staff is the most important 
ingredient of any summer camp, 
playground, or recreational pro¬ 
gram. In this helpful book, Howard 
Galloway draws on his twenty-five 
years as editor and publisher of 
Camping Magazine to tell how to 
find, interview, and select the very 
best in summer staff. Includes doz¬ 
ens of practical tips. 

149 pages paperback $3.95 


Please send me the following circled books: 

14 15 16 17 18 21 22 23 24 27 28 29 

Name . . Title . 

Employer . 

Street and No. . 

City and State . Zip Code . 

Wo pay postago if chock accompanies order. 


Order from GALLOWAY CORP., 5 Mountain Avenue, North Plainfield, N. J. 07060 


16 










THE OUTDOORSMAN 


by Larry R. Johnston 

Coarse Angling 


The gentleman who offered his 
assistance to land the fish was using a 
large heavy duty landing net, but the 
big northern went through it without 
hesitation. The situation finally called 
for a sharp gaff to secure the four foot, 
34 lb. monster and when the little 
French-Canadian girl 1 had been watch¬ 
ing examined her fish, she seemed to 
have mixed emotions. It was fun to 
catch, but the gaff had rendered it 
quite dead and it could not be released. 
In addition, it had ruined her perfectly 
good lure. 

That was about 15 years ago, when 
a pike was considered a snake, unfit 
forhuman consumption and little more 
than a bait-stealing nuisance. The more 
palatable trout, walleye (pike-perch) 
and perch were the highly sought-after 
game species angled in waters where 
dastardly pike were prepared to chew 
lures and snap rods. 

Fish Commissioners in 1875 stated 
that the pike were “Modocs of our 
waters who apparently mutilate and 
kill their more amiable, Quaker-like 
neighbours upon the total depravity 
principle.” Classified with such coarse 
fish as carp, mullets, and suckers, a 
policy of extermination existed in 
many areas and it wasn’t until 1917 
that a good word was spoken about 
them. William Kendall wrote, “It is also 
beginning to be recognized that there 
are still places for pike in both the 
human and natural economy. For ex¬ 
ample, there have been waters in which 
some pike and other fish have lived in 
reciprocal counterpoise from time im¬ 
memorial, notwithstanding the con¬ 
demned ‘characteristic voracity of the 
pike.’ 

It was about this time that American 
anglers began to pay close attention to 
the pike and by 1930, a legal length 
and daily limit were imposed in many 
States. We Canadians, however, still 
considered pike fishing a waste of time. 

By 1938, biologists suggested that 
there might be a correlation between 
the abundance of large predator fish 
and the size and abundance of other 


fish in the same body of water. More 
evidence was added in 1948 to the 
importance of northern pike in lakes. 
A fish population and catch data report 
stated that the pike were the most 
valuable predatory fish from the stand¬ 
point of fishery management. In Sa¬ 
skatchewan it was noted that a decrease 
in pike would upset the balance and 
result in an increase in the numbers of 
perch and, at the same time, stunt the 
growth of these smaller fish. Through¬ 
out Canada today, it is thought that 
good fishing is the result of a healthy 
pike population and for this reason, 
pike are protected during the spawning 
season and legal limits are strictly en¬ 
forced during the open season. 

Esox Indus L., probably evolved in 
southern Europe during the Cretaceous 
period 60 to 120 million years ago and 
during this period, a broad connection 
existed at the present Bering Strait 
where the pike may have spread 
through coastwise marshes to Canada. 
Another theory leads us to believe the 
fish swam through the fresh water of 
melting ice which floated above the 
saline ocean water in the Arctic. 

Today, the pike is widely spread 
throughout Canada and can be found 
inmost lakes and rivers with the excep¬ 
tion of those draining into the Pacific 
from British Columbia. Of course there 
are other scattered areas in which the 
pike cannot survive, but they are rare 
indeed. 

Although in England there is only 
one species representing the pike 
family, there are several in Canada. To 
simplify matters however, the northern 
pike is the most plentiful and widely 
distributed. 

Canadian pike angling methods. 

Excellent sport is to be enjoyed by 
those who fly-fish for pike using ultra¬ 
light tackle. When the fish strikes a 
surface fly, it is an impressive sight, 
regardless of the fish's size. Spin-casting 
(spinning) is the most popular method 
of angling and it, too, is exciting. The 
fish will hit a spoon, jig or full-bodied 
lure. 



During the spring and summer 
months, pike can be found in slow- 
moving, weedy rivers and in the shallow 
bays of most lakes, but the important 
factor is timing and the cool periods of 
the day are most productive. During 
the fall, the northern pike tend to go 
deeper so that weed-beds in 15 to 20 
feet of water produce the best results. 
Throughout the day, jigs, livebait and 
deep-running lures work well. In winter, 
pike are taken through the ice, but it is 
usual for most of the larger Fish to 
escape.The angler’s line inevitably rubs 
the sharp ice around the edge of the 
hole and breaks. Dedicated or perhaps 
over-enthusiastic anglers have been 
known to plunge their amis into the 
water to prevent line breakage, but this 
practice is not advised. Many anglers 
have lost fingers and even hands. 

1 have had pike straighten hooks on 
lures, jump into my boat, slice through 
wire leaders and take lure, line rod and 
reel to the depths of a lake. As I men¬ 
tioned earlier, pike are an easy fish to 
hook, but they can be impossible 
to land. 

The popularity of pike fishing is 
growing rapidly in Canada and special 
tactics are being developed especially 
for them, but those under 10 lb. receive 
little attention from the serious angler. 

The visitor to any Province in Canada 
can fish thousands of lakes and rivers 
for a non-resident fee of approximately 
SI0.00 per year and find northerns in 
just about ever}' body of water. For 
me, the angling is free, but if you con¬ 
sider the equipment lost each year to 
the fighting pike, it still costs a small 
fortune. 



Photo courtesy of Ontario Dept, of Tourism 
& Information 


17 



ft 


HAMBURG WITH CHEESE 

Divide the hamburg in half to make 
two flat patties. Place one on foil, and 
in the centre of it put minced onion 
and sharp cheddar cheese. Lay the 
second patty on this and crimp the two 
patties together, to make one cake. 
Season. Seal in foil and cook on the 
coals, turning the package once or 
twice. 

GYPSY EGG SANDWICH 

Cut 2 slices of bacon into small pieces. 
Cook until crisp. Add an egg and 
scramble. Serve between slices of toast 
or bread. Yield: 1 sandwich. 

FRAN KS-IN-A-B LAN KET 

Mix prepared biscuit mix and roll out 
(or pat out) % inch thick pieces large 
enough to surround each Frank but let 
it protrude V2 inch or so at each end. 
Place on foil sheet, bring foil around 
and seal securely. Cook 15 minutes, 
turning frequently. 

TUNA BURGERS 

2 6/2 oz. cans tuna, flaked 

2 cups thinly-sliced celery 
Vi cup chopped peanuts 
Yi tsp. salt 

2 tsp. grated onion 

1 cup mayonnaise 

2 tblsp. lemon juice 
Vi cup grated cheese 

10 hamburger buns 
Mix all ingredients, except buns. Split 
and butter buns and fill with tuna mix¬ 
ture. Wrap each Tuna Burger in alumi¬ 
num foil. Place in 450° oven and heat 
10 to 15 minutes or cook in a reflector 
oven. 

HARD SAUCE 

1/3 cup margarine, creamed 

1 cup sugar (confectioners’ 
preferably) 

2 tblsp. liquid 

The liquid can be cream, milk, coffee, 
fruit juice, etc. Blend margarine and 
sugar, and beat in the liquid until 
blended and foamy. If milk or cream is 
used, add a dash of cinnamon or 
nutmeg. 


APPLE BETTY 

I/2 cups cubed bread, broken 
crackers, plain cookies, break¬ 
fast foods (even if soggy!) 

!4 cup margarine 
8 medium-sized apples pared, 
cored, sliced 
1 tsp. cinnamon 

1 cup brown or white sugar 
!4 tsp. salt 

4 tsp. lemon juice or equivalent 
extract 
14 cup water 

Toss the bread and melted margarine 
together. Toss apples, cinnamon, sugar, 
and salt together. Put a third of the 
buttered bread cubes in a pan. Add a 
layer of half the apples, a layer of a 
third bread cubes, the rest of the 
apples, and the rest of the bread cubes. 
Sprinkle the lemon juice and water 
over this. Cover and bake in moderate 
heat for about an hour. A short time 
before the dessert is done, remove 
cover to brown the crust. 

BREAD PUDDING 

A recipe for using stale bread, broken 
cookies or crackers, soggy breakfast 
foods, etc. 

2 cups bread crumbs (or as above) 

3 cups milk, scalded 

!4 cup margarine, melted 
Vi cup sugar 

3 eggs, beaten or equivalent 
powder 

Vi tsp. nutmeg or other flavouring 
V 2 tsp. salt 
!A cup raisins 

Put the bread in a pan or baking dish 
and pour scalded milk over it. When 
cool, stir in all other ingredients. Bake 
slowly, uncovered, for about an hour. 
Let the top get crispy. 

Bread pudding can be varied by adding 
chocolate, fruits, nuts, etc. Also try it 
with Hard Sauce. 


Editor's Note: The above recipes are among 
many in the cook book entitled "Cookery 
for Kids, Kamp 'n Kicks"by Helen Stewart. 



There’s no such thing as a tough cut of 
meat! Flavour may vary from one cut 
to another, but any cut of meat will 
be at its tender best when cooked in 
the least amount of time necessary. 
And because cuts of meat vary in com¬ 
position, different cooking methods 
can help the tenderness. How can you 
be sure it will be tender? The shape of 
the bone in the meat cut can be a 
guide. Cuts with angular and flat bones 
T-bone, pin bone, wedge bone, round 
bone—all represent the more tender 
steaks and roasts. Cuts with round 
bones, shoulder blade bone and lower 
rib bones indicate less tender cuts of 
meat. 

Here is a general guide for ways to 
cook beef, lamb and pork cuts — 

Most tender cuts: Broil or pan broil — 
Cook in an oven broiler or in a very hot 
skillet a short length of time until de¬ 
sired doneness. Turn only once (or 
barbecue over hot coals or grill). 

Roast — Cook in an open pan in an 
oven with no liquid at a moderate to 
low temperature 300°F to 325°F (or 
on a spit over coals or in oven) — 

15-20 minutes per lb. for rare 

20-25 minutes per lb. for medium 

25-30 minutes per lb. for well done 
Fry — Cook or brown in hot liquid fat 
or oil, either completely covered with 
cooking fat as in deep fat frying or only 
partially covered. 

Less tender cuts: Braise — Cook by 
browning in fat, then simmer just be¬ 
low the boiling point in very little 
liquid in a covered pan (oven or top 
of stove). 

Least tender cuts: Simmer — Cook 
slowly and gently in 1 to 2 cups of 
liquid for a long time in a covered 
kettle until tender. 

Less tender, but: If you like beef 
cooked medium rare to rare . . . then 
broil, pan broil, or barbecue these cuts. 


“Conseils” pour depanner a la maison 
et sauver du temps . . . sorte de guide 
pour mieux cuisiner. 


—Helen E. Stewart 


18 









Along the Bookshelf 


NEW DIMENSIONS IN YOUTHWORK 

Compiled and Edited by Howard P. Galloway 
182 pages. Galloway Publications, North Plainfield, 

N.J. 07060; $9.95 

This book is for the camp director who wants to be truly 
professional. It is a compilation of in-depth articles that will 
give anyone who works with children new ideas, new 
approaches, and, above all, a new understanding of those 
complicated creatures who are called ‘today’s youth’. 

Howard Galloway has edited and published the American 
Camping Association magazine for the past 27 years. Un¬ 
doubtedly his judgment in selecting the best from recent 
publications in magazines, newspapers and original sub¬ 
missions makes the 21 highly varied articles a collection 
that should be in the library of every progressive camp 
director who wishes to broaden his knowledge. 

The book is divided into seven sections. 

1. Priority One — Guiding Today’s Youth 

2. Program with Plan and Purpose 

3. Leaders - The Unsung Heroes 

4. A Sound Mind and a Sound Body 

5. Raising the Money to do the Job 

6. Buildings, Equipment and Facilities 

7. Management. 

These section titles give some idea of the scope of this 
valuable book. Ann Prewitt 


ALERT: AQUATIC SUPERVISION IN ACTION 

—by Jocelyn Palm. A technical publication of The Royal 
Life Saving Society Canada, 550 Rue Church Street, 
Toronto, Ontario M4Y 2E1. $5.95 plus 65tf mailing charge. 
Ce livre est disponible en franca is en decembre 1974 
After careful perusal of this new book, it is our honest 
opinion it has a definite place on the bookshelf of every 
parent, school library and recreation department, as well as 
every camp director, swimming pool operator, lifeguard, 
swimming instructor and camp counsellor . . . indeed, any¬ 
one who is concerned with all aspects of water safety should 
regard this publication as a "must”. Mary Jane Sanderson 
We have repeated this Book Review because of its impor¬ 
tance. For further details , see November 1974 issue. 


P.G. GILBERT, M.R.A.I.C., ARCHITECT 

PLANNING AND BUILDING CONSULTANT TO CAMPS 


13 MAPLE AVENUE, TORONTO, ONTARIO M4W 2T5 
(416) 921-7384 

Professor, Ryerson Polytechnical Institute, Toronto 
(416) 595-5189 



The QUALITY, WORKMANSHIP and DELIVERY 

that we have to offer you on our SCOUT TENTS is 
very seldom equalled by others. Write or call for 
our free, current price list. 


[anvos Equipment limited 


P.O. Box 519 or 239 St. Sacrament Street 

Cornwall, Ontario Montreal, 125, Quebec 

613-933-2925 514-849-6152 


19 

















=5 CQ 


service problems with 

royal Chinet 

disposable plates and bowls 

Strong, attractive Royal CHINET food service products help you ... 

• DISPOSE OF DISHWASHING COSTS 

Cut the expense of installing, maintaining and manning equipment 
that is used only a few months of the year. 

• DISPOSE OF BREAKAGE 

Save yourself the trouble and expense of buying matching replace¬ 
ments for pieces that crack, chip and shatter. 

• DISPOSE OF FOOD WASTE 

You get exact portion control with Royal CHINET’s wide range of 
* ^ sizes in regular and compartmented designs. 

• DISPOSE OF GERM COLLECTORS 

Royal CHINET products are sterilized when manufactured and 
packaged. And there’s never a germ-collecting chip, crack or 
poorly washed dish. 

• DISPOSE OF IRRITATING NOISE 

Disposable service is silent service. Meals are relaxed without the 
clatter and crash of china or metal. 

ENVIRONMENTAL ADVANTAGES, TOO 

All good campers want to protect the environment. Royal CHINET prod¬ 
ucts are manufactured from a renewable resource. What’s more, they’re 
biodegradable .. . molded of natural wood fibres that burn readily with 
little smoke. Even if discarded out-of-doors, Royal CHINET quickly de¬ 
composes in the earth. 

Get the full particulars now. Mail this coupon today. 

CANADIAN KEYES FIBRE COMPANY LTD. 
HANTSPORT, NOVA SCOTIA 

Please provide me with details of the variety and costs of Royal 
CHINET food service products. 


i 1 NAME 1 A 

1 j COMPANY or CAMP 



fc! / 4s 1 ADDRESS 



O&Ejl 1 . CITY 

PROV. 



mUL 













































