Canadian 

camping 


FOOD PURCHASING AT CAMP 


PURCHASING 


The topic of purchasing is a very complex one, I have had a slogan for the 
last few years; "what you can buy today, you cannot buy tomorrow." For example - 
coffee. I bought a whole year's supply of coffee in June '76. That coffee, just 
sitting on the shelf, has made almost 100$. Do you recall the sugar prices of a 
while ago? The writing was on the wall, but I wonder how many bought sugar at 
$21 per bag and how many paid $91 at peak price? If I'm correct that's 300$, and 
that kind of expense can save or ruin your operation. 

Buy direct. Presently. I'm dealing with 25 companies. I keep charts from 
year to year on each company by each month. 


One other very important thing on buying; as I mentioned, I am dealing 
with 25 companies, and I never, ever turn a salesman away. I always listen to 
him. He might have a special in which I might be interested. Ask him to quote 
his specials. Don't let him think he's giving you a special deal. He isn't. 
You're buying. You have to make a decision right then and there about whether 
that price is right. It isn't accidental that different companies have entirely 
different sized packaging and that they try to convince you that they are cheaper 
than their competitors. You have to convert ounce by ounce and pound by pound 


4 


(continued on page 3 ) 



SUITE 203. 102 EGLINTON AVENUE EAST 
TELEPHONE (416) 488-7345 


THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION / L’ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU CANADA 


OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 


TORONTO. ONTARIO M4P1E1 


Vol. 30 No. 1 
February 1978 








A Director's Checklist 


by Eanswythe Flynn 

We hope all camp directors are clipping these articles for their scrap book of re¬ 
minders. You will recall that in the October and December Newsletters, we reprinted 
lists of suggested duties for November through February. Here are Mrs. Flynn's 
"musts" for March. 


MARCH 


Last call to complete income tax forms. 
Work closely with bookkeeper and auditor. 

Check fire extinguishers; have a company 
specializing in safety equipment (or the 
local Fire Department) look over*each one 
see that the pressure gauge is operating 
and the tank full. Consider purchase of 
further extinguishers and ask camp main¬ 
tenance man to check fire hoses, nozzles 
and attachments. 

Discuss with dietician or cook new menus 
or new ways of serving food. Consider 
use or non-use of margarine and skim 
milk in the general camp menu, for table 
use, that is. 

If staff has been hired, or if a high 
percentage of last year's staff is re¬ 
turning, this is the time to hold first 
meetings. 

Perhaps your job analyses are not expres¬ 
sed as well as they should be. Review 
these as well as the staff manual. 

Interview as many as possible in the way 
of prospects for vacant positions; avoid 
that last minute panic. 

If it is possible to get in to the camp 
property, do so, for the first examina¬ 
tion of property, equipment, beaver and 
mouse damage, ice and frost damage to 
docks, steps, tent platforms, etc. 

Outline necessary tree planting you would 
like to do this spring. Ask advice of 
local tree experts or the Ministry of 
Natural Resources. 


Keep in touch with your provincial camping 
association for any changes in legislation 
such as labour regulations, Unemployment 
Insurance, salary scales, fees for canoe 
trippers in provincial parks, etc. 

Attend camping conferences, seminars and 
regular meetings of the camping fraternity 
whenever they are offered. Don't miss one! 

See that arrangements are made with the 
Royal Life Saving Society about clinics 
and courses for waterfront staff atten¬ 
dance. 

Keep abreast of market prices on all equip¬ 
ment, food and supplies, to keep the sum¬ 
mer budget in line. Compare prices. See 
that you are getting the best possible 
values and this includes regular delivies 
and general good service in order to re¬ 
lieve worry. 


Canadian camping 

is published 6 times a year 
by the 

Canadian Camping Association 
102 Eglinton Ave., E. # 203 

Toronto, Ontario M4P 1E1 

(416) 488-7345 

SUBSCRIPTION RATES 

1 year $5.00 
3 years $12.00 


2 





Food Purchasing, Budgeting and Menus at Camp (cont. from page 1 ) 

and then you will find who is cheaper. 

Buy carefully, don't buy poor quality. For example, a couple of years ago 
I received a very odd-looking shipment of weiners. I got on the phone right 
away. The company apologized and said they would never have sent that ship¬ 
ment to me - it was meant for the hostipal! Make sure that when you buy, and 
especially if you buy a large quantity'at a very special price, that you either 
buy it with the option of returning it if you don't like it or that you buy a 
small amount, say ten or fifteen pounds, cook it thoroughly and then order the 
larger amount when you are sure it is what you want. Don't jump ahead and buy 
just because it is a fantastic price. 

The success of your operation also depends on checking the garbage every 
day. Check to see how heavy that garbage bag is. Be watchful that the amount 
of "waste" does not increase during the summer due to careless food handling by 
the staff. 

Help the supplier. Some people are very unreasonable. They order five 
pounds of this or that when they run out, and want it sent down right away. 

Don't make an extra trip for the truck. It costs the supplier, so I have been 
told, $15 to stop the truck. Somebody is going to have to pay that $15 and it 
isn't going to be the supplier. If you play ball with the supplier, he will 
look after you very well. However, nothing is free. 

While I am speaking of phoning and ordering, make sure you don't add ex¬ 
tra expenses. Most companies now have "Call Collect" policies, so when I say 
don't add extra expense I mean don't realize ten minutes after the call that 
you forgot to order something and call again twenty minutes later. Make sure, 
when you know the salesman is coming in that you have the order ready. However, 
if you have a complaint and must call, make doubly sure that you call collect. 

INVENTORY 

If you are buying in bulk, you will have to carry a large inventory. Some 
of my colleagues are against bulk buying because they feel it is an extra head¬ 
ache to control the inventory. Presently, I have at least $35,000 or $40,000 in— 

(cont. on page 4 ) 


3 






(oont from page 3 ) 


Food Purchasing, Budgeting and Menus at Camp 

ventory in my storeroom and I have no problem with this. I don't lose a pound of 
coffee or a pound of butter. 

Don't try to save a couple of dollars on your staff or your cook. If you want 
top-notch employees, you are going to have to pay the price. Make sure your staff 
is busy. Don't ask the impossible from your staff, but make sure they do a full 
days work. I have never had any problem with the staff when they are busy. The 
complaining always starts when they have nothing to do and have the time to pick on 
each other. 

MENUS 


In drawing up menus, you have to be very flexible. Keep any likes and dislikes 
in mind. NO ROTATING MENUS. I cannot press this point strongly enough. It is much 
easier to have a rotating menu because you make it up once and then have it for" the 
next few years. But, the kids coming into the dining room will know that the first 
Wednesday is macaroni and cheese, the first Saturday is spaghetti and so on. I plan 
the menu every week and, besides avoiding having the children know the menu, It helps 

the food costs, because I'm not pushed to serve roast pork because the menu says 

roast pork. There are many other items I can serve which may be more reasonable that 
week. Likes and dislikes are funny things. With the same group of people of the 
same age, the tastes can change from year to year. 

Don't cook food that you can't utilize afterwards. When you feed on demand it 
is unavoidable having left-overs. So, plan on your menu to use the left-overs the 
next day of the day after. Save food, but use it while it is still good. I 

On your menus, and especially on tripping menus at camp, you can save quite a 

lot by buying in bulk. Don't let your tripping director influence you, even if he 

has been doing it his way for fifteeen years. If you are running the food service 
he is going to change. His job is to make sure the kids have a good route, your job 
is to make sure the kids have good food at the best possible price. If he has to 
open a five pound package of juice crystals and re-package it into five smaller pack¬ 
ages, point out why and have him do it. Don't buy the two-ounce or three-ounce pack¬ 
ages or whatever, because you have no idea how much you are paying for that packaging. 
Some items I would go along with having individual packages, especially is it is a 
long canoe trip, but I would say that 75% of the food could come from the kitchen and 
not the trip room and be bulk packaged. 


Finally, I would like to suggest - visiting other camps. This is really worth¬ 
while. You always learn something. From some I have learned not to make the same 
mistakes, and that is an equally important lesson. 

To some it up. I would briefly mention that budgeting, purchasing and menu 
planning are very complex. It means dedication, somebody who doesn't watch the time, 
and who is available when he thinks he ought to be. Be sure you are there when a 
big delivery comes. Examine your merchandise quality and quantity-wise. Drivers 
very often make mistakes and it's always ten pounds of bacon or a case of salmon. 
Today, as you know, suppliers have written on the invoice that, once the truck pulls 
out, they are no longer responsible. Mind you, if you are honest and fair with them, 
they will be honest and fair with you. I have phoned and received credit with no 
questions asked. However, occasionally some smaller company will try to make mis¬ 
takes in their favour. When this happens, simply tell them you are sorry that the 

_ (cont. on page 5 ) 








!♦ 



TRAVEL FOR FRIENDSHIP.. 
ITS PRICELESS. 


OPEN HOUSE 


Secretary Secretariat 
of State d'£tat 


HOSPITALITY 


Secretariat Secretary 
d'£tat of State 


Open House Canada invites anyone 
between the ages of 14 and 22 to 
discover Canada, its geography, its 
people; to meet other young people 
like themselves in another part of 
Canada and visit them for a minimum 
of 5 days either in a group or as an 
individual ... and Open House Canada 
will pay the fare 


To learn more about this youth exchange 
program sponsored by the Department of 
the Secretary of State of Canada; 

Please send your name, address, city, 
province and postal code to: 

Open House Canada 
66 Slater Street 
Ottawa, Ontario K1A 0M5 




Purchasing, 


"Canada is your land and this is your chance to see it." 


Budgeting ... 


OPEN HOUSE CANADA 


(cont. from page 4) 

mistakes always seem to be with their 
company, and don't deal with them again. 

Being aware of good buys, long 
range changes in price, flexibility in 
menus and, careful supervision of staff 
will help make for a successful, satis¬ 
fying summer for the kids and for the 
camp. 

Mr. Elmer Bogyay, is food manager at 
Trinity College Schools 

********* 

"When angry, count ten before you speak; 
if very angry, a hundred." 

- T. Jefferson 

"Education covers a lot of ground, but 
does not cultivate it." 

Anon. 


It was originally hoped that the C.C.A.I 
could initiate a program utilizing the 1 
travel arrangements offered by Open House 
Canada. Unfortunately, this was not pos¬ 
sible, but the above notice is included in 
this Newsletter in case individual camps 
wish to participate. 




It f s not work to walk. 
So why not walk to 
work? 




mxnapjrnonm 
Walk a Mock-Today. 


5 



THE INDIAN'S CREED 


1. While he believed in many gods, he accepted the idea of one Supreme Spirit, who 
was everywhere all the time; whose help was needed continually, and might be se¬ 
cured by prayer and sacrifice. 

2. He believed in the immortality of the soul, and that its future condition was to 
be determined by its behavior in this life. 

3. He reverenced his body as the sacred temple of his spirit; and believed it his 
duty in all ways to perfect his body, that his earthly record might be better. 

4. He believed in the subjection of the body by fasting, whenever it seemed necessa: 
for the absolute domination of the spirit; as when, in some great crisis, that 
spirit felt the need for better insight, 

5. He believed in reverence for his parents, and in old age supported them, even as 
he expected his children to support him. 

6 . He believed in the sacredness of property. Theft among Indians was unknown. 

7. He believed in cleanliness of body. 

8 . He believed in purity of morals. 

9- He believed in speaking the truth, nothing but the truth. His promise was abso¬ 
lutely binding. He hated and despised a liar, and held all falsehood to be an 
abomination. 

10. He believed in beautifying all things in his life. 

He had a song for every occasion - a beautiful prayer for every stress. His gar 
ments were made beautiful with painted patterns, feathers, and quill work. He 
had dances for every fireside. He has led the world in the making of beautiful 
baskets, blankets, and canoes; while the decorations he put on lodges, weapons, 
clothes, dishes, and dwellings, beds, cradles, or grave-boards, were among the 
countless evidences of his pleasure in the beautiful, as he understood it. 

11. He believed in the simple life. 

He held, first, that land belonged to the tribe, not to the individual; next, 
that the accumulation of property was the beginning of greed that grew into mon¬ 
strous crime. 

12. He believed in peace and the sacred obligations of hospitality. 

13. He believed that the noblest of virtues was courage, and that, above all other 

qualities, he worshipped and prayed for. So also he believed that the most 
shameful of crimes was being afraid. 

14. He believed that he should live his life so that the fear of death could never 

enter into his heart; that when the last call came, he should put on the paint 

and honours of a hero going home, then sing his death song and meet the end in 
triumph. 

-Seton, Ernest Thompson, The Book of Woodcraft and Indian Lore , Doubleday, New York. 







Medical Supplies for the Camp Infirmary 

by J. Harry Ebbs, M.D., F.R.C.P. 


The following list of supplies is 
suggested for a residential summer 
camp for children with an enrolment 
of about fifty to one hundred campers. 
Specific quality, brand name or supplier 
have not been mentioned since many 
of them are local, and doctors attend¬ 
ing the camp may have individual 
preferences. Different quantities may 
be ordered more economically, but 
those listed would at least be satis¬ 
factory for the original equipping of 
an infirmary. 

First aid supplies for out-trips are 
not included in this list of medical 
supplies. 

Enamelware: 

1 Wash basin, 12 to 15 inches in 
diameter (one for each infirm¬ 
ary bed) 

1 Solution bowl 
1 Kidney basin (curved) 

1 Instrument container with lid 
1 Instrument tray 
1 Bed Pan - adult size 
1 Bed Pan - child size 

Glassware: 

6 Medicine Glasses — graduated 
6 Thermometers - stubby 
6 Medicine droppers — straight 
6 Bottles (empty) with caps 
25 Disposable Syringes - hypoder¬ 
mic 2 c.c. 

1 Glass jug - graduated - 16 oz. 

Rubber Goods: 

2 Hot Water Bottles — stopperless 
1 Ice Cap 

1 Ear Syringe (large) 

Miscellaneous: 

1 Balance Scales (weight) 

1 Pair Crutches - adjustable 
1 Waste Receptacle 
1 Hand Brush 
12 Safety Pins 
1 Tourniquet 
1 Folding Stretcher 
1 Electric Sterilizer 
1 Goose-neck Lamp 
1 Small Refrigerator 
1 Metal Cabinet - locked 

1 Box Drinking Straws 

2 Boxes Tongue Blades (child size) 

1 Box Wooden Applicators - 6” 

1 Tin Talcum Powder 


Instruments: 

1 Pair Scissors - 5-1 /2” (chrome)- 
one sharp and one blunt point 
1 Pair Scissors - bandage - 5-1/2” 
1 Forceps - splinter - 4-1/2” 

1 Pair Forceps - dressing - 5” 

25 Disposable Needles — hypo¬ 
dermic - #25 

2 Haemostat Forceps 

Bandages: 

12 Gauze bandage — 1” x 5 yds. 

12 Gauze bandage - 2” x 5 yds. 

12 Gauze bandage - 3” x 5 yds. 

6 Crepe bandage - 3” x 5 yds. 

6 Flannel bandage - 3” x 5 yds. 

3 Triangular bandage - cotton 

Dressings: 

1 Package - 30 - Gauze Pads 
(sterile) 3” x 3” 

1 Package - 36 - Gauze and cotton 
pads (sterile) 6” x 6” 

1 Package — Gauze — plain — 5 yds. 
1 Box - 100 - Adhesive Dressings 
(waterproof) - 3/4” x 3” 

1 Roll Adhesive Tape — 12” x 
10 yds. (assorted width cuts) 

1 Wall Rack for above 
1 Roll Absorbent Cotton - 1 lb. 

Antiseptics: 

16 Ounces Rubbing Alcohol 
16 Ounces Antiseptic Solution, e.g. 
Zephirin Chloride (aqueous or 
tincture), Metaphen (tincture) 
etc. 

8 Ounces Hydrogen Peroxide 3% 

1 Tin B.F.I. Powder 

16 Ounces Liquid Paraffin 

Tablets: 

500 ASA - 5 grains 
100 ASA and Codeine (grains 1/4) 
200 Tablets Milk of Magnesia 
100 Tablets Phenobarbital grains 1 /2 
100 Tablets Pyribenzamine 50 mgms 
100 Tablets Penicillin 250,000 units 
100 Tablets Triple Sulpha 
100 Capsules Achromycin 
16 Ounces Kaopectate or Kaosorb 

2 Ounces Earache Drops 

2 Ounces Toothache Drops 

4 Ounces Nose Drops 

(1% Ephedrine) 


O 

Ointments: 

1 Lb. Jar Petrolatum Alba 
16 Ounces Calamine Cream 

1 Ounce tube Eye Ointment 
Neosporin 

1 Tube Pyribenzamine Cream 

1 Tube Polysporin Ointment 

1 Tube Steroid Ointment as pre¬ 
scribed by physician 

It is expected that the above would 
be modified if a hospital or doctor’s 
office was in near proximity. 

It would be expected that the doc¬ 
tor would write prescriptions for any 
special drugs, equipment or special 
dressings, etc. 

The attending doctor would provide 
or order his own instruments Such as 
scalpel, special forceps, scissors, sutur¬ 
ing material, ear curettes, special 
syringes, rubber gloves, oral thermo¬ 
meter and such special injectibles as 
adrenalin, steroids, local anaesthetic, 
narcotic drugs, penicillin for injection, 
etc. He would probably also provide 
anaesthetic material, ampules of saline 
or glucose solution, and would order 
intravenous sets if indicated. Elastic 
Adhesive Bandages, Plaster Bandages, 
Limb Supports and Special Dressings 
would also be best provided by the 
physician. Emergency injection, inhala¬ 
tion and oral medication for severe 
allergy and reaction to bites should be 
provided if not in close proximity. 
Similarly in areas known to require 
possible first aid, a snake bite kit should 
be available. The doctor will order such 
things as tetanus toxoid and will have 
information for getting rabies informa¬ 
tion if necessary. The director in con¬ 
sultation with the doctor should have 
suitable and adequate illness and acci¬ 
dent record forms. 

The above is recommended for first 
aid by a physician or nurse assuming 
that this service would be provided for 
the camp population not for general 
public and that all other emergency or 
more serious conditions would be re¬ 
ferred to a hospital. + 


7 






MEET YOUR CCA EXECUTIVE. 


Following the C.C.A. Annual Meeting in Squamish, B.C. and the C.C.A. Board 
meeting in Moncton, N.B., the following members were elected and appointed to the 
C.C.A. Executive. We thought you would be interested in knowing something about 
them. 


President 


Jack Pearse 


President of C.C.A. 
g j for the 1977-1979 

1 term, Jack lives in 

Waterloo, Ontario. 

He began directing camps in 1949? in the 
early years of the Y.M.C.A.s in Charlotte¬ 
town and in Ottawa. Since 1961, he has 
been the Director of Camp Tawingo, a year- 
round camp in the Muskoka District of 
Ontario. He was the first President of 
the Eastern Ontario Camping Association, 
i is a past-president of the Ontario Cam- 
iPing Association and is the current 
jchairman of the O.C.A.'s Past Presidents' 
i Council. 


Ron Johnstone 


I Involved in all 
! phases of camping, 
from camper to di- 
■ rector at many 
j YMCA camps both in 
| Ontario and Sas¬ 
katchewan, Ron set- 
! tied in London, Ont. 
in 1955. He still 
lives in London, but 
spends all the time 
he can at Lake Tema- 
gami, where he oper¬ 
ated Camp White Bear 
until the fall of 
1976, and where he 
still has business 
interests. 


Immediate 
Past President 


Ron first joined the Ontario Camping 
Association in 1946, and was both Con¬ 
ference and Standards Chairman before 
becoming President in 1972-74* He com¬ 
bined this presidency with that of the 
Society of Camp Directors in 1973* A 
founding executive of the Council of of 
Outdoor Educators and the first Presi¬ 
dent of Canoe Ontario he is now the Pres¬ 
ident of the Canadian Recreational 
Canoeing Association. 


Eileen Mayotte 


Regina, Sask. 

Vice-President 

During her illus¬ 
trious career in 
camping, Eileen has 
had responsibility 

for camps and campers in four provinces 
Ontario, Quebec, Saskatchewan, and B.C. 
Her camping endeavors have lead her into 
church camping, YWCA and camps for under¬ 
privileged children. In the distant past 
she was the Secretary of the Quebec Cam¬ 
ping Association. She was one of the 
founders of the Saskatchewan Camping 
Association, and for many years was its 
President. More recently Eileen was a 
Vice- President of the C.C.A. and at the 
Squamish meeting was appointed C.C.A. 
Secretary. At the Moncton meeting, the 
C.C.A. Board elected Eileen to succeed 
Paul Belanger as C.C.A. Vice-President. 

(cont. on page 9) 


8 




Jane MCCutcheon 


Wanted 

Wilderness Program Director 
Y.M.C.A. Camp Stephens 
May 1st - September 30th, 1978 

Also positions available for canoe 
trippers and counsellors. 

For more information contact: 

Mr. Jim Leggat 
Department of Camping and 
Outdoor Education 
301 Vaughan Street 
Winnipeg, Manitoba R3B 2N 7 


George Simonett 


Canoe Schools 


George has been asso¬ 
ciated with Ontario 
^ campers as a campcraft 

director, waterfront 
'■■Pjf staff, program director 

and assistant camp di¬ 
rector. For 20 years, 
he was a director of 
physical education for the Ottawa Board 
of Education, where he was President of 
the Physical Education Directors' Asso¬ 
ciation. In 1976, George took a leave 
of absence from full time teaching to 
become the full-time Executive Admin¬ 
istrator of a year-round centre for 
camping, outdoor education and outdoor 
recreation 


Details of all these school will be an¬ 
nounced as they become available. 


MEET. YOUR C.C.A. EXECUTIVE 


(cont. from page 8 ) 


New Secretary 


Jane McCutcheon began her camping career in 1967, and 
has been a counsellor, section director, office staff, 
music director, co-ordinator of leadership development, 
and, for the past two years, the full-time manager of 
a year-round outdoor centre. 


For two years, she was a member of the Ontario Camping 
Association's Board as the very capable chairman of the 
O.C.A. Counsellor Conference. At present Jane is 
studying for a masters degree in business at the Univer¬ 
sity of Western Ontario. She lives in London, Ontario. 


Huntsville, Ontario 
Treasurer 


The Canoe Instructors Schools that were 
started many years ago by Kirk Wipper 
and Claude Cousineau under the auspices 
of the C.C.A. and with the financial 
support of the Fitness and Amateur Sport 
Branch of Health and Welfare Canada, have 
recently been administered by the Canadi¬ 
an Recreational Canoeing Association with 
the same financial help. 


The original concept was to plant a "seed" 
and hope that in a few years others would 
step in to keep the schools in operation. 
This year several provinces are planning 
schools of their own, leaving only three 
to be directly sponsored by the C.R.C.A. 


Newfoundland 's plans are well underway 
with Walter Crotty directing a combination 
of skill improvment schools and Instructor 
Training. The Province of Quebec with its 
strong Canoeing organization will offer a 
program to the public. Canoe Ontario will 
sponsor an Intructors School in August. 
Alberta is making plans. 

The C.R.C.A. and British Columbia will 
jointly hold a school, Aug. 20 - 30. Write 
Claude Villeneuve, Box 630, Chase, B.C. 

VQE 1M0 for details, Manitoba and the 
C.R.C.A. will co-sponsor a school in that 
province and the C.R.C.A. will hold an ad¬ 
ditional school in Ontario in June. 


9 



COMING EVENTS 


FEBRUARY 


FETOIER 


3-5 Fin de semaine d'Animation (Region 
de Quebec 

13 QCA Exec. Meeting, Montreal YMCA 

16-18 OCA Conference, Royal York Hotel 

22 Reunion Conseil Provincial 

23 Souper-causerie - Region de Montreal 

theme "Recrutement - mode de selec¬ 
tion" 

28 QCA General Meeting, "Looking at 

Camp Thru the Eyes of a Camper" 

Panel of four campers. 

28-3 March - American Camping Associatior 
Convention, Anaheim, California 


MARCH_ 1978 MARS 


2-9 ACQ-QCA semaine de Camps 
4 BCCA Annual General Meeting 

13 QCA Exec. Meeting, Montreal YMCA 

15 Executif - Section francais - Reu¬ 
nion Conseil Provincial 

16 Souper-causerie - Region de Mont¬ 
real theme "formulaires - Mecanismes 
de controle." 

17-18 QCA Conference 


APRIL_1978 A7RIL 


OCA Professional Leadership Develop¬ 
ment Weekend, Phase III 

7-9 Seminar des directeurs de camps 

10 QCA Exec. Meeting, Montreal YMCA 

11 OCA Annual Meeting at Ont. Soc. of 
Crippled Children, Toronto. 

s 

12 Executif - Section francais - Con¬ 
seil d 1 administration. 

18 QCA Gen. Meeting, n Let ! s Get Ready 
for the Summer. 11 

✓ 

19 Souper-causerie - Region de Quebec 

20,21 CCA Board and Annual Meeting in 
Manitoba 

21-23 MCA Conference 


MAY 1978 in 


1 Date limite pour payer cotisation 

6 OCA Counsellor Conference, Centen¬ 

nial College, Toronto. 

8 QCA Exec. Meeting, Montreal YMCA 

/ - 

10 Assemblee generale annuelle - Sect, 
francais 

12-14 ACQ Stage de plein air 

17 ACQ-QCA Reunion Conseil Provincial 

19-22 NSCA Leadership Training Weekend, 
Camp Hillis, West Paradise, Anna¬ 
polis County, Nova Scotia 

26-28 ACQ Stage de plein air 

27 QCA Counsellor Conference 


QCA Standards Meeting 
12 Exec. Meeting, Montreal YMCA 




CAM? 
TIME 

is time for 

(?isH§) 

PRINTED NAME TAPES 


ALL CAMPERS' CLOTHING AND 
BELONGINGS 

should be marked for easy identification- 
losses are costly. 

CAMP LINEN AND EQUIPMENT, TOO, 
should be marked to avoid confusion 
and loss. 

NAMES OR NUMBERS CAN BE 
SUPPLIED. 

Order CASH'S NAME TAPES from 
department stores and other dealers — 
or direct from 

CASH'S 

CANADA LABELS LIMITED 

BOX 70. STATION S 
MONTREAL. QUEBEC 

PRINTED NAME PRICES 

6 doz. $3.20 9 doz. $3.65 

12 doz. $4.50 24 doz. $5.50 

No C.O.D.s. Please mail cheque or 
money order. 

Please include appropriate 
Provincial Sales Tax. 


10 





What's Cooking? 










f7u5g 

\ 


J Kicrsy 



L J 



f T 

SJy 

w 

jj 

IliDCJ, 
' FOOD ’ 


by Helen Stewart 


Included in this attractive loose-leaf 
cook book are recipes for dinner (noon), 
supper, desserts, snacks and cookies, as 
well as a section on outdoor cookery and 
one on sample menus. 


Compiled by 

HELEN E. STEWART 


SKILLET PUDDING 


1 can (l 2/3 cups) evaporated milk 
3/4 cup cocoa 


-§• cup sugar 
3/4 cup water 

Graham crackers, cookies, etc. 

Put the first four ingredients in a skil¬ 
let and bring them to a boil, stirring 
constantly. Add 10 or so coarsely bro¬ 
ken graham crackers; cover and cook over 
low heat for about \ hour, stirring oc- 
cassionally. Then spoon the pudding 
into dishes. If graham crackers are 
not handy, other kinds of cookies can 
be used, or breakfast foods such as corn 
flakes - even if they are a bit soggy! 
This is an easy tasty dessert, and it is 
a good way to use up items that might 
otherwise be thrown away. Serves 6 . 

INDIVIDUAL HOT DOG BAKE 

Wrap 2 hot dogs, several canned or 
cooked potatoes, a tomato half with 
grated cheese and onion slice in foil. 
Seal tightly in foil and place on fire 
grill for about 15 minutes turning once 


SEVEN SEAS CASSEROLE 

Combine 1 - 10 Oz. can condensed cream of 
mushroom soup or condensed cream of celery 
soup, { to | cup finely chopped onion, 

1 l /3 cups water, 1 tsp lemon juice, 4 - tsp. 
salt and dash of pepper in a saucepan. 

Bring to a boil over medium heat, stirring 
occasionally. Pour about half the soup 
mixture into a greased 1 -J- quart casserole. 
Then in layers add 1 l/3 cups Minute Rice 
(right from the box), 1 pkg. (12 oz.) fro¬ 
zen green peas, thawed, and 1-7 3/4 oz. 
can of salmon, drained and flaked. Add re¬ 
maining soup. Sprinkle with -§• cup grated . 
Cheddar cheese and paprika. Cover and bake 
in moderate (375) 20 minutes. Cut through 
mixture with knife or fork after 1 minutes 
of baking to help distribute soup mixture. 
Serves 4» 


To order your copy of Cookery for Kids , 
Kamp. n 1 Kicks , please send a cheque or 
money order for $ 3 . 50 , made payable to the 
Canadian Camping Association. Send to: 

C.C.A. Publications Service 
102 Eglinton Ave., E. # 203 
Toronto, Ontario M4P 1E1 

Please send me _ copies of Cookery 

for Kids. Kamp n r Kicks. I enclose $ 


Address 




REPRINTED FROM 

BOYS AND GIRLS CLUBS OF CANADA 
October 197 7 Newsletter 


PROGRAM MANUAL, WATCH FOR IT! 


"OUR PROGRAM MANUEL recently received 
the approval of Recreation Canada and the 
Secretary of State." 

"In conjunction with the Program Manual, 
four staff members have agreed to a con¬ 
tractual arrangement to write the section 
on Natural Environment Activities. Doug 
Soo from Vancouver, B.C. will develop the 
chapter on resident camping; Peter Clag- 
horn and Ralph Hembruff, of Calgary, wi]l 
co-author the section on wilderness cam¬ 
ping and Brian Donnelly of Oshawa will 
document the section on low-cost non-fa¬ 
cility camping. The material will be in 
your hands before next Slimmer's camp sea¬ 
son. " 


NATIONAL OFFICE 
620 Wilson Ave. West 
3rd Floor 

Downsvicw, Ontario M3K1Z3 
Tel. (416) 635-6402 


Paraitra prochainement / 

NOTRE MANUEL D'ACTIVITES 

/ 

"Notre MANUEL D'ACTIVITES a recemment 
repu 1'approbation de Recreation Canada 
et du Secretariat d'Etat." 

En vue de la preparation de ce manuel, 
quatre membres ont accepte de rediger a 
forfait las section sur activit.es de 
plein air. Doug Soo, de Vancouver, re- 
digera le chapitre traitant du camping 
en residence, Peter Claghorn et Ralph 
Hembruff, de Calgary, verront a la pre¬ 
paration du chapitre sur le camping en 
nature, tandis que Brian Donnelly, 
d'Oshawa, ecrira le chapitre sur le 
camping en nature sans amenagements a 
peu de frais." 


The Manual in its first form will be available in late January or early February, 
however the sections on camping will not be included until later in the spring. The 
Boys and Girls Clubs of Canada have said that they will be pleased to share this 
Manual with others across Canada. Those who are interested should write for further 
information. There will be a charge to outside groups. 


6TT£“800 NSSI 


131 dMN OIUVJ.NO '01N0U0X 
1SV3 30N3AV N01NI103 ZOl 'ZOZ 3-LinS 

Dpouoj np srfiun.) sap uoijoiaossn 
uoponosso SukIuwj umpDUDO 

























