
Canadian 


comping 



OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 
L’ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU CANADA — PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 

SUITE 2. 1806 AVENUE ROAD • TORONTO. ONTARIO M5M 3Z1 
TELEPHONE (416) 781-4717 


1 


Vol. 33 No. 3 
May 1981 










Dispose of camp food 
service problems with 

royal Ckinet 

disposable plates and bowls 

Strong, attractive Royal CHINET food service products help you ... 

• DISPOSE OF DISHWASHING COSTS 

Cut the expense of installing, maintaining and manning equipment 
that is used only a few months of the year. 

• DISPOSE OF BREAKAGE 

Save yourself the trouble and expense of buying matching replace¬ 
ments for pieces that crack, chip and shatter. 

• DISPOSE OF FOOD WASTE 

You get exact portion control with Royal CHINET’s wide range of 
sizes in regular and compartmented designs. 

• DISPOSE OF GERM COLLECTORS 

Royal CHINET products are sterilized when manufactured and 
packaged. And there’s never a germ-collecting chip, crack or 
poorly washed dish. 

• DISPOSE OF IRRITATING NOISE 

Disposable service is silent service. Meals are relaxed without the 
clatter and crash of china or metal. 

ENVIRONMENTAL ADVANTAGES, TOO 

All good campers want to protect the environment. Royal CHINET prod¬ 
ucts are manufactured from a renewable resource. What’s more, they're 
biodegradable ... molded of natural wood fibres that burn readily with 
little smoke. Even if discarded out-of-doors, Royal CHINET quickly de¬ 
composes in the earth. 

Get the full particulars now. Mail this coupon today. 


CANADIAN KEYES FIBRE COMPANY LTD. 
HANTSPORT, NOVA SCOTIA 

Please provide me with details of the variety and costs of Royal 
CHINET food service products. 



COMPANY or CAMP 
ADDRESS 








PRESIDENT'S REPORT 


Spring has sprung - the grass is greening - the elections are over - camp is just 
around the corner and everyone is getting things in shape. By now you will have 
heard that Jocelyn Palm of Ontario has been elected President of C.C.A. for the 
next two years. Jane McCutcheon succeeds Derek Walsh as Vice-President of the 
Central Region, while Gary Luthy has been elected by the provinces that comprise 
the Western Region. George Matthews continues as Atlantic Regional V.P. 

A good solid group to form the nuclus of the C.C.A. Board to carry on for the 
coming two years. I am sure that all Provinces will continue to actively sup¬ 
port and work closely with these folk in the important work of C.C.A. In my ca¬ 
pacity as Immediate Past President of the Association a new set of responsibili¬ 
ties become mine and I will do my best to assist Jocelyn and her Board wherever 
and whenever needed. My congratulations to all the successful candidates and my 
thanks to all the others who contested the election. It is a good sign of a 
healthy organization when elections are held for various offices. Now comes the 
job of organizing the various committees and task forces to carry out the various 
jobs that C.C.A. has undertaken. We need good people from all over the country 
and if any of you have a desire to assist C.C.A. in some field or just want to 
help - please let us know. We can use YOU! Also, if you are asked to work on 
a committee or project - please be affirmative. You will benefit from the ex¬ 
perience and we are sure that C.C.A. will gain from your work and interest^ The 
strength of C.C.A. is in the provinces and their strength is in each individual. 
C.C.A. has made tremendous strides forward in the past ten years - through hard 
work we can accomplish an equal amount or more - but it must be done by everyone 
contributing to the work. 

On April 7, the Executive jxmrneyed to Ottawa to meet with the Fitness and Amateur 
Sport Directorate concerning a review of our work and the funds we receive from 
the Federal Government. We were well received, each one of us made a contribu¬ 
tion to the presentation, but the ’piece de resistance 1 was given by Jay Haddad 
and his ’beautiful, coloured slide 1 presentation complete with music and commen¬ 
tary. The F.A.S. group were duly impressed. In the discussion that followed, 
it was interesting to note that Ottawa is concerned with the continuing accidents 
resulting from poorly-equipped and ill-trained (or untrained) persons who go on 
camping trips, canoe trips, mountain climbing and wilderness travel. They be¬ 
lieve there is a real need here for education and we agree - but the problem is 
to reach these people. It is much to difficult and expensive to set up training 
programs for everyone that might want to go on such a trip - and then one must 
convince the people to take the course. Literature and training courses are in¬ 
deed good avenues for training and/or educating these people and our C.C.A. f, HOW 
TO" series of monographs is a step in this direction. We need people to research 
and write for this series. If you have a particular expertise or skill or per¬ 
haps you know of someone capable of doing an article; -please encourage them to 
do so. The C.C.A. office can give you a list of the areas i n which we want pub¬ 
lications - contact them for information. 

My personal thanks to all who have contributed to the success of C.C.A. during 
my term as President. A good deal has been accomplished and it is the interest 
and work of many individuals that has made it all possible. I have made many 
new acquaintances and friends across Canada in the last two years and I am richer 
for this. It has ben a lot of work and time, but well worth the effort - I am 
fortunate to have had the experience._ 


3 





SPECIAL EFFECTS FOR SPECIAL DAYS 


by Ann Stevenson 

Camp Wannakumbac 
Clear Lake, Manitoba 


We use black and white photography 
to add special effects to our spe¬ 
cial day programs. Here are some 
examples, created by campers and 
staff, which focus on fun. 

International Day 

Groups of campers, representing 
different countries, set up cul¬ 
tural pavaillions as part of an in¬ 
ternational exposition. Visitors 
were invited to sample ethnic food 
and to participate in games and 
other activities characteristic 
of each country. 

The "Scots" offered visitors 
modest samples of their national 
beverage, a chance at "haggis 
hurling" and a souvenir photo¬ 
graph taken with that most infamous of Scots - the Loch Ness Monster. 

Roaring Twenties Day 

After re-creating a thriving business community from the 1920 f s, campers partici¬ 
pated in reliving those carefree days as flappers, gangsters and dandies. 

The Old-Time Photo Shoppe was a popular attraction. Here patrons were ceremoniously 
photographed in an open-air studio equipped with hooded camera, birdie and "explo¬ 
ding" flash powder. The very next day they received brownish-toned miniatures remi¬ 
niscent of their special visit in time. 

International Spy Day 

The untimely kidnapping of the cook’s helper set the stage for playing an elaborate 
detective game, aimed at deducing the unknown assailant and his where abouts with 
the aid of "spy books". These guides to spydom contained "mug Shots" and descrip¬ 
tions of all known secret agents in the area, many of whom were employed in various 
capacities by a certain camp. 

The work preparing the books was immediately rewarded by the gales of laughter from 
campers as they examined the vast criminal element at large in their midst. 

Klondike Day 

To record the events of a booming gold-rush town, one group of campers assumed the 
task of publishing a newspaper. Reporters were "on the scene to cover^the election 
of mayor, the grand opening of a new saloon and the hold-up of the town’s only bank. 
In addition,staff writers gathered material from local businesses and wrote society 
columns and editorials. 








Apart from the newspaper, these activi¬ 
ties required only a modest amount of 
time, equipment and knwoledge. If you 
can follow directions, you can develop 
film. If you know the difference be¬ 
tween negatives and positives, you can 
print pictures. 

To produce the individual souvenir pho¬ 
tographs, "contact prints" are used. By 
placing strips of negatives on top of 
a piece of photographic paper, exposing 
them briefly to light (a lamp will do) 
and developing the paper in the proper 
chemical solutions, you can produce the 
pictures from an entire roll of film on 
one sheet of paper. Since the photo¬ 
graphs are the exact size of the nega¬ 
tive, films providing larger negatives 
are preferred. A roll of 120 film will 
print 16 pictures 1 % inch square. 

If you photograph two or more campers 
at once, you need only make a second and 
third contact sheet from the same nega¬ 
tives. This reduces the amount of film 
you will have to develop. For special 
effects, try toning the sheets with dif¬ 
ferent photographic dyes. Afterwards, 
cut out the individual photographs, place 
them on colourful paper backgrounds, and 
await some positive reactions. 


Camp Wannakumbac is a resident childrens’ 
camp, sponsored by the Manitoba Farm Bureau 


If you or your camp has an interesting 
Program Idea, you would like to share 
with the rest of the country send it to 
Mr. Brian Blackstock, Editor - Canadian 
Camping - 1806 Avenue Rd. Toronto, M5M 3Z1 


Is fitness 
Important? 
Ask any body. 


patmctpacrion 




r 

x?, ] 

| 


L 

■P 


5 








THE C.V. MOSBY COMPANY LTD., 120 melford drive, Scarborough, Ontario mib 2x5 416-298-1588 

TELEX 065-262^ 


IS PLEASED TO ANNOUNCE THE PUBLICATION OF 

CAMPS: THEIR PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT 


BY 

ROBERT E. WILKINSON, Ph.D. 

PROFESSOR, DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION 

McGILL UNIVERSITY, MONTREAL, CANADA 

AND 

MEMBER OF CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 
THROUGH THE ASSOCIATION des CAMPS du QUEBEC 


BRIEF DESCRIPTION: This basic text details both theory and practice of the administrative 

aspects of camping. Throughout the text, the author emphasizes the need 
for careful, systematic planning in all phases of camp operation. 

KEY FEATURES: • Discusses the current status of organized camping, focussing on 

the need for sound administrative principles • Explores the role of human 
and physical resources in development of the camp structure and program**! 
• Stresses the health and safety of both campers and staff • Explains legal 
responsibility and the need for strong preventive measures and adequate 
protection • Examines camp food services, detailing sanitation and the 
potential hazards of food-borne illnesses • Lists administrative guidelines 
at the end of each chapter • Includes national code of ethics for Canadian 
Camping Association 


TO ORDER YOUR 
PERSONAL COPY, 

JUST COMPLETE, 

CLIP AND MAIL 

THIS PUBLICATION 
ALSO AVAILABLE 
THROUGH— 

C.C.A. PUBLICATION 

SERVICE 

SUITE 2 

1806 AVENUE ROAD 
TORONTO, ONTARIO 
M5M 3Z1 

TELEPHONE: 416-781-4717 


I’m interested in purchasing a copy of Wilkinson: Camps 

Book Code 5550-1 

Price $19.95 

NAME 

ADDRESS 

PROVINCE 

POSTAL CODE 

MASTER CARD 

EXPIRY 

DATE 

CHARGEX 

EXPIRY 

DATE 

CHEQUE ENCLOSED 



MAKE CHEQUE OR MONEY ORDER PAYABLE TO 


C.V. MOSBY COMPANY LTD. 




6 



BOOK REVIEW 


CAMPS, THEIR PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT 

by Robert E. Wilkinson, PH.D. 

Professor, Department of Physical Education 
McGill University, Montreal 

Reviewed by Eanswythe Flynn 

For many years Canadian directors and staff in the field of children f s 
camping have hoped for a textbook on the planning, upkeep, business and gen¬ 
eral management of their chosen profession. At last it has come to us in 
CAMPS, THEIR PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT just released by C.V. Mosby Company, Pub¬ 
lishers, Toronto. 

Through author. Professor Robert E. Wilkinson, of McGill’s Department 
of Physical Education and Camp Nominingue, one percieves a systematically 
planned picture of the entire enterprise, from its broadest definition, 
through functions of administration, personnel management and camp curriculum, 
to health, food services and public relations. 

Not since Dimock and Hendry’s CAMPING AND CHARACTER (1929) has a Cana¬ 
dian textbook of this size and depth been so all embracing. Not only does 
Professor Wilkinson dwell on the principles... organization, processes devel¬ 
opment and procedures, but he follows through with detail.... scores of charts 
sketches, plans and specimens of every kind of business form any camp records 
would require. 

Not only that, throughout the text, hints on economizing, evaluating, 
controlling foodborne illness hazards, programming, business-letter writing 
and so many wise shortcuts to a successful operation, carry weight because 
they have some straight from actual experience. It is interesting to note, 
too, that the fifty-two sketches and charts are the work of Mrs. Wilkinson, 
to whom the author pays high and affectionate tribute. 

A book such as this on the shelf of any camp - small, medium or large... 
independent. Church subsidized, sports-oriented, specialized, outpost etc.... 
can become a refresher course at any time of the year and required reading as 
a means of study through camping’s Off Season. 

Mrs. Flynn, is the editor and publisher of Camping Clues , editor of the 
Ontario Camping Association newsletter OCAsional News and directed Camp 
Brigadoon for many years. 

Cliff. Labbett, C.C.A. President and Co-Director of Camp Oconto says about 
Dr. Wilkinson’s book 

’’Recommended reading for all Camp Directors - new and old... contains a wealth 
of information.... a tremendous amount of research has gone into this book and 
the bibliography is excellent. The title is very apt.... all aspects of camp 
operation are covered as they relate to the smallest new camp or to the very 
large organizational or private camp.” 

Wilkinson, Robert E., Camps, Their Planning and Management, 291 pp. hardcover, 
C.V. Mosby Company, Toronto, 1981. $19.95 




Thought for Food 

- menu planning ideas 

Here are seme meal suggestions, old and new which may help add to the interest 
and variety in your menus this sunnier. 

BREAKFAST 


FRUIT 

canteloupe slices 

(slice one in 8 pieces) 
grapefruit sections 
watermelon 

(very popular and rea¬ 
sonably priced) 
half bananas and orange 
sections 
apple sauce 
prunes 

JUICE 

five fruit frozen 
pineapple/grapefruit 
apple 

instant orange 
frozen varieties 
cranberry/apple 


CEREAL 

Hot - Red River 
oatmeal 
wheatlets 
Cream of Wheat 

Cold - corn flakes 

shredded wheat 
rice crisps 
Captain Crunch 
(check prices and 

weights for value- 
the bigger the box 
the lower the unit 
price) 


MAIN COURSE 

eggs: scrambled, boiled 
fried, poached 
ham (and eggs) 
bacon (and eggs) 
pancakes - regular 

buckwheat 

(add some blueberries 
fresh or frozen for a 
real treat) 

* be sure to allow a 
little longer for 
cooking if berries are 
added. 

french toast 
sausages 

bran muffins (go very well 
with scrambled eggs) 
date and nut loaf 
cinnamon buns 
Danish pastry 


LUNCH (or light suppers) 


MEAT DISHES 

fried bolongna and eggs 
braised meat stew 
cold slices of corned 
beef/potato salad 
cold meat plate (for ma- 
ing sandwiches at the 
table) 

corned beef hash 
corned beef and cabbage 
sausage meat patties 
chili con carne 
sausage con carne 
turkey (creole) and rice 
chicken/turkey/beef pies 
hot beef/chicken sandwiches 
hot dogs with cheese strips 
hamburgers 


FISH DISHES 


tuna salad 
salmon salad 
tuna/mackeral salad 
(mackeral is much 
less than tuna or 
salmon, but should 
be mixed as flavour 
is strong 

salmon & scalloped po¬ 
tatoes 

cod fish cakes 
tuna/salamon casserole 
salmon/ almond " 
tuna/noodle/mushroom " 


OTHER DISHES 

macaroni and cheese 
egg salad for sandwiches 
grilled cheese and onion 
tomato/cheese beef maca¬ 
roni 

western sandwiches 
pancakes 
french toast 
Pizza 

pork and beans 


soup makes most lunches 
more complete and can be 
inexpensively prepared by 
using one of the many com¬ 
mercial soup bases and left¬ 
over vegetables and meats. 


8 



DINNER 


CHICKEN 

baked chicken legs 
roast 

southernfried 
barbequed 
chicken a la king 
chicken chow mein 
chicken chop suey 
chicken pot pie 
baked with coating mix 

MINCED MEAT 

hamburger pie/tart 
meat loaf 
spaghetti and meat 
balls/sauce 
hamburger on a bun 
hamburger patties 
sweet and sour meat 
balls 

Sloppy Joes 
cheeseburger loaf 


MAIN COURSES 
TURKEY 

roast 
a la king 
pot pie 

sweet and sour pie 
VEAL 

breaded veal chops 
breaded veal cutlets 

HAM/PORK 

roast 

sliced (baked or fried) 
pork chops 
pork roast 

ham and mushroom soup 
casserole 


BEEF 

roast (pot, blade, chuck) 

beef chop suey 

steak 

Salisbury steak 
Yorkshire steak 
Swiss steak 
beef steaketts 
beef chow mein 
stew 

beef and corn casserole 
sorrento pie 

macaroni and sausage jumbo 
country pie 


VEGETABLES - fresh, frozen, canned, 
cooked or raw 

SALADS 

DESSERTS 


BAKED PIES 


brownies with marshmallow 
topping 

Johnny cakes and syrup 
marble cake and ice cream 
upsidedown - pineapple 
apple 
cherry 

gingerbread and lemon sauce 
strawberry shortcake or tea 
bisk 

chocolate cake 
date squares 
apple cake 

spice cake/orange icing 

cheesecake/cherry topping 

apple strudel 

date crumbles 

doughnuts 

Chinese chews 

Rice Crispie squares 

apple brown betty 

blueberry cobbler 

plum 

Rhubarb / strawberry 11 
Dutch chocolate roll 


rhubarb/apple 
graham cracker crust 
lemon pudding filling 
(don’t cook) 
lemon 
chocolate 
cherry 
blueberry 
peach/strawberry 
pumpkin 
pecan 
rhubarb 
blueberry 
Dutch apple 
deep apple 
apple raspberry 
TARTS 

butter 

lemon 

strawberry 

blueberry 

custard 

butterscotch (pudding) 
chocolate (pudding) 


PUDDINGS 

Butterscotch * 

Cocoanut Cream 

caramel/rice 

rice and lemon sauce 

vanilla and orange sections 

hot fudge 

apple batter 

gingerbread and meringue 

caramel 

lemon snow 

Chocolate and Kraft Mini¬ 
marshmallows 

ICE CREAM 

sundaes 
sherbert 
Popsicles 
ice cream crunch 
11 11 bricks cut at table 

mello-rolls 
Dixie cups 
nutty cones 

(cont. on page 12 ) 


9 




The COUNSELLOR'S Page 

GREAT EXPECTATIONS 

Often counsellors are not aware of the great expectations parents have for their 
children. The obvious ones such as having fun in a safe, friendly environment 
are clear to almost every counsellor. Here is a partial list of a few more of the 
very important things expected from their child’s counsellor. 

They want a counsellor who.... 

- constantly watches out to see the child is healthy and CLEAN including TEETH. 

- check to see that toilet habits are regular 

- is aware and will not let sunstroke strike 

- helps to assure that the children will eat properly 

- is aware of the whereabouts of their child at all times 

- makes their child feel comfortable in the camp environment 

- sees to it that P.F.D’s (life jackets) are properly used 

- prepares children for emergencies such as fire, getting lost and canoe tipping 

- has experience and abiltity in administering FIRST AID 

- is mature and will act responsibly in emergency situations 

- help the campers keep their clothes and other property in good order and clean 

- supports established values such as religious beliefs 

- is fun but also can command respect 

- is a good listener 11 and can be a sounding board for their child’ values, 
ideals, dreams and perceptions of the world 

- has a sense of humour ALL summer 

- makes every effort to be fair with each camper and just in reprimands 

- does not expend too much time with friends on staff and ignore the children 

in consequence. 

- senses when a camper is homesick or lonely and will quietly move to relieve 
this feeling 

- will help their children to be more aware of themselves 

- will help campers to become more skilled and self-confident 

- helps to develop in each camper a sense of responsiblity and independence 

- will give their child a just amount of affection, respect and understanding 

- will pass along the very important quality of learning to do things for others 

Visiting Day - There are a variety of formats for visiting day. Some camps have 

it any time and some camps do not allow the parents to visit the camps at all. Othei 

camps, (Probably the majority) will have one day or period put aside for visiting, 
while other camps will allow parents to drop in at any time during the weekend. 




r*s 


Generally, the argument against visitors is that it could be a disruption to the 
program and it is often very difficult for the counsellor; it is also often very 
difficult for those children whose parents do not attend. Some people feel that 
it is artificial. On the other hand, it is a very rewarding experience for a 
parent to meet their child’s counsellor (probably the most significent person in 
the child's life at camp). If the camp is well run they should be proud of it - 
so much so that the parents return home thinking "I am happy that my child is in 
that camp n . If parents are made to feel a part of the camp, their enthusiasm and 
involvement will make them more aware of the benefits of a positive camping ex¬ 
perience. 

Counsellors should be given some training before visiting times to assist them in 
meeting and speaking with parents and assessing their child's progress. If the 
counsellor has a problem camper and is feeling uncomfortable about presenting the 
situation to the parent, the Director should certainly be willing to take over. 


Parents want to feel that they are leaving their children in good hands, 
know you care and are capable. 


Let them 


John Latimer is the Director of Kilcoo and a Past President of C.C.A. and O.C.A.. 
He is the Chairman of the C.C.A. National and International Conferences Committee. 




Position Wanted 


ANY SENIOR STAFF POSITION 

(Section Head, Program Director, 
Camp Director or Assistant) for 
this summer) 

Experienced in all facets of camp 
leadership. Specialize in novelty 
program ideas and counsellor trai¬ 
ning. 

Contact Bud Jacobi 

8 Patricia Drive 
St. Catharines, Ont. 

L2M 4P3 
(416) 934-7223 


Memo 


Remember, camps are only accredited 
by Provincial Associations NOT by 
the C.C.A. 

Therefore, camps are a MEMBER CAMP 
of the Canadian Camping Association. 

It has come to our attention that 
some camps are still using the wording 
"accredited by C.C.A." on their litera¬ 
ture. This is incorrect and should be 
changed. 

The C.C.A. is happy to supply copies 
of the logo with the correct imprint. 
Please request them from the C.C.A. 
Office. 1806 Avenue Rd. Toronto M5M3Z1 


HAVE YOU MOVED ? 

Membership in _ 

Student 


Individual 


Effective Date: Day_Month_Year_ 

provincial association 

_ Camp_ 


New Address(Please Print) 


Please affix old address 
label 


Mail to: C.C.A. 1806 Avenue Rd. 

Toronto. Ont. M5M 3Z1 


name 


address 


city 


prov. 


code 


11 




f 



SUPPORT AMATEUR 
SPORT 


Canadian ampin? ammOo,, , LE spow 

association dcs camps da Canada am a FEUR 


SUITE 2. 1806 AVENUE ROAD 


TORONTO. ONTARIO M5M 3Z1 



ISSN 008-3119 


1822 

MISS MARION BABCOCK 
215 * 25 LORNE AVE. 
NEWMARKET ON 
L3Y 5N0 


-menu planning ideas 

DESSERTS (cont. from page 9 ) 

CANNED FRUIT GELATIN FRESH FRUIT 


pears 

peaches 

plums 

mandarin oranges 
apricots 
cherries 
applesauce 
apple halves 


orange 

lime 

grape 

lemon 

cherry 

raspberry 

peach, etc. 


watermelon 

canteloupe 

bananas 

plums 

cherries 

grapes 

oranges 

pears 


Need some new ideas for Cookouts???? The C.C.A. is distributing a Cookout 
Manual which has been produced by Sue Whitney, Day Camp Director, Borough of 
Etobicoke, Parks and Recreation Services, 24 pages and more than 35 receipes. 

The purpose of the manual is to provide new and exciting cooking ideas for both 
small group cookouts and mass section cookouts. The recipes have been divided 
into six major groups according to Canada’s Food Guide. It begins... 

RECIPE FOR A COOKOUT ,f l enthusiastic counsellor, 6-12 small and medium sized 
campers, 1 fire pit, 100 - 150 pieces of various sizes of dry wood, 1 package 
matches, 1 well planned menu, 1 large pot, 1 pinch of patience, 1 dab of under¬ 
standing, 14 cups of enthusiasm. 11 

The price is $3.00. Order from the C.C.A. Publications Service,1806 Avenue Rd. 












