OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

CANADIAN CAMPING 


December 1950 

TORONTO, CANADA 













'7T# / - FOR YOUR GOODWILL & 

( JrLCUtK3 GOOD BUSINESS 


GIBBONS QUICKSET DESSERTS 

Factory: 20 RIPLEY AVE. (PL. 5085) TORONTO, CAN. 


2 


Canadian Camping 





From EATON'S 


For years we’ve been outfitting campers with almost everything they need to 
help make their camping holiday as enjoyable as possible. The following are a few 
of the camping necessities available at EATON’S Sporting Goods Dept.: Ground 
Sheets, Thermos Jugs, Iceboxes, Dunnage Bags, Blanket pins, Sun Helmets, Plates, 
Pots, Gups, Fishing Tackle, Mosquito Bars, Gasoline Stoves and Lanterns, Folding 
Cots, Chairs, Rucksacks, Packsacks, Sleeping Bags. Contact Sporting Goods 
Department. 


EATON'S 


Toronto, Canada, December, 1950 


3 




























A C K R O Y D 
DINGHIES 

are built exclusively 
by the builders of 

TAYLOR 

CRAFT 

Canada's Leading 
CRUISERS 
and 

SAILBOATS 


TAYLOR & SONS LIMITED 

>n the Western Channel - TORONTO 


Check REDBOQK’S Three R’s . . . 

Are you seeking an audience for YOUR CAMP promotion that has proven 
consistently valuable over the years? Yes? Redbook is your answer because: 

READERSHIP — Redbook's estimated net paid circulation for the last 
six months of 1950 will be 2,000,000. 

REPUTATION — Redbook's reputation in presenting excellent material, 
integrity of the articles, and the excellence of fiction, are unquestionable. 
The continuing gain in circulation year after year is proof of this. 
RESULTS — That Redbook should be a major consideration on every 
camp schedule is proven by the camps that have continuously 
advertised year after year because of tangible results and the intangibles 
which are equally important. The Bureau inquiries increased more than 
70 per cent, in 1950 over 1949 and we look forward to an equally 
successful year in 1951. 

For further information write to: 

ETHEL F. BEBB, Director 

Educational Advertising 

REDBOOK MAGAZIN E 

230 Park Avenue New York, N.Y. 


4 


Canadian Camping 




CANADIAN CAMPING 


Vol. II 


DECEMBER, 1950 


No. 4 


CONTENTS 


A Christmas Greeting . A. L. Cochrane 

The Art of Story-Telling . Mary S. Edgar 

The Camp Director’s Dividends . Bruno Morawetz 

Camp Sanitary Facilities. R. K. Clever don 

Camps that are Different. 

International Canoe Trips . Anne I. Vail 

Book Reviews .. 

Trading Post .;. 

In Lighter Vein . 

Our Friends—the Advertisers. 


7 

9 

11 

13 

17 

19 

23 

24 
26 
26 


Cover Photo from Salvation Army 


CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

Office—Room 221—771 Burnside Ave., Montreal 


Honorary President 

A. L. Cochrane, Toronto 

Past Presidents 

Taylor Statten, Toronto 
Dais L. Gass, Montreal 

President 

Anne I. Vail 

2035 Coursol St., Montreal 

Vice Presidents 

Irwin Haladner, Toronto. 

W. E. (Ted) Yard, Toronto. 


Secretary 

Agnes Mutchler, 

771 Burnside Ave., Montreal. 

Treasurer 

E. O. Freedman, 

10 Ontario St. W., Montreal. 

Editor 

Mary S. Edgar, 

64 St. Clair Ave. W., Toronto. 

Publishing Agent 
Fred Haiblen, 

170 Bloor St. W., Toronto. 


“CANADIAN CAMPING” IS PUBLISHED FOUR TIMES A YEAR BY THE CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
CO. FOR THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION AT 170 BLOOR ST. WEST. TORONTO ONTARIO SUbJ 
SCRIPTION PRICES: MEMBERSHIP IN THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION INCLUDES CANADIAN 
CAMPING: TO NON-MEMBERS, 25 CENTS PER COPY. AUTHORIZED AS SECOND CLASS MAIL POST 

OFFICE DEPARTMENT, OTTAWA. ONT. ’ ' 


Toronto, Canada, December, 1950 


5 












HAVE THE BEST 


CAMPERS’ INSURANCE 


MEDICAL REIMBURSEMENT 
ACCIDENTAL DEATH 
TUITION REFUND 
EPIDEMIC 
POLIO 


We wrofe the first of this coverage 
ever written in 1937. During the 
ensuing years, hundreds of thousands 
of camping children have been insured 
by us in the States, Canada, Hawaii 
and Europe. 

BEST IN COVERAGE - BEST IN SERVICE 


THE SIGN OF A 
GOOD SERVICE T 



VERMONT ACCIDENT INSURANCE CO. 

RUTLAND, VERMONT, U.S.A. 


Canadian Camping 





A (fLljratimis (Sreuting 

A. L. Cochrane 

As I write, early snowflakes arc falling and mingling with the 
few last leaves as they flutter to the ground. Winter is here! Yet, 
“If Winter comes can Spring be far behind?” A happy remembrance 
of the past summer is recalled by a Prayer of Thanksgiving, 
delivered at the close of a northern camp, of which this excerpt 
is given: 

“Our God and Father, we meet in Thy worship for the last 
time that we shall all he together, and in Thy presence we how in 
thankfulness, in praise and in humble petition. We thank Thee for 
the guidance that has blessed this camp through another season, 
keeping our members safe, secure and happy in the enjoyment of 
Thy unspoiled creation. We thank Thee for the development of 
body and mind in good times shared. We thank Thee for the beauty 
of the woods and waters; for the care-free, outdoor life; for the new 
occupations and interests and for all the lessons learned through 
living together ” 

While recalling many happy memories of the past summers, it 
is to the future that we turn our vision. Now is the time to prepare 
for “next year.” 

The “Old Guard” of the organized camping movement will 
cordially welcome new or younger members willing to take an 
active part in the promotion of this most worthy cause. What ideas 
have you, dear fellow member, or what contribution can you make 
toward the common good? Do not forget that the editor of this, 
your magazine, is eager to hear from you and to receive suggestions, 
queries or even “beefs” that may lead to a constructive interchange 
of ideas. 

In concusion and at this Festive Season, “A Happy Christmas 
and Prosperous New Year to all.” 



Mr. A. L. Cochrane is Honorary President of the Canadian Camping 
Association. He began trip-camping with boys in 1900, and since then, he 
has directed Camp Temagami for fifty seasons. 


Toronto, Canada, December, 1950 


7 



“God bless the little things this Christmas tide , 

All the little world things that live outside; 

Little cold robins and rabbits in the snow; 

Give them good faring and a warm place to go. 
All the little young things, for His sake who died , 
Who was a little thing; too , at Christmas tide” 




8 


Canadian Camping 







THE ART 


of Story Telling 

Mary S. Edgar, 

Director , Glen Bernard Camp. 


Last summer a group of counselors- 
in-training were gathered by the fireside 
in my cabin, for a talk on “The Art of 
Story Telling”. It was the end of a busy 
camp day; the rain was beating against 
the windows; the fire burned brightly 
and the setting was perfect for stories. 
But I was scheduled for a lecture on 
story telling! Maybe it was a lucky 
break for the “Subs” that my notes had 
somehow been misplaced. “Just tell us 
stories instead!”, they begged, “and 
some other time give us the notes.” So 
that is what happened that rainy night. 
In the flicker of the firelight, I told 
story after story to a group of eighteen- 
year-olds, and no small child ever gave 
more rapt attention to a bedtime story 
than did those almost-grown-up camp¬ 
ers. 

They had probably heard most of the 
stories before, for the tales have been 
told and retold to each succeeding 
group of campers for many summers, 
but there was the same eager response 
—the thrill of expectancy—the shining 
eyes and the clamor for “just one more”, 
which is an inspiration and unfailing 
satisfaction to any story teller. It was 
just an illustration of the accepted fact 
that we never become too grown-up to 
enjoy stories. Combined with woodfire 
and candlelight stories or poetry can 
grip the interest and stir the emotions 
of any group, young or old. 


It is because of the potential value of 
story telling in camp that we should 
place more and more emphasis on it in 
our evening programs. We should plan 
more opportunities for training and ar¬ 
range to give counselors more chances 
to tell stories. Just as we learn to do 
by doing, so, too, we learn to tell stories 
by telling them. Camp directors can 
give a great deal of encouragement to 
would-be story tellers by providing them 
with suitable stories to tell; by giving 
them suggestions about how to prepare 
and tell a story, and by arranging a 
definite time and place for them to 
meet their audience—perhaps at first a 
cabin group or a camping trip group, 
then a larger audience such as a section, 
and later possibly the entire camp group 
at a campfire or chapel service. 

Eventually the missing notes on “The 
Art of Story Telling” were located. It 
is with the hope that they might be of 
interest to a wider group, that they are 
condensed in this article. 

The art of story telling is the oldest 
art in the world. Long before there 
were books or scrolls written, there were 
stories told. In fact, that was the only 
way the oldest tales of every race were 
passed on and preserved, though a 
tremendous wealth of material has been 
lost. In the early days of every primi¬ 
tive people and, in fact, through long 
centuries, the story teller was a very 


Toronto , Canada , December , 1950 


9 



ifnportant person. What books, news¬ 
papers, radio, theatres and television 
mean to our age, the art of the story 
teller meant to an earlier age. He 
passed down the myths, the legends, 
the fables and the great stories of his 
country’s heroes and history. 

One of the great masters of the art 
of story telling was Jesus. His stories 
made a lasting impression on those who 
heard them. Some of the stories or 
parables were learned from His own 
keen observation, like the Sower, some 
perhaps, were experiences remembered 
from childhood, like the story of the 
Lost Coin. However, many, probably, 
were stories to which He, too, had once 
eagerly listened, like the Prodigal Son 
and the Talents. These stories were re¬ 
membered and retold for many long 
years before they were written down 
and preserved for us. 

In a later age of chivalry and adven¬ 
ture, the troubadour sang his ballads 
and the story teller told his tales in all 
the courts of Europe and Asia, and his 
was the seat of honor by the fire—some¬ 
times in great castle halls and some¬ 
times by the gypsyfire under the stars. 

Compared to the past, story telling 
in the present day is almost a lost art. 
There are story hours occasionally on 
the radio and in children’s libraries, but 
the story teller is, for the most part, a 
professional in an uncrowded profes¬ 
sion. We must not, however, overlook 
the fact that a vast company of fathers 
and mothers still tuck their children 
into bed and cheerfully respond to the 
urgent demand for a story. Happy is 
the child who has memories of bed-time 
stories! 

If there is any place, however, where 
the art of story telling should be 
properly revived, it is in the summer 
camp, where every year increasing num¬ 
bers of boys and girls gather around the 
campfire, just as the primitive folk and 
the Indians and Pioneers did in the 
long ago. Away from the many com¬ 


petitive, commercial attractions of the 
city, the story teller regains his prestige 
and has amazing opportunities to trans¬ 
port a responsive audience to new 
worlds of adventure and romance. 

Anyone can master the art of story 
telling, provided they are keen enough 
about it. The most important way to 
make a story interesting is to be really 
interested in it yourself. Therefore, 
choose a story you like . Memorize it, 
or at least familiarize yourself with the 
sequence of events. In imagination, see 
things happen in technicolor as you 
describe them. Know the plot so well 
that no small disturbance can throw 
you off the trend of the story. Remem¬ 
ber that each story, well told, has a 
good beginning, a climax and a satis¬ 
factory ending. You need not apologize 
for telling the same story over and over 
again. If it is worth telling once, it is 
worth repeating. 

There are many inherent values in 
story telling. There is a physical value. 
It is relaxing just to listen to a tale 
unfold. Bed-time stories, if they are not 
too exciting, promote a gradual drowsi¬ 
ness on the part of small children. It is 
an excellent custom in a junior camp 
to have stories told in each cabin for 
about twenty minutes after the children 
are tucked into bed. There is a tendency 
to settle down more quickly and it pro¬ 
vides insurance against homesickness. 

There is an educational value as well. 
Stories reveal life in different surround¬ 
ings and various periods in world his¬ 
tory. Like a magic carpet, a story can 
transport one to far-away lands and 
long-ago days, and one can relive the 
dramatic experiences of the great men 
and women of fiction and biography. 

A good story may have tremen¬ 
dous influence in character building. 
Through the strivings and courage, the 
daring and idealism of others, we are 
often inspired to emulate their deeds. 

There is a vast wealth of material 
available. Many modern children’s 


10 


Canadian Camping 



books arc enchanting. Many of the 
oldest tales are being republished and 
dressed up with beautiful illustrations. 
Let us not neglect poetry. The stories 
in narrative poems are easy to learn. 
There arc ballads with a rich store of 
excitement and romance, and many 
nonsense rhymes are popular in camp 
life. The range of fine stories is almost 
unlimited. 

The ideal story teller is one whose 


love for life gives zest to what he says 
and docs, whose sense of humor is un¬ 
failing; one who has a sympathetic in¬ 
terest in all kinds of people, and a sense 
of wonder for the amazing out-of-doors. 
From his art of story telling, he not only 
gives lavishly, of entertainment and in¬ 
spiration, but he gains rich rewards for 
himself, and is humbly grateful that he 
is a channel through which may pass 
to others some of the treasures of the 
story world. 


A story is a magic key to a child's mind and heart. 
Wise teachers and parents should make full use of it. 

Angelo Patri. 




The Camp Directors 

Dividends 

Bruno Morawetz, M.A., 

Camp Ponacka. 


I once asked a young woman how it 
feels to be a mother. Her reply was: 
“It is wonderful. Of course, sometimes 
I get annoyed, but when I go into the 
baby’s room in the morning and there 
she lies awake, smiling at you, that 
second alone is worth everything in the 
world.” 

There arc many incidents in the life 
of a camp director which are worth 
“everything in the world.’ Who would 
forego the opportunity of reading a 
story to a group of tired little boys, 
safely tucked in? The priceless gems 
that strike your ear after “lights out” 
and the overheard conversations meant 
for “men” only, are ample return for a 
hectic day. 


What camp director does not love to 
sit in the evening listening to the coun¬ 
selor’s stories of the day’s highlights. 
Still better times are the evenings in 
the fall and winter, when irksome wor¬ 
ries have vanished, when the toil is for¬ 
gotten, and only the fruits remain. 

When my mind wanders back to the 
good days at camp, the first thing to 
strike me is the wholesomeness of camp 
life. I rejoice in the laughing faces, 
hearty appetites, the thrill of the be¬ 
ginner’s first strokes, the satisfaction 
from a thing made with two little 
hands, the manliness after a hard trip, 
the welcome of a parcel, the compassion 
of the nurse, the counselor’s enthusi¬ 
asm, the affection of a new friendship. 


Toronto , Canada , December , 1950 


11 



the excitement before Indian Council 
Fire^ the vehemence in friendly com¬ 
petition, the silly questions, the blush of 
a trespasser, the fervor on the portage, 
the rapture of discovery, the embarrass¬ 
ingly good memory of. youth, the 
warmth of the sun, the glistening stars, 
the songs of nature, the animals, the 
woods. Much of this is any man’s heri¬ 
tage. 

The camp director’s unique privilege 
is his campers. I shall never cease to 
marvel at the sincerity and honesty of 
young boys. That alone is worth 
“everything in the world”. In a small 
camp like ours, we can afford to be 
undcrorganized at times. In any family 
there is sometimes less and sometimes 
more at the dinner table. At outdoor 
suppers the hot dogs are sometimes 
counted and sometimes not. The line 
forms for “firsts”, then “seconds”, 
“thirds” and so on. No one keeps track 
of each boy’s consumption, yet I am 
sure that each boy joins the line where 
he belongs. Here, trust is honoured. 

Our boys are penalized for leaving 
their belongings where they should not 
be. The penalty is one-quarter of a 
precious chocolate bar, available once 
every two days. Often an item is found 
without a name tag. Knowing how 
careless boys are of their belongings, I 


find it remarkable that they will claim 
ownership of a torn, unclean sock at 
the expense of a cherished sweet. At 
the end of camp the tuck balance is 
made up. I know I can trust my camp¬ 
ers to report what craft materials they 
have used and extras which may not 
have been listed. Children are so re¬ 
freshing in their unconcern for wealth. 

When the boys leave, a lump forms in 
your throat, yet the director can not 
help but feel deeply satisfied. Some¬ 
times a boy even says “thank you” as 
you bid him farewell. 

Camp is over and letters come to 
your door. Some arc from parents, 
some imposed by parents. John is now 
willing to join in group games. Dick 
has gained more sell'-confidcnce than 
was deemed possible. Bob now has 
made the basketball team. Fred has 
taken on a paper route to save for next 
year’s camp. The Children’s Aid Soci¬ 
ety reports that the boy we sponsored 
at camp is at last able to adjust to a 
foster home. 

You browse through your snaps of 
the past summer. Hundreds of mem¬ 
ories surge up, little things completely 
gone from your memory. You pause 
and let them flow—these are the camp 
director’s dividends. 



12 . 


Canadian Camping 



Camp 

Sanitary 

Facilities 

R. K. Cleverdon, M.A.Sc., P.Eng, 

University of Toronto. Director , Camp Kandalore. 


The high standard of health which 
we know is so important in our modern 
Canadian camps, depends to a very 
large degree upon the standards which 
we set for our sanitary facilities. Safe 
drinking water, adequate refrigeration, 
and the correct disposal of kitchen and 
human wastes arc essential if we arc 
to keep our campers and our camps 
healthy. So often in the past, serious 
camp illnesses and epidemics of a 
minor nature have been traced back to 
inadequate sanitary precautions. In this 
article it is proposed to discuss the ad¬ 
vantages and disadvantages of the vari¬ 
ous methods available to the camp for 
the disposal of human wastes. 

At the bottom of the scale we find 
the crude open pits surrounded by a 
burlap screen, the only sanitary pre¬ 
caution consisting of a pile of sand and 
a shovel. Such methods were originally 
copied from army field manuals of the 
Boer War vintage, and since they leave 
so much to be desired, will be dismissed 
with a cursory “not suitable”. Regard¬ 
less of how short the camp term may 
be, or how limited the budget, the abso¬ 
lute minimum must be a completely 
covered painted box, with a tight-fitting 
lid, used in conjunction with a hole in 
the ground. Screening is essential, as 
is the daily application of chloride of 
lime. Wood ashes are also helpful. 
Flyspraying of the area is advised. Such 
methods arc only intended for one or 
two week camps, but if properly under¬ 
stood, are sufficiently suitable. 


Progressing to the next level of de¬ 
velopment, we find the camp copy of 
that time-honored feature of the farm, 
save perhaps only for the last year’s 
edition of the mail order catalogue. 
Despite its many disadvantages, the 
open-pit privy, as it is correctly called, 
is still the most common type of camp 
toilet, and will probably remain so for 
many years to come. It consists of a 
hole dug in the ground, a frame build¬ 
ing and certain minor additions. Its 
principal disadvantage is that the waste 
material is destroyed at a very slow rate 
if at all, and the building must there¬ 
fore be moved frequently. Throughout 
its life the privy is thus subject to the 
invasion by flies. The moving of the 
building is facilitated by erecting the 
structure on two cedar or red oak skid 
logs firmly braced at each end; the 
building can then be moved easily by 
a truck or a team of horses. The life 
of the privy in each location can be ex¬ 
tended by frequent application of wood 
ashes during the summer, and a heavy 
layer of ashes and lye at the end of 
camp. This seems to speed up the dis¬ 
integration of the excrement. Daily ap¬ 
plications of chloride of lime, fly spray, 
and daily washing of the seats are 
recommended. The floors and seats 
should be painted. The building itself 
should be flytight, have a screened ven¬ 
tilator near the top and spring hinges 
on the door. All seats must have covers ; 
regular toilet seats with covers can be 
purchased for about seven dollars, and 
will greatly improve the appearance of 


Toronto, Canada, December, 1950 


13 



the privy. A sign posted inside each 
privy, requesting those using it to shut 
the seat covers on leaving, will be found 
to be useful. One precaution must be 
mentioned: frequently there are holes 
around the sides of the building through 
which flies can gain access to the pit. 
This is serious, and must be checked 
regularly throughout .the season. It can 
be remedied easily by boards or dirt 
piled against the building. It must be 
emphasized that although the pit privy 
is very commonly used, it is at its best 
an absolute minimum standard. Care¬ 
ful attention to the daily inspection is 
essential. Otherwise serious health diffi¬ 
culties may result. 

More and more camps are adopting 
the next refinement — the semi-septic 
tank, often called the “bucket a day” 
type. This consists of a steel (or occa¬ 
sionally concrete) tank buried in the 
ground, over which sits a hopper-type 
china closet bowl connected to the tank 
by a 12 inch drop tube. The outlet of 
the steel tank is connected by a short 
length of steel pipe to a line of field 
tile, which in turn leads to a leeching 
pit. The tank is ventilated by a three 
inch pipe connected to the back of the 
closet and running through the roof of 
the building. One pail of water must 
be added daily to ensure the proper 
action of the tank. The tank operates 
on the septic tank principle, which may 
be described in a very simple way: The 
solids settle to the bottom of the tank, 
where they are attacked by bacteria 
present in the liquid. Gas is formed on 
the surface of the solid particles by this 
bacteria action while at the same time 
the solids are partially disintegrated. 
Due to the buoyancy of the gas, the 
particles rise to the surface, the gas is 
liberated through the ventilator, and 
the particles settle to the bottom of the 
tank to repeat the process. The semi- 
septic tank toilet lacks the flushing 
effect and other advantages of the regu¬ 
lar septic tank system for which running 
water is required, but it appears to have 


the same general type of action. About 
90% of the solid material is completely 
disintegrated by the process. However, 
since the tank will eventually have to 
be cleaned of the inert solids and any 
foreign matter, a cleanout hole with 
lid is fitted to most tanks. The principal 
disadvantages are that the action does 
not entirely destroy the waste, a strong 
smell is noticed under certain condi¬ 
tions, the steel tank must be located 
directly beneath the closet, which may 
be awkward in rocky terrain, and some¬ 
times the droptube gets clogged from 
paper. 

Certain points in the installation 
must be attended to carefully, and since 
some camps may wish to purchase the 
materials and install the toilets them¬ 
selves, they will be mentioned. The 
tank should be completely buried, and 
this should be done before the building 
is erected over top where possible. The 
outlet should be connected by threaded 
three inch pipe about one foot long to 
the first length of standard four inch 
farm tile. The rest of the tile pipes 
should be spaced one-quarter inch 
apart, the joints being covered by tar¬ 
paper to stop dirt falling in, and the 
whole buried by about 18 inches of 
sand. Ten feet of tile should be suffi¬ 
cient, but the end tile should lead to a 
pit about 3 feet square by 18 inches 
deep, filled with large stones and 
covered by boards and earth. The 
droptube from the closet bowl must be 
copper (galvanized iron will rust 
through in two years), and must be 
tightly attached to the steei tank. The 
joint can be caulked with oakum and 
pitch. The ventilator pipe from the 
closet through the roof should be gal¬ 
vanized iron or aluminum, and should 
be carried up the inside of the roof to 
as high a point as possible to ensure 
good draft. A metal roof flashing is 
used to keep the roof watertight, and 
a “no down draft” type of top fitting 
is added. Down draft caused by too 
short a ventilator pipe, overhanging 


14 


Canadian Camping 


trees, or the omission of the fitting, is 
the cause of most of the offensive 
odour. The closet should have a regu¬ 
lar toilet seat and cover. Steel septic 
tanks with provision for from one to 
six toilets may be purchased. A single 
toilet outfit with a 120 gallon tank (no 
smaller is recommended) will cost 
about $100 to $125, plus installation; 
The costs are proportionate on larger 
installations, though careful purchasing 
will effect some economies. As soon as 
the toilet is installed, the tank should 
be filled with water, and the addition 
of some baker’s yeast appears to help 
start the septic action. Under all ordi¬ 
nary conditions, this type of toilet in¬ 
stallation should give years of trouble- 
free service. It is unquestionably the 
best system yet devised for the camp 
setting. 

For those camps with larger budgets, 
or where the living quarters are close 
enough together to allow the grouping 
of sanitary facilities, the final refine¬ 
ment will be discussed. The flush toilet, 
using running water and disposing of 
the waste by a septic tank, is the best 
possible solution to the problem. Some 
camps may wish to use the “bucket a 
day” type in the outlying portions of 
the camp, and install a regular wash¬ 
room for staff, visitors or general use in 
the main area. Since this type of toilet 
is commonly used throughout our cities, 
no description is necessary, but a few 
figures and suggestions may be helpful. 
To begin with, a supply of running 
water must be available. A half-inch 
supply pipe will be needed for two or 
three units, but a three-quarter inch 
pipe will suffice for a battery installa¬ 
tion. This assumes that domestic type 
toilets with tanks be used; the institu¬ 
tional toilets usually have no tank, but 
instead rely on the flushing action of a 
large volume of water under consider¬ 
able pressure, supplied from the main 
through a so-called flush valve fitting. 
They should not be considered for a 


camp installation. The shape of the 
toilet bowl forms a trap in which the 
water seal prevents the escape of sewer 
gas into the room. This trap must be 
vented to prevent the siphoning out of 
this water seal and to allow the escape 
of such gas; usually a three inch stack 
is located in the vicinity of the installa¬ 
tion, which is used to vent all the toilets 
and washbasins in the unit. In the 
typical installation there is a great deal 
of work behind the wall, which cannot 
be seen, but which must be paid for. 
That is why the cost may appear ex¬ 
cessive at first glance. The waste 
material is carried away by a cast iron 
or tile sewer not less than four inches 
in diameter to a septic tank. A single 
toilet will cost about $175 installed, 
while a battery of three, reasonably 
close to one another, will cost about 
$400. This does not include the drain 
pipe from the building to the septic 
tank, the cost of which depends on the 
length of run, but will average one 
dollar per foot for four inch tile drain. 

The septic tank is usually made of con¬ 
crete. It consists of two compartments, 
the first in which the same sort of septic 
tank action previously described takes 
place, and the second, fed by overflow 
from the first, retains the effluent until 
a sufficient quantity is accumulated, 
when a siphon fitting in the tank oper¬ 
ates to send all the liquid out into the 
tile disposal bed. This periodic dis¬ 
charge is better than a continuous 
gradual discharge, since it tends to 
flush out the tile lines. If 50 people are 
using the toilets connected to a septic 
tank daily, a capacity of 1250 gallons 
for the first compartment is recom¬ 
mended. This size is established for 
summer camps, where it is recognized 
that the frequency of use and the quan¬ 
tity of water is not as great as in a 
residence. It includes enough capacity 
for about four wash basins as well. A 
two-compartment septic tank with 1250 
gallons capacity in the first compart- 


T or onto, Canada , December, 1950 


15 


ment will be about 5 feet wide, 5 feet 
high and 15 feet long, and should cost 
about $350, complete with fittings. 
Nothing whatsoever is gained by un¬ 
derdesigning a septic tank. The period 
for which the material is retained is 
reduced to the danger point, with the 
result that untreated sewage is dis¬ 
charged into the disposal bed. The tile 
bed for the above 1 size of tank should 
have about 600 lineal feet of 4 inch 
drain tile where absorptioh is excellent 
as in sand, and more where it is slower. 
An area about 50 feet by 60 feet is 
needed to handle 600 feet of tile. It is 
difficult to estimate the cost of a tile 
bed, since local ground conditions are 
such a big item in labour costs. It 
would be advisable either to get some 
estimates locally, or buy the tile and 
have regular camp help install it. The 
liquid draining out of the tile may still 
contain harmful bacteria, so it must not 
be allowed to run into a swimming area 
or near a water intake line from a sur¬ 
face water supply. 

There are a great many other points 
which must be considered in installing 
a complete septic tank system. How¬ 
ever, the space requirements of this 
article will not permit a more complete 
treatment. The author will be pleased 
to deal with any specific inquiries 


should any camp director be contem¬ 
plating such an installation. 

And finally, to deal with one more 
point. How many toilets do we need in 
a camp? Separate units are required 
for staff and visitors, and so the answer 
here depends on the location of the 
staff quarters in the camp. As for the 
campers, the usual figure is one toilet 
to each ten children, but not less than 
two toilets in any living area. Probably 
a four toilet unit would be sufficient 
for any section of a camp, even up to 
about 60 children, should the sections 
be that large. It is recommended, 
though, in sections of that size, that two 
separate units be installed, each having 
either two or three toilets. Under cer¬ 
tain conditions, semi-septic toilets can 
be installed right in campers’ cabins, 
which is certainly an advantage for 
younger children. One to a cabin of 
eight boys and two counselors has been 
found satisfactory. 

May we leave you with a parting 
thought? Regardless of which system 
you have in your camp, be always con¬ 
scious of your duty to your camp to 
watch the sanitation carefully, be 
especially careful of fly precautions, and 
try to build up the cooperation of the 
campers and staff in making your camp 
as healthy and safe as your own home. 


SUPPORT OUR ADVERTISERS 
They Support i6 Canadian Camping 99 


16 


Canadian Camping 



Camps that 
are Different 

They were coming toward me down 
the main street, one a sturdy lad of 
eleven, pushing a wheelchair in which 
sat his older brother, a frail, fourteen- 
year-old spastic. I stopped to chat with 
them, and David, the younger, was bub¬ 
bling over as usual, with enthusiasm. 
“I went to camp this summer”, he said, 
“and boy, it was grand!” He was pour¬ 
ing forth exuberantly about the wonder¬ 
ful diving tow£r and a canoe trip, when 
the wheelchair patient broke in, “I 
went to camp, too!” It seemed unbe¬ 
lievable that for a boy with jerky move¬ 
ments and useless legs, there could be 
anywhere a place offering the happy 
experiences of camp. He went on to 
tell eagerly of Merrywood Gamp On- 
The-Rideau, where he had spent two 
amazing weeks. 

Merrywood Camp is just one of the 
many camps that are ministering to 
children and adults with handicaps. 
There are in Ontario, three camps 
operated by the Society for Crippled 
Children. The one mentioned, Merry- 
wood-On-The-Rideau, Blue Mountain 
Camp on Georgian Bay and Woodeden, 
near London, Ontario. At these camps, 
to be handicapped is to be normal, and 
the child who is too physically handi¬ 
capped for an ordinary camp, will find 
the program adapted to his disability. 

One might picture a camp for crip¬ 
pled children as a group of children 
sitting in wheel chairs, being enter¬ 
tained, but if they should visit one of 
these camps they would find a hive of 
activity. Swimming, as with so-called 
normal children, is the most popular 
sport and has therapeutic value. Base¬ 
ball, Archery, Dramatics, Arts and 
Crafts and, strangely enough, over-night 
camping trips are very popular with 
even some of the most handicapped 
children. 


The time is past when a physical 
handicap meant a closed door to doing' 
the things “the normal kids do”, and 
with this idea in mind, new horizons 
are opened up, which would otherwise 
not be attained. 

Then, too, there is Illahee Lodge, the 
camp which is operated by the Neigh¬ 
bourhood Workers’ Association of To¬ 
ronto, and located at Cobourg, on the 
shores of Lake Ontario. This camp 
was launched in 1946 as an experiment. 
Its purpose is to give health and holi¬ 
day care to children suffering from 
heart and chest conditions and diabetes. 
A very special set up was required and 
expensive equipment needed, but there 
have been five successful seasons and 
the camp is now firmly established. 
More than 150 children have been 
helped in one season. Each child is given 
three weeks’ holiday, and his or her in¬ 
dividual needs are carefully studied. 

Though Illahee was founded primarily 
as a Health Centre, it 1 has a well- 
rounded program of camp activities 
suited to its campers. There is swim¬ 
ming, and the beach supplies endless 
interest for the children. Music is 
emphasized and craft work is popular 
with both boys and girls. Some of them 
have even been able to enjoy the thrill 
of a fishing expedition and an over-night 
trip. Food is important at any camp, 
but even more so to the diabetic child 
whose food has to be weighed to the 
fraction of a gram. 

Illahee Lodge has another important 
function, for during part of the season 
it becomes a camp for elderly people. 
There are three parties, one in early 
summer, and two at the end of the 
season, when older men and women 
enjoy the companionship and enter¬ 
tainment of camp life. More than 150 ; 
of them, all aged 60 or over, and most 
of them in their 70’s and 80’s. How 
they enjoy the beautiful surroundings, 
the good food and the opportunity of 


Toronto , Canada , December , 1950 


17 


making new social contacts. For one 
woman it was her first holiday since 
arriving in Canada twenty-nine years 
a:go. For all of them, it is an experience 
they eagerly hope to repeat. 

Each summer camping is becoming 
more popular with blind people, and 
the Canadian National Institute for the 
Blind sponsors five summer camps in 
different parts of Canada. 

This summer, Alberta enjoyed its first 
experience with a summer camp, which 
proved very successful. The camp was 
situated on Sylvan Lake, halfway be¬ 
tween Alberta’s two major cities, Cal¬ 
gary and Edmonton. 

The people of Saint John, New 
Brunswick, enjoyed camp activities at 
the Saint John Lion’s Club Camp at 
Loch Lomond. The camp opened on 
July 5th and closed August 30th. There 
were four camp periods of two weeks 
each. 

Approximately 100 campers attended 
Vancouver’s ten-day camp period at 


Orlomah Beach, B.C. This camping 
venture was considered the most suc¬ 
cessful of Vancouver’s camp experi¬ 
ences since their origin in 1948. Another 
camp, a few miles from Victoria, B.C., 
was well attended and enjoyed by resi¬ 
dents of that city and of Vancouver 
Island. 

Approximately 140 Ontario campers 
attended the two ten-day camp periods 
at Ancaster. 

The activities enjoyed by most of 
these campers include active sports, 
such as swimming, bowling, horseshoe 
pitching and boating; quieter games 
such as cards, bingo, ring toss and bean- 
bag throwing; group activities such as 
amateur performances, quiz contests, 
concerts, dancing and handicrafts. 

These are just a few of the “camps 
that are different”, which are contrib¬ 
uting so much to the happiness and 
well being of hundreds of children and 
adults who now can enjoy the many 
pleasures of camp life, previously only 
available to the young and the healthy. 


QoodcXafjt SEMI-PREPARED FOODS can help you serve 
nourishing, flavourful meals with maximum efficiency and minimum 


cost. 


QUALITY - - the favourite of famous chefs. 

NUTRITION - used in major hospitals and other institutions 
throughout Canada. 

ECONOMY - simple preparation, minimum of kitchen staff; 
savings up to 18 % reported. 

Write or telephone today for full information. 

FOODCRAFT GUARANTEED PRODUCTS 
for industrial and institutional use exclusively 


Cream Pudding Mix 
Pie Fillings 
Meringue Powder 
Jelly Powder 
Beverage Syrups 
Soup Bases 
Gravy Base 


Soup Vegetables 
Salad Dressing 
Gingerbread Mix 
Bran Muffin Mix 
Wheat Cake Mix 
Doughnut Mix 
Cake Mix 


Pie Fruit Stabilizer 
Jam and Marmalade 
Sundae Toppings 
Sundae Fruits 
Table Syrup 
Fruit Crystals 
Flavours 


FOODCRAFT LABORATORIES LIMITED 

20-24 POULETTE STREET 1462 BISHOP STREET, ROOM 15 

TORONTO, ONTARIO MONTREAL, P.Q. 


18 


Canadian Camping 




International 
Canoe Tripe 

Submitted by Anne I. Vail 
for Scotty Brotman 

Canoe tripping is an important part 
of Canadian Camping, and a unique 
venture was reported at a meeting of 
the Quebec Camping Association on 
November 24th. 

Scotty Brotman loves the out-of-doors 
and is a keen and enthusiastic camper. 
For the past five seasons, Scotty has led 
a crew of eight on a trip from Montreal 
to New York. He initiated these trips 
because they bring a great deal of en¬ 
joyment and because he firmly believes 
that there is no better way of training 
campers to take care of themselves. 
Scotty also heads his own personal 
crusade to bring adults in touch with 
the outdoors and he takes every oppor¬ 
tunity to publicize canoe trips as a 
healthy, enjoyable and inexpensive way 
of spending leisure time. 

These canoe trips have been a great 
success. It is not often that a group of 
young men in this country travel over 
four hundred miles in such a frail craft 
as a nineteen foot canoe. 

The route taken by these hardy 
paddlers starts at Victoria Pier in 
Montreal, where they push off across 
the swift running water of the St. 
Lawrence to St. Lambert on the south¬ 
ern shore. Here the canoe is taken out 
of the water and, to save some eighty 
miles, trucked to St. Jean’s, Quebec, 
and there it is put on the waters of the 
Richelieu River. From there the pad¬ 
dlers travel down the river to Lake 
Champlain (shades of history and Ken¬ 
neth Roberts) on the first real leg of 
the marathon journey. They pass the 
Canadian Customs at Lacolle and the 
American Customs at Rouses Point. 

Then comes the long bout down 
Lake Champlain, often a very rough 
stretch of water even in the summer. 
It is not unusual to have to fight five 
foot waves! When these combine with 
the heavy backwash of the large ships 

Toronto, Canada, December, 1950 



... for reaching your best camp 
prospects... is the Camp Direc¬ 
tory in the Herald Tribune’s This 
Week Magazine Section! With 
700,000 circulation every Sunday, 
it blankets homes in the upper 
bracket sections of New York, 
New Jersey and Connecticut and 
is read from coast to coast... by 
people aware of the benefits chil¬ 
dren get from camp, and inter¬ 
ested in finding the best! If you’d 
like to talk to these top income 
families, better blaze This Week 
on your advertising list... right 
now! Write or wire for full details! 



CAMP DIRECTORY 
IN THE HERALD TRIRUNE 

230 West 41st Street, New York 18, N. Y. 




THE PUBLISHERS OF CANADIAN CAMPING 
OFFER YOU A BRAND NEW SERVICE 


• Many of our subscribers have 
been in touch with us requesting 
information concerning the pro¬ 
duction of advertising and publicity 
material. In answer to these 
requests, we are now equipped to 
prepare and produce finished 
printed folders, booklets, bro¬ 
chures and other publicity matter 
for camp directors. 


Forward your problems to us outlining 
your requirements - - - 

They will receive prompt attention. 


Canadian Camping Magazine Company 

170 BLOOR STREET WEST, TORONTO, CANADA 


20 


Canadian Camping 





that ply the lake, there is many an 
exciting moment, requiring clever steer¬ 
ing and heavy paddling to keep the 
canoe from being swamped. 

From Ticonderoga, the canoe cuts 
west along the Ticonderoga River to 
Lake St. George. This is regarded as 
the highlight of the trip, for the St. 
George boasts the loveliest scenery and 
clearest water in all New York State. 
In fact, the lake is known as the Lake 
Louise of the east! On reaching the 
southermost tip, the canoe is again put 
on a truck and taken to the Hudson 
River, around the Hudson Falls. Then 
it’s down the Hudson, through in¬ 
numerable locks to New York City. 

Scotty, in telling of the 1950 trip, 
stressed the fellowship, the magnificent 
hospitality of our neighbors, the friend¬ 
ships made and renewed, and the many 
lessons in cooperation, where the indi¬ 
vidual must be concerned first with the 
safety and happiness of the whole crew. 

Such a canoe trip, with all its mean¬ 
ing, is an integral part of the tremen¬ 
dous privilege of Camping in Canada. 



EXTRA! 

Exciting News! 

The Canadian Camping Association 
has passed another milestone, and the 
Executive is proud to announce that 
we now have a National Office. After 
exploring all kinds of possibilities, such 
as joint premises, being housed in other 
people’s offices, we finally decided it 
was time to act, not to plan. In 
October, we signed the lease. Full of 
hope and irrepressible enthusiasm, we 
surveyed our large room, complete with 
a good sized cupboard, two large win¬ 
dows and bare walls and floors. The 
address is 771 BURNSIDE, Montreal; 
telephone Harbour 4350. (Eaton’s 
parking lot is just across the street.) 


, Depend on PARENTS’.MAGAZINE to produce 
more .enrollments for. your camp every year... 


Most camps do! 

In fact, more camps advertise in PARENT'S 
MAGAZINE than in any other leading consumer 
magazine. 

Mothers and fathers 

. . . depend on PARENTS' MAGAZINE for guidance 
in selection of camps for their children. 

That's why your ad in PARENTS' MAGAZINE is 
sure to be read by more than 1,250,000 families 
with well over 2,500,000 children — your besf 
enrollment prospects. 

What's more: 

PARENTS' MAGAZINE offers the lowest rate per 
thousand families with children among all leading 
consumer magazines in the camp field. 

PARENTS' MAGAZINE offers nearly 100% no-waste 
circulation in families with children . . . reaches 
MORE of your prospects for every dollar spent. 
All other magazines reach an average of 50% 
families WITHOUT children. 

For rates and details, write to: 

JOSEPHINE CHRENKO, Dir. School & Camp Dept. 

PARENTS’ MAGAZINE 

52 Vanderbilt Avenue 
New York 17, N.Y. 


NEW BOOKS . . . 

Leadership of Teen-Age Groups 

Dorothy M. Roberts $3.85 

Principles for organization, leadership 
and program planning that have 
proven effective with teen-age groups. 

Recreation Activities for Adults 

National Recreation Association $3.85 
A fun book for mixed groups with 
hundreds of indoor and outdoor games 
that adults like. A how-to-do-it 
section for leaders. 

Gay Parties for All Occasions 

E. O. Harbin $3.85 

72 parties, 200 games, stunts and 
riddles. All complete and by the 
author of the Fun Encyclopedia. 

Facts of Life and Love for Teen-Agers 

Evelyn M. Duvall $3.85 

A big, 384-page book for teen-agers, 
their parents and teachers. Etiquette 
and facts for teen-age social relations, 

Mrs. Duvall is consultant for National 
Council on Family Relations. 

Order from Your Bookstore 

or 

G. R. WELCH COMPANY 

LIMITED 

1149 King St. West Toronto 1, Ont. 


Toronto, Canada , December, 1950 


21 




Wc arc modest in our plans, but in 
no time at all, we had a rug for the 
floor, had purchased a typewriter desk 
and chair, and borrowed a typewriter 
to be used until we find the one we 
want to buy. At a rummage sale, we 
secured a standard lamp and a beauti¬ 
ful McCaskel photograph, “Marine”. 
Fifty bricks and some boards lent by a 
camp will provide a book-case; two 
tables and a few chairs, loans from 
other camps, will give us working space. 
Other things we know will arrive, be¬ 
cause Dais Gass, our Past President, 
convenes a committee on Office Fur¬ 
nishings. 

Agnes Mutchler has been appointed 
part-time Executive Secretary. The 
office will be open mornings, and Agnes 
and your President, Anne Vail, will get 
the office organized. Dorothy Percival 
can now clear her apartment of mem¬ 
bership files and work with them at the 
office. Ruby Smith will look after 
pamphlets and books, and Dais Gass 
will make the place look beautiful, 
though simple and campy. We already 
have our filing cabinets. There are 
volunteers who will gladly assist now 
that we have our own place in which 
to work and keep things ship-shape. 
Evenings will see much work accomp¬ 
lished. 

No more stalling! No more delays 
while we look for things that could be 
in any of three or four offices! What 
a joy! 

Two Counselors are working on a 
map of Canada for the wall, and we’ll 
pin our members to the map! Will you 
be there? Make sure by joining, if you 
are not already a member. Let us all 
get behind the GCA and make it an 
association of which we can be proud, 
because through it we serve the Camp¬ 
ing interests and needs of Canadians. 

We are ready to roll—give us a push! 

Anne I. Vail. 


Course on 
Outdoor Living 

A course of ten lectures has been ar¬ 
ranged by the University Extension De¬ 
partment of the University of Toronto, 
beginning at 8 p.m., on January 10th, 
1951. The director of the course is Miss 
Margaret Govan, Ontario Camping 
Association and director of Camp 
Onawaw. The following lectures will 
be given: 

1. Jan. 10—General Introduction—the 
camp trip. Representative, Depart¬ 
ment of Lands and Forests. 

2. Jan. 17—Preparing for a camp trip 
—map-reading—how to choose a 
camp site. Douglas Conney, Boy 
Scouts Association. 

3. Jan. 24—Overall picture of the 
things seen on a trip. A. F. 
Coventry, Department of Zoology. 

4. Jan. 31—Being comfortable on a 
trip—using nature’s facilities: woods 
for fire-making, edible plants, etc. 
C. R. Blackstock, Pickering College, 
Newmarket. 

5. Feb. 7—Animals met on the trip. 
Andy Lawrie, Department of Zool¬ 
ogy* 

6. Feb. 14—Rocks encountered on the 
trip and what they mean. V. B. 
Meen, Royal Ontario Museum of 
Geology and Mineralogy. 

7. Feb. 21—What to do on a wet or 
windy day. Andy Lawrie, Depart¬ 
ment of Zoology. 

8. Feb. 28—Camp Crafts. Ellsworth 
Jaeger, Buffalo Museum of Science. 

9. March 7—Camp Sketch Book — 
painting. John A. Hall, Department 
of Art and Archaeology. 

10. March 14—General summing up 
and recourse material. Miss Mar¬ 
garet Govan, Ontario Camping 
Association. 

Application forms may be obtained 
from University of Extension, Simcoe 
Hall, Toronto. Fee for the entire series 
—$6.00. No academic requirements 


22 


Canadian Camping 



Booh" Reviews 


YOUR OWN BOOK OF GAMP- 
GRAFT : By Catherine T. Ham¬ 
mett. Published, 1950, by the Pocket 
Book Jrs. Obtainable in Canada 
from G. R. Welch Co., Toronto, 25c. 

The “Raison d’etre” of this book is 
“How to have more fun outdoors—the 
where, why and how of successful 
camping”, and no one is better quali¬ 
fied to write on this subject than 
Catherine Hammett. She is, herself, a 
camper of high repute. Recently, she 
was in charge of the Girl Scout Camps 
of U.S.A., and now directs her own 
training centre for outdoor living in 
Vermont. 

It is a practical guide to fun outdoors 
and will appeal to anyone from pic¬ 
nicker to the wilderness camper. Assum¬ 
ing that most of us are campers at 
heart, the book begins with a challenge: 
“Come on Out!”, and then proceeds 
to set forth the unsurpassed fun of 
camping, by chapter after chapter, 
crammed with the practical ideas use¬ 
ful or necessary for successful outdoor 
life. Here are some of the skills de¬ 
scribed in simple step-by-step fashion: 
packing food and equipment, fire build¬ 
ing, lashing, preparing a bedroll, tent 
pitching, cooking, fun around the 
campfire. 

Prepared by an expert, under the 
auspices of the American Camping As¬ 


sociation, this book will prove an in¬ 
valuable aid to every camper, whether 
experienced or a beginner—it is such an 
inexpensive and well-illustrated manual, 
that it will definitely meet a need for 
every camp-craft counselor as a refer¬ 
ence book. 


CANADA, YOUR COUNTRY: By 

J. W. Chafe. Published by the Ryer- 

son Press, June 1950, Toronto; pp. 
395; price, $1.45. 

Anyone who can tell the stories of 
Canada’s early days and captivate the 
imaginations of boys and girls, has ren¬ 
dered a tremendous service to our 
country. Can you remember how dull- 
as-dust were some of our old school 
history books? This book, “Canada, 
Your Country”, is a school book pre¬ 
pared for Grades VI to VIII, but it 
will be read for pleasure as well as 
information. The author uses numerous 
anecdotes which make historical char¬ 
acters real-life people. Often at camp, 
in preparing talks, we would be happy 
to have such a book at hand for 
illustrations of courage, pioneer-spirit, 
statesmanship, which have made our 
country what she is today. In these days 
of steadily-rising costs, it is amazing to 
find such a book of nearly four hundred 
pages at the surprising price of $1.45. 


CANADIAN CAMPING 

Published Four Times per Year 

For ADDITIONAL SUBSCRIPTIONS or SEPARATE COPIES 
at $1.00 per year or 25 cents per copy, complete this form. 

NAME ...,..... 

ADDRESS.:..... 

CAMP or ORGANIZATION..... 

Please remit by Money Order or Cheque at par in Toronto, payable to "CANADIAN 
CAMPING" and mail to 170 Bloor Street West, Toronto, Ontario. 

Official Publication — Canadian Camping Association 


Toronto, Canada, December, 1950 


23 





J_J_ 

TRADING 

POST 


COLORFUL YULE LOGS 

Equally effective for the Christmas 
fire, or for a rainy night story-hour at 
camp, these logs with their gorgeous 
colors, will evoke exclamations of de¬ 
light and create the magic atmosphere 
needed for “Once upon a time”. Inci¬ 
dentally, they are excellent to use as 
novelty gifts and are easy and inex¬ 
pensive to make. 

These logs are made from old maga¬ 
zines or newspapers of the desired 
length and thickness, rolled tightly and 
tied securely with twine. Soak over 
night in the chemical solution 4 and then 
allow to dry for two or three days before 
storing them away until required for 
your holiday season fires. The recipe is 
simple—merely mix one pound of the 
chemical required in a gallon of water 
and toss in your magazines or papers. 
To obtain a variety of colors in one 
log, soak individual sheets of paper in 
the different solutions, then roll the 


MYERS & COUCH LTD. 

2482 Dufferin Street 

REdfern 4257 Toronto, Ontario 

‘ Distributors of 

Beardmore Dehydrated Foods 
Schwartz Peanut Butter 
Downyflalce Baking Mixes 
Boontonware (Melmac) Dishes 
Sunfilled Fruit Juices 
E. D. Smith Products 


treated papers tightly and secure with 
string. 

Chemicals required to obtain the 
various colors: 

Green—Borax; Emerald Green—Cop¬ 
per nitrate; Apple Green—Barium ni¬ 
trate; Red—Strontium nitrate; Violet 
—Potassium chlorate; Blue—Bluestone 
(copper sulphate) ; Yellow—Potassium 
nitrate or sodium chloride; Purple— 
Lithium chloride; Orange—Calcium 
chloride. 

SCRAMBLES 

Children, wherever they are found 
and however old they arc, have a 
perennial passion for scrambles. The 
evening program is over and the camp¬ 
ers, seated in a circle in the recreation 
hall, arc about to leave. Just as they 
arise, the leader reaches behind a 
screen, pulls out a basket filled with 
candy kisses, and throws its contents 
wildly across the floor! A second or 
two of surprised silence, and pande¬ 
monium breaks loose as the campers 
dive to the happy task of filling pockets 
to overflowing. Or perhaps, it is a half 
bushel of apples. Three elements make 
of the scramble a memorable event 
always the element of sudden surprise 
(for it should be so handled that none 
anticipate it), the joy resulting from 
the competition of the scramble itself, 
and the unexpected treat of something 
good to eat. 

FISH IN A BAG 

From Catherine Hammett’s book, re¬ 
viewed in this issue, “Your Own Book 
of Campcraft”, we give you an inter¬ 
esting non-utensil recipe which seems 
easy to prepare and would probably 
taste delicious. 

J 4 -J /3 lb. solid white fish per person 
(cod, haddock or any fillet is good) 
Salt and pepper 

Lemon butter (3 tablespoons melted 
butter with 1 tablespoon lemon juice) 
or a small piece of butter 


24 


Canadian Camping 



Heavy wax paper 
Newspaper or small paper bags 
Good bed of coals 

Place piece of fish in a good-sized 
piece of wax paper; salt and pepper it, 
and add lemon butter or piece of butter. 
Wrap wax paper around fish, turning 
it on all sides. Then wrap well in bag 
or newspaper that has been soaked in 
water. Have a good bed of coals ready 
and place the packet on top of the 
coals; leave for about 20 to 30 minutes, 
depending on size of fish, turning once. 
If paper becomes too dry, remove from 
fire and wet again; then return to coals. 
It cooks by steaming. 




GUMPERT HAS EVERYTHING 



FOR THE FINEST IN FOODS 


GUMPERT 


HAS EVERYTHING 


S. GUMPERT CO. OF CANADA, LTD. 

31 BROCK AVE., TORONTO ME. 5758 


SEPTIC TOILETS 

for 

CAMPS and COTTAGES 

A septic system without chemical, 
running water or hydro 

Absolutely Frost Proof 

• 

Over 20,000 installations 
Approved by Health authorities 
Canadas O’dest Manufacturer 

Caustic Sanitation Ltd. 

21 Ridley Blvd. 

Toronto, Ontario - HUdson 7722 
Head Office: Dundas, Ontario 



MATERIALS & SUPPLIES 
FOR ALL 

ARTS AND CRAFTS 



INTRODUCING . . . 

Some New Ideas 
for Craft Workers 

Lewiscraft have devised some new ideas for 
crafly people to increase their artistic ability. 

And exclusive ideas at that! 

And you can get all handicraft supplies from 
one source—be it wool, tools, metals, leather 
sculpstone. instruction books or art supplies. 

Our Link Belts and Mac-A Mocs are just right 
for making and wearing at camp. 

You name it . Lewiscraft has it . . 

everything for the craft worker. This “one 
source service" saves time and money. 

New ideas beckon, and the mail order service 
is fast and convenient for out-of-town craft 
| workers. Let the craft catalogue help you | 
choose. 25c for packaging makes it yours. 
Order your craft needs from it. 

8 Bathurst Street, Toronto 

Branch Stores: 

Toronto—645 Yonge Street 

I Winnipeg—425 Graham Avenue I 


sleeved SufifilieA 

CANADA’S FOREMOST CRAFT SUPPLY HOUSE 


Toronto, Canada, December, 1950 


25 






OUR FRIENDS 
The Advertisers . . . 

Please mention ‘'Canadian Camping ” 
when contacting advertisers. 


Camping Magazine . 27 

Canadian Camping Magazine Co.. 20-3 

Caustic Sanitation Ltd. 25 

T. Eaton Co. Ltd. 3 

Foodcraft Laboratories Ltd. 18 

Gibbons Quickset Desserts...Inside Cover 

S. Gumpert Co. Ltd. 25 

Lewis Craft Supplies Ltd. 25 

Myers & Couch Ltd. 24 

New York Herald Tribune. 19 

Parents’ Magazine . 21 

Redbook Magazine . 4 

R. Simpson Co. Ltd.Back Cover 

J. J. Taylor & Sons Ltd. 4 

Vermont Accident Insurance Co. 6 

G. R. Welch Co. Ltd. 21 


CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING 


FOR SALE 

Well-established Private Camp on 
Lake Simcoe; nine well-built cabins, 
large lodge, automatic chlorinating 
water system; safe water-front; motor- 
boat and small row-boats; reasonable. 
Box 104, Canadian Camping, 170 Bloor 
Street West, Toronto, Ontario. 


Classified Advertising Rates: 

Five cents a word, minimum 
two dollars. All classified adver¬ 
tising payable in advance. Address 
all correspondence to “Canadian 
Camping”, 170 Bloor Street West, 
Toronto, Ontario. 



In Li‘e/Slier Veils 


Once there was a camper 
Who disliked all kinds of work. 
Whenever she could do so, 

Little jobs she’d gaily shirk. 

The time came round for leaving; 

Trunks and bags must ready be. 
While her cabin mates were packing, 
Very nonchalant was she. 

She left behind her sweater, 

A pair of woolen hose; 

Her flannel slacks and dressing gown, 
And numerous other clothes. 

She wrote for her belongings: 

“You’ll find them on the shore, 

Or maybe near the swimming dock, 
Or on my cabin floor.” 

But all those bits of wool and yarn 
Are now a cosy house 
At a quite deserted camp-site, 

For a grateful mother mouse. 

—M.S.E. 

Child in Art Class: “That’s a cow 
eating grass!” 

Puzzled Art Teacher: “Indeed? 
Where is the grass?” 

Child: “The cow ate it.” 

Teacher: “But where is the cow?” 
Child: “She didn’t stay after she ate 
the grass!” 

A camper there was from a city 
Who met what she thought was a kitty. 
She gave it a pat, 

And said: “Nice little cat!” 

They buried her clothes out of pity! 


26 


Canadian Camping 



















You Van He More Successful 



In the Magazine . . . 

Eight issues every year 
— as much usable 


In Camping! 


The secret lies in always keeping up to date 
with the latest ideas in organized camping. 


Your camp was built on ideas. Its continued 
success depends on new ideas you obtain and 
use in the future. The best way to keep 
abreast of latest camping developments, say 
thousands of successful camping people, is 
by regularly reading the up-to-the-minute, 
authoritative articles which appear each 
month in the magazines serving camps. 

Alert camp directors and their staffs read 
about tried and proved ideas in the latest 
CAMPING MAGAZINE and THE CAMP 
DIRECTOR'S HANDBOOK AND BUYING 
GUIDE. They know the danger of static 
thinking and obsolete ideas. You, too, will 
find these publications a never-ending 
source of new, usable ideas. 


material as in a 350- 
page book! 

In the Handbook . . . 

More than 100 pages 
of charts, tables, 
diagrams; answers to 
hundreds of questions. 


Here's News! Now you can have BOTH the 
CAMPING MAGAZINE and THE CAMP 
DIRECTOR'S HANDBOOK, for the subscrip¬ 
tion price of the magazine alone. Think of 
the help you'll find, of how the added 
knowledge gained will aid you to be more 
successful in camping. Fill in and mail the 
handy coupon NOW, so we can send you 
your first, fact-packed issue right away. 


CAMPING MAGAZINE, 705 Park Avenue, Plainfield, N.J. 

Please enter my subscription as checked below. 

□ One year for $3.25 □ Payment enclosed 

□ Two years for $5.50 □ Please bill me 


Name . 

Street and No. 


CC1250 


City . Zone. Province . 

Use a separate sheet to enter additional subscriptions for your staff 


Toronto, Canada, December, 1950 


27 











WE 
CONSULT . . 
DESIGN . . 
SUPPLY 


everything for CAMPS , Lodges and Summer Hotels 


SPECIAL CONTRACT DIVISION 

TORONTO (Head Office) 


LONDON 

WINNIPEG 


MONTREAL 

REGINA 


HALIFAX 

CALGARY 


EDMONTON 

VANCOUVER 


Ontario orders ask for: Mr. F. A. 
Hardman, Trinity 9111, Local 531, 
Sim pson’s - Toronto 


Others please direct communications 
specifially to your nearest branch 
of the Special Contract Division. 



































