Canadian 

comping 

• LEADERSHIP • 

Here are some thoughts on leadership stated 
by many who have been in or studied the role 
over a number of years. They are passed along, 
to help staff in determining their roles for 
the summer - to suggest topics of discussion 
during staff meetings - to give encouragement 
knowing that the problems we will face at camp 
are not new and have been successfully dealt 
with in the past. They are a kind of "win¬ 
nowed wisdom of leadership". 

"I do the very best I know how - the 
very best I can - and I mean to keep 
doing so until the end. If the end brings 
me out all right, what is said against 
me won't amount to anything. If the end 
brings me out wrong, ten angels swearing 
I was right would make no difference." 

- Abraham Lincoln 

"The true counsellors defend their campers against their own personal influence. 
They inspire self-distrust. They guide their eager eyes from themselves to the 
spirit that inspires them. They will have no disciples." 

- Amos Alcott 

(continued on page 2 ) 




OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 

THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION / L’ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU CANADA 


SUITE 203, 102 EGLINTON AVENUE EAST 
TELEPHONE (416) 488-7345 


1 


TORONTO. ONTARIO M4P1E1 


Vol. 30 No. J, 
June 1978 










LEADERSHIP 


(continued from page l) 


"One person with a belief is equal to a 
force of ninety-nine who have only 
interest." 

Anon. 

"As the sanity of the individual lies 
in the continuity of his memories, 

So the saaiity of the group lies in the 
continuity of its traditions." 

Will and Ariel Durant 

"I saw that it was not the race that 
made men different, but the quality of 
their souls." 

from "A Many Splendoured Thing" 


"Always do right, 

That will gratify some people, 

And astonish the rest." 

Mark Twain 

"The whole art of teaching is only the 
art of awakening the natural curiosity 
of young minds for the purpose of satis¬ 
fying it afterwards." 

Anatole France 

"Genius is one percent inspiration and 
ninety-nine percent perspiration." 

George Bernard Shaw 


"Perseverenee is more prevailing than 
violence 5 and many things which cannot 
be overcome when taken together, yield 
themselves up - when taken little by 
little." 


Plutarch 


"The true test of a civilization is, not 
the census, nor the size of cities, nor 
the crops - no, but the kind of people 
the country turns out." 

Ralph Waldo Emerson 


"There are moments when everything goes 
well: Don’t be frightened. It won't 
last." 

Jules Renard 

"We can only pay our debt to the past by 
the future in debt to us." 

John Buchan 

'We should all be concerned about the 
future because we are going to have to 
spend the rest of our lives there." 




"As I would not be a slave, so I would 
not be a master. This expresses my idea 
of democracy. Whatever differs from this 
to the extent of the difference, is no 
democracy." 

Abraham Lincoln 

"In the little world in which children 
have their existence, whosoever brings 
them up, there is nothing they so easi¬ 
ly notice or so finely feel, as injus¬ 
tice. " 

Charles Dickens 

"I hear many condemn these men because 
they were so few. When were the good 
and the brave ever in a majority?" 

Henry David Thoreau 


Kettering 

"Be gentle and you can be bold; be fru¬ 
gal and you can be liberal; avoid put¬ 
ting yourself before others and you can 
become a leader among men." 

Lao Tzu 

"The final test of a leader is that he 
leaves behind him in others, the convic¬ 
tion and will to carry pn.... The GENIUS 
of a good leader is to leave behind him 
a situation which common sense, WITHOUT 
the grace of genius, can deal with suc¬ 
cessfully. " 

Walter Lippman 


To become a counsellor is not hard - 
To be a counsellor, is." 

Anon. 



o 


2 





Check your food costs early in the 
season. If your costs are high you 
have to cut hack by replacing some 
high food cost items with lower cost 
entrees i.e. Swiss Steak with scal¬ 
loped beef, tomato and macaroni or 
Spanish rice and/or cut back on the 
portion size of expensive items. 


n 


n 


If you have over 120 campers and 
adequate range facilities a two choice 
menu with cafeteria service can save 
you about l$>, i.e. run spaghetti and 
steak or roast beef - and is more 
satisfying to the campers. 


Hot cereal porridge and red river 
cost about 2.40 a serving while 
bulk corn flakes cost more and the 
individual boxes are costlier still. 

Cook-out costs can go either way, 
watch the disposable cutlery, cups 
and plates 

Receiving : Check off all the boxes 
and weigh the meats before you sign 
the delivery sheet. The truck drivers 
tell me the camps are more lax than 
the resorts, so who do you think gets 
short deliveries? The ones who sel¬ 
dom check. 

The vegetables from the green grocery, 
don't accept inferior products just 
to be nice. If he can pass them off 
and get paid for them as well, he's 
doing twice as well. 

If you have a vegetable peeler, check 
the potatoes before peeling and after. 
Three or four minutes longer in the 
peeler saves 15 minutes eyeing but 


there is a significant amount of waste. 

Locks on the walk-in refrigerator door 
can save a lot of extra items that dis¬ 
appear during the night. 

Spot check the number of empty and full 
milk jugs jifst before the milkman comes. 
Then check his delivery to see if it 
balances. 

Watch over production of food, it can 
cost you 10$ extra on your food cost. 
Record amount you produce and how much 
is over or when it ran out. 

Dave Darker 


....AMD MORE TIPS_ 


Are your brooms wearing out? Drill a 
hole and make a loop in the handle so 
that it can hang up rather than stand 
in the corner. 

You can prevent musty odours in suit¬ 
cases by keeping some unwrapped bars 
of soap in them. 

To cope with the familiar film of scum 
or "skin" that forms on the top pf milk 
or cocoa when it boils, don't skim it 
off, rather beat it into the beverage 
with a beater or spoon. In this way 
you will save nutritious milk solids 
and minerals. 

When any kind of wax - candle, crayon, 
paraffin - comes in contact with linens, 
rugs, furniture, wallpaper, etc. it can 
be easily removed by placing a brown pa¬ 
per bag over the spot and applying a hot 
iron (use discretion re heat of iron). 







STORMS AHEAD 


Lightning is the one sure hazard we face every summer. Some counsellors and many 
campers dread it to the core of the heart. Fear of storms keeps most of us under 
cover each time the heavens open, for we know that "but for the Grace of God" a 
strike could hit our own particular area, and often does not too far away. Damage 
to the total of millions of dollars is caused every year by lightning, damage which 
can seldom be prevented or controlled. 

Scores of people are lulled into complacency in believing that lightning never 
strikes twice in the same place. Let's be sensible. It is dangerous to believe in 
such a fallacy. High trees and buildings, even low trees on hilltops have been 
struck over and over again. We know of a tall poplar standing beside a building in 
a certain area which has been struck twice to our knowledge, claiming a victim on 
one occasion. 

Safety measures exist, to be sure, and they should be scrupulously observed by 
directors and staff through to the campers, for there is far too little concern and 
much gay abandon in running outside during the awesome phenomena. 

Campers and staff should remain inside buildings as soon as a storm breaks, and 
remain inside until it has passed over. 

To those outdoors and on land: lie flat on the ground and forget the soaking. 

This is always the safest place. NEVER seek shelter under a tree. Trees are natural 
targets for lightning bolts and have been known to explode trees through heat and 
pressure of the current. Remamber that the main bolt and its streamers can elec¬ 
trocute. 

To those on the water: be overly alert to approaching storms. Don't take chances. 
Head for shore so that you can land quickly if necessary. Water is a na tural con¬ 
ductor of electricity. Get out and get off ....On The Double! 

To those in buildings: go to the lowest part of the building, a basement if 
there is one. Stay away from open doors and windows. Close them. You can open 
them again soon. Storms do not last for a long time. Avoid the telephone, also 
lamps and any electrical equipment, as well as water taps. Stop all dishwashing, 
showers or baths during a storm. Don't stand in water while the storm is on unless 

(continued on page 5 ) 



STORMS AHEAD 


(continued from page 4) 


you are in rubber-soled shoes or rubber boobs. 

Should you be in a car, the camp truck or station wagon when the storm breaks, pull 

over to side of the road and wait it out. but NOT on the top of a hill, or you 

will turn into an excellent target. Often lightning can be so bright that it causes 
temporary blindness and could cause you an accident. A car is the safest place in a 
storm. Its steel acts as a conductor to the wheels thence to the ground which light¬ 
ning always seeks. Again we remind you: Don't park under a tall tree, or a single 
tree of any height. 

What to do in case of electrocution? Remove the victim from the source of accident 
and apply Mouth to Mouth resuscitation immediately. Give first aid treatment for 
electrical shock without interrupting the Mouth to Mouth which should be continued 
whether or not there are signs of life. Keep the victim covered and warm. Send for 
help and a doctor at once and keep calm. 

Perhaps our greatest responsibility to campers is to eliminate fear of storms by 
creating great respect for them. Our emphasis on the above safety measures cannot 
be out to them too strongly. Such measures should be basic rules of any camping pro¬ 
cedure, particularly on out-trips. True, the wild beauty and fascination of storms 
is something to appreciate.... at a safe distance and from a safe vantage point. 

With very young campers, during the day, have a quickly organized and exciting 
indoor game programme on tap. If these your.g ones are awake in the night time, as 
they usually are, get them singing songs.... the louder the better to out-sound the 
storm. They like the excitement of sitting in a circle on the cabin floor. Lead 
them in the noisiest and most active songs or games. Help them appreciate the storm, 
but keep away from the comversational topic of fear. Try to reassure them, though 
you may not like this kind of outdoor contest of the elements yourself. 

From time to time, upsetting fatal accidents have taken place in camping situations. 
Loss of young lives could have been avoided in each case with serious training and 
forethought. At the beginning of the camp year, a discussion of these safety proce¬ 
dures could be one more step toward a happy and safe summer. 





HIKING... my feetj 


If you can solemnly swear 
you've never, ever exclaimed, 

"Jfy feet are killing me", you 
don't need to read this. But, 
if'yoa can' t and you' re a per¬ 
son who likes to hike, perhaps 
you'd better keep on reading. 

And, as your feet are going to 
be your means of transportation, 
it might be well to ponder how 
you can ensure that they will 
serve you well. Here, then, are 
some hints on foot care which we have just come across. 

If your feet have been giving you any persistent discomfort, you should get 
medical advice. If not, you can concentrate on some conditioning that will strengthen 
your foot and ankle muscles and toughen the skin. 

Exercising your feet can be done in odd moments and, as this generally involves 
the toes, slip off your shoes and relax. A good basic exercise is picking up a pen¬ 
cil with the toes; try it 20 times with each foot. Another one - sit in a chair, legs 
straight out; squeeze toes under tightly and bend ankles so that feet point toward 

body as far as possible. Then bend feet away from body, still keeping toes curled 
tightly. Repeat ten times. 

While standing, twist feet so that heels are turned out, toes in: press toes 
down as hard as possible. This arch strengthening exercise is also helpful; stand 
with toes extended over the edge of a thick book or step and bend toes down as far 
as possible. Prectise walking with toes straight ahead and make them grip the floor 
with each pace. Rise slowly on tiptoes, thrusting weight on to toes. 

Skin toughening is a precaution against blisters. Frequent massages with rub¬ 
bing alcohol or salt or epsom salts bathing will help feet resist the abrasive action 
l (continued on page 7 )_ 



o 




n 


n 


n 


HIKING.... my feet! (continued from page 6 ) 

of long distance walking. 

And when you're actually on the hike there are some things you can do for your 
feet, too. Frequent short rests are more beneficial than fewer long stops. Relax 
with the feet propped higher than the body. If possible bathe your feet in a cool, 
clear stream to massage with alcohol and apply any good foot powder, such a "British 
Army Foot Powder". Ease off the boot laces during a halt and at mid-day change to 
a fresh pair of socks. Or air out the socks you have been wearing, turn them inside 
out and switch them to opposite feet. Change socks every day. 

Any *}fiot" or sensitive skin areas ahould be treated with antiseptic ointment 
and protected from further chaffing with adhesive tape or gauze bandages. Blisters 
shoul d not be given any "do it yourself" treatment. Take every precaution to avoid 
having them but if a blister develops do consult the camp doctor immediately. This 
will eliminate the likelihood of any distressing and inconvenient infection. 

Be sure that all your footwear - socks and shoes - are in good condition and 
adequate for the conditions likely to be met on the trail. The sock combination 
found most effective by outdoorsmen is a good-quality fine knit wool and cotton 
sock fitting snugly nest to the skin; over this goes a good quality all eool sock 
coarse knit to provide a cushion. The theory is that the cotton will absorb perspi¬ 
ration and resilient wool will create a pumping action for air circulation. 

Sensible demands from your feet eill make them "last longer and finish stronger 
Toughen up gradually. Take it easy in the beginning days of walking or hiking or 
hitting the trail. But don't loaf all the way. By forcing yourself to the limit in 
easy stages, your speed and endurance will improve and your enjoyment will increase. 

And good hiking to you all! 


The streets are for the 
people. 

Exercise your rights! 
Take a walk. 




Walk a Mm’k.Tmlay. 


Beautify your 
neighbourhood. 

Get out on the street. 
Take a walk. 


paantiflottton^ * 
Walk a hbtrk.Totlay. 


How does it feel to be 
out on the street? 
Find out. Take a walk. 




w nonm, 


fwtno/wnonM 
Walk a btock.TiKlay. 


7 








by April Andrews 

Pioneer Day Camp 


In setting up any organized busing program there 
are many important details and possible arrange¬ 
ments most of which are limited and determined by 
the various economic and administrative stipula¬ 
tions of each particular camp. What we shall re¬ 
fer to now is the common denomination which faces 
us all: We have a bus load of energetic, excited, 
and almost invariably loud campers. 


W H A T D 0 W E 


D 0 WITH THEM ? ? ? 


OBJECTIVES FOR DEVELOPING AN ON THE BUS PROGRAM: 

1. The campers should have fun. Why wait until they get to camp before the fun be¬ 
gins? 

2. An "on the bus" program may serve as excellent public relations. Many parents 
may interpret the situation they see on the bus as an indication and reflection 
of what goes on at camp. 

3. Having the campers occupied in a activity can help maintain a fair level of or¬ 
der and control and may facilitate the maintenance of discipline. 


VARIABLES TO EE DEALT WITH:... 

1. The number of children on the bus. 2. The age range of the children. 3. The 
number of counsellors per bus. 4. Methods of taking attendance. 5. The number 
of stops enroute. 6. Total duration of each trip. 


CONCERNS: 

- Safety! The activities should keep the campers in their seats and the noise 
level controlled. 

- Viability of materials use? Damage to bus property and the potential for any 
materials project to manifest itself as garbage are to be considered. If paper 
and pencil projects are called for, it is wise to transform these to paper and 
crayon tasks. In a moving vehicle the potential for injury from sharp objects 
is multiplied. 

- Instructions to the campers must be brief, easily understood and easily repeated 
to each new boarding group. 

- Games should have some feature of being additive as the number of children will 
increase as you approach camp. Games involving scenery treasure hunts or word 
completions should be scaled so that children boarding near the end of the route 
will have equal opportunity to fulfill the requirements of their task. 

(continued on page 9 ) 




8 




ON THE BUSES (continued from page 8 ) 

SOME PROGRAM IDEAS 

Counsellors may help set the mood for the day, or the bus program by assuming a 
role or character identity. With some imagination he/she can transform the bus 
into some other magic vehicle in the mind of the camper. 

To focus the attention outside of the bus there are various games utilizing license 
plate numbers, street signs and such paper and crayon tasks as Travelling Treasure 
Hunts where the camper completes the letters of a camp word with appropriate items 
in his view 

To reinforce some camp skill the bus trip may provide an extension of some camp 
projects, such as bird or tree identification; examples of how people pollute or 
the breaking of safety rules by the public. Again if you feel comfortable with 
material utilization on the bus, a project for older campers might be to have them 
sketch the route pattern and direction of their bus ride as they travel along. 

It may be advantageous at some time to make each stop the focal point rather than 
the interruption of the activities. A pssibility here may be a paper hat pageant 
where each camper is instructed to make a wild paper hat and wear it the next day. 
Each new creation is examined and applauded as the campers board at each successive 
stop. 

Whole group activities are still perhaps the greatest carriers and include singsongs 
clapping games ar.d follow the leader. 

It should be remembered that the choice to utilize materials on the bus implies that 
there be adequate supervision to avoid incidents of bus damage, paper out the ein- 
dows etc. A bus clean-up squad is a must! 

One possible problem is that a bus program every day of the week my be taxing on 
both campers and counsellors. Often campers utilize the bus trip to say good 
morning and talk. Also, counsellor imagination may not extend to fabulous inova- 
for every new day. The frequency of set bus programs then is another important 
consideration. 

- COMING EVENTS - 


October 26-28, 1978 

C.C.A. Board Meeting 

St. John’s, Newfoundland 

January 24-28, 1979 

C.C.A. Board Meeting 

Banff, Alberta 

February 19-24, 1979 

A.C.A. International Conference Minneapolis, Minn 

March 1-3, 1979 

O.C.A. Annual Conference 

Toronto, Ontario 

May 10-13, 1979 

C.C.A. Annual Meeting 

Nova Scotia 

November 1-3, 1979 

C.C.A. Board Meeting 

Saskatoon, Saskatchewan 


Please send the dates of your meetings and conferences as soon as they are known, 
so that we can expand "Coming Events" in the next issue of "Canadian Camping" 
to include announcements of happenings in all the provincial associations. 


9 





Using nature 
as your 
compass 

by Mark Healy 

For seven days, 17-year-old 
Michael Davis wandered aimlessly 
in the woods on Casper Mountain in 
east central Wyoming trying to find 
his way out. Luckily, a rescue worker 
discovered him, hungry, dehydrated, 
and 25 pounds lighter, 36 miles from 
the original campsite. Michael Davis’ 
nightmare need not have happened 
if he had learned to use nature as 
his guide to find his direction. 

The effect the wind and the sun have 
on the shape of trees can help 
determine direction. Winds cause 
trees to lean in the opposite 
direction from which they blow. 
Because the dominant wind in the 
United States is generally from the 
west, trees usually lean to the 
east. Trees felled by natural causes 
will usually lie in the direction 
opposite the prevailing wind. Wind 
can also retard the development of 
young shoots on the west side of a 
tree, while the shoots on the east side 
will have more abundant foliage. 

The effect of the wind on the loca¬ 
tion of most animals’ homes can also 
be a direction guide. Most animals, 
especially birds and insects, build 
their nests in protected positions away 
from the westward wind. Spiders, for 
instance, cannot lay their webs against 
the wind, but lay them protected 
from it. 

Reading the drifts 

In the winter, the wind has a definite 
effect on snow drifts. The side of the 
drift that is opposite from the wind will 
have a steeper slope than the one on 
the windward side. Thus, with the pre¬ 
vailing wind blowing from the west, 
the steeper slope would be fac¬ 
ing east. 

Just as the wind retards growth 
on the westward side of a tree, sun¬ 
light enhances the development on the 
southern side. In the United States, 
the sun shines entirely on the south 
side of a tree. As a result, the south¬ 
ern branches tend to be more 
horizontal, while the northern branch¬ 
es tend to grow vertically to obtain 
more light. Also, there is a greater 
foliage on the south side of a tree. 

Reprinted from "Camping" the 


Other helpful directional tips 
include the leaning of the trunks and 
tips of trees toward the south because 
they are attracted to the sun. The bark 
of most trees is usually thicker, duller, 
and darker on the north side of most 
trees. 

When using trees to find direction 
choose a tree growing in an exposed 
position. Also, be sure to examine 
more than one tree. Common trees 
found in the United States which can 
be used to find direction are the black 
and white poplars, the oak, beech, 
Corsican pine, and the maple. 

Sun signs 

The effects the sun can have on the 
slopes of mountains can be a useful 
direction finder. The southern slope 
of a mountain receives the most direct 
rays of the sun. This produces temp¬ 
eratures which vary more on the south¬ 
ern slope than on the northern slope. 
Consequently, the southern slope will 
show evidence of faster erosion by 
frost, while the northern slope will be 
smoother and less eroded. 

If the slopes of mountains are snow 
covered, the southern slopes which 
receive the most sunlight will naturally 
melt quicker than those tilted away 
from the sun. Rocks and trees on the 
slopes will leave “melt-shadows” 
where they have protected part of the 
snow from the sun’s rays. These 
“melt-shadows” indicate the compass 
direction north. 

Mountain ridges and valleys can be 
directional tools. In the eastern part 
of the United States, for example, the 


ridges and valleys are grouped in a 
more or less parallel series running in 
northeast-southeast direction. The 
observance of these ridges can help 
establish general orientation of 
direction. 

The assumption that moss and 
lichens grow on the north side of trees 
is a dangerous generalization if other 
American Camping Association’s 

10 


factors are not considered. Moss and 
lichens thrive where they secure the 
most shade, and, even more import¬ 
ant, where moisture is retained the 
longest. Because there is more shade 
and less evaporation on the north an<W 
northeast side cf trees, moss and f* 
lichens generally grow on these sides. 

One practical method used to find a 
desired direction is known as the 
“shadow-tip” method. Because the 
sun rises in the east and sets in the 
west, direction can be found by plant¬ 
ing a straight stake in the ground and 
marking the spot where the top of the 
stake’s shadow touches. After 10 
minutes, mark the top of the stake’s 
shadow again and draw a straight line 
through the two tips. This line desig¬ 
nates the east-west line with west 



being the first shadow point and east 
being the second. By drawing a line 
perpendicular to this line, north and 
south can be determined. 

An accurately set watch can be 
utilized as a compass. Placed the 
watch flat and face up so that the hou/ - ^ 
hand points directly at the sun. South 
will be halfway between the hour hand 
and 12 on the watch dial. North will be 
in the opposite direction with east and 
west at right angles to this line. This 
method works any time the sun 
is visible. 

Star gazing 

At night, the most reliable guide in 
finding direction is by the North Star. 
The North Star is located by spotting 
the Big Dipper. Although the Big 
Dipper changes in relation to the North 
Star, the two stars on the outer edge 
of the Dipper’s cup point directly 
to the North Star. After finding the 
North Star, face it squarely. North will 
be directly ahead, south directly 
behind, east to the right, and west to 
the left. This method gives a fairly 
accurate direction finding because 
the North Star is never more than one 
degree away from true north. 

In using these methods of observing 
and interpreting natural objects, 
remember that these are general 
guides in finding direction. Too much 
reliance should never be placed on any 
one observation since it could be an 
exception to the general rule. Analysis 
of the evidence will provide a reliable 
guide in finding direction in the 
wilderness. □ 

Magazine - June 1978 





CAMPING PUBLICATIONS 


Leadership Training 


CAMP COUNSELLOR'S HANDBOOK * Blackstock and Latimer (Hardcover 
THE CAMP COUNSELLR'S BOOK * Northway and Lowes 
CAMP COUNSELLOR'S MANUAL Ledlie and Holbein 


'.95) Paper 


Camp Management 


A CAMP DIRECTOR TRAINS HIS OWN STAFF Hammett 

CAMP STAFF JOB DESCRIPTIONS American Camping Association 

DIRECTOR'S GUIDE FOR COUNSELLOR TRAINING * Alberta Camping Association 


.75 

.50 

3.00 


Church Camping 


HOW TO BE A CAMP COUNSELLOR 
CAMPING TOGETHER AS CHRISTIANS 


Activities 


WOODCRAFT AND CAMPING Nessmuk 

BASIC RIVER CANOEING McNair 

MALO'S COMPLETE GUIDE TO CANOEING AND CANOE TRIPPING 
A COUNSELLOR'S GUIDE TO CAMP SINGING Tolbitt 
TEACHING RIDING AT SUMMER CAMP Price 
SWIMMING Waterman 
A SMALL BOAT SAILOR'S BIBLE Smith 


Malo 


1.75 
2.95 

2.95 

1.95 
1.95 
1.95 

3.75 


Cooking 


COOKERY FOR KIDS, KAMP N' KICKS * 
OLD FASHIONED DUTCH OVEN COOK BOOK 


Helen Stewart 


Holm 


3.50 

3.95 


Nature Lore 

ACCLIMATIZATION 

ACCLIMATIZING 


Van Matre 
Van Matre 


3.25 

3.95 


Health and Safety 

THE NURSE AND THE HEALTH PROGRAM AT CAMP * Mary Casey B.Sc.N. 


Miscellaneous 

ONCE THERE WAS A CAMPER * Poems by Mary S. Edgar 
All books are paper unless otherwise indicated 


1.75 

* Denotes a Canadian Book 


MAIL TO: C.C.A. PUBLICATIONS 
102 EGLINTON AVE. E. 
SUITE 203 

TORONTO. ONT. M4P 1E1 

ORDER BLANK 

Pre-paid orders only please 

POSTAGE PAID 


QUANTITY 

DESIRED 


TITLE OR DESCRIPTION 


PRICE EACH 


PRINT 


11 




DOCKS 


DOCKS 


PAINTING 


If you want to help prevent slipping on 
docks sprinkle a lttle sand on it after 
you have painted. This will provide a 
"non-skid" surface. 


ALL CAMPERS' CLOTHING AND 
BELONGINGS 

should be marked for easy identification- 
losses are costly. 

CAMP LINEN AND EQUIPMENT, TOO, 
should be marked to avoid confusion 
and loss. 

NAMES OR NUMBERS CAN BE 
SUPPLIED. 

Order CASH'S NAME TAPES from 
department stores and other dealers — 
or direct from 

CASH'S 

CANADA LABELS LIMITED 

BOX 70, STATION S 
MONTREAL, QUEBEC 


STAINING 


This is often preferable to painting as 
paint tends to trap water and increase 
the rate of deterioration. Just stain 
the surface. Most of what you are doing 
is cosmetic anyway. 


NAIIS 


Put nails in on an angle . This usually 
makes for a longer lasting dock and pre^ 
vents a lot of accidents to campers 1 
feet. Check docks for loose nails very 
frequently. 


PRINTED NAME PRICES 

6 doz. $3.20 9 doz. $3.65 

12 doz. $4.50 24 doz. $5.50 

No C.O.D.s. Please mail cheque or 
money order. 

Please include appropriate 
Provincial Sales Tax. 


6lT£-800 NSSI 


13 1 d t> W 0IHV1N0 'OlNOaOl 
•LSV3 3 fl N3 AV N01NI1D3 201 ’£0Z 31inS 

opouDj np sdii/n.) s-.jp uoijntoossn 
uotjDuossD Suidwnj umptnivj 






