





































IN THIS ISSUE 

Another season between summers has begun and it brings a combina¬ 
tion of pleasant camp memories and frustrating urban problems. This 
issue reflects both those conditions admirably. It contains a collection of 
news, photos and program descriptions from a busy summer across the 
country. What it doesn't contain area numberof provincial reports, com¬ 
mittee news items and our Personality Profile. The postal system blocked 
the first two and a confounding phone/dictaphone blocked a transcon¬ 
tinental interview concerning Lome Brown. Watch for these things in 
future issues. 

In the meantime you will find news of the International Camping 
Fellowship which was formed last March in Washington D.C. It rep¬ 
resents a momentous step forward as camping leaders world wide share 
their view and views of the camping movement. Support camping around 
the world and order your own ICF Newsletter. 

Camp Cheboygan is highlighted one more time thanks to an archival 
contribution by a former staff member. New features in this issue include 
our new PARC Notebook and a number of small items in our Please 
Notes ... 

The Bubby Nash Award swings into its second year with a new topic 
and new prizes but not before we pubfr^TT^his year's winner. Nancy 
Bramm is a senior staff member at CampGrey Venture in Ontario and her 
prize winning article is in this issue, f J 

Some environmental programs (in nOtfPofficial languages) arc well 
worth adding to your program file. 

All of the staff at Canadian Camping Magazine hope that you have a 
great fall and a happy holiday season! 

DANS CE NUMERO 

La saison qui s’annonce nous plonge dans deux mondes, celui du camp avec 
ses souvenirs heureux et celui de la tealife urbaine remplie de probtemes et 
de frustrations. 

Ce numero ptesente ttes bien ces deux mondes. II contient une s6rie d’ar- 
ticles, de photos et de descriptions de programmes d’un 6t6 bien rempli au sein 
des camps, & travers le pays. 

Par contre, vous ne pourrez pas trouver les nombreux rapports provinciaux, 
les nouvelles des comites et notre profile de personnafifes. 

Les graves tournantes des services postaux nous ont emp§ch6 de produire 
les deux premiers sujets. Des probtemes fetephoniques ne nous ont pas per- 
mis, la transmission de I’interview avec Lome Brown. Assurez-vous de ne pas 
manquez ces nouvelles. Elies paraftront dans des publications prochaines. 
Entre temps vous pourrez lire les nouvelles de I’Association Internationale du 
Camping, forntees au mois de mars dernier & Washington D.C. Celle-ci 
reptesente un pas de g6ant. Elle permet aux directeurs de camp de par le 
monde, de faire entendre leurs id6es et leurs points de vues au sujet du camping 
et du mouvement en general. Appuyer le mouvement et abonnez-vous a sa let- 
tre de nouvelles. 

Encore une fois le Camp Cheboygan prend la vedette, grace la contribution 
d’un de ces ancien employ^. Dans ce nuntero nous ajoutons le nouveau carnet 
de PARC, ainsi que quelques articles dans la rubrique “Veillez noter". 

Une deuxieme ann6e pour le prix Bubby Nash, ainsi que I’information 
n^cessaire pour votre mise en candidature pour le concours de fan 
prochain. 

L’an dernier, Nancy Bramm un membre senior au camp Gay Venture en 
Ontario, remportait le prix Bubby Nash. Vous pourrez lire son article dans ce 
numero. Vous trouverez aussi quelques programmes sur I’environnement qui je 
suis certain, s’ajouteront A vos dossiers, (dossiers ptepates dans les deux 
langues officielles). 


Nous, de la Revue Canadienne du Camping, vous souhaitons et nous 
espferons que votre automne soit rempli de couleurs et un heureux temps 
des fetes. 



Preparations for swim at Camp Hat iky ah in Oyama, B.C. 


BEHIND THIS ISSUE 

DIRIGEANT CE NUMERO 


Staff 


Personnel 

Editor-in-Chief 

Jack Pearse 

Editeur en chef 

Senior Editors 

Jane McCutcheon 


Regional Editors 

John Jorgenson 

Brenda McFarlane—Eastern 

Editeurs r 6 gionaux 

Office Staff 

Liz Greenway — Central, 

Judy Payne ^ ^ 7 - • 

Personnel du bureau 

Translation 

Barb Jorgenson 

Yvon Ethier 

Traduction 

Printers 

Gerard Bach and 

Cober Printing, Kitchener, Ont. 

Imprimeurs 

Board of Directors 


Conseil D’administration 

Executive Officers 


Les Officiers Executlf 

President 

Janet Adamson, Toronto, Ont. 

Pr 6 sidente 

Past President 

Jocelyn Palm, Toronto, Ont. 

Pr 6 sidente Sortant 

Secretary 

Patti Thom, Toronto, Ont. 

Secretaire .. 

Tf 6 sorier ' 

Treasurer 

Skip Connett, Thornhill, Ont. 

Vice-Pres. (Atlantic) 

Ian Fowler. Moncton. N.B. 

Vice-president 

Vice-Pres. (Pacific) 

Jan James. Ardrossan, Alta. 

Vice*pr 6 sidente 

Vice-Pres. (Prairie) 

Jennifer Perron, Winnipeg, Man. 

Vice-pr 6 sidente 

Vice-Pres. (Quebec) 

Gerard Bachand, Rawdon, Que. 

Vice-president 

Vice-Pres. (Ontario) 

Sally Moore. Toronto, Ont. 

V»ce-pr 6 sidente 

President Emeritus 

F.M. Van Wagner, Point Claire, 

President emerite 

Que. 

Provincial Representatives 

Reptesentants Provinciaux 

Newfoundland 

Judy May 

La Terre Neuve 

Nova Scotia 

Kelley Byrne 

La Nouvelle Ecosse 

New Brunswick 

Dan Soucy 

La Nouveau Brunswick 

Quebec 

Henri Chalifoux 

Le Quebec 

Ontario 

Jane McCutcheon 

L’Ontario 

Manitoba 

Calvin Desmarais 

Le. Manitoba 

Saskatchewan 

Penny Wingert 

Le Saskatchewan 

Alberta 

Bob Sperling 

L’Alberta 

British Columbia 

Jean Bowering 

La Coiombie Britannique 

CCA Committees 


Comit6s ACC 

Archives 

Bruno Morawetr, Peterborough? 

Les Archives 

Professional 

Ontr 

Le D 6 veloppement 

Development 

Dorothy Walter, Toronto, Ont. 

Professional 

National Conferences 


Les Ateliers et les 

and Workshops 

Glenn Barned, Victoria, BC/CB 

Conferences NationaJes 

French Language 

Colette Pouliot-Marier, 

Le Frangais 

Fund Raising 

Quebec City, Quebec 

Jack Pearse, Waterloo, Ont. 

Accumulation des Fonds 

Environment 

Jean Funk. Sherwood Pk. Alta. 

Le Milieu 

PARC Liaison 

Diane Blair. Toronto. Ont. 

Liaison PARC 

Publications 

Nancy Barker, Toronto, Ont. 

Pubtfoiitions 

Public Relations 

Alayne Scanlon. Toronto. Ont. 

Ret^ltioos Publiques 

Magazine 

Camp Tawingo, Huntsville, Ont. 

Rc\L» 

National Conference 

Fred Okada. Toronto, Ont. 

Congres/conferences 

Seminar Task Force 

Dorothy Walter, Toronto, Ont. 

nationales 

Strat 6 gique Mixte 

Immigration 

Barry Lowes. Toronto, Ont. 

L'immigration 

International Liaison 

Jack Pearse. Waterloo, OnL 

Laison Internationales 

National Office 

Bureau 

National 

Canadian Camping Association Association des Camps du Canada 

1806 Avenue Road, Ste. 2 1806 Avenue Road, Ste. 2 

Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 Toronto, 

Ontario M5M 3Z1 

(416) 781-4717 

(416) 781-4717 

Administrative 

Secretary 

Irene Knapp 

Secretaire Administrative 


Association des Camps du Canada 



Canadian Camping Association 

National Office / Siege Sociale 

1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, 

Toronto, Ont. M5M 3Z1 
Phone: (416) 781-4717 


2 







CONTENTS 


PRESIDENT’S MESSAGE 

— Janet Adamson 

CAMPING FROM COAST TO COAST 
INTERNATIONAL CAMPING FELLOWSHIP 
COMMITTEE NOTES 

PARC NOTEBOOK 

— Aniko Varlopatai 

BETWEEN THE COVERS 

— Nancy Barker 

PLEASE NOTE ... 

WHAT’S IN A NAME 
ADVENTURE TRAINING CAMP 11 


PRISONER’S BASE 


12 

BUBBY NASH AWARD 


13 

— Nancy Bramm 


WHAT’S ‘IN’ OUTDOORS 

- 

14 

PROGRAMMES SUR L’EN$ 

IRRONMENT 

15 

BUBBY NASH AWARD 


16 

BLUE LAKE AND ROCKY 

SHORE 

17 

— Dr. Mary Northway 


CAMP CHEBOYGAN 


18 

SKI FOR LIFE 


20 

UNDER OPEN SKIES 


21 

LE SKI POUR LA VIE 


22 


PRESIDENT’S 
MESSAGE 

This autumn I stayed at camp for longer than 
usual, and watched the green of summer turn to the 
vivid, glorious colours of October. As we all do, 1 
reflected on a summer of working with children and 
young people, the happiness, the successes, the posi¬ 
tive feelings that one has at the end of a camp 
season. 

Driving to Toronto, perhaps because my stay at 
camp had been longer than usual, or perhaps 
because the children were replaced by a group of senior citizens who 
also were tremendously rewarding to host, the contrast between 
camp and the real world was dramatic. In Toronto, the elementary 
school teachers were on strike, picketing the schools. One University 
was not operating at full capacity because of a strike. We could not 
mail a letter and know that it would arrive at its destination, another 
strike. The city seemed a place of discord and disagreement. In a two 
hour drive, I had gone from idealism to pessimism. 

Now as the most idealistic of all the times of year approaches. I 
hope that all of us not only revitalize our personal faith but our pro¬ 
fessional faith as well, knowing that indeed our work deals in ideals, 
in building not confronting, in working together not standing apart. 
We can and should know that the institution of camping shines like a 
star in the lives of thousands of children and youth. 


——. 


UN MOT 
DE LA PRESIDENTE 

Cet automne, je suis restye au camp plus tard qu’£ 
I’habituS et j’ai vu la for§t verte s’habiliye de son manteau 
automnal. 

Comme tous, je me suis pris a penser £ I’6t6 qui venait de 
se termin§e. Parmi tant de couleurs, je revoiaient les enfants 
et les jeunes adultes qui sont venus au camps durant I’6t6. 
Quel sentiment de bien-ytre et de succ^s que de les enten¬ 
dre rire & nouveau. 

Sur mon chemin de retour pour Toronto, j’ai ressenti le 
______ grand contraste entre le camp d’yty et la reality de la vie 

urbaine. Ce sentiment venait-il du fait que je suis restye au camp plus long- 
temps que d’habitude, ou peut-ytre parce que les enfants y ont yty remplacS par 
un groupe, tout aussi excitant que les personnes d’un §ge plus mur mais tout 
aussi jeune de coeur. 

A la ville, les professeurs de I’6l6mentaire ytaient en gr§ve. Une des university 
ytait presque totallement parallys^e elle aussi par une gr£ve de ses employes 
de soutiens. On ne pouvait m£me plus poster une lettre sans savoir quand elle 
arriverai £ destination. Encore, et & cause des graves toumantes des services 
postaux, la ville semblait n’ytre plus qu’un endroit de discorde et de 
m^sentente. 

Durant ces deux heures de route, j’etais pass£e du r£ve £ la reality, de 
I’idealisme au pessimisme. 

Puisque nous sommes au temps de I’annye ou il nous es permis de ryver et 
d’espyrer, j’espyre que nous ryaffirmions notre fois en nous-mSme et ainsi que 
notre fois en notre profession, sachant trys bien que notre travail est celui de 
rendre le r£ve accessible £ tant de personnes, de batir et de travailler ensemble. 
Nous savons, ou nous devons de savoir que I’idyologie derriyre restitution du 
camping est celle de I’etoile qui guide et qui brille dans le coeur des jeunes et 
des moins jeunes. Ce sont nos efforts qui permettent £ tous ces coeurs le temps 
et I’endroit de r£ver et d’espyrer pour un monde meilleur. 


Janet Adamson was happy to chair last May's Board meetings. 


(Left to Right) Janet Adamson (President). Patti Thom (Secretary). Jan James 
(Vice-President—Prairie). Skip Connett (Treasurer). Gerard Bachand (Vice- 
President—Quebec). Sally Moore (Vice-President—Ontario). 


3 










CAMPING: 



From Coast To Coast 
D’un Ocean A L’Autre 





CAMPING ASSOCIATlSft OF NOVA SCOTIA 
by KELLY/BRYNE. President 
Well, hi folks! I hops^otlr summer was as terrific as 
ours — all that sun! It seemed to be a bumper crop of 
campers too, and we’re not complaining, no sir. 

Our Section 38 grant was awarded to our association and we set out to 
accomplish all kinds of things in June. Joanne Jefferson was hired and 
did a terrific job on our summer visitation program, putting together our 
new directory, and much more. 

Presently we are gearing up for our fall board meeting and, of course, 
planning for our 1988 C.A.N.S. Spring Conference. 

QUEBEC CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

by HENRI CHALIFOUX 






ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS 
DE LA NOUVELLE-ECOSSE 

.ReppoiTdu Pr6sideQt KELLY BYRNE 

Salut les copains! J’esp6re quevotfe 6t6 fut aussi fantas- 
tique que le n6tre — tout ce soleil! II semble que ce fut une 
grosse moisson de campeurs aussi, mats nous plaignons pas pour autant, 
non monsieur! 

La subvention de la "Section 38” fut attribute a notre association et nous 
envisageons faire toutes sortes de choses en juin. 

Johanne Jefferson fut engag^e et a r6alis6 un magnifique travail pour notre 
programme de visite estival, notre nouvel annuaire, en quoi encore? 

Actuellement nous pr6parons notre reunion d’automne du Conseil d’Ad- 
ministration et, bien sOr, nous planifions le colloque de I’ACNE pour le prin- 
temps 88. 


cvq\ 


President 

The summer was very encouraging for the Associa¬ 
tion in the Province of Quebec. Attendance at our 
camps was excellent, with the no-vacancy sign up throughout the sum¬ 
mer for most of the province’s camps and many had a long waiting list. 
Over eighty (80) camps were visited this past summer by five consultants. 
Out of this number ten (10) were trying to gain provincial recognition and 
become part of the provincial association for the first time. 


Autumn looks as busy and promising as the past season. It’s a busy 
time and a time for renewal. Participation on different committees is 
high. Everyone anxiously awaits the implementation of the plan which is 
divided into three parts. 


a) the orientation part of the plan, having been put forth and accepted 
last May. 

b) the revision of the objectives of specific programs is planned to be 

done next spring. . 

c) the objectives of the finance committee plans to put forth an action 
plan that will allow self-financing for the camps in future years. 

Other plans like the “Civic Insurance Responsibility” will also be 
studied. The Executive committee is closely working with the provincial 
government on the latter objective. This has been the concern of the com¬ 
mittee for sometime now. 


We also plan to try to identify our summer camp clientele. This study 
will be made possible by a grant from combined efforts of two Ministries, 
the Ministry of Natural Resources and Leisure and the Ministry of 
Fisheries and Hunting. This grant was put forth in 1982. 

As you see the Q.C.A. is alive and well in the province of Quebec. 


A 


^ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU QUEBEC 

HENRI CHALIFOUX 
President 

Au Quebec Itete a 6te tr6s encourageant. Notamment, la 
frdquentation des camps de vacances fut excellente. En 
g6n4ral, les camps dtete ont afficlte complet. Plusieurs nrteme avaient en attente 
une longue liste de campeurs. Egalement, les visites d’accr&Jitation furent 
enrichissantes. Les cinq consultants, qui ont parcouru la Province, ont visits, en 
tout, pr6s de quatre-vingts (80) camps, dont, une dizaine sont, fait important & 
signaler, en recherche de leur premiere adhesion comme camp-membre de 
1’A.C.Q. 


Quant & I’automne, il est plein de renouvellement. En effet, les membres actifs 
au sein des Commissions et Comites sont toujours aussi nombreux. Tous 
s’apprGtent avec enthousiasme pour I’amorce de Itelaboration du plan triennal 
de d^veloppement: le plan d’orientation ayant 6t6 accepts en mai, la revision 
des object'rfs sp^cifiques de chaque programme doit §tre terming avant prin- 
temps. Ceux du Comite des finances envisagent, tout particulterement, de met- 
tre de I’avant de nouvelles possibility d’autofinancement pour les ann6es & 
venir. D’autres dossiers, non moins importants, retiendront I’attention. Entre 
autres, celui de I’assurance responsabilite civile. Le Conseil d’administration a 
accepts, en effet, de callaborer 6troitement avec le gouvernement qu^ttecois, 
qui se penche actuellement sur ce probteme devenu complexe pour les direc- 
teurs de camps, depuis quelques ann6es. Puis, celui de I’identification de la 
clientele des camps de vacances qu6ttecois. Cette 6tude, qui sera tealis£e 
gr§ce & une subvention obtenue du ministere des Loisirs, de la Chasseet de la 
P§che (M.L.C.P.), s’inscrit dans le renouvellement des recherches effectu^es en 
1982, auptes des usagers. 

Ainsi, (’Association des camps du Quebec va ptesentement de I’avant. 


4 




















n 



ONTARIO CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

by JANE McCUTCHEON 

President --- ~ 

Ontari-ari-ari-o hopes that everyone across the 
country had a great summer of camping fun and 
fellowship. The summer weather in this province was superb — the kind 
we dream about! And now, happy (and tired!) directors with sunburned 
noses are busy preparing the 1988 dates and rates. It never ends! 

A November Weekend Conference sponsored by the O.C.A. Education 
Committee under the direction of Don Booking of Camp Ponacka will cen¬ 
tre on staff training, with the aid of the C.C.A. Camp Directors 
Curriculum Publication. 

Plans for our Annual Conference for Directors and Senior Staff under 
the capable leadership of Diane Blair of Camp Gay Venture are well under 
way. Dates are January 28-30,1988; our Annual General Meeting and the 
drawing of prizes for the OCA Lottery will be held the first evening of the 
Conference. Several of our friends from the American Camping Associa¬ 
tion are travelling north to provide leadership at this conference — we are 
looking forward to hosting them. 

The OCA Lottery under the direction of Ted Cole of Camp Walden is 
being held in the hopes that it will provide a stronger financial base to 
allow us to expand programs and services. Tickets are available at our 
OCA Office on Avenue Road in Toronto, and out-of-province winners 
are allowed! 

Many people have responded to OCA’s plea for contributions to the 
C.C.A. s Patrons' Fund. Within two weeks of the request, over S2.700.00 
has been received. Thanks to all those who have contributed or plan to 
contribute. This strong show of support is encouraging. 

QUEBEC REGION REPORT 

by GERARPBACmND 
Quebec Region Vice-President 

One successful summerfras gone yet it's already time 
to reflect on and to set priorities for the up and coming 
one. This is my intention as Quebec's V.P. of the CCA to 
put forth my own priorities. 

Being the newboy on the block (CCA) my first priorities are to acquaint 
myself of my new responsibilities. 

My first objective is to make sure that everyone becomes aware of 
Q.C.A.’s strengths and of the richness of the Association and that these be 
easily accessible. This could be accomplished through the Association's 
many conferences, its magazines and other publications. All this tells me 
that the participation in different programs in our national organization 
is very active. 

ATLANTIC REGION REPORT 

by IAN FOWLER 
Atlantic Region Vice-President 

The fall season brings with it a resurgence in the activity levels of the 
provincial camping association in the Atlantic Region. Following a dor¬ 
mant summer as everyone was busy with their own programs, each 
association has held its first fall meeting and plans are well underway for 
the coming year. 

In Newfoundland, President Judy May has her organization working 
hard to develop a stronger administration base with the hopes of reach¬ 
ing out more effectively to their membership through a regular newslet¬ 
ter. The team established by Judy to conduct the association business 
during the coming year is enthusiastic and prepared to continue the 
growth of camping in Newfoundland. Rumour has it that an event may 
be in the works for November. 

The energetic Camping Association of Nova Scotia continues to 
blossom under Kelly Byrne’s leadership. Successful spring workshops 
have encouraged the association to provide further leadership oppor¬ 
tunities, revise C.A.N.S. standards, and hold a planning session in late 
October. 

In New Brunswick efforts are being aimed at providing a sound orien¬ 
tation program for the new Board to be elected at this fall's annual 
meeting. 

Although N.B.C.A. continues to enjoy successful training events, and 
development in the area of camping practices and promotion, many of 
the Association's loyal workers are taking a back seat role with the hopes 
of attracting new faces to the Board. This can only be a positive move with 
fresh faces providing new ideas and renewed enthusiasm. Thanks arc 
certainly due to outgoing president Dan Soucy and secretary Rachelle 
Bordeleau for their efforts during the past two years. 

Finally, efforts continue to establish a Prince Edward Island Camping 
Association. These efforts recently received a new flicker of light which 
may finally lead to some concrete steps being taken. 



j>ar JANE McCUTCHEON 

L’ontari-ari-arToisp^re que vous avez tous en un plaisir fou 
pendant vos camps d’ete. La temperature, dans cette pro¬ 
vince, a ete superbe; une vraie temperature de r£ve! Et mainte- 
nant, heureux et fatigues, les directeurs au nez brute par le soleil, preparent les 
reunions et les activites de ‘88. II n’y a pas de fin. 

Novembre: sous la direction de Don Booking de camp Ponacka et 
parrainee par I’ACO avec I’aide des directeurs des programmes de I’ACC aura 
lieu une joumee d’etude centr6e sur la formation des responsables. Cette 
joumee se tiendra pendant une fin de semaine. 

Les plans pour notre recontre annuelle des directeurs et des cadres 
intermediates, sont en bonne voie de realisation. Les dates; du 28 au 30 
janvier 1988. 

Notre reunion generate annuelle et le tirage des prix de la loterie organisee 
par I’ACO auront lieu le premier soir de la recontre. Plusieurs de nos amis de 
I’association des camps arrtericains viendront participer 6 cette rencontre. 
Nous avons hSte de les accueillir. 

Le tirage de I’ACO sous la direction de Ted Cole du camp Walden est 
organist dans I’espoir de solidifier nos finances qui nous aideront 6 maintenir 
nos programmes et nos services en cours. On peut se procurer des billets au 
bureau de I’ACO de I’avenue Road 6 Toronto. Les residents hors de la province 
sont autoris6s 6 participer. 

Beaucoup ont repondu 6 I’appel de I’ACO en vue de ramaser des fonds pour 
I’ACC. En moins de deux semaines, nous avons recu $2,700.00. Merci 6 tous 
ceux qui ont envoys des dons ou qui se proposent de le faire. Votre aide est 
trds apprectee. 


A 

Mk 


COMPTE RENDU DE LA REGION DU QUEBEC 

by GERARD BACHAND 
Vice-President Quebec // 

q\ Aprds un 6X6 bien rempli, chacun dans son domaine, 

etablit ses priorites pour I’annee qui vien. En tant que Vice- 
President (Quebec) de I’ACC je dois aussi etablir mes 
priorites. 

Etant nouveau dans la fonction, je dois accroitre ma connaissance de I’ACC 
dans toutes ses implications, il va de soi. Je me fixe aussi comme objectif de 
faire en sorte que I’ACQ fasse connaltre ses richesses et les partage d’avan- 
tage. Je crois que I’ouverture actuel (constatee par la Commission des Camps 
d’Expression franqais) permettra un partage des richesses entre les diff6rentes 
regions du Canada, que ce soit par les Conferences Nationales, le Magazine, ou 
les publications. 

Ce qui, pour moi, signifie que participation plus active dans les differents pro¬ 
grammes de notre association nationale. 

COMPTE RENDU DE LA REGION DE L’ATLANTIQUE 

par IAN FOWLER 

Vice-president de la region de I'Atlantique 

L’automne apporte un renouveau de vie dans les activities des associations 
provinciates de I’Atlantique. 

Apres un ete plutdt calme ou chacun etait occupe avec son programme res- 
pectif, chaque association a tenu sa reunion d’automne et les plans sont lances 
pour I’annee en cours. 

A Terre-Neuve, la presidente, Judy May, a une organisation qui travaille 
beaucoup 6 developper une administration de base plus solide; avec I’espoir de 
rejoindre plus efficacement les membres en publiant regulterement un 
bulletin d’information. 

Le groupe forme en juillet pour diriger le travail de I’association pour I’annee 
en cours est enthousiaste et est pret 6 travailler fort pour la croissance des 
camps 6 Terre-Neuve. Une remeur veut que quelque chose se prepare pour 
novembre... 

L’association des camps de la Nouvelle-Ecosse continue son developpe- 
ment sous I’energique direction de Kelly Byme. Le succes des ateliers du prin- 
temps a encourage I’association a fournir d’autres opportunites; revision de 
I’efficacite de I’ACNE et tenir une session de planification a la fin octobre. 

Au Nouveau-Brunswick, les efforts sont faits pour proposer une nouvelle 
orientation au comite qui sera eiu 6 la reunion annuelle cet automne. M§me si 
I’ACNB continue 6 jouir d’un bon programme d’entertainement dans la sphere 
des camps, plusieurs travailleurs loyaux de I’association, pensent prendre un 
r6le plus efface en vue d’attirer de nouvelles figures dans la direction; apportant 
ainsi des idees neuves et un regain d’enthousiasme. Un grand merci au presi¬ 
dent sortant Dan Soucy et 6 la secretaire, Rachelle Bordeleau pour leur bon 
travail accompli depuis deux ans. 

Finalement, des efforts sont faits pour etablir une association des camps 6 
Plle-du-Prince-Edouard. Ces efforts ont requ recemment un lueur d’espoir qui 
finira bien par aboutir 6 quelque chose de concret. 


5 



















NEW BRUNSWICK 

by DAN SOUCY 

President 

Camps throughout New Brunswick enjoyed an 
excellent summer season with the fine weather pro¬ 
viding lor planned programs to go as scheduled. 

Activity in N.B.C.A. has been minimal since our last report, 
however, a successful CounsellorConference in May, and our recen¬ 
tly completed Fall Conference indicate our membership still 
appreciates training events. We are appreciative to Martin Hunt and 
John Jorgenson, both of Ontario, for their leadership at these respec¬ 
tive events. 

A new Board of Directors is being put in place to provide 
leadership to N.B.C.A for the next two years. This group will be meet¬ 
ing in mid November to outline their plans for the next two years. 
This meeting will also review past activity, with the intention of 
developing better communication links within the association and 
of developing a networking system with other provincial 
associations. 


ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU 
NOUVEAU-BRUNSWICK 

par DAN SOUCY^^^jt 

Tous les camps de Nouveau-Bmi\swick ont b6n6fici6 
d’une saison estivale fantastique, dQ ci la magnifique tem¬ 
perature, permittant ainsi la realisation de leurs programmes. 

Les activites de I’ACBN furent plutdt reduites depuis notre dernier rap¬ 
port. Toutefois notre atelier pour les moniteurs en mai, tut un succes, et 
notre recente rencontre d’automne aussi. 

Ces deux evenements indiquent que nos membres apprecient grande- 
ment ces rencontres. Nous sommes reconnaissants envers Martin Hunt 
et John Jorgenson, tous deux de I’Ontario pour leur participation respec¬ 
tive e ces deux evenements. 

Un nouveau conseil d’administration prendra place pour les deux pro- 
chaines ann6es, foumissant ainsi le leadership nScessaire & I’ACNB. Le 
nouveau conseil se r6unira & la mi-novembre pour tracer les grandes 
lignes d’action pour les deux ans & venir. Cette recontre sera aussi I’occa- 
sion de faire la revision des activites pass6es, dans une perspective de 
d^veloppement du r£seau de communication interne et d’un systeme de 
cooperation avec les autres associations provinciales. 




THINK GLOBALLY — ACT LOCALLY 
INTERNATIONAL CAMPING FELLOWSHIP 


At the Second International Camping Congress in Washington, D.C., 
25 delegates from around the world fashioned a 5-point Agreement to 
initiate an International Camping Fellowship. It was a momentous occa¬ 
sion when the Agreement was presented to the Camping Congress by 
Tom Slater, an International delegate from Australia. 


Here is what it said: 

AGREEMENT OF INTERNATIONAL REPRESENTATIVES 

1. To co-ordinate internationally in order to 

a. Exchange news and information 

b. Encourage and facilitate bilateral and multilateral 
exchanges. 

2. To evaluate our direction within two years. 

3. To ask the American Camping Association to produce an Inter¬ 
national newsletter, first copy deadline, June 1st; available by subscrip¬ 
tion with copy supplied by International participants. 

4. To ask American Camping Asociation to facilitate an interaction 
amongst five or six delegates within twelve months to assess direction. 

5. To do these things under the name of the International Camping 
Fellowship. 

Armand Ball, Executive Vice-President of the American Camping 
Asociation, volunteered to edit the first International Camping 
Fellowship Newsletter which came off the A.C.A presses this fall. It con¬ 
tains articles outlining camping programs in Australia, Ghana. India, 
Belgium. Japan, Venezuala, United Kingdom, Europe, Latin America, 
U.S.A and Canada. 

If you would like a COMPLIMENTARY COPY of this first edition of 
the I.C.F. NEWSLETTER, please write: 

ICF / ACA 

5000 STATE ROAD 67N 
MARTINSVILLE, INDIANA 
U.S.A. 46151 

If you wish to SUBSCRIBE, we would be pleased and honoured to 
have you do so, thus assuring continued publication of the I.C.F. New¬ 
sletter as well as keeping you up-to-date on camping news worldwide. The 
next issue is due in January. 

One year's subscription, in Canada, costs $7.00 and may be remitted, 
along with your name and mailing address to: 

ICF / ACA 

5000 STATE ROAD 67N 
MARTINSVILLE, INDIANA 
U.S.A. 46151 



Camping in a 
Fragile World 


INTERNATIONAL 

Camping Fellowship Newsletter 

FALL. 1987 


The International Delegates 
at the Washington Congress 


While everyone was attending workshops, seminars and 
general sessions at the Second International Congress in 
Washington, there was another scries of meetings being held. 
The American Camping Association and the Canadian 
Camping Association invited a representative of each country 
present at the Congress to atxnd a meeting to discuss the future 
international activities. Many of the people present at this 
meeting represented organized camping movements in their 
countries Delegates from USA. Canada. Jamaica. Japan. 
Australia. England. Ghana. Costa Rica. Ecuador. Bermuda. 
Kenya. Israel. Belgium and The Peoples Republic of China, 
met and discussed camping in their countries and their dreams 
of future International activity. The excitement and good 
feelings generated are hard to capture on paper! 

The first meeting was hosted by Janet Adamson (President 
of the Canadian Camping Association) and Dick Chamberlain 
(President of the American Camping Association). Each person 
shared something of the style of camping in their campmg as 
well as their "vision" for what an International Camping 
Associanon/Fdiowship might accomplish 

As the hours went by. individual participants commented 
that they felt an "electricity" in the air There was a comfortable 
sense and excitement in the sharing and in the hopes of what 
might be. A half-dozen persons were asked to be a temporary 
planning group; to take the many suggestions and fashion them 
into a proposal to bring back to die entire gathering. Terry 
Lucas of Venezuela chaired die Planning Group. The next day 
the reassembled group had reached their proposal. 

It was decided at the end of these meetings to produce an 
International newsletter to be distributed to these delegates, 
with each country contributing news, articles and information. 
It was hoped by those present that from this will develop 


AGREEMENT OF 

INTERNATIONAL liEFRESENWlVES 


1. To coordinate internal tonally in order to 

a. Exchange news and information. 

b. Encourage and facilitate bilateral and multilateral 
exchanges. 

2. To evaluate our direction w idun two years. 

3. To ask the American Camping Association to produce 
an International newsletter, first copy deadline. June 
1st; available by subscription with copy supplied by 
International participants. 

4 . To ask American Camping Association to facilitate 
an interaction amongst live or six delegates within 
twelve months to assess direction. 

5. To do these things under the name of the International 
Camping Fellowship. 


International excharges, and closer collaboration on many 
issues. At the end of the Congress a resolution was presented 
by this group commuting the participating delegates to a 
follow-up evaluation within two years, and to further activities. 

Meetings were a small beginning that could lead to very 
worthwhile International collaboration amongst camping or¬ 
ganizations in future years. 

Tom Slater, International delegate from Australia presented 
to Congress the International Agreement at its closing session. 

(adapted from Canadian Camping) 


GREETINGS 

"We must maintain this special chemistry in Washington. 
There is so much energy in this room — it has to be used! 
We cannot extinguish this flame of friendship, this hunger for 
peace, this excitement and commitment" 

These were individual and collective comments from the 
gathering of 25 delegates/pamcipants at the Intematonal 
Camping Congress in Washington, D C . U.S.A., in March of 
1987. 

So — How to bang all of this alive'* Well — you are looking 
at the FIRST STEP—Volume I. Number I of our International 
Newsletter. And you should know that major credit for us 
creauon goes to those who have written articles and to Armand 
Ball (Executive Vice President of ACA) who has edited this 
issue. Thanks to all of you! 

What's next? "Next" happened on July 9-10 at Camp 
Tawmgo in Huntsville. Ontario. Canada Tawmgo is owned 


by Jack Pearse. Past President of the Canadian Campmg 
Association and song leader at the International Congress, who 
has been appointed "International Representative for the 
Canadian Camping Association." Jack. Janet Adamson and 
Dick Chamberlain met to develop next steps for bringing our 
5-point March 12th agreement alive.” Later, on September 
Hth. Jack. Dick and Armand Ball will meet to continue this 
process. 

This is what we see nght now; 

1. Build toward a planning meeting (Item 4) in 1988 that might 
have as content . 

— Location at a camping site that would "model" a style 
of camping in the host country — and provide an 


Camping people around the world thank you for your interest and 
support. 


Page One of the first edition of the newsletter of the International Camping 
Fellowship formed in 1987. The newsletter is published by the American Camp¬ 
ing Association. 


6 




























Committee Notes / Les Notes Des Comites 


FUND RAISING 

by JACK PEARSE 

The need for funds is ongoing in order to continue the work of 
CCA/ACC. In October, we sent letters to three groups requesting 
financial support from them in 1987. The groups are: 1) those who 
made a pledge for 1987; 2) those who made a contribution in 1986: 3) 
those who are listed as potential donors to the Patrons* Fund. 

In September, O.C.A. President Jane McCutcheon sent a plea to 
the O.C.A. Membership to offer financial help to the O.C.A. Mem¬ 
bership to offer financial help to CCA/ACC. The positive response 
has been extremely heartening with contributions, so far, exceeding 
$2,700.00. Our thanks to O.C.A. Dorothy Walter has agreed to 
organize a major fund-raising event with a high-profile speaker/ 
presenter who would attract a large, appreciative audience. It is pro¬ 
posed that this event would take place in March 1988. As plans 
progress, we will keep you posted and up-to-date. 

At the April meeting of the CCA/ACC President's Council in 
Quebec City, it was recommended that fund-raising ought to become 
the responsibility of the Finance Committee. We are working 
towards that eventuality. 


RELEVE DE FONDS 

by JACK PEARSE 

La n<§cessit6 des relevSs de fond est n^cessaire £ toutes organisations. II en 
est de m@me pour I’ACC/CCA. 

En octobre, nous avons envoys des lettres & trois groupes pour solliciter leur 
appuis financier pour I’annee 1987. Ces groupes sont: 

a) ceux qui avaient d6j& promis leur appui pour I’annee 1987. 

b) ceux qui ont en 1986 contribu6s £ I’association. 

c) ceux qui font partis de la liste des donneurs eventuels. 

En septembre, la presidente, Jane McCutcheon faisait une demande 
urgente £ I’A.O.C. pour des fonds afin de venir en aide & I’ACC/CCA. L’Ontario a 
repondu g6n£reusement avec un cheque de 2700$. Nos remerciements & 
I’A.O.C. 

Dorothy Walter s’est engaged a organiser un important releve de fonds. Le 
conferencier invite est une personne connue, certain d’attirer la foule. 

Ce projet aura lieu en mars, 1988. Nous vous tiendront au courant du 
developpement de ce projet. 

A I’assembl6e de I’ACC/CCA, du mois d’avril dernier, tenue £ Quebec, la 
recommendation suivante a ete faite. II a ete recommend^ que les levies de 
fonds soient la responsabilite du comite des finances. Nous travaillons dej£ £ 
I’implatation de cette recommendation. 

LE COMITE DES CAMPS DEPRESSION FRANCAISE 


THE FRENCH LANGUAGE COMMITTEE 

It was with pleasure that I accepted, last May. to stay on as presi¬ 
dent of the FLC, mainly because I am very much interested in the 
Committee's objectives. But first, I would like to point out the hard 
work that has been done by Gerard Bachand. During the last two 
years many projects got under way. A few of which include: 

a) compiling the needs of the camps' registered under the FLC. 
(INCEF 87). 

b) the development of linguistic policies for which the recom¬ 
mendations made to the President's Council were approved. 

These are some of the results of Gerard's talent and dedication. It 
is our intention to proceed with the plans now under way. We hope to 
put forth the necessary plans to promote and to enhance the resour¬ 
ces needed for the good functioning of the camps operating in french 
outside the province of Quebec. We will also try to improve the 
quality of the french language in our communiques. 

A balance sheet of the FLC, for the last year w ill also be published 
in the INCEF 1988. 

We appreciate getting any suggestions from anyone concerned 
with the well-being of the FLC of Canada. 


PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT 


O.C.A Education Committee announces that the cost per person for 
their Fall Weekend includes a copy of the Curriculum for Camp 
Directors Manual. What a splendid idea to support and applaud! 




C’est avec plaisir que fai accepts, £ nouveau, la ptesidence du Comite des 
camps d’expression frangaise, en mai dernier. Les objectifs poursuivis par ce 
Comite m’interessent, tout particulterement. D’abord, je tiens £ souligner le bon 
travail accompli par G6rard Bachand, au cours des deux derni£res ann£es. 
Sous sa responsabilite, plusieurs dossiers ont progress^ sensiblement. Entre 
autres, I’analyse des besoins, qui a 6t6 effectu£e aupr£s des camps inscrits £ 
I’inventaire des camps d’expression frangaise 1987 (INCEF 87), et Itelaboration 
des politiques linguistiques, dont les recommendations faites au Conseil des 
presidents furent acceptees, sont des realisations qui temoignent de I’ardeur 
qu’il a su maintenir au sein du Comite. 

Concernant le plan d’action pour 1987-1988, le Comite entend donner suite 
aux dossiers en cours. Nous tenterons de mettre en place les mecanismes 
necessaires pour assurer des ressources en frangais concernant les difterents 
aspects de la vie d’un camp de vacances aux responsables des camps fran¬ 
cophones, situes a I’exterieur de Quebec, d’une part, et d’autre part, nous con- 
tinuerons £ nous preoccuper de I’anrtelioration du frangais dans les 
communiques aux membres. En outre, dans la publication d’INCEF 1988, nous 
presenterons un bilan des Inventaires des camps d’expression frangaise 
realises depuis les trois dernteres annees. 

Nous apprecierions recevoir des suggestions de toute personne soucieuse 
du fait frangais dans les camps de vacances frangais du Canada. 

Le Comitee des camps d’expression francaise est compose cetter ann£e de: 
Carmelle Deveau, Nouveau-Brunswick; Michel Gratton, Ontario; Eileen 
Mayotte, Saskatchewan; Ken Willis, Quebec. 

LE DEVELOPPEMENT PROFESSIONAL 

Le comite d’education de A.C.O. annonce que les frais d’entree pour chaque 
personne lors de leur “Fall Weekend” inclus, une copie du plan d’etude pour les 
directeurs de camps. Quelle merveilleuse idee! 


The i 
photo 








THE P.A.R.C. NOTEBOOK 

Physical Activity 
Responsibility Centre 

Le centre responsable des 
activites physique 


THE P.A.R.C. NOTEBOOK 


by Aniko Varpalotai 

P.A.R.C. Co-ordinator 

The Physical Activity Responsibility Centre has been a very busy place 
during its first six months of operation! The first project on the P.A.R.C. 
agenda, an assessment of the current status and needs of physical activity 
programs at Canadian camps, has now been completed with the help of 
many C.C.A. members. During the course of preparing the survey I was 
able to visit a variety of camps in Ontario, Manitoba and Alberta (while 
on a personal camping trip in the Western provinces). I was pleased to be 
able to meet with provincial camp leaders and to observe the diversity of 
programs being offered in the camps. Thank you to all those who have 
participated so far in the P.A.R.C. activities. Despite the fact that it was 
quite lengthy, a very high proportion of the questionnaires were returned. 
Look for a summary report of survey results in the next issue of Canadian 
Camping Magazine! 

During my travels many camping people echoed the concerns 
expressed by Ken Willis in the Summer issue of the Magazine. The fear 
that camps will be turned into aerobic exercise clubs or competitive 
sports centres is not without foundation given the image of physical 
activity in the media. As if in answer to these concerns, the Fitness 
Canada mandate for 1988-89 has embraced the concept of holistic fitness 
which “includes the integration of physical, mental, emotional, spiritual 
and social elements." For the time being. Fitness Canada will continue to 
focus on the “promotion and development of well-being through physi¬ 
cal activity" but this is very broadly defined and does not run counter to 
the programs currently being offered in Canadian camps. 

A national P.A.R.C. Advisory Committee has been established, with 
representation from each region and each type of camp, to assist with the 
development of programs and resources. Chaired by Diane Blair, this 
group will meet twice each year to plan P.A.R.C. projects and provide 
feedback from the regions and the organizations they serve. You will be 
introduced to your regional representative through your province's 
newsletter. 

Through the survey, members have expressed a need for resources for 
leadership training, new program ideas, adapted program for special 
populations such as the disabled, and information about related 
organizations. The Publications Catalogue contains a list of resources 
from Fitness Canada, and elsewhere, which would be of value to camp 
leaders. A series of “How-to" pamphlets is being prepared to respond to 
some specific camp needs mentioned in the survey responses. 

I look forward to meeting many more of you at conferences and camp 
visits in the coming year. In the meantime. I will keep in touch through 
the provincial newsletters and hope that you will continue to provide me 
with feedback and ideas for future P.A.R.C. initiatives. 



A group of children with developmental delays participate in a rock climbing 
program at Camp Squamish, B.C. 


par Aniko Varpalotai 

Coordonatrice de le centre responsable des 
activites physique 

Le centre responsable des activites physique a ete ttes occupy pendant les 
six premiers mois de son mandat. Le premier projet au programme de le centre 
responsable des activites physique etait une recherche visant e etablir Itetat de 
la situation actuelle et les besoins futurs concemant les activites physiques des 
camps de Canada. Cette recherche a ete comptetee avec I’aide de plusieurs 
membres de I’ACC. 

Au cours de I’enquSte pteparatoire, tout en faisant un voyage personnel dans 
les provinces de I’ouest, j'ai pu visiter divers camps en Ontario, au Manitoba et 
en Alberta. J’ai ete heureuse de recontrer les responsables provinciaux de 
camps et d’observer la diversity des programmes offerts dans les camps. Merci 
& tous ceux et celles qui ont pris part aux activites du le centre responsable des 
activites physique. Un ttes grand nombre de questionnaires ont ete repus 
malgte le fait qu’ils etaient assez long et fastidieux & remplir. Vous verrez un rap¬ 
port de ces tesultats dans le prochain nuntero du magazine des camps du 
Canada. 

Au cours de mes voyages, plusiers personnes qui s’occupent des camps ont 
fait echo a I’inqutetude exprim6e par Ken Willis dans le magazine de Itete der¬ 
nier. La peur, que les camps soient changes en clubs d’exercises aSrobiques 
ou en centres de competitions sportives, n’est pas sans fondement d’aptes 
I’image de I’activite physique donnee dans les madias. 

En teponse £ ceux qui sont interess£s: le programmes de condition physique 
du Canada pour 1988-89 a ptevu I’idee d’un developpement holistique qui 
comprend un agencement dtetements: physique, mental, emotionnel, spirituel 
et social. Pour le moment, le centre de condition physique Canada va continuer 
de concentrer ses activites sur la promotion et le developpement de la personne 
par I’activite physique. Ceci dans un sens tr&s large qui ne contrecarreront pas 
les programmes actuellement offerts dans les camps du Canada. 

Un comite national, consultif, du le centre responsable des activites physique 
a ete fornrte par un reptesentant de chaque region et de chaque type de camp, 
afin d’aider au developpement des programmes et de trouver des moyens de 
subsistance. Preside par Diane Blair, ce groupe se teunira deux fois fan pour 
planrfier les projets du le centre responsable des activites physique et rapporter 
les reactions des regions et des organizations qu’ils represented. Votre 
reptesentant regional vous sera presente par le bulletin de nouvelles de 
votre province. 

Dans l’enqu£te, les membres ont exprime un besoin d’aide financtere, de for¬ 
mation des chefs, de nouveaux programmes adaptes aux cas speciaux tels les 
handicapes; et de I’information sur les organisations concernees. Le 
cataloogue contenant une liste d’aide de Condition physique Canada et 
d’ailleurs, sera d’une grande valeur pour les chefs de camps. 

Une serie de pamphlets “comment faire” sont en preparation pour repondre e 
certains besoins specifiques des camps. J’ai h§te de recontrer plusieurs d’en- 
tre vous soit aux conferences, soit pendant la visite des camps au cours de 
I’annee. En attendant, je vais rester en contact avec vous par le bulletin de 
nouvelles provinciates et j’espere que vous m’enverrez de vos nouvelles avec 
vos reactions pour de futures initiatives de le centre responsable des 
activites physique. 



A young bird gets a helping hand with lunch. 


8 











ARE YOU AN ACTIVE MEMBER? 

Are you an active member 

the kind that would be missed? 

Or are you just contented 

that your name is on the list? 

Do you ‘tend the meetings 
and mingle with the flock? 

Or do you stay at home 
to criticize and knock? 

Do you leave the work to just a few 
and talk about the clique? 

Or would you ever go to help 
a member who is sick? 

Do you find that you’re the kind 
who likes to just belong? 

If you really care, you’ve time to spare 
to help our camp along. 

So come to meetings often 
help with hand and heart. 

Don't just be a member 
but take an active part. 

Think this over member 

you know right from wrong. 

Are you an active member 
or do you just belong? 


The main hallway in the Mono Cliffs Outdoor Education Centre operated by the 
North York Board of Education and the site of this year's O.C.A. Education 
Committee's Director's Weekend. 


Entre 
Les Lignes 


Between 
The Covers 


Enfin arrive, le livre “Spread a Little Sunshine” (Repend un peu 
de soleil) peut etre command^ & votre librairie. 

Spreads Little Sunshine est une collection de poemes, de chan¬ 
sons, de dictions et de pens§es pour les personnes qui appr^cies 
le plein air. 

Ce livre est le 11 i6me de la publication “Camp Tawingo”. II vous 
aidera & papturer ses moments magiques de vos vies, les amities 
et le quotidien qui torment nos vies. 

On y expoite differents themes. En voici trois: 

1) th6me pour les leaders enthousiasmes 

2) citations de leaders de camp 

3) lettres de gratitude d’anciens employes de camp 

Vous retrouverez aussi quelques chansons bien connues. 

A vous de r£pendre un peu partout un peu de soleil. 


It is finally here! SPREAD A LITTLE SUNSHINE is on our 
bookstore shelves. 


YOU CAN JUDGE THIS BOOK BY ITS COVER 


SPREAD A LITTLE SUNSHINE is a unique collection of 
poems, songs, sayings and happy thoughts for people who enjoy 
the out-of-doors. This 11th book in the Camp Tawingo 
Publications series helps us capture the ‘magic moments’ of the 
feelings, friendships and happy experiences that make up our 
lives. Themes for motivating leaders and quotes from camping 
leaders, along with letters of gratitude from former camp staff are 
just three of the ten chapters that make up this book. Some great, 
original songs included in the book are “Spread a Little Sun¬ 
shine,” “Make a Good Choice,” "The Dancing Eyes of Children” 
and the inspirational “We can Make A Difference.” SPREAD A 
LITTLE SUNSHINE everywhere you go! 





PLEASE NOT] 

YOUNG INVESTOR 

Young investor with 5 years experience as supervisor in summer 
camps interested in investing in a summer camp with intentions of 
long term acquisition. Please contact: 

Alan Leibovitch 

4635 Clanranald, Apt. 215 

Montreal, Quebec H3X 2R8 

A CALL FOR ARTICLES 

The Canadian Camping Magazine is pleased to invite sub¬ 
missions for publication in future issues. Articles are invited on any 
topics related to the field of organized children's camping in Canada. 
Material should be organized such that the article is printed on white 
paper (one side only), double spaced and of a length not exceeding 
2500 words. (10 pages) 

For more information, please contact: 

Editors 

Canadian Camping Magazine 

R.R. # 1 

Huntsville, Ontario POA 1K0 

SUPERVISOR OF CAMPING AND RECREATION 

A qualified, mature individual is required to administer and 
develop seasonal recreational programs at five regional residential 
camps for physically disabled children and young adults. 

Budget preparations and control, program direction and develop¬ 
ment, staff selection and supervision, camp utilization, stimulation 
of community support are some of the principle aspects of this 
position. 

Experience in recreation administration, good interpersonal 
skills, excellent communication skills, written and oral, ability to 
function within a team-structured management model will be 
assets. 

An excellent renumeration package is available. 

Please reply in writing to: 

Mrs. Anne Kane 

Personal Manager 

The Easter Seal Society 

24 Fernand Drive 

Don Mills, Ontario M3C 3N2 

An equal opportunity employer 

iS .. .. 

THIRD INTERNATIONAL 

EARTH EDUCATION CONFERENCE 

May 4-8, 1988, Sandy Lake, Pennsylvania, U.S.A. 

The Institute for Earth Education announces its third International 
Conference on May 4-8,1988 at the McKeever Environmental Learning 
Center in Sandy Lake, Pennsylvania, U.S.A. 

Here are some of the experiences you can select at this important event: 
Preview SUNSHIP III, a new junior high school program. Over four 
years in development this one is already knocking theirsocks off, and you 
can spend an entire day going through the key sessions and activities 
yourself. Receive a firsthand, day-long view EARTHKEEPERS. It's for 
upperelementary students and requires just 2 1/2 days away from school. 
Piloted in the United States, Canada, and Britain this is a magical 
educational experience that captivates learners and leaders alike. Par¬ 
ticipate in our new one-day EARTH EDUCATION WORKSHOP and 
receive an introduction to the Whys, Whats and Ways of Earth Educa¬ 
tion. Sec how you can design and develop your own earth education pro¬ 
gram, or start our EARTH CARETAKERS program requiring only one 
day away from school to initiate. Join a day-long MUIR TREK beginning 
before sunrise and ending after sunset to experience a wild area no one 
really knows. 

Special guests will include: Dave Foreman — head of Earth First —will 
deliver our keynote address. Jim Scott — from the group RADIANCE 
(and formerly with the Paul Winter Consort) will present a special Song 
for the Earth concert. 

Other highlights of this uncommon gathering: Living Lightly — 
applications of environmental understandings and feelings to the affairs 
of everyday life. (Practical ways for you to lessen your impact upon the 
earth and its life.) Program Implementation — find out about the nitty- 
gritty details of our programs in special “implementation sessions'' 
designed to help you better use our materials. (Topics include SUNSHIP 
EARTH, EARTHKEEPERS. EARTH CARETAKERS. EARTH SEC¬ 
RETS Concept Paths, and a special session on building your ow'n earth 
education program to meet the needs of your own setting and situation.) 
Special natural experience — to help you recharge, renew and intensify 
your feelings and understandings for the earth and its life (including 
“Nightwatchers,” “Viewing Party," “Country Ramble" and more.) 

We're sorry, but our conference is open only to members of the institute. 

To receive more information on memberships and conference registra¬ 
tion, write: I-E-E, Box 288, Warrcnville, Illinois 60555 U.S.A. 

LOOKING AHEAD.... 

Camp Directors' Institute — Bolton, Ontario 

Thursday, November 9 - Sunday, November 12, 1989 

WATCH FOR FURTHER DETAILS.... 

WHAT’S IN A NAME? So ,re 

CAMP KAKHAMELA ( ka ku me'la ) 

One of the principals involved in first establishing Camp 
Kakhamela in 1962 was Dr. John Hunt; nationally recognized for 
his work in the field of diabetes. The Camp is located at Lake 
Cowichan on Vancouver Island and serves 70 to 100 campers for 
stays of 10 to 16 days. 

In addition to offering the full range of traditional camp 
activities. Camp staff conduct sessions on medical and dietary 
training related to diabetes. It will be no surprise that the camp is 
operated by the Canadian Diabetes Association but few 'out¬ 
siders' realize that the word ''Hunt” (after Dr. Hunt) translates 
into a local Indian Dialect as, you guessed it, “Kakhamela”. 

Camp KAKHAMELA 

L’un des pionniers du Camp Kakhamela tut le Dr. John Hunt, 
en 1962. 

Le docteur Hunt est un personne reconnue pour son travail de 
recherche sur la diab^te. Le camp est situ6 sur les rives du lac 
Cowichan sur ffle de Vancouver. II desert de 70 a 100 personnes ou 
campeurs pour une dur6e de 10 a 16 jours. 

En plus d’offrir & ses abonn^s tout le sceptrum d’activites qu’un 
camp peut offrir. Le personnel du camp offre aussi des ateliers d’en- 
trainement mSdicaux et dfetStiques relics & la diab&e. 

Ainsi, nul est 6tonn6 que le camp fonctionne sous la direction de 
I’Association Canadienne contre la diab&e. Tr6s peu, cependant, 
savent que le nom “Hunt” vient du dialecte indigene que signifie, vous 
I’avez devin6, “Kakhamela”. 


10 







DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL SERVICES CAMPING PROGRAM 

ADVENTURE TRAINING WEEK 


Loaded down with carabiners, climbing rope, winches, pulleys, and a 
hefty dose of imagination, Jayar Milligan, Dave Comeau, and Shawn 
Fraser arrived at Camp AiteBreagh, located on Whycocomagh Bay in the 
community of Orangedale, to conduct the Second Annual Department of 
Social Services Adventure Training Week. 

Camp AiteBreagh provides the perfect setting for this event which 
instructs counsellors in the art of high ropes course building, rappelling 
and group adventure programming. 

This year the Department sent twenty of theircounsellors and program 
leaders into the capable hands of Dave, Shawn, and Jayar for six days of 
fun filled learning in the wooded and hilly surroundings of Camp 
AiteBreagh. 

The implementation and gradual refinement of the high ropes courses 
situated at each of our three residential camps has made these training 
weeks an essential part of our pre-camp training. 



Early morning at Camp AiteBreagh. Preparation for the rappelling and high 
ropes course. 

The broadening ofourcamps potential and enthusiastic response have 
helped to make the courses a permanent and important part of our pro¬ 
gram. The personal satisfaction and sense of accomplishment resulting 
from the completion of the activities remains a lasting impression on the 
attitudes of returning campers. 

A week-long evaluation helped those attending to assess what they had 
learned and what they would be able to pass on to other counsellors dur¬ 
ing the coming months. 

DAY 1 MONDAY, MARCH 25TH 

Seated in the dining hall, Dave led us through the introductory ses¬ 
sion. He explained that the goal of the adventure activities was to 
increase individual comfort zones, and consequently self-esteem and 
confidence. The more complex activities should be preceded by 
more simple yet challenging ones, such as low ropes courses and 
team pursuits. Simple elements such as catwalks, two-line bridges, 
and magic X’s are easy to set up and have the degree of perceived risk 
that help to create, once completed in a group atmosphere, a greater 
sense of self-esteem. That afternoon we set up a low ropes course and 
experienced the excitement of completing what appeared in some 
cases to be impossible tasks (i.e. Magic X). Many wondered what else 
was in store for the coming days. Next would be the team pursuits. 


DAY 2 TUESDAY, MARCH 26TH 

Papa Smurf has been abducted by the evil Gargamel! The imaginative 
minds of the summer staff have created a team pursuit in which 
deputized Smurfs must canoe to Snark Island, ride the zip line over the 
bottomless pit (frog pond) and climb to the top of Mt. AiteBreagh (tool 
shed) as a team in order to rescue Papa Smurfi 

DAY 3 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 27TH 

This time the opposite team must contend with Pepsi converters as they 
attempt to remain true to their cokeologist way of life while in search of 
the elusive Pepsi secret. Max Headroom leads them through a nitro cross¬ 
ing, nuclear reactor, bear claw, and an electric fence, again as a team 
effort, all in order to gain the Pepsi compound! 

Jayar, Dave and Shawn evaluated the team pursuits and outlined the 
importance of these group activities as warm ups to the rappelling and 
high ropes. 

DAY 4-5 THURSDAY, FRIDAY, MARCH 28TH-29TH 

Time had arrived to begin work on the ropes course. Charged with the 
climbing equipment mentioned earlier, the counsellors trekked through 
the woods towards the high ropes site. It took only a few hours of instruc¬ 
tion and hard work before the ropes course began to take shape. The rest 
of the afternoon was spent polishing up knot skills: the favorite was the 
one handed bowline. 

The following day the course was completed and all counsellors took a 
turn testing their skill on each of the five elements, all at least fifteen feet 
high. Everyone experienced a controlled fall at the element of their choice 
(almost as fun as the course itself)- The leaders stressed safety first and 
paid special attention to the belay system. 

Later in the afternoon the zip line was the centre of attention while the 
counsellors were instructed in the proper set up and maintenance of this 
exciting element. Each participant rode the zip line, reaching speeds of 
up to twenty miles per hour on the three hundred foot ride as they passed 
over the stagnant frog pond and nearby hills. All appeared ready for the 
final day. 

DAY 6 SATURDAY, MARCH 30TH 

Pulling into the abandoned marble quarry at Marble Mountain, the 
forty foot cliff used for the rappelling made the zip line look a little less 
intimidating. However, the confident voices and instruction of the three 
leaders who had put us through so much already, made the task of rap¬ 
pelling down the shear cliff seem infinitely easy ... until we inched our¬ 
selves over the edge! After a little persuasion, everybody had rappelled at 
least once. Again the emphasis placed on safety and belay systems was 
well woven into the afternoon’s events. 




Gordon Beattie (Cokeologist!) chasing “New Generation' Paul March. Diana 
Grcic watches on. 


Gordon Beattie takes a ride on the zip line. 


As we wrapped up the day with the evaluations, we looked back to the 
low ropes tasks and our progression to the rappelling from Marble 
Mountain. Soon we would be back in the city prepared for any obstacle 
(except, maybe, taking a ride with Metro Transit)! All of us felt that sense 
of accomplishment and strong sense of self-esteem that is surely 
magnified tenfold in the heart of the camper. 

Jayar Milligan and Dave Comeau are the Directors of the Atlantic Rock 
Climbing School and have been involved with our camping program for 
six years. Shawn Fraser is a second year Outdoor Recreation Student at 
Acadia University in Wolfville and has been involved with the camping 
program since he completed the Counsellor in Training Program in 
1982. 


11 




PRISONER’S BASE 

by MARTIN HUNT 

I honestly can't remember being taught this game. It was just one of 
those games we always played and it was assumed that everyone had it 
down to an art. At one time we played it between the sidewalks outside the 
old red-brick school house. When we made the move to bussing to a cen¬ 
tral school. Prisoner's Base faded in popularity in the face of the more 
highly organized activities laid on by the modern teaching 
philosophy. 

One day during my junior counsellor year. I was told that I would have 
to lead a game after supper. I suddenly remembered my favorite 
childhood game — how we would play it until we dropped and wait until 
we could play it again. Prisoner's Base was a success that day and, sixteen 
years later, it is still going strong. 

This preamble is just to assure you that it's worth learning this game 
and worth teaching it. There is a tricky rule or two but once your campers 
are onto it there will be no stopping them. 

OBJECT: to capture all but two of the opposing team members 

PLAYERS: 10-15 per side is ideal 

AREA: 4 bases; (see diagram) 

PLAY: Play begins when one player from a team leaves their 

Base Line and ‘baits' an opponent into trying to chase 
and catch them in the Play area. 

A player can only be caught by an opponent who has left their Base 
Line after that player, e.g. Red Team # 1 leaves Base Line. Blue Team # 1 
leaves to chase Red # 1. Red #2 chases Blue # l but is chased by Blue #2. 
Blue # 1 is safe from Red # 1 but not Red #2. (lost yet? At this point in the 
explanation you may get some confused looks — Be patient!). 

Once a player is tagged, neither the player nor player's tagger may be 
caught by any one else until they arc back in play. 

The tagged player is escorted to the tagger's jail after which the tagger 
moves behind their Base Line until they choose to enter play. 

In order to be freed, the tagged player reaches out from the prison (one 
foot must be inside the prison at all times) until a fellow team membercan 
reach them. 

Once a player is freed, neither the player nor the player's rescuer may 
be caught by any one else until they re-enter play from their own Base 
Line. 

The freed player and the rescuer return to their Base Line with a raised 
hand to indicate their temporary immunity. 

A maximum of three prisoners may link hands to ‘chain' out from their 
prison towards their rescuer. Only one prisoner, however, may be freed at 
a time. 

Freeman Bases are useful for two purposes: If a player can reach the 
opposing Freeman Base then they may. with raised hand, escort one 
prisoner from the prison back to their Base Line. If a player can reach the 
opposing Freeman Base, then they may pounce on opposing players as 
they leave their own Base Line. Last Out Rules apply here as well so 
players must be careful not to be tagged by quick footed guards. Note that 
once a player leaves the Freeman Base, they may not return to it unless 
they have been caught and freed or they have returned to their own 
Base Line. 

The game ends when there are only two players left on one side. 

It may take a fewgames before strategies begin to emerge but once they 
do. you will find that it is a game which is as repeatable as any in your pro¬ 
gram file. 

When you're ready for a variation that blends the best of several great 
games, try Eggos. This spin-off variation was created by a friend and 
fellow games enthusiast, Craig Stewart. 

************ 

EGGOS BASE 

by CRAIG STEWART 

In this variation of Prisoner's base and the well known game of Sticks, 
the set-up is only slightly different. Place two more circles (3-4 metres in 
diameter) one behind the mid point of each Base Line. Place two objects 
in each circle (nerfballs, sticks or tame elephants). 

There are two ways to win this game: 1. Capture all four objects and 
place them in your circle. 2. Capture all but two of the opposing 
players. 

PLAY: Play the game Prisoner's Base as usual. 

In addition, players may enter the opposing Object Base (from a posi¬ 
tion of safety behind their own Base Line or from a Freeman Base). 

No player may enter or cross through their own Object Base. 


Any number of opposing players may gather in an Object Base. 

When ready, a player may try to run the object back across their own 
Base Line. 

Once leaving the Object Base, a player may not pass or kick the object 
to another player. 

If the player carrying an object is tagged, the player becomes a prisoner 
and the object is returned to its Object Base. 

We hope that you will enjoy playing these games as much as we have. If 
you have any questions please give us a shout (through this magazine) 
and we are happy to oblige. 

Th...Th...That's all folks. Have fun! 


Shampoo time at Camp Hatikvah in British Columbia. 


12 






















BUBBY NASH AWARD 

For Creative Writing 

To Honour Anne Nashman of Camp Wahanowin 



WHAT’S ‘IN’ OUTDOORS 

ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAMS 


SOLAR FOOD DRYER 

by Michael Kerfoot 

Dry ing food for use during winter has long been an inexpensive and 
nutritious way of providing out-of-season fruits and vegetables for meals 
and snacks. However, drying food in the open air faces the hazards of 
maruading birds, insects and neighbourhood children as well as incle¬ 
ment weather, dew' and dust. Indoor electric dryers solve these problems 
but are expensive both to purchase and to operate. 

The solar food dryer described here is an efficient inexpensive way of 
overcoming these problems. The food is dried using sunshine and 
natural convection. Fresh air enters the vent at the bottom of the collector, 
is heated by the sun. rises up and through the cabinet and exists through 
the top vent, removing the moisture from the food as it goes. For greater 
effectiveness, set the food dryer upon a dark surface when operating. This 
will preheat the air entering the lower vent. See the adjacent drawing. 

Material List Tools 


4x8 sheet 3/8.. plywood 
32 sq. ft. clear fiberglass 
40 lineal ft. of 2 x 2 
42 inches of 1x2 
62 lineal ft. of flashing 
(3/4" x 3/4” right angle metal) 
21 sq. ft. of synthetic fly screen 
tray material (see note below) 
paint and stain 
30 — 3/4” pan head screws 
(Robertson) 

40 — 1 1/2” galvanized nails 
100 1/4” staples 

1 doz. 3” nails 
1 pair 2 1/2” hinges 


hammer 
screwdriver 
drill and drill bits 
tin snips 
staple gun 

mitre box and hack saw 
scissors 
paint brush 
patience 
a cool drink 



These materials are. in most cases, those which we use because of sim¬ 
plicity, availability, durability. Vary' them to meet your needs. So. if you 
wish to use inexpensive polyethylene plastic instead of fiberglass, 1 1/4” 
nails instead of 1 1/2”, or that can full of screws that has been under the 
kitchen sink for seven years, feel free to do so. 

We suggest 3/8” construction grade spruce plywood but 5/16 to 1/2 inch 
will work fine. If the appearance is important, use good one side. 

Polyethelene is cheaper than fiberglass but because it deteriorates 
when exposed to the ultraviolet in sun rays, it will need to be replaced 
each year. 

The flashing is used to make the edges of the dryer weathertight. Most 
home improvement centres sell wall angle sections for suspended 
ceilings that works well as flashing. It also doubles as runner upon which 
to set the trays within the dryer. 


CYCLES 

by Duncan Egar, Dave Paddock , Rick Romman 

”... as plants and animals and decomposers grow and die, they are 
using life's essential chemicals or nutrients and returning them to the 
earth's ‘Nutrient Cycle'.” 

This game seeks to develop an understanding of the flow of nutrients 
between producers, consumers and decomposers. Producers, in the form 
of plants are fed upon by the Consumers or plant eaters. In turn, the Con¬ 
sumers are broken down by the Decomposers and returned to the soil. 
Once in this state the decomposed matter is used by the Producers. Hence 
nutrients flow in an endless cycle driven by the sun’s energy and depend¬ 
ing on the four elements of life (ie. Sunlight. Water. Air and Soil) to con¬ 
tinue in the life cycle. Everything on the earth is divided into one of these 
three groups: producers, consumers, or decomposers and everything on 
this earth depends on these four elements of life. 

This cycle however can be disrupted by several factors. These include 
POLLUTION which could randomly or specifically affect one or all 
elements in the cycle. Secondly, MAN has an affect on this cycle by either 
strengthening or breaking down one or more parts of the cycle. 


The trays can be made using strips of 3/4” wood, lap-jointing the cor¬ 
ners and stapling the synthetic screen on. But, for simplicity, durability 
and cleanliness, prepainted aluminum screen frames seem ideal. It can 
be obtained from most hardware and building supply outlets or perhaps 
a visit to a screen manufacturer/wholesaler would be useful and less 
expensive. Don't forget to buy comers to hold the frames together and 
welt cord to hold the screen in place. 

The screen upon which the fruit will be dried should be synthetic 
(fiberglass). Metal screens cause reactions with the acid in fruits. 

The plywood collector piece should be painted black or a dark colour. 
The exterior protection is left up to your imagination, creativity and 
paint supply. 

Note: full construction details are available by writing to Canadian 
Camping Magazine. 

PLAYING THE GAME 

RECOMMENDED GROUP SIZE minimum 21, maximum 60 

RECOMMENDED AGE OR GRADE 10 years or older, grades 4-13 

EQUIPMENT 2 or 3 sets of coloured bibs.coloured chips (4 per per¬ 

son) yellow, blue, red and white (25% have a ”P” 
printed on it) 

GAME AREA Large wood lot with a varied terrain (2-3 acres) 

GAMES ROLES Equal numbers in three teams — PRODUCERS, 
CONSUMERS and DECOMPOSERSand2to4of: 
HUNTER. LUMBERJACK. BULLDOZER and 
NATURALIST 

GAME RULES 

Participants are divided into 3 equal sized teams. Members from all 
teams randomly draw4 coloured plastic chips. The teams are designated 
as producers (yellow f bibs), consumers (red bibs), and decomposers (blue 
or no bibs). Two to four other players are chosen to take on the role of man 
(another color of bib). 

(continued on page 15 . .) 


\ 


14 




PROGRAMMES SUR L’ENVIRONNEMENT 


Programmes a Employer dans la Nature 

par JEAN FUNK 

LES EXCURSIONS 

Les activity suivantes peuvent 6tre employees par un moniteur en recherche 
d’activites, pendant une excursion d’un jour, un voyage en canot... ou simple- 
ment comme une 6tude de la nature en elle-nteme. Ces activity sont faites 
sp^cialement pour les enfants de 6 A 12 ans. 

UNE RECHERCHE DE 30 SECONDS 

Est-ce que vous recherchez une activity exterieure en hiver, laquelle 
n’engourdira pas les esprits ou ne gdlera pas les doigts? Et bien, en void une! 
Aptes avoir fix6 les limites du terrain, envoyez vos participants individuellement, 
deux par deux, ou en groupes pour trouver (mais ne pas emporter) des exem- 
ples mentionn6s plus bas. Vous avez le choix de leur donner chaque dement 
statement ou une liste de plusieurs choses A trouver en un temps limits. II se 
peut que vous vouliez seulement les dements qui se rattachent A un sujet par¬ 
ticular (comme “changement”, "habitations” ou "communaute”). Les tesultats 
peuvent §tre discutes verbalement ou enregisttes sur des feuilles de travail. 

VOUS A VEZ TRENTE SECONDES POUR DECOUVRIR: 

a) quelque chose de lisse 

b) quelque chose de rugueux 

c) une chose vivante 

d) une chose morte 

e) une source de nourriture 

f) quelque chose de brun 

g) quelque chose qui a un nom que commence par a lettre "R" 

h) quelque chose ayant deux ou trois syllabes dans son nom 

i) un genre d’abri 

j) coleur qui revient le plus souvent 

k) quelque chose en forme de cercle 

l) quelque chose de tres propre 

m) la plus vieille chose 

n) la chose la plus jeune 

o) deux choses semblables 

p) la chose la plus dev6e 

q) quelque chose qui change 

r) quelque chose qui a plus de deux couleurs 

s) quelque chose d’humide 

t) quelque chose qui sent fort 

u) le son le plus perpant que tu puisses entendre 

v) quelque chose que tu n’aimes pas 

w) quelque chose de dur 

x) quelque chose do mou 

y) la chose que tu pteteres. 

UNE CUEILLETTE DE PLANTES 

Une telle cueillette est un outil ptecieux pour attirer I’interd sur des objects 
particuliers que Ton trouve dans la nature. Cette activity a pour but de prendre 
conscience de la diversity des plantes et des changements qui leur 
surviennent. 

MATERIAL +/ 

Des copies d<6 “une Cueillette de Plantes” 

Des sacs en plastique 
Des crayons 
Des loupes 

Facultatif: un ou deux prix pour les 6quipes gagnantes (si possible avoir des 
prix qui se rattachent aux plantes: examples: des fruits, quelque chose 
faite en bois ou do I’artisanat a base de plantes). 

EMPLACEMENT 

Dans un endroit bois6 ou dans un champ. 

ACTIVITIES EXTERIEURES 

1. R^unissez les participants en petites 6quipes. Expliquez les teglements de 
la cueillette en faisant bien attention & ce qui regarde la s^currte somme s’en 
tenir aux limites fix6es, rester avec son 6quipe et retourner au signal convenu 
(ex. au signal du sifflet). 

2. Fixer un temps limite (peuttetre une demi-heure) et laissez-les commencer 
leurs recherches. 

3. A la renttee de la premiere §quipe, faites la liste du materiel apporte et 
assurez-vous que tous les 6tements y sont. Laissez les participants vous aider A 
juger les autres 6quipes A leur enttee. 

4. Quand le temps sera 6coute, faites asseoir toutes les 6quipes en un grad 
cercle afin de partager sur chaque 6l6ment. 

5. Si un 6tement est particuterement interessant encouragez les enfants A 
poser des questions et A s’interroger sur les teponses. 

6. Retirez les Atements afin de les conserver pour d’autres travaux, ou retour- 
nez les A leur environnement naturel. 


AUTRES ACTIVITIES A SUIVRE 

1. Demandez aux participants de sAparer ce qu’ils ont apporte d’aprAs la 
liste suivante: 

— formes ou motifs interessants 

— senteurs interessantes 

— coleurs interessantes 

— interessant au toucfte 

— semences 

— maison d’insectes ou leur nourriture 

— nourriture pour manniteres 

2. Demandez aux groupes de participants de faire des affiches des plus 
varices et-ou des tableaux d’objets collectionnAs. 

3. Faites une Atude plus poussAe sur un ou plusieurs sujets qui ont AtA expli- 
quAs: semence, maison d’insectes ou la nourriture d’animaux sauvages. 

4. Si Ton veut remplacer les activitAs prAcAdentes on pourrait demander aux 


participants de constuire un village ou poAme ou une histoire en employant les 



CYCLES ... continued from page 14 


The object of the game is for a given team to acquire the largest amount of 
plastic life chips representing the four elements of life. These nutrient life 
chips are acquired by tagging team members upon whom your group feeds, (ie 
PRODUCERS FEED UPON DECOMPOSERS, DECOMPOSERS UPON 
CONSUMER AND CONSUMERS UPON PRODUCERS). 

AT NO TIME IS A PLAYER DEEMED DEAD UNTIL THE FINAL 
TALLY IS DONE AT THE END OF THE GAME. Even if a player is void of 
chips, hunting can still take place to continue with life. If such a player is 
caught, the predator has just wasted a hunt and comes away with no nut¬ 
ritional food value. (Relate to Junk food). 

Man will be entered 5 minutes into the game and will become another 
important factor for players to watch for: 

1) the Hunter which stalks the CONSUMERS 

2) a Lumberjack which attacks and kills the PRODUCERS 

3) as a Bulldozer Operator which kills DECOMPOSERS or 

4) as a Naturalist who is trying to keep harmony within the nutrient cycle and 
control the amount of growth and decline in each of the three groups. 

TAGGING REULATIONS 

— a player may not tag the same player twice without first catching another 
player from that team. 

— a player may not taganother during an exchange between two other players. 
After a player has been tagged the player has 30 seconds of "safe time” before 
they can be tagged again. OR if the tagged player reactiviates themselves by 
tagging someone on the other team. 

— the hunted player must give up as quickly as possible when caught and has 
the choice of chip to be given to his predator. 

— if two or more players can be tagged at the same time the predator can 
acquire a chip from each of them. 

— players found outside the game boundaries can be asked to forfeit a chip by 
any other player in the game. 

FOLLOW UP AT GAME AREA 

Have each player sit with their group. Any players with no chips in their 
possession are deemed dead and move to a designated "decomposition or 
graveyard” area. Total groups of Four Coloured Chips (4 elements of life), arc 
tallied and "extras” are put aside. For every “P” the team has on any of their 
chips (sets or extras), one set is deducted from their total. A winning team is 
then declared by having the highest numberof setsofehips. Discussexamples 
of things that they as individuals can do to help prevent pollution, how they 
felt when man was chasing them and if they felt the naturalist was a "good guy 
or bad guy”. 


7^'- BUBBY NASH AWARD 

For Creative Writing 
To Honour Anne Nashman 
of Camp Wahanowin 

CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE and Camp Wahanowin welcome articles of creative writing from campers 
or staff members of Canadian camps. This annual writing contest carries with it $200.00 in prizes and the winning 
articles will be published in future editions of CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE. 

TOPIC: “THE CAMPER LEARNS, THE ENVIRONMENT TEACHES** 7 ^ 

The camp environment is a real educator wjre-theryou consider it on me physical, social or spiritual level. The 
successful writer will develop one aspect of these student/teacherj^lationships in their submission. 

ELIGIBLE WRITERS: Campers and/or staffTrom Canadian Camps. 

LENGTH: Not less than 800 or more than 1000 words. 

DEADLINE FOR COMPLETION OF ARTICLE: May 31. 1988 
PRIZE: 1st — $100.00 

SEND ARTICLES TO: CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION, 

1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, 

Toronto, Ontario 
M3M 3Z1 

PLEASE ENCOURAGE CAMPERS AND STAFF 
IN YOUR CAMP TO PARTICIPATE 


PRIX BUBBY NASH 

Pour I’ecriture creative 
en Phonneur d’Anne Nashman 
du Camp Wahanowin 


La revue Canadian Camping et le Camp Wahanowin ont besoin d’articles en Venture creative de campeurs ou de personnel 
de camps canadiens. 


Ce concours annuel en Venture creative inclus $200.00 en priz et les textes choisis seront publics dans les Editions k venir 
de la revue Canadian Camping. ___ ^ 

T ? \ 

SUJET: Le milieuHD'camp'd’6f(§liIirie7elation de professeur/btudiant, tant par son aspect physique 
(naturel), social ou spirituel. 

Le concourant devra developper un des aspects, ci-haut mentionnb. 

OUVERT: & tous les campeurs et personnel de Camps Canadiens 
LONGUEUR: pas moins de 800 mots pas plus de 1000 mots 
DATE LIMITE: 31 mai 1988 
PRIX: 1 er prix: $100.00 

ENVOYEZ VOS ARTICLES A: 

CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, 

Toronto, Ontario 
M3M 3Z1 


S.V.P. encourez vos campeurs et votre personnel a participer. 


16 









Melanie Kenig (LIT Counsellor) and Brian Chelin (Assistant Director) are 
Characters in a Murder Mystery — Only at Camp Hatikvah you say? 


BLUE LAKE AND ROCKY SHORE 


OCA Banquet Speech 

by Mary Northway, 1968 


Memory is a strange process. Psychologists have studied forgetting a 
great deal, but very few have investigated remembering. Yet most of us are 
more interested in what we remember than in what we forget (unless it is 
our door key, or the name of a well-known acquaintance). 

However, those psychologists w hose interest has been in remembering, 
such as Sir Frederick Bartlett in Cambridge in the thirties or 1. A. Paul in 
New York, currently, have come up with some intriguing discoveries. 
They say that from the many events going on in the external or internal 
environment at any one moment, we select from among the millions of 
possibilities those which our perceptual equipment is capable of receiv¬ 
ing and from these, those which have most meaning for or bring most 
satisfaction to us. In doing so, we stamp them with our own qualities. 
They become our experience. Indeed. “We see things not as they are. but 
as we are”. 

As time passes, our past experience becomes transformed and mod¬ 
ified, for remembering is in essence a creative process, by which we con¬ 
tinually recreate past experiences into novel forms that have importance 
for us in the present here and now. 

For whatever may be said contrariwise, we live only in the now. never in 
the past; but our now has a time dimension. It includes our recreation of 
the past and it projects far into the future. It is this wide time dimension of 
our consciousness of the moment that, I believe, is our most distinctive 
human quality and one which separates us from the other species as 
much as our upright position, our clever hand or our grossly enlarged 
brain. But let me re-emphasize it is the now that determines what we 
remember of the past and what we imagine of the future. It is not what 
really happened that matters; it is what we have reconstructed out of it 
and what we make out of it — what is useful, significant, important or 
what-have-you to us now. 

“SO WHEN WE RETURN ONCE MORE 
TO BLUE LAKE AND ROCKY SHORE”, 

our return is not to the blue lake and rocky shore as they were; they are to 
what we have created from them as the years moved forward and we blen¬ 
ded the experiences of camp days with later happenings and as we have 
interpreted them as we, at this moment, go forward into the future. 

I suppose the most important return to our “blue lake and rocky shore*' 
occurs when we perceive something in our present — a sight, taste, sound, 
smell, touch, that is like those we experienced in our camping days. The 
smell of an outdoor fire, the sound of a loon as it passes through our city 
valley, the white throat, a bit of music which we set as a camp song — these 
immediately bring “blue lake and rocky shore" into our memory. 

And so, each of us experiences tastes, smells, sights, sounds that bring 
with them our... “blue lakes and rocky shores". In these situations, the 
past serves to enrich perceptions of the present. A loon heard only once 
would indeed be a meaningless experience. But “we return again 
wherever campfires bum again". Our present campfire is always aglow 
with all the campfires we have known in the past. 

I remember very little of the first year I went to camp. I do recall getting 
a badge or medal for accomplishing the great achievement of swimming 
fifty yards, or was it feet; I do recall being stung by a wasp, howling blue 
murder and receiving great attention. But most vividly, I recall being in a 
play — or was it a pageant or ballet — all about gypsies. We little girls were 
in the chorus, in the Greek sense of the term. What the plot was. I have no 
recollection — perhaps it was like the present drama, no beginning and 
no end — you just come into the middle. Anyhow, we little girls had to 
learn a dance and a song. I only know I recall it as my most thrilling and 
successful of performances. 


Young Voyageurs are almost ready to leave the dock at Camp Ponacka in 
Ontario. 

Another tale I like to tell my friends is about my first year at Glen Ber¬ 
nard. This was the first year of the camp — and everything was new to all 
of us and everything was an adventure. The camp was divided across age 
groups into Indian Tribes. Although I had never seen an Indian and far 
less knew anything of our historical dealings or misdealings with them, 
being an Indian seemed a fine idea to me. We vied with each other in 
sports and games and in the challenges at the Council Ring and went out 
on shore suppers or projects, such as making much needed trails together. 
There were three tribes, the Micmacs, the Tuscarora and the 
Kashigabagamogs. We elected the big girls to be tribal chief and scroll 
reader and to other important positions. But I, a little girl, was elected run¬ 
ner. What an honour to be formally titled “Runner of the 
Kashigabagamogs!" The duties consisted in the main in taking messages 
and doing little errands for the older girls. It was here I learned, for the 
first time, that by being given a title one accepts as a privilege duties which 
one would otherwise do only under pressure, if at all. 

I have seen more, learned at camp with enjoyment zest and effective¬ 
ness than is learned in a year at school. 

Now personally I do not want to see more of the school in the camp, but 
I would like to see much more of camp in our schools. 

Camps are never compulsory so they must be captivating. I do believe 
that camping has a great deal worth saying to schools. And, I believe some 
schools are beginning to listen. I do not consider camping merely a 
specialized kind of education. Good camps have a philosophy of educa¬ 
tion and a psychology of learning that should be the basis of all education 
in our schools, and universities. 

To our blue lake and rocky shore, we return once more in recollection 
and reminiscence. And we can use our experience from our lives at camp 
to serve as guidelines for matters that concern us in the camping associa¬ 
tion and in the wider world. 

So now I will stop and let you be free as soon as possible to return once 
more to your Blue Lake and Rocky Shore. 


17 








JACKPOT! 


Working in archiving must be a little like working in archeol¬ 
ogy. There are hours of research, days of no response and, at last, 
a treasure of priceless pieces of the Canadian Camping fabric. 
Our article on fire in last winter's issue generated just such a 
goldmine of material which might otherwise have been lost. 
These bits of memorabilia have come from one person who 
worked on staff at one small camp in Ontario for two years in 
1936 and 1937. They represent the tip of the tip of the tip of an 
iceberg. We must recognize that today's snapshots, camp 
brochures, crests, cards and programs are tomorrow's priceless 
archives. Every camp should be actively archiving. Every camp¬ 
ing association should be actively archiving as well. Without 
gathering our histories together, in a safe organized way we are all 
losers. 

The Canadian Camping Magazine is pleased to receive 

\ memorabilia from various sources and will publish suitable 
material before forwarding it to the Canadian Camping 
Association Archives at Trent University or to the approp¬ 
riate provincial camping association archives in the camp's 
home province. 

So dust off those old photographs and make an 
\ archivist's day! 


CUPP CAMP cttS *lv 


18 


















* 

IMPERIAL LIFE 



THE CANADIAN SKI COUNCIL IS BRINGING 
“SKI FOR LIFE” TO YOU 


WHAT IS IT? “Ski For Life” is a theme for the Canadian Ski Councirs 1987/88 promotional campaign. It is offered in con¬ 
junction with National Ski Week to the ski industry and the non ski industiy. 

“Ski For Life” is a participation program encouraging everyone to be part of a social and recreational ski 
extravaganza._ 


HOW DO I GET INVOLVED? Anyone can host a “Ski For Life” event anywhere. 

“Ski For Life” is a pre-packaged program. 

We supply you with - event ideas 

- step by step instructions 

- supporting promotions 

However there is room for you to incorporate your own ideas and elements. You can adopt it to an existing program. 
Everyone who participates has a chance to win some fabulous national prizes, awarded by the luck of the draw from the par- 
ticipant pool._ 


PROMOTIONS AND PAYOFFS 

The Canadian Ski Council will be promoting “Ski For Life” on a local/provincial and national level through posters, public 
service announcements, a national media campaign and through the Crazy Canucks acting as spokesmen. 

Imperial Life Assurance Co.. Ski For Life’s corporate sponsor, will be supporting National Ski Week at both the local and 
national levels. 


Everyone wins with “Ski For Life”.- IT’S FUN 

- IT’S HIGH PROFILE 

- IT'S FOR EVERYONE TO ENJOY 

♦♦♦NATIONAL SKI WEEK: JANUARY 23-31, 1988 w 


Ski For Life sounds great and I would like to be a part of it! 
Please send me a free SKI FOR LIFE information booklet 
with all the “How-to” details. 

Name ___ 

Address ___ 

City _ Province _ 

Postal Code_Telephone __ 

Company/Association_ 

Position __ 

*1 AM ALSO INTERESTED IN HAVING A “SKI FOR LIFE" SPOKES¬ 
PERSON VISIT OUR ORGANIZATION IN THE FALL Yes □ No □ 


Ski For Life 

CANADIAN SKI COUNCIL 
1220 Sheppard Avenue East 
Willowdale, Ontario 
Canada, M2K 2X1 


20 







UNDER OPEN SKIES 


A CIEL OUVERT 


THE TREE OF GREAT PEACE 

Until about seven hundred years ago the five nations lived on 
adjoining lands, each nation living separately. They were con¬ 
tinually warring nation against nation. 

A man by the name of Dcganaweda came among them and pre¬ 
ached the power of peace. The man had an impediment in his speech 
and chose for his spokesman a younger man whose name was 
Hiawatha. 

Through the efforts of these two men the Five Nations Con¬ 
federacy was formed later to be called the Iroquois Confederacy. 

This is also the first league of nations that there is record of. The 
league consisted of Mohawk, Cayuga, Seneca, Oneida, and 
Onondaga. 

The Tuscarora joined the league during the early part of the 17th 
century, making it the Six Nation Confederacy. 

The eagle flying above the tree symbolized the Great Spirit. He 
watches and protects the confederacy. 

The pine tree is green twelve months of the year and gives man pro¬ 
tection. This symbolizes the Confederacy. 

The white roots at the bottom of the tree reach out in all directions. 
If anyone who is in trouble follows these white roots of peace, which 
lead them to the Tree of Great Peace, he is to receive help and 
comfort. 

The tomahawk at the bottom of the tree is the weapon the Five 
Nations used in the wars previous to the forming of the Great Law or 
League of Peace. 

The tree was uprooted, the tomahawk was placed in the cavity 
made by the uprooting of the tree to be carried away by the 
underground river that flows beneath the tree as a guarantee that the 
Six Nations will never war against nation again. To this day the 
league still stands. 

Negwnta-la-ay-ha 
Red Dog 

*******:*: 

We would love your conmbutibp to our Under Open Skies regular 
column. Send your favonte peom t^day! 


FIRE 

Each colour or tint that a tree has known 
In the heart of a wood-fire glows; 

Look into the flames and you will see 
Blue dusk and the dawn's pale rose. 

The golden light of the noonday sun. 

The purple of darkening night. 

The crimson glow of the sunset. 

The sheen of the soft moonlight. 

Fire brings forth from the heart of a tree 
Beauty stored there in memory. 

from Wood-Fire and Candle-Light by Mary S. Edgar 

THE LIFE YOU’VE LIVED TODAY 

Can you say tonight in parting with the day that's slipping past. 
That you helped a single person of the many you have passed? 

Is a single life rejoicing over what you did or said? 

Does one whose hopes were fading, now with courage look 
ahead? 

Did youwaste the day or lose it, was it well or poorly spent? 

Did you leave a trail of kindness, or a scar of discontent? 

As you close your eyes in slumber, do you think that God would 
say, 

“You have made the world much better for the life you've lived 
today?" 

QUOTES FOR THE WORKING CAMP DIRECTOR!! 

Those proud of keeping an orderly desk will never know the thrill of 
finding something you thought you had irretrievably lost. 

Sydney J. Harris 

No matter how it turns out there’s always some guy who knew it 
would. 

The future is that time when you’ll wish you’d done what you aren't 
doing now. 

When all else fails, follow directions! 

I write down everything I want to remember. That way, instead of 
spending a lot of time trying to remember what it is I wrote down, I 
spend the time looking for the paper I wrote it down on. 

Learn from the mistakes of others — you can’t live long enough to 
make them all yourself. 

When someone says, “that’s a good question.” you can be sure it's a 
lot better than the answer you're going to get. 

Quoted in Chicago Tribune 

Exhiliration is that feeling you get just after a great idea hits you, and 
before you realize what's wrong with it. 

There are moments when everything goes well; don’t be frightened. It 
won't last. 

Jules Renard 


Cabin Mates pause for a photo at Camp Panacka (Ont.) 


21 












1 Ttt tnnrun rf 


41 

LIMPtRlALE 


fe $kjpoulcLdMe. 




LE CONSEIL CANADIEN DU SKI VOUS OFFRE 
“LE SKI POUR LA VIE” 


DE QUOI S’AGIT-IL?“Le Ski pourla Vie” estle theme choisi parle Conseii Canadien du Ski pour sa campagne de 1987/ 
88 qui eat presentee de pair avec la Semaine nationale du Ski a I’industrie du ski et aux industries connexes. 

4< Le Ski pour la Vie” est un programme mis sur pied pour encourager tous et chacun a participer a une extravagance rec¬ 
reative et sociale. 


COMMENT PUIS-JE EN FAIRE PARTIE? Tout le monde peut presenter un evenement de “Ski pour la Vie” peu 
importe 1’endroit. 

“Le Ski pour la Vie” est un programme prepare d’avance. 

Nous vous offrons - les idees 

- les instructions detaillees 

- le materiel promotionnel 

qui peuvent etre facilement adaptes a vos idees et a vos raoyens d’expression. Vous pouvez Tinserer au sein d’un pro¬ 
gramme deja en vigueur. 

Chaque participant a la chance de gagner de fabuleux prix nation aux, offerts par tirage au hasard en provenance d'un 
fond commun._ 


PROMOTIONS ETAVANTAGES -- 

Le Conseii Canadien du Ski s’occupe de la promotion du “Ski pour la Vie” a l’echelle locale, provinciale et nationale par le 
biais d afnches, d’annonces d’interet communautaire, d’une campagne nationale aupres des medias et par l’entremise des 
Casse-cou canadiens a titre de porte-parole. 

L Imperiale Vie est le commanditaire attitre du Ski pour la Vie et parrainera la Semaine Nationale du Ski aux niveaux local 
et national. 


Tout le monde y gagne avec “Le Ski pour la Vie” - BEAUCOUP DE PLAISIR 

- HAUTE RECONNAISSANCE 
• POUR TOUT LE MONDE 

***LA SEMAINE NATIONALE DU SKI: DU 23 AU 31 JANVIER 1988*** 


Le Ski pour la vie - c’est formidable! J’aimerais y prendre 
part. Veuillez me faire parvenir le livret gratuit le Ski pour 
la vie rempli de renseignements pratiques. 

Nom____ 


Adresse. 


ViUe.---Province 

Code postal --- Telephone _ 

Enterprise ou association_ 

Poste_ 


♦J’AIMERAIS QU’UN PORTE-PAROLE DE “SKI POUR LA VIE’ 
VIENNE VISITER NOTRE ORGANISATION A’ L’AUTOMNE 
oui □ non □ 


Le Ski pour la vie 
CONSEIL CANADIEN DU SKI 
1220 Sheppard Avenue East 
Willowdale, Ontario 
Canada, M2K 2X1 




Look what we are looking for — a new look in 
the CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE! 




& PICTURES 


piCTUR®^^ Pj CTv 




Please send along the pick of your pix from the camping season. Camp Ponacka in 
Ontario did! We love their pictures and so will you! , 




SITES & FACILITIES 
CONFERENCES & WORKSHOPS 
MOOD & NATURE 
ACTIVITIES & PROGRAM 
CAMPERS & STAFF 

We are ready to use black and white prints and good con¬ 
trast colour prints, slides or negatives. 

SEND PICTURES TO: 

CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
R.R. # 1 

HUNTSVILLE, ONTARIO 
POA 1K0 


23 








POSTMASTER / MAIL CARRIER 

If undelivered after five days, please return copies to the editorial offices: 
CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
Canadian Camping Association 
1806 Avenue Rd.. Suite 2 
Toronto. Ontario M5M 3Z1 


MAITRE DE POSTES / FACTEUR 

Si non-livr6 aprAs 5 jours S.V.P. retoumez les copies aux bureaux des Aditoriaux: 
CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
Canadian Camping Association 
1806 Avenue Rd., Suite 2, 

Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 


British Columbia Camping Association 

1200 Hornby St. 

Vancouver, B.C. V6Z 2E2 
Phone: (604) 687-3333 


Alberta Camping Association 

c/o Y.M.C.A., 332 6th Ave. S.W., 

Calgary, Alberta T2P 0R5 
Phone: (403) 269-6156 

Saskatchewan Camping Association 

c/o Saskatoon Y.M.C.A. 

25-22 St. East 

Saskatoon, Sask. S7K 0C7 

Phone: (306) 652-7515 ext. SCA 


Manitoba Camping Association 

1495 St. Matthews Ave. 

Winnipeg, Manitoba 
R3G 3L3 

Phone: (204)985-4166 

Ontario Camping Association 

1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
Phone: (416) 781-0525 

Association des Camps du Quebec 

4545 Pierre de Coubertin 
Montreal, Quebec H1V3R2 
HIV 3R2 

Phone: (514) 252-3113 


New Brunswick Camping Association 

P.O. Box 263 

Moncton, New Brunswick E1C 8K9 
Phone: (506) 857-0203 


Nova Scotia Camping Association 

Box 3243 S. 

Halifax, Nova Scotia B3J 3H5 
Phone: (902) 424-4329 

Newfoundland and Labrador 
Camping Association 

Box 261 

Comerbrook, Nfld. A2H 6C9 



OFFICIAL PUBLICATION 
OF THE CANADIAN 
CAMPING ASSOCIATION 


L'ASSOCIATION DES 
CAMPS DU CANADA - 
PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 


VOL. 39, NO. 2 
FALL 1987 I 
ISSN 0834325 j 


SUBSCRIPTION INFORMATION 


Canadian Camping Magazine is the official publication of the Canadian Camping Association. 
Editorial offices of the Magazine are located at R.R. # 1, Huntsville, Ontario, POA 1KO. 

Membership in the C.C.A.. as a result of membership in a provincial camping association, 
includes a subscription to the Magazine. Non member subscription is SlO.OO/ycar. Single issue 
price is $3.00. Make cheques payable to the Canadian Camping Association. Send subscriptions, 
submissions, or address changes to the editorial staff. 

Canadian Camping Magazine is published four times yearly. Deadlines for submissions are 
October 1, December 1, February 15 and May 1. Material in Canadian Camping Magazine may 
not be reproduced in any form without the expressed written permission of the editor. Copyright 
1986 Canadian Camping Association. 

LES INFORMATIONS DE LA SOUSCRIPTION 

Canadian Camping Magazine est la publication officielle de (’Association des Camps 
du Canada. Les bureaux de la redaction se trouvent A R.R. ft 1, Huntsville, Ontario POA 
1K0. 



L'adhAslon A 1’A.C.C., resultant de I’adhAsion A une association provinciate, inclue une souscrip- 
tion A la revue. La souscription pour ceux qui ne sont pas les membres coGte SI 0.00 par an. La fiv- 
raison coGte $3.00. Faites les cheques A I’ordre de "Canadian Camping Association". Envoyez les 
souseriptions, les sou missions ou les changements d'adresse aux bureaux de la redaction. 

Canadian Camping Magazine est publte quatre fois par an. Les dates limites pour les 
soumissions sont le 1 er October, le 1 ^ decembre, le 15^°^ tevrier et le 1 er mai. Les articles dans 
“Canadian Camping Magazine" ne peuvent Atre reproduits sans autorisation de I’Aditeur. 
Copyright 1986 Canadian Camping Association. 


If you would like to receive a complete 
English translation of any article in 
Canadian Camping Magazine, send a 
stamped self addressed envelope with 
your request to Canadian Camping 
Magazine, R.R. #1, Huntsville, Ontario 
POA 1K0. 


Si vous voulez recevoir une traduction 
comptete en fran^ais d’un article dans 
Canadian Camping Magazine, envoyez 
une enveioppe timbrAe pour la rAponse 
avec votre demande A: Canadian Camp¬ 
ing Magazine, R.R. #1, Huntsville, Ontario 
POA 1K0. 


Cover 

Some campers get a chance for a close (but not too 
close!) look at a snapping turtle. The photo is from the 
Canadian Camping Magazine photo collection. 

La page couverture 

La page couverture nous montre un groupe d’enfant s’in- 
t6ressant de pr6s (de trop pr&s peut-etre) & un tortue. (photo 
collection de I’ACC). 


24 















