
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION L'ASSOCIATION DES 

OF THE CANADIAN CAMPS DU CANADA - 

CAMPING ASSOCIATION PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 





















FROM THE 
PRESIDENT 

Jay Haddad, we salute you! For four and a half years Jay Haddad edited this 
magazine in a volunteer capacity with dedication, integrity and creativity 
The calibre of writing, the thought provoking approach to camping issues, 
and the quality of the magazine itself served the Canadian Camping 
Association well. 

Few of us realize the work that goes into an issue of this magazine - 
writing, editing, chasing articles, proof reading and pasting up. Jay always 
worked quietly behind the scenes to produce a truly impressive magazine. 

Jay is now retiring as editor, and we thank him for his outstanding 
contribution to Canadian Camping. 

Janet Adamson 


UN MOT DE 
LA PRESIDENTE 

Aujourd’hui je rends hommage a Jay Haddad qui, pendant quatre ans et 
demie, a oeuvre au sein de notre Association comme directeur en chef de 
ce magazine en faisant preuve constante de devouement, d’integrite et de 
creativite. 

La qualite des articles sur la vie de camp, les pensees profondes qui s’en 
degageaient et la presentation du magazine dans son ensemble ont servi 
au mieux les interets de notre Association. 

Peu d’entre nous se rendent compte du travail que represente la 
preparation de ce magazine: trouver les sujets, ecrire, obtenir des articles, 
corriger les epreuves, preparer la mise en page et encore. Jay a toujours 
travai 116 dans I’ombre, anime du desir de concevoir un magazine de qualite. 

II se retire comme redacteur en chef de notre magazine et je tiens 6 le 
remercier au nom de tous du merveilleux travail qu’il a accompli pour 
I'Association des Camps du Canada. 


NEWS FROM THE NOUVEUESDU 
CCA EXECUTIVE COMITE EXECUTIF 

COMMITTEE DE L'ACC 


CCA’s reorganization is going well. AH of our committees except two are 
formed and doing very effective work. Here is news of several of those 
groups: 

The Publications Committee - under the leadership of Nancy Barker, of 
Camp Gay Venture in Ontario, is promoting book sales at a great rate with 
many new innovative ideas. 

The National Conference and Workshop Committee headed by Glenn 
Barned in New Brunswick is formed and ready to get plans underway for 
national workshops. 

The Newsletter under the Communications Committee will be the respon¬ 
sibility of a group from Camp Tawingo. This edition of the magazine is a 
transitional issue. With the Spring issue we will have a "new look" that 
promises to be most exciting. 

The Publicity Committee is hard at work. A new pamphlet promoting 
camping will be distributed in early February to all provincial associations 
for wide distribution to parents of camp age children. 

More news of CCA’s work will follow in the Spring edition. 


La restructuration de I’ACC va bon train. Tous les comites, sauf deux, sont 
maintenant formes et bourdonnent d’activite. En void un compte rendu: 

Le comite des publications, sous la direction de Nancy Barker, a mis au 
point des idees innovatrices pour promouvoir la vente des livres sur une 
grande echelle. 

Le comite du Congr6s national et des ateliers, sous la direction de Glenn 
Barned du Nouveau-Brunswick, est maintenant forme et pret a organiser 
des ateliers pour tous. 

Le bulletin d’actualite que publiera le comite des communications sera 
prepare par une equipe du Camp Tawingo. Notre magazine subit presente- 
ment une transition; il vous sera presente au printemps sous une nouvelle 
formule et promet d’etre des plus interessants. 

Le comite de la publicite a d6ja mis la main a la pate. II a congu un 
nouveau depliant qui vise a promouvoir la vie de camp. Les associations 
provinciates en recevront des quantites au debut de fevrier pour distribuer 
aux parents qui ont des enfants en age d’aller au camp. 

Nous vous donnerons d’autres nouvelles de I’ACC dans notre numero du 
printemps. 



2 

News from the CCA Executive Committee 


2 

Un mot de la pr6sidente 

CONTENTS 

2 

Nouvelles du comite executif de I’ACC 

WINTER 1986 

VOL 37, NO. 4 

3 

Preparation of New Campers and Parents of New Campers 
by: Jan James, Edmonton, Vice-President CCA/ACC 


5 

Between the Covers 


7 

Program News 


9 

Dolittle for Camping 

by: Gordon C. Allan, Director of Program & Personnel, Camp Nominigue, Quebec 


2 



PREPARATION OF NEW CAMPERS AND 
PARENTS OF NEW CAMPERS 

by: Jan James - Edmonton, Vice-President CCA/ACC 


This year will see an unprecedented number of 
camping programs for children. There is much 
preparation time given to counsellors, sites and 
programs but one group often feels ill prepared 
for camp: the parents of new campers. 

An informal meeting can be arranged that will 
allow you, as the Camp Director, to ask the 
following questions of parents which they should 
answer for themselves* 2 *: (a) Are they ready for 
their children to leave home? (b) Do they trust 
their child? (c) What fears do they have for their 
child leaving home? (d) Is their child ready to 
leave home? (e) Is the child physically prepared 
for the demands of the program being offered? 

It’s one thing for the parents to be ready for the 
child to leave home and another thing completely 
for the child to be ready to leave the parents. 

In order to help the child be ready for such an 
experience there are a number of things that the 
PARENTS can be encouraged to do: 

PRE-CAMP 

1. They can explain some of the idiosyncrasies 
of their children to camp staff. 

2. They can prepare the children to make their 
own beds, carry out simple housekeeping 
chores, etc. 

3. They should be encouraged to talk positively 
about camp at all times* 2 *. 

4. They should be warned not to discuss home¬ 
sickness* 2 * as this can often increase anxiety 
in the child. 

5. They should be asked if their child can take 
care of him/herself. Preventative health care 
is important. 

6. They should know that camp will enforce the 
table manners and personal grooming habits 
that it thinks they have been taught at home. 
(This often helps parents appreciate your 
objectives as they see you appreciate theirs). 

7. They should talk to their children about such 
subjects as space, darkness, noise, etc. in 
the country or wilderness areas as compared 
to the city environment with which they are 
more familiar. Parents should also make 
children aware that differences in others 
give them a uniqueness even as they are 
unique. The proposed living situation may 
not be familiar and hence campers should 
be prepared with realistic expectations. 


8. They should realize it is important for children 
to recognize their own clothes, and in order 
to do that, familiar and labelled clothes are 
the best ones to send with them. They need 
to be soft clothes, and appropriate for the 
activities to be undertaken. 

9. They should realize that it is good experience 
for children to practise living out of a suitcase 
at home for a week, and if campers help to 
pack their own suitcase they will know 
where things can be found in it.* 1 * 

10. They should be assured that their child will 
be sharing living spaces and/or activities 
with at least one friend. 

11. They should realize that on parting day fare¬ 
wells often show the feeling that parents 
have for their children and vice versa. Parents 
should be warned not to embarrass their 
children in front of their peers. 

DURING CAMP 

12. Campers are usually encouraged to' write 
home regularly. They also appreciate regular 
letters from home. The parents' letters should 
be cheerful and light, not mentioning how 
much the camper is missed at home! Parents 
should avoid writing too enthusiastically 
about a family trip, the fun the family is having 
while the child is at camp or other nostalgic 
news. The content of the letter should centre 
around what fun it must be at camp, the many 
new skills being learned and all the new 
friendships being made. 

13. Those camps offering Visitor’s Days can pre¬ 
pare parents by encouraging them to apply 
the same principles used when writing let¬ 
ters. It is very important for the child to know 
whether or not the parents will be visiting. 
The camper can then plan his/her day 
accordingly. When the parents do visit, they 
should remember that it is a day during 
which the camper can "show off” the camp, 
the crafts, the counsellor and the friendships 
which have been filling the camper’s stay. If a 
camper is feeling homesick, then the camp 
and the parents may need to discuss a 
strategy for dealing with the return to normal 
camp routine once the parents have left. 


POST-CAMP 

14. After camp, the parents should recognize 
the child’s achievements- even small ones.* 2 * 
Achievements such as bringing all their 
clothes back, carrying on a conversation 
around the dinner table, sharing with the 
family experiences they have had. Have the 
parents encourage the child to talk about 
camp and to nurture and develop the improve¬ 
ments they see in behaviour and attitudes. 
Remember, a little praise goes a long way. 
Improvements or changes in behaviour and 
attitude don’t always appear as soon as the 
child gets home. They are demonstrated at 
the appropriate time as seen by the child. 

15. Upon a child’s return after an absence of any 
length, the child needs to be assured of his 
place within his family again.* 3 * Parents will 
find he will need a little more of their time as 
he has much to tell them. 

Close the parents' meeting with some very 
specific advice that applies to your situation and 
the idea that the things that need most attention 
often get the least thought. Their youngster is 
leaving home and that's often the start of a 
growing separation program for life and this 
needs to have a firm foundation if it is to be 
effective. Of course, finish the time with ques¬ 
tions. Try to answer all questions to the best of 
your ability. Include in your presentation, prob¬ 
ably near to the beginning, any visuals (slides of 
the area, accommodation,...) that will help the 
parent to understand just where their child is 
going and what it is he/she will be doing. 

Be available to parents and a vast resource 
will open up to you. 

REFERENCES 

1. Alpert, Margaret. To Parents of Campers. Fundforthe Advance¬ 
ment of Camping, Illinois, 1969. 

2. American Camping Association, Preparing Your Child for 
Camp. Gerard A. Harrison, Chairma, ACA Publications Com¬ 
mittee. Indiana. 

3. Mead, Margaret. How Summer Camp Changes a Child. 
Redbook Magazine. August 1971. 


Canadian Camping is an official publication of the Canadian Camping Association/Association des 
Camps du Canada. Canadian Camping (ISSN 008-3119) is published quarterly. CCA/ACC member¬ 
ship includes a subscription; non-member subscriptions in Canada $6.00 a year or $15.00- 3 years. 
Send address changes to CCA/ACC, 1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1. 

Material in Canadian Camping may not be reproduced in any form, without written permission of the 
editor. Copyright 1986 Canadian Camping Association/Association des Camps du Canada. 


Cover: Archives Photo; Sherwood Forest Camp, 1957 


3 



NORTHERN DELTAS 

OASES FOR WILDLIFE 

peace-athabasca... slave... mackenzie 

Within the last three decades, destruction of wildlife 
habitats in southern Canada has accelerated. For 
example, 88% of the southern Ontario wetlands, 60% of 
the St. Lawrence River estuary marshes, 70% of the 
Fraser River marshes and 65% of the Maritime’s tidal 
marshes have been lost to development. On the prairies, 
nearly 1.2 million hectares (3 million acres) of natural 
slough and marsh have been eliminated by intensive 
agriculture. Will our northern deltas be the next to go? 

Wetlands are essential habitat for waterfowl and many 
other migratory birds, as well as aquatic mammals and 
often fish. These renewable resources make a valuable 
contribution both to our economy and quality of life. 

Annual Report 1982-1983. 

Environment Canada 


The Canada Wildlife Service has produced two excellent two-sided posters depicting the interrelationships 
between the water levels, birds, fish, and mammals in the Peace-Athabasca, Slave and Mackenzie deltas. 
Photographs and diagrams compare the ecology on different parts of the active delta, including the wildlife which 
inhabits each area. 

This publication can help you to instill appreciation and awareness of the sensitive, dynamic balance of life in our 
northern deltas. It will be especially useful for school environmental education programs, for your camp’s wildlife 
habitat management programs, and to help campers and staff to understand the importance of these northern 
deltas to their quality of life. 

You can order these publications in French or English from: 

Communications Branch 
Environmental Protection Service 
Twin Atria #4,2nd Floor, 4999-98 Avenue 
Edmonton, Alberta T6B 2X3 

or by phoning: 

Edmonton (403) 468-8075 
Regina (306) 780-6002 
Winnipeg (204) 949-4819 






BETWEEN THE COVERS 


Welcome to "BETWEEN THE COVERS”. This 



new CCA magazine department will appear in 
each issue with an informative book review and 
with new CCA Book Catalogue additions. It is 
one of the many ways that the CCA Publications 
Committee is promoting the CCA Bookstore. 

Our first book is Karl Rohnke’s Silver Bullets; 
Karl is also the author of Cow's Tails and Cobras 
and several other publications. Silver Bullets 
thrives on the element of risk taking (primarily 
perceived risk) and the goal of trust building. If 
you have some individuals that you would like to 
see working together as a group, try any one of 
these 166 activities. 

Silver Bullets lays out four important learning 
goals. First, the aim is to increase the partici¬ 
pants’ sense of personal confidence. Secondly, 
the assumption is that anyone who conscien¬ 
tiously makes an effort will be respected, thus, 
mutual support within the group will increase. 
Thirdly, a number of exercises and games 
develop an increased level of agility and physical 
coordination. And finally, the most important 
goal is to ensure that everyone has fun. This will 
develop an increased joy in one’s physical self 
and in being with others. 

Geared especially towards the young adult, 
this well organized book gives camp staff a 
quick method of identifying an appropriate act¬ 
ivity through the use of symbol codes. The 
symbols represent the space needed, materials 
to have at hand and the activity level planned for 
the group. Amusing pictures and illustrations 
complement this lively book. 

This thorough guide to initiative problems, 
adventure games and trust activities encourages 
participants to break down the artificial barriers 
between them. They are bound to learn more 
about themselves and group behaviour. 


NEW CCA BOOK CATALOGUE ADDITIONS: 

(Prices in brackets are for non-members) 

I. SERIE "UN CAMP A FAIRE" 

A) MANUEL DE GESTION 

1. Aspects generaux de (’administration 
$5.00 ($7.00) 

2. Gestion des ressources humaines 
$5.00 ($7.00) 

3. Gestion des programmes 
$5.00 ($7.00) 

4. Gestion des equipements 
$5.00 ($7.00) 

5. Gestion financiere 
$5.00 ($7.00) 

B) 1. Evaluation du rendement 

$3.00 ($4.20) 

2. Les objectifs et le programme 
$3.00 ($4.20) 

3. La planification des ressources humaines 
et selection du personnel 

$3.00 ($4.20) 

II. Les colonies de vacances depression 
frangaise en Belgique (communaute 
Wallonie-Bruxelles) et les camps de vacances 
au Quebec. 

$5.00 ($7.00) 


Silver Bullets 

Project Adventure, 186 pp., 1985 
Cost: $20.60 (members) 

$24.70 (non-members) 

Books listed in "Between the Covers" are avail¬ 
able from the Canadian Camping Association 
Bookstore. To order, contact the CCA/ACC 
office by mail or telephone: 

Canadian Camping Association 
Suite 2 

1806 Avenue Road 
Toronto, Ontario 
M5M 3Z1 
416-781-4717 


LET’S 
SEE YOU 
DO IT... 
OUTDOORS! 


pafrnapacnon, 





EN FORME 

POUF 

urn 


FIT 

FOR 

UFE 


LA CONDITION 


PHYSIQUE — 
UN PLAISIR 


DE VIVRE... 


Condition physique 
Canada, en collaboration 
avec les associations 
sportives et recreatives, 
assure a tout Canadien 
I'occasion de prof iter des 
benefices qui decoulent 
de I’activite physique. 

DECOUVREZ LA 
CONDITION PHYSIQUE. 

POUR LA VIE. 


FITNESS MEANS 


A LIFETIME 


OF FUN ... 


Fitness Canada, in 
partnership with 
national sport and 
recreation associations, 
provides opportunities 
for all Canadians to 
enjoy the benefits of 
physical activity. 

DISCOVER 
PHYSICAL 
FITNESS . 

FOR LIFE. 


From toddling to 
retirement, you can 
choose varied physical 
activities to keep up 
with your changing 
interests. Everyone — 
people of all shapes 
and ages, all levels of 
abilities and competi¬ 
tiveness — can get 
and stay active, for fun 
and for fitness. 


A partir des premiers pas 
chancelants jusqu’a la 
retraite, vous avez le 
choix d'une gamme 
variee d’activites 
physiques que vous 
pouvez adopter selon vos 
besoins changeants. 
Toute personne, quelle 
qu’elle soit, dans tous les 
niveaux de competence 
physique, peut etre 
active — et le demeurer 
— tant pour son plaisir 
que pour des raisons de 
bonne sante. 




Government of Canada 
Fitness and Amateur Sport 


Gouvernement du Canada 
Condition physique et Sport amateur 


Canada 










PROGRAM NEWS 

WE’VE GOT WHAT YOU'RE LOOKING FOR! 


It has been four years in the making. "It” is a 
3-ring binder stuffed with 400 pages of all- 
Canadian activities specially developed for 
camps. Science is... is about science and the 
outdoors - and camps that have tested the book 
say "Science Is... fun!” 

The book contains activities for campers 
aged 7 to 14 years and is for use by camp staff. 
YSF spoke with people across Canada, combed 
through over 500 books, and field tested Science 
Is... to ensure it’s both useful and useable. The 
ten subject areas in the book reflect what people 
wonder about and what challenges them most: 
Science Olympics (puzzle activities), Matter & 
Energy, Humans, Environmental Awareness, 
Living Creatures, Plants, Rocks, Weather, The 
Heavens, and Applying Science (what do 
humans do with all that knowledge out there?). 
One message that came through loud and clear 
from camp staff during the book’s field test was 
that staff don’t have a lot of time to wade through 
pages of text and information. They need a book 
they can flip through quickly and from which 
they can pick the activities they need at any 
given time. So, Science Is... is organized around 
three practical sections: Quickies, Make Time, 
and One Leads To Another. Each major section 
contains a variety of activities from the ten 
subject areas. 

The book’s general sections have been de¬ 
signed for ease of use, as have the activities 
themselves. Each activity is contained on one 
page. An activity begins with a one-sentence 
description to let you know what it’s about. The 
page numbers of good companion activities are 
noted. The next paragraph contains background 
facts and information - which are there only if 
you want or need them. The materials necessary 
for an activity are then listed, the activity itself is 
explained in a step-by-step procedure, and the 
activity is illustrated by a very entertaining 
cartoon. There’s no need for any kind of special 
background in science; the book is easy to read 
and contains all the basic information you’ll 
need. 



The book is $12.75/copy. It is 400 pages in a 
3-ring binder. The binder gives you the flexibility 
to take out only those sheets you need, to group 
activities to suit your needs, or to add interesting 
activities you’ve developed. Science Is... will be 
available in March, 1986. The YSF is running 
hands-on workshops to accompany the book. 
The workshop itself provides dozens of interest¬ 
ing ideas. Watch for the workshop and the book 
at the next provincial or local camping confer¬ 


ence you attend. If you’re planning a conference, 
the YSF can put on one of the most interesting 
and informative sessions around. 

If you’d prefer to write to YSF to order the 
book, the address is Canadian Youth Science 
Foundation, 151 Slater Street, 8th Floor, Ottawa, 
Ontario KIP 5H3. Please enclose $12.75 plus 
$4.00/copy for shipping and handling. 

“Science Is...” just what you’re looking for. 





A. <50*1 Eft 



CELEBRATE OCA’S 50th BIRTHDAY 


WITH AN 

ADVENTURE INTO 
THE PAST 



1936 - 1986 


1986 is the CCA’s fiftieth birthday. Your camp can take 
part in the celebration this summer! 

All across the country camps will participate by 
including one or all of the following activities in their 
programs: - historical journeys 

- re-enactment of early camping lifestyles 

- ceremonies and theme events 

Each participating camp will be recognized with a 
wall certificate and those camps pre-registering will 
receive cards for each of their campers. 


FOR MORE INFORMATION AND REGISTRATION 
FORMS CONTACT YOUR PROVINCIAL ASSOCIATION 



DOUTTLE FOR CAMPING 

by: Gordon C. Allan, Director of Program & Personnel, Camp Nominingue, Quebec 


Once upon a time, there lived a king whose 
name was Rupert. Rupert reigned over a small 
country known as Dolittle. The country was so- 
called because its inhabitants usually had little 
to do. Even Rupert himself found it hard to 
occupy his time. Other than polishing his crown, 
or knighting the odd person who happened to 
save a damsel in distress, Rupert usually spent 
most of his day twiddling his royal thumbs. 
Rupert also had to contend with the fact that 
Dolittle was a rather poor country. The average 
yearly income of a Dolittler was one sheep, one 
goat, and two bales of hay. The one exception, 
however, was Sir Frederick Parkdale. Sir Fred¬ 
erick was the Mayor of Dolittle. Parkdale, unlike 
most Dolittlers, was a wealthy man. He was 
wealthy because he owned the biggest and the 
most beautiful piece of land in the whole country. 
On this land, Parkdale kept ten pigs, three cows, 
four chickens, two goats, and one pet dragon. 
But even Parkdale was not a happy man. He too 
found Dolittle a dull place to live. Often, Parkdale 
and King Rupert would sit for hours trying to 
figure out how they could make Dolittle a 
happier place to live, but always to no avail. 

As the years went by, Dolittlers continued to 
live in boredom. Then, one year a cold wind 
blew across the country causing large crop 
failures. That same year. Sir Frederick took ill 
and died. 

As you might imagine, the Dolittlers were in an 
awful state of affairs. They had lost many of their 
valuable crops that were to provide their liveli¬ 
hood, and they had also lost their good friend, 
Sir Frederick. 

King Rupert decided to call an emergency 
round table meeting to discuss Dolittle’s grave 
situation. The large clock in the centre of 
Dolittle’s main square ticked away as the emer¬ 
gency meeting continued through the day, right 
through the night, and almost through the morn¬ 
ing of the next day. Then, at 11:00 a.m. the 
following morning, King Rupert sent the Town 
Crier through the streets of Dolittle to inform all 
Dolittlers that the King would be giving a very 
important address to the nation at 1:00 p.m. 
Eastern Dolittle Time. 

By 12:30 p.m., the Dolittlers had congregated 
in front of King Rupert's palace to hear his very 
important address. As the clock in Dolittle’s 
square chimed one o’clock, the windows at the 
top of the palace wall opened and King Rupert 
walked out on the balcony: "Friends, neigh¬ 
bours, Dolittlers”, he began. "As you have already 
gathered, our country is in the midst of a major 
crisis. We have lost many of our crops and, of 
course, our good friend Sir Frederick Parkdale. 
While it is likely that we have enough food to 
make it through the year, I fear that many of you 
will die from boredom unless something can be 
done to make Dolittle a more interesting place to 
live. It should, therefore, interest you to know 
that our dear departed friend, Sir Frederick, has 


stipulated in his will, that his land with its ten 
pigs, three cows, four chickens, two goats and 
one pet dragon, shall be donated to the town of 
Dolittle on the condition that it will be used to 
make Dolittle a happier place.” 

The crowd cheered, and the king continued. 
"I am therefore offering two bags of gold to the 
Dolittler who can provide the best use for Sir 
Frederick’s land. The contest will be open for 
one month after which time I will call another 
round table meeting to decide upon a winner.” 

As the days went by in Dolittle, Dolittlers 
began writing down their ideas for the use of the 
land. The contest was the talk of the town. 
Everyone seemed to have the definitive use for 
Parkdale’s land. Some proposed that it be used 
to grow more crops. Others suggested that it 
could be made into a bird sanctuary, while still 
others felt strongly about it being used for 
grazing the town’s animals. 

As the last day of the month neared, the king 
had received an entry from every Dolittler except 
one. The one exception was Simon Carsdale, 
the town teacher. In fact no one in the town could 
recollect having seen Carsdale for the past 
month. While it was true that school was over for 
the year, it was still somewhat unusual not to see 
Carsdale around town. 

As the last day of the month arrived, everyone 
waited in anticipation for the closure of the 
contest. King Rupert declared that all entries 
had to be submitted no later than 11:00 a.m. As 
the clock ticked away and the hour came closer, 
it seemed certain that all entries had been 
received. Then at 10:55 a.m., just as the contest 
was about to close, Simon Carsdale came run¬ 
ning into the palace court with his entry. A round 
table meeting was immediately convened. 

Five hours later, the king emerged from his 
palace, weary eyed and carrying a piece of 
paper. "After much discussion,” he began, "we 
have decided to accept the suggestion put forth 
by Simon Carsdale." The crowd hummed and 
hawed and then waited to hear what proposal 
was worthy of two bags of gold. 

The king continued. "Mr. Carsdale has recently 
returned from a land known as Wakanda. In this 
land of Wakanda, a piece of land, called a 
"camp”, of approximately four hundred acres 
has been set aside for the use of making people 
happy. We have therefore decided to turn Sir 
Parkdale's acre of land into a camp." 

The crowds cheered, and Simon Carsdale 
was hailed as a jolly good fellow. 

As the months passed in Dolittle, Dolittlers 
began doing things. Everyone in the town con¬ 
tributed what little they owned to help finance 
Camp Parkdale. Parkdale’s animals were sold 
to finance the purchase of a few tents and a 
couple of wooden boats. The dragon was kept 
to use for training knights (who of course had to 
know how to fend off dragons). A number of huts 
were built and different towns folk agreed to 


come and teach their particular profession. 

While Camp Parkdale had very few facilities, 
Dolittlers were still able to find lots to do. 
Because most Dolittlers had never had anything 
to occupy their time before, Camp Parkdale 
seemed like the greatest place in the world. 
Here they could share the two boats, the dragon 
and use what limited stuff they had to have a 
good time. Dolittle was therefore no longer a 
boring place to live. 

Late in the year, King Rupert was asked to go 
to Wakanda on business. Here he had a chance 
to visit Camp Wakanda. Wakanda was a lot 
different from Parkdale. Wakanda had seven 
boats, six pet dragons and lots of neat things 
that Rupert had never even heard of. King 
Rupert was impressed and he wished that he 
could have half of what Wakanda had. But as 
King Rupert walked through Camp Wakanda, he 
noticed a small boy sitting by himself doing 
nothing. 

"What’s wrong young man?", asked the king. 
“I’m bored”, replied the boy. "I’ve come to Camp 
Wakanda for the past two years and have done 
everything there is to do. Now I have little to do.” 
This puzzled the king. How could someone be 
bored with so many facilities? Then the king had 
an idea. "Young boy”, said the king, "how would 
you like to visit Camp Parkdale?” The boy 
jumped up and down in excitement and shouted 
"Yes, please!” 

When the boy finally arrived at Parkdale, he 
couldn’t believe his eyes. Lots of people were 
having a good time with only one pet dragon and 
two wooden boats on just one acre of land. But 
as the boy sat in bewilderment, watching people 
have a good time with only a few neat things, the 
young boy realized that it was not the facilities 
that made a camp great, but the spirit of wanting 
to do things. The boy therefore realized how 
lucky he was to have so many fun things at 
Wakanda, and asked the king if he could return. 
The king also realized that he didn’t need all 
those fancy things that Wakanda had, for his 
Dolittlers were now doing lots. 


Semaine 

nationale de I'activity physique 
24 mai-1 juin 1986 



National 


Physical Activity Week 
May 24-June 1, 1986 


9 




CELEBRONS LE 

50 e ANNIVERSAIRE DE L’ACC 

UNE INVITATION A UN 
VOYAGE DANS LE PASSE 

L’annee de 1986, marque le cinquantieme anniversaire de 
l’ACC. Nous vous invitons a participer aux festivites 
estivales. 

Des camps partout au pays inscriront a leur 
programme Tune ou plusieurs des activites suivantes pour 
commemorer ce grand evenement: 

- voyages historiques 

- reconstitution de la vie de camps a ses debuts 

- ceremonies et celebrations speciales 

Chaque camp recevra un certificat mural en temoignage 
de sa participation et les camps qui s’inscriront a l’avance 
recevront des cartes pour leurs campeurs. 

POUR DE PLUS AMPLES RENSEIGNEMENTS ET POUR OBTENIR 
LES FORMULAIRES DTNSCRIPTION, VEUILLEZ CONTACTER 
VOTRE ASSOCIATION PROVINCIALE. 


10 




“OUR FRAGI LE WORLD - 
A CHALLENGE FOR THE 
OUTDOOR COMMUNITY” 

SECOND INTERNATIONAL CAMPING CONGRESS 

March 3-5,1987 Shoreham Hotel Washington, D.C. 

*Jointly Sponsored by 
the American Camping Association 
the Canadian Camping Association 
the Jamaica Camping and Hiking Association 
the National Camping Association of Japan 

Purpose 

The Second International Camping Congress is an event to bring together the practitioners of the 
outdoor experience movement from many nations and related organizations to examine the 
elements of our fragile world which challenge the organized camping, environmental, and 
experiential education community to impact participants for future action. 


CCA is planning special flight rates for Canadian delegates from Toronto to Washington and return. Accommodation will be available in 
Washington for Canadian Camping Members at very low rates through special arrangements with the American Camping Association. 
Watch for more information soon and plan to attend this Second International Camping Congress. 



Glen Bernard Camp 


11 





Canadian camping association 
association dcs camps da Canada 



SUITE 2 1806 AVENUE ROAD 
TORONTO ONTARIO MSM 371 

VOL. 37, NO. 4 
WINTER 1986 
ISSN 008-3119 


1915 

MISS JANE MCCUTCHEON 
C/0 CAMP TAWINGO 
R.R. #1 
HUNTSVILLE ON 
POA 1K 0 



CCA'S 50TH YEAR 





'jjwn nitliTi 




/// 

an 


O i 
V i 

S') 


— K 

*<* K 

WAjULrvjwi.rvu^:J 


12 



