




















IN THIS ISSUE 

The year 1987 begins with a great edition of Canadian Camping 
Magazine, full of information and good reading. This issue’s 
Personality Profile reflects the major contribution to camp 
program, camp spirit and camp literature by Mary S. Edgar. 
These impacts were felt not only at Glen Bernard Camp near her 
home in Sundridge, Ontario, but they can be traced into virtually 
all our Camps across the country. 

Committee Notes and Camping from Coast to Coast tell us 
what the C.C.A. and Provincial Camping Associations are doing 
midstride to next summer. There are several program articles for 
your use, as well as more preparation for the International 
Camping Congress. 

In June of last year, Camp Oconto in Ontario experienced a 
devastating Dining Hall fire three days before opening for the 
summer. There are some valuable hints on crisis management 
contained in an article by Bruce and Lisa Wilson, the Directors of 
Camp Oconto. 

We look forward to greeting many of our camping friends in 
Washington, D.C. in March. 

DANS CETTE LIVRAISON 

L’annee 1987 commence avec une bonne edition de 
Canadian Camping Magazine, plein de renseignements et 
de lecture interessante. Le profil de personnalite de cette 
livraison presente la contribution exceptionnelle qu’a 
donne Mary S. Edgar au programme, au moral et a la 
litterature de camping. Elle a fait de fortes impressions 
non seulement sur Glen Bernard Camp pres de son foyer a 
Sundridge, mais expratique aussi sur tous les camps du 
pays. 

Lisez les notes des Comites et Camping D’une Cote a 
I’autre pour decouvrir ce que font I’A.C.C. et les 
associations provincielles a mi-chemin de I’ete. On 
trouvera utile les plusieurs articles de programme; il y a 
aussi plus de preparatifs pour I’lnternational Camping 
Congress (le congres de camping international). 

Juin passe, Camp Oconto a I’Ontario a connu un feu 
devastateur dans le refectoire trois jours avant d’ouvrir 
pour I’ete. II y a un article de Bruce et Lisa Wilson qui 
contient des avis. 

Nous attendons avec impatience le plaisir de voir en 
mars un grand nombre de nos de Camping a Washington, 
D.C. 


BEHIND THIS ISSUE 

DiRIGEANT CETTE LIVRAISON 


STAFF 


PERSONNEL 


Editor-in-Chief 

Jack Pearse 

Editeuren chef 

Senior Editors 

Jane McCutcheon 

John Jorgenson 

Editeurs sup6rieres 

Regional Editors 

Brenda McFarlane—Eastern 

Liz Greenway—Central 

Mickey Johnstone—Western 

Editeurs r6gionaux 

Office Staff 

Lisa Pearse 

Wendy Muir 

Carol Sportun 

Personnel du bureau 

Translation 

Jill Grant 

Traduction 

Printers 

Cober Printing, Kitchener, Ont. 

Imprimeurs 

BOARD of DIRECTORS 

Conseil D’admlnlstratlon 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 

Les Offlclers Executlf 

President 

Janet Adamson, Toronto, Ont. 

Presidents 

Past President 

Jocelyn Palm, Toronto, Ont. 

Ancienne Presidents 

Secretary 

Patti Thom, Toronto, Ont. 

Secretaire 

Treasurer 

Skip Connett, Thornhill, Ont. 

Tr6sorier 

Vice Pres. (Eastern) 

Ian Fowler, Moncton, N.B. 

Vice-president 

Vice Pres. (Western) 

Jan James, Ardrossan, Alta. 

Vice-presidente 

Vice Pres. (Quebec) 

Ken Willis, Magog, Que. 

Vice-president 

Vice Pres. (Ontario) 

Sally Moore, Toronto, Ont. 

Vice-presidente 

President Emeritus 

F.M. Van Wagner, Point Claire, 
Que. 

President 6m6rite 

PROVINCIAL REPRESENTATIVES 

Representants Provlnclaux 

Newfoundland 

Frank O’Connor 

La Terre Neuve 

Nova Scotia 

Kelley Byrne 

LaNouvelle Ecosse 

New Brunswick 

Dan Soucy 

Le Nouveau Brunswick 

Quebec 

Colette Poullot-Marier 

Le Quebec 

Ontario 

Fred Okada 

L’Ontario 

Manitoba 

Grant Platts 

Le Manitoba 

Saskatchewan 

Penny Wlngert 

Le Saskatchewan 

Alberta 

Bob Sperling 

L’Alberta 

British Columbia 

Jack Way 

La Colombie Britannique 

CCA COMMITTEES 


Comites ACC 

Archives 

Bruno Morawetz, Peterborough, 
Ont 

Les Archives 

Professional 


Le D6veloppement 

Development 

Dorothy Walter, Toronto, Ont. 

Professional 

National Conferences 

Les Ateliers et les 

and Workshops 

Glenn Barned, Victoria, BC/CB 

Conferences Nationales 

French Language 

Gerard Bachand, Rawdon, Que. 

Le Frangais 

Fund Raising 

Jack Pearse, Waterloo. Ont. 

Accumulation des Fonds 

Environment 

Jean Funk, Sherwood Pk., Alta. 

Le milieu 

Publications 

Nancy Barker, Seebe, Alta. 

Publications 

Magazine 

Camp Tawingo, Huntsville, Ont. 

Revue 

1987 Congress 

Liaison du congr6s 1987 

Liaison 

Dave Sands, Toronto, Ont. 


Adventure into the 


Liaison du voyage dans le 

Past Liaison 

Cliff Labbett, Toronto, Ont. 

passe 

Immigration 

Barry Lowes, Toronto, Ont. 

L'immigratlon 


NATIONAL OFFICE 

Canadian Camping Association 
1806 Avenue Road, Ste. 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
(416) 781-4717 


BUREAU NATIONAL 

Association des Camps du Canada 
1806 Avenue Road, Ste. 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
(416) 781-4717 


Administrative 

Secretary 


Irene Knapp 


Secretaire administrative 


CONTENTS 


PRESIDENT’S MESSAGE 3 

— Janet Adamson 

GOT A MINUTE? 3 

CAMPING FROM COAST TO COAST 4 

WHAT’S IN A NAME? 6 

COMMITTEE NOTES 7 

TRIBUTE TO BIG COVE CAMP 8 

— Kelley Byrne 

PERSONALITY PROFILE — MARY S. EDGAR 9 
— Barbara and John Gilchrist 
BETWEEN THE COVERS 16 

— Nancy Barker 

UNDER OPEN SKIES 17 

FIRE! FEU! 20 

— Lisa and Bruce Wilson 


THE WHOLE DINING HALL WAS 
ENGULFED IN FIRE 21 

CAMP CHEBOYGAN 23 

GOING UP THE WALL 24 

— Bernie Woods 

1987 O.C.A. CONFERENCE 25 

BUBBY NASH AWARD 26 

A PROGRAM PARADE 27 

CANADA CELEBRATES 100 YEARS 
OF WILDLIFE CONSERVATION 28 

SOME THOUGHTS FOR THE DAY 28 

2ND INTERNATIONAL CAMPING 
CONGRESS 29 

N.I.U. TEACHER EDUCATION ™ 


2 






PRESIDENT’S 

MESSAGE 



As 1987 unfolds there are two endeavours of 
which CCA / ACC can be superbly proud. | 

The first is the recently published Curriculum 
for Camp Directors. Dorothy Walter and the 
Professional Development Committee worked 

diligently for several years on this project and __ 

the final result is a document that will enable all 
camping professionals in Canada to involve themselves in 
enhanced professional development. In each Province, there are 
projects underway to promote the use of this Curriculum, and I 
urge you to become involved. 

The Professional Development Committee chaired by Dorothy 
Walter and other committee members namely, Stan Talesnick, 
Marjorie Booth, and John Wilkinson, is to be congratulated on 
this project. As well, Fitness Canada, who encouraged, advised 
and gave financial support, are to be thanked. 

The second highlight of 1987 of which we can be proud is the 
Second International Camping Congress to be held very soon in 
Washington. CCA/ACC, through our representative David 
Sands, has played an integral part in the planning of this event. 
The success of the First International Camping Congress in 1983 
in Toronto led the way for this second Congress. 

Over one hundred Canadians will be among the delegates. Each 
Province in our Federation will be represented and we can look 
forward to a sparkling event, including a reception at the 
Canadian Embassy in Washington. I look forward to seeing many 
of you in Washington and to my visits to British Columbia in 
March, Newfoundland in April and Quebec in May. 

And a final newsworthy item! We are pleased to welcome Sally 
Moore as the new C.C.A./A.C.C. Vice-President for Ontario. 
We look forward to her contributions. Congratulations, Sally. 


by Janet Adamson 
President , C.C.A./A.C.C. 


UN MOT 
DU PRESIDENT 


Comme 1987 se deroule, il y a deux efforts 
desquels 1’ACC/CAA peut etre super- 
bement fier. 

Le premier est le recemment publi “Cur- 
y riculum for Camp Directors”. Dorothy Walter 

_et le comite du developpement profes- 

sionnel ont travaille avec application 
pendant plusieurs annees sur ce projet, et le resultat final 
est un document qui permettra a tous les professionnels 
de camping du Canada de participer au developpement 
professionnel augmente. Dans chaque province, on a 
commence des projets pour promouvoir I’usage de ce 
programme, et je vous conseille vivement d’y participer. 

II faut feliciter le comite du developpement profes¬ 
sionnel qui est preside par Dorothy Walter et qui a les 
membres suivants; Stan Talesnick, Marjorie Booth, et John 
Wilkinson de ce projet. De plus, nous remercions Fitness 
Canada pour leur encouragement, pour leurs avis, et pour 
leur soutien financier. 

Le deuxieme clou de 1987 duquel nous pouvons etre 
tiers est le deuxieme International Camping Congress qui 
aura lieu tres bientot a Washington. L’ACC/CCA, grace k 
notre representant David Sands a beaucoup contribue k 
I’organisation de cet evenement. 

La reussite du premier International Camping Congress 
en 1983 k Toronto a montre le chemin pour ce deuxieme. 

Plus de cent Canadiens seront parmi les Congressistes. 
Chaque province de notre federation sera represente et 
nous pourons nous promettre un evenement etincelant, y 
compris une reception a I’ambassade du Canada k 
Washington. J’attends avec impatience le plaisir de voir 
beaucoup de vous a Washington et de mes visites k la 
Colombie Britannique en mars, k la Terre Neuve en avril et 
au Quebec en mai. 

Et une nouvelle finale! Nous avons le plaisir d’acceuillir 
Sally Moore comme nouvelle vice-presidente de 
I’ACC/CCA pour I’Ontario. Nous attendons avec 
impatience ses contributions. Felicitations, Sally. 


Got A Minute? Avez-vous un instant? 


Here are some ‘newsy* items, excerpted 
from the minutes of the most recent 
meeting of the C.C.A./A.C.C. Board of 
Management Meeting. This is information 
about your Association. If you are 
interested in more information on what is 
happening in C.C.A./A.C.C., contact 
your Regional Vice-President. C.C.A./ 
A.C.C. works only when we do!! 

— Did you know that the C.C.A./ 
A.C.C. is looking for a Promotions 
Chairman, and an Assistant National 


Conference and Workshop Chairman? 
Are you interested? 

— Our French language committee is 
in the process of developing a new publi¬ 
cation of Camps in Canada. Great idea! 

— C.C.A./A.C.C. hopes to publish a 
revised edition of the Woodsmanship 
Leader’s Guide. Wait for more news. 

— A new revised statistics form is 
being prepared by C.C.A./A.C.C. Let’s 
all be conscientious about supporting our 
Association by completing this important 


form as accurately and as quickly as 
possible. 

— Did you know that camping is alive 
and well in the Yukon and the Northwest 
Territories? Our western region vice- 
president, Jan James, visited 3 centres in 4 
days, and made 17 speeches to a variety of 
groups involved in residential and day 
camping. The Alberta Camping 
Association hopes to lend support to the 
camping people in this vast region of our 
country. 


3 








CAMPING: 


From Coast To Coast 
D’une Cdte A L’Autre 



ATLANTIC REGIONAL NEWS 

by IAN FOWLER, VICE-PRESIDENT 
(ATLANTIC REGION) 

The past few months have been relatively quiet for Camping 
Associations on the east coast. While all have been busy carrying 
on day-to-day housekeeping and planning matters, a high level 
of activity has occurred. 

My travels have taken me to Nova Scotia, New Brunswick and 
Prince Edward Island during the past two months, with hopes of 
visiting our friends of the Newfoundland Camping Association 
early in 1987. Both New Brunswick and Nova Scotia have 
reviewed and adjusted action plans, which will provide a variety 
of activities for their members in upcoming years. Efforts are still 
being made to establish a Provincial Association in P.E.I. and I 
am hopeful this will occur in 1987. Newfoundland has continued 
to flourish under Frank O’Connor’s leadership and keeps the 
camping spirit alive in Canada’s youngest Province. 

I am confident heading into 1987 that the role of the C.C.A. 
and its federated members will become of even greater 
importance as the camping movement continues to grow, serving 
not only youth but all those participating in a structured outdoor 
recreation experience. 


LES NOUVELLES DE LA REGION ATLANTIQUE 

par Ian Fowler, vice-president 

Pendant ces mois-ci, les associations des camps k la 
cdte de Test ont 6t6 tranquilles. Au m&me temps que tout 
le monde s’occupait aux affaires de menage et de planifi- 
cation, il s’est passe un niveau haut d’activite. 

J’ai voyage pendant les deux derniers mois a la Nouvelle 
Ecosse, au Nouveau Brunswick et k rile de Prince Edouard, 
et j’espdre pouvoir visiter nos amis de (’Association des 
Camps de la Terre Neuve des que possible en 1987. Le 
Nouveau Brunswick et la Nouvelle Ecosse, tous les deux, 
ont passe en revue et ont ajuste leurs plans d’action, qui 
fournira touts une gamme d’activitds pour leurs membres 
dans les anndes qui viennent. On essaie toujours d’etablir 
une association provincielle k I’lle de Prince Edouard et je 
suis plein d’espoir qu'en 1987 cela sera accompli La Terre 
Neuve a continue k prosperer sous la direction de Frank 
O’Connor et elle preserve I’esprit de camping au province 
plus jeune de Canada. 

En commengant 1987, je suis sur que le rdle de I’ACC/ 
CCA et de ses membres f6der6s deviendra de plus en plus 
important comme le mouvement de camping continue k 
s'agrandir, tout en servant non seulement les jeunes, mais 
tous qui participant it une experience de la recreation en 
plein air. 






NEW BRUNSWICK 

AT OUR CAMP 

by Gillian Young 

Gillian Young is on staff at Camp Glenburn in 
N.B . and provides an anecdotal look back on the 
summer of1986. 

Reprinted from Camping News 

Two conscientious C.I.T.’s arrived at the Camp Director’s 
Cabin at 12:45 a.m. to report what they believed was a forest fire. 
The Camp Director quickly followed the boys to the scene but as 
they neared the edge of the forest, it appeared to be only a flash¬ 
light. The C.I.T.’s reassured the Camp Director that it had been 
flickering — they had seen flames. There was no smoke and no 
scent of a forest fire. The three headed deeper into the woods to 
the source of the light. What a surprise! A counsellor in the 
campcraft area having a midnight snack of — believe it or not — 
lobster. The C.I.T.’s had indeed seen flames; those of a Coleman 
stove. The counsellor had a lovely set-up with a lantern shedding 
light on his stove, lobster and his table laid with everything on it, 
including the butter. It was quite a unique idea, but it didn’t quite 
fit into the camp rules. The counsellor was sent to bed. The 
C.I.T.’s returned to their beds feeling quite embarrassed and the 
Camp Director returned to bed chuckling at the situation. It was a 
night to remember! 

A few of the younger boys found a stray cat which had been 
around camp for about two weeks and had decided to have 
kittens on their counsellor’s bunk. The nature director was 
immediately summoned to supervise the birth and answer the 
questioning minds of the young campers. It was a thrill for many 
and needless to say, all of the nature classes benefitted from the 
event. 

A camper started to walk home. She intended to use her Tuck 
Money — the large sum of $4.00, to pay for the taxi. But it 
wasn’t too far into her journey that she realized she wouldn’t 
make it. Her suitcase was as big as she was and to her displeasure 
and our satisfaction, she made it about ten yards beyond her 
cabin door. By the way, she lasted the two weeks at camp and 
now wants to return next year! 

Five campers walked up and down the hill at Camp Glenburn 
57 times in a row. They got their names in the “GLENBURN 
BOOK OF RECORDS.*’ For those of you who are familiar with 
the Camp Glenburn Hill, this was quite a feat. I’m sure you 
would agree. 

We used more rainy day programs this summer than we have 
used in total in the last three years. 

ALL ... IN ... ALL ... 

A GOOD SUMMER AT GLENBURN. 

NEW BRUNSWICK 

N.B.C.A. PRESENTS THE ANNUAL 
WINTER OUTDOOR SKILLS INSTITUTE 

DATES: 6:00 p.m. Thursday, February 26th 

to 

2:00 p.m. Sunday, March 1st, 1987 
LOCATION: Fundy National Park, Alma, N.B. 

COST: The registration fee entitles participants to all meals 
during the workshop, accommodation, souvenir shirt, 
workshop sessions and handout materials. 

Prior to Feb, 1 After Feb. 1 
Members $62.00 $72.00 

Non-members $72.00 $82.00 

MAXIMUM REGISTRATION: 25 first year participants and 

15 veterans. 




PROGRAM: The program is designed to meet three basic 
objectives: (1) development of personal skills; (2) development 
of teaching progressions and leadership skills; and (3) develop¬ 
ment of a library of program ideas. 

Specific sessions will be held on the following topics: 

INTERPRETING NATURE WITH CHILDREN 
CROSS COUNTRY SKIING 
CAMP SKILLS 
MAP & COMPASS 
SHELTER BUILDING 
SHOWSHOEING 
CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
ORIENTEERING 

WINTER GAMES AND SNOW PLAY 
AND MUCH MORE ... 

An OVERNIGHT TREK is planned for second and third year 
participants. 

RESOURCE PERSONS: Outdoor recreation and education 
practitioners from across the province will be on hand to lead the 
sessions. 

REGISTRATION: For more information contact: 

N.B.C.A., P.O. Box 263, 

Moncton, N.B. E1C 8K9 


A QUEBEC REGIONAL NEWS 

by Ken Willis 

C.C.A./A.C.C. Vice-President 
m (Quebec Region) 

The French Language Committee has made excellent progress 
on a report proposing a policy for bilingualism in the C.A.A./ 
A.C.C. It will be proposed at an early Board of Management 
meeting and a policy for its implementation will be considered 
soon afterward. 


This Committee has also been following up on the identifi¬ 
cation of French Language Camps outside Quebec, partly 
through its Ontario and New Brunswick members. A new 
directory of these camps will be published this year. 

The A.C.Q. has, over the past years, received very signifi¬ 
cant funding from the Provincial Government. The degree of this 
funding has been reduced somewhat over the past couple of years 
and the A.C.Q. now expects there will be significant cut backs 
due to the financial condition of the Government. However, the 
A.C.Q. has been placing more and more emphasis on self- 
financing and has made good progress along this line. It is likely 
that, during the coming year, members will be expected to 
contribute much more of their time to fulfill the services of the 
organization or they will have to dig further into their pockets to 
cover its financial obligations. There has been some mention of 
looking to other Provincial Organizations for leads on the former 
of those two alternatives. 


The organized camping movement in Quebec was bom in 1938. 
Tony Shorgun, who has been involved in camping during many of 
the intervening years, is already at work laying plans for the 50th 
Anniversary of this birth which, obviously, will be held next year. 

Camp membership in A.C.Q. has been holding well at about 
110 with a few being dropped each year because they do not meet 
standards and a few new ones being added. The Board of 
Directors each year agonizes over a few camps which seem care¬ 
less about the paperwork involved in meeting standards as well as 
a few others who want to be members but are unwilling or unable 
to improve facilities or personnel or management in such a way as 
to meet the standards by which the A.C.Q. protects the public 
and the other members who do meet the standards. 


5 



r—— ONTARIO 

Ail We hope you had a safe and happy holiday 

II' season. May our dreams of sugar plum pastries 

T|| and camps that are filled to capacity become 
A a reality in the New Year. 

Ontario’s Camp Directors are anxiously waiting for our Annual 
Conference to take place early in the New Year. It is with equal 
anticipation that we look forward to the International Congress 
in March, so that we, from across Canada, can make our presence 
felt in Washington, D.C. Oh! what a time that will be. 

Liability insurance continues to be an issue here in Ontario. 
There are still questions of adequate coverage and total coverage 
that lurk as threats that may affect some camps. Coverage 
without total coverage means that some programs may not be 
covered. Included in all of this is the rising cost of insurance as 
well. 

The Ontario Camping Association has joined the Parks and 
Recreation Federation of Ontario which is a group that represents 
the common elements of ten recreational associations. One of the 
benefits of membership is that of being well represented when it 
comes to issues that may require lobbying the Government. The 
Federation has systems well in place that will enable us to be more 
effective in that area. As well, we have the support of the other 


members of the Federation. We look forward to our association 
with P.R.F.O. with the hope that we can give and take within the 
recreation community. 

ALBERTA 

■ Congratulations to the following people 
W who have been selected to represent Alberta to 
attend the 2nd International Camping Con¬ 
gress in Washington, D.C. in March of 1987. 


Shirley Cuthill 
Megan Jentz 
Carson Herrick 
Sarah Drew 
Rob Lindskog 
Rod Irwin 
Jean Funk 
Cathy Martin 
Mickey Johnston 


Anne McMillan 
Margaret Seel 
Bob Sperling 
George Taven 
Bob Williamson 
A1 Hart 
Matthew Daw 
David Larsen 
Loma Hughes 


Barb Forster 
Gary Luthy 
Jan James 
Gary Goertzen 
Shirley McFall 
Wayne Perkins 
Jo-anne Kobylka 
Harry Swan 
Mike Walters 



Canadian Camping Association 
National Office/Siege Sociale 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, 

Toronto, Ont. M5M 3Z1 
Phone: (416) 781-4717 


WHAT’S IN A NAME? 


The Art and Science of Camp names is a subject for detailed 
and prolonged study. The origins for some names are as simple as 
identifying the lake or mountain upon which the camp is located 
or the name of the founder or first director. Other names are 
complicated tongue twisting acronyms or they are native terms 
defying pronunciation by any but five year veterans of the camp 
itself. (Those campers and staff can even make it rhyme in the 
camp song). 

As its contribution to the language of camping the 
CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE will send a crack team of 
investigative reporters into the archives of different camps across 
the country to deliver to its readership not only the correct 
pronunciation of the feature camp but the origin of its name as 
well. CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE invites suggestions 
and data for future issues. 

CAMP ECTUS (ek’tas) 

Camp Ectus is located on approximately 26 acres of 
land near Petit Rocher Nord (Bathurst) in New 40 ) 
Brunswick. It is a residential camp for 100 coed campers 
between the ages of 8 and 12. It offers a full range of 
traditional camp activities. Jean-Eudes Doucet is the 
current Director. 

The name, (originally ICTUS) reflected the religious base of 
the sponsoring agency as an acronym, combining the first letters 
of various words of Christian origin. The “I” was icon, “C” 
Christus, etc. The other words of the acronym are lost in camping 
history until someone contacts us. 

The change to Ectus was prompted by a camp doctor who 
pointed out that “ictus” was more than an acronym. It is a 
medical term for a “sudden attack or fit” sometimes associated 
with heart attacks. Apparently, some former Directors argued, at 
the time, that this new definition made the name all the more 
appropriate, given the problems of directing a typical camp, but it 
was to no avail. 

A new name was sought and found by adapting the prefix 
“ecto” from the Greek work “ektos” meaning “outside”. It is in 
the out-of-doors that Camp Ectus campers meet each summer to 
grow strong and happy in camp life. 


L’Art et la Science des noms de camps est un sujet qui 
merite une 6tude detaillee et prolongee. Quelques noms 
ont les origines aussi simple que I’identification d’un lac 
ou d’une montagne ou se trouve le camp ou que le nom du 
fondateur ou du premier directeur. D’autres noms sont les 
acronymes tres difficiles k prononcer, ou ils sont des 
termes indigenes que personne, sauf les v&terans de cinq 
ans du camp. (Ces campeurs et ces employes peuvent 
m§me le faire rimer dans la chanson du camp). 

Comme contribution au langage de camping le 
“Canadian Camping Magazine” enverra une Equine de 
journalistes investigateurs dans les archives de differents 
camps du pays pour presenter aux lecteurs la prononci- 
ation correct du camp et aussi I’origine de son nom. 
Canadian Camping Magazine invite les suggestion et les 
informations pour les livraisons k venir. 

. Camp Ectus se trouve sur k peu ptes 26 acres de 
/ terrain pres de Petit Rocher Nord (Bathurst) en 
* Nouveau Brunswick. C’est un camp tesidentiel pour 
100 campeurs mixtes ag&s de 8 ans «i 12 ans. II offre 
toute une gamme d’activites traditionnelles. Jean- 
Kl. ' Eudes Doucet est le directeur du moment. 

Le nom, (originellement ICTUS) a reflets la base 
religieuse de I’agence repondante comme acronyme, en 
combinant les premiers lettres de divers mots d’origine 
chretien. “I” etait icon, le “C” 6tait christus et les autres 
mots de I’acronyme sont perdus dans I'histoire de camping 
jusqu’au moment ou quelqu’un se mettra en contact avec 
nous. 

Un docteur du Camp a incite le changement en re- 
marquant que le mot “ictus” etait plus qu’un acronyme. II 
est un terme medical qui veut dire “une crise soudaine” et 
qu’on associe quelquefois avec les crises cardiaques. 
Apparemment, d’anciens directeurs ont constate que cette 
nouvelle definition a fait meiileur choisi le nom, k cause 
des probtemes qu'on a en administrant un camp, mais 
sans tesultat. 

On a chercfte un nouveau nom et I’a trouve en ajustant le 
ptefixe “ecto" du mot grec “ektos" qui veut dire “en 
dehors”. C’est en dehors que les campeurs du “Camp 
Ectus” se retrouvent chaque §te pour devenir fort et 
heureux grace a la vie du camp. 


6 






Committee Notes/Les Notes Des Comites 


Immigration 
Task Force 

The introduction of the requirement of 
a Medical Examination for all foreign 
camp counsellors, caused an otherwise 
smoothly working protocol to lurch and 
knock this past year. A personal meeting 
in early May with the Minister of Health 
and Welfare, Jake Epp, persuaded him to 
amend the cumbersome medical 
requirement. The whole process caused 
confusion for some camps. 

The Medical Examination is here to 
stay. A meeting in Ottawa in November 
has modified and simplified the process 
still further and it is now hoped that the 
new protocol can be made to work 
smoothly, both protecting the health of 
children while recognizing the desirability 
of Canadian camps engaging some foreign 
camp counsellors. 

Our aim must continue to be to hire 
Canadians first. Our practices are 
monitored by computers at the point of 
entry into Canada. We have enjoyed 
wonderful co-operation from Manpower, 
Immigration Canada over the years, 
through the good offices of Rick 
Morrison. 

Each camp can play a role in fostering 
this strong liaison by following carefully 
all of the steps in the protocol. Hiring 
foreign camp counsellors is a privilege 
granted, not a right of Canadian camps. 
The practices of each camp affects all 
camps. 

Barry Lowes, 
Chairman 

Le Detachement Special 
affects a (’immigration 

L’introduction de I’exigence de 
I’examen m&dical pour tour les 
conseillers strangers, a fait vaciller k 
un protocols qui marchait sans diffi¬ 
cult cette annee. Une entrevue en 
mai avec le ministre de la Sant& 
Publfque, Jake Epp, lui a persuadd 
d’amender la rdquisd medicale 
encombrante. Le processus a caus& 
de la confusion pourquelques camps. 

L’examen medical reste. Une 
entrevue k Ottawa en novembre a 
modlfid et a simplify le processus de 
plus et on peut esp6rer que le 
nouveau protocole peut marcher sans 
difficult en protegeant le sant6 des 
enfants et au mime temps en recon - 
naissant les avantages pour les 
camps Canadiens d’employer des 
conseillers Strangers. 

Notre but doit continuer k Stre 
d’engager premierement les 


Canadiens. Les ordinateurs 
contrdlent, du moment de I’entr&e 
dans Canada, nos pratiques. Nous 
avons joui de la cooperation du 
Manpower, I’immigration du Canada, 
par I’entremise de Rick Morrison. 

Chaque camp peut jouer un rdle k 
encourger le liaison vif en suivant 
soigneusement le protocol. C’est 
plutot un privilege qu’un droit de 
pouvoir engager les conseillers 
etrangers. Les pratiques de chaque 
camp touchent tous les autres. 

The Committee of 
French Language Camps 

We are working feverishly toward the 
publication of the second edition of Incef 
87 which you hear about regularly. 

At the January meeting, we will present 
a first copy of the language policies of the 
CCA /ACC. Therefore, we will soon be 
able to present a copy accepted by the 
members of the President’s Council. 

At the beginning of *87, we will send a 
questionnaire to French Language Camps 
which have been identified in order to 
discover their specific needs. We will 
therefore have the necessary tools to work 
out a realistic plan of action. 

Best wishes for the New Year. 

Gerard Bachand 

Commission Des Camps 
D’expression Frangaise 

Nous travaillons fdbrilement pour 
la publication de la deuxieme Edition 
de I’lncef 87 dont vous entendez 
parler reguli&rement. 

Nous pr&senterons, k la reunion de 
Janvier, une premiere version des 
politiques linguistiques de I’ACC/ 
CCA. Nous pourrons alors bientdt 
vous presenter une version acceptde 
par les membres du Conseil du 
President. 

Au d&but de I’annde 87, nous 
enverrons un questionnaire aux 
Camps francophones identifies 
jusqu'et present afin de connaitre 
leurs besoins sp6cifiques. Nous 
aurons alors les outils necessaires 
pour eiaborer un programme d’action 
real iste. 

Meilleurs voeux pour la nouvelle 
annee. 

Gerard Bachand 
Commission des camps 
d’expression frangaise 


Archives 

During the past year this committee has 
appealed to the Provincial Associations to 
send to Trent University copies of their 
newsletters, minutes, notices, etc., in 
order that they would constitute a 
permanent record of camping in Canada 
during 1986. 

The Archivist, Mrs. Bemadine Dodge, 
has received several of the brown 
envelopes commonly known as the 
“Brown Bag” and is most grateful for the 
contributions that have come in. 

It has always been difficult to make 
people aware that the events of today will 
form an interesting piece of history in two 
or three decades. 

Some Provincial Associations have 
their own archives where they collect 
printed material about their member 
camps and it is hoped that before long all 
Provincial Associations will establish their 
own archives committees. 

This committee urges each of our 
readers to preserve materials that could be 
of interest in the future. 

Bruno Morawetz, PHD 
Chairman 

Les archives 

Pendant I’annee pass&e ce comitd 
a lancd un appel aux associations 
provincielles pour envoyer des copies 
de leurs bulletins, de leurs comptes 
rendus, de leurs annonces, etc. k 
Trent University pour qu’ils 
constituent un rapport permanent du 
camping au Canada pendant I’annde 
1986. 

L’archiviste, Mme Bemadine 
Dodge, a regu plusieurs des 
enveloppes brunes (appel&es “les 
sacs bruns”) et elle est trds 
reconnaissante de ces contributions. 

II est toujours difficile de 
convaincre tout le monde que les 
dvdnements d’aujourd’hui seront 
I’histoire interessante aprds deux ou 
trois decennies. 

Quelques associations provinciel¬ 
les ont leurs propres archives oil on 
rassemble les documentations de ses 
camps, et on esp&re que bientdt 
chaque association provincielles 
dtablira un comite d’archives. 

Ce comite demande k chaque 
lecteur de conserver les docu¬ 
mentations qui peuvent etre 
int&ressantes k I’avenir. 



A TRIBUTE TO THE OLDEST 
CAMP IN CANADA! 

BIG COVE YMCA CAMP 
NOVA SCOTIA 

by Kelley Byrne 

President, Camping Association of Nova Scotia 
& Director, Big Cove YMCA Camp 


Un tribut au camp le plus veux de Canada 

Big Cove Camp en Nouvelle Ecosse 6talt 6tabli en 1891 
par le Y.M.C.A. de Plctou County. 1905, le Y.M.C.A. 
d’Halifax en a pris possession. Le programme de Big Cove 
donne de I’importance aux sports, aux activit&s nautiques, 
k P§tude de la nature, aux excursions de camping et k la 
connaissance des bois, et aussi aux programmes sp6ctaux 
comme le “Indian Ceremonial Night”. Bien des chefs 
importants des Maritimes faisaient partie auparavant du 
Big Cove Y.M.C.A. Camp pour les gargons et les jeunes 
filles. 

As far back as the late 1800’s, people in the Maritimes saw the 
value in providing opportunities for young people to live together 
and experience the outdoors. The Maritime YMCA, based in 
Truro, held the first Maritime Boys* Camp in 1891. This Camp 
quickly became an annual event, and the area of Big Cove in 
Pictou County became the gathering grounds for large numbers 
of boys and men. For shelter up on the grassy hills, floorless bell 
tents were used, all pitched together overlooking Merigomish 
Harbour. Though equipment was quite limited, an active YMCA 
program undoubtedly existed. Big Cove is very sheltered and 
provides a terrific swimming and canoeing area, while the 
countryside provides endless opportunities for exploration. 

About 1905, the site officially became known as Big Cove 
YMCA Camp and the property came under the jurisdiction of the 
Halifax YMCA. Groups of young men continued to camp at Big 
Cove each summer from all around the Province, and, in 1939, 
something very special happened — the girls got into the act at 
good ol* Big Cove. 

With the coming of the ladies, a dining hall was erected at this 
time. This was the first building of many to be built in the years to 
come. The dining hall, plus the rest, are still standing and used 
today. Big Cove generally involved about 100 boys per session 
and particular emphasis was placed on providing spaces for 
underprivileged youths. Much of the traditional programming 
included sports, crafts, hikes, swimming, and nature study. Also, 
much of the financial and leadership support came from the 
Halifax Y’s Men’s Club and New Glasgow Gyro Club. 


By the late 1940’s, the Camp was well established as a Boys 
Camp. Traditional pageants, which still carry on today, such as 
“Indian Ceremonial Night”, were eagerly anticipated and 
outtripping became a very significant highlight of the Camp 
program using sailboats, canoes and rowboats. Our Voyageur 
program dates back to this time, challenging older youth to 
develop expert outtripping, canoeing, axemanship and woodcraft 
skills. An open air Chapel became the setting for Sunday Services 
in keeping with the spiritual emphasis of the YMCA. 

In 1961, Big Cove, being primarily and traditionally a Boys 
Camp, was faced with the dilemma of whether it ought to open its 
gates for a 10-day Girls Camp. Well, it did, and the experience 
was a huge success; so much so that regular Girls sessions were 
offered in all the years to come. 

In the early seventies, it became apparent that well over 60 years 
of use by thousands of enthusiastic campers was beginning to 
show on the Camp facilities and some fairly major repairs were 
needed. So it was that, in 1976, regrettably the Camp was closed. 
Since that time, a renewal program has begun, and steadily Big 
Cove Camp is looking more and more like its old self. In 1980, 
Camp was reopened and growth has been steady ever since. 

Over the years, Big Cove has developed many leaders whose 
dedication and energetic support played a vital role in the Camp’s 
success. Many of the important leaders in the Maritimes today 
were once part of Big Cove’s family and can look back and say 
“Hey, I went there — what a time we had!” 

I am extremely proud to be the current Director of Big Cove 
Camp, which has had many fine leaders at the helm. These last 
two years have given me a very special opportunity to grow, learn, 
and love the people around me. I think we all know how unique 
and wonderful campers and staff can be, and Camp itself is just 
the best place to be to get the special hugs you’ve been waiting for 
all year long. Last summer I think I was nearly hugged to death 
and WOW! What a feeling! There’s a natural beauty in the people 
at Big Cove and a great beauty of the hills and forests and the 
cove. All these things make it the best place around to be and the 
best place to be around. 


8 



PERSONALITY PROFILE 


Le Profil de Personnalite 


MARY S. EDGAR 
1889 - 1973 

Mary S. Edgar was the Director of 
Glen Bernard Camp from 1922 - 1955, 
at which time she turned over the Camp 
to her nephew and niece-in-law, John 
and Barbara Gilchrist. 

She was President of the Ontario 
Camping Association from 1939 - 1942. 
She was the first editor of CANADIAN 
CAMPING MAGAZINE for many 
years beginning in 1949, and she was the 
Honourary President of the Canadian 
Camping Association from 1960 - 1973. 

Miss Edgar was the author of many 
camp-related books, “Wood-fire and 
Candle-light”, “Under Open Skies” 
and “Once there was a Camper”. 
CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
conducted this interview with Barbara 
Gilchrist, a Past-President of O.C.A. 
and John Gilchrist, Mary S. Edgar’s 
nephew, who is a Past Vice-President 
and Treasurer of O.C.A. 



MARY S. EDGAR 
1889-1973 

Mary S. Edgar etait directrice du 
Camp GJen Bernard pendant les 
annees 1922 & 1955, quand elle a livre 
le Camp a son neveu et sa femme, 
John et Barbara Gilchrist. 

Elle etait presidente de I’as- 
sociation des Camps de I’Ontario 
de 1939A 1942. Elle etait la premiere 
directrice de “Canadian Camping 
Magazine” pendant plusieurs annees 
commengant en 1949, et elle etait la 
presidente honorifique de 
I’association des Camps du Canada 
de 1960 a 1973. 

Mile Edgar etait auteur de plusieurs 
livres au sujet de camping, “Wood- 
fire and Candle-light”, “Under Open 
Skies” et “Once there was a 
Camper”. “Canadian Camping 
Magazine” a conduit cette entrevue 
avec Barbara Gilchrist, une ancienne 
presidente de I’A.C.O. et avec John 
Gilchrist, le neveu de Mary S. Edgar, 
qui est I’ancien vice-president et le 
tresorierde I’A.C.O. 


INTERVIEW WITH 
BARBARA & JOHN GILCHRIST 

CANADIAN CAMPING: John & Barb, thanks for taking time 
to talk about a truly great lady. Throughout her career, Mary S. 
Edgar was, unquestionably, the First Lady of Canadian 
Camping. She started the first Canadian Private Girls’ Camp, was 
the first Editor of Canadian Camping Magazine, the Honourary 
President of C.C.A. and on and on. What were the early 
indications that she would become our First Lady, John? 

JOHN GILCHRIST: Well, I guess it was her background in the 
YWCA when she was introduced to camping at YWCA Camp 
Oolahwan in Quebec. That was her first taste of Camping. 

CC: How did she get to Oolahwan from Sundridge, Ontario? 
What was the connection? It was before you were born, 
wasn’t it? 

JOHN: Yes, I am not sure . . . she got involved with the YWCA 
and I presume it was a natural thing to go into camping 
... coming from the north country. 

BARBARA GILCHRIST: If I may interrupt, I think she took a 
course in the Y in New York. She knew she wanted to be in 
recreation work ... girls’ work and ... 

CC: So she didn’t go to Oolahwan as a camper then ... 

BARB: No, Oh no, she went to . . . she took training for girls’ 
work in the Y in New York. 

CC: OK, let’s go back a step, then, to the really early be¬ 
ginnings before she was grown up . . . before the course 
in New York . . . before she went to Oolahwan. Tell us 
about Sundridge and the really early times. 

JOHN: Well, her parents were, I guess you would say today, 
very progressive for the small town of Sundridge. Her 
father was a general merchant in town and supplied the 
lumber mills and he ran for Member of Parliament, 


wasn’t elected the first time but was eventually the 
Member for Parry Sound District... 

CC: In the Provincial Government... 

JOHN: Yes, in the Provincial Government. . . MPP ... he was 
a great help to Mary S. when she came back from New 
York. She was quite determined that she wanted to start 
her own Camp. It wasn’t very difficult to pick a site 
because they used to picnic in the area that is now Glen 
Bernard Camp. There is a little Glen just off the beach 
and, as children, the Edgar girls played there. Her 
father helped her by buying a lot of lumber to build the 
early cabins. It was second rate lumber, I guess you 
would call it, with lots of knot-holes for the mos¬ 
quitoes, but she was able to erect buildings in 1922 and 
start off that very first year with not just tents but with 
cabins and a Main Lodge. 

CC: Were all the Edgar children daughters? What number 
was Mary? 

JOHN: Mary was the youngest, wasn’t she? 

BARB: No, I think Betty was the youngest... I think Mary was 
second ... your mother Margaret was first, then Mary, 
then Annie — who became a missionary in India and 
then Betty. Two of the Edgar daughters got married and 
raised families. Two had careers . . . Mary being the one 
whose career was in camping. 

CC: On the strength of her experiences at Oolahwan, she 
knew camping was what she wanted to do with her life. 
What was the property like on the other side of Lake 
Bernard from Sundridge? 

JOHN: It had been an old farm, a deserted farm and they were 
able to purchase the farm ... I am not sure how many 
acres they started with but, over the years, she event¬ 
ually acquired 590 acres as the Camp. 


9 









CC: So, in 1922, she started the first Canadian Private Girls* 
Camp, but let’s not get into Glen Bernard for a minute 
until we establish some other things that she was doing 
concurrently. For instance, she was involved with the 
CGIT — the Canadian-Girls-in-Training. And she 
provided some great leadership to the Girl Guides, too. 
Those things must have happened in the 20*s, didn’t 
they? 

JOHN: I am sorry I can’t answer that... whether she did that 
while she was operating the Camp during the winter time 
or not, I am not sure. 

BARB: Well, I think she was unique in following her dream of 
young ladies leaving their families and going into 
resident camping. Then a parallel philosophy was CGIT 
and a parallel philosophy was Girl Guides so that it was 
rather inevitable that Mary and CGIT leaders and Mary 
and Girt Guide leaders would have something in 
common and would turn to each other in camping. 

CC: Did she have any academic background... what did she 
do when she went to New York? What kind of training 
was that? 

BARB: Well, it was certainly not a University degree level but 
she had elementary education behind her to be able to 
enter into the New York Y program. 

CC: She had a connection with Havergal College too, didn’t 
she? Was she a student there? 

BARB: She was a student. 

JOHN: The four Edgar girls all graduated from Havergal. 

CC: Now that was quite something. 

JOHN: Quite something when you think of a small town of 600, 
that the four of them went from Sundridge to Toronto 
and to Havergal. 

CC: Was Havergal ever a source of Glen Bernard campers 
later on? 

BARB: Oh indeed it was. I think people understood there was 
a connection between Havergal and Glen Bernard, 
which was only a friendly and not necessarily a business 
arrangement. 

JOHN: In latter years, she spoke about Havergal reunions and 
so on. 

CC: In 1922 then, she hung up her shingle and she knew that 
a Girls’ Camp in Northern Ontario was to be her life’s 
work. Sundridge is how far from Toronto? 

JOHN: 175 miles. 

CC: And in those days, in 1922, that’s a long way for 
children to ... 

JOHN: To drive. It was nearly a day-and-a-half trip. 

CC: There wasn’t a lot of girls’ camping going on to that 
point. 

JOHN: No not private camping. 

CC: Parents entrusted their children to drive all that distance 
so their girls... 

BARB: Or put them on a train, because there was a Sundridge 
station and I think that a number of the campers arrived 
by train. 

JOHN: Most of them arrived by train. 

CC: Were there any stories told to you about that first year? 
Did she have any struggles to get it going? 

JOHN: I think her enrollment the first year was only about 
30 campers. 

BARB: It was certainly under 40... but over 30.,. 

JOHN: Some of those were... or one of those was my sister... 

I don’t imagine that she was a big paying proposition 

_for her... her niece..._ 


CC: This is your sister Betty? 

JOHN: Betty Seaborn, yes... 

BARB: Betty Gilchrist, yes... 

JOHN: And Dr. Mary Northway was one of her campers. I am 
not sure of the connection there but I know that 
“Granny”, as we call her, could certainly tell you about 
her interviews with Mary S. about going to Camp. 

CC: Whom do you call “Granny”? 

JOHN: Mary Northway. Aunt Mary’s first year must have been 
successful because she more than doubled her enroll¬ 
ment in the second year and, from then on, it just 
flourished. 

BARB: I think that very first summer ... it was so new and 
awesome to these youngsters to be in a camp setting, 
away from their parents and residing in these little 
cabins and lodges and learning wonders about outdoors. 
They were blazing a trail ... a lot of their programs 
were just simply paving paths through the woods that 
still exist to this day. 

The path from the Dining Room to their cabin, the path 
from the Dining Room to the Waterfront. That was 
pretty well their program, simply exploring and ex¬ 
perimenting and blazing a trail. 

CC: Mary S. Edgar was a real pioneer ... as were the 
campers . . . but the parents were pioneering too, 
weren’t they? 

BARB: In allowing their daughters to be away up north... 

JOHN: It took a lot of salesmanship in Toronto, or wherever, 
to convince parents to allow their daughters to ... and 
Mary did that. 

CC: Were there any techniques? Do you know anything she 
did? What was her secret? 

JOHN: My guess would be just her enthusiasm and her person¬ 
ality would do it. 

CC: When one thinks about Mary S. Edgar and Glen 
Bernard, “fireplaces” come to mind. Were there fire¬ 
places all over Camp? Did campers have a lot of lunch - 
outs, where they would cook their own meals on fire¬ 
places? 

BARB: Well that came later, a little later... 

JOHN: She did love fireplaces. There were 16 cabins in camp 
with fireplaces in them, but they were more for sitting 
around and telling stories and toasting marshmallows. 
As far as eating goes, there was a campsite which had 
many fireplaces and, when the weather was nice, they 
did eat out... the food was prepared in the kitchen ... 
there was a counter outside . . . the food was served 
from there. We carried that on with our new Dining 
Room. We had windows that opened and the food . •. 
there was a counter that was outside ... the food was 
served from there. So in the hot weather, we had every 
meal out, except for breakfast. But that wasn’t par¬ 
ticularly around fireplaces. 

CC: The campers didn’t do cooking every day... 

JOHN: No, there was the group that went to the campsite every 
day, but a small group ... 

CC: And did Mary S. Edgar build the fireplaces herself? 

JOHN: No, she had a very talented man in Sundridge, an old 
man called Angus Buchanan who was a stone mason. 
He built these fireplaces that are still standing today ... 
many of them. 

BARB: Leaping ahead to our Directorship, after Mary had 
retired to a restful cottage at the foot of the lake, she 
encouraged us to build a new Dining Room. My wish 
was to have a fireplace in the Dining Room. Some said 


10 




it was not a wise addition because it would become a 
place to throw paper refuse. Mary Edgar, bless her 
heart, agreed with me that a fireplace in the Dining 
Room would be a wonderful addition and there would 
be some of us around to see that a fire was built and 
lit and used as a fireplace should be. So, she dedicated 
or provided the fireplace for the 1966 new Dining Room 
and she was present at the dedication, when that fire was 
laid and lit for the first time. 

JOHN: Not only a fireplace but two fireplaces, back to back, 
one for the junior section and one for the intermediate 
and senior sections. 

BARB: Over the larger side of the Dining Room that accommo - 
dates older campers is a bronze plaque with a motto that 
Mary Edgar I think created and it has survived the 
years “The best of each for the good of all”. Our 
successor, Jocelyn Palm, happily keeps that bronzed 
plaque prominently displayed. 

JOHN: We had a plaque put on the fireplace to signify that it 
was donated to Glen Bernard Camp by Mary S. Edgar 
in 1966. 

CC: Would you say that the fireplaces and the atmosphere 
they created would be one of the traditions of Glen 
Bernard that people would remember? 

BARB: Most definitely, yes indeed, because it lent so much 
atmosphere to so many things that happened. Fire 
burning in the fireplace in the Main Lodge . . . fires in 
the Junior Section in an old building called the Hutch 
where Juniors listened to many a bedtime story before 
they went off to bed ... fireplaces in the Section lounges 
where every Section Staff were able to enjoy the 
benefits of an open fire . . . and always endless supplies 
of fireplace wood, too. 



of the Council Ring Fire, the Ojibwa name, Yehjen- 
hiosta (she who keeps the fires burning brightly) . . . 
Fire was so important and the lovely poem by John 
Oxenham ... I recited so many times with such feeling 
that I can’t help but remember it to this day even ten 
years after retiring from Glen Bernard, “Kneel always 
when you light a fire, kneel reverently and grateful be, 
for God’s unfailing charity. And, on the ascending 
flame, inspire, a little prayer that shall upbear the in¬ 
cense of your thankfulness, for this sweet grace of heat 
and light. For here, behold, a sacrifice for your delight. 
Kneel always when you light a fire, kneel reverently 
and grateful be, for God’s unfailing charity.*’ Anyway I 
just love that. 

CC: That is beautiful. Did you always light the fire at 
Council Ring . . . and before you ... did Mary S. Edgar 
do it? 

BARB: Actually, the handing over of the Directorship of Glen 
Bernard was done at the last Council Ring of the 
summer of 1955. As a complete surprise to me, Mary 
Edgar had been corresponding with Dawendini, the 
daughter of the Chief of the Mohawks in Brantford, 
and received the recommendation that Yehjenhiosta 
meant “she who takes over someone else’s job or she 
who keeps the fire burning brightly’’. So, to my surprise 
at the conclusion of the last Council Ring of Mary’s 
Directorship, she bestowed upon me her Indian 
costume, her beaded headband, her feather and the 
whole Directorship of Glen Bernard. I kept my Indian 
name as Chief of Council Ring from then on. Twice 
each Saturday night from our first year 1956 through to 
our last year, I was Yehjenhiosta directing the Council 
Ring so that I was able to recite “Kneel Always When 
You Light a Fire’’ twice each Saturday night for 8 
weeks of each summer. 

CC: That is how often Council Ring took place? 

JOHN: Once in the Junior Council Ring which was 7 o’clock 
and then again in the Senior Council Ring . . . two 
different sites ... at 8 o’clock. 

CC: Is that Council Ring located in the hollowed-out area 
near the waterfront? 




“Kneel always when you light a fire ... ” 


CC: What other kinds of things would you call “traditional’’ 
that were really Glen Bernard and a reflection of Mary 
S. Edgar and her philosophy? 

JOHN: I will start that because the old campers we talk to 
always say “Do you still have Council Ring?” Having 
said that I did not take part in the Council Ring but 
Barbara carried that tradition on so she should talk 
about it... 

BARB: Alright. As a camper, probably the ceremony that 
meant most to me, unknowing of the future and that I 
would ever be Director of the Camp, which remained 
with the best possible memories, was a Council Ring. So 
it was very important to me as the new Director of Glen 
Bernard to continue with the Council Ring Ceremony. 
Mary Edgar, who directed it as Ogimaqua (Friend of 
Children) — Ojibwa — bestowed upon me, as Chief 


BARB: The natural glen from whence Glen Bernard gets its 
name. Yes, that is where the older campers had their 
Council Ring and so much of Glen Bernard’s whole 
program philosophy was built around the Council Ring 
with the campers being elected as Chiefs. This was a very 
great privilege for a Senior camper to be eligible to be a 
Chief and be nominated by her fellow campers. They 
were given reference books to refer to, to learn of the 
various tribes in North America. Each Chief would 
select a name for her tribe, select a colour scheme, 
tribal song and yell, and this was a very great part of the 
first day or two of Camp. Then there was an initiation 
Council Ring followed by weekly Council Rings. The 
whole Camp program was built around tribal events, 
so that one was able to announce at the end of the 
summer a particular tribe superior to another, although, 
it usually levelled itself out. 


11 





CC: How do you suppose that got started? Did Mary S. 
Edgar do some reading or did... 

BARB: John can tell you more abont that because he re¬ 
members hearing about the visit of Pauline Johnson ... 

JOHN: Well, Pauline Johnson came to Sundridge to do a 
reading and stayed at Mary’s parents’ home which was 
above and beside the general store in Sundridge. 

CC: That was after Mary had the Camp? 

JOHN: No, it was when she was just a little girl and this in¬ 
fluenced her greatly. She was fascinated by Pauline 
Johnson and followed her career very closely after that. 
I think that was the start of it. 

BARB: Pauline Johnson’s book “The Flint and Feather” is 
always in Glen Bernard libraries, the lovely poem, “The 
Song My Paddle Sings” and other beautiful poems. 
Also, Pauline Johnson’s type of writing inspired Mary 
to write legends, Indian legends of her own, built 
around Lake Bernard and the tribes of Glen Bernard 
which, in fact, were make-believe bat she made them 
sound the real thing in her story. 

CC: That takes us to another aspect of her many talents . . . 
writing. There must have been some traditional things 
that happened at Glen Bernard that grew out of her 
writing of poems and her storytelling and so on. 

JOHN: Well she certainly ... the Tadger Tales, which she did 
not write, she certainly embellished a great deal and they 
became quite a part of Glen Bernard’s program not only 
in reading them but in acting them out at night and 
making a play out of them. She received permission to 
use the Tadger Tales in her own way. 

BARB: I think they were written originally by Jane Ward and 
Mary bought the rights to embellish them or do with 
them as she wished. So always a part of Glen Bernard 
summers was a Tadger Night which in fact almost took 
on the aura of Hallowe’en... 

JOHN: She had written before this and, when she was in the Y 
in New York, she had written plays. I don’t know where 
the writing talent came from whether Havergal could 
tell you or not, I don’t know... 

CC: Former Glen Bernard campers have talked about their 
visits to the Wigwam and asking Mary for poems that 
she had written . . . would she please recite one of her 
poems? Where was the Wigwam and what was that all 
about? 

JOHN: The Wigwam was her cabin. It was right down by the 
waterfront and it was between the Junior Camp, 
“Bunny Camp” it was called in those days, and the 
other Camp. 

BARB: Breakfast parties, tea parties •.. 

JOHN: It had a comer fireplace . . . and there was a bench 
beside it where Mary would sit and tell stories and all 
types of legends, Indian legends. How many of them 
were her own fertile imagination or she had read about 
was hard to say. 

CC: What a marvellous way to have an influence on the 
growth and experience of campers! Just terrific! John, 
your mother was Mary S. Edgar’s older sister. When did 
you come into the picture . . . and Barb, you too . . . 
when did the two of you come into the Glen Bernard 
picture? 

JOHN: Well, because my mother came from Sundridge, we 
have always summered at Sundridge. I was invited to 
stay with Aunt Mary as a nine year old or eight year old 
and I would grab a tape for the maintenance man and 
help him or carry the hammer, or whatever, so I have 
fond memories of when they built the New Lodge in 


JOHN: 


JOHN: 


BARB: 

JOHN: 


1932.1 would be 10 or so. Hugo Grimm was the man’s 
name and I spent a good deal of time either at the 
cottage with my parents or being a nuisance around 
Glen Bernard. When I got a little too old for that, I 
came back into the picture as the guide of canoe- 
trips. I had been to Camp Layolomi and Camp 
Temagami and I had done tripping with a group from 
Wychwood Park with a Captain Matthews; we had 
canoe-tripped extensively for a few years so I thought I 
knew it all and went to Glen Bernard as a guide. I had 
three wonderful summers guiding canoe-trips and 
discovered that girls can have a lot more fun on canoe- 
trips than boys and they don’t have to go 20 miles every 
day and so on but... 

CC: When was that? 

JOHN: 1939 & 40... 

CC: Barb, were you already at Glen Bernard then? 

BARB: I was at Glen Bernard and had been since I was twelve 
years old. I had progressed through wonderful 
summers, always in August. I was an August camper. 

JOHN: In those days, most of the campers came for two 
months. 

BARB: I was fortunate to have a dear aunt with a cottage on 
Georgian Bay where I spent my Julys, but I enjoyed my 
August part of my summer at Glen Bernard. When I 
reached the age of senior camper, I think I was 17 years 
old, I arrived as an August camper to learn that a day or 
two later I was selected to join 5 July campers on a very 
important canoe trip that was to go from Glen Bernard 
to Algonquin Park down to the Taylor Statten Camp 
area. Our guide would be John Gilchrist, the Director’s 
nephew. I was delighted, having always loved canoe- 
tripping, to be selected to join this trip. And that’s 
where I met John Gilchrist. 

JOHN: Helen Stewart was one of those campers, too. 

BARB: It was a very memorable trip ... we had an excellent 
counsellor whose personality was such that, in rain or 
shine, we seemed to have fun and epjoy ourselves on 
that momentous, one of a kind, first ever, Glen Bernard 
trip that was gone for a whole ten days, even over a 
Sunday, and to compensate for our missing our Sunday 
Service in Glen Bernard Camp, Mary Edgar provided 
for our counsellor, Elio Gibson, a Church Service that 
we were to observe at 11 o’clock on Sunday morning 
wherever we were. As it so happened on that particular 
Sunday, we stopped on a portage and unfortunately it 
was pouring rain. As our counsellor, Elio, distributed 
the various poems and prayers that were to make up the 
Service, the first poem to be read began with “We are 
content...” which we certainly were not. We were wet 
and we were cold but we had enough respect for Mary 
Edgar and her wishes that we followed the Sunday 
Service for 11 o’clock ... the first time ever that a 
group of Glen Bernard campers were not properly in 
Camp, but I must say a few giggles went around the 
circle before we became serious again and continued 
with the Service. 

JOHN: The canoe-trip ended with a delightful lunch at Camp 
Wapomeo with Adele Ebbs and her mother, Mrs. 
Taylor Statten, and then we went on to Smoke Lake 
and spent the final night with Mary Northway’s parents 
at Nominigan. 

CC: And what year was that? 

JOHN: 1939... 

CC: 1939 and, on that trip Barb, you made up your mind 
that you were going to marry John and take over the 
Camp... and live happily ever... 


12 







BARB: 

JOHN: 

BARB: 

CC: 

JOHN: 


BARB: 

JOHN: 

CC: 

BARB: 


No, you are going too quickly, you’re going too fast. 
But I did discover that where else can you learn so 
thoroughly and deeply about another person than on a 
canoe-trip? I liked John Gilchrist’s sense of humour 
and I liked his love of the outdoors and his ability to 
take care of a group of campers. 

Barb was on staff at Glen Bernard and, even after we 
were married when I was in the army, she went back to 
Glen Bernard and headed the Intermediate Section. 

That was the summer of 1944, I think, when you were 
overseas. 

When we think about Mary S. Edgar, the word that 
comes readily to mind is “creative”; she was so creative. 
Do you have any insight into how those qualities of 
creativity were developed? 

She was eternally young, she never was old. As you 
know, maybe we will talk about it later, she spoke at a 
C.C.A. Conference at Geneva Park at age 83. She felt 
strongly that children should be children and believe in 
fairies and make-believe ... she was always dreaming 
up special programs where there was a “Hunt-Your- 
Breakfast” or a “Tadger Night” or a “Farmer Brown’s 
Picnic”. 



Keynote Address at Geneva Park, 1973. 


Those were magic, magic times and never ever did a 
special night depart from Glen Bernard shores, be it 
hiking or horseback riding or canoeing or boating or 
whatever, that we didn’t return to a perfect closing of 
her lovely sleepy-time poetry to a firelight or lantern 
light or candle light, with hot chocolate, all romantic 
and memorable and ... 

In latter years, this was reflected in her painting. She 
never had much time to paint while she was directing 
Glen Bernard, although she did have her painting 
teacher up at Camp, Mrs. Tonell. But, in her early 
paintings, every tree was perfect. . . there were no mis- 
formed trees . . . the sky was always blue. Later on, 
her paintings became a little more realistic. Some trees 
did have broken branches . . . there were clouds in the 
sky ... but she saw beauty in everything. 

Thankfully, she documented some of these things and 
she was published in a whole lot of ways. 

All the wonderful inspirational talks she gave in chapel 
touched, so deeply, everyone who experienced them . . . 
and they meant so much. On Visitors’ Day, Parents 
wouldn’t dream of missing a Sunday Service to hear 
Mary Edgar’s message. I know I personally always 
gained so much from her messages that dealt with 
nature, with friendship, with sharing, with contributing. 
So I am sure people must have said to her, “Mary, that 
message meant so much to me, you should write it 
down.” I think this inspired her to begin writing, 
although I am not sure what prompted her to write 


“Wood-Fire and Candlelight”, which was mostly for 
... about fairies and elves and imagination and . .. 

CC: It is a book of Poems... not Chapel talks ... 

BARB: Really for younger children. But she wrote “Under 
Open Skies” because she was aware that we would be 
eventually taking over Glen Bernard and she explained 
to us that she was really writing this down to help us 
with our Chapel Services. Mabel Jamieson was with her 
at Camp, that summer, and Mary persuaded Mabel to 
be her companion through her writing of “Under Open 
Skies” ... to be her critic and correct her grammar . . . 
make suggestions on its format and . . . throughout her 
writing of the book she said, “You will find this useful 
in continuing my thoughts and my philosophies to 
future campers.” 

CC: So “Under Open Skies” was really a compilation of 
Chapel talks that Mary S. Edgar had given to campers 
in the outdoor chapel at Glen Bernard? 

BARB: The experience from her life that she felt had a message 
or a lesson ... that would be useful for campers. 

CC: The whimsical book of poems entitled “Once There 
Was a Camper” ... 

BARB: Silly things about children who, when asked to soap the 
pot, soaped it on the inside which of course made the 
contents unusable ... 

CC: Some campers still do that today ... 

BARB: And other such things as the gum-chewing camper, the 
dieting camper. One of my favourites was that question¬ 
ing camper who wondered why the water was wet and 
why the sun rose in the morning and why, why, why . . . 
until her poem ended with “. . . and she was changed to 
a spooky question mark” ... 

CC: The one I recall was the camper who caught a fish that 
was 12 inches long and he couldn’t figure out how to fry 
it because the frying pay was only 9 inches wide ... so 
he threw the fish back into the lake... 

BARB: Exactly, that was the kind of concept she ... but, for all 
her child-like imagination and her delightful view of 
life and so on, she was really a very astute business¬ 
woman. Very astute and, being a maiden lady and 
perhaps dependent on wiser business heads, she did give 
credit to and found good advice from her brothers-in- 
law. Her sister, Betty, married Herbert MacTavish and 
her sister, Margaret, my mother-in-law, married 
George Gilchrist. George and Herbert were tremendous 
assets to her in her business. 

CC: Her creativity and her writing talents must have con¬ 
tributed to her decision to start CANADIAN CAMP¬ 
ING MAGAZINE. She was the first editor of 
CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE . . . 

BARB: That kind of role would be sheer pleasure to her because 
I think she really enjoyed her writing, while some 
people perhaps knit or cook or stitch or paint whatever 
... oh she did paint too, but I think she felt therapy and 
great pleasure in writing. It wasn’t a chore at all to her. 
It just came to her, naturally. 

CC: Her contributions to the Camping Associations were 
many and varied ... the Canadian Camping Associ¬ 
ation, the Ontario Camping Association ... 

JOHN: Yes, she was in with the founding fathers, as we say . . . 

I should mention the six of them. There was Taylor 
Statten, Ferna Halliday, A. L. Cochrane, Mary 
Hamilton, Ernie Chapman ... 

CC: And Mary S. Edgar ... 

JOHN: And Mary S. Edgar. They got together and decided they 
wanted to form a Camping Association as a vehicle 


13 





where they could exchange ideas and learn things from 
one another ... and it grew from there. 

CC: That was the Ontario Camping Association. Taylor 
Statten was the first President, in 1933. And the 
second President was... 

JOHN: Mary S. Edgar, which was many years later. • • 

CC: Yes I think she was O.C.A. President in 1939. Barb, 
that was the year you decided to marry John... 

JOHN: No... That was when we met... 

BARB: No I hadn’t really decided then, no... 

CC: Miss Edgar was President of the Ontario Camping 
Association, she was the Honourary President of the 
Canadian Camping Association for a long while, as well 
as Editor of the CANADIAN CAMPING 
MAGAZINE. We had talked a little earlier, John, 
about the Canadian Camping Association Conference 
at Geneva Park in 1973. That was really significant 
because, as you say, she was 83 years old then and gave a 
stirring keynote address... 

JOHN: She had written three poems that were as lively and as 
up-to-date as anything you could ever see. •. everyone 
was really impressed with her that night.. • 

BARB: As far as speaking went, we were very dependent upon 
her and feeling very inadequate in filling her shoes in the 
Chapel-Message Department. She was so generous and 
so gracious about returning to Glen Bernard once each 
camp period, to deliver a “Mary S. Message” in the 
Chapel Service • . . once in July and once in August. I 
think parents timed their visits to their children to be 
able to hear Mary Edgar again give her messages . • . 

JOHN: She would come over and play games with the Juniors 
and tell them stories on a rainy day and this was a good 
many years after she had given up the Camp ... but she 
never really gave it up. 

BARB: She always encouraged everything John and I wanted to 
do at Glen Bernard. 

CC: In Mary Edgar’s life, who played a significant role . . . 
people she relied on, people who relied on her, people 
she guided, people who guided her. We have talked 
about her diligent parents . . . and about Pauline 
Johnson a little bit.. . and Mary Northway a little bit. 
There must be others... 

JOHN: If you start talking staff, there are so many people like 
Mary Northway, Flora Morrison, Enid Walker. She had 
a knack of attracting leaders who were people-oriented 
and they became very faithful to Mary S. which is one of 
the reasons any Camp is good. She was able to draw that 
type of person and she always found the best in every¬ 
body. If a person couldn’t fulfil the job that Mary had 
hired them for, she would find some other job .. . she 
was a most resourceful person. During the war, she 
couldn’t get horses shipped up to Camp, so she went out 
and found horses around Sundridge. I hate to think 
what they looked like but we had riding that year. She 
was able to overcome all the difficulties that were 
thrown in her way. I know she influenced many Glen 
Bernard campers who went on to become Camp 
Directors . . . Helen Stewart at Camp Wahcahmie, 
Jane Coventry at Camp Waseosa, Joyce Bertram at 
Camp Ouareau, June Labbett at Camp Oconto, Mary 
Liddell at Miakonda... she obviously influenced some 
of these people and she had profound impact on Barb 
and me and our Camp philosophy. Even into the 
current era... 

CC: And the current Director of Glen Bernard . . . Jocelyn 
Palm. 


JOHN: She and Jocelyn . •. Jocelyn came recommended from 
Dais Gass’ Memphremagog. Mary S. was a good friend 
of Dais and she and Joe became close, close friends 
right away... 

BARB: So we know, in our heart of hearts, Mary S. is delighted 
that Jocelyn is the owner and Director of Glen Bernard; 
she couldn’t be happier I am sure. 

CC: Others? 

BARB: Others . • • when you ask who might have influenced 
her, I always think she was almost born doing the in¬ 
fluencing somehow... 

JOHN: I know that when we took over Glen Bernard in 1956, 
it was the senior staff that stayed on that had worked 
for her that were the Godsend to us to get us launched 
in our first few years. 

CC: The same fascinating trend occurred when you turned 
over Glen Bernard to Jocelyn Palm... 

JOHN: Fortunately, Jocelyn retained most of the very loyal 
staff and still has some of them 10 years later, which 
is amazing.. • 

BARB: I think all due credit goes to Jocelyn; she was very con - 
scientious about keeping the continuity. In other words, 
our senior campers who anticipated being invited to 
train as counsellors were given every consideration by 
Jocelyn that they would be accepted to train if this is 
what they wanted to do and, by the same token, those 
who had trained our last year were given every con¬ 
sideration to be hired on as counsellors. Any who had, 
through our latter years, worked their way up to senior 
positions, Joe placed them into senior positions so that 
no one was bypassed or overlooked and all were able to 
join in the continuity. 

CC: What was Mary Edgar’s leadership style? Was she up¬ 
front twirling the baton and leading the way or was she 
quietly in the background? How did she develop the 
leadership role in others that were growing up through 
Camp? What kind of a leader was she? 

JOHN: I think she was certainly not up-front pushing . . . she 
led by her example ... her quiet leadership style was 
respected by those whom she led and they wanted to 
please her... 

BARB: And were in awe of being allowed to be employed by 
her. This meant more to them, I think, than gain, 
remuneration or whatever ... they were just pleased to 
be in her summer family for whatever number of years 
or seasons. She was ... her leadership was very quiet 
and certainly not flamboyant and up-front strong... 

JOHN: She was a forceful speaker and the Camp Director. 

There was never any doubt about that and she did have 
program ideas, of course, that she... 

BARB: Indeed yes, she had an enthusiasm about her that just 
carried everybody along beautifully. If we were 
awakened to the third rainy day in a row, she had a way 
of arriving enthusiastically at breakfast with a huge box 
of old Christmas cards and wished everybody a Merry 
Christmas at their breakfast place, after which we were 
only too glad to launch into making presents for each 
other and, by the end of the day, we had decorated a 
tree, dressed a Santa Claus, created reindeer and 
finished having Christmas Day in July. She was just 
that kind of person and by the same token on a beauti¬ 
fully still, calm quiet morning, she . . . her mind would 
turn to all those shells she had brought back from 
Florida. This was the perfect morning to strew them 
along the beach and then write a lovely poem for the 
Juniors when they awakened ... all they had to do was 
go down to the beach where they would find that the 


14 



mermaid had left treasures for them all along the shore. 
Those little Juniors would remember that experience 
throughout their whole lives, probably. 

CC: And it was the simple, creative use of seashells she had 
brought home from Florida... 

BARB: Exactly, and she just . . . this idea would just come to 
her ... the day would somehow present itself as being 
the perfect day for that to happen. Of course, the 
Juniors would go home with treasures of shells they had 
picked up on the beach and • . . they remembered . . . 
that morning the mermaid came to Glen Bernard and 
left shells all along the shore. This is the way her mind 
worked ... it was just incredible. 

CC: It is legendary that she was always noted for doing 
things for others. Did she ever do anything for herself? 

JOHN: I suppose you might say painting was for herself, 
although she would give her paintings away. No, she... 

BARB: Travelling... 

CC: She did a lot of travelling, didn’t she? 

JOHN: She went around the world with her parents in 1921. 
She became very enthralled with Japan and made some 
close friends there. She had Japanese people at Camp 
and there are still cabins bearing their names. It was 
devastating to her when the war with Japan broke out. 
But even at home in the town of Sundridge, she was a 
quiet, effective leader. It was she who decided they 
needed a Community Centre, she who made the first 
contribution, she who went after the Ontario Govern¬ 
ment to get the money to help. There was a site on the 
lake called High Rock ... she bought the 5 Vi acres of 
property with some money she had made on the stock 
market and then spent a great deal of time and money 
to have it landscaped . •. stonework put in ... steps so 
the older people could get down . . . fireplaces ... a 
gateway with a plaque commemorated to her parents, 
who had settled in Sundridge in 1853.. • then, in 1967, 
she turned the whole park over to the town of Sundridge 
and Strong Township. 

CC: This was her Centennial Project... 

JOHN: Yes, through the cooperation of the cottagers and the 
town people and Glen Bernard Camp, we had a big 
pageant to open the park. I presented Mary S. with a 
centennial coin box ... a beautiful thing ... I am a 
coin collector and I thought it would be a nice gift for 
Mary S. That evening, at her cottage, she was looking 
at it and she said, “My, that is pretty, I wonder who I 
can give it to”. This was typical of everything she ever 
did. If you had something, it was to be given away. 

CC: Speaking about you being a coin collector, John, on the 
first of July 1967, Mary collected one coin that we know 
about and that was the Centennial Medal — 

JOHN: Yes, and it was presented to her by Dr. Mary Northway 
which was only fitting ... do you want me to read 
this... 

CC: Please do. There weren’t many Canadians who re¬ 
ceived the Centennial Medal for their contribution to 
Canada. 

BARB: “Centennial Award on March 9, 1968, on the occasion 
of the closing banquet of the Ontario Camping Associ¬ 
ation, a Centennial Medal is presented to Miss Mary S. 
Edgar in recognition of her service to Camping”, the 
citation was read by Dr. Mary L. Northway. 

CC: It was mentioned that she travelled for herself, but it 
really wasn’t for herself, was it? She brought from 
Japan some ideas that she incorporated into Camp. She 
did the same thing when she went to Florida, brought 


back those shells so they could be included in a pro¬ 
gram ... 

BARB: On her trips west, she learned about the customs of the 
Indians • • • and the peace pipe •. • and initiations and 
challenges and all those ceremonies that she introduced 
into Glen Bernard’s Council Ring Ceremony. These 
things stayed forever throughout her Chiefdom in the 
Council Ring. Then, in my years too, we continued on 
the tradition of those parts of real Indian Council Rings 
that she studied and learned about when she was 
travelling west. 

CC: We glossed over the part about the hymns she wrote 
for the Anglican Church hymnary, but Mary S. Edgar 
was famous for her one hymn which was the Glen 
Bernard Camp Hymn. 

JOHN: Yes, “God Who Touchest Earth With Beauty”. She 
wrote the words and the music was supplied by Magis¬ 
trate Jones, James Edmund Jones, whose cottage is on 
Lake Bernard. He was the founder of the Aura-Lee 
Boys’ Club. I still get letters from places wanting to use 
that hymn ... I just had one from Michigan not long 
ago asking permission. 

BARB: Many a time, as a closing prayer at the conclusion of the 
Council Ring, I used it because its thoughts are so 
beautiful about the straightness of the pine trees ... let 
my thoughts be upright. It was translated into many 
languages but, in Japan, the pine tree is anything but 
straight. It is very crooked, so they had to insert the 
name of a tree that is straight to make sense. She spoke 
to me about that and she said she didn’t consider this 
world-known hymn that was translated into many 
languages to be a wonderful achievement that she had 
written. She said, “You know, I wrote it in such a short 
time the words seemed to come from a power above and 
all I had to do was write them down as I heard them”. 
It was just amazing that she made it sound so simple 
how those words flowed out of her pen. I marvelled at 
how simple the words were but how much they meant 
and she didn’t take credit for it being a marvellous 
piece of literature at all. She just said that something 
told her what to write. 

CC: But it is that... a marvellous piece of literature... and 
it is such a beautiful hymn. It must have created a lot of 
magnificent memories for campers at Glen Bernard. 

BARB: Yes there are a great many married ladies today, whose 
past includes Glen Bernard, who found it important that 
the Glen Bernard Hymn be included in their wedding in 
some way ... at their wedding ceremony. I know I 
did •.. certainly it was very important to us ... we felt 
probably more privileged than anyone to include the 
Camp Hymn in our Service. 

CC: What made this little wisp of a lady so dynamic, so 
charismatic, so lovable? 

BARB: Her childlike sense of wonder, would that be it... 

JOHN: Yes, I am sitting here thinking about it . . . that is a 
pretty tough question to answer ... I would say she 
was never old, she always thought young, she accepted 
computers and the jet airplane and always encouraged 
us and anyone else who was endeavouring to do some¬ 
thing new and different. She had great interest in all 
her great-nieces and nephews and still had that fairy- 
like touch with our grandchildren or with my sister’s 
children that she had at Camp with the Juniors 40 
years ago... I don’t know how you stay that young... 
it would be wonderful if you could bottle it. 

BARB: Well, I know for our children she was so generous about 
Hallowe’en, well ahead of time, it being an imaginative 


15 



time and a costume time. She would enquire if they had 
made up their minds how they wanted to be dressed for 
a particular Hallowe’en... it was very important to her 
to be in our home on the 31st of October either to assist 
our children in getting dressed or in opening the door 
and seeing what the neighbourhood children were 
wearing . . • this was all of great interest to her and, 
many a time if they hadn’t decided, she would tell them 
stories and talk to them and even arrive with her version 
of a costume. This was a great delight to her to create 
something they might wear to go out for Hallowe’en. I 
think this kind of speaks about her imagination, about 
her delight in children and their imagination .. • 

CC: She was lovable and, generally if people are lovable, 
it is because they are loving... 

BARB: That is true • •. being a maiden lady, with no children of 
her own, she was mother or auntie or Aunt Mary to 
all of them, so interested in their ambitions and their 
dreams and their interests. 

JOHN: One little story . . . after she retired, we had a retire¬ 
ment party for her and I think there were 250 or 300 at 
the reception. She named everyone, but two, which is an 
amazing feat because, at that time, she was well into her 
70’s. • • and she called them all by name... 


BARB: As well as where they came from . • . and their sisters 
and brothers and something about the family... a very 
remarkable lady. Mind you, she was a maiden lady so 
that her husband, her children were all her campers in 
the Camp and her staff people . . . she devoted all her 
loving and her interests and her thoughts towards that 
... she made all of her sisters’ families her family. 

JOHN: She had an uncanny knack of bringing out the best in 
everyone. They were extremely important to her and she 
made them feel important. 

CC: Once there was a camper and what a camper she was! 

BARB: Yes, indeed. 


NOTE: 


Much more of Mary S. Edgar, both 
literally and figuratively, is contained 
in the C.C.A. Publication, “Legacy to 
a Camper” written by our C.C.A. 
Immediate Past-President, Jocelyn 
Palm. “Legacy to a Camper” is avail¬ 
able at the C.C.A. Bookstore. 


Between 
The Covers 



Where the Sidewalk Ends is a fun collection of poems that 
would delight and entertain any youngster or adult for that 
matter. Shel Silverstein is a talented cartoonist who has 
accompanied his poems with drawings that clearly depict the 
characters he writes about. 

This hard cover book tells tales of Lazy Jane who waits and 
waits and waits for it to rain so that she can have a drink of water, 
of a magical eraser that erases a non-believer, a hippo sandwich 
that sounds delicious but the problem is how to bite into it, and 
stubborn Melinda Mae who says she can eat a whale ... so she 
does! 

A great book for a counsellor to borrow from your library. 
With a small group of campers, the importance of seeing the 
drawings is possible as the poems are read aloud. 

Where the Sidewalk Ends, Harper & Row, 176 p., 1974. Hard¬ 
cover. Cost: $17.95 (members) 

$21.55 (non-members) 

INVITATION 

If you are a dreamer, come in, 

If you are a dreamer, a wisher, a liar, 

A hope-er, a pray-er, a magic bean buyer ... 

If you ’re a pretender, come sit by my fire 
For we have some flax-golden tales to spin . 

Come in! 

Come in! 

Books listed in “Between the Covers” are available from the 
Canadian Camping Association Bookstore. 

Orders that are $20.00 or less must be prepaid with $2.00 added 
for shipping. Contact the C.C.A. office by mail or phone: 
Canadian Camping Assoication 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
(416) 781-4717 

Publications Committee — C.C.A. 


Entre 

Les Lignes 


Where the Sidewalk Ends est une collection amusante 
de poSmes qui enchanterait et qui donnerait de joie k 
n’importe qui. Shel Silverstein est une caricaturiste douce 
qui a ajoutS & ses po&mes des dessins qui reprSsentent 
clairement les personnages dont il Scrit. 

Ce livre raconte les histoires de “Lazy Jane" qui attend 
le pleuvoir pour qu’elle puisse boire de I’eau, d’une gomme 
magique qui efface un non-purtisan, d’un sandwich d’un 
hippopotame qu’on trouvera dSlicieux si on pourra 
dScouvrir comment le manger, et de Melinda Mae, 
obstin&e, qui dit qu’elle peut manger une baleine.. .done 
elle lefait! 

C’est un livre fantastique pour faire disponible dans 
votre biblioth&que. II est possible pour un petit groupe de 
campeurs de voir les dessins comme on lit k haute voix les 
poSmes. 

Where the Sidewalk Ends, Harper & Row, 176 p., 1974. 

CoOte: $17.95 (membres) 

$21.55 (non-membres) 


MY BEARD 

My beard grows to my toes, 
I never wears no clothes, 

/ wraps my hair 
Around by bare, 

And down the road / goes. 


Les livres figurant dans “Entre les lignes” sont disponibles 
de la librairle de (’association des Camps du Canada. 

Les commandes de $20.00 ou de moins doivent St re payes 
d’avance, accompagnes de $2.00 pour le poste. 
Mettez-vous en rapport avec le bureau de I’ACC par le 
poste ou par la t&ISphone: 

Canadian Camping Association 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 
Toronto, Ont. M5M 3Z1 
(416) 781-4717 



16 








UNDER OPEN SKIES A ciel ouvert 


The C.C.A./A.C.C. magazine is proud to devote these few 
pages to the poetry, prose and drawings of Mary S. Edgar. 

Mary was the author of three delightful, inspirational books 
which continue to enhance the camping community and the lives 
of the children in our camps. Below are excerpts from each of her 
publications. Mary’s messages are eternal. 

Taken from Wood-Fire and Candle-Light, published in 1945 by 
The MacMillan Company of Canada Limited. 


La revue de I’ACC/CCA est fiere de consacrer ces 
quelques pages a la poesie, a la prose et aux dessins de 
Mary S. Edgar. 

Mary etait auteur de trols livres enchantants qui 
suscitent I’inspirations et qui continuent & augmenter le 
communite de camping et les vies des enfants dans nos 
camps. En-dessous se trouve des extraits de chacune de 
ses publications. Les messages que Mary a communiques 
sont eternels. 



Mi 



Friendship 

If life held nothing else 
But the gift of friends; 

If but one friend were true 
Until the long trail ends; 

If two kind eyes looked deep, 

And clearly saw in you 
The best and worst there was, 

Yet still believed you true; 

If even one strong hand 

Should reach to you and give 
With understanding clasp 
A braver will to live; 

Life would be rich indeed 

And more than worth its tears, 
For friendship still abides 
Beyond the farthest years. 


A Legacy to a Camper 

If I had power to make this will, 

I would bequeath to you 

The child-like sense of wonder 
To last the long years through. 

Wonder — the gift of magic sight, 
To see with eager eyes 

Each miracle of beauty 
In forest, lake and skies: 

The scarlet flames of autumn, 

The tender shades of spring, 

The luna moth unfolding 
Her gossamer green wing; 

The clear call of the hermit thrush, 
The crescent moon swung low, 

The sunset from a hilltop, 

The Firelight’s ruddy glow. 

A legacy of wonder! 

Could you but guess its worth! 

No other precious dower 

Would so transform the earth. 





The Upward Road 

I will follow the upward road today, 

I will keep my face toward the light, 

I will think kind thoughts as I go my way, 

I will do what I know is right. 

I will look for the flowers by the side of the road, 
I will laugh and love and be strong, 

I will try to lighten another’s load 
This day as I fare along. 


17 





Taken from Once There Was A Camper, 
published in 1970 by G.R. Welch 
Company Limited. 

THE DREAM-CAMP 



Once there was a camper 
Who claimed, “When I am grown 
I'm going to have a super camp 
With ideas of my own.” 

“There’ll never be a rising bell. 
No rules! We’ll sleep till noon, 
We’ll prowl about till mid-night 
And swim by silvery moon. 

“Parents will be urged to send 
Food hampers by express. 

So campers can indulge each night 
In banquets more or less.” 

She out lined her prospectus 
To each wide-eyed cabin-mate. 
“This camp will be progressive 
And strictly up-to-date.” 

“I have to count on each of you 
As a true and loyal friend 
To have a dozen children 
And all of them to send.” 


Postscript 

She’s produced four sturdy children. 
Each one a little scamp! 

“I wish they were interned,” she sighs. 
In a strict no-nonsense camp.” 


DIETING 

Once there was a camper 
Whose counselor heard her say 
To the campers at her table 
In the dining room one day: 

“The meals we get are very good. 

I’m really quite surprised! 

And specially relieved to know 
The milk is paralyzed. 

“I’m going to lose a lot of weight, 

I’m dieting,” she said. 

“I never take potatoes 
Nor eat a slice of bread.” 

Yet strange to say that camper-child 
Ate cakes and tarts and buns, 
Puddings, pies and dough-nuts— 
Adding weight by tons. 

First in line for tuck-shop, 

For “seconds” always there; 

Wider grew her waist-line 
With every bill-of-fare. 

Her counselor sent this message home: 
“Your child has gained in weight. 

We hope you will not mind it 
If we ship her home by freight.” 


A SALUTE 

Once there was a camper, 

(A thousand I would guess) 

No tales have I about them 
But I love them none the less. 

Straight and lithe young bodies 
Tanned with summer sun, 

Ready for adventure 
Eager for its fun. 

Keen to learn new camping skills, 
Quick to lend a hand. 

Lavish with their friendship 
A loyal, happy band. 

Serious they are at times 
To work, to will, to dream; 
Facing up to Life’s high trail 
With wistful eyes agleam. 

Fond salute I give you 
Ere these rhymes are done. 

On your separate pathways 
God bless you everyone! 


-SHiP by F*ci*HT“ 

CoiJl. Eef TAitSipe, 
/fftWptE vrith gone 



£<U t 




Taken from Under Open Skies, published in 1955 by Clarke, 
Irwin & Company Limited. 

Our Task 

We may not lead the orchestra, 

Nor play first violin, 

Nor see our name high-lighted 
Upon the silver screen. 

Ours may not be the picture 
Within the gallery hung. 

Nor may we write the song hit 
To be by millions sung. 

But if we do our special job 
In an extra special way, 

The inner satisfaction 

Will immeasurably repay. 

For honest effort in a task 
Its own reward will show, 

Though we win no shiny medal, 

Deep within a pride will glow. 

For each of us inherits 
A gift that is our own, 

And the world will be the poorer 
If our work is left undone. 

May we have a vision, 

And a purpose strong and true, 

To be a worthy craftsman, 

In the work that’s ours to do. 


A CAMP VESPER HYMN 


Words by Mary S. Edgar, Music by Jack Pearsa, 
F Ffdtm Qm7 C 7 


THE SENSE OF WONDER 

Near my cabin, two small campers had obviously discovered 
something by the path to the lake. It was an unusual sight to see 
these ever-active nine-year-olds so motionless. I watched for a 
while from the window, then, out of curiosity, joined them. They 
were breathlessly watching a moth which had emerged from a 
drab grey chrysalis. Slowly the exquisite pale-green wings of a 
luna moth were unfolding and the delicate mauve spots were 
being revealed on its shining fragile wings. There was only hushed 
silence. A whistle sounded from the wharf for swimming, the 
juniors’ most popular activity of the day, but neither of them paid 
the slightest attention. They were completely enthralled, for a 
miracle was happening before their wondering eyes. 

Indeed, miracles do happen, and those who have the good 
fortune to spend much time in the out-of-doors will often 
discover in the ever-changing beauty of the days and nights some 
amazing thing which holds them spellbound. This sense of 
wonder is perhaps our most precious heritage. 


Meditation Out of Doors 

It is good for tired nerves 
To sit quietly 

In a place of refreshing beauty. 

It is healing for the soul 

To let the eyes wander 

Unhurriedly over a broadloom of grass. 

It is an inspiration for the spirit 
To look at blue sky 
Through a canopy of pine trees. 

»1879 Jack Peareo Limited II ‘ S P e3Ce f ° r the whole bein 8 

To rest silently 

-j-1- I | And wait for an unspoken word. 


God of the night, the stars, the skies, Watch o'er the fires of 


Cm Gm7 


F Gm7 



day. Be with us as the sun — set dies and col — ours fade a - 
: D 7 Gm7 F Gm7 F 


way. May In* cense from our camp-fires bear Our gra — tl — tude to 



You In prayer. 


Light 


The moonlight makes a shining path 
As wide as the widest sea, 

Yet the tiniest ship is in focus 
On the ocean’s immensity. 

Direct and clear as a beacon 

The light comes straight and free. 

How can one doubt the sufficiency 
Of God’s abounding light, 

Streaming forth to all mankind, 

In a radiance infinite; 

Yet coming direct to each separate craft, 
To guide its course aright. 


Most days begin with songs of birds 
And meadows bright with dew, 

With breezes blowing fresh and clean 
Beneath a sky of blue. 

Our meals combined with songs and fun 
Bring comradeship for everyone. 

We thank you for eventful days 
That challenge us to try 
To play the game with sportsmanship 
And set our standards high. 

Now as the daylight fades away 
We thank you fora happy day. 


19 




IFmci /EBIIV the oconto dining 

I" InEiir EUl HALL FIRE 


“Lisa and Bruce! The Dining Hall is 
burning! I’m not kidding!” Slam went the 
door. 

That was our wake up call three 
mornings before our campers arrived. We 
ran out the door, looked up, and saw the 
most enormous roaring, ball of fire 
imaginable. Obviously the fire was out of 
control and far too hot to approach. All 
we could do was try to contain it. It was 
about 5:45 a.m. perfectly still, and 
drizzling rain — the weather was on our 
side! Thankfully, the building had fields 
on two sides, the third had a road behind 
it and then a utility building (it didn’t 
burn), the fourth side had a small bush — 
therefore our main worry. Our staff, at 
camp for Pre-Camp training, were 
fantastic despite a flu bug that was 
making its rounds. All fire fighting 
equipment in camp was gathered and 
organized in a couple of minutes. An 
assembly line for water buckets from the 
lake up a long hill to the Dining Hall was 
formed — about 200 yards long. 
Buildings close by were sprayed from 
hand pumps, and the bush area was 
similarly covered. The volunteer fire 
department of both Oso and 
Hichinbrooke Townships were at camp 
within a short 12 minutes. Their efforts 
and concern were tremendous. However, 
the Dining Hall was completely destroyed. 
No other buildings, or activity sites were 
lost. The Hall prepared and fed meals for 
over 300. It was beautiful, the nicest 
building in camp, 20 years old. Gone. 
Absolutely nothing left but three stone 
fireplaces. 

Once the fire was under control the 
enormity started to hit!: 

— three hundred bodies to feed in 3 
days; no food and no place to feed 
them 

— a lot of camp memorabilia — gone 

— all equipment and food gone 

I can remember saying to myself several 
times — you’re lucky no one was hurt! 
So, what do we do now? 

First, we needed breakfast for eighty, 
chilly and challenged staff. We tele¬ 
phoned the local grocery store and told 
them our plight. They were very helpful 
even at 7:00 a.m. We sent up our truck 
with two people and loaded it up with 
bread, P.B. and J., fresh oranges, coffee 
and hot chocolate. We didn’t have a 
toaster, but fortunately some of our staff 
had electric kettles. Our dishes, of course, 
were gone, but enough were scrounged up 
in the Trip Room and from personal staff 
dishes intended for picnics and canoe 
trips. 

We telephoned people that we knew 
that might have been able to help. We 
certainly used many of our connections! 


At a time like this you need all the help 
you can get, friends stand up with flags 
willing to do anything possible. We 
needed to feed 300 people in three days, 
we needed some special resources. 

The Army was a big help to us, they 
were able to supply stoves, tables and 
chairs for three hundred. They did what¬ 
ever they could after they were sure that 
all civilian resources were tapped. We 
therefore had to pay a nominal fee. 

We also telephoned A.T.C.O. which is 
a company that supplies portable kitchen 
and dining facilities for various groups 
such as lumber and mining camps. We 
were able to get a six tractor trailer unit, 
three for kitchen and three for dining. 
These were put up side by side and the 
walls were removed in-between, it then 
looked like one large room. There were 
certainly problems getting the units down 
and set up — most problems being trans¬ 
portation due to the long weekend and 
unionized days of travel. The re-hook- 
up at our end was a wee nightmare but it 
all worked out in the end. We also used 
one of our smaller lodges, nearby, to 
alleviate some of the crowding. Before the 
hook up was complete (for two weeks) we 
ate in two shifts per meal, the cooks using 
three domestic stoves and three refriger¬ 
ators. Food was brought into camp to be 
cooked and served immediately as there 
was little storage space. Water was con¬ 
nected from a nearby shower house. 
Serving was completely paper, foam or 
plastic all summer — WOW — did we 
have a lot of garbage but unfortunately, 
we had no choice. We found it important 
to keep your staff posted on what is going 
on, they want and need to know. They 
also want to help out. We are grateful that 
all aspects of our insurance policy are up 
to date, this includes the “extra expense” 
clause. This is for such un-forseen 
expenses like paper and plastic service for 
the Summer, refrigerators and other 
equipment that must be bought for short 
term use that will never be used again, and 
other expenses too countless to mention. 


The Health Inspector was in frequently. 
They must ensure that everything is 
sanitary and that the food is good. Most 
of their policies we found normal and 
reasonable. Some days we were sure that 
our Inspectors’ superior had just said 
“this camp has just had a major tragedy, 
no one was hurt, but you make sure that 
nothing else happens!” and consequently, 
he seemed to be monitoring every detail 
under the sun! 

We were very fortunate to have lots of 
support from family and friends. Lisa’s 
parents, June and Cliff Labbett were 
sleeping soundly in Toronto that Tuesday 
morning at 6:30 a.m., needless-to-say 
their feet didn’t touch the ground for 
weeks after the fire. They were busy 
running here and there, buying pots, 
pans, cutlery, and dishes. They also made 
hundreds of phone calls to make the 
necessary emergency arrangements. Add 
to that the T-shirts they bought for all of 
the staff members. The shirts carried the 
slogan, “Together We’re Hot”. What a 
morale booster! We had support and 
practical help from many friends and 
family members to whom we will always 
be grateful. 

Hopefully, this information can prove 
helpful to someone one day. Although we 
wouldn’t wish a fire on anyone, if you 
ever do face the tragedy of a camp fire, 
then please contact us, we will do 
anything possible to help. 

Bruce and Lisa Wilson 

Summer (613) 375-6678 

Winter (416) 425-9796 

Quand un cas urgent frappe, c’est 
le plus souvent sans alerte. Le feu est 
particulierement effrayant & cause de 
sa menace au propriety et a la vie 
humaine. Cet article ecrit par Bruce et 
Lisa Wilson et la lettre d’un de leurs 
employes qui le suit nous donnent 
des pensees et des emotions 
provoquees par un feu & Camp 
Oconto juin dernier. II explique aussi 
des procedures quand il y a une crise. 



20 





“THE WHOLE DINING HALL WAS 
FNGULFED in fire 

AN oS,VtO STAFF MEMBER’S ACCOUNT 


June 24, 1986 


rtor Mom am! Dad * ** of „ min dfor dm m aoupla of daps - “” 

Actually I have jotted a few 4»efcfeifl y *„'< * trMal „ my t hat over half of my 

'longer the*Zip’s biggest mutual problem. M/ g<MIg/ „ g in rte *W»- f^Hf^WUhin Sutes I 

This morning I awoke in my ™ a ‘™™ r ’JZ g hto realize that I had 20 ^^^cMpZtion up on the hill), 
ing that I had heard it, sumngm y charging through our section screaming at ( P Relief exclaiming — I 

confusion. It is the feeling wnfe ^ how I feel but nothingsthrough my mindfor it to beat rest. I 1 

the dining hall are ex P ecte f i t ° hall, and the foundation of the y0 u"l see I’m bound to drop a tear on the I 

places -3-in this was real - ^ZllolghmyZ T-1 swear I’m not trying to outdo 

know you think of me asajoKermux ^ ^ tQM QT mood through my wo 

likezero time! / was among ■ my ha nd. Automatically ^s/artedfa . (h bucketS six times with two 

—SitT a . MonT y.,don,^UdSsedmm,>m.d^^ 

wssss^s2f;rrirr::^ 



21 


together in an emotionless damp an „y.h e t( were in camp to speak. We 1 

mm 

T.O. f/ik morning * W / i 

arrangements. Later „u 0 * an d fruit and hot soup. We I 

Hi again _ u is now after dinner. Bmce SHa^h^tZ 

i wsmmsmk 

I aasM —■»«-—■■■»■— -—— 

I rSSsSs^^Sssa'JrSSS 


SSStSS^."*-"' 6 " 

—ssBSSSSSS 2 '"""” 

iPe’// c/iaf wore on Saturday! 

Don’t miss me too much! 

Love, 

‘•Allison” 


Mm m • ** 

“^TZ ZZien o/ M «** " * **. __-- 



BFKbism 4 


Camp Cheboygan, located on the south shore of Skeleton Lake 
in Muskoka, enjoyed a great old “lodge” in 1936. They lost the 
lodge in an all consuming fire in the evening of August 25, 1937. 
Pictures are courtesy of Dr. H. S. Hamilton, Surrey, B.C. 


Camp Cheboygan, que se trouve a la rive de sud de 
Skeleton Lake a Muskoka, a joui d’une grande et vieille en 
1936. Ms ont perdu la loge dans un feu tout-ecompassant 
pendant le soir du 25 e aout, 1937. Les photos avec la 
permission de Dr. H. S. Hamilton, Surrey, C.B. 


r am P 

iebgygaN 








This picture page is from a brochure for Camp Cheboygan 
printed in the mid 30’s — Great canoes! Great Shotput! Great 
bathing suits! 

The Archives Committee is trying to track down some more 
information about Camp Cheboygan and its Director Blyth 
Thomas. If you have any information which might prove useful 
then please contact the O.C.A. office (address on back cover). 


Cette page de photos vient d’une brochure pour Camp 
Cheboygan imprimee pendant les annees trente — Quels 
maillots! Quels canots! Quel lancer du poids! 

Le comite des archives cherche plus d’informations sur 
Camp Cheboygan et son directeur, Blyth Thomas. Si vous 
avez des informations qui pouvaient etre utiles, s’il-vous 
plait mettez-vous en rapport avec le bureau de I’A.C.O. 
(I’adresse se trouve tout aufond de revue). 


23 









GOING UP THE WALL 

En montant la mur 


L’usage d’une mur pour la montee comme activite 
challengeant et pour la pratique des d’exterites a profite au 
programme de Pioneer Ranch en Alberte. Bernie Woods, 
directeur des Camps Pioneer Ranch decrit le programme. 

For many years our camp had offered climbing trips to our 
more senior campers. These four to seven day trips were popular 
and offered the challenge and adventure of an alpine ascent in the 
Canadian Rockies. These programs were limited however by the 
distances involved, the training needed for campers, and the 
strength factor needed to participate in an alpine ascent. 
“Wouldn’t it be great” we thought, “if there was some way to 
involve more campers in the challenge of climbing?” 

All we needed was a site close to camp where it would be 
possible to satisfy a few conditions: 

1. Stable rock, with good access for campers to move from the 
top of the pitch to the bottom safely without being roped up. 

2. A pitch with routes for several ability levels and short 
enough to top rope all routes. 

3. A lower angle face on which to teach rappelling and an 
overhang on which to practise free rappells and prussicking. 

The problem was, the closest site was an hour away and only 
satisfied half the conditions. What we needed was a mountain 
right at camp if we were going to make this program option work. 
The solution had just become obvious. Some of us had worked 
with ways of creating simulated rock faces by bolting pieces of 
wood to an existing wall, (or chiseling holds in the natural rock 
facing on some buildings — a process not popular with the 
owners), or prefabricating laminated plywood panels and cutting 
holds into them, then fastening these to a wall. We had no such 
buildings at camp, but what if we built a freestanding 
structure...? 

The result was a three-sided tower, 35’ in height. Each face is 
16’ wide, enough room for two campers to be on the face at the 
same time. One face is vertical, and composed of 16 laminated 
plywood panels, which provide for a huge variety of routes for all 
skill levels. The second face is composed of rough sawn 3” x 10” 
boards and sits at a 75 degree angle so that it is easier to teach 
rappelling and mountain rescue techniques to campers. The third 
face is vertical and incorporates a 3’ overhang so that campers can 
gain experience in moving up and down over this type of obstacle 
and also practise prussicking. The foundation of the tower is 
several surplus telephone poles tied together with large timbers 
and then the whole structure stabilized with guy wires. Access to 
the top of the tower is provided by a ladder and platform system. 
At the top there are anchors for six ropes, two for each face. An 
added bonus is that an instructor on the top can quickly see what 
is happening on each face and offer assistance when necessary. 

We found that a coat of porch enamel with some sand mixed in 
provided for lots of protection and grip on the climbing faces, 

is* 


and that safety tread glued to the holds with contact cement was 
quite durable. The rough-sawn boards did not require any 
coating. 

The tower has proved to be a great asset and is very popular 
with all age groups. Best of all it has allowed us to offer the 
challenge of climbing to a wide variety of campers. Those 
campers going on a climbing trip are much better prepared for the 
adventure ahead. Trip leaders like the wall because it allows them 
to evaluate skill levels before the trip actually begins. Each year 
we discover new ways to use the wall to enhance the programs we 
offer at camp. 

You’ll have to excuse me now — it’s my turn to “go up the 
wall”! 

by Bernie Woods, 

Director of Pioneer Ranch Camps in Alberta. 

There is a network of ten Pioneer Camps across Canada, 
owned and operated by Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship, a 
non-profit, interdenominational organization. Pioneer features 
both summer and winter programs designed to challenge and 
develop the whole person. 

Pioneer Ranch Camps were established in Alberta in 1951. The 
three Alberta Camps include: Pioneer Lodge, near Sundre, on the 
Red Deer River; Pioneer Ranch, near Rocky Mountain House, in 
Crimson Lake Provincial Park; and Peace Country Pioneer 
operating from Grande Prairie. 

The history and major program emphasis is instruction in western 
equitation. They also have programs in lake and whitewater 
canoeing, climbing, windsurfing, and an extensive tripping 
program on the eastern slopes of the Canadian Rockies. 

SrY 


24 











Former C.C.A. Executive Director, Marjorie Booth of Mooredale Day 
Camp is boarding the '‘rickshaw’' while Jim Jensen (left) and Dave 
Newnham (right) of Y.M.C.A. Camp Wanakita serenade supporters on 
their way to the C.C.A. benefit Chinese Dinner. 


Joe Kronick (left), O.C.A. board Secretary and his son Adam of Camp 
White Pine conduct a session entitled "Second Generation Camp 
Directors”. Look who’s doing the talking ... Dad! 


From left to right: O.C.A. Vice-President Liz Greenway of Y.W.C.A. 
Camp Tapawingo, Conference Keynote Speaker Mickey Johnstone of 
Alberta who is an O.C.A. Life Member, Kirsty Griffiths of the Ontario 
Private Campgrounds Association, O.C.A. Conference Chair, Diane 
Blair of Camp Gay Venture share breakfast conversation. 


C.C.A. /A.C.C. Vice-President (Atlantic Region), Ian Fowler of 
Moncton, N.B. outlines to C.C.A. /A.C.C. President, Janet Adamson of 
Camp Gay Venture exactly how C.C.A. /A.C.C. can accomplish its 1987 
goals. 


From left to right: Jane McCutcheon, Senior Editor of Canadian 
Camping Magazine, O.C.A. President, Fred Okada of Bolton Camp, 
Gloria Okada, Fred’s wife, and O.C.A. Public Relations Chairman, 
Michael Southam of Camp Otterdale agree that this is really some 
conference. 


The C.C.A. bookstore is a busy place as David Sands of Illahee North - 
woods Camp makes a purchase from Judy MacGowan of Mooredale Day 
Camp. C.C.A. Publications Chairman, Nancy Barker (right) of the 
Rocky Mountain Y.M.C.A. Camp (Alta.) explains to David that she has 
a book to help him in his capacity as C.C.A. Liaison to the 1987 
International Camping Congress. 


Lisa Wilson and Camp Oconto staff lead singing at the closing banquet. 
This is not a mass holdup, just an action song! 


O.C.A. 

CONFERENCE 


ON THE PARK 
TORONTO 

January 15, 16, 17, 1987 


25 










BUBBY NASH AWARD 

For Creative Writing 
To Honour Anne Nashman 
of Camp Wahanowin 

CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE and Camp Wahanowin welcome articles of creative writing from campers or staff 
members of Canadian camps. This annual writing contest carries with it $200.00 in prizes and the winning articles will be published 
in future editions of CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE. 


TOPIC: 


“WHAT CAMPING DOES FOR ME” 


ELIGIBLE WRITERS: Campers and/or staff from Canadian Camps. 

Articles may be written in French or English. 

LENGTH: Not less than 800 or more than 1000 words. 

DEADLINE FOR COMPLETION 
OF ARTICLE: _ May 31, 1987 

PRIZES: 1st — $100.00 

Runners-Up — Two at $50.00 each 

SEND ARTICLES TO: CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION, 

1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, 

Toronto, Ontario 
M3M 3Z1 



Anne Nashman 


PLEASE ENCOURAGE CAMPERS AND STAFF IN YOUR CAMP TO PARTICIPATE 


DEADLINE EXTENDED! 


PRIX BUBBY NASH 

Pour I’ecriture creative 
en Phonneur d’Anne Nashman 
du Camp Wahanowin 

La revue Canadian Camping et le Camp Wahanowin ont besoin d’articles en ecriture creative de campeurs ou de 
personnel de camps canadiens. 

Ce concours annuel en ecriture creative inclus $200.00 en prix et les textes choisis seront publies dans les editions 
k venir de la revue Canadian Camping. 


SUJET: Ce que le Camping m’apporte. 

OUVERT: & tous les campeurs et personnel de Camps Canadiens 

LONGUEUR: pas moins de 800 mots pas plus de 1000 mots 
DATE LIMITE: 31 Mai 1987 

PRIX: ier pr ix: $100.00 

et 2 prix de $50.00 chacun 

ENVOYEZ VOS ARTICLES A: 

CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, 

Toronto, Ontario 
M3M 3Z1 



ti 


Anne Nashman 


S.V.P. encourez vos campeurs et votre personnel a participer. 


26 





Un etalage de programmes cabin afternoon program 


Si vous £tes employe & un camp ou si vous 6tes engage 
dans Timporte quelle manidre dans la jeunesse, vous 
reconnaissez le besoin d’une reserve presque in&puisable 
d’idees de programmation. On a le probl&me que comme le 
grandeur, l’£ge, le sexe, le temps permis, la situation et 
TSquipement changent, il y a aussi un changement d’id§e 
opportune. En-dessous, il y a de differentes situations ou 
de groupes avec un exemple de chacun. Faites une contre- 
fepreuve avec votre catalogue de ressources et utilisez-les 
quand vous avez I’opportunite. 

If you are on staff at a camp or involved in any way with youth 
then you recognize the need for a virtually endless supply of 
program ideas. The problem is that as size, age, sex, time frame, 
physical set up and equipment change then so, too, changes the 
particular program idea which is appropriate. Below are listed a 
number of different types of situations or groups along with an 
example of each. Cross check them against your personal 
catalogue of resources and use them when you can*. 

ENROUTE AND ARRIVAL ACTIVITY 

FAMOUS BUNKS 

Group: A cabin unit 

Equipment: Name Tags in Pairs (see below) 

As each person enters the room, he has a name tag pinned to his 
back. 

The object of the game is for each person to learn his identity 
and find his bunk. Each player is allowed to ask one “yes” or 
“no” question of any other player. At the same time, the two 
people introduce themselves (their real names!) and shake hands. 

Once a person has learned his identity, he tries to find his 
partner e.g. if he is Romeo, he looks for Juliet, which is pinned to 
a bunk in the cabin. 

The name on the name tag will be one half of a famous pair: 
eg. Antony and Cleopatra 
Abbott and Costello 
Bonnie and Clyde 


CABIN GAME 


STOMP 


This active game is not as brutal as its name suggests pro¬ 
vided it is played in stocking feet. 

The starting formation is a circle with all participants facing 
one another. The object is to eliminate other participants by 
landing on a portion of their foot with a portion of your own 
(not the heel). 

Participants are numbered. Number one has the first chance to 
take a stomp. He may jump and try to land on the foot of any 
neighbour. If he is successful then the stompee is out of that 
round. If he is unsuccessful then it is the turn of number two. 
Number one remains in the game. 

Other people may not jump out of the way until the stomper 
has jumped but must jump at the same time. This may be used to 
advantage. If the stomper pretends to jump but does not in fact 
leave the ground, then all those who actually jump are eliminated. 
A stomper’s turn is not over until he has made an actual jump. 

It will end with a head to head (or foot to foot) competition 
amidst much cheering and the winner’s only prize is safe feet and 
the opportunity to begin the next round. 


DROP ME A LINE 

This game can be a semi-active exploration hike in the woods 
or an exciting chase. One team has a head start and carries with it 
a handfull of 3 inch strings or brightly coloured yam. As they 
head off on their cross-country run they leave a trail of strings; 
each piece within view of the last. 

The second team enters the chase shortly after, collecting the 
strings as they go and announcing their position with loud calls. 

The first team continues until they run out of strings, return to 
the start, or are caught. 

OUTTRIP & OUTDOOR FUN 

TRICKY TREE TRAIL 

The counsellor needs some black thread for this game. He must 
go out beforehand and prepare some Tricky Trees. He might tie a 
maple leaf to the branch of a birch, a white pine sprig to a cedar, a 
balsam shoot to a hemlock. 

The campers hiking the trail should spot and remember the 
location of all the tricky trees. When they are finished the trail, 
they can announce how many ‘tricks’ they saw. 

Respotting the tricks and identifying the two types of trees will 
help with nature skills as well as providing lots of fun. 

BRAIN TEASER 

PEACHES, PEACHES 

“Peaches, peaches, very fine peaches, 

Very best peaches in town” 

This simple poem has confounded more people than any other 
we know. It is a must every time peaches are served at a mealtime 
and a common one many times when they’re not. 

Listeners are encouraged to “Repeat after me” and, clearing 
your throat, you recite the poem. 

At first, the audience will struggle with the structure of the lines 
or the position of your body, but as they master these they will 
still face the frustration of hearing from the leader, when they 
finish, “That was very close, but it wasn’t quite right”. 

The counsellor repeats it once more and clearing his throat he 
recites the poem. 

As a few listeners catch on, the fun and real confusion for 
others begins. A great way to end this stunt is to have all those 
who have learned the trick to come forward and recite the poem. 
They all clear their throats together (quite noticeably) and 
repeat: 

“Peaches, peaches, very fine peaches, 

Very best peaches in town” 

TABLE OR CIRCLE ACTIVITY 

WINK 

Another detective game for the amateur sleuth at the table, in a 
circle or in all-camp. 

One person is selected by some secret method to be a murderer. 
The counsellor may pick him, or he may draw a card, select a 
short stick, or pick the black marble from a bag. 

Now the fun begins. The murderer’s lethal weapon is his wink. 
The victim dies (dramatically please) five seconds after seeing the 
wink. 

Anyone spotting the crime may point the finger of accusation. 
If incorrect, they too, die but if they are correct another round 
begins. 


27 






CANADA CELEBRATES 
100 YEARS OF WILDLIFE 
CONSERVATION IN 1987 


SOME THOUGHTS FOR THE DAY 


RAINY DAY OR QUIET TIME ACTIVITY 


BIG BALL OF STRING 


If you scavenge and save every bit of string that comes along, 
you can accumulate a big ball, then pull it out at special times — 
rainy days, quiet times, etc. 

With some imagination, you can completely automate your 
cabin or tent. Set the amateur engineers to work to see if they can 
turn on the light or the tap, fetch a book, open and close 
windows, swat flies and send messages all from the comfort of 
their own bunks. 

Is it possible to use string to rig up an alarm clock for the 
morning or a booby trap to warn of prowlers? — Of course it is 
possible! Would we hand you a line? 


LARGE GROUP ACTIVITY 


MYSTERY TRAILS AND HUNTS 


“A journey of 1,000 (nautical) miles begins with the first step!” 
Get away ... to sea!” 


We owe this centennary to Sir John A. MacDonald who, on 
June 8, 1887, established the first Migratory Bird Sanctuary in the 
Western Hemisphere at Last Mountain Lake, south of 
Saskatoon. Twenty-four years later, on February 13, 1911, the 
first bird reserve in Alberta was set aside at Ministik Lake (south 
east of Edmonton). 

The Hon. Don Sparrow, Minister of Forestry, Lands, and 
Wildlife, has recognized the importance of these events and has 
endorsed the designation of 1987 as a special year for Wildlife 
Conservation for Alberta. 

We earnestly hope that your organization will become involved 
by helping us celebrate Wildlife ‘87. You may consider awarding 
recognition to members in your group who have made or are 
making a contribution to wildlife conservation. Or you may want 
to undertake a project to display to the public your involvement 
with wildlife. We have, for your perusal, enclosed a list of other 
possible activities. These and those suggested by your executive 
may stimulate someone in your group to implement one or more 
of these ideas. It is the spirit of cooperation that will ensure 
Wildlife ‘87 is a success. 


WHEN A CHILD ASKS DIFFICULT QUESTIONS, IN¬ 
VENTION IS THE NECESSITY OF MOTHER. 

Maugham S. Wright 


THE ROAD TO SUCCESS IS ALWAYS UNDER CON¬ 
STRUCTION. 

Hubert Dorfensplat 


TO TRAVEL HOPEFULLY IS A BETTER THING THAN 
TO ARRIVE. 

Robert Louis Stevenson 


THE FAULTS OF OTHERS ARE LIKE HEADLIGHTS OF 
AN AUTOMOBILE. THEY ONLY SEEM MORE GLARING 
THAN OUR OWN. 

Carson Highbeam 


WX CAN MAKX A DIFFXRXNCX! XVXR FXXL WX ARX 
NOT IMPORTANT? THAT WX’RX JUST ANOTHXR KXY 
ON LIFX’S TYPXWRITXR? WXLL, JUST SXX WHAT 
HAPPXNS WHXN ONX KXY IS MISSING. SUBSTITUTXS 
CAN BX MADX BUT THX RXSULTS ARX NXVXR THX 
SAMX. 

X Mark Suspott 


HE WHO CUTS HIS OWN WOOD IS WARMED TWICE. 

Perce Pyre 


WHEN WE PUT OURSELVES IN THE OTHER PERSON’S 
PLACE, WE’RE LESS LIKELY TO WANT TO PUT HIM IN 
HIS PLACE. 

U. Ken Countonit 


Each camper unit seeks information at predetermined locations 
to solve a mystery, gain points, or acquire rewards. 

The advantage of this type of event is that counsellors and their 
cabins can stay together and participate as a group at their own 
pace. 


e.g. 

Detective — Each station is staffed by a mysterious character 
who can reveal a clue to the mystery at hand. Clues are 
assembled and finally detectives file a warrant. 

Comic Book Hunt — Staff at stations show a single clue to 
their comic book identity, (eg. freckles — Archie, rifle — 
Elmer Fudd). They can answer three questions with either Yes 
or No. Camper unit must then guess their identity. How many 
characters can you identify? 

Where’s Our Snack — Treasure hunts following rhyming 
clues to the next station and the next station and finally to 
snack! 


Stalk The Animals — This is one of many ideas that could be 
used to “Hunt the Staff*’. Staff members, in costumes de¬ 
signed to make them look like animals (e.g. lion, monkey, 
chipmunk, bear, tortoise, rabbit), find hiding places in a 
habitat suitable for their species of animal. Campers find the 
staff and bring them back to an enclosed pen where they 
might perform some animal trick or feat. 

These program descriptions are taken from Lead On . . . 

Counsellor, a Camp Tawingo Publication by Jack Pearse, John 

Jorgenson, Jane McCutcheon and Pat Pearse. 


Should you have questions as to how your group may partici¬ 
pate, please contact: Cam Finlay 
Chairman 

Alberta Wildlife Conservation Centennial 
P.O. Box 8644, Station L 
Edmonton, Alberta T6C 4J4 

Days: 428-3033 

Evenings & Weekends: 467-7649 


28 








Glen Bernard Camp 


CANADIAN LEADERSHIP AT THE INTER¬ 
NATIONAL CONGRESS IN WASHINGTON 
(AS OF THE MOST RECENT PRINTED PROGRAM) 

TUESDAY, MARCH 3 

S100G CONVENTION SPECIAL EVENT. “GETTING 
TOGETHER: ORGANIZATIONALLY AND INTER¬ 
NATIONALLY,” Rod Napier, PhD., AEE, Co-Director, The 
Temagami Experience, Canada. 

P122G “CAMP SONGS FROM HERE AND AROUND THE 
WORLD.” Jack Pearse, Jane McCutcheon, Jim Knowlton, Tom 
Knowlton and Mark Baldwin, Camp Tawingo, Huntsville, 
Ontario. 

R132G “INTERNSHIPS: MUTUALLY BENEFICIAL,” Brent 
G. Dysart, Waterloo County Catholic School Board, Waterloo, 
Ontario. 

P142G “GOT A MINUTE: BACKPOCKET PROGRAM 
IDEAS,” John Jorgenson, Camp Tawingo, Huntsville, Ontario. 

P163G “SIMPLE TECHNIQUES FOR ART OUTDOORS; 
ANYONE CAN DRAW,” Ralph Ingleton, Forest Valley 
Outdoor Education Centre, Downsview, Ontario. 

P170G “SUPERVISING INSTRUCTORS,” Rod Napier, AEE, 
Co-Director, The Temagami Experience, Canada. 


S178G “LONG RANGE SITE PLANNING AND DEVELOP¬ 
MENT,” Rob Heming, Ontario Camp Leadership Centre. 
W180G “NORMALIZING SPECIAL NEEDS PROGRAMS,” 
David Sands, Illahee Northwoods Camp, Toronto, Ontario. 

P184G “SIMPLE TECHNIQUES FOR ART OUTDOORS: 
NATURE CRAFTS,” Ralph Ingleton, Forest Valley Outdoor 
Education Centre, Downsview, Ontario. 

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 4 

P223G “SCIENCE AND THE MIRACLE OF THE OUT-OF- 
DOORS,” Susan V. Bosak, Ontario. 

P241G “DEVELOPING ENVIRONMENTAL AND SERVICE 
ETHICS: AN INDONESIAN CASE STUDY,” Dr. Anthony 
Richards, Centre for Research on Youth, Dalhousie University, 
Nova Scotia. 

P257R “FAITH DEVELOPMENT AND ITS ROLE IN THE 
RELIGIOUS EDUCATION IN A CAMPING EXPERIENCE,” 
John Wilkinson, Ontario Theological Seminary, Toronto, 
Ontario. 

R270G “STAFF DEVELOPMENT,” Jocelyn Palm, Glen 
Bernard Camp, Willowdale, Ontario. 

R277G “PROS AND CONS OF A FOREIGN EXCHANGE 
PROGRAM,” Fred Okada, Family Service Association, Metro 
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario. 


29 






The callouses will go away, the memories of you and your shipmates 
lasts a lifetime! (Note the most distant head (eyes & head only) is Sir 
Edmund Hillary . . . June ‘86 on board Pathfinder. — You’re only 
limited by the size of your dreams! 


R386G “REFLECTIVE PRACTICE AS A METHOD OF IN- 
SERVICE STAFF DEVELOPMENT,” Robert H. Horwood, 
AEE, Queen’s University, Kingston, Ontario. 

P389E “LIFE SKILLS TRAINING FOR THE SINGLE 
PARENT FAMILY OR DISADVANTAGED,” Fred Okada, 
Family Services Association, Metro Toronto, Toronto, Ontario. 

R402G “YOUTH LEADERSHIP TRAINING WITH THE 
YOUTH OF TODAY,” Dorothy Walter, Ministry of Citizen¬ 
ship and Culture, Resource Centre, Toronto, Ontario. 

R459G “EMERGENCY PROCEDURES,” Marjorie Booth, 
Mooredale Day Camp, Toronto, Ontario. 

CLOSING BANQUET: MUSIC BY JACK PEARSE AND THE 
BOYS CAMP BAND. 


B278G “THE PRODUCT DELIVERY: PARADIGM FOR 
CAMPING SERVICES,” Shannon Etkin, Family Service 
Association, Metro Toronto, Toronto, Ontario. 

THURSDAY, MARCH 5 

W335S “NATIVE AND PIONEER PROGRAMS AT CAMP,” 
Jack Pearse, John Jorgenson, Jane McCutcheon, Tom 
Knowlton, Jim Knowlton, Camp Tawingo, Huntsville, Ontario. 

P348G “CAMPFIRES ARE MORE THAN SINGING — 
THEY ALSO INCLUDE GAMES, SKITS, STUNTS AND 
STORIES,” Jack Pearse, Jane McCutcheon, Tom Knowlton, 
Jim Knowlton, Camp Tawingo, Huntsville, Ontario. 

P378G “WILDERNESS ETHICS,” Ted Scrutten, AEE, Nova 
Scotia Department of Culture, Recreation and Fitness, Halifax, 
Nova Scotia. 


1 DR. J. HARRY EBBS 

FIRST PRESIDENT, SOCIETY 
OF CAMP DIRECTORS 


2 ADELE EBBS 

PRES, O.C.A. 

PRES, SOC. CAMP DIRS. 
CHAIR, CCA ARCHIVES CTE. 


3 JUNE LABBETT 

PRES, SOC. CAMP DIRS. 
CHAIR, OCA EDN CTE. 


4 MAY BROWN 

PRES. C.C.A. 
PRES. B.C.C.A 


5 CLIFF LABBETT 

PRES., V.P., TREAS — CCA 
PRES, TREAS — OCA 
PRES — SOC. CAMP DIRS. 


7 BARB GILCHRIST 

PRES — OCA 

BOARD — CCA 

CHAIR, OCA ARCHIVES CTE. 


NORTHERN ILLINOIS 
UNIVERSITY 

Department of Curriculum and Instruction 


ASSISTANTSHIPS IN OUTDOOR 
TEACHER EDUCATION 


Northern Illinois University 


More than a dozen graduate teaching assistantships are 
available at the Field Campus in Outdoor Teacher Education at 
Northern Illinois University for the 1987 - 88 school year. 

These assistantships involve outdoor teaching at the Lorado 
Taft Field Campus, Oregon, Illinois. Because the teaching is 
primarily with public school students and university juniors and 
seniors, priority is given to those applicants who have had several 
years of experience in the elementary or secondary public schools 
or outdoor schools. Applicants who have nature centre and/or 
camping experience will also be considered. 

The assistantships pay a stipend of S320 per month for nine 
months and include a waiver of tuition for three semesters. Room 
and board is included for the fall and spring semesters when 
groups are in residence. 

Applications and further information may be received by 
writing to Dr. Clifford E. Knapp, P.O. Box 299, Lorado Taft 
Field Campus, Oregon, IL 61061. (815) 732-2111. 

For a complete listing of twenty-four courses and degree 
opportunities offered in Outdoor Teacher Education, write to 
Dr. Knapp at the address above. 


6 


JOHN GILCHRIST 

V.P., TREAS O.C.A. 
PRES, SOC. CAMP DIRS. 


8 


LORNE BROWN 

PRES. B.C.C.A. 

1ST PRES BC OUTDOOR EDUCATORS 
CHAIR, CCA NATURE LORE CTE. 


30 


PHOTO FROM TORONTO BRIGANTINE INC. 








Look what we are looking for — for a new look in 
the CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE! 

Please send along the pick of your pix from the camping season. Toronto 
Brigantine Incorporated did and they have several pictures throughout this 
issue, including the one above. 



SEND PICTURES OF: 

SITES & FACILITIES 
CONFERENCES & WORKSHOPS 
MOOD & NATURE 
ACTIVITIES & PROGRAM 
CAMPERS & STAFF 


SEND PICTURES TO: 

CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
R.R. # 1 

HUNTSVILLE, ONTARIO 
POA 1K0 


We are ready to use black and white prints and good contrast colour 
prints, slides or negatives. 




Xaviera's 

snack 



Xaviera's 

smile 


Participaction 

MAKES 

D EHFECT PamapamonM. 


31 














POSTMASTER / MAIL CARRIER 

If undelivered after five days, please return copies to the editorial offices: 
CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
Canadian Camping Association 
1806 Avenue Rd., Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 


MAITRE DE POSTES/FACTEUR 

Si non - Iivr6 apr6s 5 jours S.V.P. retournez les copies aux bureaux des 6ditoriaux: 
CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
Canadian Camping Association 
1806 Avenue Rd., Suite 2, 

Toronto, Ont. M5M 3Z1 


British Columbia Camping Association 

1200 Hornby St. 

Vancouver, B.C. V6Z 2E2 
Phone: (604) 687*3333 

Alberta Camping Association 

c/o Y.M.C.A., 332 6th Ave. S.W., 

Calgary, Alta. T2P 0R5 
Phone: (403) 269-6156 

Saskatchewan Camping Association 

c/o Saskatoon Y.M.C.A. 

25 - 22 St. East 
Saskatoon, Sask. S7K 0C7 
Phone: (306) 652-7515 ext. SCA 


Manitoba Camping Association 

Admin. Centre for Recreation and Sport 
1700 Ellice Ave. 

Winnipeg, Man. R3H 0B1 
Phone: (204) 786-5641 

Ontario Camping Association 

1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, 

Toronto, Ont. M5M 3Z1 
Phone: (416) 781-0525 

Association des Camps du Quebec 

4545 Pierre de Coubertin 
Montreal, Quebec 
H1V3R2 
(514) 252-3113 


New Brunswick Camping Association 

P.O. Box 263 

Moncton, New Brunswick E1C 8K9 
506-853-3333 (Ian Fowler) 

Nova Scotia Camping Association 

Box 3243 S. 

Halifax, N.S. B3J 3H5 
Phone: (902) 424-4329 

Newfoundland and Labrador Camping 
Association 

Box 192 

St. John’s, Nfld. A1C5J2 



SUBSCRIPTION INFORMATION 

Canadian Camping Magazine is the official publication of the Canadian Camping Association. 
Editorial offices of the Magazine are located at R.R. # 1, Huntsville, Ontario, P0A 1K0. 

Membership in the C.C.A., as a result of membership in a provincial camping association, 
includes a subscription to the Magazine. Non member subscription is $8.00/year. Single issue price 
is $2.00. Make cheques payable to the Canadian Camping Association. Send subscriptions, sub¬ 
missions, or address changes to the editorial offices. 

Canadian Camping Magazine is published four times yearly. Deadlines for submissions arc 
October 1, December 1, February 15 and May 1. Material in Canadian Camping Magazine may 
not be reproduced in any form without the expressed written permission of the editor. Copyright 
1986 Canadian Camping Association. 


LES INFORMATIONS DE LA SOUSCRIPTION 


Canadian Camping Magazine est la publication officielle de ('Association des Camps 
du Canada. Les bureaux de la redaction se trouvent d R.R. # 1, Huntsville, Ontario P0A 
1K0. 


L’adh6sion d I'A.C.C., le r6sultat de I'adh&slon & une association provincials, com- 
prend une souscription A la revue. La souscription pour ceux qui ne sont pas les 
membres coute $8.00 par an. Une livraison coute $2.00. Faites les cheques & I'ordre de 
"Canadian Camping Association". Envoyez les souscriptions, les soumissions ou les 
changements d’adresse aux bureaux de la redaction. 

Canadian Camping Magazine est publi quatre fois par an. Les dates limites pour les 
soumissions sont le 1 er octobre, le 1 er d6cembre, le I5® me f6vrier et le 1 er mai. Les 
matfcraux daus "Canadian Camping Magazine" ne peuvent pas 6tre reproduit sans 
autorisation de l'6diteur. Copyright 1986 Canadian Camping Association. 


If you would like to receive a complete 
English translation of any article in 
Canadian Camping Magazine, send a 
stamped self addressed envelope with 
your request to Canadian Camping 
Magazine, R.R. #1, Huntsville, Ontario 
POA 1K0. 


Si vous voudriez recevoir une 
traduction complete en frangais d’un 
article dans Canadian Camping 
Magazine, envoyez une enveloppe 
timbrfee pour la r6ponse avec votre 
demande Canadian Camping 
Magazine, R.R. #1, Huntsville, 
Ontario POA 1K0. 



COVER 

The cover photo was taken at a Canadian Camping Association Con¬ 
ference at Banff, Alberta in February, 1963. The photo features 2 C.C.A. 
Presidents, 5 Provincial Presidents, 5 Presidents of the Society of Camp 
Directors. Can you identify these distinguished Camping leaders? There 
are some helpful hints on page 30. 

LA COUVERTURE 

La couverture met en vedette deux ACC/CCA Presidentes, 
cinq Presidentes Provinciaux, cinq Presidentes de la Societe des 
Directeurs des Camps qui ont assiste au Congr^s de ACC/CCA, 
Banff L’Alberta, F6vrier 1963. Voulez-vous quelqu’un identifier? 
Eh bien, avez recours a page 30. 


32 

















